Manfort Martinis: Double Entendre Martini
Wednesday, March 21, 2012
Double Entendre Martini
Ever since reading Neil Gaiman's, " Anansi Boys ", I've had the idea of a cocktail based on the drink in the primary character's dream. Especially after Molly suggested I should name one of my martinis after it. If you haven't read the book, here's the relevant excerpt:
"...He instructed the barman in the preparation of a cocktail he called the "Double Entendre" which, while it seemed to begin with a base of champagne, he explained was actually scientifically nonalcoholic. It contained a splash of this and a splash of that until it went a vivid purple color..."
Alongside this, I've also discovered the beauty of the
Aviation cocktail . Basically it's a gin martini flavored lightly with violet and maraschino. So, let's combine the two and re-imagine the Aviation — keeping the base flavors, but making it unique. Now the purple drink has the same base flavors, but carries other tastes along with it, as well as having a "splash of this and a splash of that." ;) Screw the nonalcoholic part, after all this is a martini. We need a unique and delicious purple cocktail that implies more than it's parts.
So, the following is my interpretation...
3 oz Square One Botanical Vodka
1 oz Creme De Cassis
1 oz Creme Yvette
1/2 oz Luxardo Maraschino Liqueur
Maraschino Cherry
Chill an up glass with crushed ice and water. Shake the liquid ingredients with
ice in a shaker until it sweats. Strain into the glass and garnish by dropping a maraschino cherry into the bottom.
Posted by
Slye Fox
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share to Pinterest
Labels:
aviation ,
double entendre ,
martini ,
Neil Gaiman ,
recipe
Newer Post
Older Post
Home
The Martinis
Gold Rush Martini Harvest Moon Martini Dead Presidents Martini Salted Caramel Martini Thyme Warp Martini Iguana Martini Cheeseburger Martini Décolletage Martini Mango Martini Blue Velvet Martini Tiger Eye Martini Molly Martini Aloha Martini El Diablo Martini Easter Martini Fluffernutter Martini Blue Diesel Martini Passionné Martini Drunk Monk Martini Skol Martini Preston Martini Saigon Kick Martini Honey Badger Martini Shamrock Martini Baked Potato Martini Schwarzwald Martini Lemon Meringue Martini Aztec Martini S'more Martini Oatmeal Cookie Martini Lotus Martini Peanut Butter & Jelly Martini Candy Cane Martini Christmas Tree Martini Wintergreen Martini Samurai Martini Jacked Up Monkey Martini Pumpkin Pie Martini Black Cat Martini Wendigo Martini Carrot Cake Martini Breakfast Martini Rose Martini Wobegon Martini Tropical Martini Powerpuff Martini Sweet Tea Martini Zen Martini Foxtail Martini Herbal Apple Martini Elvis Martini Key Lime Pie Martini Lady Slipper Martini Macaroon Martini Chocolate Orange Martini Bananas Foster Martini Gingersnap Martini Horseradish Beef Martini Bacon Martini Carrotini Blueberry Cheesecake Martini Pink Panty Martini Gunflint Martini Cherry Pie Martini Wedding Cake Martini Gingertini Strawberry Martini Moonage Daydream Martini Obamatini Pomegranate Martini Pear Martini Manfortini
© Manfort Martinis - all rights reserved. Simple template. Powered by
Blogger .