HPV Wart Treatment
Warts
0
items in cart. View Cart Checkout
Home
Product
Contact
HPV Wart Treatment
May 6, 2012
Warts
are a highly infectious disease caused by some type of
human papillomavirus
(HPV). Its spread through skin to skin contacts with an infected partner.
Warts
are the most easily recognized symptom of genital HPV infection, where types 6 and 11 are responsible for 90% of genital warts cases. While those infected by genital HPV are a small percentage, those infected can still transmit the virus.
Warts appear as bumps or growths. They can be flat or raised, single or many, small or large. They tend to be whitish or flesh colored. They are not always easy to see with the naked eye, and many times a person with genital warts doesn’t know that they’re there.
How do you treat warts?
There is no HPV treatment or cure for the virus. There is also no cure for warts. However, warts can be treated, either at home or your doctor’s office. Your doctor will do an examination, make a diagnosis, and then provide treatment, if necessary. A number of different treatments might be used depending on where the warts are located, how big they are, and how many there are. The doctor might put special medications on the warts.
For medication purposes, you can ask your doctor to prescribe either podofilox (Condylox) or imiquimod (Aldara). Both of these topical medications you can apply yourself at home. These medications should not be used if you are pregnant; it is not recommended that you use either podophyllin or podofilox as both can be absorbed by your skin and possibly cause birth defects in your child. Additionally, Aldara is designed to be used only on external warts.
The doctor can also prescribe electrodessication :
This technique uses an electric current to destroy the warts. It can be done in the office with local anesthesia. Of note, the resulting smoke plume may be infectious.
Laser treatment is also used for extensive or recurrent warts. It may require local, regional, or general anesthesia. The laser physically destroys the HPV-induced lesion. Disadvantages include high cost, increased healing time, scarring, and potentially infectious viral particles in the air caused by the laser plume.
Cryotherapy
treatment technique freezes the wart using liquid nitrogen or a “cryoprobe.” It is an excellent first-line treatment because response rates are high with few side effects.
Finally take home care precautions to prevent trauma in the area which can result in bleeding. Be careful to prevent transmission to a sexual partner which can result to genital warts. Also avoid touching them because they are highly infectious.
Recent Warts Articles:
Flat Warts
Plantar Warts
Tagged as:
cures ,
genital warts ,
HPV ,
HPV Wart Treatment ,
human papillomavirus ,
infections ,
skin infection ,
treat warts ,
treating warts ,
types of warts ,
warts
Previous post:
Freeze Wart
Next post:
Treating Plantar Warts
Order Now
Recent Posts
Treating Plantar Warts
HPV Wart Treatment
Freeze Wart
Plantar Warts
Flat Warts
Verruca
Treating Face Warts
Stubborn Warts
Cancerous Warts
Wart Removal 2012
Hereditary Warts
Face Warts
Over The Counter Treatment For Warts
Best Treatment For Warts
Are All Warts Contagious?
Remove Warts
Dangerous Warts
Best Treatment For Warts
Treatment For Warts
Removing Warts Naturally
Home Wart Removal Kit
Brown Warts
Treating Warts Naturally
Treating Warts At Home
Over The Counter Warts Treatment
Natural Treatment For Warts
What Is A Wart?
Treatments For Warts
Causes & Treatments Of Warts On The Face
How Do You Get Warts?
Warts Removal Home Kit
Safe Warts Treatment
Removing Warts Yourself
How To Treat Warts Yourself
Warts Home Removal Kit
Warts On Children
Wart Removal Tips
Treating Genital Warts
Warts On Toes
Warts On Fingers
Recent Posts
Treating Plantar Warts
HPV Wart Treatment
Freeze Wart
Plantar Warts
Flat Warts
Verruca
Treating Face Warts
Stubborn Warts
Pages
#61 (no title)
Articles
Contact
Do You Suffer From Warts?
Privacy Policy
Shipping Rates
Shopping Cart
Checkout
Terms & Conditions
Copyright © 2010–2011
Warts