Types of Wart
Home
Thought Leaders Series
Insights from Industry Series
MediKnowledge Series
Research White Papers
News Feed
News A-Z
Health A-Z
Drugs A-Z
Clinical & Diagnostics
Life Science & Laboratory
Consumer Products
About
Meet the Team
Terms and Conditions
Medical News 'Tweets'
LIFE SCIENCES & MEDICINE
October 31, 2015
Other search tools: Drugs | Health | News
Newsletters
Contact Us
Advertisement
Trending Stories Sexual activity causes physiological changes in the body that increase women's chances of getting pregnant Neuroscientists reveal the brain malady responsible for tinnitus, chronic pain Loyola gastroenterologist provides tips to IBS patients for healthy living Spatial grid pattern in brain region is altered in young adults with Alzheimer's risk Single drop of blood in the brain can activate autoimmune response akin to multiple sclerosis Study shows how dietary fatty acids affect development and progression of multiple sclerosis
Advertisement Latest News Penn Medicine's Gordon Baltuch performs 1,000th deep brain stimulation procedure New study lays out a case for recognizing nonsuicidal self-injury disorder New campaign raises awareness of City of Hope's life-saving mission and impact GUMC study examines patients' most preferred methods for receiving common medical test results Study assesses abdominoplasty complication rates, risk factors Underlying processes of working memory more complex than previously thought, say researchers
Types of Wart
By
Yolanda Smith , BPharm
There are various types of warts, also known as verruca, that affect humans. These include the common wart, flat wart, plantar wart, filiform wart, periungual wart, mosaic wart and genital wart. Each type has specific characteristics that distinguish them from the other types of wart, as classified below.
Common Wart (Verruca Vulgaris)
Common warts may develop individually or in a small cluster in an area of the body. They commonly affect the knuckles, fingers and knees, but may appear on any part of the body.
Characteristics of the common wart include:
Round or oval shaped
Raised from the skin
Firm, rough surface
Variable size, with diameter from 1mm to 1cm
Flat Wart (Verruca Plana)
Also known as a plane wart, this type of wart may occur in many areas of the body including the face, neck, hands, wrists and knees. In contrast to the common wart, they are usually small and flat in shape. They can occur on their own as a single wart of in a large crop of several hundred tiny warts together.
Characteristics of the flat wart include:
Smooth, round and flat shape
Yellow color
Small with a diameter of 2-4mm
Flat warts are particularly common in children, and also occur frequently on the legs of women as a result of shaving the legs.
Plantar Wart (Verruca Pedis)
Plantar warts tend to develop on the pressure points on the soles of the feet and can often cause pain when walking.
Characteristics of the plantar wart include:
White in color with several black dots in the center.
Flat shaped
Painful, particularly when bearing weight.
Filiform Wart (Verruca Filiformis)
Filiform warts usually present on the neck or face of individuals, particularly around the mouth eyes and nose. They resemble a long, thin thread and usually grow in length quickly.
Periungual Wart
This type of wart has a rough appearance and occurs under or around the fingernails or toenails. They can change the shape of the nail, which can also become very painful as a result of the wart.
Mosaic Wart
Mosaic warts commonly develop on the hand and feet, usually the palms and soles. A cluster of warts grows together to form a linear tile-like pattern, creating an appearance similar to that of a mosaic.
Genital Wart (Verruca Acuminata)
Genital warts refer to warts that develop in the groin, genital or anal areas. They can vary significantly in size and shape, with some appearing to be flat and white whilst others are bumpy and raised from the skin. In some cases, it is not possible to see the warts, despite the presence of the virus and warts.
References
http://www.nhs.uk/Conditions/Warts/Pages/Symptoms.aspx
https://www.aad.org/dermatology-a-to-z/diseases-and-treatments/u---w/warts/signs-symptoms
http://www.webmd.com/skin-problems-and-treatments/tc/warts-and-plantar-warts-topic-overview
Further Reading What are Warts? Wart Treatments
Last Updated: Jun 14, 2015
Read in
| English |
Español
|
Français
|
Deutsch
|
Português
|
Italiano
|
日本語
|
한국어
|
简体中文
|
繁體中文
|
Nederlands
|
Русский
|
Svenska
|
Polski
Comments
The opinions expressed here are the views of the writer and do not necessarily reflect the views and opinions of News-Medical.Net.
Cancel reply to comment
Post a new comment
Login
(Logout)
Post
News A to Z
Drugs A to Z
Health A to Z
Clinical & Diagnostics
Life Science & Laboratory
Consumer Products
News Archive
Medical News Tweets
Information
Subscribe
News-Medical.net - An AZoNetwork Site
Owned and Operated by AZoM.com Limited Copyright 2000-2015
This site complies with the
HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information:
verify here.
News-Medical.Net provides this medical information service in accordance
with these
terms and conditions .
Please note that medical information found
on this website is designed to support, not to replace the relationship
between patient and physician/doctor and the medical advice they may provide.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
Find out more here .