Wart Treatments
Home
Thought Leaders Series
Insights from Industry Series
MediKnowledge Series
Research White Papers
News Feed
News A-Z
Health A-Z
Drugs A-Z
Clinical & Diagnostics
Life Science & Laboratory
Consumer Products
About
Meet the Team
Terms and Conditions
Medical News 'Tweets'
LIFE SCIENCES & MEDICINE
October 31, 2015
Other search tools: Drugs | Health | News
Newsletters
Contact Us
Advertisement
Trending Stories Sexual activity causes physiological changes in the body that increase women's chances of getting pregnant Neuroscientists reveal the brain malady responsible for tinnitus, chronic pain Loyola gastroenterologist provides tips to IBS patients for healthy living Spatial grid pattern in brain region is altered in young adults with Alzheimer's risk Single drop of blood in the brain can activate autoimmune response akin to multiple sclerosis Study shows how dietary fatty acids affect development and progression of multiple sclerosis
Advertisement Latest News Penn Medicine's Gordon Baltuch performs 1,000th deep brain stimulation procedure New study lays out a case for recognizing nonsuicidal self-injury disorder New campaign raises awareness of City of Hope's life-saving mission and impact GUMC study examines patients' most preferred methods for receiving common medical test results Study assesses abdominoplasty complication rates, risk factors Underlying processes of working memory more complex than previously thought, say researchers
Wart Treatments
By
Dr Tomislav Meštrović , MD, PhD
Benign cutaneous infections caused by human papillomavirus (HPV) are one of the most quotidian and troublesome conditions seen in dermatological practice. This virus can cause a myriad of infectious lesions, and among them, cutaneous warts are most frequently observed. They can be further divided into common warts, plantar warts, flat warts and genital warts.
In healthy individuals, approximately 20% of warts resolve spontaneously within 3 months and 60% of them within 2 years; therefore, treatment is not always necessary. Nevertheless, most patients still decide to visit a physician due to the physical appearance, discomfort or interference with everyday activities.
Genital warts pose a significant treatment challenge for physicians. First and foremost, there is a reluctance of patients to consult a physician, and secondly, they have a propensity to relapse. Considering the latter, it must be noted that no therapeutic modality has been proven effective at achieving complete remission in every patient.
Topical treatments
Home remedies that are used in the treatment of common warts include the application of tea tree oil, garlic extract, hyperthermic therapy and duct tape method. Duct tape method involves covering the wart with duct tape, which is left in place for six days. The site should then be soaked, filed down with emery board and left uncovered overnight, which is a process that is repeated for a total of eight cycles.
Salicylic acid products are often favored by patients, as their use is convenient, cheap and without significant discomfort. Over-the-counter preparations contain less than 17% salicylic acid, whereas physician-prescribed preparations can contain as much as 70% salicylic acid. Warts should be soaked in water for 5-10 minutes before each application, and the dead skin should be debrided afterwards.
Imiquimod is a Toll-like receptor 7 analogue that induces production of inflammatory cytokines and is indicated for the treatment of genital warts in adults. However, off-label use of this immunomodulator for non-genital warts has increased in the last decade. This preparation is available as a cream in 2.5%, 3.75% and 5% strengths.
Vitamin A is widely recognized as safe and effective topical approach for flat, common and plantar warts (also known as verruca plana, verruca vulgaris and verruca plantaris, respectively). This vitamin and other retinoids regulate keratinization and may interfere with the replication of the human papillomavirus, which is tightly synchronized with the keratinization and differentiation of epithelial cells.
The keratotic material of the wart can be submitted to cryotherapy, usually using liquid nitrogen. It can be applied by a cotton-tipped applicator or cryogun, freezing the wart and a 1 to 2 mm margin for 10 to 30 seconds. The freeze should be repeated once after a thaw of 20 seconds. Certain topical chemotherapy agents such as podophyllin can be applied afterwards.
Other destructive methods of wart removal are most often used for resistant, multiple lesions, or recalcitrant warts in immunosuppressed patients. Amongst them are laser therapy (usually with a pulsed-dye laser or carbon dioxide laser), photodynamic therapy, and the application of acids (including bicholoracetic and trichloroacetic acid).
Systemic approaches
Oral zinc can be a useful therapeutic modality for warts, namely in children where painful physical treatment options have limited usefulness. A placebo-controlled clinical trial where oral zinc sulphate (10 mg/kg daily) was used to treat recalcitrant warts showed complete clearance was in 87% of the treatment group versus no clearance in the placebo group.
Oral immunomodulation with high-dose cimetidine (a type-2 histamine receptor antagonist) has been proposed, as it has propensity to enhance cell-mediated immune response. Daily doses of 30 to 40 mg/kg can be divided twice a day to four times a day for as long as 12 weeks, but thus far evidence of its efficacy has been anecdotal.
In conclusion, it is of utter most importance when choosing from the range of wart treatments to tailor the therapy according to the needs of the patient and healthcare provider. Prevention may soon become the best approach, as the development of new strain-specific HPV vaccines against venereal warts is progressing rapidly.
Sources
http://www.aafp.org/afp/2005/0815/p647.html
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC1764803/
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmedhealth/PMH0011182/
www.dpic.org/.../imiquimod-non-genital-cutaneous-warts
www.huidhuis.nl/sites/default/files/BMJ_cutaneous_viral_warts.pdf
Long MC. Warts (Verrucae). In: Bope ET, Kellerman RD, editors. Conn’s Current Therapy 2015: Expert Consult. Elsevier Health Sciences, 2014; pp. 317-320.
Further Reading What are Warts? Types of Wart
Last Updated: Oct 29, 2015
Read in
| English |
Español
|
Français
|
Deutsch
|
Português
|
Italiano
|
日本語
|
한국어
|
简体中文
|
繁體中文
|
Nederlands
|
Русский
|
Svenska
|
Polski
Comments
The opinions expressed here are the views of the writer and do not necessarily reflect the views and opinions of News-Medical.Net.
Cancel reply to comment
Post a new comment
Login
(Logout)
Post
News A to Z
Drugs A to Z
Health A to Z
Clinical & Diagnostics
Life Science & Laboratory
Consumer Products
News Archive
Medical News Tweets
Information
Subscribe
News-Medical.net - An AZoNetwork Site
Owned and Operated by AZoM.com Limited Copyright 2000-2015
This site complies with the
HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information:
verify here.
News-Medical.Net provides this medical information service in accordance
with these
terms and conditions .
Please note that medical information found
on this website is designed to support, not to replace the relationship
between patient and physician/doctor and the medical advice they may provide.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
Find out more here .