COCKtails!!!!!!!!!!: December 2006
skip to main
|
skip to sidebar
COCKtails!!!!!!!!!!
Thursday, December 28, 2006
COCKtails!!!!!!!!!
A cocktail is a style of mixed
drink . A cocktail usually contains one or more types of
liquor
and flavorings, usually one or more of a
liqueur ,
fruit , sauce,
honey ,
milk
or
cream ,
spices , etc. The cocktail became popular during
Prohibition
in the
United States
primarily to mask the taste of
bootlegged
alcohol . The
bartenders
at a
speakeasy
would mix it with other ingredients, both alcoholic and non-alcoholic. One of the oldest known cocktails, the
Cognac -based
Sazerac , dates from
1850s
New Orleans , as many as 70 years prior to the Prohibition era. Until the
1970s , cocktails were made predominantly with
gin ,
whiskey
or
rum , and less commonly
vodka . From the
1970s
on, the popularity of vodka increased dramatically. By the
1980s
it was the predominant base for mixed drinks. Many cocktails traditionally made with gin, such as the
gimlet , or the
martini , may now be served by default with vodka. Carbonated
beverages that are used nearly exclusively in cocktails include
soda water ,
tonic water
and
seltzer .
Liqueurs
are also common cocktail ingredients. History "Flaming"
cocktails contain a small amount of flammable
high-proof alcohol
which is ignited prior to consumption. The earliest known printed use of the word "cocktail," as originally determined by Dr. David Wondrich in October 2005, was from "The Farmer's Cabinet", April 28, 1803, p [2]: "11. Drank a glass of cocktail--excellent for the head ... Call'd at the Doct's. found Burnham--he looked very wise--drank another glass of cocktail." The second earliest and officially recognised known printed use of the word "cocktail" (and the most well-known) was in the
May 13 ,
1806
edition of the Balance and Columbian Repository, a publication in
Hudson, New York
, where the paper provided the following answer to what a cocktail was: "Cocktail is a stimulating liquor composed of spirits of any kind, sugar, water, and bitters--it is vulgarly called a bittered sling and is supposed to be an excellent electioneering potion, inasmuch as it renders the heart stout and bold, at the same time that it fuddles the head. It is said, also to be of great use to a
Democratic
candidate: because a person, having swallowed a glass of it, is ready to swallow anything else." The first publication of a
bartenders ' guide which included cocktail recipes was in
1862 : How to Mix Drinks; or, The Bon Vivant's Companion, by Professor Jerry Thomas. In addition to listings of recipes for Punches, Sours, Slings, Cobblers, Shrubs, Toddies, Flips, and a variety of other types of mixed drinks were 10 recipes for drinks referred to as "Cocktails". A key ingredient which differentiated "cocktails" from other drinks in this compendium was the use of
bitters
as an ingredient, although it is not to be seen in very many modern cocktail recipes. During Prohibition in the United States ( 1919 - 1933 ), when alcohol possession was illegal, cocktails were still consumed in establishments known as
speakeasies . The quality of the alcohol available far lower than was previously used, and bartenders generally put forth less effort in preparing the cocktails. Etymology Piña Colada with pieces of coconut There are several plausible theories as to the origin of the term "cocktail". Among them are: Colonial taverns kept their spirits (rum, brandy, whiskey, gin, applejack) in casks, and as the liquid in the casks lowered, the spirits would tend to lose both flavor and potency, so the tavern keeper would have an additional cask into which the tailings from the low casks could be combined and sold at a reduced price, the patrons requesting the "cock tailings" or the tailings from the stop cock of the cask. This was H.L. Mencken's belief. Cocktails were originally a morning beverage, and the cocktail was the name given as metaphor for the rooster (cocktail) heralding morning light of day. This was first posited in 2004 by Ted Haigh in "Vintage Spirits & Forgotten Cocktails", and can be distinguished from the theory " take two snips of the hair of the dog that bit you ", which refers to consuming a small bit of alcohol the morning after a " binge drinking
night" to curb the effects of the symptoms of the hangover, which symptoms are actually the result of a mini-withdrawal/down-regulation effect. Some say that it was customary to put a feather, presumably from a
cock 's tail, in the drink to serve both as decoration and to signal to
teetotalers
that the drink contained
alcohol . Another etymology is that the term is derived from coquetier, a French
egg-cup
which was used to serve the beverage in
New Orleans
in the early 19th century. [1] The beverage was named for a mixed breed horse, known as a "cock-tail" as the beverage, like the horse, was neither strictly spirit nor wine - it was a mixed breed. The word could also be a distortion of Latin [aqua] decocta, meaning "distilled water". Non-alcoholic cocktails are referred to as being "Virgin Cocktails", free from the "sin" of alcohol consumption. They are also known as "mocktails" in
India
and parts of the
United States .
List of cocktails A
cocktail
is a style of mixed
drink
made predominantly with a
distilled beverage , such as
vodka ,
gin ,
whiskey ,
rum , or
tequila , mixed with another drink other than water. Cocktails usually contain one or more types of
liqueur ,
fruit ,
sauce ,
honey ,
milk
or
cream ,
spices , or other flavorings. Cocktails, may vary in their ingredients from bartender to bartender, and from region to region. Two creations may share the same name, but taste very different from each other due to differences in how the drink is prepared. This article is organized by the primary type of alcohol (by volume) contained in the beverage. Expanded articles are cross-referenced. Cocktails without separate articles are listed below along with primary ingredients and notable facts. This article is not intended to be comprehensive list of all cocktails or every variation thereof, and cocktails without that minimal information are not included. Top 20 cocktails for the holiday season A
Long Island Iced Tea . The following cocktails were picked by the editors of
iVillage
as the top cocktails for the holidays. 7 & 7 Amaretto
Sour Bellini Bloody Mary Champagne
Cocktail Champagne
Punch Daiquiri Frozen Margarita Fuzzy Navel Harvey Wallbanger Hurricane Long Island Iced Tea Martini (Dry) Mimosa Rob Roy Sangría Screwdriver Tequila Sunrise Whiskey Sour White Russian Cocktails with
beer Beer
mixes are not technically cocktails since their primary ingredient is not a
distilled beverage . Most of the following drinks are more correctly classified as beer mixes than cocktails, since
beer
is a
fermented beverage
not a
distilled
one. BeeSting - dark beer (e.g.,
stout
or
porter ) and
orange juice . Black Velvet Boilermaker
or Jimmy & Guinney - 1
pint
of
pilsner
and 1
shot
of
Tennessee whiskey
(or
bourbon ). Broadway - popular in
Japan ,[ citation needed ] mixing beer and cola is known as a Broadway. Carbomb
(also known as Irish Carbomb or Belfast Carbomb) -
Guinness ,
Baileys Irish Cream
and
Irish whiskey . Caribbean Night - beer and 1 fl oz of
coffee - flavored liquor . Diesel - beer and
Coca-Cola . In the UK, Diesel is equal parts lager and cider, with a dash of blackcurrant concentrate. Some regions omit the blackcurrant from the recipe, but in most areas this would make the drink a Snakebite. Flaming Cheeky Tractor - half
pint
of beer,
Baileys Irish Cream ,
Smirnoff Ice ,
port ,
WKD Blue ,
sambuca . Cerveza preparada
- mixture of
Mexican beer
and either
tomato juice ,
Clamato , or
V8 . Chavela Depth Charge
- 1 shot of
Everclear
is lit on fire, immersed into a glass of beer, and quickly drunk. Dog's Bollocks - 7 fl oz melon vodka, 12 fl oz
lager
beer, 2
dashes
lime - flavored liquor . Dr. Pepper
- Alcoholic cocktail that contains no
Dr Pepper
soft drink. Flaming Dr. Pepper
- Alcoholic cocktail that contains no
Dr Pepper
soft drink. Hulk - ½ pint
lager beer
topped with
WKD Blue , which turns the lager bright green. Loaded Corona - Top off a bottle of
Corona beer
with a
shot
of
Bacardi
Limón; tastes similar to a traditional Corona with lime, but alcohol content is increased. McLester Bomb - A cocktail made with
Red Stripe
and a shot of Jamaican rum. Mexican Piss -
Mexican beer
mixed with
tequila . Michelada
- similar to a
Bloody Mary , substituting Mexican beer for the vodka. Ogre Juice
-
Sleeman
Cream ale
mixed with 2 fl oz of
whiskey . Unlike a
Boilermaker , the liquor and beer are mixed, resulting in a strong, brownish drink. Purple Nasty - beer,
cider , and
blackcurrant - cordial ; a variation on the
Snakebite . Raging Bull -
Corona ,
tequila , and
Red Bull , mixed in the beer bottle, then the top of the bottle is gently tapped with a glass to make the beer overflow out of the top. Red Eye - A
Bloody Mary
made with 3-4 fl oz of
Clamato
and a pint of
light beer . Skippy's - one part beer, one part vodka, and one part
lemonade . Snakebite
- beer and
cider . In the UK beer is never used to make snakebite. Lager and cider are the accepted mixture. Tom Bass -
Bass
and a shot of
Jägermeister . Tom O'Hawk or Tomahawk -
pint glass
with half a pint of
Guinness , add a double shot of vodka, and top up with
Smirnoff Ice . Immediately chop. Yorsh
- beer mixed with vodka. Cocktails with brandy or cognac
A
brandy snifter B & B The Blenheim Brandy Alexander Crunk Juice -
Hennessy
cognac and
Red Bull . Four Score French Connection - Cognac with
amaretto
or
Orange
flavored liquor . Incredible Hulk Panama Savoy Corpse Reviver Sazerac Sidecar Stinger Cocktails with
cachaça The
caipirinha
is the national cocktail of
Brazil . Batida Caipirinha Caju amigo Quentão Rabo-de-galo Cocktails with gin A
Martini
is a classic gin-based cocktail. Alexander Bronx Chocolate Soldier - 1½ fl oz gin, ¾ fl oz
vermouth , juice of half a
lime ; shaken French 75 Gibson - see
Martini Gimlet Gin Fizz Gin and tonic Gin Sour Greyhound - 1½ fl oz gin (or vodka), 4-5 fl oz
grapefruit juice , shaken and served on the
rocks . Hanky-Panky Lime Rickey Long Island Iced Tea Lorraine Martini Mickey Slim Montgomery My Fair Lady Negroni Pink Gin Ramos Gin Fizz Royal Arrival Salty dog Satan's Whiskers Singapore Sling Slow Comfortable Screw - 1 fl oz sloe gin, ½ fl oz
peach - flavored liquor ,
orange juice Smoky Martini - 2½ fl oz gin; splash of
Scotch , stirred and garnished with
lemon peel Tom Collins Vesper White Lady
or Delilah Wolfram Cocktails with rum
This fruity, blended
Piña Colada
is typical of many
rum -based cocktails. Blue Hawaiian - a mix of rum and
Blue Curacao
blended with
pineapple
juice and cream of
coconut
(traditionally garnished with a
pineapple
wedge) Brass Monkey Bumbo
(also known as Bombo or Bumboo) Caribou Lou
-
Bacardi 151 ,
Malibu Rum , and
pineapple
juice Cuba Libre Daiquiri El Presidente Grog Hairy Virgin - 40% rum, 20%
Orange - flavored liquor , 40%
apple juice
( Variations ) Hurricane Long Island Iced Tea Mai Tai Mojito Mulato - ⅓ white rum, ⅓
Coca-Cola , topped off with Cubay Granadina (which is 13% alcohol as opposed to ordinary non-alcoholic
grenadine ) Piña Colada Planter's punch
- rum with
passion fruit
juice and
grenadine . Rf5 -
Dr Pepper
soft drink mixed with
Bacardi
Vanilla
or original Bacardi white rum making an alcoholic
Dr Pepper
Slurpee . Robert Graham - ⅓ Wray and Nephews White Rum, ⅔
Red Bull Rum and Coke or Rum and Pepsi - see
Cuba Libre Tom and Jerry Zombie Cocktails with
sake
An American produced bottle of Ginjo-shu Sake. Duncan MacLeod -
Coca-Cola , mixed with equal parts of
Scotch whisky
and sake over crushed ice. Named after a
fictional character
from the
Highlander
series, where an
English
actor (represented by the Coca-Cola) plays an immortal
Scotsman
(the Scotch whisky) with a
Japanese
blade (the sake). Sake Bomb Tamagozake Saketini - a vodka
martini
made with sake instead of
vermouth . Caipisake or Sakerinha - a
caipirinha
made with sake instead of
cachaça . Pamake - 3 parts
sake
and 1 part PAMA
pomegranate
flavored liquor. Nog-a-Sake - Three parts sake, one part
eggnog . Sake Screwdriver - Mix 2 fl oz of sake with 6 fl oz of
orange juice . Pour into
highball glass
with 2 or 3 ice cubes. Sake Manhattan - Mix 1 part sake with 2 parts rye whiskey, add ice, and stir well. Strain into 3 fl oz
cocktail glass
and serve with a
cherry . Cocktails with tequila Margaritas
are commonly served
cocktails
at many
Tex-Mex
restaurants. See also:
Tequila
and
Category:Cocktails with tequila Bloody Aztec - tequila,
cream ,
creme de cacao , and red
food coloring . Dirty Diaper - A shot of tequila in a shot glass, the inside of which has been covered with
mayonnaise . Long Island Iced Tea Margarita Slammer Royale - see
Tequila Slammer . Tequila Slammer Tequila Sunrise Tequila Sunset - see
Tequila Sunrise . TNT - a shot of tequila with a splash of
Tabasco sauce . Toro Rojo - tequila and
Red Bull . Cocktails with vodka
A
Bloody Mary
cocktail. Appletini Angel's Tit - a shot of vodka with a splash of
Tabasco sauce . Anna Kournikova - a
White Russian
made with
skim milk . Bachelor
- three parts
Smirnoff
vanilla vodka and one part fruit punch flavored
Gatorade . Batida
- more traditionally made with
cachaça , but very frequently made with vodka. Black Cossack - a chilled
Guinness
containing vodka. Black Marble - two
jiggers
of vodka on ice, garnished with a
black olive
and
orange
peel. Black Russian Blāk Celebration - one part vodka, two parts
Coca-Cola Blāk , served with ice. Bloody Mary Brass Monkey Bullshot Caesar Caipiroska - a
caipirinha
made with vodka instead of
cachaça . Cape Cod - vodka mixed with
cranberry juice . Chi-Chi - a
piña colada
made with vodka instead of rum. Colombia - made to represent the colors of the
Colombian
flag. The Complex - vodka,
Sprite ,
Full Throttle Fury . Cosmopolitan Ectoplasm - An exotic cocktail made by adding vodka to crushed nutmeg, heavy cream, and lemon juice. Fat Frog - equal parts
Smirnoff
Ice Red,
WKD Blue , and Oranger
Bacardi Breezer . An
Irish
cocktail.[ citation needed ] Harvey Wallbanger Kamikaze - vodka,
triple sec , and
Lime
juice, mixed in equal parts. It is also served as a
#Mixed drink shooters and drink shots . Kensington Court Special Kremlin Colonel
- a
Mint Julep
made with vodka instead of
bourbon . Lawnmower - vodka and
wheatgrass juice . Invented by
Homer Simpson . Link Up Long Island Iced Tea Madras
- vodka,
orange juice , and
cranberry juice . Mind Eraser Moscow Mule Mt. Koshka - vodka mixed with
Mountain Dew . Piranha
- three parts vodka, two parts dark
creme de cacao . Stir vigorously with ice, then top off with
Coca-Cola . Polish Martini - tastes of
honey , made using
Zubrowka . Quickie -
100 Proof
vodka,
triple sec ,
Apple Pucker , and
cranberry juice . Red Lotus -
Lichido ,
cranberry juice , and vodka. Rose Kennedy Cocktail Salmiakki Koskenkorva Salty Dog Screwdriver Tamarama - two parts vodka, one part
club soda , one part
cranberry juice , squeeze of
lime . Stir vigorously with ice. Made popular in San Francisco in the late 1990's by Walter Spath who named the cocktail for his wife Tamara.[ citation needed ] Vodka Martini , or Kangaroo. White Russian Vodka Gimlet - vodka on ice, with a splash of
lime . Director
Edward D. Wood, Jr. 's favorite cocktail, he often used the
pseudonyms
"Telmig Akdov" or "Akdov Telmig" (Vodka Gilmet spelled backwards) for his adult novels.[ citation needed ] Vodka McGovern - equal parts of vodka,
club soda
and
orange juice , poured over crushed ice, with a squeeze of
lime
over the top. Invented by Mike McGovern, a friend of
Kinky Friedman .[ citation needed ] The Witz -
Sprite
Soda,
80 Proof
Popov
vodka,
Smucker's
Sour
Pucker Apple ,
Captain Morgan
spiced rum . Named after Matthew Witzgall, this drink is symbolic of his fast lifestyle.[ citation needed ] Vodka Sunrise - One part vodka, one part grenadine, topped off with orange juice. The vodka is followed by the orange juice, the grenadine is added last so that it sits at the bottom of the glass, giving a characteristic blend of red through to orange. Cocktails with
whiskey/whisky
or
bourbon A classic 2:1
Manhattan , made with
Canadian whisky ,
sweet vermouth ,
bitters , and a
cherry The
Irish
spell " whiskey " with an "e", but the
Scottish
spell " whisky " without the "e" (often simply referred to as "Scotch" outside of Scotland).
Americans
generally spell whiskey with an "e", but distinguish between
Tennessee whiskey
and
Bourbon whiskey .
Canadians
generally spell " whisky " without the "e". 7 & 7 Black Tooth Grin -
Seagrams
or
Crown Royal
whiskey with a splash of
Coca-Cola . Created by
Dimebag Darrell
of
Pantera .[ citation needed ] Blackjack - double measure
Jack Daniel's
and
Coca-Cola
with a shot of
Red Aftershock . Boilermaker
or Jimmy & Guinney - 1 pint of
pilsner
and 1 shot of Tennessee or bourbon whiskey. Churchill General Sherman - a shot of
Southern Comfort
with a splash of
Tabasco sauce . Godfather - two parts Scotch and one part
amaretto . Heart of Fire - a shot of whiskey with a splash of
Tabasco sauce . Irish Coffee John Collins - includes bourbon Jungle Juice Lynchburg Lemonade
- one part
Jack Daniel's , one part
triple sec ,
sour mix ,
7 Up
to taste. Man O'War - includes bourbon Manhattan Mint Julep
- two parts bourbon, ice, and mint leaves
muddled
with sugar Missouri Mule The Niall Murphy - three parts bourbon, crushed ice, lemon, orange, and a crushed up parecetamol/aspirin tablet Nixon Old Fashioned Phlump -
Jameson Whiskey
and
ginger ale Presbyterian - includes bourbon Rob Roy Royal Widow - two parts
Crown Royal
and one part
Disaronno . Rusty Nail Sazerac Three Wise Men - equal parts of Scotch, Bourbon, and Tennessee whiskies (traditional style); Tennessee and Bourbon whiskies with tequila (a variation); or
Jägermeister ,
peppermint
schnapps , and
cinnamon
schnapps] (a
Christmas
variation). Whiskey sour - includes bourbon Widow's Cork - two parts
Jameson Whiskey
and one part
Disaronno Cocktails with
wine ,
sparkling wine , or
port
A
Champagne
cocktail with a
strawberry
garnish The following drinks are not technically
cocktails
unless wine is secondary by volume to a distilled beverage, since
wine
is a
fermented beverage
not a
distilled
one. Bucks fizz Calimocho
(also known as Kalimotxo or Rioja Libre) Classic Champagne Cocktail - 1 cube of sugar placed in a
flute glass , add a dash or two of
Angostura bitters , carefully fill with chilled dry Champagne or sparkling wine, add 1 tsp of brandy, and garnish with a cocktail
cherry . Cheeky Vimto
- double measure of port with a
WKD Blue , and served with plenty of ice. Glogg French 75 - gin, champagne, and
lemon juice Golden Doublet Kir Mimosa Moonwalk One-Balled Dictator - 5 parts German
Liebfraumilch , 1 part French
Champagne , briefly but violently shaken, then poured into a rocks glass containing one candy
cinnamon ball . This produces a very white drink, to which much
symbolism
was applied by
British
WWII
veterans
as related in the lyrics of a crude song
Hitler Has Only Got One Ball . Prince of Wales Sangria Savoy Affair Spritzer Tinto de Verano Wine cooler Zurracapote Other cocktails and mixed drinks
A
Pisco Sour . Adios Motherfucker B-52
(and related B-50 series cocktails) Americano
- equal parts
Campari
and
sweet vermouth
with a splash of
club soda . Backdraft
(also a Pepperdraft variation). Common Market Daisy
- almost any alcohol, lemon juice,
grenadine , optionally water and sugar Darth Vader - a shot of
Jägermeister
with a splash of
Tabasco sauce . Flaming Sambuca Fuzzy Navel - equal parts
peach
schnapps
and
orange juice Grasshopper - equal parts
crème de menthe ,
creme de cacao
and
half and half , shaken over ice and poured into a
cocktail glass Hairy Navel -
peach
schnapps ,
orange juice , vodka Hellfire - a shot of a cinnamon flavored liquor (such as Hot Damn or
Goldschläger ) with a splash of
Tabasco sauce . Herbsaint Frappé Jellybean Mauresque (moorish) -
pastis
with
orgeat syrup Patriot Missile - ½ fl oz
blackberry
schnapps, ½ fl oz
Blue Curaçao liqueur , 6 fl oz
Smirnoff Ice , ¾ fl oz
grenadine
syrup. Perroquet (parrot) -
pastis
with green
mint
syrup Pimm's #1 Cup Pisco Sour Screaming Orgasm - equal parts
peppermint
schnapps
and
Coca-Cola , slammed on bar and drunk before it foams over. Silverlake Slip - a mix of
amaretto
and
grapefruit juice Three Mile Island - two shots of
Everclear
in a can of
Lipton Brisk
Iced Tea . Tomate (tomato) -
pastis
with
grenadine
syrup Mixed drink shooters and drink shots Shooters , like this
B-52 , are cocktails served in
shot glasses . One of several types of
alcoholic beverages
intended to be drunk from a
shot glass . After Eight - equal parts
Tia Maria ,
crème de menthe , and
Baileys Irish Cream , layered to avoid mixing. Resembles an
After Eight
mint. B-52
(and related B-50 series cocktails). Baby Guinness
-
Tia Maria
topped by a layer of
Baileys Irish Cream
poured over the back of a
bar spoon
to sit atop the
Tia Maria . Blow Job - quarter of a fluid ounce of
Kahlúa
or other
coffee
flavored liquor layered with half a fluid ounce of
Amaretto . Typically the drink is mixed in a small
shot glass
and topped with
whipped cream . An individual picks up the glass with their mouth and tilts their head back to drink it. If the cream is spilled, it may be licked off by a fellow drinker. BMW - equal parts
Baileys
Irish Cream ,
Malibu Rum , and
Whisky . Buttery Nipple
- equal parts
butterscotch
schnapps
and
Irish Cream
The Irish cream is poured off the back of a
bar spoon
so it "floats" on top of the schnapps in a
shot glass . Carrot Cake Captain Kinger Cement Mixer -
Irish Cream
and
Lime
juice. Cocksucking Cowboy
(also called the Brokeback Shooter) - two parts cold
butterscotch
schnapps
with one part of
Irish Cream , making it 32%
ABV . The Irish Cream is poured off the back of a
bar spoon
so it "floats" on top of the schnapps in a
shot glass . Coppertone -
Stoli Razberi , Splash
Amaretto ,
orange juice , and
cranberry juice Depth Charge Flatliner Gorilla Fart Jackson Five - equal parts
Jose Cuervo ,
Jack Daniel's ,
Johnnie Walker Red ,
Jim Beam , and
Jägermeister . Jäger Bomb Kamikaze - vodka,
triple sec , and
Lime
juice, mixed in equal parts. It is also served
traditionally . Laake and Wake -
Captain Morgan ,
ginger ale , and a splash of
Red Bull . Martian Hard On - equal parts
creme de cacao , melon liqueur, and
Baileys Irish Cream Pousse Cafe Prairie Fire Purple Haze - equal parts Blue (Deep Cool Citrus) and Red (Hot and Cool Cinnamon)
Aftershock . 'Shits on the Grass - equal parts Baileys Irish Cream and Midori melon liqueur. Named for it's colour. Snakebite Tequila Slammer TNT - a shot of tequila and a splash of Tabasco sauce. Toffee Apple -
apricot
brandy,
butterscotch
liqueur, and Apple Sourz or green Mickey Finns. The aftertaste of this shot tastes like toffee apples at Halloween. Uboot Flaming beverages "Flaming"
cocktails
contain a small amount of flammable
high-proof alcohol
which is ignited prior to consumption. "Flaming"
cocktails
and other mixed drinks contain a small amount of flammable
high-proof alcohol
which is ignited prior to consumption. The flames are decorative and do not change the flavor of the drinks noticeably. Flaming cocktails are more spectacular in dimly lit surroundings where the flames are more visible. Drinkers should be aware that the
drinkware
may remain quite hot for a while after the flames are extinguished, which could result in burns. Backdraft
(also a Pepperdraft variation). Flaming B-52 Flaming Dr. Pepper
- Alcoholic cocktail that contains no
Dr Pepper
soft drink. Flaming Sambuca Mixers See also:
Category:Drink mixers
and
Category:Soft drinks Cocktail mixers are not cocktails, rather they are ingredients commonly used to make cocktails. Coca-Cola Rose's lime juice Carbonated water Grenadine Sour mix Tonic water Vermouth Sweetened Iced Tea Margarita
mix Non-alcoholic mixed drinks A non-alcoholic, or virgin cocktail is usually made in a similar manner as the traditional cocktail, adjusting the proportions of other ingredients as necessary to equal the same volume. Such drinks are also known as mocktails or mock cocktails. Arnold Palmer Boston cooler Egg Cream Freddie Bartholomew Golden Glow Mock champagne Roy Rogers Safe Sex on the Beach Saint Clement's Shirley Temple Virgin Mary Virgin Piña Colada
Posted by
NITESH
at
10:32 AM
No comments:
Newer Posts
Home
Subscribe to:
Posts (Atom)
Blog Archive
▼
2006
(1)
▼
December
(1)
COCKtails!!!!!!!!!
About Me
NITESH
View my complete profile