RadioGastronomy
» Archive
» Cilantro-Infused Gin Martini with Lime
RadioGastronomy
The table as the gravitational center of our lives.
Cilantro-Infused Gin Martini with Lime
“Life should NOT be a journey to the grave with the intention of arriving safely in an attractive and well-preserved body, but rather to skid in sideways, chocolate in one hand, martini in the other, body thoroughly used up, totally worn out, and screaming: GERONIMO!” - Hunter S. Thompson , American writer, weirdo, & all-around style all-star
You know that feeling you get when you walk into a book shop, fully knowing what you came in to get, but the minute you’re inside the door, your mind completely blanks and you wander around the shop aimlessly for 2 hours, finally leaving with a stack of ten books that had nothing to do with the one you originally came in for in the first place?  Well, that’s a bit how I feel coming back to RadioGastronomy after a relatively long absence, with so many stories to tell, so many things looming in the pipeline waiting to spill out, so much life going on in me and around me…..but right now I’ve only got one post.
First things first, however.  Last Wednesday afternoon (right around 4:20pm actually!  Hmmm…..), the French Culinary Institute gave me my tall hat, a diploma, and a couple of glasses of champagne.  It’s official, I’m a chef-ling!  I suppose that, to most people, this means that I have some type of authority now on the subject of culinary arts, but what it means to me is that I embarked on a path of learning that really helped me to grieve the unbearable loss of my Daddy.  Culinary school brought me back to life.  Through the process of this education, I picked up a torch that my Father dropped, kept it lit, and kept on walking.  For me it’s been an incredibly powerful experience, and my Daddy was there with me every single step of the way.  Of course, a graduation is cause for celebration, so I’m doing a post about something I’ve too rarely addressed on my site:  a cocktail!!!
Exactly one week prior to my graduation day, I had the too-rare and too-lovely fortune of having the most incredible dinner with a most incredible man.  A part of my life and a bigger part of my heart for years, we’ve spent many occasions eating together, cooking together, drinking together, and laughing together.  This particular meal, however, just seemed to up some sort of invisible ante.  In a city like New York, a good meal (and even a great meal) can be a dime a dozen, but sitting next to the sculpture garden at the
Museum of Modern Art
enjoying the Chef’s tasting menu in a pretty dress at
The Modern
with the most incredible man you’ve ever known is truly some next level stuff.  I savored every delicious bite of heaven the staff brought to our table, every word that was exchanged in conversation, and every sip of the incredibly delicious “Modern
Martini ” that I believe, if I’m not mistaken, was pretty much delivered to the table, one after the other, for a solid five hours.  I’ve never felt more like Cinderella at the ball, even if in my version of the story, Cinderella was a little bit drunk when the clock struck midnight.  Indeed, this cocktail equals celebration.
In attempting to replicate (and possibly one-up) this awesome martini, I had several ideas cross my mind.  Do I create a cilantro simple syrup?  No, too sweet.  Do I muddle it all together with a
mortar & pestle ?  No, that’s just not martini-like.  Finally, I just settled on going straight to the source and directly infusing the gin itself with cilantro.  ”Infusing” is another one of these haughty culinary words that get put on fancy menus to make the 15 dollar price tag seem worth it, but really you just need to plan ahead a bit if you want to serve this drink, because all “infusing” entails in this case is pouring some gin in a container with a bunch of cilantro leaves and letting it sit for a few days.  No big whoop.  And where The Modern’s bartenders used
Tanqueray Gin , I opted for
Hendrick’s , which has a really distinct and lovely cucumber undertone.  It seemed to me that this characteristic fits far more appropriately with the other flavors in the drink.
I imagine this martini at all kinds of swanky and stylish warm-weather parties this summer.  I’d love to serve it with some stepped-up Latin fare like fresh duck confit tacos or a light and crisp jicama salad.  Cheers to sunshine, new beginnings, next chapters, and realizing what’s really in your heart.  :)
Ingredients:
For the cilantro-infused gin:
1 quart gin (NOTE:  I used Hendrick’s gin, but feel free to experiment with other brands.)
1 small bunch (maybe 5 or 6 stems with leaves?) of fresh cilantro
For the cocktail:
3 oz. cilantro-infused gin
1 oz. freshly squeezed lime juice
1 oz.
simple syrup
Splash of Triple Sec
2 cilantro leaves, rinsed and dried well
Instructions:
For the cilantro-infused gin:
1.  Dump the entire bottle of gin into a container large enough to hold it (preferably one with a lid), and add the cilantro stems and leaves.  Let sit for a minimum of 2 days, giving it a light shake or stir at least once per day.  You can absolutely let the gin sit and infuse for longer, but once the cilantro begins to turn sort of brown and dull, you can be pretty sure that the gin has leeched away all the flavor it’s going to from the herb.  Strain the leaves away when ready to use, and you’re all set!
For the cocktail:
1.  Place 2 clean martini glasses in the freezer while you prepare the cocktail.
2.  Using a cocktail
jigger , measure out all of the cocktail ingredients and pour into a cocktail shaker.  Fill shaker with ice, replace the lid, and shake vigorously for about 30 seconds.  Pour the liquid out evenly into the 2 martini glasses, garnish each one with a cilantro leaf, and serve immediately.
Yield:
2 fancy little glasses of awesome
Printer Friendly
Apr 20, 2010 |
Cocktails ,
The Bar
←
3 Responses
Subscribe to comments
Bluey
MMmm, sounds delicious, if I were making it I would probably dispense with the Hendrick’s and just go the whole hog and use a cucumber flavoured vodka just to keep the clean crisp cucumber thing going.
Apr 21, 2010 @ 6:15 am
LKP
I don’t even like gin and I ADORED the Modern’s cocktail. It’s insanely delicious. I’m planning to infuse my own gin ASAP and will have to try your version, too!
Jul 01, 2010 @ 3:58 pm
The M Word | A Brit in California
[...] Despite my unhappiness with the name, the original article and recipe were top-notch, so thanks to Radiogastronomy [...]
May 05, 2013 @ 11:15 am
Reply
Name
Email (will not be published)
Website
CAPTCHA Code *
Miscellaneous
3-2-1 Contact
About
FAQ
Press
RadioGastronomy Roulette
Archives
Select Month
January 2013
December 2012
November 2012
October 2012
September 2012
August 2012
July 2012
June 2012
May 2012
April 2012
March 2012
February 2012
January 2012
December 2011
November 2011
October 2011
August 2011
July 2011
May 2011
April 2011
March 2011
February 2011
January 2011
December 2010
November 2010
October 2010
September 2010
August 2010
July 2010
June 2010
May 2010
April 2010
March 2010
February 2010
January 2010
December 2009
November 2009
October 2009
September 2009
August 2009
July 2009
June 2009
Navigation
Select Category
Antelope
Appetizers, Hors D’Oeuvres, & Canapes
Baked Goods
Beef
Breads
Breakfast & Brunch
Cakes
Charcuterie
Chicken
Chocolate
Christmas
Cocktails
Cookies
Dessert
Dessert Pies
Dessert Tarts
Easter
Eggs
Family Heirlooms
Food Gifts
Game Meats
Goat
Holidays
Lamb
Legumes
Meat
Non-Alcoholic Beverages
One-Dish Meals
Pasta & Noodles
Pizzas
Pork
Potatoes
Poultry
Rabbit
RadioGastronomy Favorites
Rice & Grains
Salads
Salmon
Sandwiches
Sauces, Dips, & Condiments
Seafood & Shellfish
Side Dishes & Accompaniments
Snacks
Stocks, Soups, & Stews
Thanksgiving
The Bar
The Table
Tofu
Turkey
Veal
Vegetables
Welcome
Popular Tags 4th of July
Appetizer
Autumn
Baked
Baked Good
Bay Leaf
Breakfast
Brunch
Butter
Chicken Stock
Cilantro
Comfort Food
Dinner
Easter
Easy
Egg
Entrée
Fall
Fast
Flour
Garlic
Healthy
Holiday
Hors D'Oeuvre
Lemon
Light
Lunch
Main Course
Olive Oil
Onion
Parsley
Party
Quick
Salad
Savory
Simple
Snack
Sugar
Summer
Superbowl
Sweet
Tomato
Valentine's Day
Vegetarian
Winter
Links
Astronomy Picture of the Day
Better Living Through Design
Brain Pickings
Brix Picks
Cooking Issues
Edible
Food 52
FoodFix
FoodGawker
Gilt Taste
Jenni Avins
Lucky Peach
Luxirare
Mermaid's Garden
Palo Santo
Smitten Kitchen
Star Talk Radio
Suno
TasteSpotting
The James Beard Foundation
Topu Lyo
Powered by
WordPress
using the
F8 wordpress Theme
subscribe to entries
or
subscribe to comments All content © 2015 by RadioGastronomy