hangingfire at tumblr - Drink recipe nattering
hangingfire at tumblr
Ask me anything
/
RSS
/
Archive
Feb
8
Drink recipe nattering
So I’m currently running some spare cycles right now trying to come up with a drink menu for an Oscars party. I’ve decided on a selection of classic cocktails and new ones, largely centred on a movies theme–not necessarily the ones that are up for awards this year (or have ever been), but just movies in general. My own idiosyncratic taste in films figures heavily.
For the classics, I’ve picked out the
Old Fashioned
(for
True Grit ; it’s a little nicer than just, you know, whisky in a glass), the
Pink Gin
( The King’s Speech ; it was the Queen Mum’s tipple of choice, or so they say), and the
Vesper
(the original
Casino Royale
recipe: gin, vodka, and Lillet–actually, Cocchi Americano, since that’s said to be the nearest thing available to the original Kina Lillet).
Three of the new cocktails (my own inventions! at least insofar as anyone can be said to have “invented” a cocktail, a hubristic statement that I’m sure Gaz Regan would find funny) that I plan to offer are pretty much ready to go. Currently they’re only unproven concepts that I’ve been thinking over for the last few days, but I plan to test them out over the next week.
Mr Ripley: Named after the Anthony Minghella film
The Talented Mr Ripley , and inspired by
the scene where Tom and Dickie sing “Tu vuo fa l'Americano” in an Italian nightclub . Gin, Cocchi Americano (see, there’s the link!), citrus of some kind (lemon, lime, or maybe a blend), and Campari. It’s loosely based on the Corpse Reviver #2, and is meant to be a dry, insinuating, not immediately likeable sort of thing. It was originally going to be the Tom Ripley, but then the entanglements and cross-references with the Tom Collins got to be too much for me to deal with.
Black Swan: Cognac, Kahlua (or other coffee liqueur, TBD), and
Coole Swan
cream liqueur. Loosely based on the Black Russian and White Russian, only with cognac instead of vodka (hat tip to Vincent Cassel). Totally, unrepentantly trashy, just as it should be.
Kwisatz Sazerac: Inspired by David Lynch’s
Dune , and originally fielded at a David Lynch-themed birthday party a couple of years back. This will be Version 2.0, in fact. Version 1.0 used Goldschlager (cinnamon liqueur, because the spice
melange
is supposed to smell/taste like cinnamon) to rinse the glass instead of absinthe; this time I plan to use St Elizabeth Allspice Dram. I may dick around a little with the bitters used as well.
What’s giving me fits right now is that I’m trying to think of a way of doing a
pousse-cafe -type drink for
Inception . Basically I want a fussy, technically challenging layered drink that’s actually kind of trashy–see what I did there? Anyway, after looking up
specific gravities of various boozes , I had a nice idea this morning: dark creme de cacao, white creme de menthe, amaretto, brandy. Which I realized an hour later would taste fine, but it would look
like ass . So I’m back to square one on that, trying to balance looks and flavor and as yet, not getting very far.
Stay tuned for exact recipes and more. And if anyone’s got any suggestions for the Classics list or ideas for a palatable pousse-cafe, drop me a note.
Posted at 8:58 AM
5 notes
Permalink ∞
Tagged:
Cocktails
dosomethingprettywhileyoucan
likes this mixfox
likes this rutabagaparsnip
likes this rutabagaparsnip
reblogged this from
hangingfire hangingfire
posted this
Tumblr
powered
Bill Israel
designed
RSS
syndicated