2010
March | AGPR
Home
What We Can Do For You
Public Relations, Social Media, Brand Management and More
Speaking of PR...
Jobs and Internships
Publishing Consultation Services
Payment Options
Blog
Your Team
Testimonials
Tips, News & Info You Can Use
Clever Marketing Tricks: Car Service Edition
Wednesday, 31 March 2010 14:06
Alex Greenwood
2 Comments
Bear with me if you’ve heard this one, but my attention was captured by a postcard from the Honda dealership service center my wife uses. One side of the large postcard had a generic car-oriented graphic and the words “FREE Front End Alignment for Your Other Car.” In the lower right corner was the dealership and Honda logo.
Flip the card over and in fairly conversational copy you’re offered a free “ truly free
four-wheel alignment for your non-Honda, never-before-serviced-at-our-facility, ‘other’ vehicle…”
The copy then goes on about how winter potholes play havoc with alignment–this is a good time to get your car checked before it screws up your tires, etc. The copy then answers the question most people have at this
point “What’s the catch, why the heck are you doing this?”
“We at XXX simply want to prove to you that our world-class service department takes the best care of you and your car. Regardless of the make or model, we want you to confidently come to us when you need service…It’s as simple as that.”
A phone number and convenient online scheduling URL are given and the reminder that this is a
“$150 value”
and to
“schedule today.”
Okay, it doesn’t take a rocket scientist to figure out the marketing value of this promotion:
The dealership probably sent these cards only to active customers–those customers (like my wife) who bring in their Honda for regular oil changes, tune ups, etc. They want to double their business from these presumably satisfied customers; guessing that most customers have two cars (like us)– and that if they don’t have another car on their service roster from that family address there’s a reason. The reason is likely that it’s a different make of car, purchased elsewhere (Yup, that’s us); therefore it’s being serviced elsewhere. Of course, the Honda dealership wants that car in their service bay.
They find your alignment indeed does need work, and true to their promotional material they do it for free. That makes you happy and predisposed to coming back, right?
There’s every chance that they may find something else wrong with your car and offer you an incentive to fix it while you’re there–the classic up-sell.
If they don’t find anything wrong, they’re banking on their service personnel’s professionalism, the shuttle service or the coffee in the waiting lounge to make you think of them when your car does need service. Heck you might even kill time and wander the lot looking at the new Hondas…
If nothing else, they have touched a regular customer with a generous offer–this increases
brand loyalty . As you know, the news media is rife with stories of automobile companies across the board scrambling to retain market share.
Pretty smart. It cost them comparatively very little to print and send the postcard; even if only 2-3% of this cohort responds it’s a success.
And yep…I just scheduled an appointment to have my car alignment looked at. I’ll let you know how it goes.
Until then, what do you think of this promotion? Could it be translated into something your business could try?
The comments bay is open–honk first, then drive on in.
Share this: Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window) Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window) Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window) Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window) Click to share on Pocket (Opens in new window) Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window) Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window) Click to print (Opens in new window)
AlexanderG’s Shaken Not Stir Fry
Thursday, 25 March 2010 08:16
Alex Greenwood
0 Comments
or:  A Quantum of Stir Fry
I’ll be the first to cop to being a pretty boring cook. Unless it was toast, eggs, spaghetti or something you could put on the grill I was reliably Dr. No. However, one evening in a fit of inspiration I gave my wife a break and created this dish using ingredients we had on hand. It’s now a family favorite (at least I think it is).
The shot of vodka is really the only thing remotely tied to James Bond, but hey, it sounds cool. Tastes alright, too.
Have fun with this—you don’t need all these ingredients (you may not eat  meat–hey, whatever works for you) or you may want to add some ingredients of your own. It’s really up to you. After all, you only live twice, 007.
Your License to Kill…The Ingredients:
1 medium-sized red, yellow or white onion, chopped
1 medium-sized red pepper, chopped
1 medium-sized green pepper, chopped
1 medium-sized yellow pepper, chopped
1 clove of fresh garlic, chopped
Optional: Fresh diced tomatoes, chopped
¾ cup of olive oil*
3 tbsp balsamic vinegar
* Or 1/4 cup butter
1-2 tsp crushed black pepper
1-2 tsp kosher or sea salt
14 oz. summer “rope” sausage or kielbasa, sliced
Louisiana Hot Sauce
1 shot of vodka
3 cups No Yolks egg noodles
5 cups water
From Q…The Tools:
1 medium-sized skillet
1 medium-sized pot
Strainer
Spatula
Walther PPK
(Kidding…)
The Mission
Heat olive oil and balsamic vinegar (or if you
choose, melt REAL butter—if you use margarine I don’t know you) in a
medium skillet over low heat. Add onion, pepper(s), garlic (tomatoes if
you choose) and sauté all over low heat for 6 to 8 minutes, stirring
occasionally.
Add sliced sausage or kielbasa—they should
resemble little coins of flavor amidst a sea of veggies. Move the pieces around
in there frequently.
Season with Louisiana Hot Sauce, black pepper and
salt to taste, stir frequently.
Add 3 cups of egg noodles (or noodles of your
choice) to 5 cups boiling water. Cook for 10-12 minutes or until tender.
Cover skillet and let cook 10 minutes—especially
good when sausage starts to blacken at edges. Juice should be red and
taste a little spicy. Add more olive oil and vinegar if necessary.
Drain noodles.
Try not to let the skillet contents overcook, as
vegetables will become too soft.
Add shot of vodka just prior to serving, stir.
Serve vegetables, sauce and sausage over noodles
in wide bowl. I prefer chopsticks, but it’s a little labor intensive. (Keep in mind, though, the chopsticks are an effective weapon in case
Blofeld
and his cat shows up uninvited.)
Serve with
wine, beer,
Vesper martini
or any other beverage.
Enjoy and try not to let it drip on your tuxedo—Moneypenny will
notice!
Share this: Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window) Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window) Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window) Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window) Click to share on Pocket (Opens in new window) Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window) Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window) Click to print (Opens in new window)
Brand New Day or Fight Another Day?
Wednesday, 24 March 2010 14:58
Alex Greenwood
2 Comments
“I just hate our logo–we’ve had it two years and business is flat.”
“People buy more from fresh, new companies.”
“The news media will cover our name change. No, really, they will.”
Pity the person who has heard any of that from their boss, board or consultant. People get antsy when business flattens or declines, and often instead of examining the product, service or marketing strategy, attention is turned to the brand itself.
Your brand
is your company’s or organization’s public face. It’s your identifier, your differentiator and
not
a plaything for the bored or those grasping for an explanation of declining market share. I’ve worked in several situations where the boss was convinced by branding consultants or “brand alchemists” that the only thing holding them back was their brand identity.
Hold on a second –I should say strongly that changing your brand is not always a bad move–far from it. I work with some branding consultants and firms who are downright kickass at what they do. They just happen to be professional enough to tell a client when they
don’t
need a rebrand. (Sound crazy? Nah. Just ethical and smart in the long run. What company is going to hate a consultant who saved them from wasting thousands of dollars?)
I’m by no means saying that a lousy logo, tagline or brand message is worth keeping simply because it’s expensive to rebrand. What I’m getting at is that before you make any move towards engaging a brand identity firm you do some research, serious thinking and some long conversations with objective people who have no skin in the game.
It’s all about brand equity. Wikipedia says “ Brand equity
refers to the
marketing
effects or outcomes that accrue to a product with its brand name
compared with those that
would
accrue if the same product did not
have the brand name.”
If you’ve invested thousands of dollars and years of consistency in your brand and decide that it’s what’s holding you back; then you need to put pen to paper and ask “If I jettison our identity and create a new one, how much will it cost?” Are you prepared to flush your brand equity–essentially zeroing out your name recognition–and pay a consultant or tie up your marketing team for weeks or months? (Not to mention waiting perhaps a year or two to see if it pays off.)
Google
“costs of re-branding”
and the results may take your breath away. Some claim that research alone for a re-brand lies in the $50K range–that doesn’t include creating a new logo, tagline, website, collateral printed material, etc.
Well worth a second thought, wouldn’t you say?
Is it your marketing strategy, rather than your brand identity? If so, then a complete overhaul of that strategy–not necessarily your logo and brand identity–is in order.
As for the news media caring about your re-brand? In general they will devote time to your re-brand
only if it’s really lousy one . It can also be a PR nightmare if you tick off your current customer base (see
Coke, New.
or more recently
Tropicana .)
So before you go for a brand new day, think carefully. It may be that your brand just needs a better marketing strategy under it–and it needs to live to fight another day.
Share this: Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window) Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window) Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window) Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window) Click to share on Pocket (Opens in new window) Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window) Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window) Click to print (Opens in new window)
The Science of Getting A 'Yes'
Sunday, 21 March 2010 21:01
Alex Greenwood
0 Comments
Just a few simple words might increase your “yes’ rate:
“if operators are busy, please call again…”
via
The Science of Getting A ‘Yes’ : NPR .
Check it out!
Share this: Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window) Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window) Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window) Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window) Click to share on Pocket (Opens in new window) Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window) Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window) Click to print (Opens in new window)
The Latest Edition of Our Newsletter
Friday, 19 March 2010 14:07
Alex Greenwood
0 Comments
Not on our email newsletter list yet?
No worries, you can
click on this link
to check it out. (But you’ll get it sooner if you sign up on our homepage…)
Thanks for reading.
Share this: Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window) Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window) Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window) Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window) Click to share on Pocket (Opens in new window) Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window) Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window) Click to print (Opens in new window)
Page 1 of 3
1
2
3
Next
Latest Posts
Kansas City’s Rich Aviation Story Told in New Book
Facebook makes me crazy via @N_Smith7
Suite Decking From Me to You by @N_Smith7
The Science of Getting a ‘Yes’
SHHHH, They’re Talking About Us
Contact
Sign Up for FREE PR Tips & More!
Subscribe via Email:
Login Form
User Name
Password
Remember Me
Forgot your password?
Send to Email Address
Your Name
Your Email Address
Cancel
Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.