What is Delirium?
Home
Thought Leaders Series
Insights from Industry Series
MediKnowledge Series
Research White Papers
News Feed
News A-Z
Health A-Z
Drugs A-Z
Clinical & Diagnostics
Life Science & Laboratory
Consumer Products
About
Meet the Team
Terms and Conditions
Medical News 'Tweets'
LIFE SCIENCES & MEDICINE
October 30, 2015
Other search tools: Drugs | Health | News
Newsletters
Contact Us
Advertisement
Trending Stories Sexual activity causes physiological changes in the body that increase women's chances of getting pregnant Loyola gastroenterologist provides tips to IBS patients for healthy living Neuroscientists reveal the brain malady responsible for tinnitus, chronic pain Single drop of blood in the brain can activate autoimmune response akin to multiple sclerosis Spatial grid pattern in brain region is altered in young adults with Alzheimer's risk Study shows how dietary fatty acids affect development and progression of multiple sclerosis
Advertisement Latest News Routine clinical features may aid BVFTD diagnostic accuracy ‘Room for improvement’ in post-thrombolysis haemorrhage management Low-dose occupational radiation exposure increases solid cancer risk Very long-term outcomes of childhood onset epilepsy reported Talyst to exhibit pharmacy automation and medication management products at HealthAchieve Lack of adequate sleep can interfere with fundamental cellular process
What is Delirium?
By Dr Ananya Mandal, MD
Delirium is a state of mental confusion that can occur as a result of illness, surgery or with the use of some medications. Also called “acute confusional state,” delirium usually starts suddenly and can be frightening for the person experiencing it, as well as for those around them.
Symptoms of delirium
Some symptoms are common to delirium, irrespective of cause, while some are cause-specific.
Some examples of symptoms include:
Diminished awareness of surroundings
Uncertainly about location
Inability to understand conversation and speak clearly
Vivid, often frightening dreams that continue once awake
Auditory hallucination
Agitation and restlessness
Fear that others are trying to cause harm
Feeling drowsy and slow
Sleeping during the day but being awake at night
Rapid mood swings that vary from scared and anxious to depressed or irritable
Confusion that worsens in the evenings
Causes and risks associated with delirium
Delirium is fairly common among hospitalized patients, with around 1 in 10 having a period of delirium. Delirium is more common among older people, those with memory problems, in cases of dementia, after surgery, after brain injury and in those with poor hearing or vision.
Some of the most common causes of delirium include:
Infection of the bladder, chest or brain
Fever
Medication side effect
Dehydration
Liver or kidney problems
Cessation of drug or alcohol use
Major surgery
Epilepsy
Terminal illness
Treatment
If a person develops confusion out of the blue, urgent medical attention should be sought. Often, the patient is too confused to tell the doctors about their condition and history is often taken from a family member or someone who knows the patient well.
Treatment is aimed at correcting the underlying cause. For example, infection would be treated with antibiotics.
Sedatives can worsen delirium and should only be given in cases where:
The patients is extremely anxious
The patient has suddenly withdrawn from alcohol or drugs
When the patient is at risk of endangering themselves or others
In order to calm someone down enough for them to receive treatment
Reviewed by
Sally Robertson , BSc
Sources
www.nhs.uk/.../Delirium.pdf
www.guysandstthomas.nhs.uk/.../...or-patients-relatives-and-carers.pdf
www.patientsafetyfirst.nhs.uk/.../...er%20People%20with%20Delirium.pdf
http://www.nice.org.uk/nicemedia/live/13060/49909/49909.pdf
psychiatry.stanford.edu/.../Maldonado&
Further Reading Delirium Causes Delirium Diagnosis Delirium Treatments Delirium Symptoms
Last Updated: Oct 8, 2014
Read in
| English |
Español
|
Français
|
Deutsch
|
Português
|
Italiano
|
日本語
|
한국어
|
简体中文
|
繁體中文
|
Nederlands
|
Русский
|
Svenska
|
Polski
Comments
Clifton Edwards Jr on What is Delirium?
Clifton Edwards Jr
says:
October 31, 2013 at 2:31 AM
This article about Delirium was insightful
0
0
Reply
The opinions expressed here are the views of the writer and do not necessarily reflect the views and opinions of News-Medical.Net.
Cancel reply to comment
Post a new comment
Login
(Logout)
Post
News A to Z
Drugs A to Z
Health A to Z
Clinical & Diagnostics
Life Science & Laboratory
Consumer Products
News Archive
Medical News Tweets
Information
Subscribe
News-Medical.net - An AZoNetwork Site
Owned and Operated by AZoM.com Limited Copyright 2000-2015
This site complies with the
HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information:
verify here.
News-Medical.Net provides this medical information service in accordance
with these
terms and conditions .
Please note that medical information found
on this website is designed to support, not to replace the relationship
between patient and physician/doctor and the medical advice they may provide.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
Find out more here .