New Tarot Deck | TechnoPagan.us
TechnoPagan.us
The musings of some guy about his spirituality, his technology, and his spiritual technology.
Home
About Technopagan.us
Contact
New Tarot Deck
Posted on May 1st, 2012
Categorized:
TW.org Version 1.0
I did something I don’t usually do today:  I bought something for myself!  And, it wasn’t a book.  Well, there was a book with it, but I’m getting ahead of myself.
Dream as the Hierophant from the Vertigo Tarot
For about eleven years I’ve used the
Vertigo Tarot
deck pretty exclusively.  It was one of the second set of limited edition decks released and until the 20th anniversary reprint of the cards, it was one of only 10,000 that had ever been made.  That and my knowledge of many of the
DC Vertigo
characters that made up the Major Arcana of the deck (e.g.
Dream ,
Delirium ,
John Constantine , etc.) made it a unique and uniquely suited deck for my purposes.
But, I can’t find it now.  I suspect that it was packed away and put in storage with roughly 97% of my belongings as I left Illinois, but I can’t be sure.  I vividly recall separating the deck from the rest of my stuff with the intention to bring it to Pennsylvania with me, but now it’s not here.  It’s not in my house; that was empty before we left it.  But, for some reason, I wanted cards and I wanted them NOW!
So, being the good little TechnoWitch that I am, I decided to use the high-resolution scanned images that I made of the deck (have I mentioned I’m a complete nerd recently) to create an app that would allow me to “shuffle” the deck and choose the cards in a pseudo-random fashion.  That was, of course, when I found out that I was missing the scans for most of the Wands in the deck.  I have no idea when or how I lost them.  They weren’t even in the back up that I have of my laptop, so it’s possible that they have been missing for some time.  Regardless, it was beginning to seem like I wasn’t supposed to be using that deck at this moment.
Considering I might not be getting my stuff out of storage in Massachusetts for months, I decided that it was time to look into a new set of cards.  Searching online at retail sites and at tarot forums (especially
Aeclectic Tarot ), I narrowed it down to two possibilities:  I’d get either the
Deviant Moon
(hereafter: DM) or the
Shadowscapes
deck.  Along the way, I found
a blog with deck reviews
which helped a lot and the writer of that blog posted images of those two sets online in their entirety.  To be honest, I can only hope she had permission, but if not at least it generated a sale.  It was also somewhat random that I found that site since it was in the show notes for the 70th episode of
Inciting a Riot , a podcast I listen to, which recently decided to add a segment on tarot.  This episode’s segment:  selecting a deck!  Coincidence?  Yeah, probably, but they all seemed a little too perfect for me not to interpret them as signs.
I went back and forth for a few days, asked my partner for her advice (she voted Shadowscapes), and today I went out to the locale Barnes & Noble and they had them both.  I was hoping that only one would be in stock and, thus, make my choice for me.  But as I stood there, I weighed the merits of them.  The DM deck was dark, cold, stark, and seemed to evoke a certain thrill as I looked at the images online.  It’s also fairly similar to the Vertigo Tarot in tone and both use photo manipulation to create the cards.  The Shadowscapes Tarot, on the other hand, is a series of beautiful watercolor paintings rich in color and detail.  Surrounded by animals and faeries, the cards were vibrant and, frankly, very different from both the DM and the Vertigo decks in construction, theme, tone, and even color palette.
I couldn’t decide, so I figured I’d flip a coin, so to speak, and used my pentacle necklace as a pendulum asking Eris to assist in my decision.  A side-to-side swing would mean that I’d buy the DM and an up-down swing would be for Shadowscapes.  I did my best not to influence things, but I must admit that I was expecting the DM to be the winner.  It wasn’t; it took a bit of circling, but eventually there was a clear up-down swing that was actually somewhat increasing in amplitude.  A decision was made.
I unwrapped it later when I got home and I have to say, I’m very happy with the decision.  There are four cards that I particularly look at when evaluating a deck:  the Lovers, Death, the Knight of Cups, and the Nine of Pentacles.
The Lovers
Death
Knight of Cups
9 of Pentacles
Each one of them speaks to me from this deck, which I think is a good sign for its overall “connection.”  If you’ll forgive the phrase, I love that the Lovers are actually kissing.  I looked at a few decks where they were simply holding hands or facing each other with a longing expression on their face, but this card is about the reckless abandoning of yourself in the pursuit of your Love in what ever form it takes and not letting anything hold you back.  Holding hands doesn’t speak to me of that level of passion.  The card is full of symbols (acorns, crowns, flowers, etc.) that I’ll have to unpack later, but one jumped out at me:  by their feet on the right is a snake and an apple.  Okay, so it’s a golden snake with a red apple instead of my tattoo, which is a red snake with a golden apple, but either way I was quite pleased to see that tiny addition to the artwork.
Death is pictured in bright colors as a phoenix.  I don’t think much more needs to be said on that other than this:  it’s awesome.  No skeletons, no skulls, no dark, gloomy, or even sinister representations like with other decks.  Just a phoenix, resplendent in its glory, wings aflame and reaching toward the skies.
The Knight of Cups is a hard one.  This is a card that I’ve often chosen to represent myself.  It’s an active, motive card but within the suit if cups — emotions and intuition — it’s sort of a paradox.  It has, for me, often depicted the type of person willing to make intuitive leaps without fully understanding the logic of a situation.  Or, a person who uses emotions and their understanding of them to further their daily work like a teacher or psychologist.  Or, in my unique case, a computer programmer (despite what others will tell you, computers work by magic and intuition is a far better way to find your way through a problem space than logic and procedure).
Finally, the Nine of Pentacles is a card that was named mine by some slightly mathematical numerological process that was included with my first tarot deck.  I don’t remember it all, but I recall that if you find my
birth number , it’s nine. I don’t remember how Pentacles were brought into the mix.  Regardless, the fact that the figure on the card is playing the piano was quite a joy as I play it, too.  Plus, the symbol above the piano in the card reminds me of
this artwork
by some dude at
deviantart.com .  It’s not exact but the connection has meaning to me because for some time, before I decided to use representations of my own tattoos for the design elements of the site, that artwork was going to be the “logo” for TechnoWitch.org.  That I immediately connected it to the Nine of Pentacles in this deck seemed to reinforce the sense that this was the right decision to have made, even if I did base it on chance in the end.  Well, chance and the advice of my partner.
Frankly, there’s a non-zero chance that I’ll find my way toward purchasing the DM deck at some point in the future just to have it for a bit.  I do think that the artwork calls to me, so much so that I almost didn’t get the Shadowscapes.  And had I not, I think I may have been disappointed.  Of course, I wouldn’t have had the deck so I wouldn’t know what I was missing, so I couldn’t have been disappointed, I suppose, but you know what I mean.
Share this: Twitter Facebook Tumblr Email Print
Tagged:
eris
Social Networking Links
Dash listened
to
I'm On Your Side
by
Keb' Mo'
from
Just Like You
on 10/30/2015 at 11:01AM.
Search this site:
© 2012-2015 David Dashifen Kees
unless otherwise specified.
Log In
Send to Email Address
Your Name
Your Email Address
Cancel
Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.