DoubleCheckMD Side Effects -
HOME
|
USER LOGIN
|
REGISTER
|
FEEDBACK
User Reviews  |
Add Review  |
Search Reviews
Drug Search
You have entered
0
Drug(s)
and
0
Symptom(s)
Click Evaluate for a complete analysis of your drugs and symptoms
amitriptyline
Side Effect Search
Underlined
words or phrases provide
helpful links to information in
wikipedia.org
and when moused over often give helpful definitions of the medical terms.
Keywords
Keywords
Sleepiness or excessive drowsiness,
Residual drowsiness,
Drowsiness,
Low potassium levels (symptoms include dry mouth excessive thirst weakness drowsiness restlessness weak or irregular heartbeat muscle pain or cramps diminished urination and digestive disturbances) s,
Daytime sleepiness,
Sedation/drowsiness,
Drowsiness during the first few weeks of therapy,
Daytime drowsiness,
Drowsiness and fatigue,
Extreme sleepiness,
Difficulty sleeping or drowsiness,
somnolence,
sedation,
Mild drowsiness,
Drowsiness during the day,
Drowsiness/calmness,
Increasing sleepiness,
Tiredness/sleepiness,
Sleepiness,
Close Window
Amitriptyline
may cause
drowsiness
(common) .
This drug may also cause the following symptoms that are
related
to
drowsiness: Decreased alertness/consciousness   Decreased alertness/consciousness
(common) Decreased/abnormal mental function   Decreased/abnormal mental function . This side effect has been reported with a similar type of drug Decrease in REM sleep (the sleep time during which dreaming occurs)   Decrease in REM sleep Drug withdrawal symptoms (develop when drug is stopped - may include agitation, restlessness, anxiety, depression, insomnia, tremor, increased blood pressure, nausea, abdominal cramps, blurred vision, seizures, sweating)   Drug withdrawal symptoms . Especially if drug is stopped or dose is lowered too quickly Insomnia and other sleep problems   Insomnia and other sleep problems Mania (an emotional disorder with an exagerated feeling of well-being and hyperactivity - can cause racing thoughts; distraction; increased sexual urges; sleeplessness; irritability; anger; delusions; hyper-religiosity; talkativeness; rapid speech; buying sprees; grandiose plans; abnormally elevated mood)   Mania . Increased risk in people with a history of depression
Medical Source Information Yellow
highlights indicate symptoms related to drowsiness. Children, adolescents, and young adults (18 to 24 years of age) with major depressive disorder and other psychiatric disorders may be at an increased risk of suicidal thinking and suicidality with antidepressant use, particularly during the first few months of treatment.
Medical evidence has not shown this increased risk to exist in adults older than 24 years of age, but adults 65 years of age and older taking antidepressants appear to have a decreased risk of suicidality.
The results of a meta-analysis indicate an overall favorable risk-to-benefit profile for the use of antidepressants (i.e., selective serotonin and/or norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors) in the treatment of pediatric patients (less than 19- years- old) with major depressive disorders (MDD), obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD), or non- OCD anxiety disorders.
Although this study also reports an overall increased risk of suicidal ideation/suicide attempt associated with the use of antidepressants in pediatric patients, the risk may be less than originally estimated.
Additional prospective studies are warranted in order to confirm these findings.
Worsening of depression
and/or increased
suicidal thinking
or behavior may always be a possibility in patients treated with antidepressant medications, particularly those being treated for depression.
Anxiety ,
agitation ,
panic attacks ,
insomnia ,
irritability ,
hostility , impulsivity,
akathisia
(severe
restlessness ),
hypomania , and
mania
have been reported in patients being treated with antidepressants for major depressive disorder as well as for other indications, both psychiatric and nonpsychiatric.
It is unknown if these symptoms are a precursor to either worsening of depression or the emergence of suicidal impulses; however, there is concern that patients who experience one or more of these symptoms may be at increased risk for worsening
depression
or
suicidality .
Although the FDA has not concluded that antidepressant drugs cause worsening depression or suicidality, health care providers should be aware that worsening of symptoms could be due to the underlying disease or might be a result of drug therapy.
Because antidepressants are believed to have the potential for inducing
manic
episodes in patients with bipolar disorder, there is a concern about using antidepressants alone in this population.
Therefore, patients should be adequately screened to determine if they are at risk for
bipolar
disorder before initiating antidepressant treatment so that they can be appropriately monitored during treatment.
Such screening should include a detailed psychiatric history, including a family history of
suicide ,
bipolar
disorder, and
depression .
Amitriptyline should not be discontinued abruptly in patients who have received high doses for long periods.
Abrupt discontinuation may
result in
symptoms
of
withdrawal
(such as
nausea ,
headache ,
malaise ,
irritability
and
generalized CNS stimulation ).
Withdrawal symptoms , including
nervousness ,
anxiety ,
restlessness, akathisia ,
nausea ,
malaise ,
sweating
and
salivation
have been reported after abrupt discontinuation of other tricyclic antidepressants. Nervous system side effects are among the most common.
Drowsiness , dizziness,
sedation
and
fatigue
occur commonly.
Delirium ,
tinnitus ,
sleep
abnormalities ,
cognitive impairment
(especially in the elderly), a
tardive dyskinesia - like syndrome,
dystonic reactions
and
seizures
have also been reported. Some investigators have estimated an incidence of 4 to 5 tricyclic- induced
seizures
per 1,000 treated patients.
Nearly all selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors, mixed serotonin/norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors, and tricyclic antidepressants cause
sleep
abnormalities
to some extent.
These antidepressants have marked dose-dependent
effects on rapid eye movement ( REM) sleep , causing
reductions
in the overall
amount
of
REM
sleep
over the night and
delays
the first entry into
REM sleep (increased REM sleep onset latency
(ROL)), both in healthy subjects and depressed patients.
The antidepressants that increase serotonin function appear to have the greatest
effect on REM sleep .
The
reduction
in
REM
sleep
is greatest early in treatment, but gradually returns towards baseline during long-term therapy; however, ROL remains long.
Following discontinuation of therapy the amount of REM sleep tends to rebound.
Some of these drugs (i.e., bupropion, mirtazapine, nefazodone, trazodone, trimipramine) appear to have a modest or minimal
effect on REM sleep . Get emergency medical help if you have any of these signs of an
allergic reaction :
hives; difficulty breathing; swelling of your face, lips, tongue, or throat.
Call your doctor at once if you have any new or worsening symptoms such as:
mood or behavior changes ,
anxiety ,
panic attacks ,
trouble sleeping , or if you
feel impulsive ,
irritable ,
agitated ,
hostile, aggressive ,
restless,
hyperactive
(mentally or physically), more depressed, or have
thoughts about suicide or hurting yourself .
Call your doctor at once if you have any of these serious side effects:
fast, pounding, or uneven heart rate, chest pain or heavy feeling, pain spreading to the arm or shoulder, nausea, sweating, general ill feeling;
sudden numbness or weakness, especially on one side of the body;
sudden headache, confusion, problems with vision, speech, or balance;
hallucinations, or seizures (convulsions), feeling light-headed, fainting;
restless muscle movements in your eyes, tongue, jaw, or neck, uncontrollable shaking or tremor;
skin rash, severe tingling, numbness, pain, muscle weakness;
easy bruising or bleeding;
extreme thirst with headache, nausea, vomiting, and weakness; or
urinating less than usual or not at all.
Less serious side effects may include:
nausea ,
vomiting ,
constipation ,
diarrhea ,
loss of appetite ;
dry mouth ,
unpleasant taste ;
feeling dizzy ,
drowsy , or
tired ;
trouble concentrating ;
nightmares ;
blurred vision ,
headache ,
ringing in your ears ;
breast swelling
(in men or women); or
decreased sex drive ,
impotence , or difficulty having an orgasm.
This is not a complete list of side effects and others may occur. Tell your doctor about any unusual or bothersome side effect.
You may report side effects to FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088.
Psychiatric side effects associated with the use of amitriptyline have included
hypomania
and
visual hallucinations .
Suicidal ideation ,
paradoxical aggressiveness , and
mental status changes
have also been reported with use of this and other tricyclic antidepressants.
Side Effects to Watch Watch closely for the following side effects and notify your physician immediately should any of these develop: Abnormal bruising or signs of bleeding such as bleeding from the gums, nose, digestive tract, vagina (females), faintness, dizziness, loss of consciousness, or rash (signs of problems with blood clot formation) Lab and Diagnostic Tests If certain symptoms develop, ask your physician whether you need the following lab tests or other diagnostic tests (if you've not already had them): Blood tests to assess normal clotting - in people who develop signs of bleeding such as abnormal bruising or signs of bleeding including bleeding from the gums, nose, digestive tract, vagina (females), faintness, dizziness, loss of consciousness, or rash References A comparison of the safety and efficacy of buproprion HCL and amitriptyline HCL in depressed outpatients. Remick RA, Campos PE, Misri S, Miles JE, Van Wyck, Fleet J Prog Neuropsychopharmacol Biol Psychiatry 1982;6:523-7. Antidepressant efficacy of sertraline: A double blind, placebo- and amitriptyline-controlled, multicenter comparison study in outpatients with major depression. Reimherr F, Chouinard G, Cohn C, et al. J Clin Psychiatry 1990;51 Suppl B:18-27. A multicentre double blind trial of fluoxetine versus amitriptyline in the treatment of depressive illness. Judd FK, Moore K, Norman TR, Burrows GD, Gupta RK, Parker G Aust N Z J Psychiatry 1993;27:49-55. Long-term versus short-term amitriptyline side effects as measured by a postmarketing surveillance system. Bryant SG, Fisher S, Kluge RM J Clin Psychopharmacol 1987;7:78-82. Tinnitus associated with amitriptyline. Feder R J Clin Psychiatry 1990;51:85-6. Dystonic reaction to amitriptyline. Finder E, Lin K-M, Ananth J Am J Psychiatry 1982;139:1220. Tricyclic-antidepressant-induced delirium and plasma drug concentration. Preskorn SH, Simpson S Am J Psychiatry 1982;139:822-3. A double-blind clinical trial of mianserin versus amitriptyline: differentiation by adverse symptomatology. Guy W, McEvoy JM, Ban TA, Wilson WH, Pate K Pharmacotherapy 1983;3:45-51. Acute effects of sertraline, amitriptyline, and placebo on the psychomotor performance of healthy subjects over 50 years of age. Mattila M, Saarialho-Kere U, Mattila M J Clin Psychiatry 1988;49 Suppl:52-8. Cardiovascular effects of phenelzine and amitriptyline in depressed outpatients. Robinson DS, Nies A, Corcella J, Cooper TB, Spencer C, Kefover R J Clin Psychiatry 1982;43:8-15. Tricyclic antidepressant-induced seizures and plasma drug concentration. Preskorn SH, Fast GA J Clin Psychiatry 1992;53:160-2. Antidepressants and sleep: a qualitative review of the literature. Wilson S,
Argyropoulos S Drugs 2005;65:927-47. Seizures during tricyclic therapy. Lowry MR, Dunner FJ Am J Psychiatry 1980;137:1461-2. A tardive dyskinesia-like syndrome after amitriptyline treatment. Woogen S, Graham J, Angrist B J Clin Psychopharmacol 1981;1:34-6.
Multum version: 154.0
(Jun 16, 2010)
NEW!
User Reviews
See user reviews (81 Reviews)
Reported Side Effect Severity
All
Rate severity of this side effect
Add review
Most Frequent Side Effects
Dry mouth
Constipation
Anticholinergic effects
Decreased alertness/consciousness
Dizziness
Drowsiness
Lack of energy/fatigue
See More...
Frequent User Reported Side Effects
(6)
Memory loss
(5)
Dry mouth
(5)
Lack of energy/fatigue
(2)
Discolored bowel movements
(2)
Heart palpitations
(2)
Psychosis/schizophrenia
(2)
Insomnia and other sleep problems
(2)
Discomfort/burning sensation
See More...
Conditions Treated by amitriptyline
Depression
Dysthymia
Migraine Prophylaxis
Pain
Post Traumatic Stress Disorder
Somatoform Pain Disorder
Urinary Incontinence
Drug Category
Tricyclic antidepressants
Add a User Review
To add a User Review fill out the fields below. A drug name is required to post. You will be asked to enter the dosage, which is listed on the bottle/container, along with units such as mg, ounces, etc; as well as how often you take the drug. When you enter a possible side effect, you will be asked about its severity. In the comment field, please describe your experiences or any comment that you will think help other users understand what they can expect from their drug treatment. We also welcome comments and suggestions about our site through
feedback .
*
Enter drug name - enter one
drug at a time, by typing at least 3 letters of the drug name and select the appropriate drug from
the list, then proceed to entering the next drug.
*
Enter condition name
- the "condition" is the reason you are taking the drug, which could be a disease such as "diabetes" or a symptom such as "joint aches".
Enter a condition and select from the list shown, then enter the next condition if you are experiencing more than one.
*
Enter side effects
- these are any undesirable effects you might be experiencing from the drug(s). Enter your side
effect and select from the list shown, then enter the next side effect if you are experiencing
more than one. If you are not experiencing any side effects check the box below, No Side Effects.
Search results
close
Please indicate, on the scale of 1 to 5 below, where 1 is the weakest and 5 is the strongest,
the amount of discomfort or impact this side effect is having on you.
OR
No Side Effects
Enter comments
- tell the community about your experiences and any information you may have about taking these drugs.
Age
select
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
38
39
40
41
42
43
44
45
46
47
48
49
50
51
52
53
54
55
56
57
58
59
60
61
62
63
64
65
66
67
68
69
70
71
72
73
74
75
76
77
78
79
80
81
82
83
84
85
86
87
88
89
90
91
92
93
94
95
96
97
98
99
100
101
102
103
104
105
106
107
108
109
110
111
112
113
114
115
116
117
118
119
Gender:
select
Male
Female
Thank you for adding your review.
Return to Current Page
To help protect against automated posting, please enter the words that appear in the box below
( more info ).
Words should be separated by space.
Unable to see the image? ( get another image )
* Required fields
NOTE: Just because a drug or combination of drugs can cause a
symptom does not mean it is actually causing your symptom. Symptoms can be caused by
medical conditions as well. Make sure that your physician is aware of any symptoms you
are experiencing so he/she can work with you to determine the cause. Please DO NOT STOP
MEDICATIONS without first consulting a physician since doing so could be hazardous to
your health.
DISCLAIMER : Please note that the information DoubleCheckMD.com provides is intended
to help individuals to work with their medical professionals and is for educational purposes
only. It does not constitute medical or healthcare advice and serves to supplement, not
substitute for, the expertise and judgment of a healthcare professional. In all cases
individuals should consult with a physician before taking any action based on DoubleCheckMD
feedback including, but not limited to ceasing taking any drug, changing diet or commencing or
discontinuing any course of treatment. The information provided by DoubleCheckMD.com is not
intended to cover all possible uses, directions, precautions, drug interactions or adverse
effects, nor should it be construed to indicate that the use of a particular drug is safe,
appropriate or effective.
Home
|
Privacy
Policy
|
Terms of Use
|
For Webmasters and Bloggers
|
Contact Us
DoubleCheckMD is an Enhanced Medical Decisions, Inc. Brand
©
Enhanced Medical Decisions, 2009
CLOSE WINDOW
HOLDER
CLOSE WINDOW
HOLDER
MORE ...
SOURCE +
Date
Name
Delete
You have no saved evaluations.
Username
Password
Email Address
We'll keep Your Personal Information Private
Registration helps ensure the privacy of your personal health information.
It's easy to register. Just enter a username and password. This is
information you will use to login so you may want to write it down.
Username*
Password*
Password* (verify)
First Name (optional)
Last Name (optional)
Email Address (optional)
I have read and agree to abide by the
DoubleCheckMD
Terms of Use
and
DoubleCheckMD Privacy Policy .
I am a medical professional
First name
Last name
Email Address
Comments*
First name
Last name
Email Address
Comments*