Death: At Death's Door - Straight from the comic book bins | Examiner.com
Skip to main content
Report this ad
In Tech:
Gadgets & Tech Games iPhone Tech Gear Fall Games
Facebook Twitter Google Plus Search
Tech
Gadgets & Tech
Tech Gear
See also:
The Sandman
Vertigo
Comic Books
Death
Death: At Death's Door - Straight from the comic book bins
July 23, 2012
7:07 PM MST
Facebook
Twitter
Pinterest
Linkedin
Google Plus
Comment
Death: At Death's Door Jill Thompson & Vertigo
Death: At death's door
Rating: Star 4 Star Star Star Star
Death: At Death’s Door
Jill Thompson
Page count:
208
Published by:
Vertigo
Published in 2003, this great little
manga influened comic book is a must have for any fan of
Death . Death is a character created by
Mike Dringenberg and
Neil Gaiman
for
The Sandman
series. Death eventually got her own successful spin-off mini-series with
Death: The High Cost of Living
and Death: The Time of Your Life .
When you get a first look at this book it is hard to tell what it would be like. Everything is pretty cutesy and exaggerated, unlike any Death related comic put out before. Luckily the story is so strong you can quickly forgive anything you might consider silly.
In this book
Lucifer
decides to close up hell, giving the keys to the kingdom to
Dream . Death quickly discovers that something is amiss when the dead have nowhere to go and decide to stick closely to her. This story features all of the main characters from
The Sandman
series: Dream, Death,
Delirium ,
Desire ,
Destiny ,
Despair , and
Destruction .
Jill Thompson’s storytelling is compelling, making this book easy to read in one sitting. It is also one of those books you pick up now and again for a fun read on a rainy day. I would recommend this book to hardcore fans of Death, people who enjoy manga influenced comics, or anyone who enjoys a good story. You can easily find this book on Amazon or at your local comic book shop!
Report this content
Share
this article
Facebook
Twitter
Pinterest
Linkedin
Google Plus
Comment
Subscribe
to author
Comments
Sarah L. Covert Charlotte Girl Geeks Sarah L. Covert is a writer, editor, and publisher living in Charlotte, North Carolina with her adorable cat Shiva and her wonderful husband, Henry. A gamer girl at heart, she began playing video games at an early age and when she was 9 she began playing RPGs like Dungeons and Dragons.
Sarah grew up in a small town outside of Pittsburgh, where her love for reading and writing science-fiction, strange tales and horror began. She was only 10 years old when she wrote her first scary story.
She lived in Portland, Oregon for a decade, where her love for the strange and unusual was fostered. Sarah's interest in the unusual has landed her many fascinating opportunities. In addition to several published poems and articles for online publications, she also created an expansive mythos for an alien culture featured in a sci-fi board game entitled " You'n'IT ". Sarah has even worked in film and television. She was Second Assistant Director for a zombie feature film called " Flesh Of My Flesh ". Later, she worked as the Associate Producer of the local public access program "Northwest Artist Spotlight", and has contributed her talents to a smattering of short films. For several years she collaborated with
Lurker Films , coordinating the " H.P. Lovecraft Film Festival " and " Zompire: The Undead Film Festival ". Sarah has geek cred galore! Twitter
Contact me
Featured
Video
Related
stories
How to kill a Windows service that's stuck on stopping or starting
Unprotect a Word form easily, even without the password
Make sure you 'tune in' to TuneIn's Halloween Channel
Blackberry back from the dead with the new Android Blackberry "Priv"
The fatal flaw in Facebook's reporting system and how it affects users
Tech
highlights
Camera
Call of Duty Black Ops 3 Zombies exclusive interview: Time for Gore 'Call of Duty Black Ops 3' aims to bring the franchise shooter fans love forward, by offering a mix of old and new but in a way that entices replay. With the 'Black Ops 3' handle, so too comes the...
Video
Sorry, Facebook friends: Mark Zuckerberg can't get rid of your Candy Crush requests either Tired of logging in to Facebook and seeing Candy Crush requests? Well, Mark Zuckerberg does not know how to help. At a recent Facebook town hall session, this was apparently one of the most-asked...
Report this ad
POPULAR
in GADGETS & TECH
Printable Halloween coloring pages, crafts and puzzles for kids
How to kill a Windows service that's stuck on stopping or starting
Unprotect a Word form easily, even without the password
Blue Angels to headline Great Georgia Airshow this weekend
Free printable pumpkin carving stencils and patterns online for Halloween 2010
Free Halloween music downloads: Top 10 Halloween songs includes The Monster Mash
10 Top Anti-War/Protest Songs About the Vietnam War
How to Get the Best Internet Service in Houston
Make sure you 'tune in' to TuneIn's Halloween Channel
Blackberry back from the dead with the new Android Blackberry "Priv"
TRENDING
on EXAMINER.COM
Rocker Dave Navarro films documentary about his murdered mother
CNN host calls out Carly Fiorina to her face for lying during the GOP debate
Frightened little dog clung to her owner for dear life as she was surrendered
James Ramsey: Louisville university president, staff dressed up like Mexicans?
Dave Navarro: Watch ‘Mourning Son’ trailer, Navarro shares his mom’s murder
Dave Navarro grieves his murdered mother in profound documentary ‘Mourning Son'
Dave Navarro: Slain mother gets emotional tribute from guitarist
DC cop dance-off: Cop busts a move to bust up a fight in A+ community policing
14-year-old dog watches her family as they leave her behind at Miami shelter
Fate of 20-year-old Labrador retriever surrendered to animal control
Report this ad
Report this ad
Facebook
Twitter
Linkedin
Google+
Pinterest
Company Links
About us
OnTopic custom content
The Rowdy
Advertise with us
Sitemap
Examiner.com Entertainment
| AXS Network | © 2006-2015 AXS Digital Group LLC d/b/a
Examiner.com |
Privacy Policy
|
Terms of Use
|
About us
Choose a Topic
Arts & Entertainment Arts & Entertainment Music Movies TV Arts & Exhibits Performing Arts Reality TV Celebrity Pop Culture Animation Young Adult Fiction Books Movie Reviews Comic Books AXS Entertainment AXS Entertainment Music Movies TV Arts & Exhibits Performing Arts NFL NHL MLB NBA Fight Sports Soccer Recreational Sports Reality TV Music Festivals News News Top News International News Strange News Science & Space Politics Elections Environment Extreme Weather Government Crime & Courts Business & Finance Same-Sex Marriage Small Business Stock Market Gun Control Global Warming Personal Finance Democrat Republican Political Buzz Marketing and PR Immigration Life Life Home & Living Pets Style & Fashion Family & Parenting Health & Fitness Education Religion & Spirituality Weight Loss & Dieting Weddings Gardening Home Improvement Relationships Green Living Nutrition Neighborhoods Careers & Workplace Sales & Deals Healthcare Jobs Hobbies Leisure Leisure Food & Drink Travel Spa & Beauty Autos & Motorcycles Bars & Clubs Recipes Drinks Budget Travel DIY Mechanic Auto Reviews Natural Beauty Luxury Travel Makeup Hair & Nails Sports Sports MLB NFL NBA NHL Soccer Fight Sports Recreational Sports College Sports General Sports Fantasy Sports Motorsports Hunting & Fishing Hiking Camping Running Equestrian Water Sports Action Sports Endurance Sports Recreation Tech Tech Gadgets & Tech Video Games Internet Tech Gear Tablets iPhone Google Glass Wearable Tech Xbox One Playstation 4 Photography MMOGs Handheld Games Facebook Anonymous Social Media Consoles Bitcoin Google Twitter Video Log In / Register Write for Us
Search