Home About
Volume 2: The Doll’s House
March 27th, 2010 | Author:
Haunt
The second trade paperback collection of the series.  Includes issues #9-16, and some editions also include a reprint of issue #8 (“The Sound of Her Wings”) which was also featured in the Volume 1 TPB.
The plot primarily concerns Morpheus picking up the pieces of his existence in the wake of his imprisonment for most of the 20th century, and dealing with the machinations of his sibling Desire.  Volume 1 served to introduce the series and ease it into the hands of readers, but Volume 2 begins to truly set the stage for the series as a whole.  Here we witness several events and actions that will be significant as our journey with Dream continues, and we meet a number of key players in the drama which will unfold over the next eight volumes
Rose Walker ,
Lyta Hall
and her unborn child, the
Corinthian , and a personal favorite of mine,
Hob Gadling .
Category:
Dreaming
|
|
2 Comments »
Volume 1: Preludes & Nocturnes
March 8th, 2010 | Author:
zeitgeist
The first collected volume of
Sandman , entitled
“Preludes & Nocturnes”
encompasses the following individual issues that make up the “More than Rubies” storyline: Sleep of the Just, Imperfect Hosts, Dream a Little Dream of Me, A Hope in Hell, Passengers, 24 Hours, Sound and Fury.  “Preludes…” also co ntains the stand-alone issue The Sound of Her Wings, which introduces us to Dream’s elder sister.
This arc opens with Dream held captive by the magician
Roderick Burgess
(a rather Aleister Crowley sort of character), who was attempting to bind death to attain immortality.  It is largely concerned with the Dream Lord regaining his objects of power: a pouch of sand, a helm and a ruby.  Along the way we meet quite a varied array of characters including a former girlfriend of
John Constantine
(titular star of the
Hellblazer
comic series),
Lucifer
and a horde of demons, and the sociopathic John Dee /Doctor Destiny .
Category:
Dreaming
|
|
6 Comments »
Welcome Cereal Convention
March 7th, 2010 | Author:
Haunt
We have the right, and the obligation, to tell old stories in our own ways, because they are
our
stories.
- Neil Gaiman
Hey gang, thought I’d start us off with a few books in the “further reading” category.  Some of us here have read Sandman repeatedly, while others will be stepping into this world for the first time.  In either case these books offer detailed critical study and behind-the-curtains access guaranteed to enhance your experience of Neil Gaiman’s seminal work.  Whether they’re answering questions about who, what, where, why and how or, more importantly, showing us what the REAL questions we should be asking are, the following are truly priceless.
The Sandman Companion
– Hy Bender
Far and away the best “guide” to the
Sandman
universe.  Featuring in-depth interviews with series writer/creator Neil Gaiman as well as dozens of other artists and key creative people involved with the title over the years.  Detailed analysis of the series’ literary devices and symbolism.  Also includes rarely seen artwork, excerpts from Gaiman’s original proposal, and other behind-the-scenes surprises.
The Sandman Papers
– Joe Sanders
A collection of essays and articles addressing
Sandman
as a whole, as individual story arcs or episodes, such as “A Midsummer Night’s Dream,” “The Kindly Ones,” and “Ramadan,” and Gaiman’s
Sandman
stories in relation to his other work and the work of other writers.
Hanging Out With the Dream King
– Joe McCabe
A thorough look at Gaiman’s work not only through his eyes, but through the eyes of his collaborators.  Features comprehensive interviews with all of the major
Sandman
artists, including Charles Vess, P. Crais Russell, Bryan Talbot, and Jill Thompson, as well as rare and exclusive interviews with
Sandman
c0-creators Sam Kieth and Mike Dringenberg.
Neil Gaiman’s The Sandman and Joseph Campbell
- Stephen Rauch
Is any work of fantasy/fiction ever really complete until it’s studied through the prism of Campbell?  Nuff said.
Category:
Dreaming
|
|
No Comments »
Hello underworld!
March 4th, 2010 | Author:
zeitgeist
“-What power would hell have if those imprisoned here would not be
able to
dream of heaven?”
Dream to Lucifer and the citizens of Hell, in Preludes and
Nocturnes.
I thought that this might be a good way for us to “get together” and discuss one of the seminal comics works of all time, Neil Gaiman’s (and co-conspirators aplenty),
Sandman .  Running for seventy-five issues (and one special as well as a number of subsidiary and spin-off volumes) spanning the period from 1989 to 1996, it is an ambitious, literary, at times dense, fragile, tangential and awe-inspiring exploration of stories, what they mean and what they say about those of us who love to tell them and love to read them.
Morpheus,
Dream , the Lord of Dreams, Prince of Stories, the Lord Shaper… whatever you want to call him, he is a fascinating character: at turns vain and petty, aristocratic and aloof, jealous and driven by base passions.  He and his family ( The Endless ) are anthropomorphic personifications of important concepts/ideas:
Destiny ,
Death ,
Dream ,
Destruction ,
Despair ,
Desire
and
Delirium .  Where do we start?  Why not
the beginning ?  Preludes & Nocturnes.
Whether you come here as an avid fan and (re-)reader of the series already or if you are new to Morpheus’ journey, you are in for a treat.  It is a story that rewards careful attention and invites analysis of the layers of interwoven plot threads, metaphors and symbols.
It’s almost time now to turn you over to your host on this journey, a man we call Haunt…
Category:
Dreaming
|
|
No Comments »
Search for:
Recent Comments
Sunfire on
Volume 2: The Doll’s House Sunfire on
Volume 2: The Doll’s House Sunfire on
Volume 1: Preludes & Nocturnes zeitgeist
on
Volume 1: Preludes & Nocturnes Haunt on
Volume 1: Preludes & Nocturnes Sunfire on
Volume 1: Preludes & Nocturnes Sunfire on
Volume 1: Preludes & Nocturnes zeitgeist
on
Volume 1: Preludes & Nocturnes
October 2015
M
T
W
T
F
S
S
« Mar
1 2 3 4
5 6 7 8 9 10 11
12 13 14 15 16 17 18
19 20 21 22 23 24 25
26 27 28 29 30 31
Blogroll
Documentation
Tags
Meta
Log in
Entries
RSS
Comments
RSS
WordPress.org
(c) 2009
All Rights Reserved.
Powered by
WordPress
Wordpress Theme
Sponsored by
Needak Rebounder .
Copyright © 2009.