The Politics Of Music: Tori Amos
Pages
Home
BBC Music
BBC Radio
BBC Live TV
Glastonbury Festival
The Jukebox
Love Film
My Space
Muzu TV
MTV
Last FM
WE7
UWall TV
Radio Tower
Grooveshark
The Albums
The Videos
Music Widget
You Tube/Vevo
Much Music
Nutsie
THE ALBUMS
If you can't view this page properly you must be using a shite browser.
THE VIDEOS
If you can't view this page properly you must be using a shite browser.
Wednesday, 29 February 2012
Tori Amos
Error: Embedded data could not be
displayed. Albums AOL Videos Complete Biography Last FM My Space Photos UWall Videos MTV You Tube Videos Official Site
Tori Amos From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Tori Amos Tori Amos at the 2008
Comic-Con Background information Birth name Myra Ellen Amos Born August 22, 1963
(age 48) , Newton, North Carolina , United States Genres Piano rock ,
art pop ,
alternative rock ,
electronica Occupations Musician ,
vocalist , songwriter, record producer Instruments Piano ,
harpsichord ,
clavichord , Hammond organ ,
harmonium , Fender Rhodes ,
Wurlitzer , Kurzweil ,
clavinet ,
vocals Years active 1986–present Labels Atlantic Epic Universal Republic Deutsche Grammophon Associated acts Y Kant Tori Read Website toriamos.com everythingtori.com Notable instruments Bösendorfer piano [1] Tori Amos
(born
Myra Ellen Amos ; August 22, 1963) is an American
pianist ,
singer-songwriter
and
composer . She was at the forefront of a number of female singer-songwriters in the early 1990s and was noteworthy early in her career as one of the few
alternative rock
performers to use a
piano
as her primary instrument. Some of her charting singles include " Crucify ", " Silent All These Years ", " God ", " Cornflake Girl ", " Caught a Lite Sneeze ", " Professional Widow ", " Spark ", " 1000 Oceans ", and " A Sorta Fairytale ", her most commercially successful single in the U.S. to date. [2] As of 2005, Amos had sold 12 million albums worldwide. [3]
She has been nominated for 8
Grammy Awards . Amos was also named one of
People Magazine ' s 50 Most Beautiful People in 1996. [4] Contents
[ show ]
[ edit ] Early life Amos was born in
Newton, North Carolina . When she was two, her family moved to
Baltimore, Maryland , where she began to play the piano. By age five, she had begun composing instrumental pieces on piano and, while living in
Rockville, Maryland , she won a full scholarship to the Preparatory Division of the Peabody Conservatory of Music . [5]
Her scholarship was discontinued at age 11 and she was asked to leave. Amos has asserted that she lost the scholarship because of her interest in
rock
and popular music, coupled with her dislike for reading from sheet music. [5]
In 1972, The Amos family moved to Silver Spring, Maryland , where her father, Reverend Edison Amos, became pastor of the Good Shepherd United Methodist church. At the age of 13 she began playing at
gay bars
and
piano bars , chaperoned by her father. [5] [6] Amos first came to local notice by winning a county teen talent contest in 1977, singing a song called "More Than Just a Friend". As a senior at
Richard Montgomery High School , she co-wrote " Baltimore " with her brother Mike Amos for a competition involving the
Baltimore Orioles . The song won the contest and became her first single, released as a
7" single
pressed locally for family and friends during 1980 with another Amos-penned composition as a
B-side , "Walking With You". Prior to this period she performed under her middle name, Ellen, but permanently adopted Tori after a friend's boyfriend told her it suited her. [7]
At age 21, Amos moved to
Los Angeles
to pursue her music career after several years performing on the piano bar circuit of the
D.C.
area. [8] [ edit ] Atlantic years (1986–2001) [ edit ] Y Kant Tori Read In 1986, Amos formed a music group,
Y Kant Tori Read , the name of which was a reference to her days at the Peabody Conservatory, where she was able to play songs on her piano by ear, but was never successful at
sight reading . [9]
In addition to Amos, the group was composed of
Steve Caton
(who would later play guitars on all her subsequent albums until 1999), drummer
Matt Sorum , bass player Brad Cobb and, for a short time, keyboardist Jim Tauber. Following several phases of writing and recording, during which Amos has since asserted that the band lost their musical edge and direction due to interference from record executives, in July 1988, the
Y Kant Tori Read 's self-titled debut album was released. Although its producer,
Joe Chiccarelli , has stated that Amos was very happy with the album at the time, [10]
it is now out of print and Amos has expressed no interest in reissuing it. [11]
Following the album's commercial failure and the group's subsequent disbanding, Amos began working with other artists (including
Stan Ridgway ,
Sandra Bernhard , and Al Stewart ) as a backup vocalist. She also recorded a song called "Distant Storm" for the film
China O'Brien ; in the credits, the song is attributed to a band called Tess Makes Good. [12]
It was the only song recorded by the band, and its only commercial release was in the film. [ edit ] Solo career Despite the disappointing reaction to
Y Kant Tori Read , Amos still had to comply with her six-record contract with Atlantic Records, who in 1989 wanted a new record by March 1990. The initial recordings were declined by the label, which Amos felt was because the album had not been properly presented. [13] The album was reworked and expanded under the guidance of
Doug Morris
and the musical talents of
Steve Caton ,
Eric Rosse , Will MacGregor, Carlo Nuccio, and Dan Nebenzal, resulting in
Little Earthquakes , an album recounting her religious upbringing, sexual awakening, struggle to establish her identity, and sexual assault. This album became her commercial and artistic breakthrough. Amos traveled to
New Mexico
with personal and professional partner
Eric Rosse
in 1993 to write and largely record her second solo record,
Under the Pink . The album was received with mostly favorable reviews and sold enough copies to chart at #12 on the
Billboard 200 , a significantly higher position than the preceding album's position at #54 on the same chart. [14] Amos performing on her Dew Drop Inn tour in 1996 Her third solo album,
Boys for Pele , was released in January 1996. The album was recorded in an Irish church, in
Delgany , County
Wicklow , with Amos taking advantage of the church recording setting to create an album ripe with
baroque
influences, lending it a darker sound and style. She added
harpsichord , harmonium , and
clavichord
to her keyboard repertoire, and also included such anomalies as a
gospel
choir ,
bagpipes , church bells, and drum programming. The album garnered mixed reviews upon its release, with some critics praising its intensity and uniqueness while others bemoaned its comparative impenetrability. Despite the album's erratic lyrical content and instrumentation, the latter of which kept it away from mainstream audiences,
Boys for Pele
is Amos's most successful simultaneous transatlantic release, reaching #2 on both the
Billboard 200
and the
UK Top 40
upon its release at the height of her fame. [15] [16] Fueled by the desire to have her own recording studio to distance herself from record company executives, [17]
Amos had the barn of her home in
Cornwall converted into a state-of-the-art recording studio, Martian Engineering Studios. From the Choirgirl Hotel
and
To Venus and Back , released in May 1998 and September 1999, respectively, differ greatly from previous albums as Amos's trademark acoustic piano-based sound is largely replaced with arrangements that include elements of
electronica , dance music, vocal washes and sonic landscapes. The underlying themes of both albums deal with womanhood, and Amos's own miscarriages and marriage. Reviews for
From the Choirgirl Hotel were mostly favorable and praised Amos's continued artistic originality. While not her highest chart debut, debut sales for
From the Choirgirl Hotel
are Amos's best to date, selling 153,000 copies in its first week. [18]
To Venus and Back , a two-disc release of original studio material and live material recorded from the previous world tour, received mostly positive reviews and included the first major-label single available for sale as a digital download. [19] Motherhood inspired Amos to produce a
cover album , recording songs written by men about women and reversing the
gender roles
to show a woman's perspective. [20]
That idea grew into
Strange Little Girls , released in September 2001, one year after giving birth to her daughter. The album is Amos's first concept album , with artwork featuring Amos photographed in character of the women portrayed in each song. Amos would later reveal that a stimulus for the album was to end her contract with Atlantic without giving them new original songs; Amos felt that since 1998, the label had not been properly promoting her and had trapped her in a contract by refusing to sell her to another label. [21] [ edit ] Epic Records years (2002–07) With her Atlantic contract fulfilled after a 15-year stint, Amos signed to
Epic
in late 2001. In October 2002, Amos released
Scarlet's Walk , another concept album. Described as a "sonic
novel ", the album explores Amos's
alter ego , Scarlet, intertwined with her cross-country concert tour following
9/11 . Through the songs, Amos explores such topics as the history of America, American people, Native American
history,
pornography ,
masochism ,
homophobia
and
misogyny . The album had a strong debut, [22] [23]
demonstrating that Amos' fan base remained intact through the label change. However,
Scarlet's Walk
is Amos' last album to date to reach certified gold status. [24] Amos in concert in June, 2005 Not long after Amos was ensconced with her new label, she received unsettling news when Polly Anthony resigned as president of Epic Records in 2003. Anthony had been one of the primary reasons Amos signed with the label and as a result of her resignation, Amos formed the Bridge Entertainment Group. Further trouble for Amos occurred the following year when her label, Epic/Sony Music Entertainment, merged with BMG Entertainment as a result of the industry's decline. [25]
Amos would later hint in interviews that during the creation of her next album, those in charge at the label following the aforementioned merger were interested "only in making money", the effects of which on the album have not been disclosed. [ citation needed ] Amos released two more albums with the label,
The Beekeeper
(2005) and
American Doll Posse
(2007). Both albums received mixed reviews, some of which stated that the albums suffered from being too long. [26] [27]
The Beekeeper
was conceptually influenced by the ancient art of
beekeeping , which she considered a source of female inspiration and empowerment. Through extensive study, Amos also wove in the stories of the
Gnostic
gospels
and the removal of women from a position of power within the
Christian church
to create an album based largely on
religion
and
politics . The album debuted at #5 on the Billboard 200 , [28]
placing her in an elite group of women who have secured five or more US Top 10 album debuts. [29]
American Doll Posse , another concept album, was fashioned around a group of girls (the "posse") who are used as a theme of alter-egos of Amos's. Musically and stylistically, the album saw Amos return to a more confrontational nature. [30]
Like its predecessor,
American Doll Posse
debuted at #5 on the
Billboard 200 . [14] During her tenure with Epic Records, Amos also released a retrospective collection titled
Tales of a Librarian
(2003) through her former label, Atlantic Records; a two-disc DVD set
Fade to Red
(2006) containing most of Amos's solo music videos, released through the Warner Bros. reissue imprint Rhino; a five disc box set titled
A Piano: The Collection
(2006), celebrating Amos's 15 year solo career through remastered album tracks, remixes, alternate mixes, demos, and a string of unreleased songs from album recording sessions, also released through Rhino; and numerous official bootlegs from two world tours,
The Original Bootlegs
(2005) and
Legs & Boots
(2007) through Epic Records. [ edit ] Universal Music years (2008–present) [ edit ] Universal Republic (2008–2011) In May 2008, Amos announced that, due to creative and financial disagreements with
Epic Records , she had negotiated an end to her contract with the record label, and would be operating independently of major record labels on future work. [31] [32]
In September of the same year, Amos released a live album and DVD,
Live at Montreux 1991/1992 , through
Eagle Rock Entertainment , of two performances she gave at the Montreux Jazz Festival very early on in her career while promoting her debut solo album,
Little Earthquakes . By December, after a chance encounter with chairman and CEO
of
Universal Music Group ,
Doug Morris , Amos signed a "joint venture" deal
Universal Republic Records . [33] [34] [35] [36] Abnormally Attracted to Sin , Amos's tenth solo studio-album and her first album released through Universal Republic, was released in May 2009 to mostly positive reviews. The album debuted in the top 10 of the
Billboard 200 , [37]
making it the Amos' seventh album to do so. [38]
Abnormally Attracted to Sin , admitted Amos, was a "personal album", not a conceptual one. [39]
Continuing her distribution deal with Universal Republic, Amos released
Midwinter Graces , her first seasonal album, in November of the same year. The album features reworked versions of traditional carols, as well as original songs written by Amos. [40] During her contract with the label, Amos recorded vocals for two songs for
David Byrne's
collaboration album with
Fatboy Slim , entitled
Here Lies Love , [41]
which was released in April 2010. In July of the same year, the DVD
Tori Amos- Live from the Artists Den
was released exclusively through
Barnes & Noble . After a brief tour from June to September 2010, Amos released the highly exclusive live album
From Russia With Love
in December the same year, recorded live in Moscow on 3 September 2010. The limited edition set included a signature edition Lomography Diana F+ camera, along with 2 lenses, a roll of film and 1 of 5 photographs taken of Tori during her time in Moscow. The set was released exclusively through toriamos.com and only 2000 were produced. It is currently unknown as to whether the album will receive a mass release. [ edit ] Deutsche Grammophon (2011–present) In September 2011, Amos released her first classical music album,
Night of Hunters , featuring
variations on a theme
to pay tribute to such renowned
composers
as
Bach ,
Chopin ,
Debussy ,
Granados , Satie
and
Schubert , through the
Deutsche Grammophon
label, a division of
Universal Music Group . She is currently writing the music for Samuel Adamson's musical adaptation of the
George MacDonald
story
The Light Princess
for the
Royal National Theatre , which was originally expected to debut in spring 2012 [42]
but has now been deferred. [43]
Amos has, however, confirmed the release of an album in 2012 marking the 20th anniversary of her debut album
Little Earthquakes . [44]
The album will consist of songs from her back catalogue rearranged and performed by the
Metropole Orchestra . [ edit ] In print Released in conjunction with
The Beekeeper , Amos co-authored an autobiography with rock music journalist
Ann Powers
entitled
Piece by Piece
(2005). The book's subject is Amos's interest in mythology and religion, exploring her songwriting process, rise to fame, and her relationship with Atlantic Records. Image Comics
released
Comic Book Tattoo
(2008), a collection of
comic
stories, each based on or inspired by songs recorded by Amos. Editor Rantz Hoseley worked with Amos to gather 80 different artists for the book, including
Pia Guerra ,
David Mack , and
Leah Moore . Additionally, Amos and her music have been the subject of numerous official and unofficial books, as well as academic critique, including
Tori Amos: Lyrics
(2001) and an earlier biography,
Tori Amos: All These Years
(1996). [45] [46] [47] "Tori Amos: In the Studio" (2011) by Jake Brown features an in-depth look at Amos's career, discography and recording process. [48] In 2011 Adrienne Trier-Bieniek, a sociology graduate student at Western Michigan University, received her PhD for a dissertation entitled “All I Am: Defining Music as an Emotional Catalyst through a Sociological Study of Emotions, Gender and Culture". Trier-Bieniek focused on Amos' female fans and the emotional support they receive from listening to Amos' music. Along with Patricia Leavy, Trier-Bieniek contributed a chapter to the book "The Art of Social Critique" [49]
which addressed Amos' later albums and songwriting skills. [ edit ] Personal life [ edit ] Family Amos in 1993 Alexandra Palace, London Amos is the third child of Rev. Dr. Edison and Mary Ellen Amos. She was born at the Old Catawba Hospital in
Newton, North Carolina , during a trip from their Georgetown
home in
Washington, D.C.
Her maternal grandparents were of mixed European and
Eastern Cherokee
ancestry; of particular importance to her as a child was her grandfather, Calvin Clinton Copeland, who was a great source of inspiration and guidance to her as a young child, offering a more pantheistic
spiritual alternative to her father and paternal grandmother's traditional
Christianity . [50] Early in her professional career, Amos befriended author
Neil Gaiman , who became a fan after she referenced him in the song "Tear in Your Hand" and also in print interviews. [51]
Although created before the two met, the character
Delirium
from Gaiman's
The Sandman
series (or even her sister
Death ) is inspired by Amos; Gaiman has stated that "they steal shamelessly from each other". [52]
She wrote the foreword to his collection
Death: The High Cost of Living ; he in turn wrote the introduction to
Comic Book Tattoo . Gaiman is godfather to her daughter and a poem written for her birth,
Blueberry Girl , was published as a children's
book of the same name
in 2009. [53] Amos married English
sound engineer
Mark Hawley on February 22, 1998. Their only child, a daughter named Natashya "Tash" Lórien Hawley, was born in 2000. They divide their time between
Sewall's Point
in Florida,
Kinsale [54]
(County Cork) in Ireland, and
Cornwall
in England. [ edit ] Activism In June 1994, Amos co-founded
RAINN , The Rape, Abuse and Incest National Network, a toll-free help line in the US connecting callers with their local rape crisis center. Amos, herself a survivor of sexual assault, [55]
was seen as unlocking the silence of her assault through her music; thus "Unlock the Silence" went on to become a year-long campaign for RAINN when Amos became a national spokesperson for the organization. By the summer of 2006, RAINN had received its one millionth caller [56]
and the organization's success has led to it ranking in "America's 100 Best Charities" by
Worth , and one of the "Top 10 Best Charities" by
Marie Claire . [ edit ] Discography Main article:
Tori Amos discography Up to 2011, Amos has released 12 studio albums during her solo career. Apart from the first two albums, the other 10 are self-produced. Little Earthquakes
(1992) Under the Pink
(1994) Boys for Pele
(1996) From the Choirgirl Hotel
(1998) To Venus and Back
(1999) Strange Little Girls
(2001) Scarlet's Walk
(2002) The Beekeeper
(2005) American Doll Posse
(2007) Abnormally Attracted to Sin
(2009) Midwinter Graces
(2009) Night of Hunters
(2011) Additionally, Amos has released over 30 singles, over 60 B-sides, and has contributed original material to nine film soundtracks, including
Higher Learning
(1995),
Great Expectations
(1998) and Mission: Impossible II
(2000) among others. [ edit ] Tours Amos, who has been performing in bars and clubs from as early as 1976 and under her professional name as early as 1991 has performed more than 1,000 shows since her first world tour in 1992. In 2003, Amos was voted fifth best touring act by the readers of
Rolling Stone
magazine. Her concerts are notable for their changing set lists from night to night. Little Earthquakes Tour
Amos's first world tour began on January 29, 1992 in London and ended on November 30, 1992 in
Auckland . She performed solo with a Yamaha CP-70 unless the venue was able to provide a piano. [57] [58]
The tour included 142 concerts around the globe. Under the Pink Tour
Amos's second world tour began on February 24, 1994 in
Newcastle upon Tyne
and ended on December 13, 1994 in
Perth, Western Australia . Amos performed solo each night on her iconic Bösendorfer [ citation needed ]
piano, and on a
prepared piano
during "Bells for Her". The tour included 181 concerts. Dew Drop Inn Tour
The third world tour began on February 23, 1996 in
Ipswich , England, and ended on November 11, 1996 in
Boulder . Amos performed each night on
piano ,
harpsichord , and
harmonium , with
Steve Caton
on
guitar
on some songs. The tour included 187 concerts. Plugged '98 Tour
Amos's first band tour. Amos, on piano and
Kurzweil
keyboard, was joined by
Steve Caton
on guitar,
Matt Chamberlain
on drums, and Jon Evans on bass. The tour began on April 18, 1998 in
Fort Lauderdale
and ended on December 3, 1998 in
East Lansing, Michigan , including 137 concerts. Five and a Half Weeks Tour
/
To Dallas and Back
Amos's fifth tour was North America–only. The first part of the tour was co-headlining with
Alanis Morissette
and featured the same band and equipment line-up as in 1998. Amos and the band continued for eight shows before Amos embarked on a series of solo shows. The tour began on August 18, 1999 in
Fort Lauderdale, Florida
and ended on December 9, 1999 in
Denver , including 46 concerts. Strange Little Tour
This tour was Amos's first since becoming a mother in 2000 and her first tour fully solo since 1994 ( Steve Caton
was present on some songs in 1996). It saw Amos perform on piano,
Rhodes piano , and
Wurlitzer electric piano , and though the tour was in support of her covers album, the set lists were not strictly covers-oriented. Having brought her one-year-old daughter on the road with her, this tour was also one of Amos's shortest ventures, lasting just three months. It began on August 30, 2001 in London and ended on December 17, 2001 in
Milan , including 55 concerts. On Scarlet's Walk
/
Lottapianos Tour
Amos's seventh tour saw her reunited with
Matt Chamberlain
and Jon Evans, but not
Steve Caton . The first part of the tour, which featured Amos on piano, Rhodes, and Wurlitzer, was six months long and Amos went out again in the summer of 2003 for a tour with
Ben Folds
opening. The tour began on November 7, 2002 in
Tampa
and ended on September 4, 2003 in
West Palm Beach , featuring 124 concerts. The final show of the tour was filmed and released as part of a DVD/CD set titled
Welcome to Sunny Florida
(the set also included a studio EP titled
Scarlet's Hidden Treasures , an extension of the
Scarlet's Walk
album). Original Sinsuality Tour
/
Summer of Sin
This tour began on April 1, 2005 in
Clearwater, Florida , with Amos on piano, two
Hammond B-3
organs, and Rhodes. The tour also encompassed Australia for the first time since 1994. Amos announced at a concert on this tour that she would never stop touring but would scale down the tours. Amos returned to the road in August and September for the
Summer of Sin
North America leg, ending on September 17, 2005 in
Los Angeles . The tour featured "Tori's Piano Bar", where fans could nominate cover songs on Amos's website which she would then choose from to play in a special section of each show. One of the songs chosen was the
Kylie Minogue
hit "Can't Get You Out of My Head", which Amos dedicated to her the day after Minogue's
breast cancer
was announced to the public. Other songs performed by Amos include
The Doors ' "People are Strange",
Depeche Mode 's "Personal Jesus",
Joni Mitchell 's "The Circle Game",
Madonna 's " Live to Tell " and " Like a Prayer ",
Björk 's " Hyperballad ",
Led Zeppelin 's " When the Levee Breaks " (which she debuted in Austin, Texas, just after the events of Hurricane Katrina),
Kate Bush 's "And Dream of Sheep" and
Crowded House 's "Don't Dream It's Over", dedicating it to drummer Paul Hester who had died a week before. The entire concert tour featured 82 concerts, and six full-length concerts were released as
The Original Bootlegs . American Doll Posse World Tour
This was Amos's first tour with a full band since her 1999
Five and a Half Weeks Tour , accompanied by long-time band mates Jon Evans and Matt Chamberlain, with guitarist Dan Phelps rounding out Amos's new band. [59]
Amos's equipment included her piano, a Hammond B-3 organ, and two Yamaha S90 ES keyboards. The tour kicked off with its European leg in Rome, Italy on May 28, 2007, which lasted through July, concluding in
Israel ; the Australian leg took place during September; the North American leg lasted from October to December 16, 2007, when the tour concluded in Los Angeles . Amos opened each show dressed as one of the four non-Tori personae from the album, then Amos would emerge as herself to perform for the remaining two-thirds of the show. The entire concert tour featured 93 concerts, and 27 full-length concerts of the North American tour were released as official bootlegs in the
Legs and Boots
series. Sinful Attraction Tour
For her tenth tour, Amos returned to the trio format of her 2002 and 2003 tours with bassist Jon Evans and drummer Matt Chamberlain while expanding her lineup of keyboards by adding three
M-Audio
MIDI controllers to her ensemble of her piano, a Hammond B-3 organ, and a Yamaha S90 ES keyboard. The North American and European band tour began on 10 July 2009 in
Seattle , Washington
and ended in
Warsaw
on 10 October 2009. A solo leg through Australia began in
Melbourne
on 12 November 2009 and ended in
Brisbane
on 24 November 2009. The entire tour featured 63 concerts. Night of Hunters tour
Amos' eleventh tour was her first with a string quartet, Apollon Musagète, (Amos' equipment includes her piano and a Yamaha S90 ES keyboard) and her first time touring in
South Africa . It kicked off on 28 September 2011 in
Finland ,
Helsinki Ice Hall
and ended on 22 December 2011 in
Dallas ,
Texas . [60] [ edit ] Award nominations Grammy Awards Year Nominated work Award Result 1995 Under The Pink Best Alternative Music Album Nominated 1997 Boys for Pele Best Alternative Music Album Nominated 1999 From the Choirgirl Hotel Best Alternative Music Album Nominated " Raspberry Swirl " Best Female Rock Vocal Performance Nominated 2000 To Venus and Back Best Alternative Music Album Nominated " Bliss " Best Female Rock Vocal Performance Nominated 2002 Strange Little Girls Best Alternative Music Album Nominated " Strange Little Girl " Best Female Rock Vocal Performance Nominated Note: In 2003 the Tori Amos album
Scarlet's Walk
(deluxe edition) was nominated in the category "Best Boxed or Special Limited Edition Packaging", this nomination went to the art directors Dave Bett and Sherri Lee. Also in 2003, "Timo on Tori (Don't Make Me Come To Vegas) a remix of the Tori Amos song
Don't Make Me Come to Vegas
was nominated in the category "Best Remixed Recording, Non Classical" this nomination went to the remixers Mark Buttrich and Timo Maas. Brit Awards Year Nominated work Award Result 1995 — Best International Female Nominated MTV Video Music Awards Year Nominated work Award Result 1992 Silent All These Years Best Female Video Nominated Best Cinematography in a Video Nominated Best New Aruist in a Video Nominated Breakthrough Video Nominated
at
00:39
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share to Pinterest
Labels:
Tori Amos
Newer Post
Older Post
Home
Nutsie
Visitors since July 07, 2010
Search For A Song
Loading...
Followers
Contact Us
Got a Music Site, Blog or Myspace Page? Link to us and we'll link to you. musicrebelbabe@gmail.com
Follow Our Blogs Through Twitter
Free Movies & TV Shows
Anti Nowhere League Hell For Leather
Classic Albums: The Sex Pistols
Cliffhanger
Decline of Western Civilization (1981)
Enter The Dragon
Essex Boys
Every Which Way But Loose
First Blood
Get Carter
It's A Wonderful Life
Jubilee(1977)
Mad Max
McVicar
Only Fools And Horses - A Royal Flush - (Christmas Special 1986)
Only Fools and Horses - Licensed to Drill (1984)
Only Fools And Horses - Thicker Than Water (Christmas Special 1983)
Only Fools and Horses - Time on Our Hands - Christmas Trilogy (1996)
Only Fools And Horses - To Hull And Back (Christmas Special 1985)
Only Fools And Horses (Season 1)(Episode 1) Big Brother
Only Fools And Horses (Season 1)(Episode 2) Go West Young Man
Only Fools And Horses (Season 1)(Episode 3) Cash And Curry
Only Fools And Horses (Season 1)(Episode 4) The Second Time Around
Only Fools And Horses (Season 1)(Episode 5) A Slow Bus To Chingford
Only Fools And Horses (Season 1)(Episode 6) The Russians Are Coming
Only Fools And Horses (Season 1)(Episode 7) Christmas Crackers
Only Fools And Horses (Season 2)(Episode 1) The Long Legs Of The Law
Only Fools And Horses (Season 2)(Episode 2) Ashes To Ashes
Only Fools And Horses (Season 2)(Episode 3) A Losing Streak
Only Fools And Horses (Season 2)(Episode 4) No Greater Love
Only Fools And Horses (Season 2)(Episode 5) The Yellow Peril
Only Fools And Horses (Season 2)(Episode 6) It Never Rains
Only Fools And Horses (Season 2)(Episode 7) A Touch Of Glass
Only Fools And Horses (Season 2)(Episode 8) Diamonds Are For Heather
Only Fools And Horses (Season 3)(Episode 1) Homesick
Only Fools And Horses (Season 3)(Episode 2) Healthy Competition
Only Fools And Horses (Season 3)(Episode 3) Friday The 14th
Only Fools And Horses (Season 3)(Episode 4) Yesterday Never Comes
Only Fools And Horses (Season 3)(Episode 5) May The Force Be With You
Only Fools And Horses (Season 3)(Episode 6) Wanted
Only Fools And Horses (Season 3)(Episode 7) Who's A Pretty Boy
Only Fools And Horses (Season 4)(Episode 1) Happy Returns
Only Fools And Horses (Season 4)(Episode 2) Strained Relations
Only Fools And Horses (Season 4)(Episode 3) Hole In One
Only Fools And Horses (Season 4)(Episode 4) It's Only Rock And Roll
Only Fools And Horses (Season 4)(Episode 5) Sleeping Dogs Lie
Only Fools And Horses (Season 4)(Episode 6) Watching The Girls Go By
Only Fools And Horses (Season 4)(Episode 7) As One Door Closes
Only Fools And Horses (Season 5)(Episode 1) From Prussia With Love
Only Fools And Horses (Season 5)(Episode 2) The Miracle Of Peckham
Only Fools And Horses (Season 5)(Episode 3) The Longest Night
Only Fools And Horses (Season 5)(Episode 4) Tea For Three
Only Fools And Horses (Season 5)(Episode 5) Video Nasty
Only Fools And Horses (Season 5)(Episode 6) Who Wants to Be a Millionaire
Only Fools And Horses (Season 6)(Episode 2) Danger UXD
Only Fools And Horses (Season 6)(Episode 4) THe Unlucky Winner is
Only Fools And Horses (Season 6)(Episode 5) Sickness And Wealth
Only Fools And Horses (Season 7)(Episode 6) Three Men A Women And A Baby
Public Image Limited - Bochum Rockpalast Part 1
Public Image Limited - Bochum Rockpalast Part 2
Punk and Disorderly Vol 2
Punk Attitude
Punk In London 1977
Punk's Not Dead (2007)
Quadrophenia
Rise Of The Footsoldier
Sex & Drugs & Rock n Roll
Sid And Nancy
Stephen King's Graveyard Shift
Terminator
Terminator 2: Judgement Day
The Business Suburban Rebels Live at Rios (1998)
The Chinese Connection
The Clash Live In Munich
The Day After Tomorrow
The Filth And The Fury
The Firm (1988)
The Firm (2010)
The Fog
The Long Good Friday
The Outcasts Self Conscious over you
The Outer Limits Original Series: S2E10 - The Inheritors: Part 1
The Outer Limits Original Series: S2E11 - The Inheritors: Part 2
The Outer Limits Original Series: S2E12 - Keeper of the Purple Twilight
The Outer Limits Original Series: S2E13 - The Duplicate Man
The Outer Limits Original Series: S2E14 - Counterweight
The Outer Limits Original Series: S2E15 - The Brain of Colonel Barham
The Outer Limits Original Series: S2E16 - The Premonition
The Outer Limits Original Series: S2E2 - Cold Hands Warm Heart
The Outer Limits Original Series: S2E3 - Behold Eck!
The Outer Limits Original Series: S2E4 - Expanding Human
The Outer Limits Original Series: S2E5 - Demon with a Glass Hand
The Outer Limits Original Series: S2E6 - Cry of Silence
The Outer Limits Original Series: S2E7 - The Invisible Enemy
The Outer Limits Original Series: S2E8 - Wolf 359
The Outer Limits Original Series: S2E9 - I Robot
The Outer Limits s1e4
The Ramones 1992 live in firenze
The Runaways Live In Japan 1977
The Twilight Zone Original Series: S2E25 The Silence
The Twilight Zone Original Series: S2E27 The Mind and the Matter
The Twilight Zone Original Series: S2E28 Will the Real Martian Please Stand Up
The Twilight Zone Original Series: S2E29 The Obsolete Man
The Twilight Zone Original Series: S3E1 - Two
The Twilight Zone Original Series: S3E10 The Midnight Sun
The Twilight Zone Original Series: S3E11 Still Valley
The Twilight Zone Original Series: S3E13 Once Upon a Time
The Twilight Zone Original Series: S3E14 Five Characters in Search of an Exit
The Twilight Zone Original Series: S3E15 A Quality of Mercy
The Twilight Zone Original Series: S3E16 Nothing in the Dark
The Twilight Zone Original Series: S3E17 One More Pallbearer
The Twilight Zone Original Series: S3E18 Dead Man's Shoes
The Twilight Zone Original Series: S3E2 The Arrival
The Twilight Zone Original Series: S3E20 Showdown with Rance McGrew
The Twilight Zone Original Series: S3E21 Kick the Can
The Twilight Zone Original Series: S3E22 A Piano in the House
The Twilight Zone Original Series: S3E25 The Fugitive
The Twilight Zone Original Series: S3E26 Little Girl Lost
The Twilight Zone Original Series: S3E28 The Little People
The Twilight Zone Original Series: S3E30 Hocus Pocus And Frisby
The Twilight Zone Original Series: S3E31 The Trade Ins
The Twilight Zone Original Series: S3E33 The Dummy
The Twilight Zone Original Series: S3E34 Young Mans Fancy
The Twilight Zone Original Series: S3E35 I Sing The Body Electric
The Twilight Zone Original Series: S3E36 Cavender Is Coming
The Twilight Zone Original Series: S3E37 The Changing Of The Guard
The Twilight Zone Original Series: S3E4 The Passerby
The Twilight Zone Original Series: S3E5 - S03E06 The Mirror
The Twilight Zone Original Series: S3E5 A Game of Pool
The Twilight Zone Original Series: S3E7 The Grave
The Twilight Zone Original Series: S3E9 Deaths Head Revisited
U.K. SUBS : Warhead - 25th Anniversary Live at Marquee
UKDK A Film About Punks and Skinheads
Wes Cravens New Nightmare
Featured on Blog
1 Giant Leap
10 Years
10,000 Maniacs
100 Demons
100 Monkeys
10cc
Abba
ABC
AC/DC
Ace
Ace Of Base
Ace Of Base
Aerosmith
Afghan Whigs
a-ha
Air Liquide
Air Supply
Alice Cooper
Alice In Chains
Alison Moyet
Allman Brothers Band
ALT
Altered Images
Alternative TV
Ambrosia
America
American Flyer
American Music Club
Arthur Alexander
Au Pairs
Barry Adamson
Belinda Carlisle
Big Country
Bob Marley
Bon Jovi
Breathe
Bryan Adams
Buddy Holly
Cliff Richard
Cockney Rejects
Culture Club
Dave Alvin
David Ackles
Davie Allan
Death In Vegas
Desmond Dekker
Echo & The Bunnymen
Florence & The Machine
Gin Blossoms
Guns N Roses
Ha*ash
Iron Maiden
Joan Osborne
Johnny Ace
Kaiser Chiefs
Katy Perry
Kosheen
Lady Gaga
Lee Allen
Madonna
Marc Almond
Mariah Carey
Mariya Ocher
Motorhead
Nirvana
Oasis
Paula Abdul
Rem
Siouxsie & The Banshees
Slayer
The 101ers
The Action
The Adverts
The Alarm
The Dualers
The Eurythmics
The Jam
The Monkees
Tori Amos
U2
Whitney Houston
Politics Of Music Free Albums
a-ha
Alice in Chains
Alison Moyet
Big Country
Bryan Adams
Bush
Cliff Richard
Death in Vegas
Desmond Dekker & The Aces
Echo & The Bunnymen
Exploited
Five Finger Death Punch
Gin Blossoms
Joan Osborne
Kaiser Chiefs
Lady Gaga
Melanie C
Oasis
Peter Tosh
Savage Garden
Sex Pistols
Sham 69
Sid Vicious
Silverchair
Skunk Anansie
Slade
The Jam
The Nolans
The Pierces
The Stranglers
The Style Council
Tom Robinson Band
T'Pau
Popular Posts
Oasis - Live At The Cabaret Metro, Chicago 1994
Genya Ravan - And I Mean It!
Ace Of Base
Mariah Carey
Whitney Houston
Alice in Chains
Siouxsie & The Banshees
Big Country - Driving To Damascus
Bauhaus - Crackle: The Best Of Bauhaus
Rush - Moving Pictures
The Artists
AC/DC
Ace Of Base
ABC
Aerosmith
a-ha
Air Supply
Alice Cooper
Alice In Chains
Amazing Blondel
Ambrosia
American Music Club
Arthur Brown
Bad Company
Barry Adamson
Billy Joel
Black Sabbath
Blondie
Blue Oyster Cult
Bob Dylan
Bob Seger
Boston
Bruce Springsteen
Bryan Adams
Budgie
Rockpalast
Billy Bragg
Shinedown (2012)
Halestorm (2012)
Liberty Lies (2012)
Eurosonic 2012
Thees Uhlmann (Westend Indoor 2011)
Chickenfoot (2012)
Walter Trout (Leverkusener Jazztage 2011)
Johnny A. (Leverkusener Jazztage 2011)
Popa Chubby (Leverkusener Jazztage 2011)
Andy McKee (Leverkusener Jazztage 2011)
Rockpalast BACKSTAGE: Beatsteaks (2012)
Hundred Seventy Split (Crossroads 2011)
22-Pistepirkko (Crossroads 2011)
Archive (Rolling Stone Weekender 2011)
The Notwist (Rolling Stone Weekender 2011)
Rockpalast BACKSTAGE: Thees Uhlmann (2012)
The Delta Saints (Crossroads 2011)
Brian Auger Trinity feat. Savannah Grace (Crossroads 2011)
Rockpalast BACKSTAGE: Maximo Park (2012)
Casper (1LIVE Kronekonzert 2011)
Philipp Poisel (1LIVE Kronekonzert 2011)
Clueso (1LIVE Kronekonzert 2011)
Tim Bendzko (1LIVE Kronekonzert 2011)
Heather Nova (Rolling Stone Weekender 2011)
Rockpalast BACKSTAGE: Casper (2012)
...And you will know us by the Trail Of Dead (2009)
18th Dye (Intro Intim 2006)
22-Pistepirkko (Crossroads 2011)
Admiral T (SummerJam 2009)
Agent Fresco (Eurosonic 2010)
Air Traffic (Rheinkultur 2008)
Airbourne (2010)
Akron/Family (Rolling Stone Weekender 2009)
Alberta Cross (Area4 2009)
Album Leaf, The (Intro Intim 2007)
Alexisonfire (Westend Indoor 2010)
Alin Coen Band (Crossroads 2011)
All Time Low (Area4 2010)
Alter Bridge (2011)
Anajo (Intro Intim 2006)
And So I Watch You From Afar (Eurosonic 2010)
Animal Alpha (2006)
Answer, The (Classic Rocknacht 2007)
Anti-Flag (Area4 2009)
Antlers, The (Haldern Pop 2011)
Anvil (2011)
Arbouretum (Crossroads 2011)
Archive (Rolling Stone Weekender 2011)
Armatrading, Joan (6. Rockpalast Nacht, 1980)
Asaf Avidan & The Mojos (Classic Rocknacht Special 2009)
Asaf Avidan & The Mojos (Haldern Pop 2009)
Åström, Kristofer & Rainaways (Crossroads 2008)
Atmosphere (SummerJam 2009)
Baby Woodrose (Crossroads 2010)
Baby Woodrose (Eurosonic 2004)
Babylon Circus (SummerJam 2009)
Bad Religion (Area4 2008)
Bambi Kino (2010)
Band Of Heathens, The (Crossroads 2009)
Band Of Skulls (Reeperbahn Festival 2010)
Baroness (Visions Indoor 2008)
Baskery (Crossroads 2009)
Beasts Of Bourbon (Crossroads 2008)
Beat!Beat!Beat! (Westend Indoor 2010)
Beatsteaks: 'Unterwegs mit den Beatsteaks' (Doku 2007)
Beirut (Haldern Pop 2010)
Bellrays, The (Crossroads 2008)
Ben, Pétur (Crossroads 2009)
Bendzko, Tim (1LIVE Kronekonzert 2011)
Bernd Begemann & Die Befreiung (Crossroads 2005)
Beth Hart (Crossroads 2011)
Bird, Andrew (Haldern Pop 2009)
Bishops, The (Crossroads 2009)
Bjork, Brant (2010)
Black Angels, The (2011)
Black Box Revelation (Reeperbahn Festival 2008)
Black Rebel Motorcycle Club (Area4 2010)
Black Sheep, The (Club Show 2008)
Black Stone Cherry (2011)
Black Stone Cherry (Crossroads 2009)
Black, Gus (Crossroads 2005)
Blackie And The Rodeo Kings (Crossroads 2007)
Blackmail (Visions Indoor 2008)
Blindside Blues Band (Crossroads 2010)
Bloc Party (Melt! 2009)
Blood Red Shoes (Haldern Pop 2010)
Blue Cheer (Crossroads 2008)
Blue Van, The (Crossroads 2007)
Bohren & der Club of Gore (Westend Indoor 2011)
Bonamassa, Joe (2005)
Boozed (Crossroads 2006)
Boozed: 'Boozed heisst Rock!' (Doku 2008)
Boss Martians (Crossroads 2008)
Botanica (Crossroads 2005)
Bouncing Souls, The (Area4 2011)
Bragg, Billy (Rolling Stone Weekender 2009)
Brainstorm (Bootleg 2006)
Brandos, The (Crossroads 2007)
Brew, The (Classic Rocknacht Special 2009)
Brian Auger Trinity feat. Savannah Grace (Crossroads 2011)
Brian Jonestown Massacre, The (2010)
Broilers (Area4 2009)
Broken Beats, The (Reeperbahn Festival 2010)
Built4Speed (Bootleg 2007)
Burg Herzberg Festival 2005
Burg Herzberg Festival 2006
Live In Concert
10 Paces
78 Saab
Adalita
Adam Cousens
Adam Green
Adrian Klumpes
Afrirampo
After The Fall
Against
Akaname
Akercocke
Alabama 3
Alamode
Alcohotlicks
Alexisonfire
Ali Mireskandari
Alister Spence Trio
All Time Low
Altitude
Amali Ward
Amanda Baker
Amanda Palmer
Ambrosia
Amy Meredith
An Horse
Angela's Dish
Angus And Julia Stone
Ani DiFranco
Animal Collective
Anti-Flag
Architects
Art Brut
Art vs Science
As SilenceBreaks
Ash
Ash Grunwald
Astreetlightsong
Astriaal
Atomicide
Atreyu
Atrocities
August Burns Red
Baba-Oriley
Bachelorette
Bambino Koresh
Band Of Five Names
Bane Of Isildur
Baroness
Barry Adamson
Baseball
Basslines
Bayside
Beaches
Bedouin Soundclash
Ben Harper And Relentless 7
Between The Devil and The Deep
Beyond Terror Beyond Grace
Big Heavy Stuff
Bird Automatic
Black Asylum
Black Diamond Heavies
Black Lips
Black Mountain
Bleached Academy
Blitzen Trapper
Blondie
Blood Duster
Blue King Brown
Bob Evans
Bodyjar
Bone Atlas
Bouncing Souls
Boy + Girl
Brand New Fashion
Brant Bjork
Break Even
Brett Hunt
Brian Campeau
Brian Jonestown Massacre
Bridezilla
Bridgemary Kiss
British India
Brotherfunk
Brownbird Rudy Relic
Built To Spill
Butcher Birds
Dropkick Murphy's
Evan Dando
Five Finger Death Punch
Gary Numan
Gotye
The Adventure
The Amenta
The Barons Of Tang
The Basics
The Bedroom Philosopher
The Bell Divers
The Berzerker
The Big Pink
The Black Angels
The Black Stars
The Boat People
The Bravery
The Break
The Bronx
The Bug & Warrior Queen
The Bungalows
The Buzzcocks
The Exploited
The Pretenders
The Vaccines
The Wonder Stuff
Vevo HD Quality Video
10,000 Maniacs
3 Doors Down
4 Minute
50 Cent
Abba
AC/DC
Ace Of Base
Adam And The Ants
Adele
Aerosmith
Akon
Alice Cooper
Alice In Chains
Alicia Keys
American Music Club
Amy Winehouse
Anthrax
Arrested Development
Ash
Asia
Avicii
Avril Lavigne
Backstreet Boys
Beyonce
Big Country
Black Grape
Blink 182
Blondie
Blur
Bob Marley
Bon Jovi
Boyzone
Breathe
Britney Spears
Bryan Adams
Calle 13
Camila
Carly Rae Jepsen
Carrie Underwood
Chayanne
Cher Lloyd
Chino Y Nacho
Chris Brown
Christina Aguilera
Ciara
Coldplay
Daddy Yankee
David Guetta
Don Omar
Dr Dre
Drake
Duran Duran
Eminem
Enrique Iglesias
Espinoza Paz
Evanescence
Five For Fighting
Florence And The Machine
Foo Fighters
Foster The People
Gin Blossoms
Guns n Roses
Ha-ash
J Cole
Jay Z & Kanye West
Jennifer Lopez
Jessie J
Joan Armatrading
Justin Bieber
Kanye West
Katy Perry
Kelly Clarkson
Kesha
Lady GaGa
Lana Del Rey
Lil Wayne
Lloyd
LMFAO
Luis Fonsi
Madonna
Marc Anthony
Mariah Carey
Maroon 5
Michael Jackson
Motorhead
Nas
Nelly
Nelly Furtado
Neon Trees
Ne-Yo
Nicki Minaj
Nirvana
One Direction
One Republic
Pat Benatar
Paul Young
Paula Abdul
Pink
Pitbull
Pixie Lott
Prodigy
R Kelly
Ramones
Ricky Martin
Rihanna
Rise Against
Selena Gomez And The Scene
Shakira
Shawn Colvin
Snoop Dogg
Social Distortion
Soulja Boy Tell'em
Spandau Ballet
Spice Girls
Sting
Swedish House Mafia
System Of A Down
T Pain
Taio Cruz
Taylor Swift
The Alarm
The Black Eyed Peas
The Clash
The Cranberries
The Foo Fighters
The Game
The Jam
The Killers
The Police
The Pretenders
The Pussycat Dolls
The Who
Timbaland
Timbaland
Tori Amos
Train
Train
Tyga
U2
Usher
Westlife
Whitney Houston
Yuridia
Zendaya
Feedjit
Feedjit Live Blog Stats
Live On Letterman
Adele
Foster The People
Coldplay
Jamie Foxx
Bon Jovi
Brad Paisley
The Foo Fighters
Dierks Bentley
Ryan Adams
Peter Gabriel
Joe Jonas
Katy Perry
Wilco
Incubus
Cake
Beady Eye
Tinie Tempah
Ben Harper
Ray LaMontagne
TV On The Radio
Rascal Flatts
My Morning Jacket
Mary J Blige
Gorillaz
Florence And The Machine
Snow Patrol
Jennifer Hudson
Artist Radio Nutsie
Black Sabbath
Metallica
Slayer
Motorhead
Megadeth
Pantera
The United States Of America
The Beatles
Country Joe And The Fish
Pink Floyd
Jimi Hendrix Experience
HP Lovecraft
Gong
Grateful Dead
Nirvana
Pearl Jam
Soundgarden
Stone Temple Pilots
Alice In Chains
Veruca Salt
Artists Featured On You Tube
A Balladeer
A Brand
A Breath Before Surfacing
A Broken Silence
A Bullet for Pretty Boy
A Camp
A Certain Ratio
A Change of Pace
A Cursive Memory
A Dark Halo
A Day to Remember
A Dream Too Late
A Farewell Rescue
A Fine Frenzy
A Flock of Seagulls
A Forest of Stars
A Girl Called Eddy
A Guy Called Gerald
A Hawk and a Hacksaw
A Hero A Fake
A Hero's Fate
A Hope for Home
A Life Once Lost
A Loss For Words
A Lot Like Birds
A Lull
A Made Up Sound
A Man Called Adam
A Night At The Chalet
A Northern Chorus
A Pale Horse Named Death
A Past Unknown
A Perfect Circle
A Perfect Friend
The Lunchbox
1976 John Peel Festive Fifty
Combat 84 - Charge of the 7th Cavalry
Combat 84 - Orders Of The Day
Oasis - Live at Earls Court, London 1995
Oasis - Live at Glastonbury 1995
Oasis - Live at the Commodore Ballroom
Oasis - Live at the GMU Patriot Centre
Oasis - Live at the International Arena
Oasis - Live at the Orpheum Theater
UK Garage Biggin Up The Massive
Featured Albums
10000 Maniacs - Blind Mans Zoo
10000 Maniacs - Hope Chest
10000 Maniacs - In My Tribe
10000 Maniacs - MTV Unplugged
10000 Maniacs - Our Time In Eden
10000 Maniacs - The Wishing Chair
30 Seconds To Mars - This Is War
311 - Dont Tread On Me
999 - 999
999 - Live in L.A. 1991
999 - Selected Favorites Volume 2
999 - Seperates
999 - The Early Stuff (The UA Years)
A Flock Of Seagulls - Rock Masters: Modern Love Is...
A Perfect Circle - aMOTION
A Perfect Circle - eMOTIVe
A Perfect Circle - Mer De Noms
A Perfect Circle - Thirteenth Step
Abba - Abba Gold
Abba - Abba Live
Abba - Greatest Hits
Abba - More ABBA Gold (Super Jewel Box Version)
ABC - The Lexicon Of Love
Above And Beyond - Group Therapy
Abrasive Wheels - Skum
Adam And The Ants - Antbox
Adam And The Ants - B-Side Babies
Adam And The Ants - Dirk Wears White Sox
Adam And The Ants - Kings Of The Wild Frontier
Adam And The Ants - Prince Charming
Adam Ant - Antics In The Forbidden Zone
Adam Ant - Friend Or Foe
Adam Ant - Strip
Adam Ant - Vive Le Rock
Adam Ant - Wonderful
Adele - 19 (With Bonus Tracks)
Adele - 21
Adele - Set Fire to the Rain (Single)
Adverts - Anthology
Aerosmith - Young Lust: The Aerosmith Anthology
Afghan Whigs - 1965
a-ha - 25
Air Supply - Greatest Hits Live...Now And Forever
Alarm - Standards
Alfie Boe - Bring Him Home
Alice Cooper - Greatest Hits
Alice Gold - Seven Rainbows
Alice In Chains - The Essential Alice In Chains
Alishas Attic - The Collection
Alison Moyet - The Singles
All Time Low - Dirty Work
Allman Brothers Band - The Essential Allman Brothers Band - The Epic Years
Aloe Blacc - Good Things
Alternative TV - Love Lies Limp
Amazing Blondel - The Amazing Elsie Emerald
Amy Winehouse - Back To Black
Amy Winehouse - Frank (Deluxe Standard Edition)
Amy Winehouse - Frank (Rarities Edition)
Amy Winehouse - Frank And Back To Black
Andrea Bocelli - Vivere: The Best Of Andrea Bocell
Andreas Johnson - Liebling
Andrew Gold - Thank You For Being A Friend: The Best Of Andrew Gold
Angelic Upstarts - The EMI Years
Anna Calvi - Anna Calvi
Anthrax - Worship Music
Arctic Monkeys - Suck It And See
Artful Dodger - Its All About The Stragglers
Ashlee Simpson - Autobiography
Aswad - The Aswad Collection
Avril Lavigne - Let Go
B.B. King - Live At The BBC
Baby D - Deliverance
Bad Meets Evil - Hell: The Sequel (Deluxe Explicit Version)
Bad News - Bad News
Bangles - Playlist: The Very Best Of The Bangles
Barbra Streisand - What Matters Most
Barclay James Harvest - BBC In Concert 1972
Barry Manilow - 15 minutes
Battles - B EP
Bauhaus - Crackle: The Best Of Bauhaus
Beady Eye - Different Gear, Still Speeding
Beautiful South - BBC Sessions
Beautiful South - Live At The BBC
Belinda Carlisle - A Place On Earth: The Greatest Hits
Belinda Carlisle - A Woman And A Man
Belinda Carlisle - Belinda
Belinda Carlisle - Essential
Belinda Carlisle - Heaven On Earth (Special Edition)
Belinda Carlisle - Real
Belinda Carlisle - Runaway Horses
Belinda Carlisle - The Collection
Benjamin Francis Leftwich - Last Smoke Before The Snowstorm
Beverley Knight - Soul UK
Beyonce - 4
Beyonce - B Day
Beyonce - Dangerously In Love
Beyonce - I Am Sasha Fierce (Platinum Edition)
Beyonce - I Am Tour Instrumentals
Beyonce - I Am World Tour
Biffy Clyro - Only Revolutions
Biffy Clyro - Revolutions/Live At Wembley
Big Audio Dynamite - The Best Of
Big Country - Big Country Legends
Big Country - Big Hits Live
Big Country - Come Up Screaming
Big Country - Das Fest Karlsrhue
Big Country - Driving To Damascus
Big Country - In Concert
Big Country - John Waynes Dream
Big Country - One In A Million
Big Country - Peace In Our Time (Digitally Remastered)
Big Country - Rarities II
Big Country - Rarities III
Big Country - Rarities V
Big Country - Rarities VI
Big Country - Rarities VII
Big Country - Rarities VIII
Big Country - Restless Natives
Big Country - Steeltown (Digitally Remastered)
Big Country - The Buffalo Skinners
Big Country - The Crossing
Big Country - The Seer (Digitally Remastered)
Big Country - The Universal Masters Collection
Big Country - Through A Big Country
Big Country - Without The Aid Of A Safety Net
Big Country - www.BigCountry.co.uk
Big Country -Rarities IV
Big Time Rush - BTR
Billy Bragg - Billy Bragg Vol 1
Billy Ocean - The Ultimate Collection
Billy Swan - Choice Cuts Plus
Black Country Communion - 2
Black Eyed Peas - The Beginning And The Best Of The E.N.D.
Black Stone Cherry - Between The Devil And The Deep Blue Sea
Black Uhuru - Unification
Black Veil Brides - Set The World On Fire
Blondie - Blondie At The BBC
Blondie - Greatest Hits: Blondie
Blondie - Panic Of Girls
Bluetones - BBC Radio Sessions
Bo Bice - The Real Thing
Bob Brozman - Blues Reflex
Bob Marley And The Wailers - Legend
Bombay Bicycle Club - A Different Kind Of Fix
Bombay Bicycle Club - I Had The Blues But I Shook ...
Bon Iver - For Emma, Forever Ago
Bon Jovi - Greatest Hits
Brave Yesterday - The Truth Is
Breathe - All That Jazz
Breathe - Peace Of Mind
Brookes Brothers - Brookes Brothers
Bruce Springsteen - Greatest Hits
Bruno Mars - Doo-Wops And Hooligans
Bryan Adams - 11 Repack (E-Album)
Bryan Adams - 18 Til I Die
Bryan Adams - Anthology
Bryan Adams - Bare Bones
Bryan Adams - Bryan Adams
Bryan Adams - Cuts Like A Knife
Bryan Adams - Into The Fire
Bryan Adams - Live Live Live
Bryan Adams - MTV Unplugged
Bryan Adams - On A Day Like Today
Bryan Adams - Reckless
Bryan Adams - Room Service
Bryan Adams - So Far So Good
Bryan Adams - Spirit: Stallion Of The Cimarron
Bryan Adams - The Best Of Me
Bryan Adams - Waking Up The Neighbours
Bryan Adams - You Want It, You Got It
Bucks Fizz - The Greatest Hits
Buzzcocks - Singles: Going Steady
Cage The Elephant - Thank You Happy Birthday
Caitlin Rose - Own Side Now
Camper Van Beethoven - Telephone Free Landslide Victory
Caro Emerald - Deleted Scenes From The Cutting Room Floor
Carpenters - Gold
Carpenters - Love Songs
Cast - BBC Sessions
Cee Lo Green - The Lady Killer
Celine Dion - 1 Fille and 4 Types
Celine Dion - My Love: Ultimate Essential Collection
Charlie Simpson - Young Pilgrim
Chase + Status - No More Idols
Cheryl Cole - 3 Words
Chic - The Very Best Of Chic
China Crisis - Diary: A Collection
Chris Brown - F.A.M.E.
Chris Rea - Santo Spirito Blues
Christina Perri - Lovestrong
Ciara - Goodies
Clash - The Clash
Cocoon - Where The Oceans End
Coldplay - A Rush Of Blood To The Head
Coldplay - Parachutes
Coldplay - Viva La Vida Or Death And All His Friends
Coldplay - X+Y
Coral - Singles Collection
Cortinas - For Fucks Sake Plymouth
Craig David - Born To Do It
Craig David - Greatest Hits
Craig Ogden - Summertime
Cranberries - Bualadh Bos: The Cranberries Live
Cranberries - Bury The Hatchet
Cranberries - Classic
Cranberries - Everybody Else Is Doing It
Cranberries - Stars: The Best Of The Cranberries 1992-2002
Cranberries - The Collection
Cranberries - Treasure Box
Cranberries - Wake Up And Smell The Coffee
Cream - BBC Sessions
Creedence Clearwater Revival - The Singles Collection
Crossfade - Crossfade
Cult - Pure Cult
Cults - Cults
Culture - Two Sevens Clash
Culture Club - Greatest Hits
Cure - Greatest Hits
Daft Punk - TRON: Legacy
Damned - Damned Damned Damned
Daniel Bedingfield - Gotta Get Thru This
Darwin Deez - Constellations (EP)
Darwin Deez - Darwin Deez
Daughtry - Leave This Town (Tour Edition)
Dave Alvin - Museum Of Heart
David Bowie - Aladdin Sane (30th Anniversary Remaster)
David Bowie - Diamond Dogs
David Bowie - Original John Peel Session: 23rd May 1972
David Guetta - Nothing But The Beat
David Guetta - One Love
Def Leppard - Mirror Ball Live And More
Del Shannon - Runaway: The Very Best Of Del Shannon
Demi Lovato - Dont Forget
Dennis Brown - Money In My Pocket: The Best Of
Depeche Mode - Remixes 2:81-11
Destiny's Child - Number Ones
Diana Vicker - Songs From The Tainted Cherry Tree
Dick Dale - Guitar Legend: The Very Best Of Dick Dale
Dionne Bromfield - Good For The Soul
Discharge - Free Speech For The Dumb: Anthology (Double Album)
Disorder - Disorder
DJ Shadow - The Outsider
Dolly Parton - Better Day
Donovan - Donovans Greatest Hits
Doris Day - My Heart
Drifters - Up On The Roof: The Very Best Of
Drums - Portamento
Dry The River - Night Owls
Duran Duran - Decade
Dusty Springfield - The Complete BBC Sessions
Dylan LeBlanc - Paupers Field
Earth, Wind And Fire - Boogie Wonderland: The Best Of
Echo And The Bunnymen - Songs To Learn And Sing (US Release)
Ed Sheeran - +
Eddy Arnold - After All These Years
Edgar Broughton Band - BBC Sessions 1970
Elbow - Build A Rocket Boys
Elbow - The Seldom Seen Kid
Ellie Goulding - Lights
Emily Osment - All The Right Wrongs
Eminem - Curtain Call (Explicit Version)
Emmy The Great - Virtue
Enrique Iglesias - Greatest Hits
Eurythmics - Greatest Hits
Eutopia - Memory Of You
Eva Cassidy - Simply Eva
Everly Brothers - Essential
Everything Everything - Man Alive
Example - Won't Go Quietly
Exploited - Dont Forget The Chaos
Fairport Convention - Live At The BBC
Faith Brothers - BBC Radio Session
Fearless Feat. Lois - Not Too Late
Feeling - Together We Were Made
Fight Like Apes - The Body Of Christ And The Legs Of Tina Turner
Findlay Brown - Seperated By The Sea
Fionn Regan - 100 Acres Of Sycamore
Fleet Foxes - Helplessness Blues
Fleetwood Mac - Rumours
Florence + The Machine - Lungs
Flyleaf - Flyleaf (UK Version)
Foo Fighters - Greatest Hits
Foo Fighters - Wasting Light
Foster The People - Torches
Frank Turner - England Keep My Bones
Frankie Valli And The Four Seasons - Working My Way Back To You
Free - Live At The BBC
Friendly Fires - Pala
Fun Boy Three - Fun Boy Three
Gabrielle - Rise
Game - The Red Album
Gappy Ranks - Put The Stereo On
Garbage - Absolute Garbage
GBH - Perfume And Piss
Generation X - Generation X
Genesis - Genesis
Genya Ravan - And I Mean It!
Gillian Welch - The Harrow And The Harvest
Gin Blossoms - Live In Concert
Gin Blossoms - New Miserable Experience
Glasvegas - Euphoric Heartbreak
Glee Cast - Glee: The Music Presents The Warblers
Glee Cast - Glee: The Music Volume 6
Glee Cast - Glee: The Music, Volume 2
Glee Cast - Glee: The Music, Volume 3 Showstoppers
Glee Cast - Glee: The Music, Volume 5
Glee Cast - The Music, Volume 1
Go West - The Best Of Go West
Go-Gos - Return To The Valley Of The Go-Gos
Green Day - American Idiot
Green Day - Awesome As ****
Grouplove - Grouplove
Guns N Roses - Greatest Hits
Guns N Roses - Live Era 87 - 93
Ha-ash - Mundos Opuestos
Haircut 100 - Pelican West Plus
Hard Fi - Killer Sounds
Hawkwind - Hawkwind: At The BBC 1972
Heart - Playlist: The Very Best Of Heart
Heavy Metal Kids - Kitsch
Hey Monday - Hold On Tight
Hollies - 20 Golden Greats
Horrible Crowes - Elsie
Horrors - Primary Colours
Hot Chocolate - Their Greatest Hits
House Of Love - Live At The BBC
Hugh Laurie - Let Them Talk
Human League - The Very Best Of The Human League
Hurts - Happiness
Husker Du - The Living End (Live)
I Am Kloot - BBC Radio 1 Peel Sessions
I Am Kloot - Sky At Night
Imelda May - Mayhem
In Flames - Sounds Of A Playground Fading
Incubus - If Not Now, When?
Inna - Hot
Institute - Distort Yourself
Iron Maiden - Death On The Road
Iron Maiden - From Fear To Eternity: The Best Of 1990-2010
Isley Brothers - Summer Breeze
Jackie Evancho - Dream With Me
Jaki Graham - Breaking Away
Jam - All Mod Cons
Jam - At The BBC (Digital Edition)
Jam - Dig The New Breed
Jam - Direction Reaction Creation
Jam - Extras
Jam - Gold (International Version)
Jam - Hit Pac - 5 Series
Jam - In The City
Jam - Live Jam
Jam - Lost And Found
Jam - Setting Sons
Jam - Snap (2006 Double CD)
Jam - Snap (2006 Triple CD)
Jam - Sound Affects
Jam - The Gift
Jam - The Jam Collection
Jam - The Jam Story
Jam - The Sound Of The Jam
Jam - The Very Best Of
Jam - This Is The Modern World
James Blunt - Back To Bedlam
James Blunt - Some Kind Of Trouble
Jan And Dean - Surf City And Other Swingin Cities
Jane Wiedlin - Jane Wiedlin
Jane Wiedlin - The Very Best Of Jane Wiedlin
Jay Z & Kanye West - Watch The Throne
Jedward - Victory
Jennifer Lopez - LOVE?
Jennifer Lopez - On The 6
Jennifer Lopez - Rebirth
Jenny And Johnny - I'm Having Fun Now
Jessie J - Who Are You
Jill Scott - The Light Of The Sun
Jimi Hendrix - Voodoo Child: The Jimi Hendrix Collection
Jimi Hendrix Experience - BBC Sessions
JLS - Outta This World
Joe Brown - Crazy Mixed Up Kid: The Complete Pye/Piccadilly Recordings (Box Set)
Joe McElderry - Classic
John Barrowman - Tonight's The Night
John Denver - The Ultimate Collection
John Martyn - BBC Live In Concert
John Martyn - In Session At The BBC
John Mayall - Live At The BBC
Johnny Tillotson - The Best Of Johnny Tillotson
Jon Fratelli - Psycho Jukebox
Joshua Radin - The Rock And The Tide
Joss Stone - LP1
Joy Division - Substance
Joy Formidable - The Big Roar
Judge Dread - Last Of The Skinheads
Justin Bieber - My World
Kaiser Chiefs - The Future Is Medieval
Kasabian - Velociraptor
Kasabian - West Ryder Pauper Lunatic Asylum
Kat DeLuna - 9 Lives
Kat DeLuna - 9 Lives
Kate Bush - Director's Cut
Kathy Kirby - The Best Of Kathy Kirby
Katy B - On A Mission
Katy Perry - One Of The Boys
Katy Perry - Teenage Dream
Ke$ha - Animal
Kelly Clarkson - All I Ever Wanted
Kelly Clarkson - Breakaway
Kelly Clarkson - My December
Kelly Clarkson - Thankful
Kenny Wayne Shepherd Band - How I Go
Keri Hilson - In A Perfect World
Kids In Glass Houses - In Gold Blood
Kings Of Leon - Because Of The Times
Kings Of Leon - Come Around Sundown
Kings Of Leon - Only By The Night
Kinks - The Singles Collection
Lady Gaga - Born This Way
Lady Gaga - The Fame Monster
Ladytron - Gravity The Seducer
Lang Lang - Liszt/My Piano Hero
Laura Marling - A Creature I Don't Know
Laura Marling - I Speak Because I Can
Laura Wright - The Last Rose
Laurel Aitken - Live At Club Ska
Led Zeppelin - Mothership
Lee Allen - Walkin With Mr Lee
Lenny Kravitz - Black And White America
Leona Lewis - Spirit
Levellers - Zeitgeist (Remastered)
Lil Wayne - Tha Carter IV
Limp Bizkit - Gold Cobra (Explicit Version)
Lindsay Lohan - Speak
Lindsey Buckingham - Seeds We Sow
Linkin Park - Hybrid Theory
Lissie - Why You Runnin
Little Dragon - Ritual Union
Live 8 Concert 2005
LMFAO - Sorry For Party Rocking
Ludovico Einaudi - Islands: Essential Einaudi
Lynyrd Skynyrd - The Essential Lynyrd Skynyd
Madeleine Peyroux - Standing On The Rooftop
Madness - Complete Madness
Madonna - Madonna
Mann - Mann's World
Marc Almond - A Virgin's Tale Volume 1+2
Marc Bolan And T.Rex - Best Of BBC Recordings
Mariah Carey - 1's
Mariah Carey - Butterfly
Mariah Carey - Charmbracelet
Mariah Carey - E=MC2
Mariah Carey - Glitter
Mariah Carey - Greatest Hits
Mariah Carey - Lovesongs
Mariah Carey - Mariah Carey/Emotions/Music Box
Mariah Carey - Memoirs Of An Imperfect Angel
Mariah Carey - Merry Christmas II You
Mariah Carey - Music Box
Mariah Carey - Rainbow
Mariah Carey - The Ballads
Mariah Carey - The Collection
Mariah Carey - The Emancipation Of Mimi
Mariah Carey - The Essential Mariah Carey
Mariah Carey - The Remixes
Mark Knopfler And Dire Straits - Private Investigations:The Best Of
Maroon 5 - Hands All Over
Marvin Gaye - Lets Get It On
Mary-Jess - Shine
Meat Loaf - Piece Of The Action: The Best Of Meat Loaf
Melanie C - The Sea
Metronomy - The English Riviera
Michael Buble - Call Me Irresponsible
Michael Buble - Crazy Love
Michael Jackson - Number Ones
Middle Of The Road - The Collection
Middle Of The Road - The Very Best Of Middle Of The Road
Mike Oldfield - Incantations
Miles Kane - Colour Of The Trap
Mission - The Mission At The BBC
Mogwai - Government Commissions (BBC Sessions 1996-2003)
Mona - Mona
Monty Python - The Ultimate Monty Python Rip Off
Motorhead - The World Is Yours
Mott The Hoople - The Hoople
Mumford And Sons - Sigh No More
Muse - Origin Of Symmetry
Muse - The Resistance
Muse Black Holes And Revelations
My Tiger My Timing - Arm Around You (Extended Mix)
Natasha Bedingfield - Unwritten
N-Dubz - Uncle B
Nebula - BBC Peel Sessions
Neil Young - A Treasure
Neneh Cherry - Raw Like Sushi
Nerina Pallot - Year Of The Wolf
Nero - Welcome Reality
New Model Army - BBC In Concert (5th November 1990)
New Order - Substance
New Order/Joy Division - TOTAL
New Seekers - The Very Best Of
Nickelback - Dark Horse
Nickelback - Silver Side Up
Nicki Minaj - Pink Friday (Deluxe Edition)
Nicki Minaj - Super Bass
Nicole Scherzinger - Killer Love
Nirvana - Nevermind
Nirvana - Sliver: The Best Of The Box
No Sleep Til Hammersmith (Expanded Edition)
Noah And The Whale - Last Night On Earth
Oasis - Definately Maybe
Oasis - The Document Interview
Ocean Colour Scene - BBC Sessions
Ok Go - Master The Treadmill With Ok Go
Olly Murs - Olly Murs
Opeth - Heritage
OST - Roger Daltrey - Mcvicar
Overtones - Good Ol Fashioned Love
Owl City - All Things Bright And Beautiful
Paloma Faith - Do You Want The Truth Or Something ...
Paolo Nutini - Sunny Side Up
Paolo Nutini - These Streets
Paramore - Riot!
Pat Boone - The Best Of Pat Boone
Patrick Wolf - Lupercalia
Paul Oakenfold - Bust A Groove DJ Sample Collection
Paul Simon - So Beautiful Or So What
Paul Weller - At The BBC
Paula Abdul - Greatest Hits Straight Up
Penetration - The Best Of Penetration
Period Pains - BBC Sessions
Peter Tosh - Legalize It
Peter, Paul And Mary - Rhino Hi-Five
Petula Clark - Then And Now: The Very Best Of Petula Clark
Pierces - The Pierces
Pierces - Thirteen Tales Of Love And Revenge
Pierces - You And I
Pink - Greatest Hits So Far
Pitbull - Planet Pit
Pixie Lott - Turn It Up
PJ Harvey - Let England Shake
Plan B - The Defamation of Strickland Banks
Port Isaac's Fishermans Friends - Port Isaac's Fisherman's Friends
Pretty Reckless - Light Me Up
Prodigy - Experience: Expanded (Remastered)
Prodigy - Live: Worlds On Fire
Pulp - Hits
Pussycat Dolls - PCD
Queen - Greatest Hits II (2011 Remaster)
Queen - Greatests Hits (2011 Remaster)
R.E.M. - Collapse Into Now
Raghu Dixit - Raghu Dixit
Randy Crawford - Best Of Randy Crawford
Rapture - In The Grace Of Your Love
REM - The Interview
REO Speedwagon - Take It On The Run
Ricky Martin - The Greatest Hits
Rihanna - Good Girl Gone Bad
Rihanna - Loud (Explicit Version)
Rihanna - Music Of The Sun
Rise To Remain - City Of Vultures
Robyn - Body Talk Pt.2
Rory Gallagher - Notes From San Francisco
Rose Royce - The Hits Of Rose Royce
Roy Orbison - The Monument Singles Collection
Rumer - Seasons Of My Soul
Rush - Moving Pictures
Ry Cooder - Pull Up Some Dust And Sit Down
Sade - The Ultimate Collection
Sam Cooke - 100 Greatest Hits
Sam Cooke - Love Songs (From Sam With Love)
Sam Cooke - Mr Wonderful
Sam Cooke - Sam Cooke Fifty Favourites
Sam Cooke - Swing Low/Cooke's Tour
Sam Cooke - The Early Hits Of Sam Cooke
Sam Cooke - Tribute To The Lady
Sam Cooke - Wonderful World: The Best Of
Saturdays - Chasing Lights
SBTRKT - SBTRKT
Script - Science And Faith
Scroobius Pip - Distraction
Searchers - All Time Greatest Hits
Searchers - The Definitive Pye Collection
Seasick Stevie - You Can't Teach An Old Dog New Tricks
Selena Gomez And The Scene - When The Sun Goes Down
Sex Pistols - Never Mind The Bollocks
Sex Pistols - The Great Rock & Roll Swindle
Shakira - Oral Fixation Vol 2
Shalamar - The Ultimate Best Of
Sham 69 - Tell Us The Truth
Sham 69 - Thats Life
Sharon Corr - Dream Of You
Shells - Doo Doo Doo Wop
Sick Puppies - Tri-Polar
Simon And Garfunkel - Bridge Over Troubled Water
Simple Plan - Get Your Heart On
Siouxsie And The Banshees - The Scream (Remastered And Expanded)
Skids - Sweet Suburbia - The Best Of The Skids
Skillet - Collide
Slade - The Very Best Of
Slits - Cut (Deluxe Edition)
Smiths - The Queen Is Dead
Snoop Dogg - Me & My Homies, Vol 3
Snow Patrol - Up To Know
Soft Cell - The Very Best Of
Soft Cell - The Very Best Of
Something That I Said - The Best Of The Ruts
Sonique - Hear My Cry
Sophie Ellis-Bextor - Make A Scene
Soul II Soul - Keep On Movin
Spandau Ballet - Heart Like A Sky
Steel Pulse - Handsworth Revolution
Stephen Malkmus & The Jicks - Mirror Traffic
Stereo MCs - Live At The BBC
Steve Harley And Cockney Rebel - Anthology
Steve Harley And Cockney Rebel - The Best Years Of Our Lives
Stevie Nicks - In Your Dreams
Stevie Nicks - Secret Love
Stevie Nicks - The Soundstage Sessions
Stevie Nicks - Trouble in Shangri-La
Stiff Little Fingers - Anthology
Stone Roses - Stone Roses
Stonefield - Through The Clover
Stranglers - No More Heroes
Streets - Original Pirate Material
Style Council - Greatest Hits (Digitally Remastered)
Suede - Coming Up (Remastered)
Superheavy - Superheavy
Surfaris - Surf Party: Best Of The Surfaris Live
Suzanne Vega - Retrospective
Symarip - Skinhead Moonstomp (Deluxe Edition)
Take That - Greatest Hits
Take That - Never Forget: The Ultimate Collection
Take That - Progress
Take That - Progressed
Taking Back Sunday - Taking Back Sunday
Tasmin Archer - Best Of
Tavares - The Best Of
Taylor Swift - Taylor Swift
Taylor Swift - Taylor Swift
Texas - The BBC Sessions
The Arrows - A's, B's And Rarities
The Horrors - Skying
The Kooks - Junk Of The Heart
The Rifles - Freedom Run
The Script - The Script
The Subways - Money And Celebrity
The Veronicas - Revenge Is Sweeter Tour
The Waterboys - An Appointment With Mr Yeats
Theory Of A Deadman - The Truth Is
Theory Of A Deadman - Theory Of A Deadman
Thompson Twins - Box Set
Three Days Grace - Three Days Grace
Tinariwen - Tassili
Tindersticks - The BBC Sessions
Tinie Tempah - Disc-Overy
TLC - CrazySexyCool
Tony Bennett - Duets II
Toots And The Maytals - Pressure Drop: The Definitive Collection
Top Of The Poppers - Top Of The Pops 10
Top Of The Poppers - Top Of The Pops 3
Top Of The Poppers - Top Of The Pops 48
Tori Amos - Night Of Hunters
T'Pau - Bridge Of Spies
T'Pau - Greatest Hits
T'Pau - Heart And Soul
T'Pau - Heart And Soul: The Very Best Of
T'Pau - Hits
T'Pau - Rage
T'Pau - The Promise
Trapt - Trapt
Trent Willmon - Trent Willmon
Trivium - In Waves
Two Door Cinema Club - Tourist History
U2 - U218 Singles
U2 - Under A Blood Red Sky
UB40 - The Best Of UB40 Volumes 1-2
Utah Saints - Utah Saints
Vaccines - Live From London, England
Vaccines - What Did You Expect From The Vaccines?
Various - 100 Doo Wop Hits
Various - 100% Pure Dubstep Mixed By DJ Hatcha
Various - 150 Rock N Roll Classics
Various - 1959 British Hit Parade Part 2 (Disc 1)
Various - 8-Track: Skinhead
Various - American Hot Wax
Various - At The Hop: 100 Classic Rock And Roll Tracks
Various - Best Of Doo Wop
Various - Bristol: The Punk Explosion
Various - Cops Make Good Targets
Various - Doo Wop
Various - Doo Wop Dance Hits
Various - Doo Wop Dynamite Vol 3
Various - Doo Wop Dynamite: Best Of Doo Wop
Various - Doo Wop Heaven
Various - Dubstep Essentials
Various - Euphoric R+B
Various - Glastonbury 2011
Various - Haunted House: The Skinhead Sevens Box Set
Various - Mods Mayday 1999
Various - Northern Soul
Various - Northern Soul 2008
Various - Northern Soul Survivors Volume 1
Various - Now 78
Various - Old Grey Whistle Test
Various - Original Hits Top Of The Pops
Various - Punk And Disorderly - Deluxe Edition
Various - R+B Club Classics
Various - Reggae Chartbusters Vol 1
Various - Skinhead Originals
Various - Soundtrack To Your Life 1957
Various - Stax Number Ones
Various - The Definitive 80s
Various - The Glory Stompers Soundtrack
Various - The Golden Age Of Northern Soul Vol.2
Various - The Golden Years Of Rock N Roll Vol 1
Various - The Greatest 50s Rock N Roll Collection Ever
Various - The Music From American Graffiti
Various - The Skinhead Generation: 54, 46 Was My Number
Various - The Story Of Trojan Records
Various - Thunderbirds Are Go: TV Themes For Grown Up Kids
Various - Top Of The Pops - Punk And New Wave
Various - Top Of The Pops Dance
Various - Top Of The Pops Eighties
Various - Top Of The Pops Eighties Pop
Various - Top Of The Pops Nineties
Various - Top Of The Pops One Hit Wonders
Various - Top Of The Pops Rock
Various - Top Of The Pops Sixties
Various - Top Of The Pops Top Tens
Various - Trance Nation From Ibiza And Miami, Vol 1
Various - Trojan Ska Revival Box Set
Various - Trojan Skinhead Collection
Various - Zonophone: The Punk Singles Collection
Velvets - Doo Wop Classics
Ventures - Hawaii Five-O
Vibrators - Pure Mania
Viva Brothers - Famous First Words
Wanted - The Wanted
Warpaint - Exquisite Corpse (EP)
Warpaint - The Fool
Washed Out - Within And Without
Weird Al Yankovic - Off The Deep End
Wham - The Final
Who - Quadrophenia (Remixed And Remastered Version)
Who - Whos Next (Remixed And Remastered Version)
Wiley - 100% Publishing
Will Young - Echoes
Will Young - The Hits
Wolf Gang - Suego Faults
Wombats - The Wombats Proudly Present... This Modern Glitch
Wonder Stuff - Live At The BBC
Wonderland - Not A Love Song (Introduction To Wonderland EP)
Wonderland - Wonderland
Worship Central - Spirit Break Out
X-Ray Spex - Germ Free Adolescents - The Anthology...
XTC - White Music
Yes - Fly From Here
Yes - The BBC Recordings 1969-1970
You Me At Six - Take Off Your Colours (Deluxe Version)
Yuck - Yuck
Zutons - Who Killed The Zutons?
John Peel Festive Fifty
John Peel's Festive Fifty 1976
John Peel's Festive Fifty 1978
John Peel's Festive Fifty 1979
John Peel's Festive Fifty 1980
John Peel's Festive Fifty 1981
John Peel's Festive Fifty 1982
John Peel's Festive Fifty 1983
John Peel's Festive Fifty 1984
John Peel's Festive Fifty 1985
John Peel's Festive Fifty 1986
John Peel's Festive Fifty 1987
John Peel's Festive Fifty 1988
John Peel's Festive Fifty 1989
John Peel's Festive Fifty 1990
John Peel's Festive Fifty 1991
John Peel's Festive Fifty 1992
John Peel's Festive Fifty 1993
John Peel's Festive Fifty 1994
John Peel's Festive Fifty 1995
John Peel's Festive Fifty 1996
John Peel's Festive Fifty 1997
John Peel's Festive Fifty 1998
John Peel's Festive Fifty 1999
John Peel's Festive Fifty 2000
John Peel's Festive Fifty 2001
John Peel's Festive Fifty 2002
John Peel's Festive Fifty 2003
Radio Stations
BBC Radio 1xtra
BBC Radio 6 Music
BBC Radio Berkshire
BBC Radio Bristol
BBC Radio Cambridgeshire
BBC Radio Cornwall
BBC Radio Coventry & Warwickshire
BBC Radio Cumbria
BBC Radio Derby
BBC Radio Devon
BBC Radio Essex
BBC Radio Five Live
BBC Radio Five Live Sports Extra
BBC Radio Four
BBC Radio Four Extra
BBC Radio Gloucestershire
BBC Radio Guernsey
BBC Radio Hereford & Worcester
BBC Radio Humberside
BBC Radio Jersey
BBC Radio Kent
BBC Radio Lancashire
BBC Radio Leeds
BBC Radio Leicester
BBC Radio Lincolnshire
BBC Radio London 94.9
BBC Radio Manchester
BBC Radio Merseyside
BBC Radio Newcastle
BBC Radio Norfolk
BBC Radio Northampton
BBC Radio Nottingham
BBC Radio One
BBC Radio Oxford
BBC Radio Sheffield
BBC Radio Shropshire
BBC Radio Solent
BBC Radio Somerset
BBC Radio Stoke
BBC Radio Suffolk
BBC Radio Surrey
BBC Radio Sussex
BBC Radio Tees
BBC Radio Three
BBC Radio Three Counties Radio
BBC Radio Two
BBC Radio Wiltshire
BBC Radio WM
BBC Radio York
Blog Archive
▼
2012
(270)
►
June
(1)
►
Jun 05
(1)
►
April
(2)
►
Apr 04
(1)
►
Apr 03
(1)
►
March
(35)
►
Mar 31
(1)
►
Mar 30
(1)
►
Mar 28
(5)
►
Mar 27
(1)
►
Mar 25
(4)
►
Mar 24
(1)
►
Mar 23
(12)
►
Mar 22
(1)
►
Mar 16
(1)
►
Mar 15
(3)
►
Mar 10
(1)
►
Mar 08
(2)
►
Mar 06
(1)
►
Mar 05
(1)
▼
February
(57)
▼
Feb 29
(5)
The Monkees
Tori Amos
American Music Club
American Flyer
America
►
Feb 28
(13)
►
Feb 27
(11)
►
Feb 26
(4)
►
Feb 24
(7)
►
Feb 13
(2)
►
Feb 11
(1)
►
Feb 09
(1)
►
Feb 08
(2)
►
Feb 06
(4)
►
Feb 04
(4)
►
Feb 03
(1)
►
Feb 02
(1)
►
Feb 01
(1)
►
January
(175)
►
Jan 30
(3)
►
Jan 29
(2)
►
Jan 28
(14)
►
Jan 27
(14)
►
Jan 26
(5)
►
Jan 23
(3)
►
Jan 22
(3)
►
Jan 21
(7)
►
Jan 20
(24)
►
Jan 19
(7)
►
Jan 18
(3)
►
Jan 17
(2)
►
Jan 16
(3)
►
Jan 14
(5)
►
Jan 13
(1)
►
Jan 12
(1)
►
Jan 09
(6)
►
Jan 08
(6)
►
Jan 07
(16)
►
Jan 06
(3)
►
Jan 05
(10)
►
Jan 04
(24)
►
Jan 03
(13)
►
2011
(1219)
►
December
(7)
►
Dec 31
(4)
►
Dec 27
(2)
►
Dec 02
(1)
►
November
(60)
►
Nov 19
(1)
►
Nov 18
(2)
►
Nov 17
(1)
►
Nov 16
(3)
►
Nov 15
(6)
►
Nov 14
(8)
►
Nov 13
(3)
►
Nov 12
(2)
►
Nov 10
(8)
►
Nov 09
(3)
►
Nov 08
(2)
►
Nov 07
(1)
►
Nov 06
(1)
►
Nov 05
(4)
►
Nov 04
(2)
►
Nov 03
(5)
►
Nov 02
(3)
►
Nov 01
(5)
►
October
(79)
►
Oct 31
(3)
►
Oct 29
(2)
►
Oct 28
(8)
►
Oct 27
(9)
►
Oct 24
(2)
►
Oct 23
(11)
►
Oct 22
(13)
►
Oct 20
(3)
►
Oct 19
(2)
►
Oct 18
(9)
►
Oct 13
(3)
►
Oct 12
(2)
►
Oct 11
(1)
►
Oct 09
(8)
►
Oct 08
(3)
►
September
(43)
►
Sep 28
(1)
►
Sep 26
(2)
►
Sep 23
(1)
►
Sep 22
(1)
►
Sep 20
(2)
►
Sep 19
(9)
►
Sep 18
(4)
►
Sep 16
(1)
►
Sep 12
(1)
►
Sep 10
(5)
►
Sep 07
(2)
►
Sep 06
(3)
►
Sep 05
(3)
►
Sep 04
(6)
►
Sep 03
(1)
►
Sep 01
(1)
►
August
(33)
►
Aug 28
(1)
►
Aug 25
(3)
►
Aug 24
(3)
►
Aug 23
(2)
►
Aug 21
(7)
►
Aug 20
(1)
►
Aug 14
(5)
►
Aug 10
(2)
►
Aug 07
(7)
►
Aug 06
(2)
►
July
(271)
►
Jul 31
(4)
►
Jul 29
(1)
►
Jul 28
(3)
►
Jul 27
(4)
►
Jul 24
(6)
►
Jul 23
(4)
►
Jul 20
(2)
►
Jul 18
(6)
►
Jul 17
(30)
►
Jul 16
(39)
►
Jul 15
(17)
►
Jul 14
(10)
►
Jul 13
(4)
►
Jul 12
(12)
►
Jul 11
(4)
►
Jul 10
(14)
►
Jul 09
(18)
►
Jul 08
(8)
►
Jul 07
(8)
►
Jul 06
(34)
►
Jul 05
(10)
►
Jul 04
(17)
►
Jul 03
(6)
►
Jul 02
(4)
►
Jul 01
(6)
►
June
(692)
►
Jun 30
(21)
►
Jun 29
(24)
►
Jun 28
(8)
►
Jun 27
(16)
►
Jun 26
(8)
►
Jun 25
(11)
►
Jun 24
(6)
►
Jun 23
(5)
►
Jun 22
(46)
►
Jun 21
(6)
►
Jun 20
(9)
►
Jun 19
(23)
►
Jun 18
(16)
►
Jun 17
(20)
►
Jun 16
(11)
►
Jun 15
(16)
►
Jun 14
(3)
►
Jun 13
(28)
►
Jun 12
(26)
►
Jun 11
(5)
►
Jun 10
(41)
►
Jun 09
(28)
►
Jun 08
(56)
►
Jun 07
(28)
►
Jun 06
(53)
►
Jun 05
(29)
►
Jun 04
(46)
►
Jun 03
(34)
►
Jun 02
(29)
►
Jun 01
(40)
►
May
(34)
►
May 31
(34)
Ethereal template. Template images by
rami_ba . Powered by
Blogger .