August | 2010 | Not a Cosplayer
Not a Cosplayer
fictional and geek culture fashion irl
Main menu
Skip to content
Home About Author Resources Shopping Contact
Monthly Archives:
August 2010
Linkage: Suits
Posted on
19/08/2010
by
Connie
Usually I wouldn’t create a new post for a new resource, but this link has stuff I wanted to write about but after reading it I decided there was no way I could do a better job and squeeze in that much content.
I don’t believe in doubling up labour so
I bring you this Livejournal post
which will probably teach you more about suits than you ever thought possible to know about suits. And yet, there’s more.
The post is made for Inception fans, but most of the info is pretty general and it has pretty pictures to illustrate different cuts and styles. Happy reading!
Posted in
admin
|
Tagged
conservative ,
it are fact
|
Leave a comment
Wardrobe Spotlight – Hats Part 2
Posted on
16/08/2010
by
Connie
If you’re a little lost you might like to read this post in conjunction with
Hats Part 1
and
DIY Fascinators . This post will give you ideas on how to decorate a plain base hat. I see a lot of people on Etsy who basically just sell pre-bought decorated hats but in my opinion it’s better to buy a better quality plain hat and decorate it yourself with stuff from around the house or things you can buy cheap from the craft store.
I apologise for so many pictures of my face, but hats don’t look quite right unless someone is wearing them.
Your Kit
Badges and Brooches
Ribbon
Scarves and Bandannas
Tarot and/or Playing Cards
Fabric flowers.
Russian Veiling (not pictured here, see below)
Hat of your choice.
Soft Hats
These are the hats that don’t keep shape so I wouldn’t attach anything too fancy. A brooch is probably the extent of what you want to add although I’ve also added some ribbon and a short feather. It gives a sort of girl-guide look, but it can pretty cute if you’re into that sort of thing. You can put the brooch in the middle but if you ask me it looks a bit strange on a beret. It looks fine on a cap with a brim however (see below).
Soft and Structured Hats
These hats are made out of soft materials but have a fixed shape. This means you can stick pins into them and if you do it carefully it won’t ruin the hat. More badges and pins will give a kind of hipster-punk look whereas a single brooch will get you a bit more of a military look on the cap. Try experimenting with different button sizes. I personally really like the look of the smaller ones but you can mix and match.
Hats like fedoras have a brim that goes all the way around which means that the crown is pretty stable and the hat looks more balanced on a 360 degree view so you can stick things on the side and around the brim as well. (Compare to a cap where the brim makes the hat front-heavy and it wouldn’t look balanced if you added items anywhere else.)
Hard hats
You probably don’t want to be sticking things like pins into bowlers and top hats so you need some ribbon or a scarf to tie around the brim in order to tuck things under or pin things on.  Think about balance and height levels. While I have items on the back, right side and front of the hat below the highest items are on the side and back. The front brooch/cameo is small and level to the scarf band so it isn’t a major sticking point. At the most you want two built-up areas (and probably not the combination of front & back, and side & side since in this case asymmetry is more pleasing to the eye.)
Add a Veil
What I also see a lot is people selling goth top hats with veils at silly prices. Adding a veil to a top hat is really easy and you can get
Russian veiling on Etsy
for about $3/yard (approx 90cm) or at your local craft store. You shouldn’t need much more than that and the piece below is only about 20cm wide.
Start off by creating some pleats and tacking them together with safety pins. How many you want is up to you but the more you add the more the veil will puff out. I used four pleats.
Now you should have a trapezoid shape where the top is longer than the bottom. We actually want the veil to create a rounded effect so we don’t want to see the corners at the bottom. Take each bottom corner and pin it together with the outer pleat corner at the top.
Your veiling should look a bit like this now:
If you look inside the brim of your hat there should be some lining around the crown that you can pin this onto. The safety pins should be invisible inside your hat. I personally like having the veil come just under my eyes but you can experiment with what looks best on you. Since the veiling is pinned together and not glued on you can muck about with this and attach it onto different hats. Some people like attaching the veiling to the outside of the hat on the brim at well – you can pin it onto the inside of a scarf or bandanna and hid the safety pins that way. You might need a longer length of veiling however.
Fascinators
Made a fascinator lately?
Great! (You can try positioning it at the front and the back of your hat also.)
As always let me know if you had any problems with this post! Hopefully this has inspired you to experiment with sprucing up an old hat or two with stuff you should have around the house. Here’s some other objects you might think about incorporating too: watch faces, brass or metal stampings, wooden shapes, wire, pearls, ribbon rosettes, lace, origami, leather cord, beads and other shiny things.
FYI, the rabbit cameo I am wearing here is new and from
The Little Shop Of (Handmade) . Unfortunately they’ve sold out of those designs as far as I know but they have plenty of other awesome items at really reasonable prices.
Posted in
accessories ,
diy ,
safety pins ,
wardrobe spotlight
|
Tagged
accessories ,
headgear
|
1 Comment
Some stats on this blog
Posted on
16/08/2010
by
Connie
This week’s post is late but it’s coming asap. I’m in the midst of writing it up now and it should go up either tonight or tomorrow. Meanwhile I’ve found the blog stats to be pretty interesting.
Before my
Arthur /Inception post the most popular post here by far was my
Noodle /Gorillaz one.
Arthur’s post is getting about 250 hits per week at the moment.
Noodle’s post is getting about 130 hits per week.
The most common terms searched and linked to this blog is “arthur inception”. When googling this the blog is linked sixth on the first page.
Second most common terms are “gorillaz noodle”. When googling this blog is linked fifth on the fourth page.
There are spikes in traffic on the days I post but there are also weird random spikes in traffic for no reason. On average I get about 70-80 views per day. On new post days I get about 150-180 views.
The point? I love comments and feedback. I think I’m hitting the right note with my posts but I am always very
welcome to suggestions
about outfits or different content you’d like to see. If there’s an outfit you’d desperately like me to tackle or even something you’d like for me to go into more detail with I am totally at your mercy.
Again, thank you all for reading. I love you guys.
Posted in
admin
|
Leave a comment
Cyndi Lauper
Posted on
09/08/2010
by
Connie
Yes, that missed week was totally deliberate and required in order for you all to properly contemplate and appreciate Joseph Gordon-Levitt in a suit. It was not because of my failure to write up this post at all!
After that automatic moment of derision after being invited to an eighties costume party, I realised the eighties weren’t really all bad. The eighties had Bowie, Joan Jett, MacGyver and all sorts of good music and things and
even fashion . Even I who advocates the wear-whatever-the-hell-you-want system have engaged in the popular pasttime of eighties fashion bashing. Yet the eighties is one decade epitomises the wear-whatever-the-hell-you-want doctrine and if I were honest with myself, I’d probably be rockin’ Cyndi Lauper’s look had I been fashion-conscious between my birth in 1987 and the end of the decade (also if I hadn’t been born in a Communist country but anyhow…).
I got my reference pictures from
this website , but I set out to get that iconic “ Girl Just Wanna Have Fun ” sort of look. Lauper usually wears dresses with a fitted bodice that fan out from the waist, and then accessorises the hell out of them.
I have this tendency to fling everything out of my drawers when I’m constructing an outfit. In this case I was looking for 80’s colour, patterns and fabric: shiny, synthetic, neon-bright, clashy patterns. (As an aside, dressing like Cyndi Lauper would be very similar to dressing for
Delirium .)
The Dress/Skirt
I couldn’t find a suitable dress or skirt to serve as the base layer so I basically had to style one from a silk wrap skirt I own. Because there are so many layers you want to the topmost layer to be the lightest and to also be the largest in terms of puff. As the layers go down they can be heavier and more fitted, but if you actually want them to be visible they’ll also need to be a bit longer than the one previous.
If you have a tulle tu-tu or something like that you should use it as a bottom layer to puff everything on top of it up a bit more. However keep in mind that not all skirts were made to be puffed; you should look for skirts that are gathered or pleated at the waistband and billow out. This may require a lot of experimentation – a lot of the skirts I tried on really didn’t work when layered on top of others.
Due to the nature of the wrap skirt I couldn’t get the fitted bodice look I wanted on the top so I ended up wearing an old sparkly tube top over everything else.
Accessories, Hair and Makeup
If you look at pictures of Lauper you’ll see that her jewellery is part and parcel of the look. I basically pulled out every single piece of loud, colourful and shiny jewellery I have and tried them on together without too much problem.
Look for long beaded necklaces of varying lengths. If there isn’t enough variation then you can wind some double around your neck.
The bracelets and bangles need to be chunky enough to jut out from the wrist. She also frequently wears fingerless and fishnet gloves as in the first picture of this post.
Before I left the house I backcombed my hair to get it sort of big and messy. I decided to go all out and added make up too – different coloured eyeshadow. I forgot the lipstick though, but if I hadn’t I’d go for an orange-red.
The Outfit
The Breakdown:
Two-layered silk wrap skirt – $30 eBay
Black tulle skirt
– ~$40 Wildilocks (You can’t really see it here but it’s giving the bottom a bit more volume)
Singlet top – ~$10, pretty generic
Tube top – ~$10, also pretty generic
Gold sash – Stolen from Arts Ball a few years ago
;)
Rainbow scarf – This was my mother’s.
Black granny wrap – ~$3 thrifted.
Lots of miscellaneous jewellery I had lying around the house. No idea how much it’d cost together.
Fingerless opera gloves – ~$5 from a discount store. They didn’t start off fingerless
:)
Tony Bianco boots – $100
Purple tights – ~$10
Odd socks – ~$5?
Top hat – $55 from Wildilocks. A bit more Boy George if you ask me.
I’m not sure to what extent I really got the look right or even if I looked very 80’s. On the night of the party I think someone described me as “carnival”. The problem was that I didn’t have a lot of the right fabrics, colours and patterns to dress the era properly.
If I went back I’d probably get  a lot more of the fishnet happening and try adding more layers to the dress-skirt-thing I had on.
Posted in
event ,
free-form ,
media: music ,
retro
|
Tagged
colour ,
layers
|
1 Comment
Recent Posts
Revisited: Unisex Scarf Collar Cravat Bandanna NeckThing
Splicer (Bioshock)
I heart you, readers
London Alice (Alice: Madness Returns)
The State of This Blog
Friendly Fire
Dystopian Treasures
My PSP's Not Pink
Steampunkerie
Style Therapy
The Plaid Babushka
Categories
acquisitions
freebies
pre-loved
shiny and new
admin
diy
glue
needle and thread
safety pins
scissors
event
free-form
creatures
retro
steampunk
media: book
media: comic
media: film
media: game
media: music
media: tv
outfit dump
wardrobe spotlight
accessories
accessories
bag
bodice or corset
button-up shirt
casual
colour
conservative
drawn and animated
dress
headgear
hood
it are fact
jacket
layers
long sleeves
materialism
militaristic
musical
neo-victorian
online
pants
photospam
post-apocalyptic
readers
shorts
short sleeve top
skirt
trying to be practical
upcycling
vest
Blog at WordPress.com .
|
The Rusty Grunge Theme .
Not a Cosplayer
Create a free website or blog at WordPress.com .
The Rusty Grunge Theme .
Follow
Follow “Not a Cosplayer”
Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.
Build a website with WordPress.com
Add your thoughts here... (optional)
Post to
Cancel