Erin et Vivien (for the most stylish kids since Suri Cruise) | The Reluctant Stylista
About
The Reluctant Stylista is a fashion and lifestyle blog written by Alex Lapa--the tomboy who suddenly discovered the joys and perks of dressing up. Original illustrations by
Paolo Lazatin . Questions? Thoughts? You can
contact me here .
Subscribe via email:
What We Love!
We won!
The Reluctant Stylista is proud to be the winner for two categories at The Philippine Blog Awards 2010: Best Beauty and Fashion Blog and Best Blog Design.
Thank you to all who rooted for us!
Thank you to everyone who voted, we reached 2nd place at
The Parisian Bloggers' Challenge !
Recent Comments
Loading...
Browse Tags
accessories ,
actors ,
adidas ,
art ,
bazaar ,
best products ,
body & bath ,
capoeira ,
celebrity ,
contests ,
designer ,
designers ,
events ,
fashion ,
giveaways ,
hair care ,
hair styling ,
health-and-fitness ,
kikay kit ,
make up ,
malls ,
models ,
organic ,
outfit of the day ,
people ,
philippine fashion ,
philippine fashion week ,
photography ,
press release ,
product reviews ,
random thoughts ,
rtw ,
salons ,
shoes ,
shopping ,
skin care ,
sports ,
street fashion ,
styling ,
the philippine online chronicles ,
travel ,
tv ,
undercut ,
work ,
writing
Networks and Affiliates
+Fashion & Styling
+Product Reviews
+About
+Archives
+Links
Nov
23
2010
Erin et Vivien (for the most stylish kids since Suri Cruise)
Tags:
fashion ,
shopping
Sometimes, as in my case, appreciation for pretty, frilly things come late in the game.  This is where baby girls–whether they be your little sister, niece, daughter or goddaughter–come in as your adorable, real life dolls.  They can pull off anything, and nothing is too cute.  You only have a few more years to play dress up with them until they start deciding on their own (I think I remember snubbing my nose at the ruffled green dress my mom was pushing me to wear at age 6).  Thank goodness for fashionable aunties and moms who have the foresight to take plenty of pictures of kids in cute baby gear like
Erin et Vivien
because I’m sure they’ll be thankful for them in the future.
Erin et Vivien
is actually a brainchild of my cousins
Mira
(a regular Martha Stewart) and
Virna
(who often treats her little nieces and nephew like paper dolls).  Ate Mira is a genius at crafting these adorable tutus.  Looking at them, I wish I were a kid again…or that they made them in my size, because you know, I might go as
Delirium
next Halloween if they did.  Well, the tutus are customizable, so I think they do, but of course they’re specialized for little girls!
From their website:
“Our tutus are very fluffy and are flame-retardant. We have different
materials and colors to choose from all of which are high-quality,
imported materials. We have the soft, stretchy sweet looking everyday
tulle and the frosted, shimmery (may be used for costume parties) tulle.
“ It’s customizable up to 4 colors and fits
infants from 0-8 years old (we can also do a bigger size for bigger kids
or even adults).
Yes, we ship worldwide! Shipping charges apply . “
Check out my cute nieces in their namesake (would you believe these two girls are
TWINS??
They’re so opposite that they don’t even look like sisters, haha):
Dashie (Dashielle Vivien) wearing Lia
Callie (Callista Erin) wearing Cheri
Dashielle: orange, fuchsia, ivory
Danielle: frosted brown and peach
Kaiea: pink and lavender
Lia: purple, yellow, fuchsia
Callista: turquoise, lavendar, pink
(my personal favorite, but maybe cos it reminds me of Lisa Frank stickers I used to collect when I was a kid)
Other colors available:
Pink Punkstar – Hot Pink + Black + Ivory
Citrusy – Orange + Lime + Yellow
Rainbow Spark – Turquiose + Hot Pink + Yellow + Violet
Erin et Vivien
also makes the cutest baby bloomers (diaper covers) and kimono shoes which were available at their first bazaar.  I don’t know when they will hold a bazaar again, and it’s not up at their website yet, but you can PM them in their
Facebook page
or text inquiries and orders at
+63 917-7944525 .  I love the patterns for the kimono shoes, they remind me of those heels in Forever 21 I never got to buy.
So if you don’t have Christmas gifts or outfits for your favorite little girls yet, you know where to look.  Fortunately for international readers, they ship worldwide.  Just visit their
website
to order.  For local customers,
Erin et Vivien
can also organize
ballerina princesse
themed parties for your girls.
Related posts: A Guide to Shopping for Investment Pieces A Freeway tribute to Ramon Valera Power Sale Bazaar Tickets Giveaway! Share this: Share Facebook StumbleUpon Email
View the Post Gallery:
Tags:
fashion ,
shopping
3 Responses to “Erin et Vivien (for the most stylish kids since Suri Cruise)”
Smarla
says:
November 23, 2010 at 11:20 am
they look so adorable in those clothes! i wouldn’t have guessed that they were sisters
Reply
Alex
says:
November 23, 2010 at 11:30 am
I know! They’re so cute that I wish I had a little niece to dress up, but I only have godsons
Looking at Callie and Dashie amuses me because one is dark, chubby and bubbly while the other is light, slim and quieter. It’s true they don’t look like sisters, let alone twins!
Reply
Bea
says:
November 23, 2010 at 11:23 am
What I super love about Mia’s babies is that they’re like a reflection of Mira and the rest of her sisters. Haha! United Colors of Benetton — none of them look alike. They don’t even seem to look like they came from the same racial spectrum! (I remember in Japanese class, our sensei would always think that Mira is my sister and that Virna is our cousin. Or they’d ask if Mira and Virna’s parents are the same. Nye!)
The twins are adoooooorable! I want to bite them. Biiiiiiite!
Reply
Trackbacks/Pingbacks
Erin et Vivien tutus and baby bloomers featured on the Reluctant Stylista fashion blog
November 23, 2010 at 1:15 pm
[...] this article, our Reluctant Stylista gushes as to how these kinds of clothing are stylish yet cute enough for [...]
Leave a Reply
Click here to cancel reply.
Name (required)
Mail (will not be published)
Website
Notify me of followup comments via e-mail
Notify me of follow-up comments by email.
Notify me of new posts by email.
2010 reluctantstylista.com all rights reserved.
Send to Email Address
Your Name
Your Email Address
Cancel
Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.