Inkdrops 006 – Endless Commission – Zoetica Ebb // Biorequiem.com
Latest
About Zo
Shop
Blog
Art
Photography
Projects
Hire Me!
Contact
Newsletter
Inkdrops 006 – Endless Commission
November 18, 2009
Inkdrops
12 comments
I think I might be typing this from beyond the grave. Today I:
Woke up, evaluated condition
Realized I was, possibly, even more sick than yesterday [ sweet!]
Found a way to cope by slumping over a desk, refusing to speak, and drawing from 9am to 2pm
Made the best garlic mashed potatoes I’ve ever made. Coincidentally, the first time I ever made garlic mashed potatoes.
Retreated back to bed, where we watched
Inglorious Basterds
That’s all I got. Except this – a sneaky peek at the commission I managed to start and finish today. The client asked me to draw a figure reminiscent of a blend between Neil Gaiman’s
Death
and
Delirium . Could any request have been more appropriate, considering my present state? Probably not. I’ll post the entire thing once she’s safely in his hands.
And also this – what appears to be the only photo of me with Josh, Ales and Kevin from Bats and Cats Masquerade, courtesy of
Amy .
Because it’s funny and you know it.
SLUMP.
Previous Post
Next Post
About
Zoetica Ebb
Artist, photographer and writer, dedicated to proving that life is as beautiful as we make it.
12 Comments
Patrick
November 18, 2009 at 8:28 PM /
I watched Inglorious Basterds for the first time before bed last night. What a fun movie. Great drawing as usual, hope you start feeling better soon.
Arie
November 18, 2009 at 8:54 PM /
can’t wait to see the full drawing
i been feeling like crap these days too
hope you feel better
Alicia
November 18, 2009 at 9:05 PM /
Supersick.
Can’t wait to see the whole thing.
kate
November 19, 2009 at 1:28 AM /
your ink work is IMPECCABLE!
get well soon xo
Paige
November 19, 2009 at 11:45 AM /
you always draw cute tits and cooters; and i mean that in the most appropriate way possible
Morgan
November 19, 2009 at 2:44 PM /
When I had the awful H1N1 I got better with a combination of swallowing raw garlic and drinking kombucha. ( http://synergydrinks.com ) Also if there is a Chinese herb shop anywhere down there you should check it out. The lady at the one down the street from me always has something cheap and easy that makes me feel a million times better!
Morgan
November 19, 2009 at 3:02 PM /
By the way, how much do you charge for commissions? I may ask you to do a portrait of me. I need a more creative image of myself for my website, and I don’t feel that I photograph well.
CThomasHand
November 19, 2009 at 4:06 PM /
I can’t wait to see the finished product.
From what is shown here you managed a fantastic job even while being sick.
~smirks~ I did not quite realize the appropriateness of my request.
Probably a good thing Despair and Destruction were not suggested.
Tequila
November 20, 2009 at 10:44 AM /
Do get better soon! I’m sure you’re getting remedies and advice left and right…all that worked for me was rest. Lots and lots of rest. Mummy like rest :P
The commission is coming along quite nice from that detail alone. My hats off…all I can do when sick is write hallucinatory emails to people.
CThomasHand
December 7, 2009 at 3:00 PM /
Received the final product and it is quite excellent.
I hope she posts it soon.
Pingback:
Inkdrops 007 – The Endless Commission Now Available
O. Candelabra
December 14, 2009 at 10:33 PM /
Zo, I’m sure you get this kind of question an awful lot, but I was really struck by your eyeglasses.
I’m in the market and would love a suggestion (I live in L.A.).
I also concur with the cute tits and cooters comment.
O.
Leave a Reply
Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published.
Required fields are marked
*
Name
*
Email
*
Website
Comment
Search
Who is Zo?
I’m a Moscow-born, LA-raised artist, photographer and writer, dedicated to proving that life is as beautiful as we make it.
Read more , or
get in touch .
Techno renaissance internet goddess extraordinaire
- Lou O'Bedlam
The perfect example of someone being as weird as they want to be, working as hard as possible and truly Living
- Morbid Fashion
Newsletter
Email Address
Preferred Format
HTML
Text
Featured Shop Item
Herbarium Deluxe Print Set
Categories
BLUSH RESPONSE
DESIGN
INKDROPS
OILSLICKS
PHOTO FLURRY
STYLE DISPATCH
TRAVEL
Recent Comments Fancy Nancy
on
All I want for Christmas is Sex. Zoetica Ebb
on
Strange Encounters – Alien Botany Lands Again Zoetica Ebb
on
Blush Response 002 – Top 3 Hair Color Questions, Answered! Zoetica Ebb
on
In My Ear: the myspace perv-out sessions Vanessa
on
Blush Response 002 – Top 3 Hair Color Questions, Answered!
© 2014 Zoetica Ebb // Biorequiem.com. All rights reserved.
Hosted by
SonicHaus .