Delirium Diagnosis
Home
Thought Leaders Series
Insights from Industry Series
MediKnowledge Series
Research White Papers
News Feed
News A-Z
Health A-Z
Drugs A-Z
Clinical & Diagnostics
Life Science & Laboratory
Consumer Products
About
Meet the Team
Terms and Conditions
Medical News 'Tweets'
LIFE SCIENCES & MEDICINE
October 30, 2015
Other search tools: Drugs | Health | News
Newsletters
Contact Us
Advertisement
Trending Stories Sexual activity causes physiological changes in the body that increase women's chances of getting pregnant Loyola gastroenterologist provides tips to IBS patients for healthy living Neuroscientists reveal the brain malady responsible for tinnitus, chronic pain Single drop of blood in the brain can activate autoimmune response akin to multiple sclerosis Spatial grid pattern in brain region is altered in young adults with Alzheimer's risk Study shows how dietary fatty acids affect development and progression of multiple sclerosis
Advertisement Latest News Routine clinical features may aid BVFTD diagnostic accuracy ‘Room for improvement’ in post-thrombolysis haemorrhage management Low-dose occupational radiation exposure increases solid cancer risk Very long-term outcomes of childhood onset epilepsy reported Talyst to exhibit pharmacy automation and medication management products at HealthAchieve Lack of adequate sleep can interfere with fundamental cellular process
Delirium Diagnosis
By
Sally Robertson , BSc
Delirium refers to a disturbed mental state that causes confusion and decreased awareness of a person’s environment. It often has a sudden onset, but usually resolves when the underlying cause is treated. Some examples of contributing factors include the following:
Older age
Memory problems
Terminal illness
Recent surgery
Poor hearing or eyesight
Illness that affects the brain such as head injury or stroke
Drug or alcohol abuse
The use of certain medications
Also known of as “ acute confusional state ,” delirium can be a frightening condition for both the sufferer and those around them.
Diagnosis
A doctor will diagnose delirium based on signs and symptoms of the condition. These signs and symptoms often develop over a short space of time, within a few hours or days. They may also come and go throughout the day, meaning there may be periods where there is no indication of delirium. Some of the main signs and symptoms of delirium are described below.
Reduced awareness of surroundings
Some signs that a person is experiencing reduced awareness of their environment include:
Inability to concentrate on one topic
Being concerned with one idea and avoiding conversation or questions
Short attention span
Getting distracted by insignificant things
Withdrawal from activities
Cognitive impairment
Signs that a person’s thinking skills may have been affected include:
Reduced memory ability
Poor understanding of speech
Speaking nonsense or rambling
Difficulty speaking
Disorientation over location, who people are or the time of day
Difficulty reading, writing or recalling words
Changes in behavior
Someone may have developed behavioral changes if they:
Hallucinate
Experience sleep disturbances
Become agitated, irritable or restless
Experience strong emotions such as anxiety, anger or fear
Delirium and dementia
Delirium and dementia can present with similar symptoms and any input from friends, family members or caregivers regarding any changes in a person’s thinking, behavior and abilities can be very helpful to a doctor in making an accurate diagnosis. Some ways in which a doctor can tell the difference between delirium and dementia are described below.
Attention span – In cases of delirium, a person is often unable to stay focused, while people are generally alert during the initial stages of dementia.
Onset – Delirium has a short onset, occurring within a few hours or days, while dementia is a slowly progressing disease that first presents with only minor symptoms.
Fluctuation in symptoms – Delirium symptoms often fluctuate, coming and going throughout the day, while in dementia, memory and thinking skills remain fairly constant.
Tests
Some of the tests a doctor will use to identify symptoms of delirium are described below.
Mental status assessment
- A doctor may try to assess mental awareness, cognitive ability and attention informally though conversation or by using checklists designed to screen a patient’s mental state.
Physical examination
- A physical examination of the patient can be used to provide clues about any underlying conditions causing the delirium. The exam may reveal an infection, dehydration or alcohol withdrawal, for example.
Neurological examination
- An examination of coordination, nervous reflexes, vision and balance can help a doctor identify whether a stroke or other neurological problem has occurred.
Other tests
- A blood, urine or other diagnostic test may also help provide important clues about what might be causing the delirium.
Treatment
Once delirium has been diagnosed, it can only be treated once the cause is also diagnosed. If the cause is an infection, for example, antibiotics can be prescribed to resolve the problem. Once the cause has been identified, delirium often gets better quickly, within a couple of days or weeks.
Sources
www.nhs.uk/.../Delirium.pdf
www.guysandstthomas.nhs.uk/.../...or-patients-relatives-and-carers.pdf
http://www.patientsafetyfirst.nhs.uk/ashx/
http://www.nice.org.uk/nicemedia/live/13060/49909/49909.pdf
psychiatry.stanford.edu/.../Maldonado&
http://www.rcpsych.ac.uk/healthadvice/problemsdisorders/delirium.aspx
www.mayoclinic.org/.../con-20033982
www.merckmanuals.com/.../delirium.html
Further Reading Delirium - What is Delirium? Delirium Causes Delirium Treatments Delirium Symptoms
Last Updated: Jan 14, 2015
Read in
| English |
Español
|
Français
|
Deutsch
|
Português
|
Italiano
|
日本語
|
한국어
|
简体中文
|
繁體中文
|
Nederlands
|
Русский
|
Svenska
|
Polski
Comments
The opinions expressed here are the views of the writer and do not necessarily reflect the views and opinions of News-Medical.Net.
Cancel reply to comment
Post a new comment
Login
(Logout)
Post
News A to Z
Drugs A to Z
Health A to Z
Clinical & Diagnostics
Life Science & Laboratory
Consumer Products
News Archive
Medical News Tweets
Information
Subscribe
News-Medical.net - An AZoNetwork Site
Owned and Operated by AZoM.com Limited Copyright 2000-2015
This site complies with the
HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information:
verify here.
News-Medical.Net provides this medical information service in accordance
with these
terms and conditions .
Please note that medical information found
on this website is designed to support, not to replace the relationship
between patient and physician/doctor and the medical advice they may provide.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
Find out more here .