Delirium Causes
Home
Thought Leaders Series
Insights from Industry Series
MediKnowledge Series
Research White Papers
News Feed
News A-Z
Health A-Z
Drugs A-Z
Clinical & Diagnostics
Life Science & Laboratory
Consumer Products
About
Meet the Team
Terms and Conditions
Medical News 'Tweets'
LIFE SCIENCES & MEDICINE
October 30, 2015
Other search tools: Drugs | Health | News
Newsletters
Contact Us
Advertisement
Trending Stories Sexual activity causes physiological changes in the body that increase women's chances of getting pregnant Loyola gastroenterologist provides tips to IBS patients for healthy living Neuroscientists reveal the brain malady responsible for tinnitus, chronic pain Single drop of blood in the brain can activate autoimmune response akin to multiple sclerosis Spatial grid pattern in brain region is altered in young adults with Alzheimer's risk Study shows how dietary fatty acids affect development and progression of multiple sclerosis
Advertisement Latest News Routine clinical features may aid BVFTD diagnostic accuracy ‘Room for improvement’ in post-thrombolysis haemorrhage management Low-dose occupational radiation exposure increases solid cancer risk Very long-term outcomes of childhood onset epilepsy reported Talyst to exhibit pharmacy automation and medication management products at HealthAchieve Lack of adequate sleep can interfere with fundamental cellular process
Delirium Causes
By
Sally Robertson , BSc
Delirium is a state of mental confusion that can occur as a result of illness, surgery or with the use of some medications or drugs of abuse. The syndrome is difficult to define exactly, but involves disorder of perception, thought and awareness.
The symptoms of delirium are often acute and intermittent and the syndrome is also referred to as “ acute confusional state .” Delirium is usually temporary and reverses when the problem causing it is resolved, but it can still be very frightening for people who experience it, as well as for those around them.
Delirium occurs in around 15 to 20% of all hospital admissions and is the most common reason for hospitalization of the elderly. The incidence of delirium increases with age, with the syndrome diagnosed in 0.4% of those aged between 18 and 55 years; 1.1% of those aged between 55 and 85 years and 13.6% in those older than 85 years.
Some of the problems people experience when they develop delirium include the following:
Reduced awareness of surroundings
Inability to follow conversation and speak clearly
Auditory hallucination
Visual hallucination
Sleeping during the day but wakefulness at night
Vivid, frightening dreams that sometimes continue once awake
Paranoia that people are trying to harm them
Agitation and restlessness
Mood swings that vary between anxiety, depression, irritability and fear
Causes
Delirium is common in patients who have undergone surgery and in patients in nursing homes or intensive care units. When the syndrome affects younger people, it is usually caused by the use of drugs or a life-threatening systemic illness.
Often, conditions that cause delirium are those that prevent oxygen or other important substances from reaching the brain. The most common causes of delirium are dehydration, infection and the use of drugs, especially psychoactive drugs, anticholinergics and opioids. Other precipitating factors include shock, anemia, hypoxia, under nutrition, sleep deprivation and emotional stress. Liver or kidney disease that has been overlooked can also lead to drug toxicity and delirium through impaired metabolism and reduced clearance of a drug that had previously been well tolerated.
Recent exposure to anesthesia also increases the risk of delirium developing, particularly in cases of prolonged exposure or when anticholinergics are administered during an operation. Pain and the use of opiate analgesics post-surgery can also increase the delirium risk. The risk of delirium is especially high among elderly ICU patients.
The patient groups most commonly affected by dementia include the following:
Critically ill patients
Elderly patients
Those with memory problems or dementia
Those who have had recent major surgery
Those with poor hearing or vision
Stroke patients or those with brain injury or infection
Those with terminal illness
Alcoholics
Many medical conditions can cause delirium and examples of these are listed below. In around 10 to 20% of patients, however, no cause can be identified.
Neurological causes
Cerebrovascular disorders :
ischemic stroke, hemorrhagic stroke, transient ischemic attack
Trauma :
traumatic brain injury and subdural hematoma
Migraine :
confusional migraine, where the consciousness is altered
Seizure :
including postictal state and nonconvulsive status epilepticus
Tumor :
primary or metastatic brain tumor, meningeal carcinomatosis
Inflammation or infection :
CNS vasculitis, meningitis, encephalitis, meningoencephalitis
Non-neurological causes
Endocrine disorders :
Cushing syndrome, adrenal insufficiency, pituitary insufficiency, thyroid disorders
Hematologic disorders :
thrombocytopenia, polycythemia, leukemic blast cell crisis, hyperviscosity syndrome
Drugs :
Anticholinergics, antihistamines, antiemetics, antihypertensives, benzodiazepines, corticosteroids, dopamine agonists, muscle relaxants, recreational drugs, antispasmodics, digoxin, hypnotics, opioids, sedatives, tricyclic antidepressants
Infection :
Sepsis, systemic infection, urinary tract infection, pneumonia, fever
Injury :
Burns, fat embolism, hypothermia, heatstroke, electrical injury
Metabolic disorders :
fluid and electrolyte disorders such as hypernatremia, hyponatremia, hypocalcemia, hypercalcemia, dehydration, hyperthermia, hypoglycemia, hyperosmolality, hypoxia.
Vascular and circulatory abnormality :
Cardiac arrhythmia, heart failure, shock, hypoperfusion states, anemia
Vitamin deficiency :
Vitamin B12 deficiency, thiamine deficiency
Substance withdrawal :
Withdrawal from alcohol, benzodiazepines, opioids, or barbiturates
Other causes
Liver failure, long ICU stays, sensory deprivation, sleep deprivation, CNS toxins, fecal impaction, change of environment, hypertensive encephalopathy, post operative states, urinary retention and mental disorders.
Sources
www.nhs.uk/.../Delirium.pdf
http://www.guysandstthomas.nhs.uk/resources/
http://www.patientsafetyfirst.nhs.uk/
http://www.nice.org.uk/nicemedia/live/13060/49909/49909.pdf
psychiatry.stanford.edu/.../Maldonado&
http://www.patient.co.uk/doctor/delirium
http://www.rcpsych.ac.uk/healthadvice/problemsdisorders/delirium.aspx
http://www.nlm.nih.gov/medlineplus/ency/article/000740.htm
www.merckmanuals.com/.../delirium.html
Further Reading Delirium - What is Delirium? Delirium Diagnosis Delirium Treatments Delirium Symptoms
Last Updated: Mar 2, 2015
Read in
| English |
Español
|
Français
|
Deutsch
|
Português
|
Italiano
|
日本語
|
한국어
|
简体中文
|
繁體中文
|
Nederlands
|
Русский
|
Svenska
|
Polski
Comments
The opinions expressed here are the views of the writer and do not necessarily reflect the views and opinions of News-Medical.Net.
Cancel reply to comment
Post a new comment
Login
(Logout)
Post
News A to Z
Drugs A to Z
Health A to Z
Clinical & Diagnostics
Life Science & Laboratory
Consumer Products
News Archive
Medical News Tweets
Information
Subscribe
News-Medical.net - An AZoNetwork Site
Owned and Operated by AZoM.com Limited Copyright 2000-2015
This site complies with the
HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information:
verify here.
News-Medical.Net provides this medical information service in accordance
with these
terms and conditions .
Please note that medical information found
on this website is designed to support, not to replace the relationship
between patient and physician/doctor and the medical advice they may provide.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
Find out more here .