July | 2008 | S.N.O.B
S.N.O.B
a quarter-century life crisis does not mean psychic death
Skip to content
Home S.N.O.B., qu’est-ce que c’est?
Monthly Archives:
July 2008
←
Older posts
Eno/Byrne collabo once more
Posted on
July 31, 2008
|
1 comment
It’s been too long since the brilliant
MY LIFE IN THE BUSH OF GHOSTS . David, you’ve been doing
your piano as room as art thing
and that’s cool, but I have been thinking for awhile that it’s time to get back to working with someone who makes all your wackiness/brilliance come together so it’s pure genius. Thankfully you realized that too and you are giving me the most exciting album in uh, like 20 years:
Everything That Happens Will Happen Today .  Ah, just the name gives me tingles.
You’re even giving us a free song! Perhaps Eno
took to heart that letter from Trent
I posted on this blog a few months ago.
1 Comment
Posted in
music ,
Uncategorized ,
video
Tagged
david byrne ,
eno ,
talking heads
J Spaceman Resurrected! If you didn’t go to the Spiritualized show…
Posted on
July 29, 2008
|
1 comment
Terminal 5 7.27.08 show,
courtesy of
Jason Bergman
“You need to be a quite a snob when you’re makin’ your own music.”
Yes, Spaceman, you do.  Not to be redundant, but I  just can’t stop thinking/dreaming of/recollecting my amazing evening with
Spiritualized
the other night at Terminal 5: an hour and a half of continuous rock slowed down occasionally by melodious, heart-stirring
shoegaze!   There were moments when the Spaceman–who literally almost died after a bout of lethal pneumonia two years ago–screamed as though the electricity from his guitar was resurrecting him.
And the beautiful thing about “new media” is that we can all get a taste of the experience via
NPR : Bob Boilan did a very serious interview with Jason Pierce backstage at the 9:30 Club in Washington, DC and then
recorded the whole show for live streaming audio. (“ Yeah the lights are dimming”–oh man, Bob, you’re so awesomely uncool).
The setlist is almost identical to what I heard two nights later. Let yourself be wowed by that amazing transition from opening song “You Lie You Cheat” (from new album
Songs in A&E ) to every sensitive stoner’s favorite Spaceman ballad, “Shine a Light.”
Also, check out Spaceman’s
radio show.
1 Comment
Posted in
music ,
venues
Tagged
All Music Considered ,
J Spaceman ,
NPR ,
Spiritualized ,
Terminal 5
SnagFilms: DIG for free and lots of other docs
Posted on
July 25, 2008
|
1 comment
Thanks to
Brooklyn Vegan,
I learned that this website,
Snagfims , is showing
DIG , the documentary on The Brian Jonestown Massacre and The Dandy Warhols and their epic rivalry/Anton’s massive drug habit,
for free . I have a deep love of BJM and a secret soft spot for the Dandies too. Also Snagfilms has loads of other interesting docs on everything from politics to sports.
Meanwhile, speaking of Musicians Taking Drugs Making Music to Take Drugs To, I’m going with
Bryan
to see
Spiritualized
on Sunday at Terminal 5. All of you who have tics to see the smaller shows at Music Hall of Williamsburg, I hate you.
J. Spaceman and Me.
1 Comment
Posted in
music ,
venues ,
video
Tagged
BJM ,
brooklyn vegan ,
Dandy Warhols ,
j.Spaceman ,
snagfilms ,
Spiritualized
Sandman Comics: 20 Years
Posted on
July 23, 2008
|
Leave a comment
20 years old!
The Sandman Comics
and their spin-offs (particularly  “Death: The High Cost of Living”
, which refashioned Death as a quirky/adorable Gothette) were a staple in my teenage life. I, like other art freaks before me, had  Delirium -style red hair (pre mohawk D, though) and wore Ankh necklaces. I almost got a tattoo of one big Ankh on my back (that would have been regrettable). But hey, Norman Mailor even liked them, so it’s not just a nerd thing.  And now 20 years!
And a special poster to boot!
Delirium:
Space cadet extraordinaire/Tori Amos doppelganger/beloved muse of redhead art freaks who did too much acid.
The comic started in 1988, which is actually the year I sort of wished I had been 16–rather than the late 90’s. My Bauhaus sticker collection would have certainly been more in vogue. Alas. Here’s to the graceful aging of old goth culture mongers–Gaiman, Tim Burton, Siouxsie Sioux, etc.
Leave a comment
Posted in
Uncategorized
Speaking of Those Old School Game Boys: Fuck Buttons at McCarren Pool
Posted on
July 21, 2008
|
2 comments
Fuck Buttons
at McCarren Pool this Sunday (picture courtesy of random
flickr person
). Yes, that is a Gameboy he’s playing.
And also at McCarren, oh you
Liars ! What a homecoming back to Brooklyn!
You have transcended your past just like I’ve grown out of those homemade tee-shirt dresses I used to wear. Or, as
Wikipedia scribbles , “Although initially lumped into the New York
post-punk revival
scene of the early 21st century, they have come to be categorized by their dramatic stylistic shifts between albums, while retaining a consistent interest in rhythm and sound texture.”
Well then.
Meanwhile 2 questions came to mind during the Liars’ labor-intense set:
But has anybody noticed that the “kids” in Williamsburg look like
Spacoli
in
Fast Times?
Is WIlliamsburg the new LA?
Second Question–is Angus Andrews (of the Liars) the new Nick Cave? Or are all Australian noise-rock musicians just gangly and sexy/creepy?
Ok, that’s actually three questions, but I’m not a good consolidator.
Fuck Buttons: Let’s Talk about Magic
(please not this is for personal use only and expires in a week–I’m not stealing your money Fuck Buttons! I’m just widening your audience…k?)
2 Comments
Posted in
Brooklyn ,
Electronica ,
fashion ,
mp3 ,
music
Tagged
Add new tag ,
fuck buttons ,
liars ,
mccarren pool ,
post punk ,
summer ,
Williamsburg
The Wackness:90’s nostalgia without the scare factor
Posted on
July 16, 2008
|
1 comment
Josh Peck and it-girl Olivia Thirby in
The Wackness : (I had this dress in 1994 too!)
Last week Tyler and I went to see
The Wackness,
a coming-of-age story built almost entirely around nostalgia for 90’s zeitgeist. From The Notorious B.I.G. to the cheesy street slang white kids threw around (thankfully “Dope” has died out) to the baggy denim, it’s saturated with aesthetic references to the Clinton-era. And throwing in child star of that era MK (Mary Kate Olson, that is) is just the icing on the
Millienials’
cupcake. Oh and I did I mention there are b&w screen Gameboys and Nintendo 64s? And no cellphones! People used landlines!
The movie–meh, take it or leave it. It’s a story that’s been told ten times before, albiet set in an era that we’re currently aching for a return to. However, I will note that  watching the man who played
Gandi
(Sir Ben Kingsley) do lines of pharmaceuticals and get it on with aging Bond girl Famke Jenssen is both amusing and startling.
During the film I couldn’t stop thinking, “Where’s Telly?”
The Wackness
proves just how sanitized we have gotten in Bush’s America and post-Giuliani’s New York, as it’s essentially copping the aesthetic of
KIDS , but neglects the nihilism of that film.  It also ignores the horrifying and very real presence of AIDS. The sex scene even emphasizes the LACK of condom, which is very out of line with the AIDS awareness that was so prevalent in that time. Lastly it sorely lacks a Chloe Sevigny-type (Sorry
Olivia , you are no Chloe).
The Wackness
is like
KIDS
redone by
High School Musical
folks, where the AIDS and heroin problems in NYC never existed…and Biggie never died.
However,
The Wackness
has reminded me of something I’ve been meaning to do for awhile:
the 90’s countdown:
1. Positive Hip Hop
Man, was it never better for White People to feel rhythm and feel like there was hope for all races. Tribe Called Quest and Digable Planets remind me of Lisa Bonet and, well, idealism. Then I went to a Jurassic Five show in 2000 in Philly and there were no black people to be found. Alas.
2. MTV’s arty dudes
First there were grunge’s slightly femme-y/usually dirty/always tortured but oh-so-sexy musicians toiling in front of us (Kurt, Trent, Gavin Rossdale). But even their non-music programming was full of these Hawkes (as in Ethan). From the
The Real World
in London (Neil!) to Chris Hardwick on
Singled Out
(dreamy!) to
120 Minutes ‘ “I really need a cough drop” Matt Pinfield, MTV was a minefield of these sensitive dudes…not to mention all the nerdy-chic girls like VJs Kennedy and Karen Duffy, and later, Daria and Jane Lane of
Daria
around .
Of course that all kind of ended with Carson Daly.
3.
My So-Called Life
Jordon Catalano. Rayanne Graff. Ricki. The dad that went to Grateful Dead shows.These people are like cousins to me.
4. Tetrus
on Gameboy : Even my mom was addicted.
5. Blossom ‘s flower hats, Joey’s “Woah!”
6 .
Jonny Lee Miller
in
Hackers
and
Trainspotting
7. TLC’s Lisa Left Eye Lopez’s condom eye patch:
RIP Lisa!
8. Sam Goody’s or The Wall’s listening station:
Um who wasn’t listening to the new Dishwalla–and not buying–it in 1997?
9. Wolf Blitzer covering the Gulf War– holy shit, there are bombs in back of him!
Don’t die Wolfie!
Oh wait, no one died in that war.
10. Prince as a Symbol/Marky Mark/Technotronic/”Heroin chic”/Lillith Fair/Discmans/ Unplugged / Behind The Music/ Angelina Jolie when she was a bi-curious badass/Elizabeth Wurtzel and her
Prozac Nation /piercings up the entire ear/ The Grind
workout video/Meredith Baxter Birney-era Lifetime movies/pre-Parkinson Michael J. Fox/Leonardo DiCaprio before
Titantic/ laser discs/Jane cosmetics/ Sassy
magazine/Juliana Hatfield/trip hop/ SPIN
magazine when it didn’t suck/Britpop and the time when Damon Alburn was hot/Tony Blair’s first few years and all of “Cool Brittania”/the triumph of the Dollar/that dog on
Frasier/ tape singles for 1.99/PollyPockets/Pogs/ 20/20’s
molestation special segments/Al Franken on Comedy Central/Dilbert/cheap Ecstasy/Jessie Spano turns into slut-McGee in
Showgirls /Barney/glowsticks/Berlin’s LOVE PARADE/riot grrl/Gwen Stefani in “I’m just a girl”/Tori Amos channeling Kate Bush and not looking old yet/the anti-Globilization movement/AOL on dial-up/hackey sacks/snap bracelets/the second coming of Jellies (the sandal)/Clear Pepsi/ Reviving Ophelia …
And it goes on and on….
1 Comment
Posted in
1990s ,
celeb ,
fashion ,
hip hop ,
movies ,
tv ,
war
Tagged
Add new tag ,
Chloe Sevigny ,
Gandi ,
josh peck ,
KIDS ,
olivia thirby ,
the 90's ,
Tyler
Beck’s back with sadness and a mouse called Danger!
Posted on
July 3, 2008
|
Leave a comment
Beck’s new album
Modern Guilt:
“It sounds like a great album and very possibly the worst-ever ad for Scientology.”(New York Magazine, Vulture Blog)
Come into my Scientology Room
Leave a comment
Posted in
Uncategorized
←
Older posts
Search It!
Search for:
Recent Entries
Born to Run…and Tweet…and Craft…Not SNOB
Glenn Branca Day!
Swine Flu shakes Jens Lekman “like a leaf”
Hipsters=Stuff (really it makes sense)
Goodbye MJ
Not Quite Thrill Kill Kult: Early Gregg Araki Films, the Guilty Pleasure of My Youth
The Minimalists 101
Music videos now and then…
Friday? Nomi Day!
Spring Mix! Not the Salad…Music!
Links
Better Chatter
Bookforum
Bradford Cox…Deerhunter, etc
brooklyn flea
Brooklyn Sour
Brooklyn Vegan
Chapman/Chapman
Chow
Dazed Digital
design porn
Double X/The Slate Group
Epicurious
f-bots
Feministing
Fiona Maazel
First Second
fish.cloud
Flavorpill NYC
For the Birds
Fraenkel Gallery
Grizzly Bear Blog
Hendrik Hertzberg at the New Yorker
Howard Zinn Online
I’m Not Going To Do This Everyday
iheartbrooklyn.tv
Indie Reader
It's So Nice When It Happens Good
Joan Walsh on Salon.com
Just Gina and her work
Kick Through Continents
Large Hearted Boy
linear response function
Lower Eat Side
Lux Lotus
Maud Newton
McNally Jackson
Meerkat Media
Mike D Becomes
Mobius Cycle
Monitor Mix (ie Carrie Brownstein blogging for NPR)
MurderBlog 3D
New York Magazine's Daily Intel on Gossip Girl
nubloom
O’death
Pitchfork
Post-Rockist
Project Film School!
Rooftop Farms
Slice Lit Mag blog
sweeeeet zine
Takepart
the daily dairy
Tom Dispatch
WordPress.com
WordPress.org
Yahplay
Zoilus
Blog at WordPress.com .
The Coraline Theme .
S.N.O.B
Create a free website or blog at WordPress.com .
The Coraline Theme .
Follow
Follow “S.N.O.B”
Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.
Build a website with WordPress.com
Add your thoughts here... (optional)
Post to
Cancel