She's So Unusual (Alcohol) - TheKolWiki
She's So Unusual (Alcohol)
From TheKolWiki
Jump to:					 navigation , 					 search
Choice adventure number :
68
She's So Unusual
As you push deeper into the violet fog, it starts to swirl and brighten, becoming more rainbow-hued and chaotic. Strange half-recognizable shapes appear in your peripheral vision, vanishing when you turn to look. The landscape sprouts trees that twist through impossible geometries, bearing antique telephones and a variety of squid as fruit.
You're looking around in bewilderment when a young girl with mismatched eyes and a long multicolored mohawk wanders up, with a large dog trailing behind her. She's holding a string tied to a fish, which floats beside her like a piscene balloon. She smiles at you and waves. "hEllO!"
"Uh... hi."
"yOu LooK loSt. WouLd you liKe a fiShY? hiS nAme is barNaBas."
"No," says the dog, "I'm Barnabas. You named the fish 'Byron von Messerschmidt'. And yesterday its name was 'Golfcart'."
"yEs! thaT is WhAt i meaNt."
As the girl begins to dance dreamily around the squid-and-telephone trees, Barnabas looks up at you. "Feel free to accept the fish, if you like -- you won't have to worry about feeding it, since it'll change into something else when you leave." He idly scratches his ear with a hind leg. "Something alcohol-related, if my nose is accurate."
Accept the fish (1)
You take the string, and wave goodbye as the girl dances away happily, with the dog following. As you watch, the fish inexplicably morphs into a large cold beer stein. How very odd.
You acquire an item:
ice stein
This way
That way
The other way
Occurs in the
Violet Fog .
References
She's So Unusual
is the name of the debut album of
Cyndi Lauper .
The image used for this adventure is also named "cyndi.gif".
This adventure also refers to Neil Gaiman's series
The Sandman .
Delirium
is Dream's incoherent sister, who acquires a talking dog named Barnabas toward the end of the series.
She also appears with mismatched eyes and multicolored hair.
She carried a floating fish on a string at one time.
While her speech in the comic was lettered in all-caps, the size of the letters fluctuated, as did the colors of the speech bubbles, and this is sometimes represented in text with odd capitalization.
Retrieved from " http://kol.coldfront.net/thekolwiki/index.php?title=She%27s_So_Unusual_(Alcohol)&oldid=354881 "
Categories :
Choice Adventures Non-combat Adventures
Navigation menu
Personal tools
Log in Request account
Namespaces
Page
Discussion
Variants
Views
Read
View source
View history
More
Search
Navigation
Main Page
Community
Recent changes
Current Projects
Random page
Help
Forums
Discussion
KoL Coldfront
KoL IRC
KoL Coldfront
News
Custom Avatar Gallery
Calendar
KoL Marketplace 2.0
One Day Ascension
Uncle Scottmaley's Amazing Webcomic!
KoL Radio Archive
Player Interviews
Player-created
Media Reviews and Interviews
Well-Tempered Tools
Anvil
Mixologist
Epicure
Tripping the Fog Fantastic
Tour de Louvre
Tools
What links here
Related changes
Special pages
Printable version
Permanent link
Page information
This page was last modified on 21 January 2009, at 19:37.
This page has been accessed 8,650 times.
© 2005 - 2015
Coldfront L.L.C.
Privacy policy
About TheKolWiki
Disclaimers