DoubleCheckMD Side Effects -
HOME
|
USER LOGIN
|
REGISTER
|
FEEDBACK
User Reviews  |
Add Review  |
Search Reviews
Drug Search
You have entered
0
Drug(s)
and
0
Symptom(s)
Click Evaluate for a complete analysis of your drugs and symptoms
Risperdal
(risperidone)
Side Effect Search
Underlined
words or phrases provide
helpful links to information in
wikipedia.org
and when moused over often give helpful definitions of the medical terms.
Keywords
Keywords
Mental confusion (especially in the elderly),
Confusion (especially in older adults),
Disorientation,
Confusion (especially at night),
Mental disorientation,
Reversible mental confusion,
mental confusion,
confusional state,
confusion,
Confusion (in the elderly),
Confusion/disorientation,
Confusion conjunctivitis (pinkeye),
Close Window
Risperdal
may cause
confusion/disorientation .
This drug may also cause the following symptoms that are
related
to
confusion/disorientation: Mania (an emotional disorder with an exagerated feeling of well-being and hyperactivity - can cause racing thoughts; distraction; increased sexual urges; sleeplessness; irritability; anger; delusions; hyper-religiosity; talkativeness; rapid speech; buying sprees; grandiose plans; abnormally elevated mood)   Mania
(frequent) Decreased mental clarity   Decreased mental clarity Depression   Depression Inability to concentrate   Inability to concentrate Memory loss   Memory loss Abnormal
blood tests - hypophosphatemia (a decrease in phosphorus levels - when severely low may cause muscle weakness, tingling sensations, tremors, and bone weakness, confusion, memory loss, seizures, and coma)   Abnormal
blood tests - hypophosphatemia
(rare) Aphasia (inability to speak or to understand speech - usually due to a stroke or other brain condition)   Aphasia
(rare) Delirium (abnormal mental function - such as confusion; disorientation; hallucinations; agitation; or extreme excitement - usually caused by a disease or drug intoxication)   Delirium
(rare) Stroke caused by blockage of the arteries that supply blood to the brain (can cause signs of brain dysfunction including one-sided weakness, numbness, loss of sensation; headache and vomiting; changes in vision, hearing, taste; speech problems or slurred speech; balance problems; dizziness; weakness in facial muscle and tongue; facial or eyelid drooping; loss of consciousness; coma)   Stroke caused by blockage of the arteries that supply blood to the brain
(rare) . This symptom may occur in elderly people
Medical Source Information Yellow
highlights indicate symptoms related to confusion/disorientation. Nervous system side effects have frequently included
insomnia
(26%),
dystonia
(18%),
akathisia
(16%),
extrapyramidal symptoms
(17%),
headache
(14%),
dizziness
(11%),
parkinsonism
(6%),
asthenia
(4%),
somnolence
(3%), and
hypoesthesia
(2%).
Increased dream activity ,
nervousness ,
impaired concentration ,
increased sleep
duration,
dysarthria ,
vertigo ,
stupor ,
paraesthesia ,
confusion , and
amnesia
have also been reported.
Delirium ,
withdrawal syndrome ,
yawning ,
aphasia , cholinergic syndrome,
hypoesthesia ,
tongue paralysis ,
leg cramps ,
torticollis ,
hypotonia ,
coma ,
migraine ,
hyperreflexia ,
choreoathetosis ,
seizures ,
neuroleptic malignant syndrome ,
tardive dyskinesia , and sleep- related eating disorder (SRED) have been reported rarely. Extrapyramidal symptoms
may be less frequently associated with risperidone than most other available antipsychotics.
Treatment of
extrapyramidal effects , in addition to general supportive measures, may include judicious use of one or more of the following: benztropine, trihexyphenidyl, biperiden, or diphenhydramine.
Sedation
may occur, particularly at higher doses.
Blurred vision ,
vertigo ,
impaired concentration ,
increased appetite
and
decreased appetite
have also been reported.
At least three cases of
tardive dyskinesia
have also been reported with risperidone use with one case accompanied by risperidone induced
parkinsonism .
Tardive dyskinesia
involves involuntary,
dyskinetic, repetitive movements .
Tardive dyskinesia may be irreversible and is related to both the duration of therapy and the total amount of drug consumed.
Frequent discontinuation and resumption of therapy may predispose patients to the development of
tardive dyskinesia .
At least fourteen cases of
neuroleptic malignant syndrome
have been reported with risperidone use.
Fever,
altered consciousness ,
autonomic dysfunction
and
muscle rigidity
are the hallmarks of the neuroleptic malignant syndrome.
The neuroleptic malignant syndrome is associated with a case fatality rate of about 20%.
Immediate discontinuation of neuroleptic therapy, consideration of dantrolene administration as well as intensive monitoring and supportive care are indicated.
Nine of the 13 cases reported were between 15 and 43 years old.
One of the cases had a delayed onset and another case resulted in death.
One study has reported that in patients who were given risperidone, there was a positive correlation between improvement in psychopathology and improvement in cognitive test of explicit memory and alertness. Psychiatric side effects have frequently included
agitation ,
anxiety ,
manic reaction , and
aggressive reaction .
Diminished sexual desire ,
depression ,
apathy ,
catatonic
reaction, euphoria, and
increased libido
have also been reported.
Emotional lability ,
nightmares , and obsessive-compulsive symptoms have been reported rarely. Get emergency medical help if you have any of these signs of an
allergic reaction :
hives; difficulty breathing; swelling of your face, lips, tongue, or throat.
Stop using risperidone and call your doctor at once if you have any of these serious side effects:
fever ,
stiff muscles ,
confusion ,
sweating , fast or uneven heartbeats;
restless
muscle
movements in your eyes, tongue , jaw, or neck;
tremor
(uncontrolled shaking);
fever ,
chills ,
body aches ,
flu symptoms ;
white
patches
or
sores inside your mouth
or on your lips;
trouble swallowing ; or
feeling light-headed ,
fainting .
Less serious side effects may include:
mild restlessness, drowsiness, or tremor;
sleepiness, dreaming more than usual;
blurred vision;
dizziness or headache;
weight gain;
problems with urination;
nausea, dry mouth, constipation; or
decreased sex drive, impotence, or difficulty having an orgasm.
This is not a complete list of side effects and others may occur. Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects. You may report side effects to FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088.
In clinical trial and/or postmarketing experience, leucopenia/neutropenia and agranulocytosis have been reported temporally related to antipsychotic agents.
Possible risk factors for leukopenia/neutropenia include preexisting low white blood cell count (WBC) and history of drug induced leukopenia/neutropenia.
Patients with a history of a clinically significant low WBC or drug induced leukopenia/neutropenia should have their complete blood count (CBC) monitored frequently during the first few months of therapy and discontinuation of risperidone should be considered at the first sign of a clinically significant decline in WBC in the absence of other causative factors.
In addition, based on data from four placebo controlled trials conducted in elderly patients (n=1230), cerebrovascular adverse events (e.g.,
stroke ,
transient ischemic attack ), including fatalities, have been reported in elderly patients with dementia-related psychosis.
In placebo controlled trials, there was a significantly higher incidence of cerebrovascular adverse events in patients treated with risperidone compared to patients treated with placebo.
Risperidone has not been shown to be safe or effective in the treatment of patients with dementia-related psychosis.
Additional information on these and other clinical trials conducted in elderly patients can be obtained by calling 1-800- JANSSEN (800-526-7736).
Risperidone may
impair
the
mental
abilities necessary for potentially hazardous tasks such as
driving
or operating machinery.
Cardiovascular side effects have frequently included
tachycardia ,
hypertension , and
hypotension .
Palpitation ,
AV block , and
myocardial infarction
have also been reported.
Ventricular tachycardia ,
angina pectoris ,
premature atrial contractions , T wave inversions,
ventricular extrasystoles ,
syncope ,
edema , ST depression,
myocarditis ,
venous thromboembolism , and
bradycardia
have been reported rarely.
Prolongation of the QT interval
has been reported in some patients.
One fatal
cardiac event
following initiation of risperidone therapy has been reported.
Cerebrovascular events (e.g.,
stroke
and
transient ischemic attack ), including fatalities, have rarely been reported and then primarily in elderly patients with dementia- related psychosis.
An increased risk of mortality, possibly due to
heart failure
or
sudden death , has been reported with the use of atypical antipsychotic agents, including risperidone, in the treatment of behavioral disorders in the elderly patient with dementia.
However, it should be noted that conflicting data exist regarding an increased risk of mortality and use of risperidone in elderly dementia patients.
During postmarketing surveillance,
retinal artery occlusion
in the presence of abnormal arteriovenous anastomosis has been reported following injection of long-acting risperidone. Collective data gathered from 17 placebo-controlled clinical studies (n=5106) involving the use of atypical antipsychotic agents, including risperidone, for the treatment of behavioral disorders in the elderly patient with dementia showed a risk of death 1.6 to 1.7 times greater in the drug- treated patient than in the placebo- treated patient.
The average length of duration for the trials was 10 weeks with the cause of death in the majority of cases, though not all, reported as either cardiovascular (e.g., heart failure, sudden death) or infectious (e.g., pneumonia) in nature.
Similar results (i.e., increased risk of mortality with atypical antipsychotics) were reported in another meta-analysis involving elderly dementia patients that consisted of 15 randomized, placebo-controlled trials (n=3353) of 10 to 12 weeks in duration.
Risperidone is not approved by the FDA for use in the treatment of behavioral disorders in elderly patients with dementia.
However, in contrast, the results of another meta-analysis of 6 randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, clinical trials (n=1721) found a nonsignificant increase in overall mortality in elderly dementia patients treated with risperidone.
The results of a large retrospective cohort study appear to indicate that atypical antipsychotic agents (i.e., risperidone, olanzapine, clozapine, quetiapine) increase the risk of
venous thromboembolism
in elderly patients; however, these events seem to be rare.
Based on data from four placebo controlled trials conducted in elderly patients (n=1230), cerebrovascular adverse events (e.g.,
stroke , transient ischemic attack), including fatalities, have been reported in elderly patients with dementia- related psychosis.
In placebo controlled trials, there was a significantly higher incidence of cerebrovascular adverse events in patients treated with risperidone compared to patients treated with placebo.
Risperidone has not been shown to be safe or effective in the treatment of patients with dementia- related psychosis.
Additional information on these and other clinical trials conducted in elderly patients can be obtained by calling 1-800- JANSSEN (800-526-7736).
However, the association between the use of atypical antipsychotics (i.e., risperidone, olanzapine) and the risk of cerebrovascular events appears to be somewhat controversial.
The results of a case-control study found no increased risk of cerebrovascular events in elderly patients treated with atypical antipsychotics. Metabolic side effects have frequently included
weight gain .
Hyponatremia ,
creatine phosphokinase increase ,
thirst ,
weight decrease , and
hyperglycemia
have also been reported.
Decreased serum iron ,
cachexia ,
dehydration ,
hypokalemia ,
hypoproteinemia ,
hyperphosphatemia ,
hypertriglyceridemia ,
hyperuricemia , and
hypoglycemia
have been reported rarely.
A large scale clinical trial at clinically relevant doses has reported significant
reductions in glucose tolerance
during treatment with risperidone.
Side Effects to Watch Watch closely for the following side effects and notify your physician immediately should any of these develop: Abnormal heart rate, fluttering in the chest, weakness, faintness, dizziness or loss of consciousness (signs of a serious condition called "torsade de pointe or QT prolongation" in which irregular heartbeats occur) Abnormal bruising or signs of bleeding such as bleeding from the gums, nose, digestive tract, vagina (females), faintness, dizziness, loss of consciousness, or rash (signs of problems with blood clot formation) Lab and Diagnostic Tests If certain symptoms develop, ask your physician whether you need the following lab tests or other diagnostic tests (if you've not already had them): Monitor white blood cell count, complete blood count and complete blood count Blood tests to assess normal clotting - in people who develop signs of bleeding such as abnormal bruising or signs of bleeding including bleeding from the gums, nose, digestive tract, vagina (females), faintness, dizziness, loss of consciousness, or rash EKG - if abnormal heartbeats (rapid slow or irregular) develop glucose - check before starting treatment and then periodically References Risperidone and neuroleptic malignant syndrome. Tarsy D JAMA 1996;275:446. Two cases of risperidone-induced neuroleptic malignant syndrome. Dave M Am J Psychiatry 1995;152:1233-4. Schizophrenia and severe tardive dyskinesia responsive to risperidone. Kopala LC, Honer WG J Clin Psychopharmacol 1994;14:430-1. Risperidone-induced neuroleptic malignant syndrome in young patient. Raitasuo V, Vataja R, Elomaa E Lancet 1994;344:1705. Delayed risperidone-induced malignant syndrome. Kern JL, Cernek PK Ann Pharmacother 1996;30:300. Risperidone: clinical safety and efficacy in schizophrenia. Borison RL, Pathiraja AP, Diamond BI, Meibach RC Psychopharmacol Bull 1992;28:213-8. Risperidone-induced neutroleptic malignant syndrome. Sharma R, Trappler B, Ng YK, Leeman CP Ann Pharmacother 1996;30:775-8. Product Information. Risperdal (risperidone). Anonymous Janssen Pharmaceutica, Titusville, NJ. PROD; Risperidone-induced tardive dyskinesia and parkinsonism. Gwinn KA, Caviness JN Mov Disord 1997;12:119-21. Tardive dyskinesia induced by risperidone? Woerner MG, Sheitman BB, Lieberman JA, Kane JM Am J Psychiatry 1996;153:843. Risperidone-induced neuroleptic malignant syndrome. Webster P, Wijeratne C Lancet 1994;344:1228-9. Sleep-related eating disorder induced by risperidone. Lu ML,
Shen WW J Clin Psychiatry 2004;65:273-4. Risperidone versus clozapine in the treatment of schizophrenic patients with acute symptoms - a double blind, randomized trial. Heinrich K, Klieser E, Lehmann E, Kinzler E, Hruschka H Prog Neuropsychopharmacol Biol Psychiatry 1994;18:129-37. Tardive Dyskinesia With Risperidone and Anticholinergics. Suzuki E,
Obata M,
Yoshida Y,
Miyaoka H Am J Psychiatry 2002;159:1948. Extrapyramidal Syndrome and Long-Acting Injectable Risperidone. Adamou M,
Hale AS Am J Psychiatry 2004;161:756-757. Risperidone-induced mania. Zolezzi M, Badr MGA Ann Pharmacother 1999;33:380-1. Two cases of risperidone-induced neuroleptic malignant syndrome. Singer S, Richards C, Boland RJ Am J Psychiatry 1995;152:1234. Risperidone-induced extrapyramidal reactions. Mahmood T, Clothier EB, Bridgman R Lancet 1995;346:1226. Extrapyramidal side effects and tolerability of risperidone - a review. Owens DGC J Clin Psychiatry 1994;55 Suppl:29-35. Extrapyramidal symptoms following accidental ingestion of risperidone in a child. Cheslik TA, Erramouspe J Ann Pharmacother 1996;30:360-3. Manic symptoms associated with initiation of risperidone. Schnierow BJ, Graeber DA Am J Psychiatry 1996;153:1235-6. Antidepressant activity and mania associated with risperidone treatment of schizoaffective disorder. Dwight MM, Keck PE, Stanton SP, Strakowski SM, Mcelroy SL Lancet 1994;344:554-5. The effect of risperidone on cognition in patients with schizophrenia. Stip E, Lussier I Can J Psychiatry 1996;41 (suppl:s35-40. Risperidone for chronic schizophrenia. Anonymous Med Lett Drugs Ther 1994;36:33-4. Risperidone and neuroleptic malignant syndrome: a case report. Najara JE, Enikeev ID J Clin Psychiatry 1995;56:534-5. Risperidone-induced tardive dyskinesia. Buzan RD Am J Psychiatry 1996;153:734-5. Clozapine in the management of schizophrenia. Risperidone is less toxic but equally effective. Menkes DB BMJ 1993;307:200. Lower risk for tardive dyskinesia associated with second-generation antipsychotics: a systematic review of 1-year studies. Correll CU,
Leucht S,
Kane JM Am J Psychiatry 2004;161:414-25. Risperidone versus haloperidol in the treatment of chronic schizophrenic inpatients: a multicentre double-blind comparative study. Claus A, Bollen J, De Cuyper H, Eneman M, Malfroid M, Peuskens J, Heylen S Acta Psychiatr Scand 1992;85:295-305. Neuroleptic malignant syndrome with risperidone. Gleason PP, Conigliaro RL Pharmacotherapy 1997;17:617-21.
Multum version: 154.0
(Jun 16, 2010)
NEW!
User Reviews
See user reviews (58 Reviews)
Reported Side Effect Severity
All
Rate severity of this side effect
Add review
Most Frequent Side Effects
Insomnia and other sleep problems
Dystonia
Movement abnormalities/muscle spasms
Inability to sit still/restlessness
Headache
Dizziness
Parkinson-like symptoms
Muscle weakness
Drowsiness
Decreased sensation/sensitivity
Decreased sensitivity to touch
See More...
Frequent User Reported Side Effects
(7)
Acne
(6)
Abnormal menstrual bleeding
(6)
Weight gain
(5)
Flushed skin
(5)
Lack of energy/fatigue
(5)
Teary eyes
(5)
Irritability
(5)
Abnormal orgasms
See More...
Conditions Treated by Risperdal
Autism
Bipolar Disorder
Other
Schizophrenia
Drug Category
Atypical antipsychotics
Add a User Review
To add a User Review fill out the fields below. A drug name is required to post. You will be asked to enter the dosage, which is listed on the bottle/container, along with units such as mg, ounces, etc; as well as how often you take the drug. When you enter a possible side effect, you will be asked about its severity. In the comment field, please describe your experiences or any comment that you will think help other users understand what they can expect from their drug treatment. We also welcome comments and suggestions about our site through
feedback .
*
Enter drug name - enter one
drug at a time, by typing at least 3 letters of the drug name and select the appropriate drug from
the list, then proceed to entering the next drug.
*
Enter condition name
- the "condition" is the reason you are taking the drug, which could be a disease such as "diabetes" or a symptom such as "joint aches".
Enter a condition and select from the list shown, then enter the next condition if you are experiencing more than one.
*
Enter side effects
- these are any undesirable effects you might be experiencing from the drug(s). Enter your side
effect and select from the list shown, then enter the next side effect if you are experiencing
more than one. If you are not experiencing any side effects check the box below, No Side Effects.
Search results
close
Please indicate, on the scale of 1 to 5 below, where 1 is the weakest and 5 is the strongest,
the amount of discomfort or impact this side effect is having on you.
OR
No Side Effects
Enter comments
- tell the community about your experiences and any information you may have about taking these drugs.
Age
select
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
38
39
40
41
42
43
44
45
46
47
48
49
50
51
52
53
54
55
56
57
58
59
60
61
62
63
64
65
66
67
68
69
70
71
72
73
74
75
76
77
78
79
80
81
82
83
84
85
86
87
88
89
90
91
92
93
94
95
96
97
98
99
100
101
102
103
104
105
106
107
108
109
110
111
112
113
114
115
116
117
118
119
Gender:
select
Male
Female
Thank you for adding your review.
Return to Current Page
To help protect against automated posting, please enter the words that appear in the box below
( more info ).
Words should be separated by space.
Unable to see the image? ( get another image )
* Required fields
NOTE: Just because a drug or combination of drugs can cause a
symptom does not mean it is actually causing your symptom. Symptoms can be caused by
medical conditions as well. Make sure that your physician is aware of any symptoms you
are experiencing so he/she can work with you to determine the cause. Please DO NOT STOP
MEDICATIONS without first consulting a physician since doing so could be hazardous to
your health.
DISCLAIMER : Please note that the information DoubleCheckMD.com provides is intended
to help individuals to work with their medical professionals and is for educational purposes
only. It does not constitute medical or healthcare advice and serves to supplement, not
substitute for, the expertise and judgment of a healthcare professional. In all cases
individuals should consult with a physician before taking any action based on DoubleCheckMD
feedback including, but not limited to ceasing taking any drug, changing diet or commencing or
discontinuing any course of treatment. The information provided by DoubleCheckMD.com is not
intended to cover all possible uses, directions, precautions, drug interactions or adverse
effects, nor should it be construed to indicate that the use of a particular drug is safe,
appropriate or effective.
Home
|
Privacy
Policy
|
Terms of Use
|
For Webmasters and Bloggers
|
Contact Us
DoubleCheckMD is an Enhanced Medical Decisions, Inc. Brand
©
Enhanced Medical Decisions, 2009
CLOSE WINDOW
HOLDER
CLOSE WINDOW
HOLDER
MORE ...
SOURCE +
Date
Name
Delete
You have no saved evaluations.
Username
Password
Email Address
We'll keep Your Personal Information Private
Registration helps ensure the privacy of your personal health information.
It's easy to register. Just enter a username and password. This is
information you will use to login so you may want to write it down.
Username*
Password*
Password* (verify)
First Name (optional)
Last Name (optional)
Email Address (optional)
I have read and agree to abide by the
DoubleCheckMD
Terms of Use
and
DoubleCheckMD Privacy Policy .
I am a medical professional
First name
Last name
Email Address
Comments*
First name
Last name
Email Address
Comments*