Delirium Symptoms
Home
Thought Leaders Series
Insights from Industry Series
MediKnowledge Series
Research White Papers
News Feed
News A-Z
Health A-Z
Drugs A-Z
Clinical & Diagnostics
Life Science & Laboratory
Consumer Products
About
Meet the Team
Terms and Conditions
Medical News 'Tweets'
LIFE SCIENCES & MEDICINE
October 30, 2015
Other search tools: Drugs | Health | News
Newsletters
Contact Us
Advertisement
Trending Stories Sexual activity causes physiological changes in the body that increase women's chances of getting pregnant Loyola gastroenterologist provides tips to IBS patients for healthy living Neuroscientists reveal the brain malady responsible for tinnitus, chronic pain Single drop of blood in the brain can activate autoimmune response akin to multiple sclerosis Spatial grid pattern in brain region is altered in young adults with Alzheimer's risk Study shows how dietary fatty acids affect development and progression of multiple sclerosis
Advertisement Latest News Routine clinical features may aid BVFTD diagnostic accuracy ‘Room for improvement’ in post-thrombolysis haemorrhage management Low-dose occupational radiation exposure increases solid cancer risk Very long-term outcomes of childhood onset epilepsy reported Talyst to exhibit pharmacy automation and medication management products at HealthAchieve Lack of adequate sleep can interfere with fundamental cellular process
Delirium Symptoms
Reviewed by
Sally Robertson , BSc
Delirium is a sudden state of severe mental confusion that can occur as a result of illness, surgery or with the use of some medications. This clinical syndrome can be difficult to define precisely, but it involves abnormalities in awareness, perception and thought. Also called “ acute confusional state ,” delirium usually starts suddenly and can be frightening for the person experiencing it as well as for those around them. However, the delirium usually lifts once the underlying case has been identified and treated.
Many cases of delirium are caused by conditions that prevent oxygen or other vital substances reaching the brain. Some examples of these causes are drug abuse, surgery, poison, electrolyte imbalance, sedative withdrawal, alcohol withdrawal and infections such as pneumonia.
Several subtypes of delirium exist and these include the hypoactive subtype, which is characterized by a quiet confusion and apathy that may be easily overlooked or confused with depression; the hyperactive subtype, which presents with prominent disorientation, agitation and delusion, but may be confused with schizophrenia and the mixed subtype, where patients fluctuate between the hypoactive and hyperactive subtypes.
A patient’s symptoms can sometimes point towards the underlying cause of the delirium, such as fever, for example. Some common features of delirium, however, such as drowsiness, confusion, and disorientation do not provide obvious clues as to the cause of the condition.
Delirium is present in about 15 to 20% of patients who are admitted to hospital. The syndrome is very common among the elderly and as many of these patients never recover their original function and may require institutionalisation. The incidence of delirium is estimated to be around 0.5% in those aged between 18 and 55 years; 1.1% in those aged between 56 years and 85 years and 13.6% among those older than 85 years. Delirium is also more common among people with a pre-existing cognitive abnormality, HIV or malignancy.
Although these facts are known, delirium is still underdiagnosed and inadequately managed, with as many as two thirds of cases being overlooked in some healthcare settings. One problem is that gaps may occur in terms of the measures taken to identify delirium such as daily assessment of cognitive function. Staff may also fail to perform proper assessment of delirium hallmarks such as a reduced attention span or fluctuating mood. Physicians also depend on notes made in health records to detect fluctuations and this information may be insufficient to allow for timely recognition and diagnosis.
Some examples of delirium symptoms include:
Diminished awareness of surroundings
Uncertainly about location or means of arriving there
Inability to understand conversation and speak clearly
Vivid, often frightening dreams that continue once awake
Auditory hallucination
Agitation and restlessness
Fear that others are trying to cause harm
Feeling drowsy and slow
Sleeping during the day, but being awake at night
Rapid mood swings that vary from scared and anxious to depressed or irritable
Confusion that worsens in the evenings
Reduced concentration
Acute or subacute onset
Memory deficits, mainly in short-term memory
Slowed or increased movement
Changes in sensation
Incontinence
Patients may only present with some of these symptoms and their history needs to be examined in order to determine their previous level of function. According to the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, the criteria that need to be met for delirium to be diagnosed are as follows:
Disturbed consciousness, with the patient displaying a reduction in awareness of their environment, for example, along with less ability to sustain or shift their attention.
Cognitive change such as speech disturbance, reduced perception, disorientation or memory deficit that cannot be accounted for by the pre-existence or emergence of dementia.
The abnormalities develop quickly, over the course of hours or days and tend to fluctuate in severity throughout the day.
Medical history, laboratory tests or physical examination indicates that the problem is being caused by an intoxicating substance, medical condition, the use of a certain medication or a combination of these factors.
This diagnostic instrument can be difficult to apply to very sick patients. For critically ill patients, clinicians can use the Confusion Assessment Method for the Intensive Care Unit (CAM-ICU) to detect delirium and this tool is particularly useful for patients on mechanical ventilation. CAM-ICU uses non-verbal tests to assess key delirium symptoms.
Another diagnostic tool that may be used in the ICU setting is the Intensive Care Delirium Screening Checklist (ICDSC). To estimate the severity of symptoms, the Delirium Detection Scale (DDS) may be used.
Sources
www.nhs.uk/.../Delirium.pdf
www.guysandstthomas.nhs.uk/.../...or-patients-relatives-and-carers.pdf
www.patientsafetyfirst.nhs.uk/.../...er%20People%20with%20Delirium.pdf
http://www.nice.org.uk/nicemedia/live/13060/49909/49909.pdf
psychiatry.stanford.edu/.../Maldonado&
http://www.nlm.nih.gov/medlineplus/ency/article/000740.htm
www.mentalhealth.org.uk/help-information/mental-health-a-z/d/delirium/
http://www.patient.co.uk/doctor/delirium
http://emedicine.medscape.com/article/288890-clinical
Last Updated: Feb 19, 2015
Read in
| English |
Español
|
Français
|
Deutsch
|
Português
|
Italiano
|
日本語
|
한국어
|
简体中文
|
繁體中文
|
Nederlands
|
Русский
|
Svenska
|
Polski
Comments
The opinions expressed here are the views of the writer and do not necessarily reflect the views and opinions of News-Medical.Net.
Cancel reply to comment
Post a new comment
Login
(Logout)
Post
News A to Z
Drugs A to Z
Health A to Z
Clinical & Diagnostics
Life Science & Laboratory
Consumer Products
News Archive
Medical News Tweets
Information
Subscribe
News-Medical.net - An AZoNetwork Site
Owned and Operated by AZoM.com Limited Copyright 2000-2015
This site complies with the
HONcode standard for trustworthy health
information:
verify here.
News-Medical.Net provides this medical information service in accordance
with these
terms and conditions .
Please note that medical information found
on this website is designed to support, not to replace the relationship
between patient and physician/doctor and the medical advice they may provide.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site you are agreeing to our use of cookies.
Find out more here .