Literary Heroines to Love: Kathy Acker - BitchBuzz Culture
Sign In
Guest
- Register
About
Contact
News Life Style Tech Home Food Culture
Tweet
Literary Heroines to Love: Kathy Acker
By Jane Bradley
This month marks the eleventh anniversary of author Kathy Acker’s death. A feminist icon, Acker is lauded in the US by a host of famous faces, from academic luminaries to musicians, authors, and activists.
In 2002,
NYU held a symposium on her writing , but in the UK she is still seen by many as peripheral to the literary canon; a cult heroine who remains conspicuously absent in mainstream academia and public recognition. (A notable exception to this is the
ICA in London , which at the start of this year held a retrospective of Acker’s short films; with titles like Nymphomania and Random Acts of Intimacy, the latter of which starred notorious 80s fashionista Sara Stockbridge alongside Isla Fisher).
But who is this Ms. Acker of whom I speak so highly? Kathy was a renegade writer who unapologetically embodied the New York punk movement. Her breakthrough 1984 novel,
Blood and Guts in High School , was the first of her writing to be published in Britain, and caused controversy far and wide for its explicit sexual content. Its central themes of incest, paedophilia, abortion and prostitution, along with the graphic sex scenes between Janey, the novel’s ten-year-old protagonist, and her father, caused the book to be banned as pornographic in several countries.
But as well as being criticised, it was also innovative in ways that the literary world had rarely encountered before. Appropriating the work of Jean Genet, Georges Bataille and the Marquis de Sade, Acker used journal entries, dreams, drawings, letters and poetry to form a textual collage, similar to the cut-up techniques that made William Burroughs so famous.
Acker’s texts are renowned for being challenging reads; almost always abstract and non-linear in nature, the disjointed imagery and fantasy sequences of violence, sex and apocalyptic environments are similar to Patti Smith’s scribblings, and the recordings that abound on the internet of Acker reading aloud are reminiscent in power and venom of Patti Smith’s spoken word poetry.
Although Kathy Acker died in 1997, her influence remains undeniable and far-reaching. Kathleen Hanna and Kim Gordon, of Bikini Kill and Sonic Youth respectively, have acknowledged Acker’s strong influence on them, along with contemporary experimental (and bizarrely, predominantly male) authors such as Stewart Home and Dennis Cooper. Even
Delirium , the popular comic book character by Neil Gaiman, is partly based on Acker. And if
that
doesn’t inspire you to investigate her work, then I don’t know what will.
Image via
Le Peuple Qui Manque
POSTED IN:
CULTURE
Sat, 01 Nov 2008 10:37 (GMT+00)
0
Responses
Sorry, Comments have been disabled.
Read Why
The opinions expressed by the author and commenters are their own and do not necessarily reflect the opinions of BitchBuzz or any employer or organisation.
The aforementioned are not responsible for the accuracy of content published.
BITCHBUZZ IS CLOSING! Friday 18th Jan 2013 is the last day BitchBuzz will be updated, this site now serves only as an archive. read more...
Copyright © BitchBuzz.com 2015 | Build v1.1.437.89
Utils v1.1.437.89