Washington, D.C./Touristenattraktionen - Wikimania 2012 in Washington, D.C.
Washington, D.C./Touristenattraktionen
From Wikimania 2012 • Washington, D.C., USA
Washington, D.C.
Jump to:					 navigation , 					 search
This page is a
translated version
of the page
Washington, D.C./Tourist Attractions
and the translation is 14% complete.
Other languages:
Deutsch  • ‎ English  • ‎ עברית  • ‎ ქართული  • ‎ македонски
All- gemeine Informa- tionen
Ge- schichte
Topo- grafie und Klima
Ver- kehr
Sehens-würdig- keiten
Kultur und Sport
Touris- ten- attrak- tionen
Wohin etwas Essen gehen?
Wohin etwas Trinken gehen?
Tele- kommuni- kations- anbieter
Nationales Luft- und Raumfahrmuseum
Contents
1
Museen
1.1
Nationales Luft- und Raumfahrmuseum
1.2
National Museum of African Art
1.3
National Museum of American History
1.4
National Museum of the American Indian
1.5
The National Gallery of Art
1.6
Arthur M. Sackler Gallery and Freer Gallery of Art
1.7
Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden
1.8
Smithsonian American Art Museum
1.9
National Portrait Gallery
1.10
Renwick Gallery
1.11
Anacostia Museum
1.12
National Postal Museum
1.13
Smithsonian National Zoological Park
Museen
Nationales Luft- und Raumfahrmuseum
The
National Air and Space Museum
(NASM) of the
Smithsonian Institution
holds the largest collection of historic aircraft and spacecraft in the world. It was established in 1976. Almost all space and aircraft on display are originals or backups to the originals.
Opening hours and directions
National Museum of African Art
The
National Museum of African Art
is a part of the Smithsonian Institution. Located on the
National Mall , the museum specializes in
African art
and
culture . It was established as a private museum in 1964, and officially became a part of the Smithsonian Institution in August 1979.
The museum's main entrance is situated off the gardens in front of the
Smithsonian Castle
on
Independence Avenue
Southwest. The National Museum of African Art is an underground museum with subterranean connections with the
Arthur M. Sackler Gallery
and the
Freer Gallery of Art .
Artwork in the museum comes from all parts of Africa, but most of it is from the region south of the Sahara. Represented countries include Mali, Cameroon, Tanzania, the Democratic Republic of Congo, South Africa, Ghana, and Morocco, among others. Most of the items in the collection are sculptures, masks, furniture, and musical instruments made from wood.
Opening hours
National Museum of American History
National Museum of American History
The
The National Museum of American History
collects, preserves and displays the heritage of the
United States
in the areas of social, political, cultural, scientific and military history. Among the items on display are the original
Star-Spangled Banner
and
Archie Bunker 's chair. The museum is part of the Smithsonian Institution and located on the National Mall.
Opening hours
National Museum of the American Indian
The
National Museum of the American Indian
is a museum operated under the auspices of the Smithsonian Institution that is dedicated to the life, languages, literature, history, and arts of the
native Americans
of the Western Hemisphere. The collection includes more than 800,000 objects, as well as a photographic archive of 125,000 images.
Opening hours
The National Gallery of Art
The
National Gallery of Art
is an art museum, located on the
National Mall
in Washington, D.C. Open to the public free of charge, the museum was established in 1937 for the people of the United States of America by a joint resolution of the
United States Congress . The National Gallery of Art has one of the finest art collections in the world. European and American paintings, sculpture, works on paper, photographs, and decorative arts are displayed in the collection galleries and Sculpture Garden. The permanent collection of paintings spans from the Middle Ages to the present day. The strongest collection is the
Italian Renaissance
collection, which includes two panels from
Duccio 's
Maesta , the great
tondo
of the
Adoration of the Magi
by
Fra Angelico
and
Filippo Lippi , a
Botticelli
on the same subject,
Giorgione 's
Allendale Nativity ,
Bellini 's
The Feast of the Gods , the only
Leonardo
painting in the Americas,
Ginevra de' Benci ; and significant groups of works by
Titian
and
Raphael . The European collections include examples of the work of many of the great masters of western painting, including
Grünewald ,
Cranach the Elder ,
Van der Weyden ,
Dürer ,
Hals ,
Rembrandt ,
Vermeer ,
Goya ,
Ingres , and
Delacroix , among others. The collection of sculpture and decorative arts includes such works as the
Chalice
of
Abbot Suger
of
St-Denis
and a superb collection of work by
Rodin
and
Degas .
Location and opening hours
Arthur M. Sackler Gallery and Freer Gallery of Art
The
Arthur M. Sackler Gallery , along with the
Freer Gallery of Art , are an Asian art museum that form the national museums of Asian art of the Smithsonian Institution. Its collection includes 9,917 Asian art objects.
The gallery is located on the
National Mall
directly behind the
Smithsonian Castle . Its main gallery spaces are underground, and the building connects to the
National Museum of African Art .
The Sackler Gallery frequently hosts international exhibitions highlighting aspects of Asian art.
The Freer Gallery contains art from the Mediterranean, East Asia, South Asia, Southeast Asia, the Muslim world, the ancient Near East, and ancient Egypt, as well as American art. It houses 25,518 objects spanning 6,000 years of history, including but not limited to ancient Egyptian stone sculpture and wooden objects, ancient Near Eastern ceramics and metalware, Chinese paintings and ceramics, Korean pottery and porcelain, Japanese Byōbu, Persian manuscripts, and Buddhist sculpture. Collections span from the Neolithic to modern eras.
Opening hours
Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden
Kiepenkerl by Jeff Koons
The
Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden
is an art museum beside the National Mall. Notable artists in the collection include:
Pablo Picasso ,
Henri Matisse ,
Mary Cassatt ,
Thomas Eakins ,
Henry Moore ,
Jackson Pollock ,
Mark Rothko ,
Franz Kline ,
Hans Hofmann ,
Morris Louis ,
Kenneth Noland ,
John Chamberlain ,
David Smith ,
Francis Bacon ,
Willem de Kooning ,
Milton Avery ,
Ellsworth Kelly ,
Louise Nevelson ,
Arshile Gorky ,
Edward Hopper ,
Larry Rivers , and
Raphael Soyer
among others. Outside the museum is a sculpture garden, featuring works by artists including
Auguste Rodin ,
Jeff Koons , and
Alexander Calder .
Opening hours
Smithsonian American Art Museum
The
Smithsonian American Art Museum
has an extensive collection of American art. Part of the Smithsonian Institution, the museum has a broad variety of American art that covers all regions and art movements found in the United States. Among the significant artists represented in its collection are
Nam June Paik ,
Jenny Holzer ,
David Hockney ,
Georgia O'Keeffe ,
John Singer Sargent ,
Albert Pinkham Ryder ,
Albert Bierstadt ,
Edmonia Lewis ,
Thomas Moran ,
James Gill ,
Edward Hopper , and
Winslow Homer .
Opening hours
National Portrait Gallery
The
National Portrait Gallery
is an art gallery administered by the Smithsonian Institution. Its collections focus on images of famous individual Americans.
Opening hours
Renwick Gallery
The
Renwick Gallery
is a branch of the Smithsonian American Art Museum, that focuses on American craft and decorative arts from the 19th century to the 21st century. It is housed in a National Historic Landmark building that was begun in 1859 on
Pennsylvania Avenue .
Opening hours
Anacostia Museum
The
Anacostia Museum
is a Smithsonian Institution museum in the
Anacostia
neighborhood of Washington, D.C. Its focus is the national history and culture of African Americans, for presentation to scholars and to all visitors—domestic and international.
Opening hours
National Postal Museum
The
National Postal Museum
located opposite
Union Station
was established through joint agreement between the
United States Postal Service
and the Smithsonian Institution and opened in 1993. The museum is located across in the
building that once served as the Main Post Office
of Washington, D.C. from 1914, when it was constructed, until 1986. The museum houses many interactive displays about the history of the United States Postal Service and of mail service around the world. Also on display is a vast collection of
stamps .
Opening hours
Smithsonian National Zoological Park
The
Smithsonian National Zoological Park
commonly known as the National Zoo, is one of the oldest zoos in the United States, and as part of the Smithsonian Institution, does not charge admission. The National Zoo has two campuses. The first is a 163-acre (66 ha) urban park located in northwest Washington, D.C. The other campus is the 3,200-acre (1,300 ha) Smithsonian Conservation Biology Institute (SCBI; formerly known as the Conservation and Research Center) in Front Royal, Virginia. Altogether, the two facilities contain 2,000 animals of 400 different species.
Opening hours
Retrieved from " https://wikimania2012.wikimedia.org/w/index.php?title=Washington,_D.C./Tourist_Attractions/de&oldid=22794 "
Categories :
Pages using duplicate arguments in template calls Local information
Navigation menu
Personal tools
English Log in
Namespaces
Page
Discussion
Variants
Views
Read
View source
View history
More
Search
About
Main Page Register Sponsor us Schedule Submissions Scholarships Press
Local Information
Address book About D.C. Venue Accommodation Transportation Tourist options Visas
Questions?
FAQ Information Desk Contact
About us
Attendees Volunteers Organizing team
Print/export
Create a book Download as PDF Printable version
Tools
What links here Related changes Special pages Permanent link Page information Cite this page
This page was last modified on 16 March 2012, at 22:47.
Text is available under the
Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License ;
additional terms may apply.
See
Terms of Use
for details.
Privacy policy
About Wikimania
Disclaimers
Developers
Mobile view