Local Wine & Cheese Class in Wilmington every Wednesday | Examiner.com
Skip to main content
Report this ad
In Leisure:
Food & Drink Travel Spa & Beauty Autos & Motorcycles Bars & Clubs
Facebook Twitter Google Plus Search
Leisure
Food & Drink
Drinks
See also:
wine
cheese
tasting
Wilmington
class
Local Wine & Cheese Class in Wilmington every Wednesday
Use your
key for the next article Next:
A tale of three Sonoma wineries: historic, vintage and youthful.
August 7, 2012
12:48 PM MST
Facebook
Twitter
Pinterest
Linkedin
Google Plus
Comment
Wine & Cheese Class Craig Schwartz
Wine & Cheese Class
Rating: Star 4 Star Star Star Star
This past Wednesday, August 1, 2012 a few of us adventured out to a unique shopping center called Independence Mall off of Route 202 near I-95. There are some unique treasures in this shopping center and
Ryan’s Wine & Spirits
is one of them.
Looks like every Wednesday this month they have a
Wine
&
Cheese
class
from 6:30PM to 7:30PM for $20. Ryan’s also has other tastings happening on Fridays and Saturdays. Check out their calendar on the web site.
The focus was on wines from the
Veneto region
of Italy. We had started out with Prosecco from Furlan Giuliano which was made in the
Spumante Extra Dry
style in the
Treviso region . The wine was very approachable and refreshing for being a hot humid day. Nice citrus flavors and maybe a soft hidden almond note. These Proseccos can be used for other cocktails such as a
mimosa
or the classic
Bellini cocktail
originating from Venice.
We then sampled a
Borgo Stajnbech
Pinot Grigio and Sauvignon wine. This was paired with
Talaggio cheese . The cheese was fabulous but a few of us were not fond of the
Pinot Grigio
and
Sauvignon
blended wine. Perhaps we were anxious to move onto the reds.
But we had one more white: Valent Bianco that is produce with 100% of the
Tocai Friulano
grape. Hmmmm... something I have never heard of before. The grape is well known for its
acidity . Perfect example of a soft wine and another great wine for the summer. Floral fragrance and more citrus notes reminded us that summer is here to stay.
Next was the Valent Rosso and
Aged Mahon cheese . The wine was fun, easy drinking medium body red that was made with a blend of
Merlot
and
Cabernet Sauvignon . This wine was produce in the stainless steel format. The combination was fantastic and I could have eaten this cheese all day.
Finally was the Borgo Stajnbech
Malbec . As we sampled this wine with gorgonzola cheese it proved to be too strong. But going back to the aged Mahon cheese and I was back in heaven. This Malbec was light in body. Perhaps lighter than expected would be a better comment. Hints of mocha with a mild undertone of smokiness with dark cherry flavors.
In an hour I learned of a new grape, how to shop for cheese while paying attention to the wrapping and look for no evidence of moisture, the purpose of those funny looking cheese knives, concepts on hosting a wine and cheese party plus the lack of ability of men regarding our skills with detecting acidity as opposed to women.
Wow! What a great hour with friends.
Check out Ryan's Wine & Spirit store. This is not the biggest in town but they do carry some unusual wines and cover a wide range of prices.
Map for Ryan's Wine & Spirit
Cheers, Your Local Oenophile
wilmwineexaminer@gmail.com
Report this content
Share
this article
Facebook
Twitter
Pinterest
Linkedin
Google Plus
Comment
Subscribe
to author
Comments
Craig Schwartz Wilmington Wine Examiner Craig A. Schwartz a local REALTOR® knows that "Location, Location, Location..." is just as important not only to Real Estate but one of life's greatest and oldest treasures-wine. His extensive experience in the Restaurant Industry was over twenty years. Developing wine lists over the years he is still passionate to explore and discover new wines. Donating his time and wine to local charities is another pleasure.
Contact Craig . Contact me
Featured
Video
Related
stories
Day of the Dead: History, customs in modern Mexican
and Pan de Muertos recipe
Doing craft beer and brewing right on an island in Maine
Tap Room grand opening at Whole Foods Market Blossom Hill in San Jose
Koloa announces Kaua'i Coffee Rum from Hawaii
Nothing scary about these Halloween inspired red wines
Leisure
highlights
Review : Smartphone Wallet from Harley-Davidson is perfect for rides around town Harley-Davidson has got some great new items in store for the 2015 holiday season and their Smartphone Leather Wallet for the ladies makes a perfect gift or stocking stuffer. It is made of lambskin...
Camera
Six best beauty looks from Black-ish star Tracee Ellis Ross Black actresses are definitely having a moment when it comes to drawing in audiences for TV shows. From Kerry Washington in “Scandal” to Viola Davis in “How to Get Away with Murder”, shows starring...
Next
Article
A tale of three Sonoma wineries: historic, vintage and youthful.
Report this ad
POPULAR
in FOOD & DRINK
Paula Deen’s amazing chicken casserole
Carnival squash recipes: 8 ways to cook the sweet, mellow vegetable
The best mashed potatoes and the best homemade gravy recipe ever
Easy Halloween dessert recipes for spooktacular parties
Christmas snack recipes: Ranch oyster crackers recipe
Order your 2015 Thanksgiving dinner to go at Publix
Kinnikinnick Foods’ new soft donuts take prepared doughnuts to a new level
Day of the Dead: History, customs in modern Mexican
and Pan de Muertos recipe
Halloween parties: 6 easy and creepy foods to serve
Apple recipe:
One extra little step makes this the best apple crisp recipe ever
TRENDING
on EXAMINER.COM
Final Jeopardy answer costs contestant $6000 as she unwittingly insults liberals
Three pit bulls rescued from Florida storm drain
Heartbroken dog begs his owner not to abandon him at shelter
Stunned passengers watch huge dog roll into first class on airplane
Skeletal dog fights for her life in Phoenix
Undercover sting results in arrest of man who wanted to have sex with animals
D'Arcee Neal: Severely disabled man on plane crawls down aisle
Saudi prince drug smuggling on private plane: Will Saudi prince be beheaded?
Megalodon teeth from mouth of 60-ft shark: Jaw-dropping find on N.C. shore
Florida hunter blows life away of nearly blind, old 'Grandfather Bear'
Report this ad
Report this ad
Facebook
Twitter
Linkedin
Google+
Pinterest
Company Links
About us
OnTopic custom content
The Rowdy
Advertise with us
Sitemap
Examiner.com Entertainment
| AXS Network | © 2006-2015 AXS Digital Group LLC d/b/a
Examiner.com |
Privacy Policy
|
Terms of Use
|
About us
Choose a Topic
Arts & Entertainment Arts & Entertainment Music Movies TV Arts & Exhibits Performing Arts Reality TV Celebrity Pop Culture Animation Young Adult Fiction Books Movie Reviews Comic Books AXS Entertainment AXS Entertainment Music Movies TV Arts & Exhibits Performing Arts NFL NHL MLB NBA Fight Sports Soccer Recreational Sports Reality TV Music Festivals News News Top News International News Strange News Science & Space Politics Elections Environment Extreme Weather Government Crime & Courts Business & Finance Same-Sex Marriage Small Business Stock Market Gun Control Global Warming Personal Finance Democrat Republican Political Buzz Marketing and PR Immigration Life Life Home & Living Pets Style & Fashion Family & Parenting Health & Fitness Education Religion & Spirituality Weight Loss & Dieting Weddings Gardening Home Improvement Relationships Green Living Nutrition Neighborhoods Careers & Workplace Sales & Deals Healthcare Jobs Hobbies Leisure Leisure Food & Drink Travel Spa & Beauty Autos & Motorcycles Bars & Clubs Recipes Drinks Budget Travel DIY Mechanic Auto Reviews Natural Beauty Luxury Travel Makeup Hair & Nails Sports Sports MLB NFL NBA NHL Soccer Fight Sports Recreational Sports College Sports General Sports Fantasy Sports Motorsports Hunting & Fishing Hiking Camping Running Equestrian Water Sports Action Sports Endurance Sports Recreation Tech Tech Gadgets & Tech Video Games Internet Tech Gear Tablets iPhone Google Glass Wearable Tech Xbox One Playstation 4 Photography MMOGs Handheld Games Facebook Anonymous Social Media Consoles Bitcoin Google Twitter Video Log In / Register Write for Us
Search