Explore wine, food and Venetian life at Venice’s wine bars | Examiner.com
Skip to main content
Report this ad
In Leisure:
Food & Drink Travel Spa & Beauty Autos & Motorcycles Bars & Clubs
Facebook Twitter Google Plus Search
Leisure
Food & Drink
Drinks
Explore wine, food and Venetian life at Venice’s wine bars
August 27, 2012
4:08 PM MST
Facebook
Twitter
Pinterest
Linkedin
Google Plus
Comment
Not only is
Venice , Italy's canal-lined city magical it is so much fun to check out its wine bars. In fact no Italian wine adventure is complete without taking time to visit a few of
Venice’s
bacaros (wine bars), or enotecas as they are sometimes called. During our last visit even though we had only two days in Venice I took the time to check out a few of its wine bars. With the increasing popularity of wine bars worldwide I was curious to see what Venice has to offer.
Spaswinefood
View all
7 photos
After arriving at Santa Lucia rail station or Marco Polo airport, most visitors to Venice head for the Grand Canal where they take water taxi. We did too. At Santa Lucia Train Station we bought tickets for the boat ride to Hotel Ca' Formenta. Soon we were traveling on the Grand Canal towards St. Mark's Square. One stop after St. Mark’s square we get off near our hotel in the Castello neighborhood.
Given there was so much to do and see immediately after arrival at our hotel we set out to explore Venice. Walking the side streets we rediscovered Venice while checking out its wine bars. Here are a few of the Venice’s wine bars that we discovered. The first one was very rustic style enoteca near the hotel where we stayed. The sign in the window said Enoteca Vini Sfusi. I later discovered that it was a vini sfusi or vini sfuso shop. Vini sfusi or vini sfuso are Venice wine shops where you can buy wine on draft. These are not the wine bars written up in most travel guides. They are however wine shops where the locals buy their wine. The
Soltovino Blog
has a few articles written on this very special type of wine shop ( Two more Vino Sfuso shops in Venice
and
Venice Vino Sfuso on our mind ).
Next day we made a few more wine bar discoveries. The first was Cantine del Vino gia Schiavi, one of Venice's wine bars closer to the style we see in North America (see articles by
CheapnYummy ,
Travel Savy ,
Uptake
and
Visit-Venice-Italy ). Then later we discovered
Osteria Enoteca Ai Artista , another wine bar. You will find reviews at
Tripadvisor . Unfortunately we were not ready to dine when we dropped by, because it looked like a great place.
Obviously, we did not discover all the wine bars in Venice. During my next trip I plan to use
redvisitor’s list
which includes some of Venice’s best wine bars, like Ca’ D’Oro (Alla Vedova), Al Meca, Naranzair, Bancogio and Al Pescador and Osteria Al Mascaroni. Also, I would check out the wine bar suggestions provided by sources such as the
approachguides ,
Chowhound , Tripadvisor and Susan Van Allen’s
My Mélange . What I have discovered is that Venetian bacaros are not just about wine ( ombra ) but it is also about sampling Venetian food. The bacaros serve
cichetti
(tidbits of food that come in small portions and are affordable). At the bacaros what one consumes are not only wine and food but also authentic Venetian life.
The charm of Venice is endless especially if you explore a few of its wine bars. If you are off to check out wines at a Venice bacari, or anywhere else wine related in Italy then you might be interested in a quick overview of Italian wines. Italy uses a wine classification system with the following
four categories :
1. Vino da Tavola (VDT) is a basic wine made for local consumption.
2. Indicazione Geografica Tipica (IGT) is a wine from a specific region that is considered to be a higher quality than table wine.
3. Denominazione di Origine (DOC) wine requires that the wine zone is more specific than an IGT, the grapes used are more specifically defined and it must meet other criteria.
4. Denominazione di Origine e Garantita (DOCG) wine exceeds the DOC requirements. It must under go verification that the quality standards have been met. This requires a blind taste review.
The latter two categories (DOC, DOCG) fall under EU system
Quality Wine Produced in Specified Regions (QWpsr) .
Alfonso Acevola
has posted a list of Italian DOCG's with a
map . For those who prefer a simpler overview just order what the locals do, such as a glass of sparkling white Prosecco. However, do not forget to try a
Bellini , a cocktail made from Prosecco and peach purée while in Venice.
I invite you to join me in my travels in Italy and elsewhere in search of the best in
Spaswinefood , or visit my
travel column
at the
Examiner .
© Sharon Parsons
Follow me on
Twitter
and
Facebook
You can receive email alerts when new articles are published, by clicking subscribe in the top left hand corner. You will not be spammed and can unsubscribe at any time.
Suggested
Links
A wine adventure in Tuscany
Chile's Colchagua Valley Wine Region
Chile's Casablanca Valley Wine Region
Escape on an Argentine trout and wine vacation
Escape to Alto Adige, Italy to discover amazing wine, food and beauty
Report this content
Share
this article
Facebook
Twitter
Pinterest
Linkedin
Google Plus
Comment
Subscribe
to author
Comments
Sharon Parsons Drinks Examiner After leaving academia, Sharon knew she would do something. Driving overland from Deadhorse, Alaska to Ushuaia, Argentina, led her in a new direction. The adventure started with a new iPhone and an interest in spas. By the time she reached Colombia, she was also drawn to food. Later, traveling through Chile and Argentina wine was added. With a Spaswinefood lens for her travels, she blogs at
Spaswinefood.blogspot.com . Contact her at
Spaswinefood@gmail.com
or on twitter. Twitter
Contact me
Featured
Video
Related
stories
Day of the Dead: History, customs in modern Mexican
and Pan de Muertos recipe
Doing craft beer and brewing right on an island in Maine
Tap Room grand opening at Whole Foods Market Blossom Hill in San Jose
Koloa announces Kaua'i Coffee Rum from Hawaii
Nothing scary about these Halloween inspired red wines
Leisure
highlights
Review : Smartphone Wallet from Harley-Davidson is perfect for rides around town Harley-Davidson has got some great new items in store for the 2015 holiday season and their Smartphone Leather Wallet for the ladies makes a perfect gift or stocking stuffer. It is made of lambskin...
Camera
Six best beauty looks from Black-ish star Tracee Ellis Ross Black actresses are definitely having a moment when it comes to drawing in audiences for TV shows. From Kerry Washington in “Scandal” to Viola Davis in “How to Get Away with Murder”, shows starring...
Report this ad
POPULAR
in FOOD & DRINK
Paula Deen’s amazing chicken casserole
Carnival squash recipes: 8 ways to cook the sweet, mellow vegetable
The best mashed potatoes and the best homemade gravy recipe ever
Easy Halloween dessert recipes for spooktacular parties
Christmas snack recipes: Ranch oyster crackers recipe
Order your 2015 Thanksgiving dinner to go at Publix
Kinnikinnick Foods’ new soft donuts take prepared doughnuts to a new level
Day of the Dead: History, customs in modern Mexican
and Pan de Muertos recipe
Halloween parties: 6 easy and creepy foods to serve
Apple recipe:
One extra little step makes this the best apple crisp recipe ever
TRENDING
on EXAMINER.COM
Final Jeopardy answer costs contestant $6000 as she unwittingly insults liberals
Three pit bulls rescued from Florida storm drain
Heartbroken dog begs his owner not to abandon him at shelter
Stunned passengers watch huge dog roll into first class on airplane
Skeletal dog fights for her life in Phoenix
Undercover sting results in arrest of man who wanted to have sex with animals
D'Arcee Neal: Severely disabled man on plane crawls down aisle
Saudi prince drug smuggling on private plane: Will Saudi prince be beheaded?
Megalodon teeth from mouth of 60-ft shark: Jaw-dropping find on N.C. shore
Florida hunter blows life away of nearly blind, old 'Grandfather Bear'
Report this ad
Report this ad
Facebook
Twitter
Linkedin
Google+
Pinterest
Company Links
About us
OnTopic custom content
The Rowdy
Advertise with us
Sitemap
Examiner.com Entertainment
| AXS Network | © 2006-2015 AXS Digital Group LLC d/b/a
Examiner.com |
Privacy Policy
|
Terms of Use
|
About us
Choose a Topic
Arts & Entertainment Arts & Entertainment Music Movies TV Arts & Exhibits Performing Arts Reality TV Celebrity Pop Culture Animation Young Adult Fiction Books Movie Reviews Comic Books AXS Entertainment AXS Entertainment Music Movies TV Arts & Exhibits Performing Arts NFL NHL MLB NBA Fight Sports Soccer Recreational Sports Reality TV Music Festivals News News Top News International News Strange News Science & Space Politics Elections Environment Extreme Weather Government Crime & Courts Business & Finance Same-Sex Marriage Small Business Stock Market Gun Control Global Warming Personal Finance Democrat Republican Political Buzz Marketing and PR Immigration Life Life Home & Living Pets Style & Fashion Family & Parenting Health & Fitness Education Religion & Spirituality Weight Loss & Dieting Weddings Gardening Home Improvement Relationships Green Living Nutrition Neighborhoods Careers & Workplace Sales & Deals Healthcare Jobs Hobbies Leisure Leisure Food & Drink Travel Spa & Beauty Autos & Motorcycles Bars & Clubs Recipes Drinks Budget Travel DIY Mechanic Auto Reviews Natural Beauty Luxury Travel Makeup Hair & Nails Sports Sports MLB NFL NBA NHL Soccer Fight Sports Recreational Sports College Sports General Sports Fantasy Sports Motorsports Hunting & Fishing Hiking Camping Running Equestrian Water Sports Action Sports Endurance Sports Recreation Tech Tech Gadgets & Tech Video Games Internet Tech Gear Tablets iPhone Google Glass Wearable Tech Xbox One Playstation 4 Photography MMOGs Handheld Games Facebook Anonymous Social Media Consoles Bitcoin Google Twitter Video Log In / Register Write for Us
Search