Coffee and Espresso, What’s the Difference? | Coffee Culture Corvallis
Skip to content
Home My Wonderful Mom Photos
←
Memorial Day Service in Corvallis at the National Guard Armory
Corvallis, Finals and Coffee: Tweets of the Week
→
Coffee and Espresso, What’s the Difference?
Posted on
June 9, 2012
by
admin
One of the most common questions we are asked at our coffee shops is, “what is the difference between a “cup of coffee” and
espresso ?”
Since we haven’t all spent time lounging around the espresso bars of Italy it is a fair question. The short answer is that they are different methods used to brew coffee.
By “cup of coffee” most people are referring to coffee that is produced using a
filter-drip brewer
(think Mr. Coffee) or purchased at their favorite coffee shop as “house coffee”.
The drip method typically uses an automatic brewer where cold water is poured in at the top, is heated, and then is poured evenly over the ground coffee. A filter is used to contain the grounds and remove sediment as the brewed coffee drips into a decanter or air pot to then be served. Most new filter-drip brewers produce a fairly clean cup of coffee.
Espresso, translated from Italian meaning rapid, uses an entirely different method. The espresso machine is basically a hi-tech boiler which allows the user to control things like water temperature, pressure and brew time. Hot water, under pressure, is forced through finely ground coffee for about 30 seconds to produce a 1oz. “shot” of espresso coffee featuring intense flavors and a heavy, syrupy body.
Espresso is traditionally enjoyed by itself or with sugar, but many popular drinks are made with espresso combined with milk and perhaps chocolate or as with the café
Americano , just hot water. Espresso machines range in cost from $100 to $20,000, the higher range machines essentially giving the barista more finite control of the brew variables.
All of that being said, what these very different methods have in common is that they can each produce exceptional coffee and help to create enjoyable moments in our lives – a very good thing!
What have you wanted to know about coffee? Please share your question here as a comment and we will answer as best we can as a comment or in a blog post.
This entry was posted in
Coffee . Bookmark the
permalink .
←
Memorial Day Service in Corvallis at the National Guard Armory
Corvallis, Finals and Coffee: Tweets of the Week
→
Leave a Reply
Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published.
Name
Email
Website
Comment
You may use these
HTML
tags and attributes:
<a href="" title=""> <abbr title=""> <acronym title=""> <b> <blockquote cite=""> <cite> <code> <del datetime=""> <em> <i> <q cite=""> <strike> <strong>
Search this blog
Search for:
Connect with Coffee Culture
Go to our website
Find us on Twitter
Subscribe by Email
Enter your email address: Delivered by
FeedBurner
Archives
August 2014
May 2014
March 2014
June 2013
April 2013
February 2013
December 2012
November 2012
October 2012
September 2012
August 2012
July 2012
June 2012
May 2012
April 2012
Categories
Brewing
(3)
Coffee
(23)
Community
(23)
Downtown
(3)
For Fun
(23)
Good Eats
(2)
Inspiration
(13)
Roasting
(5)
Staff
(10)
summer
(6)
The Fearless Five
(1)
Uncategorized
(2)
Recent Comments goulds pumps from Slaymaker Group
on
Meet the Crew Pt. 3- A Cultured Encounter at Timberhill Drive-Thru No eligible keywords returned!
on
Meet the Crew Pt. 3- A Cultured Encounter at Timberhill Drive-Thru No eligible keywords returned!
on
Meet the Crew: The Final Edition- Annexed!! Detailed Info
on
Meet the Crew Pt. 3- A Cultured Encounter at Timberhill Drive-Thru Sunset Barns
on
Meet the Crew Pt. 3- A Cultured Encounter at Timberhill Drive-Thru
Coffee Culture Corvallis
Proudly powered by WordPress.