Helen Gurley Brown, Author And Editrix, Dies At 90 | The Militant Negro™
Twitter Facebook Google+ Tumblr
Menu
A Negro Am I Black History Blogs I Follow Domestic Violence ELECTION 2016: Who Is Running for President (and Who’s Not)? HANDS UP 4 JUSTICE APP HANK JOHNSON JUSTICE FUND I’m Voting For Dr. Jill Stein For POTUS In 2016. Injustice KILLED BY POLICE Statistics My Favorite You Tube Channels ObamaCARES People we lost in 2015: Remembering Them. Racism Social Justice Resources The MilitantNegro™ The Movement To Stop Black Genocide The Rules Trans-Pacific Partnership: Educate Yourself. Voices Crying OUT What Is Racism. Who Can Be A Racists. AND Whom Can NOT.
The Militant Negro™
Politics.
Food.
Thoughts & Opinions. Facts & Truth.
Art & Poetry. All The Militant Way.
Search for...

✿ Welcome ✿
Dr. Jill Stein: FLUSH Obama’s TPP. FLUSH The TPP
Jill Stein For President 2016 Grassroots Supporters
Jill Stein For President 2016 Grassroots Supporters
Registration INFO
If YOU Don't VOTE, Then You Don't Complain. GET OUT AND VOTE
Blogging The Facts & Truth Since 12/13/11
2,894,224 Visits
Follow Mr MilitantNegro™ via Email
Enter your email address to Want to get post updates by e-mail....fill this out!
Join 48,116 other followers
Bloggers 4 Peace Bloggers For Peace: People Engaged Aligned Committed Evolving
Every Town Gun Sense Everytown For Gun Safety. Please Support.
SentencingProject UnFair Sentencing Is Racist.
Moms Demand Action #NotOneMore Enough Is Enough.
Gun Sense Voter Support Local Laws To Reduce Gun Violence
Mandela Foundation.
Nelson Mandela Madiba
Malcolm X Diary “If you have no critics you'll likely have no success.”
New Trial 4 Cyntoia Brown Serving A Life Sentence At 16. Please Sign Her Petition.
Social Awareness
Standing Up For The Innocent
Black & Missing We Will Not Forget You
Palestine Children’s Relief Fund.
Return Gaza To Palestine
Regal Queen My Activism Stand With Humanity. Help Save The Human Race.
Deadly Force In Black & White
Black Genocide By Law Enforcement
Patient Protection & Affordable Care Act Facts ObamaCARES Education.
My Brothers Keeper
ObamaCARES: Get Covered. Enroll & Get Covered.
The Obama Foundation Eight years is only the beginning. Join The Obama Foundation Today.
MilitantNegro™ Time Travel Random Post From The Past
InJustice Stop The Injustice
Hands Up Don’t Shoot.
Justice For Mike Brown. #BlackLivesMatter
Trayvon Martin Foundation #Hoodies Still Up 4 Trayvon
Justice 4 IRP6 Bring The 6 Home
Set Tyra Patterson Free Sign The Petition Please.
Stop Military Rape There Is No Rape Culture.
NO Human Trafficking
Please Stop Human Slavery
STOP Bullying Bullying IS Dumb
LGBTQ Equality
LGBTQ Community News
MixedRaceFamily Beautiful Faces Of Mixed Races
The Black Panther Party For Self Defense Justice "By Any Means Necessary"
The Top 50 Accomplishments
Save Medicare Save Our Seniors
Women 4 Women International Bring Back Our Girls
When Injustice Becomes Law Rebellion Becomes Duty #Uhuru #Umoja
Presidential Actions
Help Fight Human Slavery Bring Back Our Girls
The MilitantNegro™ Instagram Fave 1st Lady Michelle Obama On Instagrahm
The MilitantNegro™ Instagram Fave White House Photographer Pete Souza
Thanks For Visiting The MilitantNegro™
Disagree Intelligently Use The Facts/Truth™ #AnonLaFamilia Siamo anonimi. Noi non perdoniamo. Noi non dimentichiamo. Noi siamo una legione. Aspettatevi Us. .
Celebrity
Helen Gurley Brown, Author And Editrix, Dies At 90
By
Mr. Militant Negro
on
August 14, 2012
•
(
Leave a comment
)
By Jueseppi B.
Helen Gurley Brown
and her husband,
David Brown , in 1979. ( Los Angeles
Times)
by Carolyn KelloggAugust 13, 2012, 1:12 p.m.
Helen Gurley Brown, longtime editor of
Cosmopolitan magazine
and author of the classic 1962 book “ Sex and the Single Girl ,” died Monday. She was 90.
Brown joined Cosmopolitan in 1965 and served as its editor for 32 years, giving it its signature pro-sex, love-quiz, headline-popping style. She retired from the magazine in 1997.
In January of this year, just weeks before turning 90, Brown donated $30 million to the
Columbia Graduate School of Journalism
and the Stanford School of Engineering to establish the David and Helen Gurley Brown Institute for Media Innovation.
Those significant funds didn’t come solely from Brown’s long and unflagging career in publishing; David Brown was a movie producer whose credits included “Jaws,” “Cocoon,” “ The Verdict ,” “ Driving Miss Daisy ,” “Chocolat” and “A Few Good Men.” David died in 2010.
Brown was born in the
Ozarks
in Arkansas and raised partly in Los Angeles. She worked as a secretary in L.A. and then, like Peggy in “ Mad Men ,” worked her way up to be an advertising copywriter. She had married David Brown before writing her 1962 bestseller “Sex and the Single Girl,” a live-it-up guide to how a modern woman could conveniently manage having an affair with a married man.
Even late in life, Helen Gurley Brown liked to be sexy and somewhat shocking. While promoting her book “I’m Wild Again: Snippets From My Life and a Few Brazen Thoughts,” she told one reporter that she and her husband — ages 73 and 80, respectively — had enjoyed sex the night before.
Brown’s reputation as author and editor shifted over time, but her exuberant, sex-positive work is now often thought of as feminist and even radical.
Helen Gurley Brown  (February 18, 1922 – August 13, 2012) was an American  author ,  publisher , and businesswoman. She was  editor-in-chief  of  Cosmopolitan  magazine for 32 years.
Early life
Brown was born in  Green Forest, Arkansas , the daughter of Cleo and Ira Marvin Gurley. Her mother was born in  Alpena ,  Arkansas  and died in 1980. Her father was once appointed Commissioner of the Arkansas Game and Fish Commission. The family moved to  Little Rock, Arkansas , after Ira won an election to the Arkansas state legislature. [4]  He died in an elevator accident on June 18, 1932. In 1937, Brown, her sister Mary, and their mother moved to  Los Angeles ,  California . A few months after moving, Mary contracted  polio . While in California, Brown attended  John H. Francis Polytechnic High School .
After Brown’s graduation, the family moved to  Warm Springs ,  Georgia . Brown attended one semester at  Texas State College for Women  and then moved back to California to attend  Woodbury Business College . She graduated in 1941. In 1947, Cleo and Mary moved to Osage, Arkansas, while Brown stayed in Los Angeles.
After working at the  William Morris Agency ,  Music Corporation of America , and  Jaffe  talent agencies she went to work for  Foote, Cone & Belding  advertising agency as a secretary. Her employer recognized her writing skills and moved her to the  copywriting  department where she advanced rapidly to become one of the nation’s highest paid ad copywriters in the early 1960s. In 1959 she married  David Brown , who would become the producer of  The Sting ,  Jaws ,  Cocoon ,  Driving Miss Daisy , and other motion pictures.
Publishing
In 1962, when she was 40, her bestselling book  Sex and the Single Girl  was published. In 1965, she became editor-in-chief of  Cosmopolitan  and reversed the fortunes of the failing magazine. During the decade of the 1960s she was an outspoken advocate of women’s  sexual freedom  and sought to provide them with role-models and a guide in her magazine. She claimed that women could have it all, “love, sex, and money”, a view that even preceding feminists such as  Betty Friedan  and  Germaine Greer  did not support at all and has been met with notable opposition by advocates of grass-roots devotion of women to family and marriage. Due to her advocacy, glamorous, fashion-focused women were sometimes called “Cosmo Girls”. Her work played a part in what is often called the  sexual revolution .
In 1997, Brown was ousted from her role as the U.S. editor of  Cosmopolitan  and was replaced by  Bonnie Fuller . When she left,  Cosmopolitan  ranked sixth at the newsstand, and for the 16th straight year, ranked first in bookstores on college campuses. However, she stayed on at  Hearst  publishing and remained the international editor for all 59 international editions of  Cosmo  until her death on August 13, 2012.
In September, 2008, she was named the 13th most powerful American over the age of 80 by  Slate  magazine.
After more than 50 years of marriage, her husband, David Brown, died at age 93 on February 1, 2010.
Together with her husband David, Helen Gurley established the David and Helen Gurley  Brown Institute for Media Innovation . This institution will be housed at both the  Columbia University Graduate School of Journalism  and  Stanford’s Engineering School . Their $30 million donation to the two schools will be used to develop journalism in the context of new technologies.
Death
Brown died at the McKeen Pavilion at  New York–Presbyterian Hospital / Columbia  after a brief hospitalization; she was 90. In its statement announcing the news, Hearst Publications did not disclose a cause. The company said, “Helen was one of the world’s most recognized magazine editors and book authors, and a true pioneer for women in journalism—and beyond.”  Entertainment Weekly  said that “Gurley Brown will be remembered for her impact on the publishing industry, her contributions to the culture at large, and sly quips like her famous line: ‘Good girls go to heaven. Bad girls go everywhere.'” New York Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  in a statement said, “Today New York City lost a pioneer who reshaped not only the entire media industry, but the nation’s culture. She was a role model for the millions of women whose private thoughts, wonders and dreams she addressed so brilliantly in print.”
Awards
1985 Matrix Award from New York Women in Communications
1995: Henry Johnson Fisher Award from the Magazine Publishers of America
1996: American Society of Magazine Editors’ Hall of Fame Award
1998 Editor of the Year by  Advertising Age  magazine
Works
Sex and the Single Girl  (1962)
Lessons In Love —LP Record on How To Love A Girl & How To Love A Man (1963) Crescendo Records, GNP #604
Sex and the Office  (1965)
Outrageous Opinions of Helen Gurley Brown  (1967)
Helen Gurley Brown’s Single Girl’s Cookbook  (1969)
Sex and the New Single Girl  (1970)
Having It All  (1982)
The Late Show: A Semi Wild but Practical Guide for Women Over 50  (1993)
The Writer’s Rules: The Power of Positive Prose—How to Create It and Get It Published  (1998)
I’m Wild Again: Snippets from My Life and a Few Brazen Thoughts  (2000)
Share this: Facebook Twitter Pinterest Google Tumblr Pocket Reddit LinkedIn Email Like this: Like
Loading...
Related
Categories:
Celebrity ,
News ,
Obituary ,
Photography & Images ,
Women's Causes
Tagged as:
Arkansas ,
California ,
Cosmopolitan ,
David Brown ,
Helen Gurley Brown ,
Helen Gurley Brown Dies ,
Los Angeles ,
Sex and the Single Girl
Post navigation
The Obama Truth Team Tipsheet
Next Post
Reply At Your Own Risk. Leave The Dumbfuckery At The Door.
Cancel reply
Enter your comment here...
Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:
Email
(required)
(Address never made public)
Name
(required)
Website
You are commenting using your WordPress.com account.
(  Log Out  /  Change  )
You are commenting using your Twitter account.
(  Log Out  /  Change  )
You are commenting using your Facebook account.
(  Log Out  /  Change  )
You are commenting using your Google+ account.
(  Log Out  /  Change  )
Cancel
Connecting to %s
Notify me of new comments via email.
Notify me of new posts via email.
#ILoveBlackWomenBecause The Black Woman Is Everything And Everything Is The Black Woman.
This slideshow requires JavaScript.
Why I’m Voting For Dr. Jill Ellen Stein For POTUS In 2016. Do YOU Know Who Dr. Jill Stein Is? Get Acquainted With Dr. Jill. Next POTUS.
KEEP EYES ON THE POLICE. NATIONAL POLICE VIOLENCE MAPPING TOOL. Tool designed to help you hold Elected Officials accountable for police violence.
The Historic 1st In The Nation 2016 Iowa Caucus 2016 Iowa Caucus Happens On February 1st, 2016 3
months
to go. 2016 Presidential Election. Get Registered. Vote. We Elect The 45th President In The 58th Quadrennial U.S. Presidential Election On November 8th, 2016 12
months
to go. Countdown To Inauguration Day Friday, January 20, 2017 Inauguration Day Is Fast Approaching. January 20th, 2017 14
months
to go. TRUTH- A RIGHT TO FIGHT FOR On Wordpress A Truthful Tragedy
EVERYTOWN FOR GUN SAFETY: Donate $ 25.00 And Get Your “Not One More” Leather Bracelet
For A Donation Of $25 Bracelet In Men's OR Women's Style.
Stark Images: #BlackLivesMatter
This slideshow requires JavaScript.
Join #1000Speak
The Tilted Tiara
Sottomessa Kiss Scarlett Baker Poetry & Erotica
Erotic Novel “MINE!!” Now available!
Scarlet Baker Turns It Up
Redmund Productions. “GO Red. GET Read” eBook Publishing Available Here.
Scarlett Baker Author Of “MINE” An Erotic Novel.
The Movement In Images
This slideshow requires JavaScript.
The Twitter Storm™
KilledByPolice My Tweets Dr. Jill Stein My Tweets Moms Demand Action My Tweets EverytownForGunSafety My Tweets A Poetic Tragedy My Tweets @MrNegroMilitant My Tweets Facebook Fan Pages
Dr. Jill Stein For POTUS 2016
Dr. Jill Stein For POTUS 2016
Killed By Police
Killed By Police
Filming Cops
Filming Cops
Malcolm X Grassroots Movement
Malcolm X Grassroots Movement
Moms Demand Action
Moms Demand Action
TheMilitantNegro™
TheMilitantNegro™
Who Is The MilitantNegro™
Unapologetic Negro. I Fight Injustice, Racism, Oppression. I Absofuckinlutely HATE Guns. I'm Allergic to Dumbfuckery. Negro Is Derived From Negroid Race. I Am NOT Black/African American. We Are Anonymous. We Do Not Forgive. We Do Not Forget. .
Mr MilitantNegro™ Archives
October 2015
September 2015
August 2015
July 2015
June 2015
May 2015
April 2015
March 2015
February 2015
January 2015
December 2014
November 2014
October 2014
September 2014
August 2014
July 2014
June 2014
May 2014
April 2014
March 2014
February 2014
January 2014
December 2013
November 2013
October 2013
September 2013
August 2013
July 2013
June 2013
May 2013
April 2013
March 2013
February 2013
January 2013
December 2012
November 2012
October 2012
September 2012
August 2012
July 2012
June 2012
May 2012
April 2012
March 2012
February 2012
January 2012
December 2011
The MilitantNegro™ Article Search
Search for...

Mr MilitantNegro™ Catagories Mr MilitantNegro™ Catagories
Select Category
2014 Mid Term Elections
Abortion Rights
Abuse To Women
Abuse/Domestic Violence/VAWA
Affordable Health Care Act
Art
Art & Poetry
Automobiles
Awards
Bad News
Barack After Dark
Barack’s Blog
Baseball
Basketball
Black Genocide
Black Genocide Movement
Black History
Book Reviews
Books
Boxing
Breaking News
Bullying
Business
Campaign Ads
Cartoons
Causes
Celebrity
Celebs & Fame
Charity/Giving
Chicago Blackhawks Hockey
Child Abuse
Climate Change
Comedy
Comments
Congress
Cooking
Cooking Food Recipes
Court Room/Legal
Crime
Daily White House Schedule
Dance
Disaster
DOJ
Domestic Violence
Drugs
Dumb Shit
Dumbshit Stories
Economy
Emergency
Entertainment
Equal Pay
Erotica/Sex
Event
Everytown for Gun Safety
Expert Pundits
Featured
FeaturedOne
Finance
Food
Food Art Poetry
Football
Foreign Polocy
Fun & Games
Golf
GOPukes/RepubliCANTS
Gun Control
Gun Violence
Guns Guns Guns
Happy Happy
Health
History
Holidays
Homeless
Hunger
Immigration Issues
Inauguration
Information & Links
Injustice
Interview
Jill Biden
Jobs
Joy & Happiness
Keep Hope Alive
LGBT Community
Medicare/Medicaid/Social Security
Mental Health
Michelle Obama
Missing Children
Missing Person
Moms Demand Action
Movie Reviews
Movies
Music
News
NRA
Obama Truth Team
Obama Week In Review
ObamaCares (AHCA)
Obituary
Opinion
Organizing For Action
Petitions
Photographs
Photography & Images
Poetry
Police Brutality
Politics
Race
Racism
Rape/Sexual Assault
Recipes
Recipes ~ Food
Religion
Satire
Speech
Sports
Tennis
The Art Game
The ObamaCares Files
The Potpourri
The Soapbox
The Wake Up Call
The White House Daily Snapshot
Thoughts Opinions & Ideas
Trayvon Benjamin Martin
TV Show
Tweets
Uncategorized
Vice President Joseph Biden
Voter Suppression
Voting & Voter Rights
Voting Rights Act Of 1965
War & the Military
Weather Emergency
White House
White House Blog
Women’s Causes
WWE
Are YOU Lost??
What you doing way down here? I appreciate you traveling all the way down to the bottom of this blog. Not Many Do That. Thank You. Namaste. .
Top categories:
Politics
/
Featured
/
News
/
Causes
/
Food Art Poetry
/
Keep Hope Alive
/
Guns Guns Guns
/
Photography & Images
/
Happy Happy
/
Black Genocide Movement Top tags:
United States
/
Barack Obama
/
Featured
/
Obama
/
White House
/
BarackObama
/
Featured
/
Michelle Obama
/
News
/
Politics Social links:
Twitter Facebook Google+ Tumblr
Blog at WordPress.com .
|
The Chronicle Theme .
Follow
Follow “The Militant Negro™”
Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.
Join 48,116 other followers
Build a website with WordPress.com
Send to Email Address
Your Name
Your Email Address
Cancel
Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
%d
bloggers like this:
Add your thoughts here... (optional)
Post to
Cancel