Christian Scientist lives to ripe old age of 107 after a life of ‘great service’ – Sheffield Telegraph story
|
Perspectives on Healing Prayer
PRIVACY POLICY
TERMS OF SERVICE
Perspectives on Healing Prayer
Articles by Christian Science media representatives in the UK and the Republic of Ireland.
About
National
Regional
Christian Science
You are here:
Home
»
Christian Scientist lives to ripe old age of 107 after a life of ‘great service’ – Sheffield Telegraph story
October 1, 2010
|
2 Comments
Christian Scientist lives to ripe old age of 107 after a life of ‘great service’ – Sheffield Telegraph story
Okay, that wasn’t quite the way the headline read in today’s
Sheffield Telegraph . The article is actually entitled  Ex-teacher dies at 107 after ‘great service’ .
It is further along in this appreciative obituary that it says that former
Sheffield teacher Maisie Linstead – from ‘a generation of women who were once banned from teaching’ but ‘got a job in Rotherham where she could give children “the gift of literacy”’ – was a Christian Scientist.
After outlining his mother’s life of achievement, her son explained to the Telegraph that Maisie “also had great faith and was a member of the
Christian Science Church , which is something she believed kept her healthy. We took her to the doctors when she was 99 and her medical card said that she had not been seen by anybody for 50 years. Our mother loved a good laugh, loved children and her family and shared and delighted in other people’s happiness. She lived a very full and a very happy life and for that we are very proud.”
Thanks to the Sheffield Telegraph for printing this good news human interest story and for perhaps throwing some light onto an even-better-news spiritual interest story: not that the Church of Christ, Scientist per se keeps anyone healthy, but that the Christian Science healing practice at the core of its teaching is an effective approach to healthcare.
As is the case with all healthcare approaches, Christian Science practice does not have a 100% success record. But Maisie’s example of going decades without any medical attention and still living a long and healthy life is not unusual…
In my position as media representative of Christian Science in the UK this is the third individual I have learned about in recent years who has routinely relied on Christian Science for their healthcare and has been happily in a position to receive that
100th birthday congratulatory telegraph from the Queen .
The Gospel record in the Bible of the life of Jesus is not called “the good news” for nothing.  The
healing Principle Jesus practised
is alive and well, and an explanation of how to apply this Christian spirituality to practical needs today is available for all to explore in  Science and Health with Key to the Scriptures .
Mary Baker Eddy, the author of Science and Health, lived to the ripe old age of 89 herself in an era when women’s average life expectancy was considerably less.  In her senior years,
Cosmopolitan
magazine (in its early incarnation as “a family magazine”!) wrote of her:  “ Certainly, Christian Scientists, enthusiastic in their belief, are fortunate in being able to point to a Leader far beyond the allotted years of man, emerging triumphantly from all attacks upon her, and guiding with remarkable skill, determination, and energy a very great organization that covers practically the civilized world.”
Here
is news of a Christian Scientist celebrating a 100 years “across the pond” in the USA.
And here is how Cosmopolitan looked back when it published Mary Baker Eddy compared to how it looks now…
Rate this: I am grateful to everyone who spreads the word. Thank you! Twitter Facebook Pocket Pinterest Email Print Reddit LinkedIn Google Tumblr Like this: Like
Loading...
Related
Tags:
Bible ,
Christian Science ,
Jesus ,
Prayer for Healing ,
Science and Health with Key to the Scriptures ,
Sheffield ,
Sheffield Telegraph ,
spirituality ,
women's spirituality Categories:
Christian Science ,
Christianity ,
Healing in the Media ,
Positive Press ,
Prayer for Healing ,
Spiritual healing ,
Women's spiritual leadership
Author: Tony Lobl
I write and speak on spirituality and health from my perspective as a Christian Science practitioner. In addition, I am the media and legislative liaison for Christian Science in the UK and the Republic of Ireland.
I studied at the University of Surrey earning a BSc Hons Degree in Modern Mathematics before the impact of spirituality on health caught my attention and re-shaped my career.
View all posts by Tony Lobl
→
If you want to keep updated...
Subscribe to our RSS feed and social profiles to receive updates.
←
Beating the atheists at their own game…namely knowing about religion!?
A Saturday night at the movies…Val Kilmer shares his screenplay on Mark Twain/Mary Baker Eddy
→
2 Comments on “Christian Scientist lives to ripe old age of 107 after a life of ‘great service’ – Sheffield Telegraph story”
Reply
Cliff Sebring
October 2, 2010 at 3:25 pm
#
I like the title you gave the article.
So often we read a new report and it does not seem to go along with the title and we are disappointed.
I found the article to be a wonderful sharing of “good news”.
We can all learn from each other and be energized as opposed to being swallowed up in negativity.
Thanks for sharing!
Reply
loblt
October 2, 2010 at 7:39 pm
#
Thanks, Cliff.
It is an incredible joy and privilege being able to write the headlines to one’s own articles.
Some copy writers have done me proud with my published articles in the past, others have evidenced that they haven’t grasped what I have written…
If I write my own, I have no-one to blame but myself!
:)
Let me know what you think!
Cancel reply
Enter your comment here...
Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:
Email
(required)
(Address never made public)
Name
(required)
Website
You are commenting using your WordPress.com account.
(  Log Out  /  Change  )
You are commenting using your Twitter account.
(  Log Out  /  Change  )
You are commenting using your Facebook account.
(  Log Out  /  Change  )
You are commenting using your Google+ account.
(  Log Out  /  Change  )
Cancel
Connecting to %s
Notify me of new comments via email.
Notify me of new posts via email.
Search the site!
Email Subscription
Enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Join 3,344 other followers
Global perspectives
Boston Manager on Washington Post
from Boston – global media manager!
from Canada…
from France…
from Massachusetts…
from Missouri…
from New South Wales…
from Northern California…
from Queensland…
from Tasmania…
from Texas…
from Washington State…
from Western Australia…
About
This website features articles by Christian Science media representatives in the UK and the Republic of Ireland.
For contact details of a national or regional media representative, please copy and paste the following URL: http://www.christianscience.co.uk
To contact the District Manager's Office:
Tel: +44-020-8150-0245
Email: LondonCS@csps.com
Comments Popular Latest Tags
From belief to faith, from faith to understanding… | Rudolf Meyer, CS: […] Fonte: From belief to faith, from faith to understanding… […]
Sandi: What a great definition of a Perfect 10 - spiritually satisfied and happy at the end of each day.
Sandi: Thank you for this!
How useful to idenity hate as an imposition of violent thinking.
And to recognize …
The King’s Speech – Lionel Logue and the Christian Science question
January 7, 2011
100 reflections on why Mary Baker Eddy’s life and ideas still resonate 100 years on!
December 3, 2010
Emerging from the shadow of the Holocaust – my three transitional moments
January 27, 2011
One minute read – practising healing love
October 23, 2015
From belief to faith, from faith to understanding…
October 16, 2015
Happiness and satisfaction guaranteed? Get to know God!
October 12, 2015
atheism
BBC
Bible
Christianity
Christian Science
Christmas
Consciousness
CS
depression
Drugs
faith
forgiveness
God
Happiness
healing
health
health care
healthcare
hope
Jesus
Love
Mary Baker Eddy
media
medicine
meditation
mental health
mind-body-medicine
Peace
Placebos
postaday2011
prayer
Prayer and Meditation
Prayer for Healing
religion
Science and Health
Science and Health with Key to the Scriptures
Spiritual Development
spiritual growth
spiritual healing
spirituality
tag
tag1
Tony Lobl
wellbeing
women's spirituality
Other ways to keep updated...
Subscribe to our RSS feed and social profiles to receive updates.
Info on images
Except where identified by name, all the images of people on this website are models for illustrative purposes only.
Images not produced by the blog writer himself are @Glowimages, as clearly noted wherever captioning is possible.
Images attributed to the blog author - Tony Lobl - might be re-used if permission is sought, the other images have been commercially purchased and are not reusable under any circumstances.
Sign-up for email newsletter…
Tony Lobl
PRIVACY POLICY
TERMS OF SERVICE
Perspectives on Healing Prayer
Blog at WordPress.com .
The Delicious Magazine Theme .
Follow
Follow “Perspectives on Healing Prayer”
Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.
Join 3,344 other followers
Build a website with WordPress.com
Send to Email Address
Your Name
Your Email Address
Cancel
Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
%d
bloggers like this: