Kelly Killoren Bensimon Interview - Real Housewives Of NYC - ArthurKade
Contact
Contra Studios
Home
Actors
Athletes
Authors
Comedians
Music
Politicians
Reality TV
Celebrities
Finding Out “I Can Make You Hot” With The Beautiful Kelly Killoren Bensimon (Bravo’s “The Real Housewives Of NYC”)
Comments Off
on Finding Out “I Can Make You Hot” With The Beautiful Kelly Killoren Bensimon (Bravo’s “The Real Housewives Of NYC”)
arthur
April 25, 2012
Reality TV
Kelly Killoren Bensimon gained mega-fame with her starring stint on Bravo’s hit show “The Real Housewives Of NYC”, appearing on the show from seasons 2-4 as one of the fan favorites on the cast, but before that she was an ultra-successful supermodel who has appeared in magazines such as
Elle ,
Cosmopolitan , and
Harper’s Bazaar , and was the face of
Clarins . Kelly built herself into a media machine and fashion/lifestyle brand becoming the editor at large for
Hamptons Magazine ,
Gotham Magazine , guest editor of NYC’s Avenue Magazine, as well as having authored three books:
In The Spirit of the Hamptons ,
American Style , and
The Bikini Book
and writing a column in
Page Six
Magazine called
The Socializer: Kelly Killoren Bensimon , and
amNEWYORK , a local New York newspaper, which has a circulation of 1,000,000 readers a day, announced Kelly’s new column which will appear every Thursday in Keith Kelly’s New York Post media column. Kelly has become a staple in the modeling world acting as a host of
IMG
Fashion Week, and of the IMG swim shows in Miami. She was a spokesperson in 2006 for Wool as part of their Test Marketing Productions (TMP), and has hosted and modeled in menswear events with GQ magazine. She was also an “ambassador” for Spring 2007 Mercedes-Benz Fashion Week in New York City. She has jewelery lines and has even appeared on the cover and in a six-page pictorial in the March 2010 edition of
Playboy Magazine , which was photographed by her ex husband Gilles Bensimon in August of 09 at Milk Studios in New York City, where she looked absolutely gorgeous and set the standard for what a woman in her 40’s can look like with proper diet, lifestyle, and workout regimen, and now with that being said, she has come out with a book called “I Can Make You Hot: The SuperModel Diet” which details recipes and techniques/tips to get you to your personal best inside and out and the book is garnering incredible reviews and tremendous buzz with Kelly appearing on Good Morning America and Wendy Williams right before sitting down with me last night!  Is there anything that this gorgeous “SuperModel-Mom” can’t do, and now she shares her lifestyle secrets with people everywhere which will no doubt make this book a bestseller!
Here “The King Of Kamelot” sits down with the absolutely gorgeous and awesome Kelly Killoren Bensimon in NYC after her appearances on GMA and Wendy Williams to talk about her new book “I Can Make You Hot” and how she can help people everywhere get to their peaks, as well as discussing if she is getting her own TV Show, how she got in shape for her Playboy shoot and why her Ex-Husband, famous photographer Gilles Bensimon, shot it for the magazine, and sooo much more!!  Kelly is amazingly beautiful in real life, and an absolute sweetheart, and I think she serves as a wonderful example to both men and women that if you live a healthy lifestyle and treat your body correctly, you can achieve everything you want both inside and out, and the fact that a portion of the
proceeds of the sale of this book go to Generosity Water is fantastic !!  Enjoy Kade Nation!!
And Here is Kelly sitting down with one of my favorite’s Lara Spencer On Good Morning America right before our interview:
video platform
video management
video solutions
video player
About the Author
Tweet
Share on Tumblr
Comments are closed.
Search
Subscribe & Follow
Connect on Facebook
Fans
Follow on Twitter
2439 Followers
Subscribe to RSS Feed
Breaking Out
Behind the Curtain
On the Red Carpet
Kade’s World
Recent Posts
For Future Postings, Please Visit Our TV Show Website: www.BehindTheVelvetRope.tv
May 18, 2015
Comments Off
on For Future Postings, Please Visit Our TV Show Website: www.BehindTheVelvetRope.tv
Celebrating The 42nd Annual Chaplin Awards With Robert Redford, John Turturro, J.C. Chandor, Laura Poitras And Carl Bernstein
May 04, 2015
Comments Off
on Celebrating The 42nd Annual Chaplin Awards With Robert Redford, John Turturro, J.C. Chandor, Laura Poitras And Carl Bernstein
Tweet, Tweet!
Tweets by arthurkade
Follow @arthurkade Powered by
Twitter Feed
Check them out Celebrities
Music
Comedians
Arthur Kade
Arthur Kade is the Internet's premiere Celebrity Interviewer.
From Pulitzer Prize to Oscar Winners, Gold Medal Champions to Grammy Winners, he shares their world through words.
Back to Top
Copyright © 2012 - Arthur Kade. All rights reserved.
Powered by
Nate Nichols