The Convention - Dunderpedia: The Office Wiki - Wikia
Wikia
Skip to Content
Skip to Wiki Navigation
Skip to Site Navigation
Comics
TV
Movies
Music
Books
Games
Lifestyle
WHAT’S HOT
Empire
Scream Queens
Star vs. the Forces of Evil
FALL PREMIERES
American Horror Story: Hotel
Fargo
Ash vs. Evil Dead
ANIME TO WATCH
Owari no Seraph: Nagoya Kessen-hen
Haikyuu!! Second Season
K: Return of Kings
MOBILE APPS
The Walking Dead
Avatar
Adventure Time
More TV
Search this wikia
Search all of Wikia
Sign In
Register
Username
Password
Forgot your password?
Stay logged in
Or
Connect
Start a wikia
Dunderpedia: The Office Wiki Navigation
On the Wiki
Wiki Activity
Random page
Videos
Photos
Chat
Forum
Seasons
Seasons 1-3
Season 1
Season 2
Season 3
Seasons 4-6
Season 4
Season 5
Season 6
Seasons 7-9
Season 7
Season 8
Season 9
Characters
Main Characters
Jim Halpert
Pam Halpert
Dwight Schrute
Michael Scott
Andy Bernard
Ryan Howard
Creed Bratton
Former Employees
Jim Halpert
Pam Halpert
Michael Scott
Andy Bernard
Ryan Howard
Creed Bratton
Todd Packer
Warehouse Staff
Darryl Philbin
Roy Anderson
Lonnie Collins
Hidetoshi Hasagawa
Matt
Glenn
Madge Madsen
Community
Recent blog posts
Wiki Forum
Chat
Contribute
Edit this Page
Add a Video
Add a Photo
Add a Page
Wiki Activity
Watchlist
Random page
Recent changes
The Convention
1,111 pages on
this wiki
Edit
Classic editor
History
Comments 0
The Convention
Season
3
Episode
2
Production Code
03006
Airdate
September 28, 2006
Written by
Lee Eisenberg
& Gene Stupnitsky
Directed by
Ken Whittingham
Episodes timeline
Gay Witch Hunt
The Convention
The Coup
"The Convention"
is the second episode of the third season of
The Office
and the 30th overall. It was written by
Lee Eisenberg
and
Gene Stupnitsky , and directed by
Ken Whittingham . It first aired on September 28, 2006. It was viewed by 7.8 million people.
Contents [ show ]
Synopsis Edit
Michael
asks
Pam
to research information so that he may adopt a Chinese baby, an idea stemming from Angelina Jolie's
Oprah
appearance. After Pam convinces him to hold off on the idea, Michael implies that he and Pam should conceive a baby together if neither of them has a child in ten years. Pam rejects the suggestion and his substitution of twenty years. She finally agrees to the scenario when Michael suggests thirty years.
Michael and
Dwight
receive per diem money from
Angela
for their train trip to Philadelphia, Pennsylvania for the Northeastern Mid-Market Office Supply Convention. Ryan reviews Michael's checklist of his luggage for the trip, including three boxes of condoms and his white "fun jeans" which are folded on a hanger and wrapped in plastic. Angela is angry with Dwight for leaving when they had planned to spend time together.
Kelly
is excited for a double date she has arranged with herself, Ryan, Pam, and Kelly's neighbor, Alan, a cartoonist for the local newspaper. Kelly urges Pam not to sleep with Alan on the first date. Pam admits in an interview that she is nervous and has not been on a first date in nine years. Overhearing date chat, Michael suggests Pam wear her wedding dress as a joke, and Dwight chimes in that her veil should complete the ensemble. Pam steadfastly says she will wear the same clothes she wore to work that day, and Michael tells her to unbutton her top button to "let those things breathe a little." Noting that
Jim
will be at the convention, Michael asks Pam if she wants him to relay a message, then teases her as she is only able to get out an, "Um..." before he cuts her off.
Creed , having earlier seen Angela "handing out some shekels" to Michael and Dwight, wonders how he can "get on that train". After being told the cash is for the Philadelphia trip, he and
Meredith
bash the city of brotherly love. An indignant Angela storms out of the room despite earlier mentioning a Martin family phrase — "The slow train from Philly" — used to indicate a potential prostitute in the vicinity. She leaves behind a plate of food that Creed immediately begins to eat. He informs Meredith that "Andrea is the office bitch" and proceeds to introduce himself, apparently not recognizing Meredith from the many years they have worked together.
In Philadelphia, Michael calls out "traitor" as a friendly greeting to Jim in the hotel lobby. Dwight asks him if he's made any sales and Jim says he has "sold about $40,000". Dwight believes the feat impossible, and then says he has done the same, though Michael shakes his head "no" in reference to the fact that Dwight has not done $40,000 in sales. (In a talking head, Jim admits that he thought he had matured beyond all of the "stupid and petty" antics he'd pulled — at which point Dwight opened his mouth; he then takes it upon himself to obtain a key to Dwight's hotel room.) Michael also converses briefly with Stamford regional manager
Josh , who informs Michael that should his branch swallow the Scranton branch, he will find a position within his new Stamford branch for Michael. A cause for concern washes across Michael's face when he hears this. Michael also queries
Jan
about "the 800-pound gorilla in the room,"
Carol . Saying that Jan must keep her hands off of him during the convention, Jan tells Michael to move away from her, and Michael thanks her for her cooperation. Angela secretly arrives at the convention incognito under the name "Jane Doe".
Michael and Dwight meet Jerome Bettis, who is signing autographs at the convention, and appear to mistake him for Mr. T. Bettis is reluctant to commit to Michael's party in Room 308. Michael informs Dwight that Bettis is nicknamed "The Bus" because of the pro-footballer's fear of flight. During lunch, Michael updates Jim on the Scranton happenings including Ryan taking over Jim's position and desk. Jim sends his regards and Michael promises to phone him that afternoon with the sentiment. Jim begins to ask how a former co-worker is doing, but briefly hesitates before the name, eventually naming
Toby . Michael responds by asking if Toby was why Jim left, or if he had considered bosses, leading to an inquiry as to what Jim thought of Josh compared to Michael. Jim states that it's not a competition.
Michael assigns Dwight to dig up any dirt on Josh. Michael takes a work-related phone call from Pam, and Jim is surprised when Michael wishes her luck on her date. Dwight informs Michael his contact at the sheriff's office isn't volunteering this day.
Michael promotes a Scranton v. Stamford paper airplane game at the Hammermill booth, but his plane crashes upon takeoff. Jim and Josh head off to other business and Michael brings the Hammermill salesperson to his room where he shares his emotions over Jim leaving his branch and discusses paper with the rep. As a result, Michael surprises the entire Dunder Mifflin contingent with the news he broke Staples' exclusive hold on Hammermill products and secured a deal with the company, impressing Jan. Michael even proceeds to tip the hotel waiter with his company per diem of $100 as just another way to try and impress Jan (which belittles her).
Jim has Dwight's room key and walks in on Angela (whom he mistakes for a prostitute) and he immediately leaves the room. He is shocked by the experience and tries to think of someone to call to share the news.
Back in the Scranton office,
Kevin
expresses to Toby his lust for Pam now that she has started dating again. Toby responds by pondering and eventually aborting asking her out.
Phyllis
suggests Pam order an expensive entree at dinner to show she's worth it.
Stanley
concludes an expensive dinner requires Pam to "put out." which Phyllis agrees would happen.
On the double date, Kelly looks to be the only one having a good time, chatting and shoving food into a fairly embarrassed Ryan's mouth. Pam is nervous and talks to her dull date who states that he gets his comic strip ideas from the world around him, or in a dream. On a napkin, he sketches a scene referencing the 2003 freedom fries controversy, and states that it works on many levels. He reveals people tell him not to be edgy in his cartoons, but it is the only way he knows. When Pam politely laughs, Alan appears to briefly look down her shirt, causing Pam to subtly button it higher.
Jim arrives on the third floor to pulsating vocoder-based electronic music and finds Michael sitting Indian-style playing with convention swag by strobe light. He says people have been filtering in and out of the party. Jim asks for a drink, and as Michael serves him a Cosmo, says he realizes that their boss-employee friendship was brief but not something Jim wanted to keep. Jim tells him he did not leave because he is a bad boss and calls Michael a great boss, and he left after he laid himself on the line to Pam and she rejected him, twice.
Now understanding of the situation, Michael says he will talk to Pam, which Jim insists he does not do. Michael also suggests that Jim talk to
Roy , because Roy knows exactly how he is feeling. Jim says he might. He and Michael make up and their renewed friendship is announced to party guests from the Hammermill staff.
Pam's date ends with Alan picking his teeth and telling her to bring her sketches next time. She informs the camera that she has not found a love connection.
A final tidbit finds Michael and Dwight preparing the black light for the Room 308 party. The light reveals stains covering the walls, comforter and headboard. Dwight speculates the stains are blood, urine, or semen, and a disgusted Michael says he hopes they are urine.
Deleted scenes Edit
The Season Three DVD contains a number of deleted scenes.
Michael reiterates his invitation to Ryan to join him at the convention.
Michael fondly recalls a convention he attended with Todd Packer.
Dwight signs for his per-diem and leaves a note for Angela in return.
Michael points out that he almost worked at a bottle factory they ride past on the train.
Michael and Dwight pick up their convention identification. Michael mistakes the woman at the registration desk for someone from a "sexy singles" chat line. Dwight makes corrections to his identification badge.
Michael introduces himself to one of Josh's regular clients.
Dwight clumsily interrogates Josh about his criminal record.
Michael describes a high school classmate whom Josh reminds him of.
While waiting for Michael, Dwight talks with Josh and is fascinated.
Dwight surreptitiously calls Angela to remind her how to hide in the closet of the hotel room.
Michael prepares cosmos in his hotel room. Dwight clumsily excuses himself.
Dwight returns to his hotel room and has trouble releasing Angela.
Jan invites Josh to her room for a drink. He declines.
Josh declines to comment on Michael and Jan's history, feeling it would be unprofessional to do so, and being somewhat grossed-out by it.
Michael and Dwight show off their "World's Best Boss" t-shirts.
After the episode aired, NBC made some deleted scenes available
online , including the following scenes not included on the DVD:
Creed sees Michael signing for his per-diem.
Extension of Ryan going over Michael's convention checklist.
Trivia Edit
In the break room, Meredith complains that Philadelphia "smells like cheese steaks." Kate Flannery, who plays Meredith, was born in Philadelphia and grew up in the area.
The establishing shot of the convention is of the Pennsylvania Convention Center.
The song playing during Michael's "party" in his hotel room is "Girls Gone Wild" by Captain Ahab.
Goofs Edit
When Michael gives Jim a welcoming hug, Dwight is wearing his conference name tag. After Michael's talking head interview, Dwight is shown putting on his name tag.
In the episode, Kevin tells Toby that Pam is "back on the market again". However, since she has been with Roy for nine years, Pam has not been single the whole time she has worked at Dunder Mifflin.
Amusing details Edit
Dwight altered his conference name tag. He inserted his middle name, crossed out "to the" from "Assistant to the Regional Manager", and added his cell phone number, home phone number, pager number, and his hotel room number.
When Michael tells Jan about "the 800-pound gorilla in the room," Dwight is carefully studying the fire escape map.
After Josh and Jim share the inside joke, Josh checks his watch, and a wedding band is visible on his finger. Nevertheless, Jan invites Josh to her room for a drink in a deleted scene.
In the first half of the episode, when Michael and Dwight meet up with Josh and Jim, both of them are wearing identical shirts. Michael and Dwight is wearing grey while Josh and Jim are wearing white
In the second half of the episode, Michael wears the Microsoft Office "swag" shirt he picked up while talking about "swag" earlier in the episode.
Dwight's room number is 556; Michael's is 308. Even though they are colleagues, Michael chose a room far away from Dwight's. Interesting to note is that 5.56mm and .308 are both common bullet calibres.
When Michael announces that he broke Hammermill's exclusivity, Dwight raises his hand and waits, in vain, for a high-five.
While on the phone with Pam, Michael says that he will give Toby "general specifics" later, an amusing oxymoron.
When Jan says, " I can't be on top of you 24/7,"
Michael smiles at the camera, as if to say, " That's what she said."
When Kelly comes over to Pam to talk to her about their double date, Ryan quickly picks up the phone.
Behind the scenes Edit
According to Angela Kinsey, she improvised, "Why are there flies in here?", because there really was a fly in the room in one take. The writers liked it so much they added it to the script.
Cultural references Edit
Oprah Winfrey
(commonly known by just her first name) is a popular daytime talk show host.
Angelina Jolie
is an actress who has adopted three children from underdeveloped countries.
You are correct, sir!
is a catch phrase of
Ed McMahon , sidekick to
Johnny Carson
on
The Tonight Show .
The
shekel
is the official currency of Israel. It can be used in American English as a slang for money.
A
cheesesteak sandwich
consists of thin slices of steak served with cheese on a long roll. It was invented in Philadelphia and is considered a hallmark food of the city.
To
hit that
is slang for "to have sex with that person".
An
800-pound gorilla
is an entity that dominates by sheer size. The
elephant in the room
is the topic everybody knows but nobody wants to mention. Michael combines these two idioms.
Swag
is slang for items given away at conventions and trade shows. Michael's claim that it stands for
stuff we all get
is a
folk etymology . The term more likely derives from the British slang term
swag
meaning
stolen goods .
American football player
Jerome Bettis
is nicknamed
The Bus
for his ability to continue running even with opposing players on his back. Michael may have confused Bettis with fictional character
B. A. Baracus
(played by
Mr. T ) and football coach and sports announcer
John Madden , both of whom have a fear of flying.
Skeletons in one's closet
are embarrassing secrets from one's past. Michael misstates the idiom as
skeletons in his attic .
Stat
is medical jargon meaning
immediately .
24/7
is business slang for
24 hours a day, seven days a week ; in other words,
constantly .
For a woman to
put out
on a date means to agree to have sex.
Jane Doe
is a name traditionally used for a woman who cannot or does not wish to be identified.
Freedom fries
is a replacement term for " French fries " (French-fried potatoes) developed in retaliation against the French for their opposition to the 2003 war in Iraq. The term was already outdated when the episode aired.
Love Connection
was a dating game show.
Michael offers to make Jim a
Cosmo , short for
Cosmopolitan , a stereotypical "girly" drink thanks to its popularity on the television program
Sex and the City .
Quotes
Edit
see
The Convention Quotes
Cast Edit
Main Cast Edit
Steve Carell
as
Michael Scott
Rainn Wilson
as
Dwight Schrute
John Krasinski
as
Jim Halpert
Jenna Fischer
as
Pam Beesly
B.J. Novak
as
Ryan Howard
Supporting Cast Edit
Melora Hardin
as
Jan Levenson
Leslie David Baker
as
Stanley Hudson
Brian Baumgartner
as
Kevin Malone
Kate Flannery
as
Meredith Palmer
Mindy Kaling
as
Kelly Kapoor
Angela Kinsey
as
Angela Martin
Paul Lieberstein
as
Toby Flenderson
Phyllis Smith
as
Phyllis Lapin
Recurring Cast Edit
Charles Esten
as
Josh Porter
Creed Bratton (actor)
as
Creed Bratton
Guest Cast Edit
Robert Bagnell
as
Alan
Matt Price
as
Evan
Jerome Bettis
as Himself
Chelsea Crisp as Convention worker
Steve Little as Conventioneer
Roscoe Myrick
Douglas Sarine
The Accountants
The Office
- Season 3
Season 4
#01 Gay Witch Hunt
#07 Branch Closing
#13 The Return
#19 Safety Training
#02 The Convention
#08 The Merger
#14 Ben Franklin
#20 Product Recall
#03 The Coup
#09 The Convict
#15 Phyllis' Wedding
#21 Women's Appreciation
#04 Grief Counseling
#10 A Benihana Christmas
#16 Business School
#22 Beach Games
#05 Initiation
#11 Back From Vacation
#17 Cocktails
#23 The Job
#06 Diwali
#12 Traveling Salesmen
#18 The Negotiation
Retrieved from " http://theoffice.wikia.com/wiki/The_Convention?oldid=48873 "
Categories :
Episodes
Season 3
Season 3 Episodes
Add category
Cancel
Save
Around Wikia's network
Random Wiki
TV
About
Help
Community Central
Careers
Advertise
API
Contact Wikia
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Global Sitemap
Content is available under
CC-BY-SA .
Entertainment
Video Games
Lifestyle