Wilson's Heart - House Wiki - Wikia
Wikia
Skip to Content
Skip to Wiki Navigation
Skip to Site Navigation
Comics
TV
Movies
Music
Books
Games
Lifestyle
WHAT’S HOT
Empire
Scream Queens
Star vs. the Forces of Evil
FALL PREMIERES
American Horror Story: Hotel
Fargo
Ash vs. Evil Dead
ANIME TO WATCH
Owari no Seraph: Nagoya Kessen-hen
Haikyuu!! Second Season
K: Return of Kings
MOBILE APPS
The Walking Dead
Avatar
Adventure Time
More TV
Search this wikia
Search all of Wikia
Sign In
Register
Username
Password
Forgot your password?
Stay logged in
Or
Connect
Start a wikia
House Wiki Navigation
On the Wiki
Wiki Activity
Random page
Videos
Photos
Top Content
most_visited
Gregory House
Robert Chase
Allison Cameron
Remy Hadley
House, M.D.
James Wilson
Lisa Cuddy
highest_ratings
Lin-Manuel Miranda
Omar Epps
Pilot
Birthmarks
Gregory House and Sherlock Holmes connections
Meningitis
Games
newly_changed
Occam's Razor
Optometry
Ependyma
Brachial plexus
NALP3
Podiatry
Platinum
Community
portal
forum
Episodes
List of House episodes
Season 8
Season 7
Season 6
Season 5
Season 4
Season 3
Recent blog posts
Contribute
Edit this Page
Add a Video
Add a Photo
Add a Page
Wiki Activity
Watchlist
Random page
Recent changes
Wilson's Heart
6,567 pages on
this wiki
Edit
Classic editor
History
Talk 0
Wilson's Heart
Director(s)
Katie Jacobs
Writer(s)
Peter Blake ,
David Foster ,
Garrett Lerner ,
Russel Friend
Airdate
May 19, 2008
Episode Number
4.16
TV.com Rating
8.5 /10
Guest Star(s)
Kal Penn ,
Peter Jacobson ,
Olivia Wilde ,
Anne Dudek ,
Fred Durst
Final Diagnosis
Accidental
Amantadine
overdose due to
kidney
injury resulting in multiple
organ
failure
Zebra Factor
9 /10
Season Four
Episodes:
Alone
The Right Stuff
97 Seconds
Guardian Angels
Mirror Mirror
Whatever It Takes
Ugly
You Don't Want to Know
Games
It's a Wonderful Lie
Frozen
Don't Ever Change
No More Mr. Nice Guy
Living The Dream
House's Head
Wilson's Heart
Episodes
•
1
•
2
•
3
•
4
•
5
•
6
•
7
•
8
For other uses of Wilson, see
Wilson .
" An incredibly rare neurological symptom is boring? Am I in someone else's subconscious? "
―Wilson’s Heart
Wilson's Heart
is the 4th season finale episode of
House
that first aired on May 19, 2008. It immediately follows the events in the previous episode
House‘s Head . Amber is found at Princeton General in rapidly deteriorating condition despite successful surgery to treat her physical injuries. House and Wilson manage to have her transferred by ambulance to Princeton-Plainsboro, but a heart attack along the way results in a decision to put her in protective hypothermia. The key to Amber's condition seems to lie in House's damaged memory as he is sure he saw something before the bus crash that is relevant to her condition. The diagnosis is complicated by House suddenly becoming cautious and Wilson’s lack of objectivity. However, as House begins to recover his memory, he starts to remember something that could end his friendship with Wilson and change both of their lives forever. When faced with the diagnosis, Wilson wonders if he can face Amber for the last time.
Contents [ show ]
Recap Edit
House
and
Wilson
find
Amber
at nearby
Princeton General
hospital. Although Amber came through
surgery
well, just prior to their arrival, her heart started
racing
at 130 beats per minute. House lies about Wilson being Amber's husband so they can take her by ambulance back to
PPTH . However, on the way there, she starts fibrillating. Instead of defibrillating, Wilson comes up with the idea of lowering her
body temperature
to keep her racing
heart
from killing her, giving House more time to come up with a
diagnosis . House agrees.
Amber is put into protective
hypothermia
by
Chase , and then her heart and
lungs
are put on
bypass , stabilizing her. The team then starts a differential. They are handicapped by the fact that she is on bypass and they can't test her heart.
Kutner
suggests that House try to restore his memory, but even House realizes he's in too poor a shape to take drugs to do it.
Taub
asks House if there is anything else he should know, like if House was sleeping with Amber. House denies it, but admits he can’t remember what happened. He goes to run a
tox screen .
Thirteen
and Kutner go to Amber's apartment to do an
environmental scan . Kutner finds sex videos of Wilson and Amber. Thirteen is reluctant to proceed, thinking their behavior is changing because they know her.
House is in his office trying to think, but he falls asleep and starts dreaming. He starts talking to Amber in his dream. He tries to remember what they were doing together the previous night. Amber suggests they were meeting to have an affair, but House suddenly wakes up and realizes that electricity will stimulate his brain. He goes to
Cuddy , but she's dismissive, and Wilson agrees with her. Wilson conforts Amber by talking to her. House gets a page from his team, but all the tests are negative. However, Kutner found
SSRIs
and
amphetamines
being prescribed as
diet pills , which could explain the racing heart. Foreman wants to restart her heart to test it, but House suggests surgery to look at the
pulmonary vein
directly.
As Amber's condition deteriorates, Thirteen begins to act strangely, which prompts House to confront her about not participating in the differentials. House tells her to get over whatever her problem is so she can do her job.
Just as they are about to start surgery, they find Amber is exhibiting
jaundice . The
liver
failure shows that diet pills aren't responsible, so they return her to
intensive care .
House saw sherry in his dream with Amber, and Kutner remembers that there is a
Sharrie's Bar
near the site of the bus crash. Wilson and House go to the bar, and the
bartender
gives House back his keys. House starts asking about Amber, and the bartender tells him that she sneezed and that they were drinking together. House thinks the sneezing points to an infection.
Kutner tells Thirteen that he went through what Wilson is facing. His parents were killed in a store robbery when he was very young.
House decides that Amber may have had
hepatitis
and orders
interferon .
Foreman
goes to tell Wilson and tells House to get some sleep. However, House has another dream, and Amber starts speaking to him again, telling him that hepatitis can't be the right diagnosis. She then shows House her back. House wakes up again and tells his team to turn Amber over. They notice a
rash
on her back that indicates that she might have the
flu .
Wilson is wondering exactly how House saw the rash. Once again, House has to confront Thirteen about refusing to do her work. They think it might be
Rocky Mountain Spotted Fever , but after they treat her with antibiotics, they have to warm her back up to test their theory. Wilson objects. House orders
blood cultures , but Foreman objects because treatment would be faster. House overrules him.
House goes to see Thirteen again to see why she is screwing up. He thinks it's because of her refusal to deal with the possibility of having
Huntington's disease . He tells her to get over it, but she confronts him about his caution on Amber‘s case.
Foreman is concerned about Amber, and goes to Cuddy. Cuddy goes in and starts warming Amber up. Wilson objects vehemently as he sees a drop in
brain
function on the
EEG . He accuses Cuddy and Foreman of letting whatever is wrong with her spread to her brain.
House thinks it might be an
autoimmune
disease. He wants to give her
prednisone
and warm her back up. Wilson objects again, but Cuddy tells Wilson he's the family, not the
attending . House apologizes to Wilson, but agrees with Cuddy. Wilson soon comes back to apologize, but asks House to go through deep electrical brain stimulation to attempt to restore his memory. House realizes he will be risking his own life, but agrees.
Chase starts the procedure on House. House remembers the bartender taking his keys. He asks for a phone, and realizes he's calling Wilson. However, he reached Amber instead. House asked her to get Wilson, but she came to the bar to get him instead. They argue about leaving, and Amber agrees to stay for one drink. However, House can't remember there being anything wrong with her. He remembers that he saw Amber sneeze, but there is nothing in her
mucous
to indicate a problem. House realizes he tried to leave the bar without paying, and Amber went back to pay once he insisted on taking the bus home. He also forgot his
cane , and Amber ran onto the bus to return it. Amber sneezes again, and says she has the flu. However, House realizes that can't be the whole answer. She reaches for pills -
Amantadine . House tells her not to take them, but just after she does, the bus crashes. He realizes that her injured
kidneys
and the day that passed since she took them, allowed the Amandatine to bind to the proteins in her body and poison her
organs . It's too late for
dialysis , as she's become
terminal . House apologizes to Wilson, and a tear runs down his face. House then suffers a
seizure .
House goes into a
coma
because the seizure worsened his skull fracture. Foreman explains to the others that House was right about the Amantadine. There was nothing they could have done once Amber went into
Ventricular fibrillation
in the ambulance. She can't qualify for a transplant because all her other organs are damaged.
Wilson wants to call time of death, but Cuddy tells him that Amber would most likely prefer if she was awakened for a few hours so they could say goodbye to each other. Wilson agrees, and waits for Amber to wake up. Amber finally regains
consciousness
and, as Wilson explains the situation, she realizes that the Amantadine will soon result in her death. They tell each other that they love each other.
Thirteen says that the team should say goodbye. Taub says, "She didn't even like us," to which Kutner replies, "We liked her." Taub then says, "Did we?", and Foreman says, "We do now." Taub asks what they're supposed to say to her, and Kutner says that they don't have to say anything. A fade between the team then happens. Kutner walks up, puts his hand on Wilson's shoulder, and gives a faint smile to Amber and Wilson; Taub blows a kiss to Amber; Foreman stands next to her, with his hand on the bed, and looks at Wilson; Thirteen walks up and gives Amber a hug.
Amber starts to feel fatigued, and realizes her time is short. Wilson wonders why she isn't angry. She says that's not the last feeling she wants to experience. Wilson kisses her, and shuts down her bypass. She then dies in Wilson's arms.
House is still unresponsive. He hallucinates that he is in a brightly lit bus with Amber. He realizes she's dead. She tells him, "Everybody dies." He wonders if he is dead, but she tells him that he isn't yet. He believes that he is the one who should have died. House then realizes Wilson is going to hate him. Amber tells him, "You kind of deserve it." House then says, "He's my best friend," and Amber tells him that she knows. She then asks what to do now, and House says, "I could stay here with you." Instead, Amber tells him to get off the bus. House says, "I can't," and goes on to say, poignantly and almost tearfully, "It doesn't hurt here. I... don't want to be in pain. I don't want to be miserable. I don't want him to hate me." Amber then tells him that, "Well,
you can't always get what you want."
She raises her eyebrows, and House walks off the bus. Amber smiles and, as she looks outside of the bus, it fades to white. House then finds himself awake in his hospital bed with Cuddy at his side. She tells him to rest after she confirms he can hear her.
We see the result of Thirteen's test for Huntington's. It is positive. Taub goes back home where his wife is sleeping, and he embraces her. Kutner watches television while eating cereal alone. Foreman goes to a bar where he is soon joined by Chase and
Cameron .
In the hospital, a red-eyed Wilson visits House while he sleeps, with Cuddy sleeping in a chair nearby. House wakes, and the two stare at each other for several moments. Eventually, Wilson leaves the room. He goes home, to his bedroom and finds a note under the pillow from Amber that she has gone to pick up House, and soon breaks down in tears once again, clutching the note.
The season ends with House still in his hospital bed, and Cuddy, fast asleep in a chair beside him, still holding his hand in the background.
Major Events Edit
The team struggle to find out what's affecting Amber while a distraught Wilson tries to cope with what has happened.
Kutner reveals his biological parents were murdered when he was six.
House confronts Thirteen over her unwillingness to treat Amber.
In a final attempt to reclaim his lost memories, House undergoes a Deep Brain Stimulation for Wilson's sake. He soon discovers that Amber was taking flu-pills and figures out that she has amantadine poisoning. He tells a heartbroken Wilson that they can't do anything to save her and offers his friend an apology.
House soon suffers a seizure as a result of the deep brain surgery and ends up in a coma.
Kutner, Taub, Thirteen and Foreman all say their goodbyes to Amber.
Wilson switches off the life-support which results in Amber dying.
House awakens from his coma.
Thirteen learns that her Huntington's test is positive.
Zebra Factor 9/10 Edit
Accidental amantadine poisoning of this type is rare, but not unheard of. It is difficult to overdose on the drug because the kidneys filter it quickly. However, if the kidneys aren’t functioning, it will often result in toxic damage.
All you need is a double bypass, pumping the poisonous blood to a healthy person, and use their heathy kidney as a filter. or if the toxicity is already too high, use multiple persons'. its not a very risky treatmeant, if enough volunteers are found.
Trivia & Cultural References Edit
Sherry
is a fortified wine made from white grapes. It is largely grown near the town of Jerez, Spain, and “Sherry” is an anglicization of “Jerez”.
When Thirteen is in the bathroom crying a "Change '08!" pamphlet an be seen posted on the wall; refering to the candidate for president Barack Obama.
In a scene of the episode, a cover of the song
Teardrop
is played, performed by Jose Gonzalez.
A
Cosmopolitan
is a cocktail consisting of vodka, triple sec, cranberry juice and lime juice.
Links Edit
Episode article at Wikipedia
Episode summary at TV.com
Episode listing at IMDB
Transcribed episode script
A review of the medicine at Polite Dissent ﻿
Previous episode: House's Head
Wilson's Heart
Next episode: Dying Changes Everything
Retrieved from " http://house.wikia.com/wiki/Wilson%27s_Heart?oldid=43264 "
Categories :
Episodes
Season 4
Huddy
Zebra Factor 9
Episodes ending in the patient's death
Add category
Cancel
Save
Around Wikia's network
Random Wiki
TV
About
Help
Community Central
Careers
Advertise
API
Contact Wikia
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Global Sitemap
Content is available under
CC-BY-SA .
Entertainment
Video Games
Lifestyle