drag race
skip to main
|
skip to sidebar
drag race
Kamis, 29 April 2010
Drafting
ELEPHANT Big Strong Mammals Trunk Tusk Short Tail Large Ears Black skin Wild In group Thick Legs Little Eyes Looks very clumsy heavy can move very quickly Very intelligent animal smart animal Group : Agustina Yuliati
(03) Choirunisak
(11) Fitri Yesi
(20) Juanita W.R
(23) Rhino Surya N
(28)
Diposkan oleh
drifting
di
20.15
Tidak ada komentar:
Kamis, 22 April 2010
AN ELEPHANT (DRAFTING)
An elephant is the largest and strongest of all animals. It is a strange looking animal which it has thick legs, huge sides and backs, large hanging ears, a smaal tail, little eyes, long white tusks and above all, elephant has a long nose, the trunk. An elephant is commonly seen in a zoo, it has hard found in it natural habitat. The trunk is the elephant's peculiar festure. This trunk has various usages. The elephant draws up water by its trunk and can squirt the water all over its body like a shower bath. The elephant's trunk also lift leaves and put them into its mouth. In fact, the trunk serves the elephant as long arm and hand. An elephant looks very clumsy and heavy and yet an elephant can move very quickly. The elelphant is very intelligent animal. Its intelligence combined with its great strength makes an elephant a very useful servant to man. Elephant can be trained to serve in various ways such as carry heavy loads, hunt for tigers and even fight. An elephant is really a smart animal. Name: 1. Agustina yuliati (03) 2. Choirunisak (11) 3. Fitri yesi (20) 4. Juanita W.R (23) 5. Rhino S.N (28)
Diposkan oleh
drifting
di
04.44
Rabu, 21 April 2010
nissan 350z veilside
Tokyo Drift
Test: Drift King Twin-Turbo 350ZEvery movie has a protagonist (the hero) and an antagonist (the bad guy). While the protagonist ends up with the girl, it always seems the antagonist has more fun. In
The Fast & The Furious: Tokyo Drift
the bad guy is "The Drift King," and his ride is this twin-turbo Nissan 350Z. That's fun. Eleven 350Zs actually portrayed the Drift King's mount — including those built to wreck. And this is one of the two primary cars equipped with an APS twin-turbo system (a $7,500 kit through most shops) breathing into the 3.5-liter DOHC 24-valve V6 engine. With APS's turbo-back exhaust system and some Magnaflow mufflers to quiet it down, there should be at least 450 horsepower available at the crank in this car. There's probably more. Beaten in every way a car could be, the
Tokyo Drift
350Z wore scars along its Veilside Version 3 wide-body kit, but started instantly to settle into a humming idle like a taxiing F-18. The Nissan 350Z is stiff when it's unmodified, and the 19-inch Veilside rims covered with Toyo Proxes 285/30R19 T1Rs and RSR lowering springs make it stiffer. But it's how the pavement crackles and snaps under those as they cross it that gives the twin-turbo 350Z its menace. The Sparco EVO L driver seat won't let anyone with a wide hiney settle in and clamps in on anyone else like a vise grip. The six-speed transmission feeds back to a Nismo limited-slip differential, which makes launching the car at least straightforward like pulling the hammer of a Glock pistol back into the fully cocked position. The Drift King's 350Z doesn't launch easily; the revs have to stay up for the turbos and it will chatter the rear tires (after all, it was built to slide, not drag race). Still, it screamed to 60 mph in 5.7 seconds and blistered the quarter-mile in 13.2 seconds at 114.8 mph. The last stock
2005 350Z
this site tested took 5.9 seconds to reach 60 and 14.6 seconds at 99.3 mph to complete the quarter-mile. With a 0-60 time only two-tenths quicker than stock, and a quarter-mile time nearly 1.4 seconds better, this is a car with more power than it can use off launch. With a little launch control, the twin-turbo Nissan 350Z would be running well in the 12s in the quarter-mile. In
The Fast and the Furious: Tokyo Drift , the bad guy may not get the girl, but at least he gets to wherever he's going quickly.
Diposkan oleh
drifting
di
22.36
Tidak ada komentar:
mazda rx 7
The
Mazda RX-7
is a
sports car
produced by the Japanese automaker
Mazda
from 1978 to 2002. The original RX-7 featured a 1146 cc twin-rotor
Wankel rotary engine
and a sporty
front-midship ,
rear-wheel drive
layout. The RX-7 was a direct replacement for the
RX-3
(both were sold in Japan as the Savanna) and subsequently replaced all other Mazda rotary cars with the exception of the
Cosmo .
The original RX-7 was a
sports coupé . The compact and light-weight
Wankel engine
or rotary engine is situated slightly behind the front
axle , a configuration marketed by Mazda as "front mid-engine". It was offered in
America
as a two-seat coupé, with optional "occasional" rear-seats in
Japan ,
Australia , and other parts of the world. The "occasional" rear-seats were initially marketed as a dealer installed option for the North American markets.
Diposkan oleh
drifting
di
22.17
Tidak ada komentar:
Beranda
Langganan:
Entri (Atom)
Mengenai Saya
drifting
Lihat profil lengkapku