Dezembro 2008 - paulina-porizkova
home
Domingo, 21 de Dezembro de 2008
Things about Paulina..
Name: Paulina Porizkova
Age : ( i know it , but i don't want to say)
nationality:  Prostejov, Czechoslovakia
as born in: April 9, 1965
what she like in her work :
she likes actually, the money
but it's very fun working a Photografy model
her Husband's name is: Rick Ocasek
she have two suns called : Oliver Orion Ocasek,
Jonathan Raven Ocasek
she lives in : ( i don't know exactly)
publicado por sergio às 16:58 link do post
|
comentar
|
favorito
|
is very TIRING being a MOLEL ?
It can be physically very exhausting to be a model. Imagine, in the middle of winter and fierce winds to be wearing nothing but a short silk sleeveless tunic while walking down the street WITHOUT BREATHING! because you're doing a commercial and when you breathe, vapor comes out of your nose. So, walk, freeze, and no breathing. Oh, and look great!
Or, how about a bikini in 60 degree water and 37 degree air in a freezing dawn. Or, how about woolen stockings, suit, mohair sweater and furcoat in the middle of August in Manahattan, temperature hovering about 110, and 80 percent humidity. Every time you sweat, the makeup artist has to run in and re-powder. And you're supposed to be carrying a large suitcase, in a rush, trying to hail a taxi. That's just a few of the things I've done repeatedly in my twenty years of modeling. How about running through a field of sugarcane wearing a bikini? (Sugarcane stalks are like razorblades if you run through them)
publicado por sergio às 16:55 link do post
|
comentar
|
favorito
|
Paulina's photos
(this is on Stardoll.com)
well.. it's all for now ! i hope that you liked the photos ! i will post a LOT of them here !
publicado por sergio às 16:47 link do post
|
comentar
|
favorito
|
Paulina Porizkova
Paulina Porizkova
Biography
Born in
Prostějov , Czechoslovakia, she was still a toddler when her father and mother left
Czechoslovakia , fleeing the Warsaw Pact invasion of Czechoslovakia
in 1968, and moved to Lundin southern Sweden. They left Paulina under the care of her grandmother, believing that their daughter could be brought out later.
However, the Czechoslovak authorities would not allow this, and the ensuing battle for Paulina was widely publicized in the Swedish press, making her a
cause célèbre . After a failed rescue attempt, in which her mother was detained by the national police, international political pressure led by
Olof Palme caused the communist government to allow the Pořizková family to be reunited after seven years. The reunion was soon ended when the husband left, and the couple filed for divorce. Father and daughter have been estranged since.
This left Paulina's mother to fund her own medical education and Paulina and her brother Jachym (who was born in Czechoslovakia during her mother's house arrest) to look after themselves, including having to steal bread to have something to eat. Paulina hated her time in Sweden, as she was harassed by her peers for her poverty-stricken political refugee status.
Acting
Porizkova's film debut was in the 1983 modelling pseudo- documentary Portfolio . Still only seventeen, she managed to look more mature and intelligent than the other more-established models, and she became the "covergirl" for the film.
Porizkova appeared in the 1987 film
Anna
(which starred
Sally Kirkland ), receiving good reviews from her patrons at
Vogue
magazine. It was in 1989 that she had her largest, and best-known role to date, co-starring with
Tom Selleck
(whom it was rumored did not get along with her at all) in the film
Her Alibi . However, she was nominated for a
Golden Raspberry
for worst actress for her appearance in that film.
She was rumored in a 1989 issue of the Italian magazine "Moda" to be starring along with
Robert De Niro
in a planned film by
Sergio Leone
about the
siege of Leningrad
during World War II, halted by the director's death. Later, she appeared in the bizarre
cult film ,
Arizona Dream , with
Johnny Depp
and
Jerry Lewis , in a minor role as Lewis's young Polish fiancee. She also appeared in the film
Thursday .
Paulina wrote and directed the 2001 film,
Roommates . In 2004, she starred in the romantic comedy,
Knots , but turned down an opportunity to be a
Bond Girl
in the 1995 film
GoldenEye
because of better earnings available to her in modelling then, as well as not wishing to take time away from her family.
She has also appeared on various television shows, including an April 18, 2007 appearance on
The Colbert Report
after remarks that she found Colbert "extremely attractive."
Writing
She has finished her debut novel,
A Model Summer
( ISBN 1401303269 ) ( ISBN 978-1401303266 ). It is about a 15-year-old Swedish girl chosen by a modeling agent to spend a summer working in Paris.
In September 1992, her children's book
The Adventures of Ralphie the Roach
( ISBN 0385424027 ) ( ISBN 978-0385424028 ) was published, along with co-authors Joanne Russell
and illustrator stepson Adam Ocasek.
Modeling
A photographer friend took pictures of Porizkova and sent them to the
Elite modeling agency
in 1980. At 5 feet 10 1/2 inches (180 cm), she was the perfect height for a fashion model. Elite head
John Casablancas
noticed Porizkova's attractiveness and potential, and offered her a ticket to Paris. It was an extremely tempting offer for a teenager who was eager to get out of Sweden and to support herself.
She quickly rose to become a top model in Paris during the early 1980s, and her fame spread to the United States when she posed in
swimwear
for
Sports Illustrated
magazine. She appeared on the cover of the
Sports Illustrated
Swimsuit Issue
in 1984 and again in 1985. (Her first appearance as a model in the magazine was in 1983.) A third consecutive run as the S.I. covergirl supposedly was dashed when she appeared on the cover of
Life
magazine in a swimsuit.
Porizkova appeared on the cover of
Playboy
magazine in August 1987 to preview her new (non-nude) swimsuit calendar. A few years earlier she had appeared in a nude spread in
GQ
magazine, which had left her feeling dissatisfied. Both of her calendars in 1988 and 1989 by photographer
Marco Glaviano
sold hundreds of thousands of copies, setting a standard that paved the way for other models like
Cindy Crawford
and
Frederique
for their own pictorial calendars.
Porizkova was chosen twice by
People
magazine as one of the Fifty Most Beautiful People in the world, in 1990 and 1992.
Harper's Bazaar
magazine named her one of its ten most beautiful women in 1992.
American Photo
magazine in its first issue declared her to be the model of the 1980s. She appeared on the covers of numerous magazines around the world during the 1980s and 1990s, including appearances on
Vogue ,
Elle ,
Harper's Bazaar ,
Self ,
Cosmopolitan , and
Glamour . She also featured in advertising for
Diet Sprite . Porizkova was the cover model for the 20th Anniversary issue of
Cosmopolitan
magazine in November 1985.
In 1988, Porizkova won what was then the highest-paying modeling contract: a six million
dollar
contract with
Estée Lauder
cosmetics, replacing the model
Willow Bay . Estée Lauder's strategy in the late 1980s was to move away from an older generation of women and target younger urbanite professional women. The black-and-white television and print advertising campaign won praise from critics. The Estée Lauder makeover transformed Porizkova's public image from a swimsuit model to that of European sophisticate and she remained the company's face until 1995.
Porizkova has appeared in the books
Models
and
Sirens , by Marco Glaviano, and in
Fashion Photography
by
Patrick Demarchelier . The latter includes some of the noted
LIFE
magazine swimsuit pictures from several years ago. She was also in
Women
by
Herb Ritts .
During her early modeling career, Porizkova had noticeable gaps between her front teeth. For this reason, she usually appeared with a closed mouth rather than a smile during the period. One writer noted that her teeth were an eccentricity in an otherwise perfect face. The rarity of her smile became a trademark for her during that period of her career. Her gapped teeth were corrected (and filmed) during her movie debut
Anna . Her other trademark was her "dreamy look", which she claims came from her squinting at the camera because of her extreme nearsightedness.
After having her first baby in 1993, Porizkova devoted less time to modeling, and she moved into acting in
independent films . She soon got a new contract as the lead model for
Escada . In early 2001, she was the hostess for a television show on the
E!
network's Style Channel. In 2005, she made her first appearance in the noted
Victoria's Secret
catalogue.
Although she had an extraordinary career as a model, Porizkova was known to make disparaging remarks about the fashion and beauty industry, which was displeasing to some in the field. She is now part of the panel of judges on
America's Next Top Model , starting on
Cycle 10
replacing the fashion icon,
Twiggy . [2]
She continues to conduct regular weekly evaluations of Top Model participants on the show.
Porizkova was a participant on the Spring 2007 series
Dancing with the Stars reality show .
[3] , but she was voted off on the first results show which aired March 27, 2007.
Personal life
On August 23, 1989, Paulina married
Ric Ocasek , lead singer for the rock band The Cars. They had first met in 1984 during the filming of The Cars'
music video , "Drive", which was directed by
Timothy Hutton . Paulina was only 19 and Ocasek was already married at that time. The couple have two children,
Jonathan Raven Ocasek , born on November 4, 1993, and
Oliver Orion Ocasek , born in May 23, 1998.
Later, Paulina was the subject of the song " Friends of P " by
The Rentals
on their 1995 album
Return of the Rentals , written by lead singer
Matt Sharp , also a former member of the Ocasek-produced
Weezer
and the song " Paulina " on
No Doubt 's first album.
"It's about Paulina Porizkova, who is Rick Ocasek's wife, who used to come down to Electric Ladyland studios when we were recording the Blue album. And she would read our palms, and she was pregnant and she would just hang out. And we were like, "Wow, a pregnant supermodel is reading our palms." And then she would complain about how only bands like Warrant and all these '80s heavy metal bands are the only people who would write songs about her. And so she was really bummed out that nobody cool was writing songs about her now, so I wrote that song for her while we were at Electric Lady as an attempt to get her out of the '80s hair metal rut she was stuck in."
Paulina became a naturalized U.S. citizen under the name
Paulina Porizkova-Ocasek .
sinto-me:
Maravilhosamente BEM
música:
paulina
publicado por sergio às 16:21 link do post
|
comentar
|
favorito
|
.mais sobre mim
.
ver perfil
.
seguir perfil
.pesquisar
.Dezembro 2008
Dom
Seg
Ter
Qua
Qui
Sex
Sab
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
.posts recentes
.
Things about Paulina.. .
is very TIRING being a MO... .
Paulina's photos .
Paulina Porizkova
.arquivos
.
Dezembro 2008
.subscrever feeds
Posts Comentários