Dianna Agron - Jenna's Blog
Jenna's Blog
Sign In
Home
Blog
this is me.
Looking to get to know me?
Dianna Agron
By
Jenna Klawiter
on
September 14, 2010 10:28 PM
|
0 Comments
|
0 TrackBacks
Dianna Agron was born in  Savannah, Georgia , but she was raised in    San Francisco . She has been in dance all her life, yet she has only been active in Hollywood since 2006. She is an all American singer and actress, she was born on   April 30, 1986. Agron has also been is a various number of television shows such as,  Shark ,  Close to Home ,  CSI: NY ,  Numb3rs  and  Veronica Mars . Dianna Agron also hosted a mini music festival for  826LA  in Los Angeles called Chickens in Love. She was chosen to be in  Wal-Mart 's  Ocean Pacific  Spring 2010 marketing campaign, along with many other young actresses. This national campaign featured in  Elle ,  Teen Vogue ,  Seventeen  and  Cosmopolitan , and online at the official  Ocean Pacific  website. Although, she is most known for her role as  Quinn Fabray , a high school cheerleader, on the  FOX  series  Glee .  Quinn Fabray is the head cheerleader of McKinley high school and she started off the show dating Finn, the quarterback. When Finn joins glee club at McKinley high school, Quinn gets nervous that his attraction for Rachel Berry is going to grow. Not to worry though, c heerleading coach  Sue Sylvester  ( Jane Lynch ) has Quinn and her friends  Santana  ( Naya Rivera ) and  Brittany  ( Heather Morris ) join the club to help her bring it down from the inside. This helps Quinn get close to Finn and keep him away from Rachel. Quinn discovers that she is pregnant and she tells Finn that it is his baby, even though they had never had sexual intercourse before. The real father of Quinn's baby is Puck, who is Finn's best friend, but Quinn thinks that he is irresponsible and a loser. She decides to help out  Terri  ( Jessalyn Gilsig ), the wife of glee club director  Will Schuester  ( Matthew Morrison ), by giving the baby up for adoption and giving the baby to her because she is faking a pregnancy. When Sue Sylvester finds out that Quinn is pregnant she is kicked off the cheerleading team and then later convinces Sue that she should be on
the
team, but she chooses glee club because she feels accepted there. The first season ends with Quinn giving birth to Beth, which was names by Puck, and giving the baby up for adoption to  Shelby Corcoran  ( Idina Menzel ), coach of rival glee club Vocal Adrenaline.
No TrackBacks
TrackBack URL: https://blogs.psu.edu/mt4/mt-tb.cgi/181369
Leave a comment
Name
Email Address
URL
Remember personal info?
Comments
(You may use HTML tags for style)
Click here to subscribe to this post.
We are processing your request. If you don't see any confirmation within 30 seconds, please reload your page.
Search This Blog
Full Text
Tag
Recent Entries
Glee cast news
What's hot with our favorite cast members on Glee? Matthew Morrison, the glee coach Will Schuester, spent part of June…
By Jenna Klawiter | Comments (0)
Mark Salling
Mark Salling is an American actor and musician who has been is minor parts of movies and television shows such…
By Jenna Klawiter | Comments (0)
Dianna Agron
Dianna Agron was born in Savannah, Georgia, but she was raised in San Francisco. She has been in dance all…
By Jenna Klawiter | Comments (0)
Manage This Blog
Add an Entry
Add a Page
Blog Dashboard
Powered by
Movable Type
Links
Home