Amelia Vega ~ Celebrity
skip to main
|
skip to sidebar
Home
Celebrity
Our Sponsors
Home
Business
Internet
Market
Stock
Downloads
Dvd
Games
Software
Office
Parent Category
Child Category 1
Sub Child Category 1
Sub Child Category 2
Sub Child Category 3
Child Category 2
Child Category 3
Child Category 4
Featured
Health
Childcare
Doctors
music
politics
Uncategorized
Monday, January 17, 2011
Amelia Vega
7:14 AM
Wikipedia
No comments
Amelia Vega Polanco  (born November 7, 1984 in  Santiago de los Caballeros ,  Dominican Republic ) became the first  Dominican  woman to be named  Miss Universe , in 2003. At the age of 18, she was the youngest winner since 1994. [ 1 ] [ 2 ] Vega's father, Otto Vega, is a general medical practitioner with offices in New York City and Miami. Her mother, Patricia Polanco Alvarez, also born in Santiago de los Caballeros, was a previous national titleholder who represented the Dominican Republic at the 1980  Miss World pageant. Vega is the niece of the  Grammy Award –winning singer  Juan Luis Guerra .
Miss Universe [ edit ] The competition After winning the  Miss Dominican Republic Universe  title, Vega represented the Dominican Republic in the  Miss Universe 2003  pageant held in  Panama City ,  Panama  on June 3, 2003. She became the only titleholder from this country to win the title. [ 3 ] Vega was crowned in Panama. She wore a white evening gown during the competition, which featured strings of beads on the sleeves. As Miss Universe 2003, Vega traveled extensively working with internationally recognized HIV/AIDS organizations including the  Global Health Council ,  Cable Positive ,  amfAR , the Elizabeth Glaser Pediatric AIDS Foundation , and God's Love We Deliver. As a celebrity spokesperson, she was responsible for working with the international media to generate a better understanding and acceptance of  AIDS / HIV  epidemics and its prevention while helping to increase awareness, funding and resources for these key organizations. As Miss Universe, Vega represented the  Miss Universe Organization . Her "sister" 2003 titleholders were  Tami Farrell  ( Miss Teen USA , of Oregon ) and  Susie Castillo  ( Miss USA , of  Massachusetts ). Vega is the third among Miss Universe winners who also won the National Costume competition. Thailand's  Porntip Nakhirunkanok  won the award in 1988 and eventually won the crown then,  Wendy Fitzwilliam  of  Trinidad & Tobago  also won the Best National Costume and went on to win the 1998 Miss Universe crown. [ edit ] Post-crowning After moving to an apartment in New York provided by  Donald Trump  which was part of her overall prize package as the new Miss Universe titleholder, Vega visited many countries around the world including: Germany, Switzerland,  Ecuador , Canada,  Chile , China,  Indonesia , Mexico,  Puerto Rico ,  Thailand ,  Vietnam  and Russia. Vega returned to her home country several times, and was awarded an honorary medal in the  2003 Pan American Games , held in  Santo Domingo . Later that year, Vega co-hosted the  Festival Presidente de Música Latina , a  Latin American  music concert lasting three days and held every two years in the Dominican Republic. [ edit ] Career Vega has appeared in the cover of several magazines, from her local country's  Mujer Unica  and  Oh! Magazine , up to internationally known Cosmopolitan ,  Caras ,  Vanidades ,  Harper's Bazaar ,  Glamour ,  Selecta . She also has been the lead image for campaigns made by the beauty cosmetics company  Cover Girl , for the past 4 years. Vega debuted as a singer with her uncle " Juan Luis Guerra " in Madison Square Garden and American Airline's Arena. After her reign as Miss Universe came to an end, Vega worked as the host of the reality show  Voces de América,  that aired on the Telemundo network. She also hosted several editions of " Festival Presidente " where more than 60,000 people attended, Later she hosted "Suegras", a  reality show broadcasted in "USA" and Latin America. Her film debut was in 2005, co-starring in the film  The Lost City  directed by  Andy García . She had a special in Homie Spumoni, a motion picture starring  Donald Faison . and  Whoopi Goldberg , among others and was scheduled and released in summer 2008. In 2010 she became the host of the Mexican reality show "Segunda Oportunidad" with the Chilean  Rafael Araneda She also performed the video of "Mi corazoncito" of Dominican bachata music group Aventura. She played the part of the singer's girl. [ edit ] Business Vega is now concentrated on the development of her business career. She owns a boutique in  Miami ,  Florida  where she resides, named Essence by Amelia Vega and prepares to be involved on developing her career and stores. She cooperates to several charity foundations. [ edit ] Music Amelia's first single 'Pasa un Segundito' was released by  Itunes  on April 26, 2010. It became a top Latin song in just two days. Her cd Agua Dulce will be released in the summer 2010. [ edit ] Filmography
Homie Spumoni  (2006) .... Chanice (as Amelia Vega Polanco)
The Lost City  (2005) .... Minerva Eros
Posted in:
miss universe list
Email This
BlogThis!
Share to Twitter
Share to Facebook
Newer Post
Older Post
Home
0
comments:
Post a Comment
Blogger templates
Popular Posts
1st look of Poonam Pandey Gladrags Calendar 2011
1st look of Poonam Pandey Gladrags Calendar 2011
Exclusive GLADRAGS Calendar 2011 Picture of Poonam Pandey the Most Downloaded model on...
Monica Bellucci sexy
Monica Bellucci at the Festival di San Remo 2011 (Photos) The beautiful Monica Bellucci was interviewed along with Robert DeNiro during the...
hot Poonam Pandey
hot Poonam Pandey
View Model and Kingfisher Calender Girl 2011 Poonam Pandey Wallpaper
Blogroll
Categories
Bollywood Celebrity (Male)
(96)
Canadian actors
(15)
Canadian actress
(4)
Celebrity in news
(2)
celebrity news
(31)
chanakya
(3)
Chhavi Rajawat
(157)
Chinese actresses
(12)
country wikipedia
(167)
Cricket
(11)
Cricket News
(24)
Dalai Lama
(105)
Drew Barrymore
(17)
Fagun Thakrar
(17)
feamous celebrity
(163)
Global News
(9)
golf players celebrity
(26)
hollywood actress
(336)
hollywood singer
(40)
Hot News india
(10)
Igor Sechin
(18)
indian celebrity
(14)
indian cricket team celebrity
(27)
Indian film actresses (celebrity)
(106)
indian singers
(1)
Italian actresses
(40)
kate middleton
(90)
Minissha Lamba
(1)
miss universe list
(31)
Monica Bellucci
(168)
Natalie Glebova
(60)
Oxana Fedorova
(25)
poonam pandey
(142)
powerfull
celebrity
(65)
Religious Leader
(25)
Richest Celebrity Person
(8)
sachin tendulkar
(333)
Shahid Afridi
(11)
Silvio Berlusconi
(76)
sonia gandhi
(19)
sports celebrity
(43)
The World's Billionaires wikipedia
(4)
Tom Hanks
(7)
Top Movies Wiki
(284)
Vladimir Vladimirovich Putin
(2)
world leader (celebrity)
(47)
Yuvraj Singh
(59)
Zaheer Khan
(5)
Zarine Khan
(349)
Powered by
Blogger .
Links
www.Celebwikipedia.blogspot.com
wikipedia
About me
Wikipedia
View my complete profile
Followers
Pages
Home
Monday, January 17, 2011
Amelia Vega
Amelia Vega Polanco  (born November 7, 1984 in  Santiago de los Caballeros ,  Dominican Republic ) became the first  Dominican  woman to be named  Miss Universe , in 2003. At the age of 18, she was the youngest winner since 1994. [ 1 ] [ 2 ] Vega's father, Otto Vega, is a general medical practitioner with offices in New York City and Miami. Her mother, Patricia Polanco Alvarez, also born in Santiago de los Caballeros, was a previous national titleholder who represented the Dominican Republic at the 1980  Miss World pageant. Vega is the niece of the  Grammy Award –winning singer  Juan Luis Guerra .
Miss Universe [ edit ] The competition After winning the  Miss Dominican Republic Universe  title, Vega represented the Dominican Republic in the  Miss Universe 2003  pageant held in  Panama City ,  Panama  on June 3, 2003. She became the only titleholder from this country to win the title. [ 3 ] Vega was crowned in Panama. She wore a white evening gown during the competition, which featured strings of beads on the sleeves. As Miss Universe 2003, Vega traveled extensively working with internationally recognized HIV/AIDS organizations including the  Global Health Council ,  Cable Positive ,  amfAR , the Elizabeth Glaser Pediatric AIDS Foundation , and God's Love We Deliver. As a celebrity spokesperson, she was responsible for working with the international media to generate a better understanding and acceptance of  AIDS / HIV  epidemics and its prevention while helping to increase awareness, funding and resources for these key organizations. As Miss Universe, Vega represented the  Miss Universe Organization . Her "sister" 2003 titleholders were  Tami Farrell  ( Miss Teen USA , of Oregon ) and  Susie Castillo  ( Miss USA , of  Massachusetts ). Vega is the third among Miss Universe winners who also won the National Costume competition. Thailand's  Porntip Nakhirunkanok  won the award in 1988 and eventually won the crown then,  Wendy Fitzwilliam  of  Trinidad & Tobago  also won the Best National Costume and went on to win the 1998 Miss Universe crown. [ edit ] Post-crowning After moving to an apartment in New York provided by  Donald Trump  which was part of her overall prize package as the new Miss Universe titleholder, Vega visited many countries around the world including: Germany, Switzerland,  Ecuador , Canada,  Chile , China,  Indonesia , Mexico,  Puerto Rico ,  Thailand ,  Vietnam  and Russia. Vega returned to her home country several times, and was awarded an honorary medal in the  2003 Pan American Games , held in  Santo Domingo . Later that year, Vega co-hosted the  Festival Presidente de Música Latina , a  Latin American  music concert lasting three days and held every two years in the Dominican Republic. [ edit ] Career Vega has appeared in the cover of several magazines, from her local country's  Mujer Unica  and  Oh! Magazine , up to internationally known Cosmopolitan ,  Caras ,  Vanidades ,  Harper's Bazaar ,  Glamour ,  Selecta . She also has been the lead image for campaigns made by the beauty cosmetics company  Cover Girl , for the past 4 years. Vega debuted as a singer with her uncle " Juan Luis Guerra " in Madison Square Garden and American Airline's Arena. After her reign as Miss Universe came to an end, Vega worked as the host of the reality show  Voces de América,  that aired on the Telemundo network. She also hosted several editions of " Festival Presidente " where more than 60,000 people attended, Later she hosted "Suegras", a  reality show broadcasted in "USA" and Latin America. Her film debut was in 2005, co-starring in the film  The Lost City  directed by  Andy García . She had a special in Homie Spumoni, a motion picture starring  Donald Faison . and  Whoopi Goldberg , among others and was scheduled and released in summer 2008. In 2010 she became the host of the Mexican reality show "Segunda Oportunidad" with the Chilean  Rafael Araneda She also performed the video of "Mi corazoncito" of Dominican bachata music group Aventura. She played the part of the singer's girl. [ edit ] Business Vega is now concentrated on the development of her business career. She owns a boutique in  Miami ,  Florida  where she resides, named Essence by Amelia Vega and prepares to be involved on developing her career and stores. She cooperates to several charity foundations. [ edit ] Music Amelia's first single 'Pasa un Segundito' was released by  Itunes  on April 26, 2010. It became a top Latin song in just two days. Her cd Agua Dulce will be released in the summer 2010. [ edit ] Filmography
Homie Spumoni  (2006) .... Chanice (as Amelia Vega Polanco)
The Lost City  (2005) .... Minerva Eros
Posted by
Wikipedia
at
7:14 AM
Labels:
miss universe list
No comments:
Post a Comment
Newer Post
Older Post
Home
Subscribe to:
Post Comments (Atom)
Slidershow
Slidershow
Copyright © 2011
Celebrity
| Powered by
Blogger
Design by
Free WordPress Themes
| Bloggerized by
Lasantha
-
Premium Blogger Themes
|
ewa network review