THE BURMA NOVELS | THE AUTHOR'S HUB FOR 'THE BREVITY OF LIFE', A SERIAL POLITICAL THRILLER
THE BURMA NOVELS
HOME PAGE
DATELINE:BURMA
GET THE SERIES ON AMAZON.COM
NOW LAUNCHING ON ITUNES!
NOW LAUNCHING ON B&N!
THE AUTHOR'S HUB FOR 'THE BREVITY OF LIFE', A SERIAL POLITICAL THRILLER
December 9, 2011
‘The Unknown Country-Canada and Her People’
A year ago I returned to Canada after nearly fifteen years abroad. It was a melancholy return to say the least.
In the dead of winter and after more than a decade of not having to deal with snow, long underwear or shortened, sunless days I landed back in Toronto. I felt a strange nostalgia to reconnect with my country and said emotion generally drives me to read demonicaly.
So in a deeper search regarding my own family’s history in my home town of Ottawa, I recently completed reading Bruce Hutchison’s eloquent work, ‘The Unknown Country-Canada and Her People’.
Hutchison today is little known to Canada’s arts and lit crowd, even less beyond our borders yet he has a pioneer in Canadian journalism with a solid reputation and peer base in Washington, D.C. as well. Throughout the 1930s he wrote prolifically for
The Saturday Evening Post ,
Collier’s Weekly ,
Cosmopolitan ,
The American Magazine
and
Liberty   and was considered one of our country’s leading minds in current affairs and politics.
Three times a Governor General’s Literary Award winner and Officer of The Order of Canada, Bruce Hutchison published ‘The Unknown Country’ in the United States in 1942 as part of a larger campaign aimed at improving the American public’s knowledge of her Northern neighbour and newly minted military partner as the U.S. entered World War II.
He wrote eloquently about a young country still very much in its adventurous, pioneering youth. The world in 1942 was, even with a omenous war in Europe, still a wonderous place and the journalist’s eye for detail and drama is evident throughout the book.
It would probably be considered quaint by most readers today especially those outside of the country, and even to most of the new Canadians who have arrived by the millions over the past two decades. Fewer and fewer of us in an underpopulated territory such as ours, clinging as we do to the Southern border with America, have a long, historic familial tie to this country and the Land.
Be that as it may the underlying message of Hutchison’s cross-country journey and tales of Canada’s deep history, new and old, is one of hope. But a hope with a wary eye on the sociopolitical challenges the new democratic nation could see looming and awaiting it once the common bonds of the war ended.
For anyone wishing to get a good ground base in understanding the Canadian psyche and the history of the country’s founding warts and all, I would highly recommend this work. It would also make for good reading for many a Canadian politician as a reminder that the issues we are dealing with today as a country are in many ways not new to us at all.
Leave a comment
December 8, 2011
ANOTHER GREAT BOOK GIVEAWAY FROM GOODREADS.COM!
CLICK THRU FOR A CHANCE TO WIN AUTOGRAPHED COPIES FROM ‘THE BREVITY OF LIFE’ SERIES!
Leave a comment
November 25, 2011
Goodreads Book Giveaway; The Brevity of Life Part 1
Enter Now For Your Free Book, Signed by the Author.
Leave a comment
November 21, 2011
Writer’s Block, Tulum and the Road to Mexico City circa 1990
The single largest impediment to writing well and deliberately, the real writer’s block, is one’s dependence on a day job.  Writing pure fiction rarely pays the expenses of raising an expat family. This becomes more true the older one gets, with children and responsibilities for the health and welfare of others.
I can’t complain too loudy about my past fifteen years traveling the world on behalf of global brands, retailers and social accountability organizations. It has been through the largesse of employers as varied as Wal-Mart Stores, quality group Bureau Veritas and labour standard organization Worldwide Responsible Accredited Production (WRAP) that I had the global experiences I was seeking.
With limited opportunities on the horizon after a few years of studies in political science and economic history, I had set out for a few months of roughing it on the beaches of Mexico’s Caribbean coastline south of Tulum on the road to Chetumal. Definitely off the beaten path back in 1990. At 24 I was a directionless youth, looking for a lustful adventure on some far away beach with no more than $500.00 in my pocket and no plan beyond getting myself down to Cancun on as cheap as possible a charter flight as possible. My escape south was to lead to a two-year sojourn across the Yucatan to Mexico City where I fell in with an unlikely band of Lebanese mafia DJs based out of the city’s wealthy Polanco district. (As I’ve told many a friend over the years, life is better than a movie and makes for the best fiction storylines!)
The power of the ocean as tide and winds race across the Atlantic from Morocco to sandblast the Caribbean coastline of the Yucatan is impressive. Near everyday for the two months I spent at Don Armando’s palapas strewn out along the bleached sands below Tulum’s ruins, I would climb high to the top of the dunes looking out to the sea to meditate. I simply opened my mind to the sea and allowed my brain to be turned into a sieve by the burrowing, constant wind.
It is that state of mind I look to embrace when I sit to write.
2 Comments
October 22, 2011
From Occupy Wall Street to Occupy Hong Kong
After a week on the road across South Asia I’ve once again landed on my feet in Hong Kong, our home away from home where both my sons still count on a great many school chums from our six years here and where my wife’s close-knit group of Latina amigas are always after me to bring her along on my business trips.
Hong Kong is a vibrant and energetic place, a crossroads of trade and culture for more than a century now and the Special Administrative Region continues to act as an important conduit for finance, ideas and technologies into the Chinese mainland. Many people ask me if I’ve found any changes to the political and social freedoms Hong Kong had long enjoyed since its handover back to China in 1997 which I find difficult to answer as I didn’t move here until 2005. But what I can and do tell them is that dissent and freedom of speech are alive and well here. That said, there is also a palpable sense that at the governmental and business level, society tends to self censor itself so as not to raise the ire of mailand authorities.
I was surprised to find that a local version of the Occupy Wall Street movement (Occupy Central) was holding demonstrations in the city’s Central financial district as this is above all else a place made for and by business interests but I suppose I should not have been. Hong Kong is an expensive place to live with average 2 bedroom apartments in central areas of HK island and Kowloon district averaging $US 4,000  per month. As elsewhere, the gap between rich and poor has been growing over the past decade and while the territory registered a massive $US 9 billion fiscal surplus in 2010/11 and holds some $US 270 billion in foreign cash reserves, social services are meagrely funded.
With a change of local government looming large in 2012 and a vocal population expecting continuing reforms towards true democratic representation there will be growing pressure on whomever Beijing approves as the new Chief Executive to ensure concrete steps are taken to bridge the economic divide between haves and have-nots.
Leave a comment
October 15, 2011
Why Experiences Matter More Than Experience
I’d like to step back once again for my own reflection and to remind the reader what relevance to writing as an art or profession do my experiences working in retail procurement and supply chain management have.
No doubt there are a good many writers who have an abundance of imagination and the skillful ability to conjure up worlds via character and place but even those storytellers may well have turned to or developed their abilities due to a given set of circumstances, or experiences, in their own lives.
Those timeless, classic writers whose styles drifted from brutal simplicity to an insatiable application of colloquialism, are ones who lent heavily on their own direct experiences and those of their milieu. Hemingway has always been out in front of this narrow pack for me and Dickens to a great extent.
And so my own writing since an early feeble and imature state have borrowed heavily on the experiences of my childhood and young adulthood through to what I hope is just now APPROACHING middle age.
Early poems and short stories tending to be influenced by my youth in northern and eastern Canada and my upbringing across a string of military bases which has left a deep trough in my psyche even as I write about SE Asia, China or the developing world.
Like the life of any one of us, mine has been the progression and collection of experiences and experience in that order. It is quite possible for a writer to have had many experiences in his / her life without having been guided, moved or affected by them sufficiently to have then built up an ‘experience’, a real tool to be wielded by a maturing author. Having gained experience in this sense is somewhat similar to my parallel aspirations as a student of Buddhism and my path towards enlightenment. But it is through our experiences of life, of self-revelation, of struggling with the koan that we can achieve it; the journey not the destination fuels our karma.
Leave a comment
October 13, 2011
From Panama to Peng Chau II
We were back in Hong Kong by the New Year holiday of 1999 from our home base in San Jose, Costa Rica.
Following the birth of our first son Michael in Angelica’s hometown in Mexico and a couple of side trips to Paris (chasing a job interview with Carrefour) and Oaxaca (through the old Olmeca land down the mountains on cross-cut roads to the Pacific coastal hippie town of Mazunte), we had settled on a new challenge in Central America.
I was still a relatively brash young manager and I had sent off an email to Fung of Li & Fung, the world renowned trading company, asking for their expression of interest in supporting Corporacion MasXMenos’ buying needs in Asia. He was keen enough to set me up a meeting with the divisional manager assigned to handle a mixed bag of South American retailers. All I needed was my penny-pinching bosses approval for the trip.
Thankfully ahead of any such conversation, he was side-stepped by Don Carlos Uribe (the ambitious, open-minded young family member who held the reigns of the commercial division I reported to) as I was asked to report directly to him regarding my efforts to restructure and prepare the organization’s import buying team. The Asia foray was promptly approved and I wasted no time in paying out-of-pocket for my wife’s ticket as well…it was a fantastic opportunity to start thinking down the road for ourselves.
Leave a comment
October 11, 2011
From Panama to Peng Chau
To refresh my own train of thought over the past week, I maintain that the collection of ones experiences best prepares them for writing, best provide the stories upon which our fictions may build.
Compared to the dynamic vibrancy of Hong Kong and south China in the mid 90’s, Mexico was certainly living at its own pace and generally self-perpetuating its image in my mind as a culture with no intent on ‘catching up’ to the gringos. They would play them as long as they could, as they always had. Even with the launch of the NAFTA trade agreement, the devaluation and crisis of the Mexican peso in 94-95 put the country on uneven footing. Benefits were being gained via currency manipulations while actual productivity lagged far behind the levels expected or needed to ensure profitability.
My time in Mexico did provide a number of personal and professional benefits, however I might have been enamoured with the idea of landing on my feet in Asia; I married my best friend’s sister and I had my first real opportunity to understand the importance of labour as a cost, a commodity and tool.
The stars aligned in late 1997 which allowed me the opportunity to take a year off work and to spend it instead with my Mexican family in rural Mexico. When a non latin (read: AngloSaxon Canadian white guy) marries into a latin family, he learns very quickly that you indeed marry the family, not just the girl! I had figured this out sometime earlier during the year and a half we dated and lived more closely together, traveling and talking and making our plans to conquer the world.
Leave a comment
October 7, 2011
Go East, young man!
The past 15 years or so of traveling, working and living around the globe has provided a wealth of personal experiences, borrowed stories and anecdotes to draw upon when I am writing. THE BREVITY OF LIFE was actually the third project I had taken up based upon the early feedback of a number of US and UK based lit agents, positive and negative. By far it was the 7 or 8 years of heavily focused SE Asian travel that provided the most ample fodder for all three of the ideas then competing for my mental attention. But back to Hong Kong in 1995…
I spent almost 3 years from early ’95 through late ’97 working inside a little known organization which had grown from 2 to 24 offices scattered across the globe, charged with developing vendors and managing offshore production programmes for Wal-Mart Stores; PREL or Pacific Resources Export Limited. And while my direct duties were the setup, growth and management of a buying office in Mexico City at the start of the NAFTA era, the group’s roots, heart and soul were Asian.
And so it was that I was invited to Hong Kong early in my career as an energetic young sourcing & supply chain manager, still quite fresh from the U of T campus of downtown Toronto, with a couple of years backpacking and small business management experience gained on the ground in rural Mexico. It was an eye-opening, exciting trip to say the least.
By late 1995 China was well into a phase of startling economic growth which was to change the economic, political and cultural landscapes of not only Asia but the wider world as well. That initial first hand look as I stepped onto mainland China  after a two-hour ferry ride up the coast from Hong Kong’s Kowloon peninsula was breathtaking. Kilometers of newly constructed multi-lane highways sped off into the distance, gigantic cages of bamboo scaffolding enveloped the skeletons of building taking shape on all sides, bikes and cars and transport trucks jostled with pedestrians everywhere, adding to the chaotic, vibrant scenes of growth and industry, all quite impressive for a twenty-something year old on his first China foray.
Leave a comment
October 7, 2011
Write Something Worth Reading
“Either write something worth reading or do something worth writing.”
-Benjamin Franklin
I wholly agree that the best preparation for writing a good story is to have lived one or two yourself. And that means I also agree with the well-worn statement that we all have a story to tell; each our own lives’ worth.
I had been fascinated with Asia since the very first opportunity to travel there presented itself in 1995. I had moved on to Mexico City after a couple of month’s indoctrination into the Wal-Mart culture of Bentonville, Arkansas. The head office of the buying agency I had gone to work for, opening a new start-up location for Wal-Mart in Mexico, was located in Hong Kong. An annual meeting had been called near the end of the year and I still remember the enthusiasm with which I set off for the Orient.
Leave a comment
« Older
BNTwitterFeed Error: Twitter did not respond. Please wait a few minutes and refresh this page. The Brevity of Life Booksite
The Brevity of Life Booksite
Enlightened Visitors
286 hits
Create a free website or blog at WordPress.com .
The Manifest Theme .
Follow
Follow “THE BURMA NOVELS”
Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.
Build a website with WordPress.com
Add your thoughts here... (optional)
Post to
Cancel