Sharifimehr
Sharifimehr
هنری های تجسمی - پژوهش هنر ( Visual Arts & Art Research )
مطالب این وبلاگ حاصل انتخاب و گرد آوری نوشته ها و مقالاتی است که به تحلیل آثار هنری ، هنرمندان نقاش و مقالات پزوهشی در زمینه هنرهای تجسمی و پزوهش های نظری هنر می پردازد.
صفحه نخست
پست الکترونیک
آرشیو وبلاگ
عناوین مطالب وبلاگ
پیوندهای روزانه
The Cité Internationale des Arts ( شهر بین المللی هنرها در پاریس)
حراج کریستی
حراج ساتپی- لندن
موزه ویکتوریا و آلبرت- لندن
موزه هنر متروپلیتن نیویورک - آمریکا
موزه گوگنهایم نیویورک - آمریکا
موزه هنرهای معاصر مونتریال- کانادا
موزه هنرهای زیبای مونتریال- کانادا
موزه تیت لیورپول
موزه تیت بریتانیا- لندن
تاریخ هنر ( از دوره نوسنگی تا معاصر )
مرکز هنری باربیکن - لندن
موزه بریتانیا - لندن
بنیاد برکت - لندن
مال گالری - لندن
گالری هیوارد - لندن
موزه هنر مدرن - نیویورک ( منهتن )
موزه لوور - پاریس
ساتچی گالری - لندن
تیت گالری - لندن
نشنال گالری - لندن
رویال آکادمی - لندن
http://www.saatchi-gallery.co.uk
آرشیو پیوندهای روزانه
نوشته های پیشین
مهر 1392 شهریور 1392 مرداد 1392 تیر 1392 خرداد 1392 اردیبهشت 1392 فروردین 1392 اسفند 1391 بهمن 1391 دی 1391 آذر 1391 آبان 1391 مهر 1391 شهریور 1391 مرداد 1391 تیر 1391 اردیبهشت 1391 فروردین 1391 بهمن 1390 آذر 1390 آبان 1390 مهر 1390 شهریور 1390 مرداد 1390 اردیبهشت 1390 فروردین 1390 اسفند 1389 بهمن 1389 دی 1389 آذر 1389 آبان 1389 مهر 1389 شهریور 1389 مرداد 1389 تیر 1389 خرداد 1389 آرشيو
پیوندها
موزه هنرهاي معاصر تهران خانه هنرمندان ایران فصلنامه حرفه هنرمند دو هفته نامه تندیس فرهنگستان هنر گنجینه آثار مرکز هنرهای تجسمی ( حوزه هنری ) نقاشی , فلسفه هنر نقاشان جهان بنیاد آفرینش های هنری نیاوران
عکاسی معاصر -
حمید سوری عکاسی هنر و رایانه اخبار
روزانه هنر زندگی با رنگ ( رنگشناسی ) نقاشان فیگوراتیو گرافیک و چاپ مجسمه سازی مقالات پژوهشی در هنر نقد آثار هنری
سایت ماهنامه تخصصی اطلاعات حکمت و معرفت آثار ادبی ایران و جهان،نقد و نظر نقد فرهنگی، هنری هنر ، زیبایی شناسی ، نقد طراحی فیگوراتیو سایت بینال ونیز مجله فلش آرت سایت هنرمندان خودآموخته ( مکرمه قنبری ) تحقیق در طراحی پژوهش مباحث طراحی معاصر مدرسه طراحی پرینسس لندن چاپهای دستی معماری ( ققنوس ) مجموعه مقالات ( آرتی ) روش نقاشی آکادمیک هنرجدید (احمد نادعلیان) گروه هنری حجم سبز طراحی فیگوراتیو و آبستره هنربازیافت
Rubbish Art
نقاشی ها و داستان ها و یادداشت ها درباره چاپ دستی، نقاشی و هنر پژوهش هنر تصویر " سواد بصری" چاپهای دستی- طراحی قاب بی شیشه " هنر های تجسمی " ماه و مهر آفیش آرتنا شیرین نشاط نقاشی معاصر چین جایزه جادوی هنر معاصر ایران گالری ایزابل وندن اید فصلنامه هنر فردا نمادینه ماهنامه بیناب فصلنامه هنر اسلامی سه شنبه ها ویدئو آرت سایت تخصصی ویئو آرت - ایران
RSS
آمار
نقاشان فیگوراتیو معاصر ( 5 )
Lucian  Freud
Lucian Michael Freud ,
OM ,
CH
(born 8 December 1922) is a British
painter
of
German
origin.
He is the son of Jewish parents
Ernst Ludwig Freud , an architect, and Lucie née Brasch. He is the grandson of
Sigmund Freud , brother of the late broadcaster, writer and politician
Clement Raphael Freud
and of Stephan Gabriel Freud, and uncle of radio and television broadcaster
Emma Freud .
Freud and his family moved to England in 1933 to escape the rise of
Nazism , and became British citizens in 1939. During this period he attended
Dartington Hall
school in
Totnes ,
Devon , and later
Bryanston School .
Freud briefly studied at the
Central School of Art
in London then, with greater success, at
Cedric Morris '
East Anglian School of Painting and Drawing
in
Dedham , and also at
Goldsmiths College - University of London
from 1942-3. He served as a merchant seaman in an Atlantic convoy in 1941 before being invalided out of service in 1942. In 1943,
Tambimuttu , the Ceylonese editor, commissioned the young artist to illustrate a book of poems by
Nicholas Moore
entitled "The Glass Tower". It was published the following year by Editions
Poetry London
and comprised, among other drawings, a stuffed zebra (-cum-unicorn) and a palm tree. Both subjects reappeared in
The Painter's Room
on display at Freud's first solo exhibition in 1944 at the Alex Reid & Lefevre Gallery. In the summer of 1946, he travelled to Paris before continuing to Greece for several months. Since then he has lived and worked in London.
Freud's early paintings are often associated with
surrealism
and depict people, plants and animals in unusual juxtapositions. These works are usually painted with relatively thin paint, but from the 1950s he began to paint portraits, often nudes, to the almost complete exclusion of everything else, employing a thicker
impasto . With this technique he would often clean his brush after each stroke. The colours in these paintings are typically muted.
Freud's portraits often depict only the sitter, sometimes sprawled naked on the floor or on a bed or alternatively juxtaposed with something else, as in
Girl With a White Dog
(1951-52) and
Naked Man With Rat
(1977-78). The use of animals in his compositions is widespread, and often features pet and owner. Other examples of portraits with both animals and people in Freud's work include
Guy and Speck
(1980-81),
Eli and David
(2005-06) and
Double Portrait
(1985-86). He has a special passion for horses, having enjoyed riding at school in Darlington, where he sometimes even slept in the stables. His portraits solely of horses include
Grey Gelding
(2003),
Skewbald Mare
(2004), and
Mare Eating Hay
(2006).
Freud's subjects are often the people in his life; friends, family, fellow painters, lovers, children. To quote the artist: "The subject matter is autobiographical, it's all to do with hope and memory and sensuality and involvement, really."
"I paint people," Freud has said, "not because of what they are like, not exactly in spite of what they are like, but how they happen to be." Freud has painted fellow artists, including
Frank Auerbach
and
Francis Bacon . He produced a series of portraits of the
performance artist
Leigh Bowery , and also painted
Henrietta Moraes , a muse to many Soho artists. Freud is one of the best known British artists working in a traditional representational style, and was shortlisted for the
Turner Prize
in 1989.
His painting
After Cézanne , which is notable because of its unusual shape, was bought by the
National Gallery of Australia
for $7.4 million. The top left section of this painting has been 'grafted' on to the main section below, and closer inspection reveals a horizontal line where these two sections were joined.
Lucian Freud was a visiting tutor at the
Slade School of Fine Art
of
University College London
from 1949-54.
Although Freud is internationally acknowledged as one of the most important artists working today, there have been few opportunities to see his paintings and etchings in Britain. In 1996, Abbot Hall Art Gallery in
Kendal
mounted a major exhibition of 27 paintings and thirteen etchings, covering the whole period of Freud's working life to date. The following year the
Scottish National Gallery of Modern Art
presented "Lucian Freud: Early Works". The exhibition comprised around 30 drawings and paintings done between 1940 and 1945. This was followed most notably by a large retrospective at
Tate Britain
in 2002. During a period from May 2000 to December 2001, Freud painted
Queen Elizabeth II . There was significant criticism of this portrayal of the Queen in some sections of the British media. The highest selling tabloid newspaper,
The Sun , was particularly condemnatory, describing the portrait as "a travesty".In late 2007, a collection of Freud's etchings titled "Lucian Freud: The Painter’s Etchings" went on display at the
Museum of Modern Art . The etchings allow viewers to get a closer and more detailed look at the artist's creative process. Freud's works sometimes involve the same person and similar compositions, since his works are about getting to know the subject, prompting him to use the same person more than once when he feels there is more he can learn from him or her physically, mentally, or emotionally.
In May 2008, his 1995 portrait
Benefits Supervisor Sleeping
was sold by auction by
Christie's
in New York City for $33.6 million, setting a world record for sale value of a painting by a living artist.
In November 2008, letters written by Freud were obtained by
The Independent
under the
Freedom of Information Act . They detail his bitter dispute with some of the most powerful figures in the art world after he was asked to represent Britain at the 1954
Venice Biennale , the world's leading contemporary art exhibition. The publicity-shy portrait painter locked horns with gallery officials after a selection committee rebuffed his suggestions of works to show in Italy. The article includes a copy of the letter written by Freud to the
British Council
complaining about the selection process.
+
نوشته شده در جمعه شانزدهم مرداد 1388ساعت 16:30 توسط
|
نقاشان فیگوراتیو معاصر (4)
John Currin
John Currin (born 1962) is an
American
painter . He is best known for satirical figurative paintings which deal with provocative sexual and social themes in a technically skillful manner. His work shows a wide range of influences, including sources as diverse as the
Renaissance , popular culture magazines, and contemporary fashion models.  He often distorts or exaggerates the erotic forms of the female body.
Currin was born in
Boulder, Colorado , and grew up in
Connecticut , where he studied painting privately with a renowned traditionally trained artist from
Odessa ,
Ukraine , Lev Meshberg. He went to
Carnegie Mellon University
in
Pittsburgh , where he obtained a
BFA
in 1984, and received a
MFA
from
Yale University
in 1986.
In
New York City
in 1989 he exhibited a series of portraits of young girls derived from the photographs in a high school yearbook, and initiated his efforts to distill art from traditionally clichéd subjects. In the 1990s, when political themed art works were favored, Currin brazenly used bold depictions of busty young women, mustachioed men and asexual divorcés, setting him apart from the rest. He used magazines like
Cosmopolitan
along with old issues of
Playboy
for inspiration for his paintings. When criticized for being sexist, Currin did not deny it, but did remark that he felt that "at that time [he] didn't feel like a man and [he] didn't feel like a woman." In 1992 a subsequent exhibition focused, less sympathetically, on well-to-do middle-aged women. Nonetheless, by the late 1990s Currin's ability to paint subjects of
kitsch
with technical facility met with critical and financial success, and by 2003 his paintings were selling "for prices in the high six figures". More recently, he has undertaken a series of figure paintings dealing with unabashedly
pornographic
themes.
He has had retrospective exhibitions at the
Whitney Museum of American Art
and the
Museum of Contemporary Art, Chicago
and is represented in the permanent collections of the
Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden
and the
Tate Gallery .
Currin is based in New York City, where he lives with his wife and fellow artist, Rachel Feinstein.
+
نوشته شده در جمعه شانزدهم مرداد 1388ساعت 16:15 توسط
|
نقاشان فیگوراتیو معاصر (3)
Alex Kanevsky
Alex Kanevsky, born in Russia, came to the United States in 1983 with his family and settled in Philadelphia where he later studied and graduated from the Pennsylvania Academy of Fine Arts.
He was honored with many prestigious awards while attending PAFA including the Pearson Memorial Prize for Painting; the Pennsylvania Governor's Award for Painting; the William Emlen Cresson Memorial Travel Scholarship, which he used for travel in Italy, Germany, Switzerland, France and Russia in 1992; and a full fellowship to the Vermont Studio Center in 1994.   In 1997, Kanevsky was awarded a Pew Fellowship in the Arts for Visual Arts.
Alex Kanevsky Interview
Your use of motion, light and color is truly stunning, how did you invent or learn your technique?
Alex Kanevsky:
I didn't really invent or learn it as a technique. I am a slow learner, so it developed over a long time. I am also fairly slow when it comes to actual painting. Slow but impatient. That can be a problem, but over time I figured out how to turn this contradiction into my own way of working. I can't do slow and methodical accumulation painting: I get bored with careful, planned sort of activity. I also depend on freshness of perception, what zen-buddists call "beginner's mind". That is difficult to sustain over a long period. After a while you are just not a beginner. So I work fast, trying to hit the right note every time. That is nearly impossible, so I constantly fail. But I keep coming back to a painting. It accumulates layers, each one - more or lass a complete painting. Complete but failed. The layers are sort of like Swiss cheese - they have holes through which in right places you can see the previous layers. Eventually there are enough of "good holes" and also, because of all the repeated attempts, I manage to do a good top layer. And then I have a painting that has enough intensity in every passage to satisfy me. Then it is done. What inspires you? Everything. All first-hand experiences. John Adams wrote a beautiful composition titled "Naive and Sentimental Music". He took this title from a Friedrich Schiller essay "On Naive and Sentimental Poetry". Schiller decided that there are really just two kinds of artists: naive and sentimental. Naive artist works with the first-hand experiences, uncompromised by self-analysis. Sentimental are works that are self-aware of their place in history, theory, etc. One usually sees this kind of work accompanied by an artist statement. I think I am more naive than sentimental in the things that inspire me. Do you use photos as reference when you paint?
More as a departure point. I have always been painting both form life and from my own photographs. What attracted me to photos at first were aberrations, the unintended artifacts they produce, especially for a sloppy photographer like myself. When a camera produces an image it alters the reality in the ways that are not influenced by any aesthetic conceptions, emotions, etc. Being a human I cannot do this, can't be neutral in leaving my own imprint. I find both points of view, mine and the camera's equally interesting and useful. So I go back and forth between them. I have been doing it long enough, so now, if I wanted, I can paint from photograph and it will look like painting done from life and vice versa. Photography is completely integrated as a part of my work process. However as a straightforward reference it is not terribly useful. What would you say to an artist just starting out? Build up you self esteem to the level that might seem unwarranted. This will help you ignore both positive and negative responses to your paintings. Both are usually misguided, since they come from the outside. Be your most severe and devastating critic, while never doubting that you are the best thing since sliced bread. The moment something works well and is under control - is the time to give it up and try something else. Put all your eggs in one basket. Precarious situations produce intense results. Forget subjective, it is mostly trivial. Go for the universal.
+
نوشته شده در پنجشنبه پانزدهم مرداد 1388ساعت 17:3 توسط
|
نقاشان فیگوراتیو معاصر( 2)
Cecily Brown
Cecily Brown (born 1969) in
London
is a
British
painter. She has a great respect for
art history
and her works reveal her reverence and high regard for artists such as
Francisco de Goya ,
Nicolas Poussin ,
Willem de Kooning , and
Joan Mitchell
while incorporating into her works her distinct female view point.
Cecily Brown studied B-TEC Diploma in Art and Design at
Epsom School of Art ,
Surrey , England (1985–1987), drawing and printmaking classes,
Morley College , London, 1987–1989, and BA in Fine Arts,
Slade School of Art , London (1989–93).
Brown’s work has appeared at the
Whitney Biennial
2004 in New York, The Triumph of Painting at the
Saatchi Gallery , London and “Greater New York” at
P.S. 1 , New York. She has shown at galleries and museums including Contemporary Fine Arts in Berlin, MACRO in Rome and Museum der Moderna, Salzburg. She is represented by
Gagosian Gallery .
Cecily Brown’s paintings combine
figuration
and
abstraction . Expanding the tradition of
abstract expressionism , she draws her influences from painters such as
Willem de Kooning . Her paintings also recall the works of
Philip Guston
and the
Bay Area Figurative School
of the 1950s and 1960s. Brown often titles her paintings after classic Hollywood films, such as The Pyjama Game, The bedtime story and The Fugitive Kind.
Brown's work has attracted the attention of collectors including
Elton John
and
Michael Ovitz . She has become known for her painting style suggestive of abstract and abstract expressionist painters such as
de Kooning
and
Oskar Kokoschka . Sexuality and attraction are important themes in her work, which she explores through semi-figurative and abstract means.
+
نوشته شده در چهارشنبه چهاردهم مرداد 1388ساعت 15:2 توسط
|
نقاشان فیگوراتیو معاصر (1)
Mika Kato
Mika Kato was born in 1975 in Mie Prefecture, Japan. She has exhibited internationally in several international group exhibitions including ‘New Generation Japanese Painters’, Hiroshima City Museum of Contemporary Art, ‘Casino’, SMAK, Gent (2001), ‘Coloriage’, Fondation Cartier, Paris (2002) and ‘Roppongi Crossing’, Mori Art Museum (2004). Solo exhibitions include Tomio Koyama Gallery, Tokyo (2000), Contemporary Art Gallery, Art Tower Mito, Ibaraki (2001-2) and White Cube, London (2005).
Mika Kato paints exquisitely rendered portraits of young girls in precise, hyper-real detail, an approach countered by what are often looming and close-cropped compositions, as if the subjects had been viewed through a bulbous, fish eye lens. Kato’s portraits have a specific, articulated beauty: perfect oval faces, small noses and huge dark eyes that appear like pierced holes in the canvas. These portraits offer the viewer a mutated idea of what ideal beauty should be, an aberration of perfect form that provide glimpses into a fantastical and disturbing world. Kato’s process is deliberately laborious and studied: she starts by sculpting a doll out of clay before dressing and then painting an image of it, a process that allows the doll to become a kind of alter ego as the painting develops. Occasionally, an additional element such as an animal skull serves as a memento mori, or scarves and hats are added to create hint at the character of her fictional girls. But Kato rarely provides any extraneous detail, which lends her subjects a disembodied quality, enhanced by the way Kato rounds off the corners of her canvases so that they take on the shape of an old TV screen. Kato’s stylised and very particular vision not only references the preoccupation with idealised forms and youthful beauty in Manga, but also Surrealism, especially the dolls of Hans Bellmer and the erotic fantasies of Salvador Dali.
+
نوشته شده در چهارشنبه چهاردهم مرداد 1388ساعت 14:8 توسط
|
Powered By
BLOGFA.COM