HowTo:Blow a dog - Uncyclopedia, the content-free encyclopedia - Wikia
HowTo:Blow a dog
From Uncyclopedia, the content-free encyclopedia
Jump to:
navigation ,
search
If you're at work or school and someone sees you reading this, point to this picture, say "Isn't she cute?", and then quickly backspace the page. Practice doing this.
How to blow a dog?
is a question I've often asked myself. Realizing this, I suddenly knew that everyone else alive has often asked themselves the same question. After literally minutes of research I learned that
Cosmopolitan
magazine has never fully addressed this important topic, nor have any other girly, sporty, or scientificy magazines. And, most surprisingly, pet magazines catering to pet owners and dog "lovers" have never presented their target audience with the complete answer to, apparently, the most popular unasked question in the world: "How do I blow a dog?"
Well, guess what.
I don't take no for an answer.
I went out and found out firsthand how to blow a dog, and now I'll tell you so you won't have to
reinvent the wheel .
Contents [ show ]
Find a dog
First, find a dog. You may have one at home. Or the neighbors usually have some. This is an easy first step, as dogs are everywhere. And I've come to learn that all of them want to be blown.
Get the dog alone
This is easy if you have a dog at home. If you live alone with the dog, Bingo! Even if you live with other people, just get the dog to follow you into a room where nobody else is, or take it into the
basement . Getting it there is as easy as putting a treat in your hand, making one of those little sounds that the dog knows means either "come with me" or "food", and walking while patting the outside of your hip or thigh. The dog will follow. Even that Dog Whisperer guy will tell you that this stuff works. Pure gold, this information I'm giving you.
Tiny dogs are easier to blow, and they seem to want the experience to last just a little bit longer than the big dogs do. Go figure.
Romance the dog
You don't have to
romance
the dog. The dog wants to be blown as soon as you dim the lights and start the process. Give the dog a pat or a kiss on the head and you'll have it standing at attention and eating out of your hand. That's all you really need to do in the "romance" department.
Gender of the dog
Makes no difference. You know what to do either way.
Okay, just blow the dog already
Just blow the
dog . Start to apply hot air and friction to
whatever's down there . There you go, you've got the hang of it.
The two biggest problems as you blow the dog
I've found that there are two main problems you have to work around. First and foremost, pull away quickly when the dog starts to
pee . They love to play this joke on you. I've learned that. All dogs do it. You will be going along nicely, both of you enjoying the experience, and the dog will start to pee. The dog just lets it flow. Why? I dunno. But this is just what a dog likes to do if you are blowing it properly, so be prepared for it.
The other main problem is that if you are really blowing the dog, well, it will scream like a banshee. People within hearing range will think that you are pulling out the dog's insides with freakin' pliers or something. And all you're doing is making the dog happy. They all do this. I don't know what to tell you. Just be prepared.
After you blow the dog
Don't give it time to relax when you're done, just get it outside.
Let it outside. By this time it will be all superior and taking on the alpha role, and you're going to have to get it outside and watch it poop to put it back in its place. And leave it out there for awhile. At least for a few minutes after it starts to bark to be let back in, just to show it who's boss. If you don't do this you'll going to have a renegade dog on your hands, one who thinks that you're going to blow it every time it rubs its pretty tail in your face.
Well, okay, I wanted to answer the one important question that everyone's afraid to ask their
friends ,
family , or even some college undergrad working at one of those sick "Ask Me Your Most Embarrassing Question" Internet freak sites. I went in, did the experiments, and have clarified any remaining ambiguities. Now you know what I know. And if any of those doggy magazines or one of the fancy-pants plagiarizing columnists over at Cosmo
suddenly
starts to give out the same advice, you'll know where they got it. So, yeah, if you have any questions or some praise to bestow, take them to the source. Me. I did the work. I blew the dogs. And now I should reap the rewards.
Seems only fair.
Ashamed or just rehydrating? I dunno.
Featured Article
( read another featured article )
Featured version:
3 April 2010
This article has been featured on the main page. — You can vote for or nominate your favourite articles at
Uncyclopedia:VFH .
<includeonly> Template:FA/03 April 2010 Template:FA/2010 </includeonly>
Featured HowTo: Article
Featured on the 5th of June 2010
This
HowTo
has been featured on the HowTo: namespace. Want to know HowTo get your own HowTo featured? Just write
something good .
Retrieved from " http://uncyclopedia.wikia.com/wiki/HowTo:Blow_a_dog?oldid=5447524 "
Categories :
Featured FeaturedHowTo: Hot Hair Machines Animals Dogs Things Jesus Would Do Doggy Style Electronics
Views
HowTo
Discussion
View source
History
Personal tools
Log in / create account
Navigation
Main page
Featured content
Current events
Recent changes
Random feature
Random page
Projects
About
Search
Community
Help
Community portal
Village Dump
Pee Review
Votes for Highlight
Votes for deletion
Votes for Pictures
UnSignpost
Participate
Things to do
Requested articles
Requested images
Report a problem
What's happening
Foreign Office
Toolbox
What links here
Related changes
Special pages
Printable version
Permanent link
projects
This page was last modified on March 5, 2012, at 15:56.
Privacy
About Wikia
Terms of use
Contact
Advertise