Miranda Kerr Pictures: diciembre 2006
skip to main
|
skip to sidebar
viernes, 1 de diciembre de 2006
Biography
[FROM WIKIPEDIA]
Miranda May Kerr
(born 20 April 1983) [ 1 ]
is an
Australian
model , best known as one of the
Victoria's Secret Angels . She was the first Australian addition to the Victoria's Secret campaign, and was the face of Australian fashion chain
Portmans
and now
David Jones Limited . Kerr entered modeling in the
fashion industry
in her mid-teens after winning a 1997 Australian nation-wide model search hosted by
Dolly
magazine
and
Impulse
fragrances. [ 2 ]
Early life and family
Kerr was born in
Sydney
but raised in
Gunnedah ,
New South Wales , a small
rural
town. [ 3 ]
Her parents are Therese and John Kerr, and she has a younger brother named Matthew. During her childhood, Kerr stated she "raced motorbikes and rode horses on [her] grandmother's farm" and describes her early life in the Australian countryside as "very grounding ... there wasn't any pretentiousness and no one really cared what you were wearing. You could just be you." [ 4 ]
Her family moved to Brisbane to allow Kerr and her brother to experience city life. She graduated from
All Hallows' School
and planned to study
nutrition
before pursuing modeling. [ 4 ]
Dolly
magazine
At age thirteen, Kerr entered and won the 1997 annual
Dolly
Magazine/Impulse Model Competition. She was flown to Sydney a week before her fourteenth birthday to shoot for the magazine. Upon Kerr's win, local media expressed "concerned outrage" at her young age. The controversy raised concerns about the glorification of young girls within the
fashion ,
beauty , and
entertainment
industries. [ 4 ]
Some conservative media outlets claimed her
Dolly
shoot (including images of a fourteen-year-old Kerr in bathing suits) constituted a form of
child pornography . Of the press, Kerr said: "In the media at the time they were trying to cling on to anything remotely to do with pedophilia. Dolly is a magazine for teenage girls, not for old men. And I was fully clothed! Doing a winter shoot! They just made something out of nothing." [ 2 ]
Kerr suffered emotional distress following the death of her high-school boyfriend during her final year of schooling. Eventually overcoming the trauma, Kerr signed to Chic Management's
Sydney
division. She received considerable commercial exposure after a series of beachwear ads predominantly for Australian surf chain
Billabong , in which Kerr modeled surf brands Tigerlily, Roxy, Billabong Girls and One Teaspoon. This increased her profile in the Australian and Asian markets, after which Kerr relocated to
New York . [ 2 ] [ 4 ]
Career
Once in Paris, in 2003, Miranda Kerr signed with Madison Agency. She made an advertising campaign for Ober Jeans with photographer Erick Seban-Meyer.
Once in New York, Kerr had a multitude of
runway
appearances, and then signed with Next model agency in early 2004. From there, she was booked for runway and print campaigns for major labels, including
Alex Perry ,
Ayyıldız ,
Baby Phat ,
Lisa Ho ,
Voodoo Dolls ,
Levi's ,
Bettina Liano ,
Nicola Finetti ,
L.A.M.B. ,
Heatherette ,
Betsey Johnson ,
Trelise Cooper , Jets,
John Richmond ,
Blumarine
Swimwear,
Neiman Marcus ,
Seafolly Swimwear ,
Anna Molinari ,
Rock and Republic
and
Roberto Cavalli . [ 5 ]
She was also booked for print in magazines such as
Elle , Australian
Vogue
and
Harper's Bazaar , and was featured in television advertisements for brands like Portmans,
Bonds
and
Veet . [ 2 ] [ 4 ]
In 2006, Kerr broke into the United States market when she signed a lucrative cosmetics contract with
Maybelline New York . The campaign ran in a series of internationally sold women's beauty magazines, including
Cosmopolitan ,
CLEO
and
Elle , and was eventually featured in Victoria's Secret catalogues. [ 4 ]
Following her success with Maybelline, [ 4 ]
Kerr became the first Australian model to be offered a contract with
Victoria's Secret
and upon her acceptance, the first ever Australian Victoria's Secret Angel, [ citation needed ]
joining the stable of models already signed to the lingerie giant, including
Gisele Bündchen ,
Alessandra Ambrosio ,
Karolína Kurková ,
Adriana Lima ,
Selita Ebanks ,
Izabel Goulart , and
Heidi Klum . Kerr's popularity continued to increase as one of the globally recognized Angels when she appeared in the Victoria's Secret 2006, 2007 and 2008 televised runway shows, which aired on four continents. [ 4 ]
By 2007, Kerr had signed on as the face of Californian fashion retailer
Arden B.
After debuting in their Spring and Summer ad campaigns, Kerr returned for their Fall 2007 campaign, shot by fashion photographer Diego Uchitel. [ 2 ]
She has also become the new face of
Clinique
Happy , and signed a lucrative six-figure deal to be the new face of Australian department store
David Jones , replacing model
Megan Gale . [ 6 ]
In 2008, earning an estimated $3.5 million in the past 12 months,
Forbes
placed Kerr tenth in the list of the world's top-earning models. [ 7 ]
Kerr (along with several other Victoria's Secret and Next agency models) was featured in a music video for American
hip-hop
artists
Kanye West
and
Pharrell ' single
Number One . [ 2 ]
Following her modeling success with Victoria's Secret, Kerr made a small guest appearance in the
CBS
sitcom
How I Met Your Mother
alongside fellow Angels Adriana Lima,
Marisa Miller , Heidi Klum, and Selita Ebanks. [ 2 ]
Public image
Miranda Kerr
Kerr is dubbed "the next
MacPherson ". Kerr's model trademark are her
dimples . [ 4 ]
Celebrity photographer Russell James said of Kerr, "The US has fallen in love with her. We love her because she has the most incredible girl-next-door look and she's also insanely beautiful. It means women are not intimidated by her looks and guys think they might be able to talk to her. It's a fantastic combination ... people want to be around her; she's fun on a shoot … and she's not stupid, which can be a very annoying trait among some models." Model agent Ursula Hufnagl described Kerr as "the perfect endorsement", citing her ability to "truly sell a product." [ 4 ]
Kerr's charitable work includes
Wildlife Warriors Worldwide
and
Children International . [ 8 ]
Personal life
In 2003, Kerr began dating finance broker Adrian Camilleri. Following an
Australian Securities and Investments Commission
investigation, Camilleri was found guilty on five counts of
fraudulent behaviour
spanning between February 2003 to February 2004. Kerr subsequently ended the relationship. 2007 reports claim Kerr suffered financially "after taking her boyfriend's financial advice" but chose not to take legal action. [ 9 ]
Kerr practices
Nichiren Buddhism
— a
Japanese
branch of the
Buddhist
religion as a member of the
Soka Gakkai International — and believes "we have a responsibility to bring peace and harmony to our lives and the world." As part of her Nichiren beliefs, Kerr reportedly chants every morning and night for 20 minutes, practices yoga, meditates and reads widely on spirituality. [ 4 ]
According to a Victoria's Secret profile on Kerr, posted on the
CBS
YouTube
page, Kerr's described her take on life as "enjoying wherever it is [I am] and trying to be in the moment as much as possible". As reported in 2007, Kerr was writing an inspirational self-esteem self-help book called
Treasure Yourself
aimed at the female teenage demographic. Kerr says, "Basically, it's a whole lot of information that I've found, that has helped me. If I can help one girl by doing this then I've completed my purpose." [ 8 ]
In late 2007, Kerr began dating actor
Orlando Bloom . [ 10 ]
Orlando Bloom is also an SGI member.
On February 12, 2009 Kerr and Bloom actively participated in the 'Australia Unites' fundraiser to raise support for the victims of the
Australian bushfires on 7 February 2009 . [ 11 ]
She also dated Jay Lyon, the lead singer of the band Tamarama.
Publicado por
Gromov
en
4:33
No hay comentarios:
Entradas más recientes
Página principal
Suscribirse a:
Entradas (Atom)
.
Miranda Kerr nude. Miranda Kerr naked. Hot Miranda Kerr. Victoria’s Secret angels. Miranda Kerr sexy. Miranda Kerr pics. Adriana Lima Nude. Miranda Kerr fucking.
Biography
Birth name Miranda May Kerr Date of birth 20 April 1983 Age 25 Place of birth Sidney, Australia Height 1.75 m (5 ft 9 in) Hair color Brown Eye color Blue Measurements 81-61-86 Dress size 34 EU/9 UK/4 US Official website Wikipedia
Galleries
Tags
Miranda Kerr
(18)
Victoria's Secret
(15)
lingerie
(14)
swimsuit
(11)
nude
(6)
Black and White
(1)
Topless
(1)
Video
(1)
magazine
(1)
street
(1)
Archives
►
2009
(18)
►
marzo
(6)
►
febrero
(4)
►
enero
(8)
▼
2006
(1)
▼
diciembre
(1)
Biography