Willetta Warberg
"Curiosity and creativity have always been my guideposts. I
have had a number of careers—from concert pianist to advertising executive—but
in everything I did, I always strove to learn and to create. It doesn't matter
if it's interpreting a Beethoven sonata, or styling food for the camera, or
designing the packaging for a product, or figuring out the best way to promote
a new food. Curiosity and creativity keep one interested…and interesting."
—Willetta Warberg
Willetta Warberg (Bar-Illan) was born on June 2, 1932. The
name of
her birthplace was Twin Falls, Idaho. She has a twin brother William. Twenty-one months after those twins were born, her twin sisters Sara Lee and Zoe Ann arrived. Willetta's parents George and Ethel used to announce to every person they met "We're so glad we didn't settle down in Thousand Springs!"
Education and family
Warberg studied piano privately with Madame Teala
Bellini (1898-1981) in Twin Falls, Idaho, and with
Rudolf Firkušný
in Aspen, Colorado and New York City. She attended
Colorado Women's College, and went on to receive a BS from the
Mannes College New School of Music
in New York City in 1954.
She married Israeli-born pianist
David
Bar-Illan
(1930-2003) on Sept. 3, 1954, and had two children, Daniela and Jeremy Oscar. ( See Family Photos )
Musical Career
Willetta gave her first concert at the age of eight.
Warberg started playing piano at the age of four, giving her
first performance at the age of eight. By the time she was fourteen she had
given over thirty recitals throughout the Northwestern
United States. At the age of sixteen she won the Intermountain
Parade Talent Hunt playing
Manuel de Falla 's difficult
Ritual Fire Dance . As a teenager she
became a student of Rudolf Firkušný,
a Czech-born pianist who had studied with
Leoš
Janáček ,
Josef Suk , and
Artur Schnabel . He encouraged her to
pursue her piano studies, and she moved to New York City as his protégé. She
won a full scholarship to Mannes College
New School of Music in New York
from a field of two-hundred and fifty music students from around the country
and abroad. While at Mannes, she performed a Mozart piano concerto with the
Mannes Symphony Orchestra, and gave a recital of Chopin music. She received a
BS in piano performance from the college.
Willetta Warberg, age 22, accepting flowers from conductor Maurice
Abravanel after performing Cesar Franck's
Symphonic
Variations for Piano and Orchestra
with the Utah Symphony Orchestra, 1954.
On March 18, 1954, at the age of twenty-two and while she
was studying at Mannes, Willetta Warberg was invited by conductor
Maurice Abravanel
to travel back to her
hometown of Twin Falls, Idaho and play with the Utah Symphony, an eighty-piece
orchestra. She performed
Cesar Franck 's technically challenging
Symphonic Variations for Piano and Orchestra
with the Utah Symphony Orchestra, with Abravanel conducting.
While studying at Mannes, she met and married fellow pianist David Bar-Illan. After getting
married she worked full-time doing photographic food styling, advertising, and
writing, and spent evenings  promoting her
husband in his musical career. She sent clippings about his performances to
music organizations, newspapers, and other media, giving him name recognition
around the world. She became well-known in musical circles, and knew many
prominent musicians well, including
Leonard
Bernstein , who was a lifelong friend, and who gave the Bar-Illans use of
his country cabin one summer. Willetta and David
Bar-Illan traveled widely on tour in many countries in Europe and South
America, as well as in Israel. Andre Mertens, a
world-renowned impresario and Vice President of Columbia Artists, was David’s
agent. He remarked that he had no trouble booking David anywhere, since
Willetta had already given him name recognition.
Clara Mertens, David Bar-Illan, Willetta Bar-Illan, and David’s
agent, André Mertens, backstage at Carnegie Hall after one of David’s concerts
in 19xx. Clara Mertens later donated her husband’s instrument collection to the
Metropolitan Museum, creating the André Mertens Galleries for Musical
Instruments.
While attending Mannes College of Music in New York City,
Warberg was invited to be the guest artist with the Utah Symphony,
under the direction of
Maurice Abravanel . This is the program for that concert, which included the difficult Symphonic Variations for Piano and Orchestra by Cesar Franck. Warberg was twenty-two.
When she returned to Idaho after her successful career in
the publishing world in New York City, she joined the faculty of the
Renaissance Academy for the Arts in Twin Falls, Idaho (1984), and within a year
had forty-four piano students there and in her home.
In 1991, Warberg moved to Woodstock, NY from Idaho
to help operate and manage her daughter's restaurant. Warberg also became the
restaurant's baker and pastry chef. She established the Warberg Studios to
teach piano performance. Each year, she produced a program of performances by
her students. On many of these occasions, these programs also included students
of other music teachers, including soprano and voice teacher Danielle Woerner. Warberg
has also been an Artist-in-Residence of the Holy Cross Concert Series in Kingston, NY
since 1994.
After settling in Woodstock, NY, Willetta Warberg renewed
her friendship with composer Robert Starer, and the two became the Warberg-Starer Piano Duo. They concertized from 1991 until Starer's death in 2000. He dedicated several pieces to her, including one for the right hand alone, written after she injured her left arm.
She reconnected with her old friend
Robert Starer
and they began performing together as a piano duo. Warberg and Robert Starer had met
years earlier when her then husband, pianist David Bar-Illan, recommended Starer to a friend at CBS who was
looking for a composer to write background music. Starer later asked David Bar-Illan to premiere his
Piano Concerto No. 2
with the
New York Philharmonic
under
Dmitri Mitropoulos . Mitropoulos and his
assistant, Trudy Goth, were frequent dinner guests with the Bar-Illans in New
York City. When Willetta Warberg moved to Woodstock in 1991, she dropped Starer
a note. They began a musical partnership and performed as a duo up until
Starer's death in 2000. Starer dedicated several pieces to Warberg, including
"Prelude for the Right Hand," written after she broke her left arm. Warberg
premiered that piece at the
Maverick
Concert Hall . Also dedicated to Warberg was Starer's composition
"Mountaincalls," which was published in the March/April 1995 issue of
Keyboard
Classics & Piano Stylist
magazine.
[Text from poster on right: "Starer and Warberg are considerable musicians and they
offered some major-league insight in their playing."
Woodstock Times
" . . .
rich-textured, deeply expressive music that had something to say, and
sold it with fervor, originality and conviction."
New York Times
"Robert Starer’s Sonata is most impressive – rigorous, compact, and rather
intense, inventive with memorable figurations and textures. It reminds the
listener how much more orchestral and complex the two-piano medium is than its
solo sister."
American Record Guide ]
Food Writer, Editor, and Photographic
Stylist
At the age of twenty-four (1956), Warberg became the Associate
Food Editor for
Look
magazine.
William
Hollingsworth Attwood , later an advisor to
As Food Editor of
Ladies Home Journal , Warberg worked with major chefs, including James Beard
President John F. Kennedy
and the US Representative to the
United Nations , was one of her mentors
at the magazine. Another important mentor was
Hubert Pryor , editor of
Modern Maturity
magazine (now
renamed
AARP The Magazine ). Pryor had been a journalist for the
United Press
wire service, the
New
York Herald Tribune , and
CBS ,
covering South America and later the United
Nations. Bar-Illan continued to work with Pryor when he became Senior
Editor of
Look
magazine and then Editor of
Science Digest .
She became skilled at artfully arranging food for
photographing. Her job entailed preparing the food; deciding on, gathering, and
arranging the props; and writing descriptions of and recipes for the food. Her
own description of her job as food stylist was that she made food "ultra
photogenic for the camera." During this period she worked with major
photographers and advertising agencies. In 1961, she worked as the Food Editor
for
Status
magazine and
Photographic Stylist
for
Gourmet: The Magazine of Good
Living . In that capacity, she was responsible for food styling for the
covers of
Gourmet
from 1961 to 1964. In
1963 she was named Food Editor for the
Ladies Home Journal , a position she
held until 1966.
From 1965 to 1975, she worked as a freelance writer,
nutritionist, publicist, food consultant,  and photographic food stylist. Her projects
included Mary and
Vincent Price 's renowned
Treasury of Great Recipes , consulting,
styling, and writing food and science articles for
Cosmopolitan ,
Modern Maturity ,
Esquire ,
Redbook ,
McCall's ,
Bride's Magazine ,
Bon Appétit ,
Food &
Garden,
American Home ,
Glamour ,
Readers'
Digest , et al.
She wrote a series of one or two page features
for
Cosmopolitan
offering food or
beverage ideas for two people, each accompanied by recipes, photographs of the
food, and a photograph of a couple.
The photographer gets the credit for taking a beautiful
picture of food, but without the photographic stylist, there is no beautiful
food to take a picture of. Warberg arranged this plate of hors
d'oeuvres (left) for the cover of
Applied Photography International
Number 5, The international Publication of Professional Photography, © Kodak,
1968. Her stylings were also seen in the photographs on the back cover
(knockwurst and potatoes, center) and the inside front cover (paella and assorted
breads, right) of this issue. In Willetta's words: "My job was to make the
food ultra-photogenic." The photographer was
Elbert Budin . Click on the images to see larger versions.
Her article for
Science
Digest , "Dinner in 90 Seconds: What the food revolution will do to your
kitchen" made uncannily accurate predictions about food preparation as it would
be in the future, including freeze-dried foods, boil-in bags, and the future popularity
of microwave ovens. She developed recipes for the
Tavern on the Green , the
Four
Seasons , and  the Forum of the Twelve Caesars
in New York City. During this time she authored two cookbooks:
Cooking from Scratch: A Single Man's Guide
to Making Out in the Kitchen
( Ballantine
Books , 1976), and
Space-Age Cookery:
the complete handbook of food processing
( Pinnacle Books , 1976).
Advertising, Promotion, and
Public Relations
After twenty-eight years working in the publishing world in New York City, Warberg returned to her hometown of Twin Falls, Idaho
in 1976 and began a successful career as an advertising executive. She opened
Willetta Enterprises, doing market research; planning and implementing market
campaigns; and writing reports for clients that included major advertising
agencies, magazines, food manufacturing and processing corporations, packaging
companies, and book publishers. Her corporate clients included
Lipton ,
Knorr ,
General Mills ,
Coke ,
Tab ,
Pepsi ,
Kellogg's ,
Stouffer's ,
Campbell's Soup ,
Bounty ,
Ocean Spray ,
Morton Salt ,
Jack Frost Sugar ,
Green Giant ,
Howard Johnsons ,
Horn
& Hardart ,
Libby's ,
Heinz Foods ,
Nestlé's ,
Sweet'n Low ,
Holland House ,
Post
Cereals ,
Corning Glass Works ,
Carling ,
Dole , and
Del Monte .
Consultation services included
recipe development, food promotion, food writing, editorial consultation, food
research, photographic styling for still and television camera, and packaging
development.
Her company worked with ad agencies such as
McCann Erickson ,
Jay Walter Thompson ,
Benton & Bowles ,
Leo
Burnett ,
Grey Advertising ,
Ogilvy & Mather ,
Compton, Young &
Rubicam , and AV Corp. She
designed packaging for
Lipton
instant soups and
Corning
glass
casserole dishes, among others. She wrote many pamphlets on specific foods as
promotions for food companies, including
Dannon
Yogurt
(see below),
Kandy Korn , Musser Seed Company (a new hybrid corn for which Warberg wrote an eighty-page cookbook), and
many other food products. Her company was given the job of promoting the new
food product known as the
Sugar Snap Pea
(See below.).
Click here to see larger images.
Working with Doug Ness, Founder and President of Ness, LLC,
Warberg promoted Jerusalem artichokes, renaming them Sun Roots. She invented
many recipes for them, which were published in a pamphlet.  She had gotten to know chef
Julia Child
from the gourmet cooking
world, and received a letter from Child thanking Warberg for reintroducing her to the vegetable.
As a client of the George W. Park Seed Co., Warberg also
promoted kuta squash, a versatile vegetable that could be harvested early as a
summer squash or later as a hard-shelled winter squash. She wrote an article
about the vegetable's unique characteristics which became a cover story for the
February, 1981 issue of
Family Food
Garden
magazine.
During this time she wrote a nationally syndicated food
column,
Home-Town Market Basket
(1978-1987).
She also served as
Food, Music, and Art Editor for the Twin Falls, Idaho
Times News  from 1978 to1987 and wrote a column for that
newspaper entitled "Willetta Says." In these local and national columns she
wrote articles on seasonal foods, local foods, natural foods, and other topics
that, while commonplace today, were innovative for the time period. For
example, she encouraged readers to look for and pick wild asparagus in the
spring, and to make their own baby food instead of buying it in jars.
Sugar Snap Peas
The sugar snap pea was an unknown vegetable when it was
introduced by the Gallatin Valley Seed Company in 1979. Warberg's successful promotional campaign included a cookbook (above, left) and the cover article for
Family Food Garden
magazine in January, 1979 (right). Today, sugar snap peas are found in every supermarket.
Warberg was given the task of introducing a new variety of
pea by the Gallatin Seed company in 1980. The snap pea had an edible pod, like
the snow pea, but was fuller and juicier. She hosted a champagne reception at
New York's Four Seasons
restaurant
which was attended by food executives, food critics, restaurateurs, and other
dignitaries from around the US.
The Four
Seasons
restaurant became the first restaurant to put sugar snaps on
the menu. Warberg wrote promotional flyers, brochures, and a cookbook
describing uses of the snap pea. Knowing that the snap pea would sell itself if
people would taste it, she packaged samples of the peas with informational
literature and handed them out to people. She tried to get a bag of sugar snap
peas on the desk of the United States President, but had to settle for
distributing them to every US
Senator. The national campaign was very successful, and the sugar snap pea is
now a popular snack and salad vegetable found in every supermarket. She also
marketed a jarred version of her own recipe for snap peas in vinegar marinade
called Idaho Sugar Snap Peas which was highly successful as a cocktail snack.
Click here to see enlarged images.
Dannon Yogurt
In the 1950s and 1960s, yogurt was considered a food only
eaten by health-food fanatics. Warberg's promotional campaign helped make it a mainstream
supermarket food item.
Juan Metzger , a partner and later head
of
Dannon Yogurt
in the US, brought
yogurt to
Look
magazine in 1956, and Willetta Bar-Illan wrote a short
"Item of Interest" feature on the new food for
Look . Metzger, who became a lifelong friend of Willetta's, is
credited with the idea of putting fruit in the bottom of yogurt containers. He
also created the " In Soviet Georgia " ad
campaign showing Russians in their nineties eating yogurt. The campaign was
highly acclaimed, and is still considered one of the best television ads in
history. In 1976, Warberg started working directly for Dannon as a food consultant and recipe
developer, and was named Director of Public Relations for them in the
Northwestern United States.
One of the events she produced for Dannon was a reception in a ski lodge in the mountains of Idaho in
January, 1978. The Sun Valley Nordic Ski Touring-in Cabin Party took place at
Warberg's family ski retreat in the Sawtooth Mountains, Longhorn Lodge. In
addition to Juan Metzger (who was by
then President of Dannon and Vice
President of
Beatrice Foods ,
guests included other top Dannon executives and prominent Sun Valley skiers,
including Lief Odmark, known as "Mr. Sun Valley,"  who had been a member of the Swedish national
cross-country and jumping ski teams in his homeland, and coached the US Olympic
cross-country team in 1952. Also in attendance was
Dick Fosbury , the Olympic Gold Medal high jumper who revolutionized
high jumping when he invented the "Fosbury
Flop," the now-universal technique of twisting the body and going over the bar
on one's back. Another Olympic Gold Medalist,
Gretchen Fraser
(the first American to win a Gold Medal for skiing)
also attended. Representatives of all the major media were present. All of the
guests traveled two and a half miles by cross-country skis to the beautiful
lodge. There they enjoyed a buffet of gourmet foods prepared using Warberg's
recipes, including Idaho trout with yogurt sauce, baked Idaho ham, Idaho
potatoes with yogurt topping and a variety of sprinkles, Idaho wine, and
chilled fruit yogurts served with macaroons from a local gourmet pastry shop.
[ Photo on right: This was the invitation Willetta Enterprises sent out for a
Dannon Yogurt ski lodge party in the Sawtooth Mountains of Idaho in 1978. Guests, including Olympic champions, media representatives, and food industry executives, arrived by cross-country skis, and dined on a feast of gourmet dishes featuring Dannon Yogurt, with original recipes by Willetta. ]
Israeli Restaurant Study
In 1960, Willetta Warberg was commissioned by the US State
Department to spend several weeks in Israel assessing the restaurants in Israel. Her detailed report helped the young country improve its desirability as a tourist destination.
Willetta Bar-Illan (née Warberg) traveled to Israel in 1960
for the United States Department of State to help the newly formed country
develop a national cuisine. She was good friends with the owners of the
Tavern on the Green
in Central Park in New
York City, and Arthur Schleifer
gave her a run-through
of restaurant operation before she embarked on the tour of Israeli restaurants.
The nation of Israel was founded in 1948. In the
early years, the focus of the government and the population was on establishing
agriculture, building industry, and ensuring self-defense. The
Kibbutz movement , which
had begun decades earlier with Russian immigrants escaping the
pogroms , grew into a vast
network of international pioneers ready and willing to work the land and to
live communally. During the 1950s, more than 65,000 people lived and worked on
kibbutzim, out of a total national population of around two million. Even those
living in towns and cities worked hard and felt themselves part of a dedicated
nation-building movement. Although the land was more than fifty percent desert,
innovative irrigation and other technologies allowed agriculture to flourish.
In 1960, the Government of Israel decided to work towards
making tourism a viable industry. The Israel Government Tourist Corporation (now
the Israel Ministry of Tourism) approached the
US International Cooperation
Administration
(now the US Agency for
International Development, or USAID), and Willetta Bar-Illan was hired as a
member of the Survey Team for the Study of Tourism in Israel. She had already spent time
in Israel
in 1955 and 1959 with her husband, pianist David Bar-Illan. Her task for this
project was to spend  five weeks in Israel
in order to assess the current state of tourism and to make detailed recommendations.
What she found was a nation where restaurants were often thought of as merely a
place to get nourishment during or after a long day of hard work. Although
there was already a small tourist industry, few restaurants, even those in the
major hotels, came up to international standards of what tourists expected. One
important finding of Bar-Illan's survey was that local foods, supplies, and
restaurant equipment were available but were not being utilized.
In her report, Bar-Illan said, "Since the restaurants that
cater to tourists are directly responsible for the expenditure of foreign
currency in the country, there is no reason why the Israeli Government should
not consider them an export industry and afford them concessions [such as
discounts on loans and utilities]." [Footnote
to Research report "1960 Study of Restaurants…p. 56] She recommended that
the Tourist Corporation work with tour guide companies to get them to insist on
better quality food. She also made recommendations for a national system of
education for the restaurant industry, including a professional high school, a
hotel/restaurant academy, and a library.
Noting that tourists in Jerusalem said there was nowhere to go in the
evenings, she advised the restaurants to hire musicians playing local
instruments and dancers in characteristic dress. To cater to the American
tourist, she recommended that American-Jewish deli restaurants be established.
Roadside restaurants, she said, should serve lighter fare, including fresh
vegetables and fruits, and should emphasize the Biblical significance of their
locations through their restaurant names and the names they give to foods on
their menus.
Black
and White portrait of Willetta Bar-Illan (late 1950s) by Polly van Leer (1893-1974), a Dutch artist, philanthropist, and founder of the
Van Leer Jerusalem Institute . On their European trips, Willetta and David often visited her in her home outside Versailles.
The Sheraton Tel Aviv Hotel held a week-long inaugural
celebration for their new hotel in March of 1961, with a menu inspired by the
suggestions Willetta Bar-Illan had given them. In accordance with her
recommendations, items on the menu were given Hebrew names (transliterated into
English letters), and each item was described. On the cocktail buffet were
Matamai Milon (Anchovy-ringed melon balls) and Falafel (Chickpea croquettes)
with Tahina (Spicy sesame seed sauce). Entrees included Dag-Banana Bishkedeem
(Fish with bananas and almonds in sherry sauce) and Orez Botneem (Spicy peanut rice).
In place of the former canned fruits, guests were offered desserts such as
Glidah Avocado (Avocado-lime ice) and Ugah D'Vash (Honey cake).
Although much of the report was confidential, the Israeli
press gave Bar-Illan's project an enthusiastic response.  Headlines included: "Time to Create an
Israeli Cuisine"; "Kosher Food Can Be Made Tasty"; "What is Israeli Cooking?";
and ."Seeking a National Dish." The
Jerusalem Post
gave a sample of a
breakfast of local Israeli foods, including herring, smoked fish, eggs, olives,
and tomatoes. The
New York Times , writing before Willetta Bar-Illan left for Israel,
quoted her as saying "Tourism could become a vital part of the country's
economy."
Over the following decades, as her ideas were implemented
and more attention was paid to the benefits of tourism,
Israel
became a major tourist
destination. In 2008, over three million tourists visited the country, of which
34% were Jewish and 58% were Christian. Extensive surveys showed that tourists gave high
marks to Israeli restaurants, cleanliness, and the public attitude of Israelis
towards tourists.
Hospital Study
In 1982, Willetta Enterprises was engaged to do a
feasibility study of the possible acquisition of a local hospital by a national
hospital corporation. The report gave careful analysis of the financial issues,
including projected population growth as compared with necessary modernization
of equipment, services, and facilities. Warberg identified critical issues,
including the fact that local hospital management, doctors, and staff were
skeptical about the national organization's management abilities. Several
long-time nurses had been fired without explanation, creating bad feelings.
Doctors had come to the nurses' defense. The national firm seemed to be making
unilateral decisions without realizing the ill will it was creating in the
community. Warberg's study pointed out the importance of building community
support.
Warberg's Twin Falls upbringing gave her a significant edge
in relating to and assessing the community. She had gone to school with
community leaders; she had twenty-eight years of public relations experience
back east; and since she had moved back to Idaho, she had become acquainted, or
reacquainted, with everyone important in town. Her report was filled with
invaluable inside information, including a list of one hundred influential area
residents, as well as their family and social relationships (e. g., a
well-known lawyer who was also a major stock holder in his cousin's bank; a
Mormon doctor who didn't adhere strictly to all Mormon lifestyle principles but
nevertheless had excellent contacts within the Mormon community; and several
local clergy members who were most likely to be included in social gatherings).
Warberg put herself on the list of influential people in the community: "I
happen to be part of the social network because of my pioneer stock in the area
and my past and present careers, plus my weekly newspaper column and my contact
with the local and national media. I guess I'm sort of considered a celebrity
here. I'm very opinionated, as you know."
As a result of Warberg's study, community leaders were
brought into the process, and the transfer of management was accomplished
successfully and smoothly.
Page One
Education and family
Musical Career
Food Writer, Editor, and Photographic Stylist
Advertising, Promotion, and Public Relations
Sugar Snap Peas
Dannon Yogurt
Israeli Restaurant Study
Hospital Study
Page Two
Other Careers
Volunteer and Leisure-time Activities
Volunteer activities
Books by Willetta Warberg
Research Reports by Willetta Warberg (Willetta Bar-Illan)
Weekly columns by Willetta Warberg
Articles by Willetta Warberg (Willetta Bar-Illan)
Articles about Willetta Warberg (Willetta Bar-Illan)
Piano Performances and Productions by Willetta Warberg
Awards
Other Sites of Interest
Family Photographs
Website researched, compiled, written, and edited by
Miriam Villchur Berg
with Willetta Warberg.
All written material copyright Miriam Villchur Berg. Site
by
Judy Sullivan .