This Female Fights Back! | Longbox Graveyard
Skip to navigation
Skip to main content
Skip to primary sidebar
Skip to secondary sidebar
Skip to footer
Longbox Graveyard
Marvel and DC comics and community
Home (Almost) Free Comics! About Longbox Graveyard Checklist Dudley Serious! Dudley Serious Saves The World (Instructions) Dudley Serious Saves The World Page 1 Dudley Serious Saves The World Page 10 Dudley Serious Saves The World Page 11 Dudley Serious Saves The World Page 12 Dudley Serious Saves The World Page 13 Dudley Serious Saves The World Page 14 Dudley Serious Saves The World Page 15 Dudley Serious Saves The World Page 16 Dudley Serious Saves The World Page 17 Dudley Serious Saves The World Page 18 Dudley Serious Saves The World Page 19 Dudley Serious Saves The World Page 2 Dudley Serious Saves The World Page 20 Dudley Serious Saves The World Page 21 Dudley Serious Saves The World Page 22 Dudley Serious Saves The World Page 23 Dudley Serious Saves The World Page 24 Dudley Serious Saves The World Page 25 Dudley Serious Saves The World Page 26 Dudley Serious Saves The World Page 27 Dudley Serious Saves The World Page 28 Dudley Serious Saves The World Page 29 Dudley Serious Saves The World Page 3 Dudley Serious Saves The World Page 30 Dudley Serious Saves The World Page 31 Dudley Serious Saves The World Page 32 Dudley Serious Saves The World Page 33 Dudley Serious Saves The World Page 34 Dudley Serious Saves The World Page 35 Dudley Serious Saves The World Page 36 Dudley Serious Saves The World Page 37 Dudley Serious Saves The World Page 38 Dudley Serious Saves The World Page 39 Dudley Serious Saves The World Page 4 Dudley Serious Saves The World Page 40 Dudley Serious Saves The World Page 41 Dudley Serious Saves The World Page 42 Dudley Serious Saves The World Page 43 Dudley Serious Saves The World Page 44 Dudley Serious Saves The World Page 45 Dudley Serious Saves The World Page 46 Dudley Serious Saves The World Page 47 Dudley Serious Saves The World Page 48 Dudley Serious Saves The World Page 5 Dudley Serious Saves The World Page 6 Dudley Serious Saves The World Page 7 Dudley Serious Saves The World Page 8 Dudley Serious Saves The World Page 9 Longbox Graveyard Podcast & More! Longbox Graveyard Report Card Scripts Rune (Part 1 of 2) Rune (Part 2 of 2) The Lost Ultraverse “Sludge” Story Super-Blog Team-Up! Top Tens!
YouTube
Flickr
Twitter
Facebook
RSS Feed
← Capes & Cowls
Longbox Soapbox (Fall 2011) →
This Female Fights Back!
Dec 7
Posted by
Paul O'Connor
Longbox Graveyard #25
The 1970s were the decade when women’s rights entered American popular culture.
Helen Reddy ‘s “ I Am Woman ” hit #1 in 1972,
Billie Jean King
beat
Bobby Riggs
in an
enormously-hyped tennis court battle of the sexes
in 1973, and Archie Bunker’s battles with his liberated, live-in daughter (and every other ethnic and societal stereotype) were front-and-center in
All In The Family , the top-rated television show from 1971-1976. The newsstand brought us
Ms. Magazine , and a new version of
Cosmopolitan
aimed at young women. The state-by-state battle for ratification of the (ultimately doomed)
Equal Rights Amendment
was a premiere political story of the decade.
Women’s Lib
was
happening , baby!
As a kid growing up in 1970s California I had a vague idea that women needed to be liberated from something, and I was pretty sure that being a “ male chauvinist pig ” was a bad thing. But being an adolescent comic book fan, I was mostly interested in women as sex objects. Throughout the late seventies and early eighties, Marvel Comics would appeal to my base yearnings with books like
Red Sonja ,
Spider-Woman ,
She-Hulk , and
Dazzler , but it was the first and the least provocative of the books introduced in that era that would best hold my attention —
Ms. Marvel !
now you see her …
______________________________________________________________________________________
You Might Also Like:   Ms. Marvel Gallery
______________________________________________________________________________________
When
Ms. Marvel
was introduced in late 1976, Marvel Comics was happy to co-opt the popular entertainment brand of feminism to promote the book. The mast-head told us that “THIS FEMALE FIGHTS BACK” (as opposed to the kind that doesn’t, I suppose), and the editorial filling in for the first issue’s letter column was an apologia by scripter
Gerry Conway , who solemnly admitted that he was “… not totally liberated, (but) … know(s) enough to be aware that a problem exists, and to understand that we’re
all
susceptible to chauvinism at times,” before awkwardly explaining that
Ms. Marvel
wasn’t written by a woman because, “… at the moment there are no thoroughly trained and qualified women writers working in the super hero comics field.”
Because, as we all know, being a writer for Marvel comics required
thorough training , like being a brain surgeon or an astronaut.
Which is to unjustly single-out Conway, because this sort of arm’s-length acknowledgement was kind of de rigueur for any sensitive issue at the time, and by addressing feminism as an issue at all, Marvel was actually being progressive.
Ms. Marvel wasn’t the only wonderful woman superhero of her time
I’ve no doubt Marvel hoped to court female readers with this title, and to close the gap with their “Distinguished Competition,” which had long outdistanced Marvel in the female superhero department, thanks to characters like
Supergirl
and
Batgirl , to say nothing of
Wonder Woman , who was
enjoying television success
at the time. But I’m even more certain Marvel hoped to get male readers onto this book, as all the female comics readers in the world (whatever their mythical numbers may have been) could not have been enough to sustain a Marvel book in the 1970s. The old salts in the bullpen may have had wonder stories to tell about the
golden age of romance comics , but more relevant must have been the 18 million households that were watching
Charlie’s Angels
in the United States in 1977. The feminist movement had won women the right to go bra-less on network TV, and the merest hint of Farrah Fawcett’s nipple
threatened to topple the Republic ! This “women’s lib” stuff might make the book relevant, but
jiggle TV
was hot and in
Ms. Marvel
the
House of Ideas
had a property that could ride both waves.
With her blonde Kate Jackson swoopy-do and bare mid drift (that sometimes revealed a navel, take that,
Barbara Eden !)
Ms. Marvel
might have been a pin-up heroine, but the stories never trended in that direction. By issue #3, Chris Claremont was aboard, bringing with him the imprimatur of writing strong female characters on
Uncanny X-Men , and under his watch the book would never stoop to the wet t-shirt and butt shot antics of cheesecake books of later decades (and I say that with admiration,
having scripted a dozen or so issue of
Ex-Mutants , myself). Come issue #9,
Ms. Marvel’s
costume lost it’s bare front-and-back panels (largely to simplify coloring the character), and, more importantly, the no-nonsense alter ego of
Ms. Marvel , Carol Danvers, had begun to assert herself.
… and now you see less of her
In refusing to write about
Ms. Marvel
as a “feminist hero,” Chris Claremont kinda-sorta made her … a genuine feminist hero. Other characters react to Ms. Marvel’s femininity, of course, but Ms. Marvel herself resists the temptation to strike a pose, put her fists on her hips, and remind everyone that she’s a woman (a rare thing in an otherwise on-the-nose era of comic book writing). And the book spends plenty of pages on “secret identity” stuff, too. Beneath her mask,
Ms. Marvel
is Carol Danvers, an honest-to-gosh 1970s female role model — single, a successful professional, unattached (and with a hint of doomed romance in her past), educated, and starting a second career as a magazine editor after having previously been a security chief for NASA.
It is this character of Carol Danvers that makes
Ms. Marvel
a diamond in the rough.
Danvers had a hot temper (easily trading barbs with her editor,
Spider-Man
nemesis J. Jonah Jameson) …
… but she also used her head in battle, employing fuzzy science to defeat more powerful foes with frankly ridiculous traps that she cobbled together on the spur-of-the-moment …
… but that schtick did help to separate her from the average Marvel meathead, reinforcing
Ms. Marvel’s
brainpower (and Claremont wasn’t above calling for a montage when he wanted to drive that particular point home) …
… and I suppose it is a cheap way to show
Ms. Marvel’s
“feminine side,” but she was also unique in seeming more concerned with the collateral damage of her super-powered antics than the male heroes of her day.
When I picked up this book in 1977 I might have had some vague sense of making a feminist statement, but mostly I was looking for a good new superhero book, and
Ms. Marvel
delivered.
Sort of.
With powers and costume based on a
then-more-familiar
Captain Marvel , the book seemed to suffer an identity crisis from the get-go, with the creative team rummaging through the storybook toolbox to give the character her own unique spin (she’s amnesic! she has precognition! she has phantom memories! she curses like
Captain Marvel!
she crosses over with
Spider-Man!
she doesn’t need Spidey anymore, now she has her own supporting cast!). When Chris Claremont signs on in issue #3 things start to settle in, but the book would still suffer for pitting
Ms. Marvel
against second-rate villains like
Tiger Shark . The closest thing
Ms. Marvel
gets to an A-List villain is
M.O.D.O.K. , but that confrontation was sullied by having Carol sexually threatened by the villain, in a slimy dream sequence stimulated by
M.O.D.O.K.’s
mind-ripper beam.
If this is
M.O.D.O.K.’s
game, you have to wonder why he didn’t mindscrew
Captain America
or
Iron Man
when he had the chance. I suppose it is
reasonable
that
Ms. Marvel’s
gender makes her more vulnerable to the jerks she battles, but I contend it isn’t
necessary . Fortunately, Carol puts paid to
M.O.D.O.K.
a few issues later and this run of the book doesn’t tread back into this kind of territory.
The truth is this is a forgettable run of superhero stories. The art is never better than serviceable, and when
Ms. Marvel
spent her twentieth issue fighting dumbass dinosaur men, I guess I’d had enough (because that’s where my collection runs out).
All these years later, I wish I’d stayed with the book, even though it only had another three issues to run. Not because I expect the stories got any better, but because in my recent read-through, I found I’d grown quite attached to Carol Danvers, the woman behind the
Ms. Marvel
mask. It meant nothing to me when I was a teen, but as a creepy grown-up reading comics in my garage, I found Carol Danvers refreshingly mature, well-realized, intelligent, and strong in ways that few female comic characters can claim. Against all odds, and maybe despite themselves, Marvel really did create a strong, iconic female superhero in
Ms. Marvel
(but then they cancelled the book, and passed the character around between different series,
then raped her , then
un-raped her , and
turned her into a crypto-fascist , and
gave her a second series ) … but in truth I don’t want to know about any of the other brand withdrawals Marvel made with this character in
the past three decades .
I’d kind of like my last memory of
Ms. Marvel
to be about a woman who was secure enough to take girlish joy in her own costume change.
Ms. Marvel
was at best an average comic, but
Ms. Marvel
herself was a good and potentially a great character. I’m sorry it took me thirty-five years to realize it, but it did make for a pleasant surprise when I unearthed this run from
the Accumulation . Still,
Ms. Marvel
deserved better. She deserved better villains and better art. She deserved better loyalty from me, instead of abandoning the book before it was over. She deserved to get off to a faster start rather than floundering around for a year while her readership went away. She deserved better of Marvel’s editors after her book was cancelled.
And she certainly deserved better than that “This Female Fights Back!” motto on her very first issue! Sheesh!
Title:
Ms. Marvel
Published By: Marvel Comics, 1977-1979
Issues Rescued From The Longbox Graveyard: #1-20, January 1977-October 1978
Your Bra-Burning Soundtrack For This Series:
I Am Woman — Helen Reddy
LBG Letter Grade For This Run : C
NEXT WEDNESDAY:
#26 Longbox Soapbox (Special Six Month Anniversary Issue!)
Rate this: Share this: Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window) Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window) Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window) Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window) Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window) Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window) Like this: Like
Loading...
Related
About Paul O'Connor
Revelations and retro-reviews from a world where it is always 1978, published once a month or so at www.longboxgraveyard.com!
View all posts by Paul O'Connor
»
Posted on December 7, 2011, in
Reviews
and tagged
Carol Danvers ,
Chris Claremont ,
Cosmic ,
feminism ,
Gerry Conway ,
Marvel Comics ,
MODOK ,
Ms. Marvel . Bookmark the
permalink .								 15 Comments .
← Capes & Cowls
Longbox Soapbox (Fall 2011) →
Leave a comment
Trackbacks 5
Comments 10
Mars Will Send No More
|
December 8, 2011 at 8:29 am
Agreed: cool character, average schlock execution.
Not even John Buscema layouts can sustain the stories.
We do like how Warren Ellis and Steve McNiven treated the Carol Danvers character in Ultimate Secret, and Bendis did a serviceable job with her in the first New Avengers series.
But overall, she’s one of those characters who never got a fair shake.
Perhaps she’s simply too derivative to have a real spark.
Speaking of liberated females, thanks for the tip on Omaha the Cat Dancer.
We read all 7 collected volumes and our brain has been thoroughly warped as a result.
Cool series with a lot of high points, even if the soap-opera style wears thin after a while.
Sometimes you ask yourself, “If this book was just about regular people and not erotic cat people, would I be reading it
– or would it be just another soap?”
Still, it’s a very enjoyable indie book, and we hope some day there’s a Omaha/Dreadstar cross-over!
Like Like
Reply
Paul O'Connor
|
December 8, 2011 at 3:21 pm
Thanks for reading, Mars.
Plus, I cannot express how pleased it makes me that we live in a world where thoughts like
“If this book was just about regular people and not erotic cat people, would I be reading it – or would it be just another soap?”
occur to us.
That made my day, thanks!
Like Like
Reply
Horace Austin
|
December 8, 2011 at 3:09 pm
I still hate what was done to Ms. Marvel in Avengers #200.
Like Like
Reply
Paul O'Connor
|
December 8, 2011 at 3:24 pm
It is easy to break something, not so easy to un-break it. Female comic characters seem especially prey to unwise, troubling, long-lasting, and invasive changes. It happens often enough that there’s a website devoted to it:
http://www.unheardtaunts.com/wir/
While I am disappointed by many of the more recent unwise things done to my comics heroes in the name of circulation I suppose it is worth remembering this isn’t a new trick.
Like Like
Reply
Horace Austin
|
December 29, 2011 at 11:38 am
I just discovered that Jim Shooter is on Twitter and that he has a blog. He recently re-read Avengers #200 and blogged the following: “…in those days, in any case, the buck stopped at my desk. I take full responsibility. I screwed up. My judgment failed, or maybe I wasn’t paying enough attention. Sorry. Avengers #200 is a travesty.”
There you have it.
Like Like
Reply
Paul O'Connor
|
December 29, 2011 at 2:17 pm
Good on Mr. Shooter for standing up and taking that one.
I read his blog every now and then, and there’s good insight there. Also a bit of cranky-old-man “You kids get off my lawn!” and lashing out based on his current creative irrelevance but what the hell, he’s earned it, and he’s far from the only cranky old man on this block (he said, reviewing his work thus far at Longbox Graveyard).
Like Like
Reply
Martin Gray
|
July 19, 2012 at 5:26 am
Great stuff, Paul. Spotty UK distribution meant I missed MODOK and his mindripper, which is just as well as I now feel quite ill.
I’d rank MODOK and Tiger Shark as about the same – both are pretty much solo hero threats.
That front cover line on #1 bringing in Medusa is wonderfully random.
And I’d say the final few issues with the new costume were better, there was a new energy to the book. Or perhaps that’s me having phantom memories …
Like Like
Reply
Paul O'Connor
|
July 19, 2012 at 2:09 pm
I’ve picked up the last issues of this run since publishing this article but have yet to read them.
Maybe I’ll try them tonight in lieu of the new Captain (nee Ms.) Marvel that streeted this week. Against all odds I was in a comic shop on Tuesday and saw Carol on the cover of Captain Marvel #1, and thought, what the hell — impulse buy! I haven’t bought a single issue of a new Marvel book in something like fifteen years.
And I still haven’t, because they had to honor the street date of Wednesday and couldn’t sell on a Tuesday! Works for them but not for me and they’ll never know the cosmic circumstances that had to line up before my wallet even started to crack open. I won’t be back in a comic shop for weeks and I’m sure the madness will have passed by then … maybe I’ll get a digital copy. Or maybe I will wait for the trade. Or most likely of all I won’t buy at all and will spend some time with the old books instead.
Like Like
Reply
flyingtigercomics
|
July 10, 2014 at 7:54 am
compared to the PC bullshit of the new Ms Marvel- the original run was Shakespeare.
Like Like
Reply
Paul O'Connor
|
July 10, 2014 at 4:19 pm
I haven’t read the new Ms. Marvel (I don’t buy individual issues any more), but I’m looking forward to when the series rotates onto my digital subscription, or comes out in collected form. I’m an Old White Man but not every story needs to be for me, and I think it wise that Marvel is experimenting with stories for more diverse audiences. I like what little I’ve seen of the character (and I say this as a Carol Danvers fan!)
I doubt I will review the new Ms. Marvel — contemporary books aren’t really my thing here at Longbox Graveyard — but she is on my radar and I’m rooting for her.
Like Like
Reply
Pingback:
#27 Silver Age Gold « Longbox Graveyard
Pingback:
#50 Fantastic Fiftieth Issue! « Longbox Graveyard
Pingback:
#67 Guide To Comic Books On Pinterest « Longbox Graveyard
Pingback:
#90 Red Sonja | Longbox Graveyard
Pingback:
Ms. Marvel Gallery | Longbox Graveyard
Leave a Reply
Cancel reply
Enter your comment here...
Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:
Email
(Address never made public)
Name
Website
You are commenting using your WordPress.com account.
(  Log Out  /  Change  )
You are commenting using your Twitter account.
(  Log Out  /  Change  )
You are commenting using your Facebook account.
(  Log Out  /  Change  )
You are commenting using your Google+ account.
(  Log Out  /  Change  )
Cancel
Connecting to %s
Notify me of new comments via email.
Notify me of new posts via email.
Top Posts (Click Below!)
Shocking Email Subscription!
Enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Join 11,805 other followers
Stunning RSS Subscription! RSS - Posts RSS - Comments
Follow Longbox Graveyard on WordPress.com
Follow @lboxgraveyard
Bulk Comic Book SALE!
Comic Book Top Ten Lists!
Avengers!
Batman!
Captain America!
Conan!
Cosmics!
Digital!
Ditko!
Doctor Strange!
F.O.O.M.!
Kung Fu!
Man Cave!
Monsters!
Nick Fury!
Spider-Man!
Thor!
Longbox Graveyard Social Media Guides!
Longbox Graveyard Tweets On Twitter!
I always liked The Falcon … but he may have the worst origin in comics:
wp.me/p1yye7-2r9
2 hours ago
@ theantifascist
It Is A Sign. Royals win the Series, (and something about buttslamming, too) 				 2 hours ago
@ theantifascist
Dude ... you were porn aggregated. Scroll down below "Buttslammers 4" Only on Twitter, man!
paper.li/tanyatate?edit…
2 hours ago
@ word_in_edgewis
Tucson is within striking distance of Tombstone AND the airplane graveyard. Grim portents abound. 				 2 hours ago
Longbox Graveyard on Flickr!
More Photos
Longbox Graveyard On Instagram!
Longbox Graveyard Social Media
Facebook
Flickr
Foursquare
Google+
Instagram
Pinterest
Tumblr
Twitter
YouTube
A New Post Once A Month Or So!
December 2011
M
T
W
T
F
S
S
« Nov
Jan »
1 2 3 4
5 6 7 8 9 10 11
12 13 14 15 16 17 18
19 20 21 22 23 24 25
26 27 28 29 30 31
Recent Posts
Countdown To Tucson!
Perfect Page: Amazing Spider-Man
Meet Longbox Graveyard At Tucson Comic-Con!
Swamp Thing: Dark Genesis
Master of Kung Fu Returns!
Categories!
Announcements
Best Of Longbox Graveyard
Business
By Any Other Name
Collecting
Conspectus
Cover Gallery
Editorial
Flipagram Friday!
FOOM Friday!
For Sale Friday!
Interviews
IT COMES IN THE MAIL
Lists!
Man Cave Monday
March Madness!
My Stuff
Other Media
Panel Gallery
Perfect Page
Pinterest Galleries
Pinups
Plugs
Podcasts
Quotes
Reviews
Super Tuesday
Super-Blog Team-Up
Superhero Greenlight
The Dollar Box
Thrillbent
Uncategorized
Magic Words! Alan Moore
Amazing Spider-Man
Avengers
Barry Windsor-Smith
Batman
Bernie Wrightson
Captain America
Captain Marvel
Chris Claremont
Chris Ulm
Comic Books
Comics
Conan
Cosmic
Daredevil
DC Comics
digital comics
Doctor Strange
Dollar Box
Doug Moench
eBay
F.O.O.M.
Fantastic Four
FOOM
Frank Miller
Gene Colan
Guardians of the Galaxy
Halloween
Halloween Month
Holiday
Hulk
Instagram
Iron Man
ITunes
Jack Kirby
Jim Starlin
John Buscema
Judge Dredd
Longbox Graveyard
Longbox Graveyard Podcast
Malibu Comics
March Madness Super-Animal Showdown
Marvel Comics
Master of Kung Fu
Netflix
Nick Fury
Pinterest
podcast
Red Skull
Rick Jones
Robert E. Howard
Roy Thomas
S.H.I.E.L.D.
Silver Surfer
Spider-Man
Stan Lee
Star Lord
StashMyComics.com
Steve Ditko
Steve Gerber
Sub Mariner
Super-Blog Team-Up
Superman
Swamp Thing
Thanos
Thing
Thor
Tomb of Dracula
Top 10
Twitter
Ultraverse
Walt Simonson
Warlock
Winter Soldier
X-Men Search The Longbox Graveyard!
Search for:
Friends Of The Longbox!
Back Issue Heroes
Comic Swap Shop
Comicosity
Evoking Design
Foogos
Funny Book Fanatic
Mars Will Send No More
Marvel Comics of the 1980s
Sequart
Stash My Comics
Thrillbent
We Talk Comics
Super-Blog Team-Up!
Between The Pages
Bronze Age Babies
Chasing Amazing
Fantastiverse
Firestorm Fan
Flodo's Page
In My Not So Humble Opinion
Mystery V-Log
Retroist
Silver Age Sensations
Superior Spider-Talk
The Daily Rios
The Idol-Head of Diabolu
The Legion of Super-Bloggers
The Marvel Super Heroes Podcast
The Middle Spaces
The Superhero Satellite
The Unspoken Decade
Ultraverse Network
Buy Cool Stuff!
Learn more about the Longbox Graveyard Amazon store!
Longbox Graveyard eBay Auctions!
My Comicshop.com
Meta
Register
Log in
Entries
RSS
Comments
RSS
WordPress.com
Longbox Graveyard Authors!
dangvozden Top 10 Loves of Peter Parker (Part 2) Top 10 Loves of Peter Parker (Part 1)
Paul O'Connor Countdown To Tucson! Perfect Page: Amazing Spider-Man Meet Longbox Graveyard At Tucson Comic-Con!
markginocchio Who’s the Boss? Kingpin as Daredevil’s Arch-Nemesis Ben Urich: A Role Model in a Sea of Superheroes Spider-Man’s Bottom 10 Bronze Age Bums
Dean Compton Gamma Goes Grey: The Rampaging Hulk! All This And World War Too! Punishment Is Black And White
resaurus Poet Anderson The Dream Walker
ryanmcswain The Influence of Sequential Art on My Novel or: How I Shoved Comics Into A Book Without Pictures Matt Murdoch Says:
All original material on this site is © Paul O’Connor (or original guest blog author) and Longbox Graveyard, 2011-2015. Unauthorized use and/or duplication of this material without express and written permission from this blog’s author and owner is strictly prohibited. Excerpts and links may be used, provided that full and clear credit is given to Paul O’Connor (or guest blog author) and Longbox Graveyard with appropriate and specific direction to the original content.
All images included on this site are for purposes of review and research and are not intended to interfere with the copyright holder’s right to use such material for their own commercial goals. We love comics, and so do you. Buy them. It’s the right thing to do.
Tip Your Editor!
Create a free website or blog at WordPress.com .
The Mystique Theme .
Follow
Follow “Longbox Graveyard”
Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.
Join 11,805 other followers
Build a website with WordPress.com
Send to Email Address
Your Name
Your Email Address
Cancel
Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
%d
bloggers like this: