The Most Well Connected Poorman in America: 10/1/09 - 11/1/09
The art of Kevin Blythe Sampson
THE ART OF KEVIN BLYTHE SAMPSON
11/14/09
Who is Toukie Smith and why are people talking about her?
Ebony ,
May, 1990
by
Laura B. Randolph
1
2
3
Next
Who Is TOUKIE SMITH
TOUKIE's gone Hollywood.
The former New York supermodel breezes into Chianti's a chic L.A. eatery, blowing kisses at the waiters and electrifying the air. With her leopard print Patrick Kelly coat ("Honey, I have the last dress Patrick ever made"), black miniskirt ("I didn't lose 45 pounds for nothing, baby"), and mass of honey-blonde hair, there's no mistaking it: the newest start of NBC's hit comedy 227 has arrived. And from the moment her thigh-high suede boots hit the floor, even the seen-it-all L.A. dinner crowd is more than a little awed by her presence.
Toukie scarcely notices the stares.
More Articles of Interest
Toukie Smith and actor Robert De Niro become parents of twins
Actor Robert DeNiro To Divorce Wife Of Two Years, Grace Hightower
Drena De Niro - Brief Article - Interview
STAR DE NIRO A DAD AGAIN
Robert De Niro
"Baby, I come from a family of women who, when they went to cabarets, their dresses matched their hair and their hair matched their shoes," she exclaims. "Look, I've had my hair black, pink, orange, white and blue. I grew up around women with style, honey, and they taught it to me."
While Toukie may be a newcomer to Hollywood, she's hardly a stranger to the spotlight. Long before she hit prime-time, she was a limelight veteran, primarily because of her close relationships with the rich and famous.
As the sister of the late, internationally acclaimed designer Willi Smith and the longtime companion of media-shy superstar Robert De Niro, Toukie's private life has been a constant, almost obsessive, source of interest to the media--and a source of great irritation to Toukie. "Baby, when people start asking me about my private life, I have an answer," she says snapping her fingers and drawing a Z in the air. "I say, 'Baby, do you know what private means? Do you know how to spell it: P-R-I-V-A-T-E, and that's with a capital P.'"
Born Doris Smith in Philadelphia 35 years ago, Toukie spent her 20s show-casing style with a capital S. Along with her better-known brother, Toukie used her show-stopping flair to build a big-time, big-bucks modeling career. By the end of the '70s, she was one of the most talked-about models in the industry. So much so that, in 1978 Bloomingdales named her its favorite model over a throng of blue-eyed, blond-haired competitors.
Toukie Smith
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to:
navigation ,
search
Toukie A. Smith
(born
Doris Smith
April 25 ,
1955
in
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania ), is an
African American
actress
and
model . Smith is the sister of late fashion designer
Willi Smith
and former long-term partner of actor
Robert De Niro , with whom she has two sons. She is best known for her role as "Eva Rawley" for one season on the
NBC
sitcom
227 . Her other credits include
Talkin' Dirty After Dark ,
Joe's Apartment , and
The Preacher's Wife .
Smith started her career in the 1970s as a model, working for such brands as
Chanel ,
Versace ,
Geoffrey Beene ,
Issey Miyake ,
Norma Kamali ,
Thierry Mugler , and
Patrick Kelly . She also had a successful print career, including a photo campaign for
Yves St. Laurent
as well as appearances in
Vogue ,
ELLE ,
Ebony ,
Cosmopolitan ,
Redbook , and
Seventeen
magazines.
In 1978, Smith was named
Bloomingdale's
Model of the Year and became the first African-American model to have a mannequin designed in her likeness.
References
Technorati Tags:
toukie smith , willi smith , bob de niro
Links to this post
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share to Pinterest
Going 'All the Way' with Burgers at The Hot Grill in Clifton, New Jersey
Going 'All the Way' with Burgers at The Hot Grill in Clifton, New Jersey
Posted by
Nick Solares , September 29, 2009 at 10:30 AM
[ Photographs: Nick Solares ]
The Hot Grill
669 Lexington Ave, Clifton, NJ 07011;
map ); 973-772-6000;
hotgrill.org
Cooking Method:
Griddled
Short Order:
Hamburgers are made fresh everyday, but the patties are wafer thin and need to be doubled up, or better yet served "all the way."
Want Fries with That?
Sure; get them "all the way" as well for a goopy treat.
Price:
Hamburger, $2.05; cheeseburger, $2.30
The Hot Grill
dates back to 1961 and is best known as a purveyor of Texas Weiners, a unique method of dog preparation that has nothing to do with with Texas, but rather has its roots in Paterson, New Jersey. As Serious Eats' Hawk Krall
recently illustrated , a Texas Weiner is a deep fried hot dog served with Greek sauce—"a smooth, slow cooked meat sauce spiced with cayenne, cinnamon, allspice, cloves and cumin," while getting it "all the way" adds on mustard and diced onions. The Texas Weiner is seemingly the raison d'être of The Hot Grill, as a large hot dog dominates the restaurant's sign and the tag line listed underneath claims that they serve the "World's Tastiest Weiners." But they also serve hamburgers that are fresh made in-house daily. Can they stand up to the legendary dogs?
Lately, I have been eating my hamburgers plain without condiments or cheese—at least, if that is offered on the menu. I won't deconstruct a burger that is only offered in a specific way, but, as a reviewer, I want to see what is going on between the buns. This method of consumption ruthlessly reveals substandard ingredients, but at the same time, when everything is right, the simplicity can breed perfection.
Continue reading »
8 Comments
Favorite this!   (3)
Tagged:
AHT reviews ,
New Jersey ,
reviews ,
The Hot Grill ,
tiny hamburgers
Links to this post
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share to Pinterest
Father & Son Chili Dogs and Burgers: An Undiscovered Gem in New Jersey?
Posted by
Nick Solares , November 10, 2009 at 10:30 AM
[ Photographs: Nick Solares ]
Father & Son Chili Dogs and Burgers
902 W Saint Georges Avenue, Linden, NJ 07036;
map ); 908-486-9596
Cooking Method:
Grilled
Short Order:
While the famous Texas Weiners are the principle draw here the burger should not be over looked. Fresh grilled beef evocative of backyard grill outs, Try it with the chili sauce for an extra kick.
Price:
Hamburger, $3; Cheeseburger, $3.40; Chili Cheeseburger
When Bobby Flay was interviewed at
Serious Eats: New York
last year, he was asked if he knew of any restaurants that qualified as "undiscovered gems." He retorted, "Nothing is undiscovered, the Internet has ruined that."
I can sympathize with the notion. It certainly seems that with the narrow casting afforded by the internet, sites can leave no stone unturned in the exploration of the subject matter that they cover. At least that's what we try to do here at AHT. But if I have learned one thing about hamburgers it is that they can be found in unexpected places, and maybe discovering gems is an incidental pursuit.
Speaking of gems, I was recently on my way to check out the state of
White Diamond
in Linden, New Jersey, when I noticed a sign on the side of a building on West St. Georges Street promising chili dogs and burgers. I had driven up and down this particular stretch of road in pursuit of sliders many times, but somehow
Father & Son Chili Dogs and Burgers
had thus far eluded me. It turns out that the place dates back to 1941 (although at a different location) and remains family-owned. In fact the business passed from father to son and then to granddaughter. I guess "Father, Son & Granddaughter" doesn't have quite the same ring as "Father & Son."
Continue reading »
9 Comments
Favorite this!   (1)
Tagged:
AHT reviews ,
Father and Son Chili Dogs and Burgers ,
Linden ,
New Jersey ,
reviews
Links to this post
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share to Pinterest
How low will he go? Obama gives Japan's Emperor Akihito a wow bow (
Politics and commentary, coast to coast, from the Los Angeles Times
Andrew Malcolm
« Previous Post
|
Top of the Ticket Home
|
Next Post »
How low will he go? Obama gives Japan's Emperor Akihito a wow bow (Updated with video, pic)
November 14, 2009 |  3:38 am
(UPDATES:
12:22 p.m. A brief news video has been added below, showing the greeting in this photograph. Contrary to some claims, the video shows no reciprocal bow by the emperor, who traditionally bows to no one. And we've added a file photo from 2007 of Vice President Dick Cheney greeting the Japanese Emperor at the same residence in a different fashion.)
How low will the new American president go for the world's royalty?
This photo will get Democrat President
Obama
a lot of approving nods in Japan this weekend, especially among the older generation of Japanese who still
ts downtown castle. Very low bows like this are a sign of great respect and deference to a superior.
To some in the United States, however, an upright handshake might have looked better. (See Cheney-Akihito photo, right).
Remember
Michelle Obama
casually patting Britain's
Queen Elizabeth
on the back during their Buckingham Palace visit? America's royalty tends to make movies and get bad reviews and lots of money as a sign of respect.
Obama could receive some frowns back home as he did for his not-quite-this-low-or-maybe-about-the-same-bow to the Saudi king not so long ago. (See photo here)
How times change under Democratic presidents.
Back in 1994 when President
Bill Clinton
appeared to maybe perhaps almost start to bow to Akihito at a White House encounter, U.S. officials rushed to deny it was any such a thing. And the
N.Y. Times chronicled the comedic drama here.
Akihito, who turns 76 next month, is the eldest son and fifth child of Emperor
Showa , the name given to an emperor and his reign after his death.
Emperor Showa is better known abroad by the life name of
Hirohito.
He became emperor in 1925 and died in 1989, the longest historically-known rule of the nation's 125 emperors.
Hirohito presided over his nation's growth from an undeveloped agrarian economy into the expansionist military power and ally of Nazi Germany of the 1930's.
And, later, Japan became a global economic giant. Hirohito, along with Prime Minister
Hideki Tojo,
who authorized the 1941 attack on Pearl Harbor, were much reviled abroad during World War II.
Historically, deba te has simmered over how much of a political puppet Hirohito was to the country's military before and during the war.
Even after Democratic President
Harry Truman
ordered the two atom bombs dropped on Hiroshima and Nagasaki in the summer of 1945, there were strong forces within Japan that wanted to continue to fight the Americans in the spirit of kamikaze suicide pilots.
But Akihito's father went on national radio, the first time his subjects had ever heard Hirohito's voice, and without using the inflammatory word "surrender," pronounced that the country must "accept the unacceptable." It did.
As the conquering Allied general and then presiding officer of the U.S. occupation, Gen.
Douglas MacArthur,
decided to allow Japan to keep its emperor as a ceremonial unifying institution within a nascent democracy.
Tojo, on the other hand, was hanged.
MacArthur treated Emperor Hirohito respectfully but, as his body language in this black and white postwar photo demonstrates, was not particularly deferential.
(But then MacArthur was not known as a particularly deferential person, as Truman discovered just before firing him later. But that's another war.)
Akihito was born during Japan's conquering of China and was evacuated during the devastating American fire-bombing of Tokyo, which was built largely of wood in those days.
The future emperor learned English during the U.S. occupation, but, inexplicably, his father ordered that his oldest boy not receive an Army commission as previous imperial heirs always had.
Akihito assumed the throne on Jan. 7, 1989. Within weeks he began a series of formal expressions of remorse to Asian countries for Japan's actions during his ....
...father's reign. In 2003, he underwent surgery for prostate cancer.
In 1959, Akihito married
Michiko Shoda , the first commoner allowed to enter the Japanese royal family. That was two years before the birth of Akihito's future presidential guest, Barack Obama.
Joe Biden
was already 17 by then. But he wasn't a senator.
Links to this post
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share to Pinterest
Broaching Birth Control With Afghan Mullahs
November 15, 2009
By
SABRINA TAVERNISE
MAZAR-I-SHARIF,
Afghanistan
— The mullahs stared silently at the screen. They shifted in their chairs and fiddled with pencils. Koranic verses flashed above them, but the topic was something that made everybody a little uncomfortable.
“A baby should be breast-fed for at least 21 months,” said the instructor. “Milk is safe inside the breast. Dust and germs can’t get inside.”
It was a seminar on birth control, a likely subject for a nation whose fertility rate of 6 children per woman is the highest in Asia. But the audience was unusual: 10 Islamic religious leaders from this city and its suburbs, wearing turbans and sipping tea.
The message was simple. Babies are good, but not too many; wait two years before having another to give your wife’s body a chance to recover. Nothing in Islam expressly
forbids birth control . But it does emphasize procreation, and mullahs, like leaders of other faiths, consider children to be blessings from God, and are usually the most determined opponents of having fewer of them.
It is an attitude that Afghanistan can no longer afford, in the view of the employees of the nonprofit group that runs the seminars,
Marie Stopes International . The high birthrate places a heavy weight on a society where average per capita earnings are about $700 a year. It is also a risk to mothers. Afghanistan is second only to Sierra Leone in maternal mortality rates, which run as high as 8 percent in some areas.
“If we work hard on this issue, we can rescue our country from misery,” said Rahmatuddin Bashardost, a doctor who helps lead the mullahs’ classes.
The mullahs were reluctant participants. Truth be told, they were paid to show up. But surprisingly, they seemed to emerge from the session invigorated.
“This was a useful and friendly discussion,” said Mullah Amruddin, a tall man in a dramatic turban. “If you have too many children and you can’t control them, that’s bad for Islam.”
Maybe they were so receptive because a mullah led the class, using their own language — scripture from the Koran. Or maybe it was because some attitudes are starting to change.
Syed Wasem Massoom, 29, a mullah and one of the trainers, said urban Afghans were looking for ways to have fewer children. Afghanistan was changing, he said, especially its cities, and mullahs had better be thinking about these issues.
“People kept asking us how to have less children,” he said.
Afghan women who work for Marie Stopes, distributing birth control door to door in the country’s capital, have also noticed an interest. An overwhelming majority of people are still skeptical of their motives. (Foreign spies! Christian missionaries who want to reduce the Muslim population!) But a growing number are open to the idea.
“Sometimes they are kind of surprised that this kind of thing exists,” said one of the workers, a woman named Aziza.
In 2009 alone, the sale of birth control pills nearly doubled to 11,000 in September from 6,000 packages in January, according to Marie Stopes figures.
One woman was so happy to have birth control pills that she hugged and kissed Aziza, ripped open a package and swallowed a pill with a gulp of water.
“She said she didn’t want to wait until evening,” Aziza said, laughing at the memory. The total number of the woman’s children: 17. Three dead, 14 living.
The most difficult families are ones headed by mullahs. Aziza and her colleagues tread carefully in those households. Mahmouda, another worker, recalled walking into one such house and finding the mullah’s wife washing clothes and trying to calm a baby. She signaled silently that Mahmouda should talk in a low voice.
“ ‘If my husband finds out, he’ll punish me,’ ” Mahmouda recalled the woman saying. “ ‘I’m pregnant now. I really need those pills.’ ”
Taking birth control in secret is not unusual, the women said. Even Aziza’s own husband opposes her using it.
“He said, ‘We are Muslims and God gives us babies,’ ” she said.
She lies to him, but with a clear conscience. “I talked to him in a good way,” she explained. “I told him about the benefits, but he didn’t listen to me.”
Those who oppose it sometimes get violent. Aziza recalled people running her out of a neighborhood in Kabul after she introduced birth control there. They accused her of being on the payroll of the Americans, taking dollars to weaken the country.
“ ‘They want to capture Afghanistan,’ ” she recalled that they said. “ ‘If the Muslims are many, they won’t be able to.’ ”
In Mazar-i-Sharif, it is one mullah at a time.
Mr. Massoom, the mullah trainer, put it most directly. “This is an Islamic country,” he said. “If the clerics support this, no one will oppose it.”
Sangar Rahimi contributed reporting from Mazar-i-Sharif and Kabul.
Links to this post
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share to Pinterest
11/11/09
Republicans Edge Ahead of Democrats in 2010 Vote
November 11, 2009
Registered voters prefer Republicans for the House, 48% to 44%
by Jeffrey M. Jones
PRINCETON, NJ -- Republicans have moved ahead of Democrats by 48% to 44% among registered voters in the latest update on Gallup's generic congressional ballot for the 2010 House elections, after trailing by six points in July and two points last month.
"Over the course of the year, independents' preference for the Republican candidate in their districts has grown."
The Nov. 5-8 update comes just after Republican victories in the New Jersey and Virginia gubernatorial elections, which saw Republicans replace Democrats as governors of those states.
As was the case in last Tuesday's gubernatorial elections, independents are helping the Republicans' cause. In the latest poll, independent registered voters favor the Republican candidate by 52% to 30%. Both parties maintain similar loyalty from their bases, with 91% of Democratic registered voters preferring the Democratic candidate and 93% of Republican voters preferring the Republican.
Over the course of the year, independents' preference for the Republican candidate in their districts has grown, from a 1-point advantage in July to the current 22-point gap.
The overall results would predict a likely strong Republican showing if the House elections were held today. Though the registered-voter results reported here speak to the preferences of all eligible voters,
voter turnout is crucial in determining the final outcome of midterm elections . Gallup will not begin to model likely turnout until much closer to the 2010 elections, but given that Republicans usually have a turnout advantage, if normal turnout patterns prevail in the coming election, prospects for a good Democratic showing appear slim. Of course, the elections are still nearly 12 months away and conditions could shift back in the Democrats' favor over this time.
Since Gallup regularly began using the generic ballot to measure registered voters' preferences for the House of Representatives in 1950, it has been rare for Republicans to have an advantage over Democrats. This is likely because more Americans usually identify as Democrats than as Republicans, but Republicans can offset this typical Democratic advantage in preferences with greater turnout on Election Day. Most of the prior Republican registered-voter leads on the generic ballot in Gallup polling occurred in 1994 and 2002, two strong years for the GOP.
Bottom Line
Roughly a year before the 2010 midterm elections, Republicans seem well-positioned to win back some of their congressional losses in 2006 and 2008. Independents are increasingly coming to prefer the Republican candidate for Congress, and now favor the GOP by 22 points. Political conditions could still shift between now and Election Day
to create a more favorable environment for Democratic candidates , but a Republican lead on the generic ballot among registered voters has been a sign of a strong Republican showing at the polls in the coming election.
Sign up for Gallup
e-mail alerts
or
RSS feeds
Get Gallup news on
Facebook
and
Twitter
Survey Methods
Results are based on telephone interviews with 894 registered voters, aged 18 and older, conducted Nov. 5-8, 2009. For results based on the total sample of national adults, one can say with 95% confidence that the maximum margin of sampling error is ±4 percentage points.
Interviews are conducted with respondents on land-line telephones (for respondents with a land-line telephone) and cellular phones (for respondents who are cell-phone only).
In addition to sampling error, question wording and practical difficulties in conducting surveys can introduce error or bias into the findings of public opinion polls.
Links to this post
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share to Pinterest
Prof busted in Columbia gal 'punch'
Prof busted in Columbia gal 'punch'
By PERRY CHIARAMONTE, BETH STEBNER and JEREMY OLSHAN
Last Updated:
1:17 PM, November 10, 2009
Posted:
2:57 AM, November 10, 2009
A prominent Columbia architecture professor punched a female university employee in the face at a Harlem bar during a heated argument about race relations, cops said yesterday.
Police busted Lionel McIntyre, 59, for assault yesterday after his bruised victim, Camille Davis, filed charges.
McIntyre and Davis, who works as a production manager in the school's theater department, are both regulars at Toast, a popular university bar on Broadway and 125th Street, sources said.
The professor, who is black, had been engaged in a fiery discussion about "white privilege" with Davis, who is white, and another male regular, who is also white, Friday night at 10:30 when fists started flying, patrons said.
McIntyre, who is known as "Mac" at the bar, shoved Davis, and when the other patron and a bar employee tried to break it up, the prof slugged Davis in the face, witnesses said.
"The punch was so loud, the kitchen workers in the back heard it over all the noise," bar back Richie Velez, 28, told The Post. "I was on my way over when he punched Camille and she fell on top of me."
The other patron involved in the dispute said McIntyre then took a swing at him after he yelled, "You don't hit a woman!"
"He knocked the glasses right off my face," said the man, who would only give his first name as "Shannon." "The punch came out of nowhere. Mac was talking to us about white privilege and what I was doing about it -- apparently I wasn't doing enough."
McIntyre had squabbled with Davis several weeks earlier over issues involving race, witnesses said. As soon as the professor threw the punch Friday, server Rob Dalton and another employee tossed him out.
"It was a real sucker punch," Dalton said. "Camille's a great lady, always nice to everybody, and doesn't deserve anything like this."
Davis was spotted wearing sunglasses yesterday to conceal the black eye. Reached at her Columbia office, she declined to comment on the alleged attack.
McIntyre was released without bail at his arraignment last night.
"It was a very unfortunate event," he said afterwards. "I didn't mean for it to explode the way it did."
Additional reporting
by Sarah Makuta
NEW YORK POST is a registered trademark of NYP Holdings, Inc.
nypost.com , nypostonline.com , and newyorkpost.com are trademarks of NYP Holdings, Inc.
Copyright 2009 NYP Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.
Privacy
|
Terms of Us
Links to this post
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share to Pinterest
11/10/09
A Word, Mr. President By BOB HERBERT
Op-Ed Columnist
A Word, Mr. President
By
BOB HERBERT
Published: November 9, 2009
If I were a close adviser of President Obama’s, I would say to him, “Mr. President, you have two urgent and overwhelming tasks in front of you: to put Americans trapped in this terrible employment crisis back to work and to put the brakes on your potentially disastrous plan to escalate the war in Afghanistan.”
Skip to next paragraph
Bob Herbert
Go to Columnist Page »
Related
Times Topics:
Unemployment
|
Afghanistan
Readers' Comments
Readers shared their thoughts on this article.
Read All Comments (237) »
Reforming the chaotic and unfair health care system in the U.S. is an important issue. But in terms of pressing national priorities, the most important are the need to find solutions to a catastrophic employment environment that is devastating American families and to end the folly of an 8-year-old war that is both extremely debilitating and ultimately unwinnable.
We have spent the better part of a year locked in a tedious and unenlightening debate over health care while the jobless rate has steadily surged. It’s now at 10.2 percent. Families struggling with job losses, home foreclosures and personal bankruptcies are falling out of the middle class like fruit through the bottom of a rotten basket. The jobless rate for men 16 years old and over is 11.4 percent. For blacks, it’s a back-breaking 15.7 percent.
We need to readjust our focus. We’re worried about Kabul when Detroit has gone down for the count.
I would tell the president that more and more Americans are questioning his priorities, including millions who went to the mat for him in last year’s election. The biggest issue by far for most Americans is employment. The lack of jobs is fueling the nervousness, anxiety and full-blown anger that are becoming increasingly evident in the public at large.
Last Friday, a huge crowd of fans marched in a ticker-tape parade in downtown Manhattan to celebrate the Yankees’ World Series championship. More than once, as the fans passed through the financial district, the crowd erupted in rhythmic, echoing chants of “Wall Street sucks! Wall Street sucks!”
I would tell the president that the feeling is widespread that his administration went too far with its bailouts of the financial industry, sending not just a badly needed lifeline but also unwarranted windfalls to the miscreants who nearly wrecked the entire economy. The government got very little in return. The perception now is that Wall Street is doing just fine while working people, whose taxes financed the bailouts, are walking the plank to economic oblivion.
I would also tell him that rebuilding the economy in a way that allows working Americans to flourish will require a sustained monumental effort, not just bits and pieces of legislation here and there. But such an effort will never get off the ground, will never have any chance of reaching critical mass and actually succeeding, as long as we insist on feeding young, healthy American men and women and endless American dollars into the relentless meat grinders of Afghanistan and Iraq.
We learned in the 1960s, when Lyndon Johnson’s Great Society was trumped by Vietnam, that nation-building here at home is incompatible with the demands of war. We’ve managed to keep the worst of the carnage — and the staggering costs — of Iraq and Afghanistan well out of the sight of most Americans, so the full extent of the terrible price we are paying is not widely understood.
The ultimate financial costs will be counted in the trillions. If you were to take a walk around one of the many military medical centers, like Landstuhl in Germany or Walter Reed in Washington, your heart would break at the sight of the heroic young men and women who have lost limbs (frequently more than one) or who are blind or paralyzed or horribly burned. Hundreds of thousands have suffered psychological wounds. Many have contemplated or tried suicide, and far too many have succeeded.
“Mr. President,” I would say, “we’ll never be right as a nation as long as we allow this to continue.”
The possibility of more troops for the war in Afghanistan was discussed Sunday on “Meet the Press.” Gov. Ed Rendell of Pennsylvania noted candidly that “our troops are tired and worn out.” More than 85 percent of the men and women in the Pennsylvania National Guard have already served in Iraq or Afghanistan. “Many of them have gone three or four times and they’re wasted,” said Mr. Rendell.
More troops? “Where are we going to find these troops?” the governor asked. “That’s what I want somebody to tell me.”
While we’re preparing to pour more resources into Afghanistan, the Economic Policy Institute is telling us that one in five American children is living in poverty, that nearly 35 percent of African-American children are living in poverty, and that the unemployment crisis is pushing us toward a point in the coming years where more than half of all black children in this country will be poor.
“Mr. President,” I would say, “we need your help.”
Links to this post
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share to Pinterest
New jihad code threatens al Qaeda
By
Nic Robertson
and
Paul Cruickshank , CNN
STORY HIGHLIGHTS
CNN gains exclusive access to jihadist organization challenging al Qaeda
Libyan Islamic Fighting Group produced new code for fighting jihad
Code's ban on killing women, children contradicts Al Qaeda's bombing methods
The LIFG has been at war with Col. Gaddafi's regime for two decades
RELATED TOPICS
Al Qaeda
Libya
Editors Note: This story is the result of a two-year CNN investigative report into peace talks held between the Libyan Islamic Fighting Group (LIFG) and the Libyan Government which recently culminated in the LIFG, a militant jihadist group once close to Osama bin Laden, repudiating al Qaeda. "The Jihadi Code," a documentary on the breakthrough against al Qaeda in Libya, airs on November 15 at 1200 GMT.
Tripoli, Libya
(CNN)
-- From within Libya's most secure jail a new challenge to al Qaeda is emerging.
Leaders of one of the world's most effective jihadist organizations, the Libyan Islamic Fighting Group (LIFG), have written a new "code" for jihad. The LIFG says it now views the armed struggle it waged against Col. Moammar Gadhafi's regime for two decades as illegal under Islamic law.
The new code, a 417-page religious document entitled "Corrective Studies" is the result of more than two years of intense and secret talks between the leaders of the LIFG and Libyan security officials.
The code's most direct challenge to al Qaeda is this: "Jihad has ethics and morals because it is for God. That means it is forbidden to kill women, children, elderly people, priests, messengers, traders and the like. Betrayal is prohibited and it is vital to keep promises and treat prisoners of war in a good way. Standing by those ethics is what distinguishes Muslims' jihad from the wars of other nations."
The code has been circulated among some of the most respected religious scholars in the Middle East and has been given widespread backing. It is being debated by politicians in the U.S. and studied by western intelligence agencies.
In essence the new code for jihad is exactly what the West has been waiting for: a credible challenge from within jihadist ranks to al Qaeda's ideology.
While the code states that jihad is permissible if Muslim lands are invaded -- citing the cases of Afghanistan, Iraq and Palestine -- the guidelines it sets down for when and how jihad should be fought, and its insistence that civilians should not be targeted are a clear rebuke to the goals and tactics of bin Laden's terrorist network.
CNN was given exclusive access to the Abu Salim jail where the code was written to talk to the LIFG prisoners. The jail has a bloody reputation; in 1996 prison guards put down a revolt by allegedly killing more than 1,200 prisoners in less than 24 hours.
Read how CNN got inside the prison
We also had exclusive access to the story behind the new code from two of its principle architects.
When Saif al Islam al Gadhafi, the son of Libyan leader Muammar Gaddafi, decided he wanted to open a dialogue with the LIFG he needed to convince them he was genuine so he sought out a former LIFG commander Noman Benotman, who was living in London.
The younger Gadhafi convinced Benotman he would free LIFG members from jail if they renounced their long war with the regime. He promised Benotman immunity from prosecution and in January 2007 flew him back to Libya to meet with the LIFG leaders in the high-security Abu Salim jail.
Benotman and the other leaders in the LIFG had fought together in Afghanistan in the early 1990s helping the Afghan Mujahedeen overthrow the Soviet-backed government in Kabul. During those years they'd come to know bin Laden and many other of al Qaeda leaders.
Although they'd been brothers in arms with bin Laden, the LIFG never merged its operations with al Qaeda due to differences in approach. In particular the Libyan group never endorsed bin Laden's global jihad, preferring to concentrate their attention on overthrowing the Gadhafi regime and replacing it with an Islamic state. From the mid-1990s the Libyan Islamic Fighting Group's Afghan-trained fighters waged a fierce insurgency against the Libyan regime.
In a face-to-face meeting in 2000 Benotman warned bin Laden not to attack the United States because any gains would be outweighed by the inevitable retribution, and undermine his group's efforts in Libya. By then Libyan security services had arrested many of the group's fighters in Libya.
Despite their differences bin Laden respected the LIFG's leadership. Indeed, according to Benotman, in the years before 9/11, bin Laden wanted to use the LIFG's extensive global network for his own ends but the group refused to put its assets at al Qaeda's disposal.
When Benotman met with the LIFG leaders in January 2007 it was the first time they'd seen him in years. Some had been in jail for more than a decade. Others were captured in the international dragnet for jihadists thrown out by security services in the wake of 9/11. They agreed to consider Saif al Islam's proposal but had demands of their own.
They wanted greater freedoms in jail, the right to consult with their rank and file membership, access to religious research books and more. Over time and many meetings the security officials granted most of their demands.
Saif al Islam was motivated not just to bring a formal end to the civil war but to put a stop to al Qaeda's growing influence in Libya.
As recently as 2006 al Qaeda documents captured by U.S. forces in Iraq showed per capita more Libyans than any other Arab nation were joining al Qaeda's fight. The regime's fear was that they'd bring their fight back to Libya.
In late 2007 as Benotman, the LIFG leadership and Libya's security officials debated the way forward al Qaeda tried to derail the peace process. Bin Laden's deputy Ayman al Zawahiri issued a statement declaring the LIFG had joined al Qaeda.
Benotman fired back an open letter to Zawahiri questioning his credibility. "I questioned their idea of jihad ... directly you know. This is crazy, it is not Islamic and it's against the Sunni understanding of Islam," Benotman told CNN. Zawahiri chose not to respond. As late as this August Zawahiri's video statements included praise of LIFG leaders, in what may have been a desperate attempt to head off the condemnation he could see coming.
Even so progress in the jail was slow. In April 2009 the talks were nearly derailed when Ibn Sheikh al Libi, a prominent jihadist was found hanged in his prison cell. According to sources familiar with the talks, Saif al Islam feared his death, which some LIFG members considered suspicious, could put the whole process in jeopardy. He put pressure on prison officials to meet the LIFG's remaining demands, giving them greater freedom to consult with the rank and file.
That led the LIFG to start writing their Revisons. In July 2009 the peace process received a boost when 30 LIFG members living in the UK, some of them senior figures in the group, signed on. The group's UK members, some of whom were under British government Control Orders because they potentially posed a danger to UK national security, had previously been openly skeptical of the talks.
In September the new code, the "Corrective Studies", was completed, resulting in scores of lower and mid-level LIFG members being freed. Moammar Gadhafi's son says the group's leaders will be released at some point in the future, and will be encouraged to educate and dissuade Libya's youth from going off to fight with al Qaeda.
According to Libyan sources, the British domestic intelligence agency MI5 passed on the Revisions document, after it was published, to a number of individuals subject to Control Orders in the UK. Those sources say the peace process has now led to Control Orders being dropped against 11 members of the group living in the UK, leaving only one Libyan subject to the restrictions. The process initiated in Tripoli appears to have directly made the West safer.
In their new code for Jihadists, LIFG's leaders made it clear that battling extremism will be challenging. "We have written this book knowing full well that the old motives and ideas which made us take up the armed struggle in the past are still to be found in the hearts and minds of many young Muslims today," they wrote.
"We know there are many issues that might lead them to take the same path; that's why we are offering our advice and guidance to these brothers."
Given its credibility and the fact that several other prominent Jihadists in the Middle East have turned against al Qaeda, the LIFG's about face may be an important step toward staunching al Qaeda's recruitment.
Links to this post
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share to Pinterest
Pigs Prove to Be Smart, if Not Vain
Pigs Prove to Be Smart, if Not Vain
By
NATALIE ANGIER
We’ve all heard the story of the third Little Pig, who foiled the hyperventilating wolf by building his house out of bricks, rather than with straw or sticks as his brothers had done. Less commonly known is that the pig later improved his home’s safety profile by installing convex security mirrors at key points along the driveway.
Well, why not? In the current issue of Animal Behaviour, researchers
present evidence
that domestic pigs can quickly learn how mirrors work and will use their understanding of reflected images to scope out their surroundings and find their food. The researchers cannot yet say whether the animals realize that the eyes in the mirror are their own, or whether pigs might rank with apes, dolphins and other species that have passed the famed “mirror self-recognition test” thought to be a marker of self-awareness and advanced intelligence.
To which I say, big squeal. Why should the pigs waste precious mirror time inspecting their teeth or straightening the hairs on their chinny-chin-chins, when they could be using the mirror as a tool to find a far prettier sight, the pig heaven that comes in a bowl?
The finding is just one in a series of recent discoveries from the nascent study of pig cognition. Other researchers have found that pigs are brilliant at remembering where food stores are cached and how big each stash is relative to the rest. They’ve shown that Pig A can almost instantly learn to follow Pig B when the second pig shows signs of knowing where good food is stored, and that Pig B will try to deceive the pursuing pig and throw it off the trail so that Pig B can hog its food in peace.
They’ve found that pigs are among the quickest of animals to learn a new routine, and pigs can do a circus’s worth of tricks: jump hoops, bow and stand, spin and make wordlike sounds on command, roll out rugs, herd sheep, close and open cages, play videogames with joysticks, and more. For better or worse, pigs are also slow to forget. “They can learn something on the first try, but then it’s difficult for them to unlearn it,” said Suzanne Held of the University of Bristol. “They may get scared once and then have trouble getting over it.”
Researchers have also found that no matter what new detail they unearth about pig acumen, the public reaction is the same. “People say, ‘Oh yes, pigs really are rather clever, aren’t they?’ ” said Richard W. Byrne, a professor of evolutionary
psychology
at the University of St. Andrews. “I would recommend that somebody study sheep or goats rather than pigs, so that people would be suitably impressed to find out your animal is clever.” His feigned frustration notwithstanding, he added, “if you want to understand the evolution of intelligence and social behaviors, it’s important to work on animals like pigs that are not at all closely related to us” but rather are cousins of whales and hippos.
So far, and yet so near. Last week, an international team of biologists released the first draft sequence of the pig genome, the complete set of genetic instructions for making the ruddy-furred Duroc breed of Sus scrofus. Even on a cursory glance, “the pig genome compares favorably with the human genome,” said Lawrence Schook of the
University of Illinois
at Urbana-Champaign, one of the team leaders.
“Very large sections are maintained in complete pieces,” he said, barely changed in the 100-million-plus years since the ancestors of hogs and humans diverged.
Dr. Schook is particularly eager to see if the many physiological and behavioral parallels between humans and pigs are reflected in our respective genomes. Pig hearts are like our hearts, he said, pigs metabolize drugs as we do, their teeth resemble our teeth, and their habits can, too. “I look at the pig as a great animal model for human lifestyle diseases,” he said. “Pigs like to lie around, they like to drink if given the chance, they’ll smoke and watch TV.”
Pigs have been a barnyard staple for at least 8,000 years, when they were domesticated from the wild boar in Asia and Europe. Domestication was easy, given that they loved to root around in dump sites. “The pigs were hard to hunt, but if you put the garbage out, a lot of them would be drawn out from the woods,” Dr. Schook said. “After a while, people realized, we don’t have to hunt them. All we have to do is put a fence around our garbage.”
Pigs were tireless composting machines. “They fed on our scraps,” Dr. Byrne said. “Everything we produced, they turned into good meat.” Pork is among the world’s most popular meats; in many places, pigs are a valuable form of currency. “In parts of New Guinea, they’re so important to villages that they’re suckled by people,” he said.
Of course, pigs aren’t always handled so lovingly, and these researchers denounced factory farms. “I’m German and I love sausage, but I would never eat pork that isn’t free range,” Dr. Held said.
Even in domesticity, pigs have retained much of their foreboar’s smarts. Dr. Byrne attributes pig intelligence to the same evolutionary pressures that prompted cleverness in primates: social life and food. Wild pigs live in long-term social groups, keeping track of one another as individuals, the better to protect against predation. They also root around for difficult food sources, requiring a dexterity of the snout not unlike the handiness of a monkey.
Because monkeys had been shown to use mirrors to locate food, Donald M. Broom of the
University of Cambridge
and his colleagues decided to check for a similar sort of so-called assessment awareness in pigs. They began by exposing seven 4-to-8-week-old pigs to five-hour stints with a mirror and recording their reactions. The pigs were fascinated, pointing their snouts toward the mirror, hesitating, vocalizing, edging closer, walking up and nuzzling the surface, looking at their image from different angles, looking behind the mirror. When the mirror was placed in their pen a day later, the glass-savvy pigs greeted it with a big ho-hum.
Next, the researchers put the mirror in the enclosure, along with a bowl of food that could not be directly seen but whose image was reflected in the mirror. They then compared the responses of the mirror-experienced pigs with a group of mirror-naïve pigs. On spotting the virtual food in the mirror, the experienced pigs turned away and within an average of 23 seconds had found the food. But the naïve pigs took the reflection for reality and sought in vain to find the bowl by rooting around behind the mirror. No doubt the poor frustrated little pigs couldn’t wait to get home, crack open a beer and turn on the TV.
Links to this post
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share to Pinterest
Who Is a Jew? Court Ruling in Britain Raises Question
November 8, 2009
Who Is a Jew? Court Ruling in Britain Raises Question
By
SARAH LYALL
LONDON — The questions before the judges in Courtroom No. 1 of
Britain ’s Supreme Court were as ancient and as complex as Judaism itself.
Who is a Jew? And who gets to decide?
On the surface, the court was considering a straightforward challenge to the admissions policy of a Jewish high school in London. But the case, in which arguments concluded Oct. 30, has potential repercussions for thousands of other parochial schools across Britain. And in addressing issues at the heart of Jewish identity, it has exposed bitter divisions in Britain’s community of 300,000 or so Jews, pitting members of various Jewish denominations against one another.
“This is potentially the biggest case in the British Jewish community’s modern history,” said Stephen Pollard, editor of the Jewish Chronicle newspaper here. “It speaks directly to the right of the state to intervene in how a religion operates.”
The case began when a 12-year-old boy, an observant Jew whose father is Jewish and whose mother is a Jewish convert, applied to the school, JFS. Founded in 1732 as the Jews’ Free School, it is a centerpiece of North London’s Jewish community. It has around 1,900 students, but it gets far more applicants than it accepts.
Britain has nearly 7,000 publicly financed religious schools, representing Judaism as well as the Church of England, Catholicism and Islam, among others. Under a 2006 law, the schools can in busy years give preference to applicants within their own faiths, using criteria laid down by a designated religious authority.
By many standards, the JFS applicant, identified in court papers as “M,” is Jewish. But not in the eyes of the school, which defines Judaism under the Orthodox definition set out by Jonathan Sacks, chief rabbi of the United Hebrew Congregations of the Commonwealth. Because M’s mother converted in a progressive, not an Orthodox, synagogue, the school said, she was not a Jew — nor was her son. It turned down his application.
That would have been the end of it. But M’s family sued, saying that the school had discriminated against him.
They lost , but the ruling was
overturned
by the Court of Appeal this summer.
In an explosive decision, the court concluded that basing school admissions on a classic test of Judaism — whether one’s mother is Jewish — was by definition discriminatory. Whether the rationale was “benign or malignant, theological or supremacist,” the court wrote, “makes it no less and no more unlawful.”
The case rested on whether the school’s test of Jewishness was based on religion, which would be legal, or on race or ethnicity, which would not. The court ruled that it was an ethnic test because it concerned the status of M’s mother rather than whether M considered himself Jewish and practiced Judaism.
“The requirement that if a pupil is to qualify for admission his mother must be Jewish, whether by descent or conversion, is a test of ethnicity which contravenes the Race Relations Act,” the court said. It added that while it was fair that Jewish schools should give preference to Jewish children, the admissions criteria must depend not on family ties, but “on faith, however defined.”
The same reasoning would apply to a Christian school that “refused to admit a child on the ground that, albeit practicing Christians, the child’s family were of Jewish origin,” the court said.
The school appealed to the Supreme Court, which is likely to rule sometime before the end of the year.
The case’s importance was driven home by the sheer number of lawyers in the courtroom last week, representing not just M’s family and the school, but also the British government, the Equalities and Human Rights Commission, the United Synagogue, the British Humanist Association and the Board of Deputies of British Jews.
Meanwhile, the Court of Appeal ruling threw the school into a panicked scramble to put together a new admissions policy. It introduced a “religious practice test,” in which prospective students amass points for things like going to synagogue and doing charitable work.
That has led to all sorts of awkward practical issues, said Jon Benjamin, chief executive of the Board of Deputies of British Jews, because Orthodox Judaism forbids writing or using a computer on the Sabbath. That means that children who go to synagogue can’t “sign in,” but have to use methods like dropping prewritten postcards into boxes.
It is unclear what effect the ruling, if it is upheld, will have on other religious schools. Some Catholic schools, accustomed to using baptism as a baseline admissions criterion, are worried that they will have to adopt similar practice tests.
The case has stirred up long-simmering resentments among the leaders of different Jewish denominations, who, for starters, disagree vehemently on the definition of Jewishness. They also disagree on the issue of whether an Orthodox leader is entitled to speak for the entire community.
“Whatever happens in this case, there must be some resolution sorted out between different denominations,” Mr. Benjamin said in an interview. “That the community has failed to grasp this has had the very unfortunate result of having a judgment foisted on it by a civil court.”
Orthodox Jews, of course, sympathize with the school, saying that observance is no test of Jewishness, and that all that matters is whether one’s mother is Jewish. So little does observance matter, in fact, that “having a ham sandwich on the afternoon of Yom Kippur doesn’t make you less Jewish,” Rabbi Yitzchak Schochet, chairman of the Rabbinical Council of the United Synagogue, said recently.
Lauren Lesin-Davis, chairman of the board of governors at King David, a Jewish school in Liverpool, told the
BBC
that the ruling violated more than 5,000 years of Jewish tradition.
“You cannot come in and start telling people how their whole lives should change, that the whole essence of their life and their religion is completely wrong,” she said.
But others are in complete sympathy with M.
“How dare they question our beliefs and our Jewishness?” David Lightman, an observant Jewish father whose daughter was also denied a place at the school because it did not recognize her mother’s conversion, told reporters recently. “I find it offensive and very upsetting.”
Rabbi Danny Rich, chief executive of Liberal Judaism here, said the lower court’s ruling, if upheld, would help make Judaism more inclusive.
“JFS is a state-funded school where my grandfather taught, and it’s selecting applicants on the basis of religious politics,” he said in an interview. “The Orthodox definition of Jewish excludes 40 percent of the Jewish community in this country.”
Links to this post
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share to Pinterest
New York Gay Rights Foe Sees Nuance in His Stand
November 10, 2009
New York Gay Rights Foe Sees Nuance in His Stand
By
NICHOLAS CONFESSORE
and
JEREMY W. PETERS
ALBANY — Every Sunday morning, the deep, melodious voice of State Senator
Rubén Díaz Sr.
rumbles across the congregation at his Bronx church. On weekdays, it echoes across the Senate chamber as he rails against
Medicaid
cuts or abortion. Earlier this year, it enthralled thousands at a boisterous rally against
same-sex marriage .
But ask him about the gay people in his own life, and Mr. Díaz’s voice grows quiet. His smile vanishes.
Two of his brothers are gay, he murmurs, one of them recently deceased. So is a granddaughter. There is an old friend who works for him in the Senate. And a former campaign aide.
“I love them. I love them,” says Mr. Díaz, who grew up one of 17 children in Puerto Rico. “But I don’t believe in what they are doing. They are my brothers. They are my family.”
His voice rises again. “So how could I be a homophobe?”
For those fighting to expand gay rights, Mr. Díaz, a Pentecostal minister, represents the most outspoken and unpredictable of foes. He was forced to resign from the city’s
Civilian Complaint Review Board
years ago for suggesting that the Gay Games would encourage homosexuality and spread H.I.V. In 2003, he sued the city to shut down a high school for gay and transgender students.
As advocates push for a vote on same-sex marriage in the State Senate on Tuesday, Mr. Díaz is again speaking out, arguing that last week’s election results show that the tide has turned against allowing gay people to wed.
And, given the Democrats’ fragile majority — the party has 32 senators to the Republicans’ 30 — Mr. Díaz’s stubbornness often yields results.
“The people of the nation don’t want gay marriage,” Mr. Díaz said in an interview Monday. “They didn’t want it in California; they didn’t want it in Maine. And the people of upstate New York, after what happened to the candidate in the 23rd Congressional District, they sent a message they don’t want gay marriage. Forget about it. People don’t want it.”
Mr. Díaz argued that the bill legalizing same-sex marriage should not be allowed to come to the floor, saying the Legislature has more important issues to attend to.
And some of his colleagues on Monday, while avoiding his provocative language, appeared to be moving to that position, worried that the political climate is too tense and the state’s fiscal crisis too urgent for the issue to be taken up now. On Monday evening, it was not clear whether the Senate would consider the measure.
The fight over same-sex marriage has thrust Mr. Díaz, 66, back into a familiar role — dissenting from and exasperating Democratic Senate leaders and some of his colleagues.
Earlier this year, he and three other Democrats initially refused to back
Malcolm A. Smith , the Senate’s top Democrat, for majority leader, throwing the Democratic caucus into chaos until Mr. Smith offered them perks and committee chairmanships.
Mr. Díaz is also the Senate’s most outspoken opponent of abortion, and he once likened the harvesting of
stem cells
for research to
Hitler
using “the ashes of the Jews to make bars of soap.”
“He always comes into conference or onto the floor with his mind made up, ready to argue,” said Senator Eric Schneiderman, a Democrat who represents Manhattan and the Bronx. “And he loves to argue.”
But to Mr. Díaz and his friends, the senator’s steadfast opposition to same-sex marriage seems at times incongruous.
Christopher R. Lynn, Mr. Díaz’s chief counsel, who is gay and lives with his partner in Queens, said that he has undergone three back operations, and that every time he goes into the hospital, Mr. Díaz has been there.
“He is a true believer in Christian values, in treating people the way you want to be treated,” Mr. Lynn said.
Mr. Díaz describes Mr. Lynn as “my brother.” They often double-date with their respective better halves. Mr. Lynn has not been able to move Mr. Díaz on the issue of marriage.
“He said to me, ‘For me to accept this, I have to turn my whole value system upside down,’ ” Mr. Lynn said.
Mr. Díaz, whose South Bronx district is the second-poorest in New York, also raises his voice loudly on behalf of the poor, leaving some liberals in the Capitol reluctant to criticize him for his social views because he has been a reliable ally on economic issues.
“I see people looking at me, like, ‘Look at this guy,’ ”Mr. Díaz said, rolling his eyes. “And in the end, I get what want.”
In many ways, Mr. Díaz seems conflicted. He relishes the role of the lonely dissident, sometimes practically taunting Democratic leaders to throw him out of the party. Still, the senator resents those who brand him a bigot for his views, and seems to plead for understanding.
“My religion doesn’t allow me to dance,” he said. “But that does not mean I don’t go to the party. My religion doesn’t allow me to drink. But that doesn’t mean I can’t hang around with my friends. My religion is against gay marriage. It means, I don’t agree with what you do. But let’s go out. Let’s go to the movies. Let’s be friends.”
Mr. Díaz grew up in Puerto Rico. His father, a carpenter, had five children with his mother; Mr. Díaz also had 11 half-brothers and sisters. He joined the Army out of high school, in 1960, and served in Fort Jackson, S.C.
He moved to New York in 1965 and fell into drugs. Arrested for possession of heroin and
marijuana , he got probation. Not long after, he found God. He became a pastor, a community leader, a city councilman, a senator.
Affection seems to flow to him from unexpected places. On a tour of his district, Mr. Díaz eagerly showed a reporter Christian Community in Action, an agency he founded in the burnt-out ruins of the Bronx to provide home health aides to the sick and elderly. There, Mr. Díaz greeted Vincent Ortiz, a supervisor he has known for 18 years.
“We fight, of course,” said Mr. Ortiz, who is gay. “But it is mostly good years.”
But then there are moments of coldness. Last year, Lisa Winters, who runs the Bronx Pride Community Center, a group for gay youth, requested a meeting with the senator. He never responded. She showed up anyway, with a group of gay teenagers, and was told that Mr. Díaz was not in. Moments later, she said, they saw Mr. Díaz leaving his office by a side door.
(The senator said he does not recall this happening. “I never hide from anyone,” he said.)
This spring, Mr. Díaz led a small delegation of legislators to Puerto Rico, and at the end of the trip, he hosted a barbeque at his family’s home.
His brother — whom Mr. Díaz will not name because, he says, the brother is not openly gay — was there to greet the guests. There was no discussion, Mr. Díaz said, about how he would vote on gay marriage.
“We don’t need to talk about that anymore,” Mr. Díaz said.
Site Map
Links to this post
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share to Pinterest
Women say 'adios' to black hair salons in favor of Dominicans
By
Myranda Stephens
9:00 AM on 11/10/2009
Read More:
Black Women ,
Dominican ,
Dominican Republic ,
Hair ,
Hair Salon
Julia Dominican Hair Salon in Pikesville, MD
Janis Boatwright doesn't speak Spanish. "Buenos dias. That's all I can tell you," Boatwright chuckles.
Yet, she's part of a growing number of African-American women who are saying "adios" to black hair salons and "hola" to Dominican hair salons. "I like the fullness you get in your hair," said Boatwright, 49, of Baltimore. "You don't have to have a relaxer; you can get your hair blown out with the brush."
According to Jennifer Drew, creator of
roundbrushhair.com,
a Website that tracks and promotes Dominican hair salons nationwide, African-American women make up an estimated 95 percent of the clientele at Dominican hair shops. Dominican salons are known for their signature hair styling that includes roller setting the hair and using a round brush and blow dryer to finish the look. Drew said the technique, along with their fast walk-in service and low prices makes them more appealing to black women. In Maryland, the average cost for basic service is $35, compared to $50 at black salons.
"You can afford to go back weekly, whereas if you're spending $50 to $55 [at a black hair salon], maybe you'll go once a month," explained Drew.
Based in Jessup, Maryland, Drew is a liaison and translator for stylists and clients who face a language barrier. She's also African-American. "Everybody's always surprised," Drew laughs.
The 27-year-old Washington, D.C. native became an "honorary Dominican" in 2003, when she spent months in the Dominican Republic learning the language and culture of the people. She loved the Dominican hair experience so much that she donated all of her clothes just to fill her suitcase with their products on the return home. Trying to replicate her experience in D.C., however, proved difficult. "I couldn't find [any Dominican salons]" says Drew. "The ones I did find, I didn't care for."
In 2006, Drew launched her Website to help others find Dominican salons beyond the New York area, which they have exclusively called home for years. Since then, the salons have rapidly spread across the U.S., including Maryland, which went from five locations on her site to 65 and counting.
"I'm so glad to work for the Americans," says Julia Zapata, owner of Julia Dominican Hair Salon in Pikesville, MD, which opened in October. "A lot of black Americans... they're coming to us because they understand we care [for] the hair." But the reception isn't warm everywhere.
"What's cheaper is not always better," asserts Deborah Wiggs, owner of Maryland-based Xscape Hair Salon. Wiggs, who is African-American, says the styling technique used at most Dominican salons can eventually lead to baldness in black women. "Their hair is a different texture than ours," says Wiggs. "You've got a brush with bristles close together and you're ripping through the hair. It's damaging, especially for women with chemically-treated hair. "
Wiggs' daughter, Tonya Wiggs, 31, also does hair at Xscape. She said while some of her clients left the salon for a Dominican salon, all eventually came back. "I actually had a very good friend go. She just wanted to see what it was like, and when she called me she said 'My hair... it's fluffy, it's blowing in the wind, but I have about three strands left.'"
The Wiggs compared the rise of Dominican hair salons to Asian nail salons, which they say all but wiped out "the African-American nail tech" because of their quick service and cheap products and prices. The pair, however, isn't concerned that Dominican hair salons will have the same impact.
"When your nails start breaking you might not like it, but everyone doesn't notice. When your hair is gone, everyone notices," explains Tonya. Still, she believes the popularity of Dominican salons should serve as a wake-up call to African-American hair stylists, who no longer have the stronghold they once had on the black hair industry.
"As business owners and hair stylists, African-American salons really need to step their game up so they won't lose clients." For some salons, it may be too late. After two years of patronizing Dominican hair salons, Boatwright said she can't imagine going back to black. "I wouldn't say never, but I know for right now, I'm going to keep going to the Dominican salons."
Stay in the know with theGrio. Read latest news and features sent from theGrio right to your mailbox by signing up with your email.
Links to this post
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share to Pinterest
Vanished Persian army said found in desert
MS NBC.com
Vanished Persian army said found in desert
50,000 soldiers believed buried by a cataclysmic sandstorm in 525 B.C.
By Rossella Lorenzi
Discovery Channel
updated 11:11 a.m. ET, Mon., Nov . 9, 2009
The remains of a mighty Persian army said to have drowned in the sands of the western Egyptian desert 2,500 years ago might have been finally located, solving one of archaeology's biggest outstanding mysteries, according to Italian researchers.
Bronze weapons, a silver bracelet, an earring and hundreds of human bones found in the vast desolate wilderness of the Sahara desert have raised hopes of finally finding the lost army of Persian King Cambyses II. The 50,000 warriors were said to be buried by a cataclysmic sandstorm in 525 B.C.
"We have found the first archaeological evidence of a story reported by the Greek historian Herodotus," Dario Del Bufalo, a member of the expedition from the University of Lecce, told Discovery News.
According to Herodotus (484-425 B.C.), Cambyses, the son of Cyrus the Great, sent 50,000 soldiers from Thebes to attack the Oasis of Siwa and destroy the oracle at the Temple of Amun after the priests there refused to legitimize his claim to Egypt.
After walking for seven days in the desert, the army got to an "oasis," which historians believe was El-Kharga. After they left, they were never seen again.
"A wind arose from the south, strong and deadly, bringing with it vast columns of whirling sand, which entirely covered up the troops and caused them wholly to disappear," wrote Herodotus.
A century after Herodotus wrote his account, Alexander the Great made his own pilgrimage to the oracle of Amun, and in 332 B.C. he won the oracle's confirmation that he was the divine son of Zeus, the Greek god equated with Amun.
The tale of Cambyses' lost army, however, faded into antiquity. As no trace of the hapless warriors was ever found, scholars began to dismiss the story as a fanciful tale.
Striking evidence
Now, two top Italian archaeologists claim to have found striking evidence that the Persian army was indeed swallowed in a sandstorm. Twin brothers Angelo and Alfredo Castiglioni are already famous for their discovery 20 years ago of the ancient Egyptian "city of gold" known as Berenike Panchrysos.
Presented recently at the archaeological film festival of Rovereto, the discovery is the result of 13 years of research and five expeditions to the desert.
"It all started in 1996, during an expedition aimed at investigating the presence of iron meteorites near Bahrin, one small oasis not far from Siwa," Alfredo Castiglioni, director of the Eastern Desert Research Center (CeRDO)in Varese, told Discovery News.
While working in the area, the researchers noticed a half-buried pot and some human remains. Then the brothers spotted something really intriguing — what could have been a natural shelter.
It was a rock about 114.8 feet long, 5.9 feet in height and 9.8 feet deep. Such natural formations occur in the desert, but this large rock was the only one in a large area.
"Its size and shape made it the perfect refuge in a sandstorm," Castiglioni said.
Right there, the metal detector of Egyptian geologist Aly Barakat of Cairo University located relics of ancient warfare: a bronze dagger and several arrow tips.
"We are talking of small items, but they are extremely important as they are the first Achaemenid objects, thus dating to Cambyses' time, which have emerged from the desert sands in a location quite close to Siwa," Castiglioni said.
About a quarter-mile from the natural shelter, the Castiglioni team found a silver bracelet, an earring and few spheres which were likely part of a necklace.
"An analysis of the earring, based on photographs, indicate that it certainly dates to the Achaemenid period. Both the earring and the spheres appear to be made of silver. Indeed a very similar earring, dating to the fifth century B.C., has been found in a dig in Turkey," Andrea Cagnetti, a leading expert of ancient jewelry, told Discovery News.
A different route?
In the following years, the Castiglioni brothers studied ancient maps and came to the conclusion that Cambyses' army did not take the widely believed caravan route via the Dakhla Oasis and Farafra Oasis.
"Since the 19th century, many archaeologists and explorers have searched for the lost army along that route. They found nothing. We hypothesized a different itinerary, coming from south. Indeed we found that such a route already existed in the 18th Dynasty," Castiglioni said.
According to Castiglioni, from El Kargha the army took a westerly route to Gilf El Kebir, passing through the Wadi Abd el Melik, then headed north toward Siwa.
"This route had the advantage of taking the enemy aback. Moreover, the army could march undisturbed. On the contrary, since the oasis on the other route were controlled by the Egyptians, the army would have had to fight at each oasis," Castiglioni said.
To test their hypothesis, the Castiglioni brothers did geological surveys along that alternative route. They found desiccated water sources and artificial wells made of hundreds of water pots buried in the sand. Such water sources could have made a march in the desert possible.
"Thermoluminescence has dated the pottery to 2,500 years ago, which is in line with Cambyses' time," Castiglioni said.
In their last expedition in 2002, the Castiglioni brothers returned to the location of their initial discovery. Right there, some 62 miles south of Siwa, ancient maps had erroneously located the temple of Amun.
The soldiers believed they had reached their destination, but instead they found the khamsin -- the hot, strong, unpredictable southeasterly wind that blows from the Sahara desert over Egypt.
"Some soldiers found refuge under that natural shelter, other dispersed in various directions. Some might have reached the lake of Sitra, thus surviving," Castiglioni said.
Mass grave discovered
At the end of their expedition, the team decided to investigate Bedouin stories about thousands of white bones that would have emerged decades ago during particular wind conditions in a nearby area.
Indeed, they found a mass grave with hundreds of bleached bones and skulls.
"We learned that the remains had been exposed by tomb robbers and that a beautiful sword which was found among the bones was sold to American tourists," Castiglioni said.
Among the bones, a number of Persian arrow heads and a horse bit, identical to one appearing in a depiction of an ancient Persian horse, emerged.
"In the desolate wilderness of the desert, we have found the most precise location where the tragedy occurred," Del Bufalo said.
The team communicated their finding to the Geological Survey of Egypt and gave the recovered objects to the Egyptian authorities.
"We never heard back. I'm sure that the lost army is buried somewhere around the area we surveyed, perhaps under 16.4 feet of sand."
Piero Pruneti, editor of Archeologia Viva, Italy's most important archaeology magazine, is impressed by the team's work.
"Judging from their documentary, their hypothesis of an alternative route is very plausible," Prunetic told Discovery News. "Indeed, the Castiglioni's expeditions are all based on a careful study of the landscape...An in-depth exploration of the area is certainly needed!"
© 2009 Discovery Channel
URL:
http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/33791672/ns/technology_and_science-science/
MSN Privacy
.
Legal
© 2009 MSNBC.com
Links to this post
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share to Pinterest
A Margherita pizza from the East Village Motorino.
November 9, 2009
From Serious Eats Talk: 'Is Motorino Really That Good?'
Posted by
Adam Kuban , November 9, 2009 at 3:10 PM
A Margherita pizza from the East Village Motorino. [ Photograph: Philip Given ]
On Slice parent site Serious Eats,
sushiburger
says:
... Then we went to
Motorino
on 12th Street. After hearing all the rave on
SE/Slice (for the one in Brooklyn)
I decided to try it. We ordered the Margherita. Since we had already eaten a pork bun and half a sandwich, we ordered just one pie (plus, it was like 5 p.m. so no one was there), but the guy working there gave us a weird look and said in the back, "They just want one... no, that's it... just give them one," in a tone that made me feel like I was doing something wrong. Then the pizza was not as good as I expected. The 5 cheese blops we had (I counted) were delicious, but the sauce was underseasoned. The crust was good, and all in all the pizza was definitely above average but nowhere near the reviews. For $14 for 4 slices, I expect a little more (at least in taste).
In any case, maybe this was a bad night?
Maybe the one in Manhattan is just not as good as the one in Brooklyn? Anyone else have a similar experience?
Slice and dice here »
Comments are Closed.
Favorite this!   (0)
Tagged:
East Village ,
Motorino ,
Motorino (East Village) ,
Serious Eats Talk
Links to this post
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share to Pinterest
59-year-old shocks mourners who believed they were burying crash victim
59-year-old shocks mourners who believed they were burying crash victim
The Associated Press
updated 2:26 p.m. ET, Wed., Nov . 4, 2009
RIO DE JANEIRO - A Brazilian bricklayer reportedly killed in a car crash shocked his mourning family by showing up alive at his funeral.
Relatives of Ademir Jorge Goncalves, 59, had identified him as the victim of a Sunday night car crash in Parana state in southern Brazil, police said.
As is customary in Brazil, the funeral was held the following day, which happened to be the holiday of Finados, when Brazilians visit cemeteries to honor the dead.
What family members didn't know was that Goncalves had spent the night at a truck stop talking with friends over drinks of a sugarcane liquor known as cachaca, his niece Rosa Sampaio told the O Globo newspaper. He did not get word about his own funeral until it was already happening Monday morning.
A police spokesman in the town of Santo Antonio da Platina said Goncalves rushed to the funeral to let family members know he was not dead.
"The corpse was badly disfigured, but dressed in similar clothing," said the police spokesman, who talked on condition of anonymity as he wasn't authorized to discuss the case. "People are afraid to look for very long when they identify bodies, and I think that is what happened in this case."
'I had doubts'
Sampaio told O Globo that some family members were not sure the body was Goncalves.
"My two uncles and I had doubts about the identification," she told O Globo. "But an aunt and four of his friends identified the body, so what were we to do? We went ahead with the funeral."
The police spokesman confirmed there were doubts: "His mom looked at the body in the casket and thought something was strange. She looked and looked and couldn't believe it was her son," Sampaio said. "Before long, the walking dead appeared at the funeral. It was a relief."
The body was correctly identified later Monday, the police spokesman said, and has already been buried in another state. He declined to release the actual victim's name.
Copyright 2009 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.
URL:
http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/33622390/ns/world_news-weird_news/
MSN Privacy
.
Legal
© 2009 MSNBC.com
Links to this post
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share to Pinterest
Woman passes driver's test on 950th try
South Korean must still get past the driving exam to get license
The Associated Press
updated 4:00 p.m. ET, Mon., Nov . 9, 2009
SEOUL, South Korea - A woman in South Korea who tried to pass the written exam for a driver's license with near-daily attempts since April 2005 has finally succeeded on her 950th time.
The aspiring driver spent more than 5 million won ($4,200) in application fees, but until now had failed to score the minimum 60 out of a possible 100 points needed to get behind the wheel for a driving test.
Cha Sa-soon, 68, finally passed the written exam with a score of 60 on Wednesday, said Choi Young-chul, a police official at the drivers' license agency in Jeonju, 130 miles (210 kilometers) south of Seoul.
Police said Cha took the test hundreds of times, but had no specific total. Local media said she took the test 950 times.
Now she must pass a driving test before getting her license, Choi said.
Repeated calls to Cha seeking comment went unanswered. She told the Korea Times newspaper she needed the license for her vegetable-selling business.
Copyright 2009 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.
URL:
http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/33802173/ns/world_news-weird_news/
MSN Privacy
.
Legal
© 2009 MSNBC.com
Links to this post
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share to Pinterest
Newer Posts
Older Posts
Home
Subscribe to:
Posts (Atom)
KEVIN BLYTHE SAMPSON'S ART PAGE
I am a child of the civil rights movement, A widower who raised three kids alone. Who happens to be a working Artist with a Gallery In NY. I am a retired Police officer who has taught in the inner city for over 30 years.
Venezia African Jack
My Art Work
boggles bangles and beads
Untitled
Jimmy Walker
Georgie Boy
My New MUral the Song of the Passaic, Riverfront Park, Newark NJ
Who I am
MY Installation Their is a Ill wind ablowin
Blog Archive
Blog Archive
July (1)
August (3)
September (17)
October (60)
November (28)
December (30)
January (22)
February (5)
March (17)
April (41)
May (52)
June (139)
July (163)
August (88)
September (203)
October (146)
November (218)
December (307)
January (343)
February (257)
March (311)
April (174)
May (326)
June (204)
July (342)
August (351)
September (297)
October (237)
November (128)
December (110)
January (123)
February (119)
March (69)
April (48)
May (19)
June (43)
July (53)
August (29)
September (15)
October (22)
November (25)
December (15)
January (14)
February (9)
March (21)
April (9)
May (9)
June (17)
July (4)
August (4)
September (10)
October (16)
November (6)
December (15)
January (19)
February (9)
March (1)
May (1)
June (3)
July (6)
August (5)
December (4)
January (3)
March (2)
April (2)
May (2)
June (1)
July (1)
August (10)
September (15)
October (2)
November (1)
February (1)
July (6)
August (1)
September (1)
EMAIL ME HERE
Google+ Badge
Search This Blog
Loading...
Labels
African American
(4)
kevin blythe sampson
(204)
Kevin says
(79)
Stuff Kevin Wrote
(232)
feed
stats
Feedit
Feedjit Live Blog Stats
The Art of KEVIN BLYTHE SAMPSON
KEVIN BLYTHE SAMPSON
I am a child of the civil rights movement, a Widower who raised two kids.. A gallery Artist at Cavin-Morris Gallery in NY for over 20 years.. I am also a retired Police officer (Composite Sketch Artist) who has taught
art in the inner city for over 30 years.
read articles online ?max-results="+numposts1+"&orderby=published&alt=json-in-script&callback=showrecentposts1\">");
Here I am
shiny
Kevin Phone interview with Della Crews, New Jersey News !2
Powered by
Blogger .