Dashboard News • Legendary Cosmopolitan editor, Helen Gurley Brown,...
Home
TWITTER
World
U.S.
Business
Technology
Science
Entertainment
Politics
Sport
Video
Profile
Search
Ask away!
Submit "stuff" to us! ;-)
DASHBOARD NEWS
Bringing you the latest in breaking news, technology, science, politics, sport and more; aggregated from sources all over the internet.
STALK US
Follow us on Twitter
Like us on Facebook
Add us to one of your Google+ circles
Subscribe to our Youtube channel
Search
for
Something
Ask away!
Submit "stuff" to us! ;-)
Hi-Res
Legendary Cosmopolitan editor, Helen Gurley Brown, dies at age 90
Helen Gurley Brown , editor-in-chief of  Cosmopolitan
magazine s’ 64 international editions and one of the world’s most popular and influential editors, has died.
A spokesman for the
Hearst Corporation , which publishes Cosmopolitan, said that Ms. Brown, 90, passed away after being hospitalized briefly at NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital/Columbia University Medical Center
Ms. Brown, who wrote ’ Sex and the Single Girl ,’ took over the magazine — giving it its sexually frank tone — in 1965. She remained editor until 1997 and is still listed as editor in chief for Cosmopolitan International on all mastheads. Until her death, Ms. Brown was known for coming into her pink corner office nearly every day.
“Helen Gurley Brown was an icon. Her formula for honest and straightforward advice about relationships, career and beauty revolutionized the magazine industry,” said Frank A. Bennack, Jr., CEO of
Hearst Corporation . “She lived every day of her life to the fullest and will always be remembered as the quintessential ‘Cosmo girl.’ She will be greatly missed.”
Her and her husband
David Brown ’s philanthropy also left an indelible mark on journalism: In January, Gurley Brown gave $30 million to Columbia and Stanford Universities. The gift created the  David and Helen Gurley Brown Institute for Media Innovation , housed at both Columbia's Graduate School of Journalism and the School of Engineering at Stanford. The center represents the “increasingly important connection between journalism and technology, bringing the best from the East and West Coasts,” both schools announced. The journalism school said its $18 million share was the largest donation in its 100-year history.
Gurley Brown’s husband, David, who died in 2010, attended both universities and was a movie producer whose films included
Jaws ,
The Sting
and
The Verdict . He was 93.
Published:
August 14, 2012
xn--gba
Tags:
news
helen gurley brown
cosmo
cosmopolitan
magazine
Share this post:
Tweet
< Previous
Next >
Close
Previous Post
Next Post
© Dashboard News
Original background image courtesy of Kyle M on Flickr