Letters of Note: A vampire in striped pajamas
skip to main
|
skip to sidebar
Random Letter
About
Letters of Note is an attempt to gather and sort fascinating letters, postcards, telegrams, faxes, and memos. Scans/photos where possible. Fakes will be sneered at. Updated as often as possible; usually each weekday. Learn more here . Edited by
Shaun Usher , who also runs
Lists of Note
&
Letterheady . Contribute/get in touch . Follow Letters of Note... RSS | Email | Twitter Tumblr | Facebook
SEARCH
Most Read
+
To My Old Master +
You have a big mouth +
Your pal, John K +
Your friend, Conan +
Hang on, my love +
Most beautiful death +
Our differences unite us +
Pixar don't finish films +
Love, Dad +
What a world +
The Tiger Oil Memos +
Wilder, on Wonka +
Slaughterhouse Five +
He's called Mick Jagger +
Favourite memo ever +
I am very real +
Live like a mighty river +
My outstanding experience +
Damn you all to hell +
Dear 8yr old Teresa +
The woman pays +
Idiot of the 33rd Degree +
A Personal Letter +
Nothing good gets away +
Message from another world +
My Dearest Laquette +
I like words +
STAR TREK/Casting +
Not much has changed +
My name is David Jones +
The Masked Letter +
Everything comes to an end +
God is a human weakness +
TO A TOP SCIENTIST +
Eye Lines +
I can't live without you +
SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS TO PLAYERS +
IN EVENT OF MOON DISASTER +
I'll always be with you
Archives
Many fascinating letters (currently 900 in total) can be found in the archives,
here . Alternatively, below are the most popular.
A vampire in striped pajamas
In April of 1994, after being shown a copy of the publication's Turkish edition, legendary
Cosmopolitan
editor
Helen Gurley Brown
wrote the following amusingly despairing letter to its editor, Elif Dagistanli. The two ladies never did meet at the conference — soon after the letter reached Turkey, Dagistanli was relieved of her job.
( Source:
Dear Pussycat ; Image: Helen Gurley Brown,
via . )
April 14, 1994
Dear Elif,
You and I don't know each other and I'm looking forward to our getting acquainted. We will do that when Cosmo has a conference of international editors this October. Elif, I'm not the one who decides what to put in your magazine—the editor is the sole judge—but I really feel we can't do what you are doing. Ecran Arikli I think would not have made an agreement with Hearst Corporation, who own Cosmo, if they wanted the magazine to be something totally different from the Cosmopolitan that we publish—otherwise they would just have started a new magazine without bothering with us. What I am getting at is that the cover is totally unacceptable! If you want to do your own magazine, that is one thing, but if you want to edit Cosmo, then we simply don't use men on the cover let alone one with his pants open—there! May I go on? The naked girl with one hand on her crotch and one on her bosom is also pretty strong for us.
What is the girl with the whip on pages 84 and 85—it looks very sado-masochistic, a subject we might deal with but never in such a glamorous way. That would also go for the girl with the chains around her neck on page 87—if I've got my pages right. (It would be nice to see some page numbers a little often. The last one I saw was on page 80.) I think this is 93 but not sure. Anyway, the blonde girl is too "raunchy"
for us—definitely not a Cosmo girl.
Our women are sexy and gorgeous but they don't look like girls from a burlesque show.
Next we get on to the men's section with the man looking like a vampire in striped pajamas. On the next spread we have a man with a snake crawling on his face and opposite him a man fondling his crotch.
Elif, really, this isn't the right direction to go in everybody's opinion who has anything to do with the magazine. Naturally, I haven't polled everybody in the entire world but I don't need to—Cosmo has a specific format and although each international editor has her own ideas about what goes in the book, I don't think they would be along the lines of your particular presentation. As I mentioned, you don't have any page numbers so I can't tell you where we are but opposite the Clinique photograph—pale blue jar on white page, we have really disagreeable girl again—naked and sad. Then we get to the special men's supplement. Another man with his pants undone on the cover, then we get to the penis on page 7 and the raunchy girl holding her breasts on page 10.
Elif, I don't think we could go on like this. Do you wish to edit Cosmo or do we try to find another publisher in Turkey? I don't quite know what to do next. Perhaps you will tell me.
All my best wishes,
Helen
Comments are now
closed
on Letters of Note.
Have something to say? Get in touch via
email
or
Twitter .
The Letters of Note book is out October 2013; learn more
here .
Visit the
Archives
for hundreds more letters.
Follow Letters of Note:
RSS | Email | Twitter | Facebook
Share
Newer Post
Older Post
Home
MORE LETTERS OF NOTE
The sequel is now in shops - Special edition exclusively available from
Unbound
Buy now
LETTERS OF NOTE
The perfect gift for Christmas - Special edition exclusively available from
Unbound
Buy now
LISTS OF NOTE
The perfect gift for Christmas - Special edition exclusively available from
Unbound
Buy now
Letters brought to life on stage
Find out more
Letters of Note is proudly sponsored by
TinyLetter , a simple newsletter service for people with something to say.
CSS
designed by
Mohd Huzairy from
MentariWorks
| Layout
created by
Blogger Templates