Jaws (film) ~ Celebrity
skip to main
|
skip to sidebar
Home
Celebrity
Our Sponsors
Home
Business
Internet
Market
Stock
Downloads
Dvd
Games
Software
Office
Parent Category
Child Category 1
Sub Child Category 1
Sub Child Category 2
Sub Child Category 3
Child Category 2
Child Category 3
Child Category 4
Featured
Health
Childcare
Doctors
music
politics
Uncategorized
Friday, January 21, 2011
Jaws (film)
3:19 AM
Wikipedia
No comments
Jaws  is a 1975 American  thriller film  directed by  Steven Spielberg  and based on  Peter Benchley 's  novel of the same name . The police chief of Amity Island, a fictional summer resort town, tries to protect beachgoers from a giant man-eating  great white shark  by closing the beach, only to be overruled by the town council, which wants the beach to remain open to draw a profit from tourists during the summer season. After several attacks, the police chief enlists the help of a  marine biologist  and a professional shark hunter.  Roy Scheider  stars as police chief Martin Brody,  Richard Dreyfuss  as marine biologist Matt Hooper,  Robert Shaw  as shark hunter Quint,  Murray Hamilton  as the Mayor of Amity Island, and  Lorraine Gary  as Brody's wife, Ellen. Jaws  is regarded as a watershed film in motion picture history, the father of the summer blockbuster film  and one of the first " high concept " films. [ 1 ] [ 2 ]  Due to the film's success in advance screenings, studio executives decided to distribute it in a much wider release than ever before.  The Omen  followed suit in the summer of 1976 and then  Star Wars  one year later in 1977, cementing the notion for movie studios to distribute their big-release action and adventure pictures (commonly referred to as  tentpole pictures ) during the summer.  Jaws  is widely regarded as one of  the greatest films of all time . [ 3 ] [ 4 ] [ 5 ] [ 6 ] [ 7 ] [ 8 ] [ 9 ] [ 10 ] [ 11 ] [ 12 ] [ 13 ] [ 14 ] [ 15 ]  It was number 48 on  American Film Institute 's  100 Years... 100 Movies , a list of the greatest American films of all time, dropping down to number 56 on the  10 Year Anniversary list . It ranked second on a similar list for thrillers,  100 Years... 100 Thrills  and was number one on  Bravo 's list of  The 100 Scariest Movie Moments . [ 16 ]  The film was followed by three sequels, none with the participation of Spielberg or Benchley. A video game titled  Jaws Unleashed  was produced in 2006.
Plot During a late night beach party on the fictional Amity Island in  New England , a 23-year-old woman named Chrissie Watkins ( Susan Backlinie ) goes  skinny dipping  only to be dragged under by an unseen force. Amity's new police chief, Martin Brody ( Roy Scheider ), is notified that Chrissie is missing, and deputy Lenny Hendricks ( Jeffrey Kramer ) finds her remains. The medical examiner informs Brody that the death was due to a shark attack. Brody plans to close the beaches but is overruled by town mayor Larry Vaughn ( Murray Hamilton ), who fears that reports of a shark attack will ruin the summer tourist season. The medical examiner reverses his diagnosis and attributes the death to a boating accident. Brody reluctantly goes along with the explanation. A short time later, a boy named Alex Kintner (Jeffrey Voorhees) is brutally killed by a shark at the beach. The boy's mother (Lee Fierro) places a  bounty  on the shark, sparking an amateur shark hunting frenzy and attracting the attention of local professional shark hunter Quint ( Robert Shaw ). Brought in by Brody,  ichthyologist  Matt Hooper ( Richard Dreyfuss ) examines Chrissie's remains and concludes she was killed by a shark. A large  tiger shark  is caught by a group of fishermen, leading the town to believe the problem is solved, but Hooper is unconvinced that the shark is the killer and asks to examine its stomach contents. Vaughn refuses to make the "operation" public, so Brody and Hooper return after dark and discover the dead shark does not contain human remains. Scouting aboard Hooper's boat, they come across the half-sunken wreckage of a boat belonging to local fisherman Ben Gardener. Hooper explores the vessel underwater and discovers a sizeable shark's tooth, and also Gardener's severed head, which makes him drop the tooth in a panic. Vaughn refuses to close the beaches, and on the Fourth of July numerous tourists arrive. A prank by two boys causes panic, before the real shark enters an  estuary , kills a man and causes Brody's son go into shock after witnessing it. Brody forces Vaughn to hire Quint. Brody and Hooper join the hunter on his fishing boat, the Orca , and the trio set out to kill the shark. Brody is given the task of laying a  chum  line while Quint uses deepsea fishing tackle to try to hook the shark. As Brody continues chumming, an enormous  great white shark  looms up behind the boat; the trio watch the great white circle the  Orca  and estimate it weighs 3 short tons (2.7 t) and is 25 feet (7.6 m) long. Quint harpoons the shark with a line attached to a flotation barrel, designed to prevent the shark from submerging and to track it on the surface, but the shark pulls the barrel under and disappears. Night falls without another sighting, so the men retire to the boat's cabin, where Quint tells of his experience with sharks as a survivor of the World War II sinking of the  USS  Indianapolis . The shark reappears, damaging the boat's hull before slipping away. In the morning, the men make repairs to the engine. Attempting to call the  Coast Guard  for help, Brody is stopped by Quint, who destroys the radio with a baseball bat. The shark attacks again, and after a long chase Quint harpoons another barrel to it. The men tie the barrels to the stern, but the shark drags the boat backwards, forcing water onto the deck and into the engine, flooding it. Quint harpoons the shark again, adding a third barrel, while the shark continues towing them. Quint is about to cut the ropes with his machete when the cleats are pulled off the stern. The shark continues attacking the boat and Quint heads toward shore with the shark in pursuit, hoping to draw the animal into shallow waters, where it will be beached and drown. In his obsession to kill the shark, Quint overtaxes  Orca' s engine, causing it to seize. With the boat immobilized, the trio try a desperate approach: Hooper dons his SCUBA gear and enters the ocean inside a  shark proof cage  in order to stab the shark in the mouth with a hypodermic spear filled with  strychnine . The shark destroys the cage but gets tangled in the remains, allowing Hooper to hide on the seabed. As Quint and Brody raise the remnants of the cage, the shark throws itself onto the boat, crushing the  transom . As the boat sinks, Quint slides down the slippery deck into the shark's mouth and is eaten alive. Brody retreats to the boat's partly submerged cabin. When the shark attacks him there, he shoves a pressurized air tank into the shark's mouth, then takes Quint's  M1 Garand  and climbs the  Orca' s mast. Brody begins shooting at the air tank wedged in the shark's mouth, causing it to explode and blow the shark to pieces. As the shark's carcass drifts toward the seabed, Hooper reappears on the surface. The survivors briefly lament the loss of Quint, then cobble together a raft from debris and paddle to Amity Island. [ edit ] Cast Roy Scheider  as (Chief) Martin Brody
Robert Shaw  as Sam Quint
Richard Dreyfuss  as Matt Hooper
Lorraine Gary  as Ellen Brody
Murray Hamilton  as (Mayor) Larry Vaughn
Carl Gottlieb  as Meadows
Jeffrey Kramer  as Leonard "Lenny" Hendricks
Susan Backlinie  as Christine "Chrissie" Watkins
Jonathan Filley as Tom Cassidy
Ted Grossman as ( Estuary  Victim)
Chris Rebello as Michael Brody
Jay Mello as Sean Brody
Lee Fierro as Mrs. Kintner
Jeffrey Voorhees as Alex M. Kintner
Craig Kingsbury as Ben Gardner
Dr. Robert Nevin as (Medical Examiner)
Peter Benchley  as (Interviewer)
[ edit ] Production [ edit ] Development Richard D. Zanuck  and  David Brown , producers at  Universal Pictures , heard about Peter Benchley's  novel  at the same time at different locations. Brown came across it in the fiction department of  Cosmopolitan , a lifestyle magazine then edited by his wife,  Helen Gurley Brown . A small card gave a detailed description of the plot, concluding with the comment "might make a good movie". [ 17 ]  The producers each read it overnight and agreed the next morning that it was "the most exciting thing that they had ever read" and that, although they were unsure how they would accomplish it, they wanted to produce the film. [ 18 ]  Brown claimed that had they read the book twice they would have never have made the film because of the difficulties in executing some of the sequences. [ 19 ]  They purchased the film rights to Benchley's novel in 1973 for approximately $175,000. [ 20 ] Zanuck and Brown had originally planned to hire  John Sturges  to direct the film, before considering  Dick Richards . [ 21 ]  However, they grew irritated by Richards' habit of calling the shark "the whale"; Richards was subsequently dropped from the project. [ 21 ]  Zanuck and Brown then signed Spielberg in June 1973 to direct before the release of his first theatrical film,  The Sugarland Express  (also a Zanuck/Brown production). [ 21 ]  Spielberg wanted to take the novel's basic concept, removing Benchley's many  subplots . [ 20 ]  Zanuck, Brown and Spielberg removed the novel's adulterous affair between Ellen Brody and Matt Hooper because it would compromise the camaraderie between the men when they went out on the  Orca . [ 17 ] When they purchased the rights to his novel, the producers guaranteed that the author would write the first draft of the  screenplay . Overall, Benchley wrote three drafts before deciding to bow out of the project (although he appeared in the final film, a cameo appearance as a news reporter). [ 20 ]  Tony and Pulitzer Prize-winning playwright  Howard Sackler  happened to be in Los Angeles when the filmmakers began looking for another writer and offered to do an uncredited rewrite, and since the producers and Spielberg were unhappy with Benchley's drafts, they quickly accepted his offer. [ 22 ]  Spielberg sent the script to  Carl Gottlieb  (who appears in a  supporting acting  role in the film as Meadows, the politically connected editor of the local paper), asking for advice. [ 22 ]  Gottlieb rewrote most scenes during principal photography, and  John Milius  contributed dialogue polishes. Spielberg has claimed that he prepared his own draft, although it is unclear if the other screenwriters drew on his material. The authorship of Quint's monologue about the fate of the cruiser  USS  Indianapolis  has caused substantial controversy as to who deserves the most credit for the speech. Spielberg described it as a collaboration among John Milius, Howard Sackler, and actor Robert Shaw. [ 23 ]  Gottlieb gives primary credit to Shaw, downplaying Milius' contribution. [ 24 ] [ edit ] Casting Spielberg offered the role of Brody to  Robert Duvall , but the actor was only interested in portraying Quint. [ 25 ]  According to Spielberg,  Charlton Heston  expressed a desire for the role, but Spielberg felt that Heston was too large a personality, as Spielberg intended the film's primary "star" to be the shark. [ 26 ]  Roy Scheider became interested in the project after overhearing a screenwriter and Spielberg at a party talking about having the shark jump up onto a boat. [ 22 ]  Spielberg was initially apprehensive of hiring Scheider, fearing he would portray a "tough guy", similar to his role in  The French Connection . [ 25 ] The role of Quint was originally offered to actors  Lee Marvin  and  Sterling Hayden , both of whom passed. [ 22 ] [ 25 ]  Producers Zanuck and Brown had just finished working with Robert Shaw on  The Sting , and suggested him to Spielberg as a possible Quint. For the role of Hooper, Spielberg initially wanted  Jon Voight . [ 27 ]  Richard Dreyfuss initially passed on the role of Matt Hooper, but after being disappointed by his own performance in a pre-release screening of  The Apprenticeship of Duddy Kravitz , a film he had just completed, he immediately called Spielberg and accepted the role, fearing that no one would want to hire him once  Kravitz  was released. Due to the film's dissimilarities to the novel, Spielberg asked Dreyfuss not to read the book before offering the role. [ 28 ]  The first person actually cast for the film was Lorraine Gary, the wife of then-studio chief, Sid Sheinberg. [ 22 ] [ edit ] Filming "We started the film without a script, without a cast and without a shark." —actor  Richard Dreyfuss  on the film's troubled production [ 29 ] Principal photography  began in May 1974. [ 30 ]  Three mechanical sharks were made for the production: a full version for underwater shots, one that moved from camera-left to right (with its hidden side completely exposing the internal machinery), and an opposite model with its right flank uncovered. [ 20 ]  Their construction was supervised by production designer  Joe Alves  (who went on to direct  Jaws 3-D  in 1983) and special effects artist Bob Mattey. After the sharks were completed, they were shipped to the shooting location, but had only been tested in controlled conditions in a pool. The platform used to tow the two "side model" sharks capsized as it was being lowered to the ocean floor, forcing a team of divers to retrieve it. [ 22 ]  The model required 14 operators to control all of the moving parts. [ 28 ] Location shooting occurred on the island of  Martha's Vineyard ,  Massachusetts , chosen because the ocean had a sandy bottom 12 miles (19 km) out at sea and never dropped below thirty-five feet. [ 22 ]  This helped the mechanical sharks to operate smoothly and still provide a realistic location. The film nonetheless had a troubled shoot and went considerably over budget. David Brown said that the budget "was $4 million and the picture wound up costing $9 million". [ 31 ]  Shooting at sea led to many delays: unwanted sailboats drifted into frame, cameras got soaked, and the  Orca  once began to sink with the actors onboard. The mechanical shark frequently malfunctioned, due to the hydraulic innards being corroded by salt water. [ 22 ]  The three mechanical sharks were collectively nicknamed "Bruce" by the production team after Spielberg's lawyer, Bruce Raimer. [ 32 ]  Disgruntled crew members gave the film the nickname "Flaws". [ 28 ] [ 32 ] Bruce, the full model mechanical shark, attached to special rigging To some degree, the delays in the production proved serendipitous. The script was refined during production, and the unreliable mechanical sharks forced Spielberg to shoot most of the scenes with the shark only hinted at. For example, for much of the shark hunt, its location is represented by the floating yellow barrels. Spielberg also included multiple shots of just the dorsal fin due to its ease of filming. This forced restraint is widely thought to have increased the suspense of these scenes, giving it a  Hitchcockian  tone. [ 28 ] [ 33 ] The scene where Hooper discovers fisherman Ben Gardner's head in the  hull  of his wrecked boat was added after an initial screening of the film. After reactions to that screening, Spielberg said he was greedy for "one more scream" and, with $3,000 of his own money, financed the scene after he was denied funding from Universal Pictures. [ 22 ]  Actor Craig Kingsbury had to press his head into a latex mold to make an exact copy, which was then attached to a fake body and placed in the wrecked boat's hull. The underwater scene was shot in film editor Verna Fields' swimming pool. Footage of real sharks was shot by  Ron and Valerie Taylor  in the waters off Australia, with a dwarf actor in a miniature shark cage to create the illusion that the shark was enormous. [ 22 ] [ 34 ]  Originally, the script, following the novel, had the shark killing Hooper in the shark cage, but during filming one of the sharks became trapped in the girdle of the cage and proceeded to tear the cage apart. [ 22 ]  The crew found the footage of this incident to be so visually stunning, they were eager to incorporate it into the final film. [ 26 ]  However, no one had been in the cage at the time, so the script was changed to have Matt Hooper escape, thus providing an explanation for the empty cage. [ 22 ] [ 26 ] Although filming was scheduled to take 55 days, it eventually ended in September 1974 after 159 days. [ 28 ] [ 30 ]  Spielberg, reflecting on the extended delay, stated: "I thought my career as a filmmaker was over. I heard rumors ... that I would never work again because no one had ever taken a film 100 days over schedule." [ 28 ]  Spielberg himself was not present for the shooting of the final scene where the shark explodes. He believed that the crew were planning to throw him in the water when this scene was complete. It has since become a tradition for Spielberg to be absent when the final scene of a film he directs is being filmed. [ 35 ] A fourth shark model was built months after the original three were built. It was later placed at the entrance to the Universal Studios Theme Park until it was removed in 1990. It was recovered at a Sun Valley junkyard in June 2010, with Alves and Arbogast confirming its authenticity. [ 36 ] [ 37 ] [ edit ] Reception [ edit ] Box office performance Jaws  was the first film to successfully use "wide release" as a distribution pattern. As such, it is an important film in the history of film distribution and marketing. [ 38 ]  Prior to the release of  Jaws , films typically opened slowly, usually in a few theaters in major cities, which allowed for a series of "premieres." As the success of a film increased, and word of mouth grew, distributors would forward the prints to additional cities across the country. Some films eventually achieved a wide release, such as  The Godfather , but even that blockbuster had originally debuted in just five theaters. [ 39 ] Jaws  was the first film to successfully open nationwide on hundreds of screens simultaneously, coupled with a national marketing campaign—a then-unheard of practice. (A month earlier, Columbia had done the same with a  Charles Bronson  thriller,  Breakout , but the box office was middling at best.) The film became the first to use extensive television advertising. [ 40 ]  The media blitz "included approximately twenty-five thirty-second advertisements per night on prime-time network TV" between 18–20 June 1975. [ 38 ]  Universal executive  Sidney Sheinberg 's rationale was that nationwide marketing costs would be amortized at a more favorable rate per print than if a slow, scaled release were carried out. Sheinberg's gamble paid off, with  Jaws  becoming a box office smash hit and the father of the summer  blockbuster . [ 41 ] [ 42 ] After the release of  Jaws , journalists and critics detailed its impact on how films were released in theaters.  Peter Biskind  wrote, "[The film] diminish[ed] the importance of print reviews, making it virtually impossible for a film to build slowly, finding its audience by dint of mere quality. ... In a sense, Spielberg was the Trojan horse through which the studios began to reassert their power." [ 43 ]  Author Thomas Schatz also wrote on the film's impact: "If any single film marked the arrival of the New Hollywood, it was  Jaws , the Spielberg-directed thriller that recalibrated the profit potential of the Hollywood hit, and redefined its status as a marketable commodity and cultural phenomenon as well. The film brought an emphatic end to Hollywood's five-year recession, while ushering in an era of high-cost, high-tech, high-speed thrillers." [ 43 ] Following the success of  Jaws , major studio films have almost universally been distributed and marketed on a national scale. In addition, when summer was usually a season to dump films likely to be poor performers, the success of  Jaws  caused studios to shift their action and thriller films out of winter releases. [ 43 ] When  Jaws  was released on June 20, 1975, it opened at 464 theaters. [ 44 ]  The release was subsequently expanded on July 25 to a total of 675 theaters, the largest simultaneous distribution of a film in motion picture history at the time. During the first weekend of wide release, Jaws  grossed more than $7 million, and was the top grosser for the following five weeks. [ 45 ]  During its run in theaters, the film beat the $89 million domestic rental record of the reigning box-office champion,  The Exorcist , becoming the first film to reach more than $100 million in U.S. box office receipts. [ 40 ] [ 46 ] Jaws  eventually grossed more than $470 million worldwide ($1.9 billion in 2010 dollars [ 47 ] ) and was the highest grossing box office film until Star Wars  debuted two years later. [ 48 ] [ 49 ]  It is currently the 92nd highest grossing film of all time. [ 49 ]   Jaws  and  Star Wars  are retrospectively considered to have marked the beginning of the new business model in  American filmmaking  and the beginning of the end of the  New Hollywood  period. [ edit ] Critical reception The film received near-universal acclaim. It holds a rare 100% "Fresh" rating on the review aggregate website  Rotten Tomatoes . [ 50 ]  In his original review,  Roger Ebert  called it "a sensationally effective action picture, a scary thriller that works all the better because it's populated with characters that have been developed into human beings". [ 51 ]   Variety ' s A.D. Murphy praised Spielberg's directorial skills, and called Robert Shaw's performance "absolutely magnificent". [ 52 ]   Pauline Kael  called it "the most cheerfully perverse scare movie ever made... [with] more zest than an early  Woody Allen  picture, a lot more electricity, [and] it's funny in a Woody Allen sort of way". [ 53 ]   Frank Rich  of  The New York Times  wrote "Spielberg is blessed with a talent that is absurdly absent from most American filmmakers these days: this man actually knows how to tell a story on screen. ... It speaks well of this director's gifts that some of the most frightening sequences in  Jaws  are those where we don't even see the shark. [ 54 ] The film was not without its detractors.  Vincent Canby , of  The New York Times , said "It's a measure of how the film operates that not once do we feel particular sympathy for any of the shark's victims...In the best films, characters are revealed in terms of the action. In movies like Jaws , characters are simply functions of the action. They're at its service. Characters are like stage hands who move props around and deliver information when it's necessary", but also noted that "It's the sort of nonsense that can be a good deal of fun". [ 55 ]   Los Angeles Times  critic Charles Champlin  disagreed with the film's PG rating, saying that " Jaws  is too gruesome for children, and likely to turn the stomach of the impressionable at any age." He goes on to say: "It is a coarse-grained and exploitative work which depends on excess for its impact. Ashore it is a bore, awkwardly staged and lumpily written." [ 56 ]  The most widespread criticism of the film is the artificiality of the mechanical shark. [ 57 ] In 2010, criticism surfaced from an unexpected quarter — conservationists. They credit the film with the "Jaws" effect, which inspired "legions of fishermen [who] piled into boats and killed thousands of the ocean predators in shark-fishing tournaments," thereby hastening the likely extinction of shark species. [ 58 ] [ edit ] Accolades Jaws  won  Academy Awards  for  Best Film Editing ,  Best Original Score  and  Best Sound . [ 59 ]  It was also nominated for  Best Picture , losing to One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest . [ 60 ]  In 2008,  Jaws  was selected by  Empire  magazine as the fifth greatest film ever made. [ 61 ]  Quint was also placed at #50 on  Empire's  list of  The 100 Greatest Movie Characters of All Time . [ 62 ]  In 2003,  The New York Times  included the film on its list of the best 1000 movies ever made. [ 63 ]  In 2010,  Total Film  selected the film as one of  The 100 Greatest Movies of All Time . [ 64 ]   Jaws was number 48 on  American Film Institute 's  100 Years... 100 Movies , a list of the greatest American films of all time, dropping down to number 56 on the  10 Year Anniversary list . [ 65 ]  It was ranked second on a similar list for thrillers,  100 Years... 100 Thrills . [ 66 ]   Jaws  was number one in the  Bravo  network's five-hour miniseries  The 100 Scariest Movie Moments  (2004). [ 67 ]  Similarly, the  Chicago Film Critics Association  named it the 6th scariest film ever made. [ 68 ]  The shark was anointed number 18 on AFI's  100 Years... 100 Heroes and Villains . [ 69 ]  In 2001, the United States Library of Congress deemed the film "culturally significant" and selected it for preservation in the National Film Registry . [ 70 ]  In 2005, the American Film Institute voted Roy Scheider's line "You're gonna need a bigger boat" as number 35 on its list of the  top 100 movie quotes . [ 71 ]   John Williams 's score was ranked at number six on AFI's  100 Years of Film Scores . [ 72 ]  In 2006, the screenplay of  Jaws  was selected by the  Writers Guild of America  as the 63rd best screenplay of all time. [ 73 ] [ edit ] Inspirations and influences "JAWS" on display at Universal Studios Florida Jaws  bears similarities to several literary and artistic works, most notably  Moby-Dick  by  Herman Melville . The character of Quint strongly resembles  Captain Ahab , the obsessed captain of the  Pequod  who devotes his life to hunting a  sperm whale . Quint's monologue reveals his similar vendetta against sharks, and even his boat, the  Orca , is named after  the only natural enemy of the white shark . In the novel and original screenplay, Quint dies after being dragged under the ocean by a harpoon tied to his leg, similar to Ahab's death in Melville's novel. [ 74 ]  A direct reference to these similarities may be found in the original screenplay, which introduced Quint by showing him watching the  film version of  Moby-Dick . [ 75 ]  His laughter throughout makes people get up and leave the theater ( Wesley Strick 's screenplay for  Cape Fear  features a similar scene). However, the scene from  Moby-Dick  could not be licensed from  Gregory Peck , the owner of the rights. [ 76 ]  In the novel and original screenplay, when the  Orca , like the  Pequod , is sunk by the creature, only the character of Brody survives. There is, however, a scene in which the shark rapidly tows the  Orca , which is obviously indebted to the "Nantucket sleigh ride" scene in  Moby-Dick . Some have also noticed the influences of two 1950s horror films,  The Creature from the Black Lagoon  and  The Monster That Challenged the World . [ 77 ] Critics such as Neil Sinyard have noticed similarities to  Henrik Ibsen 's play  An Enemy of the People . [ 78 ] The Ibsen work features a doctor who discovers that a seaside town's medicinal hot springs, a major tourist attraction and form of revenue, are contaminated. When the doctor attempts to convince the townspeople of the danger, he loses his job and is shunned. This plotline is paralleled in  Jaws  by Brody's conflict with Mayor Vaughn, who refuses to acknowledge the presence of a shark that may dissuade summer beachgoers from coming to Amity. In the film, Brody is vindicated when more shark attacks occur at the crowded beach in broad daylight. Sinyard calls the film a "deft combination of Watergate and Ibsen's play". [ 78 ] Jaws  was a key film in establishing the benefits of a wide national release backed by heavy media advertising, rather than a progressive release that let a film slowly enter new markets and build support over a period of time. [ 79 ]  Rather than let the film gain notice by word-of-mouth, Hollywood launched a successful television marketing campaign for the film, which added another $700,000 to the cost. [ 29 ] Similar to the fear of showers created by the pivotal scene in the 1960 film  Psycho ,  Jaws  caused many viewers to be afraid to enter the ocean. [ 80 ] [ 81 ]  The film was credited with reduced beach attendance in the summer of 1975. [ 57 ] Although it is considered a thriller-horror classic, the film is widely recognized as being responsible for perpetuating negative stereotypes about sharks and their behavior. [ 82 ]  Author Peter Benchley stated that he would not have written the original novel had he known what sharks are really like in the wild. [ 83 ]  Benchley later wrote  Shark Trouble , a non-fiction book about shark behavior, and  Shark Life , another non-fiction book describing his dives with sharks. Conservation groups have bemoaned the fact that the film has made it considerably harder to convince the public that sharks should be protected. [ 84 ] Jaws  set the template for many future horror films, so much so that the script for  Ridley Scott 's 1979 science fiction film  Alien  was pitched to studio executives with one tag line: " Jaws  in space." [ 85 ] [ edit ] Music John Williams  contributed the  film score , which was ranked sixth on the  American Film Institute 's  100 Years of Film Scores . The main "shark" theme, a simple alternating pattern of two  notes , E and F, [ 86 ]  became a classic piece of suspense music, synonymous with approaching danger (see  leading-tone ). Williams described the theme as having the "effect of grinding away at you, just as a shark would do, instinctual, relentless, unstoppable." [ 87 ]  The soundtrack piece was performed by tuba player  Tommy Johnson . When asked by Johnson why the melody was written in such a high register and not played by the more appropriate French horn, Williams responded that he wanted it to sound "a little more threatening". [ 88 ]  When the piece was first played for Spielberg, he was said to have laughed at Williams, thinking that it was a joke. Spielberg later said that without Williams' score the film would have been only half as successful, and Williams acknowledges that the score jumpstarted his career. [ 22 ]  He had previously scored Spielberg's feature film debut  The Sugarland Express  and went on to collaborate with him on almost all of his films. [ 87 ] The score contains echoes of  Igor Stravinsky 's  The Rite of Spring , particularly the opening of "The Adoration of the Earth" and "Auguries of Spring". [ 89 ]  The music has drawn comparisons to  Bernard Herrman 's score for  Alfred Hitchcock 's  Psycho  and the ominous music for the off-screen hunter in  Bambi , in which the music enhances the presence of an unseen terror, in this case the shark. [ 90 ] There are various interpretations of the meaning and effectiveness of the theme. Some have thought the two-note expression is intended to mimic the shark's heartbeat, beginning slow and controlled as the killer hunts and rising to a frenzied, shrieking climax as it approaches its prey. [ 91 ]  Others have stated that the music at first sounds like the creaking and groaning of a boat, and therefore is inaudible when it begins so that it never seems to start, but simply rises out of the sounds of the film. One critic believes the true strength of the score is its ability to create a "harsh silence", abruptly cutting away from the music right before it climaxes. [ 90 ]  Furthermore, the audience is conditioned to associate the shark with its theme, since the score is never used as a  red herring . [ 87 ]  It only plays when the real shark appears. This is later exploited when the shark suddenly appears with no musical introduction. Regardless of the meaning behind it, the theme is widely acknowledged as one of the most recognized scores of all time. [ 57 ] The  original soundtrack for  Jaws  was released by MCA in 1975, and as a CD in 1992, including roughly a half hour of music that John Williams redid for the album. In 2000, two versions of the score were released: one in a re-recording of the entire  Jaws  score performed by the Royal Scottish National Orchestra  and conducted by  Joel McNeely ; and another to coincide with the release of the 25th anniversary DVD by Decca/Universal, featuring the entire 51 minutes of the original score. Many fans prefer the Decca release over the Varèse Sarabande re-recording. [ 92 ] [ edit ] Releases, sequels and merchandise Universal "devised and co-ordinated a highly innovative plan" for the first film's distribution and exhibition. [ 38 ]  The studio and publisher Bantam designed a logo which would appear on both the paperback and on all film advertising. "Both publisher and distributor recognized the mutual benefits that a joint promotion strategy would bring." [ 38 ]  Producers Zanuck and Brown toured six cities to promote the paperback and the film. [ 38 ]  Once the film was released, more merchandising was created, including shark-illustrated swimming towels and T-shirts, plastic shark fins for swimmers to wear, and shark-shaped inflatables for them to float on. The  Ideal Toy Company  produced a  game  where the player had to use a hook to fish out items from the shark's mouth before the jaws closed. [ 93 ] The first  Laserdisc  title marketed in North America was the MCA  DiscoVision  release of  Jaws  in 1978. A second Laserdisc was released in 1991, before a third and final release came under the MCA/Universal Home Video's "Signature Collection" imprint in 1995. This release was an elaborate boxset, which included the film, along with deleted scenes and outtakes, a new two-hour documentary on the making of the film, a copy of the novel  Jaws , and a CD of John Williams' soundtrack. A year after its  MCA DiscoVision  release, it returned to theaters for a special 2 week limited engagement. It was also released on VHS by MCA Home Video in the mid-80s and in 1995 by MCA Universal Home Video as a Collector's Edition featuring a Making-of retrospective. MCA Universal Home Video released it on VHS again in 1997 as a THX-certified Special Widescreen Edition featuring a 10-minute special introduction at the beginning of the tape which was shown previously on the 1995 VHS. [ 94 ] Jaws  was first released on DVD in 2000 for the film's 25th anniversary. It featured a 50-minute documentary on the making of the film (an edited version of the one featured on the 1995 laserdisc release), with interviews from Steven Spielberg, Roy Scheider, Richard Dreyfuss, Peter Benchley and other cast and crew members. Other extras included deleted scenes, outtakes, trailers, production photos, and storyboards. [ 94 ]  In June 2005, on the 30th anniversary of the film's release, a festival named JawsFest was held in  Martha's Vineyard . [ 95 ]   Jaws was then re-released on DVD, this time including the full two-hour documentary produced by Laurent Bouzereau for the LaserDisc. As well as containing most of the same bonus features the previous DVD contained, it included a previously unavailable interview with Spielberg conducted on the set of  Jaws  in 1974. [ 96 ] In the 2000s, an independent group of fans produced a feature length documentary.  The Shark is Still Working  features interviews with a range of cast and crew from the film, and some from the sequels. It is narrated by Roy Scheider and dedicated to Peter Benchley who died in 2006. [ 97 ] [ 98 ] The film spawned three sequels, all of which failed to match the success of the original. Indeed, their combined domestic grosses barely cover half of the original's. [ 45 ]  Spielberg was unavailable to do a sequel, as he was working on  Close Encounters of the Third Kind  with Richard Dreyfuss. [ 60 ]   Jaws 2  was directed by  Jeannot Szwarc ; Roy Scheider, Lorraine Gary and Murray Hamilton reprised their roles from the original film. It is generally regarded as the best of the sequels. The next film,  Jaws 3-D , directed by Joe Alves, was released in the  3-D format, although the effect did not transfer to television or home video, where it was renamed  Jaws 3 .  Dennis Quaid  as Michael Brody and Louis Gossett, Jr.  starred in the movie.  Jaws: The Revenge , directed by  Joseph Sargent , featured the return of Lorraine Gary and is considered one of the  worst movies ever made . [ 99 ] [ 100 ]  While all three sequels made a profit at the box office ( Jaws 2  and  Jaws 3-D  are among the top 20 highest-grossing films of their respective years), critics and audiences were generally dissatisfied with the films. [ 101 ] [ 102 ] [ 103 ] In February 2010, film website  Cinema Blend  reported that a source from Universal Pictures has indicated that Universal is "strongly considering" remaking  Jaws  in  3-D , following the commercial success of  Avatar . [ 104 ]  The source also reported that  30 Rock  star  Tracy Morgan  was considered to portray Matt Hooper in the remake, which they say could be more comedic and make more use of special effects. [ 105 ]  The studio has not officially commented upon the rumor. [ 106 ] [ 107 ]  Aristocrat made an officially licensed slot machine based on the movie. [ edit ] Adaptations
The film has been adapted into two video games, two  theme park rides  at  Universal Studios Florida  and  Universal Studios Japan , [ 108 ] [ 109 ]  and two musicals:  JAWS The Musical! , which premiered in the summer of 2004 at the Minnesota Fringe Festival; and  Giant Killer Shark: The Musical , which premiered in the summer of 2006 at the  Toronto Fringe Festival
Posted in:
Top Movies Wiki
Email This
BlogThis!
Share to Twitter
Share to Facebook
Newer Post
Older Post
Home
0
comments:
Post a Comment
Blogger templates
Popular Posts
1st look of Poonam Pandey Gladrags Calendar 2011
1st look of Poonam Pandey Gladrags Calendar 2011
Exclusive GLADRAGS Calendar 2011 Picture of Poonam Pandey the Most Downloaded model on...
Monica Bellucci sexy
Monica Bellucci at the Festival di San Remo 2011 (Photos) The beautiful Monica Bellucci was interviewed along with Robert DeNiro during the...
hot Poonam Pandey
hot Poonam Pandey
View Model and Kingfisher Calender Girl 2011 Poonam Pandey Wallpaper
Blogroll
Categories
Bollywood Celebrity (Male)
(96)
Canadian actors
(15)
Canadian actress
(4)
Celebrity in news
(2)
celebrity news
(31)
chanakya
(3)
Chhavi Rajawat
(157)
Chinese actresses
(12)
country wikipedia
(167)
Cricket
(11)
Cricket News
(24)
Dalai Lama
(105)
Drew Barrymore
(17)
Fagun Thakrar
(17)
feamous celebrity
(163)
Global News
(9)
golf players celebrity
(26)
hollywood actress
(336)
hollywood singer
(40)
Hot News india
(10)
Igor Sechin
(18)
indian celebrity
(14)
indian cricket team celebrity
(27)
Indian film actresses (celebrity)
(106)
indian singers
(1)
Italian actresses
(40)
kate middleton
(90)
Minissha Lamba
(1)
miss universe list
(31)
Monica Bellucci
(168)
Natalie Glebova
(60)
Oxana Fedorova
(25)
poonam pandey
(142)
powerfull
celebrity
(65)
Religious Leader
(25)
Richest Celebrity Person
(8)
sachin tendulkar
(333)
Shahid Afridi
(11)
Silvio Berlusconi
(76)
sonia gandhi
(19)
sports celebrity
(43)
The World's Billionaires wikipedia
(4)
Tom Hanks
(7)
Top Movies Wiki
(284)
Vladimir Vladimirovich Putin
(2)
world leader (celebrity)
(47)
Yuvraj Singh
(59)
Zaheer Khan
(5)
Zarine Khan
(349)
Powered by
Blogger .
Links
www.Celebwikipedia.blogspot.com
wikipedia
About me
Wikipedia
View my complete profile
Followers
Pages
Home
Friday, January 21, 2011
Jaws (film)
Jaws  is a 1975 American  thriller film  directed by  Steven Spielberg  and based on  Peter Benchley 's  novel of the same name . The police chief of Amity Island, a fictional summer resort town, tries to protect beachgoers from a giant man-eating  great white shark  by closing the beach, only to be overruled by the town council, which wants the beach to remain open to draw a profit from tourists during the summer season. After several attacks, the police chief enlists the help of a  marine biologist  and a professional shark hunter.  Roy Scheider  stars as police chief Martin Brody,  Richard Dreyfuss  as marine biologist Matt Hooper,  Robert Shaw  as shark hunter Quint,  Murray Hamilton  as the Mayor of Amity Island, and  Lorraine Gary  as Brody's wife, Ellen. Jaws  is regarded as a watershed film in motion picture history, the father of the summer blockbuster film  and one of the first " high concept " films. [ 1 ] [ 2 ]  Due to the film's success in advance screenings, studio executives decided to distribute it in a much wider release than ever before.  The Omen  followed suit in the summer of 1976 and then  Star Wars  one year later in 1977, cementing the notion for movie studios to distribute their big-release action and adventure pictures (commonly referred to as  tentpole pictures ) during the summer.  Jaws  is widely regarded as one of  the greatest films of all time . [ 3 ] [ 4 ] [ 5 ] [ 6 ] [ 7 ] [ 8 ] [ 9 ] [ 10 ] [ 11 ] [ 12 ] [ 13 ] [ 14 ] [ 15 ]  It was number 48 on  American Film Institute 's  100 Years... 100 Movies , a list of the greatest American films of all time, dropping down to number 56 on the  10 Year Anniversary list . It ranked second on a similar list for thrillers,  100 Years... 100 Thrills  and was number one on  Bravo 's list of  The 100 Scariest Movie Moments . [ 16 ]  The film was followed by three sequels, none with the participation of Spielberg or Benchley. A video game titled  Jaws Unleashed  was produced in 2006.
Plot During a late night beach party on the fictional Amity Island in  New England , a 23-year-old woman named Chrissie Watkins ( Susan Backlinie ) goes  skinny dipping  only to be dragged under by an unseen force. Amity's new police chief, Martin Brody ( Roy Scheider ), is notified that Chrissie is missing, and deputy Lenny Hendricks ( Jeffrey Kramer ) finds her remains. The medical examiner informs Brody that the death was due to a shark attack. Brody plans to close the beaches but is overruled by town mayor Larry Vaughn ( Murray Hamilton ), who fears that reports of a shark attack will ruin the summer tourist season. The medical examiner reverses his diagnosis and attributes the death to a boating accident. Brody reluctantly goes along with the explanation. A short time later, a boy named Alex Kintner (Jeffrey Voorhees) is brutally killed by a shark at the beach. The boy's mother (Lee Fierro) places a  bounty  on the shark, sparking an amateur shark hunting frenzy and attracting the attention of local professional shark hunter Quint ( Robert Shaw ). Brought in by Brody,  ichthyologist  Matt Hooper ( Richard Dreyfuss ) examines Chrissie's remains and concludes she was killed by a shark. A large  tiger shark  is caught by a group of fishermen, leading the town to believe the problem is solved, but Hooper is unconvinced that the shark is the killer and asks to examine its stomach contents. Vaughn refuses to make the "operation" public, so Brody and Hooper return after dark and discover the dead shark does not contain human remains. Scouting aboard Hooper's boat, they come across the half-sunken wreckage of a boat belonging to local fisherman Ben Gardener. Hooper explores the vessel underwater and discovers a sizeable shark's tooth, and also Gardener's severed head, which makes him drop the tooth in a panic. Vaughn refuses to close the beaches, and on the Fourth of July numerous tourists arrive. A prank by two boys causes panic, before the real shark enters an  estuary , kills a man and causes Brody's son go into shock after witnessing it. Brody forces Vaughn to hire Quint. Brody and Hooper join the hunter on his fishing boat, the Orca , and the trio set out to kill the shark. Brody is given the task of laying a  chum  line while Quint uses deepsea fishing tackle to try to hook the shark. As Brody continues chumming, an enormous  great white shark  looms up behind the boat; the trio watch the great white circle the  Orca  and estimate it weighs 3 short tons (2.7 t) and is 25 feet (7.6 m) long. Quint harpoons the shark with a line attached to a flotation barrel, designed to prevent the shark from submerging and to track it on the surface, but the shark pulls the barrel under and disappears. Night falls without another sighting, so the men retire to the boat's cabin, where Quint tells of his experience with sharks as a survivor of the World War II sinking of the  USS  Indianapolis . The shark reappears, damaging the boat's hull before slipping away. In the morning, the men make repairs to the engine. Attempting to call the  Coast Guard  for help, Brody is stopped by Quint, who destroys the radio with a baseball bat. The shark attacks again, and after a long chase Quint harpoons another barrel to it. The men tie the barrels to the stern, but the shark drags the boat backwards, forcing water onto the deck and into the engine, flooding it. Quint harpoons the shark again, adding a third barrel, while the shark continues towing them. Quint is about to cut the ropes with his machete when the cleats are pulled off the stern. The shark continues attacking the boat and Quint heads toward shore with the shark in pursuit, hoping to draw the animal into shallow waters, where it will be beached and drown. In his obsession to kill the shark, Quint overtaxes  Orca' s engine, causing it to seize. With the boat immobilized, the trio try a desperate approach: Hooper dons his SCUBA gear and enters the ocean inside a  shark proof cage  in order to stab the shark in the mouth with a hypodermic spear filled with  strychnine . The shark destroys the cage but gets tangled in the remains, allowing Hooper to hide on the seabed. As Quint and Brody raise the remnants of the cage, the shark throws itself onto the boat, crushing the  transom . As the boat sinks, Quint slides down the slippery deck into the shark's mouth and is eaten alive. Brody retreats to the boat's partly submerged cabin. When the shark attacks him there, he shoves a pressurized air tank into the shark's mouth, then takes Quint's  M1 Garand  and climbs the  Orca' s mast. Brody begins shooting at the air tank wedged in the shark's mouth, causing it to explode and blow the shark to pieces. As the shark's carcass drifts toward the seabed, Hooper reappears on the surface. The survivors briefly lament the loss of Quint, then cobble together a raft from debris and paddle to Amity Island. [ edit ] Cast Roy Scheider  as (Chief) Martin Brody
Robert Shaw  as Sam Quint
Richard Dreyfuss  as Matt Hooper
Lorraine Gary  as Ellen Brody
Murray Hamilton  as (Mayor) Larry Vaughn
Carl Gottlieb  as Meadows
Jeffrey Kramer  as Leonard "Lenny" Hendricks
Susan Backlinie  as Christine "Chrissie" Watkins
Jonathan Filley as Tom Cassidy
Ted Grossman as ( Estuary  Victim)
Chris Rebello as Michael Brody
Jay Mello as Sean Brody
Lee Fierro as Mrs. Kintner
Jeffrey Voorhees as Alex M. Kintner
Craig Kingsbury as Ben Gardner
Dr. Robert Nevin as (Medical Examiner)
Peter Benchley  as (Interviewer)
[ edit ] Production [ edit ] Development Richard D. Zanuck  and  David Brown , producers at  Universal Pictures , heard about Peter Benchley's  novel  at the same time at different locations. Brown came across it in the fiction department of  Cosmopolitan , a lifestyle magazine then edited by his wife,  Helen Gurley Brown . A small card gave a detailed description of the plot, concluding with the comment "might make a good movie". [ 17 ]  The producers each read it overnight and agreed the next morning that it was "the most exciting thing that they had ever read" and that, although they were unsure how they would accomplish it, they wanted to produce the film. [ 18 ]  Brown claimed that had they read the book twice they would have never have made the film because of the difficulties in executing some of the sequences. [ 19 ]  They purchased the film rights to Benchley's novel in 1973 for approximately $175,000. [ 20 ] Zanuck and Brown had originally planned to hire  John Sturges  to direct the film, before considering  Dick Richards . [ 21 ]  However, they grew irritated by Richards' habit of calling the shark "the whale"; Richards was subsequently dropped from the project. [ 21 ]  Zanuck and Brown then signed Spielberg in June 1973 to direct before the release of his first theatrical film,  The Sugarland Express  (also a Zanuck/Brown production). [ 21 ]  Spielberg wanted to take the novel's basic concept, removing Benchley's many  subplots . [ 20 ]  Zanuck, Brown and Spielberg removed the novel's adulterous affair between Ellen Brody and Matt Hooper because it would compromise the camaraderie between the men when they went out on the  Orca . [ 17 ] When they purchased the rights to his novel, the producers guaranteed that the author would write the first draft of the  screenplay . Overall, Benchley wrote three drafts before deciding to bow out of the project (although he appeared in the final film, a cameo appearance as a news reporter). [ 20 ]  Tony and Pulitzer Prize-winning playwright  Howard Sackler  happened to be in Los Angeles when the filmmakers began looking for another writer and offered to do an uncredited rewrite, and since the producers and Spielberg were unhappy with Benchley's drafts, they quickly accepted his offer. [ 22 ]  Spielberg sent the script to  Carl Gottlieb  (who appears in a  supporting acting  role in the film as Meadows, the politically connected editor of the local paper), asking for advice. [ 22 ]  Gottlieb rewrote most scenes during principal photography, and  John Milius  contributed dialogue polishes. Spielberg has claimed that he prepared his own draft, although it is unclear if the other screenwriters drew on his material. The authorship of Quint's monologue about the fate of the cruiser  USS  Indianapolis  has caused substantial controversy as to who deserves the most credit for the speech. Spielberg described it as a collaboration among John Milius, Howard Sackler, and actor Robert Shaw. [ 23 ]  Gottlieb gives primary credit to Shaw, downplaying Milius' contribution. [ 24 ] [ edit ] Casting Spielberg offered the role of Brody to  Robert Duvall , but the actor was only interested in portraying Quint. [ 25 ]  According to Spielberg,  Charlton Heston  expressed a desire for the role, but Spielberg felt that Heston was too large a personality, as Spielberg intended the film's primary "star" to be the shark. [ 26 ]  Roy Scheider became interested in the project after overhearing a screenwriter and Spielberg at a party talking about having the shark jump up onto a boat. [ 22 ]  Spielberg was initially apprehensive of hiring Scheider, fearing he would portray a "tough guy", similar to his role in  The French Connection . [ 25 ] The role of Quint was originally offered to actors  Lee Marvin  and  Sterling Hayden , both of whom passed. [ 22 ] [ 25 ]  Producers Zanuck and Brown had just finished working with Robert Shaw on  The Sting , and suggested him to Spielberg as a possible Quint. For the role of Hooper, Spielberg initially wanted  Jon Voight . [ 27 ]  Richard Dreyfuss initially passed on the role of Matt Hooper, but after being disappointed by his own performance in a pre-release screening of  The Apprenticeship of Duddy Kravitz , a film he had just completed, he immediately called Spielberg and accepted the role, fearing that no one would want to hire him once  Kravitz  was released. Due to the film's dissimilarities to the novel, Spielberg asked Dreyfuss not to read the book before offering the role. [ 28 ]  The first person actually cast for the film was Lorraine Gary, the wife of then-studio chief, Sid Sheinberg. [ 22 ] [ edit ] Filming "We started the film without a script, without a cast and without a shark." —actor  Richard Dreyfuss  on the film's troubled production [ 29 ] Principal photography  began in May 1974. [ 30 ]  Three mechanical sharks were made for the production: a full version for underwater shots, one that moved from camera-left to right (with its hidden side completely exposing the internal machinery), and an opposite model with its right flank uncovered. [ 20 ]  Their construction was supervised by production designer  Joe Alves  (who went on to direct  Jaws 3-D  in 1983) and special effects artist Bob Mattey. After the sharks were completed, they were shipped to the shooting location, but had only been tested in controlled conditions in a pool. The platform used to tow the two "side model" sharks capsized as it was being lowered to the ocean floor, forcing a team of divers to retrieve it. [ 22 ]  The model required 14 operators to control all of the moving parts. [ 28 ] Location shooting occurred on the island of  Martha's Vineyard ,  Massachusetts , chosen because the ocean had a sandy bottom 12 miles (19 km) out at sea and never dropped below thirty-five feet. [ 22 ]  This helped the mechanical sharks to operate smoothly and still provide a realistic location. The film nonetheless had a troubled shoot and went considerably over budget. David Brown said that the budget "was $4 million and the picture wound up costing $9 million". [ 31 ]  Shooting at sea led to many delays: unwanted sailboats drifted into frame, cameras got soaked, and the  Orca  once began to sink with the actors onboard. The mechanical shark frequently malfunctioned, due to the hydraulic innards being corroded by salt water. [ 22 ]  The three mechanical sharks were collectively nicknamed "Bruce" by the production team after Spielberg's lawyer, Bruce Raimer. [ 32 ]  Disgruntled crew members gave the film the nickname "Flaws". [ 28 ] [ 32 ] Bruce, the full model mechanical shark, attached to special rigging To some degree, the delays in the production proved serendipitous. The script was refined during production, and the unreliable mechanical sharks forced Spielberg to shoot most of the scenes with the shark only hinted at. For example, for much of the shark hunt, its location is represented by the floating yellow barrels. Spielberg also included multiple shots of just the dorsal fin due to its ease of filming. This forced restraint is widely thought to have increased the suspense of these scenes, giving it a  Hitchcockian  tone. [ 28 ] [ 33 ] The scene where Hooper discovers fisherman Ben Gardner's head in the  hull  of his wrecked boat was added after an initial screening of the film. After reactions to that screening, Spielberg said he was greedy for "one more scream" and, with $3,000 of his own money, financed the scene after he was denied funding from Universal Pictures. [ 22 ]  Actor Craig Kingsbury had to press his head into a latex mold to make an exact copy, which was then attached to a fake body and placed in the wrecked boat's hull. The underwater scene was shot in film editor Verna Fields' swimming pool. Footage of real sharks was shot by  Ron and Valerie Taylor  in the waters off Australia, with a dwarf actor in a miniature shark cage to create the illusion that the shark was enormous. [ 22 ] [ 34 ]  Originally, the script, following the novel, had the shark killing Hooper in the shark cage, but during filming one of the sharks became trapped in the girdle of the cage and proceeded to tear the cage apart. [ 22 ]  The crew found the footage of this incident to be so visually stunning, they were eager to incorporate it into the final film. [ 26 ]  However, no one had been in the cage at the time, so the script was changed to have Matt Hooper escape, thus providing an explanation for the empty cage. [ 22 ] [ 26 ] Although filming was scheduled to take 55 days, it eventually ended in September 1974 after 159 days. [ 28 ] [ 30 ]  Spielberg, reflecting on the extended delay, stated: "I thought my career as a filmmaker was over. I heard rumors ... that I would never work again because no one had ever taken a film 100 days over schedule." [ 28 ]  Spielberg himself was not present for the shooting of the final scene where the shark explodes. He believed that the crew were planning to throw him in the water when this scene was complete. It has since become a tradition for Spielberg to be absent when the final scene of a film he directs is being filmed. [ 35 ] A fourth shark model was built months after the original three were built. It was later placed at the entrance to the Universal Studios Theme Park until it was removed in 1990. It was recovered at a Sun Valley junkyard in June 2010, with Alves and Arbogast confirming its authenticity. [ 36 ] [ 37 ] [ edit ] Reception [ edit ] Box office performance Jaws  was the first film to successfully use "wide release" as a distribution pattern. As such, it is an important film in the history of film distribution and marketing. [ 38 ]  Prior to the release of  Jaws , films typically opened slowly, usually in a few theaters in major cities, which allowed for a series of "premieres." As the success of a film increased, and word of mouth grew, distributors would forward the prints to additional cities across the country. Some films eventually achieved a wide release, such as  The Godfather , but even that blockbuster had originally debuted in just five theaters. [ 39 ] Jaws  was the first film to successfully open nationwide on hundreds of screens simultaneously, coupled with a national marketing campaign—a then-unheard of practice. (A month earlier, Columbia had done the same with a  Charles Bronson  thriller,  Breakout , but the box office was middling at best.) The film became the first to use extensive television advertising. [ 40 ]  The media blitz "included approximately twenty-five thirty-second advertisements per night on prime-time network TV" between 18–20 June 1975. [ 38 ]  Universal executive  Sidney Sheinberg 's rationale was that nationwide marketing costs would be amortized at a more favorable rate per print than if a slow, scaled release were carried out. Sheinberg's gamble paid off, with  Jaws  becoming a box office smash hit and the father of the summer  blockbuster . [ 41 ] [ 42 ] After the release of  Jaws , journalists and critics detailed its impact on how films were released in theaters.  Peter Biskind  wrote, "[The film] diminish[ed] the importance of print reviews, making it virtually impossible for a film to build slowly, finding its audience by dint of mere quality. ... In a sense, Spielberg was the Trojan horse through which the studios began to reassert their power." [ 43 ]  Author Thomas Schatz also wrote on the film's impact: "If any single film marked the arrival of the New Hollywood, it was  Jaws , the Spielberg-directed thriller that recalibrated the profit potential of the Hollywood hit, and redefined its status as a marketable commodity and cultural phenomenon as well. The film brought an emphatic end to Hollywood's five-year recession, while ushering in an era of high-cost, high-tech, high-speed thrillers." [ 43 ] Following the success of  Jaws , major studio films have almost universally been distributed and marketed on a national scale. In addition, when summer was usually a season to dump films likely to be poor performers, the success of  Jaws  caused studios to shift their action and thriller films out of winter releases. [ 43 ] When  Jaws  was released on June 20, 1975, it opened at 464 theaters. [ 44 ]  The release was subsequently expanded on July 25 to a total of 675 theaters, the largest simultaneous distribution of a film in motion picture history at the time. During the first weekend of wide release, Jaws  grossed more than $7 million, and was the top grosser for the following five weeks. [ 45 ]  During its run in theaters, the film beat the $89 million domestic rental record of the reigning box-office champion,  The Exorcist , becoming the first film to reach more than $100 million in U.S. box office receipts. [ 40 ] [ 46 ] Jaws  eventually grossed more than $470 million worldwide ($1.9 billion in 2010 dollars [ 47 ] ) and was the highest grossing box office film until Star Wars  debuted two years later. [ 48 ] [ 49 ]  It is currently the 92nd highest grossing film of all time. [ 49 ]   Jaws  and  Star Wars  are retrospectively considered to have marked the beginning of the new business model in  American filmmaking  and the beginning of the end of the  New Hollywood  period. [ edit ] Critical reception The film received near-universal acclaim. It holds a rare 100% "Fresh" rating on the review aggregate website  Rotten Tomatoes . [ 50 ]  In his original review,  Roger Ebert  called it "a sensationally effective action picture, a scary thriller that works all the better because it's populated with characters that have been developed into human beings". [ 51 ]   Variety ' s A.D. Murphy praised Spielberg's directorial skills, and called Robert Shaw's performance "absolutely magnificent". [ 52 ]   Pauline Kael  called it "the most cheerfully perverse scare movie ever made... [with] more zest than an early  Woody Allen  picture, a lot more electricity, [and] it's funny in a Woody Allen sort of way". [ 53 ]   Frank Rich  of  The New York Times  wrote "Spielberg is blessed with a talent that is absurdly absent from most American filmmakers these days: this man actually knows how to tell a story on screen. ... It speaks well of this director's gifts that some of the most frightening sequences in  Jaws  are those where we don't even see the shark. [ 54 ] The film was not without its detractors.  Vincent Canby , of  The New York Times , said "It's a measure of how the film operates that not once do we feel particular sympathy for any of the shark's victims...In the best films, characters are revealed in terms of the action. In movies like Jaws , characters are simply functions of the action. They're at its service. Characters are like stage hands who move props around and deliver information when it's necessary", but also noted that "It's the sort of nonsense that can be a good deal of fun". [ 55 ]   Los Angeles Times  critic Charles Champlin  disagreed with the film's PG rating, saying that " Jaws  is too gruesome for children, and likely to turn the stomach of the impressionable at any age." He goes on to say: "It is a coarse-grained and exploitative work which depends on excess for its impact. Ashore it is a bore, awkwardly staged and lumpily written." [ 56 ]  The most widespread criticism of the film is the artificiality of the mechanical shark. [ 57 ] In 2010, criticism surfaced from an unexpected quarter — conservationists. They credit the film with the "Jaws" effect, which inspired "legions of fishermen [who] piled into boats and killed thousands of the ocean predators in shark-fishing tournaments," thereby hastening the likely extinction of shark species. [ 58 ] [ edit ] Accolades Jaws  won  Academy Awards  for  Best Film Editing ,  Best Original Score  and  Best Sound . [ 59 ]  It was also nominated for  Best Picture , losing to One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest . [ 60 ]  In 2008,  Jaws  was selected by  Empire  magazine as the fifth greatest film ever made. [ 61 ]  Quint was also placed at #50 on  Empire's  list of  The 100 Greatest Movie Characters of All Time . [ 62 ]  In 2003,  The New York Times  included the film on its list of the best 1000 movies ever made. [ 63 ]  In 2010,  Total Film  selected the film as one of  The 100 Greatest Movies of All Time . [ 64 ]   Jaws was number 48 on  American Film Institute 's  100 Years... 100 Movies , a list of the greatest American films of all time, dropping down to number 56 on the  10 Year Anniversary list . [ 65 ]  It was ranked second on a similar list for thrillers,  100 Years... 100 Thrills . [ 66 ]   Jaws  was number one in the  Bravo  network's five-hour miniseries  The 100 Scariest Movie Moments  (2004). [ 67 ]  Similarly, the  Chicago Film Critics Association  named it the 6th scariest film ever made. [ 68 ]  The shark was anointed number 18 on AFI's  100 Years... 100 Heroes and Villains . [ 69 ]  In 2001, the United States Library of Congress deemed the film "culturally significant" and selected it for preservation in the National Film Registry . [ 70 ]  In 2005, the American Film Institute voted Roy Scheider's line "You're gonna need a bigger boat" as number 35 on its list of the  top 100 movie quotes . [ 71 ]   John Williams 's score was ranked at number six on AFI's  100 Years of Film Scores . [ 72 ]  In 2006, the screenplay of  Jaws  was selected by the  Writers Guild of America  as the 63rd best screenplay of all time. [ 73 ] [ edit ] Inspirations and influences "JAWS" on display at Universal Studios Florida Jaws  bears similarities to several literary and artistic works, most notably  Moby-Dick  by  Herman Melville . The character of Quint strongly resembles  Captain Ahab , the obsessed captain of the  Pequod  who devotes his life to hunting a  sperm whale . Quint's monologue reveals his similar vendetta against sharks, and even his boat, the  Orca , is named after  the only natural enemy of the white shark . In the novel and original screenplay, Quint dies after being dragged under the ocean by a harpoon tied to his leg, similar to Ahab's death in Melville's novel. [ 74 ]  A direct reference to these similarities may be found in the original screenplay, which introduced Quint by showing him watching the  film version of  Moby-Dick . [ 75 ]  His laughter throughout makes people get up and leave the theater ( Wesley Strick 's screenplay for  Cape Fear  features a similar scene). However, the scene from  Moby-Dick  could not be licensed from  Gregory Peck , the owner of the rights. [ 76 ]  In the novel and original screenplay, when the  Orca , like the  Pequod , is sunk by the creature, only the character of Brody survives. There is, however, a scene in which the shark rapidly tows the  Orca , which is obviously indebted to the "Nantucket sleigh ride" scene in  Moby-Dick . Some have also noticed the influences of two 1950s horror films,  The Creature from the Black Lagoon  and  The Monster That Challenged the World . [ 77 ] Critics such as Neil Sinyard have noticed similarities to  Henrik Ibsen 's play  An Enemy of the People . [ 78 ] The Ibsen work features a doctor who discovers that a seaside town's medicinal hot springs, a major tourist attraction and form of revenue, are contaminated. When the doctor attempts to convince the townspeople of the danger, he loses his job and is shunned. This plotline is paralleled in  Jaws  by Brody's conflict with Mayor Vaughn, who refuses to acknowledge the presence of a shark that may dissuade summer beachgoers from coming to Amity. In the film, Brody is vindicated when more shark attacks occur at the crowded beach in broad daylight. Sinyard calls the film a "deft combination of Watergate and Ibsen's play". [ 78 ] Jaws  was a key film in establishing the benefits of a wide national release backed by heavy media advertising, rather than a progressive release that let a film slowly enter new markets and build support over a period of time. [ 79 ]  Rather than let the film gain notice by word-of-mouth, Hollywood launched a successful television marketing campaign for the film, which added another $700,000 to the cost. [ 29 ] Similar to the fear of showers created by the pivotal scene in the 1960 film  Psycho ,  Jaws  caused many viewers to be afraid to enter the ocean. [ 80 ] [ 81 ]  The film was credited with reduced beach attendance in the summer of 1975. [ 57 ] Although it is considered a thriller-horror classic, the film is widely recognized as being responsible for perpetuating negative stereotypes about sharks and their behavior. [ 82 ]  Author Peter Benchley stated that he would not have written the original novel had he known what sharks are really like in the wild. [ 83 ]  Benchley later wrote  Shark Trouble , a non-fiction book about shark behavior, and  Shark Life , another non-fiction book describing his dives with sharks. Conservation groups have bemoaned the fact that the film has made it considerably harder to convince the public that sharks should be protected. [ 84 ] Jaws  set the template for many future horror films, so much so that the script for  Ridley Scott 's 1979 science fiction film  Alien  was pitched to studio executives with one tag line: " Jaws  in space." [ 85 ] [ edit ] Music John Williams  contributed the  film score , which was ranked sixth on the  American Film Institute 's  100 Years of Film Scores . The main "shark" theme, a simple alternating pattern of two  notes , E and F, [ 86 ]  became a classic piece of suspense music, synonymous with approaching danger (see  leading-tone ). Williams described the theme as having the "effect of grinding away at you, just as a shark would do, instinctual, relentless, unstoppable." [ 87 ]  The soundtrack piece was performed by tuba player  Tommy Johnson . When asked by Johnson why the melody was written in such a high register and not played by the more appropriate French horn, Williams responded that he wanted it to sound "a little more threatening". [ 88 ]  When the piece was first played for Spielberg, he was said to have laughed at Williams, thinking that it was a joke. Spielberg later said that without Williams' score the film would have been only half as successful, and Williams acknowledges that the score jumpstarted his career. [ 22 ]  He had previously scored Spielberg's feature film debut  The Sugarland Express  and went on to collaborate with him on almost all of his films. [ 87 ] The score contains echoes of  Igor Stravinsky 's  The Rite of Spring , particularly the opening of "The Adoration of the Earth" and "Auguries of Spring". [ 89 ]  The music has drawn comparisons to  Bernard Herrman 's score for  Alfred Hitchcock 's  Psycho  and the ominous music for the off-screen hunter in  Bambi , in which the music enhances the presence of an unseen terror, in this case the shark. [ 90 ] There are various interpretations of the meaning and effectiveness of the theme. Some have thought the two-note expression is intended to mimic the shark's heartbeat, beginning slow and controlled as the killer hunts and rising to a frenzied, shrieking climax as it approaches its prey. [ 91 ]  Others have stated that the music at first sounds like the creaking and groaning of a boat, and therefore is inaudible when it begins so that it never seems to start, but simply rises out of the sounds of the film. One critic believes the true strength of the score is its ability to create a "harsh silence", abruptly cutting away from the music right before it climaxes. [ 90 ]  Furthermore, the audience is conditioned to associate the shark with its theme, since the score is never used as a  red herring . [ 87 ]  It only plays when the real shark appears. This is later exploited when the shark suddenly appears with no musical introduction. Regardless of the meaning behind it, the theme is widely acknowledged as one of the most recognized scores of all time. [ 57 ] The  original soundtrack for  Jaws  was released by MCA in 1975, and as a CD in 1992, including roughly a half hour of music that John Williams redid for the album. In 2000, two versions of the score were released: one in a re-recording of the entire  Jaws  score performed by the Royal Scottish National Orchestra  and conducted by  Joel McNeely ; and another to coincide with the release of the 25th anniversary DVD by Decca/Universal, featuring the entire 51 minutes of the original score. Many fans prefer the Decca release over the Varèse Sarabande re-recording. [ 92 ] [ edit ] Releases, sequels and merchandise Universal "devised and co-ordinated a highly innovative plan" for the first film's distribution and exhibition. [ 38 ]  The studio and publisher Bantam designed a logo which would appear on both the paperback and on all film advertising. "Both publisher and distributor recognized the mutual benefits that a joint promotion strategy would bring." [ 38 ]  Producers Zanuck and Brown toured six cities to promote the paperback and the film. [ 38 ]  Once the film was released, more merchandising was created, including shark-illustrated swimming towels and T-shirts, plastic shark fins for swimmers to wear, and shark-shaped inflatables for them to float on. The  Ideal Toy Company  produced a  game  where the player had to use a hook to fish out items from the shark's mouth before the jaws closed. [ 93 ] The first  Laserdisc  title marketed in North America was the MCA  DiscoVision  release of  Jaws  in 1978. A second Laserdisc was released in 1991, before a third and final release came under the MCA/Universal Home Video's "Signature Collection" imprint in 1995. This release was an elaborate boxset, which included the film, along with deleted scenes and outtakes, a new two-hour documentary on the making of the film, a copy of the novel  Jaws , and a CD of John Williams' soundtrack. A year after its  MCA DiscoVision  release, it returned to theaters for a special 2 week limited engagement. It was also released on VHS by MCA Home Video in the mid-80s and in 1995 by MCA Universal Home Video as a Collector's Edition featuring a Making-of retrospective. MCA Universal Home Video released it on VHS again in 1997 as a THX-certified Special Widescreen Edition featuring a 10-minute special introduction at the beginning of the tape which was shown previously on the 1995 VHS. [ 94 ] Jaws  was first released on DVD in 2000 for the film's 25th anniversary. It featured a 50-minute documentary on the making of the film (an edited version of the one featured on the 1995 laserdisc release), with interviews from Steven Spielberg, Roy Scheider, Richard Dreyfuss, Peter Benchley and other cast and crew members. Other extras included deleted scenes, outtakes, trailers, production photos, and storyboards. [ 94 ]  In June 2005, on the 30th anniversary of the film's release, a festival named JawsFest was held in  Martha's Vineyard . [ 95 ]   Jaws was then re-released on DVD, this time including the full two-hour documentary produced by Laurent Bouzereau for the LaserDisc. As well as containing most of the same bonus features the previous DVD contained, it included a previously unavailable interview with Spielberg conducted on the set of  Jaws  in 1974. [ 96 ] In the 2000s, an independent group of fans produced a feature length documentary.  The Shark is Still Working  features interviews with a range of cast and crew from the film, and some from the sequels. It is narrated by Roy Scheider and dedicated to Peter Benchley who died in 2006. [ 97 ] [ 98 ] The film spawned three sequels, all of which failed to match the success of the original. Indeed, their combined domestic grosses barely cover half of the original's. [ 45 ]  Spielberg was unavailable to do a sequel, as he was working on  Close Encounters of the Third Kind  with Richard Dreyfuss. [ 60 ]   Jaws 2  was directed by  Jeannot Szwarc ; Roy Scheider, Lorraine Gary and Murray Hamilton reprised their roles from the original film. It is generally regarded as the best of the sequels. The next film,  Jaws 3-D , directed by Joe Alves, was released in the  3-D format, although the effect did not transfer to television or home video, where it was renamed  Jaws 3 .  Dennis Quaid  as Michael Brody and Louis Gossett, Jr.  starred in the movie.  Jaws: The Revenge , directed by  Joseph Sargent , featured the return of Lorraine Gary and is considered one of the  worst movies ever made . [ 99 ] [ 100 ]  While all three sequels made a profit at the box office ( Jaws 2  and  Jaws 3-D  are among the top 20 highest-grossing films of their respective years), critics and audiences were generally dissatisfied with the films. [ 101 ] [ 102 ] [ 103 ] In February 2010, film website  Cinema Blend  reported that a source from Universal Pictures has indicated that Universal is "strongly considering" remaking  Jaws  in  3-D , following the commercial success of  Avatar . [ 104 ]  The source also reported that  30 Rock  star  Tracy Morgan  was considered to portray Matt Hooper in the remake, which they say could be more comedic and make more use of special effects. [ 105 ]  The studio has not officially commented upon the rumor. [ 106 ] [ 107 ]  Aristocrat made an officially licensed slot machine based on the movie. [ edit ] Adaptations
The film has been adapted into two video games, two  theme park rides  at  Universal Studios Florida  and  Universal Studios Japan , [ 108 ] [ 109 ]  and two musicals:  JAWS The Musical! , which premiered in the summer of 2004 at the Minnesota Fringe Festival; and  Giant Killer Shark: The Musical , which premiered in the summer of 2006 at the  Toronto Fringe Festival
Posted by
Wikipedia
at
3:19 AM
Labels:
Top Movies Wiki
No comments:
Post a Comment
Newer Post
Older Post
Home
Subscribe to:
Post Comments (Atom)
Slidershow
Slidershow
Copyright © 2011
Celebrity
| Powered by
Blogger
Design by
Free WordPress Themes
| Bloggerized by
Lasantha
-
Premium Blogger Themes
|
ewa network review