The Best Of Stardoll: New dolls :D
The Best Of Stardoll
CHEAT: Get all OTTO clothes in your changing room!
NEW PAGE! thebestofstardoll.tumblr.com follow and link!
Saturday, February 5, 2011
New dolls :D
Minka Dumont Kelly
(born June 24, 1980) is an American actress. She starred in the NBC series Friday Night Lights as Lyla Garrity from 2006 to 2009. Kelly was born in Los Angeles, California.She is the only child of former Aerosmith guitarist Rick Dufay and Maureen Kelly, an exotic dancer and single mother who often moved with her daughter to different communities before settling in Albuquerque, New Mexico, by the time Minka was in junior high school.She is of Irish and French descent. At 19, after graduating from Valley High School in Albuquerque NM, Kelly returned to Los Angeles. While on a test shoot for a modeling agency, she was approached by a former Playboy Playmate interested in managing her, and who placed Kelly as a receptionist at a surgeon's office who would provide Kelly breast augmentation in exchange for hours worked. She ultimately chose against the procedure, leading to her being fired. However, the exposure to the medical field prompted her to attend school for a year to become a surgeon's assistant; afterward, she worked as a scrub tech. She spent four years in that vocation while also auditioning as an actress before landing the new NBC television drama Friday Night Lights, based on the high school football movie of that name. In the interim, she had small roles in movies and shows, including the film State's Evidence, and a recurring guest role on the TV sitcom What I Like About You. She shot a cameo for The Kingdom, alongside Jamie Foxx. Peter Berg, the creator and pilot director of Friday Night Lights, directed the film. Kelly was the lead actor on the The CW's 2009 pilot Body Politic, which did not go to series. Kelly was a member of the ensemble quartet that starred in the CBS comedy pilot True Love, playing Kate, a Midwestern girl who falls in love with Henry at the top of the Empire State Building, but was replaced by Sarah Chalke. Kelly appeared with Alyson Hannigan, Jaime King, Emily Deschanel, and Katharine McPhee in a video slumber party featured on FunnyorDie.com to promote regular breast cancer screenings for the organization Stand Up 2 Cancer. In 2010, Kelly was named "Sexiest Woman Alive" in the annual Esquire magazine feature. Kelly is joining the cast of the upcoming TV series Charlie's Angels. Credit: Wikipedia. Dianna Agron
(pronounced
/ˈeɪɡrɒn/ ; born
April 30 , 1986) is an American actress, singer, producer, director and screenwriter, best known for her portrayal of
Quinn Fabray
on the television series
Glee . Agron has appeared on television shows such as
Shark ,
Close to Home ,
CSI: NY ,
Numb3rs
and a recurring role on
Veronica Mars . She then appeared as Harper on a 13-episode series of short films called
It's a Mall World , directed by
Milo Ventimiglia , and airing on
MTV , and then on the second season of
Heroes
as Debbie Marshall, the head cheerleader/captain of the cheer squad at Costa Verde High School, also with Ventimiglia. Dianna has also hosted a mini Music Festival for
826LA
in Los Angeles called Chickens in Love. She was among many young Hollywood stars selected to be in
Wal-Mart 's
Ocean Pacific
spring 2010 marketing campaign. The national campaign debuted in fashion, lifestyle and entertainment magazines such as
Elle ,
Teen Vogue ,
Seventeen
and
Cosmopolitan , outdoor and online at the official
Ocean Pacific
website. In addition, the celebrities hosted an
Ocean Pacific
party in Los Angeles in late April and made personal appearances on behalf of the brand. Agron's most notable role to date is as
Quinn Fabray , a high school cheerleader, on the
FOX
series
Glee , which has received high ratings and critical acclaim, including a
Screen Actors Guild Award
and a
Golden Globe , since the series began in May 2009. In 2010, Agron directed the music video for "Body" by
Thao with the Get Down Stay Down . In 2010, Agron played the small role of Natalie, girlfriend to main character Ali's love interest Jack, in the movie
Burlesque
alongside
Christina Aguilera ,
Cher , and
Stanley Tucci . Agron was chosen by
People
to be part of their Most Beautiful 2010. She also came 26th in the 2010 Afterellen.com top Hot 100 list. Agron is a
vegetarian
and a supporter of
PETA , and has a role in
Bold Native , a 2010 film that explores the issues of animal liberation and animal rights. Credit: Wikipedia. YAY I LOVE DIANNA AGRON! Did they spell her name wrongly or something? But anyway I think the dolls are starting to look more and more like the actual people. CHEERS! I don't actually know who Minka Kelly is, but apparently she's very hot :O And hell, I love Dianna Agron more (just watched Burlesque few days ago!). Whatcha think of them? (:
Posted by
nat.
at
2/05/2011 04:37:00 PM
No comments:
Post a Comment
Newer Post
Older Post
Home
Subscribe to:
Post Comments (Atom)
{Prologue.}
WE ARE BACK. and you know you wanna help out, don't you? Introducing... beppecollins (Beth) and kbiirdx! So there are four of us now! Savannah, me, and those two. You can still write for us, you know? Just send an email to thebestofstardoll@gmail.com and we'll get back to you! Not promising any superquick updates like other uber-pro blogs, but we'll try. xoxo, tiatulip (or Nat) P.S. forever grateful to Lexi and Yasmine!
{Hot Buys of the Month.}
February's here... They're pretty good, no? (Image is from Stardoll's post in the StarBlog.)
{Stardoll.}
tiatulip
Visit my Stardoll Suite Visit my Stardoll Suite
And hey, a lot of people have been asking for the link to this thing. I'm trying to figure out a way, get back to you soon!
{Followers.}
{Love, love, love.}
Kudos to all you awesome bloggers.
Blogs Hot Buys Bazaar
Gossip Stardoll
Stardoll Designer
Underneath Stardoll
Perez Hilton of Stardoll
Gossip Stardoll
LE Addicted
Hot Buys Addicted
Medoll Memoires
Late Night With Chad
How to Get Free
The Ugly Side of Stardoll
Seen on Stardoll
Mels Models
Stardoll i my
(Polish)
The Fashionable Stardoll
Tyler's Top Trends
Elite News
The Stardoll Bullet
The W.O.R.D
Stardoll Trendsetters
The Stardoll Chronicles
Stardoll Gossip Girl
It's Stardoll Gossip, B!tch! Eliie at Stardoll Stardoll Collectors Stardoll NO H8 Stardoll for Fashion
(no longer updated)
Surfing Stardoll with Yas
(no longer updated)
With Lipstick On
(no longer in use)
Magazines
Fierce Productions
Lipstick Magazine Style Magazine
Style Magazine Teen
Stardoll Glamour Magazine
Statement Magazine
Eternity Magazine
...and tons more!
{History.}
▼
2011
(13)
▼
February
(7)
OH. MY. GOSH.HAVE YOU SEEN THE NEW STARPLAZA.
Okay...
New dolls :D
VALENTINE'S TREAT.
Winter Blush
/tiatulip here.
So, quick updates! New line! Fairy...
UPDATES ON 'DISNEYDOLL' (:
►
January
(6)
►
2010
(4)
►
August
(4)
►
2009
(1)
►
January
(1)
►
2008
(75)
►
December
(6)
►
November
(7)
►
October
(17)
►
September
(35)
►
August
(10)
You're visitor number ...
html hit counter code
Picture Window template. Template images by
selensergen . Powered by
Blogger .