My Cultural Landscape: January 2011
My Cultural Landscape
(Copyright George Heymont, All Rights Reserved)
Sunday, January 30, 2011
Give Their Regards To Broadway
Sometimes a quick look at your calendar can knock you for a loop. Commitments you made far in advance originally had no relationship to the other items that landed in the same week. When you least expect it, a quick check of what you're doing over the next few days takes on a new and surprising relevance.
With so much attention showered on
Irving Berlin ,
Rodgers and Hammerstein ,
Stephen Sondheim , and  Andrew Lloyd Webber
in recent seasons, a curious coincidence put the history of the American
musical theatre
in a different light last week. I discovered that, without any intentional planning, I would be exposed to musical highlights from nearly 100 years of the history of the American musical theatre. Here's how it played out (in reverse order).
* * * * * * * * *
* On Saturday night, I headed over to the
Jewish Community Center of San Francisco
for a performance of
'S Wonderful: The New Gershwin Musical .  This is essentially a fast-paced musical revue directed and conceived by
Ray Roderick
(who also created
Irving Berlin's I Love A Piano , which played at the JCCSF last year). With choreography by   Vince Pesce  (and Nathan W. Perry as pianist/music director), Roderick built a curious story line for the show. The promotional synopsis reads as follows:
" 'S Wonderful
starts in
New York City
in 1924 honoring the comedic style of
silent movie stars
of the 1920s. A desire for love allows a man to shatter his black and white existence and find a world of color. The journey continues in 1938 as a young Parisian café waitress and an American sailor struggle to follow their love in WWII
Paris . We fast forward to 1948 Hollywood with a makeup artist who makes others beautiful. She discovers her own creative gifts and finds the beauty in herself.  'S Wonderful
then introduces us to a young singer who has traveled the world, and finally finds her true love: The city of
New Orleans
in 1959. Finally, our journey ends in the present day. Separated by 3,000 miles, a young man uses today's technology and the songs of
George
and
Ira Gershwin
to tell his love what he can't say for himself, proving the enduring and timeless power of the Gershwin Songbook."
Poster art for
'S Wonderful
The show is framed by a curious subplot in which the spirit of a young woman wants to find a way to let her grandson enjoy the music that she loved so dearly when she was his age. Since she can't give him her
vinyl recordings , she has been trying to find a way to give him the songs written by the Gershwin brothers so that  he can share them with his friends.  Needless to say, the fact that his
ear buds
are connected to an
iPhone
offers her the perfect delivery system using the latest technology.
What follows is an extremely fast-paced race through more than 40 songs written by George and Ira Gershwin between 1916 and 1937. While the performances by  Tripp Hampton ,  Kevin Metzger ,  Katie Mitchell ,  Katie Reid , and  Kimberly Thomas  are as perky as one would expect from an industrial show (or a cruise ship's entertainment staff), the plot is about as subtle as
Beach Blanket Babylon's
many trips around the world.
Roderick's shows evidence a severe dread of letting a slow number cast a musical spell on the audience (his revues are sometimes so energetic that they leave audiences wishing for a break in the forward momentum). What makes
'S Wonderful  much more interesting than his
Irving Berlin
revue is the use of so many snippets from Gershwin's
Rhapsody in Blue
and
An American in Paris  for musical bridges. The following promotional video gives a good sense of the show's pacing:
* * * * * * * * * * On Thursday night, the
Alcazar Theatre
played host to the latest installment in  42nd Street Moon's  musical salons dedicated to Broadway's most important
composers
and
lyricists .   All That Jazz! A John Kander Salon  starred  Noah Racey  and  Karen Ziemba  with strong support from such 42nd Street Moon stalwarts as
Rob Hatzenbeller ,
Alexandra Kaprielian ,  Anil Margsahayam , and co-founder  Stephanie Rhoads .
Composer John Kander
As always, the company's artistic director,  Gregg MacKellan , narrated the evening with music director  Dave Dobrusky  at the piano and Nick DiScala on reeds. The only drawback to an otherwise thoroughly delightful event was the poor sound design by Carole Davis, which was often shrill and distorted the evening's vocal contributions.
Rob Hatzenbeller, Greg MacKellan, Anil Margsahayam, Nick DiScala, Dave Dobrusky, and Noah Racey
Like the Gershwins, the music of
John Kander  was popularized on Broadway stages as well as in Hollywood films such as
Funny Lady ,  New York, New York
nd the film adaptations of
Kander and Ebb's
two biggest Broadway successes:  Cabaret
and
Chicago . While 42nd Street Moon's salon included rarely heard songs from  A Family Affair  ("Harmony," "Summer Is Over"),  70, Girls, 70  ("See The Light"),  The Happy Time  ("The Life of the Party"), and  Flora, The Red Menace  ("Sing Happy), the inclusion of "Life Is" offered MacKellan the opportunity to announce that
Zorba  would be included in the company's upcoming season.
Alexandra Kaprielian, Stephanie Rhoads, and Karen Ziemba
Kander considers himself lucky to have had three
muse s to compose for:
Liza Minnelli ,
Chita Rivera , and Karen Ziemba. While the second half of the evening included selections from
The Rink
(1984),
Woman of the Year
(1981),
Kiss of the Spider Woman
(1992),
Curtains
(2006), and
The Scottsboro Boys
(2010), I have to admit a special fondness for the music from
Steel Pier
(1997), which I have always thought to be one of Broadway's most underappreciated scores. The evening included some snippets from two Kander and Ebb shows that never made it to Broadway: their adaptations of
Thornton Wilder's
comedy,  The Skin of Our Teeth , and
Friedrich Durrenmatt's
satirical drama,  The Visit  (which had originally been developed as a vehicle for
Angela Lansbury , who was forced to withdraw from the project when her husband became ill).
Kander and Ebb often wrote special material for
Kaye Ballard,
whose popularity as a singer on television variety shows often pigeonholed her talents due to her strong skills as a comedienne. Although the
torch song
"Maybe This Time" (which was added to the movie of
Cabaret)
was originally written for Ballard, television producers would not allow her to sing anything that serious. Another specialty song written for Ballard is performed by Liza Minnelli in the following clip from one of her appearances at
Radio City Music Hall .
* * * * * * * * * *
Last Wednesday, the national touring company of
Next To Normal  settled into the
Curran Theatre
for a month-long run.  With music by
Tom Kitt  (and book and lyrics by
Brian Yorkey ), the winner of the 2010
Pulitzer Prize for Drama
is neatly framed by
Mark Wendland's  highly utilitarian unit set and the magnificent lighting design by  Kevin Adams .
Jeremy Kushnier, Alice Ripley, and Asa Somers in  Next To Normal Photo by: Craig Schwartz
As directed by
Michael Greif ,
Next To Normal
focuses on a highly dysfunctional household whose mother has been battling
bipolar disease
for years. In the course of her marriage, Diane ( Alice Ripley ) has swallowed enough pills to fuel several large
rave
events. Throughout her days, she is haunted by the soul of her son that might have been, Gabe ( Curt Hansen ).
Gabe may have died in infancy, but had he lived he would be nearing his 18th birthday. In Diane's mind, he is very much alive and shows no signs of disappearing. Natalie, the daughter who followed several years later, is now in high school and a bundle of insecurity. Diane's husband, Dan ( Asa Somers ), has tried to be as accommodating and supportive as possible, but his wife's latest meltdown (after Diane flushed all her medications down the toilet) is working his very last nerve.
Whether she is dealing with a
psychopharmacologist
like Dr. Madden or a
neurologist
like Dr. Fine (both played by the likable
Jeremy Kushnier ), the exhausted Diane has grasped a painful truth that keeps eluding her doctors.
Western medicine
is not helping her get better. In fact, it may be making her worse.
Curt Hansen, Alice Ripley, and Asa Somers in
Next To Normal
Photo by: Craig Schwartz
When a trial of
electroconvulsive therapy
nearly robs her of a part of her soul, Diane gets up the courage to tell her doctors to go fuck themselves. With increasing resolve, she leaves her husband and returns to live with her parents in an attempt to sort matters out by herself. Her departure leaves Natalie able to explore a relationship with a potential boyfriend ( Preston Sadleir ) and Diane's husband able to get close to, maybe even
Next To Normal .
There is much to celebrate in Tom Kitt's and Brian Yorkey's riveting music, which received the 2009
Tony Award for Best Original Score . I found it especially interesting to hear a score that very much has its own voice and one in which the dominant vocal work goes to three tenors. Among the show's musical numbers, I particularly liked "Who's Crazy/My Psychopharmacologist and I," "Perfect For You," "I'm Alive," and "How Could I Ever Forget?"
Although Alice Ripley offers a powerful dramatic performance as Diane, there were moments when I found myself worrying about the health of her voice. I'm happy to note that her understudy is the marvelous Pearl Sun (who co-starred in
Long Story Short
down at
TheatreWorks  in late 2008).
Although far from a traditional Broadway musical,  Next To Normal  is a dynamic piece of brave and gripping musical theatre. Performances continue at the Curran Theatre through February 20 (you can
order tickets here ).  In the meantime, here's a brief trailer for the production:
Posted by
geoheymont
at
5:36 PM
0
comments
Friday, January 28, 2011
Where There's A Will
In its simplest form, a
will
is a basic legal document that offers a guide to how the decedent wished to have his
estate
be distributed. The wealthier the decedent, the more complicated the will. But for most people (especially those who are poor or who have few tangible assets to distribute among their survivors), a will sometimes seems like an unnecessary burden.
Why? Drafting a will means accepting the fact that, at one point or another, you will die.
Some people resist this basic concept because of religious beliefs.
Others do so out of sheer
narcissism
(insisting that since they're not going to die so there's no need to worry about drawing up a will).
Some people can't afford the legal fees or the software required to create a will.
Others are content to rely on the oral instructions they have given to their closest friends and relatives.
Some people are simply
procrastinators
who, given a chance, will wait until they are on their deathbed to draw up a will.
Those who bear grudges may choose to leave nothing behind, or let the remaining family (like vultures picking apart a carcass) fight to see who emerges triumphant.
Two new foreign films deal with the creation and resolution of a dying man's will. Each comes from a filmmaker with a distinct and determined artistic vision. One film arrives wrapped in the
artistic cachet
of an
Academy Award -winning actor and highly-acclaimed director. The other was filmed by a bunch of rowdy film
insurgents
with a snarky attitude. Do you even need to guess which film has greater appeal?
* * * * * * * * * The opening and closing scenes of
Alejandro González Iñárritu's
new film,
Biutiful , take place in a snowy forest. Two men exchange cryptic pieces of dialogue about one's need to get his affairs in order before he dies.
Those two scenes are beautifully filmed, share a haunting, surreal beauty, and keep the audience on edge. Unfortunately, in between those two scenes are
two hours
of depressing squalor and boredom, which easily makes
Biutiful
one of the most underwhelming films I've seen in quite some time. As the filmmaker explains:
"Having traveled the world with
Babel , I thought I had sufficiently explored the multiple perspectives, fragmented structures and intersecting histories. Each of my movies was filmed in a different language in a different country, with different structures and different scales. I was so exhausted after
Babel,  I was amused to say that my next movie would focus on one character, would take place in one city, with a simple story, and in my own language.
Biutiful
is a distillation of everything I have ever made: a linear story carried by a single character. I wanted to describe a complex life in its simplest form. In a way,
Biutiful
develops a new theme that has haunted me for years: fatherhood -- the fear of losing one's father to become a father, and that moment where you start to become your own father and where your children become you. It is also a film about loss -- because at the end, we are also what we lost."
Poster art for  Biutiful
Most of
Biutiful
takes place in an area of
Barcelona
that, although certainly not a
slum , has become home to multiple waves of
immigrants . Some have fled their homelands in search of better lives, others are hoping to avoid  deportation . As Iñárritu explains:
"During the 1960s,
Franco
brought hundreds of thousands of people from different regions of
Spain
in
Catalonia , and prevented them from speaking
Catalan
to destroy this identity. At the heart of a terrible economic crisis, the
Castilians
-- mostly from
Extremadura ,
Andalusia , and
Murcia
-- have become immigrants within their own country. They were assigned to a suburb of Barcelona, Santa Coloma, and were designated as the
Charnegos  (a pejorative reference to immigrants without money and their children). In the 1980s and 1990s, with the return of growth, the Charnegos began to leave Santa Coloma, which became a haven for immigrants from around the world. Although
El Raval
(the Chinatown) is known to be the most diverse area of Barcelona, it is with Santa Coloma de Badalona and the neighborhood that I fell in love. There,
Senegalese , Chinese,
Pakistanis ,
gypsies ,
Romanians , and
Indonesians
live together in peace, without problems, and everyone speaks their own language without the desire or the need to integrate Spain. Throughout this neighborhood on a Sunday you can see the gypsy groups singing in the streets while
Muslims
pray in a park or chant over the loudspeakers of a small
mosque
and a
Catholic church
is filled with Chinese.  It's a neighborhood that has not been sanitized. It is human, it has a smell, texture, and its own contradictions. It is a true example of community that carries with it the
DNA
of an ideal form of the
United Nations .
Migration
and
diversity , which in the past, took almost three hundred years to make, have occurred here in only 25 years. Of course, this does not happen without pain or tragedy. Every year, hundreds of Africans drown trying to reach the Spanish coast. These images are difficult to watch. And every day we read articles about how Chinese immigrants are abused and exploited across
Europe . In
Britain
alone, there are another million Chinese. Contrary to what happens in the United States, these people do not come to Europe to blend into the local culture. Most of them come here to survive and help those they left behind."
Javier Bardem as Uxbal in  Biutiful
The film's protagonist, Uxbal, is portrayed by
Javier Bardem
(an actor of great skill who appears in nearly ever scene). Although there is a great deal happening in Uxbal's life, none of it is good. In between using his spiritual/psychic abilities to help the dying transition to the
afterlife , he must face the harsh realities of
blood in his urine , an irresponsible brother as his business partner, an unmanageable and
bipolar
wife who wants to go out and "enjoy life like a
whore ," and a seven-year-old son who is already smoking cigarettes.
Born Charnego, Uxbal is one of  the few people can speak Castilian who remained in Santa Coloma. He grew up with immigrants, works with them, and tries to help them find work (even while exploiting them as cheap labor). Although his life is complicated by the needs of so many others, and Uxbal deeply loves his two children, he is so busy that he barely has time to die, much less provide for their future. Alone and desperate, Uxbal is the kind of man whose pathetic circumstances mean that, even as he is dying of
metastatic cancer , he can't afford to be depressed.
Some people may be drawn to Iñárritu's film for its gritty sense of reality, Bardem's fine acting, or simply because misery loves company. I thought it was a colossal bore. Here's the trailer:
* * * * * * * * * The only thing missing from  The Drummond Will  (which will be screened at the upcoming
13th San Francisco Independent Film Festival ) would be some cameo appearances by the ghosts of
Terry-Thomas
and  Margaret Rutherford . This raucously rude and deliciously irreverent farce gets more out of its stark black and white cinematography than most indie films could ever hope to enjoy.
In his director’s statement, Alan Butterworth writes:
"Making the film in black and white was never really a difficult decision. My favorite film ( Dr. Strangelove ) is in black and white.
Kind Hearts and Coronets
looks better than
The Ladykillers .
Manhattan
looks better than
Annie Hall , and
Raging Bull
looks better than just about anything.
I also mention
Kind Hearts and Coronets
as it was also a key influence on the story. I only saw it a few years ago and I was blown away by it. The concept of having a central character who was so clearly immoral in a comedy was something that really stuck with me. For our film  though, especially with Danny, a character who wasn’t exactly immoral but simply unconstrained by traditional moral values, seemed a more interesting way to go in a modern context.
This film is a deeply affectionate modern retelling of the classic comedies and murder mysteries from the
Ealing era of British cinema ,
The Drummond Will
imagines what it would be like to be stuck in a world where the strange rules of Ealing cinema apply. A world where life continues quite as normal in the face of escalating body counts, where sleepy English villages invariably harbor any number of dark secrets, and where you only really know who the murderer is when everybody else has been killed. The thoroughly modern Danny and Marcus are trapped in just such a world, and are quickly swept out of their depth. As they realize they’ll need to rely on each other if they are to survive, and modern ideas like  forensics , cell phones and
common sense
won’t help them, it quickly becomes clear that, inevitably, nothing is what it seems."
Marcus (Mark Oosterveen) and Danny Drummond (Phillip James )
Marcus Drummond ( Mark Oosterveen ) is a conservative, middle-aged bureaucrat prone to suffering increasing levels of abuse. His brother, Danny ( Phillip James, ) is the happy-go-lucky fool who can't stop himself from making bad decisions and getting into more trouble. Soon after their return to the tiny village in which they grew up, their father's funeral sets off a chain of unlikely events bound to land the two brothers in a never-ending heap of trouble. Among the people who seem determined to make their lives miserable are:
The Constable
( Jonathan Hansler ) is a familiar stereotype of British whodunits.
The Vicar
( Nigel Osner ) thinks that, even in this day and age, his sexuality would be a secret.
Betty the Barmaid
( Victoria Jeffrey ) has a nasty way with a
crossbow .
The Colonel
( Eryl Lloyd-Parry ) desperately wants something.
Malcolm the Bastard
(Morrison Thomas) is hiding in the closet, clutching a bag of money.
Hobo Dave
(David Manson) is as drunk as ever.
Marcus (Mark Oosterveen) tries to tidy up the kitchen
Only their loving Uncle Rufus (Keith Parry) seems happy to see the two Drummond boys. But, like everyone else in the village, Rufus has a few secrets up his sleeve.
To spill the beans wouldn't be fair to the filmmaker. Let's just say that
The Drummond Will
is one of the most refreshingly inventive and lovingly crafted send-ups of a beloved genre to be seen in many a moon. It's  the blackest of comedies and a joyful romp rolled into one very pleasing package. Here's the trailer:
Posted by
geoheymont
at
6:05 PM
0
comments
Wednesday, January 26, 2011
Tough Choices
Written in 1743,
Carlo Goldoni's  popular
Commedia dell'arte
farce,
The Servant of Two Masters , focuses on the lengths to which the wily
Truffaldino
will go to get more food in his belly. Cursed with an insatiable hunger, Truffaldino sees the opportunity to serve a second master as a chance to get more food -- no matter the trials and tribulations he might encounter on his way to achieving satisfaction.
Whether a person thirsts for knowledge, status, wealth, or power, the merest hint of another challenge may whet his appetite for more of the same. Oftentimes hunger, yearning, greed, lust, and desire come from deep-rooted emotional needs that can never be fully satisfied.
Stephen Sondheim's
1987 musical,
Into The Woods , focused on the characters from a group of beloved
fairy tales
who all wished for something that would change their lives. As the audience soon learned, the fulfillment of those wishes was often accompanied by hidden costs that compromised each character's
integrity . The double-edged sword of wish fulfillment can be seen in each of the following truisms:
The meek shall inherit the earth.
I am your biggest fear and your best fantasy.
Good things come to those who wait.
Give a man a fish and he will eat for a day; teach a man how to fish and he will never go hungry.
The devil you know is better than the one you don't.
Beware your fantasy, it might just come true.
If knowledge brings power, knowledge can also bring the pain of greater awareness.  Things that once seemed black and white (and relatively easy to understand) move into greyer territories of comprehension that may contain treacherous pools of confusion, resentment, deception, and disillusionment. Without a diagnosis of
schizophrenia , can one really have the best of all possible worlds?
* * * * * * * * * * Coming up at the
13th San Francisco Independent Film Festival
is a curious documentary named  Toumast: Between Guitars and Kalishnikovs . Beautifully filmed by
Dominique Margot , it offers breathtaking Saharan landscapes while telling the story of a man torn between two identities.
Born as a
Tuareg , Moussa Ag Keina grew up among the
nomads
who roam the
Sahara . Over the years, political differences between countries like
Mali
and
Niger
have taken their toll on the Tuareg population and its rapidly disappearing culture.
Like many young Tuaregs, Moussa sought employment in
Muammar al Gaddafi's
armed forces in
Libya
in the 1980s. Wounded during his time spent with the
Tuareg Liberation Front , he received medical treatment in
France .
Disillusioned by the random bloodshed he witnessed in the Sahara (which is shown in the documentary) as well as the
assassinations
of 12 of his colleagues, Moussa has evolved from a rebel fighter into a rebel musician. As a
Paris -based singer/guitarist (and leader of the musical ensemble named  Toumast ), he tries to make people more aware of the plight of  Africa's Tuaregs through his concert appearances and recordings.
Aminatou Goumar and Moussa Ag Keina
As Margot follows her subject across the Sahara, she witnesses the emotional loyalties that tug at his heart. On one hand, Moussa identifies strongly as a Tuareg, misses the nomadic cuisine he enjoyed as a child, and anguishes over the indignities his people have suffered as a result of
drought
and politics. On the other hand, the temptation to return to a lifestyle which depends on
Kalishnikov assault rifles
is less appealing than the freedom he enjoys creating music.
Moussa's travels take him to Saharan
oases
(where a guest is always greeted with free water) and to
Kidal , a city in Mali where he encounters a women's music ensemble named Tilwat. (In Taureg society, women are equal to men -- as a member of Toumast explains, Tuareg music cannot be created or performed without women).
Aminatou Goumar and Moussa Ag Keina
Toumast
is quite different from most documentaries about contemporary musicians. Filmed against a background of political isolation and cultural alienation, it is filled with exotic images -- ranging from
camel racing
to desert sunsets. Although obviously now a French resident, more than ever before Moussa feels like a man without a country. Here's the trailer:
* * * * * * * * If one were to examine trends in disposable income over the past four decades, two might stand out above others:
conspicuous consumption
and
ethical consumerism . Whereas the first clings to the philosophy that "he who has the most toys when he dies wins," the second urges consumers to use their
buying power
to bring about
social change .
Starting in the 1970s,
deregulation
gave rise to
frequent flyer miles reward programs . Subsequently, companies like
Working Assets
and
Whole Foods Market
tried to attract consumers with their corporate philosophies. Marketing professionals developed new ways to convince shoppers that they deserved "the best that money can buy" and that "membership has its privileges."
Robin Leach
(the former host of
Lifestyles of the Rich and Famous ) became famous for instilling the desire for "champagne wishes and caviar dreams" in the minds of his audience.
But consumers can be fickle. Back in the 1970s, when
Anita Bryant
was on a holy rampage against the LGBT community, I doubt she ever expected homosexuals to mobilize behind a boycott of Florida
orange juice
products.  Subsequent efforts to get
Coors beer
out of gay bars (due to the blatant homophobia of the conservative Coors family) had a similar corporate consciousness raising effect.
As part of the international protest against
South Africa's
policy of
apartheid , many people "disinvested" themselves of stocks issued by South African companies. Although P resident Ronald Reagan
vetoed the
Comprehensive Anti-Apartheid Act of 1986 , the Republican controlled Senate managed to override his veto, thus banning new investment by the United States in South Africa, prohibiting sales to the South African military, and restricting imports of South African goods. Following an amendment to the
Budget Reconciliation Act of 1987 , American  corporations doing business in South Africa were subject to
double taxation .
Once it became evident that
diamonds
from African mines were being sold in world markets to help finance
insurgencies , a campaign against the importation of " blood diamonds " became an international
cause célèbre . On January 18, 2001,  in accordance with several
United Nations
resolutions, outgoing
President Bill Clinton
issued an
executive order
prohibiting the importation of rough diamonds from
Sierra Leone .  In May of 2001,
President George W. Bush
issued an executive order banning important of diamonds from
Liberia .
The ever-brilliant
Mike Daisey
is currently thrilling audiences at the
Berkeley Rep
with two new monologues. Five days prior to the West Coast premiere of
The Agony and the Ecstasy of Steve Jobs , Daisey posted the following message on his blog:
"This is a very special show for us -- I don't think
Jean-Michele
and I have ever worked as hard as we have bringing this piece to light, or have poured as much of ourselves into the work as we have into this story. This monologue is the
apotheosis
of years of journalism, travel, research, investigation, sweat, and tears...and I believe it tells an untold and deeply necessary story for our time.  On the one hand is the story of
Steve Jobs  -- his genius, his
egotism , and his vision, a real life
Willy Wonka
whose obsessions have shaped our daily world. It explores the mysteries of the cult of
Apple , the dream of a
laptop
so thin you can cut a
sandwich
with it, and the idea that if you control the
metaphor
through which we see the world, then in our age now, you can control the world itself."
Mike Daisey (Photo by: Kevin Berne)
"This story of technology and its pleasures is told against the landscape of
southern China , where I witnessed firsthand the true human cost of creating all of our marvelous tools. This behind-the-scenes journey into the heart of the forges where
iPods ,
iPhones , laptops, and all our technology spills forth illuminates a place where workers throw themselves to their deaths from high-rises in modern-day workhouses, where workers die on the production line of overwork, where they sleep in cement cells with dozens of women and men crammed in rooms like
labor camps  -- a landscape of our own making. Today Steve Jobs announced he is stepping down from Apple for health reasons. It is almost impossible to imagine Apple without him, and there's a palpable sense of loss and change as the tech industry struggles to know what this will mean for its future.  We stand at a
crossroads , and it is my sincere belief that this story, capturing both his genius and his stubbornness, his brilliance and his ridiculousness, can help turn our attention to how the tech industry can grow up and begin to take responsibility for its decisions. Now is the best moment for us to look deeply and actually begin to see there's something more significant than the next iPhone's release, the next
keynote presentation . Now is the moment to start waking up."
Mike Daisey poses in front of a monument to Deng Xiopheng
while visiting Shenzhen, China (Photo by:  Ursa Waz)
Daisey is far from alone in describing
The Agony and the Ecstasy of Steve Jobs
as the best work he and his wife have ever created. The show begins with Daisey mocking himself as a short, fat white man in a  Hawaiian shirt  navigating his way through the more remote recesses of the
Chungking Mansions
shopping complex in  Kowloon  as he searches for a specific type of hacker.
If artists like Daisey often seem  subversive , it is because they tend to pay exquisite attention to detail while researching a role or project. Often, an artist's mental acuity will allow him to " connect the dots " in ways that elude most
mainstream
journalists and
publicity flacks .
The audience listens in awe as Daisey describes the shrewd yet common sense methodology he used to seduce his guide into helping him pull off a preposterous business  hoax . There are knowing howls of laughter as Daisey performs a withering takedown of the idiotic behavior inspired by  Microsoft PowerPoint  during business presentations.
Watching Daisey in performance, it becomes obvious that -- as much as he loves technology and worships Apple's products -- his recently acquired knowledge of how Apple products are assembled cause him genuine emotional pain. During his presentation Daisey is quick to point out that while so many Americans now express a desire for products that are "hand made," they have no knowledge that
China's
techniques of
mass production
(especially and most ironically in regard to
electronics ) rely on the cheapest form of  labor in which
everything
is hand made.
Caught in a
tug of war
between wanting the latest technology and agonizing over the human toll market demand exerts on Chinese assembly workers, Daisey aims to infect his audience with a
virus
of awareness, hoping that they might act to exert their power as consumers. He carefully points out how -- following a series of suicides at the manufacturing facilities of
Foxconn  -- the announcement that Foxconn had increased its labor costs by 30% overnight failed to make the mainstream media question what kind of conditions could allow
any
manufacturer to swallow a similar rise in labor costs.
Mike Daisey (Photo by: Kevin Berne)
Unlike most of his performances (in which Daisey sits behind an old-fashioned wooden desk), he uses a sleek glass and metal desk for
The Agony and the Ecstasy of Steve Jobs . This is a lecture of
cutting-edge
brilliance, tremendous
pathos , and deep intellectual insight carefully calculated to shock audiences that demand the latest technology at the lowest prices.
With surgical precision, Daisey explains the appalling human cost of satisfying our trendy, market-driven desires and dares audiences to act like the conscientious consumers they'd like to believe they really are. Daisey's ultimate challenge to the audience is far less fearsome than what readers face at the end of  Frank R. Stockton's
celebrated short story,  The Lady, or the Tiger?
Nevertheless, he aims to provoke a crisis of conscience.
As the applause dies down and people leave the theatre, tiny tendrils of guilt begin to spread along their neural networks. Is Daisey's virus spreading? Only time will tell.
Posted by
geoheymont
at
12:38 PM
0
comments
Monday, January 24, 2011
Pace Makers
January may start slow, but the pace of theatrical presentations is rapidly accelerating. Many Bay area arts organizations have learned the value of sharing their resources by either co-producing events or inviting their artistic colleagues to make use of their performance spaces.
In what was once the
York Theatre
on 24th Street, the women running the  Brava Center for the Arts  have launched an artistic collaboration with choreographer  Joe Goode . Thanks to Goode's curatorial guidance, they were able to present three Bay area dance companies to their growing subscription base while adding a new dimension of
contemporary dance theatre
to their company's artistic profile. Goode began each program as a genial host who explained the concept behind
Gush
and the significance of the dance pieces to be presented.
Choreographer Joe Goode
Starting off each program was one of Goode's early creations,  29 Effeminate Gestures . Taking great pleasure in the fact that he had received a grant from the
National Endowment for the Arts
to "recreate a masterpiece," Goode looked out into the audience with a twinkle in his eye and smirked "So there!" As performed by
Melecio Estrella ,
29 Effeminate Gestures  remains an accessible piece of dance theatre in which a young man's sissy-like affectations are temporarily tamed by his access to power tools. Real chairs were harmed during the performance of this work.
* * * * * * * * * * * * Born in
Burma ,  Ledoh  came to America when he was 11 years old. As an adult, in trained under
Butoh
master Katsura Kan in Japan and eventually founded Salt Farm as a multi-media dance theatre company. According to Ledoh:
"We live in the body which is form proceeding through time. When I am fully in the body, I experience a sense of timelessness. Movement is one avenue to experience the moment. When fully standing in the moment, the past and the future are easily accessible. I am a filter allowing energy and experience to pass through me." Ledoh and Iu-Hui Cha performed an extended version of
ColorMeAmerica , whose film components are often more compelling than its dance elements. While researching materials to include in this review, I came across the following video of a 10-minute version of
ColorMeAmerica
which, to be honest, strikes me as far more riveting and able to hold the audience's attention than Ledoh's longer version of the piece.
COLORMEAMERICA
from
Salt Farm Butoh Vérité
* * * * * * * * * * * *
I was much more impressed with two works performed by the  Axis Dance Company . Choreographed by
Sebastian Grubb  (and performed by Grubb and
Rodney Bell ),
The Narrowing
is a duet for two men -- one free to escape the confines of his chair and the other
wheelchair
bound. With an original score of immense appeal by
Michael Wall , it's a work of surprising poetry and athleticism, some of which can be seen in this clip from an open rehearsal.
Following a brief intermission, the company performed a work that had been created by Goode (and for which he won an
Isadora Duncan Dance Award
for Outstanding Achievement in Choreography). Entitled  "the beauty that was mine, through the middle, without stopping..."  the piece was performed by a cast of five (three of whom were in wheelchairs). As with many of Goode's dance theatre pieces, this one included spoken text, a dry sense of humor, and occasional images of breathtaking beauty -- one of which can be seen in the following clip:
* * * * * * * * * * * *
Down in
Mountain View ,
TheatreWorks
began 2011 with a new production of
Patrick Barlow's
delightful adaptation of
The 39 Steps
(based on the book by
John Buchan
and
Alfred Hitchcock's
classic film version from 1935).
The 39 Steps
falls into a peculiar category of stage farce. It's the kind of show whose ingenuity dazzles the first time around. A repeat viewing allows someone to catch a lot of moments that may have whizzed by too quickly during the first exposure. However, subsequent viewings often leave one scrutinizing the physical execution of the performance rather than analyzing the superb craftsmanship in the writing.
This is where the experience gained over many years of attending operatic performances comes in handy for an arts writer. Certain operas fall into a category known as "the standard repertory." These include such "bread and butter" operas as
Aida ,
La Boheme ,
Carmen ,
La Traviata ,
The Barber of Seville ,
The Magic Flute , and
Madama Butterfly . Audiences get used to experiencing these operas on a fairly regular basis. Because their experiences may change depending on the cast, production, and performance venue, one's appreciation of an opera becomes enriched in much the same way that one's appreciation of a favorite dish is changed as it is prepared and served in one restaurant after another.
The result? Rather than familiarity breeding contempt, repeated viewings help to develop a broader appreciation of an opera's basic strengths while allowing audiences to learn how different singers, designers, and directors deepen and color their understanding of a composer's work.
In a piece like
The 39 Steps
(which depends on rapid pacing, quick costume changes, and multitudinous
sight gags ), the element of surprise evaporates over repeated viewings and allows one to concentrate on the work's structure as well as how the creative team's inventiveness, brevity, and economy of effort produce maximum comic results. The bottom line is that only one of the four actors stays within a role throughout the performance (the hero, Richard Hannay). The other three actors take on more than 100 characters
Rebecca Dines, Mark Anderson Phillips, Dan Hiatt, and Cassidy Brown
in
The 39 Steps
(Photo by: Mark Kitaoka)
I first saw
The 39 Steps
on Broadway after the original production had moved from the 740-seat
American Airlines Theatre
to the 1,082-seat
Cort Theatre . When the touring production touched down in San Francisco's 1,667-seat
Curran Theatre , the performers were playing to a substantially larger house than they had on Broadway.
Seeing
The 39 Steps
in the 589-seat  Mountain View Center for the Performing Arts  gave a slightly different feel to the production. This auditorium feels wider than either the Cort or Curran and, for this production, set designer
Joe Ragey
has added a slight thrust to the stage (which allows for a wonderful new sight gag involving a
model train ).
Rather than keep everything at the tightly-wound, frantic pace of the original production, director
Robert Kelley
has given his cast some extra time to breathe and add some harmless shtick to their characters (I particularly liked what
Dan Hiatt
did with Mr. McGarrigle).
Dan Hiatt as Mr. McGarrigle (Photo by: Mark Kitaoka)
As Kelley explains in his director's notes: "If
The 39 Steps
makes gentle fun of one of the world's greatest film directors, it also pays homage to Alfred Hitchcock's profound influence on the cinema and his astonishing ability to engage the psyche of his audience. For the actors, director, and designers of our TheatreWorks production,
The 39 Steps
is much more about theatre than film. It is an invitation to invention, an opportunity to translate the miracles of the silver screen into both the magic and the mishap of live theatre -- all with tongue firmly in cheek. Using every theatrical trick in the book, it relies heavily on the imagination of the audience and the creativity of a crackerjack cast. It's a celebration of the creative process, a feast of theatricality, and a huge artistic challenge. For the actors, it is at once a nightmare and a delight. For the director and designers, it's a fiendish
Rubik's cube
that is both exciting and addictive. For the sound designer contemplating some 50 Hitchcock films overflowing with mood setting music, it is a
cornucopia
of compelling possibilities."
Rebecca Dines and Mark Anderson Phillips in
The 39 Steps
Photo by: Tracy Martin
Under Kelley's astute direction, the four-actor ensemble ( Rebecca Dines , Dan Hiatt,
Mark Anderson Phillips , and Cassidy Brown acquitted themselves handsomely throughout the evening. My only regret was Kelley's choice to close a set of curtains in order to facilitate several set changes (which occasionally caused the show to lose some of its rapidly  building momentum). Since that didn't matter at all to the audience (which has having itself a roaring good time), this seems like a
moot point .   The 39 Steps
continues through February 13th at the Mountain View Center for the Performing Arts.
Posted by
geoheymont
at
4:12 PM
0
comments
Saturday, January 22, 2011
Sisyphean Challenges
Some dramas begin with a great deal of promise but slowly lose their direction. Others implode under their own weight.
For actors and directors involved in bringing these stories to life, the challenges can be daunting, intoxicating, even terrifying. There's supposed to be a big payoff in the script, but where is it? How can they find it?
Even more important: How can they successfully communicate the story's payoff to an audience?
In
Greek mythology , a crafty, greedy king named
Sisyphus
dared to consider himself on a par with the gods. Although charged with the role of
hospitality , Sisyphus often killed his guests and wallowed in the sadistic pleasures of exerting his dominance over travelers and unsuspecting victims. A murderer and
trickster
who  managed to outwit even
Thanatos
(death) temporarily, Sisyphus was given a punishment to fit his crimes.
Forced to keep pushing a huge boulder up a hill, each time Sisyphus neared the top of the hill, the boulder would break loose, fall back to its starting position, and force Sisyphus to start all over again. Talk about a "never ending story"!
Two recent dramatic outings left me wondering about the willingness of talented and willing actors to embrace scripts containing Sisyphean challenges. As the old saying goes, "Beware of Greeks bearing gifts."
* * * * * * * * * * * * The most important thing to understand about  Barney's Version  is that Barney Palofsky is a total  schmuck . A friendly schmuck, to be sure. And at times a cuddly, lovable schmuck. Sometimes Barney resembles a good-hearted schlemiel who honestly tries to make the world a better place.
But no matter how you look at things, Barney remains a classic, free-wheeling schmuck who thinks with his dick. He's the kind of schmuck who, in an inebriated act of self-indulgence, leaves his second bride at their wedding reception to chase after a woman he just saw across the room and impulsively decided he must have as his third wife. He's that kind of a schmuck.
Minnie Driver as the second Mrs. Palofsky in  Barney'sVersion
Based on
Mordechai Richler's
last novel, the audience watches Barney's life unfold as he progresses through three marriages and finally ends up emotionally numbed by senile
dementia . Along the way we see Barney with Clara ( Rachelle Lefevre ), the tough as nails beauty he knocked up and married in
Rome . We see him succumb to the sexual and financial temptations of his second wife ( Minnie Driver ), a wealthy
Jewish-Canadian princess
whose obsession with shopping is matched by her family's horror at the antics of Barney's father ( Dustin Hoffman ), a retired police officer who gives his favorite gun to his son as a wedding present.
Paul Giamatti and Dustin Hoffman in
Barney's Version
The two most important figures in Barney's life are his third wife, Miriam ( Rosamund Pike ), and his former drinking buddy, Boogie ( Scott Speedman ), who allow the painfully average Barney to bask in the shadows of their physical and intellectual beauty. After Barney walks in on Boogie screwing Barney's second wife, a very drunken argument leads to Boogie's untimely demise. But since Barney was far too drunk to remember what happened, the mystery of Boogie's death remains unsolved until the very end of the movie (by which time no one really cares).
A great deal of
Barney's Version
unravels with the messiness of a chronic drunk's weaving footsteps and staggering gait. Although the film is brought to life by some wonderful character actors -- ranging from
Paul Giammati's
Barney to Dustin Hoffman's Izzy -- the film is as messy as Barney's life (which does not mean that it is anywhere near as entertaining or interesting as it might seem to the person who drank his way through it).
As layered and complex as Giammati's acting may be, he is left eating the crumbs left behind by Rosamund Pike, Scott Speedman, and Minnie Driver. Dustin Hoffman gets one of the funnier death scenes in recent years. But even such a grandly ironic scene cannot hold the rest of this rambling script together. Here's the trailer:
* * * * * * * * * * * * Bone To Pick  and  Diadem  are two one-act plays that draw their inspiration from the myth of
Ariadne , daughter of King  Minos  of
Crete  and sister to the
Minotaur  (who, for the sake of argument, we'll call Bruce).  The ravishing young bride of
Theseus , Ariadne was humped and dumped on the island of
Naxos
during her honeymoon. After the opening night performance of the
Cutting Ball Theatre Company's
double bill of
monologues
by playwright in residence,
Eugenie Chan ,  I found myself wrestling with a curious enigma:  Can a monologue be too wordy?
Can a monologue contain too much text and too little drama?
Can a playwright load a monologue up with too much background information for an audience to digest in a short period of time?
Put more simply: Can a monologue drown under the weight of too much exposition?
Paige Rogers as Ariadne in
Diadem
(Photo by: Rob Melrose)
A controversial figure who also plays a key role in
Richard Strauss's
opera,
Ariadne auf Naxos , the princess bride of Crete (who told Theseus how to defeat the Minotaur) comes turbocharged with enough
back story
to tempt any playwright. After all, if your father is busily sacrificing beautiful young
Athenian
boys and girls to the angry monster that emerged from your mother's loins, bestiality might put a whole new spin on the question "Am I my brother's keeper?" Consider these salient points from
dramaturg
Megan Cohen's program notes:
"We know that Ariadne's mother
Pasiphae
was the daughter of the sun god
Helios
and the nymph
Perseis . We know that although Pasiphae was an
adulteress
who lay with a
bull , she would not tolerate any
infidelity
from her husband Minos; she bewitched him with an herbal potion which ensured that if he lay with another woman, he would ejaculate
serpents
and
scorpions
who would slaughter his paramour from the inside out.  We know this is the woman who raised Ariadne, who set her expectations for how men and women treat each other." Having embraced the challenge of such rich source material, the real test lies in choosing what to use and what to exclude. That, I fear, is where Ms. Chen may have bitten off more than the folks at Cutting Ball could reasonably chew.
After the initial success of
Bone To Pick
(at 2008's Avant GardARAMA!), Chen was commissioned to write a prequel (which could show how Ariadne ended up stranded on Naxos). The result ( Diadem ) is meant to form a double bill with
Bone To Pick
(which shows Ariadne, some 3,000 years later, stuck in what seems like a diner in the
Deep South
where the gods are still crazy).
Paige Rogers as Ria in
Bone To Pick
(Photo by: Rob Melrose)
About 15 minutes into each piece, I had the strangest reaction. Seduced by the magnificent
soundscapes
created by the brilliant
Cliff Carruthers
and appropriately awed by
Heather Basarab's
brilliant lighting, I found myself losing interest in Ariadne's story.
This was in no way the fault of
Paige Rogers
who, in addition to memorizing a tremendously complex text, gave her all as Ariadne in the first piece and Ria in the second.
Nor was it due to any problem with
Michael Locher's
brilliant unit set.
Nor could I pinpoint any problem with
Rob Melrose's
direction.
Paige Rogers as Ria in
Bone To Pick
(Photo by: Rob Melrose)
Mae West  liked to claim that "Too much of a good thing can be wonderful." Sometimes it can simply be too much.
Whereas there are some lovely moments of writing by Ms. Chen, they tend to get smothered by a huge retelling of Greek mythology that has less to do with action than it does with a recitation of blood lineage and past history. Much of the writing, though it may be clear to those working on this project, remains quite confusing for the audience.
Posted by
geoheymont
at
4:21 PM
0
comments
Thursday, January 20, 2011
Three Fine Docs -- See How They Run!
Shortly after he took over the leadership of the
New York City Opera ,
Julius Rudel
secured funding from the
Ford Foundation
which allowed him to produce three seasons devoted entirely to American operas. Over the course of its history, the New York City Opera has performed more than 60 American operas. Among its nearly 25 world premieres are:
Aaron Copland's
The Tender Land (1954)
Robert Kurka's
The Good Soldier Schweik (1958)
Robert Ward's
The Crucible (1961)
Carlisle Floyd's
The Passion of Jonathan Wade (1962)
Jack Beeson's
Lizzie Bordon (1965)
Ned Rorem's
Miss Julie (1965)
Dominick Argento's
Miss Havisham's Fire (1979)
Anthony Davis's
X: The Life and Times of Malcolm X (1986).
Hugo Weisgall's
Esther (1993).
Recognizing the financial challenges faced by documentary filmmakers, the Ford Foundation recently announced a new program entitled
Just Films
that will provide $50 million for documentary films focused on social issues. This program recognizes the need to support the documentary as an art form as well as help provide new distribution channels for work by documentary filmmakers.
For some documentarians, their topics may be better off framed in a short (than feature-length) film. Rather than aiming for a full 90-120 minutes, some topics are more appropriately showcased in an hour-long documentary that can fit well within the programming demands of television and educational institutions.
I recently watched very impressive three short docs. Each one deals with important subject matter, has huge social ramifications, and focuses on the weaknesses of the human spirit. Although hugely valuable as educational tools, each film tells audiences what they
need
to hear, rather than what they
want
to hear.
* * * * * * * * The release of
Pare Lorentz's
documentary entitled
Nuremberg: Its Lesson For Today  offers modern audiences a chance to witness footage that was never released in the United States but was shown throughout Germany following World War II. This documentary is also important because it commemorates the first time that film was actually used as part of the prosecution's plan to indict the Nazis with material taken from their very own film archives.
Finding incriminating footage was easier said than done (some of it was actively being destroyed by Nazi sympathizers).  Budd Schulberg
(who had written " What Makes Sammy Run? " in 1941) apprehended
Leni Riefenstahl  as a material witness at her country home in
Kitzbühl, Austria . He subsequently took her to the
Nuremberg
editing room to help the
OSS
team identify the Nazi figures in her films as well as other German film material they had captured. His brother,
Stuart Schulberg , who took possession of the photo archive of
Heinrich Hoffmann
(Hitler’s personal photographer), became the unit’s expert on still photo evidence. As Stuart Schulberg wrote:
“The greatest technical difficulty involved the use of original recorded testimony from the trial itself. It was important, if the film’s authenticity was to be convincing, that
Goering
and his colleagues speak their lame lines of defense in their own, well-known voices...It became necessary to secure the wax recordings of the proceedings stored in
Nuremberg , to re-record the pertinent words on film and then to synchronize that sound recording with the lip movements of the respective defendants...Many weeks after the original request, the records arrived from Nuremberg. The discs were re-recorded on film in half of one day. About a month later the meticulous job of ‘ dubbing ’ the original voices of the defendants was completed.”
Marine Corps Sgt. Stuart Schulberg
Stuart Schulberg and
Joseph Zigman's
78-minute film was first shown to an audience in
Stuttgart
on November 21, 1948. The reason the film was never shown in the United States may well have been because its producers could not negotiate a distribution deal with any of the Hollywood film studios.
Watching the documentary today offers a fascinating look at a critical moment in the 20th century when key Nazis were tried before an international court. Considering how easily people throw the word "Nazi" around in today's media, it's especially important for younger generations to see what the real thing looks like. It also offers some terrible but valuable insights into what some Americans did at
Abu Ghraib . Here's the trailer:
* * * * * * * * Hailed far and wide as the quintessential American sport,
baseball
has had its share of racial and ethnic controversies. Narrated by
Dustin Hoffman ,
Peter Miller's
documentary,
Jews and Baseball: An American Love Story , details the many Jewish men who became major league baseball stars.   Steve Kluger's
powerful novel,
The Last Days of Summer , and
Desmond Nakano's
2007 film,
American Pastime , demonstrate how baseball played an important role in
America's Japanese internment camps
during
World War II .
While
Jackie Robinson
was hailed far and wide as the first black major league baseball player, fewer people know the story of the first openly gay major league baseball player. As Ted Griggs, Vice President and General Manager of
Comcast SportsNet
Bay Area explains:
“As an East Bay native, I knew all about
Glenn Burke’s
legendary athletic feats at
Berkeley High . I followed his career with the Dodgers and A’s throughout the late 1970s and watched and read with great interest when he came out on
The Today Show
with
Bryant Gumbel  and in
Inside Sports Magazine . I was saddened by his tragic death and thought at the time that his was a compelling story that should be told one day. This documentary allows Glenn’s family, friends, and teammates to tell that story, and it is enhanced with the narration of
Dave Morey , one of the most respected voices in Bay Area radio.” Out: The Glenn Burke Story , is a gripping documentary that shows just how vicious America's
homophobia
was in our not-so-distant past. Based on Burke's autobiography, " Out At Home: The Glenn Burke Story " (which was written while he was dying of
AIDS
and living with his sister), it features a wealth of talking heads ranging from Burke's classmates and teammates to sports journalists and
Billy Bean
(a former MLB player who came out after he retired from professional baseball).
The documentary focuses on the
Oakland
native who, at first, seemed destined for a career in professional
basketball
but, instead, ended up making headlines in baseball. From 1976-1979, Burke played for the
Los Angeles Dodgers
and
Oakland Athletics . A multi-talented player and much beloved teammate, he ran smack up against the rampant homophobia that has always been a part of the professional sports world.
While this film interviews many of Burke's former teammates, it also focuses its lens on where America was at that time of Burke's initial success.
Anita Bryant
was busily rampaging against the evils of the gay lifestyle. In California, the
Briggs initiative
was aimed at preventing LGBT from teaching in schools. By 1980,
Harvey Milk
had been assassinated in City Hall and word was spreading about a mysterious " gay cancer ."
The first professional baseball player who was upfront about his homosexuality with his teammates, Burke died of AIDS in 1995 (long before
Richard Greenberg's
award-winning play,
Take Me Out , explored homophobia in baseball). But Burke's career was no less dramatic.
After the management of the Dodgers tried to bribe him into an old fashioned Hollywood
marriage of convenience , Burke started hanging out with the gay son of
Tommy Lasorda
(the team's manager). In 1991, when “Spunky” Lasorda died of AIDS, his estranged father refused to acknowledge that his son was gay.  The only major force in Burke's career who was not interviewed for this documentary, Lasorda is nevertheless quoted as saying “My son wasn’t gay. No way. I read that in a paper. I also read that a lady gave birth to a fucking monkey. That’s not the truth.”
Glenn Burke
After Burke left professional baseball, he competed in the 1982 and 1986
Gay Games
and was active in San Francisco's
gay softball leagues . Unfortunately, heavy partying took its toll as Burke became addicted to
cocaine
and eventually became homeless. He died on May 30, 1995 at the age of 42.
Out: The Story of Glenn Burke
offers painful reminders of the kind of bigotry that has been rampant in professional sports as well as a glimpse into the horrors of
homelessness
and the early years of the AIDS epidemic. Here's the trailer:
* * * * * * * * * First Lady Michelle Obama's
campaign to improve nutrition and reduce
childhood obesity
has received plenty of media coverage (including the recent announcement that
Wal-Mart
will reduce the amount of fats, sugars, and salt in the packaged foods it distributes under its own brand name). However, the challenges of purchasing healthy food can be daunting for those on a limited budget.
Many conservatives love to complain about " welfare queens
who are living on  food stamps " as a way of criticizing social programs designed to help the poor.  Several years ago, a few members of Congress decided to see just how difficult it was to survive on food stamps (the monthly allotment boils down to approximately one dollar per person per meal).
Considering how many Americans are currently unemployed and struggling to feed their families,  Food Stamped
(which will be screened at the upcoming
13th San Francisco Indie Film Festival ) is very much a documentary for today's America. In this educational short,
Shira Potash
(a certified nutritional educator) and her filmmaker husband, Yoav,  spend a week taking " the food stamp challenge ."
Yoav and Shira Potash in the supermarket
While
Food Stamped
tries to frame its message in as entertaining a format as possible, there is no escaping the fact that the people who made this film are not trapped in a cycle of poverty and/or joblessness. Shiva and Yoav may be willing to give up dessert and cheese for a week in order to show just what can be accomplished through the careful use of food stamps when grocery shopping, visiting farmers' markets, searching out free food samples, and occasionally dumpster diving, but they also live in a nice, clean house, have a functioning automobile, and are in excellent health.
With that caveat, the film provides an upbeat educational tool which can help educate those who criticize the food stamp program while relieving some of the stigma and humiliation from those who are about to enter the food stamp program.
Food Stamped
is not meant to focus on issues like depression, humiliation, and alienation. Instead, it shows how instilling the basics of nutrition in schoolchildren at an early age can help them develop valuable coping skills for subsequent adult and family crises. Here's the trailer:
Posted by
geoheymont
at
5:22 PM
0
comments
Newer Posts
Older Posts
Home
Subscribe to:
Posts (Atom)
There was an error in this gadget
MAKE A DONATION!
George Heymont
Subscribe Now!
Posts
Atom
Posts
All Comments
Atom
All Comments
Subscribe via email
Enter your email address: Delivered by
FeedBurner
ME AND MY TOWN
About The Author
Tales of Tessi Tura
Miscellaneous Articles
Profiles and Interviews
Alert & Oriented
A Dying Art Form
Dictation Therapy For Doctors
See My Work on Huffington Post
SEARCH THE INTERNET
Enter your search terms
Submit search form
A DESPERATE GRASP ON REALITY
Raw Story
Daily Kos
AmericaBlog
AmericaBlog Gay
Salon.com
Huffington Post
Blog Archive
October 2015
(8)
September 2015
(9)
August 2015
(6)
July 2015
(12)
June 2015
(11)
May 2015
(8)
April 2015
(7)
March 2015
(9)
February 2015
(8)
January 2015
(6)
December 2014
(7)
November 2014
(11)
October 2014
(8)
September 2014
(9)
August 2014
(11)
July 2014
(13)
June 2014
(13)
May 2014
(11)
April 2014
(10)
March 2014
(8)
February 2014
(7)
January 2014
(8)
December 2013
(8)
November 2013
(10)
October 2013
(9)
September 2013
(14)
August 2013
(7)
July 2013
(11)
June 2013
(19)
May 2013
(9)
April 2013
(12)
March 2013
(19)
February 2013
(8)
January 2013
(11)
December 2012
(9)
November 2012
(13)
October 2012
(8)
September 2012
(16)
August 2012
(10)
July 2012
(16)
June 2012
(17)
May 2012
(17)
April 2012
(11)
March 2012
(16)
February 2012
(14)
January 2012
(13)
December 2011
(11)
November 2011
(12)
October 2011
(17)
September 2011
(18)
August 2011
(16)
July 2011
(11)
June 2011
(19)
May 2011
(15)
April 2011
(15)
March 2011
(16)
February 2011
(13)
January 2011
(11)
December 2010
(10)
November 2010
(16)
October 2010
(18)
September 2010
(17)
August 2010
(17)
July 2010
(13)
June 2010
(16)
May 2010
(14)
April 2010
(14)
March 2010
(20)
February 2010
(11)
January 2010
(12)
December 2009
(11)
November 2009
(17)
October 2009
(21)
September 2009
(16)
August 2009
(12)
July 2009
(15)
June 2009
(16)
May 2009
(16)
April 2009
(9)
March 2009
(19)
February 2009
(18)
January 2009
(17)
December 2008
(12)
November 2008
(14)
October 2008
(16)
September 2008
(16)
August 2008
(16)
July 2008
(19)
June 2008
(10)
December 2007
(153)
November 2007
(125)
There was an error in this gadget