Cocktails in Charleston: Road Trip: Vegas, Baby!
Cocktails in Charleston
Working My Way Through 1000 Recipes, One Drink at a Time
Tuesday, August 23, 2011
Road Trip: Vegas, Baby!
Our
friends Snappy and Grey invited us to join them at their place in Las
Vegas, and you know there's no way we're going to pass up an invitation
like that, so we headed out West for Happy Hour. Multiple happy hours, really, with
the occasional sad moment - as when Barry Manilow cancelled his show at
the last minute due to "unforeseen circumstances". Sometimes, when
disaster strikes, you seek out sweet solace in a
Lemon Drop Martini , or in a
Tahitian Pineapple
(they're serious about the pineapple at the
Grand Lux ), or - if you're Grey - in whiskey. Grey may have gotten the better end of that deal. Sometimes the stars align, and you go to a show that isn't cancelled at the last minute, and you celebrate seeing
Blue Man Group
by having blue (and red) cocktails at
AquaKnox Bar . And if I ever remember anything else about those drinks, I will be sure to let you know. One thing I do remember -
Noodle Asia
is the place to go to satisfy your late night Dan Dan cravings. We then headed off to San Diego for cocktails with DP's sister and brother-in-law. They are on a most excellent
Manhattan
kick these days, using
Bulleit bourbon
to make a great cocktail - smooth, and sweet, and smokey. So good! Loved the bourbon, which apparently is known for it's
high rye content
(Snappy, take note). Loved the bottle. Loved
Bencotto , too, where we had nicely bitter Pomegranate Negronis (Campari, Sweet Vermouth, Plymouth Gin, and Pomegranate liqueur) and refreshing Cynar Citrus Cocktails (Campari, Cynar, Orange Juice, Blood Orange), and citrus punched Blood Orange Sodas (Prosecco, Grand Marnier, Blood Orange). Absolutely delicious. Then it was back to Vegas for dinner at
Border Grill
to see if
Mary Sue Milliken's
food is as good as it looked on
Top Chef Masters
(answer: yes!) and to have a Fresh Black Cherry Mojito (Fresh Black Cherries, Cruzan Black Cherry Rum, Fresh Lime, Mint, Sparkling Soda). A sweet sticky cherry coke-esque concoction, and a nice way to wrap up our trip. Now we're back home and ready to take on the next drinks in the
Guide : the Champagne Normande (Champagne, Calvados, Sugar, Angostura Bitters, Lime Slice), the Champagne Julep (Champagne, Sugar, Fresh Mint), and the Champagne Cooler (Champagne, Brandy, Cointreau, Fresh Mint).
The festivities never end!
Posted by
Samuel Bebee
at
12:35 PM
Labels:
Bourbon ,
Cynar ,
Las Vegas ,
Negroni ,
Road Trip
No comments:
Post a Comment
Newer Post
Older Post
Home
Subscribe to:
Post Comments (Atom)
Simple template. Powered by
Blogger .