Manhattan: Making Brandied Cherries | Abstract Connectivity - 'Turn up the AC!' Blog
Abstract Connectivity – 'Turn up the AC!' Blog
"making and maintaining connections between those considered apart from concrete existence"
RSS
about abstract connectivity
Manhattan: Making Brandied Cherries
Manhattan Begins....
A small, but crucial, element of the
Manhattan cocktail  is the cherry waiting for you at the bottom of the glass.  As we’ve become a little obsessed about mixing the perfect Manhattan, traditional maraschino cherries have become less and less appealing.  Why you ask?  This sentence from
Wikipedia
just about sums it up “In their modern form, the cherries are first preserved in a brine solution usually containing sulfur dioxide and calcium chloride to bleach the fruit, then soaked in a suspension of food coloring (common red food dye, FD&C Red 40), sugar syrup, and other components”.  Sulfur dioxide, calcium chloride, red food dye, sugar syrup (of the high fructose corn syrup variety), and ‘other components’.  Um, no thanks.  However, you can’t make a proper Manhattan without a cherry, so our search continued.
At
Whole Foods
we found
Tillen Farms Merry Maraschino Cherries : no red dye, made with pure cane sugar, and preservative free.  The color is darker than you’re typical maraschino, but the flavor is pretty comparable.  We can live with, and enjoy, Tillen Farms’ cherries.  But, if you know us, then you know we like to Do It Yourself ( DIY
will probably become an overused term in the coming posts)!  Enter making brandied cherries.
We saw a recipe in
Imbibe Magazine’s Nov/Dec 2010
issue and tweaked it after reading this
recipe
on Sloshed.
Cherries Simmering
Here’s our go at it:
1.5 lb Sweet Cherries (we chose not to pit them as mentioned in Slosh)
1/2 cup Sugar
1/2 Water
1/2 oz Fresh Lemon Juice
1 Cinnamon Stick
1 tsp Vanilla Extract
Pinch of Ground Nutmeg
3/4 cup + 1/8 cup Brandy
1/8 cup Maraschino Juice from Tillen Farms Merry Maraschino Cherries
Bring sugar, water, lemon juice, cinnamon stick, vanilla, and nutmeg to a boil in a medium saucepan.  Reduce heat to medium.  Add cherries and simmer for 5 minutes.  Remove from heat, take out the cinnamon stick, and add brandy and maraschino cherry juice.  Stir and let cool.  When cool, pour into quart jar with lid.  Cap and store in refrigerator for 2 weeks.
Brandied Cherries
Note: Neither recipe allowed for or mentioned ‘soaking time’….or time for the flavors to meld before using.  We had our first cherries the day we made them, and think they taste like cherry pie.  We’re not sure if that’s
the  flavor we were going for, but we think that the cherries will definitely improve with time.
Until then, we’ll raise our Manhattans and say “Cheers!”.
Rate this: Share this: Email Facebook Twitter Print Like this: Like
Loading...
30/05/2011
abstract connectivity
Categories:  Beverages
Tags:  Brandied Cherries Recipe ,
Cocktail Recipes ,
Cocktails ,
Manhattan Cocktail
1 responses to “Manhattan: Making Brandied Cherries”
Heather
May 30th, 2011 at 20:22
Nice — I don’t feel compelled to make my own but am glad to learn there’s some available at Whole Foods for my first ever Tequila Sunrise popsicles, which call for a single maraschino in each pop!
Keep me posted on your future trials.
In hindsight, the creepy candy color of a “traditional” maraschino ought to raise red flags.
(Creepy artificial red flags – heh heh!)
Reply
Leave a Reply
Cancel reply
Enter your comment here...
Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:
Email
(required)
(Address never made public)
Name
(required)
Website
You are commenting using your WordPress.com account.
(  Log Out  /  Change  )
You are commenting using your Twitter account.
(  Log Out  /  Change  )
You are commenting using your Facebook account.
(  Log Out  /  Change  )
You are commenting using your Google+ account.
(  Log Out  /  Change  )
Cancel
Connecting to %s
Notify me of new comments via email.
«
Things I think about at 1am
Manhattan – The Recipe
»
You may have missed…
You may have missed…
Select Month
June 2011
May 2011
September 2010
August 2010
July 2010
June 2010
Categories
Categories
Select Category
…and I didn’t even know it
Beverages
ramblings
I wrote this!
abstract connectivity
would you like an email subscription?
Enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Join 3 other followers
Blog at WordPress.com . |
The Dark Wood Theme .
Follow
Follow “Abstract Connectivity - 'Turn up the AC!' Blog”
Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.
Build a website with WordPress.com
Send to Email Address
Your Name
Your Email Address
Cancel
Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
%d
bloggers like this: