GVPTA | Vancouver Live Theatre News
GVPTA: Greater Vancouver Professional Theatre Alliance
What We Do
Theatre Guide
Unified General Auditions
Blog
Making a Scene
Casting the Net
World Theatre Day
Resources
Advocacy
Links
Workshops & Mentorships
Who We Are
Mandate
History
Staff & Board
Member Companies
Contact
Get Involved
Membership
Company
Individual
Frequent Buyer Card
Stay Informed
Support Us
Contributors
Individual Donations
Sponsorship
Login
Individuals
Van Theatre Guide
Facebook Twitter
Archive for February, 2012
« Older Entries
First Impression of a Hunchback
Monday, February 27th, 2012
~
Carmel Amit
A first impression takes seconds to form. It is almost impossible to undo.
This is true for people and it is true for the opening moment of a performance. I attended the opening night of
Hunchback
by Catalyst Theatre, presented by the Playhouse Theatre Company and The Cultch. The opening scene won me over at once. A dimly-lit stage gave a glimpse of the cage-like contraptions symbolizing cathedral arches. The spotlight was on our master of ceremonies in a neo-gothic getup as he seductively invited us into the merciless world of obsessive love in the shadows of Notre Dame during the year 1482.
The costume and set design was bold in Catalyst Theatre style and the actors were passionate and committed. Although I had mixed feelings about certain elements of the production, the opening moments made such an impression on me that I was with them for the duration of nearly three hours.
In real life, first impressions are very hard to control because we are being judged by facial structure and facial tics that we are rarely aware of. In the theatre, we can manipulate this first moment because it isn’t based on the biological survival mechanism. A director, along with his design team and actors, can create an atmosphere, a feeling, a mood. They can create tension or nostalgia. They can use lighting, music or sound to aid them. In
Hunchback , it was a mysterious, dark world that I was being lured into; the unknown, with a tension of “anything could happen.”
It struck me that as an actor I have to be able to create such moments in an audition. I have to win them over in the first few seconds and the rest will follow in toe. If I don’t capture their hearts…. their
attention
right from the start, or worse, if I falter and appear weak or incompetent, they may never forgive me.
So how to mesmerize casting directors in an audition room? How do we as actors craft an opening moment that is unforgettable? It is all about the opening moment.
Thoughts any one?
As for Quasimodo, he was hardly one for good first impressions. But he did in the end succeed in winning Esmeralda’s heart. He did it through the goodness of his heart.
Posted in
Uncategorized
|
No Comments »
Intimate theatre allows for more Audience Engagement
Friday, February 24th, 2012
~ Damon Jang
One thing that really intrigues me is intimate theatre – the kind of one-on-one, small-scale experiences that have been happening recently in Vancouver musical theatre. More and more performers have been self-producing, or cooperatively producing small intimate musicals.
Does the size of a production have any correlation to how engaging the end product is? In my opinion I say no, absolutely not. Two Equity co-ops that emerged this season were the all-female 4-hander “The Marvelous Wonderettes” from Hey look it’s a Co-op and all-male 4-hander “Glory Days” from The boys upstairs equity co-op.  Both shows were presented in small theatres spaces and had very little in terms of the “traditional conventions” one associates with musical theatre. There were no big chorus numbers, no quick costume changes, no opulent sets that flew in and out via a fly gallery.
It is in fact the bigger challenge to the performer to keep the audience engaged without these conventions. It requires artists to think diligently about every show and what rules they are playing by. But that being said, having the bare bones gives the audience an opportunity to really focus on the story development. While the Wonderette ladies spin original stories about their hopes and dreams using well-known hits of the 50s and 60s, the Glory Days boys have at their disposal original, catchy, smart, and socially-relevant lyrics and harmonies written in the pop/rock genre. In both examples it is the tight-knit singing that really makes the experience and propels the story so there is no need for other devices.
One could argue that a resource-heavy theatre is more accessible to the masses, makes its experiences more memorable and engaging.  But there is a rising tide of work that asks single or small number of audience members to connect with a small group of performers that create meaningful, memorable shows.  I feel more engagement with individuals in a smaller house vs in a large scale production sitting in the back row of a 1300 seat theatre. Not to say I don’t enjoy the big shows – I’ve been in more large-scale shows than small ones myself – but I feel very privileged to be a city with such a diversity of shows presented and would gladly welcome the possibility of more musical shows on a smaller scale.
Posted in
Uncategorized
|
No Comments »
My Commitment to Theatre School
Friday, February 24th, 2012
~ Carmel Amit
Theatre school is a magical place and a time for risk taking, boundary breaking and even falling flat on your face. I remember taking my classes so seriously you’d think I was learning how to perform brain surgery. It seems almost silly now but at the time I was absorbed and the limits were endless. The competition was fierce and according to the instruction one could always go deeper. It is true that most of what I have learned from school or my professional experience was actually honed after school was all over. But the focus was pin pointed and the stakes were high.
So I was very excited to attend
The Crucible
by Arthur Miller and performed by the students at Capilano University.
The Crucible
is a huge play with big characters, loaded political commentary and of course, huge stakes. It’s a perfect play to perform in theatre school. Not to mention that it has 17 characters, 8 of which are female. This play has been canonized as a central work of American Drama. The blueprint is rich and that makes for an amazing opportunity for students to test their wings.
Watching the play only reminded me how precious a time it was and how important my formal education was in pointing me in the right direction to becoming an artist.
I believe every actor should go to theatre school or invest in study in some capacity. Of course it only works with willing participants but for me it was a place for self-discovery and huge personal growth. I had the opportunity to work on my craft every single day. I developed life long friendships and shared more of myself in that setting that I ever could in life after school.
Most importantly, the training gave me the tools needed for dealing with particularly difficult characters, those that don’t come so naturally. Like a painter or a musician who must study to acquire technical proficiency, so must the actor learn the tools and the tricks to help him be somewhat in control of his creation. I believe that a rich and concentrated environment such as theatre school is crucial in the development of an artist.
Nowhere since those three years have I come across such a unanimously motivated and passionate group be it in film or theatre. That doesn’t mean such an environment doesn’t exist in the professional world and I look forward to finding it.
I believe bravery is a great quality in an actor and the safety net of theatre school helped me learn that no matter what I do or experiment with, whether I come out triumphant or flat on my face I will only grow and develop as I test myself and break through barriers.
So to all actors thinking of studying in a professional program… DO. To those who are in school take this time and opportunity to give it your all. And to those who have studied, don’t stop.
Posted in
Uncategorized
|
No Comments »
So What Works For You? Yes – You!
Friday, February 24th, 2012
~ Frances Kitson
A couple of weeks ago, I wrote about how I’d had enough of being poor, and had decided that it was time for a day job. By this I mean a day job that would pay some actual money, and not a miminum-wage-or-just-barely-more-than job. I’m broke, it sucks, and I’d rather not take twenty years to pay off my student loans.
Next question is, of course, where to look for said day job. Here, things can get very complicated very fast, because there are just so many freaking options. Sometimes, choice really
is
a problem.
What I’ve realized is that every job is going to have its drawbacks. It might not be super-interesting. Or it might be too interesting. Or it might not be very flexible. Or it might be too flexible – fluctuating hours, etc.
The solution to this, I think, is to just get out there and research, network, apply, repeat. Any action is better than none. Don’t spent time worrying about whether or not something is going to work out, because that way lies perfectionist paralysis. Nothing is going to be perfect, so stop looking for perfection, make something happen, and then work with it.
[Self-indulgent sidenote: Can I tell you what my dream day job would be? Please? Oh goody – it would be working in Corporate Communications for Canadian Heritage. It’s the public sector. It’s an organization about whose focus I get geekily excited. I’d be speaking in French half the time. I’d have fun working on project that I actually felt mattered. Man, I would just be bounding into work!
Or the CBC. I’d take
anything
at the CBC. I was in giddy transports of delight last week when my letter – first one ever! – was the letter of the day on Q. Oh my gosh – the thrillometer went off the scale. PLUS I got to hear Jian Ghomeshi’s dulcet tones read my name aloud. Sigh…]
Here’s the other thing I realized: there is a middle ground between ignoring my student loan debts and sacrificing acting for their sake. I know people who have made – or are making – lots of money by working in places like Fort St. John, northern Alberta, and Nunavut, and I was musing on the possibility of doing something similar. But I don’t feel now is the time for me. There might come a time when taking six months off to work in a remote location and come home with a pile of cash feels like the right thing to do, but this isn’t it. I’m too invested right now in gaining traction in this burgeoning career of mine.
However. That
doesn’t
automatically consign me to ten years of minimum payments on my credit card, staring glumly at the helpful note on my bill informing me how many more years it will take at that rate. (You can tell it wasn’t VISA’s idea to print that.) I live on very little now; if I get a better- (read: decently-) paying job and continue to live at more or less the same standard (with exceptions made for such essentials as tickets to the ballet), then the debts can be overcome.
Furthermore, if an acting career really is, according to what is rapidly becoming my favourite quote, an octopus rather than a straight line (thanks to Dawn Brennan for that), then there is still lots of time in which to take four months off and survey northern Alberta for forest fires, bathing once a week out of a bucket. I still seem to be operating along this unconscious assumption that I will at some point launch into an acting career that will feature constant projects for which I must constantly be available. Ha. (Dear brain: if you could cease and desist from presenting options in rigid, absolute, black vs. white terms, that would be very much appreciated. Yours, Frances.)
But here’s what I want to know: how have
you
done it? Seriously. If you accumulated debts, decided you were tired of being broke, and somehow addressed that situation WITHOUT totally giving up on theatre, how did you do it? What worked for you? What do you wish you’d done differently? What’s working for you now?
There is
no
need to provide me with advice (unless it’s a hobby of yours, in which I wouldn’t dream of interfering). I just want to hear your story.
If you’d rather not leave a comment below, then email me:
kitson.frances@gmail.com . I’ll probably write about what I learned in a future post, but I won’t mention your story or your name without asking you.
Go on then. Write me! I dare you…
Posted in
Uncategorized
|
No Comments »
My Evening of Wonder(ettes)
Friday, February 24th, 2012
~ From Audience Member, Diana Keng
I have a couple of confessions to make. First, I never attended a prom in high school. Sure, there were dances (mostly of the MuchMusic Video variety) but I spent our After Grad playing the Bubble Bobble video game with classmates until the sun came up. And my second confession is that I’ve never attended a reunion, despite the *a-hem* years that have elapsed since graduation.
So attending The Marvellous Wonderettes at the PAL Theatre filled, not one, but two holes in my life that I didn’t even realize I had. From the moment guests enter the foyer, they were immersed in the experience of attending Prom, with a capital “P”. The decorations, the photo stop, the sweet concession offerings … all played a part in creating the cheerful and exhilirating environment of Prom. It’s the exciting time in the lives of four talented girls, teetering on the brink of the great unknown Future, all sound-tracked with the upbeat and optimistic tunes of the bubble-gum 50s. The first act builds on the foyer first impressions of the bright Technicolor world of the graduating class (“GO-o-o-o, Chipmunks!”) and all the drama and hilarities that being a high school girl entails.
And then comes the ten-year reunion. In the second act, Reality sets in with hard truths and broken dreams. The girls we have come to love for their flirtatious, take-on the world attitudes have grown into women with responsibilities, disappointments, and in one case, a very imminent pregnancy. The stories are cleverly interwoven with 60s ballads like “Leader of the Pack” and “Son of a Preacher Man” (turns out they’re the same guy!) and we see some of the fractures in the relationships that appeared at Prom healed by time and the interactions at the reunion.
The Marvellous Wonderettes is a fun and toe-tapping show filled with familiar personalities as well as catchy tunes but more than a production, it’s a great experience that leaves a lovely memory of friendships that outlast the drama.
Posted in
Uncategorized
|
No Comments »
Chutzpah Dance Performance
Friday, February 24th, 2012
~Trilby Jeeves
Where does one start when one has to write about dance performances? If this was a 3 dimensional blog post I would throw up my arms, go on my tiptoes, wiggle my body, exclaim aloud with an impressed gasp, throw myself on the floor with glee, sit and stare at you with a piece of hay dangling from my mouth (for at least 5 minutes to make you wonder), laugh, and hug myself in sheer happiness while staring at you deeply, hoping that you understand how great what I just witnessed was.
Ahh… BUT, I can’t do that. I can tell you, however, how much fun I had watching two dance performances choreographed by
Cherice Barton, and Donald Sales at the Chutzpah Festival
on Monday evening at the
Norman & Annette Rothstein Theatre . The first piece, Ch.3: Collaboration was created by
Azure Barton , and performed by Cherice Barton and Donald Sales. The second piece, “Leaving Grit”, was choreographed by Barton and Sales, and performed by Lara Barclay, Cori Caulfield, Jeffrey Mortensen, Leon Feizo-Gas, Davon Rainey, Kevin Tookey, and Jennifer Welsman.
When I was a little girl I wanted to dance. My parents tried to encourage me, and I ended up in ballet at the Banff School of Fine Arts (now the Banff Centre). The classes didn’t last long for me as I was so little and I really hated doing sit ups, and my teacher was too overzealous for me. I dropped out. I ended up in figure skating and enjoyed that, but I distinctly remember being a bit of a clown there, too. Sigh…
But, to me, dance always seemed to remain the best place for honest expression.
Watching the first piece of the performance was, for me, like watching an abstract painting in movement. At first I wanted to understand intellectually what was unfolding before me, and then I surrendered to the simple pleasure of their interesting movements and the two dancers’ relationship. Bits and pieces of images came forth, but I didn’t need a story.
Then the second piece saddled me up and rustled me along an unexpected trail of stories in a cowboy hat wearing, barmaid flirting Western setting. What a fun ride! Along the way, though, tensions rose, competition provoked fellow players, and sad and dissatisfied undertones happened in the quiet intimate moments. In fact… I cried.
Then there was that moment, that moment inspired by the film “ Once Upon A Time In The West ”! I wanted to jump out of my seat and say “ I
understand!”. Four cowboys, four DANCERS, held the space along with the atmospheric sound track (a fly buzzing, a squeaking weather vane), for a long period, staring out at us. They were waiting. Waiting. And waiting. If you know the film, you will recognize the opening sequence in which almost no words are spoken for 12 whole minutes.
No words spoken. This is the brilliance of movement. And, commitment to the story. These dancers sure knew how to express the story via their bodies. As an actor, and a bouffon/buffoonery instructor, I felt inspired to continue to encourage actors (and myself) to story tell through movement. There is no mediocrity, only clear, clear objectives.
I admire the choreographers’ choices that turned a stage, a few props and sets into an environment that made us as the audience suspend our representational view point. It was like being a kid again.
Thank you for the ride…. No wonder I dreamt about horses that night! And thank you to
The Chutzpah Festival
for keeping the creative juices flowing.
s
Posted in
Uncategorized
|
No Comments »
Chelsea Hotel – featuring the songs of Leonard Cohen
Sunday, February 19th, 2012
~ Robyn Williams-Dann
In my opinion, anything featuring the songs of Leonard Cohen could not go wrong.  I love Leonard Cohen.  I love the man, the lyrics, and the voice…oh the voice.  I was expecting to love this show, and it was in fact, the only show I chose based on title (I still didn’t read anything about the show before selecting it) and not strictly on date.  Lenny  (as my friend John lovingly refers to him, like because they both wear fedoras they’re friends, actually I’m sure if they met they would be) at the
Firehall , good and good!
One of the things I like best about the Firehall is the bar, and that you can take drinks into the theater.  I also love the seating and the stage and the shows are usually pretty great, don’t get me wrong.  I don’t like the fact that if you happen to drink too much before the show (ahem, Fringe) and have to leave by the back exit to use a washroom; the stairs are incredibly creaky and if you make a wrong turn you are shot out onto the street.  But I digress.  Tonight, battling a severe head cold (no longer contagious, but still feeling pretty rough) I strolled up to the bar and was greeted with a
Manhattan .  Oh, this was going to be good.
Once inside the theater my first thought was how cool the set was.  This production, from start to finish was all about the details, starting with the set decor.  A dark hotel room, lit by a single bulb, filled from top to bottom with discarded paper.  The discarded words of our “writer”.   The bed is in fact a tower of thrown away musings.  Heaps of it cover the floor.  The walls are made of paper and also display lost phrases.
The show starts and we find ourselves in the company of The Writer.  He’s not Leonard but a nameless man who is obviously distressed, working (and drinking) at the only piece of furniture not covered in paper and ink, a desk.  From the 1 st
song to the last (and there are 25 in between) we are carried, on the wings of Cohen’s words, through the mind and heart of this man, his loves and his lovers as he tries to find his next inspiration.
Chelsea Hotel
is an original story, using not so original material as muse.  Tracey Powers, who wrote and directed, working with musical director Steve Charles, have choreographed 27 pieces of theatre and dance using 27 of Cohen’s songs and some of his poetry.  It’s not biographical they say, his words were just inspiration.  I found it incredibly brave of Powers and Charles to take the lyrics of a brilliant writer and create original stories around them.  While I don’t know if I totally “got” the story,  what I saw was a man, trying to write, visited and tortured by the apparitions of love, and his many lovers.  Three women, Rachel Aberle, Lauren Bowler and Marlene Ginader play these lovers, while the cast is rounded out by Steve Charles himself and Benjamin Elliot as musicians and a kind of guide through the Writers thoughts.  The writer by the way was played by Adrian Glynn McMorran.
Let me say that the cast was amazingly versatile.  The five actors, dancers, singers, and musicians played an incredible 12 instruments (by my count) between them.  The stand up bass, the cello, the drums, acoustic, bass, and electric guitar, accordion, tambourine, violin, banjo, organ, and kazoo.  Yup kazoo.  About the only instrument that wasn’t played was a Chapman Stick.  And the performers played more than 2 of these instruments.  Each.  It was enough to make someone with no musical talent, who has always been envious of those who do, cry a little inside.  Thank goodness for the stiff drink before the show, and the opportunity for another at intermission.
It was at intermission that I had a thought I wanted to share.  During this particular break in the action, Jason and I went out to plug the meter.  As we were exiting I overheard someone explain that there needed to be an intermission because an hour and 45 was too long to sit.  I thought “no it isn’t, people sit through movies all the time, there are no intermissions in movies.”  Hmmm.
I then asked Jason the quintessential intermission question, what he thought of the show so far.  He was really enjoying it he said, and asked me the same.  I said I also liked it, but wasn’t loving it.  While, like I said, the players were amazingly versatile, and I thought the acting and the dancing was good, I was having trouble with the singing.  I wasn’t enjoying it as much as I thought I would and it was bothering me.  Were the singers not doing the material justice or was Lenny’s voice so iconic that no one could sing or say his words to match my expectations?  Jason thought the latter.  He agreed that Leonard’s voice is so ingrained with his lyrics in our minds that it was a bit odd to hear his music sung with different voices.  In one instance, for example, it was a female cast member who sung I’m Your Man.  He thought that the cast was doing a fine job.
I decided then to have another drink, go back in, and try to stop trying to hear Lenny.  I decided to just listen to the words and watch the interpretation presented to me.  And, low and behold, I did enjoy the second act much more than the first.  Just like with dance and abstract art I had to let go of expectations and just let it happen.  Once I did I was able to enjoy story and think about what it meant to me rather than trying to hear Leonard in the music.
So no, I don’t agree that an hour and 45 minutes is too long to sit in a theater, however, I do sometimes think an intermission is necessary.  If theater is meant to provoke conversation, if that conversation can start mid way through the show sometimes it helps us to process, understand, and enjoy that much more.   I don’t think I would have enjoyed the show – the whole show, as I was able to rethink and experience the first half – nearly as much as I did without the conversation we had out in the rain.
I also really encourage people to stay for the talk back if there is one, to continue the conversation, or jump start one. I always get more out of a show if I get to hear the collaborators discuss it afterwards.  In this talk back, not only was the song count revealed but Adrian Glynn shared that “singing Leonard Cohen’s lyrics is like punching with
Joe Frazier’s
arms.”  It was a lot to live up to for sure, hats off to the whole cast and crew.
P.S.
Did you know that a Manhattans is straight booze?  I didn’t before I ordered, I had just wanted to seem cool and sophisticated.  I wanted you to know in case you try the same thing when you see the show.
Posted in
Uncategorized
|
No Comments »
The Blue Room and Gadfly Productions
Friday, February 17th, 2012
~ Celeste Insell
( http://www. blazingstarchronicles.com )
Wednesday February 15 to Sunday February 19, 2012, Gadfly Productions is presenting a daring and very provocative play entitled “The Blue Room” at the Havana Theatre on Commercial Drive. The play has only been produced a few times and is adapted from the play “Der Reigen” (or “La Ronde”) written by Austrian Playwright Arthur Shnitzler in 1900.
Since its inception, the play has been presented with a great deal of controversy because of the subject matter, which is the attempt to examine the decay of society through sexual practices which transmit disease. When it was first written, in 1900 the transmission of syphilis was a metaphor for the disease plaguing Austrian society; and the play was only performed in private. In fact, when it was finally presented in 1921 to a public audience, it landed the Austrian playwright in jail on obscenity charges.
In the late 1990′s, David Hare adapted the Austrian play to have only a cast of two actors, who play several parts, and renamed it “The Blue Room”. The play consists of 10 scenes (as in the original) and each scene is a sexual encounter. “The Blue Room” opened in London England at the Donmar Warehouse theatre in 1998 to critical acclaim, with Nicole Kidman and Iain Glen; and was directed by Sam Mendes. Later, that same year, the production was moved to New York and was presented on Broadway at the Cort Theatre, with the same cast. In New York, the sexuality and nudity stirred up a great deal of controversy. It also sold a lot of tickets. The play was most recently performed in 2002 in Melbourne and later in Sidney, Australia at the Theatre Royal.
This is a very daring project for a small theatre company such as Gadfly Productions to produce; and I really appreciate the fact that this company is taking on such a risk. Furthermore, with this project “Gadfly” is living up to the definition of it’s name (found on its’ website) “Gadfly – to stimulate persistent criticism”.
I believe that it is really important that Vancouver audiences be exposed to works that are rarely produced and I like the fact that we are getting the opportunity, more and more these days, to see work that has been written and performed in Europe, not only in the United States and Canada.
I also believe that the Vancouver theatre audience is sophisticated enough to not just view this as a piece of voyeuristic theatre– but will be able to decipher the social implications of the play.
Another exciting aspect of the play is the original music that is written by local singer/songwriter, Sarah Noni. Music has always been a part of all the productions and this will further help to heighten the experience. I am really looking forward to hearing her compositions.
I spoke to Joe Savu, the producer and director, about the play and he emphasized that he is very happy that young and talented actors in this production Elizabeth Kirkland and Jordan Schartner are able to tackle such a demanding play and gain more exposure in this city. He said that it is always a pleasure and very important to give new actors, who have not been seen very often (if at all) on our main stages a chance to tackle daring work and finally be seen by other artistic directors, who may not have considered them for their main stage productions.
Gadfly Productions is a very interesting company which produces not only theatre, but film works; and in addition to producing “The Blue Room”, the company is currently working on a film entitled “The Visitor”. I will be posting the interview with Joe Savu, on my blog,
www.blazingstarchronicles.com , this weekend for readers to view. This will be an opportunity for readers to find out more about the work the company is doing and why the director chose to do “The Blue Room”. In the meantime, I urge you to go out and see this daring and rarely performed play by David Hare. It promises to be a real theatre highlight. Be adventurous and make your way down to the Havana Theatre this weekend. Tickets are reasonably priced ($20 to $25) and there are just a few performances left before it closes on Sunday evening!
You can find out more information regarding performance times (evening/matinees) and ticket prices by going to the Havana theatre website
www.havanarestaurant.ca/theatre
and visiting the Gadfly Productions website at
www.gadflyproductions.org .
Posted in
Uncategorized
|
No Comments »
Choices
Friday, February 17th, 2012
~ Frances Kitson
Acting, as you may already be aware, is not exactly a steady or predictable field of employment. It’s a series of projects, some of which – hopefully, most of which – pay you, some of which don’t. Sometimes you have things lined up for the next twelve months, sometimes you can only see two months ahead. Sometimes you’re working a day job, not sure of when the next opportunity will come.
As an emerging actress, there hasn’t been a lot lined up so far, and I have kept finding myself in the position of not knowing exactly what I’ll be doing six months from now. Even when opportunities came up, I wasn’t sure whether or not to take them, because I didn’t know what else might come up as well.
And then I figured out that my thinking was all wrong.
What I was unconsciously doing, really, was waiting for my Big Break – you know, the one that would launch my career and guarantee a lifetime of consecutive acting projects. I just had to hold out till then and be perpetually available – and take some lousily paid, uninteresting, and easily quittable day job in the meantime – so that I would be ready when the Big Break came.
Right.
(It sounds vaguely apocalyptic, actually, when I put it like that.)
What that has actually done is keep me in a holding pattern; the Waiting Place of Dr. Seuss’s
Oh, the Places You’ll Go!
It has been a place of limbo, of staying constantly on alert instead of relaxing and getting into something. It has been a place of “What if?” instead of “Let’s go!”
Here’s what finally changed my thinking: back in December, I was asked to take part in a project that would be happening in April. My first thought was, “Well, gee, I don’t know if I can, because I don’t know what I’m doing in April.” Really, Frances? Do you have any plans to make anything happen in April? Do you have any other offers on the table? Are there any competing possibilities for your time in April right now? No? Then the problem would be…?
You see, what I really meant was, “I don’t know if I can, because I don’t know
if something else will come along
for me to do in April.” And by something else, I really meant something perfect – the mythical Big Break that would cast me alongside local heavyweights and guarantee forty-odd years of Equity contracts; the Big Break that I couldn’t miss out on, the Big Break for which I had to be available at all cost, the Big Break for which to be unavailable would spell career suicide, the Big Break with which this project might possibly interfere.
But how, exactly, was this Big Break going to come to pass?
Don’t ask difficult questions!
The answer, of course, is that it wasn’t, because I wasn’t doing anything to make it happen. It was going to suddenly drop in my lap, whether through an audition, word of mouth, or, or… or I don’t know how. So I said to myself: “Self,” said I, “what if you
do
know what you’re doing in April? What if you choose to know what you’re doing in April? What if you choose to do this project in April?” And lo and behold, I now know exactly what I’m doing in April.
Just because there isn’t a corporate ladder for an acting career doesn’t mean, as I unconsciously believed, that you cannot plan or take action to move your career forward. You are not a hapless victim of circumstance. It actually is possible to take your career into your own hands. It actually is possible to plan. You can make choices!
When you have a plan, you’re proactive. You aren’t waiting for anyone else to cast you in the role you really want (Juliet, in my case, and Mary in
Mary’s Wedding ); you’re taking your career into your own hands and fulfilling your own dreams yourself. Plus you’ve got more to put on your resume, which means you’ve got a better chance of being seen in auditions; you’ve got shows to which you can invite potential collaborators so that they can see you in action; and, vitally, you are keeping yourself in a positive frame of mind. There’s no time for recreational worrying about whether or not your career is moving forward.
So here’s my challenge to myself: I’m going to create a plan for myself for the next twelve months. That’s right – I’m going to plan out the next year as if no one was going to cast me in anything and I had to build all acting opportunities for myself. What do I want to do? What’s possible? Anything goes!
There’s a Christian saying: “Work as if everything depends on you; pray as if everything depends on God.” For acting purposes, I would amend that to: “Work as if everything depends on you; audition as if everything depends on the director.” I went for coffee with Scott Bellis, and he told me that an acting teacher of his told him that an actor’s job is not to act in productions; an actor’s job is to go to auditions. Makes sense. Chances are better that you won’t get the part than that you will. So get out there! Increase the odds! (Wait – does that make mathematical sense? I think someone should come up with an algorithm to demonstrate this.)
And with any luck, my grand twelve-month plan will end up getting side-tracked by the arrival of, if not a Big, then at least Medium-Sized Break. Control freak though I am, I think I might be able to live with that.
Posted in
Uncategorized
|
No Comments »
The EveryDay as Drama: “El Pasado Es Un Animal Grotesco”
Friday, February 10th, 2012
~Trilby Jeeves
This January has been unusually busy. Therefore, I didn’t get to see as many shows during the PuSH Festival as I had dreamed of doing, but I was fortunate to witness “El Pasado..” by Mariano Pensotti. Ironically, unbeknownst to me, the only show I saw last year at the PuSH was by the same author, “La Marea” on the street in Gastown. In hindsight, I can certainly see a similar energy, style and observation of everyday life.
Everyday life – something we don’t necessarily see as dramatic, theatrical fodder to present. In the filmmaking world, Alfred Hitchcock quoted: “Drama is life with the dull bits cut out”. When I hear that, I suspect the “dull bits” are what occurs in the everyday, the quotidian, that aren’t featured in dramatic story telling. How many scenes do you see people scratching off their to-do list, changing the toilet paper, clearing the fog off the mirror after a shower, washing their coffee pot, ironing, writing a note, humping a pillow…..
Well, the last three actions showed up in “El Pasado” during the performance marathon of many characters, time-lines, scenes, narrative pieces, and all on a constant moving set akin to a merry go round. Hmmm… The Merry Go Round of life, perhaps?
AND, it wasn’t dull.
Many everyday moments were experienced as each character went through a 10 year span, revealing to us the twists and turns that can occur because of all the varied decisions we make. I sat there in the dark being reminded of all my decisions that had eventually brought me to the seat I was sitting in, that night. I felt a mix of melancholy and relief. Melancholy because I wished some of my decisions had been different, and if they had have been, how would my life be now? And, relief, because I wasn’t alone in the strange journey we are all on called life.
Isn’t that the job of theatre, or any story telling? To catch you, hook you, make you think, ponder, re-evaluate and/or even instigate a change in your path? Or, simply to be entertained? For me, I appreciate pieces that make me look inside.
This production did that for me. And, it excited me because of the tension created by a perpetual moving set. Not exactly a relaxing time, but certainly one that kept you on your toes. “What is going to happen next?”
At the post show talk back moderated by Kenji Maeda, several audience members got to learn some “behind the scenes” details. “How do you remember so many lines?!” was the first question posed. The cast laughed and said that was the least of their worries. More challenging was remembering the order of all the scenes, and keeping on top of the timing, especially with the screened subtext on either side of the stage. As an actor, I can imagine it would be devastating if you faltered on the scene order as the moving stage didn’t seem to have any room for error.
Other interesting bits from the talk back included finding out that Argentina has a strong experimental theatre community, which meant that as performers they were used to taking on new ideas and risks.
The show based on all the writer’s narrations was created over a period of about 9 months. (Hmm… kind of makes sense, doesn’t it?)
As always, after a live performance, I carry away a bucket of inspiration. I get inspired by the tenacity of performance artists and writers to explore, and eventually put forth a play that digs into our modern life. My friends who had never been to a PuSH Festival play were extremely excited and our conversation over our post show drinks was more than stimulating.
We look forward to next year’s PuSH. Keep PuSHing, please!
El Pasado information:
Author: Mariano Pensotti www.Marionpensotti.com
Cast: Pilar Gamboa, Javier Lorenzo, Santiago Gobernori, Maria Ines Sancerni
Posted in
Uncategorized
|
No Comments »
« Older Entries
Recent Posts
Mixed Media Productions and Staircase Theatre Voiceover Workshops
Arts Club Theatre Company’s ReACT: New Plays In Progress
PuSh International Performing Arts Festival Launch Party to Announce 2016 Programming
Producing Partner – Jessie Richardson Theatre Awards Show 2016
An Arts Club Theatre Company production: A Christmas Story, The Musical
Election 2015: Where We Stand With a Liberal Majority
News Archives
Select Month
October 2015
September 2015
August 2015
July 2015
June 2015
May 2015
April 2015
March 2015
February 2015
January 2015
December 2014
November 2014
October 2014
September 2014
August 2014
July 2014
June 2014
May 2014
April 2014
March 2014
February 2014
January 2014
December 2013
November 2013
October 2013
September 2013
August 2013
July 2013
June 2013
May 2013
April 2013
March 2013
February 2013
January 2013
December 2012
November 2012
October 2012
September 2012
August 2012
July 2012
June 2012
May 2012
April 2012
March 2012
February 2012
January 2012
December 2011
October 2011
September 2011
August 2011
July 2011
March 2011
February 2011
December 2010
November 2010
October 2010
September 2010
July 2010
May 2010
April 2010
March 2010
January 2010
December 2009
November 2009
October 2009
Who We Are
Mandate
History
Staff & Board
Member Companies
Contact
Get Involved
Membership
Company
Individual
Friends of the GVPTA
Frequent Buyer Card
Stay Informed
Support Us
Individual Donations
Sponsorship
Home
What We Do
Vancouver Theatre Guide
Blog
Making a Scene
Casting the Net
World Theatre Day
Resources
Advocacy
Links
Workshops
Websites for artists: Adjo