General
Home Technology Entertainment Lifestyle Culture & Science World & Business
Movies Sports General Motorsport Music Gossip Television Tourism and Travel
Latest in the Section
Like Father, Like Son: find a stranger in the family privacy
Denmark wins Eurovision 2013 and Spain is penultimate
Denmark is proclaimed winner of Eurovision 2013
Oil companies earn 31% for each liter of fuel, is it fair?
Mitsubishi MiEV Evolution II, electrificando otra vez Pikes Peak
Nissan JukeRide, will you participate in the development of a car?
Mercedes S-Class History, over 100 years of luxury on wheels
TRD blank spot puts a 2014 Lexus IS
Hyundai wants to fill an empty hole in their range with a compact SUV
Motorfull Green: Porsche 918 Spyder, five driving modes for all gobernarlos
Popular in the Section
Taylor Swift en top-less
Pictures of Miranda Kerr en la revista Ocean Drive
Joe Jonas and Demi Lovato strolling hand in hand and
Adam Sandler becomes a priest for the second time
Betting Forum
Nereida Gallardo topless in Sardinia
The famous and the mystery of the tattoos of stars
Ricky Martin came out with Valerio Pino
Justin Bieber Biografía
Miley Cyrus, en bikini en la playa
General
Icon Trip to the Moon in LEGO
Entertainment											 -
General
Thursday, 11 February 2010 17:05
Trip to the Moon
(1902) is a film from France (Le Voyage dans la Lune) which has become an icon of world cinema and an important part of visual imagination of mankind, thanks to
a single image.
So when I found the famous frame could be done in LEGO, do not hesitate for a second coming to share with you all.
The creator is
Guy Himber
and his set on Flickr on
Steampunk Lego
is something everybody should see.
Via:
Make Magazine
Share!
Font
Bad apple
Entertainment											 -
General
Tuesday, 09 February 2010 16:28
Bad Apple!
Is 101% pure creativity. A
stop-motion
animation created from photographic prints of 6566 bitmaps. What's impressive is that there is no editing in Photoshop or other editor. The images were captured with a webcam, and the effects are achieved by changing the camera position and adjusting the focus, brightness, zoom and exposure.
Via:
Pink Tentacle
Share!
Font
[HowTo] How to learn to prepare drinks and cocktails with the help of Internet
Entertainment											 -
General
Tuesday, 09 February 2010 01:09
One of the things I want to do this year 2010 is
to become an expert preparing a drink or two.
It's not a fan of get drunk at bars or parties, I rather take a little and usually with good friends talking about how to fix the world.
It seems to me an excellent opportunity to enjoy a pleasant time with people who want the power to prepare a draft of a form so good that your friends leave the house saying that this drink that I cook amazing Inti: D. But the present state of things is almost pathetic, do not prepare well beyond any of eternal rum and Coke.
One of the shots I want to learn how to prepare the
Manhattan
I've always liked it. Well, I started some research on Internet sites to find recipes for drinks and cocktails and found some I wanted to share with you.
Extra Tatsy
Liqurious
TuTrago.com
Cocktail Recipes at About.com
Drinks Mixer
Brewery Lodge
If you know anyone would be great if you can place it in the comments. So we are expanding the list.
Share!
Font
Mini guide for newcomers to Venezuelans Twitter
Entertainment											 -
General
Wednesday, 03 February 2010 23:53
In recent weeks, the social network Twitter has been the talk of many Venezuelans who have a lot of figuration in the traditional media of our country, mostly politicians, TV-related people and journalists. Each, from his own conception of the world, has completely different ideas about
what is Twitter, how it is used and what their purposes.
This is very confusing for those who arrive first to the network of bird. In general the different views we have of Twitter is because each person on Twitter weapon he wants, which ultimately results in a tool highly adaptable to your needs, lifestyle, hobbies, paranoia and feelings. Of course I also have said some crazy things so they can not stand the slightest discussion of argument, it's like when you defend your ideas cursing and shouting, are simply thrown to the wind noise orcs.
So the first thing you do when you register at Twitter just is forget what you heard on television. With Twitter you will not save the world, to perpetuate or end a revolution, win or lose virtual wars.
With Twitter you'll be able to communicate efficiently
(if you wish), increasing the number of people we can get your message if and only if you have something interesting to say and want to say.
At the same time on Twitter you'll be able to follow the ideas, thoughts, messages and news that others share in the social network. You decide who can one do it for you. If you follow pure lovers of the South Pacific whales, probably you're a whale. If you follow pure obsessed nerds who spend their whole day talking about Apple, Google and the Kindle, probably will be a nerdcista. If you follow writers probably teenage vampire books're a twilightcista. But as human beings are people with many diverse interests, is likely to follow many different users that Twitter and finish assembling your case, where only read what you read,
you are the tailor of your Twitter.
And therein lies the power of the tool and its freedom. While some ghosts fighting wars,
you build your own social network and communication.
No one can invade your timeline (received messages) unless you let him.
In short,
with Twitter you follow others and others will follow you.
You can only write and read messages in
140 characters
or less. You decide what to read, who read, who to meet, what caused the fight (if one is available) and write. You're in control. So you can build a solid or a weak Stonehenge paper boat that will make water everywhere. Nobody can do for you. In the process learn many things safe, fun and you better understand the world and ideas of those around you. That's cool Twitter, you're the architect.
--
My Twitter is
@ inti
and the blog is
@ Esquizopedia,
if we want to pursue.
Share!
Font
More Articles...
A glass with a very particular design
Scientists and mathematicians printed on legal tender notes
Architecture as art
The new LEGO figurines collectibles
<<
Start
<
Prev
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
Next
>
End
>>
Page 20 of 54
Wikinoticia.com