Collection: The Chrysler Building
Archive
Movie
Live Music Show
Documentaries
Collections
The Films Of...
Art
All Shows
Magazine
About
Collection: The Chrysler Building
Short videos and a documentary about the Chrysler Building's history and media legacy (note: includes Godzilla)
Curated by
Jason Forrest
Total Runtime: 0:09:51
Collection art deco chrysler building cremaster nyc
The
Chrysler Building
is an
Art Deco
skyscraper in New York City, located on the east side of
Manhattan
in the
Turtle Bay
area at the intersection of
42nd Street
and
Lexington Avenue . Standing at 319 meters (1,047 ft), [ 5 ] [ 6 ]
it was the world's tallest building for 11 months before it was surpassed by the
Empire State Building
in 1931. After the
destruction
of the
World Trade Center , it was again the second-tallest building in New York City until December 2007, when the
spire
was raised on the 365.8-meter (1,200 ft)
Bank of America Tower , pushing the Chrysler Building into third position. In addition,
The New York Times Building , which opened in 2007, is exactly level with the Chrysler Building in height. [ 7 ]
The Chrysler Building is a classic example of Art Deco architecture and considered by many contemporary architects to be
one of the finest buildings in New York City . In 2007, it was ranked ninth on the
List of America's Favorite Architecture
by the
American Institute of Architects . [ 8 ]
It was the headquarters of the
Chrysler Corporation
from 1930 until the mid-1950s, but, although the building was built and
designed specifically for the car manufacturer, the corporation did not
pay for the construction of it and never owned it, as
Walter P. Chrysler
decided to pay for it himself, so that his children could inherit it. [ 9 ]
Collection: The Chrysler Building
◀
PREV NEXT
▶
THIS VIDEO:
MORE INFO ABOUT THIS SHOW »
Our Curators Recommend:
Collection: Nervous Gender One of the innovators of what is today called "Synthpunk". The group was confrontational and experimental.
Doc - Cannibal Ox & Def Jux Dutch Documentary about the Def Jux record label and their biggest artists Cannibal Ox.
Collection - Public Access TV Prank Calls There's just something about Public Access TV Hosts that makes people want to mess with them
Collection: The International Isle of Man Tourist Trophy Race motorcycle racing event held on the Isle of Man and was for many years the most prestigious motor-cycle race in the world.
Network Awesome Originals:
Heavy Metal Week Nothing but the best of the best documentaries, live music shows, films, and video collections exploring the themes of the loudest musical genre
Horror-Punk Weekend A spooky and chilling collection of the best and bloodiest punk and splatter! Wear a raincoat!
Women Of Punk Exploring the role women have played in Punk music from the 70's to today
The Films Of Jean-Luc Godard Jean-Luc Godard films and related video
Previously This Week:
Tue, Oct 27
Behind the scenes of the Evil Dead movies
Talk Show - Sam Raimi
Within the Woods by Sam Raimi (1978)
Talk Show - Bruce Campbell Lecture
Bollywood Evil Dead (2008)
Movie - The Evil Dead (Sam Raimi, 1981)
Mon, Oct 26
Live Music Show - Mac DeMarco @ La Route du Rock 2014
Collection - Mariah Carey
Doc - Eric Rohmer: Cinema de Notre Temps
Collection - Deadheads
Talk Show - William S. Burroughs and Kathy Acker
Movie - Multiple Maniacs (John Waters, 1970)
Sun, Oct 25
Live Music Show - Music for 18 Musicians live in Japan (2008)
Art - Suur Toll
Doc - G.I.S.M. Subj and Egos, Chopped
Doc - White Angel, Black Angel (1969)
Short - Elefante (Spain)
Movie - Theodore Rex (1995)
Sat, Oct 24
Art - Malice in Wonderland (Vince Collins)
Collection: Alice in Wonderland
Talk Show - Alice Cooper (1973)
Art - Curious Alice (1971)
Art - Manga Sekai Mukashi Banashi: Alice in Wonderland (1981)
Movie - Alice (Svankmajer, 1988)
Fri, Oct 23
Collection - Dimanche Mon Amour Goes to Brasil
The Captive by René Laloux (1988)
Collection - Etienne Daho
Doc - Michel Foucault: Beyond Good and Evil (1993)
Collection - Dalida
Movie - The Stranger (Orson Welles, 1946)
Thu, Oct 22
Live Music Show - Blondie Live @ Beat Club, 1978
Talk Show - Debbie Harry and H.R Giger 1981
Doc - CBGB's the roots of punk
TV CBGB (1981)
Collection - New York in the 80s
Movie - Kids (1995)
Our video curators filter videos into feature-length shows.
Each day we broadcast 6 new shows curated by theme.
All shows are in the archive. Watch ‘em any time.
Network Awesome is a new kind of online TV experience. We mine YouTube to present the best videos that are
interesting, over-looked or just plain cool.
FOLLOW US ON FACEBOOK
Like a TV guide you actually like!
FOLLOW US ON TUMBLR
Tons of .gifs and new ones every day.
FOLLOW US ON TWITTER
Share your favorite shows with the world!
Magazine
About
Advertise
Contact
Design: Matt Gentile, Martin Müller, and Jason Forrest
Code: Greg Sadetsky, Crucial Felix, Mike Dillion, Dan Levine, and
Benjamin Gleitzman
Illustration:
James Clapham