Yahoo! Groups
Loading ...
Sorry, an error occurred while loading the content.
Sign In
More From Yahoo
Yahoo
Mail
News
Sports
Finance
Weather
Games
Groups
Answers
Screen
Food
Tech
Flickr
Tools
Help
View Desktop Version
Careers
About
My Saves
Settings
Sign Out
Terms
Privacy
Sign Out
Terms and Privacy
Toggle the menu
Yahoo Groups
Search
Mail
Welcome to Yahoo Groups.
An extension to your real life group of friends, interests and communities.
What's new :
see video
Sign In
You must be a registered Yahoo user to start a group.   Sign Up
Hawks CAFE is a Public Group with 1451 members.
Hawks CAFE
Public Group,
1451 members
Primary Navigation
Conversations
Photos
Files
Attachments
Events
Polls
Links
Database
About
More
Back
View
Next Previous
Expand Messages
Fixed Width Font
Sort by:
Date
Crown Astors' Pedophile Scriveners and D2 Banking contract hits
Expand Messages
hawkscafeowner Asks UKIP to investigate Crown Agents Sisters, Astor Family and pedophile Livery Companies including Scriveners in apparent use of D2 Banking to fund contract
Message 1 of 1
,
Nov 13, 2010
View Source
0 Attachment Asks UKIP to investigate Crown Agents'
Sisters , Astor Family and pedophile Livery Companies including
Scriveners
in apparent use of D2 Banking to fund contract hits To:   Lord Pearson of Rannoch, Leader of the U.K. Independence Party,
mail@...   From: Field McConnell and David Hawkins,
Forensic Economics, Cybersecurity and Counterintelligence at Hawks' CAFE
www.CaptainSherlock.com
http://groups.yahoo.com/group/hawkscafe/   Copies: Nigel Farage, Commentator with Bruges Group and former leader of the U.K. Independence Party
info@... D K Matai, Principal, The Asymmetric Threats Contingency Alliance [allegedly launched for 9/11] and mi2G D2 Banking service
intelligence.unit@... The Clerk's office is situated on board HQS Wellington, which is moored on the River Thames adjacent to Temple underground station.   The Clerk Worshipful Company of Scriveners HQS Wellington Temple Stairs Victoria Embankment London
WC2R 2PN clerk@... Barbara Hollinsgworth, Local Opinion Editor
bhollingsworth@... Robert Hutton 'Cameron raids dormant UK accounts'
rhutton1@... Clive Haslock, The Worshipful Company of Insurers
haslockcg@... Canadian Prime Minister, The Right Honourable Stephen Harper
pm@... Glenn Beck Show
me@...
Agents: CO2e, Weather Underground FC-KU Crime Scene cfontaine@... Michael Cassidy Court of Common Council
michael.cassidy@...
keith.white@...
iain.morrison@...
michael.naameh@...
mike.symes@...
stephen.hollingdale@...
stuart.ponder@...
simon.price@...
r obin.woodall@...
chris.forage@...
slawomir.soroczynski@...
alina.lowe@...
james.ilori@...
charlie.nash@... Sarah Jones BBC Legal Adviser T: 020 8008 1941
sarah.jones@... Sir Nigel Knowles DLA Piper Partner
nigel.knowles@...
femme.comp@...   htrienens@...
kellogg-alumni@...
Jasper.Lanek@...
jill.knesek@...
gary.clough@...   bcc: 2500+    Sent November 13, 2010   Dear Lord Pearson:   Crown Astors' Pedophile Scriveners and D2 Banking contract hits   Abel Danger is asking UKIP to investigate Crown Agents'
Sisters , insiders of the Astor Family and pedophile associates of various City Livery Companies, including
Scriveners
and
Information Technologists , in re their apparent use of D2 Banking at Canary Wharf to finance the contract killings of
JonBenét
Ramsay, Gareth Williams and Nicolo Rizutto. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/JonBen%C3%A9t_Ramsey http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Death_of_Gareth_Williams http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nicolo_Rizzuto
http://www.crownagents.com/Images/CrownAgents/175years/175logo.gif http://img.dailymail.co.uk/i/pix/2007/06_01/familytiesMOS0306_468x448.jpg http://www.audioeditions.com/audio-book-images/l/Bartleby-the-Scrivener-and-Other-Stories-283441.jpg
http://www.jameson245.com/faceright.jpg http://www.mi2g.com/images/headings/hdr_d2b.gif http://81.130.213.163:8002/cgi-bin/lcl.exe?a=i&k=FKTDSMFZN&c=CompanyArms_img   Our KSM agents have evidence that Crown Agents
Sisters
led by
Dame Stephanie "Steve" Shirley
(see notes), developed D2 Banking for an online
Astor Family Office
where
Scriveners
use pedophile snuff-film images to extort insiders such as Viscountess Astor and David and Samantha Cameron, in order to maintain Livery Company or dynastic control over the global triangular trade in opium, guns and child pornography.
http://www.greatstbarts.com/Media/Images/Livery/infotech.jpg
http://www.fcet.staffs.ac.uk/jdw1/sucfm/19339999shirleysteve.jpg http://www.crowdstorm.co.uk/upload/images/product/874/PID88745196BT9bTJL.jpg
http://nndb.com/people/090/000051934/jja-crop.jpg http://4.bp.blogspot.com/_NE-72ZXux-g/SeGGYo2CMqI/AAAAAAAAI1g/8YnvZFHe0wM/s400/kid.BMP http://www.canada.com/news/Person/Nicolo+Rizzuto/topic.html http://www.globalnews.ca/world/2397694.bin?size=sw620nws KSM also has evidence that the
Worshipful Company of  Scriveners
grew its pedophile family office from an 18 th
century trust set up for John Jacob Astor through an 1833 joint venture set up for Crown Agents'
Sisters
and
William Backhouse Astor, Sr.,   to a 1995 digital-data network set up for D2 Banking's Mafia clients, including Krayleigh and Rizutto insiders, Stephanie "Steve" Shirley, the first Master of the
Worshipful Company of Information Technologists,
and David Cameron, the Old Etonian son-in-law of Viscountess Astor.   "[Evidence Crown Agents used an 18 th
Century model developed by the Scriveners and its fellow City Livery Companies   to control intergenerational transfer of the Astor Family wealth and the 19 th
century opium trade] John Jacob Astor of New York City joins the opium smuggling trade. His American Fur Company purchases ten tons of Turkish opium then ships the contraband item to
Canton
on the Macedonian. Astor would later leave the
China
opium trade and sell solely to
England " ... "John Jacob Astor's ancestors were
Waldensian
refugees from
Savoy . He was born in
Walldorf , near
Heidelberg
in the old
Palatinate
which became part of
Baden
in 1803, Germany (currently in the
Rhein-Neckar county ). His father Johann Jacob Astor (July 7, 1724-April 18, 1816) was a butcher. The son John Jacob Astor learned English in
London
while working for his brother, George Astor,
manufacturing
musical instruments . Astor arrived in the
United States
in March 1784, just after the end of the
Revolutionary War . He traded furs with Indians and then he started a fur goods shop in
New York City
in the late 1780s. He also became the
New York
agent of his brother's musical instrument business. He married Sarah Todd on September 19, 1785.
She brought him a
dowry
of only $300, but she possessed a frugal mind and a business judgment that he declared to be better than that of most merchants, and she assisted him in the practical details of his business.
After retiring from his business, Astor spent the rest of his life as a patron of
culture . He supported the
ornithologist
John James Audubon , the poet/writer
Edgar Allan Poe , and the
presidential campaign
of
Henry Clay . At the time of his death in 1848, Astor was the wealthiest person in the
United States , leaving an estate estimated to be worth at least $20 million (Estimated $110.1 Billion in 2006 Dollars); he has been estimated to be the fourth richest American of all time, based on the ratio of his fortune to contemporary
GDP . In his will, he left $400,000 to build the
Astor Library
for the
New York
public (later consolidated with other libraries to form
New York Public Library ), as well as $50,000 for a poorhouse in his German hometown, Walldorf. Astor left the bulk of his fortune to his second son,
William Backhouse Astor, Sr.
His eldest son, John Jacob II, had a mental disability and Astor left enough money to care for him for the rest of his life. John Jacob Astor is buried in the
Trinity Churchyard Cemetery
in the
New York City
borough
of
Manhattan .
Herman Melville
used Astor as a symbol of the earliest fortunes in New York in his novella
Bartleby, the Scrivener . The pair of marble lions that sit by the entrance of the
New York Public Library
at
Fifth Avenue
and
42nd Street
were originally named Leo Astor and Leo Lenox, after Astor and
James Lenox , who founded the library. Then they were called Lord Astor and Lady Lenox (both lions are males). Mayor
Fiorello LaGuardia
renamed them "Patience" and "Fortitude" during the
Great Depression ."   "[Evidence Crown Agents Sisters used Astor Family trust developed by the Scriveners and fellow City Livery Companies to propagate crime scene fiction and conceal crime scene fact] Edgar Allan Poe (January 19, 1809 – October 7, 1849) was an American writer, poet, editor and literary critic, considered part of the American
Romantic Movement . Best known for his tales of
mystery
and the
macabre , Poe was one of the earliest American practitioners of the short story and is considered the inventor of the
detective-fiction
genre. He is further credited with contributing to the emerging genre of science fiction. He was the first well-known American writer to try to earn a living through writing alone, resulting in a financially difficult life and career. He was born as Edgar Poe in
Boston ,
Massachusetts ; he was orphaned young when his mother died shortly after his father abandoned the family. Poe was taken in by John and Frances Allan, of
Richmond ,
Virginia , but they never formally adopted him [but did they abuse him?] .. Poe switched his focus to prose and spent the next several years working for literary journals and periodicals, becoming known for his own style of literary criticism. His work forced him to move between several cities, including
Baltimore ,
Philadelphia , and
New York City . In
Baltimore
in 1835,
he married
Virginia Clemm , his 13-year-old cousin.
In January 1845 Poe published his poem " The Raven " to instant success. His wife died of
tuberculosis
two years after its publication. He began planning to produce his own journal, The Penn (later renamed
The Stylus ), though he died before it could be produced. On October 7, 1849, at age 40, Poe died in Baltimore; the cause of his death is unknown and has been variously attributed to alcohol, brain congestion,
cholera , drugs, heart disease,
rabies , suicide, tuberculosis, and other agents [contract hit to protect Scriveners pedophile ring in the Astor Family trust?].
Poe and his works influenced literature in the United States and around the world, as well as in specialized fields, such as
cosmology
and
cryptography . Poe and his work appear throughout popular culture in literature, music, films, and television [D2 Banking registers digital data copyright for Worshipful Company of Scriveners and Stationers]"   "[Evidence Crown Agents used Astor Family trust developed by the Scriveners and fellow City Livery Companies to propagate crime scene fiction and conceal crime scene fact – we at Abel Danger
take the phrase `I would prefer not to' in the novella `Bartleby, the Scrivener' to be a typical response of a terrified
child victim given the choice of a
reward or a beating by a pedophile] Bartleby, the Scrivener: A Story of Wall Street is a
novella
by the American novelist
Herman Melville
(1819–1891). It first appeared anonymously in two parts in the November and December 1853 editions of
Putnam's Magazine , and was reprinted with minor textual alterations in his
The Piazza Tales
in 1856. ... The narrator, an elderly
Manhattan
lawyer with a very comfortable business helping wealthy men deal with mortgages, deeds, and bonds, relates the story of the strangest man he has ever known. At the start of the story, the narrator already employs two
scriveners , nicknamed Nippers and
Turkey , to copy legal documents by hand. Nippers (the younger of the two) suffers from chronic indigestion, and Turkey is an alcoholic, but the office survives because in the mornings Turkey is sober and Nippers is irritable, while in the afternoons Nippers has calmed down and Turkey is drunk. Ginger Nut, the office boy, gets his name from the little cakes he brings the two scriveners. An increase in business leads the narrator to advertise for a third scrivener, and he hires the forlorn-looking Bartleby in hopes that his calmness will soothe the temperaments of Nippers and
Turkey . At first, Bartleby appears to be a boon to the practice, as he produces a large volume of high-quality work. One day, though, when asked by the narrator to help proofread a copied document, Bartleby answers with what soon becomes his stock response: "I would prefer not to." To the dismay of the narrator and to the irritation of the other employees, Bartleby performs fewer and fewer tasks around the office. The narrator makes several attempts to reason with him and to learn something about him, but Bartleby offers nothing but his signature "I would prefer not to." One weekend the narrator stops by the office unexpectedly and discovers that Bartleby has started living there. The loneliness of Bartleby's life impresses him: at night and on Sundays,
Wall Street
is as desolate as a ghost town, and the window in Bartleby's corner allows him no view except that of a blank wall three feet away. The narrator's feelings for Bartleby alternate between pity and revulsion."   "[Evidence Crown Agents used Astor Family trust developed by the Scriveners and fellow City Livery Companies to copyright and
propagate crime scene fiction while concealing
crime scene fact – technically spoliation of evidence] We learn in the first paragraphs of "Bartleby the Scrivener" that the characters we are dealing with are a lawyer and his law clerks.  We also learn that the narrator is not a courtroom-style lawyer, but a business lawyer that deals with "rich men's bonds".  Think about the socio-economic array of—or gap between—characters in "Bartleby the Scrivener" and decide what sort of commentary Melville might be making about class distinctions and system of government in this time period in the United States.  Note that "Bartleby the Scrivener" is written in the very middle of the 19th century during industrialization and capitalist business practices.  The narrator even mentions John Jacob Astor, a historical figure who is famous for having amassed a private fortune.  Examine businessmen like Astor and the relationship the narrator has had with him.  This story intimates a dichotomy between the people who profit off of such business, and those more in the working class like
Bartleby ,
Turkey , and Nippers, and the long arduous work they are subjected-to should be brought out as they are essentially human copy machines.  Thus, a theme emerges about alienation of workers under such social conditions and dehumanizing consequences."   "[Evidence Crown Agents used Astor Family trust developed by the Scriveners and fellow City Livery Companies to control intergenerational transfer of Astor Family wealth whether a beneficiary's death is caused by human error or a contract hit] She was born as Madeleine Talmage Force on June 19, 1893 in
Brooklyn ,
New York
to William Hurlbut Force and Katherine Arvilla Talmage (1863-?). She had a sister,
Katherine Emmons Force . She first met
John Jacob Astor IV , the richest man in the
United States , in
Bar Harbor, Maine
the August after finishing Miss Spencer school. On
September 9, 1911
the eighteen-year-old Madeleine married the forty-seven year old John Jacob Astor in
Newport , the
Astor family 's
Rhode Island
home [29 years difference in age]. Aboard the Titanic Madeleine boarded the Titanic as a first class passenger on
Cherbourg ,
France
with her husband John Jacob Astor, her husband's valet Victor Robbins, her maid Rosalie Bidois and her nurse Caroline Endres. They also took John Jacob Astor's
Airedale , Kitty and occupied one of the parlor suites. On the night of
April 14, 1912
Colonel Astor reported to Madeleine that the ship hit an
iceberg . He reassured her that the damage did not appear serious so she got dressed in a silk white dress with silk ruffles and a fur and silk shawl put on a ruby and emerald necklace followed by a diamond necklace and a pearl necklace with pearl earrings put on a diamond watch and 4 pearl bracelets with her wedding ring engagement ring and a few other rings and grabbed a silk purse and stuffed it with 200 dollars and a few jewels and then they took off. While they were waiting on the boat deck Mrs. Astor lent Leah Aks, a third class passenger, her shawl to keep her son, Filly, warm. At one point the Astors retired to the gymnasium and sat on the mechanical horses. They wore their lifebelts. Colonel Astor had found another and cut the lining with a pen knife to show Madeleine what it was made of. Later Madeleine, her maid and her nurse were being placed in
lifeboat 4
when Madeleine realized she wasn't going to leave her husband so Mr. Astor asked if he may accompany her; he was denied so she was placed in the boat without her husband. John Jacob Astor and his valet perished on the sinking. John Jacob Astor's body was recovered on April 22. Madeleine and the other survivors were rescued by the
RMS Carpathia
and afterwards Madeleine did not talk about the disaster except to mention her last memory of the sinking was seeing John Jacob Astor's pet
Airedale , Kitty, pacing on the
deck . Madeleine was only 19 years of age, and had been married to Astor for only seven months. Later life Madeleine gave birth to
John Jacob Astor VI , named after his father, on
August 14, 1912
exactly four months after she had become a widow. His half-brother,
Vincent Astor , long maintained that his younger sibling was not a biological Astor. According to John Jacob Astor's
will , Madeleine would have received income from a $5,000,000
trust fund
as long as she did not remarry."   "[Evidence Crown Agents Sisters use trusts developed by the Scriveners et al. to optimize Astor Family wealth by sponsoring married men proven susceptible to pedophile entrapment and extortion, into man-in-the-middle leadership positions] Annabel Lucy Veronica Astor, Viscountess Astor (born 1948) is an
English
businesswoman who is the CEO of OKA Direct, a home furnishings design company. Prior to joining
OKA
Direct, she was the owner and designer of the Annabel Jones jewellery business in
London . Her daughter
Samantha
is married to British Prime Minister and Conservative Party leader
David Cameron . She was born Annabel Lucy Veronica Jones, the daughter of
Timothy Angus Jones
and his wife Patricia David "Pandora" Clifford. Her mother was married secondly in 1961 to
Michael Astor , based in
London . Her paternal grandparents were Sir Roderick Jones, the Chairman of
Reuters , and the novelist
Enid Bagnold . Her mother Pandora Clifford was the daughter of the Hon. Sir Bede Edmund Hugh Clifford
GCMG
CB
(son of
William Hugh Clifford, 10th Baron Clifford of Chudleigh , a descendant of King
Charles II of England ) by his wife Alice Devin Gundry."   "[Evidence Crown Agents Sisters use Astor Family trusts – originally developed by the Scriveners et al. to wage world wars and control world trade –
to develop digital technologies and man-in-the middle propaganda to destroy child-bearing heterosexual families and establish a pedophile-dominated New World Order] REFUGEES FROM NAZI GERMANY
AND
THE LIBERAL EUROPEAN STATES Edited by Frank Caestecker and Bob Moore Chapter 9. Were Unaccompanied Child Refugees a Privileged Class of Refugees in the Liberal States of
Europe ? Claudia Curio" .. "Dame Stephanie "Steve" Shirley,
DBE ,
FRA ,
FREng ,
FRSA
(born September 16, 1933,
Dortmund, Germany ) is a
British
businesswoman and
philanthropist . She originally arrived in
Britain
as an unaccompanied
child refugee .
She was placed with foster parents and later re-united with her biological parents, but later claimed she "never really bonded with them" .. In 1962, Shirley founded the software company, F.I. Group (later
Xansa , acquired by
Steria ), and was concerned with creating work opportunities for women with dependents - and employed only women until 1975's
Sex Discrimination Act
made that illegal. She adopted the name "Steve" to help her in the male-dominated business world.
She officially retired at the age of 60 in 1993 and has taken up philanthropy since then. Shirley was appointed
Officer of the Order of the British Empire
(OBE) in the 1980
Queen's Birthday Honours ,
and promoted
Dame Commander
(DBE) in the
New Year Honours , 2000.
In 1987, she gained the
Freedom of the City of London . She was President of the
British Computer Society
from 1989 to 1990. In 1985, she was awarded a Recognition of Information Technology Award. In 1999 she received the
Mountbatten Medal . She has reportedly donated most
of her £150m wealth (from the internal sale to the company staff and later the flotation of F.I. Group) to charity during her retirement.
Beneficiaries include the
Worshipful Company of Information Technologists
and the
Oxford Internet Institute , part of the
Oxford University , through the
Shirley Foundation
.. From May 2009 until May 2010, Dame Stephanie Shirley served as the
UK 's Ambassador for Philanthropy, an appointment of the Cabinet's Office of the Third Sector, giving philanthropists a "voice"." .. "Oxford University is creating the world's first truly multidisciplinary
Internet Institute
.. made possible by a major donation from The Shirley Foundation of over £10m, with public funding totalling £5m from the Higher Education Funding Council for
England . The idea originated with Derek Wyatt MP, was quickly espoused by Colin Lucas, Vice-Chancellor of
Oxford
University , and Andrew Graham, then Master-Elect of Balliol. Two Balliol Fellows, who knew Dame Stephanie from The Worshipful Company of Information Technologists, approached Dame Stephanie for support.
With her strong interest in IT and her penchant for strategic donations, she quickly gave the project her warm support. As she said when the project was first announced, on
4 May 2001 , "for some time now I have been very interested in the social, ethical and other issues raised by the Internet .. Possible research areas include: global law enforcement, governance and regulation, privacy and security, confidentiality and trust, the boundaries of the nation state, participation in the information society, e-Government, the delivery of public services, e-democracy, Internet-enabled healthcare, innovation and knowledge creation, effects on education, the digital divide,
problems and prospects for e-money, impact on music and the creative arts community building and development, and defence and counter-terrorism."   "[Evidence Crown Agents Sisters use Astor Family trusts – originally developed by the Scriveners et al. to wage world wars and control world trade –
to develop digital technologies of D2 Banking and man-in-the middle propaganda to destroy child-bearing heterosexual families and establish a pedophile-dominated New World Order] And, at 66, Steve is still doing it. She was the first Master of the Worshipful Company of Information Technologists, and has funded its City base to the tune of £5 million. She is general inspector to the John Lewis Partnership; head of the Shirley Trust, which finances charitable projects; and is patron of the think-tank Tomorrow's Company, because she pioneered so many new management methods. `Basically, feminine management,' she says. `Women work cooperatively rather than competitively.' She is tickled when I call her an unknown feminist heroine. `I used to say, "I'm not a feminist, I'm a humanist." I really believe in empowering people. I still work more with women, prefer their methods, and if that is feminism, then yes, I'm a feminist.' Steve Shirley was born in 1933 into a prosperous Jewish family in
Germany . In 1939, her parents despatched five-year-old Stephanie to
Britain . When the family was reunited after the war, Stephanie had grown too close to her English foster parents to re-bond with her blood family ..
At 18, instead of going to university, she embarked on a degree course at night school while working in the research department of the Post Office in Dollis Hill in London, where she helped to develop the first electronic telephone exchanges, and Ernie, the Premium Bond computer. When she married Derek, she bowed to the convention that it was inappropriate for husband and wife to work together, and moved to the computer company
ICL . There, she hit the glass ceiling, which was a fair bit lower than it is today. Even before then, Steve had noticed with dismay the waste of talent and experience which occurred when marriage and motherhood forced women out of the workforce. She had also realised that, as computer usage spread, companies would need tailor-made software, and that it could be developed and marketed as a product separate from the hardware. So she resigned from
ICL
and launched Flexible Information (FI), and a system of working whereby women at home could work flexible hours. Setting up the business was not immediately plain sailing. `It was proving hard to gain access to potential customers, so Derek suggested I started signing my letters Steve instead of Stephanie, and that got my foot in the door.' Eventually she was to get through the doors of companies including British Steel, Shell and Unilever."    We name below some
City & Guilds'
Livery Companies we associate with Crown Agents
Sisters'
alleged use of pedophile entrapment and extortion to support man-in-the-middle attacks on leaders and family-office bordereaux frauds at
`long-cold'
crime scenes.   Scriveners (Sisters' pedophile family-office and bordereaux frauds since 18th Century) International Bankers (D2 Banking fraud on Livery/Feudal Families at Canada Square) Insurers (Asymmetric Threats Contingency and Abacus frauds on Lloyd's of London)
Stationers & Newspapermakers (Sohonet Age of Stupid Copyright for sexual extortion) Launderers (First responders to be deployed for spoliation of crime scene evidence)
Information Technologists (Canary Wharf digital data for D2 Banking snuff films) Solicitors (Manipulation of Franco-PROMIS to enrich Daubert defense lawyers) Management Consultants (Abusive tax shelters to finance fake/real CSI snuff films) Security Professionals (Prison-based pedophiles through Krayleigh CSI crime scenes)
Constructors (Built CANARIE Sohonet virtual war rooms for Canary Wharf Group)    Haberdashers (Paisley pattern strangler scarf at United 93 Ogilvy/Sohonet crime scene)
Solicitors (Structure snuff-film production debt recovery on box-office bordereaux)   Environmental Cleaners (Cleaned up UNDXed levees after Hurricane Pam and Katrina)   Arbitrators (Nominees' "bordereaux" insurance at 9/11 sites, MI-6 Pimlico safe house) Leathersellers (Pink bags, ePassport and Traka key rings for pedophile sex tourists) Air Pilots and Air Navigators (Airwave/Traka in Femme Comp Inc and MI-6 pink bag) Hackney Carriage Drivers (Airwave/Traka into Metropolitan Police and MI-6 pink bag)
Plumbers (Crime scene signature with Gareth Williams' body placed in bath) Fishmongers (Triangular trader, dolphin tattoo, contract hits back to at least 1381) Gunmakers (Triangular traders, supplied weapons, Zodiac for Mumbai Massacre 2008)   World Traders (Event arbitrage in London. Naked shorting DJIA in Chicago on 9/11)
Butchers (Williams' body mis-treated per the M.O. of Sextortionists at B.C. pig farm)
Fuellers (Diesel in WTC7, Murder of Carlton Bartels, founder of CO2e.com) Armourers and Brasiers (Molten Metal nano-powder incendiary demolition of WTC#7) Gardeners (Sextortion - By the sweat of thy brow thow shalt eate thy bread)   Firefighters (My Range radios for man-in-the-middle Twin Towers snuff films on 9/11)
Cordwainers (Tools fit description of wound which allegedly killed Kit Marlowe) Brewers (Set up Deptford tavern of Dame Eleanor Bull for Kit Marlowe murder) Apothecaries (Production of Bodkin heroin - Dope - near Calvi Blackfriars Bridge)
"Crown Agents is exactly what its name implies, an agent of Her Majesty the Queen. It was founded in 1833 as Crown Agents for the Colonies, and historically played a vital role in the creation and management of what British historians call the Third Empire
.. Crown Agents printed the stamps and banknotes of the colonies; provided technical, engineering, and financial services; served as private bankers to the colonial monetary authorities, government officials, and heads of state; served as arms procurers, quartermasters, and paymasters for the colonial armies .. Her Majesty's Murder, Inc. .. Crown Agents' range of ``services''--arms procurement, border controls, offshore banking--also nicely fit the ``administrative requirements'' of the world's organized crime cartels .. review of some of the more sordid aspects of the recent history of Crown Agents, suggest (Message over 64 KB, truncated)
Your message has been successfully submitted and would be delivered to recipients shortly.