My Cultural Landscape: September 2010
My Cultural Landscape
(Copyright George Heymont, All Rights Reserved)
Wednesday, September 29, 2010
You Take The High Road and I'll Take The Low Road
Once a play has been around for 300-400 years, reviewing it in performance is no longer a question of judging the script's artistic merits. Those are long established and accepted as a given.
Like a recipe, however, a script is a road map for creativity. A cook may add some spices and make other small changes to a basic recipe that gives the final product a personal touch. Stage directors and actors do the same, often tweaking an ancient plot line to make it more relevant to modern audiences.
Occasionally, the addition of nonspoken
shtick
can add wonderfully insightful touches of humanity to a production. It doesn't matter whether the play in question is considered "high" or "low" comedy. The bottom line is laughter.
The craft that sparks an audience's laughter is more precise than one may imagine. When  Hello, Dolly!  first became a success,
Carol Channing
had a friend take notes of every movement, inflection, and minute bit of detail in the production. In subsequent revivals, that notebook became her bible. “It is inviolate,” she claimed. “If you don’t do each gesture on cue, you don’t get the laugh that comes with it.”
Two classic comedies of note recently received new productions.
Each play is more than 300 years old.
Each script offers grand opportunities for a director and his cast.
Each production was nurtured by one of the Bay area's leading regional theatre companies.
Each production was directed by a major talent whose career has been nourished by Bay area audiences.
Although one play was carefully scripted, the other was not. How well did each fare with its audience?
* * * * * * * * * * First staged in
Paris
in 1671,
Moliere's
farce,  Les
Fourberies
de
Scapin , embraces several stock characters ( Scapino , Zerbinette) from the
commedia dell'arte
tradition. Because the title character is given free rein to indulge in all kinds of scandalous behavior, he can be a prick or a
prankster , a
clown
or a curmudgeon.
With the beloved
Bill Irwin
in charge of casting and directing
A.C.T.'s
new production of
Scapin
(as well as taking the lead role), there was little doubt that
Scapin
would be an evening of low comedy delivered by a seasoned professional clown. Adapted by Bill Irwin and
Mark O'Donnell , with a unit set designed by
Erik Flatmo  and costumes by Beaver Bauer, this new production of
Scapin
is light, bright, pretty to look at and, for the most part, quite enjoyable.
Act I contains a great deal of Irwin's trademark moves as a clown and sets the stage for a comedy of mistaken identities. Octave (Gregory Walker) speaks to Sylvestre ( Jud Williford ) of his secret marriage to Hyacinth (Ashley Wickett) and his frustrations with his overbearing father, Argante (Steven Anthony Jones). Leander (Patrick Lane) confesses his passion for the mysterious Zerbinette (Rene Augesen) despite his father Geronte's ( Geoff Hoyle ) desire that he marry well.
Bill Irwin and Jud Williford in
Scapin . (Photo by: Kevin Berne)
What soon becomes obvious is that, in the absence of their fathers, the sons have rebelled and the servants want revenge on their employers. This plot is as old as the hills (or at least
Plautus ) and will resurface in a few weeks when
42nd Street Moon
offers a semi-staged production of
Stephen Sondheim's
1962 hit musical,
A Funny Thing Happened on the Way to the Forum .
However, I had the strangest reaction to the performance of
Scapin
that I attended. It felt as if the energy in Act I was from a completely different show than what held the stage in Act II. I'm still struggling to find a way to articulate how odd this was. My guess is that Act I's excessive weightiness was caused by the need for careful
exposition
(combined with Irwin's injection of jokes specifically aimed at A.C.T. subscribers "who keep coming back for more").
Once the curtain rose on Act II, levity returned to the stage and the farce continued to build through to the final curtain (in spite of a fairly ridiculous chase scene). When Irwin finally got a chance to lock horns with someone of equal talent (the great Geoff Hoyle), the proceedings went to an entirely new level.
Bill Irwin and Geoff Hoyle in Scapin (Photo by: Kevin Berne)
Randy Craig (keyboards) and Keith Terry (percussion) supplied the musical accompaniment with Omozé Idehenre adding to the confusion as Nerine (Hyacinth's wet nurse). Ben Johnson and Keith Pinto did double duty as
gendarmes
and
porters .  Scapin
continues through October 23 at the American Conservatory Theatre. You can order tickets
here .
* * * * * * * * * * * Over at the Bruns Amphitheatre in
Orinda , the
California Shakespeare Theatre
scored a major hit with their final production of the season. First published in 1600, the comedy in  Much Ado About Nothing
is a bit more sophisticated than anything you'll find in
Scapin .
Shakespeare's
Beatrice ( Domenique
Lozano ) and Benedick (Andy Murray) are the unlikeliest of lovers.
Each is older and wiser than their friends.
Each purports to hate the other's guts.
Each is perfectly suited to each other (largely due to their intellectual strength) in ways they find difficult to understand.
Beatrice (Dominique Lozano) and Benedick (Andy Murray) in Much Ado About Nothing (Photo by: Jay Yamada)
At the play's outset, one could easily ask either character "If you're so smart, how come you're so stupid?"
Meanwhile, Beatrice's cousin, Hero ( Emily Kitchens ), and Benedick's friend, Claudio ( Nick
Childress ), have fallen in puppy love with each other. Their wedding, however, is sabotaged by "the bastard Prince" (Don John), whose brother, Don Pedro ( Nicholas
Pelczar ), is the Prince of
Aragon .
Hero (Emily Kitchens) and Claudio (Nick Childress) in Much Ado About Nothing  (Photo by: Kevin Berne)
Opening night of
Much Ado About Nothing
was one of those blessed evenings in the theatre. The moon was full, the weather balmy, and the production (which features
Daniel
Ostlig's
unit set and costumes designed by
Christal
Weatherly ) easy on the eyes. Much of the credit for the show's success -- which was one of the most fulfilling performances of a Shakespearean play I have ever attended -- falls to director
Jonathan
Moscone . As Moscone (who is celebrating his 10-year anniversary as artistic director of the California Shakespeare Theatre) notes: "When you make theater outdoors, you have no choice but to be present, for the outside world is your world. Nothing separates you. It is altogether bracing, for nothing can be taken for granted. And I love, love, love that about this job. It requires right brain/left brain, 24/7. It demands presence. And when I get exhausted, or I complain, my love for this job, and for this company, is in full bloom. I make theater and I work in a business. I tell stories through language and movement, sound, light, clothes, and architecture. I do this with a lot of people and for a lot of people. Theater is what I do, plain and simple. I’ve been doing it professionally since 1993, and unprofessionally since I was two years old; and I will continue to do it until they take the baton away from me and send me to the retirement home for useless directors with no other marketable skills." While the supporting cast included
Dan
Hiatt
as Leonato,
Andrew
Hurteau
as Friar Francis, and
Delia
MacDougall
as Margaret, the true star of the evening turned out to be the irrepressible
Danny
Scheie .
In an election year where people have thrown out brazenly untrue accusations and shown absolutely no remorse for their own blithering  incompetence , Don John's use of
character assassination
as a form of evil sport (against a helpless and innocent victim) has an eerie timeliness. Casting Scheie in both roles was a stroke of genius. What he did with each character was a thrilling display of craftsmanship and comic timing.
Danny Scheie (Photo by: Jay Yamada)
If you have ever, in your wildest fantasies, wanted to see what it would be like to have
Leslie Jordan
performing Shakespeare, you simply cannot afford to miss Danny Scheie's brilliant performance as the evil Don John and the idiotic chief constable of Messina,
Dogberry . It is a theatrical tour de force.
Performances of  Much Ado About Nothing
continue at the Bruns Amphitheatre through October 17. You can order tickets
here .
Posted by
geoheymont
at
4:22 PM
0
comments
Monday, September 27, 2010
It Takes A Woman
No one would ever accuse Horace Vandergelder of being a
feminist . One of
Thornton Wilder's
most famous characters, Vandergelder proudly describes himself as "rich, friendless, and mean -- which in
Yonkers
is about as far as you can go."  This is how the old coot explains his philosophy shortly after coming onstage in " The Matchmaker ":
"Ninety-nine percent of the people in the world are fools and the rest of us are in great danger of contagion. But I wasn't always free of foolishness as I am now. I was young once, which was foolish. I fell in love, which was foolish. And I got married, which was foolish. And for a while I was poor, which was more foolish than all the other things put together. Then my wife died, which was foolish of her. I grew older, which was sensible of me.
Then I became a rich man, which is as sensible as it is rare. Since you see I'm a man of sense, I guess you were surprised to hear that I'm planning to get married again. Well, I've two reasons for it. In the first place, I like my house run with order, comfort, and economy. That's a woman's work. But even a woman can't do it well if she's merely being paid for it. In order to run a house well, a woman must have the feeling that she owns it. Marriage is a bribe to make a housekeeper think she's a householder." I can't help but wonder how Horace Vandergelder would have reacted to some of the women I saw onstage last week!
* * * * * * * * * * * When one looks at the evolution of
La Cage aux Folles
following the premiere of the original stage version by  Jean Poiret , one can't help but be impressed by the rapidity with which it morphed into other versions.
Poiret's play opened in Paris at the
Theatre du Palais-Royal
on February 1, 1973 with the playwright and
Michel Serrault
in the lead roles. That production ran for nearly 1,800 performances.
In 1978, a film adaptation of
La Cage aux Folles
was released starring
Ugo Tognazzi
with Serrault repeating his triumph as Albin/Zaza.
In 1980, a sequel entitled
La Cage aux Folles II
was released as a half-comedy, half-thriller in which Albin and Georges are pursued by spies and government agents.
In 1983, the musical adaptation of
La Cage aux Folles
(with book by  Harvey Fierstein  and music and lyrics by  Jerry Herman ) opened at Broadway's
Palace Theatre . The original production won six
Tony awards
and ran for 1,761 performances.
In 1985, " La Cage aux Folles 3: The Wedding " was released.
In 1996, an American film version adapted by
Elaine May
and directed by
Mike Nichols
was released.
The Birdcage
(which starred
Robin Williams ,
Nathan Lane ,
Hank Azaria ,
Dianne Wiest , and
Gene Hackman ) became a major hit.
Although a 2004 Broadway revival received mixed reviews and only ran for 229 performances, the current revival (modeled after the scaled-down production from London's
Menier Chocolate Factory ) is holding its own at the
Longacre Theatre .
La Cage aux Folles
is also the only musical to have won the Tony Award for Best Production on three separate occasions.
Alex Acevedo as Phaedra  (Photo by: Mark Kitaoka)
Broadway By The Bay
recently staged  La Cage aux Folles  using a production that featured a
Hello, Dolly!
style runway around the
orchestra pit . Directed by Mark Jacobs and choreographed by Robyn Tribuzi, the production underscored Jerry Herman's influence in shaping
La Cage
as an old-fashioned musical at a time when shows written by
Stephen Sondheim
and
Andrew Lloyd Webber
were taking audiences for musicals in a very different direction.
While Herman's score has fewer songs than his previous shows ( Milk and Honey ,
Hello, Dolly! ,
Mame ,
Dear World  and
Mack and Mabel ), his talent for crafting a rousing production number for the Act I curtain is unmatched. " I Am What I Am " quickly became an
anthem
for many people in the
gay rights movement
(the original production made its Broadway debut at a time when
homophobia
was reaching peak levels as the
AIDS
crisis worsened). The show's other big number, "The Best of Times" has become a popular standard although I personally prefer the poignant solo for Georges entitled "Look Over There."
Georges (Curt Denham) and Albin (Ray Mendonca) in
La Cage aux Folles
(Photo by: Mark Kitaoka)
The strength of Broadway By The Bay's production rested primarily with its two leads ( Curt Denham  as Georges and   Ray Mendonca  as Albin). This production also marked a rare instance in which the role of Georges was cast with an actor who has a solid set of pipes.
Others in the cast included George P. Scott as Jacob (the flamboyant black maid),  Justin Basl  as the gay couple's son,
Elise Marie Kennedy  as Jacqueline, Steve Schwartz as the conservative politician, Eduoard Didon, and Donna Cima as Mme. Dindon. Among the Cagelles, Alex Acevedo blossomed as Phaedra, Michael Escamilla doubled as Dermah and Hercule, Christo Romasanto was Lo Singh, and  Justin Buchs  stood out as a fiercely dominant Hanna.
Justin Buchs as Hanna (Photo by: Mark Kitaoka)
Performances of
La Cage aux Folles
continue through October 3 at the San Mateo Performing Arts Center. You can order tickets
here .
* * * * * * * * * Nothing could be further removed from Albin's drag sensitivity and ideas about maternal love than the  Crowded Fire Theatre Company's  production of
The Secretaries , the hilarious and bloodthirsty farce written by   The Five Lesbian Brothers . As directed by  Marissa Wolf , this estrogen-infused stage farce focuses on five deeply conflicted women sharing an office in Big Bone, Oregon.
A tear-away day calendar dominates Nick A. Olivero's unit set for an office in which five women have managed to coordinate their menstrual flows to stunning effect.
Fight Club
may have given male office workers an outlet for their aggression, but every 28 days brings a new "kill night" for the women running Cooney's Lumber Mill. Lumberjacks with industry-appropriate names like Chip, Dusty, Woody, and Buzz all seem to disappear days before one of the secretaries shows up wearing their warm winter clothing.
Susan (Leticia Duarte) and her new Patty (Elissa Beth Stebbins) in  The Secretaries  (Photo by: Timothy Faust)
Enter Patty ( Elissa Beth Stebbins ), the top graduate in her secretarial class and the kind of naive young woman who takes a while to catch on to office politics. Although she is awe of her powerful boss, Susan (Leticia Duarte), and eager to befriend the office brown-noser, Ashley (Khamara Pettus), Patty doesn't quite know how to handle some of her other co-workers.
Peaches
( Eleanor Mason Reinholdt ) wants Patty to slap her each time she catches Peaches eating anything other than a Slim-Fast meal.
Dawn
( Marilee Talkington ) is an aggressive lipstick lesbian who is eager to make Patty her new best friend forever.
Buzz
(also played by Talkington) is the sweet lumberjack who has been boning Patty on their lunch breaks.
Buzz (Marilee Talkington) and Patty (Elissa Beth Stebbins) take
a break from work in
The Secretaries
(Photo by: Timothy Faust)
While there are lots of laughs to be found between the office pool's heavy flow days, what makes this production remarkable is the performance of Marilee Talkington, who doubles as Dawn and Buzz. Talkington's phenomenal skill as a physical comedian is made all the more remarkable by the fact that this actor is legally blind. She deserves some kind of award for her performance in this production.
The Secretaries
runs through October 9 (order tickets  here ). In the meantime, enjoy the following trailer:
Posted by
geoheymont
at
2:53 PM
0
comments
Sunday, September 26, 2010
"Go ahead," he said sarcastically. "Bite the bullet!"
During the past decade, many Americans have grown to love the kind of politically-oriented
sarcasm
that has been perfected by people like
Jon Stewart ,
Stephen Colbert ,
Bill Maher ,
Lewis Black , and
Margaret Cho . The writers for
The Daily Show
have perfected a technique of researching and then juxtaposing inane statements made by politicians with previous footage of their comments on the same subject. Consider the following brilliant piece of editing:
The Daily Show With Jon Stewart Mon - Thurs 11p / 10c
Postcards From the Pledge
www.thedailyshow.com
Daily Show Full Episodes Political Humor Tea Party
On September 20,at a town hall meeting held at the
Newseum
in
Washington, D.C .,
Anthony Scaramucci
(the founder and managing partner of hedge fund
Skybridge Capital, L.L.C. ) addressed the following question to
President Barack Obama :
"I represent the
Wall Street
community. We have felt like a
pinata . Maybe you don't feel like you've been whacking us with a stick, but we certainly feel like we've been whacked with a stick. When are we gonna stop whacking at the Wall Street pinata?" Three nights later, Jon Stewart delivered the perfect reply to Scaramucci's vainglorious question::
" Um, I don't know, maybe when the fucking candy comes out! How about that? That's how pinatas work. " A little bit of
lemon juice
goes a long way -- especially when applied to an open sore. That's why two entries into the  2010 San Francisco Fringe Festival  had audiences either laughing their heads off or nodding in bitter agreement with the performers.
* * * * * * * * * * *
Billed as "L.A.'s premiere multicultural sketch comedy troupe,"
OPM Comedy  (the OPM stands for "opening people's minds) is a frequent visitor to the San Francisco Fringe Festival. This year's entry,  OPM's Green Tea Party  once again delivered sharp, sophisticated satire with an appropriate Asian twist. Their first skit,
Green Tea Party  paid tribute to the Asian edition of the
Tea Party movement
which, in addition to to resenting taxes, insists that people don't wear shoes inside the house.
Photo by: Ewan Chung
The hilarious
Leaders in Jeopardy  mocked the popular quiz show in a segment during which
Alex Trebek  (Dave Wilder) faced a panel /comprised of
Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  (Ewan Chung),
Kim Jong-Il  (Charles Kim), and
Sarah Palin
( Diana Toshiko ).
Oh, Arizona
was a brief skit built around an Asian couple from California (Ewan Chung and Diana Toshiko) who get pulled over by the
Arizona Highway Patrol
following the enactment of
SB 1070 . OPM Comedy has also been making some brilliant videos. This " iPhone " clip (from 2009's
Fists of Funny
show) still packs a delightful punch:
Other skits, such as
Happy Birthday, Julius Caesar, Chuy the Cholo, Dumb Professor , and
K-Town 9-0-O-M'-GOD!
scored strongly. But without doubt, the audience favorite was
Glee: Season 2
(which took devastating aim at how the silent Asian boy on the series is treated). Another gem, was this short film (written and directed by John Lopez) entitled
The Guy Who Cured Cancer.
* * * * * * * * * Directed by David Ford,  Love and Sex in the Earth's Spin Cycle
is
Lambeth Sterling's
one-woman show in which she attempts to save audience members thousands of dollars and years of grief by explaining what they won't learn in therapy about the pitfalls of dating and marriage. A true "daughter of the South" (and a certified
relationship coach ), Sterling carries a well-deserved chip on her shoulder as she examines the various forms of insanity underlying different methods of counseling. As Lambeth explains in her program, "Yes, these stories are true. Why else would I stand up here and tell stories like this if they weren't?"
Lambeth Sterling in her wedding gown (Photo by: Bill Patterson)
Unfortunately, at the performance I attended, the temperature in the 40-seat Exit Studio was starting to feel like a dry
sauna , a condition which Sterling noted and, in spite of  its toll on the audience, bravely confronted. While her material is quite hilarious, there is a bitter tinge of disillusionment and brutal sarcasm in her delivery which often makes her advice even funnier. The following clip gives a sample of her act (try to see it in a theatre that has a decent ventilation system).
Posted by
geoheymont
at
10:35 PM
1 comments
Friday, September 24, 2010
Can't Live With Them, Can't Live Without Them
Unlike many students, I did not pack up and leave home to move to a
campus dorm  after graduating from
Midwood High School . Instead, I attended
Brooklyn College , which was located right across the street from the school I had just left. I rode the same bus to school, experienced the same weather conditions, and lived in the same house where I had spent most of my adolescence and teen years.
However, during my senior year of college, my father asked me to do him a favor and leave home.My parents' marriage was undergoing severe stress as my mother went through another one of her long periods of
clinical depression . My father (who was quite worried about how the bitter silence in our home might affect me) suggested that I find a furnished room near the campus that I could rent until I graduated.
Many families face a period of forced separation (or alienation) where the moment's urgency can best be summed up  with the words "This is going to hurt me a whole lot more than it's going to hurt you."  While the room I rented was no less depressing than our home, a growing sense of emotional independence made it easier for me to seize a job opportunity that came my way in the fall of 1969.
Having spent several summers working at a sailing camp in
Wakefield, Rhode Island , I leapt at an opportunity to move to
Rhode Island
and take over a clerical position at the Greater Providence YMCA. The three years I spent in
New England
were, in essence, an incubatory period until I moved to  San Francisco
on my 25th birthday in 1972.
I was extremely lucky that, when I left New York, I moved to an area where I knew nearly 400 families from my work during the summer months. As a result, I was often invited into people's homes for holiday dinners and social gatherings. For many others, leaving their families can be a much more wrenching emotional experience, with sacrifices all around.
* * * * * * * * * Anyone who complains about the service on San Francisco's
MUNI  system should be forced to sit through a screening of  The Last Train Home .  Lixin Fan's  gritty documentary follows a family of Chinese
migrant workers
during the annual
Chinese New Year
migration when 130 million people leave China's factories and cities to return home to their families
Once you experience this film, you'll have a keener understanding of why
China
is leading other international
superpowers
in its race to build a network of
high-speed rail
lines to serve its huge population. The crowded conditions on its current trains -- as a transit system is swamped by homebound humans (who resemble hordes of lemmings or salmon in their desperation to return home) -- make MUNI Metro look like a chauffeured private
limousine . As the filmmaker explains:
"The
migration
of the
peasant
work force started in the early 1980s, when the country first opened its economy. The influx of foreign investment created numerous
factory towns
in the southern coastal regions. A soaring demand for labor lured millions out of their farmland to work in factories. With the loosening of the country’s long-standing household registration system, people started to move around to find opportunities to better their lives. Today, even after decades of work, low wages and the lack of rights prevents them from bringing their families from the villages to the cities. China has set a goal to urbanize half of its 1.3 billion population by 2020, and 70% by 2050. The Spring Festival problem is more related to social policies than the transportation system. The fact is, no matter how many roads you build, it’s just impossible to transport such a large amount of passengers all at once in one direction. A more rational solution is the implementation of labor law, granting the migrant workers the social care and support they deserve, and allowing their families to move to the cities."  While
The Last Train Home
includes some breathtaking footage of rural Chinese landscapes, the majority of the film focuses on the stress endured by millions of Chinese migrant workers as they try to secure a train ticket, make it onto the train, and endure a round trip experience that would make America's airline passengers think twice about complaining about the quality of service they receive. There are poignant scenes between parents who almost never have a chance to see their children and rebellious teenagers who only want the latest fashions or electronic toys. Above all, there is an overwhelming feeling of
helplessness
as people endure a debilitating migration that brings little happiness but, for largely cultural reasons, cannot be avoided. Here's the trailer:
* * * * * * * * *
By contrast,  Oliver Stone's
new film,  Wall Street: Money Never Sleeps , deals with a population so wealthy that it would seem as if it had the world at its fingertips. Wealthy
hedge fund
traders, aspiring
stockbrokers , and those who consider themselves to be the modern captains of the
financial services industry
suffer a rude setback when the market for
credit default swaps
suddenly tanks and their wealth evaporates.
Beyond that, the sequel to 1987's  Wall Street  is one of those movies whose production notes are often more interesting than the film itself. Referring to a scene in which a charity benefit dinner is attended by New York’s
high society
(and designed to illustrate the height of big money on Wall Street), production designer
Kristi Zea
recalls that “Oliver wanted the gala to be like the party on the
Titanic
before it sank."
As the filmmaker himself explains: “What shocked me was that this
exponentially-growing
accumulation of wealth kept going into the 1990s and 2000s. The numbers grew and grew, so the millions of dollars became billions of dollars and the greed of
Gordon Gekko
was swamped by the greed of the banks. By 2008, no more Gordon Gekkos were possible. That character, that kind of
buccaneer , was now gone, replaced by institutions that had once formerly been regulated. In the past, a bank was a bank, and an insurance company was an insurance company. In 2008, that all changed. The
firewalls
between these functions were destroyed by the deregulation of the 1980s and 1990s.” As he continued to research how things had changed in financial circles, Stone found himself greeted like a cultural hero by many Wall Street types (a welcome which gave him incredible access to an insider's view of trading). Parts of  Wall Street: Money Never Sleeps  were filmed on trading floors at the
Royal Bank of Canada
at the
World Financial Center
in downtown
Manhattan ,
Creditex
in midtown Manhattan, and
Knight Capita l in
Jersey City, New Jersey . The society benefit dinner was actually filmed in the Great Hall of the former
Cunard  Building at 25 Broadway, which Zea describes as "a classical space with towering Roman arches."
I couldn't agree more. As an adolescent who was obsessed with
ocean liners , I made several
pilgrimages
to the Cunard Building to ogle the
scale models
of ocean liners in their front hallway. Those were the days when I would ride my bicycle from
Brooklyn's Marine Park
neighborhood over to the
Narrows
and take a ferry to
Staten Island , where I would then connect to one of the
Staten Island ferries
that crossed
New York Harbor
to the
South Ferry
terminal adjacent to  Battery Park .
Stone's cast and crew were surprised by what they learned.
Josh Brolin  (who had once worked as a
day trader ) recalls that:
“I went to the floor and talked to [traders], and the great thing about going to the floor was how it exists now. Because everything’s communicated digitally, it can get boring down on the floor for them. So I got to hear all the stories of how it used to be, when these guys were knee-deep in paper, and writing down all the orders and looking at the calls and the puts and options. They said you could feel the buzz.” Shia LeBeouf  discovered that, not only has technology changed the business of investing, it has made the financial world more insular as well.
“They have these private
Twitter
accounts and they send information around that way. For example, someone can tweet that a certain institution is going to jump two basis points that day. You just don’t get that immediacy in a newspaper. By the time you read it in the paper, the information is old news.” And production designer Kristi Zea recalls:
"I really wanted to find the largest, biggest, most outstanding looking
trading floors
we could find. But the trading floors have changed dramatically since  Wall Street . The technological advances that have been made are amazing in terms of the speed of the transactions and the need for quick, immediate decisions and what the computer has done to the financial world. I was amazed when I started scouting locations to see the number of people who are actually in this field, trading daily.”
Oliver Stone spends a great deal of time shooting the facades of Manhattan's glass towers as he tries to show what new money has bought. Ironically, the film has a strangely off-putting effect on the audience.
Many of the dramatic clashes set at the
Federal Reserve Bank of New York , on trading floors (and in scenes where people discover that their money no longer has the same buying power they have grown to expect), pale in comparison to what has befallen America's middle class. The self-indulgent games of power brokers seem as childish as the complaints recently expressed to
President Obama
during a
town hall meeting  by a hedge fund manager who felt that he -- and
Wall Street
in general -- were getting whacked like a
pinata
by the government.
The result is a film that -- for all the family drama that has been built around Gordon Gekko's release from prison, his rehabilitation in the public's eye (through a book tour), and his strained relations with his daughter, Winnie ( Carey Mulligan ) -- is surprisingly dull and hollow. A great movie, this most certainly is not.
For all the timeliness of
Wall Street: Money Never Sleeps , the film's most rewarding moments are certainly not the ones you might expect. There is unanticipated exhilaration and joy to be found in watching 94-year-old  Eli Wallach  and 78-year-old  Sylvia Miles  steal the movie away from "youngsters" like  Michael Douglas ,  Susan Sarandon , and  Frank Langella  and the even younger generation of talented "little pishers" like Shia LeBeouf, Josh Brolin, and Carey Mulligan.  Here's the trailer:
* * * * * * * * * Over at  Fort Mason Center , the  Magic Theatre  presented the West Coast premiere of  The Brothers Size  (the second installment in  Tarrell Alvin McCraney's   Brother/Sister  plays). Although I had been quite underwhelmed by
In The Red and Brown Water  when I saw the first part of McCraney's trilogy at  Marin Theatre Company , director  Octavio Solis  scored a home run with Magic Theatre's production of  The Brothers Size .
Much to my relief, the playwright's use of spoken stage directions is noticeably diminished in this play and, as such, worked to much greater effect. McCraney's writing is far more poetic, muscular, and masculine in this play and it reeks of his experience growing up in the Miami projects (according to the program notes, the first reading of the play took place in a courtyard in the projects).
Oshoosi Size (Tobie Windham) and Ogun Size (Joshua Elijah Reese)
in
The Brothers Size . (Photo by: Jennifer Reiley)
The Brothers Size
has a cast of three black men:
Ogun Size
( Joshua Elijah Reese ) is the responsible older brother who works as a car mechanic. As a young man, Ogun frequently shouldered the blame for his younger brother's bad behavior. As a grown man, he has stayed employed, never spent time in jail and, despite being abandoned by his wife (Oya), has managed to keep his life on an even keel. When push comes to shove, Ogun must decide whether or not he can be his brother's keeper.
Oshoosi Size
( Tobie Windham ) is Ogun's irresponsible kid brother who has just been released from prison. Oshoosi doesn't want to talk to his older brother about things that happened to him while he was incarcerated. At the same time, he needs some wheels so he can go out and get laid.
Elegba
( Alex Ubokudom)  is Oshoosi's close friend and the man with whom Oshoosi most likely had a " down-low " sexual relationship while the two men were in prison.
Alex Ubokudom as Elegba (Photo by:  Jennifer Reiley)
In
The Brothers Size , the relationship between Ogun and Oshoosi comes to a head after Oshoosi  has an unfortunate run in with the police, who find some
cocaine
hidden in Elegba's gym bag when they inspect the trunk of their car. Up until then, Ogun had been trying to get Oshoosi motivated to get a job and start living a straight life.
However, with the police on Oshoosi's trail, there is precious little time for the two brothers to come to grips with what it means to be a blood brother, a spiritual brother, and (in the case of Oshoosi's relationship with Elegba) a gay brother. This is a play in which male anguish holds hands with macho bravado and in which each brother's sense of shame is brought out into the open. The necessary sacrifice that Ogun soon realizes is unavoidable is for him to encourage Oshoosi to flee to Mexico and for Ogun to deny his kid brother's very existence.
In a 2008 interview in the
Sunday Times of London , McCraney stated:
" Essex Hemphill
has this saying, 'Two black men loving one another is a revolutionary act.' He didn't say 'two black gay men,' he just said 'two black men.' It's something we don't see. I wanted to put it on stage -- these men, in all forms of color, trying to figure out how to love themselves and each other". The Brothers Size
offers three forceful portrayals of black men struggling to reconcile their needs with their responsibilities. It is a powerful piece of theatre, beautifully performed by a tightly-knit ensemble. Performances continue at the Magic Theatre through October 17. You can order tickets
here .
Posted by
geoheymont
at
2:32 PM
0
comments
Thursday, September 23, 2010
Tepid Is As Tepid Does
Not every project delivers the anticipated results. Like many a recipe, what sounds good on paper can arrive undercooked, overcooked, tasting strange, or looking remarkably unappetizing.
It might not be the fault of the carefully-selected ingredients. Oven temperature and timing are critical elements in creating a successful dish.
Sometimes a hidden factor may sabotage an artistic project's success. It may be something very basic that lies at the core of the concept or it may be something so acutely specific and intentional that no one stopped to question its importance.
Whenever I run across one of these disappointments (or curiosities) I try to ask myself why the film or drama in question didn't work for me. It could be that I'm not reacting the way others would react. It's also possible that I might be seeing a critical flaw that others have chosen to ignore.
* * * * * * * In the case of  Jack Goes Boating , the answer is so obvious it's almost painful. One would expect that
Philip Seymour Hoffman's
film adaptation of
Robert Glaudini's
2007 play would be a sure thing (especially considering that Hoffman,
John Ortiz , and
Daphne Rubin-Vega
were all part of the original cast).
What could possibly have gone wrong? Transferring the play to the large screen allowed Hoffman (in his debut as a feature film director) to take the action outside and show the grungy reality of his character's lives. Doing so robbed the property of much of its lyricism, which blossomed so beautifully in a live performance.
In particular, Hoffman's characterization of Jack as a somewhat boring shlub who wants to improve himself fails to connect with the audience. In large part, this is due to Hoffman's sensationally bovine performance. Frequent extended closeups of him staring vacantly into the camera do little to help the audience empathize with Jack.
What could possibly have gone wrong with a play that resonated so well with audiences? The answer is surprisingly simple. In adapting Glaudini's poignant dramedy for the screen, Hoffman was forced to take an extremely literal approach to the material. Doing so eliminated all of the inherent magic of the theatre that bolstered the play in live performance.
Poster art for  Jack Goes Boating
One of my keenest memories of last year's production of
Jack Goes Boating  at the Aurora Theatre Company was how beautifully it drew the audience into the action -- especially in the scenes where Clyde is trying to teach Jack how to swim. In the theatre, the writing glowed with an aura of dramatic magic. On the screen, the play's poetic vulnerability evaporated into thin air.
The reason theatre audiences want Jack to succeed in courting Connie is because they sense his determination to impress her, to break free of his life as a limousine driver, and to actually move up in the world. That desire becomes more communicable in live performance, where the audience is willing to give of themselves because of the physical proximity to an actor and the shared sense of claustrophobia in Clyde and Lucy's apartment. By trying to spoon feed everything to the audience, the movie sadly misses its mark. Here's the trailer:
* * * * * * * * * James Franco's
fans will probably scream when they see
Howl . I yawned and thought back to the joys of a  short film I saw several years ago at the 2008 Frameline LGBT Film Festival entitled
Allen Ginsberg Gives Great Head . In Singaporean filmmaker X'Ho's 15-minute film a rebellious and very sexy gay Asian man uses Ginsberg's poetry (combined with his own very personal act of masturbation) to make a strong political statement against oppressive governments which rob people of their identity.
By contrast, much of
Rob Epstein
and
Jeffrey Friedman's
new film feels like a chapter of
Law and Order  (Literary Censorship Edition).
Howl
is ostensibly composed of two separate films. In the first, the audience listens to James Franco talking to the camera as
Allen Ginsberg . In the second, the audience follows the censorship trial that erupted in San Francisco over Ginsberg's controversial poem (which, in terms of cinematic drama, can barely hold a candle to
Milos Forman's
1996 film,  The People Versus Larry Flynt ).
Poster art for  HOWL
While Franco is always an interesting actor, I doubt this gig required more than few days' work from a man who is a notorious
multitasker
in real life. There are some scenes in which Ginsberg snuggles with his boyfriend,
Peter Orlovsky
( Aaron Tveit ). The two men also take pictures of each other on the streets of Manhattan.
James Franco as Allen Ginsberg in
Howl
John Hamm
cuts an impressive courtroom figure as Ginsberg's defense attorney,  Jake Ehrlich . The film boasts nice cameos from  Mary Louise Parker
as Gail Potter,
Jeff Daniels
as Professor David Kirk, and
Bob Balaban
as Judge Clayton Horn. What rivets one's attention to the screen, however, is the actual footage of Ginsberg that appears at the end of the film.
In the final analysis, what struck me as the most impressive thing about
Howl
was its acute attention to showcasing
period eyeglass frames
from the 1950s. Here's the trailer:
* * * * * * * * Of all the monologues I saw at the
2010 San Francisco Fringe Festival , I think the most challenging one for me to wrap my head around may well have been a one-man show by Manuel Simons. Ostensibly another coming-out story,
Queer in the U.S.A.
made me acutely aware of my age, the different role models for gay men of my generation, and that coming out remains a difficult process for each person grappling with his sexual identity.
The protagonist in this one-man show is Johnny, a confused
New Jersey
teen who worships
Bruce Springsteen  but has been found lying unconscious in a toilet stall at school. Because his singing voice has yet to settle into the lower registers, Johnny has been kicked out of his high school
glee club
and told to seek help from a voice coach in Manhattan who often works with effeminate men.
Or, as one of his teachers barks, "Face it, you're a little bit light in your shoes!"
The vocal coach Johnny meets specializes in teaching actors how to master the art of appearing and sounding straight, rather than lapsing into suspiciously feminine behavior. Following his coach's advice that a good place to let go of one's anxieties is at the
Brooklyn Botanical Garden , Johnny encounters a woman posing as a
Hungarian
immigrant/ gypsy , who invites him to her store for some tea.
Manuel Simons (Photo by: Benjamin Heller)
Almost all of the items in Helga's store are cheap imitations of the original, but people still like to buy them. Her merchandise may be crap, but Helga's son, George, is the real thing: a butch, young gay man who can't wait to plant a kiss on Johnny's lips.
After George and Johnny spend a night together, Johnny becomes so excited to hear his voice dropping into the lower registers that he runs out to find his vocal coach while George is shopping for breakfast items. When Johnny returns a week later with the good news, George is pissed and no longer interested in seeing him.
Along the way, George reveals that Helga was really born in the United States but has been carrying on some kind of family legend in tribute to her late father. Meanwhile, Johnny has been having a recurring nightmare in which he meets Bruce Springsteen in an airport in the Midwest and gets to sit next to him on a plane. As thrilled as he is to meet his idol, Johnny can't find the words to articulate his intense fascination with Springsteen's crotch as the plane heads for a
crash landing .
Mr. Simons has an impressive vocal instrument, which he can take from a robust baritone to a powerful falsetto. But it wasn't until several hours after seeing
Queer in the U.S.A.
that I realized what seemed so off balance to me.
In addition to the fact that, physically, Simons made me think of a teenaged
Bruce Vilanch , many generations of budding young faggots grew up idolizing
Barbra Streisand ,
Judy Garland ,
Diana Ross ,
Maria Callas ,
Madonna ,
Margaret Cho , and
Kathy Griffin . Because they were so fearful of coming out, there were no male entertainers one could look to who possessed quite the same kind of diva power or the ability to inspire.
Perhaps
Elton John
or
Paul Reubens . But Springsteen?
While there is much to admire in his performance, Manuel Simons offers a very different coming out story from what the gay media usually provides. Here's a sampler of his work (note that in his one-man show, Simons does not use most of these costumes).
Posted by
geoheymont
at
12:41 AM
0
comments
Tuesday, September 21, 2010
Curiouser and Curiouser
The
National Enquirer
has long claimed that "Enquiring Minds Want to Know." No matter how you feel about the hugely successful
supermarket tabloid , stop and think for a minute: What kind of world would we live in if no one ever bothered to ask the basic questions of "Who?" "What?" "Where?" "When?" "Why?" and "How?"
Despite any warnings that
curiosity
killed the cat, the bottom line is that without curiosity there would be no progress. Those who ask difficult questions, seek elusive answers, and contribute to mankind's base of knowledge are continually laying the cornerstones of civilization.
Is curiosity inbred or is it a learned behavior? I'm convinced it's a learned behavior and that a challenged mind is a healthy mind. I make this claim because my father was a high school biology teacher who never stopped asking questions. Whenever my sister and I asked a particularly challenging question, we would be told to "Go look it up!"
Is it any wonder, then, that my sister became a librarian and friends still ask me to help them find certain bits of information? Has no one taught them how to creatively use a search engine like Google for starters?
I recently had a chance to watch three programs that all focused on the importance of curiosity in shaping a person's future. One was an animated feature, the second a one-man show, and the third a documentary that would have truly thrilled my father.
* * * * * * * * * As part of its first  NY/SF International Children's Film Festival , the  San Francisco Film Society  will offer a screening of  Eleanor's Secret
on Saturday, September 25th at the Landmark Embarcadero Cinema. As directed by Dominique Monfery, this delightful full-length animation feature focuses on a family that has just inherited a decrepit old house following the death of a beloved relative.
At age 7, Nathaniel has not yet learned how to read. In past summers, his aunt Eleanor would read to him from books of
fairy tales
and other classics of
children's literature . To his utter dismay, all she left him was her collection of books.
When a storm causes substantial damage to Eleanor's decrepit house, the family is at a loss to figure out how they will finance the necessary repairs. Since Nathaniel doesn't seem too interested in the books he has inherited, his parents decide to try selling Eleanor's book collection. But when his mother suggests that Nathaniel choose one book by which he can remember his deceased aunt, the young boy stumbles upon Eleanor's secret.
His late aunt's personal library contains the original editions of every fairy tale. In fact, the books upstairs are inhabited with the characters about whom they were written. Soon Nat is being warned by
Captain Hook ,
Alice ,
Aladdin , and
Pinocchio
about their dire predicament. After Carabosse (the
wicked fairy godmother  from
Sleeping Beauty ) shrinks him down to the size of all the other characters, Nathaniel's rescue mission becomes even more desperate.
Nathaniel (who still has problems sounding out words) must read the magic inscription in Eleanor's library by a certain hour in order to keep all of its literary characters to remain alive. If he fails, they will vanish from the pages of literature forever.
Nathaniel's rescue mission includes all kinds of surprising challenges -- like trying to convince a hungry storybook
ogre
that if he eats Nathaniel, all will be lost. Surprisingly, Nat's obnoxious older sister, Angelica, helps to save the day.
There is a very special charm in the way the animators have captured classic images from children's literature and given them new life. Not only does
Eleanor's Secret
showcase the magic of books, it can easily serve as an inspiration for children to develop a passion for reading.With
Jeanne Moreau
supplying Eleanor's voice, there are some ways in which this delightful film may actually mean more to adults than it will to children. Still, it's a treat for children of all ages. Here's the trailer:
* * * * * * One of the most enjoyable
monologues
performed during the  2010 San Francisco Fringe Festival  was  Phil The Void: The Great Brain Robbery . Created and performed by Los Angeles-based  Phil van Hest  (who has been performing monologues since 1999), this hour-long intellectual juggling act asked audiences to think about how much time they routinely spend on the Internet learning useless bits of trivia. Hest highlight's America's growing capacity to look things up without really learning anything.
Hest's snarky dialogue reveals a strong intellect that finds constant joy in questioning the idiocy of contemporary American culture. By the end of the festival, his act was selling out and keeping audiences in stitches. Here's a sampler:
* * * * * * * * *
Whiz Kids  (which opens this week at the Balboa Theatre for a limited run) is the kind of film my father would have loved. Directed by
Tom Shepard , this documentary follows three 17-year-old high school science students as they try to get accepted by and compete in the annual
Intel Science Talent Search , where more than 2,000 students annuially compete for a total of $1.5 million in prizes. As the filmmaker explains:
"The Science Talent Search was hugely formative for me in high school. It’s probably the reason I went to
Stanford . It certainly gave me enormous confidence (in 1987 I was one of the finalists). There are fewer finalists in the Intel (formerly the
Westinghouse ) Science Talent Search from
California
over the years, and it has been dominated by East Coast high schoolers. You look more deeply and you see there are many more science
magnet schools
on the East Coast. There’s a whole culture now of science research in
Long Island . Families move to Long Island so their kids can go to the schools that will teach them
research . We needed and wanted to spend time in those science hubs. Science is not like a tennis match. Science is not like a
spelling bee . It’s much more process-oriented. At the same time we wanted drama, and we’re certainly in a culture where
American Idol
mania pervades, so we weren’t blind to the fact that using a competition narrative was important in terms of raising the stakes. But we were pretty clear that we didn’t want to make a competition film and that we were trying to invest the  audience in the stories of three young people for whom science has become the driving force in their lives." The students who were chosen all demonstrated three key characteristics:
An insatiable curiosity.
A deeply felt determination to communicate their work to the public.
A passion to make a difference in the world.
Harmain Khan
The daughter of
Ecuadorian
immigrants,
Ana Cisneros
is attends Long Island's Uniondale High School (whose student body is nearly 95% Latino and African American kids). Her fascination with
botany
has helped Ana develop a project in which she is attempting to show how certain plants learn to train their
root systems
not to compete with "friendly" neighbors.
Born in
Pakistan
(and having grown up on
welfare ),
Harmain Khan
is an aspiring
paleontologist
from
Staten Island
whose project involves using
carbon dating
techniques on ancient
crocodile
teeth. Driven to succeed, Harmain is the kind of hyper-inquisitive
nerd
who simply cannot rest until he finds the answers to his questions.
Kaleydra Welcker's
research into
contaminated water
was spurred by her family's proximity to a
DuPont
plant near
Parkersburg, West Virginia . Not only did she discover a simple test for a specific contaminant derived from the process of manufacturing
Teflon
(which had been routinely dumped into the
Ohio River ), the closer she got to achieving a real breakthrough with her home experiments, the more it seemed like the state's regional
science fairs
were in jeopardy.
Kaleydra Welcker
As part of their research, the filmmaking team found some students who were already working in university and government labs (sometimes alongside
Nobel Prize
winning scientists). Others had fewer resources and were working in basement and garage labs. The filmmakers were particularly impressed by the way these students all wanted to use their research in the public arena to make themselves heard as agents of change.
At a time when the United States is lagging behind superpowers like
China ,
India , and
Russia
in scientific achievement, a film like
Whiz Kids
is invaluable for many reasons.
Whiz Kids  proves that scientific talent is hardly restricted to society's upper classes.
Whiz Kids  shows the importance of supportive parents in a child's academic growth.
Whiz Kids
demonstrates the critical role a supportive teacher /mentor
can play in a student's development.
Whiz Kids  reminds audiences what a highly motivated student looks like.
Whiz Kids  clearly outlines some of the obstacles that must be overcome by high school nerds and
geeks
who are misunderstood (or even scorned) by their classmates.
As Shepard notes:
"The film, first and foremost, is a
coming-of-age
story. It’s about teenagers who are wrestling with   adolescence
and are primarily using science to move through that period in their lives. But if it allows a more general audience to plug into science, or engage in science, through the eyes of these vibrant kids, then I think we’ve really helped that cause. I use my background in science all the time to evaluate good and bad
public policy . I honestly think that the measure of our nation, in terms of
technology
and
innovation , needn’t be how many (or how big) our pedigrees. Having the general public be more scientifically literate will go a long way." Whiz Kids
is a delightful documentary that captures the thrill of scientific research -- especially when it is being performed by a young mind -- and shows that there are more valuable goals than merely achieving some kind of  celebrity . Here's the trailer:
Posted by
geoheymont
at
6:58 PM
0
comments
Newer Posts
Older Posts
Home
Subscribe to:
Posts (Atom)
There was an error in this gadget
MAKE A DONATION!
George Heymont
Subscribe Now!
Posts
Atom
Posts
All Comments
Atom
All Comments
Subscribe via email
Enter your email address: Delivered by
FeedBurner
ME AND MY TOWN
About The Author
Tales of Tessi Tura
Miscellaneous Articles
Profiles and Interviews
Alert & Oriented
A Dying Art Form
Dictation Therapy For Doctors
See My Work on Huffington Post
SEARCH THE INTERNET
Enter your search terms
Submit search form
A DESPERATE GRASP ON REALITY
Raw Story
Daily Kos
AmericaBlog
AmericaBlog Gay
Salon.com
Huffington Post
Blog Archive
October 2015
(8)
September 2015
(9)
August 2015
(6)
July 2015
(12)
June 2015
(11)
May 2015
(8)
April 2015
(7)
March 2015
(9)
February 2015
(8)
January 2015
(6)
December 2014
(7)
November 2014
(11)
October 2014
(8)
September 2014
(9)
August 2014
(11)
July 2014
(13)
June 2014
(13)
May 2014
(11)
April 2014
(10)
March 2014
(8)
February 2014
(7)
January 2014
(8)
December 2013
(8)
November 2013
(10)
October 2013
(9)
September 2013
(14)
August 2013
(7)
July 2013
(11)
June 2013
(19)
May 2013
(9)
April 2013
(12)
March 2013
(19)
February 2013
(8)
January 2013
(11)
December 2012
(9)
November 2012
(13)
October 2012
(8)
September 2012
(16)
August 2012
(10)
July 2012
(16)
June 2012
(17)
May 2012
(17)
April 2012
(11)
March 2012
(16)
February 2012
(14)
January 2012
(13)
December 2011
(11)
November 2011
(12)
October 2011
(17)
September 2011
(18)
August 2011
(16)
July 2011
(11)
June 2011
(19)
May 2011
(15)
April 2011
(15)
March 2011
(16)
February 2011
(13)
January 2011
(11)
December 2010
(10)
November 2010
(16)
October 2010
(18)
September 2010
(17)
August 2010
(17)
July 2010
(13)
June 2010
(16)
May 2010
(14)
April 2010
(14)
March 2010
(20)
February 2010
(11)
January 2010
(12)
December 2009
(11)
November 2009
(17)
October 2009
(21)
September 2009
(16)
August 2009
(12)
July 2009
(15)
June 2009
(16)
May 2009
(16)
April 2009
(9)
March 2009
(19)
February 2009
(18)
January 2009
(17)
December 2008
(12)
November 2008
(14)
October 2008
(16)
September 2008
(16)
August 2008
(16)
July 2008
(19)
June 2008
(10)
December 2007
(153)
November 2007
(125)
There was an error in this gadget