MYS: February 2012
MYS
Who's the hottest sister in Philippine showbiz?
Friday, February 24, 2012
Featured Hottie (Jennifer Love-Hewitt)
Jennifer Love-Hewitt
Jennifer Love Hewitt (born February 21, 1979) is an American actress, producer, television director and former singer-songwriter. Hewitt began her acting career as a child by appearing in television commercials and the
Disney Channel
series
Kids Incorporated . She rose to fame in teenage popular culture in her roles in the
Fox
series
Party of Five
as Sarah Reeves Merrin, and films
I Know What You Did Last Summer
and
its sequel
as Julie James.
She starred on the hit CBS television program
Ghost Whisperer
as
Melinda Gordon , for which she won a
Saturn Award
in 2007 and 2008 for Best Actress on Television. She was nominated for a
Golden Globe Award
for her television movie
The Client List . Hewitt has served as a producer on some of her film and television projects. As a singer, Hewitt's most successful single on the
Billboard
Hot 100
is the 1999 release " How Do I Deal ", which peaked at No. 59 She has contributed music to the promotion or soundtracks of acting projects. She is currently a recurring star on
Hot in Cleveland
and will lead the upcoming
Lifetime
television series
The Client List .
Early Life
Hewitt was born in
Waco, Texas , and is the daughter of Patricia Mae (née Shipp), a
speech-language pathologist , and Herbert Daniel Hewitt, a medical technician. Hewitt grew up in
Nolanville, Texas . Hewitt received her middle name after her mother promised her college friend (named "Love") that if she had a daughter, she would name her after her. Her older brother, Todd Hewitt, chose the name "Jennifer" as a homage to a crush he had at the time she was born. After the divorce of her parents, Hewitt and her brother were brought up by her mother.
As a young girl, Hewitt was attracted to music, which led to her first encounters with the entertainment industry. At the age of three, she sang "The Greatest Love of All" at a livestock show. Just a year after that, at a restaurant-dance hall, she entertained an audience with her version of "Help Me Make It Through the Night".By the time she was five, Hewitt already had tap dancing and ballet in her portfolio. At nine, she became a member of the Texas Show Team (which also toured in the
Soviet Union ). At the age of ten, at the suggestion of talent scouts and after gaining the title of "Texas Our Little Miss Talent Winner", she moved to
Los Angeles
with her mother to pursue a career in both acting and singing. In Los Angeles, Hewitt attended Lincoln High School where her classmates included Jonathan Neville, who became a talent scout and recommended Hewitt for her role in
Party of Five .
Career in Acting
After moving to Los Angeles, Hewitt appeared in more than twenty television commercials, including some for
Mattel
toys. Her first break came as a child actor on the
Disney Channel
variety show
Kids Incorporated
(1989–1991), where she was credited as "Love Hewitt". She later appeared in the live action
video
short
Dance! Workout with Barbie
(1992), released by Buena Vista.
She played
Pierce Brosnan 's daughter in a pilot for
NBC
called
Running Wilde
(1993), which featured Brosnan as a reporter for
Auto World
magazine whose stories cover his own wild auto adventures. However, the series was not picked up and the pilot never aired. Hewitt later had roles in several short-lived television series, such as Fox's
Shaky Ground
(1992–1993),
ABC 's
The Byrds of Paradise
(1994), and
McKenna
(1994–1995),and finally became a young star after landing the role of Sarah Reeves Merrin on the popular
Fox
show
Party of Five
(1995–1999). She assumed the role of Sarah after joining that show during its second season and continued it on the short-lived
Party of Five
spin-off,
Time of Your Life
(1999), which she also co-produced.
The show was cancelled after half a season.
Hewitt's first feature film role was in the
independent film
Munchie
(1992). A year later, she achieved her first starring film role in
Little Miss Millions
(1993). She appeared as a choir member in
Sister Act 2: Back in the Habit
(1993). Hewitt became a film star after a lead role in the horror film
I Know What You Did Last Summer
(1997), which enjoyed great box office success ($125,000,000 USD). Hewitt and her co-stars gained popular exposure from the film. She appeared in the sequel
I Still Know What You Did Last Summer
(1998), which, though not as successful as the first film, took in more money on its opening weekend. She starred in the high-school comedy
Can't Hardly Wait
(1998).
Hewitt starred in
The Audrey Hepburn Story
(2000). That same year, she was the "most popular actress on television" due to her
Q-rating
(a measurement of a celebrity's popularity) of 37. Noting her "Q-rating",
Nokia
chose her to become its spokesperson.
She starred alongside
Sigourney Weaver
in the romantic comedy
Heartbreakers
(2001). She appeared in
The Hunchback of Notre Dame II
(2002) as Madellaine, the main protagonist's love interest. Hewitt wrote and performed "I'm Gonna Love You" for the film; the song won "Best Original Song" at the DVD Premiere Awards. She starred alongside
Jackie Chan
in
The Tuxedo
(2002), which received negative reviews from critics but was a box office success. Hewitt appeared in
If Only
(2004) and co-wrote and performed "Love Will Show You Everything" and "Take My Heart Back" for the film's soundtrack. She starred in
Garfield
(2004), which became her highest-grossing film to date ($200,804,534 USD). She reprised her role for the sequel,
Garfield: A Tail of Two Kitties
(2006), which, though not performing as well as its predecessor, achieved a strong box office gross.
Hewitt starred in the television series
Ghost Whisperer
(2005–2010), which ran on
CBS
for five seasons before being canceled by the network in May, 2010. She reunited with her
I Know What You Did Last Summer
co-star,
Freddie Prinze Jr. , in
Delgo
(2008). The film was a massive
box office bomb
($694,782 USD domestically).
After a two-year absence from feature films, Hewitt led the independent drama
Café
(2010) with her then-boyfriend
Jamie Kennedy . She starred in the
Lifetime
film
The Client List
(2010), for which she received a
Golden Globe
nomination. The next year, Hewitt starred in the
Hallmark Hall of Fame
film
The Lost Valentine
(2011).
Hewitt will direct the film
Wait Till Helen Comes
(2012) based on
the novel
by
Mary Downing Hahn . This will be Hewitt's feature film directorial debut (she previously directed three episodes of
Ghost Whisperer ).. She is also set star alongside
Ivan Sergei
and
Joel David Moore
in the
independent
comedy
Jewtopia
(2012) and will star in the television series
The Client List
(2012).
Career in Music
Hewitt was one of the back-up singers in
Martika 's number-one single, " Toy Soldiers " (1989).
At the age of 12,
Meldac
funded the recording of Hewitt's first album,
Love Songs
(1992). The album was released exclusively in Japan, where Hewitt became a pop star. Her explanation for her success in Japan is that the Japanese "love perky music. The poppier the music, the better."
After she joined the cast of
Party of Five , she signed to
Atlantic Records , who rushed her second album,
Let's Go Bang
(1995), out in October. The album and its three singles failed to chart. [61]
Juggling her music career with her acting career, she recorded and released her follow-up album,
Jennifer Love Hewitt
(1996). The album, along with its four singles, failed to chart and Atlantic dropped Hewitt, who did not return to the music scene for three years.
She recorded the single " How Do I Deal " (1999) for the
I Still Know What You Did Last Summer
soundtrack.The song became Hewitt's first charting single, climbing to No. 59 on the
Hot 100
and No. 36 on the
Top 40 Mainstream . It reached No. 8 in Australia. Hewitt also recorded a cover of the
Gloria Gaynor
song " I Will Survive ", which features briefly in the film.
She appeared in the
LFO
video for " Girl on TV " (1999), a song which was written for her by a member of the band. She also appeared in the music video for the
Enrique Iglesias
song, " Hero " (2001), as the singer's love interest.
In 2002, Hewitt signed to
Jive Records
and recorded her
fourth album
with singer, songwriter and producer
Meredith Brooks . The first single, " BareNaked " (2002), became her biggest radio hit to date when it peaked at No. 24 on the
Bubbling Under Hot 100
chart, No. 31 on the
Adult Top 40
and No. 25 on the
Top 40 Mainstream . It climbed to No. 6 in Australia, remaining there for two weeks, and reached No. 33 in
the Netherlands .The song later featured in two episodes of
Ghost Whisperer : "The Vanishing" (Season 1, episode 20) and "The Collector" (Season 2, episode 20). The moderate success of the single propelled the album to peak at No. 37 on the
Billboard
200 and No. 31 in Australia. However, it only remained on the chart for three weeks. The second single, " Can I Go Now " (2003), failed to chart in the US, while managing to peak at No. 8 in the Netherlands and No. 12 in Australia.
Since 2004, Hewitt has remained inactive from the music industry, but the compilation album
Cool with You: The Platinum Collection
(2006) was released in
Asia . Another compilation,
Hey Everybody
(2007), was released in
Brazil . In 2009, reports surfaced that Hewitt was planning on making a
country
album and was in the process of writing material for it.
Jamie Kennedy , Hewitt's boyfriend at the time, said: "I really want to make her a new demo for her music, because I think she should do singing again. She's so good." However, nothing has of yet come of the reports and Hewitt has remained absent from the music scene.
Career in Writing
In November 2009, Hewitt made a foray into comic books. Veteran writer
Scott Lobdell
scripted the 5-issue anthology,
Jennifer Love Hewitt's Music Box
(2009–2010), based on Hewitt's ideas. The series has been published by
IDW Publishing , and has been compiled in a
trade paperback .
Hewitt wrote a book entitled
The Day I Shot Cupid
(2010), in which she speaks of her experiences with love and dating. During a January 2010 interview on
Lopez Tonight , Hewitt said that there was a chapter in the book about " vajazzling " her "vajayjay" (decorating her vulva with
Swarovski
crystals). Hewitt was attributed with popularizing the trend. The book became a
New York Times Bestseller
the week of its release. She announced via her
Twitter
page that she is currently penning a follow-up.
Image
Hewitt was identified as the "#1 reader choice" on the November 1999 and May 2009 covers of
Maxim .
TV Guide
named her the sexiest woman on television in 2008.
Relationships
Hewitt has dated many high-profile celebrities such as
Carson Daly ,
John Mayer
and
Jamie Kennedy .
Hewitt began a relationship with Scottish actor
Ross McCall , whom she met when he made an appearance on
Ghost Whisperer
in late 2005. After two years of dating, they became engaged in late 2007, while vacationing in Hawaii. Paparazzi photographs taken of Hewitt in a bikini at that time led to harsh criticism of her body by bloggers. Hewitt responded: "I've sat by in silence for a long time now about the way women's bodies are constantly scrutinized....What I should be doing is celebrating some of the best days of my life and my engagement to the man of my dreams, instead of having to deal with photographers taking invasive pictures from bad angles." Several celebrities supported her views. During her engagement, Hewitt reportedly said: "I’m getting ready to turn 30 and get married and all those things. This year was my year to try to glow from within and feel better."
People
magazine reported that Hewitt called off their engagement in late 2008.
Stalking
In 2002,
conspiracy theorist
and former
social worker
Diana Napolis was arrested for
stalking
and uttering death threats against Hewitt and
Steven Spielberg
after "verbally confronting" the actress at the
2002 Grammy Awards , and the subsequent day attempting to pose as one of Hewitt's friends to enter the premiere of
The Tuxedo .
Napolis admitted to becoming involved in a shoving match with Hewitt's mother while confronting the actress.Napolis accused Hewitt, along with director Spielberg, of controlling her thoughts through "cybertronic" technology and being part of a
Satanic conspiracy
against her. Napolis was charged with six
felonies
related to the incidents. After a year of
involuntary commitment , Napolis pleaded guilty and was released on bail with a condition that she was barred from contact with both Spielberg and Hewitt.
Done...
Posted by
mhyke
at
7:06 AM
No comments:
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share to Pinterest
Labels:
Featured ,
Hotties ,
Jennifer ,
Love Hewitt
Friday, February 17, 2012
Featured Hottie (Sofia Vergara)
This is just for fun. Every week i'm gonna post a random celebrity that i can think of during the week both local or foreign. Movie Star, TV Star, Supermodel, News anchor or even girls from the sports world, it does'nt matter just as long as she's hot.
And ofcourse i probably don't know a whole lot about the girls that i'll post here, so the informations will mostly be from wiki. SOFIA VERGARA Sofía Margarita Vergara Vergara
(born July 10, 1972) is a
Colombian
actress, comedian, television hostess and model. Vergara had been widely known for co-hosting two TV shows for
Univisión
in the late 1990s. Her TV career opened up for her a window of exposure to North American audiences prior to her first notable acting job in English, the 2003 film
Chasing Papi . Subsequently, she appeared in films, including two
Tyler Perry
films,
Meet the Browns
(2008) and
Madea Goes to Jail
(2009), receiving an
ALMA Award
nomination for the latter. Vergara's success within television, has earned her roles in recent films,
The Smurfs
(2011),
New Year's Eve
(2011),
Happy Feet Two
(2011) and
The Three Stooges
(2012). Vergara currently stars on the critically acclaimed
ABC
series
Modern Family
as
Gloria Delgado-Pritchett , for which she was nominated for two
Golden Globe Awards , two
Primetime Emmy Awards , and three
Screen Actors Guild Awards
for Best Comedy Actress. Vergara earned international fame from the role.
Vergara was discovered by a photographer while walking on a Colombian beach. Soon she was presented with offers in modeling and television work, and she considered accepting them despite being raised both conservatively and religiously. According to an article in the January 2002 issue of
Maxim , Vergara was "apprehensive about doing her first television commercial—until her Catholic schoolteachers gave her their personal permission to take the assignment."Vergara made her first appearance as a performer at the age of seventeen, in a
Pepsi
commercial that was widely broadcast in Latin America. Vergara moved to
Bogotá , Colombia, at the age of 20, where she worked as a
runway
model and on television. From 1995 to 1998, she was co-host with
Fernando Fiore
on
Fuera de serie
("Out of the Ordinary" or "Over-the-Top"), a travel series that sent her to exotic places around the world. It was telecast on the international
Univisión
Spanish-language television network, and it made her a star in the Latin American market. It also gave Vergara television exposure in the United States via the Univisión stations there. She co-hosted the Univisión show
A que no te atreves
("I Dare You"). She appeared as a guest star in the season-four opening of the
HBO
series
Entourage . Besides runway and catalog modeling work, Vergara did independent projects. She was photographed for posters and swimsuit calendars in 1998, 2000, and 2002. Vergara is 1.70 m (5 ft 7 in) tall and has naturally blonde hair(for movies and television, she is sometimes asked to dye it brown to make her look more stereotypically
Latina ). Vergara was under an exclusive television contract with Univision for several years, and after it expired she accepted a role with the
ABC
network in the United States. Vergara appeared on the ABC
situation comedies
Hot Properties
and
The Knights of Prosperity . She currently stars on the ABC sitcom
Modern Family
as
Gloria Delgado-Pritchett , for which she was nominated for the 2010 and 2011
Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Supporting Actress in a Comedy Series
along with a
Golden Globe Award , and three
Screen Actors Guild Awards
nominations. Vergara plays Alicia Oviedo in the television show
Amas de Casa Desesperadas , the Colombian version of
Desperate Housewives . Her character is essentially the Colombian counterpart to the
Mary Alice Young
character in the American show. She also appeared on the ABC drama
Dirty Sexy Money
as Jeremy Darling's love interest. Vergara has made guest appearances in the Mexican
telenovela
Fuego En La Sangre . In 2009, Vergara had a five-week stint on Broadway as "Mama" Morton in the revival of
Chicago . In 2011, Vergara was supposed to star in
The Paperboy , an independent drama directed by
Lee Daniels . Due to delays, shooting was pushed back a week (which conflicted with Vergara shooting Season 3 of
Modern Family ), so she was forced to drop out. In July 2011, she finished filming for the Farrelly Brothers’
The Three Stooges , her first lead role in a film. Vergara said, "I play a mean woman that tries to manipulate the Three Stooges into killing her husband so that she gets all the money."
Done...
Posted by
mhyke
at
8:56 AM
2 comments:
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share to Pinterest
Labels:
Featured ,
Hotties ,
Sofia Vergara
Nursing Board Exam (December 18 - 19, 2011)
After three tries, finally my sister passed the Board Exam. The first try did'nt really worked out well for her since she run away with her boyfriend. She never really got the chance to review. I can say the same for the second try with all the stress of being married.
I'm sure my Dad (RIP) will be so proud of her if he's still around. Hey sis, eventhough you probably won't be able to see this post, since i don't advertise my blog and nobody really knows about it. I just want you to know that i'm so proud of you.
Congatulations!
Done...
Posted by
mhyke
at
8:02 AM
No comments:
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share to Pinterest
Labels:
2011 ,
Board Examination ,
Nursing
Tuesday, February 14, 2012
Lin-Sanity for real!
Ok, i'll join the bandwagon.
On his first NBA game, Lin had 25 points, 5 rebounds and 7 assists against the New Jersey Nets. Everybody thought it was just a fluke since it's the Nets, a team that's having a hard time winning. But when he outplayed Kobe, you know there's something about this kid.
It's been only five games, but there is no longer a question if Jeremy Lin can play in the big League.
I've never been excited to see the Knicks play since the Spreewell and Houston era.
Done...
Posted by
mhyke
at
6:03 AM
No comments:
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share to Pinterest
Labels:
Jeremy Lin ,
Knicks ,
Linsanity ,
New York
Friday, February 10, 2012
50 best TV shows i've ever seen
I've watch a lot of TV over the years. At a young age, i remember having a huge crush on Lynda Carter (TV's Wonder Woman). I'm not sure what year i saw Wonder Woman or if it was just re-runs. But one thing's for sure, Lynda Carter is a total hottie back then.
I don't like animes, so you probably won't see any of them here. Star Trek, Stargate and all other Stars are not gonna be here too. I'm just not into those kind of stuffs.
I'm not saying that i've seen the whole series of the shows in my list, but i had a good time watching them.
So, without further ado, here is my list of 50 tv shows i really enjoyed watching through the years. I only have pictures and a little bit of information on my Top 20. I just felt that it's gonna be a long entry if i do all 50 of them.
1. The Big Bang Theory
The show is centered on five characters: roommates
Leonard Hofstadter
and
Sheldon Cooper , two physicists who work at the
California Institute of Technology
(Caltech);
Penny , a blonde waitress and aspiring actress who lives across the hall; and Leonard and Sheldon's equally geeky and socially awkward friends and co-workers aerospace engineer
Howard Wolowitz
and astrophysicist
Rajesh Koothrappali .
The
geekiness
and intellect of the four guys is contrasted for comic effect with Penny's social skills and common sense.
2. Ghost Whisperer
The series follows the life of
Melinda Gordon
( Jennifer Love Hewitt ), who has the ability to see and communicate with ghosts. While trying to live as normal a life as possible, she is married and owns an antique store. Melinda helps earthbound spirits resolve their problems and cross over into the light, or the spirit world. Her tasks are difficult and at times she struggles with people who push her away and disbelieve her ability. In addition, the ghosts are mysterious and sometimes menacing in the beginning and Melinda must use the clues available to her to understand the spirits' needs and help them.
3. CSI: Miami
Inspired by the series
CSI: Crime Scene Investigation ,
CSI: Miami
follows a South Florida team of forensic investigators/police officers who use both cutting-edge scientific methods and old-fashioned police work to solve crimes. Lieutenant
Horatio Caine
heads the team of investigators while working crimes in the steamy tropical surroundings and cultural crossroads of
Miami . Horatio, his second in command Detective
Calleigh Duquesne , and their team ( Delko ,
Boa Vista ,
Wolfe ,
Tripp ,
Simmons ,
Donner ,
Speedle ,
Woods ,
Price ,
Salas , Loman, and
Cardoza ) probe cases similar to those of their
Las Vegas
counterparts, but Miami CSI's are cops first and scientists second.
4. The King of Queens
Doug
and
Carrie Heffernan
( Kevin James
and
Leah Remini ) share their home at 3121 Aberdeen Street in
Rego Park ,
Queens, New York , with Carrie's oddball dad,
Arthur Spooner
( Jerry Stiller ). Doug, who makes a living as a delivery driver for the International Parcel Service (IPS), spends most of his time at his home with his wife Carrie. Carrie works as a secretary for a law firm in midtown
Manhattan
and later is a secretary for a real estate firm. This is complicated by Arthur, who can be quite a handful, so much so that they hired a
dog walker , Holly ( Nicole Sullivan ), to walk him along with her canine charges in the local park.
5. Criminal Minds
Criminal Minds
is an American
police procedural
television program
that premiered September 22, 2005, on
CBS . The series follows a team of profilers from the
FBI 's
Behavioral Analysis Unit
(BAU) based in
Quantico , Virginia. The BAU is part of the FBI
National Center for the Analysis of Violent Crime .
Criminal Minds
differs from many procedural dramas by focusing on the criminal rather than the crime itself. The show is produced by The Mark Gordon Company in association with
CBS Television Studios
and
ABC Studios .
6. Baywatch
The show starred
David Hasselhoff , of
Knight Rider
fame, as Mitch Buchannon, who was the only mainstay on the show, besides
Michael Newman , for 10 of the 11 seasons.
Baywatch
revolved around the work of a team of lifeguards and their
interpersonal relationships , with plots usually centering on dangers related to beach and other activities pertinent to the California (later Hawaii) beach lifestyle. Everything from
earthquakes
and
shark
attacks to
serial killers
and even
nuclear bombs
served as plot conflicts on the show. Saving people from drowning tended to be one of the most typical situations used in the shows. Thus a trademark of the show was slow motion shots of the lifeguards running, most notably done by
Erika Eleniak ,
Pamela Anderson ,
Yasmine Bleeth ,
Alexandra Paul , and
David Charvet
along with Hasselhoff during the height of the show. Each show would feature one or two
montages , often only superficially related to the plot.
7. Charmed
The series narrative follows the four Halliwell sisters— Prue ,
Piper ,
Phoebe
and, later,
Paige . The first three seasons follow the lives of Prue, Piper, and Phoebe, while the final five seasons replace Prue with Paige as the third Halliwell sister. These sisters are the culmination of
the most powerful line of good witches in history . The sisters, despite being perceived as normal women by the non-supernatural community, are known as The Charmed Ones in the magical community, whose prophesied
destiny
is to protect innocent lives against evil beings, such as
demons
and
warlocks . Each sister possesses unique magical powers that grow and evolve, while they attempt to hold normal working lives in San Francisco. Keeping their paranormal identities separate and secret from their ordinary lives forms part of the series' tension and challenges, with the exposure of magic having far-reaching consequences on relationships, and having resulted in a number of police and
FBI
investigations throughout the series.
8. Bones
The premise of the show is based on an unlikely alliance between
forensic anthropologist
Dr. Temperance "Bones" Brennan
and
FBI
Special Agent
Seeley Booth . Brennan is the central character and team leader of the fictional Jeffersonian Institute Forensic Sciences Department. The show revolves around solving Federal legal cases by examining the human remains of possible murder victims. Dr. Brennan and her team provide scientific expertise and Special Agent Booth provides FBI criminal investigation technique. In addition to the prospective murder cases featured in each episode the series explores the backgrounds and relationships of its recurrent characters. An important ongoing dynamic between Brennan and Booth is their disagreement about science and faith. Brennan argues for science,
evidence ,
atheism . Booth argues for
faith , God, and the unproven. The series is also known for its dark comedic undertones to, in essence, lighten the gravity of the show's intense subject matter.
9. Buffy: The Vampire Slayer
Buffy Summers
(played by
Sarah Michelle Gellar ) is " the Slayer ", one in a long line of young women chosen by
fate
to battle evil forces. This mystic calling endows her with dramatically increased physical strength, as well as endurance, agility, accelerated healing, intuition, and a limited degree of
clairvoyance , usually in the form of
prophetic
dreams.
Buffy receives guidance from her
Watcher ,
Rupert Giles
( Anthony Stewart Head ). Giles, rarely referred to by his first name, is a member of the
Watchers' Council , whose job is to train and assist the Slayers. Giles researches the supernatural creatures that Buffy must face, offering insights into their origins and advice on how to kill them.
Buffy is also helped by friends she meets at Sunnydale High:
Willow Rosenberg
( Alyson Hannigan ) and
Xander Harris
( Nicholas Brendon ). Willow is originally a bookish wallflower; she provides a contrast to Buffy's outgoing personality, but shares the social isolation Buffy suffers after becoming a Slayer. As the series progresses, Willow becomes a more assertive character, a powerful witch, and comes out as a lesbian. In contrast, Xander, with no supernatural skills, provides
comic relief
and a grounded perspective. It is Xander who often provides the heart to the series, and in season six, becomes the hero in place of Buffy who defeats the "Big Bad". Buffy and Willow are the only characters who appear in all 144 episodes; Xander is missing in
only one .
10.The Mentalist
The Mentalist
follows
Patrick Jane , an independent consultant for a fictionalized version of the
California Bureau of Investigation
(CBI) based in
Sacramento ,
California . Although not an officer of the law of any sort, he uses skills from his former career as a successful
psychic medium
(which was a ruse, as he does not believe anyone actually has psychic abilities) to help a team of CBI agents solve various crimes, with the hope of one day bringing
Red John , the
murderer
of his wife, Angela, and daughter, Charlotte, to justice.
Patrick Jane formerly had a lucrative career as a con man, successfully posing as a
psychic medium
and enjoying near- celebrity
status. He appeared on
television
to claim that his paranormal abilities helped the police
profile
a
serial killer
named Red John. Red John, angered by the perceived slight, murdered Jane's wife and young daughter in revenge. Jane subsequently abandoned his job as a psychic and teamed up with the CBI, using his skills to help them solve various crimes. His main focus is on the cases involving Red John or Red John copycats. He admits to faking the supernatural aspects of his skills, often asserting that "there's no such thing as psychics", yet he has finely honed skills in
cold reading ,
hypnotism , and
pickpocketing , as well as powerful observational skill and a deep insight into the human psyche and behavior. These skills come in handy in every episode, but his unorthodox and bizarre techniques to solve crimes sometimes offend the team of agents he works with.
11.How i met your Mother
Set in Manhattan,
How I Met Your Mother
follows the social and romantic lives of
Ted Mosby
( Josh Radnor ) and his friends
Marshall Eriksen
( Jason Segel ),
Robin Scherbatsky
( Cobie Smulders ),
Lily Aldrin
( Alyson Hannigan ) and
Barney Stinson
( Neil Patrick Harris ).
As a
framing device , the main character, Ted,
using voiceover narration by
Bob Saget , in the year 2030 recounts to his son and daughter the events that led to his meeting their mother.
12.CSI: Crime Scene Investigation
The series follows
Las Vegas
criminalists
(identified as "Crime Scene Investigators" working for the
Las Vegas Police Department
instead of the actual title of "Crime Scene
Analysts " and "Las Vegas
Metropolitan
Police Department") as they use physical evidence to solve grisly murders in this unusually graphic drama, which has inspired a host of other cop-show "procedurals". The series mixes deduction, gritty subject matter and character-driven drama. The network later added spin-offs
CSI: Miami
and
CSI: NY .
13.Heroes
Heroes
is an American
science fiction
television
drama
series created by
Tim Kring
that appeared on
NBC
for four seasons from September 25, 2006 through February 8, 2010. The series tells the stories of ordinary people who discover
superhuman abilities , and how these abilities take effect in the characters' lives. The series emulates the aesthetic style and storytelling of
American comic books , using short, multi-episode story arcs that build upon a larger, more encompassing arc. The series was produced by
Tailwind Productions
in association with
Universal Media Studios , and was filmed primarily in
Los Angeles , California.
14.Yes, Dear
Greg Warner (Clark) is a motion picture executive, and Kim Warner (Kelly) is a stay-at-home mother to Sam and, later, Emily. Kim's sister, Christine Hughes (Snyder), and Christine's husband, Jimmy Hughes (O'Malley), along with their two sons, Dominic ( Joel Homan ) and Logan ( Brendon Baerg ), live in the Warners'
guest house , where the Hughes family's easygoing approach to life in general contrasts with Greg's uptight and fussy demeanor. The plots revolve around child rearing, work (especially after Greg gets Jimmy a job as the movie studio's security guard), and sex, and often involve various combinations of the four adults plotting against each other.
Late in the fifth season, the Hughes family finally earns enough money to move out of the guest house and buy the house next door. Greg quits his job following his company's takeover and the firing of his boss, the overbearing but decent Mr. Savitsky.
Greg is unable to find work, and toxic mold is discovered in the Warners' home, so they are forced to move in with the Hughes family early in the sixth season. Savitsky later joins a Japanese movie studio and rehires Greg, enabling the Warners to move back into their home. In the final scene of the series, an earthquake strikes Los Angeles, and, while the Warners' house receives only minimal damage, the Hughes family is not so lucky, and they show up at the Warners' front door asking if the guest house is still available.
15.Beverly Hills 90210
The original premise of the show was based on the adjustment and culture shock that twins Brandon (played by
Jason Priestley ) and Brenda Walsh (played by
Shannen Doherty ) experienced when they and their parents, Jim (played by
James Eckhouse ) and Cindy (played by
Carol Potter ) moved from
Minneapolis ,
Minnesota
to Beverly Hills. In addition to chronicling the friendships and romantic relationships of a close-knit group of teenagers, the show also addressed numerous topical issues including
date rape ,
alcoholism ,
domestic violence ,
gay rights ,
anti-Semitism ,
gay parenting ,
drug abuse ,
teenage suicide ,
AIDS ,
teenage pregnancy ,
bulimia
and
abortion .
16.That 70's show
The main teenage cast members were
Topher Grace ,
Mila Kunis ,
Ashton Kutcher ,
Danny Masterson ,
Laura Prepon , and
Wilmer Valderrama . The main adult cast members were
Debra Jo Rupp ,
Kurtwood Smith ,
Don Stark
and, during the first three seasons,
Tanya Roberts .
The show addressed social issues of the 1970s such as
feminism ,
sexual
attitudes, generational conflict, the economic hardships of the
1970s recession , mistrust of the
American government
by
blue-collar workers , and teenage
drug use . The series also highlighted developments in the entertainment industry, including the television
remote
("the clicker"), the
video game
Pong , and Eric's obsession with
Star Wars .
17.Wonder Woman
Wonder Woman is a warrior Princess of the
Amazons
(based on the
Amazons
of
Greek mythology ) and was created by Marston, an American, as a "distinctly feminist role model whose mission was to bring the Amazon ideals of love, peace, and
sexual equality
to a world torn by the hatred of men."
[2]
Known in her homeland as
Diana of
Themyscira , her powers include
superhuman strength , flight (even though the original Wonder Woman did not have this ability), super-speed, super-stamina, and super-agility. She is highly proficient in hand-to-hand combat and in the art of tactical warfare. She also possesses animal-like cunning skills and a natural rapport with animals, which has been presented as an actual ability to communicate with the animal kingdom. She uses her
Lasso of Truth , which forces those bound by it to tell the truth, a pair of
indestructible bracelets , a tiara which serves as a projectile, and, in some stories, an
invisible airplane .
18.Two and a Half Men
The series revolves around the life of two Harper brothers:
Charlie
and
Alan
and his son Jake. Charlie is a bachelor who makes his money writing jingles for a living and leads a
hedonistic
lifestyle. When Alan's wife
Judith
decides to divorce him, Alan moves into Charlie's beach house, with ten-year-old Jake periodically coming to stay with his father and Charlie. Charlie's house is cleaned by
Berta , a sharp-tongued woman who initially resists the change to the household but comes to grudgingly accept it.
19.The Hills
The Hills
follows the lives of several women in
Los Angeles . The series' four original starring members are
Lauren Conrad ,
Audrina Patridge ,
Whitney Port , and
Heidi Montag ;
Kristin Cavallari ,
Stephanie Pratt , and
Lo Bosworth
subsequently become focal points following the departures of Port, Conrad, and Montag. Despite being billed and formatted as a reality series, scripting was used for production purposes.
20.Dawson's Creek
The series follows four friends, Dawson Leery, Joey Potter, Jen Lindley, and Pacey Witter, living in a small fictional seaside town called Capeside,
Massachusetts
who were in the early part of their
sophomore
and first year of high school when the series began. The lead character, Dawson Leery, mirrors Williamson's interests and background.
21.Army Wives
22.Person of Interest
23.Sabrina, The Teenage Witch
24.CSI: New York
25.The Good Wife
26.The Incredible Hulk
27.Still Standing
28.Leverage
29.One Tree Hill
30.Psych
31.Rizzoli and Isles
32.Warehouse 13
33.Lie to me
34.Melrose Place
35.The George Lopez Show
36.Numbers
37.Rules of Engagement
38.Scrubs
39.House, M.D
40.Gossip Girl
41.Law and Order
42.NCIS
43.Desperate Housewives
44.Pretty little liars
45.Lost
46.Grounded for Life
47.Will and Grace
48.Drake and Josh
49.The Office
50.Friends
I have'nt seen a single episode of these. A few seasons of True Blood, Dexter and Supernatural is in my Hard drive, i just don't have the time to watch them. Some on the list are already canceLled, i'm thinking of buying Tru Calling and Veronica Mars on DVD.
Untill then, they won't be in my list.
I will call this my
wishlist .
Supernatural
True Blood
Dexter
Tru Calling
Chuck
Veronica Mars
The Vampire Diaries
Prison Break
JAG
Homeland
Done...
Posted by
mhyke
at
8:26 AM
1 comment:
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share to Pinterest
Labels:
50 ,
Top ,
TV Shows
Newer Posts
Older Posts
Home
Subscribe to:
Posts (Atom)
Followers
About Me
mhyke
Simple and Cool!
View my complete profile
Blog Archive
►
2014
(1)
►
September
(1)
►
2013
(1)
►
April
(1)
▼
2012
(43)
►
June
(7)
►
May
(3)
►
April
(6)
►
March
(9)
▼
February
(5)
Featured Hottie (Jennifer Love-Hewitt)
Featured Hottie (Sofia Vergara)
Nursing Board Exam (December 18 - 19, 2011)
Lin-Sanity for real!
50 best TV shows i've ever seen
►
January
(13)
►
2011
(36)
►
December
(8)
►
November
(2)
►
October
(10)
►
September
(9)
►
August
(2)
►
July
(3)
►
June
(2)
Simple template. Powered by
Blogger .