New Page 1
Rhythm and
blues ( R&B ) is the name given to a wide-ranging
genre
of
popular music
first created by
African Americans
in the late 1940s and early 1950s. The term was originally used by record
companies to refer to recordings bought predominantly by African Americans, at a
time when "urban, rocking,
jazz
based music with a heavy, insistent beat" was becoming more popular.  The term
has then had a number of shifts in meaning. Starting in the 1960s, after this
style of music contributed to the development of rock and roll, the term R&B
became used - predominantly by Caucasian groups — to refer to music styles that
developed from and incorporated electric blues, as well as gospel and soul
music. By the 1970s, the term rhythm and blues was being used as a blanket term
to describe soul and funk. Since the 1990s, the term Contemporary R&B is now
mainly used to refer to a modern version of soul and funk-influenced pop music.
A
COUPLE FAVORITES
Lu ther Vandross
born April 20, 1951 was an
American
R&B
singer, songwriter , and
record producer .  He
was born on the
Lower East Side
of
Manhattan
in
New York City , where he
began playing the piano at the age of three.  During his career, Vandross sold
over twenty-five million albums and won eight
Grammy Awards .   Luther Vandross came on the music scene in 1975, singing back-up for
David Bowie .  He
released his own album,
"Never Too Much,"
in 1981, and it instantly went
to the top of the R&B charts. Each of his next five albums sold more than a
million copies, and Vandross won his first
Grammy
Award in 1990,
for best R&B male vocal performance. He went on to record many more hit albums,
and won several more Grammys.  In April, 2003, Vandross suffered a stroke that
left him in a coma for almost two months. In June, he came out of the coma.
Never having fully recovered from the stroke, and suffering from diabetes and
high blood pressure, Vandross died in July 2005.
Whitney Houston born August 9, 1963
was one of the biggest female pop music stars of the 1980s and 1990s, thanks to
hit singles like
"Saving All My Love For You"
and
"I Wanna Dance With
Somebody."
In 1985 she released her first album,
Whitney Houston , a
Grammy-winner and, her second album, 1987's
Whitney , debuted at #1 on the
charts. By the end of the '80s she had a many number one hits and was one of
MTV's biggest stars. Throughout the 1990s Houston continued to sell millions of
records.  Houston also tried acting, and landed lead roles in
The Bodyguard
(1992) and
The Preacher's Wife
(1996).  Beyond those, she stared in a few
more films.  She married singer Bobby Brown in 1992; their stormy relationship
seemed to lead to a decline in her career in the early 2000s, and in September
of 2006 Houston filed for divorce. Houston's recent record releases have sold
modestly, but her production company has had box office success with the films
The Princess Diaries
(2001) and the Disney TV movie
The Cheetah Girls
(2003).  Houston was the subject of a widespread September 2001 rumor that she
had died in result of a drug overdose.  Even though rumors like this are
mentioned, Whitney Houston will always be one of biggest female stars ever.
There are many R&B artist that
have developed some of the most beautiful music.
Aaliyah
Alicia Keys
Beyonce
H-Town
Brian
Mcknight
Keyshia Cole
Lyfe Jennings
Mary J.
Blige
Chris Brown
Tank
Giving
thanks to these websites:
http://www.answers.com/topic/luther-vandross
http://www.answers.com/topic/whitney-houston
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rhythm_and_blues