Alins alba.!!
Alins alba.!!
“Quite simply put,
is not only the best tumblr on the ‘net, but the best blog that will ever be on the net. What is especially uncanny about this blog is that everything that I think is important is tumblr about here, in language that seems to precisely reflect my own thinking. It’s like I am reading my own mind every time I compose a post. If you are me, I’m sure you will feel the same way. In the unlikely event that you are not me, there is still a chance that you will enjoy my blog. Who knows? (And Who isn’t telling, so you’d better check it out yourself.) ”I will live as a writer who keeps alive the music of the language, holds head and heart together in the words, and writes in hope and passion that one person will be better because he or she reads what I wrote.
1st Feb 2011
Feshionista
What You Want, for Less
Handbags are a girls best friend, or is that diamonds? Either way, even as a runner up, handbags are a
must
in every girls closet. What’s even more coveted?
Designer
handbags. Louis Vuitton, Chanel, Gucci, Balenciaga, you name it! You know the names, but sometimes these handbags are
way
out of our price range. For the fashion-forward female who has been hit
hard by the recession, or even if you’re just trying to save a few
pennies – I may have just found your new favorite site.
Introducing: Luxe Designer Handbags. The name is just as straight
forward as their new e-commerce site. Based out of Hallandale, Florida,
this online shop offers new and pre-owned, 100% authentic designer
handbags. Not only can you shop by price or designer, but they also
offer an interactive blog and explain their authenticity process. But
enough with the details, here are some of our favorite picks!
An Oversized Gucci Clutch
Every girl loves an oversized clutch, especially by Gucci. With a
simple click on that <$399 option on the main page, I was taken to
this
pre-owned vintage clutch . The best part? The price. Since this clutch qualifies for free shipping, your grand total is a whopping $200.
Neverfull by Louis Vuitton
Next, we were looking for an option that we could throw all of our
daily necessities. The most classic option we could think of, the
Neverfull by Louis Vuitton
was available! This canvas tote is an essential piece for every girl.
Not only can you use its drawstrings to downsize, but taking cue from
its name, the bag is almost impossible to fill up! Check this timeless
tote out for $615.
Intercciato Nappa Ball Hobo by Bottega Veneta
Our last pick is quite the luxury. A bag we’ve been daydreaming over for years, the
Intrecciato Nappa ball hobo by Bottega Veneta .
With its brown, detailed weaving and super soft leather, who doesn’t
love this piece? This pre-owned and like-new hobo goes with absolutely
everything and rings in at just under a hefty grand.
What bag is on your list from Luxe Designer Handbags? With price-match and authenticity guaranteed, how could you go wrong?
The Short-Sleeved Denim Shirt
Originally from Italy, Valentina C. lives in a three-bedroom
apartment on Miami Beach; the third bedroom of which has been
transformed into an over-sized walk-in closet. An active woman by day
with a glamorous lifestyle by night, I figured she’d pull some designer
frock from said closet when I asked for the “ghost” in her closet.
Instead, she showed me a simple short-sleeved denim shirt from Gucci.
“I bought it last year, but it is very dear to me.“ She explained.
"I’ve worn it on different occasions, but I am sure a new pair of eyes
will help me discover more ways to wear it.”
Lunch @ Gigi
A
cropped navy blazer in light wool with gold buttons, terry cloth
shorts, clogs, aviators and a Panama hat will suit her well as she goes
“past the bridge,” as she likes to say when she leaves the beach for
midtown. This casually chic outfit is perfect for the casually chic
noodle bar on Miami Avenue.
A Stroll Down Lincoln Road
Yes, Valentina is one of those stylish women you see strolling down
Lincoln road with her dog’s leash in one hand and a shopping bag in the
other. This look would be perfect for it – especially on the cooler
evenings we’ve been having lately. Pair the denim top with a distressed
denim skirt, toss on a a brown suede blazer, a thick brown leather belt
with brass buckle and slip on a pair of relaxed mid-calf boots for the
perfect relaxed look.
Friend’s Birthday Dinner @ Casa Tuna
A birthday dinner is the perfect time to break out a full black
taffeta skirt. Luckily, it looks fab with the Gucci demin top. This
skirt has an unfinished hem, which gives it a ruffled look at the
bottom, and pockets. Pair it with navy blue satin be-jeweled sandals, a
black clutch, and a chunky beaded necklace.
Up Next:
A long, ruffled skirt in organic cotton.
31st Jan 2011
Celebrities
31st Jan 2011
ImageBam
31st Jan 2011
She is the best!
31st Jan 2011
Vs Mekup
Crave colour,Crave Glamour,Crave the sportlight,New Vs love Me Wild Mekup
27 must-haves for eyes, lips and face. Domestic and imported. 1.25 oz. A $125 value.
Includes:
12 eye shadows
6 lip glosses
3 brushes
2 blushes
1 eye liner
1 lip balm
1 bronzer
1 highlighter
55 must-haves for eyes, lips and face. Domestic and imported. 1.96 oz. A $143 value.
Includes:
30 silky eye shadows
5 lip glosses
5 perfect lipsticks
4 blushes
1 luminous powder
1 translucent powder
1 bronzer
1 mascara
1 lip liner
1 eye liner
5 brushes
Love me wild. Crave color.  Rich, creamy formula drenches lips in full-coverage color and sheen. Domestic. .12 oz.
VS TIP: For added longevity, lightly line and color in lips with lip liner before applying. Top with gloss for pretty polish .
Pump up the volume. Extreme volume brush combines with a conditioning
formula to coat every lash in clump-free, eye-opening color for a false
lash effect without all the work. Defines and lengthens while creating
voluminous lashes in an instant. Imported. .22 oz.
VS TIP: For the look of added volume, apply an extra coat to the outer corners
Reveal skin perfection. Light-imparting pearls help this weightless
foundation with protective, antioxidant vitamins A and E and soothing
Chamomile seamlessly blend into skin for a fresh, dewy finish. Domestic.
Features & Benefits: Effortlessly evens out imperfections with
light-diffusing pigments that help fade away fine lines, instantly
imparting radiant, healthy looking skin.
Best For: Sheer to medium coverage with a fresh, flawless finish. .8 oz.
Backstage beauty solutions: The secrets behind every flawless close-up
and dazzling turn on the runway. Make the magic yours with new VS PRO.
Inspired by the artistry and ingenuity of the world’s best makeup
artists, VS PRO translates professional tricks and techniques into
easy-to-use products anyone can master. This collection of seven key
items takes any makeup application from basic to professional. Before our pros apply any makeup, they use primer to perfect the skin.
This weightless, silicone-based gel-cream creates an exceptionally
smooth, velvety surface for a flawless foundation application that
lasts. Domestic. .84 oz.
Act natural. Lightweight, hydrating formula has it all: sheer coverage,
antioxidants and SPF protection. Creates the look of beautifully
balanced, perfected skin. Domestic.
31st Jan 2011
Shoes
Date Night Heels
Sleek, sexy and straight-up twisted. Hidden platform. Imported polyurethane. 4 ½" heel with ¾" platform.
Stand out at every gathering. Imported.
5" heel with 1" platform.
Delicate lace overlay makes this hot heel a high fashion must-have. Imported satin/lace. 4 ½" heel.
Stand out in these slingback sparklers. Imported satin.
5 ¼" heel with 1 ½" platform.
Imported suede. 5 ½" heel.
Imported polyurethane. 5" heel with 1" platform.
Sexy, all tied up. Imported suede/silk.
5 ½" heel with 1 ½" platform.
31st Jan 2011
Very Sexy® Fragrance
Eau de Parfum Ornament
Eau de Parfum Ornament Start the ultimate seduction in this sultry
blend of sensual vanilla orchid, sparkling clementine and juicy
blackberry. Includes: Eau de Parfum, .25 oz. Imported and Domestic.
$10
#264-964
Start the ultimate seduction. The same Very Sexy® scent just got
sexier with a provocative new look. A sultry blend of sensual vanilla
orchid, sparkling clementine and juicy blackberry. Domestic. Fragrance type: floral oriental Top notes: capucine, pepper, cactus flower, clementine Middle notes: camellia, hydrangea, mimosa, vanilla orchid Low notes: musk, soft woods, blackberry, white amber
3.4 oz., 											$59
2.5 oz., 											$49
1.0 oz., 											$37
31st Jan 2011
thoughhhts?
Vogue covers
Beach Bunny
Normal Image Size (Best Fit) -
Models’ personal style
Izabel Goulart
Fashion hall of shame
Malgosia
Bela
First Name: Malgosia
Last Name: Bela
Nationality: Polish
Hair Color: Brown
Eye Color: Green
Date of Birth: 1977
Place of Birth: Krackow, Poland
Height: 5'9.5" ; 177cm
Measurements: (US) 34-23-34 ; (EU) 86.5-58.5-86.5
Dress Size: (US) 6 ; (EU) 36
Shoe Size: (US) 9 ; (EU) 41
Tetyana Piskun
Born: 15 November
Where: Ukraine
Height: 178 cm
Bust: 81 cm
Waist: 60 cm
Hips: 89 cm
Voguegirl
31st Jan 2011
Celebrities
Beyonce
31st Jan 2011
0 plays
Kesha
Kesha - Animal New Music 2010
Animal
Kesha - Animal New Music 2010
31st Jan 2011
Garden Desingn
Planting
Garden furniture
Renaissance and Formal gardens
Rock garden
Residential gardens
Contemporary garden
31st Jan 2011
Crystal Palace, London
Crystal Palace
is a residential area in
south
London , England named from the former local landmark,
The Crystal Palace ,
which occupied the area from 1854 to 1936. The area is located approximately 8 miles south east of
Charing Cross ,
and offers impressive views over the capital. An
electoral ward
named Crystal Palace and
Crystal Palace Park
are entirely contained within the
London Borough of Bromley . However, the wider area has no defined boundaries and straddles the convergence of five London boroughs and three
postal districts . It is contiguous with
Anerley ,
Dulwich Wood ,
Gipsy Hill ,
Penge ,
South Norwood ,
Sydenham
and
Upper Norwood . It includes one of the
highest points in London , 367 feet (112 m) at OS map reference TQ337707.Two television transmitter
masts
make the district a landmark location, visible from many parts of the London area.
Crystal Palace Park
Tidal Lake Crystal Palace Park
Iguanodon Crystal Palace
Cp mast
31st Jan 2011
“Intelligence Quotes”
—
A woman has to be intelligent, have charm, a sense of humor, and be kind. It’s the same qualities I require from a man.
Catherine Deneuve
31st Jan 2011
“Marilyn Monroe”
—
“I’m selfish, impatient and a little insecure. I make mistakes, I am
out of control and at times hard to handle. But if you can’t handle me
at my worst, then you sure as hell don’t deserve me at my best.”
31st Jan 2011
Paris Hilton
Paris Whitney Hilton
(born February 17, 1981) is an American socialite,
heiress ,
media personality ,
model ,
singer ,
author ,
fashion designer
and
actress . She is a great-granddaughter of
Conrad Hilton
(founder of
Hilton Hotels ). Hilton is known for her controversial appearance in a
sex tape
in 2003, and appearance on the television series
The Simple Life
alongside fellow socialite and childhood best friend
Nicole Richie . She is also known for her 2004
tongue-in-cheek
autobiography, several minor film roles (most notably her role in the horror film
House of Wax
in 2005), her 2006 music album
Paris , and her work in modeling.
As a result of several legal incidents, Hilton served a widely publicized sentence in a
Los Angeles County jail
in 2007. She is an example of the modern phenomenon of the ’ celebutante ’,
the celebrity who rises to fame not because of their talent or work but
because of their inherited wealth and controversial lifestyle.
Early life
Hilton was born in
New York City, New York , to
Kathy
(née Avanzino), a socialite and actress, and
Richard Hilton ,
a businessman. She is the oldest of four children: she has one sister,
Nicholai Olivia “Nicky” Hilton
(b. 1983) and two brothers, Barron Nicholas Hilton II (b. 1989) and
Conrad Hughes Hilton III (b. 1994). Hilton is of Norwegian, German,
English, Irish, and Italian ancestry. She is a niece of two
child stars
of the 1970s,
Kim
and
Kyle Richards .
Hilton moved between several exclusive homes in her youth, including a suite in the
Waldorf-Astoria Hotel
in
Manhattan ,
Beverly Hills ,
and
the Hamptons . As a child she was good friends with other socialites, including
Nicole Richie
and
Kim Kardashian .
She attended her freshman year of high school at the
Marywood-Palm Valley School
in
Rancho Mirage , California followed by a short time at
Convent of the Sacred Heart
(which she attended with
Lady Gaga )
and the
Dwight School
in New York for her sophomore and junior years. She was then transferred to the
Canterbury Boarding Schoo l , in
New Milford, Connecticut
where she was a member of the
ice hockey
team.
In February 1999, she was expelled for violating school rules
and later earned her        GED .
In December 2007, Hilton’s grandfather
Barron Hilton
pledged 97 percent of his estate to a charitable organization founded by his father, the
Conrad N. Hilton Foundation .
An immediate pledge of $1.2 billion was made, with a further
$1.1 billion due after his death. He cited his father’s actions as the
motivation for his pledge. According to reports, the potential
inheritance of his grandchildren is sharply diminished.
Career
2001–present: As a model
2003–present: As an actress
2004–present: As a singer
2004–06: As an author
Celebrity status
She denied proclaiming herself as the “iconic blonde of the decade” such as
Diana, Princess of Wales , and
Marilyn Monroe
in the May 2007 issue of
Harper’s Bazaar .
She appeared in the 2007
Guinness World Records
as the world’s “Most Overrated Celebrity”.
In a poll conducted by the
Associated Press
and
AOL ,
Hilton was voted the second “Worst Celebrity Role Model of 2006”, behind
Britney Spears . Critics suggest that Hilton epitomizes the title of
famous for being famous ;
echoing that sentiment, the
Associated Press
conducted what they called an experiment in February 2007, trying not to report on Hilton for a whole week.
Paris Hilton has often appeared in FHM’s 100 Sexiest Women poll, ranking at #34 in 2006, #23 in 2005 and #59 in 2004.
Convention
Born
Paris Whitney Hilton
February 17, 1981
( 1981-02-17 )
(age 29)
New York City, New York , U.S.
Occupation
Socialite, model, actress, singer, songwriter, fashion designer
Years active
1993, 2000–present
Height
5 ft 8 in (1.73 m)
Weight
115 lb (52 kg; 8.2 st)
Parents
Richard Howard Hilton
Kathy Hilton
Newer
4
5
6
7
8
Older
Search
Navigate
Home
Ask
Submit
Random
Mobile
RSS
Archive
Text, photographs, quotes, links, conversations, audio and visual material preserved for future reference.
Likes
A handpicked medley of inspirations, musings, obsessions and things of general interest.
THE EAMES THEME
designed by
THE MINIMALIST
| Powered by
Tumblr