pAoLa'S MuSiiC
skip to main
|
skip to sidebar
Friday, April 17, 2009
*
,, WeLcOmE
tO
My
bLoG ,, *
It iS VeRy kOoL
Posted by
Paola Gómez
at
7:29 PM
No comments:
Avril Lavigne
Avril Lavigne Whibley [2]
(born September 27, 1984), better known by her
birth name
Avril Lavigne , is a Canadian
singer-songwriter ,
fashion designer , and
actress . Lavigne has sold more than 30 million copies of album worldwide. [3]
She is currently one of the top-selling artists releasing albums in the United States, with over 10.25 million copies certified by the
Recording Industry Association of America . [4] Lavigne broke into the recording industry with her debut album,
Let Go , released in 2002. As of 2009, over 16 million copies were sold worldwide, more than 6 million of which were sold in the United States. Her second and third album,
Under My Skin
and
The Best Damn Thing , reached number one in the United States. Lavigne has scored six number-one singles worldwide, including " Complicated ", " Sk8er Boi ", " I'm With You ", " My Happy Ending " and " Girlfriend ". Early years Avril Ramona Lavigne was born to a
French -born father, John, and a
Franco-Ontarian
mother, Judy, in
Belleville, Ontario , Canada on September 27, 1984. Her father named her Avril after the month "April" in French. She has an older brother, Matthew, and a younger sister, Michelle.Lavigne's mother was the first to spot young Lavigne's talent. At the age of two, Lavigne began singing church songs along with her mother. The family moved to
Napanee, Ontario , when Lavigne was five years old. In 1998, Lavigne won a competition to sing with fellow Canadian singer
Shania Twain
on her first major concert tour. She appeared alongside Twain at her concert in
Ottawa , appearing on stage to sing " What Made You Say That ". She was discovered by her first professional manager, Cliff Fabri, while singing
country
covers at a
Chapters
bookstore in
Kingston ,
Ontario . [5]
During a performance with the Lennox Community Theatre, Lavigne was spotted by local
folk singer
Steve Medd, who invited her to contribute vocals on his song, "Touch the Sky", for his 1999 album, Quinte Spirit. She also sang on "Temple of Life" and "Two Rivers" for his follow up 2000 album, My Window to You. Music career In November 2000, Lavigne was signed by Ken Krongard, an
A&R
representative to
Arista Records , who invited the head of Arista,
Antonio "L.A." Reid , to hear her sing at the
Manhattan
studio of producer
Peter Zizzo . Signed as a singer, Lavigne was pitched with songs written by others. However, she dismissed them, insisting she wanted to write herself. For a year, Lavigne and Arista had conflicts in musical direction. She collaborated with the production team
The Matrix , and the ensuing album is called
Let Go .
Posted by
Paola Gómez
at
5:42 PM
No comments:
Thursday, April 16, 2009
LA OREJA DE VAN GOGH La Oreja de Van Gogh ( English :
Van Gogh 's Ear) is a
Latin Grammy
winning and
Grammy
nominated
Spanish
pop
band from
Donostia-San Sebastian . The name of the band references the famous
post-impressionist
painter
Vincent van Gogh
who cut off the lobe of his own ear. Their characteristically poetic songs (both lyrics and music) are written mainly by Pablo Benegas in collaboration with Xabi San Martín. The themes of their songs usually include love, friendship, and whatever can occur in relationships. Since their debut, they have sold more than 6 million copies worldwide of their four albums. In November 2007, lead singer
Amaia Montero
announced that she would be leaving the group to begin a solo career. [1]
Her replacement,
Leire Martínez , was announced in July 2008, along with the band's first single " El Último Vals " from their album titled
A las cinco en el Astoria
which was released on September 2 2008. Leire was discovered on the Spanish reality show
Factor X . History
With Amaia Montero "Los Sin Nombre" (The Nameless Ones) was the original name of the band when it was formed by the four men of the group while in college : Xabi San Martín, Pablo Benegas, Álva ro Fuentes and Haritz Garde. They recorded some songs but were not edited. They knew
Amaia Montero
and, after listening to her sing "Nothing Compares 2 U" ( Sinéad O'Connor ), she joined the group. They won a Rock Festival in
San Sebastián
under the name of La Oreja de Van Gogh and in 1998 recorded their first album
Dile al sol
(Tell it to the sun). They were successful and rose to fame in 2000 with the publication of
El viaje de Copperpot
(Copperpot's Journey). Three years later, they published
Lo que te conté mientras te hacías la dormida
(What I told you while you were pretending to be asleep) and in 2006, the published
Guapa
(Pretty). With Leire Martínez In 2007, Amaia Montero left the group and Xabi, Pablo, Álvaro and Haritz made a casting looking for a new vocalist. In July 2008 they presented Leire Martínez as the new vocalist and the new song "El Último Vals" as the first single of their new album
A las cinco en el Astoria
(At five o'clock in Astoria).
Posted by
Paola Gómez
at
8:32 PM
No comments:
EVANESCENCE Evanescence is an American
rock
band founded in
Little Rock, Arkansas
in 1995 by singer/pianist
Amy Lee
and guitarist
Ben Moody . [1] [2] After recording two private
EPs
and a demo CD named
Origin , with the help of Bigwig Enterprises in 2000, the band released their first full-length album,
Fallen , on
Wind-up Records
in 2003. Fallen sold more than 15 million copies worldwide and helped the band win two
Grammy Awards . [3]
A year later, Evanescence released their first
live album ,
Anywhere but Home , which sold more than one million copies worldwide. In 2006, the band released their second studio album,
The Open Door , which sold more than four million copies. The band has suffered several line-up changes, including co-founder Moody leaving mid-tour in 2003, bassist
Will Boyd
in mid-2006, followed by guitarist
John LeCompt
and drummer
Rocky Gray
in 2007. The later two of the changes ultimately led the band to be on hiatus with only temporary replacements sought in order for the band to finish touring. History Evanescence was founded by singer, pianist and songwriter Amy Lee and former lead guitarist and songwriter Ben Moody. The two met in 1994 at a youth camp in Little Rock, where Moody heard Lee playing " I'd Do Anything for Love (But I Won't Do That) " by
Meat Loaf
on the
piano . [4]
Their first songs together were "Solitude" and "Give Unto Me", both written by Lee, and "Understanding" and " My Immortal ", both written by Moody. The songs were edited by both artists, and they shared equal credit. Two of Lee and Moody's songs found playtime on local radio stations, raising local awareness of the group and demand for a concert. The band eventually appeared live, and became one of the most popular acts in the area. After experimenting with band names, such as Childish Intentions and Stricken, they decided on Evanescence, which means "disappearance" or "fading away" (from the word
evanesce , which means "to disappear"). Lee loved the name because "it is mysterious and dark, and places a picture in the listeners' mind." Their first full-length demo CD, Origin (released in 2000), is relatively unknown. The band also released two EPs. The first is the self-titled
Evanescence EP
(1998), of which about 100 copies were made and distributed at the band's early live performances. The second is the
Sound Asleep EP , also known as the Whisper EP (1999), which was limited to 50 copies. Origin and the EPs contain demo versions of some of the songs on their debut album, Fallen. For example, the recording of "My Immortal", found on Fallen, can also be found on Origin, minus a handful of additional string accompaniments. Only 2,500 copies of this record were produced; in response, Lee and Moody encouraged fans to download the band's older songs from the Internet.
Posted by
Paola Gómez
at
8:09 PM
No comments:
Saturday, March 21, 2009
MY CHEMICAL ROMANCE My Chemical Romance (commonly abbreviated to MCR) is an American rock band formed in 2001 in
Jersey City, New Jersey . The band consists of five members that are
Gerard Way , Mikey Way,
Frank Iero , Ray Toro and Bob Bryar. Shortly after forming, the band signed to
Eyeball Records
and released their debut album
I Brought You My Bullets, You Brought Me Your Love
in 2002. They signed with
Re prise Records
the next year and released their major label debut
Three Cheers for Sweet Revenge
in 2004, the album was a commercial success selling over one million copies. The band followed this success with 2006's
The Black Parade , featuring their hit singles, " Welcome to the Black Parade ", " Famous Last Words ", " I Don't Love You ", and " Teenagers ". The band also filmed
a live DVD
in
Mexico City , which was released on July 1, 2008. Background Early career (2001–2002) The band was formed by frontman
Gerard Way
and drummer Matt Pelissier approximately one week after the
September 11 attacks . Witnessing the planes crash into the
World Trade Center
influenced Way's life to the extent that he decided to start a band.Way wrote the song "Skylines and Turnstiles" to express his feelings about September 11th. Shortly thereafter, Ray Toro was recruited because at the time Way couldn't sing and play the guitar at the same time. The first recording sessions were done in Pelisier's attic, where the songs " Our Lady of Sorrows " (formerly called "Bring More Knives") and "Cubicles" were recorded. Frank Iero revealed that the band finished the lyrics to "Best Day Ever" moments before they arrived at the studio to begin recording. The band refers to those sessions as The Attic Demos. Mikey Way, the younger brother of Gerard, loved the demo so much that he decided to join the band after dropping out of college. My Chemical Romance signed with
Eyeball Records , where
Pencey Prep
and
Thursday
recorded. While with
Eyeball Records
the band met
Frank Iero , the lead vocalist and
guitarist
for
Pencey Prep . After
Pencey Prep
broke up in 2001-02, Frank joined My Chemical Romance, just days before the band's debut album was recorded. [4]
Three months after the formation of the band they recorded their debut album,
I Brought You My Bullets, You Brought Me Your Love , subsequently released in 2002 on Eyeball Records. Despite only joining the band a few days before the album recording sessions began, Iero played guitar on two of the tracks, "Early Sunsets Over Monroeville," and the other being "Demolition Lovers." During this time, the band was booked at the infamous venue, Big Daddy's, where they began to receive mainstream attention. My Chemical Romance offered free downloads through
PureVolume
and the
social networking
site
MySpace , where they gained an initial fan base.
Posted by
Paola Gómez
at
2:59 PM
No comments:
PARAMORE Paramore (IPA:
/ˈpεrəmɔɜr/ ) is an American
rock
band that formed in
Franklin ,
Tennessee
in 2004 consisting of
Hayley Williams
( lead vocals / keyboard ), Josh Farro ( lead guitar / backing vocals ), Taylor York ( rhythm guitar ), Jeremy Davis ( bass guitar ), and Zac Farro ( drums ). The group released their debut album
All We Know Is Falling
in 2005, and their second album
Riot!
in 2007, which was certified
platinum
in the US and gold in the UK and Ireland.
2007–2008: Riot! and other projects Lead vocalist Hayley Williams (front) and rhythm guitarist Taylor York(right) perform at the
Vans Warped Tour
in
Vancouver , July 2007. Paramore began recording their second album
Riot!
in January 2007, ending production in March, without the guitar of Hunter Lamb (who left the band early in 2007 to get married); [8]
without Lamb, lead guitarist Farro was required to play both guitar parts on the album. [25]
Lamb has since been replaced by guitarist Taylor York, who had been in a band with the Farro brothers before the two met Williams.
[19]
After being courted by producers Neal Avron and
Howard Benson , [26]
Paramore opted to record Riot! with
New Jersey
producer David Bendeth ( Your Vegas ,
Breaking Benjamin ), releasing the album on June 12, 2007. Riot! entered the Billboard 200 at number 20, the UK charts at number 24, and sold 44,000 its first week in the United States. [19]
The name Riot! had been chosen because it meant "a sudden outburst of uncontrolled emotion", and it was a word that "summed it all up". [26]
The first single from the album, released June 21, 2007, " Misery Business ", is, according to Williams, "more honest than anything I've ever written, and the guys matched that emotion musically."
Posted by
Paola Gómez
at
2:52 PM
No comments:
FAVORITES GROUPS
PANDA Panda (occasionally styled PXNDX) is a
Mexican
alternative rock
band formed in
Monterrey ,
Nuevo León
in 1996. The band caught local attention in 2001 with the album "Arroz con Leche"
[1] , and mainstream success on their albums
Para ti con desprecio
( 2005 ) and
Amantes Sunt Amentes
( 2006 ). Background Formation (1996-1999) The band was formed by José Madero, Jorge Garza, Ricardo Treviño, and David Castillo, all from
Monterrey, Nuevo León . The band started playing covers but when they realized they were good writing their own songs they started writing songs about friends, parties and love. Those songs were placed on a
demo tape , Demo 1997, and distributed to independent labels. Soon after that, David Castillo departed Panda and was replaced by Super Azfalto's former drummer, Jorge Vásquez. It is said that the drummer leaves the band because he wasn't agreed and thought that it wasn't sane to follow plagiarising songs. They caught the attention of an independent label, Movic Records, and signed a record deal. Arroz con leche and La revancha del príncipe charro (2000-2004)
Their first studio album, " Arroz con leche ", was released in September 2, 2001, and caught little attention by people and critics, only selling 50,000 copies. Their second album, "La revancha del príncipe charro," was released February 3, 2002, a short time after "Arroz con leche". "La revancha del príncipe charro" sold well, and reached platinum in
Mexico . Part of the success of that record was due to the combination of
punk
and
rock
sounds. The album also contained a cover from
Joan Sebastian
and
Alberto Vazquez 's duet song, Maracas. The band toured in the
United States
and
Mexico
to promote their album. At the end of the tour, Jorge Garza left the band and was replaced by another member from Super Azfalto, this time guitarist
Arturo Arredondo . Para ti con desprecio and Amantes sunt amentes (2005-2007)
A third album, Para ti con desprecio, was released in 2005. It is their most popular album to date in
Mexico
and
Latin America , although it lost them many fans, now called Anti-Pandas, because Panda supposedly stole lyrics and guitar riffs from groups such as My Chemical Romance, Fall Out Boy, Green Day, and Smashing Pumpkins. The singles "Cita en el Quirofano", "Cuando no es como debiera ser", and "Disculpa los malos pensamientos" topped
MTV 's Los 10+Pedidos for 39 weeks in total. "Disculpa los malos pensamientos" was also the most voted video on MTV in
2006 [1]
That same year, the band collaborated in the soundtrack of " Skimo ", a Mexican sitcom from
Nickelodeon , with the song "Si esto fuese realidad". At the end of the year, the band released Amantes Sunt Amentes, their fourth album, which reached the top of the Mexican charts within weeks and was certified platinum. To date, the album has sold approximately 200,000 copies, and has become one of the top selling Mexican rock albums of all time. The album's first single, Narcisista Por Excelencia, reached the Mexican Top 10 and was a top 40 hit in Latin America. During this time the band released their second single, "Los Malaventurados no Lloran". The song reached staggering digital success in
Mexico
and became a success in other parts of
Latin America , peaking within the top 40 of the Latin America Top 100. The music video has received heavy rotation in
MTV . In February 2007, the band collaborated in the album "Tributo al más grande", a tribute album for Mexican
norteña
band " Bronco ". The band recorded the song "Oro" with a new rock style. The singer José Madero, accompanied Guadalupe Esparza and Luis Cortes in the song "Amigo Bronco". In mid July, the band released a third single: Procedimientos Para Llegar A Un Comun Acuerdo. Because of the extensive success of the band's previous single, the song was sent to radio stations in all of
Latin America
at the same time. Procedimientos quickly debuted in some of the important Latin charts, ultimately reaching the top 10 in many countries. In
November 30 ,
2007 , Panda released "Sinfonía Soledad", their first live album that contains a concert on
Auditorio Nacional
in
Mexico City . It contains their main songs and two new songs dedicated to their fans. [2] The band was nominated in
Los Premios MTV Latinoamérica 2006 , winning the categories Best Group or Duet, Best Alternative Artist, and Breakthrough Artist. The band performed "Narcicista por excelencia" during the show. In
Los Premios MTV Latinoamérica 2007 , the band was nominated for three categories, but only won Best Alternative Artist.
Posted by
Paola Gómez
at
2:41 PM
No comments:
Home
Subscribe to:
Posts (Atom)
pAoLa'S MuSiiC
¡¡This blog is about many kool music!!
Followers
Blog Archive
▼
2009
(7)
▼
April
(4)
* ,,WeLcOmE tO My bLoG,,* It iS VeRy kOoL
...
LA OREJA DE VAN GOGH
La Oreja de Van Gogh (Englis...
EVANESCENCE
Evanescence is an American rock band...
►
March
(3)
About Me
Paola Gómez
View my complete profile