My Worx Week, The Worx Christmas Party!
Bios
About Worx
Search
RSS
My Worx Week
Home
Bios
About Worx
Archive
Random
Mobile
submitted by
vincelaliberte
The Worx Christmas Party!
This past weekend was the Worx Christmas party. I was the only intern in attendance which is unfortunate because it could have been a fantastic photo op for the intern blog! This picture is of me and the newest full-time employee (as of tomorrow!) here at Worx,
Brett Novak .
It was great getting to hang out with everyone outside of the office.
Grant
gave a presentation in which he basically roasted everyone in the office and gave out the “Worxies” which are the company’s annual awards. They should have had a best intern award! Tomorrow is the last day for the other two interns, Erin and Evan. They were planning on having a surprise birthday party and telling me it was their going away party but I am going to be in
Manhattan
looking at apartments so I ruined it! They gave me a birthday card today since I won’t be in tomorrow. This is the card with its creator and Worx designer extraordinaire,
Lauren Werth ! It is, without question, the coolest birthday card I have ever received. This one is definitely not going in the trash!
†
Thu Dec 8
Worx Branding
Worx
Worx Branding &amp; Advertising
Christmas Party
Worx Christmas Party
interns
internship
Manhatten
About
We are the interns at
Worx Branding & Advertising
and this is our space to share our experiences as college interns with you. We’ve left the world of professors and books for a while, and have come here – to learn about what really goes on, day to day, in one of the most exciting branding firms in the industry. So join us on this blog as often as you’d like, as we chronicle our experiences through honest (and sometimes too honest) glimpses into our time here at
Worx .
Meta
Posted 3 years ago by:
vincelaliberte
of
Vince Laliberte
Tagged as:
Worx Branding
Worx
Worx Branding &amp; Advertising
Christmas Party
Worx Christmas Party
interns
internship
Manhatten
Adam adamworx
Conor conorholland
Leah duglenskil
Erin erinworxweek
Evan Landry evanlandry
In progress hbeemworx
Jessica Bartolini jbartoliniworx
Jessica Carlino jcarlinoworx
justinworx jklanica23
Joe joerinaldiworx
Justin Skaradosky jskaradosky
Justine Konecky justinekonecky
Jordan Wells jwellsworx
Kate P kspodellworx
Lana P lporzio
Untitled mmoody-worx
NADIA JEAN nadiajeann
Nick nicklhomme
"Lose your dreams and you will lose your mind" onemoreshott
Olivia Sylvestro osylvestro
Rachael Conti rcontiworx
Sam samanthapratt
Steve Gentile sgentileworx
Therese Marcelynas tmarcelynas
Vince Laliberte vincelaliberte
Wanderlust wanderlust-livingg
Tumblrs'