05 | July | 2011 | Kterrl's Video Favorites
Kterrl’s Video Favorites
Just another WordPress.com weblog
Home Hot music Videos kterrls Video Favorites
Archive for
July 5, 2011
Rosalyn Sussman Yalow,, American Nobel laureate died he was 89.
Rosalyn Sussman Yalow
was an American
medical physicist , and a co-winner of the 1977
Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine
(together with
Roger Guillemin
and
Andrew Schally ) for development of the
radioimmunoassay
(RIA) technique died he was  89.. She was the second woman to be awarded the Nobel Prize Physiology or Medicine after
Gerty Cori .
(July 19, 1921 – May 30, 2011)
Biography
Born in
Manhattan
to Simon and Clara (née Zipper) Sussman, she attended
Walton High School .
I was excited about achieving a career in physics. My family, being more practical, thought the most desirable position for me would be as an elementary school teacher.
Rosalyn Yalow [3]
Knowing how to type, she won a part-time position as secretary to Dr.
Rudolf Schoenheimer , a leading biochemist at
Columbia University ‘s College of Physicians and Surgeons. Not believing that any good graduate school would admit and provide financial support to a woman, she took a job as a secretary to
Michael Heidelberger , another biochemist at Columbia, who hired her on the condition that she studied
stenography . She graduated from
Hunter College
in January 1941. [ citation needed ]
In mid-February of that aforementioned year she received an offer of a teaching assistantship in physics at the
University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign
with the primary reason being that
World War II
commenced and many men went off to war and the university decided to offer scholarships for women rather than shut down. That summer she took two tuition-free physics courses under government auspices at
New York University . At the
University of Illinois , she was the only woman among the department’s 400 members, and the first since 1917. She married fellow student Aaron Yalow, the son of a rabbi, in June 1943. They had two children and kept a kosher home. [4]
Yalow earned her
Ph.D
in 1945. [4]
After graduating, Yalow joined the Bronx Veterans Administration Hospital to help set up its
radioisotope
service. There she collaborated with
Solomon Berson
to develop
radioimmunoassay
(RIA). RIA is a
radioisotope tracing
technique that allows the measurement of tiny quantities of various biological substances in human blood as well as a multitude of other
aqueous
fluids. RIA testing relies on the creation of two reagents. One reagent is a
molecule
that is the product of
covalently
bonding
a
radioactive
isotope
atom
with a molecule of the target. The second reagent is an antibody which specifically chemically reacts with the target substance. The measurement of target signal is done using both reagents. They are mixed with the fluid containing an unknown concentration of target to me measured. The radioactive atom supplies a signal that can be monitored. The target supplied from the unknown concentration solution displaces the radiolabelled target bond to the antibody. Originally used to study
insulin
levels in
diabetes mellitus , [5]
the technique has since been applied to hundreds of other substances – including
hormones ,
vitamins
and
enzymes
– all too small to detect previously. Despite its huge commercial potential, Yalow and Berson refused to
patent
the method. In 1968, Yalow was appointed Research Professor in the Department of Medicine at
Mount Sinai Hospital , where she later became the Solomon Berson Distinguished Professor at Large. [6]
Until the time of her death she continued to reside in the same house in
Riverdale
that she and her husband purchased after she began working at the Bronx Veterans Administration Medical Center in the 1940s. [7]
Her husband, Dr. Aaron Yalow, died in 1992. [8]
Death
Rosalyn Yalow died on May 30, 2011, aged 89, in
The Bronx
from undisclosed causes. [9] [10]
Awards
In 1975 Yalow and Berson (who had died in 1972) were awarded the
AMA Scientific Achievement Award . The following year she became the first female recipient of the
Albert Lasker Award for Basic Medical Research . In 1977 she received the
Nobel Prize , together with
Roger Guillemin
and
Andrew V. Schally
for her role in devising the
radioimmunoassay
(RIA) technique that by measuring substances in the human body, that made possible the screening the blood of donors for such diseases as hepatitis among other uses. [11]
She was elected a Fellow of the
American Academy of Arts and Sciences
in 1978. [12] [13]
Yalow received the
National Medal of Science
in 1988.
In 1977 Yalow received the Nobel prize for the invention she and Berson created. Radioimmunoassay (RIA) can be used to measure a multitude of substances found in tiny quantities in fluids within and outside of organisms (such as viruses, drugs and hormones). The list of current possible uses is endless, but specifically, RIA allows blood-donations to be screened for various types of
hepatitis . The technique can also be used to identify hormone-related health problems. Further, RIA can be used to detect in the blood many foreign substances including some cancers. Finally, the technique can be used to measure the effectiveness of dose levels of antibiotics and drugs. [14]
To see more of who died in 2010  click here
July 5, 2011 | Categories:
Uncategorized
| Tags:
American Nobel laureate ,
celebrity deaths ,
Rosalyn Sussman Yalow ,
stars that died
| 		 Leave a comment
Jon Blake, Australian actor, died from pneumonia he was , 52.
Jon Blake was an Australian actor of the 1980s died from pneumonia he was , 52. He appeared in several TV shows and films before a car accident in 1986 left him severely disabled.
(26 June 1958 – 29 May 2011)
Biography
Paul Jon Blake was born in New Zealand in 1958. An only child, he moved to Australia with his parents when he was 13, and he trained as a professional
boxer
before becoming a popular actor on Australian television. He quickly progressed from a role in the
soap opera
The Restless Years
(in which he was credited as Sonny Blake) to television miniseries and films. One of his highest-profile roles was a starring role in the Australian television miniseries
Anzacs . His good looks led to him being named by
Cleo
magazine as one of the most eligible bachelors of 1986.
His charismatic presence and fast-rising star led to him being dubbed “the next
Mel Gibson “, with mentions of several work opportunities in the United States and talk of a new
Mad Max
film. In December 1986 he was badly injured in a car accident while driving home after the last day of filming on
The Lighthorsemen
in the
South Australian
desert. An oncoming car appeared on his path and he swerved to avoid it, crashing into a car which was parked on the side of the road. He was not expected to survive the accident. His only external injury was a light graze on his left cheek, but he sustained permanent brain damage in the accident, and was unable to care for himself. [ citation needed ]
Court cases
After several long and complex legal battles and appeals, [1] [ dead link ]
Blake was finally awarded $7.7 million in compensation for his care taking and lost future earnings. The amount was decided on the thought that there was a 60% to 70% chance that Blake would have achieved considerable success as an actor in the United States (earning $1 to $2 million a movie) and a 30% chance of reaching the
superstar
bracket. Academy Award winning filmmaker
George Miller
testified at the court case. [ citation needed ]
Until her death in 2007, his mother, Mascot Blake, was his primary caregiver. After her death, Jon Blake’s son Dustin cared for his father until Blake’s death. [2]
Death
Blake died on 29 May 2011, aged 52, from complications from
pneumonia . [3]
Filmography
Film and television
credits
Title
Year
Role
Notes
The Restless Years
1977–1980
Alan Archer
The
Slippery Slide
1980
Chris Newsbury
Freedom
1982
Ron
Early Frost
1982
Peter Meadows
A Country Practice
1982–1984
Steve Vargas
Boy in the
Bush
1984
Tom Ellis
TV mini-series
Five
Mile Creek
1984
Trooper Wilson
1 episode
The Slim Dusty Movie
1984
Young
Slim Dusty
Anzacs
1985
Private Flanagan
TV mini-series
Cool Change
1986
Pete
The Lighthorsemen
1987
Scotty
Running from
the Guns
1987
Davie
To see more of who died in 2010  click here
July 5, 2011 | Categories:
Uncategorized
| Tags:
Australian actor ,
celebrity deaths ,
Jon Blake ,
stars that died
| 		 Leave a comment
Russell Peters – Beating Your Kids
Now Thats Funny!!!!
July 5, 2011 | Categories:
Uncategorized
| Tags:
comedians ,
comedy ,
jokes ,
now thats funny ,
russell peters
| 		 Leave a comment
Bill Clements, American politician, Governor of Texas (1979–1983; 1987–1991) died he was , 94.
William Perry “Bill” Clements, Jr.
was the
42nd and 44th Governor of Texas , serving from 1979 to 1983 and 1987 to 1991 died he was , 94.. Clements was the first
Republican
to have served as
governor
of the
U.S.
state of
Texas
since
Reconstruction . Clements’ eight years in office were the most served by any Texan governor prior to current Governor
Rick Perry .
(April 13, 1917 – May 29, 2011)
Early career
Clements was born in
Dallas
and worked as an
oil
driller for many years. He founded SEDCO in 1947, the world’s largest
offshore drilling
company and technical leader of the offshore drilling industry, developing dynamically positioned drilling rigs, top drives, and many other offshore drilling innovations. In 1984, SEDCO was sold to
Schlumberger Ltd. , and its assets combined with their drilling contractor subsidiary,
Forex , under Schlumberger management, to form
Sedco Forex Schlumberger . Sedco Forex Schlumberger was acquired by
Transocean Ltd.
in 1999 and combined with their existing fleet. [2]
He entered politics as the
United States Deputy Secretary of Defense
under Presidents
Richard Nixon
and
Gerald Ford , in the latter administration under Defense Secretary
Donald Rumsfeld
(1975–1977).
Texas’ first GOP governor since Reconstruction
On January 16, 1979, Clements succeeded
Democrat
Dolph Briscoe
as governor of Texas. To win the position, he first defeated
State Representative
Ray Hutchison
in the Republican primary by a lopsided vote of 115,345 to 38,268. Hutchison, a prominent Dallas
attorney , is the second husband of
Texas State Treasurer
(1991–1993) and
U.S. Senator
Kay Bailey Hutchison , who has served since 1993. Clements won the November 1978 general election by narrowly defeating Democratic former Texas Supreme Court Chief Justice
John Hill , who was the two-term Texas Attorney General for six years. Clements polled 1,183,828 votes (49.96 percent) to Hill’s 1,166,919 ballots (49.24 percent). The
La Raza
nominee, Mario C. Compean, and two other minor candidates shared 18,942 ballots. Clements’ margin over Hill was 16,909. Therefore, Clements fell just under a simple majority, making him another “minority governor.” The more liberal Hill, who had also once been the appointed secretary of state, had defeated Briscoe in the primary.
In winning, Clements achieved victory with 350,158 ballots less than the 1972 GOP nominee,
Henry Grover
went down to defeat with, because turnout was much lower in the 1978 off-year election than it had been during the aforementioned presidential election year. The 1972 Texas governor’s race was the last to coincide with a presidential election because when the terms went to four years, the gubernatorial elections were also set to coincide with the off years between presidential elections.
Clements ran for reelection in 1982, but he was defeated by Democratic Attorney General
Mark White
by more than 327,000 votes because of sagging economic indicators and weak support from minority voters, who historically tend to support Democratic candidates. White received 1,697,870 (53.2 percent) to Clements’ 1,465,537 (45.9 percent). In addition, the Republican down-ballot candidates were all defeated in 1982, including
George Strake, Jr. , a
Houston
businessman who had been Clements’ former
secretary of state . Strake ran for
lieutenant governor
against the incumbent Democrat,
Bill Hobby . After the 1982 campaign, Strake was named to replace
Chet Upham
of
Mineral Wells
as the Republican state chairman, a position that he filled from 1983-1988.
Staging the 1986 comeback
In between his two terms as governor, Clements was chairman of the board of trustees of
Southern Methodist University
in Dallas. He ran again in 1986 and won a contested GOP primary against
U.S. Representative
Thomas Loeffler
of
New Braunfels , the seat of
Comal County , and former Democratic turned Republican Congressman
Kent Hance
of
Lubbock . In the fall, Clements unseated Governor White, who was hurt by the unpopularity of the “no pass/no play” policy involving high school athletics and proposed teacher competency testing. In gaining his second term, Clements polled 1,813,779 ballots (52.7 percent) to White’s 1,584,512 (46.1 percent). Clements had turned the tables on White in a near mathematical reversal of the 1982 results and was inaugurated for a second nonconsecutive term on January 20, 1987, where according to several people who covered Clements’ second inaugural, Clements refused to shake White’s hand on live statewide television.
Clements as governor
His first term was marked by SEDCO’s involvement in the largest oil blowout in history, the
Ixtoc I oil spill , which caused extensive environmental damage. (See “Oil Rig Disasters at:
http://home.versatel.nl/the_sims/rig/ixtoc1.htm
and “Incident News”, NOAA site at:
http://www.incidentnews.gov/incident/6250
) During this time,
Charlie Brooks, Jr. , became the first inmate ever to be executed by
lethal injection
(December 1982). Clements faced heavily Democratic state legislatures during his tenure. In 1979, the legislature overrode one of his vetoes, the last time that Texas lawmakers have completed an override. In 1980, Clements commuted the death sentence of
Randall Dale Adams
to life in prison. Adams, the subject of
The Thin Blue Line , an
Errol Morris
documentary film, was exonerated in 1989 after serving twelve years in prison.
During his second term, Clements worked to reduce crime, improve education, boost the Texas economy, and to foster better relations with
Mexico , especially on issues important to the mutual borders, such as immigration and the
War on Drugs .
However, his second term was marred by a startling revelation he made two months after taking office. On March 3, 1987, Clements admitted that he and the other members of the SMU board of governors had approved a secret plan to
continue payments to 13 football players
from a
slush fund
provided by a booster. Clements said that the board agreed to “phase out” the slush fund at the end of the 1986 season, but that it felt duty-bound to honor prior commitments to the players. The decision to continue the payments ultimately led to the
NCAA
shutting down the football program for the 1987 season—the so-called “ death penalty .” SMU then opted not to field a team in 1988 as well, claiming it could not put together a competitive squad. The shutdown and other sanctions left the once-proud Mustang football program in ruin; SMU has had only two winning seasons since returning to the field, and would not procure another bowl bid until 2009. A few months later, the College of Bishops of the
United Methodist Church
released a report detailing an investigation of its own into the scandal. It revealed that Clements had met with athletic director Bob Hitch, and the two agreed that the payments had to continue because the football program had “a payroll to meet.” [3]
A week later, Clements apologized for his role in continuing the payments. He said the he had learned about the slush fund in 1984, and an investigation by the board of governors revealed that players had been paid to play since the mid-1970s. Clements said that rather than shut the payments down immediately, the board “reluctantly and uncomfortably” decided to continue paying players who had already been guaranteed payments. However, he said, in hindsight the board “should have stopped (the payments) immediately,” rather than merely phase them out. [4]
Clements faced calls for his
impeachment
as a result of these statements; two state legislators argued that he would have never been elected had he honestly addressed his role in the scandal. Under the circumstances, he opted not to run for a third term as governor and was succeeded on January 15, 1991 by Democratic state Treasurer
Ann Richards .
Post-political life
William P. Clements State Office Building in
Austin, Texas
After leaving the governorship, Clements lent considerable personal effort to support a variety of Republican candidates seeking office in Texas. He resided in Dallas with his second wife, the former Rita Crocker (born October 30, 1931), who was first lady of Texas during both of his administrations. She was subsequently appointed to the University of Texas Regents by Governor
George W. Bush . Clements was known for his acerbic, energetic personality, which Democrats abhorred but Republicans tended to cheer. In 1993, he had supported the conservative Congressman
Joe Barton
in the
special election
for the
U.S. Senate
to succeed newly-resigned Democrat
Lloyd Bentsen . Barton lost out to Kay Bailey Hutchison. Clements also supported the embattled Texas Supreme Court Justice
Steven Wayne Smith , who was purged by Governor Rick Perry in the 2004 Republican primary. [ citation needed ]
Clements High School
Whereas Governor Perry first endorsed former
Mayor
Rudolph W. Giuliani
of
New York City
for the 2008 Republican presidential nomination, Bill Clements was as early as 2006 already raising funds for the eventual nominee, U.S. Senator
John McCain
of
Arizona . After Giuliani withdrew from the race, Perry joined Clements in endorsing McCain. [ citation needed ]
In June 2009, Clements donated $100 million to
UT Southwestern Medical Center , the largest civic donation in Dallas history. [5]
On February 16, 2010, Clements and his wife both endorsed Governor Rick Perry’s re-election campaign in the 2010 Texas Republican gubernatorial primary against Kay Bailey Hutchison. [ citation needed ]
In October 2010, Clements’ son, B. Gill Clements (born 1941), was murdered at the age of 69 near his ranch in
Athens
in
Henderson County
in east Texas. An investor, Clements was also a graduate of Southern Methodist University, married, and the father of three children. He was
Death
On
Memorial Day
weekend in 2011, Clements died at age 94 in a Dallas hospital from natural causes. In addition to his wife Rita, Clements was survived by a daughter, Nancy Clements Seay.
To see more of who died in 2010  click here
July 5, 2011 | Categories:
Uncategorized
| Tags:
american politician ,
Bill Clements ,
celebrity deaths ,
Governor of Texas (1979–1983; 1987–1991) ,
stars that died
| 		 Leave a comment
Tom Roeser, American political commentator died he was , 82.
Thomas F. Roeser
was a
Chicago -based conservative writer and broadcaster, who broadcast for many years on
WLS 890 AM
talk radio died he was , 82.
He also was the founder and former chairman of the editorial board of a Chicago Internet newspaper,
The Chicago Daily Observer , as well as a lecturer, teacher and former vice president of The
Quaker Oats
Company of Chicago.
(July 23, 1928 – May 29, 2011)
Early life and education
Roeser was born in
Evanston, Illinois
on July 23, 1928 and graduated from Saint Juliana elementary school and the William Howard Taft High School there. He graduated from
Saint John’s University (Minnesota)
in
Collegeville, Minnesota
with a bachelor’s in English literature. He continued his education in graduate studies at DePaul (English), Loyola University of Chicago (political science) and
Harvard University
(political science). He was a former
John F. Kennedy Fellow
at
Harvard University
and a fellow with the
Woodrow Wilson National Fellowship Foundation
based in
Princeton, New Jersey .
Professional career
After a short time spent in the advertising agency business in Chicago, Roeser moved to Minnesota in 1953 to become the city editor of the Saint Cloud Daily Times, serving also as a stringer for the
Associated Press . He was named director of research and news-information for the Minnesota Republican party in 1955 where he stayed until 1958, supervising the party’s communications program, including media coverage and advertising. In 1958 he was named press secretary to a newly elected Republican congressman, Rep.
Albert H. Quie
of Minnesota. The following year, 1959, he served in addition as press secretary to Rep.
Walter H. Judd
of Minnesota, then the ranking Republican on the
United States House Committee on Foreign Affairs .
In 1960 with election of a Republican governor of Minnesota,
Elmer L. Andersen , Roeser was appointed news secretary and supervised news dissemination for state government. At the completion of Andersen’s term, Roeser returned to the Minnesota Republican party in an enhanced role: director of communications where he served from 1963 to 1964 when he left to return to Chicago to initiate a program of public affairs and government relations as well as community relations for The Quaker Oats Company.
Roeser launched Quaker’s government relations program as well as its urban affairs program in the inner city of Chicago and at plant locations throughout the company. He remained in this position with Quaker Oats until 1969 when he was recruited by the Nixon administration as an assistant to the
United States Secretary of Commerce
to begin a new federal program involving aid to minority business enterprise. He formed the nation’s first program to assist minority business (now the
Minority Business Development Agency ). In 1970 in a dispute with the Nixon administration which, he felt, was not serious about the program, he recommended the abolition of his own agency. This was highly unpopular and he was let go by the administration, but which also appointed him as director-public affairs and Congressional relations for the Peace Corps. As a foreign service officer, he managed the agency’s world-wide communications and advertising program until The Quaker Oats Company requested he return to it — which he did in 1971 — after which he became its vice president-government relations.
He became the first corporate lobbyist to be appointed Fellow of the John F. Kennedy School of Government, serving in its Institute of Politics where he taught in addition to continuing his role — on leave — at Quaker. Shortly thereafter he was named a Woodrow Wilson International Fellow in Princeton, New Jersey. On returning to Chicago to resume full-time duties at Quaker he also taught after hours at the
Wharton School of Finance , University of Pennsylvania;
the Kellogg School ,
Northwestern University ; Loyola University of Chicago; DePaul University; the University of Illinois-Chicago and Saint John’s College, Oxford. In addition, while continuing his work at Quaker, he became an
op-ed
writer for
The Chicago Sun-Times , following which he wrote for
The Chicago Tribune
and wrote op-eds for
The Wall Street Journal .
Political work
Long active in Chicago civic, religious and political life, Roeser was a founder of Project LEAP ( Legal Elections in All Precincts ), the city’s anti-vote-fraud organization, was president of the
City Club of Chicago
for seventeen years and its chairman; was chairman, founder of the
Republican Assembly of Illinois , an organization of grassroots conservative Republicans, and a co-founder of
Catholic Citizens of Illinois . He was a member of the
Fellowship of Catholic Scholars , a board member of the
Howard Center, Rockford
and program chairman of
Legatus (Chicago) , an organization of Catholic CEOs and was vice chairman of Haymarket Center, Chicago, a leading rehabilitation center for victims of alcohol and substance abuse.
Broadcasting career
Roeser began hosting a talk show on WLS-AM in Chicago in 1994. He began on a fill-in basis, substituting for
Ed Vrdolyak
on his show alongside
Ty Wansley . [2]
Vrdolyak quit the show in May 1994, and then, after Illinois Lieutenant Governor
Bob Kustra
first agreed to take the radio host job replacing Vrdolyk and then decided against it in August 1994, [3]
Roeser again began hosting alongside Wansley. He retired on May 21, 2011. [4] [5]
Roeser was a member of the
American Federation of Television and Radio Artists
(AFTRA), which is affiliated with the AFL-CIO.
Writing
Roeser authored the book
Father Mac: The Life and Times of
Ignatius D. McDermott , co-founder of Chicago’s famed
Haymarket Center . His Op Ed columns appeared in the
Chicago Sun-Times ,
Chicago Tribune
and
The Wall Street Journal . He also was Chicago correspondent for
The Wanderer , the oldest national Catholic weekly in the United States and wrote on his own blog, blog.tomroeser.com. In addition to hosting his own talk radio program, “Political Shootout” on
WLS-AM , Chicago, he appeared as a commentator on The
McNeil-Lehrer NewsHour
on
PBS , on
BBC
and often on Chicago Tonight on
WTTW-TV
Chicago Public Radio and on Inside Politics on WBEZ Chicago public radio. In addition, he was an occasional guest on Beyond the Beltway with
Bruce DuMont , a coast-to-coast television and radio program broadcast weekly.
Teaching
Roeser’s teaching career included service as adjunct professor of public policy at the
Wharton School of Finance ,
University of Pennsylvania ; the
Kellogg School of Management , Northwestern University;
Loyola University of Chicago ;
DePaul University
of Chicago; the
University of Illinois-Chicago ;
Roosevelt University
of Chicago and
Saint John’s College ,
Oxford University .
Personal
Roeser was married from 1959 until his death to the former Lillian Prescott of Chicago. The couple were parents of four grown children, two sons (Thomas F., Jr. and Michael J.) and two daughters (Mary Catherine Magnor and Jeanne Roeser) and is grandfather to 13. In 1988 he and Mrs. Roeser were named by
Pope John Paul II
as Knight and Lady of the
Equestrian Order of the Holy Sepulcher of Jerusalem , a Roman Catholic charitable order.
Death
On Sunday, May 29, 2011, Roeser died after a short illness. [6] [7]
Fellow talk-show host
Dan Proft
told the Daily Herald newspaper that Roeser died of congestive heart failure. [8]
To see more of who died in 2010  click here
July 5, 2011 | Categories:
Uncategorized
| Tags:
American political commentator ,
celebrity deaths ,
stars that died ,
Tom Roeser
| 		 Leave a comment
Bill Roycroft, Australian equestrian, five-time Olympian, gold medallist (1960) died he was , 96
James William “Bill” George Roycroft
OBE
was an Olympic
equestrian
champion who competed for
Australia
in five consecutive
Summer Olympic Games :
1960 ,
1964 ,
1968 ,
1972
and
1976
died he was , 96.
(17 March 1915 – 29 May 2011)
He was born in
Flowerdale ,
Victoria . Although seriously injured during the 1960 Olympics in Rome, he left his hospital bed to compete in Show Jumping, which was the final event. He rode a flawless round, and Australia won the Gold Medal.
He was one of the eight
flag-bearers
of the
Olympic Flag
at the opening ceremony of the
2000 Summer Olympics
in
Sydney .
Bill Roycroft died in hospital at Camperdown, Victoria on 29 May 2011, age 96. [1]
At the time of his death, he was Australia’s oldest surviving Olympian. [2
To see more of who died in 2010  click here
July 5, 2011 | Categories:
Uncategorized
| Tags:
Australian equestrian ,
Bill Roycroft ,
celebrity deaths ,
five-time Olympian ,
gold medallist (1960) ,
stars that died
| 		 Leave a comment
Mohammed Daud Daud, Afghan general, police commander for northern Afghanistan, died
from bombing he was , 42.
General
H.E. Mohammed Daud Daud ,was the police chief for Northern
Afghanistan
and the commander of the elite 303 Pamir Corps died  from bombing he was , 42.. He was considered one of the most effective and important opponents of the Afghan
Taliban .
(1 January 1969 – 28 May 2011)
Gen. Daud studied
engineering
in college. [1]
After graduating college in the 1980s he joined the forces of
Ahmad Shah Massoud
against the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan. [2]
After the retreat of Soviet troops and the defeat of the Afghan communist regime, Gen. Daud remained in
Takhar
province of Afghanistan. Ahmad Shah Massoud had ordered him to guard northern areas and to keep his forces out of the capital Kabul. When the Taliban took power in Kabul, General Daud served as a leading military commander of the anti- Taliban
United Front
under the command of Ahmad Shah Massoud, [3]
which later spearheaded the defeat of the
Taliban . In October 2001, Gen. Daud was directly responsible for retaking the city of
Kunduz
from an
Al Qaeda -Taliban alliance.
After the fall of the Taliban regime, he was appointed a Deputy Interior Minister for Counter Narcotics in Afghanistan. [4]
His campaign against poppy cultivation was successful in several provinces such as Logar, Ghazni, Wardak, Paktia, Paktika and Panjshir. [5]
In 2010, he was appointed police chief of 8 northern provinces. Daud commanded all Interior Ministry forces in the north, including his own elite force of police commandos, Pamir 303. Considered one of the most effective opponents of the Taliban he was a high profile target. Gen. Daud was assassinated on May 28, 2011 after a Taliban bomb attack in Taloqan, Afghanistan, in which six other people also lost their lives.
General Daud and the Battle of Kunduz
General Daud was responsible for overseeing the November 2001 siege of
Kunduz
which was the last major battle in the assault to topple the Taliban [6]
During the siege of Kunduz all sides of the city were surrounded by
Northern Alliance
forces. Inside the city it was estimated 20,000-30,000 Taliban fighters were holed up. Many of these fighters had vowed to fight to the death, rather than surrender to Northern Alliance [7]
forces. Inside of Kunduz during the November 2001 siege were the so called “Afghan Arabs”, the foreign volunteers believed to be led by
Osama bin Laden . According to General Mohammed Daud a pro-Taliban leader named “Omar al-Khatab”–was leading a force of 1,000 foreign fighters belonging to Osama bin Laden’s al-Qaida network. [8]
Little was known about the foreign Taliban. According to Afghan Taliban soldiers taken prisoner by the Northern Alliance, the foreigners did not fight side by side with the Taliban, but in separate units, under their own commanders. [7]
As the siege wore on, the mayor of Kunduz eventually trekked through the surrounding mountains to meet General Mohammed Daud of the Northern Alliance. A meeting between the two men supposedly took place in a garden near
Taloqan . Following the meeting with General Daud the mayor was ready to surrender, but still needed time to negotiate with the foreign volunteers, who bitterly opposed the surrender. [7]
In an effort to end the siege, General Daud promised the low ranking Taliban fighters fair treatment if they surrendered: “We will allow the low-ranking foreigners to appear before a court.” [7]
On November 27, 2001 street-to-street fighting began at 7am in Kunduz, when Northern Alliance troops led by General Mohammed Daud advanced into town. The remaining Taliban were defeated and Kunduz fell into Northern Alliance control. [9]
After victory at the siege of Kunduz and the subsequent establishment of the Interim Government in Afghanistan, General Daud was appointed as Military commander of Corps No 6 in Kunduz /Kunduz province. [2]
General Daud’s political career
General Daud was the former governor of the Takhar province in Afghanistan. [10]
Daud was appointed as governor at the request of the
British government
in order to oversee Takhar province. [11]
The former governor, whom Daud replaced, had been widely implicated in the drug trade. [11]
British officials regarded Mr Daud as the cleanest governor in Afghanistan and hoped that his extensive experience in development would help to win over the population and curb
opium
production. [11]
Gen. Mohammad Daud was the top counter-narcotics official in the Afghan government. Counternarcotics enforcement activities have been directed from within the Ministry of Interior since 2002. [12]
General Mohammed Daud was named Deputy Ministry of Interior for Counternarcotics by Afghan President
Hamid Karzai
in October 2004. [12]
He was also the head of the
Counter Narcotics Police of Afghanistan
(CNPA). General Daud and his staff worked with U.S. and British officials in implementing the Afghan government’s expanded counternarcotics enforcement plan. Soon following his appointment, General Daud led an Afghan delegation that participated in a thirty night session of the sub-commission on illicit Drug Traffic and related matters in the Near and Middle East (HONLEA) in Beirut, Lebanon. Delegates from twenty-one countries participated in the meeting. General Mohammad Daud delivered a presentation on the counter narcotics activities of the government of Afghanistan, achievements and problems still being faced. [2]
President
Hamid Karzai
has taken steps to establish landlocked Afghanistan as a trade hub connecting the Middle East, Central Asia and Europe. General Daud has been involved in President Hamid Karzai’s plan to rehabilitate the war torn Afghan
economy . In late December 2002 General Daud lead an economic trade delegation to neighboring
Tajikistan .
Kabul
has been particularly interested in swiftly opening trading routes in
Central Asia
where there is a vast market for Afghan goods. [13]
General Daud has expressed optimism about Afghanistan’s effort to halt the opium trade: “We witnessed a remarkable reduction in the level of
poppy
cultivation
all over Afghanistan last year. We worked very hard in the provinces where poppy cultivation was higher last year. The poppy eradication campaign is extensively under way in 11 provinces. Some 45,000 jeribs [9,000 hectares] of poppy cultivated land have so far been cleared. The campaign will start in 11 other provinces soon.” [14]
General Daud was also involved in Afghanistan’s Disbandment of Illegal Armed (DIAG). [15]
DIAG is a program within the Afghan
Ministry of Interior . DAIG supports the Afghan government’s objectives to bring stability to Afghanistan through the continuing process of demilitarization. The program also focuses on removing from office those government officials with proven links to illegal armed groups. General Daud said that DIAG is not a program to take only weapons from individuals but that it is a program to disband the armed groups in order to ensure a sustainable safe and secure country. [16]
Fight against Taliban terrorism
Acid attack on Afghan schoolgirls
On November 12, 2008 attackers in Afghanistan sprayed acid in the faces of at least 15 girls near a school in
Kandahar . [17]
One of the girls who was attacked was quoted as saying, “We were going to school on foot when two unknown people on a motorcycle came close to us and threw acid in our faces”, 16-year-old Atifa told the BBC.”
[17]
At least two of the girls were blinded by the attack. [18]
General Mohammad Daud was tasked to deal with the incident. The attack on the girls, who had been wearing all-covering
burqas , drew wide condemnation including from President
Hamid Karzai
and U.S. First Lady
Laura Bush
who described it as “cowardly and shameful”. [19]
General Daud said authorities had arrested 10 men in connection to the attack a few days after the occurrence. [20]
In discussing the acid attack, General Daud stated at a press conference: “The attack was the work of the Taliban and we have not finalised our investigation”. [20]
As the investigation into the acid attack continued General Mohammad Daud, told the
BBC
that “the attack was the work of the Taliban” and that the attackers “were taking orders from the other side of the border [with Pakistan] from those who are leading
terrorist
attacks in
Kandahar .” [21]
The ten Afghans that were arrested were each been promised 100,000
Pakistani
rupees
(US$1,300) by Taliban rebels in Pakistan to carry out the attack, deputy interior minister General Mohammad Daud told reporters. [19]
Many of the ten men who had been arrested had confessed to the attacks. General Daud said his ministry had opened a bank account to collect money for the girls’ medical treatment and education. [19]
Military operations
In March 2011 a BBC crew was embeded with General Daud’s forces during a battle against the Taliban in
Baghlan . The journalist described:
“The man in charge of the offensive was a soft-spoken and charismatic general named Mohammed Daoud Daoud. … Everywhere he went, Daoud stressed the need to respect the local population. He was saying all the right things from the international community’s point of view. It made me wonder whether he had political ambitions. But this was also the right way to fight an insurgency. It made military sense. In one meeting of his commanders, he said: “If the arbakis [local militias] do anything wrong, disarm them, handcuff them, and bring them to me. No exceptions.” He went on: “Some of these guys are mad; some of them are on drugs. They are an embarrassment. But this time, they are part of the operation.” So why let them join the assault at all? He explained that they knew the terrain and the people. He needed them “only as guides.” A few days before the offensive was due to start, he called about 20 arbaki commanders into his office. They sat on rows of folding chairs as he delivered a speech about the need to respect human rights. As they stood up to leave, he added, “If any of your men rape the local women, I will hang them.” “ [22]
Counter-Narcotics campaign
Opium in Afghanistan
Opium from Afghanistan provides more than 90 percent of the world’s total supply, funding international drug syndicates with billions of
dollars
in profits every year. [11]
General Mohammad Daud has said that more than 110,000 people are actively involved in drug business across the country. [23]
This number had been estimated by the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crimes (UNODC). In June 2007 General Daud estimated there were over 1,000 smugglers, including some government officials arrested over the previous three years. [23]
General Daud stated in an interview: “Our job as a law enforcement agency is to make sure eradication is done and farmers are not cultivating opium poppy.We want to put some 4–5 traffickers in jail from each poppy producing province to make an example. . . .The other side is the poverty of the farmers. We, the Afghan state, will do our part; there will be no more poppy cultivation. But it is the responsibility of the big donors to provide alternative livelihoods, alternative crops and development to the farmers, both short term and long term.” [24]
The head of the
UN ‘s drugs agency said recently the Taliban made $100 million last year by levying a 10% tax on opium-growing farmers. [25]
In response to the illicit opium trade, General Mohammad Daud reported that counter- narcotics
activities had been “boosted considerably” since 2007. [25]
During the first eight months of 2007, over 300 tonnes of
cannabis , over 25 tonnes of opium and over 10 tonnes of
heroin , as well as several tonnes of heroin-producing chemicals, were impounded. [25]
Twenty-five
heroin -producing laboratories were also destroyed, according to the Interior Ministry. [26]
In December 2008, General Daud was a keynote speaker at a U.N. conference in Kabul, Afghanistan. [27]
General Daud stated that Afghan law enforcement agencies needed international assistance in training and equipment. He talked about lack of security and linkage between drug-trafficking and terrorism as well as profound corruption in the police and the army. His presentation highlighted the Ministry of the Interior’s strategy in the field of counternarcotics. These included dismantling drug-trafficking networks/organizations, poppy eradication and crop substitution. General Daud informed the participants that the “poppy eradication force” would complete its training soon and would be deployed to the southern provinces of Afghanistan. He noted that the force would be responsible for manually eradicating poppy plantations. [27]
He called for international support to continue with the poppy eradication programme and to expand the crop substitution programme to other provinces. The General suggested posting liaison officers to Pakistan, Iran and Tajikistan in order to foster international cooperation. Afghanistan had signed agreements with a number of countries and was in the process of signing memorandums of understanding with neighboring countries aimed at improving cooperation, information-sharing, and controlled delivery operations, according to the General. His ministry’s activities in strengthening security at the borders and airports and establishing border control liaison officers were also emphasized. [27]
In February 2009 General Daud stated that he was hopeful that the poppy crop production in Afghanistan would likely to drop by 50 percent this year. [28]
General Daud stated in a press conference Taliban and smugglers have joined hands to pose a bigger threat to the Afghan government. Special counter narcotics police have come under enemy attack during the counter-narcotics drive in several occasions that inflicted casualties on the law-enforcers, he said. The campaign against poppy was successful in Logar, Ghazni, Wardag, Paktia, Paktika and Panjshir provinces. [5]
Taliban and opium
The opium trade has been a continuing source of financing for the Taliban.
Taliban insurgents
force farmers to grow opium
poppies
to fund their operations. [29]
General Daud was recently quoted as saying, “”The Taliban have forged an alliance with
drug
smugglers , providing protection for drug convoys and mounting attacks to keep the government away and the poppy flourishing.”
[10]
General Mohammad Daud was further quoted in
The New Yorker
about this alliance, saying, “There has been a coalition between the Taliban and the opium smugglers. This year, they have set up a commission to tax the harvest.” [30]
In return, he said, the Taliban had offered opium farmers protection from the
government ‘s eradication efforts. The switch in strategy has an obvious logic: it provides opium money for the Taliban to sustain itself and helps it to win over the farming communities. [30]
In a continued effort to curb the opium trade in Afghanistan Mohammed Duad reported in June 2008 that police in Kabul set fire to 7.5 tonnes of
narcotics . In April 2009, the Afghan anti-drug officers burned more than six-and-a-half tons of seized heroin, opium, hashish and drug-manufacturing chemicals worth up to £70 million on the UK market. [31]
“If we do not burn the drugs, thousands of others will become drug addicts”, said General Daud Daud, deputy minister for counter narcotics at the Interior Ministry. By burning this amount of opium and narcotics we show the people we are committed to the fight against drugs.” [25] [31]
Mobile opium processing labs
Reports seem to suggest Afghan drug traffickers are turning to new concealment methods. Mobile processing labs started to be seen at the end of 2003 and beginning of 2004. These processing labs can be difficult to locate. According to General Daud “reports and tip-offs” have to be relied on in order to find them. [32]
General Daud added: “Previously, they were using wood in their big laboratories. They could not move [them] and we started to find their laboratories, so they decided to make all their laboratories into mobile labs so they can carry them to different places. They started using
gas
and
diesel
[as fuel].” [32]
Afghan counter- narcotics
police
point to key smugglers having strong links with processing laboratories and say that laboratories are sometimes heavily guarded. “They have a lot of weapons, and in some areas they are supported by government officials,” said Daud, although he would not reveal in which areas guarded laboratories had been a particular problem. A
Kandahar
resident who has had close contact with the drugs trade said that laboratories, often just comprising metal drums and a large press, are mainly located in the border areas. The location of laboratories in these areas points to the involvement of Pakistani
chemists . [32]
Death
He was killed by a
suicide bomber
who attacked a meeting held in the headquarters of the provincial governor of
Takhar Province . The attack caused six fatalities, among them two German soldiers. The commander of
ISAF troops
in North Afghanistan, General Markus Kneip, was wounded. [33]
The
Taliban
claimed responsibility for the attack. [33]
To see more of who died in 2010  click here
July 5, 2011 | Categories:
Uncategorized
| Tags:
Afghan general ,
celebrity deaths ,
Mohammed Daud Daud ,
police commander for northern Afghanistan ,
stars that died
| 		 Leave a comment
Did you know that John Stockton missed only 22 games out of over 1,400 games during his career, 18 of them in one season?
Did you know that John Stockton played
college basketball
for
Gonzaga University
in his hometown where he averaged 20.9 points per game while shooting 57%
from the field
in his senior year?
Did you know that John Stockton was selected by the Utah Jazz
with the 16th overall pick in the 1984 NBA Draft?
Did you know that John Stockton averaged a career
double-double , with 13.1
points
and 10.5
assists
per game?
Did you know that Stockton holds the NBA’s record for most career assists (15,806)
by
a margin of more than 4,000, as well as the record for most career
steals
(3,265)?
Did you know that Stockton had five of the top six assists seasons in NBA history (the other belonging to
Isiah Thomas )?
Did you know Stockton holds the NBA record for the most seasons, games, and consecutive
games played with one team, and is third in total games played, behind
Kareem Abdul-Jabbar
and
Robert Parish ?
Did you know that John Stockton missed only 22 games out of over 1,400 games during his career, 18 of them in one season?
Did you know that Stockton played in 38 games where he tallied 20 or more assists?
Did you know that Stockton appeared in 10
All-Star games , and was named co- MVP
of the game in 1993 with Jazz teammate
Karl Malone , which was held in
Salt Lake City, Utah ?
He played with the 1992 and 1996 US Olympic basketball teams, known as
Dream Team
I and III, the first Olympic squads to feature NBA players, keeping
the
game ball from both Gold Medal games.
He was selected to the
All-NBA First Team
twice, the
All-NBA Second Team
six times, the
All-NBA Third Team
three times, and the NBA All-Defensive Second Team five times.
He was named one of the
50 Greatest Players in NBA history
in 1996. Stockton’s career highlight came in Game 6 of the 1997
Western Conference
Finals. Stockton scored the last 9 points for the Jazz, including a buzzer-beating 3-point shot over the
Houston Rockets ‘
Charles Barkley , to send the Jazz to the first of its two consecutive
NBA Finals
appearances.
Did you know that Stockton and Malone played a
record 1,412 regular-season games together as teammates?
Did you know that a Majority of Stockton’s assists resulted from passes to Malone?
His number-12 jersey was retired by the Jazz during a game on November
22, 2004. A statue of Stockton can be seen in front of the Energy
Solutions Arena; an accompanying statue of Karl Malone was placed nearby
on March 23, 2006.
Did you know that Malone and Stockton statues stand on a bronze
plaque commemorating their achievements together?
Did you know that Stockton was a member of the 2009 class of inductees to the
Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame  along with
Patrick Ewing ,
Charles Barkley ,
Dominique Wilkins ,
Elgin Baylor ,
Reggie Miller ,
Pete Maravich , and his teammate
Karl Malone ?
Did you know that John Stockton is considered to be one of the best players never to have won an
NBA championship ?
Now if you didn’t know, now you know…
To see more did you know that trivia  click here
July 5, 2011 | Categories:
Uncategorized
| Tags:
Did you know ,
Did you know that? ,
john stockton ,
stange facts ,
trivia information
| 		 Leave a comment
23 people got busted on May 31, 2011
To See more of Who Got Busted In Memphis  click here.
July 5, 2011 | Categories:
Uncategorized
| Tags:
Busted ,
drug bust murders ,
In Jail ,
incarcerated ,
Locked up ,
prositition ,
robbery
| 		 Leave a comment
Relationships and why they fail
The most important reason that relationships fail today is communication! Communication today is over ruled by passion and what it leads to. The importance of knowing who you are going to share your life with means nothing if a booty call was the foundation for the relationship.
The ideal of building a strong bond with the woman or man of your dreams is something that you must define! When we go through life searching for that mythical male or female, they all seem to fall short. For the true definition of a perfect woman and great relationship is more than words. Unfortunately if your relationship is based solely on the merits of a physical relationship 90% of the time, they just don’t last!
The most important thing that we all need is knowledge. That characteristic that we all possess as a man or woman is the ability to connect… You see when you know what you don’t want,  it makes it easier to find what you need… Relationships built on substance last a lifetime, while those built on minutes of pleasure just don’t last! When you take your time and and get to know the person then you have an opportunity to find true happiness…
Now lets face the facts, you have been living your life in the sign of insanity. You base all your relationships on the same script. When you keep doing the same thing and expect different results, that is insanity!
Communication is just not mental, its physical as well. Some men and women go through a life time hoping to change something about their mate and they end up settling for a life of unhappiness. We see it everyday when a man or woman walks away from a relationship that they have 10 or more years in that relationship.
So now that we know why relationships fail, is it safe to say that with time, effort and a laundry list of what we  want and don’t need would be a key to a successful one?
To see more of Whats on your mind
click here
July 5, 2011 | Categories:
Uncategorized
| Tags:
relationships ,
whats on your mind
| 		 Leave a comment
” Kterrl Search Engine”
search results
var googleSearchIframeName = "cse-search-results";
var googleSearchFormName = "cse-search-box";
var googleSearchFrameWidth = 800;
var googleSearchDomain = "www.google.com";
var googleSearchPath = "/cse";
Kterrls Post
July 2011
M
T
W
T
F
S
S
« Jun
Aug »
1 2 3
4 5 6 7 8 9 10
11 12 13 14 15 16 17
18 19 20 21 22 23 24
25 26 27 28 29 30 31
Create a free website or blog at WordPress.com . |
The Modularity Lite Theme .
Follow
Follow “Kterrl's Video Favorites”
Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.
Join 975 other followers
Build a website with WordPress.com
Add your thoughts here... (optional)
Post to
Cancel