shankart: PIET MONDRIAN
skip to main
|
skip to sidebar
shankart
Saturday, November 24, 2007
PIET MONDRIAN
'Mondrian', dress, Yves Saint Laurent, 1965. The rectilinear pattern of Broadway Boogie-Woogie evokes the streets of
New York City
Broadway Boogie-Woogie is a painting by
Piet Mondrian
completed in 1943, shortly after he moved to New York in 1940. Art critics consider Broadway Boogie-Woogie to be Mondrian's masterpiece, and a culmination of his aesthetic. Compared to his earlier work, the canvas is divided into a much larger number of squares. Although he spent most of his career creating abstract work, this painting is inspired by clear real-world examples: the city grid of
Manhattan , and the
boogie woogie
music to which Mondrian loved to dance. The painting is owned by the
Museum of Modern Art
in New York City. Composition with Yellow, Blue, and Red, 1921, oil on canvas, 72.5 x 69 cm,
Tate Gallery . London. I was quite curious of Mondrian. So I did a brief research on him- Piet Mondrian,
1924 Pieter Cornelis (Piet) Mondriaan, after
1912
Mondrian, (pronounced: Dutch
IPA : [pi:t 'mɔndria:n], later Pete Mon-dree-on,
IPA : [pi:t 'mɔndɹiɔn]) (b.
Amersfoort ,
Netherlands ,
March 7 ,
1872
— d.
New York City ,
February 1 ,
1944 ) was a Dutch painter. He was an important contributor to the
De Stijl
art movement and group, which was founded by
Theo van Doesburg . Despite being well-known, often-parodied and even trivialized, Mondrian's paintings exhibit a complexity that belies their apparent simplicity. He is best known for his
non-representational
paintings that he called "compositions", consisting of rectangular forms of red, yellow, blue, white or black, separated by black rectilinear lines. They are the result of a stylistic evolution that occurred over the course of nearly 30 years and continued beyond that point to the end by wikimedia
Posted by
art_corporate
at
3:28 AM
No comments:
Post a Comment
Older Post
Home
Subscribe to:
Post Comments (Atom)
Blog Archive
▼
2007
(2)
▼
November
(2)
PIET MONDRIAN
INSTALLATION ART FOR LIVING SPACE BY ANTON HENNING...
About Me
art_corporate
View my complete profile