A list of exemplary Greek Women around the world.
A list of exemplary Greek Women around the world.
This blog highlights the accomplishment of Greek women world wide and serves as an inspiration of Greek Pride and accomplishments in various sectors of society.
Monday, February 1, 2010
Maria Callas - Greek Opera Singer and accomplished Soprano
In today's blog entry I
would like to feature Maria Callas as an exemplary Greek women
who
is making her sisters proud across the world with her exceptional
endeavors as a fellow Greek women Maria Callas
( Greek :
Μαρία Κάλλας )
(December 2, 1923 – September 16, 1977) was an American-born
Greek
soprano
and one of the most renowned
opera
singers of the
20th century . She combined an impressive
bel
canto
technique, a wide-ranging voice, and great dramatic gifts. An
extremely versatile singer, her repertoire ranged from classical
opera
seria
to the bel canto operas of
Donizetti ,
Bellini
and
Rossini ; further, to the works of
Verdi
and
Puccini ; and, in her early career, to the music dramas of
Wagner . Her remarkable musical and dramatic talents led to
her being hailed as
La Divina .
Born in
New York City
and raised by an overbearing
mother, she received her musical education in
Greece
and
established her career in
Italy . Forced to deal with the exigencies of wartime
poverty and with
myopia
that left her nearly blind on stage, she
endured struggles and scandal over the course of her career. She turned
herself from a heavy woman into a svelte and glamorous one after a
mid-career weight loss , which might have
contributed to her
vocal decline
and the premature end of her
career. The press exulted in publicizing Callas's allegedly
temperamental behavior, her
supposed rivalry
with
Renata Tebaldi , and her love affair with
Aristotle Onassis . Her dramatic life and personal tragedy
have often overshadowed Callas the artist in the popular press. However,
her artistic achievements were such that
Leonard Bernstein
called her "The Bible of opera", [ 1 ]
and her influence so enduring that, in 2006,
Opera
News
wrote of her: "Nearly thirty years after her death, she's
still the definition of the diva as artist—and still one of classical
music's best-selling vocalists." [ 2 ] Family life, childhood
and move to Greece
According to her birth certificate, Maria Callas was born
Sophia
Cecelia Kalos [ 3 ]
at Flower Hospital (now the Terence Cardinal Cooke Health Care Center),
at 1249 Fifth Avenue in
Manhattan ,
on December 2, 1923 [ 4 ]
to Greek parents George Kalogeropoulos and Evangelia "Litsa" (sometimes
"Litza") Dimitriadou, though she was christened
Maria Anna Sofia
Cecilia Kalogeropoulou
– the genitive of the patronymic
Kalogeropoulos – ( Greek :
Μαρία
Άννα Σοφία Καικιλία Καλογεροπούλου ). Callas's father had
shortened the surname Kalogeropoulos first to "Kalos" and subsequently
to "Callas" in order to make it more manageable. [ 3 ]
George and Evangelia were an ill-matched couple from the beginning;
he was easy-going and unambitious, with no interest in the arts, while
his wife was vivacious, socially ambitious, and had held dreams of a
life in the arts for herself. [ 3 ]
The situation was aggravated by George's philandering and was improved
neither by the birth of a daughter named Yakinthi (later called Jackie)
in 1917 nor the birth of a son named Vassilis in 1920. Vassilis's death
from
meningitis
in Summer 1922 dealt another blow to
the marriage. In 1923, after realizing that Evangelia was pregnant
again, George made the unilateral decision to move his family to
America, a decision which Yakinthi recalled was greeted with Evangelia
"shouting hysterically" followed by George "slamming doors". [ 3 ]
The family left for America in July 1923 and settled in the
Astoria
neighborhood in the
borough
of
Queens .
Evangelia was convinced that her third child would be a boy; her
disappointment at the birth of another daughter was so great that she
refused to even look at her new baby for four days. [ 3 ]
Around age three, Maria's musical talents began to manifest themselves,
and after Evangelia discovered that her youngest daughter also had a
voice, she began pressuring "Mary" to sing. Callas would later recall,
"I was made to sing when I was only five, and I hated it." [ 3 ]
George was unhappy with his wife favoring their elder daughter as well
as the pressure put upon young Mary to sing and perform. [ 5 ]
The marriage continued to deteriorate and in 1937 Evangelia decided to
return to Athens with her two daughters. [ 3 ] Callas received her musical education in Athens. Initially, her
mother tried to enroll her at the prestigious
Athens Conservatoire , without success. At the
audition, her voice, still untrained, failed to impress, while the
conservatoire's director
Filoktitis
Oikonomidis
refused to accept her without her satisfying the
theoretic prerequisites ( solfege ).
In the summer of 1937, her mother visited
Maria Trivella
at the younger
Greek National Conservatoire ,
asking her to take Mary as a student for a modest fee. In 1957,
Trivella recalled her impression of "Mary, a very plump young girl,
wearing big glasses for her myopia":
The tone of the voice was warm, lyrical, intense; it swirled and
flared like a flame and filled the air with melodious reverberations
like a
carillon .
It was by any standards an amazing phenomenon, or rather it was a great
talent that needed control, technical training, and strict discipline
in order to shine with all its brilliance. [ 3 ]
Trivella agreed to tutor Callas completely, waiving her tuition fees,
but no sooner had Callas started her formal lessons and vocal exercises
than Trivella began to feel that Mary was not a
contralto ,
as she had been told, but a
dramatic
soprano . Subsequently, they began working on raising the
tessitura
of Mary's voice and to lighten its
timbre . [ 3 ]
Trivella recalled Mary as "A model student. Fanatical, uncompromising,
dedicated to her studies heart and soul. Her progress was phenomenal.
She studied five or six hours a day. ...Within six months, she was
singing the most difficult arias in the international opera repertoire
with the utmost musicality". [ 3 ]
On April 11, 1938, in her public debut, Callas ended the recital of
Trivella's class at the Parnassos music hall with a
duet
from
Tosca . [ 3 ]
Callas recalled that Trivella "had a French method, which was placing
the voice in the nose, rather nasal... and I had the problem of not
having low
chest tones , which is
essential in
bel canto ... And that's where I learned my
chest tones." [ 9 ]
However, when interviewed by Pierre Desgraupes on the French program
L'Invitee
Du Dimanche , Callas attributed the development of her chest voice
not to Trivella, but to her next teacher, the well-known Spanish
coloratura soprano
Elvira de Hidalgo . [ 10 ]
Callas studied with Trivella for two years before her mother secured
another audition at the Athens Conservatoire with de Hidalgo. Callas
auditioned with "Ocean, Thou Mighty Monster." De Hidalgo recalled
hearing "tempestuous, extravagant cascades of sounds, as yet
uncontrolled but full of drama and emotion". [ 3 ]
She agreed to take her as a pupil immediately, but Callas's mother
asked de Hidalgo to wait for a year, as Callas would be graduating from
the National Conservatoire and could begin working. On April 2, 1939,
Callas undertook the part of Santuzza in a student production of
Mascagni's
Cavalleria rusticana
at the Olympia
Theater, and in the fall of the same year she enrolled at the Athens
Conservatoire in Elvira de Hidalgo's class. [ 3 ]
Posted by
Greek Women United and Proud !
at
5:20 PM
No comments:
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share to Pinterest
Saturday, January 2, 2010
Loula Loi Alafoyiannis - Accomplished Greek Businesswoman and Cultural Role Model for all Greek Women
In today's blog entry I would like to feature Loula Loi Alafoyiannis as an exemplary Greek women who is making her sisters proud across the world with her exceptional endeavors as a fellow Greek women.
Loula Loi is the President of the Euro-American Women Council (EAWC) that has fostered relationship and development of business women across the world. She is also the former vice-president of Nasdaq International. In her role with EAWC , she has accomplished many accolades that makes her a perfect inspiration for all Greek women around the world. We will not speak further about her accomplishments. Instead, we would let The Daily Kos speak of her great efforts that brings tears and make us wish her success as fellow Greeks. Find below an article and image of Ms. Alafoyiannis from the Kos that reserves all the copyright for images and the content. Source: http://www.dailykos.com/story/2009/12/27/95834/606?new=true The Euro-American Women Council's
Infatigable Loula Loi Alafoyiannis I first met the Euro-American Women’s Council’s ( EAWC ) founder, global president and
C.E.O. when, following the Tsunami, she presented the organization I
founded, Orphans International Worldwide ( OIWW )
a check for $42,000 for the children in Sri Lanka.
I was impressed by this strong woman, her inexhaustible energy, and
her connectivity.
She struck me as a thought leader and global citizen.
Her name was Loula Loi Alafoyiannis. The Euro-American Women’s Council’s mission is to strengthen the
status of women in the global marketplace by building strategic
alliances between women in business and prominent leaders across the
United States, Europe, Latin America, and other places of the world.
Through EAWC, women of diverse backgrounds and accomplishments work
together to advance women’s access to positions of leadership and to
pave the way for the next generations of women business leaders. Core to EAWC’s mission are:
Fostering
bilateral cultural relations that lead to
social and economic growth and development.
Promoting
environmental protection through enhanced
technology.
Celebrating
women’s diversity and accomplishments,
and promoting equality in the business arena.
Creating
a platform of mutual respect, cooperation
and shared goals between women of the United States and Europe.
Mentoring
and educating the youth to successfully
lead in a rapidly changing, technology-driven global society with
respect to the universal values.
Founded in 1996, EAWC’s mission is to strengthen the status of women
in the global marketplace by building strategic alliances between women
in business and prominent leaders across the United States and Europe.
Through EAWC, women of diverse backgrounds and accomplishments work
together to advance women’s access to positions of leadership and to
pave the way for the next generation of women business leaders. Prior to EAWC, Loula served as the Vice President of the United
Hellenic American National Council, which she co-founded with Mr. John
Alafoyiannis.
The Council’s goal was to build bridges between Greek and American
entrepreneurial communities and to advance the cause of women’s rights
in the arenas of business and education.
The Council has sponsored numerous White House luncheons for
prominent and influential businesswomen throughout the United States and
Greece.
In addition to her business activities, Loula, widely recognized for
her strategic planning and interpersonal skills, has been highly active
in public relations, event management and fundraising activities in the
political arena.
She has served as an advisor to former U.S. Congressman Joseph P.
Kennedy (MA) and supports Joe in fundraising and public relations
activities for the Greek-American and other minority communities. In November 1989, as a Board Member of the Finance Committee of the
Robert F. Kennedy Memorial, Loula promoted the book,
Robert F.
Kennedy: In His Own Words , in Athens, Greece.
In 1991, she founded and organized the Best Buddies Foundation in
Greece with Anthony Kennedy Shriver, its Global President and C.E.O. In 2001, Loula became Coalition Partner (Greece/Europe) of the
political organization Women Impacting Public Policy (WIPP).
In 2000, she served as an ethnic group public relations team leader
for Former First Lady and Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton. She was also
instrumental in planning Hillary’s visit to Greece, on the occasion of
the 100th anniversary of the Olympic Games.
Loula also served as a special speaker at the National Foundation for
Women Legislators in New Orleans. In the mid-80’s she served as a
public relations and press spokesperson for Greek-Americans for the
Democratic Party.
In 2002, Loula was instrumental in the production of the two
documentaries
Visions of Greece , made on behalf of WLIW21. She
was in charge of pinpointing the prominent historical places and tourist
attractions for the film.
Top business and government dignitaries have found her to be an
invaluable resource of support and counsel, including former Governor of
New York Mario Cuomo, U.S. Senators Paul Sarbanes and Hillary Rodham
Clinton, U.S. Congress member and President/Co-Founder of the Greek
Caucus Committee Carolyn B. Maloney, Deputy Secretary of Education and
Culture Patricia Harrison, and U.S. Congressman Gary Ackermann.
Other thought leaders and global citizens in Loula's circle include
WIPP’s Terry Neese; Phyllis Hill-Slater, President, Chair of New York
State Women Enterprises and member of the Bush-Cheney Transition Team;
Jane Applegate, CNN Correspondent; Dr. Shirley Strum-Kenny, President of
the State University of New York at Stony Brook; and Tina Knight,
President of Knight Computer Cables, Inc.
Loula currently serves as a member of the Human Rights Advisory
Council of New York. Other affiliations include the Daughters of Roumeli
non-profit organization, which she co-founded and served as former
president and the Hermes Athletic Club of New York. Her notable background and accomplishments have granted her numerous
accolades and awards. In recognition of being one of the most creative
minds of leading women entrepreneurs of the world, Loula was awarded
IBM’s prestigious
Crown Award , which was presented by Ms.
Cherie Piebes, Global Market Executive Director for Women Entrepreneurs.
She has earned the distinguished Honorary Citizen of Bacu (Azerbaijan
Republic ) award as a result of her pioneering efforts to provide
entrepreneurial training to citizens of the former Soviet Union.
For her tireless humanitarian efforts, she has received awards from
AMMJE ( Asociacion Mexicana de Mujeres Jefas de Empresa ), the
Village Reform Democratic Club of New York and from Congress for her
human rights activities in Cyprus and the former U.S.S.R.
Loula was also named
Woman of the Year
by the Boys Club of
Queens and was awarded the
Teacher of the Year
award by the
Greek Orthodox Church’s former Archbishop of North and South America,
Iakovos.
Additionally, Loula has appeared in the
New York Daily News ’
prestigious People’s Page and has been featured as a
Four Career
Woman
in various Greek and Greek-American publications.
With high sensitivity to suffering people, as she tries hard to gain
the bet of life Loula has devoted her life to assisting seriously ill
and cancer-affected, especially, low-income children from Greece.
Collaborating with various hospitals in New York she helps the
children to obtain the best medical care possible and to deal with the
human dimensions of their illness as well.
Loula holds a degree in education and served as an elementary school
director for two decades in New York. She is fluent in English, Greek,
and Russian.
Loula is married to John and they have jewels: daughter Rania, son
Constantine, daughter-in-law Nina, son John-Nicholas Jr.,
daughter-in-law Nadia and the crown jewel lovely granddaughter
Isabella-Rania.
Posted by
Greek Women United and Proud !
at
3:00 PM
No comments:
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share to Pinterest
Labels:
EAWC ,
Exemplary Greek Women ,
Loula
Wednesday, August 12, 2009
Elena Paparizou -Greek
Celeberity
In today's blog entry I
would like to feature Elena Paparizou as an exemplary Greek women
who is making her sisters proud across the world with her exceptional
endeavors as a fellow Greek women Eleni "Elena" Paparizou [ 1 ]
( Greek :
Έλενα Παπαρίζου ,
pronounced
[ˈelena papaˈrizu] ; born 31
January 1982) often known internationally as
Helena Paparizou , is
a
Greek
singer
and occasional
songwriter ,
who was born and raised in
Sweden .
She began her career in 1999 as a member of the duo
Antique , while she also worked briefly as a model for a
Swedish-Greek brand. After rising to recognition in Greece following
their participation in the
Eurovision Song Contest 2001 ,
they witnessed commercial success until Paparizou embarked on a solo
career in 2003 and released her debut album
Protereotita
(2004), with emphasis on more pop sounds in addition to the more
traditional Greek
laïko
genre. Paparizou then won the
Eurovision Song Contest 2005
for
Greece
for the first time in the contest's history, with the song " My
Number One ", something which significantly contributed to her
career. Following the Eurovision success, her album was certified double
Platinum and received two Arion Music Awards, while she also briefly
attempted a career beyond Greece with English-language material to mild
success. Her three subsequent albums
Iparhi
Logos
(2006),
The Game of Love
(2006) and
Vrisko To Logo Na Zo
(2008) all reached Platinum
sales and received some accolades, with the former receiving another
Arion. Her fifth studio album,
Giro Apo T'Oneiro
was released in March 2010. In March
2010,
Alpha
TV
ranked Paparizou at number 14 on their list of the "30 Most
Successful Greek Female Artist of the Past 50 Years", based on the most
certifications awarded by IFPI, totaling seven Platinum and four Gold
records. She has been certified for the sales of at least 150 thousand
albums and a further 50 thousand singles by IFPI Greece Vocal style
Especially following the disbandment of Antique, Paparizou's voice
was characterized as possessing a "deep, sensual" tone. [ 85 ]
Paparizou possesses a
mezzo-soprano
vocal
range ; from her Antique years up until 2005, she performed in a
vocal range of C 4
to B ♭ 6 . [ 86 ]
Some critics have argued whether pop or laiko material best suits the
artist vocally; both Mastorakis and Zervas of Music Corner maintained
that she was passable in both, [ 80 ] [ 81 ]
with Zervas being most commending of her vocal abilities in the
dance-pop genre, adding that in her live covers of " Don't
Speak " and " Just Walk Away " she gave her best vocal
performance. [ 81 ]
Nitro
criticized Paparizou's musical abilities overall, saying
that if the world was fair, it would be widely acknowledged that she
"has simply a pretty face, while the voice behind that belongs to a less
pretty singer." [ 87 ]
In 2008, Evianna Nikoleri noticed an improvement in Paparizou's voice,
suggesting that
Vrisko To Logo Na Zo
contained her best vocal
performance on an album. [ 77 ]
Makis Kalamaris, who believed the album to be quite mediocre, saying it
was based mostly on "beatless rock scratches and mellow ballads", said
that Paparizou saved most of the material just with her interpretation
of it. [ 78 ]
However, in a number of tracks, most notably from that album,
Paparizou's vocals were criticized for oversinging in an attempt to show
her full volume and yelling excessively as a result of pushing her
range to reach high notes. [ 77 ] [ 78 ]
This was most notably observed on the tracks "Eisai I Foni" and "Den
Tha 'Mai 'Do", with Nikoleri saying that with the idea that yelling is
synonymous with singing well she was doing her voice injustice. [ 77 ] Paparizou at one point during her youth she followed
Buddhism ,
but eventually began following the
Greek Orthodox
religion once again as
she believes it suits her better. [ 20 ]
She has been involved in a long term relationship with fellow
Swedish-born Greek Toni Mavridis, [ 105 ]
whom she was introduced to as a musician by a friend of her sister's at
a restaurant called Mykonos when she was only 17, while Mavridis is 11
years her senior. [ 4 ] [ 7 ]
Mavridis became an
impresario
for Antique and has written songs on
all of Paparizou's solo albums, while he also serves as her manager.
Mavridis had approached Paparizou for only one month before their
relationship commenced and she left her parents' home to live with him
in Stockholm. The two had a traditional Greek engagement celebration
with their relatives on December 24, 2000 and have been engaged since; [ 4 ]
however, Paparizou has said that Mavridis has never officially proposed
to her and that she would prefer that he do this in the Western
tradition of going down on one knee. [ 106 ]
They bought a home together in the
Athens
suburb of
Glyfada
in 2006. [ 7 ] [ 107 ]
Mavridis has suggested the idea of the two getting married in
Las Vegas, Nevada , [ 108 ]
while Paparizou has also already chosen a koumbara, her good friend
Roxani. [ 7 ]
On many occasions, Paparizou has commented on starting a family with
Mavridis; in
Celebrity , Paparizou was quoted as saying "I believe
that family is the most natural thing, the thing I want in my life. And
what is my preference? To not have kids so I can continue my career?
One day it will end. I cannot be on stage everyday, like I am now at
25," [ 109 ]
while in
Nitro
she said "No [Mavridis is not my first
relationship], but I think he is my last. He is the person I want to
have kids with. I think he is the best father they could have. If I
don't have kids with him, then I will adopt." [ 7 ]
Posted by
Greek Women United and Proud !
at
4:05 PM
No comments:
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share to Pinterest
Wednesday, July 1, 2009
Melina Mercouri -Greek Soprano Singer
In today's blog entry I would like to feature Melina Mercouri as an exemplary Greek women who is making her sisters proud across the world with her exceptional endeavors as a fellow Greek women Melina Mercouri (Greek: Μελίνα Μερκούρη), born as Maria Amalia Mercouris (October 18, 1920, Athens, Greece – March 6, 1994, New York City, New York) was a Greek actress, singer and politician. As an actress she made her film debut in Stella (1955) and met international success with her performances in Never on Sunday, Phaedra, Topkapi and Promise at Dawn. She won the award for Best Actress at the 1960 Cannes Film Festival, and she was also nominated for an Academy Award, three Golden Globe Awards, and two BAFTA Awards. A political activist during the Greek military junta of 1967–1974, she became a member of the Hellenic Parliament in 1977 and the first female Minister for Culture of Greece in 1981. Mercouri was the person who, in 1983, conceived and proposed the programme of the European Capital of Culture, which has been established by the European Union since 1985. She was a strong advocate for the return of the Parthenon Marbles, that were removed from the Parthenon and are now displayed in the British Museum, to Athens. Her Early Life Maria Amalia Mercouris was born in Athens in 1920, the daughter of Stamatis Mercouris, a former cavalry officer, member of Parliament for the Democratic Socialist Party of Greece and former Minister for Public Order of Greece, and Eirini Lappa, originated from a prominent family of Athens. Spyridon Merkouris, her paternal grandfather, was one of the most successful Mayors of Athens and played a major role in her early life. When she completed her secondary education, she was admitted to the National Theatre's Drama School after reciting a poem by Kostas Karyotakis. Dimitris Rontiris was her teacher and she graduated in 1944. Aged 21, she married her first husband, Panos Harokopos, a wealthy landowner; they divorced in 1962. Her International Success Her first movie was the Greek language film Stella (1955), directed by Michael Cacoyannis (also the director of Zorba the Greek). The film received special praise at the 1956 Cannes Film Festival, where she met for first time the American film director Jules Dassin, with whom she would share her life, as they got married in 1966, and career. As a start, the next year she starred in the latter's He Who Must Die and other Dassin's film followed featuring Mercouri, such as The Law (1959). [citation needed] She became well-known to international audiences when she starred in Never on Sunday (1960), in which Dassin was the director and co-star. For this film, Mercouri received the Best Actress Award at the 1960 Cannes Film Festival and was nominated for the Academy Award for Best Actress and the BAFTA Award for Best Actress in a Leading Role. [citation needed] After her first major international success, she went on to star in Phaedra (1962), for which she was nominated again for the BAFTA Award and the Golden Globe Award for Best Actress in Motion Picture Drama. The recognition of her acting talent did not stop though, as her role in Topkapi (1964) granted her one more nomination, this time for the Golden Globe Award for Best Actress in Motion Picture Musical or Comedy. Mercouri worked with other famous directors as well, such as Joseph Losey, Vittorio De Sica, Ronald Neame, Carl Foreman, Norman Jewison, and starred in films like Spanish language The Uninhibited by Juan Antonio Bardem. She continued her stage career in the Greek production of Tennessee Williams's Sweet Bird of Youth (1960), under the direction of Karolos Koun. In 1967, she played the leading role in Illya Darling at Broadway, for which she was nominated for the Tony Award for Best Performance by a Leading Actress in a Musical, while her performance in Promise at Dawn (1970) gave her another Golden Globe Award nomination. Melina Mercouri concentrated on her stage career for the following years, playing in the Greek productions of The Threepenny Opera and, for a second time, Sweet Bird of Youth, in addition to the ancient Greek tragedies Medea and Oresteia. She retired from film acting in 1978, when she played in her last film, A Dream of Passion, directed by her husband Jules Dassin. Her last performance on stage was in the opera Pylades at the Athens Concert Hall in 1992, portraying Clytemnestra. Her Death Melina Mercouri died in March 6, 1994, at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, New York City, from lung cancer, aged 73. She was survived by her husband, Jules Dassin. She received a state funeral with Prime Minister's honors at the First Cemetery of Athens four days later. Thousands attended her funeral.
Posted by
Greek Women United and Proud !
at
2:18 PM
No comments:
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share to Pinterest
Home
Subscribe to:
Posts (Atom)
Followers
Blog Archive
▼
2010
(2)
▼
February
(1)
Maria Callas - Greek Opera Singer and accomplished...
►
January
(1)
►
2009
(2)
►
August
(1)
►
July
(1)
Ethereal template. Powered by
Blogger .