Co-Generation Energy - 		EB5-Malibu
EB5-Malibu
EB-5 Rules
EB-5 Investor Visa Qualifications
RIMS II Jobs Created
TEA Map Areas
Rural Area
Protect Your Assets in Real Estate
BioEnergy
What is Bio Energy
Bio Fuel
What is Bio Fuel
EB-5 Broadcast Center
Exemptions
EB-5 News
USA Supports Bio Energy
Co-Generation Energy
Contact Us
USAID
CA
What is Co-Generation Energy?
Co-generation  (also  combined heat and power ,  CHP ) is the use of a  heat engine  or a  power station to simultaneously generate both  electricity  and useful  heat . All power plants emit a certain amount of heat during  electricity generation . This can be released into the  natural environment  through  cooling towers ,  flue gas , or by other means. By contrast CHP captures some or all of the by-product heat for  heating  purposes, either very close to the plant, or—especially in  Scandinavia  and eastern  Europe —as hot water for  district heating  with temperatures ranging from approximately 80 to 130 °C. This is also called Combined Heat and Power District Heating or CHPDH. Small CHP plants are an example of  decentralized energy . [1] The viability of CHP (sometimes termed utilisation factor), especially in smaller CHP installations, depends upon a good baseload of operation, both in terms of an on-site (or near site) electrical demand and heat demand. In practice, an exact match between the heat and electricity needs rarely exists. A CHP plant can either meet the need for heat ( heat driven operation ) or be run as a  power plant with some use of its waste heat, the latter being less advantageous in terms of its utilisation factor and thus its overall efficiency. The viability can be greatly increased where opportunities for  Trigeneration  exist. In such cases the heat from the CHP plant is also used as a primary energy source to deliver cooling by means of an  absorption chiller . CHP is most efficient when the heat can be used on site or very close to it . Overall efficiency is reduced when the heat must be transported over longer distances. This requires heavily insulated pipes, which are expensive and inefficient; whereas electricity can be transmitted along a comparatively simple wire, and over much longer distances for the same energy loss. In the  United States ,  Con Edison  distributes 66 billion kilograms of 350 °F/180 °C steam each year through its seven cogeneration plants to 100,000 buildings in  Manhattan —the biggest steam district in the United States. The peak delivery is 10 million pounds per hour (corresponding to approx. 2.5 GW) [2] [3]  ( This steam distribution system  is the reason for the steaming manholes often seen in "gritty" New York movies.) Other major cogeneration companies in the U.S. include  Recycled Energy Development [4]  and leading advocates include  Tom Casten  and  Amory Lovins . By-product heat at moderate temperatures (212-356°F/100-180°C) can also be used in  absorption chillers  for cooling. A plant producing electricity, heat and cold is sometimes called  trigeneration  or more generally:  polygeneration  plant. [5]  Cogeneration is a  thermodynamically efficient  use of  fuel . In separate production of electricity some energy must be rejected as  waste heat , but in cogeneration this  thermal energy  is put to good use. Energy Generation Municipal solid waste can be used to generate energy . Several technologies have been developed that make the processing of MSW for energy generation cleaner and more economical than ever before, including landfill gas capture, combustion, pyrolysis, gasification, and  plasma arc gasification . [5]  While older waste incineration plants emitted high levels of pollutants, recent regulatory changes and new technologies have significantly reduced this concern. EPA regulations in 1995 and 2000 under the  Clean Air Act  have succeeded in reducing emissions of dioxins from waste-to-energy  facilities by more than 99 percent below 1990 levels, while mercury emissions have been by over 90 percent. [6]  The EPA noted these improvements in 2003, citing waste-to-energy as a power source “with less environmental impact than almost any other source of electricity.” [7 What are Fuel Sources of Co-Generation  Energy Municipal solid waste  ( MSW ), commonly known as trash or garbage, is a  waste type consisting of everyday items we consume and discard. It predominantly includes food wastes, yard wastes, containers and product packaging, and other miscellaneous inorganic wastes from residential, commercial, institutional, and industrial sources. [ 1 ]  Examples of inorganic wastes are appliances, newspapers, clothing, food scrapes, boxes, disposable tableware, office and classroom paper, furniture, wood pallets, rubber tires, and cafeteria wastes. Municipal solid waste does not include industrial wastes, agricultural wastes, and sewage sludge. [ 2 ]  The collection is performed by the  municipality  within a given area. They are in either solid or semisolid form. The term  residual waste  relates to waste left from household sources containing materials that have not been separated out or sent for reprocessing. [ 3 ]  Following are the different types of wastes. Biodegradable waste :  food and kitchen waste ,  green waste ,  paper  (can also be recycled). Recyclable  material: paper,  glass ,  bottles ,  cans ,  metals , certain  plastics , etc. Inert  waste:  construction and demolition waste ,  dirt ,  rocks , debris. Composite wastes: waste  clothing , Tetra Packs, waste plastics such as toys. Domestic  hazardous waste  (also called "household hazardous waste") &  toxic waste : medication ,  e-waste ,  paints ,  chemicals ,  light bulbs ,  fluorescent tubes ,  spray cans ,  fertilizer  and  pesticide  containers,  batteries ,  shoe polish . Briefings: The Role of District Energy/Combined Heat and Power in Energy and Climate Policy Solutions  Environmental and Energy Study Institute Briefing [ hide ] v   ·   d   ·   e Electricity generation Concepts Availability factor   ·   Baseload   ·   Black start   ·   Capacity factor   ·   Demand factor   ·   Demand management   ·   EROEI   ·   Grid storage   ·   Intermittency   · Load following   ·   Peak demand   ·   Repowering   ·   Spark spread Sources Nonrenewable Coal   ·   Fossil fuel power plant   ·   Natural gas   ·   Petroleum   ·   Nuclear   ·   Oil shale Renewable Biomass   ·   Geothermal   ·   Hydro   ·   Marine   ·   Solar   ·   Wind Technology AC power   ·   Cogeneration   ·   Combined cycle   ·   Cooling tower   ·   Induction generator   ·   Micro CHP   ·   Microgeneration   ·   Rankine cycle   · Three-phase electric power   ·   Virtual power plant Distribution Demand response   ·   Distributed generation   ·   Dynamic demand   ·   Electricity distribution   ·   Electrical grid   ·   High-voltage direct current   · Load management   ·   Pumped hydro   ·   Negawatts   ·   Smart grid   ·   Substation   ·   Super grid   ·   TSO   ·   Transmission tower   ·   Utility pole Policies Carbon offset   ·   Coal phase out   ·   Ecotax   ·   Energy subsidies   ·   Feed-in tariff   ·   Net metering   ·   Pigovian tax   ·   Renewable Energy Certificates   · Renewable energy payments   ·   Renewable energy policy Categories:   Electric power distribution   ·   Electricity economics   ·   Power station technology   ·   Portals:   Energy   ·   Sustainable development
EB-5 Malibu Center Investor Investments/ Recession Secure
✕