Author Biography
Synopsis of Slaughterhouse V
Synopsis of Cat’s Cradle
Key characters in Slaughterhouse V
Key characters in Cat’s Cradle
Key conflicts in Slaughterhouse V
Key conflicts in Cat’s Cradle
Parts of plot Slaughterhouse V
Parts of plot Cat’s Cradle
Critical Biographical read of Slaughterhouse V
Critical Biographical read of Cat’s Cradle
Historical Read of Slaughterhouse V
Historical Read of Cat’s Cradle
Socio-Economic read of Slaughterhouse V
Socio-Economic read of Cat’s Cradle
Formalist Read with lit devices in Slaughterhouse V
Formalist Read with lit devices in Cat’s Cradle
Existentialist Critical Essay
Reader-Based Critical Essay
20 AP style questions with text
Works Cited
Kurt Vonnegut was born to fourth-generation
German-American
parents (Kurt Vonnegut, Sr., and Edith
née
Lieber), son and grandson in the
Indianapolis
firm Vonnegut
& Bohn. He attended
Cornell University , where he served as
assistant managing editor and associate editor for the student newspaper, the
Cornell Daily Sun ,
and majored in Chemistry. [4]
While attending Cornell, he was a member of the
Delta Upsilon
Fraternity, following in the footsteps of his father. While at
Cornell,
Vonnegut enlisted in the U.S. Army. The army sent him to the Carnegie Institute
of Technology (now
Carnegie Mellon University ) and the
University of Tennessee
to study mechanical
engineering. On May 14, 1944,
Mothers' Day ,
his mother committed suicide.
Kurt Vonnegut's
experience as a soldier and prisoner of war had a profound influence on his
later work. As a private with the
106th Infantry Division ,
Vonnegut was cut off from his battalion along with five other battalion scouts
who wandered behind enemy lines for several days until captured by
Wehrmacht
troops on December 14, 1944. [7]
Imprisoned in
Dresden ,
Vonnegut was chosen as a leader of the POWs because he spoke some German. After
insulting some German soldiers that were guarding him he was beaten and had his
position as leader taken away. While in
Dresden ,
he witnessed the
fire bombing of Dresden , a city nick-named
" Florence
of the
Elbe ,"
in February 1945, which destroyed most of the city.
Dresden
was selected as a target, but had no
particular military significance. Vonnegut was one of a group of American
prisoners of war to survive the attack in an underground slaughterhouse
meatlocker used by the Germans as an ad hoc detention facility. Vonnegut said
the aftermath of the attack was "utter destruction"carnage
unfathomable;" In "Slaughterhouse Five," he recalls that the
remains of the city resembled the surface of the moon. The Germans put the
surviving POWs to work, breaking into basements and bomb shelters to gather
bodies for mass burial, while German civilians cursed and threw rocks at them.
Eventually, as Vonnegut remarked, "there were too many corpses to bury. So
instead the Germans sent in troops with flamethrowers. All these civilians'
remains were burned to ashes." This experience was the inspiration for one
of his most famous novels,
Slaughterhouse-Five , and is a central theme
in at least six other books. Vonnegut was repatriated by
Red Army
troops in May 1945 at the Saxony-Czechoslovakian border.
Upon returning to
America , he was awarded a
Purple Heart
for what he called a "ludicrously negligible wound,"
later writing in
Timequake
that he was given the decoration after suffering a case of
"frostbite".
After the war, Vonnegut
attended the
University of Chicago
as a graduate student in
anthropology and also worked as a police reporter at the
City News Bureau of Chicago . According to
Vonnegut in
Bagombo Snuff Box , the university rejected
his first thesis on the necessity of accounting for the similarities between
Cubist
painters and
the leaders of late 19th Century
Native American
uprisings,
saying it was "unprofessional." He left
Chicago
to work in
Schenectady ,
New York ,
in public relations for
General Electric , where his brother Bernard
worked in the research department. The
University
of
Chicago
later accepted his novel
Cat's Cradle
as his thesis, citing its anthropological content and awarded him the M.A.
degree in 1971. On the verge of abandoning writing, Vonnegut was offered a
teaching job at the
University of Iowa
Writers' Workshop . While he was there,
Cat's
Cradle
became a best-seller, and he began
Slaughterhouse-Five , now considered one of
the best American novels of the 20th Century.
After returning from World War II, he married
his childhood sweetheart, Jane Marie Cox, writing about their courtship in
several of his short stories. The couple separated in 1970. He did not divorce
Cox until 1979, but from 1970 Vonnegut lived with the woman who would later
become his second wife, photographer
Jill Krementz .
Krementz and Vonnegut were married after the divorce from Cox was finalized.
Vonnegut suffered smoke inhalation and was hospitalized in critical condition
for four days. He survived, but his personal archives were destroyed. After
leaving the hospital, he recuperated in
Northampton, Massachusetts . Vonnegut
smoked unfiltered
Pall Mall
cigarettes, a habit he referred to as
a "classy way to commit suicide." Vonnegut died on April 11, 2007 in
Manhattan ,
following a fall at his
Manhattan
home several weeks earlier which resulted in irreversible brain injuries. He
was 84 years old at the time of his death.
Slaughterhouse-Five
is the story of Billy Pilgrim, a common
non-heroic man who has become “unstuck in time.”
He travels back and forth in time, visiting
his birth, death, and all the moments in between repeatedly and out of
order.
The novel is framed be Chapters
One and Ten, in which Vonnegut himself talks about the difficulties of writing
the novel and the effects of
Dresden
on his own life.
In between, Billy
Pilgrim’s life is given to us out of order and in small fragments.
Billy
is born in 1922 in
Ilium ,
New York .
He grows into an awkward young man, studying briefly at the Ilium School
of Optometry before he is drafted.
After
military training, he is sent to Europe right in the middle of the
Battle
of the Bulge.
He is captured behind enemy lines; before his
capture is the first time he time trips.
Billy
and the other American POWs are temporarily shipped to a camp full of dying
Russians and British officers.
The
Americans then are moved to
Dresden ,
a beautiful German city that has “no major industries and no significant
military presence”.
No one expects
Dresden
to be bombed.
But in the span of one night in February of
1945,
Dresden
is bombed until almost nothing is left and 130,000 people die.
Billy and the other POWs wait out the bombing
in a meat cellar, hence the title,
Slaughterhouse-Five .
The next day at noon, they came out and found
a landscape that looks like the surface of the moon.
There is no food or water, but soon the
authorities round up POWs to excavate the city for bodies.
When that work is over, Billy and the other
men return to a stable to wait out the rest of the war.
In May, Russians take the area and Billy is repatriated.
He
goes back to
Ilium
to finish optometry
school.
After getting engaged to the
daughter of the school’s owner, Billy has a mental breakdown and is committed
to a veteran’s hospital.
There, he is
introduced to the science fiction of Kilgore Trout by a fellow patient.
After his is released, he marries
Valencia
as planned.
His father is wealthy, and
with a little help from him, Billy grows rich.
Billy and
Valencia
have two children.
On the night of his
daughter’s wedding, Billy is kidnapped by aliens from the planet
Tralfamadore.
The Tralfamadorians exist
in the fourth dimension, and consequently they have a completely different view
of time.
For them, all moments happen
simultaneously and always.
They take him
to their world and put him in a zoo, where he mates with an actress called
Montana Wildhack.
Using a time warp,
they return him to earth almost immediately after the moment that he left, so
no one notices that he has been missing for months.
He says nothing about the events until he
suffers head injuries in a plane crash.
His wife dies almost immediately afterward.
After he goes home, he runs off to
New York
and goes on a
radio talk show to talk about his alien abduction experiences and the
Tralfamadorian concept of time.
His
daughter, Barbara, just twenty-one years old, suddenly motherless and with a
father who appears to be mentally unbalanced, takes care of Billy but feels a
great deal of resentment and frustration.
Billy
claims to know how he will die.
In 1976,
after the
U.S.
is split into
many nations and
Chicago
is hydrogen-bombed “by angry chinamen,” Billy is killed by a high-powered laser
gun.
The narrator of
Cat's Cradle,
John, once set out to write a book,
titled
The Day the World Ended,
about the
day the atomic bomb was dropped on
Hiroshima .
For purposes of research, he wrote to Newt Hoenikker, the midget son of Felix
Hoenikker, the Nobel prize-winning physicist and one of the fathers of the
atomic bomb. He asked Newt to describe what he remembered from the day the bomb
devastated
Hiroshima .
Newt replied to say that he was only six years old when the bomb was dropped.
He remembers playing with his toy trucks while his father played cat's cradle
with a piece of string.
Newt explained that Felix never showed any
interest in people, so when Felix sat down to play with him that day, it was
highly unusual. Felix looked so huge, ugly, and frightening when he tried to
show Newt the cat's cradle that Newt fled the house in tears to sit with his
brother. Shortly after Newt replied to John's letter, the newspapers reported
Newt's engagement to Zinka, a Russian midget dancer and rumored Soviet spy.
John traveled to
Ilium , the town where the
Hoenikkers lived during World War II, to continue researching his book. In
Ilium , John met Asa Breed, Felix's former supervisor at
the Research Laboratory.
Asa gave John a
tour of the Research Laboratory while John interviewed him. Asa praised Felix's
ability to put his analytical, scientific mind to any task. Once, a general
asked Felix to produce a solution to mud, a constant problem for troops on the
move. Felix theorized the existence of an isotope of water, which he named
ice-nine,
that was solid at room temperature.
Even the smallest seed of
ice-nine
dropped
into a quagmire would solidify the mud and solve the problem. John, realizing
that such an action could easily lead to the freezing of all water on earth,
nervously asked if Felix had actually succeeded in creating
ice-nine,
a deadlier threat to life on earth than
the atom bomb. Asa denied it, but he angrily ended the interview because he
sensed that John thought scientists were cold-hearted and dangerous.
Unbeknownst to John, Felix had indeed created
ice-nine,
without keeping records of his discovery. Shortly before he died, on Christmas
Eve at
Cape Cod , he showed the isotope to his
children. The Hoenikker siblings divided the
ice-nine
among themselves. Frank used it to buy himself a comfortable job as Major
General on the island
republic
of
San Lorenzo . Angela
traded hers in exchange for marriage to the handsome Harrison Conners, a
scientist employed in top-secret weapons research for the
United States . Zinka stole Newt's
share of
ice-nine
for the Soviet
government. Meanwhile, John was hired to write an article about Julian Castle,
a multi- millionaire philanthropist living on
San Lorenzo .
Angela and Newt also occupied the plane; they were en route to a celebration of
Frank's engagement to Mona, the beautiful adopted daughter of "Papa"
Monzano, the island's dictator. All of
San Lorenzo 's
residents were practitioners of Bokononism, a religion created by Bokonon.
San Lorenzo
had a tumultuous history, conquered and
claimed by various nations at various times. The island was completely
worthless. When McCabe and Bokonon asserted their authority, no one intervened.
McCabe and Bokonon quickly realized that no amount of legal and economic reform
would provide the island's residents with a good standard of living. Instead,
Bokonon offered the inhabitants of the island comfort through the creation of
an eponymous religion based on happy lies. At Bokonon's request, McCabe outlawed
Bokononism and made its practice punishable by death. Thus, outlawed, the
religion gave excitement and a comprehensible meaning to the lives of the
island's impoverished masses. Every ruler since then, including, Papa Monzano,
participated in the charade. On the island, Monzano, stricken with terminal
cancer, named Frank his successor. Uninterested in the responsibilities of the
job, Frank asked John to take his place as
San Lorenzo 's
next President. John refused the position until Frank told him that he would
get to marry Mona as part of the bargain. Monzano gave his blessing to the plan
and wished them luck before taking the Bokononist last rites. During the
ceremony in honor of
San Lorenzo 's Hundred
Martyrs to Democracy, John planned to announce his assumption of the
Presidency. During the ceremony, Monzano's attending physician, Dr. von
Koenigswald informed him that Monzano had committed suicide. Upon looking at
the body, John realized that Monzano's condition could only have been caused by
swallowing
ice-nine
and that, by extension,
Felix's experiments to create the isotope had been successful. When John
demanded that Frank, Newt, and Angela come to Monzano's bedroom, they confessed
that they had divided Felix's awful creation among themselves after he died,
though they couldn't explain why. They set about cleaning the room by melting
the fragments of
ice-nine.
They decided to
take a break before burning the bodies to go watch the ceremony for the Hundred
Martyrs. During the ceremony, a plane crashed into the cliffs above Monzano's
castle. A landslide ensued, taking half the castle along with Monzano's body
into the sea. All the water of the world became
ice-nine
within seconds. Shortly after the disaster, most of the island's survivors,
including Mona, committed suicide. John, Frank, Newt, and the
Crosbys
survived for six months. John wrote this narrative,
Cat's Cradle,
as a record of what had occurred,
while Newt painted, Hazel sewed, Lowe cooked, and Frank studied ants. Bokonon
finished writing the
Books of Bokonon,
all
the while commenting on human stupidity .
Key
Characters:
Ø
Billy
Pilgrim  -  A World War II veteran,
POW
survivor of the firebombing of
Dresden , prospering optometrist, husband, and
father. Billy Pilgrim is the protagonist of the novel who believes he has “come
unstuck in time.” He walks through a door at one moment in his life and
suddenly finds himself in another time and place. His fragmented experience of
time structures the novel as short episodic vignettes and shows how the
difficulty of recounting traumatic experiences can require unusual literary
techniques.
Ø
Kurt
Vonnegut  -  The novel's author and a minor character.
Vonnegut himself was a prisoner of war during the firebombing of
Dresden , and he periodically
inserts himself in the narrative, as when he becomes the incontinent soldier in
the latrine in the German prison camp. This authorial presence reappears
throughout the novel, particularly in the refrain “So it goes” that follows
each mention of death. Vonnegut's commentary as a character and an author
enables a more factual interpretation of a story that seems almost
preternaturally fictional and adds support to the idea that such fantastical
elements may be the reality of a traumatized mind.
Ø
Mary
O'Hare  -  Bernhard O'Hare's wife. Mary gets upset with
Vonnegut because she believes that he will glorify war in his novel; Vonnegut,
however, promises not to do so.
Slaughterhouse-Five
is a condemnation of war, and Vonnegut's decision to dedicate the novel in part
to Mary suggests how deeply he agrees with her that the ugly truth about war
must be told.
Ø
Roland
Weary  -  A stupid, cruel soldier taken prisoner by the
Germans along with Billy. Unlike Billy, who is totally out of place in the war,
Weary is a deluded glory-seeker who fancies himself part of the Three
Musketeers and saves Billy's life out of a desire to be heroic.
Ø
Valencia
Merble  -  Billy's pleasant, fat wife who loves him
dearly.
Valencia
and Billy share a well-appointed home and have two children together, but Billy
consistently distances himself from his family.
Ø
Tralfamadorians  -
Aliens shaped like toilet plungers, each with one hand containing an eye in its
palm. The Tralfamadorians' philosophies of time and death influence the
narrative style of the novel. They perceive time as an assemblage of moments
existing simultaneously rather than as a linear progression, and the episodic
nature of
Slaughterhouse-Five
reflects this
notion of time. Their acceptance of death, which Billy embraces, leads the
narrator to remark simply “So it goes” at each mention of death.
Ø
Montana
Wildhack  -  A nubile young actress who is kidnapped by the
Tralfamadorians to be Billy's mate inside the zoo. Billy wins
Montana 's trust and love, and fathers a
child by her in Tralfamadore. But Billy likely is delusional about his
experiences with
Montana , whose presence may
have been imaginatively triggered by a visit to an adult bookstore in
Times Square , where he sees her videos and a headline
claiming to reveal her fate.
Key Characters
Ø
John  -  John is the
hapless narrator of
Cat's Cradle.
In the past, he set out to
write a book about the day the atomic bomb was dropped on
Hiroshima , entitled
The Day the World Ended.
His research led him to an
ill-fated acquaintance with Angela, Frank, and Newt Hoenikker, the equally
hapless children of Felix Hoenikker. He became involved with their efforts to
buy happiness through the use of their father's scientific creation,
ice- nine,
which could simply and without effort turn water to ice.
Ø
Bokonon  -  He created the
religion of Bokononism and asked McCabe to outlaw it so that the religion would
be more exciting and meaningful for its practitioners. John becomes a follower
of Bokononism after he travels to
San Lorenzo
to interview Julian Castle for a magazine article
Ø
Felix
Hoenikker
-  Felix Hoenikker was a key researcher in the
development of the atomic bomb dropped on
Hiroshima .
When John began researching the Hoenikker family, he quickly learned that Felix
cared little for human responsibilities. Felix approached his work as if it
were an amusing game, regardless of the content of the research. Felix was
emotionally indifferent to other people, including his family, simply because
people were not his "specialty." When a marine general asked him to
solve the problem of mud, Felix began working on the creation of an isotope of
water, which he called
ice-nine,
that was
solid at room temperature. Unfortunately, Felix succeeded in creating
ice-nine,
but he kept no records of his research.
After his death, his three children, Angela, Newt, and Frank, secretly divided
his creation among themselves
Ø
Newt
Hoenikker
-  Newt, a four-feet tall midget, is the youngest
child of Felix and Emily Hoenikker. Newt's mother died while giving birth to
him. Newt hoped to find happiness when he became engaged to Zinka, a Ukrainian
midget belonging to a dance company. Unfortunately, she was also a Soviet spy,
and she quickly realized the potential of
ice-nine
as a weapon; she stole Newt's share of
ice-nine
for the Soviet government
Ø
Asa Breed
-  Asa Breed was
Felix's supervisor at the Research Laboratory where Felix helped develop the
atomic bomb. John interviewed him when he was researching his book,
The Day the World Ended,
which was never finished. Asa
took offense at John's questions because he felt that John believed scientists
were heartlessly indifferent to humankind. He told John about Felix's attempts
to create
ice-nine.
When John nervously asked if
Felix had succeeded, Asa denied it and furiously ended the interview.
Ø
Zinka
-  Zinka, a Russian midget dancer, captured the
amorous attentions of Newt Hoenikker. Unfortunately, she was a Soviet spy. She
became engaged to Newt long enough to steal
ice-nine
from him for the Soviet government
Ø
Man
vs. Man – Billy Pilgrim must battle the Axis forces during World War II.
He has to fight to stay alive while he is
behind enemy lines.
He also has to deal
with humanity.
His own allies in the war
are enemies to him.
Billy Pilgrim has to
overcome the struggles between himself and the people around him throughout the
novel.
Ø
Man
vs. Self – Billy has to deal with his past and cope with his memories of the
war.
He temporarily goes crazy and
admits himself to a mental hospital.
Billy has a hard time enjoying his life because of the knowledge he has
obtained that the rest of the world has not (the fourth dimension).
Ø
Man
vs. Nature – Billy has to travel through the
forest
of
Germany
to avoid the Nazi troops.
Battling the
terrain, the heat, and the bugs, Billy’s survival depended on his ability to
traverse nature.
Ø
Man
vs. Supernatural – Billy is kidnapped by aliens, the Tralfamadorians.
He is exposed to their way of thinking with
the fourth dimension and he is forced to live in a zoo with a movie star and
mate with her.
Ø
Man
vs. Man- There are several cases of man vs. man type conflict in Cat’s
Cradle.
First with the explanation of
Felix Hoeniker’s creation of the Atomic Bomb, and also with John’s struggles
against other characters such as Asa Breed for information.
Ø
Man
vs. Self- John who starts the novel as a Christian, later turns to a
“Bokonist.”
He must struggle within
himself for this realization to occur.
Ø
Man
vs. Technology- In Cat’s Cradle man struggles against technology, first in the
invention of the atomic bomb, and with the creation of ice-nine, which by the
end of the novel, destroys the world.
Slaughterhouse-Five
is not written in a linear
format, but rather in a circular form.
For the sake of a plot description, I put the parts of the novel into
chronological order .
Ø
Exposition : Billy Pilgrim is born in 1922 and grows
up in
Ilium ,
New York .
He is drafted into the military for WWII, while he is enrolled in
optometry school.
He becomes a
chaplain’s assistant in the Army and gets ready to be deployed to
Belgium .
Ø
Rising
Action : Billy is thrown into
the
Battle
of the Bulge in
Belgium
and is taken prisoner right
away.
He briefly experiences his first
time tripping experience when he sees his whole life in one sweep.
Billy is transported as a POW in a railway
car to
Germany .
While a POW the Allied forces bomb the city
of
Dresden
where Billy is living.
The bombs destroy
the entire city, but Billy and his friends survive in an airtight meat
locker.
After the Russians set the POWs
free, Billy goes back home and finishes optometry school and he gets married to
Valencia Merble.
Ø
Climax : The night after Billy’s daughters wedding
in 1967, Billy is kidnapped by two-foot high aliens who look like upside-down
toilet plungers.
They take him back to
their planet, where he lives in a zoo and mates with Montana Wildhack.
Ø
Falling
Action : The Tralfamadorians,
the aliens, explain to Billy their perception of time, how its entire sweep
exists for them simultaneously in the fourth dimension.
When someone dies, that person is simply dead
at a particular time.
Somewhere else and
at a different time he or she is alive and well.
Tralfamadorians prefer to look at life’s nicer
moments.
After returning to Earth, Billy
is the only survivor in a plane crash.
Ø
Resolution : Billy feels that the time is right to
tell the world about what he has learned.
Billy has foreseen this moment while time-tripping, and he knows that
his message will eventually be accepted.
Billy makes a tape recording of his account of his death, which he
predicts will occur in 1976 after
Chicago
has been hydrogen bombed by the Chinese.
Billy adds that he will experience death and then trip back to some
other point in his life.
It is a
continuous, never-ending life.
Ø
Exposition :
The narrator, John, sets out to write a book
explaining the end of the world.
In
order to do so, he goes back and does some research on the Atomic Bomb.
He looks to contact Felix Honieker,
the leading scientist in creating the
bomb.
Learning that Felix has passed
away, John contacts Felix’s son Newt, who describes to him his day, when the
bomb was dropped on
Hiroshima .
Newt also mentions on side note, that he is a
midget, and is also about to be married to a Ukrainian dancer, who is also a
midget, named Zinka.
Ø
Rising
Action :
John travels to
Ilium ,
the town where Felix Honieker and his three children lived, looking to find out
information on the family and on Felix Honieker.
He meets with Asa Breed, the man who was head
of the laboratory that produced the atomic bomb.
He tells john that Felix was an interesting
man, very disinterested
in his family, but a
wonderful problem solver, having one of the brightest minds ever.
He tells John, that after creating the atomic
bomb, Felix worked on another project, called ice-nine, which was an isotope of
water, and the slightest drop could turn a large amount of water into a solid,
at room temperature.
John asked Asa if
Felix had succeeded in creating ice-nine, but Asa said no, and quickly ended the
interview.
Little did John know, but
Felix did in fact succeed in creating ice-nine, and prior to his death, he gave
it to his three children.
Frank, traded
his to become the first lieutenant on the
island
of
San Lorenzo ,
Angela traded hers to marry a handsome army lieutenant, and Newt’s was stolen
by Zinka, who turned out to actually be a Russian spy.
Ø
Climax :
Meanwhile, John was hired to write an article about Julian Castle, a multi-
millionaire philanthropist living on
San Lorenzo .
Angela and Newt also occupied the plane; they were en route to a celebration of
Frank's engagement to Mona, the beautiful adopted daughter of "Papa"
Monzano, the island's dictator. Monzano, stricken with terminal cancer, named
Frank his successor. Uninterested in the responsibilities of the job, Frank
asked John to take his place as
San Lorenzo 's
next President. John refused the position until Frank told him that he would
get to marry Mona as part of the bargain. Dr. von Koenigswald informed him that
Monzano had committed suicide. Upon looking at the body, John realized that
Monzano's condition could only have been caused by swallowing
ice-nine
and that, by extension, Felix's
experiments to create the isotope had been successful. When John demanded that
Frank, Newt, and Angela come to Monzano's bedroom, they confessed that they had
divided Felix's awful creation among themselves after he died. With that, a
plane crashed into the mountains above, causing a landslide on the island.
The land slide spills the remaining ice-nine
into the ocean, and all the worlds water instantly turned solid.
Ø
Falling Action / Resolution : Shortly after the disaster, most of the island's survivors,
including Mona, committed suicide. John, Frank, Newt, and the
Crosbys
survived for six months. John wrote this narrative,
Cat's Cradle,
as a record of what had occurred,
while Newt painted, Hazel sewed, Lowe cooked, and Frank studied ants. Bokonon
finished writing the
Books of Bokonon,
all
the while commenting on human stupidity .
Slaughterhouse-Five
is a fictional page out of Kurt Vonnegut’s life story. Vonnegut uses his own
experiences as a spring board for his writing.
By exploring the relationship between Vonnegut and his writing, the
reader can make deeper connections about the work.
Slaughterhouse-Five
is Vonnegut’s personal narrative of his experience in the war.
The first main connection that the reader
must realize is that the main character is Kurt Vonnegut himself and not Billy
Pilgrim.
Vonnegut himself talks in first
person in chapters one and ten, in which he explains how he will describe his
experiences in
Dresden .
The book circles around one major event, the
fire-bombing of
Dresden .
This is the focal point of the novel because
it is the focal point of Vonnegut’s life.
Vonnegut himself survived the same exact thing that Billy Pilgrim in his
experience in the war.
Billy is not
exactly a spitting image of Vonnegut, but he has enough of the same
characteristics to carry out Vonnegut’s message and experience.
Vonnegut also wrote this book during the
turmoil of
Vietnam
so that fact that has a anti-war tone to it is not surprising.
Billy’s happenings on Tralfamadore are
related to Vonnegut’s subconscious mind.
Vonnegut shows up three times in the story of Billy Pilgrim as the story
teller.
The parts of the novel that deal
with the war really are true experiences to Vonnegut, but he cannot stop with
just a simple narrative.
His theories
about cylindrical time and religion are molded into the work through his own
personal imaginative creation of the Tralfamadorians.
The events in Vonnegut’s life played a major
role in the creation of the novel as seen through his own star appearances in
Slaughterhouse-Five .
Vonnegut’s life experiences strongly influenced the text of Cat’s Cradle,
in several ways.
Vonnegut’s mother
committed suicide in 1944, on mothers day, while he was sent to go fight in
World War ll.
While in war, he was taken
prisoner by the Germans, in
Dresden .
While there, he was locked in the meet locker
of a slaughterhouse.
Vonnegut
experienced the bombing of
Dresden ,
which had no military relevance at all, it was strictly a civilian town.
After these experiences Vonnegut became
extremely pacifist, often bashing war, and the creation of such things to aid
in warfare.
In Cat’s Cradle, the result
of the book is, the world comes to an end because of the creation of an isotope
of water, known as ice-nine, which turns water into solid at room temperature.
At the same time, these experiences led Vonnegut
to find life extremely worthless, while the events pushed him away from
religion.
In Cat’s Cradle, he creates a
fictional religion known has Bokonism, which its founder, Bokon, admits is
founded on complete lies.
Vonnegut emerged in between two major American wars; WWII
and
Vietnam .
WWII left Vonnegut with a post-modernist type
of philosophy.
He writing is a result of
a personal and societal backlash to the wars.
His accounts of
Dresden
are real
occurrences and the people of the
U.S.
will respond to his
feelings.
Vonnegut experienced two very
different wars and the backlash that they each created.
People stood behind the WWII vets, but did
not understand exactly what they were going through.
Vonnegut was one of only a handful who
survived
Dresden
and searched through the ruble the very next day.
Most WWII vets seemed to be happy with their
medals and their sense of honor.
Vonnegut on the other hand, was dealt a different had that
unquestionably many other servicemen went through.
There is a generation of people from both
wars that are distraught and cannot see the world in the same way.
Unlike the
Vietnam
vets though, the WWII vet’s
with these symptoms are not identified as often.
Vonnegut represents a class of citizens who
are misunderstood and under-recognized during this time.
WWII left many with a fear of war and its
consequences due to the destruction of so many lives.
Vonnegut and his anti-war themes are a result
of the feelings of the people during the time.
It is even amazing that the people of
America
sent troops to
Vietnam
because they were still recovering from the destruction of WWII.
Vonnegut grew up in an era in between
World War l and World War ll, while he later was enlisted, and fought in World
War ll.
While in the war, he was taken
as a prisoner of war, and kept in
Dresden ,
Germany , where
he experienced the bombing of the town, by the Allies.
The town had no military significance, which
caused Vonnegut to adapt an extremely pacifist view, seeing the evil nature in
human beings.
The setting of Cat’s
Cradle, although no specific time is said, is set to be sometime after World
War ll.
In Vonnegut’s novel, he argues
that man did not learn from their past mistakes.
While the narrator of the book sets out to
write a book, about the day the world will end, speaking of the Atomic bomb
from World War ll, little does he know that his quest for information actually
leads him to find a new substance which could potentially end the world, and in
fact, does by the end of the text.
It is
somewhat ironic, since he sets out to write the book, unknowing of this
substance which by the end of his book, actually does cause the world to end.
Vonnegut, growing up during this time period,
is what sparked his extremely pacifist view, prompting his argument in the
text, that people did not learn from World War ll, and eventually man’s own
creation will lead to man’s own demise.
The economic read for
Slaughterhouse-Five
and Kurt Vonnegut is very slim because the reader or critic does not see
money as a driving force in this novel.
The social scene on the other hand plays a huge role in the development
of the novel and why Vonnegut has chosen to write his novel with the anti-war,
anti-establishment tone.
War causes
people to lose faith in the established institutions of the time and search for
meaning in new places.
The extreme death
count of WWII caused an anti-war feeling to sweep the nation.
Leading this cause were authors, poets, and
political figures.
Vonnegut, being an
anti-war activist himself conveyed his message through his books.
Although writing about WWII and not knowing
that
Vietnam
was coming, Vonnegut could not have picked a better time to release his
book.
He had two generations wrapped
around his finger.
America
was looking for new
alternatives to any ordinary established place so things such as science
fiction became a viable substitute.
Vonnegut is influenced by his audience, but he also lets his mind to the
work.
Slaughterhouse-Five
is a one of a kind book that is aimed to
influence anyone who is upset at the unnecessary and unexplainable destruction
of war.
Vonnegut’s life experiences strongly influenced the text of Cat’s Cradle,
in several ways.
Vonnegut’s mother
committed suicide in 1944, on mothers day, while he was sent to go fight in
World War ll.
While in war, he was taken
prisoner by the Germans, in
Dresden .
While there, he was locked in the meet locker
of a slaughterhouse.
Vonnegut
experienced the bombing of
Dresden ,
which had no military relevance at all, it was strictly a civilian town.
After these experiences Vonnegut became
extremely pacifist, often bashing war, and the creation of such things to aid
in warfare.
In Cat’s Cradle, the result
of the book is, the world comes to an end because of the creation of an isotope
of water, known as ice-nine, which turns water into solid at room
temperature.
At the same time, these experiences
led Vonnegut to find life extremely worthless, while the events pushed him away
from religion.
In Cat’s Cradle, he
creates a fictional religion known has Bokonism, which its founder, Bokon,
admits is founded on complete lies. At the same time Vonnegut grew up in an era
in between World War l and World War ll, while he later was enlisted, and
fought in World War ll.
While in the
war, he was taken as a prisoner of war, and kept in
Dresden ,
Germany ,
where he experienced the bombing of the town, by the Allies.
The town had no military significance, which
caused Vonnegut to adapt an extremely pacifist view, seeing the evil nature in
human beings.
The setting of Cat’s Cradle,
although no specific time is said, is set to be sometime after World War
ll.
In Vonnegut’s novel, he argues that
man did not learn from their past mistakes.
While the narrator of the book sets out to write a book, about the day
the world will end, speaking of the Atomic bomb from World War ll, little does
he know that his quest for information actually leads him to find a new
substance which could potentially end the world, and in fact, does by the end
of the text.
It is somewhat ironic,
since he sets out to write the book, unknowing of this substance which by the
end of his book, actually does cause the world to end.
Vonnegut, growing up during this time period,
is what sparked his extremely pacifist view, prompting his argument in the
text, that people did not learn from World War ll, and eventually man’s own
creation will lead to man’s own demise
1. Vonnegut uses an unfamiliar style of
two narratives that separates him from the story .
Chapters One and Ten are both first person
and explain how the war has transformed him.
The other chapters revolve around the character Billy Pilgrim and his
fragmented journeys through time.
Vonnegut also makes himself a character in Billy Pilgrim’s
narrative.
By having two narratives,
Vonnegut removes himself from the one that is narrated by Billy Pilgrim, making
it seem like it is Billy’s personal biography.
2.
Anaphora:
The phrase “So it goes” is constantly used by
Billy Pilgrim every time someone dies.
The phrase is extremely impersonal and lacks any emotion.
The use of such blatant language that is
repeated endlessly through the novel showcases the new attitude that Billy
Pilgrim has toward death after his experience with the Trafamadorians.
Death is only one unfortunate scene in life,
but at that exact time, the same person is perfectly fine and happy.
3.
Non linear time
which emphasizes Vonnegut’s cylindrical theories:
Vonnegut does not write
in terms of a conventional novel because it would conform to assumptions of
cause and effect and rigidities of time Vonnegut himself questions.
Like the order of events, Vonnegut sees
things such as the firebombing at
Dresden
as illogical.
The book is also written
as the Tralfamadorians see the world.
Bits and pieces of everything are meant to make one big picture.
This cylindrical theory means that each
object of character in the book is its own history, not just part of
history.
An example of non linear time
occurs when Billy is laying in a hospital bed after his plane crash and he time
trips back twenty years to his time as a POW.
4.
Varied syntax:
Like
time itself in
Slaughterhouse-Five ,
the syntax is varied, scattered, and irregular.
Long, complex sentences are interjected with short powerful
statements.
The syntax structure keeps
readers interested and involved in the novel.
Vonnegut writes, “It was painted gold.
It had a clock on it”.
Short
sentences like this are juxtaposed with sentences like, “[b]ut the colonel
imagined that he was addressing his beloved troops for the last time, and he
told them that they had nothing to be ashamed of, that there were dead Germans
all over the battlefield who wished to God that they had never heard of the
Four-fifty-first”.
5.
Metaphor:
The use of metaphors in
Slaughterhouse-Five,
is a common occurrence in Vonnegut’s
novels.
The metaphors operate to
represent larger themes in the novel.
Since nowhere else does Vonnegut confess his true feelings outright it
is only true to his style and writing personality that he hides his messages in
powerful metaphors and similes.
An
example of a metaphor in
Slaughterhouse-Five
is when Billy is living in the zoo and the tour guide is describing Billy
by saying “his head was incased in a steel sphere which he could never take
off.
There was only one eyehole through
which he could look and welded to that eyehole where six feet of pipe”.
The tour guild is attempting to describe the
way that Billy sees life in only three dimensions as opposed to four
dimensions.
The tour guide goes on to
explain that it is like Billy is on a flatcar on train tracks and all he can do
is see ahead of himself.
This metaphor
is used to display the difference between seeing in three dimensions and seeing
in four dimensions.
6.
Irony:
Vonnegut
uses irony as a form of literary humor.
The novel is full of ironic situations that add to the puns and witty criticisms
of human kind.
Vonnegut writes about the
POWs and Billy Pilgrim surviving the firebombing, a very lucky event.
After their survival, a friend of Billy’s is
shot via firing squad for stealing a tea pot while rummaging through the
remains of the city.
The fact that this
man survived the deadliest bombing to date, yet died for stealing a tea pot is
very ironic.
Another example of irony is
the fact that Billy is an optometrist and his job entitles him to fix the way
people see the world around them.
In
reality, Billy learns the truth of the universe and attempts to share his
knowledge with the world.
It is his job
to try to get people to believe and realize that there is a fourth dimension.
7.
Symbolism:
The
most prominent symbol in the novel is the bird that appears in the beginning
and in the end.
The bird symbolizes the
inability to say anything intelligent about war.
After a massacre the only thing that is heard
is the birds and this seems as appropriate as anything to say at a time like
that since there really are no words to describe the horror of an incident such
as
Dresden .
The “tweeting” birds appear again outside of
Billy’s hospital room and at the very end of the novel.
Vonnegut says that the bird is asking a
question to which no one has an answer much like the fact that no one has an
answer for what happened at
Dresden .
8.
Imagery:
Vonnegut’s language does not evoke much
emotion.
He leaves all emotional
interpretation up to the reader.
While
lacking emotional language, Vonnegut still describes scenes with great
detail.
Billy Pilgrim describes his trip
as a POW with the description, “[h]uman beings in there were excreting into
steel helmets which were passed to the people at the ventilators, who dumped
them.
Billy was a dumper.
The human beings also passed canteens, which
guards would fill with water.
When food
came in the human beings were quiet and trusting and beautiful.
They shared”.
This passage strictly states the facts, but for the reader we are
disgusted yet appalled at the sincerity of human nature.
Vonnegut does not throw his themes and
messages at the reader, but rather he makes the reader search and discover
their own truths.
9.
Epigraph:
“The cattle are lowing, / The baby awakes./
But the little Lord Jesus/ No crying He makes.”
The epigraph of this book is the quatrain from the famous Christmas
carol.
Billy cried very little, though
he often saw things worth crying about, and in that respect, he resembles the
Christ of the carol.
10.
Characterization:
The character
description, or lack thereof, of Kurt Vonnegut is very simple, so he can convey
his feelings about the character immediately without having to list every
minute detail.
For example, Vonnegut
describes Billy Pilgrim as “a funny-looking child that became a funny-looking
youth; tall, weak, and shaped like a Coca-Cola bottle.”
There is no hair of eye color given; no
facial descriptions; no personality description either, but Vonnegut is still
very effective and gets his point across that Billy in lanky, awkward, and a
“funny-looking” person.
From Vonnegut’s
short descriptions we immediately form a mental picture of Billy Pilgrim
Allusion :
The book opens with this text, which is an allusion to “Call me Ishmael,”
in Moby Dick. It also alludes to Jonah from the bible who was swallowed
whole by a giant fish.
Vonnegut
does this to parallel Johns absurd quest to find the complete story behind
the Hoenikkers
Irony : John sets out to write a story about the day the world will
end, which causes him to dig back into time and talk about the atomic
bomb.
In doing so he comes into
relation with the family who holds the potential substance which could
bring about the end of world in his present day.
In his quest to find answers of the past
destruction causer, the atomic bomb, it leads to the release of this new
substance and causes the world to end.
Anecdote : The entire story is an extended anecdote, the narrator is
looking back in time to the start of his journey.
In this extended anecdote, smaller
anecdotes of previous events and occurrences compose the entire story.
Symbolism :
Vonnegut creates his
own made up religion in Cat’s Cradle, which is meant to symbolize the
absurdity of organized religion in today’s world.
Bokon, the founder of Bokonism, the made
up religion, even admits and tells that Bokonism is entirely based upon
lies.
Euphemism : Vonnegut uses Euphemisms when speaking in terms of
Bokonism, in order to show the lies of organized religion in today’s
society.
Verisimilitude : The story
contains a low degree of verisimilitude, which Vonnegut knows and uses in
order to show the absurdity in today’s world, whether it be with warfare,
religion or simply interactions between people.
Wit : All of Vonnegut’s character’s
speak sounding very witty. Vonnegut uses his characters in order to create
puns and sarcasm about society and the meaninglessness of life.
Throughout his career,
Kurt Vonnegut used writing as a tool to convey penetrating messages and ominous
warnings about our society. He skillfully combines vivid imagery with satirical
and metaphorical style to explore complex issues such as religion and war. Two
of his most well known novels that embody this subtle talent are Cat's Cradle
and Slaughterhouse-Five. Both books represent Vonnegut’s genius for
manipulating fiction to reveal disturbing truths about human nature. On the
surface,
Cat’s Cradle
and
Slaughterhouse-Five
are dramatically
different novels, each with its own characters, symbols, and plot. However, a
close examination reveals that both contain common themes and ideas. Examining
and comparing the two novels and their presentation of different themes
provides a unique insight into both the novels and the author; allowing the
reader to gain a fuller understanding of Vonnegut’s true meaning.
One of the most prevalent themes in Vonnegut’s works is religion. In the early
pages of
Cat’s Cradle , Vonnegut says
that "a useful religion can be founded on lies,” (Vonnegut,
Cats Cradle
16) meaning that religion is
about people, not about faith or God. Reminiscent of Karl Marx’s description of
religion as the "opiate of the masses," he describes all religions as
mere collections of "harmless untruths" that help people cope with
their lives. The Book of Bokonon in
Cat's
Cradle
represents this portrait of religion.
Bokononism is contradictory, paradoxical, and
founded on lies; its followers are aware of this, yet they continue to believe
because it gives them something on which to anchor their lives. Similarly, in
Slaughterhouse-Five , Vonnegut uses the
writing of Kilgore Trout to comment on religion, stating that it serves only to
help people understand that which they cannot control. One of Kilgore Trout’s
novels involves a couple who are being studied by aliens. The aliens control a
stock ticker that the couple uses to mate investments. One day, the ticker
announces that the President has declared a national
prayer
week. The couple
prays, and stocks go up, so they continue to pray. In their struggles to
understand the movement of stocks, which they cannot control, the couple has
created religion and invented a God to worship. Vonnegut uses this example as a
satirical attack on religion.
However, Vonnegut goes on to warn that those that choose to enjoy the
superficial comforts provided by a religious lifestyle should brace themselves
for a shocking disappointment if they ever do seek proof of God’s existence.
After all, how can God exist in a universe that permits such atrocities as
Dresden
and
Hiroshima
according to Vonnegut?
In
Slaughterhouse-Five , Billy Pilgrim has a
gruesome crucifix hanging on his wall. The
Christ
on Billy’s crucifix
is dead, and it symbolizes his loss of faith – "Billy’s Christ died
horribly. He was pitiful,” (Vonnegut ,
Slaughterhouse-Five
38).
Vonnegut
reinforces this idea with another of Kilgore Trout’s stories. This story
involves an inventor who takes a stethoscope back in time to see if Christ
really dies. He returns with the discomforting conclusion that "the Son of
God was dead as a doornail," (Vonnegut,
Slaughterhouse-Five
203).
In
Cat's Cradle
Vonnegut assumes an even
more cynical stance through Julian Castle, the founder of a missionary hospital.
When asked about Jesus Christ, he states,
"oh, Him. People have to talk about something just to keep their voice
boxes in working order," (Vonnegut,
Cat’s
Cradle
140).
Being a helpless
witness to constant death and suffering has caused Castle to lose his faith. At
the end of
Cat’s Cradle , as the world
is coming to an end, Vonnegut quotes from the Book of Bokonon, "I would
write a history of human stupidity, and I would climb to the top of Mount
McCabe and lie down on my back with my history for a pillow...and I would make
a statue of myself...grinning horribly, and thumbing my nose at You Know Who,”
(Vonnegut,
Cat’s Cradle
231).
In most literature, the presence of God is often associated with the absence of
free will. However, Vonnegut asserts that although God may not exist, free will
may not exist either. In
Slaughterhouse-Five ,
he summarizes his opinions with the comment; "among the things Billy
Pilgrim could not change were the past, the present, and the
future ,” (Vonnegut,
Slaughterhouse-Five
60).
According to the Tralfamadorians, time is
constant, and not dynamic. To them, "all moments, past, present, and
future, always have existed, always will exist„.they can see how permanent all
the moments are,” (Vonnegut,
Slaughterhouse-Five
27).
The decisions we make are not due
to free will; instead, they occur because "everybody has to do exactly
what he does,” (Vonnegut,
Slaughterhouse-Five
198).
In
Cat’s Cradle , Jonah, the main character, does not travel through
time as Billy Pilgrim does, yet he is able to come to the same realization that
time is more like a static stretch of mountains than a flowing river. However,
unlike Billy, Jonah must discover this without the help of the Tralfamadorians.
When Jonah experiences "a Bokononist vision of the unity in every second
of all time and all wandering mankind,” (Vonnegut,
Cat’s Cradle
67) he is finally able to understand how all of time
is connected.
Billy and Jonah both have unique insights into the nature of time,
consequently, they have resigned themselves to fate; neither of them cares
about death or life because they know that they are helpless to change the
future. Whenever Jonah recounts a story, he makes the comment "as it
happened-as it was supposed to happen." Likewise, Billy is constantly
rationalizing that "the moment is structured that way."
Although Vonnegut has established a strong
theme of free will in both novels, he makes it clear that he does not know or
understand everything.
In
Slaughterhouse-Five, he deliberately uses the noncommittal phrase "Billy
says" when he refers to the time travels. This leaves open the possibility
that Billy, instead of traveling through time, is simply insane as a result of
his war experiences.
Vonnegut’s novels
open up a new world to readers who have never read anything of this genre
before.
Religion is completely distorted
throughout both novels.
While time, war,
and human nature play huge roles in Vonnegut’s themes, he makes it a point to
really spell out his views on religion to the reader.
Vonnegut uses his novels as a way to impose
his ideas and get his message spread.
Religion is shaky ground and Vonnegut has no problem cutting through any
hot debates and dismantling people’s perception of God and religion.
With the idea of the fourth dimension and the
lack of free will, people cannot help but to question the established authority
they have been following for so long.
Kurt Vonnegut
understands what most of his characters do not.
He gets what most of the society does not.
Vonnegut knows the world is a mess, and
granted, that is not an all too pleasant thing, but the flip side to that, and
the side that Vonnegut loves to point out, is the fact that this mess can be
pretty damn hilarious.
Cat’s Cradle
and
Slaughterhouse V
are both matted
with irony and parody.
Although Vonnegut
undoubtedly wants to make his readers laugh, it is important to notice that his
humor has many underlying implications. Vonnegut incorporates his use of wit
and irony and share of puns, yes in order to make the reader laugh, but to also
force the reader to take a stand on the many polarizing issues which linger
through society, such as war, religion and science. Forcing his readers to take
a stance allows Vonnegut, if they do not agree with his views, to then bash
them over the head with his club of pacifism (go figure) and anti establishment
ideals, and if they do agree with him, to glorify their ideas pushing them
further in that spectrum.
The cocktail that
washes up in many of Vonnegut’s works, including Cat’s Cradle, and
Slaughterhouse V, is the meaningless destruction of war and the technology
which brings this about mixed with pure human stupidity and the inclination to
do what is wrong.
The twentieth century
added an ever-advancing tempo of industrialization and scientific technology to
a pre-existing cauldron of international conflict. Although these advancements
did make for a greater standard of living, they also exacerbated human conflict
and suffering on many levels.
The
scientific community that introduced the world to penicillin also gave birth to
the atomic bomb, nerve gas and napalm.
In both texts, Vonnegut, through his use of wit, sarcasm and irony,
points out the destructive side of science, showing how a seemingly good
intentioned invention can lead to the maiming of human lives.
In Cat’s Cradle,
Vonnegut provides the reader with a picture of innocence in Felix Hoenikker, a
puzzling, disturbing side of innocence.
Hoenikker is a Nobel-prize winning physicists who approaches all his
problems like a child playing a game.
He
is as interested in studying the Atomic Bomb as he is in researchin the
behavior of turtles.
Hoenikker cares
little for fame, prestige, or even other people, including his family.
At the same time however, he cares little or
thinks little of what his inventions can become.
This seemingly harmless man helps build the
Atomic Bomb, which took so many lives in World War ll, while he also produces a
second substance, known as ice-nine.
By
the end of the novel ice-nine, and isotope of water which is solid at room
temperature, kills life on earth.
At the same time,
Billy, and optometrist from Slaughterhouse-Five, unknowingly does more harm
than good.
Billy is upducted by aliens,
known has
Tralfamadorians, who inform him of a fourth
dimension. He believes in the Tralfamadorians' view of time—that all moments of
time exist simultaneously and repeat themselves endlessly. He thus believes
that he knows what will happen in the future.
However, it can be argued that Billy lacks sight completely.
He goes to war, witnesses horrific events,
and becomes mentally unstable as a result. He has a shaky grip on reality and
at random moments experiences overpowering flashbacks to other parts of his
life. His sense that aliens have captured him and kept him in a zoo before
sending him back to Earth may be the product of an overactive imagination.
Given all that Billy has been through, it is logical to believe that he has
gone insane, and it makes sense to interpret these bizarre alien encounters as
hallucinatory incidents triggered by mundane events that somehow create an
association
w ith
past traumas. Looking at Billy this way, we can see him as someone who has lost
true sight and lives in a cloud of hallucinations and self-doubt.
Another motif in Vonnegut’s works is
the attack or argument against established religion.
Vonnegut uses the fictional religion of
Bokononism to satirize his targets for in Cat’s Cradle.
Bokonon, the founder of this religion, serves
the same purpose as the Tralfamadorians in Slaughterhouse V.
Vonnegut voices off the wall observations
concerning the general state of things, showing that absurdity of established
religion.
Bokononism, unlike most
religions however, is openly founded on outright lies.
However, this is more than just an attack on
religion; the lives of the characters in the novel demonstrate that the
religions has many useful thins to say.
Almost every character in the novel is or
becomes a Bokononist while this particular faith does not necessarily give them
an exclusive window onto the inner workings of the universe, it does give them
a mindset more appreciative of the overall irony and humor of their present
situations.
John, the narrator in Cat’s
Cradle, switches from Christianity to Bokononsim, just because he decides that
the universe does not make any sense at all.
At the end of the novel he finds himself confronted with the end of humanity;
had he been a Christian he would be pressured to survive with the cruel reality
that surrounds him, but because he his now a Bokononist, the disaster makes
perfect sense, because it is completely senseless. Vonnegut’s conclusion on
religion can be summed up in saying that the mysteries of the universe can look
astounding and mankind can be fairly interesting and entertaining at times, but
when people really start digging into things, and are not content with just
existing to be happy, then they are going to come up short handed.
Kurt Vonnegut was a man very much in
touch with what hesees as the basic ridiculousness and meaninglessness of
life.
Cat’s Cradle and Slaughterhouse V
dissect many of the instituions that society holds close to their heart, that
give people’s lives structure and meaning and stability.
In many ways, these novels can be seen as an
exercise in pulling aside the curtain and revealing life as just a con man with
a few gadgets.
Kurt Vonnegut –
Slaughterhouse-Five
Passage
#1
“It would take another Earthling to
explain to you.
Earthlings are great
explainers, explaining why this event is structured as it is, telling how other
events may be achieved or avoided.
I am
a Tralfamadorian, seeing all time as you might see a stretch of the
Rocky Mountains .
All time is time.
It does not
change.
It does not lend itself to
warnings or explanations.
It simply
is .
Take it moment by moment, and you will find that we are all, as I’ve
said before, bugs in amber.”
“You sound to me as though you
don’t believe in free will,” said Billy Pilgrim.
“If I hadn’t spent so much time
studying Earthlings,” said the Tralfamadorian, “I wouldn’t have any idea what
is meant by ‘free will.’
I’ve visited
thirty-one inhabited planets in the universe, and I have studied reports on one
hundred more.
Only on Earth is there any
talk of free will.” (chapter 4, page 86)
Passage
#2
If what Billy Pilgrim learned from
the Tralfamadorians is true, that we will all live forever, no matter how dead
we may sometimes seem to be, I am not overjoyed.
Still – if I am going to spend eternity
visiting this moment and that, I’m grateful that so many of those moments are
nice.
(chapter 10, page 211)
1. According to the speaker of passage #2 he is relieved
because
A. he will
not live forever
B. the
Tralfamadorians are correct
C. he can
relive the good parts of his life
D. he will
never die
E. he will
be able to travel through time to visit dead relatives
2. The dominant device used by the author in passage #1 is
A. allusion
B. metaphor
C. paradox
D. epiphany
E.
vivid imagery
3. What is the importance of the Tralfamadorians?
A. They
offer insight into an unknown realm
B. They
prove that alien life form exists
C. They are
a prime example of the effects that war can have on a person.
D. Each one
can control a person’s mind
E. They are
actually just of race of people in
Eastern Africa
4. It can be inferred that the speaker in passage #2
A. is also
a Tralfamadorian
B. has had
a realization about life
C. is not
afraid to die
D. has
infinite knowledge now
E. is
skeptical about Bill’s knowledge
5. The language of both passages can be described as
A. informal
B. coloquial
C. bitter
D.
informative
E.
sarcastic
6. In the passages, “Free-will” is a reference to
A. sense of
independence after death
B. ability
to choose
C.
Tralfamadorian life
D. rights
of living in the
U.S.
E. religion
7. What purpose does the sentence “ I am… Rocky
Mountains ” serve in passage #1?
A. provides
imagery
B. a simile
to explain the fourth dimension
C. provides
an allusion to life on Earth
D. a
metaphor to explain that life for a Tralfamadorian is seen in terms of
landscape
E. none of
the above
8. The Speaker in passage #2 is
A. a
religious pastor
B. A Tralfamadorian
C. Billy
Pilgrim
D.
Valencia
Merble
E. Kurt Vonnegut
9. In passage #1 what is “it” in the sentence “It simply
is”?
A. war
B. the
Rocky Mountains
C. time
D. death
E. bugs in
amber
10. In context in passage #2 “moments” means
A. specific
times in life
B. parts of
the past, present, and future
C. special
times when love is felt
D. clips of
a movie
E. all of
the above
I
went to Frank’s house in
San Lorenzo ’s one
taxicab
We
passed through scenes of hideous want. We climbed the slope of
Mount
McCabe .
The air grew cooler. There was a mist
Frank’s
House had once been the home of the Nestor Amons, father of Mona, architecht of
the House of Hope and Mercy in the Jungle.
Amons
had designed it.
It
straddled a waterfall; had a terrace cantilevered out into the mist rising from
the fall. It was a cunning lattice of very light steel posts and beams. The
inerstices of the lattice were variously open, chinked wit native stone,
glazed, or curtained by the sheets of canvas.
The
effect of the house was not so much to enclose as to announce that a man had
been whimsically busy there.
A
servant greeted me politely and told me that Frank wasn’t home yet. Frank was
expected at any moment. Frank had left orders to the effect that I was to be
made happy and comfortable, and that I was to stay for supper and the night.
The servant, who introduced himself as
Stanley ,
was the first plump San Lorenzan I had seen.
Stanley
led me to my room;
led me around the heart of the house, down a staircase of living stone, a
staircase sheltered or exposed by steel-framed rectangles at raondom. My bed
was a foam-rubber slab on a stone shelf, a shelf of living stone. The walls of
my chamber were canvas.
Stanley
demonstrated how I might roll them up or down, as I pleased.
I
asked
Stanley
if anyone else was home, and he told me that onlye New was. Newt, he said, was
out on the cantilevered terrace, painting a picture. Angela, he said, had gone
sightseeing to the House of Hope and mercy in the Jungle.
I
went out onto the giddy terrace that straddled the waterfall and found little
newt asleep in yellow butterfly chair.
The
painting on which Newt had been working was set on an easel next to the
aluminum railing. The painting was framed ina misty view of sky, sea, and
valley.
Newt’s
painting was small and black and warty.
It
consisted of scratches made in a black, gummy impasto. The scratched formed a
sort of spider’s web, and I wondered if they might not be the sticky nets of
human futility hung up on a moonless night to dry.
I
did no wake up the midget who had made this dreadful thing. I smoked, listening
to imagined voices in the water sounds.
What
awakened little Newt was an explosion far away below. It caromed up the valley
and went to God. It was cannon on the water in front of Bolivar, Frank’s
major-domo told me. It was fired every day at five.
Little
Newt stirred.
While
still half-snoozing, he put his black, painty hands to his mouth and chin,
leaving black smears there. He rubbed his eyes and made black smears around
them, too.
“Hello,”
he said to me, sleepily.
“Hello,”
I said. “I like your painting.”
“You
see what it is?”
“I
suppose it means something different to everyone who sees it.”
“It’s
a cat’s cradle.”
“Aha,”
I said. “Very good. The scratches are string. Right?”
“One
of the oldest games there is, cat’s cradle. Even the Eskimos know it.”
“You
don’t say.”
“For
maybe a hundred thousand years or more grownups have been waving tangles of
string in their children’s faces.”
“Um.”
Newt
remained curled in the chair. He held out his painty hands asthought a cat’s
cradle were strung between them. “No wonder kids grow up crazy. A cat’s cradle
is nothing but a bunch of X’s between somebody’s hands, and little kids look
and look and look at all those X’s…”
“And?”
“ No damn cat, no damn cradle.”
1. In line 3 of the passage, “hideous
want” most nearly means
a. The narrator would
like to live in
San Lorenzo
b.
San
Lorenzo
had areas in bad condition
c. The narrator
thought
San Lorenzo
was hideous
d. The narrator wanted
something the people of
San Lorenzo
had
2. In line 12 of the passage, the word
“lattice” means
a. Terrace
b. Window
c. Lettuce
d. Plateau
3. From the passage, one can conclude
that Frank is…
a. One of the people
in need on
San Lorenzo
b. A visitor the
island
c. A man of importance
on the island
d. A type of delicacy
on the island
4. In line 10, the word cantilevered
means
a. To be suspended in
the air
b. To act in a motion
that would such resemble a caterpillar
c. To be supported or
projected on one side only
d. To have a lever
5.
What is the implication of Frank’s servant,
being the only “plump” San Lorenzan the narrator has seen?
a. The servant is
stealing Frank’s food behind his back
b. He has big bones
which enable him to be a servant
c. Frank is a man of
importance and his servants live better than most on the island
d. The servant ate a
baby rather than taking care of a baby
6.
Based on the imagery in the text, one can
conclude what about Newt?
a. He is a little boy
b. He is an ugly
midget
c. He is approximately
22 years old
d. He likes to sleep
outside
7. What is the implication behind the
“cat’s cradle”
a. The people in
today’s society are all mad
b. Newts painting did
not come out the way he meant it to
c. There is no such
thing as a cat’s cradle
d. It is a tradition
on the island
8.
What does the author mean in lines 15-17 “The effect….busy there.”
a. The house had many
people coming and going
b. The servants in the
house were not doing their jobs
c. The house openly
had Franks work showing he is a busy, important person
d. Newt made a mess
while painting on the terrace
9. The word whimsically in line 16 most
nearly means
a. Capricious
b. Sudden
c. Eccentric
d. none of the above
10. In the second paragraph of the
passage, what literary device does the author use
a. anecdote
b. aphorism
c. hyperbole
d. varying length of
syntax
“A Critical Analysis of Slaughterhouse-Five”.
Marek
Vit’s Kurt Vonnegut Corner.
23 Mar 2009.
<http://geocitie s.com/hollywood/4953/kv_slaughter.html>
“Cat’s Cradle”.
Cat’s
Cradle Encyclopedia.
28 Mar 2009.
<http://www.experiencefestival.com/a/Cats_Cradle>
"Comparing
Themes in Cat’s Cradle and Slaughterhouse Five."
123HelpMe.com . 31
Mar 2009
<http://www.123HelpMe.com/view.asp?id=6193>.
Samson, Ian.
“Wisdom From Beyond the Grave”.
Spectator.
307.9379. (May 31, 2008)
34(1).
Student Resource
Center-Gold. Gale.
Saugus
High School . 26 Feb 2009.
<http://findgalegroup.com/ips/start.do?prodd=IPSS>
Serafin, Steven R.
“Kurt Vonnegut Jr.”.
Encyclopedia of World Literature on the 20 th
Century.
1999 ed.
“Slaughterhouse-Five,
Existentialist Themes Elaborated in a
Postmodernist
Way ”.
Metapress
Resources.
26 Mar 2009. <http://resources.metapress.com/pdf>
“Slaughterhouse-Five”.
The Vonnegut Web.
14 Mar 2009.
<http://www.vonnegutweb.com/sh5/index>
Steinbeck-Zindel.
“Kurt Vonnegut”.
Magill’s Survey of American Literature.
2007.
“Trafamadorian Structure in Slaughterhouse-Five”.
The
Vonnegut Web.
14 Mar 2009.
< http://www.vonnegutweb.com/sh5/index>
Vonnegut,
Kurt.
Slaughterhouse-Five.
Delacorte
Press/Seymour
Lawrence .
Dec. 1991.
Vonnegut,
Kurt.
Cat’s Cradle.
Delacorte
Press/Seymour
Lawrence .
Dec. 1991.