Towmasters: the Master of Towing Vessels Assoc. Forum | Advocate of the tugboat captain. | Page 7
Towmasters: the Master of Towing Vessels Assoc. Forum
Advocate of the tugboat captain.
About Us
News
Info
Mariner Credentialing
Training & Ed.
Jobs
Gear
Towing Tech
Safety
Library
Posted by:
towmasters
| November 1, 2010
Photo Of The Week – 11/1/10
Cheyenne , pushing a string of loaded scows southbound past the upper mouth of the
Harlem River
(another one of
New York Harbor’s
many tidal
straits ), is among the last working examples of a special breed of tug: the canal boat. The retractable pilothouse, low stack and counterweighted main mast that can be easily lowered were designed for passing under the many low bridges spanning the
Erie Canal . They were built by the
Matton Shipyard
of Cohoes, N.Y. Check out the website of the
Waterford Maritime Historical Association
for more information.
Visible in the background are the
Spuyten Duyvil Railroad Bridge , the
Henry Hudson Bridge , and the south tower of the
Broadway Bridge , just three of the 8 mile-long river’s
18 crossings
(15 bridges & 3 tunnels).
New York City, comprised of three islands ( Manhattan ,
Staten
and
Long ) and a peninsula ( the Bronx ), is surrounded by and shot through with miles and miles of water. With geography like this waterborne transportation is by far the most efficient and, in the future of constrained and diminishing energy supplies that is rapidly approaching us, it will become more critical than ever. Rail, too, will be of major importance. In New York and elsewhere throughout our country we need to invest heavily in the local, small-scale infrastructure that facilitates the timely movement of freight and people from place to place and between water and land, which is how it was all done before our cheap fossil fuel-fed orgy of waste took over. Given our love of ever-advancing technology, and our blind faith that it can and will solve all of our energy problems, it’s truly ironic that we’re now in the midst of discovering that the future we’ll need to build resides in our own not-so-distant past.
You can call it
short sea shipping . Or maybe  America’s Marine Highways
suits you better. Either way we’re going to have to move much more by water. The  U.S. Maritime Administration
knows it.  Canada
and  Europe
do too. Hell, MARAD even has a whole
reference library
on the subject. It’s time to stop wasting precious time and dwindling financial and natural resources on more of serving the four (or eighteen) wheels that have gotten us into the mess we’re in. Water is the way to go…..
Leave a Comment
Posted in
Photo of the Week
| Tags:
America's Marine Highways ,
Canal Boats ,
Cheyenne ,
DONJON Marine Co. ,
Harlem River ,
Hudson River ,
Manhattan ,
New York City ,
New York Harbor ,
Short Sea Shipping ,
Spuyten Duyvil ,
The Bronx
Posted by:
towmasters
| October 31, 2010
Safe Voyage eMagazine – Fall 2010
After a long hiatus, here’s the new   Fall 2010
issue of
QSE Solutions’
Safe Voyage
e-magazine. As has been the case since it began, Dione and Dean Lee have gone above and beyond to produce a high-quality publication that deserves the attention of your eyeballs and gray matter. In particular, this issue’s opening  Letter from the Editors
hits home with force and it would be really nice to think that the members of the Coast Guard marine safety community, particularly the people involved with mariner training & licensing and the STCW juggernaut, will read it and realize that “honoring the mariner” deserves far more than lip service, which is mostly all it has gotten so far. We at the MTVA appreciate a great deal the focus placed on describing the frustrations experienced by the working mariners trying to salvage our own profession from a bureaucratic nightmare that is not of our own making. Reading it, I couldn’t help but think that it honors the spirit of our recently-departed Executive Board Chairman
Capt. David Gore . Rest easy, Dave, we’re all still working on it. It’s just gonna take awhile.
Next in line, the article from Capt. Jeff Slesinger, the safety & training director at Seattle’s Western Towboat, is spot on as usual. This time he deftly captures the
yin and yang
of the challenges of on-the-fly risk assessment that are a regular part of our jobs. It’s a very compelling read, and you might want to check out the back issues for more of his fine writing. Capt. Slesinger is also the author of
MTVA Executive Board Chairman Capt. Doug Pine’s treatise on
sleep apnea , which originally appeared here in this forum a year ago, could be a life-saver for those who suffer from this serious malady. For those who want it, here’s the original, uncut version of
Sleep Apnea & the Professional Mariner , one of our most popular and widely read articles ever. Many thanks, again, Capt. Doug! You’ve done your fellow mariners a big service in highlighting this problem and telling the story of your struggles with it.
Finally, in
Hybrid Training Tug: Bringing Hands-On Training Back Aboard , MTVA Co-Director Capt. Jordan May explains where we’re coming from as an organization: our firmly held belief, based on what we think should be obvious reasons, that classrooms and reams of paper cannot substantially substitute for real on-deck, in-the-engine room, and wheelhouse training. To that end, the proposed MTVA hybrid-powered training tug may be the first big step in returning the most important aspects of training back to where much of it belongs: out on the water. We sincerely hope that our industry understands what’s at stake and is willing to work with us on this vitally important endeavor.
The rest of the issue is worth your time too, and the MTVA leadership looks forward to working with Dione and Dean in the future to help improve our industry and hopefully once again make it an attractive profession for young people with an itch to experience life outside the cubicle.
For more information on the
Master of Towing Vessels Association
click
here .
Leave a Comment
Posted in
General Interest
| Tags:
Capt. David Gore ,
Capt. Doug Pine ,
Capt. Jeff Slesinger ,
Capt. Jordan May ,
Master of Towing Vessels Association ,
MTVA ,
QSE Solutions ,
Safe Voyage Magazine
Posted by:
towmasters
| October 25, 2010
Photo Of The Week – 10/25/10
“I pity the fool!” : Buchanan Marine’s
Mister T
tows a pair of loaded stone scows outbound past the
Bay Ridge
shoreline of
Brooklyn
on a summer afternoon. Yo, Adrian! Oh, damn, that’s Philly.
1 Comment
Posted in
Photo of the Week
| Tags:
Brooklyn ,
Buchanan Marine ,
Mister T ,
New York Harbor ,
New York Upper Bay ,
stone scow
Posted by:
towmasters
| October 25, 2010
National Mariners Association October 2010 Newsletter
As always, Captain Richard Block has made his typically huge effort and rolled out another timely
newsletter
for we merchant mariners of the limited-tonnage sector. This issue in particular has a lot of important news that deserves your immediate attention, starting with the passage of the  Coast Guard Authorization Act
of 2010. Taking effect on December 15th of this year, it contains numerous changes to the law that you’ll want to be aware of. Some of these changes are, or at least have the potential to be, important gains for the working mariner. A clear
legal
requirement for employers to provide mariners with sea service letters? Check. Better mariner representation on the freshly-reauthorized Towing Safety Advisory Committee? Check. Towing vessel inspections finally moving forward? Check. There’s much to read, so read on!
Leave a Comment
Posted in
Newsletters
| Tags:
Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2010 ,
National Mariners Association ,
NMA Newsletter
Posted by:
towmasters
| October 17, 2010
Photos of the Week – 10/18/10
Behold…..
…..the mighty
Cornell . A 1949-vintage, single-screw “relic” railroad tug that many mariners of today would have a great deal of trouble maneuvering light boat, let alone with a barge. Sporting the original colors of her first owner, the
Lehigh Valley Railroad , she was built at the
Jakobson Shipyard
in
Oyster Bay
on
Long Island
to move car floats around
New York Harbor , and particularly upon the
Harlem River .
She is still active today: these photos were taken this summer along the
North River
on Manhattan’s west side. Click
here
for the full history and specs on
Cornell , which is most certainly
old-school
in the finest tradition.
1 Comment
Posted in
Photo of the Week
| Tags:
Conventional Tugs ,
Cornell ,
Harlem River ,
Jakobson Shipyard ,
Lehigh Valley Railroad ,
Long Island ,
New York Harbor ,
Old-School ,
Oyster Bay ,
Railroad Tug ,
Single-screw
Posted by:
towmasters
| October 4, 2010
Photos Of The Week – 10/4/10
Barge…..
…..on…..
…..the…..
…..wire.
Somewhere in the mighty  Gulf Stream .
2 Comments
Posted in
Photo of the Week
| Tags:
Atlantic Ocean ,
Conventional Tugs ,
Donut ,
Doughnut ,
Oil Barge ,
Roller ,
Texas Bar ,
The Gulf Stream ,
Tow Wire ,
Towing Vessels ,
Wire Rope Hawser
Posted by:
towmasters
| September 27, 2010
Photo Of The Week – 9/27/10
Barge on the wire: Gulf of Mexico, Summer 2010.
1 Comment
Posted in
Photo of the Week
| Tags:
Conventional Tugs ,
Gulf of Mexico ,
Oil Barge ,
Towing Vessels ,
Tugboats
Posted by:
towmasters
| September 25, 2010
Bon Voyage, Capt. David Gore: A Final Farewell To Our Chairman
It is with sadness and regret that we announce that Captain David Gore, Chairman of the
Master of Towing Vessels Association
Executive Board, passed away onboard the tug
Royal Melbourne
last Monday in Richmond,
California. Dave was born October 9, 1943 in Seattle and grew up in Longview,
Washington. There he spent much of his youth fascinated with watching the ships and tugs ply up and down the Columbia
River near his home. While his brother pursued a career in commercial fishing, Dave worked in the marine shipping and transportation industry, making a career out of his childhood fascinations, spending most of the time with various steamship lines and only entering into the towing industry later in life. His most recent years were with Harley Marine Services, serving in a variety of positions. After working ashore in what he referred to as “those goddamn necktie years” Dave eventually returned to the water and was operating tugs in the San
Francisco Bay area. He is certainly missed by his family, friends and colleagues, and will be remembered by each in their own way.
I met Dave about three years ago after transferring to S.F. Bay from Alaska. Getting to know his quirks and traits was very interesting, and he was definitely not your average tug skipper, if there is such a thing. He had the mind and ability to do almost anything and could just as easily have served as the Ambassador to Norway as be a tug captain. However, he really dug being a tug captain and that was the role Dave chose. One especially valuable skill he had was the ability to grasp and reason with a complicated subject using a calculated and methodical approach, all while considering the side effects and implications of any action. This made him a very predictable tug operator with a strategy and bailout plan for the most difficult of situations. Dave always stressed how in this industry you are often only one step away from a major catastrophe, and he planned accordingly. He also stressed the value of having a basic level of professionalism, an appropriate level of oversight, and the importance of some common sense in the standards and procedures of our industry.
A couple years ago, after having taken the time to learn what our M.T.V. Association was all about, he came onboard to begin helping with the effort. When we formed our 7-member executive board, Dave was nominated for and then elected as chairman. He could easily have declined and spared himself the headaches, but he didn’t. He apparently saw enough virtue with this organization to accept the position and try to help us reach our goals. From what I know of him, Dave didn’t jump on too many bandwagons in his life and you would be hard pressed to make him endorse anything he thought was a stupid idea. One of my last conversations with him was about the MTVA Training Tug and why he thought it could provide a real benefit to the towing industry and spur some serious interest from potential recruits. He shared an interesting story which shed some light on why he, or I, or anyone, might want to volunteer their own time to do this.
When Dave was still fairly green, and had been busting his ass on the deck of a tug for a while, a day came when the captain called him up to the wheelhouse and asked him to steer for a spell. Dave, a little surprised, took the helm and asked a few questions. The captain gave him some pointers, and over time he eventually began steering on a regular basis and really learning the wheelhouse. After a watch one day he thanked the captain for taking the time to work with him and tried to express just how grateful he was for the effort spent to develop his potential. That’s when the captain explained that Dave certainly wasn’t getting these lessons for free. There was a catch with which he had to agree to in exchange for the time and energy put forth on his behalf. The captain described how he had learned the trade from an old man who recognized his potential. That captain had taken the time and shown the patience to work with him and develop his seamanship skills. He had been asked to make a similar deal as a beginner and this was their way of passing it on. If Dave wanted to keep learning he would have to agree to this “deal.” When Dave was the veteran, and came across a sailor with some potential who was hungry and willing to learn, he would then have to pay back the time and the effort, or “pay it forward” as they say today. Dave never forgot that deal and he said it was part of why he was involved in the M.T.V. Association and why he took some joy from passing on what he knew.
Not too many months age we lost another senior captain named Daniel Nystrom. Like Dave, Dan was a veteran and a mentor who possessed an ability and a willingness to pay forward the skills and knowledge of a trade he had spent a lifetime acquiring. Like Dave, Dan also took pride in teaching what he knew and was part of the M.T.V.A. for some of the same reasons.
This really puts in perspective what we sometimes do and how our trade is learned. While some things can be effectively taught, and sometimes are even best taught, in a classroom, most practical aspects of our profession require considerable time on board and underway for someone to learn and master. It also takes considerable time and effort on board from someone to teach them. With this in mind we will stay the course and make whatever progress we possibly can. I’m sure Dave would be sorely disappointed if we did anything else besides pay it forward.
Capt. Jordan May
Co-Director, Master of Towing Vessels Association
2 Comments
Posted in
General Interest
| Tags:
Capt. David Gore ,
Master of Towing Vessels Association ,
Tug Royal Melbourne
Posted by:
towmasters
| September 24, 2010
National Mariners Association Newsletter: August-September 2010
As always,
National Mariners Association
Secretary-Treasurer Capt. Richard Block has put out another stellar effort for the  August-September 2010 N.M.A. Newsletter . If you want to know what you should be paying attention to there is no better place to start. In addition, every back issue since January 2007 has been archived for your
24-7-365
access right
here
if you want to catch up on what you’ve been missing. Read and learn…..if you dare.
Leave a Comment
Posted in
Newsletters
| Tags:
National Mariners Association
Posted by:
towmasters
| September 17, 2010
MERPAC Meeting Canceled: Mariners Left Out In The Cold Again?
September’s regularly scheduled Merchant Marine Personnel Advisory
Committee (MERPAC) meeting was cancelled.
The Coast Guard cites failure
to have a “signed” charter as the reason.
With MERPAC committee
members in the dark about MERPAC’s future the Coast Guard can make key
STCW decisions without important stakeholder input.
Does the Coast
Guard have the expertise and/or the best interests of our U.S. mariners
at the heart of their decision-making process?
Established in 1992 at
the request of the Coast Guard Commandant, the MERPAC advises the
Secretary of the Department of Homeland Security (DHS). There is a fire of doubt of a possible hidden agenda fueled by the
removal of the exam questions and answer database from the National
Maritime Center’s web page and the concealing of Coast Guard policy
letters from the public.
Their tight-lipped approach to issuing the
proposed new sub-chapter M towing vessel regulations reveals a philosophy of
“no information is good information.”
This does not sit well with
mariners who expect the Coast Guard to operate within the traditions of
our free and transparent society.
After hearing about a
recent article
at
MaritimeProfessional
stating
that the Coast Guard had signed on to the STCW revisions at the June IMO
meeting in Manila, I called Ms. Mayte Medina at the Coast Guard to
reaffirm their intent to publish a Supplemental Notice of Proposed
Rulemaking (SNPRM) as a next step to STCW as was promised in April.
This “supplemental” notice would describe any proposed changes from the
original notice and seek comments from the public on those proposed
changes. The Coast Guard decided to go back to the drawing board after an outcry
from industry during the last NPRM comment period.
Ms. Medina
explained that the STCW process requires the Coast Guard to review
anything done at the international level before it can become part of
the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR’s).
She assured me that we would see
a notice on the revisions sometime in the future opening them up for public
comment.
The new additions to STCW could have a far reaching effect in the
United States.
As such, the Coast Guard will have a host of issues on
their plate, because the sweeping overhaul of the rules include, among
other things:
Improved measures to prevent fraudulent practices associated with
certificates of competency and strengthen the evaluation process
(monitoring of each country’s compliance with the Convention).
Revised requirements on hours of work and rest and new requirements
for the prevention of drug and alcohol abuse, as well as updated
standards relating to medical fitness standards for seafarers.
New certification requirements for “able seafarers.”
New training requirements for modern technology such as electronic charts and information systems (ECDIS).
New requirements for marine environment awareness training and training in leadership and teamwork.
New training and certification requirements for electro-technical officers.
Updating competency requirements for personnel serving on board all
types of tankers, including new requirements for personnel serving on
liquefied gas tankers.
New requirements for security training, as well as provisions to
ensure that seafarers are properly trained to cope if their ship comes
under attack by pirates.
Introduction of modern training methodology including distance learning and web-based learning.
New training guidance for personnel serving on board ships operating in polar waters.
New training and guidance for personnel who operate “Dynamic Positioning Systems.”
It is always a significant event when the Coast Guard cancels
any
advisory committee meeting.
Each meeting is one of the most direct ways
for the public to provide their input to the Coast Guard.
In this
case input from our mariners would have been very important because
MERPAC had some tasks relating to the implementation of the 2010
amendments to the STCW Convention that will come into force on Jan. 1,
2012.
Timing of the meeting’s cancellation is both curious and
potentially crippling to the interests of our mariners.
The Shipping Operations Cooperative Program (SOCP) offered to step in
and meet at MITAGS (on Sept. 8 & 9) to discuss the full range of
subject matter related to the so-called “Manila” STCW amendments.
SOCP
addresses and promotes commercial development of new methods,
procedures, and technologies, and this effort makes sense in the absence of
MERPAC.
How the SOCP rescue effort will be received by the regulatory
part of the U.S. Coast Guard has yet to be determined.
I asked Ms.
Medina why MERPAC members and SOCP could not continue their work through
TSAC work groups to give the uncompleted tasks an official capacity, as that could be a possible solution in filling the void.
The National Mariners Association has been around long enough to
witness “end runs and broken promises” by the Coast Guard so there is
sound reasoning behind our paranoia.
There still remains an important question
unanswered: has the Coast Guard met the legal conditions of the treaty
that requires taking the “new” 1005 amendments back to the United States
Senate for formal ratification.
We see their failure to do this as an
“end run” and something they should have done fifteen years ago.
As a
military force given sweeping powers of law enforcement and
supervision over the U.S. Merchant Marine by Congress, there are serious
implications if the Coast Guard goes ahead with an international treaty
that walks all over our “limited-tonnage” mariners who represent a
majority of all merchant mariners.
Mariners who work on tugs and towboats must keep their eyes on the
ball and speak out on these STCW revisions. How much will it cost to
advance and maintain your credentials, especially those with obtuse
STCW wording, if the Coast Guard plows ahead without ensuring that
these revisions are fair and backed by the mariners who work in the
industry?
Haven’t we had enough crammed down our throats in the last
five years? Since 2006 the Coast Guard has been telling us that the “hawsepiper”
was an important part of the training process.
The folks at the National Maritime Center
promised a distance-learning program for the hawsepipe mariner that
would guarantee them an equal opportunity.
Between the chatter the Coast
Guard continues to partner with the schools and create policies that
block our working mariner’s career path.
They have built a cottage
industry around the licensing and training process with the cost placed
on the backs of our mariners.
Hawsepipers are simply being priced out
of the market.
Is it simply a coincidence that these approved schools are
filled with retired Coasties who just happen to be making big bucks as a
result of these Coast Guard policies? Without proper revision and
oversight of the STCW rulemaking, our hawsepipers are doomed.
For the
price of a cup of coffee mariners could keep it open.
Captain Joe Dady
President, National Mariners Association
Towing Safety Advisory Committee Member
1 Comment
Posted in
Licensing & Certification
| Tags:
Merchant Marine Personnell Advisory Committee ,
MERPAC ,
National Mariime Center ,
National Mariners Association ,
NMC ,
STCW Convention ,
Towing Safety Advisory Committee ,
TSAC ,
U.S. Coast Guard ,
USCG
« Newer Posts
-
Older Posts »
Categories
Casualties
Accident Investigation Reports
Allisions
Capsizings
Collisions
Founderings or Sinkings
Groundings
Communications
Equipment & Technology
Deck Gear & Equipment
Navigation Equipment
Propulsion Systems & Technology
Safety & Survival Gear
General Interest
Humor
Licensing & Certification
F.C.C. Radio Licensing & Regulations
Medical Standards
S.T.C.W.
T.W.I.C.
U.S.C.G. Licensing & Certification Standards & Regulations
Apprentice Mate / Steersman (Western Rivers)
Masters
Mates / Pilots (Western Rivers)
Pilots – Federal & State
Marine Regulations
Alcohol & Drug Testing
Manning & Watches
Pilotage
Marine Safety
CEMS
Deck Safety
Fatigue
Navigation Safety Advisory Council
Risk Management
Towing Safety
Towing Safety Advisory Committee
Water Survival
Maritime Employment
Maritime Security & National Defense
Nautical Terminology
Newsletters
Noteworthy Comments
Photo of the Week
Random Shots
Routes & Waters
Great Lakes
Inland
Near Coastal
Oceans
Western Rivers
Seamanship
Maintenance
Navigation & Communications
Tug & Towboat Seamanship
Towing Vessels
A.T.B.'s
Articulated Tug & Barge
Ship-Assist Tugs
Towboats
Tractor Tugs
Tugboats
Training & Education
U.S. Coast Guard
Uncategorized
Vessel Design
Work Clothing & Gear
Foul Weather Gear
Knives & Tools
Work Clothing
Email Subscription
Enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Join 376 other followers
Subscribe in a RSS reader
Pages
About Us
Contact Info
Join Us
News
Maritime Industry Newsletters
Info
MTVA Sea Time Flyers
National Mariners Association Reports
Short Sea Shipping
Navigation & Communications
C.G. Administrative Law Judge Program
Court Decisions
U.S. Legislation & Regulatory Projects
Maritime Laws & Regulations – U.S.A.
Maritime Laws & Regulations – Canada
Maritime Laws & Regulations – U.K.
Maritime Laws & Regulations – Australia
Maritime Laws & Regulations – New Zealand
Maritime Laws & Regulations – International
Search & Rescue
Mariner Credentialing
Training & Ed.
Jobs
Gear
Towing Tech
Safety
Navigation
Articles
Regulatory Info, NVIC’s, Policy Letters, Guides, Papers, Reports & Studies
Safety Recommendations From The NTSB
USCG Safety Alerts, Advisories & Lessons Learned
Marine Accident Reports
Library
Accident Reports & Analysis
Accident Investigation Board Finland – Marine Investigations
Accident Investigation Board Norway – Marine Reports
Australian Transport Safety Bureau – Marine Safety
Bob Couttie’s Maritime Accident Casebook
Danish Maritime Authority – Accident Investigation Reports
GenDisasters – Shipping
German Federal Bureau of Maritime Casualty Investigation – Investigation Reports
Hong Kong Marine Dept. – Accident Investigation Reports
Irish Marine Casualty Investigation Board
National Commission on the BP Deepwater Horizon Oil Spill & Offshore Drilling (USA)
New Zealand Transport Accident Investigation Commission – Marine Reports
Off Soundings
Swedish Transport Agency – Shipping Accident Investigation Reports
Transportation Safety Board of Canada
U.K. Marine Accident Investigation Branch
U.S. National Transportation Safety Board – Marine Accident Reports
Blogroll
59˚56' N: Marine Media, PR & Innovation
70.8%
Adventures Of The Black Gang
BitterEnd
Bowsprite: A New York Harbor Sketchbook
Cape Ann Images
CarolinaSalguero.com
Casco Bay Boaters Blog
Clay Maitland: on a quest for quality shipping
Cold Is The Sea
Fish Sniffer Online
Freaque Waves
Fred Fry International
gCaptain
HarborHeroes.org
Jack Tar Magazine
Lighthouse News
Manu's scripts: a sailor's 5th column
Marine Cafe Blog
Maritime Compass
Maritime Licensing Blog
Maritime Memos: A Somewhat Opinionated Commentary On U.S. & Canadian Maritime Matters
Maritime Texas Blog
ModelTugForum.com
Nautical Log
Naval History Blog – U.S. Naval Institute
New England Lighthouses
New York Central No. 13
Panbo: The Marine Electronics Weblog
PortSide NewYork
Red Right Returning
Sailors, Mariners & Warriors League
Sea Fever
Shipspotting.com
The Gloucester I love
The Log
The Maritime
The Maritime Site
The Misunderstood Mariner
The Monitor
The Mother Of All Maritime Links – John's Nautical Links List
The Old Salt Blog
Tide And Current
Trawlers & Tugs Blog
tugster: a waterblog
U.S. Shipbuilding History
Ugly Ships
UnderwaterTimes.com
Weekly Leader
WordPress.com
WordPress.org
Blogroll - Working Mariners
Bills of Lading
Breezing Up
Capt. Richard Rodriguez' BitterEnd Blog
CGC Escanaba Blog
DEEP WATER WRITING: of a life at sea and on shore
HAWESPIPER: The Longest Climb
Kennebec Captain
KIWI AT SEA: Tall tales from a short seaman
Manu's scripts: a sailor's 5th column
Nautical Log
NY Tugmaster’s Weblog
OneEighteen’s Photostream
Pelican Passage
Pinoy Maritime
Red Right Returning
shipshooter.com
The Art of Dredging
The Maritime Site
The Merchant Marine Express: Memoires of a Merchant Mariner
The Misunderstood Mariner
Tim’s Times: Ship stories and other stuff
Classification Societies
American Bureau of Shipping (ABS) – U.S.A.
Bureau Veritas (BV) – France
Det Norske Veritas (DNV) – Norway
Germanischer LLoyd (GL) – Germany
International Association of Classification Societies (IACS) – London, England
Lloyd's Register (LR) – U.K.
Coast Guard Blogs & News
C.G. Marine Safety Blog
CG Atlantic Area – Director of Operations
CGBlog.org
CGC Escanaba Blog
CGD5 Prevention Blog
Coast Guard Digest
Coast Guard Journal
Coast Guard News
Coast Guard Report
iCommandant
Mario Vittone
The Coast Guard Compass
topix: GAO looks into Coast Guard
U.S. Coast Guard Tug Association
Marine Industry News
America’s Marine Highways
American Shipper’s Newswire
Baird Maritime Online News
BIMCO: the Baltic & International Maritime Council
Bryant’s Maritime Blog
Electronic Captain
gCaptain
International Tug & Salvage Magazine
INTERTANKO
LLoyd's List Newsroom Blog
Marine Cafe Blog
Marine Log
MarineLink
Maritime Journal (U.K.)
Maritime Memos: A Somewhat Opinionated Commentary On U.S. & Canadian Maritime Matters
Maritime News
Maritime.com
MaritimeProfessional.com
MTS Matters
Professional Mariner News
Rigzone
Riverchat
Safety4Sea News
SustainableShipping.com
The Maritime Executive
Tugboatlife.com
Wheelhouse Report
WorkBoat News
Marine Safety
Australian Maritime Safety Authority
C.G. Marine Safety Blog
CGD5 Prevention Blog
Clay Maitland: on a quest for quality shipping
COSPAS-SARSAT Satellite System
Danish Maritime Authority
European Marine Safety Agency
International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea (SOLAS), 1974
International Safety Management (ISM) Code, 2002
Mario Vittone
Maritime New Zealand
MCAOrals
Safety4Sea
South African Maritime Safety Authority
The Fatigue Forum
The Pacific States – British Columbia Oil Spill Task Force
Towing Vessel National Center of Expertise – USCG
Transport Canada – Marine Safety
U.K. Marine Safety Forum
U.K. Maritime & Coastguard Agency
U.S. Coast Guard – Marine Safety, Security & Stewardship
U.S. Coast Guard – Proceedings of the Marine Safety & Security Council
U.S.C.G. Safety Advisory Committees
Marine Transportation Policy & Advocacy Organizations
America’s Marine Highways
American Maritime Partnership
FarmBoat.org
Highway H2O
Long Island Sound Ferry Coalition – L.I. Sound Waterborne Transportation Plan
Marine Highways Cooperative
Metropolitan Waterfront Alliance
MTS Matters
National Waterways Conference
NY Harbor Shipping Cooperative
PortSide NewYork
SustainableShipping.com
The Partnership for Sustainable Ports
Waterways Council, Inc.
Mariner Associations
International Tugmasters Association
Master of Towing Vessels Association
National Mariners Association
Mariner Licensing & Certification
Australian Maritime Safety Authority – Marine Qualifications
Maritime Licensing Blog
Maritime New Zealand – Seafarer Licensing
Transport Canada – Marine Training, Examination & Certification
U.K. Maritime & Coastguard Agency – Training & Certification
U.S. Coast Guard – National Maritime Center
Mariner Licensing Consultants
Broad Sound Consulting – East Boston, MA
Grossetti License Consulting – Framingham, MA
Sea K's Maritime Licensing Service – Temperance, MI
USCG License Consultants – Port Orchard, WA
Maritime Booksellers
American Nautical Services
Bluewater Books & Charts
Captain's Nautical Supplies
Celestaire
Landfall Navigation
Marine Education Textbooks
Maryland Nautical
New York Nautical
Pilothouse Charts, Inc.
Schiffer Publishing
The Nautical Mind
Maritime Consultants
Bryant's Maritime Consulting
International Marine Cosultancy (IMC) Brokers
QSE Solutions
Ship and Tug
ShipMasterLaw.com – Washington, DC
Towing Solutions, Inc.
Maritime Security & National Defense
CDR Salamander
EagleSpeak
Fred Fry International
Information Dissemination
Int. Maritime Bureau – Piracy Reporting Centre
Modern Day Pirate Tales
Nat. Maritime Security Advisory Committee Blog
Planet Data – Maritime Security
U.S. Naval Institute Blog
Nautical History
GenDisasters – Shipping
Naval History Blog – U.S. Naval Institute
Shipbuilding History
Navigation & Communications
Accunav Solutions – Pub Corrections
Bowditch Online
COSPAS-SARSAT Satellite System
Galileo Satellite Navigation System – European Space Agency
GPS World
Handbook of the Nautical Rules of the Road
NOAA Chart Updates
NOAA Space Weather Prediction Center – Space Wx Alerts
NOAA's Electronic Navigation Chart Downloads
NOAA's On-Line Chart Viewer
Notices to Mariners – Canada DFO
Ocean Charting Services – Chart & Pub Correction Service
Research & Radionavigation – Gen. Lighthouse Authorities of the U.K. & Ireland
River Charts
Royal Institute of Navigation – Marine Traffic & Navigation Group
U.K. Hydrographic Office
U.S. Coast Guard Navigation Center
U.S. Coast Pilot Downloads
U.S. Geological Survey
U.S. Local Notice to Mariners – USCG
U.S. National Ice Center
U.S. Notice to Mariners – Nat. Geospatial-Intelligence Agency
USCG – Global Positioning System
USCG – Loran-C
USCG – Maritime Differential GPS Service
USCG – Maritime Telecommunications
USCG – National Distress System
USCG – Rescue 21 Communications System
Oceanography
Data Buoy Cooperation Panel
Dept. of the Navy / Office of Naval Reasearch – Oceanography Section
GoMOOS: Gulf of Maine Ocean Observing System
Irish Marine Institute
National Oceanic & Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) – USA
National Oceanography Centre, Southampton (NOC) – UK
NOAA – Center for Operational Oceanographic Products & Services (CO-OPS)
NOAA – Physical Oceanographic Real-Time System (PORTS)
NOAA – National Data Buoy Center (NDBC)
NOAA: National Ocean Service (NOS) – USA
NOAA: National Oceanographic Data Center (NODC) – USA
NWS – Real-Time Ocean Forecast System (Atlantic)
Scripps Institution of Oceanography – San Diego, CA
Skidaway Institute of Oceanography – Skidaway Island, GA
Stevens Inst. of Technology – Urban Ocean Observatory
U.S. Naval Oceanography Portal
Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution – Woods Hole, MA
Regulatory Info
29 CFR – Part 1910: Occupational Safety & Health Standards
33 CFR – Navigation & Navigable Waters
46 CFR – Shipping
47 CFR – Telecommunication
49 CFR – Transportation
International Maritime Organization
National Ballast Information Clearinghouse – Reports
O.S.H.A. Assistance for the Maritime Industry
Towing Vessel National Center of Expertise – USCG
Transport Canada: List of Marine Transportation Acts
U.S. Code – Title 33: Navigation & Navigable Waters
U.S. Code – Title 46: Shipping
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency – No-Discharge Zones for Vessel Sewage
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency – Vessel General Permit Program
U.S.C.G. National Maritime Center – Policy Letters
U.S.C.G. Navigation & Vessel Inspection Circulars (NVIC’s)
Salvage Organizations & Info
American Salvage Association
International Salvage Union
Search & Rescue Agencies and Organizations
AMVER
Association for Rescue at Sea
Australian Volunteer Coast Guard Association
Canadian Coast Guard
Royal New Zealand Coastguard Federation
South African National Sea Rescue Institute
U.K. Maritime & Coastguard Agency
U.K. Royal National Lifeboat Institute
U.S. Coast Guard – Office of Search & Rescue
Short Sea Shipping
64 Express
Alaska Marine Lines
American Feeder Line
Bridgeport & Port Jefferson Ferry
CoastalConnect – Moving Freight Forward
Columbia Coastal Transport
Cross Sound Ferry Services
Crowley Maritime – U.S. Liner Services
Detroit-Windsor Truck Ferry
Foss Maritime
Horizon Lines
Matson Navigation
New York New Jersey Rail, LLC
New York State Marine Highway Transportation Co.
OSG – Overseas Shipholding Group
Osprey Line
The Tioga Group
Totem Ocean Trailer Express, Inc.
Trailer Bridge
Towing Technology, Safety & Seamanship
Aleutian Emergency Towing System
Animated Knots by Grog
ARTICOUPLE & TRIOFIX ATB-Coupling Systems
Dynamic Oval Towing System – Mampaey Offshore Industries
Hydraconn ATB Connection System
INTERCON ATB-Coupler System
JAK ATB-Coupling System
NautiCAN Integrated Propulsion Systems
Ocean Tug & Barge Engineering
Robert Allan Ltd. Naval Architects & Marine Engineers
Ship and Tug
Society of Naval Architects & Marine Engineers
The Pacific States – British Columbia Oil Spill Task Force
Towing Safety Advisory Committee (TSAC)
Towing Solutions, Inc.
Towing Vessel National Center of Expertise – USCG
Towingline.com
Tug&Salvage.com
U.S. Navy Towing Manual
Westec ATB Clamp System
Trade Associations
American Salvage Association
BIMCO: the Baltic & International Maritime Council
INTERTANKO
National Marine Electronics Association
Offshore Marine Services Association
Passenger Vessel Association
The American Waterways Operators
World Shipping Council
Tug Geek Stuff
The Great Big Site of Tugboats
Tugboat Alley
Tugboat Bay
Tugboat Information.com
Water Safety, Survival & Rescue / Medical, Firefighting and Damage Control Gear & Info
Cold Water Boot Camp
Crewsaver Industrial & Commercial Products
Equipped to Survive
Greatland Laser – Rescue Laser Flare
Hypothermia.org
Industrial Fire World – Articles
Jason's Cradle MOB Rescue System
Life Safer Inc. – Personal Retriever
Lifesaving Systems Corp.
Marine Lightning Protection
Medicine for Mariners
National Lightning Safety Institute
PFA-95 Portable Foam Applicator / Seld-Educting Vari Nozzle
SeaKits Damage Control Kit
The Marine Firefighting Institute
Weather & Waves - USA & Canada
Buoyweather – the Global Marine Forecasting Solution
CBIBS: Chesapeake Bay Interpretive Buoy System
Environment Canada – Weather Office: Canadian Hurricane Centre
Environment Canada – Weather Office: Marine Weather
GoMOOS: Gulf of Maine Ocean Observing System
Hurricane Havens Handbook for the North Atlantic Ocean
Hurricane Havens Handbook for the Western Pacific & Indian Oceans
Lee Chesneau's Marine Weather
Marine Lightning Protection
Mariners Weather Log
National Lightning Safety Institute
National Weather Service (NWS) – USA
NDBC – Dial-A-Buoy Service
NDBC – Mobile Access
NOAA – National Data Buoy Center (NDBC)
NWS – Advanced Hydrologic Prediction Service
NWS – Marine Forecasts
NWS – National Hurricane Center
NWS – Ocean Prediction Center
PassageWeather.com
Stormsurf
The New England Wx Page
U.S. Naval Research Laboratory / Marine Meteorology Div. – Monterey, CA
U.S. Navy & Air Force Joint Typhoon Warning Center (JTWC) – Pearl Harbor, HI
UConn MYSound – Long Island Sound Wx Observations
Weather Underground – Marine Wx
Weather Underground – Tropical Wx & Hurricanes/Cyclones
Weather.Org
WxWorx on Water
Weather & Waves - Worldwide
Australian Bureau of Meterology – Marine & Ocean Weather
Buoyweather – the Global Marine Forecasting Solution
Hurricane Havens Handbook for the North Atlantic Ocean
Hurricane Havens Handbook for the Western Pacific & Indian Oceans
Irish Meteorological Service – MET Eireann
New Zealand MetService – Marine Weather
PassageWeather.com
U.K. Met Office – Marine Weather
UK Met Office – Shipping forecast & gale warnings
UK Weather Buoys – Newton-Noss.uk.co
Weatherzone Australia – Marine Weather
Archives
Archives
Select Month
August 2011  (4)
July 2011  (2)
June 2011  (7)
May 2011  (8)
April 2011  (10)
March 2011  (4)
February 2011  (5)
January 2011  (7)
December 2010  (9)
November 2010  (5)
October 2010  (5)
September 2010  (4)
August 2010  (4)
July 2010  (5)
June 2010  (7)
May 2010  (9)
April 2010  (8)
March 2010  (11)
February 2010  (9)
January 2010  (8)
December 2009  (13)
November 2009  (10)
October 2009  (12)
September 2009  (8)
August 2009  (12)
July 2009  (12)
June 2009  (12)
May 2009  (9)
April 2009  (14)
March 2009  (17)
February 2009  (12)
January 2009  (12)
December 2008  (17)
November 2008  (13)
October 2008  (9)
September 2008  (10)
Categories
Categories
Select Category
A.T.B.’s
Accident Investigation Reports
Alcohol & Drug Testing
Allisions
Apprentice Mate / Steersman (Western Rivers)
Articulated Tug & Barge
Capsizings
Casualties
CEMS
Collisions
Communications
Deck Gear & Equipment
Deck Safety
Equipment & Technology
F.C.C. Radio Licensing & Regulations
Fatigue
Foul Weather Gear
Founderings or Sinkings
General Interest
Great Lakes
Groundings
Humor
Inland
Knives & Tools
Licensing & Certification
Maintenance
Manning & Watches
Marine Regulations
Marine Safety
Maritime Employment
Maritime Security & National Defense
Masters
Mates / Pilots (Western Rivers)
Medical Standards
Nautical Terminology
Navigation & Communications
Navigation Equipment
Navigation Safety Advisory Council
Near Coastal
Newsletters
Noteworthy Comments
Oceans
Photo of the Week
Pilotage
Pilots – Federal & State
Propulsion Systems & Technology
Random Shots
Risk Management
Routes & Waters
S.T.C.W.
Safety & Survival Gear
Seamanship
Ship-Assist Tugs
T.W.I.C.
Towboats
Towing Safety
Towing Safety Advisory Committee
Towing Vessels
Tractor Tugs
Training & Education
Tug & Towboat Seamanship
Tugboats
U.S. Coast Guard
U.S.C.G. Licensing & Certification Standards & Regulations
Uncategorized
Vessel Design
Water Survival
Western Rivers
Work Clothing
Work Clothing & Gear
2-watch System
30-Day Wonder
Ambrose Channel
American Waterways Operators
Arthur Kill
Articulated Tug & Barge
ATB
Barge
Barges
Bayonne
Bouchard Transportation Co.
Brooklyn
capsizing
Conventional Tugs
Delaware Bay
Delaware River
East River
Fatigue
foundering
GPS
grounding
Hudson River
Jersey City
K-Sea Transportation Co.
Kill Van Kull
Landfall Navigation
Manhattan
Marine Safety
Master of Towing Vessels
Master of Towing Vessels Association
Mate of Towing Vessels
McAllister Towing
Merchant Mariner Credential
MMC
Moran Towing
Moran Towing Co.
MTVA
National Mariners Association
National Maritime Center
New Jersey
New York City
New York Harbor
New York Upper Bay
North River
Oil Barge
Penn Maritime
Reinauer Transportation co.
Responsible Carrier Program
Ship Assist
ship assist tugs
Ship Assist Work
sinking
stability
Staten Island
STCW Convention
T.W.I.C.
Tank Barge
The Narrows
TOAR
Towing Alongside
Towing Astern
Towing Officers Assessment Record
Towing Safety Advisory Committee
Towing Vessel Licenses
Towing Vessels
Tow Wire
Tractor Tugs
Traditional License
TSAC
Tugboat
Tugboats
Tug Valour
U.S. Coast Guard
Vane Brothers
Weems & Plath
Create a free website or blog at WordPress.com . |
The Ocean Mist Theme .
Follow
Follow “Towmasters: the Master of Towing Vessels Assoc. Forum”
Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.
Join 376 other followers
Build a website with WordPress.com
Add your thoughts here... (optional)
Post to
Cancel