Headline
International Boxing Hall of Fame
"Sugar" Ray Robinson
From
Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Sugar Ray
Robinson
Statistics
Real name
Walker Smith Jr.
Nickname(s)
Sugar
Rated at
Lightweight ,
Welterweight ,
Middleweight ,
Light heavyweight
Nationality
American
Birth date
May 3 ,
1921 ( 1921-05-03 )
Birth place
Ailey, Georgia
Death date
April 12 ,
1989
(aged 67)
Death place
Culver City,
California
Stance
Orthodox
Boxing record
Total fights
202
Wins
175
Wins by KO
108
Losses
19
Draws
6
No contests
2
Sugar Ray
Robinson
(born
Walker
Smith Jr. ,
May 3 ,
1921
–
April 12 ,
1989 )
was a professional boxer. Frequently cited as the
greatest boxer of all time, Robinson's performances
at the
welterweight
and
middleweight
divisions prompted sportswriters to create " pound
for pound "
rankings, where they compared fighters regardless of
weight. He was inducted into the
International Boxing Hall of
Fame
in 1990.
Robinson was 85-0
as an amateur with 69 of those victories coming by
way of
knockout ,
40 in the first round. He turned professional in
1940 at the age of 19 and by 1951 had a professional
record of 128-1-2 with 84 knockouts. Robinson held
the world welterweight title from 1946 to 1951, and
won the world middleweight title in the latter year.
He retired in 1952, only to come back two and a half
years later and regain the middleweight title in
1955. He then became the first boxer in history to
win a divisional world championship five times, a
feat he accomplished by defeating
Carmen Basilio
in 1958 to regain the middleweight championship.
Robinson was named "fighter of the year" twice:
first for his performances in 1942, then nine years
and over 90 fights later, for his efforts in 1951.
He engaged in several multi-fight rivalries with
other Hall of Fame fighters such as
Jake LaMotta ,
Carmen Basilio ,
Gene Fullmer ,
and
Carl 'Bobo' Olson .
Robinson engaged in 200 pro bouts, and his
professional career lasted nearly 26 years.
Robinson was named
the greatest fighter of the 20th century by the
Associated Press ,
and the greatest boxer in history by ESPN.com in
2007.
The Ring
magazine rated him the best pound for pound boxer of
all-time in 1997, and its "Fighter of the Decade"
for the 1950s.
Muhammad Ali ,
who repeatedly called himself "The Greatest"
throughout his career, ranked Robinson as the
greatest boxer of all time. Other Hall of Fame
boxers such as
Joe Louis
and
Sugar Ray Leonard
said the same.
Renowned for his
flamboyant lifestyle outside the ring, Robinson is
credited with being the originator of the modern
sports " entourage ".
After his boxing career ended, Robinson attempted a
career as an entertainer, but struggled, and lived
in poverty until his death in 1989. In 2006, he was
featured on a commemorative stamp by the
United States Postal Service .
Early Life
Robinson was born
Walker Smith Jr. in either
Ailey, Georgia ,
(according to his birth certificate) — or
Detroit, Michigan ,
(according to his autobiography), [1]
to Walker Smith Sr. and Leila Hurst. [2]
Robinson was the youngest of three children; his
older sister Marie was born in 1917 and his older
sister Evelyn was born in 1919. His father was a
cotton, peanut, and corn farmer in Georgia, who
moved the family to Detroit where he initially found
work as a construction worker. [2]
According to Robinson, Smith Sr. later worked two
jobs to support his family—cement mixer and sewer
worker. "He had to get up at six in the morning and
he'd get home close to midnight. Six days a week.
The only day I really saw him was Sunday...I always
wanted to be with him more." [3]
His parents
separated and he moved with his mother to
Harlem ,
a neighborhood section of
Manhattan
in
New York City ,
at the age of twelve. Robinson originally aspired to
be a doctor, but after dropping out of De Witt
Clinton High school in
ninth grade
he switched his goal to boxing. [4]
When he was 14, he attempted to enter his first
boxing tournament but was told he needed to first
obtain an AAU membership card. However, he could not
procure one until he was sixteen years old. He
received his name when he circumvented the AAU's age
restriction by borrowing a card from his friend Ray
Robinson. [1]
Subsequently told that his style was "sweet as
sugar" by future manager George Gainford, Smith Jr.
became known as "Sugar" Ray Robinson. [5] [6]
Robinson idolized
Henry Armstrong
and
Joe Louis
as a youth, and actually lived on the same block as
Louis in Detroit when Robinson was 11 and Louis was
17. [6]
Robinson stated in his autobiography that he was
devastated when Louis lost to
Max Schmeling
in 1936—he even briefly contemplated quitting
boxing. [7]
Outside of the ring, Robinson got into trouble
frequently as a youth, and was involved with a
violent street gang. [6]
He also married when he was 16. He had one child
with his wife before divorcing her at the age of 19. [6]
He finished his amateur career with an 85–0 record
with 69 knockouts—40 coming in the first round. He
won the
Golden Gloves
featherweight
championship in 1939, and the organization's
lightweight
championship in 1940. [1]
Boxing career
Early career
Robinson made his
professional debut on
October 4 ,
1940 ,
winning via second-round knockout over
Joe Echevarria . [8]
Robinson fought five more times in 1940, winning
each time, with four wins coming by way of knockout. [8]
In 1941, he defeated world champion
Sammy Angott ,
future champion
Marty Servo
and former champion
Fritzie Zivic .
The Robinson-Angott fight was held above the
lightweight limit, since Angott did not want to risk
losing his lightweight title. Robinson defeated
Zivic in front of 20,551 at
Madison Square Garden —one
of the largest crowds in the arena to that date. [9]
Robinson won the first five rounds according to
The New York Times
Joseph C. Nichols, before
Zivic came back to land several punches to
Robinson's head in the sixth and seventh rounds. [9]
Robinson controlled the next two rounds, and had
Zivic wobbly in the ninth. After a close tenth
round, Robinson was announced as the winner on all
three scorecards. [9]
In 1942, Robinson
knocked out Zivic in the tenth round in a January
rematch. [8]
The knockout loss was only the second of Zivic's
career in more than 150 fights. [10]
Robinson knocked him down in the ninth and tenth
rounds before the referee stopped the fight. Zivic
and his corner protested the stoppage; James P.
Dawson of
The New York Times
stated, however,
that "[t]hey were criticizing a humane act. The
battle had been a slaughter, for want of a more
delicate word." [10]
Robinson then won four consecutive bouts by
knockout, before defeating Servo in a controversial
split decision in their May rematch. [8]
After winning three more fights, Robinson faced Jake
LaMotta, who would become one of his more prominent
rivals, for the first time in October. [8]
He defeated LaMotta via unanimous decision. Robinson
weighed 145 lb (66 kg) compared to 157.5 for LaMotta,
but he was able to control the fight from the
outside the entire bout, and actually landed the
harder punches during the fight. [11]
Robinson then won four more fights, including two
against
Izzy Jannazzo ,
from
October 19
to
December 14 . [8]
For his performances, Robinson was named "Fighter of
the Year". He finished 1942 with a total of 14 wins
and no losses. [8]
Robinson built a
record of 40–0 before losing for the first time to
LaMotta in a 10 round re-match. [12] [8]
LaMotta, who had a 16 lb (7.3 kg) weight advantage
over Robinson, knocked Robinson out of the ring in
the eighth round, and won the fight by decision. [8]
The fight took place in Robinson's former home town
of Detroit, and attracted a record crowd. [12]
After being controlled by Robinson in the early
portions of the fight, LaMotta came back to take
control in the later rounds. [12]
After winning the third LaMotta fight less than
three weeks later, [8]
Robinson then defeated his childhood idol former
champion
Henry Armstrong .
Robinson only fought Armstrong because Armstrong was
in need of finances. By now Armstrong was an old
fighter, and Robinson later stated that he carried
Armstrong.
On
February 27 ,
1943 ,
Robinson was inducted into the
United States Army ,
where he was again referred to as Walker Smith. [13]
Robinson had a short 15 month military career.
Robinson served with Joe Louis, and the pair went on
tours where they performed exhibition bouts in front
of US troops. Robinson got into trouble several
times while in the military. He argued with
superiors who he felt were discriminatory against
him, and refused to fight exhibitions when he was
told African American soldiers were not allowed to
watch them. [6] [14]
In 1944, Robinson was examined by Military
authorities who claimed he had a mental deficiency. [15]
Robinson received his
honorable discharge
on
June 3 ,
1944 . [16]
Robinson did develop a close friendship with Louis
while in the military however, and the two went into
business together after returning from service. They
planned to start a liquor distribution business in
New York City, but were denied a license due to
their race. [17]
Besides the loss
in the LaMotta rematch, the only other mark on
Robinson's record during this period was a 10 round
draw against
Jose Basora
in 1945. [8]
Welterweight Champion
By 1946, Robinson
had fought 75 fights to a 73–1–1 record, [8]
and beaten every top contender in the welterweight
division. However, he refused to cooperate with the
Mafia ,
which controlled much of boxing at the time, and was
denied a chance to fight for the welterweight
championship. [18]
Robinson was finally given a chance to win a title
against
Tommy Bell
on
December 20 ,
1946 . [8]
Robinson had already beaten Bell once via decision
in 1945. The two fought for the title vacated by
Servo, who had himself lost twice to Robinson in
non-title bouts. In the fight, Robinson, who only a
month before had been involved in a 10 round brawl
with
Artie Levine ,
was knocked down by Bell. [8]
The fight was called a "war," but Robinson was able
to pull out a close 15 round decision, winning the
vacant welterweight title.
The following
year, after four non-title bouts, Robinson defended
his title for the first time by knocking out
Jimmy Doyle ,
in the eighth round. [8]
Before that fight, Robinson had a dream that he was
going to accidentally kill Doyle in the ring. [19]
As a result, he decided to pull out of the fight.
However, a priest and a minister convinced him to go
ahead with the bout. His foe, however, died from the
injuries he sustained. [19]
Robinson said that the impact of Doyle's death was
"very trying."
In 1948, Robinson
fought five times, but only one bout was a title
defense. Among the fighters he defeated in those
non-title bouts, was future world champion
Kid Gavilan
in a close, controversial 10 round fight. Gavilan
hurt Robinson several times in the fight, but
Robinson controlled the final rounds with a series
of jabs and left hooks. [20]
In 1949, he boxed 16 times, but again only defended
his title once. In that title fight, a rematch with
Gavilan, Robinson again won via decision. The first
half of the bout was very close, but Robinson took
control in the second half. Gavilan would have to
wait two more years to begin his own historic reign
as welterweight champion. The only boxer to match
Robinson that year was
Henry Brimm ,
who fought him to a 10-round draw in
Buffalo .
Robinson fought 19
times in 1950. [8]
He successfully defended his welterweight title for
the last time against
Charley Fusari .
Robinson won a lopsided 15 round decision, knocking
Fusari down once. [8]
Robinson donated all but $1 of his purse for the
Fusari fight to cancer research. [21]
In 1950, Robinson fought
George Costner ,
who had also taken to calling himself "Sugar" and
stated in the weeks leading up to the fight that he
was the rightful deserver of the name. "We better
touch gloves, because this is the only round,"
Robinson said as the fighters were introduced at the
center of the ring. "Your name ain't Sugar, mine
is." [22]
Robinson then knocked Costner out in 2 minutes and
49 seconds. [8]
Middleweight Champion
Robinson stated in
his autobiography that one of the main
considerations for his move up to middleweight was
the increasing difficulty he was having in making
the 147 lb (67 kg) welterweight weight limit. [23]
However, the move would also prove beneficial
financially as the division then contained some of
the biggest names in boxing. Vying for the
Pennsylvania
state middleweight title in 1950, Robinson defeated
Robert Villemain . [8]
Later that year, in defense of that crown, he
defeated Jose Basora, who had previously drawn with
Robinson. Robinson's 50-second knock-out of Basora
in the rematch set a record that would stand for 38
years. Robinson then defeated
Carl Olson ,
a future title holder at that weight whom Robinson
later met and defeated three more times.
On
February 14 ,
1951 ,
Robinson and LaMotta met for the sixth time. The
fight would become known as
The St. Valentine's
Day Massacre . Robinson won the undisputed world
middleweight
title with a 13th round technical
knockout . [8]
Robinson out boxed LaMotta for the first 10 rounds,
then unleashed a series of savage combinations on
LaMotta for three rounds [6] ,
finally stopping the champion for the first time in
their legendary six bout series—and giving LaMotta
his first legitimate knockout loss in 95
professional bouts. [24]
This bout, and some of the other bouts in the
six-fight Robinson-LaMotta rivalry, was depicted in
the
Martin Scorsese
film
Raging Bull .
"I fought Sugar Ray so often, I almost got
diabetes," LaMotta later said. [5]
After winning his
second world title, he embarked on a
European
tour which took him all over the Continent. Robinson
travelled with his flamingo-pink
Cadillac ,
which caused quite a stir in
Paris , [25]
and an entourage of 13 people, some included "just
for laughs". [26]
He was a hero in France due to his recent defeat of
LaMotta—the French hated LaMotta for defeating
Marcel Cerdan
in 1949 and taking his championship belt (Cerdan
died in a plane ride en route to his rematch with
LaMotta). [6]
Robinson even met the President of France and made
an impromptu decision to kiss his wife four
times—twice on each cheek—in front of a ceremony
attended by France's upper crust. [27]
During his fight in Berlin against
Gerhard Hecht ,
Robinson was disqualified when he knocked his
opponent with a punch to the kidney: a punch legal
in the US, but not Europe. [19]
The fight was later declared a no-contest. [8]
In London, he lost the world middleweight title to
Englishman
Randy Turpin
in a sensational bout. [28]
Three months later in front of 60,000 fans at the
Polo Grounds , [19]
he knocked Turpin out in ten rounds to recover the
title. In that bout Robinson was leading on the
cards but was cut by Turpin. With the fight in
jeopardy, Robinson let loose on Turpin, knocking him
down, then getting him to the ropes and unleashing a
series of punches, causing the referee to stop the
bout. [29]
Following the victory, residents of Harlem danced in
the streets. [30]
Robinson won the "Fighter of the Year" award again
for his performances in 1951.
In 1952, he fought
a rematch with Olson which he won by decision. [8]
He then defeated former champion,
Rocky Graziano ,
in a 3 round fight, before challenging world
light heavyweight
champion
Joey Maxim
at
Yankee Stadium .
Robinson built a lead on all three judges
scorecards, but the 103 degree temperature inside
the ring took its toll. [5]
The referee,
Ruby Goldstein ,
was the first victim of the heat, and had to be
replaced by referee Ray Miller. The fast-moving
Robinson was next, and at the end of round 13,
Robinson collapsed from the heat and failed to
answer the bell for the next round, [5]
and suffered the only knock-out of his career. [8]
After that bout,
Robinson retired with a record of 131-3-1-1 and
dedicated his time to show business; singing and tap
dancing. After about three years, the decline of his
businesses, lack of success in his performance
career, Robinson decided to make his return to
boxing.
Comeback
In 1955, Robinson
returned to the ring. Although he had been inactive
for two and a half years, his work as a dancer kept
him in peak physical condition: in his
autobiography, Robinson states that in the weeks
leading up to his debut for a dancing engagement in
France, he ran five miles (8 km) every morning, and
then danced for five hours each night. Robinson even
stated that the training he did in his attempts to
establish a career as a dancer were harder than any
he undertook during his boxing career. [31]
Robinson began his comeback 1955, winning a knockout
in his first return bout before losing a decision to
Ralph 'Tiger' Jones .
He bounced back, however, and defeated
Rocky Castellani
by a split decision, then challenged Bobo Olson for
the world middleweight title. He won the
middleweight championship for the third time via a
second round knockout—his third victory over Olson.
He followed this with another knockout over Olson a
year later in his last successful title defense,
blasting Olson with quick left hooks, defeating him
for the fourth and final time, stopping him for the
third time.
In 1957, Robinson
lost his title to
Gene Fullmer . [8]
Fullmer used his aggressive, forward moving style to
control Robinson, and knocked him down in the fight. [32]
Robinson, however, noticed that Fullmer was
vulnerable to the left hook. Fullmer headed into
their May rematch as a 3–1
favorite . [33]
In the first two rounds Robinson followed Fullmer
around the ring, however in the third round he
changed tactics and made Fullmer come to him. [33]
At the start of the fourth round Robinson came out
on the attack and stunned Fullmer, and when Fullmer
returned with his own punches, Robinson traded with
him, as opposed to clinching as he had done in their
earlier fight. The fight was fairly even after four
rounds. [33]
But in the fifth, Robinson was able to win the title
back for a fourth time by knocking out Fullmer with
a lightning fast, powerful left hook. [33]
Boxing critics have referred to the left-hook which
knocked out Fullmer as "the perfect punch". [34]
It marked the first time in 44 career fights that
Fullmer had been knocked out, and when someone asked
Robinson after the fight how far the left hook had
travelled, Robinson replied: "I can't say. But he
got the message." [33]
Later that year,
he lost his title to former welterweight champion
Carmen Basilio
in a rugged 15 round fight in front of 38,000 at
Yankee Stadium , [35]
but regained it for a record fifth time when he beat
Basilio in the rematch. Robinson struggled to make
weight, and had to go without food for nearly 20
hours leading up to the bout. He badly damaged
Basilio's eye early in the fight, and by the seventh
round it was swollen shut. [36]
The two judges gave the fight to Robinson by wide
margins: 72–64 and 71–64. The referee scored the
fight for Basilio 69–64, and was booed loudly by the
crowd of 19,000 when his decision was announced. [36]
The first fight won the "Fight of the Year" award
from
The Ring
magazine for 1957 and the
second fight won the "Fight of the Year" award for
1958. [8]
Decline
Robinson knocked
out
Bob Young
in the second round in
Boston
in his only fight in 1959. [8]
A year later, he defended his title against
Paul Pender .
Robinson entered the fight as a 5–1 favorite, but
lost a split decision in front of 10,608 at
Boston Garden . [37]
The day before the fight Pender commented that he
planned to start slowly, before coming on late. He
did just that and outlasted the aging Robinson, who,
despite opening a cut over Pender's eye in the
eighth round, was largely ineffective in the later
rounds. [37]
An attempt to regain the crown for an unheard of
sixth time proved beyond Robinson. Despite
Robinson's efforts, Pender won by decision in that
rematch. On
December 3
of that year, Robinson and Fullmer fought a 15-round
draw for the
WBA
middleweight title, which Fullmer retained. [8]
In 1961, Robinson and Fullmer fought for a fourth
time, with Fullmer retaining the
NBA
middleweight title by a unanimous decision. [8]
The fight would be Robinson's last title bout.
Robinson spent the
rest of the 1960s fighting 10-round contests. In
October 1961, Robinson defeated future world
champion
Denny Moyer
via unanimous decision. A 12–5 favorite, the 41 year
old Robinson defeated the 22 year old Moyer by
staying on the outside, rather than engaging him. [38]
In their rematch four months later, Moyer defeated
Robinson on points, as he pressed the action and
made Robinson back up throughout the fight. Moyer
won 7–3 on all three judges scorecards. [39]
Robinson lost twice more in 1962, before winning six
consecutive fights against mostly lesser opposition. [8]
In February 1963, Robinson lost via unanimous
decision to former world champion and fellow Hall of
Famer
Joey Giardello .
Giardello knocked Robinson down in the fourth round,
and the 43 year old took until the count of nine to
rise to his feet. [40]
Robinson was also nearly knocked down in the sixth
round, but was saved by the bell. He rallied in the
seventh and eight rounds, before struggling in the
final two. [40]
Robinson also embarked on another tour of Europe.
Robinson fought
for the final time in 1965. He lost via unanimous
decision to
Joey Archer . [41]
Famed sports author Pete Hamill mentioned that one
of the saddest experiences of his life was watching
Robinson lose to Archer. He was even knocked down
and Hamill pointed out that Archer had no knockout
punch at all; Archer admitted afterward that it was
only the second time he had knocked an opponent down
in his career. [8]
The crowd of 9,023 at the
Civic Arena
in
Pittsburgh
gave Robinson several standing ovations, even while
he was being thoroughly outperformed by Archer. [41]
On
November 11 ,
1965 ,
Robinson announced his retirement from boxing,
saying: "I hate to go too long campaigning for
another chance." [42]
Robinson retired from boxing with a record of
175-19-6 with 110 knockouts in 200 professional
bouts, [8]
ranking him among the all-time leaders in knockouts.
After retiring as a boxer
In his
autobiography Robinson states that by 1965 he was
broke, having spent all of the $4 million in
earnings he made inside and out of the ring in his
career. [43]
A month after his last fight, Robinson was honored
with a Sugar Ray Robinson Night on
December 10 ,
1965
in New York's
Madison Square Garden .
During the ceremony, he was honored with a massive
trophy. However, there was not a piece of furniture
in his small
Manhattan
apartment with legs strong enough to support it.
Robinson was elected to the
International Boxing Hall of
Fame
in 1967, two
years after he retired. Very few remember that he
participated, impersonating a retired boxer, in two
episodes ([The Contenders, part 1 and 2] [1] )
of the third season of
Mission Impossible ,
in 1968. In 1969 he founded the Sugar Ray Robinson
Youth Foundation for inner-city
Los Angeles
area. The foundation does not sponsor a boxing
program. [44]
He was diagnosed with
diabetes mellitus
that was treated with
insulin . [45]
In Robinson's last years, he was diagnosed with
Alzheimer's disease . [45]
He died in Los Angeles at the age of 67 and was
interred in the
Inglewood Park Cemetery ,
Inglewood, California .
Personal life
Robinson met his
second wife Edna Mae Holly, a noted dancer who
performed at the
Cotton Club
and toured Europe with
Duke Ellington
and
Cab Calloway ,
in 1940. [46]
According to Robinson, he met her at a local pool he
frequented after his boxing workouts. In an attempt
to get her attention he pushed her into the pool one
day, and claimed it was an accident. [47]
After this attempt was met with disdain, he appeared
at the nightclub she danced at and introduced
himself. Soon the couple was dating and they married
in 1943. They had one son, Ray Robinson Jr. and
divorced in 1960. [46]
In April 1959, Robinson's oldest sister Marie died
of cancer at the age of 41. [48]
In 1965, Robinson
married Millie Wiggins Bruce, who was several years
his senior, and the couple settled in Los Angeles. [19]
When Robinson was sick with his various ailments,
his son accused Robinson's wife of keeping him under
the influence of medication to manipulate him.
According to Ray Robinson Jr., when Sugar Ray's
mother died, Sugar Ray could not attend his mother's
funeral because Millie was drugging and controlling
him. [49]
However, Robinson had been hospitalized the day
before his mother's death due to agitation which
caused his blood pressure to rise. Robinson Jr. and
Edna Mae also claimed that they were kept away from
Robinson by Millie during the last years of his
life. [49]
Boxing style
"Rhythm is
everything in boxing. Every move you make starts
with your heart, and that's in rhythm or you're
in trouble."
—Ray
Robinson [50]
Robinson was a
fluid boxer who possessed a quick jab and knockout
power. He possessed tremendous versatility—according
to boxing analyst
Bert Sugar ,
"Robinson could deliver a knockout blow going
backward." [51]
Robinson was efficient with both hands, and he
displayed a variety of effective punches—according
to a
TIME
magazine article in 1951, "Robinson's repertoire,
thrown with equal speed and power by either hand,
includes every standard punch from a bolo to a
hook—and a few he makes up on the spur of the
moment." [6]
Robinson commented that once a fighter has trained
to a certain level, their techniques and responses
become almost reflexive. "You don't think. It's all
instinct. If you stop to think, you're gone." [52]
Legacy
"Someone once
said there was a comparison between Sugar Ray
Leonard and Sugar Ray Robinson. Believe me,
there's no comparison. Sugar Ray Robinson was
the greatest."
Sugar Ray Leonard [51]
"Without a
doubt the greatest pound for pound fighter that
ever lived."
Jake Lamotta [53]
"The king,
the master, my idol."
Muhammad Ali on Robinson [53]
Robinson is widely
considered the greatest boxer in history, and has
been ranked as the greatest boxer of all time by
sportswriters, fellow boxers, and trainers. [1] [53]
The phrase " pound
for pound ", was
created by sportswriters for him during his career
as a way to compare boxers irrespective of weight, [5] [22]
and Hall of Fame fighters such as
Muhammad Ali ,
Joe Louis
and
Sugar Ray Leonard
have ranked Robinson as the greatest pound for pound
boxer in history. [51] [54] [55]
In 1997,
The Ring
ranked him as the best
pound for pound fighter in history, [5]
and in 1999, he was named "welterweight of the
century" and "middleweight of the century" by the
Associated Press . [56]
In 2007, ESPN.com featured the piece "50 Greatest
Boxers of All Time", in which it named Robinson the
top boxer in history. [57]
In 2003,
The Ring
magazine ranked him number
11 in the list of
all-time greatest punchers
in history. [58]
Robinson was one
of the first African Americans to establish himself
as a star outside of sports. He was an intricate
part of the New York social scene in the 1940s and
1950s. [5]
His glamorous restaurant, Sugar Ray's, hosted stars
such as
Frank Sinatra ,
Jackie Gleason ,
Nat "King" Cole ,
Joe Louis ,
and
Lena Horne
among others. [59]
Robinson was known as a flamboyant personality
outside the ring. He combined striking good looks, [60]
with charisma, and a flair for the dramatic: He
drove a flamingo-pink
Cadillac ,
and was an accomplished singer and dancer, who once
pursued a career in the entertainment industry. [61]
According to ESPN.com's Ron Flatter: "He was the
pioneer of boxing's bigger-than-life entourages,
including a secretary, barber, masseur, voice coach,
a coterie of trainers, beautiful women, a dwarf
mascot and lifelong manager George Gainford." [5] [62]
When Robinson later returned to Paris in 1962—where
he was still a national hero—to get him to cross the
seas the French had to promise to bring over his
masseur, his hairdresser, a guy who whistled while
he trained, and his trademark Cadillac. [63]
This larger than life persona made him the idol of
millions of African American youths in the 1950s.
Robinson inspired several other fighters who took
the nickname "Sugar" in homage to him such as
Sugar Ray Leonard
and
Sugar Shane Mosley .
He was also featured on a 2006
United States
postage stamp ,
which reportedly had a circulation of over 100
million. [64] .
Preceded by
Marty Servo
Vacated
World
Welterweight Champion
20 Dec 1946– 14 Feb 1951
Vacated
Succeeded by
Johnny Bratton
Recognized by
NBA
Preceded by
Jake LaMotta
World
Middleweight Champion
14 Feb 1951– 10 Jul 1951
Succeeded by
Randy Turpin
Preceded by
Randy Turpin
World
Middleweight Champion
12 Sep 1951– Dec 1952
Retired
Succeeded by
Carl (Bobo) Olson
Preceded by
Carl (Bobo) Olson
World
Middleweight Champion
9 Dec 1955– 2 Jan 1957
Succeeded by
Gene Fullmer
Preceded by
Gene Fullmer
World
Middleweight Champion
1 May 1957– 23 Sep 1957
Succeeded by
Carmen Basilio
Preceded by
Carmen Basilio
World
Middleweight Champion
25 Mar 1958– 22 Jan 1960
Only recognized by New York and
Massachusetts at time of title loss
Succeeded by
Paul Pender
Persondata
NAME
Sugar Ray
Robinson
ALTERNATIVE
NAMES
Walter
Smith Jr.
SHORT
DESCRIPTION
Hall of
Fame American pugilist
DATE OF BIRTH
May 3 ,
1921
PLACE OF
BIRTH
Ailey,
Georgia
DATE OF DEATH
April 12 ,
1989
PLACE OF
DEATH
Los Angeles,
California
The Incomparable Sugar Ray
Robinson
Named Greatest Fighter Of All Time
By MONTE D. COX
Cox's
Corner Profiles
This article appeared at East Side
Boxing Sept 24, 2006
Sugar Ray Robinson has been named the
greatest fighter of all time, pound for pound, by the International Boxing
Research Organization, a reputable association of boxing historians,
analysts and writers. Robinson certainly has all of the qualifications to be
titled as the greatest of them all. The Sugar man possessed every asset of a
great boxing master; grace, speed, balance, fantastic skill, pulverizing
punching power, an indestructible chin, and an indomitable will. Further his
competition is among the best of any fighter in any weight class. Robinson
also had longevity to go along with a great ring record.
There are a number of ways to rate
fighters in an all time sense, but it boils down to two important
considerations. One is to judge the ability of a fighter. That is to ask who
brings the most attributes to the ring. Rating fighters on talent is one
method. The other is to rate fighters strictly on their ring record by
weighing their accomplishments and quality of opposition. In either case
Robinson is difficult to compare.
ABILITY
What other fighter could beat you more
ways than could Sugar Ray Robinson? Ray could out box boxers and out punch
punchers. He could do it inside or outside, going forward or backward. That
cannot be said of any other all time great that received a first place vote
in the IBRO poll. Not Harry Greb, not Bob Fitzsimmons, not Jack Dempsey, not
Henry Armstrong, not Sam Langford. Nor could it be said of 4-5th place
finishers Muhammad Ali and Joe Louis. Runner up Greb and 3rd place finisher
Armstrong were primarily pressure fighters. Dempsey, Louis, Langford and top
10 finisher Roberto Duran could box and punch, but they could not “outbox”
boxers with speed and agility. Ali could outbox punchers but he could not
out punch punchers. Ali was also one dimensional in that he was strictly a
head hunter and not a complete fighter. In terms of all around ability,
hitting power and versatility, Robinson deserves the top spot.
Although not as fundamentally sound as Joe
Louis, Robinson was more multifaceted. Louis was an economically sound boxer
who wasted no movement, had a tight structure and threw short compact
punches with precision and power. According to the boxing book that is how
it is suppose to be done. Robinson transcended that by adding fluidity of
movement and grace to his ring style. Sugar Ray was not the first fighter to
fight in the elegant style that he possessed. What made Robinson so special
was that he combined speed, balance and flash with devastating explosive
power.
Men like Louis, Langford, and Dempsey
could knock you out with one punch from either hand. So could Robinson. Ray
could do it with his powerful left hook as he did against Gene Fullmer or
with his perfect straight right as he did against Rocky Graziano. Joe Louis
could throw triple left hooks with speed, power and accuracy that could
destroy a man. Robinson could throw triple left hooks and triple right hooks
that could do the same. Who else could do that and maintain frightening
power?
Punch for punch Ray Robinson was one of
boxing histories all time best punchers. Robinson once knocked out Gene
Fullmer with a picturesque left hook while moving backwards displaying the
one shot shock power of an all time puncher. The Ring magazine rated him
11th among all the great punchers of history in their 2003 article the 100
greatest punchers of all time.
In terms of combination punching the two
best fighters in history for speed, power, and accuracy are Joe Louis and
Ray Robinson. Robinson worked some of the prettiest combinations ever seen
and can be considered the best ever in this category. Robinson was also a
great body puncher. In a comparison to some of the great Mexican body
punchers of the recent era like Julio Cesar Chavez and Marco Antonio
Barrera; who go to the body primarily around the opponents guard, Robinson
punched up the middle as well as to the outside. Robinson was an aggressive,
dexterous puncher with many weapons to choose from.
Killer instinct is the instrument the
drives the wheel of destruction in many of the great fighters. Nat Fleischer
once wrote that Robinson, for all his skill, could rip and tear like a Jack
Dempsey. Some commentators have stated that Robinson was not a great
defensive fighter. This is no doubt true. When one is aggressive and really
goes after their opponent they are going to leave themselves open for
counters. This is not always a bad thing. When Robinson was on the attack
his opponents had to worry about his full battery of offensive weapons.
Robinson’s defense was his irrepressible offense, although he used his
footwork, height and reach to get away from trouble when necessary.
Robinson had a great chin and his will to
win is among the best. Sugar Ray was never physically knocked out in more
than 200 pro fights. One can see Robinson’s gritty determination in his
films. He punishes his rivals as though he is upset that they would even
think that they could compete with him. He was as determined and confident
as any boxing champion in history.
Ray Robinson was the archetype of a
complete fighter. If one combines his polished, grand boxing style with his
powerful punching and cast iron chin with a will to win unsurpassed in the
annals of boxing one has a perfect fighter.
RECORD
Five men can lay claim to having the best
record in boxing history in terms of their accomplishments and quality of
opposition. Those men are Harry Greb, Henry Armstrong, Benny Leonard,
Muhammad Ali and Ray Robinson.
Harry Greb fought 14 world champions and 4
championship title claimants. He had wins against all of them. That means he
faced and defeated 18 of 18 champions that he met in the ring at least once.
Greb’s record reads like a who’s who of great fighters from the late teens
and 20’s. His quality of opposition is unmatched defeating five world
middleweight champions, seven world light-heavyweight champions and one
future heavyweight champion. The names include, Mike McTigue, Jack Dillon,
Battling Levinsky, Tiger Flowers, Tommy Loughran, Tommy Gibbons Jimmy
Slattery, Maxie Rosenbloom, Mickey Walker and Gene Tunney. Although not much
more than a middleweight he also won dozens of fights against heavyweights
including matches against Bill Brennan and Billy Miske both of whom fought
for the heavyweight title. Greb came in second in the IBRO poll based
primarily on his exceptional ring record.
Henry Armstrong’s feats are amazing.
During his peak run Hank was 59-1-1 with 51 knockouts against topflight
competition, which included winning the featherweight, lightweight and
welterweight world titles. Armstrong scored 27 straight knockouts during
1937-1938. He came within a hair’s breadth of winning titles in 4 major
weight classes when he drew for the middleweight title in 1940 against
reigning titleholder Ceferino Garcia, a fighter he had already beaten. Hank
also made 20 successful defenses of the welterweight title, a record that
still stands to this day. Armstrong’s accomplishments put him in the
conversation when discussing the greatest fighter of all time. The one knock
against Armstrong is that he lacked longevity and was at his peak for only a
short time. Armstrong was a like a fire that burned so brightly that it
quickly burned itself out.
Benny Leonard faced the greatest line up
of lightweight challengers in ring history. Benny a master boxer of the
first order is one fighter who could compete with Robinson in the area of
boxing skill and all around ability. His competition was also fierce. He
defeated featherweight champions Johnny Kilbane and Johnny Dundee,
lightweight champions Freddie Welsh, Willie Ritchie and Rocky Kansas. He
defeated some great challengers such as Lew Tendler still considered one of
the best fighters to never win a title as well as tough competitors such as
Ritchie Mitchell, Patsy Cline, Joe Welling and left hook artist Charley
White. Leonard retired undefeated as lightweight champion after 7 years
although he did benefit somewhat from the no decision rules of the time.
Muhammad Ali beat the best competition in
heavyweight history. As a three time champion he defeated Sonny Liston,
Floyd Patterson, Joe Frazier, George Foreman, Ken Norton, and Leon Spinks.
He also defeated hard hitting contenders such as Ron Lyle and Earnie
Shavers. Ali dominated nearly two decades of heavyweight boxing and must be
considered among the best in the category of quality of opposition.
Ray Robinson’s achievements are no less
impressive. Robinson amassed a peak professional record of 128-1-2 while
winning the welterweight and middleweight titles. The only fighters to
surpass Robinson’s peak won-loss record are Willie Pep’s 134-1-1 and perhaps
Rocky Marciano’s 49-0, although neither faced close to Robinson’s quality of
opposition.
Robinson went 40-0 as a pro before losing
a decision to Jake Lamotta, a middleweight who outweighed him by nearly 16
pounds. He was unbeatable for the next eight years going on a 91 bout
winning streak. His career record against Lamotta, the only man to ever beat
a prime Robinson is 5-1. Lamotta outweighed him by an average of 12 pounds
in all of their fights.
Overall Robinson defeated 10 Hall of
Famer’s in his career; Jake Lamotta, Sammy Angott, Fritzie Zivic, Henry
Armstrong, Kid Gavilan, Rocky Graziano, Randy Turpin, Gene Fullmer and
Carmen Basilio. He also defeated some skilled challengers such as Tommy Bell
who could have been champion in the modern era. Ray was undefeated as
welterweight champion and won the middleweight title for a record 5 times.
Robinson should have won the middleweight
tile for a 6th time but received a dubious draw against Gene Fullmer at age
39. The film clearly demonstrates that Robinson should have received the
decision. Ray won the fight in the ring only to be robbed of the decision.
Robinson’s longevity puts him among the 5 best geriatric champions of all
time with Bob Fitzsimmons, Archie Moore, George Foreman and Bernard Hopkins.
Robinson was absolutely outstanding in
rematches. He won rematches against 11 men before finally losing twice to
the same fighter. No one ever beat him twice until he was 40 years old and
had over 150 fights and even then they were two split-decisions against Paul
Pender.
One should also consider that Robinson’s
activity level made him sharper and more experienced than modern fighters.
For example in 1946 the year he won the welterweight title Sugar Ray fought
16 times. In 1947 he fought 10 times. In 1949 he fought 13 times. In 1950 he
fought 19 times. The other “Sugar Ray” Leonard only fought 40 pro fights in
his entire career. Robinson’s total record is 175-19-6 2 NC with 109 kayo’s.
16 of his 19 losses came after his first comeback at age 34, 12 after the
age of 40.
To sum it up, Robinson was the consummate
professional fighter who possessed every physical asset; speed, agility,
mobility, and tremendous punching power. He rates among a select few of the
all time greats who could defeat fighters using their own best assets
against them. Robinson, a true sharpshooter, easily rates among the best
pound for pound punchers in history. Robinson is possibly the greatest
combination puncher of all time. His quality of opposition is among the top
five. Ray’s peak won-loss record is among the top three. Ray’s overall ring
record and accomplishments also rate among the top three. Robinson is among
the top five of all time in the category of longevity. Ray had all the
intangibles, great experience, killer instinct, a tremendous chin and heart.
When one adds it all up it is easy to see why the respected IBRO rated Sugar
Ray Robinson as the greatest fighter of all time.
Thanks to Frank Lotierzo for his
many contributions made to this article
Visit Cox's Corner
The Ringside Boxing Show's
2008 "Best Historic Website"