Woody Allen - Live on Granada TV
Archive
Movie
Live Music Show
Documentaries
Collections
The Films Of...
Art
All Shows
Magazine
About
Woody Allen - Live on Granada TV
Woody back when he did standup!
Curated by
Jason Forrest
Total Runtime: 0:27:27
ComedySubs augura felice 75esimo compleanno a Woody Allen proponendovi
questa traduzione di una sua (più unica che rara) apparizione televisiva
come stand-up comedian.
Talk Show - Woody Allen on Cavett
Dick and Woody talk about Whales, Particle Physics, and Jazz.
Curated by
Joe DeMartino
Total Runtime: 0:50:28
Talk Show
Woody Allen
(born
Allen Stewart Konigsberg ; December 1, 1935) is an American screenwriter, director, actor, comedian, jazz musician, author, and playwright.
Allen's films, ranging from tragedies to
screwball comedies ,
have made him a notable American director. He is also distinguished by
his rapid rate of production and his very large body of work. [ 1 ]
Allen writes and directs his movies and has also acted in the majority
of them. For inspiration, Allen draws heavily on literature, sexuality,
philosophy, psychology,
Jewish identity , and the history of cinema, among a wealth of other fields of interest.
Allen developed a passion for music early on and is a
jazz clarinetist . What began as a teenage
avocation
has led to regular public performances at various small venues in his hometown of
Manhattan , with occasional appearances at various
jazz festivals . Allen joined the
Preservation Hall Jazz Band
and the New Orleans Funeral Ragtime Orchestra in performances that provided the film score for his 1973 comedy
Sleeper , and performed in a rare European tour in 1996, which became the subject of the documentary
Wild Man Blues .
Movie - Broadway Danny Rose (Woody Allen, 1984)
In his attempts to reconcile a lounge singer with his mistress, a hapless talent agent is mistaken as her lover by a jealous gangster.
Total Runtime: 1:21:10
Movie comedy
Danny Rose is a manager of artists, and although he's not very
successful, he nevertheless goes out of his way to help his acts. So
when Lou Canova, a singer who has a chance of making a come-back, asks
Danny to help him with a problem, Danny helps him. This problem is Lou's
mistress Tina. Lou wants Tina to be at his concerts, otherwise he can't
perform, but he's married, so Danny has to take her along as if she was
his girlfriend. Danny however gets more than he has bargained for when
two mobsters come looking for the guy who has hurt their brother by
stealing the heart of Tina, the girl he loves.
Woody Allen - Live on Granada TV
◀
PREV NEXT
▶
THIS VIDEO:
MORE INFO ABOUT THIS SHOW »
July
22
What's On Today?
Woody Allen - Live on Granada TV 0:27:27
Talk Show - Woody Allen on Cavett 0:50:28
Movie - Broadway Danny Rose (Woody Allen, 1984) 1:21:10
Our Curators Recommend:
Movie - Sleeper (Woody Allen, 1973) "you dont believe in science, you dont﻿ believe in political systems, you dont believe in religion.... what do you believe in?"
"sex and death.. 2 things that come once in a lifetime."
Talkshow - Wes Anderson interviews Robert Evans Wes Anderson interviews the GOD-like Robert Evans! Torrid tales of Hollywood highs and lows.
Design Week COOL HUNTING presents over 200 video clips on culture and design
Movie - Colossus - The Forbin Project (1970) A massive American defense computer, named Colossus, becoming sentient and tries to assume control of the world.
Network Awesome Originals:
Rubber Monsters & Giant Heroes Weekend More action and forced perspective camera work than you can shake a giant lizard at!
Women In Prison Weekend DEPRAVED! INCORRIGIBLE! SEE WHAT HAPPENS BEHIND BARS!
DRUG WEEK A week long investigation into the illicit substances that drive our culture
Italian Weekend Disco, Fashion, Design, Horror Movies - Italians do it all!
Previously This Week:
Tue, Oct 27
Behind the scenes of the Evil Dead movies
Talk Show - Sam Raimi
Within the Woods by Sam Raimi (1978)
Talk Show - Bruce Campbell Lecture
Bollywood Evil Dead (2008)
Movie - The Evil Dead (Sam Raimi, 1981)
Mon, Oct 26
Live Music Show - Mac DeMarco @ La Route du Rock 2014
Collection - Mariah Carey
Doc - Eric Rohmer: Cinema de Notre Temps
Collection - Deadheads
Talk Show - William S. Burroughs and Kathy Acker
Movie - Multiple Maniacs (John Waters, 1970)
Sun, Oct 25
Live Music Show - Music for 18 Musicians live in Japan (2008)
Art - Suur Toll
Doc - G.I.S.M. Subj and Egos, Chopped
Doc - White Angel, Black Angel (1969)
Short - Elefante (Spain)
Movie - Theodore Rex (1995)
Sat, Oct 24
Art - Malice in Wonderland (Vince Collins)
Collection: Alice in Wonderland
Talk Show - Alice Cooper (1973)
Art - Curious Alice (1971)
Art - Manga Sekai Mukashi Banashi: Alice in Wonderland (1981)
Movie - Alice (Svankmajer, 1988)
Fri, Oct 23
Collection - Dimanche Mon Amour Goes to Brasil
The Captive by René Laloux (1988)
Collection - Etienne Daho
Doc - Michel Foucault: Beyond Good and Evil (1993)
Collection - Dalida
Movie - The Stranger (Orson Welles, 1946)
Thu, Oct 22
Live Music Show - Blondie Live @ Beat Club, 1978
Talk Show - Debbie Harry and H.R Giger 1981
Doc - CBGB's the roots of punk
TV CBGB (1981)
Collection - New York in the 80s
Movie - Kids (1995)
Our video curators filter videos into feature-length shows.
Each day we broadcast 6 new shows curated by theme.
All shows are in the archive. Watch ‘em any time.
Network Awesome is a new kind of online TV experience. We mine YouTube to present the best videos that are
interesting, over-looked or just plain cool.
FOLLOW US ON FACEBOOK
Like a TV guide you actually like!
FOLLOW US ON TUMBLR
Tons of .gifs and new ones every day.
FOLLOW US ON TWITTER
Share your favorite shows with the world!
Magazine
About
Advertise
Contact
Design: Matt Gentile, Martin Müller, and Jason Forrest
Code: Greg Sadetsky, Crucial Felix, Mike Dillion, Dan Levine, and
Benjamin Gleitzman
Illustration:
James Clapham