$@n&?: Julho 2011
$@n&?
Thomas Ruggles Pynchon, Jr.
(born May 8, 1937) is an
American novelist . For his most praised novel,
Gravity's Rainbow , Pynchon received the
National Book Award , and is regularly cited as a contender for the Nobel Prize for Literature. [1]
Pynchon is a
MacArthur Fellow
noted for his dense and complex novels, and both his
fiction
and non-fiction writings encompass a vast array of subject matter,
styles
and
themes , including (but not limited to) the fields of
history ,
science , and
mathematics .
Hailing from
Long Island , Pynchon spent two years in the
United States Navy
and earned an
English
degree from
Cornell University . After publishing several
short stories
in the late 1950s and early 1960s, he began composing the
novels
for which he is best known:
V.
(1963),
The Crying of Lot 49
(1966),
Gravity's Rainbow
(1973), and
Mason & Dixon
(1997). Pynchon is also known for being very private; very few photographs of him have ever been published, and rumors about his location and identity have been circulated since the 1960s.
Thomas Pynchon was born in 1937 in
Glen Cove ,
Long Island , New York, one of three children of Thomas Ruggles Pynchon, Sr. (1907–1995) and Katherine Frances Bennett (1909–1996). His earliest American ancestor,
William Pynchon , emigrated to the
Massachusetts Bay Colony
with the
Winthrop Fleet
in 1630, and thereafter a long line of Pynchon descendants found wealth and repute on American soil. Pynchon's family background and aspects of his ancestry have provided source material for his fictions, particularly in the Slothrop family histories related in the short story " The Secret Integration " (1964) and
Gravity's Rainbow
(1973).
Childhood and education Pynchon attended
Oyster Bay High School
in
Oyster Bay , where he was awarded 'student of the year' and contributed short fictional pieces to his school newspaper. These juvenilia incorporated some of the literary motifs and recurring subject matter he would use throughout his career: oddball names, sophomoric humor, illicit drug use, and paranoia ( Pynchon 1952–3 ).
After graduating from high school in 1953 at the age of 16, Pynchon studied
engineering physics
at
Cornell University , but left at the end of his second year to serve in the
U.S. Navy . In 1957, he returned to Cornell to pursue a degree in English. His first published story, "The Small Rain", appeared in the
Cornell Writer
in May 1959, and narrates an actual experience of a friend who had served in the
Army ; subsequently, however, episodes and characters throughout Pynchon's fiction draw freely upon his own experiences in the Navy ( Pynchon 1984: 10–11 ).
While at Cornell, Pynchon started his friendships with
Richard Fariña
and
David Shetzline ; Pynchon would go on to dedicate
Gravity's Rainbow
to Fariña, as well as serve as his best man and as his pallbearer. Together the two briefly led what Pynchon has called a 'micro-cult' around
Oakley Hall 's 1958 novel
Warlock . Pynchon later reminisced about his college days in the introduction he wrote in 1983 for Fariña's novel
Been Down So Long It Looks Like Up to Me ,
first published in 1966. He reportedly attended lectures given by
Vladimir Nabokov , who then taught literature at Cornell. Although Nabokov later said that he had no memory of Pynchon, Nabokov's wife, Véra, who graded her husband's class papers, commented that she remembered his distinctive handwriting as a mixture of printed and
cursive
letters ( Sweeney 2008 ). Other of Pynchon's teachers at Cornell, such as the novelist James McConkey, recall him as being a gifted and exceptional student. [ citation needed ]
In 1958, Pynchon and Cornell classmate
Kirkpatrick Sale
wrote part or all of a science-fiction musical,
Minstrel Island , which portrayed a dystopian future in which
IBM
rules the world ( Gibbs 1994 ). Pynchon received his BA in June 1959.
Early career V. Main article:
V. After leaving Cornell, Pynchon began to work on his first novel:
V . From February 1960 to September 1962, he was employed as a technical writer at
Boeing
in
Seattle , where he compiled safety articles for the
Bomarc Service News
(see
Wisnicki 2000–1 ), a support newsletter for the
BOMARC surface-to-air missile
deployed by the
U.S. Air Force . Pynchon's experiences at Boeing inspired his depictions of the ' Yoyodyne ' corporation in
V.
and
The Crying of Lot 49 ,
and both his background in physics and the technical journalism he undertook at Boeing provided much raw material for
Gravity's Rainbow . When published in 1963,
V.
won a
William Faulkner Foundation
Award for the best first novel of the year.
After resigning from Boeing, Pynchon spent some time in New York and
Mexico
before moving to
California , where he was reportedly based for much of the 1960s and early 1970s, most notably in an apartment in
Manhattan Beach
(see
Frost 2003 ), as he was composing the highly-regarded
Gravity's Rainbow . Pynchon during this time flirted with the lifestyle and some of the habits of the
Beat
and
hippie
countercultures
(see, for example,
Gordon 1994 ).
A negative aspect, in addition to several good ones, that Pynchon retrospectively found in the
hippie cultural and literary movement , both in the form of the Beats of the 1950s and the resurgence form of the 1960s, was that it "placed too much emphasis on youth, including the eternal variety." ( Introduction ,
Slow Learner , 1984, pp. 8–9) Some reviewer [ who? ]
argued that Pynchon's 1990 novel
Vineland , in which former 1960s rebels, like character Frenesi Gates, betray their past and turn into hypocritical informants helping the FBI spy on suspected radicals, ( Patell 2001
p. 129;
Bawer 1990 ; Vineland 1990 p. 74 quote: "snitch community") can be taken as Pynchon's own retrospective assessments of the motives, values, and achievements of the student and youth milieux of the era, [ citation needed ]
including the view that the behavior of the characters in the novel was the prevailing one within various branches of the youth movement of the 1960s, [ citation needed ]
and that such behaviors had a prominent role in a failure of the social revolution in that period. [ citation needed ]
In 1964, his application to study mathematics as a graduate student at the
University of California, Berkeley
was turned down ( Royster 2005 ). In 1966, Pynchon wrote a first-hand report on the aftermath and legacy of the
Watts riots
in Los Angeles. Entitled "A Journey Into the Mind of Watts," the article was published in the
New York Times Magazine
( Pynchon 1966 ).
From the mid-1960s Pynchon has also regularly provided
blurbs
and introductions for a wide range of novels and non-fiction works. One of the first of these pieces was a brief review of Hall's
Warlock
which appeared, along with comments by seven other writers on "neglected books", as part of a feature entitled "A Gift of Books" in the December 1965 issue of
Holiday.
The Crying of Lot 49 Main article:
The Crying of Lot 49
Pynchon created the "muted post horn" as a symbol for the secret "Trystero" society in
The Crying of Lot 49 . In an April 1964 letter to his agent, Candida Donadio, Pynchon wrote that he was facing a creative crisis, with four novels in progress, announcing: "If they come out on paper anything like they are inside my head then it will be the literary event of the millennium." ( Gussow 1998 )
In December 1965, Pynchon politely turned down an invitation from
Stanley Edgar Hyman
to teach literature at
Bennington College , writing that he had resolved, two or three years earlier, to write three novels at once. Pynchon described the decision as "a moment of temporary insanity", but noted that he was "too stubborn to let any of them go, let alone all of them." (see
McLemee 2006 )
Pynchon's second novel,
The Crying of Lot 49,
was published a few months later in 1966. Whether it was one of the three or four novels Pynchon had in progress is not known, but in a 1965 letter to Donadio, Pynchon had written that he was in the middle of writing a "potboiler". When the book grew to 155 pages, he called it, "a short story, but with gland trouble", and hoped that Donadio could "unload it on some poor sucker." ( Gussow 1998 )
The Crying of Lot 49
won the Richard and Hilda Rosenthal Foundation Award shortly after publication. Although more concise and linear in its structure than Pynchon's other novels, its labyrinthine plot features an ancient, underground mail service known as 'The Tristero' or 'Trystero', a parody of a
Jacobean revenge drama
called
The Courier's Tragedy , and a corporate conspiracy involving the bones of
World War II
American
GIs
being used as charcoal
cigarette filters . It proposes a series of seemingly incredible interconnections between these events and other similarly bizarre revelations that confront the novel's protagonist, Oedipa Maas. Like
V.,
the novel contains a wealth of references to science and technology and to obscure historical events, with both books dwelling on the detritus of American society and culture.
The Crying of Lot 49
also continues Pynchon's strategy of composing parodic song lyrics and punning names, and referencing aspects of
popular culture
within his prose narratives. In particular, it incorporates a very direct
allusion
to the protagonist of Nabokov's
Lolita
within the lyric of a love lament sung by a member of 'The Paranoids', a teenage band who deliberately sing their songs with British accents (p. 17).
In 1968, Pynchon was one of 447 signatories to the "Writers and Editors War Tax Protest". Full-page advertisements in
The New York Post
and
The New York Review of Books
listed the names of those who had pledged not to pay "the proposed 10% income tax surcharge or any war-designated tax increase", and stated their belief "that American involvement in Vietnam is morally wrong". ( New York Review of Books
1968:9 )
Gravity's Rainbow Main article:
Gravity's Rainbow Pynchon's most celebrated novel is his third,
Gravity's Rainbow , published in 1973. An intricate and allusive fiction that combines and elaborates on many of the themes of his earlier work, including
preterition ,
paranoia ,
racism ,
colonialism ,
conspiracy ,
synchronicity , and
entropy
( Plater 1978 ;
Chambers 1982 ), the novel has spawned a wealth of commentary and critical material, including reader's guides ( Fowler 1980 ;
Weisenburger 1988 ), books and scholarly articles, online concordances and discussions, and art works. Its artistic value is often compared to that of
James Joyce 's
Ulysses
( Ruch 2000 ). Some scholars have hailed it as the greatest American post-WW2 novel ( Almansi 1994: 226 ), and it has similarly been described as "literally an anthology of postmodernist themes and devices" ( McHale 1987: 16 ).
The major portion of
Gravity's Rainbow
takes place in London and Europe in the final months of
World War II
and the weeks immediately following
VE Day , and is narrated for the most part from within the historical moment in which it is set. In this way, Pynchon's text enacts a type of
dramatic irony
whereby neither the characters nor the various
narrative voices
are aware of specific historical circumstances, such as the
Holocaust
and, except as hints, premonitions and mythography, the complicity between Western corporate interests and the Nazi war machine, which figure prominently in readers' apprehensions of the novel's historical context. For example, at war's end the narrator observes: "There are rumors of a War Crimes Tribunal under way in Nürnberg. No one Slothrop has listened to is clear who's trying whom for what ... " (p. 681) Such an approach generates dynamic tension and moments of acute self-consciousness, as both reader and author seem drawn ever deeper into the " plot ", in various senses of that term:
Between the ominous launch and final descent into "terminal orgasm," Pynchon presents us with a Disney-meets-Bosch panorama of European politics, American entropy, industrial history, and libidinal panic which leaves a chaotic whirl of fractal patterns in the reader's mind. — Pettman 2002 ,
264
Quotation
"If they can get you asking the wrong questions, they don't have to worry about answers."
Gravity's Rainbow
The novel invokes anti-authority sentiments, often through violations of narrative conventions and integrity. For example, as the aforementioned protagonist, Tyrone Slothrop, considers the fact that his own family "made its money killing trees", he apostrophizes his apology and plea for advice to the coppice within which he has momentarily taken refuge. In an overt incitement to
eco-activism , Pynchon's narrative agency then has it that "a medium-sized pine nearby nods its top and suggests, 'Next time you come across a logging operation out here, find one of their tractors that isn't being guarded, and take its oil filter with you. That's what you can do.'" (p. 553)
Encyclopedic in scope and often self-conscious in style, the novel displays erudition in its treatment of an array of material drawn from the fields of
psychology , chemistry, mathematics, history, religion, music, literature and film. Pynchon wrote the first draft of
Gravity's Rainbow
in "neat, tiny script on engineer's
quadrille paper ". ( Weisenburger 1988 ) Pynchon worked on the novel throughout the 1960s and early 1970s while he was living in California and Mexico City.
Gravity's Rainbow
was a joint winner of the 1974
National Book Award
for Fiction, along with
Isaac Bashevis Singer 's
A Crown of Feathers and Other Stories . In the same year, the fiction jury unanimously recommended
Gravity's Rainbow
for the
Pulitzer Prize
though the Pulitzer board vetoed the jury's recommendation, describing the novel as "unreadable", "turgid", "overwritten", and in parts "obscene", and no prize was awarded. ( Kihss 1974 ) In 1975, Pynchon declined the
William Dean Howells Medal of the American Academy of Arts and Letters .
Later career A collection of Pynchon's early short stories,
Slow Learner , was published in 1984, with a lengthy
autobiographical
introduction. In October of the same year, an article entitled "Is It O.K. to Be a Luddite?" was published in the
New York Times Book Review . In April 1988, Pynchon contributed an extensive review of
Gabriel García Márquez 's novel
Love in the Time of Cholera
to the
New York Times , under the title "The Heart's Eternal Vow". Another article, entitled "Nearer, My Couch, to Thee", was published in June 1993 in the
New York Times Book Review , as one in a series of articles in which various writers reflected on each of the
Seven Deadly Sins . Pynchon's subject was " Sloth ".
Vineland Main article:
Vineland Pynchon's fourth novel,
Vineland , was published in 1990, but disappointed a majority of fans and critics. It did, however, receive some positive reviews, notably from the novelist
Salman Rushdie . The novel is set in California in the 1980s and 1960s, and describes the relationship between an
FBI
COINTELPRO
agent and a female radical filmmaker. Its strong socio-political undercurrents detail the constant battle between
authoritarianism
and
communalism , and the nexus between
resistance
and complicity, but with a typically Pynchonian sense of humor. ( Rushdie 1990 ;
Berressem 1992: 236-7 )
In 1988, he received a
MacArthur Fellowship
and, since the early 1990s at least, many observers have mentioned Pynchon as a
Nobel Prize
contender (see, for example,
Grimes 1993 ;
Ervin 2000 ). Renowned American literary critic
Harold Bloom
named him as one of the four major American novelists of his time, along with
Don DeLillo ,
Philip Roth , and
Cormac McCarthy . [1]
Mason & Dixon Main article:
Mason & Dixon Pynchon's fifth novel,
Mason & Dixon , was published in 1997, though it had been a work in progress since at least January 1975. (Gussow 1998;
Ulin 1997 )
The meticulously researched novel is a sprawling
postmodernist
saga recounting the lives and careers of the English astronomer,
Charles Mason , and his partner, the surveyor
Jeremiah Dixon , the surveyors of the
Mason-Dixon line , during the birth of the
American Republic . The majority of commentators acknowledged it as a welcome return to form. The noted American critic
Harold Bloom
has hailed the novel as Pynchon's "masterpiece to date". ( Bloom 2003 )
Against the Day Main article:
Against the Day A variety of rumors pertaining to the subject matter of
Against the Day
circulated for a number of years. Most specific of these were comments made by the former German minister of culture,
Michael Naumann , who stated that he assisted Pynchon in his research about "a Russian mathematician [who] studied for
David Hilbert
in
Göttingen ", and that the new novel would trace the life and loves of
Sofia Kovalevskaya .
In July 2006, a new untitled novel by Pynchon was announced along with a synopsis written by Pynchon himself, which appeared on
Amazon.com , it stated that the novel's action takes place between the
1893 Chicago World's Fair
and the time immediately following
World War I . "With a worldwide disaster looming just a few years ahead", Pynchon wrote in his
book description , "it is a time of unrestrained corporate greed, false religiosity, moronic fecklessness, and evil intent in high places. No reference to the present day is intended or should be inferred." He promised cameos by
Nikola Tesla ,
Bela Lugosi
and
Groucho Marx , as well as "stupid songs" and "strange sexual practices". Subsequently, the title of the new book was reported to be
Against the Day
and a Penguin spokesperson confirmed that the synopsis was Pynchon's. ( Patterson 2006ab ;
Italie 2006 )
Against the Day
was released on November 21, 2006 and is 1,085 pages long in the first edition hardcover. The book was given almost no promotion by Penguin and professional book reviewers were given little time in advance to review the book, presumably in accord with Pynchon's wishes. [ original research? ]
An edited version of Pynchon's synopsis was used as the jacket flap copy and Kovalevskaya does appear, although as only one of over a hundred characters.
Composed predominantly of a series of interwoven pastiches of popular fiction genres from the era in which it is set, the novel inspired several reactions from critics and reviewers. One reviewer in
Time
magazine remarked that, "It is brilliant, but it is exhaustingly brilliant."( Complete Review 2006 ) The novel's extensive condemnation of
capitalism , and its loyalty to the 1960s ideals, was received with great regret by mainstream critics in the US. ( Pincio 2009 ,
Complete Review 2006 ) Some [ who? ]
made the point that this was ostensibly the culmination of Pynchon's career and a summation of his personal philosophy, while others [ who? ]
suggested that it was a "loose baggy monster" [2]
which had been pieced together from several long-time Pynchonian works-in-progress and offcuts from other of his novels.
Inherent Vice Main article:
Inherent Vice Information regarding a new Pynchon novel scheduled for publication in August 2009 was leaked in October 2008 ( Kellogg 2008 ) and subsequently confirmed by a spokesperson for
Penguin Press .
A synopsis and brief extract from the novel, along with the novel's title,
Inherent Vice , and dust jacket image, were printed in Penguin Press' Summer 2009 catalogue ( Penguin 2009a: 28–9, 44 ). The book was advertised by the publisher as "part-
noir , part-
psychedelic
romp, all Thomas Pynchon —
private eye
Doc Sportello comes, occasionally, out of a
marijuana
haze to watch the end of an era as
free love
slips away and
paranoia
creeps in with the L.A. fog." ( Penguin 2009a )
A promotional video for the novel was released by Penguin Books on August 4, 2009, with the character voiceover narrated by the author himself. ( Penguin 2009b ) This may be found on
Youtube . [3]
There have been rumors that award-winning writer-director
Paul Thomas Anderson
is working on a film version of the novel. [ citation needed ]
It would be the first Pynchon work adapted to the screen.
Style Poet
L. E. Sissman , wrote from
The New Yorker : "He is almost a mathematician of prose, who calculates the least and the greatest stress each word and line, each pun and ambiguity, can bear, and applies his knowledge accordingly and virtually without lapses, though he takes many scary, bracing linguistic risks. Thus his remarkably supple diction can first treat of a painful and delicate love scene and then roar, without pause, into the sounds and echoes of a drudged and drunken orgy."( Sissman 1973 )
Themes Along with its emphasis on sociopolitical themes such as
racism
and
imperialism , its awareness and appropriation of many elements of traditional
high culture
and
literaryform , Pynchon's work explores philosophical, theological, and sociological ideas exhaustively, though in quirky and approachable ways. His writings demonstrate a strong affinity with the practitioners and artifacts of
low culture , including
comic books
and
cartoons ,
pulp fiction , popular films,
television programs ,
cookery ,
urban myths ,
conspiracy theories , and
folk art . This blurring of the conventional boundary between "High" and "low" culture, sometimes interpreted as a " deconstruction ", is seen as one of the defining characteristics of postmodernism ( Mead 1989 ;
Krafft 2008 ).
In particular, Pynchon has revealed himself in his fiction and non-fiction as an aficionado of
popular music . Song lyrics and mock
musical
numbers appear in each of his novels, and, in his autobiographical introduction to the
Slow Learner
collection of early stories, he reveals a fondness for both
jazz
and
rock and roll . The character McClintic Sphere in
V.
is a fictional composite of jazz musicians such as
Ornette Coleman ,
Charlie Parker
and
Thelonious Monk . In
The Crying of Lot 49 , the lead singer of "The Paranoids" sports "a
Beatle
haircut" and sings with an English accent. In the closing pages of
Gravity's Rainbow , there is an apocryphal report that Tyrone Slothrop, the novel's protagonist, played
kazoo
and
harmonica
as a guest musician on a record released by
The Fool
in the 1960s (having
magically
recovered the latter instrument, his " harp ", in a German stream in 1945, after losing it down the toilet in 1939 at the Roseland Ballroom in
Roxbury ,
Boston , to the strains of the jazz standard 'Cherokee', upon which tune Charlie Parker was simultaneously inventing
bebop
in New York, as Pynchon describes). In
Vineland , both Zoyd Wheeler and Isaiah Two Four are also musicians: Zoyd played keyboards in a '60s
surf
band called "The Corvairs", while Isaiah played in a
punk
band called "Billy Barf and the Vomitones". In
Mason & Dixon , one of the characters plays on the "Clavier" the varsity drinking song which will later become " The Star-Spangled Banner "; whilst in another episode a character remarks tangentially
"Sometimes, it's hard to be a woman" .
In his introduction to
Slow Learner , Pynchon acknowledges a debt to the anarchic bandleader
Spike Jones , and in 1994, he penned a 3000-word set of
liner notes
for the album
Spiked! , a collection of Jones's recordings released on the short-lived BMG Catalyst label. Pynchon also wrote the liner notes for
Nobody's Cool , the second album of
indie rock
band
Lotion , in which he states that "rock and roll remains one of the last honorable callings, and a working band is a miracle of everyday life. Which is basically what these guys do." He is also known to be a fan of
Roky Erickson .
Investigations and digressions into the realms of
human sexuality ,
psychology ,
sociology ,
mathematics ,
science , and
technology
recur throughout Pynchon's works. One of his earliest short stories, "Low-lands" (1960), features a meditation on
Heisenberg's
uncertainty principle
as a metaphor for telling stories about one's own experiences. His next published work, "Entropy" (1960), introduced
the concept
which was to become synonymous with Pynchon's name (though Pynchon later admitted the "shallowness of [his] understanding" of the subject, and noted that choosing an abstract concept first and trying to construct a narrative around it was "a lousy way to go about writing a story"). Another early story, "Under the Rose" (1961), includes amongst its cast of characters a
cyborg
set anachronistically in
Victorian-era
Egypt
(a type of writing now called
steampunk ). This story, significantly reworked by Pynchon, appears as Chapter 3 of
V.
"The Secret Integration" (1964), Pynchon's last published short story, is a sensitively-handled
coming-of-age
tale in which a group of young boys face the consequences of the American policy of
racial integration . At one point in the story, the boys attempt to understand the new policy by way of the
mathematical operation , the only sense of the word with which they are familiar.
The Crying of Lot 49
also alludes to entropy and
communication theory , and contains scenes and descriptions which parody or appropriate
calculus ,
Zeno's paradoxes , and the
thought experiment
known as
Maxwell's demon . At the same time, the novel also investigates
homosexuality ,
celibacy
and both medically-sanctioned and illicit
psychedelic drug
use.
Gravity's Rainbow
describes many varieties of sexual
fetishism
(including
sado-masochism ,
coprophilia
and a borderline case of
tentacle rape ), and features numerous episodes of drug use, most notably
marijuana
but also
cocaine , naturally occurring
hallucinogens , and the mushroom
Amanita muscaria .
Gravity's Rainbow
also derives much from Pynchon's background in mathematics: at one point, the geometry of garter belts is compared with that of
cathedral
spires, both described as
mathematical singularities .
Mason & Dixon
explores the scientific, theological, and socio-cultural foundations of the
Age of Reason
whilst also depicting the relationships between actual historical figures and fictional characters in intricate detail and, like
Gravity's Rainbow , is an archetypal example of the genre of
historiographic metafiction .
Influence
This section
needs additional
citations
for
verification . Please help
improve this article
by adding
reliable references . Unsourced material may be
challenged
and
removed .
(May 2010)
An eclectic catalogue of Pynchonian precursors has been proposed by readers and critics. Beside overt references in the novels to writers as disparate as
Henry Adams ,
Ludwig Wittgenstein ,
Giorgio de Chirico ,
Emily Dickinson ,
William March ,
Rainer Maria Rilke ,
Jorge Luis Borges ,
Ishmael Reed ,
Ralph Waldo Emerson ,
Patrick O'Brian , and
Umberto Eco
and to an eclectic mix of iconic religious and philosophical sources, credible comparisons with works by
Rabelais ,
Cervantes ,
Laurence Sterne ,
Edgar Allan Poe ,
Nathaniel Hawthorne ,
Herman Melville ,
Charles Dickens ,
Joseph Conrad ,
Thomas Mann ,
William S. Burroughs ,
Ralph Ellison ,
Patrick White , and
Toni Morrison
have been made. [ citation needed ]
Some commentators have detected similarities with those writers in the
Modernist
tradition who wrote extremely long novels dealing with large
metaphysical
or
political
issues. Examples of such works might include
Ulysses
by
James Joyce ,
A Passage to India
by
E.M. Forster ,
The Castle
by
Franz Kafka ,
The Apes of God
by
Wyndham Lewis ,
The Man Without Qualities
by
Robert Musil , and
U.S.A.
by
John Dos Passos . [ citation needed ]
In his 'Introduction' to
Slow Learner , Pynchon explicitly acknowledges his debt to
Beat Generation
writers, and expresses his admiration for
Jack Kerouac 's
On the Road
in particular; he also reveals his familiarity with literary works by
T. S. Eliot ,
Ernest Hemingway ,
Henry Miller ,
Saul Bellow ,
Herbert Gold ,
Philip Roth
and
Norman Mailer , and non-fiction works by
Helen Waddell ,
Norbert Wiener
and
Isaac Asimov . [ page needed ]
Comparisons with other authors Contemporary American authors whose fiction is often categorized alongside Pynchon's include
John Hawkes ,
Kurt Vonnegut ,
Robert Anton Wilson ,
Joseph Heller ,
Donald Barthelme ,
Steve Erickson ,
John Barth ,
William Gaddis ,
Don DeLillo , and
Joseph McElroy
(Mead 1989; Krafft 2008).
The wildly eccentric characters, frenzied action, frequent digressions, and imposing lengths of Pynchon's novels have led critic
James Wood
to classify Pynchon's work as
hysterical realism . Other writers whose work has been labeled as hysterical realism include
Steve Erickson ,
Neal Stephenson , and
Zadie Smith .
Epigones Younger contemporary writers who have been touted as heirs to Pynchon include
David Foster Wallace ,
William Vollmann ,
Richard Powers ,
Steve Erickson ,
David Mitchell ,
Neal Stephenson ,
Dave Eggers , and
Tommaso Pincio
whose pseudonym is an Italian rendering of Pynchon's name. [ citation needed ]
Pynchon's work has been cited as an influence and inspiration by many writers and artists, including
T. Coraghessan Boyle ,
David Foster Wallace ,
Don DeLillo ,
Ian Rankin ,
William Gibson ,
Elfriede Jelinek ,
Rick Moody ,
Alan Moore ,
Arturo Pérez-Reverte ,
Richard Powers ,
Salman Rushdie ,
Neal Stephenson ,
Bruce Sterling ,
Jan Wildt ,
Laurie Anderson ,
Zak Smith ,
David Cronenberg , and
Adam Rapp .
Thanks to his influence on Gibson and Stephenson in particular, Pynchon became one of the progenitors of
cyberpunk
fiction; a 1987 essay in
Spin
magazine by
Timothy Leary
explicitly named
Gravity's Rainbow
as the "Old Testament" of cyberpunk, with Gibson's
Neuromancer
and its sequels as the "New Testament". Though the term "cyberpunk" did not become prevalent until the early 1980s, since Leary's article many readers have retroactively included
Gravity's Rainbow
in the genre, along with other works —
e.g.,
Samuel R. Delany 's
Dhalgren
and many works of
Philip K. Dick
— which seem, after the fact, to anticipate cyberpunk styles and themes. The
encyclopedic
nature of Pynchon's novels also led to some attempts to link his work with the short-lived
hypertext fiction
movement of the 1990s ( Page 2002 ;
Krämer 2005 ).
Media scrutiny of private life Relatively little is known about Thomas Pynchon's private life; he has carefully avoided contact with reporters for more than forty years. Only a few photos of him are known to exist, nearly all from his high school and college days, and his whereabouts have often remained undisclosed.
A review of
V.
in the
New York Times Book Review
described Pynchon as "a recluse" living in Mexico, thereby introducing the
media
label with which journalists have characterized him throughout his career ( Plimpton 1963 : 5). Nonetheless, Pynchon's personal absence from
mass media
is one of the notable features of his life, and it has generated many rumors and apocryphal anecdotes.
1970s and 1980s After the publication and success of
Gravity's Rainbow , interest mounted in finding out more about the identity of the author. At the 1974
National Book Award
ceremony, the president of
Viking Press , Tom Guinzberg, arranged for double-talking comedian
"Professor" Irwin Corey
to accept the prize on Pynchon's behalf (Royster 2005). Many of the assembled guests had no idea who Corey was, and, having never seen the author, they assumed that it was Pynchon himself on the stage delivering Corey's trademark torrent of rambling, pseudo-scholarly verbiage ( Corey 1974 ). Towards the end of Corey's address a streaker ran through the hall, adding further to the confusion.
An article published in the
Soho Weekly News
claimed that Pynchon was in fact
J. D. Salinger
( Batchelor 1976 ). Pynchon's written response to this theory (reported in
Tanner 1982 ) was simple: "Not bad. Keep trying."
Thereafter, the first piece to provide substantial information about Pynchon's personal life was a biographical account written by a former Cornell University friend,
Jules Siegel , and published in
Playboy
magazine. In his article, Siegel reveals that Pynchon had a
complex
about his teeth and underwent extensive and painful reconstructive surgery, was nicknamed "Tom" at Cornell and attended
Mass
diligently, acted as
best man
at Siegel's wedding, and that he later also had an affair with Siegel's wife. Siegel recalls Pynchon saying he did attend some of
Vladimir Nabokov 's lectures at Cornell but that he could hardly make out what Nabokov was saying because of his thick Russian accent. Siegel also records Pynchon's comment that "[e]very weirdo in the world is on my wavelength", an observation borne out by the
crankiness
and
zealotry
which has attached itself to his name and work in subsequent years. ( Siegel 1977 )
In the late 1980s, author
Robert Clark Young
prevailed upon his father, an employee of the
California
Department of Motor Vehicles, to look up Pynchon's driving record, using Pynchon's full name and known birth date. The results showed that Pynchon was living at the time in
Aptos, California , and was driving a 1974
Datsun
( Young 1992 ). The cancelled license subsequently found its way into the hands of at least two academics publishing scholarly work on Pynchon.
1990s Pynchon does not like to talk with reporters, and refuses the spectacle of
celebrity
and public appearances. Journalists have continued to speculate about his identity and activities, and characterized his mass media avoidance as "reclusive". More astute [ citation needed ]
readers and critics recognized that there were and are perhaps aesthetic (and ideological) motivations behind his choice to remain aloof from public life. For example, the protagonist in
Janette Turner Hospital 's short story, "For Mr. Voss or Occupant" (publ. 1991), explains to her daughter that she is writing
a study of authors who become reclusive.
Patrick White ,
Emily Dickinson ,
J. D. Salinger , Thomas Pynchon. The way they create solitary characters and
personae
and then disappear into their fictions. — Hospital 1995 ,
361–2 More recently, book critic Arthur Salm has written that
the man simply chooses not to be a public figure, an attitude that resonates on a frequency so out of phase with that of the prevailing culture that if Pynchon and
Paris Hilton
were ever to meet — the circumstances, I admit, are beyond imagining — the resulting matter/ antimatter
explosion would vaporize everything from here to
Tau Ceti
IV. — Salm 2004 Belying this reputation somewhat, Pynchon has published a number of articles and reviews in the mainstream American media, including words of support for Salman Rushdie and his then-wife,
Marianne Wiggins , after the
fatwa
was pronounced
against Rushdie
by the
Iranian
leader,
Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini
( Pynchon 1989 ). In the following year, Rushdie's enthusiastic review of Pynchon's
Vineland
prompted Pynchon to send him another message hinting that if Rushdie were ever in New York, the two should arrange a meeting. Eventually, the two did meet, and Rushdie said of him that he was "extremely Pynchon-esque" and "the Pynchon he wanted him to be." [4]
In the early 1990s, Pynchon married his literary agent,
Melanie Jackson
— a great-granddaughter of
Theodore Roosevelt
and a granddaughter of
Robert H. Jackson , U.S. Supreme Court Justice and Nuremberg trials prosecutor — and fathered a son, Jackson, in 1991. The disclosure of Pynchon's 1990s location in New York City, after many years in which he was believed to be dividing his time between Mexico and northern California, led some journalists and photographers to try to track him down. Shortly before the publication of
Mason & Dixon
in 1997, a
CNN
camera crew filmed him in
Manhattan . Angered by this invasion of his privacy, he called CNN asking that he not be identified in the footage of the street scenes near his home. When asked by CNN, Pynchon rejected their characterization of him as a recluse, remarking "My belief is that 'recluse' is a code word generated by journalists ... meaning, 'doesn't like to talk to reporters'." CNN also quoted him as saying, "Let me be unambiguous. I prefer not to be photographed." ( CNN 1997 ) The next year, a reporter for the
Sunday Times
managed to snap a photo of him as he was walking with his son ( Bone 1998 ).
After several references to Pynchon's work and reputation were made on
NBC 's
The John Larroquette Show ,
Pynchon (through his agent) reportedly contacted the show's producers to offer suggestions and corrections. When a local Pynchon sighting became a major plot point in a 1994 episode of the show, Pynchon was sent the script for his approval; as well as providing the title of a fictitious work to be used in one episode ("Pandemonium of the Sun"), the novelist apparently vetoed a final scene that called for an extra playing him to be filmed from behind, walking away from shot ( CNN 1997 ;
Glenn 2003 ). Also during the 1990s, Pynchon apparently befriended members of the band
Lotion
and attended a number of their shows, culminating in the liner notes he contributed for the band's 1995 album
Nobody's Cool . The novelist then conducted an interview with the band ("Lunch With Lotion") for
Esquire
in June 1996 in the lead-up to the publication of
Mason & Dixon . More recently, Pynchon provided
faxed
answers to questions submitted by author
David Hajdu
and permitted excerpts from his personal correspondence to be quoted in Hajdu's 2001 book,
Positively 4th Street: The Lives and Times of
Joan Baez ,
Bob Dylan , Mimi Baez Fariña and
Richard Fariña
( Warner 2001 ).
Pynchon's insistence on maintaining his personal
privacy
and on having his work speak for itself has resulted in a number of outlandish rumors and hoaxes over the years. Indeed, claims that Pynchon was the
Unabomber
or a sympathizer with the Waco
Branch Davidians
after the 1993 siege were upstaged in the mid-1990s by the invention of an elaborate rumor insinuating that Pynchon and one " Wanda Tinasky " were the same person. [ citation needed ]
A spate of letters authored under that name had appeared in the late 1980s in the
Anderson Valley Advertiser
in
Anderson Valley ,
California . The style and content of those letters were said to resemble Pynchon's, and Pynchon's
Vineland , published in 1990, also takes place in northern California, so it was suggested [ who? ]
that Pynchon may have been in the area at that time, conducting research. A collection of the Tinasky letters was eventually published as a paperback book in 1996; however, Pynchon himself denied having written the letters, and no direct attribution of the letters to Pynchon was ever made. "Literary detective"
Donald Foster
subsequently showed that the
Letters
were in fact written by an obscure
Beat
writer called Tom Hawkins, who had murdered his wife and then committed suicide in 1988. Foster's evidence was conclusive, including finding the typewriter on which the "Tinasky" letters had been written ( Foster 2000 ).
In 1998, over 120 letters that Pynchon had written to his longtime agent, Candida Donadio, were donated by the family of private collector, Carter Burden, to the Pierpont Morgan Library in New York City. The letters ranged from 1963 to 1982, thus covering some of the author's most creative and prolific years. Although the Morgan Library originally intended to allow scholars to view the letters, at Pynchon’s request the Burden family and Morgan Library agreed to seal these letters until after Pynchon's death. (Gussow 1998)
2000s After the
September 11 attacks , a supposed "interview" with Pynchon appeared in an issue of
Playboy
Japan. Published under the heading "Most News is Propaganda. Bin Laden May Not Exist", it purported to be a talk with Pynchon on the events of 9/11 and
Osama Bin Laden . Its authenticity has been questioned by experts and it has never been republished in the American media. [ citation needed ]
Pynchon depicted in
The Simpsons
episode "Diatribe of a Mad Housewife". His
Simpsons
appearances are some of the few occasions that Pynchon's voice has been broadcast in the media. Responding to the image which has been manufactured in the media over the years, during 2004, Pynchon made two cameo animated appearances on the television series
The Simpsons . The first occurs in the episode " Diatribe of a Mad Housewife ", in which
Marge Simpson
becomes a novelist. He plays himself, with a paper bag over his head, and provides a blurb for the back cover of Marge's book, speaking in a broad Long Island accent: "Here's your quote: Thomas Pynchon loved this book, almost as much as he loves cameras!" He then starts yelling at passing cars: "Hey, over here, have your picture taken with a reclusive author! Today only, we'll throw in a free autograph! But, wait! There's more!" [5] [6]
In his second appearance, in " All's Fair in Oven War ", Pynchon's dialogue consists entirely of
puns
on his novel titles ("These wings are 'V'-licious! I'll put this recipe in 'The Gravity's Rainbow Cookbook', right next to 'The Frying of
Latke
49'."). The cartoon representation of Pynchon reappears in a third, non-speaking cameo, as a guest at the fictional WordLoaf convention depicted in the 18th season (2006) episode, " Moe'N'a Lisa ". The episode first aired on November 19, 2006, the Sunday before Pynchon's sixth novel,
Against the Day , was released.
In July 2006,
Amazon.com
created a page showing an upcoming 992-page, untitled, Thomas Pynchon novel. A description of the soon-to-be published novel appeared on Amazon purporting to be written by Pynchon himself. The description was taken down, prompting speculation over its authenticity, but the blurb was soon back up along with the title of Pynchon's new novel,
Against the Day .
Shortly before
Against the Day
was published, Pynchon's prose appeared in the program for " The Daily Show : Ten Fu@#ing Years (The Concert)", a retrospective on
Jon Stewart 's comedy-news broadcast
The Daily Show.' [7]
On December 6, 2006, Pynchon joined a campaign by many other major authors to clear
Ian McEwan
of plagiarism charges by sending a
typewritten
letter to his British publisher, which was published in the
Daily Telegraph
newspaper ( Pynchon 2006 ).
Pynchon's 2009 YouTube promotional teaser for the novel
Inherent Vice
is the second time a recording of his voice has been released to mainstream outlets (the first being his appearances on
The Simpsons ) ( Meerkat Media 2009 ).
David Eden Lane
(November 2, 1938 – May 28, 2007) was an American
white nationalist
leader and convicted felon. A founding member of
The Order , he died while serving a 190-year prison sentence in the
Federal Correctional Complex
in
Terre Haute, Indiana . [ 1 ]
Lane was born as the third of four siblings in
Woden, Iowa ; he had a brother and two sisters. His father was an
alcoholic
migrant worker
who was
physically abusive
towards his wife and children. David would later claim that his father forced his mother to engage in
prostitution
so he could obtain "booze money", and that his older brother was rendered with permanent
deafness
as a result of a "beating gone awry". [ 2 ]
When David was four years old, his father abandoned his family. In 1944, his older brother was arrested after searching for food in a neighbor's trash bins, and he and his sisters were placed in
foster care . Lane was soon adopted by a traveling
Lutheran
minister, which resulted in Lane's being separated from his two sisters. Lane has described his adoptive father as a "doctrinaire fundamentalist from the old school". [ 3 ]
Bored with endless hours of church services, Lane rejected
Christianity
and originally shared relatively
pagan
beliefs. [ 3 ]
Lane claims that he first noticed the beauty of the
Caucasian race
after befriending a blonde-haired girl in first grade whom he was attracted to. [ 2 ]
Lane has also stated that while he reenacted battles with his foster brother as a child, he would portray a
Nazi stormtrooper
while his brother portrayed an American soldier. [ 2 ]
Travelling across
Midwestern United States
with his adoptive family, Lane finally settled in
Aurora, Colorado , where he attended
Hinkley High School . [ 4 ]
Originally aspiring to become a
golf professional , [ 4 ]
Lane worked as
real estate broker
until his license was revoked because, he "wouldn't sell homes to
coloreds
in white neighborhoods." [ 5 ]
Lane was a member of the
John Birch Society
before joining the
Ku Klux Klan , becoming the organizer of the
Denver
unit of the
Knights of the Ku Klux Klan
in 1979. In late 1981, Lane became Colorado State Organizer of
Aryan Nations . [ 5 ]
Lane met
Robert Jay Mathews
in July 1983 at the Aryan Nations world congress. [ 6 ]
On September 22, 1983, Lane was among the nine founding members to be sworn into
The Order , a group which dedicated itself to delivering "our people from the
Jew
and bring total victory to the
Aryan race ." [ 7 ]
The Order was accused of stealing over $4.1 million in armored car hijackings, killing two people, detonating bombs,
counterfeiting
money, organizing militaristic training camps and carrying out numerous other crimes with the ultimate goal of overthrowing the
United States government . [ 8 ]
Convictions and incarceration For his role in The Order's crimes, Lane was sentenced to consecutive sentences totaling 190 years, including 20 years for
racketeering , 20 years for
conspiracy , both under the
Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act
(RICO), and 150 years for violating the civil rights of
Alan Berg , a
Jewish
radio talk show
host, who was murdered on June 18, 1984. [ 9 ]
Berg was shot and killed in the driveway of his
Denver
home by three members of The Order. [ 10 ]
Lane was arrested on the evening of March 30, 1985 in
Winston-Salem, North Carolina . [ 11 ]
Lane was also among 14 men prosecuted for
sedition
in
Fort Smith, Arkansas , but he was
acquitted . Lane was considered extremely dangerous by the American justice system and was incarcerated at various times after his conviction in the
United States Penitentiary, Marion , the
United States Penitentiary Administrative Maximum Facility
in
Florence, Colorado , and the
Federal Correctional Complex, Terre Haute .
While incarcerated, he had the
Federal Bureau of Prisons
ID # 12873-057. [ 12 ]
Lane wrote books and articles about
gematria
and the demographic and socio-political state of the white race for white nationalist periodicals and websites. With his wife and Ron McVan, he ran a publishing company called
14 Word
Publications in
Idaho
to disseminate his writings.
His voice was featured in
Nazi Pop Twins , a documentary aired on July 19, 2007, on
Channel 4
in the UK. [ 13 ]
In it he was shown speaking by phone with
Prussian Blue
and termed them "fantasy sweethearts" and that he viewed them like daughters. [ 14 ]
Lane's earliest possible release date from prison would have been on March 29, 2035 (at age 96). He died on May 28, 2007, in the Federal Correctional Complex, Terre Haute due to an
epileptic seizure . [ 15 ]
On June 30, 2007, white nationalists held memorial demonstrations for Lane in cities across the
United States ,
England ,
Germany ,
Russia
and
Ukraine . [ 16 ]
Beliefs   Racial views Lane stated his views can be best summarized by the
14 words , a term he coined: "We must secure the existence of our people and a future for White children." He held that view "because the beauty of the White Aryan woman must not perish from the earth." [ 17 ]
Lane believed white people needed their own ethnostate to survive and stated, "Today, in the year 2005, approximately two percent of earth's population is White female of child bearing age or younger... The remaining whites are hopelessly integrated, terrorized,
brain washed ,
miscegenated
and are rapidly being overrun by six billion coloreds." [ 18 ]
He believed that Christianity is problematic to white people because its philosophies are anti-nature and Jewish in origin. He preferred a nature-based European Paganism as the original religion of whites. Similarly he believed that completely white nations are necessary to eliminate miscegenation. He considered white people who supported what he characterized as the "Zionist conspiracy" to be " race traitors ." [ 19 ]
Lane authored the
88 Precepts , a collection of statements on
natural law , which combine in white nationalist shorthand to "14-88" or "14/88".
[ 20 ]
Wotanism Lane was a major proponent of
Wotanism , inspired by an 1936 essay by
Carl Jung
titled "Wotan". Lane had expressed derision for the
Odinist
religion, whose adherents rejected what they perceived as his attempt to appropriate their religion for political and
racist
ends. Lane explained his motivations:
“ So, I first chose the name Wotanism over Odinism. First because W.O.T.A.N. makes a perfect acronym for the Will Of The
Aryan Nation . Secondly because he was called Wotan on the European continent and only called
Odin
in
Scandinavia . Therefore
Wotan
appeals to the genetic memory of more of our ancestors. And finally because a split had to be made with the game players, deceivers and
universalists
who had usurped the name
Odin . [ 21 ] ”
Lane contributed a one-page introduction to a book by Ron McVan called
Creed of Iron: Wotansvolk Wisdom
which the
Odinic Rite
claims was heavily
plagiarized
from
The Book of Blotar . [ citation needed ]
Wotansvolk and 14 Word Publications are now defunct and no longer have mailing addresses or websites. The Temple of Wotan still exists, but the organization was no longer run by Lane or his associates and has distanced itself from racist and neo-Nazi ideologies. [ 22 ]
Based on letters written from prison to his supporters, Lane appeared to remain committed to spreading his message through Wotanism, and it is unclear what his final relationship was with The Temple of Wotan.
In 2004, Lane authored a short story entitled
KD Rebel , which is set in the near future and tells the story of a Wotanist colony who have established tenuous control over portions of Western
Colorado ,
Utah ,
Idaho ,
Montana
and
Wyoming ,which they call Kinsland. The story mostly focuses on the Kinslanders' practice of kidnapping
miscegenating
or "wayward" young girls and women from urban areas, in order to indoctrinate them into
Wotanism
and so the Kinslanders can practice
polygamy
and have large numbers of children. Lane advocated the inclusion of polygamy as part of Wotanism. [ 23 ]
Personal life Lane married Mary Lou soon after high school; they separated. From 1994 until his death he was married to Katuscha 'Katya' Maddox.
Postagens mais recentes
Postagens mais antigas
Página inicial
Assinar:
Postagens (Atom)
Arquivo do blog
►
2015
(52)
10
(2)
9
(2)
8
(8)
7
(5)
6
(4)
5
(13)
4
(1)
3
(8)
2
(5)
1
(4)
►
2014
(50)
12
(6)
11
(3)
10
(10)
9
(2)
8
(8)
7
(2)
6
(2)
5
(2)
4
(1)
3
(3)
2
(6)
1
(5)
►
2013
(50)
12
(3)
11
(6)
10
(4)
9
(5)
8
(1)
7
(2)
6
(4)
5
(11)
4
(3)
3
(2)
2
(3)
1
(6)
►
2012
(81)
12
(6)
11
(7)
10
(11)
9
(7)
8
(3)
7
(7)
6
(4)
5
(6)
4
(7)
3
(8)
2
(9)
1
(6)
▼
2011
(147)
12
(11)
11
(12)
10
(7)
9
(6)
8
(7)
7
(14)
6
(12)
5
(16)
4
(21)
3
(14)
2
(12)
1
(15)
►
2010
(80)
12
(10)
11
(7)
10
(14)
9
(4)
8
(8)
7
(7)
6
(6)
5
(8)
4
(9)
3
(3)
2
(1)
1
(3)
►
2009
(97)
12
(1)
11
(5)
10
(10)
9
(11)
8
(14)
7
(14)
6
(4)
5
(3)
4
(8)
3
(11)
2
(4)
1
(12)
►
2008
(64)
12
(3)
11
(19)
10
(4)
9
(8)
8
(9)
7
(21)
editor
Visualizar meu perfil completo
Modelo Simple. Tecnologia do
Blogger .