The Irresistible Force - Travel News
Travel News
Picture Gallery
Archives
Guestbook
THE IRRESISTIBLE FORCE
Travel News
Picture Gallery
Archives
Guestbook
Top
Travel News
Picture Gallery
Archives
Guestbook
Navigation
Links
RSS Feed
Search this site
Entries in routes
(4)
Tuesday Jun 28 2011
Turkish Airlines inaugurates service to Basra and Naples
Tuesday, June 28, 2011 at 8:48AM
Turkish Airlines
starts two new routes today, from its hub at
Mustafa Kemal Atatürk International Airport
( IATA : IST;
ICAO : LTBA) in
Istanbul .  The newest destinations in the Turkish national airline's network are the Iraqi city of Basra, and the Italian city of
Naples .  The Istanbul-Basra route will operate through Basra International Airport (IATA: BSR; ICAO: ORMM) in southern Iraq.  The Istanbul-Naples route will operate through
Ugo Niutta Airport
(IATA: NAP; ICAO: LIRN) on the
Gulf of Naples
and the
Tyrrhenian Sea .
The Istanbul-Basra non-stop will operate in both directions three times a week, on Tuesday, Thursday, and Saturday.  It is 3 hours 15 minutes long southeast-bound, and is 3 hours 25 minutes long northwest-bound.  It will be flown with the
Boeing
737-800 , according to search results returned by the airline ticket booking engine at
www.kayak.com/flights .  The Istanbul-Naples non-stop will operate in both directions three times a week, on Tuesday, Friday, and Saturday.  It is 2 hours 25 minutes long westbound, and is 2 hours 15 minutes long eastbound.  It will be flown with the
Airbus
A319 , according to
www.kayak.com .
Georgian national airline
Airzena Georgian Airways
also started a new seasonal route.  The airline will fly non-stop between the Georgian town of
Batumi
(IATA:
BUS ; ICAO: UGSB) on the Black Sea, to
Moscow , the Russian capital (IATA: DME; ICAO: UUDD).  According to
Bloomberg , these will be
"weekly charter flights,"
and will operate until October.
Two airlines based in
Scandinavia
also added new routes within the last day.  The largest airline based in the region,
Scandinavian Airlines
(SAS), launched service between
Oslo 's
Gardermoen Airport
(IATA: OSL; ICAO: ENGM) and the Croatian seaside ( Adriatic ) town of
Split
(IATA:
SPU ; ICAO: LDSP).  This route will run three times a week, on Monday, Friday, and Saturday, according to Kayak.  Oslo, a city of 605,000 people, was found to be the world's most expensive city, by the
Economist Intelligence Unit 's
Worldwide Cost of Living Survey .  Split, a city of 230,000 people, is the largest city in the Croatian region of
Dalmatia , namesake of the
Dalmatian
canine breed.
Scandinavian Airlines also launched two services between Scandinavia and the Spanish capital city,
Madrid .  One route will fly between Gardermoen Airport and
Barajas Airport
(IATA: MAD; ICAO: LEMD) in central Spain.  This route will operate two times a week, on Tuesday and Saturday, according to Kayak.  The other will fly between
Arlanda Airport
in
Stockholm
(IATA: ARN; ICAO: ESSA) and the Spanish capital twice weekly, on Monday and Friday.
Also, budget carrier
Norwegian Air Shuttle
has commenced non-stop service between Gardermoen Airport and two destinations in the Balkans.  Those are
Sarajevo
(IATA:
SJJ ; ICAO: LQSA) and
Pristina
(IATA:
PRN ; ICAO: BKPR).  According to search results from Norwegian Air Shuttle's website, the Oslo-Sarajevo route will be flown twice weekly, on Monday and Thursday in both directions.  According to the same source, the Oslo-Pristina route will be flown twice weekly, on Monday and Friday in both directions.
Like many low-fare carriers, Norwegian Air Shuttle operates only one model of aircraft.  The route will be flown with some variant of the Boeing 737, either the
-300
or the -800.
original stories
Turkish Airlines announces its first flights to Al Basrah (Iraq) and Naples (Italy)
(Turkish Airlines)
New flight Batumi - Moscow - Batumi starting from 21 June, 11
(Airzena Georgian Airways)
Georgian Airline Begins First Direct Batumi Flights to Moscow
(Bloomberg)
Click on the
Google +1 button
below if you like the article!
by
Jared Scott
|
1 Comment
|
3 References
|
Print Article
tagged
BSR ,
Basra ,
Boeing 737 ,
IST ,
NAP ,
Naples ,
Turkish Airlines ,
destinations ,
hub ,
network ,
routes ,
service
in
airline business and marketing ,
airlines based in Asia ,
airlines based in Europe ,
new airline routes
Thursday Nov 18 2010
AA flies between NYC & Rio, Cincy, Indy, Norfolk, Ft. Lauderdale
Thursday, November 18, 2010 at 8:08PM
Today
American Airlines
launched five new non-stop routes, one international and four domestic.  All involve the American Airlines hub
Kennedy International Airport
( IATA : JFK;
ICAO : KJFK), in
New York .  The new routes involve
Galeão International Airport
(IATA: GIG; ICAO: SBGL) in
Rio de Janeiro ,
Brazil ;
Cincinnati/Northern Kentucky International Airport
(IATA: CVG; ICAO: KCVG);
Indianapolis International Airport
(IATA: IND; ICAO: KIND);
Norfolk International Airport
(IATA: ORF; ICAO: KORF) in the American commonwealth of
Virginia ; and
Fort Lauderdale International Airport
(IATA: FLL; ICAO: KFLL) in the American state of
Florida .  Four of the five routes will operate daily, in each direction.  The New York- Fort Lauderdale
route will operate twice daily in each direction.  Art Torno, American's Vice President - New York, indicated in a statement that these routes are aimed at both business travelers and leisure travelers.
American Airlines was founded in 1930 in New York, when dozens of smaller airlines combined to form American Airways.  It now operates 621 aircraft to 260 destinations, in
North America ,
South America ,
Europe , and
Asia .  It is the second-largest airline in the world by the former measure, and is the world’s third-largest airline by the latter measure.  The company moved its main offices to
Dallas ,
Texas  in 1979.  This relocation was criticized as a betrayal by then-New York mayor Ed Koch.  American’s main hub is
Dallas-Fort Worth International Airport
(IATA: DFW; ICAO: KDFW), and its main offices are in Dallas.
original stories
AA, American Eagle announce new flights
(Yahoo News)
American Airlines and American Eagle Launch Nonstop Jet Service to Five Cities From New York's JFK Airport   (American Airlines)
Update
on Sunday, November 21, 2010 at 5:35PM by
Jared Scott
Last Thursday, American Airlines also commenced a non-stop round trip route between
O'Hare International Airport
(IATA: ORD; ICAO: KORD) in
Chicago , and
Manhattan ,
Kansas
(IATA: MHK; ICAO: KMHK), the home of
Kansas State University .  The carrier also publicized plans to launch round-trip service at
Miami International Airport
(IATA: MIA; ICAO: KMIA) to several domestic destinations, "including
Cincinnati
and
Columbus ,
Ohio ;
Indianapolis , and
Pittsburgh ."
AA, American Eagle announce new flights
(Yahoo News)
by
Jared Scott
|
Post a Comment
|
2 References
|
Print Article
tagged
American Airlines ,
Cincinnati ,
Fort Lauderdale ,
Indianapolis ,
JFK ,
Norfolk ,
Rio de Janeiro ,
non-stop ,
routes
in
airline business and marketing ,
airlines based in North America ,
new airline routes
Tuesday Nov 16 2010
Qantas adapts aircraft route assignments after A380 failure
Tuesday, November 16, 2010 at 11:48AM
Australia 's
Qantas Airways
posted to its website late last week that they are reassigning routes originally flown by their six grounded
Airbus
A380
aircraft, to other Airbus planes, and to the
Boeing
planes in its fleet.  Routes normally flown by the substituted Boeing planes have been assigned to other Airbus planes.  Qantas specifically mentioned routes involving the domestic destinations
Sydney
and
Perth , and the international destinations
Singapore ,
Hong Kong , and
Tokyo
( Narita International Airport
in particular) as being affected by the reassignments.
From November 5, the first full day during which the airline's six A380s were grounded, to November 11, Qantas operated all but seven scheduled flights across its "international network," according to
the press release .
Qantas stressed that their six grounded A380s "will not return to service until there is complete certainty that the fleet [of A380s] can operate safely."
Singapore Airlines returned one of its grounded airplanes to service last Friday.   The Singaporean national airline, which
immediately grounded
its fleet of 11 A380s upon hearing of the Qantas Singapore-Sydney engine failure, returned all 11 to service the next day following tests.  Then upon discovering oil stains on some of the
Rolls-Royce
Trent 900
engines which power the carrier's A380s, it again grounded three of the super jumbo planes.  A second of the three was returned to service last Saturday.
Qantas,
Singapore Airlines , and
Lufthansa , the three airlines that fly the Airbus A380 with the Rolls-Royce Trent 900 engines,
"may need to replace one component " in the engines, before returning the airplanes to service.
Dubai -based
Emirates , which also operates the A380, continues to fly the newest Airbus model with no problems.
According to Emirates , the Airbus A380s operated by Emirates use the
Engine Alliance -manufactured
GP7000
engine, rather than the recently troubled Rolls-Royce Trent 900 engine.
According to Engine Alliance , the engine they build to power the A380 is the GP7200.  Engine Alliance refers to an alliance between
General Electric
(GE) and
Pratt & Whitney , formed in 1996 for the purpose of manufacturing aircraft engines for high capacity, long range aircraft.
related story
Qantas continues A380 engine inspection after mid-air failure  (November 8, 2010)
original stories
A380 Update - Qantas Confirms International Network Availability
(Qantas Airways)
Singapore Air Returns One A380 to Service After Engine Change
(Bloomberg)
Qantas, Singapore Airlines, Lufthansa May Need A380 Engine Fix
(Bloomberg)
by
Jared Scott
|
Post a Comment
|
3 References
|
Print Article
tagged
A380 ,
Airbus ,
GE ,
General Electric ,
Pratt & Whitney ,
Qantas ,
Rolls-Royce ,
Trent 900 ,
engine ,
failure ,
oil stains ,
routes
in
air travel safety ,
airline business and marketing ,
airlines based in Asia ,
airlines based in Australia, New Zealand, or Oceania ,
airlines based in Europe ,
new aircraft models
Saturday Aug 07 2010
Brussels Airlines and Continental Airlines codeshare
Saturday, August 7, 2010 at 9:22PM
Starting Monday, the Belgian air carrier
Brussels Airlines
will commence a codeshare agreement with the American-based carrier
Continental Airlines .  According to the codeshare agreement, Continental Airlines will place its codeshare symbol (CO) on routes flown by Brussels Airlines between Brussels and nine other destinations in
Europe ; and also on routes flown by Brussels Airlines between
the Belgian capital
and twelve destinations in
Africa .
Meanwhile, according to the codeshare agreement, Brussels Airlines will for its part, place its codeshare symbol (SN) on Continental's daily flights (one in each direction) between the Belgian capital and Continental's hub in the
New York
metropolitan area,
Liberty International Airport
near
Newark ,
New Jersey
( IATA : EWR;
ICAO : KEWR).  Brussels Airlines will also place its codeshare symbol on flights operated by Continental between Liberty International and five domestic destinations.  Those five are, alphabetically,
Cleveland ,
Ohio
( a Continental hub );
Dallas - Fort Worth ,
Texas ;
Fort Lauderdale ,
Florida ;
Houston , Texas (location of the carrier's headquarters); and
Orlando , Florida.
Brussels Airlines was formed in 2006 and commenced operations the following year.  The highest-profile airline based in
Germany ,
Lufthansa , owns a 45 percent share in Brussels Airlines.  The airline is headquartered in the Belgian town of
Diegem , in
Flemish Brabant , a province in the center of the country which completely surrounds the capital city.  The airline's largest hub is at
National Airport
in Brussels (IATA: BRU; ICAO: EBBR).
The company that eventually became Continental Airlines was founded in 1931 in  El Paso , Texas.  It commenced operations three years later.  It is a publicly owned airline whose stock is traded on the
New York Stock Exchange
(NYSE).  Earlier this year,
Continental Airlines signed an agreement  to merge with the
Chicago ,
Illinois -based carrier
United Airlines .
related stories
American and JetBlue launch partnership at JFK and Logan  (July 20, 2010)
BA-Iberia merger approved by the EU  (July 14, 2010)
Alitalia joins network of Air France/KLM and Delta  (July 5, 2010)
Qantas and China Eastern codeshare more flights  (June 25, 2010)
JAL and AA take another step toward anti-trust immunity  (June 24, 2010)
United Airlines and Jet Airways agree to codeshare  (June 18, 2010)
Malév and Etihad sign a codeshare deal  (June 9, 2010)
The United-Continental merger is not yet a sure thing  (May 19, 2010)
Two airlines looking for awards in Hamburg next week made a deal  (May 12, 2010)
United and Continental will probably merge  (May 3, 2010)
original story
(Continental Airlines)
by
Jared Scott
|
Post a Comment
|
1 Reference
|
Print Article
tagged
Brussels Airlines ,
Continental ,
Continental Airlines ,
United ,
United Airlines ,
agreement ,
codeshare ,
destinations ,
routes
in
airline business and marketing ,
airlines based in Europe ,
airlines based in North America ,
codeshare agreements
This work is licensed under a
Creative Commons License .
hostgator coupon code