Runyon Biographies - The Runyon Tree
The Runyon Tree
Search this site
Home My Guest Book Announcements My Runyon Line Photos The Runyon House Shaker Information Huguenot Heritage Runyon Allied Families Runyon Rumors My Hanshew Line My Nance Line Genealogy Family Poetry About Me Links Sitemap
Recently Added Items
Many Runyon Allied Families
I am in the process of reviewing and correcting this site.
Please be patient and check back later.
Mary Runyon-Hanshew
My Runyon Line ‎ > ‎ Genealogy ‎ > ‎
Runyon Biographies
Kentucky: A History of the State, Battle, Perrin, & Kniffin, 6th ed., 1887,
Oldham Co.
James M.
RUNYON , an old and prominent farmer of Oldham County, was born in
Fayette County, Ky., near Lexington, July 31, 1822, the ninth of thirteen
children born to John and Sarah (Stout)
RUNYON , natives of Kentucky and
New Jersey. John
RUNYON
was a farmer. In about 1848 he moved to Illinois
and lived and died there. Our subject followed farming from boyhood. He
settled where he now resides in 1853, and has 182 acres of good land all
well improved. In 1841 he married Jane, daughter of John and Sarah
Anderson, of Lexington, Ky. To this union was born one child, Sarah J.
Mrs.
RUNYON
died in 1842, and in 1844 our subject married Louisa Young,
daughter of Michael and Emily Young, of Shelby County. To this union were
born six children: Annie E., James E., Mary L., William A., Fannie E.,
Michael N. Of these James E. is deceased. The family are members of the
Christian Church.
From Rootsweb:
www.rootsweb.ancestry.com/~ilbiog/efrunyan.htm
EBEN F. RUNYAN
Source:
Album of Genealogy and Biography, Cook County, Illinois with Portraits
3rd ed. revised and extended (Chicago: Calumet Book & Engraving Co., 1895), pp. 47-48
EBEN FITCH RUNYAN, one of the most industrious and successful lawyers in Chicago, has been for over forty years actively engaged in practice in this city.
He has also been identified with its business interests and has borne his full share in building up the material, intellectual and moral interests of the city.
His father, Archibald Runyan, was a farmer in New York State, where he died December 4, 1838, and young Eben was early thrown upon his own resources.
His mother, Eva Viele, was a native of New York, born in Old Saratoga, in Saratoga County.
The subject of this biography was born December 3, 1831, in the town of Butler, Wayne County, New York.
In the spring of 1838, at the age of seven and one-half years, he began supporting himself by working upon a farm, and continued that occupation until sixteen years of age.
In the mean time he was permitted to attend the district school in winter, and laid the foundation which enabled him to secure a practical education in the hard school of experience.
He attended a school at Saratoga Springs, New York, for six months, and then became a clerk in the store of Capt. T. F. Comstock, at Wilton, Saratoga County, New York, where he continued one year.
In the spring of 1850 he came to Illinois and settled in Hebron, McHenry County.
He worked upon a farm in summer and taught school during the winter, continuing for three years.
In the spring of 1853 he entered Waukegan Academy, where he continued two terms, under the tutorship of Hon. Francis E. Clarke, still a prominent citizen of Waukegan.
He commenced the study of law with W. S. Searls, and at the end of two years was admitted to the Bar.
June 11, 1855, he located in Chicago and began practice, and has prosecuted a successful general law business ever since.
He early began to invest his savings in real estate, and has erected numerous buildings in the city, all of a good class. He has also been interested in farming, and was for several years engaged in the grain business.
He built two elevators in Chicago, and several small ones along the line of the Chicago & Danville Railroad.
Mr. Runyan was a member of the West Park Board from its first organization, and continued in that capacity until 1876, when business reverses caused him to resign in order to give closer attention to his private affairs. He takes a keen interest in the needs and development of the public-school system, and was for nine years a member of the Chicago Board of Education, serving one term as its Vice-President and was twice President of the Board. He has always been a patriotic citizen of the city, and has given aid and encouragement to the extent of his ability to every movement tending toward its proper development.
In religious matters he adheres to the Baptist Church, and has always been a consistent and straightforward Democrat in politics. During the Civil War he was one of the Committee of Five in the then Sixth Ward of Chicago to assist the families of soldiers at the front, and otherwise look after the prosecution of the struggle to preserve the Union. Among other duties, they furnished substitutes for several drafted men.
That committee consisted of John A. Tyrrell, George Sherwood, U. R. Hawley, James B. Bradwell and E. F. Runyan.
January 2, 1860, at Waukegan, Mr. Runyan was married to Miss Flora, daughter of E. W. and T. T. Avery, of Waukegan, Lake County, Illinois.
Mrs. Runyan was born at Brandon, Vermont, and moved from there with her parents to Lake County, Illinois, in 1843.
Mr. Runyan's family includes six children.
Emma F., the eldest, is now the wife of G. E. M. Pratt.
Eben F. Runyan, junior, and Edward D. Runyan are associated with their father in practice. Grace F. is the wife of S. S. Parks.
Julia M. is Mrs. Harrie E. Gordon; and Estelle M. still resides with her parents.
The career of Mr. Runyan is commended to the poor youth of the land as an example worthy of emulation and as affording encouragement in the struggle for advancement.
-- Submitted on 9/5/99 by Sherri Hessick (
slhessick@crosswinds.net
)
From the US Post Office
MARVIN RUNYON
CEO and PMG of the U.S. Postal Service
After two distinguished private sector careers and in the midst of a highly successful tenure as Chairman of the Tennessee Valley Authority (TVA), Marvin Runyon accepted an offer to become the 70th Postmaster General of the United States on May 5, 1992. Runyon took on the challenge offered him by the nine Presidentially appointed Governors of the Postal Service on July 6, 1992, and promptly went to work implementing many of the techniques that had marked his career first at Ford Motor Company, then at Nissan America and TVA.
Within six months of being on the job, Runyon built a new, leaner management structure better focused on meeting postal customer needs, supervised a financial revitalization and instituted service improvements. To reduce staffing without layoffs, he introduced incentives that led to more than 47,000 voluntary employee retirements by the end of 1992.
The changes all but eliminated a $2 billion deficit the Postal Service faced in 1993, set records for on-time service performance and customer satisfaction, and ended the need to raise postage rates early in 1994. It marked the first time since legislation created the Postal Service in 1970 that the organization had succeeded in keeping rates stable a record fourth year.
As Postmaster General and Chief Executive Officer, Runyon leads the Postal Service which, with its more than $50 billion budget and 730,000 employees, would be ranked as the eighth largest company if it were included in the Fortune 500.
He has built a strong pattern of success throughout his working life. Commenting on Runyon's 37-year career at Ford, a senior Ford executive told the Economic Club of Detroit in late 1992: "Runyon's strength was that he understood processes and people. He developed a reputation as a straight-shooting, results-oriented manager who never took his eye off his quality objectives or the needs of his employees."
After leaving Ford in 1980 with the rank of Vice President, Body and Assembly Operations, Runyon became President and Chief Executive Officer of Nissan Motor Manufacturing Corporation U.S.A., where he built from the ground up Nissan's first American operations in Smyrna, Tennessee. In 1988, he left Nissan to head the then-troubled TVA in Knoxville, Tennessee. As Chairman of the Board at TVA, Runyon reduced management layers, cut overhead costs by more than 30 percent, and achieved cumulative savings and efficiency improvements of $1.8 billion. TVA's utility rates had increased on average more than 10 percent per year for 20 years.
Runyon stabilized rates, and changed TVA to the point that the
Wall Street Journal
said, "The utility is regarded as one of the most effective of federal agencies."
A U.S. Army Air Corps veteran and Texas A&M Graduate, the Dallas, Texas, native is a member of the Society of International Business Fellows and is active in many civic and professional organizations. He is a member of the Economic Club of Washington. He has served on the board of the Electric Power Research Institute and as an at-large member of the electric utilities' Nuclear Power Oversight Committee.
Runyon was selected to Leadership Nashville, Leadership Knoxville, and Leadership Memphis and has served on the Chamber of Commerce board in each of those Tennessee cities. In addition, he has served on United Way boards in Nashville and Knoxville and as a board member of the Memphis in May International Festival, Inc. He has also chaired the Mid-South Minority Purchasing Council's Minority Market Place trade fair and the Tennessee Economic Partnership's Senior Partner Board. In the three years that Runyon chaired Tennessee's Minority Business Opportunity Fair in Nashville, the fair grew into the largest minority business event of its kind in the nation.
A board member of the Metropolitan Nashville Public Education Foundation, Runyon also serves on the Nucleus Fund Committee and International Programs Resource Development Committee of Texas A&M University.
He has been a board member of the Tennessee Technology Foundation, the Southeast U.S./Japan Association, Knoxville's Downtown Organization, the National Conference of Christians and Jews (NCCJ), United Way of Middle Tennessee, and the Rotary Club of Nashville.
For his career of progressive and successful management, the National Management Association in 1992 honored him with its Gold Knight of Management Award. In 1990, he received the Human Relations Award from the NCCJ Nashville Chapter and the Minority Business Development Agency's Special Recognition Award.
Tennessee-Japan Friends in Commerce presented him with their 1989 Crystal Award, and
The Knoxville Journal
named Runyon "Newsmaker of the Year" in 1988. He also has received the Automotive Hall of Fame's distinguished Service Citation and been named "CEO of the Year" by Nashville's
Advantage
magazine and "Manager of the Year" by a Nashville chapter of the National Management Association.
He resides in Nashville with his wife, Sue Atkinson, who is president of Atkinson Public Relations, Nashville.
REVEREND WILLIAM R. RUNYAN
In 1905 while Rev. Lynch was on a four month leave of absence from the church, Rev. William R. Runyan came to be the pastor. Rev. Runyan was "Conference Evangelist" at the time and was located in Wichita. He was 36 years old. He was well liked for his evangelistic preaching and hymn singing and is said to have "kept the church and its people happy."
Rev. Runyan was born in Marion, New York, January 21, 1870. He attended Garrett Biblical Institute from 1895 to 1897 and started his ministry in 1894 at Leon, Kansas. He was appointed "Conference Evangelist" in 1903, and served as such till 1923 when he retired because of increasing deafness. He had served 34 active years in the ministry.
He was on the editorial staff of Moody Bible Institute from 1926 to 1939. He was the Musical Editor with Hope Publishing Co. from 1944 to 1948. He received an Honorary Degree of L.L.D. from Wheaton College on June 14, 1948. He has published several books of poetry and about three hundred hymns. He and Mrs. Runyan lived with their daughter, Dorothy, at 4303 Caduceus Avenue, Dallas, Texas until his death in 1957
From:
The Twentieth Century Biographical Dictionary of Notable Americans ...   By Rossiter Johnson, Brown, John Howard, 1840-1917, John Howard Brown
RUNYON, Theodore, jurist, was born at Somerville, N.J., Oct. 25, 1822; son of Abraham (1801-1892) and Mary (Runyan) Runyon : grandson of Ephraim (1769-1856) and Elizabeth (Coriell) (1770-1860) Runyon ; great-grandson of John (1743-1792) and Violet (Layton) (1743-1782) Runyon ; great-grandson of Reune (1707-1776) and Rachel (Drake) (1711-1784) Runyon ; great'- grandson of
Vincent
and Mary Ronnion and great-grandson of
Vincent Rongnion,
a Huguenot, who emigrated from Poiters, France, and was married in the Province of New Jersey, July 17, 1668, to Ann, daughter of John Boutcher of Hart- fordshire, England. Theodore Runyon was graduated from Yale in 1843; was admitted to the bar in 1846, and began practice in Newark, N.J. He was city attorney, 1858-56; city counsel, 1856; and in I860 was a presidential elector on the Douglas and Johnson ticket. He was brigadier-general of the state militia, 1857-69; was mustered into the U.S. service as brigadier- general of volunteers in 1861, and assigned to the command of the fourth division of the Army of Northeastern Virginia. His troops built Fort Runyon, but did not leave Washington, D.C. In August, 1861, he resigned his commission; was subsequently brevetted major-general of the state militia, and promoted to that rank in 1869. He was married Jan. 21, 1864, to Clementine, daughter of William D. and Sarah (Ostrander) Bruen of New York. He was elected mayor of Newark, N.J., in 1864, and in 1865 was the unsuccessful Democratic candidate for governor. He was chancellor of New Jersey, 1873-87; practiced law for six years; was appointed U.S. minister to Germany in 1893 to succeed William Walter Phelps ; and was advanced to the position of ambassador extraordinary and minister plenipotentiary in 1894. He received the honorary degree of A.M. from Yale in 1862, and that of LL.D. from Rutgers in 1875, from Wesleyan, 1867, and from Yale, 1883. He died in Berlin, Germany, Jan. 27, I896.
From:
History of Middlesex County, New Jersey, 1664-1920   By John Patrick Wall, Harold E. Pickersgill, Lewis Publishing Company
GEORGE DUNHAM RUNYON, who for nearly two decades has been associated with the "Evening News" of Perth Amboy,
New Jersey,
and is now one of the proprietors of that journal, is a native of the town of
New
Brunswick, and a member of one of the oldest and most widely spread families of the State. The Runyon family was founded here in 1665 by one Vincent Rognion or Runyon, one of the French Huguenots who was obliged to flee the persecutions in his native land after the Revocation of the Edict of Nantes, and settled in Elizabethport,
New Jersey.
He is buried in
Piscataway, New Jersey,
and his descendants are now resident in many parts of the State, many of them occupying positions of prominence and influence in their respective communities.
George Dunham Runyon was born February 7, 1855,
a
son
of John and Amelia (Oram) Runyon, lifelong residents of
New
Brunswick, where the former carried on a business as ship carpenter for many years, and died at the age of sixty-seven. His first wife, Amelia (Oram) Runyon, died when she was but twenty-six years old, and she and her husband were the parents of three children, as follows: George Dunham, with whom we are here especially concerned: Cornelia, deceased; and
John, also deceased. John Runyon married (second) , and they were the parents of seven children, as follows: Amelia, who resides in
New
Brunswick; a child that died in infancy; W. Parker, mentioned atelsewhere in this work; Frank, who resides in
New
Brunswick; John, also of
New
Brunswick; Mary Fannie, who died at the age of twenty-two years; and Theodore, of
New
Brunswick.
The childhood of George Dunham Runyon was passed at his father's home in
New
Brunswick, and he there received his early education, attending local schools for this purpose, and he later entered the Bryant & Stratton Business School of Newark, from which he was graduated with the class of 1873. Upon completing his studies he entered his father's ship repairing yard, and at the age of twenty-two was working at this trade there. Eventually, being of an enterprising character, he came to Perth Amboy and opened a similar establishment of his own, founding with John H. Phillips the Perth Amboy Dry Dock Company, and they met with notable success from the outset. For ten years they continu ' to carry on this enterprise, and then Mr. Runyon entered the lumber business in Perth Amboy, in which for ten years more he was similarly successful. It was in the year 1901 that Mr. Runyon made the vital change that took him from the field of industry and launched him pon his newspaper career in which he has continued ever since. In th' i
year he became associated with the "Evening News," of which he ev tually became one of the three proprietors and of which he is now the treasurer. This paper, under his exceedingly able financial management, has thriven greatly and is now -orie.of the most influential periodicals of Middlesex county and a potent factor in local politics and the fie. of general thought. Mr. Runyon is a Democrat in politics, and has 1 .nself played a prominent part in public affaifs.jn Perth Amboy. He has held a number of elective offices, has been a member of the School Commission, and represented the First Ward on the Board of Aldermen. He is also well known in social and fraternal circles in the city, and has been a member of the Junior Order of American Mechanics for forty years, being one of its charter members, and a member of the local branch of the Young Men's Christian Association for a long period.
George Dunham Runyon was united in marriage, April 29, 1879, ' n
New
Brunswick, with Melvenia Lewis, like himself a native of that city, and a daughter of William and Sarah (Voorhees) Lewis, old and highly respected residents there for many years and now both deceased. Mr. and Mrs. Runyon are the parents of six children, as follows: Lewis Parker, who now resides in Buhl, Idaho, where he is engaged in the grocery business; Cornelia, who died at the age of four and a half years; Harry H., who makes his home at Boise City, where he is established as a successful merchant; Helen, a graduate trained nurse at Boise City, Idaho; Ruth, wife of Charles B. Oakford, Merchantville,
New Jersey ; and Vincent, who saw active service during the World War in France as a member of the I3th Balloon Company. Mr. Runyon and the members of his family are Methodists in their religious belief and those residing in Perth Amboy attend the Simpson Methodist Episcopal Church of that city, of which he has been the treasurer for above thirty-five years.
Orrin Emmet Runyon
From:
A History of the City of Newark, New Jersey
By Frank John Urquhart, Lewis Historical Publishing Company
ORRIN EMMET
RUNYON
Orrin Emmet
Runyon,
one of the most successful real estate men of Newark, New Jersey, was born in Plainfleld, New Jersey, November 17, 18Б6, the son of John Calvin and Harriet M. (Chase)
Runyon.
Although both his parents were of the east, his father having been born in Plainfleld, New Jersey, and his mother being a native of Hamdon, New York, Orrin Emmet
Runyon
spent his youth up to his fourteenth year in the middle west.
In 1856. the year after his birth, his parents removed from Plalnfleld to Springfield, Illinois, the home of Abraham Lincoln, and there during the Civil War, as a member of the firm of Runyon & Brltt, Mr. Runyon, senior, engaged in the business of State printing. In 1868 he returned east with his family and established himself again at Plalnfleld, becoming the proprietor of the "Central New Jersey Times," which he conducted with great success up to the time of his death at Plalnfleld in 1889. Of this large family of eight children which John Calvin Runyon brought back east, Orrln Emmet was the eldest. The others were David M., Elmer Hay, Laura L., a graduate of the University of Chicago, and at present a teacher In the Normal School of Warrensburg, Missouri; Charles W., deputy clerk of Union County, New Jersey; Harry C., a lawyer of Plainfleld, New Jersey; Marion, and Adelaide, the wife of Gerald Oliver, a naval instructor at Chicago.
Orrin Emmet
Runyon
received his early education In the public schools of Springfield, Illinois. This elementary Instruction was supplemented by the work of the Plalnfleld High School, which he attended on his return to his native city, and still later by a course at the Eastman Business College at Poughkeepsle during the years 1874 and 1875. At the age of sixteen, having graduated from the Plalnfleld High School, he entered his father's office and learned the printer's trade—that trade that has served so many distinguished men.
For nine years he worked successfully at the printing business with the exception of the year spent at the business college at Poughkeepsie, and from July, 1877. to the fall of 1879 was the manager of the Job printing office of the firm of F. G. Tllton & Co. at Greenfield, Massachusetts. But in 1880 he withdrew and, removing to Newark, obtained the position of bookkeeper for J. C. Smith & Co., flour and grain merchants, and remained with them for two years. In 1883, realizing that he had an aptitude for the real estate business, and that he could push his fortunes more rapidly by going into business for himself, he resigned his position with the Smith company and bought a half interest in the real estate firm of R. Burgee & Co. of Newark, New Jersey. So successful was he In this venture that by October, 1887, he had acquired Mr. Burgee* interest in the business and became the head of the real estate firm whose affairs he has ever since controlled.
Mr. Runyon's activities have found other outlets than business affords. Inspired no doubt by the example of his two uncles, Nelson and Frank
Runyon,
who were members of one of the New Jersey regiments during the Civil War, and saw much active service, Mr.
Runyon
early displayed a great Interest in the military affairs of his native State. In December, 1884, he joined Company D of the First Regiment of New Jersey, and in 1885 he was elected first lieutenant. In 1898, during the Spanish-American War, he was made captain and was sent with his regiment to Camp Alger, Virginia, and was mustered out November 4, 1898. Mr.
Runyon
Is still the captain of Company D and is the fourth commandant, and is proud of his long association with a company not only distinguished by Its honorable record but as being the oldest one in the State, having been In service since 1846. Mr.
Runyon
was one of the officers detailed to the manœuvre camp at San Antonio, Texas, In May, 1911. While on this duty he was attached to Company I of the Twenty-eighth Infantry. He also interests himself in civic and political affairs, and was judge of the electoral district of the Thirteenth Ward of Newark, New Jersey.
Orrin Emmet
Runyon
married, January 5, 1887, Minnie Dormer, daughter of John Meeker, of Elizabeth, New Jersey. They have five children:
Orrin Emmet, Jr., born October, 1888; John Calvin (2), born In May, 1892; Theodore Clark, born In October, 1897; Milton Chase, born In October, 1899; George Elmer, born In June, 1901.
Edward Stelle Campbell
S/O David Freeman and Susan Runyon (Stelle) Campbell
From:
A History of the City of Newark, New Jersey
By Frank John Urquhart, Lewis Historical Publishing Company
EDWARD STELLE CAMPBELL
The entire active career of Edward Stelle Campbell, late president of the National Newark Banking Company, of Newark, New Jersey, was distinguished by exceptional business ability and sagacity. To his remarkably wise and intelligent direction was mainly due much of the success achieved by that institution. He ever took a keen personal Interest In all of Its operations, guiding Its policies and gaining their accomplishment with shrewd, unerring skill.
Mr. Campbell was born In New Brunswick, New Jersey, January 8, 1854, son of David Freeman and Susan
Runyon
(Stelle) Campbell, and was descended from the famous
Runyon
family of Revolutionary fame, the ancestors of both having come to this country about 1680, from Scotland and France respectively.
Mr. Campbell attended the public schools of New Brunswick, being graduated from the High School in 1868. Two years later he found employment in the National Bank of New Jersey, in New Brunswick. Fourteen years were spent In this institution, where his reliable performance of the duties assigned him and his systematic methods secured him advancement, and, after having shown exceptional executive ability during a very trying period, he was advanced to the post of cashier, which position he capably filled until 1894, at which time he was advanced to the vice-presidency of the institution. This honor came to him unsolicited, and was a spontaneous tribute to his ability and a compliment as highly appreciated as it was unexpected.
The National Newark Banking Corporation is the oldest banking organization in the State of New Jersey, being founded In 1804 by some of Newark's most representative citizens for the purpose of doing a general banking and insurance business, but the Insurance Interests were abandoned many years ago. The Newark City National Bank, which was fifty years old in 1902, was, in May of that year, merged with the National Newark Banking Corporation, and the capital stock was Increased to $1,000,000. This great financial institution at the present time has a surplus and undivided profits of far more than that amount, and Its depositors number about four thousand. Under the presidency of Mr. Campbell the policy of the Institution has been progressive, yet conservative. Especial attention was given to the accounts of the smaller depositors, and no banking house enjoyed greater popularity.
As receiver of the Middlesex County Bank at Perth Amboy, New Jersey, which had been ruined by Its cashier, Mr. Campbell achieved one of his most noted triumphs and demonstrated his unusual executive ability. The claims allowed amounted to $508,000, with offsets of $49,000, and In March, 1900, Mr. Campbell, who had been appointed as permanent receiver by Vice- Chancellor Pitney, paid a dividend of 35 per cent., and in July, 1902, a supplementary dividend of 15 per cent, was paid. By the beginning of 1904 the entire difficulties were practically settled, with the exception of a few outstanding cases which would undoubtedly be settled In favor of the institution and leave a balance In its favor. When Mr. Campbell applied for an Increased allowance In this receivership, Vice-Chancellor Pitney, In an oral opinion sustaining this application, said In part: "Throughout the entire case I cannot find that Mr. Campbell has made a single mistake or has been the least bit slack In his duties, or that he has shown the least deficiency
In 1897 Mr. Campbell was a member of the Indianapolis National Monetary Conference, which exerted such an important influence on the character of the legislation in Congress on the subject in that year. He was president of the Board of Trade of Newark, having been unanimously elected In January, 1903, and his natural aptitude for handling vast Interests was again shown in this office. The commerce of Newark and the adjoining tidewater towns was remarkably benefited by the measures taken by Mr. Campbell and the members of the committee of which he was the leading spirit. He was connected with a number of organizations.
Mr. Campbell was married In 1877 to Elizabeth Mundy, daughter of David Edward and Jane Elizabeth Meeker, of Brooklyn, New York, where Mr. Meeker was a prominent lawyer until his death in November, 1889.
Mr. Campbell died at Lake George, New York, July 2, 1905. Public expressions of sorrow were many and fervent, and the press all over the country gave an unusual amount of space to historical and editorial notices of the sad event. The character of the man Is exemplified In the resolutions adopted by the various corporations and other bodies with which he was connected, a few of which are appended:
By the Board of Trade: Resolved, That the members of this board have learned with sorrow of the sudden death of Edward S. Campbell, one of the most respected and influential members of this body, and formerly Us presiding officer. Coming to us from a neighboring city, he soon impressed himself upon our business community and became a leader In financial affairs. Prank, courteous, forceful, he won the confidence and respect of all those with whom he was associated. He took a deep interest in the affairs of this board, and by his death we have lost one of our most efficient members and one of our wisest counselors. Resolved, That a committee be appointed by the chairman to prepare a suitable minute to be entered upon the records of this board expressive of our sorrow and regret at his untimely death. Resolved, That a copy of these resolutions be sent by the secretary of this board to the widow of our deceased brother, to whom we respectfully tendor our sympathy In her bereavement.
By the Board of Directors of the National Newark Banking Company: This board wishes to record on its minutes Its sense of loss In the death of Edward S. Campbell, president of this bank, which occurred at Lake George, New York, on the 2nd inst., after a brief illness. Mr. Campbell was elected a member of this board, and vice-president of this bank, January 4, 1894, and after its consolidation with the Newark City National Bank in May, 1902, he became presiaent of the enlarged institution. He came to the service of this bank fully equipped by a strong and active youth as a banker, and qualified by a natural disposition and a finely developed character, he at once Impressed his personality upon not only the directors, but on the customers of the bank and the community at large. Few men have, in the short time of his connection with Newark affairs, gained a more enviable position or implanted themselves more firmly than he did in all that is best in business, in civic and in religious matters. His death deprives many Interests of a potent factor for good, and his associates and friends of a strong and loving character. We wish to convey to his bereaved wife our most tender condolences, and direct that a copy of this minute be engrossed and sent to her, and that it be entered upon the records of this bank and published in the daily papers of Newark.
By the Executive Committee of the New Jersey Bankers' Association: Whereas, It has pleased Almighty God in His infinite -wisdom to remove from us by death our esteemed president and friend, Edward S. Campbell, who not only served this association ably and faithfully as president, but also assisted materially in its organization; Be it Resolved, That in the death of Mr. Campbell we have lost a most able executive, a genial and true friend and one who was held in the highest esteem by us all. We desire to permanently record our appreciation of his most estimable character, sterling worth, vigorous and attractive personality. Resolved, That we extend to his bereaved family our most sincere sympathy in this hour of great bereavement. Resolved, That a copy of these preamble and resolutions be suitably engrossed and presented to Mrs. Campbell.
By the Board of Managers of the Howard Savings Institution: The managers of the Howard Savings Institution desire to express their sense of loss in the death of Edward S. Campbell, and to record this tribute to his memory. Mr. Campbell was elected a member of this board on August 29, 1904, appointed soon after a member of the auditing committee, and has attended to his duties promptly and regularly since that time. He was a genial associate, and a man who, by reason of his ability and character, added strength to the board and rendered efficient service to the institution. He was a public-spirited citizen and a Christian of the highest character, and his belief was exemplified by his dally life. In his sudden death the institution suffers a loss which can best be appreciated by those in the management of financial institutions who know the value of thoughtful and wise counsellors from the ranks of successful and self-reliant business men. We offer our sincere sympathy to his wife and rejoice with her in the memory of a life so well spent. Resolved, That this minute be spread upon the records of the institution and that an engrossed copy be furnished his bereaved family.
Mr. Campbell was an active and influential figure in the life of the community, especially In connection with those institutions most closely affecting its moral welfare. He was particularly interested in the Young Men's Christian Association, of Newark, was exceedingly liberal in Its support, and his personal influence was a continual inspiration to It in its beneficent work. He was also a member of the New Brunswick Association, having been its treasurer for eight years, and its president for three years. He was also a member of the Essex Club, of Newark. His death while he was yet in the prime of his mental powers, left a void not to be filled, but the example of his life remains as a tender memory and a life-long inspiration to all with whom he associated.
Robert Runyon
From: http://www.tshaonline.org/handbook/online/articles/RR/fru37.html
RUNYON, ROBERT
(1881-1968). Robert Runyon, botanist and photographer, was born on July 28, 1881, in Catlettsburg, Kentucky, the second of six children born to Floyd and Elizabeth (Lawson) Runyon. No record of Runyon's education has been found, although it seems likely that he attended grammar school and possibly high school as well. Runyon married Nora Young on September 16, 1901, in Ironton, Ohio, and they had one son. Nora Runyon died in Catlettsburg in December 1908. The following year Runyon and his son moved to Brownsville, where Runyon married Amelia Lenor Medrano, daughter of a prominent Matamoros family, on July 4, 1913; they had three daughters and two sons. Runyon initially managed a newsstand and curio store in the train station but in 1910 opened a photography studio. He subsequently produced a significant body of photographs documenting the history of the Rio Grande valley qv
during the Mexican Revolution. qv
Runyon's photographs provided unique visual documentation of revolutionary conflict in northeastern Mexico between 1913 and 1916. On June 4, 1913, he traveled to Matamoros the day after its Federal garrison had been captured by Gen. Lucio Blanco's Constitutionalist revolutionary forces. There Runyon photographed the wounded and the dead, buildings that had been destroyed, and political executions. Later he recorded the August 1913 ceremony at Los Borregos in which General Blanco turned over captured land to the peasants who worked there. With the help of his brother-in-law, José C. Medrano, a member of Blanco's forces, Runyon obtained permission to accompany rebel troops on the fall 1913 campaign against Ciudad Victoria and, in 1914, on an attack on Monterrey. Runyon was the only professional photographer to record two 1915 raids across the United States border: the Norias Ranch raid qv
and the train wreck near Olmito, forays which some historians have linked with revolutionary forces. A number of Runyon's images were used on widely distributed postcards that contributed to a stereotypical view of Mexicans and their culture. His photographs were used by Texas newspapers and national publications such as the
New York Times
and
Leslie's Weekly , although many remained unpublished.
Runyon also documented the buildup of United States military forces at Fort Brown, Brownsville, with more than 2,000 images. Fort Brown was reactivated by the United States War Department in 1913 to quell border unrest and continued to be manned after the United States entered World War I. qv
Runyon's images of daily camp life and special festivities such as polo tournaments, banquets, and horse shows form a striking contrast to his photographs of the brutal war in Mexico. Other images of historical interest include aerial views of the camp taken from wireless towers, photographs of Gen. John J. Pershing, qv
who commanded the troops stationed at the border, and images of early warplanes and armored cars. Runyon's commercial portraits of individuals, businesses, school groups, sports teams, and street scenes provide an important, if less dramatic, document of urban life in Matamoros and Brownsville during a period of rapid development in the Rio Grande valley. Many of his photographs were used to promote tourism qv
in the area. Runyon also photographed regional plants. An accomplished botanist, he compiled one of the largest and best private herbaria qv
in Texas and discovered several species of plants. A number of these bear his name, including three types of cactus, a grass that grows on sand dunes, and a tree that bears an orange-like fruit. Runyon coauthored
Texas Cacti: A Popular and Scientific Account of the Cacti Native of Texas
(1930) with Ellen D. Schulz Quillin qv
and wrote
Vernacular Names of Plants Indigenous to the Lower Rio Grande Valley of Texas
(1947); both books were illustrated with Runyon's photographs .
He was preparing a third volume,
An Annotated List of the Flora of the Lower Rio Grande Valley , at the time of his death. Runyon participated in a number of botanical societies, including the Texas Academy of Science, qv
the Botanical Society of America, the Torry Botanical Club, the American Society of Plant Taxonomists, the International Association for Plant Taxonomy, and the Phi Sigma Society, a biological fraternity at the University of Texas. He also was a charter member of the Cactus and Succulent Society of America, for which he served as regional vice president (1942) and fellow (1945).
In 1926 Runyon closed his photographic studio and joined his brother-in-law, José Medrano, in running a store in Matamoros, Mexico. He bought out Medrano three years later and continued to operate the store until 1938. During this period he also established a curio and gift store in Brownsville. Runyon's career as a civic leader commenced in 1937, when he was appointed city manager of Brownsville, a post he held for more than two years. On November 4, 1941, he was elected mayor of Brownsville for a two-year term, during which time he successfully revamped the city's budget. For his distinguished service as city manager and mayor, Runyon was appointed aide-de-camp on Kentucky Governor Earl C. Clements's staff in 1949 and given the rank and grade of colonel. During World War II qv
Runyon served as municipal defense coordinator for Brownsville and was awarded a Certificate of Merit for Distinguished Service from the Navy League of the United States of America. As a member of the park board from 1946 to 1949, he worked to conserve some of the lush plant life in the city, and was subsequently awarded a certificate of merit by Mayor H. L. Stokely in 1957. Runyon served as chairman of the Cameron County Democratic Executive Committee from 1950 to 1952, and in 1952 he unsuccessfully ran for the Texas House of Representatives. From 1959 to 1961 he served, first as a member and later as chairman, on the Brownsville Planning and Zoning Board. In addition to his activities as a merchant, photographer, botanist, and politician, Runyon cultivated an interest in genealogy that led to three publications:
Genealogy of the Descendents of Anthony Lawson of Northumberland, England
(1952);
Runyon Genealogy
(1955), coauthored with his cousin Amos Runyon; and
Supplement to Runyon Genealogy
(1962). Runyon was a member of the National Genealogical Society of Washington, D.C., and the Genealogical Society of New Jersey. He also was a member of the national and Texas societies of the Sons of the American Revolution.
Runyon died on March 9, 1968, and was buried at Buena Vista Cemetery. His herbarium, containing more than 8,750 specimens at the time of his death, was donated to the University of Texas at Austin, and his collection of 1,000 botanical volumes was donated to Texas A&I University at Kingsville. In 1986 Runyon's family donated his photographic collection and business files to the Barker Texas History Center qv
at the University of Texas at Austin. The center subsequently received a grant from the National Historical Publications and Records Commission, part of the National Archives, to preserve and index the collection, which consists of approximately 14,000 items in a variety of formats, including glass-plate negatives, prints, postcards, film negatives and lantern slides. Significant collections of Runyon's photographs are also housed in the Brownsville Historical Association and the Hidalgo County Historical Museum, both in the Rio Grande valley. Smaller collections of his work are housed at the University of Texas Institute of Texan Cultures, qv
San Antonio; the Special Collections of the Library of the University of Texas of the Permian Basin, Odessa; and the Central Power and Light Company, Corpus Christi. In 1989 the Barker Texas History Center organized an exhibition of Runyon's photographs, "La Tierra y Su Gente (The Land and its People): The Rio Grande Photographs of Robert Runyon, 1910-1926."
BIBLIOGRAPHY: Brownsville
Herald , June 30, 1968. Joe Ideker, "Robert Runyon, Pioneer Lower Rio Grande Valley Botanist,
The Sabal , December 1988. Robert Runyon Photograph Collection, Barker Texas History Center, University of Texas at Austin. F. N. Samponaro and P. L. Vanderwood,
War Scare on the Rio Grande
(Austin: Texas State Historical Association, 1992). Vertical Files, Barker Texas History Center, University of Texas at Austin.
Joe Ideker and Kendall Curlee
Damon Runyon
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Damon_Runyon
Damon Runyon was born under the name
Alfred Damon Runyan
to a family of newspapermen in
Manhattan ,
Kansas . His grandfather was a newspaper printer from
New Jersey
who had relocated to Manhattan in 1855, and his father was editor of his own newspaper in the town. In 1882 Runyon's father was forced to sell his newspaper, and the family moved westward. The family eventually settled in
Pueblo, Colorado , in 1887, and this was where Runyon spent the rest of his youth. He also began to work in the newspaper trade under his father in Pueblo. In Pueblo, Runyon Field, The Damon Runyon Repertory Theater Company and Runyon Lake are now named in his honor. He worked for various newspapers in the
Rocky Mountain
area; at one of those, the spelling of his last name was changed from "Runyan" to "Runyon," a change he let stand.
In 1898 Runyon enlisted in the U.S. Army to fight in the
Spanish-American War . While in the service, he was assigned to write for the
Manila Freedom
and
Soldier's Letter .
New York years
After a notable failure in trying to organize a
Colorado
minor baseball league , Runyon moved to
New York City
in 1910. For the next ten years he covered the
New York Giants
and professional
boxing
for the
New York American . In his first New York byline, the
American
editor dropped the "Alfred," and the name "Damon Runyon" appeared for the first time.
A heavy drinker as a young man, he seems to have quit the bottle soon after arriving in New York, after his drinking nearly cost him the courtship of the woman who became his first wife, Ellen Egan. He remained a heavy smoker.
His best friend was
mobster
accountant
Otto Berman , and he incorporated Berman into several of his stories under the alias "Regret, the horse player." When Berman was killed in a hit on Berman's boss,
Dutch Schultz , Runyon quickly assumed the role of
damage control
for his deceased friend, correcting erroneous press releases (including one that stated Berman was one of Schultz's gunmen, to which Runyon replied, "Otto would have been as effective a bodyguard as a two-year-old.")
Runyon frequently contributed sports poems to the
American
on boxing and baseball themes, and also wrote numerous short stories and essays. He was the Hearst newspapers' baseball columnist for many years, beginning in 1911, and his knack for spotting the eccentric and the unusual, on the field or in the stands, is credited with revolutionizing the way baseball was covered. Perhaps as confirmation, Runyon was inducted into the writers' wing (the
J. G. Taylor Spink Award ) of the
Baseball Hall of Fame
in 1967. He is also a member of the
International Boxing Hall Of Fame
and is known for dubbing heavyweight champion
James J. Braddock , the " Cinderella Man ."
Gambling
was a common theme of Runyon's works, and he was a notorious gambler himself. A well-known saying of his paraphrases
Ecclesiastes : "The race is not always to the swift, nor the battle to the strong, but that's the way to bet."
The family plot of Damon Runyon in
Woodlawn Cemetery
Runyon's marriage to Ellen Egan produced two children (Mary and Damon, Jr.), and broke up in 1928 over rumors that Runyon had become infatuated with a Mexican girl he had first met while covering the
Pancho Villa
raids in 1916 and discovered once again in New York, when she called the
American
seeking him out. Runyon had promised her in Mexico that, if she would complete the education he paid for her, he would find her a dancing job in New York. Her name was Patrice Amati del Grande, and she became his companion after he separated from his wife. After Ellen Runyon died of the effects of her own drinking problems, Runyon and Patrice married. Though Runyon forged a better relationship with his children, the marriage ended when Patrice left him for a younger man in the same year he died (1946).
He died in
New York City
from
throat cancer
in 1946, at age 66. His body was cremated, and his ashes were scattered from an airplane over Broadway in
Manhattan
by Captain
Eddie Rickenbacker
on
December 18 ,
1946 . The family plot of Damon Runyon is located at
Woodlawn Cemetery
in
Bronx ,
NY .
From:
HISTORY
OF
MIDDLESEX COUNTY
NEW JERSEY
1664=1920
UNDER THE ASSOCIATE EDITORSHIP
OF
JOHN P. WALL AND HAROLD E. PICKERSGILL
ASSISTED BY AN
Able Corps of Local Historians
HISTORICAL=BIOGRAPHICAL
Volume II
I 92 I
LEWIS HISTORICAL PUBLISHING COMPANY, INC.
NEW YORK AND CHICAGO
Page 124-127
Walter Parker Runyon
WALTER PARKER RUNYON.— It is the fate of the cities of New
Jersey, fortunate or otherwise, that the gigantic size and financial impor-
tance of their great neighbor in the adjacent State inevitably over-
shadows them and gives to them something of the character of suburbs,
yet a number of them contain industrial interests equal or superior to
those that have given a national prominence to other communities some-
what further removed from the metropolitan giant of the New World.
Several concerns located in one or the other of these busy and prosper-
ous cities, have arisen to such size and importance as to emerge from the
general class of local enterprises into a more individual distinction, and
have become, either from their mere dimensions or because of their re-
sponse to the particular needs of the time, the subjects of a wider and
more univeral attention. More than one such concern is to be found in
the city of Perth Amboy and of these, perhaps the most notable, is the
Perth Amboy Dry Dock Company, the present importance of which is
largely the result of the practical genius of Walter Parker
Runyon,
whose
qualities as a business man and citizen have won him the respect and
admiration of his associates and the community-at-large.
Walter Parker Runyon is a member of one of the oldest families of
New Jersey which has played a conspicuous part in its affairs for a num-
ber of generations, and comes of French Huguenot stock, which has con-
tributed one of the most substantial and capable elements to the citizen-
ship of the country. The family was founded in the New World by Vin-
cent Rognion, who left his native land to search for the religious and
political freedom denied the Huguenots in France after the Revocation
of the Edict of Nantes. This Vincent Rognion settled in the vicinity of
New Brunswick, New Jersey, and from him is sprung the numerous
family which has made the name in its anglicized form so generally
known in the State and elsewhere. One of his descendants, another Vin-
cent
Runyon,
as the name had then come to be spelled, was the grand-
father of Walter P.
Runyon,
and the founder of the business that has
since grown to such importance. He was assisted in his venture by his
son, John
Runyon,
who afterwards carried it on, and who married Anne
Beck, of New Brunswick. They were the parents of Walter Parker Run-
yon.
Walter P. Runyon was born in New Brunswick, New Jersey, Decem-
ber 3, 1861, and his childhood was passed in his native city. As a lad he
attended the public schools of New Brunswick, and later the Rutgers
Preparatory School, from which he was graduated in 1878. During his
school days he had spent much of his time in the old shipyard founded
by his grandfather, and as he grew to man's estate became ambitious of
a business career, so that upon completing his general studies he entered
the New Jersey Business College in order to prepare himself. He was
graduated from the lastnamed institution in 1880, and promptly secured
a clerical position with the firm of Fairbanks, Martin & Company, woolen
commission merchants, of New York City. Four years were spent by
him in the employ of this concern, during which time he became thor-
oughly familiar with general business methods and further fitted himself
for the part he was to play in the business world. The two years follow-
ing found him with the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company of New
York, but his ambition ever urged him to become independent, and
accordingly he severed his connection with that enormous institution and
entered into partnership with the firm of Vliet & Dalmer, manufacturing
clothiers of his native New Brunswick. It was during this time that he
first became associated with Charles D. Snedeker, who has since con-
tinued his partner in the great enterprises that he has headed. These two gentlemen were instrumental in organizing a new company which
absorbed the old firm of Vliet & Dalmer soon after his connection with
it, and which met with a high degree of success from the outset. It thus
became possible, in 1894, for Mr. Runyon and Mr. Snedeker to purchase
the interest of the John Runyon estate in the Perth Amboy Dry Dock
Company, and shortly afterwards a close corporation was formed with
Mr. Runyon at the head, which took over the entire stock of the old con-
cern. The Perth Amboy Dry Dock Company was at that time a com-
paratively small business, but since then it has steadily grown under the
capable management of Mr. Runyon to its present position of promi-
nence. The yard and its equipment have been continually increased to
keep pace with the growing business and now possesses five balance dry
docks of 10,000, 2,500, 2,000, 1,000 and 500 tons capacity, respectively.
These are equipped with patent adjustable keel blocks, while a twenty-
five ton derrick is in operation to lift and transport the heavy steel struc-
tural work in use in marine construction. All needed supplies are kept
constantly on hand, and the great water frontage of more than a thou-
sand feet, extending over four blocks, affords ample pier space for new
vessels and those seeking repairs. Machine shops of the most modern
tyf>e are maintained, and the large boiler works are in constant operation.
This great enterprise is still undergoing a steady expansion and is already
one of the best known of its kind along the Atlantic coast. Mr. Runyon
is president of the concern, and Mr. Snedeker its treasurer.
In addition to his own great business, Mr. Runyon is associated with
many other financial and business interests of this region and is vice-
president of the Raritan Trust Company and a director of the New Bruns-
wick Fire Insurance Company, New Brunswick, New Jersey, and the
Perth Amboy Trust Company, of Perth Amboy. His activities extend
into other fields besides business and connect him with many depart-
ments of the communities affairs, and he is a member of many important
organizations and clubs here and elsewhere. He is vice-president of the
Perth Amboy Hospital Association, and a member of the National Secur-
ity League, the New Jersey Historical Society, the United States Cham-
ber of Commerce, the Maritime Association of the Port of New York,
the Manufacturers' Association, the Perth Amboy Chamber of Com-
merce, the Young Men's Christian Association of Perth Amboy, of which
he is also a trustee ; vice-president of the Raritan Terminal and Water-
ways Association, and member of the Society of Naval Architects and
Marine Engineers. He is prominent in social, club and fraternal circles,
and is a member of the Royal Arcanum, the Benevolent and Protective
Order of Elks, the Lake Placid Club, the East Jersey Club, the Raritan
Yacht Club, and the Union Club of New Brunswick. He is a life mem-
ber of the National Marine League of the United States of America, and
a member of its board of trustees. Mr. Runyon has always taken keen
pleasure in outdoor life of all kinds, and at present spends his leisure
time at the Lake Placid Club in the Adirondack Mountains and motors
a great deal through that picturesque region. He is also fond of moun-
tain climbing and fishing and engages in these sports to a considerable
extent.  The participation of Mr. Runyon in public affairs in his home region
has been notable, and he is one of the most influential members of the
Democratic party in the State. He has served as a member of the Demo-
cratic executive committee of "New Brunswick and the Democratic execu-
tive committee of Middlesex county. He was alternate delegate to the
National Democratic Convention in 1908, and delegate to the party con-
vention four years later, and has served on numerous State conventions
during the past. Mr. Runyon has also served the community in several
official capacities, and as a member of the New Brunswick Water Board
and the Perth Amboy Water Department Commission was instrumental
in developing the fine water supply now enjoyed by both cities. In 1913
he was appointed by Governor Fielder, of New Jersey, a member of the
New Jersey State Harbor Commission, and the following year, when the
Board of Commerce and Navigation succeeded to the older body, became
a member thereof. His services on these bodies was of such value that
when Governor Edge was elected he reappointed him. Mr. Runyon has
also represented New Jersey for some years at the annual meetings of the
Atlantic Deeper Waterways Conventions. In 1916 he was the president
of the New Jersey Wilson Business Men's League.
Walter Parker Runyon was united in marriage, January 10, 1895,
with Katherine Engle Hancock, a daughter of the Rev. Ezekiel Cooper
and Emma Jean (Githens) Hancock, of Burlington county, New Jersey.
Mrs. Runyon's death occurred on Christmas Day, December 25, 1919.
Two children were born to Mr. and Mrs.
Runyon,
as follows : Cooper
Hancock, born September 3, 1896, died October 26, 1919; and Walter
Parker, Jr.
New Jersey Governor William Nelson Runyon
Born:   March 5, 1871 Died:   November 9, 1931 Birth State:   New Jersey Party:   Republican Family:   Married Florence M. MacDonald; four children Religion:   Episcopalian School(s):   Yale University, New York Law School
Periods in Office:
From:
May 16, 1919
To:
January 13, 1920 Succeeded
State Web Site
William N. Runyon, the forty-eighth governor of New Jersey, was born in Plainfield, New Jersey on March 5, 1871. His education was attained at Yale University, where he graduated in 1892, and at New York Law School, where he earned an LL.B. degree in 1894. Runyon first entered politics as a member of the Plainfield Common Council, a position he held from 1897 to 1898. He also served as city judge of Plainfield from 1899 to 1910; was a member of the New Jersey House of Representatives from 1915 to 1917; and served as a member and president of the New Jersey State Senate from 1918 to 1922. On May 16, 1919 Governor Walter E. Edge resigned from office, and Runyon, who was president of the senate at the time, assumed the duties of the governorship. He served in this capacity until January 13, 1920. After making an unsuccessful bid for the governor's office in 1922, Runyon secured an appointment to serve on the U.S. District Court bench, a position he held from 1923 to 1931. Governor William N. Runyon passed away on November 9, 1931, and was buried in the Hillside Cemetery in Plainfield, New Jersey.
Sources:
Sobel, Robert, and John Raimo, eds.
Biographical Directory of the Governors of the United States, 1789-1978,
Vol. 3, Westport, Conn.; Meckler Books, 1978. 4 vols.
Biographies Page 2
Subpages
(1):
Biographies Page 2
Sign in | Recent Site Activity | Report Abuse | Print Page | Powered By
Google Sites