Woody Allen information
Information on Woody Allen
1.
Цитаты Вуди Аллена
On religious beliefs:
I don't believe in an afterlife, although I am bringing a change of
underwear.
How can I believe in God when just last week I got my tongue caught in the
roller of an electric typewriter?
On sex and love:
I want to tell you a terrific story about oral contraception. I asked this
girl to sleep with me and she said "no."
On working:
I think crime pays. The hours are good, you travel a lot.
Not only is there no God, but try getting a plumber on weekends.
Eighty percent of success is showing up.
On humanity:
Death is an acquired trait.
It's not that I'm afraid to die. I just don't want to be there when it
happens.
The thing to remember is that each time of life has its appropriate
rewards, whereas when you're dead it's hard to find the light switch.
I don't want to achieve immortality through my work...I want to achieve it
through not dying.
Money is better than poverty, if only for financial reasons.
And my parents finally realize that I'm kidnapped and they snap into action
immediately: they rent out my room.
More than any other time in history, mankind faces a crossroads. One path
leads to despair and utter hopelessness. The other, to total extinction. Let
us pray we have the wisdom to choose correctly.
The lion and the calf shall lie down together but the calf won't get much
sleep.
On art:
I don't watch funny movies. I watch Ingmar Bergman. He's concerned with the
silence of God and in some small way, so am I.
I've never made a film that could remotely be considered a masterpiece.
I can't listen to that much Wagner. I start getting the urge to conquer
Poland.
I'm short enough and ugly enough to succeed on my own.
2.
Information from "Wikipedia"
[ edit ]
Early years
Allen was born in
New
York City
to a
Jewish
family; his grandparents were
Yiddish
and
German -speaking immigrants. [2]
His parents, Martin Königsberg (born on
December 25 ,
1900
in
New York ;
died on
January 13 ,
2001 )
and Nettea Cherrie (born in 1908 in
New York ;
died in January 2002), and his sister, Letty (born 1943), lived in
Flatbush ,
Brooklyn ;
his parents were both born and raised on the
Lower East Side
of
Manhattan . [2]
His mother worked as a bookkeeper at her family's business. [2]
Allen spoke German during his early years and attended
Hebrew school
for eight years, and then went to Public School 99 and to
Midwood High School . During that time, he lived in part on Avenue K,
between East 14th and 15th Streets. Nicknamed "Red" because of his red hair,
he impressed students with his extraordinary talent at card and magic tricks. [3]
To raise money he began writing
gags
for the
agent
David O. Alber , who sold them to newspaper columnists. According to Allen,
his first published joke "was in a gossip column. It read: 'Woody Allen says
he ate at a restaurant that had O.P.S. prices—over people's salaries.'" [4]
At sixteen, he started writing for stars like
Sid
Caesar
and began calling himself
Woody Allen , which would remain
his moniker (although it's unclear if Allen ever legally adopted the stage
name). He was a gifted comedian from an early age and would later joke that
when he was young he was often sent to inter-faith summer camps, where he "was
savagely beaten by children of all races and creeds". [3]
After high school, he went to
New York University
where he studied communication and film, but, never
committed as a student, he was thrown off his course [5]
due to lack of punctuality and commitment. He later briefly attended
City College of New York .
[ edit ]
Comedy writer and playwright
After his false starts at NYU and City College, he became a full-time
writer for
Herb
Shriner , earning $75/week at first. [4] At
age 19, he started writing scripts for
The Ed Sullivan Show ,
The Tonight Show ,
Caesar's Hour
and other television shows. [6]
By the time he was working for
Sid
Caesar , he was making $1500/week [4] ;
with Ceasar he worked alongside
Danny
Simon , whom Allen credits [ citation
needed ]
for helping him to structure his writing style.
In 1961, he started a new career as a
stand-up comedian , debuting in a
Greenwich Village
club called the Duplex. [4]
He contributed sketches to the Broadway
revue
From A
to Z , and began writing for the popular
Candid Camera
television show, even appearing in some episodes.
Together with his managers, Allen turned his weaknesses into his strengths,
developing his neurotic, nervous, and intellectual persona. He quickly became
a successful comedian, and appeared frequently in nightclubs and on
television. Allen was popular enough to appear on the cover of
Life
in 1969 when
Play It Again, Sam
opened on Broadway.
Allen started writing short stories for magazines (most notably, the
The New Yorker ) as well as plays, the best known of which are the
Broadway
productions
Don't Drink the Water
(1966) and
Play It Again, Sam
(1969). [7]
Examples of Allen's standup act can be heard on the albums
Standup Comic
and
Nightclub Years 1964-1968.
Film career
Woody Allen has an extensive filmography, available in its entirety
at
List of Woody Allen films . The remainder of this section includes most
of its highlights.
[ edit ]
Early films
His first movie production was
What's New, Pussycat?
in
1965 ,
for which he wrote the initial screenplay.
Allen's first directorial effort was
What's Up, Tiger Lily?
( 1966 ),
in which an existing
Japanese
spy
movie was redubbed in
English
by Allen and his friends with completely new, comic dialogue. In
1967 ,
he also appeared in the offbeat
James
Bond
spoof,
Casino Royale .
[ edit ]
1960s and 1970s
His first conventional effort was
Take The Money and Run
( 1969 ),
which was followed by
Bananas ,
Everything You Always Wanted To Know About Sex (But Were Afraid to Ask) ,
Sleeper , and
Love and Death .
In
1972 , he
also starred in the film version of
Play It Again, Sam , which was directed by
Herbert Ross . All of Allen's early films were pure comedies that relied
heavily on
slapstick , inventive
sight
gags , and non-stop
one-liners .
Among the many notable influences on these films are
Bob Hope ,
Groucho Marx
and
Humphrey Bogart . In
1976 ,
he starred in, but did not direct,
The Front
(that task was handled by
Martin
Ritt ), a humorous and poignant account of
Hollywood
blacklisting
during the
1950s .
Allen's most successful movies were produced in a 10-year period starting
with
Annie Hall .
Other critical and financial successes included
Manhattan ,
The Purple Rose of Cairo
and
Hannah and Her Sisters
(winner of three
Academy Awards ).
Purple Rose
was named by
Time Magazine
as one of the 100 best films of all time, and Allen has
described it as one of his three best films, along with
Stardust Memories
and
Match
Point . [8]
Annie Hall
marked a major turn to more sophisticated
humor
and
thoughtful drama. Allen's
1977
film
won four Academy Awards, including Best Picture.
Annie Hall
set the standard for modern romantic comedy, and also started a minor fashion
trend with the unique clothes worn by
Diane
Keaton
in the film (the offbeat, masculine clothing, such as ties with
cardigans, was actually Keaton's own).
Manhattan
is regarded by many critics to be Allen's best work [ citation
needed ] . The black and white film can be viewed as an
homage to New York City, which has been described as the true "main character"
of the movie. As in many other Allen films, the main characters are upper
class academics, literati, and occasional twits. Even though it makes fun of
pretentious intellectuals, the story is packed with obscure references that
makes it less accessible to a general audience. The love-hate opinion of
cerebral persons found in Manhattan is characteristic of many of Allen's
movies including
Crimes and Misdemeanors
and
Annie
Hall .
Between
Annie Hall
and
Manhattan,
Allen wrote and directed
the gloomy drama
Interiors ,
in the style of the
Swedish
director
Ingmar Bergman , one of Allen's major influences.
[ edit ]
1980s
Allen's 1980s films, even the comedies, have somber and philosophical
undertones. Some, like
September
and
Stardust Memories , are often said to be heavily influenced by the
works of European directors, most notably Ingmar Bergman and
Federico Fellini . [ citation
needed ]
Stardust Memories
features a main character, a successful filmmaker
played by Allen, who expresses resentment and scorn for his fans. Overcome by
the recent death of a friend from illness, the character states, "I don't want
to make funny movies any more," and a running gag throughout the film has
various people (including a group of visiting space aliens) telling Bates that
they appreciate his work, "especially the early, funny ones". [9]
However, by the mid-1980s, Allen had begun to combine tragic and comic
elements with the release of such films as
Hannah and Her Sisters , one of his most awarded movies starring
British actor
Michael Caine , and
Crimes and Misdemeanors , in which he tells two different stories that
connect at the end. He also produced a vividly idiosyncratic tragi-comical
parody of documentary, titled
Zelig .
He also made three films about show business. The first movie is
Broadway Danny Rose , in which he plays a Hollywood manager; then,
The Purple Rose of Cairo , a movie that shows the importance of the
cinema during the Depression though the character of the naive Cecilia.
Lastly, Allen made
Radio
Days , which is a film about the radio business and how its crew became
rich and famous.
Before the end of the eighties he made other movies that were strongly
inspired by
Ingmar Bergman 's films.
September
is a remake of
Autumn Sonata , and Allen uses many elements from
Persona [ citation
needed ]
in
Another Woman .
[ edit ]
1990s
His 1992 film
Shadows and Fog
is a black and white homage to
German expressionists
and features the music of
Kurt
Weill . His 1993 film
Manhattan Murder Mystery
combined suspense with dark comedy, and
starred
Diane
Keaton ,
Alan Alda
and
Anjelica Huston .
In the late 1990s he returned to lighter movies, such as
Bullets Over Broadway ,
which earned him an Academy Award nomination
for Best Director. The musical
Everyone Says I Love You
was Allen's first musical. The singing and
dancing scenes in
Everyone Says I Love You
are similar to the musical
starring
Fred
Astaire
and
Ginger Rogers , but the plot is comical. The comedy
Mighty Aphrodite , in which the Greek and Roman tragedies play a large
role, won an
Academy Award
for
Mira
Sorvino . Allen's 1999 jazz
mockumentary
Sweet and Lowdown
also won an Academy Award nomination for Samantha
Morton's role. In contrast to these lighter movies, Allen veered scathingly
dark and satirical towards the end of the 1990's with
Deconstructing Harry ' (1997) and ' Celebrity
(film) ' (1998). Both of these films are considered by many as some of his
most mature and honest work.
Allen made his only
sitcom
"appearance" via telephone in the 1997 episode, "My Dinner with Woody" of the
show
Just Shoot Me! , an episode paying tribute to several of his films.
[ edit ]
2000s
Small Time Crooks
(2000) was his first film with
DreamWorks SKG
studio and represented a change in direction: Allen began
giving more interviews and made an apparent return to his strictly comedy
roots.
Small Time Crooks
was a relative success, grossing over $17
million domestically, but Allen's next 4 films foundered at the box office,
including Allen's most expensive film to date,
The Curse of the Jade Scorpion
(with a budget of $33 million).
Hollywood Ending ,
Anything Else , and
Melinda and Melinda
were given "rotten" ratings [10]
from film-review website
Rotten Tomatoes
and each earned less than $5 million domestically. Most
critics agreed that Allen's films since 1999's
Sweet and Lowdown
were
subpar, and some critics expressed concern that Allen's best years were now
behind him. [11]
Match Point
(2005) was one of Allen's most successful films in the
past ten years and generally received very positive reviews. Set in
London , it
starred
Jonathan Rhys-Meyers
and
Scarlett Johansson . It is also markedly darker than Allen's first four
films under the DreamWorks SKG banner.
Match Point
earned more than $23
million domestically (more than any of his films in nearly 20 years) [12]
and earned over $62 million in international box office. [13]
Match Point
earned Allen his first Academy Award nomination since 1998
for Best Writing, Original Screenplay and directing and writing nominations at
the Golden Globes, his first Globe nominations since 1987. In an interview
with
Premiere Magazine , Allen stated this was the best film he has ever
made.
Allen returned to London to film
Scoop , which also starred Johansson, as well as
Hugh
Jackman ,
Ian
McShane ,
Kevin McNally . The film was released on July 28, 2006, and received mixed
reviews. He is currently filming
Cassandra's Dream
in London as well. This reportedly stars
Colin Farrell ,
Ewan McGregor , and
Tom Wilkinson . After finishing his third London film, Allen is expected to
head to
Spain .
He has reached an agreement to film a future project in
Barcelona
by early 2007. The movie will star international and Spanish actors actresses,
including Penélope Cruz. [14] [15]
Allen has said that he "survives" on the European market. Audiences there
have tended to be more receptive to Allen's films, particularly
France , a
country where he has a large fan base (something joked about in
Hollywood
Ending ). "In the United States things have changed a lot, and it's hard to
make good small films now," Allen said in a 2004 interview. "The avaricious
studios couldn't care less about good films - if they get a good film they're
twice as happy, but money-making films are their goal. They only want these
$100 million pictures that make $500 million". [16]
[ edit ]
Relationships
[ edit ]
Harlene Rosen
At age 19, Allen married 16-year-old Harlene Rosen. [4]
The marriage lasted five "nettling, unsettling years." [4]
Rosen, whom Allen referred to in his standup act as "the Dread Mrs. Allen,"
later
sued
Allen for
defamation
due to comments at a TV appearance shortly after their divorce.
Allen tells a different story on his mid-1960s standup album
Standup Comic .
In his act, Allen said that Rosen sued him because of a joke he made in an
interview. Rosen had been
sexually assaulted
outside her apartment, and according to Allen, the newspapers reported that
she "had been violated." In the interview, Allen said, "Knowing my ex-wife, it
probably wasn't a
moving violation ." In a later interview on
The Dick Cavett Show , Allen brought the incident up again where he
repeated his comments and that the amount that he was being sued for was "$1
million".
[ edit ]
Louise Lasser
Allen later married
Louise Lasser
in 1966. Lasser would go on to co-star with Allen in
Take
the Money and Run , in what began a pattern of romantic involvement with
his leading ladies. Allen and Lasser divorced in 1969 and Allen did not marry
again until 1997. Lasser starred in three Allen films after the divorce,
Bananas ,
Everything You Always Wanted to Know About Sex (But Were
Afraid to Ask) , as well as a brief appearance in
Stardust Memories .
[ edit ]
Diane Keaton
In 1970, Allen cast
Diane
Keaton
in his Broadway play
Play It Again, Sam , which had a successful run. During this time she
became romantically involved with Allen and appeared in a number of his films,
including 1977
Best
Picture
Annie
Hall . They never married, but Allen says that she was the love of his
life.
Keaton starred in
Play It Again, Sam
as
Tony
Roberts 's lover; and although they broke up after a year she starred in a
number of his films after their relationship had ended including
Sleeper
as a futuristic poet; and in
Love and Death
as a female character from any Russian novel by
Tolstoy
or
Dostoevsky .
Annie Hall
was very important in Allen and Keaton's
careers. Then she starred in
Interiors
as a poet again; then in
Manhattan .
Later, she had a cameo in
Radio
Days , and later, she starred in
Manhattan Murder Mystery , because Allen wanted to do it when he did
Annie Hall .
She has not worked with Allen since
Manhattan Murder Mystery ,
although they are good friends.
[ edit ]
Mia Farrow
Starting around 1980, Allen began a 12-year relationship with actress
Mia
Farrow , who had leading roles in several of his movies from 1982 to 1992.
Farrow and Allen never married, but they
adopted
two
children together: Dylan Farrow (who changed her name to Eliza and is now
known as Malone) and Moses Farrow (now known as Misha); and had one biological
child, Satchel Farrow (now known as
Ronan Seamus Farrow ). Allen did not adopt any of Farrow's other biological
and adopted children, including Soon-Yi Farrow Previn (now known as
Soon-Yi Previn ).
Allen and Farrow separated in 1992 after Farrow discovered nude photographs
Allen had taken of Previn. In her autobiography,
What Falls Away
(New
York: Doubleday, 1997), Farrow says Allen admitted to a relationship with
Previn.
During a subsequent protracted legal battle, Farrow accused Allen of
sexually abusing
their adopted daughter Malone. The case never went to
trial and Allen was never indicted.
[ edit ]
Soon-Yi Previn
Shortly after separating from Farrow in 1992, Allen openly continued his
relationship with
Soon-Yi Previn , Farrow's adopted daughter. Even though Allen and Previn
denied he was ever her
stepfather , the relationship drew much public and media scrutiny. At the
time, Allen was 57 and Previn was 22.
Allen and Previn married in 1997. The couple later adopted two daughters,
naming them Bechet and Manzie after jazz musicians
Sidney Bechet
and Manzie Johnson.
3. SPIEGEL INTERVIEW WITH WOODY ALLEN, June 20, 2005
'Nothing Pleases Me More than Being Thought of as a European Filmmaker'
In an interview with DER SPIEGEL, filmmaker Woody Allen, 69, discusses his new
movie, "Melinda and Melinda", bashes the Hollywood studio system in which
corporate interests tangle with artistic freedom and explains why 9/11 is
unlikely to be a theme in any of his next films.
SPIEGEL: Mr. Allen, your film tells the same story twice, first as a
tragedy and then as a comedy. Both parts are really funny. Do you think then
that humor is the only way of reflecting reality?
Allen: Actually I don't. I think that the tendency for most people is to fall
back on a comic interpretation of things -- because things are so sad, so
terrible. If you didn't laugh you'd kill yourself. But the truth of the matter
is that existence in general is very very tragic, very very sad, very brutal
and very unhappy. Every now and then, something happens that's funny. And
that's refreshing. But then you move back into the real world, which is not
funny. You only have to pick up the newspaper in the morning and read about
the real world and you see that it's rotten, just bad.
SPIEGEL: It seems that the ancient Greeks were able to learn from the
tragedies played on stage. You hinted at classical Greek theatre in "Mighty
Aphrodite". But what about us? Does suffering make us better human beings?
Allen: There is nothing really redeeming about tragedy. Tragedy is tragic,
and it's so painful that people try to twist it and say "it's terribly hard,
but look we've achieved something, we've learned something." This is a weak
attempt to find some kind of meaning in tragedy. But there is no meaning.
There is no up-side. And suffering does not redeem anything; there is no
positive message to learn from it. I have thought for a while that it would
make a good story to look at two filmmakers, one who makes tragic films and
one who makes comedies, to see who helps people more. The first argues that
you come to his tragedy and he gives it to you so that you confront reality
and you don't escape. And because you confront life, you learn to understand
other people and you are more generous to them. The comic makes the movie and
says "The world is terrible." So you walk into the cinema, sit there for two
hours, hear a nice bit of music, have a laugh. It's like drinking a cold glass
of water on a hot day. The argument can always be made that the comic
filmmaker is doing the better service. In the end he is helping you more,
you're okay for a little while longer.
SPIEGEL: So is this one of the reasons why we don't see any hint of what
happened on September 11 in your recent films? Would your fans be scared?
Allen: No, it's because I don't find political subjects or topical world
events profound enough to get interested in them myself as an artist. As a
filmmaker, I'm not interested in 9/11. Because, if you look at the big
picture, the long view of things, it's too small, history overwhelms it. The
history of the world is like: he kills me, I kill him. Only with different
cosmetics and different castings: so in 2001 some fanatics killed some
Americans, and now some Americans are killing some Iraqis. And in my
childhood, some Nazis killed Jews. And now, some Jewish people and some
Palestinians are killing each other. Political questions, if you go back
thousands of years, are ephemeral, not important. History is the same thing
over and over again.
SPIEGEL: So maybe that's why we in Europe see you as a kind of classic
filmmaker, the Shakespeare of cinema. Is "Melinda and Melinda" like a chemical
experiment, in which you put people in different situations to see the
reaction you get?
Allen: Yes. I'm probably more interested in eternal human feelings and
conflicts. If I make a good film, it will always be good. The same feelings
and problems will persist 5000 years from now. Like the Greek tragedies which
still touch us today, which still work.
SPIEGEL: For this film and again for the next one, you didn't write a part for
yourself. Will we see you acting in your movies again soon?
Allen: Yes, I think this summer I might do a movie and be in it, because I
haven't done that for some time. If I don't have a part in a film for a while,
I get the urge to act, just for the fun of it.
SPIEGEL: After doing "Melinda and Melinda", you made "Match-Point" last summer
in London with the young Hollywood star Scarlett Johansson. Could you imagine
living for some time in Europe and maybe working with European actors?
Allen: Nothing pleases my ego more, than to be thought of as a European
filmmaker. That for me is the highest achievement. So when I made the film in
England, it was such a pleasure for me. I mean, I loved it. And when I came
home, my wife said "that was such a wonderful experience for you. Now you
could make a movie in Germany, in Barcelona, in Venice or Paris. You love all
those places." And they are so supportive of the artist in those places.
That's a different attitude. In the United States, cinema is essentially all
about the studio. And it's an industry. They want to spend a hundred million
on a movie and make five hundred million.
SPIEGEL: Do you feel more like some kind of European independent director?
Allen: In Hollywood the average film is about 50 million dollars, this is an
average film. I made my last three films for less than 15 million dollars. And
in Europe, you can do this. It's independent people who give you the money and
they are not interested in having any input, they don't interfere with my
work. So I would be very interested in doing a non-American film. I could do
this in France, because I speak a tiny bit of French. I could imagine making a
series of films abroad. It was not a frightening experience in London. It was
most gratifying. Then there is the thought of opening the films in Europe: To
me there was nothing more satisfying than the opening "Melinda and Melinda" at
the San Sebastian film festival last September.
Interview conducted by Helene Zuber
4. A short story by Woody Allen
The Whore of
Mensa
From his book "Without Feathers", Random House, 1975
Estimated Reading Time: About 10-15 Minutes
THE CLIENT
One thing about being a private investigator, you've got to learn to go
with your hunches. That's why when a quivering pat of butter named Word
Babcock walked into my office and laid his cards on the table, I should have
trusted the cold chill that shot up my spine.
"Kaiser?" he said. "Kaiser Lupowitz?"
"That's what it says on my license," I owned up.
"You've got to help me. I'm being blackmailed. Please!" He was shaking
like the lead singer in a rumba band. I pushed a glass across the desk top
and a bottle of rye I keep handy for nonmedicinal purposes.
"Suppose you relax and tell me all about it."
"You ... you won't tell my wife?"
"Level with me, Word. I can't make any promises." He tried pouring a
drink, but you could hear the clicking sound across the street, and most of
the stuff wound up in his shoes.
"I'm a working guy," he said. "Mechanical maintenance. I build and
service joy buzzers. You know - those little fun gimmicks that give people a
shock when they shake hands?"
"So?"
"A lot of your executives like 'em. Particularly down on Wall Street."
"Get to the point."
"I'm on the road a lot. You know how it is - lonely. Oh, not what you're
thinking. See, Kaiser, I'm basically an intellectual. Sure, a guy can meet
all the bimbos he wants. But the really brainy women - they're not so easy
to find on short notice."
"Keep talking."
"Well, I heard of this young girl. Eighteen years old. A Yassar student.
For a price, she'll come over and discuss any subject - Proust, Yeats,
anthropology. Exchange of ideas. You see what I'm driving at?"
"Not exactly."
"I mean my wife is great, don't get me wrong. But she won't discuss Pound
with me. Or Eliot. I didn't know that when I married her. See, I need a
woman who's mentally stimulating, Kaiser. And I'm willing to pay for it. I
don't want an involvement - I want a quick intellectual experience, then I
want the girl to leave. Christ, Kaiser, I'm a happily married man."
"How long has this been going on?"
"Six months. Whenever I have that craving, I call Flossie. She's a madam,
with a Master's in Comparative Lit. She sends me over an intellectual, see?"
So he was one of those guys whose weakness was really bright women. I
felt sorry for the poor sap. I figured there must be a lot of jokers in his
position, who were starved for a little intellectual communication with the
opposite sex and would pay through the nose for it.
"Now she's threatening to tell my wife," he said.
"Who is?"
"Flossie. They bugged the motel room. They got tapes of me discussing The
Waste Land and Styles of Radical Will, and, well, really getting into some
issues. They want ten grand or they go to Carla. Kaiser, you've got to help
me! Carla would die if she knew she didn't turn me on up here." The old
call-girl racket. I had heard rumors that the boys at headquarters were on
to something involving a group of educated women, but so far they were
stymied.
"Get Flossie on the phone for me."
"What?"
"I'll take your case, Word. But I get fifty dollars a day, plus expenses.
You'll have to repair a lot of joy buzzers." "It won't be ten G's worth, I'm
sure of that," he said with a grin, and picked up the phone and dialed a
number. I took it from him and winked. I was beginning to like him.
THE SETUP
Seconds later, a silky voice answered, and I told her what was on my
mind. "I understand you can help me set up an hour of good chat," I said.
"Sure, honey. What do you have in mind?"
"I'd like to discuss Melville."
"Moby Dick or shorter novels?"
"What's the difference?"
"The price. That's all. Symbolism's extra."
"What'll it run me?"
"Fifty, maybe a hundred for Moby Dick. You want a comparative discussion
- Melville and Hawthorne? That could be arranged for a hundred."
"The dough's fine," I told her and gave her the number of a room at the
Plaza.
"You want a blonde or a brunette?"
"Surprise me," I said, and hung up.
"I shaved and grabbed some black coffee while I checked over the Monarch
College Outline series. Hardly an hour had passed before there was a knock
on my door. I opened it, and standing there was a young redhead who was
packed into her slacks like two big scoops of vanilla ice cream.
"Hi, I'm Sherry." They really knew how to appeal to your fantasies. Long,
straight hair, leather bag, silver earrings, no make-up.
"I'm surprised you weren't stopped, walking into the hotel dressed like
that," I said. "The house dick can usually spot an intellectual."
"A five-spot cools him."
"Shall we begin?" I said, motioning her to the couch. She lit a cigarette
and got right to it. "I think we could start by approaching Billy Budd as
Melville's justification of the ways of God to man,
n'est-ce pas? "
"Interestingly, though, not in a Miltonian sense." I was bluffing. I
wanted to see if she'd go for it.
"No. Paradise Lost lacked the substructure of pessimism." She did.
"Right, right. God, you're right," I murmured.
"I think Melville reaffirmed the virtues of innocence in a naive yet
sophisticated sense - don't you agree?" I let her go on. She was barely
nineteen years old, but already she had developed the hardened facility of
the pseudo-intellectual. She rattled off her ideas glibly, but it was all
mechanical. Whenever I offered an insight, she faked a response: "Oh yes,
Kaiser. Yes, baby, that's deep. A platonic comprehension of Christianity -
why didn't I see it before?" We talked for about an hour and then she said
she had to go. She stood up and I laid a C-note on her.
"Thanks, honey."
"There's plenty more where that came from."
"What are you trying to say?" I had piqued her curiosity. She sat down
again.
"Suppose I wanted to have a party?" I said.
"Like, what kind of a party?"
"Suppose I wanted Noam Chomsky explained to me by two girls?"
"Oh, wow."
"If you'd rather forget it..."
"You'd have to speak with Flossie," she said. "It's cost you." Now was
the time to tighten the screws. I flashed my private- investigator's badge
and informed her it was a bust.
"What!"
"I'm fuzz, sugar, and discussing Melville for money is an 802. You can do
time."
"You louse!"
"Better come clean, baby. Unless you want to tell your story down at
Alfred Kazin's office, and I don't think he'd be too happy to hear it."
She began to cry. "Don't turn me in, Kaiser," she said. "I needed the
money to complete my Master's. I've been turned down for a grant. Twice. Oh,
Christ."
It all poured out - the whole story. Central Park West upbringing,
Socialist summer camps, Brandeis. She was every dame you saw waiting in line
at the Elgin or the Thalia, or penciling the words
'Yes, very true'
into the margin of some book on Kant. Only somewhere along the line she had
made a wrong turn.
"I needed cash. A girl friend said she knew a married guy whose wife
wasn't very profound. He was into Blake. She couldn't hack it. I said sure,
for a price I'd talk Blake with him. I was nervous at first. I faked a lot
of it. He didn't care. My friend said there were others. Oh, I've been
busted before. I got caught reading Commentary in a parked car, and I was
once stopped and frisked at Tanglewood. Once more and I'm a three time
loser."
"Then take me to Flossie."
She bit her lip and said, "The Hunter College Book Store is a front."
"Yes?"
"Like those bookie joints that have barbershops outside for show. You'll
see."
I made a quick call to headquarters and then said to her, "Okay, sugar.
You're off the hook. But don't leave town."
"She tilted her face up toward mine gratefully. "I can get you
photographs of Dwight Macdonald reading," she said.
"Some other time."
FLOSSIE'S
I walked into the Hunter College Book Store. The salesman, a young man
with sensitive eyes, came up to me. "Can I help you?" he said.
"I'm looking for a special edition of Advertisements for Myself. I
understand the author had several thousand gold-leaf copies printed up for
friends."
"I'll have to check," he said. "We have a WATS line to Mailer's house."
I fixed him with a look. "Sherry sent me," I said.
"Oh, in that case, go on back." he said. He pressed a button. A wall of
books opened, and I walked like a lamb into that bustling pleasure palace
known as Flossie's. Red flocked wallpaper and a Victorian decor set the
tone. Pale, nervous girls with black-rimmed glasses and blunt-cut hair
lolled around on sofas, riffling Penguin Classics provocatively. A blonde
with a big smile winked at me, nodded toward a room upstairs, and said,
"Wallace Stevens, eh?" But it wasn't just intellectual experiences. They
were peddling emotional ones, too. For fifty bucks, I learned, you could
"relate without getting close." For a hundred, a girl would lend you her
Bartok records, have dinner, and then let you watch while she had an anxiety
attack. For one-fifty, you could listen to FM radio with twins. For three
bills, you got the works: A thin Jewish brunette would pretend to pick you
up at the Museum of Modern Art, let you read her master's, get you involved
in a screaming quarrel at Elaine's over Freud's conception of women, and
then fake a suicide of your choosing - the perfect evening, for some guys.
Nice racket. Great town, New York.
"Like what you see?" a voice said behind me. I turned and suddenly found
myself standing face to face with the business end of a .38. I'm a guy with
a strong stomach, but this time it did a back flip. It was Flossie, all
right. The voice was the same, but Flossie was a man. His face was hidden by
a mask.
"You'll never believe this," he said, "but I don't even have a college
degree. I was thrown out for low grades."
"Is that why you wear that mask?"
"I devised a complicated scheme to take over The New York Review of
Books, but it meant I had to pass for Lionel Trilling. I went to Mexico for
an operation. There's a doctor in Juarez who gives people Trilling's
features - for a price. Something went wrong. I came out looking like Auden,
with Mary McCarthy's voice. That's when I started working the other side of
the law."
"Quickly, before he could tighten his finger on the trigger, I went into
action. Heaving forward, I snapped my elbow across his jaw and grabbed the
gun as he fell back. He hit the ground like a ton of bricks. He was still
whimpering when the police showed up.
"Nice work, Kaiser," Sergeant Holmes said. "When we're through with this
guy, the F.B.I. wants to have a talk with him. A little matter involving
some gamblers and an annotated copy of Dante's Inferno. Take him away,
boys." Later that night, I looked up an old account of mine named Gloria.
She was blond. She had graduated cum laude. The difference was she majored
in physical education. It felt good.
5.
"You Were Expecting Maybe Tragedy?"
The New York Times, June 14, 2007,
By
JANET MASLIN
When Truman Capote became an Oscar-worthy movie character
and “In Cold Blood” bounced back onto bestseller lists, The New Yorker
sportingly published yet another
Woody Allen
instant classic. Titled “Above the Law, Below the Box
Springs,” it mimics the absurd solemnity and keen attention to minutiae that
color self-important crime reporting in rural settings, lampooning a style
well known to New Yorker readers.
“The land is arable and found primarily on the ground,” Mr. Allen writes,
about a lonely burg located “just above the bluffs that form Planck’s
constant.” (Physicists, take note.) The victims were members of the Washburn
family. “She loved fresh lightbulbs,” a former housekeeper says of Mrs.
Washburn. “The linens we did once a year.” As to the perpetrators of this
heinous crime, the story concludes: “Whether the death penalty acts as a
deterrent remains questionable, although studies show that the odds of
criminals committing another crime drops by almost half after their
execution.”
Mr. Allen’s writing has been this funny for 50 years. And his comic essays,
like his films, have tried gambit after gambit, changing tone and subject
matter without really altering their point of view. Just as Mr. Allen brought
his own New York with him when he recently began making films in Europe, so he
has sustained a writing style that remains impervious to the changing world
around him.
As a young man he was just as likely to bring up the Gish sisters, Trotsky,
Alma Mahler or “the glinting eyes of a claim jumper in a Republic western” as
he is today. Phrases like “a no-talent zombie momser,” which appears in his
new collection, “Mere Anarchy,” might have turned up anywhere in the Allen
canon.
This summer Random House has had the temerity to bring forth dueling Allen
volumes. In addition to the relatively new work in “Mere Anarchy” (about half
of which is reprinted from The New Yorker), there is “The Insanity Defense,” a
reprint of the dazzling, triple-decker anthology that combines his three other
humor collections (“Without Feathers,” “Side Effects” and “Getting Even”).
Without question the best of these old pieces outshine the new work. The
lightning bolts that created “The Whore of Mensa” (about prostitutes paid to
discuss “The Waste Land” or explain
Noam Chomsky ) and “The Kugelmass Episode” (a pre-postmodern vision of Emma
Bovary transported to New York to meet her new lover, a professor named
Kugelmass, who suddenly finds himself dropped into Flaubert’s classic) are not
likely to strike again.
But when read in the shadow of his old stories Mr. Allen’s new ones hold
their own. Even when it creaks, “Mere Anarchy” is nostalgically enjoyable, and
most of it sounds timelessly bright. It would be impossible to discern, even
from a close reading of the piece called “Calisthenics, Poison Ivy, Final
Cut,” where carbon dating would place it in the Allen comedy timeline. There,
in the Borscht Belt, is Camp Melanoma, a haven for budding filmmakers, or, as
the disgruntled parent of one camper puts it, “the ramshackle little
Hooverville represented in your brochure as Hollywood in the Catskills.”
This parent is wondering why he should have to split the $16 million paid
by Miramax for the summer project of his son, Algae, with the camp’s director.
The piece is structured as an exchange of increasingly heated letters between
the parent and the proprietor, who will not let the film out of his
possession. The proprietor writes ominously of his 6-year-old nephew: “He
loves to take the negative out of the can and scrape the emulsion off with a
penknife. Why? Do I know? I just know he scrapes and he kvells.”
Typically, this piece is so full of Yiddishisms (“a tsimmes of talentless
trombeniks”), bilious invective and ancient history (“Are you aware your
instructor Silverfish was fired for editing a Hollywood movie because
Henry Fonda
was repeatedly cut in upside down?”) that it sounds like
vintage Allen. Only in the heat of filmmaker-financier tensions is there any
whiff of Mr. Allen’s recent history.
The stories in “Mere Anarchy” deliver the same joys and foibles that have
been with its author from the start. Take his women: please. Mr. Allen still
writes about hot babes and wifely harridans with very little in between. And
he is funniest, not surprisingly, when he can be seen working hard rather than
coasting. It has always been second nature for Mr. Allen to Mad-Lib a phrase
while on autopilot (“a long dream in which Rodgers and Hart appeared at his
window as parrots and simonized his car”) without breaking a sweat.
But more often than not the analogies fit. (“Actually I’d never seen a book
remaindered in the kindling section before.”) And when the thoughtfulness
shows (as with a renovation estimate that “waxed to the girth of the Talmud
while rivaling it in possible interpretations”), the effort pays off.
Among the more indelible lines in “Mere Anarchy” is this exchange, about a
proposed musical on geniuses rattling around 19th-century Vienna:
“Freud unblocks Mahler so he can write again, and as a result Mahler
triumphs over his lifelong fear of death.”
“How does Mahler triumph over his lifelong fear of death?”
“By dying. I figured it out — it’s really the only way.”
Or, as the levitating lecher named Max in “To Err Is Human — to Float,
Divine” says to the blond “apparition with the state-of-the-art pout”:
“Here’s my address. I’ll be home tonight after eight. Drop in. I’ll have
you off your feet in no time.”
http://smart-English.narod.ru/
Используются технологии
uCoz