Just a Little Lovin': Inspiration
Just a Little Lovin'
Pages
Start
About the larp
Practical Information
Sign up
Vision
How gay is this larp?
Inspiration
Who are we
What is Larp
Articles
Pictures from previous games
Inspiration
Here are some movies relevant to the setting, theme and costumes for the larp:
Angels in America:  HBO miniseries based on the play by Tony Kushner. Set in New York City in the mid 80s. A story of AIDS, the Reagan era and the vistations of angels.
And the Band Played On : Docudrama about the first years of the HIV epidemic.
Crazy Sexy Cancer : Thematically very relevant even if it isn't the right time period. This documentary made by a young film-maker finding out she has a rare form of cancer chronicles how she plunges into the both fascinating and hilarious world of holistic medicine and alternative spirituality.
Desperately Seeking Susan : Madonna and Rosana Arquette stars in this hit comedy-drama from 1985. The New York setting and costumes makes this worth having a look at.
Do the Right Thing : Spike like film from 1989 about a black and Puerto Rican neigbourhood in New York.
Hedwig and the Angry Inch : The Story of an East German transgendered alternative rock singer who moves to the US. Based on the stage play of the same name.
I like it Like That : A film from the early 90s about a young Puerto Rican couple from South Bronx.
Longtime Companion : How the first years of the AIDS epidemic affect the lives of a group of gay men in New York City. The portrayal of the gay scene is somewhat sanitized for a mainstream cinema audience.
Love! Valour! Compassion! : 8 gay men spending 3 summer weekends in Upstate New York. Set during the 90s but relevant for it's cast of characters.
Manhattan  and  Hannah and Her Sisters  are two of the best Woody Allen films about frustrated New York academics  from this period.
Torch Song Trilogy :  Harvie Fierstein both directs and stars in this movie based on his own play from 1982 about the life of a New York drag show artist in the 1970s.
Tootsie : Dustin Hoffman had great success with this 1982 comedy about an unemployed actor in New York impersonating a woman to get a part in a Soap Opera
54 : Movie about the hottest nightclub in New York in the late 70s / early 80s.
Some playlists with music for the time and setting can be found here:
1982 playlist on Spotify
1983 playlist on Spotify
1984 playlist on Spotify
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share to Pinterest
Home
Subscribe to:
Posts (Atom)
There was an error in this gadget
Powered by
Blogger .