Manish Joshi / International Journal of Engineering Research and Applications (IJERA)
ISSN: 2248-9622 www.ijera.com Vol. 2, Issue 2,Mar-Apr 2012, pp.961-964

Classification, Clustering And Intrusion Detection System
Manish Joshi
MCA Final Year
Amity University, Uttar Pradesh
Under Guidance of Ms. Shruti Nagpal

Abstract
Cluster analysis or clustering is the task of assigning a set
of objects into groups (called clusters) so that the objects
in the same cluster are more similar (in some sense or
another) to each other than to those in other clusters.
Classification and clustering techniques in data mining
are useful for a wide variety of real time applications
dealing with large amount of data. Some of the
applications of data mining are text classification,
selective marketing, medical diagnosis, intrusion
detection systems. In information security, intrusion
detection is the act of detecting actions that attempt to
compromise the confidentiality, integrity or availability
of a resource. Intrusion detection systems are software
systems for identifying the deviations from the normal
behavior and usage of the system. They detect attacks
using the data mining techniques-classification and
clustering algorithms. In this report I discuss various
approaches based on classification and clustering
techniques and the use of clustering techniques in
intrusion detection. I also discuss some of the application
of data mining.

1. Introduction
Clustering is the process of organizing data into
meaningful groups, and these groups are called clusters.
Clustering groups (clusters) objects according to their
perceived, or intrinsic similarity in their characteristics,
Even though it is generally a field of unsupervised
learning, knowledge about the type and source of the data
has been found to be useful in both selecting the
clustering algorithm, and for better clustering. This type
of clustering generally aims to give tags to the clusters
and has found use in fields like content mining.
Classication techniques analyze and categorize the data
into known classes. Each data sample is labeled with a
known class label. Classification is a classic data mining
task, with roots in machine learning.
Clustering can be seen as a generalization of
classification. In classification we have the knowledge
about the object, the characteristics we are looking for
and the classifications available. So classification is more
similar to just finding Where to put the new object in.
Clustering on the other hand analyses the data and finds

out the characteristics in it, either based on responses
(supervised) or more generally without any responses
(unsupervised).
An intrusion detection system (IDS) inspects all inbound
and outbound network activity and identifies suspicious
patterns that may indicate a network or system attack
from someone attempting to break into or compromise a
system. They can be categorized into 1.1 Misuse Detection Vs. Anomaly Detection System
In misuse detection, the IDS analyze the information it
gathers and compares it to large databases of attack
signatures. Essentially, the IDS look for a specific attack
that has already been documented. Like a virus detection
system, misuse detection software is only as good as the
database of attack signatures that it uses to compare
packets against. Misuse detection systems model attacks
as a specic pattern and are more useful in detecting
known attack patterns.
In anomaly detection, the system administrator defines
the baseline, or normal, state of the network, traffic load,
breakdown, protocol, and typical packet size. The
anomaly detector monitors network segments to compare
their state to the normal baseline and look for anomalies.
.
1.2 Network-Based vs. Host-Based System
In a network-based system, or NIDS, the individual
packets flowing through a network are analyzed. The
NIDS can detect malicious packets that are designed to
be overlooked by a firewall??s simplistic filtering rules.
In a host-based system, the IDS examines at the activity
on each individual computer or host.
1.3 Passive Systems Vs. Reactive Systems
In a passive system, the IDS detect a potential security
breach, logs the information and signals an alert. In a
reactive system, the IDS respond to the suspicious
activity by logging off a user or by reprogramming the
firewall to block network traffic from the suspected
malicious source.
Data mining approaches can be applied for both anomaly
and misuse detection. The data sample is a set of system
properties, representing the behavior of the system/user.

961 | P a g e

Manish Joshi / International Journal of Engineering Research and Applications (IJERA)
ISSN: 2248-9622 www.ijera.com Vol. 2, Issue 2,Mar-Apr 2012, pp.961-964
Classication techniques are used to learn a model using
the training set of data samples. The model is used to
classify the data samples as anomalous behavior instance
or the normal behavior instance. Clustering techniques
can be used to form clusters of data samples
corresponding to the normal use of the system. Any data
sample with characteristics dierent from the formed
clusters is considered to be an instance of anomalous
behavior. Clustering based techniques can detect new
attacks as compared to the classication based
techniques.

2. Data Mining Classification Methods
The data mining consists of various methods. Different
methods serve different purposes, each method offering
its own advantages and disadvantages. The Classication
process involves following steps:
1. Create training data set.
2. Identify class attribute and classes.
3. Identify useful attributes for classication (relevance
analysis).
4. Learn a model using training examples in training set.
5. Use the model to classify the unknown data samples.
The commonly used methods for data mining
classification tasks can be classified into the following
groups.
2.1 Decision Trees (Dts)
A decision tree is a tree where each non-terminal node
represents a test or decision on the considered data item.
Choice of a certain branch depends upon the outcome of
the test. To classify a particular data item, we start at the
root node and follow the assertions down until we reach a
terminal node (or leaf). A decision is made when a
terminal node is approached. Decision trees can also be
interpreted as a special form of a rule set, characterized
by their hierarchical organization of rules.
2.2 Neural Networks
Neural networks (NN) are those systems modeled based
on the human brain working. As the human brain consists
of millions of neurons that are interconnected by
synapses, a neural network is a set of connected
input/output units in which each connection has a weight
associated with it. The network learns in the learning
phase by adjusting the weights so as to be able to predict
the correct class label of the input. An articial neural
network consists of connected set of processing units.
The connections have weights that determine how one
unit will affect other. Subset of such units act as input
nodes, output nodes and remaining nodes constitute the
hidden layer. By assigning activation to each of the input
node, and allowing them to propagate through the hidden
layer nodes to the output nodes, neural network performs
a functional mapping from input values to output values.

The mapping is stored in terms of weights over
connection.
2.3 Naive Bayesian Classiers
Naive Bayesian classiers use the Bayes theorem to
classify the new instances of data. Each instance is a set
of attribute values described by a vector, X = (x1, x2 . . . ,
xn). Considering m classes, the sample X is assigned to
the class Ci if and only if
P(X|Ci)P(Ci) > P(X|Cj )P(Cj )
for all j in (1, m) such that j =6 i.
The sample belongs to the class with maximum posterior
probability for the sample. For categorical data P(Xk|Ci)
is calculated as the ratio of frequency of value xk for
attribute Ak and the total number of samples in the
training set. For continuous valued attributes a Gaussian
distribution can be assumed without any loss of
generality. In naive Bayesian approach the attributes are
assumed to be conditionally independent In spite of this
assumption, naive Bayesian classiers give satisfactory
results because focus is on identifying the classes for the
instances, not the exact probabilities. Application like
spam mail classication, text classication can use nave
Bayesian classiers. Theoretically, Bayesian classiers
are least prone to errors. The limitation is the requirement
of the prior probabilities. The amount of probability
information required is exponential in terms of number of
attribute, number of classes and the maximum cardinality
of attributes. With increase in number of classes or
attributes, the space and computational complexity of
Bayesian classiers increases exponentially
2.4 Fuzzy Sets
Fuzzy sets form a key methodology for representing and
processing uncertainty. Uncertainty arises in many forms
in todays databases: imprecision, non-specificity,
inconsistency, vagueness, etc. Fuzzy sets exploit
uncertainty in an attempt to make system complexity
manageable. As such, fuzzy sets constitute a powerful
approach to deal not only with incomplete, noisy or
imprecise data, but may also be helpful in developing
uncertain models of the data that provide smarter and
smoother performance than traditional systems.
3. Clustering Methods
There are many clustering methods available, and each of
them may give a different grouping of a dataset. The
choice of a particular method will depend on the type of
output desired.
In general, clustering methods may be divided into two
categories based on the cluster structure which they
produce.

962 | P a g e

Manish Joshi / International Journal of Engineering Research and Applications (IJERA)
ISSN: 2248-9622 www.ijera.com Vol. 2, Issue 2,Mar-Apr 2012, pp.961-964
3.1 Non Hierarchical
The non-hierarchical methods divide a dataset of N
objects into M clusters, with or without overlap. These
methods are sometime divided into partitioning methods,
in which the classes are mutually exclusive, and the less
common clumping method, in which overlap is allowed.
Each object is a member of the cluster with which it is
most similar however the threshold of similarity has to be
defined.
3.2 Hierarchical
The hierarchical methods produce a set of nested clusters
in which each pair of objects or clusters is progressively
nested in a larger cluster until only one cluster remains.
The hierarchical methods can be further divided
into agglomerative
or
divisive
methods.
In agglomerative methods, the hierarchy is build up in a
series of N-1 agglomerations, or Fusion, of pairs of
objects, beginning with the un-clustered dataset. The less
common divisive methods begin with all objects in a
single cluster and at each of N-1 steps divide some
clusters into two smaller clusters, until each object
resides in its own cluster. Some of the important Data
Clustering Methods are described below.

4. Partitioning Method
The partitioning methods generally result in a set of M
clusters, each object belonging to one cluster. Each
cluster may be represented by a centroid or a cluster
representative; this is some sort of summary description
of all the objects contained in a cluster. The precise form
of this description will depend on the type of the object
which is being clustered. In case where real-valued data
is available, the arithmetic mean of the attribute vectors
for all objects within a cluster provides an appropriate
representative. Example of portioning method: k-means
clustering
4.1 K-means Clustering
is
a
method
of cluster
analysis which aims
to partition n observations into k clusters in which each
observation belongs to the cluster with the nearest mean.
Given a set of observations (x1, x2, , xn), where each
observation is a d-dimensional real vector, k-means
clustering aims to partition the n observations into k sets
(k  n) S = {S1, S2, , Sk} so as to minimize the withincluster sum of squares (WCSS):

Where
i is the mean of points in Si.

4.2 K-mediod Clustering
k-mediod is a classical partitioning technique of
clustering that clusters the data set of n objects
into k clusters known a priori. It is more robust to noise
and outliers as compared to k-means because it
minimizes a sum of pairwise dissimilarities instead of a
sum of squared Euclidean distances. The most common
realization of k-mediod clustering is the Partitioning
Around Mediods (PAM) algorithm and is as follows:
Initialize: randomly select k of the n data points as the
mediods associate each data point to the closest mediod.
("closest" here is defined using any valid distance metric,
most
commonly
Euclidean
distance, Manhattan
distance or Minkowski distance)
For each mediod m
For each non-mediod data point o
Swap m and o and compute the total cost of the
configuration
Select the configuration with the lowest cost.
Repeat steps 2 to 5 until there is no change in the mediod.
5. Intrusion Detection Systems
An Intrusion Detection System (IDS) is the device or
software application that monitors network and system
activities for malicious activities and produces reports to
a Management Station.
The characteristics of a good intrusion detection system
are:
1. High detection rate.
2. Less false alarms.
3. Less CPU cycles.
4. Quick detection of intrusion.
The user prole, system behavior comprising of the
statistics related to the network, CPU, memory,
processes, software and applications used by the users
constitute the test data for the intrusion detection system.
5.1 Anomaly based intrusion detection system
Anomaly detection was proposed for Intrusion that falls
out of normal system operation. This is as opposed to
signature based systems which can only detect attacks for
which a signature has previously been created.
In order to determine what attack traffic is, the system
must be taught to recognize normal system activity. This
can be accomplished in several ways, most often
with artificial intelligence type techniques. Systems
using neural networks have been used to great effect.
Another method is to define what normal usage of the
system comprises using a strict mathematical model, and
flag any deviation from this as an attack. This is known
as strict anomaly detection.
Anomaly-based Intrusion Detection does have some
short-comings, namely a high false positive rate and the
ability to be fooled by a correctly delivered attack. Rest
of the section discusses the approaches for anomaly

963 | P a g e

Manish Joshi / International Journal of Engineering Research and Applications (IJERA)
ISSN: 2248-9622 www.ijera.com Vol. 2, Issue 2,Mar-Apr 2012, pp.961-964
detection based on the classication and clustering
techniques.
5.1.1 Naive Bayesian Approach
A naive
Bayes
classifier is
a
simple
probabilistic classifier based
on
applying Bayes'
theorem with strong (naive) independence assumptions.
A more descriptive term for the underlying probability
model would be "independent feature model". In simple
terms, nave Bayes classifier assumes that the presence of
a particular feature of a class is unrelated to the presence
of any other feature, given the class variable.
5.1.2
Neural Networks
Neural Networks can be used for anomaly detection. The
approach consists of maintaining a database of a
sequence of system calls made by each program to the
operating system, used as the signature for the normal
behavior. If online sequence of system calls for a
program dier from the sequence in the database
anomalous behavior is registered. If signicant
percentage of sequences does not match then alarm for
intrusion is raised.
Back propagation network is trained with training set of
sequences of system calls. A leaky bucket algorithm is
used to capture the temporal locality of the anomalous
sequences. When closely related anomalous sequences
are faced, counter gets a large value and when a normal
sequence is obtained the counter gradually drops down to
zero. This leads to intrusion detection only when a lot of
similar anomalous sequences are obtained, thereby
representing the behavior of intruder.

available. Classification methods are typically strong in
modeling interactions.
Clustering can be seen as a generalization of
classification and it is unsupervised learning. Clustering
techniques can be used for intrusion detection, as they
can detect unknown attacks also. They are useful for
misuse detection as well as anomaly detection systems.
Intrusion detection systems are one of the key areas of
application of data mining techniques. Network based
(NIDS) are easy to deploy and can monitor many host
based (HIDS) detects at application layer and no trouble
with encryption.

References
a.

Jiawei Han and Micheline Kamber, Data Mining
Concepts and Techniques, Morgan Kaufmann

b.

www.it.iitb.ac.in/~kaushal/downloads/seminarrepor
t.pdf

c.

http://home.dei.polimi.it/matteucc/Clustering/tutori
al_html/

d.

http://www.ecmlpkdd2006.org/kyriakopoulou.pdf

e.

Clustering and Classification-Wikipedia

f.

Intrusion Detection System-Wikipedia

g.

http://www.sans.org/reading_room/whitepapers/det
ection/understanding-intrusion-detectionsystems_337

5.1.3
Hierarchical Clustering
Hierarchical clustering is based on the core idea of
objects being more related to nearby objects than to
objects farther away. As such, these algorithms connect
"objects" to form "clusters" based on their distance. A
cluster can be described largely by the maximum distance
needed to connect parts of the cluster. At different
distances, different clusters will form, which can be
represented using a dendrogram, which explains where
the common name "hierarchical clustering" comes from:
these algorithms do not provide a single partitioning of
the data set, but instead provide an extensive hierarchy of
clusters that merge with each other at certain distances. In
a dendrogram, the y-axis marks the distance at which the
clusters merge, while the objects are placed along the xaxis such that the clusters don't mix.

6. Conclusion
Classification is a
machine learning.
learning and we
characteristics we

classic data mining task, with roots in
Classification is a field of supervised
have the knowledge about both the
are looking for and the classifications

964 | P a g e

