Libations Lounge: The "Perfect" Manhattan
skip to main
|
skip to sidebar
Libations Lounge
[lie-bay-shun]
The pouring of a liquid offering as a religious ritual.
Friday, February 25, 2011
The "Perfect" Manhattan
So far, I have only reviewed beers, but now I am in search of the perfect "Perfect"
Manhattan . What is a Manhattan, you ask? Well it's more or less a Martini made with Whiskey. But wait...there's more. That is a very simplistic analogy because the Manhattan can be so much more and variations of it are immense. Rumors swirl that the Manhattan was created in 1860 by a bartender named Black or in 1874 at the Manhattan Club. Either way, the basic original is
Rye Whiskey , Sweet Vermouth, and Bitters. Today there are several versions and I hope to entice you with a few of my favorites. To begin, there must be Whiskey. Rye whiskey is harder to find now than in 1874, but purportedly a Canadian Whiskey is a close cousin and will suffice. I have used Canadian in an effort to recreate the original. Makers Mark Kentucky Bourbon made an impact on this cocktail and was actually the first version I ever tried. I say use what you have and what you like. I tend to have bourbon around so I use it. My version today contains
Evan Williams Kentucky Bourbon . Next comes Vermouth. Originally, the drink used Sweet Vermouth only but I like to offset the sweetness by adding equal amounts of Dry Vermouth. Dry Vermouth is what makes this a "Perfect" Manhattan. Vermouths are not expensive and will last you a long time so buy a decent brand besides the generic label. Cinzano and Martini Rossi are good. Most bars will make the original with Sweet only and I its usually too much for me. So here is today's "Perfect"recipe: 1 oz Sweet Vermouth 1 oz Dry Vermouth 4 oz Evan Williams Whiskey 2 dashes Bitters 1 Maraschino Cherry Add ice and shake all ingredients except cherry. Drop cherry into a martini glass and strain the amber richness into glass. Sip and enjoy. The Review: Its good, but it may still be a little heavy on the Vermouth's. My next attempt will be a drier version where I shake both the Vermouths and ice alone, then pour out the liquid, just leaving a flavor on the ice, then adding whiskey and bitters.
Posted by
Libations Lounge
at
8:51 AM
Reactions:
1 comment:
wesd February 25, 2011 at 9:26 PM A recommendation for you Jimmy. I recently did a little variation of a Manhattan that ended up on my drink list at work. Try using orange bitters as opposed to regular bitters. It adds a little sweetness. If you do this though stay away from the sweet whiskeys. I would suggest using maybe Knob Creek or some other small batch. Speaking of whiskey I also made a Makers Mark sidecar as a drink special last weekend. If you like a sweet whiskey drink give it a try: 2 oz. Makers Mark 1/2 oz. Cointreau 1/4 oz. simple syrup Fresh limes
Muddle limes and simple syrup in shaker. Add ice whiskey and Cointreau. Shake. Serve in a sugar rimmed martini glass. This is my favorite drink right now (until tomorrow). Reply Delete Add comment Load more...
Newer Post
Older Post
Home
Subscribe to:
Post Comments (Atom)
Followers
Blog Archive
▼
2011
(24)
►
March
(4)
▼
February
(15)
Sierra Nevada "Celebration" Ale
Sierra Nevada "Torpedo" Extra IPA
Sierra Nevada Pale Ale
Bear Republic Racer 5 IPA
The "Perfect" Manhattan
Bridgeport Brewing "Cafe Negro" Coffee Infused Por...
Elysian Brewing Company "Mens Room Red" Ale
Samuel Smith's Winter Welcome Ale 2010
Dogfish Head Chicory Stout
Guinness Foreign Extra Stout
"Half and Half"
Harps Lager and Guiness Stout
Deschutes Brewery "Jubelale" Winter Beer
Elysian "Night Owl" Pumpkin Ale
Widmer Brothers Drifter Pale Ale
Fuller's London Pride English Bitter
►
January
(5)
►
2010
(5)
►
December
(4)
►
April
(1)
►
2009
(6)
►
November
(1)
►
August
(5)
About Me
Libations Lounge
I started this blog to share my love of unique brews, wines and spirits with my friends around the world. I am originally from Texas, but moved to Seattle in my teens. I have had the opportunity to enjoy many of Seattle's culinary as well as fermented offerings.I am a beer home-brewer and super geek for all things beer. I also enjoy wines and learning more about them. Spirits and Cocktails will have it's place here too. My loves include family, friends, beer, wine, chocolate, single malt scotch, and cigars. Prost, Cheers, and Slainte to all my new friends!!
View my complete profile