Leo DiCaprio loves Taxi Driver
Rediff India Abroad Home
|
All the sections
News
Business
Movies
Cricket
Sports
Newshound
Classifieds
Connexions
Matchmaker
Fare Tracker
Photos
Gifting
Mobile
Search:
The Web
India Abroad
Newsletters Sign up today! Article Tools
Email this article Top emailed links
Print this article Contact the editors Discuss this article
Home
>
Movies
>
Hollywood News Leonardo DiCaprio loves
Taxi Driver Rediff Entertainment Bureau |
September 21, 2006 15:22 IST Leonardo DiCaprio
L eonardo DiCaprio
told the British daily
The Independent
in an article published on Thursday about his favourite films.
It's a top ten list largely comprising of classics, and fans of the young star will be surprised to see his decidedly old-school taste in cinema. He starts off completely textbook, rating Vittorio De Sica's 1948 classic
Bicycle Thieves
at the very top, calling it 'the prototypical movie of
Italian neo-realism .' Then comes 'dear friend' Martin Scorsese -- who directed him in
Gangs Of New York, The Aviator , and the upcoming
The Departed
-- getting the runner-up spot with his 'masterpiece,'
Taxi Driver . Lawrence Of Arabia
enters at number 3, Leo transfixed by the 'famous long shot of a heat-blurred desert resolving itself into the image of Omar Sharif riding towards the camera.' At number 4 is Federico Fellini's
autobiographical
8 1/2 , about a director suffering creative block. Orson Welles is DiCaprio's next pick, starring in Carol Reed's 1949 film,
The Third Man . At 6 comes Akira Kurosawa, with his 1961
Yojimbo , the film Sergio Leone remade as the spaghetti Western
A Fistful Of Dollars . At 7 is Woody Allen -- who directed Leo in the unfavourably received 1998
Celebrity
-- with his
Manhattan , ( right ) Leo picking it over
Annie Hall
as he thinks this 'black-and-white hymn to New York shows Woody Allen at the top of his game.' Sunset Boulevard
is at No 8, the 1950 film ever-compelling to industry folk as a vital 'comment on the way Hollywood can destroy people.' At 9 comes Stanley Kubrick's
The Shining , ( left ) and while Leo acknowledges Jack Nicholson's demented portrayal as 'miles over the top, but this is horror at its finest.' East Of Eden , Elia Kazan's 1955 film that happens to be James Dean's last, left a lasting impression on young Leo, as it 'is packed with Biblical imagery and has wonderfully evocative theatrical moments.' All in all, a very interesting list of 10 fine films. Also, it's intriguing to see the intense
Aviator
star gravitating constantly towards films driven by intense single-star performances.
Share your comments
Advertisement
Copyright © 2006 Rediff.com India Limited. All Rights Reserved.