LCBO | Meanwhile, at the Manse
Meanwhile, at the Manse
Retrieving and renovating a childhood home
Search
Main menu
Skip to primary content
Skip to secondary content
Home About
Tag Archives:
LCBO
Is this thriving general store a model for Queensborough?
Posted on
July 26, 2012
by
Katherine Sedgwick
10
The general store in tiny Castleton, Ont.: if Castleton can do it, why not Queensborough? (Photo by
Will S.
via
Flickr )
I’ve written
before
about the excellent blog
Ancestral Roofs
(ancestralroofs.blogspot.ca). It explores heritage and architecture, with a particular focus on southeastern Ontario, including Hastings County. Pretty and historic little Queensborough is frequently cited in it, to my great pleasure (and, I’m sure, those of other Queensboroughians who love to see the attributes of our hamlet celebrated).
Anyway, one recent post at Ancestral Roofs has been buzzing around in my head for a while. In the post (which is
here ) we read about the general store in
Castleton , Ont.: “Post Office, LCBO, general merchandise – what more could a village want? Judging by the traffic in and out, folks are pretty satisfied with the services offered. Built in 1870, and featuring some of the original counters and display cases, the building has Greek Revival grandeur – reminds me of the old store in Queensborough, though the years have been kinder to this structure.” (There are also some beautiful photos showing details of the building. Go have a look!)
I learned a bit more about the store at the
Visit Cramahe website . (Castleton is a hamlet in Cramahe Township, which is part of
Northumberland County
– the county immediately to the west of
Hastings County , where Queensborough is.) Here’s what that site’s
page on the store
tells us:
“You will truly take a step back in time when you visit the Castleton General Store. Built in 1870, it still contains some of its original countertops and display cases. Now one of the longest continually run general stores in Canada, it is very well known for its ice cream lineups in the summertime. The store also offers a variety of gifts and groceries. Open 7 days a week until 9 p.m. For more information call (905) 344-7341.”
Now, here’s what else I found out about Castleton while doing some quick research for this post: the population is only about 350 people! That’s not vastly more than the population of what I like to call the Greater Queensborough Area, which would include Queensborough proper, the reasonably well-populated area to the east of it on Declair Road and Rockies Road, the hamlet of Cooper, the hamlet of Hazzard’s Corners, the homes south of town on Bosley Road, and the homes west of town on Queensborough Road.
In addition, Castleton is located more closely to a “town” than is Queensborough: it is less than 15 minutes to Colborne (and Highway 401), whereas it’s 15 minutes or a little better from Queensborough to either Madoc or Tweed (both of which are still half an hour north of the 401).
So here’s what I’m getting at: if tiny Castleton, population 350ish, can support a thriving general store, could Queensborough do so once again? (I wrote about the general stores of old
here .) It certainly would not hurt one bit if such a store were able to have
Liquor Control Board of Ontario
and
Beer Store
franchises, as the one in Castleton does. Not that I’m suggesting the people of Queensborough (or Castleton, for that matter) are lushes, but hey: it’s a draw for a community if people are able to buy wine, beer or spirits there – in addition to food and other essentials, of course!
Since
we bought the Manse , several people in Queensborough have been kind enough to say that if we ever run out of anything – milk, eggs – to not hesitate to come borrow it from them. And we’ve also been told that people making a run to Madoc or Tweed or Belleville don’t mind picking up necessities for others.
But wouldn’t it be awesome if Queensborough, like Castleton, boasted a place to mail a letter, to buy a hot cup of coffee or a newspaper or an ice-cream cone, to pick up the milk and butter and eggs and toilet paper that you always need, as well as perhaps some locally made home baking or handicrafts, maybe some freshly picked local corn or tomatoes or blueberries, and maybe some beer or a bottle of wine, maybe even some gardening or hardware materials: to me, that would be absolute heaven. We could enjoy the Manse and never have to go anywhere if we didn’t want to!
I know that a couple in Queensborough are thinking of – actually, I think they have moved beyond the “thinking” to the “planning” stage – opening a café that might have a store or even bed-and-breakfast component. That would be so terrific.
I think tiny Castleton can show us the way!
Share this: Twitter Facebook Email Pinterest LinkedIn Google Like this: Like
Loading...
Posted in
Uncategorized
|
Tagged
Ancestral Roofs ,
Beer Store ,
Castleton General Store ,
Colborne ,
Cooper ,
general stores ,
Highway 401 ,
LCBO ,
Madoc ,
Queensborough ,
Tweed
|
10
Replies
Local flavours (III): beverages
Posted on
April 6, 2012
by
Katherine Sedgwick
15
Oh man, does this take me back …
Time to pick up where I left off and finish this first round of sharing what I know about distinctly local things to eat and drink in the central Hastings area. I hope I’ll find out about many more as Raymond and I spend more time there.
Wilson's Ginger Ale came from Toronto, Pure Spring from Ottawa. Both are, sadly, long gone.
So this post is about things to drink, and I’m going to start nostalgically by mentioning two soft drinks that are no longer extant:
Wilson’s Ginger Ale
and
Pure Spring Ginger Ale . Wilson’s, in the distinctive green bottle with the white lettering, was produced in Toronto, and Pure Spring in Ottawa, so neither was specifically connected to Hastings County. But both were regional – I don’t suppose you could have got either in Western Canada, or perhaps even Western Ontario – and quite popular in my youth. There seemed to be a Pure Spring push-bar on every general-store door in the area, and I bet you can still find them on some long-shuttered stores. (I am going to look.) Pure Spring made other soft drinks too, but it’s the ginger ale that I most associate with the name – perhaps because ginger ale was generally the soft drink of choice on the extremely rare occasions when our family had what we called “pop” at all.
And then there’s rye, which was very much – and I think maybe still is – the preferred liquor for the liquor-drinkers in that part of the world. I recall a phase when some rye company was attaching stickers that said “A Proud Canadian” to its bottles somehow, and it seemed liked every kid on the school bus had one or more (sometimes many) of those stickers on his or her school binders – except the Sedgwick kids, whose parents’ lips never went near strong drink.
On one of our early visits to look at the Manse, Raymond and I stayed overnight in Tweed and visited that town’s L.C.B.O. (that’s
Liquor Control Board of Ontario
for you outside-Canada readers) store, hoping to find some
wines from not-far-away Prince Edward County . Which we did; for a small liquor store, it has a good selection, and a very friendly and knowledgeable clerk who guided us. But what really struck us was the huge wall of rye. I might be exaggerating to say that more space was allotted to rye than to all other products in the store combined, but I don’t think I’m exaggerating by much. And we subsequently discovered that it’s much the same at the big
LCBO at the Quinte Mall
in Belleville and at the one in Madoc. It’s rye country, for sure. Probably partly because of the big
Corby
distillery that used to be at
Corbyville
(gee, I wonder where they got the name), which is just north of Belleville. There is a history of the distillery operation
here , on an excellent site called
ghosttownpix.com . (“This website is dedicated to all those forgotten communities, which whether due to lousy planning, impossible dreams, or rotten luck, just didn’t make it.”)
Here
is the Ontario section of the site. And here is a wonderful re-creation of the slideshow that was shown to visitors to the Corbyville plant in 1969:
As it happens, rye – especially good rye – has become a rather popular and trendy drink again, doubtless due to the
Mad Men
influence. My long-ago colleague
Beppi Crosariol , who worked with me at the
Kingston Whig-Standard
and is now the wine and spirits writer at the
Globe and Mail , has done several recent columns recommending good rye and good rye drinks, notably the classic
Manhattan . I had clipped
one of those articles , and Raymond and I were able to find most of the brands Beppi was recommending at the good old
Tweed liquor store . And I can now make a mean Manhattan – just like Beppi, who in a helpful video can show you how too,
here .
Finally, what might be the most exciting one of all: a winery in central Hastings! It’s at  Sulphide , a tiny place with a funny name a little east of Tweed (ergo very close to Queensborough), and it’s called the
Potter Settlement Winery . According to the
Harvest Hastings website , it is scheduled to open in 2013 but “already consists of 10 planted acres of vinifera, hybrid and VQA-recognized grapes.” ( VQA
stands for Vintners Quality Alliance, and it’s a Canadian regulatory and appellation system like
AOC
in France or
DOC
in Italy.)
So sometime in 2013, Raymond and I will be trying out the wares of our own local winemaker. Perhaps at our first open house at the Manse. If you are reading this, consider yourself invited.
Share this: Twitter Facebook Email Pinterest LinkedIn Google Like this: Like
Loading...
Posted in
Uncategorized
|
Tagged
Beppi Crosariol ,
Corbyville ,
Corbyville distillery ,
LCBO ,
Manhattan ,
Potter Settlement Winery ,
Pure Spring Ginger Ale ,
rye ,
Sulphide ,
VQA ,
Wilson's Ginger Ale
|
15
Replies
Talk to me about HydroOne. And: a house wine for the Manse.
Posted on
February 8, 2012
by
Katherine Sedgwick
15
Castillo de Almansa: the house wine of the Manse?
Thanks to you all for the many comments that have been coming in. Funny cracks, helpful insights, good suggestions. I had hoped to respond to a bunch of them individually this evening, but have run out of time. (I am busy cooking.) But I will! And for now I’ll single out
one in particular : a post from my cousin Valerie Payne, who, in discussing the benefits of an upstairs laundry room, also reminded me of the simple pleasure of hanging clothes to dry outdoors. Clotheslines – I love clotheslines! I love how the clothes smell when you bring them in after they’ve been absorbing all that sun and fresh air. I love the fact that it’s good for the environment. Not crazy about stiff-as-a-board towels, but it’s a reasonable tradeoff. In the big back yard at the Manse, I’ll be able to have a clothesline. I’m excited!
Now, on to other things. People of
Ontario , talk to me about
HydroOne . What do you think of it? I remember
Ontario Hydro
in the olden days being a pretty efficient operation, and I will say the same about
Hydro-Québec
today. But HydroOne, my gracious.
My introduction was a longer-than-necessary conversation with a customer-service representative that started off with him telling me that in order for me to do anything on the account I’d have to get
my husband’s permission
(i.e. Raymond would have to contact them to tell them it was OK). Can you imagine? This seems to have been based on less-than-complete information provided to HydroOne as part of the property transfer, so okay, cut them some slack. But still… my husband’s
permission ?
After I painstakingly –
very
painstakingly – went over with him the billing address in Montreal, spelling out everything twice (because I know from experience how much trouble customer-service people in ROC [Rest Of Canada] or the U.S. have with French words or names), my first mailed communication from HydroOne arrived with “Mrs.” in front of my name, whether I liked it or not (and whether I was a “Mrs.” or not), my street name spelled incorrectly, and my municipality’s name also spelled incorrectly. And that was just the billing address; they’ve buggered up the Manse’s address too. And when I tried to fix it online, only some bits could be fixed. Apparently I’ll be “Mrs.” forever in their books (or until I talk another customer-service representative out of it over the phone), and God knows what it’ll take to get the Manse’s address sorted out. Yikes! Is this par for the course, Ontarians?
It’s enough to drive a girl to drink, or at least a nice glass of red wine. So get this: last night on the way home from work, we stopped at an
SAQ
outlet to pick up some wine, and Raymond grabbed a couple of bottles of a Spanish one that we’d not tried before. We opened it tonight, and that was when I saw the name for the first time:
Castillo de Almansa ! Raymond claims he hadn’t even noticed that when he bought it, but: coincidence? I think not.
And given that it turns out to be quite good, and isn’t expensive, and seems to be available at the
LCBO
as well as the SAQ, I think we may have on our hands a new house wine for the Manse.
Share this: Twitter Facebook Email Pinterest LinkedIn Google Like this: Like
Loading...
Posted in
Uncategorized
|
Tagged
Castillo de Almansa ,
clotheslines ,
HydroOne ,
LCBO ,
Ontario ,
Ontario Hydro ,
ROC ,
SAQ ,
Valerie
|
15
Replies
Search
Recent Posts
One good popcorn-ball recipe and bam! It’s Halloween.
Like the sign says: Vote ↑ !
Bonnie Hart, that is one heck of a 1960s music scrapbook!
Peace and dignity, and local care, in the autumn of life
In which a historic church joins the internet, and turkey is served
Follow Meanwhile, at the manse by email
Enter your email address to follow this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Archives
October 2015
September 2015
July 2015
June 2015
May 2015
April 2015
March 2015
February 2015
January 2015
December 2014
November 2014
October 2014
September 2014
August 2014
July 2014
June 2014
May 2014
April 2014
March 2014
February 2014
January 2014
December 2013
November 2013
October 2013
September 2013
August 2013
July 2013
June 2013
May 2013
April 2013
March 2013
February 2013
January 2013
December 2012
November 2012
October 2012
September 2012
August 2012
July 2012
June 2012
May 2012
April 2012
March 2012
February 2012
January 2012
Categories
Al Purdy
(7)
Bancroft
(1)
books
(2)
Christmas
(18)
Food at the Manse
(13)
Gardening
(7)
Journalism and News
(5)
Madoc
(4)
Madoc Township Public School
(1)
Manse-era vintage toys and games
(3)
Montreal
(1)
Music in the Manse Years (1964-1975)
(24)
North of 7
(2)
Raymond
(1)
Rock Acres Peace Festival
(10)
St. Andrew's United Church
(1)
thrift shops
(2)
TV in the Manse Years
(10)
Tweed
(1)
Uncategorized
(915)
Actinolite
Al Purdy
auctions
Avocado Green
Bancroft
Belleville
Black River
Bobbie
Bobbie's
books
Campbellford
Canadian Shield
Christmas
CJBQ
Cooper
Dad
Elaine
Eldorado
Elzevir Township
France
general stores
Haliburton County
Harvest Gold
Hastings County
Hazzards Corners
Hidden Goldmine Bakery
Highway 7
Highway 62
Historic Queensborough Day
internet
J.A.S. Keay
John
Ken
linoleum
Loyalist College
Mad Men
Madoc
Madoc Fair
Madoc Township
Madoc Township Public School
Maine
Manse Committee
maple tree
Marmora
McMurray's
Melanie
Montreal
Montreal Gazette
Mum
Ormsby
Perth
Peterborough
Port Hope
Prince Edward County
Queensborough
Queensborough Community Centre
Queensborough Pastoral Charge
Raymond
red
red truck
Rock Acres Peace Festival
Sieste
St. Andrew's United Church
Stirling
Stoco
The Country North of Belleville
The Rev. Wendell Sedgwick
Times to Remember in Elzevir Township
turquoise
Tweed
Tweed and Area Heritage Centre
Tweed News
United Church of Canada
wasps
yard sales Meta
Register
Log in
Entries
RSS
Comments
RSS
WordPress.com
Follow Meanwhile, at the Manse on WordPress.com
The Twenty Eleven Theme .
|
Blog at WordPress.com .
Meanwhile, at the Manse
Blog at WordPress.com .
The Twenty Eleven Theme .
Follow
Follow “Meanwhile, at the Manse”
Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.
Join 232 other followers
Build a website with WordPress.com
Send to Email Address
Your Name
Your Email Address
Cancel
Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
%d
bloggers like this:
Add your thoughts here... (optional)
Post to
Cancel