Abstract Connectivity - 'Turn up the AC!' Blog | "making and maintaining connections between those considered apart from concrete existence"
Abstract Connectivity – 'Turn up the AC!' Blog
"making and maintaining connections between those considered apart from concrete existence"
RSS
about abstract connectivity
Manhattan – The Recipe
Manhattans
We’re happy to report that our
brandied cherries
are coming along nicely; not so cherry pie and more like a maraschino!  You’ve got to love what a little time and patience can do.  That being said, we thought we should probably supply you with a recipe for making
Manhattan Cocktails , so that you’ll have something to use those cherries in.  But first, a little general info from Bill:
” I definitely prefer a rye whiskey as opposed to Bourbon, however in the case of bourbon, one a bit heavier on the rye addition.  This latest
Bulleit
Rye has been tasting really nice.  The
Evan Williams Single Barrel , while not super heavy on the rye, offers a bit sweeter less spicy manhattan.   Noilly Pratt
is a nice vermouth that is reasonably priced.  It’s more complex and a bit less sugary sweet than Martini Rossi.   Agnostura Bitters are a classic addition.  It can be hard to average out 1.5 dashes (recommended per drink), so on a per drink basis I might go with two.  It’s a good thing we’re usually making two, because three dashes is much easier.”
The Makings of a Manhattan
Manhattans for Two
4 oz Rye Whiskey
2 oz Noilly Pratt Sweet Vermouth
3 Dashes of Agnostura Bitters
2 Maraschino Cherries
Measure ingredients into cocktail shaker.  Add 6 or 7 cubes of ice.  Stir with long-handled bar spoon for 1 minute.  Strain drink into 2 martini glasses.  Enjoy!
A couple of notes:
– We ordered our bar supplies from
Bar Products .  The website is kind of goofy, but they’ve got a lot of stuff for reasonable prices.
–  Also, we didn’t know before, but there’s an art to stirring a cocktail.  Check
this  out, and try it yourself.
Rate this:
06/06/2011
abstract connectivity
Leave a comment
Categories:  Beverages
Tags:  Manhattan Cocktail ,
Manhattan cocktail recipe
Manhattan: Making Brandied Cherries
Manhattan Begins....
A small, but crucial, element of the
Manhattan cocktail  is the cherry waiting for you at the bottom of the glass.  As we’ve become a little obsessed about mixing the perfect Manhattan, traditional maraschino cherries have become less and less appealing.  Why you ask?  This sentence from
Wikipedia
just about sums it up “In their modern form, the cherries are first preserved in a brine solution usually containing sulfur dioxide and calcium chloride to bleach the fruit, then soaked in a suspension of food coloring (common red food dye, FD&C Red 40), sugar syrup, and other components”.  Sulfur dioxide, calcium chloride, red food dye, sugar syrup (of the high fructose corn syrup variety), and ‘other components’.  Um, no thanks.  However, you can’t make a proper Manhattan without a cherry, so our search continued.
At
Whole Foods
we found
Tillen Farms Merry Maraschino Cherries : no red dye, made with pure cane sugar, and preservative free.  The color is darker than you’re typical maraschino, but the flavor is pretty comparable.  We can live with, and enjoy, Tillen Farms’ cherries.  But, if you know us, then you know we like to Do It Yourself ( DIY
will probably become an overused term in the coming posts)!  Enter making brandied cherries.
We saw a recipe in
Imbibe Magazine’s Nov/Dec 2010
issue and tweaked it after reading this
recipe
on Sloshed.
Cherries Simmering
Here’s our go at it:
1.5 lb Sweet Cherries (we chose not to pit them as mentioned in Slosh)
1/2 cup Sugar
1/2 Water
1/2 oz Fresh Lemon Juice
1 Cinnamon Stick
1 tsp Vanilla Extract
Pinch of Ground Nutmeg
3/4 cup + 1/8 cup Brandy
1/8 cup Maraschino Juice from Tillen Farms Merry Maraschino Cherries
Bring sugar, water, lemon juice, cinnamon stick, vanilla, and nutmeg to a boil in a medium saucepan.  Reduce heat to medium.  Add cherries and simmer for 5 minutes.  Remove from heat, take out the cinnamon stick, and add brandy and maraschino cherry juice.  Stir and let cool.  When cool, pour into quart jar with lid.  Cap and store in refrigerator for 2 weeks.
Brandied Cherries
Note: Neither recipe allowed for or mentioned ‘soaking time’….or time for the flavors to meld before using.  We had our first cherries the day we made them, and think they taste like cherry pie.  We’re not sure if that’s
the  flavor we were going for, but we think that the cherries will definitely improve with time.
Until then, we’ll raise our Manhattans and say “Cheers!”.
Rate this:
30/05/2011
abstract connectivity
1 Comment
Categories:  Beverages
Tags:  Brandied Cherries Recipe ,
Cocktail Recipes ,
Cocktails ,
Manhattan Cocktail
Things I think about at 1am
1.  Vacationing at a villa in France – Marriott just sent me a fantastic deal!
2.  Hell, why not just move to France?
3.  For that fact, why not move anywhere in Europe?
4.  Can I really have another martini?
5.  Do I need another martini?
6.  martini, martini, martini
7.  “Horses, horses, horses”
8.  I really miss Seattle (see #7….’Sleepless in Seattle’ reference).
9.  Bill is so esoteric…..and loves it.
10. I should be looking at the Challah bread recipe for tomorrow’s End of Summer Dinner with friends (what?!?!? do those two things even belong together???).
11. Pork belly – must it be saved for tomorrow?
12. “I should go buy a chef’s coat, it adds legitimacy.”
13. No, you’re funny.
Rate this:
15/09/2010
abstract connectivity
2 Comments
Categories:  ramblings
Tags:  France ,
martini ,
Seattle ,
villa
Rowing in Unison – the complete post
(note: on a late night after a couple of whiskey sours, I accidentally published an unfinished version of this post.)
I hosted my sister’s bridal shower this weekend.  Now that the last mini quiche has been eaten, the final sips of mimosa drank, and the sighs of “it’s over!” sighed I can ponder partnerships in peace (and with a whiskey sour in hand).
I’ve been married twice.  My first lasted 8 years in the eyes of the law; 7 in mine.  It was a high school sweetheart marriage – enough said.  My second is going on 5 years.  We were married by a judge in a Seattle high rise overlooking Puget Sound.  It was the first day of spring, and it was gorgeous!  Only two friends joined us (we’re still hearing jabbing comments from family about that one).  Our judge, a proud Native American, wore his hair in a long braid and held his tie in place with a scimitar shaped pin.  He told us stories of canoeing in unison and requested that we look out of the ceiling to floor windows as the sun set on the water.  “Take some time to remember this moment.  In the future, when you see clouds like this or a sunset like this or anything else of note, think of this day and the love you feel for each other.”  It sounds so cheesy to write, but as I do, I’m filled joy and a sense of tranquility.  Afterwards, we toasted our union with our two friends and enjoyed a fabulous dinner alone.  It was a beautiful day, and a perfect start.
The Path
We’re happy.  There have been difficulties, but we forge through together and come out stronger in the end.  It feels so different than the first time around, where no matter what happened we seemed to drift further apart.  I don’t profess to know how to have a happy partnership, you’ll have to figure out what works for you and what doesn’t (unique people = unique relationships = unique happiness and unique unhappiness).  However, here are a few things that seem to have put us on the right path:
1.  Rowing in Unison – That judge was definitely on to something.  ‘B’ and I are cut from the same cloth, birds of a feather, soul mates…you catch my drift.  We enjoy the same hobbies, music, art, movies, and activities.  Even more important, we share the same philosophies on life and living.  We’ve known each other almost 10 years and we’ve both changed and grown; in the same direction.  We’ve heard from plenty of naysayers about “opposites attract” and “getting bored of each other because you’re so similar”.  I believe that both are untrue.  Someone opposite of yourself might initially seem intriguing, but where does that get you?  My first marriage was a perfect example, and I have many a friend who now complains about how their spouses “never want to do the things I want to do” and “we never do anything together anymore”.  I’m not saying that this model won’t work.  But, I think people in this situation must be surrounded with like-minded friends who fill a void.  ‘B’ is the first person I want to talk to, play with, cook with, drink with, create with, and be with.  That’s important to me.
2.  We talk….a lot.  Our relationship began with late night, hours-on-end talks and that hasn’t stopped.  We talk philosophy and politics, we brainstorm business ideas and this week’s cooking, we scrutinize music and art, we discuss the ins and outs of child rearing/family life and setting a good example, we sympathize and empathize with each other’s plights, and we debate the finer details until we’ve got everything just so (or until the topic is changed mid-sentence).
3.  We’re each other’s second worst critic (ourselves being first) – There’s a healthy amount of competition built into our relationship (established on the first day we met each other) that adds a little spice, but in the end we push each other to be our best selves.  If we notice something that the other could be doing better, we’re not afraid to let each other know.  Sometimes that can be maddening.  They don’t call it brutal honesty for nothing.  However, we trust each other’s judgement and more often than not that judgement is correct (khaki really doesn’t look good on me).
4.  We’re each other’s most enthusiastic cheerleader – We love to see each other shine.  Through the ups and downs, you’ll find us cheering the other on.
Row baby row….I’ll end on that somewhat sappy note.
Rate this:
11/08/2010
abstract connectivity
Leave a comment
Categories:  ramblings
Tags:  marriage ,
opposites attract ,
partnership ,
rowing ,
unison
inside looking out
Inside looking out
Two cats prowl
Two cats howl
Wistful glances
Out of doors
Scampering limited
to hardwood floors
Wild at heart
but not street smart
Their days will remain
on this side
of the window pane
Rate this:
10/08/2010
abstract connectivity
Leave a comment
Categories:  ...and I didn't even know it
Tags:  cat ,
indoor ,
outdoor ,
poem
A tongue reader once told me….
Once upon a time in a land brimming with coffee (Seattle) yours truly was working the bar (espresso) and slinging some major joe when who should poke their little head above the steaming machine?  None other than the friendly neighborhood tongue reader.  The tongue reader had been frequenting our shop for quite some time in the company of her faithful sidekick.  After weeks of preparing them each a ginormous mug of hot green tea and watching as they chattered back and forth while scribbling madly on legal pad after legal pad, I decided to do what any good barista in search of a tip does, I inquired about what it was they were up to.
Who knew that this simple question was all that was needed to release the floodgate of details, frenzy, excitement, and eventual fateful words.  I learned that the tongue reader was writing a book about, bet you can’t guess, tongue reading.  Apparently, tongue characteristics such as color, size, spots, etc can be used to make a diagnosis about your overall health.  The other baristas gathered round the tongue reader as if she was a fortune-teller at the carnival.  She proceeded to study their coffee stained tongues and would declare “too hot, stop drinking alcohol!” or “oooh, good color!” or “hmmmmm” as she shook her head.
I backed away as the spectacle occurred.  First of all, I wasn’t to excited about sticking my tongue out for minutes on end as the tiny Asian woman hmmm’d and haw’d over every taste bud.  Second, I have a short life line.  What’s that got to do with anything you ask?  Well, I’ve never had my palm read officially, but I know that my life line is short and you
know
what that means.  No, it doesn’t mean you’ll die early, it just means that you’re probably going to have health problems that may dampen your quality of life.  Do I believe it?  I’m not sure, but I don’t really want to hear it from someone or put that energy out into the Universe.  Regardless, I was able to slip out the back door on a ‘supply run’ excuse and thought that would be the end of it.
Weeks passed and the tongue reader and her steadfast note keeper neared the end of their book.  The timing just happened to coincide with my last days at this particular job.  I’d pretty much written off any chance of having my tongue read at this point.  I spent the first few hours of my final day chatting with regulars and exchanging “good lucks” and “it’s been a pleasure”, when who should arrive but the tongue-tied duo.  They approach the bar and order their usual.  Then the sidekick says, “We’re sad to see you go.  She wants to read your tongue”.  I frantically try to think of an excuse and rush behind the bar to prepare their tea.  They wait.  I hand over the steaming cups and the sidekick says, “She’s a very talented tongue reader.  Truly amazing.  Please let her do your reading”.  I stutter, excuses stuck behind my swollen tongue….I stick it out.
The tongue reader frowns and shakes her head; small creases forming on her forehead.  I swear I see sadness.  She very softly says, “you are weak from birth”.  Nonplussed, I feel the red rise in my cheeks and a sinking feeling in the pit of my stomach.  Silence.  I mean seriously, what
can
you say in that situation?  “Thanks!  That’s just what I wanted to hear!  My problems are solved!”  Nope, my problems (apparently) stemmed from being born.  After what seems like an eternity, the sidekick nervously grabs her green tea and mumbles “good luck” as she scurries off toward their favorite table.  The tongue reader doesn’t budge, but she smiles.  “Your ears though, they tell me you were meant for greatness. Many great ones had ears like you.  Please keep in touch, I can’t wait to hear what you do.”
Rate this:
23/07/2010
abstract connectivity
3 Comments
Categories:  ramblings
Tags:  barista ,
tongue ,
tongue reader ,
universe
the middle(wo)man
That’s me.  I often find myself in the middle….fielding queries from one and passing them to another just in time to turn around for the pass back and query answer transfer.  Confused?  Me too, sometimes.  It takes a lot of organization to keep it going, because something is always coming and going and “oh, the consequences!’ of passing the wrong info to the right person….or is it the other way around?
Then there’s the problem of time.  Time is not on the side of the middle(wo)man, because you are always at the mercy of decision makers and power holders.  I can guarantee that my wants/agenda/needs are not at the top of these people’s priority list.  That being the case, the the middle(wo)man is forced to become the pest (you’ve got that person or project on the other side waiting….and waiting…..and waiting for an answer and action).  I am a pest.  Ask my boss (inside joke kind of wink to the boss here).  I’m the one sending all of those
reminder
emails and voicemails and text messages and instant messages….and any other mode of communication I think might work.  Please tell me you got the memo!
The middle(wo)man is the messenger and sometimes the bearer of bad news.  This is tough.  I am not the decision maker, but I pass along the decisions.  “Don’t shoot the messenger” takes on a whole new meaning in my life.  Delivering exciting info and positive decisions is way easier and fun, but has a downside as well.  Ultimate gratitude goes to the person in power, not to the messenger.
Stuck Between
OK, so I’m not going to sit here and just rant about being a middle(wo)man.  Au contraire!  I’ve learned a lot from my adventures in between.  First, I’m adaptable.  I talk to a lot of different people with a lot of different needs.  I’ve become pretty good at matching my style of interacting with the person I’m interacting with resulting in faster turn around and happier peeps.  I can geek out with the geeks, hold the hands of the clueless, speak up, speak down, and listen when you need an ear.  I already mentioned this, but I’ve also become way more organized.  This was not a skill I possessed for the first 30ish years of life.  Since becoming a middle(wo)man, organization has become a life saver (thank you gmail/gcal/gdoc!).  I’m not going to fool you into thinking I’m insanely organized, I most definitely am not (and don’t care to be for that matter).  But, if someone like me can benefit from a little bit of order, maybe you can too.
Finally, I realize that being on either side of the middle(wo)man can be just as tough.  Needing things and having power come with their own set of difficulties and life lessons.  That’s where I come in.  Middle men and women everywhere step in to lighten the load and promote the flow.  I like to think that my time spent as a middle(wo)man will pay off when I move to a position of power.  That’s right, I can’t be a middle(wo)man forever can I…or can I?
Rate this:
30/06/2010
abstract connectivity
2 Comments
Categories:  ramblings
Tags:  Decision Maker ,
Middleman ,
Organization
« Older Entries
You may have missed…
You may have missed…
Select Month
June 2011
May 2011
September 2010
August 2010
July 2010
June 2010
Categories
Categories
Select Category
…and I didn’t even know it
Beverages
ramblings
I wrote this!
abstract connectivity
would you like an email subscription?
Enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Join 3 other followers
Blog at WordPress.com . |
The Dark Wood Theme .
Abstract Connectivity – 'Turn up the AC!' Blog
Create a free website or blog at WordPress.com .
The Dark Wood Theme .
Follow
Follow “Abstract Connectivity - 'Turn up the AC!' Blog”
Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.
Build a website with WordPress.com
Add your thoughts here... (optional)
Post to
Cancel