NorCal Cocktails:
Fort Point | Examiner.com
Skip to main content
Report this ad
In Leisure:
Food & Drink Travel Spa & Beauty Autos & Motorcycles Bars & Clubs
Facebook Twitter Google Plus Search
Leisure
Bars & Clubs
Nightlife
See also:
cocktails
Midtown Bars
downtown bars
Drinks
Recipes
NorCal Cocktails:
Fort Point
Use your
key for the next article Next:
Ten good gluten-free vodkas for the gluten intolerant
April 29, 2012
5:07 PM MST
Facebook
Twitter
Pinterest
Linkedin
Google Plus
Comment
Right where it belongs. Kevin Dupzyk
In the NorCal Cocktail series, your correspondents spotlight their favorite
drinks
and provide guidance as to where ingredients may be procured.
Up today:
The Fort Point cocktail.
When you're onto a good thing, why deviate?
The
last post
in this series shared the recipe for the Ward Eight cocktail, a boston classic that dates back quite a ways.
As long as we're in The Hub, we might as well check in on a more modern classic.
The Fort Point is the signature cocktail of
Drink , Boston's excellent cocktail bar.
A variation on the
Manhattan , the drink swaps
Punt e Mes , a more bitter liquid, in for the usual sweet vermouth and trades out bitters for
Benedictine , the herbal liqueur.
The result is a drink with the usual smooth ground floor that rye provides, and then turns both bitter and sweet as you climb the stairs.
The recipe:
2 oz. rye whiskey
1/2 oz. Punt e Mes
1/4 oz. Benedictine
Stir with chipped ice and strain into a cocktail glass.
The traditional accompaniement to this drink, as with the Manhattan, is a prepared cherry.
Serve this on the side.
All of the ingredients for this drink are readily available at any well stocked liquor store in the area - BevMo and Total Wine usually being the safest and most fairly-priced bets.
For the rye, stick with
Old Overholt .
Report this content
Share
this article
Facebook
Twitter
Pinterest
Linkedin
Google Plus
Comment
Subscribe
to author
Comments
Kevin Dupzyk Sacramento Downtown Bars Examiner Kevin Dupzyk is an aspiring writer with the usual proclivity for the water of life.
A long-time patron (saint?) of the bar scene, this Northern California native has spent the last few years drinking whisk(e)y in New England and now – back in Sacramento – is ready to discover the bar scene from downtown to midtown. If you’ve ever been to see a man about a dog, tell Kevin about it at
drinkmidtown@gmail.com .
Contact me
Featured
Video
Related
stories
Visine bar prank: The dangerous truth about putting eye drops in a drink
Blushing Brides, a tribute to the Rolling Stones
Joliet and suburban Halloween parties and events
The top 5 places to meet singles in San Diego
Trick and Treat: Adult Halloween Parties in Kansas City
Leisure
highlights
Review : Smartphone Wallet from Harley-Davidson is perfect for rides around town Harley-Davidson has got some great new items in store for the 2015 holiday season and their Smartphone Leather Wallet for the ladies makes a perfect gift or stocking stuffer. It is made of lambskin...
Camera
Six best beauty looks from Black-ish star Tracee Ellis Ross Black actresses are definitely having a moment when it comes to drawing in audiences for TV shows. From Kerry Washington in “Scandal” to Viola Davis in “How to Get Away with Murder”, shows starring...
Next
Article
Ten good gluten-free vodkas for the gluten intolerant
Report this ad
POPULAR
in BARS & CLUBS
Visine bar prank: The dangerous truth about putting eye drops in a drink
Blushing Brides, a tribute to the Rolling Stones
Joliet and suburban Halloween parties and events
The top 5 places to meet singles in San Diego
Trick and Treat: Adult Halloween Parties in Kansas City
Top Ten Pizza Joints in the Clearwater Area
Scientist warn organic and natural cosmetics and skin care products are no good
Casey McQuillen, you matter
Halloween Parties All Over Central NY
Yellowstone National Park Benefit by The National Park Service @ Bowery Hotel
TRENDING
on EXAMINER.COM
Final Jeopardy answer costs contestant $6000 as she unwittingly insults liberals
Three pit bulls rescued from Florida storm drain
Heartbroken dog begs his owner not to abandon him at shelter
Stunned passengers watch huge dog roll into first class on airplane
Skeletal dog fights for her life in Phoenix
Undercover sting results in arrest of man who wanted to have sex with animals
D'Arcee Neal: Severely disabled man on plane crawls down aisle
Saudi prince drug smuggling on private plane: Will Saudi prince be beheaded?
Megalodon teeth from mouth of 60-ft shark: Jaw-dropping find on N.C. shore
Florida hunter blows life away of nearly blind, old 'Grandfather Bear'
Report this ad
Report this ad
Facebook
Twitter
Linkedin
Google+
Pinterest
Company Links
About us
OnTopic custom content
The Rowdy
Advertise with us
Sitemap
Examiner.com Entertainment
| AXS Network | © 2006-2015 AXS Digital Group LLC d/b/a
Examiner.com |
Privacy Policy
|
Terms of Use
|
About us
Choose a Topic
Arts & Entertainment Arts & Entertainment Music Movies TV Arts & Exhibits Performing Arts Reality TV Celebrity Pop Culture Animation Young Adult Fiction Books Movie Reviews Comic Books AXS Entertainment AXS Entertainment Music Movies TV Arts & Exhibits Performing Arts NFL NHL MLB NBA Fight Sports Soccer Recreational Sports Reality TV Music Festivals News News Top News International News Strange News Science & Space Politics Elections Environment Extreme Weather Government Crime & Courts Business & Finance Same-Sex Marriage Small Business Stock Market Gun Control Global Warming Personal Finance Democrat Republican Political Buzz Marketing and PR Immigration Life Life Home & Living Pets Style & Fashion Family & Parenting Health & Fitness Education Religion & Spirituality Weight Loss & Dieting Weddings Gardening Home Improvement Relationships Green Living Nutrition Neighborhoods Careers & Workplace Sales & Deals Healthcare Jobs Hobbies Leisure Leisure Food & Drink Travel Spa & Beauty Autos & Motorcycles Bars & Clubs Recipes Drinks Budget Travel DIY Mechanic Auto Reviews Natural Beauty Luxury Travel Makeup Hair & Nails Sports Sports MLB NFL NBA NHL Soccer Fight Sports Recreational Sports College Sports General Sports Fantasy Sports Motorsports Hunting & Fishing Hiking Camping Running Equestrian Water Sports Action Sports Endurance Sports Recreation Tech Tech Gadgets & Tech Video Games Internet Tech Gear Tablets iPhone Google Glass Wearable Tech Xbox One Playstation 4 Photography MMOGs Handheld Games Facebook Anonymous Social Media Consoles Bitcoin Google Twitter Video Log In / Register Write for Us
Search