The intrepid home bartender:
bourbon whiskey | Examiner.com
Skip to main content
Report this ad
In Leisure:
Food & Drink Travel Spa & Beauty Autos & Motorcycles Bars & Clubs
Facebook Twitter Google Plus Search
Leisure
Food & Drink
Drinks
The intrepid home bartender:
bourbon whiskey
June 24, 2010
8:39 AM MST
Facebook
Twitter
Pinterest
Linkedin
Google Plus
Comment
When it comes to setting up a good home bar, the intrepid bartender has to have bourbon.  Not just whiskey, mind you, but bourbon whiskey.  The old saw goes "All Bourbon is whiskey---but not all whiskey is Bourbon!"
By law and careful regulation, Bourbon must meet certain criteria before it can be called
Bourbon .
it must be made in the United States.  Despite what some believe, it doesn't have to be made in Kentucky (although most of it is).
it must be made entirely of grain, with a minimum 51% corn.  And therein lies a major difference point in Bourbons, as the mix of grains may vary wildly.
it must be distilled at or below certain proof levels.
it must go into the barrel at certain proof levels as well.
it must be aged in barrels, and only new, charred white-oak barrels may be used...once.
Pure water only---no other additives are allowed (no flavoring or coloring)
Bourbon also must be bottled at a minimum of 80 proof (but can be much higher).
Even given these rigid constraints, however, there are as many Bourbon styles---well, as many styles as there are brands, and there are hundreds of brands.
But with all those brands, and all those intricate variations, it comes down to two major factors that determine the style and taste of a Bourbon:  the grain recipe used, and the maturation of the spirits in the barrels.
And that brings us to the Bourbon The Intrepid Home Bartender should have in his well-equipped bar.
You'll need two to properly represent Bourbon:  Woodford Reserve and Maker's Mark.
Maker's Mark
is what aficionados call a "wheated whiskey".  Beyond the required corn, the predominant grain used is wheat, and wheat gives a softer, simpler, sweeter style of Bourbon.  Maker's Mark is great for mixed drinks and for those who like the softer, sweeter style.  It's not terribly complex---but then, it's not meant to be.  And it is very, very popular.
Woodford Reserve , in contrast, is what is referred to as a "rye-heavy whiskey", since it is composed of about 18% rye grain, and the remainder of the mix is malted barley. No wheat, so it is in contrast with
the Maker's Mark, stylistically.   It's also made in triple pot stills (the only Bourbon made that way), then mingled with other Bourbons.  Woodford generally has more maturation to it as well, for added color, depth and richness of flavor.
The rye in Woodford gives it greater body and complexity of flavor, and a decided spicy edge as well, so it's perfect for those who like more assertive flavors in their whiskey, and therefore in their cocktails.
The quintessential drink of Bourbon is the
Manhattan .  Make one
with Maker's and you'll get a pleasant, relatively sweet and gentle cocktail.  Make one with Woodford, however, and you'll get a bolder, spicier, and signficantly more complex cocktail.
So it comes down to choice, really.  And if you have Maker's Mark and Woodford Reserve on hand in your bar, you'll have the choices covered.   These two whiskies will satisfy all your needs for Bourbon drinkers.
Report this content
Share
this article
Facebook
Twitter
Pinterest
Linkedin
Google Plus
Comment
Subscribe
to author
Comments
Hoke Harden Portland Spirits Examiner An enthusiastic lover of wine and spirits, Mr. Harden left a career in academia to follow his other muse for the last 27 years, trekking around the world to the great producing regions. Recently referred to as a veritable walking omnibus of wine and spirits knowledge, he has experienced every possible facet of the world of wine and spirits as a retailer, restaurateur, bartender, buyer, wholesaler, supplier, marketer, critic, writer, competition judge and an educator.
He is currently with Elixir Vitae Wine & Spirits Consultants, a member of the Society of Wine Educators, Wine & Spirits Instructor at Mt. Hood Community College, and a Master Instructor with the French Wine Academy. Twitter
Contact me
Featured
Video
Related
stories
Day of the Dead: History, customs in modern Mexican
and Pan de Muertos recipe
Doing craft beer and brewing right on an island in Maine
Koloa announces Kaua'i Coffee Rum from Hawaii
Tap Room grand opening at Whole Foods Market Blossom Hill in San Jose
Nothing scary about these Halloween inspired red wines
Leisure
highlights
Review : Smartphone Wallet from Harley-Davidson is perfect for rides around town Harley-Davidson has got some great new items in store for the 2015 holiday season and their Smartphone Leather Wallet for the ladies makes a perfect gift or stocking stuffer. It is made of lambskin...
Camera
Six best beauty looks from Black-ish star Tracee Ellis Ross Black actresses are definitely having a moment when it comes to drawing in audiences for TV shows. From Kerry Washington in “Scandal” to Viola Davis in “How to Get Away with Murder”, shows starring...
Report this ad
POPULAR
in FOOD & DRINK
Paula Deen’s amazing chicken casserole
Carnival squash recipes: 8 ways to cook the sweet, mellow vegetable
The best mashed potatoes and the best homemade gravy recipe ever
Easy Halloween dessert recipes for spooktacular parties
Christmas snack recipes: Ranch oyster crackers recipe
Order your 2015 Thanksgiving dinner to go at Publix
Day of the Dead: History, customs in modern Mexican
and Pan de Muertos recipe
Kinnikinnick Foods’ new soft donuts take prepared doughnuts to a new level
Halloween parties: 6 easy and creepy foods to serve
Apple recipe:
One extra little step makes this the best apple crisp recipe ever
TRENDING
on EXAMINER.COM
Final Jeopardy answer costs contestant $6000 as she unwittingly insults liberals
Three pit bulls rescued from Florida storm drain
Heartbroken dog begs his owner not to abandon him at shelter
Stunned passengers watch huge dog roll into first class on airplane
Skeletal dog fights for her life in Phoenix
Undercover sting results in arrest of man who wanted to have sex with animals
D'Arcee Neal: Severely disabled man on plane crawls down aisle
Saudi prince drug smuggling on private plane: Will Saudi prince be beheaded?
Megalodon teeth from mouth of 60-ft shark: Jaw-dropping find on N.C. shore
Florida hunter blows life away of nearly blind, old 'Grandfather Bear'
Report this ad
Report this ad
Facebook
Twitter
Linkedin
Google+
Pinterest
Company Links
About us
OnTopic custom content
The Rowdy
Advertise with us
Sitemap
Examiner.com Entertainment
| AXS Network | © 2006-2015 AXS Digital Group LLC d/b/a
Examiner.com |
Privacy Policy
|
Terms of Use
|
About us
Choose a Topic
Arts & Entertainment Arts & Entertainment Music Movies TV Arts & Exhibits Performing Arts Reality TV Celebrity Pop Culture Animation Young Adult Fiction Books Movie Reviews Comic Books AXS Entertainment AXS Entertainment Music Movies TV Arts & Exhibits Performing Arts NFL NHL MLB NBA Fight Sports Soccer Recreational Sports Reality TV Music Festivals News News Top News International News Strange News Science & Space Politics Elections Environment Extreme Weather Government Crime & Courts Business & Finance Same-Sex Marriage Small Business Stock Market Gun Control Global Warming Personal Finance Democrat Republican Political Buzz Marketing and PR Immigration Life Life Home & Living Pets Style & Fashion Family & Parenting Health & Fitness Education Religion & Spirituality Weight Loss & Dieting Weddings Gardening Home Improvement Relationships Green Living Nutrition Neighborhoods Careers & Workplace Sales & Deals Healthcare Jobs Hobbies Leisure Leisure Food & Drink Travel Spa & Beauty Autos & Motorcycles Bars & Clubs Recipes Drinks Budget Travel DIY Mechanic Auto Reviews Natural Beauty Luxury Travel Makeup Hair & Nails Sports Sports MLB NFL NBA NHL Soccer Fight Sports Recreational Sports College Sports General Sports Fantasy Sports Motorsports Hunting & Fishing Hiking Camping Running Equestrian Water Sports Action Sports Endurance Sports Recreation Tech Tech Gadgets & Tech Video Games Internet Tech Gear Tablets iPhone Google Glass Wearable Tech Xbox One Playstation 4 Photography MMOGs Handheld Games Facebook Anonymous Social Media Consoles Bitcoin Google Twitter Video Log In / Register Write for Us
Search