Potter Settlement Winery | Meanwhile, at the Manse
Meanwhile, at the Manse
Retrieving and renovating a childhood home
Search
Main menu
Skip to primary content
Skip to secondary content
Home About
Tag Archives:
Potter Settlement Winery
Local sausage, local wine – what more could one ask?
Posted on
October 9, 2014
by
Katherine Sedgwick
Reply
Winemaker Robin Johnson and his assistant from
Potter Settlement Winery , which is very possibly the first winery in
Hastings County
and is located not far from
Queensborough , set out their wares at the Feast from Farm event in Tweed a couple of weekends ago. Raymond and I bought the first bottle of their product ever sold!
Toronto’s St. Lawrence Market last weekend: overcrowded and overhyped, if you ask me. I’ll take smaller local markets any time.
Raymond and I were in
Toronto
last weekend, and visited the much-vaunted
St. Lawrence Market . Now, both of us had been there in the past – but it was the rather distant past, so it was kind of like it was all new. All around the place were signs proclaiming that
National Geographic had named it “The Best Market in the World.”
Man, typical Toronto “we’re world-class” attitude. The St. Lawrence market is perfectly all right, I suppose, but (on a Saturday morning, anyway) it is wildly and most unpleasantly overcrowded. And you know what? When it comes to gorgeous super-local produce and general friendly ambience, it has
nothing
on
Montreal ‘s
Jean Talon Market . Trust me on this. (And the next time you have a chance to get anywhere near Montreal, go visit Jean Talon. As should
National Geographic , by the way.)
Anyway, my point here is not compare big farmers’ markets in Montreal and Toronto. I’m actually trying to lead you in to a story about a different sort of market, a much smaller and more local and quite exciting one, that Raymond and I visited one recent weekend.
It was a special event called Feast from Farm organized by the economic-development and promotion folks at the
Municipality of Tweed , and it was held outdoors in downtown
Tweed , in a park right beside pretty
Stoco Lake . It wasn’t huge; there were about 15 booths featuring products from the area, everything from home baking and jams to pickled eggs. There were also four booths where chefs were cooking up samples of local products, two where beers from local microbreweries were featured, and – most exciting of all, as far as I was concerned – one featuring what I believe is the very first winery in
Hastings County . It is called
Potter Settlement Winery , and happily for us here in the
Queensborough
area, it is very close by – just a jog down Potter Settlement Road, which is in the vicinity of the hamlet of Sulphide, not far from Tweed. I just think it is the coolest thing ever that we have our very own local winery.
Prince Edward County , look out!
I have been hearing bits and bobs about Potter Settlement Winery ( here
is its Facebook page) for the past two or three years, but learned that they were still in the building stage, working toward their first harvest and first year of wine production. Well, guess what: this is the year! At the Feast from Farm event, winemaker Robin Johnson was offering tastings of the first two wines, a red called Marquette Rouge and a white called Frontenac Gris. Since trying out these local wines was the primary reason Raymond and I attended the event, we beetled over to the booth and did just that. And were very impressed! We bought a bottle of the Marquette Rouge, and guess what: it was the very first bottle they’d ever sold!
On the front page of the
Tweed News
the following week, there was a photo of Robin Johnson at the event and a writeup about it, and in it he was quoted as saying they’d sold their first-ever bottle of wine there. Raymond and I are very proud to have been the buyers! It is stored in the wine cellar, perhaps permanently since it’s such a one-of-a-kind thing; I think we’ll have to stock up on more bottles for actual consumption.
At the Feast from Farm event in Tweed, visitors were served up sausages (with great sauerkraut and mustard on the side) made at
Seed to Sausage
in
Sharbot Lake . Yum!
The other highlight of the Feast from Farm was no less than the best sausages we have ever tasted. They came from an operation based in tiny
Sharbot Lake , Ont. – about 45 minutes due east of us on beautiful
Highway 7
– called
Seed to Sausage . Neither of us had ever heard of it before, but you can bet we will be paying attention from now on. Seed to Sausage makes sausages (of course) and also salami, pancetta and a variety of other kinds of smoked meats. What they were serving up at Feast to Farm, alongside some good mustard and splendid sauerkraut, was a sausage that included – get this! – cheese curds from
Empire Cheese
of RR#5
Campbellford . (The best of the local cheese factories, we are reliably informed by locals who know their cheddar cheese; you can read my post about Empire
here .) Now, I love sausages, and enjoy buying ones made with interesting ingredients like shallots, wild mushrooms, white wine and herbs – even curry. But I’d always steered away from sausages mixed with cheese products, because that seemed like a weird combination. But man oh man: the Seed to Sausage cheese-curd sausages were absolutely the best ever. I cannot wait to stock up on some!
(Seed to Sausage supplies high-end restaurants, and operates a store in
Ottawa . There’s also a retail outlet in Sharbot Lake, but after this coming long weekend it’ll be closed till the Victoria Day weekend in May 2015. I think I need to talk them into setting up shop in
Madoc or Tweed .)
Anyway, there you have my foodie report, and information on where to get great Hastings County wine and brilliant
Frontenac County
sausages. I promise that if you check them out (and support fantastic small producers into the bargain) you will not be disappointed.
Share this: Twitter Facebook Email Pinterest LinkedIn Google Like this: Like
Loading...
Posted in
Food at the Manse
|
Tagged
Campbellford ,
Empire Cheese ,
Frontenac County ,
Hastings County ,
Jean Talon Market ,
Montreal ,
Potter Settlement Winery ,
Queensborough ,
Raymond ,
Seed to Sausage ,
St. Lawrence Market ,
Sulphide ,
Toronto ,
Tweed ,
Tweed News
|
Leave a reply
Local flavours (III): beverages
Posted on
April 6, 2012
by
Katherine Sedgwick
15
Oh man, does this take me back …
Time to pick up where I left off and finish this first round of sharing what I know about distinctly local things to eat and drink in the central Hastings area. I hope I’ll find out about many more as Raymond and I spend more time there.
Wilson's Ginger Ale came from Toronto, Pure Spring from Ottawa. Both are, sadly, long gone.
So this post is about things to drink, and I’m going to start nostalgically by mentioning two soft drinks that are no longer extant:
Wilson’s Ginger Ale
and
Pure Spring Ginger Ale . Wilson’s, in the distinctive green bottle with the white lettering, was produced in Toronto, and Pure Spring in Ottawa, so neither was specifically connected to Hastings County. But both were regional – I don’t suppose you could have got either in Western Canada, or perhaps even Western Ontario – and quite popular in my youth. There seemed to be a Pure Spring push-bar on every general-store door in the area, and I bet you can still find them on some long-shuttered stores. (I am going to look.) Pure Spring made other soft drinks too, but it’s the ginger ale that I most associate with the name – perhaps because ginger ale was generally the soft drink of choice on the extremely rare occasions when our family had what we called “pop” at all.
And then there’s rye, which was very much – and I think maybe still is – the preferred liquor for the liquor-drinkers in that part of the world. I recall a phase when some rye company was attaching stickers that said “A Proud Canadian” to its bottles somehow, and it seemed liked every kid on the school bus had one or more (sometimes many) of those stickers on his or her school binders – except the Sedgwick kids, whose parents’ lips never went near strong drink.
On one of our early visits to look at the Manse, Raymond and I stayed overnight in Tweed and visited that town’s L.C.B.O. (that’s
Liquor Control Board of Ontario
for you outside-Canada readers) store, hoping to find some
wines from not-far-away Prince Edward County . Which we did; for a small liquor store, it has a good selection, and a very friendly and knowledgeable clerk who guided us. But what really struck us was the huge wall of rye. I might be exaggerating to say that more space was allotted to rye than to all other products in the store combined, but I don’t think I’m exaggerating by much. And we subsequently discovered that it’s much the same at the big
LCBO at the Quinte Mall
in Belleville and at the one in Madoc. It’s rye country, for sure. Probably partly because of the big
Corby
distillery that used to be at
Corbyville
(gee, I wonder where they got the name), which is just north of Belleville. There is a history of the distillery operation
here , on an excellent site called
ghosttownpix.com . (“This website is dedicated to all those forgotten communities, which whether due to lousy planning, impossible dreams, or rotten luck, just didn’t make it.”)
Here
is the Ontario section of the site. And here is a wonderful re-creation of the slideshow that was shown to visitors to the Corbyville plant in 1969:
As it happens, rye – especially good rye – has become a rather popular and trendy drink again, doubtless due to the
Mad Men
influence. My long-ago colleague
Beppi Crosariol , who worked with me at the
Kingston Whig-Standard
and is now the wine and spirits writer at the
Globe and Mail , has done several recent columns recommending good rye and good rye drinks, notably the classic
Manhattan . I had clipped
one of those articles , and Raymond and I were able to find most of the brands Beppi was recommending at the good old
Tweed liquor store . And I can now make a mean Manhattan – just like Beppi, who in a helpful video can show you how too,
here .
Finally, what might be the most exciting one of all: a winery in central Hastings! It’s at  Sulphide , a tiny place with a funny name a little east of Tweed (ergo very close to Queensborough), and it’s called the
Potter Settlement Winery . According to the
Harvest Hastings website , it is scheduled to open in 2013 but “already consists of 10 planted acres of vinifera, hybrid and VQA-recognized grapes.” ( VQA
stands for Vintners Quality Alliance, and it’s a Canadian regulatory and appellation system like
AOC
in France or
DOC
in Italy.)
So sometime in 2013, Raymond and I will be trying out the wares of our own local winemaker. Perhaps at our first open house at the Manse. If you are reading this, consider yourself invited.
Share this: Twitter Facebook Email Pinterest LinkedIn Google Like this: Like
Loading...
Posted in
Uncategorized
|
Tagged
Beppi Crosariol ,
Corbyville ,
Corbyville distillery ,
LCBO ,
Manhattan ,
Potter Settlement Winery ,
Pure Spring Ginger Ale ,
rye ,
Sulphide ,
VQA ,
Wilson's Ginger Ale
|
15
Replies
Search
Recent Posts
One good popcorn-ball recipe and bam! It’s Halloween.
Like the sign says: Vote ↑ !
Bonnie Hart, that is one heck of a 1960s music scrapbook!
Peace and dignity, and local care, in the autumn of life
In which a historic church joins the internet, and turkey is served
Follow Meanwhile, at the manse by email
Enter your email address to follow this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Archives
October 2015
September 2015
July 2015
June 2015
May 2015
April 2015
March 2015
February 2015
January 2015
December 2014
November 2014
October 2014
September 2014
August 2014
July 2014
June 2014
May 2014
April 2014
March 2014
February 2014
January 2014
December 2013
November 2013
October 2013
September 2013
August 2013
July 2013
June 2013
May 2013
April 2013
March 2013
February 2013
January 2013
December 2012
November 2012
October 2012
September 2012
August 2012
July 2012
June 2012
May 2012
April 2012
March 2012
February 2012
January 2012
Categories
Al Purdy
(7)
Bancroft
(1)
books
(2)
Christmas
(18)
Food at the Manse
(13)
Gardening
(7)
Journalism and News
(5)
Madoc
(4)
Madoc Township Public School
(1)
Manse-era vintage toys and games
(3)
Montreal
(1)
Music in the Manse Years (1964-1975)
(24)
North of 7
(2)
Raymond
(1)
Rock Acres Peace Festival
(10)
St. Andrew's United Church
(1)
thrift shops
(2)
TV in the Manse Years
(10)
Tweed
(1)
Uncategorized
(915)
Actinolite
Al Purdy
auctions
Avocado Green
Bancroft
Belleville
Black River
Bobbie
Bobbie's
books
Campbellford
Canadian Shield
Christmas
CJBQ
Cooper
Dad
Elaine
Eldorado
Elzevir Township
France
general stores
Haliburton County
Harvest Gold
Hastings County
Hazzards Corners
Hidden Goldmine Bakery
Highway 7
Highway 62
Historic Queensborough Day
internet
J.A.S. Keay
John
Ken
linoleum
Loyalist College
Mad Men
Madoc
Madoc Fair
Madoc Township
Madoc Township Public School
Maine
Manse Committee
maple tree
Marmora
McMurray's
Melanie
Montreal
Montreal Gazette
Mum
Ormsby
Perth
Peterborough
Port Hope
Prince Edward County
Queensborough
Queensborough Community Centre
Queensborough Pastoral Charge
Raymond
red
red truck
Rock Acres Peace Festival
Sieste
St. Andrew's United Church
Stirling
Stoco
The Country North of Belleville
The Rev. Wendell Sedgwick
Times to Remember in Elzevir Township
turquoise
Tweed
Tweed and Area Heritage Centre
Tweed News
United Church of Canada
wasps
yard sales Meta
Register
Log in
Entries
RSS
Comments
RSS
WordPress.com
Follow Meanwhile, at the Manse on WordPress.com
The Twenty Eleven Theme .
|
Blog at WordPress.com .
Meanwhile, at the Manse
Blog at WordPress.com .
The Twenty Eleven Theme .
Follow
Follow “Meanwhile, at the Manse”
Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.
Join 232 other followers
Build a website with WordPress.com
Send to Email Address
Your Name
Your Email Address
Cancel
Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
%d
bloggers like this:
Add your thoughts here... (optional)
Post to
Cancel