Loft conversions - gna carpentry
google webmaster tools
Home About Us Contact Us Gallery Project page
Typical conversion showing Velux roof light to provide natural light
A sketch through a multinail truss roof showing possible area for use as a room
A sketch showing possible extra structure when cutting out a multinal truss. 1)
Braced wall; 2) New floor joists; 3) Collar ties; 4) Extra rafters; 5) Under
purlin
Loft Conversion Info
A
loft conversion
is the process of transforming an empty
attic
space into a functional room, typically
used as a
bedroom ,
office
space, a
gym , or storage space. Loft conversions are one
of the most popular forms of home improvement in the
United Kingdom
as a result of their numerous
perceived benefits. The installation of a loft conversion is a complicated
process, and whilst it may be possible to attempt a ‘ DIY ’ loft conversion, the large amount of work
involved often results in many people choosing to contract a specialist loft
conversion company to undertake the task. [1]
Another type of loft conversion is converting non-residential spaces (most
commonly warehouses, docks, former factories or water towers) into habitable
homes. This form of loft conversion has its origins in the US. This form of loft
first became popular in the
SoHo
section of
New York City
during the 1960s. Artist created
living spaces on the upper levels of obsolete industrial buildings, sometimes
located in the heart of the city. In the pioneering period of lofts, most SoHo
buildings were not zoned as residential and the lofts were being used illegally
as living space. In 1971, New York City legalized the residential use of space
in SoHo, and loft living became popular throughout the neighborhood. [2]
Loft
living spread to other previously industrial
Manhattan
neighborhoods including
TriBeCa ,
Chelsea
and
Greenwich Village .
Costing and Prices
Each conversion has to be costed individually, obviously size, construction and function all play a part in the cost and an on site consultation is necessary to establish a final figure. We are always happy to arrange a consultation so please go to our
CONTACT US
page for further assistance
google analytics
✕