Maritere Ramírez Petisme: mayo 2010
skip to main
|
skip to sidebar
Se ha producido un error en este gadget.
Which Friend's Character is your favourite?
lunes, 3 de mayo de 2010
Friends
is an American
sitcom
created by
David Crane
and
Marta Kauffman , which ran on
NBC
from September 22, 1994 to May 6, 2004. The series revolves around a group of friends in the area of
Manhattan , New York City. The series was produced by
Bright/Kauffman/Crane Productions , in association with
Warner Bros. Television . The original executive producers were Crane, Kauffman and
Kevin Bright , with numerous others being promoted in later seasons. The series' rating throughout its run was TV-PG. Kauffman and Crane began developing
Friends
under the title
Insomnia Cafe
in November 1993. They presented the idea to Bright, with whom they had previously worked, and together they pitched a seven-page treatment of the series to NBC. After several script rewrites and changes, the series was finally named
Friends
and premiered on NBC's coveted
Thursday 8:30 pm timeslot . Filming for the series took place at
Warner Bros. Studios
in
Burbank, California
in front of a live audience. After ten seasons on the network, the series finale was promoted by NBC, and viewing parties were organized around the US. The series finale (airing on May 6, 2004) was watched by 52.5 million American viewers, making it the fourth most-watched series finale in television history. [ 1 ] Friends
received positive reviews throughout most of its run; becoming one of the most popular sitcoms of all time. The series won many awards and was nominated for 63
Primetime Emmy Awards . The series was also very successful in the ratings, consistently ranking in the top ten in the final primetime ratings. The series has made a large cultural impact [ citation needed ] . The Central Perk coffee house that had featured prominently in the series has inspired various imitations throughout the world. The series continues in syndication worldwide. All 10 seasons are also available on DVD. The spin-off series
Joey
was created to follow up with the series after the finale. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Friends
Publicado por
Maritere Ramírez
en
23:05
1 comentario:
Entradas más recientes
Entradas antiguas
Página principal
Suscribirse a:
Entradas (Atom)
Friends Bloopers.!
Tim Hendricks
Time of your Song -
Matisyahu... Enjoy!*
New Fang - TCV.. : )
What's new?..
Loading...
Se ha producido un error en este gadget.
Maritere Ramírez Petisme
Datos personales
Maritere Ramírez
Puebla, Mexico
Keep my feet on the grOund & my head in the cLouds!
Ver todo mi perfil
Funny Things to Ponder
Daily Horoscopes
Seguidores
Archivo del blog
▼
2010
(6)
▼
mayo
(1)
Friends is an American sitcom created by David Cr...
►
abril
(1)
►
marzo
(2)
►
febrero
(2)