My Cultural Landscape: Straight To Hell
My Cultural Landscape
(Copyright George Heymont, All Rights Reserved)
Saturday, January 16, 2010
Straight To Hell
As we all know, a huge literature of morality fables exists to fuel the fantasies of those who actually believe that
heaven
and
hell
exist. As a result, people can cite numerous references on what those two places look like. But what about the
O'Hare
of the spiritual world -- that curious unworldly
limbo
status where a person's
soul
waits to enter heaven or hell? Plenty of jokes exist about people waiting to get into heaven. Movies, plays, and operas have all given us some ideas about what happens when someone goes to hell. But what about the holding zone? What about that strange location where a soul must wander aimlessly until it can rest in peace? Or where it is given a chance to decide whether to move on to heaven, to hell, or go back to earth to take care of some unfinished business? Whether one traffics in
zombies
lurching across the countryside,
Avatars
trying to juice up their batteries so they can become full-fledged members of the
Na'vi , or a
sleeping beauty
hoping to be awakened from a coma by a kiss from
Prince Charming , there's a curious state of half life where the body or soul remains undefined.
Alive or dead?
Dead or undead?
Frozen in time or
cryogenically
reborn? For some people, life on earth feels worse than hell itself. All one needs to do is look at the situation on the ground in
Port- au -Prince ,
Haiti
to get some idea of how awful things can be in the
wake
of a
natural disaster . Two recently seen dramas highlight the hell that is limbo (as opposed to
Limbaugh ). The creator of each drama is deeply involved in making music. One works with a Japanese
rock band , the other is a talented
hip hop
artist. Each drama introduces the audience to wandering souls who must try to complete some personal business in order for someone else's soul to finally pass to the next step (whether that step involves
rebirth ,
reincarnation , or another form of spiritual rescue). * * * * * * * One of the more bizarre films scheduled to be shown at the upcoming
San Francisco Indie Film Fest
is
Toshiaki Toyoda's
rather scruffy effort entitled
The Blood of Rebirth . A curiously unsatisfying piece inspired by the mythical Japanese story of
Oguri Hangan ,
The Blood of Rebirth
is a cheap and dirty tale of
resurrection
and
revenge . While gay men with ball fetishes might find Toyoda's heavily tattooed villain inspiring, this movie could try anyone's patience. Set during
Japan's feudal era ,
The Blood of Rebirth
introduces the audience to
a sadistic warlord (Kiyohiko Shibukawa) who can't stop complaining about his painfully swollen
testicles . It doesn't take a genius to figure out that he is obviously suffering from some kind of
venereal disease . His very macho solution, of course, has been to
decapitate
all of the women he has screwed (with the exception of his latest conquest) so that they can't make him more miserable than he already is. Cut to a scene in which live fish are being held down on a chopping block and decapitated, with the audience left to watch each fish's body as it reflexively writhes and spasms after being severed from the fish's brain. The primitive warlord's chef waits until each fish's
spasms
slow down so that he can chop the rest of its body into large pieces that will be dumped into a boiling
cauldron . Enter the renowned masseur who has been brought to the warlord to help ease his pain. Although the warlord takes a liking to the masseur, Oguri prefers to remain a
free agent
-- a bad career move which quickly leads to his murder. Kiyohiko Shibukawa and Tatsuya Nakamura Complications ensue. Before he was slaughtered, Oguri and Princess Terute (Mayuu Kusakari) had exchanged deep glances.
Despite the fact that her lord thinks the large tattoo on her face makes her uglier than sin, Terute looked just fine to Oguri.
But now he's dead. Or is he? Cut to a scene in which Oguri meets an unearthly figure who is sitting in a cave and eating
watermelon . This man struggles to get Oguri to make up his fucking mind about whether he wants to go to heaven or hell (the script is pathetic), but Oguri has unfinished business back on earth. Terute is waiting for him with that strange tattoo on her face. So he decides to go back down to what the spirit guide describes as a place "worse than hell." Following Oguri's murder, a roving
peddler
(Hirofumi Arai),
had sold the testicle-obsessed warlord the nose of a
Tengu
(or Japanese demon), which Terute had stolen. Shortly after Oguri returns to earth as a
hungry ghost , he is noticed by a female dwarf with a bad attitude. A great deal of time is spent dragging Oguri's now
paraplegic
body through the forest. Oguri (Tatsuya Nakamura) and Terute (Mayuu Kusakari)
Oguri eventually meets up with Terute (who takes over the responsibility of dragging his tired ass around rural
Japan ). Meanwhile, the warlord and peddler are hot on Terute's trail. After Oguri drags himself out onto a pier and manages to flop his crippled body into a rowboat, Terute comes running after him --
only to be brutally slain in the river by the angry warlord and the peddler. Oguri then floats down the river in a rowboat until he comes to the the magical spring of rebirth (which looks like a hot spring filled with watery tomato juice). He climbs over its rocky border into the hot water, sinks to the bottom, and is reborn. The audience then gets to see Oguri splashing around in the water like a teenager having a angry
tantrum . Eventually, Oguri makes his way back to the warlord's cave, challenges He Who Has Blue Balls to take a whiff of the potent medicine he is boiling in a cauldron, decapitates the warlord, and then decapitates himself. The two men's heads are then seen swimming around in the boiling, bloody water as they do battle (and possibly perform a double decapitated same-sex kiss) with the help of some cheesy
CGI
scripting. Here's the back story you need to know about the making of
The Blood of Revenge : On August 24, 2005, Tashioki Toyoda was arrested and convicted on drug charges that resulted in a three-year suspended sentence. As a result, his filmmaking career nearly went down the drain. The Blood of Rebirth
was made on a minimal budget with help from his friends. Toyoda has produced records for
Twin Tail
((a guitar/violin/drum rock group) while recording the visuals used during the trio's live performances. The actor portraying Oguri (Tatsuya Nakamura) is also the drummer for Twin Tail. The score for
The Blood of Rebirth
is by Twin Tail. The Blood of Rebirth
was made very quickly, very cheaply, and looks it. Much of the acting is abysmal. There are long stretches of film that are used to supply boring visuals to accompany Twin Tail's riffs as Oguri is dragged around the woods.
Don't waste your time on this film. Here's the trailer: * * * * * * * * * Far more interesting, exciting, provocative, artistic, and worth your attention is the new production of
The Bright River: A Mass Transit Tour of the Afterlife
that recently began its run at the
Brava Center
on 24th Street. The show's website describes
The Bright River
as: "... a deep-rooted love story, a profound meditation on mass transit, and a passionate indictment of an endless
War on Terror
in the form of a hip-hop retelling of
Dante’s
Inferno
with
Tim Barsky
riffing on the
Hassidic
storytelling tradition with a live soundtrack performed by some of the best hip-hop,
jazz , experimental, and
fusion
musicians performing in the Bay Area."
First produced near the midpoint of the
Bush administration ,
The Bright River
is very much the artistic vision of Tim Barsky, a musician/composer/playwright/performer who was recently awarded a $50,000
Gerbode Emerging Playwright's Grant
for
a hip-hop and circus-based play about junkie cops, strippers, & giant puppets entitled
Trackin A Box .
Barsky is also co-founder and lead organizer for
The Vowel Movement
(the oldest
beatboxing
crew on the West Coast), a beatboxing instructor in San Francisco's
juvenile detention facilities , and artistic director of
City Circus . In his relatively short career, Barsky has studied with Hassidic folklorist and archivist
Fishel Bresler , performed as a fire
juggler
in
Dublin, Ireland , been a street outreach worker & emergency youth advocate for the state health department of
Rhode Island , and performed as a
flute -beatboxer with more than a dozen
b-boy/b-girl
(breakdancing) crews. Having graduated from
Brown University
with a degree in
Islamic
&
Judaic
religious studies, Tim has also studied at the
Berklee College of Music
and worked as a producer for the
Providence Black Repertory Company .
Tim Barsky performing in
The Bright River What Barsky has created in
The Bright River
is a stunningly original piece of passionate contemporary musical theatre performed by an ensemble that can blow the roof off any theatre. Whether you think of
The Bright River
as a hip hop/beatbox/jazz opera, an evening of intensely political yet highly romantic anti-war theatre, or a two-hour journey through the
underworld
and
afterlife , one thing is for sure: If you don't leave the theatre in awe of Barsky's creativity and Carlos Aguirre's performance as a humanbeat box, you're probably one of the walking dead. Tim Barsky, Carlos Aguirre and Alex Kelly Much of Barsky's piece is performed in the style of bodkin (a traditional Hassidic street theater style that was popular hundreds of years ago in the streets of a Jewish ghetto as well as in the
Lower East Side
of
Manhattan
during the early part of the 20th century). Stage director Jessica Heidt (Artistic Director of
Climate Theater ) describes
The Bright River
as "the perfect example of what Climate does best – acting as a unique bridge between worlds both artistically and socially – traditional theater and the club scene, traditional Jewish storytelling and hip hop culture; Climate past and Climate present.” Carlos Aguirre, Tim Barsky, Alex Kelly, and Kevin Carnes
This is actually the show's third
incarnation , with a new unit set designed by the ever-amazing
Melpomene Katakalos
and costumes by
Rachel Lyra Hospodar .
The Bright River
takes place in a bus station in
Purgatory , where a
fixer
named Quick functions as a liaison between the living and the dead.
Among his tasks is reuniting the spirit of a soldier who left
South Berkeley
and was killed in
Iraq
with that of his girlfriend --
a young red-headed woman named
Calliope
who suffered from
multiple sclerosis , had made her peace with death, and was eager to find her dead boyfriend's spirit so that she could comfort him in the afterlife. As Barsky explains in his artist's statement: "I started working on this project at one of the lowest points in my life, when it seemed like the world was literally collapsing. The country was swinging so far to the right I almost felt as if I didn't recognize it anymore. We had a puppet for a president. And all around me, I felt like I was watching my friends, peers, and collaborators get pushed to the brink, and in some cases past it. A lot of things happened: I saw my first
drive-by shooting . I got arrested for filming the
Oakland police
flee the scene after beating my neighbor until she went into a seizure. One of the best musicians I knew started shooting
amphetamines
and lost his mind. America sent an army of poor people to Iraq to kill other poor people. I started to feel like I was living in a looking-glass world -- as if everything was upside down, as if night had become day, and day had become night. I felt like I was living in a dream. And I started to wonder if maybe the whole thing wasn't breaking down, not just our world, but the world of the dead as well. The show took off. More than 8,000 people saw it, and more than two dozen Bay Area artists were employed by it. For about a year and a half, it was all I did. Meanwhile, the war continued, but there was at least the sense of being a part of a movement to stop it. And then, it was over. We hit a wall and, to this day, I can't exactly tell you what it was composed of. But the sense of having ended up back where you started, no further along and half-broken by the process, was breathtaking. People would ask what was happening with the show and I wouldn't know what to tell them. At a certain point, they stopped asking. And at some point I stopped asking too; asking about the war, about the world, about the loss all around me. Maybe we all did, I can't say. It got a bit much to bear. Not much has changed. The war is still going. Tim Barsky with the cast and crew of
The Bright River I feel as if I’ve spent the past five years watching the best minds of my generation be destroyed by sadness. And perhaps
Plato
is wrong. Perhaps even the dead have yet to see the end of war. But the city of the dead still lives in my heart. And the people who live in it are closer to me than they have ever been. And with them, the sense that as long as we speak about them, the dead will never die. That as long as we speak out against injustice, that truth is never lost. And the belief that grief may in fact be joy waiting for us to believe. I still feel this story as strongly as anything I have ever felt. The years haven't been kind. But this much I know is true: the stories we tell matter. And this one is true, even if it never happens. It's about a boy from South Berkeley who dies in Iraq, and the girl from North Berkeley who follows after him. It's about their struggles to breathe, live, and love. It's about a fixer named Quick who tries to find them, a man who can't remember his own death, and who knows every story but his own. It's about a
raven
born in a prison that falls in love with flying. Mostly, it's a story about the reality of our surroundings, about the cabs, buses, and subways that form the stage on which our lives and deaths are lived. It's a story about
mass transit , and the people on it. I guess, really, it's about what I know: Love. Death. War. Life. Transit." While Barsky receives ample musical support from
Kevin Carnes
on percussion and
Alex Kelly
on cello, one cannot underestimate the contribution of Carlos Aguirre (a/k/a Infinite), whose performance as a vocal percussionist anchors much of the show. Dedicated to preserving the voice of youth and the culture of hip hop, Aguirre has used his vocal percussion workshops to help
ESL
students improve
diction
and clarity, taught a class in "Literacy through Poetry and Songwriting" at two correctional facilities in the Bay Area, and currently works with
Lyrical Minded
in a variety of group homes and schools in San Francisco. A member of
Felonious , Aguirre has performed with
The Roots ,
Erykah Badu ,
Black Eyed Peas,
Mary J. Blige ,
Blackalicious ,
Jurassic Five ,
LL Cool J , and
George Clinton . Together with Barsky, he is a member of The Vowel Movement (an all beatbox collective
dedicated to bringing vocal percussion as an art form to the forefront of musical expression). He is, without doubt, a musical and theatrical force to be reckoned with. If you don't believe me, just watch him performing a duet with
John Kloss
(an accomplished
tap dancer
and the founder of
Stepology ) in the following video clip: The Bright River
continues through February 27th at the Brava Center. You can -- and should -- order tickets
here . This is money well spent on local artists.
Posted by
geoheymont
at
12:23 AM
1 comment:
SEXY
said...
Necessity is the mother of invention. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
January 18, 2010 at 3:34 AM
Post a Comment
Newer Post
Older Post
Home
Subscribe to:
Post Comments (Atom)
There was an error in this gadget
MAKE A DONATION!
George Heymont
Subscribe Now!
Posts
Atom
Posts
Comments
Atom
Comments
Subscribe via email
Enter your email address: Delivered by
FeedBurner
ME AND MY TOWN
About The Author
Tales of Tessi Tura
Miscellaneous Articles
Profiles and Interviews
Alert & Oriented
A Dying Art Form
Dictation Therapy For Doctors
See My Work on Huffington Post
SEARCH THE INTERNET
Enter your search terms
Submit search form
A DESPERATE GRASP ON REALITY
Raw Story
Daily Kos
AmericaBlog
AmericaBlog Gay
Salon.com
Huffington Post
Blog Archive
October 2015
(8)
September 2015
(9)
August 2015
(6)
July 2015
(12)
June 2015
(11)
May 2015
(8)
April 2015
(7)
March 2015
(9)
February 2015
(8)
January 2015
(6)
December 2014
(7)
November 2014
(11)
October 2014
(8)
September 2014
(9)
August 2014
(11)
July 2014
(13)
June 2014
(13)
May 2014
(11)
April 2014
(10)
March 2014
(8)
February 2014
(7)
January 2014
(8)
December 2013
(8)
November 2013
(10)
October 2013
(9)
September 2013
(14)
August 2013
(7)
July 2013
(11)
June 2013
(19)
May 2013
(9)
April 2013
(12)
March 2013
(19)
February 2013
(8)
January 2013
(11)
December 2012
(9)
November 2012
(13)
October 2012
(8)
September 2012
(16)
August 2012
(10)
July 2012
(16)
June 2012
(17)
May 2012
(17)
April 2012
(11)
March 2012
(16)
February 2012
(14)
January 2012
(13)
December 2011
(11)
November 2011
(12)
October 2011
(17)
September 2011
(18)
August 2011
(16)
July 2011
(11)
June 2011
(19)
May 2011
(15)
April 2011
(15)
March 2011
(16)
February 2011
(13)
January 2011
(11)
December 2010
(10)
November 2010
(16)
October 2010
(18)
September 2010
(17)
August 2010
(17)
July 2010
(13)
June 2010
(16)
May 2010
(14)
April 2010
(14)
March 2010
(20)
February 2010
(11)
January 2010
(12)
December 2009
(11)
November 2009
(17)
October 2009
(21)
September 2009
(16)
August 2009
(12)
July 2009
(15)
June 2009
(16)
May 2009
(16)
April 2009
(9)
March 2009
(19)
February 2009
(18)
January 2009
(17)
December 2008
(12)
November 2008
(14)
October 2008
(16)
September 2008
(16)
August 2008
(16)
July 2008
(19)
June 2008
(10)
December 2007
(153)
November 2007
(125)
There was an error in this gadget