Bhamarchitect's Blog | exploring built/unbuilt Birmingham | Page 7
Bhamarchitect's Blog
exploring built/unbuilt Birmingham
Skip to content
Home About Bhamarchitect
←
Older posts
Newer posts
→
Design Review August 8
Posted on
August 6, 2012
|
2 comments
Here is this Wednesday’s agenda for the August 8  Design Review Committee  meeting. Remember, the meetings are open to the public and take place at 7:30 AM at Auburn Urban Studio, 3rd Floor of Young and Vann Building, corner of 18th Street North and First Avenue downtown.
I.          Call to Order:   Minutes of the July 25, 2012 meeting.
II.
Name :  Ms. Lissy Frese (Cohen Carnaggio Reynolds)               DELETED
Site Address :  1031 43 rd
Place South
District : Forest Park Local Historic
Requesting approval for :  Demolition and New Construction
III.
Name :  Mr. Peter Maynard                                                                   DELETED
Site Address :  1210 33 rd
Street North
District : Norwood Local Historic
Requesting approval for :  Window replacement, new porch floor, and painting
IV.
Name : Mr. Brad Johnson (Chick-fil-a)
Site Address : 1913 5 th
Avenue North
District : Birmingham Green
Requesting approval for :  Outdoor Café
V.
Name:    Mr. Ryan Meon
Site Address:
3901 10 th
Avenue South
District:
Forest Park Local Historic
Requesting approval for:
Addition (partially screened deck) to Existing House
VI.
Name : Mr. Berry Hearn (Live Design Group)
Site Address : 2808 7 th
Avenue, South (297)
District :  Lakeview
Requesting approval for : Sign Standards
VII.
Name:   Mr. Hank Long (Henry Sprott Long & Associates)
Site Address:
937 42 nd
Street South
District:
Forest Park Local Historic
Requesting approval for:
Demolition and New Construction
VIII.
Name:
Steve Looney
Site Address:
744 Lomb Avenue
District:
Lomb Avenue
Requesting approval for:
Sign
IX.
Name :  Ms. Linda Coleman
Site Address :  906 2 nd
Street
District :  Pratt
Requesting approval for :  Demolition
X.
Name:   Willie Oliver
Site Address:
116 Sheridan Road
District:
Pratt
Requesting approval for:
Door and window replacement
XI.
Name : Mr. Jeff Thomas (Barber Companies)
Site Address : 608 23 rd
Street South
District :  Midtown
Requesting approval for :  Paint
XII.
Name : Mr. Dayne Nelson (Sign and Graphics Inc.)
Site Address : 2170 Highland Avenue, South (Alamerica Bank)
District :  Five Points South
Requesting approval for :  Signage
2 Comments
Posted in
Uncategorized
Tagged
Design Review Committee
Game of checkers
Posted on
August 2, 2012
|
7 comments
Will the net effect be…
This morning the
Birmingham Business Journal reported
that
Cadence Bank
will move its headquarters from the historic
John Hand Building
(corner of First Avenue North and 20th Street downtown) a few blocks north to the
Concord Center
(Third Avenue North and Richard Arrington Blvd, above). The bank plans to lease about 55,000 SF of space which is being vacated by the law firm
Adams and Reese –which in turn
is renting space in the Regions Harbert Plaza
another few blocks north. No word yet on what happens to the empty space in the John Hand; one can only assume the actual retail bank facility will stay on the ground floor there, although this was unconfirmed.
…greater than zero?
Part of the story here is what happens in any soft real estate market–landlords are offering great deals, and businesses are taking advantage by swapping spaces. But the rest of the story is all-too-familiar downtown: existing local businesses exchanging each other’s spaces, without enough new businesses moving into the mix. It sometimes feels like a static checker board with a fixed set of pieces to play with. We need more than that for a growing, truly vibrant city center (John Hand Building, above).
Recycling
The
Pizitz Building
redevelopment (rendering, above) was recently poised to go forward with a lead commercial tenant, the  Baker Donelson
law firm. The deal became stalled, and then unravelled for complex reasons; but the point is that if Baker had moved, they would have left a large gap at the
Wells Fargo Tower
a few blocks away–with no obvious replacement. Most other proposed Pizitz tenants were also already in the city center.
This is not to say moving, and “swapping places” within a neighborhood is bad. It will always happen. We’ve just got to do a better job of growing the field–so that one building’s gain isn’t another building’s loss.
[thanks to
Bayer Properties
for the rendering]
7 Comments
Posted in
Uncategorized
Tagged
Adams and Reese ,
Baker Donelson ,
Cadence Bank ,
Concord Center ,
John Hand Building ,
Pizitiz Building ,
Regions Harbert Plaza
Big box, meet big city
Posted on
July 31, 2012
|
20 comments
State Street adapts
Many Chicagoans gasped twice in the last five years–initially when famed local department store
Carson Pirie Scott
announced it was closing its downtown State Street flagship after over a century, and again once discount retailer
Target  announced it would lease the bottom two floors of the redeveloped historic structure (designed by
Louis Sullivan
in 1899, above).
Not your normal Target experience
The new store, which opened last week, is an example of a growing trend of big-box retailers opening new urban locations, as a saturated suburbia no longer offers opportunities for growth, and and inner-city populations are seen as the last under-served frontier (note in the interior shot from the Target above, both
Sears
and
TJ Maxx
are visible across the street). Rather than imposing suburban building models onto dense downtown environments, these retailers are inventing new urban models that are smaller, more flexible, and more compatible with pedestrian-friendly environments (see this
recent article from the New York Times
on the subject). The Target on State Street has been getting some
good reviews
for its sensitivity to the historic architecture, its well-designed storefronts, and the modest proportions of its famous logo.
Hey, urbanites deserve blue-light specials too
As Birmingham strives to entice more retail to the city center and adjacent neighborhoods,  retailers are increasingly primed to work with cities using solid urban design principles, rather than insisting on older, more suburban paradigms (above, the
Kmart  off of
Astor Place in Manhattan , in the former
Wanamaker’s
Department Store). In a place like downtown Manhattan (or to a lesser degree downtown Chicago), the entry of big-box retailers has been controversial due to the preexisting network of independent retailers in those neighborhoods. In Birmingham, that network doesn’t widely exist, making the entry of new retailers a much more promising possibility–especially if we insist on the kind of good design for which, well, Target has made a name for itself.
Ground floor/basement of
Pizitz Building , perhaps? As long as we can still fit in the
V. Richard’s
branch…
[thanks to
New York Times
for Target,
chicagoist
for Target interior, and
locationresearch
for Kmart]
20 Comments
Posted in
Uncategorized
Tagged
Astor Place ,
Big-box retail ,
Carson Pirie Scott ,
Chicago ,
Kmart ,
Louis Sullivan ,
State Street ,
Target ,
Wanamaker's
Delivering the message (2)
Posted on
July 25, 2012
|
12 comments
At long last
At today’s
Design Review Committee
meeting, unanimous approval was given to a new branding concept for the “micro-neighborhood” of Second Avenue North between 25th Street and Richard Arrington Blvd (logo above, designed by Shannon Harris of
Big Communications ). After
writing in this blog
about the lack of good neighborhood branding in this City last year, your author teamed up with a group of local 2nd Avenue merchants, residents, and supporters to put together a plan for branding this burgeoning urban place. After much work, and neighborhood presentations to garner support, we now have a plan. And it’s exciting for several reasons.
Now I know where I am
First, good branding will reinforce this place’s identity for residents, merchants, and visitors. Easy-to-spot banner signage (above) coupled with a website (coming soon!), brochures, and other items will make 2nd Avenue simpler to find, navigate–and market to prospective new users. Awareness is raised, and visibility heightened.
That most urban of street furnishings
Second, it introduces fresh design to the public realm. Certain items in the public right-of-way (like benches in the lovely 2nd Avenue “butternut” hue, above) help cohere the street and extend the brand. Final locations will be determined–there will be enough for consistency, but not so much to overwhelm the eclectic, natural power of the street.
We need ’em
Third, we love bikes. Bike racks (above) identify the street (and by extension the greater neighborhood) as bike-friendly. Currently in front of
Urban Standard
alone, the one bike rack is often double-loaded, with others tied to whatever other pole may be available. Our bikes deserve more respect.
Most importantly, we hope this small 4-block effort will serve as a catalyst for a comprehensive branding program endorsed by the City. Nothing would be better than for 2nd Avenue to link logically with other branded neighborhoods. It’s high time we all agree that the current legal neighborhood structure–while important politically–is very different from the reality of how urban places emerge and develop (and often cross over legal boundaries). Most every other city has realized this distinction between political geography and the more complex fabric of urban places.
This is currently a total volunteer effort (graciously assisted by
Operation New Birmingham ). The next step is to raise funds (through donations, grants, and other sources) to determine the total scope of Phase One. More information will be coming soon. Until then, get ready 2nd Avenue: you’ve only seen the beginning.
12 Comments
Posted in
Uncategorized
Tagged
Big Communications ,
Branding ,
Butternut ,
Design Review Committee ,
Operation New Birmingham ,
Second Avenue North
Checking in (4)
Posted on
July 24, 2012
|
10 comments
Grande Dame
The
Thomas Jefferson Hotel
(pictured above, corner of 17th Street North and 2nd Avenue) has yet another chance for salvation due to the formation of a non-profit dedicated to stabilizing and restoring the 1929 structure to its former glory. Thomas Jefferson Tower, Inc.  plans to acquire the building, stabilize it–and then work hard to put a viable restoration plan together.
This hotel opened within months of the
Great Depression , and is a symbol of the last days of heady 1920’s optimism that had engulfed Birmingham real estate. It’s height and adornment testify to the belief that the City’s growth would extend inexorably westward; the Depression put a stop to such growth, and the hotel suffered somewhat from its relative isolation (in comparison to the
Tutwiler Hotel , for instance).
Needs some work
The mix of larger main levels (with retail, restaurant, and ballrooms) and smaller upper floor plates means a mixed-use development with hotel, meeting, living, and retail/restaurant spaces could work well. The location is much more desirable than even a few years ago: the
Phoenix Building
lofts is across the street,
Innovation Depot
a block away,
Railroad Park
a few blocks south, and planning for bike lanes/revitalized
Civil Rights district / bike-pedestrian bridge
all within a few minutes’ walk. This building is also very prominent on the near skyline from the new
Baron’s baseball park
under construction. Yes, it will be a lot of work (George Wallace Suite, above)—but  a lot of other cities would kill to have such a fine piece of architecture to restore. They don’t build them like this anymore.
A certain elegance
Please consider supporting this effort by signing up for the non-profit’s
website , and following their
twitter feed . The time is right to help make this project happen!
[thanks to
dystopos
for the exterior pic;
istvan s.
for the suite;
naamanfletcher
for the detail]
10 Comments
Posted in
Uncategorized
Tagged
Civil Rights District ,
Innovation Depot ,
Phoenix Building ,
Regions Field ,
Thomas Jefferson Hotel
Design review July 25
Posted on
July 24, 2012
|
Leave a comment
Here is this Wednesday’s agenda for the July  25  Design Review Committee  meeting. Remember, the meetings are open to the public and take place at 7:30 AM at Auburn Urban Studio, 3rd Floor of Young and Vann Building, corner of 18th Street North and First Avenue downtown.
I.
Call to Order:   Minutes of the July 25, 2012 meeting.
II.
Name : Ms. Teri Bates (ProSigns Inc.)
Site Address : 1927 1 st
Avenue, North (PNC Bank)
District : Birmingham Green
Requesting approval for :  Signage
III.
Name : Mr. Robert Emerick (ONB)
Site Address:
2 nd
Avenue, North Commercial Revitalization District
District:
2 nd
Avenue, North
Requesting approval for:
Intersections banners; benches; bike racks
IV.
Name : Willie Oliver (Willie C. Oliver Architect)
Site Address :  116 Sheridan Road
District :  Pratt
Requesting approval for :  Door and window replacement
V.
Name:    Mr. David Rawson (Gonzalez- Strength & Associates)
Site Address:
2006 Avenue I, Ensley (Dollar General)
District:
Ensley
Requesting approval for:
New Construction
VI .
Name:
Mr. David Brandt (Fravert Services)
Site Address:
2924 3 rd
Avenue, South (HopCity)
District:
Lakeview
Requesting approval for:
Signs
VII.   Name :  Ms. Lara Watson (Reliable Signs Services)
Site Address : 120 18 th
Street, South, Railroad Square
District : Midtown
Requesting approval for : Signage
Leave a comment
Posted in
Uncategorized
More options
Posted on
July 23, 2012
|
6 comments
More foot traffic coming
The
Paramount
yogurt shop at the corner of 20th Street North and 2nd Avenue (above in an earlier incarnation) has started serving a full lunch menu in addition to their usual yogurt and sweets. Downtown needs more dining options across the spectrum, from lunch to dinner. We’re a lot better off than 10 years ago, but still have a long way to go.
A mix of high and low
A block down 2nd avenue at Richard Arrington Blvd. North, the former
Tony’s Terrific hot dog stand
(above) is being renovated into–according to the workmen–a new eating establishment, but we can’t confirm that. Many of us miss the hot dogs and chicken sandwiches that Tony Ippolito served here since 1980, following in a long tradition of (mainly Greek-American owned) hot dog stands that flourished around downtown. Today only a handful are left. Certainly the ornate
Florentine Building
deserves a new tenant so we’ll keep an eye out.
It’s either Subway, or Subway
Finally, over on Richard Arrington Blvd. North in the heart of the
BJCC , the above scene was observed the other weekend: literally a line out the door of hungry lunch-goers dying to get into
Subway
sandwich shop. Why this overwhelming preference for Subway? It’s the only restaurant within easy walking distance of the convention halls (save those within the
Sheraton Hotel
itself, but none of those face the street or have a public presence whatsoever). This is part of the argument for the
Entertainment District
currently under construction, which would offer a variety of restaurants and other amenities adjacent to the convention area (although no leasing announcements have yet been made). As has been noted in these pages before, ideally the tenants would not just attract conventioneers, but also local residents and casual visitors: the mix needs to be right.
In the meantime, we hear rumors of more restaurateurs scouting for space downtown. We’re optimistic that the food (and foodie) landscape will expand considerably in the next few years, so hang tight.
[thanks to
Birmingham Public Library
for the Paramount photo]
6 Comments
Posted in
Uncategorized
Tagged
BJCC ,
Entertainment District ,
Florentine Building ,
Paramount ,
Subway ,
Tony Ippolito ,
Tony's Terrific
←
Older posts
Newer posts
→
Top Posts A ghostly reminder disappears
About Bhamarchitect
Container creativity
Entertaining
Re-imagine
New Urbanism (1)
4-Alarm Shock
Mixed bag
Blogroll
1731 Blog Avenue
Bhamwiki
bhmblog
Magic City Made
Next American City
not a peach
Operation New Birmingham
Railroad Park
Regional Planning Commission
The Comeback Town
The Heaviest Corner
The Terminal
Trattoria Centrale
Urban Standard
urbanophile
Wade on Birmingham
Weld for Birmingham
Email Subscription
Enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Join 2,784 other followers
Meta
Register
Log in
Entries
RSS
Comments
RSS
WordPress.com
Bhamsarchitect’s Blog RSS - Posts RSS - Comments
Blog at WordPress.com .
The Coraline Theme .
Bhamarchitect's Blog
Create a free website or blog at WordPress.com .
The Coraline Theme .
Follow
Follow “Bhamarchitect's Blog”
Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.
Join 2,784 other followers
Build a website with WordPress.com
Add your thoughts here... (optional)
Post to
Cancel