Triborough Bridge
Toggle navigation
About
Destinations
Blog
Get the App
Labs
Login / Register
Log in
Register
Triborough Bridge
bridge
Photo by: en:Hell Gate Bridge
- View license
Destinations
New York
New York City
Triborough Bridge
Save place
Edit
Revise
Triborough Bridge
Triborough Bridge
bridge
in
New York City ,
New York
from
Wikipedia
by
en:Hell Gate Bridge
by-sa/3.0
The
Triborough Bridge , known officially as the
Robert F. Kennedy Bridge
since 2008, and sometimes referred to as the
RFK Triborough Bridge , is a complex of three separate bridges in
New York City , United States, carrying Interstate 278 and New York State Route 900G. Spanning the Harlem River, the
Bronx Kill , and the Hell Gate the bridges connect the boroughs of
Manhattan ,
Queens , and the Bronx via Randalls and Wards Islands, which are joined by landfill.
The bridge is owned and operated by the MTA Bridges and Tunnels, part of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority.
History
from
Wikipedia
by
Dave Frieder
/by-sa/3.0
Plans for connecting Manhattan, Queens and the Bronx were first announced by Edward A. Byrne, chief engineer of the
New York City
Department of Plant and Structures, in 1916. While such a bridge complex's construction had long been recommended by local officials, the project failed to receive funding until 1925, when the city appropriated money for surveys, test borings and structural plans.
Construction began on Black Friday in 1929, but soon the Triborough project's outlook began to look bleak.
Othmar Ammann , who had collapsed the original design's two-deck roadway into one, requiring lighter towers, and thus, lighter piers, saving $10 million on the towers alone, was enlisted again to help guide the project. Using New Deal money, it was resurrected in the early 1930s by
Robert Moses , who created the Triborough Bridge Authority to fund, build and operate it. The completed structure was opened to traffic on July 11, 1936.
The total cost of the bridge was more than $60 million, one of the largest public works projects of the Great Depression, more expensive even than the Hoover Dam. The structure used concrete from factories from Maine to Mississippi. To make the formwork for pouring the concrete, a whole forest on the Pacific Coast was cut down.
The American Society of Civil Engineers designated the Triborough Bridge Project as a National Historic Civil Engineering Landmark in 1986. Motorists were first able to pay with E-ZPass in lanes for automatic coin machines at the Randalls Island toll plazas on August 21, 1996.
At some point in the past, a sign on the bridge informed travelers, "In event of attack, drive off bridge,"
New York Times
columnist William Safire wrote in 2008. The "somewhat macabre sign", he wrote, must have "drawn a wry smile from millions of motorists."
On November 19, 2008, the Triborough Bridge was officially renamed after Robert F. Kennedy at the request of the Kennedy family. Forty years had passed since the New York United States Senator and former U.S. Attorney General had been assassinated during a 1968 presidential bid. Many traffic and news reports have come to commonly refer to the bridge as the "RFK Triborough Bridge" to avoid confusion among residents long accustomed to its original name.
On May 5, 2010, the
New York City Police Department
closed the bridge and sent in the bomb squad to investigate a U-Haul truck from which a man had reportedly fled. This investigation came days after a failed attempt at a car bombing in
Times Square . A short time later, the NYPD deemed this incident nonthreatening and reopened the bridge.
Usage
from
Wikipedia
by
Jim.henderson at en.wikipedia
by-sa/3.0
The toll revenues from the Triborough Bridge pay for a portion of the public transit subsidy for the New York City Transit Authority and the commuter railroads. The bridge carries approximately 200,000 vehicles per day.
The bridge has sidewalks in all three legs where the TBTA officially requires bicyclists to walk their bicycles across due to safety concerns. However, the signs stating this requirement have been usually ignored by bicyclists, while the
New York City
Government has recommended that the TBTA should reassess this kind of bicycling ban. Stairs on the 2km Queens leg impede handicapped access. The Queens stairway along the southern side was demolished at the beginning of the 21st century, thus isolating that walkway, but the ramp of the Wards Island end of the walkway along the northern side was improved in 2007. The two sidewalks of the Bronx span are connected to only one ramp at the Randalls Island end.
Tolls
Beginning on March 22, 2015, cash tolls on the bridge will be $8.00 per car or $3.25 per motorcycle. EZPass users with transponders issued by the New York E‑ZPass Customer Service Center will pay $5.54 per car or $2.41 per motorcycle.
Public transportation
The Triborough Bridge carries the bus routes operated by MTA New York City Transit, and nine express bus routes operated by the MTA Bus Company: .
Statistics
East River suspension bridge (I-278)
Span crosses the East River at the Hell Gate between Queens and Wards Island
Connects to Grand Central Parkway and Brooklyn–Queens Expressway
Length of main span: 1,380ft
Length of each side span: 700ft
Length, anchorage to anchorage: 2,780ft
Width of bridge: 98ft
Number of traffic lanes: 8 lanes
Height of towers above mean high water: 315ft
Clearance at center above mean high water: 143ft
Number of sidewalks: 1
Harlem River lift bridge (NY 900G)
Span crosses the Harlem River between Manhattan and Randalls Islands
Connects to Harlem River Drive, FDR Drive, and 125th Street
Length of main lift-truss span: 310ft
Length of each side truss span: 230ft
Length, anchorage to anchorage: 770ft
Height of towers: 210ft
Clearance of lift span above mean high water: 55ft
Clearance of lift span in raised position: 135ft
Number of traffic lanes: 6 lanes
Number of sidewalks: 2 (1 on each side)
Bronx Kill crossing (I-278)
Span crosses the
Bronx Kill
between The Bronx and Randalls Island
Connects to Major Deegan Expressway and Bruckner Expressway
Length of main truss span: 383ft
Length of approach truss span: 1,217ft
Length, anchorage to anchorage: 1,600ft
Clearance of truss span above mean high water: 55ft
Number of traffic lanes: 8 lanes
Number of sidewalks: 2
Source
Wikipedia
Have you been here?
Share your experience with the community
Add a Tip
sources
Wikipedia
× Close
Add a tip for Triborough Bridge
Close
Submit
Download Triposo
App Store
Google Play
Where to find us
feedback @ triposo.com
Share
Tweet
×
Get recommendations
Your friends can share their recommendations at the following link.
Post to wall
Tweet
E-Mail
Close
×
Login
Login
Password
Login
Login with Facebook
Forgot your password?
Signup for Triposo
Cancel