Amy Lee | L
- - - - - If you want to get a man’s heart, you definitely cannot give it to them. Your gaze, your heart, or your touch, You definitely cannot give it to them.
Skip to navigation
Skip to main content
Skip to primary sidebar
Skip to secondary sidebar
Skip to footer
L
– – – – – If you want to get a man’s heart, you definitely cannot give it to them. Your gaze, your heart, or your touch, You definitely cannot give it to them.
Don't cry, If you keep doing it, it will become a habit. Same with lying & running away; if you keep doing it, It will become a habit . Don’t bow your head to anyone. Don’t kneel for anyone. It will become a habit. Once it becomes a habit, it will be hard to fix. There was someone who always said this to me. I kept repeating his words and one day it became my habit.
Home Japan Japanese Artists [Aidorus] Korea Me (“L Drinks T”) ^^Diary Entry L.Lawliet
Featured:
L.Lawliet
Blog Archives
♫My Immortal [Song] + ♥Loveletter [Series]
♫[ MY IMMORTAL]♫
is a song by
American
rock
band
Evanescence .
released on
12.8.03
as the third single from their debut studio album
Fallen .
The song was entirely
written by former guitarist
Ben Moody , with the exception of the bridge, which was later added by
Amy Lee , and it was produced by Dave Fortman.
It was included on their
EP
releases
Evanescence
and
Mystary
and on the
demo CD
Origin . The
Origin
version of the song was later included on their first studio album
Fallen . The single version of the song was called ‘band version’ because of the additional band performing the bridge and final chorus of the song.
The
piano rock
ballad is written in slow and free
tempo
with 80 beats per minu te .  Critica l reception towards the song were positive with critics complimenting its piano melody. The song became Evanescence’s second highest charting single, peaking within the top ten of more than ten countries. “My Immortal” topped the charts in Canada and Greece. It song also peaked at number one on the
Billboard
Adult Pop Songs chart. However, it failed to top the
Billboard
Hot 100 where it peaked at number 7. The single was certified Gold status by the RIAA on February 17, 2009 and Platinum by the ARIA.
An accompanying
music video
directed by David Mould was filmed entirely in
black-and-white
in the Gothic Quarter
Barri Gòtic
of
Barcelona
on October 10, 2003. The video shows Lee sitting and singing on various location, but never touching the ground. Shots of Moody are also shown but he is never together with his band or Lee. Two months after the filming of the video he left the band. In addition to that Lee said that the video looked great because it was connected with Moody’s separation.
BACKGROUND
The song was written by Ben Moody and produced by Dave Fortman; it was the fourth song to be written for Evanescence.[4] .The orchestral parts in the song were arranged by the composer Graeme Revell.[5] Similar to several other songs written by Moody, the lyrics are based on a short story he had previously written.[4]
…[ When Evanescence guitarist Ben Moody calls Mix from the road, his band is setting up at a Milwaukee venue called The Rave.
“I’m walking around a haunted building at the moment,”
he reports.
“I saw a shadowy figure out of the corner of my eye. We’ve been investigating for about an hour now.”
Evidently, The Rave is located within an old Masonic building called The Eagles Club that also houses three other venues, including a ballroom on the roof. Boarded up in the basement is a large old pool that Moody half-jokingly deems
“the epitome of evil.”
It is appropriate that Evanescence are headlining at this supposedly haunted facility, considering that they perform a gothic-inflected strain of heavy rock with a European flavor, augmented at times by strings and choir, and influenced by the likes of Nine Inch Nails, Portishead and Type O Negative. Their theatrical music has taken them from their hometown of Little Rock, Ark. to around the globe, thanks in part to the inclusion of two songs in the hit movie,Daredevil. Propelled by the grandiose and moody single “Bring Me to Life,” which features a dramatic trade-off between singer Amy Lee and 12 Stones frontman Paul McCoy, the group’s Platinum debut album,Fallen (Wind-Up), immediately cracked the top echelon of the Billboardcharts and has stayed there ever since. Evanescence is currently in the midst of a headlining tour that will last through the end of 2003. For a new band in a weak economy, that’s definitely impressive.
Recorded and mixed between late August and early December of last year, Fallen is the culmination of eight years of passion and dedication for Moody and Lee. The duo has been writing and playing music together since they were 14 years old; early on, they even envisioned the string section and choir that permeate many songs on their debut. While the twosome have been pegged as “nu-goth” by Kerrang!magazine, they choose not to compartmentalize themselves.
“We didn’t really try to be goth or pop or anything,”
says Moody.
“Honestly, we just write what we want to hear, and we like catchy music.”
While it contains electronic elements indigenous to many of the band’s influences, Fallen maintains an organic feeling.
“I didn’t want it to sound too fabricated,”
comments Moody.
“I love electronics and I love digital manipulation, but I wanted to first establish us as a real rock band. We’re actually playing all of those parts: The strings are real, the choirs are real, the piano is real.”
“I think one of the most positive features about [the album] is that it’s like watching a movie from front to back,”
remarks Fallen producer Dave Fortman, who acknowledges that many radio stations were at first resistant to a rock band with a (gasp!) female singer.
“Some areas waited and waited and waited until the proof was really there. KROQ L.A. was one of them. Within the first three days of them trying the song, it was already Top Five for requests on the phones. People were freaking out on it.”
Louisiana-based Fortman, who has worked with 12 Stones, Boysetsfire and Superjoint Ritual, was impressed with Evanescence when he heard the initial demos, and his admiration of the group grew during the recording process.
“One of the greatest parts of this record was the band’s vision and their dream about it being theatrical and like a movie soundtrack,”
says Fortman.
“I think that gives it a special emotion, really. Every song takes you through this journey.”
Recording work for Fallen started at Ocean Studios in Burbank, Calif., where most of “Bring Me to Life” was recorded for the Daredevil soundtrack, prior to full album production. For that tune, Jay Baumgardner banged out the mix at his studio, NRG Recording Studios in North Hollywood, on an SSL 9000 J.
Fallen is an album built on overdubs. Drums were tracked at Ocean Studios, with Josh Freese playing to a click, stereo guitars and scratch vocals on select songs.
“If it was more of a rock ‘n’ roll band like the Black Crowes, you definitely want to set them all up and [record live] and try and make everything on there magic,”
explains Fortman.
“But for something that has the depth of production that Evanescence does, it’s definitely more of an overdub situation. This type of record should be done to where it sounds larger than life.”
In recording Freese’s drums, Fortman used, on the advice of Ocean’s engineer Dean Nelson, C12As for overheads.
“That was a real big discovery,”
says Fortman.
“I thought those were some of the sweetest-sounding overheads ever. And a trick I stole from Jay Baumgardner was using [Audio-Technica] ATM25s on toms. They’re awesome. It’s like magic. That through an 80 Series Neve pre, and I could almost just put the fader up and call it a day.”
On the rest of the kit, Fortman used a D112 on the inside of the kick drum, a U47 on the outside, plus an NS-10speaker as an outside mic, an idea he also got from Nelson. The producer ran 414s on the ride cymbal and hi-hat.
“I can’t remember what the room mics were,”
the producer admits,
“but it was real basic: about 15 feet out in front of the kick, right about ear level, maybe a little lower.”
Fortman recorded the drums onto 2-inch tape on a Studer machine and then bounced the parts into Pro Tools, the medium for most of the album.
The guitars for Fallen were cut at Mad Dog Studios, also in Burbank. Moody says that Baumgardner lent him gear, including his Les Paul and Gibson SG guitars, Marshall and Mesa/Boogie heads, and an old Mesa/Boogie cabinet.
“It was an old cabinet that was tried-and-true on rock records,”
says Moody.
“It was a no-brainer to use it. I know it was used on Papa Roach and, I think, Staind. The heads were just the JCM 800, which was all souped up and modified, [and] a Mesa/Boogie Dual Rectifier Trem-o-Verb.”
For the first time in his producing career, Fortman recorded the guitars through two different amps: one side being Marshall and the other Mesa/Boogie.
“I doubted it forever,”
he confesses,
“and then I decided during the Evanescence recording that I would actually A-B it and see if there was really that much of a difference.”
He recorded the Marshall amp for both left and right sides, EQ’ing it to sound heavier than usual.
“Then I A-B’d it by using a Mesa on the left side. The differences tonally and with the different frequencies in the two different amps really do create a larger stereo feel. It was amazing to hear.”
The producer recorded the guitars with two Shure 57s, running them through Neve 1081 preamps straight to Pro Tools.
Bassist Francis DiCosmo, who had a
“really off-the-wall amp,”
according to Fortman, was recorded with a U67 set back six or seven inches from his cabinet and through an Avalon U5 DI/pre into Pro Tools.
When it came to recording Lee’s vocals at NRG, the group tested out three mics: the Telefunken Elam 251E, the AKG C-12 and the regular Neumann U47 tube mic. The U47 won.
“That one seemed to have the classic presence,”
reports Fortman.
“It sounded really good on Amy’s voice. I love having that type of luxury, where you can record something from each mic, have everybody sit down and take time to choose.”
The vocal chain was a U47 through 1081s Neve preamps to an 1176 Blackface.
Most of the piano on the album was also recorded at NRG. Fortman used a pair of U67s spaced approximately three to four feet apart, one for the high strings and one for the low strings, facing down between eight inches to a foot above the strings. The piano parts were performed by David Hodges, the other main performer on the album beside Moody and Lee. Hodges also played a variety of keyboards recorded directly through Avalon DIs into Pro Tools.
Throughout the recording process, Fortman worked on various Neve consoles, which he says were integral to the overall sound:
“Probably the most important part of getting that ‘sound of strength’ is the 80 Series Neve, which, to this day, is still impressive to my ears. They all have small differences, but especially at NRG, everything you listen to and everything you record just has this bigger-than-life quality. That’s definitely my favorite place to record. Jay just has the gnarliest monitoring system ever.”
Adding to the album’s grand feel and gothic flavor was the inclusion of strings on a few tracks, notably
“Bring Me to Life”
and
“Imaginary.”
A 22-piece string section was recorded in Seattle by Mark Curry. They were later mixed at the Newman Scoring Stage and Bolero Studios, both in Los Angeles. The orchestra parts were arranged by Hodges and David Campbell, except for
“My Immortal,”
which was done by veteran Hollywood composer Graeme Revell.
“I forget which Sony condensers were for the main overheads, but they were done in just a regular spaced pair, probably eight feet in front of the entire string section, then probably six feet apart, maybe up to 10 feet,”
says Fortman.
“In the back, we used U87s on lower strings, possibly U47 back on the basses. There were close mics for each section and a stereo pair for the overall. There were around 12 tracks. At mix, I mostly used the stereo pair, especially during dense sections of songs. However, the intro to
‘Imaginary’
is a section where all of the mics are in.”
Following the recording of the strings, the final piece of the aural puzzle was recording the Millennium Choir at NRG. Fortman ran a stereo pair of U67s to capture their voices, and later the 12-member ensemble was doubled or tripled to give them a larger sound.
“During the bridge of
‘Imaginary,’
there are probably 70-plus people performing on the song at that moment,”
explains Fortman.
“There’s a choir that’s been doubled, there is a string orchestra with 22 players doubled, then you add all of the bandmembers, and it’s huge. That section has so much depth to it. There’s no purpose to look at it as a live band at that point.”
For Moody, to finally hear real orchestration to Evanescence songs was a dream come true.
“It was surreal and amazing,”
declares the guitarist, who originally used keyboards on his demos in place of real strings.
“It was just awesome to hear that, for once, done right. Amy and I were both a little teary.”
Adds Fortman:
“Just to hear that happen to the music in the room, it was an emotional experience. It was amazing. You could just feel the energy in the room.”
Following the multiphase recording process, Fortman spent nearly two weeks mixing Fallen on a Neve 88R console at Conway Recording Studios in North Hollywood.
“I was impressed,”
he says.
“They say it’s got the low end and the stickiness of an 80 Series Neve, but with the brightness of an SSL 9000. That’s exactly what it sounds like. It’s really compatible to any of the high-end SSLs.”
Following mixing, the album was mastered by Ted Jensen at Sterling Sound in New York City.
“I was surprised by how smoothly it went and how much fun we had,”
Fortman states.
“I’ve always read that a lot of friction makes a great record, and I left California thinking, ‘God, was that too easy?’ There was really no drama. It was a fun record to make.”
… http://mixonline.com/recording/interviews/audio_evanescence_enduring_sound/ ]
According to Amy Lee, the song was “Ben [Moody]’s song.”
… [
“I couldn’t have written this album four years ago,”
admits Amy Lee, as she takes a breather from recording a Live @ VH1.comsession.
“I couldn’t have played it four years ago. I’ve grown a lot as a musician and a singer. I’m challenging myself a lot more.”
Lee has a lot to live up to. Evanescence’s debut Fallen sold 14 million copies worldwide, but it came at a cost. First co-founder Ben Moody left the band to work with Avril Lavigne. Then replacement guitarist Terry Balsamo of Cold suffered a near-fatal stroke. And months before the release of The Open Door, bassist William Boyd left the band. But don’t ask Amy about drama-she leaves that for the music
…- http://www.vh1.com/news/articles/1540914/story.jhtml ] .
… Accordingto Moody, the song is about
“a spirit staying with you after its death and haunting you until you actually wish that the spirit were gone because it won’t leave you alone.”
Moody also stated in the Fallen booklet that he dedicated the song to his grandfather, Bill Holcomb.
It was originally recorded in 1997 as an outtake from the extended play (EP), Evanescence, which solely featured Amy Lee’s acoustic vocals and a piano, and slightly different lyrics. It was later re-recorded for the band’s first demo CD, Origin, which contains a slightly rearranged piano and lyrics, including the bridge added by Lee. It was again re-recorded for the band’s debut studio album, Fallen, and is featured on the EP called Mystary (2003), and is much similar to the band version. However, Wind-up Records preferred the Origin version, which was used instead with the addition of strings.It was re-recorded and released as a single in the second half of 2003, and is often referred to as the ‘band version,’ because of the additional band performing the bridge and final chorus of the song. The later pressings of Fallen contain the single version of “My Immortal” as a hidden track.A live version of the song from Le Zénith, Paris is featured on their first live album, Anywhere but Home.
COMPOSITION
According to sheet music published by
Alfred Music Publishing
on the website Musicnotes.com, “My Immortal” is an
alternative metal ,
gothic rock
and
post-grunge
song set in a
common time
and performed in a slow and free
tempo
of 80 beats per minute. It is written in the key of
A major
and Lee’s vocal range for the song runs from the note
A 3
to
C♯5 . [14]
Title:
My Immortal
Performed by:
Evanescence
Instruments:
Voice, range: A3-C#5
Guitar
Piano
Scorings:
Piano/Vocal/Guitar
Singer Pro
Original Published Key:
A Major
http://www.musicnotes.com/sheetmusic/mtdVPE.asp?ppn=MN0044842
According to Jon Dolan from the magazine
Entertainment Weekly , “My Immortal” is a
piano rock
ballad. [1]
MUSIC REVIEW
The Open Door (2006)
Evanescence
Reviewed by  Jon Dolan  | Oct 09, 2006
Is Amy Lee the voice of her generation? It’s a tough gig in our fragmented age, but the Evanescence singer has something to offer every niche in the market. She’s a sweet Southern girl with a freaky Goth side, a church-camp nerd who can shriek like a metal messiah, the frontwoman of a band that mixes in hip-hop, industrial, and art rock. She’s everywhere you need to be if you never feel at home. On 2003’s major-label debut Fallen, Lee and her band from Little Rock, Ark., went six times platinum, reaching far beyond their original Christian-rock fans. But things haven’t been rosy since they went supersize. Guitarist Ben Moody left mid-tour, guitarist Terry Balsamo suffered a stroke, and the band fell out with its longtime management.
Lee, 24 and now living in Manhattan, has drawn energy from all this weirdness, and the band’s follow-up, The Open Door, is more personal and, by accessing a deeper emotional palette, maybe even more universal. Fallen’s hits — the heraldic rap-rocker ”Bring Me Back to Life” and the piano basher ”My Immortal” — ingeniously mixed the spiritual and secular. They could be odes to the Almighty or the boy two desks over who just got his first Hot Topic hair-dye kit.
The songs of pain and redemption on The Open Door, however, dwell mostly in the realm of earthly romantic peril. The music is still the same crush of chunka-chunka riffs, moody electronic churn, and Valhalla-bound metal slam, all in service of Lee’s strikingly operatic singing. But Lee has evolved. ”It’s true we’re all a little insane/But it’s so clear now that I’m unchained,” she sings on the opener, ”Sweet Sacrifice,” a bruising breakup lament that turns into an anthem of freedom. Soon, on ”Weight of the World,” she’s back under her unspecified tormentor’s spell, demanding ”If you love me then let go of me.” Addicted to love, Lee explores addiction itself on the roiling ”Call Me When You’re Sober” and tortured Queensrÿche-style pain strummer ”Lithium.”
Later on, things get downright steamy. ”Lose Control” is almost sacrilegious, finding childlike release in sin: ”Mary had a lamb/His eyes were black as coals/If we play very quiet, my lamb/Mary never has to know.” The even crazier ”Snow White Queen” gets inside the mind of a male predator, like a hard-rock take on Tori Amos’ ”Me and a Gun.” Unfortunately, just as Lee starts digging into fascinating psychological territory, she pulls back for a couple of ponderous ballads. But the deceptively soft ”Good Enough” flirts again with the dark side, offering ”Drink up sweet decadence/I can’t say no to you” and striking a final note of cathartic badness. It’s the new Amy Lee — wilder urges, deeper pains, a mess of new voices to call her own.
It was also described as a “goth-meets pop” song along with “Bring Me to Life” and “Going Under”. [15]
Evanescence singer takes Christian band in new direction
By MICHAEL D. CLARK Copyright 2004 Houston Chronicle
Aug. 11, 2004, 9:32AM
Evanescence lead singer Amy Lee feels like she’s had an entire career in pop music, and it hasn’t even been 18 months since Fallen, the group’s multiplatinum debut, was released.
She has fought with the Christian rock industry; won a Grammy; become a star; and cut ties with Ben Moody, the group’s co-founder, all while selling 5 million albums.
As the band prepares for the last seven dates of the final and biggest tour in support of Fallen, Lee is ready to move on to the next chapter.
Evanescence performs Friday at the Cynthia Woods Mitchell Pavilion. As fans clamor to hear hit goth-meets-pop tracks like Going Under, My Immortal, and Bring Me to Life, Lee is already thinking about ideas for a new album.
“We’ve all been itching,”
Lee says about her bandmates, guitarists John LeCompt and Terry Balsamo, drummer Rocky Gray and bassist William Boyd.
“Everyone is just ready to buckle down and write. That has been a lot of what’s fueled this (last) tour.”
Lee is not trying to distance herself from the experiences, good and bad, that have come with Fallen.
Few musicians get the thrill of selling 10 million copies of an album and watching it spend 43 weeks in the Top 10 of Billboard’s Top 200 Albums charts. Evanescence even upset über-rapper 50 Cent for the best new artist Grammy in February.
While it would be understandable if Lee grew weary of explaining her decisions to disavow Christian radio and to split with Moody, she’ll answer the questions.
“I used to be so weak and vulnerable and impressionable,”
Lee says.
“I’m such a stronger person than I was two years ago. It’s a huge thing.”
Evanescence’s drama began last summer while the group’s debut single, Bring Me to Life, was sailing to the top of the pop and Christian music charts, a surprise since Christian rock bands usually have trouble crossing over to other audiences.
Lee and Moody had met at a church camp near their Little Rock, Ark., home. Couple that story with the fact 12 Stone’s Paul McCoy, a definite Christian rocker, was Lee’s duet partner on Bring Me to Life and the Christian label started to stick.
But not in the eyes of Evanescence. Lee and Moody staunchly opposed being labeled Christian rockers, and their albums disappeared from Christian book and record stores. Still, the storm of that controversy was small compared to Moody’s departure months later.
Tensions between the two became apparent last November when the guitarist left the group in the middle of a European tour. He never returned, and his spot was filled by guitarist Balsamo who came from the band Cold.
“What I’ve learned from all this is that, in a bad situation, you can’t wait around for somebody to save you,”
Lee says.
“I finally realized that the only person who can get you out is you. I woke up.”
The band hasn’t begun writing the new album in earnest yet, but Lee has hinted that romanticized vampire images like those in Anne Rice novels have been of interest lately. One thing is for sure: The Evanescence lead singer who will be onstage from now on will have a much more steely resolve than the one who made Fallen.
Evanescence with Seether, Three Days Grace and Breaking Benjamin, 6:30 p.m. today at the Cynthia Woods Mitchell Pavilion, 2005 Lake Robbins. Tickets: $19.50-$35. Call 713-629-3700.
Read more:  http://www.chron.com/disp/story.mpl/front/2721284.html#ixzz1VN1t9lR7
Jon Bream from
The Providence Journal
called the song a gothic rock ballad. [2]
Evanescence’s Amy Lee is ‘feeling really, really good’
01:00 AM EDT on Monday, April 2, 2007
By Jon Bream
McClatchy Newspapers
Amy Lee Evanescence performs at the Dunkin’ Donuts center in Providence on Wednesday.
This may surprise you: Goth-rock goddess Amy Lee was not swathed in black when she phoned.
“I’m wearing a Cookie Monster T-shirt and a white skirt,”
the voice and visionary of Evanescence said.
The pale, raven-haired Lee — who took her black-clad pain to Grammy-winning heights on the blockbuster Fallen CD with a Meat Loaf-like mash-up of menacing metal, operatic grandeur and pretty balladry — is still wearing her emotions on her sleeve. While Fallen was about wallowing in misery about a not-nice boyfriend, Evanescence’s newest CD, The Open Door, is more about:
“I’m miserable and what do I have to do to work this out.”
In other words, hard rock’s biggest drama queen has changed. She really has.
“I’m not gothic and I’m not depressed,”
said the 24-year-old singer and pianist.
“My music is my place of a lot of heavy emotions. Having that, I can be a pretty happy and healthy person in normal life. I’ve definitely seen some dark days. But haven’t we all? I feel like I haven’t had a harder or more miserable life than anyone else.”
Well, she certainly has had a lot of strife in her life of late. In 2003, after Evanescence scored with the rap-rock “Bring Me to Life” and the gothic ballad “My Immortal,” Lee’s collaborator and best friend, guitarist Ben Moody, quit the band in mid-tour. Then as Lee and her band were working on Evanescence’s second album, she faced one crisis after another:
• She broke up with her boyfriend, Shaun Morgan of Seether.
• Terry Balsamo, who’d replaced Moody as Evanescence’s guitarist and co-songwriter, had a debilitating stroke last fall while recording.
• Lee fired and sued Evanescence’s manager for, among other allegations, sexual harassment.
• The band’s bassist, Will Boyd, Lee’s friend since junior high, quit after the Door CD was recorded.
All the turmoil drove Lee to therapy, where she found it comforting to be in a situation where she wasn’t being judged — either by fans who post messages on the Internet or by bandmates, managers and record-label execs.
“I could speak freely and not feel that anything I said was wrong,” said Lee, the leader and youngest member of Evanescence, whose debut sold 6.5 million copies in the United States and 15 million worldwide. “That’s carried over to my life now. I care a lot less about what people think about me.”
Not only has therapy helped, but so has moving from Los Angeles to New York.
“I feel a lot safer, as weird as that may sound,” said Lee, whose apartment is part of a converted 19th-century church with stained-glass windows and a marble bathtub. “I’m not ever really alone. People are really real here.”
But how real is the Amy Lee we see in Evanescence? She has cultivated a goth/glam, princess of darkness image that suggests a young Priscilla Presley made over by Tim Burton.
“She’s dramatic — in her music, her style and her personality,” said Spin associate editor Melissa Maerz. “She’s confident, ambitious and savvy both about her image and the business — and how to manipulate it.”
Indeed, Lee understands the image game.
“I don’t wear black all the time, that’s for sure,”
she said.
“It’s what I need to be to represent the sound of the music. In my normal day, I’m just the other side of me.”
For fun, she plays the grand piano in her New York place, often making up music or polishing her classical chops. Or she’ll go to a street fair and
“find a gyro or corn dog and shop for $2 bracelets.”
Lee started writing poetry about eternity and loneliness at age 10. The death four years earlier of her 3-year-old sister
“will always be a part of who I am,”
she told Spin.
As a child, Lee moved around because her father was a radio DJ. At 13, she arrived in Little Rock, Ark., met Moody at a church camp and they became musical collaborators.
Evanescence began in 1998 as a Christian rock band and, three years later, signed with Wind Up, the label that also gave the world Creed. She and Moody moved to Los Angeles, where they wrote and recorded Fallen.
She hasn’t talked to Moody since they received their Grammys for best new artist in February 2004, four months after he quit during a European tour. But she did listen to a song he co-wrote for Kelly Clarkson.
“It’s kind of what we all would have expected; that he would try to make music for pop stars in the commercial world, ” she said.
“That was what a lot of our fights were about — commerciality.”
One comforting factor for Lee is her new boyfriend. Not only is he not a musician, but he’s a 28-year-old therapist who is, not surprisingly, a good listener, she says. He inspired the last song she wrote for the CD, the closing ballad “Good Enough.”
“It’s the best representation of where I am now,”
she said.
“After all the challenges and struggles, the constant push-and-pull of what I was writing for the rest of the album, I felt clean. I felt like I had actually purged everything out of me that I had to. I got a chance to start over with all that I’ve learned. (“Good Enough”) came from feeling really, really good.”
This may not surprise you:
“It’s my first writing from a really positive place. That’s a new thing. I usually feel I have to be fighting something to write.”
http://www.projo.com/music/content/lb_Amy_Lee_Evanescence_MUSIC_04-02-07_2Q2BQO0.21f3a3e.html …]
“My Immortal” is a song of pain and despair caused by the loss of a family member or very close friend and how it drove her to the edge of insanity. [16]
… Reader Review: Fallen
Greg Coughlin gives us his take on Evanescence’s debut album.
July 10, 2003
When asked what musical genre she would place her band in, Evanescence’s lead vocalist Amy Lee said, “We’re definitely a rock band.” What she should have said was that they can’t be placed into a specific category because their debut album, Fallen , defies all the music norms out there today.
While not the greatest band on the market instrumentally, lead guitarist Ben Moody does quite a nice job of adding to the eerie lyrics created by vocalist Amy Lee. Backed by Josh Freese on drums, Francesco DiCosmo on bass, and David Hodges on piano/keyboard,  Evanescence  easily creates a beautiful sound together. However, the real star of this album is Lee’s heavenly voice.
Not as metal as Chester Bennington of Linkin Park fame, yet much softer and mysterious than that of Gwen Stefani of No Doubt, the angelic Ms. Lee creates perfectly the feelings of pain and suffering in “Hello,” to the haunting obsession of lost love in “Taking Over Me.” It is the sound of her amazing voice that keeps this band from mediocrity and being just one more, easily overlooked, rock group to fill the shelves.
From the pounding chords of “Tourniquet” to the soft-spoken pain and anguish of “Hello”, each track on Fallen is wonderfully unique and inspires emotions in the listener that have not been felt for so long in the musical world.
“Going Under” is a driven rock song about a woman trying to break free from another person’s control. Hearing Lee exclaim, “I won’t be broken again,” invokes a feeling much like viewing an epic battle, and the tide has just turned in your favor.
“Bring Me To Life” is a piano ballad fueled into a rock song by the explosive sound of Moody’s guitar in this piece. Here, Lee calls for someone to “Save me from the nothing I’ve become,” and not desert her now that she’s finally found what she’s missing. “Everybody’s Fool” is almost an attack on all the popular, idolized people we meet throughout our lives. Lee declares at the end of this song, “You’re not real and you can’t save me / Somehow now you’re everybody’s fool.”
“My Immortal” is a song of pain and despair caused by the loss of a family member or very close friend and how it drove her to the edge of insanity. Lee expresses the feelings, “Though you’re still with me / I’ve been alone all along.” “Haunted” is a powerful piece of perseverance and how, despite being held back, Lee “…won’t let you pull me down.”
“Tourniquet” is one of the most powerful tracks on this album. It follows a suicidal person’s thoughts as they lay dying, “…pouring crimson regret and betrayal.” Fearing the fate of their immortal soul, this person prays, “My god, my tourniquet / Return to me salvation.”
“Imaginary” speaks of a dream world of paper flowers, candy clouds, and a purple sky which this person uses to escape the
“…rampant chaos-your reality.”
The haunting
“Taking Over Me”
is a track about lost love and obsession, in which the person is willing to
“Give up everything just to find you.”
“Hello”
is easily the most chilling, heart-wrenching song on Fallen. It tells about a child who loses its mother and creating this false reality to live in. However, as the child grows up, its mind beckons to be freed of this un-reality, but cannot. Lee haunts the back of your mind whispering,
“Hello, I’m the lie living for you so you can hide, don’t cry.”
“My Last Breath”
is a haunting piece about a woman dying in the arms of her love. As Lee reassures her love that she’s not afraid, she calls out later in the song, “ Say good night / Don’t be afraid / Calling me, calling me as you fade to black.”
I personally view
“Whisper”
as a continuation from
“My Last Breath.”
Following that woman’s consciousness as she fades into the darkness, she prays to God, “Catch me as I fall / Say you’re here and it’s all over now.”
This band certainly possesses one of the finest sounds out on the market at this point in time. While the word evanescence itself is defined as a gradual fading, Moody and Lee seem poised to stay on the market for quite some time.
– Greg Coughlin
http://music.ign.com/articles/428/428165p1.html  …]
The lyrics of the song refer to a spirit that haunts the memory of a grieving loved one. In the song, Lee expresses her feelings through the line, “Though you’re still with me / I’ve been alone all along.”
CRITICAL RECEPTION
In his review on their second studio album, Alex Nunn of
musicOMH
criticized the songs from
The Open Door , stating that the news songs showed how much the band “has fallen” since the song “My Immortal” from
Fallen .He also showed incredulity that the “angelic-vocalled woman who wrote the moving/emotive/whatever My Immortal” could “churn out such dross as Call Me When You’re Sober.” Colette Claire of
The Gauntlet
compared “ Lithium ” (2007) with “My Immortal”, saying that the former had the same fashion as the latter, just in a crazier,
Tori Amos
way.    Jorn van Schaïk of
Sputnikmusic
called “My Immortal” a piano-driven song and praised the album version of the song.   Kirk Miller of
Rolling Stone
said that “‘My Immortal’ lets Lee wail about her personal demons over simple piano and some symphonic dressings — it’s a power ballad that
P.O.D.
and Tori Amos fans could both appreciate.” [20]
Bill Lamb of
About.com
put the song at 61 on his list of
Top 100 Pop Songs of 2004 . Adrien Begrand of
PopMatters
said that in “My Immortal”, Lee is “doing her McLachlan/Tori Amos schtick”.Richard Harrington of
The Washington Post
called “My Immortal” a “majestic [song]” that helped the band win a Grammy Award. Chris Harris of
Rolling Stone
called it a “song that’s become something of an
Alanis Morissette -like battle
hymn
for her Goth disciples over the last few years.”
CHART PERFORMANCE
The song is considerably the band’s second most successful single of all time, generally peaking within the top 20 of more than 10 countries internationally. It is the band’s second highest charting song in the
United States , peaking within the top 10 of the
Billboard
Hot 100
and
Pop 100
at numbers 7 and 2 respectively. It has peaked at number 19 on the
Adult Contemporary
chart as well. It managed to top the charts of
Canada ,
Greece
and
Billboard
Adult Pop Songs
in the United States. The song also helped
Fallen
to move from number 9 to number 3 on the
Billboard
200
chart, selling another 69.000 copies.”My Immortal” has been listed for 307 weeks in 17 different charts.Its highest entry was number 4 on the
Australian Singles Chart . It was
certified
Gold by the
Recording Industry Association of America
(RIAA) on February 17, 2009, selling more than 500,000 copies. The single also received Platinum certification by the
Australian Recording Industry Association
(ARIA). In 2005 the band was nominated for
Grammy Award
in the category
Best Pop Performance by a Duo or Group with Vocals
for “My Immortal”.
MUSIC VIDEO
A music video directed by David Mould was filmed entirely in
black-and-white
in the Gothic Quarter ( Barri Gòtic ) of
Barcelona
on October 10, 2003. It was released two months after Ben Moody’s departure from the band. Lee described the place of the filming:
“We did it in a cool, old area of town.[…] We shot some of it at this scenic point, and there was a rooftop where you could see Barcelona below. It was really neat.”
The video features the band version of the song. Lee said that the band wanted to film a video for the
Fallen
version of the song,
“The label was stuck on the demo and wouldn’t let us use the version we really wanted.[…] We fought back and forth about it and finally we gave in, but we were all so angry about it.” According to Jon Wiederhorn from
MTV News , the shots of the video are evocative and artistic, resembling a cross between a foreign film and a Chanel advertisement.In an interview with the British magazine
Rock Sound , Lee described the concept behind the video:
“You know what? When you see the video it’s really amazing. Obviously we filmed it before this [Ben Moody’s departure] happened and it’s amazing irony, how much it makes sense. We’re all separated and wandering the streets looking like it’s the day after a funeral, with Ben in a suit and bare feet, and I’m never touching the ground. I’m sitting on a phone booth or lying on a car, to hint that I’m dead, that I’m singing from the dead. It’s all about separation. It’s almost like the director knew what was going to happen, but he can’t have known. It’s just one of those fate things.”
The music video for “My Immortal” begins with Lee next to a
fountain . Her legs and arms are covered with
bandage
, and she puts them in the water . She’s wearing a long white dress.
While she walks around the fountain, behind her are shown children jumping on a
skipping rope
and playing
soccer . Shots of Moody follow, who appears to be sullen and withdrawn. He is wearing a
suit
and his feet are bare. His shoulders sag and his head slumps forward as he delicately plays piano, and later he picks up his jacket as if he’s about to leave. When the bridge starts, the band is shot performing in one room while Moody is in another, with only his piano. Throughout the video, Lee is never filmed on ground level. She walks along the ledge of a fountain, sits in a tree and sings lying on top of a building. She also lies atop
scaffolding
and on the hood of a car surrounded with leaves.
The video for the song was nominated in the category for
Best Rock Video
at the
2004 MTV Video Music Awards .
LIVE PERFORMANCE
The song is heavily praised by fans, and is included within most of the band’s live performances due to its success. Evanescence also performed the song at the
Billboard
Music Awards .The band performed the song on August 13, 2003 in
Chicago
during their
Nintendo Fusion Tour . According to Blair R. Fischer from
MTV News
the song was the most memorable track. During the perfomrance Lee appeared alone onstage and, “with grace and beauty, played piano while she crooned the delicate, heartfelt ballad”. “My Immortal” was performed during their performance in
Wantagh, New York
on July 23, 2004. During the performance the crowd started to sing the song and they started to wave their mobiles and
cigarette lighters .
Other performances of the song included those in
Hartford
on April 4, 2007; at the
Pacific Coliseum
on January 18, 2007; in
Saltair
on October 25.
DRESS STORY
Evanescence also performed the song at the
Webster Hall
in
Manhattan ,
New York City
in September, 2003. “My Immortal” was the closing song of the concert, and Lee performed it after asking the f ans
“Just promise not to fall asleep.”  During the performance, she wore an
Alice in Wonderland
dress covered with scrawled words, including the words “Dirty, Useless, Psycho and Slut.”
She explained that there was a story behind the dress. The last time she had come to New York, she had met a D.J. from the radio station
K-Rock , who had made what she described as horrible comments about exactly how much pleasure he had derived from the picture of her face on the album cover. She had felt too ashamed to say anything, she went on, so she decided to respond through the dress, which represented something innocent that’s been tainted.
The band also played the song live at their secret
New York
gig which took place on November 4, 2009.
MEDIA USAGE
“My Immortal” was featured on the soundtrack
Daredevil: The Album
from the movie
Daredevil
(2003) along with “ Bring Me to Life “.The song was also used in the first episode “ No Such Thing as Vampires ” of the American series
Moonlight . “My Immortal” was played at the funeral of Rifleman Peter Aldridge, the 250th British soldier to die in
Afghanistan , on January 20, 2010.
CREDITS AND PERSONNEL
Credits are adapted from
Fallen
liner notes.
Ben Moody
–
writing ,
producing ,
guitars ,
percussion
Amy Lee
– writing,
piano ,
keyboards ,
vocals
Dave Fortman
– producing
Francesco DiCosmo –
bass guitar
David Hodges
–
piano ,
keyboards , string arrangements
David Campbell
– additional string arrangements
Graeme Revell
– string arrangements,
orchestral
conduction
TRACK LISTING
CD-Single (Released December 8, 2003)
“My Immortal” (Band Version) – 4:33
“My Immortal” (Album Version) – 4:24
CD-Maxi Single (Released December 8, 2003)
“My Immortal” (Band Version) – 4:33
“My Immortal” (Album Version) – 4:24
“Haunted” (Live from Sessions @ Aol) – 3:08
“My Immortal” (Live from Cologne) – 4:15
Promo – CD-Maxi Single (2003)
“My Immortal” (Band Version / No Strings) – 4:33
“My Immortal” (Band Version / Guitars Down) – 4:33
“My Immortal” (Album Version) – 4:24
CHARTS AND CERTIFICATIONS
Chart (2003-2004)
Peak
position
Austria ( Ö3 Austria Top 75 )
11
Belgium ( Ultratop 50
Flanders)
5
Belgium ( Ultratop 40
Wallonia)
9
Netherlands ( Mega Single Top 100 )
5
Germany ( Media Control AG )
5
Ireland ( IRMA )
20
Switzerland ( Schweizer Hitparade )
7
UK Singles ( The Official Charts Company )
7
Australia ( ARIA )
4
Canadian Singles Chart
1
Denmark ( Tracklisten )
7
Finland ( Suomen virallinen lista )
9
France ( SNEP )
11
Greece ( IFPI Greece )
1
Italy ( FIMI )
3
New Zealand ( RIANZ )
2
Norway ( VG-lista )
2
Sweden ( Sverigetopplistan )
9
US
Billboard
Hot 100
7
US
Pop Songs
( Billboard )
2
US
Adult Pop Songs
( Billboard )
1
US
Adult Contemporary
( Billboard )
19
Chart (2006)
Peak
position
US
Digital Songs
( Billboard )
43
Chart (2011)
Peak
position
UK Rock Chart ( The Official Charts Company )
16
Year-end charts
Chart (2004)
Position
Swiss Singles Chart
30
Decade-end charts
Chart (2000-2009)
Position
US Adult Pop Songs
48
Certifications
Country
Certification
ARIA
Platinum
RIAA
G
CHARTS PRECESSION AND SUCCESSION
Preceded by “ Hey Ya! ” by
OutKast
Canadian Singles Chart
number-one single
January 31, 2004 – February 7, 2004
Succeeded by
“ Hey Ya! ” by
OutKast
Preceded by
“ Someday ” by
Nickelback
U.S.
Billboard
Adult Pop Songs
number-one single
March 27, 2004 – April 17, 2004
Succeeded by
“ This Love ” by
Maroon 5
My Immortal Piano Sheet
My Immortal Piano Sheet [2]
My Immortal lyrics
Songwriters:  Hodges, David; Lee, Amy; Moody, Ben;
I’m so tired of being here, suppressed by all my childish fears
And if you have to leave, I wish that you would just leave
Your presence still lingers here and it won’t leave me alone
These wounds won’t seem to heal, this pain is just too real
There’s just too much that time cannot erase
When you cried, I’d wipe away all of your tears
When you’d scream, I’d fight away all of your fears
And I held your hand through all of these years
But you still have all of me
You used to captivate me by your resonating light
Now, I’m bound by the life you left behind
Your face it haunts my once pleasant dreams
Your voice it chased away all the sanity in me
These wounds won’t seem to heal, this pain is just too real
There’s just too much that time cannot erase
When you cried, I’d wipe away all of your tears
When you’d scream, I’d fight away all of your fears
And I held your hand through all of these years
But you still have all of me
I’ve tried so hard to tell myself that you’re gone
But though you’re still with me, I’ve been alone all along
When you cried, I’d wipe away all of your tears
When you’d scream, I’d fight away all of your fears
And I held your hand through all of these years
But you still have all of me, me, me
[ From:
http://www.elyrics.net/read/e/evanescence-lyrics/my-immortal-lyrics.html
]
35.689487
139.691706
Rate this: Share this: Like this: Like
Loading...
Posted on
7.4.11
|
Aside
A bitter taste in your mouth that would leave you longing for sweets.”◄
Questions?
Questions?
Select Month
September 2011  (6)
August 2011  (35)
◄ Douzo Youroushiku
Search for:
Sangatsu Kokonaka
October 2015
W
T
F
S
S
M
T
« Sep
1 2 3 4 5 6
7 8 9 10 11 12 13
14 15 16 17 18 19 20
21 22 23 24 25 26 27
28 29 30 31
“I just can’t stand it when someone’s cell phone rings when I’m talking.”
►Fragments of Thoughts
Anime Screencaps
(25)
↑Planetarium Place♥♥→
(3)
♠Korean Drama [SYNOPSIS]
(2)
♥Korean Endless Love Series Collection♥
(5)
♪ Japanese Music [SONGS]♪
(1)
♪ Korean OST's [SONGS]♪
(2)
Uncategorized
(3)
I HATE LOSE ↕◄ Qoute
Anime Screencaps
Hunter X Hunter
Gon
Hisoka
Killua
Toukyou Majin
Hyuu Tatsuma
Death Note
Death
♪ Japanese Music [SONGS]♪
♠Korean Drama [SYNOPSIS]
♥Korean Endless Love Series Collection♥
Winter Sonata
Summer Scent
Stairway To Heaven
Love Letter
♪ Korean OST’s [SONGS]♪
My Immortal
Korea
Japan
Me (“L Drinks T”) ^^Diary Entry
Anime Screencaps
Uncategorized
↑Planetarium Place♥♥→
♠Korean Drama [SYNOPSIS]
♥Korean Endless Love Series Collection♥
♪ Japanese Music [SONGS]♪
♪ Korean OST's [SONGS]♪
“I’ll fall in love with you?”
Enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Ex: lawliet_tea@rocketmail.com
“I think right now, we’re even in how we’re closed the distance between us.”
--(L)
Join 4 other followers
Blog Stats
14,834 hits
Like it ☺ or Love It ♥
Like it ☺ or Love It ♥
L_drinks_Tea Error: Twitter did not respond. Please wait a few minutes and refresh this page. Blogroll
WordPress Planet
0
Learn WordPress.com
0
Get Inspired
0
WordPress.com News
0
Discuss
0
Get Support
0
Get Polling
0
Recent Comments
Popular Posts
Archives
Tags
Categories
party collar blue rhinestone I'll right away grab your rss feed as I can not in finding your email subscription link or newslette
Pamala R. Bawa What's Happening i am new to this, I stumbled upon this I have discovered It absolutely helpful and
Daine H. Emms I know this site presents quality based content and additional material, is there any other site whi
Elisa P. Shoat Very nice post. I just stumbled upon your blog and wished to say that I've truly enjoyed surfing aro
Stepanie L. Schug Hi there! I could have sworn I've been to this site before but after going through a few of the post
Walter You could definitely see your enthusiasm within the work you write. The arena hopes for even more pa
Sharon We are a group of volunteers and starting a new scheme in our community. Your website offered us wit
Leonel R Sweet blog! I found it while surfing around on Yahoo News. Do you have any suggestions on how to get
♫My Immortal [Song] + ♥Loveletter [Series]
(7)
2000♥Autumn Tale [Series] SYNOPSIS
(4)
Planetarium Tea [ プラネタリウム 茶/チャ] ♥♥
(3)
♥Stairway To Heaven
(1)
HxH Vol.2:15 [The Way the Majority Decides] – Manga
(0)
HxH Vol.2:13-14 [A game At
Midnight [1] – Manga
(0)
HxH Vol.2:12 [Presidents Visit] – Manga
(0)
HxH Vol.2:10 [A Test Unaccounted For] – Manga
(0)
HxH Vol.2:11 [An Obvious Result] – Manga
(0)
HxH Vol.1:9 [Battle] – Manga
(0)
September 2011  (6)
August 2011  (35)
Amy Le
Amy Lee
Anime
Creator
Death
Death Note
endl
Endless Love
Eun Ha
Evanescence
GMA 7
Gon
hana yori dango
hanazawa rui
Hisoka
Hunter X Hunter
Hyuu Tatsuma
inoue mao
j-pop
japan
japanese music
Killua
Korea
Korean
Korean Novela
Love Letter
love songs
Manga
Manga Hunter X Hunter
moonlight
My Immortal
Oh Seo-Yoon
ost
otsuka ai
planetarium
road
Screencaps
shun oguri
Stairway To Heaven
Summer Scent
Toukyou Majin
tsukushi makino
Winter Sonata
Anime Screencaps
(25)
↑Planetarium Place♥♥→
(3)
♠Korean Drama [SYNOPSIS]
(2)
♥Korean Endless Love Series Collection♥
(5)
♪ Japanese Music [SONGS]♪
(1)
♪ Korean OST's [SONGS]♪
(2)
Uncategorized
(3)
Only the BEST!!!!!! 100%
Meta
Register
Log in
Entries
RSS
Comments
RSS
Blog at WordPress.com .
RSS - Posts RSS - Comments
Blog at WordPress.com .
The Mystique Theme .
Follow
Follow “L
- - - - - If you want to get a man’s heart, you definitely cannot give it to them. Your gaze, your heart, or your touch, You definitely cannot give it to them.”
Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.
Build a website with WordPress.com
%d
bloggers like this: