Books
Route
66 Reversed
Part 3:
The 66
Memorial, West Los Angeles
©
2007 by John Varley; all rights reserved
Click photos to enlarge
It took quite a few years, but the expansion and
renovation of Santa Monica Boulevard from the 405 freeway to the
Beverly Hills
city limits is now complete. There are medians,
local access streets, and even the plantings have started to take
hold. In
Century City
the transformation is the most sweeping, with wide turn lanes that
make traffic flow much more efficiently than it used to. Now you
have only the bottleneck in good old 90210 to contend with, and
that’s always bad, except on Sundays.
Part of all that construction, and a part that I’ll
bet not one out of a hundred motorists notice as they drive through,
is something that I’m calling the Route 66 Memorial. I’ve been
unable to find out anything about it online, but I’m betting it’s
part of some public art ordinance or something like that, where a
small fraction of new roads and public buildings has to be spent
on—all too often—bad sculpture or paintings. Each of the
Metro
Rail stations , for instance, is decorated in a different style,
some quite good, some really awful. This 66 thing has to be one of
the most obscure.
For one thing, it’s all mounted up at the top of the
new lampposts, far out of normal vision. For another, it’s far from
monumental. I only noticed it one day when, stuck in traffic, I
looked up and thought I saw … is that
an
armadillo? What’s it doing in California, impaled on a lamppost, and
plated in aluminum? The only clue to its meaning is on the bracket
below, where the numerals 66 are punched out of the metal …
backwards. That’s right, when you’ve driving on the boulevard, which
is how 99% of the people who notice these things at all will see
them, they are reversed. Very appropriate for our reverse of the
traditional 66 trip, but it seems a miscalculation on the part of
the artist, whoever he or she may be.
Some of them are obvious, and some were mysterious
for a while. One still has us baffled. I believe we saw them all,
but they are widely spaced—only about every 20th post has a 66
symbol on it—and we may have missed one. And one seems to have
vanished, though I’m going to look for it again. They commemorate
the eight states Route 66 passes through, and they are, in order:
EUREKA … state
motto of California.
A surfboard.
Obviously California.
A saguaro cactus
… Arizona.
A n Indian
dancer …  Arizona.
IT GROWS AS IT
GOES, translation of
Crescit eundo , on the state
seal of New Mexico.
Update
The Indian
sunburst from the flag of New Mexico.
An armadillo,
better known from my childhood as a “Texas speed bump.”
The Alamo. If
that don’t mean Texas to you, you’re probably Yankee scum.
An arrowhead.
This must mean Oklahoma.
What looks like
a sprig of mistletoe. This is the “state floral emblem” of
Oklahoma.
A pair of ruby
slippers. First thought: California, the movie business. Then,
of course, I realized that Dorothy was from Kansas.
The next
one
is the conundrum. It’s a bust of a woman in a gown with a pearl
necklace, with her hair in what looks like a ‘20s bob. She looks
like a black woman, and is probably a singer, but we can’t figure
out who she is. She must be associated with Kansas or Missouri. A
blues singer? Can anyone help us out? We’ll probably feel silly when
we learn her identity, but honestly, we’re stumped.
Update
It's Josephine Baker! Thank you, Mike Stamm.
SHOW ME. Missouri.
Now another mystery.
I would have sworn I saw a bust of Lincoln on a lamppost driving by
one day, but I looked for it as we walked and didn’t find it. I’m
going to try again. And, logically, since each state seems to have
two icons, there should be yet another one for Illinois, and another
for Kansas or Missouri. Why isn’t there a plaque of some sort on
ground level to tell us these things? Because other than the Mormon
Temple at the foot of Overland, there really isn’t much else to see
on this little stretch of Route 66., though Lee took some pictures
of an interesting fountain and some colorful buildings.
Update
We went back and
found Lincoln and the Sears Tower ... two for Illinois. And a wheat
stalk for Kansas.
Century
City
When I first came to Los Angeles in 1967, after the
Summer of Love in San Francisco ,
Century City
was a lot of bulldozed
ground, with basically one wide street, the
Avenue of the Stars , and
one building, the
Century Plaza Hotel . It all stood on what had been
the vast backlots of the
20th Century Fox studios . Backlots were
being sold off and developed all over LA at the time. Lots of people
wish we had them back, they could be tourist attractions.
Universal
kept some of theirs and developed them into a huge theme park which
has worked out pretty well. But it’s hard to argue that Fox could
have made more money than they did with the course they took.
Century City today is chock-a-block with tall buildings, a huge
financial success.
Back then, like I said, there was only the Century
Plaza. Shortly after my friend Chris and I arrived in LA a peace
rally was held outside the hotel.
President Johnson
was inside at a
$1000-a-plate fundraiser. The
LAPD
expected 2,000 protesters, and
they got 20,000 to 30,000. They panicked, and waded into the crowd
with tear gas and night sticks, beating heads left and right, men,
women, children, people in wheelchairs.
Harlan Ellison
wrote a
couple apocalyptic columns about it in the
Los Angeles Free
Press .
Ron Cobb
did
a
cartoon about it
that showed LBJ in the far distance at a
podium, surrounded by a sea of police helmets close as cobblestones,
with frowning cops in the foreground. The prez is saying “Mah fellow
Americans …” This was the
Los Angeles version of the Summer of Love .
Chris and I weren’t there, luckily enough. We were on
Sunset Boulevard selling the
Free Press
to passing
motorists, and doing pretty good at it, too. Some people came
running down the street yelling that the cops were rioting, hunting
for hippies anywhere they could find them and bashing more heads. We
made ourselves scarce, along with a lot of others, until the rumors
could be sorted out. When you imagine this scene, your soundtrack
should be “ For What
It’s Worth ,” by
Steven Stills .
The Century Plaza is still there, but it’s now lost
in a maze of larger buildings. There’s the
Twin Towers , which were
designed by
Minoru Yamasaki , the same guy who did the
World Trade
Center
in New York, and are reminiscent of that lost glory, except
they’re triangular and full of talent agencies and other
entertainment industry folks. There’s
Fox Plaza , where
Ronald Reagan
had a penthouse office post-presidency, back in the days when he no
longer had much use for an office. I suppose he ate a lot of
jellybeans up there, maybe sorted his postage stamps and drooled a
lot. It’s also the building that was used, while still under
construction, in
Die Hard , with those big explosions
up on the top floors. It’s the main offices of Fox studios, which
are just to the southwest.
MGM
has a big building there, too. Other
than that, Century City is mostly banks, brokerages, and bullshit,
devoted pretty much entirely to making rich people richer. There are
at least a dozen banks; I stopped counting. There’s even a building
with a big hole in the middle.
Century City looks pretty spiffy if you’re driving
through. There are a lot of fountains and landscaping. It’s clean,
the avenues are broad, the traffic moves well except when those
billions of office workers come boiling up out of the underground
garages (including one of the world’s largest, it is said) like
angry termites at five PM and start the daily scramble for home
without benefit of freeways. (The Beverly Hills Freeway was part of
the original plan for the area, but for once Los Angeles rejected a
freeway, and so people have to crawl through terrible street traffic
to get to the terrible traffic on the I-405 or the I-10.) (I imagine
the freeway was stopped because it was going to cut right through
Beverly Hills on Santa Monica, which would have ripped the heart out
of the community, as other freeways did to so many other communities
to the south and east, but the 90210ers had the clout to stop it.)
From the ground, on foot, however, it’s a different
story. There are very few people walking around, and we were there
at lunchtime, when presumably foot traffic would be at its highest.
There’s a big, upscale shopping center, the
Westfield Century City ,
to the west, which I assume has places to eat, and most of the
buildings have a restaurant or two, as well, of the sort that close
at 5 and make most of their money around noon. The height of the
buildings is oppressive. Sure, I know,
Manhattan
had many much
narrower streets and much higher buildings, but the sidewalks are
always bustling with people there, wherever and almost whenever you
go. Not Century City. It’s sort of the apotheosis of Los Angeles,
where the rumor is that nobody walks. (Not true, mostly, but I’ll
concede there are fewer walkers than in many other cities.) The
buildings don’t have any street warmth, either. By that I mean they
sprout right out of the concrete like glass and steel walls, with
very little ornamentation, and what public spaces have been created
are not built to a human scale. In fact, nothing in Century City is
built to a human scale. There are no benches, and very little green
space where one could lie on the grass.
But we got lucky and
were there on a Thursday, which has to be Century City’s best day,
as there is a small farmers market on Thursdays, tucked away in the
shadow of one of the skyscrapers. The produce was pretty much the
same stuff you’d find at the much larger Hollywood farmers market on
Sundays, though the prepared foods were a lot higher end and more
expensive. We bought a very nice peach cobbler, just enough for two.
There were 8 or 9 food booths, and none of them were serving corn
dogs or burgers. One specialized in what they called Thai-Mex. We
shared a styrofoam box of red curry salmon for $8 from another
place, and it was quite good, but I kept thinking of the Thai-Mex.
What could that be about? The pictures looked interesting. Maybe
next time.
Beverly
Hills, For the Third Time
We’ve now walked through
90210 on Sunset , on
Wilshire , and now on Santa Monica Boulevard. It’s still as ritzy as
ever.
There is
absolutely no street parking
in Century City. (Well, there may be a space or two on some of the
side streets, but your chances of finding one are minimal.) All the
parking is underground, and unless you work there, will set you back
at the rate of $3 per 15 minutes, up to a $24 max.
We had left off
our last walk almost all the way through CC, but still had a bit to
go, so we parked in Beverly Hills near the
Witch’s House —still
undergoing refurbishment—and walked back to the land of banks,
brokerages, and bullshit. Lee took a lot more pictures of the
fountain there at the intersection of Santa Monica and Wilshire, as
we crossed back over the path of our previous walk. It’s a doozy of
a fountain, and has a habit of suddenly almost shutting itself off
just as you’re about to snap the shutter, then going all tall and
misty again as soon as your back’s turned.
We walked down a short alley behind the shops of
Beverly Hills, and you’d never guess this was an upscale
neighborhood except for the lack of graffiti. Touched base at the
place we’d left off, then back, and since Santa Monica Boulevard
North is pretty uninteresting at this point, we went down Santa
Monica South, which most Angelenos call Little Santa Monica. It
parallels the bigger, busier street. There must be two dozen
hairdressers in four or five blocks, though few of them call
themselves that. One styles himself a “beauty creator.” You can
smell the stench of some of the awful stuff women let stylists put
on their hair, and it smells the same as any other beauty parlor.
There was a building completely covered on the
outside with silver bangles that moved in the wind. This was
Maison
Martin Margiela , and inside was a tower made of champagne glasses,
must have been twenty feet high. They were selling shoes and
handbags and such, and the staff was dressed, for no reason I could
see, in pale green surgical scrubs. Must be trendy in some way.
“Trendy” often zips right over my head.
Other sights:
The
Beverly Hills Mutt Club , where you can buy
outfits for your dog costing more than I’ve ever paid for any
article of clothing. In fact, I don’t doubt some of the stuff in
there would equal my yearly budget for duds.
George Michael, a Long Hair Care Center.
Beverly Hills Rent-a-Car , where the Corvette and the Porche are the
cheap
vehicles.
The building housing Celebrity Society Magazine,
whatever that is, which has a very nice public sculpture court, not
fenced off, and including that rarity in expensive neighborhoods:
park benches that are actually comfortable to sit on, and which you
could stretch out if you wanted to. Before the security guard ran
you off, of course.
Lee’s collecting unusual gas stations, of which Los
Angeles and area have more than a few. There was a good one just
before we got to the
BH Civic Center
… which is very nice. It’s a
maze of ramps, most of it fairly new, but harmonizing nicely with
the 1920s tower and gold capital of the City Hall itself.
We peered
through the windows—it’s closed on Saturdays, naturally—and it
looked interesting enough inside to merit a return trip. The library
is here, too, and it is a very pretty one. I liked the way lights
were suspended over the stacks so the rows of books weren’t so
gloomy, you could actually read the spines, and yet the rest of the
library was pleasantly dim. There’s a very good display of some of
their collection of letters and signed photographs, from some very
big Hollywood names. There is a hand-drawn birthday greeting from
Orson Welles
that revealed a talent for caricature I didn’t know he
possessed.
And sculpture, and more sculpture. I’ll bet 90210 has
a bigger budget for public art than most communities spend on the
police department. It’s scattered over the lawn at city hall, and as
we turned around to return to the car we walked almost half of the
mile-long strip of park that runs alongside Santa Monica Boulevard
and is just lousy with sculpture. One is of a hunter and his dogs,
and it’s pock-marked with shells from World War One. A lot more fun
is what I think of as Audrey 3, 4, & 5, three fanciful plants that
remind me of Audrey 2 in
Little Shop of
Horrors .
What else? Oh,
there’s a cactus garden. The long park is broken only by three
churches that reach out to the sidewalk. One of them, the
All
Saints’ Episcopal , is where
Dudley Moore
skulked around and got a
bee up his nose in the movie
10 .
West
Hollywood
Population 37,000, with 15,000 (40%) of them gay,
according to Wikipedia. Most of that number are men, at least going
by what you see on the street. I doubt there is a town anywhere in
the US with a higher percentage; they are almost the majority.
Something else you notice: There is very little excess fat on the
streets of
West Hollywood . These gay guys do keep themselves in
shape. You see some leather boys, and some effeminate men, a few
cross-dressers, but most of the guys here are not flamboyant, at
least during the daytime. At night and on the weekends, when they
dress up and people come in from other areas and swell the
population to over 100,000, it can be a different story, as we
learned a few weeks ago when we attended the annual Halloween
Costume Ball, estimated at half a million people, 250,000 of whom
(like us) were dressed normally and taking pictures of the other
250,000. There’s a Gay and Lesbian Pride Parade, too. We’ll have to
find out when that is and see it.
West Hollywood is pretty new, as towns go. For a long
time it was just an unincorporated area of Los Angeles County (and
how it avoided being gobbled up by LA I don’t know), but it became a
city on its own in 1984. They are still policed by the LA County
Sheriff’s office, which is sort of a shame, I think. I mean, if they
had their own police force, they could design their own uniforms.
Lots of leather and silver chains, big boots … that’s for the women,
of course. For the men, something in pink, maybe, with pearl accents
and feather trim, a few rhinestones here and there … don’t take
offense, I’m just stereotyping.
But seriously, though the town is way ahead of most
places in civil rights for everyone, though it is liberal in a
good
way in most respects, there are a few areas where
political correctness has run amuck. It’s illegal to declaw cats,
and there is no such thing as a “pet owner” in West Hollywood. They
are to be referred to as “guardians.” Gimme a break.
We began where we left off, at the Beverly Hills
Civic Center, where the weekly farmers market was being held on a
side street. It was much like the one at Century City, with many of
the same faces and booths. At the entrance we were entertained by a
brass quintet. I am a big fan of brass quintets, I have all the
albums by the
Canadian Brass
and the
Empire Brass , who are even
better. These folks were only so-so. The trombone picker was
consistently just a little bit flat. Well, what can you do? You know
the definition of a trombone? It’s a manually-operated, wind-driven
tone approximator. That’s a symphony joke. Want another one? What’s
the difference between a bull and a symphony orchestra? A bull has
the horns in the front and the asshole in the back. I’ve got a lot
more about sopranos, viola players, drummers, and oboists, but I
won’t inflict them on you.
Sights:
The Troubadour , a relic of the ‘60s where a lot of
bands played before they became household names, including
The
Byrds , featuring our friend
David
Crosby , and
Buffalo Springfield . It was here that
Steven Stills
wrote “ For
What It’s Worth ,” after the Sunset Boulevard riots.
A nursery that featured giant topiaries … or
something that resembled them, anyway. Real topiary is hedges
sculpted to look like animals, but these used a short cut, with
bundled peat moss or something, and greenery, including grass,
growing on them. Actually more like giant chia pets, right?
Impressive nonetheless. I’d seen small ones before, but never
giraffes and brontosaurs.
The Palm restaurant , closed at this hour, where the
walls are covered with caricatures of some of the famous people who
have dined there. I had dinner there one night with the
Millennium
producers, and
Johnny Carson
was in one of the
booths. Sorry, I just can’t resist name-dropping.
Another upscale used-car dealership, that at least
had the grace not to call their iron pre-owned. Such cars! Lee
swooned over an Austin-Healey, but she’s always liked little toy
cars. I preferred a huge Lincoln, looked like it might have been
from the early ‘30s.
Some very
interesting architecture around here. I’ll let Lee select some of
her favorites to post.
West
Hollywood, Part 2
We started the next day by backtracking a little bit,
and, technically, going off of Route 66, but only a block. Nothing
wrong with taking a little side trip here and there, if it’s to
visit something like the
Pacific Design Center . This is the most
impressive building in West Hollywood and, except maybe for the
Disney Center , probably in Los Angeles, too.
It’s actually two connected buildings, one long and
low, sometimes called the “blue whale,” the other more or less
cubical, but with some interesting angular projections, in a
brilliant green. There are plans for a red building. They really
knock your eyes out. Every way you look at them, they look
different. At night, they change colors in odd and interesting ways.
Inside are hundreds of interior designers, furniture
sellers, rug merchants, purveyors of curtains, fabrics … anything
you want to decorate your home, as long as you have deep pockets. It
used to be “to the trade” only, but now it’s open to the public, and
you could spend a whole day inside and not even begin to see it all.
The stuff varies from the extremely modern to the baroque, like
French and Chinese, but it’s all spendy. We’ve been there twice
before, and wanted to include in on this walk. Plus, Lee is
collecting photos of toilets (don’t ask why), and we’d seen some
interesting ones there before, including one that had a fish tank
built into it. We didn’t find that one this time, and one of the
places was snooty about allowing pictures, but we had a good time.
Then back in the car to park where we left off, near
La Cienega. We hadn’t gone far when we were accosted by a fellow
handing out postcards advertising a movie that was going to be shown
at a theater down the street that night, hosted by the director
himself. It’s called
What Would Jesus Buy?
… and this guy turned out to
be
the director!
His
name is
Rob
VanAlkemade
and he’s worked mostly as a cinematographer thus far
in his career. I see that he worked on something called
Show Business: The
Road to Broadway , which I’ve had in my Netflix queue for
months now. I just moved it to the top.
WWJB
is a
documentary about a performance artist who calls himself the
Reverend Billy, who goes around
Wal-Marts
and big shopping centers
preaching against consumerism. It sounds interesting; we may go see
it. Most of you will have to wait for the video, as it is currently
showing in a great big three theaters nationwide, in Hollywood,
Greenwich Village, and Irvine. ( Irvine? )
On to the hippest thrift store in the world, the
Santa Monica branch of
Out of the Closet , which is a chain of about
a dozen store run by some
AIDS foundation . Many of the people who
donate stuff are gay, so they have some really nice stuff. (Okay,
stereotype, but lots of gay guys
do
have better taste
than your average Joe. Some of them have
awful
taste,
too, running to naked gold-painted plaster boy cherubs and terrible
picture frames.) But the attraction here is the windows, which beat
the pants off of the trendiest shops in LA. They change them
frequently, and they are
seriously weird . You never
know what you’re going to see in those windows, but you know it will
be startling. They are made by something called eiotown, which turns
out to be a guy named
Edgar I. Orduna . I don’t know where these
mannequins go after they spend time in the windows, but I do wish
they weren’t behind glass, as that makes it hard to get good
pictures of them. But Lee tries, and has had some good results.
We stopped in at a bird store. If we’d been in the
market for a parrot, they had some great ones on sale. The one I’d
have liked to have taken home was a small one named Napoleon. If you
put him under your T-shirt, he liked to claw his way up inside, and
peek his little red, orange, and green head out the neck.
As you might expect, AIDS is a very big deal in West
Hollywood. There are various tributes to the fallen, including a
little triangular park at Crescent Heights. Then there is what at
first glance you might take to be a war memorial. Actually, it’s a
memorial to oppression and intolerance. No, wait, that doesn’t sound
right. To the intolerant and oppressed? Still not right … how about
those oppressed people victimized by intolerance? Got it. That’s
okay with me, I’ve got nothing against war memorials—never having
served myself, I don’t really feel I would have a right to—but every
community has one. West Hollywood has to be different. That’s what I
like about it, silliness about “animal guardians” aside.
So, on the bus back to the car, and one of my
favorite places to eat in the area,
Barney’s Beanery . It was founded
in 1920, which makes it about as old as
Stonehenge
in Los Angeles
terms.
Just a small café and bar in the bottom floor of a house when
it began, but it was added on to several times over the years. It’s
been host to several generations of celebrities, from
Clark Gable
and
Errol Flynn , to
Jim Morrison
and
Janis Joplin . We’ve never seen
any celebs there, but there’s a good chance we wouldn’t recognize
many of today’s big music and TV stars, anyway. The menu is huge,
they claim 1000 items, from pizza to Mexican to chili to pasta to
barbecue to burgers to sandwiches, and it’s printed on newspaper
with little tidbits of Barney’s history tucked in here and there. It
is alleged that Janis’s limo was parked outside the night she ODed.
The walls are covered with old newspapers and the tables are
collages of famous people you can try to identify while you wait for
your order. The waitresses are all gorgeous, but that’s not unusual
in Hollywood. The bar is big, there are dozens of TV sets, and the
noise level can be high. Oh, and the food is pretty good, too, and
the prices aren’t outrageous.
One thing we hadn’t
noticed before is the plates, which are imprinted with “Historic
Route 66.” How about that?
November 25, 2007
Back to
VarleyYarns
or
Home