interchange 3 - statue of liberity
interchange 3
statue of liberity
The
Statue of Liberty
( French :
Statue de la Liberté ), or, more formally,
Liberty Enlightening the World
( French :
La liberté éclairant le monde ), was presented to the United States by the people of France in 1886. Standing on
Liberty Island
in
New York Harbor , it welcomes visitors, immigrants, and returning Americans traveling by ship. [ 5 ]
The
copper -clad statue, dedicated on October 28, 1886, commemorates the centennial of the signing of the
United States Declaration of Independence
and was given to the United States to represent the friendship established during the American Revolution. [ 6 ]
Frédéric Auguste Bartholdi
sculpted the statue [ 7 ]
and obtained a
U.S. patent
for its structure. [ 8 ]
Maurice Koechlin
- chief engineer of
Gustave Eiffel 's engineering company and designer of the
Eiffel Tower
- engineered the internal structure.
Eugène Viollet-le-Duc
was responsible for the choice of copper in the statue's construction and adoption of the
repoussé
technique, where a
malleable
metal is hammered on the reverse side. [ 9 ]
The statue is of a robed woman (i.e. goddess) holding a torch, and
is made of a sheeting of pure copper, hung on a framework of steel
(originally
puddled iron ) with the exception of the flame of the torch, which is coated in
gold leaf
(originally made of copper and later altered to hold glass panes). It
stands atop a rectangular stonework pedestal with a foundation in the
shape of an irregular eleven-pointed star. The statue is 151 ft (46 m)
tall, but with the pedestal and foundation, it is 305 ft (93 m) tall.
Worldwide, the Statue of Liberty is one of the most recognizable icons of the United States [ 10 ]
and was, from 1886 until the jet age, often one of the first glimpses
of the United States for millions of immigrants after ocean voyages
from Europe. Visually, the Statue of Liberty appears to draw
inspiration from
il Sancarlone
or the
Colossus of Rhodes .
The statue is the central part of
Statue of Liberty
National Monument , administered by the
National Park Service Symbolism
The
classical
appearance (Roman
stola , sandals, facial expression) derives from
Libertas , ancient Rome's goddess of freedom from slavery, oppression, and tyranny. Her raised right foot is on the move. This symbol of
Liberty
and
Freedom
is not standing still or at attention in the harbor, it is moving forward, as her left foot tramples broken
shackles
at her feet, in symbolism of the United States' wish to be free from oppression and tyranny. [ 11 ]
The seven spikes on the crown epitomize the
Seven Seas
and
seven continents . [ 12 ]
Her torch signifies
enlightenment . The tablet in her hand represents knowledge and shows the date of the
United States Declaration of Independence , in
roman numerals , July IV, MDCCLXXVI.
The general appearance of the statue’s head approximates the Roman Sun-god
Apollo
or the Greek Sun-god
Helios
as preserved on an ancient marble tablet (today in the Archaeological Museum of Corinth,
Corinth , Greece) -
Apollo
was represented as a
solar deity , dressed in a similar robe and having on its head a "radiate crown" with the seven spiked rays of the
Helios - Apollo 's sun rays, like the Statue's nimbus or
halo . The ancient
Colossus of Rhodes , one of the
Seven Wonders of the Ancient World , was a statue of Helios with a radiate crown. The Colossus is referred to in the 1883 sonnet
The New Colossus
by
Emma Lazarus . Lazarus' poem was later engraved on a bronze plaque and mounted inside the Statue of Liberty in 1903.
The statue, also known affectionately as "Lady Liberty", has become
a symbol of freedom and democracy. She welcomed arriving immigrants,
who could see the statue as they arrived in the United States. There is
a version of the statue in France given by the United States in return History
Discussions in France over a suitable gift to the United States to
mark the Centennial of the American Declaration of Independence were
headed by the politician and sympathetic writer of the history of the
United States,
Édouard René de Laboulaye . French sculptor
Frédéric Bartholdi
was commissioned to design a sculpture with the year
1876
in mind for completion. The idea for the commemorative gift then grew
out of the political turmoil which was shaking France at the time. The
French Third Republic
was still considered as a temporary arrangement by many, who wished a return to
monarchism , or to some form of constitutional authoritarianism such as they had known under
Napoleon .
The idea of giving a colossal representation of republican virtues to a
sister republic across the sea served as a focus for the republican
cause against other politicians.
The first Statue of Liberty, today located in the
Jardin du Luxembourg , Paris
The first model, on a small scale, was built in 1870. This first statue is now in the
Jardin du Luxembourg
in Paris.
A second model, also on a small scale, was further brought to
Maceió , a city in the Northeast of Brazil. This model is in front of Maceió's first city hall, built in 1869, which is now a museum.
While on a visit to Egypt that was to shift his artistic perspective
from simply grand to colossal, Bartholdi was inspired by the project of
the
Suez Canal
which was being undertaken by Count
Ferdinand de Lesseps ,
who later became a lifelong friend of his. He envisioned a giant
lighthouse standing at the entrance to the canal and drew plans for it.
It would be patterned after the Roman goddess
Libertas ,
modified to resemble a robed Egyptian peasant, with light beaming out
from both a headband and a torch thrust dramatically upward into the
skies. Bartholdi presented his plans to the Egyptian Khedive,
Isma'il Pasha ,
in 1867 and, with revisions, again in 1869, but the project was never
commissioned because of financial issues the country was going through. [ 13 ]
Bartholdi's design patent
Circa 1880 model of the plaster mock-up being realized in the Bartholdi atelier, rue de Chazelles, near
Parc Monceau , Paris.
Diorama of the manufacture of Liberty's copper head in the ateliers of Gaget, Gauthier and Cie.
It was agreed that in a joint effort, the American people were to
build the base, and the French people were responsible for the Statue
and its assembly in the United States. In France, public donations,
various forms of entertainment including notably performances of
La liberté éclairant le monde
(Liberty enlightening the world) by soon-to-be famous composer
Charles Gounod
at
Paris Opera , and a charitable lottery were among the methods used to raise the 2,250,000
francs
($250,000). In the United States, benefit theatrical events, art exhibitions, auctions and
prize fights
assisted in providing needed funds.
Meanwhile in France, Bartholdi required the assistance of an
engineer to address structural issues associated with designing such a
colossal copper sculpture.
Gustave Eiffel
(designer of the
Eiffel Tower )
was commissioned to design the massive iron pylon and secondary
skeletal framework which allows the Statue's copper skin to move
independently yet stand upright. Eiffel delegated the detailed work to
his trusted
structural engineer ,
Maurice Koechlin .
Bartholdi had initially planned to have the statue completed and
presented to the United States on July 4, 1876, but a late start and
subsequent delays prevented it. However, by that time the right arm and
torch were completed. This part of the statue was displayed at the
Centennial Exposition
in
Philadelphia ,
where visitors were charged 50 cents to climb the ladder to the
balcony. The money raised this way was used to start funding the
pedestal.
On June 30, 1878, at the
Paris Exposition , the completed head of the statue was showcased in the garden of the
Trocadéro
palace, while other pieces were on display in the Champs de Mars.
Back in America, the site, authorized in New York Harbor by an act of Congress, 1877, was selected by General
William Tecumseh Sherman , who settled on Bartholdi's own choice, then known as Bedloe's Island (named after
Isaac Bedloe ), where there was already an early 19th century star-shaped fortification named
Fort Wood .
United States Minister to France
Levi P. Morton
hammered the first nail in the construction of the statue.
Richard Morris Hunt's pedestal under construction in June 1885
On February 18, 1879, Bartholdi was granted a
design patent ,
U.S. Patent D11,023
,
on "a statue representing Liberty enlightening the world, the same
consisting, essentially, of the draped female figure, with one arm
upraised, bearing a torch, and while the other holds an inscribed
tablet, and having upon the head a diadem, substantially as set forth."
The patent described the head as having "classical, yet severe and
calm, features," noted that the body is "thrown slightly over to the
left so as to gravitate upon the left leg, the whole figure thus being
in equilibrium," and covered representations in "any manner known to
the glyptic art in the form of a statue or statuette, or in
alto-relievo or bass-relief, in metal, stone, terra-cotta,
plaster-of-paris, or other plastic composition." [ 14 ]
The financing for the statue was completed in France in July 1882.
Fund-raising for the pedestal, led by
William M. Evarts , was going slowly, so publisher
Joseph Pulitzer
(who established the Pulitzer Prize) opened up the editorial pages of his newspaper,
The World,
to support the fund raising effort in 1883. Pulitzer used his newspaper
to criticize both the rich, who had failed to finance the pedestal
construction, and the middle class who were content to rely upon the
wealthy to provide the funds. [ 15 ]
His campaign was an important contribution to the effort, but
ultimately Senator Evarts and the American Committee he headed raised
the majority of funds for the pedestal.
The construction of the statue was completed in France in July 1884.
The cornerstone of the pedestal, designed by American architect
Richard Morris Hunt ,
was laid on August 5, 1884, but the construction had to be stopped by
lack of funds in January 1885. It was resumed on May 11, 1885 after a
renewed fund campaign by Joseph Pulitzer in March 1885. Thirty-eight of
the forty-six courses of masonry were yet to be built.
The statue arrived in New York Harbor on June 17, 1885 on board the French frigate
Isère .
To prepare for transit, the Statue was reduced to 350 individual pieces
and packed in 214 crates. (The right arm and the torch, which were
completed earlier, had been exhibited at the Centennial Exposition in
Philadelphia in 1876, and thereafter at
Madison Square
in New York City.)
Financing for the pedestal was completed on August 11, 1885 and
construction was finished on April 22, 1886. When the last stone of the
pedestal was swung into place the masons reached into their pockets and
showered into the mortar a collection of silver coins.
Built into the pedestal's massive masonry are two sets of four iron
girders, connected by iron tie beams that are carried up to become part
of Eiffel's framework for the statue itself. Thus
Liberty
is integral with her pedestal.
Used as a lighthouse, the original torch fatally disoriented birds
Currier & Ives
chromolithograph
of the statue published one year before it was erected. Depicts the
statue's original copper-bronze hue, but situates it facing southward
instead of eastward.
Manhattan
and the
Brooklyn Bridge
are visible in the background.
The statue, which was stored for eleven months in crates waiting for
its pedestal to be finished, was then reassembled in four months. On
October 28, 1886, the Statue of Liberty was unveiled by President
Grover Cleveland
in front of thousands of spectators. (Cleveland, as Governor of the
State of New York, had earlier vetoed a bill by the New York
legislature to contribute $50,000 to building of the pedestal.) [ 16 ]
The Statue of Liberty functioned as a
lighthouse
from 1886 to 1902. [ 17 ]
At that time the U.S. Lighthouse board was responsible for its
operation. There was a lighthouse keeper and the electric light could
be seen for 24 miles (39 km) at sea. As a lighthouse, it is the first
to use electricity; [ 18 ]
there was also an electric plant on the island to generate power for the light. [ 17 ]
In 1913 a group of young pilots graduated from the Moissant School
of Aviation based on Long Island. One of the graduates, the Mexican
pilot
Juan Pablo Aldasoro
was selected to perform the first flight above the Statue of Liberty. All of the graduates later on became members of the
Early Birds of Aviation .
In 1916,
floodlights
were placed around the base of the statue. [ 19 ]
Also in 1916, the
Black Tom explosion
caused $100,000 worth of damage ($1.98 million in 2008 dollars [ 20 ] ) to the statue, embedding fragmentation and eventually leading to the closing of the torch to visitors. The same year,
Gutzon Borglum , sculptor of
Mount Rushmore ,
modified the original copper torch by cutting away most of the copper
in the flame, retrofitting glass panes and installing an internal light. [ 21 ]
After these modifications, the torch severely leaked rainwater and
snowmelt, accelerating corrosion inside the statue. President
Franklin D. Roosevelt
rededicated the Statue of Liberty on its 50th anniversary (October 28, 1936).
In 1956, through an act of Congress, Bedloe's Island was officially
renamed Liberty Island, though Liberty Island had been used informally
since the turn of the century.
As with all historic areas administered by the National Park
Service, Statue of Liberty National Monument, along with Ellis Island
and Liberty Island, was listed on the
National Register of Historic Places
on October 15, 1966. [ 22 ]
In 1972, President Richard M. Nixon dedicated the American Museum of
Immigration, housed in structural additions to the base of the pedestal
on top of what was Fort Wood. [ 23 ]
In 1984, the Statue of Liberty was added to the list of
World Heritage Sites . [ 24 ]
In 2007, the Statue of Liberty was one of 20 finalists in a competition to name the
New Seven Wonders of the World Inspiration for the face
.
Interior view of the statue upwards, reopened to the public in 1986
Aerial view
View from the ground
Full-size replica of the face of the Statue, seen as part of the exhibit in one of the corridors of the Statue's
pedestal . Note the retention of the original copper color.
Unsubstantiated sources cite different models for the face of the statue. One indicated the then-recently widowed
Isabella Eugenie Boyer , the wife of
Isaac Singer ,
the sewing-machine industrialist. "She was rid of the uncouth presence
of her husband, who had left her with only his most socially desirable
attributes: his fortune and -- his children. She was, from the
beginning of her career in Paris, a well-known figure. As the
good-looking French widow of an American industrialist she was called
upon to be Bartholdi's model for the Statue of Liberty." [ 25 ]
Another source believed that the "stern face" belonged to Bartholdi's
mother, Charlotte Bartholdi (1801–1891), with whom he was very close. [ 26 ]
National Geographic magazine also pointed to his mother, noting that Bartholdi never denied nor explained the resemblance. [ 27 ]
Physical characteristics
The interior of the statue used to be open to visitors. They arrived
by ferry and could climb the circular single-file stairs (limited by
the available space) inside the metallic statue, exposed to the sun out
in the harbor (the interior reaching extreme temperatures, particularly
in summer), and about 30 people at a time could fit up into the crown.
This provided a broad view of New York Harbor (it faces the ocean)
through 25 windows, the largest approximately 18" (46 cm) in height.
The view did not, therefore, include the skyline of New York City. The
wait outside regularly exceeded three hours, excluding the wait for
ferries and ferry tickets.
The green-blue coloration is caused by chemical reactions, which
produced copper salts and created the current hue. Most copper statues
in the outside elements, left to their own, will eventually turn this
color in a process called
patination . [ 28 ]
There are 354 steps inside the statue and its pedestal, with 25
windows in the crown which comprise the jewels beneath the seven rays
of the
diadem . The tablet which the statue holds in her left hand reads, in Roman numerals, "July 4, 1776" the day of the adoption of the
Declaration of Independence .
The Statue of Liberty was engineered to withstand heavy winds. Winds
of 50 miles per hour cause the Statue to sway 3 inches (7.62 cm) and
the torch to sway 5 inches (12.7 cm). This allows the Statue to move
rather than break in high
wind load
conditions . Origin of the copper
Historical records make no mention of the source of the copper used in the Statue of Liberty. In the village of
Visnes
in the municipality of
Karmøy , Norway, tradition holds that the copper came from the French-owned Visnes Mine. [ 31 ] [ 32 ]
Ore from this mine, refined in France and Belgium, was a significant
source of European copper in the late nineteenth century. In 1985, Bell
Labs used emission spectrography to compare samples of copper from the
Visnes Mines and from the Statue of Liberty, found the spectrum of
impurities to be very similar, and concluded that the evidence argued
strongly for a Norwegian origin of the copper. Other sources say that
the copper was mined in
Nizhny Tagil . [ 33 ]
The copper sheets were created in the workshops of the Gaget-Gauthier
company, and shaped in the Ateliers Mesureur in the west of Paris in
1878. Funding for the copper was provided by Pierre-Eugène Secrétan The Statue of Liberty was one of the earliest beneficiaries of a
cause marketing
campaign. A 1983 promotion advertised that for each purchase made with an
American Express
card, American Express would contribute one penny to the renovation of
the statue. The campaign generated contributions of $1.7 million to the
Statue of Liberty restoration project. In 1984, the statue was closed
so that a $62 million renovation could be performed for the statue's
centennial .
Chrysler chairman Lee Iacocca was appointed by President Reagan to head
the commission overseeing the task (but was later dismissed "to avoid
any question of conflict" of interest). [ 34 ]
Workers erected
scaffolding
around the statue, obscuring it from public view until the
rededication
on July 3, 1986 — the scaffolding-clad statue can be seen in the 1984 film
Desperately Seeking Susan , in the 1985 film
Remo Williams: The Adventure Begins , and in the 1985 film
Brewster's Millions .
Inside work began with workers using
liquid nitrogen
to remove seven layers of paint applied to the interior of the copper skin over the decades. That left two layers of
tar
originally applied to plug leaks and prevent corrosion. Blasting with
baking soda removed the tar without further damaging the copper. Larger
holes in the copper skin had edges smoothed then mated with new copper
patches. [ citation needed ]
Each of the 1,350 shaped iron ribs backing the skin had to be removed and replaced. The iron had experienced
galvanic corrosion
wherever it contacted the copper skin, losing up to 50% of its thickness. Bartholdi had anticipated the problem and used an
asbestos / pitch
combination to separate the metals, but the insulation had worn away decades before. New bars of
stainless steel
bent into matching shapes replaced the iron bars, with
Teflon
film separating them from the skin for further insulation and friction reduction.
The internal structure of the upraised right arm was reworked. The
statue was erected with the arm offset 18" (0.46 m) to the right and
forward of Eiffel's central frame, while the head was offset 24"
(0.61 m) to the left, which had been compromising the framework. Theory
held that Bartholdi made the modification without Eiffel's involvement
after seeing the arm and head were too close. Engineers considered
reinforcements made in 1932 insufficient and added diagonal bracing in
1984 and 1986 to make the arm structurally sound.
Besides the replacement of much of the internal iron with stainless
steel and the structural reinforcement of the statue itself, the
restoration of the mid-1980s also included the replacement of the
original torch with a replica, replacing the original iron stairs with
new stairs, installing a newer elevator within the pedestal, and
upgrading climate control systems. The Statue of Liberty was reopened
to the public on July 5, 1986 New torch
Original torch, replaced in 1986
A new torch replaced the original in 1986, which was deemed beyond
repair because of the extensive 1916 modifications. The 1886 torch is
now in the monument's lobby museum. The new torch has gold plating
applied to the exterior of the "flame," which is illuminated by
external lamps on the surrounding balcony platform . Dominion resolved by default
In 1987
US Representative
Frank J. Guarini , a Democrat from New Jersey, and
Gerald McCann , who was
Mayor of Jersey City , sued New York City, contending that New Jersey should have dominion over
Liberty Island
because it is in the New Jersey portion of the
Hudson River . The federally owned island is about 2,000 feet away from
Jersey City
and over two miles from New York City. [ 35 ]
By default—since the court chose not to hear the case—the existing
legal status of the portions of the island that are above water was
left unchanged. The
riparian rights
to all of the submerged land surrounding the statue belong to New
Jersey, however. The islands of New York harbor have been part of New
York since the issuance in 1664 of the atypical colonial charter that
created New Jersey,
[3]
which failed to provide a boundary in the middle of the Hudson
river—although the boundary line for the water rights later was moved
to the middle of the channel.
The federal park service states that the Statue of Liberty is on
Liberty Island, which is a federal property that is administered by the
National Park Service and that, officially, the island is located
within the territorial jurisdiction of the state of New York because of
a pact between the state governments of New York and New Jersey that
declared a resolution to this issue, which was ratified by Congress in
1834 Aftermath of 9/11
Main article:
Aftermath of the September 11, 2001 attacks
Liberty Island
closed on
September 11, 2001 ;
the island reopened in December, the monument reopened on August 3,
2004, but the statue has remained closed. The National Park Service
claims that the statue is not shut because of a terrorist threat, but
principally because of a long list of fire regulation contraventions,
including inadequate evacuation procedures. The museum and ten-story
pedestal are open for visitors but are only accessible if visitors have
a "Monument Access Pass" which is a reservation that visitors must make
in advance of their visit and pick up before boarding the ferry. There
is a maximum of 3,000 passes available each day (with a total of 15,000
visitors to the island daily). The interior of the statue remains
closed, although a glass ceiling in the pedestal allows for views of
Eiffel 's iron framework.
Visitors to Liberty Island and the Statue are subject to
restrictions, including personal searches similar to the security found
in
airports .
The Statue of Liberty had previously been threatened by terrorism, according to the FBI. On February 18, 1965, the
Federal Bureau of Investigation
(FBI) announced it had uncovered a plot by three commandos from the
Black Liberation Front , who were allegedly connected to
Cuba , and a female co-conspirator from
Montreal
connected with the
Front de libération du Québec
(FLQ), seeking
independence
for
Quebec
from Canada, who were sent to destroy the statue and at least two other national monuments — the
Liberty Bell
in
Philadelphia
and the
Washington Monument
in
Washington, D.C.
In June 2006, a bill, S. 3597, was proposed in
Senate
which, if approved, could re-open the crown and interior of the Statue of Liberty to visitors. [ 36 ]
In July 2007, a similar measure was proposed in the
House of Representatives . [ 37 ]
On August 9, 2006, National Park Service Director
Fran P. Mainella , in a letter to Congressman
Anthony D. Weiner
of New York stated that the crown and interior of the statue would
remain closed indefinitely. The letter stated that "the current access
patterns reflect a responsible management strategy in the best
interests of all our visitors." [ 38 ]
Critics contend that closing the Statue of Liberty indefinitely is an
overreaction, and that safe access could easily be resumed under
tighter security measures. [ citation needed ]
On January 23, 2009,
Ken Salazar ,
Secretary of the Interior
under President
Barack Obama ,
has stated that he is considering reopening the Statue of Liberty's
crown to tourists. "I hope we can find a way," Salazar said in a
statement. "It would proclaim to the world -- both figuratively and
literally -- that the path to the light of liberty is open to all."
[ 39 Jumps
At 2:45 p.m. on February 2, 1912,
steeplejack
Frederick R. Law successfully performed a
parachute jump
from the observation platform surrounding the torch. It was done with
the permission of the army captain administering the island.
The New York Times
reported that he "fell fully seventy-five feet [23 m] like a dead
weight, the parachute showing no inclination whatsoever to open at
first", but he then descended "gracefully", landed hard, and limped
away. [ 40 ]
The first suicide was May 13, 1929. The
Times
reported a
witness as saying the man, later identified as Ralph Gleason, crawled
out through one of the windows of the crown, turned around as if to
return, "seemed to slip" and "shot downward, bouncing off the breast of
the statue in the plunge." Gleason was killed when he landed on a patch
of grass at the base, just a few feet from a workman who was mowing the
grass. [ 41 ]
On August 23, 2001, French stuntman
Thierry Devaux
parasailed
onto the monument and got hung up on the statue's torch in a bungled attempt to
bungee jump
from it. He was not hurt and was charged with four
misdemeanor
offenses including trespassing.
[5] Replicas and derivative works
The French Statue of Liberty on the river Seine in Paris, France. Given
to the city in 1889, it faces southwest, downstream along the Seine.
Main article:
Replicas of the Statue of Liberty
Hundreds of other Statues of Liberty have been erected worldwide.
Boy Scouts of America
placed a small-scale replica of the Statue of Liberty at the Gentry
Building in Columbia, Missouri in 1950. Located at the Parks &
Recreation Administration Offices, at 7th and Broadway, the plaque
notes that the statue was dedicated as a pledge of everlasting fidelity
and loyalty. The local project was a component of the Scouts' national
40th anniversary celebration which had Strengthen the Arm of Liberty as
its theme. More than 200 replicas were placed nationally as a result.
[6]
There is also a replica statue in the middle of the Susquehanna
River near Harrisburg, PA. The statue is almost entirely white as
viewed from US-322 East and West going past the river. Another replica,
in Cape Girardeau, Missouri, stands at the entrance of Capaha Park.
Statue of Liberty replica at
Odaiba , overlooking the
Rainbow Bridge
in
Tokyo Bay .
There is a sister statue in Paris and several others elsewhere in France, including one in
Bartholdi's
home town of
Colmar ,
erected in 2004 to mark the centenary of Bartholdi's death; they also
exist in Austria, Germany, Italy, Japan, China, Brazil and Vietnam;
one existed in Hanoi
during French colonial days. There are replicas in theme parks and resorts, including the
New York-New York Hotel & Casino
in Las Vegas on
the Strip ,
replicas created as commercial advertising, and replicas erected in
U.S. communities by patriotic benefactors, including no less than two
hundred donated by Boy Scout troops to local communities. During the
Tiananmen Square protest of 1989 , Chinese student demonstrators in Beijing built a 10 m image called the
Goddess of Democracy ,
which sculptor Tsao Tsing-yuan said was intentionally dissimilar to the
Statue of Liberty to avoid being "too openly pro-American." [ 43 ]
At around the same time, a copy of this statue was made and displayed on
Connecticut Avenue
in
Washington, DC , in a small park across the street from the Chinese Embassy.
The torch-bearing statue planned in 1936 for the top of
Joseph Stalin 's
Palace of Soviets
(which was never atually erected) shows the influence of the New York statue.
The sculptor James Alexander Ewing's most prestigious commission was
for the carving of the Glasgow City Chambers' Jubilee Pediment, its
apex group of Truth, Riches and Honour, and the statues of The Four
Seasons on the building's tower. The figure of Truth is also known as
Glasgow's Statue of Liberty, due to its close resemblance to the
similarly posed, but very much larger, statue in New York harbour In popular culture
Main article:
The Statue of Liberty in popular culture
The Statue of Liberty is part of the New York
State Quarter
The Statue of Liberty is on the reverse of all
Presidential $1 coins
The Statue of Liberty quickly became a popular icon, featured in
scores of posters, pictures, motion pictures, and books. A 1911 O.
Henry story relates a fanciful conversation between "Mrs. Liberty" and
another statue; [ 44 ]
it figured in 1918 Liberty Loan posters. During the 1940s and 1950s,
pulp Science Fiction magazines featured Lady Liberty surrounded by
ruins or by the sediments of the ages.
It has been in dozens of motion pictures. It is a setting in the 1942
Alfred Hitchcock
movie
Saboteur ,
which featured a climactic confrontation at the statue. Half submerged
in the sand, the Statue provided the apocalyptic revelation at the end
of 1968's
Planet of the Apes . The statue became a character in the 1989 film,
Ghostbusters II , in which it comes to life and helps defeat the evil villain, and was the setting for the climax of the first
X-Men
film. It can also be seen lying broken on the ground in the movie
Independence Day , after the first wave of attacks by the extraterrestrial biological beings from outer space. In the 2004 movie
The Day After Tomorrow , the statue gets frozen, and in the 2008 movie
Cloverfield , it is decapitated by a giant monster; its head lands in a Manhattan street. In the film,
National Treasure: Book of Secrets , the sister statue in Paris provides a clue.
It was the subject of a 1978
University of Wisconsin-Madison
prank in which Lady Liberty appeared to be standing submerged in a frozen-over local lake. [ 45 ]
It has appeared on New York and New Jersey license plates, is used as a logo for the
NHL 's
New York Rangers
and the
WNBA 's
New York Liberty , and it was the subject of magician
David Copperfield 's
largest vanishing act. [ 46 ]
In 1982 Jessica Skinner was born inside the statue. Her mother went
into labor while climbing the stairs, and gave birth before she could
get back to ground level. [ 47 ]
The statue is often used as a comparative measurement (usually
referring to height rather than length) in books and documentaries
+  نوشته شده در  شنبه یکم فروردین ۱۳۸۸ساعت 14:47&nbsp توسط different class
|
صفحه نخست
پست الکترونیک
آرشیو وبلاگ
عناوین مطالب وبلاگ
نوشته های پیشین
شهریور ۱۳۸۸
مرداد ۱۳۸۸
تیر ۱۳۸۸
فروردین ۱۳۸۸
اسفند ۱۳۸۷
بهمن ۱۳۸۷
آذر ۱۳۸۷
پیوندها
● فناوری اطلاعات در عصر جدید
● English for you
● E n g l i s h _D a i l y
● NARRATOR
● دهکده ی زبان
● داستان های کوتاه انگلیسی
●دهکده زبان
● lovely city
● ماهواره ی امید را زنده ببینید
● وبلاگ کلاس 201
● المپیاد در رشد
● وبلاگ فارسی سامی یوسف
● دایرة المعارف بزرگ اسلامی
● مجتمع آموزشی شهید بهشتی بروجرد
● مرکز لرزه نگاری موسسه ژئوفیزیک دانشگاه تهران
● بانک صوت و فیلم مذهبی
● سمپاد
● شبکه رادیویی اینترنتی ایران صدا
● our magic teacher
● موتور جستجو گر msn
● وب سایتی برای دانلود کردن نرم افزار
● بانک مقالات علمی به زبان فارسی
● شبکه اطلاع رسانی اینترنتی تبیان
● وبلاگ یکی از دوستان عزیزم
● دانشنامه ویکی پدیا
● فروشگاه بزرگ اینترنتی eBay
●
Digital English
● آموزش زبان انگلیسی آنلاین
● English Pack
RSS
POWERED BY
BLOGFA.COM