New York City Cricket Guide
https://newyorkcitycricketguide.wordpress.com
New York City Cricket Guide to Walkabout Touring New York City facts, tidbits, photos, history, interesting stories
Mon, 19 Oct 2015 18:04:21 +0000
en
hourly
1
http://wordpress.com/
https://secure.gravatar.com/blavatar/5c1989e4168116ab76012fefa18ccf1b?s=96&d=https%3A%2F%2Fs2.wp.com%2Fi%2Fbuttonw-com.png
New York City Cricket Guide
https://newyorkcitycricketguide.wordpress.com
SNOW or sleet ……
https://newyorkcitycricketguide.wordpress.com/2014/11/14/snow-or-sleet/
https://newyorkcitycricketguide.wordpress.com/2014/11/14/snow-or-sleet/#comments
Fri, 14 Nov 2014 08:22:27 +0000
http://newyorkcitycricketguide.wordpress.com/?p=93
Continue reading
→ ]]>
So today 11/13/2014 NYC was issued a snow alert. Yet after reviewing multiple news sites, weather and news channels – the possibility of snow is on the VERRA SLIM side. Instead it looks as if it will be more of a frozen rain crud that just makes everything SUCK!!!.
I like snow, WELL I like playing in snow for the first day, after that its nasty looking, crappy and usually frozen into ICE. I also don’t like traveling in it
]]>
https://newyorkcitycricketguide.wordpress.com/2014/11/14/snow-or-sleet/feed/
0
cricketdiane
To eat or not to eat ….what’s the question that we are scared of
https://newyorkcitycricketguide.wordpress.com/2014/10/20/to-eat-or-not-to-eat-whats-the-question-that-we-are-scared-of/
https://newyorkcitycricketguide.wordpress.com/2014/10/20/to-eat-or-not-to-eat-whats-the-question-that-we-are-scared-of/#comments
Mon, 20 Oct 2014 03:10:41 +0000
http://newyorkcitycricketguide.wordpress.com/?p=90
Continue reading
→ ]]>
CARBS, SUGAR, VEGGIES AND FRUIT OH MY!
Let it be known that I am a SUGAR-Holic. I love sweets, it’s my weakness. What’s worse is, I hate exercising. Well I hate sweating and panting and huffing and puffing away. But I like cake, and ice cream and pastries.  I can walk for miles with no problems but to get me to the gym to work on my core is like pulling teeth. I have started to do more workouts at home in my ‘down time’ and stopped hitting sugar laced items so much in a day. *_*That means I hide my receipts for brownies and no-bake cookies, and stop myself from getting two scoops of ice cream and stick to one once a week.
Still that brings Me back to the question, what to eat? I try to make many things from scratch to avoid the chemicals and highly processed foods that can gunk up the veins. But at the same time I don’t always have the time, energy or desire to make stuff from scratch. So where does that leave me when I am trying to figure out what the hell is good or yummy to eat among the chemicals and nutrients that the foods can or should provide.
First I try to stay away from MSG, hydrogenated oils, high fructose corn syrup and other things that I have deemed not the thing I would want to eat or that someone at the table is allergic to eating. Garlic for instance, is an allergen for my mother and is in EVERYTHING practically. But I am not always making stuff for her to eat or for my daughter. Sometimes I am making it strictly for me to meet the various nutrient requirements I need – My veggies, fruits, proteins, and fats all have certain amounts I need to ensure that my body continues to work in correct order. I try to keep things simple and have my requirements all together every time I eat …..
– written by Kazz, guest author
]]>
https://newyorkcitycricketguide.wordpress.com/2014/10/20/to-eat-or-not-to-eat-whats-the-question-that-we-are-scared-of/feed/
0
cricketdiane
Loving the skin your in but arguing with your hair
https://newyorkcitycricketguide.wordpress.com/2014/10/18/loving-the-skin-your-in-but-arguing-with-your-hair/
https://newyorkcitycricketguide.wordpress.com/2014/10/18/loving-the-skin-your-in-but-arguing-with-your-hair/#comments
Sat, 18 Oct 2014 19:41:34 +0000
http://newyorkcitycricketguide.wordpress.com/?p=86
Continue reading
→ ]]>
As the weather in NYC gets decidedly cooler. I find myself applying lotion more often to keep my hands, knees and elbows from cracking or drying out. I can keep my and my family’s skin well moisturized with the wide array of lotion and smells. However, while I can keep my skin from drying out and cracking, my hair and that of my niece seems to be constantly fine and dry.
Oh we use various products, Organix oils, Moracan oils, Aragan Cremes – good conditioners and not washing your hair every time you bathe. Still our hair is fine, brittle and most often dry. I have taken my Ethnic friends advice on conditioning, oiling and maintaining dry frizzy hair. That’s not meant to be a racist comment BTW. Growing up in white communities I was taught very different on how to maintain my hair and what it was suppose to look  like from that of my Black, Hispanic and Asian   friends. I know growing up in the south very few if any of my Black friends would use VO5, but they did use Pink. Some of that is because up until a few years ago, that was the only ‘ethnic soap’ you could get, everything else was Pantene, Treseme, etc. When I came to NYC though, I found the market was bigger with more array of items available for EVERYONE. It was Fantastic. Yet even as I have had my hair corn-rolled with oils to keep my hair and scalp from drying, my hair still is dry and brittle most days.
But there is hope as I have learned and applied various items and techniques to my hair. One I stopped dying my hair as often -every 6 weeks. Now I try to get 12 weeks out before I HAVE to dye my hair. Its hard at 27 My original hair color is very grey and dull- some of it is from the years – 14+ years of dying my hair, and some of it is the unfortunate genetics and side effects of stress. i also blow dry and hot iron my hair, and even that I have tried to limit the expose I use for such. also anytime heat is applied to my hair i try to ensure that I am using some version of oil with a heat protector -Treseme’s hot ironing spray is wonderful, Bed Head’s Blow drying spray is another. And a spritz or two of the Olive oil sheen spray and I am happy with the results.
My niece how ever is decidedly a little more difficult, her hair is fine and dry and She doesn’t always listen to what you tell her to do with her hair. It has been contention for awhile to do her hair. She’s at the age where she wants to do it herself. I am at an age where I just want it done right the first time and move on from their. Still i find myself letting her do her own hair, as I do with my daughter who is younger. I get to the point where I will with both of them take over and finish it in the way i would like their hair to look. Dove Leave in treatments and Once a week hot oil treatments  do take away a portion of the arguments in doing my nieces hair. Still we argue about some hair styles that are just not yet possible. Its disappointing I know, even as I do her cousins hair in the hair style. We have discussed the importance of patience and persistence. Then we get another hair style just for her and make her feel just as special with extra bows and hair accessories.
so the moral of this story – what I learned as a kid while has some merit in my adult life – is maybe not the best skills I have learned. Take everyone’s opinion in and see what could work. Other people have dealt with dry hair, brittle hair and fine hair longer than I have and they do have some tried and true skills their. Keep an eye on whats in the market, as more people are being catered to through the market, many things from other countries and from other cultures are now being used and applied to the market. But always remember,   You have to try it before you bag it.
]]>
https://newyorkcitycricketguide.wordpress.com/2014/10/18/loving-the-skin-your-in-but-arguing-with-your-hair/feed/
0
cricketdiane
Fashion in the BIG City – a Different look at some old favorites
https://newyorkcitycricketguide.wordpress.com/2014/10/17/fashion-in-the-big-city-a-different-look-at-some-old-favorites/
https://newyorkcitycricketguide.wordpress.com/2014/10/17/fashion-in-the-big-city-a-different-look-at-some-old-favorites/#comments
Fri, 17 Oct 2014 16:21:56 +0000
http://newyorkcitycricketguide.wordpress.com/?p=82
Continue reading
→ ]]>
Living in New York City, Filled with Tourist, City Dwellers, various people from out side the city – It can be fun to “People Watch”
To see the various ways that People pair items, never really seeing the same thing twice. Of course you can see similar styles, but the pairings are completely unique to the people whose wearing them.
Sometimes you can see pieces that were inspired by the architecture that fills this wonderful city. Other times you can see the cultural influences – African dress to Hip-Hop and beyond. As Seasons come and go, one can watch the colors change with the styles. In spring skirts and blouses break in pretty pastels free of the winter bleakness. As summer approaches the spring colors get brighter and bolder until summer gets here and everything reflects to wonderful heat in the city. Slowly and too soon summer comes to and in and the bright colors are given way to deeper bolder colors of fall and then into winter again. However, Winter doesn’t mean greys and blacks with over size coats, winter gets the same wonderful colors of spring and summer, in shades paler or bolder almost as if we are reminiscent of the warmer days of past or yet to come.
Each year the styles change, some stay the same, others come back and some I wish would die and never be resurrected. As a woman, there are items that I wish women and men would think twice about wearing outside or wearing at all. While I am a true believer that anybody should be allowed to wear what ever makes them pretty, Sometimes I wish they would think about the colors, textures, lines and styles that flatter them and not what their favorite celebrities are wearing. Clothes are meant to be flattering to the form, but also you to your self pride and images that we have of our selves.
however while people watching, one group of women continue to surprise me and amuse me for their on going tenacity and struggle for style and fashion BBW (thats Big Beautiful Women) and even Big Men. Having been a big girl most of my life -through out high school, college and into some of my ongoing adult life – I know that finding clothes that make you feel youthful, fun, vibrant and not gloopy or maternal. Even as stores have started to really accommodate their growing clientel, it is still hard to find the styles and prices that the thinner clientel gets. Five dollar pants or a two dollar tank is almost ALWAYs two to three times that for sizes above ten, Yes I know that is argued by the reason that it takes more fabric to make, but really how much fabric is being used for something thats a scrap of material in the first place and tears after one washing?
Still I love watching BBW find and style their clothes in a way that has made me jealous, As I was never able to get such wonderful styles, colors and fashion to work for me. At a young age I found that black was my best color and has stayed my favorite color even as I have lost the weight that I felt terrorized me in my youth. and young adult life. As I struggle to get myself to wear other clothes of other colors, styles and fashion – I still get into that mind set of wanting to look like the magazines or some celebrity. When I catch myself doing that, I stop go find a bench somewhere in the busy city and People watch. I watch the business executives running around in suits trying to get the job done, The up and comers, whose got tattoos displayed and unique hair style that just screams individual. Even the tourist can bring me from a bleak mood of self deprivation – Its one of the best things about living in a Big city, you can always find a place to just stop, smell the roses and watch the styles pass and the seasons change.
]]>
https://newyorkcitycricketguide.wordpress.com/2014/10/17/fashion-in-the-big-city-a-different-look-at-some-old-favorites/feed/
0
cricketdiane
Another Nifty New York Viewpoint – Just A Little Perspective
https://newyorkcitycricketguide.wordpress.com/2011/04/15/another-nifty-new-york-viewpoint-just-a-little-perspective/
https://newyorkcitycricketguide.wordpress.com/2011/04/15/another-nifty-new-york-viewpoint-just-a-little-perspective/#comments
Fri, 15 Apr 2011 18:40:14 +0000
http://newyorkcitycricketguide.wordpress.com/?p=73
Continue reading
→ ]]>
xxx
cricketdiane10 - NY - Day 4 - 175-2 cricketdiane photography New York City
***
I’ve been working on a website for things like the photograph above to be made available for people who would like to use them for their own profit-making efforts to have a way to make those arrangements. This particular image might not be great on 50,000 dish towels, but I don’t know – I’d buy one. In fact, I’d love to see that kind of kitchen art from it. That would be pretty nifty.
Not everything is one the site yet, but if you’ve seen something on one of my blogs or the New York City CricketDiane Walkabout sites and would like to make arrangements to use it for some handy commercial purpose, let me know here or at the new site or by email.
– cricketdiana
***
CricketDiane & Cricket House Studios website –
http://www.cricketdiane.com/
***
And, don’t forget to take a look at The America the Beautiful Show project websites when you get a chance –
http://www.americathebeautifulshows.net/
this one has a lot of information about the project – but takes more time to take to explore it –
http://www.americathebeautifulshow.com/
***
Going back to work on the website some more and work with the twitter account where you can holler at me, if you want – well, don’t hooop and holler, but that is where I’ll be if anyone wants to say hello –
at the America the Beautiful Show twitter page –
@AmBeautifulShow
Lots of happenings lately. Much to do.
Later –
cricketdiane
***
By the way, this photo that either Kazz or I took in New York was one of my favorites. We both kept swapping cameras, so there is not any telling which at this point. I stuck the cricketdiane name on it to be able to put it online with the acknowledgment that we own it but I’m not sure which of us took this wonderful look straight up into the New York November Sky of City Reflections.
Hope you like it as much as I do. Have a great weekend.
**
]]>
https://newyorkcitycricketguide.wordpress.com/2011/04/15/another-nifty-new-york-viewpoint-just-a-little-perspective/feed/
0
cricketdiane10 - NY - Day 4 - 175-2 cricketdiane photography New York City
cricketdiane
cricketdiane10 - NY - Day 4 - 175-2 cricketdiane photography New York City
CricketDiane Walkabout in New York City and the most amazing
https://newyorkcitycricketguide.wordpress.com/2011/03/04/cricketdiane-walkabout-in-new-york-city-and-the-most-amazing/
https://newyorkcitycricketguide.wordpress.com/2011/03/04/cricketdiane-walkabout-in-new-york-city-and-the-most-amazing/#comments
Fri, 04 Mar 2011 08:04:20 +0000
http://newyorkcitycricketguide.wordpress.com/?p=65
Continue reading
→ ]]>
December 20, 2010
Walkabout New York City – Scenes of America
Posted by cricketdiane under
Cricket Diane C Sparky Phillips
| Tags:
America ,
cricketdiane ,
NYC
|
(edit this)
Leave a Comment
xx
Salvadore Dali sculpture at Times Warner Center NYC – cricketdiane walkabout NYC 2010
***
UN Center sculpture – cricketdiane NYC walkabout 2010
***
Grand Central Station Flag to America’s Heroes of 9-11 Tribute – cricketdiane walkabout New York City 2010 – (Flag of Heroes)
***
America
– from New York City – display of flags from around the world and
Statue of Liberty print “United We Stand” peter max – cricketdiane
walkabout New York City 2010
(from my cricketdiane blog – photos above taken by me in 2010 November New York City)
Walkabout New York City – Scenes of America
Dec. 20,2010
***
Flags in New York City November 2010 Thanksgiving - cricketdiane NY photo 2010
***
America's Flags in New York City Thanksgiving 2010 CricketDiane Walkabout in New York - cricketdiane NY photo 2010
***
My Note –
Everywhere – American flags and statements of honor for important
things, important ideas about America and about peace in New York,
sometimes in the most unexpected places. When I was there in November of
last year, it was the first time I had seen New York in person and what
surprised me most were the people of New York and the way they acted. I
did not expect them to be kind, but they were. I did not expect them to
take a moment to walk around my silliness taking a picture, but they
did. I didn’t expect them to stop and give me directions with the
patience of someone who genuinely cared, but they did. And, it wasn’t
just a few people or a few times that it happened. And, I know they see
(and put up with) millions of individual visitors every year.  It was
amazing.
Maybe I noticed it more – as my friend said, but I don’t think that
was it. I think that New York is genuinely changed from what it had been
long ago and people are more aware of their immediate surroundings,
they can afford to be kind because they’ve seen death so up close, so
personal, so near and never far away. I think they know what it is like
for it to matter so much in an instant – in any instant. And, it is
remarkable who they are now. It is genuinely remarkable.
Everywhere there were flags. American flags swayed from building
fronts, on tops of buildings, inside the Central Station’s grand
corridors, even on the walls of restaurants in some little nook or
cranny or on a shelf or above a counter. Sometimes it would be a
personal little reminder set on a shelf near where everyone worked and
passed while they were on their shift. Sometimes it would be that I
would come around a corner to be met by American flags floating in the
breeze proudly set into the brackets on a building above an entrance.
And, some flags were simply reaching up to the sky above all the
buildings displayed for all the world to see. I was truly amazed by it.
And, I was most amazed because they were not a show to show something,
nor to prove something and didn’t even seem to be there as a point to be
made. There was a genuineness about it and a caring honestly portrayed.
When I stopped to take photographs of the flags, people stopped and
looked at them and nodded like they just knew why it was important and
why it is important even now. It just is.
– cricketdiane
***
America's Flags Fly Proudly In New York City - CricketDiane NY photo 2010
***
]]>
https://newyorkcitycricketguide.wordpress.com/2011/03/04/cricketdiane-walkabout-in-new-york-city-and-the-most-amazing/feed/
0
cricketdiane
cricketdiane10 - NY Day 2-3 samsung 019_cr-1 - Salvadore Dali sculpture at Times Warner Center NYC - cricketdiane walkabout NYC 2010
cricketdiane10 - NY - Day 4 - casio 019_cr - UN Center sculpture - cricketdiane NYC walkabout 2010
Grand Central Station Flag to America's Heroes of 9-11 Tribute - cricketdiane walkabout New York City 2010
America - from New York City - display of flags from around the world and Statue of Liberty print "United We Stand" peter max - cricketdiane walkabout New York City 2010
Flags in New York City November 2010 Thanksgiving - cricketdiane NY photo 2010
America's Flags in New York City Thanksgiving 2010 CricketDiane Walkabout in New York - cricketdiane NY photo 2010
America's Flags Fly Proudly In New York City - CricketDiane NY photo 2010
The Century Club New York – and the things they fuss over
https://newyorkcitycricketguide.wordpress.com/2011/02/10/the-century-club-new-york-and-the-things-they-fuss-over/
https://newyorkcitycricketguide.wordpress.com/2011/02/10/the-century-club-new-york-and-the-things-they-fuss-over/#comments
Thu, 10 Feb 2011 12:40:52 +0000
http://newyorkcitycricketguide.wordpress.com/?p=59
Continue reading
→ ]]>
New York’s Elite Fight About The Important Things – And, the Century Club history
http://www.nytimes.com/2011/02/10/nyregion/10century-club.html
The victors are quick to acknowledge that the experience has taken a toll. Inside the West 43rd Street clubhouse, amid the
Renaissance-style architecture , the sting of harsh words uttered throughout the process remains fresh.
Much remains unchanged, of course: the dinning room still swells with pinstripe suits at lunchtime, vodka martinis are ordered and
the beloved Century macaroons
are devoured, but the mood has changed.
After recent in-fighting over whether to withdraw reciprocity agreements with a London club that only admits women when accompanied by a man to their club facilities, the Garrick.
That article is from today, Feb. 10, 2011 in the NY Times, but it could’ve been from a hundred years ago.
– cricketdiane
**
Not only is this a place that tourists never see, most Americans would never see the inside of this club either – nor would most New Yorkers, but I bet they should.
(my note)
**
An interesting note or two about the Century Club in New York –
Stanford White, architect – (of an earlier location)
He designed and decorated
Fifth Avenue
mansions for the
Astors , the
Vanderbilts
(in 1905), and other high society families. His
Washington Square Arch
still stands in
Washington Square Park , and so do many of his clubs, which were focal points of New York society: the Century, Metropolitan, Players, Lambs, Colony and Harmonie clubs. His clubhouse for the
Atlantic Yacht Club , built in 1894 overlooking
Gravesend Bay , burned down in 1934. Sons of society families also resided in White’s
St. Anthony Hall
Chapter House at Williams College (now occupied by college offices).
[1] [2]
Pictured at:
[3]
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stanford_White
***
Construction of the arch
Washington Square Arch framing the Empire State Building
In 1889, to celebrate the centennial of
George Washington ‘s inauguration as
president
of the
United States , a large plaster and wood
Memorial Arch
was erected over Fifth Avenue just north of the park. The temporary plaster and wood arch was so popular that in 1892 a permanent
marble
arch, designed by the New York architect
Stanford White , was erected, standing 77 feet (23 m) was built just inside the park. During the excavations for the eastern leg of the arch, human remains, a coffin and a gravestone dated 1803 were uncovered 10 feet (3 m) below ground level. [4]
The inscription on the arch reads:
Let us raise a standard to which the wise and the honest can repair. The event is in the hand of God. — Washington
White modeled the arch after the 1806
Arc de Triomphe
in Paris. In 1918 two statues of George Washington were added to the north side.
The first fountain was completed in 1852. The fountain was replaced in 1872. The monument to Giuseppe Garibaldi was unveiled in 1888. [4]
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Washington_Square_Arch#Construction_of_the_arch
**
1900        May 22, The Associated Press (founded in 1848) was incorporated in New York as a non-profit news cooperative.
(AP, 5/22/00)
http://timelines.ws/cities/NYC_B.HTML
Timeline for NYC from 1900 – 1949
Just noticed this and thought I would add it here, (my note)
**
In 1845, the club’s first clubhouse was established — a modest,
Gothic-revival
building in
Hoboken, New Jersey , on land donated by Commodore Stevens. After the club outgrew the little building, it moved to various locations, including Staten Island,
Glen Cove, New York
and
Mystic, Connecticut , before reaching its current Newport location on the grounds of “Harbour Court.”
Its primary
clubhouse
is a six-storied
Beaux-Arts
landmark
with a nautical-themed limestone facade, located at 37 West 44th Street in midtown
Manhattan . Opened in 1901, it was designed by
Warren and Wetmore , architects of the exterior of
Grand Central Terminal . The centerpiece of the clubhouse is the “Model Room,” which contains the world’s largest collection of full and half hull models[ citation needed ]. It was designated a
National Historic Landmark
in 1987. [2] [3] [4]
In addition to its landlocked Manhattan headquarters, the club maintains “Harbour Court,” a clubhouse opened in 1988 on the water in Newport.
History
The Yacht ‘America’ Winning the International Race , 1851,
Fitz Henry Lane
The New York Yacht Club was founded on July 30, 1844 by nine gentlemen.
John Cox Stevens , the leader of this group, and a prominent citizen of New York with a passion for sport, was elected commodore. George L. Schuyler and Hamilton Wilkes were also NYYC founders that, together with Stevens and two others, created the syndicate that built and raced the great schooner-yacht,
America . Wilkes served as the club’s first vice-commodore. Schuyler played a key role in the founding of the
America’s Cup
regatta , and served as its unofficial consultant until his death in 1890.
Noted Members
John 	Cox Stevens
JP 	Morgan
President 	Franklin D. Roosevelt
James 	Gordon Bennett, Jr.
Jay 	Gould
Elbridge 	Thomas Gerry
August 	Belmont
John 	Jacob Astor
Vincent 	Astor
George 	F. Baker
Ted 	Turner
David 	Rockefeller
Walter 	Cronkite
William 	F. Buckley
Gary 	Jobson
Dennis 	Conner
Alfred 	Walton Hinds , 17th
Naval 	Governor of Guam
Robert 	Mosbacher
Harold 	Stirling Vanderbilt
Thomas 	Watson, Jr.
Alfred 	P. Sloan
Olin 	Stephens
Bernard 	Madoff
(resigned)
Senator 	Chris Dodd
Dennis 	Kozlowski
(resigned)
Governor 	Pete DuPont
John 	Lehman , Secretary of the Navy
Ted 	Kennedy Jr
Mayor 	Mike Bloomberg
Robert 	H. Conn , Assistant Secretary of the Navy
ADM Gary 	Roughead , Chief of Naval Operations
***
List 	of American gentlemen’s clubs
(from)
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/New_York_Yacht_Club
**
Century Association
The
Century Association
is a
New York City
club
with a distinguished history. It evolved out an an earlier organization – the Sketch Club, founded in 1829 by editor and poet
William Cullen Bryant
and his friends – and was established in 1847 by Bryant and others as a club to promote interest in the fine arts and literature [3]
which was open to “Artists, Literary Men, Scientists, Physicians, Officers of the Army and Navy, members of the Bench and Bar, Engineers, Clergymen, Representatives of the Press, Merchants and men of leisure.” [4]
It was originally intended to have a limited membership of 100 men. [3]
Its early members included Bryant, painters
Asher Durand ,
Winslow Homer , and
John Frederick Kensett , architect
Stanford White , judge
Charles Patrick Daly
[5] , author
Lewis Gaylord Clark
[4]
and architect
Calvert Vaux , [6]
the co-creator with
Frederick Law Olmstead
of
Central Park . However, by the middle 1850s, the membership primarily consisted of merchants, businessmen, lawyers and doctors. [4]
The Century possesses a notable art collection, including important works by Asher Durand,
Thomas Cole ,
Thomas Doughty , and other
Hudson River School
painters. It is also an important venue for the exhibition of contemporary art created by its members.
In 1989, after a strenuous legal battle, the club began admitting women members. [7] [8]
(etc.)
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Century_Association
***
Some Avenue Clubs In The Early Days
( Originally Published 1918 )
http://www.oldandsold.com/articles08/fifth-avenue-7.shtml
By virtue of its descent from the Sketch and the Column, the Century Association might lay claim to seniority among the clubs of Fifth Avenue. The Sketch Club was the result of the union of the literary and artistic elements of New York, which, in 1829, were producing an annual called ” The Talisman.” Among the writers in the Sketch were Bryant, Verplanck, and Sands, and later Washington Irving and J. K. Paulding joined it. There was no regular home, the club meeting at the houses of members in turn.
For six months, during 1830, it did not exist, having been dissolved in May of that year, and reorganized in December. Thereafter, for a few years, it met in the Council Room of the National Academy of Design, and then returned to the custom of meeting at the homes of the members. That organization was the embryo Century. The Sketch Club had first taken form in 1829. Four years before that a society called the Column had been established by graduates of Columbia College. That organization, too, had a share in the moulding of the new club.
The meeting that brought the Century into being was held the evening of January 13, 1847, in the rotunda of the New York Gallery of Fine Arts in the City Hall Park. The call for the meeting had been sent out a few weeks before, the men composing the signing committee being John G. Chapman, A. B. Durand, C. C. Ingham, A. M. Cozzens, F. W. Edmonds, and H. T. Tuckerman. The original Centurions were forty-two in number, of whom twenty-five came from the Sketch, and six from the Column. There were ten artists, ten merchants, four authors, three bankers, three physicians, two clergymen, two lawyers, one editor, one diplomat, and three men of leisure. All were more or less representative men of the city, which had grown from the town of three hundred and fifty thousand of the day of the Union’s formation, to a young metropolis of six hundred thousand. Gulian C. Verplanck was the club’s first president, and back in his day began the Century’s peculiar Twelfth Night Festival, which has been continued ever since. Twelfth Night with the Centurions is distinctive in that it is not an annual event nor the event of any given year. The very uncertainty of the ceremonial has added zest to the revel, which usually ends with an old-fashioned Virginia Reel. A few years ago the reel was led by Theodore Roosevelt and the late Joseph H. Choate.
(also)
There was almost a Bostonese austerity about the great men of that early time and circle. They wore their garments as Roman Senators wore their togas. It was not good form for the stranger to break lightly into the talk of the Immortals. To have done so would have been to provoke the amazement and censure that was the lot of Mark Twain many years after, when, at a dinner in the Hub, he sought to jest irreverently with the sacred names of Holmes, Emerson, and Longfellow. Again try to fancy the shy, eccentric, improvident genius of ” Ulalume,” ” The Bells,” and ” The Fall of the House of Usher ” at ease in a company that, while delightful, was all propriety and solid intellectuality. No, Poe would no more have fitted into the Century than Balzac or Zola would have fitted into the French Academy which so persistently denied them. And, to be perfectly frank, had the writer been a Centurion of that period, and had the name of Edgar Allan Poe come up for election, he might have been one of the first to drop a black pill in the box, loudly acclaiming the genius, but deploring the impossible and unclubable personality.
(etc.) there’s more, very interesting things about it in this literature.
The first part describes how a relative ensured the membership of his kin by having fellow members place black balls in the votes for other members under consideration at the same time (it was probably for the Union Club – but it is very interesting and probably a common practice.) – my note
(from)
http://www.oldandsold.com/articles08/fifth-avenue-7.shtml
***
]]>
https://newyorkcitycricketguide.wordpress.com/2011/02/10/the-century-club-new-york-and-the-things-they-fuss-over/feed/
1
cricketdiane
New York Historical Context of Space and Buildings – The New York Genealogical and Biographical Society founding
https://newyorkcitycricketguide.wordpress.com/2011/01/23/new-york-historical-context-of-space-and-buildings-the-new-york-genealogical-and-biographical-society-founding/
https://newyorkcitycricketguide.wordpress.com/2011/01/23/new-york-historical-context-of-space-and-buildings-the-new-york-genealogical-and-biographical-society-founding/#comments
Sun, 23 Jan 2011 01:01:51 +0000
http://newyorkcitycricketguide.wordpress.com/?p=33
Continue reading
→ ]]>
Some photos that I had taken of a building in New York City that at one time housed the Genealogical Society . . .
The building for the New York Genealogical and Biographical Society Library and Headquarters at 122 East 58th Street New York City was built in 1928 - cricketdiane photo 2010
Over the doorway of this building is a stone-cut placard for the New York Genealogical Society. It appears over the doorway in the center of the photo’s view but to the left of what appears to be the main entrance.
Looking up at the entire building facade, I took another photo to look up the building and the Society later. I was very excited to have found it. Apparently, the Society was originally created in 1869 and chartered in 1870. It was willing to allow women to be members and is the second oldest Genealogical Society founded in the United States. The oldest is the one in New England.
A second photo of the entire building facade from the street –
This elegant building facade highlights several distinct architectural elements from arched window casings and flourishes to the stone of its base and little windows beside the doors with diamond paneled and probably beveled windows. cricketdiane photo 2010
From the wikipedia entry, I noted a couple things immediately –
The New York Genealogical and Biographical Society was organized on the
evening of February 27, 1869, by seven gentlemen meeting at the home of
Dr. David Parsons Holton in
New York City .
A caption under the photo provided says this –
The former G&B Library and Headquarters at 122 East 58th Street; the building was built in 1928.
And on the first line of the entry is indicated that its location is currently somewhere else –
The New York Genealogical and Biographical Society
(NYGBS) is a
non-profit
educational institution located at 36 West 44th Street in
New York City . Founded in 1869, it is the second-oldest genealogical society in the
United States . Its purpose is to collect and make available information on
genealogy ,
biography , and
history , particularly as it relates to the people of
New York State . The Society also publishes
periodicals
and books, conducts educational programs, maintains a Committee on
Heraldry , and offered several other services.
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/New_York_Genealogical_and_Biographical_Society
This had been the main library and headquarters for the New York Genealogical and Biographical Society 59 years after their inception in February of 1869. It is the second oldest genealogical society in the United States and includes a section on heraldry and history. - from wikipedia
When I was in New York, I took a photo of the placard which had been cut into what appears to be marble. It is not as clear as I would’ve liked, but it was taken to remind me to look it up when I came home, because both the building and the genealogical society were so exciting to find . . .
This photo that I took while in New York shows a space for a cartouche or seal for the society along with the placard announcing the headquarters and original library for the New York Genealogical and Biographical Society.
It isn’t clear if the words were inscribed into the marble or set upon it in this photograph, however, it does look like at one time there had been a seal on the door. The stonework at the base of the building is massive and incredibly done. The columns in the facade are in bas relief and the windows at the top of the arched brick spaces actually have a curved upper casing on them which is very expensive and very unusual. There is a mansard roof and along the upper floor, it seems there is a walkway or thin balcony with intricately detailed stone spindles. A medallion flourish in stone sets above the upper windows like a globe of the world with silk banners made in stone coming from it. On either side of the top gallery windows, there is a specialized design created in the bricks with a diamond pattern set into a square made of the brickwork itself.
A quick google search to get some context – 1869 when the genealogical society was created was four years after the end of the Civil War and the assassination of President Lincoln.
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/American_Civil_War
The
American Civil War
(1861–1865), also known as the
War Between the States
(among
other names ), [ . . . ]
(and)
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Assassination_of_Abraham_Lincoln
United States
President
Abraham Lincoln
was assassinated on April 14, 1865, as the
American Civil War
was drawing to a close, just five days after the surrender of the commanding general of the Confederate army,
Robert E. Lee , and his battered
Army of Northern Virginia
to General
Ulysses S. Grant ‘s Union forces. Lincoln was shot while watching a play at
Ford’s Theatre
in Washington, D.C., and died the next morning. (General Grant and his wife were to be at the theater and at her insistence did not go, my note).
(and this from a timeline for New York from 1860 – 1921)
**
1860
27 February.
In a
speech 	at the Cooper Institute
in New York,
Abraham 	Lincoln
attacks slavery and insists that the Federal government 	has “the power of restraining the extension of the 	institution.”
1865
31 January.
Congress passes the Thirteenth 	Amendment, which abolishes slavery.
4 March . Lincoln is inaugurated for his 	second term; his “Second Inaugural” speech is justly 	famous for its appeal to bind up the wounds of the nation.
8 April.
Civil War officially ends when Lee 	surrenders to Grant at Appomattox Court House. The terms are 	generous: Confederate soldiers may keep their side arms and 	possessions, and Grant orders 25,000 rations to be distributed. The 	terms are written for the men’s signatures by Colonel Eli Parker, a 	Seneca Indian on Grant’s staff (Ward 379). The Army of Northern 	Virginia formally surrenders three days later.
14 April.
While watching
Our American 	Cousin
at Ford’s Theater, Lincoln is shot by John Wilkes Booth 	and dies the following day.
1866
13-27 	July
.
Atlantic cable 	is completed.
30 April.
Congress passes the Civil Rights Bill of 1866.
First appearance of a 5-cent coin, soon called “the 	nickel.”
1867
31 January.
All 	males over 21 are granted suffrage in US territories
2 March.
First 	Reconstruction Act passed over the president’s veto; the second is 	passed on March 23.
30 March.
Secretary of State Seward 	purchases Alaska from Russia  for $7.2 million.  	Congressional critics call this “Seward’s Folly.”
1868
13 March-6 May . 	Impeachment trial of President Andrew Johnson ends in his acquittal.
Custer moves against Chief Black 	Kettle, destroying an Indian village and all its inhabitants.
28 July.
Ratification 	of the Fourteenth Amendment grants full citizenship to all 	(including African Americans) born in the US except Native 	Americans.
3 November. Ulysses S. Grant and his vice-presidential 	candidate, Schuyler Colfax, are elected by a landslide.
1869
Ulysses S. Grant becomes president 	(1869-77).
10 May.
Union 	Pacific-Central Pacific transcontinental railroad is completed as 	the two lines meet at Promontory Point, Utah.
Wyoming passes first woman’s 	suffrage act.
Susan B. Anthony elected president 	of the American Equal Rights Association.
Number of justices on the Supreme 	Court rises from 7 to 9.
Elizabeth Cady Stanton elected 	president of the National Woman Suffrage Association, which demands 	federal voting rights for women.
First Sioux War ends with the 	Treaty of Fort Laramie; the US agrees to abandon Forts Smith, 	Kearney, and Reno.
24 September . Earlier in the year, Jay Gould 	and Jay Fisk attempted to drive up the price of gold and corner the 	market.  On this day, “Black Friday,”  President 	Grant releases $4 million and drives the price down, an action that 	causes a stock-market panic.
http://www.wsu.edu/~campbelld/amlit/1860.htm
(and this little bit from another timeline -)
1869
Wyoming passes the first law in the United States giving women the right to vote
1871
Yellowstone Park is created. Pressed by a growing agitation for the conservation of the badly exploited natural resources of the country, Congress begins to reverse its wholesale giveaway programs and creates the park as a public preserve in Wyoming.
1874
The Womenís Christian Temperance Union is formed.
1876
Frederick Law Olmsted completes the Central Park in New York City.
1878
The Women’s Suffrage Amendment is introduced into Congress.
1881
President Hayes, whose wife is nicknamed Lemonade Lucy because she serves no alcohol in the White House, decrees that no alcoholic beverages are to be sold at military posts.
1881
James Garfield is inaugurated president, and Chester A. Arthur becomes vice president.
1881
James Garfield is assassinated by a madman named Charles Guiteau.
1881
Tuskegee Normal and Industrial Institute is founded by Booker T. Washington. At Tuskegee Washington advocates an education limited to vocational skills, and from this base,Washington rises to national prominence.
1885
The American Economic Association is established. A number of young economists have become disillusioned with the premises standing behind the philosophy of laissez-faire. The organization is the first economic group to argue that the state must contribute actively in the way of “positive aid” to the just progress of its citizens. These economists contend that unless concerted efforts are made to prevent further degradation of the new class of workers, the American dream will turn into a nightmare of class warfare. Woodrow Wilson and Henry Adams are among the 186 founding members.
1887
The Interstate Commerce Act is passed by Congress and signed into law. A five man commission is created to see that rates are just and “reasonable;” to forbid double-tiered rates for long and short hauls on freight carriers; to stop discriminatory rates between competitive and non-competitive localities and to stop the practice of pooling.
1888
Congress establishes a Department of Labor.
1888
Benjamin Harrison is elected president of the United States, and Levi Morton becomes vice president.
1889
Frederick Winslow Taylor develops his principles of scientific management. His book, The Principles of Scientific Management (1911) is widely read by managers.
1890
The National Womenís Suffrage Association and the American Women’s Suffrage Association, both formed in 1869, merge to consolidate the women’s suffrage movement.
1890
Sherman Anti-trust Act is passed. It makes illegal “every contract, combination in the form of trust or otherwise, or conspiracy, in restraint of trade or commerce among the several states, or with foreign nations.”
1893
President Cleveland is inaugurated for a second term.
1895
U.S. v. E.C. Knight Co. The Supreme Court finds that the Sherman Anti-Trust Act is applicable only to monopolies involved in interstate trade. Ruling that a sugar combine is beyond the law, the Court draws a fine line between manufacturing and commerce. This ruling temporarily renders the Sherman Anti-Trust Act, which had been designed to regulate all forms of trusts, useless.
1896
McKinley wins the presidential election. Garret Hobart is vice president.
1900
McKinley wins a second term as president. Theodore Roosevelt is vice president.
1901
President McKinley is shot by Anarchist Leon Czolgosz as he attends a reception in Buffalo. He dies a week later of his wounds.
1902
Publication of Ida Tarbellís muckraking exposé, The History of the Standard Oil Company. Along with other such publications as Frank Norris’ The Octopus, Lincoln Steffens’ The Shame of the Cities, journalists will have a direct impact on the course of political action.
1904
Northern Securities Co. v. U. S.  The Supreme Court finds that the company violates the Sherman Anti-Trust Act. This is the first case that Roosevelt has undertaken in his campaign to bring big business within the restraint of law.
1904
Theodore Roosevelt is elected president. Charles W. Fairbanks becomes vice president.
1906
Meat Inspection Act and Pure Food and Drug Act are  passed by Congress, largely due to the of Upton Sinclairís muckraking book, The Jungle.
1908
William Howard Taft is elected president, and James S. Sherman is vice president.
1909
The NAACP is founded by W.E.B. DuBois.
1912
Woodrow Wilson is elected president, and Thomas R. Marshall becomes vice president.
1913
The 16th Amendment to the Constitution is adopted by the nation, providing the necessary legal basis for a graduated income tax.
1913
The Owen-Glass Federal Reserve Act is passed. It creates 12 regional Federal Reserve Banks, and all national banks are forced to join the system. A Federal Reserve Board is created to manage the new network.
1916
Woodrow Wilson is reelected for a second term. Thomas Marshall is vice president.
1916
The Keating-Owen Act, limiting child labor, is passed by Congress, but the Supreme Court declares the Act unconstitutional in Hammer v. Dagenhart (1918).
1920
The 19th Amendment to the Constitution, giving women suffrage, is enacted.
(AND the infamous Prohibition Act which outlawed alcohol – )
1919
The 18th Amendment to the Constitution is passed, instituting the Prohibition of alcohol. The Volstead Act will be passed to enforce Prohibition.
(from a progressivism and populism focused timeline of the years during which the New York Genealogical Society was formed)
http://www.pinzler.com/ushistory/timeline8.html
(there are a lot more entries and it is all very fascinating actually, my note)
**
A bit more from the entry in wikipedia about the New York Genealogical and Biographical Society building – including a note about the fact that the statue of Christopher Columbus in New York was commissioned and placed by the Society.
When I was studying many of the Clubs which had formed in New York around the same time period – 1869 (more or less), General Grant’s name appears on many of the membership lists, among others which is also very interesting about New York City at the time.
The Society’s first permanent home was at Mott Memorial Hall, a house
at 64 Madison Avenue. In 1888 the Society obtained space in the
Berkeley Lyceum Building at 19 West 41st Street, and two years later
moved to the new Berkeley Lyceum building at 23 West 44th Street. In
1891 Mrs. Elizabeth Underhill Coles died, leaving the Society a bequest
of $20,000. With this money the Society was able to purchase in 1896 a
four-story brownstone at 226 West 58th Street, between Broadway and
Seventh Avenue. This became Genealogical Hall, the home of the Society
for the next 33 years.
The Society’s former building held many mementos of Genealogical
Hall. There was a plaque in the lobby commemorating Mrs. Coles’ gift,
and the library was graced by a beautiful stained-glass window which was
presented to the Society by the Record Committee in 1898. The window
was installed in the Library until 1929 and then languished in storage
until 1992, when it was carefully restored and installed in a north
window of the library, largely due to the generosity of then president
Henry S. Middendorf.
One of the Society’s most ambitious early projects was the erection of a statue of
Christopher Columbus
on the Mall in New York’s
Central Park . The statue was unveiled in 1894 as part of the Columbus quadricentennial, and it can still be seen in the Park today. [1]
(from :
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/New_York_Genealogical_and_Biographical_Society
)
When I was in New York, I took a number of pictures of the statue of Christopher Columbus which was amazing to me and then to find out that these are the people responsible for it existing at all – truly amazing. I was totally wrong – this one is Columbus Circle –
Here is one of the pictures I took of the statue when I was there  –
Statue of Christopher Columbus in New York City, Columbus Circle by Time Warner Center - cricketdiane photo 2010 - not the one commissioned by the New York Genealogical and Biographical Society in 1894 as I had thought.
Because I was there during the holiday season around Thanksgiving, I was able to get this wonderful photograph of the statue from the arcade windows of Time Warner Center with its beautiful artistic star diamonds hanging in the atrium –
The view of Christopher Columbus stands sentinel in the Columbus Circle space beyond the Times Warner Center atrium - cricketdiane photo 2010
***
The view of Christopher Columbus stands sentinel in the Central Park space beyond the Times Warner Center atrium - cricketdiane photo 2010
One of the Society’s most ambitious early projects was the erection of a statue of
Christopher Columbus
on the Mall in New York’s
Central Park . The statue was unveiled in 1894 as part of the Columbus quadricentennial, and it can still be seen in the Park today. [1]
(and that statue is not it either – see near the end of this post for more information about both sculptures.)
(from entry in wikipedia about the New York Genealogical and Biographical Society)
***
A little more about the time period when the Society was formed – this from the owner of the largest New York newspaper of the time – a fairly sensationalist news paper, however it did fund the 1869 expedition to Africa and another to the North Pole –
Bennett was educated primarily in
France . In 1866, the elder Bennett turned control of the
Herald
over to him. Bennett raised the paper’s profile on the world stage when he provided the financial backing for the 1869 expedition by
Henry Morton Stanley
into
Africa
to find
David Livingstone
in exchange for the
Herald
having the exclusive account of Stanley’s progress.
He was a co-founder of the
Commercial Cable Company , a venture to break the Transatlantic cable monopoly held by
Jay Gould .
Settling in
Paris , (it doesn’t mention what year, my note),  he launched the Paris edition of the New York Herald, titled
The Paris Herald , the forerunner of the
International Herald Tribune .
He backed
George W. DeLong ‘s voyage to the
North Pole
via the
Bering Strait . The ill-fated expedition led to the starvation deaths of DeLong and 19 of his crew, a tragedy that only increased the paper’s circulation.
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/James_Gordon_Bennett,_Jr .
(my note – sounds about like the National Geographic Society, I wonder when that was created – I’ll look it up . . . )
James Gordon Bennett, Jr.
(May 10, 1841 – May 14, 1918) was publisher of the
New York Herald , founded by his father,
James Gordon Bennett, Sr. , who immigrated from
Scotland . He was generally known as Gordon Bennett to distinguish him from his father. [1]
New York ,
New York
map
Date
1894
timeline
Building Type
corporate headquaters
Climate
temperate
Context
urban
Style
Renaissance Revival
Notes
Photo, exterior overview, historical
based on the Palazzo del Lonsiglio in Verona, Italy.
http://www.greatbuildings.com/buildings/New_York_Herald_Building.html
in New York City today, the statue and owls from the top of this building designed in 1895 for the Herald Newspaper's company headquarters now reside in the triangular park called Herald Square. It is part of the environment where the New York Genealogical and Biographical Society was originally formed and influenced to go forward with their mission.
Under Bennett’s son,
James Gordon Bennett, Jr. , the paper financed
Henry Morton Stanley ‘s expeditions into
Africa
to find
David Livingstone , where they met on November 10, 1871. [3]
The paper also supported
Stanley’s trans-Africa exploration , and in 1879 supported the ill-fated expedition of
George W. DeLong
to the
arctic
region.
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/New_York_Herald
***
There is more about the Genealogical Society creating the building which is in the pictures I took in New York – Hmmmm……..
By 1912 Genealogical Hall was already inadequate to hold the library,
and the Trustees decided to try to raise $65,000 to acquire the
adjacent building lot for expansion.
J. Pierpont Morgan
contributed $10,000 on the condition that the Society raise the
remainder, and this was accomplished by the end of 1913, mainly through
the efforts of president Clarence Winthrop Bowen. Various factors
intervened to prevent the proposed expansion, and Mr. Bowen was still
president 16 years later when the Society moved across town into its
former building at 122-124-126 East 58th Street.
The new facility, erected at a cost of $300,000, replaced three
brownstone houses on the site. It was designed by the noted New York
architectural firm of
La Farge, Warren and Clark . The formal dedication
on December 11, 1929, was attended by an impressive list of dignitaries,
headed by former President of the United States
Calvin Coolidge
and former Governor of New York and Secretary of State (and future Chief Justice of the United States)
Charles Evans Hughes .
The new building provided impressive and ample space for the growth
of the library. Over the years the Society had also expanded its
publications program. By 1929 each issue of the Record ran over 100
pages, and it had become recognized as one of the leading scholarly
journals of genealogy. Since 1890 the Society had also published several
volumes of its Collections, starting with the marriage and baptismal
registers of New York State’s oldest church, the Reformed Dutch Church
of New Amsterdam and New York City.
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/New_York_Genealogical_and_Biographical_Society
**
Some interesting bits of information from the wikipedia page including where the materials ended up being donated to the New York Public Library and where the current offices for the New York Genealogical and Biographical Society are located –
When the Society was founded in 1869, the only New Yorkers who had an
interest in tracing their roots, or the time to do so, were those whose
lineages stretched back to the colonial period, and the Society for its
first hundred years catered almost exclusively to that part of the
population. Even among those with colonial ancestry, however, there were
relatively few who had more than a passing interest in their family
history. Genealogy remained a rather obscure hobby and its status as a
profession was even more tenuous.
In the mid-1990s genealogy began to undergo a “sea change” with the
advent of the Internet. The numbers of people who were pursuing
genealogy skyrocketed as a result. [ citation needed ]
The Society joined this new world in December 1998 when it launched its
own website, nygbs.org (now newyorkfamilyhistory.org). It has been
immensely popular and has brought many new members to the organization,
particularly after the Society contracted with
ProQuest
to give members home access to The
New York Times
and HeritageQuest Online. The site has been completely redesigned twice
since its inauguration, and will continue to be updated and expanded.
The wonderful old building was showing its age and in need of major
rehabilitation and upgrades. This reality, combined with the ongoing
decline in patron visits, brought the Board of Trustees to the
difficult, but forward looking decision to sell the building and combine
our wonderful library collection with that of the New York Public
Library. The building was sold to one of our tenants in November 2007
and in September 2008 the bulk of our collection was transferred to the
Public Library’s Irma & Paul Milstein Division of United States
History, Local History, and Genealogy, thus instantly transforming that
collection into the premiere repository for New York genealogical
research. Much of the G&B collection is already available and the
entire collection should be fully cataloged and available for inspection
by fall 2010.
Accordingly, the Society’s membership no longer has voting rights on
the organization’s plans and direction. Plans for the future of the
library and collections were announced in July, 2008.
The Society’s
library of 75,000 published works, 30,000 manuscripts, 22,000
microforms, 1,300 periodicals and digital computer media were to be
donated to the
New York Public Library
(NYPL). [2]
The new location of the Society’s headquarters was thereafter announced as 36 West 44th Street, in the Bar Building.
The building experienced brief infamy in 1991 as being the
unfortunate site where musician Eric Claptons son Conor died, having
fallen onto the roof from the 53rf floor of the Galleria condominiom
complex on East 57th street.
(from)
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/New_York_Genealogical_and_Biographical_Society
***
More about the original architects of the building at 122 East 58th Street in New York that was built in 1928 –
New York architectural firm of La Farge, Warren and Clark
http://diglib.princeton.edu/ead/getEad?eadid=C0688&kw=
Biography of C. Grant La Farge
Christopher
Grant La Farge was the eldest son of the artist John LaFarge, famous
especially for his stained glass panels. La Farge
and George Lewis Heins met at Massachusetts Institute of
Technology and trained together in the Boston offices of Henry Hobson
Richardson.
In 1886 they opened their office, Heins & La Farge.
Heins was the man on the site; LaFarge was the principal designer. Their
firm is probably best known for its plans for original
sections of the Cathedral St. John the Divine in New York City. LaFarge,
a
fellow of the American Institute of Architects (AIA) often
served on advisory committees for the schools of architecture at
Columbia
University, M.I.T. and Princeton University, and also as
trustee and secretary for the American Academy in Rome.
Also includes on this page a description of the collection of drawings available for researchers – (my note)
The collection consists of approximately 5000 early 20th-century
American architectural drawings (blueprint and trace drawings),
primarily by C. Grant La Farge and various firms with
which he was associated, including Heins & La Farge, La Farge, Clark
& Creighton, La Farge, Warren & Clark, La Farge
& Morris, and La Farge & Son. There are also groups of drawings
by the architects Wilson Eyre, Pennington Satterthwaite
(Princeton Class of 1893), Robert Gibson, and a few miscellaneous firms.
La Farge’s drawings (1896-1931) represent churches, homes, instituions,
boathouses, and mausoleums, including plans for the Cathedral
of St. John the Divine (New York City), St. Matthews
Cathedral (Washington, D.C.), the U.S. Naval Hospital (Brooklyn), Caspar
Whitney’s home in Irvington, N.Y., and J. P. Morgan,
Jr.’s home in Matinecock Point, N.Y. For Wilson Eyre, a noted
Philadelphia
architect, there are drawings (1903-1932) for Walter
Jefford’s house in Conn., and various other buildings. Satterthwaite’s
works
(1901-1927) include architectural plans for the Princeton
Club (New York City), the Nassau Club (Princeton), the boathouse at
Princeton University, and A. C. Hencken’s home in
Greenwich, Conn. Also present are drawings and prints used by Robert W.
Gibson
in the competition for the plans of the Cathedral of St.
John the Divine in N.Y., and miscellaneous drawings by Carrere &
Hastings, D. H. Faia, Robert Walters, C. P. Gilbert, and
others.
from –
http://diglib.princeton.edu/ead/getEad?eadid=C0688&kw=
My Note –
Is that the same one as the designers for the building I photographed which belonged to the New York Genealogical and Biographical Society? Hmmmm……
Need to find out more.
**
Here is some about his father – and yes, among the listings of architecture firms where Christopher Grant LaFarge was a member, the firm that designed the New York Genealogical Society headquarters is among them . . .
There was a stained glass mentioned in the text from wikipedia about the Society which at one point was rescued from one location and brought forward to another. Wonder if it could have been a work by the architect’s father – John LaFarge? Wonder if I could find a picture of it. Now I really want to see it and there are some of the other LaFarge windows on this wikipedia entry about him – They are magnificent – with themes of wisdom and justice and truth. As it turns out, his mother was the great granddaughter of Benjamin Franklin?
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/John_LaFarge
His eldest son, Christopher Grant LaFarge, was a partner in the New York-based architectural firm of
Heins & LaFarge , responsible for projects in
Beaux-Arts style , notably the original Byzantine
Cathedral of St. John the Divine , the Yale undergraduate society
St. Anthony Hall
(extant 1893-1913) pictured at, [6]
and the original Astor Court buildings of the
Bronx Zoo .
from the first few paragraphs about John LaFarge –
John La Farge
(March 31, 1835 – November 14, 1910) was an
American
painter, muralist,
stained glass
window maker, decorator, and writer.
Born in
New York City ,
New York , his interest in art began during his training at
Mount St. Mary’s University [1]
and St. John’s College (now
Fordham University ). He had only the study of law in mind until he returned from his first visit to
Paris ,
France
where he studied with
Thomas Couture
and became acquainted with famous literary people of the city. LaFarge subsequently studied with painter
William Morris Hunt
in Newport. [2] [3]
Even LaFarge’s earliest drawings and landscapes, done in
Newport, Rhode Island , after his marriage in 1861 to Margaret Mason Perry, sister-in-law of
Lilla Cabot Perry , show marked originality, especially in the handling of color values, and also the influence of
Japanese
art, in the study of which he was a pioneer.
Between 1859 and 1870, he illustrated
Tennyson ‘s
Enoch Arden
and
Robert Browning ‘s
Men and Women .
Breadth of observation and structural conception, and a vivid
imagination and sense of color are shown by his mural decorations. His
first work in mural painting was done in
Trinity Church, Boston , in 1873. Then followed his decorations in the
Church of the Ascension
(the large altarpiece) and
St. Paul’s Chapel (Columbia University) ,
New York . For the
Minnesota State Capitol
at St. Paul he executed, at age 71, four great lunettes representing the history of law, and for the Supreme Court building at
Baltimore ,
a similar series with Justice as the theme. In addition there are his
vast numbers of other paintings and water colors, notably those
recording his extensive travels in the Orient and South Pacific.
The work of art shown is a 1901 work by John La Farge (1835-1910). "Figure of Wisdom," stained glass window in Unity Church, North Easton, MA. Photo credit:
Daniel P. B. Smith, 2005 (wikipedia entry on John La Farge)
One of the LaFarge windows shown on the wikipedia page entry about him – John LaFarge’s eldest son Christopher was a member of the firm who did the architectural designs for the Genealogical Society headquarters.
La Farge experimented with color problems, especially in the medium
of stained glass. He succeeded not only in rivaling the gorgeousness of
medieval windows, but in adding new resources by his invention of
opalescent glass and his original methods of superimposing and welding
his material.
Among his many stained glass masterpieces are:
four windows at the
Trinity Church, Boston
(1877–78)
windows at
Biltmore Estate
in
Asheville, NC
(1881)
windows at
Church of St. Joseph of Arimathea
in
Greenburgh, New York
(1883)
windows at the
St. Paul’s Chapel ,
Columbia University , NYC (1888–99)
rose window at the
First Unitarian Church of Philadelphia
(1891)
windows at
Trinity Episcopal Church
in
Buffalo, NY
(1886–89)
memorial window at
All Saints Episcopal Church ,
Briarcliff Manor, New York
(1889)
window of Edwin Booth as Hamlet at The Church of the Transfiguration in New York City (1898)
windows in
Mount Vernon Church, Boston , 1890s [5]
(That would be the father, artist and master stained glass guy)
This part would give reference to the son’s efforts – (describes his family from the wikipedia entry about his master artist father) –
He, [John LaFarge] married on October 15, 1860 at Newport, Rhode Island, Margaret
Mason Perry, who was born on February 26, 1839 in Newport, Rhode Island,
and died on May 2, 1925.
Her father was Christopher Grant Perry, the son of Commodore
Oliver Hazard Perry
and Elizabeth Champlin Mason. He was a descendant of Gov.
Thomas Prence
(1599 – March 29, 1673) a co-founder of
Eastham, Massachusetts ,
a political leader in both the Plymouth and Massachusetts Bay colonies,
and governor of Plymouth (1634, 1638, and 1657–1673); and Elder
William Brewster (pilgrim) , (c. 1567 – April 10, 1644), the Pilgrim leader and spiritual elder of the
Plymouth Colony
and a passenger on the
Mayflower .
Her mother was Frances Sergeant, who was the daughter of Chief Justice Thomas Sergeant and Sarah Bache, the daughter of
Sarah Franklin Bache
and
Richard Bache . She was a great-granddaughter of
Benjamin Franklin , one of the
Founding Fathers
of the
United States of America
and
Deborah Read .
His eldest son, Christopher Grant LaFarge, was a partner in the New York-based architectural firm of
Heins & LaFarge , responsible for projects in
Beaux-Arts style , notably the original Byzantine
Cathedral of St. John the Divine , the Yale undergraduate society
St. Anthony Hall
(extant 1893-1913) pictured at, [6]
and the original Astor Court buildings of the
Bronx Zoo . [“the various firms with
which he, (Christopher Grant LaFarge),
was associated, including Heins & La
Farge, La Farge, Clark
& Creighton, La Farge, Warren
& Clark, La Farge
&
Morris, and La Farge & Son.” –  from Princeton Library site – see below.]
His son Oliver Hazard Perry LaFarge I became an architect and real
estate developer. Part of his career in real estate was in a Seattle
partnership with
Marshall Latham Bond ,
Bond & LaFarge. During the year 1897 to 1898 Seattle real estate
which had been extremely prosperous was in a “slump”. The partners left
and participated in the Klondike Gold Rush. Among the camp fire mates at
Dawson City during the Fall of 1897 was Jack London who rented a tent
site from Marshall Bond. In Seattle the Perry Building designed after
LaFarge returned is still standing. Later on in life O.H.P. LaFarge
designed buildings for General Motors.
Another of his sons,
John LaFarge, S.J. , became a Jesuit priest
and a strong supporter of anti-racist policies .
from wikipedia entry about John LaFarge found here –
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/John_LaFarge
The collection consists of approximately 5000 early 20th-century
American architectural drawings (blueprint and trace drawings),
primarily by C. Grant La Farge and various firms with
which he
was associated, including Heins & La Farge, La Farge, Clark
& Creighton,
La Farge, Warren & Clark , La Farge
&
Morris, and La Farge & Son. There are also groups of drawings
by the architects Wilson Eyre, Pennington Satterthwaite
(Princeton Class of 1893), Robert Gibson, and a few miscellaneous firms.
from – (the Description of the Contents in their Collection) – found here –
http://diglib.princeton.edu/ead/getEad?eadid=C0688&kw=
***
The New York-based architectural firm of
Heins & La Farge , composed of Philadelphia-born architect
George Lewis Heins
(1860–1907) and
Christopher Grant La Farge
(1862–1938) – the eldest son of the artist
John LaFarge ,
famous especially for his stained glass panels – were responsible most
notably for the original Romanesque-Byzantine east end and
crossing
of the
Cathedral of St. John the Divine , New York, and for the original Astor Court buildings of the
Bronx Zoo , which formed a complete ensemble reflecting the esthetic of the
City Beautiful
movement.
Heins & La Farge provided the architecture and details for the
Interborough Rapid Transit , the first subway system of New York.
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Heins_%26_LaFarge
The photograph I had taken of the Interborough Subway sign at the New York Life Insurance Company building whose details were created by the Heins and La Farge architecture firm. This overall building was designed by Cass Gilbert with the Interborough Subway details provided by the LaFarge team - cricketdiane photo New York City 2010
(see the previous post for more information about the New York Life Insurance Building which sits atop the original site for Madison Square Garden and contains the subway station for the oldest New York subway – the Interborough Subway)
***
In 1899, Heins was appointed New York
State architect
by Governor
Theodore Roosevelt , and he designed interiors for the first buildings at the
State University of New York , Albany: the Auditorium and the Science and Administration Buildings. [2]
He held that position until his death in 1907. While serving in that capacity his office designed the
Flushing Armory ,
Geneva Armory ,
Gloversville Armory ,
Medina Armory , and
Oneonta Armory .
La Farge, a fellow of the
American Institute of Architects
(AIA) often served on advisory committees for the schools of
architecture at Columbia University, M.I.T. and Princeton University,
and also as trustee and secretary for the
American Academy in Rome .
Roosevelt was also a prime mover behind the creation of the
New York Zoological Society ,
for whom the partners designed the original nucleus of buildings
(1899–1910, now called the Astor Court) as a series of pavilions
symmetrically grouped round the large sea lion pool, all in a sturdy
brick and limestone
Roman Ionic
and
Doric ,
with the heads of elephants and rhinos, lions and zebras projecting
festively from panels and friezes. The central Administration Building
(1910), offering an arched passageway to the zoo’s outdoor spaces, has
complicated domed spaces formed of
Guastavino tile .
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Heins_%26_LaFarge
(there’s bunches more, but I want to know about the firm in place when the building at the New York Genealogical and Biographical Society was built.)
They also designed a “Romanesque dollhouse” on the Yale campus for the fraternity Delta Psi – a building which no longer exists since being demolished in 1913.
University commissions were also in their oeuvre. At
Yale , their rusticated
Richardsonian Romanesque
design for a chapter building of
St. Anthony Hall , also known as the
Delta Psi
fraternity, stood from 1894 to 1913.
(from wikipedia entry –
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Heins_%26_LaFarge
)
The building was razed when Frederick Vanderbilt gave money for a new St. A’s designed to blend with the Sheffield dormitories he had funded on either side of the fraternity.
http://www.yalealumnimagazine.com/issues/01_03/popup/landmarks/22.html
Yale's Lost Landmarks - Saint Anthony Hall 1894 - 1913 designed by Heins & La Farge - photo from Yale Alumni Magazine - Demolished by Frederick Vanderbilt's gift of money to build another in keeping with the designs of the other frat halls nearby
***
For brilliant photos of the New York City Hall Subway Station designed by Heins & LaFarge – this site explains how to see it and holds some gorgeous pictures of the elegantly designed station. Beautiful tile work, arched ceilings and lighting (including this note about the skylights from their website – )
Vault lights
permitted sunlight into City Hall Station. This light was augmented by wrought iron chandeliers hanging from the vault ceiling.
http://www.forgotten-ny.com/SUBWAYS/City%20Hall%20Station/cityhall.html
(Definitely pop over and see their photos – absolutely brilliant.)
**
Some information from this book on google books yields more information about La Farge, Warren & Clark NY architecture –
Long Island country houses and their architects, 1860-1940
By Robert B. MacKay, Anthony K. Baker, Carol A. Traynor (1997)
Long Island Country Houses and Their Architects, 1860 – 1940 (online through google books)
Christopher Grant La Farge, 1862 – 1938
In the course of his lengthy career, Christopher Grant La Farge, was associated with several partnerships:
with George Louis Heins (1886 0 1907);
with Benjamin Wistar Morris (1910 – 15); and after several years of practicing alone, with the firm La Farge, Warren & Clark, and its successor firm, La Farge, Clark & Creighton.
Finally, his son Christopher practiced with him in the firm of La Farge & Son. although he is better known for his work on public and ecclesiastical buildings throughout the state of New York than for his domestic work on Long Island, La Farge was, in fact, involved in the design of at least three important residences on the Island:
the J.P. Morgan, Jr., house in Glen Cove (demolished 1980); the John Hay Whitney Boathouse in Manhasset; and an addition to Theodore Roosevelt’s “Sagamore Hill” in Oyster Bay.
Theodore Roosevelt Residence, “Sagamore Hill,” Oyster Bay, 1905
La Farge received his first Long Island commission from his friend, Theodore Roosevelt, after the latter’s election to a second term as President of the United States. It was to design an addition to “Sagamore Hill,” Roosevelt’s summer home at Oyster Bay. (goes on to describe it, but there is a great photograph of its interior space – absolutely amazing.)
(looks like the Yosemite lodge without the stone three story fireplace or some other great woods lodge with a library reading alcove added, my note – has deer heads, etc. – my note) The primary feature is an enlarged Ionic order that encircles the room, framing windows, doors, and fireplaces. To one side, the architects placed a small reading alcove. The coved ceiling and all the wall space were paneled in classical motifs. Roosevelt called it “the most attractive feature of my house by all odds.”
(has great photograph of that room – looks like a hunting lodge in the mountains somewhere, my note)
describes and has photographs of the residence for J.P. Morgan, Jr. at Glen Cove and the Boathouse in Manhasset, as well.
Long Island Country Houses and Their Architects, 1860 – 1940 (online through google books)
**
This is a quote from the article below it describing the sale of the New York Genealogical and Biographical Society building – it tells a little about the way it looked before the recent board and trustees dismantled it –
Dedicated in 1929, the building was designed for the society by the
eminent firm of La Farge, Warren and Clark and cost $300,000. Society
members fondly recall the portrait gallery in the ground-floor meeting
hall where annual meetings were convened, and the paneled two-story
library and fireplace on the upper floor, pictured above, where anyone
in the know could comfortably while away the time poring over historic
gems.
CITY ROOM; Genealogical Society’s Break From the Past Creates Lingering Pain
By ALISON LEIGH COWAN
Published: August 23, 2010
Making what they called a ”forward-looking decision,” the trustees
hung a for-sale sign on the society’s longtime home at 122 East 58th
Street several years ago. Then — to the shock of the society’s own
members, who were still reeling from the sale — the trustees gave the
society’s vast collection of scholarly books and historic papers to the
New York Public Library.
{ .. . .}
He acknowledged that some aspects of overhead remained high after the sale, even though the society had fewer assets to manage. Tax returns show administrative expenses unrelated to programming totaled $535,000 in 2006, $616,000 in 2007 and $963,000 in 2008.
Tax returns for 2009, Mr. Smith’s first year in charge, are not yet available for public inspection. But Mr. Smith said that the society’s endowment now stands at about $12.2 million.
”In my back-of-the-envelope computation, I estimated the radical drop in the market that took place after the building was sold took about $6 million out of the kitty,” Mr. Smith said. [H. McKelden Smith, president of the New York Genealogical and Biographical Society since 2009.]
from –
http://query.nytimes.com/gst/fullpage.html?res=9907E4D61130F930A1575BC0A9669D8B63
This first article from August of last year contains two pages and a lot of information. A second article discusses the buyer in the deal and appears online at this link –
http://cityroom.blogs.nytimes.com/2010/08/23/a-short-second-life-for-a-building-with-history/
Starting in late 2003, he rented space on the ground floor of a five-story building owned by
the New York Genealogical and Biographical Society
at 122 East 58th Street. The rabbi, who spent four years working for
Harry Helmsley , the late real estate tycoon, on a break from the rabbinate, said he liked that the building was within walking distance of several hotels, a selling point for observant Jews in town for the weekend and in need of a place to pray. Though the start-up was legally an affiliate of the Hampton Synagogue, the name on the door said the New York Synagogue.
(etc. – from the article link above)
**
And, now the building was sold again after that and this article had an interesting note about the Genealogical and Biographical Society of New York leasing it back and then renting the auditorium out to the group they had originally sold it to – Hmmm……
Seller Hampton Synagogue bought the 23,712-square-foot, 80-year-old building in July 2007 for $24 million from the New York Genealogical and Biographical Society, city records show. ( . . . ) After the Westhampton Beach-based synagogue sold the building in 2007, the genealogical society leased it back, then rented the auditorium to the synagogue for weekly events, said society president McKelden Smith. The genealogical organization will move this summer to a 3,000-square-foot commercial condominium it bought last fall at the Bar Building, 36 West 44th Street.
Excerpt from –
http://therealdeal.com/newyork/articles/midtown-congregation-building-sells-for-28m
***
”This is not really a financial story,” said McKelden Smith the businessman who became the society’s president in January 2009. (from New York Times story Aug 22, 2010)
http://www.coaf.us/activities10.html
photos
of meeting – board of NY Genealogical and Biographical Society members
including the President, H. McKelden Smith, and their Heraldry Branch
member – new commercial condominium boardroom location with its high
administrative costs despite few full time staff members.
http://www.newyorkfamilyhistory.org/download/public_researcher/NYResearcher2010SpringG_1.pdf
Officers and Board Members –
W. Francis Price Jr., Chairman
Robert G. Goelet, Vice-Chairman
Luke Ives Pontifell, Secretary
Robert f. Hendrickson, Treasurer
William M. Bramwell Jr., Assistant Treasurer
Elizabeth L. Bradley
R. Brandon Fradd
John C. Harvey
Elbrun Kimmelman
Anita A. Lustenberger
George H. McNeely IV
Robert S. Roberson
Henry B. Roberts
M. David Sherrill
Jeanne Sloane
McKelden Smith, Ex Officio
Waddell W. Stillman
Timothy F. Beard
Henry B. Hoff
Henry C.B. Lindh
Walter Wilmerding
E. Lisk Wyckoff
Trustees Emeriti
**
Senior Staff
McKelden Smith, President
M. Pamella Campbell, Accounts Manager
Patricia Law Hatcher, Editor:
The Record
William P. Johns, Senior Advisor
Lauren Maehrlein, Director of Education
Cathy Michelsen, Director of Development
Lindsey M. Ottman, Director of Information Systems
The New York Genealogical and Biographical Society
7 th
floor
36 West 44 th
Street
New York, NY
10036-8105
mail@nygbs.org
212-755-8532
Also found on this site –
“A few days later, Lauren Maehrlein and I visited the New York Public Library’s stunning new cataloging facility in Long Island City. Melissa Yolles and Jeffrey Bayer gave us a tour of the book, manuscripts, and special formats cataloging functions and showed us the work being done on the NYG&B’s collections. The details of that effort are covered in Lauren’s article on page 4.”
(they’ve also taken on a trustee from Christie’s who had worked with Newport Historical Society)
***
So, that indicates where the actual materials are now . . .
and these two parts indicate something else about it –
in 2007, the board pushed through a resolution that stripped members of
their right to vote on important business and approve the naming of
trustees.
(and)
Tax returns for 2009, Mr. Smith’s first year in charge, are not yet
available for public inspection. But Mr. Smith said that the society’s
endowment now stands at about $12.2 million.
”In my back-of-the-envelope computation, I estimated the radical
drop in the market that took place after the building was sold took
about $6 million out of the kitty,” Mr. Smith said. ”That’s not
atypical.
We were pretty carefully invested. The money was invested in a
diverse range of conservative investments, from equities to bonds to
cash.
So yeah, it was truly tough to lose $6 million, but everybody —
individuals and organization — lost a significant amount of money. We
were there with the pack.”
http://query.nytimes.com/gst/fullpage.html?res=9907E4D61130F930A1575BC0A9669D8B63&pagewanted=2
Looks like they got raided – as in the quasi-traditional 80’s form of corporate raiding. Any assets that could cost money to maintain were dumped and any money that could be gained from them was taken and invested in high administrative “costs” along with plowing it into a diversified stock portfolio instead. Gamblers’ Delightus Maximus is what that is . . .
Going back to my search for more information about the architects and other information from that time about the building and similar things –
**
History Window that belongs to the New York Geneological and Biographical Society - had been in their building originally and then moved to their headquarters after it had languished in a storage room - was restored in 1992 and placed in the headquarters at 122 East 58th Street New York
This photograph of the History Window and this excerpt below is found in a history section about the New York Genealogical and Biographical Society – does not describe if it is a La Farge stained glass window created by the architect’s famous father or not. Seems like it might very well be, my note.
The Society’s present building holds many
mementos of Genealogical Hall. There is a plaque in the lobby
commemorating Mrs. Coles’ gift, and the library is graced by a beautiful
stained-glass window which was presented to the Society by the Record
Committee in 1898. The window was installed in the library at
Genealogical Hall until 1929 and then languished in storage until 1992,
when it was carefully restored and installed in a north window of the
present library, largely due to the generosity of then president Henry
S. Middendorf.
One of the Society’s most ambitious early projects was the erection
of a
statue of Christopher
Columbus
on the Mall in New York’s Central
Park. The statue was unveiled in 1894 as part of the Columbus quadricentennial, and it can still be seen in the Park today.
http://www.newyorkfamilyhistory.org/modules.php?name=Content&pa=showpage&pid=2
1880
John
LaFarge
was the first designer to incorporate opalescent glass into a
window
and received a patent for his new product on
February 24, 1880 .
http://www.buffaloah.com
(from google timeline offered during a search)
**
On the W. side of the
south transept is the Edwin Booth Window, given by the members of The PIayers in
1898 , designed by
La Farge . Just beyond
…
books.google.com
**
La Farge Welcome Window from 1909 showing at the New York American Wing of the Metropolitan Spring 2009 - maybe even today
from the text it says –
John La Farge (1835–1910)
Welcome window
New York City, 1909
Painted and leaded opalescent glass
Anonymous Gift, 1944 (44.90)
http://www.curatedobject.us/the_curated_object_/2009/03/exhibitionevent-nyc-the-american-wing-galleries-open-at-the-metropolitan-museum-of-art-the-curated-o.html
I was looking for a better image of the “History Window’ that is in the care of the New York Genealogical Society. And, to see if it was a stained glass work designed by John La Farge, father of the architect who built their building along with any other details about when it was commissioned for them.
The other thing that would be interesting would be about the Christopher Columbus Statue and who sculpted it, more about the details on the building also. Apparently, from some of the text that I read, at one time there was a caretakers’ apartment within the building which was later remodeled to be offices for the Society. That is an interesting way that many buildings had a constant full time caretaker included in the structure from its time of being built onwards. The Fox Theater in Atlanta was also done that way with its recent (within the last couple years) fight to remove the caretaker from his apartment where he had spent most of his adult life living, guarding and caring for the Theater. It makes me wonder if there were any stories like that around the time that the Society changed the caretaker apartments in their building to be office space . . .
– cricketdiane
I’ll keep looking , very interesting.
***
The eagle
was a natural choice for Heins & Lafarge for the 33rd Street Station
since the 71st Regiment Armory was being rebuilt above the station at
the time. A fire had destroyed its predecessor in 1902.
(from)
http://rogershepherd.com/WIW/solution2/72nd3.html#gustavino
The Guastavinos specialized
in constructing self-supporting tile arches that were light, strong, fireproof
and economical. Their beautiful thin-shell ceiling tiles grace numerous
buildings including McKim, Mead and White’s Municipal Building, the
Cathedral
of St. John the Divine , St. Paul’s Chapel at Columbia University,
the Oyster Bar at Grand Central Station, the Registry Room at Ellis Island,
as well as the Elephant House of the
Bronx Zoo .
The
tiles of the
Guastavino Fireproof Construction Company ,
Rafael Guastavino Sr. (1842-1908) and Rafael Guastavino Jr. (1872-1950),
were fireproof, laminated tile used for wide arches that created a unique
vaulted spatial effect. The major example of their use in the subway is
the original City Hall station. (also were the firm that Heins and La Farge used for the Bronx Zoo, my note)
from –
http://rogershepherd.com/WIW/solution2/72nd3.html#gustavino
(has lots more pictures and descriptions of the different faience companies used for the subway stations tile work and other decorative placques like the station numbers and bas relief tiles ornamenting various places. Great page.)
It also describes when the subways started operation –
Passenger service began on
October 27, 1904, from City Hall to Broadway and 145th Street, and the
remaining pieces of the line were opened between November 1904 and August
1908. Each station could be clearly identified by its unique decorations
in glazed ceramic, tile, and mosaics.
These pages were found from a link on this page about Christopher Grant La Farge during his participation with his firm, Heins & La Farge –
http://www.nyc-architecture.com/ARCH/ARCH-HeinsLaFarge.htm
Sealed like a tomb under City Hall Park is one of the
world’s most beautiful (former) subway stations. Heins &
Lafarge were the architects of this showpiece.
City Hall Station is unusually elegant in
architectural style, and is unique among the original IRT
stations. The platform and mezzanine feature
Guastavino
arches and skylights, colored glass and tilework, and brass
chandeliers. The platform is spanned by a single arch with
daylight filtered through every fourth bay.
In 1899, Heins was appointed New York State
architect by Governor Theodore Roosevelt and he designed state
buildings until his death in 1907. Lafarge, a fellow of the AIA,
served, at intervals, on advisory committees for the schools of
architecture at Columbia University, M.I.T. and Princeton
University, and also as trustee and secretary for the American
Academy in Rome.
Also I found elsewhere in a Who’s Who in America book (on google books) from 1903 – the entries for Heins, and the La Farge father and sons – including Christopher Grant La Farge
There was a note there and in another site which showed that Heins married La Farge’s sister, Aimee.
And Christopher Grant La Farge married into politics (more or less) by marrying the niece of a Sec and Senator.-
La Farge, Christopher Grant , architect; b. Newport, R.I., Jan. 5, 1862; s. John and Margaret (Perry) L.; studied Mass. Inst. Technology, 1880-1, and in office H.H. Richardson, 1882; m. Sept. 5, 1895, Florence Bayard, d. Benoni and Florence (Bayard) Lockwood, and niece Sec. and Senator Thomas F. Bayard, of Del.
Joined classmate, George L. Heins, 1882, at Minneapolis, and with latter, 1884, took charge of architectural work of his father, John La Farge, decorator; since 1886 of firm, Heins & La Farge, architects of Cathedral of St. John the Divine, interior Ch. of St. Paul the Apostle and Ch. of the Incarnation, ch. and parsonage 4 th
Presby’n Ch., New York, St. Matthew’s, Washington, Ch. of the Blessed Sacrament, Providence, R.I., St. Paul (and parish house), Rochester, Houghton Memorial Chapel, Wellesley, Mass., R.C. Ch. and rectory, Tuxedo, NY ; chapel and parish house St. Michael’s, Geneseo, R.C, chapel W. Point, N. Y. Lorillard and Matthiesen and Bliss Mausoleums, Woodlawn, New York, Calvin S. Brice Mausoleum; Lima, O.; alterations and extensions Grace Ch., New York, 1901; accessory bldgs., Cathedral St. John the Divine, etc.
Residence:
101 E. 19 th
Street NY
Office:
30 East 21 st
Street, New York.
(from)
pg. 857 of google doc / pg. 862 of actual book
Who’s who in America
By John William Leonard, Albert Nelson Marquis (1903)
http://books.google.com/books?id=4nfOl6a6QSkC&pg=RA1-PA676&lpg=RA1-PA676&dq=C+G+La+Farge&source=bl&ots=P_IDzhUG-Z&sig=Y2r4V47Hf0LU5AZ5NXsggRDAKn0&hl=en&ei=9_o7TdD5H8PLgQfQ-di_CA&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=8&sqi=2&ved=0CE0Q6AEwBw#v=onepage&q&f=false
(and from page 676 of the same book –  )
Heins, George Lewis , architect; b. Philadelphia, may 24, 1869; s. John and anne Marie (Vaughn) H.; student Univ. of Pa 1877-9; grad. Mass. Inst. Technology (architecture), 1882; m. 1896, Aimee LaFarge in architect’s office, Minneapolis, 188203, St. Paul, 1883-4;
Joined his classmate, C. Grant La Farge, and then removed to New York, 1884, both serving as architectural assistants to John LaFarge, decorative artist. In 1886 formed partnership with C.G. LaFarge as Heins & LaFarge. Architects for P. E. Cathedral of St. John the Divine, New York, New York Zoological Park, Consulting architects Rapid Transit Comm’n; State architect of all N.Y State Bldgs. since 1898 Made sp’l insp’n of principal cathedrals of Old World. Residence:
Mohegan, N.Y. / Office:
30 E. 21 st
Street, New York, and Albany. N.Y.
pg. 676
***
Very nifty.
Uh oh – two different sculptures of Columbus – Hmmm……
For the 400th anniversary of Columbus’ voyage in 1492, the New
York Genealogical and Biographical Society commissioned Spanish sculptor
Jeronimo Sunol (1839–1902) to fashion this bronze portrait sculpture.
The statue employs religious and imperialist imagery as the explorer
holds in his right hand the Spanish flag with a cross on top.
At his
side, a globe is mounted to a cable-entwined capstan.
The statue bears
similarities to Sunol’s Columbus monument installed in 1885 at the Plaza
de Colon in Madrid.
The statue rests on an elaborately carved granite pedestal with
numerous undercuts, bevels and moldings designed by architect Napoleon
Le Brun.
It complements the monuments of
Shakespeare , the
Indian Hunter , and
Sir Walter Scott
and
Robert Burns
installed earlier in the southern region of the Mall in Central Park.
On May 12, 1894 the statue was unveiled during a ceremony presided over
by the sculpture committee’s chairman, General James Grant Wilson.
The
large crowd of spectators and participants included Vice President Adlai
Ewing Stevenson, Mayor Thomas Francis Gilroy, Park Board President
Abraham Tappen, Bishop Henry C. Potter, Italian Ambassador Baron de
Fava, Spanish Minister Senor Don Muruaga, business magnate Cornelius
Vanderbilt and author and social reformer Julia Ward Howe.
Mr. Chauncey
M. Depew, the orator for the occasion commented, “New York can add
nothing to the glory of Columbus, but she may enforce the lesson of his
life and discovery.”
The Central Park Conservancy last refurbished the
statue in 1993.
http://www.nycgovparks.org/parks/centralpark/highlights/11972
May 12, 1894 - Statue of Christopher Columbus in Central Park commissioned by the New York Genealogical and Biographical Society 1894 by Spanish Sculptor Jeronimo Sunol from NYC gov parks and recreation site
So, I totally had the wrong sculpture earlier in this post. Now, I’m going to have to find out what it is . . .
Oh durn.
– cricketdiane
***
What is interesting about that sculpture however, is that the New York Genealogical and Biographical Society didn’t officially form until 1869 which was 25 years before this sculpture was commissioned and installed at Central Park.
Okay – and the other sculpture of Christopher Columbus is this one -(the one I had photographed and confused with the one above – )
Sculpture of Christopher Columbus by Italian sculptor Gaetano Russo as part of New York's 1892 commemoration of the 4th centenary of the discovery of the America - located at Columbus Circle New York - from wikipedia
Columbus Circle , named for
Christopher Columbus , is a major landmark and point of attraction in the
New York City
borough
of
Manhattan . Completed in 1905. It is the point from which distances from New York City are measured. The
traffic circle
was designed by
William P. Eno , a businessman who pioneered many early innovations in
road safety
and traffic control, as part of
Frederick Law Olmsted ‘s vision for the park, which included a “Grand Circle” at Merchants’ Gate, its most important
Eighth Avenue
entrance.
(roughly quoted from wikipedia entry about it found here –
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Columbus_Circle
)
The monument at the center, created by Italian sculptor Gaetano Russo, [1]
is the point at which distances to and from New York City are officially measured. It was erected as part of New York’s 1892 commemoration of the 4th
centenary of the discovery of the America. Constructed with funds raised
by
Il Progresso , a New York City-based
Italian -language
newspaper , the monument consists of a
marble
statue of Columbus atop a 70-foot (21 m)
granite
rostral column
decorated with
bronze
reliefs representing Columbus’ ships: the
Niña , the
Pinta , and the
Santa María . Its pedestal features an
angel
holding a
globe .
(etc.)
1907 Photograph of Columbus Circle, the statue of Christopher Columbus and Central Park in New York City - wikipedia
My Note –
Which means that I’m going to have to go back to New York and hunt down that other durn sculpture in Central Park to get some pictures . . .
Yep – that’s a fact.
And, it is also true – that learning is a process which must invariably host some mistakes but it just means they need to be fixed, or corrected, or in this case – discovered by continuing the learning process until I could tell which part I had wrong – and then correcting it. But, I wouldn’t trade the process for the world. It is well worth it.
What a fun set of discovery to have enjoyed tonight. And, so much more to learn yet. So many exceptional and beautiful things have been created in the world. And, so many wondrous people have lived in it and are living in it now.
On my searches, I happened upon a couple other nifty things which were absolutely amazing, including more of the work by John La Farge and the Guastavino Tile Works and other Faience companies, the vaulted structural and decorative tile works which I had never realized were a structural element as well – and they are fireproofing, too. And, they are beautiful. The hope had been that people would be more comforted as they made use of the subway systems in particular because they are underground. That is some amazing thinking right there.
Grueby Company tile work done at Columbus Circle was the first done on the stations as this very elaborate placques of one of the Columbus ships and ornate decorative elements - New York City - from roger shepherd site
It’s caption reads:
Columbus
Circle was the first station ready for tile, so the Grueby Company tested
its various types here. These frames and cornice are very elaborate–rosettes
joined by nautical line and garlands of fruit tied with flowing ribbons.
http://rogershepherd.com/WIW/solution2/72nd3.html#gustavino
And, I’m not sure of this person’s relationship to anything, but recognizing the famous name when looking in the Who’s Who in America book from 1903 on google books, I found this entry which has absolutely blown me away for what it contains about this person and their accomplishments –
Langley, Samuel Pierpont , astronomer and physicist, Sec. the Smithsonian Inst’n since 1887; b. Roxbury, Boston, aug. 22, 1834; grad. Boston High School; (D.c. L., Oxford; D. Sc., Cambridge, Eng.; LL.D., Harvard, Princiton, Yale, Univ. Wis.; Univ. of Mich.; Ph.D., Stevens Inst. Technology).
Practiced architecture and civ. eng’ring; asst. Harvard Observatory, 1865; Inter asst. prof. mathematics U.S. Naval Acad.; dir. Allegheny Observatory, 1867, where, 1869, he founded the system of railway time service from observatories, which has since become general, and where he devised the bolometer, now in general use, and other apparatus.
Organized expdn. to Mt. Whitney, 1881, where he reestablished the color constant and discovered an entirely unsuspected extension of the invisible spectrum. Has carried out extended expts. on the problem of mech. flight.
Established Astrophysical Observatory and the Nat. Zool. Park, Washington.
Corr. Inst. of France, foreign mem. Royal Soc. of London, Royal Society of Edinburgh, and Accademia Del Lincei, Rome; member Nat. Acad of Sciences and of many other American and foreign scientific societies. has been awarded Janssen medal, Inst. of France:
Rumford medal of the royal Soc. of London, and of Am. Acad. Arts and Sciences;
Henry Draper medal. Nat. Acad. Sciences, etc., and numerous others.
Author:
The New Astronomy;
Researches on Solar Heat;
Experiments in Aerodynamics;
Internal Work of the Wind, and many other scientific works, papers and mag. articles.
Residence:
Metropolitan Club, Washington.
(1903 entry – Who’s Who in America)
see link to google book – pg. 865 google doc / pg. 870 of actual book
Who’s who in America
By John William Leonard, Albert Nelson Marquis (1903)
Who’s Who in America (1903) – on google books
**
Just amazing . . .
I would say it doesn’t take much to entertain me, but actually it does. This has been genuinely entertaining, inspiring and fun. Better than television.
– cricketdiane
***
]]>
https://newyorkcitycricketguide.wordpress.com/2011/01/23/new-york-historical-context-of-space-and-buildings-the-new-york-genealogical-and-biographical-society-founding/feed/
1
cricketdiane
00 - cricketdiane10 - NY - Day 5 - New York Genealogical and Biographical Society 004-2
00 - cricketdiane10 - NY - Day 5 - New York Genealogical and Biographical Society building from 1928 003-2
New York Genealogical and Biographical Society building, 122 East 58th Street New York - built in 1928
00 - cricketdiane10 - NY - Day 5 - New York Genealogical and Biographical Society marble inscription 002-2
Statue of Christopher Columbus in New York City at Columbus Circle - cricketdiane photo 2010
cricketdiane10 - NY Day 2-3 Statue of Christopher Columbus seen from Times Warner atrium 032-2
cricketdiane10 - NY Day 2-3 Statue of Christopher Columbus seen from Times Warner atrium 032-2
Gordon Bennett's New York Herald Building in New York City designed by the architects McKim, Mead and White 1894
The work of art shown is a 1901 work by John LaFarge (1835-1910). "Figure of Wisdom," stained glass window in Unity Church, North Easton, MA. Photo credit:
Daniel P. B. Smith, 2005 (wikipedia entry on John LaFarge)
cricketdiane10 - 11-28-10 - Day 6 - New York Life Insurance Company Building sits atop the Interborough Subway Station 094-2
Yale's Lost Landmarks - Saint Anthony Hall 1894 - 1913 designed by Heins & LaFarge - photo from Yale Alumni Magazine
History Window that belongs to the New York Geneological and Biographical Society
La Farge Welcome Window from 1909 showing at the New York American Wing of the Metropolitan Spring 2009 - maybe even today
Statue of Christopher Columbus in Central Park commissioned by the New York Genealogical and Biographical Society 1894 by Spanish Sculptor Jeronimo Sunol
by Italian sculptor Gaetano Russo as part of New York's 1892 commemoration of the 4th centenary of the discovery of the America - located at Columbus Circle New York
1907 Photograph of Columbus Circle, the statue of Christopher Columbus and Central Park in New York City - wikipedia
Grueby Company elaborate tile work done at Columbus Circle station New York City
New York Life Insurance Building – Madison Square Garden original site – stories of New York
https://newyorkcitycricketguide.wordpress.com/2011/01/19/new-york-life-insurance-building-madison-square-garden-original-site-stories-of-new-york/
https://newyorkcitycricketguide.wordpress.com/2011/01/19/new-york-life-insurance-building-madison-square-garden-original-site-stories-of-new-york/#comments
Wed, 19 Jan 2011 22:49:03 +0000
http://newyorkcitycricketguide.wordpress.com/?p=17
Continue reading
→ ]]>
When I was in New York, some of the photos I took were to remind me of things to check when I got back home because I couldn’t remember what was so special about it. There was a feeling like, “I know that place. I’ve read about it.” But, I couldn’t remember what was the thing I had studied. Here is one of those, which yielded the most interesting New York Stories . . .
New York Life Insurance Building Placard - New York City photo - by cricketdiane 2010
New York Life Building
The
New York Life Insurance Building, New York , located at 51
Madison Avenue ,
Manhattan ,
New York City , across from
Madison Square Park , is the
headquarters
of the
New York Life Insurance Company .
(wikipedia)
New York Life Building from wikipedia
Roughly paraphrased – this was the last skyscraper designed by the architect Cass Gilbert in Manhattan. He also designed the Woolworth building and a number of other famous works, including the United States Supreme Court Building. The New York Life Insurance Company building was built in 1926 on the site where the first two original Madison Square Gardens existed until 1925. The New York Life Insurance Company held the loans on the second Madison Square Garden built by the architect, Stanford White and decided to use the land for their headquarters when the Gardens lost money for the backers and the loans went into default, (more or less).
Before that, the P.T. Barnum’s Hippodrome occupied the site, along with a concert garden and the Union Depot housing two of New York’s railroads, (from 1837 – 1889, about 52 years.)
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/New_York_Life_Building
So, when I was researching this, I found from the first listing on wikipedia about the New York Life Insurance Building that Cass Gilbert was the architect and clicked over to his entry on wikipedia. He designed a lot of phenomenal spaces, including
United 	States Supreme Court Building , Washington, D.C., 1935.
Gilbert’s last major project, 		guided to completion by his son, Cass Gilbert Jr. He died a year 		before it was completed. A vast
Roman 		temple
in the
Corinthian 		order
is penetrated by a cross range articulated with pilasters 		in very low relief. The central tablet in the richly sculpted 		frieze reads
EQUAL 		JUSTICE UNDER LAW . His design for the U.S. Supreme Court 		chambers was based upon his design for the West Virginia Supreme 		Court of Appeals at the state capitol in
Charleston . 		The pediment sculptures Liberty attended by order and Authority 		(great lawgivers
Moses , 		 Confucius , and 		 Solon
are on the 		West Portico) were executed by
Hermon 		Atkins MacNeil .
Thurgood 	Marshall United States Courthouse ,
Manhattan , 	1933.
and the Woolworth Building, and several state capitols – there is a great list of these on the wikipedia site with pictures.
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cass_Gilbert
I had looked up the building on the National Historic Register – (The New York Life Insurance Building) and on the NY Architecture site which yielded these interesting facts –
Designed by Cass Gilbert, the famed architect who also designed New York’s Woolworth Building and the U.S. Supreme Court, the building was inspired by the Salisbury Cathedral in England and is sheathed by 440,000 cubic feet of Indiana limestone. Its Gothic-styled structure, complete with 72 gargoyles, 40 stories and 2,180 windows, occupies a full city block adjacent to Manhattan’s Madison Square Park.
On December 12, 1928, the company’s then President Darwin P. Kingsley formally dedicated the building, and President Calvin Coolidge pressed a button in the White House that unfurled a U.S. flag in the new building.
The site is steeped in history. In the 1860s, the property housed the Grand Roman Hippodrome, P.T. Barnum’s circus arena, and later became the home of the original Madison Square Garden. Additionally, Winston Churchill’s mother, Jenny Jerome, once lived in a home next door to the site.
(from)
http://www.nyc-architecture.com/GRP/GRP020.htm
The building also has a pinnacle that stands 617 feet above street level. The pinnacle has been lit up since 1985 for the 140th birthday and is sheathed in gold leaf ceramic tile which was done that way in 1967, to celebrate the 140th anniversary, then redone in 1995 to honor the 150th anniversary.
(from)
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/New_York_Life_Building
***
Then I found this which describes the entryway where apparently the public can view the original grand stairway and massive ornate lamps – (good place to take pictures since these things are not made that way anymore.) – and there is no fee to get to see it.
http://www.nyc-architecture.com/ARCH/ARCH-CassGilbert.htm
Site of the original Madison Square Garden 1890-1925 by Stanford White (the scene of his murder). The History
Built in 1928 by Cass Gilbert, designer of the landmark Woolworth Building, this massive 40-story structure is topped by a golden pyramid roof and occupies a site with an equally grand history. From 1837-1889, the land was home to the New York, New Haven and Hartford Railroad depot, a concert garden and P.T. Barnum’s Hippodrome. Until 1925, the site housed the original Madison Square Garden, designed by architect Stanford White.
Architectural Features
Pass through the grand bronze entryway doors, and you’ll find yourself in a lobby that seems infinite, illuminated with the hushed glow of 18 enormous hanging lamps. Even if you’re just taking the grand stairway to the subway station in the bottom of the building, be sure to look up on your short journey, or risk missing the elaborate coffered and vaulted ceilings.
the author of this section notes a thanks to NY.gov –
www.nyc.g ov
With the New York Life Insurance Company design, Gilbert melded the neo-Gothic embellishments of his earlier buildings with the cubic geometries of 1920s skyscrapers, making this building a significant transition from the historical revival-style skyscrapers of the 1900s to the Art Deco towers of the late 1920s.
**
I had taken a couple pictures of the elements from the sidewalk –
cricketdiane10 - 11-28-10 - Day 6 - New York City New York Life Insurance Building Lanterns - cricketdiane photo 2010
But, what caught my attention when I was reading through the different elements as the researching online unfolded, was the murder of Stanford White that occurred on this site when it was the home of the second Madison Square Garden. He was the architect for that building and then I got to wondering what happened –
apparently Mr. Stanford White was a bit on the racy side . . .
The opening night celebration was attended by 17,000 people, some of whom paid as much as $50 per head. In the audience were some of the wealthiest, most influential figures of the age: J.P. Morgan, the Pierponts, the Whitneys, General William Tecumseh Sherman, and the architect Stanford White.
White, ironically, would spend his last hours in the roof garden cabaret 16 years later. It is a story that still fascinates.
Stanford White was not only America’s leading urban architect but also one of the most notorious of playboys. His name had been linked with many of the beauties of the age, including the Floradora Girls who performed nightly at the Garden’s Casino. One of those girls was a beautiful young woman named Evelyn Nesbitt who had married a Pittsburgh millionaire named Harry Thaw. White’s name had been romantically linked with Nesbitt before and after her marriage to Thaw. (and I found more about that story on some other sites.)
White designed the second of four successive buildings with the name Madison Square Garden, all built in the same place as the first. White’s massive facility featured the largest amphitheater in America, equipped with a tank for aquatic shows.
http://www.nyc-architecture.com/GON/GON016.htm
Madison Square Garden before 1925 - NYC Architecture site
(from)
http://www.nyc-architecture.com/GON/GON016.htm
**
Also mentioned on that page –
Madison Square Garden II survived for 34 years until the New York Life Insurance Company which held a mortgage on the land, decided to demolish the building in 1924.
***
Apparently Stanford White had built himself an apartment in the Tower of the Madison Square Garden which was capped with a fully nude statue of Diana, the Roman goddess of the moon, the hunt and of love. (that statue ended up disappearing, but there is a copy of it that can be found – “In 1893 a hollow second version of the statue, 13 ft (4.0 m) tall and
made of gilded copper, replaced the original. This is now at the
Philadelphia Museum of Art , and a copy is in the
Museum of the City of New York . [2]
Saint-Gaudens made several smaller variants in bronze, one of which was on display in the entryway of both
Madison Square Garden III , built in 1925, and the current
Madison Square Garden .” from wikipedia entry about Madison Square Garden 1890.)
Evelyn Nesbit
1901 photograph by Rudolf Eickemeyer, Jr.
found on wikipedia
Eventually, Evelyn became one of the most in-demand
artists’ models
in New York. She was seductively beautiful with long, wavy red hair and a slender, shapely figure.
Charles Dana Gibson ,
one of the most popular artists in the country at the time, rendered a
pen-and-ink profile of Evelyn with her red hair arranged in the form of a
question mark. The work, titled “The Eternal Question” [1] , remains one of Gibson’s best known works and Evelyn entered the ranks of the famous turn-of-the-century “ Gibson Girls .”
**
She is the Gibson girl whose portrait I’ve seen on many different things over the years – how amazing. The architect, Stanford White who was responsible for building the second Madison Square Garden which sat where the New York Life Insurance Building site is now, was enamored of Evelyn Nesbit –
As a chorus girl on Broadway in 1901, Nesbit was introduced to acclaimed architect
Stanford White
by
Edna Goodrich , [2]
who was a member along with Nesbit in the company performing
Florodora
at the Casino Theatre. White—a notorious womanizer known as “Stanny” by
his close friends and relatives—was then 47 years of age to her 16.
White had a loft apartment on West Twenty-fourth Street above
FAO Schwarz
with its walkup doorway situated next to the toy store’s back delivery entrance. In her memoir
Prodigal Days ,
Nesbit described her introduction to White at the apartment, decorated
with heavy red velvet curtains and fine paintings, where White and a man
named Reginald Ronalds poured her a glass of champagne and led her
upstairs to a studio outfitted with a red velvet swing. [3]
as I said earlier – Mr. Stanford White was a bit on the racy side.
(from)
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Evelyn_Nesbit
**
The wikipedia entry about Stanford White –
Stanford White
(November 9, 1853 – June 25, 1906) was an
American architect
and partner in the architectural firm of
McKim, Mead, and White , the frontrunner among
Beaux-Arts
firms. He designed a long series of houses for the rich and the very rich, and various public, institutional, and religious buildings, some of which can be found to this day in places like
Sea Gate, Brooklyn . His design principles embodied the “ American Renaissance “.
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stanford_White
He also designed the Washington Square Arch in 1889 and the Century Club in New York City – among a long list of other things including the Boston Public Library. (and the Second Madison Square Garden in New York City 1890).
Washington Square Arch
McKim, Mead and White also designed the
American Academy in Rome , which crowns the
Gianicolo
hill, and looks across the city to the Villa Medici and the Borghese gardens. An imposing edifice, the American Academy is built in the style of the Metropolitan Museum of Art, the north and south wings of which McKim, Mead, and White designed in 1911.
(note – Stanford White partner –
he joined
Charles Follen McKim
and
William Rutherford Mead
to create the firm, McKim, Mead and White, in 1879).
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stanford_White
He also was the architect for the New York Herald Building built 1894 and which was demolished in 1921. from wikipedia –
When the Herald was still under the authority of its original
publisher, Bennett, it was considered to be the most invasive and
sensationalist of the leading New York papers at the time. Its ability
to entertain the public with timely daily news made it the leading
circulation paper of its time.
New York’s
Herald Square
is named after the
New York Herald
newspaper; in the north side of the square there is a sculpture commemorating the Bennetts. North of Herald Square is
Times Square , which is named after rival
The New York Times . (from)
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/New_York_Herald
James Gordon Bennett, Jr.
(May 10, 1841 – May 14, 1918) was publisher of the
New York Herald , founded by his father,
James Gordon Bennett, Sr. , who immigrated from
Scotland . He was generally known as Gordon Bennett to distinguish him from his father. [1]
He was the youngest Commodore ever of the
New York Yacht Club .In 1880, Bennett commissioned
McKim, Mead, and White
to design the
Newport Casino
in
Newport, RI .
He did not marry until 73 to Maud Potter, widow of George de Reuter, son of Julius Paul Reuter, founder of
Reuters news agency . He died on May 14, 1918 in
Beaulieu-sur-Mer ,
Alpes-Maritimes ,
France .
And that is interesting because of how the Hearst papers handled it when Stanford White was killed by Evelyn Nesbit’s millionaire husband, calling it the “trial of the century.”
Also about Stanford White and his upper echelon friends –
He designed and decorated
Fifth Avenue
mansions for the
Astors , the
Vanderbilts
(in 1905), and other high society families. His
Washington Square Arch
still stands in
Washington Square Park ,
and so do many of his clubs, which were focal points of New York
society: the Century, Metropolitan, Players, Lambs, Colony and Harmonie
clubs. His clubhouse for the
Atlantic Yacht Club , built in 1894 overlooking
Gravesend Bay , burned down in 1934. Sons of society families also resided in White’s
St. Anthony Hall
Chapter House at Williams College (now occupied by college offices).
[1] [2]
Pictured at:
[3]
(from –
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stanford_White
)
So, what happened?
at the Madison Square Roof Garden (on the roof of a building that he had designed 15 years previously), White was shot point blank in the face and killed by
Harry Kendall Thaw . [1]
Thaw was the jealous millionaire husband of
Evelyn Nesbit , a popular actress and artist’s model, with whom White had had a sexual relationship when she was 16 (to his 47). [3]
William Randolph Hearst ‘s newspapers sensationalized the murder, and it became known as the
Trial of the Century .
Years later, White’s son, Lawrence Grant White would write bitterly, “On the night of June 25th, 1906, while attending a performance at Madison Square Garden, Stanford White was shot from behind [by] a crazed profligate whose great wealth was used to besmirch his victim’s memory during the series of notorious trials that ensued.”
White was noted for his womanizing –  he had a red velvet swing installed in an apartment where Nesbit and other girls “in varying degrees of undress” would entertain him, which became a focal point of press coverage of the trial. There are conflicting accounts of whether this swing was in the “ Giralda ” tower at the old Madison Square Garden, or in a nearby building on 24th Street. [4]
(from –
Another interesting note –
White renovated the mansion at #16
Gramercy Park
for actor
Edwin Booth
to be the headquarters for the
Players Club . (there were a number of clubs in New York at that time, several of which included memberships for Stanford White – along with this one and the Century Club, also.)
The major archive for his firm,
McKim, Mead, and White , is held by the
New-York Historical Society .
Also, I found this very interesting about Mr. Henry Thaw who killed Stanford White, claiming it was because he wanted to defend his wife’s honor, Evelyn Nesbit . . .
Thaw has been credited with the invention of the
speedball , an injected combination of
morphine
and/or
heroin
along with
cocaine
sometime between 1896 and 1906. He was also reported by newspapers at the time of his trial to have once consumed an entire bottle of
laudanum
in a single sitting and carry a special silver case full of syringes and other parts of a large “outfit” of injecting equipment.
After his expulsion from Harvard, Thaw bounced around between Pennsylvania and New York, injecting himself with both
morphine
and
cocaine
and frequenting
Broadway
shows, which he described as “studying.” In fact, Thaw made a habit of studying chorus girls, and this hobby first brought him into contact with noted architect
Stanford White . White, who had a similar hobby, had made some disparaging remarks about Thaw to a group of chorus girls Thaw was engaged in wooing, and Thaw blamed their subsequent snub on White’s influence.
(from   –
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Harry_K._Thaw
)
***
More about these things –
The
Former New York Life Insurance Company Building , also known as the
Clock Tower Building , located at 346
Broadway
between Catherine Lane and Leonard Street, in
Manhattan ,
New York City
was built between 1894 and 1899. [2]
The company’s headquarters building, originally built in 1868-1870, needed to be expanded eastward to
Lafayette Street
and
Stephen Decatur Hatch
was engaged for the job. [2]
Clock Tower Building New York City which had been the original New York Life Insurance Building - redesigned by Stanford White firm before the new building was built for the New York Life Insurance Company where the old Madison Square location had been
Hatch designed the extension, but died before construction could be completed. [3]
The firm of
McKim, Mead & White
took over the work, and completed the extension in 1894, following Hatch’s design. [2]
The company then decided to replace the original building as well, and McKim, Mead & White provided a “palazzo-like” design [2]
with a clock tower whose clock was manufactured and installed by the E. Howard Clock Company. [4]
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Former_New_York_Life_Insurance_Company_Building
346 Broadway Tower Clock –
Written by Marvin Schneider, 1985
The clock was manufactured and installed by the E. Howard Clock Company of Boston, New York and Chicago for the New York Life Insurance Company in 1897.
Prior to 1980 the clock had not worked for at least twenty years and had not been lighted for night-time viewing for over thirty years.
It was restored, as a gift to the City of New York, by Mr. Marvin Schneider of Brooklyn and Mr. Eric Reiner of Spring Valley, New York. Both are New York City employees who donated their services, working on this restoration on their lunch hours and days off for more than one year. The New York Daily News of December 4, 1979 described their effort: (please check the link for all of this.)
This clock is unusual, especially in New York City, in that it is completely original. Many clocks, including the New York City Hall clock and the Jefferson Market Courthouse clock, have been electrified. The 346 Broadway clock, in its original state, still lives up to the Howard Company’s guarantee to run accurate to within ten seconds a month.
http://www.clocks.org/new_york_state/ny_manhattan_broadway_346_index.html
A look inside (part of a series of photographs of the clock tower building / old New York Life Insurance Company building clock)
http://www.clocks.org/new_york_state/ny_manhattan_broadway_346_3.htm
and the gears / works of the clock inside –
http://www.clocks.org/new_york_state/ny_manhattan_broadway_346_4.htm
**
New York Life Building
The company was founded in 1845 as the
Nautilus Insurance Company
in
New York City , with assets of just $17,000. It was renamed the New York Life Insurance Company in 1849. Its first headquarters were at 112-114 Broadway; the first president was James DePeyster Ogden. The current New York Life headquarters was designed by noted architect
Cass Gilbert
and completed in 1928.
The New York Life building , at 51 Madison Avenue, was constructed during the presidency of Darwin P. Kingsley.
Key Dates:
1841:
Nautilus Insurance Company is chartered to sell fire and marine insurance.
1849:
A product shift is marked by name change to New-York Life Insurance Company.
1868:
The company opens its first international office.
1892:
A branch office system is implemented by company president John A. McCall.
1905:
New York state investigation of insurance industry results in new regulations subsequently fought by New York Life.
1929:
The company moves to Madison Avenue corporate headquarters.
1951:
The first group insurance policies are issued.
1969:
A separate entity is created to manage growing commercial and residential real estate holdings, (called Nautilus Realty Corporation, my note)
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/New_York_Life_Insurance_Company
and –
Source:
International Directory of Company Histories, Vol. 45. St. James Press, 2002.
http://www.fundinguniverse.com/company-histories/New-York-Life-Insurance-Company-Company-History.html
**
Salisbury remains the
tallest church spire in the UK . To this day the large supporting
pillars
at the corners of the spire are seen to bend inwards under the stress. The addition of reinforcing tie beams above the
crossing , designed by
Christopher Wren
in 1668, arrested further deformation. [6]
The beams were hidden by a false ceiling, installed below the lantern stage of the tower.
The chapter house also displays the best-preserved of the four surviving original copies of
Magna Carta . This copy came to Salisbury because
Elias of Dereham , who was present at
Runnymede
in 1215, was given the task of distributing some of the original copies. Later, Elias became a
Canon
of Salisbury and supervised the construction of Salisbury Cathedral.
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Salisbury_Cathedral
The design of the New York Life Insurance Building by Cass Gilbert was fashioned on the Salisbury Cathedral design according to the wikipedia entry about it. Surprisingly, one of only four surviving original copies of the Magna Carta are kept there.
**
About the first Madison Square Garden that sat on the site of the 1926 building for New York Life Insurance – owner of the property is listed as –
William 			Kissam Vanderbilt
Madison Square Garden (1879)
The building that became Madison Square Garden was originally the
New York and Harlem Railroad
passenger depot before being leased [1]
to
P.T. Barnum
when the depot moved uptown in 1871. Barnum converted it into an oval arena 270 feet (82 m) long, with seats and benches in banks, that he called the “Great Roman Hippodrome”, [1]
where he presented circuses and other performances. The roofless building, which was also called “Barnum’s Monster Classical and Geological Hippodrome,” was 420 feet (130 m) by 200 feet (61 m). [1]
In 1876 the open-air arena was leased to band leader
Patrick Gilmore , who renamed it “Gilmore’s Garden” and presented flower shows, beauty contests, temperance and revivial meetings, and the first
Westminster Kennel Club Dog Show , called at the time (1877) the “First Annual N.Y. Bench Show.” [1]
Gilmore also presented boxing, but since competitive boxing matches were technically illegal at the time, he called then “exhibitions” or “illustrated lectures.”
Note that Susan B. Anthony story and her attendance as well as membership in a number of temperance society goings on and her father at one point worked for the New York Life Insurance company – ( just as an aside) –
A little more from that wikipedia entry –
After the death of
Commodore Vanderbilt , who owned the site, his son
William Kissam Vanderbilt
took back control and announced the renaming of the arena to “Madison Square Garden” on May 31, 1879. [1]
Vanderbilt presented sporting events such as indoor
track and field
meets, a convention of
Elks , the
National Horse Show
and more boxing, including some bouts featuring
John L. Sullivan , who began a four-year series of exhibitions on July 1882, drawing over-capacity crowds. [1]
P.T. Barnum also used the Garden to exhibit
Jumbo , the elephant he had bought from the
London Zoo ; he drew sufficient business to recover the $10,000 pricetag. [1]
Another notable use of the first Garden was as a
velodrome , an oval bicycle racing track with banked curves. At the time, bicycle racing was one of the biggest sports in the country. “Races testing speed and endurance drew huge crowds, with the top riders among the sports stars of their day. The bike races at Madison Square Garden were all the rage around the turn of the 20th century. A velodrome circuit flourished around the country, with the best racers earning $100,000 to $150,000 a year at a time when carpenters were lucky to make $5,000.” [3]
Madison Square Garden was the most important bicycle racing track in the United States and the Olympic discipline known as the
Madison
is named after the original Garden.
(from  –
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Madison_Square_Garden_%281879%29
This entry also describes the group who purchased the Garden from Vanderbilt to create the second Madison Square Garden there –
Vanderbilt eventually sold what
Harper’s Weekly
called his “patched-up grumy, drafty combustible, old shell” to a syndicate that included
J. P. Morgan ,
Andrew Carnegie ,
James Stillman
and
W. W. Astor , who closed it to build a new arena designed by noted architect
Stanford White . Demolition began in July 1889, [1]
and the
second Madison Square Garden , which cost more than a half-million dollars to build, opened on June 6, 1890. It was demolished in 1926, and the
New York Life Building , designed by
Cass Gilbert
and completed in 1928, replaced it on the site.
The new building, which replaced an antiquated
open-air structure which was previously a railroad passenger depot , was built by a syndicate which included
J. P. Morgan ,
Andrew Carnegie ,
P. T. Barnum , [2] ,
Darius Mills ,
James Stillman
and
W. W. Astor . White gave them a
Beaux-Arts
structure with a
Moorish
feel, including a minaret-like tower modeled after
Giralda , the bell tower of the
Cathedral of Seville
[2]
– soaring 32 stories – the city’s second tallest building at the time – dominating
Madison Square Park . It was 200 feet (61 m) by 485 feet (148 m), and the main hall, which was the largest in the world, measured 200 feet (61 m) by 350 feet (110 m), with permanent seating for 8,000 people and floor space for thousands more. It had a 1200-seat theatre, a concert hall with a capacity of 1500, the largest restaurant in the city and a roof garden cabaret. [3]
The final cost for the building, which the
New York Times
called “one of the great institutions of the town, to be mentioned along with Central Park and the bridge of Brooklyn” was $3 million. [3]
Here is the part about the statue of Diana that had originally been set atop the Madison Square Garden Giralda Tower –
Topping the Garden’s tower was a statue of
Diana , by noted sculptor
Augustus Saint-Gaudens , which caused Madison Square Park to become known as “Diana’s little wooded park”. The original bronze statue was 18 ft (5.5 m) tall and weighed 1,800 lb (820 kg), and spun with the wind; Saint-Gaudens had draped the statue in cloth, but this was soon blown away. [2]
The statue was put in place on in 1891, but was soon thought to be too large by Saint-Gaudens and White. It was removed and placed on top of a building at The
World’s Columbian Exposition
in
Chicago , but the bottom half was destroyed by a fire after the close of the Exhibition, and the top half was lost.
Augustus Saint-Gaudens' statue of Diana originally set on the top of an orb on the Madison Square Garden tower where Stanford White had an apartment
In 1893 a hollow second version of the statue, 13 ft (4.0 m) tall and made of gilded copper, replaced the original. This is now at the
Philadelphia Museum of Art , and a copy is in the
Museum of the City of New York . [2]
Saint-Gaudens made several smaller variants in bronze, one of which was on display in the entryway of both
Madison Square Garden III , built in 1925, and the current
Madison Square Garden .
The opening of the new arena was attended by over 17,000 people – who paid up to $50 for tickets to the event – including
J.P. Morgan , the
Pierponts , the
Whitneys
and
General William Tecumseh Sherman . [3]
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Madison_Square_Garden_%281890%29
Despite its importance to the New York cultural scene in the early 20th century, Madison Square Garden II was never any more of a financial success than the original Garden was, [4]
and the
New York Life Insurance Company , which held the mortgage on it, decided to tear it down to make way for a new headquarters building, which would become the landmark
Cass Gilbert -designed
New York Life Building . Construction on the new building began in 1926, and was completed in 1928.
Cass Gilbert
(1859–1934)
Cass Gilbert was highly regarded by politicians and other luminaries of the day. President Theodore Roosevelt made him chairman of the Council of Fine Arts, and President Wilson reappointed him. Gilbert received many gold metals in the United States and Europe. The Society of Arts and Sciences awarded him for inaugurating the age of skyscrapers. He served as president of the American Institute of Architects in 1908 and 1909, and helped found the Architectural League of New York, serving as its president for two years.
The Foley Square Courthouse was designed by Cass Gilbert, one of the most prominent architects of his day. Gilbert (1859-1934) was born in Zanesville, Ohio and began his architectural career as an apprentice in the office of Abraham Radcliff of St. Paul. In 1878, he enrolled in the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, where he spent a year studying architecture. In 1880, he spent several months travelling and studying in England, France and Italy
before returning to New York and joining the prestigious firm of McKim, Mead and White as Stanford White’s personal assistant.
(from)
http://www.nyc-architecture.com/ARCH/ARCH-CassGilbert.htm
Aha – so Cass Gilbert was Stanford White’s personal assistant before White was killed by Henry Thaw – Hmm…..
Also –
Madison Square is probably best known around the world for providing the name of
Madison Square Garden , a sports arena and its successor which were located just northeast of the park for 47 years, until 1925. The current Madison Square Garden, the fourth such building, is not in the area. Notable buildings around Madison Square include the
Flatiron Building , the
Met Life Tower , and the
New York Life Building .
Madison Square
is formed by the intersection of
Fifth Avenue
and
Broadway
at
23rd Street
in the
New York City
borough
of
Manhattan . The square was named for
James Madison , fourth
President of the
United States
and the principal author of the
United States Constitution . [1]
“Madison Cottage”, also known as “Corporal Thompson’s Roadhouse” [4]
at Fifth Avenue and 23rd Street, in 1852
The area where Madison Square is now had been a swampy hunting ground, and first came into existence as a public space in 1686. In 1807, “The Parade”, a tract of about 240 acres (97.12 hectares), was set aside for use as an
arsenal , a barracks, and a
potter’s field . There was a
United States Army
arsenal there from 1811 until 1825 when it became the New York House of Refuge for the Society for the Protection of Juvenile Delinquents, for children under sixteen committed by the courts for indefinite periods. In 1839 the building was destroyed by fire. [1] [5] [6]
The size of the tract was reduced in 1814 to 90 acres (36.42 hectares), and it received its current name.
In 1839, a farmhouse located at what is now Fifth Avenue and 23rd Street was turned into a roadhouse under the direction of William “Corporal” Thompson (1807–1872), who later renamed it “Madison Cottage”, after the former president. This house was the last stop for people travelling northward out of the city, or the first stop for those arriving from the north. Though Madison Cottage itself was razed in 1853 to make room for forst Franconi’s Hippodrome [4]
and then the
Fifth Avenue Hotel , [7]
Madison Cottage ultimately gave rise to the names for the adjacent avenue ( Madison Avenue ) and park, which are therefore only indirectly named after President James Madison.
The roots of the
New York Knickerbocker Base Ball Club , one of the first professional baseball teams, are in Madison Square. Amateur players began in 1842 to use a vacant sandlot at 27th and Madison for their games and, eventually,
Alexander Cartwright
suggested they draw up rules for the game and start a professional club. When they lost their sandlot to development, they moved to Hoboken, where they played their first game in 1846. [1] [6]
On May 10, 1847,
Madison Square Park
opened to the public. In 1853, plans were made to build the
Crystal Palace
there, but strong public opposition and protests caused the palace to be relocated to
Bryant Park . From the 1850s to the 1870s the square was the center of an aristocratic neighborhood of
brownstones , where
Theodore Roosevelt , and
Edith Wharton
were born. [1]
The
Fifth Avenue Hotel , a luxury hotel built by developer Amos Eno, and initially known as “Eno’s Folly” because it was so far away from the hotel district, stood on the west side of Madison Square from 1859 to 1908. The first hotel in the city with
elevators , which were
steam -operated and known as the “vertical railroad”, it had fireplaces in every bedroom, private bathrooms, and public rooms which saw many elegant events. Notable visitors to the hotel included
Mark Twain , famed Swedish singer
Jenny Lind , U.S. Presidents
Chester A. Arthur
and
Ulysses S. Grant
and the
Prince of Wales .
Madison Square was also the site in November 1864 of a political rally, complete with torchlight parade and fireworks, in support of the Presidential candidacy of
Democrat
General
George B. McClellan , who was running against his old boss,
Abraham Lincoln .
Madison Square Park was relandscaped in 1870 by
William Grant
and
Ignatz Pilat , [8]
a former assistant to
Frederick Law Olmstead . The new design brought in the sculptures that now reside in the park. One notable sculpture is the seated bronze portrait of
Secretary of State William H. Seward , by
Randolph Rogers
(1876), which sits at the southwest entrance to the park. Seward, who is best remembered for purchasing
Alaska
(“Seward’s Folly”) from
Russia , was the first New Yorker to have a monument erected in his honor.
Other statues in the park depict
Roscoe Conkling , who served in
Congress
in both the
House
and the
Senate ;
Chester Alan Arthur , the twenty-first
President of the United States ; and Admiral
David Farragut , who is supposed to have said “Damn the torpedoes, full speed ahead” in the
Battle of Mobile Bay
during the
Civil War . The Farragut Memorial (1881), which was first erected at Fifth Avenue and 26th Street and moved to the Square’s northern end in 1935, [12]
was designed by
Augustus Saint-Gaudens
(sculpture) and architect
Stanford White
(base).
Other park highlights are an ornamental fountain added in 1867 and the Eternal Light Flagpole, dedicated on
Armistice Day
1923 and restored in 2002, which commemorates the return of American soldiers and sailors from
World War I .
In 1876 a large celebration was held in Madison Square Park to honor the centennial of the signing of the
Declaration of Independence , and from 1876 to 1882, the torch and arm of the
Statue of Liberty
were exhibited in the park in an effort to raise funds for the building of the base of the statue.
The
second Madison Square Garden , designed by
Stanford White
Madison Square was the site of some of the first electric street lighting in the city.
In 1879 the city authorized the Brush Electric Light Company to build a generating station at 25th Street, powered by steam, that provided electricity for a series of arc lights which were installed on Broadway between
Union Square
(at
14th Street ) and Madison Square. The lights were illuminated on 20 December 1880. A year later, 160-foot (49 m) “sun towers” with clusters of arc lights were erected in Union and Madison Squares. [6]
America’s first community
Christmas tree
was illuminated in Madison Square Park on December 24, 1912, an event which is commemorated by the Star of Hope, installed in 1916 at the southern end of the park.
In 1936, to commemorate the
centennial
of the opening of Madison Avenue, the Fifth Avenue Association donated a tree from the
Virginia
estate of former president James Madison. It is located toward the center of the eastern perimeter of the park.
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Madison_Square_Park
The building that became the first Madison Square Garden at 26th Street and Madison Avenue was originally the
passenger depot
of the
New York and Boston Rail Road . When the depot moved uptown in 1871, the building was sold to
P.T. Barnum
who converted it into the open-air “Hippodrome” for circus performances. In 1876 it became “Gilmore’s Garden,” where
Patrick Gilmore
presented marathon races, temperance and revival meetings, balls, the first
Westminster Kennel Club Dog Show
(1877), as well as boxing “exhibitions” or “illustrated lectures”, since competitive boxing matches were illegal at the time. It was finally renamed “Madison Square Garden” in 1879 by
William Kissam Vanderbilt , the son of
Commodore Vanderbilt , who continued to present sporting events, the National Horse Show, and more boxing, including bouts by
John L. Sullivan
that drew huge crowds. Vanderbilt eventually sold what
Harper’s Weekly
called his “patched-up grumy, drafty combustible, old shell” to a syndicate that included
J. P. Morgan ,
Andrew Carnegie ,
James Stillman
and
W. W. Astor . [6] [15]
The building that replaced it was a
Beaux-Arts
structure designed by the noted architect
Stanford White . White kept an apartment in the building, and was shot dead in the Garden’s rooftop restaurant by millionaire
Harry K. Thaw
over an affair White had with Thaw’s wife, the well-known actress
Evelyn Nesbit , who White seduced when she was 16. The resulting sensational press coverage of the scandal caused Thaw’s trial to be one of the first
Trials of the Century .
Madison Square became known as “Diana’s little wooded park” after the huge bronze statue of the Roman goddess
Diana
by
Augustus Saint-Gaudens
that stood atop the 32-story tower of White’s arena – at the time it was the second-tallest building in the city.
The Garden hosted the annual French Ball, both the Barnum and the
Ringling Brothers
circuses, orchestral performances, light operas and romantic comedies, and the
1924 Democratic National Convention , which nominated
John W. Davis
after 103 ballots, but it was never a financial success. [6]
It was torn down soon after, and the venue moved uptown. Today, the arena retains its name, even though it is no longer located in the area of Madison Square.
Nearby, on Madison Avenue between 26th and
27th Streets , on the site of the old Madison Square Garden, is the
New York Life Building , built in 1928 and designed by
Cass Gilbert , with a square tower topped by a striking gilded pyramid. Also of note is the statuary adorning the Appellate Division of the
New York State Supreme Court
on Madison Avenue at
25th Street .
Also the first skating rink in New York City was at the Madison Square Garden complex, (my note).
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Madison_Square_Park
**
Harry Kendall Thaw
Education
Harvard 			University
Known for
Murder of
Stanford 			White
Spouse
Evelyn 			Florence Nesbit
He was born on February 12, 1871 to
Pittsburgh
coal and railroad baron
William Thaw . [1] [2]
Violent and paranoid from a very young age (his mother claimed his problems had started in the
womb ), Harry spent his childhood bouncing from private school to private school in Pittsburgh, never doing well and described by teachers as unintelligent and a troublemaker. Still, as the son of William Thaw, he was granted admission to the
University of Pittsburgh , where he was to study law, though he apparently did little studying. After a few years he used his name and social status to transfer to
Harvard University .
Thaw later bragged that he had studied
poker
at Harvard. He also went on long drinking binges, attended cockfights, and spent much of his time romancing young women. He was expelled after being picked up for chasing a cab driver through the streets of
Cambridge
with a
shotgun , though he claimed it was unloaded.
Thaw has been credited with the invention of the
speedball , an injected combination of
morphine
and/or
heroin
along with
cocaine
sometime between 1896 and 1906. He was also reported by newspapers at the time of his trial to have once consumed an entire bottle of
laudanum
in a single sitting and carry a special silver case full of syringes and other parts of a large “outfit” of injecting equipment.
After his expulsion from Harvard, Thaw bounced around between Pennsylvania and New York, injecting himself with both
morphine
and
cocaine
and frequenting
Broadway
shows, which he described as “studying.” In fact, Thaw made a habit of studying chorus girls, and this hobby first brought him into contact with noted architect
Stanford White . White, who had a similar hobby, had made some disparaging remarks about Thaw to a group of chorus girls Thaw was engaged in wooing, and Thaw blamed their subsequent snub on White’s influence.
In the spring of 1906, Harry and Evelyn decided to travel to Europe and New York. On June 25, while in New York, Evelyn and Harry saw
Stanford White
while dining at the Cafe Martin. After learning that White was to attend the premiere of
Mam’zelle Champagne , a show the Thaws were also planning to attend, Harry took Evelyn back to their hotel and disappeared, returning just in time to pick up Evelyn and head to the show — curiously dressed in a black overcoat, though it was a hot evening. At the rooftop theatre of
Madison Square Garden , the hat check girl repeatedly tried to relieve Harry of his heavy coat, but he refused. He wandered through the crowd during the show, approaching White’s table several times, only to back away on each occasion. During the finale, “I Could Love A Million Girls”, Thaw produced a pistol and fired three shots at close range into Stanford White’s face, killing him. [2]
The crowd initially suspected the shooting might be part of the show, as elaborate practical jokes were popular in high society at the time. Soon, however, it became apparent that Stanford White was dead. Thaw, holding the gun aloft, walked through the crowd and met Evelyn at the elevator. When she asked what he’d done, Thaw said that he had “probably saved your life.”
For his part, Thaw continued to live as he had always lived. The year after his release, he was accused of sexually assaulting and
horsewhipping
Fred Gump, Jr., a high-school student he brought from Kansas City to New York. When Thaw was indicted for the assault, he fled to Philadelphia, where he was found with a self-inflicted slash to the throat. He was again adjudicated insane, and sent to an asylum. After seven years, he was declared sane and released in 1924. [1]
(from)
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Harry_K._Thaw
***
An interesting note about the Florodora Girls – ( Evelyn Nesbit was a Florodora Girl when she met Stanford White and Thaw.)
In the film
On 	the Town , Chip ( Frank 	Sinatra ) rides with Brunhilde Esterhazy ( Betty 	Garrett ), a female cab driver, who sings that she wants him to 	“Come Up to My Place.” He is picking sights to see from an 	out-of-date guidebook and tells her that he wants to see the 	Florodora Girls. She informs him that the show closed many years 	ago.
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Florodora
The famous double sextet, “”Tell Me Pretty Maiden”, in the NY production, 1900
FloroDora Girls NYC 1900 - wikipedia - The famous double sextet, ""Tell Me Pretty Maiden", in the NY production, 1900 which became the most successful show tune of its time
Florodora’s
famous double sextet, “ Tell Me Pretty Maiden “,
became the most successful show tune of its time. Other songs ranged
from traditional waltzes (“The Silver Star of Love” and “The Fellow Who
Might”) to the more quirkily rhythmic and long-lined numbers for which
Stuart was known. A good part of the success of the musical was
attributed to its lovely
sextet of chorines ,
called “the English Girls” in the score, but soon popularly dubbed the
“Florodora Girls”.
These six roles were filled by identically sized
women, all 5 ft. 4 in. (about 1.63 m) and 130 lb (59 kg), and were the
object of popular adoration : young male admirers persuaded many to leave
the show to marry them, and more than 70 women played these roles in
the first run of the play in New York. The six women who were the
original sextet members in New York were: Marie Wilson, Agnes Wayburn,
Marjorie Relyea, Vaughn Texsmith, Daisy Green and Margaret Walker. A
1930 MGM film starring
Marion Davies
was called
The Florodora Girl . [3]
Florodora
was the first of a series of successful musicals by Stuart, including
The Silver Slipper
(1901),
The School Girl
(1903),
The Belle of Mayfair
(1906), and
Havana
(1908).
(from)
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Florodora
**
Century Association
Official name: Century Association Clubhouse
Designated:
July 15, 1982
Reference #:
82003369 [1]
Location:
7 West 43rd St,
Manhattan , 			 New York City
Coordinates:
40°45′16″N 			73°58′52″W ﻿
/ 			 ﻿ 40.75444°N 			73.98111°W ﻿
/ 			40.75444; -73.98111
Built:
1889-1891 [2]
Architect:
McKim, 			Mead & White
Architectural style:
Italian 			Renaissance Revival
The
Century Association
is a
New York City
club
with a distinguished history. It evolved out an an earlier organization – the Sketch Club, founded in 1829 by editor and poet
William Cullen Bryant
and his friends – and was established in 1847 by Bryant and others as a club to promote interest in the fine arts and literature [3]
which was open to “Artists, Literary Men, Scientists, Physicians, Officers of the Army and Navy, members of the Bench and Bar, Engineers, Clergymen, Representatives of the Press, Merchants and men of leisure.” [4]
It was originally intended to have a limited membership of 100 men. [3]
Its early members included Bryant, painters
Asher Durand ,
Winslow Homer , and
John Frederick Kensett , architect
Stanford White , judge
Charles Patrick Daly
[5] , author
Lewis Gaylord Clark
[4]
and architect
Calvert Vaux , [6]
the co-creator with
Frederick Law Olmstead
of
Central Park . However, by the middle 1850s, the membership primarily consisted of merchants, businessmen, lawyers and doctors. [4]
43rd Street clubhouse
The Century Association, which at the time had about 800 members, [3]
left 15th Street in 1891 for a
McKim, Mead & White -designed
Italian Renaissance -style
palazzo
at 7
West 43rd Street , which is also a
New York City landmark , designated in 1967, [2]
as well as on the
National Register of Historic Places
since 1982. McKim, Mead & White’s design established a preferred style for private clubhouse buildings all over the United States in the following decades. [2]
The building was restored by
Jan Hird Pokorny
in 1992. [2]
Century Association
Century Association Clubhouse in 1892
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Century_Association
***
another look at the Madison Square Garden in place before the New York Life Insurance Company building was built from the view of Madison Square Park –
The tower of Madison Square Garden dominates the skyline over Madison Square and Madison Square Park in this 1908 image. - from wikipedia
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Madison_Square_Garden_%281890%29
**
A little bit more –
Construction of the arch
Washington Square Arch framing the Empire State Building
In 1889, to celebrate the centennial of
George Washington ‘s inauguration as
president
of the
United States , a large plaster and wood
Memorial Arch
was erected over Fifth Avenue just north of the park. The temporary plaster and wood arch was so popular that in 1892 a permanent
marble
arch, designed by the New York architect
Stanford White , was erected, standing 77 feet (23 m) was built just inside the park. During the excavations for the eastern leg of the arch, human remains, a coffin and a gravestone dated 1803 were uncovered 10 feet (3 m) below ground level. [4]
The inscription on the arch reads:
Let us raise a standard to which the wise and the honest can repair. The event is in the hand of God. — WashingtonWhite modeled the arch after the 1806
Arc de Triomphe
in Paris. In 1918 two statues of George Washington were added to the north side.
The first fountain was completed in 1852. The fountain was replaced in 1872. The monument to Giuseppe Garibaldi was unveiled in 1888. [4]
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Washington_Square_Arch#Construction_of_the_arch
**
**
Dateline – (mine for this stuff)
wed – April 4, 1905 (Evelyn Nesbitt and Thaw) she was 21 years old? five years after Stanford White invited her over – and took her virginity
Thaw killed White on June 25, 1906 (fourteen and a half months after he married Evelyn Nesbit)
but he had been seeing her awhile before marrying her
Thaw was very jealous – one of the men she was dating – a polo player named Waterbury died young at 45 – in 1920 –
She also dated John Barrymore and newspaper magnate son, Robert J. Collier
Evelyn Nesbit was born on Christmas Day, December 25, 1884
She was 16 when first introduced to Stanford White and he was 47 – she lost her virginity to him while drunk in his room of mirrors in his apartment above FAO Schwartz toy store – on 23 rd
St?
She was barely 17, in 1901 when John Barrymore was courting her and her mother didn’t believe he and his stage family had enough money to be appropriate for her.
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Evelyn_Nesbit
As White moved on to other young, virginal women, Nesbit was courted by the young
John Barrymore , beginning in 1901. The two met when Barrymore caught a performance of The Florodora Girls and sent flowers backstage. Barrymore, who was from a well known theatrical family, was then 19 and seeking a career in cartooning. He was considered too poor by her mother to be a suitable match for the 17-year-old Nesbit. Her mother and White were enraged when they found out about the relationship. However, Nesbit was finally smitten with someone her own age and often returned to Barrymore’s apartment after hours. White, still a strong influence in her life, arranged to send her away to a
boarding school
in
Wayne ,
New Jersey
(run by the mother of film director
Cecil B. DeMille ) in part to extricate her from John Barrymore. Barrymore in the meantime proposed marriage to Nesbit, in the presence of Mrs Nesbit and White, but Evelyn turned down his offer.
Before that –
Stanford White had endeared himself to Nesbit’s mother by making arrangements for her son to be admitted to the Chester Military Academy near Philadelphia, and she placed so much trust in the architect that when she arranged an out-of-town trip, Stanford White and Evelyn Nesbit saw her off at the train station, where she left her daughter in his care. [5]
Several nights after her mother left for Pittsburgh, Nesbit was summoned to the apartment by White, where the two shared dinner and several glasses of champagne before she was given a tour that ended in the “Mirror Room.” On the same upper floor as the studio featuring the velvet swing, the ten-by-ten room held a green velvet-covered couch and walls and ceilings covered with mirrors. Later, after more champagne, the two returned downstairs and Nesbit tried on a yellow satin kimono before she “passed out.” She recounted that she awoke in bed, nearly naked with White lying beside her, and that she “entered that room a virgin,” but did not come out as one. [6]
Later, Nesbit related this story to millionaire Harry Thaw after he repeatedly hounded her to know why she refused to marry him. She later did, but at the end of her life, Nesbit claimed that the charismatic “Stanny” was the only man she had ever loved.
In later life –
She lived quietly for several years in
Northfield, New Jersey . She overcame suicide attempts, alcoholism, and an addiction to
morphine , and in her later years taught classes in
ceramics . She was a technical adviser on the 1955 movie
The Girl in the Red Velvet Swing .
Nesbit published two memoirs,
The Story Of My Life
(1914), and
Prodigal Days
(1934).
**
Very interesting . . .
]]>
https://newyorkcitycricketguide.wordpress.com/2011/01/19/new-york-life-insurance-building-madison-square-garden-original-site-stories-of-new-york/feed/
4
cricketdiane
New York Life Insurance Building Placard - New York City photo - by cricketdiane 2010
New York Life Building from wikipedia
New York Life Insurance Company Building New York City Lighted Gold Pinnacle - wikipedia
cricketdiane10 - 11-28-10 - Day 6 - New York City New York Life Insurance Building Lanterns - cricketdiane photo 2010
Madison Square Garden before 1925 - NYC Architecture site
Evelyn Nesbit - the original Gibson girl - New York City 1901 - member of Floradora girls - wikipedia
Washington Square Arch designed by Stanford White - New York City 1889 - wikipedia
Clock Tower Building New York City which had been the original New York Life Insurance Building - redesigned by Stanford White firm
Augustus Saint-Gaudens statue of Diana originally on the Madison Square Garden tower
FloroDora Girls NYC 1900 - wikipedia
Century Association Clubhouse in 1892
Madison Square Park 1908 - Madison Square Garden Tower - wikipedia
Reflections of steel, skyglass and architecture abound in New York City
https://newyorkcitycricketguide.wordpress.com/2011/01/17/reflections-of-steel-skyglass-and-architecture-abound-in-new-york-city/
https://newyorkcitycricketguide.wordpress.com/2011/01/17/reflections-of-steel-skyglass-and-architecture-abound-in-new-york-city/#comments
Mon, 17 Jan 2011 08:11:24 +0000
http://newyorkcitycricketguide.wordpress.com/?p=9
]]>
Nifty reflections bounce across building’s surfaces everywhere in New York City, many times making surprising contrasts and novel views . . .
Concrete, skyglass, steel and remarkable reflections in the building surfaces of New York City. November 2010 cricketdiane photo.
***
]]>
https://newyorkcitycricketguide.wordpress.com/2011/01/17/reflections-of-steel-skyglass-and-architecture-abound-in-new-york-city/feed/
0
cricketdiane
cricketdiane10 - NY Day 2-3 samsung 005-2