Sonia Gandhi's son Rahul Gandhi gang rape Sukanya
skip to main
|
skip to sidebar
Sonia Gandhi's son Rahul Gandhi gang rape Sukanya
Monday, October 15, 2007
Sonia and Manmohan Singh are
ISI CIA OPUS DEI agents
Sonia Gandhi the Christian plant on India
by OPUS DEI ISI CIA. It is like the earlier CIA plant of a female on Sikkim Royal family
India is run by Christians and Muslims. A child prostitute from Italy was presented in front of an impressionable young Rajiv Gandhi by a combination of ISI/CIA/OPUS DEI.
What we see today is the Christian manipulation to defame and convert Hindus.
First Sonia has removed the Ramanavami holiday. Ram’s birthplace is made in to a disputed issue.
Now the arrogant Christian Sonia and her Christian ministers are saying that there was no Ram.
Her assistant the CM of AP is trying to put pillars in Tiruppati, that is looking like the cross of Christianity.
If one looks at history there were no Mohammad or Jesus Christ, both of them were the creation of imagination and planted personalities.
In Christ’s case it was done after four centuries.
In the case of Mohd it was done after two centuries.
With life span of around 30 years, these fictitious characters were given more than double that life span and those who wrote the Bible or Koran never seen these characters.
There is no historical evidence for the existence of Mohd or Christ.
But will the present Christian-Muslim-Sikh UPA govt will dare to say that.
If Sonia said that Mohd’s existence or Christ’s existence there is no proof she would have been killed by this time by muslims and Christians.
In the case of Rama there are historical
geographical and literature evidence exists.
The UPA minority christian muslim govt is a curse on India and Indians should remove them.
Christians in India are invading the privacy of our home on a daily basis with conversion literature.
Christians condemn Hindu practices in the Christian mafia school they run, to our children.
Christianity is terrorism of the worst kind.
Christian missionaries attack other cultures at home and once a thresh hold level of conversion is reached; further conversion is done on a militant level.
Young kids are donated to the church from poor christian families, as future slaves of Christianity and is known as Nuns and Priests. These humans are not allowed to marry and are used for conversion.
This is a form of religious slavery.
With this conversion, economic exploitation of the worst kind occurs.
All converted christian nations serve the purpose of the West that looted and enslaved us for centuries.
American continent, Australia etc were occupied
by a group of Christian nations from Europe.
Christianity is nothing by an economic organization that feeds on weaker nations. In Christianity divinity was bestowed by a Roman committee on an unknown fellow who lived four centuries earlier and called him Christ.
The Arabs understood it and they created Islam in the same fashion of Christianity.
A bunch of pagan Arab traders copied various texts with the help of some christians and planted the divinity on an unknown pagan Arab who lived some 200 years earlier.
.
Both religions claim that they are loving human kind and are for the humanity. Terrorism by Christians in the NE is a daily affair and yet it is covered up by the Christian controlled media of India.
In 1857 the people’s reaction in Delhi, should be remembered by the Christians where every Christians was slaughtered in 1857.
We don’t want this to happen in India.
Christians have killed some half a billion human beings in the name of religion and surpasses the Muslims who have killed around 75 million so far.
Christian domination of the government should be limited for their own safety.
Christians like Pranab Mukerjee, Ambika Soni, Sonia Gandhi, Y Samuel Rajesekhar Reddy, Oommen Chandy, Mundakkal Mathew Jacob Governer of Meghalaya, Ramesh Chennithala, A.K.Anthony, Vylar Ravi(half Christian as his wife is Christian),Oscar Fernadez, etc which is a never ending list.
Also many top government officials like many IGPs, judges etc are handpicked Christians of Sonia.
On 10-3-2005 some 30 Christian MPs have met the NE terrorist set up NSCN leaders and this should be seen in the light of the calls by ex President Carter for independence for the NE states. Even to get admission in schools and colleges, Hindu children have to convert to Christianity as the Christian church mafia is running the educational institutions with the slave labor of Nuns and Priests control our educational institutions. The nuns and priests are donated to the church while they are kids violating the human norms on slavery and child labor.
During British time Christians were British spies.
Presently Christians in India are enemies of Hindus.
Only time can tell what will happen to the Christians living in India.
Manmohan Singh is an ISI/CIA agent
Indo US nuclear treaty is like perpetual Indus water treaty by Nehru
Manmohan Singh the present PM of India was installed as the Union FM in the Narasimha Rao government (1991-96), by American pressure. Manmohan Singh worked as the Governor, Reserve Bank of India, from September 16, 1982 to January 14, 1985.
It was in 1983 while he was RBI governor that he allowed the ISI/CIA bank
Bank of Credit and Commerce International
( BCCI )
to open its branch in Bombay against RAW advise.
Manmohan was given benefits by BCCI including a foreign scholarship for his daughter.
Manmohan was also taken in to the congress party for his service to ISI/CIA. He was first elected to the Rajya Sabha in 1991.
To become an M. P. from Rajya Sabha he lied on oath that he was an ordinary resident of Assam which he was not.
In spite of the worst financial crises and our gold was being pawned for getting foreign exchange to finance our imports Manmohan gave
Rs. 100 Crores to a private trust known as Rajiv Gandhi Foundation headed by Sonia Gandhi. Manmohan was planted as Prime Minister, on US pressure to Sonia and she complied as her background is known to CIA.
CIA and the Indian church were operating in a villa in Delhi during last election to help Sonia.
BCCI used to fund congress party.
BCCI protocol department used to supply pre-puberty Pakistani girls and boys to the Abu Dhabi Sheikh Zyed by planeloads.
BCCI used to supply Pakistani prostitutes to VIPs all over the world including Indian politicians.
Many of these came to light when the bank BCCI collapsed in 1991 with a loss of some 16 billion dollars and the subsequent investigation by the US Senate as well as UK authorities.
The
Bank of Credit and Commerce International
( BCCI ) was founded in
Pakistan
in 1972. At its peak, it operated in 78 countries, had over 400 branches, and claimed assets of $25 billion. It is the fourth largest bank in history. BCCI became the focus in 1991 of the world's worst financial scandal and what was called a "$20-billion-plus heist" (Beaty & Gwynne 1993). It was found by regulators in the US and UK to be involved in
money laundering ,
bribery , support of
terrorism , arms trafficking, the sale of
nuclear technologies , the commission and facilitation of
tax evasion ,
smuggling ,
illegal immigration , and the illicit purchases of banks and
real estate . The bank was found to have at least $13 billion unaccounted for.
Investigators in the U.S. and the UK revealed that BCCI had been "set up deliberately to avoid centralized regulatory review, and operated extensively in bank secrecy jurisdictions". Its affairs are extraordinarily complex. Its officers were sophisticated international bankers whose apparent objective was to keep their affairs secret, to commit fraud on a massive scale, and to avoid detection".
BCCI organized its own intelligence network, diplomatic corps, and shipping & trading companies.
The
liquidators ,
Deloitte & Touche , filed a lawsuit against
Price Waterhouse
and
Ernst & Young , the bank's auditors, which was settled for $175 million in 1998. A further lawsuit against the ruler of
Abu Dhabi , a major shareholder, was launched in 1999 for around $400 million. BCCI creditors also instituted a $1 billion suit against the
Bank of England
as a regulatory body. BCCI's criminality, including fraud by BCCI and BCCI customers involving billions of dollars; money laundering in Europe, Africa, Asia, and the America; BCCI's bribery of officials in most of those locations; its support of terrorism, arms trafficking, and the sale of nuclear technologies; its management of prostitution; its commission and facilitation of income tax evasion, smuggling, and illegal immigration; its illicit purchases of banks and real estate; and a panoply of financial crimes limited only by the imagination of its officers and customers.
BCCI's founder,
Agha Hasan Abedi , started the bank in
Pakistan
in 1972. Abedi had previously set up the United Bank of Pakistan in 1959. Following the nationalization of United Bank in 1971 he sought to create a new supranational banking entity. BCCI was created with capital from
Sheikh Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahayan , ruler of
Abu Dhabi
in the
United Arab Emirates ,
Bank of America
(25%) and, the
CIA .
CIA were seeking a funding route for the
Afghan Mujahideen , similar to the
Investors Overseas Service
and the
Nugan Hand Bank
in the 1970s. However, the vast majority of BCCI's assets were initially from Abu Dhabi ruler and in return Abedi regularly supplied prepuberty Pakistani boys and girls purchased through its protocol department.
BCCI expanded rapidly in the 1970s, pursuing asset growth over profits, seeking high net-worth individuals and regular large deposits. The company itself divided into BCCI Holdings with the bank under that split into BCCI S.A ( Luxembourg ) and BCCI Overseas ( Grand Cayman ). BCCI also acquired parallel banks through acquisitions: buying the Banque de Commerce et Placements (BCP) of
Geneva
in 1976, and creating
KIFCO
( Kuwait
International Finance Company), Credit & Finance Corporation Ltd, and a series of Cayman-based companies held together as ICIC (International Credit and Investment Company Overseas, International Credit and Commerce [Overseas], etc.). Overall, BCCI expanded from 19 branches in five countries in 1973 to 27 branches in 1974, to 108 branches in 1976, with assets growing from $200 million to $1.6 billion. This growth caused extensive underlying capital problems. By 1977, BCCI was in sufficiently dire financial straits that the
Guardian
later wrote that at this time "BCCI, founded in 1975, was almost certainly insolvent by 1977" - it was using cash from deposits to fund operating expenses, rather than making investments, taking on the attributes of a
Ponzi scheme . Nevertheless BCCI continued to expand, moving into the African markets in 1979, and Asia in the early 1980s. They were among the first foreign banks awarded a license to operate in the Chinese
Special Economic Zone
Shenzhen . Some of China's largest state banks were depositors in BCCI's Shenzhen branch.
By 1980, BCCI was reported to have assets of over $4 billion with over 150 branches in 46 countries.
Bank of America
was "bewildered" with BCCI and reduced its holding in 1980, and the company came to be held by a number of groups, with ICIC owning 70%. By 1989, ICIC's shareholding was reduced to 11% with Abu Dhabi groups holding almost 40%, however large numbers of shares were held by BCCI nominees. The internal structure of the bank was unusual. There was rigid compartmentalization and there were 248 managers and general managers and only two people above them, Abedi and the CEO
Swaleh Naqvi .
F Lee Bailey
and Florida state prosecutor Richard Gerstein were the directors of CenTrust Federal Savings Bank, a failed satellite of the BCCI.
BCCI operated with an uncommon annual auditing system: In 1988, BCCI was implicated in a drug money laundering scheme based in Tampa, Florida, the C-Chase case. The BCCI was called the CIA’s money laundering facility. BCCI pleaded guilty in 1990 but only on the grounds of
respondeat superior .
In 1990, a Price Waterhouse audit of BCCI revealed an unaccountable loss of hundreds of millions of dollars. The bank approached
Sheikh Zayed , who made good the loss in exchange for an increased shareholding of 78%. Much of BCCI's documentation was then also transferred to Abu Dhabi. Today, BCCI's lone surviving remnant is the Union National Bank at Abu Dhabi.
The bank established the Third World Foundation in London, which published the widely circulated
Third World Quarterly
and paid special attention to the promotion of the
Urdu
language and literature through the
Urdu Markaz
located in London.
In March 1991, the Bank of England asked
Price Waterhouse
to carry out an inquiry. On
June 24 ,
1991 , using the codename "Sandstorm" for BCCI, Price Waterhouse submitted the
Sandstorm report
showing that BCCI had engaged in "widespread fraud and manipulation".
Lord Justice Bingham 's report showed that MI5 had known as early as 1987 that Abu Nidal was banking with BCCI in London. The Sandstorm report, included details of how the
Abu Nidal
terrorist group had held accounts at BCCI's
Sloane Street
branch, near
Harrods
in
London . Britain's internal security service,
MI5 , had signed up two sources inside the branch to hand over copies of all documents relating to Abu Nidal's accounts. One source was the
Syrian -born branch manager, Ghassan Qassem, the second a young British employee. The Abu Nidal link man for the BCCI accounts was an Arab based in Iraq named Samir Najmeddin or Najmedeen. Throughout the 80s, BCCI had set up millions of dollars worth of letters of credit for Najmeddin, largely for arms deals with Iraq. Qassem later swore in an
affidavit
that Najmeddin was often accompanied by an American, whom Qassem subsequently identified as the financier
Marc Rich . Rich was later indicted in the U.S. for
tax evasion
and
racketeering
in an apparently unrelated case, fled the country, and received a controversial pardon from
Bill Clinton
on
January 20 ,
2001 . Qassem also told reporters that he had once escorted Abu Nidal, who was allegedly using the name Shakir Farhan, around town to buy a tie, without realizing who he was. This revelation led in 1991 to one of the
London Evening Standard 's
best-known front-page headlines: "I Took Abu Nidal Shopping."
On
July 5 ,
1991 , the
Bank of England
closed down BCCI. Around a million investors were affected. Amongst the customers of the bank at this time was Garrards and Mappin & Webb, the jewellers responsible for maintaining the
crown jewels
and makers of the trophy for the
America's Cup .
In 1992, United States Senators
John Kerry
and
Hank Brown
co-authored a report on BCCI which was delivered to the
Committee on Foreign Relations . The BCCI scandal was one of a number of crimes and disasters that influenced thinking leading to the
Public Interest Disclosure Act
of 1998. The report found that former
Defense Secretary
Clark Clifford
and his business partner
Robert A. Altman
had been closely involved with the bank from 1978, when they were introduced to BCCI by
Bert Lance , to 1991. Clifford and Altman testified to the committee that they had never observed any suspicious activity. The federal government brought indictments against Clifford and Altman and proposed barring them from banking for life, but did not pursue Clifford due to his age and deteriorating health. Altman, however, was indicted and ultimately tried in New York by the office of District Attorney
Robert Morgenthau . Despite a failure to convict in the New York trial, Altman nevertheless agreed to be banned from banking under threat of prosecution by the Securities and Exchange Commission.
The British government also set up an independent inquiry, chaired by
Lord Justice Bingham , in 1992. Its House of Commons Paper,
Inquiry into the Supervision of the Bank of Credit and Commerce International
was published in October of that year. Following the report, the bank's liquidators launched the
Three Rivers vs. Bank of England
case, on behalf of thousands of BCCI creditors who are suing the Bank of England for its failure to properly oversee the bank. The BCCI creditors sought £850m in damages, claiming that the Bank of England was guilty of misfeance in public office. The case collapsed in November 2005, with the Bank of England seeking to re-claim legal bills. The cost of the case to the creditors could be as high as £100m. However, in 2002,
Denis Robert
and
Ernest Backes , former number three of
Clearstream , described as a "bank of banks" which practices " financial clearing ", discovered that the BCCI had continued to maintain its activities after its official closure, with "microfiches" of Clearstream's illegal unpublished accounts
BCCI
was extensively used by ISI and CIA.
CIA has been involved in drug trafficking to fund illegal operations. CIA was involved in the opium/heroin trade in Asia, The
CIA
is an
intelligence agency
of the
United States
government .
CIA is the hidden hand of the US government, for
covert operations
at the direction of the US
President . CIA have authority to conduct "subversive operations abroad,".
In the creation of the Central Intelligence Agency, several disposed
Nazi
operational agents were recruited as U.S. secret agents. BCCI AND ISI WERE CREATION/ARM OF CIA
In its earliest years the CIA, attempted to
rollback
communism all over the world. In India CIA funded the Christian churches of Kerala to create an agitation against the elected communist government of Kerala.
This CIA funding has produced many Christian congress party leaders out of the church Sunday schools of Kerala like the present union defese minister A K Antony and the former Kerala CM Oommen Chandy. CIA was successful in limiting native Communist influence in
France ,
Italy ,
South America
and in India.
In Afghanistan CIA’s
training, arming, supplying and supporting of the
Mujahedeen
initiated under Carter and greatly expanded under Reagan, as created international muslim terrorists like Osama Bin Laden and his Al Qaeda terrorist setup.
In short A K Anthony and Osama Bin Laden are the CIA products.
With relatively little funding, the CIA overthrew many governments, replacing them with right-wing, pro-American military regimes.
Six million people were killed in America's Secret Wars in many Third World countries.
In Asia and Europe, the CIA recruits politicians, writers, musicians and other personalities.
Manmohan was one such recruit.
Clark McAdams Clifford
is one of the leading players who got Manmohan in to the US agency.
Clark
was an
American
lawyer
who served Presidents
Truman ,
Kennedy ,
Johnson
and
Carter , serving as
Secretary of Defense
for Johnson.
President Johnson on
January 19 ,
1968 , appointed Clifford to succeed
Robert McNamara
as
United States Secretary of Defense .
Clifford received the
Presidential Medal of Freedom
from Johnson on the President's last day in office,
January 20 ,
1969 . In 1980, President
Jimmy Carter
appointed
Clark McAdams Clifford
as special presidential emissary to
India . Carter was given some $10 million by the BCCI for the Jimmy carter center.
Clifford served as chairman of
First American Bank shares , which grew to become the largest bank in
Washington, D.C. .
Robert Morgenthau , the
district attorney
of
Manhattan , disclosed that his office had found evidence that the parent company of Clifford's bank was secretly controlled by BCCI. Morgenthau convened a
grand jury
to determine whether Clifford and his partner,
Robert A. Altman , had deliberately misled federal regulators when the two men assured them that BCCI would have no outside control. Clifford's predicament worsened when it was disclosed he had made about $6 million in
profits
from bank stock that he bought with an
unsecured loan
from BCCI. The grand jury handed up
indictments , and the U.S.
Justice Department
opened its own investigation. Clifford's assets in New York, where he kept most of his investments, were frozen. Clifford was implicated in the unfolding
Bank of Credit and Commerce International
(BCCI) scandal. The scandal focused on the criminal conduct of the international bank and its control of financial institutions nationwide.
BCCI was found by regulators in the United States and the United Kingdom to be involved in money laundering, bribery, support of terrorism, arms trafficking, the sale of nuclear technologies, the commission and facilitation of tax evasion, smuggling, illegal immigration, and the illicit purchases of banks and real estate. The bank was found to have at least $13 billion unaccounted for. The "Report to the Committee on Foreign Relations of the United States Senate," prepared by U.S. senators
John Kerry
and
Hank Brown , noted that a key strategy of "BCCI's successful secret acquisitions of U.S. banks in the face of regulatory suspicion was its aggressive use of a series of prominent Americans," Clifford among them..
References
"The BCCI Affair", Report to the Committee on Foreign Relations, United States Senate, Senator John Kerry und Senator Hank Brown, 1992, 102nd Congress 2nd Session Senate Print 102-140 (Rapport Kerry).
A Full Service Bank. How BCCI stole billions around the world, James Ring Adams and Douglas Frantz,
Simon & Schuster Inc., New York
ISBN 0-671-72911-X
America's Secret Power: The CIA in a Democratic Society .
Johnson, Loch K.
(1991). Oxford University Press.
Bankrupt. The BCCI Fraud, Nick Kochan & Bob Whittington, 1991, Victor Gollancz Ltd., Londres,
ISBN 0-575-05279-1
Dark Alliance: The CIA, the Contras, and the Crack Cocaine Explosion .
Webb, Gary
(May 1999). Seven Stories Press. 1888363932.
Evil Money. Encounters along the Money Trail, Rachel Ehrenfeld, 1992, Harper Business,
ISBN 0-88730-560-1 ).
False Profits. The Inside Story of BCCI, the world’s most corrupt financial Empire, Peter Truell,
George Bush: The Unauthorized Biography
by
Webster G. Tarpley
&
Anton Chaitkin
Killing Hope: U.S. Military and CIA Interventions Since World War II .
Blum, William
(2003). Common Courage Press.
ISBN 1-56751-252-6 .
The BCCI Fraud .
Bankrupt:
Nick Kochan, Bob Whittington
London 1991
The Cultural Cold War: The CIA and the World of Arts and Letters .
Saunders, Frances Stonor
(1999).
New Press .
ISBN 1-56584-664-8 .
(AKA,
Who Paid the Piper?: CIA and the Cultural Cold War
1999 Granta [UK edition])
The Outlaw Bank. A wild ride into the secret heart of BCCI, Jonathan Beaty & S. C. Gwynne, 1993, Random House, New York,
ISBN 0-679-41384-7
The Politics of Heroin: CIA Complicity in the Global Drug Trade ,
Alfred W. McCoy
The Secret Team : The CIA and Its Allies in Control of the United States and the World .
Prouty, L. Fletcher
(April 1973). Prentice Hall.
ISBN 0-13-798173-2 .
Time Magazine, 29.July 1991, The world's sleaziest bank, online unter
Cover Story: The Dirtiest Bank of All
Unholy Wars. Afghanistan, America and International Terrorism, John K. Cooley, 1999, Pluto Press, Londres, Sterling (Virginie),
ISBN 0-7453-1328-0
Whiteout: The CIA, Drugs and the Press .
Cockburn, Alexander
(October 1999). Verso.
ISBN 1-8598-4258-5 .
The Immaculate Deception: The Bush Crime Family Exposed
(1991),
Inside the Company: CIA Diary .
Philip Agee .
Posted by
n.krishna
at
11:42 PM
4 comments:
Labels:
sonia gandhi manmohan singh cia isi opus dei
Tuesday, February 13, 2007
Sonia Gandhi’s son Rahul Gandhi Gang rape Sukanya
Sonia Gandhi’s son Rahul Gandhi Gang rape Sukanya
The Italian catholic christian immigrant turned Indian politician, Mrs Antonia Maino Gandhi, alias Sonia Gandhi has a son who is a member of the Indian Parliament. The son’s name is Rahul Gandhi. The Gandhi surname is not related to the
India ’s founding father Mahatma Gandhi, but a stolen surname to hide the muslim name of Sonia’s Indian father in law who was a muslim. Sonia’s husband was the late Indian prime minister Rajiv Gandhi, who was assassinated by a christian woman suicide bomber from
Sri
Lanka . Rajiv Gandhi was known as the most corrupt Prime minister of
India
and was involved in kickbacks in the defense purchases and is known as Bofors thief. Rajiv Gandhi’s father was a muslim by name Feroz Khan married the late Indian prime minister Indira Priyadarsini, after Indira converted to Islam and the couple had assumed the surname of Gandhi, to fool the illiterate public of
India , and to corner their votes. Recently this shameless family has hit the headlines in the internet, for the wrong reason of Rahul Gandhi getting involved in a gang rape in
India ’s most populous state Utter Pradesh. Sonia and her coterie were able to terrorize and gag the press in
India , but the rape incident got widespread coverage, thanks to the internet. Calling these news reports, as anti-Rahul write-ups by the christian controlled media in India, the congress party controlled by Sonia, issued notices to a post box in USA, instead of filing an FIR and if found guilty punishing the rapists gang including Rahul Gandhi.
The following shocking information is being put up in the blogs so that the victim of gang rape involving Rahul Gandhi, will receive justice and will not be killed by the goons of Sonia Gandhi. Manmohan Singh the present prime minister of
India
is a nominee of Sonia Gandhi and would stall all police and public enquiries.
It was reported that on 3rd December 2006, Rahul Gandhi was camping at Amethi along with 7 others and were drinking liquor at a V.I.P. guest house at 9 PM, and the group then penetrated the vagina of one Sukanya Devi, age 24 with their penis. Sukanya Devi is the daughter of Congress worker Balram Singh who is a staunch follower of Sonia Gandhi. Ms.Sukanya’s house address is 23-12 Medical Choke, Sanjay Gandhi Marg, Amethi, Raebareli, UP,
India . Sukanya was first forced to drink liquor before Rahul Gandhi and his 7 friends forcibly penetrated her vagina one by one. Sukanya cried for help, but her cries fell on deaf ears. Even the security personnel preferred to remain as mute spectators. Sukanya’s mother Sumitra Devi, who learnt about the whole incident immediately, went with her daughter to Police HQ in Amethi. The Police refused to book any complaint and advised her not to report it.. Sukanya Devi She went from pillar to post pleading for justice, but no one heard her pleas. Sumitra Devi gave a statement in a press conference with a very thin attendance and there she was confronted by Congressmen who physically assaulted both mother & daughter. On 27th December 2006 Sumitra Devi went to
New
Delhi
to meet Sonia Gandhi but Sonia refused to meet her. With no options left she went to Human Rights Commission who just noted down her complaint and asked her to leave. Sukanya’s father Balram Singh beat Sukanya so badly that she was forced to run away with her mother. A Group of 1000 Congressmen roamed the town on that night and kept warning people to keep their mouth shut otherwise they will kill all of them. It all happened under the nose of the police who acted helplessly. The local media who learnt about this incidence next morning enquired from the local people the details of the incident. Both people and Police refused to speak anything and evaded any question. Reporters of Small and Medium Newspapers had shown interest in this incidence but it did not carry much weight. Major newspapers had heard about this incident, but did not take it seriously.
It looks like
India
is a BANANA REPUBLIC and the leading media never dared to report the matter. The Congressmen have threatened to kill both Sumitra Devi and her daughter Sukanya if the incident is made public. Both the mother and daughter are trying to seek justice and were trying to get an appointment with the President of India. They have not got an appointment either with the President or with the Chief Justice. Both mother and daughter are now in hiding. This is a serious charge against Rahul Gandhi and Congress Party. The Reporters of IBN7, Dainik Jagran, Dainik Bhaskar, Punjab Kesari, Hindusthan Times (Hindi), Times of India & Times now, NDTV (Hindi), Aaj Tak, Star News, and Nav bharath times who were present on 4th December to cover Rahul’s Trip in Amethi were given information about the rape incident. Independent Investigative journalists have formed a group to probing authencity of the incident and if any information on this case is available the public can email it to
proberahul@yahoo.com . It is a shame that the mainstream media is under pressure from Sonia Gandhi. During BJP rule, Rahul Gandhi along with his Columbian girl friend was detained by FBI at
Logan
airport in
USA , for carrying large amount of drug dollars. Rahul Gandhi was released only after Vajpayee asked the Indian Ambassador to talk to Bush Administration. Two years back Rahul Gandhi went to Kerala with her Colombian Girl friend and stayed in Kumarakom (Taj hotel ) for a week in the same suite. Kerala police who are known for pimping for politicians stood guard for them. A Keralite has even filed a court case against Rahul Gandhi for immoral trafficking. The Rahul Gandhi incident is similar to Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M. Karunanidhi’s son Stalin’s action with a muslim girl that was hushed up..
1)Victim Ms.Sukanya is under threat from Congress goons http://intellibriefs.blogspot.com/2007/01/rahul-gandhi-involved-in-gang-rape_17.html )
2)HinduUnity.org demands Government to launch a probe
http://intellibriefs.blogspot.com/2007/02/rahul-gandhi-rape-case-hinduunityorg.html
3)Elder who helped alleged rape victim of Rahul Gandhi was beaten
in Amethi http://intellibriefs.blogspot.com/2007/02/elder-who-helped-alleged-rape-victim.html
4)_Indymedia
Scotland : RAHUL GANDHI
INVOLVED IN GANG RAPE_
http://scotland.indymedia.org/newswire/display/3659/index.php_
5)_Rahul Gandhi’s involvement in gang rape-SAAG-Forum_
http://www.saag.org/bb/view.asp?msgID=27512_
6)RAHUL GANDHI INVOLVED IN GANG RAPE http://baltimore.indymedia.org/newswire/display/14440/index.php_
7)_RAHUL GANDHI INVOLVED IN GANG
RAPE : AZ IMC_
http://arizona.indymedia.org/news/2007/01/54701.php
8)_Rahul Gandhi , Parliament Member
of
India , involved in Gang Rape : Indybay_ http://www.indybay.org/newsitems/2007/01/29/18353868.php
9)_Baltimore
Independent
Media
Center : APPEAL TO HUMAN RIGHTS _
http://baltimore.indymedia.org/newswire/display/14464/index.php_
10)_ http://melbourne.indymedia.org/uploads/rahul.pdf_ http://melbourne.indymedia.org/uploads/rahul.pdf )
11)_Rahul Gandhi , Parliament Member
of
India , involved in Gang Rape :Melbourne Indymedia_
http://melbourne.indymedia.org/news/2007/01/136867_comment.php
12) Sukanya Devi
http://blogs.sify.com/blog_display.php?blogid=1574&pid=3430
13) Did Rahul Gandhi and his 7 friends penetrate the vagina of Sukanya Devi
http://www.genebase.com/user/bharatian
14) Elder who helped alleged rape victim of Rahul Gandhi was beaten in Amethi http://www.sulekha.com/groups/postdisplay.aspx?cid=724618&forumid=756919
15) Nobody wants to comment on Rahul
http://www.earthtimes.org/articles/show/26828.html
16) Rahul Gandhi Gang rapes Sukanya Devi
http://rahulgandhirapessukanya.blogspot.com/
17) rape, murder AIDS injection by muslims, christian conversion for college admission
http://opus-dei.sulekha.com/blog/post/2007/02/stories-in-pictures.htm
18) Photos of the rapist Rahul Gandhi and the victim Sukanya Devi
http://www.flickr.com/photos/33481769@N00/?saved=1
http://intellibriefs.blogspot.com/2007/02/rahul-gandhi-rape-case-videos-aired.html
YOUTUBE VIDEOS TO WATCH RAHUL GANDHI’S GANG RAPE
Log in to
www.youtube.com
and register yourself and watch the following interesting videos.
http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9y8xi2itgUo
http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mRi47W5JxfU
http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=88AdVaP1d3o
http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=n09iuYVaE9U
http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=y9v0LNXivA8
‘OPERATION BANGLA’ - WHY WOMEN GROUPS IN
INDIA
ARE SILENT
On Feb 7th 2007 the Intelligence Bureau goons were sent by Sonia Gandhi conducted ‘OPERATION BANGLA’ in Amethi. They have detained 15 people in the Rahul Gandhi rape case. The goons in the Operation Bangla was made up of mostly Congress goons and some Intelligence staffs. A perfect example of Italian Mafiosi Sonia’s Intimidation tactics to kill the truth. Atmosphere in Amethi is grim and filled with tension. Around 80 Congress goons and Intelligence goons from
Delhi
picked about 20 persons. They claim themselves to be IB personnel. They have rounded up all the individuals who spoke on camera few days back to a
Delhi
based Journalist regarding the Rape victim Ms.Sukanya Devi . That video is available at youtube.com
Human rights commission and women’s commission are just extension of Congress party and are goons themselves as they have failed to act to help the rape victim..
PETITION TO PRESIDENT TO PROBE RAPE ALLEGATION http://www.petitiononline.com/rahulrap/petition.html
Posted by
n.krishna
at
2:14 AM
8 comments:
Labels:
gang rape by Indian Parliamentarian
Home
Subscribe to:
Posts (Atom)
Jiglu Autotag widget
Jiglu Autotag widget
Blog Archive
▼
2007
(2)
▼
October
(1)
Sonia and Manmohan Singh are
ISI CIA OPUS DEI age...
►
February
(1)