The FR2DAY top ten movies for 2011 | FR2DAY.com - The Lifestyle Magazine that covers the South of France & Monaco
custom
Home
News French
Showbiz
Video
Things to do Exhibition
Food
Movies
Music
Rendezvous
What's on
Lifestyle & Travel Action
Chill
Destination
Shopping
Style
Riviera People Talk
Property The Loft
Sales
Rentals
Hot Homes
Gay & Lesbian
Arts and Culture
Riviera Business Club Little Black Book
Riviera People
Log In
or
Sign Up
Twitter Facebook
Search
Search this site:
The FR2DAY top ten movies for 2011
BY David Stoyle FOR FR2DAY.COM Dec 28, 2011
It was a strange year for cinema. The Cannes Film Festival had several really strong contenders for best movie, and bizarrely gave its Palme d'Or to Terrence Malick's ponderous "The Tree of Life". Normally I can watch Malick until the cows come home, but this time there was a sound of lowing in my garden. Overall there were less really strong films than in the previous couple of years, but the top ten for 2011 still contains true gems.
At  Ten
I liked " The Artist ". Currently this one is receiving a lot of attention in the run-up to the Oscars. If it wins
Best Picture
this will be truly amazing: it's a French movie, mostly silent and black and white. It's a short film that nevertheless seems a bit long, and that's where the problem lies - it's a
beautiful homage
to the silent era, and a wonderful pastiche, but it just does not have enough content to get higher up my list.
At
Number Nine , I'm opting for " The Skin I Live In ", Pedro Almodovar's venture into science fiction. There's some reference to previous masterpieces of world cinema, especially Franju's " Eyes without a face ", in this tale of beauty enslaved by an obsessive and horrific dream. The film touches on some great themes -
identity ,
gender ,
family attachment . It's also got that
Almodovar
trademark of an incredibly complicated scenario that all unravels at the end. The only thing that bugged me about this one was the completely unsubtle product placement for
BMW . They nearly ruined Polanski's " Ghost Writer ", and here they are again. They must be paying loads of cash to persuade
serious directors
to let them invade the screens like this!
At
Number Eight
is
Lynne Ramsay 's " We Need to Talk about Kevin ". This one shows the childhood and adolescence of a boy who turns into a criminal. The question being asked is who is responsible? Is it the
mother's fault
because she cannot bond with him? The directing here is very
ambitious
- Ramsay shows us one character's perception: a mother who is racked by guilt. At times the i magery and camera effects
are just too much, but it is still a very fine movie, with a fine performance from
Tilda Swinton .
At
Seven ,
The King's Speech
wowed everyone back in January when it was released here in France. This is a stirring period piece about how
King George VI
was thrust into the throne by his brother's abdication, and the stammer he had to overcome. We are treated to
great perfomances , fine wide-angle lens work, and a rousing
human story .
Six
is
Take Shelter , an American movie about an apparently
deranged man
who builds a deep storm shelter in his garden.
Michael Shannon
is excellent in these flakey roles, and here he has a superb foil in
Jessica Chastain , playing his long-suffering wife. Is it an allegory of the 2008 crash? Or human isolation? In any case this is one of the most moving films of 2011.
In at
Number Five
is
Midnight in Paris , Woody Allen's time-travel piece about nostalgia for the golden age in
Paris . And being Woody, that leads to questions like, " What age was really golden "? There are humourous literary in-jokes and characterisations of figures like
F. Scott Fitzgerald . And of course the movie works in the standard Allen plot of a quiet intellectual with a
shy nature
who finally gets the girl. This movie has made more money than any other in Woody Allen's career, and while it probably doesn't have the inspired genius of " Manhattan ", it certainly is one of his best.
Number Four :
The Kid with a Bike , by the
Dardenne brothers , was competing in
Cannes , and was a better movie than the winner. But then again, these two Belgians have already won the
Palme
twice, so presumably it gets harder for them to have it once more. The Dardennes stick to a very simple story about one child,
his father's rejection , and a friendly lady who adopts him. Unusually for the Dardennes this is an
optimistic tale .
Made In Dagenham
is in the
top three
for 2011 because it is so authentic, evocative and inspirational.
Ken Loach
himself could not have done better in showing people becoming conscious of their rights and fighting for them, at first awkwardly and hesitantly, and eventually with pride and confidence. Look out for a great performance by
Miranda Richardson
playing
Barbara Castle .
At
number two ,
Once upon a time in Anatolia , a Turkish movie by
Nuri Bilge Ceylan , was another one shown at Cannes. It's quite a long film, and some will find it slow, but the perfect
control of camera ,
dialogues , and
plot , make this a truly great look at how people interact.
And so to the best film of 2011: Lars von Trier's Melancholia. His previous film was dreadful and he also managed to get himself thrown out of Cannes for a
careless and awkward joke about Nazis . And yet this movie is a thing of near perfect beauty. Von Trier unpeels the nature of depression in a forensic manner. He stuffs the screen with scenes from renaissance representations of melancholy, and he uses a giant planet headed towards earth as a metaphor that could seem unsubtle but somehow works.
Ring in 2012 in fine style with the International Club of the Riviera
As always the International Club of the Riviera ends the year with the annual New Years Eve Charity Ball.
READ MORE
Work off those Christmas calories with the Prom Classic 2012 in Nice
What better way to purge those festive over-indulgences by lining out on the Promenade des Anglais on the ... >>
READ MORE
Share PRINT
Email
Comment
RECENT IN MOVIES
David Stoyle's top ten movies of 2013 What a year! This kind of summary is always fun to write, and often sparks debate, but 2013 was a great year
>> Nine movies you can’t miss this Fall With so many films released each week, you might be worried you’ll miss the top movies over the coming
>> Woody Allen in Antibes to film and play jazz In Antibes to film his latest movie, Woody Allen gave a jazz concert last night at the Anthea Theatre in
>> “Rue des Cités” brings the roughest Paris suburbs to Cannes One of the best surprises at this year's Film Festival has been a new movie that throws new light on the
>> Bling bling bang bang - that's Cannes! You didn’t think Cannes was about Movies did you?
There are the celebrities, the glamour, the
>> All hail to Abraham Lincoln Steven Spielberg’s new movie, “Lincoln”, is an adoring vision of the US President. It
>>
Let's swap Depardieu and Bardot for Pussy Riot! First Gerard Depardieu and now Brigitte Bardot! Who could have predicted that prominent public figures would
>> Bourne Again! The Bourne trilogy now becomes a foursome – and it could be that this is one too many! Without the
>> The Sapphires One of the surprise hits at this year’s Cannes Film Festival was Australian music biopic “The
>> NEXT 9
About Us
Contact us
Advertise
Employment
Privacy Policy
Terms of use
SUBSCRIBE TO NEWSLETTER
LOGIN
RSS
Fine and Country FP
also visit our sister site
la2day.com
- the lifestyle magazine that covers Los Angeles
FR2DAY.COM (including all appearances thereof) and the "FR2DAY.COM" design and
logo are registered Trade Marks of FR2DAY INC.
all content Copyright FR2DAY INC.
FR2DAY.COM IS DEVELOPED BY
ONLINE CITY MEDIA INC.
AND BUILT BY
CMS WEBSITE SERVICES LLC