Manhattan (film) - Wikiquote
Manhattan (film)
From Wikiquote
Jump to:					 navigation , 					 search
Manhattan
is
1979 film
about a divorced New Yorker currently dating a high-schooler who brings himself to look for love in the mistress of his best friend instead.
Directed by
Woody Allen . Written by Woody Allen and
Marshall Brickman .
Contents
1
Isaac "Ike" Davis
2
Yale Pollack
3
Tracy
4
Dialogue
5
Cast
6
External links
Isaac "Ike" Davis [ edit ]
Talent is luck. The important thing in life is courage.
[voiceover]
"Chapter One. He adored
New York City . He idol­ized it all out of proportion." Uh, no, make that: "He-he . . . romanticized it all out of proportion." Yeah. To him, no matter what the season was, this was still a town that existed in black-and-white and pulsated to the great tunes of
George Gershwin ." Uh, no let me start this over. "Chapter One. He was too romantic about
Manhattan
as he was about everything else. He thrived on the hustle bustle of the crowds and the traffic. To him, New York meant beautiful women and street-smart guys who seemed to know all the angles." Nah, corny, too corny for a man of my taste
[He clears his throat.]
Let me - let me try and make it more profound. "Chapter One. He adored New York City. To him, it was a metaphor for the decay of contemporary culture. The same lack of individual integrity that cause so many people to take the easy way out was rapidly turning the town of his dreams in-" No, it's gonna be too preachy. I mean, you know, let's face it, I wanna sell some books here. "Chapter One. He adored New York City, although to him, it was a metaphor for the decay of contemporary culture. How hard it was to exist in a society desensitized by drugs, loud music, televi­sion, crime, garbage." Too angry. I don't wanna be angry. "Chapter One. He was as tough and romantic as the city he loved. Behind his black-rimmed glasses was the coiled sexual power of a jungle cat." I love this. "New York was his town, and it always would be."
(Offscreen)
An idea for a short story about um people in Manhattan who uh are constantly creating these real, uh, unnecessary, neurotic problems for themselves 'cause it keeps them from dealing with more unsolvable, terrifying problems about, uh, the universe.
(The camera pulls back, revealing Ike, sprawled out on his couch, holding the recorder's microphone to his mouth. He continues to talk, fiddling with the microphone's wire as he thinks out loud.)
(Into the microphone, sighing)
Um, tsch-it's, uh . . . well, it has to be optimistic. Well, alright, why is life worth living? That's a very good question.
(Sighing)
Um.
(Clearing his throat, then sighing again)
Well, there are certain things I-I guess that make it worthwhile.
(Sighing)
Uh, like what?
(Sighing again and scratching his neck)
Okay. Um, for me . . .
(Sighing)
uh, ooh, I would say . . . what,
Groucho Marx , to name one thing . . . uh, ummmm, and
(Sighing)
Willie Mays
and um, the
second movement of the Jupiter Symphony , and ummmm...
(Exhaling)
Louie Armstrong 's recording of " Potato Head Blues " . . .
(Sighing)
umm,
Swedish movies , naturally . . .
Sentimental Education
by
Flaubert
. . . uh,
Marlon Brando ,
Frank Sinatra
. . .
(Sighing)
ummm, those incredible
apples and pears
by
Cézanne
. . .
(Sighing)
uh, the crabs at
Sam Wo 's . . . uh, Tracy's face.
This is so antiseptic. It's empty. Why do you think this is funny? You're going by audience reaction? This is an audience that's raised on television, their standards have been systematically lowered over the years. These guys sit in front of their sets and the gamma rays eat the white cells of their brains out!
You rely too much on the brain. The brain is the most overrated organ.
[to Yale and Emily Pollack and Tracy]
Talent is luck. The important thing in life is courage.
[to Yale Pollack] You shouldn't ask me for advice. When it comes to relationships with women, I'm the winner of the August Strindberg Award.
[to Tracy] I think that people should mate for life, like pigeons or Catholics.
I can't express anger. That's my problem. I internalize everything. I just grow a tumor instead.
She's 17. I'm 42, and she's 17. I'm older than her father, can you believe that? I'm dating a girl, wherein, I can beat up her father.
[to Mary Wilke] You know a lot of geniuses, y'know. You should meet some stupid people once in a while, y'know, you could learn something.
[to Mary Wilke] I had a mad impulse to throw you down on the lunar surface and commit interstellar perversion.
[to Yale Pollack] What are you telling me, that you're, you're, you're gonna leave Emily, is this true? And, and run away with the, the, the winner of the Zelda Fitzgerald emotional maturity award?
Yale Pollack [ edit ]
[to Isaac Davis]
It's just gossip, you know. Gossip is the new
pornography .
Tracy [ edit ]
[to Isaac Davis]
Not everybody gets corrupted. You've got to have faith in people.
Dialogue [ edit ]
Female Party Guest : I finally had an orgasm, and my doctor told me it was the wrong kind.
Isaac : Did you have the wrong kind? Really? I've never had the wrong kind, ever. My worst one was right on the money.
Isaac : Has anybody read that Nazis are gonna march in New Jersey? Ya know? I read it in the newspaper. We should go down there, get some guys together, ya know, get some bricks and baseball bats, and really explain things to 'em.
Party Guest : There was this devastating satirical piece on that on the op-ed page of the Times, just devastating.
Isaac : Whoa, whoa. A satirical piece in the Times is one thing, but bricks and baseball bats really gets right to the point of it.
Party Guest Helen : Oh, but really biting satire is always better than physical force.
Isaac : No, physical force is always better with Nazis.
Mary : You don't need a male. Two mothers are absolutely fine.
Isaac : Really? Because I always feel very few people survive one mother.
Mary : I guess I should straighten my life out, huh? I mean, Donnie my analyst is always telling me---
Isaac : You call your analyst Donnie?
Mary : Yeah, I call him Donnie.
Isaac : Donnie, your analyst? I call mine Dr. Chomsky, you know? Either that or he hits me with a ruler.
Mary : Don't psychoanalyze me. I pay a doctor for that.
Isaac : Hey, you call that guy that you talk to a doctor? I mean, you don't get suspicious when your analyst calls you at home at three in the morning and weeps into the telephone?
Mary : Alright, so he's unorthodox. He's a highly qualified doctor.
Isaac : He done a great job on you, you know? Your self-esteem is a notch below
Kafka .
Isaac : What kind of dog do you have?
Mary : The worst. It's a dachshund. You know, it's a penis substitute for me.
Isaac : I would've thought then in your case it would've been a Great Dane.
Mary : I'm honest, what do you want? I say what's on my mind and if you can't take it, well then fuck off!
Isaac : And I like the way you express yourself too, you know? It's pithy yet degenerate. You get many dates?
Yale : You are so self-righteous, you know. I mean we're just people. We're just human beings, you know? You think you're God.
Isaac : I . . . I gotta model myself after someone.
Cast [ edit ]
Woody Allen
- Isaac Davis
Diane Keaton
- Mary Wilke
Michael Murphy
- Yale Pollack
Mariel Hemingway
- Tracy
Meryl Streep
- Jill Davis
Anne Byrne - Emily Pollack
Wallace Shawn
- Jeremiah
Karen Ludwig - Connie
Charles Levin ,
Karen Allen , and
David Rasche
as Television actors
Mark Linn-Baker
and
Frances Conroy
as Shakespearean actors
External links [ edit ]
Manhattan
quotes at the
Internet Movie Database
Wikipedia
has an article about:
Manhattan (film)
Retrieved from " https://en.wikiquote.org/w/index.php?title=Manhattan_(film)&oldid=1771497 "
Categories :
1979 films Romantic comedy films Woody Allen films
Navigation menu
Personal tools
Create account Log in
Namespaces
Page
Discussion
Variants
Views
Read
Edit
View history
More
Search
Navigation
Main Page Community portal Village pump Recent changes Random page Help Donate Contact Wikiquote
Wikiquote links
People Literary works Proverbs Films TV shows Themes Categories
Print/export
Create a book Download as PDF Printable version
Tools
What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page
In other languages
Español فارسی Italiano Polski Română Русский
Edit links
This page was last modified on 10 August 2014, at 05:43.
Text is available under the
Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License ; additional terms may apply.
By using this site, you agree to the
Terms of Use
and
Privacy Policy.
Privacy policy
About Wikiquote
Disclaimers
Developers
Mobile view