Fraters Libertas
"As a taxpayer, I don't want to pay for a roof so a family from Fargo
can be guaranteed to see a game."
- Chad Doughty
Aboot
Reader's Rep
Home
RSS Feed
- ARCHIVES -
March 2002
April 2002
May 2002
June 2002
July 2002
August 2002
September 2002
October 2002
November 2002
December 2002
January 2003
February 2003
March 2003
April 2003
May 2003
June 2003
July 2003
August 2003
September 2003
October 2003
November 2003
December 2003
January 2004
February 2004
March 2004
April 2004
May 2004
June 2004
July 2004
August 2004
September 2004
October 2004
November 2004
December 2004
January 2005
February 2005
March 2005
April 2005
May 2005
June 2005
July 2005
August 2005
September 2005
October 2005
November 2005
December 2005
January 2006
February 2006
March 2006
April 2006
May 2006
June 2006
July 2006
August 2006
September 2006
October 2006
November 2006
December 2006
January 2007
February 2007
March 2007
April 2007
May 2007
June 2007
July 2007
August 2007
September 2007
October 2007
November 2007
December 2007
January 2008
February 2008
March 2008
April 2008
May 2008
June 2008
July 2008
August 2008
September 2008
October 2008
November 2008
December 2008
January 2009
February 2009
March 2009
April 2009
May 2009
June 2009
July 2009
August 2009
September 2009
October 2009
November 2009
December 2009
January 2010
February 2010
March 2010
April 2010
Check back here often for commentary and
announcements .
POSTS BY TOPIC
2010 Election
Baseball
Beer
Beer of the Week
Books
Business
Culture
Drinking
Economics
Football
Global Warming
Health Care
Hockey (02-05)
Hockey (06-07)
Hockey (08-09)
Media-Local (02-04)
Media-Local (05-07)
Media-Local (08-09)
Media National (02-06)
Media National (07-09)
Media National (10-11)
Movies
Music
NARN (04-05)
NARN (06-07)
NARN (08-09)
NARN (10-11)
Politics-Local (02-03)
Politics-Local (04-05)
Politics-Local (06-07)
Politics-Local (08-09)
Politics-National (02-04)
Politics-National (05-07)
Politics-National (08-10)
Ralphie
Religion
Separated At Birth?
Television
Terrorism
Travel
Amazon.com Widgets
CHAD THE ELDER:
rightwinger23 at hotmail.com
Twitter
SAINT PAUL:
saintp at excite.com
Twitter
JB DOUBTLESS:
abunodisceomnes at hotmail.com
ATOMIZER:
atomizer77 at yahoo.com
Twitter
SISYPHUS:
Twitter
NIHILIST IN GOLF PANTS:
NihilistPaul at yahoo.com
Twitter
THE CRAZY UKE:
karkoc5 at earthlink.net
FEATURES
Beer Ratings
Recommended Reading
Fraters At The Fair
Hugh Hugs A Tree
Separated At Birth?
Travels With Ralphie
NORTHERN ALLIANCE
Lileks
Power Line
SCSU Scholars
Shot in the Dark
THE EMPIRE
Hugh Hewitt
Radio Blogger
REGIONAL AUTHORITY
True North
ATOMIZER's A-LIST
Astronomy Picture Of The Day
IowaHawk
Peterman's Eye
JB's SACK SITES
Fred On Everything
Hillbilly Swing Kings
Pair O' Dice
Philokalia Republic
Vox Day
SAINT PAUL'S SHOW STOPPERS
Thomas P.M. Barnett
Beltway Confidential
Big Hollywood
Aaron Gleeman
Roger Ebert
The Enterprise Blog
ELDER's ELITE
Cranky Conservative
Hennepin County Taxpayer Watchdog
Infinite Monkeys
Nihilist In Golf Pants
Riff Trax Blog
HIGHER CALLING
Argument of the Month
Father Corapi
First Things
Moral Accountability
Public Discourse
Roman Catholic Blog
Strange Herring
ZENIT
THE GOOD EARTH
Global Climate Scam
Pacific Research Institute
Planet Gore
THE USUAL SUSPECTS
Hot Air
InstaPundit
NRO's The Corner
RealClearPolitics
Self-Reliance
Standpoint
IN AGGREGATE
Righty Blogs
BlogNetNews MN
CENTER OF GRAVITY
Armed Forces Journal
Belmont Club
CENTCOM
D.O.D. Heroes
Victor Davis Hanson
Michael Yon
Mark Steyn
INVISIBLE AIRWAVES
Net Radio Network
Michael Medved
Dennis Prager
Relevant Radio
POTABLE
Dan's Wine Blog
Great Brewers
MN Beer
Modern Drunkard
Whisky.com
Feedjit Live Blog Stats
Monday, November 02, 2009
Advice For A Falltime Homeowner
I had a war on my hands this weekend. Sunday I made a massive assault on the yard.
Like FDR, I am forced to wage a two-front war.
And again like FDR, I set priorities.
The front yard is the equivalent of Nazi Germany with a massive Silver Maple, two Choke Cherries and a Japanese Elm raining a blitzkrieg of leaves.
Additionally, my neighbor's ancient Box Elder is the equivalent of Italy, an ugly and worthless player that adds significant effort for me.
Two weeks ago I stemmed the tide with a North Africa-like campaign.
Yesterday was D-Day.
This is the end of the beginning: only the Japanese Elm has munitions to mount a further attack and its leafy weaponry is small caliber. The back yard, like the Pacific theater, requires more patience.
Hundreds kamikaze apples from two Apple trees bombarded my yard.
My Red Maple dumped ¾ of its munitions on yard and deck.
Two small Box Elders and several bushes retain much of there ammo, while the Apple trees hold plenty of Apples and most of their leaves in reserve.
Constrained by daylight and a desire to see the Vikes beat the Packers, I had to determine what was expendable.
Cleanup on my deck, mulch and rock gardens will be fought another day.
The backyard enemy contains significant munitions, so it didn?t make sense to attack the massive piles of leaves blown into the chain link front. Casualties were high yesterday.
Over 30 bags, each containing 20 gallons of leaves were delivered to a grave in the landfill yesterday.
The total for the year is approximately 50 bags.
My intelligence team suggests that only an atomic bomb can prevent me from losing another 20 bags this fall.
Unfortunately, rather than mixing a
Manhattan
project, I spent the evening working on a
piece
&
Summit . Labels:
Domestic Tranquility
Posted by Nihilist in Golf Pants-- Link
Tuesday, July 14, 2009
Veining The Main Drain
[Yesterday evening] 5:10pm (all times approximate) Arrive home from work to grab coupon which guy at pizza store assured my wife I had to have when she called in order.
5:15pm Arrive at pizza store to pick up pie. No one asks for coupon.
5:20pm Arrive home. Wolf down a couple of pieces before having to take eldest boy to skating lesson.
5:30pm Go downstairs to get boy's skates and helmet and discover that the main drain is blocked and has backed up into laundry room and office/spare bedroom (where the cleanout is located). Curse silently.
5:35pm Go back upstairs to inform wife and hustle the boy out the door to skate. 6:45pm Arrive home from skating lesson. Do some quick cleanup and damage assessment in basement. 7:30pm Participate in conference call for work.
8:00pm Head back down to basement to start situational assessment/cleanup in earnest. Wish I had some sort of head-to-toe hazmat gear to wear instead of flip flops and garden gloves.
9:30pm After picking up carpet pieces and rugs, cleaning up waste, and conducting a variety of tests to determine extent of drain cloggage, reach the conclusion that we're looking at a pretty screwed up situation far beyond my ability to correct. Knowing that I have a critical 7am meeting at work the next day only serves to add to my angst.
9:35pm Remember that I know a guy who specializes in such situation who just happens to live nearby.
9:36pm Ring up
Augie's Drain Cleaning
expecting to leave a message and hopefully be able to get the situation resolved early the next day. Am surprised when John the owner answers the phone. Am even more surprised when after a preliminary reintroduction exchange, he says that he'll be over shortly.
9:40pm-10:05pm Try to make sure that the path is clear for John to do his work and even find myself picking up and straightening out the living room. Wouldn't want to think we have a messy house or anything. Pass the rest of the time by watching the conclusion of the staggeringly dull Home Run Derby. Wonder why on earth anyone would want to sit through the whole thing in person. The kids shagging balls in the outfield look like they're having the most fun.
10:06pm John arrives. After some further banter, he gets down to business. The root of the problem is quickly identified in the line just a short run from the house. After its removed, he clears the rest of the line to the street.
10:40pm John packs up his equipment and presents the bill. Much less than I expected especially considering the timing of the service.
10:45pm-11:05pm John helps enlighten me on the ways of sewers, in particular some potential problems to be on guard for with ours (damn silver maples). Then, he brings me up to speed on the political situation in the
Valley , an area that he has much experience in.
11:06pm John leaves and I do some further clean up. Crack a beer to unwind and drift off to slumber close to the midnight hour. Although my sleep is short it is sound knowing that I'll have full use of the important facilities when I wake for work the next day. Labels:
Domestic Tranquility
Posted by Chad-- Link
Thursday, April 16, 2009
Living In A Lonely World
My wife--herself the product of a small town--now realizes that it's not as much a matter of the size of your municipality as it is a matter of the size of your neighbor's goodwill:
Growing up in a small town, I didn't see much of the charm a small town could bring.
My thoughts on small towns had changed some as I grew older, but accelerated when storms went through my hometown in 1998.
My parents home as well as everyone in their neighborhood had several large branches and trees down.
My husband and I went out to help my parents along with husband's father and brother.
It was truly amazing to see. We saw people coming in from several other towns volunteering to help. Neighbors were helping neighbors, etc.
Across the street, a neighbor of theirs had a huge tree down in their front yard, it was cleaned up by the time we left that day. My parents damage was basically cleaned up as well, thanks to the private citizens from their town and neighboring small towns.
When my husband and I left to go back home, we noted that in the suburbs of Minneapolis (Minnetonka, specifically) their were still trees blocking the streets.
We both marveled at the fact that my hometown was well on its way of being cleaned up a day after the storm while the suburbs still seemed to be untouched. In January 2009 I received a call from my Dad that their basement was full of sewage water.
They found out the same day that two other homes had sewage water in their basement.
When my parents contacted their city, they were informed that the city did flush the sewage system recently.
It was found out a couple months later that while the pipes could handle about 375 gallons per minute, they were flushing 500 gallons per minute.
Based on this information, it was clearly the fault of the city that the sewage water was in their basement. It is now April 15th, and their basement is still unusable.
The clean up of the basement was done within 24 hours of the incident only because several calls had been made to the city and to their insurance agent, who happens to be the city's insurance agent as well (which, I think, does not help their case).
However, many of their belongings are in storage, the basement bathroom is unusable, carpet is all ripped up, etc.
The reason for the delay: who is going to pay?
My parents did receive a check from their homeowners policy, however that does not cover the clean up and repair the damage to the house itself.
It was our belief that even after figuring depreciation, they would not have any out of pocket for the clean up, replacing flooring, painting needed, and some wood work that needed to be done. Now, they are told that they will have to pay $500-$1,00 out of their pocket.
My parents have caved, they are tired of the fight, and so they will pay. I am unsure when they will get their house back in order. They have lived in the same town for over 50 years, they had 5 children, my Dad was a volunteer fire fighter, member of the American Legion, and had owned a business in that small town for several years.
My Mom served on the city council and still volunteers for the city. They are both now in their mid-seventies
But apparently--based on the way their small town officials are treating them--none of that matters now.
Their town is Norwood Young America, MN. I know the two situations are not the same, but they made me rethink the idea of the charm of small towns.
It's the people that make the small town, not the actual city itself.
There is loyalty for your neighbor, not loyalty for the town.
I think I will stick with the Minneapolis suburb that I now call home.
Labels:
Domestic Tranquility
Posted by Chad-- Link
Tuesday, September 23, 2008
Just The Fax, Ma'am
You may recall that at the end of May we had a bit of a hailstorm at the
ol' homestead . Nothing serious, although we did have some cosmetic damage to the back of the house and the garage doors.
We had an insurance adjuster come out in late July, provide an estimate of the repair costs, and cut us a check. Unfortunately, the amount he allotted to repaint the back of the house and replace the garage doors fell short of what it actually will cost to have the work done here. He said he was using a formula based on national costs, but it seemed to based more on what said work would cost in Brownsville, Texas. In 1958.
Anyway, in order to get the insurance company to cough up some extra green, we had to get three bids from local contractors to show what the true market price was. One would expect that in our current calamitous economic conditions, there would no problem finding someone looking for an honest day's work.
More than a month, and at least fifteen different contractors contacted later, we finally were able to get a third painter to show up and give us a bid. Times may be tough, but apparently painters are still plenty busy.
Finally, with all my ducks now in a row, I called in the insurance company this morning to see how to proceed next. I explained the situation and was told that I would need to speak with an "expert" adjuster. Since they were all busy at the time, they took my number and said one of these "experts" would call at the soonest opportunity.
At 5:30pm, while out on a walk with the kids, I received a call back. Again I explained my circumstances and was told that it could be resolved relatively easily. All I had to do was fax the bids in to their office.
Fax? Who faxes anymore? I asked if I could e-mail the docs instead. No, we don't accept e-mails. Why? Because when we get a fax we scan the documents and they become part of the "file."
I smiled. Having previously scanned the bids in preparation for the call, I now saw an easy solution in the offing. "What kind of file format do you use when you scan the documents?", I asked confidently.
"I don't know, I'm not much of technical person," was the reply.
Glad I'm talking to any expert. I explained that I already had the docs scanned and could easily send them in via e-mail.
Sorry, we don't accept e-mails. If you want, you can go to your agent's office and use their fax machine.
Go the my agent's office? Yeah, that's not much of a hassle. Why don't I just get on a plane and fly them down to Florida personally? Sigh. Who faxes anymore? Labels:
Domestic Tranquility
Posted by Chad-- Link
Sunday, June 01, 2008
Hail Yeah
After running into a bit of hail on Friday afternoon down in Rochester, I returned home on Saturday to go through another, more
intense bout yesterday evening. Fortunately, my car sustained no damage in either incident and our house was likewise spared last night.
The hail in our area was described as "golf ball sized." I would say what we had in our yard was more "ping-pong ball sized." Judge for yourself:
We were out for a walk with the kids when the storm rolled in and made it home about ten minutes before the hail began its beat down. We had a nice view of the proceedings from the safety of our basement and it was fun to watch the hail bounce around the backyard as if God was popping up some corn. What won't be nearly as fun is cleaning up the leaves and sticks that now litter our property and the shredded leaves that are plastered on the side of the house. SP ADDS: We got hit with the hail in the east metro too.
Here's a shot of my backyard: Looks like I'll be cleaning up leaves and twigs myself for the next few days! Labels:
Domestic Tranquility
Posted by Chad-- Link
Friday, May 02, 2008
Got Kind of Tired Packing and Unpacking
After a hectic and exhausting week, we're on the last downhill of the moving roller coaster. Except for a few remaining heavy items that will be moved tomorrow (lift with your back not your legs Saint Paul), one POD is empty. The other mostly contains small boxes (diapers--$$$) of less critical items. By Monday, both PODS will be gone from our driveway and everything will be unloaded. Not put away mind you, but unloaded.
We spent a day without the internet or television (still having flashbacks), before the cable guy arrived on Wednesday and wired us up. Yes, the cable guy. After much debate and deliberation, we elected to remain with Comcast.
The primary factor was concern about the DSL internet speed. Such speed is all relative of course. Back in the days of dial up, you thought nothing of waiting while web pages loaded. Now, if one doesn't appear within three seconds of my mouse click, I get agitated. DSL might be just a bit slower than cable, but I didn't think I would be able to handle any backsliding in this area.
And I must say that my relocation experiences with Comcast have been quite good so far. The customer service rep I spoke with to set up the new service was friendly, informative, and thorough. The installer showed up ten minutes into his two hour window and was also friendly and accommodating of my questions and requests. It was hard to believe I was dealing with a cable company at all. Having just said that, I'm probably setting myself up for the mother of all customer support nightmares, but so far so good.
The new neighbors have been very friendly and I'm discovered a local liquor store with an excellent selection of beer, which along with pizza is a staple of moving. Even better, it's open until 10pm on weeknights. Local readers will appreciate the joy I felt upon realizing that I was freed from the tyranny of the 8pm close. Welcome to the neighborhood. Labels:
Domestic Tranquility
Posted by Chad-- Link
Tuesday, April 29, 2008
Movin' On Up
The long awaited day of moving has finally arrived. We have one closing at 10am, the other at noon, and then we're clear to move into our new home. And begin the months and months of unpacking.
After having our house on the market for close to nine months, it's a great feeling to be moving forward again. It felt as if our life was on hold and the showings, open houses, and raised and dashed hopes made for a time of anxious drudgery. To finally be moving is liberating.
The worst part of the move is not the big things, although we did have some aggravations during various negotiations. It's the little things, the thousands of details that need to be worked out to make it happen. The forms that need to be signed. The data that needs to be supplied. The services that have to be scheduled. If you only had to do each once, it wouldn't be that bad. But it's usually the case where you provide A, they ask for B. You provide B, then they need C and on and on. The devil is in the details and during a move, he is always lurking nearby.
Instead of renting a truck and Shanghaiing friends and family to help us move, we elected to go with a couple of
PODS
portable storage containers. That way we avoided the panicked rush to try to get everything loaded and unloaded in one day. And with a couple of young kids, it's definitely a better way to go. Our PODS experience so far has been good, the only caveat I would provide to potential PODS users is that prices do change and change rapidly.
One eye-opening revelation from the process of packing up is how much we spend on diapers. When we decided that we were going to put our house on the market, my wife stated saving diaper boxes. As I brought diaper box after diaper box after diaper box out to the POD, I saw the dollar signs flashing before my eyes. Frankly, I don't even want to know much the total damage has been. All I know is that potty training has taken on an added sense of urgency.
We lived in our house for almost nine years and one of my first acts upon moving in was to find a bar for the basement. I ended up locating one for sale in a community newspaper. It was built by a shop teacher in Bloomington and while it wasn't the most stylish set up it was extremely solid and although not of immense stature, it was substantially built. Over the years, I enjoyed many a drink behind it and for the price I paid, it was perhaps the best investment I ever made.
It's still in excellent condition, but it will no longer be needed in the new home. I've decided that I really don't need a basement bar anymore.
Yeah, right.
This
is why it will not be accompanying us on the move. My dreams of a built-in basement bar are going to be realized. We looked at a lot of homes during the last nine months and since we were looking at a lot of ramblers built in the Fifties and Sixties, a number had such a feature. There's actually a fascinating sociological story waiting to be told on the history, customs, artifacts, and traditions of the post-World War II basement bar phenomenon. I've kicked around the idea of putting something together on that subject for years and I think I will finally post some great pics I have of my uncle's bar soon.
Anyway, I can't wait until later today when the breaking in of the new bar begins. The hassles and headaches of moving will have been a small price to pay.
By the way, if you're interested in making your own move (it's a great time to buy), let me refer you to a couple of guys:
I met
Tom Torkelson
playing hockey years ago and he's helped us purchase two homes and sell one. He's got a low-key, straight-shooting approach to real estate that helps keep you sane and balanced even in the most unstable of markets.
A couple of years ago, when I initially told my wife that the "Crazy Uke" was going to help us with a refi/home equity deal, the idea was met with a greater than usual degree of skepticism. Now, after
Andriy
has once again helped us get the right mortgage for our new home (as he did for Saint Paul and his wife as well), there isn't much doubt in our minds that he is one of the finest predatory lenders (just ignore the dorsal fin) in the Twin Cities. Labels:
Domestic Tranquility
Posted by Chad-- Link
Monday, April 28, 2008
Never Again
The only way I managed to get through a weekend spent packing and stacking in snowy thirty degree late-April in Minnesota weather was to repeat a simple three word mantra over and over:
"Never moving again. Never moving again. Never moving again."
Well, that chant and generous portions of Ibuprofen, beer, and whisky. Labels:
Domestic Tranquility
Posted by Chad-- Link
Thursday, April 24, 2008
Satellite Of Love?
The cable versus satellite debate continues.
Tim from Colorado responds to concerns about the reception issues with the dish:
I just read your
follow up post
about SatTV. I don't know what the readers were doing wrong, but I've never had wind knock out my service, and on our first house I bought and installed all of our equipment myself. We get our share of wind too; we'll have many days in the spring and fall where winds approach 70 mph. I had a grill and a propane smoker blow off our deck one day. But I still had TV service. The only way the wind could effect your reception is if your dish mount were not tight enough. And even at that, aligning a dish is not difficult provided you have relatively good access to it. With a compass and internet access you can determine the proper compass heading for your dish. The website will also tell you the approximate angle from the horizon, and the mount has a small protractor etched on the side. The box typically will have a screen with a signal strength meter. After setting the approximate heading and elevation on the dish, with you on a ladder with a cell phone and your buddy on his cell in the family room watching the TV screen, you could get the dish lined up in a few seconds.
Then you just take out your sexton and astronomy charts, shoot a couple of azimuths and you're set. Easy.
When I hear the cable company pitch that their system is better because weather affects SatTV, I say pish. I lose service twice, maybe three times a year, and only for as long as it takes me to go outside and brush off the dish. And the other readers are right: hockey in HD makes you wonder why you never lost your eyesight watching it on conventional TV.
Forget about hockey in HD, I want my "Shark Swarm" in full HD glory.
Justin says that if you have reception problems, it means you're gonna need a bigger dish:
I saw the list of people who generally liked Satellite but were not fans of the fading due to winds and bad weather. One suggestion if you'd like to go this route: get a bigger dish. Finding a dish that is about 30" in size will seriously reduce rain/snow fade in comparison to those 18-24 inch dishes that companies give you. Yes, it's bigger and possibly an eyesore for some. However, taking a little bit to install on your own so you don't have to check the forecast before you watch a game is well worth the hassle. You can find them for about $50 or cheaper at some local satellite stores or online.
It would tempting to go all out and get a friggin' huge dish that makes your house look like an NSA listening post just to keep the neighbors wondering what you're
really
up to. Not sure if the wife would be real crazy about it though.
Rex advises staying old school:
I'm a cable bigot, an early adopter from 1978. There was only HBO and a handful of channels. No CNN. No ESPN. No hockey. No MTV. It was cool! I have nothing against satellite but once you're used to 10+ mbps download internet speeds, DSL seems out of the question. Plus, we like On Demand.
The DSL versus cable internet speed factor is one that weighs heavily in my considerations.
JB says that no matter what, DVR is a must:
You have to get DVR. It's the best Jerry, the best. I go through movie channels and see what's on 3-4 days at a time in like 10 minutes. I "tape" anything that looks remotely interesting and then watch it at my convenience.
That sounds great in theory, but the last thing I need right now is another reason not to get enough sleep. Labels:
Domestic Tranquility
Posted by Chad-- Link
Tuesday, April 22, 2008
Table The Cable And Wish On A Dish?
Whenever you have a big decision to make you always hope that gathering as much information as possible on the matter will make the proper course of action clear. Alas, in reality more information does not usually mean more clarity, as has been most recently demonstrated by the response to my
request
for advice on whether to stick with cable or switch to a satellite dish when we move next month. Tim from Colorado starts us off with a common complaint:
You asked about satellite TV the other day; here's my two cents. I hate cable TV companies. Eleven years ago, we moved into a brand new house. I called the cable TV company for service and they said they wouldn't be able to get to me for three to four weeks, and that they would put my name on a waiting list and call me when it was my turn.
Eleven years have gone by and I still have never heard from anybody at Comcast. We have DirecTV. Our monthly bill is $112. We have two HDTV's (one with DVR), one standard TV with DVR, and one standard TV with just a satellite box. Our service package is the middle package, with local channels (an extra $5 per month). When we moved into our new home in December, we bundled our phone service with our DirecTV and our internet package (DSL). I would tell you what we pay, but I'm not sure as my wife handles bills most of the time, and because she works out of our house, we don't have a standard phone package anyway (home line, business line, and dedicated fax line). When we moved here we had a little bit of trouble with the different DirecTV technicians getting us hooked up. I think I regaled you with my story back in January. After five appointments and three service calls, we finally got service. Like any thing else, the company service is only as good as the guy providing it. If you get a dish service, make sure they put it in a spot that you can easily access it with a ladder and broom; do not let them stick the dish on the peak of your roof. We get a couple wet-sticky snowstorms every year, and the wet-sticky snow on the dish wipes out our reception; a quick touch of the broom brings it back.
Paul, another Colorado resident, echoes that view:
We have a Direct TV/Qwest package that we like a lot. The payment sounds in the ballpark you are paying. Plus it's the only way to get NFL Sunday Ticket, worth every penny for a fantasy football freak.
Fantasy hockey freak
Foot
adds his two cents:
I've had Dish network since we moved to the current pad and I like it. Recently dumped the premium channels (The Sopranos e' fini) upgraded to the 250 channel package with a metric s***load of HD channels. Watching the Masters in HD was an erotic experience.
And *sigh* yes, hockey looks f***ing awesome in HD (I think Vs network. has an HD component. Also Food Network HD is highly recommended.)
Also there's like 100 channels of digital music including a whole bunch of Sirius channels up to and including the Nihilist's fave The All Elvis Channel.
And DVR on 2 TVs. All for about $80 a month. And worth every penny.
Of course, if you were ever to attend the PostMilF you could experience it (plus I got it hooked in to my bong rattling surround sound system.)
MilF? Hmmm...Never heard of it.
James
from California also digs the hockey on the dish:
Can't really help you on package deal info. I have DirecTV and AT&T internet, but I do love Direct TV (in HD of course!)!!! Of course I spend way too much time watching hockey (The NHL Network is great. Hockey in HD is great. the DVR makes commercial-free goodness), but fortunately the Wild look like they are going to end my TV hockey addiction no later than Saturday.
I have got pretty good service from Direct TV. I had a couple glitches early on (my guess? me being stupid) and they were resolved very quickly.
Steve from Shakopee thinks the dish is a better value:
I was reading about your impeding move and thought I'd give you my cents about what we have. We have the bundle from Qwest. We have phone, DirecTV and DSL. I think we pay around $130 for the package. I have been very happy with my DirecTV and it's better than cable in my opinion. We get more channels for significantly less money than when we had cable. We've hardly had any disruptions in service. If your new house has a lot of trees around, that may be an issue, but I didn't have that much trouble with it when I lived in SLP.
Dan from Tennessee cut the cable and the landline:
Saw your post the other day on Fraters Libertas about your search for a new cable/phone/internet provider. I am a regular NARN podcast listener and frequently check your site as well.
First,
here's an interesting column which makes me think you might be getting a call from Comcast in the near future.
When I lived in Philly, I tolerated Comcast's ever-rising rates mainly because I associate them (in a good way) with Philly sports. Could a true Philly sports fan ever pull the plug on Comcast, I wondered... But when we moved to Tennessee last year, we went with Charter (a unit/division/affiliate of Comcast) for a while, then switched to DirecTV. It's a little cheaper (even after intro rates expire), you get some more channels, and more HD options.
Never really considered the cable/internet/phone thing because we've been going without a home phone since we moved last year. Just doesn't seem necessary--our two cell phones do the trick. I guess if you got a package where it's not really an added cost, it makes sense, but otherwise my recommendation is to make sure you have the appropriate cell phone plan and then ditch the landline.
The only downside I can see to not having a landline is 911 response. A tradeoff I'm not yet prepared to make.
The Night Writer
likes the dish too, but notes another tradeoff: I've got the bundled plan through Qwest that offers MSN DSL, Direct TV HD and, uh, something else that I'm not sure of, perhaps basic phone. I think we're at $99 for the package on a 2-year contract that still has six months or so to go.
The DSL is fast enough for me even with downloading iTunes. Speed appears comparable to the T1 connection I have at work. Comcast Broadband may be faster (if you believe their advertising) but it hasn't hampered me.
The real issue is Direct TV, which I'm very satisfied with. The biggest drawback is that you can lose the signal in heavy winds which isn't an issue for the digital cable provider. There are plenty of channels including several dedicated HD and the sports thrown in the package are great: you get the NFL and Big 10 networks at no extra charge and Direct TV dedicated four HD channels to the Masters last week, again at no extra charge (you could watch the main broadcast, go to a highlights channel, or go to channels focusing on Amen Corner or the 16th hole).
The thing I hate about Comcast is the price. They always have the advertising come-on about their low, bundled rate...but wait for the disclaimer at the end when they say standard rates apply after the promotional period! My research shows that Comcast is significantly higher than DirectTV (or Dish Network). The occasional, short-term aggravation of a wind-blown loss of signal doesn't compare too badly to the monthly aggravation of paying more to Comcast.
Mike from Wyoming continues that theme:
I have had Direct TV for sometime. Excellent but with one caveat, when it rains or snows, hard say goodbye to signal. I would say any sat service would have this Achilles heal. Good luck.
Trent offers a cautionary tale that causes one to reconsider cable cutting:
My two cents on satellite vs. cable and my experience: So, I'm watching the Wild in game 4 of the 2003 playoffs on my Dish Network satellite which I just purchased 3 weeks prior. I loved the high quality picture and sound, and remember thinking, "why didn't I do this sooner?" I had the perfect evening planned--the Wife was out of town for meetings, a twelve pack of Summit Extra Pale Ale was in the 'fridge with the first two bottles chilling in the freezer, and I was finishing preparing a plate of my world famous nachos.
Just as I'm taking a sip of my first Summit, the wind she starts a blowin' and the rain she starts a fallin'--accompanied by a message on my TV stating my signal had been lost. This occurred sporadically throughout the entire game, and became an ongoing problem with any weather other than clear conditions with no wind. Thank goodness it rarely rains and snows here! Additionally, Dish just launched a new HD satellite (their first new satellite since 2004) which failed to reach orbit and is believed to be a total loss.
I now have outrageously expensive, yet completely reliable cable.
Another Paul also finds another plus for cable:
We've got about the same Comcast package you now do. We've also got an RV with Dish TV so I've compared both. While the dish is just as "good" it can (and will) go out in bad weather--heavy rain and even wind has screwed it up. The down side is cable internet has DSL totally beat for computers. You may as well stick with hard wired cable if you want the internet.
The bottom line? Satellite TV is a better deal than cable, but cable is more reliable. Cable internet service is faster than DSL. Watching hockey in HD rocks.
So where does that leave me? Still undecided, but with a lot more to think about. Labels:
Domestic Tranquility
Posted by Chad-- Link
Thursday, April 17, 2008
It's A Silent Flight For A Satelllite
One of the few benefits of moving is that it gives you an opportunity to reconsider some of your home service options. Currently, we pay about one ten a month for our cable and high speed internet access from Comcast. The cable package is essentially basic-plus (called "standard cable"), no premium sports or movie channels like high-enders such as JB and Atomizer receive.
Now that we're on the verge of relocating, I've been looking at other options. Ideally, it would be a package deal that includes television, internet, and phone service. Comcast offers such a package and signing up for it would give us a small net monthly savings. But Comcast is Comcast. I like their internet service and their cable offering meets our basic needs. But since their prices don't seem to have a problem staying well ahead of inflation I'm willing to explore other options.
The Dish Network? Direct TV? If you've had experience with either--especially if you're in on a TV/phone/internet deal--I'd love to hear from you.
rightwinger23@hotmail.com Good, bad, and ugly experiences (and advice) welcomed. Labels:
Domestic Tranquility
Posted by Chad-- Link
Thursday, March 27, 2008
Meanwhile, On The Home Front
It's been a busy couple of weeks on the home front. We accepted an offer, signed a purchase agreement, and... ...ended up nixing the deal after negotiations broke down following the inspection. It was not a fun experience, but it did teach us a few valuable lessons:
#1 Trust your gut instincts: We knew these buyers were trouble from the git go, but because we were tired of the showings, open-house, life-in-limbo rigmarole of having our house on the market, we ignored our better judgment and hoped that things would work out in the end. They didn't and we should have known they wouldn't.
#2 If you find out that the buyers are related to the agent representing them, run don't walk away from them. Trust me on this one.
I would hope that the first-time home buyers learned some lessons from this as well.
#1 While it may be a buyers market out there, there are limits to just how far the seller is willing to go. Try to recognize when you're pushing those limits and be willing to back off or risk losing the deal.
#2 Speaking of risk, another lesson for first-time homebuyers is that purchasing a house ALWAYS involves some risk. You can seek to mitigate that risk to a certain extent, but you cannot eliminate it. It you can't tolerate risk, don't buy a house.
#3 Just because all the homes you see on HGTV have updated bathrooms, kitchens, appliances, etc. don't expect that the house you buy will. There's a reason that these houses are in your price range. Be realistic and expect that you will have to do some work after you move in.
The good news is that no sooner did one deal fall apart than we were working another one. We're past the inspection stage and so far have had no issues. Now, we need to find a house, make an offer, negotiate a price, agree on a close, do an inspection, etc. The fun just never ends. Labels:
Domestic Tranquility
Posted by Chad-- Link
Wednesday, December 07, 2005
Why Must I Fail At Every Attempt At Masonry?
With very little fanfare, and scant attention paid by the national media, last night was Christmas tree raising night at Balsawood. The festivities actually began on Sunday last when yours truly, the lovely Atomizerette and The Boy made our annual trek to the local garden store to pay them an ungodly amount of cash so they could strap a dead coniferous tree to the top of our car and have us haul it off their property with seasonally adjusted smiles on each and every one of our frozen faces. Not a bad racket, I must say. Unfortunately, the pleasant part of the festivities ended shortly thereafter. Once our new dead tree was rather unceremoniously deposited upon the living room floor, it became time to introduce the tree stand into the mix. After my strong, and repeated, recommendation, the lovely Atomizerette purchased an all metal stand during last year's post-Christmas inventory sale-abration at WalCoMart. The plastic one we had used in previous years was...well, rather used. It is now, thankfully, no longer with us (though some of the curse words I used during last year's tree raising still hang heavy in the air). My hopes were high as I removed the unused stand from its box, which had
this
rather sturdy image imprinted upon it. I'm sure the stand is as sturdy as it appears...in some bizarre backwards universe where mere humans have the ability to somehow muster up the inordinate amount of patience required to actually put this confounded thing together, then coax it onto the base of the tree without having the whole thing fall apart again and then tighten the eyebolts (which are way too large for their pre-drilled holes, mind you) deep into the trunk all while keeping the tree standing upright and straight, maintaining complete sanity and preserving an unspilled cocktail. My cocktail remained unspilled (naturally) but my sanity is as apt to be seen in these parts again as
Miss Waldron's red colobus monkeys
are. I seriously got to a point in this process where I felt compelled to hastily pull the stand off the trunk of the tree, march loudly to the front door and fling the offending hunk of metal into the middle of my snow covered lawn (though I was actually aiming for the street). I really hope none of my neighbors happened to be looking out their window at this moment because I'm certain I looked like a severely crack-addled discus thrower. It felt damn good, though. After the ensuing emergency trip to Home Depot, during which the lovely Atomizerette and The Boy discussed my immediate need for anger management classes, we are now the proud owners of a "never-fail"
Cinco tree stand
(yes, it's plastic) that required all of about five minutes to work its magic on our now beautifully decorated Christmas tree. With peace and harmony restored to Balsawood I can now say to you all, best wishes for a very Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year...except to the filthy cretins at
Jack-Post Corporation . You can come collect the pile of useless metal off my lawn any time now. Labels:
Domestic Tranquility
Posted by Atomizer-- Link
Monday, August 22, 2005
Brownshirts Debating Short Pants
Suffice it to say that a good time was had by all during the festivities this weekend to commemorate the end of the carefree, shirtless, block of cheese eating days of bachelorhood for JB Doubtless. The appropriate sacrifices were made to appease Bacchus (or Dionysus as Saint Paul prefers). Great issues of the day were discussed. No farm animals were injured during the production (although I think Atomizer is still a little sore today). And most importantly, the cardinal (and really only) rule of bachelor parties was observed: we brought the would-be groom back alive.
In fact, it was the best man who came the closest to slipping this mortal coil when an errant tee shot off the driver of JB came way too close for comfort. If there was any doubt that being hit by said drive could have proved life threatening, it was quickly dispelled when JB took a mulligan and drilled his next drive in almost exactly the same place, this time nailing a golf cart hard enough to dent one of the steel roof supports. It's a bit disquieting to think what might have happened had one of his drives made contact with less resistant material. My head, for instance.
The already married among us also took the opportunity to advise JB on the keys to a successful marriage. The most important being to always remember that marriage is not a battle. No, it's more like a war. A long, hard slog that you have no hope of ever winning, but most definitely can lose. The best strategy to pursue is one of containment. Clearly demarcate your areas of influence early on and zealously resist any intrusion upon them.
This approach is more than figurative when it comes to the home front. The garage is clearly your base of operations and, in worst cases, your last refuge. It must be held at all costs. Lose the garage and you might as well start watching Oprah and talking about your feelings because it's over. Never yield an inch of the garage.
Your second bastion of freedom should be the basement. When you first move in to a house together, you should stake a claim to as much of the basement as possible. I'm not talking about the laundry room or storage spaces. I'm talking a shop, a place to watch sports, and, if you can manage it, a bar. Within the house itself, the basement bar will become your fortress. It's not always possible to control the entire basement, but it should definitely be considered your sphere of influence.
The rest of the house? Other than an office, you're probably not going to be much of a factor. You can pretty much write off bedrooms, bathrooms, the kitchen, the dining room, the living room, and any other space above ground. If you can score an office of your own (or even better a den) it would be a major coup. More likely, you'll have to compromise somewhat here and settle for joint control of any office space.
But just because you've ceded most of these areas, doesn't mean that you should ignore them completely. It's a good idea to occasionally make a feint to draw your wife's attention and distract her from other activities (like your plan for the dish on the garage). "Honey, I was thinking that the wall in the living room is looking a little empty. What about hanging up that great poster from the movie 'Jackass'?" This gambit will be even more effective if you approach your wife with hammer and framed poster already in hand. It's obvious your suggestion has about as much chance of becoming reality as Chuck Hagel winning the GOP endorsement for president, but sometimes the battles that you lose are as important as the ones you win.
Armed with this knowledge, and may other pearls of wisdom offered by the assembled crowd, the road to marital bliss should now be clear for JB.
Of course there was much more than just matrimonial musings going on. The Nihilist In Golf Pants has already ably documented the
Top 11 Debate Issues This Past Weekend . (By the way, it's nice to see that Hugh has
finally noticed
the fine work being done at Nihilist In Golf Pants by the Nihilist and his loyal sidekick, Sisyphus. NIGP is one of the many "Fraters inspired" blogs out there--we prefer to call them "Spawn of Fraters"--and is probably the second funniest among them next to this
guy .)
With one notable exception.
Inspired by an in-depth expose in Star Magazine that offered various theories on
Why Jessica's Butt Has Gone Flat , we did indeed have lengthy and animated discussions on that burning issue of the day. This talk invariably lead us to evaluate the talents of Jessica Simpson in the role of Daisy Duke compared to Catherine Bach, the original Daisy from the TV series. Since we were not able to resolve the matter ourselves over the weekend, we now turn to you. Catherine Bach (in her prime) versus Jessica Simpson (in her pre-flat butt days)?
We report (based on what we read in Star Magazine), you decide (by voting in our poll). Labels:
Domestic Tranquility
Posted by Chad-- Link
Thursday, August 19, 2004
Someone's In The Kitchen With Jason
Florin Carcu awoke last Friday terrified that something dreadful was about to befall him.
He was right :
A superstitious Romanian, who refused to leave his house throughout Friday, the 13th of August to avoid bad luck, died after he was stung by a wasp in his kitchen, police said.
Now, I'm not here to say that Mr. Carcu overreacted to a childish superstition. On the contrary, I think that the poor man under-reacted.
If I ever wake up with the nagging feeling that I'm about to suffer some horrible and undeserved fate, the absolute last setting I would place myself in would be the kitchen.
Think about it. The kitchen is full of all sorts of unpredictable hazards...like the drawer full of knives, the gas cooktop with the leaky valve, the dozens of toxic cleansing liquids under the sink and the cabinet stuffed with precariously stacked cookware. One misstep in there and you?re lying on the floor in a pool of bleach with a cast iron saucepan on your head and a meat cleaver protruding from your abdomen while straining to suck the last few molecules of oxygen out of the room before your house ignites like a gasoline soaked Roman candle in a forest fire.
No thank you. I'd prefer to spend my last hours of cowering madness curled up in my own bed with a half gallon of gin, a carton of smokes and a pointed stick. No dangers there. Labels:
Domestic Tranquility
Posted by Atomizer-- Link
Tuesday, August 03, 2004
And I May Ask Myself: Well...How Did I Get Here?
I'm officially old. I don't necessarily mean old in the "years spent on this planet" sense. I mean in the "things were a lot different ten years ago" sense. Take, for example, my most recent birthday which I celebrated this past Saturday (I'll let
Dennis
from an anarcho-syndicalist commune tell you just how old I am). My gifts-received list includes a
lopper , two garden hoses, two hedge clippers, a case of adult diapers and a cemetery plot. Well, maybe not the last two...but the first five items are indeed currently residing in my garage. What I'm struggling to discover is just when I became so boring that I consider lawn and garden tools to be acceptable gifts? I recall the day when birthday wrappings concealed far less practical items...things like sky-diving lessons, stereo equipment and the occasional meth lab. To be fair to my wonderful family, I didn't receive any gifts that I did not specifically express a desire for. This, of course, only reinforces the feeling that I have undergone a sort of premature oldification...the feeling that my days of youthful exuberance are gone...the realization that I am rapidly becoming...middle aged. My long weekend of personal discovery continued on into Monday morning. As my alarm rudely jolted me out of bed, I immediately felt a compelling need (stronger than on most Mondays) to pull a "sick day" out of my back pocket. While working for The Man (or in my case, five women) may have its drawbacks, the off-the-cuff sick day is certainly not one of them. After enjoying about two extra hours of uninterrupted slumber, I arose from bed refreshed and ready to do all those things I always picture myself doing when I'm chained to my desk at the office. And how did I
really
spend this precious day of freedom, you ask? I trimmed the bushes, pruned the trees, watered the plants and mowed the lawn. I may be a boring old fart...but my yard sure looks nice. Now, where did I put that old meth lab? Labels:
Domestic Tranquility
Posted by Atomizer-- Link
Wednesday, July 03, 2002
Happy Birthday to Me
When we were kids there was that commercial where a guy's boss comes in, hands him a ticket and says something like, "Johnson, we need you in Omaha by tomorrow." He lamely replies, "But it's my birthsday." We used that line a lot cause the guy had a slight lisp and it just sounded so damn wussy.
Today, I'm getting ready for work. First I discover that our cat (aka the Wood) has puked on our living room rug. After a few GDs I clean it up and continue getting ready. Since I'm the only one in the office this week I've been wearing shorts the last few days. As I go to put my shorts on today I catch the unmistakable odor of kitty urine. On my shorts. Which were laying on the bed. Soaked through to the comforter, sheets, and mattress pad. F'in cat! I now have to soak my short and the comforter and put the other Shiite stuff in the warsh lest the smell set in.
All I could think of as I was forced to repair the damages that Woody's bodily fluids have inflicted was:
"But it's my birthsday." Labels:
Domestic Tranquility
Posted by Chad-- Link
Tuesday, April 16, 2002
The Need For Hounds
Last night at home, trying to study the dreadfully boring material for an upcoming exam on Execution and Control of Operations when my efforts are interrupted by the buzz of the door bell. I wearily rise from the couch saunter over and open the door to find a young, side-burned punk with clipboard in hand. Let's see, Fresh Water Action Committee? People for the Ethical Treatment of Ants? Watch where you're walking there bud.
"Hi my name is B and I'm out trying to raise awareness and money for the Sierra Club the oldest environmental activist organization in America, blah, blah, blah..."
Mentally a door slams in my mind and I fantasize being able to utter the simple command, "Release the hounds" and watching the terrified youngster experience an up close and personal encounter with nature.
Burns: What's wrong with Crippler?
Smithers: Ah, he's getting on, sir, he's been here since the late '60s.
Burns: Ah, yes. I never forget the day he bagged his first hippie. That young man didn't think it was too grooooovy.
But I control my more base impulses and politely inform him that I'm not interested. He shoots me a condescending glance that says "You ungrateful suburban fool. Here I am out to save the planet and all you care about is watching TV, driving your SUV, and exploiting our precious resources. You just don't understand these grave issues of the day."
For a moment I'm tempting to grab the insolent punk by his shirt, physically drag him into my home, and deliver an intellectual thrashing that shatters his naive worldview and leaves him sobbing like a child who learns that there really isn't a Santa Claus. You wanna talk about drilling in Anwar? How about global warming and the Kyoto Treaty? The population explosion you say? The destruction of the rain forest concerns you? It's go time.
But instead I simply sigh, shake my head, and close the door. He ain't even worth my time. Labels:
Domestic Tranquility
Posted by Chad-- Link
TALK O' THE TOWN
Listen to the Northern Alliance Radio Network on Saturdays from 11am 'til 3pm on
AM 1280-The Patriot :
* The First Team 11am-1pm
* The Headliners 1pm-3pm
Podcast Archives
This week on The First Team:
Brian and John continue to voice their heated rhetoric and troublesome vitriol.
Read
Alli
reviews
INTERVIEW ARCHIVE
2009-10 NARN LOON O' THE WEEK
3/20-- Rick Perriello
3/13-- Nancy Pelosi
3/6-- Harry Reid
2/20-- Keith Olbermann
2/13-- Larry O'Donnell
2/6-- Barack Obama
1/30-- Carol Shea Porter
1/16-- Martha Coakley
1/9-- Mike Malloy
12/19-- Al Gore
12/12-- Harry Reid
11/21-- Al Gore
11/14-- Nancy Synderman
11/7-- Roland Burris
10/31-- Levi Johnston
10/24-- Alan Grayson
10/17-- Rick Sanchez
10/10-- Barbara Boxer
9/26-- Ed Schultz
9/19-- Jimmy Carter
9/5-- Chris Matthews
8/29-- Dan Savage
8/22-- Brad Pitt
8/15-- Chris Matthews
8/8-- Barbara Boxer
8/1-- Bill Maher
7/11-- Maddow/Klobuchar
7/4-- Al Franken
6/13-- David Letterman
6/6-- Harry Reid
5/30-- Drew Barrymore
5/23-- Jesse Ventura
5/16-- Wanda Sykes
5/9-- Alren Specter
5/2-- Nancy Pelosi
4/25-- Janeane Garofalo
4/4-- Damon Greene
3/28-- Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva
3/21-- Charles Grassley
3/14-- Seymour Hersh
3/7-- DL Hughley
2/28-- Sean Penn
2/21-- James Clyburn
2/14-- Chuck Schumer
2/7-- Nancy Pelosi
1/31-- Nancy Pelosi
1/24-- Richard Lugar
1/10-- PETA
1/3-- Caroline Kennedy
2008 Loons of the Week
2007 Loons of the Week
2006 Loons of the Week
GOOD DEEDS
Compassion
Misericordia Orphanage
MN Patriot Guard
Soldiers' Angels
Spirit of America
Tee It Up For The Troops
World Vision
TRIVIAL PURSUITS
Keegan's Irish Pub Thursdays at 8pm
MINNESOTA ORGANIZATION OF BLOGGERS