happyhourLA!: This (Liquid) Kitty Has Claws
skip to main
|
skip to sidebar
8.26.2009
This (Liquid) Kitty Has Claws
Name:
Liquid Kitty Coordinates:
11780 W. Pico Blvd., 90064 Neighborhood:
West LA, but spiritually closer to Downtown Happiest Hours:
M-F
5pm-8pm
and all night Sundays, plus rock-bottom "Recession" pricing on Tuesdays and Wednesdays. Apparently, even nightlife impresarios, including
The Single-handed Savior of Downtown Los Angeles , have to get their start somewhere. I mean, of course, in this case Cedd Moses, whose march to conquer the the Downtown LA nightlife scene has been met with cheers, thrown laurels, and
winsome and comely girls of virtue true .
That's unlike
Sam Nazarian's march through Hollywood , was more like the Soviet Union's march through Eastern Europe. Except for, you know, the whole
"selling out to reality television"
thing. The difference, though, is while Nazarian (and his minion, Brent Bolthouse) make clubs and nightspots that celebrities and the people who care about celebrities want to go to, Moses and his 213Downtown collective make bars that LA people want to go to. Given the choice between going to
Area
or
Hyde
and Seven Grand or the
Golden Gopher , I'll take the latter two every time, as will the vast majority of locals I know. Clubs like Area are for people who think that's what LA is like all the time, while Moses's bars are for people who are glad that clubs like Area exist to draw the
gawkers
and the
shiny-black-shoes crowd
away from the good places. The only bummer about this whole dime-store-psychology breakdown of the LA bar scene is this -- for us Westsiders, it's a bit of a hike to make it Downtown, and into Moses-controlled turf. And, while that may technically be true, I -- being your intrepid, Sherpa-like guide and host -- found a little loophole that you can bust out in case of emergency. Did you know that Cedd Moses used to own
Liquid Kitty ? Until a couple of weeks ago, I didn't. But you know, now that I DO know that fact, it all kind of makes sense. Here's a bar that's been around a while, serves pretty great drinks that are made with care and good ingredients, and whose decor/overall theme hearkens back to a simpler, more drink-oriented time. And, given the kind of businesses and buildings that surround Liquid Kitty, it wasn't in the world's best or coolest neighborhood when it first opened. In that sense, the LA bar scholar can look at Liquid Kitty as a sort petri dish, or test kitchen, for Moses's grand designs on Downtown. The Vitals:
Liquid Kitty serves booze. Great big glasses of booze. No appetizers. No small bites menu. In fact, no food at all. Only booze. But, despite the "Swingers"-era-looking neon martini glass sign out front, they do a little bit more than just six ounces of chilled vodka in a glass. Rather, they have some nice,
old-school cocktails
made with care by (in this case) Damian, a 12-year veteran of the place. Prices and specials are good -- $4 well drinks, $4 "Lowlifes"( i.e, a shot and a can of PBR), and $9 specialty drinks, which are jumbo-yet-well-made cocktails like the
Manhattan
and the
Sazerac . Moreover, there's none of this " ultralounge " pretentious bullshit that pervades Hollywood -- in fact, Liquid Kitty has much more of a classic-but-divey feel about it, just like Moses's latest Downtown efforts. So, in a sense, the place is not only a sociological middle ground of Moses's career as a nightlife maven (he doesn't have a stake in the place anymore), but it's also a place to witness the changing tastes of LA's nightlife culture as a whole. It's almost like
"Mad Men ," which attempts to show the transition between "The Greatest Generation" and the Boomers. That's my pitch -- if Liquid Kitty were a TV show, it would be "Mad Men." And if "Mad Men" was a bar, it would be Liquid Kitty. Or hell, maybe it's just a good bar with great deals.
this happy hour can be found in ...
West LA
No comments:
Post a Comment
Newer Post
Older Post
Home
Subscribe to:
Post Comments (Atom)
My Blog List
See Jane.
Perfect Poncho (See Jane Wear)
15 hours ago
The Minty
Manhattan Beach: Steak at The Arthur J.
1 day ago
Thirsty In LA
Big Bar Celebrates Five Years of Being “Stupidly Awesome”
3 weeks ago
Budget Retro
Bank Repo Cars For Sale Secrets
2 months ago
Caroline on Crack
The Baller’s Guide to Napa Valley: Most Expensive Tasting Menu to VIP Wine
Tasting
8 months ago
Web Hosting Help Guy
Google Webmaster Tools – Most Essential SEO Asset
4 years ago
Spinner
Humble Abode
4 years ago
Sociable
Past Happy Times
September 2012
(1)
April 2010
(1)
December 2009
(1)
September 2009
(2)
August 2009
(2)
July 2009
(6)
June 2009
(7)
May 2009
(4)
April 2009
(6)
Neighborhoods
* five ring friday *
Beverly Hills
Downtown
Franklin Village
Hollywood
Los Feliz
Santa Monica
Silverlake
The Valley
Venice
West Hollywood
West LA
Search HHLA!
Loading...
Click!
Subscribe in a reader
Twitter Updates
Twitter Updates
follow me on Twitter