The intrepid home bartender:
vermouths | Examiner.com
Skip to main content
Report this ad
In Leisure:
Food & Drink Travel Spa & Beauty Autos & Motorcycles Bars & Clubs
Facebook Twitter Google Plus Search
Leisure
Food & Drink
Drinks
The intrepid home bartender:
vermouths
May 1, 2010
10:12 AM MST
Facebook
Twitter
Pinterest
Linkedin
Google Plus
Photo/Noilly Prat Vermouth
In order to have a great home bar, you have to have some great spirits to work with.  But it's equally important to have the proper accoutrements as well, for you can't make a superlative cocktail without the right ingredients and the right equipment.
Three things a home bar should have: 1) good vermouth, 2) a selection of choice bitters, and 3) some finishing salts.  So let's talk about vermouth.
Photo/Martini & Rossi
Vermouth
What would you think if you walked into a bar and ordered a cocktail that included your favorite spirit for which you would gladly pay extra because you like the best---and then watched the bartender mix that spirit with the cheapest vermouth possible?  A cocktail is only as good as its least ingredient, so why pinch pennies on the supporting players?  They are important too.
So don't settle for an inexpensive vermouth.  That's false economy.  The good news is that even the choicest vermouths aren't really all that expensive
Martini & Rossi
(Italian),
Noilly Prat
(French) and the highly regarded
Dolin
(French) are readily available, and none are costly.
Another vermouth you might consider is a California version, made by Andrew Quady, a winemaker who was frustrated at the dearth of good quality vermouths around and decided to make his own.  The result was
Vya Vermouth , and it is good stuff indeed, rich and full of flavor.
For Martinis and other drinks that call for it, there is dry white vermouth.  Be careful though: some white vermouths are sweeter.  Make sure you have the proper one in your bar.  Or both.
For other drinks, such as a
Manhattan
you'll need a sweet red vermouth.  And finally, you'll need a complex, drier and fuller-flavored bitter vermouth or liqueur for flavoring your cocktails and mixed drinks.
The venerable firm of Carpano (Antonio Carpano is the man credited with inventing vermouth) has two excellent mixers,
Punt e Mes
and the even more highly regarded
Carpano Antico Formulae , an amazing traditional bitter vermouth that has astounding
complexities of flavor that will enhance a great many drinks---and most especially those that are whiskey-based, such as a Manhattan or an Old Fashion.
A wide range of liqueurs can also be used to enhance cocktails in interesting ways, but we'll go into those in a future article.
Most of these vermouths are widely available throughout Oregon, and should be easy to find.  Now you can access the
OLCC search engine
from their website to locate the items you're looking for.  The only one that might prove difficult to find is the Carpano Antico Formulae; on the other hand, it's worth seeking out.
Sample through the selections to find the ones you prefer; or you can talk to bartenders and mixologists for their suggestions as well---there's not a bartender I know of that won't talk your ear off about the tools of the trade if you ask.
The Oregon state liquor stores carry a basic selection of vermouths.   But you'll find the wine-based vermouths (as opposed to the spirit based bitters, which are technically in the liqueur category) in grocery stores and specialty shops as well.
One very good place to shop for vermouth is
The Meadow , at 3731 N. Mississippi Avenue.  It's a delightful shop with an a good selection of vermouth and choice wines.  It also has an impressive selection of finishing salts, chocolates, and bitters you should check out.
For more info: To learn more about vermouth, the
Wikipedia
page is an interesting compendium, and it gives some good suggestions as to cocktails that use vermouth.  There's also a fascinating article at
SFGate.com
on vermouth that's well worth reading.  And the always reliable and informative website
The Webtender , gives you the basics of vermouth along with the basic cocktails you can create with your new selection of vermouths.
Report this content
Share
this article
Facebook
Twitter
Pinterest
Linkedin
Google Plus
Subscribe
to author
Comments
Neil Kopplin
5 years ago
Great Article Hoke,
Can't wait to add Oregon's Own Imbue Vermouth to this elite list.
Report this content
Hoke Harden
5 years ago
And I can't wait to sample the Imbue vermouths when they make their debut.
Hopefully, the sooner the better; it's an exciting concept and should do well, I expect.
Report this content
Hoke Harden Portland Spirits Examiner An enthusiastic lover of wine and spirits, Mr. Harden left a career in academia to follow his other muse for the last 27 years, trekking around the world to the great producing regions. Recently referred to as a veritable walking omnibus of wine and spirits knowledge, he has experienced every possible facet of the world of wine and spirits as a retailer, restaurateur, bartender, buyer, wholesaler, supplier, marketer, critic, writer, competition judge and an educator.
He is currently with Elixir Vitae Wine & Spirits Consultants, a member of the Society of Wine Educators, Wine & Spirits Instructor at Mt. Hood Community College, and a Master Instructor with the French Wine Academy. Twitter
Contact me
Featured
Video
Related
stories
Day of the Dead: History, customs in modern Mexican
and Pan de Muertos recipe
Doing craft beer and brewing right on an island in Maine
Koloa announces Kaua'i Coffee Rum from Hawaii
Tap Room grand opening at Whole Foods Market Blossom Hill in San Jose
Nothing scary about these Halloween inspired red wines
Leisure
highlights
Review : Smartphone Wallet from Harley-Davidson is perfect for rides around town Harley-Davidson has got some great new items in store for the 2015 holiday season and their Smartphone Leather Wallet for the ladies makes a perfect gift or stocking stuffer. It is made of lambskin...
Camera
Six best beauty looks from Black-ish star Tracee Ellis Ross Black actresses are definitely having a moment when it comes to drawing in audiences for TV shows. From Kerry Washington in “Scandal” to Viola Davis in “How to Get Away with Murder”, shows starring...
Report this ad
POPULAR
in FOOD & DRINK
Paula Deen’s amazing chicken casserole
Carnival squash recipes: 8 ways to cook the sweet, mellow vegetable
The best mashed potatoes and the best homemade gravy recipe ever
Easy Halloween dessert recipes for spooktacular parties
Christmas snack recipes: Ranch oyster crackers recipe
Order your 2015 Thanksgiving dinner to go at Publix
Day of the Dead: History, customs in modern Mexican
and Pan de Muertos recipe
Kinnikinnick Foods’ new soft donuts take prepared doughnuts to a new level
Halloween parties: 6 easy and creepy foods to serve
Apple recipe:
One extra little step makes this the best apple crisp recipe ever
TRENDING
on EXAMINER.COM
Final Jeopardy answer costs contestant $6000 as she unwittingly insults liberals
Three pit bulls rescued from Florida storm drain
Heartbroken dog begs his owner not to abandon him at shelter
Stunned passengers watch huge dog roll into first class on airplane
Skeletal dog fights for her life in Phoenix
Undercover sting results in arrest of man who wanted to have sex with animals
D'Arcee Neal: Severely disabled man on plane crawls down aisle
Saudi prince drug smuggling on private plane: Will Saudi prince be beheaded?
Megalodon teeth from mouth of 60-ft shark: Jaw-dropping find on N.C. shore
Florida hunter blows life away of nearly blind, old 'Grandfather Bear'
Report this ad
Report this ad
Facebook
Twitter
Linkedin
Google+
Pinterest
Company Links
About us
OnTopic custom content
The Rowdy
Advertise with us
Sitemap
Examiner.com Entertainment
| AXS Network | © 2006-2015 AXS Digital Group LLC d/b/a
Examiner.com |
Privacy Policy
|
Terms of Use
|
About us
Choose a Topic
Arts & Entertainment Arts & Entertainment Music Movies TV Arts & Exhibits Performing Arts Reality TV Celebrity Pop Culture Animation Young Adult Fiction Books Movie Reviews Comic Books AXS Entertainment AXS Entertainment Music Movies TV Arts & Exhibits Performing Arts NFL NHL MLB NBA Fight Sports Soccer Recreational Sports Reality TV Music Festivals News News Top News International News Strange News Science & Space Politics Elections Environment Extreme Weather Government Crime & Courts Business & Finance Same-Sex Marriage Small Business Stock Market Gun Control Global Warming Personal Finance Democrat Republican Political Buzz Marketing and PR Immigration Life Life Home & Living Pets Style & Fashion Family & Parenting Health & Fitness Education Religion & Spirituality Weight Loss & Dieting Weddings Gardening Home Improvement Relationships Green Living Nutrition Neighborhoods Careers & Workplace Sales & Deals Healthcare Jobs Hobbies Leisure Leisure Food & Drink Travel Spa & Beauty Autos & Motorcycles Bars & Clubs Recipes Drinks Budget Travel DIY Mechanic Auto Reviews Natural Beauty Luxury Travel Makeup Hair & Nails Sports Sports MLB NFL NBA NHL Soccer Fight Sports Recreational Sports College Sports General Sports Fantasy Sports Motorsports Hunting & Fishing Hiking Camping Running Equestrian Water Sports Action Sports Endurance Sports Recreation Tech Tech Gadgets & Tech Video Games Internet Tech Gear Tablets iPhone Google Glass Wearable Tech Xbox One Playstation 4 Photography MMOGs Handheld Games Facebook Anonymous Social Media Consoles Bitcoin Google Twitter Video Log In / Register Write for Us
Search