The art of blending beer with spirits, with mixologist Jacob Grier at the Hop & Vine | Examiner.com
Skip to main content
Report this ad
In Leisure:
Food & Drink Travel Spa & Beauty Autos & Motorcycles Bars & Clubs
Facebook Twitter Google Plus Search
Leisure
Food & Drink
Drinks
The art of blending beer with spirits, with mixologist Jacob Grier at the Hop & Vine
July 22, 2010
10:43 AM MST
Facebook
Twitter
Pinterest
Linkedin
Google Plus
Comment
Normal
0
false
false
false
EN-US
X-NONE
X-NONE
Jacob Grier, mixologist, writer, and regional Brand Ambassador for Bols Genever, has been working with two of the talented folks at Hop & Vine, Yetta Vorobik and Ezra Johnson-Greenough, on mixing cocktails with beer.
Last week the trio…er…brewed up… a few combinations of spirits and malts for an avid crowd---and the results were pretty impressive.
The
Hop & Vine
is a cool little place with a casual “Portland vibe” located at 1914 N. Killingsworth.
And although only the beer and wine are mentioned in their name, they have a very active full bar as well.
All three beverages were flowing on this day, but the focus was the beer-laced cocktails.
There’s one school of thought that says, “Hey, if the beer’s already that good, why mess it up by mixing it with something else?”
But in Portland, where the mixologists are pushing the parameters of their craft---as are the brewers and distillers themselves!---experimentation is the name of the game.
And all alcoholic beverages start with fermentation, right?
So why not beer as an ingredient in a cocktail?
Enter Jacob Grier.
An accomplished mixologist, admired throughout the community, Jacob
is a thoughtful, analytical, and methodical craftsman when he approaches his work.
He also has a finely developed sensibility for harmonizing flavors.
Like any good artist, he has a firm grasp of the classics of his genre, but is willing---and able enough---to step beyond the classics and generate ideas of his own.
He also enjoys the collaborative process of working with and listening to others, so he teamed up with Ezra and Yetta in alchemical conspiracy.
So these beertails promised to be interesting.
And they were.
Jacob offered six beer-influenced cocktails, evenly divided between light and fruity and full-bodied, robust and dark.
The
Dutch Devil
is a lovely, light aperitif cocktail, with the intriguing complexities of
Duvel Belgian Ale
(one of the best!) married to the malty smoothness of
Bols Genever , and offset by the contrasting touch of sugars and bitters.
Seems eminently natural served up in a tall flute champagne glass too.
An excellent starter.
The
Quatro Blanco
is a quantum leap in another direction; it leads with a strong herbal/vegetal rush of aroma, a reflection of the mellow agave in the
Herradura Reposado
tequila , the sweet and intense thyme of the obscure and delightful
Farigoule Provencal Thyme Liqueur
and the soft floral and spice notes of the locally made
Upright Brewing Four
(a special release for restaurants, slightly different from the standard bottled version in that it is barrel aged and steeped with different botanicals).
This is a compelling cocktail, more intricate than one might think, and changing subtly as it sits in the glass.
The distinct elements of the three ingredients---the tequila, the liqueur and the beer---retain their individual identities, but they also harmonize gently to create---quite literally---something that was not there before.
Nicely done.
Brewer’s Bramble
is another ‘change-up pitch’ in the cocktail lineup, veering over clearly into the fruit zone.
It’s a simple---Jacob understands the power of simplicity in cocktails---and beautifully balanced combination of
Damrak Dutch Gin ,
Clear Creek
Blackberry Liqueur , and the brilliant addition of
Bruery Hottenroth beer
from Placentia, CA.
The Damrak provides the crisp juniper, the Clear Creek a piquant blackberry fruit, and the Hottenroth a defining finish of sour cherry and light cinnamon spice. Once again, each ingredient retains its specific identity, but all marry together in perfect balance.
Amazingly fresh and lively, this would be a perfect light summertime splash of a cocktail, as suitable for a backyard party as gracing a white tablecloth in an upscale restaurant.
The
Choke Van Roy
stays in the fruit zone while hearkening back to the herbal and vegetal tone of the first two cocktails by blending Cherry Brandy with
Cynar , that strangely compelling bitter liqueur made from artichoke (and when did you think you’d be drinking liquid artichokes---and liking it---when you were a child?), then balancing out the two contrasting flavors with a smooth, sour, and slightly bitter
Cantillon , a gueuze lambic brew.
Again, simplicity:
the use of few ingredients, well chosen, and in perfect balance with each other.
And this cocktail seems to fit nicely into that pantheon of classics such as the
Manhattan
and the
Sidecar .
For the final two beertails, Jacob pulls out all the stops, releases all restraint, and creates two massive bruisers.
Not for the faint of heart, or palate, these two have rich, deep, dark concentrated flavors.
They are not for the wimpy.
The
F*rburger
(and I’m not touching that one; no way) is Jacob’s nod to bourbon whiskey on one hand and stout on the other, with a combination of
Buffalo Trace bourbon
and
Chocolate Oak-Aged Yeti Imperial Stout
from the Great Divide Brewing Company, with the compelling and vibrant green
Chartreuse herb liqueur
to bring the two together.
(Have you figured out Jacob’s style yet?).
Big flavors in this drink, for sure, and all of them delicious, separately and together.
This is a beautifully constructed cocktail.
But the
Cascadian Revolution
rules them all, at least in outright force of flavor.
It’s the big bruiser, the over-the-top, no-holds-barred, statement-of-excess for Jacob’s foray into beertails.
Deschutes Brewery's Hop In The Dark
is the powerful center of this one, with the bittersweet orange (and cognac) of
Grand Marnier , the bright, biting, fiery evergreen
dazzlement of
Clear Creek Douglas Fir eau-de-vie …and then the coup de grace of a drop of pure hop oil that dominates it all with its suffused, intense, overwhelming bitterness.
left, Cascadian Revolution; center, Choke Van Roy; right, Dutch Devil
Warning, though:
the hop oil might be a bit much for some.
It really is intensely bitter, and the oil keeps it on the palate for a very long time and tends to wipe out other flavors. But if you like ‘em large and loud, this is the cocktail for you to try.
So if you're still skeptical of mixing beer with spirits, you might want to rethink it a bit.  It can definitely be done, and done exceedingly well.  A trip over to Hop & Vine might be in order to check it all out.
And if you'd like to know more about Jacob, and read his musings on coffee, cocktails, magic, and just about anything else that strikes his fancy, you can check out his blog
here .
Normal
0
false
false
false
EN-US
X-NONE
X-NONE
Report this content
Share
this article
Facebook
Twitter
Pinterest
Linkedin
Google Plus
Comment
Subscribe
to author
Comments
Hoke Harden Portland Spirits Examiner An enthusiastic lover of wine and spirits, Mr. Harden left a career in academia to follow his other muse for the last 27 years, trekking around the world to the great producing regions. Recently referred to as a veritable walking omnibus of wine and spirits knowledge, he has experienced every possible facet of the world of wine and spirits as a retailer, restaurateur, bartender, buyer, wholesaler, supplier, marketer, critic, writer, competition judge and an educator.
He is currently with Elixir Vitae Wine & Spirits Consultants, a member of the Society of Wine Educators, Wine & Spirits Instructor at Mt. Hood Community College, and a Master Instructor with the French Wine Academy. Twitter
Contact me
Featured
Video
Related
stories
Day of the Dead: History, customs in modern Mexican
and Pan de Muertos recipe
Doing craft beer and brewing right on an island in Maine
Koloa announces Kaua'i Coffee Rum from Hawaii
Tap Room grand opening at Whole Foods Market Blossom Hill in San Jose
Nothing scary about these Halloween inspired red wines
Leisure
highlights
Review : Smartphone Wallet from Harley-Davidson is perfect for rides around town Harley-Davidson has got some great new items in store for the 2015 holiday season and their Smartphone Leather Wallet for the ladies makes a perfect gift or stocking stuffer. It is made of lambskin...
Camera
Six best beauty looks from Black-ish star Tracee Ellis Ross Black actresses are definitely having a moment when it comes to drawing in audiences for TV shows. From Kerry Washington in “Scandal” to Viola Davis in “How to Get Away with Murder”, shows starring...
Report this ad
POPULAR
in FOOD & DRINK
Paula Deen’s amazing chicken casserole
Carnival squash recipes: 8 ways to cook the sweet, mellow vegetable
The best mashed potatoes and the best homemade gravy recipe ever
Easy Halloween dessert recipes for spooktacular parties
Christmas snack recipes: Ranch oyster crackers recipe
Order your 2015 Thanksgiving dinner to go at Publix
Day of the Dead: History, customs in modern Mexican
and Pan de Muertos recipe
Kinnikinnick Foods’ new soft donuts take prepared doughnuts to a new level
Halloween parties: 6 easy and creepy foods to serve
Apple recipe:
One extra little step makes this the best apple crisp recipe ever
TRENDING
on EXAMINER.COM
Final Jeopardy answer costs contestant $6000 as she unwittingly insults liberals
Three pit bulls rescued from Florida storm drain
Heartbroken dog begs his owner not to abandon him at shelter
Stunned passengers watch huge dog roll into first class on airplane
Skeletal dog fights for her life in Phoenix
Undercover sting results in arrest of man who wanted to have sex with animals
D'Arcee Neal: Severely disabled man on plane crawls down aisle
Saudi prince drug smuggling on private plane: Will Saudi prince be beheaded?
Megalodon teeth from mouth of 60-ft shark: Jaw-dropping find on N.C. shore
Florida hunter blows life away of nearly blind, old 'Grandfather Bear'
Report this ad
Report this ad
Facebook
Twitter
Linkedin
Google+
Pinterest
Company Links
About us
OnTopic custom content
The Rowdy
Advertise with us
Sitemap
Examiner.com Entertainment
| AXS Network | © 2006-2015 AXS Digital Group LLC d/b/a
Examiner.com |
Privacy Policy
|
Terms of Use
|
About us
Choose a Topic
Arts & Entertainment Arts & Entertainment Music Movies TV Arts & Exhibits Performing Arts Reality TV Celebrity Pop Culture Animation Young Adult Fiction Books Movie Reviews Comic Books AXS Entertainment AXS Entertainment Music Movies TV Arts & Exhibits Performing Arts NFL NHL MLB NBA Fight Sports Soccer Recreational Sports Reality TV Music Festivals News News Top News International News Strange News Science & Space Politics Elections Environment Extreme Weather Government Crime & Courts Business & Finance Same-Sex Marriage Small Business Stock Market Gun Control Global Warming Personal Finance Democrat Republican Political Buzz Marketing and PR Immigration Life Life Home & Living Pets Style & Fashion Family & Parenting Health & Fitness Education Religion & Spirituality Weight Loss & Dieting Weddings Gardening Home Improvement Relationships Green Living Nutrition Neighborhoods Careers & Workplace Sales & Deals Healthcare Jobs Hobbies Leisure Leisure Food & Drink Travel Spa & Beauty Autos & Motorcycles Bars & Clubs Recipes Drinks Budget Travel DIY Mechanic Auto Reviews Natural Beauty Luxury Travel Makeup Hair & Nails Sports Sports MLB NFL NBA NHL Soccer Fight Sports Recreational Sports College Sports General Sports Fantasy Sports Motorsports Hunting & Fishing Hiking Camping Running Equestrian Water Sports Action Sports Endurance Sports Recreation Tech Tech Gadgets & Tech Video Games Internet Tech Gear Tablets iPhone Google Glass Wearable Tech Xbox One Playstation 4 Photography MMOGs Handheld Games Facebook Anonymous Social Media Consoles Bitcoin Google Twitter Video Log In / Register Write for Us
Search