Pure Spring Ginger Ale | Meanwhile, at the Manse
Meanwhile, at the Manse
Retrieving and renovating a childhood home
Search
Main menu
Skip to primary content
Skip to secondary content
Home About
Tag Archives:
Pure Spring Ginger Ale
Of Actinolite bears, and picking up pop bottles
Posted on
March 18, 2013
by
Katherine Sedgwick
17
You never know what you’ll find on the internet: tonight I discovered this vintage postcard featuring Actinolite’s Buster and Bandy. It’s for sale by a U.S. collector
here , but the sale ends tomorrow (March 19) and the price isn’t cheap. (Photo from
delcampe.com )
Buster (or maybe Bandy) in the 1960s, behind bars at Price’s Log Cabin service station and restaurant on Highway 7. (Photo by J.A.S. Keay)
Longtime readers might remember my
post from last July featuring Buster and Bandy , the caged Coke-drinking bears who were the star attraction back in the 1960s at
Price’s Log Cabin Restaurant
at
Actinolite , just a few miles southeast of
Queensborough
on the
Trans-Canada Highway . I also posted a couple of photos that my grandfather, the late J.A.S. Keay, had taken of the bears. Subsequently, another central
Hastings County -based blog that I follow,
Provost Family Cookbook & Archives , picked up one of those photos and asked readers if they remembered good old Buster and Bandy. (You can see the post
here . And for a very entertaining music video that features Actinolite prominently and includes mention of the bears – though their names are incorrectly given as Mandy, Bandy and Moe – check out
this post .)
The comments that came in to the Provost post were very entertaining; clearly people have very fond memories of the Actinolite bears. But one comment that was posted very recently was so great that I’m just going to quote it. Not only does Eugene have some good Buster and Bandy recollections, but he brought back another happy childhood memory. (Plus his signoff is classic.)
Yes i remember the bears. I was just a young boy. I’m 60 now. I grew up near
Cloyne
and we used to stop on our trips to
Tweed . I remember giving them a pop. A pop wasn’t something us kids got regularly. 5 cents a bottle? I forget as i didn’t buy it. I just drank it. But we used to pick up empty bottles for a penny each. A dollar was a lot of money for a kid. 100 pop bottles. That was a lot of walking along the road. Polluters paid me haha. And i sold frogs. Now you can hardly use them for fishing. Times sure have changed in 60 yrs. i even thought in the future we would have a box that you ask a question and it would give you the answer. I’m typing on one of those. No flying cars yet though.
Now we collect them for their vintage look (Raymond and I found these in an antique mall in Stratford, Ont., last summer) but back when I was a kid, empty pop bottles meant cash for buying candy, and that was good stuff.
Good stuff, Eugene! I’m sure GM will be introducing the flying cars any day now. Meanwhile, thank you for reminding us all about the days of collecting pop bottles by the roadside. It’s hard to believe now, in these eco-conscious times we live in, but people used to toss soft-drink bottles out of car windows willy-nilly. We kids would get together and go for a walk along the roads outside of Queensborough and gather ’em up. I think by then the refund was up from a penny to 2¢ for a small bottle and 5¢ for a big one, but I could be wrong about that. As Eugene says, we kids benefitted from the polluters’ thoughtless ways. How exciting it was to take our collection of empty Coke, Pepsi, Crush,
Pure Spring ,
Wilson’s , Mountain Dew, Dr. Pepper and Canada Dry bottles to
Bobbie’s or McMurray’s general store
and turn them into cash that could buy a pile of penny candy!
Ah, yes. Coke-drinking bears and bottle-collecting kids. And general stores.
Life was good.
Share this: Twitter Facebook Email Pinterest LinkedIn Google Like this: Like
Loading...
Posted in
Uncategorized
|
Tagged
Actinolite ,
bears at Actinolite ,
Bobbie's ,
Buster and Bandy ,
Cloyne ,
collecting pop bottles ,
general stories ,
Highway 7 ,
J.A.S. Keay ,
McMurray's ,
pop bottles ,
Price's Log Cabin ,
Probost Family Cookbook & Archives ,
Pure Spring Ginger Ale ,
Queensborough ,
Raymond ,
Tweed ,
Wilson's Ginger Ale
|
17
Replies
Local flavours (III): beverages
Posted on
April 6, 2012
by
Katherine Sedgwick
15
Oh man, does this take me back …
Time to pick up where I left off and finish this first round of sharing what I know about distinctly local things to eat and drink in the central Hastings area. I hope I’ll find out about many more as Raymond and I spend more time there.
Wilson's Ginger Ale came from Toronto, Pure Spring from Ottawa. Both are, sadly, long gone.
So this post is about things to drink, and I’m going to start nostalgically by mentioning two soft drinks that are no longer extant:
Wilson’s Ginger Ale
and
Pure Spring Ginger Ale . Wilson’s, in the distinctive green bottle with the white lettering, was produced in Toronto, and Pure Spring in Ottawa, so neither was specifically connected to Hastings County. But both were regional – I don’t suppose you could have got either in Western Canada, or perhaps even Western Ontario – and quite popular in my youth. There seemed to be a Pure Spring push-bar on every general-store door in the area, and I bet you can still find them on some long-shuttered stores. (I am going to look.) Pure Spring made other soft drinks too, but it’s the ginger ale that I most associate with the name – perhaps because ginger ale was generally the soft drink of choice on the extremely rare occasions when our family had what we called “pop” at all.
And then there’s rye, which was very much – and I think maybe still is – the preferred liquor for the liquor-drinkers in that part of the world. I recall a phase when some rye company was attaching stickers that said “A Proud Canadian” to its bottles somehow, and it seemed liked every kid on the school bus had one or more (sometimes many) of those stickers on his or her school binders – except the Sedgwick kids, whose parents’ lips never went near strong drink.
On one of our early visits to look at the Manse, Raymond and I stayed overnight in Tweed and visited that town’s L.C.B.O. (that’s
Liquor Control Board of Ontario
for you outside-Canada readers) store, hoping to find some
wines from not-far-away Prince Edward County . Which we did; for a small liquor store, it has a good selection, and a very friendly and knowledgeable clerk who guided us. But what really struck us was the huge wall of rye. I might be exaggerating to say that more space was allotted to rye than to all other products in the store combined, but I don’t think I’m exaggerating by much. And we subsequently discovered that it’s much the same at the big
LCBO at the Quinte Mall
in Belleville and at the one in Madoc. It’s rye country, for sure. Probably partly because of the big
Corby
distillery that used to be at
Corbyville
(gee, I wonder where they got the name), which is just north of Belleville. There is a history of the distillery operation
here , on an excellent site called
ghosttownpix.com . (“This website is dedicated to all those forgotten communities, which whether due to lousy planning, impossible dreams, or rotten luck, just didn’t make it.”)
Here
is the Ontario section of the site. And here is a wonderful re-creation of the slideshow that was shown to visitors to the Corbyville plant in 1969:
As it happens, rye – especially good rye – has become a rather popular and trendy drink again, doubtless due to the
Mad Men
influence. My long-ago colleague
Beppi Crosariol , who worked with me at the
Kingston Whig-Standard
and is now the wine and spirits writer at the
Globe and Mail , has done several recent columns recommending good rye and good rye drinks, notably the classic
Manhattan . I had clipped
one of those articles , and Raymond and I were able to find most of the brands Beppi was recommending at the good old
Tweed liquor store . And I can now make a mean Manhattan – just like Beppi, who in a helpful video can show you how too,
here .
Finally, what might be the most exciting one of all: a winery in central Hastings! It’s at  Sulphide , a tiny place with a funny name a little east of Tweed (ergo very close to Queensborough), and it’s called the
Potter Settlement Winery . According to the
Harvest Hastings website , it is scheduled to open in 2013 but “already consists of 10 planted acres of vinifera, hybrid and VQA-recognized grapes.” ( VQA
stands for Vintners Quality Alliance, and it’s a Canadian regulatory and appellation system like
AOC
in France or
DOC
in Italy.)
So sometime in 2013, Raymond and I will be trying out the wares of our own local winemaker. Perhaps at our first open house at the Manse. If you are reading this, consider yourself invited.
Share this: Twitter Facebook Email Pinterest LinkedIn Google Like this: Like
Loading...
Posted in
Uncategorized
|
Tagged
Beppi Crosariol ,
Corbyville ,
Corbyville distillery ,
LCBO ,
Manhattan ,
Potter Settlement Winery ,
Pure Spring Ginger Ale ,
rye ,
Sulphide ,
VQA ,
Wilson's Ginger Ale
|
15
Replies
Search
Recent Posts
One good popcorn-ball recipe and bam! It’s Halloween.
Like the sign says: Vote ↑ !
Bonnie Hart, that is one heck of a 1960s music scrapbook!
Peace and dignity, and local care, in the autumn of life
In which a historic church joins the internet, and turkey is served
Follow Meanwhile, at the manse by email
Enter your email address to follow this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Archives
October 2015
September 2015
July 2015
June 2015
May 2015
April 2015
March 2015
February 2015
January 2015
December 2014
November 2014
October 2014
September 2014
August 2014
July 2014
June 2014
May 2014
April 2014
March 2014
February 2014
January 2014
December 2013
November 2013
October 2013
September 2013
August 2013
July 2013
June 2013
May 2013
April 2013
March 2013
February 2013
January 2013
December 2012
November 2012
October 2012
September 2012
August 2012
July 2012
June 2012
May 2012
April 2012
March 2012
February 2012
January 2012
Categories
Al Purdy
(7)
Bancroft
(1)
books
(2)
Christmas
(18)
Food at the Manse
(13)
Gardening
(7)
Journalism and News
(5)
Madoc
(4)
Madoc Township Public School
(1)
Manse-era vintage toys and games
(3)
Montreal
(1)
Music in the Manse Years (1964-1975)
(24)
North of 7
(2)
Raymond
(1)
Rock Acres Peace Festival
(10)
St. Andrew's United Church
(1)
thrift shops
(2)
TV in the Manse Years
(10)
Tweed
(1)
Uncategorized
(915)
Actinolite
Al Purdy
auctions
Avocado Green
Bancroft
Belleville
Black River
Bobbie
Bobbie's
books
Campbellford
Canadian Shield
Christmas
CJBQ
Cooper
Dad
Elaine
Eldorado
Elzevir Township
France
general stores
Haliburton County
Harvest Gold
Hastings County
Hazzards Corners
Hidden Goldmine Bakery
Highway 7
Highway 62
Historic Queensborough Day
internet
J.A.S. Keay
John
Ken
linoleum
Loyalist College
Mad Men
Madoc
Madoc Fair
Madoc Township
Madoc Township Public School
Maine
Manse Committee
maple tree
Marmora
McMurray's
Melanie
Montreal
Montreal Gazette
Mum
Ormsby
Perth
Peterborough
Port Hope
Prince Edward County
Queensborough
Queensborough Community Centre
Queensborough Pastoral Charge
Raymond
red
red truck
Rock Acres Peace Festival
Sieste
St. Andrew's United Church
Stirling
Stoco
The Country North of Belleville
The Rev. Wendell Sedgwick
Times to Remember in Elzevir Township
turquoise
Tweed
Tweed and Area Heritage Centre
Tweed News
United Church of Canada
wasps
yard sales Meta
Register
Log in
Entries
RSS
Comments
RSS
WordPress.com
Follow Meanwhile, at the Manse on WordPress.com
The Twenty Eleven Theme .
|
Blog at WordPress.com .
Meanwhile, at the Manse
Blog at WordPress.com .
The Twenty Eleven Theme .
Follow
Follow “Meanwhile, at the Manse”
Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.
Join 232 other followers
Build a website with WordPress.com
Send to Email Address
Your Name
Your Email Address
Cancel
Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
%d
bloggers like this:
Add your thoughts here... (optional)
Post to
Cancel