Green Drinks: Remixing 10 Classic Cocktails - WebEcoist
Momtastic
WebEcoist | Strange Nature, Rare Animals & Weird World Wonders
Search
Energy
Habitats
Homes
Images
Nature
Tech
Travel
Wonders
Food & Health
Food & Health
Home & Garden
food
Green Drinks: Remixing 10 Classic Cocktails
by
Ecoist
If you’re going to go green, it’s practically your
responsibility
to drink. Green drinks, that is. Get a healthy buzz on with these organic drink recipes that sustain the planet…and your party. Nearly a lifetime away from Prohibition, the culture of cocktails is making a comeback – and this time around, it’s easy to make your drink eco-friendly. A friendly reminder: be sure to use organic ingredients in every cocktail you try, in addition to the eco-friendly liquors, for greenest results. And please drink responsibly.
Sustainable Sangria
(Image via
BBC )
Sangria
is a delicious, luscious drink that will get you completely sozzled if you aren’t careful. That’s owing to the alcohol-infused fruit the drink is chock full of. It’s very easy to make. Soak fruit overnight (any combination of chopped organic fruit like apples, pearls and oranges) in a good value red wine and you’ll have to keep your guests from guzzling the pitchers. Try the
Organic Wine Company
for earth-friendly red wine. Don’t use your best wine for this drink – the fruit will change the wine’s flavor too much for anyone to notice if you shelled out for the expensive vintage.
Eco Margarita
(Image via
Square Meal )
Margaritas were sooooo cool in the 80s. But with all the fantastic artisanal tequilas showing up these days, it would be a shame to bypass this classic drink. Best over ice –
blending
is for wimps. A margarita needs only 3 things: fine tequila, fresh squeezed lime juice, and a splash of triple sec, preferably Cointreau. Forget the simple syrup and nasty premade mixes. A true margarita should be tart and bracing. A great organic, artisanal tequila to try is Dos Lunas, but there are hundreds, so experiment and explore.
Flower Child
(Image source unknown)
Hey, it’s tea time somewhere! Try this delicious tea-infused cocktail from
SmartsCo . It’s sophisticated, complex and, of course, green. The original recipe doesn’t say to rim the glass with sugar but it would make a nice sweet finish on a very floral drink.
Recipe per drink:
2 oz. Square One Organic Vodka infused with Numi Organic “Velvet Garden” white rose tea
1 oz. hibiscus flower concentrate
1/2 oz. fresh organic lemon juice
1/2 oz. Cointreau
Dash of Peychaud bitters
Mix all ingredients in a cocktail shaker and shake for 30 seconds.  Strain into martini glass.  Garnish with a rose petal (if available) or a lemon twist. To infuse: Place 6 teabags per 750 ml. of vodka. Let stand for 4-6 hours, then remove bags.
You’re My Kir
(Image via
wikimedia )
If you want to impress your date, make a kir royale. This sweet, romantic drink is easy. All is requires is
organic champagne
and raspberry liqueur. However, if you can get your hands on some fresh organic raspberries, simply drop a few into the glass for an elegant and sensual drink.
Green Mark
(Images via
Domino
and
Maker’s Mark )
Who knew
Maker’s Mark
had gone sustainable? It’s true, “with its distillery situated on a state-certified nature preserve and with its state-of-the-art recycling and wastewater treatment. Recently, Maker’s Mark began using anaerobic digestion, a process that turns waste into bio-gas that is used for energy, offsetting up to 30 percent of the distillery’s natural gas use. Katz and Lindgren said a big company such as Maker’s Mark could serve as an example for the Slow Food movement.” Use this American bourbon whisky in a number of recipes, such as a
Manhattan
– or simply enjoy it neat.
Classic Martini
(Image via
sizsez )
Square One
makes a terrific, pure organic vodka you’ll love. Try it in the classic martini. Shaken or stirred, it’s bound to please your senses.
About.com
has the original famed recipe. Modern tastes often go sans gin and easy on the vermouth; tinker till you find what you like. If your guest says “very dry” then you’ll want to leave out the vermouth entirely. And if those little swords are any indication, you’ll be vanquishing your inner demons in no time.
Ingredients:
2 1/2 oz gin
1/2 oz dry vermouth
1 green olive or lemon twist for garnish
orange or Angostura bitters (optional)
Preparation:
Pour the ingredients into a mixing glass filled with ice cubes.
Stir
for 30 seconds.
Strain into a chilled
cocktail glass .
Add a dash of
orange or Angostura bitters
if desired
Garnish with the olive or lemon twist.
The Overflowing Cup
(Image via the
Kitchn )
Use an organic gin, like Distillery 209, for this eco twist on the traditional
Pimm’s Cup #1 . Mix one part alcohol with 3 parts organic lemonade or lemon soda (you can also use ginger ale). Crush a few mint leaves in ice and mix. Add a twist of lemon, slice of orange, and a slice of cucumber. Serve to your most parched friend…you know, the one who won’t stop talking about hypermiling.
For the Morning After: Blueberry Hemp Shake
(Image via
Gliving )
This
healthy shake
is loaded to the gills with antioxidants. There’s only one thing missing from it: liquor. Add a hefty splash of organic vodka for a buzz of good health the morning after. Think of this as hair of the eco-friendly dog. You’ll need:
1 1/2 Cups Pure Water
5 TB Hemp Seeds
3 TB Agave Nectar
1 TB Coconut Butter (optional)
1 Tsp. Vanilla Extract
1 10oz Package of Frozen Wild Blueberries
1 Cup Frozen Banana
Pinch of Sea Salt
Cruise over to
GLiving
for further instructions.
Real Green Apple Martini
(Image via
The Having Fun Club )
Forget the gross corn syrup green apple mix. Simply shake organic vodka over plenty of ice and float with a slice of fresh organic green apple. Garnish with lime.
Bloody Good Mary
(Image via
Wikimedia )
There’s nothing like liquid vegetables to get your 5 a day. This one is practically lunch thanks to its delicious skewer of treats. Make sure to choose organic foods only.
1 1/2 ounces vodka
1/2 cup tomato juice
2 teaspoons fresh lemon juice
Worcestershire sauce to taste
Tabasco to taste
1 skewer with: two large green olives, one lime wedge, one pepperoncini, one large cooked American farmed shrimp, one large chunk blue cheese
1 large celery stick
Combine all liquid ingredients over ice, shake or stir very well, and serve with skewer and celery stick garnish.
SHARE ON FACEBOOK
SHARE ON PINTEREST
70 Extremely Exotic Plants, Flowers, Forests & Trees
70+ Delicious Eco-Friendly Meals and Recipes
drinks earth friendly alcohol food green drinks organic cocktails organic liquor recipes vegetarian
Related Articles
Black Cat Project Lets Overlooked Cats Shine
Kindest Cuts: Emily Stoneking’s Dissected Knits
Boxcars: Max Siedentopf’s Slapdash Supercars
more you may like
Connect
Follow us on Twitter
Follow @webecoist
Follow us on Pinterest
Webecoist
Sign up for our newsletter
Subscribe
topics 7 Wonders Series
Animals & Habitats
Art & Design
Energy & Fuel
Featured Articles
Food & Health
Geography & Travel
History & Trivia
Home & Garden
Nature & Ecosystems
News & Politics
Science & Research
Technology & Gadgets
Transit & Auto
Tricks & Hacks
What’s New
Black Cat Project Lets Overlooked Cats Shine
Kindest Cuts: Emily Stoneking’s Dissected Knits
Boxcars: Max Siedentopf’s Slapdash Supercars
Wisconsin Farmland Ruined By Frac Sand Mining
‹
›
SyndicatedTV Widget
7 Wonders Series
(114)
Animals & Habitats
(399)
Art & Design
(534)
Energy & Fuel
(131)
Featured Articles
(10)
Food & Health
(209)
Geography & Travel
(358)
History & Trivia
(212)
Home & Garden
(336)
Nature & Ecosystems
(560)
News & Politics
(93)
Science & Research
(241)
Technology & Gadgets
(192)
Transit & Auto
(86)
Tricks & Hacks
(71)
WebEcoist
Privacy
Terms
About
Advertise
AdChoices
ADCHOICES
Pingdom String
monitoring_string = "b24acb040fb2d2813c89008839b3fd6a"
monitoring_string = "886fac40cab09d6eb355eb6d60349d3c"
monitoring_string = "c860c0135746db40fcbcf7e4ce4808b6"
monitoring_string = "498e6e663c8b7ecce565ee3818a6ba99"
Google+ String
Google+
Momtastic.com is a property of TotallyHer Media, LLC, an Evolve Media, LLC. company.
© 2015 All rights reserved.