Abalone Fever - The Monkeyface News
The Monkeyface News
Irreverent musings, armchair geography, piscatorial haiku and ground breaking ethnographic insight on the subject of San Francisco's marine fisheries, written by fish inspector, tuba player, baseball historian, n'er do well, stogie chomper, puppet master, crab killer, tenor and reigning monkeyface eel record holder, Kirk Lombard.
Home
Archives
Profile
Subscribe
« Welcome SF Weekly Readers
|
Main
|
Monday Morning Movie (on Tuesday Morning) »
04/21/2011
Abalone Fever
{My new post is directly beneath this note to SF Weekly readers}:
Note to SF Weekly Readers:
Hello folks!  click the link to book my upcoming  Forage SF Tour on Sat., April 23rd.
I am also offering my own private tours.  Look at the right margin under " My SF Tours ."
Sea Forager Tours  is my own coastal foraging tour co.  I am right now offering three tours, click the links at right, to check 'em out.
Site of recent rock picking expedition
Decided to make the mad dash up to our blustery northern Ca. coast last night (actually two nights ago). Got the wake up call at 12:30am.  Slammed the boiling black stuff and hit the road at 01:00, bleary and somewhat regretting the 2 pints I had consumed at 10:00.
A somewhat goofy adventure to be sure.  With a troupe of three very silly men plus one teenager.  I've always said:
although I will probably never attain greatness as a fisherman, I am, at the very least, intelligent enough to hang out with a few great ones .
The great Dengue Fever
I have sung the praises of
Mike D . before, but really, there is no fish/mollusk/arthropod on the west coast that Mike can't put you on. Most of the time he'll have you throw them back... but on occasion he can be convinced to don the steely eyes and bloody pants of what he laughingly calls:
"the harvester of sorrows."
And yesterday was such a day.  One thing about Mike, no matter what you want to fish for, he is happy to oblige.     If your passion happens to be pogies, smelt, greenlings, or herring--no problem.  A jack of all trades this guy. Suffice it to say, without Mike I would not have caught a damned thing.  Plain and simple.
Anyway... I made a rather silly movie on the subject, (see below), and during the making of it was kind of toying with different sound tracks... then, last night, the fishwife and I went out to the Fillmore to see
Dengue Fever , and the thing suddenly made sense.  No denying that abalone is the most sought after local mollusk, especially amongst the South East Asian contingent.  So although Dengue Fever is doing the Cambodian 60s pop thing, it's close enough geographically to Vietnam to kind of make sense in this context... and either way the song rips. But before we get into the cinematic side of things, here's a few pictures of the happy and unhappy results of abalone picking.
Happy:
Unhappy:
Why gloves were invented . The unhappy result of rock-picking abalone.
At the end of the day we stopped off at Goat Rock to fish for perch and see if any day fish were running. Nada on both counts.  Did however catch a glimpse of the barebutt Pacific howler monkey,
Homo Dvorakzensus.
You'll have to keep your eyes peeled for it at the end.
Anyway... here's the latest filmic masterpiece:
Posted at 02:57 PM
|
Permalink
Reblog
(0)
|
|
Comments
You can follow this conversation by subscribing to the
comment feed
for this post.
The comments to this entry are closed.
Sea Forager Tours
Click here to book a tour!
Search
Contact Me:
Sea Forager For seafood or foraging tours go to Seaforager.com
E-mail: fish@seaforager.com
Monkeyface Movies:
The Marvelous Mr. Midshipman
How Not To Make A Fishing Video Lombard Of The Intertidal shows how it's not done.
Poke Poling Video Check out this old Wholphin video of the monkeyface champion doing his thing.
Drain Fishing #3 + Herring Spawn Scroll down for: "Fishing With Kirk."
Drain Fishing #2 Scroll down to bottom for yet another drain fishing snippet.
Drain Fishing #1 Lombard of the Intertidal fishes in drains.
Sand Dabs For My Nephew Awww, ain't that cute.
Clam Man Scrolls down for Man vs. Clam footage.
Night Smelt Scroll down to the bottom for first-ever footage of night smelt "jumping."
Archives
April 2014
November 2013
April 2013
March 2013
February 2013
January 2013
December 2012
November 2012
September 2012
August 2012
Lombard Of The Intertidal
1
Following
16
Followers
Subscribe to this blog's feed
My Blog
Powered by TypePad