Donna Summer dies at 63 | LE POINT - Le fil de presse du Groupe National / Newswire
LE POINT - Le fil de presse du Groupe National / Newswire
Au-delà de la nouvelle, il y a Le Point !
Saturday - 31. October 2015
Accueil / Home
Search
Archives:
October 2015
August 2015
July 2015
June 2015
May 2015
April 2015
March 2015
February 2015
January 2015
December 2014
Categories:
Bible intégrale française
Découvertes SIDA
Le Point / fil de presse international
Spot / International News Wire
Meta:
Log in
Valid
XHTML
Entries
RSS
Comments
RSS
«
Donna Summer meurt à 63
Léo Bureau-Blouin
»
Donna Summer dies at 63
LaDonna Adrian Gaines
(December 31, 1948 – May 17, 2012 [1] ), known by the stage name
Donna Summer , was an American singer/songwriter who gained prominence during the
disco
era of the 1970s. She had a
mezzo-soprano
vocal range, and was a five-time
Grammy Award
winner. [2] [3]
Summer was the first artist to have three consecutive
double albums
reach number one on the US
Billboard
chart, and she also charted four number-one singles in the
United States
within a 13-month period.
Summer died on May 17, 2012. AP reports that she died in the morning at her home in
Key West, Florida
at age 63 following a battle with
breast cancer
and
lung cancer [4] [5]
Contents
1 Early life and career
2 1970s
2.1
Bad Girls
and the break from disco
3 1980s
3.1 Controversy
3.2 European success
4 1990s
5 2000s
6 2010s
7 Personal life
8 Awards and recognition
9 Cover versions by other artists
10 Concert tours
11 Discography
12 References
13 External links
Early life and career
Donna Summer was born on
New Year’s Eve
1948 in the
Dorchester
neighborhood of
Boston ,
Massachusetts . She was one of seven children raised by devout
Christian
parents. Influenced by
Mahalia Jackson , Summer began singing in the church at a young age. In her teens, she formed several musical groups including one with her sister and a cousin, imitating
Motown
girl groups such as
The Supremes
and
Martha and the Vandellas
in Boston.
In the late 1960s, Summer was influenced by
Janis Joplin
after listening to her albums as a member of
Big Brother and the Holding Company , and dropped out of school convinced that music was her way out of Boston, where she had always felt herself to be an outsider, even among her own family who ridiculed her for her voice and her looks. She joined the
psychedelic rock
group the Crow as lead singer, but the group was short-lived as they split upon their arrival in
New York . In 1968, Summer auditioned for a role in the Broadway musical,
Hair , but she lost the part of Sheila to
Melba Moore . When the musical moved to
Europe , Summer was offered the role. She took it and moved to
Germany
for several years. While in Germany, where she learned to speak German fluently, she participated in the musicals
Ich Bin Ich
(the German version of
The Me Nobody Knows ),
Godspell
and
Show Boat . After settling in
Munich , she began performing in several ensembles including the Viennese Folk Opera and also sang as a member of the pop group
FamilyTree
(created by the German music producer
Guenter “Yogi” Lauke ). She joined the group in 1973 and toured with them throughout Europe. [ citation needed ]
She also sang as a studio session singer and in theaters. In 1971, while still using her birth name Donna Gaines, she released her first single, a cover of “ Sally Go ‘Round the Roses “, though it was not a hit. In 1972, she married Austrian actor Helmuth Sommer and gave birth to their daughter Mimi Sommer in 1973. Citing marital problems caused by her affair with German artist (and future live-in boyfriend) Peter Mühldorfer, she divorced Helmuth but kept his last name, anglicising it to “Summer”. She also worked on an album with keyboardist/producer Veit Marvos in 1972, providing backing vocals on his Ariola records release
Nice To See You
(where she was credited under the pseudonym Gayn Pierre). Several single releases over the years have included a young Donna performing with the group, even though she often denied ever singing on any of the Marvos releases. The name “Gayn Pierre” was also used by Donna while performing in
Godspell
with Helmuth Sommer during 1972. [ citation needed ]
1970s
While singing background for the hit-making 1970s trio
Three Dog Night , Summer met producers
Giorgio Moroder
and
Pete Bellotte . She eventually signed a deal with the European label Groovy Records and issued her first album,
Lady of the Night , in 1974. The album was not released in America, but found some limited European success on the strength of the song “ The Hostage “, which reached number one in
Belgium
and number two in the
Netherlands .
In 1975, Summer approached Moroder with an idea for a song she and Bellotte were working on for another singer. She had come up with the lyric “love to love you, baby”. Moroder was interested in developing the new sound that was becoming popular and used Summer’s lyric to develop the song. Moroder persuaded Summer to record what was to be a demo track for another performer. She later said that she had thought of how the song might sound if
Marilyn Monroe
had sung it and began cooing the lyrics. To get into the mood of recording the song, she requested Moroder turn off the lights while they sat on a sofa with him inducing her moans and groans. After hearing playback of the song, Moroder felt Summer’s version should actually be released. Although some radio stations refused to play it due to its suggestive style, “Love to Love You” found chart success in several European countries, and made the Top 5 in the
United Kingdom .
The song was then sent to
Casablanca Records
president
Neil Bogart
in hopes of getting an American release. Bogart informed Summer and Moroder he would release the song (now called “ Love to Love You Baby “) but requested that Moroder produce a longer version for discothèques. Moroder, Bellotte, and Summer returned with a 17 minute version and Casablanca signed Summer and released the single in November 1975. The shorter version of the single was promoted to radio stations whilst clubs (mostly gay) regularly played the 17 minute version (the longer version would also appear on the album). Casablanca became one of the first record labels to popularize the 12” single format. By early 1976, “Love To Love You Baby” had reached #2 on the US
Billboard Hot 100 , while the
parent album of the same name
sold over a million copies. The song generated controversy due to Summer’s moans and groans and some American radio stations, like several in Europe, refused to play it.
Time
magazine
would report that 22 orgasms were simulated in the making of the song. [ citation needed ]
Other upcoming singles included “Try Me, I Know We can Make It”, US #80; “ Could It Be Magic “, US #52; “ Spring Affair “, US #58; and “ Winter Melody “, US #43. The subsequent albums
Love Trilogy
and
Four Seasons of Love
both went gold in the US.
In 1977, Summer released the concept album
I Remember Yesterday . This album included her second top ten single, “ I Feel Love “, which reached number six in the US and number one in the UK. Another concept album, also released in 1977, was
Once Upon a Time , a double album which told of a modern-day
Cinderella
“rags to riches” story through the elements of orchestral disco and ballads. This album would also attain gold status. In 1978, Summer released her version of the
Jimmy Webb
ballad, “ MacArthur Park “, which became her first US number one hit. The song was featured on Summer’s first live album,
Live and More , which also became her first album to hit number one on the US
Billboard 200
chart, and went platinum selling over a million copies. Other studio tracks included the top ten hit, “ Heaven Knows “, which featured the group
Brooklyn Dreams
accompanying her on background and
Joe “Bean” Esposito
singing alongside her on the verses. Summer would later be romantically involved with Brooklyn Dreams singer
Bruce Sudano
and the couple married two years after the song’s release. Also in 1978, Summer acted in the film,
Thank God It’s Friday , playing a singer determined to perform at a hot disco club. The film met modest success, but a song from the film, entitled “ Last Dance “, reached number three on the Hot 100 and resulted in Summer winning her first
Grammy Award . Its writer,
Paul Jabara , won an
Academy Award
for the composition. Despite her musical success, Summer was struggling with anxiety and depression and became dependent on
prescription drugs
for several years.
In 1979, Summer performed at the world-televised
Music for UNICEF Concert , joining contemporaries such as
Abba ,
Olivia Newton-John , the
Bee Gees ,
Andy Gibb ,
Rod Stewart ,
John Denver ,
Earth, Wind and Fire ,
Rita Coolidge
and
Kris Kristofferson
for an hour’s TV special that raised funds and awareness for the world’s children. Artists donated royalties of certain songs, some in perpetuity, to benefit the cause.
Bad Girls
and the break from disco
Summer began work on her next project with Moroder and Bellotte,
Bad Girls , an album that had been in production for nearly two years. Summer based the whole concept on prostitution (revisiting the theme for 1974’s ‘Lady Of The Night’), even dressing as a hooker herself on the cover art. The album became a huge success, spawning the number one hits “ Hot Stuff ” and
Bad Girls , and the number two “ Dim All the Lights “. With
MacArthur Park ,
Hot Stuff ,
Bad Girls , and the
Barbra Streisand
duet “ No More Tears (Enough is Enough) “, Summer achieved four number-one hits within a thirteen month period. Those aforementioned songs, along with
Heaven Knows ,
Last Dance ,
Dim All The Lights , and
On the Radio
(from her upcoming double-album) would give her eight US Top 5 singles within a two year period. “Hot Stuff” later won her a second Grammy in the
Best Female Rock Vocal Performance , the first time the category was included. That year, Summer played eight sold-out nights at the
Universal Amphitheater
in
Los Angeles .
Summer released her first (international) greatest hits set in 1979, a double-album entitled
On The Radio: Greatest Hits Volumes 1 & 2 . The album reached number one in the US, becoming her third consecutive number one album. A new song from the compilation, “ On the Radio “, reached the US top five, selling over a million copies in the U.S. alone.
1980s
After the release of the greatest hits album, Summer wanted to branch out into other musical styles in addition to disco, which led to tensions between her and Casablanca Records. Sensing that they could no longer come to terms, Summer and the label parted ways in 1980, and she signed with
Geffen Records , the new label started by
David Geffen .
Summer’s first release on Geffen Records was
The Wanderer , which replaced the disco sound of Summer’s previous releases with more of the burgeoning
new wave
sound and elements of
rock , such as the material being recorded at this time by
Pat Benatar . The album achieved gold status in the US, and the title track (released as the first single) peaked at #3 in the US, though subsequent singles were only moderate hits.
Summer’s projected second Geffen release, entitled
I’m a Rainbow , was shelved by Geffen Records (though two of the album’s songs would surface in soundtracks of the 1980s films
Fast Times at Ridgemont High
and
Flashdance ). Summer reluctantly parted company with Moroder after seven years working together as Geffen had recruited
Quincy Jones
to produce her next album, 1982’s
Donna Summer . The album had taken a lengthy six months to record. The album’s first single, “ Love Is in Control (Finger on the Trigger) “, became an American top ten hit on the Hot 100, followed by more moderate hits “ State of Independence “(#41 pop) and “The Woman In Me”(#33 pop). Problems then increased between Summer and Geffen Records after they were notified by
Polygram Records , the parent company of Summer’s former label Casablanca, that she needed to deliver them one more album to fulfill her contract with them. Summer delivered the album,
She Works Hard for the Money , and Polygram released it on its
Mercury
imprint in 1983. The title song became a hit reaching number three on the US Hot 100, and would provide Summer with a Grammy nomination. The album also featured the
reggae -flavored UK Top 20 hit “ Unconditional Love “, which featured the British group
Musical Youth
who were riding high from the success of their single “ Pass the Dutchie “. The third US single, “Love Has A Mind of Its Own”, reached the top forty of the Billboard R&B chart. The album itself was certified gold.
In late 1984, with her obligation to Polygram complete, Summer returned on Geffen Records with her next release. Geffen, wanting to keep the momentum going, enlisted
She Works Hard For the Money’ s producer
Michael Omartian
to produce
Cats Without Claws . The album, however, was not as successful as
She Works Hard For the Money
and failed to attain gold status of 500,000 copies sold in the US, becoming her first album since her 1974 debut not to do so. It did include a moderate hit in “ There Goes My Baby “, which peaked at #21.
Controversy
In the mid 1980s, Summer was embroiled in a controversy. She had allegedly made anti-gay remarks regarding the then-relatively new disease,
AIDS , which as a result had a significantly negative impact on her career and saw thousands of her records being returned to her record company by angered fans. Summer, by this time a
born-again Christian , was alleged to have said that AIDS was a punishment from God for the immoral lifestyles of homosexuals. [6] [7]
However, she denied that she had ever made any such comment and, in a letter to the AIDS campaign group
ACT UP
in 1989, she said that it was “a terrible misunderstanding. I was unknowingly protected by those around me from the bad press and hate letters … If I have caused you pain, forgive me.” She went on to apologize for the delay in refuting the rumours and closed her letter with quotes from Chapter 13 of
1 Corinthians
from the Bible. [8]
Also in 1989, Summer told
The Advocate
magazine that “A couple of the people I write with are gay, and they have been ever since I met them. What people want to do with their bodies is their personal preference.”. [9]
A couple of years later she filed a lawsuit against
New York
magazine when it reprinted the rumours as fact just as she was about to release her album
Mistaken Identity
in 1991. [10]
According to a
Biography
television program dedicated to Summer in which she participated in 1995, the lawsuit was settled out of court though neither side was able to divulge any details.
European success
In 1987, Summer returned with the album
All Systems Go , which did not sell well, becoming her second consecutive album not to achieve gold status. It featured the single “ Dinner with Gershwin ” (written by
Brenda Russell ), which was only a minor US hit, though it peaked at #13 in the UK. The album’s title track, “All Systems Go”, was released only in the UK where it peaked at #54.
For Summer’s next album, Geffen Records hired the British hit production team of
Stock Aitken Waterman
(or
SAW ), who had enjoyed incredible success by writing and producing for such acts as
Kylie Minogue ,
Dead or Alive ,
Bananarama , and
Rick Astley
among others. However, Geffen decided not to release the album, entitled
Another Place and Time , and Summer and Geffen Records parted ways in 1988. The album was released in Europe in March 1989 on
Warner Bros. Records , which had been Summer’s label in Europe since 1982. The single “ This Time I Know It’s For Real ” had become a top ten hit in several countries in Europe, prompting the Warner Bros. subsidiary company
Atlantic Records
to sign Summer in the US and pick up the album for a
North American
release soon after. The single peaked at #7 on the Hot 100 in the US, and became her twelfth gold single there. It was also Summer’s final Top 40 hit on the American pop charts, though she scored two more UK hits from the album, “ I Don’t Wanna Get Hurt ” (UK #7) and “ Love’s About To Change My Heart ” (UK #20).
1990s
In 1990, a new compilation,
The Best of Donna Summer , was released on
Warner Bros. Records . It featured some of Summer’s biggest hits from the 1970s and 1980s. The album achieved Gold status in the UK, where “State of Independence” had been re-released to promote it.
In 1991, Summer released the
new jack swing
style album
Mistaken Identity . It did not sell well, but did contain the #18 R&B hit “When Love Cries”.
In 1993, Polygram Records released an extended greatest hits collection entitled
The Donna Summer Anthology . It included 34 songs, totalling over two and a half hours of music. It not only included songs from the Polygram-owned labels of Casablanca and Mercury, but also material from Atlantic and Geffen Records as well.
In 1994, Summer return with a new album on Mercury/Polygram, a
gospel -influenced Christmas album entitled
Christmas Spirit . It included classic Christmas songs such as “ O Holy Night “, “ Joy To The World “, and “ O Come All Ye Faithful “,and a stiring rendition of Amy Grant’s “ Breath Of Heaven “, as well as some original songs.
Some of Summer’s dance releases including “Carry On” (her first collaboration with Moroder in a decade) and “ Melody of Love (Wanna Be Loved) ” charted on the US Dance Chart, with “Melody of Love” reaching number one on that chart and also reaching number 21 on the UK Singles Chart.
Also in 1994, Polygram would release yet another Summer compilation album entitled “ Endless Summer: Greatest Hits “, containing 18 songs which were mainly the radio versions heard at the time of their release (as opposed to the
Anthology
album the year before which contained many longer versions of the songs).
During this time, Summer was offered a guest role on the sitcom
Family Matters
as Steve Urkel’s ( Jaleel White ) Aunt Oona. She made a second appearance in 1997. In 1998, Summer received a Grammy Award for
Best Dance Recording , being the first to do so, after a remixed version of her 1992 collaboration with Giorgio Moroder, “Carry On”, was released in 1997. In 1999, Summer taped a live television special for
VH1
titled
Donna Summer – Live and More Encore , producing the second highest ratings that year for the network, after their annual
Divas
special. A CD of the event was released by
Epic Records
and featured two studio recordings, “ I Will Go with You (Con te partirò) ” and “ Love Is the Healer ” which reached number one on the Billboard Dance Charts.
2000s
Summer continued to score top ten hits on Billboard’s Dance Chart in the new millennium. In 2000, she also appeared on the third annual
Divas
special, dedicated to
Diana Ross , though Summer sang her own material for the show. In 2004, Summer was inducted to the
Dance Music Hall of Fame
alongside
The Bee Gees
and
Barry Gibb
as an artist. Her classic song, “I Feel Love”, was also inducted that night.
In 2008, Summer released her first studio album of fully original material in 17 years, entitled
Crayons . Released on the
Sony BMG
label
Burgundy Records , it peaked at #17 on the
US Top 200 Album Chart
(her highest placing on the chart since 1983), and achieved modest international success. The songs “ I’m A Fire “, “ Stamp Your Feet “, and “ Fame (The Game) ” reached number one on the US Billboard Dance Chart. The ballad “Sand on My Feet” was released to adult contemporary stations and reached number thirty on that chart. While commenting on the album, Summer said “I wanted this album to have a lot of different directions on it. I did not want it to be any one baby. I just wanted it to be a sampler of flavors and influences from all over the world. There’s a touch of this, a little smidgeon of that, a dash of something else…like when you’re cooking.” On the song “The Queen Is Back”, Summer reveals her wry and witty self-awareness of her musical legacy and her public persona. “I’m making fun of myself,” she admits. “There’s irony, it’s poking fun at the idea of being called a queen. That’s a title that has followed me, followed me, and followed me. We were sitting and writing and that title kept popping up in my mind and I’m thinking, ‘Am I supposed to write this? Is this too arrogant to write?’ But people call me ‘the queen,’ so I guess it’s ok to refer to myself as what everybody else refers to me as. We started writing the song and thought it was kind of cute and funny.” Summer wrote “The Queen Is Back” and “Mr. Music” with
J.R. Rotem
and
Evan Bogart , the son of Casablanca Records founder, Neil Bogart.
On December 11, 2009, Summer performed at the
Nobel Peace Prize Concert
in
Oslo ,
Norway , in honor of United States President
Barack Obama . She was backed by the
Norwegian Radio Orchestra .
2010s
In August 2010, she released the single “To Paris With Love”, co-written with
Bruce Roberts
and produced by Peter Stengaard. In October 2010, the single reached #1 on the US Billboard Dance Chart. Also that month, Summer appeared in the
PBS
Television Special
Hitman Returns: David Foster and Friends . In it, Summer performed with
Seal
on a medley of the songs “ Unbreak My Heart
/
Crazy
/
On the Radio “, before Summer closed the show with “Last Dance”. [11]
On July 29, 2010, Summer gave an interview with allvoices.com where she was asked if she would consider doing an album of standards. She replied:
“I actually am, probably in September. I will begin work on a standards album. I will probably do an all-out dance album and a standards album. I’m gonna do both, and we will release them however were gonna release them. We are not sure which is going first.” [12]
On September 15, 2010, Summer appeared as a guest celebrity singing alongside rising star
Prince Poppycock
on the television show
America’s Got Talent .
On October 16, 2010, she performed at a benefit concert at the
Phoenix Symphony . [13]
On June 6, 2011, Summer was a guest judge on the show,
Platinum Hit
in week two titled, Dance Floor Royalty.
Platinum Hit
is a reality competition series on
Bravo
launched in 2011 in which 12 singer-songwriters compete through innovative songwriting challenges that will test their creativity, patience and drive. Every episode features a different topic from a dance track to a love ballad, that require the contestants to write and perform lyrics from a multiple of genres, for a cash prize of $100,000, a publishing deal with songwriting collective The Writing Camp, and a recording deal with RCA/Jive label.
In July 2011, Summer was working at Paramount Recording Studios in Los Angeles with her nephew, the rapper and producer
O’Mega Red . Together they worked on a track entitled “Angel”.
Personal life
Summer was one of seven children born and raised in Boston’s Dorchester neighborhood, living on the first floor of a
three-decker
home. Following her move to
Austria
in 1971, she met and fell in love with actor Helmuth Sommer while the two were acting in
Godspell . In 1973, the couple married and that year Summer gave birth to her first child, daughter Mimi Sommer. However, the marriage crumbled and by 1975, they had formally divorced. Summer took her husband’s last name, slightly altering the spelling, as her
stage name . After she had divorced from Helmuth, she moved into her Los Angeles house with lover Peter Mühldorfer, who was a respected surrealist painter. As her fame increased, Mühldorfer resented all the press and public attention and it drove a wedge between them. She has stated that he became violent and with the help of Casablanca Records mogul Neil Bogart he was eventually forced to return to Germany after his visa was revoked.
In 1978, while working on the hit track, “ Heaven Knows ” which featured
Brooklyn Dreams
member
Joe “Bean” Esposito
on vocals, Summer met fellow member
Bruce Sudano . Within a few months, Summer and Sudano became an item. The couple married on July 16, 1980. A year later, Summer gave birth to another daughter (her first child with Sudano), Brooklyn, named after Sudano’s group. A year after that, Summer and Sudano had their second child, Amanda.
Summer had often talked about her early successful years as a period of confusion and anxiety. By mid-1977, struggling with the media’s titles of her as
the first lady of love , she began suffering from depression and
anxiety attacks . Summer wrote in her memoirs that she had attempted
suicide
several times. Her rapid rise to success, combined with some serious regrets about mistakes in her personal life, began to take its toll. During this time, she self-medicated on
prescription medication , resulting in an addiction. Following a nervous breakdown at her home in 1979, Summer went to a local church attended with her sister Dara and declared herself a
born again Christian . Summer then decided that from then on, the song that had won her international fame and recognition, “ Love to Love You Baby “, would no longer be performed. A quarter of a century later, however, she began performing the song again live. As recently as 2011, she even rerecorded the track, complete with racy sighs and moans, for the “Loverdose” fragrance advertisement by Diesel.
In 1994, Summer and her family moved from
Los Angeles
to
Nashville
where she took time out from show business to focus on painting, a hobby she began in 1985. In 1995, Summer’s mother died.
Awards and recognition
One NAACP Image Award
One time Juno Award nomination for Best Selling International Single,”I Feel Love”
Three Multi-Platinum albums in the United States
Eleven of her albums went Gold in the United States
Twelve Gold singles
Six American Music Awards
She was the first female African American to receive an MTV Video Music Awards nomination (“Best Female Video” and “Best Choreography” for “She Works Hard For The Money”)
Two Golden Globe Award nominations (one win for “Last Dance” Song and one nominated for “The Deep” John Barry’s Song)
Summer has received five
Grammy Awards . [14]
1979 – Best R&B Vocal Performance (Female),
Last Dance
1980 – Best Rock Vocal Performance (Female),
Hot Stuff
1984 – Best Inspirational Performance,
He’s a Rebel
1985 – Best Inspirational Performance,
Forgive Me
1998 – Best Dance Recording,
Carry On
Twelve Grammy Award nominations (total of seventeen).
1979 – Best Pop Vocal Performance (Female),
MacArthur Park
1980 – Album of the Year,
Bad Girls
1980 – Best Pop Vocal Performance (Female),
Bad Girls
1980 – Best R&B Vocal Performance (Female),
Bad Girls
1980 – Best Disco Recording,
Dim All The Lights
1981 – Best Pop Vocal Performance (Female),
On the Radio
1982 – Best Rock Vocal Performance (Female),
Cold Love
1982 – Best Inspirational Performance,
I Believe in Jesus
1983 – Best Rock Vocal Performance (Female),
Protection
1983 – Best R&B Vocal Performance (Female),
Love is in Control (Finger on the Trigger)
1984 – Best Pop Vocal Performance (Female),
She Works Hard for the Money
2000 – Best Dance Recording,
I Will Go with You (Con te Partiro)
Summer placed a Top Forty hit on the
Billboard
Hot 100
in every year from 1976 (“ Love to Love You Baby “) to 1984 (“ There Goes My Baby “).
Summer was the first artist to score three consecutive number-one double albums.
Summer was twice honored by the
Dance Music Hall of Fame ; once with her induction as a recording artist and again with the induction for her influential single “ I Feel Love “. [15]
Summer’s music career has landed her as the eighth most successful female recording artist in history according to
Billboard [ citation needed ] .
Summer’s career span of
Billboard
number-one Disco/Club Play hits spans from 1975’s “ Love to Love You Baby ” through 2010’s “[To Paris With Love]”.
Summer was nominated for 2010 induction into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame but was not chosen. [16]
Cover versions by other artists
“I Feel Love” has been sampled several times. The song was sampled by
Madonna ,
Whitney Houston ,
Bette Midler ,
Diana Ross ,
Moloko ,
Britney Spears ,
Robbie Williams ,
Darren Hayes ,
Mylo ,
David Guetta ,
Stuart Price , and
Moby
among others. “I Feel Love” was recorded by classical pop musician
Vanessa-Mae
for her 1998 album
Storm . Italian company
Gucci
used a special version of it in the “Flora” perfume advertising, filmed by
Chris Cunningham . “I Feel Love” has been covered onstage by
Madonna , the
Red Hot Chili Peppers ‘
John Frusciante ,
Kylie Minogue ,
Blondie ,
Basement Jaxx , and Finnish progressive rock band
Kingston Wall .
Venus Hum
with
Blue Man Group
also performed this song with Japanese singer
Kumi Koda
for their album
The Complex , and in 2006,
Tracy Bonham
stood in for Hum on the Blue Man Group tour, performing the song.
Bronski Beat
and
Marc Almond
released the track as a duet with an added bridge section and titled it “I Feel Love/Johnny Remember Me”, reaching number 3 in the
UK charts
in April 1985. In 1992 U.K. alterna-pop group
Curve
recorded a version for the
NME ‘s 40th anniversary compilation
Ruby Trax , which became an instant underground classic.
“Love to Love You Baby” was sampled in
Beyoncé Knowles ‘s “Naughty Girl” and by
TLC
on their original version of “I’m Good at Being Bad”, but was removed by request of Summer on later editions. The song has been covered in portions onstage by
Dionne Warwick .
“I Feel Love” was covered by
French Canadian
artist
Jorane
for her 2004 album
The You and the Now . LA based band
Dengue Fever
covered this song on their album
Radio Dance Floor .
Kylie Minogue ‘s team also sampled this for her 2002
KylieFever . Kylie performed “Light Years” which contains elements of “I Feel Love”.
Madonna
combined her song “Future Lovers” from her hit album
Confessions on a Dance Floor
with “I Feel Love” as the opening song on her
Confessions Tour
in 2006.
Summer’s “ Starting Over Again ” was a number one hit on the
Hot Country Songs
chart as a single for
Dolly Parton
in 1980. It also was a top-forty hit for Parton on the
Billboard Hot 100 .
Reba McEntire
named her 1995 album after the song, and McEntire’s version hit no. 17 on the country singles chart in 1996. McEntire stated in the album’s liner notes that her recording of the song was intended as something of a tribute to Summer and Parton, both artists whom she admired.
Summer’s “ On the Radio ” was covered by country artist
Emmylou Harris
for her 1983 album
White Shoes . British singer and actress
Martine McCutcheon
recorded a version that reached number 7 in the
UK charts
in February 2001. An acoustic rendition was released by alt. rock band
Hypnogaja
in January 2010.
Summer’s “ Sunset People ” was covered by
E.G. Daily
on her
Wild Child
album (1985).
Summer’s “ Dim All the Lights ” was a Top 40 Dance hit for
Laura Branigan
in 1995, appearing on her
The Best of Branigan
album.
Summer’s “ Last Dance ” and “On the Radio” were covered by
Tejano / pop
singer
Selena , most famously at one of her last shows at the
Houston Astrodome , on February 26, 1995.
Summer’s “All Through the Night” was covered in 1982 by
KC and The Sunshine Band
on their Painter album, and in 1995 by supermodel
Naomi Campbell
for her album
Baby Woman , featuring
Luther Vandross
on backing vocals.
Summer’s “ Bad Girls ” was recorded by British Jazz and US pop singer
Juliet Roberts
in 1998, and again in 2000 by
Cheryl Chase
for the
Nick
film
Rugrats in Paris: The Movie .
Summer’s “ Love Is in Control ” was covered by pop singer
Sheena Easton
on her 2000 disco album
Fabulous .
In 1985 Dusty Springfield reached number 83 on the UK charts with a cover of “Sometimes like Butterflies”.
Summer’s “ Heaven Knows ” was recorded by
Faith Evans
for inclusion on the soundtrack for the film,
The Fighting Temptations .
Summer’s “ The Woman In Me ” was recorded by
Heart
in the early 1990s.
Summer’s “ She Works Hard For The Money ” was often performed by
Millie Jackson
during her 1980s concerts. “She Works Hard For The Money” was covered by
Kris Allen
during an
American Idol Season 8
episode and recorded by Allen for the American Idol Season 8 CD.
Summer’s “All Through The Night” from the album “Bad Girls”, is recorded by model
Naomi Campbell
in 1994 included in her album “BabyWoman”.
Jeffree Star
covered her song “Bad Girls” for the upcoming movie called “Turn The Beat Around” for MTV.
Monica Naranjo Fuego de pasion “Love’s About To Change My Heart”.
Mexican singer
Lorena Herrera
samples “Try Me ,I Know We Can Make It” in her song Dame Amor from the album Desnudame el Alma.
In 2010,
Keri Hilson
portrayed Summer in her music video for her hit-single,
Pretty Girl Rock .
In 2010 – Rhythm Masters and MYNC Project released a remake of “I Feel Love” on CR2 Records in the UK, with vocals by American Electro/Pop/Dance Artist
Wynter Gordon .
Concert tours
Once Upon A Time Tour
(1977–1978)
Bad Girls Tour
(1979)
The Wanderer Tour
(1981)
Hard For The Money Tour
(1983)
The Rainbow Tour
(1984)
Silver Girl Tour
(1986)
All Systems Go Tour
(1987)
Endless Summer Tour
(1995)
Mid Summer Nights Dream Tour
( 1996–1997)
Live & More Encore Tour
(1999)
Greatest Hits Tour
(2005)
Crayons Tour
(2008)
Discography
Main article:
Donna Summer discography
1974:
Lady of the Night
1975:
Love to Love You Baby
1976:
A Love Trilogy
1976:
Four Seasons of Love
1977:
I Remember Yesterday
1977:
Once Upon a Time
1978:
Live and More
1978:
Thank God It’s Friday (soundtrack)
1979:
Bad Girls
1980:
On the Radio: Greatest Hits Volumes I & II
1980:
The Wanderer
1981:
I’m a Rainbow
1982:
Donna Summer
1983:
She Works Hard for the Money
1984:
Cats Without Claws
1987:
All Systems Go
1989:
Another Place and Time
1991:
Mistaken Identity
1993:
The Donna Summer Anthology
1994:
Christmas Spirit
1994:
Endless Summer: Greatest Hits
1999:
Live & More Encore
2003:
The Journey: The Very Best of Donna Summer
2008:
Crayons
References
^
allmusic ((( Donna Summer > Biography )))
^
‘Nightline’ Playlist: Donna Summer – ABC News . Abcnews.go.com (2008-06-13). Retrieved on 2011-02-22.
^
Donna Summer Tickets – Queen Of Disco . Articlesnatch.com (1948-12-31). Retrieved on 2011-02-22.
^
Oldenburg, Ann (17 May 2012).
“Disco queen Donna Summer dies after cancer battle” .
USA Today . Retrieved 17 May 2012.
^
“Donna Summer” . Retrieved 17 May 2012.
^
“Diva Debacle” .
New Musical Express (NME)
(October 4, 1999). 1999. Retrieved 2011-07-17.
^
Rule, Doug (2010).
“Summer Heat” .
Metro Weekly . Retrieved 2011-07-17.
^
Gay Community Frowns on Disco Diva Donna Summer .
Jet Magazine
(page 38, Sept 18, 1989). 1989. Retrieved 2011-07-17.
^
Groover, D.L. (2008).
“Summer Fans, Some Are Not” .
OutSmart magazine . Retrieved 2008-07-14.
^
Ottawa XPress – Music – Donna Summer . Ottawaxpress.ca. Retrieved on 2011-02-22.
^
Donna Summer . Donna Summer. Retrieved on 2011-02-22.
^
“Donna Summer Exclusive Interview: Bringing her Summer tour to Hard Rock Live”
(29 July 2010). AllVoices.com. Retrieved 25 August 2010.
^
“Phoenix Symphony Goes Back to the Days of Disco” . Myfoxphoenix.com. 2010-10-16. Retrieved 2011-04-04.
Tags:
donna ,
summer
This entry was posted
on Thursday, May 17th, 2012 at 13:17 and is filed under
Le Point / fil de presse international . You can follow any responses to this entry through the
RSS 2.0
feed. Both comments and pings are currently closed.
Comments are closed.
Comments
No comments so far !
© 2015
LE POINT - Le fil de presse du Groupe National / Newswire
-
Entries (RSS)
-
Comments (RSS)
-
Log in
Theme design by
Christian Gnoth
-