Dengue Mosquito Repellent - Repelente para Mosquito da Dengue
let's make
Explore
Publish
Login
Login
Sign Up
share what you make >
Featured:
Intel IoT
Kitchen & Bath
LinkIt ONE
With Instructables you can share what you make with the world, and tap into an ever-growing community of creative experts.
How it Works
»
New Instructable
»
Dengue Mosquito Repellent - Repelente para Mosquito da Dengue
by
teodoropires
Download
4 Steps
Flag As:
Wrong Category
Inappropriate
Incomplete
Spam
Share
Favorite
I Made it!
Collection
Intro
Intro: Dengue Mosquito Repellent - Repelente para Mosquito da Dengue
Dengue Fever or Dengue is an infectious disease caused by dengue virus is generally transmitted by the mosquito Aedes aegypti . This instructable will show you how to ...
1
Step 1: Ingredients - Ingredientes
1/2 liter of alcohol; 10g of clove (Syzygium aromaticum, Eugenia aromaticum or Eugenia caryophyllata); 50 ml of aromatic oil (mineral, almond, chamomile, fennel, aloe vera); 1/2 litro de ...
2
Step 2: How to Prepare - Como Preparar
Place the package of cloves in the alcohol and leave for four days Shake it in the morning and evening; After four days, put the oil (see picture ...
3
Step 3: How to use - Como usar
Always shake before use. Just a single drop for each part of the body .Spread in the arms and legs and mosquito stay away from you. Sempre agite ...
4
Step 4: Additional Notes - Comentarios Adicionais
The cloves keep ants away from kitchen and electronic; The repellent keeps mosquitoes suck blood, so it’s unable to mature eggs and interfere with posture, decreasing proliferation; The ...
Show All
Items
Dengue Fever
or Dengue is an infectious disease caused by dengue virus is generally transmitted by the mosquito
Aedes aegypti
.
This instructable will show you how to do a very easy, natural inexpensive repellent and very effective against the mosquito dengue and other mosquitoes.
The information contained herein has been taken from a recipe of Ioshiko Nobukuni, which does a great job of spreading it in Brazil and has helped a lot and especially the low income population in fighting dengue.
Febre da Dengue
ou simplesmente
Dengue
é uma doença infecciosa causada pelo vírus da Dengue que geralmente é transmitido pelo mosquito
Aedes aegypti
.
Este instructable vai mostrar como fazer de modo muito fácil um repelente natural de baixo custo e muito eficiente contra o mosquito da dengue e outros mosquitos.
As informações aqui contidas foram retiradas de uma receita da Ioshiko Nobukuni, que faz um grande trabalho de divulgação no Brasil e tem ajudado muito e em especial à população de baixa renda no combate da dengue.
Step 1: Ingredients - Ingredientes
Show All
Items
1/2 liter of alcohol;
10g of clove (Syzygium aromaticum, Eugenia aromaticum or Eugenia caryophyllata);
50 ml of aromatic oil (mineral, almond, chamomile, fennel, aloe vera);
1/2 litro de álcool;
10g de cravo da Índia (Syzygium aromaticum, Eugenia aromaticum ou Eugenia caryophyllata);
50 ml de óleo aromático (mineral, amêndoas, camomila, erva-doce, aloe vera);
« Previous
Next »
View All Steps
Download
The best way to protect your self from Dengue and Chikgunya is eliminate where they breed . Aedes Aegypti and Aedes Albopictus are container breeding Mosquitos with a fairly short flight range . Dump all your containers , bird baths , rain buckets , tires, the bottom of plant potters ect .. If you are collecting rain water for your plants cover them with a screen
<p>Hi smooney2,</p><p>Thanks for the comment.</p><p>I completely agree with that, but, sometimes your neighbor do, other time don't.</p>
<p>HI Teodoropires.... Chikgunya has reached the states. there has been over 500,000 cases in Caribean and South Americas. if your neighbors are not dumping or willing to dump there containers i would call code inforcement ASAP. most cases in Florida have been imported cases where people are going on trips to the Caribean, there has only been a few cases of locally acquired Chik V. All it takes is for someone going on a cruise get bit there and come home and have a neighbor with containers or a bunch of flower pots with water, breeding mosquitos and the next thing you know everyone within
there flight range could be infected .</p>
which alcohol to be used?
The best to use is Ethanol.
<br>http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ethanol.
<br>This brand made it from sugarcane and is
98GL.
I bought a brand shoes. Cheap and beautiful. In beautyclpumps.com
I bought a brand shoes. Cheap and beautiful. In beautyclpumps.com
More Comments
About This Instructable
20,064
views
19
favorites
License:
Public Domain
teodoropires
Follow
6
More by teodoropires:
Tags:
dengue
mosquito
repellent
Add instructable to:
Contest
Group
Related
DIY Rechargeable Electronic Mosquito Repeller by
DangerousTim
Organic Insect Repellent by
icecreamterror
Natural Insects and mosquito repellent less than $1 by
Crazynventor
how to repel mosquitos and nats with house hold products by
pianolover10124353
using papaya as a multipurpose home made remidies by
prateek0927
FEATURED CHANNELS
Intel IoT
Beauty
Kitchen & Bath
Parties
LinkIt ONE
Laser Cut
Breakfast
Arduino
Halloween
Newsletter Join 2 million + to receive instant inspiration in
your inbox. I'm in! Mobile Download our apps! Android » iOS » Windows » About Us Who We Are Advertise Contact Jobs Help Find Us Facebook Youtube Twitter Pinterest Google+ Tumblr Resources For Teachers Artists in Residence Gift Pro Account Forums Answers Sitemap Terms of Service | Privacy Statement | Legal Notices & Trademarks | Mobile Site © 2015 Autodesk, Inc.
x
login
Facebook
Google+
Twitter
Autodesk
OR
Login
Sign Up »
Forgot Username/Password »
x
forgot?
Forgot your username or password?
It happens.
Enter the email associated with your account and we will send you your username and a temporary password.
Send it now, please!
Not a member?
Sign Up »
x
reset password
We have sent you an email with a password reset code. Please enter it below.
Reset and Sign In
Not a member?
Sign Up »
x
go pro
that's a pro feature! want to go pro?
I want to go pro!
No thanks
Already a member?
Login »
x
go pro
That's a pro feature!
Want to go pro?
First step is to sign up.
Facebook
Google+
Twitter
Autodesk
OR
By clicking "Sign me up!" you are indicating that you have read and agree to the
Terms of service.
Sign me up!
Already a member?"
Login »