WHO Declares Dengue a Major Health Threat | Biomartasia's Blog
Biomartasia's Blog
Making herbs work for the beautiful you, your face, your skin, your body and even your hair….
Skip to content
Visit our website
Home
About Us
Blogs
←
More info on Body Wash with Guava
2011 Summer is officially here!!!
→
WHO Declares Dengue a Major Health Threat
Posted on
November 24, 2010
by
biomartasia
The
World Health Organization (WHO)
has warned that dengue has developed into a major threat to global public health.  It would get worser if countries do not act now to strengthen their response.
“National resources need to be mobilized to sustain dengue prevention and control, and the disease’s profile needs to be raised on the global health agenda to stimulate the interest of international agencies and donors,” WHO regional director for the Western Pacific, Dr Shin Young-soo, said at a meeting in Putrajaya, Malaysia.
Speaking at the annual meeting here of WHO’s Regional Committee for the Western Pacific, Shin called on governments to display strong leadership and commitment, greater advocacy and investment, and better clinical management of cases. Regional collaboration was also vital, he said.
Overall, the number of cases in the Western Pacific Region has more than doubled over the past 10 years. Many countries have experienced a significant increase in cases this year, with the Lao People’s Democratic Republic and the
Philippines
particularly badly hit, he said.
Shin said that of the about 2.5 billion people at risk of dengue globally, about 1.8 billion or more than 70 percent live in Asia Pacific countries.
He attributed the growing threat of the disease to the higher temperatures and rainfall in many parts of the region this year, encouraging mosquito breeding; growing population densities; greater international travel by infected people and higher awareness levels and better surveillance systems in some countries.
While there was as yet no clear evidence that the increase in cases was due to global warming, climatic changes play an important role in the nature of mosquitoes, including the aedes aegypti, which is responsible for the spread of dengue.
Dr Hans Troedsson, Western Pacific Region’s director for Program Management, underlined the need for governments to take a broad approach to the problem, involving urban planning, and sanitation and environment. “This is not just a health problem. This is an inter-sectoral problem,” Hans said.
At the community level, elimination of mosquito breeding sites, such as water jars, building sites and discarded garbage, is essential. “The fight against this disease is everybody’s problem,” Shin said.
Although considerable efforts have been made to strengthen national dengue prevention and control programs since the endorsement of WHO’s
Dengue
Strategic Plan for the Asia Pacific Region (2008-2015), countries need to keep pace with the rapidly changing incidence and distribution of the disease, WHO said.
Share this: Facebook Twitter Email Print Like this: Like
Loading...
Related
This entry was posted in
Dengue and Herbs
and tagged
Dengue fever ,
Philippines . Bookmark the
permalink .
←
More info on Body Wash with Guava
2011 Summer is officially here!!!
→
One Response to
WHO Declares Dengue a Major Health Threat
bea23
says:
April 28, 2011 at 10:44 am
The use of insect repellents can help control and prevent outbreaks of insect-borne diseases. Many insects carry and spread diseases such as Lyme disease, and bubonic plague. Natural, organic insect repellents that do not contain harmful synthetic ingredients are available, and are just as effective.
Reply
Leave a Reply
Cancel reply
Enter your comment here...
Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:
Email
(required)
(Address never made public)
Name
(required)
Website
You are commenting using your WordPress.com account.
(  Log Out  /  Change  )
You are commenting using your Twitter account.
(  Log Out  /  Change  )
You are commenting using your Facebook account.
(  Log Out  /  Change  )
You are commenting using your Google+ account.
(  Log Out  /  Change  )
Cancel
Connecting to %s
Notify me of new comments via email.
Categories
Blogs
Dengue and Herbs
Prevent the Deadly Dengue Fever by using Herbs
Difference of Biomart.org from Biomartonline.com
DOH-FDA Bulletins
Natural Organic Herbal Products
Cancer Prevention and Fruits
Protection for Your Family This Summer
Home
Recent posts
Warning on Skin Whiteners
DOH-FDA Warnings
Summer time is finally over; Dengue-watch is on
The Miracle Tree:
Moringa or Malunggay
Free Month-long Anti-Measles drive is on
Email Subscription
Enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Join 13 other followers
Meta
Register
Log in
Entries
RSS
Comments
RSS
WordPress.com
Twitter Updates
fire alert:
tayuman cor. oroquieta st., sta. cruz, manila, residential/commercial, fire under control 14:20....ty sa 78... 				 3 years ago
fire alert:
tayuman cor. oroquieta st., sta. cruz, manila, residential, fire under control 14:20...ty sa 78...@ txtfire
3 years ago
fire alert: tayuman cor. oroqueta st., sta. cruz, manila, residential, 3rd alarm, 14:10 @ txtfire
3 years ago
Follow @biomartonline
NetworkedBlogs
Blog:
Biomartasia's Blog
Topics:
beauty ,
herbs
Follow my blog
Biomartasia's Blog
The Twenty Ten Theme .				 Create a free website or blog at WordPress.com .
Follow
Follow “Biomartasia's Blog”
Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.
Build a website with WordPress.com
Send to Email Address
Your Name
Your Email Address
Cancel
Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
%d
bloggers like this: