need no followers: PAIN IN THE ASS
need no followers
i dig my shindig
Saturday, August 21, 2010
PAIN IN THE ASS
so this is where I'll be staying for the upcoming days, Makati Medical Center. I just hope the counted days are lessened. Due to my father's
Dengue Fever
(click link for full explanation), i am now burying myself to the alcholish smell of the hospital. I just hate entering hospitals. It makes me feel like I'm sick too :( But i don't have any choice, even though this may seem to be a big pain in the ass, i don't really have a choice. I need to be with my dad for 2 simple reasons 1) I LOVE HIM 2) IM DOOMED if ever im leaving him here, ALONE.
Enough of the not so good topics. Last night,we watched
Blunt Concept 's Asia Tour in Obsidian Bar, located in Home Depot, Ortigas, Pasig City. The gig was scheduled 9pm, but really, gigs always start later than their said time. But last night was way way way beyond their starting time. It started at almost 11:30, because the other bands had to wait for the first band's frontman, which was clearly pathetic because the he should stick it up in his ass that not the whole world will gladly wait for him. Well, we had overflowing drinks. Only, i had to let go of 40php first, to savor my thirsty-ness for alcohol, then had to let go of 200 for another bucket for the group (we take turns! HAH!) We were like so so so so so "SABAW" because me and my fiend Sab, got to drink earlier at our friend's house. So it only took how many bottles for us before we felt, STUPID! HAH! The gig ended at 2:30, and followed by another 2 buckets of beer care of Ayi Ayque (the changed man) It was fun, and we got to go home with them boys (Ayi, Mon, Ross) and took a quick take out trip in Mcdo and ate our breakfast meals in the apartment. Then finally, WE WENT HOME. zzzzzz. and now, still no sleep.
Posted by
dipsotenenbaum
at
10:32 PM
No comments:
Post a Comment
Newer Post
Older Post
Home
Subscribe to:
Post Comments (Atom)
Followers
Blog Archive
▼
2010
(29)
►
October
(2)
►
September
(2)
▼
August
(15)
Ellen Page is.
a reality check, for the good chums
WHAT'S INSIDE
MICKJAGGER!
watch your friggin language, again.
watch your language
after 34 years.
de dipsotenenbaum says:
doomsville
ALMIGHTY GOD, THANK YOU.
Saturday Night Wrist!
PAIN IN THE ASS
WEDNESDAY CLUB
An American Crime
it's been blah months
►
June
(10)
About Me
dipsotenenbaum
i speak fluent sarcasm
View my complete profile
Simple template. Powered by
Blogger .