We're All Gonna Die: The Infectious Pandemics of Summer 2012
Follow Following Log in / Sign up Follow Jezebel Following Jezebel Related blogs kitchenette Millihelen ROYGBIV That's What She Said The Muse I Thee Dread Pictorial Flygirl Blogs you may like Deadspin Gawker Gizmodo io9 Jalopnik Jezebel Kotaku Lifehacker Sploid You can skip this ad in 5 seconds. We're All Gonna Die: The Infectious Pandemics of Summer 2012 2 Lindy West Filed to:
Apocalypse Now Health West nile virus Mosquitoes Death Disease infection Dengue Fever measles Legionnaires Disease pertussis Whooping Cough Necrotizing fasciitis flesh-eating bacteria syphilis ebola pig flu swine influenza Cholera Top Fb shutterstock 8/28/12 5:00pm Edit Delete Invite manually Promote Dismiss Undismiss Block for jezebel Hide Share to Kinja Go to permalink
Dude! What a shitty garbage year this has been. I mean, pretty much every year in the history of years has been a shitty garbage year — "happiness" is really just a euphemism for "successful garbage mitigation" — but 2012 has been particularly gross in a lot of ways. Half the country thinks
rape is hilarious . Republicans
aren't so sure it exists . People are
eating other people . The only place that isn't suffering a horrible drought is bracing for a horrible hurricane.
All the other terrifying stuff Republicans think . And Phyllis Diller died!
How to Make a Rape Joke
How to Make a Rape Joke
How to Make a Rape Joke
Hello, precious flowers. I know it's been a difficult couple days for all of us, what with…
Read more
Read more
But that's okay, because nature's picking up the slack to put us out of our misery. Heads up: you're about to die of hella diseases.* Here a guide to the bugs currently breakin' out all over.
Dengue Fever
a.k.a. Breakbone Fever a.k.a. "NO THANKS."
Advertisement
Symptoms include fever, headache, muscle and joint pains, and a characteristic skin rash that is similar to measles. In a small proportion of cases the disease develops into the life-threatening dengue hemorrhagic fever, resulting in bleeding, low levels of blood platelets and blood plasma leakage, or into dengue shock syndrome, where dangerously low blood pressure occurs.
Transmitted through : Mosquitoes a.k.a. nature's Republicans (JK, guys!!!**).
Where :
The Texas/Mexico border around El Paso-Juarez .
Prevention tips : Wear bug spray, avoid Texas, don't wallow in pools of fetid standing water.
Sponsored
Measles
a.k.a. Morbilli, a.k.a. "They Still Have That?"
Symptoms include fever, cough, runny nose, red eyes and a generalized, maculopapular, erythematous rash.
Transmitted through : Coughing, sneezing, Frenching.
Where :
Everywhere except America . FOR NOW.
Prevention tips : Don't eat other people's secretions, wash your hands, vaccinate your fucking kids.
Legionnaires' Disease
a.k.a. Legionellosis a.k.a. "Way Less Glamorous Than It Sounds."
Transmitted through :
Legionella
bacteria, usually airborne and aerosolized in poorly ventilated areas.
Where :
Illinois .
Prevention tips : Stay out of slimy hot tubs, stagnant ponds, industrial cooling towers, humid prisons, and, apparently, the JW Marriott Chicago Hotel (for the record, the Chicago Department of Public Health says they've got the problem all cleared up).
Whooping Cough
a.k.a. Pertussis a.k.a. "Vaccinate Your Fucking Kids."
The classic signs of pertussis are a paroxysmal cough, inspiratory whoop, and vomiting after coughing.[5] The cough from pertussis has been documented to cause subconjunctival hemorrhages, rib fractures, urinary incontinence, hernias, post-cough fainting, and vertebral artery dissection.
Transmitted through : Not vaccinating your fucking kids.
Where :
Washington state .
Prevention tips : VACCINATE YOUR FUCKING KIDS.
West Nile Virus
a.k.a. "Seriously, Fuck Mosquitoes."
Symptoms may include may fever, headaches, fatigue, muscle pain or aches, malaise, nausea, anorexia, vomiting, myalgias and rash. The most severe cases result in neurologic disease when the central nervous system is affected.
Transmitted through : Mosquitoes, AGAIN.
Where :
Texas, Mississippi, Louisiana, South Dakota and Oklahoma .
Prevention tips : I don't know. Some sort of
Bubble Boy
situation? Some sort of Bubble Boy situation is the
only way .
Flesh-Eating Bacteria
a.k.a. Necrotizing Fasciitis a.k.a. HORK HORK HOOOOORK.
Transmitted through : Getting bacteria in your flesh.
Where :
Oh, all over the place .
Prevention tips : Don't cut yourself on gross shit. Also, take
all
your antibiotics until they are gone, even if your flesh seems like it's all cool.
Syphilis
a.k.a. The Great Pox a.k.a. "The Hitler-Maker."
The primary stage classically presents with a single chancre (a firm, painless, non-itchy skin ulceration), secondary syphilis with a diffuse rash which frequently involves the palms of the hands and soles of the feet, latent syphilis with little to no symptoms, and tertiary syphilis with gummas, neurological, or cardiac symptoms. It has, however, been known as "the great imitator" due to its frequent atypical presentations.
Transmitted through : Come on, guys. We're all grown-ups here.
Where :
California, Canada .
Prevention tips : Condoms, STI screenings, don't have sex with
this guy .
Porn Star Mr. Marcus Apologizes for Hiding His Syphilis Infection
Porn Star Mr. Marcus Apologizes for Hiding His Syphilis Infection
Porn Star Mr. Marcus Apologizes for Hiding His Syp
Last week, news of a syphilis outbreak in the adult film industry made headlines. Soon after, porn…
Read more
Read more
Ebola
a.k.a. Ebola Hemorrhagic Fever a.k.a. "Dustin Hoffman's Lament."
EVD begins with a sudden onset of an influenza-like stage characterized by general malaise, fever with chills, arthralgia and myalgia, and chest pain. Nausea is accompanied by abdominal pain, anorexia, diarrhea, and vomiting...Contrary to popular belief, hemorrhage does not lead to hypovolemia and is not the cause of death (total blood loss is low except during labor). Instead, death occurs due to multiple organ dysfunction syndrome.
Transmitted through : Bat bites! (Maybe.) Touching infected animals, living or dead. Contact with infected human secretions.
Monkey-smuggling .
Where :
Western Uganda .
Prevention tips : Um...wash your hands? Run from bats. If you're not currently in Western Uganda, don't travel to Western Uganda. Or, if you do, wash your hands.
Pig Flu
a.k.a. Swine Influenza Virus a.k.a. "Aporkalypse Now."
Symptoms of zoonotic swine flu in humans are similar to those of influenza and of influenza-like illness in general, namely chills, fever, sore throat, muscle pains, severe headache, coughing, weakness and general discomfort.
Transmitted through : Pigs.
Where :
Ohio .
Oh Great, Swine Flu Is Back!
Oh Great, Swine Flu Is Back!
Oh Great, Swine Flu Is Back!
The CDC has been tracking a new strain of pig flu linked to state and county fairs. Concerned…
Read more
Read more
Prevention tips : Wash your hands, quit huffing hog fumes, don't eat your funnel cake in the livestock barn.
Cholera
a.k.a. "The Blue Death" a.k.a. "Plague in the Guts" a.k.a. "Cholera? I Just Met-'er! Uh."
The primary symptoms of cholera are profuse, painless diarrhea and vomiting of clear fluid. These symptoms usually start suddenly, one to five days after ingestion of the bacteria. The diarrhea is frequently described as "rice water" in nature and may have a fishy odor. An untreated person with cholera may produce 10–20 litres of diarrhea a day with fatal results.
Transmitted through : Poop. Poop in your food, poop in your water, poop in your mouth.
Where :
Cuba , where 417 have been infected and 3 have died.
Prevention tips : If you're in a place with questionable sewage management and water quality, sterilize all your water. Also there's a vaccine. Also you could support international aid agencies that provide water purification systems in developing countries! Seeing as it's completely embarrassing that poopwater is still a major problem in a world where we have iPads.
Antibiotic-Resistant " Superbugs " a.k.a. "Really Funny Clark Kent Pun That I Failed to Come Up With in Time for My Deadline" a.k.a. "Mother Brain."
Transmitted through : ???????
Where :
?????????????
Prevention tips : ?????????????????????????
Prognosis : WE'RE ALL GONNA DIE. Oh well. What else is new.
*
Obviously we know that diseases are happening everywhere all the time. But all these health notices on top of all of 2012's other bullshit has pushed us past our grimness tipping point.
**
NK. 2 214 Reply Leave a reply
Popular
from all blogs Foxtrot Alpha
· Tyler Rogoway Hear This Intense Declassified Recording Of F-14s Shooting Down Libyan MiG-23s  Yesterday 5:50pm Morning After
· Rich Juzwiak Leah Remini Discusses Her Once-Fellow Scientologist Tom Cruise's Bizarre Offstage Behavior  Yesterday 11:28pm Steamed
· Nathan Grayson Undertale : The
Kotaku
Review Yesterday 8:15pm Recent
from
Lindy West 212 318 72.9K Jezebel
· Lindy West My Fart Will Go On 9/05/14 6:15pm 14 86 33.9K Jezebel
· Lindy West Golden Retriever Loves Watching Football SO FUCKING MUCH OH MY GOD 9/05/14 4:50pm 12 201 85K Jezebel
· Lindy West Scarlett Johansson Gave Birth 9/04/14 8:00pm 214 2
About Blog Need Help? Content Guide Permissions Privacy Terms of Use Advertising Jobs RSS
Kinja is in read-only mode. We are working to restore service.