American Pest Control, Inc.: May 2012
American Pest Control, Inc.
Family owned business celebrating over 40 years of service in NE Georgia with responsible and reliable pest and termite control. Just say no to bugs!
Home
May 2012
May 30, 2012
Travel Tips: Bed Bug Prevention
Check out this
MSNBC
Special featuring bed bug travel tips
Summer is almost here and that means travel season for many American families. As we have
previously posted , bed bugs are back with vengeance in America affecting
millions of people. Bed bug infestations are
very difficult and costly to treat, making them one of the most hated pests around.
Infestations can be
caused by bringing bed bugs home while traveling, including hotels, condos and more. And bed bugs don't have a preference for lower quality hotels, they were even found in the NYC
Ritz-Carlton
earlier this year.  So here's a few tips to keep these blood suckers from hitching a ride home on
your next vacation.
1. Check Upon Arrival
When you arrive to your hotel
room doing a quick check for bed bugs could help stop the problem
before it begins. Be sure to check the seams of the mattress and around the headboard for signs of bed bugs. You should look for tiny black dots or blood upon the walls or within the seams of mattresses. Be sure to pull the fitted sheet back and check mattress tags. Also, if possible, look behind the head board for signs of bed bugs.
It's also a good idea to check behind beside tables and along the crevices where the floor meets the wall. Bed bugs are very tiny so they can be easily hidden. To be extra cautious some even advise bringing a small flashlight to be able to see them better. If you find signs of bed bugs alert the management immediately and they will move you to a new room or suite.
2. Protect Your Belongings
Do NOT place your luggage on the floor. Use a
luggage rack or place luggage on a dresser. Avoid putting luggage on upholstered furniture. By elevating your bags it helps to keep bed bugs from getting into your belonging and coming home with you. Some even advise to keep your clean laundry in plastic bags within your luggage for more protection.
3. Departure
When preparing to leave be sure to inspect your luggage very carefully for signs of bed bugs. Check each piece of clothing individually. Wash all of your belongings at a high temperature and dry for at least 20 minutes to ensure that any bed bugs are killed.
4. Everyday Protection
Considering bed bugs can be found anywhere from libraries to clothing stores it might be a good investment to purchase a bed bug mattress encasement. Most
pest control companies
that service for bed bugs can offer these encasement that will protect from bed bugs and keep your mattress safe in case of infestation.
5. If You Have a Bed Bug Infestation
Sometimes even the toughest bed bug prevention doesn't keep these pests from infesting your home. Be sure to call a
licensed pest management professional
to come treat for bed bugs. There have been many
reports of DIY bed bug removal gone terribly wrong , especially dealing with certain chemicals. Typically heat treatments are used to eradicate bed bugs and it is best to leave the job to a professional.
May 30, 2012 2:06:50 PM
Comment
12
Reblog It
0
May 17, 2012
The Buzz on Mosquito Prevention
David Cappaert, Michigan State University, Bugwood.org
As we
reported
earlier this year, a warm spring and recent rain has brought out the mosquitoes in the Northeast Georgia area, causing concern for their abundance this year. These biting pests are a concern because of the threat of the diseases that they can carry, including West Nile Virus, Malaria, and
Dengue Fever . Mosquitoes are a known threat to Georgia, but can be prevented by staying vigilant and knowing a few prevention tips.
What conditions attract mosquitoes?
Tall grass and bushes along with standing water attracts mosquitoes to your yard. Mosquitoes must breed in water so any standing water around your home will attract them to your home. Also, adult mosquitoes live within the cover of vegetation so any overgrown grass or shrubs can attract them.
What attracts mosquitoes to an individual person?
Recent research
from the University of California, Riverside has shown that how much carbon dioxide a person releases can be linked to how mosquitoes are attracted to them. Mosquitoes have carbon dioxide sensors that allow them to track and find a host up to 50 meters away. Additionally certain skin odors cause mosquitoes to be attracted more to certain individuals along with the amount of certain acids and build up on your skin. Check out this
WebMD article
for more information on skin attractors.
How can I prevent mosquitoes?
Around Your Home:
Making your home and yard inhabitable for mosquitoes helps to keep them
from
becoming a problem. First remove all standing water and
objects that can collect standing water from your home, including
buckets, tires, cans, drums. If these objects must stay in place empty
them of water at least once a week.  Change the water in bird baths and
dog bowls every 3-4 days. It only takes a little water for mosquitoes to
breed so constantly keep an eye out for them. Also, check to make sure
gutters are clear of debris that could cause blockages and water
build-up. Repair leaky faucets to prevent a water source from being
available for mosquitoes. Keep grass and bushed cut short so adult
mosquitoes will not live in the area. Also, check screens on doors and windows for any tears and that they fit properly. If you continue to have problems with mosquitoes consider establishing a
mosquito prevention plan
with a professional pest management company.
On Your Person:
When outside be sure to wear a repellent that includes DEET. If you prefer natural repellent look for ones that are soybean oil-based.
Scientific studies
have shown that soybean oil-based repellent works longer than other natural options like lemongrass, citronella, cedar, or peppermint. Try to stay indoors during peak mosquito hours in the evening and if you must go outdoors try to wear long sleeves. Because mosquitoes are attracted to carbon dioxide, try not to do strenuous activities during peak times. The increased breathing (carbon dioxide) will help to attract mosquitoes to your location. Additionally, mosquitoes are attracted to movement so keeping your activity down will help too.
Check out this video from
WCBD Charleston
for more tips and info to keep your family safe from mosquitoes.
May 17, 2012 12:48:13 PM
|
Science
Comment
0
Reblog It
0
May 08, 2012
Quick Questions About Professional Lawn Care Programs
with Billy Marett
1. Why does someone need a lawn care program?
The benefits of having a lawn care program allow the homeowner to turn over their lawn care to professionals that can utilize products that are more effective than standard DIY products from home improvement stores. Unless you have an extreme green thumb and love to maintain your lawn, the convenience factor is a major plus. Instead of a client giving up their time on the weekends to fertilizing their lawn, we can take over the responsibility.
2. What are the benefits of having a lawn care program?
Proper timing for fertilization, weed, insect and disease control are essential to the success of a healthy green lawn. All of which are handled through a professional lawn care program. Another key factor that allows our programs to work more effectively is the utilization of proper application rates so as not to overwhelm the turf grass. In other words, we have the knowledge and ability to make the best plan for a client's yard that a do-it-yourself person may not. Also we take care of all the products so that unused fertilizers, herbicides, etc. aren't left lying around the home.
3. Why would someone choose professional lawn care service over a DIY application?
Most
do-it-yourself lawn care programs can be effective to a certain point
but are not nearly as effective because of the lack of knowledge and the
products available to a professional. There are certain lawn diseases,
fungi and pests that an untrained eye would not necessarily recognize.
And typically, while not seen at first, hiring a professional may come
out cheaper in the end. Considering how much product that is wasted and
thrown away at seasons end. Also, the time that is put into learning
about their specific lawn needs and the time to actually apply product.
Also, many at-home lawn care programs don't know the proper calibration
for fertilizer to square-footage and end up overwintering their yard and
hurting the grass.
4.  So lawn care programs also take care of pests found in the yard?
Yes, our products that we use effectively eliminate and maintain an insect-free lawn. However, there are certain insects that require multiple treatments before they are completely controlled.
5. Will my lawn be completely weed, insect and disease free?
While most lawn care professionals strive to eliminate all problem areas in their client's lawns, there is no lawn service that can be guaranteed 100%.  Our lawn care division uses the very best products that we feel can greatly reduce the overall population of weeds, insects and diseases to the point of not being visibly noticeable or damaging.
American Pest Control's Lawn Care Technician, Elliot, servicing a client's yard outside of Athens, GA with our Green Program.
The difference between American Pest Control's Green Program that utilizes Holganix versus a standard NPK lawn care program.
-----------------
Billy Marett, holds a horticulture degree with an emphasis in turf grass from the University of Mississippi and Abraham Baldwin Agriculture College (ABAC). He is currently the Lawn Care Specialist at
American Pest Control' s new Lawn Care and Pest Management Division.
May 8, 2012 12:13:09 PM
|
Science
Comment
10
Reblog It
0
May 02, 2012
Termites are Swarming!
A photo taken by an American Pest Control Technician of a client's crawl space,covered with termite swarmers.
Swarmer Season is here!
This week the termite swarmers are definitely out in Northeast Georgia and our phones have been ringing off the hook. With the mild winter we experienced along with warm temperatures, termites are out earlier than usual this year. While termites can be a frightening discovery for a homeowner, with proper knowledge and pest management one can keep termites from destroying their property.
What are Termite Swarmers?
Termite swarmers, or flying termites are matured male and female termites that swarm to find a mate and start a new colony. Typically a swarm of flying termites is the first sign of infestation, but sometimes it's just termites that have flown from a neighboring colony.  Also, once flying termites mate and start a new colony it will take some time (years) before the new colony can cause substantial damage.
When do Swarmers Arrive?
Typically flying termites swarms appear between early May and June, depending on the rainy season that year.
What to do if a Termite Swarm is on your property?
While seeing termite swarms doesn't necessarily mean that you have a termite infestation it is a reminder to have your property inspected by a
pest management professional.
Flying termites can't travel very far, therefore signifying that there has to be an active colony nearby.
What's the difference between a flying termite and a flying ant?
Many of the calls we have been receiving this week about termite swarmers actually have turned out to be flying ants. To tell the difference inspect the wing length and size, the body shape and the antenna shape of the pest.
USDA Forest Service Archive, USDA Forest Service, Bugwood.org
Flying Termites vs. Flying Ants
Termite have longer and equal length wings, while ants are uneven and shorter.
Termites have a straight abdomen, while the abdomen of an ant is thin.
Termites have straight antennae, while ants have bent antennae.
How can I protect my property from Termites?
Establishing
a termite protection plan with a pest control company can help ensure
that your home is protected from this wood-eating pests. Most pest management companies offer termite protection in the form of a
baiting system
with devices installed in the ground around the structure or yearly barrier and crawl space sprays to target potential problem areas.  Also, yearly
inspections of you home and crawl space are key to the prevention of
termite infestations.
Here are some tips to protect your home from future termite infestation and damage:
Remove dirt, mulch and debris from around the home, making sure it does not touch the structure.
Store wood away from the home and off of the ground.
Insulate the crawl space to prevent high humidity, which attracts termites.
Fix leaks and pipes to prevent moisture on wood.
May 2, 2012 11:17:47 AM
|
Current Affairs ,
Science
Comment
10
Reblog It
0
Ampest.com
American Pest Control is one of the largest family-owned pest control companies in Georgia. Since 1971 we service homes for mice, insects, termites, fire ants, mosquitoes, moisture, pre-construction treatments, letters for real estate closings.
1
Following
13
Followers
Search
My Other Accounts
Twitter
|
American_Pest
YouTube
|
AmpestControl
Recent Comments
Avery Schlacter:
Thanks for sharing this with me. I think this c...
|
more »
On
Enter our APC Christmas Coloring Contest!
pestcontrolnj14:
Pest Control NJ Pest Control Bergen NJ Pest Man...
|
more »
On
Fall Is Here and Wildlife Is Coming
Ampest.com:
David,
And were here to keep them out. :)...
|
more »
On
Fall Is Here and Wildlife Is Coming
Subscribe to this blog's feed
Powered by Typepad