Dena's Journey Blog | a journey in His service
Dena's Journey Blog
About
Bare Necessities
a journey in His service
CORRECTION
April 10, 2012
Funny how much difference one letter can make.   In the title of my last post I got the address correct but in the article link I left out a letter.  The correct link is
www.denamoore.com
So sorry for any confusion!
Category:
Uncategorized
Leave a comment
www.denamoore.com
April 2, 2012
It has been almost a month since my last post.  When I have stretches like this when I do not write a  post I find it difficult to return to writing.  I have so many thoughts swirling through my head that I have difficulty sorting through them and choosing a thought that is short enough to put in a post yet has an interesting catch.  Then there is the choice of which story to start the ball rolling.  I have not been absent just ultra busy and sometimes writing just has to take a back seat.
I just finished my newsletter and updating the brand new website with my name.  Go to
www.denmoore.com
to find all future posts for this blog or cooking with bare necessities.  On my website you will find more information on me and this ministry.  You will be able to view the latest newsletter, blogs and any other updates.  You will have access to my bio and resume there.
So with the Easter Holiday so close I think the next few posts will certainly have to be about the resurrection of our Lord and Savior.  To read those over the next few days visit my website at the link above.
Category:
Christian ,
ramblings
Leave a comment
where did you go?
March 24, 2012
It has been weeks since I wrote on this blog and don’t know where to start now.  So much has happened.  I had bronchitis a felt pretty bad but some of our workers had much more serious diseases.  during the time I could muster the strength to read and write I have been writting long over due letters to supporters.
I am also very excited to announce that I have set up a website.
www.denamoore.com
will host both blogs, hold my newsletter and give a little info on me and what is going on with the work here.  This blog will bemoving to
www.denamoore.com
where new posts and listed along with archived posts.  It’s not snazy but it is important easy to remember info.
www.denamoore.com
Check it out and tell me what you think.
Category:
Uncategorized
1
Comment
SNAKE!
SNAKE!
SNAKE!!!!
March 3, 2012
SNAKE! SNAKE! SNAKE!!! Bring the machete it’s in the kitchen!
Yep, as I was “dusting” for ants I found this lovely jewel hiding behind the pots. I had been putting off doing this little chore  of dusting because I have a couple of geckos that live in my house and if I poison their food supply (ants) they will die too.  I just can’t take the ants any longer so reluctantly I got the Sevin Dust out and said a sad farewell to the geckos.  The geckos (a lizard like creature who eats ants and mosquitos) have become a comfortable sight in my house.  They mostly stay on the walls and only come out in the evenings to feed.  One gecko you may have heard me affectionately refer to as Melba the Marvelous.  She is an 8 inch gecko that has apparently had babies here.  I should point out she has legs, the thing I found hiding behind the pots didn’t.
If it wiggles it’s a little questionable.  If it wiggles without legs that is just not right!  I don’t care what anybody says.  I will never get used to the snakes.  Okay so this time I did maintain composure enough to take a picture and then taunt the injured snake in an effort to get a photo of it trying to strike.  I don’t know if it was poisonous and don’t really care.  It was a SNAKE!  It is not welcome in my house.
So there.  That is my tirade for the day.  Add this to the you know you’re a missionary when…list.
There is a whole symbolism and devotional thought here but I will have to come back to that.  Right now I am too worked up over the fact that it was in my kitchen less than 3 inches from my hand before I saw it.
Category:
ramblings
2
Comments
Tagged with: East Africa gecko snake
the dream continues
March 2, 2012
Fulani girl
A couple of years ago I was given the 2 minutes to share who I am and what I was preparing to do.  A day or two ago I ran across a scribble of what I was going to say in that 2 minutes.  It read:
My name is Dena Moore and I’m a missionary recruit with
Pioneer Bible Translators
whose purpose is to take God’s word to the world in every language.  I dream about living among a people group who does not know God because they do not yet have the scriptures in their language.  I look forward to the day that we will share the Word that has been translated into the language of their heart.  I would love the opportunity to share the vision of PBT with you and talk about how you might help.
I am pleased to say that some years later I am serving as a missionary in East Africa with Pioneer Bible Translators living those dreams of working with the least reached of the world.  The words I spoke that night stand true today.  The dream continues.  I would love to share the vision and how you could help.  Contact me for more information.
Related articles
Ship’s anchor disrupts internet in East Africa
(geek.com)
Delivering Hope
(wycliffeusa.wordpress.com)
You know you are a missionary when…
(denamoore.wordpress.com)
Category:
Christian ,
ramblings ,
translation
Leave a comment
Tagged with: Bible Dream East Africa God Pioneer Bible Translators
You know you are a missionary when…
February 24, 2012
You know you’re a
missionary
when….
I have been asked how I like being a missionary.  The short answer is… “I love it!”   My life has changed dramatically in the last few years.  I went from living in a small town in Arkansas to living in rural
East Africa , from working in a photography studio to working for the King, from
thinking
the bottom line was a dollar figure to
knowing
the bottom line is salvation.  So when a friend asked me recently how my life has changed it sparked the following list.  Most of these are from my own experience, but some were suggested by friends who are missionaries.  Most of these I think are comical but mom calls them gross.  Read and laugh with me!
You know you’re a missionary when….
Your idea of what is ok to eat changes.
You open a new bag of flour and find bugs, and instead of being surprised and throwing it all away, you sift out the bugs and use it anyway since it’s the only flour available. (Please tell me I’m not the only one…)
:)
Dried minnows (better known in East Africa as dagaa) is a good meal.
Freeze things to kill ants then eat anyway.
You boil your cornmeal instead of baking into cornbread.
All
water
HAS to be filtered or boiled before you will even think about using it.
Your idea of what is “clean” changes.
A good hotel simply has to have a towel and water.  If it has hot water it gets an extra star.
Your best friend is 8 time zones away.
You routinely “go off the grid” and think nothing of it.  Meaning you have no electricity, water, cell phone, internet or all of the above.
You sleep in your truck because you are stuck in a mud hole and there is a hungry lion on the prowl.
Your idea of being “tucked in” at bedtime is more like a tent than being snuggled in warm covers.  (a
mosquito net
can feel like a tent.)
A machete is kept handy because there could be a snake hiding in the door frame when you step out.
You chop the head off a black mamba in your bathroom…
When you see a snake in the bush outside the window you look it up to see if it is a green mamba.  (and it was)
Sweeping the grass is “good housekeeping.”
‎…when you ride in a minibus for 2+ hours to your destination and still have to walk several miles through ankle deep mud to get to where you are staying…and you love it!!!
Your idea of a pet and how they are kept changes.
You buy your daughter a donkey as a pet.
Dogs are not man’s best friend they are guards.
Cats are great outdoors, because they are good hunters of both snakes and rats.
The “traffic jam” is because an elephant decided to rest in the middle of the road.
A game of tag involves a baboon.
On a drive “home” you see zebra, impala, wildebeest, giraffe and other assorted exotic animals.
You routinely dodge goats downtown.
When you pull out of your driveway you honk at the cattle grazing in your ditch.  (ok, maybe that one is universal.)
The dala dala you are on (a 15 passenger minivan used for public transport) has no less than 27 people, you are standing on some else’s foot and have your behind in another person’s face, but that too is normal.
You arrive for church 10 minutes late only to find you are the first one there.
Your top of the line stove has 2 burners that are electric and 2 that are gas because you never know when one or the other might be out.
You keep a jiko (a small stove like a hibachi charcoal grill) for cooking on charcoal just in case both the power and gas are both out.
You see someone who is obviously American in a public place and want to run over to them and hear all about exactly where they’re from and why they’re in town if only so that you can speak in English for a little while.
You catch the rain water so that you have water to flush the toilet.
And my personal favorite (hat tip: to my dear friend Jackie Guccione)…When someone is touched by something you have done or said.
Category:
Christian ,
faith ,
ramblings
1
Comment
Tagged with: East Africa God Missionary Missions Water
Five things worth learning
February 16, 2012
I subscribe to a weekly newsletter for artists.  The author often recounts his own experiences and comments on letters he receives readers.  In one of his recent letters he lists five things worth learning about art.  I jokingly said there were five things you need to know to be a missionary then stopped to think these are just good things to know where ever you are, whatever your life style is.
Bush
Mechanics – When setting up and maintaining a house in a rural area like the one where I live now you need a basic understanding of how to install and fix electrical, plumbing, and building basics. You may be able to hire a skilled worker to do the actual work needed but if you can’t tell them what you need they may not fix the problem.  Some people think
DIY
projects are for those who can’t afford to have someone else do it.  In my opinion it is just common sense to be able to take care of the basics yourself.  Besides it is a lot of fun to do projects with the kids like building a solar oven.  You can use a cardboard box, aluminum foil and a black pot to cook bacon and eggs or brownies.  I built one that had temps reaching over 190°.
Primary health care – Learn how to treat yourself and others when there is no medical care.  Ok so maybe this one is extreme.  You may not need to know how to handle Malaria, bubonic plague or
Dengue Fever
but you should know basic first aid.  I’m not talking about slapping on some Neosporin and a band-aid.  I mean giving
CPR
or stabilizing a fractured bone until you can reach medical care.  Check with the local
Red Cross
to see when the next training is being offered.
Bush cooking
– Learn to feed yourself if there is a disaster.  That means knowing how to light a charcoal or wood fire without lighter fluid or fire starters.  Learn how to properly prepare food and clean,
safe drinking water .  I have found that between drinking and teeth brushing I use almost 4 liters a day.  That’s a lot of water!  To really kill all the parasites in water it needs to boil at least 20 minutes and that doesn’t filter out the minerals so it might still taste funny.
How to dress – So this one is personal preference and some societal influence.  In some cultures it is highly inappropriate to show your knees or a bare shoulder.  People will judge you by your appearance.  If you are dressed sloppy people notice, just as they notice when you are dressed up for a holiday like Halloween.  Ladies think twice before wearing tank or strapless tops.  Guys let me suggest that you investigate how, where and why young men started wearing droopy jeans.  Who do you “belong” to?
Jesus is our Savior –
This is the most important thing you will ever learn.  Know it well and share it with others!
Category:
Christian ,
faith ,
food ,
ramblings
Leave a comment
Tagged with: Christian faith International Red Cross and Red Crescent Movement Jesus
Dena Moore
Bare Necessities
About
Bare Necessities
Email Subscription
Enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Join 30 other followers
October 2015
S
M
T
W
T
F
S
« Apr
1 2 3
4 5 6 7 8 9 10
11 12 13 14 15 16 17
18 19 20 21 22 23 24
25 26 27 28 29 30 31
Archives
April 2012
March 2012
February 2012
December 2011
November 2011
October 2011
September 2011
August 2011
July 2011
June 2011
September 2010
June 2010
May 2010
April 2010
March 2010
February 2010
December 2009
November 2009
Older Posts
Tag Cloud
Christian
faith
East Africa
God
Bible
Christianity
translation
memories
Mosquito net
Christmas
Biblical Greek
travel
friends
excitement
Swahili
Malaria
Christmas tree
journal
Learning
language
Swahili language
Bantu languages
Jesus
Great Commission
Missionary
goodbye
farewell
joy
English language
Church
poetry
Newsletter
Email address
World Health Organization
Mosquito
Tanzania
Bagamoyo
Africa
Indian Ocean
Kaole
Marriage
Harding University
Ugali
Cook
Santa Claus
Tradition
food
Jesus Christ
Nativity Story
Dar Es Salaam
expectation
setting goals
Religion and Spirituality
International Red Cross and Red Crescent Movement
Water
Missions
Pioneer Bible Translators
Dream
gecko
snake
Create a free website or blog at WordPress.com . |
The Spectrum Theme .
Dena's Journey Blog
Create a free website or blog at WordPress.com .
The Spectrum Theme .
Follow
Follow “Dena's Journey Blog”
Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.
Join 30 other followers
Build a website with WordPress.com
Add your thoughts here... (optional)
Post to
Cancel