The Buzz on Mosquito Prevention - American Pest Control, Inc.
American Pest Control, Inc.
Family owned business celebrating over 40 years of service in NE Georgia with responsible and reliable pest and termite control. Just say no to bugs!
Home
May 17, 2012
The Buzz on Mosquito Prevention
David Cappaert, Michigan State University, Bugwood.org
As we
reported
earlier this year, a warm spring and recent rain has brought out the mosquitoes in the Northeast Georgia area, causing concern for their abundance this year. These biting pests are a concern because of the threat of the diseases that they can carry, including West Nile Virus, Malaria, and
Dengue Fever . Mosquitoes are a known threat to Georgia, but can be prevented by staying vigilant and knowing a few prevention tips.
What conditions attract mosquitoes?
Tall grass and bushes along with standing water attracts mosquitoes to your yard. Mosquitoes must breed in water so any standing water around your home will attract them to your home. Also, adult mosquitoes live within the cover of vegetation so any overgrown grass or shrubs can attract them.
What attracts mosquitoes to an individual person?
Recent research
from the University of California, Riverside has shown that how much carbon dioxide a person releases can be linked to how mosquitoes are attracted to them. Mosquitoes have carbon dioxide sensors that allow them to track and find a host up to 50 meters away. Additionally certain skin odors cause mosquitoes to be attracted more to certain individuals along with the amount of certain acids and build up on your skin. Check out this
WebMD article
for more information on skin attractors.
How can I prevent mosquitoes?
Around Your Home:
Making your home and yard inhabitable for mosquitoes helps to keep them
from
becoming a problem. First remove all standing water and
objects that can collect standing water from your home, including
buckets, tires, cans, drums. If these objects must stay in place empty
them of water at least once a week.  Change the water in bird baths and
dog bowls every 3-4 days. It only takes a little water for mosquitoes to
breed so constantly keep an eye out for them. Also, check to make sure
gutters are clear of debris that could cause blockages and water
build-up. Repair leaky faucets to prevent a water source from being
available for mosquitoes. Keep grass and bushed cut short so adult
mosquitoes will not live in the area. Also, check screens on doors and windows for any tears and that they fit properly. If you continue to have problems with mosquitoes consider establishing a
mosquito prevention plan
with a professional pest management company.
On Your Person:
When outside be sure to wear a repellent that includes DEET. If you prefer natural repellent look for ones that are soybean oil-based.
Scientific studies
have shown that soybean oil-based repellent works longer than other natural options like lemongrass, citronella, cedar, or peppermint. Try to stay indoors during peak mosquito hours in the evening and if you must go outdoors try to wear long sleeves. Because mosquitoes are attracted to carbon dioxide, try not to do strenuous activities during peak times. The increased breathing (carbon dioxide) will help to attract mosquitoes to your location. Additionally, mosquitoes are attracted to movement so keeping your activity down will help too.
Check out this video from
WCBD Charleston
for more tips and info to keep your family safe from mosquitoes.
May 17, 2012 12:48:13 PM
|
Science
Comment
0
Reblog It
0
The comments to this entry are closed.
NEXT POST Quick Questions About Professional Lawn Care Programs
with Billy Marett
1. Why does someone need a lawn care program? The benefits of having a lawn care program allow the homeowner to turn over their lawn care to professionals that can utilize products that are more effective than standard DIY products from home improvement stores. Unless you have an extreme green thumb and love to maintain your lawn, the convenience factor is a major plus. Instead of a client giving up their time on the weekends to fertilizing their lawn, we can take over the responsibility. 2. What are the benefits of having a lawn care program? Proper timing for fertilization,...
PREVIOUS POST Travel Tips: Bed Bug Prevention
Check out this MSNBC Special featuring bed bug travel tips Summer is almost here and that means travel season for many American families. As we have previously posted, bed bugs are back with vengeance in America affecting millions of people. Bed bug infestations are very difficult and costly to treat, making them one of the most hated pests around. Infestations can be caused by bringing bed bugs home while traveling, including hotels, condos and more. And bed bugs don't have a preference for lower quality hotels, they were even found in the NYC Ritz-Carlton earlier this year. So here's a...
Ampest.com
American Pest Control is one of the largest family-owned pest control companies in Georgia. Since 1971 we service homes for mice, insects, termites, fire ants, mosquitoes, moisture, pre-construction treatments, letters for real estate closings.
1
Following
13
Followers
Search
My Other Accounts
Twitter
|
American_Pest
YouTube
|
AmpestControl
Recent Comments
Avery Schlacter:
Thanks for sharing this with me. I think this c...
|
more »
On
Enter our APC Christmas Coloring Contest!
pestcontrolnj14:
Pest Control NJ Pest Control Bergen NJ Pest Man...
|
more »
On
Fall Is Here and Wildlife Is Coming
Ampest.com:
David,
And were here to keep them out. :)...
|
more »
On
Fall Is Here and Wildlife Is Coming
Subscribe to this blog's feed
Powered by Typepad