Where in the world can we find dengue?
About
Meet our team
Contact
Metrolic
Editorials
Home
World News
U.S. News
Business
Technology
Entertainment
Lifestyle
Science
Environment
Health
Sports
Arts
Where in the world can we find dengue?
Written by
admin
Posted in:
Environment ,
Health
no comments
Do you like this story?
A Google.org intern is revealing the efforts that
Google
has made in the last months in the health field. There is a new collaboration developing between Google.org grantee HealthMap and the Dengue Branch of the United States
Centers for Disease Prevention and Control .
Because they wanted to make public the recent reports of
dengue
around the world and to show the regions where people risk to catch it, they have created
DengueMap , where the reports are updated more than once a day, keeping the interested persons in touch with the location of dengue on the globe.
Many people don’t really know what dengue is and the numbers related to it, globally. Seems that on the globe, 2.5 billion people are in a risk of contracting dengue, while 50 to 100 million persons get sick every year.
In the same time, it is worrying the fact that dengue is located in more than 100 countries all over the world, and the trend is growing in many regions of the globe, including the United
States area.
As the Center for Disease Prevention and Control reveals in its reports, since 2009 in
Florida
there have been 28 cases of dengue, which is pretty alarming taking into account the fact that before 2009 there were recorded only a handful of cases.
Dengue
is a disease that affects people from the tropical and subtropical areas, from the cities and rural areas in the same time. It is spread by a virus transmitted by mosquitoes, and its symptoms are very similar to a severe flu.
The biggest of worries is that for this disease there is any cure and vaccine, and fortunately, there are rare the cases when it caused death, only when complications appear, like dengue hemorrhagic fever that can be lethal.
So, if you want to stay away of the dengue, check out the areas on the globe with dengue using DengueMap and use bug spray.11
Did you like it? Share it! Tweet
Related Articles Summer dangers: mosquitoes
Mosquitoes can be found all over the world, and mostly in the regions where there is a high level of humidity. But, mosquitoes can be quite dangerous because they can transmit different diseases and so, they can cause many health […] Malaysia Releases Lab Mosquitoes To Fight Dengue
In the first experiment of its kind, a Malaysian laboratory has released 6,000, genetically modified mosquitoes into a forest, attempting to fight dengue fever. <-300x250 Medium Rectangle->
The test, is thought, will make it […] A Buzz, Buzz Here…A Buzz Buzz There – Mosquitoes
I would describe these tiny creatures as being annoying, buzzing, irritating, troublesome in one word unpleasant creatures. Even though hate is a quite radical word to be used and one needs to carefully look into the matter before […] West Nile Virus Infections More Common Than Thought Before
West Nile fever was first spotted in the united States in 1999, after a huge epidemic of the virus infection hit the New York City.<-200x200 Small Square->
An investigation performed then led to the discovery that one in five […] West Nile Virus – back
This specific virus dates way back over 1000 years ago, and it was then developing in two different lineage, the 1st and the 2nd. Anyhow, the first person ever to be considered to have diet as a result of catching this virus is Alexander […] Andy Irons Dead Because of Dengue Fever
Three times world surfing champion, Andy Irons, died after complications from dengue fever. He was 32 years old.<-200x200 Small Square->
The news of the famous surfer’s death shocked and it also pointed out the danger of this […] Armadillos Can Transmit Leprosy
According to livescience.com and nytimes.com, the scientists have advised people to stay away from armadillos as they are extremely dangerous for the human health.<-300x250 Medium Rectangle->
These animals are not very loved by […] Top 10 Most Infectious Diseases
There are a lot of diseases that can affect people, but it is the simple ones, which have no actual cure, but the immune system of the body to fight against them.<-200x200 Small Square->
Take the common cold for example. Scientists […]
« previous post
next post »
Comments are closed.
Loading...
Today’s Most Popular
Abu Dhabi, The Richest City In The World Susan Boyle's Autobiography: The Woman I Was Born To Be Top Alien Encounter Stories Romanians Are On The Verge Of Finding The Cure For Cancer New Planet Earth Found?
Find us on Facebook
Recent Comments
Bogdan : My friend,
I would avoid considering some theories as bei
cours de cuisine Strasbourg : Its like you learn my mind! You appear to grasp a lot about
NIDHIN A S : ENJOY THE LAST TIMES OF YOURS BY A HUMAN BEING WHO LOVES THE
Barnes : Satan (Allah) will call Jesus loud in the end.
Muthusi : Why do those aliens show themselves only on whitelands,why h
9637567952 : a
Nancy : I am reading the Dulce book, and it made me think of some of
Dr. Sanathdeva Murutenge : Now I am really getting tired of reading junk science of Ste
Faithful : I see the math is ounce and ton but china is using Metro ton
garba ali : helo
very
body
i love
this
country
is
very
nice
an
Keep In Touch
subscribe to
RSS
become a fan on
Facebook
Smartphone Powered
Did you know that
Metrolic
can be viewed from popular touch-based smartphones like iPhone TM , iPod touch TM , Android TM , Palm TM
Pre/Pixi, and BlackBerry Storm TM ?
© 2010 Metrolic. All rights reserved |
Meet our team
|
Contact us
|
Archive
|
About