Travel Health | Drive the Americas
Skip to main content
Drive the Americas
Toggle navigation
Log In
|
New Account
Search
Home
Trip Planning
Your Vehicle
Vehicle Shipping
Roads & Driving
Roadtripper Profiles
Scam Avoidance
Forums
Travel Health
If you are going to be traveling for any period of time in Latin America, chances are you will get sick.   You'll be surprised - food poisoning horror stories are one of the many things road trippers like to swap tales about.  Usually it is just is the minor discomfort associated with mild food poisoning.   Find a nice place to relax for a couple of days and let it work its way out of your system the 'natural' way.   This article outlines the ways you can minimize your risk of getting sick and what diseases you may encounter along the road.
Travel Health
The  CDC has a wealth of information on travel health, vaccinations, and safety . In particular, the  CDC Health Information for International Travel (the Yellow Book)  was developed to provide up-to-date and comprehensive information on immunization requirements and health recommendations to protect and promote the health of international travelers.
Water Purification
In order to avoid getting sick, you will want to either buy purified water or bring a water purifier. It may be worth purchasing a portable water purification system, as drinking bottled water generates a lot of plastic trash. There are quite a few different options for portable systems, all of which are summarized nicely in  this Wikipedia article on water purification . Boiling, filtration, chemicals, and UV light can all be used to kill many infectious agents. You will need clean water for drinking and washing any fruits or vegetables you may eat along the way. Rinsing your toothbrush with purified water is also a good idea. Be wary of non-bottled beverages that are served in restaurants; they may contain water or ice that has not been purified. Check out this water purifier in our
gear review
section.
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccinations
Depending on what countries you plan to visit, there are different diseases to consider, and vaccinations you will need. The  CDC  has excellent information on their webpage, and breaks the information down country by country. Of course you should consult with your physician or a local travel doctor before any trip, but the following is a list of things to expect.
Vaccinations
Yellow fever  is spread by mosquitos ( see map ). Although there is an effective vaccine, it can still cause devastating outbreaks in unvaccinated communities. Many countries require proof of vaccination before allowing entrance, so make sure to bring your World Health Organization  vaccination card  to prove that you are indeed vaccinated.
For many of the countries in Central and South America it is a good idea to make sure that you are up-to-date on the following vaccinations:
Measles, Mumps, and Rubella
Diphtheria, Pertussis (whooping cough), and Tetanus
Hepatitis A and B  - these requires several shots in series, so be sure to plan ahead
Typhoid fever  - available as an oral vaccine if you're very needle-averse
Malaria
Malaria  is a disease spread by mosquitoes, and is most prevalent in rural areas in a band around the equator. The drugs you can take to prevent malaria in Central and South America will depend on the areas you plan on visiting. In general, in Mexico and Central America, both  chloroquine  and  doxycycline  are effective. In some parts of South America, the parasite that causes malaria is now resistant to chloroquine, so it is necessary to take  mefloquine  (also called Lariam) or  Malarone  (a combination of atovaquone and proguanil). Currently there is no vaccine for malaria. The  UK's National Health Service's map  is useful for location specific malaria.
Dengue Fever
Dengue Fever , also known as 'break-bone fever,' is spread by mosquitoes. It is more prevalent in urban as opposed to rural areas, and there is no vaccine. The only protection currently is to wear mosquito repellent and long clothes whenever possible. Using mosquito repellent with high levels of  DEET  and treating clothes with  permethrine  provides the most effective protection from mosquitoes. Outbreaks of Dengue fever are rapidly reported, so check the  CDC's Outbreak notices  to see if there is an outbreak where you are headed.
Food and Water-Born Parasites
As diverse as the landscape, people, and environments are in Latin America, there is an equal diversity of the food- and water-born parasites you may encounter during your travels. Bacteria, parasites, and viruses can contaminate food and drink in non-hygienic kitchens. For a thorough list of all of the things that can make you sick, see Wikipedia's  food-born illnesses  and  water-born illnesses  articles. Most travelers will get sick at some point, but most illnesses do not need to be treated with medicines and will resolve themselves within a couple of days. The Yellow Book has an  extensive chapter on diarrhea  and additional information on  symptoms and treatments . One of the most important things you can do is to make sure to wash your hands thoroughly before eating. Well cooked foods are generally safer than raw or undercooked foods.
Food Allergies
It appears that food allergies are not common, and therefore, not well understood in Latin America. It is always worth asking in a restaurant if the food you are ordering contains a certain ingredient (for example, nuts if that is your allergy), but usually the person taking your order will quickly dismiss your question. It is a bit unnerving, so you will need to be careful when you are eating out. In particular for people with nut allergies, South America can be very difficult. Many soups and sauces in Ecuador, Peru, and Bolivia are made with a peanut base, even some clear broths. From personal experience (and 4 trips to the emergency room in various countries) even asking if something contains nuts does not help. It is worth bringing a good supply of epi-pens and the accompanying medicines (inhalers, benedryl, etc) in case of emergency.
Log in
or
register
to post comments
Destinations
North America Canada Mexico United States Central America Belize Costa Rica El Salvador Guatemala Honduras Nicaragua Panama South America Argentina Bolivia Brazil Chile Colombia Ecuador French Guiana Guyana Paraguay Peru Suriname Uruguay Venezuela
Join Us
Follow us on
Twitter
Check out our
Facebook page
Vehicles For Sale/Wanted
For sale: Daewoo Nubira 1999, Santiago 3500US
Last updated:
1 day 17 hours
ago
We are looking to sell our 1999 daewoo nubira in november. We bought it to do the patagonia stage of our south american trip. We are heading north from other Bolivia and Peru sowould ideally like to...
For Sale Slide in CAMPER / SANTIAGO Chile
Last updated:
12 hours 19 min
ago
Camper, custom made, that fits Toyota Hilux Dble Cabin or similar pick up. It is BRAND NEW!! one piece roof, fiberglass walls on steel tubing frame, light and ridgid, Interior headroom of 190cm, LED...
SALE Ford Explorer 4x4 in Northern Chile
Last updated:
17 hours 43 min
ago
Hi Folks!
we're gonna sell our Ford Explorer Sport Back 4.0 in Iquique (alternatively Arica or Antofagasta) in mid/end December.
We bought our very reliable "Rodolfo" in Chile from an old man that ...
Vehicle Shipping
Shipping Panama to Colombia ASAP! Need partner
Last updated:
4 days 16 hours
ago
Hey all - we're in Panama City now and looking to get over to Colombia ASAP! We're looking for a shipping container partner - we've got an average sized SUV. No need to stay any longer draining $$ in...
Colon ferry back in service?
Last updated:
2 weeks 6 days
ago
Hello folks,
I just met another overlander who told me that the ferry from Colon would be back in service from November 2015 onward.
Can anyone confirm (or credibly discredit) this information?
Many...
Sharing a container from Cartagena to Colon as soon as posible,before the 09.october.2015
Last updated:
1 month 5 days
ago
I am shipping my camper Land Rover from Cartagena to Colon, in a 40 feets container October 2015.  I looking for another car  to share the container with,
We have a cotation for the  Hi 40 feets...
Built by
Kristin & Chris , and EyelineDesign
Powered by
Drupal
About Us Contact Us Contribute Terms and Conditions
Except where otherwise noted content on this site is licensed under a
Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License