Cocktails in Charleston: Blue Devil
Cocktails in Charleston
Working My Way Through 1000 Recipes, One Drink at a Time
Monday, March 7, 2011
Blue Devil
Blue
Devil
Cocktail : Gin, Blue Curaçao, Lemon Juice, Maraschino
Gin, Blue Curaçao, Lemon Juice, Maraschino
So this is basically an
Aviation
cocktail , right? With the addition of some blue curaçao.
The
Aviation
is a drink that is more than having it's moment in the sun right now, but - for some reason - it was not included in the
Guide . The Blue Devil gave us our chance to give it (well, something like it) a try, and I have to say - it was amazing!
DP agreed 100% - and I swear we're not pushing this drink just because of Duke.
Ingredients:
1.5 oz Gin
3/4 tsp Blue Curaçao
3/4 oz Lemon Juice
1/2 oz Maraschino
Directions:
Shake with ice and strain into a chilled cocktail glass.
The Blue Devil recipe in the Guide has a heavier hand with the gin than
most recipes online , but you know I'm OK with that. The lemon juice brightens and tarts everything up, and the maraschino liqueur has those complex notes that bind it all together. The blue curaçao adds some sweet orange to the citrus from the lemon, and taken as a whole this cocktail rings all the right bells.
So good!
Posted by
Samuel Bebee
at
12:22 PM
Labels:
Blue Curaçao ,
Curaçao ,
Gin ,
Lemon Juice ,
Maraschino
4 comments:
snappy March 18, 2011 at 7:56 PM But wait, if it's the Blue Devil, why is it Carolina Blue? Reply Delete DP March 20, 2011 at 8:47 AM What does it mean that the "Blue Lady" is more of a Duke blue than the "Blue Devil"????? Reply Delete James Jacks March 20, 2011 at 6:01 PM Is it bad that I didn't notice the Carolina Blue until you mentioned it? I think that's very Duke of me. Reply Delete snappy March 22, 2011 at 5:43 PM I wanted to make a Blue Lady/Devil with a Blue Dress On joke, but it just wasn't coming together for me...
I'm not sure if not noticing is the most Duke-like response - I would think maybe if you had an unexplainable aversion, that would be more Dukie! Reply Delete Add comment Load more...
Newer Post
Older Post
Home
Subscribe to:
Post Comments (Atom)
Simple template. Powered by
Blogger .