Haze in South East Asia worsens - Wikinews, the free news source
Haze in South East Asia worsens
From Wikinews, the free news source you can write!
Jump to:					 navigation , 					 search
Friday, October 6, 2006
Stock photo of haze in
Malaysia
The acrid
haze
situation in
Southeast Asia
is worsening. Visibility has been severely reduced in neighboring countries and some schools have been closed due to the health hazard posed. The annual smoke season is caused by illegal
slash and burn
clearance of land in
Indonesia , particularly the island of
Borneo .
The haze has spread over 2,250 miles (3,600 kilometers) into neighboring countries such as
Singapore ,
Malaysia ,
Thailand , and even drifting to
Guam
in the western
Pacific .
Aviation
has been severely impaired in Indonesia, where in certain areas, visibility is only a mere 200 to 300 meters. Helicopter service in Malaysia's
Sarawak state , a key mode of transportation there, has been halted due to the poor visibility. A
Mandala Airlines
Boeing 737-200
carrying a 110 people had overshot the runway at
Tarakan
airport in
Kalimantan province
in Indonesia. The aircraft came partly to rest in a nearby swamp. Visibility at the time was around 400 meters, 600 meters short of Indonesian landing safety regulations.
Schools in Thailand, and Indonesia have also been forced to closed, and look likely to stay closed well into next week.
Air pollution indices
around the region have also registered a spike in poor air quality. Sarawak state's index came in at 106-188 with 100-200 being unhealthy. In
Malay peninsula , the air pollution index in five states came in at 101-116. In
Singapore , the Pollution Standards Index registered between 80-130 with 81-100 in the moderate range and 101-200 in the unhealthy range.
This article features
first-hand journalism
by
Wikinews members . See the
collaboration page
for more details.
Wikinews
journalist
Timlee90
reports:
The air quality here in Singapore is so bad that I could feel the dust in my mouth as I was walking on the streets today. The air constantly smells of burning wood and visibility is never more than a kilometer. Singaporeans I know are concerned about the deteriorating situation.
Timothy Low, a Singaporean who's just finished his
national service
says that he is concerned about the situation, "I can't run to exercise. People with lung related problems have difficulty breathing; It causes tearing also." The government here has advised citizens to reduce vigorous activity, especially those with existing heart or lung conditions.
–
Timlee90 , Singapore
The
Indonesian government
has been criticized by
environmentalist groups
such as
Greenpeace , which claims that the allowed conversion of forests into cropland is the cause of the problem. The also call on the Indonesian government to "investigate and hold liable plantation companies responsible for slash and burn clearing".
The Indonesian government has responded to the criticism that it is doing all that it can do. "We don't know when we can put out the fires but we are working tirelessly and have spent billions of
rupiah
(hundreds of thousands of dollars) in our efforts,"
Forestry Minister Malem Sambat Kaban
said. "As for complaints from neighbouring countries, there's nothing else we can do. We don't cause the fires deliberately."
In 1997-98, the haze cost the Southeast Asian region an estimated US$9.0 billion by disrupting air travel and other business activities
Sources
" Haze from Indonesia fires chokes region, spreads across Pacific " —  Channel NewsAsia , October 5, 2006
" Indonesian Ministry of Forestry smoked out by Greenpeace " —  Greenpeace , October 5, 2006
Bhimanto Suwastoyo. " Haze from Indonesia fires chokes region, spreads across Pacific " —  AFP , October 5, 2006
" Indonesia says working "tirelessly" to douse fires " —  Reuters , October 5, 2006
Share this:
This page has been
archived
by an
administrator , and
sighted
by a trusted user. It is no longer publicly editable.
Got a correction? Add the template {{ editprotected }} to the
talk page
along with your corrections, and it will be
brought to the attention of
the
administrators .
Please note that the listed sources may no longer be available online. The sighting of this article does not guarantee accuracy - it has been sighted for technical reasons.
Retrieved from " https://en.wikinews.org/w/index.php?title=Haze_in_South_East_Asia_worsens&oldid=1954632 "
Categories :
October 6, 2006 Original reporting Published Archived Environment Indonesia Singapore Malaysia Thailand Asia Greenpeace Fires Borneo Sarawak
Navigation menu
Personal tools
Create account Log in
Namespaces
Article
Collaboration
Variants
Views
Read
View source
View history
More
Search
Navigation
Main page Newsroom Recent changes Random article Archives Free use media upload
Wikinews
Help Pillars of writing Write an article Water cooler Style guide Live chat Donate Contact us
Regions
Africa Asia Central America Europe Middle East North America Oceania South America
In other languages
Add links
Print/export
Create a book Download as PDF Printable version
Tools
What links here Related changes Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page
This page was last modified on 15 July 2013, at 12:06.
All text created after September 25, 2005 available under the terms of the
Creative Commons Attribution 2.5
License, unless otherwise specified.
Contributions must be attributed to
Wikinews ; see
Terms of use
for details. Copyright on images may vary, please check individual image pages prior to duplication.
By using this site, you agree to the
Terms of Use
and
Privacy Policy. Wikinews ®, and the
Wikinews
logo are registered trademarks of the
Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. Wikinews
is not responsible for the content of external sites.
Privacy policy
About Wikinews
Disclaimers
Developers
Mobile view