Wikipedia Articles
Wikipedia Articles
Description
from the Wikipedia article
Trade credit insurance
Trade credit insurance, business credit insurance ,
export credit insurance , or
credit insurance
is an
insurance policy
and a
risk management
product offered by private insurance companies and governmental
export credit agencies
to business entities wishing to protect their
accounts receivable
from loss due to
credit risks
such as protracted
default ,
insolvency
or
bankruptcy .
This insurance product is a type of
property & casualty insurance , and should not be confused with such products as
credit life
or
credit disability insurance ,
which individuals obtain to protect against the risk of loss of income
needed to pay debts. Trade Credit Insurance can include a component of
political risk insurance
which is offered by the same insurers to insure the risk of non-payment
by foreign buyers due to currency issues, political unrest,
expropriation etc.
This points to the major role trade credit insurance plays in facilitating
international trade .
Trade credit
is offered by vendors to their customers as an alternative to prepayment or
cash on delivery
terms, providing time for the customer to generate income from sales to
pay for the product or service. This requires the vendor to assume
non-payment risk. In a local or domestic situation as well as in an
export transaction, the risk increases when laws, customs communications
and customer's reputation are not fully understood. In addition to
increased risk of non-payment, international trade presents the problem
of the time between product shipment and its availability for sale. The
account receivable is like a loan and represents capital invested, and
often borrowed, by the vendor. But this is not a secure asset until it
is paid. If the customer's debt is credit insured the large, risky asset
becomes more secure, like an insured building. This asset may then be
viewed as
collateral
by lending institutions and a loan based upon it used to defray the
expenses of the transaction and to produce more product. Trade credit
insurance is, therefore, a trade finance tool.
Read more »
2
Comments
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share to Pinterest
Labels：
Insurance
Mortgage insurance
Mortgage insurance
(also known as
mortgage guarantee ) is an
insurance policy
which compensates lenders or investors for losses due to the
default
of a
mortgage loan .
Mortgage insurance can be either public or private depending upon the
insurer. The policy is also known as a mortgage indemnity guarantee
(MIG), particularly in the UK.
For example, suppose Ms Smith decides to purchase a house which costs $150,000. She pays 10% ($15,000)
down payment
and takes out a $135,000 ($150,000-$15,000) mortgage on the remaining
90%. Lenders will often require mortgage insurance for mortgage loans
which exceed 80% (the typical cut-off) of the property's sale price.
Because of her limited equity, the lender requires that Ms Smith pay for
mortgage insurance that protects the lender against her default. The
lender then requires the mortgage insurer to provide insurance coverage
at, for example, 25% of the $135,000 ($33,750), leaving the lender with
an exposure of $101,250. The mortgage insurer will charge a premium for this coverage, which may
be paid by either the borrower or the lender. If the borrower defaults
and the property is sold at a loss, the insurer will cover the first
$33,750 of losses. Coverages offered by mortgage insurers can vary from
20% to 50% and higher.
Read more »
0
Comments
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share to Pinterest
Labels：
Insurance
Payment protection insurance
Payment protection insurance
( PPI ), also known as
credit insurance ,
credit protection insurance , or
loan repayment insurance ,
is an insurance product that enables consumers to insure repayment of
loans if the borrower dies, becomes ill or disabled, loses a job, or
faces other circumstances that may prevent them from earning income to
service the debt. It is not to be confused with
income protection insurance ,
which is not specific to a debt but covers any income. PPI is widely
sold by banks and other credit providers as an add-on to the loan or
overdraft product.
Credit insurance can be purchased to insure all kinds of consumer
loans including car loans, loans from finance companies, and home
mortgage borrowing.
Credit card
agreements may include a form of PPI cover as standard. Policies are also available to cover specific categories of risk, e.g.
credit life insurance ,
credit disability insurance , and
credit accident insurance .
Although the policy is purchased by the consumer/borrower, the
benefit paid in the event of a claim goes to the company that extended
credit to the consumer.
PPI usually covers minimum loan (or overdraft) payments for a finite
period (typically 12 months). After this point the borrower must find
other means to repay the debt, though the period covered by insurance is
typically long enough for most people to start working again and earn
enough to service their debt. PPI is different from other types of
insurance such as
home insurance ,
in that it can be quite difficult to determine if it is right for a
person or not. Careful assessment of what would happen if a person
became unemployed would need to be considered, as payments in lieu of
notice (for example) may render a claim ineligible despite the insured
person being genuinely unemployed. In this case, the approach taken by
PPI insurers is consistent with that taken by the Benefits Agency in
respect of
unemployment benefits .
Read more »
3
Comments
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share to Pinterest
Labels：
Insurance
Liability insurance
Liability insurance
is a part of the general
insurance
system of
risk
financing to protect the purchaser (the "insured") from the risks of
liabilities imposed by lawsuits and similar claims. It protects the
insured in the event he or she is sued for claims that come within the
coverage of the
insurance policy .
Originally, individuals or companies that faced a common
peril ,
formed a group and created a self-help fund out of which to pay
compensation should any member incur loss (in other words, a mutual
insurance arrangement). The modern system relies on dedicated carriers,
usually for-profit, to offer protection against specified perils in
consideration
of a
premium .
Liability insurance is designed to offer specific protection against
third party insurance claims, i.e., payment is not typically made to the
insured, but rather to someone suffering loss who is not a party to the
insurance contract. In general, damage caused intentionally as well as
contractual liability are not covered under liability insurance
policies. When a claim is made, the insurance carrier has the duty (and
right) to defend the insured. The legal costs of a defense normally do
not affect policy limits unless the policy expressly states otherwise;
this default rule is useful because defense costs tend to soar when
cases go to trial.
Read more »
0
Comments
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share to Pinterest
Labels：
Insurance
Aviation insurance
Aviation insurance
is insurance coverage geared specifically to
the operation of aircraft and the risks involved in aviation. Aviation
insurance policies are distinctly different from those for other areas
of transportation and tend to incorporate aviation terminology, as well
as terminology, limits and clauses specific to aviation insurance.
Aviation
Insurance was first introduced in the early years of the 20th Century. The first aviation insurance policy was written by
Lloyd's of London
in 1911. The company stopped writing aviation policies in 1912 after
bad weather and the resulting crashes at an air meet caused losses on
many of those first policies.
The first aviation polices were underwritten by the marine insurance
underwriting
community. The first specialist aviation insurers emerged in 1924.
In 1929 the
Warsaw convention
was signed. The convention was an agreement to establish terms,
conditions and limitations of liability for carriage by air, this was
the first recognition of the airline industry as we know it today.
In 1931, Captain A. G. Lamplugh, the British Aviation Insurance
Company's chief underwriter and principal surveyor, said of the new
industry: "Aviation in itself is not inherently dangerous. But to an
even greater degree than the sea, it is terribly unforgiving of any
carelessness, incapacity or neglect."
Read more »
0
Comments
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share to Pinterest
Labels：
Insurance
Flood insurance
Flood insurance
denotes the specific
insurance
coverage against property loss from
flooding . To determine risk factors for specific properties, insurers will often refer to
topographical maps
that denote
lowlands ,
floodplains
and floodways that are susceptible to flooding.
Nationwide, only 20% of American homes at risk for floods are covered
by flood insurance. Most private insurers do not insure against the
peril of flood due to the prevalence of
adverse selection ,
which is the purchase of insurance by persons most affected by the
specific peril of flood. In traditional insurance, insurers use the
economic law of large numbers to charge a relatively small fee to large
numbers of people in order to pay the claims of the small numbers of
claimants who have suffered a loss. Unfortunately, in flood insurance,
the numbers of claimants is larger than the available number of persons
interested in protecting their property from the peril, which means that
most private insurers view the probability of generating a profit from
providing flood insurance as being very remote. However, there are insurers such as Chubb, AIG/Chartis, Fireman's Fund
that do provice privatly written primary flood insurance for high value
homes and The Natural Catastrophe Insurance Program underwritten by Certain
Underwriters at Lloyd's which provides private primary flood insurance
on both low value and high value buildings.
Read more »
0
Comments
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share to Pinterest
Labels：
Insurance
Wikipedia article:Property insurance
Property insurance
provides protection against most risks to
property , such as fire, theft and some weather damage. This includes specialized forms of
insurance
such as fire insurance,
flood insurance ,
earthquake insurance ,
home insurance
or
boiler insurance . Property is
insured
in two main ways—open perils and named perils. Open perils cover all
the causes of loss not specifically excluded in the policy. Common
exclusions on open peril policies include damage resulting from
earthquakes, floods, nuclear incidents, acts of terrorism and war. Named
perils require the actual cause of loss to be listed in the policy for
insurance to be provided. The more common named perils include such
damage-causing events as fire, lightning, explosion and theft.
Types of Coverage
There are three types of insurance coverage. Replacement cost
coverage pays the cost of replacing your property regardless of
depreciation or appreciation. Premiums for this type of coverage are
based on replacement cost values, and not based on actual cash value.  Actual cash value
coverage provides for replacement cost minus depreciation. Extended
replacement cost will pay over the coverage limit if the costs for
construction have increased. This generally will not exceed 25% of the
limit. When you obtain an insurance policy, the coverage limit
established is the maximum amount the insurance company will pay out in
case of loss of property. This amount will need to fluctuate if homes in your neighborhood are
rising; the amount needs to be in step with the actual value of your
home. In case of a fire, household content replacement is tabulated as a
percentage of the value of the home. In case of high value items, the
insurance company may ask to specifically cover these items separate
from the other household contents. One last coverage option is to have
alternative living arrangements included in a policy. If a fire leaves your home uninhabitable, the policy can help pay for a hotel or other living arrangements.
Read more »
0
Comments
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share to Pinterest
Labels：
Insurance
Older Posts
Home
Subscribe to:
Posts (Atom)
Labels
Attorney
(2)
Credit
(16)
Insurance
(17)
Loan
(4)
Mortgage
(1)
Blog Archive
July 2012
(39)
Simple template. Powered by
Blogger .