NOVIARLI'S MEDIA | Aerospace, Business, Technology, Exploration, Photography
NOVIARLI'S MEDIA
Aerospace, Business, Technology, Exploration, Photography
ABOUT
Posted by:
noviarli
| April 16, 2011
MAPS
Cartography is the art and science of expressing the known physical features of the earth graphically by maps and charts. No one knows who drew, molded, laced together, or scratched out in the dirt the first map. But a study of history reveals that the most pressing demands for accuracy and detail in mapping have come as the result of military needs. Today, the complexities of tactical operations and deployment of troops are such that it is essential for all soldiers to be able to read and interpret their maps in order to move quickly and effectively on the battlefield. This chapter includes the definition and purpose of a map and describes map security, types, categories, and scales.
Leave a Comment
Posted in
Exploration
Posted by:
noviarli
| April 4, 2011
CIREMAI EXPEDITION
Expedition to Mount Ciremai, highest mountain (3078 m above sea level)
in West Java, participated by 3 men. Climbing started on 12/02/2011 by
using Palutungan track from Kuningan, descending finished on 14/02/2011
by using Apuy track to Majalengka.
Actual GPS track can be seen on following links :
Palutungan Track
Apuy Track
Leave a Comment
Posted in
Exploration
| Tags:
CIREMAI
Posted by:
noviarli
| April 4, 2011
N219 CUTAWAY
1 Comment
Posted in
Aerospace
| Tags:
CUTAWAY ,
N 219
Posted by:
noviarli
| April 4, 2011
Depati Amir – Soetta
Recorded flight track of Boeing B737 Garuda Indonesia, from Depati Amir to Soekarno Hatta Airport, on Sept 14, 2010.
There was drastic change of altitude profile on descend phase of flight,
because I calibrate GPS altitude manually base on announcement from
pilot at 25000 feet above sea level.
Please click following link for details :
http://www.wikiloc.com/wikiloc/view.do?&id=1213717
Leave a Comment
Posted in
Exploration
| Tags:
GPS track
Posted by:
noviarli
| April 4, 2011
Aerospace Engineering
Aerospace engineering
is the branch of
engineering
behind the design, construction and science of
aircraft
and
spacecraft . It is broken into two major and overlapping branches:
aeronautical
engineering and
astronautical
engineering. The former deals with craft that stay within
Earth ‘s
atmosphere , and the latter deals with craft that operate outside of Earth’s atmosphere.
Aerospace engineering deals with the design, construction, and
science behind the forces and physical properties of aircraft, rockets,
flying craft, and spacecraft. The field also covers their
aerodynamic
characteristics and behaviors,
airfoil ,
control surfaces ,
lift ,
drag ,
and other properties. Aerospace engineering is not to be confused with
the various other fields of engineering that go into designing these
complex craft. For example, the design of aircraft
avionics , while certainly part of the system as a whole, would rather be considered
electrical engineering , or perhaps
computer engineering . The
landing gear
system on an aircraft may fall into the field of
mechanical engineering , and so forth. It is typically a large combination of many disciplines that makes up aeronautical engineering.
While
aeronautical engineering
was the original term, the broader “ aerospace ” has superseded it in usage, as flight technology advanced to include craft operating in
outer space . Aerospace engineering, particularly the astronautics branch, is often informally called “ rocket science “.
Overview
Flight vehicles undergo severe conditions such as differences in
atmospheric pressure , and
temperature , with
structural loads
applied upon vehicle components. Consequently, they are usually the
products of various technological and engineering disciplines including
aerodynamics ,
propulsion ,
avionics ,
materials science ,
structural analysis
and
manufacturing .
These technologies are collectively known as aerospace engineering.
Because of the complexity of the field, aerospace engineering is
conducted by a team of engineers, each specializing in their own
branches of science.
The development and manufacturing of a modern flight vehicle is an
extremely complex process and demands careful balance and compromise
between abilities, design, available technology and costs. Aerospace
engineers design, test, and supervise the manufacture of aircraft,
spacecraft, and missiles. Aerospace engineers develop new technologies
for use in aviation, defense systems, and space exploration.
History
Alberto Santos-Dumont , a pioneer who built the first machines able to fly, played an important role in the development of
aviation . Some of the first ideas for powered flight may have come from
Leonardo da Vinci , who, although he did not build any successful models, did develop many sketches and ideas for “ flying machines “.
Orville and Wilbur Wright
flew the
Wright Flyer
I, the first airplane, on December 17, 1903 at Kitty Hawk, North Carolina.
The origin of aerospace engineering can be traced back to the
aviation pioneers around the late 19th century to early 20th centuries,
although the work of
Sir George Cayley
has recently been dated as being from the last decade of the 18th to
mid 19th century. One of the most important people in the history of
aeronautics , Cayley was a pioneer in aeronautical engineering and is credited as the first person to separate the forces of
lift
and
drag , which are in effect on any flight vehicle. Early knowledge of aeronautical engineering was largely empirical with
some concepts and skills imported from other branches of engineering.
Scientists understood some key elements of aerospace engineering , like
fluid dynamics , in the 18th century. Several years later after the successful flights by the
Wright brothers , the 1910s saw the development of aeronautical engineering through the design of
World War I
military aircraft.
The first definition of aerospace engineering appeared in February 1958.
The definition considered the Earth’s atmosphere and the outer space as a single realm, thereby encompassing both aircraft ( aero ) and spacecraft ( space ) under a newly coined word
aerospace . The
National Aeronautics and Space Administration
was founded in 1958 as a response to the Cold War. United States
aerospace engineers launched the first American satellite on January 31,
1958 in response to the USSR launching
Sputnik
on October 4, 1957.
Elements
Wernher von Braun , with the
F-1
engines of the
Saturn V
first stage at the
US Space and Rocket Center
A fighter jet engine undergoing testing. The tunnel behind the engine muffles noise and allows exhaust to escape.
Some of the elements of aerospace engineering are:
Fluid mechanics
– the study of
fluid
flow around objects. Specifically
aerodynamics
concerning the flow of air over bodies such as
wings
or through objects such as
wind tunnels
(see also
lift
and
aeronautics ).
Astrodynamics
– the study of
orbital mechanics
including prediction of orbital elements when given a select few
variables. While few schools in the United States teach this at the
undergraduate level, several have graduate programs covering this topic
(usually in conjunction with the Physics department of said college or
university).
Statics
and
Dynamics
(engineering mechanics) – the study of movement, forces, moments in mechanical systems.
Mathematics
– in particular,
calculus ,
differential equations , and
linear algebra .
Electrotechnology
– the study of electronics within engineering.
Propulsion – the energy to move a vehicle through the air (or in outer space) is provided by
internal combustion engines ,
jet engines
and
turbomachinery , or
rockets
(see also
propeller
and
spacecraft propulsion ). A more recent addition to this module is
electric propulsion
and
ion propulsion .
Control engineering
– the study of mathematical modeling of the
dynamic
behavior of systems and designing them, usually using feedback signals,
so that their dynamic behavior is desirable (stable, without large
excursions, with minimum error). This applies to the dynamic behavior of
aircraft, spacecraft, propulsion systems, and subsystems that exist on
aerospace vehicles.
Aircraft structures
–
design of the physical configuration of the craft to withstand the
forces encountered during flight. Aerospace engineering aims to keep
structures lightweight.
Materials science
–
related to structures, aerospace engineering also studies the materials
of which the aerospace structures are to be built. New materials with
very specific properties are invented, or existing ones are modified to
improve their performance.
Solid mechanics
–
Closely related to material science is solid mechanics which deals with
stress and strain analysis of the components of the vehicle. Nowadays
there are several Finite Element programs such as MSC Patran/Nastran
which aid engineers in the analytical process.
Aeroelasticity
– the interaction of aerodynamic forces and structural flexibility, potentially causing
flutter , divergence, etc.
Avionics
– the design and programming of computer systems on board an aircraft or spacecraft and the simulation of systems.
Software
–
the specification, design, development, test, and implementation of
computer software for aerospace applications, including flight software,
ground control software, test & evaluation software, etc.
Risk and reliability
– the study of risk and reliability assessment techniques and the mathematics involved in the quantitative methods.
Noise control
– the study of the mechanics of sound transfer.
Flight test
– designing and executing flight test programs in order to gather and analyze performance and
handling qualities
data in order to determine if an aircraft meets its design and performance goals and certification requirements.
The basis of most of these elements lies in theoretical
mathematics , such as
fluid dynamics
for aerodynamics or the
equations of motion
for
flight dynamics . There is also a large
empirical
component. Historically, this empirical component was derived from
testing of scale models and prototypes, either in wind tunnels or in the
free atmosphere. More recently, advances in
computing
have enabled the use of
computational fluid dynamics
to simulate the behavior of fluid, reducing time and expense spent on wind-tunnel testing.
Additionally, aerospace engineering addresses the integration of all
components that constitute an aerospace vehicle (subsystems including
power,
aerospace bearings , communications,
thermal control ,
life support , etc.) and its life cycle (design, temperature, pressure,
radiation ,
velocity ,
lifetime ).
Leave a Comment
Posted in
Aerospace
| Tags:
Aerospace
Posted by:
noviarli
| April 4, 2011
Aeronautics
Aeronautics
(from
Greek
ὰήρ
āēr
which means “air” and ναυτική
nautikē
which means “navigation, seamanship”, i.e. “navigation of the air”) is the
science
involved with the study, design, and manufacturing of
flight -capable machines, or the techniques of operating
aircraft . While the term—literally meaning “sailing the air”—originally referred solely to the science of
operating
the aircraft, it has since been expanded to include technology, business and other aspects related to aircraft.
One of the significant parts in aeronautics is a branch of
physical science
called
aerodynamics , which deals with the motion of
air
and the way that it interacts with objects in motion, such as an aircraft.
Aviation
is a term sometimes used interchangeably with aeronautics, although “aeronautics” includes lighter-than-air craft such as
airships , while “aviation” does not.
Early aeronautics
Francesco Lana de Terzi ‘s flying boat concept c.1670.
The first mention of aeronautics in history was in the writings of
ancient Egyptians who described the flight of birds. It also finds
mention in ancient China where people were flying kites thousands of
years ago. The medieval Islamic scientists were not far behind, as they
understood the actual mechanism of bird flight. Before scientific
investigation of aeronautics started, people started thinking of ways to
fly. In a Greek legend,
Icarus
and his father
Daedalus
built wings of feathers and wax and flew out of a prison. Icarus flew
too close to the sun, the wax melted, and he fell in the sea and
drowned. When people started to scientifically study how to fly, people
began to understand the basics of air and aerodynamics.
Ibn Firnas
may have tried to fly in 8th century in
Cordoba ,
Al-Andalus .
Roger Bacon
and
Leonardo da Vinci
were some of the first modern Europeans to study aeronautics. Leonardo
studied the flight of birds in developing engineering schematics for
some of the earliest flying machines in the late fifteenth century AD.
His schematics, however, such as the ornithopter ultimately failed as
practical aircraft. The flapping machines that he designed were either
too small to generate sufficient lift, or too heavy for a human to
operate.
Although the ornithopter continues to be of interest to hobbyists, it was replaced by the glider in the 19th century.
Sir George Cayley
was one of the most important people in the history of aeronautics.
Many consider him the first true scientific aerial investigator and the
first person to understand the underlying principles and forces of
flight.
A pioneer of
aeronautical engineering , he is credited as the first person to separate the forces of
lift
and
drag
which are in effect on any flight vehicle.
Francesco Lana de Terzi , a 17th century
Jesuit
professor of physics and mathematics from
Brescia ,
Lombardy , has been referred to as the Father of Aeronautics.
In his work
Prodromo dell’Arte Maestra
(1670) he proposes a
lighter-than-air
vessel based on logical deductions from previous work ranging from
Archimedes
and
Euclid
to his contemporaries
Robert Boyle
and
Otto von Guericke .
Early Aviation Research
Many cultures have built devices that travel through the air, from the earliest projectiles such as stones and spears, the
boomerang
in
Australia , the hot air
Kongming lantern , and
kites . There are early legends of human flight such as the story of
Icarus , and
Jamshid
in Persian myth, and later, somewhat more credible claims of
short-distance human flights appear, such as the flying automaton of
Archytas
of
Tarentum
(428–347 BC),
the winged flights of
Abbas Ibn Firnas
(810–887),
Eilmer of Malmesbury
(11th century), and the hot-air
Passarola
of
Bartolomeu Lourenço de Gusmão
(1685–1724).
The modern age of aviation began with the first untethered human lighter-than-air flight on November 21, 1783, in a
hot air balloon
designed by the
Montgolfier brothers .
The practicality of balloons was limited because they could only travel
downwind. It was immediately recognized that a steerable, or
dirigible , balloon was required.
Jean-Pierre Blanchard
flew the first human-powered dirigible in 1784 and crossed the English Channel in one in 1785.
In 1799
Sir George Cayley
set forth the concept of the modern airplane as a fixed-wing flying
machine with separate systems for lift, propulsion, and control.
Early dirigible developments included machine-powered propulsion ( Henri Giffard , 1852), rigid frames ( David Schwarz , 1896), and improved speed and maneuverability ( Alberto Santos-Dumont , 1901)
Early Aviation
First assisted take-off flight by the
Wright Brothers , December 17, 1903
While there are
many competing claims
for the earliest powered, heavier-than-air flight, the most
widely-accepted date is December 17, 1903 by the Wright brothers. The
Wright brothers were the first to fly in a powered and controlled
aircraft. Previous flights were gliders (control but no power) or free
flight (power but no control), but the Wright brothers combined both,
setting the new standard in aviation records. Following this, the
widespread adoption of
ailerons
versus wing warping made aircraft much easier to control, and only a decade later, at the start of
World War I ,
heavier-than-air powered aircraft had become practical for
reconnaissance, artillery spotting, and even attacks against ground
positions.
Aircraft began to transport people and cargo as designs grew larger and more reliable. In contrast to small non-rigid
blimps , giant
rigid airships
became the first aircraft to transport passengers and cargo over great
distances. The best known aircraft of this type were manufactured by the
German
Zeppelin
company.
Hindenburg
at
Lakehurst Naval Air Station , 1936
The most successful Zeppelin was the
Graf Zeppelin .
It flew over one million miles, including an around-the-world flight in
August 1929. However, the dominance of the Zeppelins over the airplanes
of that period, which had a range of only a few hundred miles, was
diminishing as airplane design advanced. The “Golden Age” of the
airships ended on May 6, 1937 when the
Hindenburg
caught fire, killing 36 people. Although there have been periodic
initiatives to revive their use, airships have seen only niche
application since that time.
Great progress was made in the field of aviation during the 1920s and 1930s, such as
Charles Lindbergh’s
solo transatlantic flight in 1927, and
Charles Kingsford Smith ‘s transpacific flight the following year. One of the most successful designs of this period was the
Douglas DC-3 , which became the first
airliner
that was profitable carrying passengers exclusively, starting the modern era of passenger airline service. By the beginning of
World War II ,
many towns and cities had built airports, and there were numerous
qualified pilots available. The war brought many innovations to
aviation, including the first
jet
aircraft and the first liquid-fueled
rockets .
Modern Aviation
NASA ‘s
Helios
researches
solar powered
flight.
After
World War II , especially in
North America , there was a boom in
general aviation ,
both private and commercial, as thousands of pilots were released from
military service and many inexpensive war-surplus transport and training
aircraft became available. Manufacturers such as
Cessna ,
Piper , and
Beechcraft
expanded production to provide light aircraft for the new middle-class market.
By the 1950s, the development of civil jets grew, beginning with the
de Havilland Comet , though the first widely-used passenger jet was the
Boeing 707 , because it was much more economical than other planes at the time. At the same time,
turboprop
propulsion began to appear for smaller commuter planes, making it
possible to serve small-volume routes in a much wider range of weather
conditions.
Since the 1960s,
composite
airframes and quieter, more efficient engines have become available, and
Concorde
provided supersonic passenger service for more than two decades, but
the most important lasting innovations have taken place in
instrumentation and control. The arrival of
solid-state
electronics, the
Global Positioning System ,
satellite communications , and increasingly small and powerful
computers
and
LED
displays, have dramatically changed the cockpits of
airliners
and, increasingly, of smaller aircraft as well. Pilots can navigate
much more accurately and view terrain, obstructions, and other nearby
aircraft on a map or through
synthetic vision , even at night or in low visibility.
On June 21, 2004,
SpaceShipOne
became the first privately funded aircraft to make a
spaceflight ,
opening the possibility of an aviation market capable of leaving the
Earth’s atmosphere. Meanwhile, flying prototypes of aircraft powered by
alternative fuels, such as
ethanol ,
electricity , and even
solar energy , are becoming more common and may soon enter the mainstream, at least for light aircraft.
Leave a Comment
Posted in
Aerospace
| Tags:
Aeronautics
Categories
Aerospace
Exploration
Blog Stats
2,213 hits
Calendar
October 2015
M
T
W
T
F
S
S
« Apr
1 2 3 4
5 6 7 8 9 10 11
12 13 14 15 16 17 18
19 20 21 22 23 24 25
26 27 28 29 30 31
Categories
Categories
Select Category
Aerospace  (3)
Exploration  (3)
Create a free website or blog at WordPress.com . |
The Ocean Mist Theme .
Follow
Follow “NOVIARLI'S MEDIA”
Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.
Build a website with WordPress.com