Supernatural -
Metal Teeth Chomp: List of Episodes
skip to main
|
skip to sidebar
Tuesday, January 6, 2009
List of Episodes
#
Title
Original Airdate
Supernatural Legend
1
" Pilot "
September 13, 2005
Woman in White
At a young age,
Sam
and
Dean Winchester
witnessed the unexplainable death of
their mother , which in turn led
their father
to teach them skills which could be of use in the search for whatever it was that took her life. Years later, while attending Stanford University, Sam finds himself brought back into the paranormal world by his older brother, who has come to tell him their father has mysteriously disappeared. The two hit the road in Jericho, California, about 2 hours' drive from Stanford to find him and are soon sidelined in a small town where a ghostly
Woman in White
( Sarah Shahi ) has been taking male victims. After Dean and Sam kill the Woman in White Dean departs. As Sam returns home after the hunting trip he sees his girlfriend pinned to a wall and the house blazes on fire. A that precise moment Dean enters and rushes Sam outside.
2
" Wendigo "
September 20, 2005
Wendigo
After following instructions found in their dad's
journal , Sam and Dean pose as park rangers to help a brother and sister search for their lost brother, who the Winchester brothers believe may have been taken by a
Wendigo . Dean soon learns that Wendigo can only be killed by fire, so the brothers resort to using a flare gun to kill Wendigo. When Dean and Sam ente its lair, they seperate and Sam gets attacked by Wendigo. At the point where it seems Sam is doomed, Dean appears killing Wendigo.
3
" Dead in the Water "
September 27, 2005
Vengeful Spirit
Dean learns about a mysterious drowning victim in Wisconsin. The brothers come to believe that a
spirit
is haunting the lake, causing this and other drownings.
4
" Phantom Traveler "
October 4, 2005
Demon
Dean and Sam get a phone call about a
demon
which possesses those who are afraid of flying and causes planes to crash. Sam and Dean are forced to face the demon aboard a plane, where Dean also faces his fear of flying. In the end Sam finds an exorcism and uses it to exorcise the demon
5
" Bloody Mary "
October 11, 2005
Bloody Mary
Dean and Sam go to
Toledo, Ohio , to investigate the mysterious death of a man who lost his eyes. They learn that
Bloody Mary
is haunting the town through a mirror on which a murder victim (named Mary) attempted to write the name of her killer. To kill Bloody Mary the bothers hunt dow the mirror in which Mary first appeared to smash it when she appears in it. When the brothers find out that Mary has escaped after Dean smashed the mirror Dean uses Mary's trick against her.
6
" Skin "
October 18, 2005
Shapeshifter
It starts off with Dean trying to kill a girlSam's college friend Zach has been arrested for murdering his girlfriend in St. Louis, Missouri. They visit Zach's sister, Rebecca, and help her investigate the murder. They discover that the real culprit is a being with
shapeshifting
abilities, who takes the form of Dean and tries to kill Sam. Sean comes in and kills the imposter witha silver bullet.
7
" Hook Man "
October 25, 2005
Hookman
Dean and Sam investigate the death of a student at a college. The student's girlfriend Lori says the attacker was invisible. More attacks occur, all connected to the girl. They discover that
Hookman
is behind the killings, and that she is unknowingly summoning him.
8
" Bugs "
November 8, 2005
Native American
Curse
Dean and Sam check out the mysterious death of a construction worker on a new housing development. Soon the town is invaded by swarms of deadly bugs, which they originally suspect are being controlled by someone, but the cause turns out to be an Indian curse.
9
" Home "
November 15, 2005
Poltergeist / Spirit
Sam has nightmares of their old home, and the brothers return to
Lawrence, Kansas
to investigate. They discover that a new family has moved into the home, and enlist the help of their father's psychic friend, Missouri, to rid the house of a
poltergeist
which is menacing Jenny (the new owner) and her children.
10
" Asylum "
November 22, 2005
Spirits
After receiving a tip from their father, Sam and Dean travel to Rockford, Illinois, to investigate the haunted Roosevelt Asylum. An evil force inside causes Sam to lose his sanity and tries to kill Dean.
11
" Scarecrow "
January 10, 2006
Living Scarecrow/ Vanir
Sam and Dean investigate the disappearances of young couples in a rural
Indiana
town. They have a falling out, and split up. The scarecrow is a
Vanir
which protects the town at a price. A dark force is against the Winchester family. Sam meets
Meg Masters .
12
" Faith "
January 17, 2006
Reaper
While battling a
Rawhead , Dean gets electrocuted and his heart is damaged. Sam searches for a way to save him and believes he may have found an answer; a preacher who heals the incurable. However, Dean and Sam discover that the preacher is getting help from a Reaper (similar to the
Grim Reaper ).
13
" Route 666 "
January 31, 2006
Vengeful Spirit
Dean is contacted by his first love Cassie ( Megalyn Echikunwoke ), who asks him to come to Cape Girardeau in Missouri to investigate a string of racially motivated murders. Each murder is linked to a mysterious truck that seems to have no driver and leave no tracks.
14
" Nightmare "
February 7, 2006
Psychic / Telekinesis
Sam has a
premonition
that a man was killed in
Saginaw , Michigan, but the murder looks like a suicide. They fail to find anything supernatural until they meet Max, who has been using his
telekinetic
power to kill his abusive family members. This is the only episode where Sam is seen using his powers of telekinesis.
15
" The
Benders "
February 14, 2006
None (Murderous Family)
Sam and Dean head to Hibbing, Minnesota, where a young boy (Ryan Drescher) witnesses a man vanish into thin air. While investigating, Sam is abducted. Dean is left to team up with a female cop. They are stunned when the kidnappers are humans—they are named after
a real family of serial killers .
16
" Shadow "
February 28, 2006
Shadow Demons/ Daevas
Sam and Dean run into Meg while investigating a death in Chicago. They discover she is behind the murders, and Meg unleashes shadow spirits on the brothers in an ambush. Sam and Dean realize the trap isn't for them, but for their father.
17
" Hell House "
March 30, 2006
Tulpa
They investigate a house haunted by the ghost of Mordecai, a man who reportedly killed his six daughters during the 1930s. The brothers discover a website named Hell Hound's Lair, run by paranormal investigators and realize the town is unknowingly using it to conjure up a
tulpa .
18
" Something Wicked "
April 6, 2006
Shtriga
Sam and Dean investigate a small town where children are falling into comas. The brothers discover that a
shtriga
is stealing their "life force." Also, Dean recalls a past mistake that almost cost Sam his life at the hands of the very same witch.
19
" Provenance "
April 13, 2006
Living Portrait/Spirit
Sam and Dean investigate a painting; everyone who has ever bought the painting has been murdered, and they race to discover how the portrait is causing the deaths before it can claim its next victim. Also, Sam finds a possible love interest in Sarah Blake.
20
" Dead Man's Blood "
April 20, 2006
Vampires
A vampire hunter is murdered in Manning, Colorado, and John shows up to solve the case. John discovers the vampires have taken an antique gun, the Colt, which, when loaded with its accompanying bullets, has the power to kill any living or supernatural being. As they gain the colt Dean's father uses it to kill the vampire who held Sam hostage leaving the Colt with only 4 more bullets.
21
" Salvation "
April 27, 2006
Demon
Sam has a vision of a family being attacked by the demon, so he, Dean, and John head off to save the family and nearly kill the demon using the Colt gun. Meg calls them and John meets Meg to deliver a fake gun, while the boys are left to deal with the demon.
22
" Devil's Trap "
May 4, 2006
Demon
On a mission to save their father from Meg, Sam and Dean lure her into a special demon trap at
Bobby Singer 's auto shop in Memphis. They
exorcise
the demon from her body. They save John but on the way to the hospital they get into a car crash that is not as it appears. It ends with the camera staring at the bloodied bodies of the Winchesters.
Season 2: 2006-2007
Main article:
Supernatural (season 2)
#
Title
Original Airdate
Supernatural Legend
23 (2.01)
" In My Time of Dying "
September 28, 2006
Reaper / Demon
The series picks up where it left off, and the Winchesters are taken to a hospital in Memphis. Dean is in a coma and a
grim reaper
is trying to take his soul. Later Dean learns that by refusing to move on he might become a spirit just like the ones they fight. Sam tries without success to save his brother, but John makes a deal with The Yellow Eyed Demon to save his son's life in exchange for his own life and his much appreciated Colt. In the end John dies.
24 (2.02)
" Everybody Loves a Clown "
October 5, 2006
Evil Clown / Rakshasa
Sam and Dean burn their father's body, and the brothers meet fellow hunters Ash, Ellen, and Jo. Sam and Dean join the circus to track a
Hindu
demon called a
Rakshasa
that disguises itself as a clown to trick children into letting them into the house to devour their parents.
25 (2.03)
" Bloodlust "
October 12, 2006
Vampires
The brothers team up with Gordon, a hunter, to kill
vampires . But Sam learns that the vampires Gordon is hunting are reformed, surviving only on cow blood. The brothers find themselves in a role-reversal, protecting vampires from one of their fellow hunters and rescuing Lenore from possible danger. Dean is still hurt about his father's death.
26 (2.04)
" Children Shouldn't Play With Dead Things "
October 19, 2006
Zombie
Dean and Sam meet Neil Levine, a heartbroken college kid who uses
necromancy
to bring back his crush from the dead. But she returns as an angry
zombie , bent on killing her boyfriend and her best friend.
27 (2.05)
" Simon Said "
October 26, 2006
Psychic
The brothers meet Andy Gallagher, a modern-day hippie near Sam's age with the ability to control minds. But he attracts attention when people start committing suicide after receiving mysterious mobile phone calls.
28 (2.06)
" No Exit "
November 2, 2006
Spirit
Sam and Dean investigate the brutal slaying of blonde women from an apartment building. The spirit responsible is the ghost of
H. H. Holmes , a methodical killer who was often cited as America's first serial murderer. Jo follows the brothers and tries to help, but ends up saved, along with Theresa from being victims by Sam & Dean.
29 (2.07)
" The Usual Suspects "
November 9, 2006
Death Omen /human
The Winchester brothers begin investigating the mysterious death of lawyer Anthony Giles, and his wife Karen, but when Diana Ballard ( Linda Blair ) and Pete Sheridan from the Baltimore P.D. look into the boys' records, Dean ends up behind bars for murder. Sam and Dean try to convince the cops they are innocent of the crimes.
30 (2.08)
" Crossroad Blues "
November 16, 2006
Crossroads Demon
Sam and Dean try to help a man who has sold his soul to a demon to save the life of his terminally-ill wife. The same demon attempts to seduce Dean by trying to convince him to trade his soul for his father's. She claims John is now suffering in Hell for saving Dean.
31 (2.09)
" Croatoan "
December 7, 2006
Demon /Demonic Virus
Sam and Dean go to a town called Rivergrove after Sam has a very powerful vision. They think demons are trying to wipe out the entire town from the inside out through possession, however it turns out to be a blood transported virus that turns people violent and drives them to infect others. Sam gets attacked and infected, but is apparently immune to the virus, which seems to have been made for the purpose of testing him.
32 (2.10)
" Hunted "
January 11, 2007
Psychic
Dean reveals the secret John told him at the beginning of the season, causing a distraught Sam to leave Dean in search of answers. Sam meets Ava, a psychic who has had a vision of Sam's death. Dean discovers Gordon is after Sam and races to find his brother in time to save him.
33 (2.11)
" Playthings "
January 18, 2007
Spirit
Sam and Dean investigate a town where several people have mysteriously died and the trail leads to a young girl who lives at an inn with her mother, and whose imaginary friend may be responsible for the deaths.
34 (2.12)
" Nightshifter "
January 25, 2007
Shapeshifter
After Sam and Dean are told recent crimes have been committed by a half-man, half-robot, they quickly discover that a shape shifter is actually responsible for the thefts, and set off to a local bank, hoping to catch the shifter before he does any more harm in Milwaukee. FBI agent Victor Henricksen arrives on the scene, revealing that he knows about the Winchesters and has been hunting them down for their involvement in a number of crimes.
35 (2.13)
" Houses of the Holy "
February 1, 2007
Angel / Spirit
Sam and Dean investigate a case where people who have committed murder claim that an angel told them to do so. The boys are skeptical until Sam sees the angel for himself and goes to see the priest at the local church to get some answers.
36 (2.14)
" Born Under a Bad Sign "
February 8, 2007
Demon
Sam has been missing for over a week when Dean finds him covered in blood with no memory of what has happened. Dean has to figure out if his little brother is going dark side, or if there's more than meets the eye.
37 (2.15)
" Tall Tales "
February 15, 2007
Trickster
Sam and Dean call on fellow hunter Bobby (Jim Beaver) for help with violent occurrences on a college campus, but Bobby has suspicions about both the culprit and the brothers' escalating feud, telling them to resolve it straight away.
38 (2.16)
" Roadkill "
March 15, 2007
Vengeful
Spirit /Lost Spirt
Sam and Dean attempt to help a woman named Molly ( Tricia Helfer ), who is being stalked by a farmer who annually haunts a highway and kills someone.
39 (2.17)
" Heart "
March 22, 2007
Werewolf
Sam and Dean are on the trail of a
werewolf
but their only lead is Madison ( Emmanuelle Vaugier ) whose former boyfriend has been stalking her, and Sam finds himself falling for her.
40 (2.18)
" Hollywood Babylon "
April 19, 2007
Spirits
Sam and Dean are drawn to a studio in the process of creating a horror movie. When a crew member is found dead on the ceiling by one of the main actors, Sam and Dean investigate.
41 (2.19)
" Folsom Prison Blues "
April 26, 2007
Spirit
Sam and Dean allow themselves to be arrested in order to investigate a series of murders inside a penitentiary. However things get complicated when Henricksen shows up to take over their case.
42 (2.20)
" What Is and What Should Never Be "
May 3, 2007
Djinn
Dean gets attacked by a
Djinn , a creature capable of warping reality. The next things he knows he's in Lawrence, Kansas, in a stable relationship with a woman named Carmen, his mother is alive and well, and he and Sam are no longer on speaking terms. When the idea of a peaceful existence begins to settle in, visions of his previous life as a hunter start appearing out of nowhere.
43 (2.21)
" All Hell Breaks Loose, Part 1 "
May 10, 2007
Demon / Cold Oak
Sam and other "special children" are abducted by the Yellow-Eyed Demon (Azazel) and taken to a ghost town, where the ultimate battle begins.
44 (2.22)
" All Hell Breaks Loose, Part 2 "
May 17, 2007
Demon / Hell Gates / Crossroads Demon
Dean deals with the outcome of the fight between Sam and Jake. Meanwhile, the Yellow-Eyed Demon uses his new servants to help unleash the hordes of hell. When Dean and Sam enter the zone where the gates of Hell are to be opened a bloody battle takes place. This battle is the happiness of everyone as Dean finally finishes off Azazel using the last bullet of the colt. Sam finds out that Dean made a deal to save Sam and Sam intends to save them. It ends with Bobby telling the brothers that they're up against a war.
Season 3: 2007-2008
Main article:
Supernatural (season 3)
#
Title
Original Airdate
Supernatural Legend
45 (3.01)
" The Magnificent Seven "
October 4, 2007
Demons ( Seven Deadly Sins )
Bracing themselves for the possibility of an apocalyptic war, Sam and Dean realize they have an enormous task of hunting down the hundreds of demons that escaped from the Devil's Gate. With only a year left to live, Dean decides to live life to the fullest and exhibits a carefree attitude that troubles Sam, who is trying to find a loophole in the deal. Bobby tells the brothers about a sighting in Nebraska, that turns out to be seven demons that are the actual manifestations of the
Seven Deadly Sins .
Ruby
appears for the first time and seems to be stalking Sam.
46 (3.02)
" The Kids Are Alright "
October 11, 2007
Changeling
Sam and Dean track down
changelings
that are pursuing mothers and their children. A boy they protect bears a strange resemblance to Dean, which at first makes Dean uncomfortable because he once had a
one-night stand
with the boy's mother Lisa. Sam learns more about his family roots and is offered a possible way to save Dean via a proposition from Ruby who appears again and shows Sam her form.
47 (3.03)
" Bad Day At Black Rock "
October 18, 2007
Rabbit's Foot /Cursed
Amulet
Word continues to spread of the Winchesters and the opening of a devil's gate, with them to blame. The Winchesters suddenly find their luck rising after finding a rabbit's foot. But Bobby tells Sam that the foot is cursed and brings death to the person who loses it.
Bela Talbot
appears for the first time and steals the foot from Sam, causing him a string of bad luck. Dean decides to hunt for Bela after leaving Sam in a hotel room to prevent him from doing any more damage with his bad luck. While Dean is gone Kubrick discovers Sam's whereabouts and because he believes it's God's will, he attempts to kill Sam. Dean arrives just in time to prevent Sam's death.
48 (3.04)
" Sin City "
October 25, 2007
Demon
Sam and Dean investigate a rash of violent deaths in Elizabethville, Ohio, a once-sleepy town that has been turned into a haven for gamblers and drinkers. Dean discovers two demons have infiltrated Elizabethville and believe that they are using their powers of persuasion to make the townspeople succumb to their basic instincts. Dean uses a devil's trap to capture one of the demons, and it manages to trap Dean as well, and the demon tells Dean about their motives. Meanwhile, Ruby helps Bobby give the Colt more bullets.
49 (3.05)
" Bedtime Stories "
November 1, 2007
Vengeful Spirit
Fairy tales come to life when the brothers investigate Callie, a young girl who seems to personify Snow White. Poisoned by her stepmother and trapped in a coma, her spirit becomes angrier as more time passes. Callie's father visits her constantly, reading her original Brothers Grimm stories and unknowingly inspiring her carnage. After putting her spirit to rest, Sam meets the crossroads demon named Nicole to "make a deal" - either release Dean from his bargain or die. The demon says that she doesn't have the power to break the deal and only her boss has that ability. She then taunts Sam that letting Dean die will be good for Sam, prompting Sam to kill her.
50 (3.06)
" Red Sky At Morning "
November 8, 2007
Vengeful Spirit
Dean and Sam visit a woman, Gertrude, whose niece may have been drowned by ghosts from a sunken ship, only to find that the woman is well aware of that possibility and their cover has already been blown by Bela. Without missing a beat, Dean smoothly goes along with the woman's realization. Later, Bela and Dean struggle for the upper hand and Sam tries to avoid Gertrude's while they act as a distraction.
51 (3.07)
" Fresh Blood "
November 15, 2007
Vampires
Gordon has escaped from prison, and trades Bela a valuable item in exchange for Sam's location. After an encounter with Sam and Dean, Gordon is taken captive by a vengeful vampire who at first plans to feed the famed vampire hunter to his new female companions or daughters as the vampire calls them. Meanwhile Dean tries to gently break the news to Sam that they'll have to kill Gordon when they find him. Sam surprises Dean by agreeing without protest. Later, the boys realize just how badly the vampire's new plan backfired when Gordon is turned into what he loathed most. When the boys find out Bela was responsible for Gordon finding them, Dean informs Bela the first thing he's going to do if they survive is kill her, but she surprises him by helping him locate Gordon.
Mercedes McNab
guest stars.
52 (3.08)
" A Very Supernatural Christmas "
December 13, 2007
Anti-Santa, Pagan Gods
Sam and Dean follow the trail of what they believe to be the "anti santa" who abducts its victims using their chimneys. They find that old Pagan Gods are behind the abductions using special Christmas wreaths to select their victims. Flashbacks reveal what Christmas was like for the Winchester brothers as children.
53 (3.09)
" Malleus Maleficarum "
January 31, 2008
Witches /Demons
Sam and Dean encounter a coven of witches who have been serving demons. Ruby tells Sam and Dean to get out of town while they still have the chance, but the Winchesters ignore her warning. Blood begins to spurt out of Dean's mouth and Sam travels to the witchs' house to stop the spell. After a near-death experience, Ruby saves Dean and they both go to help Sam. The brothers learn that Ruby was once a human witch before becoming a demon.
54 (3.10)
" Dream a Little Dream of Me "
February 7, 2008
Human on
Dreamroot
A maid comes into Bobby's hotel room and finds him asleep. No one can wake him up and the doctor concludes that he just suddenly lapsed into a coma. Dean and Sam investigate this ordeal and find that he is trapped within his own mind. The boys manage to save Bobby by going into his dreams which includes Dean having to face one of his own fears (himself). Deans fear is of going to hell and becoming a demon.
55 (3.11)
" Mystery Spot "
February 14, 2008
Trickster
Sam relives the same day over and over, continually having to deal with Dean's death. Determined to stop the time loop, he repeatedly tries to alter the day or otherwise prevent his brother's death from ever occurring. After repeated failures, a slight change in how the day plays out tips Sam off on who the culprit really is. He confronts the man and it is revealed to be a Trickster, whom the brothers believed they had killed some time before. Sam attempts to kill him, but the Trickster ends the loop and allows the brothers to leave. The day after, Dean is shot by a mugger and dies. Distraught, Sam turns dark and seeks out the Trickster. Eventually, they meet once again, and Sam begs the Trickster, who says Dean's early death is good for Sam, to fix things. Dean is brought back to life once again.
56 (3.12)
" Jus In Bello "
February 21, 2008
Demons
Sam and Dean break into Bela's apartment in order to get the Colt back, but she has tipped off Agent Henricksen about their whereabouts and they are arrested. While Sam and Dean are locked in a cell in Colorado, a demon breaks in and kills some of the sheriff's men and possesses Henricksen. After the guys vanquish the demon, the FBI agent realizes they were telling the truth and prepares to release them, but Ruby shows up to a warn Sam and Dean that the jailhouse is surrounded by a band of demons with a powerful new leader who wants Sam dead. As Dean and Sam face off against the 30 demons they escape and soon find out that Lilith comes back as a young girl and killed everyone in the jail.
57 (3.13)
" Ghostfacers "
April 24, 2008
Ghost
Sam and Dean work a case at the same place where the boys from Hell Hound's Lair, Ed Zeddmore and Harry Spengler, are shooting the pilot for their reality show "Ghost Facers." Every leap year, at midnight, a ghost who used to be a janitor at a local hospital brings people's corpses to the Morton House for company. Their spirits remain trapped in the house as well as any living person in the house at midnight. Sam and Dean become trapped in the house with the Ghost Facers crew and must figure out how to kill the ghost as it starts hunting them one by one.
58 (3.14)
" Long Distance Call "
May 1, 2008
Crocotta
A married man receives countless phone calls from his dead high school sweetheart until he is driven to end his own life. The residents of a town in Ohio are getting phone calls from deceased loved ones, the spirits telling them to come and see them. Dean receives a call from John (guest star Jeffrey Dean Morgan) telling Dean that the demon that's holding the contract to Dean's soul is in town, and he knows how to save Dean's life. Sam and Dean argue because Sam distrusts the information that Dean is receiving by phone, but Dean is convinced that it's his father and follows the advice he is given to try and save himself.
59 (3.15)
" Time Is On My Side "
May 8, 2008
Immortality / Doc Benton
Sam convinces Dean to go to Erie, Pennsylvania, to investigate a possible zombie. But they end up meeting Doctor Benton (guest star
Billy Drago ), a real doctor who abandoned his work in 1816 to follow his obsession of finding the key to eternal life. He drugs people and harvests their internal organs for his research. Meanwhile, Bobby finds out where Bela is from another hunter Rufus Turner and Dean leaves Sam to deal with the doctor alone while he confronts Bela.
60 (3.16)
" No Rest for the Wicked "
May 15, 2008
Lilith /Demons
With only 30 hours left before Dean's deal is up, Sam and Bobby search for Lilith, who holds the contract. After locating Lilith in
New Harmony, Indiana , Sam summons Ruby for help. They decide they can't trust her and steal her demon killing knife and depart for New Harmony to kill Lilith. They soon find out that there is no way to help Dean and that they have no hope. The season ends with Dean getting killed and being sent to hell. This gets Sam angry where he figures out that Lilith is powerless against him.
Season 4: 2008-2009 Main article:
Supernatural (season 4)
#
Title
Original Airdate
Supernatural Legend
61 (4.01)
" Lazarus Rising [ 4 ] "
September 18, 2008 [ 4 ]
Angels / Demons / Psychic
It's four months later and Dean wakes in a pine box. He's been freed from Hell. He has a joyful reunion with Sam and Bobby, but it isn't long before the three wonder what exactly pulled Dean from Hell and what it will want in return. After long searching, Dean and Bobby find out that an angel named
Castiel
pulled Dean out of Hell because God has work for Dean.
62 (4.02)
" Are You There God? It's Me, Dean Winchester [ 4 ] "
September 25, 2008 [ 4 ]
Vengeful Spirits/ The Rising Of The Witnesses
Sam and Dean are stunned when the spirits of Meg, Agent Henricksen, and a that of a man they couldn't save appear and accuse the Winchesters of failing them. Although rattled, the brothers must pull together to save Bobby, who is too crippled with guilt to fight off the angry ghosts of the young children he couldn't save. Castiel tells Dean that Lilith released the vengeful spirits and that she intends to break 66 seals to free Lucifier so he can bring about the Apocalypse. Castiel tells Dean to start showing him some respect because he pulled Dean out of Hell and he can put him right back in.
63 (4.03)
" In the Beginning [ 4 ] "
October 2, 2008
The Yellow-Eyed Demon ( Azazel )/ Time Travel
Dean is transported back in time and is shocked when he lands in Lawrence, Kansas. However, that shock turns to amazement after he runs into a young John Winchester and Mary who have just fallen in love. Castiel informs Dean that he must "stop it", but Dean has other concerns when
Azazel
is apparently making deals in the area.
Mitch Pileggi
guest stars as Mary's father, Samuel. Dean also finds out why Azazel came after his family years ago. It's because Mary made a deal with the yellow eyed demon in exchange for John's life. Mary's mom's name was Deana and the dad's name was Samuel. Sam and Dean were named after them. Samuel was killed by the yellow eyed demon and then possesed by him. Deana died trying to kill Azazel and save Dean's life. Dean couldn't stop it because Mary already made the deal by the time he got away from Azazel.
64 (4.04)
" Metamorphosis [ 4 ] "
October 9, 2008
Rougarou
Sam and Dean find a man called Jack, who's becoming a
Rougarou , a creature which turns from human into a monster that eats human flesh. Sam believes that Jack can learn to control himself, but Dean thinks that the only thing to do is shoot him dead. Dean also discovers Sam is using his psychic powers under Ruby's guidance. Jack eats a hunter but only to protect his pregnant wife which the hunter threatened to kill. Jack's wife is disgusted and scared at what her husband has become and yells at him and runs away. Later Sam and Dean show up and kill Jack. [ 4 ]
65 (4.05)
" Monster Movie [ 4 ] "
October 16, 2008
Shapeshifter
Dean and Sam investigate several murders at Oktoberfest. The first victim was found with bite marks on her neck, much like a vampire would leave, while the second victim has wounds that look like a werewolf attack. After a mummy rises from his crypt, Dean determines that a shape-shifter is terrorizing the town as iconic monsters from the old Hollywood movies. This episode is filmed in black and white. [ 4 ]
66 (4.06)
" Yellow Fever [ 4 ] "
October 23, 2008
Buruburu / Ghost Sickness
Sam and Dean investigate the mysterious deaths of several men who apparently dropped dead of fright. They visit one of the victims in the morgue, and Dean becomes infected with the illness which starts as a general anxiety, then moves on to full-blown terror that eventually stops the heart. Sam and Bobby must find the root of the disease before Dean dies and is sent back to Hell. They soon find out that it is ghost sickness and to get that away Sam and Bobby summon the ghost and kill it the way it died as a human. That is to scare it to death.
[ 4 ]
67 (4.07)
" It's the Great Pumpkin, Sam Winchester "
October 30, 2008
Samhain / Angels /Witches/Ghost/Zombies
It's a few days before Halloween and Sam and Dean investigate two mysterious deaths in a small town. The brothers find hex bags and deduce a witch is sacrificing people to summon a dangerous demon named Samhain. Castiel arrives in town and tells Sam and Dean the freeing of Samhain is one of the Seals that will lead to freeing Lucifer, so Castiel has brought a specialist angel named
Uriel
to smite the entire town. Sam and Dean say that they can't and intend to take care of it, but later they find out that the seal is broken. To kill Samhain Sam uses his physic ability to send him back to hell.
[ 4 ]
68 (4.08)
" Wishful Thinking "
November 6, 2008
Cursed Coin / Wishing Well / Tiamat
Sam and Dean investigate the small town of
Concrete, Washington , where the
wishing well
really works. A
teddy bear
comes to life, someone wins the lottery, a teenager can become invisible, a bullied kid gets super-strength, and the town geek gets a hot girlfriend. The brothers realize that while every wish is granted, the results are all messed up, the result of the wishes being granted by a coin made by the cult of the Babylonian god of chaos,
Tiamat . [ 4 ]
69 (4.09)
" I Know What You Did Last Summer "
November 13, 2008
Angels / Demons
Ruby tells Sam and Dean that a powerful demon named
Alastair
is searching for a girl named
Anna
who can hear the angels' conversations. The three set out to find Anna but once they do, Alastair attacks them and Ruby escapes with the girl. Believing they were set up, Dean lashes out at Sam for trusting Ruby, so Sam tells him what happened during those months Dean was in Hell and how Ruby saved his life and become his love interest at a moment of weakness. Castiel and Uriel return and demand to be taken to Anna but not for the reason Dean thinks. They want her for something that she is. [ 4 ]
70 (4.10)
" Heaven and Hell "
November 20, 2008
Angels / Demons
Sam and Dean finally understand why Castiel and Uriel want
Anna
dead. it's because she is an angel that disobeyed and became a mortal. However, they disagree with the angels' orders and try to help Anna restore an important part of her past so she can be saved. Meanwhile, Alastair and his demons continue to close in to the brothers.This turns into a big fight when the angels and the demons are caught in the same room when both Ruby and Dean drag them there. This fight leads Uriel to take down two different demons. When Castiel tries to exorcise Alastir he learns that he is powerless. Alastir almost sends Castiel back to heaven when Dean interupts the exorcism by bashing Alastir with a metal pole. The episode ends where during the fight Anna steals back her innocence and becomes an angel again.
[ 4 ]
71 (4.11)
" Family Remains "
January 15, 2009
None ( Feral children )
Sam and Dean investigate the supposed appearance of a young female ghost in an abandoned house, but things become more complicated when a family moves in. The brothers fail to get the family to leave, but when the son is kidnapped through the walls, they look to Sam and Dean to rescue the boy. They soon find out that ghosts never invaded the house, but humans. These humans aren't exactly humans at all. This makes Dean recall the time he tortured souls in hell. [ 11 ]
72 (4.12)
" Criss Angel Is a Douchebag [ 13 ] "
January 22, 2009
Black Magic / Tarot Cards
A mysterious death draws Sam and Dean to a town full of old-school stage magicians. Their investigation leads them to Charlie, Jay and Vernon, three friends who were famous magicians in their day but have now been replaced by flashier, younger magicians. One of them has made a deal to acquire real magical powers, but the price was extremely high. Sam and Dean must figure out a way to reverse the spell before others are harmed. [ 11 ]
73 (4.13)
" After School Special "
January 29, 2009
Vengeful Spirit/Possession
Sam and Dean go undercover to investigate a string of murders at their old high school. The case causes them to flashback to their time there recalling how Sam was picked on by the school bully while Dean was Mr. Popular. They find out that the ghost is the bully and Sam and Dean burn the strand of his hair to kill him. [ 11 ]
74 (4.14)
" Sex and Violence "
February 5, 2009
Siren
Sam and Dean enter a small town in Iowa, where three men have inexplicably beaten their wives to death. The guys realize that behind the murders is a Siren, a creature that can take different forms and desperately needs love and compels people to destroy themselves as a show of devotion. The Siren eventually puts Sam and Dean under its spell and pits the two brothers against each other in a fight to the death. When Dean almost kills Sam Bobby interferes taking Dean's tainted blood to kill the Siren.
[ 11 ]
75 (4.15)
" Death Takes a Holiday [ 17 ] "
March 12, 2009
Reapers / Demons / Angels
Sam and Dean investigate a small town where people are cheating death. They discover the Reapers have gone missing so they turn to Pamela for help. She sends them into the spiritual world to find answers and they come face to face with Alastair, who has been kidnapping all the Reapers in order to break another seal. Pamela is killed by a demon. [ 16 ]
Alexander Gould guest stars in this episode.
76 (4.16)
" On the Head of a Pin [ 17 ] "
March 19, 2009
Angels / Alastair
Someone is killing angels and Castiel and Uriel ask Dean to use the torturing skills he learned in Hell to extract information from Alastair so they can stop the murders. Sam is concerned Dean can’t handle the job but Dean agrees to do it. Sam is shown drinking Ruby's blood to make himself a stronger exorcist. Alastair reveals that making Dean agree to torture people was the very first act that had to take place in order for the first seal to be broken, and render the rest of the seals breakable. Dean becomes murderous with rage and as he is about to finish Alastir off, he escapes the seal and beats Dean up. Seeing this Castiel enters the room where he is beaten up as well. As Alastir is about to send Castiel back to heaven Sam pulls Alastir away from Castiel and orders him to tell the truth about who is killing the angels. Alastir replies with rage that he doesn't know and laughs as he says "Go on, send me back to hell if you can". Sam laughs a him and replies that he is now more powerful and can kill demons. At this point Sam kills Alastir like he was nothing. Castiel is shocked. As Castiel searches for the truth about who killed the angels Uriel approaches behind him and asks him to join his rebellion to free Lucifer. When Castiel disagrees Uriel takes out the knife that was used to kill the angels and replied that "No demon can kill an angel except for an angel". This made it clear that Uriel was killing the angels and Castiel and Uriel beagn to fight. At the point where Castiel is almost killed Anna(the angel who came to Earth as a mortal) appears and stabs Uriel with the knife at the back. In the end it is said that only Dean can stop Lucifer from getting released because "He who stare can be the only one to end it".
77 (4.17)
" It's a Terrible Life [ 19 ] "
March 26, 2009
Vengeful Spirit/ Angels
Inexplicably, the Winchesters have become "Dean Smith," who works as a business executive, and "Sam Wesson," who is in Tech Support. Neither remembers their lives as the Winchester brothers, but after co-workers start committing suicide and Dean sees a ghost in a mirror, the boys find themselves working together to solve the murders and perform with a brief stint fighting the supernatural. Dean discovers his boss - really an angel named Zachariah - had temporarily replaced his and Sam's memories in order to prove to Dean he's destined to save the world, as opposed to having an average life. When Dean doesn't accept the job offer offered to him by his boss, he is touched on his head where all his memories come back. Dean asks the boss of the company who he is. The boss replies that he is an angel and was testing Dean to make sure that he was certain that he can stop the release of Lucifer.
78 (4.18)
" The Monster At the End of This Book [ 20 ] "
April 2, 2009
Prophet / Lilith / Angels
Sam and Dean are shocked to discover a series of books entitled "Supernatural" that accurately detail their lives as demon hunters. They confront the oblivious author (a brazen and young man by the name of Chuck Shirley) who, it turns out, is a prophet of the Lord. Chuck describes an encounter Sam will soon have with Lilith, and while Dean wants to avoid her, Sam wants to face her. Castiel tells Dean that prophecies can't be averted, while the boys alternately prepare for and try to avoid their fates, but Dean learns that if a prophet were to be in the same room as an demon a battle would take place. Dean was puzzled by this, but Castiel made it clear that prophets are protected by archangels(the most fiercest weapon of heaven). Dean thanks Castiel and takes Chuck to their motel room where they find Sam and Lilith. Dean warns Lilith about the archangel and Lilith escapes.
Posted by
E-Beth
at
1:24 AM
2 comments:
annielicious14 June 9, 2009 at 12:21 AM la la la la ........ I hear nothing, I can't see this!
I just became a die hard fan (bought seasons 1-3) watched them twice and and started watching them again while waiting for Season 4 which I bought on Amazon to arrive but won't be here till September 09 ..... what was i saying?
oh yeah
DON'T TELL ME ANYTHING ABOUT SEASON 4!!!
argggggggghhhhhhhhhh!
I need a safe house! Reply Delete John June 28, 2010 at 6:11 AM buy viagra viagra online generic viagra Reply Delete Add comment Load more...
Newer Post
Older Post
Home
Subscribe to:
Post Comments (Atom)
Donate
Easy Access
A Little More About Us
Seasons 1-4
Episodes- Season 5
List of Episodes
Ringtones
Casting Thoughts
Contest 1- Entries
Contest 1- CLOSED
Contest 2- CLOSED
Music From Supernatural
What Supernatural has taught us
Fan Fiction Recs
Followers
Blog Archive
►
2010
(3)
►
January
(3)
▼
2009
(186)
►
November
(2)
►
October
(8)
►
September
(10)
►
August
(10)
►
July
(16)
►
June
(22)
►
May
(23)
►
April
(30)
►
March
(44)
►
February
(20)
▼
January
(1)
List of Episodes
►
2008
(2)
►
December
(1)
►
September
(1)
Other Blogs We Love
Supernatural Brasil
Testando
1 year ago
What Did We Do Before Supernatural?
Season Five Finale
5 years ago
GeekBlips - Top Geek News, Videos, and Blogs
Supernatural Sites
Jared Padalecki Fan
Jensen/Jared pictures
Jensen Ackles
Jared Padalecki
Thank You's
@HAMMER32
@Megameggytron
Contributors
E-Beth
HAMMERoftheGODS
Kat
BlogCatalog
create & buy custom products
at
Zazzle
Disclaimer:
Fan-Supernatural.blogspot.com is a non-profit website, and is not officially authorized by or affiliated to Supernatural, Jared Padalecki, Jensen Ackles or anyone else involved in the show. All photos/pictures and screen captures found on this site are being used for entertainment purposes only and are taken from sources provided to the public. All photos and articles are copyrighted material whose use has not been specifically authorized by the copyright owners unless noted. Credit is given to every contributor who submits any material, whether photo or audio clip, to fan-supernatural.blogspot.com