Paranormal Activity 3 proves it’s primetime for Scary Movies as Halloween approaches (Trailer Included) | Z6Mag
Home
About Z6
Trends
Virtual Coins
Advertising
Contact Us
Privacy Policy
Subscribe to Z6Mag
Follow @Z6Mag
Featured
Science
Arts & Entertainment
Business
Health
Lifestyle
Offbeat
Politics
Sports
Technology
Home
»
Arts & Entertainment
» Paranormal Activity 3 proves it’s primetime for Scary Movies as Halloween approaches (Trailer Included)
Paranormal Activity 3 proves it’s primetime for Scary Movies as Halloween approaches (Trailer Included)
Posted by
Neva Happel
on Oct 22nd, 2011 //
3 Comments
There is always the typical release of a planned movie right before the Halloween spirit rises to a loud pitch. This year is no different but what you may find different this year is that a third installment of a horror franchise is actually just as good as the ones produced before it. If you’re looking to be scared out of your wits and be terrified for the Halloween season, this movie is going to fit the bill.
The Paranormal franchise is going in reverse with Paranormal Activity 3 taking you into the Carlsbad, California home in the year 1988. The characters you have come to know in Paranormal Activity 1 and Paranormal Activity 2 are now kids. One of the girls and her babysitter will wind you through the tense and high anxiety moments as they play the games that most didn’t dare to play as a kid.
Bloody Mary
on the wall, yes, that bathroom game is there to draw you in and connect with your inner child.
The reviews on Paranormal Activity Three from the go to entertainment destinations like
Entertainment Weekly
give this movie high marks and assure you that you’ll find screams, jolts and even a few moments of laughter. Other reviews are stuck on the fact that there is some deep plot development and time to get to know the characters. An excellent review on this new Halloween blockbuster from
Richard Corliss that is with Time
magazine says that the film does contain “a few cheesy scares” but that the “rest is pretty freaking cool.” Other reviews say this third installment of Paranormal Activity shows the filmakers, Joost and Schulman, are the real deal because they’ve proven to make a unique installment that adds to their franchise.
The midnight showing almost broke an all-time record by bringing in
$8 million on the Thursday
boo fest. The only movie that beat these numbers was The Hangover Two which beat it by $2 million at their midnight showing. The profit that is dripping from this franchise is obvious due to the low budget price tag. With a cost of $5 million dollars this movie is already pulling in profit as you read this.
If you want to experience the terror yourself you can watch the Paranormal Activity 3 trailer below:
We can verify that the trailer below is an exact depiction of what you will find in the Paranormal Activity 3 movie in the theaters. The other trailers above are bizarre in the fact that they are not exactly like the movie and include other scenes, people & effects. It’s still a great Halloween movie and will scare you, however, we think Paranormal Activity 2 was still the best!
Update on these Paranormal Activity 3 Trailers:
We have received comments and searches from people wondering why these trailers are not exactly like the movie, we’ll admit, we really don’t know. Why the trailer portray the characters and some of the scenes, there are certainly scenes, effects and even some characters that don’t show up in the actual movie. We try to include only official trailers from Paranormal Activity 3 but we’ll do our best to find some beyond the two listed that depict closer to the effect and scenes you’ll see in Paranormal Activity 3 the movie.
Related articles
‘Paranormal Activity 3′: By the Numbers
(moviefone.com)
Five Reasons To See ‘Paranormal Activity 3′
(moviesblog.mtv.com)
‘Paranormal Activity 3′ Terrifies Fans At New York Screening
(mtv.com)
Tags:
Paranormal Activity 3 Review ,
Paranormal Activity 3 Scary ,
Paranormal Activity 3 trailer ,
Paranormal Activity is scary
« Previous Americans are Consuming too Much Sodium According to 3 Year Study by CDC
Next » Google & Microsoft set to battle over buying Yahoo in a historic acquisition
3 Responses
Mitch Harrison
says:
October 25, 2011 at 10:40 pm
Doesn’t this scream of false advertising? If I went to see the movie and it wasn’t as good as the trailer promised do u think they would refund the ticket price? lol
Reply
Sarah Tipler
says:
October 22, 2011 at 8:58 pm
What film have you reviewed cos the one ive just seen has almost none of the trailer in it…awful!!
Reply
Allan Soldner
says:
October 22, 2011 at 9:03 pm
Completely agree Sarah. We saw the movie last night after the trailer was placed on the site. The trailer definitely was made around the context of the movie. Pretty wild huh? It is interesting how the Bloody Mary scene doesn’t include both girls but only one of them with the babysitter. Not really sure why they do this with trailers. We’ll look for one that is more applicable than the “official” Paranormal Activity 3 trailer.
Leave a Reply
Click here to cancel reply.
Name
(Required)
Mail (will not be published)
(Required)
Website
Comment moderation is enabled. Your comment may take some time to appear.
Latest News
Budweiser Super Bowl Commercial 2015 – Lost Dog #BestBuds
What time does the Super Bowl start? XLIX Kickoff is 6:30pm EST
Research Shows Infants Still Sleeping with Bedding, Despite SIDS Risk
Quincy Medical Center Closing Doors December 31, 2014
Hermetically Sealed Caskets Set As Guideline By CDC For Ebola Burials
Popular
James Holmes’ Pictures Don’t Match
Trayvon Martin 911 Call From Neighbors and Zimmerman (Audio)
Dr. Oz 3 Day Cleanse To Detox Body and Lose Weight
Was Trayvon Martin a Gangster? Is George Zimmerman being demonized?
Extreme Weather Conditions Might Change Minds of Global Warming Skeptics
Subscribe
Subscribe via RSS feed
Subscribe by Email
Recent Comments Don Nash
on
Budweiser Name Dispute Continues for over 100 years Now Norma
on
Garcinia Cambogia Extract Weight Loss Supplement Touted by Dr Oz Popularity Spikes Again Kathy
on
Budweiser Super Bowl Commercial 2015 – Lost Dog #BestBuds Sports and Ethics - Grand Rapids Public Library
on
2012 Tour de France, Olympics Marred by Doping Scandals Gary HerteIv ben on this for a week nowr
on
Ferguson Schools Delay Start Another Week to August 25
Home
Featured
Science
Space
Animals
Weather
Earthquakes
Environment
Arts & Entertainment
Celebrities
Music
Business
Professionals
Law
Crime
Transportation
Health
Longevity
Dr Oz
Recalls
Lifestyle
Recreation
Education
Food
Parenting
Photography
Fashion
Offbeat
Videos
Politics
World
Sports
Technology
Apple
Google
Amazon
Facebook
Gaming
Xbox 360
PS3
Wii
PC
PS4
Xbox One
Twitter
Robots
Mobile
Tablets
Microsoft
Smartphones
Green
File Sharing
DDOS
Social Media
Energy
Personal Assistants
GPS
CES
Samsung
© 2012
Z6Mag
·
RSS