Backstage Magic
A behind-the-scenes peek at the stuff that keeps Disney parks running. If you don't want to know how things are done, then read no further.
&nbsp
I don't pretend that there's only one Mickey. However, if you are a cast member with stories or photos to share, I will keep your identity a secret.
&nbsp
Not on tumblr? Follow @ BackstagePeek
on twitter to get instant updates when new posts are added.
&nbsp
Submissions are welcome! Got backstage photos that you can't post on your own blog for fear of being fired?
Send them to me
and I'll post them anonymously. If there are any recognizable people in the photo, I can blur their faces if you want me to.
&nbsp
If you can't fit it in tumblr's submission box or don't trust Tumblr to keep it secret,
you can email it directly to me.
&nbsp
Either way, you will remain anonymous when I post your submission unless you request otherwise.
&nbsp
If you have any questions or suggestions,
I'm all ears!
All asks will be answered without divulging your identity unless you request otherwise.
Archive
Ask me anything
Submit
Search
August 9th, 2012 at 3:52PM
**You may want to read the following entry before pressing play.**
Trigger warning: suicide
Well, if you’re asking if it’s really a long-lost piece of Disney history, it’s not.
Suicide Mouse was first uploaded to YouTube on November 25, 2009 with a story which I will include at the end of this post. Before that, it was a
story
on the /x/ board of 4chan in October of 2009 – the video was made based on the story.
The story itself is easy enough to disprove. For one thing, it mentions that “up until a year or two ago, everyone believed that it cut to black and that was it,” but that later on Leonard Maltin reviewed the cartoon, decided that it was junk, but wanted a digital copy…and then noticed that the file was nine minutes long.
Well, if you have a reel of film (which is what a cartoon from the 1930s would have been on), and you play two or three minutes of what turns out to me a nine minute clip, there’s going to be quite a bit of film still on the reel…why stop it partway through the reel? And when it was being transferred, you would see the pictures on the film. It’s not like a DVD where you can’t tell what’s on it by looking at it. With film, you can see exactly what is there. It’s how a picture gets on the screen. Light shines through the image on the film, which projects it onto the screen. It’s not a bunch of 1s and 0s like digital data.
If Leonard Maltin is going to see that a file is 9:04 long and be curious about what else is there, then he’s going to see the leftover film on the reel when he first watched it and wonder if there’s anything there. It’s not going to take 70 years for someone to notice that the film isn’t over.
Basically, the whole thing is an example of
creepypasta
- or what I just called “scary stories” when I was a kid. It’s a story made up to scare or shock, nothing more. It’s not an actual long-lost Disney clip from a movie called Un Souris Andalou (An Andalusian Mouse) as some have said. It’s not something that you will die after watching. It’s just a 21st-century equivalent of the old “say ’ Bloody Mary ’ while looking into the bathroom mirror” hoax.
Here’s the story as it originally appeared (reformatted for easier reading, though the grammar has been left as-is):
So do any of you remember those Mickey Mouse cartoons from the 1930s? The ones that were just put out on DVD a few years ago? Well, I hear there is one that was unreleased to even the most avid classic disney fans.
According to sources, it’s nothing special. It’s just a continuous loop (like Flinstones) of mickey walking past 6 buildings that goes on for two or three minutes before fading out. Unlike the cutesy tunes put in though, the song on this cartoon was not a song at all, just a constant banging on a piano as if the keys for a minute and a half before going to white noise for the remainder of the film.
It wasn’t the jolly old Mickey we’ve come to love either, Mickey wasn’t dancing, not even smiling, just kind of walking as if you or I were walking, with a normal facial expression, but for some reason his head tilted side to side as he kept this dismal look.
Up until a year or two ago, everyone believed that after it cut to black and that was it. When Leonard Maltin was reviewing the cartoon to be put in the complete series, he decided it was too junk to be on the DVD, but wanted to have a digital copy due to the fact that it was a creation of Walt. When he had a digitized version up on his computer to look at the file, he noticed something.
The cartoon was actually 9 minutes and 4 seconds long. This is what my source emailed to me, in full (he is a personal assistant of one of the higher executives at Disney, and acquaintance of Mr. Maltin himself):
“After it cut to black, it stayed like that until the 6th minute, before going back into Mickey walking. The sound was different this time. It was a murmur. It wasn’t a language, but more like a gurgled cry. As the noise got more indistinguishable and loud over the next minute, the picture began to get weird. The sidewalk started to go in directions that seemed impossible based on the physics of Mickeys walking. And the dismal face of the mouse was slowly curling into a smirk.
On the 7th minute, the murmur turned into a bloodcurdling scream (the kind of scream painful to hear) and the picture was getting more obscure. Colors were happening that shouldn’t have been possible at the time. Mickey face began to fall apart. his eyes rolled on the bottom of his chin like two marbles in a fishbowl, and his curled smile was pointing upward on the left side of his face.
The buildings became rubble floating in midair and the sidewalk was still impossibly navigating in warped directions, a few seeming inconcievable with what we, as humans, know about direction. Mr. Maltin got disturbed and left the room, sending an employee to finish the video and take notes of everything happening up until the last second, and afterward immediately store the disc of the cartoon into the vault. This distorted screaming lasted until 8 minutes and a few seconds in, and then it abruptly cuts to the mickey mouse face at the credits of the end of every video with what sounded like a broken music box playing in the background.
This happened for about 30 seconds, and whatever was in that remaining 30 seconds I haven’t been able to get a sliver of information about. From a security guard working under me who was making rounds outside of that room, I was told that after the last frame, the employee stumbled out of the room with pale skin saying "Real suffering is not known” 7 times before speedily taking the guards pistol and offing himself on the spot.
The thing I could get out of Leonard Maltin was that the last frame was a piece of Russian text that roughly said “the sights of hell bring its viewers back in”. As far as I know, no one else has seen it, but there have been dozens of attempts at getting the file on rapidshare by employees inside the studios, all of whom have been promptly terminated of their jobs.
Whether it got online or not is up for debate, but if rumors serve me right, it’s online somewhere under “suicidemouse.avi”. If you ever find a copy of the film, I want you to never view it, and to contact me by phone immediately, regardless of the time. When a Disney Death is covered up as well as this, it means this has to be something huge.
Get back at me,
TR"
I’ve yet to find a copy of this, but it is out there. I know it
Well, it’s out there. It wasn’t out there when this was written, but it’s the internet…if it could possibly exist, eventually it will. Or, to put it another way:
“If you can nightmare it, someone will do it.”
forones93
likes this tannersthename
likes this frozonelanterns
likes this multi-fandomrpingblog
likes this khelseabean
reblogged this from
backstagemagic khelseabean
likes this noblegasxenon
likes this thot-trash
likes this uglinessisreality
reblogged this from
backstagemagic shutupandrebel
reblogged this from
backstagemagic reisbtian
likes this carli-inreallife
likes this revolver-s
likes this 4cidcubes
likes this marinerdiamonds
likes this estrogno
likes this lilforestfae
likes this skittlesketcher
reblogged this from
backstagemagic sweetlyflawed
likes this yessharry
likes this jamas-penetrada
reblogged this from
backstagemagic all-you-see-is-mine
likes this lavendernebula
reblogged this from
backstagemagic lavendernebula
likes this jellygorawr
reblogged this from
platinumfoxx platinumfoxx
reblogged this from
backstagemagic
and added: this… ericaishcool
likes this shutupandrebel
likes this eponine119
likes this erinmountains27
likes this thehornymofo
reblogged this from
supersmashmemes 14112
reblogged this from
backstagemagic
and added: Surely everyone knows that it isn’t real. That doesn’t make it any less unsettling to watch the video. Everyone knows... darkopolo
likes this heyitsreed
likes this supersmashmemes
reblogged this from
backstagemagic letsf-ck
likes this sassypaninis
likes this falcor-the-luck-dragon
likes this backstagemagic
posted this
39 notes
#Suicide Mouse #suicidemouse #trigger warning: suicide
Short URL for this post:
http://tmblr.co/Zuax7vR5Sihs
Brutal Simplicity
theme by
Kevin Burg