Geneology Table of Nations | Gia.Horary
Gia.Horary
About
Private Horary Consultation
Recommendations For Question Formulation
Universal Model / Astrology / Horary
Machine d’Anticythére
Antikyther Machine Model Front Panel
CHALDEAN LEGEND
Astrology 9 House Matter Comes From The 8 House Matter of Life and Death – From The Fruit of the Tree of Knowledge
TAMMUZ
THE TREE OF KNOWLEDGE OF GOOD AND EVIL
Geneology Table of Nations
07
Feb
2012
3 Comments
by
giahorary
in
Chaldean Legend
Tags:
Genealogy
T A B L E
O F
N A T I O N S
(70)
Ham, Shem & Japheth
———- HAM – (cham; Cham) ———-
1. The Youngest Son of Noah:
The youngest son of Noah, from whom sprang the western and southwestern nations known to the Hebrews. His name first occurs in Genesis 5:32, where, as in 6:10 and elsewhere, it occupies the second place. In Genesis 9:18 Ham is described as “the father of Canaan”.
2. Ham as a Nationality (30 Nations came out of Ham):
The name given, in Psalms 105:23,17; 106:22 (compare 78:51), to Egypt as a descendant of Ham, son of Noah. As Shem means “dusky,” or the like, and Japheth “fair,” it has been supposed that Ham meant, as is not improbable, “black.” This is supported by the evidence of Hebrew and Arabic, in which the word chamam means “to be hot” and “to be black,” the latter signification being derived from the former.
It is interesting to note that the Biblical record defines Egypt as the Land of Ham.
— Psalm 105: 23 “ Israel also came into Egypt…the land of Ham .”
3. Meaning of the Word:
That Ham is connected with the native name of Egypt, Kem, or, in full pa ta’ en Kem, “the land of Egypt,” in Bashmurian Coptic Kheme, is unlikely, as this form is probably of a much later date than the composition of Gen, and, moreover, as the Arabic shows, the guttural is not a true kh, but the hard breathing h, which are both represented by the Hebrew cheth.
4. The Nations Descending from Ham:
First on the list, as being the darkest, is Cush or Ethiopia (Genesis 10:6), after which comes Mitsrayim, or Egypt, then PuT or Libyia, and Canaan last. The sons or descendants of each of these are then taken in turn, and it is noteworthy that some of them, like the Ethiopians and the Canaanites, spoke Semitic, and not Hamitic, languages–Seba (if connected with the Sabeans), Havilah (Yemen), and Sheba, whose queen visited Solomon. Professor Sayce, moreover, has pointed out that Caphtor is the original home of the Phoenicians, who spoke a Semitic language.
The explanation of this probably is that other tongues were forced upon these nationalities in consequence of their migrations, or because they fell under the dominion of nationalities alien to them. The non-Sem Babylonians, described as descendants of Nimrod (Merodach), as is well known, spoke Sumerian, and adopted Semitic Babylonian only on account of mingling with the Semites whom they found there.
Another explanation is that the nationalities described as Hamitic–a parallel to those of the Semitic section–were so called because they fell under Egyptian dominion. This would make the original Hamitic race to have been Egyptian and account for Ham as a (poetical) designation of that nationality. Professor F. L. Griffith has pointed out that the Egyptian Priapic god of Panopolis (Akhmim), sometimes called Menu, but also apparently known as Khem, may have been identified with the ancestor of the Hamitic race–he was worshipped from the coast of the Red Sea to Coptos, and must have been well known to Egypt’s eastern neighbors. He regards the characteristics of Menu as being in accord with the shamelessness of Ham as recorded in Genesis 9:20.
4.
Four Sons of Ham (see map below):
1. Mizraim (Egypt)
2. Cush (Sudan, Ethiopia)
3. Put (Lybia)
4. Canaan (Hivites, Jebusites, Arvadites, Girgashites, Amorites, Arkites, Sinites, Hittites,
Sidonians, Perizzites, Zemarites)
5. CURSE OF CANAAN
1. Canaan was cursed, not Ham. (Gen. 9:25, “…cursed be Canaan…”
2. Genesis 9:25-27 “…servitude to his brothers…”
3. Exodus 20:5 –” A curse lasts three to four generations…”
4. Canaan does not exist as a nation today.
Other three nations exist — Egypt, Ethiopia
and Lybia.
———- SHEM – shem (shem; Sem) ———-
1. Position in Noah’s Family:
His Name:
The eldest son of Noah, from whom the Jews, as well as the Semitic (“Shemitic”) nations in general have descended. When giving the names of Noah’s three sons, Shem is always mentioned first (Genesis 9:18; 10:1, etc.); and though “the elder” in “Shem the brother of Japheth the elder” (Genesis 10:21 margin) is explained as referring to Shem, this is not the rendering of Onkelos.
His five sons peopled the greater part of West Asia’s finest tracts, from Elam on the East to the Mediterranean on the West. Though generally regarded as meaning “dusky” (compare the Assyr-Babylonian samu–also Ham–possibly = “black,” Japheth, “fair”), it is considered possible that Shem may be the usual Hebrew word for “name” (shem), given him because he was the firstborn–a parallel to the Assyr-Babylonian usage, in which “son,” “name” (sumu) are synonyms (W. A. Inscriptions, V, plural 23, 11,29-32abc).
2. History, and the Nations Descended from Him (26 Nations came out of Shem):
Shem, who is called “the father of all the children of Eber,” was born when Noah had attained the age of 500 years (Genesis 5:32). Though married at the time of the Flood, Shem was then childless. Aided by Japheth, he covered the nakedness of their father, which Ham, the youngest brother, had revealed to them; but unlike the last, Shem and Japheth, in their filial piety, approached their father walking backward, in order not to look upon him. Two years after the Flood, Shem being then 100 years old, his son Arpachshad was born (Genesis 11:10), and was followed by further sons and daughters during the remaining 500 years which preceded Shem’s death.
Noah’s prophetic blessing, on awakening from his wine, may be regarded as having been fulfilled in his descendants, who occupied Syria (Aramaic), Palestine (Canaan), Chaldea (Arpachshad), Assyria (Asshur), part of Persia (Elam), and Arabia (Joktan). In the first three of these, as well as in Elam, Canaanites had settled (if not in the other districts mentioned), but Shemites ruled, at some time or other, over the Canaanites, and Canaan thus became “his servant” (Genesis 9:25,26). The tablets found in Cappadocia seem to show that Shemites (Assyrians) had settled in that district also, but this was apparently an unimportant colony. Though designated sons of Shem, some of his descendants (e.g. the Elamites) did not speak a Semitic language, while other nationalities, not his descendants (e.g. the Canaanites), did.
3. Five Sons of Shem (see map below):
1. Elam (Arabia)
2. Asshur (Assyria)
3. Lud (Lydians)
4. Aram (Aramaic, Armenia, Mesopotamia, Syria)
5. Arphaxad (From which Abraham descended)
—– JAPHETH – ja’-feth (yepheth; yapheth; Iapheth) —–
1. Etymologies of Japheth:
This name, in Genesis 9:27, seems to be explained by the phrase “may God make wide (yapht, the American Standard Revised Version “enlarge”) for Japheth,” where yapht and Japheth are represented by the same consonants, but with different vowel-points. The root of yapht is pathach, “to make wide.”
This etymology, however, is not universally accepted, as the word-play is so obvious, and the association of Japheth with Shem (“dark”) and Ham (“black”) suggests a name on similar lines–either gentilic, or descriptive of race. Japheth has therefore been explained as meaning “fair,” from yaphah, the non-Sem and non-Hamitic races known to the Jews being all more or less whiteskinned. The Targum of Onkelos agrees with the English Versions of the Bible, but that of Jonathan has “God shall beautify Japheth,” as though from yaphah.
2. His Descendants (14 Nations came out of Japheth):
The immediate descendants of Japheth were seven in number, and are represented by the nations designated Gomer, Magog, Madai, Javan, Tubal, Mesech, and Tiras; or, roughly, the Armenians, Lydians, Medes, Greeks, Tibarenians, and Moschians, the last, Tiras, remaining still obscure. The sons of Gomer (Ashkenaz, Riphath and Togarmah) were all settled in the West Asian tract; while the sons of Javan (Elisah, Tarshish, Kittim and Dodanim or Rodanim) occupied the Mediterranean coast and the adjacent islands.
3. His Place among the Sons of Noah:
In Genesis 9:27, as in other passages, Japheth occupies the 3rd place in the enumeration of the sons of Noah, but he is really regarded as the 2nd son, Ham being the youngest. In the genealogical table, however (Genesis 10:1), the descendants of Japheth are given first, and those of Shem last, in order to set forth Semitic affinities at greater length. Though this would seem to indicate that the fair races were the least known to the Jews, it implies that the latter were well disposed toward them, for Japheth was (ultimately) to dwell in the tents of Shem, and therefore to take part in Shem’s spiritual privileges.
4. Seven Sons of Japheth (see map below):
1. Javan (Greece, Romans, Romance — French, Italians, Spanish, Portuguese)
2. Magog (Scythians, Slavs, Russians, Bulgarians, Bohemians, Poles, Slovaks, Croatians)
3. Madai (Indians & Iranic: Medes, Persians, Afghans, Kurds)
4. Tubal (South of Black Sea)
5. Tiras (Thracians, Teutons, Germans, Scandinavian, Anglo-Saxon, Jutes)
6. Meshech (Russia)
7. Gomer (Celtic)
********************************
M I X E D
B L O O D L I N E S
O F
I S R A E L
* Genesis 12:16 – Not only Hagar, but many of Abraham’s servants were gifts from
Pharaoh. (approx. 1921 BC)
* Genesis 13: 6-8 – Abraham had a large number of herdsmen and 318 male servants who
were born into his house.
* Genesis 25 – Isaac, Abraham’s son and then Jacob inherited everything.
* Jacob’s son, Joseph, married a wife who was an Egyptian.
* When the Israelites were bondsmen under the Egyptians, they and their former
servants were now all defined as Israel together; an opportunity that intermarriage could
have taken place.
* Exodus 12:38 – After 400 years, a “mixed multitude” left Egypt during the Exodus.
* R a hab of Jericho, a Cannonite, and her family were received into Isreal, apparently by
marriage.
Joshua 6:23.
* Ruth, a Moabite, married Boaz, bore Obed, who son was Jessie, father to King David.
In geneology of Christ (Mathhew 1:5) the name Rachab with the names of three
other
women, Ruth, Thamar (Tamar) and Bath-Sheba.
* Solomon was given the daughter of Pharoah to marry as his first wife.
* Solomon and the Queen of Sheba.
Kings
10:1-13
(and in 2
Chronicles
9:1–12 ). The account of the Queen of Sheba is thereby interpreted by Christians as being both a metaphor and an analogy: the Queen’s visit to Solomon has been compared to the metaphorical marriage where Solomon is the anointed one as was
the messiah and Sheba represents a
Gentile
population come to reverence to the messiah; the Queen of Sheba’s chastity has also been depicted as a foreshadowing of the
Virgin Mary ; and the three gifts that she brought (gold, spices, and stones) have been seen as analogous to the gifts of the
Magi
(gold, frankincense, and myrrh). The latter is emphasized as being consistent with a passage from
Isaiah
60:6;
And they from Sheba shall come: they shall bring forth gold and incense; and they shall show forth the praises of the Lord. [11]
This last connection is interpreted [ who? ]
as relating to the Magi, the learned astronomers of Sheba who saw a new star and set off on a journey to find a new ruler connected to the new star, that led them to
Bethlehem .
Josephus says in his
Antiquity of the Jews , book 8 chapter 6, that it was the “queen of Egypt and Ethiopia” who visited King Solomon.
RRecent archaeological discoveries in
Mareb ,
Yemen
support the view that the Queen of Sheba ruled over southern Arabia, with evidence suggesting that the area was the capital of the Kingdom of Sheba.
e there are no known traditions of
matriarchal rule
in
Yemen
during the early
first millennium BC , the earliest inscriptions of the rulers of
Dʿmt
in northern Ethiopia and
Eritrea
mention
queens
of very high status, possibly equal to their kings.
Qur’anic and other Middle Eastern accounts
The Queen of Sheba, Bilqis, shown in a
Persian miniature
reclining in a garden – tinted drawing on paper c. 1595
The
Qur’an , the central religious text of
Islam , mentions the kingdom of the Queen by name (Sheba) in the 34th Chapter.
Arab
sources name her
Balqis ,
Bilqis
or
Bilquis . The Qur’anic narrative, from
sura
27 ( An-Naml ), [4]
has Suleiman getting reports from the
Hoopoe
bird about the kingdom of Saba (Sheba), ruled by a queen whose people
worship the sun
instead of God. Suleiman sends a letter inviting her to submit fully to the One God,
Allah , Lord of the Worlds according to the Islamic text. The Queen of Sheba is unsure how to respond and asks her advisors for counsel. They reply by reminding her that they are “of great toughness” in a reference to their willingness to go to war should she choose to. She replies that she fears if they were to lose, Suleiman may behave as any other king would: ‘entering a country, despoiling it and making the most honorable of its people its lowest’. She decides to meet with Suleiman in order to find out more. Suleiman receives her response to meet him, and asks if anyone can bring him her throne before she arrives. A
jinn
under the control of Suleiman proposed that he will bring it before Suleiman rises from his seat. One who had knowledge of the “ Book ” proposed to
bring him the throne of Bilqis
‘in the twinkling of an eye’ and accomplished that immediately. [5]
The queen arrives at his court, is shown her throne and asked: does your throne look like this? She replied: (It is) as though it were it. When she enters his crystal palace she accepts
Abrahamic
monotheism
and the worship of one God alone, Allah.
Found in the scriptures where the priest’s daughters married gentiles / other Arabs, so wouldn’t the priest sons have also done this? Yes in the book of Ezra we find the Levites had married the Arab women around them and produced children with them. These women and children were sent back to their Arab families.
Through out Europe, there are a multitude of family records where “Jews” married others and they married Germans up until 1938 when it was made illegal.
Through out Europe there are hundreds of thousands of marriage records between goys and Jews.
THE ISRAELITES TRADED THEIR SONS AND DAUGHTERS
IN MARRIAGE BETWEEN TRIBES.
After a dispute about the homosexuals who murdered the wife of an Israelite, the tribe of Benjamin had a civil war with the rest of the Israelites and thousands were killed.
After the smoke cleared, they were sorry and there was a big problem, because the 11 tribes had promised they would no longer trade their sons and daughters with the Benjamites in marriage.
JUDGES 21:5
And the children of Israel
said, Who is there among all the tribes of Israel that came not up with the congregation to the Lord? For they
had made a great oath
concerning him that came not up to the Lord to Mizpeh, saying, He shall surely be put to death.
JUDGES 21:6 And
the children of Israel repented them for Benjamin their brother , and said, There is one tribe cut off from Israel this day.
JUDGES 21:7
How shall we do for wives for them that remain, seeing we have sworn by the Lord that we will not give them of our daughters to wives ?
When the rest of the tribes began to fight the Benjamites, they promised they excluded the Benjamites in the practice of swapping sons and daughters between tribes.
LEVITES MARRYING NON LEVITES
Exod 2:15 Moses split to Midian… that is in area of present day Saudia Arabia. (Moses was a Levite), Exod 2:21 Moses married Zipporah .. the Midianite.
EXODUS 6:23 And
Aaron
took him
Elisheba , daughter of
Amminadab , sister of Naashon, to wife; and she bare him Nadab, and Abihu, Eleazar, and Ithamar.
NUMBERS 1:7
Of Judah ; Nahshon the son of
Amminadab .
NUMBERS 2:3 ..
Nahshon the son of Amminadab
shall be captain of
the children of Judah .
The sons of Judah came out of a non Levite (Tribe of Judah)
Lev 22:12 If the daughter of a priest marries a stranger ( Levites wed to non Israelite)
she may not eat any of the sacred contributions.
EZRA 9:1 The princes came to me, saying,
The people of Israel, and the priests, and the Levites, have not separated themselves from the people of the lands , doing according to their abominations, even of
the Canaanites, the Hittites, the Perizzites, the Jebusites, the Ammonites, the Moabites, the Egyptians, and the Amorites .
EZRA 9:2
For they have taken of their daughters for themselves, and for their sons: so that the holy seed have mingled themselves with the people of those lands :
(this is just a small fraction of the marriages of with non Israelites… i.e. even Solomon had a thousand women)
EZRA 10:2
We have … have taken strange wives of the people of the land
EZRA 10:3
Let us make a convenient with our God to put away all the wives, and such as are born of them
… There went
children of priests and all kinds of isrealites back into all those nations.
EZRA 10:9
It was the ninth month, on the twentieth day of the month
EZRA 10:11 … separate yourselves from the strange wives.
EZRA 10:13 we are not able to do this in one day or two
EZRA 10:15 Jonathan and Jahaziah and Meshullam and were put in charge.
EZRA 10:16
Ezra the priest, with certain chief of the fathers
were separated, and sat down in
the first day of the tenth month
to examine the matter.
EZRA 10:17 And they made an end with all the men that had taken strange wives by the
first day of the first month .
First day of the 10th month to the first day of the first month (Jan 1) would be 2 months, so it took 2 months of processing by all these Israelites to get rid of these wives and their children
EZRA 10:18 And
among the sons of the priests
there were found that had taken strange wives: namely, of
the sons of Jeshua
and his brethren;
Maaseiah , and
Eliezer , and
Jarib , and
Gedaliah .
EZRA 10:23 Also of the
Levites; Jozabad, and Shimei, and Kelaiah, (the same is Kelita,) Pethahiah, Judah, and Eliezer .
EZRA 10:44 All these had taken strange wives… by whom they had children.
AND THESE
.
Israelites were produced by a mix that came to include Egyptians, Moabites and Canaanites.
David is a descendant of Moabites, The tribe of Judah and Simeon came out of Canaanite women and the tribe of Joseph came out of an Egyptian mother.
Abraham and Sarah were Chaldeans (Iraq and Jordan in modern terms), Rebekah, Lean and Rachel were Syrians, the mother of Rehoboam an Ammonite, the mother of the children of Moses a Midianite (Saudia Arabian), Jezebel the Lebanese (Zidionian) mother of kings of Israel… Isrealites
share DNA markers with their Arab neighbors, since having been a tribe of the region.
Share this: Twitter Facebook Tumblr Email More Print Reddit Google LinkedIn Like this: Like
Loading...
Related
Previous
Blood Moon Prophecy
Next
Babylonia
3 Comments
( +add yours? )
Giroux
Mar 29, 2012
@ 02:36:07
Yesterday, while I was at work, my sister stole my iPad and tested to see if it can survive a 25 foot drop, just so she can be a youtube sensation. My iPad is now destroyed and she has 83 views. I know this is completely off topic but, I had to share it with someone!
Reply
Shayne Renova
Mar 25, 2012
@ 16:35:41
Just want to tell you that I absolutely liked this presentation. You absolutely have great posts. With thanks for sharing it.
Reply
Performa
Mar 07, 2012
@ 19:59:15
I like this content, here so am pressing the like button on this!
Reply
Leave a Reply
Cancel reply
Enter your comment here...
Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:
Email
(Address never made public)
Name
Website
You are commenting using your WordPress.com account.
(  Log Out  /  Change  )
You are commenting using your Twitter account.
(  Log Out  /  Change  )
You are commenting using your Facebook account.
(  Log Out  /  Change  )
You are commenting using your Google+ account.
(  Log Out  /  Change  )
Cancel
Connecting to %s
Notify me of new comments via email.
Notify me of new posts via email.
Categories
Ancient Origins Of Astrology
Antikythera Device
Chaldean Legend
Dignities Tables
Link For Private Discussion
OPEN DISCUSSION
Open For Discussion
Recommendations For Question Formulation
Uncategorized
Universal Model / Astrology / Horary
9th House of Astrology
Higher Knowledge and Devine
Horary Astrology
Pages
About
GIA.HORARY
Private Horary Consultation
Antikyther Machine Model Front Panel
Astrology 9 House Matter Comes From The 8 House Matter of Life and Death – From The Fruit of the Tree of Knowledge
CHALDEAN LEGEND
Machine d’Anticythére
TAMMUZ
THE TREE OF KNOWLEDGE OF GOOD AND EVIL
Follow Blog via Email
Enter your email address to follow this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Blog at WordPress.com .
•
The Koi Theme .
Follow
Follow “Gia.Horary”
Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.
Build a website with WordPress.com
Send to Email Address
Your Name
Your Email Address
Cancel
Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
%d
bloggers like this: