Footballers Convention
» Preview
Footballers Convention
The Best of Football: Shaken, not Stirred
2012/2013 Premiership Preview… Sort Of
August 16th, 2012 by SeveSanchez
“ The man in black fled across the desert, and the gunslinger followed .”
No, that’s not the setup to a chavtastic Suarez/Evra joke (bummer?), but the iconic opening line from Stephen King’s Magnum Opus,
The Gunslinger .  It’s one of those hooks that reels you in with a sort of tenacity unseen since
Scorpion from Mortal Kombat .  It’s simple yet brilliant.  It pretty much captures the feeling of every Premier League fan on the eve of our new season.
This Saturday the campaign kicks off, hopefully picking up where
the last one left off , which was approximately on the edge of a cliff in the middle of a tornado on the back of a lightning bolt.  Imagine the first time you saw a picture of a cat on the interwebz, then multiply it by Gandalf and throw in a few Cruyff turns, and you understand the sort of epicness we’re dealing with here.  Fergie’s
“You bred raptors!?” look
as Aguero stunned his side, City fans celebrating with shamelessness that would make Chris Bosh uncomfortable, mighty Man United disappearing into exile to lick their wounds, Roberto Mancini vindicating his poofy haircut and scarf — we had it all.  Why not have it all again?
Oh yeah.  There were just a couple things separating last season from this one:  EURO 2012 and the Olympics.  If you missed any of the Euros, feel free to peruse the site since I LIVE-CHATTED EVERY SINGLE MATCH!  Seriously, I did EURO 2012 to death.  We laughed and cried together, she broke my heart a little, and now I’m ready to move on with my life.  In fact, I basically did a runner as soon as Spain lifted the trophy.  See, Olympic soccer is like the
summer reading
you get assigned in high school.  It doesn’t require a ton of your time and some of the stories sound genuinely interesting, but after finals you’re so burned out that you never end up checking them out.  That’s right, I just called out every single person in the world for neglecting their summer reading ( I Know What You
Didn’t
Do Last Summer ?).  But I did manage to squeeze a few minutes of Olympic action onto my plate, and I’ve thrown my thoughts into an abridged section with a killer, witty name.
What I Learned from the Olympics
Neymar is the truth.  So many times with these Brazilian wonderkids it’s like summoning
Bloody Mary
trying to get them to show up when you finally have a chance to watch them.  Neymar was already looking at us in the mirror when we walked into the bathroom (super creepy imagery — befitting of a man that adorns his nose with the most awkward apparatus ever).  Sure, he had to settle for a Silver Medal, but he proved that his talents are very much real and as special as they’ve been hyped.  I’m not denying the huge risk it will be for a European club to claim him, but the ceiling on this kid is in the Ronaldosphere.
Someone get Ballack's stylist on the scene!
The English FA at some point made a pact with the devil.  Maybe it was for the 1966 World Cup, maybe it was in the 1990s for all the popularity and revenue of the Premier League, maybe it was for Beckham’s hair, but for England/Britain to continually torture themselves with penalty shootout heartbreaks, well, I’m pretty sure Satan is quarterbacking that thing.
Carli Lloyd has been the most important player for the US Women’s Team for the last couple years now.  Her goals in the Final merely cement that fact, and earn her some long overdue recognition.  Hope Solo makes headlines with quotes, Abby Wambach with beast mode, and Alex Morgan with a goal/hearthrob combo.  But it’s Lloyd who runs the show with intelligence and grace, setting tables and throwing shapes.  Not unlike a boss.  Also, props for a hearty challenge for the title of “Summer 2012′s Most Popular Carli,” which
seemed all but locked up a month ago .
Gaston Ramirez — What are you?  Are you supposed to be a midfielder or a winger?  Are you good or overrated?  I still can’t tell.  In fact, the whole Uruguayan performance was confusing.  What?
Despite winning it all, there isn’t a single player from the Mexican team I have tagged for immediate superstardom.  The strength of their results came on the back of composed defensive play, which is about as Mexican as Pork Lo Mein.  Great team effort, but not many little peas ready for being plucked by the European status quo.  Not yet.
*****
Of course, no new league campaign would be ready for launch without the off-season jockeying.  So far it’s been more bark than bite, but that usually just means we’ll get a flurry of chips splashing the pot right before the transfer window shuts.  [ EDITOR'S NOTE:  This was written before Arsenal agreed to sell RVP to Man United ].  Naturally, I still have some snarky Off-Season Awards to hand out to some well deserving winners.
Quiet Game Champion:
Carlos Tevez .  When we were children, we used to play something called the Quiet Game just get the obnoxious kid in our class to shut the hell up.  Basically, we sacrificed our own affinity for any conversation to get said child to keep his mouth closed.  It was like a reverse psychology filibuster — very much ahead of its time.  Congrats to Tevez who manged to go an entire 3 months without making a sound about his future.  We needed that.  Runner-up goes to Robin van Persie, who has actually kept his class intact despite being bid for like the sex traffickers in the
penultimate scene
in
Taken .  [ Minus 50 points for going directly to a rival of Arsenal, but at least he didn't whinge about it all summer ].
Most Dedicated to Keeping One Token Asian in the Squad :
Manchester United .  If you ship out Ji-Sung Park and bring in Shinji Kagawa, does the tree make a sound?  Oh, and if you’re a lonely male age 18-100, do a search on Kagawa’s girlfriend.  Imagine the possibilities for locker room banter.
Worst Opinion on Football :
Usain Bolt .  First of all, just because you’re faster than a cheetah in a Fiat, that doesn’t mean you can walk into one of the best football teams in the world.  Doesn’t work that way.  But more importantly, Ronaldo isn’t better than Messi.  He’s just cockier.  And I think I’m starting to hate you for trying to make “Ronaldo v Messi” a thing again.
Stop trying to make “fetch” happen !
Laziest Scouting Departments :
PSG and Tottenham .  Here’s how they scout.  Wait until the rumors circulate about who Man United and Liverpool want to buy.  Go buy them first with more money.  Simples.
Most Played Out Phrase :
Tiki-Taka .  Tiki-taka is to football what YOLO is to mankind.  So, once it’s universally accepted as worthless I’ll try to bring it out to hurt people’s brains.
Living on a Lifeboat Excludees :
Joe Cole, Bebe, Marouane Chamakh, John Obi Mikel, Roque Santa Cruz, David Bentley,
Alberto Aquilani .  Congratulations, guys!  The world would be a much better place if you never existed at all.  Okay, that’s a little harsh, but your Premier League teams certainly dream of the day they no longer have to employ you and your wages.
Most Likely to Have Been Built by Geppetto :
Joe Allen .  So Liverpool’s summer signing is a midget with an enormous nose, but somehow
I’m
the bad guy for pointing out the
elephant in the room ?
Raspberry Beret Award for Cleverness :
Eden Hazard .   There’s a terrific lyric in Prince’s cult classic that goes “She wasn’t too bright/But I could tell when she kissed me/ She knew how to get her kicks.”  This pretty much sums up Hazard, who made himself out to be a bit of a bellend this summer with his
Lebron-esque antics
(understatement, no?).  But boy can he get his kicks.  Hazard is built for one thing, and that’s fashioning goals on the pitch.
*****
2012/2013 Predictions
Champions
– Manchester City
Last year, City had to claw their way to glory on judgement day, a marvelous achievement for a perennially disappointing club.  This time, I see them doing the proverbial electric slide to the finish line.  They’ve lost nothing from last season, but haven’t won enough to be complacent yet.  Also, I think the EUROs were huge for Mario Balotelli’s confidence ( poor guy really needed an ego boost ).  I’m expecting less Mario Clownpants and more Mario Bossypants now.  Also, Mancini should have a better grasp in how to rest Silva to prolong his shelf life.  No rebuilding for City, just reloading.
Runners-up
— Chelsea
Chelsea in “spend silly money” shocker, right?  Well, the European Champs have been busy beavers this summer, most notably recruiting Eden Hazard, Oscar, and Marko Marin.  (And by recruiting, I mean inviting players to dive into Abramovich’s pool of money like Uncle Scrooge from
Ducktails ).  But they’ve been excellent signings as far as talent goes.  Unfortunately, I think Drogba hasn’t been effectively replaced by the Torres/Sturridge partnership, and that will prove the difference between toppling City and chasing them.
3rd Place
— Manchester United
Kagawa has been excellent for Dortmund and I expect him to do well in a United shirt…. That’s about the extent of my positivity for the Red Devils this year.  After having their hearts ripped out at the death, how will they respond?  And while Fergie stockpiles wide boys, his central midfield gets thinner every year.  Scholes (and Giggs) are fighting Father Time, Fletcher’s health is unfortunate, and Anderson has never become the player he was billed as.  Any knock to Carrick or Cleverly will put United in dire straits.  That said, they’re still United so by decree of the FA they will grind out results and finish in the top 3.  [ Okay, obviously the RVP signing is huge, but what are the chances he plays out of his mind AND stays injury free like last year?  There's a term for people who predict injury on someone and it rhymes with "trucking tanker," but I just don't see him making it to May unscathed.  Sorry ].
4th Place
— Arsenal
I was really looking for a way to justify Liverpool getting 4th, but I can’t do it.  Not yet.  (If they somehow pull off Nuri Sahin, Clint Dempsey, and Cristian Tello, I’ll edit this to sneak Liverpool in 4th).  Leave it to Wenger, whose superstar striker is on the menu of  every big European club [ like, uh, United ], to go and have himself a prodigious transfer window.  Giroud, Podolski, and Cazorla leave the Gunners in capable hands as RVP jets.  A maturing Oxlade-Chamberlain and the return of Wilshere to fitness will prove to be keys to a top 4 finish.
The voyeur
does it again folks!
Don’t Get Too Attached, Because…
– Southampton, West Brom, QPR.
I was hoping to squeeze Aston Villa into the relegation zone with some “Too Big to Fail” jokes, but I think they’ll be safe this season.  To my displeasure, I’ve had to select Southampton for extinction.  I enjoy having the Saints in the top flight, perhaps irrationally optimistic for Le Tissier mock 2, but they’ve punched above their weight to get back, and I think it’ll be a quick return to the Championship for the southerners.  Queens Park Rangers held onto the Premier League with their fingernails last year, and I’m doubting they can do it again.  21 losses and -23 goal difference is hard to just turn around with confidence; the Londoners are going down.  And West Brom?  I’ll be
celebrating their demise
should it come to fruition.  Mid-table Master Hodgson had them finish 10th last season, but he’s got the England job now and I’m praying for a rapid fall from grace for the Baggies.
*****
20 Players to Watch
Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain ,
Arsenal :  Breakout season predicted by many for the young Englishman.  Looks like Arsene Wenger is ready to give him the golden ticket.  Nobody is doubting his nickname, The Ox, but often youth is a double edged sword.  Is there anybody who loves kids more than Wenger, the perpetual tickle monster?
Ron Vlaar ,
Aston Villa :  The Feyenoord stalwart will make
his Premiership debut for a team that desperately needs him to hit the
ground running.  No pressure, Ronny, just go out and make sure nobody scores on your team, kthxbai.
Just Vlaar, baby.
Eden Hazard ,
Chelsea :  When you pay so much money for someone entering his peak, you expect instant greatness.  And before you start saying “he cost the same as Andy Carroll,” he doesn’t.  He’s on about £250k a week, or 3 times the wages of one A.C.  Feel poor yet?
Nikica Jelavic ,
Everton :  The Croatian striker with a
West Hollywood haircut
was talismanic for the Toffees last year.  Can he pick up where he left off?
Moussa Dembele ,
Fulham :  For a couple years I’ve been bigging him up, and while he’s looked sharp, he’s lacked the numbers to make himself a star.  Props to his agent for circulating a rumor that Real Madrid are after him — that takes some doing.  But it’s time to put up or shut up.
Fabio Borini ,
Liverpool :  The new boy with a dagger between his teeth is on Merseyside for one purpose only — get the ball in the net.  Liverpool were the most wasteful club with created chances last season, so Borini ought to have himself a host of opportunities.  That’s the theory, at least.
David Silva ,
Man City :  Last year’s uber maestro, can he do it again?  City better hope he does, as they rise and fall with Silva’s waxing and waning form.  And the Spaniard will certainly be a marked man by every
British lad with a shaved head
in the League.  Keep your eye on him.  He’s like a heartbeat.
Robin van Persie ,
Man United :  Assuming the deal doesn’t fall through, RVP is as good as Fergie’s.  He was the most lethal man in the League in 20122/2012, can he and Rooney actualize the most mouthwatering FIFA partnership?  Hope the United physio has cleared his schedule!
Cheick Tiote ,
Newcastle :  Speaking of injury woes, I give you Tiote!  Pound for pound one of the most effective players in England, any sustained challenge from Newcastle for a European spot depends on his fitness.  And how fun is his name to pronounce?  Rolls off your tongue like Limoncello.
Grant Holt ,
Norwich City :  Because I had to pick someone?  No, the English striker encapsulates everything that is a journeyman footballer.  If you ever want to learn some obscure British geography, take a look at his club career.  That said, he found the net 15 times last year in his first stint in the Prem.
Don't look at his forehead!
Too late.
Adel Taarabt ,
Queens Park Rangers : There were so many options for QPR; quite a
dirty dozen
ensemble they’ve got going on there.  But for me it’s the Moroccan magician who’s the key for QPR’s hopes this year.  He loves to score a cracker and shows up against the big teams — that’s how you make sure you’re on my list, son!
Pavel Pogrebnyak ,
Reading :  The Russian striker stunk up EURO2012 but I SWEAR THAT’S NEVER HAPPENED BEFORE, BABY!  If Reading truly is a league of nations (Australia, Wales, England, Turkey, Scotland, Jamaica, Antigua, Ireland, Mali, Latvia, Iceland, Denmark, Grenada) then it only makes sense that the Russian will unite them all at his service.  In Soviet Reading, goals score Pogrebnyak!
Tadanari Lee ,
Southampton :  A newer signing for the Saints, many are hoping that the former Japanese prodigy is HUGE in the UK.  He signed in January and got injured in March, but his lone goal won the Strike of the Season.
Let’s see it then .
Peter Crouch ,
Stoke City :  If only because it’s like watching a Daddy Longlegs play with a beachball.  Crouch, like Tadanari Lee, normally gets on the scoresheet with gusto– a rarity for a squad as thuggish as Stoke.
Seb Larsson ,
Sunderland :  The Swede with the golden peg (and head) is now a fixture for Sunderland.  Every time he lines up a free kick, fix your eyes nowhere but the action.  He’s a gem that shines too brightly to be next to
Scotland .
Michel Vorm ,
Swansea City :  The outstanding goalkeeper last term, his performances perhaps inflated the rave reviews his teammates won with their possession.  If he’s anywhere off his game, Swansea will look like a pack of ponces.
Gylfi Sigurdsson ,
Tottenham : Well, I’ve got to see what the fuss was all about.  Is he still a goalscorer extraordinaire, or will he be found out in a top side?  Also, if he had a son named Steve, would the child’s name be Steve Gylfisson?  Someone let me know.
Romelu Lukaku ,
West Brom :  If he is indeed the striking future of Chelsea, certainly he’ll do the business for the Baggies.  A word of advice though, don’t try to be Didier Drogba,  Just be Romelu Lukaku.  You’re welcome, Chelsea fans.
We get it, Kevin.
You're superman.
Kevin Nolan ,
West Ham :  Kevin Nolan, ageless wonder.  As soon as he climbed triumphantly out of his mother’s womb, he immediately was given the captain’s armband.  At his first birthday, he climbed to head his piñata open and
Sam Allardyce
cried tears of joy.  Hammers fans must love Kevin Nolan.
Antolin Alcaraz ,
Wigan :  There’s something about the Paraguayan defender that makes him a centerpiece of every Wigan match.  He’s a lightning rod for altercations, goals at either end of the pitch, and just general uproarious activity.  If you’re forced to watch a Wigan match this season, see what I mean.  Tell me I’m not right.
Honorable Mentions:
Lukas Podolski, Marc Albrighton, Oscar, Steven Pienaar, Mahamadou Diarra, Luis Suarez, Yaya Toure, David de Gea, Papiss Cisse, James Vaughan, Joey Barton, Danny Guthrie, Kelvin Davis, Robert Huth, Connor Wickham, Leon Britton, Jan Vertonghen, Peter Odemwingie, Alou Diarra, Jean Beausejour.
*****
There are some things that are guaranteed to happen over the course of a Premier League season.  Fouls will be debated… Wenger will conveniently miss incidents… Howard Webb will be accused of favoritism… David Luiz will begin
every tweet
with #geezers #hellogeezers… Points will be stolen… Bartons will be banned… Posts will be rattled… managers will be sacked… Balotellis will steal headlines… Cats will invade pitches (okay, maybe not every year)…
But there is still so much more to come that none of us can predict.  Can’t wait.  Who knows how the story of the season ends?  Who is this man in black and why is the gunslinger chasing him?  Who will score the goal of the season, blow the biggest lead, or impress out of nowhere?  Couldn’t tell ya.  I’ve made my picks, given my previews, now I get to sit and watch and enjoy the drama as all my bets go down in flames.  Love it.  All I
do
know is that I couldn’t stand to miss a single minute of the madness, and when it’s all over I hope I live to tell those younger than I of the great Premiership Season of 2012/2013.  And if I sound something like this, even better:
Tags:
Premiership ,
Preview
Comments Off
Posted in
England ,
Premiership ,
SeveSanchez
EURO 2012: Previews, Predictions, and Apocrypha
June 4th, 2012 by SeveSanchez
The year was 1974.  The collection of Swedes had talent, no doubt, but were very young.  Inexperienced, unknown quantity–all the cliches the critics could use to doll up their gently rendered putdowns.  But these Swedes had heart.  So much so that when it came to the Finals, the mighty Italians and Dutch had to settle for 2nd and 3rd place.  This competition belonged to the Swedes.
No, I’m not talking about the 1974 World Cup.  The competition I’m referring to is the 1974 Eurovision contest, won by upstart pop group ABBA.  Given Sweden’s dearth of football pedigree, ABBA’s shocking triumph might serve as the best model for the Swedes at EURO 2012.  And here’s to hoping it does, as I’m putting my neck out for the Land of Blonde in my first prediction.
1. The Fate of Sweden
I don’t think I’ve heard a single pundit give them a serious shout.  Everybody assumes they’ll meet their Waterloo in the group stage (if you got that joke, please get out more).  But why should they?
For me, Sweden has their most balanced squad in many tournaments; a mix of experience and youth, grit and flair, pragmatism and cockiness.  And perhaps their biggest asset, given the injury woes of their groupmates, is their apparent health (John Guidetti’s absence excluded).  The old guard at the back of Mellberg and Isaksson should be prove formidable.  The emergence of Rasmus Elm means Kallstrom is no longer expected to control the entire midfield by himself (thank God, it just wasn’t working).  Seb Larsson is coming off good form for Sunderland, and his set pieces will be a valuable commodity.  Ola Toivonen has quietly carved a reputation as a capable forward.  And finally, THE Zlatan Ibrahimovic.  He’s
simply the best .  He should actually receive decent service, rather than having to do it all himself (he totally
can , he just usually isn’t that bothered).  Maybe Ibra has been jaded long enough internationally, he just might taste a chance for success now…
If they can sneak out of their group, who is to say they can’t make a long run?  At
69/1 , I think they’d be worth a little bet to win it all, sure.  The value is there.   And they have won all 3 of their matches in 2012, if you’re looking for some peer pressure to pull the trigger.  Look.  England and France will go to war with each other for 100 years, if Sweden can keep their heads down and beat Ukraine, they will escape the group.  Group C is a bit tumultuous for me (more on than later), and anything is possible after that.  Ask Greece in 2004.  Get out of the group and they’ve got a great chance.
It’s a longshot, but I see Sweden in the semifinals.
Poland are in safe hands?
2.  Poland to Win Group A with 9 Points
The Poles are masters of beating up the teams they’re supposed to beat.  Group A fodder fits the bill nicely.  Greece, Russia, and the Czech Republic will
crumble like a Jenga sandcastle
against the nation who’s HOSTING THE TOURNAMENT.  Who knows, maybe Poland will earn a rematch with Germany?  They drew 2-2 in September, if you like to get excited about… getting excited.  If I were Germany, I’d be hoping to avoid Poland in the knockout round.  Fireworks could be in the cards.
3. Italian Tragedy
This one hurts a little.  Almost.  But something ugly is brewing again in Italian football, and this time I don’t foresee everything being plastered over with an improbable World Cup victory.  Sorry, amici.  It’s usually not a great sign when your manager says
he’d have no issue if the team withdrew from EURO 2012 .  Or when you get smoked 3-0 by Russia in a routine warmup.  Or when a player has to abandon the team due to direct implications of match-fixing.
Giuseppi Rossi can’t walk at the moment.  The defense basically consists of Chiellini, who can
only
walk as of writing.  The midfield is average, with no Gattusso to allow Pirlo to operate.  De Rossi and Montolivo have slightly regressed this season, which they cannot afford to do without a Totti to garner attention at the top of the midfield.  Di Natale scores for fun, but he’s never looked his best in Azzurri.  The same can be said for Cassano, who’s still finding his form after having a heart attack this season (bad omen #347, your 20-something-old forward is having heart attacks).
This leaves the hopes of Italy on one man’s shoulders: Mario Balotelli.  The neutrals couldn’t be happier, but the Italians must smell disaster.  The proverbial writing should be on the wall for Italy after their opening match against Spain.  Implosion and a failure to escape Group C (annihilation in the knockout stage at best) awaits the Italians.
4.  Golden Boot Watch
Other than the not-super-awesome odds (10/1), little has swayed my belief in Mr. Robin Van Persie to finish top scorer in the tournament.  Holland could easily get into  a few shootouts (metaphorically speaking) with Denmark, Germany, and Portugal.  And RVP does handle penalty duties (not quite a metaphor).  The biggest detriment to Van Persie is that Dutch goals tend to come from anywhere and everywhere. ( Remember this? ).
Mario Gomez, who you can get at 9/1, is just too risky for me.  His record for Bayern is terrific, but I can’t put my confidence in perhaps the worst player at EURO 2008.  Besides, Klose sucks up international goals like some sort of German Hoover.  Sorry, just the messenger.
Zlatan Ibrahimovic is great value at 50/1, especially if you’re buying my Sweden fairytale.  One note about Ibra is that he usually scores consistently throughout the season, rather than in bunches, which is preferred for tournaments.  Is that why the odds are so high?
Oh, nevermind about that Golden Boot thingy
Balotelli is available at 33/1.  That’s all I’m saying.
HOMER ALERT:  Andy Carroll is available at the same odds as Ibra.  Carroll could ride the bench for the entire tournament, he could score 5 against the Urkaine.  Neither would surprise me.  He’s as capable of tripping over himself as he is putting inferior teams to the sword.  His volatile style of play is the English translation of Balotelli’s personality.  Just throwing AC in the mix for you Anglophiles.
Finally, David Silva at 85/1 is a very intriguing choice.  The identity of the Spanish team is unclear, and without Villa, someone must put the ball in the net.  Why not Silva?
5.  Spain to Lose in the Quarterfinals
All good things must come to an end.  After winning EURO 2008 and WC 2010, this tournament will one day be long forgotten in Spanish history books.  Spain, quite simply, are running out of the gas (and luck) needed to win a 3rd major international trophy.  For me, the faltering of Barcelona and Real Madrid in the Champions League indicate a clear crack in the Spanish war machinery.  And Madrid’s La Liga triumph owed more to its foreign players than to the domestic clique (with apologies to Casillas and Alonso, both excellent this year).
No David Villa, no
Carles Puyol , and no Capdevila puts pressure on the squad members in Poland.  Torres has been too unpredictable to rely on by himself, but he doesn’t play well with Llorente or Negredo.  Del Bosque might rue the decision to omit Soldado and Muniain, who would bring far lass drama and controversy to his side.  Spain have all the talent in the world, but who will put the team on his back when it’s needed?
Group C is so murky, I think Spain can afford to stumble into the knockout round.  But that won’t be enough when they meet potent opposition, and it will be thoroughly over in the first knockout round.
6.  The Worst Team at EURO 2012 will be…
України!  That’s Ukraine (I think).  I hate their squad, with the exception of Anatoliy Tymoshchuk.  For years Shevchenko masked their deficiencies with some inspiring displays, but the old dog doesn’t have the bark or the bite to prevent a triplet of defeats.  Andriy Voronin could feature, for Christ’s sake!  England, France, and Sweden are all prowling in the right direction; Ukraine should be very concerned.
Plus, if you have “supporters” who are ignorant enough to garner attention for inciting racial abuse, you’re likely to discover you have “supporters” who will turn on your team at the first sign of adversity.  Karma.
7.  The Savior of England
England have a messiah of football.  He’s young enough to be reckless, but wise enough to be patient.  He is influential, capable of pulling all the right puppet strings from the middle of the pitch.  He defends like a lion–no, three lions–with tackles as nasty as they are precise.  You could hang your hat on his bravery, and every Yorkshire lad would kill to have that privilege.  He knows where the goal is, ripping both venomous shots and savage curlers.  He jinxs and bombs his way into the box, often producing energetic brilliance with ideas incomprehensible to the spectator.  He is all that an English footballer should be.
This man will lead England to glory, to the major honors they so desperately crave.  He will do it all in a manner no-nonsense, yet without compromising his playboy genius.  He will be knighted at Buckingham Palace and paraded through the streets of Kings Cross.
Except he will not, because this footballer does not exist.
"Journalism"
The footballer I’ve described is a myth, an amalgamation of traditional
English sporting values
and a comic book hero forged by decades of London press.  He is part Gerrard, part Rooney, part Gascoigne, part Beckham, part Lineker, part Robson, part Moore, and part Charlton– but neither of them entirely.  He is a contradictory, unachievable standard created within English culture that can never be reached.  And as every English player since 1966 has failed to encapsulate this iconic concept, each one faces abject criticism and borderline ridicule from the domestic media.  It cripples every England team and their tournament is virtually over as soon as it starts.
I can’t explain why I always root for England to win, Lord knows the English hate to see America succeed.  But I think if the media can lower their expectations, which a throng of injuries and a Rooney suspension should aid, and the fans can accept that none of their players will be Churchill on the Pitch– maybe England can go all the way.
Maybe .
Of course, England have 6 Liverpool players in the team, so they could always hit the post forty times and draw every match.  But I think squeaky Roy Hodgson will make the 1-0 victory an art form, as much as a man with Looney Tunes speech impediment can.  I see England beating Spain in the knockout round (should they meet), and losing to Germany in the Final.
8.  If You Could Only Watch One Group Game
…It
would have to be Germany-Netherlands (June 13th).  I wanted to pick
something else, but my conscience wouldn’t let me.  Too much history,
too much talent, too much potential for a goal-fest.  Don’t overthink
this one, just give in.  Feels good.
Honorable Mentions go to Netherlands-Portugal for a rematch of the 2006 Massacre, and
Ireland-Spain
for best supported underdog.
But the answer is Germany-Netherlands.
9.  Breakout Stars
You know all about your Ronaldos, Riberys, and Robbens. Here are some players you might not know (enough) about, that should try to use the European Championship as a platform for a big club move:
Christian Eriksen:
20-year-old midfielder for Ajax.  Any potential success for Denmark here is pinned entirely on the young attacker.  He’s been groomed for greatness his whole life, he will be hoping to make a Michael Laudrup splash.
Robert Lewandoski :  23-year-old striker for Borussia Dortmund and Poland.  The home nation will hope he carries on his excellent form, but Dortmund supporters might wish he remains quiet at the Euros.  German fans have gotten to know him the last two years during BvB’s reign, but he’s criminally underrated by the rest of European football aristocracy.
The Kim Kardashian of the EUROs: Famous for being Famous
Sotiris Ninis : 22-year-old Greek attacker.  Currently just signed for Parma, so he won’t be moving again for a minute, but I included him anyway.  He’s had so much hype and so little end product thus far.  Group A is now or never for the young Greek.
Aleksandr Kokorin : 21-year-old Russian striker currently with Dynamo Moscow.  I have to confess, I’ve never seen him play.  But I’ve had him recommended as one to watch.  So temper your expectations, but keep him on your radar and act smug if he shines.
Gregory van der Wiel : 24-year-old right back for Ajax and Netherlands.  He’s a speed merchant and a tidy defender entering his prime.
Somebody will snap him up this summer.  Chelsea are the current favorites to bid £55 million.  (It’s scary that you had to check if that number was a joke, isn’t it?).
Kevin Strootman : 22-year-old midfielder for PSV and Netherlands.  He’s only been at Eindhoven for a year, but already the club can’t even handle him right now.  Reminds me of a young Xabi Alonso, spraying elegant passes with delightful ease.  If Wesley Sneijder is injured, Strootman will get major exposure.
Luuk de Jong : 21-year-old Dutch striker playing for FC Twente.  Scores goals for fun in the Dutch league (who doesn’t, right?) but will be fighting for minutes with his compatriots.  His move might be another year away, but he’s developing the right reputation.
Andre Schurrle:
21-year-old German winger for Bayer Leverkusen.  Another player who will be fighting for minutes, but deserves a good look.  Schurrle’s versatility is his biggest asset, and his role as a supporting player should not be trivialized.
Mario Gotze :  20-year-old German attacking midfielder currently with Dortmund.  I’m cheating with this one because A) everybody knows he’s the future of German football and B) I can’t see him leaving the only club he’s been with since age 9.  But I don’t want you to be surprised when Real Madrid start getting linked with him mid-tournament.
Javi Martinez :  21-year-old Spanish “midfielder” for Bilbao.  He’s been billed as a defensive midfielder, but he spent the entire 2011-2012 season as a center back for his club.  His strength and individual skill sometimes mask his lack of pace, but he’d be a worthy investment for many a top club.  Will Del Bosque trust him to deputize for Puyol though?
Jordi Alba :  23-year-old left back for Spain and Valencia.  Personally, I’ve been a bit underwhelmed by his displays, but he’s considered the heir apparent to Capdevila.  Getting a starting spot for Spain is a big honor, and he’ll certainly try his best to justify his selection.
Rasmus Elm :  24-year-old midfielder for Sweden and AZ Alkmaar.  Another strong ball-player who’s known for scoring from set pieces.  He’s flown under the radar despite being a major factor in Sweden’s national setup.  If he plays poorly, my Sweden prediction will look awfully dumb.  If he performs, sky is the limit.
Ola Toivonen :  25-year-old Swedish striker currently with PSV.  Finally, another goalscorer to lighten the load for Zlatan Ibrahimovic.  Toivonen is at the make-or-break age now, so he should be firing on all cylinders in Ukraine.
Yann M’Vila : 21-year-old French midfielder with Rennes.  Please please please don’t miss EURO 2012 with an ankle injury.  M’Vila, an all action defensive midfielder, is an integral cog in France’s plans for the tournament.  He misses and the French are toast, simple as that.  Keep your eye on this one.
10.  Germany to Win EURO 2012 .
Because
it is just their time.  How close can you keep coming to winning a
major
tournament and still remain
German ?  Total paradox.
The
squad
is strong, talented, experienced, and balanced.  They attack
with both
creativity and ruthless efficiency.  They defend with
organization and
courage.  And, as per usual, the ethos of the German
squad remains in
perfect harmony with its loyal fanbase–the type of
intangible needed
to win a major tournament.
At
3/1
odds, Germany remain my favorite pick to be the last team
standing.
(Interesting note:  you can get Germany/Van Persie as
Winner/Top Scorer
for 50/1).  Get some.
See you Friday!  Until then, may the goals flock like the Salmon of Capistrano.
Tags:
Euro 2012 ,
Preview
1 Comment »
Posted in
EURO 2012 ,
Europe ,
SeveSanchez
Main Menu
What is Footballers Convention?
Contact
Advertise
Need More Football News?
Categories
African Cup of Nations
(3)
Art of Football
(24)
Away from the Pitch
(32)
Bundesliga
(2)
Champions League
(11)
England
(57)
EURO 2012
(29)
Europe
(44)
FabioDicecca
(5)
Friendly
(5)
Germany
(3)
International
(114)
Italy
(14)
La Liga
(9)
Live Blog
(92)
MarkBrown
(1)
Premiership
(49)
Serie A
(12)
SeveSanchez
(246)
Spain
(10)
Throwbacks
(1)
Transfer Business
(12)
USA
(7)
Website Info
(2)
World Cup 2010
(83)
World Cup 2014
(24)
Archives
July 2014
June 2014
March 2013
January 2013
December 2012
November 2012
October 2012
August 2012
July 2012
June 2012
May 2012
April 2012
March 2012
February 2012
January 2012
December 2011
November 2011
October 2011
September 2011
August 2011
July 2011
June 2011
May 2011
March 2011
February 2011
January 2011
December 2010
November 2010
October 2010
September 2010
August 2010
July 2010
June 2010
May 2010
April 2010
March 2010
February 2010
January 2010
December 2009
November 2009
October 2009
September 2009
August 2009
July 2009
June 2009
Syndication
Entries RSS
Comments
RSS
Footballers Convention is powered by
Wordpress .
Theme designed by
Rahul Sarees .