Hyakumonogatari Kaidankai
| F. Wesley Schneider
F. Wesley Schneider
Writer, Editor, Game Designer, Energumen
Search
Main menu
Skip to primary content
Skip to secondary content
Home
Blog
About
Published Works
Interviews & Media
Erratic Episodes
Links
Contact
Post navigation
←
Previous
Next
→
Hyakumonogatari Kaidankai
Posted on
September 1, 2012
by
admin
Meaning “ A Gathering of One Hundred Supernatural Tales ,” this centuries-old parlor game combines the formality of Japanese tradition with the moodiness of telling ghost stories around the campfire and throws in a dash of
Bloody Mary
in for good measure. The intent is to tell 100 ghost stories, each story corresponding to one of 100 candles or blue paper andon lanterns that are blown out one by one, gradually casting the room into darkness by degrees. When the last story is told and the final light is snuffed from the only remaining lit lantern a ghost called an
aoandon
appears.
Neat tradition, where’s the idea in this though?
It is the idea. Do it! We are.I’ve already gone into most of the specifics over on my
Erratic Episodes
site – since this is sort of storytelling/gaming related – but the gist of the idea is that once we have 5 consecutive days of rain, truly marking the end of the Pacific Northwest Summer, I’m slipping away for a weekend evening with some of the best storytellers I know to see if we can tell 100 impromptu stories and maybe summon up a ghost. I even imported an authentic andon lantern just for the event. I admit I imagine shades of the Shellys at Villa Diodati in this, but even if it’s not a inspirational as all that, I expect it to be a memorable night. I’ll be sure to post more about how this goes on here, but if you’ve got a few creative friends and want to put a novel spin on the old tradition of telling horror stories around the campfire, host your own Hyakumonogatari Kaidankai. If you do, totally let me know how it goes – if you make it through.
Share this: More
This entry was posted in
Steal this Idea!
by
admin . Bookmark the
permalink .
Leave a Reply
Cancel reply
You must be
logged in
to post a comment.
Subscribe to Blog via Email
Enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Wes on Facebook
Wes on Twitter My Tweets
&nbsp© F. Wesley Schneider & wesschneider.com, 2012-2013.
Send to Email Address
Your Name
Your Email Address
Cancel
Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.