Lady Lazarus: dying is an art | Musings on the macabre | Page 4
Lady Lazarus: dying is an art
Skip to content
Home
Artist’s CV
Domestikia
Dollhouse
Gravid
My Alphabet
St. Ursula
←
Older posts
Newer posts
→
December 3, 2014 · 10:53 am
Now you know your ABCs…
My illustrated alphabet book for adults, aptly titled
My Alphabet of Anxieties & Desires , is available in soft cover and eBook format. Buy it for yourself or send it to someone you love (or want to) for Christmas.
http://blur.by/12n9r1u .
Also available from the Apple store:  https://itunes.apple.com/ca/book/id582540445
Rate this:
Leave a comment
Filed under
Art musings and other great profundities
Tagged as
Alphabet ,
artist bookwork ,
books ,
Canadian art ,
contemporary art ,
Drawing ,
erotic ,
Jennifer Linton
November 1, 2014 · 2:43 pm
Happy Hallowe’en 2014!
Happy Hallowe’en, gentle readers! And now for something
completely  Gothic.
Annabel Lee
BY EDGAR ALLAN POE
It was many and many a year ago,
In a kingdom by the sea,
That a maiden there lived whom you may know
By the name of Annabel Lee;
And this maiden she lived with no other thought
Than to love and be loved by me.
I was a child and she was a child,
In this kingdom by the sea,
But we loved with a love that was more than love—
I and my Annabel Lee—
With a love that the wingèd seraphs of Heaven
Coveted her and me.
And this was the reason that, long ago,
In this kingdom by the sea,
A wind blew out of a cloud, chilling
My beautiful Annabel Lee;
So that her highborn kinsmen came
And bore her away from me,
To shut her up in a sepulchre
In this kingdom by the sea.
The angels, not half so happy in Heaven,
Went envying her and me—
Yes!—that was the reason (as all men know,
In this kingdom by the sea)
That the wind came out of the cloud by night,
Chilling and killing my Annabel Lee.
But our love it was stronger by far than the love
Of those who were older than we—
Of many far wiser than we—
And neither the angels in Heaven above
Nor the demons down under the sea
Can ever dissever my soul from the soul
Of the beautiful Annabel Lee;
For the moon never beams, without bringing me dreams
Of the beautiful Annabel Lee;
And the stars never rise, but I feel the bright eyes
Of the beautiful Annabel Lee;
And so, all the night-tide, I lie down by the side
Of my darling—my darling—my life and my bride,
In her sepulchre there by the sea—
In her tomb by the sounding sea.
Rate this:
Leave a comment
Filed under
Art musings and other great profundities
October 30, 2014 · 9:31 am
Hallowe’en Night divination game.
This is a repost from OCTOBER 28, 2011.
Halloween is one of the oldest holidays still celebrated in modern times, and can be traced back to the Druids, a Celtic culture in Ireland, Britain and Northern Europe. Its roots lay in the feast of Samhain (pronounced SA-WIN), which was annually held on October 31st to honor the dead. Much like Christmas, the pagan traditions of Samhain were later co-opted by the Christian church and replaced by All Saints Day (Nov. 1) as a means to align the Christian feast with the already well-established pagan festival. According to Wikipedia, “The word
Halloween
is first attested in the 16th century and represents a Scottish variant of the fuller
All-Hallows-Even
(“evening”), that is, the night before
All Hallows Day .” Hence, we have the modern day Hallowe’en.
In keeping with its pagan origins, a belief arose that during Halloween the barrier between the realms of the living and the dead are at their most permeable, allowing for dead spirits to enter our world. A corollary of this belief is the traditional Scottish practice of Halloween-night divination. Though little known these days, the practice of various forms of “divination games” during Halloween was wildly popular in the late 19th-century and early 20th-century, a popularity commemorated in the divination-themed Halloween greeting cards above. One of the most popular of these was a form of scrying or
mirror divination , in which an unmarried woman was instructed to sit before a mirror in a darkened room on Halloween night. Purportedly, if she gazed long enough, she would see a vision of her future husband reflected in the mirror. If, however, she was to die unmarried, a skull would appear instead — which just seems incredibly creepy. A common thread exists between this Halloween practice and the
Bloody Mary
game, in which the participants dare each other to look into a mirror and repeat Mary’s name three times, thus possibly summoning the folkloric witch.
Rate this:
Leave a comment
Filed under
Art musings and other great profundities ,
Gothic
Tagged as
Bloody Mary ,
divination ,
Halloween ,
Samhain ,
scrying
October 22, 2014 · 4:51 pm
VAEFF 2014 in New York, recap.
At the beginning of October, I travelled to New York City to participate in the 2014 instalment of the Video Art & Experimental Film Festival.  My short animated film
Domestikia, Chapter 3: La Petite Mort
screened both Thursday and Friday nights, with a filmmaker Q&A following the Friday screening. Above are a few photos from the event, and below a snippet from the festival review at the Videoart.net blog:
Over three nights in early October, as the New York fall seemed to be taking its grip on the city, filmmakers, artists and film enthusiasts huddled outside Tribeca Cinemas and engaged in animated exchanges and heated discussions – excitedly picking apart the films of this year’s Video Art and Experimental Film Festival. Now in its fourth year, the festival once again presented a challenging and arresting program of short films, showcasing the diversity of moving image work being created today.
[clip]
This process of breaking down unproductive delineations and creating a vocabulary with which to grapple with the question of what can be understood as video art was present throughout the festival, offering the entire program a palpable vigour, though it was perhaps Thursday night’s screening, playfully dubbed
‘Beauty, Sex, Shame’
which most captured the exciting landscape of video art today. Beginning with Rino Stefano Tagliafierro’s
BEAUTY
– an elegiac reimagining of classic paintings which delights in the effervescence of beauty, luring us in with its promises before revealing its inherent ephemerality and inevitable decay – the program examined the seductive nature of images, throwing light on the perpetually fraught relationship between sex and death. In its masterful re-appropriation of classic painting, Tagliafierro’s film set the tone for much of the program, as a common thread throughout the program was a kind of filmmaking which utilizes cinematic and art historical references with unabashed candor, repurposing familiar footage and well worn tropes to create refreshingly current work. With its knowing nods to the cinema of the French New Wave, Canada’s wonderfully tongue-in-cheek film,
Crème Caramel , creates a highly stylized visual language allowing it to reference classic cinema, while simultaneously reconfiguring the often narrow view of sexuality and femininity which exists in these films. Similarly, Jennifer Linton’s
Domestikia, Chapter 3: La Petite Mort
– a surreal exploration of female sexuality – draws on a tradition of illustrated Japanese pornography often referred to as tentacle erotica, imbuing the film with an awareness of the inescapable darkness and perversion hiding beneath the glossy kind of beauty we are conditioned to consume.
[clip]
You can find the full review
here , and more photographs from the festival
here.  Oh, and in case you don’t know already, I’m the dark princess dressed all in black.
Rate this:
Leave a comment
Filed under
Animation ,
Art musings and other great profundities
Tagged as
animation ,
Canadian animation ,
experimental film ,
independent film ,
video art ,
Video Art & Experimental Film Festival ,
video blogs
October 16, 2014 · 5:45 pm
Lady Lazarus’s 2014 Halloween List: Scary Movie Moments.
Hello, my Darklings! It may be a relatively balmy afternoon in Toronto, but the warm weather’s not fooling Lady Lazarus.  It is undeniably mid-October, which means it’s that time of year to carefully craft a horror-themed list in anticipation/celebration of Hallowe’en.  While the tagline for this blog “musings on the macabre” indicates my year-round fascination with all things spooky and disturbing, come Hallowe’en, this fascination finds full expression in mainstream culture. In short, I can hoist my horror-freak flag up high.
This year, I decided to go with the theme of “scary movie/TV moments”, meaning those scenes that, for me, contain particularly potent images of horror. As always, this is a highly subjective list. Your list will likely vary. One curious thing I noticed when crafting my list is that all the scenes share a common element. Read on to discover what that would be.
1. Hospital hallway scene from
Exorcist III: Legion
(1990). William Peter Blatty’s novel
Legion
is the true sequel to
The Exorcist , and not that ridiculous, let’s-cash-in-on-the-original
Exorcist II  that starred a somehow “re-possessed” Regan (with Linda Blair reprising her role) and a bunch of locusts. When I heard that Blatty himself would direct
Exorcist III: Legion , I was actually hopeful that the movie wouldn’t suck. Well, it did. Except for this scene, which is a classic jump-scare moment, expertly done. I don’t want to spoil the moment if you haven’t seen this film, but I would like to point out how well the slow pacing, the static camera, and the everyday banality of the moments leading up to the jump-scare serve to underscore the horror.
2. There are two things that creep me out about the character of Bob from David Lynch’s cult TV series
Twin Peaks . Firstly, it’s his appearance. He’s a bedraggled, denim-on-denim denizen of a very seedy underworld, with wild eyes and a maniacal grin. His long hair, toothy grin and feral nature casts him in the role of the Big Bad Wolf, only the world that he emerges from is not one of fairytales, but of nightmares. The second, even more chilling aspect of Bob is how he always
just appears , seemingly out of nowhere. One moment, there you are sitting on the broadloom of your parent’s tastefully decorated, circa 1980’s suburban home — complete with floral arrangements and throw-cushions — and suddenly BAM! There he is, climbing over your Mom’s couch with that sinister grin, making his way directly towards
you . Whatever his plans, you know it’s not going to end well. Much like the psycho-killer in the scene above from
Exorcist III: Legion , it’s Bob’s sudden, inexplicable appearances that always freaked me out.
3. I first saw
Ju-On
(2002, dir.Takashi Shimizu) at the Toronto International Film Festival back in 2003, and it still remains one of my favourite J-horrors of that era. While I have to admit that the latter half of the film is mainly comprised of a relentless succession of jump-scares,  Ju-On  still offers up some great visuals, such as the image of the ghost-woman Kayako slooooooowly crawling down the stairs towards the horrified heroine Rika. The image that has always stuck with me, however, is the one depicted above — with Kayako suddenly materializing underneath the bed covers, and directly on top of her victim. Can you imagine lifting your bed sheets to see that face staring up at you? NO.
4. Yes, ok,
The Exorcist
(1973, dir.William Friedkin). I know it’s a given on any horror movie-related list, but there’s a really good reason why that would be. It’s just
that
good. I’ve already mentioned in a past post the
freaky demon-face
that haunted all our childhood dreams — if you happen to be of a similar vintage to me — but the image I’d like to address is the one with Father Karras’s mother suddenly appearing on Regan’s bed during her prolonged exorcism. Other than the fact that the scene cuts to this image so abruptly, eliciting a jump-scare moment out of the audience, it’s the sad, questioning expression on her face that I find so unnerving. “Why, Demi? Why?”
Indeed.
So, that’s it. Have a safe and happy Hallowe’en, kids. I hope to, as long as nothing sinister suddenly appears around me.
Rate this:
Leave a comment
Filed under
Horror Films 101
Tagged as
Halloween ,
Happy Halloween ,
horror ,
horror film ,
J-horror ,
Ju-On ,
The Exorcist ,
Twin Peaks
September 12, 2014 · 1:25 pm
The Toronto Raccoon.
Work-in-progress photo from my animation project “Toronto Alice” (ETA Spring 2015).
Any native of Toronto is well acquainted with our large and active population of urban raccoons. What many Torontonians may not know, however, is that Toronto is unique in Canada for its abundance of these intelligent — though often troublesome —
critters.
Unlike cities such as Montreal, Edmonton, and Ottawa, Toronto winters are milder and we typically don’t get buried by the kind of snow that makes it hard for raccoons to forage. The city’s network of ravines also connects neighbourhoods, MacDonald says, which offers raccoons a safe place to retreat, if necessary. And unlike Vancouver (where, historically, there have been more condo buildings in the downtown), Toronto has residential neighbourhoods with leafy backyards, garages, and easy access to garbage. Urban raccoons have flourished here because of their ability to adapt to our environment, forage in our waste, and find shelter in easy-to-break-into older downtown homes.
— from
http://www.chfi.com/2013/06/13/why-toronto-has-so-many-raccoons/
While indigenous to North American wooded areas, urban raccoons only exist in large populations in the cities Washington, DC, Chicago, and Toronto (see
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Raccoon#Urban_raccoons ).
The gigantic raccoon pictured in the video still above hails from my upcoming animation project
Toronto Alice . This creature is loosely based on the raccoon/s who habitually take a large crap on my back porch [grimace].
Rate this:
Leave a comment
Filed under
Animation ,
Art musings and other great profundities
Tagged as
animation ,
Canadian animation ,
paper cutout animation ,
raccoons ,
Stop-motion animation ,
Toronto ,
Toronto Alice
August 15, 2014 · 3:13 pm
Update on “Toronto Alice” project.
Hello Gentle Readers. Hope you’re squeezing out every last bit of enjoyment from these last few weeks of summer. I’ve spent most my summer in my basement studio, working away on
Toronto Alice
— well, ok, I did go camping, too. I’m gearing up for the Fall semester at the schools at which I teach, so Alice will go on the back burner for a little while. ETA for completion is Spring 2015.
Thought I would share a few screen captures from the project thus far. Enjoy!
Rate this:
Leave a comment
Filed under
Animation ,
Art musings and other great profundities
←
Older posts
Newer posts
→
Follow Lady Lazarus: dying is an art on WordPress.com
Recent Posts
Lady Lazarus’s “Ero Guro” Board on Pinterest
Deviant Desires: Erotic Grotesque Nonsense, Part V: “In the Realm of the Senses”
The Astounding Thaumatrope
Deviant Desires: Erotic Grotesque Nonsense, Part IV: “Midori — The Girl in the Freak Show”
Tentacled Darling of the Underground.
Top Posts The art of Hannah Wilke: 'Feminist Narcissism' and the reclamation of the erotic body.
The Erotic-Grotesque Art of Toshio Saeki.
"Ero guro nansensu": the dark, disturbed grandchildren of Japan's era of decadence.
Jayne Mansfield: publicity whore, rumoured Satanist, Hollywood sex goddess.
The Great Mother vs. the Terrible Mother: the dual nature of the Jungian archetype.
Categories
Animation
(38)
Art musings and other great profundities
(89)
Ero Guro Nansensu
(12)
Gender & Horror Films
(15)
Gothic
(34)
Horror Films 101
(48)
Nostalgic for Sleaze – Exploitation cinema
(8)
Subversive Fairytales
(6)
The Disobedient Dollhouse – 2010 Master's thesis
(8)
Unusual Miniatures & Haunted Dollhouses
(5)
Search my blog
Search for:
Archives
October 2015  (2)
September 2015  (2)
August 2015  (3)
July 2015  (4)
June 2015  (2)
May 2015  (1)
April 2015  (1)
March 2015  (1)
February 2015  (2)
January 2015  (1)
December 2014  (3)
November 2014  (1)
October 2014  (3)
September 2014  (1)
August 2014  (2)
July 2014  (1)
June 2014  (3)
May 2014  (1)
March 2014  (3)
February 2014  (1)
January 2014  (2)
December 2013  (2)
November 2013  (3)
October 2013  (3)
September 2013  (1)
August 2013  (2)
July 2013  (1)
June 2013  (2)
May 2013  (2)
April 2013  (1)
March 2013  (1)
February 2013  (2)
January 2013  (2)
December 2012  (3)
November 2012  (2)
October 2012  (3)
September 2012  (1)
August 2012  (2)
July 2012  (5)
June 2012  (1)
May 2012  (1)
April 2012  (2)
March 2012  (2)
February 2012  (3)
January 2012  (3)
December 2011  (3)
November 2011  (2)
October 2011  (3)
September 2011  (2)
August 2011  (2)
July 2011  (3)
June 2011  (3)
May 2011  (3)
April 2011  (2)
March 2011  (3)
February 2011  (2)
January 2011  (4)
December 2010  (4)
November 2010  (3)
October 2010  (2)
September 2010  (3)
August 2010  (3)
July 2010  (7)
June 2010  (6)
December 2007  (1)
October 2006  (1)
Alice in Wonderland
animation
Black Christmas
body horror
Canadian animation
Canadian art
Canadian film
cannibal films
contemporary art
diorama
dollhouses
Domestic Gothic
Drawing
Edgar Allan Poe
edogawa rampo
ero guro
Ero guro nansensu
erotic
erotica
exploitation film
fairytales
Fantasy
feminism
gender
ghost stories
gore
gorehound
Goth
Gothic
gothic literature
grotesque
Halloween
haunted dollhouse
Haute Tension
horror
horror film
installation art
J-horror
Japan
Japanese art
japanese film
Jennifer Linton
Lady Lazarus
lesbianism
Lithography
macabre
Max Ernst
motherhood
New French Extremity
paper cutout animation
paper cutouts
paper diorama
photography
pornography
Satanism
serial killer
slasher
splatter
Stop-motion animation
Suehiro Maruo
supernatural horror
Surrealism
tentacle erotica
The Disobedient Dollhouse
The Exorcist
the uncanny
Toronto
Toronto Alice
vampire
Victorian dollhouses
video art
Visual Art
Walerian Borowczyk
werewolves
Zombies
Email Subscription
Enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Join 821 other followers
Jennifer Linton Promote your Page too
Watch my videos!
Patreon
With your financial support, myself & my team can create independent stop-motion animated films using the beautiful technique of paper cutouts. Go to
my Patreon page
to help!
RSS Feed RSS - Posts
Follow me on Pinterest
Blogroll
Contemporary Japanese Literature blog
Deadly Movies blog
Dr. Sketchy's Anti-Art School
Fascination with Fear – horror film blog
Gloomth blog – custom Goth clothing
Haute Macabre – Goth couture & culture
House of Pomegranates
Morbid Anatomy blog
Not Artomatic blog
Lady Lazarus: dying is an art
· Musings on the macabre
Blog at WordPress.com .
·
The Pilcrow Theme .
Lady Lazarus: dying is an art
Blog at WordPress.com .
The Pilcrow Theme .
Follow
Follow “Lady Lazarus: dying is an art”
Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.
Join 821 other followers
Build a website with WordPress.com
Add your thoughts here... (optional)
Post to
Cancel