Imagens da Arte: 2010-08-08
skip to main
|
skip to sidebar
Outras Cores
Início
segunda-feira, 9 de agosto de 2010
História da Arte em Imagens - A IDADE MODERNA
(1500-2000 DC)
Parte 1: Donato Bramante
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Donato Bramante
Donato Bramante
Birth name
Donato di Pascuccio d'Antonio
Born
1444 Fermignano ,
Italy
Died
April 11, 1514
(Aged about 70) Rome
Nationality
Italian
Field
Architecture ,
Painting
Movement
High Renaissance
Works
San Pietro in Montorio Christ at the column
Donato Bramante
(1444 – March 11, 1514) was an Italian
architect , who introduced the Early Renaissance style to Milan and the
High Renaissance
style to
Rome , where his most famous design was
St. Peter's Basilica .
Contents
1
Urbino and Milan 2
Career in Rome 3
Principal architectural works 4
References 5
External links
Urbino and Milan
Bramante was born in Monte Asdrualdo (now
Fermignano ), under name Donato di Pascuccio d'Antonio, near
Urbino : here, in 1467
Luciano Laurana
was adding to the
Palazzo Ducale
an arcaded courtyard and other features that seemed to have the true ring of a reborn antiquity to
Federico da Montefeltro 's ducal palace.
Bramante's architecture has eclipsed his painting skills: he knew the painters
Melozzo da Forlì
and
Piero della Francesca
well, who were interested in the rules of
perspective
and illusionistic features in
Mantegna 's painting. Around 1474, Bramante moved to
Milan , a city with a deep Gothic architectural tradition, and built several churches in the new Antique style. The Duke,
Ludovico Sforza , made him virtually his court architect, beginning in 1476, with commissions that culminated in the famous
trompe-l'oeil
choir of the church of
Santa Maria presso San Satiro
(1482–1486). Space was limited, and Bramante made a theatrical
apse
in
bas-relief , combining the painterly arts of perspective with Roman details. There is an octagonal sacristy, surmounted by a
dome .
In Milan, Bramante also built the tribune of
Santa Maria delle Grazie
(1492–99); other early works include the
cloisters
of Sant'Ambrogio,
Milan
(1497–1498), and some other constructions in
Pavia
and possibly
Legnano .
However, in 1499, with his Sforza patron driven from Milan by an
invading French army, Bramante made his way to Rome, where he was
already known to the powerful
Cardinal Riario .
Career in Rome
In Rome, he was soon recognized by
Cardinal Della Rovere , shortly to become
Pope Julius II .
For Ferdinand of Aragon and Isabella of Castile or possibly Julius II,
Bramante designed one of the most harmonious buildings of the
Renaissance : the
Tempietto
(1510) of
San Pietro in Montorio
on the
Janiculum .
Despite its small scale, the construction has all the rigorous
proportions and symmetry of Classical structures, surrounded by slender
Doric columns, surmounted by a dome. According to a later engraving by
Sebastiano Serlio ,
Bramante planned to set it within a colonnaded courtyard. In November
1503, Julius engaged Bramante for the construction of the grandest
European architectural commission of the 16th century, the complete
rebuilding of
St Peter's Basilica . The cornerstone of the first of the great piers of the
crossing
was laid with ceremony on April 17, 1506. Very few drawings by Bramante
survive, though some by his assistants do, demonstrating the extent of
the team which had been assembled. Bramante's vision for St Peter's, a
centralized Greek cross plan that symbolized sublime perfection for him
and his generation (compare
Santa Maria della Consolazione, Todi , influenced by Bramante's work) was fundamentally altered by the extension of the
nave
after his death in 1514. Bramante's plan envisaged four great chapels filling the corner spaces between the equal
transepts ,
each one capped with a smaller dome surrounding the great dome over the
crossing. So Bramante's original plan was very much more
Romano-Byzantine in its forms than the basilica that was actually built.
(See
St Peter's Basilica
for further details.)
Wikimedia Commons has media related to:
Donato Bramante
Bramante also worked on several other commissions. Among his earliest
works in Rome, before the Basilica's construction was under way, is the
cloister (1500–1504) of
Santa Maria della Pace
near
Piazza Navona . The handsome proportions give an air of great simplicity.
Plans for St Peter's Basilica
A draft for St Peter's superimposed over a plan of the ancient basilica Principal architectural works
Santa Maria presso San Satiro
Milan, ca. 1482–1486 Santa Maria delle Grazie
(cloister and apse); Milan, 1492–1498 Palazzo Caprini
(also called: ' House of Raphael '), Rome, started in 1512 (non-extant) San Pietro in Montorio
(also called the Tempietto); Rome, 1502 Santa Maria della Pace
(cloister); Rome, 1504 St. Peter's Basilica , Rome, Design 1503, ground breaking, 1506 Cortile del Belvedere , Vatican city, rome, 1506.
References
Further Reading
ACKERMAN, James. The Cortile del Belvedere. (London, 1964).
BRUSCHI, Arnaldo. Bramante (London, 1977).
EVANS, Robin. The Projective Cast: Architecture and Its Three Geometries (Cambridge, MA, 1995).
FROMMEL, Christoph Luitpold. Die Romische Palastbau der Hochrenaissance (Tubingen, 1973).
FROMMEL, Christoph Luitpold. The Architecture of the Italian Renaissance (lLondon, 2007).
LOTZ, Wolfgang. Architecture in Italy 1500-1600 (London, 1996).
HEYDENREICH, Ludwig H. Architecture in Italy 1400-1500 (London, 1996)
THOENES, Christof. Sostegno e Adornamento (Milan, 1998).
[1]
[2]
External links
" Donato Bramante " in the 1913
Catholic Encyclopedia .
Donato Bramante Source
Information, Pictures & Documentaries about Donato. Pietro Perugino
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Pietro Perugino
Self-portrait, 1497–1500
Birth name
Pietro Vannucci
Born
1446 Città della Pieve ,
Umbria ,
Italy
Died
1524 (aged 77–78) Fontignano ,
Umbria ,
Italy
Nationality
Italian
Field
Painting ,
Fresco
Training
Andrea del Verrocchio
Movement
Italian Renaissance
Works
The Delivery of the Keys
Pietro Perugino
(1446–1524), born
Pietro Vannucci , was the leading
painter
of the Umbrian school, who developed some of the qualities that found classic expression in the
High Renaissance .
Raphael
was his most famous pupil.
Contents
1
Biography
1.1
Early years 1.2
In Rome
2
Major works 3
Sources
Biography
Early years
He was born
Pietro Vannucci
in
Città della Pieve ,
Umbria , the son of Cristoforo Vannucci; his nickname characterizes him as from
Perugia , the chief city of Umbria.
Pietro painted at
Arezzo , thence moved to
Florence .
The date of this first Florentine sojourn is by no means settled; some
make it as early as 1470, others push the date to 1479. According to
Vasari , he apprenticed in the
atelier
of
Andrea del Verrocchio
alongside
Leonardo da Vinci . He may have learned perspective from
Piero della Francesca . In 1472 he must have completed his apprenticeship, for he was enrolled as a painter in the confraternity of St Luke.
Perugino was one of the earliest Italian practitioners of
oil painting . Some of his early works were extensive
frescoes
for the convent of the
Ingesati
fathers, destroyed during the
siege of Florence , 1537; he produced for them also many cartoons, which they executed with brilliant effect in
stained glass . A good specimen of his early style in
tempera
is the
tondo
(circular picture) in the
Musée du Louvre
of the
Virgin and Child Enthroned between Saints .
In Rome
Perugino returned from Florence to Perugia, where his Florentine training showed in the
Adoration of the Magi
for the church of
Santa Maria dei Servi
(ca 1476). In about 1480, he was called to Rome to fresco panels for the
Sistine Chapel
walls by
Sixtus IV
including
Moses
and
Zipporah
(often attributed to
Luca Signorelli ), the
Baptism of Christ , and
The Delivery of the Keys
( illustration, right ).
Pinturicchio
accompanied Perugino to Rome, and was made his partner, receiving a
third of the profits. He may have done some of the Zipporah subject. The
Sistine frescoes were the major high Renaissance commission in Rome.
The altar wall was also painted with the
Assumption , the
Nativity , and
Moses
in the
Bulrushes . These works were later ruthlessly destroyed to make a space for
Michelangelo 's
Last Judgement ,
The Delivery of the Keys
fresco , 1481–2,
Sistine Chapel , Rome
Perugino, aged forty, left Rome after completion of the Sistine
Chapel work in 1486, and by autumn was in Florence. Here he figured by
no means advantageously in a criminal court case. In July 1487 he and
another Perugian painter named
Aulista di Angelo
were convicted, on their own confession, of having in December waylaid with
staves
someone (the name does not appear) in the streets near Pietro Maggiore. Perugino merely intended
assault
and
battery , but Aulista meant to commit
murder . The more illustrious culprit, guilty of the lesser offence, was
fined
ten gold
florins , and the other was exiled for life.
Between 1486 and 1499 Perugino worked chiefly in Florence, making one
journey to Rome and several to Perugia, where he may have maintained a
second studio. He had an established studio in Florence, and received a
great number of commissions. His
Pietà
(1495) in the
Palazzo Pitti
is an uncharacteristically stark work that avoids Perugino's sometimes too easy sentimental piety.
In 1499 the guild of the
cambio
(money-changers or bankers) of Perugia asked him to decorate their audience-hall
(sala dell'udienza ).
The humanist Francesco Maturanzio acted as his consultant. This
extensive scheme, which may have been finished by 1500, comprised the
painting of the vault with the seven planets and the signs of the
zodiac
(Perugino being responsible for the designs and his pupils most
probably for the execution) and the representation on the walls of two
sacred subjects: the Nativity and
Transfiguration ; in addition, the Eternal Father, the
cardinal virtues
of Justice, Prudence, Temperance and Fortitude,
Cato
as the emblem of wisdom, and numerous life-sized figures of classic worthies, prophets and
sibyls
figured in the program. On the mid-pilaster of the hall Perugino placed his own portrait in bust-form. It is probable that
Raphael ,
who in boyhood, towards 1496, had been placed by his uncles under the
tuition of Perugino, bore a hand in the work of the vaulting.
Perugino was made one of the
priors
of Perugia in 1501. On one occasion
Michelangelo
told Perugino to his face that he was a bungler in art ( goffo nell arte ):
Vannucci brought an action for defamation of character, unsuccessfully.
Put on his mettle by this mortifying transaction, he produced the
masterpiece of the
Madonna and Saints
for the
Certosa of Pavia , now disassembled and scattered among museums: the only portion in the Certosa is
God the Father with cherubim . An
Annunciation
has disappeared; three panels,
the Virgin adoring the infant Christ, St. Michael and St. Raphael with Tobias
are among the treasures of the
National Gallery, London .
This was succeeded in 1505 by an Assumption, in the Cappella dei
Rabatta, in the church of the Servi in Florence. The painting may have
been executed chiefly by a pupil, and was at any rate a failure: it was
much decried; Perugino lost his students; and towards 1506 he once more
and finally abandoned Florence, going to Perugia, and thence in a year
or two to Rome.
Pope Julius II
had summoned Perugino to paint the Stanza of the
Incendio del Borgo
in the
Vatican City ; but he soon preferred a younger competitor,
Raphael , who had been trained by Perugino; and Vannucci, after painting the ceiling with figures of
God the Father
in different glories, in five medallion-subjects, retired from
Rome
to Perugia from 1512. Among his latest works, many of which decline
into repetitious studio routine, one of the best is the extensive
altarpiece (painted between 1512 and 1517) of the church of San Agostino
in Perugia, also now dispersed.
Perugino's last
frescoes
were painted for the church of the Madonna delle Lacrime in
Trevi
(1521, signed and dated), the monastery of Sant'Agnese in Perugia, and
in 1522 for the church of Castello di Fortignano. Both series have
disappeared from their places, the second being now in the
Victoria and Albert Museum . He was still at
Fontignano
in 1524 when he died of
the plague . Like other plague victims, he was hastily buried in an unconsecrated field, the precise spot now unknown.
Vasari
is our chief, but not sole, authority for saying Perugino had very
little religion, and openly doubted the soul's immortality. It is
difficult to reconcile this discrepancy, and certainly not a little
difficult also to suppose that Vasari was totally mistaken in his
assertion; he was born twenty years before Perugino's death, and must
have talked with scores of people to whom the Umbrian painter had been
well known. We have to remark that Perugino in 1494 painted his own
portrait ( illustration, upper right ), now in the
Uffizi Gallery , and into this he introduced a scroll lettered
Timete Deum .
That an open disbeliever should inscribe himself with Timete Deum seems
odd. The portrait in question shows a plump face, with small dark eyes,
a short but well-cut nose, and sensuous lips; the neck is thick, the
hair bushy and frizzled, and the general air imposing. The later
portrait in the Cambio of Perugia shows the same face with traces of
added years. Perugino died possessed of considerable property, leaving
three sons.
Gonfalone with Pietà , c. 1472.
In 1495 he signed and dated a
Deposition
for the Florentine convent of Santa Chiara ( Palazzo Pitti ). Towards 1496 he frescoed a Crucifixion, commissioned in 1493 for
Maria Maddalena de' Pazzi , Florence (the
Pazzi Crucifixion ). The attribution to him of the picture of the marriage of Joseph and the Virgin Mary (the
Sposalizio ) now in the museum of
Caen , which indisputably served as the original, to a great extent, of the still more famous
Sposalizio
painted by Raphael in 1504 ( Accademia di Brera , Milan), is now questioned, and it is assigned to
Lo Spagna . A vastly finer work of Perugino's was the
polyptych
of the
Ascension of Christ
painted ca 1496–98 for the church of
S. Pietro of Perugia , (Municipal Museum,
Lyon ); the other portions of the same altarpiece are dispersed in other galleries.
In the chapel of the Disciplinati of Città della Pieve is an
Adoration of the Magi ,
a square of 6.5 m containing about thirty life-sized figures; this was
executed, with scarcely credible celerity, from the 1st to 25 March (or
thereabouts) in 1505, and must no doubt be in great part the work of
Vannucci's pupils. In 1507, when the master's work had for years been in
a course of decline and his performances were generally weak, he
produced. nevertheless, one of his best; pictures — the
Virgin between
Saint Jerome
and
Saint Francis ,
how in the Palazzo Penna. In the church of S. Onofrio in Florence is a
much lauded and much debated fresco of the Last Supper, a careful and
blandly correct but uninspired work; it has been ascribed to Perugino by
some connoisseurs, by others to
Raphael ; it may more probably be by some different pupil of the Umbrian master.
Among his pupils were Raphael, upon whose early work Perugino's influence is most noticeable, and
Giovanni di Pietro
(lo Spagna).
Major works
Wikimedia Commons has media related to:
Pietro Perugino
St. Sebastian
(c. 1490–1500)
— Panel, 176 × 116 cm,
Louvre ,
Paris St. Sebastian
(after 1490)
— Oil on wood, 110 × 62 cm,
Galleria Borghese ,
Rome The Virgin appearing to St. Bernard
(c. 1490-1494)
— Oil on wood, 173 × 170 cm,
Alte Pinakothek ,
Munich St. Sebastian
(1493–1494)
— Oil and tempera on panel, 53.8 × 39.5 cm,
The Hermitage ,
St. Petersburg Marriage of the Virgin
(1500–1504)
— Oil on wood, 234 × 185,
Musée des Beaux-Arts ,
Caen St. Sebastian Bound to a Column
(c. 1500–1510)
— Oil on canvas, 181 × 115 cm,
São Paulo Museum of Art ,
São Paulo ,
Brazil The Delivery of the Keys
(1481–1482)
— Fresco, 335 × 600 cm,
Sistine Chapel ,
Vatican City Crucifixion
(the
Galitzin
triptych, 1480s)
— painted for San Domenico at
San Gimignano ,
National Gallery, Washington Combat of Love and Chastity
(1503)
— Tempera on canvas, 160 x 191 cm, painted for
Isabella d'Este studiolo ,
Louvre ,
Paris The Nativity: the Virgin, St Joseph and the Shepherds adoring the Infant Christ
(ca. 1522)
— Fresco transferred to canvas from S. Maria Assunta, at Fontignano, 254 x 594 cm,
Victoria & Albert Museum ,
London
Sources
This article incorporates text from the
Encyclopædia Britannica , Eleventh Edition , a publication now in the
public domain . Leonardo da Vinci
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Leonardo da Vinci
Self-portrait in red chalk , circa 1512 to 1515. [ nb 1 ]
Royal Library of Turin
Birth name
Leonardo di Ser Piero
Born
April 15, 1452 ( 1452-04-15 ) Vinci ,
Florence , in present-day
Italy
Died
May 2, 1519 (aged 67) Amboise ,
Touraine
(in present-day
Indre-et-Loire ,
France )
Nationality
Italian
Field
Many and diverse fields of
arts
and
sciences
Movement
High Renaissance
Works
Mona Lisa ,
The Last Supper ,
The Vitruvian Man
Leonardo di ser Piero da Vinci
(
pronunciation
( help · info ) ) (April 15, 1452 – May 2, 1519) was an
Italian
polymath :
painter ,
sculptor ,
architect ,
musician ,
scientist ,
mathematician ,
engineer ,
inventor ,
anatomist ,
geologist ,
cartographer ,
botanist
and
writer . Leonardo has often been described as the
archetype
of the Renaissance man, a man whose unquenchable curiosity was equaled only by his powers of invention. [ 1 ]
He is widely considered to be one of the
greatest
painters
of all time and perhaps the most diversely talented person ever to have lived. [ 2 ]
According to art historian
Helen Gardner ,
the scope and depth of his interests were without precedent and "his
mind and personality seem to us superhuman, the man himself mysterious
and remote". [ 1 ]
Marco Rosci points out, however, that while there is much speculation
about Leonardo, his vision of the world is essentially logical rather
than mysterious, and that the empirical methods he employed were unusual
for his time. [ 3 ]
Born the illegitimate son of a
notary , Piero da Vinci, and a peasant woman, Caterina, at
Vinci
in the region of
Florence , Leonardo was educated in the studio of the renowned Florentine painter,
Verrocchio . Much of his earlier working life was spent in the service of
Ludovico il Moro
in
Milan . He later worked in
Rome ,
Bologna
and
Venice
and spent his last years in France, at the home awarded him by
Francis I .
Leonardo was and is renowned [ 2 ]
primarily as a painter. Two of his works, the
Mona Lisa
and
The Last Supper ,
are the most famous, most reproduced and most parodied portrait and
religious paintings of all time, respectively, their fame approached
only by
Michelangelo 's
Creation of Adam . [ 1 ]
Leonardo's drawing of the
Vitruvian Man
is also regarded as a
cultural icon , [ 4 ]
being reproduced on everything from the
euro
to text books to t-shirts. Perhaps fifteen of his paintings survive,
the small number due to his constant, and frequently disastrous,
experimentation with new techniques, and his chronic procrastination. [ nb 2 ]
Nevertheless, these few works, together with his notebooks, which
contain drawings, scientific diagrams, and his thoughts on the nature of
painting, compose a contribution to later generations of artists only
rivalled by that of his contemporary,
Michelangelo .
Leonardo is revered [ 2 ]
for his technological ingenuity. He conceptualised a
helicopter , a
tank , concentrated
solar power , a calculator, [ 5 ]
the
double hull
and outlined a rudimentary theory of
plate tectonics . Relatively few of his designs were constructed or were even feasible during his lifetime, [ nb 3 ]
but some of his smaller inventions, such as an automated
bobbin
winder and a machine for testing the
tensile strength
of wire, entered the world of manufacturing unheralded. [ nb 4 ]
As a scientist, he greatly advanced the state of knowledge in the fields of
anatomy ,
civil engineering ,
optics , and
hydrodynamics . [ 6 ]
Contents
1
Life
1.1
Childhood, 1452–1466 1.2
Verrocchio's workshop, 1466–1476 1.3
Professional life, 1476–1513 1.4
Old age, 1513–1519
2
Relationships and influences
2.1
Florence — Leonardo's artistic and social background 2.2
Personal life 2.3
Assistants and pupils
3
Painting
3.1
Early works 3.2
Paintings of the 1480s 3.3
Paintings of the 1490s 3.4
Paintings of the 1500s 3.5
Drawings
4
Leonardo as observer, scientist and inventor
4.1
Journals 4.2
Scientific studies 4.3
Anatomy 4.4
Engineering and inventions
5
Leonardo the legend 6
See also
6.1
About Leonardo 6.2
Related subjects
7
Footnotes 8
References 9
Bibliography 10
External links
Life
See also:
Leonardo da Vinci's personal life
Childhood, 1452–1466
Leonardo's childhood home in
Anchiano .
Leonardo's earliest known drawing, the Arno Valley, (1473) –
Uffizi
Leonardo was born on April 15, 1452, "at the third hour of the night" [ nb 5 ]
in the
Tuscan
hill town of
Vinci , in the lower valley of the
Arno River
in the territory of
Florence . [ 8 ]
He was the
illegitimate
son of the wealthy Messer Piero Fruosino di Antonio da Vinci, a Florentine
legal notary , and Caterina, a peasant. [ 7 ] [ 9 ] [ nb 6 ]
Leonardo had no
surname
in the modern sense, " da Vinci " simply meaning "of
Vinci ": his full birth name was "Lionardo di ser Piero da Vinci", meaning "Leonardo, (son) of (Mes)ser Piero from Vinci". [ 8 ]
Little is known about Leonardo's early life. He spent his first five years in the
hamlet
of
Anchiano
in the home of his mother, then from 1457 lived in the household of his
father, grandparents and uncle, Francesco, in the small town of Vinci.
His father had married a sixteen-year-old girl named Albiera, who loved
Leonardo but died young. [ 10 ]
Leonardo received an informal education in Latin, geometry and mathematics but did not show any particular signs of aptitude. [ citation needed ]
When Leonardo was sixteen his father married again, twenty-year-old
Francesca Lanfredini. It was not until his third and fourth marriages
that Ser Piero produced legitimate heirs. [ 11 ]
In later life, Leonardo only recorded two childhood incidents. One, which he regarded as an omen, was when a
kite
dropped from the sky and hovered over his cradle, its tail feathers brushing his face. [ 12 ]
The second occurred while exploring in the mountains. He discovered a
cave and was both terrified that some great monster might lurk there,
and driven by curiosity to find out what was inside. [ 10 ]
Leonardo's early life has been the subject of historical conjecture. [ 13 ]
Vasari ,
the 16th-century biographer of Renaissance painters tells of how a
local peasant made himself a round shield and requested that Ser Piero
have it painted for him. Leonardo responded with a painting of monster
spitting fire which was so terrifying that Ser Piero sold it to a
Florentine art dealer, who sold it to the Duke of
Milan .
Meanwhile, having made a profit, Ser Piero bought a shield decorated
with a heart pierced by an arrow, which he gave to the peasant. [ 14 ]
The Baptism of Christ
(1472–1475)— Uffizi , by Verrocchio and Leonardo
Verrocchio's workshop, 1466–1476
In 1466, at the age of fourteen, Leonardo was
apprenticed
to the artist Andrea di Cione, known as
Verrocchio
whose workshop was "one of the finest in Florence". [ 15 ]
Other famous painters apprenticed or associated with the workshop include
Domenico Ghirlandaio ,
Perugino ,
Botticelli , and
Lorenzo di Credi . [ 10 ] [ 16 ]
Leonardo would have been exposed to both theoretical training and a vast range of technical skills [ 17 ]
including drafting, chemistry, metallurgy, metal working, plaster
casting, leather working, mechanics and carpentry as well as the
artistic skills of drawing, painting, sculpting and modelling. [ 18 ] [ nb 7 ]
Much of the painted production of Verrocchio's workshop was done by
his employees. According to Vasari, Leonardo collaborated with
Verrocchio on his
Baptism of Christ , painting the young angel holding
Jesus 's robe in a manner that was so far superior to his master's that Verrocchio put down his brush and never painted again. [ 19 ]
This is probably an exaggeration. On close examination, the painting reveals much that has been painted or touched up over the
tempera
using the new technique of
oil paint ,
the landscape, the rocks that can be seen through the brown mountain
stream and much of the figure of Jesus bearing witness to the hand of
Leonardo. [ 20 ]
Leonardo himself may have been the model for two works by Verrocchio, including the bronze statue of
David
in the
Bargello , and the
Archangel Michael
in
Tobias and the Angel . [ 9 ]
By 1472, at the age of twenty, Leonardo qualified as a master in the
Guild of St Luke , the guild of artists and doctors of medicine, [ nb 8 ]
but even after his father set him up in his own workshop, his
attachment to Verrocchio was such that he continued to collaborate with
him. [ 10 ]
Leonardo's earliest known dated work is a drawing in pen and ink of the
Arno
valley, drawn on August 5, 1473. [ nb 9 ] [ 16 ]
Professional life, 1476–1513
The Adoration of the Magi , (1481)— Uffizi .
Florentine court records of 1476 show that Leonardo and three other young men were charged with
sodomy , and acquitted. [ 9 ] [ nb 10 ]
From that date until 1478 there is no record of his work or even of his whereabouts. [ 21 ]
In 1478 he left Verroccio's studio and was no longer resident at his
father's house. One writer, the "Anonimo" Gaddiano claims that in 1480
he was living with the Medici and working in the garden of the Piazza
San Marco in Florence. [ 9 ]
In January 1478 he received his first independent commission, to paint
an altarpiece in 1478 for the Chapel of St Bernard in the
Palazzo Vecchio
and
The Adoration of the Magi
in March 1481 for the Monks of San Donato a Scopeto. [ 22 ]
Neither important commission was completed, the second being interrupted when Leonardo went to Milan.
In 1482 Leonardo, who according to Vasari was a most talented musician, [ 23 ]
created a silver
lyre
in the shape of a horse's head.
Lorenzo de’ Medici
sent Leonardo, bearing the lyre as a gift, to Milan, to secure peace with
Ludovico il Moro ,
Duke of Milan . [ 24 ]
At this time Leonardo wrote an often-quoted letter to Ludovico,
describing the many marvellous and diverse things that he could achieve
in the field of engineering and informing the Lord that he could also
paint. [ 16 ] [ 25 ]
Leonardo continued work in Milan between 1482 and 1499. He was commissioned to paint the
Virgin of the Rocks
for the Confraternity of the Immaculate Conception, and
The Last Supper
for the monastery of
Santa Maria delle Grazie . [ 26 ]
While living in Milan between 1493 and 1495 Leonardo listed a woman
called Caterina among his dependents in his taxation documents. When she
died in 1495, the list of funeral expenditures suggests that she was
his mother. [ 27 ]
Leonardo worked on many different projects for Ludovico, including
the preparation of floats and pageants for special occasions, designs
for a dome for
Milan Cathedral
and a model for a huge
equestrian monument
to
Francesco Sforza , Ludovico's predecessor. Seventy tons of
bronze
were set aside for casting it. The monument remained unfinished for
several years, which was not unusual for Leonardo. In 1492 the clay
model of the horse was completed. It surpassed in size the only two
large equestrian statues of the Renaissance, Donatello's statue of
Gattemelata in
Padua
and Verrocchio's
Bartolomeo Colleoni
in Venice, and became known as the "Gran Cavallo". [ 16 ] [ nb 11 ]
Study of horse from Leonardo's journals – Royal Library,
Windsor Castle
Leonardo began making detailed plans for its casting, [ 16 ]
however, Michelangelo rudely implied that Leonardo was unable to cast it. [ 10 ]
In November 1494 Ludovico gave the bronze to be used for cannons to defend the city from invasion by
Charles VIII . [ 16 ]
At the start of the
Second Italian War
in 1499, the invading French troops used the life-size clay model for
the "Gran Cavallo" for target practice. With Ludovico Sforza overthrown,
Leonardo, with his assistant Salai and friend, the mathematician
Luca Pacioli , fled Milan for
Venice , [ 28 ]
where he was employed as a military architect and engineer, devising methods to defend the city from naval attack. [ 10 ]
On his return to Florence in 1500, he and his household were guests of the Servite monks at the monastery of
Santissima Annunziata
and were provided with a workshop where, according to Vasari, Leonardo created the cartoon of
The Virgin and Child with St. Anne and St. John the Baptist ,
a work that won such admiration that "men and women, young and old"
flocked to see it "as if they were attending a great festival". [ 29 ] [ nb 12 ]
In 1502 Leonardo entered the service of
Cesare Borgia , the son of
Pope Alexander VI , acting as a military architect and engineer and travelling throughout Italy with his patron. [ 28 ]
Leonardo created a
map
of Cesare Borgia’s
stronghold , a town plan of
Imola
in order to win his patronage. Maps were extremely rare at the time and
it would have seemed like a new concept; upon seeing it, Cesare hired
Leonardo as his chief
military engineer
and
architect . Later in the year, Leonardo produced another map for his patron, one of
Chiana Valley ,
Tuscany so as to give his patron a better overlay of the land and
greater strategic position. He created this map in conjunction with his
other project of constructing a
dam
from the
sea
to
Florence
in order to allow a supply of
water
to sustain the
canal
during all
seasons .
Leonardo da Vinci's very accurate map of Imola, created for Cesare Borgia.
Leonardo returned to Florence where he rejoined the Guild of St Luke
on October 18, 1503, and spent two years designing and painting a great
mural of
The Battle of Anghiari
for the Signoria, [ 28 ]
with Michelangelo designing its companion piece,
The Battle of Cascina . [ nb 13 ]
In Florence in 1504, he was part of a committee formed to relocate, against the artist's will, Michelangelo's statue of
David . [ 33 ]
In 1506 Leonardo returned to Milan. Many of his most prominent pupils
or followers in painting either knew or worked with him in Milan, [ 10 ]
including
Bernardino Luini ,
Giovanni Antonio Boltraffio
and
Marco D'Oggione . [ nb 14 ]
However, he did not stay in Milan for long because his father had died
in 1504, and in 1507 he was back in Florence trying to sort out problems
with his brothers over his father's estate. By 1508 Leonardo was back
in Milan, living in his own house in Porta Orientale in the parish of
Santa Babila. [ 34 ]
Old age, 1513–1519
Clos Lucé in France, where Leonardo died in 1519
From September 1513 to 1516, Leonardo spent much of his time living in the Belvedere in the Vatican in Rome, where
Raphael
and
Michelangelo
were both active at the time. [ 34 ]
In October 1515,
Francis I of France
recaptured Milan. [ 22 ]
On December 19, Leonardo was present at the meeting of Francis I and Pope Leo X, which took place in Bologna. [ 10 ] [ 35 ] [ 36 ]
It was for Francis that Leonardo was commissioned to make a mechanical
lion
which could walk forward, then open its chest to reveal a cluster of lilies. [ 37 ] [ nb 15 ]
In 1516, he entered François' service, being given the use of the manor house
Clos Lucé [ nb 16 ]
near the king's residence at the royal
Chateau Amboise . It was here that he spent the last three years of his life, accompanied by his friend and apprentice, Count
Francesco Melzi , supported by a pension totalling 10,000
scudi . [ 34 ]
Leonardo died at
Clos Lucé , on May 2, 1519.
Francis I
had become a close friend. Vasari records that the King held Leonardo's
head in his arms as he died, although this story, beloved by the French
and portrayed in romantic paintings by
Ingres ,
Ménageot
and other French artists, as well as by
Angelica Kauffmann , may be legend rather than fact. [ nb 17 ] [ 39 ]
Vasari also tells us that in his last days, Leonardo sent for a priest to make his confession and to receive the
Holy Sacrament . [ 40 ]
In accordance to his will, sixty beggars followed his casket. He was buried in the Chapel of Saint-Hubert in the
castle of Amboise .
Melzi was the principal heir and executor, receiving as well as money,
Leonardo's paintings, tools, library and personal effects. Leonardo also
remembered his other long-time pupil and companion, Salai and his
servant Battista di Vilussis, who each received half of Leonardo's
vineyards , his brothers who received land, and his serving woman who received a black cloak "of good stuff" with a fur edge. [ 41 ]
Some twenty years after Leonardo's death, Francis was reported by the goldsmith and sculptor
Benevenuto Cellini
as saying: "There had never been another man born in the world who knew
as much as Leonardo, not so much about painting, sculpture and
architecture, as that he was a very great philosopher." [ 42 ]
Relationships and influences
Ghiberti's
Gates of Paradise , (1425–1452) were a source of communal pride. Many artists assisted in their creation.
Florence — Leonardo's artistic and social background
Florence, at the time of Leonardo's youth was the centre of Christian
Humanist
thought and culture. [ 43 ]
Leonardo commenced his
apprenticeship
with Verrocchio in 1466, the year that Verrocchio's master, the great sculptor
Donatello , died. The painter
Uccello
whose early experiments with perspective were to influence the
development of landscape painting, was a very old man. The painters
Piero della Francesca
and
Fra Filippo Lippi , sculptor
Luca della Robbia , and architect and writer
Leon Battista Alberti
were in their sixties. The successful artists of the next generation were Leonardo's teacher Verrocchio,
Antonio Pollaiuolo
and the portrait sculptor,
Mino da Fiesole
whose lifelike busts give the most reliable likenesses of Lorenzo Medici's father Piero and uncle Giovanni. [ 44 ] [ 45 ] [ 46 ] [ 47 ]
Leonardo's youth was spent in a Florence that was ornamented by the works of these artists and by Donatello's contemporaries,
Masaccio
whose figurative
frescoes
were imbued with realism and emotion and
Ghiberti
whose
Gates of Paradise , gleaming with
gold leaf ,
displayed the art of combining complex figure compositions with
detailed architectural backgrounds. Piero della Francesca had made a
detailed study of perspective, [ 48 ]
and was the first painter to make a scientific study of light. These studies and
Alberti's
Treatise [ 49 ]
were to have a profound effect on younger artists and in particular on Leonardo's own observations and artworks. [ 44 ] [ 46 ] [ 47 ]
Massaccio's
depiction
of the naked and distraught
Adam and Eve
leaving the Garden of Eden created a powerfully expressive image of the human form, cast into three dimensions by the use of
light and shade
which was to be developed in the works of Leonardo in a way that was to
be influential in the course of painting. The Humanist influence of
Donatello's David can be seen in Leonardo's late paintings, particularly
John the Baptist . [ 44 ] [ 45 ]
Small devotional picture by Verrocchio, c. 1470
A prevalent tradition in Florence was the small altarpiece of the Virgin and Child. Many of these were created in
tempera
or glazed
terracotta
by the workshops of Filippo Lippi, Verrocchio and the prolific
della Robbia
family. [ 44 ]
Leonardo's early Madonnas such as
The Madonna with a carnation
and
The Benois Madonna
followed this tradition while showing idiosyncratic departures,
particularly in the case of the Benois Madonna in which the Virgin is
set at an oblique angle to the picture space with the Christ Child at
the opposite angle. This compositional theme was to emerge in Leonardo's
later paintings such as
The
Virgin and Child with St. Anne . [ 10 ]
Leonardo was a contemporary of
Botticelli ,
Domenico Ghirlandaio
and
Perugino , who were all slightly older than he was. [ 45 ]
He would have met them at the workshop of Verrocchio, with whom they had associations, and at the
Academy
of the
Medici . [ 10 ]
Botticelli was a particular favourite of the Medici family and thus his
success as a painter was assured. Ghirlandaio and Perugino were both
prolific and ran large workshops. They competently delivered commissions
to well-satisfied patrons who appreciated Ghirlandaio's ability to
portray the wealthy citizens of Florence within large religious
frescoes, and Perugino's ability to deliver a multitude of saints and
angels of unfailing sweetness and innocence. [ 44 ]
The Portinari Altarpiece , by
Hugo van der Goes
for a Florentine family
These three were among those commissioned to paint the walls of the
Sistine Chapel ,
the work commencing with Perugino's employment in 1479. Leonardo was
not part of this prestigious commission. His first significant
commission, The
Adoration of the Magi
for the Monks of Scopeto, was never completed. [ 10 ]
In 1476, during the time of Leonardo's association with Verrocchio's workshop, the
Portinari Altarpiece
by
Hugo van der Goes
arrived in Florence, bringing
new painterly techniques
from Northern Europe which were to profoundly effect Leonardo, Ghirlandaio, Perugino and others. [ 45 ]
In 1479, the Sicilian painter
Antonello da Messina , who worked exclusively in oils, traveled north on his way to
Venice , where the leading painter,
Giovanni Bellini
adopted the technique of
oil painting , quickly making it the preferred method in Venice. Leonardo was also later to visit Venice. [ 45 ] [ 47 ]
Like the two contemporary architects,
Bramante
and
Antonio da Sangallo the Elder ,
Leonardo experimented with designs for centrally planned churches, a
number of which appear in his journals, as both plans and views,
although none was ever realised. [ 45 ] [ 50 ]
Lorenzo de' Medici between Antonio Pucci and Francesco Sassetti, with Giulio de' Medici, fresco by Ghirlandaio
Leonardo's political contemporaries were
Lorenzo Medici
(il Magnifico), who was three years older, and his popular younger brother Giuliano who was slain in the
Pazzi Conspiracy
in 1478.
Ludovico il Moro
who ruled
Milan
between 1479–1499 and to whom Leonardo was sent as ambassador from the Medici court, was also of Leonardo's age. [ 45 ]
With Alberti, Leonardo visited the home of the Medici and through them came to know the older Humanist philosophers of whom
Marsiglio Ficino , proponent of
Neo Platonism ,
Cristoforo Landino , writer of commentaries on Classical writings, and
John Argyropoulos , teacher of Greek and translator of
Aristotle
were foremost. Also associated with the Academy of the Medici was
Leonardo's contemporary, the brilliant young poet and philosopher
Pico della Mirandola . [ 45 ] [ 47 ] [ 51 ]
Leonardo later wrote in the margin of a journal "The Medici made me and
the Medici destroyed me." While it was through the action of Lorenzo
that Leonardo was to receive his important Milanese commissions, it is
not known exactly what Leonardo meant by this cryptic comment. [ 10 ]
Although usually named together as the three giants of the
High Renaissance , Leonardo,
Michelangelo
and
Raphael
were not of the same generation. Leonardo was twenty-three when Michelangelo was born and thirty-one when Raphael was born. [ 45 ]
Raphael only lived until the age of 37 and died in 1520, the year after
Leonardo, but Michelangelo went on creating for another 45 years. [ 46 ] [ 47 ]
Study for a portrait of
Isabella d'Este
(1500)
Louvre .
Personal life
Main article:
Leonardo da Vinci's personal life
Within Leonardo's lifetime, his extraordinary powers of invention,
his "outstanding physical beauty", "infinite grace", "great strength and
generosity", "regal spirit and tremendous breadth of mind" as described
by Vasari, [ 52 ]
as well as all other aspects of his life, attracted the curiosity of
others. One such aspect is his respect for life evidenced by his
vegetarianism
and his habit, described by Vasari, of purchasing caged birds and releasing them. [ 53 ] [ 54 ]
Leonardo had many friends who are now renowned either in their fields
or for their historical significance. They included the mathematician
Luca Pacioli , [ 55 ]
with whom he collaborated on a book in the 1490s, as well as
Franchinus Gaffurius
and
Isabella d'Este . [ citation needed ]
Leonardo appears to have had no close relationships with women except
for his friendship with Isabella d'Este. He drew a portrait of her while
on a journey which took him through
Mantua , and which appears to have been used to create a painted portrait now lost. [ 10 ]
Beyond friendship, Leonardo kept his private life secret. His
sexuality has been the subject of satire, analysis, and speculation.
This trend began in the mid-16th century and was revived in the 19th and
20th centuries, most notably by
Sigmund Freud . [ 56 ]
Leonardo's most intimate relationships were perhaps with his pupils
Salai and Melzi. Melzi, writing to inform Leonardo's brothers of his
death, described Leonardo's feelings for his pupils as both loving and
passionate. It has been claimed since the 16th century that these
relationships were of a sexual or erotic nature. Court records of 1476,
when he was aged twenty-four, show that Leonardo and three other young
men were charged with
sodomy , and acquitted. [ 9 ]
Since that date much has been written about his presumed homosexuality
and its role in his art, particularly in the androgyny and eroticism
manifested in
John the Baptist
and
Bacchus
and more explicitly in a number of erotic drawings. [ 57 ]
Salai as
John the Baptist
(c. 1514)— Louvre
Assistants and pupils
Gian Giacomo Caprotti da Oreno, nicknamed
Salai
or
Il Salaino
("The Little Unclean One" i.e., the devil), entered Leonardo's
household in 1490. After only a year, Leonardo made a list of his
misdemeanours, calling him "a thief, a liar, stubborn, and a glutton",
after he had made off with money and valuables on at least five
occasions, and spent a fortune on clothes. [ 58 ]
Nevertheless, Leonardo treated him with great indulgence and he remained in Leonardo's household for the next thirty years. [ 59 ]
Salai executed a number of paintings under the name of Andrea Salai,
but although Vasari claims that Leonardo "taught him a great deal about
painting", [ 37 ]
his work is generally considered to be of less artistic merit than others among Leonardo's pupils, such as
Marco d'Oggione
and
Boltraffio . In 1515, he painted a nude version of the
Mona Lisa , known as
Monna Vanna . [ 60 ]
Salai owned the
Mona Lisa
at the time of his death in 1525, and in his will it was assessed at
505 lire, an exceptionally high valuation for a small panel portrait. [ 61 ]
In 1506, Leonardo took on another pupil, Count
Francesco Melzi , the son of a
Lombard
aristocrat, who is considered to have been his favourite student. He
travelled to France with Leonardo, and remained with him until the
latter's death. [ 10 ]
Upon Leonardo's death, Melzi inherited the artistic and scientific
works, manuscripts, and collections of Leonardo, and faithfully
administered the estate.
Painting
Annunciation
(1475–1480)—Uffizi, is thought to be Leonardo's earliest complete work
See also:
List of paintings by Leonardo da Vinci
Despite the recent awareness and admiration of Leonardo as a
scientist and inventor, for the better part of four hundred years his
enormous fame rested on his achievements as a painter and on a handful
of works, either authenticated or attributed to him that have been
regarded as among the supreme masterpieces ever created. [ 62 ]
These paintings are famous for a variety of qualities which have been
much imitated by students and discussed at great length by connoisseurs
and critics. Among the qualities that make Leonardo's work unique are
the innovative techniques that he used in laying on the paint, his
detailed knowledge of anatomy, light, botany and geology, his interest
in
physiognomy
and the way in which humans register emotion in expression and gesture,
his innovative use of the human form in figurative composition and his
use of the subtle gradation of tone. All these qualities come together
in his most famous painted works, the
Mona Lisa , the
Last Supper
and the
Virgin of the Rocks . [ 63 ]
Unfinished painting of
St. Jerome in the Wilderness , (c. 1480),
Vatican
Early works
Leonardo's early works begin with the
Baptism of Christ
painted in conjunction with Verrocchio. Two other paintings appear to date from his time at the workshop, both of which are
Annunciations . One is small,
59 centimetres (23 in)
long and
14 centimetres (5.5 in)
high. It is a "predella" to go at the base of a larger composition, in this case a painting by
Lorenzo di Credi
from which it has become separated. The other is a much larger work,
217 centimetres (85 in)
long. [ 64 ]
In both these Annunciations, Leonardo has used a formal arrangement,
such as in Fra Angelico's two well known pictures of the same subject,
of the
Virgin Mary
sitting or kneeling to the right of the picture, approached from the
left by an angel in profile, with rich flowing garment, raised wings and
bearing a lily. Although previously attributed to Ghirlandaio, the
larger work is now almost universally attributed to Leonardo. [ 65 ]
In the smaller picture Mary averts her eyes and folds her hands in a
gesture that symbolised submission to God's will. In the larger picture,
however, Mary is not in the least submissive. The beautiful girl,
interrupted in her reading by this unexpected messenger, puts a finger
in her bible to mark the place and raises her hand in a formal gesture
of greeting or surprise. [ 44 ]
This calm young woman appears to accept her role as the
Mother of God
not with resignation but with confidence. In this painting the young Leonardo presents the
Humanist
face of the Virgin Mary, recognising humanity's role in God's incarnation. [ nb 18 ]
Paintings of the 1480s
Virgin of the Rocks ,
Louvre , possibly 1505–1508, demonstrates Leonardo's interest in nature.
In the 1480s Leonardo received two very important commissions, and
commenced another work which was also of ground-breaking importance in
terms of composition. Unfortunately two of the three were never finished
and the third took so long that it was subject to lengthy negotiations
over completion and payment. One of these paintings is that of
St. Jerome in the Wilderness .
Bortolon associates this picture with a difficult period of Leonardo's
life, and the signs of melancholy in his diary: "I thought I was
learning to live; I was only learning to die." [ 10 ]
Although the painting is barely begun the composition can be seen and it is very unusual. [ nb 19 ]
Jerome , as a
penitent ,
occupies the middle of the picture, set on a slight diagonal and viewed
somewhat from above. His kneeling form takes on a trapezoid shape, with
one arm stretched to the outer edge of the painting and his gaze
looking in the opposite direction. J. Wasserman points out the link
between this painting and Leonardo's anatomical studies. [ 67 ]
Across the foreground sprawls his symbol, a great lion whose body and
tail make a double spiral across the base of the picture space. The
other remarkable feature is the sketchy landscape of craggy rocks
against which the figure is silhouetted.
The daring display of figure composition, the landscape elements and
personal drama also appear in the great unfinished masterpiece, the
Adoration of the Magi ,
a commission from the Monks of San Donato a Scopeto. It is a very
complex composition, of about 250 x 250 centimetres. Leonardo did
numerous drawings and preparatory studies, including a detailed one in
linear perspective of the ruined
classical architecture
which makes part of the backdrop to the scene. But in 1482 Leonardo went off to Milan at the behest of
Lorenzo de’ Medici
in order to win favour with
Ludovico il Moro
and the painting was abandoned. [ 9 ] [ 65 ]
The third important work of this period is the
Virgin of the Rocks
which was commissioned in Milan for the Confraternity of the Immaculate
Conception. The painting, to be done with the assistance of the de
Predis brothers, was to fill a large complex altarpiece, already
constructed. [ 68 ]
Leonardo chose to paint an apocryphal moment of the infancy of Christ when the Infant
John the Baptist ,
in protection of an angel, met the Holy Family on the road to Egypt. In
this scene, as painted by Leonardo, John recognizes and worships Jesus
as the Christ. The painting demonstrates an eerie beauty as the graceful
figures kneel in adoration around the infant Christ in a wild landscape
of tumbling rock and whirling water. [ 69 ]
While the painting is quite large, about
200 × 120 centimetres ,
it is not nearly as complex as the painting ordered by the monks of St
Donato, having only four figures rather than about fifty and a rocky
landscape rather than architectural details. The painting was eventually
finished; in fact, two versions of the painting were finished, one
which remained at the chapel of the Confraternity and the other which
Leonardo carried away to France. But the Brothers did not get their
painting, or the de Predis their payment, until the next century. [ 16 ] [ 28 ]
The Last Supper
(1498)— Convent of Sta. Maria delle Grazie ,
Milan , Italy
Paintings of the 1490s
Leonardo's most famous painting of the 1490s is
The Last Supper ,
also painted in Milan. The painting represents the last meal shared by
Jesus with his disciples before his capture and death. It shows
specifically the moment when Jesus has said "one of you will betray me".
Leonardo tells the story of the consternation that this statement
caused to the twelve followers of Jesus. [ 16 ]
The novelist
Matteo Bandello
observed Leonardo at work and wrote that some days he would paint from
dawn till dusk without stopping to eat, and then not paint for three or
four days at a time. [ 70 ]
This, according to Vasari, was beyond the comprehension of the prior,
who hounded him until Leonardo asked Ludovico to intervene. Vasari
describes how Leonardo, troubled over his ability to adequately depict
the faces of Christ and the traitor Judas, told the Duke that he might
be obliged to use the prior as his model. [ 71 ]
When finished, the painting was acclaimed as a masterpiece of design and characterisation, [ 72 ]
but it deteriorated rapidly, so that within a hundred years it was described by one viewer as "completely ruined". [ 73 ]
Leonardo, instead of using the reliable technique of fresco, had used
tempera over a ground that was mainly gesso, resulting in a surface
which was subject to mold and to flaking. [ 74 ]
Despite this, the painting has remained one of the most reproduced
works of art, countless copies being made in every medium from carpets
to cameos.
Paintings of the 1500s
Mona Lisa
or
La Gioconda
(1503–1505/1507)— Louvre , Paris, France
Among the works created by Leonardo in the 1500s is the small portrait known as the
Mona Lisa
or "la Gioconda", the laughing one. In the present era it is arguably
the most famous painting in the world. Its fame rests, in particular, on
the elusive smile on the woman's face, its mysterious quality brought
about perhaps by the fact that the artist has subtly shadowed the
corners of the mouth and eyes so that the exact nature of the smile
cannot be determined. The shadowy quality for which the work is renowned
came to be called " sfumato "
or Leonardo's smoke. Vasari, who is generally thought to have known the
painting only by repute, said that "the smile was so pleasing that it
seemed divine rather than human; and those who saw it were amazed to
find that it was as alive as the original". [ 75 ] [ nb 20 ]
Other characteristics found in this work are the unadorned dress, in
which the eyes and hands have no competition from other details, the
dramatic landscape background in which the world seems to be in a state
of flux, the subdued colouring and the extremely smooth nature of the
painterly technique, employing
oils , but laid on much like
tempera
and blended on the surface so that the brushstrokes are indistinguishable. [ nb 21 ]
Vasari expressed the opinion that the manner of painting would make
even "the most confident master ... despair and lose heart." [ 78 ]
The perfect state of preservation and the fact that there is no sign of
repair or overpainting is extremely rare in a panel painting of this
date. [ 79 ]
In the
Virgin and Child with St. Anne
(see below
[StAnne] ) the composition again picks up the theme of figures in a landscape which Wasserman describes as "breathtakingly beautiful" [ 80 ]
and harks back to the St Jerome picture with the figure set at an
oblique angle. What makes this painting unusual is that there are two
obliquely set figures superimposed. Mary is seated on the knee of her
mother, St Anne. She leans forward to restrain the Christ Child as he
plays roughly with a lamb, the sign of his own impending sacrifice. [ 16 ]
This painting, which was copied many times, was to influence
Michelangelo ,
Raphael , and
Andrea del Sarto , [ 81 ]
and through them
Pontormo
and
Correggio . The trends in composition were adopted in particular by the Venetian painters
Tintoretto
and
Veronese .
The Virgin and Child with St. Anne and St. John the Baptist
(c. 1499–1500)— National Gallery, London
Drawings
Leonardo was not a prolific painter, but he was a most prolific
draftsman, keeping journals full of small sketches and detailed drawings
recording all manner of things that took his attention. As well as the
journals there exist many studies for paintings, some of which can be
identified as preparatory to particular works such as
The Adoration of the Magi ,
The Virgin of the Rocks
and
The Last Supper . [ 82 ]
His earliest dated drawing is a
Landscape of the Arno Valley , 1473, which shows the river, the mountains, Montelupo Castle and the farmlands beyond it in great detail. [ 10 ] [ 82 ]
Among his famous drawings are the
Vitruvian Man , a study of the proportions of the human body, the
Head of an Angel , for
The Virgin of the Rocks
in the Louvre, a botanical study of
Star of Bethlehem
and a large drawing (160×100 cm) in black chalk on coloured paper of the
The Virgin and Child with St. Anne and St. John the Baptist
in the National Gallery, London. [ 82 ]
This drawing employs the subtle
sfumato
technique of shading, in the manner of the
Mona Lisa . It is thought that Leonardo never made a painting from it, the closest similarity being to
The Virgin and Child with St. Anne
in the Louvre. [ 83 ]
Other drawings of interest include numerous studies generally
referred to as "caricatures" because, although exaggerated, they appear
to be based upon observation of live models. Vasari relates that if
Leonardo saw a person with an interesting face he would follow them
around all day observing them. [ 84 ]
There are numerous studies of beautiful young men, often associated
with Salai, with the rare and much admired facial feature, the so-called
"Grecian profile". [ nb 22 ]
These faces are often contrasted with that of a warrior. [ 82 ]
Salai is often depicted in fancy-dress costume. Leonardo is known to
have designed sets for pageants with which these may be associated.
Other, often meticulous, drawings show studies of drapery. A marked
development in Leonardo's ability to draw drapery occurred in his early
works. Another often-reproduced drawing is a macabre sketch that was
done by Leonardo in Florence in 1479 showing the body of Bernardo
Baroncelli, hanged in connection with the murder of Giuliano, brother of
Lorenzo de'Medici, in the
Pazzi Conspiracy . [ 82 ]
With dispassionate integrity Leonardo has registered in neat
mirror writing
the colours of the robes that Baroncelli was wearing when he died.
Leonardo as observer, scientist and inventor
The
Vitruvian Man
(c. 1485)
Accademia, Venice
Main article:
Science and inventions of Leonardo da Vinci
Journals
Renaissance humanism
saw no mutually exclusive polarities between the sciences and the arts,
and Leonardo's studies in science and engineering are as impressive and
innovative as his artistic work, recorded in notebooks comprising some
13,000 pages of notes and drawings, which fuse art and
natural philosophy
(the forerunner of modern science). These notes were made and
maintained daily throughout Leonardo's life and travels, as he made
continual observations of the world around him. [ 16 ]
The journals are mostly written in mirror-image cursive. The reason
may have been more a practical expediency than for reasons of secrecy as
is often suggested. Since Leonardo wrote with his left hand, it is
probable that it was easier for him to write from right to left. [ nb 23 ]
A page from Leonardo's journal showing his study of a foetus in the womb (c. 1510) Royal Library,
Windsor Castle
His notes and drawings display an enormous range of interests and
preoccupations, some as mundane as lists of groceries and people who
owed him money and some as intriguing as designs for wings and shoes for
walking on water. There are compositions for paintings, studies of
details and drapery, studies of faces and emotions, of animals, babies,
dissections, plant studies, rock formations, whirl pools, war machines,
helicopters and architecture. [ 16 ]
These notebooks—originally loose papers of different types and sizes,
distributed by friends after his death—have found their way into major
collections such as the Royal Library at
Windsor Castle ,
the Louvre , the
Biblioteca Nacional de España , the
Victoria and Albert Museum , the
Biblioteca Ambrosiana
in
Milan
which holds the twelve-volume
Codex Atlanticus , and
British Library
in
London
which has put a selection from its notebook
BL Arundel MS 263
online. [ 85 ]
The
Codex Leicester
is the only major scientific work of Leonardo's in private hands. It is owned by
Bill Gates , and is displayed once a year in different cities around the world.
Leonardo's journals appear to have been intended for publication
because many of the sheets have a form and order that would facilitate
this. In many cases a single topic, for example, the heart or the human
foetus, is covered in detail in both words and pictures, on a single
sheet. [ 86 ] [ nb 24 ]
Why they were not published within Leonardo's lifetime is unknown. [ 16 ]
Scientific studies
Rhombicuboctahedron
as published in
Pacioli's
De Divina Proportione
Leonardo's approach to science was an observational one: he tried to
understand a phenomenon by describing and depicting it in utmost detail,
and did not emphasize experiments or
theoretical
explanation. Since he lacked formal education in
Latin
and
mathematics ,
contemporary scholars mostly ignored Leonardo the scientist, although
he did teach himself Latin. In the 1490s he studied mathematics under
Luca Pacioli
and prepared a series of drawings of regular solids in a skeletal form to be engraved as plates for Pacioli's book
De Divina Proportione , published in 1509. [ 16 ]
It appears that from the content of his journals he was planning a
series of treatises to be published on a variety of subjects. A coherent
treatise on
anatomy
was said to have been observed during a visit by Cardinal
Louis D'Aragon 's secretary in 1517. [ 87 ]
Aspects of his work on the studies of anatomy, light and the landscape
were assembled for publication by his pupil Francesco Melzi and
eventually published as
Treatise on Painting by Leonardo da Vinci
in France and Italy in 1651, and Germany in 1724, [ 88 ]
with engravings based upon drawings by the Classical painter
Nicholas Poussin . [ citation needed ]
According to Arasse, the treatise, which in France went into sixty two
editions in fifty years, caused Leonardo to be seen as "the precursor of
French academic thought on art". [ 16 ]
A recent and exhaustive analysis of Leonardo as Scientist by Frtijof Capra [ 89 ]
argues that Leonardo was a fundamentally different kind of scientist
from Galileo, Newton and other scientists who followed him. Leonardo's
experimentation followed clear scientific method approaches, and his
theorising and hypothesising integrated the arts and particularly
painting; these, and Leonardo's unique integrated, holistic views of
science make him a forerunner of modern systems theory and complexity
schools of thought.
Anatomical study of the arm, (c. 1510)
Anatomy
Leonardo's formal training in the
anatomy
of the
human body
began with his apprenticeship to
Andrea del Verrocchio , his teacher insisting that all his pupils learn anatomy. As an artist, he quickly became master of
topographic anatomy , drawing many studies of
muscles ,
tendons
and other visible anatomical features.
As a successful artist, he was given permission to
dissect
human corpses at the
Hospital of Santa Maria Nuova
in
Florence
and later at hospitals in Milan and
Rome . From 1510 to 1511 he collaborated in his studies with the doctor
Marcantonio della Torre
and together they prepared a theoretical work on anatomy for which
Leonardo made more than 200 drawings. It was published only in 1680 (161
years after his death) under the heading
Treatise on painting . [ 16 ] [ 82 ]
Leonardo drew many studies of the
human skeleton
and its parts, as well as muscles and sinews, the heart and
vascular system , the
sex organs , and other internal organs. He made one of the first scientific drawings of a
fetus
in utero . [ 82 ]
As an artist, Leonardo closely observed and recorded the effects of age
and of human emotion on the physiology, studying in particular the
effects of rage. He also drew many figures who had significant facial
deformities or signs of illness. [ 16 ] [ 82 ]
Leonardo also studied and drew the anatomy of many other animals as
well, dissecting cows, birds, monkeys, bears, and frogs, and comparing
in his drawings their anatomical structure with that of humans. He also
made a number of studies of horses.
Engineering and inventions
A design for a flying machine, (c. 1488) Institut de France, Paris
During his lifetime Leonardo was valued as an engineer. In a letter to
Ludovico il Moro
he claimed to be able to create all sorts of machines both for the
protection of a city and for siege. When he fled to Venice in 1499 he
found employment as an engineer and devised a system of moveable
barricades to protect the city from attack. He also had a scheme for
diverting the flow of the Arno River, a project on which
Niccolò Machiavelli
also worked. [ 90 ] [ 91 ]
Leonardo's journals include a vast number of inventions, both practical and impractical. They include
musical instruments , hydraulic pumps, reversible crank mechanisms, finned mortar shells, and a
steam cannon . [ 10 ] [ 16 ]
In 1502, Leonardo produced a drawing of a single span 720-foot (220 m) bridge as part of a
civil engineering
project for Ottoman
Sultan
Beyazid II
of
Istanbul . The bridge was intended to span an inlet at the mouth of the
Bosporus
known as the
Golden Horn .
Beyazid did not pursue the project, because he believed that such a
construction was impossible. Leonardo's vision was resurrected in 2001
when a
smaller bridge
based on his design was constructed in Norway. [ 92 ]
On May 17, 2006, the Turkish government decided to construct Leonardo's bridge to span the
Golden Horn . [ 93 ]
For much of his life, Leonardo was fascinated by the phenomenon of
flight , producing many studies of the flight of birds, including his c. 1505
Codex on the Flight of Birds , as well as plans for several flying machines, including a
helicopter
and a light
hang glider . [ 16 ]
Most were impractical, like his aerial screw helicopter design that
could not provide lift. However, the hang glider has been successfully
constructed and demonstrated. [ 94 ]
Leonardo the legend
Main article:
Cultural depictions of Leonardo da Vinci
Francis I of France
receiving the last breath of Leonardo da Vinci, by
Ingres , 1818.
Within Leonardo's own lifetime his fame was such that the King of
France carried him away like a trophy, and was claimed to have supported
him in his old age and held him in his arms as he died. [ 95 ]
The interest in Leonardo has never slackened. The crowds still queue to see his most famous artworks,
T-shirts
bear his most famous drawing and writers, like Vasari, continue to
marvel at his genius and speculate about his private life and,
particularly, about what one so intelligent actually believed in. [ 16 ]
Giorgio Vasari , in the enlarged edition of
Lives of the Artists , 1568, [ 96 ]
introduced his chapter on Leonardo da Vinci with the following words:
In the normal course of events many men and women are born with
remarkable talents; but occasionally, in a way that transcends nature, a
single person is marvellously endowed by Heaven with beauty, grace and
talent in such abundance that he leaves other men far behind, all his
actions seem inspired and indeed everything he does clearly comes from
God rather than from human skill. Everyone acknowledged that this was
true of Leonardo da Vinci, an artist of outstanding physical beauty, who
displayed infinite grace in everything that he did and who cultivated
his genius so brilliantly that all problems he studied he solved with
ease.
— Giorgio Vasari
Statue of Leonardo da Vinci at the
Uffizi , Florence
The continued admiration that Leonardo commanded from painters,
critics and historians is reflected in many other written tributes.
Baldassare Castiglione , author of
Il Cortegiano
("The Courtier"), wrote in 1528: "... Another of the greatest painters
in this world looks down on this art in which he is unequalled ..." [ 97 ]
while the biographer known as "Anonimo Gaddiano" wrote, c. 1540: "His
genius was so rare and universal that it can be said that nature worked a
miracle on his behalf ...". [ 98 ]
The 19th century brought a particular admiration for Leonardo's genius, causing
Henry Fuseli
to write in 1801: "Such was the dawn of modern art, when Leonardo da
Vinci broke forth with a splendour that distanced former excellence:
made up of all the elements that constitute the essence of genius ..." [ 99 ]
This is echoed by A. E. Rio who wrote in 1861: "He towered above all
other artists through the strength and the nobility of his talents." [ 100 ]
By the 19th century, the scope of Leonardo's notebooks was known, as well as his paintings.
Hippolyte Taine
wrote in 1866: "There may not be in the world an example of another
genius so universal, so incapable of fulfilment, so full of yearning for
the infinite, so naturally refined, so far ahead of his own century and
the following centuries." [ 101 ]
The famous art historian
Bernard Berenson
wrote in 1896: "Leonardo is the one artist of whom it may be said with
perfect literalness: Nothing that he touched but turned into a thing of
eternal beauty. Whether it be the cross section of a skull, the
structure of a weed, or a study of muscles, he, with his feeling for
line and for light and shade, forever transmuted it into
life-communicating values." [ 102 ]
The interest in Leonardo's genius has continued unabated; experts
study and translate his writings, analyse his paintings using scientific
techniques, argue over attributions and search for works which have
been recorded but never found. [ 103 ]
Liana Bortolon, writing in 1967, said: "Because of the multiplicity of
interests that spurred him to pursue every field of knowledge ...
Leonardo can be considered, quite rightly, to have been the universal
genius par excellence, and with all the disquieting overtones inherent
in that term. Man is as uncomfortable today, faced with a genius, as he
was in the 16th century. Five centuries have passed, yet we still view
Leonardo with awe." [ 10 ]
See also
Book:Leonardo da Vinci
Books
are collections of articles that can be downloaded or ordered in print.
About Leonardo
Cultural depictions of Leonardo da Vinci Leonardo da Vinci, A Memory of His Childhood
(essay) Leonardo da Vinci's personal life List of paintings by Leonardo da Vinci Category:Leonardo da Vinci paintings Science and inventions of Leonardo da Vinci Codex Arundel
Related subjects
Aerial perspective History of the internal combustion engine Italian Renaissance painting Leonardo da Vinci Airport Leonardo da Vinci Art Institute List of Italian painters List of vegetarians Medical Renaissance Renaissance technology
Footnotes
^
This drawing in red chalk is widely (though not universally) accepted as an original
self-portrait .
The main reason for hesitation in accepting it as a portrait of
Leonardo is that the subject is apparently of a greater age than
Leonardo ever achieved. But it is possible that he drew this picture of
himself deliberately aged, specifically for Raphael's portrait of him in
The School of Athens . ^
There are 15 significant artworks which are ascribed, either in whole
or in large part, to Leonardo by most art historians. This number is
made up principally of paintings on panel but includes a mural, a large
drawing on paper and two works which are in the early stages of
preparation. There are a number of other works that have also been
variously attributed to Leonardo. ^
Modern scientific approaches to
metallurgy
and
engineering
were only in their infancy during the Renaissance. ^
A number of Leonardo's most practical inventions are displayed as working models at the Museum of Vinci. ^
The third hour of the night was 10:30 pm, three hours after the saying of the
Ave Maria . [ 7 ] ^
It has been suggested that Caterina may have been a slave from the
Middle East
"or at least, from the Mediterranean". According to Alessandro Vezzosi,
Head of the Leonardo Museum in Vinci, there is evidence that Piero
owned a Middle Eastern slave called Caterina. That Leonardo had Middle
Eastern blood is claimed to be supported by the reconstruction of a
fingerprint as reported by Marta Falconi, Associated Press Writer, " Experts Reconstruct Leonardo Fingerprint "
December 12, 2006", accessed 2010-01-06. The evidence as stated in the
article is that 60% of people of Middle Eastern Origin share the pattern
of whorls found on the reconstructed fingerprint. The article also
states that the claim is refuted by Simon Cole, associate professor of
criminology, law and society at the University of California at Irvine.
"You can't predict one person's race from these kinds of incidences," he
said, especially if looking at only one finger." ^
The "diverse arts" and technicall skills of Medieval and Renaissance
workshops are described in detail in the 12th century text
On Divers Arts
by
Theophilus Presbyter
and in the early 15th century text
Il Libro Dell'arte O Trattato Della Pittui
by
Cennino Cennini . ^
That Leonardo joined the guild before this time is deduced from the
record of payment made to the Compagnia di San Luca in the company's
register, Libro Rosso A, 1472–1520, Accademia di Belle Arti. [ 9 ] ^
This work is now in the collection of the
Uffizi , Drawing No. 8P. ^
Homosexual acts were illegal in Renaissance Florence. ^
Verrocchio's statue of Bartolomeo Colleoni was not cast until 1488,
after his death, and after Leonardo had already begun work on the statue
for Ludovico. ^
In 2005, the studio was rediscovered during the restoration of part of a
building occupied for 100 years by the Department of Military
Geography. [ 30 ] ^
Both works are lost. While the entire composition of Michelangelo's
painting is known from a copy by Aristotole da Sangallo, 1542. [ 31 ]
Leonardo's painting is only known from preparatory sketches and several
copies of the centre section, of which the best known, and probably
least accurate is by
Peter Paul Rubens . [ 32 ] ^
D'Oggione is known in part for his contemporary copies of the
Last Supper . ^
It is unknown for what occasion the mechanical lion was made but it is believed to have greeted the King at his entry into
Lyon
and perhaps was used for the peace talks between the French king and
Pope Leo X
in
Bologna . A conjectural recreated of the lion has been made and is on display in the Museum of
Bologna . [ 38 ] ^
Clos Lucé, also called Cloux, is now a public museum. ^
On the day of Leonardo's death, a royal edict was issued by the King at
Saint-Germain-en-Laye , a two-day journey from
Clos Lucé . This has been taken as evidence that King François cannot have been present at Leonardo's deathbed. However, White in
Leonardo: The First Scientist
points out that the edict was not signed by the king himself. ^
Michael Baxandall lists 5 "laudable conditions" or reactions of Mary to
the presence and announcement of the angel. These are: Disquiet,
Reflection, Inquiry, Submission and Merit. In this painting Mary's
attitude does not comply with any of the accepted traditions. [ 66 ] ^
The painting, which in the 18th century belonged to
Angelica Kauffmann , was later cut up. The two main sections were found in a junk shop and cobbler's shop and were reunited. [ 67 ]
It is probable that outer parts of the composition are missing. ^
Whether or not Vasari had seen the Mona Lisa is the subject of debate. The opinion that he had
not
seen the painting is based mainly on the fact that he describes the Mona Lisa as having eyebrows. Daniel Arasse in
Leonardo da Vinci
discusses the possibility that Leonardo may have painted the figure
with eyebrows which were subsequently removed. (They were not
fashionable in the mid 16th century.) [ 16 ]
The analysis of high resolution scans made by Pascal Cotte has revealed
that the Mona Lisa had eyebrows and eyelashes which have been
subsequently removed. [ 76 ] ^
Jack Wasserman writes of "the inimitable treatment of the surfaces" of this painting. [ 77 ] ^
The "Grecian profile" has a continuous straight line from forehead to
nose-tip, the bridge of the nose being exceptionally high. It is a
feature of many
Classical Greek
statues. ^
Left-handed writers using a split nib or quill pen experience difficulty pushing the pen from left to right across the page. ^
This method of organisation minimises of loss of data in the case of pages being mixed up or destroyed.
References
^
a
b
c
Gardner, Helen (1970).
Art through the Ages . pp. 450–456.
^
a
b
c
Vasari, Boltraffio, Castiglione, "Anonimo" Gaddiano, Berensen, Taine,
Fuseli, Rio, Bortolon, etc. See specific quotations under heading
"Leonardo, the legend". ^
Rosci, Marco (1977).
Leonardo . p. 8.
^
Vitruvian Man is referred to as "iconic" at the following websites and many others: Vitruvian Man ,
Fine Art Classics ,
Key Images in the History of Science ;
Curiosity and difference ;
The Guardian: The Real da Vinci Code ^
The Controversial Replica of Leonardo's Adding Machine
accessdate=2010-01-07 ^
See expanded in article
Science and inventions of Leonardo da Vinci ^
a
b
Vezzosi, Alessandro (1997).
Leonardo da Vinci: Renaissance Man .
^
a
b
His birth is recorded in the diary of his paternal grandfather Ser Antonio, as cited by Angela Ottino della Chiesa in
Leonardo da Vinci , p.83 ^
a
b
c
d
e
f
g
della Chiesa, Angela Ottino (1967).
The Complete Paintings of Leonardo da Vinci . p. 83.
^
a
b
c
d
e
f
g
h
i
j
k
l
m
n
o
p
q
r
Bortolon, Liana (1967).
The Life and Times of Leonardo . London: Paul Hamlyn.
^
Rosci, p.20 ^
Rosci, p.21 ^
Brigstoke, Hugh (2001).
The Oxford Companion the Western Art .
^
Vasari, Giorgio (1568).
Lives of the Artists . Penguin Classics. pp. 258–9.
^
Rosci, p.13 ^
a
b
c
d
e
f
g
h
i
j
k
l
m
n
o
p
q
r
s
t
Arasse, Daniel (1998).
Leonardo da Vinci .
^
Rosci, p.27 ^
Martindale, Andrew (1972).
The Rise of the Artist .
^
Vasari, p.258 ^
della Chiesa, p.88 ^
Priwer, Shana; Phillips, Cynthia (2006).
The Everything Da Vinci Book . pp. 245.
^
a
b
Wasserman, Jack (1975).
Leonardo da Vinci . pp. 77–78.
^
Winternitz, Emanuel (1982).
Leonardo Da Vinci As a Musician .
^
Rossi, Paolo (2001).
The Birth of Modern Science . p. 33.
^
"Leonardo's Letter to Ludovico Sforza" . Leonardo-History .
http://www.leonardo-history.com/life.htm?Section=S5 . Retrieved 2010-01-05 .
^
Kemp, Martin (2004).
Leonardo .
^
Codex II, 95 r, Victoria and Albert Museum, as cited by della Chiesa p. 85 ^
a
b
c
d
della Chiesa, p.85 ^
Vasari, p.256 ^
Owen, Richard (2005-01-12).
"Found: the studio where Leonardo met Mona Lisa" . London:
The Times .
http://www.timesonline.co.uk/tol/news/world/article411195.ece . Retrieved 2010-01-05 .
^
Goldscheider, Ludwig (1967).
Michelangelo: paintings, sculptures, architecture . Phaidon Press.
ISBN
9780714813141 .
^
della Chiesa, pp.106–107 ^
Gaetano Milanesi,
Epistolario Buonarroti , Florence (1875), as cited by della Chiesa. ^
a
b
c
della Chiesa, p.86 ^
Georges Goyau,
François I] ,
Transcribed by Gerald Rossi. The Catholic Encyclopedia, Volume VI.
Published 1909. New York: Robert Appleton Company. Retrieved on
2007-10-04 ^
Miranda, Salvador (1998–2007).
"The Cardinals of the Holy Roman Church: Antoine du Prat" .
http://www.fiu.edu/~mirandas/bios1527-ii.htm . Retrieved 2007-10-04 .
^
a
b
Vasari, p.265 ^
"Reconstruction of Leonardo's walking lion"
(in Italian) .
http://www.ancientandautomata.com/ita/lavori/leone.htm . Retrieved 2010-01-05 .
^
For such images, see
Cultural depictions of Leonardo da Vinci . ^
Vasari, p.270 ^
"Leonardo's will" . Leonardo-history .
http://www.leonardo-history.com/life.htm?Section=S6 . Retrieved 2007-09-28 .
^
Mario Lucertini, Ana Millan Gasca, Fernando Nicolo (2004).
Technological Concepts and Mathematical Models in the Evolution of Modern Engineering Systems . Birkhäuser.
ISBN
9783764369408 .
http://books.google.com/?id=YISIUycS4HgC&pg=PA13&lpg=PA13&dq=leonardo+cellini+francois+philosopher . Retrieved 2007-10-03 .
^
Rosci, p. 13 ^
a
b
c
d
e
f
Hartt, Frederich (1970).
A History of Italian Renaissance Art . pp. 127–333.
^
a
b
c
d
e
f
g
h
i
Rosci,
Leonardo , chapter 1,
the historical setting , pp.9–20 ^
a
b
c
Brucker, Gene A. (1969).
Renaissance Florence .
^
a
b
c
d
e
Rachum, Ilan (1979).
The Renaissance, an Illustrated Encyclopedia .
^
Piero della Francesca,
On Perspective for Painting (De Prospectiva Pingendi) ^
Leon Battista Alberti,
De Pictura , 1435.
On Painting , in English ,
De Pictura , in Latin ^
Hartt, pp.391–2 ^
Williamson, Hugh Ross (1974).
Lorenzo the Magnificent .
^
Vasari, p.253 ^
Vasari, p.257 ^
Eugene Muntz,
Leonardo da Vinci Artist, Thinker, and Man of Science
(1898), quoted at
Leonardo da Vinci's Ethical Vegetarianism ^
Bambach, Carmen (2003).
"Leonardo, Left-Handed Draftsman and Writer" . New York: Metropolitan Museum of Art .
http://www.metmuseum.org/special/Leonardo_Master_Draftsman/draftsman_left_essay.asp . Retrieved 2009-10-18 .
^
Sigmund Freud,
Eine Kindheitserinnerung des Leonardo da Vinci , (1910) ^
Michael Rocke,
Forbidden Friendships
epigraph, p. 148 & N120 p.298 ^
Leonardo, Codex C. 15v, Institut of France. Trans. Richter ^
della Chiesa, p.84 ^
Gross, Tom.
"Mona Lisa Goes Topless" . Paintingsdirect.com .
http://web.archive.org/web/20070403073656/www.paintingsdirect.com/content/artnews/032001/artnews1.html . Retrieved 2007-09-27 .
^
Rossiter, Nick (2003-07-04).
"Could this be the secret of her smile?" . London: Telegraph.co.UK .
http://www.telegraph.co.uk/arts/main.jhtml?xml=/arts/2003/04/07/banr.xml . Retrieved 2007-10-03 .
^
By the 1490s Leonardo had already been described as a "Divine" painter. His fame is discussed by Daniel Arasse in
Leonardo da Vinci , pp.11–15 ^
These qualities of Leonardo's works are discussed by Frederick Hartt in
A History of Italian Renaissance Art , pp.387–411. ^
della Chiesa, pp. 88, 90 ^
a
b
Berti, Luciano (1971).
The Uffizi . pp. 59–62.
^
Baxandall, Michael (1974).
Painting and Experience in Fifteenth Century Italy . pp. 49–56.
^
a
b
Wasserman, pp.104–6 ^
Wasserman, p.108 ^
"The Mysterious Virgin" .
National Gallery, London .
http://www.nationalgallery.org.uk/collection/features/potm/2006/may/feature1.htm . Retrieved 2007-09-27 .
^
Wasserman, p.124 ^
Vasari, p.263 ^
Vasari, p.262 ^
della Chiesa, p.97 ^
della Chiesa, p.98 ^
Vasari, p.267 ^
"The Mona Lisa had brows and lashes" .
BBC News . October 22, 2007 .
http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/entertainment/7056041.stm . Retrieved 2008-02-22 .
^
Wasserman, p.144 ^
Vasari, p.266 ^
della Chiesa, p.103 ^
Wasserman, p.150 ^
della Chiesa, p.109 ^
a
b
c
d
e
f
g
h
Popham, A.E. (1946).
The Drawings of Leonardo da Vinci .
^
della Chiesa, p.102 ^
Vasari, p.261 ^
"Sketches by Leonardo" .
Turning the Pages .
British Library .
http://www.bl.uk/onlinegallery/ttp/ttpbooks.html . Retrieved 2007-09-27 .
^
Windsor Castle, Royal Library, sheets RL 19073v-19074v and RL 19102 respectively. ^
O'Malley; Saunders (1982).
Leonardo on the Human Body . New York: Dover Publications.
^
della Chiesa, p.117 ^
Capra, Fritjof. The Science of Leonardo; Inside the Mind of the Genius of the Renaissance. (New York, Doubleday, 2007) ^
Roger Masters
(1996).
Machiavelli, Leonardo and the Science of Power .
^
Roger Masters
(1998).
Fortune is a River: Leonardo Da Vinci and Niccolo Machiavelli's Magnificent Dream to Change the Course of Florentine History .
^
The Leonardo Bridge Project ^
Levy, Daniel S. (October 4, 1999).
"Dream of the Master" .
Time
magazine .
http://www.vebjorn-sand.com/dreamsofthemaster.html . Retrieved 2007-09-27 .
^
The U.S.
Public Broadcasting Service
(PBS), aired in October 2005, a television programme called "Leonardo's
Dream Machines", about the building and successful flight of a glider
based on Leonardo's design. ^
see reference to this in section "Old age". ^
Vasari, p.255 ^
Castiglione, Baldassare
(1528).
Il Cortegiano .
^
"Anonimo Gaddiani", elaborating on
Libro di Antonio Billi , 1537–1542 ^
Fuseli, Henry (1801).
Lectures .
II .
^
Rio, A.E. (1861).
L'art chrétien .
^
Taine, Hippolyte (1866).
Voyage en Italie .
^
Berenson, Bernard
(1896).
The Italian Painters of the Renaissance .
^
Melinda Henneberger.
"ArtNews article about current studies into Leonardo's life and works" . Art News Online .
http://web.archive.org/web/20060505165842/http://www.artnewsonline.com/currentarticle.cfm?art_id=1240 . Retrieved 2010-01-10 .
Bibliography
Daniel Arasse (1997).
Leonardo da Vinci . Konecky & Konecky.
ISBN
1 56852 1987 .
Michael Baxandall (1974).
Painting and Experience in Fifteenth Century Italy . Oxford University Press.
ISBN
0 19 881329 5 .
Fred Bérence (1965).
Léonard de Vinci, L'homme et son oeuvre . Somogy. Dépot légal 4° trimestre 1965.
Luciano Berti (1971).
The Uffizi . Scala.
Liana Bortolon (1967).
The Life and Times of Leonardo . Paul Hamlyn, London.
Hugh Brigstoke (2001).
The Oxford Companion the Western Art . USA: Oxford University Press.
ISBN
0198662033 .
Gene A. Brucker (1969).
Renaissance Florence . Wiley and Sons.
ISBN
0 471 11370 0 .
Cennino Cennini (2009).
Il Libro Dell'arte O Trattato Della Pittui . USA: BiblioBazaar.
ISBN
9781103390328 .
Angela Ottino della Chiesa (1967).
The Complete Paintings of Leonardo da Vinci . Penguin Classics of World Art series.
ISBN
0-14-00-8649-8 .
Simona Cremante (2005).
Leonardo da Vinci: Artist, Scientist, Inventor . Giunti.
ISBN
88-09-03891-6 (hardback) .
Frederich Hartt (1970).
A History of Italian Renaissance Art . Thames and Hudson.
ISBN
0500231362 .
Michael H. Hart (1992).
The 100 . Carol Publishing Group.
ISBN
0-8065-1350-0 (paperback) .
Martin Kemp (2004).
Leonardo . Oxford University Press.
ISBN
0192806440 .
Mario Lucertini, Ana Millan Gasca, Fernando Nicolo (2004).
Technological Concepts and Mathematical Models in the Evolution of Modern Engineering Systems . Birkhauser.
ISBN
376436940X .
John N. Lupia.
The Secret Revealed: How to Look at Italian Renaissance Painting . Medieval and Renaissance Times, Vol. 1, no. 2 (Summer, 1994): 6–17. ISSN 1075-2110.
Andrew Martindale (1972).
The Rise of the Artist . Thames and Hudson.
ISBN
0-5000-56006 .
Roger Masters
(1996).
Machiavelli, Leonardo and the Science of Power . University of Notre Dame Press.
ISBN
0-268-01433-7 .
Roger Masters
(1998).
Fortune is a River: Leonardo Da Vinci and Niccolo Machiavelli's Magnificent Dream to Change the Course of Florentine History . Simon & Schuster.
ISBN
0-452-28090-7 .
Charles D. O'Malley and J. B. de C. M. Sounders (1952).
Leonardo
on the Human Body: The Anatomical, Physiological, and Embryological
Drawings of Leonardo da Vinci. With Translations, Emendations and a
Biographical Introduction . Henry Schuman, New York.
Charles Nicholl (2005).
Leonardo da Vinci, The Flights of the Mind . Penguin.
ISBN
0-14-029681-6 .
Sherwin B. Nuland (2001).
Leonardo Da Vinci . Phoenix Press.
ISBN
0-7538-1269 .
A.E. Popham (1946).
The Drawings of Leonardo da Vinci . Jonathan Cape.
ISBN
0 224 60462 7 .
Shana Priwer & Cynthia Phillips (2006).
The Everything Da Vinci Book: Explore the Life and Times of the Ultimate Renaissance Man . Adams Media.
ISBN
1598691015 .
Ilan Rachum (1979).
The Renaissance, an Illustrated Encyclopedia . Octopus.
ISBN
0-7064-0857-8 .
Jean Paul Richter
(1970).
The Notebooks of Leonardo da Vinci . Dover.
ISBN
0-486-22572-0 and ISBN 0-486-22573-9 (paperback) .
2 volumes. A reprint of
the original 1883 edition . Marco Rosci (1977).
Leonardo . Bay Books Pty Ltd.
ISBN
0858351765 .
Paolo Rossi (2001).
The Birth of Modern Science . Blackwell Publishing.
ISBN
0631227113 .
Bruno Santi (1990).
Leonardo da Vinci . Scala / Riverside.
Theophilus (1963).
On Divers Arts . USA: University of Chicago Press.
ISBN
9780226794822 .
Jack Wasserman (1975).
Leonardo da Vinci . Abrams.
ISBN
0-8109-0262-1 .
Giorgio Vasari
(1568).
Lives of the Artists . Penguin Classics, trans. George Bull 1965.
ISBN
0-14-044-164-6 .
Williamson, Hugh Ross (1974).
Lorenzo the Magnificent . Michael Joseph.
ISBN
07181 12040 .
Emanuel Winternitz (1982).
Leonardo Da Vinci As a Musician . USA: Yale University Press.
ISBN
9780300026313 .
Alessandro Vezzosi (1997 (English translation)).
Leonardo da Vinci: Renaissance Man . Thames & Hudson Ltd, London.
ISBN
0-500-30081-X .
Frank Zollner (2003).
Leonardo da Vinci: The Complete Paintings and Drawings . Taschen.
ISBN
3-8228-1734-1 (hardback) .
[The chapter "The Graphic Works" is by Frank Zollner & Johannes Nathan].
External links
Find more about
Leonardo da Vinci
on Wikipedia's
sister projects :
Definitions
from Wiktionary
Textbooks
from Wikibooks
Quotations
from Wikiquote
Source texts
from Wikisource
Images and media
from Commons
News stories
from Wikinews
Learning resources
from Wikiversity
" Leonardo da Vinci " in the 1913
Catholic Encyclopedia . Leonardo da Vinci: Experience, Experiment, Design (review) Works by Leonardo da Vinci
at
Project Gutenberg Leonardo da Vinci
by Maurice Walter Brockwell
at
Project Gutenberg Complete text & images of Richter's translation of the Notebooks Vasari Life of Leonardo : in
Lives of the Most Eminent Painters, Sculptors, and Architects . Web Gallery of Leonardo Paintings Drawings of Leonardo da Vinci Da Vinci Decoded
Article from
The Guardian The true face of Leonardo Da Vinci? Leonardo da Vinci's Ethical Vegetarianism The Notebooks of Leonardo da Vinci "Leonardo da Vinci" .
Find a Grave .
http://www.findagrave.com/cgi-bin/fg.cgi?page=gr&GRid=3673 .
v
•
d
•
e
Leonardo da Vinci
Key : *Attributed ( see here for details )
·
**Collaboration with
Verrocchio
·
†Lost
Paintings
† Medusa
·
** The Baptism of Christ
·
The Annunciation
·
* Ginevra de' Benci
·
* The Madonna of the Carnation
·
* Benois Madonna
·
St. Jerome in the Wilderness
·
The Adoration of the Magi
·
The Virgin of the Rocks
(Louvre version)
·
* Lady with an Ermine
·
* Portrait of a Musician
·
* Madonna Litta
·
* La belle ferronnière
·
The Last Supper
·
* Madonna of the Yarnwinder
·
Mona Lisa
·
The Virgin of the Rocks
(London version)
·
† The Battle of Anghiari
·
† Leda and the Swan
·
The Virgin and Child with St. Anne
·
St. John the Baptist
·
* Bacchus
Sculpture
Leonardo's horse
(unexecuted)
Works on paper
Vitruvian Man
·
The Virgin and Child with St Anne and St John the Baptist
·
Self-Portrait
Manuscripts
Codex Arundel
·
Codex Atlanticus
·
Codex on the Flight of Birds
·
Codex Leicester
·
Codex Trivulzianus
·
A Treatise on Painting
Inventions
Leonardo's robot
·
Viola organista
Cultural depictions of Leonardo da Vinci
·
Science and inventions of Leonardo da Vinci
·
Leonardo da Vinci's personal life Michelangelo
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
This is the
latest accepted revision ,
accepted
on
9 August 2010 .
Michelangelo
Portrait of Michelangelo by
Jacopino del Conte
(after 1535) at the age of 60
Birth name
Michelangelo di Lodovico Buonarroti Simoni
Born
6 March 1475 ( 1475-03-06 ) near
Arezzo ,
Caprese ,
Tuscany
Died
18 February 1564 (aged 88) Rome ,
Italy
Nationality
Italian
Field
sculpture, painting, architecture, and poetry
Training
Apprentice to
Domenico Ghirlandaio
[ 1 ]
Movement
High Renaissance
Works
David ,
The Creation of Adam ,
Pietà
Self portrait as the head of
Holofernes
from the
Sistine Chapel ceiling
Michelangelo di Lodovico Buonarroti Simoni [ 1 ]
(6 March 1475 – 18 February 1564), commonly known as
Michelangelo , was an
Italian Renaissance
painter ,
sculptor ,
architect , poet, and
engineer .
Despite making few forays beyond the arts, his versatility in the
disciplines he took up was of such a high order that he is often
considered a contender for the title of the archetypal
Renaissance man , along with his rival and fellow Italian,
Leonardo da Vinci .
Michelangelo's output in every field during his long life was
prodigious; when the sheer volume of correspondence, sketches, and
reminiscences that survive is also taken into account, he is the
best-documented artist of the 16th century. Two of his best-known works,
the
Pietà
and
David ,
were sculpted before he turned thirty. Despite his low opinion of
painting, Michelangelo also created two of the most influential works in
fresco
in the history of Western art: the
scenes from Genesis
on the ceiling and
The Last Judgment
on the altar wall of the
Sistine Chapel
in Rome. As an architect, Michelangelo pioneered the
Mannerist
style at the
Laurentian Library . At 74 he succeeded
Antonio da Sangallo the Younger
as the architect of
Saint Peter's Basilica .
Michelangelo transformed the plan, the western end being finished to
Michelangelo's design, the dome being completed after his death with
some modification.
In a demonstration of Michelangelo's unique standing, he was the
first Western artist whose biography was published while he was alive. [ 2 ]
Two biographies were published of him during his lifetime; one of them, by
Giorgio Vasari , proposed that he was the pinnacle of all artistic achievement since the beginning of the
Renaissance , a viewpoint that continued to have currency in art history for centuries. In his lifetime he was also often called
Il Divino
("the divine one"). [ 3 ]
One of the qualities most admired by his contemporaries was his
terribilità ,
a sense of awe-inspiring grandeur, and it was the attempts of
subsequent artists to imitate Michelangelo's impassioned and highly
personal style that resulted in
Mannerism , the next major movement in Western art after the
High Renaissance .
Contents
1
Biography
1.1
Early life 1.2
Early adulthood
1.2.1
Rome
2
Works
2.1
Statue of David 2.2
Sistine Chapel ceiling 2.3
Under Medici Popes in Florence 2.4
Last works in Rome 2.5
Last sketch found
3
Architectural work
3.1
Laurentian Library 3.2
Medici Chapel
4
Personality 5
Sexuality 6
See also 7
Footnotes 8
References 9
Further reading 10
External links
Biography
Early life
Michelangelo was born on 6 March 1475 [a]
in
Caprese
near
Arezzo ,
Tuscany . [ 4 ]
For several generations, his family had been small-scale bankers in
Florence, but his father, Lodovico di Leonardo di Buonarroti di Simoni,
failed to maintain the bank's financial status, and held occasional
government positions. [ 2 ]
At the time of Michelangelo's birth, his father was the
Judicial administrator
of the small town of Caprese and
local administrator
of
Chiusi . Michelangelo's mother was Francesca di Neri del Miniato di Siena. [ 5 ]
The Buonarrotis claimed to descend from the Countess
Mathilde of Canossa ; this claim remains unproven, but Michelangelo himself believed it. [ 6 ]
Several months after Michelangelo's birth, the family returned to
Florence, where Michelangelo was raised. At later times, during the
prolonged illness and after the death of his mother when he was seven
years old, Michelangelo lived with a stonecutter and his wife and family
in the town of
Settignano , where his father owned a marble quarry and a small farm. [ 5 ]
Giorgio Vasari
quotes Michelangelo as saying, "If there is some good in me, it is
because I was born in the subtle atmosphere of your country of Arezzo.
Along with the milk of my nurse I received the knack of handling chisel
and hammer, with which I make my figures." [ 4 ]
Michelangelo's father sent him to study
grammar
with the
Humanist
Francesco da Urbino in Florence as a young boy. [ 4 ] [ 7 ] [b]
The young artist, however, showed no interest in his schooling,
preferring to copy paintings from churches and seek the company of
painters. [ 7 ]
At thirteen, Michelangelo was apprenticed to the painter
Domenico Ghirlandaio . [ 1 ] [ 8 ]
When Michelangelo was only fourteen, his father persuaded Ghirlandaio
to pay his apprentice as an artist, which was highly unusual at the
time. [ 9 ]
When in 1489
Lorenzo de' Medici ,
de facto
ruler of Florence, asked Ghirlandaio for his two best pupils, Ghirlandaio sent Michelangelo and
Francesco Granacci . [ 10 ]
From 1490 to 1492, Michelangelo attended the
Humanist
academy which the Medici had founded along
Neo Platonic
lines. Michelangelo studied sculpture under
Bertoldo di Giovanni . At the academy, both Michelangelo's outlook and his art were subject to the influence of many of the most prominent
philosophers
and writers of the day including
Marsilio Ficino ,
Pico della Mirandola
and
Angelo Poliziano . [ 11 ]
At this time, Michelangelo sculpted the reliefs
Madonna of the Steps
(1490–1492) and
Battle of the Centaurs
(1491–1492). The latter was based on a theme suggested by Poliziano and was commissioned by Lorenzo de
Medici . [ 12 ]
While both were apprenticed to Bertoldo di Giovanni,
Pietro Torrigiano
struck the 17 year old on the nose, and thus caused that disfigurement
which is so conspicuous in all the portraits of Michelangelo. [ 13 ]
Early adulthood
Lorenzo de' Medici's death on 8 April 1492 brought a reversal of Michelangelo's circumstances. [ 14 ]
Michelangelo left the security of the
Medici
court and returned to his father's house. In the following months he carved a
wooden crucifix
(1493), as a gift to the prior of the Florentine church of
Santo Spirito , who had permitted him some studies of
anatomy
on the corpses of the church's hospital. [ 15 ]
Between 1493 and 1494 he bought a block of marble for a larger than life statue of
Hercules , which was sent to France and subsequently disappeared sometime circa 1700s. [ 12 ] [c]
On 20 January 1494, after heavy snowfalls, Lorenzo's heir,
Piero de Medici
commissioned a snow statue, and Michelangelo again entered the court of the Medici.
In the same year, the
Medici
were expelled from Florence as the result of the rise of
Savonarola . Michelangelo left the city before the end of the political upheaval, moving to
Venice
and then to
Bologna . [ 14 ]
In Bologna, he was commissioned to finish the carving of the last small figures of the
Shrine of St. Dominic ,
in the church dedicated to that saint. Towards the end 1494, the
political situation in Florence was calmer. The city, previously under
threat from the French, was no longer in danger as
Charles VIII
had suffered defeats. Michelangelo returned to Florence but received no
commissions from the new city government under Savonarola. He returned
to the employment of the Medici. [ 16 ]
During the half year he spent in Florence he worked on two small statues, a child
St. John the Baptist
and a sleeping
Cupid . According to Condivi,
Lorenzo di Pierfrancesco de' Medici , for whom Michelangelo had sculpted
St. John the Baptist ,
asked that Michelangelo "fix it so that it looked as if it had been
buried" so he could "send it to Rome…pass [it off as] an ancient work
and…sell it much better." Both Lorenzo and Michelangelo were unwittingly
cheated out of the real value of the piece by a middleman. Cardinal
Raffaele Riario ,
to whom Lorenzo had sold it, discovered that it was a fraud, but was so
impressed by the quality of the sculpture that he invited the artist to
Rome. [ 17 ]
[d]
This apparent success in selling his sculpture abroad as well as the
conservative Florentine situation may have encouraged Michelangelo to
accept the prelate's invitation. [ 16 ]
Michelangelo's
Pietà , a depiction of the body of
Jesus
on the lap of his mother
Mary
after the
Crucifixion , was carved in 1499, when the sculptor was 24 years old.
Rome
Michelangelo arrived in Rome 25 June 1496 [ 18 ]
at the age of 21. On 4 July of the same year, he began work on a commission for Cardinal
Raffaele Riario , an over-life-size statue of the Roman wine god,
Bacchus .
However, upon completion, the work was rejected by the cardinal, and
subsequently entered the collection of the banker Jacopo Galli, for his
garden.
In November of 1497, the French ambassador in the Holy See commissioned one of his most famous works, the
Pietà
and the contract was agreed upon in August of the following year. The
contemporary opinion about this work — "a revelation of all the
potentialities and force of the art of sculpture" — was summarized by
Vasari: "It is certainly a miracle that a formless block of stone could
ever have been reduced to a perfection that nature is scarcely able to
create in the flesh."
In Rome, Michelangelo lived near the church of
Santa Maria di Loreto . Here, according to the legend, he fell in love with
Vittoria Colonna , marquise of
Pescara
and a poet. [ citation needed ]
His house was demolished in 1874, and the remaining architectural
elements saved by the new proprietors were destroyed in 1930. Today a
modern reconstruction of Michelangelo's house can be seen on the
Gianicolo
hill. It is also during this period that skeptics allege Michelangelo executed the sculpture
Laocoön and His Sons
which resides in the
Vatican [ 19 ] .
Works
See also:
List of works by Michelangelo
The
Statue of David , completed by Michelangelo in 1504, is one of the most renowned works of the Renaissance.
Statue of David
Main article:
David (Michelangelo)
Michelangelo returned to Florence in 1499–1501. Things were changing in the
republic
after the fall of anti-Renaissance Priest and leader of Florence,
Girolamo Savonarola
(executed in 1498) and the rise of the
gonfaloniere
Pier Soderini . He was asked by the consuls of the Guild of Wool to complete an unfinished project begun 40 years earlier by
Agostino di Duccio :
a colossal statue portraying David as a symbol of Florentine freedom,
to be placed in the Piazza della Signoria, in front of the
Palazzo Vecchio . Michelangelo responded by completing his most famous work, the
Statue of David
in 1504. This masterwork, created out of a marble block from the quarries at
Carrara
that had already been worked on by an earlier hand, definitively
established his prominence as a sculptor of extraordinary technical
skill and strength of symbolic imagination.
Also during this period, Michelangelo painted the
Holy Family and St John , also known as the
Doni Tondo
or the
Holy Family of the Tribune :
it was commissioned for the marriage of Angelo Doni and Maddalena
Strozzi and in the 17th century hung in the room known as the Tribune in
the
Uffizi . He also may have painted the Madonna and Child with
John the Baptist , known as the
Manchester Madonna
and now in the
National Gallery, London .
Sistine Chapel ceiling
Main article:
Sistine Chapel ceiling
Michelangelo painted the ceiling of the
Sistine Chapel ; the work took approximately four years to complete (1508–1512)
In 1505 Michelangelo was invited back to Rome by the newly elected
Pope Julius II . He was commissioned to build the
Pope's tomb .
Under the patronage of the Pope, Michelangelo had to constantly stop
work on the tomb in order to accomplish numerous other tasks. Because of
these interruptions, Michelangelo worked on the tomb for 40 years. The
tomb, of which the central feature is Michelangelo's
statue of Moses , was never finished to Michelangelo's satisfaction. It is located in the
Church of S. Pietro in Vincoli
in Rome.
During the same period, Michelangelo took the commission to paint the
ceiling of the Sistine Chapel, which took approximately four years to
complete (1508–1512). According to Michelangelo's account,
Bramante
and
Raphael
convinced the Pope to commission Michelangelo in a medium not familiar
to the artist. This was done in order that he, Michelangelo, would
suffer unfavorable comparisons with his rival Raphael, who at the time
was at the peak of his own artistry as the primo fresco painter.
However, this story is discounted by modern historians on the grounds of
contemporary evidence, and may merely have been a reflection of the
artist's own perspective.
Michelangelo was originally commissioned to paint the 12 Apostles
against a starry sky, but lobbied for a different and more complex
scheme, representing
creation , the Downfall of Man and the Promise of Salvation through the prophets and Genealogy of
Christ . The work is part of a larger scheme of decoration within the chapel which represents much of the doctrine of the
Catholic Church .
The composition eventually contained over 300 figures and had at its center nine episodes from the
Book of Genesis ,
divided into three groups: God's Creation of the Earth; God's Creation
of Humankind and their fall from God's grace; and lastly, the state of
Humanity as represented by
Noah
and his family. On the pendentives supporting the ceiling are painted
twelve men and women who prophesied the coming of the Jesus. They are
seven
prophets
of Israel and five
Sibyls , prophetic women of the Classical world.
Among the most famous paintings on the ceiling are the
Creation of Adam ,
Adam and Eve
in the
Garden of Eden , the
Great Flood , the Prophet
Isaiah
and the
Cumaean Sibyl . Around the windows are painted the ancestors of Christ.
Under Medici Popes in Florence
Michelangelo's
Moses
(centre) with
Rachel
and
Leah
on his sides.
In 1513 Pope Julius II died and his successor
Pope Leo X , a Medici, commissioned Michelangelo to reconstruct the façade of the
basilica of San Lorenzo in Florence
and to adorn it with sculptures. Michelangelo agreed reluctantly. The
three years he spent in creating drawings and models for the facade, as
well as attempting to open a new marble quarry at Pietrasanta
specifically for the project, were among the most frustrating in his
career, as work was abruptly cancelled by his financially strapped
patrons before any real progress had been made. The basilica lacks a
facade to this day.
Apparently not the least embarrassed by this turnabout, the Medici
later came back to Michelangelo with another grand proposal, this time
for a family funerary chapel in the
basilica of San Lorenzo . Fortunately for posterity, this project, occupying the artist for much of the 1520s and 1530s, was more fully realized.
Michelangelo's
The Last Judgment .
Saint Bartholomew
is shown holding the knife of his martyrdom and his flayed skin. The face of the skin is recognizable as Michelangelo.
In 1527, the Florentine citizens, encouraged by the
sack of Rome , threw out the
Medici
and restored the republic. A siege of the city ensued, and Michelangelo
went to the aid of his beloved Florence by working on the city's
fortifications from 1528 to 1529. The city fell in 1530 and the Medici
were restored to power. Completely out of sympathy with the repressive
reign of the ducal Medici, Michelangelo left Florence for good in the
mid-1530s, leaving assistants to complete the Medici chapel.
Last works in Rome
The
fresco
of
The Last Judgment
on the altar wall of the Sistine Chapel was commissioned by
Pope Clement VII ,
who died shortly after assigning the commission. Paul III was
instrumental in seeing that Michelangelo began and completed the
project. Michelangelo labored on the project from 1534 to October 1541.
The work is massive and spans the entire wall behind the altar of the
Sistine Chapel.
The Last Judgment
is a depiction of the second
coming of Christ and the apocalypse; where the souls of humanity rise
and are assigned to their various fates, as judged by Christ, surrounded
by the Saints.
Once completed, the depictions of nakedness in the papal chapel was considered obscene and sacrilegious, and
Cardinal Carafa
and Monsignor Sernini ( Mantua's
ambassador) campaigned to have the fresco removed or censored, but the
Pope resisted. After Michelangelo's death, it was decided to obscure the
genitals ( "Pictura in Cappella Ap.ca coopriantur" ). So
Daniele da Volterra ,
an apprentice of Michelangelo, was commissioned to cover with perizomas
(briefs) the genitals, leaving unaltered the complex of bodies. When
the work was restored in 1993, the conservators chose not to remove all
the perizomas of Daniele, leaving some of them as a historical document,
and because some of Michelangelo’s work was previously scraped away by
the touch-up artist's application of “decency” to the masterpiece. A
faithful uncensored copy of the original, by
Marcello Venusti , can be seen at the
Capodimonte Museum
of
Naples .
Michelangelo designed the dome of
St. Peter's Basilica , although it was unfinished when he died.
Censorship always followed Michelangelo, once described as "inventor
delle porcherie" ("inventor of obscenities", in the original Italian
language referring to "pork things"). The infamous "fig-leaf campaign"
of the
Counter-Reformation ,
aiming to cover all representations of human genitals in paintings and
sculptures, started with Michelangelo's works. To give two examples, the
marble statue of
Cristo della Minerva
(church of
Santa Maria sopra Minerva , Rome) was covered by added drapery, as it remains today, and the statue of the naked child Jesus in
Madonna of Bruges
(The
Church of Our Lady
in
Bruges , Belgium) remained covered for several decades. Also, the plaster copy of the David in the
Cast Courts (Victoria and Albert Museum)
in London, has a fig leaf in a box at the back of the statue. It was
there to be placed over the statue's genitals so that they would not
upset visiting female royalty.
In 1546, Michelangelo was appointed architect of
St. Peter's Basilica
in the Vatican, and designed its dome. As St. Peter's was progressing
there was concern that Michelangelo would pass away before the dome was
finished. However, once building commenced on the lower part of the
dome, the supporting ring, the completion of the design was inevitable.
Michelangelo died in Rome in the age of 88 (three weeks before 89th
birthday). His body was brought back from Rome for interment at the
Basilica di Santa Croce , fulfilling the maestro's last request to be buried in his beloved
Tuscany .
Last sketch found
On 7 December 2007, Michelangelo's red chalk sketch for the dome of
St Peter's Basilica, his last before his death in 1564, was discovered
in the Vatican archives. It is extremely rare, since he destroyed his
designs later in life. The sketch is a partial plan for one of the
radial columns of the cupola drum of Saint Peter's. [ 20 ]
Architectural work
Michelangelo's own tomb, at
Basilica di Santa Croce di Firenze , Florence
Michelangelo worked on many projects that had been started by other men, most notably in his work at
St Peter's Basilica , Rome. The
Campidoglio , designed by Michelangelo during the same period, rationalized the structures and spaces of Rome's
Capitoline Hill .
Its shape, more a rhomboid than a square, was intended to counteract
the effects of perspective. The major Florentine architectural projects
by Michelangelo are the unexecuted façade for the
Basilica of San Lorenzo, Florence
and the Medici Chapel ( Capella Medicea ) and
Laurentian Library
there, and the fortifications of Florence. The major Roman projects are St. Peter's,
Palazzo Farnese ,
San Giovanni dei Fiorentini , the Sforza Chapel ( Capella Sforza ) in the
Basilica di Santa Maria Maggiore ,
Porta Pia
and
Santa Maria degli Angeli .
Laurentian Library
Around 1530 Michelangelo designed the
Laurentian Library
in Florence, attached to the church of San Lorenzo. He produced new styles such as
pilasters
tapering thinner at the bottom, and a staircase with contrasting rectangular and curving forms.
Medici Chapel
Main article:
Medici Chapel
Michelangelo designed the
Medici Chapel
and in fact used his own discretion to create its composition. The
Medici Chapel has monuments in it dedicated to certain members of the
Medici family. Michelangelo never finished the project, so his pupils
later completed it.
Lorenzo the Magnificent
was buried at the entrance wall of the Medici Chapel. Sculptures of the
"Madonna and Child" and the Medici patron saints Cosmas and Damian were
set over his burial. The "madonna and child" was Michelangelo's own
work. The concealed corridor with wall drawings of Michelangelo under
the New Sacristy discovered in 1976.
[ 21 ]
Personality
Michelangelo, who was often arrogant with others and constantly
dissatisfied with himself, saw art as originating from inner inspiration
and from culture. In contradiction to the ideas of his rival,
Leonardo da Vinci ,
Michelangelo saw nature as an enemy that had to be overcome. The
figures that he created are forceful and dynamic, each in its own space
apart from the outside world. For Michelangelo, the job of the sculptor
was to free the forms that were already inside the stone. He believed
that every stone had a sculpture within it, and that the work of
sculpting was simply a matter of chipping away all that was not a part
of the statue. [ citation needed ]
Several
anecdotes
reveal that Michelangelo's skill, especially in sculpture, was greatly
admired in his own time. Another Lorenzo de Medici wanted to use
Michelangelo to make some money. He had Michelangelo sculpt a Cupid that
looked worn and old. Lorenzo paid Michelangelo 30 ducats, but sold the
Cupid for 200 ducats. Cardinal Raffaele Riario became suspicious and
sent someone to investigate. The man had Michelangelo do a sketch for
him of a Cupid, and then told Michelangelo that while he received 30
ducats for his Cupid, Lorenzo had passed the Cupid off for an antique
and sold it for 200 ducats. Michelangelo then confessed that he had done
the Cupid, but had no idea that he had been cheated. After the truth
was revealed, the Cardinal later took this as proof of his skill and
commissioned his
Bacchus . Another better-known anecdote claims that when finishing
the Moses
( San Pietro in Vincoli , Rome), Michelangelo violently hit the knee of the statue with a hammer, shouting, "Why don't you speak to me?" [ citation needed ]
In his personal life, Michelangelo was abstemious. He told his apprentice,
Ascanio Condivi : "However rich I may have been, I have always lived like a poor man." [ 22 ]
Condivi said he was indifferent to food and drink, eating "more out of necessity than of pleasure" [ 22 ]
and that he "often slept in his clothes and ... boots." [ 22 ]
These habits may have made him unpopular. His biographer
Paolo Giovio
says, "His nature was so rough and uncouth that his domestic habits
were incredibly squalid, and deprived posterity of any pupils who might
have followed him." [ 23 ]
He may not have minded, since he was by nature a solitary and melancholy person. He had a reputation for being
bizzarro e fantastico
because he "withdrew himself from the company of men."
[ 24 ]
Sexuality
Drawing for
The Libyan Sybil , New York City,
Metropolitan Museum of Art
The Libyan Sybil ,
Sistine Chapel , accomplished.
While clearly having a keen appreciation for the nude form resurgent
in the Renaissance, fundamental to Michelangelo's art is his love of
male beauty which seems to have particularly attracted him both
aesthetically and emotionally. In part, this was an expression of the
Renaissance idealization of masculinity. But in Michelangelo's art there
is clearly a sensual response to this aesthetic. [ 25 ]
The sculptor's expressions of love have been characterized as both
Neoplatonic
and openly
homoerotic ; recent scholarship seeks an interpretation which respects both readings, yet is wary of drawing absolute conclusions. [ citation needed ]
One example of the conundrum is
Cecchino dei Bracci , whose death, only a year after their meeting in 1543, inspired the writing of forty eight funeral
epigrams , which by some accounts allude to a relationship that was not only romantic but physical as well:
La carne terra, e qui l'ossa mia, prive de' lor begli occhi, e del leggiadro aspetto fan fede a quel ch'i' fu grazia nel letto, che abbracciava, e' n che l'anima vive. [ 26 ]
The flesh now earth, and here my bones, Bereft of handsome eyes, and jaunty air, Still loyal are to him I joyed in bed, Whom I embraced, in whom my soul now lives.
According to others, they represent an emotionless and elegant
re-imagining of Platonic dialogue, whereby erotic poetry was seen as an
expression of refined sensibilities (Indeed, it must be remembered that
professions of love in 16th century Italy were given a far wider
application than now). [ 27 ]
Some young men were street wise and took advantage of the sculptor.
Febo di Poggio , in 1532, peddled his charms—in answer to Michelangelo's love poem he asks for money. Earlier,
Gherardo Perini ,
in 1522, had stolen from him shamelessly. Michelangelo defended his
privacy above all. When an employee of his friend Niccolò Quaratesi
offered his son as apprentice suggesting that he would be good even in
bed, Michelangelo refused indignantly, suggesting Quaratesi fire the
man.
The greatest written expression of his love was given to
Tommaso dei Cavalieri
(c. 1509–1587), who was 23 years old when Michelangelo met him in 1532,
at the age of 57. Cavalieri was open to the older man's affection:
I
swear to return your love. Never have I loved a man more than I love
you, never have I wished for a friendship more than I wish for yours.
Cavalieri remained devoted to Michelangelo until his death.
Michelangelo dedicated to him over three hundred sonnets and
madrigals ,
constituting the largest sequence of poems that he composed. Some
modern commentators assert that the relationship was merely a Platonic
affection, even suggesting that Michelangelo was seeking a surrogate
son. [ 28 ]
However, their homoerotic nature was recognized in his own time, so
that a decorous veil was drawn across them by his grand nephew,
Michelangelo the Younger, who published an edition of the poetry in 1623
with the gender of pronouns changed.
John Addington Symonds ,
the early British homosexual activist, undid this change by translating
the original sonnets into English and writing a two-volume biography,
published in 1893.
A
Ignudo , Sistine Chapel.
The sonnets are the first large sequence of poems in any modern tongue addressed by one man to another, predating
Shakespeare 's
sonnets
to his young friend by fifty years.
I feel as lit by fire a cold countenance That burns me from afar and keeps itself ice-chill; A strength I feel two shapely arms to fill Which without motion moves every balance.
— (Michael Sullivan, translation)
Late in life he nurtured a great love for the poet and noble widow
Vittoria Colonna ,
whom he met in Rome in 1536 or 1538 and who was in her late forties at
the time. They wrote sonnets for each other and were in regular contact
until she died.
It is impossible to know for certain whether Michelangelo had physical relationships ( Condivi
ascribed to him a "monk-like chastity"), [ 29 ]
but through his poetry and visual art we may at least glimpse the arc of his imagination. [ 30 ]
See also
List of works by Michelangelo Michelangelo phenomenon Renaissance painting Restoration of the Sistine Chapel frescoes Medici Chapel
The asteroid
3001 Michelangelo
and a crater on the planet
Mercury
were named after Michelangelo. [ 31 ]
The character
Michelangelo
from
Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles
was named after Michelangelo.
The 1965 film
The Agony and the Ecstasy
features the story of Michelangelo and his travails in painting the
Sistine Chapel . He is portrayed in the film by
Charlton Heston .
Footnotes
a.
^
Michelangelo's father marks the date as 6 March 1474 in the Florentine manner
ab Incarnatione . However, in the Roman manner,
ab Nativitate , it is 1475. b.
^
Sources disagree as to how old Michelangelo was when he departed for
school. De Tolnay writes that it was at ten years old while Sedgwick
notes in her translation of Condivi that Michelangelo was seven. c.
^
The
Strozzi family
acquired the sculpture
Hercules .
Filippo Strozzi
sold it to
Francis I
in 1529. In 1594,
Henry IV
installed it in the Jardin d'Estang at
Fontainebleau
where it disappeared in 1713 when the Jardin d'Estange was destroyed. d.
^
Vasari makes no mention of this episode and
Paolo Giovio 's
Life of Michelangelo
indicates that Michelangelo tried to pass the statue off as an antique himself.
References
Notes
^
a
b
c
"Web Gallery of Art, image collection, virtual museum, searchable database of European fine arts (1100–1850)" . www.wga.hu .
http://www.wga.hu/frames-e.html?/bio/m/michelan/biograph.html . Retrieved 13 June 2008 .
^
a
b
Michelangelo. (2008). Encyclopædia Britannica.
Ultimate Reference Suite . ^
Emison, Patricia. A (2004).
Creating the "Divine Artist": from Dante to Michelangelo . Brill.
ISBN
9789004137097 .
http://books.google.com/?id=1EofecqX_vsC&pg=PA144&lpg=PA144&dq=michelangelo+%22il+divino%22 .
^
a
b
c
J. de Tolnay,
The Youth of Michelangelo , 11 ^
a
b
C. Clément,
Michelangelo , 5 ^
A. Condivi,
The Life of Michelangelo , 5 ^
a
b
A. Condivi,
The Life of Michelangelo , 9 ^
R. Liebert,
Michelangelo: A Psychoanalytic Study of his Life and Images , 59 ^
C. Clément,
Michelangelo , 7 ^
C. Clément,
Michelangelo , 9 ^
J. de Tolnay,
The Youth of Michelangelo , 18–19 ^
a
b
A. Condivi,
The Life of Michelangelo , 15 ^
"Will the Real Michelangelo Please Stand Up?" .
http://arthistory.about.com/b/2008/07/27/will-the-real-michelangelo-please-stand-up.htm . Retrieved 14 December 2009 .
^
a
b
J. de Tolnay,
The Youth of Michelangelo , 20–21 ^
A. Condivi,
The Life of Michelangelo , 17 ^
a
b
J. de Tolnay,
The Youth of Michelangelo , 24–25 ^
A. Condivi,
The Life of Michelangelo , 19–20 ^
J. de Tolnay,
The Youth of Michelangelo , 26–28 ^
Catterson, Lynn. "Michelangelo's 'Laocoön?'" Artibus et historiae. 52. 2005: p. 33 ^
"Michelangelo 'last sketch' found" . BBC News. 7 December 2007 .
http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/europe/7133116.stm . Retrieved 9 February 2009 .
^
Peter Barenboim, "Michelangelo Drawings - Key to the Medici Chapel Interpretation", Moscow, Letny Sad, 2006,
ISBN 5-98856-016-4 ^
a
b
c
Condivi,
The Life of Michelangelo , p. 106. ^
Paola Barocchi (ed.)
Scritti d'arte del cinquecento , Milan, 1971; vol. I p. 10. ^
Condivi,
The Life of Michelangelo , p. 102. ^
Hughes, Anthony: "Michelangelo"., page 327. Phaidon, 1997. ^
"Michelangelo Buonarroti"
by Giovanni Dall'Orto Babilonia n. 85, January 1991, pp. 14–16
(Italian) ^
Hughes, Anthony: "Michelangelo.", page 326. Phaidon, 1997. ^
"Michelangelo",
The New Encyclopaedia Britannica, Macropaedia, Volume 24 ,
page 58, 1991. The text goes so far as to claim, a bit defensively,
'These have naturally been interpreted as indications that Michelangelo
was a homosexual, but such a reaction according to the artist's own
statement would be that of the ignorant'. ^
Hughes, Anthony, "Michelangelo"., page 326. Phaidon, 1997. ^
Scigliano, Eric:
"Michelangelo's Mountain; The Quest for Perfection in the Marble Quarries of Carrara." , Simon and Schuster, 2005. Retrieved 27 January 2007 ^
Gallant, R., 1986.
National Geographic Picture Atlas of Our Universe . National Geographic Society, 2nd edition.
ISBN 0870446444
[ edit ]
Further reading
Wikiquote
has a collection of quotations related to:
Michelangelo
Ackerman, James (1986).
The Architecture of Michelangelo . University of Chicago Press.
ISBN
978-0226002408 .
Clément, Charles (1892).
Michelangelo . Harvard University, Digitized 25 June 2007: S. Low, Marston, Searle, & Rivington, ltd.: London .
http://books.google.com/?id=G-sDAAAAYAAJ&printsec=frontcover&dq=michelangelo .
Condivi, Ascanio ; Alice Sedgewick (1553).
The Life of Michelangelo . Pennsylvania State University Press.
ISBN
0-271-01853-4 .
Baldini, Umberto; Liberto Perugi (1982).
The Sculpture of Michelangelo . Rizzoli.
ISBN
0-8478-0447-x .
http://books.google.com/?id=pCEWAQAAIAAJ .
Einem, Herbert von (1973).
Michelangelo . Trans. Ronald Taylor. London: Methuen. Gilbert, Creighton (1994).
Michelangelo On and Off the Sistine Ceiling . New York: George Braziller. Hibbard, Howard (1974).
Michelangelo . New York: Harper & Row. Hirst, Michael and Jill Dunkerton. (1994)
The Young Michelangelo: The Artist in Rome 1496–1501 . London: National Gallery Publications. Liebert, Robert (1983).
Michelangelo: A Psychoanalytic Study of his Life and Images . New Haven and London: Yale University Press.
ISBN
0-300-02793-1 .
Pietrangeli, Carlo, et al. (1994).
The Sistine Chapel: A Glorious Restoration . New York: Harry N. Abrams Sala, Charles (1996).
Michelangelo: Sculptor, Painter, Architect . Editions Pierre Terrail.
ISBN
978-2879390697 .
Saslow, James M. (1991).
The Poetry of Michelangelo: An Annotated Translation . New Haven and London: Yale University Press. Rolland, Romain
(2009).
Michelangelo . BiblioLife.
ISBN
1110003536 .
Seymour, Charles, Jr. (1972).
Michelangelo: The Sistine Chapel Ceiling . New York: W. W. Norton. Stone, Irving
(1987).
The Agony and the Ecstasy . Signet.
ISBN
0-451-17135-7 .
Summers, David (1981).
Michelangelo and the Language of Art . Princeton University Press. Tolnay, Charles (1947).
The Youth of Michelangelo . Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press.
Tolnay, Charles de. (1964).
The Art and Thought of Michelangelo . 5 vols. New York: Pantheon Books. Néret, Gilles (2000).
Michelangelo . Taschen.
ISBN
9783822859766 .
Wilde, Johannes (1978).
Michelangelo: Six Lectures . Oxford: Clarendon Press.
External links
Wikimedia Commons has media related to:
Michelangelo Buonarroti
Where to find Michelangelo's works in Florence "The Divine Michelangelo - Timeline of Michelangelo's Life and Major Works" Michelangelo in the "A World History of Art" Michelangelo in the "Vatican Secret Archives" Photographs of details at the Campidoglio Works by Michelangelo Buonarroti
at
Project Gutenberg The Digital Michelangelo Project The BP Special Exhibition Michelangelo Drawings — closer to the master Michelangelo's Drawings: Real or Fake?
How to decide if a drawing is by Michelangelo. Models he used to make his sculptures and paintings "The Michelangelo Code" , suggesting Michelangelo's coded use of his knowledge of anatomy. "Michelangelo: The Man and the Myth"
Authority control :
LCCN :
n80152368
[ hide ]
v
•
d
•
e
Michelangelo
Sculptures
Head of a faun
(c. 1488) •
Madonna of the stairs
(c. 1491) •
Battle of the Centaurs
(c. 1492) •
Crucifix
(1492) •
The Ark of St Dominic :
St Petronius
(1494–95) ,
St Proclus
(1494–95)
and
Angel
(1494–95) •
Sleeping Cupid
(1496) •
Standing Cupid
•
Bacchus
(1496–97) •
Pietà
(1499–1500) •
David
(1501-04) •
Madonna of Bruges
(1501–04) •
St. Paul
(1503–04) •
St. Peter
(1503–04) •
Pius
(1503–04) •
Taddei Tondo
(c. 1503) •
Pitti Tondo
(c. 1503) •
St. Matthew
(c. 1505) •
Tomb of
Pope Julius II
(1503) •
Moses
(c. 1513–15) •
Rebellious Slave
(1513–16) •
Dying Slave
(1513–16) •
Medici Chapel
(1520–34) •
The Genius of Victory
(c. 1532–34) •
Rachel
(1545) •
Leah
(1545) •
Tomb of Giuliano de' Medici
•
Tomb of Lorenzo de' Medici
•
Virgin and Child
•
Apollo (David)
(c. 1530) •
Crouching Boy
(c. 1530-34) •
Cristo della Minerva (Christ Carrying the Cross)
(1519–20) •
Brutus
(1540) •
Palestrina Pietà
(1550) •
Florentine Pietà
(c. 1550) •
Rondanini Pietà
(1552–64)
Paintings
Panel paintings
The Torment of Saint Anthony
(c. 1487-88)
•
Manchester Madonna
(c. 1497) •
Doni Tondo
(c. 1503–06) •
The Entombment
(c. 1505)
Lost paintings
Battle of Cascina
(1504)
•
Leda and the Swan
(1530)
Sistine Chapel
frescoes
Ceiling
(1508–12)
(including
The Creation of Adam , 1511)
•
The Last Judgment
(1534–41)
Pauline Chapel
frescoes
The Martyrdom of St Peter
(1542–50) •
The Conversion of Saul
(1542–50)
Architecture
Florence
New Sacristy
(1520–34)
and
Laurentian Library
(1523–59)
in the
Basilica of San Lorenzo
Rome
Piazza del Campidoglio
(1538) •
Palazzo Farnese
(1546) •
St. Peter's Basilica
(1546–1564) •
San Giovanni dei Fiorentini
(1559–60) •
Porta Pia
(1561–65) •
Santa Maria degli Angeli e dei Martiri
(1561–)
Works on paper
Epifania
(1550–53)
Milieu
Cecchino dei Bracci
•
Tommaso dei Cavalieri
•
Vittoria Colonna
•
Ascanio Condivi
•
Febo di Poggio
•
Luigi del Riccio
•
Gherardo Perini Raphael
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Raphael
Portrait of Raphael. [ 1 ]
Birth name
Raffaello Sanzio da Urbino
Born
March 28, 1483 ( 1483-03-28 )
or April 6, 1483 ( 1483-04-06 ) Urbino ,
Marche
Died
April 6, 1520 (aged 37) Rome ,
Italy
Nationality
Italian
Field
Painting and architecture
Movement
High Renaissance
Raffaello Sanzio da Urbino [ 2 ]
(April 6 or March 28, 1483 – April 6, 1520 [ 3 ] ), better known simply as
Raphael , was an
Italian
painter
and
architect
of the
High Renaissance , celebrated for the perfection and grace of his paintings and drawings. Together with
Michelangelo
and
Leonardo da Vinci , he forms the traditional trinity of great masters of that period. [ 4 ]
Raphael was enormously productive, running an unusually large
workshop, and despite his death at thirty-seven, a large body of his
work remains.
The School of Athens , 1511–12, in the
Stanza della Segnatura .
Many of his works are found in the
Apostolic Palace
of
The Vatican , where the frescoed
Raphael Rooms
were the central, and the largest, work of his career. The best known work is the
The School of Athens
in the Vatican
Stanza della Segnatura .
After his early years in Rome, much of his work was designed by him and
executed largely by the workshop from his drawings, with considerable
loss of quality.
He was extremely influential in his lifetime, though outside Rome his work was mostly known from his collaborative
printmaking .
After his death, the influence of his great rival Michelangelo was more
widespread until the 18th and 19th centuries, when Raphael's more
serene and harmonious qualities were again regarded as the highest
models.
His career falls naturally into three phases and three styles, first described by
Giorgio Vasari : his early years in
Umbria , then a period of about four years (from 1504–1508) absorbing the artistic traditions of
Florence , followed by his last hectic and triumphant twelve years in
Rome , working for two Popes and their close associates. [ 5 ]
Contents
1
Urbino 2
Early life and work 3
Influence of Florence 4
Roman period
4.1
The Vatican "Stanze" 4.2
Other projects
5
Workshop
5.1
Portraits
6
Architecture 7
Drawings 8
Printmaking 9
Private life and death 10
Critical reception 11
See also 12
Notes 13
Main references 14
Further reading 15
External links
Urbino
Giovanni Santi , Raphael's father;
Christ supported by two angels , c.1490
Raphael was born in the small but artistically significant Central Italian city of
Urbino
in the
Marche
region, [ 6 ]
where his father
Giovanni Santi
was court painter to the Duke. The reputation of the court had been established by
Federico III da Montefeltro , a highly successful
condottiere
who had been created
Duke of Urbino
by
the Pope —Urbino formed part of the
Papal States —and
who died the year before Raphael was born. The emphasis of Federico's
court was rather more literary than artistic, but Giovanni Santi was a
poet of sorts as well as a painter, and had written a rhymed chronicle
of the life of Federico, and both wrote the texts and produced the decor
for
masque -like
court entertainments. His poem to Federico shows him as keen to show
awareness of the most advanced North Italian painters, and
Early Netherlandish artists
as well. In the very small court of Urbino he was probably more
integrated into the central family circle than most court painters. [ 7 ]
Federico was succeeded by his son
Guidobaldo da Montefeltro , who married
Elisabetta Gonzaga , daughter of the ruler of
Mantua ,
the most brilliant of the smaller Italian courts for both music and the
visual arts. Under them, the court continued as a centre for literary
culture. Growing up in the circle of this small court gave Raphael the
excellent manners and social skills stressed by Vasari. [ 8 ]
Court life in Urbino at just after this period was to become set as the model of the virtues of the Italian humanist court by
Baldassare Castiglione 's depiction of it in his classic work
The Book of the Courtier ,
published in 1528. Castiglione moved to Urbino in 1504, when Raphael
was no longer based there but frequently visited, and they became good
friends. Other regular visitors to the court were also to become great
friends:
Pietro Bibbiena
and
Pietro Bembo , both later
Cardinals ,
were already becoming well known as writers, and would be in Rome
during Raphael's period there. Raphael mixed easily in the highest
circles throughout his life, one of the factors that tended to give a
misleading impression of effortlessness to his career. He did not
receive a full
humanistic education
however; it is unclear how easily he read Latin. [ 9 ]
Early life and work
Probable self-portrait drawing by Raphael in his teens
His mother Màgia died in 1491 when Raphael was eight, followed on
August 1, 1494 by his father, who had already remarried. Orphaned at
eleven, Raphael's formal guardian became his only paternal uncle
Bartolomeo, a priest, who subsequently engaged in litigation with his
stepmother. He probably continued to live with his stepmother when not
living as an apprentice with a master. He had already shown talent,
according to
Giorgio Vasari , who tells that Raphael had been "a great help to his father". [ 10 ]
A brilliant
self-portrait
drawing from his teenage years shows his precocious talent. [ 11 ]
His father's workshop continued and, probably together with his
stepmother, Raphael evidently played a part in managing it from a very
early age. In Urbino, he came into contact with the works of
Paolo Uccello , previously the court painter (d. 1475), and
Luca Signorelli , who until 1498 was based in nearby
Città di Castello . [ 12 ]
According to Vasari, his father placed him in the workshop of the Umbrian master Pietro
Perugino
as an apprentice "despite the tears of his mother". The evidence of an
apprenticeship comes only from Vasari and another source, [ 13 ]
and has been disputed — eight was very early for an apprenticeship to
begin. An alternative theory is that he received at least some training
from
Timoteo Viti , who acted as court painter in Urbino from 1495. [ 14 ]
But most modern historians agree that Raphael at least worked as an
assistant to Perugino from around 1500; the influence of Perugino on
Raphael's early work is very clear: "probably no other pupil of genius
has ever absorbed so much of his master's teaching as Raphael did",
according to Wölfflin. [ 15 ]
Vasari wrote that it was impossible to distinguish their hands at this period, but many modern
art historians
claim to do better and detect his hand in specific areas of works by
Perugino or his workshop. Apart from stylistic closeness, their
techniques are very similar as well, for example having paint applied
thickly, using an oil varnish medium, in shadows and darker garments,
but very thinly on flesh areas. An excess of resin in the varnish often
causes cracking of areas of paint in the works of both masters. [ 16 ]
The Perugino workshop was active in both
Perugia
and
Florence , perhaps maintaining two permanent branches. [ 17 ]
Raphael is described as a "master", that is to say fully trained, in 1501.
His first documented work was the
Baronci altarpiece
for the church of Saint
Nicholas of Tolentino
in Città di Castello, a town halfway between Perugia and Urbino.
Evangelista da Pian di Meleto, who had worked for his father, was also
named in the commission. It was commissioned in 1500 and finished in
1501; now only some cut sections and a preparatory drawing remain. [ 18 ]
In the following years he painted works for other churches there, including the " Mond Crucifixion " (about 1503) and the
Brera
Wedding of the Virgin
(1504), and for Perugia, such as the
Oddi Altarpiece . He very probably also visited Florence in this period. These are large works, some in
fresco ,
where Raphael confidently marshalls his compositions in the somewhat
static style of Perugino. He also painted many small and exquisite
cabinet paintings
in these years, probably mostly for the connoisseurs in the Urbino court, like the
Three Graces
and
St. Michael , and he began to paint
Madonnas
and portraits. [ 19 ]
In 1502 he went to
Siena
at the invitation of another pupil of
Perugino ,
Pinturicchio , "being a friend of Raphael and knowing him to be a draughtsman of the highest quality" to help with the
cartoons , and very likely the designs, for a fresco series in the
Piccolomini Library
in
Siena Cathedral . [ 20 ]
He was evidently already much in demand even at this early stage in his career.
The
Mond Crucifixion , 1502-3, very much in the style of
Perugino
The
Coronation of the Virgin
1502-3
The
Wedding of the Virgin , Raphael's most sophisticated altarpiece of this period.
Saint George and the Dragon , a small work (29 x 21 cm) for the court of Urbino.
Influence of Florence
Raphael led a "nomadic" life, working in various centres in Northern
Italy, but spent a good deal of time in Florence, perhaps from about
1504. However, although there is traditional reference to a "Florentine
period" of about 1504-8, he was possibly never a continuous resident
there. [ 21 ]
He may have needed to visit the city to secure materials in any case.
There is a letter of recommendation of Raphael, dated October 1504, from
the mother of the next Duke of Urbino to the
Gonfaloniere of Florence :
"The bearer of this will be found to be Raphael, painter of Urbino,
who, being greatly gifted in his profession has determined to spend some
time in Florence to study. And because his father was most worthy and I
was very attached to him, and the son is a sensible and well-mannered
young man, on both accounts, I bear him great love...". [ 22 ]
As earlier with Perugino and others, Raphael was able to assimilate
the influence of Florentine art, whilst keeping his own developing
style. Frescos in Perugia of about 1505 show a new monumental quality in
the figures which may represent the influence of
Fra Bartolomeo , who Vasari says was a friend of Raphael. But the most striking influence in the work of these years is
Leonardo da Vinci ,
who returned to the city from 1500 to 1506. Raphael's figures begin to
take more dynamic and complex positions, and though as yet his painted
subjects are still mostly tranquil, he made drawn studies of fighting
nude men, one of the obsessions of the period in Florence. Another
drawing is a portrait of a young woman that uses the three-quarter
length pyramidal composition of the just-completed " Mona Lisa ", but still looks completely Raphaelesque. Another of Leonardo's compositional inventions, the pyramidal
Holy Family , was repeated in a series of works that remain among his most famous easel paintings. There is a drawing by Raphael in the
Royal Collection
of
Leonardo's lost
Leda and the Swan , from which he adapted the
contrapposto
pose of his own
Saint Catherine of Alexandria . [ 23 ]
He also perfects his own version of Leonardo's
sfumato
modelling, to give subtlety to his painting of flesh, and develops the
interplay of glances between his groups, which are much less enigmatic
than those of Leonardo. But he keeps the soft clear light of Perugino in
his paintings. [ 24 ]
Leonardo was more than thirty years older than Raphael, but
Michelangelo, who was in Rome for this period, was just eight years his
senior. Michelangelo already disliked Leonardo, and in Rome came to
dislike Raphael even more, attributing conspiracies against him to the
younger man. [ 25 ]
Raphael would have been aware of his works in Florence, but in his most
original work of these years, he strikes out in a different direction.
His
Deposition of Christ
draws on classical
sarcophagi
to spread the figures across the front of the picture space in a
complex and not wholly successful arrangement. Wöllflin detects the
influence of the Madonna in Michelangelo's
Doni Tondo
in the kneeling figure on the right, but the rest of the composition is
far removed from his style, or that of Leonardo. Though highly regarded
at the time, and much later forcibly removed from Perugia by the
Borghese , it stands rather alone in Raphael's work. His classicism would later take a less literal direction. [ 26 ]
The
Ansidei Altarpiece , ca. 1505, beginning to move on from Perugino
The
Madonna of the Meadow , ca. 1506, using Leonardo's pyramidal composition for subjects of the Holy Family. [ 27 ]
Saint Catherine of Alexandria , 1507, borrows from the pose of Leonardo's
Leda [ 28 ]
Deposition of Christ , 1507, drawing from Roman sarcophagi.
Roman period
The Vatican "Stanze"
By the end of 1508, he had moved to Rome, where he lived for the rest of his life. He was invited by the new
Pope Julius II , perhaps at the suggestion of his architect
Donato Bramante , then engaged on St. Peter's, who came from just outside Urbino and was distantly related to Raphael. [ 29 ]
Unlike Michelangelo, who had been kept hanging around in Rome for several months after his first summons, [ 30 ]
Raphael was immediately commissioned by Julius to fresco what was intended to become the Pope's private library at the
Vatican Palace . [ 31 ]
This was a much larger and more important commission than any he had
received before; he had only painted one altarpiece in Florence itself.
Several other artists and their teams of assistants were already at work
on different rooms, many painting over recently completed paintings
commissioned by Julius's loathed predecessor,
Alexander VI , whose contributions, and
arms , Julius was determined to efface from the palace. [ 32 ]
Michelangelo, meanwhile, had been commissioned to paint the
Sistine Chapel ceiling .
The Parnassus , 1511,
Stanza della Segnatura
This first of the famous "Stanze" or " Raphael Rooms " to be painted, now always known as the
Stanza della Segnatura
after its use in Vasari's time, was to make a stunning impact on Roman
art, and remains generally regarded as his greatest masterpiece,
containing
The School of Athens ,
The Parnassus
and the
Disputa .
Raphael was then given further rooms to paint, displacing other artists
including Perugino and Signorelli. He completed a sequence of three
rooms, each with paintings on each wall and often the ceilings too,
increasingly leaving the work of painting from his detailed drawings to
the large and skilled workshop team he had acquired, who added a fourth
room, probably only including some elements designed by Raphael, after
his early death in 1520. The death of Julius in 1513 did not interrupt
the work at all, as he was succeeded by Raphael's last Pope, the
Medici
Pope Leo X , with whom Raphael formed an even closer relationship, and who continued to commission him. [ 33 ]
Raphael's friend Cardinal Bibbiena was also one of Leo's old tutors, and a close friend and advisor.
Raphael was clearly influenced by Michelangelo's Sistine Chapel
ceiling in the course of painting the room. Vasari said Bramante let him
in secretly, and the scaffolding was taken down in 1511 from the first
completed section. The reaction of other artists to the daunting force
of Michelangelo was the dominating question in Italian art for the
following few decades, and Raphael, who had already shown his gift for
absorbing influences into his own personal style, rose to the challenge
perhaps better than any other artist. One of the first and clearest
instances was the portrait in
The School of Athens
of Michelangelo himself, as
Heraclitus , which seems to draw clearly from the Sybils and
ignudi
of the Sistine ceiling. Other figures in that and later paintings in
the room show the same influences, but as still cohesive with a
development of Raphael's own style. [ 34 ]
Michelangelo accused Raphael of plagiarism and years after Raphael's
death, complained in a letter that "everything he knew about art he got
from me", although other quotations show more generous reactions. [ 35 ]
These very large and complex compositions have been regarded ever since as among the supreme works of the
grand manner
of the High Renaissance, and the "classic art" of the post-antique West. They give a highly
idealised
depiction of the forms represented, and the compositions, though very carefully conceived in
drawings ,
achieve "sprezzatura", a term invented by his friend Castiglione, who
defined it as "a certain nonchalance which conceals all artistry and
makes whatever one says or does seem uncontrived and effortless ...". [ 36 ]
According to
Michael Levey , "Raphael gives his [figures] a superhuman clarity and grace in a universe of Euclidian certainties". [ 37 ]
The painting is nearly all of the highest quality in the first two
rooms, but the later compositions in the Stanze, especially those
involving dramatic action, are not entirely as successful either in
conception or their execution by the workshop.
Stanza della Segnatura
The Mass at Bolsena , 1514, Stanza di Eliodoro
Deliverance of Saint Peter , 1514, Stanza di Eliodoro
The Fire in the Borgo , 1514, Stanza dell'incendio del Borgo, painted by the workshop to Raphael's design.
Other projects
The Vatican projects took most of his time, although he painted
several portraits, including those of his two main patrons, the popes
Julius II
and his successor
Leo X ,
the former considered one of his finest. Other portraits were of his
own friends, like Castiglione, or the immediate Papal circle. Other
rulers pressed for work, and King
Francis I of France
was sent two paintings as diplomatic gifts from the Pope. [ 38 ]
For
Agostino Chigi , the hugely rich banker and Papal Treasurer, he painted the
Galatea
and designed further decorative frescoes for his
Villa Farnesina , and painted two chapels in the churches of
Santa Maria della Pace
and
Santa Maria del Popolo . He also designed some of the decoration for the Villa Madama, the work in both villas being executed by his workshop.
One of his most important papal commissions was the
Raphael Cartoons
(now
Victoria and Albert Museum ), a series of 10
cartoons , of which seven survive, for tapestries with scenes of the lives of
Saint Paul
and
Saint Peter , for the
Sistine Chapel . The cartoons were sent to
Brussels
to be woven in the workshop of
Pier van Aelst . It is possible that Raphael saw the finished series before his death—they were probably completed in 1520. [ 39 ]
He also designed and painted the
Loggia
at the Vatican, a long thin gallery then open to a courtyard on one side, decorated with Roman-style
grottesche . [ 40 ]
He produced a number of significant altarpieces, including
The Ecstasy of St. Cecilia
and the
Sistine Madonna . His last work, on which he was working up to his death, was a large
Transfiguration , which together with
Il Spasimo
shows the direction his art was taking in his final years—more proto- Baroque
than
Mannerist . [ 41 ]
Galatea ,1512, his only major mythology, for Chigi's villa.
The Miraculous Draught of Fishes , 1515, one of the seven remaining
Raphael Cartoons
for tapestries.
Il Spasimo
1517, brings a new degree of expressiveness to his art.
Transfiguration , 1520, unfinished at his death.
Workshop
Vasari says that Raphael eventually had a workshop of fifty pupils
and assistants, many of whom later became significant artists in their
own right. This was arguably the largest workshop team assembled under
any single
old master
painter, and much higher than the norm. They included established
masters from other parts of Italy, probably working with their own teams
as sub-contractors, as well as pupils and journeymen. We have very
little evidence of the internal working arrangements of the workshop,
apart from the works of art themselves, often very difficult to assign
to a particular hand. [ 42 ]
The most important figures were
Giulio Romano , a young pupil from Rome (only about twenty-one at Raphael's death), and
Gianfrancesco Penni ,
already a Florentine master. They were left many of Raphael's drawings
and other possessions, and to some extent continued the workshop after
Raphael's death. Penni did not achieve a personal reputation equal to
Giulio's, as after Raphael's death he became Giulio's less-than-equal
collaborator in turn for much of his subsequent career.
Perino del Vaga , already a master, and
Polidoro da Caravaggio ,
who was supposedly promoted from a labourer carrying building materials
on the site, also became notable painters in their own right.
Polidoro's partner,
Maturino da Firenze , has, like Penni, been overshadowed in subsequent reputation by his partner.
Giovanni da Udine
had a more independent status, and was responsible for the decorative
stucco
work and grotesques surrounding the main frescoes. [ 43 ]
Most of the artists were later scattered, and some killed, by the violent
Sack of Rome in 1527 . [ 44 ]
This did however contribute to the diffusion of versions of Raphael's style around Italy and beyond.
Vasari emphasises that Raphael ran a very harmonious and efficient
workshop, and had extraordinary skill in smoothing over troubles and
arguments with both patrons and his assistants—a contrast with the
stormy pattern of Michelangelo's relationships with both. [ 45 ]
However though both Penni and Giulio were sufficiently skilled that
distinguishing between their hands and that of Raphael himself is still
sometimes difficult, [ 46 ]
there is no doubt that many of Raphael's later wall-paintings, and
probably some of his easel paintings, are more notable for their design
than their execution. Many of his portraits, if in good condition, show
his brilliance in the detailed handling of paint right up to the end of
his life. [ 47 ]
Other pupils or assistants include
Raffaellino del Colle ,
Andrea Sabbatini ,
Bartolommeo Ramenghi ,
Pellegrino Aretusi ,
Vincenzo Tamagni ,
Battista Dossi ,
Tommaso Vincidor ,
Timoteo Viti
(the Urbino painter), and the sculptor and architect
Lorenzetto
(Giulio's brother-in-law). [ 48 ]
The printmakers and architects in Raphael's circle are discussed below. It has been claimed the Flemish
Bernard van Orley
worked for Raphael for a time, and Luca Penni, brother of Gianfrancesco, may have been a member of the team. [ 49 ]
Portraits
Portrait of Elisabetta Gonzaga , ca. 1504
Portrait of Pope Julius II , ca. 1512
Portrait of Bindo Altoviti , ca. 1514
Portrait of
Baldassare Castiglione , ca. 1515.
Architecture
After Bramante's death in 1514, he was named architect of the new
St Peter's .
Most of his work there was altered or demolished after his death and
the acceptance of Michelangelo's design, but a few drawings have
survived. It appears his designs would have made the church a good deal
gloomier than the final design, with massive piers all the way down the
nave, "like an alley" according to a critical posthumous analysis by
Antonio da Sangallo the Younger . It would perhaps have resembled the temple in the background of the
The Expulsion of Heliodorus from the Temple . [ 50 ]
The
Palazzo Aquila , now destroyed
He designed several other buildings, and for a short time was the
most important architect in Rome, working for a small circle around the
Papacy. Julius had made changes to the street plan of Rome, creating
several new thoroughfares, and he wanted them filled with splendid
palaces. [ 51 ]
An important building, the Palazzo Aquila for Leo's Papal
Chamberlain , was completely destroyed to make way for
Bernini 's
piazza
for St. Peter's, but drawings of the facade and courtyard remain. The
facade was an unusually richly decorated one for the period, including
both painted panels on the top story (of three), and much sculpture on
the middle one. [ 52 ]
The main designs for the Villa Farnesina were not by Raphael, but he did design, and paint, the
Chigi Chapel
for the same patron,
Agostino Chigi , the Papal Treasurer. Another building, for Pope Leo's doctor, the
Palazzo di Jacobo da Brescia ,
was moved in the 1930s but survives; this was designed to complement a
palace on the same street by Bramante, where Raphael himself lived for a
time. [ 53 ]
View of the
Chigi Chapel
The
Villa Madama , a lavish hillside retreat for Cardinal Giulio de' Medici, later
Pope Clement VII ,
was never finished, and his full plans have to be reconstructed
speculatively. He produced a design from which the final construction
plans were completed by
Antonio da Sangallo the Younger .
Even incomplete, it was the most sophisticated villa design yet seen in
Italy, and greatly influenced the later development of the genre; it
appears to be the only modern building in Rome of which
Palladio
made a measured drawing. [ 54 ]
Only some floor-plans remain for a large palace planned for himself on the new "Via Giulia" in the
Borgo ,
for which he was accumulating the land in his last years. It was on an
irregular island block near the river Tiber. It seems all facades were
to have a
giant order
of
pilasters
rising at least two storeys to the full height of the
piano nobile , "a gandiloquent feature unprecedented in private palace design". [ 55 ]
In 1515 he was given powers as "Prefect" over all antiquities
unearthed entrusted within the city, or a mile outside. Raphael wrote a
letter to Pope Leo suggesting ways of halting the destruction of ancient
monuments, and proposed a visual survey of the city to record all
antiquities in an organised fashion. The Pope's concerns were not
exactly the same; he intended to continue to re-use ancient masonry in
the building of St Peter's, but wanted to ensure that all ancient
inscriptions were recorded, and sculpture preserved, before allowing the
stones to be reused. [ 56 ]
Drawings
Study for soldiers in
this
Resurrection of Christ , ca 1500.
Lucretia , engraved by Raimondi after a drawing by Raphael. [ 57 ]
Raphael was one of the finest draftsmen in the history of Western
art, and used drawings extensively to plan his compositions. According
to a near-contemporary, when beginning to plan a composition, he would
lay out a large number of stock drawings of his on the floor, and begin
to draw "rapidly", borrowing figures from here and there. [ 58 ]
Over forty sketches survive for the
Disputa
in the Stanze, and there may well have been many more originally; over four hundred sheets survive altogether. [ 59 ]
He used different drawings to refine his poses and compositions,
apparently to a greater extent than most other painters, to judge by the
number of variants that survive: "... This is how Raphael himself, who
was so rich in inventiveness, used to work, always coming up with four
or six ways to show a narrative, each one different from the rest, and
all of them full of grace and well done." wrote another writer after his
death. [ 60 ]
For
John Shearman , Raphael's art marks "a shift of resources away from production to research and development". [ 61 ]
When a final composition was achieved, scaled-up full-size cartoons
were often made, which were then pricked with a pin and "pounced" with a
bag of soot to leave dotted lines on the surface as a guide. He also
made unusually extensive use, on both paper and plaster, of a "blind
stylus", scratching lines which leave only an indentation, but no mark.
These can be seen on the wall in
The School of Athens , and in the originals of many drawings. [ 62 ]
The "Raphael Cartoons", as tapestry designs, were fully coloured in a glue
distemper
medium, as they were sent to Brussels to be followed by the weavers.
In later works painted by the workshop, the drawings are often painfully more attractive than the paintings. [ 63 ]
Most Raphael drawings are rather precise—even initial sketches with
naked outline figures are carefully drawn, and later working drawings
often have a high degree of finish, with shading and sometimes
highlights in white. They lack the freedom and energy of some of
Leonardo's and Michelangelo's sketches, but are nearly always
aesthetically very satisfying. He was one of the last artists to use
metalpoint
(literally a sharp pointed piece of sliver or another metal)
extensively, although he also made superb use of the freer medium of red
or black chalk. [ 64 ]
In his final years he was one of the first artists to use female models
for preparatory drawings—male pupils ("garzoni") were normally used for
studies of both sexes. [ 65 ]
Printmaking
Raphael made no
prints
himself, but entered into a collaboration with
Marcantonio Raimondi
to produce
engravings
to Raphael's designs, which created many of the most famous Italian prints of the century, and was important in the
rise of the reproductive print . His interest was unusual in such a major artist; from his contemporaries only
Titian , who had worked much less successfully with Raimondi, shared it. [ 66 ]
A total of about fifty prints were made; some were copies of Raphael's
paintings, but other designs were apparently created by Raphael purely
to be turned into prints. Raphael made preparatory drawings, many of
which survive, for Raimondi to translate into engraving. [ 67 ]
The most famous original prints to result from the collaboration were
Lucretia , the
Judgement of Paris
and
The Massacre of the Innocents
(of which two virtually identical versions were engraved). Among prints of the paintings
The Parnassus
(with considerable differences) [ 68 ]
and
Galatea
were also especially well-known. Outside Italy, reproductive prints by
Raimondi and others were the main way that Raphael's art was experienced
until the twentieth century.
Baviero Carocci , called "Il Baviera" by Vasari, an assistant who Raphael evidently trusted with his money, [ 69 ]
ended up in control of most of the copper plates after Raphael's death,
and had a successful career in the new occupation of a publisher of
prints. [ 70 ]
Drawing for a
Sybyl
in the
Chigi Chapel .
The Massacre of the Innocents , engraving by (?) Raimondi from a design by Raphael. The version "without fir tree".
Judgement of Paris , still influencing
Manet , who used the seated group in his
most famous work .
Galatea, engraving after the fresco in the
Villa Farnesina
Private life and death
La Fornarina , Raphael's mistress.
Raphael lived in the Borgo, in rather grand style in a palace
designed by Bramante. He never married, but in 1514 became engaged to
Maria Bibbiena, Cardinal Medici Bibbiena's niece; he seems to have been
talked into this by his friend the Cardinal, and his lack of enthusiasm
seems to be shown by the marriage not taking place before she died in
1520. [ 71 ]
He is said to have had many affairs, but a permanent fixture in his
life in Rome was "La Fornarina", Margherita Luti, the daughter of a
baker ( fornaro ) named Francesco Luti from Siena who lived at Via del Governo Vecchio. [ 72 ]
He was made a " Groom of the Chamber " of the Pope, which gave him status at court and an additional income, and also a knight of the Papal
Order of the Golden Spur . Vasari claims he had toyed with the ambition of becoming a
Cardinal , perhaps after some encouragement from Leo, which also may account for his delaying his marriage. [ 71 ]
According to Vasari, Raphael's premature death on
Good Friday
(April 6, 1520) (possibly his 37th birthday), was caused by a night of
excessive sex with Luti, after which he fell into a fever and, not
telling his doctors that this was its cause, was given the wrong cure,
which killed him. [ 73 ]
Whatever the cause, in his acute illness, which lasted fifteen days, Raphael was composed enough to receive the
last rites ,
and to put his affairs in order. He dictated his will, in which he left
sufficient funds for his mistress's care, entrusted to his loyal
servant Baviera, and left most of his studio contents to Giulio Romano
and Penni. At his request, Raphael was buried in the
Pantheon . [ 74 ]
Vasari, in his biography of Raphael, says that Raphael was also born
on a Good Friday, which in 1483 fell on March 28. This would mean that
while Raphael was born and died on Good Friday, he was actually older
than 37 on the 1520 Good Friday which fell on April 6. [ 75 ]
His funeral was extremely grand, attended by large crowds. The inscription in his marble sarcophagus, an
elegiac
distich
written by
Pietro Bembo ,
reads: "Ille hic est Raffael, timuit quo sospite vinci, rerum magna
parens et moriente mori." Meaning: "Here lies that famous Raphael by
whom Nature feared to be conquered while he lived, and when he was
dying, feared herself to die."
Critical reception
Sistine Madonna
1513-14
Raphael was highly admired by his contemporaries, although his
influence on artistic style in his own century was less than that of
Michelangelo.
Mannerism , beginning at the time of his death, and later the
Baroque , took art "in a direction totally opposed" to Raphael's qualities; [ 76 ]
"with Raphael's death, classic art - the High Renaissance - subsided", as
Walter Friedländer
put it. [ 77 ]
He was soon seen as the ideal model by those disliking the excesses of Mannerism:
the opinion ...was generally held in the middle of the sixteenth
century that Raphael was the ideal balanced painter, universal in his
talent, satisfying all the absolute standards, and obeying all the rules
which were supposed to govern the arts, whereas Michelangelo was the
eccentric genius, more brilliant than any other artists in his
particular field, the drawing of the male nude, but unbalanced and
lacking in certain qualities, such as grace and restraint, essential to
the great artist. Those, like Dolce and
Aretino , who held this view were usually the survivors of
Renaissance Humanism , unable to follow Michelangelo as he moved on into Mannerism. [ 78 ]
Vasari himself, despite his hero remaining Michelangelo, came to see
his influence as harmful in some ways, and added passages to the second
edition of the
Lives
expressing similar views. [ 79 ]
Raphael's compositions were always admired and studied, and became the cornerstone of the
training of the Academies of art .
His period of greatest influence was from the late 17th to late 19th
centuries, when his perfect decorum and balance were greatly admired. He
was seen as the best model for the
history painting , regarded as the highest in the
hierarchy of genres . Sir
Joshua Reynolds
in his
Discourses
praised his "simple, grave, and majestic dignity" and said he "stands
in general foremost of the first [ie best] painters", especially for his
frescoes (in which he included the "Raphael Cartoons"), whereas
"Michael Angelo claims the next attention. He did not possess so many
excellences as Raffaelle, but those he had were of the highest kind..."
Echoing the sixteenth-century views above, Reynolds goes on to say of
Raphael:
Raphael and Maria Bibbiena's tomb in the
Pantheon . The Madonna is by
Lorenzetto .
The excellency of this extraordinary man lay in the propriety,
beauty, and majesty of his characters, his judicious contrivance of his
composition, correctness of drawing, purity of taste, and the skilful
accommodation of other men’s conceptions to his own purpose. Nobody
excelled him in that judgment, with which he united to his own
observations on nature the energy of Michael Angelo, and the beauty and
simplicity of the antique. To the question, therefore, which ought to
hold the first rank, Raffaelle or Michael Angelo, it must be answered,
that if it is to be given to him who possessed a greater combination of
the higher qualities of the art than any other man, there is no doubt
but Raffaelle is the first. But if, according to
Longinus ,
the sublime, being the highest excellence that human composition can
attain to, abundantly compensates the absence of every other beauty, and
atones for all other deficiencies, then Michael Angelo demands the
preference. [ 80 ]
Reynolds was less enthusiastic about Raphael's panel paintings, but
the slight sentimentality of these made them enormously popular in the
19th century:"We have been familiar with them from childhood onwards,
through a far greater mass of reproductions than any other artist in the
world has ever had..." wrote
Wölfflin , who was born in 1862, of Raphael's Madonnas. [ 81 ]
In 19th century England the
Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood
explicitly reacted against his influence (and that of his admirers such
as "Sir Sploshua"), seeking to return to styles before what they saw as
his baneful influence. According to a critic whose ideas greatly
influenced them,
John Ruskin :
The doom of the arts of Europe went forth from that chamber [the
Stanza della Segnatura], and it was brought about in great part by the
very excellencies of the man who had thus marked the commencement of
decline. The perfection of execution and the beauty of feature which
were attained in his works, and in those of his great contemporaries,
rendered finish of execution and beauty of form the chief objects of all
artists; and thenceforward execution was looked for rather than
thought, and beauty rather than veracity.
And as I told you, these are the two secondary causes of the decline
of art; the first being the loss of moral purpose. Pray note them
clearly. In mediæval art, thought is the first thing, execution the
second; in modern art execution is the first thing, and thought the
second. And again, in mediæval art, truth is first, beauty second; in
modern art, beauty is first, truth second. The mediæval principles led
up to Raphael, and the modern principles lead down from him. [ 82 ]
He was still seen by 20th century critics like
Bernard Berenson
as the "most famous and most loved" master of the High Renaissance, [ 83 ]
but it would seem he has since been overtaken by Michelangelo and Leonardo in this respect. [ 84 ]
See also
List of works by Raphael Renaissance painting Italian Renaissance
Notes
^
Jones and Penny, p. 171. The portrait of Raphael is probably "a later
adaptation of the one likeness which all agree on", that in
The School of Athens , vouched for by Vasari ^
Variants include "Raffaello Santi", "Raffaello da Urbino" or "Rafael Sanzio da Urbino". The surname
Sanzio
derives from the
latinization
of the Italian
Santi
into
Santius . He normally signed documents as "Raphael Urbinas"—a latinized form. Gould:207 ^
Jones and Penny, pp. 1 and 246. He died on his thirty-seventh birthday, and was both born and died on
Good Friday , according to different sources. The matter has been much discussed, as both cannot be true. ^
See, for example
Honour, Hugh; John Fleming (1982).
A World History of Art . London: Macmillan. p. 357.
^
Vasari, pp. 208, 230 and passim. ^
Urbino: The Story of a Renaissance City
By June Osborne, p.39 on the population, as a "few thousand" at most;
even today it is only 15,000 without the students of the University ^
Jones and Penny, pp. 1-2 ^
Vasari:207 & passim ^
Jones & Penny:204 ^
Vasari, at the start of the
Life . Jones & Penny:5 ^
Ashmolean Museum
image ^
Jones and Penny: 4-5, 8 and 20 ^
Simone Fornari in 1549-50, see Gould:207 ^
Jones & Penny:8 ^
contrasting him with Leonardo and Michelangelo in this respect. Wölfflin:73 ^
Jones and Penny:17 ^
Jones & Penny:2-5 ^
It was later seriously damaged during an earthquake in 1789. ^
Jones and Penny:5-8 ^
One surviving preparatory drawing appears to be mostly by Raphael; quotation from Vasari by - Jones and Penny:20 ^
Gould:207-8 ^
Jones and Penny:5 ^
National Gallery, London
Jones & Penny:44 ^
Jones & Penny:21-45 ^
Vasari, Michelangelo:251 ^
Jones & Penny:44-47, and Wöllflin:79-82 ^
image ^
drawing ^
Jones & Penny:49, differing somewhat from Gould:208 on the timing of his arrival ^
Vasari:247 ^
although Julius was no great reader—an inventory compiled after his
death has a total of 220 books, large for the time, but hardly requiring
such a receptacle. There was no room for bookcases on the walls, which
were in cases in the middle of the floor, destroyed in the 1527 Sack of
Rome. Jones & Penny:4952 ^
Jones & Penny:49 ^
Jones & Penny:49-128 ^
Jones & Penny:101-105 ^
Blunt:76, Jones & Penny:103-5 ^
Book of the Courtier 1:26
The whole passage ^
Levey, Michael ;
Early Renaissance , p.197 ,1967, Penguin ^
One a portrait of
Joanna of Aragon, Queen consort of Naples ,
for which Raphael sent an assistant to Naples to make a drawing, and
probably left most of the painting to the workshop. Jones &
Penny:163 ^
Jones & Penny:133-147 ^
Jones & Penny:192-197 ^
Jones & Penny:235-246, though the relationship of Raphael to
Mannerism, like the definition of Mannerism itself, is much debated. See
Craig Hugh Smyth,
Mannerism & Maniera , 1992, IRSA Vienna,
ISBN 3-900731-33-0 ^
Jones and Penny:146-147, 196-197, and Pon:82-85 ^
Jones and Penny:147, 196 ^
Vasari, Life of Polidoro
online in English
Maturino for one is never heard of again ^
Vasari:207 & 231 ^
See for example, the
Raphael Cartoons ^
Jones & Penny:163-167 and passim ^
The direct transmission of training can be traced to some surprising figures, including
Brian Eno ,
Tom Phillips
and
Frank Auerbach
[1] ^
Vasari (full text in Italian) pp197-8 & passim ; see also
Getty Union Artist Name List
entries ^
Jones & Penny:215-218 ^
Jones & Penny:210-211 ^
Jones & Penny:221-222 ^
Jones & Penny:219-220 ^
Jones and Penny:226-234; Raphael left a long letter describing his intentions to the Cardinal, reprinted in full on pp.247-8 ^
Jones & Penny:224(quotation)-226 ^
Jones & Penny:205 The letter may date from 1519, or before his appointment ^
drawing, probably not the final one ^
GB Armenini (1533-1609)
De vera precetti della pittura (1587), quoted Pon:115 ^
Jones & Penny:58 & ff; 400 from Pon:114 ^
Ludovico Dolce (1508-68), from his
L'Aretino
of 1557, quoted Pon:114 ^
quoted Pon:114, from lecture on
The Organization of Raphael's Workshop , pub. Chicago, 1983 ^
Not surprisingly, photographs do not show these well, if at all.
Leonardo sometimes used a blind stylus to outline his final choice from a
tangle of different outlines in the same drawing. Pon:106-110. ^
Lucy Whitaker, Martin Clayton,
The Art of Italy in the Royal Collection; Renaissance and Baroque , p.84, Royal Collection Publications, 2007,
ISBN 978 1 902163 291 ^
Pon:104 ^
National Galleries of Scotland ^
Pon:102. See also a lengthy analysis in: Landau:118 ff ^
The enigmatic relationship is discussed at length by both Landau and Pon in her Chapters 3 and 4. ^
Pon:86-87 lists them ^
"Il Baviera" may mean "the Bavarian"; if he was German, as many artists
in Rome were, this would have been helpful during the 1527 Sack;
Marcantonio had many printing-plates looted from him. Jones and
Penny:82, see also Vasari ^
Pon:95-136 & passim; Landau:118-160, and passim ^
a
b
Vasari:230-231 ^
Art historians and doctors debate whether the right hand on the left breast in
La Fornarina
reveal a cancerous breast tumour detailed and disguised in a classic
pose of love."The Portrait of Breast Cancer and Raphael's La Fornarina",
The Lancet , December 21, 2002/December 28, 2002. ^
Various other historians provide different theories:
Bernardino Ramazzini
(1700), in his
De morbis artificum ,
noted that painters at the time generally led “sedentary lives and
melancholic disposition” and often worked “with mercury- and lead-based
materials.” Bufarale (1915) “diagnosed penumonia or a military fever”
while Portigliotti suggested “pulmonary disease.” Joannides has stated
that “Raphael died of over-work. Note also that Raphael's age at death
is also debated by some, with Michiel asserting that Raphael died at
thirty-four, while Pandolfo Pico and Girolamo Lippomano arguing that
Raphael died at thirty-three. For all see: Shearman:573. ^
Vasari:231 ^
Art historian John Shearman, addressed this apparent discrepancy: "The
time of death can be calculated from the convention of counting from
sundown, which Michaelis puts at 6.36 on Friday 6 April, plus
half-an-hour to Ave Maria, plus three hours, that is, soon after 10.00
pm. The coincidence noted between the birth-date and death-date is
usually thought in this case (since it refers to the Friday and Saturday
in Holy Week, the movable feast rather than the day of the month) to
fortify the argument that Raphael was also born on Good Friday, i.e., 28
March 1483. But there is a notable ambiguity in Michiel’s note, not
often noticed:
Morse
…
Venerdi Santo venendo il Sabato, giorno della sua Nativita ,
may also be taken to mean that his birthday was on Saturday, and in
that case the awareness could as well be the date, thus producing a
birth-date of 7 April 1483." Shearman:573. ^
Chastel André ,
Italian Art ,p. 230, 1963, Faber ^
Walter Friedländer,
Mannerism and Anti-Mannerism in Italian Painting , p.42 (Schocken 1970 edn.), 1957, Columbia UP ^
Blunt:76 ^
See Jones & Penny:102-4 ^
The 1772 Discourse
Online text of Reynold's Discourses
The whole passage is worth reading. ^
Wölfflin:82, ^
Ruskin,
Pre-Raphaelitism , S. 127
online at Project Gutenburg ^
Berenson, Bernard ,
Italian Painters of the renaissance, Vol 2 Florentine and Central Italian Schools , Phaidon 1952 (refs to 1968 edn), p.94 ^
For what it is worth, Amazon UK's "Renaissance" top 25 bestsellers list
included five books with Leonardo in the title, three with
Michelangelo, and one with Raphael.
accessed December 6th, 2007 . Their US site does not run a comparable list.
Main references
Blunt, Anthony ,
Artistic Theory in Italy, 1450-1660 , 1940 (refs to 1985 edn),
OUP ,
ISBN 0-19-881050-4 Gould, Cecil ,
The Sixteenth Century Italian Schools , National Gallery Catalogues, London 1975,
ISBN 0-947645-22-5 Roger Jones and
Nicholas Penny ,
Raphael , Yale, 1983,
ISBN 0-300-03061-4 Landau, David in:David Landau & Peter Parshall,
The Renaissance Print , Yale, 1996,
ISBN 0-300-06883-2 Pon, Lisa,
Raphael, Dürer, and Marcantonio Raimondi, Copying and the Italian Renaissance Print , 2004, Yale UP,
ISBN 978-0-300-09680-4 Shearman, John ;
Raphael in Early Modern Sources 1483-1602 , 2003, Yale University Press,
ISBN 0-300-09918-5 Vasari ,
Life of Raphael
from the
Lives of the Artists , edition used:
Artists of the Renaissance
selected & ed Malcolm Bull, Penguin 1965 (page nos from BCA edn, 1979) Wölfflin, Heinrich ;
Classic Art; An Introduction to the Renaissance , 1952 in English (1968
Further reading
The standard source of biographical information is now: V. Golzio,
Raffaello nei documenti nelle testimonianze dei contemporanei e nella letturatura del suo secolo , Vatican City and Westmead, 1971 Raphael: From Urbino to Rome ; Hugo Chapman, Tom Henry, Carol Plazzotta, Arnold Nesselrath,
Nicholas Penny , National Gallery Publications Limited, 2004,
ISBN 1-85709-999-0
(exhibition catalogue) The Cambridge Companion to Raphael , Marcia B. Hall, Cambridge University Press, 2005,
ISBN 0-521-80809-X , Raphael: A Critical Catalogue of His Paintings ; Jürg Meyer zur Capellen, Stefan B. Polter, Arcos, 2001,
ISBN 3-935339-00-3 Raphael ;
John Pope-Hennessy , New York University Press, 1970,
ISBN 0-8147-0476-X Raphael - A Critical Catalogue of his Pictures, Wall-Paintings and Tapestries , catalogue raisonné by Luitpold Dussler published in the United States by Phaidon Publishers, Inc., 1971,
ISBN 0-7148-1469-5
(out of print, but there is an online version
here )
External links
Wikimedia Commons has media related to:
Raffaello Sanzio
V&A London online feature on the Raphael Cartoons Ten drawings and three paintings from the Royal Collection Web Gallery of Art Most of the Raphael/Raimondi prints from the San Francisco Museums
[ hide ]
v
•
d
•
e
Raphael
Early works
The Kinnaird Resurrection
•
Baronci Altarpiece
•
St. Sebastian
•
Oddi Altar
•
Solly Madonna
•
Mond Crucifixion
•
Three Graces
•
St. Michael
•
Portrait of a Man
•
Connestabile Madonna
•
Madonna and Child
•
The Marriage of the Virgin
•
Vision of a Knight
•
St. George
•
Colonna Altarpiece
•
Portrait of Perugino
Florentine period
Portrait of Elisabetta Gonzaga
•
Self-portrait
•
Madonna of the Grand Duke
•
Ansidei Madonna
•
Young Man with an Apple
•
Christ Blessing
•
Madonna Terranuova
•
Madonna of the Goldfinch
•
Madonna of the Meadow
•
Esterhazy Madonna
•
Small Cowper Madonna
•
St. George and the Dragon
•
La donna gravida
•
Portrait of Agnolo Doni
•
Portrait of Maddalena Doni
•
Madonna of the Pinks
•
Young Woman with Unicorn
•
Madonna with Beardless St. Joseph
•
Saint Catherine of Alexandria
•
Canigiani Holy Family
•
La belle jardinière
•
Deposition of Christ
•
Portrait of a Young Woman
•
Tempi Madonna
•
Madonna Colonna
•
Madonna de Bogota
Roman period
Portrait of Cardinal Alessandro Farnese
•
La disputa
•
The School of Athens
•
Madonna of Loreto
•
Aldobrandini Madonna
•
Madonna with the Blue Diadem
•
Portrait of a Cardinal
•
Alba Madonna
•
Niccolini-Cowper Madonna
•
The Parnassus
•
Cardinal and Theological Virtues
•
The Prophet Isaiah
•
The Expulsion of Heliodorus from the Temple
•
Portrait of Pope Julius II
•
Madonna of Foligno
•
Triumph of Galatea
•
Sistine Madonna
•
Madonna della seggiola
•
Madonna dell'Impannata
•
Madonna della tenda
•
The Fire in the Borgo
•
The Meeting of Leo the Great and Attila
•
Deliverance of Saint Peter
•
The Mass at Bolsena
•
Portrait of Bindo Altoviti
•
The Sibyls
•
The Ecstasy of St. Cecilia
•
Portrait of Balthasar Castiglione
•
La donna velata
•
Portrait of Tommaso Inghirami
•
Palazzo Branconio dell'Aquila
in
Borgo
•
Portrait of Andrea Navagero and Agostino Beazzano
•
Portrait of Cardinal Bibbiena
•
Church of Sant'Eligio degli Orefici
•
Creation of the World
•
Transfiguration
•
Portrait of Pope Leo X with Two Cardinals
•
Christ Falling on the Way to Calvary
•
The Holy Family of Francis I
•
Ezekiel's Vision
•
St. Michael Vanquishing Satan
•
Madonna of the Rose
•
Self-portrait with a Friend
•
La fornarina
•
Visitation
•
Portrait of a Young Man Parte 2: Giovanni Bellini
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Giovanni Bellini
Self-portrait
Born
1430 Venice
Died
1516 (aged 85–86)
Nationality
Italian
Field
Painting
Movement
Renaissance
Giovanni Bellini
(c. 1430–1516 [ 1 ] ) was an
Italian
Renaissance
painter, probably the best known of the Bellini family of
Venetian
painters. His father was
Jacopo Bellini , his brother was
Gentile Bellini , and his brother-in-law was
Andrea Mantegna .
He is considered to have revolutionized Venetian painting, moving it
towards a more sensuous and colouristic style. Through the use of clear,
slow-drying oil paints, Giovanni created deep, rich tints and detailed
shadings. His sumptuous coloring and fluent, atmospheric landscapes had a
great effect on the Venetian painting school, especially on his pupils
Giorgione
and
Titian .
Contents
1
Early career 2
Maturity 3
High Renaissance 4
Assessment 5
Works 6
References 7
Further reading 8
External links
Early career
Hieronymus in der Wüste (Hieronymus- St. Jerome- in the Desert) , c. 1455; Tempera on panel; Barber Institute, Birmingham
[ 2 ]
Giovanni Bellini was born in
Venice .
He was brought up in his father's house, and always lived and worked in
the closest fraternal relation with his brother Gentile. Up until the
age of nearly thirty we find in his work a depth of religious feeling
and human pathos which is his own. His paintings from the early period
are all executed in the old
tempera
method; the scene is softened by a new and beautiful effect of romantic sunrise color (see for example, the
St. Jerome
at left).
Pietà , 1460; Tempera on panel; Pinacoteca di Brera, Milan
In a somewhat changed and more personal manner, with less harshness
of contour and a broader treatment of forms and draperies, but not less
force of religious feeling, are the
Dead Christ
pictures, in these days one of the master's most frequent themes, (see for example the
Pietà: Dead Christ Supported by the Virgin and St. John
at right). Giovanni's early works have often been linked both
compositionally and stylistically to those of his brother-in-law, Andrea
Mantegna (1431–1506).
In 1470 Giovanni received his first appointment to work along with his brother and other artists in the
Scuola di San Marco , where among other subjects he was commissioned to paint a
Deluge with Noah's Ark .
None of the master's works of this kind, whether painted for the
various schools or confraternities or for the ducal palace, have
survived.
Maturity
Transfiguration of Christ, c. 1487; Oil on panel; Museo Capodimonte, Naples
To the decade following 1470 must probably be assigned the
Transfiguration
(at right) now in the Naples museum, repeating with greatly ripened
powers and in a much serener spirit the subject of his early effort at
Venice.
Also the great altar-piece of the
Coronation of the Virgin
at
Pesaro ,
which would seem to be his earliest effort in a form of art previously
almost monopolized in Venice by the rival school of the
Vivarini .
As is the case with a number of his brother, Gentile's public works
of the period, many of Giovanni's great public works are now lost. The
still more famous altar-piece painted in tempera for a chapel in the
church of S. Giovanni e Paolo , where it perished along with Titian's
Peter Martyr
and
Tintoretto 's
Crucifixion
in the disastrous fire of 1867.
Madonna and Child , c. 1480; Oil; Burrell Collection, Glasgow
After 1479–1480 much of Giovanni's time and energy must also have
been taken up by his duties as conservator of the paintings in the great
hall of the
ducal palace .
The importance of this commission can be measured by the payment
Giovanni received: he was awarded, first the reversion of a broker's
place in the
Fondaco dei Tedeschi ,
and afterwards, as a substitute, a fixed annual pension of eighty
ducats. Besides repairing and renewing the works of his predecessors he
was commissioned to paint a number of new subjects, six or seven in all,
in further illustration of the part played by Venice in the wars of
Frederick Barbarossa
and the pope. These works, executed with much interruption and delay,
were the object of universal admiration while they lasted, but not a
trace of them survived the fire of 1577; neither have any other examples
of his historical and processional compositions come down, enabling us
to compare his manner in such subjects with that of his brother Gentile.
Of the other, the religious class of his work, including both
altar-pieces with many figures and simple Madonnas, a considerable
number have fortunately been preserved. They show him gradually throwing
off the last restraints of the
Quattrocento
manner; gradually acquiring a complete mastery of the new
oil
medium introduced in Venice by
Antonello da Messina
about 1473, and mastering with its help all, or nearly all, the secrets
of the perfect fusion of colors and atmospheric gradation of tones. The
old intensity of pathetic and devout feeling gradually fades away and
gives place to a noble, if more worldly, serenity and charm. The
enthroned
Virgin and Child
(such as the one at left) become
tranquil and commanding in their sweetness; the personages of the
attendant saints gain in power, presence and individuality; enchanting
groups of singing and viol-playing angels symbolize and complete the
harmony of the scene. The full splendour of Venetian color invests alike
the figures, their architectural framework, the landscape and the sky.
High Renaissance
San Giobbe Altarpiece , c. 1487; Oil on panel;
Accademia , Venice
An interval of some years, no doubt chiefly occupied with work in the
Hall of the Great Council , seems to separate the
San Giobbe Altarpiece
(at left), and that of the church of
San Zaccaria at Venice
(at right). Formally, the works are very similar, so a comparison
between serves to illustrate the shift in Bellini's work over the last
decade of the
Quattrocento . Both pictures are of the
Sacra conversazione
(sacred conversation between the
Madonna
and
Saints ) type. Both show the Madonna seated on a throne (thought to allude to the throne of
Solomon ), between
classicizing
columns . Both place the holy figures beneath a golden
mosaicked
half dome that recalls the
Byzantine architecture
in the church of
San Marco .
San Zaccaria Altarpiece , 1505; Oil on canvas, transferred from panel; San Zaccaria, Venice
In the later work he depicts the Virgin surrounded by (from left):
St. Peter
holding his keys and the
Book of Wisdom ; the virginal
St. Catherine
and
St. Lucy
closest to the Virgin, each holding a
martyr 's palm and her implement of torture (Catherine a
breaking wheel , and Lucy a dish with her eyes);
St. Jerome , who translated the
Greek Bible
into the first
Latin
edition (the
Vulgate ).
Stylistically, the lighting in the
San Zaccaria
piece has become so soft and diffuse that it makes that in the
San Giobbe
appear almost raking in contrast. Giovanni's use of the oil medium had
matured, and the holy figures seem to be swathed in a still, rarefied
air. The
San Zaccaria
is considered perhaps the most beautiful
and imposing of all Giovanni's altarpieces, and is dated 1505, the year
following that of Giorgione's
Madonna of Castelfranco .
Other late altar-piece with saints include that of the church of
San Francesco della Vigna
at Venice, 1507; that of La Corona at
Vicenza , a
Baptism of Christ
in a landscape, 1510; and that of San Giovanni Crisostomo at Venice of 1513.
Of Giovanni's activity in the interval between the altar-pieces of
San Giobbe and San Zaccaria, there are a few minor works left, though
the great mass of his output perished with the fire of the
Doge's Palace
in 1577. The last ten or twelve years of the master's life saw him
besieged with more commissions than he could well complete. Already in
the years 1501–1504 the marchioness Isabella
Gonzaga
of
Mantua
had had great difficulty in obtaining delivery from him of a picture of
the Madonna and Saints (now lost) for which part payment had been made
in advance. In 1505 she endeavoured through
Cardinal Bembo
to obtain from him another picture, this time of a secular or
mythological character. What the subject of this piece was, or whether
it was actually delivered, we do not know.
The Feast of the Gods , c. 1514 completed by his disciple,
Titian , 1529: an example of
Chinese porcelain in European painting ; Oil on canvas; National Gallery of Art, Washington [ 3 ]
Albrecht Dürer ,
visiting Venice for a second time in 1506, describes Giovanni Bellini
as still the best painter in the city, and as full of all courtesy and
generosity towards foreign brethren of the brush.
In 1507 Bellini's brother Gentile died, and Giovanni completed the picture of the
Preaching of St. Mark
which he had left unfinished; a task on the fulfillment of which the
bequest by the elder brother to the younger of their father's
sketch-book had been made conditional.
In 1513 Giovanni's position as sole master (since the death of his brother and of
Alvise Vivarini ) in charge of the paintings in the Hall of the Great Council was threatened by one of his former pupils. Young
Titian
desired a share of the same undertaking, to be paid for on the same
terms. Titian's application was granted, then after a year rescinded,
and then after another year or two granted again; and the aged master
must no doubt have undergone some annoyance from his sometime pupil's
proceedings. In 1514 Giovanni undertook to paint
The Feast of the Gods
for the duke
Alfonso I of Ferrara , but died in 1516.
He was interred in the
Basilica di San Giovanni e Paolo , a traditional burial place of the doges.
Assessment
St. Francis
in Ecstasy ,1480; Oil and tempera on panel; Frick Collection, New York [ 4 ]
Le Christ Bénissant , 1465-1470. Notice the tunique
hem
extensively decorated with
pseudo-Kufic
(see
detail ).
Both in the artistic and in the worldly sense, the career of Giovanni
Bellini was, on the whole, very prosperous. His long career began with
Quattrocento
styles but matured into the progressive post-Giorgione Renaissance
styles. He lived to see his own school far outshine that of his rivals,
the Vivarini of Murano; he embodied, with growing and maturing power,
all the devotional gravity and much also of the worldly splendour of the
Venice of his time; and he saw his influence propagated by a host of
pupils, two of whom at least, Giorgione and Titian, equalled or even
surpassed their master. Giorgione he outlived by five years; Titian, as
we have seen, challenged him, claiming an equal place beside his
teacher. Other pupils of the Bellini studio included
Girolamo da Santacroce ,
Vittore Belliniano ,
Rocco Marconi ,
Andrea Previtali [ 5 ]
and possibly
Bernardino Licinio .
In the historical perspective, Bellini was essential to the
development of the Italian Renaissance for his incorporation of
aesthetics from Northern Europe. Significantly influenced by
Antonello da Messina ,
who had spent time in Flanders, Bellini made prevalent both the use of
oil painting, different from the tempera painting being used at the time
by most Italian Renaissance painters, and the use of disguised
symbolism integral to the
Northern Renaissance . As demonstrated in such works as
St. Francis in Ecstasy
(c. 1480,
at left ) and the
San Giobbe Altarpiece
(c. 1478), Bellini makes use of religious symbolism through natural
elements, such as grapevines and rocks. Yet his most important
contribution to art lies in his experimentation with the use of color
and atmosphere in oil painting.
Works
Naked Young Woman in Front of the Mirror , Bellini's first female nude, painted when he was about 85 years old, circa 1515.
Madonna with Child
(1450–1555) -
Tempera on wood, 47 x 31.5 cm, Civico Museo Malaspina,
Pavia
[2] Madonna with Child
(c. 1455) -
Tempera on panel, 72 x 46 cm,
Metropolitan Museum of Art ,
New York [3] Dead Christ Supported by the Madonna and St. John
(1455) -
Tempera on wood, 52 x 42 cm,
Accademia Carrara ,
Bergamo [4] Crucifixion
(c. 1455) -
Tempera on wood, 54.5 x 30 cm,
Museo Correr ,
Venice [5] Transfiguration
(c. 1455–1460) -
Tempera on panel, 134 x 68 cm, Museo Correr, Venice
[6] Agony in the Garden
(c. 1459) -
Tempera on wood, 81 x 127 cm,
National Gallery, London [7] Dead Christ Supported by the Madonna and St. John
(1460) -
Tempera on panel, 86 x 107 cm,
Pinacoteca di Brera , Milan [8] Dead Christ Supported by Two Angels
( Pietà , c. 1460) -
Tempera on panel, 74 x 50 cm, Museo Correr, Venice [9] Dead Christ in the Sepulchre
(c. 1460) -
Tempera on panel, 48 x 38 cm,
Museo Poldi Pezzoli ,
Milan [10] Blessing Christ
(c. 1460) -
Tempera on wood, 58 x 44 cm,
Musée du Louvre ,
Paris [11] The Blood of Christ
(c. 1460) -
Tempera on panel, 134 x 68 cm,
National Gallery, London Madonna and Child
(1460–1464) -
Tempera on panel, 78 x 54 cm, Civiche Raccolte d'Arte, Milan [12] Madonna with Child Blessing
(1460–1464) -
Tempera on wood, 79 x 63 cm,
Gallerie dell'Accademia , Venice [13] Madonna with Child
( Greek Madonna , 1460–1464) -
Tempera on wood, 82 x 62 cm, Pinacoteca di Brera, Milan [14] Madonna and Child
(1460–1464) -
Oil on canvas transferred from wood, 52 x 42.5 cm, Museo Correr, Venice [15] Madonna and Child
(1460–1464) -
Tempera on panel, 47 x 34 cm, Accademia Carrara, Bergamo [16] Presentation at the Temple
(1460–1464) -
Tempera on wood, 80 x 105 cm, Galleria Querini Stampalia, Venice [17] St. Sebastian Triptych
(1460–1464) -
Tempera on panel, Gallerie dell'Accademia, Venice [18] Nativity Triptych
(1460–1464) -
Tempera on panel, Gallerie dell'Accademia, Venice [19] Head of the Baptist
(1464–1468) -
Tempera on wood, diameter 28 cm, Musei Civici,
Pesaro [20] Polyptych of S. Vincenzo Ferreri
(1464–1468) -
Tempera on panel,
Basilica dei Santi Giovanni e Paolo, Venice Pesaro Altarpiece
(1471–1474) -
Oil on panel, 262 x 240 cm, Musei Civici, Pesaro Pietà
(1472) -
Tempera on canvas, 115 x 317 cm,
Doge's Palace , Venice [21] Dead Christ Supported by Angels (Bellini)Dead Christ Supported by Angels
(c. 1474) -
Tempera on panel, 91 x 131 cm, Pinacoteca Comunale,
Rimini [22] Madonna Enthroned Adoring the Sleeping Child
(1475) -
Tempera on wood, 120 x 65 cm, Gallerie dell'Accademia, Venice [23] Madonna with Child
(c. 1475) -
Tempera on panel, 77 x 57 cm,
Museo di Castelvecchio ,
Verona [24] Madonna with Child
(c. 1475) -
Tempera on panel, 75 x 50 cm,
Santa Maria dell'Orto , Venice [25] Madonna in Adoration of the Sleeping Child
(c. 1475) -
Tempera on panel, 77 x 56 cm, Contini Bonacossi Collection,
Florence [26] Madonna with Blessing Child
(1475–1480)
Oil on panel, 78 x 56 cm, Gallerie dell'Accademia, Venice [27] Portrait of a Humanist
(1475–1480) -
Oil on panel, 35 x 28 cm, Civiche Raccolte d'Arte, Milan Resurrection of Christ
(1475–1479) -
Oil on panel, 148 x 128 cm,
Staatliche Museen ,
Berlin St. Francis in Ecstasy
(c. 1480) -
Oil on panel, 124 x 142 cm,
Frick Collection ,
New York ,
United States Transfiguration of Christ
(c. 1480) -
Oil on panel, 116 x 154 cm,
Museo di Capodimonte ,
Naples St. Jerome Reading in the Countryside
(1480–1485) -
Oil on wood, 47 x 34 cm, National Gallery, London Madonna Willys
(1480–1490) -
Oil on panel, 75 x 59 cm,
São Paulo Museum of Art ,
São Paulo ,
Brazil Madonna and Child
(1480–1490) -
Oil on panel, 83 x 66 cm, Accademia Carrara, Bergamo Madonna of Red Angels
(1480–1490) -
Oil on panel, 77 x 60 cm, Gallerie dell'Accademia, Venice Portrait of a Condottiero
-
Oil on wood, 51 x 37 cm, National Gallery of Art, Washington Portrait of a Young Man in Red
(1485–1490) -
Oil on panel, 32 x 26 cm, National Gallery of Art, Washington Madonna degli Alberetti
(1487) -
Oil on panel, 74 x 58 cm, Gallerie dell'Accademia, Venice Madonna and Child
(1485–1490) -
Oil on panel, 88.9 x 71.1 cm, Metropolitan Museum of Art, New York San Giobbe Altarpiece
(c. 1487) -
Oil on panel, 471 x 258 cm, Gallerie dell'Accademia, Venice Madonna with Child and Sts. Peter and Sebastian
(c. 1487) -
Oil on panel, 84 x 61 cm, Musée du Louvre, Paris Frari Triptych
(1488) -
Oil on panel,
Santa Maria Gloriosa dei Frari , Venice Barbarigo Altarpiece
(1488) -
Oil on canvas, 200 x 320 cm,
San Pietro Martire , Murano Sacred Conversation
(1490) -
Oil on panel, 77 x 104 cm,
Museo del Prado ,
Madrid Allegories
(c. 1490) -
Gallerie dell'Accademia, Venice Sacred Conversation
(c. 1490) -
Oil on wood, 58 x 107 cm, Gallerie dell'Accademia, Venice Holy Allegory
(c. 1490) -
Oil on panel, 73 x 199 cm, Uffizi, Florence The Lamentation over the Body of Christ
(c. 1500) -
Tempera on wood, 76 x 121 cm,
Uffizi , Florence Angel Announcing
and
Virgin Announciated
(c. 1500) -
Oil on canvas, 224 x 105 cm (each), Gallerie dell'Accademia, Venice Portrait of a Young Man
(c. 1500) -
Oil on panel, 32 x 26 cm, Musée du Louvre, Paris Portrait of a Young Man
(c. 1500) -
Oil on wood, 31 x 25 cm, National Gallery of Art, Washington Portrait of a Young Senator
(1500) -
Oil on wood, 31 x 26 cm, Uffizi, Florence Portrait of Doge Leonardo Loredan
(1501) -
Oil on panel, 61.5 x 45 cm, National Gallery, London Baptism of Christ
(1500–1502) -
Oil on canvas, 400 x 263 cm, Santa Corona,
Vicenza Head of the Redeemer
(1500–1502) -
Oil on panel, 33 x 22 cm, Gallerie dell'Accademia, Venice Madonna and Child with St. John the Baptist and a Saint
(1500–1504) -
Oil on panel, 54 x 76 cm, Gallerie dell'Accademia, Venice Crucifixion
(1501–1503) -
Oil on panel, 81 x 49 cm, The Albert Gallery,
Prato Sermon of St. Mark in Alexandria
(1504–1507) -
Oil on canvas, 347 x 770 cm, Pinacoteca di Brera, Milan Holy Conversation
(1505–1510) -
Oil on panel, 62 x 83 cm,
Thyssen-Bornemisza Museum , Madrid San Zaccaria Altarpiece
(1505) -
Oil on canvas transferred from wood, 402 x 273 cm,
San Zaccaria, Venice Madonna of the Meadow
( Madonna del Prato ; 1505) -
Oil on canvas transferred from wood, 67 x 86 cm, National Gallery, London Pietà
(1505) -
Oil on wood, 65 x 90 cm, Gallerie dell'Accademia, Venice St. Jerome in the Desert
(1505) -
oil on panel, 49 x 39 cm,
National Gallery of Art ,
Washington The Assassination of Saint Peter Martyr
(1507) -
Egg tempera and oil on wood, 99.7 x 165.1 cm, National Gallery, London Madonna and Child with Four Saints and Donator
(1507) -
Oil on wood, 90 x 145 cm,
San Francesco della Vigna , Venice Continence of Scipio
(1507–1508) -
Oil on canvas, 74.8 x 35.6 cm, National Gallery of Art, Washington
The Murder of St Peter the Martyr, on display in the Courtauld Gallery
The Murder of St. Peter the Martyr
(1509) -
Oil on panel, 67.3 x 100.4 cm,
Courtauld Institute Galleries , London Madonna and Child Blessing
(1510) -
Oil on wood, 85 x 118 cm, Pinacoteca di Brera, Milan [28] Madonna with Child
(c. 1510) -
Oil on wood, 50 x 41 cm,
Galleria Borghese ,
Rome Saints Christopher, Jerome and Louis of Toulouse
(1513) -
Oil on panel, 300 x 185 cm, S. Giovanni Crisostomo, Venice Feast of the Gods
(1514) -
Oil on cavas, 170 x 188 cm, National Gallery of Art, Washington Young Bacchus
(c. 1514) -
Oil on wood, 48 x 37 cm, National Gallery of Art, Washington Naked Young Woman in Front of the Mirror
(1515) -
Oil on canvas, 62 x 79 cm,
Kunsthistorisches Museum , Vienna Portrait of Teodoro of Urbino
(1515) -
Oil on canvas, 63 x 49.5 cm, National Gallery, London Deposition
(c. 1515) -
Oil on canvas, 444 x 312 cm, Gallerie dell'Accademia, Venice Drunkennes of Noah
(c. 1515) -
Oil on canvas, 103 x 157 cm, Musée des Beaux-Arts,
Besançon
[ edit ]
References
^
His precise date of death is not recorded, but he was known to have died by 29 November 1516 -
[1] ^
The Barber Institute of Fine Arts, the Lapworth Museum of Geology and the University of Birmingham Collections - Objects ^
The Feast of the Gods ^
The Frick Collection ^
S.J. Freedberg, p 171
Further reading
Oskar Batschmann,
Giovanni Bellini
(London, Reaktion Books, 2008).
External links
Wikimedia Commons has media related to:
Giovanni Bellini
Giovanni Bellini at Gallery of Art Giovanni Bellini in "A World History of Art" Web Gallery of Art Giorgione
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Giorgione
A purported self-portrait, represented as
David .
Birth name
Giorgio Barbarelli da Castelfranco
Born
c. 1477-1478 Castelfranco Veneto ,
Italy
Died
1510 Venice ,
Italy
Field
Painting
Training
Giovanni Bellini
Movement
High Renaissance
Works
The Tempest Sleeping Venus Castelfranco Madonna The Three Philosophers
Giorgione
(born
Giorgio Barbarelli da Castelfranco ; c. 1477/8 – 1510 [ 1 ] ) was an
Italian
painter of the
High Renaissance
in
Venice .
Giorgione is known for the elusive poetic quality of his work, though
only about six surviving paintings are acknowledged for certain to be
his work. The resulting uncertainty about the identity and meaning of
his art has made Giorgione one of the most mysterious figures in
European painting.
Contents
1
Life 2
Works 3
Attributions 4
Assessment 5
Selected works 6
Gallery 7
See also 8
Notes 9
References 10
Further reading 11
External links
Life
The little known of Giorgione's life is given in
Giorgio Vasari 's
Vite . The painter came from the small town of
Castelfranco Veneto , 40 km inland from Venice. His name sometimes appears as
Zorzo . The variant
Giorgione
(or
Zorzon )
may be translated "Big George". How early in boyhood he went to Venice
we do not know, but stylistic evidence supports the statement of
Carlo Ridolfi
that he served his apprenticeship there under
Giovanni Bellini ; there he settled and made his fame.
Contemporary documents record that his gifts were recognized early.
In 1500, when he was only twenty-three (that is, if Vasari is correct
about his age when he died), he was chosen to paint portraits of the
Doge
Agostino Barbarigo
and the
condottiere
Consalvo Ferrante. In 1504 he was commissioned to paint an altarpiece
in memory of another condottiere, Matteo Costanzo, in the cathedral of
his native town, Castelfranco. In 1507 he received at the order of the
Council of Ten
part payment for a picture (subject not mentioned) on which he was engaged for the Hall of the Audience in the
Doge's Palace .
In 1507-1508 he was employed, with other artists of his generation, to
decorate with frescoes the exterior of the newly rebuilt
Fondaco dei Tedeschi
(or German Merchants' Hall) at Venice, having already done similar work
on the exterior of the Casa Soranzo, the Casa Grimani alli Servi and
other Venetian palaces. Very little of this work survives today.
Laura
(1506) Kunsthistorisches Museum , Vienna
Vasari mentions an important event in Giorgione's life, and one which had influence on his work, his meeting with
Leonardo da Vinci
on the occasion of the Tuscan master's visit to Venice in 1500. All
accounts agree in representing Giorgione as a person of distinguished
and romantic charm, a great lover and a musician, given to express in
his art the sensuous and imaginative grace, touched with poetic
melancholy, of the Venetian existence of his time. They represent him
further as having made in Venetian painting an advance analogous to that
made in Tuscan painting by Leonardo more than twenty years before; that
is, as having released the art from the last shackles of archaic
rigidity and placed it in possession of full freedom and the full
mastery of its means.
He was very closely associated with
Titian ;
Vasari says Giorgione was Titian's master, while Ridolfi says they both
were pupils of Bellini, and lived in his house. They worked together on
the Fondaco dei Tedeschi frescoes, and Titian finished at least some
paintings of Giorgione after his death, although which ones remains very
controversial.
Giorgione also introduced a new range of subjects. Besides
altarpieces
and
portraits
he painted pictures that told no story, whether biblical or classical,
or if they professed to tell a story, neglected the action and simply
embodied in form and color moods of lyrical or romantic feeling, much as
a musician might embody them in sounds. Innovating with the courage and
felicity of genius, he had for a time an overwhelming influence on his
contemporaries and immediate successors in the Venetian school,
including
Titian ,
Sebastiano del Piombo ,
Palma il Vecchio ,
il Cariani ,
Giulio Campagnola
(and his brother), and even on his already eminent master, Giovanni Bellini. In the Venetian mainland,
Giorgionismo
strongly influenced
Morto da Feltre , Domenico Capriolo, and Domenico Mancini.
Giorgione died, probably of the
plague
then raging, by October, 1510. October of 1510 is also the date of a letter by
Isabella d'Este
to a Venetian friend; asking him to buy a painting by Giorgione; in the
letter she is aware he is already dead. Significantly, the reply a
month later said the painting was not to be had at any price.
His name and work continue to exercise a spell on posterity. But to
identify and define, among the relics of his age and school, precisely
what that work is, and to distinguish it from the similar work of other
men whom his influence inspired, is a very difficult matter. Though
there are no longer any supporters of the "Pan Giorgionismus" [ 2 ]
which a century ago claimed for Giorgione nearly every painting of the
time that at all resembles his manner, there are still, as then,
exclusive critics who reduce to half a dozen the list of extant pictures
which they will admit to be actually by this master.
Works
Sleeping Venus
(c. 1510) Gemäldegalerie Alte Meister, Dresden
For his home town of Castelfranco, Giorgione painted the
Castelfranco Madonna , an
altarpiece
in
sacra conversazione
form —
Madonna
enthroned, with
saints
on either side forming an equilateral triangle. This gave the landscape
background an importance which marks an innovation in Venetian art, and
was quickly followed by his master
Giovanni Bellini
and others. [ 3 ]
Giorgione began to use the very refined
chiaroscuro
called
sfumato
— the delicate use of shades of color to depict light and perspective —
around the same time as Leonardo. Whether Vasari is correct in saying
he learned it from Leonardo's works is unclear — he is always keen to
ascribe all advances to Florentine sources. Leonardo's delicate color
modulations result from the tiny disconnected spots of paint that he
probably derived from
Illuminated manuscript
techniques and first brought into oil painting. These gave Giorgione's
works the magical glow of light for which they are celebrated.
Most central and typical of all of Giorgione's extant works is the
Sleeping Venus
now in
Dresden . It was first recognized by
Giovanni Morelli , and is now universally accepted, as being the same as the picture seen by
Marcantonio Michiel
and later by Ridolfi (his 17th century biographer) in the Casa Marcello
at Venice. An exquisitely pure and severe rhythm of line and contour
chastens the sensuous richness of the painting. The sweep of white
drapery on which the goddess lies; and the glowing landscape that fills
the space behind her; most harmoniously frame her divinity. The use of
an external landscape to frame a nude is innovative; but in addition, to
add to her mystery, she is shrouded in sleep, spirited away from
accessibility to any conscious expression.
It is recorded by Michiel that Giorgione left this piece unfinished and that the landscape, with a
Cupid
which subsequent restoration has removed, were completed after his
death by Titian. The picture is the prototype of Titian's own
Venus of Urbino
and of many more by other painters of the school; but none of them
attained the fame of the first exemplar. The same concept of idealized
beauty is evoked in a virginally pensive
Judith
from the
Hermitage Museum ,
a large painting which exhibits Giorgione's special qualities of color
richness and landscape romance, while demonstrating that life and death
are each other's companions rather than foes.
Apart from the altarpiece and the frescoes, all Giorgione's surviving
works are small paintings designed for the wealthy Venetian collector
to keep in his home; most are under two feet (60 cm) in either
dimension. This market had been emerging over the last half of the 15th
century in Italy, and was much better established in the
Netherlands ,
but Giorgione was the first major Italian painter to concentrate his
work on it to such an extent — indeed soon after his death the size of
paintings began to increase with the prosperity and palaces of the
patrons.
The Tempest
(c. 1508) Gallerie dell'Accademia, Venice, Italy
The Tempest
has been called the first
landscape
in the history of
Western painting . The subject of this painting is unclear, but its artistic mastery is apparent.
The Tempest
portrays a soldier and a breast-feeding woman on either side of a
stream, amid a city's rubble and an incoming storm. The multitude of
symbols in
The Tempest
offer many interpretations, but none is
wholly satisfying. Theories that the painting is about duality (city and
country, male and female) have been dismissed since
radiography
has shown that in the earlier stages of the painting the soldier to the left was a seated female nude. [ 4 ]
The Three Philosophers
is equally enigmatic and its attribution to Giorgione is still
disputed. The three figures stand near a dark empty cave. Sometimes
interpreted as symbols of
Plato's cave
or the
Three Magi ,
they seem lost in a typical Giorgionesque dreamy mood, reinforced by a
hazy light characteristic of his other landscapes, such as the
Pastoral Concert , now in the
Louvre .
The latter "reveals the Venetians' love of textures", because the
painter "renders almost palpable the appearance of flesh, fabric, wood,
stone, and foliage". [ 5 ]
The painting is devoid of harsh contours and its treatment of landscape
has been frequently compared to pastoral poetry, hence the title.
Giorgione and the young
Titian
revolutionized the genre of the
portrait
as well. It is exceedingly difficult and sometimes simply impossible to
differentiate Titian's early works from those of Giorgione. None of
Giorgione's paintings are signed and only one bears a reliable date: [ 6 ]
his portrait of
Laura
(1 June 1506), one of the first to be painted in the "modern manner",
distinguished by dignity, clarity, and sophisticated characterization.
Even more striking is the
Portrait of a Young Man
now in
Berlin ,
acclaimed by art historians for "the indescribably subtle expression of
serenity and the immobile features, added to the chiseled effect of the
silhouette and modeling". [ 5 ]
Few of the portraits attributed to Giorgione appear as
straightforward records of the appearance of a commissioning individual,
though it is perfectly possible that many are. Many can be read as
types designed to express a mood or atmosphere, and certainly many of
the examples of the portrait tradition Giorgione initiated appear to
have had this purpose, and not to have been sold to the sitter. The
subjects of his non-religious figure paintings are equally hard to
discern. Perhaps the first question to ask is whether there was intended
to be a specific meaning to these paintings that ingenious research can
hope to recover. Many art historians argue that there is not: "The best
evidence, perhaps, that Giorgione's pictures were not particularly
esoteric in their meaning is provided by the fact that while his
stylistic innovations were widely adopted, the distinguishing feature of
virtually all Venetian non-religious painting in the first half of the
16th century is the lack of learned or literary content". [ 7 ]
Attributions
The
Three Philosophers , Vienna. Attributed to Giorgione by Michiel, who said
Sebastiano del Piombo
finished it. Some modern writers also involve
Titian
in its completion.
The difficulty in making secure attributions of work by Giorgione's
hand dates from soon after his death, when some of his paintings were
completed by other artists, and his considerable reputation also led to
very early erroneous claims of attribution. The vast bulk of
documentation for paintings in this period relates to large commissions
for Church or government; the small domestic panels that make up the
bulk of Giorgione's oeuvre are always far less likely to be recorded.
Other artists continued to work in his style for some years, and
probably by the mid-century deliberately deceptive work had started. [ 8 ]
Primary documentation for attributions comes from the Venetian
collector Marcantonio Michiel. In notes dating from 1525 to 1543 he
identifies twelve paintings and one drawing as by Giorgione, of which
five of the paintings are identified virtually unanimously with
surviving works by art historians [ 9 ] :
The Tempest ,
The Three Philosophers ,
Sleeping Venus ,
Boy with an Arrow , [ 10 ]
and
Shepherd with a Flute
(not all accept the last as by Giorgione however). Michiel describes the
Philosophers
as having been completed by Sebastiano del Piombo, and the
Venus
as finished by Titian (it is now generally agreed that Titian did the
landscape). Some recent art historians also involve Titian in the
Three Philosophers . The
Tempest
is therefore the only one of the group universally accepted as wholly by Giorgione. In addition, the
Castelfranco Altarpiece
in his home-town has rarely, if ever, been doubted, nor have the
wrecked fresco fragments from the German warehouse. The Vienna
Laura
is the only work signed and dated by Giorgione (on the back). The early pair of paintings in the
Uffizi
are usually accepted.
Concert Champêtre
(Pastoral Concert) . Louvre , Paris. A work which the Louvre now attributes to
Titian , c. 1509. [ 11 ]
After that, things become more complicated, exemplified by
Vasari . In the first edition of the
Vite
(1550), he attributed a
Christ Carrying the Cross
to Giorgione; in the second edition completed in 1568 he ascribed
authorship, variously, to Giorgione in his biography, which was printed
in 1565, and to Titian in his, printed in 1567. He had visited Venice in
between these dates, and may have obtained different information. [ 12 ]
The uncertainty in distinguishing between the painting of Giorgione and the young Titian is most apparent in the case of the
Louvre
Concert Champêtre
(or
Pastoral Concert ), described in 2003 as "perhaps the most contentious problem of attribution in the whole of Italian Renaissance art", [ 13 ]
but affects a large number of paintings possibly from Giorgione's last years.
The
Concert Champêtre
is one of a small group of paintings, also including the
Virgin and Child with Saint Anthony and Saint Roch
in the
Prado , [ 14 ]
which are very close in style and, according to Charles Hope, have been
"more and more frequently given to Titian, not so much because of any
very compelling resemblance to his undisputed early works - which would
surely have been noted before - as because he seemed a less implausible
candidate than Giorgione. But no one has been able to create a coherent
sequence of Titian's early works that includes these ones, in a way that
commands general support, and fits the known facts of his career. An
alternative proposal is to assign the
Concert Champêtre
and the other pictures like it to a third artist, the very obscure Domenico Mancini..". [ 15 ]
Giulio Campagnola , well-known as the engraver who translated the Giorgionesque style into
prints ,
but none of whose paintings are securely identified, is also sometimes
also brought into consideration. For example, the late W.R. Rearick gave
him
Il Tramonte
(see Gallery) and he is an alternative choice
for a number of drawings that might be by Titian or Giorgione, and both
are sometimes credited with the design of some of his engravings. [ 16 ]
The Allendale Nativity/Adoration of the Shepherds
c. 1505 -
National Gallery of Art . The "Allendale Group" takes its name from this painting.
At an earlier period in Giorgione's short career, a group of
paintings is sometimes described as the "Allendale group", after the
Allendale Nativity
(or
Allendale Adoration of the Shepherds , rather more correctly) in the
National Gallery of Art, Washington . This group includes another Washington painting, the
Holy Family , and an
Adoration of the Magi
predella
panel in the
National Gallery, London . [ 17 ]
This group, now often expanded to include a very similar
Adoration of the Shepherds
in Vienna [ 18 ] , and sometimes further, are usually included (increasingly) or excluded together from Giorgione's oeuvre. Ironically, the
Allendale Nativity
caused the rupture in the 1930s between
Lord Duveen , who sold it to
Andrew Mellon
as a Giorgione, and his expert
Bernard Berenson ,
who insisted it was an early Titian. Berenson had played a significant
part in reducing the Giorgione catalogue, recognising fewer than twenty
paintings. [ 19 ]
Matters are further complicated because no drawing can be certainly
identified as by Giorgione (although one in Rotterdam is widely
accepted), and a number of aspects of the arguments over the defining of
Giorgione's late style involve drawings.
Despite being greatly praised by all contemporary writers, and
remaining a great name in Italy, Giorgione became less known to the
wider world, and many of his (probable) paintings were assigned to
others. The Hermitage
Judith
for example, was long regarded as a
Raphael , and the Dresden
Venus
a Titian. In the late 19th century a great Giorgione revival began, and
the fashion ran the other way. Despite well over a century of dispute,
controversy remains active. Large numbers of pictures attributed to
Giorgione a century ago, in particular portraits, are now firmly
excluded from his oeuvre, but debate is, if anything, more fierce now
than then. [ 20 ]
There are effectively two fronts on which the battles are fought:
paintings with figures and landscape, and portraits. According to David
Rosand in 1997, "The situation has been thrown into new critical
confusion by Alessandro Ballarin's radical revision of the corpus
...[Paris exhibition catalogue, 1993, increasing it] ... as well as
Mauro Lucco ..[Milan book, 1996]."
[ 21 ]
Recent major exhibitions at Vienna and Venice in 2004 and Washington in
2006, have given art historians further opportunities to see disputed
works side by side (see External links below).
[ edit ]
Assessment
Though he died at the young age of 33, Giorgione left a lasting
legacy to be developed by Titian and 17th-century artists. Giorgione
never subordinated line and colour to architecture, nor an artistic
effect to a sentimental presentation. He was the first to paint
landscapes with figures, the first to paint genre — movable pictures in
their own frames with no devotional, allegorical, or historical purpose —
and the first whose colours possessed that ardent, glowing, and melting
intensity which was so soon to typify the work of all the Venetian
School.
Selected works
Young Man with Arrow'
(1506) Kunsthistorisches Museum , Vienna
The Test of Fire of Moses
(1500–1501) -
Oil on panel, 89 x 72,
Uffizi ,
Florence The Judgement of Salomon
(1500–1501) -
Oil on panel, 89 x 72 cm, Uffizi, Florence Judith
(c. 1504)
- Oil on canvas, transferred from panel, 144 x 66,5 cm,
Hermitage Museum ,
St. Petersburg Adoration of the Shepherds
(1504) -
Oil on panel, 90.8 x 110.5 cm,
National Gallery of Art ,
Washington Madonna and Child Enthroned between St. Francis and St. Nicasius
( Castelfranco Madonna ; c. 1505)
- Oil on wood, 200 x 152 cm, Duomo,
Castelfranco Veneto The Tempest
(c. 1505)
- Oil on canvas, 82 x 73 cm,
Accademia , Venice Portrait of a Young Bride (Laura)
(c. 1506)
Oil on wood, 41 x 33,5 cm,
Kunsthistorisches Museum ,
Vienna La Vecchia (Old Woman)
(c. 1508)
- Oil on canvas, 68 x 59 cm,
Accademia , Venice Pastoral Concert
(c. 1508) widely now given to Titian - Oil on canvas, 110 x 138 cm,
Louvre , Paris Portrait of a Youth
(1508–10)
- Oil on canvas, 72,5 x 54 cm,
Museum of Fine Arts, Budapest The Three Philosophers
(1509)
- Oil on canvas,
Kunsthistorisches Museum , Vienna Portrait of Warrior with his Equerry
(c. 1509)
- Oil on canvas, 90 x 73 cm, Galleria degli Uffizi, Florence Sleeping Venus
(c. 1510)
- Oil on canvas, 108,5 x 175 cm,
Gemäldegalerie, Dresden The Impassioned Singer
(c. 1510)
- Oil on canvas, 102 x 78 cm,
Galleria Borghese , Rome Portrait of a Young Man
- Wood, 69,4 x 53,5 cm,
Alte Pinakothek, Munich
Gallery
The
Castelfranco Madonna , before recent cleaning. Giorgione's only altarpiece
One of the "Allendale group", the small
Adoration of the Magi
predella , London
La Vecchia , "The Old Woman",
Accademia . "Col tempo",or "With age" reads the paper.
Il Tramonte , London. Little known until the middle of the 20th century, and still a controversial attribution.
The
Berlin
Portrait of a Man , one of the most frequently attributed portraits
The
San Diego
Portrait of a Man , another of the more frequently attributed portraits
The
Budapest
Portrait of a Young Man , very beautiful, but damaged.
Portrait of a Venetian Gentleman , by Giorgione and
Titian
1510 -
National Gallery of Art
[ edit ]
See also
Renaissance painting High Renaissance
Notes
^
Gould, 102-3. Vasari's 1st edition had the former, his 2nd the latter.
There is no documentary evidence, and Vasari gets his date of death,
which is known, wrong by a year. ^
An old art historians' jibe
JSTOR ^
Teresa Pignati in Jane Martineau (ed),
The Genius of Venice, 1500-1600 , pp. 29-30, 1983, Royal Academy of Arts, London. ^
The Tempest ^
a
b
2006 Britannica ^
Brown, D. A., Ferino Pagden, S., Anderson, J., & Berrie, B. H. (2006).
Bellini, Giorgione, Titian, and the Renaissance of Venetian painting . Washington: National Gallery of Art.
ISBN 0300116772
p. 42 ^
Charles Hope in Jane Martineau (ed),
The Genius of Venice, 1500-1600 , 1983, p. 35, Royal Academy of Arts, London ^
Cecil Gould , The Sixteenth Century Italian Schools, National Gallery Catalogues, London 1975, p. 107,
ISBN 0947645225 ^
http://www.britannica.com/ebc/article-2710
EB online ^
Vienna, illustrated below. Described in 2007 as "a rare example of a
painting still universally attributed to Giorgione" in Lucy Whitaker,
Martin Clayton,
The Art of Italy in the Royal Collection; Renaissance and Baroque , p.185, Royal Collection Publications, 2007,
ISBN 978 1 902163 291 . ^
From the Louvre Museum Official Website
It is often called the
Fête Champêtre
(meaning "Picnic") in older works. ^
Charles Hope in David Jaffé (ed),
Titian , The National Gallery Company/Yale, p.12, London 2003,
ISBN 1 857099036 ^
Charles Hope in David Jaffé (ed),
Titian , The National Gallery Company/Yale, p.14, London 2003,
ISBN 1 857099036 ^
Listed as "Giorgione (?)" in the 1996 Prado catalogue, which notes the
debate, but in 2007 labelled as Titian in the gallery. See
Museo del Prado, Catálogo de las pinturas , 1996, p.129, Ministerio de Educación y Cultura, Madrid, No ISBN. ^
Hope in ed Jaffé,
Titian , 2003, op cit,p.14. Francis Richardson, who wrote the catalogue entry for the Prado painting (no. 34) in: Jane Martineau (ed),
The Genius of Venice, 1500-1600 ,
1983, Royal Academy of Arts, London, after considering Mancini, is one
of those happy to attribute the painting to Titian. The Mancini
suggestion comes originally from an German article of 1933 by J. Wilde:
'Die Probleme um Domenico Mancini', JKSW ^
John Dixon Hunt (ed),
The Pastoral Landscape , National Gallery of Art, Washington, 1992, pp 146-7,
ISBN 0894681818 ^
NGA 2006 exhibition brochure, page 4 ^
Kunthistoriches Museum 2004 exhibition website ^
"his works...not a score in all" in
Italian Painters of the Renaissance , 1952, (many editions). By the last (1957) edition of his
Lists , Berenson had changed his mind and listed all the three main "Allendale" works as "by Giorgione" - see Gould op cit p.105. ^
See the
Art Journal
review of a major 1993 Paris exhibition, which lists some Ballarin additions to the corpus
by Wendy Stedman Sheard ^
David Rosand,
Painting in Sixteenth-Century Venice , 2nd edn. 1997, p. 186, n. 74; Cambridge University Press, ISBN 05215656885 For some Ballarin attributions, see previous note.
References
This article incorporates text from the
Encyclopædia Britannica , Eleventh Edition , a publication now in the
public domain . Gould, Cecil ,
The Sixteenth Century Italian Schools , National Gallery Catalogues, London 1975,
ISBN 0947645225 Encyclopedia of Artists, volume 2 , edited by William H.T. Vaughan,
ISBN 0-19-521572-9 , 2000
Further reading
The Complete Paintings of Giorgione . Introduction by Cecil Gould. Notes by Pietro Zampetti. NY: Harry N. Abrams. 1968. Giorgione. Atti del Convegno internazionale di studio per il quinto centenario della nascita (Castelfranco Veneto 1978) , Castelfranco Veneto, 1979. Silvia Ferino-Pagden,
Giorgione. Mythos und Enigma , Ausst. Kat. Kunsthistorisches Museum Wien, Wien, 2004. Sylvia Ferino-Pagden (Hg.),
Giorgione entmythisiert , Turnhout, Brepols, 2008. Unglaub, Jonathan. "The Concert Champêtre: The Crises of History and the Limits of the Pastoral."
Arion
V no.1 (1997): 46-96.
External links
Wikimedia Commons has media related to:
Giorgione
David Allen Brown Introduction to 2006 Washington exhibition Giorgione,Myth and Enigma , 2004 exhibition at the Kunsthistorisches Museum, Vienna. Good images and text on "Selected paintings" Colnaghi - an important Giorgionesque drawing, with list of the main literature on his drawings Ticiano
Origem: Wikipédia, a enciclopédia livre.
Auto-retrato
Ticiano Vecellio
ou
Vecelli
( Pieve di Cadore
cerca de
1473 / 1490
-
Veneza
27 de Agosto
de
1576 ) foi um dos principais representantes da escola
veneziana
no
Renascimento
antecipando diversas características do
Barroco
e até do
Modernismo . Ele também é conhecido como
Tizian Vecellio De Gregorio ,
Tiziano ,
Titian
ou ainda como
Titien . [1]
Reconhecido por seus contemporâneos como "o sol entre as estrelas",
Tiziano foi um dos mais versáteis pintores italianos, igualmente bom em
retratos ou paisagens, temas mitológicos ou religiosos.
Se tivesse morrido cedo, teria sido conhecido como um dos mais
influentes artistas do seu tempo, mas como viveu quase um século,
mudando tão drasticamente seu modo de pintar, vários críticos demoram a
acreditar se tratar do mesmo artista. O que une as duas partes de sua
obra é seu profundo interesse pela cor, sua modulação policromática é
sem precedentes na
arte
ocidental .
Índice
1
Biografia
1.1
Infância 1.2
Primeiros trabalhos 1.3
Crescimento 1.4
Maturidade 1.5
Últimos anos
2
Familiares e alunos 3
Localização das obras 4
Bibliografia 5
Referências 6
Ver também
Biografia
Vênus de Urbino
Infância
Tiziano era um dos quatro filhos de Gregório Vecelli, destacado
soldado e funcionário do estado, e de sua esposa Lúcia. Perto dos dez
anos de idade foi levado por seu irmão, o também pintor Francesco
Vecellio, para
Veneza , onde entrou como aprendiz de Sebastian Zuccato, celebre por seus mosáicos. Após quatro ou cinco anos passou ao estúdio de
Giovanni Bellini ,
naquele tempo o mais notável artista da cidade. Ali entrou para um
grupo de jovens que incluia Palma de Serinalta, Lorenzo Lotto,
Sebastiano Luciani e
Giorgione . [2]
Primeiros trabalhos
Um afresco de
Hércules
no palácio Morosini é tido como um dos seus primeiros trabalhos, assim como
A Virgem e a Criança
no Belvedere Viena, e
A Visitação de Maria e Isabel , do convento de Santo André, hoje na Academia de Veneza.
Tiziano formou uma parceria com
Giorgione , e é difícil distinguir seus trabalhos iniciais. O primeiro só de Ticiano, reconhecidamente, é um pequeno
Ecce Homo
da escola de São Roque. Os dois jovens mestres foram logo reconhecidos como líderes de sua nova escola
moderna ,
que tornou suas pinturas mais flexiveis, livres da simetria e das
convenções hierárquicas que ainda estavam presentes nas obras de
Bellini.
Em
1507
Giorgione foi comissionado para executar os afrescos na reerguida
Fondaco de Tedeschi
(de uma corporação de comerciantes alemães), onde Tiziano e Feltre
trabalharam, restando alguns fragmentos reconhecidos como seus pelas
gravuras de Fontana.
O talento de Tiziano apareceu nos afrescos que ele pintou em
1511
para a igreja das Carmelitas em
Pádua , alguns preservados como
Encontro no Portão Dourado
e tres cenas da vida de Santo Antônio na escola do Santos. Em
1513
retorna a Veneza e após
1516
obtem uma patente na
Fondaco de Tedeschi ,
espécie de cargo público, tornando-se superintendente de serviços do
governo, com uma renda razoável, especialmente para terminar trabalhos
de
Bellini , que morrera, no hall do palácio ducal. Ele se instalou num ateliê no Grande Canal e trabalhou para cinco
Doges
sucessivos.
Crescimento
Detalhe da
Anunciação , atualmente em
Bréscia
Giorgione morreu em
1510
e Bellini, ja ancião, em
1516 ,
deixando Tiziano, já com algumas obras de vulto em seu curriculo, sem
rival na escola veneziana. Por sessenta anos ele foi o líder absoluto e
indisputado, o mestre oficial e o pintor laureado da Sereníssima
República de Veneza.
Durante este período ( 1516
-
1530 ),
que podemos chamar de crescimento até a maturidade, o artista
libertou-se das tradições de sua juventude, procurando personagens mais
complexos e, pela primeira vez tentando um estilo monumental. Em
1518
produziu para o altar da igreja de Fran
A Consumação da Madona , hoje na Academia Veneziana, que excitava os sentidos, começando uma peça multicolorida numa escala tão grande como a
Itália
ainda não vira.
O tema da
Consumação , unindo na mesma composição duas ou três
cenas em diferentes níveis, como céu e terra, temporal e infinito,
continuou numa série de trabalhos como o retábulo de
São Domingos
em
Ancona
(1520), o retábulo de
Bréscia
(1522), e o retábulo de
São Nicolau
do
Vaticano
(1523), cada um a seu tempo visando uma concepção mais perfeita, finalmente alcançando uma forma insuperável no retábulo de
Pesaro
(1526), na igreja de Frari. Este é talvez o mais perfeito e mais
estudado de seus trabalhos, pacientemente desenvolvido com uma
disposição suprema de ordem e liberdade, originalidade e estilo. Aqui
Tiziano deu uma nova concepção ao tradicional grupo de personagens
santas movendo-se pelo espaço da obra, os planos e diferentes degraus
numa trama arquitetônica.
Tiziano Vecelli estava agora no pico de sua
fama , e em
1521 , seguindo-se à produção de um
São Sebastião
para o legado papal em
Bréscia
(trabalho que possui inúmeras réplicas), as encomendas avolumaram-se. Um dos mais extraordinários trabalhos deste período foi
A deposição de São Pedro
(1530), primeiramente na igreja dominicana de San Zanipolo e destruída em uma luta com a
Áustria
em 1867, e da qual só restam cópias. A associação da paisagem com uma
cena de morte mostra uma tragédia sobressaltada, patética, como nem
Tintoretto
ou
Delacroix
souberam fazer.
Continuou simultaneamente com sua série de pequenas
Madonas
que ele elaborava com belas paisagens à maneira pastoral, sendo
A Virgem com o coelho
atualmente no
Louvre , o exemplo acabado dessas imagens. Também do mesmo período é
Entombment , igualmente no Louvre. Foi igualmente o período de séries de temas mitológicos, como
Bacanais
de
Madri , e
Baco e Ariadne
de
Londres , talvez a mais brilhante obra do neo-paganismo do
Renascimento ,
muito imitada mas nunca superada. Finalmente, foi neste período de
maestria que Tiziano compôs os retratos e bustos de jovens, como
Flora
nos
Uffizi
ou
Jovem no toucador
no Louvre.
Em
1525 ,
após um pouco de vida desregrada e a conseqüente agitação, sossegou
casando-se com Cecília, talvez para legitimar seu primeiro filho
Pomponio e os dois ou três que o seguiram. Mas cedo ela perece, durante o
parto de Lavinia (1530), causando grande aflição ao mestre. Ele se muda
para uma nova casa em Bin Grande, então um lugar muito bom, com ótimos
jardins e uma vista de Murano, chama sua irmã Orsa para cuidar das
crianças e busca tranqüilidade. É dessa época o retrato de
Pietro Aretino
que envia a Gonzaga, duque de
Mântua . [3]
Maturidade
Retrato do Imperador Carlos V
Durante o próximo período (1530 - 1550), como já se esboçava no seu
Martírio de São Pedro , Tiziano se devotou mais e mais a um
estilo
dramático. Desta época é a representação da cena histórica da
Batalha de Cadore , infelizmente desfigurada ou mutilada em sua maior parte, mas que mostra o esforço do artista de se superar. Como
A Guerra de Pisa ,
A Batalha de Anghiari
e
A Batalha de Constantinopla
foram consumidas pelo fogo que ardeu no Palácio do Doge. Existe apenas
uma cópia pobre e incompleta no Uffizi e uma medíocre gravura por
Fontana.
Do mesmo modo
O Discurso do Marques de Vasto , de
1541
em
Madri , foi parcialmente destruído por fogo, mas essa vertente de sua obra está bem representada por
Apresentação da Virgem Sagrada
(1539) hoje em Veneza, um de seus mais famosos quadros, e por
Ecce Homo
(1541), em
Viena , uma das mais patéticas e longevas de suas obras-primas.
Menos sucesso fez a série de afrescos da
cúpula
de Santa Maria da Saúde, como
A Morte de Abel ,
Sacrifício de Abrão
e
Davi e Golias . Essas cenas violentas, vistas por baixo, como na
Capela Sistina , estão numa posição desfavorável à observação. Foram no entanto admiradas e imitadas,
Rubens , entre outros, usou esse sistema na igreja
Jesuita
de
Antuérpia .Também deste tempo, época de sua visita a
Roma , é o começo da série das Venus reclinadas, como
A Venus de Urbino
e
Venus e Eros , ambas no Uffizi e
Venus e o Organista ,
em Madri, no qual se reconhece o efeito direto do contato do mestre com
esculturas antigas. Giorgione já tinha utilizado esse tema, mas aqui um
drapeado vermelho é suficiente, por seu colorido, para mudar o sentido
da cena.
Tiziano tinha ainda, desde o início de sua carreira mostrado ser um mestre em
retratos , em trabalhos como
La Bella
(Eleanora Gonzaga, Duquesa de Urbino), hoje no palácio Pitti. Ele
pintou inúmeros príncipes, doges, cardeais, monges e artistas, teve
muito sucesso em extrair de cada fisionomia os traços que a
caracterizavam. Como retratista, Tiziano é comparavél a
Rembrandt
e
Velásquez . Suas qualidades são manifestas em obras como
Paulo III , em
Nápoles
ou a cena do mesmo papa com seus sobrinhos,
Aretino , no palácio Pitti, e
Eleanora de Portugal , em Madri, ou a série de
Carlos V
do mesmo local, o
Carlos V com Cão de Caça
(1533) e
Carlos V em Muhlberg
(1548), uma pintura equestre com uma sinfonia de vermelhos que é o
nom plus ultra
da arte de pintar. Carlos V honrou Tiziano nomeando-o conde palatino e
cavaleiro do galão dourado, seus filhos foram feitos nobres do império, o
que para um pintor daquela época era uma honra extraordinária.
O governo de Veneza não ficou tão contente com a negligencia de seu
trabalho no palácio ducal e ordenou que devolvesse o dinheiro recebido,
nomeando
Pordenone
para seu lugar (1538). No entanto este morre em menos de um ano, e
tendo Tiziano se aplicado, enquanto isso diligentemente em pintar
A Batalha de Cadore ,
teve seu cargo restaurado. Esta figura, que como tantas outras pereceu
no incêndio do palácio em 1577, representava em tamanho real o momento
em que o comandante veneziano D'Alviano enfrentava o inimigo, com homens
e cavalos se chocando sobre um riacho.
Como sucesso profissional e mundano, a esse tempo, sua posição só pode ser comparada a
Rafael ,
Michelangelo
ou mais tarde
Rubens . Tiziano visitava sua terra natal de Cadore todo ano, onde era influente e generoso. Tinha uma vila favorita na colina de
Manza , onde se supõe tenha feito observações sobre as formas e efeitos da paisagem.
Em 1546 visitou Roma, onde obteve a honraria de receber a chave da
cidade, seu predecessor imediato em tal homenagem tinha sido
Michelangelo em 1537. Em 1547 foi até
Augsburg
pintar Carlos V e outros nobres do império. estava lá ainda em 1550, quando executou um retrato de
Filipe II
que foi enviado à
Inglaterra
e se provou um excelente auxiliar para conseguir a mão da Rainha
Maria I da Inglaterra
em casamento.
Últimos anos
Mãe dolorosa em oração
Durante os últimos anos de sua vida (1550 - 1576) o artista mais e
mais absorvido em seu rendoso trabalho como retratista, e também mais
crítico e perfecionista, terminou poucos grandes trabalho. Alguns
ficaram dez anos no estúdio, sendo retocadas e retomadas, constantemente
adicionando expressões , concisão e sutileza.
Para cada problema estético que se apresentava, ele elaborava uma
nova e mais perfeita fórmula. Ele nunca igualou a emoção e tragédia da
Coroação de Espinhos , hoje no Louvre; na expressão do divino e do mistério, nada mais poético que
Peregrinação de Emaú.
Nunca fez nada mais brilhante e grande que
O Doge Grimani
de Veneza ou
A Trindade
em Madri.
Em outro ponto de vista, ele também não fez nada mais movimentado que algumas pinturas de sua velhice, como
Dam em Madri,
Antiope no Louvre ou o
Rapto de Europa . Deteve-se ainda no problema do
chiaroscuro
em fantásticos efeitos noturnos em
O Martírio de São Lourenço
ou no
São Geronimo .
No domínio do real ele sempre permaneceu forte e seguro, e seu próprio
mestre, como nos retratos de sua filha Lavinia e em seus auto-retratos.
Vecelli comprometeu sua filha, a bela garota que ele amou
profundamente, com Cornelio Sarcinelli de Serravale. Ela tinha sucedido a
tia Orsa como governante da casa. O casamento ocorreu em 1554 e ela
tristemente morreu de parto como a mãe em 1560. Tiziano estava no
Conselho de Trento
em 1556, com sua pintura ou os esboços no Louvre mostram.
Seu amigo Aretino morre repentinamente em 1556. Em setembro de 1565
vem até Cadore e projeta a decoração da igreja de Pieve, parcialmente
executada por seus aprendizes. Uma dessas é uma
Transfiguração
que ostenta a inscrição
Titianus fecit , como resposta aos críticos que diziam que a mão do mestre não era mais a mesma.
Continuou a aceitar encomendas até o fim. Tinha selecionado o local
de seu túmulo na capela do Crucifixo na igreja de Fran, e como
retribuição da permissão, ofereceu aos
franciscanos
um quadro da
Pietá , representando a si mesmo e seu filho Horácio, mas não o terminou. Tiziano Vecelli se aproximava dos cem anos quando a
peste
apareceu em Veneza, matando o mestre em 27 de agosto de 1576. Enterrado na
Basílica de Santa Maria Gloriosa dei Frari , foi a única vítima da
peste negra
a ser sepultada numa igreja, e repousa perto de sua
Madona de Ca'Pesaro . Seu filho morreu da mesma epidemia e ladrões saquearam sua casa, aproveitando a desordem da época.
Familiares e alunos
Retrato de
Pietro Aretino
Vários outros artistas da família Vecelli navegaram nas águas de
Tiziano, como seu irmão Francesco, o sobrinho Marco di Tiziano, que
frequentava a casa do tio, Frabizio di Ettore, de outro ramo da família,
Tommaso Vecelli e Girolamo di Tiziano. Varias obras foram retocadas
pelo mestre mas nenhum lhe fez sombra. Entre seus numerosos aprendizes,
destacaram-se Paris Bordone e Bonifazio com sua excelência. Domenico
Theotocopuli, melhor conhecido como
El Greco ,
foi empregado como encarregado de fazer gravuras de suas pinturas. Ele
disse que muitas vezes o próprio Tiziano gravava no cobre ou na madeira.
Localização das obras
Relação dos
museus
que contém obras de Tiziano .
Louvre ,
Paris ;
A Virgem com o coelho ,
Entombment ,
Jovem no toucador ,
Antiope ,
Coroação de Espinhos ,
Conselho de Trento ,
Museu de Arte de São Paulo ,
São Paulo ;
Retrato do Cardeal Cristoforo Madruzzo
Galleria degli Uffizi ,
Florença ;
A Venus de Urbino ,
Flora ,
Venus e Eros
Hermitage ,
São Petersburgo ;
Fitzwilliam Museum,
Cambridge ;
Fondazione Magnani-Rocca,
Parma ;
Galleria Borghese ,
Roma ;
Galleria dell'Accademia ,
Veneza ;
A Visitação de Maria e Isabel ,
A Consumação da Madona ,
Apresentaçãp da Virgem Sagrada ,
Ecce Homo ,
O Doge Grimani ,
Galleria di Capodimonte ,
Nápoles ;
Paulo III
Museu do Vaticano ;
Museo do Prado ,
Madri ;
Eleonora de Portugal ,
Carlos V com Cão de Caça ,
Carlos V em Muhlberg ,
O Discurso do Marques de Vasto ,
A Trindade ,
Museu de Belas Artes,
Budapeste ;
National Gallery of Scotland ,
Edimburgo ;
National Gallery (Londres) ,
Londres ;
Palazzo Pitti ,
Florença ;
La Bella ,
Aretino
Scuola Grande di San Rocco,
Veneza ;
Wallace Collection ,
Londres .
Bibliografia
Este artigo é a tradução do verbete
Titian
da Wikipedia em língua inglesa, que por sua vez se baseia nas seguintes fontes:
Vasari ,
Le Vite ; Catholic Encyclopedia ; Cecil Gould, The Sixteenth Century Italian Schools, National Gallery Catalogues, London 1975,
ISBN 0-947645-22-5 ; David Jaffé (ed), Titian, The National Gallery Company/Yale, London 2003,
ISBN 1 857099036 ; R. F. Heath, Life of Titan, page 5.
Referências
↑
Artehistória ↑
Pitoresco ↑
Augusto Gentili Tiziano , pg 7
Ver também
Pintura da Renascença Italiana História da pintura
O
Wikimedia Commons
possui
multimedia
sobre
Ticiano
Andrea Sansovino
Origem: Wikipédia, a enciclopédia livre.
Ir para:
navegação ,
pesquisa
O batismo de Cristo .
Museo dell'Opera del Duomo , Florença
Andrea Coducci , chamado
Andrea Sansovino
( Florença , c. 1467 - 1529) foi um
arquiteto
e
escultor
da
Itália .
Seu estilo mostra a transição da terceira fase do
Renascimento
para a Alta Renascença. Sua primeira composição importante foi o
Altar do Sacramento
(1485-90) na
Igreja do Espírito Santo
em Florença, com uma alta qualidade artesanal e uma grande ênfase nas emoções. Passou vários anos em
Portugal , e em 1502 estava de novo em Florença, quando começou o grupo do
Batismo de Cristo , instalado na fachada do
Batistério de São João ,
cujo tratamento elegante, sóbrio e dignificado, junto com a grande
beleza dos corpos, o torna uma das primeiras obras importantes da Alta
Renascença. Também compôs uma série de frisos policromos para a
Villa Medicea di Poggio a Caiano . Em 1505 foi para
Roma
contratado pelo
papa Júlio II
para executar duas tumbas quase idênticas para os cardeais
Ascanio Sforza
e
Girolamo della Rovere
na
Igreja de Santa Maria del Popolo ,
completadas em 1509 e consideradas suas obras mais originais. Sua
última grande encomenda foi supervisionar a construção de vários
edifícios na cidade de
Loreto
e a decoração da Santa Casa local, para onde esculpiu um relevo da
Anunciação
de grande riqueza plástica. A suavidade e graça de seu estilo foi um contraponto à inclinação ao drama de
Michelangelo . [1]
Ver também
Escultura do Renascimento italiano Renascimento
O
Wikimedia Commons
possui uma
categoria
contendo imagens e outros ficheiros sobre
Andrea Sansovino
Referências
↑
Andrea Sansovino . Encyclopædia Britannica Online. 13 Jan. 2010
Antonio da Correggio
Origem: Wikipédia, a enciclopédia livre.
Madona com São Jerônimo
Correggio
é como era conhecido o pintor italiano
Antônio Allegri
( Correggio , c. 1489
- Idem,
5 de março
de
1534 ). Foi um pintor da
Renascença
italiana, contemporâneo de
Leonardo
e
Rafael , com obras nos principais museus de todo o mundo.
Índice
1
História 2
Obras baseadas na mitologia 3
Personalidade 4
Obras 5
Ligações externas 6
Bibliografia 7
Ver também
História
Teto da câmara da Abadessa, São Paulo de Parma
Antônio Allegri nasceu em
Correggio , uma cidade italiana na
Reggio Emília .
A data de seu nascimento é incerta (cerca de 1489) e era filho de um
comerciante. Sua infância e seus primeiros passos na pintura sào pouco
conhecidos,
Giorgio Vasari
escreveu no seu livro
Vite
que era uma família muito pobre, mas sabe-se que de 1503 até 1505 foi aprendiz de Francesco Bianchi Ferrara em
Modena , onde provavelmente conheceu o classicismo de
Lorenzo Costa
e
Francesco Francia , o que pode ser reconhecido nos seus primeiros trabalhos. Depois de uma viagem a
Mântua
em 1506, retornou e permaneceu em Correggio até 1510. Nesse período é assinalada a obra
Adoração do Menino com Santa Isabel e São João , que mostra claras influências de Costa e
Mantegna .
Em 1514 ele provavelmente pintou tres obras para a entrada da igreja de
Santo André em Mantua, voltando a Correggio, onde contratou a execução
do
altar de Nossa Senhora
no monastério franciscano local (atualmente em
Dresden ). Em 1516 Antônio se encontrava em
Parma , onde se tornou amigo de M.Anselmi, um dos principais pintores
maneiristas . Permaneceu ali até 1530.
Domo da catedral de Parma
Em 1519, casou-se com Girolama Francesca di Braghetis, também de Correggio. que faleceu em 1529. Desse período são
Madona e o Menino com São João criança ,
Cristo deixando sua Mãe
e a perdida
Madona de Albinea .
A primeira grande encomenda a Correggio foi para pintar o teto da
sala de jantar da abadessa do convento de São Paulo, em Parma. Ele
pintou uma maravilhosa árvore formando um pergolado, com imagens
adoraveis em óculos, lembrando o frescor da
Vila Farnese
em
Roma
. Pintou a ilusionista
Visão de São João em Patmos
(1520-1521) para o domo da igreja de
São João Evangelista . Três anos depois decorou o domo da catedral de Parma com a brilhante
Ascensão da Virgem ,
coroada com camadas de anjos em perspectiva. A complexidade deste
trabalho e sua sugestão de um infinito divino foi inovadora. Muitos
afrescos foram executados como se fossem uma tela. Outras obras-primas
incluem
A Lamentação
e
O Martirio de Quatro Santos , atualmente em Parma. Trabalhou também em suas obras sobre mitologia, melhor descritas a seguir.
Em 15 de março de 1534, morre em sua cidade natal e foi sepultado na
igreja de São Francisco. Vasari conta que o pintor foi acometido de uma
forte febre quando retornava a Parma para receber o dinheiro de uma
encomenda.
Sómente para situar Correggio em sua época, lembremos que
Alexandre VI , nascido na
Espanha
com o nome de Rodrigo Bórgia, era o papa da época, e sua filha
Lucrécia
(1480-1519 ), era casada com Alfonso d'Este, Duque de
Ferrara
e
Módena ,
embora diziam ter frequentado também a cama de Francisco Gonzaga, Duque
de Mantua. Allegro foi contemporâneo ainda de grandes nomes como
Leonardo
,
Michelangelo
, Rafael
, entre tantos grandes, e se quinhentos anos depois ainda se guarda sua memória, é por ter seu valor.
Obras baseadas na mitologia
Júpter e Io
Além de suas obras religiosas, Antônio de Correggio produziu uma série obras baseadas na mitologia, centrada nos
Amores de Jupiter , como descrito nas
Metamorfoses
de
Ovidio . Foram encomendadas por Francisco Gonzaga de Mantua , para decorar a
Sala de Ovidio
no
Pallazzo Te . Entretanto foram presenteadas a
Carlos V
, o rei da Espanha que também dominava o Sacro Império, e deixaram a
Itália
pela
Áustria
.
Leda e o Cisne , está atualmente em
Berlim .
Danae se encontra na
Galeria Borghese
em
Roma .
Ganimedes
e sua obra parceira,
Jupiter e Io , magníficas, estão em
Viena .
Personalidade
Antônio Allegri era descrito por seus contemporâneos como sombrio,
melancólico e introspectivo, provavelmente por sua infância numa família
pobre e numerosa. Correggio foi um artísta eclético, não sendo possível
identificar uma linha única entre suas obras.
Parece que emergiu sem um aprendizado maior, e não teve sucessores ou
aprendizes conhecidos, mas suas obras são consideradas como
revolucionárias e influentes em artistas posteriores. Um século depois
de sua morte, suas obras eram bem conhecidas por
Vasari , o grande historiador da arte da época, que disse sentir por não ter havido exposição suficiente de sua obra em
Roma .
Nos séculos XVIII e XIX, suas obras foram frequentemente citadas nos
diarios de visitantes estrangeiros, o que mostra a revalorização de sua
arte durante o
Romantismo . O vôo da Madona na cupula da catedral de Parma inspirou varias decorações em locais leigos e religiosos.
Obras
O
Wikimedia Commons
possui
multimedia
sobre
Antonio da Correggio
Madona
(1512-14) - Castelo Sforza, Milão Adoração dos Magos
(1516-18) - Pinacoteca de Brera, Milão Ecce Homo
- National Gallery, Londres O Casamento Místico de Santa Catarina
(1510-15) - National Gallery of Art, Washington Madona com São Francisco
(1514) - Gemäldegalerie, Dresden Madona de Albinea
(1514) - perdida A Virgem e o Menino com um anjo ( Madona do Latte) - Budapest Madona e o Menino com São João criança
(1516) - Museu del Prado, Madri O Descanso durante a fuga do Egito com São Francisco
(1517) - Galleria degli Uffizi. Florença Retrato de um cavalheiro
(1517-19) - Hermitage, são Petresburgo A Adoração do Menino
(1518-20) - Galleria degli Uffizi. Florença Sala de São Paulo
(1519) - Convento de São Paulo, Parma O Casamento miístico de Santa Catarina
(c.1520) - Louvre, Paris Ascensão de São João
(1520-24) - Igreja de São João Evangelista, parma Madona com São Jeronimo
(c. 1522) - Galleria Nazionale, Parma Madona do Scalla
(c. 1523) - idem Deposição da cruz
(1525) - idem Noli me Tangere
(c. 1525) - Museu del Prado, Madri Assunção da Virgem
(1526-30) - Catedral de Parma Natividade
(1528-30) - Gemäldegalerie, Dresden A Educação de Cupido
(c. 1528) - National Gallery, Londres Venus e Cupido com um sátiro
(c. 1528) - Louvre, Paris Madona com São Jorge
(1530-32) - Gemäldegalerie, Dresden Ganimedes"(1531-32) -
Kunsthistorisches Museum ,
Viena Jupiter e Io
(1531-32) - idem Leda e o cisne
(1531-32) - Staatliche Museen, Berlin Danae
c. 1531) -
Galleria Borghese ,
Roma Alegoria da Virtude
(c. 1532-34) - Louvre, París
Ligações externas
Vasari Enciclopédia Católica Exposição na
Galeria Borghese
Bibliografia
Roberto Longhi,
Il Correggio e la Camera di San Paolo a Parma , Genova 1956 R. Longhi,
Le fasi del Correggio giovine e l'esigenza del suo viaggio a Roma , in "Paragone", maggio 1958, pp. 34-53, ripubbl. in
Da Cimabue a Morandi, saggi di storia della pittura italiana scelti e ordinati da Gianfranco Contini , Milano 1978, pp. 711-726 P.Piva, E. Dal Canto,
Dal Correggio a Giulio Romano. La committenza di Gregorio Cortese , Mantova 1989 D. Ekserdjian,
Correggio , Silvana Editoriale, Milano 1997. M. Di Giampaolo,
Correggio disegnatore , Milano 2001 Carrassat, P.F.R.,
Maestros de la pintura , Spes Editorial, S.L., 2005.
ISBN 84-8332-597-7 Deswarte, S., «Correggio», en
Diccionario Larousse de la Pintura , I, Planeta-Agostini, Barcelona, 1987.
ISBN 84-395-0649-X Pérez Sánchez, A.E., «La pintura del "Cinquecento". El Manierismo en Italia», en
Historia del arte , Anaya, Madrid, 1986.
ISBN 84-207-1408-9
Ver também
História da pintura Pintura da Renascença Italiana Parte 3 Dürer Cranach Mabus Aitdorfer Grünewald: Altar de Isenheim m. Bosch Parte 4: Holbin Cellini Parmigianino Paladio Tintoretto Bruegel Giovanni da Bologna El Greco Hilliard Parte 5: Carracci Caravaggio Il Gesú, roma Reni Rubens Possin Van Dyck (Vandyke) Velázquez Claude Lorrain Parte 6: Hals Van Goyen Vieger Rembrandt Kalf Steen Ruisdael Vermeer Parte 7: Bernini Berromini Tepolo Guardi Parte 8: Versalles Wattea Hildebrandt Melk Parte 9: Wren Hogarth Chardin Reynolds Gainsborough Fragonard Houdon Parte 10: Copley Goya David Blake Friedrich Turner Constable Monticello Parte 11: Hokusai Ingress Delacroix Millet Coubet Rossetti Pisarro Manet Whistler Degas Monet Rodin Renoir Parte 12: Cézanne Gauguin Van Gogh Seurat Lautrec Berdsley Parte 13: Rousseau Munch Kandinsky Bonnard Matisse Wright Barlach Parte 14: Feininger Mondrian Klee Picasso Gropius n. Kokoschka n. Chagall n. Moore Calder Giacometti n. Dali Part 15: Schwitters n. Marini Kline Pollock Da Staël n. Soulages FATOS HISTÓRICOS IMPORTANTES NO PERÍODO: Imperador Maximiliano I Papa Júlio II Henrique VIII da Inglaterra Papa Leão X Francisco I da França Reforma de Lutero Imperador Carlos V Fundação Companhia de Jesua Filipe II da espanha Elizabete I da Inglaterra Ascensão da República Holandesa Shakespeare Guerra os Trinta Anos Carlos I da Inglaterra Luis XIV da França Incêncio de Londres Declaração da Independência Revolução Francesa Imperador Napoleão I Revoluções Européias Ruskin William Morris Invenção da Fotografia (primeiros daguerreótipos) Freud I Guerra Mundial II Gerra Mndial
Postado por
Jak Jony Faria Mota
às
08:19
Nenhum comentário:
Enviar por e-mail BlogThis! Compartilhar no Twitter Compartilhar no Facebook Compartilhar com o Pinterest
Postagens mais recentes
Postagens mais antigas
Página inicial
Assinar:
Postagens (Atom)
Imagens da Arte
Amigos do Blog
Arquivo do blog
►
2012
(22)
►
06/17 - 06/24
(1)
►
06/10 - 06/17
(1)
►
04/29 - 05/06
(5)
►
04/22 - 04/29
(1)
►
04/01 - 04/08
(2)
►
03/25 - 04/01
(8)
►
03/18 - 03/25
(4)
►
2011
(14)
►
11/06 - 11/13
(1)
►
10/23 - 10/30
(2)
►
10/16 - 10/23
(1)
►
10/09 - 10/16
(2)
►
10/02 - 10/09
(1)
►
09/25 - 10/02
(2)
►
08/28 - 09/04
(3)
►
08/14 - 08/21
(2)
▼
2010
(19)
►
10/31 - 11/07
(3)
▼
08/08 - 08/15
(2)
História da Arte em Imagens - A IDADE MODERNA
(15...
História da Arte em Imagens - A IDADE MÉDIA 2 (100...
►
08/01 - 08/08
(2)
►
07/25 - 08/01
(1)
►
07/11 - 07/18
(3)
►
05/09 - 05/16
(1)
►
03/21 - 03/28
(1)
►
03/07 - 03/14
(1)
►
02/28 - 03/07
(1)
►
02/21 - 02/28
(2)
►
02/14 - 02/21
(2)
Quem sou eu
Jak Jony Faria Mota
Juiz de Fora, Minas Gerais, Brazil
Jak Jony Faria Mota - Possui Bacharelado, Licencatura e Formação Clínica em Psicologia (1981/FAMATH), com Especialização (1992/UFJF) e Mestrado (1998/UFJF) em Ciência da Religião. Autor dos textos "Aspectos xamânicos na Gestalt-Terapia: um estudo sobre o ser psicoterapeuta" e "Pentecostalismo: 'con-tradição' Protestante no Brasil".
Visualizar meu perfil completo
Pesquisar
Carregando...
Loading...
Criatividade aqui no Blog:
"A
criatividade
não tem nada a ver com qualquer trabalho em particular. A
criatividade
está relacionada com a
qualidade de sua consciência . Qualquer coisa que fizer poderá ser criativa se você souber o que a criatividade significa. A
criatividade
significa estar envolvido em qualquer trabalho, como se fosse uma meditação, significa fazer qualquer trabalho com grande amor. " Osho