The Cocktail Chronicles: Bloody Mary | Examiner.com
Skip to main content
Report this ad
In Leisure:
Food & Drink Travel Spa & Beauty Autos & Motorcycles Bars & Clubs
Facebook Twitter Google Plus Search
Leisure
Food & Drink
Drinks
See also:
bloody mary
The Cocktail Chronicles: Bloody Mary
Use your
key for the next article Next:
The Bloody Mary: Cure for the hangover or urban myth?
March 20, 2012
10:45 AM MST
Facebook
Twitter
Pinterest
Linkedin
Google Plus
Comment
Hoke Harden
If imitation is indeed the sincerest form of flattery, the classic
Bloody Mary
must be the most sincerely flattered cocktail ever created.
What began as a mix of vodka in tomato juice with some simple spicing has mutated into countless versions, from the essential to a bewildering array of bartender signature concoctions and slapdash thrown-together meal-in-a-drink versions that can boggle the mind and stun the palate.
As with many of the classic cocktails, there are any number of creation claims and myths that surround the drink.
Depending on which version you prefer, the
Bloody Mary
was created originally as a vodka and tomato juice pick-me-up in either the Roaring Twenties or the Depression Era Thirties, by either performer Georgie Jessel, a then famous vaudevillian comic, or bartender
Fernand Petiot
in a New York bar.
The name is as shrouded in mystery as the creation, with Bloody Mary usually associated with either Mary, Queen of Scots, or Queen Mary, ill-handled Spanish wife of Henry the Eighth who went on her own sanguinary rampage, but not excluding various legendary colorful waitresses and celebrities.
Truth is, no one knows.
To use the parlance of today: What-ever!
What is most likely is the rather dull and simple vodka-tomato combination immediately got spiced up in the hands of a thoughtful drinkslinger, then morphed into a different variation every time a new bartender was asked to make one.
The Bloody Mary quickly became the stuff of legend and the mainstay of otherwise staid brunches across the land.
It was touted as the nonpareil hangover cure (it isn’t; hangovers can only be preemptively cured by not over-indulging the night before) and gave succor and hope to numberless desperate souls, who profited at the very least from the ingestion of healthy, vitamin rich tomato juice in their diet. It also begat other drinks in biblical quantities, some compelling, some downright painful, and some just silly.
Today the more-or-less-agreed-upon recipe of a Bloody Mary is vodka, tomato juice, salt, black pepper, cayenne pepper, lemon juice, and
Worcestershire Sauce , all vigorously mixed with ice, and often garnished with greenery, a celery stalk being the most common accoutrement. The hundreds of variations on that base seem to focus either on replacing the spirit, the juice and corollary ingredients, or the garnish to create a new signature recipe.
Some spirit substitutions seem obvious and inevitable, such as gin ( Bloody Murder ) or tequila ( Vampiro ), or rum ( Cubanito ).
Some are not so immediately obvious but now beloved of many, such as Guinness Stout ( Bloody Maureen ) and any other beer (the much-consumed Mexican-derived
Michelada , which goes off into separate orbits of creativity as well).
Some just seem bizarre, such as Irish whiskey, Absinthe, Saki, Cabernet Sauvignon (Really?
Why?), and Scotch ( Bloody Scotsman , which seems to be a waste of perfectly good scotch to most aficionados of the whisky).
And of course, there had to be and so there was, a spirit-free version (unspirited? dispirited? without spirit?), the Virgin Mary.
When the focus shifts to the other ingredients, again the sky’s the limit, with Worcestershire Sauce being traded out for Tabasco Sauce, A1 Steak Sauce, barbeque sauce, teriyaki sauce, horseradish, wasabi sauce, pain-inducing habanero sauce, and the popular variation (mysteriously so, to some) of Clamato, clam juice mixed with tomato sauce for what is usually referred to as the
Bloody Caesar .
Canadians seem to love this Clamato version---but then, Canadians are also quite fond of poutine so that may not be the most resounding endorsement.
You’ll simply have to decide that one for yourself.
Those who like shortcuts, or are in a desperate hurry for the drink to arrive, use branded canned or bottled mixes, which abound nationally, regionally and locally.
Some are a watery mess; some are quite impressive and highly flavored.
There’s even a version of the drink which eradicates tomato juice entirely to substitute…pineapple juice, although cocktail purists have suggested finding the creator of that version and holding a tar and feather party, if not a well-deserved lynching. One would suppose those who consume this variation are also the ones who order something called ‘Hawaiian Pizza’, but little is known of those strange mutants.
The last frontier to be explored in the Bloody Mary was the garnish, with the ubiquitous celery being replaced or added to with dill pickle spears, garlic pickles, caperberries (inspired), bitter melon, olives, stuffed olives, roasted garlic cloves, cherry tomatoes, citrus fruits, radishes, parsley, and sprigs of whatever green thing was in season at the time of construction.
So whether you adhere to the ‘original formula’ or like the daring and adventurous, there’s a Bloody Mary for you out there.
Go find it.
Suggested
Links
The Cocktail Chronicles: Ventura Highway at Beaker and Flask
The Cocktail Chronicles: Lions and Giraffes at St. Jack
The Cocktail Chronicles: Humble Pie at the Teardrop Lounge
The Cocktail Chronicles: Femme Chinoise
The Cocktail Chronicles: Brainstorm at Distil
Report this content
Share
this article
Facebook
Twitter
Pinterest
Linkedin
Google Plus
Comment
Subscribe
to author
Comments
Hoke Harden Portland Spirits Examiner An enthusiastic lover of wine and spirits, Mr. Harden left a career in academia to follow his other muse for the last 27 years, trekking around the world to the great producing regions. Recently referred to as a veritable walking omnibus of wine and spirits knowledge, he has experienced every possible facet of the world of wine and spirits as a retailer, restaurateur, bartender, buyer, wholesaler, supplier, marketer, critic, writer, competition judge and an educator.
He is currently with Elixir Vitae Wine & Spirits Consultants, a member of the Society of Wine Educators, Wine & Spirits Instructor at Mt. Hood Community College, and a Master Instructor with the French Wine Academy. Twitter
Contact me
Featured
Video
Related
stories
Day of the Dead: History, customs in modern Mexican
and Pan de Muertos recipe
Doing craft beer and brewing right on an island in Maine
Tap Room grand opening at Whole Foods Market Blossom Hill in San Jose
Koloa announces Kaua'i Coffee Rum from Hawaii
Nothing scary about these Halloween inspired red wines
Leisure
highlights
Review : Smartphone Wallet from Harley-Davidson is perfect for rides around town Harley-Davidson has got some great new items in store for the 2015 holiday season and their Smartphone Leather Wallet for the ladies makes a perfect gift or stocking stuffer. It is made of lambskin...
Camera
Six best beauty looks from Black-ish star Tracee Ellis Ross Black actresses are definitely having a moment when it comes to drawing in audiences for TV shows. From Kerry Washington in “Scandal” to Viola Davis in “How to Get Away with Murder”, shows starring...
Next
Article
The Bloody Mary: Cure for the hangover or urban myth?
Report this ad
POPULAR
in FOOD & DRINK
Paula Deen’s amazing chicken casserole
Carnival squash recipes: 8 ways to cook the sweet, mellow vegetable
The best mashed potatoes and the best homemade gravy recipe ever
Easy Halloween dessert recipes for spooktacular parties
Christmas snack recipes: Ranch oyster crackers recipe
Order your 2015 Thanksgiving dinner to go at Publix
Day of the Dead: History, customs in modern Mexican
and Pan de Muertos recipe
Kinnikinnick Foods’ new soft donuts take prepared doughnuts to a new level
Halloween parties: 6 easy and creepy foods to serve
Apple recipe:
One extra little step makes this the best apple crisp recipe ever
TRENDING
on EXAMINER.COM
Final Jeopardy answer costs contestant $6000 as she unwittingly insults liberals
Three pit bulls rescued from Florida storm drain
Heartbroken dog begs his owner not to abandon him at shelter
Stunned passengers watch huge dog roll into first class on airplane
Skeletal dog fights for her life in Phoenix
Undercover sting results in arrest of man who wanted to have sex with animals
D'Arcee Neal: Severely disabled man on plane crawls down aisle
Saudi prince drug smuggling on private plane: Will Saudi prince be beheaded?
Megalodon teeth from mouth of 60-ft shark: Jaw-dropping find on N.C. shore
Florida hunter blows life away of nearly blind, old 'Grandfather Bear'
Report this ad
Report this ad
Facebook
Twitter
Linkedin
Google+
Pinterest
Company Links
About us
OnTopic custom content
The Rowdy
Advertise with us
Sitemap
Examiner.com Entertainment
| AXS Network | © 2006-2015 AXS Digital Group LLC d/b/a
Examiner.com |
Privacy Policy
|
Terms of Use
|
About us
Choose a Topic
Arts & Entertainment Arts & Entertainment Music Movies TV Arts & Exhibits Performing Arts Reality TV Celebrity Pop Culture Animation Young Adult Fiction Books Movie Reviews Comic Books AXS Entertainment AXS Entertainment Music Movies TV Arts & Exhibits Performing Arts NFL NHL MLB NBA Fight Sports Soccer Recreational Sports Reality TV Music Festivals News News Top News International News Strange News Science & Space Politics Elections Environment Extreme Weather Government Crime & Courts Business & Finance Same-Sex Marriage Small Business Stock Market Gun Control Global Warming Personal Finance Democrat Republican Political Buzz Marketing and PR Immigration Life Life Home & Living Pets Style & Fashion Family & Parenting Health & Fitness Education Religion & Spirituality Weight Loss & Dieting Weddings Gardening Home Improvement Relationships Green Living Nutrition Neighborhoods Careers & Workplace Sales & Deals Healthcare Jobs Hobbies Leisure Leisure Food & Drink Travel Spa & Beauty Autos & Motorcycles Bars & Clubs Recipes Drinks Budget Travel DIY Mechanic Auto Reviews Natural Beauty Luxury Travel Makeup Hair & Nails Sports Sports MLB NFL NBA NHL Soccer Fight Sports Recreational Sports College Sports General Sports Fantasy Sports Motorsports Hunting & Fishing Hiking Camping Running Equestrian Water Sports Action Sports Endurance Sports Recreation Tech Tech Gadgets & Tech Video Games Internet Tech Gear Tablets iPhone Google Glass Wearable Tech Xbox One Playstation 4 Photography MMOGs Handheld Games Facebook Anonymous Social Media Consoles Bitcoin Google Twitter Video Log In / Register Write for Us
Search