September | 2011 |
A blog about service, mishaps and life
A blog about service, mishaps and life
Connect
Search
Primary Menu
Skip to content
Home ATTENTION BUSINESS OWNERS, WAKE UP! About Me Contact Information
Twitter
Search
Monthly Archives:
September 2011
Boston ,
Customer Experience ,
Dining Experience ,
Travel Experience
The Salty Dog at Faneuil Hall in Boston
September 23, 2011
dorothyadele
1 Comment
Image via Wikipedia Attribution Frogmation
I love historic
Boston . The Salty Dog Seafood Grille & Bar at 206
Faneuil Hall Marketplace
in Boston feels old.
If
you eat outside at the tables
on the cobblestone sidewalk, or sit at the bar, you can watch the Faneuil Hall tourists. It is a great people watching venue. Inside there are two bars and a small dining room.
Dark wood and
brick walls
enhance the relaxed atmosphere.
Travel Companions, my daughter and sister
When we arrived at the Salty Dog, we initially sat outside.
Since it was cool, we descended the
old stone steps into the bar. As we waited, hoping to get a seat,
I was impressed that the bartender acknowledged us promptly, because
he was busy preparing drinks and serving food. He got us three seats at the bar.
We enjoyed
New England clam chowder . It was creamy with diced potatoes. The best part of out meal was the raw
oysters
with lemon,
horseradish
and
cocktail sauce .
They were fresh and salty. We also had fried oysters served with tarter sauce. They were fair.
My sister ordered fish and chips with no-mayonnaise
coleslaw . The slaw was crisp and slightly sweet. We loved that it
was flavorful and didn’t have mayonnaise.
I had a
Bloody Mary
with a cooked shrimp (that was still in the shell) and a large celery stalk. You could taste horseradish in the drink. It was average at best.
I would visit again because of the friendly atmosphere and congenial bartender. I would order raw oysters and a beer.
Boston on Dwellable
Share this: Twitter Google Facebook Reddit Tumblr LinkedIn Pinterest Like this: Like
Loading...
Boston Customer Experience Customer Service Faneuil Hall Faneuil Hall Marketplace Massachusetts New England Thomas Menino Travel United States
Boston ,
Customer Service ,
Dining Experience ,
Hotel Experience ,
Travel Experience
Hotel Commonwealth — Comfortable Luxury
September 17, 2011
dorothyadele
Leave a comment
Hotel Commonwealth Lobby
When I return to Hotel Commonwealth in
Boston , it is like going home.  Hotel Commonweath is located at 500
Commonwealth Avenue
in Boston. It is a small-luxury hotel.
When you exit your cab at Hotel Commonwealth,  conscientious doormen greet you. We visit often, and some of the doormen greet us by name. It is a special feeling.
As you enter the hotel, you are struck by the rich reddish-gold carpeting with gold, blue, green and rose colored-mosaic patterns. As you ascend the  staircase,  you arrive in an elegant lobby. I love enjoying my coffee and reading the paper in the lobby, during the morning, and watching people.
The Green Monster
The rooms have views of Commonwealth Avenue or
Fenway Park . You can see the “ Green Monster ” at Fenway Park from the Fenway rooms. From the Commonwealth rooms, you can watch the cars and pedestrians on Commonwealth Avenue.
Comfortable beds with light-weight-down comforters and four medium-firm pillows furnish the rooms.  I usually don’t sleep well in hotel beds, but I sleep great here.
The amenities in the bathroom include lemon-scented-soy shampoo, shower gel and body lotion from Fresh. They also offer pomegranate hair conditioner.
The hotel has two popular restaurants. Eastern Standard and Island Creek Oyster Bar. At Eastern Standard, you can dine on the patio or in the restaurant. If you choose outdoor dining, you can enjoy people watching on Commonwealth Avenue. If there is a Boston
Red Sox
game, baseball fans pack the bar and restaurant. One of my favorite appetizers is the steamed mussels prepared with white wine, tomatoes and fennel. It is served with crunchy bread for dipping. I also love their clear chocolate martinis. One of the bartenders gave me the recipe. If you want it, let me know.
Island Creek Oyster Bar is new, but it is known for delicious, fresh seafood. They rely on local farmers and advertise that they use the freshest ingredients. They have a great reputation.
My family visits Boston often, and we stay at Hotel Commonwealth. My daughter played lacrosse at Boston University and we would come to watch her fall and spring lacrosse games. Now, I visit whenever I can.  I can’t think of another hotel where I would feel as comfortable.
Share this: Twitter Google Facebook Reddit Tumblr LinkedIn Pinterest Like this: Like
Loading...
Boston Boston Red Sox Commonwealth Avenue Boston Customer Experience Customer Service Eastern Standard Fenway Park Oyster Bar Travel
Baltimore ,
Customer Experience ,
Customer Service
BGE –
Slow Response, Inaccurate Information
September 9, 2011
dorothyadele
Leave a comment
We lost power for 7 days from
Hurricane Irene . Our power went out on Saturday, August 27, about 11:00 p.m. It was restored by 4:30 p.m. the following Saturday. Please click on this
link
to view a previous Hurricane Irene post.
I spoke to Linda Foy, she is the
spokesperson
for BGE. I asked her what they did differently from
Hurricane Isabel . She said they had external linemen and supports in place before the storm. If you click on this
link , PRNewswire, it appears that they did this for Hurricane Isabel. She also said they used
social networking sites
to communicate with customers.
BGE
customer service
gave us inaccurate information daily.
The phone message said that our power would be restored on Tuesday, August 29 by 11:00 p.m. The Wednesday message said that it would be restored by that evening. On Thursday we were guaranteed, by a spokesperson, that it would be restored by Thursday evening. We still had no power. On Friday, a crew showed up, and we had power for 20 minutes. The power went out, and the crew left. When the crew returned that evening, they discovered that we needed an underground crew. We had to wait until Saturday. If the crew would have stayed earlier to investigate the problem, I wonder if they could have gotten the underground crew on Friday. Since it was late, we had to wait another day.
The BGE foreman and linemen followed up with us, on Saturday, to ensure that our power was restored. We appreciated their help.
Linda Foy said that the customer service representatives and the automated line take information from the customer and give a preliminary time for restoration. Once the crew is on the scene, the crew may encounter unforeseen problems that may require additional equipment.
Linda Foy also said that they have a robust tree trimming program. They canvass the area to take necessary steps. Do you see many areas in
Maryland
where trees overhang wires?
One other point, my husband called our 3rd District Councilman, Todd Huff, 3 times, and he left messages. To our knowledge, we never received a return call. Please click on this
link
for his home page.
What is your experience with BGE? I would love to know.
Related articles
Irene: The Aftermath
(dickstersrandomthoughts.com)
Irene’s Aftermath
(brenwoode.wordpress.com)
Power Outages Continue in East Coast States
(scientificamerican.com)
Share this: Twitter Google Facebook Reddit Tumblr LinkedIn Pinterest Like this: Like
Loading...
Constellation Energy Customer Experience Customer Service Hurricane Irene Hurricane Isabel Maryland PR Newswire Todd Huff Councilman
Delaware Tourism ,
Maryland Delaware Eastern Shore ,
Travel Experience
Labor Day, a Melancholy End to Summer
September 5, 2011
dorothyadele
Leave a comment
I have mixed feelings about Labor Day. As I jog in a
Delaware
beach resort , I feel a little sad. I had the opportunity to live with my college-age daughter for the summer. There were a few mother and daughter glitches, but I loved having her home. She packed and left for school this morning. It left me feeling empty.
Tourists are gone, vacancy signs appear and it is quiet. This used to be my favorite time at the beach before my children became school age. I fondly remember,  when I stayed at the beach through most of the
fall
with my daughter (my husband came for long weekends).
A special memory involves my
mother-in- law . We lived at the beach (at separate residences) for several weeks. My daughter needed a crib. We shopped for a crib and spent an evening assembling it. We talked, laughed and worked. It was a special time.
In a few years, my husband and I will be able to live at the beach for the fall, when my son goes  to college.  As much as I love fall at the shore, I am already sad that he will be gone. I never imagined the speed of time.
I look forward to the fall school and sports routine. It gets me back on track after a wonderful summer.
Share this: Twitter Google Facebook Reddit Tumblr LinkedIn Pinterest Like this: Like
Loading...
Autumn Delaware Beaches Family Labor Day Maryland Delaware Eastern Shore Mother Mother-in-law Seaside resort Travel
Baltimore ,
Customer Experience ,
Customer Service
Hurricane Irene, Power Outages and BGE
September 1, 2011
dorothyadele
1 Comment
Hurricane Irene knocked out power at our home on Saturday, August 2, about 11:00 p.m. Today is September 1, and we still do not have
electricity .
The most frustrating issue is, we were given 2 specific times when power would be restored. (My neighbor had a
side bet
on these times.) Tuesday, September 30 by 11:00 p.m. was the first date that I received from the BGE hot line. The second date was Wednesday September 31 by 11:00 p.m. I owe my neighbor dinner because he bet against these dates. I wish BGE would have been honest and definitive. I think that they should pay for this dinner, don’t you?
I had a positive experience today. I saw a
Baltimore Gas & Electric
truck about a mile from my home. I told  the men my street name. I asked them to please check into the problem. Twenty minutes later they drove down my street and found my home because they saw my car. They drove into my driveway to give me an update. They found the issue and believed that it was a quick fix. They called the location into BGE. I appreciated their follow-through.
We are without power, and there is no sign of any BGE trucks. There was something positive that resulted from losing electricity.  We spent quality time with our wonderful neighbors Cheryl, Jeff, Ruth, Charlie and Trevor. We shared delicious grilled meals, wine  and humorous stories. That was a blessing.
Related articles
Irene’s Aftermath
(brenwoode.wordpress.com)
Share this: Twitter Google Facebook Reddit Tumblr LinkedIn Pinterest Like this: Like
Loading...
Baltimore Baltimore Gas & Electric Business Constellation Energy Customer Customer Service Electricity Hurricane Irene Maryland
Search
Blogroll
Meta
Register
Log in
Top Posts & Pages Lady Baltimore Hardwood Floors, Finksburg, MD --
Beautiful Floors, Great Customer Service
Sheilah Kast Lecture about Journalism and Social Media
Unique Gift Shop in Bethany Beach
Blog Stats
26,900 hits
RSS - Posts RSS - Comments
Email Subscription
Enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Join 399 other followers
Archives
Archives
Select Month
October 2014  (2)
September 2014  (1)
July 2014  (1)
September 2013  (2)
August 2013  (6)
July 2013  (8)
June 2013  (6)
May 2013  (2)
April 2013  (3)
March 2013  (5)
February 2013  (19)
January 2013  (9)
December 2012  (1)
October 2012  (5)
September 2012  (6)
August 2012  (2)
July 2012  (2)
June 2012  (5)
May 2012  (2)
March 2012  (3)
February 2012  (3)
January 2012  (1)
November 2011  (1)
October 2011  (3)
September 2011  (5)
August 2011  (3)
July 2011  (6)
June 2011  (11)
May 2011  (2)
Travel, Dining and Customer Experience
Adventure
Art
Bahamas
Deep Sea Fishing
Bimini
Comcast
Dining
Dogs
Leonberger
The Leonberger Dog and the American Kennel Club
Exercise
Family
Flowers
Frightening Experience
Humor
I won a car
Journalism
Sheilah Kast
Social Media
Life
List
Maryland
Annapolis
Bellman
Baltimore
Art Gallery
Baltimore Tourism
Baltimore's Inner Harbor
Cultural Experience
Customer Experience
Customer Service
Dining Experience
Retail Experience
Seafood Restaurant
Shopping Experience
Media
Nature
Attracting Bluebirds
Bluebirds
New Orleans
Bourbon Street
Pre-Mardi Gras
New Year 2013
Photograph
Weekly Photo Challenge
Weekly Photo Challenge — Everyday Life
Weekly Photo Challenge — Illumination
Weekly Photo Challenge — Mine
Weekly Photo Challenge — Near and Far
Weekly Photo Challenge — Solitary
Weekly Photo Challenge: Beyond
Politics
Occupy Baltimore
Occupy Movement
Procrastination
Radio Station Contest
Recipe
Speech
Sportfishing
Sports
Atlantic Coast Conference
Clemson University
Golf
NCAA
Super Bowl
Super Bowl XLVII
The Baltimore Ravens
Travel
Aviation
Boston
Dining Experience
Hotel Experience
Florida
Boca Raton
Palm Beach
Manhattan
Pedicab
Rooftop Bar
Scam
St. Barths
Travel Experience
Maryland Delaware Eastern Shore
Bethany Beach
Customer Experience
Customer Service
Delaware Tourism
Dining Experience
Fenwick Island Restaurants
Delicatessen
Fun
Retail Experience
Tennis
Travel Experience
Puerto Rico
Southwest Airlines
Unbelievable Coincidence
Unique Experience
Video
Weekly Photo Challenge: Future
Recent Posts
An Unbelievable Coincidence
Odd Behavior at the Charlotte Douglas Airport
One Coastal in Fenwick Island, DE — New Owners
230 Fifth in Manhattan — A Must Visit
My Dog Saves Our
Daughter
Create a free website or blog at WordPress.com .
|
The Further Theme .
Follow
Follow “ A blog about service, mishaps and life”
Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.
Join 399 other followers
Build a website with WordPress.com
%d
bloggers like this: