April | 2010 | Perth Food Engineers
Perth Food Engineers
We Eat | We Write | We Electrify
Search
Main menu
Skip to primary content
Skip to secondary content
Home
Get to Know Us
Foreign Material
Events
Products
Monthly Archives:
April 2010
Post navigation
←
Older posts
Country Road Cafe, Perth
Posted on
April 26, 2010
by
Miss L
3
Country Road Cafe, located inside the Country Road clothing store on Murray Street is a cafe that encompasses the best of both the shopping and eating world.  Tired after shopping?  Turn around, make your way to the back of the store and you will find a busy little cafe, perfect for the afternoon nibbles or drinks.  I’d discovered this place through a friend a few years back and have been loving it since.
It is a smallish cafe and gets very busy during lunch time so booking is definitely recommended.  Once a booking is made, your name is written on the table along with the time of arrival.  You are then able to stake your claim on the table when you arrive without even waiting or talking to the waitstaff.  A good and efficient system!
The cafe started out quite small in size, but have steadily expanded over the years with even a conversion of their back room into a dining area (not sure what the room was used before but I’m pretty sure it wasn’t part of the cafe).  All the better for us!  It now consists of an alfresco area with huge black umbrellas as shades and an interior area with either a normal table-wooden seats,  booth like-sofa seats or hi-table-stools settings.  My favourite is the alfresco area on a warm sunny day – love the ray of sunlight shining through the shades.  Such great ambience!
The lunch menu is written on a glass pane next to the counter and consists of salads, sandwiches, pies, nachos, rice and many more.  Not too many varieties, however they are quite innovative with their dishes – the chefs seemed to have jazz the dishes up with different uncommon ingredients.  I like!  The dishes come in entree or main sizes and orders are placed and paid at the counter.
For lunch, we had:
Chickpea and roasted vegetable salad
with lemon and herb dressing ($14.50)
2 x
Caesar salad, Country Road style with chicken
($14.50)
Special juice of the day –
Sunrise
($4.50)
I had the  Caesar Salad
for lunch that day and it was the best
Caesar Salad
I have eaten in Perth so far!  It spoils the caesar salads around other places for me as I always compare them with this and they normally don’t come up to scratch!  The
Country Road styled Caesar Salad
is filled with different veggies (a plus for me) – onions, sundried tomatoes, red cabbabe, snow pea sprout and many more.  The combination of different spices with the sauce is divine!  It also comes with two slices of toasted turkish bread, just the right amount to fill you up without pushing you over the limit.  It’s such a great dish, I can’t stop going on about it.  I only ever order this dish now everytime I eat here!  A must try!
The juice of the day,
Sunrise  was a concoction of watermelon, orange, pineapple and passionfruit juice – freshly squeezed, was very refreshing and a perfect complement to the salad.  Worth an order!
(Note: I was too engrossed in my
Caesar Salad
to ask about the
Chickpea & Roasted Vegetable Salad
– so no feedback on this *sheepish look*)
Service was average and not too noticeable as we didn’t have much contact with the waitstaff except at the counter and them bringing out/clearing the dishes.  However, with its great ambience and Caesar Salad, I will be back again and again!  For those who doesn’t know about this gem of a cafe, check out this idyllic hideaway if you are ever in the vicinity!
Rating:   4.25 out of 5 stars
Rating by: N.L.
Country Road Cafe
Telephone : 08 9321 3982
Address: 307 – 313 Murray Street, Perth
Posted in
Cafe ,
Modern Australian
|
Tagged
Perth
|
3
Replies
Soda SunLounge, North Beach
Posted on
April 19, 2010
by
S. Megan
4
Website:
http://www. soda sunloung e.com.au
The sisters and I decided to go somewhere a little out of the ordinary for us (living in the city and east) one weekend for breakfast, and we ended up having such a good catch up session, we stayed till the place was preparing for lunch! =X
This place is sitting above a little shopping centre along North Beach Road, and I actually got lost trying to find the place because there are so many sections to the car park! If you park on the upper level, and you enter through the door where it is next to the gym… then you gotta walk all the way down towards the end. If you are parked somewhere else, well, just follow the signs? :)
The inside of this place is really quite nice. With
interesting
paintings filling the area, and nice comfortable lounge sofas, and wooden benches around. I sat inside because there wasn’t any seats outside (where you really would wanna be especially in summer because it overlooks the beach and ocean!).
As I waited, the sisters came through, and as we chatted a little bit, we were served some water and menus… and before we knew it, “BAM!” A table outside became free and we quickly grabbed our stuff and went outside! Whee. The morning was already looking good.
As the sisters deliberated on the menu, I decided to take the chance to snap a photo of the outside… and it’s lovely that I manage to have snaps of a place where there is a significant number of people because, really, everytime I try to, I fail!
The menu didn’t boast variety, but I do give it kudos for its interesting choices that we’re being offered.
Besides coffee and the usual juices we’d get, there is one thing that I have been looking for and could only find it in one other place…
VIRGIN MARY!!!
For you cocktail drinkers, you would know that this is just the
Bloody Mary
without the Vodka. I don’t really agree with the naming convention of this drink, but oh-I-love-it-so.
So yes, it sounds terrible, but I really do love this drink. Being introduced to this by my beloved sister when I was in USA, I always jump for joy whenever I see this being available at any place here in Australia (which, may I add, is not very common at all – not in the places I have been to at least).
Anyway, here are some snippets of the menu:
For the first time in history, I actually managed to take decent shots of the menu! Whee. :)
So, here were our orders:
French Toast
Grilled Toast with Spinach, Belchamel & Gruyere
Croissant, Prosciutto, Gruyere, Rocket
OJ
Virgin Mary
Cappuccino (after)
Iced Coffee (after)
Yes, so I guess anyone would now be able to understand why we were able to sit there for ages.
While we were waiting for our order, the cutleries were served on one plate, with a little dish of sea salt.
D.P was really amused by the size and shape of the salt spoon, and I was quite too because it really was, one of the smallest spoons I have ever seen! So cute. :)
Anyway, the
OJ
and the
VM
came around not too long later, and I was feeling all excited because Soda Sunlounge actually bothered to finish the VM off with a celery stick! Just like how it was served in America. :) Ah, the memories.
Took a little sip of the VM, and bam!!! I was hit with this feeling of nostalgia, and a grin was automatically formed on my face, whilst the sisters looked on with disgust over the fact that I could feel all excited over a tomato juice being severed with all kinds of sauces, pepper and a celery stick.
Needless to say. I loved my VM. ;)
The orange juice was said to be fresh too. So far so good!
The
Croissant
was quite obviously a variation to the typical ham and cheese croissant that we’d find elsewhere, replacing the ham with prosciutto, and the typical (I have no idea what kind!) cheese with Gruyere, and with the nice addition of my favourite rocket leaves!
This picture looks like it’s a vegetarian dish because of the generous serving of rocket, but there was quite a good amount of prosciutto underneath too. :)
Loved the change of taste, and with the rocket in this dish, I don’t need to feel that guilty about having my meat without the vege!
An overall tasty dish, the only thing I thought could be a tad better was the Croissant. there was a flakiness that was missing.
The
Grilled Toast with Spinach
was quite simply served the way it was, without any side garnishing or the like. A tad disappointing but then again that was how my croissant was served too! It had a nice generous serve of spinach, and from S.K. the cheese was rather overpowering and the whole dish became a tad heavy towards the end. Tasty though!
The
French Toast
was the highlight of the morning, having the best presentation and filling the plate up with style and sweetness. D.P said the whole thing was a bit too sweet, and she would rather have fresh fruits with the toast than the dried ones that were served.
The
after brekkie coffees
(as I would like to call them) were quite average… in fact S.K’s one was a tad on the disappointing side. Can’t remember what was the exact reason for this but I do remember her saying it’s nice but not quite there.
Overall, this place is lovely to just catch up with good ol’ friends or family, and have a simple breakfast and enjoy the breathtaking view of the ocean and the sometimes illustrious skies of WA. Wouldn’t be the cheapest option around, but I think we are paying a little bit for the view as well :)
Rating: 3.25 out of 5 stars
Rating by: S.T. a.k.a Miss Egg
Soda Sunlounge
Telephone:
(08) 9203 7788
Address:
Upstairs, 1 North Beach Road, North Beach, Western Australia, 6020
Posted in
Breakfast
|
Tagged
North Beach
|
4
Replies
Blue Waters Cafe, Cottesloe
Posted on
April 10, 2010
by
S. Megan
1
Website:
http://www.blue-waters.com.au
So I had planned to go for dinner with my
brother
for some time, and the fact that we finally managed to fix a date with each other was already a miracle in itself!! I gave him two choices that I wanted to try (either Blue Waters, or Blue Duck) at Cottesloe. Lo and behold, he chose Blue Duck. So I gladly agreed, and asked him to make the reservation (yes, laziness knows me by name). He texted me some time later and informed me that Blue Duck was fully booked, so he’s managed to score a booking with Blue Waters instead. And what did I think? I thought it was the other way around!! And because I was terribly late that evening, I just took my keys and off I went. I arrived at Blue Duck, only to find that it’s not anything like he’s told me (i.e. “you’ll see me, the place is really quite small)…  1st FAIL. Then I called him and asked him if it was the Blue Duck and he went, “NO!!! I said BLUE WATERS!”. Righto. This was like about 1km plus down the road. So off I went on a nice long (and quick walk) to the Blue Waters.
Nice way to start the evening? Yes.
When I arrived, the place was indeed rather small, in comparison to the Blue Duck in which I had already made a complete embarrassment of myself. I saw the brother, and then was quickly teased with much amusement from the one who shares the same birthday as me. :)
Anyway… the place looked lovely and I was excited to try their food (especially after ravaging through the menu that very day during office hours!).
We had the waitress come up to us to tell us the specials of the day, and it was rather well explained. Kudos to her for knowing what she was actually talking about!
So we ordered:
Espresso Martini (come on I needed something to cool the body down after that walk!)
Wagyu Scotch Fillet with Mash, Oven Dried Tomato, Grilled Field Mushroom and Bearnaise Sauce (bro)
Fish of the Day, Barramundi served with walnut salad, and pumpkins (okay, so the waitress did a far better job at describing but the photos will prove itself)
Raspberry Creme Brulee
The
espresso martini
was really well presented, but I felt there was a bit too much foam on the top – very little to truly drink off. That said, I always love the level of detail they go with laying those three coffee beans on the top. :) Not the best I’ve tried I have to say, but it was good enough for me. :)
To fill some space up, I will talk about the lovely ambiance that filled the room this evening. It was lit up slightly darker than usual (and I’ve heard about this where the darker the room – obviously not that dark! – the better the person’s appetite)… and whilst I wasn’t dining with the love of my life, it did have a nice feel to it. The way the tables were laid out was quite interesting too. The group tables were at the back of the restaurant, and the rest were just the smaller tables of 2, 3 and 4.
Just when the mains came out, we were lucky to have a nice lady asking us if we’d like to have a photo taken with our food, and the natural answers were – Me: Yes please! Bro: Oh no it’s ok. right. So who did she listen to? GIRL POWER!
Anyway, enough babbling there.
The
Fish of the Day
was sublime! :) I am not the biggest fan of fish but this dish really blew me away. I was delighted by the walnut salad which came with rocket (YEHH!!), and the pumpkin was so well cooked that it stayed firm on the fork but melted in the mouth. Wowee. Truly one of the finest fish dishes I have tried in my dining experiences. Then again, I haven’t had many fish dish experiences. :) But this worked for me. I thought it wouldn’t fill me up (as a real red meat lover), but it did. Well and truly did.
The
Wagyu Steak
was a nice piece of meat, and whilst it looked weird on such a massive plate, I was told everything tasted brilliant. I had a piece of the cow myself, and it tasted quite lovely – not the best I have tried, but still good. The mushrooms looked extremely fresh and bro said that it was one of the best he’s tasted. The bearnaise sauce could do with a bit more taste to it (in my humble opinion), but I do like my food rather ‘tasty’.
The
raspberry creme brulee
was ordered to share, and the waitress actually repeatedly asked us “you sure it’s enough?”… and it actually was because all I wanted was something sweet to end the night :)
It came out looking burnt, and it was a bit off-putting to be honest. Cracking into the brulee, I tasted the caramelised top bit and it did have that tinge of burnt taste, which really shouldn’t be there. I wasn’t too pleased.
That said, the insides were lovely. The raspberry gave it a tinge of sourness which killed the overall heaviness of the custard. :) Kudos for coming up with such an idea!
Definitely could do better, but I was so wrapped up with my fish that I didn’t really bother too much about the burnt bits here.
It was a lovely dining experience, and the service was rather good to say the least. :) Thanks to the waitress who served us this night because she was extremely patient with my deliberation!
Rating:
3.5 out of 5 stars
Rating by:
S.T. a.k.a Miss Egg
Blue Waters Cafe
Telephone:
(08) 9385 3130
Address:
Bluewaters 110 Marine Parade, Cottesloe, 6011
Some additional photos from the Lunch Menu (contribution from Miss L)
Seared scallops, crispy proscuitto with cauliflower and saffron sauce
($19) – yummy but the serving is so small!  I thought it would be scallops with some accompaniment since it was in the lunch menu and not the entree section but alas I was so wrong!  Was still so hungry after the food and had to steal food from others on the table!
Traditional caesar salad with grilled rosemary chicken
($24) and with
grilled tiger prawns
($26) – both were very nice!
Open free range mount barker chicken sandwich, cos lettuce, avocado, tomato and crispy bacon
($29) – chunky pieces stacked on top of one another..great!
Grilled steak sandwich with caramelized onions, tomato and roc kette ($20) – this was the reason we came to eat here, my friend loves this dish!
Chips and aioli
($10) – not as crunchy as expected..think twice unless you need some chippy goody.
THE MENU ….
Posted in
Modern Australian
|
Tagged
Cottesloe
|
1
Reply
Charm Restaurant, Perth
Posted on
April 8, 2010
by
Miss L
3
The springing up of numerous luxury apartments in the city brought about various small cafes/restaurants being opened up for business, much to the delight of workers in the city like myself.  One such is Charm, a restaurant serving Korean/Japanese cuisine, located on Hay Street towards the East Perth end near the Perth Mint.  I was introduced to this restaurant by a friend who recently just moved office to the building opposite mine and discovered this during one of her lunch outing with her colleagues.  She took no time to bring me there and introduced me to the specialty of the restaurant, their very own home made noodles!
This is the second time I’d been to the restaurant – I didn’t manage to take any photos the first time round as I had a busy day at work and was in no mood for a review (I gasped in horror as I read this comment myself – how could you Miss L!).  However, I found the food to be so good (loving the idea of their own home made noodles) that I went back two weeks later just so I can take some photos and blog about it, so here goes =).
The restaurant itself is quite small but very neat and tidy (obviously as it’s brand new!), simple yet comfortable.  It was very quiet both times I was there, not a prime location for a restaurant as the pedestrian traffic is minimal but hopefully it will gain more exposure as time goes by.
A peak inside their lunch menu…
A big sign advertising their home made noodle…
For lunch we had the
Seafood Noodle with Egg Sauce
($12) and
Chicken Dop Bup
($9.50).  At lunch time, there are certain items in the menu labelled
LUNCH SPECIAL
(in red) which automatically means a discounted price of $9.50 if you order them.  Not a bad price for a lunch dish so do take note!
I don’t know about you guys but anything ‘home made’ immediately gets a BIG tick in my books especially noodles – think of all the extra time and effort they go through!  I had the
Seafood Noodle   which came with mixed seafood, cabbage, cucumber and onions stirfried with egg sauce.  The noodles were soft and smooth – the sauce, just the right consistency, neither too runny or too thick – a pleasant experience to the palate.  A delicious dish!
The
Chicken Dop Bup
is a stirfried chicken dish with cabbage, onion, carrot served in a light chilli sauce with rice.  I didn’t manage to try this dish but thought it looked quite ordinary.  Comment from my friend was good – I forgot to extract more comments from her so I might have to try their rice dishes there myself next time.
A great place for lunch!  I had the
Gyoz a  the first time round and remembered it as being good too!  Definitely a place to try – not much service (not that I expect it anyways) but the waitstaff was friendly enough when he took our order.  Incidentally, one of my friend just moved into the apartment upstairs and told me that they charge an arm and a leg for dinner.  I haven’t tried their dinner menu yet but maybe I’ll just stick to their lunch dishes for now after their report.
Needless to say, I have been ‘Charm-ed’.
Rating:   3.75 out of 5 stars
Rating by: N.L.
Charm Restaurant
Telephone: 08 9218 8803
Address: 2/369 Hay Street, Perth
Posted in
Japanese ,
Korean
|
Tagged
Perth
|
3
Replies
East End Cafe, East Perth
Posted on
April 5, 2010
by
Miss L
3
http:
www.eastendcafe.com.au
East End Cafe is located on Bennett Street, opposite Hans Palace Chinese Restaurant in East Perth.  From the outside, it looks like a residential building, with its red bricked walls and low doorframe, the only give away being the big red sign up front stating that it’s a cafe.  I found out about this cafe through the senior engineer (RC) at work who had been raving on about the cheap but quality food they have
on offer here.  For lunch, prices start from $13 for a one-course meal, $15.50 for a two-course meal and $19.50 for a three-course meal (choice of starter, main and/or dessert).  He discovered this place whilst taking a walk one lunch break and loved it ever since.
This cafe is actually a training restaurant for workers/students to gain hands-on and practical experience in the hospitality industry, what better way than to serve what they produced to real customers!  A perfect training ground for the up and coming chefs, waitstaff etc.  I was fortunate to dine here one day when one of RC’s buddy couldn’t make it to lunch and I was asked to be his replacement.  So off we went one afternoon with another senior engineer (IP).  It was meant to be their reunion and I somehow became the tag-along =p.
The inside of the restaurant is very simple and the decor minimal.  The cafe itself is not very spacious either so bookings should be made in advanced as the place do become full during lunch time.  RC couldn’t get a table the week before when he tried to organise lunch there.
From reading other reviews of this place, it seems that the menu changes quite regularly.  On this occasion, these were the dishes we could choose from (there are four (4) choices for each section):
For
Starters : Bouillabaisse, Seafood Cocktail, Stuffed Mushroom or Traditional Caesar
For
Mains : Pan Fried Red Spot Emperor, Tandoori Chicken, Penne Pastra or Braised Steak
For
Desserts : Apple Tartan, Fresh Fruit Salad, Creme Caramel or Carrot Cake
Once order was taken, we were offered a mini entree (pastry with either egg or prawn topping) and bread to start off with.  The pastry was yum!  Before I forget, the service provided by the waitstaff up to then is worth a mention, on par with a silver service restaurant.
I had the 3-course meal which consisted of the
Stuffed Mushroom ,
Red Spot Emperor
and  Carrot Cake .
RC and IP both had the 2-course and ordered the same dishes – the
Bouillabaisse
and
Red Spot Emperor .
We also had the
Stoneleigh Sauvignon Blanc
from Marlborough, New Zealand ($22) which was crisp, dry and went really well with the emperor main.
The
Bouillabaisse  is a seafood broth, finished with prawns, mussels, white fish and presto crouton and is a popular French soup, originating from the city of Marseille according to IP, whose daughter is residing in France at the moment.  He thought the soup tasted great and loved it.  I had the
Stuffed Mushroom
which was served on a chiffonade of lettuce with a peach cocktail sauce.  Loved the presentation of the dish and the taste was superb – if only the dish was larger!
The
Pan Fried Red Spot Emperor  was served on a potato mash with a medley of vegetables finished with a lime and ginger beurre blanc.  It was a clear favourite from the menu as all three of us chose this dish as our main.  The meat was tender with a delectable sauce.  Serving was generous too.
I was full to the brim when lunch finished that day, especially after the
Carrot Cake
and coffee too.  Service throughout the meal was awesome and the head chef even came out to each table after the meal to enquire our thoughts on the food.  They do care about the quality of their food!  This is indeed a great discovery for lunch in the area, good value for money with the food and excellent service.  A place to try!
Rating:   4.25 out of 5 stars
Rating by: N.L.
East End Cafe
Telephone : 08 9325 3869
Address: 72 Bennett Street, East Perth
I couldn’t resist asking RC and IP for a photo together – they have such a cute friendship, meeting in the 70s at work, worked onsite in Fiji at one stage and now ended up seating in the same cubicle at the present company.  They always make me laugh when I hear their conversations in the office.  After much resistance from RC (he hates taking photos), he finally succumbed.  Thanks Roger =)
Posted in
Modern Australian
|
Tagged
East Perth
|
3
Replies
Izyan, Victoria Park
Posted on
April 3, 2010
by
Miss L
2
** LATEST UPDATE Apr 14**
Restaurant no longer operating!..replaced by Food For Me
Izyan is a fairly new Indonesian/Malay restaurant located along the busy Albany Highway eatery in Victoria Park.  Modern looking on the outside, the inside reveals a mixture of modern/asian theme – bright orange walls, tampered glass tables and biege chairs.  Tables are placed in close proximity to each other which could be quite uncomfortable at times but this is probably due to the oblong shape of the restaurant.  Tr avelling further in whilst looking for the bathroom, I found a small room with tables, hidden from public view but full of patrons.  So don’t be deceived when you enter and the restaurant is full, there is still spots at the back!  Just ask the staff!
I’d been here numerous times since they first opened as it is a convenient place to go to for a casual lunch / dinner – prices are reasonable, food / drinks are quick to arrive and the best thing is, the restaurant is very near my house.  What more can you ask for!
The first time I ate here, I ordered their
‘Teh Tarik’
to try – you can’t eat in an indonesian/malay restaurant and not sample this drink.  It’s a must.  Definition of ‘Teh Tarik’ is found below for those who are not familiar with this drink (courtesy of Wikipedia):
Teh tarik (literally pulled tea or 拉茶 in Mandarin) is a hot/cold tea beverage which can be commonly found in restaurants, outdoor stalls and kopitiams in Malaysia, Singapore and Brunei. Its name is derived from the pouring process of “pulling” the drink during preparation. It is made from black tea and condensed milk.
What I found entertaining was that the staff came and ‘pulled’ the tea at your table.  It was great and I couldn’t resist taking a photo of the process.  The drink costs $3 which is cheap.  Tasted good too.
Food that we had sampled in this restaurant included the following:
Roti Canai
($7) – plain pastry served with curry sauce
Gado-gado
($10.50) – steamed vegetable in peanut sauce
Seafood Fried Noodle
($8)
Nasi Goreng Belacan
($9)
Curry Laksa
($9)
Nasi Briyani
($9.50 for lunch/$12.50 for dinner) – choice of beef, chicken or fish served with vegetables pickle
Satay
4 per serve ($8.50) – choice of chicken, beef or lamb served with peanut sauce, rice cube and cucmber
Roti Telor
($7) – plain pastry filled with egg served with curry sauce
Martabak
($8) – plain pastry filled with egg and minced beef served with curry sauce
In general, I thought their
Rotis
were on the average side, not as crunchy and fluffy that I have had elsewhere although the curry sauce that came with the Rotis were great.  The
Gado-gado
wasn’t that good either so I wouldn’t order it again.  However, all their
Nasi
(rice) and
Noodles
dishes were great.
For desserts, we had tried the following:
Pulut Hitam
– black glutinuous rice pudding
Sago Gula Melaka
– sago topped with coconut cream and brown sugar
Ice Kacang
– shaved ice with jelly, beans and flavoured syrup
The desserts were not really to my liking, I’m used to the authentic ones you find in Malaysia which I grew up with so will not be ordering these again either.
Overall, I’d found with this restaurant, there are some great dishes in the menu, some average ones and some not so good.  As I’d been a few times, I know now what to order when I go there again!  Of course, this also depends on individual tastebuds.  Staff were friendly on all occasions that I’d been.  Not a restaurant that I love but woud be back again for casual eating.
Rating:   3 out of 5 stars
Rating by: N.L.
Izyan
Telephone : 08 9361 3377
Address: 877 Albany Highway, Victoria Park
Posted in
Indonesian
|
Tagged
Victoria Park
|
2
Replies
Lo Zucchero, Dalkeith
Posted on
April 2, 2010
by
S. Megan
2
Website:
http://www.lozucchero.com.au/
This little hearty cafe sits in the middle of a residential area right in the soul of Dalkeith. So for those unsuspecting people like myself who don’t really drive in the inner roads, I would have never known about this place if not for good googlers like S.K!
The first time we decided to come here was sometime, back and since then I have been back quite a number of times, and haven’t been disappointed up till now (other than desserts which I will get to in a little bit).
As you walk in, you will realise that this is not the usual set up of any restaurant/cafe. It’s got a good size of a restaurant, and it’s got the set up like a cafe, except they’ve added efforts in making it look more homely… they even have handbags and shoes for sale on the right hand side! On the left are the drink fridges, and other little items that you can probably purchase if interested. A little something different from the ordinary for sure!
Our first visit there was for dinner, and subsequently, I have been there for lunch, then dinner then dinner again. Here are the items ordered (in no particular order!):
Bruschetta
Steak Sandwich
Chicken, sundried tomato, broccoli, creamy pumpkin, roasted walnuts and parmesan (Penne pasta)
Carbonara, saute of smoked bacon, pure cream, garlic, parsley and parmesan (Rigatoni pasta)
Chicken Saltimbocca, half a roast chicken with prosciutto, sage, roast pumpkin, potato and carrot	 with a thyme and white wine sauce GF
Risotto, wood fired duck and porcini mushroom risotto finished with marinated parsley and shaved parmesan GF
MILANO Italian sausage, peperoni, roasted capsicum and kalamata olives (Pizza)
MARGHERITA Roma tomato base, fresh mozzarella and basil (we added italian sausage!) (Pizza)
LOMBARDIA Roasted egg plant, capsicum, zucchini, ricotta, parmigiano & parsley (Pizza)
TOSCANA Baby spinach, butternut pumpkin, field mushrooms, fetta cheese and a touch of garlic olive oil (Pizza)
TRENTINO Assortment of mushrooms, fresh brie cheese, avocado and parmigiano (Pizza)
Assortment of dessert & Coffee (Photos will speak for themselves later!)
Because of the huge amount of things I have tried, I will just mention the ones that I really love, and give a generic review of the rest in terms of “entree”, “mains”, “pasta”, and “pizza”. :) And before I start on the review, I do apologise for the lack of photos to make up for the amount I actually tried – I had too much of an appetite for some meals more than others, so the camera did not get a chance to be part of the meal.
My favourite is really the pizza’s that they serve here at Lo Z. It’s the variety that they have, and the fact that they are willing to go into the more unconventional flavours like egg plant, butternut pumpkin, baby spinach, etc. etc. Ingredients that I haven’t seen much around here in Perth’s pizza’s. It’s perfect for vegetarians and unlike the meat pizzas, the ones with the vegetables provide a lighter tone for the tummy, so girls eat to your hearts’ content!!
I would recommend trying the
Chicken Saltimbocca
too – a very special dish that has the chicken skin all crispy, with the meat tender and juicy, with a nice serving of light gravy below too!
Bruschetta
was lovely – a whole lot of onions though. So if you are not really an onion lover, this might be a bit tough to take in. The taste was perfect tho’! Would have loved the bread a little softer than it was when we tried it – a tad too hard. but kudos on the way the tomatoes came out!
Steak sandwich
is only available for lunch and it was lovely. Not the best around, but definitely one that I would be willing to eat again should I return there for lunch.
Pasta’s
The pasta’s were rather tasty, but the
Carbonara
that we tried the other evening had a tad too much saltiness to it. It’s either the bacon adding too much flavour, or the chef added more salt than usual.
Would love to try the other non-creamy based pasta’s next time I go. But for now, average.
Pizza’s
As I said, the pizzas here at Lo Z are the BOMB! Absolutely lovin’ them. They got the thin crust with a nice fresh taste to their dough. Lovely. Lovely. the next thing for me to try would be their dessert pizzas!
Mains
As mentioned, the Chicken was a special one, but the other mains that I have seen being served out of the kitchen made me drool all the same!
The lamb seemed to be a popular choice amongst the diners that I have seen over the last couple of occasions. The seafood options were also pretty hot. So keep in mind these!
Desserts & Coffee
They are quite average. I wouldn’t spend the moolah on desserts over here, but the coffee’s quite good. They do have some nice gelato ice cream should you be with some kids or if you are a ice cream lover yourself! Great way to end the evening especially during the summer months.
Overall, Lo Z is a nice casual place to be in, be it for lunch or dinner. I understand that there is breakfast in this establishment as well, and I might very well be heading there for some goodmorningsunshine moments!
Yet another place to add to my pizza-delights. :)
Rating:
3.5 out of 5 stars
Rating by:
S.T. a.k.a Miss Egg
Lo Zucchero
Telephone : (08) 9386 7733
Address:
99 Waratah Ave, Dalkeith, WA 6009
Posted in
Italian
|
Tagged
Dalkeith
|
2
Replies
Post navigation
←
Older posts
Join! Like! Tweet!
Recent reviews by Perth Food E.
What's this?
Would you LIKE us?
Would you LIKE us?
The Tweets!
Yesterday's lunch at Darlington Estate Winery. The standout dish was the pork belly. Great weather to be out and about! 				 1 week ago
Miss Egg: Thank you all for your generous support all these years, and helping PFE achieve such a great outcome...
fb.me/6RvDt4OTP
1 week ago
Miss L just booked at Public House
dimmi.com.au
via @ Dimmi
2 weeks ago
Matcha Lava Cake! Made these over the weekend, left them in the freezer until dessert time, in the oven for 16mins...
fb.me/HP2PBF4b
3 weeks ago
Miss L: Hi All! Thank you so much for everyone's support all these years. We started the blog in 2008 with three...
fb.me/7v4D1SHn1
3 weeks ago
Polls!
FISH & CHIPS
#1 Groper & His Wife
#2 Kaili's Fremantle
#3 Fish Shack Scarborough
#4 Queens Park Railway Pde
#5 Swish&Chips Mt Lawley
#6 Fish on the Terrace North Perth
#7 Lure's Alfred Cove/Melville
#8 Sweet Lips Leederville
Where Are These Places? Applecross
Ascot
Balcatta
Bedford
Belmont
Bibra Lake
Booragoon
Bridgetown
Bullcreek
Bunbury
Burswood
Cannington
Canning Vale
Caversham
Claremont
Cockburn Central
Como
Cottesloe
Crawley
Dalkeith
East Fremantle
East Perth
Floreat
Fremant
Fremantle
Geraldton
Girrawheen
Gooseberry Hill
Guildford
Heathridge
Herne Hill
Highgate
Hillarys
Joondalup
Kardinya
Langford
Leederville
Mandurah
Margaret River
Maylands
Melbourne
Middle Swan
Morley
Mosman Park
Mt Claremont
Mt Hawthorn
Mt Lawley
Mundaring
Nedlands
North Beach
Northbridge
North Perth
Osborne Park
Osbourne Park
Padbury
Perth
Rockingham
Scarborough
Shelley
Shenton Park
Sorrento
South Fremantle
South Perth
Spearwood
Subiaco
Swanbourne
Swan Valley
Upper Swan
Victoria Park
Wanneroo
Wembley
West Perth
Willetton
Wilson
Woodlands Search Your Type of Food! Search Your Type of Food!
Select Category
Asian  (19)
Asian Fusion  (1)
Australian  (33)
Bakery  (4)
Bars  (7)
Breakfast  (39)
Brewery  (2)
Cafe  (53)
Chinese  (39)
Competition  (7)
Degustation  (5)
Dessert/Drinks  (23)
Dim Sum  (9)
Eat Drink Perth  (2)
European  (2)
Events  (40)
Fine Dining  (14)
Foreign Material  (6)
French  (7)
German  (1)
Good Food & Wine  (5)
Guest Blog  (1)
High Tea  (3)
Indian  (4)
Indonesian  (3)
Irish  (1)
Italian  (26)
Japanese  (28)
Korean  (6)
Mediterranean  (10)
Mexican  (3)
Middle Eastern  (1)
Modern Australian  (63)
Nepalese  (1)
Pizza  (1)
Polls  (1)
Products  (8)
Publicity  (19)
Pubs/Grills  (16)
Seafood  (1)
Steak House  (4)
Tapas  (9)
Thai  (7)
Uncategorized  (7)
Use your Entertainment Book!  (63)
Vietnamese  (6)
Who's Watchin'?
702,215 hits
Around the World
What do YOU say?
Miss L on
Ohnamiya, Nedlands Alison on
Ohnamiya, Nedlands amrit on
****Recipe Book ‘Carbs b… Dining Perth
on
150 EAST, Ascot Trevor Cugley on
ToTo, Victoria Park Miss L on
Bamboo Authentic Singaporean R… Tim on
Bamboo Authentic Singaporean R… Miss L on
1907 Restaurant, Perth
Non-Foodie?
Total Hits
Wellness WA
Other Great Foody Websites!
Abstract Gourmet
Beaufort Street Blog
Breakfast in Perth
Foodie Cravings
Libertine Eats
Perth Food Journal
Perth Munchkin
Posse
Simon Says Eat
Tannic Teeth
The Aussie Bite
The Food Pornographer
PFE's Everywhere!
Eating WA
PFE's Posse Street
Urban Spoon
Subscribe to PFE!
Enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Join 127 other followers
Where Have We Gone?
Where Have We Gone?
Select Month
September 2015  (2)
July 2015  (1)
June 2015  (8)
March 2015  (1)
February 2015  (2)
January 2015  (1)
August 2014  (1)
March 2014  (8)
February 2014  (12)
January 2014  (6)
December 2013  (4)
November 2013  (2)
October 2013  (2)
September 2013  (6)
August 2013  (9)
July 2013  (6)
June 2013  (9)
May 2013  (1)
April 2013  (3)
March 2013  (13)
February 2013  (6)
January 2013  (8)
December 2012  (11)
November 2012  (5)
October 2012  (8)
September 2012  (4)
August 2012  (6)
July 2012  (6)
June 2012  (10)
May 2012  (5)
April 2012  (9)
March 2012  (7)
February 2012  (4)
January 2012  (13)
December 2011  (6)
November 2011  (5)
October 2011  (6)
September 2011  (1)
July 2011  (4)
June 2011  (3)
May 2011  (5)
April 2011  (3)
March 2011  (4)
February 2011  (2)
January 2011  (4)
December 2010  (6)
November 2010  (1)
October 2010  (4)
September 2010  (5)
August 2010  (3)
July 2010  (7)
June 2010  (5)
May 2010  (6)
April 2010  (8)
March 2010  (7)
February 2010  (6)
January 2010  (7)
December 2009  (7)
November 2009  (10)
October 2009  (8)
September 2009  (9)
August 2009  (8)
July 2009  (7)
June 2009  (10)
May 2009  (4)
April 2009  (7)
March 2009  (4)
February 2009  (2)
January 2009  (10)
December 2008  (4)
Search
The Twenty Eleven Theme .
|
Blog at WordPress.com .
Perth Food Engineers
Create a free website or blog at WordPress.com .
The Twenty Eleven Theme .
Follow
Follow “Perth Food Engineers”
Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.
Join 127 other followers
Build a website with WordPress.com
Add your thoughts here... (optional)
Post to
Cancel