Louis XIII, the King of France (From Whom I Descend) - JamesWilsonWhiteMD
JamesWilsonWhiteMD Search this site
Homepage Chapter 1 Chapter 2 Chapter 3 Chapter 4 Chapter 5 Chapter 6 Chapter 7 Chapter 8 Chapter 9 Chapter 10 Chapter 11 Chapter 12 Chapter 13 Chapter 14 ADVANCED POINT (A) The Narcissist ADVANCED POINT (B) Louis XIII, the King of France (From Whom I Descend) ADVANCED POINT (C) In my youth my one ambition was making money, more and more. ADVANCED POINT (D) ADVANCED POINT (E)
Homepage ‎ > ‎ Chapter 1 ‎ > ‎
Louis XIII, the King of France (From Whom I Descend)
Louis XIII
(27 September 1601 – 14 May 1643) reigned as
King of France
and
Navarre
from 1610 to 1643.
Contents
[ hide ]
1
Early life, 1601—1610 2
Rule of Marie de' Medici, 1610—1617 3
Asendancy of Charles de Luynes, 1617—1621 4
Rule by Council, 1622—1624 5
Ministry of Cardinal Richelieu, 1624—1642 6
Personal relationships 7
Marriage and issue 8
Louis XIII in fiction and film 9
Bibliography 10
See also 11
External links 12
Ancestors
[ edit ]
Early life, 1601—1610
Born at the
Château de Fontainebleau , Louis XIII was the eldest
child
of
Henry IV of France
(1589–1610) and
Marie de' Medici . As the eldest son of the king, he was a
Fils de France . His father was the first
Bourbon
King of France, having succeeded his ninth cousin,
Henry III of France
(1574–89), in application of
Salic law . Louis XIII's paternal grandparents were
Antoine de Bourbon, Duke of Vendome
and
Jeanne d'Albret , Queen of Navarre; his maternal grandparents were
Francesco I de' Medici, Grand Duke of Tuscany
and
Johanna, archduchess of Austria , and
Eleonora de' Medici , his maternal aunt, was his
godmother [ 1 ]
[ edit ]
Rule of
Marie de' Medici , 1610—1617
Louis XIII ascended to the throne in 1610, at the age of eight and a half, upon the
assassination
of his father. His mother,
Marie de' Medici , acted as
Regent
until Louis XIII came of age at thirteen. Marie maintained most of her husband's ministers, with the exception of
Maximilien de Béthune, duc de Sully , who was unpopular in the country. She mainly relied on
Nicolas de Neufville, seigneur de Villeroy ,
Noël Brûlart de Sillery , and
Pierre Jeannin . Marie pursued a moderate policy, confirming the
Edict of Nantes . She was not, however, able to prevent rebellion by nobles like
Henry II de Bourbon, prince de Condé ,
the next-in-line to the throne. Condé did squablle with Marie in 1614,
briefly raising an army, but he received little public support and
Marie was able to raise her own army. Nevertheless, Marie agreed to
call an
Estates General
to address Condé's grievances.
Louis in 1616.
This Estates General was delayed until Louis XIII formally came of
age on his 13th birthday. Although Louis's coming of age formally ended
Marie's regency, she remained the
de facto
ruler of France. This Estates General accomplished little, spending its time discussing the relationship of France to the
Papacy
and the
venality
of offices, but not reaching any resolutions.
Beginning in 1615, Marie came to rely increasingly on
Concino Concini , who now assumed the role of her
favourite . This further antagonized Condé, who launched another rebellion in 1616.
Huguenot
leaders supported Condé's rebellion, which led the young Louis XIII to
conclude that they would never be loyal subjects. Soon, however,
the bishop of Luçon
joined this rebellion.
In the meantime,
Charles d'Albert , the
Grand Falconer of France , convinced Louis XIII that he should break with his mother and support the rebels. As a result,
Concino Concini
was assassinated (24 April 1617) and Marie was removed to power and sent to exile in
Blois . Louis created Charles d'Albret the first
duke of Luynes , and Luynes now became Louis's
favourite .
[ edit ]
Asendancy of
Charles de Luynes , 1617—1621
Luynes was soon as unpopular as Concini had been. Other nobles
resented what they saw as Luynes's monopolization of the king. At the
same time, Luynes was seen as not as competent as Henri IV's old
ministers, who had surrounded Marie de' Medici, and who were now dying
off.
The
Thirty Years' War
in 1618. The French court was initially unsure what side to support. On the one hand, France's
traditional rivalry
with the
House of Habsburg
argued in favour of intervening on behalf of the Protestant powers. On
the other hand, Louis XIII had had a heavily religious Catholic
upbringing, and his natural inclination was therefore to support the
Catholic
Holy Roman Emperor ,
Ferdinand II .
The French nobles were further antagonized against Luynes by the 1618 revocation of the
paulette
and by the sale of offices in 1620. Marie de' Medici, exiled in Blois,
became the obvious rallying point for this discontent, and
the bishop of Luçon
was allowed to act as her chief adviser, serving as a go-between as Marie and the government.
French nobles launched a rebellion in 1620, but their forces were easily routed by royal forces at
Les Ponts-de-Cé
in August 1620. Louis then launched an expedition against the
Huguenots
of
Béarn ,
who had defied a number of royal decisions. This expedition managed to
re-establish Catholicism in Béarn. However, the Béarn expedition drove
Huguenots in other provinces into a rebellion led by
Henri, duc de Rohan .
In 1621, Louis XIII formally reconciled with his mother. Luynes was created
Constable of France
and Louis and Luynes set out to quell the Huguenot rebellion. A siege at the Huguenot stronghold of
Montauban
had to be abandoned after three months, owing to the large number of royal troops who had succumbed to
camp fever . One of the victims of camp fever was Luynes, who died in December 1621.
[ edit ]
Rule by Council, 1622—1624
A young Louis XIII.
Following the death of Luynes, Louis determined that he would rule
by council. His mother returned from exile and entered this council in
early 1622. In the council,
Henry II de Bourbon, prince de Condé
recommended violent suppression of the Huguenots. The 1622 campaign,
however, followed the pattern of the previous year: royal forces won
some early victories, but were unable to complete a siege, this time at
the fortress of
Montpellier .
The rebellion was ended by the
Treaty of Montpellier , signed by Louis XIII and
Henri, duc de Rohan
in October 1622. This treaty confirmed the tenets of the
Edict of Nantes : several Huguenot fortresses were to be razed, but the Huguenots retained control of
Montauban
and
La Rochelle .
Louis ultimately dismissed
Noël Brûlart de Sillery
and
Pierre Brulart, vicomte de Puisieux
in 1624 because of his displeasure with how they handled the diplomatic situation over the
Valtellina
with
Spain . Valtellina was an area with Catholic inhabitants under the
suzerainty
of the Protestant
Grisons . It served as an important route to Italy for France. Spain was constantly interfering in the Valtellina, which angered Louis.
[ edit ]
Ministry of
Cardinal Richelieu , 1624—1642
Louis XIII on horseback, with
Cardinal Richelieu .
Cardinal Richelieu
played a major role in Louis XIII's administration from 1624,
decisively shaping the destiny of France for the next eighteen years.
As a result of Richelieu's work, Louis XIII became one of the first
examples of an
absolute monarch . Under Louis and Richelieu, the crown successfully intervened in the
Thirty Years' War
against the
Habsburgs , managed to keep the French nobility in line, and retracted the political and military privileges granted to the
Huguenots
by Henry IV (while maintaining their religious freedoms). In addition, Louis had the port of
Le Havre
modernized and built a powerful navy.
Unfortunately time and circumstances never permitted King and
Cardinal to attend to the administrative reforms (particularly of
France's tax system) which were urgently needed.
Louis also worked to reverse the trend of promising French artists
leaving for Italy to work and study. He commissioned the artists
Nicolas Poussin
and
Philippe de Champaigne
to decorate the
Louvre . In foreign matters, Louis organized the development and administration of
New France , expanding its settlements westward along the
Saint Lawrence River
from
Quebec City
to
Montreal .
Royal styles of
King Louis XIII
Par la grâce de Dieu, Roi de France et de Navarre
Reference style
His
Most Christian Majesty
Spoken style
Your Most Christian Majesty
Alternative style
Monsieur Le Roi
House of Bourbon
Henri IV
Sister
Catherine, Duchess of Lorraine
Children included
Louis XIII
Elisabeth, Queen of Spain
Christine Marie, Duchess of Savoy
Nicholas Henri, duc d'Orléans
Gaston, duc d'Orléans
Henrietta Maria, Queen of England
Louis XIII
Children
Louis XIV
Philippe, duc d'Orléans
Louis XIV
Children included
Louis, Dauphin
Marie-Anne
Marie-Therèse
Philippe-Charles, duc d'Anjou
Grandchildren included
Louis, Dauphin
King Felipe V of Spain
Charles, duc de Berry
Great Grandchildren included
Louis, Dauphin
Louis XV
Louis XV
Children included
Louise-Elisabeth, duchesse de Parme
Madame Henriette
Louis, Dauphin
Madame Adélaïde
Madame Victoire
Madame Sophie
Madame Louise
Grandchildren included
Marie Clotilde, Queen of Sardinia
Louis XVI
Louis XVIII
Charles X
Madame Élisabeth
Louis XVI
Children included
Marie-Thérèse, duchesse d'Angouleme
Louis-Joseph, Dauphin
Louis XVII
Sophie-Beatrix
Louis XVII
Louis XVIII
Charles X
Children
Louis XIX
Charles, duc de Berry
Grandchildren included
Henri V
Louise, duchesse de Parme
French monarchy, 843 – 1870
v   •   d   •   e
[ edit ]
Personal relationships
On
9 November , 1615, aged only 14, Louis XIII was married to a Habsburg princess,
Anne of Austria
(1601–66), daughter of
Philip III of Spain
(1578–1621). This marriage followed a tradition of cementing military
and political alliances between the Catholic powers of France and Spain
with royal marriages. The tradition went back to the marriage of
Philip II of Spain
with the French princess,
Elisabeth of Valois , the daughter of
Henry II of France , in 1559 as part of the
Peace of Cateau-Cambrésis .
The marriage, like many Bourbon-Habsburg relationships, was only
briefly happy, and the king's duties often kept them apart. After 23
years of marriage and four miscarriages, Anne finally gave birth to a
son in 1638.
There is no evidence that Louis had mistresses (consequently earning the title of 'Louis the
Chaste '),
but persistent rumours insinuated that he may have been
homosexual
or at least
bisexual .
Tallemant des Réaux , in his
Historiettes , explicitly speculated what happened in the king's bed. [ 2 ]
A
liaison
with an
equerry , Francois de Baradas, ended when the latter lost favour fighting a duel after duelling had been forbidden by royal decree. [ 3 ]
He was also allegedly captivated by
Marquis de Cinq-Mars ;
who was later executed for conspiring with the Spanish enemy in time of
war. Tallemant described how on a royal journey, the king "sent M. le
Grand to undress, who returned, adorned like a bride. 'To bed, to bed'
he said to him impatiently... and the mignon was not in before the king
was already kissing his hands." [ 4 ]
After Louis's death, apparently of complications of intestinal
tuberculosis , on 14 May 1643, in the
Louvre , his wife Anne acted as regent for their four-year-old son, the new
Louis XIV .
[ edit ]
Marriage and issue
On 24 November 1615, Louis XIII married
Anne of Austria
(22 September 1601 – 20 January 1666). They were childless for almost
twenty-three years and had nearly lost hope when the heir to the
throne, the future
Louis XIV ,
was born. Many regarded this birth as a divine miracle and, in show of
gratitude to God for the long-awaited birth of an heir, his parents
named him Louis- Dieudonné
(“God-given”). As another sign of
gratitude, according to several interpretations, seven months before
his birth, France was dedicated by Louis XIII to the
Virgin Mary , who, many believed, had interceded for the perceived miracle. [ 5 ] [ 6 ] [ 7 ]
However, the text of the dedication does not mention the royal
pregnancy and birth as one of its reasons. Also, Louis XIII himself is
said to have expressed his skepticism with regards to the miracle after
his son's birth. [ 8 ]
The couple had the following children:
Name
Lifespan
Notes
stillborn child
December 1619
stillborn child
14 March 1622
stillborn child
1626
stillborn child
April 1631
Louis XIV, King of France
5 September 1638 - 1 September 1715
Married
Maria Theresa of Spain
(1638 - 1683) in 1660. Had issue.
Philippe I, Duke of Orléans
21 September 1640 - 8 June 1701
married (1)
Henrietta Anne, Princess of England
(1644 - 1670) in 1661. Had issue. Married (2)
Elizabeth Charlotte, Princess Palatine
(1652 - 1722) in 1671. Had issue.
[ edit ]
Louis XIII in fiction and film
Louis XIII as painted by Justus van Egmont in the 1670s.
Louis XIII , his wife
Anne , and Cardinal Richelieu all became central figures in
Alexandre Dumas,
père 's novel,
The Three Musketeers
and subsequent
film adaptations .
The book depicts Louis as a man willing to have Richelieu as a powerful
advisor but aware of his scheming; he is depicted as a bored and sour
man, dwarfed by Richelieu's competence and intellect. Films such as
George Sidney's
or
Richard Lester's
tend to treat Louis XIII as comical character by depicting him as bumbling and incompetent. Louis XIII, his wife Anne, Cardinal Richelieu, Cardinal Mazarin and
members of the royal family are mentioned throughout the course of the
1632 Series . Louis XIII also appears in novels of
Robert Merle 's
Fortune de France
series. Ken Russell
directed the film
The Devils , in which Louis XIII is a significant character,
albeit
one with no resemblance to the real man. Louis XIII is portrayed as an effeminate
homosexual
who amuses himself by
shooting
Protestants
dressed up as birds. The film was based on
Aldous Huxley 's book
The Devils of Loudun . Louis XIII also appears in the
Doctor Who
audio drama
The Church and the Crown .
[ edit ]
Bibliography
^
James, Ralph N. (1897).
Painters and Their Works .
Michigan :
University of Michigan . pp. 421 .
http://books.google.com/books?id=LoSQhHjfwpoC&printsec=titlepage&dq=#PPP1,M1 .   ^
"The King gave his first sign of affection for anybody in the person of
his coachman, Saint-Amour. After that he showed feelings for Haran, the
keeper of his dogs." ^
Louis Cromption,
Homosexuality and Civilization ,
London, 1991. The grandson of Henry III, Saint-Luc, penned the
irreverent rhyme: 'Become a bugger, Baradas / if you are not already
one / like Maugiron my grandfather / and La Valette'. ^
Louis Cromption,
Homosexuality and Civilization , London, 1991. ^
Our Lady of Graces and the birth of Louis XIV
The website of the
Sanctuary of Our Lady at Cotignac, Provence . Retrieved on 2008-01-24 ^
Henri Bremond .
La Provence mystique au XVIIe siècle .
Paris: Plon-Nourrit, 1908. p. 381. "Sans l'assurance d'avoir un fils,
Louis XIII n'aurait pas fait le voeu de 1638." Translation: "Without
the assurance of having a son, Louis XIII would not have made the vow
of 1638." ^
"Louis XIV" . MSN Encata. 2008 .
http://encarta.msn.com/encyclopedia_761572792/Louis_XIV.html . Retrieved on 2008-01-20 .   ^
Claude Dulong.
Anne d’Autriche .
Paris: Hachette, 1980. "Irrité de voir tant de courtisans parler de
"miracle", Louis XIII aurait répliqué que "ce n'était point là si grand
miracle qu'un mari couchât avec sa femme et lui fasse un enfant."
Translation: "Irritated to see so many courtiers speak of a “miracle”,
Louis XIII is said to have replied: “it was not such a great miracle
that a husband slept with his wife and made her a child.”"
Moote, A. Lloyd.
Louis XIII, the Just . Berkeley, CA; Los Angeles; London: University of California Press, 1991 (paperback,
ISBN 0-520-07546-3 ). Willis, Daniel A. (comp).
The Descendants of Louis XIII . Clearfield, 1999. Huxley, Aldous. "The Devils of Loudun". The 1952 book tells the story of the trial of
Urbain Grandier , priest of the town who was
tortured
and burned at the stake in 1634. James Howell
"Louis XIII" English historiographer Royal 1661-1666
Comments
Sign in | Recent Site Activity | Report Abuse | Print Page | Powered By
Google Sites