Universal Life | CRYSTI·OLOGY
Skip to content
CRYSTI·OLOGY
Exploring Life. Experiencing El Paso.
Menu
Home Blog Résumé
Tag: Universal Life
My First Tattoo: The Sigil of Babalon
December 27, 2011 March 16, 2013 2 Comments
I got my first tattoo yesterday thanks to  Sic Studio / The House of Color.
This tattoo carries a lot of meaning for me. It is the Sigil of Babalon and the
Babalon
is a figure that is central to my practice and is revered in many ways.
The pain was somewhat minimal. This tattoo was implemented between my shoulder blades, so the gun strokes on the right and left sides hurt more than the strokes on the spine.
The piece took about 2 and a half hours to complete. It measures about 3 to 4 inches in diameter and I gave artistic freedom to David Ibarra, the tattoo artist, to modify the image as he saw fit.
He decided to shade the star in going from red to black and also added the swirled embellishments on the outsides of the circle.
The concept of Babalon is an archetype that is steeped in historical significance across a multitude of faiths, not just Thelema. The Babalon is known by many names: The Victorious Queen, The Scarlet Woman, the hidden name of
Nuit , The Great Mother, The Mother of Abominations  and  The Gateway to the City of Pyramids. Babalon is also associated with the Goddess Ishtar.
One of her main purposes is the celebration of the sexual energy that emanates from every which one of us. From her all life derives. I compare Babalon with the Catholic diety known as ‘The
Virgin Mary ‘ although it would be obvious that in this case, virginity and piety would be the major exclusions.
A few quotes that can help illustrate our viewpoint of
Sex :
“When you have proved that God is merely a name for the sex instinct, it appears to me not far to the perception that the sex instinct is God.”
” The sex-instinct is one of the most deeply-seated expressions of the will; and it must not be restricted, either negatively by preventing its free function, or positively by insisting on its false function.”
“Every one should discover, by experience of every kind, the extent and intention of his own sexual Universe.”
For those
Thelemites
who would enjoy reading a little more into the lore and purpose of Our Lady, you can refer to the following resources to gain more familiarity to her:
Liber CLVI  (also known as Liber Cheth vel Vallum Abigni) : “It instructs the aspirant how to dissolve his personality in the
Universal Life .”
The Confessions of Aleister Crowley (Chapter 66)
Liber Al Vel Legis
Wikipedia’s entry for
Babalon
I hope to get another set of tattoos next month. Stay tuned!
31.806491
-106.507642
Follow Blog via Email
Enter your email address to follow this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Join 5,430 other followers
Recent Posts
Travelogue: Dripping Springs in Las Cruces, NM
Pinteresting Food [2] : How To Make Homemade Hummus
How To Survive A Juice Detox Cleanse
Beer, Music and Writing | Fusion Magazine #79
There’s A First Time For Everything: #MealPrepMondays
Popular Posts
How to Plan an Expo and Not Go Insane
The Absolute Guide to Extracting MP3's from a Soundboard
Confused About The Last Exorcism? Don't Be
WELCOME!
Evernote Love #4: The 2015 Moleskine Evernote Planner
October Doodle: Thoth Tarot Deck Box
Ethics and Thelema
OMFG Boz Eyeglasses!
New Years Anthem 2010 By Fatman Scoop and DJ CLass Lyrics
May Doodle: The Goddess Kwan Yin
Associated With:
Femfessionals
Fusion Magazine
Paso Del Norte Health Foundation
Texas Trost Society
Visit El Paso
About Crysti I'm driven by two things: my passion for El Paso and showing the world the talent that the City has to offer. I've done plenty of freelance writing in the past and have written for publications such as
El Paso Times ,
Fusion Magazine ,
915 Lifestyle
and
SMG Events . Social & Multimedia Coordinator for
Destination El Paso . See my full portfolio
HERE.
Visit El Paso Instagram
Twitter
Facebook
Pinterest
LinkedIn
Google+
Email
Create a free website or blog at WordPress.com .
|
The sela Theme .
Follow
Follow “CRYSTI·OLOGY”
Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.
Join 5,430 other followers
Build a website with WordPress.com