Drink World Records
SET A RECORD!
Explore Records
Blog
Log in / Sign Up
Categories
»
Drinking World Records
»
Drink World Records
Drink World Records
Drink Challenges
Drink More Water In One Minite
Fastest Time To Drink A Milkshake
Fastest Time To Drink A 1/2 Gallon Of Water
Most Bars Visited In Hoboken, New Jersey In 6 Hours
Sort by
Top Rated
Relevance
Alphabetically
Most Recent
Top Rated
38 Records Found
02:54
Largest Bloody Mary Garnished With A Late Night TV Host
Brian Murphy
MTV's Middle Of The Night Show host Brian Murphy put on a celery costume and garnished a Bloody Mary 53,721.6 fluid ounces in size. RecordSetter Official Ella Morton was present to adjudicate the attempt.
Largest Snapple Cap Collection
Chris Free
Chris F. has 13,477 Snapple bottle caps in his collection. He has been collecting caps for 10 years. Some of his collections include the Snapple Real Facts caps and caps with a complete sweepstakes winning sequence. He has collected the caps through his local recycling center and through his friends and family.
01:51
Most Ingredients In A Smoothie
DL
Dafna L. put in 72 different ingredients in a smoothie.
01:53
Fastest Time To Eat McDonald's Big Mac Meal
Essex Animal
The Essex Animal ate a McDonald's Big Mac, regular-sized fries and chugged a large drink in 59.39 seconds.
WARNING: Speed eating can be extremely dangerous. Please do not attempt this record unless you are above the age of 18 and trained as a professional eater. We will not accept submissions in this category from minors.
Largest Bloody Mary Toast
Bricks Sports Bar & Grill
A total of 83 people from Bricks Sports Bar & Grill in Colorado Springs toast their Bloody Mary cocktails. They set the record to raise money for Black Forest Fire & Rescue.
00:57
Most Beverage Cans Opened At Once
Southern
Illinois University - Edwardsville
Students and members at the Southern Illinois University Edwardsville opened 1,134 Pepsi Next cans at once during their school’s men’s soccer match against UW-Milwaukee. They set the record as part of the SIUE Experience as the university welcomes students for the fall semester. Learn more about the feat here.
00:08
Largest Collection Of Kool-Aid Fun Points
Isabella Ardhuerumly
Isabella Ardhuerumly has a collection of 549Kool-Aid Fun Points.
See full-sized image here.
00:28
Fastest Time To Drink A Can Of Yoo-Hoo
Justin McLoughlin
Justin M. drank an 11-ounce can of Yoo-hoo in 7.81 seconds.
WARNING: Speed drinking can be extremely dangerous. Please do not attempt this record unless you are above the age of 18 and trained as a professional speed drinker. We will not accept submissions in this category from minors.
06:16
Fastest Time To Consume A Six-Piece KFC Family Feast And Drink (UK)
Essex Animal
The Essex Animal ate a six-piece KFC family feast, including one drink, in 14 minutes, 9.00 seconds.
WARNING: Speed eating can be extremely dangerous. Please do not attempt this record unless you are above the age of 18 and trained as a professional. We will not accept submissions in this category from minors.
01:22
Fastest Time To Drink Eight Ounces Of Lemonade With 20 Peanut M&M's In Mouth
Ethan Knox
Ethan Knox placed 20 Peanut Mamp;M’s in his mouth and then drank
eight ounces of lemonade in 11.50 seconds.
NOTE: Stuffing food in your mouth can be dangerous. Please use caution
and have adult supervision on hand.
00:57
Fastest Time To Make And Drink A Packet Of 'Country Time On The Go' Lemonade
Olivet Coaches
An Olivet Coach made and consumed one packet of Country Time On The Go Lemonade and a bottle of water in 35.19 seconds.
NOTE: Speed drinking can be dangerous. Please use caution when making an attempt.
02:00
Greatest Height From Which To Pour Egg Nog Into Someone Else's Mouth
Craig Morrison
Craig Morrison poured egg nog into Sam Stilson’s mouth from a height
of 184 centimeters (72.4 inches).
Morrison set the record during a live taping Breakfast Television
in Toronto, Ontario, Canada. RecordSetter Council president Dan Rollman
and senior official Corey Henderson presided over the attempt.
Most Drinks Included In A Globally Diverse Drink Tasting Session
Alastair Coote
Alastair Coote attended a drink session that had 80 globally diverse drinks. Some of the drinks included Salva Vida Lager from Honduras, Kalik Lager from The Bahamas, and Tiger Beer from Singapore.
03:48
Fastest Time To Drink Four Large McDonalds Shamrock Shakes
Jamie McDonald
Jamie M. drank four large McDonald's Shamrock shakes in three minutes, 5.00 seconds. He set the record as part of his St. Patrick's Day celebration.
NOTE: Speed drinking can be dangerous. Please use caution when making an attempt.
08:02
Most Lime Juice Bottles Consumed Consecutively
Naader Reda
Naader R. consumed four bottles of lime juice, 128 fluid ounces in total, consecutively.
WARNING: Speed drinking can be extremely dangerous. Please do not attempt this record unless you are above the age of 18 and trained as a professional speed drinker. We will not accept submissions from minors.
01:04
Fastest Time To Drink A 6.5-Ounce Yoo-Hoo
Michael James
Michael James drank a 6.5-ounce carton of Yoo-hoo in 21.63 seconds.
NOTE: Speed drinking can be dangerous. Please use caution when making an attempt.
< prev
1
|
2
|
3
next >
Sign up for RecordSetter
Sign up
Your name:
Your e-mail address:
Choose a password:
I am 14 or older
By clicking "create account", you agree that you've read and understand the
Terms of Use
Already a member?
×
Loading data...
×
About RecordSetter
Set a Record!
Submit
Contact
FAQ
Store
Legal
©RecordSetter. All Rights Reserved. 2015.