Screwie Louies South Beach Bar and Grille | Confessions Of A Tampa Foodie
Recipes, Reviews, and All Things Food
Confessions Of A Tampa Foodie
Home Dee E-Mail Me
Browsing:
»
Home
» dinner » Screwie Louies South Beach Bar and Grille
Leave a comment
Screwie Louies South Beach Bar and Grille
Posted
by
deelite984
on
October 5, 2010
in
dinner ,
Florida ,
good restaurants ,
Madeira Beach ,
meal ,
meals ,
restaurant guide ,
restaurant menu ,
Restaurant Reviews
14705 Gulf Blvd
Madeira Beach,FL 33708
This past Sunday morning Foodie woke up a little hung over after a shot filled Saturday night beach weekend. My friend suggested a place for breakfast but when we got there it was jammed with people and a 30-40 minute wait, so I decided to try something else. I cruised up Gulf Blvd. and spotted people sitting and chatting on a deck by a sign that said this place was voted best on the beach. So I popped a U ie and pulled into the tiny
parking lot . They need to do something about that lot because its and accident just waiting to happen and it’s not nearly large enough to handle the amount of people who come here. However,there was no wait although the Louie’s was just about full.
Oh, before I forget, this place is cash only. They say there is a
sign posted
but I didn’t see it. They do have an
ATM
on property but had I seen the sign I probably wouldn’t have gone. I rarely carry cash.  So we walk in,seated ourselves and were promptly given menus by the hostess.  Our waitress was not far behind.  Another word to the wise. These waitress have character, they are helpful but playful and a little flip.  Example, a guy in my party asked our waitress if they served
wine
spritzers, she gave him a look as if he had just stepped off a float from a
gay
parade before saying she didn’t know. We thought it was hysterical but like I said, if you’re looking for the respectful, mousey, blend into the background place, this may not be for you.
So yes, on a Sunday morning before noon you can get all the
Bloody Mary ‘s or any other
alcoholic beverage
you like at Screwie Louie’s.  The dollar menu includes pancakes, sausage,bacon
grits
muffins and of course eggs.  Me and spritzer boy built our breakfast around that and everyone else had omelettes, with bacon
potatoes
and toast. The food was tasty, the portions generous, and nothing was more than $5.99.  Drinks and breakfast for 4 came up to $40.00.  The lunch menu was a
seafood
festival with most things in the 10.00-15.00 range.
The atmosphere was nice, the place was pet friendly and we sat there eating and drinking for a couple of hours. I love this place. So if you do a road trip and are in the area definitely stop by Screwie Louies and get your grub on.
Happy eating.
Share this: Email Facebook Twitter More Reddit Print LinkedIn Google Like this: Like
Loading...
Related
Tags:
Bloody Mary (cocktail) ,
cooking ,
food ,
Home ,
Potato ,
Recreation ,
Seafood ,
Wine
Permalink
Post navigation
←
I’m Back!
Foodie and the grill
→
Leave a Reply
Cancel reply
Enter your comment here...
Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:
Email
(required)
(Address never made public)
Name
(required)
Website
You are commenting using your WordPress.com account.
(  Log Out  /  Change  )
You are commenting using your Twitter account.
(  Log Out  /  Change  )
You are commenting using your Facebook account.
(  Log Out  /  Change  )
You are commenting using your Google+ account.
(  Log Out  /  Change  )
Cancel
Connecting to %s
Notify me of new comments via email.
Notify me of new posts via email.
">
Create a free website or blog at WordPress.com .
|
The Nuntius Theme .
Follow
Follow “Confessions Of A Tampa Foodie”
Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.
Build a website with WordPress.com
Send to Email Address
Your Name
Your Email Address
Cancel
Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
%d
bloggers like this: