Winter Tomatoes | BitterSweet
Menu
Portfolio
Cookbook Errata
FAQ
Craft Patterns
Recipe Index
Advertise
BitterSweet
An Obsession with All Things Handmade and Home-Cooked
Winter Tomatoes
January 30, 2012
by
Hannah (BitterSweet)
16 Comments
Considering how much I already enjoy rambling on about the weather, past, present, and future, I can only imagine what a hoot I’ll be by the time I’m 80 and mostly senile. Every conversation will begin and end with the forecast, as reliably timed as the news stations themselves. Who knows, maybe I just inadvertently stumbled upon a whole new gig for when I retire.
Regardless, it seems that everyone is gossiping about the atmospheric conditions lately. 50-degree days in late January, immediately followed by sleet, later to be washed away for another sunny afternoon? It’s the best sort of madness, removing the fangs from a brutal winter season while keeping things exciting. Scores of sunny days in a row make it seem like spring is just around the corner, and I can’t help but feel optimistic that we put the worst behind us way back in
October . Unfortunately, the growing season is now lagging far behind my cravings for fresh produce.
Glistening red orbs of heirloom tomatoes taunt from pristine display towers, looking every bit as viable as the misshapen turnips and beets just down the aisle. Winter tomatoes, which sounds like the butt of a joke, tempt me like never before, and with the warmth of an unseasonably bright sun on my side, I can’t resist this time.
Condensing those savory fruits into a pure and fresh elixir seemed like the best approach, and nothing says “refreshing” quite like home-pressed juice. Inspired by the classic
Bloody Mary , this virgin drink is not nearly so gruesome, and so much lighter and brighter than the original.
Bloodless Mary
4 Large, Ripe Tomatoes
1 Ounce Fresh Parsley
1 Very Small Clove Garlic (Optional)
2 Stalks Celery
1 Medium Cucumber or 4 – 6 Big Leaves Romaine
1/4 Lemon, Seeded
1/2 Inch Fresh Ginger
1 Teaspoon
Coconut Aminos
or
Braggs Liquid Aminos
1/4 Teaspoon Cayenne Pepper
Freshly Ground Black Pepper, to Taste
If you have a juicer, simply run all of the veggies through skim off the foam. Stir in both aminos and pepper.
For those working with a blender, toss everything in, except for the lemon. Squeeze the juice from it first before discarding the rind. Turn it on high speed and process until completely smooth. Pass the liquid through a fine mesh strainer or
nut milk bag
and discard the solids.
Garnish with lemon slices, celery stalks, cucumber spears, or any sort of pickled veggies. Drink up!
For a
Full-Blooded
version, simply add 2 teaspoons light agave nectar and 1/4 cup (2 ounces) vodka.
Makes 2 Servings
Printable Recipe
Share this: Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window) Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window) Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window) Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window) Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window) Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Like this: Like
Loading...
Related
Categories:
Baking / Cooking ,
Food
| Tags:
alcohol ,
drinks ,
juice ,
recipe ,
tomatoes ,
vegan
|
Permalink .
Author:
Hannah (BitterSweet)
Author of My Sweet Vegan, Vegan Desserts, Vegan a la Mode, and Easy as Vegan Pie.
16 thoughts on “ Winter Tomatoes ”
Leave a comment
Shannon
January 30, 2012 at 8:54 am
I have felt the same way about produce. I have been on a blood orange kick because they seem to be the only fresh produce around.
Reply
Löu
January 30, 2012 at 8:59 am
You are lucky to find some tomatoes, I am craving for a nice tomato soup (and I may end at the frozen department in my store though …). We have tomatoes in France too, but they mostly come from Spain and I am not really willing to buy some, even more so that they are not organic.
Anyway, this is a very tempting recipe !
Reply
Susan L. Friedman
January 30, 2012 at 11:15 am
This sounds really excellent and I’ll be sure to try.
Just a heads up–some of us who read your blog may not be too far from 80 and still going strong!
The image of “mostly senile” is an outdated one that needs to go bye-bye.
Many of us work well into our 70’s and beyond and even do our own gardening and juicing etc.!
Reply
Hannah (BitterSweet)
January 30, 2012 at 11:20 am
That is totally inspiring, and encouraging! I only meant that considering how crazy I already am at this age, I can’t imagine still having all my wits about me in another couple of decades. ;)
Reply
Susan L. Friedman
January 30, 2012 at 11:38 am
Imagine it!
Bam's Kitchen
January 30, 2012 at 11:19 am
Hello there little weather lady…. The addition of Ginger sounds delicious.
Reply
Gustia
January 30, 2012 at 11:31 am
I think this is brilliant.
Such a clever way to get your daily vitamin C and your veggies at the same time. The fabulous Marmande tomatoes from Sicily are in the markets here now so they’re going into my juicer tomorrow.
Reply
veggiegrettie
January 30, 2012 at 11:39 am
I have never tried a bloody mary (I have always been scared away by how yucky V8 is), but this sounds so fresh that I think I will give it a whirl.
Reply
Jes
January 30, 2012 at 2:14 pm
I have to admit, I prefer mine “bloody” :) but your version does look light & delicious!
Reply
JoLynn-dreaminitvegan
January 30, 2012 at 3:01 pm
Now I’m craving tomatoe juice.
As I walked into the produce dept. of the market yesterday there was a table with a sign saying “heirloom tomatoes”. I had to do a double take because it’s not very common to see that during the winter…as you mentioned.
Some of these tomatoes were the size of a small melon…crazy!
Reply
Joanne
January 30, 2012 at 9:25 pm
So I’m always talking about the weather…but usually in terms of produce. And running conditions.
So not boring.
Or geriatric. :P
Bloody marys are actually one of my favorite mixed drinks. I love that salty spicy thang they’ve got going on.
These sound awesome!
Reply
Hannah
January 31, 2012 at 4:10 am
This reminds me of how, as a kid, I used to feel so grown-up and clever for ordering tomato juice when out instead of orange juice or soft drink. And yet I’ve never made anything like this! Technically (stupid rain) it’s summer here, so yay!
Reply
pure2rawtwins
January 31, 2012 at 7:35 am
nice! so making this recipe this weekend!!
Reply
Faith
January 31, 2012 at 9:28 am
Hi Hannah, I just got back from vacation and am catching up on my blog reading…I missed reading about your stories and lovely creations.
We really are on the same wavelength — just yesterday I made a virgin bloody mary smoothie!
I’ll have to try your version with ginger, it sounds fantastic!
Reply
Juliana
January 31, 2012 at 1:34 pm
Oh Hannah, I will definitely try this on the juicer…looks great and refreshing!
Have a great week :)
Reply
Kiran @ KiranTarun.com
January 31, 2012 at 5:02 pm
I’ve been loving blood orange and grapefruits now. Bloody Mary’s sure sounds appropriate for unpredictable weather days ;)
Reply
Leave a Reply
Cancel reply
Enter your comment here...
Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:
Email
(required)
(Address never made public)
Name
(required)
Website
You are commenting using your WordPress.com account.
(  Log Out  /  Change  )
You are commenting using your Twitter account.
(  Log Out  /  Change  )
You are commenting using your Facebook account.
(  Log Out  /  Change  )
You are commenting using your Google+ account.
(  Log Out  /  Change  )
Cancel
Connecting to %s
Notify me of new comments via email.
Notify me of new posts via email.
Post navigation
← Previous Post
Next Post →
Support the Blog, Buy a Book!
Search for:
Subscribe via RSS
Email Subscription
Enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Join 11,661 other followers
Sponsors:
Muck Boots
UK Models
Craft Resources
Craftster
Crochet Pattern Central
Knitting Pattern Central
Knitty
The Daily Knitter
Food Resources
Besty
Everyday Dish
Go Dairy Free
ifood.tv
The Post Punk Kitchen
Veg Gourmet
Veg Kitchen
Vegan.Com
VeganBaking.Net
VegNews
VegWeb
Flickr Photos
More Photos
Create a free website or blog at WordPress.com .
|
The Yoko Theme .
Top
Follow
Follow “BitterSweet”
Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.
Join 11,661 other followers
Build a website with WordPress.com
Send to Email Address
Your Name
Your Email Address
Cancel
Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
%d
bloggers like this: