Tarkan Deluxe: December 2006
Tarkan Deluxe
Musicians & Muse Sessions & Confessions
For our archives on
Turkish
music
artist
Tarkan
at Tarkan Deluxe
click here .
Home
About
Blog
Comments
Tarkan
Archives
Search
Manifesto
Translations
Prose & Poetry
Letters to B
Musings
Words
Culture & Music
Other Works
Copyright
Official Site
Q & A
Biography
Discography
Concert Reports
Magazine Reports
Articles
News Reports
News Videos
Pictures
Pick of the Day
Links
Sunday, December 31, 2006
A Year of Healing
It is customary at this time of year to look forward with some retrospection - that is to look towards the new year while looking back at the old.
Our wishes for the new year will sometimes be dictated by those previous highlights of the old, and - looking back at the
news headlines of 2006
- maybe it is pertinent to hope that this year will be a year of healing.
Let us hope that strife is lessened and that
the trek to respect
begins in 2007 - with ourselves, each other and the world in which we live.
I also want to thank all those - almost three hundred in total - who sent me seasonal messages or cards this year. Even though I do not personally send such greetings, I am still amazed that this blog, now in its third year, still gets the response it does.
I have accepted these warm wishes with a full heart. On behalf of
the other writers and friends
that have contributed to Tarkan Deluxe, I thank you.
The best present I can give to you is this blog.
The best present you can give to me is to do your utmost to try and lead long and healthy lives - full of the joy that we can find in even
the smallest things , as long as we take the time to look.
See you all in 2007.
Want to read more about
what I have to say ?
posted by Tarkan Deluxe at
1:11 p.m.
20 Things in 2006
Twenty things some of us didn't know this time last year:
A giant transparent tent
that will contain an indoor city will be built in Astana by Turkish development company Sembol.
Women from UK
prefer Istanbul
to get pregnant.
Disillusioned Japanese tourists to France's capital get afflicted with
the Paris syndrome .
The
age limit for marriage in France
was, until recently, 15 for girls, but 18 for boys. The age for girls was raised to 18 in 2006.
In Bhutan government policy is based on
Gross National Happiness ; thus most street advertising is banned, as are tobacco and plastic bags.
US President George Bush's personal
highlight of his presidency
is catching a 7.5lb (3.4kg) perch.
The lion costume in the film Wizard of Oz
was made from real lions.
A domestic cat
can frighten a black bear
to climb a tree.
Humans were
first infected with the HIV virus
in the 1930s.
Goths , those pasty-faced teenagers who revel in black clothing, are likely to become doctors, lawyers and architects.
The clitoris
derives its name from the ancient Greek word kleitoris, meaning "little hill".
Eating a packet of crisps
a day is equivalent to drinking five litres of cooking oil a year.
Panspermia
is the idea that life on Earth originated on another planet.
The Pope's been known to wear
red Prada shoes .
Music can help
reduce chronic pain by more than 20% and can alleviate depression by up to 25%.
Five billion apples
are eaten a year in the UK.
Coco Chanel started the
trend for sun tans
in 1923 when she got accidentally burnt on a cruise.
Hexakosioihexekontahexaphobiacs is the term for people who
fear the number 666 .
Thinking about your muscles
can make you stronger.
In answer to the universal question "What came first the chicken or the egg?" the general consensus is the
egg came first .
Read more
news
>>
posted by Tarkan Deluxe at
12:35 p.m.
Thursday, December 28, 2006
Secret of the Tree
Groves were God's first temples,
so well knows the sturdy tree,
but does not boast;
it silently sinks roots
deeply into the earth,
simply absorbing God
by accepting the rain
and reaching out to the sun
that flows towards it,
it uses what comes its way
to nurture itself;
a time-perfected creation,
a knot of roots, deep and strong
planted in an establishment
of seasons, dependent
on earth and air and sun,
on rain and dew,
it uses its given due,
to fill the world with
fruit and flower and God,
rooted in earth yet
it touches the sky -
this is the secret
of the tree
that we cut down,
so we can boast out
our secrets on paper,
and
decorate our festivities .
Read more of
my poems
>>
posted by Tarkan Deluxe at
6:08 p.m.
Sunday, December 24, 2006
Light Up
"Formosa Musings" by Lillian, writing from Tokyo, Japan
May all of you have a brightly shining X'mas and coming year!!
Other guest contributions
>>
posted by Lillian at
11:05 p.m.
Saturday, December 23, 2006
Tarkan Talk
Some feedback from Tarkan fans that I wanted to share:
T
in Texas , USA, writes:
I have read
Mark's article
several times about Tarkan fighting the press. I do have to ask what is the devine Mr T up to. I think he is awesome but maybe he is taking things too far by being so rude to the press. I believe that choosing to be a celebrity brings bad along with the good. In fact no matter what you do in life you are going to meet many people who want to say bad and untrue things about you - been there done that - but being a celebrity you have to multiply that by 10 000.
Me as a fan I am always trying to find out things about him and what he feels or says. By fighting the press I think he is making a very bad mistake, the more he fights them the more they are going to make up or dig up bad things about him. I feel that by being so negative about the press he is also being distant from his fans - us people who both care about him and help pay his wage. No one can survive alone and I do think that celebs no matter how talented they are need publicity. If not how do we know what is going on. I do not think he can survive alone he needs the press to buoy fans along give us info etc.
I know some of it is total rubbish but I think because he will not talk to them they will make things up - find people to gossip spread rumours and all that. I do not think for one minute that the press made Tarkan but I do firmly believe they helped him a great deal.
I, too, agree with the lady "Tarkan please pull yourself together." We love you but if you want to become a recluse give up the singing, the stage shows and wanting to be adored and become a backstage guy, produce, write and organise for other singers. You will be missed but if that is what you want pursue it. I write this as a really loving fan who only want's him to succeed.
I just have to qualify one small point here. The lady who wrote that article was
Rahşan Gülşan , a former aide of Tarkan and someone who had just in the summer of '06 written a
glowing account
of one of his Istanbul concerts at the Harbiye.
Tarkan had complained to her after the account was published because she had printed their conversation without telling him it was "on the record". She had also been promising her editor an exclusive with Tarkan for ages without even consulting him - thinking she could take advantage of their history together - and Tarkan did not play ball after the open air concert review, causing her embarrassment at the workplace I should suspect.
So, to use
her column
as a platform to air her own personal grievances at an old friend to me seems at worst an abuse of position. For the purposes of her piece, furthermore, to use a picture of Tarkan in a hospital mask where he had made an appearance for a good cause concerning children suffering from leukaemia (see left pic) as a "link" to
her Michael Jackson argument
- whose own masking up is for purely personal and idiosyncratic reasons - I thought was somewhat below the waist.
The article
smacked more of "hell hath no fury as a woman scorned" to me.
Arguably, it is useful to keep this background history in mind when reading what Mr Mayhey quoted from her, so we know how much weight to attach to her words.
Plus, what Mr Mayhey fails to mention is the unfairness in the relationship between the celebrity and the media. The press can be as caustic as it can get away with in print and is consequently seen as sharp, but the minute a celebrity tries to reply in kind they are seen as rude. The solution may be that fans should not put such a heavy reliance on celebrity press, and that artists should find other vehicles to carry their image and works.
But as you so rightly point out - for the moment - both need the other to a degree, and instead of an "eye for an eye" fashioned parlance maybe "turning the other cheek" is ultimately the best option for Tarkan.
Read
Mark Mayhey's
article under discussion: " The Celebrity Game " (dated Dec 4) >>
_____________________
Valerie , in Hawaii, USA, writes:
Aloha, Ali and Mahalo (Thank you),
I just wanted to thank you for your website and all the various data re: Tarkan, you've translated.
I accidentally found a Tarkan video, after my 25 year old daughter had told me about
YouTube . Of course, I was watching all the oldies (Dick Dale, Del Shannon, Gene Pitney etc) then remembered that I'd heard some Lebanese music ages ago before my girl was born, when my pal from High School married a Lebanese man. I loved that music, hadn't heard it since, so YouTube provided the perfect opportunity to get reacquainted with it. Someone must have had Tarkan in their playlist because I watched
Gulumse Kaderine
and was forever hooked.
Now I have (from
Amazon ) the
Dudu
CD, with 2 more coming, and about 8 more CDs ordered from
Tulumba.com .
Hopefully, Tarkans career will get huge in America because he is SO talented and I'd love it if he performed in Hawaii so I can go to my first concert in over 15 years... or a concert in California where some of my family lives.
So, thank you, Ali, for listening to this 55 year old who loves Tarkan's music.
No one I've spoken to in Hawaii, California, or Oregon, has ever heard of him. The man over here who has put on concerts since the 60s is Tom Moffatt or Tom Moffatt Productions -- if you ever have occasion to let anyone in Tarkans retinue know. So this
email is to thank you and let you know, this Hawaiian really appreciates the extensive work on you're websites. Have a wonderful Christmas season with your loved ones. My aloha to all of you.
Aloha! In relation to Tarkan and Hawaii -
in a Russian interview
this year he mentions it and he seems he is a big fan of your place as you are of him. Thank you so much for your feedback.
_____________________
Asma , Basel, in Switzerland writes:
Hi Ali
I must thank you for all the lyrics and translations. You've done a really nice job.
I was searching on the internet for song translations to learn Turkish. And it's working really good, with the Tarkan songs.
Thank you!!
_____________________
Shining
from China writes:
Hello Ali!
I was listening to Tarkan's songs and got to your website, really nice job!! I love the notes you have underneath the lyrics..makes so much sense and Turkish is such a beautiful language :)
Thanks!!
Thank you to you, too - and to everyone who emails me with notes of support and thanks. Your goodwill is very much appreciated.
posted by Tarkan Deluxe at
10:27 a.m.
The Farmer
the field lays bare against the sky,
vermillion, scarlet and maroon,
waiting to turn by a whitewashed moon,
showing pinkish on the sandy tops
of furrows, moist hungry earth waits
upturned for the coming seeds,
the farmer wipes a sweaty brow,
breathes in deeply his plough's work,
spring encompassed in dark glory
of freshly cut furrows, bed soaked
smells of newly ploughed earth calling
for fresh things to push up to the air,
seeded with thoughtful labour to kiss
the sunset rim of a red sea horizon,
his hands settle into satisfaction
working in the warm soil where
they were always destined to be,
the farmer, well toiled will reap
what he'll sow so deeply, working
fingers giving life to fertile earth,
feet soaking the soil and sweat,
a farmer of a virile land,
growing a lasting history.
Read more of
my poems
>>
posted by Tarkan Deluxe at
9:30 a.m.
Friday, December 22, 2006
Tarkan Support for Helsinki Bid
By Adelind Osmanlı
reporting
from Munich, Germany
On his way to a London trip with long-time girlfriend Bilge Öztürk, Tarkan has voiced his support for musician friend
Kenan Doğulu 's plans for the Eurovision Song Contest in Helsinki for 2007.
Waiting at Istanbul's Atatürk Airport due to delays caused by
London's fog chaos , Tarkan explained to reporters that he had discussed the issue with pop singer Doğulu.
"Because we're friends we've talked about it. I support him. If he gets a very good result it may be a way to Europe for him. He wants that too. We have to support each other in the music sector.
Sertab
sang in English too. Maybe there could be a mix, English-Turkish. We have some very memorable and beautiful Turkish words."
Kenan Doğulu
is one of the most popular musicians in the last ten years of the Turkish music scene and next year has the opportunity to represent his country at the 52nd Eurovision Song Contest in Finland. He recently made a comeback to the Turkish pop scene with his
Sezen Aksu
signature song " Çakkıdı " from his 2006 album
Festival , becoming an immediate summer hit.
There has been widening criticism by the Turkish media for his insistence on singing in English and for his acceptance to represent the Turkish bid, as the competition is widely regarded as a platform for amateur singers. Sertab Erener - another icon of Turkish pop - won the Eurovision for Turkey in 2003 by singing
a song
with English lyrics.
Baby Joy in 2008?
Turkey's music superstar also took time to sign autographs for fans and take pictures, and expressed that he wanted to start a family. Revealing that this could happen as early as 2008, when asked whether he wanted a boy or a girl, his girlfriend said it didn't matter as long as it was healthy.
Tarkan smiled and said, "One of each."
There has been much speculation in Turkey about the status of Tarkan and his girlfriend, but many believe they will get married if they have children.
Picture courtesy of the
Doğan News Agency .
Tarkan's Taxi Call |
Tarkan News Index
|
Chocolate, Sex and Tarkan
>>
posted by Tarkan Deluxe at
10:04 a.m.
Poems to Last
The Learning Curve
my mind traveled to
that four-letter destination
with the disorientation
of being in a foreign country,
an ever-increasing dizziness,
other's kisses started to feel
like purchased poems - shared
but not completely mine,
only your lips ritually filled me;
beckonings to taste you loudly
taxied the man in me to
lost thoughts of you lingering on
the edge of this learning curve;
a new culture in which I grew
to question all that made me cry;
my remainder a constant reminder
that without you I'm the least part
of a poem of its own; we're greater
objects of our universe when no
particle of our soul sleeps alone.
____________
Original Thought
you resurrected
this heart with a touch,
swept away autumn leaves
falling on the chest
of a living grave,
and showed me
that love holds
no reservation
when it's right,
because it is our right;
you defined that
communicating desire,
not mere appetite,
is the essential human
relation with the world,
and showed me that
angels do not need
heavenly disguises,
a recurring theology
in any anthropology;
no original sin,
only original thought
in a humane philosophy,
your love is the only
religious doctrine
in this human sphere,
the one science taught
for this natural world,
the only currency
I won't exchange,
the centre of my circle,
the definitive cosmology,
fortelling a time
to talk, dance, laugh
and not for letting go.
____________
A Poem to Last
you are a poem to last,
I'll never write
a better one;
you'll always be
my
poem to the last.
Read more of
my poems
>>
posted by Tarkan Deluxe at
8:09 a.m.
Thursday, December 21, 2006
Gifts of Love
Christmas To Me
glittering jitters,
rustle of soft tinsel,
searching for gifts
under evergreen bushes,
falling for you was like
Christmas to me,
a completed wish list,
dreams turned physical,
riding warm
across a skin of snow,
bells a-ringing,
hearts ploughing,
how inclinations
would grow
as the clock struck
midnight to stir
ember expectations
in a glowing hearth,
you'd
tie me up
with multicoloured ribbons,
as I unwrapped you,
a royal yuletide feast;
loving you was like
Christmas to me.
____________
Four Things of Beauty
When I was a boy,
back then in a
new garden,
I saw the first
beautiful thing
I would ever see.
A blushing rose
opening upon
the stem,
velvet edges
touched
with spring.
When I was a man,
in the call of
the wild,
I saw the second
beautiful thing
I would ever see.
You in full bud,
ready to open
upon the stem,
velvet edges
yearning to
bloom with spring.
After that I knew
I'd only ever see two
more things of beauty,
you in a wedding
dress and our
child's smiling face.
____________
Everlasting Gift
It's amazing how
even in your absence
you still remain;
to my loneliness
you signed your name,
brewed my thoughts,
distilled to only
the taste of you,
this is your gift
to me, essence
everlasting.
Read more of
my poems
>>
posted by Tarkan Deluxe at
9:13 a.m.
My Grown-up Christmas List [2]
By Alison, writing from Pennsylvania, USA
Part Two
I put up my tree a few weeks ago, during the first weekend of December. I love my tree. Yes, it is artificial; I don't have the room for a real tree. My mother bought it for me when I was in my very first apartment about 10 years ago. She told me it is supposed to be a tree that grows in the Italian Alps. To me, it looks somewhere between a regular Christmas tree...and a
Charlie Brown Tree . My little tree has small metallic balls and white shimmery ornaments hanging on it with the mini white lights. Amazingly enough, I was also able to find a lighted star to put on the top. It is set up in front of one of my living room windows
- which also has the single white candle on the window sill.
I also have a nativity that I put out on display. I searched for the perfect set for years.
My set is from a collection called Willow Tree. What I love about it is that this is one of the very few nativities where Mary is actually holding Jesus. There are no faces on the people or animals in this set, but you can still feel the emotion of it.
While putting up my tree and getting out the nativity and other decorations I am sure I will have Christmas music. I love most Christmas music, but there are a few songs that "it isn't Christmas" until I hear them for the first time. They are:
"Linus and Lucy" by Vince Guaraldi
Otherwise known as the theme from " Peanuts ". Every American child born in the late '60s/early 70s until now recognizes the first few notes of this piano masterpiece by Vince Guaraldi and can remember sitting with their family watching "A Charlie Brown Christmas" and feeling bad for Charlie Brown and his little tree.
"O Come All Ye Faithful" by Elvis Presley
I grew up listening to Elvis at Christmas because my stepfather is a big fan of his. Christmas wouldn't be the same without it.
"Do They Know It's Christmas" by Band Aid
Something about this song takes me back to the 1980s and my teenage years. I loved British pop music at that time and I really loved this song. It really puts the whole world into perspective by reminding us how lucky we are and to remember those who aren't as fortunate.
"Christmas Wrapping" by the Waitresses
I don't have a particular reason why I love this song;I just do. It is quirky and very 1980s.
"Christmastime" by Bryan Adams
I fell in love with this song the very first time I heard it back in the 1980s. It took me 14 years to locate it on CD, but eventually I found it. This is proof that as long as you have patience, some things are worth waiting for.
"O Holy Night" by Josh Groban
There is not much I can say about this song other than it gives me goosebumps when I hear it. I happen to be a big Josh Groban fan, and he does an outstanding job with this song.
All of these traditions, including those I wrote about before: the
Moravian Star , the single candle in the windows, 'Santa with an Attitude',
special holiday meals , among many others, are what makes my Christmas special to me. I am hoping one day to share these traditions with my own family, while creating new ones with them. I encourage everyone who is celebrating the holidays to take some time out and think about your own traditions, while you are celebrating with your loved ones, and enjoy them to the fullest.
Part one
| End of part two
Main
|
Chapter one
|
Chapter two
| Chapter three
posted by Alison at
6:30 a.m.
Wednesday, December 20, 2006
My Grown-up Christmas List
By Alison, writing from Pennsylvania, USA
Part One
My list is not what you think. It is not a list of wants, but rather a list of needs. It contains the things I need personally to have a very merry Christmas.
Christmastime is my favorite time of year. I don't think it is because of one thing. I think it is EVERYTHING - the Christmas shopping, the holiday baking, decorating my Christmas tree, setting up the Nativity, turning on some holiday music and so on. I even think I love it as much as I did when I was a kid, and I don't get nearly as many presents now as I did then. But then again, that is not what Christmas is about now is it?
In the USA, the holiday shopping season begins on
Black Friday
(the Friday after Thanksgiving). As it gets closer and closer to Christmas Day, the shopping malls open earlier, and close later for those last minute shoppers. I have learned over the last few years, to do my shopping right after work. Most of the shoppers (other women) are at home preparing dinner, so I can find a parking space somewhat easily. This makes running in and out of the mall a fairly quick task, as long as I know what I am looking for.
Knowing what I am looking for has become quite the challenge this year. I usually love to shop during the holidays. My goal is to find THE present that each person wants, but not necessarily needs, since someone is bound to get them that. To see a smile of pure happiness on their face when they open their gift is the biggest present I could get. I have accepted the fact that with some members of my family that will never happen, no matter if I bought the thing they wanted most on the face of the earth. The children are also getting harder and harder to buy for. I have eleven children, ages 13 down to 9 months, to buy presents for. The older they get, the more expensive their toys become. Unfortunately, they don't see it that way, so we all do what we can to make the most of our individual budgets. I can't complain that much. My younger cousin has 21 children to buy for between her and her husband's family.
Another favorite tradition of mine is holiday baking. I started this tradition three years ago. I have my mother's old recipes that she has been making for years, but I decided to add a new one to my repertoire each year. Eventually, I will have my own cookie list, with a good balance of old and new traditional recipes. The new cookie for 2006 is the Chocolate Hazelnut Biscotti.
Chocolate Hazelnut Biscotti
(recipe courtesy of Giada DeLaurentiis)
Recipe Summary
Difficulty: Easy
Prep Time: 30 minutes
Cook Time: 12 minutes
Yield: 36 cookies
1 1/3 cups all-purpose flour
1/2 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1/4 teaspoon kosher salt
1/2 cup butter, softened
1/2 cup chocolate hazelnut spread (recommended: Nutella)
1/2 cup sugar
1/2 cup brown sugar
1 egg
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
3/4 cup chopped toasted hazelnuts
Preheat the oven to 375 degrees F.
In a medium bowl combine the flour, baking powder, baking soda, and salt. Set aside.
In another medium bowl combine the butter, chocolate hazelnut spread, sugar, and brown sugar. Using an electric mixer, cream the ingredients together, about 4 minutes. Add the egg and vanilla and beat until smooth, about 1 minute. Using a wooden spoon or rubber spatula, stir in the flour mixture until just combined. Add the hazelnuts and stir until just combined.
Using a tablespoon measure, spoon out the cookie dough onto a cookie sheet, spacing the mounds about 4 inches apart. Use the tines of a fork to flatten the cookie dough. Bake until lightly golden around the edges, about 10 to 12 minutes. Use a metal spatula to transfer the cookies to a wire rack and let cool.
In addition to adding a new cookie each year, I also usually bake one cake for the Christmas Eve festivities. Two years ago, I made a
Chocolate Amaretti Cake , and last year it was the
Dark Chocolate Peppermint Pattie Cake .
This year, I will be making a family recipe as requested by my step-grandmother. The cake was originally only made by her sister. Her sister passed away a few years ago, and I have been the only brave soul to attempt to make it. Why do I say brave? The cake is a Dobos Torte and it has 8 layers. I am hoping that this attempt goes a lot smoother than the first.
End of part one |
Part two
Main
|
Chapter one
|
Chapter two
| Chapter three
posted by Alison at
3:47 p.m.
Tuesday, December 19, 2006
Taxi Call for Tarkan
By Adelind Osmanlı
reporting
from Munich, Germany
French movie star
Samy Naceri , made famous in his role for the
Taxi
movies has been quoted as expressing his desire to star alongside Turkish music superstar Tarkan in the next installment of the action film franchise.
Preparing to come to Istanbul for a film location search next week, Naceri has revealed his wish to see Tarkan star in the upcoming film
Taxi 4 , which is currently in post-production and scheduled to be filmed in the largest city in Europe.
It is not clear whether an actual meeting has been set up. Tarkan recently flew back from Los Angeles to Istanbul to attend the funeral of music mogul Ahmet Ertegun, who died in New York five days ago.
Although unconfirmed, it is reputed that Naceri may share the lead with
Sylvester Stallone
for the fourth in the Taxi series. Tarkan was
recently spotted
at LA's
Garden of Eden
for Stallone's latest
Rocky Balboa
premiere release kick-off bash.
Ertegun's Funeral |
Tarkan News Index
|
Support for Helsinki
>>
posted by Tarkan Deluxe at
6:34 a.m.
Turkish Funeral for Ertegun
By Adelind Osmanlı
reporting
from Munich, Germany
Ahmet Ertegun , who died five days ago in New York aged 83, was buried in Istanbul yesterday.
The main founder of music giant Atlantic Records
died Thursday
after two months in a coma at the New York Presbyterian Hospital-Weill Cornell Medical Center. Ertegun fell on Oct 29 while waiting for the Rolling Stones at former U.S. President Bill Clinton's 60th birthday party at the Beacon Theater in New York. He was backstage when he fell and hit his head, resulting in brain injuries that eventually killed him.
The man who changed the sound of popular American music in a career spanning over 50 years was buried in a star-studded Muslim ceremony near the Bosphorus at the Ertegun family mausoleum. US rock star Kid Rock and Turkish singer Tarkan were among those who
paid tribute on Monday
to Ertegun, who launched the careers of Ray Charles and Led Zeppelin.
Time Warner CEO Lyor Kohen, Jann Wenner founder of the
Rolling Stone
magazine, Dave Reed from US TV channel FOX and many of Turkey's business elite also joined members of Ertegun's family to pay their respects to him at the ceremony yesterday.
"He performed a great service for the Turkish people ... His death leaves a great emptiness," said Foreign Minister Abdullah Gul, who represented the Turkish government at the ceremony.
Tarkan said: "He was both father and elder brother for me. He did a lot for me. He was a great man."
"The one thing he loved more than music was Turkey," the state-run Anatolia news agency quoted Lyor Cohen, chief executive of Warner Music Group, as saying.
Pamela Anderson's ex-husband Kid Rock said: "I have met many people, been to many places and seen many things, but he was definitely the best," according to Anatolia. "He could not sing but he was music personified," the agency quoted the singer as saying.
Wenner from Rolling Stone magazine, also paid tribute to Ertegun, saying: "Ahmet was perhaps the most revered, respected figure in American popular music of the modern era."
Meanwhile, Fox executive Reed used the opportunity to stress that Fox was still very much committed to Turkish TV and to keeping Ertegun's memory alive.
Earlier this week Rolling Stones' band frontman
Mick Jagger had led the tributes
to the music mogul, emphasising that, "He will be fondly remembered by all who knew him and I will personally miss our warm and long friendship."
The Architect of Soul
Atlantic Records, founded in 1947 in New York, has become one of the world's biggest record companies and is now owned by Warner Music Group.
A lover of jazz and blues when they were still unknown to many Americans, Ertegun is credited with helping to pioneer rock 'n' roll by being one of the first music executives to sell music by black artists to white youth in the 1950s.
In his long career, Ertegun worked with the likes of British rock band Rolling Stones and John Coltrane and was also closely associated with the Three Tenors, the superstar combo of Luciano Pavarotti, Placido Domingo and Jose Carreras. American artist
Frank Zappa
even named his son Ahmet after Ertegun.
The suave Turk also wrote the Ray Charles' hit " Mess Around ", under the pseudonym A. Nugetre (Ertegün backwards). Apart from Ray Charles of whom he was quoted as saying "First time I saw Ray I told him, 'You are the fucking end, you know,'" he enlisted Rolling Stones and others. In
Ray , the biopic of Ray Charles, Ertegun is portrayed by
Curtis Armstrong .
His Atlantic lineup also included Aretha Franklin, Led Zeppelin, Otis Redding, Bette Midler, Eric Clapton and Crosby, Stills & Nash, as well as many stars of modern jazz.
In 1971, his brother Nesuhi founded WEA International, now Warner Music International. In 1987, Ertegun was inducted into the Rock & Roll Hall of Fame, of which he himself was the founder. Nesuhi was inducted posthumously four years later. Ertegun was also was awarded the Grammy Trustees Award for his lifetime achievements in 1993. Nesuhi was awarded the same posthumously two years later in 1995.
The bald, goateed bon vivant was designated a "living legend" by the US Library of Congress in 2000.
RJ Eskow from the Huffington Post in regard to Ertegun's legacy
stated that Ertegun was the architect of soul: "His signature on musical history is undeniable, and it is beautiful. Ahmet Ertegun, a stranger in a strange land, found the heartbeat beneath the skin of American music. He nurtured it, amplified it, and sold it to America and the world."
Constantly citing
Mustafa Kemal Atatürk
as his "hero" and holding rare audio archives of his speeches, Ertegun was born in Istanbul on July 31, 1923 - the same year as the Turkish Republic was pronounced - and was educated in Europe and the United States where his father served as Turkish ambassador.
Tarkan's Power Table |
Tarkan News Index
|
Tarkan's Taxi Call
>>
posted by Tarkan Deluxe at
5:34 a.m.
Sunday, December 17, 2006
Tarkan's Power Table
By Adelind Osmanlı
reporting
from Munich, Germany
The "Power Table" at Wolfgang Puck's restaurant du jour
Cut
- at the
Regent Beverly Wilshire Hotel
(one of the film locations for the 1990s film classic
Pretty Woman ) - was studded with Los Angeles' industry heavyweights on Friday, including Diamond-selling artist Tarkan and publicist
Avo Yermagyan
who were joined by Grammy Award winning violin virtuoso Miri Ben-Ari and business partner Josue Sejour.
Also mingling amongst the commotion were Steven Spielberg, Mary J. Blige, Will Smith, and Jada Pinkett Smith, among others.
Tarkan and Ben-Ari
are currently in LA music rooms
Pacifique Studios
recording songs for their upcoming releases.
UPDATE:
Tarkan unveils Ben-Ari song
(2010) >>
In what seems to be a transfer from his base in New York to LA, Turkish music superstar Tarkan has
recently been seen
"doing the rounds" with LA entertainment news reporter
Alicia Jacobs
and Taboo of LA hip-hop group the
Black Eyed Peas , photographed together at the
Garden of Eden
for MGM's
Rocky Balboa
première release kick-off bash (see pics below).
Images courtesy of
WireImage .
Death of a Dream |
Tarkan News Index
|
Ertegun's Funeral
>>
posted by Tarkan Deluxe at
10:15 a.m.
An American Family's Christmas [3]
By Alison, writing from Pennsylvania, USA
Recipes
Oven Baked French Toast
1 12oz French baguette
4 eggs
1 cup half and half (half cream)
3 tablespoons sugar
1 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
1/8 teaspoon ground nutmeg
Preheat the oven to 500 F. Cut bread crosswise into 16 slices. Arrange slices in jellyroll pan - they may overlap. In a bowl, beat the eggs with the half and half, sugar, vanilla, and nutmeg until blended. Pour over the bread, turning the slices occasionally to coat both sides and until the mixture is absorbed. Place the bread on two greased cookie sheets. Bake 8 to 10 minutes on each side or until golden.
May be topped with confectioners' (icing) sugar or maple syrup; depending on your individual preference.
Breakfast Casserole
6 eggs
2 cups milk
1 teaspoon salt
1 tablespoon dry mustard
1 lb of hot or mild sausage*
1 cup shredded cheddar cheese
6 slices of white bread, crusts removed
* My mother also uses thinly sliced sautéed mushrooms in place of the sausage.
Beat eggs, milk, salt, and mustard. Brown sausages (or sauté mushrooms), break up into small pieces; drain. Place bread slices in 13x9" pan. Spread sausage (or mushrooms) over bread. Sprinkle with cheddar cheese. Pour egg over all, sprinkle with extra cheese if desired. Refrigerate covered overnight. Bake at 350 F for 45 to 50 minutes or until egg is set.
For kitchen measurement conversions
click here
Part one
|
Part two
| Recipes
Main
|
Chapter one
| Chapter two |
Chapter three
posted by Alison at
10:10 a.m.
An American Family's Christmas [2]
By Alison, writing from Pennsylvania, USA
Part Two
The food is not the only tradition that my step-father's family has. We also sit in the same seats every year while we are opening our gifts. Why, I am not sure, but we do. My personal spot is in a wing chair with the Christmas tree to my left and a fireplace to my right. The exchanging of gifts has dwindled over time. Years ago, everyone exchanged gifts, and the evening would last into the early hours of Christmas morning because they like to watch each person open their gifts. For the last 10 years, they decided to pick names and we would buy for whomever we picked within an agreed upon spending limit. This year, the adults have agreed not to exchange gifts, but to only buy for my younger step-cousin and their mother. All is not lost however. We usually do get at least one gift. This one is a special one from "Santa". This Santa is different than any Santa I have ever known. I would say he is "Santa with an Attitude". You never quite know what you are going to get. In the beginning, no one in my family knew who it was, but eventually we figured it out. One of my step-uncles goes to great lengths to buy appropriate gag gifts and write cards to each of us with the length depending on how much free time he has. Sometimes the gag is very mild and other times, it is not. I do remember one year very vividly. As I was looking at my gift wrapped up and panicking at its shape, I wondered if he really had the nerve to give what I THOUGHT he was giving me in front of my entire family. The blush on my face was becoming more intense by the second. Thankfully, it was not what I thought it was, and when I approached him later in the dining room about it, he claimed that the thought of what it looked like never entered his mind. My gift last year was very tame...a gingerbread man dressed as a chef.
Christmas Day morning has changed a tiny bit for me over the years. I no longer attend mass with my parents. They go early in the morning and return to their home so they can prepare for everyone later in the morning. I usually arrive at their house around 10:00am. If there is time, we exchange our gifts then, before my grandmother, aunt, cousins and their families arrive. Then, the chaos starts. My mother starts putting the finishing touches on the food; my step-father turns up the music and runs around at the last minute looking for the ingredients to make our traditional Christmas drink, the
Bloody Mary . I usually have table duty, making sure the orange juice has been poured and that the confectioners' (icing) sugar, butter, and maple syrup are on the tables. Before we know it, the rest of the family starts trickling in, family by family. Within a half hour, everyone is there, the kids have started ripping open their gifts all at once and the wrapping paper and bows start flying.
After the bags of wrapping paper have been taken out and the area has been put in some kind of order, the meal begins. It is not an extravagant meal, but rather one that is very child-friendly. My mother has been making it for as long as I can remember. A few years ago, she made the mistake of substituting one of the dishes and I can remember my oldest cousin not being happy. We all really look forward to that meal; because that is the only day of the year we eat it.
Once the kids have been seated at the island in the kitchen and have started eating, it is time for the adults to sit down. The "older crowd" - my parents, aunt, and grandmother, sit in the formal dining room. The younger group - my cousins, their spouses and myself - sit at a table in a room connected to the kitchen so we can keep an eye on the kids. About halfway through our meal, the kids start to get restless and begin playing with any toy they might have received earlier that morning. Once the dishes have been cleared from all the tables, it is time to take a short rest before coffee and Christmas cookies. My mother usually has a nice assortment of different cookies, including those she bakes with my aunt - a tradition they have had every year since I was a small child. Finally, around 1:00pm, it is time to move on. My cousins have their spouses' family to visit, and my aunt and grandmother go to their respective homes, only to all congregate at my aunt's home that evening for their Christmas Dinner. I also have a tradition - one that started when I was a teenager. I help my mother clean up and then take a nice long nap before I head over to my aunt's home a few hours later.
Every family has their traditions. Some of mine I like, some I can do without. Hopefully, one day I will be able to share some of these traditions with my own family. Until then, this is how I will be spending my Christmas every year.
Part one
| End of part two |
Recipes
Main
|
Chapter one
| Chapter two |
Chapter three
posted by Alison at
8:41 a.m.
Friday, December 15, 2006
An American Family's Christmas
By Alison, writing from Pennsylvania, USA
Part One
Christmas season in my family, just like other families, is very busy. I believe our Christmas season begins with our Thanksgiving dinner. It is then, when we start to discuss the two most important topics for the upcoming Christmas holiday: the decision about gift giving and who is making what dishes for our Christmas Eve celebration.
As I was thinking about my family, I realized that we are almost a cross-section of America. I have three families: my mom's side, my dad's side, and my step-father's side. When I look at the group as a whole, I realized how varied we are. The fact that they are three very different families is minor. Within all of the families there are differences in number of young children, religion, political beliefs, economic status, and even nationalities. Each of us brings our own personalities to the table which can make for a very lively holiday.
My mother's side of the family is very small. Both of her parents passed away years ago and all that remains is her twin brother. While my grandparents were still alive, he would spend Christmas with us, but in recent years he has chosen to spend the holiday with good friends closer to where he lives.
My late father's side of the family spends Christmas morning at my parents' home. The only way I can describe it is total chaos. Long gone are the days where my cousins and I were running all over. We have been replaced by ten children, ages 9 months through 13 years - although the attendance of three of them changes each year. After the wrapping paper and bows have settled, we sit down to enjoy our traditional Christmas brunch.
I spend Christmas Eve night with my step-father's side of the family. Compared to the following morning, it is usually a more reserved affair, but not because there is only one 12-year-old boy present. I say this with hesitation, because the men in the family have been known to get into the very lively "annual holiday discussion", usually about things you are not supposed to discuss during the holidays: politics, social problems, and religious differences. Over the years they have calmed a little, but the fire can still be lit at any moment because of their varying personalities. The women have learned to stay out of it and concentrate on the evening's festivities, the gifts, and food.
As Christmas Eve approaches, I started to think about my family's traditions. Last year, one of my step-aunts held the evening's festivities at her house. She wanted to give her elderly mother a break and let her enjoy the holiday without doing too much work. It didn't feel right, and this year's celebration will be held where it has been ever since I have been a member of the family, at my step-grandmother's home. I think my step-aunt's biggest mistake was that she broke with the family's traditions. Ever since I can remember, the evening begins with cold food served buffet-style: shrimp, antipasti, a vegetable tray, deli meats and cheeses for sandwiches, and a Turkish dish made by my uncle - a somewhat recent addition. The cold food is left out all night so people can go back and forth between the living and dining rooms, nibbling on the food as we are opening our gifts. Once that is completed, everyone congregates back into the dining room for my step-great-aunt's stuffed shells and any other hot dish that is being served.
End of part one |
Part two
|
Recipes
Main
|
Chapter one
| Chapter two |
Chapter three
posted by Alison at
1:17 p.m.
Death of a Dream
Analysis by Mark Mayhey
reporting
from London, UK
Mr Ahmet Ertegun , the Turkish man that helped shape American popular music was officially
pronounced dead
yesterday, aged 83.
He suffered a head injury when he fell at a Rolling Stones concert at New York's Beacon Theatre in October, and died after slipping into a coma.
The son of a Turkish ambassador to the US, who, although born in Turkey, grew up in Washington DC, will be buried in his native home.
A memorial
service will be held in New York in the New Year, an Atlantic Records spokesman said.
The Turkish Warriors of Jazz
It was one of the curious facts in the history of modern popular music, that rhythm and blues and jazz - the sound of poor black urban America - were given a mass market by two middle-class immigrants from Turkey.
Mr Ertegun founded Atlantic Records in 1947, and his brother Nesuhi joined him later as vice-president of the company.
Along with his partner Herb Abramson, a native New Yorker, Mr Ertegun developed Atlantic into a powerhouse of rhythm and blues, jazz, soul and rock. A recording history icon, he helped make Ray Charles and Aretha Franklin stars and signed the Rolling Stones in the early 70s.
The Atlantic label first made its name with rhythm and blues, but later diversified, making Franklin the Queen of Soul as well as carrying the banner of British rock with the Rolling Stones and Led Zeppelin and American pop with Bing Crosby, Sonny and Cher, and others.
Rolling Stones star Mick Jagger was the first of many to pay
tribute to the music mogul
by saying, "He was a marvellous man, very witty, a great raconteur."
"He will be fondly remembered by all who knew him...I will personally miss our warm and long friendship."
The man who called
Mustafa Kemal Atatürk
his "hero" remained at the helm of Atlantic Records even after the company was merged with Elektra and the Warner Music Group Corp and in 1995, the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame museum announced that its main exhibition hall would be named after him.
The Death of a Dream
Mr Ertegun's untimely death will come as a large blow to Turkish music superstar
Tarkan , who had been aiming to change popular music's landscape with his own brand of music.
The late music producer had reputedly been grooming Tarkan for an American music career ever since the mid-1990s, which had led to the disillusionment of
Tarkan's American dream .
Now with Mr Ertegun dead it seems that the Turkish superstar's American Dream has been buried with him for good.
Pictures courtesy of
BBC News online .
The views in this article are those of the author alone.
Read more
Mark Mayhey articles on Tarkan
>>
The Celebrity Game |
Tarkan News Index
|
Tarkan's Power Table
>>
posted by Tarkan Deluxe at
6:29 a.m.
Thursday, December 14, 2006
Turks and Islam
Part One
"You can divide the East and West in terms of their gardens. In the West, they are in the houses looking out at their gardens, while in the East they tend to be in their gardens looking towards the homes. Turks with that nomadic spirit, on the other hand, see the whole world as their garden - whether you want them in your garden or not."
Ali Yildirim ( Read more quotes )
The story of the
Turks
is one of migration by a
warrior people on horseback
from China eventually to the Balkans and although
Islam
is the religion of the majority of Turks, its importance came relatively late. The original
Turcoman
or Turkic tribes were nomads who originated in Asia; in over a thousand years of their recent history they moved to Iran, to eastern Anatolia and to western Anatolia, freely becoming Muslims on the way.
After colonising Persia and Anatolia, they set their sights on the Holy Roman Empire and five hundred years later the Turkish
Ottoman Empire
stood poised to crush Europe on behalf of Islam.
Even before
Sultan Mehmed II [ 1 ]
took
Constantinople in 1453, the Ottoman rulers had established themselves as the world's leading Islamic power. They seized Egypt and Syria, pushed into Hungary and Transylvania, and to the gates of Vienna. Mehmed's descendant
Suleiman the Magnificent [ 2 ]
drove
the Christian warrior Knights of St. John out of Rhodes and then, in 1565, chased these last Crusaders to Malta. From the far side of Europe,
Elizabeth I
of England declared that in the siege of Malta the survival of Christian Europe was at stake from the Turks.
Origin of the Turks: Nomads from Central Asia
Although Turkic nomads have been around in Central Asia since the 5th century BC, it is thought that the first state known as "Turk", giving its name to the many states and peoples afterwards, was that of the
Gökturk Empire
or
Kök-turk
(gök meaning "blue" or "celestial", kök meaning "root") in the 6th century
AD [ 3 ] .
The main Turkic peoples that followed include the
Karluks
(or Qarluqs - mainly 8th century),
Uyghurs
and
Oghuz Turks .
Before the vast majority joined known world religions, their ancient belief was Shamanistic in nature and known as
Tengrism . It was surprisingly advanced and sophisticated, in essence
monotheistic , with a strong code of laws known as
Yasa [ 4 ] ,
about
society and crime and tough against
adultery [ 5 ] . It nurtured a moral society that encouraged respect for the family unit. This was one of the factors that scholars suggest most Turkic populations on the whole converted freely to Islam, as the religion didn't really conflict with their beliefs, lifestyle or culture.
First Contact with Islam
Before the majority of Turkic tribes began to adopt Islam, the Karluks had already accepted Christian missionaries, whilst a Turkic tribe known as the
Khazars
had already converted
to
Judaism [ 6 ] .
The first serious contact between Turkic peoples and Islam was in the 8th century AD, when an Arab-Islamic army allied with Christian Karluk mercenaries against the Chinese in the Battle of Talas, and won.
It is suggested that conversion began at this point, but it was gradual. The Karluk Turks, for example, remained in the Christian faith until the 14th century. Some academics believe that Turks may have converted to Islam, because to them it had once signified military success.
The first important Turkish conversion to Islam was reputedly to come from a soldier out of the Khazar ranks. Originally from the Oghuz tribe, a warrior Turk named Seljuk converted to Islam in the 10th century and founded the first important Turkish Islamic Empire, a loose confederation of kingdoms known as the
Seljuk Dynastic Empire .
The top picture is called " Khusrau Hunting ", dated 1498 AD. Page from a manuscript of the Khusrau and Shirin by Hatifi, Turkey (probably Istanbul), Ottoman period.
The Art of the Ottomans before 1600 AD
(Metropolitan Museum of Art)
End of part one |
Part two
Main Index
| Intro |
Chapter 1
|
Chapter 2
|
Chapter 3
|
Chapter 4
|
Chapter 5
____________________
Footnotes
1 . It is also claimed that the prophet of Islam, Mohammad, mentioned the prospective conquest of Constantinople (now Istanbul) with the quote "They will conquer Kostantinaya (Constantinople). Hail to the prince and the army to whom that good fortune will be given."
Babinger, Franz
(1978).
Mehmed the Conqueror and his Time . Princeton University Press, 85. ISBN 0-691-01078-1.
Go back
2 . The Sultan was named after Solomon, who was described as the perfect ruler in the Islamic holy book, the Koran. Like the legendary king of the Jews, Suleiman was seen as just and wise, and a worthy follower of his namesake. He is therefore called the second Solomon by many Islamic scholars, although he was the first of that name among the Ottomans. Like the Solomon of old, this ruler was surrounded by splendour and mystery, and his time is remembered as the zenith of his people - "magnificent to the west and the lawgiver to the east".
Everything2.com / "Not In My Name" Part 1
(Religious Tolerance by Richard Dixon)
Go back
3 . Some suggest the name Gökturk indicates that these Turks saw themselves as the children of their celestial god
Tengri
(the derivative of the modern Turkish generic word for "god"
Tanrı ) - the father of the sky.
Go back
4 . The "Yasa" code of laws was never abandoned by the Turks in name. Today in Turkey, laws are called "yasa".
Go back
5 . The 10th century Muslim writer
Ibn Fadlan 's accounts of travelling through Oghuz Turk territory gives a vivid explanation of the Turkish view of adultery. As the guest of a powerful Turk in the region, by accident he sees the ruler's wife naked as she is changing clothes. It is written that Ibn Fadlan immediately looks to the floor, but the Turkish ruler laughs and says, "Don't worry, just don't touch". Fadlan is very suprised and shocked by this. The next day on a visit to another area, Fadlan describes witnessing a man with his left arm and leg tied to a tree on his left and his right arm and leg tied to a tree on the right, upon which they cut the two trees and split the man in half. Fadlan asks the reason for the punishment and the response is adultery.
Go back
6 . Also see
Khazaria.com , a Resource for Turkic and Jewish History in Russia and Ukraine.
Go back
posted by Tarkan Deluxe at
5:57 a.m.
Sunday, December 10, 2006
Christmas in Bethlehem
"Life Recipes" by Alison, writing from Pennsylvania, USA
Ever since I was a child, Christmas has always been a very special time for me. Like every other child, I remember laying in bed on Christmas Eve night, thinking that I heard hoof prints on the roof as I was attempting to fall asleep. As an adult I am no longer waiting for
Santa , but am looking forward to the day that I can share my Christmas traditions with my little ones. Some of the traditions that I have held on to originated from my family, others came from my hometown of Bethlehem in Pennsylvania, USA - while some traditions I developed myself.
As Christmastime nears, I've decided to share some of those traditions here and give a taste of how I spend Christmas in another Bethlehem.
Chapter One:
O Little Town of Bethlehem
Chapter Two:
An American Family's Christmas
Chapter Three:
My Grown-up Christmas List
Other guest contributions
>>
posted by Alison at
6:23 p.m.
Saturday, December 09, 2006
O Little Town of Bethlehem
By Alison, writing from Pennsylvania, USA
Ever since I was a child, Christmastime has always been very special to me. I remember laying in bed on Christmas Eve night, thinking that I heard hoof prints on the roof as I was attempting to fall asleep. Like every other child, I was up very early the next morning, peeking under the tree, only to patiently wait to see what Santa had brought as my family attended mass. Since moving out of my parents' home a little over 11 years ago, things have changed. I am no longer waiting for Santa, but am looking forward to the day that I can play the part for my little ones. Also, I have kept some traditions while developing my own. Some of the traditions that I have held on to originated from my family, while others came from my hometown.
I grew up in Bethlehem, Pennsylvania - a city in Eastern Pennsylvania of roughly 72,000 people. It was founded on Christmas Eve in 1741 by a small group of Moravians lead by Count Nicolaus Ludwig Zinzendorf of Saxony, Germany. Being a religious community, they named the settlement after the town of Bethlehem in Judea, where Jesus was born. To Bethlehem, they brought many traditions from the old country, many that still exist today.
It has been argued that the Moravians were the first people to introduce the
Christmas tree
to America in the very early 1800s. The arrival of German immigrants helped spread the tradition of the Christmas tree across the country. The women would bake elaborate ornaments for their tree and then the family would eat the decorations once the tree was taken down after the holidays. Lighted candles, flowers, fruits, and nuts were also popular decorations for the first American Christmas trees, but only the strongest trees could support the weight without drooping. As a result, early American glassblowers began making lightweight glass ball to replace the heavier decorations. The lights and decorations were representations of the joy and light of the Christmas season, while the star on top of the tree is symbolic of the 'Star in the East'.
Another tradition that has started in this area with the Moravian community is the display of a single white candle in the windows. Originally, it was to "light the way for the Christ Child". Since then, it has turned into a sign of welcome and many homes in Historical Downtown Bethlehem display the candles all year long.
In addition to the single white candle in the windows, another very popular tradition in Bethlehem is the display of the
Moravian star . Traditionally, the star is hung during the first Sunday of Advent. The 26-point star originated at the Moravian School in Niesky, Germany during the mid 1850s as a lesson in geography, and was carried all over the world by missionaries and other church workers. Today, we mostly see a star made from white plastic or clear glass (sometimes electrified, sometimes not), but the first stars created were made of wood and had alternating white and red points, among a few other color combinations. There is also another star, 'The Star of Bethlehem', which has a longer point on the bottom. The Moravian Star is not only displayed in churches and homes, but also in community displays, hospitals, hotels, schools, stores, and other places Christmas decorations are displayed. Today, more non-Moravians are displaying the star at Christmas than are the Moravians themselves. Many of the city's inhabitants have the stars hanging in their doorways throughout the year and give them to visitors or while traveling as a symbol of our hometown.
In 1937, Vernon Melhado, head of the Chamber of Commerce had an idea. He thought, "Why not make Bethlehem - named at Christmas - the Christmas City for the entire country. Bethlehem did not create Christmas, but Christmas created Bethlehem." He launched a full-scale effort and contacted Chambers of Commerce all over the country to help promote Bethlehem, PA as 'Christmas City, USA', getting very positive feedback in return.
Since then, Bethlehem has pulled out all the stops for her locals and visitors to celebrate the holiday season. There is a little something for everyone. Children can enjoy the live Christmas pageant - complete with a donkey, camels, horses, and sheep - and various stage performances including
The Nutcracker
ballet and Charles Dicken's
A Christmas Carol . For adults, there are numerous festivities around town -
Christkindlmarkt
(modeled after a German open-air market held during the Christmas season), holiday concerts given by the
Bach Choir
(formed in 1898), among many other events to give them a break from the holiday shopping. One fun family activity that is becoming popular are the old fashioned horse and carriage rides through Historic Bethlehem.
The Christmas season for me is very personal. It really is what you make of it. It can be as hectic or relaxing as you want it. I like to get out my Christmas tree and decorate it while listening to Christmas music, put the single white candles in my windows, and take in a holiday festivity or two if I have the time. One day I may even get to hang my glass Star of Bethlehem in my home. I think that traditions are very important during the holidays, since they are what give you that warm feeling of 'home' no matter where you live.
Main
| Chapter one |
Chapter two
|
Chapter three
posted by Alison at
6:31 a.m.
Twenty Things
Twenty snippets harvested from the week's news, chopped diced and sliced for easy consumption. Eat up, knowledge is good for you.
British Prime Minister Tony Blair has called for an immediate ceasefire and political resolution to the conflict in
Sudan's Darfur region .
BBC
Europe editor Mark Mardell meets the
isolated Turkish Cypriot community
and asks what it feels like in the spotlight.
Despite
last minute offers , Turkey's troubled EU bid has deadlocked
once again .
The recent
murder of a Russian spy
in England seems like something out of a
James Bond movie .
Greece's education ministry has
banned children from using mobile phones
while at school.
DNA tests on blood samples
appear to prove the driver of Princess Diana's car was drunk on the night of her fatal accident.
A German-born artist has become the
first woman painter to win
the £25,000 Turner Prize since it was founded 22 years ago.
A boy whose head was effectively severed from his neck in a racing car crash has made
a miraculous recovery .
Archaeologists have unearthed what they believe to be
St Paul's grave
in Rome.
Women in the UK are drinking alcohol more, and
getting violent
with it.
The London tornado
was one of 40 to hit the UK this year.
Hearing voices in your head
is so common that it is normal, psychologists believe.
It's only 62 years since the last person was
prosecuted for witchcraft
in the UK.
Urban birds
have developed a short, fast "rap style" of singing, different from their rural counterparts.
Children's artist Quentin Blake has turned his hand to
painting for the elderly .
Stripping is, officially, an art form ( in Norway at least ).
Madonna has been criticised
by an animal rights group for wearing what it said was a real chinchilla fur coat.
Fifteen thousand young music fans
attended the recent SOS Music Festival held in Cairo.
A Hindu God king
pays tax
for first time.
Standard-sized condoms
are too big
for most Indian men.
Turkey and the EU
|
The
Cyprus issue
|
News
>>
posted by Tarkan Deluxe at
6:02 a.m.
Monday, December 04, 2006
The Celebrity Game
Editorial by Mark Mayhey
reporting
from London, UK
I recently posed the suggestion to a colleague in Istanbul that using Tarkan's music as the entry point for a cultural analysis of Turkey would be an interesting way to articulate the make-up and values of the society that created him.
I was told in no uncertain terms that Turkey did not create Tarkan, they - the Turkish media - had created him and that if
Tarkan continued to "bite the hand"
that fed it, the media would "end" his career in Turkey.
It got me to thinking - can the media make or break a pop star's career? And do only those who zero in on doing the best job of manipulating the media with their celebrity clout manage to survive?
Playing to win
Being a pop star with celebrity in any country means friction with the tabloids. Britney Spears and Michael Jackson are prime examples - or easy targets - for the celebrity press.
There has to be an understanding of the three-way relationship that supports celebrity. The public may hanker after celebrity, and the celebrities themselves promote it, but it is the media that manages it. And celebrity can and must be cultivated and nurtured, as David Beckham and his wife have so ably shown.
With contemporary Western culture making recent in-roads in Turkey with the appearance of a
Turkish version of MTV
and Turkish editions of
Rolling Stone ,
Billboard
and
Empire
magazines, the mathematics of celebrity is going to start adding up Turkey.
This celebrity game has to be played well, otherwise as my colleague suggested, it will result in lost, misguided or simply desperate celebs, hungry for the spotlight.
Now, in an ironic twist - using the same media he criticised - Tarkan
in a recent interview
for a Turkish newspaper attacked his domestic celebrity press, signalling that he was going to cut out the media "middle man" from this three-way relationship.
Tarkan vs Turkish Press
Tarkan's
battles with his home tabloids
are nothing new. Ever since he appeared on the Turkish music scene in 1992, bare chested and brassy, the pop star has directly and indirectly irritated the traditional moralistic stance of the media.
When to the chagrin of his critics Tarkan would not go away and
- even worse - became more successful than anyone could have ever imagined, for the sake of revenue the belly-dancing pin-up boy and the press became uncomfortable bedfellows.
Searching for friends from the media, Tarkan has since then polarised the journalists as much as he has polarised his Turkish homestead about how he should be perceived.
But after the release of his
2006 English album , media criticism and
run-ins with the media
- with Tarkan
uncharacteristically vocal in lashing out
at journalists - has prompted more and more columnists to ask whether they are watching Tarkan in the last gasp of his celebrity.
One of the worst examples has been one time old friend
Rahşan Gülşan . In her column printed by Turkish newspaper
Sabah , while asking the question whether
we are witnessing the end of Tarkan , she made uncomfortable - if completely unrelated and unfounded - parallels to Michael Jackson's fall from grace.
"Tarkan's outbursts are like those people with low IQ at road jams," Gülşan writes. "These scenes remind me of Michael Jackson - someone Tarkan is influenced by. Tarkan, pull yourself together! I'm saying this as a fan, and an old friend, what you're doing now isn't going to fuel your fame anymore." ( Translation by Ali Yildirim )
However, it seems that none of the reporters are calculating in the "talent factor". Tarkan is not a talentless, manufactured pop star. Not only can he sing, he has a "star quality" that seems to
attract people from all walks of life .
The Talent Factor
Tarkan's popularity has never been based on what papers have said, but on what the singer has sung. And I can't help but wonder, had Tarkan's English album been an overnight success would the media have been so quick to target Tarkan?
Back in 1968,
Andy Warhol
said: "In the future, everybody will be world-famous for 15 minutes." This prophetic line rings true for most low list celebs, but those with talent will stick to a country's consciousness.
The Turkish celebrity press mustn't confuse artistic talent with celebrity. They may attempt to "dent" the celeb status of Tarkan, but that is as far as they can throw the dirt, because Tarkan's talent and his continued music success will ultimately be tagged to his productive output.
After all, shouldn't it be "celebrity is as celebrity does", and not as the media would have them do?
But Tarkan should also be reminded there is a flipside to trying to push out the celebrity media from the equation. If the public want to see more of Tarkan - and the pop star wants to control the images the public get to see - arguably he'll have to get
better backing
to manage his public image. He should apply the adage to be "seen and not heard" - protesting a little less, and concentrating on proving his critics wrong.
Read
feedback about this article
>>
The views in this article are those of the author alone.
Read more
Mark Mayhey articles on Tarkan
>>
The Next Elvis? |
Tarkan News Index
|
Death of a Dream
>>
posted by Tarkan Deluxe at
6:27 a.m.
Sunday, December 03, 2006
Defining Legacies
Turkish trip 'defines Benedict papacy'
By David Willey, BBC's Rome correspondent
Pope Benedict has returned to Rome at the end of his first visit to a predominantly Muslim country having apparently successfully defused criticism that he views the Islamic faith as "violent".
In Istanbul, we have, I believe, witnessed some defining moments of the papacy of Benedict XVI.
He
reached out to Muslims
by praying facing towards Mecca in a famous mosque.
And he reached out to Orthodox Christians, seeking to heal a rift that has lasted more than 1,000 years by holding joint services and giving a joint blessing to their faithful by the side of Patriarch Bartholomew, their spiritual leader, on the holiest day in their church calendar.
The Pope won the praise of Turkey's former religious affairs director Mehmet Nuri Yılmaz for facing Mecca when he prayed in silence inside Istanbul's Blue Mosque.
Benedict closed his eyes and moved his lips in prayer for what seemed like two very long minutes after being shown around this famous gem of 17th-Century Ottoman architecture.
The moment was "even more meaningful than an apology" for the Pope's much criticised remarks about the Prophet Muhammad in September, said the Mufti of Istanbul, Mustafa Cağrıcı, the Pope's guide during the visit.
The religious and historical symbolism of the Pope's journey to Istanbul has been striking.
One of its dominant monuments is the broad-domed former Christian church of Hagia Sophia, built by the Roman Emperor Justinian 1,500 years ago.
For centuries this was the largest church in the world. After the fall of Constantinople in 1453, Hagia Sophia became a mosque; now it is a museum.
Yet a prayer here would have been considered out of place.
It would have offended his hosts, the government of the secular Turkish state.
Benedict respected protocol. But 10 minutes later, under the glare of television lights, he was praying at the side of an imam inside the Blue Mosque, only 500 metres away from Hagia Sophia.
It's been a historic week.
_________________________
Comprehensive Solutions
BBC News
Jordan's King Abdullah has warned that three civil wars could break out in the Middle East unless the international community takes urgent action.
Speaking on US TV, he said conflicts in Lebanon, Iraq and the Palestinian territories could spin out of control.
Abdullah hosted both the US president and the Iraqi prime minister for talks against a backdrop of escalating violence in Iraq last week.
King Abdullah said the central issue in the region remained the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.
"Palestine is the core," he said. "It is linked to the extent of what's going on in Iraq."
"It is linked to what's going on in Lebanon. It is linked to the issues that we find ourselves with the Syrians. So, if you want to do comprehensive - comprehensive means bringing all the parties of the region together."
A ceasefire between Palestinian militant groups and the Israeli military is currently in place in Gaza.
Read more on the
War in Iraq
_________________________
Peace is Better
By Alan Johnston, BBC News, Gaza
After five months of hostilities, Palestinian militants and the Israeli army agreed a ceasefire in the Gaza Strip at the beginning of this week and the truce appears to be holding. People are now hoping this might open the way for the peace process to resume.
I found a man called Mohammad Adwan sitting in a plastic chair on Hamad Street. He was chatting to his wife and children, and enjoying the unexpected peace.
Plastered to the wall above them was a photograph of Mohammad's brother. He was killed on Hamad Street three weeks ago in an Israeli artillery barrage.
He had been trying to rescue his neighbours as the shells crashed down. Nearly 20 people were killed in what the army said was a mistaken, misdirected attack.
All of them were civilians.
Mohammad Adwan said simply: "Our children are scared, and their children are scared. To live in peace is better."
To almost everyone's dismay, in those first hours the new truce was threatened briefly by another volley of missiles from the Palestinian side.
"That's enough with the rockets," said Mohammad wearily. "That's enough."
People here know the rhythms of the politics of the Middle East all too well. They do not really believe that the calm will last.
But right now there is something very unusual in the air in Gaza - there is the faintest sense of hope.
_________________________
Meteorite yields life origin clue
BBC News
Hollow spheres found in a primordial meteorite could yield clues to the origin of life on Earth.
Scientists say that "bubbles" like those in the Tagish Lake meteorite may have helped along chemical processes important for the emergence of life.
The globules could also be older than our Solar System - their chemistry suggests they formed at about -260C, near "absolute zero".
Details of the work by Nasa scientists are published in the journal Science.
Pictures courtesy of
BBC News online .
Read more
news
>>
posted by Tarkan Deluxe at
2:41 p.m.
©
CC License
2004-14. Unless otherwise stated all poetry, prose and art are the original work of the blog owner.
About Tarkan Any Tarkan questions?
Check Q & A
Articles on Tarkan:
Read
Tarkan Concerts:
Reports
Tarkan's Life:
Discover
Tarkan News:
Index
Tarkan Song Lyrics:
In English
Tarkan Video News:
Archive
Tarkan Visuals:
List
|
Blog Official Tarkan Links                         Blog Archives
- Select -
April 2004
May 2004
June 2004
July 2004
August 2004
September 2004
October 2004
November 2004
December 2004
January 2005
May 2005
June 2005
July 2005
August 2005
September 2005
October 2005
November 2005
December 2005
January 2006
February 2006
March 2006
April 2006
May 2006
June 2006
July 2006
August 2006
September 2006
October 2006
November 2006
December 2006
January 2007
February 2007
March 2007
April 2007
May 2007
June 2007
July 2007
August 2007
September 2007
October 2007
November 2007
December 2007
January 2008
February 2008
March 2008
April 2008
May 2008
June 2008
July 2008
August 2008
September 2008
October 2008
November 2008
December 2008
January 2009
February 2009
March 2009
April 2009
May 2009
June 2009
July 2009
August 2009
September 2009
October 2009
November 2009
December 2009
January 2010
February 2010
March 2010
April 2010
May 2010
June 2010
July 2010
August 2010
November 2010
December 2010
March 2013
May 2013
June 2013
July 2013
August 2013
September 2013
October 2013
November 2013
January 2014
February 2014
March 2014
May 2014
June 2014
July 2014
September 2014
February 2015
March 2015
April 2015
June 2015
July 2015
August 2015
September 2015
October 2015
Current Posts