Alcohol World Records
SET A RECORD!
Explore Records
Blog
Log in / Sign Up
Categories
»
Drinking World Records
»
Alcohol World Records
Alcohol World Records
Related Tags:
beer
wine
whiskey
bloody mary
label
margarita
peach schnapps
Sort by
Top Rated
Relevance
Alphabetically
Most Recent
Top Rated
22 Records Found
03:47
Fastest Time To Remove Cork From Empty Wine Bottle Using A Napkin
Sam Birdsong
Sam Birdsong removed a cork from an empty bottle of wine using just
a napkin in two minutes, 55.47 seconds.
Largest Bloody Mary Toast
Bricks Sports Bar & Grill
A total of 83 people from Bricks Sports Bar & Grill in Colorado Springs toast their Bloody Mary cocktails. They set the record to raise money for Black Forest Fire & Rescue.
00:44
Fastest Time To Drink A Beer
Robert Butler
Robert Butler drank a 12-ounce bottle of beer in 2.96 seconds.
NOTE:
Speed drinking can be dangerous. Please use caution and have adult
supervision on hand. Must be of legal drinking age to attempt
feat.
11:26
Most Wine Corks Held In One Hand
Kellen Potter
Kellen P. held 60 wine corks in his hand at once.
00:47
Most People Drinking Bloody Marys On A Staircase
Kristian Foy
22 people drank Bloody Marys on a staircase, a world record.
Longest Time Gargling Tequila
Brian
Brian gargled a shot of tequila for 31.3 seconds.
NOTE: Must be of legal drinking age to attempt this record.
#BM2007
01:45
Largest Group Consumption Of A Shot Of Alcohol [ADULT]
Adam Fidler
Adam Fidler organized a group of twelve people who simultaneously did a
shot off of a pair of skis.
06:54
Fastest Time To Drink A Glass Of Beef Bile Beer
Chuck Saragossi
Chuck S. drank a 10-oz glass of beef bile beer in two minutes, 12.43 seconds.
WARNING: Speed drinking can be extremely dangerous. Please do not attempt this record unless you are above the age of 18 and trained as a professional speed drinker. We will not accept speed drinking submissions from minors.
00:15
Fastest One-Liter Beer Chug
schuggernott
Kyle S. drank one liter of beer in 4.37 seconds.
WARNING: Speed and alcohol drinking can be extremely dangerous. Please do not attempt this record unless you are above the age of 18 and trained as a professional drinker. We will not accept submissions from minors.
Largest Tap Takeover
Get Real Presents
Get Real Presents put together a citywide tap takeover. Beer enthusiasts went sampling from 121 taps of New York-brewed beers from different bars all over the city. The record was set as part of NY Beer Day during Get Real Beer Week. They set the record to raise money for The Mayor's Fund for Hurricane Sandy Relief in NYC and the Food Bank for NYC.
Participating bars include Alewife NYC, Brickyard Gastropub, The Double Windsor, House of Brews 46th, House of Brews 51st, Idle Hands Bar, The Jeffrey, Jimmys No. 43, Katch Astoria, Kent Ale House, Little Town Union Square, New York Beer Co., Pacific Standard, Tommy Lasagna.
WARNING: Excess alcohol consumption can be hazardous to one’s health. Please do not attempt this record unless you are above the age of 21. We will not accept submissions in this category from minors.
00:53
Most Distilled Alcoholic Beverages Created For Personal Collection
Andrej Kavcic
Andrej K. created 33 distilled alcoholic beverages on his own to use for his personal collection.
08:11
Fastest Time To Drink Four Cans Of Carlsberg Special Brew
Essex Animal
The Essex Animal drank four cans of Carlsberg Special Brew in four minutes, 29.70 seconds.
WARNING: Speed drinking can be extremely dangerous. Please do not attempt this record unless you are above the age of 18 and trained as a professional speed drinker. We will not accept submissions in this category from minors.
01:26
Fastest Time To Drink A 24-Ounce Can Of Beer
eeK
eeK drank a 24-ounce can of beer in 5.78 seconds.
NOTE: Speed drinking can be dangerous. Please use caution when making an attempt.
Most Lit Sparklers In An Alcoholic Beverage
Lanie Smith
lsmith3111 had an alcoholic beverage containing five lit sparklers.
Most People Drinking Beer While Standing On A Giant Turtle Statue
VTKlustrum
VTKlustrum and four of his friends drank beer while standing on a giant turtle statue.
01:49
Largest Group Toast
Octavian Drulea
Octavian Drulea led a group toast in which 17 glasses were raised at
once, a new world record. One participant clinked a virtual beverage: an
iBeer application for the iPhone, which he then emptied on camera.
Drulea set the record on February 17, 2009 at a World Record
Appreciation Society event at the Hemlock Tavern in San
Francisco, California. Dan Rollman and Debbie Hampton were present as
witnesses.
#WRAS04
< prev
1
|
2
next >
Sign up for RecordSetter
Sign up
Your name:
Your e-mail address:
Choose a password:
I am 14 or older
By clicking "create account", you agree that you've read and understand the
Terms of Use
Already a member?
×
Loading data...
×
About RecordSetter
Set a Record!
Submit
Contact
FAQ
Store
Legal
©RecordSetter. All Rights Reserved. 2015.