drinks | BitterSweet
Menu
Portfolio
Cookbook Errata
FAQ
Craft Patterns
Recipe Index
Advertise
BitterSweet
An Obsession with All Things Handmade and Home-Cooked
Tag Archives:
drinks
July 27, 2014
by
Hannah (BitterSweet)
14 Comments
Silent Sunday: Coffee Break
New Orleans-Style Iced Coffee from
Blue Bottle
Almond Latte from
The Mill
Mint Mojito Iced Coffee from
Philz
Cappuccino from
Cliff House
Coffee Boba from
Boba Guys
Categories:
Photography ,
Travel
| Tags:
coffee ,
drinks ,
photography ,
San Francisco ,
still life ,
vegan
|
Permalink .
February 27, 2014
by
Hannah (BitterSweet)
17 Comments
Have Protein, Will Travel
In a food paradise as diverse and accessible as Honolulu, it seems like a crime to even consider packing the standard “emergency” food that covers the standard range of granola bars and protein shakes. Vegan options exist almost anywhere you go, even where you’d
least expect it . That’s why I was surprised by just how handy my little packets of Amazing Meal, made by powdered greens-pusher
Amazing Grass , proved to be in no time at all.
Compared to my non-existent activity level at home, walking miles across town every day felt like training for the Olympics. Even with my voracious appetite for eating out, trying new restaurants, and cooking as much exotic produce I could get my hands on, I still found my energy levels dipping severely come midday. Rather than relying the standard quick fix from a cup of coffee, the
Cafe Mocha
superfood blend was genuinely revitalizing, and without any jitters of course. The vaguely greenish hue is the only hint of the goodness packed within each glass. Trust me, I won’t willingly drink any swampy protein powders that can only be described as tasting
healthy
at best, and it was no struggle to drain my cup. Head and shoulders above most dried greens blends even when mixed with only cold water, the light cocoa flavor gives way to a hint of coffee, very gently sweetened to round out the flavors. No, it’s not something you would mistake for a decadent milkshake, but it’s far tastier than most healthy powdered drinks on the market. For a quick energy infusion on the go, I’m very grateful to have these slim packets in my bag, just in case.
Categories:
Food ,
Reviews
| Tags:
Amazing Grass ,
drinks ,
protein ,
shakes ,
smoothies ,
vegan
|
Permalink .
December 8, 2013
by
Hannah (BitterSweet)
90 Comments
Nog-Off: Speed Round Rematch!
Two years after the
first fight
for vegan nog supremacy went down, the landscape of dairy-free, egg-free holiday beverages has finally shifted once more. The first change is not a happy one; it seems that the Earth Balance Soy Nog has thrown in the towel, bowing out of the game altogether. This would have left a gaping hole in the lineup, but the good news is that a spry newcomer has stepped up to the plate in its wake. Going by the name of “ Holiday Nog ” by
Califia Farms , this rookie is a definite underdog, having appeared on the scene with little fanfare and almost no web presence. It doesn’t help matters that these shapely 48-ounce bottles are Whole Foods Market exclusives, severely limiting their availability across the country.
What the Holiday Nog lacks in distribution, it makes up for in innovation. The first almond-based nog on the market, it fills a niche previously untouched, meaning that those first punches land with great impact on the largely soy-based competitors. Touting itself as a lighter choice, it goes beyond the standard comparison to traditional eggnog, and goes straight for the kill, hitting where it hurts and boasting lower sugar content than any of the other commercial options out there. True to the claims, this milky elixir pours freely, approximately the same viscosity of standard almond milk. Fine for a solo sip, but that kind of thickness really can’t support an added splash of holiday “spirit”.
Without any detectable almond flavor, it was a brash, borderline harsh and definitely manufactured nutmeg note that dominated, storming in a bit too hard and heavy to really enjoy. The rookie must have tired itself out in that first barrage, because the sweetness struck me as rather lacking, too. Some will definitely appreciate this aspect, owing to a light hand on the organic cane sugar, but quite frankly, I wanted a treat that could stand up to the promise of eggnog, and this just wasn’t doing it. Sorry, sports fans, but this kid is down for the count, leaving
So Delicious
as the reining champ.
For you folks keeping score at home, that brings the final ranking, from most highly to least recommended, to…
1.
Coconut Nog
by
So Delicious
2.
Silk Nog
by
Silk
3.
Holiday Nog
by
Califia Farms
4.
Rice Nog
by
Rice Dream
Don’t let me tell you what to fill your mug with, though. Host you own nog-off at home and taste the options for yourself!
I’m giving away a
$25 gift certificate
for
Whole Foods Market , furnished by the natural grocery giant itself, so that you can pick up a full complement of eggless nogs, or whatever else might bring you a bit of edible holiday cheer. All you need to do is be a resident of the US, and leave me a comment about your favorite commercial nog, homemade recipes, or what you like to make with your excess nog once the holidays are over. Make sure your name and email are both entered into the appropriate boxes so I know who to contact! The entry period will be open until
Friday the 13th at Midnight EST , so start talking!
UPDATE:
After consulting with my very favorite
random number generator , together we determined that the winner of the gift card would be…
The owner of comment #40, otherwise known as
sara !
If that wasn’t the result you were hoping for, don’t despair. You can still snap up a coupon good for
50 cents of off Califia Holiday Nog
should you want to give it a try yourself. Stay tuned for more giveaways to come, too!
Categories:
Food ,
Reviews
| Tags:
beverage ,
drinks ,
eggnog ,
holiday ,
review ,
seasonal ,
vegan
|
Permalink .
January 30, 2012
by
Hannah (BitterSweet)
16 Comments
Winter Tomatoes
Considering how much I already enjoy rambling on about the weather, past, present, and future, I can only imagine what a hoot I’ll be by the time I’m 80 and mostly senile. Every conversation will begin and end with the forecast, as reliably timed as the news stations themselves. Who knows, maybe I just inadvertently stumbled upon a whole new gig for when I retire.
Regardless, it seems that everyone is gossiping about the atmospheric conditions lately. 50-degree days in late January, immediately followed by sleet, later to be washed away for another sunny afternoon? It’s the best sort of madness, removing the fangs from a brutal winter season while keeping things exciting. Scores of sunny days in a row make it seem like spring is just around the corner, and I can’t help but feel optimistic that we put the worst behind us way back in
October . Unfortunately, the growing season is now lagging far behind my cravings for fresh produce.
Glistening red orbs of heirloom tomatoes taunt from pristine display towers, looking every bit as viable as the misshapen turnips and beets just down the aisle. Winter tomatoes, which sounds like the butt of a joke, tempt me like never before, and with the warmth of an unseasonably bright sun on my side, I can’t resist this time.
Condensing those savory fruits into a pure and fresh elixir seemed like the best approach, and nothing says “refreshing” quite like home-pressed juice. Inspired by the classic
Bloody Mary , this virgin drink is not nearly so gruesome, and so much lighter and brighter than the original.
Bloodless Mary
4 Large, Ripe Tomatoes
1 Ounce Fresh Parsley
1 Very Small Clove Garlic (Optional)
2 Stalks Celery
1 Medium Cucumber or 4 – 6 Big Leaves Romaine
1/4 Lemon, Seeded
1/2 Inch Fresh Ginger
1 Teaspoon
Coconut Aminos
or
Braggs Liquid Aminos
1/4 Teaspoon Cayenne Pepper
Freshly Ground Black Pepper, to Taste
If you have a juicer, simply run all of the veggies through skim off the foam. Stir in both aminos and pepper.
For those working with a blender, toss everything in, except for the lemon. Squeeze the juice from it first before discarding the rind. Turn it on high speed and process until completely smooth. Pass the liquid through a fine mesh strainer or
nut milk bag
and discard the solids.
Garnish with lemon slices, celery stalks, cucumber spears, or any sort of pickled veggies. Drink up!
For a
Full-Blooded
version, simply add 2 teaspoons light agave nectar and 1/4 cup (2 ounces) vodka.
Makes 2 Servings
Printable Recipe
Categories:
Baking / Cooking ,
Food
| Tags:
alcohol ,
drinks ,
juice ,
recipe ,
tomatoes ,
vegan
|
Permalink .
Post navigation
Support the Blog, Buy a Book!
Search for:
Subscribe via RSS
Email Subscription
Enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Join 11,661 other followers
Sponsors:
Muck Boots
UK Models
Craft Resources
Craftster
Crochet Pattern Central
Knitting Pattern Central
Knitty
The Daily Knitter
Food Resources
Besty
Everyday Dish
Go Dairy Free
ifood.tv
The Post Punk Kitchen
Veg Gourmet
Veg Kitchen
Vegan.Com
VeganBaking.Net
VegNews
VegWeb
Flickr Photos
More Photos
Blog at WordPress.com .
|
The Yoko Theme .
Top
BitterSweet
Blog at WordPress.com .
The Yoko Theme .
Follow
Follow “BitterSweet”
Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.
Join 11,661 other followers
Build a website with WordPress.com
Add your thoughts here... (optional)
Post to
Cancel