Sage and Sand fun and entertaining place to cool your jets | Examiner.com
Skip to main content
Report this ad
In Leisure:
Food & Drink Travel Spa & Beauty Autos & Motorcycles Bars & Clubs
Facebook Twitter Google Plus Search
Leisure
Bars & Clubs
Nightlife
Sage and Sand fun and entertaining place to cool your jets
September 28, 2010
12:14 AM MST
Facebook
Twitter
Pinterest
Linkedin
Google Plus
Cheryl is quick with the smiles and drinks at Sage and Sand
Erin Ronald
Sage and Sand Bar
Rating: Star 5 Star Star Star Star
Sage and Sand Bar may not be much to look at from the street, and one might even miss it if they weren't looking for it, but looks prove deceiving once you walk through the front door.
Having recently been vastly remodeled, the bar now boasts larger restrooms for patrons and a totally revamped backyard. The service and atmosphere are warm and inviting and there is always something going on any day of the week you happen to drop in.
From football drink and food specials on Sunday and Monday to the double elimination pool tournaments on Friday, Sage and Sand offers up a variety of activities to keep their patrons happy.
The pool tournaments are just the tip of the entertainment iceberg at Sage and Sand.
In addition to live music on both Friday and Saturday (with great valley bands like Woodenickel, Krimson Chord, and Boomer), they also have karaoke on Sunday and Wednesday.
While you're waiting to belt out a tune on Wednesday, make sure you get in on the bar's Texas Hold 'Em tournament at one of the two deal times (7pm and 10pm).
Feel like dancing? Sage and Sand has you covered there as well, providing a DJ on Thursday nights.
Darts and shuffleboard help round out the indoor activities while an array of outdoor activities await once you head out the back door.
Once outside, you will find a whole different type of atmosphere.
With a sand volleyball court, half-court basketball, two horseshoe pits, ping-pong, and croquet, there is certainly no shortage of outdoor fun to be had by anyone.
There is also a small bar and various outdoor seating for those who prefer to sit under the stars and sip their drinks.
The drink specials are about as numerous as the activities this fun bar has to offer.
Happy Hour prices are $1.50 for domestic drafts ($2.00 bottles) and $2.00 well cocktails. Regular price for domestic drafts is a mere $2.00 (bottles $2.75) and wells will run you $3.00.
Happy Hour runs from 6am-6pm daily.
In that same time frame on Mondays, you can get a
Bloody Mary
for $2.50.
Saturday night is Bike Night, with Happy Hour pricing from 8pm-close for all guests.
If you show up on your motorcycle, you get primo bar-front parking, reserved just for those who like to ride.
So if you're really looking for the most bang for your buck, Sage and Sand is the place to be.
You can reach the bar at (623) 935-5810.
They are located at 13831 W Glendale Ave, Glendale, Arizona, 85307 (right across from
Luke Air Force Base ).
Report this content
Share
this article
Facebook
Twitter
Pinterest
Linkedin
Google Plus
Subscribe
to author
Comments
Jacqulyn Fletcher
5 years ago
Fantastic Article!!! Great Job Erin!!!
Report this content
Kenneth Schortgen Jr
5 years ago
LOL... you should have told me you were going to do a review at the Sage and Sand... I run the Friday night pool tournaments there!
Phoenix Billiards Examiner
Report this content
Erin Ronald Glendale Budget Nightlife Examiner Erin Ronald has been bar hopping around the Valley of the Sun for ten years and knows how to pinch a penny when out on the town. She lives in El Mirage, Arizona with her black lab, 8-ball, and can be reached via email at
bbmcg78@yahoo.com . Contact me
Featured
Video
Related
stories
Visine bar prank: The dangerous truth about putting eye drops in a drink
Blushing Brides, a tribute to the Rolling Stones
Joliet and suburban Halloween parties and events
Top Ten Pizza Joints in the Clearwater Area
The top 5 places to meet singles in San Diego
Leisure
highlights
Review : Smartphone Wallet from Harley-Davidson is perfect for rides around town Harley-Davidson has got some great new items in store for the 2015 holiday season and their Smartphone Leather Wallet for the ladies makes a perfect gift or stocking stuffer. It is made of lambskin...
Camera
Six best beauty looks from Black-ish star Tracee Ellis Ross Black actresses are definitely having a moment when it comes to drawing in audiences for TV shows. From Kerry Washington in “Scandal” to Viola Davis in “How to Get Away with Murder”, shows starring...
Report this ad
POPULAR
in BARS & CLUBS
Visine bar prank: The dangerous truth about putting eye drops in a drink
Blushing Brides, a tribute to the Rolling Stones
Joliet and suburban Halloween parties and events
Top Ten Pizza Joints in the Clearwater Area
The top 5 places to meet singles in San Diego
Trick and Treat: Adult Halloween Parties in Kansas City
Casey McQuillen, you matter
Scientist warn organic and natural cosmetics and skin care products are no good
Introducing..My Crazy Girlfriend
The benefits of live music
TRENDING
on EXAMINER.COM
Final Jeopardy answer costs contestant $6000 as she unwittingly insults liberals
Three pit bulls rescued from Florida storm drain
Heartbroken dog begs his owner not to abandon him at shelter
Stunned passengers watch huge dog roll into first class on airplane
Skeletal dog fights for her life in Phoenix
Undercover sting results in arrest of man who wanted to have sex with animals
D'Arcee Neal: Severely disabled man on plane crawls down aisle
Saudi prince drug smuggling on private plane: Will Saudi prince be beheaded?
Megalodon teeth from mouth of 60-ft shark: Jaw-dropping find on N.C. shore
Florida hunter blows life away of nearly blind, old 'Grandfather Bear'
Report this ad
Report this ad
Facebook
Twitter
Linkedin
Google+
Pinterest
Company Links
About us
OnTopic custom content
The Rowdy
Advertise with us
Sitemap
Examiner.com Entertainment
| AXS Network | © 2006-2015 AXS Digital Group LLC d/b/a
Examiner.com |
Privacy Policy
|
Terms of Use
|
About us
Choose a Topic
Arts & Entertainment Arts & Entertainment Music Movies TV Arts & Exhibits Performing Arts Reality TV Celebrity Pop Culture Animation Young Adult Fiction Books Movie Reviews Comic Books AXS Entertainment AXS Entertainment Music Movies TV Arts & Exhibits Performing Arts NFL NHL MLB NBA Fight Sports Soccer Recreational Sports Reality TV Music Festivals News News Top News International News Strange News Science & Space Politics Elections Environment Extreme Weather Government Crime & Courts Business & Finance Same-Sex Marriage Small Business Stock Market Gun Control Global Warming Personal Finance Democrat Republican Political Buzz Marketing and PR Immigration Life Life Home & Living Pets Style & Fashion Family & Parenting Health & Fitness Education Religion & Spirituality Weight Loss & Dieting Weddings Gardening Home Improvement Relationships Green Living Nutrition Neighborhoods Careers & Workplace Sales & Deals Healthcare Jobs Hobbies Leisure Leisure Food & Drink Travel Spa & Beauty Autos & Motorcycles Bars & Clubs Recipes Drinks Budget Travel DIY Mechanic Auto Reviews Natural Beauty Luxury Travel Makeup Hair & Nails Sports Sports MLB NFL NBA NHL Soccer Fight Sports Recreational Sports College Sports General Sports Fantasy Sports Motorsports Hunting & Fishing Hiking Camping Running Equestrian Water Sports Action Sports Endurance Sports Recreation Tech Tech Gadgets & Tech Video Games Internet Tech Gear Tablets iPhone Google Glass Wearable Tech Xbox One Playstation 4 Photography MMOGs Handheld Games Facebook Anonymous Social Media Consoles Bitcoin Google Twitter Video Log In / Register Write for Us
Search