Microwaved testicles «
The Postgraduate Forum for the History of Medicine
Home
About
Podcasts
Blog
Contact
Calendar
Useful information
Discussion Board
Microwaved testicles
June 26th, 2011 | Posted in
Blog
| By
Gareth Millward
|
0 Comments
Good. I’ve got your attention. The history of medicine can often be quite dry. Thankfully, there is a way to access debates on bioethics, diversity and the social construction of disease whilst watching 10 year old children swearing and making fart jokes.
Ladies and gentlemen, I give you
The History of Medicine – South Park Style . 5 episodes that cover topics that historians of medicine tackle on a daily basis.
Alcoholism
Episode:
Bloody Mary :
Randy Marsh likes a drink. But when he gets pulled over for drink driving with his son and his friends in his car he is ordered to attend Alcoholics Anonymous. Their twelve step programme convinces Randy that he has a disease over which he has no control. Tormented by his “demons”, Randy finds himself drinking beer all day every day even though he doesn’t want to – because he has a disease, you see.
Angry at the way AA has brainwashed his father, Stan goes to their meeting to tell them that they are hurting his dad. Far from having a disease, Randy just needs “disaprin” (hey, it worked for the Karate Kid) and needs to “stop drinking so much”. However, Stan is told that Randy cannot simply drink a bit less because he has a disease.
Some pretty weird stuff ensues, including a bleeding Madonna and the Pope, but as an introduction to alcoholism, drug abuse, the power of miracle cures, and debates over personal responsibility you won’t find many more insulting.
Stem Cell Research
Episode:
Krazy Kripples :
“That Butt-Hole Christopher Reeve” is coming to South Park to give a motivational talk to the residents. Christopher Reeve used to play Superman, but he is now, ironically, paralysed from the neck down. Still, he has hope that he can be cured. He has been funding stem cell research, and is showing signs of recovery. After sucking the juice out of a foetus, he can move his hand, and later gains the power to stand up.
Of course – he takes things too far. Drunk on the power of drinking foetuses, he takes so many that he can pick up cars and even fly. He sets up a dastardly lair from where he can take over the world. Ironically, the only many who can save the planet is his arch nemesis from the movie – Gene Hackman. “Yes, if irony were made of strawberries we’d all be drinking an awful lot of smoothie right now.”
The episode asks a lot of questions about “cure” and whether we are capable of using another human life to extend our own. Will stem cells really offer the solutions we seek, or could it go too far? Should Lex Luther ever be involved in such things? A bio-ethical conundrum dressed up with its pants outside its trousers.
AIDS
Episode:
Tonsil Trouble :
AIDS has been “done” a number of times on South Park, but their most recent offering questions the role of finance, research and public attitudes. After a botched blood transfusion, Eric Cartman is infected with HIV. When class mate Kyle finds this hilarious, Cartman sneaks into his bedroom and injects him with contaminated blood. Now that they are both infected, they have to work together to find a cure.
The problem is, nobody cares. Cartman tries to organise a benefit gig with Elton John, but AIDS just isn’t sexy any more. All the cool celebrities are raising money for cancer. The only guy they can convince to play is Jimmy Buffett.
But there is hope – the boys learn that Magic Johnson, who has been HIV positive for years, is still leading a productive life in Hollywood. When they reach his house, they realise the only thing that makes him different to them is that he sleeps with piles and piles of money. Rushing the money to the lab, they see that injections of cold, hard cash into the blood stream destroy the HIV virus. The government rush out to Nigeria to tell the people “all you need to do is inject yourself with your cash!” before speeding off into the distance.
Subtle? No. But it asks some very important questions about why certain diseases are seen as more relevant than others, why research priorities shift, and just whether or not we are willing to dedicate resources to people who just aren’t “our problem”.
Ethnic Medicine
Episode:
Cherokee Hair Tampons :
Kyle is dying. He needs a kidney transplant or he will die. Unfortunately, the whole town has got hooked on “holistic medicine” and are convinced a collection of herbs and ritualistic statues can cure Kyle of his ills. Stan is horrified, and spends the rest of the episode trying to convince his parents and everyone else that only Western biomedicine can actually help his young friend.
Kyle’s parents remain adamant that this medicine will rid him of his toxins, and continue to buy products from Miss Information and her “Cherokee” employees . The women even buy Cherokee Hair Tampons because they are more natural and therefore safer than the mass-produced artificial stuff produced by Western chemical companies. However, when Kyle’s mother brings a nearly-dead Kyle to the woman’s shop to ask what else she should do, the “Cherokee” tell her she should really go to a doctor. It turns out the Native Americans were actually Mexicans Cheech and Chong.
The best line of the episode has to go to Stan. Stan questions how this holistic medicine works. Stan’s mother snaps “these people had their land stolen away from them, Stanley”. The boy replies “and that makes their medicine better because…?”
At the heart of it, this might seem like a “bio-medicine good/faith medicine bad” tale. Behind it, though, is a deeper debate about quackery, the power of placebo effects, and the business of medicine, both scientific and traditional.
Public Health
Episode:
Medicinal Fried Chicken :
The KFC has been closed down! A new bill in Colorado has made it illegal to put fast food outlets in poor areas. Since KFC only exists in poor areas, Colorado is a “dry” state when it comes to the Colonel’s gravy. Cartman ends up visiting the Colonel’s plantation in Kentucky arranging to smuggle KFC over the state line. His chicken racket has the potential to be very lucrative – if only he would stop overdosing on the product.
Meanwhile, the KFC in South Park has been replaced by a medical marijuana store. Excited, Randy orders a selection of different varieties of herb – but, alas, you need to have a prescription. If only Randy had cancer. His doctor refuses to tell him how to get cancer, so Randy decides to do some internet research. His solution? He puts his balls in the microwave.
The next morning, Randy has massive testicles. So big, he needs to carry them around in a wheel barrow. He is diagnosed with cancer (RESULT!) and immediately goes down to the store to get stoned out of his skull. His friends around the town follow suit, and soon most of the men in South Park have cancer.
The authorities reach a very simple conclusion. As soon as the KFC left town, men started getting cancer. Therefore, KFC must contain some sort of cancer repressing hormone. Marijuana is declared illegal again, and KFC returns to the town.
There is a crude story here about how authorities can often confuse cause and effect, but a deeper discussion on the role of legislation in protecting the health of citizens in contemporary society. There is also a crucial question to be asked about how people are willing to do things they know are dangerous just to get a quick “fix”, be it secret recipe chicken or weed. At what point should society step in, and at what point must individuals accept responsibility for their own actions?
Tags:
aids ,
alcohol ,
biomedicine ,
comedy ,
disability ,
ethnic ,
public health ,
quackery ,
stem cell
Related Articles
HIV, Cancer and A History of Early Diagnosis-Early Intervention
Where’s the Beef? Horse Meat and the Absence of Structural Issues in Discourses of Food and Health
Episode 13 – Eric Hobsbawm
Episode 11 – Ferdinand Magellan
Leave a Reply
To get your own thumbnail image, go to
gravatar.com
Click here to cancel reply.
Name (required)
Email (will not be published) (required)
Website
Notify me of follow-up comments by email.
Notify me of new posts by email.
Notify me of followup comments via e-mail
Avatars by
Sterling Adventures
Recent Posts
HIV, Cancer and A History of Early Diagnosis-Early Intervention
Where’s the Beef? Horse Meat and the Absence of Structural Issues in Discourses of Food and Health
Episode 14 – Niall Ferguson
Episode 13 – Eric Hobsbawm
Misc.
Log in
Entries
RSS
Comments
RSS
WordPress.org
Copyright © 2011 The Postgraduate Forum for the History of Medicine. Created by
Digitonik
| Edited by PGFHOM. Infused with valid
XHTML .