Chicago Boyz
» Blog Archive
» The Defeat of the English Armada, the Fall of England, and the Rise of Spain
Chicago Boyz
Enter your search terms
Submit search form
Web
ChicagoBoyz.net
Recommended Photo Store
What Are Chicago Boyz Readers Reading?  Click here to find out.
Make your Amazon purchases though this banner to support our blog:
( Click here
if you don't see the Amazon banner.)
Dr. Michael Kennedy's Medical War Stories
War Stories
------------
Why America's Greatest Days Are Yet to Come
America 3.0
------------
------------
VeryWellSaid.com Best-Selling Books by Topic
Military History
(Top Rated)
British History
(Top Rated)
Middle East
History
(Top Rated)
Land Battles
(Top Rated)
Naval Warfare
(Top Rated)
Air Warfare
(Top Rated)
9/11
(Top Rated)
Terrorism
(Top Rated)
Legal History
(Top Rated)
IP Law
(Top Rated)
Guns
(Top Rated)
------------
InternetTimesaver.com
------------
Join the NRA
------------
------------
The Anglosphere Challenge
The Anglosphere Challenge
"Restore(s) a little sanity into current political debate" -
Kenneth Minogue, TLS   "Projects a more expansive and optimistic future for Americans than (the analysis of) Huntington" -
James R. Kurth, National Interest   "One of (the) most important books I have read in recent years" -
Lexington Green
------------
Oddschecker.com Politics
------------
Advertising
Chicago Boyz is an Amazon and B&H Photo affiliate and earns money when you make Amazon or B&H purchases after clicking on an Amazon or B&H link on this blog.
Chicago Boyz is also a BlogAds affiliate and earns money from advertising placed on this blog through the BlogAds network.
Some Chicago Boyz advertisers may themselves be Amazon affiliates who earn money from any Amazon purchases you make after you click on an Amazon link on their ad on Chicago Boyz or on their own web sites.
Chicago Boyz occasionally accepts direct paid advertising and will consider publishing advertisements for goods or services that in the opinion of Chicago Boyz management would benefit the readers of this blog. Please direct any inquires to
How To Read This Blog
Log in
Enter your email to be notified of new posts:
Problem? Question?
Contact Authors:
CB Twitter Feed
Lex's Tweets
Jonathan's Tweets
Blog Posts (RSS 2.0)
Blog Posts (Atom 0.3)
Incoming Links
Recent Comments
Loading...
Authors
Recent Authors
Bruno Behrend
Carl from Chicago
Charles Cameron
Dan from Madison
David Foster
David McFadden
Ginny
Grurray
Helen
James McCormick
Jay Manifold
Jonathan
Kevin Villani
L. C. Rees
Leif Smith
Lexington Green
Margaret
Michael Kennedy
Mrs. Davis
Sgt. Mom
T. Greer
TM Lutas
Trent Telenko
Zenpundit
Past Authors
Andy B
Captain Mojo
Carl Ortona
demimasque
In-Cog-Nito
James C. Bennett
James R. Rummel
John Jay
Joseph Fouche
Mitch Townsend
onparkstreet
Ralf Goergens
Shannon Love
Smitten Eagle
Steven Den Beste
Telegram from Innisfree
Verity
Notable Discussions
- 25 Stories About Work
- Afghanistan 2050
- Battle of Okinawa @ 65
- Beck-O-Lanche
- Clausewitz Roundtable
- Coolidge
- Economic and Political Turmoil a Century after the Great War by Kevin Villani
-Health Care Reform by Michael Kennedy:
Overview ,
All Posts
-Housing Finance by Kevin Villani:
Post 1 ,
Post 2
- Lex's WW1 Book Recommendations
- Osinga Roundtable on
Science, Strategy and War
- Lancet
Iraq Study
- Reagan Centenary
- Totalitarianism and the Fully Politicized Society
Recent Posts
Quote of the Day
Celestial Navigation
Organizational Culture, Improvisation, Success, and Failure
Big Sky
The other state without a budget
Celiac Disease and the “Worried Well”
Worthwhile Reading & Viewing
Run
No, They Are Not (for the most part) “Self-Hating”
Does loco weed grow in Canada ?
Blogroll
A Brief History
A Fistful Of Euros
a public defender
A Voyage to Arcturus
Absurd Blog
According to Hoyt
Ace of Spades HQ
Acton Institute
AgainstCronyCapitalism.org
Agoraphilia
Alan Macfarlane
Alan Macfarlane E-Books
Alan Macfarlane YouTube
Albion's Seedlings (archive)
All That Is Necessary…
ALTHOUSE
Amer. Council on Sci. & Health
America 3.0 Institute Blog
America 3.0 YouTube Channel
AMERICAN DIGEST
American Rhetoric
AMERICAN THINKER
Answering Muslims
Architecture + Morality
Arma Virumque (New Criterion)
Arnold Kling
Arts & Letters Daily
Assistant Village Idiot
Athens and Jerusalem
Atlantic Review
Augean Stables
Automatic Ballpoint
Babalu
Bad Science
baldilocks
Balkinization
Baseball Crank
Becker-Posner Blog (archive)
BeldarBlog
Belmont Club
Belmont Club (archive)
Ben Bernanke
Betsy’s Page
Big Lizards
Big Picture
BLACKFIVE
BLDG BLOG
Bob Krumm
boingboing
bookforum.com
Bookstores of Chicago
Bookworm Room
Breitbart
Brian Micklethwait
Brits at their Best
Broader View [Israel and Mideast]
Brothers Judd
Bruce Charlton's Miscellany
Brussels Journal
BuzzMachine
Cafe Hayek
Calculated Risk
Captain's Journal
Caroline Glick
Carpe Diem
Catholicgauze
Cato Downsizing Blog
Cato@Liberty
Celia Hayes's Amazon Author Page
Center for Prosecutor Integrity
Chase me, ladies…
Chicago Crime Stats
Chicago Tea Party
Citizen Intelligence
Clare Spark
Classical Values
Clausewitz.com
Clay Shirky
Clayton Cramer
Climate Audit
Climate Etc. (Judith Curry)
Climate Skeptic
Club For Growth
Coffee and Markets (podcasts)
Coffee House Wall
Combined Arms Center Blog
Commentary
Commonsense & Wonder
Concurring Opinions
Conservative History Journal
Conservative Home [UK]
Coordination Problem
Covert Rationing Blog
Coyote Blog
Crime, Guns and Videotape
Crossroads Arabia
Daily Beast
Daily Pundit
Damian Thompson
Daniel J. Mitchell
Daniel Pipes
Data Gone Odd
Datechguy
David Friedman
Davids Medienkritik
Dealbreaker
Defence and Freedom
Defend Your Healthcare
Defense and the National Interest (archive)
Demographia
Derek Lowe
Dinocrat.com
Discover the Networks
Dissident Frogman (archive)
Donald Luskin
Doug Ross
Downsizing Government [Cato]
Dr. Frank
DR. HELEN
Dr. Weevil
Drudge
Drunk Bear Fans
Duck of Minerva
Easy Opinions
EconLog
Ed Driscoll
Eeben Barlow
Elder of Zion
Empire to Commonwealth
English Russia
Enterprise Blog
Enterra Insights
Envisioning the American Dream
EU Referendum
Europe Between East And West
Evolving Excellence
Explorer's Foundation
Extreme Wisdom
Fabius Maximus
Fama/French Forum
Far Outliers
Fashion-Incubator
Fast Transients
Fausta’s Blog
Federalist Society
Flit(tm)
Full Spectrum Dominance
Future of Capitalism
FuturePundit
garage hangover
Garage Punk Hideout
Garreau Group
Gary, Indiana info
Gates of Vienna
Gateway Pundit
Gay Patriot
Gene Expression (archive)
Gerbil News Network
Global Dashboard
Global Guerillas
Global Guerillas on FB
Greg Hinz
Greg Mankiw
Gregory Cochran / Henry Harpending
Haft of the Spear
Harry's place
hbd* chick
Heartland Institute
Helian Unbound
Hell in a Handbasket
Heritage History
HG’s WORLD
History News Network
Hit and Run
Hog on Ice
HomeFree America (John Robb)
Hoover Inst. (Defining Ideas)
Hot Air
How Appealing
Huffington Post
Huffpost Pollster
HughHewitt.com
Iain Dale et al
Iain Murray
IBD Editorials
IL Health Insurance
In From the Cold
Information Dissemination
Ink Spots (archive)
Instapundit
Isegoria
Israel National News
Israellycool
iSteve.com
Janet Daley
Jeff Vail
Jerry Pournelle
Jewish Marksmanship
Jewish World Review
Jihad Watch
jihadica
Jim Miller on Politics
Joanne Jacobs
Joel Kotkin
John B. Taylor
John Cochrane
John Goodman's Health Policy Blog
John L. Hancock (American exceptionalism)
John Lott
John Mauldin
John Stossel
Jonathan's Photo Galleries
Jonathan's Photoblog
Jonathan's Photoblog (archive)
JunkScience.com
JunkScience.com
JustOneMinute
Karl Rove
Kausfiles
Keith Hennessey
KevinMD.com
Kings of War
Knowledge Problem
Kudlow’s Money Politic$
Kunikov’s Reviews
Larry Sabato
Lawfare
Lead and Gold
Lean Blog
Learning Curve
Lefsetz Letter
Legal Insurrection
Legal Whiteboard
Les Samiz
Less than the Least (William Stuntz blog archive)
Lewis Shepherd
libertas (conservative film crit)
Liberty's Torch
Library of Law and Liberty
Life In The Great Midwest
Likelihood of Confusion
Lileks
Long War Journal
Lowy Institute
Machinery of Night
Macro and Other Market Musings
Maggie’s Farm
Manhattan Contrarian
Manolo’s Shoe Blog
Manufacturing Leadership Ctr.
Marginal Revolution
Mark Cuban
Mark Durie
Mark Urban
MarketObservation.com
Martin Kramer
Martin van Creveld
Martin Varsavsky
Matt Ridley
MaxedOutMama
Memeorandum
MEMRI
Mere Rhetoricv (archive)
Meryl Yourish
Michael Barone
Michael Fumento (archive)
Michael J. Totten
Michael Kennedy's Book Reviews on Amazon
Michael Ledeen
Michael Yon
Middle East Strategy at Harvard (archive)
MilPub
Milt Rosenberg
Minding the Campus
MIT Tech. Review
Mod Male
Modculture.com
Modern Printmakers
Monneyrunner (Virginian)
Natl. Assn. of Manufacturers
neo-neocon
Neptunus Lex (archive)
Newgeography.com
Newmark’s Door
Newsalert
Next Big Future
NGO Monitor
normblog (archive)
Northwest Indiana Politics
Of Arms & the Law
OGRE eXposed.org
OpenMarket.org (CEI)
Overcoming Bias
Overlawyered
Pajamas Media
Paleofuture
Paleofuture (newer archive)
Paleofuture (older archive)
ParaPundit
Patterico’s Pontifications
Pejman Yousefzadeh
Peter Saint-Andre
Philippine Commentary
PHOTON COURIER
Phyllis Schlafly
Points and Figures
Political Calculations
Popehat
Power Line
Prager University (videos)
Priceonomics Blog
ProfessorBainbridge.com
Project Appleseed
protein wisdom
Pseudoerasmus
Public Interest (Archive)
Puffin Movie Channel
Pundita
PurpleSlog
QandO
Quackwatch
Quid Plura?
Quodlibeta
Rantburg
Rare Historical Photos
Rassmussen Reports
RealClearHistory
RealClearMarkets
RealClearPolitics
RealClearWorld
Rebecca MacKinnon
Rebelpundit
Red Herrings
Red Team Journal
RedState
Registan.net
Reid Hoffman
Resilient Communities (Robb)
Rethinking Security
Retraction Watch
Retronaut [old photos]
Reuven Brenner
Ricochet.com
Riehl World View
Right Coast
Robert's European History Blog
roger l. simon
Roissy/Heartistes
RSA
Rubin Report (archive)
Saeculum Research
say uncle
Scholar's Stage
Second City Cop
Secular Right
Seeking Alpha
Sense of Events
Sepia Mutiny (archive)
Seraphic Secret
Shall Not Be Questioned
Shark Tank [FL politics]
Shelly Palmer (tech news)
Shlok Vaidya
Shorpy
Shot In The Dark
ShrinkWrapped (archive)
Sibling of Daedalus
Simple Justice
Sisu
Small Dead Animals
Small Wars Journal
Smallest Minority
Smitten Eagle
Social Affairs Unit
Sound Politics
Speculist
Spengler (First Things archive)
Spengler (PJ Media)
Spitalfields Life
St. Louis Fed Monetary Aggregates (all)
St. Louis Fed Monetary Aggregates 1
St. Louis Fed Monetary Aggregates 2
State Budget Solutions
Steampunk Chicago
Steven Pressfield
Strange Maps
Strange Maps (archive)
Strategy Page
Stuart Buck
Stuart Schneiderman
Sultan Knish
Tablet
Talk Left
TaxProf Blog
tdaxp
TechCrunch
The Anchoress (Elizabeth Scalia)
The Antiplanner
The Baseline Scenario
The Best Defense (Ricks)
The Camp Of The Saints
The Corner
The Daily Brief
The DiploMad
The Diplomat
The Ether Way
The Fair Jilt
The Federalist
The Glittering Eye
The History Blog
The Interpreter
The John Wilkes Club
The Lexicans
The Middle Stage
THE NEW REFORM CLUB
The Offshore Balancer
The Optimistic Conservative
The Optimistic Conservative (new blog)
The Originalism Blog
The Other McCain
The People’s Cube
The Sanity Inspector
The Skeptical Doctor (Dalrymple excerpts)
The Social Pathologist
The Spectator
The Spirit of Enterprise
The Truth About Guns
The XX Committee
Think-Israel
Thomas P.M. Barnett (archive)
Thomas Sowell
Thoughtful Ideas (Alvin Rabushka)
Thoughts on Military History
Tim Blair
Tim Worstall
To Be or To Do
Today's Inspiration
Transparency Revolution
Transterrestrial Musings
Trust Funds for Kids
U.S. Naval Institute
Uncommon Knowledge (Peter Robinson interviews)
university diaries
Veronique de Rugy
Views from the Occident
Villainous Company
Virginia Postrel
Visions of Empire
Vodkapundit
Volokh Conspiracy
voluntaryXchange
Walter Russell Mead
War IS Boring
Watts Up With That?
White Sun of the Desert
Windypundit
WirePoints (IL Financial News)
World Affairs
xkcd
XRLQ
YARGB
YID With LID
Yiddish Word of the Week
Your Freedom and Ours
ZenPundit
Zero Hedge
Zombie (PJ Media)
zombietime
Categories
25 Stories About Work
Academia
Advertising
Afghanistan 2050
Afghanistan/Pakistan
America 3.0
Americas
Anglosphere
Announcements
Anti-Americanism
Architecture
Arts & Letters
Aviation
Beck-O-Lanche
Big Government
Bioethics
Biography
Blegs
Blogging
Book Notes
Boyd/Osinga Roundtable
Britain
Business
Chicagoania
China
Christianity
Civil Liberties
Civil Society
Clausewitz Roundtable
Commiserations
Conservatism
Coolidge
Crime and Punishment
Crony Capitalism
Cuba
Culture
Current Events
Customer Service
Deep Thoughts
Diversions
Ebola
Economics & Finance
Education
Elections
Energy & Power Generation
Entrepreneurship
Environment
Europe
Feminism
Film
France
Germany
Health Care
History
Holidays
Human Behavior
Humor
That's NOT Funny
Illinois Politics
Immigration
India
International Affairs
Internet
Investment Journal
Iran
Iraq
Ireland
Islam
Israel
Jameson
Japan
Jewish Leftism
Judaism
Just Unbelievable
Korea
Latin America
Law
Law Enforcement
Leftism
Libertarianism
Lit Crit
Management
Marketing
Markets and Trading
Media
Medicine
Middle East
Military Affairs
Miscellaneous
Morality and Philosphy
Music
National Security
Nautical Book Project
New Orleans Tragedy
North America
Obama
Obits
Okinawa 65
Organizational Analysis
Personal Finance
Personal Narrative
Philosophy
Photos
Poetry
Political Philosophy
Politics
Polls
Predictions
Privacy
Product Reviews/Endorsements
Public Finance
Quotations
Reagan Centenary
Real Estate
Recipes
Religion
Reruns
Rhetoric
RKBA
Russia
Schedules
Science
Society
Space
Speeches
Sports
Statistics
Style
Systems Analysis
Taxes
Tea Party
Tech
Terrorism
The Press
Tradeoffs
Transportation
Trump
Uncategorized
Unions
United Nations
Urban Issues
USA
Video
Vietnam
Vitamins
War and Peace
Xenophon Roundtable
Archives
October 2015
September 2015
August 2015
July 2015
June 2015
May 2015
April 2015
March 2015
February 2015
January 2015
December 2014
November 2014
October 2014
September 2014
August 2014
July 2014
June 2014
May 2014
April 2014
March 2014
February 2014
January 2014
December 2013
November 2013
October 2013
September 2013
August 2013
July 2013
June 2013
May 2013
April 2013
March 2013
February 2013
January 2013
December 2012
November 2012
October 2012
September 2012
August 2012
July 2012
June 2012
May 2012
April 2012
March 2012
February 2012
January 2012
December 2011
November 2011
October 2011
September 2011
August 2011
July 2011
June 2011
May 2011
April 2011
March 2011
February 2011
January 2011
December 2010
November 2010
October 2010
September 2010
August 2010
July 2010
June 2010
May 2010
April 2010
March 2010
February 2010
January 2010
December 2009
November 2009
October 2009
September 2009
August 2009
July 2009
June 2009
May 2009
April 2009
March 2009
February 2009
January 2009
December 2008
November 2008
October 2008
September 2008
August 2008
July 2008
June 2008
May 2008
April 2008
March 2008
February 2008
January 2008
December 2007
November 2007
October 2007
September 2007
August 2007
July 2007
June 2007
May 2007
April 2007
March 2007
February 2007
January 2007
December 2006
November 2006
October 2006
September 2006
August 2006
July 2006
June 2006
May 2006
April 2006
March 2006
February 2006
January 2006
December 2005
November 2005
October 2005
September 2005
August 2005
July 2005
June 2005
May 2005
April 2005
March 2005
February 2005
January 2005
December 2004
November 2004
October 2004
September 2004
August 2004
July 2004
June 2004
May 2004
April 2004
March 2004
February 2004
January 2004
December 2003
November 2003
October 2003
September 2003
August 2003
July 2003
June 2003
May 2003
April 2003
March 2003
February 2003
January 2003
Copyright
Chicago Boyz is a registered trademark of Chicago Boyz Media, LLC. All original content on the Chicago Boyz web site is copyright 2001-2015 by Chicago Boyz Media, LLC or the Chicago Boyz contributor who posted it. All rights reserved.
DMCA Information
«
Theory vs Experience, Continued
Afghanistan (Arghandab, etc) links….
»
The Defeat of the English Armada, the Fall of England, and the Rise of Spain
Posted by
Joseph Fouche
on January 24th, 2010 (All posts by
Joseph Fouche )
No one ever expects the
Spanish Armada . Yet, somehow, in the year of our
Lord
1588, England had survived. Perhaps the arrival of the Invincible Armada was
predictable. After all,
Phillip II , the Well-Chinned, His Most Catholic Majesty, king of Spain,
etc . had a well demonstrated habit of oppressing Protestants, at least when he wasn’t indulging his primary passion of breeding the next generation of super-chinned
Hapsburg
superman with
one
of
his
cousins
or maybe a
niece . Of course it didn’t help that
Elizabeth I , the Miser, Queen of England, had pursued a muddled strategy of extreme caution and provocation, which only infuriated a man laboring under the oppressive weight of a giant chin and living heretics.
From a strategic perspective, England had a problem. It’s largest source of economic growth since its conquest by
Guillaume le Bâtard
(known in English as William the Bastard) in 1066 had been revenues
from
French territories supplemented by the occasional plundering
chevauchée . Extensive Continental holdings had given the English monarchy greater scope for its ambitions than it’s island possessions warranted by themselves. England itself was squeezed pretty effectively by an effective tax collection regime that dated from Anglo-Saxon times but it remained a poor territory by European standards and wool exports to the Low Countries only partly supplemented tax revenue. When, in 1453, the English were largely expelled from the Continent, the resources available to the English monarchy became much more modest. Yet their ambitions could remain large.
Henry VIII , the Profligate, strained his treasury as much as his waistline in his pursuit of European relevance. He left the kingdom on the edge of bankruptcy in spite of his seizure and redistribution of Catholic property, and almost as irrelevant to the European balance of power as it was at the start of his reign.
His daughter,
Bloody Mary , was little better.
Henry VII
had courted a Spanish alliance by marrying his son
Arthur
to
Ferdinand and Isabella’s
daughter
Catherine . Arthur inconveniently died, leaving Catherine a widow. As a cost-saving measure to keep Catherine’s large dowry, a motive that would be a recurring theme of the Tudor dynasty, she was married off to Henry, Duke of York, the future Henry VIII. The ultimate result of Henry VII’s thriftiness, Bloody Mary, was therefore inclined to seek an alliance with her Spanish relations after she came to the throne. She arranged a marriage with her much younger cousin, Phillip II, and proceeded to join him in a war on France. The end result was that England’s debts were even larger at Mary’s merciful death than they were at the beginning.
Elizabeth was her miserly grandfather reborn. After a short, disastrous war with France at the very beginning of her reign, Elizabeth followed a fairly conservative foreign policy as far as Continental entanglements went. Relations with Spain were decent
at first.
Phillip even proposed marriage to Elizabeth despite the fact that she 1) wasn’t a close relative 2) didn’t have a giant ponderous chin and 3) was a Protestant. However, this state of affairs didn’t last. Phillip succeeded his father
Charles V
Mega-Chin
as king of Spain and developed an advanced allergy to Protestants. Every second of his life, he had this haunting fear that someone, somewhere was Protestant. Attempts to assuage this constant itch through the timely application of burning heretics were fruitless. Phillip II wanted to destroy every Protestant everywhere. When Elizabeth reinstated the Church settlement of her father and younger brother Edward VI, Phillip was seriously annoyed. He sat there in his cold, monastic office, grinding his giant jaw in frustration.
Elizabeth had more pressing problems than Phillip at first. Scotland, as always, was in turmoil and allied with the treacherous French. Her government was cash strapped. Elizabeth exercised extreme economy in spending and gradually rebuilt some of her grandfather’s massive stash of cash. Then, ever searching for new cash flows,  Elizabeth discovered that selling human beings was highly profitable, even if it involved smuggling them into the Spanish New World over
Spanish objections. Black globalization, as we’ll call it, was born.
Spain, intercepting a fleet of English smugglers,
sunk several English merchant ships . The commander of the fleet,
John Hawkins ,
his cousin
Francis Drake , and their royal mistress, who had quietly invested in their voyages, were infuriated. Elizabeth’s wrath never burned brighter than
when her cash flow was threatened. Elizabeth gave tacit approval to Hawkins and Drake to raid Spanish shipping as privateers. Hawkins was also given the resources to rework the English navy. This policy was profitable (the Queen’s share of Drake’s plunder following his voyage around the world was half of her revenue for that year) but dangerous. The Spanish began plotting with English Catholics to put
Mary the Headless , Queen of Scots, a Catholic and Elizabeth’s captive, on the throne. Elizabeth retaliated by
increasing depredations against Spanish commerce, sending aid to the Dutch Protestants rebelling against Phillip II, and by parting Mary, Queen of Scots from her head, starting something of a trend among Mary’s
Stuart descendants. Phillip decided to end his English problem once and for all and dispatched the dreaded Spanish Armada.
Due to bad weather and some English harassment, the Spanish Armada was unable to achieve its objectives for that campaign season and was forced to circumnavigate the British Isles to return to Spain. In the meantime, Elizabeth, showing her miserly instinct for managing cash flow, stiffed the soldiers and sailors who had manned her forces of their pay. Up to 8,000 hard to replace seamen and soldiers, weakened by malnutrition, died as a result of a typhus outbreak, leaving a skilled manpower deficit that would have serious consequences for the English  campaign the following year.
The core naval forces that Phillip had dispatched had survived the circumnavigation of the British Isles but had only found refuge in the exposed ports of northern Spain at
Coruna ,
Santander , and
San Sebastian . They were badly damaged and undergoing repairs. The English government decided to destroy the ships in harbor, sending Spain’s Atlantic fleet to the bottom of the sea and throwing Spain’s colonies open to the English and their Dutch allies.
Fine sentiment that. Unfortunately, the English high command also decided that the expedition should land in Lisbon to trigger a revolt against the Spanish crown by the Portuguese, seize the Azores, and, if possible, intercept that year’s Spanish treasure fleet fresh in from America loaded with Bolivian silver.
Whew.
So began the
English Armada
of 1589, an ill-fated expedition that threw England into a decline from which it wouldn’t fully emerge until 1759, over one hundred and seventy years later. The expedition was organized as a profit seeking joint-stock company with Elizabeth fronting one quarter, the Dutch one-eighth, and the rest coming from various English noblemen and merchants. The rewards would be the rich pickings from sacking Lisbon, the Azores, and the Spanish treasure fleet. Whether these profit seeking goals conflicted with the major strategic goals was never properly clarified.
The expedition, already weighted down with a complex contradictory
goals, had further ill-luck. Bad weather delayed sailing, the logistics were confused, 1/3 of the food supplies had already been eaten,
the Dutch warships never showed up, and the number of trained soldiers was very small compared to untrained volunteers. Many of the needed veterans had been sent to their graves by Elizabethan parsimony and their absence would be felt. In addition, the English were short of artillery and cavalry.
When they finally sailed, Drake, who was in overall command and perhaps more focused on plunder, bypassed Santander, where most of the Spanish galleons were being refitted, and attacked Coruna instead. The English captured part of the town but were unable to capture its fortified center. While waiting for the winds to change, they wasted time besieging the upper town, which only caused English casualties. There was little plunder except for wine, which was as much an impediment as an advantage. The English then sailed to Lisbon where they found that the Spanish had used the time that the English had spent investing Coruna to buttress the defenses of Lisbon. The disaffected Portuguese failed to rise in
rebellion when the English landed. The English managed to destroy some Spanish naval supplies but the Lisbon garrison refused to come out and fight, Elizabeth refused to send reinforcements, and there was a stalemate. Disease and fighting depleted English manpower so much that Lisbon and the attack on the Azores was abandoned and most of the fleet sailed home. Drake took twenty ships to try to intercept the treasure fleet but was caught in a bad storm and missed his quarry. His ships were so battered that his flagship, the
Revenge , nearly sank.
None of the English Armada’s goals were achieved. Many men, ships, and doubloons had been spent for 3o,ooo pounds worth of plunder. The trip failed to hit its strategic targets and didn’t even make a profit.
Spain was soon able to build a new fleet of English style galleons and re-establish command of the sea. Multiple English attempts to seize the yearly treasure fleet were defeated and Spanish gold and silver shipments during the decade following the defeat of the English Armada were three times larger than during the 1580s. While an English raid on Cadiz destroyed the town, the Spanish torched the treasure fleet and sent their precious metals to the bottom of Cadiz harbor, leaving the English empty-handed and the Spanish able to salvage it later. Most English expeditions failed, including a spectacular failure off Panama in 1595 that killed off Drake and Hawkins. The Spanish were even able to send two more Armadas in 1596 and 1597 but they were defeated by bad weather. The Spanish also fed
rebellions in Ireland
against Elizabeth, which bogged down the English almost as badly in Ireland as the Spanish were bogged down in the Netherlands. Spain was drained by the ongoing war but were better able to afford it than the English with their more modest resources. The English continued to raid Spanish shipping and support the Dutch rebels, which hurt Spain, but, in a war of attrition, time favored the Spanish.
Phillip II died in 1598, never having relieved the world of the burden of heresy, and was succeeded by his son
Phillip III . Elizabeth died in 1603 and was succeeded by
James VI , the Wisest Fool in Christendom, King of Scots. James I quickly negotiated the
Treaty of London
that ended the long war with Spain. England pledged to stop helping the Dutch and refrain from attacking Spanish shipping. Spain recognized England
as a Protestant state with a Protestant king. A
modus vivendi
was achieved among these fine gentlemen.
James I pursued a peaceful policy but was still weighed down from the debts from Elizabeth’s wars, coupled with his own financial incompetence. His son
Charles I , the Headless, also found himself chronically short of funds, which led to a parting of the ways with his Parliament and, eventually, to a parting of his body from
his head. England by that point was so pathetic that the decisive battle that destroyed Spain’s command of the seas, the
Battle of the Downs , was fought by their former Dutch allies right off of England’s coast with England powerless to intervene. England had a burst of power under the enlightened
Oliver Cromwell
in the 1650s but was largely decrepit until the
Dutch Invasion of 1688
brought about a reformation of English institutions along Dutch lines. The English also found a superior basis for their economy in the production and sale of
various
drugs , becoming the world’s most successful narco-state (in Niall Ferguson’s immortal words).
The Spanish had a
resurgence of power . The Spanish Navy was able to control the seas, move treasure across the Atlantic and Pacific, and control trade with its colonies. As the most powerful military power in Europe, Spain was also able to intervene in the Thirty Years War on the side of their Austrian cousins. Spanish power began to ebb in the
mid-sixteenth
mid-seventeenth century but England was not the primary beneficiary. The Dutch emerged from their long war against Spain as the strongest naval power on Earth and successfully seized Portugal’s control of the Indian Ocean and the spice trade. The French defeated the Spanish on land and, with the
Peace of the Pyrenees , became Europe’s dominant land power. This restored things to their proper balance, where England was able to focus on the real enemy: France.
This entry was posted on Sunday, January 24th, 2010 at 5:17 pm					and is filed under
Anglosphere ,
History .
You can follow any responses to this entry through the
RSS 2.0
feed.
Both comments and pings are currently closed.
12 Responses to “The Defeat of the English Armada, the Fall of England, and the Rise of Spain”
chuck
Says:
January 24th, 2010 at 9:44 pm
mid-sixteenth
Mid-seventeenth?
Fat Man
Says:
January 24th, 2010 at 11:35 pm
I bogged down pretty early in this account. Bloody Mary was Henry the 8th’s child. You made it sound like she was Henry’s sister. Further, The real problem was not the Spanish connection, it was that she was a devout Roman Catholic, while her half-siblings, Edward and Elizabeth were protestants. Protestantism was a growing force in England, and Mary was at odds with it. The sobriquet Bloody was a reaction to her persecution of protestant clergymen. The spot where a number of them were burned is still marked in Oxford.
Furthermore Mary Stuart, Elizabeth’s cousin, has not been referred to as “the headless” in my readings. She was executed by decapitation, a privilege of the high nobility. Commoners were hanged.
“So began the English Armada of 1589, an ill-fated expedition that threw England into a decline from which it wouldn’t fully emerge until 1759”
England’s real problem, other than being tiny and poor, was the civil strife set off by competing claims of religion. That was the real ground under the decapitation of Charles I, and the coup-d’etat against his son James II. By the end of the 18th century, England was back in the European game allied with the Dutch and the Austrians against, France which had emerged from the 30 Year’s War (1618-1648, der Dreißigjährige Krieg) as the dominant power in Europe. In the War of the Spanish Succession (1701-1714), English General John Churchill was a important and often victorious player.
The important thing to know about Spain in this time period is that despite the almost infinite treasure they had wrung out of the New World, they finished the 17th Century as bankrupts.
Everyone should read
“The Armada” by Garrett Mattingly .
Joseph Fouche
Says:
January 25th, 2010 at 12:43 am
Spain’s end has been moved into the correct century.
Jim Bennett
Says:
January 25th, 2010 at 12:28 pm
A well-done, amusing think-piece.
And in fact most of the specific points are correct, especially about the Habsburg chins.
Some issues with the interpretation and wighting, however.
1.
The English navy succeeded in its mission and the Spanish navy failed in its, and this was due primarily to English superiority in technology and tactics.
They successfully denied the Spanish fleet the ability to land in England or destroy the English navy as a force in being.
This was not due to the weather, which was actually fine while the Armada was in the Channel.
The weather after the Armada left English waters was responsible for most of the loss and damage to the Armada before its return to Spain.
2.
The failure of the Armada gave England breathing-space in which it could sail the Atlantic unhindered and not have to keep large forces in reserve in English waters against invasion, the factor that had prevented the relief and reinforcement of the Roanoke colony, leading to its failure.
The English used this breathing-space to begin using the North American coast for fishing, building up the fleet and manpower base with familiar with and comfortable sailing American waters.
Remember that when the Pilgrims landed, two Indians came out of the forest and greeted them in fluent English; in fact they had been to England.
It was this experience base that made colonization relatively easy when the economy was ready to support it.
3.
The English used the period from the defeat of the Armada (1588) to the Union with Scotland (1707) to work out solutions to religious diversity, parliamentary governance,
stable currency, internal free markets, application of science to everyday life, modern taxation, debt management, and state financing, and modern capital markets.
These solutions in fact became the basis for modern democratic capitalism and constitutional government.
True, they borrowed and improved some financial institutions from the Dutch, who had borrowed and improved them from the Flemish,
who had borrowed and improved them from the northern Italians.
In the same period of time the Dutch tried and failed to solve the problems of the republican executive, and effective command of military forces in federal systems.
These failures led to their eventual decline, conquest, and imposition of more typically Continental governmental forms under Napoleon.
4.
Following the Armada, England has never seriously been threatened with denial of the oceans.
Following 1701, Britain was the generally prevailing naval power in the Atlantic, until that role eventually passed to their offspring, the Americans.
5. Th limitations on England in the 17th century had the generally beneficial effect of f turning England away from its old obsession with continental adventures, except for the occasional power-balancing effort, and turing its attention into the outer world.
It was in the period between 1588 and the 1750s that England (and after 1707, Britain) laid the groundwork from the subsequent eruption of English-speaking society around the globe.
Michael Kennedy
Says:
January 25th, 2010 at 1:56 pm
Very rarely, outside of medical sources, is disease given much of a role in history. There is speculation that Mary had syphilis and Henry VIII may even have been syphilitic in his later years. The Soviets dug up Ivan the Terrible and showed that he had syphilis. It was ubiquitous in Europe after 1500 and by 1530, one third of the residents of Paris had it. Paracelsus was the first to find a therapy that worked and after his time the saying was “A night with Venus leads to a life with Mercury.” Maybe the Virgin Queen knew something the others didn’t.
Likewise, there is also almost no discussion of the role of typhus in the defeat of Napoleon in Russia. The French Grand Armee had the best medical services in the world with Baron Larrey (They were all vaccinated) but they had never encountered typhus until they entered Poland. Napoleon lost half his army to typhus.
shannon Love
Says:
January 25th, 2010 at 4:03 pm
It is interesting to speculate what might have happened in North America had the English prevailed decisive against the first Spanish Armada.
The history of North America has been defined between the conflict between the New Netherlands in the North and the Commonwealth Colonies of the south.
This state of affairs arose largely because England never succeeded in challenging Holland’s domination of the seas until the late 1700’s. By the time the English rose to parity with the Dutch, the New Netherlands stretched from Hudson Bay to Virginia and was marching West to the Great Lakes and the Ohio River Valley.
Whereas the New Netherlands become a refuge for families and communities seeking freedom from religious freedom from all over Europe, the Commonwealth Colonies attracted mainly individuals desperate to find their fortune in the tobacco and indigo plantations. The New Netherlands became a middle-class society devoted to industry and trade whereas the Colonies became a hierarchal slave owning society based around plantation agriculture. The inherent conflicts of language, culture, economics, slavery, parent nation conflicts and territorial disagreements kept the two strongly divided up until the Early 20th Century.
If the English had decisive defeated the first Spanish Armada or if the English Armada had succeeded, England might have risen to a sea power a century earlier. They might have then completely displaced the Dutch from North America and all of North America might be one giant English speaking Commonwealth.
Speculating about the effects of that kind of super country is even more interesting but would take a lot more time.
Joseph Fouche
Says:
January 25th, 2010 at 5:07 pm
It may be a good thing that England failed to rule the seas in the seventeenth century. The destruction of Spanish seapower would have left Spain’s richer colonies open to exploitation. English focus would have be drawn from the uncertain prospects of North America (outside of the cod banks and fur trade) towards the known prospects of Central and South America. If the English Crown had control of the Silver Mountain of Potosi and the silver mines of northern Mexico, their dependence on Parliament would have vanished. Imagine the Stuarts with the capital to subdue their fractious, uppity subjects. They could have paid for Irish mercenaries and other foreigners to come in and smash the English aristocracy, bringing about a Continental-style autocracy. Instead of letting the Puritans and other Dissenters cross the Atlantic into exile, they might have massacred them in place or driven them onto a continent ravaged by war. The greater wealth would have also given the English the incentive to meddle on the Continent more, intervening in France on the side of the Huguenots on a much greater scale and taking advantage of the interregnum that followed the assassination of Henry IV. France would have been so distracted that it may not have ever intervened in the Thirty Years War, leading Sweden and Austria to come to terms earlier than they did. Germany might have been divided between a Swedish ascendancy and Vienna. Smaller German principalities like, say, Prussia might have found it harder than they did to become the nucleus of a future German state. The mind boggles.
Jim Bennett
Says:
January 25th, 2010 at 5:21 pm
I agree wholeheartedly with the main thesis of Joseph’s comment
— a large stream of American mineral wealth for the Stuarts would have been a disaster for
English constitutional development.
However, I suspect that the later Stuarts would have intervened against the Huguenots, rathe than for them.
Actually, a Germany divided between an Austrian-domiated south and a Swedish-dominated north, with Prussia as a minor power (probably a Swedish satellite) doesn’t sound too bad, though.
Joseph Fouche
Says:
January 25th, 2010 at 8:25 pm
The best history of the Armada I’ve read is
The Confident Hope of a Miracle
by Neil Hanson. Elizabeth does not come out well. Her handling of the fleet that annoyed the Armada after the action effectively destroyed it.
Jim Bennett
Says:
January 25th, 2010 at 9:43 pm
The Hanson book is excellent, particularly if you combine it with N.A.M. Rodger’s Command of the Ocean for wider context.
I particularly like the Hanson for
1.
a sense of what it’s like to be on the right and wrong sides, respectively, of a revolution in military affairs.
Some parts of it are so familiar, like discovering that you haven’t evolved the right tactics and doctrine for exploiting your new weapon systems, or discovering that the rate of fire of your new weapons is so much greater than what you’re used to that you keep running out of ammunition.
2.
an appreciation of medieval constitutionalism in England — like the fact that Elizabeth didn’t actually
declare war against Spain because she didn’t want to have to summon a Parliament and have to negotiate with them,so she tried to do the whole war on the cheap.
Not the best circumstances for discovering that your new weapons systems need much more ammunition than you expected.
I liked the detail
that Elizabeth turned captured Spanish prisoners loose to wander the highways and beg — if England wasn’t at war they were “distressed mariners”, not POWs, and the local parishes were responsible for their upkeep.
3.
Hanson’s interesting point (which I had never heard before) that the reason the Spanish got so panicked by Drake’s fireships at Calais was the “hellburners of Antwerp” episode a few years before,
big honking clockwork-detonated bomb ships that the Dutch floated downstream into Spanish positions, where they detonated with great effect.
Definitely achieved some shock and awe on Parma’s men.
4.
Even after all these centuries, the stories of what happened to the Spanish ships sailing around Scotland and Ireland is still chilling.
The image of the Dutch fishermen coming across the herd of horses in the middle of the North Sea, swimming north after the fleet, now over the horizon, that had jettisoned them, or the Irish tales of
an lang maol , the “bare ship”, driven ashore dismasted, with no survivors — these would make striking visuals.
A great movie could be made of this story, although I cringe to think of how James Cameron would do it.
I read a bit of the Hanson book in the bookstore, including some of the stories about the survivors wrecked in Ireland.
I kept thinking about it, and eventually had to go back and buy the book.
I’m glad I did.
david foster
Says:
January 26th, 2010 at 10:09 am
Somewhat related: Here’s an intelligent Spanish naval official, writing in 1797, with an analysis of why his country’s fleet tended to lose to that of England…
http://photoncourier.blogspot.com/2005_10_01_photoncourier_archive.html#112943359433129395
Michael Kennedy
Says:
January 26th, 2010 at 6:17 pm
That Spanish officer’s comment brings to mind the success of the German army in which the noncoms were able to adjust and adapt to conditions with absolute confidence in their men. They outfought every army they faced from Waterloo on. It seems ironic to me that they were defeated by the Russians with better technology, the T 34 tank.
«
Theory vs Experience, Continued
Afghanistan (Arghandab, etc) links….
»
Chicago Boyz
is powered by
WordPress
|
Adapted from a design by
Andreas Viklund
|
Ported by
Ainslie Johnson