The Raucous Royals
Look & Learn
The Book
The Author
art detectives
Raucous Fun
Get Reading
Raucous Blog
Family Trees
Timelines
Learning Links
Learning Videos
Glossary
Vlad Dracula
Richard III
Henry VIII
Anne Boleyn
Anne of Cleves
Mary Queen of Scots
Elizabeth I
Louis XIV
Peter the Great
Marie Antoinette
Napoleon Bonaparte
Catherine the Great
George III
Eleanor of Aquitaine
Eleonora di Toledo
Mary Queen of Scots VS.
Queen Elizabeth I
Rumor : Mary plotted to assassinate her cousin, Elizabeth I.
People always seem to take sides between Mary and Elizabeth. History usually sees Mary as either;
A.
an innocent and tragic queen cruelly
victimized
by her conniving cousin. or
B.
A silly, little tart who made some bad love choices and foolishly plotted to take down her more level-headed cousin.
Whatever you decide, their story has as much raucous drama as a
good old-fashion, 16th century, Jerry Springer
cat fight.
Elizabeth: Queen of the Sharpest Spades
Elizabeth really had it rough. At the age of three, she lost her mother and her title of princess. At age twenty-one, she was accused of treason by her half sister,
Bloody Mary , and locked in the Tower of London. By age twenty-five, she had escaped all of this drama and was crowned queen of England. Elizabeth was a survivor and she didn’t intend to lose her crown to her upstart cousin.
Mary: Queen of Broken Hearts
Now imagine being a pampered princess, six feet tall, with oodles of good looks and charm and the finest education in the world. You would have a pretty good life, right? Wrong, if you are Mary Queen of Scots. While Elizabeth always kept her head in matters of the heart, Mary’s love life caused a lot of raucousness.
The Rivalry Begins at birth...
In1536,
Henry VIII
had ordered the beheading of Elizabeth's mom,
Anne Boleyn , thereby making Elizabeth illegitimate. An illegitimate child was not typically allowed to become queen or wear any of the fancy jewelry. But Henry liked to make up his own rules. In his will, he restored Elizabeth to her place in line for the English throne. According to the will, Henry’s grandniece, Mary of Scotland, wasn’t even in line. If fact, Henry decreed that she was to never sit her pretty Scottish fanny on an English throne...ever! ( Henry never liked the Scots. )
But
Mary believed that she should be queen because Elizabeth was illegitimate and therefore shouldn’t be prancing around in pearls.
Would Mary stoop so low as to plot to have her cousin killed?
Read the full story and decide for yourself>>
Rivals and Pen Pals
Elizabeth and Mary wrote to each other many times, but never met face-to-face. Their opinions of each other were based mainly on gossip from others. The above painting depicts Mary as a young girl.
The cat fight that ended on the scaffold.
In 1587, Elizabeth signed Mary's death warrant (above) convicting her of treason. Mary was
beheaded at Fotheringhay Castle on February 8, 1587. Mary knew that her execution would shock the rest of the world. At her trial she said, “ Remember that the theatre of the world is wider than the realm of England. ” Elizabeth did not need the warning. She was very aware that Mary's execution would cause the world to choose sides. Ironically, it still does today.
Read more about how Mary and Elizabeth duked it out>>
All content within this site is copyright of Carlyn Beccia