ON THE NOTICE BOARD:
Frassati Men's Weekend Presented by the Catholic Young Adults Office 24-26 August For
Men aged 18-35. Holy Mass, The Divine Office, Clay Bird Shooting, Archery, Sport.
We will discuss the Gospel for Today, Matt10:7-15, available from your Bible,
or www.catholic.org/bible/daily_readings/ This is happening on Thursday 12 July, at
7.30pm, at the meeting room, adjacent to St. Columba Church, Rifle Range Road Hamilton.
Caritas Aotearoa New Zealand  Stop the Hunger Appeal for Sahel (West Africa). The
New Zealand Bishops support Caritas in requesting donations for the unfolding drought in
the Sahel, West Africa, before it turns to famine. Further information can be found on our
website: http://www.caritas.org.nz/where-we-work/emergencies/sahel-drought. You can
phone 0800221022 to make credit card donations, donate online at caritas.org.nz or post a
cheque to Caritas Freepost 689, PO Box 12193, Thorndon, Wellington 6144.
Are you or some you know, expecting a baby? You are invited to entrust mother and baby
to the care of Mary, Mother of Good Hope. Names are entered in our register in the Marist
Laity chapel and prayed for by many Marists every day.
See Church Notice Board for further details
PROLIFE FACTS Legalised Euthanasia  Do we need it? On June 30th many concerned
citizens gathered in Auckland to hear a range of speakers address this question. It is an important
question for New Zealanders to think about because if Maryann Streets private members bill goes
ahead, there is a possibility that New Zealand could ultimately have legalised voluntary euthanasia.
For more information on pro-life issues, visit the Right to Life website: www.righttolife.org.nz.
Headlines from the July 15-28 issue of NZ Catholic: Ex-TV celebrity warns of euthanasia danger.
Cardinal reins in dissenting priests - a little. Sex education criticised as a social movement. Ex-RAF
man travelled to Germany as priest to seek forgiveness.
CELEBRATING 150YRS - THE SISTERS OF OUR LADY OF THE MISSIONS INVITE YOU TO JOIN THEM IN A
MASS OF THANKSGIVING FOR THE 150YRS SINCE THEIR FOUNDATION, AT THE CATHEDRAL OF THE BLESSED
VIRGIN MARY, HAMILTON, 5.30PM - WED, AUG 22ND FOLLOWED BY REFRESHMENTS. ALL WELCOME.

Te Aroha Roster for Next Weekend

Prayers of the Faithful for July: Legion of Mary
Welcome: T McCarthy
Leader: School
Readers: J Mullan, School
Gifts: School
Communion: Team 4
Overhead: V Schrieber
Brass Cleaning: M Christey Flowers: C Finnegan
Church Cleaning: M Muller, P Muller

Readings
This Week
Amos 7:12-15
Ephesians 1:13-14
Gospel: Mark 6:7-13
Next Week
Jeremiah 23:1-6
Ephesians 2:13-18
Gospel: Mark 6:30-34

Office

Priests Residence

224 Whitaker Street Te Aroha
PO Box 234
Ph: 07-884-9477 Fax: 07-884-9476
Email: arohajo@xtra.co.nz
Hours: Tuesdays & Thursdays 9.30am - 3.30pm

64 Willoughby Street Paeroa
PO Box 273
Ph: 07-862-7217 Fax: 07-862-7218
Emergency only - 021 735 351

ST MARYS

ST JOSEPHS

PAEROA
TE AROHA
Parish Priest - Father Aidan Mulholland
Fifteenth Week in Ordinary Time Year B 15th July 2012
What kind of authority and power
does the Lord want us to exercise
on his behalf? Jesus gave his
apostles both the power and the
authority to speak and to act in his
name. He commanded them to do
the works which he did - to cast out
evil spirits, to heal, and to speak the word of God - the good
news of the gospel, which they received from Jesus. When
Jesus spoke of power and authority he did something
unheard of. He wedded power and authority with love and
humility. The "world" and the "flesh" seek power for selfish
gain. Jesus teaches us to use it for the good of our neighbour.
Why does Jesus tell the apostles to "travel light" with little
or no provision? "Poverty of spirit" frees us from greed and
preoccupation with possessions and makes ample room for
God's provision. The Lord wants his disciples to be dependent on him and not on themselves. He wills to work through
and in each of us for his glory. Are we ready to handle the
power and authority which God wishes us to exercise on his
behalf? The Lord entrusts us with his gifts and talents. Are
we eager to place ourselves at his service, to do whatever
he bids us, and to witness his truth and saving power to
whomever he sends us?
"Lord, make me a channel of your grace and healing
love, that others may find life and freedom in you. Free me
from all other attachments, that I may joyfully pursue the
things of heaven. May I witness the joy of the gospel,
both in word and deed."
Mass Times: Saturday 21stJuly 7.00pm Paeroa
Sunday 22ndJuly 10.00am Te Aroha

Te Aroha
Mass Times:
Monday Tuesday and
Thursday at 9.00am
2nd and 4th Sunday
at 10.00am
1st 3rd and 5th Sunday
on Saturday at 7.00pm

Confession:
Thursday at 9.30am
or by appointment

Adoration:
After Mass on
Thursdays

2nd Sunday 2.30pm

Paeroa
Mass Times:
Wednesday Friday and
Saturday at 9am
1st 3rd and 5th Sunday
at 10.00am
2nd and 4th Sunday
on Saturday at 7.00pm

Confession:
Saturday at 9.30am or
by appointment

Adoration:
After Mass on Fridays

St Josephs Te Aroha
Combined Church Service - Sunday 15 July, 10.30am at Baptist Church (old
Power Board Building). A plate would be appreciated.
Cuppa for a Cause Alzheimers Fundraiser
Wednesday 18th July 9.30 - 11.30am at Kenwyn Resthome & Hospital
$2.00 - Beverage and a piece of homemade baking.
Our Lady of Mount Carmel is the title given to the Blessed
Virgin Mary in her role as patroness of the Carmelite Order.
"The Feast of Our Lady of Mount Carmel (16th July) is known to
many Catholic faithful as the "scapular feast," associated with
the Brown Scapular of Our Lady of Mount Carmel. A tradition
first attested to in the late 14th century says that Saint Simon
Stock, an early prior general of the Carmelite Order, had a
vision of the Blessed Virgin Mary in which she gave him the
Brown Scapular which formed part of the Carmelite habit,
promising that those who died wearing the scapular would be
saved. The Carmelites see in the Blessed Virgin Mary a perfect
model of the interior life of prayer and contemplation to which Carmelites aspire, a model
of virtue, as well as the person who was closest in life to Jesus Christ. She is seen as the
one who points Christians most surely to Christ, saying to all what she says to the servants
at the wedding at Cana, "Do whatever he [Jesus] tells you." Carmelites look to Mary as
both a Spiritual Mother and Sister in Christ.
Father Aidan wishes to advise that as he is away next week
Father Alex from Tauranga will supply for him.
Dove Catholic Fellowship for Women Retreat 2012
Speaker Elissa Macpherson
Lavish Gifts, Extravagant Love!
How beautiful you are, my darling! Oh, how beautiful!
Your eyes are doves. Song of Songs 1:15 NIV
Willow Park, Auckland 14 - 16 September, All women welcome.
Contact Raewyn Brew 07 8568321 or email brewfamily@clear.net.nz
Brochures and registration forms available in church foyer.
Registration can also be made through www.dove.org.nz
B.O.P. Dove will meet on Saturday, 28 July at 1pm to 3.30pm.
Theme: - Indescribable  You are amazing, God. Scriptures: John 1:5 and
Genesis 1:14-18. Please invite a friend and feel welcome to come along
early to have a cup of tea. Enquiries: Kay  07 578 3743 or 027 380 8287.

St Marys Paeroa
All parishioners are invited to a cup of tea in the Parish
lounge after Mass this morning.
Ohinemuri Home Sunday Service Today. It is our turn to take this Service
today, Sunday, 15 July at 4pm. All welcome.
The Great Adventure Bible Study continues on Saturday mornings in St
Marys Church Lounge. Mass is at 9am followed by morning tea and then
the study programme. All welcome. Contact Maurice Smith on 862 4962.

Pope Benedict XVI has called for a YEAR OF FAITH for all Catholics to live to the
full, beginning 11 October 2012. Pope Benedict also wants us to become better
acquainted with the Catechism of the Catholic Church which is twenty years old
this year also. A series of Masses and workshops is planned so that we will have
the opportunity to discover again the teaching of the Second Vatican Council and
make it part of our daily lives as we respond to the Holy Spirit working in our lives.
Bishop Denis Browne has asked us to prepare by taking part in this opportunity
which is called Joy & Hope ...the opening words of the Constitution known

as The Church in the Modern World and he asks us to join with him in
praying, that this exercise of discovering again the richness of Gods love
for us, will be blessed abundantly.
A four part series in preparation for the Year of Faith will commence on
Sunday 29 July in our Parish as follows:
Launch Mass: Sunday 29 July 10am at Paeroa (to be celebrated by Bishop
Denis Browne)
Sacrosanctum/Dei Verbum: Tuesday 31st July 7pm at Paeroa
Lumen Gentium: Tuesday 7th August 7pm at Paeroa
Gaudium Et Spes: Tuesday 14th August 7pm at Paeroa
Caring Sunday - Catholic Care envelopes will be included with the newsletter
next week. The Catholic Care Foundation supports the grassroots organizations that
serve those in our community who need the very basics of life - food, shelter and
clothing - and to ensure children are given a strong foundation for the future. All
gifts, no matter how small, make a difference.
I believe in Christianity as I believe that the sun has risen,
not only because I see it, but because by it I see everything else. (C. S. Lewis)

