Ring Around The Rosary, We All Stand Together | Mark Armstrong Freelance Humorous Illustration for Marketing Communication Editorial and Social Media
Skip to content
Mark Armstrong Freelance Humorous Illustration for Marketing Communication Editorial and Social Media
I create images that get brand content seen and shared.
Home
About
Ring Around The Rosary, We All Stand Together
March 16, 2011
tags:
Bible ,
brotherhood ,
cartoon ,
Catholic ,
charity ,
children ,
Christian ,
cross ,
education ,
faith ,
globe ,
Holy Childhood Association ,
kids ,
missions ,
photo-illustration ,
rosary ,
school ,
Scripture
Every January, I get an annual assignment from the
Holy Childhood Association .
The
HCA
encourages Catholic school children to help less fortunate children in foreign mission countries. The
HCA
asks me to do a campaign theme illustration. The theme for the upcoming 2011-12 school year is
“We must love each other.” (1 John 4:7)
Here’s the final illustration.
Scroll down
to see how it was put together.
I submitted six ideas. The client chose my concept of a heart-shaped
World Mission Rosary
encircling the globe. They approved the rough with no changes. Here’s the
original B&W sketch :
I decided to incorporate certain
photographic elements
into the final to give objects like the
rosary
a more credible look. I found a nice close-up of the principal parts of a rosary (crucifix, centerpiece, beads, chain links). I applied Photoshop’s
Unsharp Mask
filter, and
Curves
and
Brightness/Contrast
color adjustments to sharpen the photo. Then I used the
Pen
tool to select the pieces I would need.
The extracted centerpiece showed an image of the
Sacred Heart of Jesus . The client had given me a photo of a World Mission Rosary which showed the
Virgin Mary
on the centerpiece. So I converted the one to the other.
You can see how I did it in this previous post .
I found some heart-shaped beads on
Stock.XCHNG . I applied the above-mentioned filter and color adjustments to sharpen the image and get rid of a yellowish tinge. I used the
Pen
tool to extract the best looking beads. To get the other three colors I needed (blue, yellow, green), I simply copied the white (clear) beads and applied a
Hue/Saturation
color adjustment (reminder: you have to check the
Colorize
box in the Hue/Saturation display window).
I decided to build the final on top of the approved rough. I copied and pasted in the beads. After much trial and error, I arrived at the heart-shaped configuration shown below. I also
changed the orientation
of the shorter segment of the rosary (which
ends with the crucifix), curving it toward the text. This strengthened the design.
Next, I copied and pasted in the previously extracted bits of chain, using them to link
all the beads, the centerpiece and the crucifix. Yes, sometimes “creative” work becomes painstaking and somewhat laborious…  : )
I found a nice globe image, but I didn’t like the 3-D effect with the land masses protruding above the globe’s “water edge.” I saw other problems as well. I decided to copy the globe and
rebuild it . I used the
Pen
tool to simplify the land masses a bit more. I redrew the
British Isles , since they looked completely wrong. I shrunk
Greenland
and modified the overall color scheme.
For the cross, I started with an image on
Stock.XCHNG . I selected the white cross,
filled it with gold-yellow, and outlined it with a black stroke. I used the
Line
tool to
add additional inside lines, and a second darker yellow to give the cross some depth.
I used the
Circular Gradient
tool to apply more white and boost the reflected light on the globe. Then I merged the cross onto the globe, and pasted it into the main rosary image.
I did the
two sets of kids
separately, doing the line drawings by hand, then adding
the color in
Photoshop . I lifted the plaids from photos (coats, dresses), then pasted
them in on separate layers to create the girls’ school uniforms.
Then I pasted the kids into the main image.
Final steps: Use the
Text
tool to enter the text. Add a
soft stroke of blue
beneath
the white (clear) rosary beads to make them more visible. Add a
drop shadow
to the globe to give it some depth. (I used a simple brushstroke.) Use the
Hue/Saturation
color adjustment tool to change the yellow rosary beads to a less garish “orange-gold.” (This also prevents their printing with a greenish tinge.) Here’s the final again.
Share this post: Tweet Facebook Google LinkedIn Tumblr Pinterest Reddit Email More Print Twitter Like this: Like
Loading...
Related
from →
illustration ,
photoshop tutorial ,
religion
← Chrome, Chrome On The Range
Leprechaun Trauma: Wrong Pot, Bad Shock →
4 Comments
leave one →
fryupress
permalink
March 16, 2011 1:36 PM
Absolutely brilliant! I must try something like this. Keep up the tutorial posts please.
Reply
Mark Armstrong
permalink *
March 16, 2011 7:54 PM
Thanks, Ann. Glad you’re finding the posts helpful, and I appreciate your emphatic support!
: )
Reply
cyn
permalink
March 22, 2011 8:54 AM
I loved the walkthrough. I’m photoshop-useless but it’s still interesting to see the thought that goes into these works that often look so effortless. Well done on redrawing the UK/GB. Not that we dislike the Irish, but we’d be bloody irritated if they crashed their island onto the mainland (which is what it looks like in the original).
Reply
Mark Armstrong
permalink *
March 22, 2011 9:50 PM
Always happy to perform a little cartographic surgery. I frown on island crashing, though I’m willing to make an exception for Robinson Crusoe… : )
Many thanks for the kind words, sir!
Reply
Care to comment? I'd love to have your thoughts.
Cancel reply
Enter your comment here...
Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:
Email
(required)
(Address never made public)
Name
(required)
Website
You are commenting using your WordPress.com account.
(  Log Out  /  Change  )
You are commenting using your Twitter account.
(  Log Out  /  Change  )
You are commenting using your Facebook account.
(  Log Out  /  Change  )
You are commenting using your Google+ account.
(  Log Out  /  Change  )
Cancel
Connecting to %s
Notify me of new posts via email.
Hot Off  The Press
Still Warm
Cooled Down
From The Fridge
Birthday Clock Caricatures
Photo-Illustrations
Get Updates
Enter your email address to follow Mark Armstrong Illustration and get notified of new posts by email.
Follow @mrstrongarm
Recent Posts
16 Things I Learned From Fortune Cookies
15 Tips On How To Build A Network By Leaving Comments That Add Value
And Lo– A Miracle In The Desert
The Tomato Effect: It Won’t Work Because It Won’t Work
To Sleep, Perchance To Read
Using Illustrated Quotes To Promote Your Brand On Social Media
How To Create A Twitter Header Image That Doesn’t Get Mangled
Frankie & Annette Catch A Wi-Fi Wave
A Brief Illustrated Guide To Childhood
Don’t Settle For A Still Life
Blog at WordPress.com .
The Vigilance Theme .
Follow
Follow “Mark Armstrong Freelance Humorous Illustration for Marketing Communication Editorial and Social Media”
Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.
Join 16,684 other followers
Build a website with WordPress.com
Send to Email Address
Your Name
Your Email Address
Cancel
Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
%d
bloggers like this: