Myth Blaster: The Shroud of Turin | Veritas et Theologium
Pages
Home
I have always imagined that Paradise would be a kind of library . Jorge Luis Borges So have I become your enemy by telling you the truth? Saint John , Letter to
Galatians 4:16
Freedom of Religion - Freedom from Religion - Freedom of Public Display of Religion and Traditions
We establish no religion in this country, nor will we ever. We command no worship. We mandate no belief. But we poison our society when we remove its theological underpinnings. We court corruption when we leave it bereft of belief. All are free to believe or not believe; all are free to practice a faith or not. But those who believe must be free to speak of and act on their belief . --
Ronald Reagan ( Temple Hillel Speech, 1984 )
Tuesday, August 3, 2010
Myth Blaster: The Shroud of Turin
Author:
Keith Lehman
at
12:12 PM
Subject Labels:
Church History ,
Early Christianity ,
Early Church ,
Holy Roman Catholic Church ,
Joseph of Aramathea ,
Knights Templar ,
Legend ,
Mythology ,
Shroud of Turin
Myth Blaster Verdict :
Overall,
undetermined , but so far indisputably authentic as the following will
explain. Personal research shows that there is more accurate information
that proves the Shroud’s authenticity than those who have been trying
to disapprove it; and because of this, I believe it is up to the
skeptics to disapprove the authenticity because those who have
investigated the Shroud through the scientific process should not have
to prove anything further. The fact that the Shroud is an natural image
of a crucifixion victim is without question – the only question that may
remain by skeptics is if it is truly the Jesus of Nazareth that changed
the western world, inspired a new religion that developed into the most
powerful Church organization in world history. Personally, I believe it is the real thing. There is more evidence to its authenticity than not.
In
George Every 's book,
Christian Mythology
(1970), he writes about the
Creation ,
the Flood ,
the Fall ,
Cain and Abel , evaluates the
biblical passage
“ Sons of God and Daughters of Men ",
Tower of Babel ,
Creation in the New Testament ,
Babylon ,
New Jerusalem , the
Place of the Skull ,
Sacrifice of Isaac ,
Melchizedek ,
Legend of the Cross , the
Christian views concerning Hell ,
Figures of Christ ,
Virgin Mary ,
Lives of saints
( Acts of the Apostles ,
Paul and Thecla ,
St. Peter
and
Simon Magus ,
Foundation stories ,
Martyrs ,
Chivalry
and the
Holy Grail ,
St. Francis
and
Dante ;
Visions of the Afterlife . In the last chapter, George Every explains the “ Necessity of Mythology ”.
Nowhere is there mention of the Shroud of Turin, despite his detailed
writings of his study concerning accepted tales and manuscripts that
has become part of the Gospels, yet not included in the canonical Bible
established by the Church, he didn’t write about the Shroud of Turin.  Because I trust Mr. Every’s works on the subject of mythical tales
within the traditions of Christianity and his considered honesty and
expertise, despite being a member of the Church, when it comes to
history – the absence of the
Shroud of Edessa /Turin is not a hoax;
otherwise he would have included it in his writings concerning myths.
Unfortunately in other writings I have found no mention of the Shroud –
even in his histories of Byzantine period, where records have been found
mentioning the Shroud.
If you
Google
the “ Shroud of Turin ” on the Internet, you will not want for finding links concerning this long discussed controversial piece of linen.
What is the
Shroud of Turin ?
Wikipedia : The Shroud of
Turin
(or
Turin
Shroud)
is a linen cloth bearing the hidden image of a man who appears to have
been physically traumatized in a manner consistent with crucifixion. It
is kept in the royal chapel of the
Cathedral of Saint John the Baptist
in
Turin ,
Italy .
It is believed by many, though widely contested, to be a cloth worn by
Jesus Christ at the time of his burial, two days prior to his alleged
resurrection.
The image on the shroud is much clearer in
black-and-white negative than in its natural sepia color. The striking
negative image was first observed on the evening of
May 28, 1898
on the reverse photographic plate of amateur photographer
Secondo Pia
who was allowed to photograph it while it was being exhibited in the
Turin
Cathedral. According to Pia, he almost dropped and broke the
photographic plate from the shock of seeing an image of a person on it.
The
shroud is the subject of intense debate among some scientists, people
of faith, historians, and writers regarding where, when, and how the
shroud and its images were created. From a religious standpoint, in 1958
Pope Pius XII approved of the image in association with the Roman
Catholic devotion to the
Holy Face of Jesus , celebrated every year on
Shrove Tuesday .
Some believe the shroud is the cloth that covered Jesus when he was
placed in his tomb and that his image was recorded on its fibers at or
near the time of his alleged resurrection. Skeptics, on the other hand,
contend the shroud is a medieval hoax, forgery, or the result of natural
processes that are not yet understood. …
Radiocarbon dating in 1988
by three independent teams of scientists yielded results published in
Nature indicating that the shroud was made during the
Middle Ages ;
approximately 1,300 years after Jesus lived. Follow-up analysis
published in 2005, however, indicated that the sample dated by the teams
was taken from an area of the shroud that was not a part of the
original cloth.
The Physical Description : The “Man of the Shroud” has a beard, mustache, and
shoulder-length hair parted in the middle. He is muscular and tall (6 ft
2 in)). For a man
of the first century (the time of Jesus’ death), or of the Middle Ages
(the time of the first uncontested report of the shroud’s existence and
the proposed time of a possible forgery), these figures present an
above-average height. Reddish brown stains that have been said to
include whole blood are found on the cloth, showing various wounds that
correlate with the yellowish image, the pathophysiology of crucifixion,
and the Biblical description of the
death of Jesus :
- one wrist bears a large, round wound, apparently from piercig (the second wrist is hidden by the folding of the hands);
-
upward gouge in the side penetrating into the thoracic cavity, a
post-mortem as indicated by separate components of red blood cells and
serum draining from the lesion;
- small punctures around the forehead and scalp;
- scores of linear wounds on the torso and legs claimed to be consistent with the distinctive dumbbell wounds of a Roman
flagrum ;
- swelling of face from severe beatings;
-
streams of blood down both arms that include dripping from the main
flow in response to gravity at an angle that would occur during
crucifixion;
- no evidence of either leg being fractured;
- large puncture wounds in the feet as if pierced by a single spike.
Other
physical characteristics of the shroud include the presence of large
water stains, and from a fire in 1532, burn holes and scorched areas
down both sides of the linen due to contact with molten silver that
burned through it in places where it was folded. Some small burn holes
that apparently are not from the 1532 even are also present. In places,
there are permanent creases due to repeated foldings, such as the line
that is evident below the chin of the image. … Image analysis by scientists at the Jet Propulsion
Laboratory found that rather than being like a photographic negative,
the image unexpectedly has the property of decoding into a 3-D image of
the man when the darker parts of the image are interpreted to be those
features of a man that were closest to the shroud and the lighter areas
of the image those features that were farthest. This is not a property
that occurs in photography, and researchers could not replicate the
effect when they attempted to transfer similar images using techniques
of block print, engravings, a hot statue, and bas-relief.
The perceived history before the 14 th
century : According to the
Gospel of John
( John 20:5-7 ), the Apostle Peter and the “beloved disciple” entered the sepulcher of Jesus, shortly after his
resurrection – of which they were still unaware – and found the “linen
clothes” that had wrapped his body and “the napkin, that was about his
head.”
There are numerous reports of Jesus’ burial shroud, or an
image of his head, of unknown origin, being venerated in various
locations before the fourteenth century. However, none of these reports
has been connected with certainty to the current cloth held in the
Turin
cathedral. Except in the
Image of Edessa , none of the reports of these (up to 43) different “true shrouds” was known to mention an image of a body. The image of
Edessa
was reported to contain the image of the face of Jesus and its
existence is reported since the sixth century. Some have suggested a
connection between the Shroud of
Turin
and the Image of
Edessa . … Proponents of the theory that the
Edessa
image was actually the shroud, led by
Ian Wilson , theorize that it was always folded in such a way as to show only the face.
Three principal pieces of evidence are cited in favor of the identification with the shroud.
John of Damascene
mentions the image in his anti-iconoclastic work On Holy Images,
describing the Edessa image as being a “strip”, or oblong cloth, rather
than a square, as other accounts of the Edessa cloth hold. …
On the occasion of the transfer of the cloth to
Constantinople
in 944, Gregory Referendarius, archdeacon of
Hagia Sophia
in
Constantinople , preached a sermon about the artifact.
This sermon has been lost, but was rediscovered in the
Vatican Archives
and translated by
Mark Guscin
in 2004. This sermon says that this
Edessa
cloth contained not only the face, but a full-length image, which was
believed to be of Jesus. … Other documents have since been found in the
Vatican library
and the
University of Leiden . … (Cf. Codex Vossianus Latinus Q69 and Vatican Library Codex 5996, p. 35.)
In 1203, a
Crusader knight
named
Robert de Clari
claims to have seen the cloth in Constantinople: “ Where
there was the Shroud in which our Lord had been wrapped, which every
Friday raised itself upright so one could see the figure of our Lord on
it .” After the
Fourth Crusade , in 1205, the following letter was sent by
Theodore Angelos , a nephew of one of three
Byzantine Emperors
who were deposed during the Fourth Crusade,
Pope Innocent III
protesting the attack on the capital. From the document, dated
1 August 1205 :
“The Venetians partitioned the treasures of gold, silver, and ivory
while the French did the same with the relics of the saints and the most
sacred of all, the linen in which our Lord Jesus Christ was wrapped
after his death and before the resurrection. We know that the sacred
objects are preserved by their predators in
Venice , in
France , and in other places, the sacred line in
Athens .” (Codex Chartularium Culisanense, fol. CXXVI (copia),
National Library Palermo ). …
Some historians suggest that the shroud was captured by the knight
Otto de la Roche , who became
Duke of Athens , but that he soon relinquished it to the
Knights Templar . It was subsequently taken to
France , where the first known keeper of the
Turin
Shroud had links both to the Templars as well as the descendants of Otto. …
The known provenance of the cloth now stored in Turin dates to 1357, when the widow of the French knight
Geoffroi de Charny
(said to be a descendant of Templar
Geoffroy de Charney
who was burned at the stake with
Jacques de Molay ) had it displayed in a church at Lirey, France (diocese of Troyes). In the Museum
Cluny
in
Paris , the coats of arms of this knight and his widow can be seen on a pilgrim medallion, which also shows an image of the Shroud of
Turin . …
In 1389, the image was denounced as a fraud by Bishop Pierre D'Arcis in a letter to the Avignon
Antipope
Clement VII , mentioning that the image had previously been denounced by his predecessor
Henri de Poitiers , who had been concerned that no such image was mentioned in scripture. …
Despite the pronouncement of Bishop D’Arcis, Antipope Clement VII (first antipope of the
Western Schism )
prescribed indulgence for pilgrimages to the shroud, so that veneration
continued, though the shroud was not permitted to be styled the “True
Shroud.” Alternate Origin :
The Second Messiah
by
Christopher Knight
and
Robert Lomas
argues that the Shroud’s image is that of the final Knights Templar leader,
Jacques de Molay .
On Friday, 13 October 1307, the Templars were arrested by
Philip the Fair
under the authority of
Pope Clement V .
De Molay was nailed to a door and tortured but not killed, and his
almost comatose body was wrapped in a cloth and left for 30 hours to
recover. According to the hypothesis of Dr. Alan A. Mills in his article
“Image formation on the Shroud of Turin”, in Interdisciplinary Science
Reviews, 1995, vol. 20 No 4, pp 319-326, convection currents from the
lactic acid in de Molay's perspiration created the image. The image
corresponds to what would have been produced by a volatile chemical if
the intensity of the color change were inversely proportional to the
distance of the cloth from the body, and the slightly bent position for
the extension of the hands onto the thighs, something not possible if
the body had been laid flat.
Further, according to Knight and Lomas,
de Molay, and co-accused Geoffroy de Charney, were then cared for by
Brother Jean de Charney, whose family retained the shroud after
de Molay’s execution
on
19 March 1314 .
The Historical Trail of the Shroud:
This story is much like a Sherlock Holmes mystery, and in fact, that
is just what historians must be – investigators of historical events to
piece together what actually happened. What historians do know is the
following trace of the shroud of
Jesus of Nazareth , known as The Christ:
The history of the Shroud actually begins at the time of Jesus the Christ’s death, as related by passages in the
New Testament
by those who were actually there, starting from the
Book of Matthew
…
Joseph of Arimathea , who was a follower of Jesus and his teachings [ Matthew 27:57 ], and went to
Pontius Pilate
to request the body of Jesus. Pilate then commanded that the body be
delivered to Joseph of Arimathaea [ Matthew 27:59 ]. Jesus’ body was taken
to a new tomb “ hewn out in the rock: and he rolled a great stone to the door of the sepulcher, and departed ”.
[ Matthew 27:60 ] The chief priests and Pharisees, who had orchestrated
the death of Jesus, went to Pontius Pilate and stated that because of
what Jesus had said about rising from the grave after three days and to
prevent his disciples stealing his body so that the people would think
this occurred, requested that the tomb be secured. [ Matthew 27:62-64 ]
Pilate agreed and sent guards to ensure that this did not occur and
instructed the chief priests to seal the stone and “set” the watch.
[ Matthew 27:65-66 ]
Mary Magdalene
and
Mother Mary
arrived:  In the end of the Sabbath, as it began to dawn toward the
first day of the week
... to visit the Sepulcher and Jesus’ tomb. [ Matthew
28:1 ]
It is then the earth trembles and an
angel of the Lord
descended from heaven and rolled back the stone from the sepulcher doorway, and sat upon the stone. [ Matthew 28:2 ]
Those watching the tomb became fearful to the point of panic and the angel said to the women [ Matthew 28: 5-8 ] Fear not ye: for I know that ye seek Jesus, which was crucified.
He is not here: for he is risen, as he said. Come, see the place where
the Lord lay. And go quickly, and tell his disciples that he is risen
from the dead; and, behold, he goeth before you into
Galilee ;
there shall ye see him: lo, I have told you. And they departed quickly
from the sepulcher with fear and great joy; and did run to bring his
disciples word. … In the
Book of Mark , his recollection is a bit more detailed (after the body was procured by
Joseph of Arimathaea
[ Mark 15:46 ,
Mark 16:1 ,
Mark 16:4-5 ] … And he bought fine linen, and took him down, and wrapped him in
the linen, and laid him in a sepulchre which was hewn out of a rock, and
rolled a stone unto the door of the sepulchre. And Mary Magdalene and
Mary the mother of Jesus beheld where he was laid. And when the Sabbath
was past, Mary Magdalene, and Mary the mother of James, and Salome, had
bought sweet spices, that they might come and anoint him.
[They proceed to the tomb]
And
when looked, they saw that the stone was rolled away: for it was very
great. And entering into the sepulchre, they saw a young man sitting on
the right side, clothed in a long white garment; and they were
affrighted.
Luke’s version is more concise and also mentions the spices that were
customarily rubbed (anointed) on the decease’s body – an important
element in this investigation.
In the
Book of John , we find the gist of the story the same with some difference [ John 20:1 - ]: The first day of the week cometh Mary Magdalene early, when it was
yet dark, unto the sepulchre, and seeth the stone taken away from the
sepulchre. Then she runneth, and cometh to Simon Peter, and to the other
disciple [I] ,
whom Jesus loved, and saith unto them, They have taken away the Lord
out of the sepulchre, and we know not where they have laid him. Peter
therefore went forth, and that other disciple, and came to the
sepulchre. So they ran both together: and the other disciple did outrun
Peter, and came first to the sepulchre. And he stooping down, and
looking in, saw the linen clothes lying; yet he went he not in. The linen clothes include the shroud, where next we find in historical documents appears in 544 AD, in the city of
Edessa , a folded burial cloth that has an image of a man described in the
Wikipedia
text above, believed to be Jesus of Nazareth, found according to records above a gate in a city wall of Edessa.
On August 15, 944 AD, the Image of Edessa was taken from Edessa to the
Byzantine Empire’s
capital city of Constantinople (today called
Istanbul ). An accurate description is given about the cloth, complete with bloodstains in the following sources:
A sermon by Gregory,
archdeacon
and
referendarius
of
Hagia Sophia Cathedral
given August 16, 944.
A Greek ceremonial text written in 960.
A text by
Nicholas Mesarites , the overseer of the imperial relic treasury in Constantinople in 1201.
A letter by the crusader knight,
Robert de Clari
in 1203.
Documents found in the
Vatican library
and the University of Leiden, Netherlands, confirming this impression. Here is the Latin script description from
Codex Vossianus Latinus Q69
and Vatican Library Codex 5696, p. 35:
Non tantum faciei figuram sed totius corporis figuram cernere poteris .
You can see [not only] the figure of a face, but [also] the figure of the whole body.
In an
1192 codex , illustrations can be found in the
Hungarian Pray Manuscript
that shows Jesus being prepared for burial and the scene of the empty
tomb. The drawing depicts several features that follow the image on the
Shroud of Turin – including Jesus depicted naked with his hand crossed
with no visible thumbs. The reason why in the Shroud’s image there are
no thumbs is because forensic pathologists state that if nails are
driven through the wrist it forces the thumbs to fold inward into the
palms. This aspect of the image, along with the five drawings in the
Hungarian Prayer Manuscript , was also one of the reasons why those, like
the
anti-pope
and others stated that it was a fake image because
Christian tradition (mythology) and, indeed, many drawings, sketches and
paintings show Christ on the cross with nails through his palms. In
historical reality and according to Roman records, part of the
crucifixion process was nailing the wrists to the wooden cross – not the
palms. The other similarity between the Shroud of Turin and the
Hungarian manuscript is that there is a mark on Jesus’ forehead where
the most visible bloodstain is found on the forehead on the shroud.
Another exactness of the drawings and the actual shroud – it shows the
unusually long fingers of the person whose image is on the cloth. And
last, there are four holes drawn on the cloth of the shroud, which are
called “poker holes”. These poker holes are burn holes, just as if a hot
poker was plunged through the cloth when it was folded. No one knows
how or why they are there. Because a painted copy shows the burn holes,
it did not occur in the
Chambéry fire of 1532 .
Some believe it was an accidental burn caused by coals from burning
incense, for example. These burn holes are significant because the
Hungarian Pray Manuscript , ca 1192-1195 AD shows the burn holes.
In 1024, French and Venetian knights of the Fourth Crusade besieged and on April 13 th
entered the city and looted it. Apparently among the treasures the
Edessa Image cloth was taken by the looting knights. Knights were
instructed by the Pope to take and safeguard any holy artifact they
would find in their travels.
One year later, after Constantinople fell,
Theodore Ducas Anglelos , in a letter to
Pope Innocent III
wrote: The Venetians partitioned the treasure of gold, silver and ivory,
while the French did the same with the relics of saints and the most
sacred of all, the linen in which our Lord Jesus Christ was wrapped
after His death and before the resurrection. There were many sacred objects obtained and preserved in Venice, France and in other parts of Europe.
In 1207,
Nicholas d'Orrante ,
the abbot of Casole and the Papal legate in Athens, wrote about relics
taken from Constantinople by French knights and referred to a cloth that
was seen “ with our own eyes ” in Athens.
At this time the historical trail of the Image of Edessa disappears.
Then, in 1356,
Geoffrey de Charny , a French knight and descendant of a
famous knight of the Fourth Crusade, displayed a burial shroud that he
claimed to be the burial cloth of Christ. That shroud is now called the
Shroud of Turin .
Another interesting historical fact – images/paintings of Christ in
full frontal view didn’t appear until after the discovery of the Shroud
found in Edessa. The painting
Christ
Pantocrator Icon
painted on the walls of
St. Catherine’s Monastery
in
the Sinai. Photographs of the painting and the Shroud facial image were
taken, and then grid lines were added in order to compare the facial
features. Then without the gridlines, the photos were superimposed as
shown to the left. It was found that they matched.
In the
Hymn of the Pearl , within the
Acts of Thomas , there are lines of poetry that was translated by
M.R. James : But suddenly, [when] I saw the garment made like unto me as it had been a mirror.
And I beheld upon it all myself (or saw it wholly in myself) and I knew and say myself through it.
that we were divided asunder, being of one; and again were one in one shape.
Yea, the treasurers also which brought me the garment
I beheld, that they were two, yet one shape was upon both, one royal sign was set upon both of them.
The
forensic pathological examination
of the cloth is most interesting and revealing. The person whose image
is believed to be Jesus of Nazareth has been beaten and scourged (burned
with some heated instrument). Then there are the wounds of crucifixion.
Pathologists who examined the cloth agree that the man was in a state of
rigor mortis . The man of the shroud was flogged repeatedly and the marks are from a Roman flagrum or
flagellum ,
which was a whip of short leather thongs that were tipped with bits of
lead, bronze or bone, which tore into the flesh of the victim – meant to
cause wounds and serious pain. Welts and contusions shaped like
dumbbells appear on the man’s back, buttocks, and legs – and it appears
that he was whipped by two men, one taller than the other, each standing
on either side of the victim. The thorn of crowns that has been known
in the story of the
last hours of Christ
would have produced some cut marks, thus the explanation of numerous
puncture wounds around the top of the man’s head. However, the “crown”
seems to have been a rough bunch of thorns, rather than a wreath-shaped
crown as depicted in so many artistic recreations.
The man suffered from a beating and falling – a severely bruised left
kneecap, a dislocated nasal cartilage, a large swelling near the right
eye socket and cheekbone. The man of the Shroud was definitely crucified
with large spikes driven through his wrists. Despite all the images of
Christ on the Cross showing his palms pierced with nails – this is not
only historically incorrect, but medically impossible. The body’s weight
could not possibly bear a man whose hands were nailed – even if the
person’s feet were nailed or supported with a board. The crucifixion
method has been established by archaeologists in 1968 when they
discovered a victim of crucifixion near Jerusalem at Givat ha-Mivtar.
The stains on the cloth that appear to be blood have been tested and
are blood stains of real human blood. However, doubters, despite
laboratory testing proving it is human blood, claim that the bloodstains
should be black, yet the bloodstains on the Shroud are dark red. The
following is explanations:
Ancient cloth, as it was manufactured in the
Middle East
during the first century, was starched on the loom and then washed in
suds of the Soapwart plant. Ingredients of this natural soap are
hemolytic, which could preserve the color red in bloodstains.
The blood on the Shroud
is rich in bilirubin, a bile
pigment produced when a human body is under severe traumatic stress.
Bilirubin is bright red and stays red and will cause old blood to remain
red in color .
Alan Adler, a professor of chemistry at Western Connecticut State
University and an expert on prophyrins, the types of colored compounds
seen in blood chlorophyll and many other natural products, concluded
that the blood is real.
Alder and John Heller, Professor of Life Sciences at the New
England Institute, published their conclusions that the bloodstains were
genuine in the peer-reviewed scientific journal
Applied Optics
[1980]. They reported spectral analysis confirmed that the heme was converted into its parent porphyrin.
Baima Bollone , working independently also found the heme porphyrin and globulin in flakes of blood from Shroud samples.
X-ray-fluorescence spectra showed excess iron in blood areas, as expected for blood.
Microchemical tests for proteins were positive in the bloodstains but not in any other parts of the Shroud.
In 1988, a piece of the shroud was dated using the
Carbon 14
method that revealed that the piece of cloth from the Shroud was made in the medieval period. Yet, the image is in
3-D , impossible to recreate by painting an image on cloth.
At the site entitled
Rethinking the Shroud ,
it discusses the messed up carbon-14 testing done in 1988 – and an
ironic explanation of how the image was transferred to the burial cloth
called the Shroud of Turin, he relays the story of one of those who
played a major role in the condemnation of death of Jesus of Nazareth,
the Christ. Entitled
The Shroud of Caiaphas , the article … Though scholars may debate how significant a role he played in the
death of Jesus or how accurate are the New Testament accounts of
Jesus’ trial for blasphemy , his name will forever be part of the story of Jesus’ arrest, trial and crucifixion. There can be no dispute that
Joseph Caiaphas
was the high priest in
Jerusalem
and head of the
Temple
high court, the
Sanhedrin ,
when Jesus was executed. After Jesus’ death, Caiaphas would go on to
persecute many in the early Jerusalem Church before being dismissed from
his post in 37 CE
[AD] , by
Lucius Vitellius , the Roman governor of
Syria
under
Tiberius .
Though no longer the high priest, Caiaphas was still a man of privilege. … He certainly was among the
Jerusalem
elite who, when he died, would be buried in one of tombs carved into the limestone outcroppings on the outskirts of
Jerusalem .
As was the Jewish custom then, his family would plan to return to his
tomb, perhaps in a year or two, after his flesh had rotted away, to
gather his bones and place them in a bone box. The 1990 discovery of his
ossuary
with the
Aramaic
inscription,
Yehosef bar Kayafá
tells us they did return for his second burial. …
Unknown
to anyone then, something quite sensational happened in the minutes and
hours after a great sealing stone was moved in front of the entranceway
to Caiaphas’ sepulcher. …a modern day chemist can reconstruct what
happened.
Slowly, two ghostlike, bleary images began to take form on
Caiaphas’ fine linen burial wrapping, his shroud. Had there been light
in the tomb and had someone been able to bear the stench of the amine
vapors of cadaverine and putrescence, he might have been able to pull
back Caiaphas’ shroud and witness the slowly forming straw-yellow
images. …
No modern chemist would call the process magical. No, it’s a
Maillard reaction ,
a complex chemical process that produces caramel-like products or
Melanoidins. This image forming process probably happened frequently in
the limestone tombs outside the walls of ancient
Jerusalem
tombs. …
Thanks to the great Roman encyclopediast,
Gaius Plinius Secundus , the man we know as
Pliny the Elder
(23-77 CE) we understand how linen was made in the first century.
In the article written by Daniel R. Porter entitled
Where Have All the Skeptics Gone?
–
he writes … … It was not until 2005 that things changed. An article appeared in a peer-reviewed scientific journal
Themochimica Acta ,
which proved that the carbon 14 dating was flawed because the sample
was invalid. Moreover, this article, by Raymond N. Rogers, a
well-published chemist, and a Fellow of the
Los Alamos
National Laboratory, explained why the cloth was much older. It was at
least twice as old as the radiocarbon date, and possibly 2,000 years
old. …
It was
Nature , another prestigious peer-reviewed journal that in 1989, reported that carbon 14 dating ‘proved’ the shroud was a hoax.
Rogers
found no fault with the article in
Nature . Nor did he find fault with the quality of the carbon 14 dating. He defended it. What
Rogers
found was the carbon 14 sample was taken from a mended area of the
cloth that contained significant amounts of newer material. This was not
the fault of the radiocarbon laboratories. But it did show that the
dating was invalid.
There will be a conference sponsored by the
Ohio Shroud Conference
committee entitled
Perspectives on a Multifaceted Enigma
at The Blackwell Hotel on the grounds of The Ohio State University,
August 14-17, 2008. The deadline for Abstracts for Regular Session
Papers has passed (February 1 st , 2008; however, the deadline for Abstracts for Poster Session Papers is July 25 th
2008 for those interested or so inclined. You can download posters available
here . Information at the
Wikispace
Shroud site contains information concerning properties of the Shroud,
science in terms of chemistry, medical, measurements, physics,
photography and image hypotheses; carbon-14 dating results and analysis;
history; archaeology; theological discussion; issues and news releases.
Despite repeated proof that the Shroud image could not have been
painted – National Geographic produced a documentary [reported by
The Sydney Morning Herald ] that there is a possibility that the - Shroud of Turin was an elaborate hoax perpetrated by cheeky Renaissance man
Leonardo da Vinci . To me, this is nothing but a spin-off from the speculations from the novel,
The Da Vinci Code .
Bibliography: The Shroud of Turin: An Amino-Carbonyl Reaction
(Maillard Reaction) – Raymond N. Rogers
The Shroud of Caiaphas
– Rethinking the Shroud
Where Have All the Skeptics Gone?
– Daniel R. Porter ( October 28 th
2005 )
Analysis of the Carbon 14 Dating: What is Right and Wrong
– Rethinking the Shroud Objectively
Examination – Pictures of Jesus
– Shroud Story
Turn Shroud Confirmed as a Fake
– Richard Ingham based on French magazine [Physorg.com]
Wrapped in the Shroud
– Steve Tomkins [BBC News]
The Shroud of Turin: All Sides of the Issue
– Religious Tolerance
Shroud of Turin to be Retested
– Donald Sensing [Sense of Events]
Fresh Tests on Shroud of Turin
– Jonathan Petre, Telegraph.co.uk
Sudarium and Shroud
– Angelfire
Sudarium of Oviedo
–
Wikipedia
Leonardo: The Man Behind the Shroud?
–
Sacha Molitorisz, The Sydney Morning Herald [National Geographic documentary]
Sudarium
– Wikipedia
Carbon 14 Dating Mistakes? –
Daniel R. Porter [Innoval]
Turin Shroud Center of Colorado
– shroudofturin.com
The Holy Shroud – Official Site
– sindone.org
Shroud of Turin
– Skeptic Dictionary
Shroud of Turin – Christian Urban Legends
[Religious Tolerance]
Acheiropoietos Jesus Images in Constantinople: the Documentary Evidence
– Daniel C. Scavone, University of Southern Indiana
Physics and Chemistry of the Shroud of Turin , a Summary of 1978
Investigations
– Analytica Chimica Acta, 1982
Spectral Properties of the Shroud of Turin
– Applied Optics, 1980 – OSA
A Chemical Investigation of the Shroud of Turin
– JH Heller, AD Adler –
Canadian Society of Forensic Science Journal, 1981
X-Ray Fluorescence Investigation of the Shroud of Turin
– RA Morris, LA
Schwalbe, JR London – X-Ray Spectrometry , 1980
The Mystery of the Shroud of Turin Challenges 20th-Century Sc ience – BJ
Culliton, Science Magazine, 1978
The Shroud of Turin Through the Microscope
– SF Pellicori, MS Evans –
Archaeology Magazine , 1981
Jesus Christ: The Real Story
- GN Magazine
The Shroud of Turin
- Blogspot, Stephen Jones [I] It is an interesting note that an eyewitness,
John , who was a disciple of Jesus and who was a familiar associate of the other disciples does not reveal the “ other ” disciple by name and with only a description of “ whom Jesus loved ”.
No comments:
Post a Comment
Newer Post
Older Post
Home
Subscribe to:
Post Comments (Atom)
Theologium Archive
►
2015
(4)
►
August
(1)
►
March
(1)
►
February
(1)
►
January
(1)
►
2014
(12)
►
October
(2)
►
July
(1)
►
June
(3)
►
April
(2)
►
March
(2)
►
February
(2)
►
2013
(7)
►
November
(1)
►
September
(1)
►
June
(1)
►
March
(1)
►
February
(1)
►
January
(2)
►
2012
(19)
►
December
(4)
►
November
(1)
►
August
(1)
►
June
(3)
►
April
(4)
►
March
(2)
►
January
(4)
►
2011
(2)
►
December
(1)
►
October
(1)
▼
2010
(16)
▼
August
(5)
Islam: Religion of Peace?
Science and Creationism: A Never-Ending Discussion...
Bibliotheca: Lost Forbidden Texts Found After Scho...
Sharia Law by Tom Carew
Myth Blaster: The Shroud of Turin
►
July
(4)
►
June
(1)
►
April
(1)
►
March
(2)
►
February
(1)
►
January
(2)
►
2009
(10)
►
December
(9)
►
February
(1)
►
2008
(2)
►
October
(1)
►
June
(1)
►
2007
(1)
►
February
(1)
►
2006
(2)
►
June
(1)
►
May
(1)
Research Links
African Sacred Texts
Age of Reason
Ancient Egypt Texts
Ancient Near East Texts
Australian Aboriginal Culture
Baha'i Sacred Texts
Book of Shadows
Buddhist Sacred Texts
Celtic Folklore
Christian Sacred Texts
Christian Science
Comparative Religion
Confucianism
Fortean Mysteries Text
Freemasonry
Gnosticism and Hermetica
Grimoires
Hadith Text - Sunna
Hermitic Sacred Texts
Hindu Sacred Texts
I Ching
Icelandic-Norse Eddas-Sagas
Internet Public Library
Is This Islam?
Islamic Text
Islamic: Shiite Text
Kama Sutra: Sacred Sexuality
Mormonism - Latter Day Saints
Mysticism
Native American Religions
Natural History of Religion - 1757
PSI: Celtic - Candle of Vision
PSI: Psychic Phenomena of Jamaica
Parapsychology: Celtic Twilight
Parapsychology: Religious Experience
Philosophy: Meditations on First Philosophy
Philosophy: The Discourses, Epictetus
Philosophy: Transcendalist, RW Emerson
Philosophy: Utilitarianism
Prophecies: Key To The Tarot
Prophecy - Nostradamus
Roma: Gypsy Mysticism
Sacred Text Archive
Sacred Texts of the East
Shamanism
Shinto
Sikhism
Symbolism in Religion
Tantra
Venus and Adonis - Shakespeare
Wicca and Neo-Paganism
World Religion Facts
Zarathustra - Friedrich Nietzsche
Blogs of Interest
America's Young Theologian
Ancient Religion of Egypt
Animated Mud
Biblical Theology
Bibliocalia
CODEX
Global Theology
Hebrew and Greek Reader
Hindu Blog
New Advent - Catholicism
PaleoJudaica
Religions of Ancient Mediterannean
The Buddhist Blog
The Naked Bible
The Sacred Page
Through the Looking Glass
Western Hindu
Quare Verum
Loading...
Translate Veritas et Theologium
Subscribe To
Posts
Atom
Posts
Comments
Atom
Comments
Letters to the Author
kalehman49@gmail.com
From My Library
Amazon.com Widgets
Monthly Popular Posts
Chapter 16: Symbolism - Religion and Culture
Chapter 7: African Traditional Religion
Chapter 5: Religion and Culture of the Americas
Chapter 18: Wicca - Old Pagan Religion Renewed
Chapter 3: Religion of the Pharaohs, Part A
Chapter 8: Jesus of Nazareth, The Christ of Christianity
Chapter 46: The Apostle Saint Peter
Search for Noah's Ark
Chapter 10: Doctors of the Church
Morality is Consciousness
Contributors
Keith Lehman
David M. Huntwork
Amazon Book Trade
Watermark template. Powered by
Blogger .