Did Jesus Call God "Allah"? | God, Faith, and a Pen
God, Faith, and a Pen
Living In The Light of God's Love
Menu
Skip to content
Home About Dr. Hassaballa The Prophet Muhammad’s Covenant
Search
Search for:
Did Jesus Call God "Allah"?
August 25, 2007
/
Hesham A. Hassaballa
In the Name of God, the Most Compassionate, the Most Merciful
Should Christians call God by the name “Allah”? They should if they heed the advice of Dutch Roman Catholic bishp Tiny Muskens. “Allah is a very beautiful word for God,” he
recently told Dutch television . “Shouldn’t we all say from now on we will name God Allah?…What does God care what we call him?” He based his opinion in part on the fact that churches in Indonesia call God “Allah” in the Eucharist: “In the heart of the Eucharist, God is called Allah over there, so why can’t we start doing that together?”
This suggestion, however, has not sat well with many Catholics. In a
survey
published in the Dutch newspaper De Telegraf, 92% of people polled opposed the Bishop’s view. Roman Catholic priest and FOX News analyst Father Jonathan Morris said, “I’m sure his intentions are good, but his theology needs a little fine tuning. Words and names mean things. Referring God as Allah means something.” Even the chairman of the Protestant Church in the Netherlands, Gerrit De Fjiter, said “Calling God ‘Allah’ does no justice to Western identity. I see no benefit in it,” according to AP.
It is not, however, that far-fetched as many people think. Since its very beginnings, Muslims have asserted that they worship the very same God as Jews and Christians, the God of the Bible, the God of Noah, Abraham, Moses and Jesus Christ. Some Christian leaders have disputed this. The Rev. Pat Robertson, for example,
claims
that “Allah was the moon god from Mecca. That is why Islam has the crescent moon. The flag of Turkey has a crescent moon with a star in it. Well, the crescent moon is because Allah was the mood god, and that is the deal. But we don’t serve a moon god. We serve the God of creation, the Creator of everything.”
With all due respect to Rev. Robertson, that is complete nonsense. Muslims also worship the “Creator of everything.” In the Quran, it instructs the Prophet Muhammad to say: “ O followers of earlier revelation [i.e., Jews and Christians]! Come unto that tenet which we and you hold in common: that we shall worship none but God, and that we shall not ascribe divinity to aught beside Him, and that we shall not take human beings for our lords beside God.’ And if they turn away, then say: ‘Bear witness that it is we who have surrendered ourselves unto Him.’ ” (3:64)
There was a moon god that was worshiped by the Arabs and others. His name was “Sin (pronounced “seen”),” and no pagan Arab ever understood that to be the supreme diety “Allah.” In fact, the pagan Arabs acknowledged the supremacy of the One God of Abraham, whom they called “Allah,” and claimed that their worship of idols was done to bring them closer to God.
The Quran derides this theology: “ and [neither will] they [who] worship, side by side with God, things or beings that can neither harm nor benefit them, saying [to themselves], “These are our intercessors with God!”
Say: “Do you [think that you could] inform God of anything in the heavens or on earth that He does not know? Limitless is He in His glory, and sublimely exalted above anything to which men may ascribe a share in His divinity! ” (10:18)
If, as Rev. Robertson asserts, “Allah” was the moon god of Mecca, then Arabic-speaking Christians must be worshiping the wrong god. They call God “Allah,” and every Arabic translation of the Bible translates God as “Allah.” There is not an Arab Christian I have ever known or met that has not called God “Allah.” When we part, we frequently say to each other
Allah ma’akum , or “May God be with you.”
The name “Allah” is the Arabic form of the ancient semitic name for the supreme diety. Its proto-Semtic root word is “LH,” which means “to worship.” In Arabic, it comes from the words
Al Ilah,
which means “The God.” The root word of
ilah , which means “god,” is
aliha , which means “to bewilder.” This makes perfect sense because, when one contemplates over the awesome nature of God, one cannot but be bewildered. In fact, a Muslim scholar once said, “The non-believer is bewildered by creation, but the believer is bewildered by the Creator.”
The Hebrew “eloh,” which is the name used for God in the Hebrew Bible, also comes from the proto-Semitic root “LH.” In Aramaic, the language related to Arabic and Hebrew and the one which Jesus spoke, the word for God is “alaha.” Morover, the name “Eloi,” which Jesus calls out on the cross in Mark 15:34, is nothing but the Hebrew translation of the Aramaic “alaha,” and therefore Jesus would have called God “alaha,” which is very similar to “Allah.” In other words, Jesus would have called God by the name “Allah.”
This begs the question: why do Muslims frequently have a crescent moon as their symbol (on the tops of minarets, on many flags of Muslim countries, etc.)? According to Pat Robertson, the reason why the flag of Turkey has a crescent moon symbol is because Muslims worship the “moon god,” which, as we have shown, could not be furthest from the truth. Nevertheless, why is Islam associated with the crescent and the star?
There are
several theories
as to the origin of the crescent moon and star. According to
Wikipedia , the crescent moon and star predates Islam by several thousand years:
I nformation on the origins of the symbol are difficult to ascertain, but most sources agree that these ancient celestial symbols were in use by the peoples of
Central Asia
and
Siberia
in their worship of sun, moon, and sky gods. The star and crescent (with the crescent under the star, which was simply a round circle) were also widely used in
ancient Ethiopia
and
South Arabia
(modern day
Yemen
and southern
Saudi Arabia ).
Its image can still be seen on the
Hawulti
at
Matara, Eritrea
and all of the
Aksumite coins
prior to its conversion to
Christianity , for example. According to some reports, the Greek colony of
Byzantium
also used the emblem on their flag as an official governing symbol. According to legend in
339 BC
the city of
Byzantium , (later known as
Constantinople
and then
Istanbul ), won a decisive battle under a brilliant waxing moon which they attributed to their patron Goddess
Artemis
( Diana
in
Roman mythology ) whose symbol was the crescent moon. [1]
In honor of Artemis the citizens adopted the crescent moon as their symbol (though some legends attribute the adoption to a
Roman
victory against the
Goths
on the first day of the lunar month).
When the city became the
Christian
Roman
Constantinople in
330 AD ,
Constantine
also added the
Virgin Mary ‘s star on the flag. [ citation needed ]
As such, it has been claimed that when the
Ottoman
Turks conquered Constantinople (Istanbul) in
1453 , they adopted the city’s existing flag and symbol. [2] [3]
However, the most common theory in Turkey is that crescent and star symbol was adopted by Ottoman Empire after a bloody war in Balkans. [ citation needed ]
After seeing the reflection of crescent and star on to the blood of soldiers, Ottoman Sultan decided to adopt a new flag to honor the soldiers who died for the sake of their country.
What does all this mean? Should Western Christians call God “Allah” in their liturgies? No, I am not in favor of that at all. The English word “God” is a beautiful name, and it dates back to at least the Neolithic Period. It is derived from the proto-Indo-European word “gheu,” which means “to invoke” or “to supplicate.” “God,” in fact, is a past participle of “gheu,” and thus is means “the one who is invoked,” very similar to the meaning of the word “Allah,” which is “the one whom is worshiped.”
What’s more, the word “God” dates back to before Christianity, and its earliest documented use is in the poem
Beowulf . Thus, to use the word “God” to refer to “Allah” is not only proper, it is linguistically correct for me as a native English speaker. Some Muslims believe that the only name Muslims should use for God is “Allah.” I do not ascribe to this belief. While the name “Allah” is the most beautiful of all the names for God, it is not the only one that has been used in history, and there are
many other beautiful names
for God that are used today that are completely appropriate. To me, the names are interchangeable, and whichever word I use – “God” or “Allah” – is completely immaterial. I will use both, depending on the situation in which I find myself.
Nevertheless, the fact remains that “Allah” is the very same God worshipped by Jews and Christians, and Muslims do not worship an alien or pagan god. Rather than heed the calls of those who would seek to divide us, we should learn about and appreciate our similarities – as followers of the Abrahamic tradition – so that we can learn to work together for the common good. The God upon whom we call is one and the same; the name each particular community chooses to call Him is completely immaterial.
Share this Post: Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window) Click to print (Opens in new window) Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window) Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window) Click to share on Pocket (Opens in new window) Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window) Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window) Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window) Like this: Like
Loading...
Uncategorized
Post navigation
←
The Hope Of Which I Spoke ATTENTION: IRAQI WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION HAVE BEEN FOUND!
→
7 thoughts on “ Did Jesus Call God "Allah"? ”
emplois Cameroun
February 5, 2011 at 3:48 AM
It’s probable that Jesus called God Allah, because in Aramic, Allah means God
Reply
DJSTYLEZ
January 13, 2014 at 8:40 AM
Read the bible for yourself and stop living on probability, my King Jesus the Christ did not once call the One trueh God “Allah”, he knew that the name “Allah” originated from Meccan diety in which they praised many gods (demon gods). Jesus calls God:
Abba: Our Father or daddy father.
El Elyon: Most High God
There are other names for the one true God you can find by reading the bible.
Now for my King Jesus the Christ he refers to himself as Alpha & Omega:
the beginning and the end. Abba Father and my King Jesus the Christ are one.
Reply
otto zutz
November 7, 2012 at 9:06 AM
Generally I don’t read post on blogs, however I wish to say that this write-up very pressured me to try and do it! Your writing taste has been surprised me. Thanks, quite nice article.
Reply
guru
May 14, 2013 at 2:08 PM
A rose called by any other name will still be as beautiful as Rose. Honey called by any other name will still be as sweet as the honey.
Reply
DJSTYLEZ
January 13, 2014 at 8:03 AM
Allah is not the God of the Bible and my King Jesus the Christ did not call Elohim “Allah”. The name “Allah” was previously used by pagan Meccans (demonic gods) as a reference to a creator deity, possibly the supreme deity in pre-Islamic Arabia. The concepts associated with the term Allah (as a deity) differ among religious traditions. In pre-Islamic Arabia amongst pagan Arabs, Allah was not considered the sole divinity, having associates and companions, sons and daughters–a concept that was deleted under the process of Islamization.
Reply
Monica
October 7, 2014 at 7:20 PM
Howdy! This is my first visit to your blog! We are
a collection of volunteers and starting a new initiative
in a community in the same niche. Your blog provided us valuable information to work on. You have done a extraordinary
job!
Reply
Nice Meme
April 10, 2015 at 8:46 PM
You said it dates to before Christianity, but mention “Beowulf” which was written well after Christianity was founded. It was written in 1000 AD.
Reply
Leave a Reply
Cancel reply
Enter your comment here...
Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:
Email
(required)
(Address never made public)
Name
(required)
Website
You are commenting using your WordPress.com account.
(  Log Out  /  Change  )
You are commenting using your Twitter account.
(  Log Out  /  Change  )
You are commenting using your Facebook account.
(  Log Out  /  Change  )
You are commenting using your Google+ account.
(  Log Out  /  Change  )
Cancel
Connecting to %s
Notify me of new comments via email.
Join Me On Facebook
Join Me On Facebook
Join Me On Twitter
Click Here
Like My Book, “Noble Brother”
Like My Book, “Noble Brother”
Like My Novel, “Code Blue”
Like My Novel, “Code Blue”
Follow My Journal, “Bayan’s Daddy”
Click Here
Visit My Author Page On Amazon
Click Here
Subscribe to RSS Feed   RSS - Posts   RSS - Comments
Dr. Hassaballa's Principles
I Affirm Freedom of Faith
I Affirm Freedom of Speech
I Condemn All Violence Against the Innocent
I Endorse "A Common Word"
I Endorse The Amman Message
I Stand With The Victims Of Sexual Abuse
Writings
Beliefnet
ChicagoNow
Patheos
The Muslim Observer
Search God, Faith, and a Pen
Search for:
Archives
Archives
Select Month
October 2015
September 2015
August 2015
June 2015
May 2015
April 2015
March 2015
February 2015
January 2015
December 2014
February 2012
January 2012
December 2011
November 2011
October 2011
September 2011
August 2011
July 2011
June 2011
May 2011
April 2011
March 2011
February 2011
January 2011
December 2010
November 2010
October 2010
September 2010
August 2010
July 2010
June 2010
May 2010
April 2010
March 2010
February 2010
January 2010
December 2009
November 2009
October 2009
September 2009
August 2009
July 2009
June 2009
May 2009
April 2009
March 2009
February 2009
January 2009
December 2008
November 2008
October 2008
September 2008
August 2008
July 2008
June 2008
May 2008
April 2008
March 2008
February 2008
January 2008
December 2007
November 2007
October 2007
September 2007
August 2007
July 2007
June 2007
May 2007
April 2007
March 2007
February 2007
January 2007
December 2006
November 2006
October 2006
September 2006
August 2006
July 2006
June 2006
May 2006
April 2006
March 2006
February 2006
January 2006
December 2005
November 2005
October 2005
September 2005
August 2005
July 2005
June 2005
May 2005
April 2005
March 2005
February 2005
January 2005
Subscribe to God, Faith, and a Pen
Join 596 other followers
Email
hesham at godfaithpen dot com
Create a free website or blog at WordPress.com .
|
The Hemingway Rewritten Theme .
Follow
Follow “God, Faith, and a Pen”
Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.
Join 596 other followers
Build a website with WordPress.com
Send to Email Address
Your Name
Your Email Address
Cancel
Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
%d
bloggers like this: