paparazzi: December 2009
skip to main
|
skip to sidebar
12.08.2009
Iglesia ni Cristo
The Iglesia ni Cristo (pronounced
[ɪˈɡleʃɐ ni ˈkɾisto] );
Tagalog
for Church of Christ; also known as INC, or Iglesia, formerly Iglesya ni Kristo, is the largest entirely indigenous
Christian
religious organization that originated from the
Philippines
and the largest independent church in Asia. Due to a number of similarities, some Protestant writers describe the INC's doctrines as
restorationist
in outlook and theme., but the Iglesia ni Cristo does not consider itself to be part of the
Restoration Movement .
Felix Y. Manalo
officially registered the church as a
corporation sole
with him as executive minister on July 27, 1914 and because of this, most publications refer to him as the founder of the church. However, the official doctrines of the church profess that
Jesus Christ
is the founder of the INC and that Felix Manalo was God's last messenger, whom he sent to re-establish the Christian Church to its true, pristine form because the original church
apostatized . They believe that the apostatized church is the
Roman Catholic Church , and proclaim that Catholic beliefs shared by most Christians, such as the Trinity - which is according to the Oxford Dictionary of the Christian Church as the central dogma of Christian theology- are proof of this apostacy. The organization does not believe in the
Trinity , nor that the divinity of
Jesus
and the
Holy Spirit
are Biblical. On August 31, 2009, Iglesia ni Cristo's Executive Minister
Eraño G. Manalo
died of
cardiopulmonary arrest .
Eduardo V. Manalo
is expected to succeed him as leader of the Iglesia ni Cristo. History: The historical context of the Iglesia ni Cristo lies in a period of the early 20th century characterised by a variety of rural
anti-colonialism
movements, often with religious undertones, in the
Philippines
United States
missionary
work was exposing
Filipino culture
to many alternatives to the
Roman Catholic Church , which had been installed under
Spanish rule . Some observers see the INC as an aggressive, materially successful, indigenous movement which became a major religious movement in only a period of fifty years. The success of the INC is attributed primarily to its leadership. By the late 1960s, Eraño had proven himself a worthy successor to his father and began a number of initiatives, including the establishment of congregations in the United States and other countries. On July 27, 1968, Eraño Manalo officiated the first worship service in Ewa, Hawaii thus starting the mission of propagation outside of the Philippines. Unlike the Catholic Church during the Spanish colonial period and the Protestants during the American colonial period, religious groups who emerged after the era of colonialism, including the INC, did not have the support and aid of governments and armies to support their propagation to foreign lands. In 1969, the church began operating its own radio station with regionally syndicated programs, and in 1983 it launched television programming with national syndication. In 2008, it began broadcasting 24-hours via satellite
DirecTV
channel 2068. On March 17, 2009 the Iglesia ni Cristo on Guam celebrates its 40 years of existence in the island. From 7 members who started meeting together outside their work camps, the Iglesia ni Cristo now has 3 local congregation. In 1994, the Iglesia ni Cristo built a permanent chapel then estimated to be worth US$2.1 million. In 2008, on the occasion of the 39th year anniversary of the church, the Legislature of Guam recognized and congratulates the church. In the 1990s a few congregations were established in cities in which the Iglesia believe as significant in the history of the biblical church. In 1994, the Iglesia succeeded in establishing its congregation in Rome, Italy, in 1996 the Jerusalem congregations was established and in 1997 the congregation in Athens, Greece followed. In 2005, the Roman Catholic Church formally acknowledged the existence of the INC, calling it an "emerging" influential religious group. According to various sources, including the 1997
Britannica
Book of the Year, INC had a worldwide population of over one million members by the early 1980s. According the 2000 census of the Philippine National Statistics Office, over 1.76 million persons in the Philippines were are affiliated with the Iglesia ni Cristo as of that year. or roughly doubling in size in a span of 20 years.
Santa Clara university
places the number at 2.3% of the population in the year 2000, or roughly 1.77 million. Some Catholic publications put the number to be between three million and ten million worldwide, possibly making INC larger than the
Jehovah’s Witnesses . INC has become the second largest religious organization in the Philippines and the largest independent church in Asia . By 2008, INC had grown to more than 5,000 congregations in the Philippines, and more than 600 abroad. Congregations are called local congregation, or simply locale. The INC has local congregations in 89 countries and territories with its members belonging to 102 nationalities and ethnic groups. Among the 89 countries are included the following: South Africa, Nigeria, Libya, Abu Dabai, Saudi Arabia, United Arab Emirates, India, Kazahkstan, Russia, China, Papua New Guinea, Fiji, and American Samoa. On July 27, 2009 the church in celebration of its 95th year anniversary held "huge religious assemblies" in 14 locations throughout the Philippines and in five sites in four other countries. In Manila, the assemblies were held at the Araneta Coliseum in Cubao, Quezon City and the Rizal Memorial Complex in Manila. In the provinces, members assembled at the Butuan City Sports Complex in Agusan del Norte; Bicol University Sports Complex in Legazpi, Albay; Cebu Sports Center in Cebu City and others. In Pampanga, at estimated 1 million people packed Villa Sol in San Fernando, Pampanga. Gatherings in other countries were held at the Washington Convention Center in Washington, D.C. and the
HP Pavilion
in San Jose, California; Central Hall Westminster in London, U.K.; Parco Esposizioni Novegro in Milan, Italy; and Hills Center in Sydney, Australia. Other members held their assemblies in their respective houses of worship. At it's 95th year, the Iglesia Ni Cristo has over 5,400 local congregations in 90 countries.
Posted by
aRnniE
at
5:34 PM
No comments:
Malacañang Palace
Malacañang Palace, or officially, Malacañan Palace, is the
official residence
of the
President of the Philippines . The palace is located along the north bank of the
Pasig River
in
Manila . It is called Palasyo ng Malakanyang in
Filipino , and Malacañan Palace when referred to as the official residence of the President of the Philippines. In popular media and everyday parlance, it is simply referred to as Malacañang, and this shorter name is also used when referring to its role as the office of the president. The term "Malacañang" can be used as a
metonym
for the Philippine President's administration or the Executive branch as a whole. Malacañang Palace is depicted on the verso (back) side of the present-day 20- peso
bill. Today the complex consists of several buildings in addition to Malacañang Palace itself.
Bonifacio Hall , formerly the Premier Guest House, was used as the main office of
Corazon C. Aquino , the first female president of the Phillipines and leader of the
People Power Revolution
that ousted the previous president
Ferdinand E. Marcos
in 1986. Later, President
Joseph Ejercito Estrada
adopted it as his residence.
Kalayaan Hall
is the former executive building built under the American administration.
Mabini Hall
is the the current Administration Building. A New Executive Building was also built by President Aquino. Additionally there are other, smaller buildings. Across the river is Malacañang Park, which contains a golf course, park, billets for the presidential guard, as well as a Commonwealth-era presidential resthouse (Bahay Pangarap) and recreation hall. The state and historical rooms of the Palace aren't often seen by the public. The Palace is closed and heavily guarded during times of political unrest, although prior to the
Marcos
administration, access was far more restricted than in the modern era. This lack of access by the public was particularly notable during the
Ramon Magsaysay ) administration in the 1950s. Rallyists often congregate along
Mendiola Street
nearby to air their protests against the government. Etymology: The official etymology from the 1930s says that the name comes from a Tagalog phrase "may lakan diyan", which means "there is a nobleman there", as it was the home of a wealthy Spanish merchant before it hosted the nation's chief executive. The Spanish themselves, on the other hand, said the name came from "Mamalakaya," or the fishermen who once laid out their catch in the bend of the river where the Palace now stands. A more mundane claim is that the Palace actually got its name from the street where it was located, the Calzada de Malacañang. Whatever its origin, the word Malacañang is indisputably Tagalog. Because the
Spanish language
avoids using "-ng" as the final sound of a word, the Spanish colonialists hispanized Malacañang to Malacañán. The Spanish version of the name was maintained during the
American
occupation of the Philippines from 1898 until 1946, despite the fact that "-ng" as a final sound is very familiar in the
English language . "Malacañan" remains to this day an acceptable English version name of the Palace. However, during the 1950s
presidency
of
Ramon Magsaysay , the Philippine government restored the dropped "g" to Malacañang in honor of its historical roots. History: The Spanish Captains-General (before the independence of
New Spain , from which the Philippines was directly governed) and then the
Governors-General of the Philippines
originally resided in the walled city of
Intramuros , Manila, until an earthquake leveled the Palacio del Gobernador (Governor's Palace) in 1869. At this point, Malacañang Palace, a summer home originally built in 1802 by Spanish aristocrat Don Luis Rocha, then subsequently purchased by an official and then purchased by the state, became the temporary residence of the Governors-General. Governor General
Rafael de Echague y Berminghan , previously governor of Puerto Rico, was therefore the first Spanish governor to occupy Malacañang Palace. When the Philippines came under American rule following the
Spanish-American War , Malacañang Palace became the residence of the American Governor-General. In 1900,
William Howard Taft
became the first American Civil Governor resident. The palace was expanded, and an Executive building added by Governors-General
Francis Burton Harrison
and Dwight Davis. The complex reverted to the President of the Philippines upon the establishment of the Commonwealth of the Philippines, on November 15, 1935. President
Manuel L. Quezon
became the first Filipino resident of Malacañang Palace. It has been the official residence of the President of the Philippines since. After his inauguration on December 30, 1953, President
Ramon Magsaysay
issued an Executive Order formally changing the name from "Malacañang Palace" to "Malacañang: Residence of the President of the Philippines." The new nomenclature rapidly caught on and was maintained until informally abandoned during the
Marcos
administration. During the administration of President
Corazon Aquino , for historical reasons, government policy has been to make the distinction between "Malacañan Palace", official residence of the president, and "Malacañang", office of the president. The palace was made famous as the home of President Ferdinand and
Imelda Marcos , who were its longest residents, from 1965 to 1986. As first lady, Mrs. Marcos oversaw the reconstruction of the palace to her own extravagant tastes. Including the former San Miguel Brewery Buildings, which was demolished upon Expansion, paving away to a park near the San Miguel Church. Following a student uprising that nearly breached the palace gates in the early 1970s,
martial law
was declared, and the complex was closed to the public. When President Marcos was deposed in 1986, the palace complex was stormed by the local populace, and the international media subsequently exposed the excesses of the Marcos family, including Mrs. Marcos' infamous collection of thousands of shoes.
Posted by
aRnniE
at
5:29 PM
No comments:
Manila Metropolitan Theater
The Manila Metropolitan Theatre is an art deco building designed by the Filipino architect
Juan M. de Guzman Arellano , and inaugurated on December 10, 1931, with a capacity of 1670 (846 orchestra, 116 in loge, and 708 in balcony). During the liberation of Manila by the United States and Filipino forces in
1945 , the theatre was severely damaged, losing its some of its roofing and walls battered. After reconstruction by the Americans it gradually fell into disuse in the 1960’s. In the following decade it was meticulously restored in 1978 but again fell into decay. Recently, a bus terminal and parking building has been constructed at the back of the theatre. The city of Manila, with the help of the National Commission on Culture and the Arts (NCCA) is planning a rehabilitation of the theatre. The sculptures in the façade of the Theatre are from the Italian sculptor
Francesco Riccardo Monti , who lived in Manila from 1930 until his death in 1958, and worked closely together with J.M. de Guzman Arellano. Highly stylized relief carving of Philippine plants executed by the artist
Isabelo Tampingco
decorate the lobby walls and interior surfaces of the building. The theater was closed in 1996 due to ownership disputes between the City of Manila Administration and the GSIS. The theater is located on Padre Burgos Street near the Manila Post Office which was also designed by Architect Arellano.
Posted by
aRnniE
at
5:22 PM
No comments:
Malate Church
Malate Church is a
church
in
Manila ,
Philippines . It is a
Baroque -style church which faces a small park and beyond that
Manila Bay . The church is dedicated to Nuestra Senora de Remedios ("Our Lady of Remedies"), the patroness of childbirth. A revered statue of the
Virgin Mary
in her role as Our Lady of Remedies was brought from
Spain
in
1624
and stands at the altar. The church was built originally in the sixteenth century by the Augustinians and is one of the oldest churches in Manila outside of Intramuros. British soldiers took refuge in this church during their occupation of the Philippines and attack on
Intramuros
in 1762-63. However, the church was destroyed in
1773
and was rebuilt. It was also badly damaged in
World War II , and later restored again.
Posted by
aRnniE
at
5:18 PM
No comments:
Maragondon church
The Municipality of Maragondon (Filipino: Bayan ng Maragondon) is a 4th class municipality in the province of Cavite, Philippines. Maragondon is 54 kilometers away from Manila going southeast. According to the 2007 census, it has a population of 33,604 people. This municipality is in the east of South China Sea.HistoryThe name Maragondon was derived from Tagalog word madagundong or maugong, meaning much sound. Actually the sounds comes from a noisy river called Kay Albaran in the barrio of Capantayan. This area was the first townsite selected, but because the river frequently overflowed its bank and in undated the place it was later transferred to its present site. The word madagundong not being pleasant to ears, the people had it change to marigundong in honor of the town' s patron saint, Nueatra Senora Maria Asuncion ( Our Lady of The Assumption ).Soon after the establishment of the American regime, Lope K. Santos , an authority on Tagalog language and member of a geographic committee created to "investigate and revise" the names of Philippine towns and provinces, recommended the change of Marigundong to "Maragondon" definitely more pleasing to the hear, the present name of the townIncidentally, Maragondon has three foundation dates; namely, 1. ) 1611 when the Franciscan Fathers from Silang established their first visita or chapel; 2.) 1690, the Fundacion Ecclesiastica or founding of the regular parish by the Jesuits, dedicating it to Our Lady of the Assumption; 3.) 1727, the Fundacion Civil, when the original barrio of Maragondon was separated from Silang during the administration of the Recollects and converted into an independent municipality with Gregorio Silvestre has he first gobernadorcillo. Maragondon belonged to the corregimiento of Mariveles (now Bataan province) until 1754 when Spanish gevernor General Pedro Manuel de Arandia (1754 A- 1759) abolished the politico A- military administration and restored Maragondon Cavite Province.In the second half of the 19th century the towns of Ternate, Magallanes, Bailen, Alfonso, and Naic were mere barrios of Maragondon. Ternate was separated from Maragondon on March 31, 1857, under an agreement signed by Tomas de Leon, Felix Nigosa, Pablo de Leon, Florencio Nino Franco and Juan Ramos in behalf of the Ternatenos (people living in Ternate). Home of the Riders Association of Maragondon. Parish Church of the Assumption of Our Lady (Maragondon, Cavite). The church was built in the early 18th century by the Jesuits, with later additions by the seculars and the Augustinian Recollects. Much of the church and belltower, and the lower portion of the convento is made of irregular river stones, indicative of the early level of technology operating at that time. The intricately-carved retablos, pulpit and church doors (with galleons and floral designs) date from Jesuit times, while the hugely carved beams crossing the nave were installed by the seculars-- one of the beams even carries the name of the indio priest who commissioned them. The unusual horseshoe-shaped communion rail, with a flooring of inlaid wood of various colors, recalls that of San Sebastian Church, Manila, another Recollect construction.
Posted by
aRnniE
at
5:12 PM
No comments:
Loon church, Bohol
Loon
is a 2nd class
municipality
in the
province
of
Bohol ,
Philippines . According to the 2007 census, it has a population of 42,441 people. The town has an old church dating from the 1850's. History: The year of Loon's founding as a community has not been ascertained due to the dearth of official documents. The earliest year to reckon is 1610 when a nucleus Christian community in the coastal village of Napo allegedly resulted from the ministering activities of the Jesuit friars who came to the Philippines more than 85 years earlier. Church records, however, show that the first parish priest, also a Jesuit, was installed in 1753. The Recollect priests took over the administration of the local church in the late 1760s, but it was only in around 1855 when the imposing stone church of the Our Lady of Light (Birhen sa Kasilak) was completed. Since 1753, more than 70 priests had served the parish. Today, Loon has five Catholic parishes, the last one (Parish of Our Lady of Peace and Good Voyage) having been established on November 19, 2000. A 200-year gap exists between the emergence (in historical records) of the community in Napo in 1610 and the installation of Tomas Sevilla in 1810 as Loon’s first town executive. Then addressed as ‘cabeza de barangay’, the municipal mayor was called ‘capitan’ and ‘presidente municipal’ in the ensuing years. Thirty-two mayors had served the municipality, excluding the incumbent, mayor, Dr. Lloyd Peter M. Lopez. At least three town heads served for more than one term, namely, Vivencio Nazareno (1916-22 and 1928-31); Geronimo Lituañas (appointed, 1946-47 and elected, 1948-51); and Wilfredo Caresosa (1980-86 and 1988-98). Loon always figures prominently in the political history of the province. Towards the end of the 19th century when the Americans first set foot on Bohol and were met by resistant forces of the local guerrillas opposed to another foreign dominion, Loon was the first town burned by the aggressors in an effort to subdue the reluctant natives. Just before the century ended, Mariano Sumatra, a.k.a. Mariano “Anoy” Datahan, a native of Barangay Canhangdon Occidental, founded the Eskaya community in Bayabas, Guindulman which later spread to Taytay, Duero. Although not a cultural minority group, the Eskaya has its own system of doing things including the use of an alphabet mostly consisting of symbols representing nature and parts of the human body. In about 1900, when enmity towards the foreigners subsided, an American engineer visited Loon and described it as a fertile plateau planted with coconut, corn and tobacco, and a progressive town of 16,000 people. He wrote about the imposing structures of the town like the church and convent, stone stairway or Inang-angan, and wharf; children going to school; an affluent community with well-kept environs; and a spring flowing from a cave on the northern edge of the town, after which the name Loon (from ‘nag-loon’, or the merging of freshwater and saltwater) was coined. In 1903, the first official count of inhabitants was conducted nationwide. Loon’s population was described as fairly large at 18,114 residents. At that time, no other Bohol municipality, including Tagbilaran, registered more than 10,000 residents. On September 27, 1942, amid the raging US-Japan war, the Moalong River that dissects the municipality into the northern and southern parts, became mute witness to the most successful ambush mounted against the Japanese imperial forces by the Boholano guerrillas led by Vicente T. Cubero, a.k.a. Captain Francisco Salazar. Considered the hero of the Battle of Moalong, Salazar claimed to have his family roots in Barangay Pondol. It was Juan ‘Aning’ Relampagos, a former member of the United States Armed Forces in the Far East (USAFE), who brought Salazar to Bohol. Relampagos disguised himself as a trader sailing between Mindanao and the Visayan islands. He met Salazar while plying his goods in the southern towns of Leyte. Relampagos later became municipal mayor and member of the provincial board. The war exploits of Cubero are described in the book entitled "Boholano Guerrillas in Action" that was written by Pio B. Ferandos, former Cebu RTC judge and Loon mayor. In the years following the Second World War, prominent Loonanons became active participants in charting the development of the province and the country as well. Among them are Natalio P. Castillo, Executive Secretary to Pres. Carlos P. Garcia and member of the House of Representatives; Ramon Lapez, another House member; Ricardo Miranda, governor of the then only Davao province; Fermin Mesina, commercial attaché to Japan and Vietnam; Purisimo R. Castillo, commercial attaché to Spain; Rene Lopez Relampagos, Bohol’s youngest governor; current Budget Undersecretary Mario Relampagos; and Romulo L. Neri, former Secretary of Economic Planning and Director General of the National Economic and Development Authority (NEDA) who is currently the president of the Social Security System (SSS).
Posted by
aRnniE
at
4:55 PM
No comments:
Boac church, Marinduque
Boac
is a 2nd class
municipality
in the
province
of
Marinduque ,
Philippines . It is the capital municipality of Marinduque. According to the 2000 census, it has a population of 48,504 people in 9,836 households. In 1942, the occupation by the Japanese troops taken in the town of Boac, Marinduque. Beginning the
Battle of Marinduque
in 1945 the American and Philippine Commonwealth troops landed by the attacked from the Japanese forces in Boac. Mahal na Birhen ng Biglang-Awa On May 10, 2008, the Diocese of Boac celebrated the 30th anniversary and the golden anniversary of the canonical coronation of Mahal na Birhen ng Biglang-Awa (1958-2008).
Ricardo Cardinal Vidal , of Mogpog, Marinduque, officiated the Concelebrated Mass. The people’s devotion to the image of the Blessed Virgin Mary, began when the Spanish
Jesuit
missionaries in 1621, brought the 3-foot Marian image to Boac. In the mid-17th century, a big expedition of
Moros
landed on the shores of Barangay Laylay near the Boac river. Many Christians were killed in the
siege . But due to their devotion to
Mary , the Moros fled to their
Vintas , when, at the storm’s fury, a beautiful Lady with her arms outstretched stood on top of the wall (where the shrine is now located). To commemorate the
miracle , a stone
niche
was built on the wall.
Posted by
aRnniE
at
4:50 PM
No comments:
Betis church in Pampanga
Of the many churches built during the Spanish colonial period, the
Parish Church of Saint James the Great in Betis , Pampanga stands as one of few that celebrates the Pampangenos’ artistic skill. By car, Betis, Pampanga is less than an hour’s drive away from Manila. That is, if there is no lahar in the outlying vicinity. Mudflow from Mt. Pinatubo has wantonly gorged out parts of the road leading to Betis that traffic can get as bad as the end-of-the-day mad rush at EDSA. Once in the town, however, the flurry of traffic calms down, and the journey halts to a simple, quiet place, invigorated only by the presence of a white-washed church. Betis is a small town. The plaza fronting the church is still a gathering place for the people, perhaps, just like in the olden days. Modest in size and style, the church seems to reflect the simplicity and reticence of the town. The construction was started by Fr. Fernando Pinto in 1660 and, after one hundred years, it was finally completed in 1770 by Fr. Jose dela Cruz.
The facade of the Betis church is not unlike other colonial churches in the country. The book, Great Churches of the Philippines, describes the facade of the church: “Rendered in stone, stucco, and timber the church draws inspiration from disparate sources and brings them together without any trace of disharmony. The facade calls to mind the delicacy of Wedgewood ceramic, save that the appliquéd white motifs are Baroque instead of the traditional Classical cameos. These appliqués achieve the fineness of filigree, in the teardrops and ribband above the rose window of the pediment, and in the espejito de mano (hand mirror designs) on the side panels of the second level.” The various architectural elements on the facade, including the whimsical scrolls at the pediment, all usher to strong Baroque allusions. Almost all. A later addition, the portico at the main doorway regresses back to a Renaissance style.
The rather refined and subdued character of the facade, however, does not bespeak the architecture that lies behind the heavy and intricately carved wooden doors of the church. If the visitor’s quest is to find a lasting impression of the church, then all the person has to do is enter its doors. The caller soon finds out that Betis church happens to be one of few that have the most splendid interiors among the colonial church lineage. The experience begins immediately at the main entrance, below the choirloft, where the faux-covered ceiling becomes the prologue for the visual and tactile extravagance of the interior. Here, a painting of Jesus as a shepherd occupies the central portion of the ceiling. But the fascination here is short-lived, since the lavish trompe l’oiel of the nave’s ceiling is clearly visible at this vantage, and one can not help but to be drawn deeper into the church’s interior. The wooden ceiling of the nave is essentially flat, except where it curves down slightly to meet the side walls. Perhaps, the painter must have compared the ceiling to a huge canvass, albeit it was turned upside down. Here, the vast ceiling is broken down to a comprehensible scale by faux coffers that are embroidered with foliage, swirls and curves. In the midst of the ceiling are quatrefoil- framed religious scenes, one occupying most of the space. Images of saints and angels, with equally impressive trompe l’oiel, highlight the edges of the ceiling. From the ceiling, the explosion of colors gradually recedes down to follow the vertical rhythm set by the super-imposed half-round columns along the side walls of the church. Even the vertical ribbings of the columns are painted; still, the three-dimensional effect is convincing. The picturesque interior is refined by natural light that cordially enters through rose and rectangular windows that puncture between the columns. The rose windows are bordered with ornate plaster, while carved wooden valances accentuate the lower rectangular windows. The decoration is consistently carried at each bay of the wall. Where the wall bears no rose or valance window, it is nonetheless painted with faux windows in order to sustain the same poetry. The wall decorations also include faux paintings, complete with faux guild frames. The effect of chiaroscuro makes these objects come to life.
The visual spectacle intensifies at the crossing. Here, the interior opens up to an octagonal dome. Like the rest of the church, the dome was not spared from the painter’s zealous brush. The dome depicts a heavenly scene of clouds and religious images that are lit by natural light entering through the windows of the drum. The four piers that hold up the dome are also profusely ornamented. Each pier is painted with one of the four evangelists, similar to many western traditional churches. The extravagance of the church finally climaxes at the retablo. The heavily guilded altar is a dazzling feat and a celebration of the carving skills of the Pampango artisans. Slender Corinthian columns, some with twisted base, divide the retablo vertically, while cornices divide it horizontally into three tiers. The altar is decorated with cherubs, flora, sunfaces, and stars, along with niches containing statues of saints. The shimmer of ornamental gild radiates from the retablo’s white background.
Simon Flores, a local artist, is credited for the original interior painting of Betis church. It is noted in the book Great Churches of the Philippines that Flores’ passion for profuse decoration was inspired by the San Agustin church in Intramuros. However, subsequent retouches over the years have complicated the original character of the paintings. Betis church is a rare treasure in the Pampanga province. It embodies the bold and exuberant skills of the local artisans. As a religious and historic edifice, the church has survived hundreds of years. One can only hope that, unlike the neighboring towns, the church will never have to face the dreadful threat of lahar.
Posted by
aRnniE
at
4:42 PM
No comments:
Quiapo Church
Quiapo Church , officially known as Minor Basilica of the Black Nazarene, is a
Roman Catholic
church
located in the District of
Quiapo, Manila , in the
Philippines . The church is one of the most popular churches in the country. It is home to the
Black Nazarene , a much venerated statue of
Jesus Christ
which many people believe has miraculous attributes. The church was painted cream after the original
Mexican
Baroque
edifice was burned down in 1928. Also known as St. John the Baptist Parish, the church at present belongs to the
Archdiocese of Manila . The current rector is Rev. Msgr. Jose Clemente Ignacio, who succeeded Msgr. Josefino Ramirez (the
Vicar General
of the archdiocese) upon the latter's appointment as rector of the Archdiocesan Shrine of the Divine Mercy in Maysilo,
Mandaluyong City . Historical Background: When Governor General Santiago de Vera founded the District of Quiapo on August 29, 1586, the Franciscan Missionaries built the first church of Quiapo with Bamboo and Nipa. Unfortunately, this church was burned in 1639. Rebuilding and repairs at intervals gave the parish a stronger edifice which the earthquake of 1863 partially destroyed. Under the supervision of Fathers Eusebio de Leon and Manuel Roxas, the third church was completed in 1899, with Fr. Roxas raising PhP. 40,000.00 from contributions. In the fire of October 30, 1928, the church was left in ruins leaving its scarred walls and belfry. Dona Encarnacion Nakpil de Orense, head of the Parish Committee, raised funds for the reconstruction of the church and National Artist for Architecture
Juan Nakpil
was made responsible for the church's rebuilding. Miraculously, the church survived the ravages of the Second World War, despite its surrounding buildings being completely destroyed. The Augustinian Recollect Friars brought the image of the Black Nazarene to the Church of San Juan Bautista in Bagumbayan, now part of Luneta/Rizal Park on May 31, 1606. The image was transferred to the bigger Recollect church of San Nicolas de Tolentino in 1608. In 1787, Basilio Sancho de Santas Junta y Rufina, S.P., then Archbishop of Manila, ordered the transfer of the image to the Church of Quiapo.
Posted by
aRnniE
at
4:35 PM
No comments:
Paoay Church
Paoay Church
(also known as the St. Augustine Church in Paoay) is a historical church located in
Paoay, Ilocos Norte . During the
Philippine Revolution
in 1898, its coral stone bell tower was used by the
Katipuneros
as an observation post. Paoay Church is part of the
UNESCO World Heritage List . It currently is a property of the Diocese of
Laoag, Ilocos Norte . Construction of Paoay Church was started by the Augustinian friars in 1694. It was completed in 1894 led by Fr.
Antonio Estavillo
and was re-dedicated in 1894. A three-storey coral stone bell tower stands a few meters away from the church. The bell tower served as an observation post in 1896 for the Katipuneros during the Philippine revolution against the Spaniards, and again by the Filipino guerillas during the Japanese occupation in
World War II . According to historians, the bell tower also served as a status symbol for the locals. The bell would ring more loudly and more times during the wedding of a prominent clan that it would during the wedding of the poor. Portions of the church was damaged during the earthquakes in 1865 and 1885. During an excavation inside the church in 2000, a prehistoric human skeleton and fragmented ceramics were discovered and are now in display at the
National Museum . Former president
Ferdinand Marcos
declared Paoay Church as a national treasure and is now included in the UNESCO World Heritage List.
The Church is a unique combination of Gothic, Baroque and Oriental designs. Its facade reveals Gothic affinity, its gables show Chinese elements, while the niches topping the walls suggest Javanese influence (reminiscent of the famous Boroboudur Temple). Known as the “Earthquake Baroque” church in the Philippines, Paoay church was built of baked bricks, coral rocks, salbot (tree sap) and lumber, and has 24 carved massive buttresses for support. It is an architectural solution to the area's challenging, natural setting. Both sides of the nave are lined with the most voluminous stone buttresses seen around the islands. Large coral stones were used for the lower level while bricks were used for the upper levels of the church. The walls are 1.67 meters thick made of the same materials. Its bell tower, which is detached from its main building, is made of coral stone. It stands a safe distance away to spare the sanctuary in case of collapse. Originally, the church roof was thatched; and it is conjectured so that buttresses not only support walls but give roof access during fire and typhoon.
Posted by
aRnniE
at
4:27 PM
No comments:
Vigan Cathedral
Vigan Cathedral
(also known as St. Paul Metropolitan Cathedral) is an earthquake Baroque-styled church built in 1574 commissioned by Spaniard Juan de Salcedo located in the
Ilocos
region.
The first Vigan Cathedral was ordered and built in 1574 by Juan de Salcedo. Another version of the church was again constructed in 1641 but was unfortunately destroyed by an earthquake. A reconstructed church was gutted with fire in 1739. The current church was constructed in 1790 and was finished in 1800. The church itself became a cathedral when the seat of the Diocese of Nueva Segovia was transferred from
Cagayan
to
Vigan .
Vigan Cathedral features Neo-Gothic and pseudo Romanesque motifs. The baroque-styled church has thick buttresses to support it through earthquakes and typhoons. On January 31, 1790, the cornerstone of the present Vigan Cathedral was placed. Most of the original features of the church interior are still intact. The Cathedral has twelve altars with hammered-silver panels, three naves, and a choir loft. Above the main doorway is an alcove that depicts the conversion of St. Paul. After four years the walls were finished, all in stone, the baptistery was completed together with the side chapels; the beautiful facade was finished up to the cornice and the wall at the back of the cathedral was also ready. The Church's main door held by two pairs of columns which rise to the second tier of the facade. The moldings on its facade and the brass communion rails give hints of the Chinese influence in the church's designs and architecture. Its bell tower stands separately in Plaza Burgos, 10 meters south of the cathedral. The bell tower is about 25 meters high and it is surmounted by a large bronze weathercock that is said to symbolize St Peter. The cathedral was the first building in Ilocos with tiles on the roof.
Posted by
aRnniE
at
3:56 PM
No comments:
Sarrat Church, Ilocos
Sta. Monica Parish Church
or simply
Sarrat Church
is one of the most popular destinations in Ilocos Norte not just for its heritage and cultural significance but it was this same church that one of the most lavish weddings in the country happened. It was in June 11, 1983 that then presidential daughter Irene Marcos wed a member of the scion clan of the Aranetas, Greggy Araneta. The wedding was one of the ways that the Marcoses showed their indulgence as they built the Laoag Airport and the
Fort Ilocandia Resort and Casino
just for the wedding. The sleepy town was transformed into a bustling village during the Marcos-Araneta Nuptials that many people compared it to the royal wedding of Princess Diana and Prince Charles. And it doesn’t end there, for the church was badly damaged when a 7.6 intensity earthquake hit Sarrat which some say was a premonition of the inevitable downfall of the Marcos regime. The town of Sarrat is important for the Marcos family since the president, Ferdinand Marcos was born in this town before they moved to
Batac
when he was eight. Fabian Ver who was also very active during the Marcos regime was from Sarrat. One of the guesthouses of Marcos is in Sarat which was abandoned for many years and now a government office. Setting aside Marcos- Araneta weddings, Sta. Monica Church is no doubt a very lovely structure of Neo-classical and Baroque features. Its bell tower which was severely damaged during the earthquake is now fully restored. The façade of Sarrat Church is not intricate but is made of baked red bricks with some jars used as ornament. The church also faces a river in which during summer, huts were built for families along with balikbayans to have some nice picnic along the riverbank. The interior of the church is also very simple, not a hint of glamor from the wedding that happened more than two decades ago. No tall pillar or sculptures inside, maybe the ornaments were all ravaged by the past earthquakes that the church succumbed to in the past.
Posted by
aRnniE
at
3:41 PM
No comments:
Basilica of Santo Niño
The
Basilica of Santo Niño
or
Basilica del Santo Niño
is a 16th century church in
Cebu City
in the
Philippines . It was built on the exact spot where the image of the
Santo Niño , a sculpture depicting the Holy Child Jesus was founded by Spanish explorers in 1565 preserved in a burned wooden box which was left behind during the 1521
Magellan
expedition. History: The church of Santo Niño de Cebu was founded by an Augustinian priest,
Andrés de Urdaneta
on
April 28 ,
1565 . The first church structure was built out of earth, hard wood and
nipa
in 1566 ordered by Friar Diego de Herrera. In 1735, Fernando Valdés y Tamon, the Governor of Cebu, ordered the church to be constructed of hard stone, which was built in the same spot were the previous church stood. Construction was completed in 1739. In 1965, during the fourth centenary of the Christianization of the Philippines,
Pope Paul VI
elevated the church to the rank of minor
basilica . The Basilica remains under the care of the
Order of St. Augustine . Museum: A museum inside the Basilica showcases the history of
Christianity
in Cebu. Antique objects are on display, including century-old furniture, priestly vestments and the Santo Nino's old cloaks donated by individuals over the centuries. Religious articles such as statues and relics are also displayed and other items of daily life from the adjacent convento. Several toys may also be seen; these are said to be presents to the Child Jesus, as well as a large Santo Niño rosary composed of 15 beads.
Posted by
aRnniE
at
3:31 PM
No comments:
San Agustin Church, Manila
San Agustin Church
is a
Roman Catholic
church under the auspices of
The Order of St. Augustine , located inside the historic walled city of
Intramuros
in
Manila . Completed by 1607, it is the oldest church currently standing in the
Philippines . No other surviving building in the Philippines has been claimed to pre-date San Agustin Church. In 1993, San Agustin Church was one of four Philippine churches constructed during the
Spanish colonial period
designated by the
UNESCO
as a
World Heritage Site , under the classification " Baroque Churches of the Philippines ". It had been named a National Historical Landmark by the Philippine government in 1976.
History: The present structure is actually the third Augustinian church erected on the site. The first San Agustin Church was the first religious structure constructed by the
Spaniards
on the island of
Luzon . Made of
bamboo
and
nipa , it was completed in 1571, but destroyed by fire in December, 1574 during the attempted invasion of Manila by the forces of
Limahong . A second church made of wood was constructed on the site. This was destroyed in February, 1583, in a fire that started when a candle set ablaze the drapes of the funeral bier during the interment of the
Spanish Governor-General
Gonzalo Ronquillo de Peñalosa. The Augustinians decided to rebuild the church using stone, and to construct as well an adjacent
monastery . Construction began in 1586, from the design of Juan Macias. The structure was built using hewn
adobe
stones quarried from
Meycauayan ,
Binangonan
and
San Mateo, Rizal . The work proceeded slowly due to the lack of funds and materials, as well as the relative scarcity of stone artisans. The monastery was operational by 1604, and the church was formally declared as completed on January 19, 1607, and named St. Paul of Manila. Macias, who had died before the completion of the church, was officially acknowledged by the Augustinians as the builder of the edifice. San Agustin Church was looted by the
British
forces which occupied Manila in 1762 during the
Seven Years' War . It withstood major earthquakes that struck Manila in 1645, 1754, 1852, 1863, and 1880. In 1854, the church was renovated under the supervision of architect Luciano Oliver. On August 18, 1898, the church was the site where Spanish Governor-General Fermin Jaudenes prepared the terms for the surrender of Manila to the United States of America following the
Spanish-American War . During the Japanese occupation of the Philippines during
World War II , San Agustin Church was turned into a concentration camp for prisoners. During the final days of the
Battle of Manila , hundreds of Intramuros residents and clergy were held hostage in the church by
Japanese soldiers ; many of the hostages would be killed during the three-week long battle. The church itself survived the bombardment of Intramuros by American and Filipino forces with only its roof destroyed, the only one of the seven churches in the walled city to remain standing. The adjacent monastery however was totally destroyed, and would be rebuilt in the 1970s as a museum under the design of architect Angel Nakpil. Features: San Agustín Church measures 67.15 meters long and 24.93 meters wide. Its elliptical foundation has allowed it to withstand the numerous earthquakes that have destroyed many other Manila churches. It is said that the design was derived from Augustinian churches built in
Mexico , and is almost an exact copy of
Puebla Cathedral
in
Puebla , Mexico. The facade is unassuming and even criticized as "lacking grace and charm", but it has notable
baroque
touches, especially the ornate carvings on its wooden doors. The church courtyard is graced by several granite sculptures of lions, which had been gifted by
Chinese
converts to Catholicism. The church interior is in the form of a Latin cross. The church has 14 side chapels and a
trompe-l'oeil
ceiling painted in 1875 by
Italian
artists Cesare Alberoni and Giovanni Dibella. Up in the choir loft are hand-carved 17th-century seats of
molave , a beautiful tropical hardwood. The church contains the tomb of Spanish
conquistadors
Miguel López de Legazpi ,
Juan de Salcedo
and
Martín de Goiti , as well as several early Spanish Governors-General and archbishops. Their bones are buried in a communal vault near the main altar. The painter
Juan Luna , and the statesmen
Pedro A. Paterno
and
Trinidad Pardo de Tavera
are among the hundreds of laypersons whose remains are also housed within the church. San Agustin Church also hosts an image of Our Lady of Consolation (Nuestra Senora de Consolacion y Correa), which was canonically crowned by Manila Archbishop Cardinal
Jaime Sin
in 2000.
Posted by
aRnniE
at
2:59 PM
No comments:
Newer Posts
Home
Subscribe to:
Posts (Atom)
paparazzi
Blog Archive
December
(14)
♥.this is me.♥
aRnniE
View my complete profile
Followers