NAZARETH – The Holy Land | 2eyeswatching
2eyeswatching
Unique By Nature
«
Tabgha – Traditional Site of The Miracle of Multiplication of the Loaves and Fishes
JERICHO
»
NAZARETH – The Holy Land
Post 384
NAZARETH – The Holy Land
Nazareth
.
Nazareth
Nazareth
District
North
Government
City
Hebrew
נָצְרַת ( Natz’rat  or  Na’tzeret )
Arabic
النَّاصِرَة ( al-Nā ṣ ɪ ra )
Population
65,900 [1]
Metropolitan Area: 210,000 ( 2007 )
Area
14,123  dunams  (14.123 km 2 ; 5.453 sq mi)
Mayor
Ramiz Jaraisy
Coordinates
32°42′07″N 35°18′12″E / 32.70194°N 35.30333°E / 32.70194; 35.30333 Coordinates : 32°42′07″N 35°18′12″E / 32.70194°N 35.30333°E / 32.70194; 35.30333
Website
www.nazareth.muni.il
Nazareth  (pronounced  /ˈnæzərəθ/ ;  Hebrew : נָצְרַת‎,  Natzrat  or  Natzeret ; Arabic : الناصرة‎  al-Nā ṣ ira  or  al-Naseriyye ) is the capital and largest  city  in the  North District of Israel . Known as “the  Arab  capital of  Israel ,” the population is made up predominantly of  Arab citizens of Israel . In the  New Testament , the city is described as the  childhood  home of Jesus , and as such is a center of  Christian   pilgrimage , with many shrines commemorating biblical events. The name “Nazareth” may derive from the Hebrew verb  na·tsar , נָצַר, meaning “watch, guard, keep.”
Etymology
Nazareth is not mentioned in pre-Christian texts and appears in many different Greek forms in the New Testament. There is no consensus regarding the origin of the name. It must be noted that, in their scriptures, the Mandeans mention  nasirutha  as a place they go.
Biblical references
“Nazareth” assumes several forms (Nazara, Nazaret, Nazareth, Nazarat, Nazarath) in surviving Greek versions of the New Testament. Many scholars have questioned a link between “Nazareth” and the terms “ Nazarene ” and “ Nazoraean ” on linguistic grounds, while some affirm the possibility of etymological relation “given the idiosyncrasies of Galilean Aramaic.” [7]  Of the twelve appearances of the town’s name in the New Testament, ten use the form  Nazaret  or Nazareth , and two use the form  Nazara .  Nazara  (Ναζαρα) is generally considered the earliest form of the name in Greek, and is found in Matthew 4:13  and  Luke 4:16 , as well as the putative  Q document , which many scholars maintain preceded 70 CE and the formation of the canonical Christian gospels. The form  Nazareth  appears once in the Gospel of Matthew  21:11 , four times in the birth chapters of the Gospel of Luke at  1:26 ;  2:4 ,  2:39 ,  2:51 , and once in the Acts of the Apostles at  10:38 . In the Gospel of Mark, the name appears only once in  1:9  in the form  Nazaret .
Extrabiblical references
The form  Nazara  is also found in the earliest non-scriptural reference to the town, a citation by  Sextus Julius Africanus  dated about 200 CE. (See “Middle Roman to Byzantine Periods” below.) The Church Father Origen  (c. 185 to 254 CE) knows the forms  Nazara  and  Nazaret .Later,  Eusebius  in his  Onomasticon  (translated by  St. Jerome ) also refers to the settlement as  Nazara .
The first non-Christian reference to Nazareth is an inscription on a marble fragment from a  synagogue  found in  Caesarea Maritima  in 1962. This fragment gives the town’s name in Hebrew as nun·tsade·resh·tav.  The inscription dates as early as c. 300 CE and chronicles the assignment of priests that took place at some time after the  Bar Kokhba revolt , 132-35 CE. (See “Middle Roman to Byzantine Periods” below.) An 8th century CE Hebrew inscription, which was the earliest known Hebrew reference to Nazareth prior to the discovery of the inscription above, uses the same form.
Origin of name
One theory holds that “Nazareth” is derived from the Hebrew noun ne·tser , נֵ֫צֶר, meaning branch.  Ne·tser  is not the common Hebrew word for “branch,” but one understood as a messianic title based on a passage in the  Book of Isaiah . The negative references to Nazareth in the  Gospel of John  suggest that ancient Jews did not connect the town’s name to prophecy. Alternately, the name may derive from the verb  na·tsar , נָצַר, “watch, guard, keep.
Another theory holds that the Greek form  Nazara , used in Matthew and Luke, may derive from an earlier  Aramaic  form of the name, or from another  Semitic  language form. If there were a  tsade  in the original Semitic form, as in the later Hebrew forms, it would normally have been transcribed in Greek with a  sigma  instead of a  zeta . This has led some scholars to question whether “Nazareth” and its cognates in the New Testament actually refer to the settlement we know traditionally as Nazareth in Lower Galilee. Such linguistic discrepancies may be explained, however, “by a peculiarity of the ‘Palestinian’ Aramaic dialect wherein a sade (ṣ) between two voiced (sonant) consonants tended to be partially assimilated by taking on a zayin (z) sound.
The Arabic name for Nazareth is  an-Nā ṣ ira , and  Jesus  ( Arabic : يسوع‎‎, Yasū`  or  Arabic : عيسى‎,  `Īsā ) is also called  an-Nā ṣ irī , reflecting the Arab tradition of according people a  nisba , a name denoting from whence a person comes in either geographical or tribal terms. In the  Koran , Christians are referred to as  nasara , meaning “followers of an-Nāṣirī,” or “those who follow Jesus.
Geography and population
Map showing the location of Nazareth in Israel
Two general locations of Nazareth are attested in the most ancient texts. The Galilean (Northern) location is familiar from the Christian gospels. However, a Southern (Judean) tradition is also attested in several early noncanonical texts.
Modern-day Nazareth is nestled in a natural bowl which reaches from 1,050 feet (320 m)  above sea level  to the crest of the hills about 1,600 feet (490 m). Nazareth is about 25 kilometres (16 mi) from the  Sea of Galilee  (17 km as the crow flies) and about 9 kilometres (5.6 mi) west from  Mount Tabor . The Nazareth Range, in which the town lies, is the southernmost of several parallel east-west hill ranges that characterize the elevated tableau of Lower Galilee.
Nazareth is the largest Arab city in Israel. Until the beginning of the British Mandate in Palestine  (1922–1948), the population was predominantly Arabic speaking Christian (majority  Greek Orthodox ), with an Arab Muslim minority. Nazareth today still has a significant Christian population, made up of  Maronites , Greek Orthodox,  Coptics , among others. The Muslim population has grown, for a number of historical factors, that include the city having served as administrative center under British rule, and the influx of internally displaced Palestinian Arabs absorbed into the city from neighbouring towns following the  1948 Palestine war . Its population remains almost exclusively Arab and numbered 64,800 in late 2009.
History
Ancient times
Archaeological research revealed a funerary and cult center at  Kfar HaHoresh , about two miles (3 km) from Nazareth, dating back roughly 9000 years (to what is known as the  Pre-Pottery Neolithic B  era).The remains of some 65 individuals were found, buried under huge horizontal headstone structures, some of which consisted of up to 3 tons of locally-produced white plaster. Decorated human skulls uncovered there have led archaeologists to believe that Kfar HaHoresh was a major cult centre in that remote era.
In 1620 the Catholic Church purchased an area in the Nazareth basin measuring approx. 100 × 150 m (328.08  ft  × 492.13 ft). on the side of the hill known as the Nebi Sa’in. This “Venerated Area” underwent extensive excavation in 1955-65 by the Franciscan priest Belarmino Bagatti, “Director of Christian Archaeology.” Fr. Bagatti has been the principal archaeologist at Nazareth. His book,  Excavations in Nazareth (1969) is still the standard reference for the archaeology of the settlement, and is based on excavations at the Franciscan Venerated Area.
Fr. Bagatti uncovered pottery dating from the Middle Bronze Age (2200 to 1500 BC) and ceramics, silos and grinding mills from the Iron Age (1500 to 586 BC), pointing to substantial settlement in the Nazareth basin at that time. However, lack of archaeological evidence from Assyrian ,  Babylonian ,  Persian ,  Hellenistic  or Early  Roman  times, at least in the major excavations between 1955 and 1990, shows that the settlement apparently came to an abrupt end about 720 BC, when many towns in the area were destroyed by the Assyrians.
Early Christian era
Church of the Annunciation
According to the  Gospel of Luke , Nazareth was the home of  Joseph and  Mary  and the site of the  Annunciation  (when Mary was told by the Angel   Gabriel  that she would have  Jesus  as her son); in the  Gospel of Matthew , Joseph and Mary resettle in Nazareth after  fleeing to Egypt from their home in  Bethlehem . The differences and possible contradictions between these two accounts of the  nativity of Jesus  are part of the  Synoptic Problem . Nazareth is also allegedly where Jesus grew up from some point in his childhood. However, some modern scholars argue that Nazareth was also the birth place of Jesus.
James Strange, an American archaeologist, notes: “Nazareth is not mentioned in ancient Jewish sources earlier than the third century AD. This likely reflects its lack of prominence both in Galilee and in Judaea. Strange originally speculated that the population of Nazareth at the time of Christ to be “roughly 1,600 to 2,000 people”, but later, in a subsequent publication, at “a maximum of about 480. In 2009 Israeli archaeologist Yardenna Alexandre excavated archaeological remains in Nazareth that might date to the time of Jesus in the early Roman period. Alexandre told reporters, “The discovery is of the utmost importance since it reveals for the very first time a house from the Jewish village of Nazareth.
According to the Israel Antiquities Authority, “The artifacts recovered from inside the building were few and mostly included fragments of pottery vessels from the Early Roman period (the first and second centuries CE)… Another hewn pit, whose entrance was apparently camouflaged, was excavated and a few pottery sherds from the Early Roman period were found inside it.” Alexandre adds that “based on other excavations that I conducted in other villages in the region, this pit was probably hewn as part of the preparations by the Jews to protect themselves during the Great Revolt against the Romans in 67 CE”.
Ancient Nazareth may have built on the hillside, as indicated in the Gospel of Luke :  [And they led Jesus] to the brow of the hill on which their city was built, that they might throw him down headlong . However, the hill in question (the Nebi Sa’in) is far too steep for ancient dwellings and averages a 14% grade in the venerated area. Historic Nazareth was essentially constructed in the valley; the windy hilltops in the vicinity have only been occupied since the construction of Nazareth Illit  in 1957. Noteworthy is that all the post-Iron Age tombs in the Nazareth basin (approximately two dozen) are of the  kokh (plural: kokhim ) or later types; this type probably first appeared in Galilee in the middle of the first century AD. Kokh tombs in the Nazareth area have been excavated by B. Bagatti, N. Feig, Z. Yavor, and noted by Z. Gal.
Excavations conducted prior to 1931 in the Franciscan venerated area revealed no trace of a Greek or Roman settlement there, Fr. Bagatti, who acted as the principal  archaeologist  for the venerated sites in Nazareth, unearthed quantities of later  Roman  and  Byzantine artifacts, attesting to unambiguous human presence there from the 2nd century AD onward.  John Dominic Crossan , a major figure in New Testament studies, remarked that Bagatti’s archaeological drawings indicate just how small the village actually was, suggesting that it was little more than an insignificant  hamlet  .
Interior of  St Joseph’s Church .
Matthew 2:19-23  reads:
After Herod died, an angel of the Lord appeared in a dream to Joseph in Egypt and said, “Get up, take the child and his mother and go to the land of Israel, for those who were trying to take the child’s life are dead.” So he got up, took the child and his mother and went to the land of Israel. But when he heard that Archelaus was reigning in Judea in place of his father Herod, he was afraid to go there. Having been warned in a dream, he withdrew to the district of Galilee, and he went and lived in a town called Nazareth. So was fulfilled what was said through the prophets: “He will be called a Nazarene.”
In the  Gospel of John ,  Nathaniel  asks, “Can anything good come out of Nazareth?” [ 1:46 ]  The meaning of this cryptic question is debated. Some commentators and scholars suggest that it means Nazareth was very small and unimportant, but the question does not speak of Nazareth’s size but of its goodness. In fact, Nazareth was described negatively by the evangelists; the  Gospel of Mark  argues that Nazareth did not believe in Jesus and therefore he could “do no mighty work there”; in the  Gospel of Luke , the Nazarenes are portrayed as attempting to kill Jesus by throwing him off a cliff; in the  Gospel of Thomas , and in all four  canonical gospels , we read the famous saying that “a prophet is not without honor except in his own country.
Many scholars since W. Wrede (in 1901) have noted the so-called Messianic secret  in the Gospel of Mark, whereby Jesus’ true nature and/or mission is portrayed as unseen by many, including by his inner circle of disciples (compare the  Gospel of John ‘s references to those to whom only the Father reveals Jesus will be saved). Nazareth, being the home of those near and dear to Jesus, apparently suffered negatively in relation to this doctrine. Thus, Nathanael’s question, “Can anything good come out of Nazareth?” is consistent with a negative view of Nazareth in the canonical gospels, and with the Johannine proclamation that  even his brothers did not believe in him .
A tablet at the Bibliothèque Nationale in Paris, dating to 50 AD, was sent from Nazareth to  Paris  in 1878. It contains an inscription known as the “Ordinance of Caesar” that outlines the penalty of death for those who violate tombs or graves. However, it is suspected that this inscription came to Nazareth from somewhere else (possibly Sepphoris ). Bagatti writes: “we are not certain that it was found in Nazareth, even though it came from Nazareth to Paris. At Nazareth there lived various vendors of antiquities who got ancient material from several places. C. Kopp is more definite: “It must be accepted with certainty that [the Ordinance of Caesar]… was brought to the Nazareth market by outside merchants.  Princeton University  archaeologist Jack Finegan describes additional archaeological evidence related to settlement in the Nazareth basin during the  Bronze  and  Iron Ages , and states that “Nazareth was a strongly  Jewish  settlement in the  Roman  period.
In the mid-1990s, shopkeeper Elias Shama discovered tunnels under his shop near  Mary’s Well  in Nazareth. The tunnels were eventually recognized as a  hypocaust  (a space below the floor into which warm air was pumped) for a bathhouse. The surrounding site was excavated in 1997-98 by Yardena Alexandre, and the archaeological remains exposed were ascertained to date from the Roman,  Crusader ,  Mamluk and  Ottoman  periods.
Nazareth in 1842
Epiphanius  writes in the  Panarion  (c. 375 AD) of a certain elderly Count Joseph of Tiberias, a wealthy imperial Roman Jew who converted to Christianity in the time of  Constantine . Count Joseph claimed that as a young man he built churches in  Sepphoris  and other towns that were inhabited only by Jews. Nazareth is mentioned, though the exact meaning is not clear. In any case, Joan Taylor writes: “It is now possible to conclude that there existed in Nazareth, from the first part of the fourth century, a small and unconventional church which encompassed a cave complex. The town was Jewish until the seventh century AD.
Although mentioned in the New Testament gospels, there are no extant non-biblical references to Nazareth until around 200 AD, when Sextus Julius Africanus , cited by  Eusebius  ( Church History  1.7.14), speaks of “Nazara” as a village in “Judea” and locates it near an as-yet unidentified “Cochaba. In the same passage Africanus writes of  desposunoi  – relatives of Jesus – who he claims  kept the records of their descent with great care . A few authors have argued that the absence of first and second century textual references to Nazareth suggest the town may not have been inhabited in Jesus’ day.Proponents of this hypothesis have sought to buttress their case with linguistic, literary and archaeological interpretations, though mainstream historians and archaeologists dismiss such views as “archaeologically unsupportable”.
Middle Roman to Byzantine periods
Greek Orthodox Church of the Annunciation
In 1960, a  Hebrew  inscription found in  Caesarea , dating to the late 3rd or early 4th century, mentions Nazareth as one of the places in which the priestly ( kohanim ) family of  Hapizzez  was residing after  Bar Kokhba’s revolt  (132-135 AD). From the three fragments that have been found, it is possible to show that the inscription was a complete list of the twenty-four priestly courses (cf.  1 Chronicles  24:7-19; Nehemiah  11;12), with each course (or family) assigned its proper order and the name of each town or village in  Galilee  where it settled. An interesting aspect of this inscription is that the name for Nazareth is not spelled with the “z” sound (as one would expect from the Greek gospels) but with the Hebrew  tsade  (thus “Nasareth” or “Natsareth”).  Eleazar Kalir  (a Hebrew Galilean poet variously dated from the sixth to tenth century A.D.) also mentions a locality clearly in the Nazareth region bearing the name Nazareth נצרת (in this case vocalized “Nitzrat”), which was home to the descendants of the 18th Kohen  clan or ‘ priestly course ‘, Happitzetz הפצץ, for at least several centuries following the  Bar Kochva  revolt.
In the 6th century, religious narrations from local Christians about the Virgin Mary  began to spark interest in the site among pilgrims, who founded the  Greek Orthodox Church of the Annunciation  at the site of a freshwater spring, today known as  Mary’s Well . In 570, the Anonymous of Piacenza  reports travelling from  Sepphoris  to Nazareth; writing of the beauty of the Hebrew women there who say that St. Mary was a relative of theirs, he notes that, “The house of St. Mary is a basilica.”
The Christian writer  Jerome , writing in the 5th century, says Nazareth was a  viculus  or mere village. The Jewish town profited from the Christian pilgrim trade which began in the fourth century, but latent anti-Christian hostility broke out in 614 AD when the  Persians  invaded Palestine. At that time, according to C. Kopp writing in 1938, the Jewish residents of Nazareth helped the Persians slaughter the Christians in the land. When the  Byzantine or Eastern Roman emperor Heraclius ejected the Persians from Palestine in 630 AD, he singled out Nazareth for special punishment and imposed forced exile upon the Jewish families. At this time the town ceased to be Jewish.
Islamic rule
Nazareth, postcard by Fadil Saba
Old postcard of Nazareth women, based on photo by Félix Bonfils
The Muslim conquest of Palestine in 637 AD introduced Islam to the region. Over the next four centuries Islam was adopted by a significant portion of the population, though a significant Arab Christian minority remained. With outbreak of the First Crusade , an extended period of conflict began in which control shifted several times between the local Saracens and Europeans. Control over Galilee and Nazareth shifted frequently during this time, with corresponding impact on the religious makeup of the population.
In 1099 AD, the Crusader  Tancred  captured Galilee and established his capital in Nazareth. The ancient diocese of  Scythopolis  was also relocated under the  Archbishop of Nazareth , one of the four archdioceses in the  Kingdom of Jerusalem . The town returned to Muslim control in 1187 AD following the victory of  Saladin  in the  Battle of Hattin . The remaining Crusaders and European clergy were forced to leave town. Frederick II  managed to negotiate safe passage for pilgrims from Acre in 1229, and in 1251,  Louis IX , the king of France, attended mass in the grotto, accompanied by his wife.
In 1263,  Baybars , the  Mamluk Sultan , destroyed the Christian buildings in Nazareth and declared the site off-limits to Latin clergy, as part of his bid to drive out the remaining Crusaders from Palestine. [60]  While Arab Christian families continued to live in Nazareth, its status was reduced to that of a poor village. Pilgrims who visited the site in 1294 reported only a small church protecting the grotto.
In the 14th century, monks from the Franciscan Order were permitted to return and resided within the ruins of the Basilica, but they were eventually evicted again in 1584. [60]  In 1620,  Fakhr-al-Din II , a  Druze emir  who controlled this part of  Ottoman Syria  rule, permitted them to return to build a small church at the Grotto of the Annunciation. Pilgrimage tours to surrounding sacred sites were also organized by the Franciscans from this point forward, but the monks suffered harassment from surrounding  Bedouin  tribes who often kipnapped them for ransom. [60]  Stability returned with the rule of  Daher el-Omar , a powerful local  sheikh  who ruled over much of the Galilee and who authorized the Franciscans to build a church in 1730. That structure stood until 1955, when it was demolished to make way for the building a larger structure which was completed in 1967.
Nazareth was captured by the troops of  Napoleon Bonaparte  in 1799, during his  Syrian campaign . Napoleon visited the holy sites and considered appointing his general Junot as the duke of Nazareth.During the rule of  Ibrahim Pasha  (1830–1840), the Egyptian general, over much of  Ottoman Syria , Nazareth was open to European missionaries and traders. After the Ottomans regained control, European money continued to flow into Nazareth and a number of institutions were established. The Christians of Naareth were protected during the pogroms of 1860s by the dominant rule of Aghil Agha, the Bedouin leader who exercised control over the political and security situation in the Galilee between 1845 and 1870.
Kaloost Varstan, an  Armenian  from  Istanbul , arrived in 1864 and established the first medical missionary in Nazareth, the Scottish “hospital on the hill”, with sponsorship from the  Edinburgh Medical Missionary Society . The Ottoman Sultan, who favored the French, allowed them to establish an orphanage, the Society of Saint Francis de Sale. By the late 19th century, Nazareth was a town with a strong Arab Christian presence and a growing European community, where a number of communal projects were undertaken and new religious buildings were erected.
Modern era
District court of Nazareth
Nazareth was in the territory allotted to the Arab state under the  1947 UN Partition Plan . The town was not a field of battle during  1948 Arab-Israeli War  before the first truce on 11 June, although some of the villagers had joined the loosely organized peasant military and paramilitary forces, and troops from the  Arab Liberation Army  had entered Nazareth. During the ten days of fighting which occurred between the first and second truce, Nazareth capitulated to Israeli troops during  Operation Dekel  on 16 June, after little more than token resistance. The surrender was formalized in a written agreement, where the town leaders agreed to cease hostilities in return for promises from the Israeli officers, including brigade commander  Ben Dunkelman  (the leader of the operation), that no harm would come to the civilians of the town.
Preparations for the  Pope ‘s visit to Nazareth in 2000 triggered highly publicized tensions related to the  Basilica of the Annunciation . The 1997 permission for construction of a paved plaza to handle the expected thousands of Christian pilgrims caused Muslim protests and occupation of the proposed site, which is considered the grave of a nephew of Saladin. This site used to be the home of a school built during the Ottoman rule. The school was named al-Harbyeh (in Arabic means military), and many elderly people in Nazareth still remember it as the school site, nevertheless, the same site still contains,the Shihab-Eddin shrine, along with several shops owned by the  waqf (Muslim community ownership). The school building continued to serve as a government school until it was demolished to allow for the plaza to be built.
The initial argument between the different political factions in town (represented in the local council), was on where the borders of the shrine and shops starts and where it ends. The initial government approval of subsequent plans for a large mosque to be constructed at the site led to protests from Christian leaders worldwide, which continued after the papal visit. Finally, in 2002, a special government commission permanently halted construction of the mosque.
Arab citizens of Israel
Politics
Balad  (al-Tajamu)
Hadash  (al-Jabha)
United Arab List
(Hezb al-Democraty al-Arabi)
Avoda  ·   Kadima  ·   Likud
Abnaa el-Balad
Internally Displaced Palestinians
The Koenig Memorandum
Land Day
October 2000 events
Religion
Al-Aqsa Mosque
Dome of the Rock
Basilica of the Annunciation
Mary’s Well
St. George’s Orthodox Church
Church of the Holy Sepulchre
Culture
Music  ·   Dance  ·   Cuisine
Palestinian Arabic
Negev Bedouins
Major population centers
Nazareth  ·   Umm al-Fahm  ·   Rahat
Tayibe  ·   Shefa-’Amr  ·   Baqa-Jatt
Shaghur  ·   Tamra  ·   Sakhnin
Carmel City  ·   Tira  ·   Arraba
Personalities
Hiam Abbass  ·   Hany Abu-Assad
Mohammed Bakri  ·   Azmi Bishara
Emile Habibi  ·   Samih al-Qasim
Abbas Suan  ·   Elia Suleiman
Hisham Zreiq    ·   Ali Suliman
See also  Template:Palestinians
This box:  view  •  talk  •  edit
In March 2006, public protests that followed the disruption of a Lenten prayer service by an Israeli Jew and his Christian wife and daughter, who detonated incendiary devices inside the church, succeeded in dismantling a temporary wall that had been erected around the public square that had been constructed but had yet to be unveiled, putting an end to the entire controversy.
On 19 July 2006 a rocket fired by  Hezbollah  as part of the  2006 Israel-Lebanon conflict  killed two children in Nazareth. No holy sites were damaged.
In 2007, a group of Christian businessmen declared plans to build the largest cross in the world (60 m (196.85  ft ) high) in Nazareth as the childhood town of Jesus.
Demographics
According to the  Israel Central Bureau of Statistics , Nazareth had a population of approximately 65,000 in 2005. The vast majority of its residents are  Arab citizens of Israel , 31.3% of whom are  Christians and 68.7% of whom are  Muslims . [66]  Nazareth forms a  metropolitan area  with the Arab  local councils  of  Yafa an-Naseriyye  to the south, Reineh ,  Mashhad  and  Kafr Kanna  to the north,  Iksal  and the adjacent Jewish cities of  Nazareth Illit  to the east which has a population of 41,000  Jews  and  Migdal HaEmek  to the west with a population of 25,000  Jews . Together, the Nazareth metropolis area has a population of approximately 210,000 of which over 125,000 (59%) are Israeli Arabs, and 85,000 are Israeli Jews (41%), making it the only urban area with over 50,000 residents in Israel where the majority of the population is  Arabic .
While the two communities of Muslims and Christians tend to get along, they also have come into sporadic conflict. Muslim activists outraged Christians when they built an unauthorized mosque next to the Basilica of the Annunciation, where Christians believe the Angel Gabriel foretold the birth of Jesus to Mary. Israel later tore down the mosque in 2003. Muslim activists also have periodically marched through the city in shows of strength meant to intimidate Christians.
Religious shrines
Nazareth is home to at least 23 monasteries and churches. Many of the older churches are located in the Old City.
The  Church of the Annunciation  is the largest Christian church building in the Middle East. In  Roman Catholic  tradition, it marks the site where the Archangel  Gabriel  announced the future birth of  Jesus  to the  Virgin Mary  (Luke 1:26-31).
The  Eastern Orthodox Church  constructed  St. Gabriel’s Church  at an alternative site for the Annunciation.
The  Melkite Greek Catholic Church  owns the Synagogue Church, which is located at the traditional site of the synagogue where Jesus preached (Luke 4)
The Church of St. Joseph’s Carpentry occupies the traditional location for the workshop of  Saint Joseph
The  Mensa Christi Church , run by the  Franciscan  religious order, commemorates the traditional location where Jesus dined with the Apostles after his Resurrection
The Basilica of Jesus the Adolescent, run by the  Salesian religious order, occupies a hill overlooking the city.
The  Church of Christ  is an Anglican church in Nazareth.
There are also a number of  mosques  in Nazareth, the oldest of which is the  White Mosque , located in  Harat Alghama  (“Mosque Quarter”) in the center of Nazareth’s Old Market.
White Mosque (Nazareth)
White Mosque
The White Mosque
Basic information
Location
Nazareth ,  Israel
Affiliation
Islam
Architectural description
Architectural type
Mosque
Architectural style
Ottoman
Year completed
1804-1808
Specifications
Minaret (s)
1
The  White Mosque  ( Arabic : المسجد الأبيض‎) is the oldest  mosque  in  Nazareth , Israel  and is located in  Harat Alghama  or the “Mosque Quarter” in the center of Nazareth’s Old Market. Its exquisite pencil-shaped minaret ,cream-coloured walls, green trim and green dome are just one example of the  Ottoman  architecture common throughout the city.
History and ownership
The construction of the mosque was funded by the  Egyptian  ruler Suleiman Pasha  in the latter half of the eighteenth century, and overseen by the high commissioner of Nazareth, Sheikh Abdullah al-Fahoum. The mosque was completed between 1804 and 1808 and Sheikh Abdullah was granted trusteeship over it in the form of a  waqf and administered it until the time of his death in 1815. The tomb of Sheikh Abdullah is in the mosque’s courtyard.
After Sheikh Abdullah’s death, the managing of the mosque’s affairs were transferred to Sheikh Amin al-Fahoum. Presently, the mosque continues to form part of the al-Fahoum family waqf, which also includes the  khan  of the pasha on Casa Nova street. It is administered by one of Sheikh Abdullah’s descendants, ‘Atif al-Fahoum.
The mosque was named by Sheikh Abdullah to mark the end of the reign of the former Ottoman governor,  Jezzar Pasha , predecessor to Suleiman Pasha. Sheikh Abdullah chose “white” to symbolize a new era of purity, light and peace to be enjoyed between the faiths in Nazareth.
Community use
On a regular day, between 100 to 200 persons attend the noon and afternoon prayer services, while the Friday sermon is attended by 2,000 to 3,000 people.
The mosque serves Nazareth’s  Muslim  community by offering religious classes for young men and sponsoring the Muslim scout troop in which 400 boys and girls ages 9 and older participate. The mosque also houses a museum with exhibits that document Nazareth’s history.
References
^  a   b   c   d   e   f   g  Chad F. Emmett (1995). Beyond the Basilica: Christians and Muslims in Nazareth.  University of Chicago Press . p. 136–138.  ISBN   0226207110 .
^  a   b   c   d   e   “Nazareth: The Mosque Quarter” . Discover Israel. http://www.ddtravel-acc.com/nazareth.htm . Retrieved 2007-12-01.
^   “Galilee:Nazareth” . ThinkIsrael.com. http://www.goisrael.com/NR/exeres/39B6F59F-DDA1-4568-8669-F2944873B785.htm . Retrieved 2007-12-01.
Share this: Twitter Facebook Like this: Like
Loading...
Related
This entry was posted on February 10, 2012 at 3:05 pm and is filed under
WORLD'S HISTORY
.						You can follow any responses to this entry through the
RSS 2.0
feed.
You can
leave a response , or
trackback
from your own site.
Leave a Reply
Cancel reply
Enter your comment here...
Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:
Email
(required)
(Address never made public)
Name
(required)
Website
You are commenting using your WordPress.com account.
(  Log Out  /  Change  )
You are commenting using your Twitter account.
(  Log Out  /  Change  )
You are commenting using your Facebook account.
(  Log Out  /  Change  )
You are commenting using your Google+ account.
(  Log Out  /  Change  )
Cancel
Connecting to %s
Notify me of new comments via email.
Blog at WordPress.com .
The Black-LetterHead Theme .
Follow
Follow “2eyeswatching”
Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.
Join 80 other followers
Build a website with WordPress.com
%d
bloggers like this: