Books
Wilshire Boulevard
Day 1:
Financial District,
Westlake, Koreatown
©
2007 by John Varley; all rights reserved
Sunset Boulevard
… been there, done
that. Twenty-six miles from the river to the ocean.
Los Angeles River
… been there,
done that. Fifty-two miles from
Canoga Park
to
Long Beach .
Santa Catalina Island
… been there, done that. Twenty-six miles across the sea. Not much
of a walk, but we deserved it after walking every mile of the Los
Angeles River.
So, what’s next? We
need a project, just walking around your own neighborhood, the same
streets over and over, gets old pretty quick. But you can’t let the
moss grow on your back, nor the grass under your feet, or you’ll
soon be ready for the rocking chair, then the wheelchair, then the
Do Not Resuscitate sign on the foot of your bed. That’s the ultimate
destiny of all of us unless we get run over by a truck, but you want
to put it off as long as possible.
I briefly
considered
Mulholland Drive , which winds along the spine of the
Santa Monica Mountains
not far from us. It offers spectacular views
of the
Los Angeles Basin
and the
San Fernando Valley . But much of it
is too up-and-down for my arthritic knees and hips to bear, and
there are no sidewalks. I don’t think we want to face cars coming
around mountain curves 100 times a day. That’s not my idea of fun.
So it’s going to
be
Wilshire . It’s about as cosmopolitan as a street can get, urban
all the way except where it goes through a few manicured parks and
country clubs. Until they built all the skyscrapers on
Bunker Hill
downtown, it also sported some of the bigger buildings in LA. From a
high vantage point, like the
Getty Center , you can pick out Wilshire
by the clumps of tall buildings along the
Miracle Mile ,
Wilshire
Center , and
Century City . Plus, it has excellent express bus
service, so we can walk as far as I can stand it and then take the
bus back to the car. I really hate backtracking.
Some have called
Wilshire Boulevard “The backbone of Los Angeles.” The city used to
pretty much end at
MacArthur Park , which at the time was called
Westlake Park. Then they built a causeway over the lake and extended
Wilshire to meet the former Orange Street, which was re-named, and
now reaches the ocean. It’s probably the busiest street in Los
Angeles.
It begins at the
south end of Bunker Hill, formerly the site of the mansions of the
city’s rich folks, now the home to glass business towers and,
increasingly, condos. Unlike the numbered streets that run east and
west through downtown, Wilshire come to an abrupt stop at the
One
Wilshire Building . We parked near the
7th/Metro station ,
where the
Blue Line
trains meet the
Red line , and walked a few
blocks east and north to One Wilshire, and headed west.
For the first four
blocks there’s pretty much nothing but skyscrapers, though if you
look north at the first block, Hope Street, you will see the
beautiful and completely restored (after an awful fire in 1986)
Main
Library Building , which is definitely worth a visit. Not a lot to
say about most of the other buildings except that they are tall.
Well, some of them have some pretty nice fountains, but it’s
basically an anti-human environment. But as soon as you cross the
110 Freeway
things get down to a more manageable scale, though there
are still some pretty awful buildings. One 40-or-so-story triangular
glass sliver might as well have a sign on it: “Exactly The Sort of
Place John and Lee Would Hate Living In.” Windows you can’t open?
Ten stories of parking before you get to the condos? Sorry. Not even
the pool on the roof would tempt me to live there, even if I could
afford it.
We started off
hungry, which is not our normal practice. Usually we walk, then eat.
But soon we came to a place I’d been wanting to try,
La Parilla
(The
Grill), which is in a very weird building that looks like it sort of
just grew over the years. It might have begun as a house. It has
conical turrets here and there, and some of the interior looks as if
it might have been living rooms and hallways and such. They have a
terrific menu and the food is much better than you usually get in
American/Mexican places. A sign says the
LATimes
picked them as the best downtown-area Mexican restaurant, and I can
believe it. (No way to pick a Best in LA Mex place, there are a
billion of them.) Their specialties are
molcajetes , which seem to be
mixed dishes served in those stone grinders, and
paradilladas
(mixed
grills), served for two, at around $30 and up! We had stuff off the
regular menu, enchiladas suizas for me and barbecued ribs for Lee.
After we ate we
went exploring the maze-like building. The interior is very pretty.
There is an airy patio where they make the tortillas by hand. The
walls are painted with the stuff you’d expect, scenes of small
villages, senoritas in colorful skirts, and even items off the menu.
But then there is the
Charlie Chaplin
Banquet Room. Now, there’s no
reason why a Mexican restaurant
shouldn’t
honor the
little tramp … but it’s not what you’d expect, is it? There is a
mural of Chaplin sitting at a table with
Frida Kahlo
(have you
noticed that ten years ago nobody knew who she was, and now you
can’t visit an Hispanic establishment without seeing her picture?),
Cantinflas ,
Pancho Villa , and … is that
Rita Hayworth ? I can’t tell
who the other woman is, either, except she looks a lot like the
Virgin Mary .
They served us
an orange tortilla that was very good and tasted vaguely like
pumpkin. We asked the waiter what was in it … and his Eenglish, it
not so good, he no could esplain … so we said never mind. A few
minutes later he was back with a lump of dough and a saucer of the
excellent hot salsa we’d been eating. He started to mix the salsa
into the dough, and presto! It turned orange. For going this extra
mile for us we increased our already generous tip another 5%.
Pretty soon you
come to what is probably the most downscale part of Wilshire:
Westlake
and
MacArthur Park . Which is not to say it’s cheap. It used
to be a real bad area, but it’s been cleaned up a lot. (When they
drained the lake to construct the Red Line tunnel that now goes
beneath it, guess what they found? Hundreds and hundreds of
handguns, no doubt tossed in there because they were too hot to
keep, having been used to murder somebody.) Signs at the park
entrances today warn you that dealing in
cocaine , cocaine base,
heroin , etc., will get you an extra year in the hoosegow. Lee
pointed out that that just means the dealers have to move across the
street, which they probably did, but at least it keeps them out of
the park. The sidewalks swarm with vendors and a continuous crush of
pedestrians. Regular people, families, use the park now, not just
thugs. They’ve even brought back the paddleboats. But I understand
it’s still the place to go to buy phony ID, and there’s a thriving
market in bootleg DVDs.
Westlake was
originally a swanky area because of its proximity to downtown jobs,
with big
beaux-arts
apartment buildings, most of which are still
there, still looking imposing and gorgeous, though some of them have
been subdivided into cheaper, smaller accommodations. There was a
large Jewish population. Later a large Filipino community developed
in the north part. Lately, it’s become home to Salvadorans and
Guatemalans, and is the most densely populated neighborhood of LA.
They still have jobs downtown, sweeping up and running parking lots
and being security guards.
About a block north
of the park is the Park Plaza Hotel, which apparently isn’t being
used as a hotel anymore. It’s a glorious building, with terra cotta
figures at all corners and a grand lobby with a wide staircase, and
ballrooms off to each side and upstairs. Lee managed to snap a few
pictures before a security guard told her there was no photography
allowed. We’re running into that a lot these days. I guess I look
like Osama, or something.
Next is
Lafayette
Park , right on the edge of the
Wilshire Center
neighborhood. The
park is almost all playing fields of one sort or another. The
landmark building in this area is the old
Bullock’s department
store , now a law school. This is where we rode up to the highest
floor available to the public and saw Wilshire filled side to side
as far as the eye could see in either direction with marchers
peacefully protesting immigration policy. The estimates ran as high
as half a million people, and I believe it. Probably half of those
were here illegally. And you tell me you figure we can solve the
problem by sending them all back home? What are you
smokin’ ,
dog? I just learned that at least 500,000 of these illegals in
America work for … wait for it …
the federal government !
At least their SS numbers don’t match up. Oh, boy, you think you
want less government, do you? See what happens when the brown people
who do the grunt work all get deported. You ain’t even
imagined
chaos yet …
Enough of that. You
gotta love old buildings like this. It has a tower that you can
pretty much see right through. Looks like there are stairs in it. It
really can’t ever have had much use, unless it was for Mr. Bullock’s
office, where he could piss down on the peons below. But I think it
was erected simply for the joy and beauty of the thing. It is made
of real stone, with copper highlights the same color as the
Statue
of Liberty . This was the flagship store of the luxury chain that was
looted, gutted, and dismantled by
corporate raiders
sometime in the
‘80s. They managed to run a highly profitable enterprise into
bankruptcy, disastrous mergers with
I. Magnin
and
Federated , and
killed the whole thing off in just a few years.
Capitalism
at its
finest! Not that I’d ever have shopped there. This was the kind of
store where they’d sit you down in a comfortable easy chair with a
glass of champagne while models paraded the outfits in front of you.
Pretty much right
across the street from this magnificent old lady is the Red Line
Wilshire/Vermont station , which is cleverly hidden (just on the off
chance that an out-of-towner might try to find it) in a spanking new
7-story urban monad of astonishing sterility. Oh, all right, they
spruced up one end with a colorful op-art mural that seems to show a
thumb on the edge of cereal bowl. And okay, it’s pretty much empty
right now, all the ground-floor shops vacant, no sign of life in the
half-mirrored windows above … but after people move in, there will
still
be no sign of life. There are no balconies.
What’s with that, architects? Here we are in one of the most
hospitable climates in the world, and you keep throwing up these
boxes for people to “live” in that take absolutely no advantage of
that. Even the little postage-stamp balconies on so many SoCal
buildings are better than nothing. There’s room for a couple of
chairs and a potted plant or two, and you can sit outside in the
sunshine and smog. How expensive could it be to add that little
humanizing touch to your soulless cubes?
This is the eastern
edge of the neighborhood known as
Koreatown , where signs in Korean
far outnumber the signs in English or Spanish, and the end of the
line for us on the first day. We boarded the train and rode it back
to the 7th Street station, and then home.
September 3 , 2007
Back to
VarleyYarns
or
Home