The Archangel Michael [Religion, Theology, relevant history]: 2010 Copiapó mining accident
skip to main
|
skip to sidebar
The Archangel Michael [Religion, Theology, relevant history]
Constructing and interpreting under adverse conditions deprivation of civil right and deprivation of human rights. Violations of first and fourteenth
amendment rights. Simple and necessary medical treatments denied. Medicine denied through tampering. repeated toxic exposures. 1995- present with varying and increasing extremes. Under construction with errors.
Documentation chosen by available sources and may not be 100% accurate or may contain omissions, slants, or extraneous information
Pages
Home
Written in the Book of life of the lamb
The law of Love and the strait gate
The Spirit of truth, Belief, the seal of the livin...
The Word and the Son Perfect in One with God the F...
Translation of the World, the Kingdom
The dragon, the beast, and the false prophet
INDEX-Assorted
The Archangel Christ Michael The man clothed with ...
Fear God
(UNDER CONSTRUCTION)
FEAR GOD
Revelation 14 :
7
And I saw another angel fly in the
midst of heaven, having the everlasting gospel to preach unto them that dwell on
the earth, and to every nation, an d kindred, an d tongue,
and people,
7 Saying with a loud voice,
Fear God, and give glory to him; for the hour of his
judgment is come: and worship him that made heaven, and earth, and the sea, and
the fountains of waters.
8 And there followed another angel,
saying, Babylon is fallen, is fallen, that great city, because she made all
nations drink of the wine of the wrath of her fornication.
8 And there followed another angel,
saying, Babylon is fallen, is fallen, that great city, because she made all
nations drink of the wine of the wrath of her fornication.
9 And the third angel followed them,
saying with a loud voice, If any man worship the beast and his image, and
receive
his
mark in his forehead, or in his hand,
10 The same shall drink of the wine of the
wrath of God, which is poured out without mixture into the cup of his
indignation; and he shall be tormented with fire and brimstone in the presence
of the holy angels, and in the presence of the Lamb:
11 And the smoke of their torment
ascendeth up for ever and ever: and they have no rest day nor night, who worship
the beast and his image, and whosoever receiveth the mark of his name.
12 Here is the patience of the saints:
here
are
they that keep the commandments of
God, and the faith of Jesus.
Ecclesiastes 12 : 13
Let us hear the conclusion of the
whole matter:
Fear God, and
keep his commandments: for this
is
the whole
duty
of man. 14 For God shall bring every work into
judgment, with
every secret thing, whether
it be
good, or whether
it be
evil.
Universality and Cosmology
ANALYZING UNDERLYING IMPETUSES AS REFLECTED IN
HISTORY (1840's-present)
Religion
Civil
Rights
Science and Technology
Space
Forms of
government
Wars and conflicts
Crimes against humanity
Literature
Entertainment
Universitarianism reflected in religions, military, and
politics. (1800's) III
1833
(1)
1836
(1)
1844
(11)
1848
(2)
1850
(1)
1866
(1)
1898
(1)
Brigham Young
(1)
Charles Taze Russell
(1)
Charles Whitman
(1)
Civil Rights Act of 1866
(2)
Compromise of 1850
(2)
Daniel Webster
(1)
Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial
Countries and Peoples
(1)
Dmitri Mendeleev
(2)
Evolution of the British Empire
(1)
General Mills
(1)
George Orwell
(1)
Great Flood of 1844
(1)
H. G. Wells
(1)
Joseph Smith Jr.
(1)
Kolob
(1)
military and religion
(1)
Military and Religion
(1)
Slavery Abolition Act 1833
(1)
The Devil and Daniel Webster
(1)
The New World Order (Wells)
(1)
The War of the Worlds
(1)
The War of the Worlds (radio)
(1)
Will Keith Kellogg
(1)
William Miller (preacher)
(1)
Wednesday, November 10, 2010
2010 Copiapó mining accident
2010 Copiapó mining accident From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to:
navigation ,
search
"Copiapó mining accident" redirects here. For the 2006 accident in the Carola-Agustina mine, see
2006 Copiapó mining accident . 2010 Copiapó mining accident
Rescue efforts at San José Mine near Copiapó, Chile on 10 August 2010
Date
5 August 2010  ( 2010-08-05 )   – 13 October 2010  ( 2010-10-13 )
(69 days)
Time
14:05
CLT
( UTC −4)
Location
Atacama Desert
near
Copiapó ,
Chile
Coordinates
27°9′36.73″S
70°29′48.4″W ﻿ / ﻿ 27.1602028°S 70.496778°W ﻿ /
-27.1602028; -70.496778 Coordinates :
27°9′36.73″S
70°29′48.4″W ﻿ / ﻿ 27.1602028°S 70.496778°W ﻿ /
-27.1602028; -70.496778
First reporter
San Esteban
Mining Company
Outcome
All 33 trapped miners rescued by government
Reported injuries
0
Reported death(s)
0
Reported property damage
Total closure and loss
as of August 2010 [update]
Inquiries
Under investigation
as of August 2010 [update]
Charges
Under investigation
as of August 2010 [update]
Convictions
Under investigation
as of August 2010 [update]
Litigation
US$2 million lawsuit
as of August 2010 [update]
Awards
In litigation
as of August 2010 [update]
Website
Ministry of Mining, Chile
Mina San José
Santiago Location of the Mina San José in Chile
The
2010 Copiapó
mining accident
occurred on 5 August 2010, when part of the
San José
copper - gold
mine
in the
Atacama Desert
near
Copiapó ,
Chile ,
collapsed , leaving 33 men trapped 700 metres (2,300 ft) below ground. [ 1 ]
The miners survived underground for a
record
69 days. [ 2 ]
All 33 were rescued and brought to the surface on 13 October 2010; the first miner emerged from the
Fénix 2
rescue capsule
at 00:10
CLDT
and the last at 21:55 CLDT. After the last trapped miner was
winched
to the surface, the rescue workers held up a sign stating " Misión cumplida Chile " (English: " Mission accomplished Chile ") to the estimated more than 1 billion people watching the rescue on live television around the world. [ 3 ]
The San José Mine is about 45 kilometres (28 mi) north of Copiapó, in northern Chile. [ 4 ]
The miners were trapped approximately 5 kilometres (3 mi) from the mine
entrance. The mine had a history of instability that had led to
previous accidents, including one death. [ 5 ] [ 6 ] [ 7 ]
The retrieval of the first miner, Florencio Ávalos, began on Tuesday,
12 October at 23:55 CLDT, with the rescue capsule reaching the surface
16 minutes later. [ 8 ] [ 9 ]
Less than twenty-four hours later, at 21:55 CLDT on 13 October, all 33
miners had been rescued, almost all in good medical condition, and
expected to recover fully. Two miners were suffering from
silicosis , one of whom also had
pneumonia , and others were suffering from
dental infections
and
corneal problems . [ 10 ]
Three of the rescued miners had immediate surgery under
general anesthesia
for dental problems. [ 11 ]
The total cost of the rescue operation was estimated at
US$ 20 million, a third covered by private donations with the rest coming from state-owned mining corporation
Codelco
and the government itself. [ 12 ]
Contents [ show ] 1
Background
2
Accident
2.1
Initial information
2.2
Trapped group
3
Search and rescue attempts
3.1
Ventilation shaft
3.2
Exploratory boreholes
3.3
Discovery
4
Survival
4.1
The video
4.2
Leadership
4.3
Key members of the trapped group
5
Health of the miners
6
Religious aspects
7
Camp Hope and the families
8
Rescue plans
8.1
Drilling plans
8.1.1
Plan A
8.1.2
Plan B
8.1.3
Plan C
8.2
Drilling results
8.3
Extraction plans
8.3.1
Fénix rescue capsule
8.3.2
Extraction preparation
9
Rescue – "Operación San Lorenzo"
9.1
Extraction
9.1.1
Procedure
9.2
Rescue
9.3
Order of miners and rescuers
10
Reaction to the rescue
11
Miners post-rescue
11.1
Health concerns
11.2
Activities
12
Aftermath of the accident
12.1
Political
12.2
Legal
12.3
Monument and legacy
13
Social impact
14
Timeline of events
15
See also
16
References
17
External links
17.1
Official government websites
17.2
Photos
17.3
Videos
Background
Satellite image of the
San José mine
and its surroundings See also:
Mining in Chile Chile has a long tradition in mining, which developed during the 20th century and made the country the world's
top producer
of
copper . [ citation needed ]
Since 2000, an average of 34 people have died every year in mining
accidents in Chile, with a high of 43 in 2008, according to a review of
data collected by the state regulatory agency
National Geology and Mining Service
Spanish :
Servicio Nacional de Geología y Minería de Chile
abbreviated as SERNAGEOMIN). [ 13 ]
The mine is owned by
San Esteban Mining Company , ( Spanish :
Compañía Minera San Esteban
abbreviated as
CMSE ), a company that is notoriously dangerous in the mineral-rich region and, according to an official with the
non-profit
Chilean Safety Association , ( Spanish :
Asociación Chilena de Seguridad , also known as
ACHS ) eight workers have died at the mine in 12 years. [ 4 ] [ 6 ] [ 14 ] [ 15 ]
Between 2004 and 2010, the company received 42 fines for breaching safety regulations. [ 6 ]
The San Jose Mine was shut down in 2007 when relatives of a miner who
had died in an accident sued company executives, but was reopened in
2008 [ 5 ] [ 6 ]
despite failing to comply with all regulations, a matter which is still under investigation according to mining committee
Senator
Baldo Prokurica. [ 16 ]
Due to budget constraints there were only three inspectors for the
Atacama Region 's 884 mines. [ 6 ]
CMSE had ignored warnings over unsafe working conditions in its
mines. CMSE's management operates "without listening to the voice of the
workers when they say that there is danger or risk," said Javier
Castillo, secretary of the
trade union
that represents miners at the San José mine. "Nobody listens to us.
Then they say we're right. If they would have believed the workers, we
would not be lamenting this now," said Gerardo Núñez, head of the union
at a nearby Candelaria Norte mine. [ 17 ]
Chilean copper mine workers are among the highest-paid miners in
South America . [ 18 ]
Although the accident itself has put into question mine safety in
Chile, serious accidents in large mines are rare, particularly in those
owned by the state copper mining company, Codelco, or by
multinational companies . [ 19 ]
However, smaller mines such as the one at San José have generally lower safety standards. [ 19 ]
Mine workers at this mine were paid around 20% higher wages than at other Chilean mines, due to its poor safety record. [ 10 ] [ 19 ] [ 20 ]
Accident Initial information
Abstract
diagram of the accident (Not to scale - depths are metres
AMSL ) The collapse occurred on 5 August 2010, at 14:00
CLT
as reported by the owners, the
San Esteban Mining Company
(CMSE), the Ministry of Labour and Social Welfare, the Chilean
Undersecretary of Mining and the director of the SERNAGEOMIN (the
National Mining and Geology Service). [ 21 ]
The
Oficina Nacional de Emergencias del Ministerio del Interior
(ONEMI – National Emergencies Office of the Interior Ministry) reported
that day the names of the 33 miners trapped in the mine", [ 22 ]
including
Franklin Lobos , a retired Chilean footballer. [ 21 ]
One of the miners (Carlos Mamani) was
Bolivian
while the others were all of Chilean nationality. [ 23 ]
Chilean Minister of Mining
Laurence Golborne
was in
Ecuador
at the time of the disaster and arrived at the site on 7 August. [ 21 ]
When the
cave-in
occurred there were two groups of workers in the mine; one was near the
entrance and escaped immediately without incident. The group of 33 men
was deep inside the mine and included several subcontracted mechanics
who would not normally have been with the group. [ 24 ]
The rock fall caused a thick dust cloud that blinded the miners for up
to six hours and caused lingering eye irritation and burning. [ 25 ]
Its workings are reached by a long sloping roadway with many irregular spiral turns, [ 26 ]
not by a vertical
mineshaft .
Trapped group The trapped miners initially tried to escape through a ventilation
shaft system, but the ladders required by mining safety codes were
missing. (The shafts later became inaccessible to rescue teams due to
subsequent ground movements). [ 27 ]
The company had failed to install the escape ladders which had been
stipulated as a condition of restarting operations after authorities had
closed the accident-plagued 100-year-old mine. [ 6 ]
The shift supervisor, Luis Urzúa, recognizing the gravity of the
situation and the difficulty involved in any rescue attempt, gathered
his men in a secure room called a " refuge "
and organized the men and meager resources for long-term survival.
Experienced miners were sent out to assess the situation, men with
important skills were given key roles, and numerous other measures were
taken to ensure the survival of the men. [ 28 ]
Search and rescue attempts Ventilation shaft
President Piñera holds the message sent by the miners with Mining Minister Goldborne (red jacket, blue shirt) Mine rescuers
attempted to bypass the rockfall at the main entryway through
alternative passages but each route was blocked by fallen rock or
threatened by ongoing rock movement. A second collapse occurred at the
mine on 7 August when rescuers were forced to use heavy machinery while
trying to gain access via a ventilation shaft. [ 29 ]
Out of concern that additional attempts pursuing this route would cause further
geological
movement within the mine, attempts to reach the trapped miners through
previously existing shafts were halted and other means to find the men
were sought. [ 30 ]
The accident followed closely on the heels of sharp criticism of the government's handling of the latest major
Chilean earthquake
and tsunami, and as a consequence of the worsening situation and
increasing concern from the Chilean populace who were deeply sympathetic
to the plight of the miners and their families, President
Piñera
returned to Chile early, before the start of the presidential inauguration of
Juan Manuel Santos
in
Colombia , to travel to the mine. [ 31 ]
Exploratory boreholes Percussion drills
were used to make eight exploratory
boreholes
about 15 centimeters (5.9 in) wide to find the miners. [ 32 ]
The rescue effort was complicated by out-of-date maps of the mine shafts and several boreholes drifting off-target [ 33 ]
because of the extreme drilling depth and the notoriously
hard rock
that exacerbated the drill's tendency to drift. [ 34 ]
On 19 August, the 14th day of the rescue operation, one of the probes
reached a space where the miners were believed to be trapped but found
no signs of life. [ 35 ]
The search and rescue operation was led by Engineer André Sougarret, head of
El Teniente Mine
of
Codelco , Chile's state owned copper corporation. [ 36 ]
Discovery
Digital representation of the note sent by the miners. On 22 August at 07:15
CLT , the eighth borehole, drilled by
TerraServices , using a
Schramm
T685 WS drill drilling a 5½-inch hole, broke through. [ 37 ]
It reached a ramp, at 688 meters (2,257 ft) underground, about 20 meters (66 ft) from an
emergency shelter
room where the miners were expected to have taken refuge. [ 38 ]
The miners had heard the drills approaching for days and had prepared notes which they attached to the tip of the drill with
insulation tape
when it poked into their space. Though the drilling engineers had
thought they heard tapping on the drill tip, they were surprised to
discover the notes when the drill bit was pulled out, as the miners had
survived for 17 days, much longer than anyone had expected. [ 39 ]
At 15:17
CLDT , President
Sebastián Piñera
showed the media a note written on a piece of paper with a red marker that confirmed the miners were alive. The note read:
"Estamos bien en el refugio los 33"
(English: "We are alright in the shelter, the 33 [of us]"). Those words became an
emblem
of the miners' survival and the rescue effort, appearing on websites, banners and
t-shirts . [ 40 ]
Hours later,
video cameras
sent down the
borehole
made contact with the trapped miners, capturing the first grainy,
black-and-white, silent images of the skinny, dirty, shirtless and
unshaven men. [ 41 ]
Survival
This iconic image was the world's first view of the trapped miners after a video camera was lowered down the borehole. The miners had a 50 square meters (540 sq ft)
emergency shelter
with two long benches, [ 42 ]
but ventilation problems had led them to move out to a tunnel. [ 43 ]
In addition to the shelter, they had some 2 kilometers (1.2 mi) of galleries in which to move around. [ 25 ]
The miners used
backhoes
to dig for
underground water sources . [ 44 ]
Some water was obtained from the radiators of vehicles inside the mineshaft. [ 25 ]
Food supplies were limited and the men had lost an average of 8 kilograms (18 lb) each. [ 43 ]
Although the emergency supplies were intended for only two or three days, the miners
rationed
them and were able to make them last for two weeks, running out just before they were discovered. [ 45 ]
They consumed "two little spoonfuls of tuna, a sip of milk and a biscuit every 48 hours" and a morsel of peach. [ 25 ] [ 44 ]
The men used truck batteries to power their
hard hat
lamps for illumination. [ 43 ]
After his release from the hospital, Mario Sepúlveda said "All 33 trapped miners, practicing a
one-man, one-vote
democracy ,
worked together to maintain the mine, look for escape routes and keep
up morale." He said, "We knew that if society broke down we would all be
doomed. Each day a different person took a bad turn. Every time that
happened, we worked as a team to try to keep the morale up." He and some
of the older miners helped to support the younger men, he said, but all
have taken an oath of silence not to reveal certain details of what
occurred down the mine, particularly during the early weeks of
desperation. [ 46 ]
Ávalos said the men kept hope of a survival by pulling together to
beat hunger, thirst and desperation underground. “As a group we had to
keep faith, we had to keep hope, we had to all believe that we would
survive,” he said. Franklin Lobos, a former professional footballer,
said he and his fellow miners had acted like a great football team. "We
pulled together when things got rough, when there was nothing, when we
needed to drink water and there wasn’t any to drink. We pulled together
when there was no food, when you just had to eat a teaspoon of tuna
because there was nothing else. That really bonded us," he said. [ 47 ]
The video The miners filmed a 40 minute video, recorded by a mini-camera sent by the government through the
palomas ,
in which 28 of the 33 miners appeared, showed that most of them were in
good spirits, and, though they had lost considerable weight, were in
reasonably good health. It also demonstrated that they were organized —
they have established places to sleep, to play games and to put their
waste said
Dr. Jaime Mañalich, Chile’s health minister. Wearing white
gloves and using his helmet lamp, Mario Sepúlveda hosts the film and
points out where the miners eat, sleep, and the large cooler where they
store water. He stops at a wall where there is a cabinet with medical
supplies, including rubbing alcohol. There are some kitchen items, a
fire extinguisher, even a picture of a topless woman.
His colleagues
are mostly shirtless, with heavy beards, and almost all appear to be
sweating. Some looked emaciated. Sepúlveda calls the health conditions
“complicated” but assures the viewer that things have been improving
since the miners were found on Sunday. Sepúlveda points out where the
miners prepared a drier area for Mario Gomes, who at 63 suffers from
respiratory problems. [ 48 ]
The mood displayed in the video is generally positive and even light.
“The only good thing about getting out will be that out there you can
take a bath,” one man says, drawing laughs from others in the
background. “That’s true,” Sepúlveda agrees, smiling. As the video draws
to an end, Sepúlveda leads some of the group in the
Chilean national anthem .
And he talks about the importance of Luis Urzúa, the group’s
54-year-old shift leader, who Sepúlveda says has brought “calm” to
everyone else. Urzúa then appears. “We are all anxious to get out of
here and see our friends and families,” he says, “those that are working
day and night up there, the mining family and 17 million Chileans.” [ 48 ]
Leadership “It’s been a bit of a long shift,” said the foreman whose
level-headedness and gentle humour helped keep the miners under his
charge focused on survival during their 70-day underground ordeal. Luis
Urzúa kept his cool. In his first audio contact with officials on the
surface, he glossed over the hunger and despair he and his men had felt,
saying instead: “We’re fine, waiting for you to rescue us.” [ 49 ] [ 50 ]
“The hierarchy and power of a supervisor in the world of the miner is
extremely powerful; it is a military discipline,” Chilean Minister of
Health Jaime Manalich said as he explained the ability of Urzua to
organize the miners’ increasingly sophisticated underground existence.
“Natural selection is extremely strong in this world,” and effectively
makes a shift foreman “owner of the mine” during his typical 12-hour
shift. “This is an extremely dangerous job, if you look at the
statistics, this region of Chile has the highest worker mortality rate
in the nation and that is led by mining.” “[Urzua] is a leader in his
field and has been for ages. He is recognized by his peers as a leader.
For a miner, their shift leader is sacred and holy. They would never
think about replacing him. That is carved in stone; it is one of the
commandments in the life of a miner.” said Andreas Llarena, a commander
in the Chilean Navy who has been sent to the scene of the mining
accident to help coordinate medical aspects of the rescue operations. [ 51 ]
Urzua received three daily briefings: One from a doctor, another from
a psychologist and the third from a miner updating him on the technical
aspects of the rescue operation. The Chilean government counted on
Urzua to organize a long list of tasks for his mining crew, during a
daily medical conference call. An example of his self-confidence is when
he told Dr. Manalich to “keep it short, we have lots of work to do.” [ 51 ]
Urzúa split his men into three groups, to build team spirit. He set
up the rationing system that was crucial to the miners’ survival. Toward
the end, as the wait for a rescue the men had at first hoped would be
only days away wore on, the rations were stretched out to every 48
hours. He took charge underground, dividing their habitat into separate
areas for sleeping, working and washing, and kept his men occupied with
12-hour shifts to maintain the kind of discipline he learned while doing
his military service. He instilled a sense of structure and order among
his men, who even he admitted had been initially overcome by
desperation after the cave-in revealed a wall of rock hemming them in.
Urzúa also drew on his training as a topographer to map the tunnels that
became their sticky, damp home. He used a white pickup truck as an
underground office, and turned the lights of other trucks on and off to
simulate daylight. “He likes things to be clear,” says his brother Juan
Carlos. [ 49 ]
Urzúa said the key for keeping the men bonded and focused on survival
was majority decision-making. "You just have to speak the truth and
believe in democracy," said Urzúa. "Everything was voted on ... We were
33 men, so 16 plus one was a majority." Like a ship's captain,
54-year-old Urzúa was the last to leave after 70 days trapped below the
Atacama desert. Immediately after the collapse at the mine at lunchtime
on 5 August, Urzúa sent men to investigate. Some drove a pickup, inching
up a ramp. With clouds of dust limiting visibility to less than a
metre, they were unable to see the path and crashed. "We were trying to
find out what we could do and what we could not," said Urzúa. "Then we
had to figure out the food." Urzúa tried to instil a philosophical
acceptance of fate. [ 50 ]
"There was the waiting for death, the hopelessness, the petty
squabbles and the nagging, unspoken fear of cannibalism. We were waiting
for death. We were consuming ourselves – we were so skinny. Every day
[Urzúa] told us to have strength. If they find us they find us, if not,
that's that." said Villaroel of Urzúa. [ 50 ]
Key members of the trapped group Luis Urzúa
(54), the shift
foreman
trapped with the men, recognizing the gravity of the situation and the
difficulty of any rescue attempt, gathered the men in a secure room
called a
"refuge" , and organized the men and meager resources for a long-term survival situation. [ 52 ] [ 53 ]
Just after the incident, he led three men to scout up the tunnel,
confirming the situation, he then made detailed maps of the area to aid
the rescue effort. He led the underground portion of the rescue
operation coordinating closely with the surface engineers over the
teleconference
links [ 54 ] [ 55 ]
Florencio Ávalos
(31), second in command of the group, assisted Urzúa organizing the men. Because of his experience,
physical fitness
and emotional stability, he was selected to be the first miner to ride
the rescue capsule to the surface in case of complications during the 15
minute ascent in the
claustrophobic
shaft. Naturally shy, he served as the
video communications
camera
operator for the videos sent up to their families. He was trapped along with his younger brother Renan. [ 55 ]
Yonni Barrios
(50), became the medic of the trapped miners, monitoring their health, giving
vaccinations , and giving detailed medical reports to the team of doctors on the surface. His fellow miners jokingly referred to him as " Dr. House " from the popular American TV
medical drama . [ 34 ] [ 53 ]
Mario Gómez
(63), was the eldest miner and became the
religious
leader in the group, organizing a
chapel
with a
shrine
containing statues of
saints , and aided the surface
psychologists ' counseling efforts. [ 53 ] [ 55 ]
José Henríquez
(54), a
preacher
who has also worked in mining for 33 years, he served as the miners'
pastor
and organized daily prayers. [ 55 ]
Mario Sepúlveda
(40), served as the energetic host of the miner's
video journals
that were sent to the surface to reassure the world that they were
doing well. The local media dubbed him "Super Mario" after the
Super Mario Bros.
video game for his energy, wit and humor. [ 55 ] [ 56 ] [ 57 ]
Ariel Ticona
(29), served as the group's
communications
specialist , maintaining the underground portion of the telephone and
videoconferencing
systems that were sent down by the surface team. [ 55 ]
Health of the miners
Video capture image showing the condition of the miners after 17 days trapped below ground On 23 August, voice contact was made with the miners. They reported
having few medical problems; the doctor in charge of the rescue
operation told the media that "they have considerably less discomfort
than we might have expected after spending 18 days inside the mine, at
700 metres (2,300 ft) deep and under high temperatures and high
humidity". The doctors also reported that the miners had already been
provided with a 5% glucose solution and a drug to prevent stomach ulcers
resulting from food deprivation. [ 58 ]
Material was sent down in 5-foot-long (1.5 m) blue plastic capsules nicknamed
palomas
("doves", referring to the role of
carrier pigeons ), taking an hour to reach the miners. [ 42 ] [ 59 ]
Engineers coated the boreholes with a gel in order to ensure the integrity of the
shafts
and ease the passage of the capsules. [ 60 ]
In addition to high-energy glucose gels, rehydration tablets, and
medicine, rescuers also sent down oxygen after the miners reported there
was not enough air. [ 59 ]
Delivery of solid food began a few days later. [ 59 ] [ 61 ]
Two other boreholes were completed—one for oxygen enriched air, the second for
videoconference
equipment to allow daily
video chats
with family members. [ 61 ]
Relatives were permitted to write letters, but were asked to keep them optimistic. [ 42 ]
Out of concern for the miners' morale, rescuers hesitated to tell
them that according to the conservative plan, the rescue might take
months, with an eventual extraction date close to Christmas. The miners
who had been trapped since August would miss many events, including the
Chilean Bicentennial
celebrations and important soccer games, in addition to their personal
anniversaries. The miners were fully informed, however, on 25 August, of
the projected timeline for their rescue and the complexity of the plans
to get them out. The mining minister reported that the men took the
potentially negative news very well. [ 62 ]
Rescue workers and consultants described the miners as a very disciplined group. [ 34 ]
Psychologists and doctors worked with the rescue effort to ensure the miners kept busy and mentally focused. [ 59 ]
Fluorescent lights
with timers were sent down to keep the men on a normal schedule by imitating day and night. [ 61 ]
The miners affirmed their ability to participate in rescue efforts,
saying "There are a large number of professionals who are going to help
in the rescue efforts from down here." [ 63 ]
Psychologists believed that the miners should have a role in their own
destiny as it was important to maintain motivation and optimism. [ 63 ]
They divided themselves into three eight hour shifts with each shift
responsible for handling the palomas, environmental safety, preventing
further rock falls, communications and sanitation-related tasks. [ 63 ] [ 64 ] [ 65 ] [ 66 ]
Luis Urzúa became the overall leader and the oldest miner, Mario Gómez, was chosen to provide spiritual guidance. [ 63 ]
Mental health experts supported the hierarchical structure to preserve
order and routine within the group believing it to be crucial to their
mental health. [ 67 ]
One of the two tubes used to deliver supplies to the miners 2,000ft below Doctors determined that Yonni Barrios was the most qualified of the
miners to undertake medical tasks and to communicate on health issues,
due to his previous medical training. [ 68 ]
He made daily rounds, administering diagnostic tests, taking samples
and updating patient charts, and participated in daily conference calls
with the medical team above. He became so busy that he recruited Daniel
Herrera to assist with the record-keeping. [ 69 ]
Barrios
vaccinated
the group against
tetanus ,
diphtheria ,
flu
and
pneumonia . [ 34 ]
Many of the miners developed severe skin problems due to the hot and wet conditions. [ 34 ]
They were sent quick-drying clothing and mats so they would not have to sleep directly on the ground. [ 34 ]
In September, they received
first aid
kits, which included
tourniquets ,
IV kits , and
splints , and they received
first aid
training by
videoconferencing . [ 70 ]
Sanitation
was an important issue in their hot, humid environment, and the miners
took steps to maintain hygiene throughout their confinement. "They know
how to maintain their environment. They have a designated bathroom area,
garbage area and are even recycling," said Dr Andrés Llarena, an
anesthesiologist
with the Chilean navy. "They put plastic stuff away from biological
[wastes], in different holes. They are taking care of their place." The
men used a natural waterfall for regular showers and received soap and
shampoo from the palomas, while dirty laundry was sent out. They dug out
several fresh water sources which doctors determined to be
potable
and were provided
water purification
tablets as well. [ 69 ]
Environmental and safety issues were also a primary concern. Jimmy
Sánchez, the youngest of the group at 19, was assigned as the
"environmental assistant", and tested the
air quality
daily with a hand-held computerized device that measured
oxygen ,
carbon dioxide
levels and air temperature that normally averaged 31 °C (88 °F). Teams
of miners also patrolled their area to identify and prevent potential
rockfalls
and pry loose hazardous stones from the ceiling, while others worked to
divert the streams of water from the drilling operations. [ 69 ]
Health Minister
Jaime Mañalich
stated, "The situation is very similar to the one experienced by astronauts who spend months on end in the
space station ." [ 71 ]
On 31 August, a team from
NASA
in the United States arrived in Chile to provide assistance. The team
included two physicians, one psychologist, and an engineer. [ 72 ]
After the rescue, Dr. Rodrigo Figueroa, chief of the Trauma Stress and Disaster unit of the
Pontifical Catholic University of Chile ,
said there were serious shortcomings in the censorship of letters to
and from their relatives above ground and in the monitoring of
activities the miners could undertake, as being underground has suddenly
turned them into “babies,” he said. But the natural strength of “The
33” managed to keep them alive, and their natural organization into
teams as a response to disaster was also part of the human response to
threat. And as the miners’ sound minds have seen them through, they will
continue to be tested as they now resume life above ground. [ 73 ]
Religious aspects
Mass for the family members in Campamento Esperanza at San José Mine near Copiapó, Chile The trapped miners, most of whom were
Roman Catholic , asked for religious items, including Bibles,
crucifixes ,
rosaries , and statues of the
Virgin Mary
and other saints. [ 74 ]
Pope Benedict XVI
sent each man a rosary which was brought personally to the mine by the
archbishop of Santiago ,
Cardinal
Francisco Javier Errázuriz Ossa . [ 75 ]
After three weeks in the mine, one man who was
civilly married
to his wife 25 years earlier asked her to get married in a church. [ 76 ]
The men set up a makeshift chapel in the mine, and Mario Gómez, the
eldest miner, spiritually counseled his companions and led daily
prayers. [ 74 ]
Among the miners, a number attributed religious significance to the
events. Mario Sepúlveda, for example, said "I was with God, and with the
Devil -- and God took me." [ 74 ]
Mónica Ávalos, the wife of the first man rescued, Florencio Ávalos,
noted: "We are really religious, both my husband and I, so God was
always present. It is a miracle, this rescue was so difficult, it's a
grand miracle." [ 77 ]
As one story in the
Daily Mail
put it "A deep religious faith powered this rescue; miners and families
and rescuers alike believe their prayers were answered." [ 78 ]
Both government representatives and the Chilean public have repeatedly credited
Divine Providence
with keeping the miners alive and the Chilean public has viewed rescue as a miracle. [ 79 ]
Chile's president Sebastián Piñera stated, "When the first miner
emerges safe and sound, I hope all the bells of all the churches of
Chile ring out forcefully, with joy and hope. Faith has moved
mountains." [ 79 ]
When Esteban Rojas stepped out of the rescue device, he immediately
knelt on the ground with his hands together in prayer then raised his
arms above him in adoration. [ 80 ]
His wife then wrapped around him a religious tapestry with Mary on it as they hugged and cried. [ 80 ]
Camp Hope and the families Campamento Esperanza
(Camp Hope) was a
tent city
that sprang up in the desert as word of the collapse traveled. At
first, relatives gathered at the mine entrance and slept in cars as they
waited and prayed for word on rescue operation's progress. In the weeks
that the search extended, friends brought them tents and other camping
supplies for shelter from the harsh
desert climate .
The encampment grew larger with the arrival of friends and relatives,
additional rescue and construction workers, and members of the media.
Government ministers held regular briefings for the families and
journalists at the camp. "We're not going to abandon this camp until we
go out with the last miner left," said María Segovia. "There are 33 of
them, and one is my brother." [ 81 ] [ 82 ]
Many among the miner's families at Camp Hope are devout members of the
Catholic Church
and prayed nearly constantly for the men. [ 83 ]
As they waited, the worried families erected memorials for the trapped
men, lit candles and prayed. On a nearby hill overlooking the mine, the
families placed 32 Chilean and one Bolivian flag to represent their
stranded men. Small shrines were erected at the foot of each flag and
amongst the tents with pictures of their miners, religious icons and
statues of the Virgin Mary and patron saints. [ 84 ]
María Segovia, the elder sister of Darío Segovia, became known as
La Alcaldesa
(the Mayoress) for her organizational skills and outspokenness [ 85 ]
and as the families became more organized, the government took steps to
provide some comforts. Eventually the government provided a more
private area for the relatives to avoid the constant inquisitions from
the energetic
press corps , and
infrastructure
was added such as a kitchen, canteen area, sanitary facilities and
security. Bulletin boards sprouted and the local government established
shuttle bus stops. Over time even a school house and children's zones
were added and volunteers worked to help feed the families, clowns
entertained the children and organizations provided emotional and
spiritual comfort to the families waiting in limbo. [ 86 ]
Police and soldiers were brought in from Santiago to help maintain
order and security, some patrolling the desert perimeter on horseback
and it became in many respects, a small city. [ 87 ] [ 88 ]
Rescue plans
Miner rescued with a
Dahlbusch Bomb , the 1963 predecessor of the
Fénix ,
Wunder von Lengede , artist depiction (1963) by
Helmuth Ellgaard The rescue crews planned to raise the miners one by one with pods.
"The mine is old and there is concern of further collapses,” Murray
& Roberts Cementation managing director Henry Laas said. “The rescue
methodology therefore has to be carefully designed and implemented.” [ 89 ]
Drilling plans Several types of drilling equipment and different access strategies
to reach the miners with escape boreholes were tried in parallel. When
the escape shaft reached the miners, there were three plans in
operation—the Strata 950 ("Plan A", 702 metre target depth at 90°), the
Schramm T130XD ("Plan B", 638 metre target depth at 82°), and a RIG-421
drill ("Plan C", 597 meter target depth at 85°). [ 90 ]
Plan A Plan A used an
Australian
built
Strata 950
model
raise borer [ 91 ]
type
drilling rig
often used to create circular
shafts
between two levels of a mine without the use of
explosives . The drill was provided by
South African
mining company
Murray & Roberts , who had a recently idled machine in Chile for a separate mining contract. The drill had just finished a shaft for
Codelco's
Andina copper mine in Chile and was immediately transferred to San
José. Since it weighed 31 short tons (28 t), it needed to be shipped in
pieces. The Strata 950 was the first of the three drills to begin boring
an escape shaft. [ 92 ] [ 93 ]
In traditional raise boring operations, mining companies use a
drilling technique known as ‘up-reaming’. Normally, this type of rig
first drills a small
pilot hole
downward, then large machine cutters are attached to the drill which is
sticking out the bottom of the pilot hole. The massive cutters are
pulled up as they grind through thick rock, boring along the pilot hole.
In this case however, since the space below was blocked and the raise
bore bit could not be attached from underground, the rig was modified to
widen the hole from above. [ 89 ] [ 94 ]
If the pilot hole had been completed, further drilling would have
caused rock debris to fall down the hole, and the miners would have had
to remove the debris.
Plan B Plan B involved a
Schramm Inc.
T130XD
air core
drill owned by
Geotec S.A.
(a Chilean-American
joint venture
drilling company) that was chosen by Drillers Supply SA (the general
contractor of Plan B) to widen one of the three 5.5 inches (14 cm)
boreholes that were already keeping the miners supplied with
palomas . Internationally, the drills are used to drill top holes for the oil and gas industry and for mineral exploration and
water wells
This system employed Chilean
Drillers Supply SA
(DSI) personnel, Mijali Proestakis G.M. and Partner, Igor Proestakis
Tech Mgr and Greg Hall C.E.O. (who joined his team on site for the last
eight days of drilling) and their 7"
drill pipe
air core drill, a team of American drillers from
Layne Christensen Co.
and specialized
Down-The-Hole
drilling hammers from
Center Rock , Inc., of
Berlin, Pennsylvania .
Center Rock's president and personnel from DSI Chile were present on
site for the 33 days of drilling. While the Schramm rig, built by
privately held Schramm, Inc. of
West Chester, Pennsylvania ,
was already on the ground in Chile at the time of the mine collapse,
additional drilling equipment was flown from the United States to Chile
by
United Parcel Service . The percussion-technology
hammer drill
could drill at more than 40 metres (130 ft) a day by using four hammers instead of one. [ 89 ] [ 95 ] [ 96 ] [ 97 ]
The Schramm T-130 was directed to bore toward the workshop, a space
that was accessible by the miners. The T-130 became operational on 5
September and worked in three stages. First, it needed to enlarge the
5.5 inches (14 cm) hole to a 12 inches (30 cm) hole. It then needed to
drill the 12 inches (30 cm) hole into a 28 inches (71 cm) diameter hole.
“If we tried to drill from a 5.5 inches (14 cm) hole to a 28 inches (71
cm) hole, the torque would be too high and it would ... put the drill
bits under too much pressure,” said Schramm, Inc. Latin American
Regional Manager, Claudio Soto. However by reusing the same hole, there
was still added pressure on the drill. Delays occurred because of issues
with the neck of the drills caused by the angle of the drilling.
Rescuers couldn’t drill vertically since that would require placing the
heavy rig on the unstable ground where the cave in had happened. And the
rescuers also had to avoid drilling into the production tunnels that
wind above the shelter. Soto added, during the rescue, “It’s a difficult
hole. It’s curved and deep. The hard rock has proven to be abrasive and
has worn out the steel of the drill.”
The fine rock debris, known as
cuttings ,
fell down the pilot hole; an estimated 500 kilograms (1,100 lb) of
rocks fell down every hour. Working in shifts 24 hours a day, the miners
had to keep the passage clear with the industrial-sized battery-powered
sweepers, shovels and wheel barrows trapped in the mine with them. [ 34 ]
The miners had to remove on their own a total mass of drilling cuttings
estimated at up to 700 metric tons (770 short tons), considering a
borehole
diameter
of 70 centimetres (28 in), with a depth of 688 metres (2,257 ft) and a rock density of 2.7 tonnes per cubic metre. [ 68 ] [ 89 ]
Its first delay was caused by it hitting a metal bar in an old working and wrecking. [ 26 ]
The wrecked drill bit was retrieved by sending down a steel tube called
a "spider", whose end was cut into 8 long teeth. When the spider
reached the obstruction, its 8 teeth went down around the drill bit, and
on further pressure bent in below the drill bit, holding it, and it was
hauled to the surface. The second delay was caused by the replacement
drill bit wearing out. As the drill drilled down, the spoil fell down
the pilot hole and the trapped miners had to clear it away, using a
front loader , fueled with
diesel
sent down one of the supply holes.
Plan C Plan C was a powerful
Canadian
built
RIG-421
oil
drilling rig
operated by
Calgary -based
Precision Drilling Corporation
and was the last drill to become involved in the rescue process; it began drilling on Sept. 19. [ 89 ]
The rig is a special drill used for oil and gas drilling that could
drill a wide enough escape shaft in a single pass without a pilot hole.
RIG-421 is a
Diesel-Electric Triple
that was 43 metres (141 ft) tall and needed 40 truckloads to bring its pieces from
Iquique , Chile to
Copiapó .
10,000 cubic metres (13,000 cu yd) of rock and gravel were cleared to
make a stable platform for it on the rough hillside. It was chosen for
the rescue operation because it can drill large holes deep into the
ground and because it works faster than mining drills. Unlike the Strata
950 and the Schramm T-130, the Rig 421 brings debris back up to the
surface. [ 89 ] [ 98 ]
It suffered a setback due to the difficulty of aiming the larger
drill at a 2.5m x 2.5m target and the hardness of the rock when the
drill diverted from its course. The drill then needed to be removed,
resized and repositioned, which slowed its progress.“We’ve drilled wells
all around the world. The actual drilling of the hole in the ground
isn’t that difficult. When you’re given a target to aim for it’s a
little more difficult,” said Shaun Robstad, superintendent with
Precision Drilling. Many family members of the miners once had high
hopes for this Canadian rig, but it had to reduce its drill size and
lagged behind. [ 89 ] [ 99 ] [ 100 ]
2010 Copiapó mining accident
Drilling Results
Plan A, Strata 950  (85%)
598
702
Plan B, Schramm T130   (100%)
624
Plan C, RIG-421  (62%)
372
597
Drilling results The widened shaft of Plan B's Schramm T130XD reached the trapped
miners at 08:05 CLDT on 9 October after a 10 hour stoppage to change the
drill-bit. [ 101 ]
By 8 October, the Plan A Strata 950's pilot hole had reached 598 metres
(1,962 ft) deep (85% - it had not yet started its widened shaft). Plan
C's RIG-421, the only machine at the site which drills a shaft wide
enough immediately, reached 372 metres (1,220 ft) (62%). [ 89 ] [ 102 ]
As illustrated in the graphic to the right, it was the Schramm T-130,
Plan B, that reached the miners on Oct. 9. The rescue operation was an
international effort. The rescue of the miners involved not only
technology, but the cooperation and resources of companies and
individuals from around the world, including Latin America, South
Africa, Australia, the United States and Canada. NASA specialists helped
develop a sophisticated health agenda. Canada brought in their “Plan C”
drill. An Austrian system of cranes and pulleys designed for the rescue
capsule eventually pulled the miners to the surface. But overall, it
was widely a Chilean-led team and effort. As one NASA specialist said
while visiting early on in the rescue: “The Chileans are basically
writing the book.” [ 89 ]
See also:
International Government Participation  and
International Corporate Participation Extraction plans Fénix
rescue capsule
Fénix-2
capsule on display in
Santiago
in October 2010 Main article:
Fénix capsules While the three separate drills pushed forward, rescue teams were
creating the capsule that would eventually carry the miners to safety.
The diameter of the rescue borehole was 66 centimetres (26 in), meaning
each miner had to have a waistline of no more than 90 centimetres (35
in) to escape. [ 25 ]
In comparison, the
Dahlbusch Bomb , a capsule designed in 1955 in Germany and used in several mine rescues, most notably the 1963
Wunder von Lengede
("Miracle of Lengede") mine rescue, [ 103 ] [ 104 ]
were only 38.5 centimetres (15.2 in) in diameter. In order to ensure
they were able to fit in the capsule, an exercise regimen for the miners
had been implemented. [ 62 ] [ 89 ]
Several major online news media organizations produced illustrations of the capsules' basic design. [ 105 ] [ 106 ] [ 107 ]
The steel rescue capsules, dubbed
Fénix
(English:
Phoenix )
were constructed by the Chilean Navy with design help from NASA. “I put
together a team of engineers from almost every center around the
agency,” said Clint Cragg, principal engineer with the NASA Engineering
and Safety Center. “We hammered out a 12 to 13 page list of requirements
for the capsule and sent that to the Chilean Minister of Health.” The
NASA team proposed about 75 design features, including suggestions that
the capsule be built so a miner could get himself in and secured easily,
be equipped with an oxygen tank, and include technology to cut down on
friction while in the shaft. The Chilean Navy incorporated most of
NASA's suggestions and produced three rescue pods, named
Fénix
1, 2 and 3 respectively; these were enhanced versions of the
Dahlbusch Bomb .
Fénix
1 was presented to journalists and the miners' relatives to try out for size. [ 89 ] [ 108 ] [ 109 ]
The capsule in which the 33 men were rescued was the
Fénix 2 . The capsule was 54 centimetres (21 in) in diameter, [ 110 ]
narrow enough to avoid hitting the sides of the tunnel and with
retractable wheels to allow for a smoother ride to the surface. It had
an oxygen supply, lighting, video and voice communications, a reinforced
roof to protect against rock falls, and an escape hatch with a safety
device to allow the miner to lower himself back down if the capsule
became stuck. [ 89 ] [ 110 ]
Extraction preparation
Fénix-2
capsule on display in front of
La Moneda
presidential palace in
Santiago Laurence Golborne ,
Chilean Minister of Mining, announced on 9 October that the rescue
operation was not expected to begin before 12 October because multiple
steps had to be taken to prepare both the escape shaft and the site for
the extraction system: [ 111 ]
Inspection of the borehole to determine how much needed to be
encased with steel pipes to prevent rockfalls from jamming the escape
capsule
Installation of steel pipes to prevent loose rocks from jamming the
capsule which, depending on how much casing the shaft required, could
take up to 96 hours
Construction of a concrete platform for the the winching rig which would be used to raise and lower the capsule
Assembly of the winching rig
Thorough testing of the capsule and winching system
Golborne also indicated he expected only the first 100–200 metres
(330–660 ft) of the shaft to be encased, a task that could be performed
in only 10 hours. [ 112 ]
On 9 October, after visual inspection of the shaft with video cameras,
it was decided that only the top 96 metres (315 ft) of the shaft would
be encased with steel pipes but, eventually, only the first 56 metres
(184 ft) were deemed to require encasing. Assembly of a system with a
winch and pulleys took another 48 hours. [ 113 ]
The winch and pulleys were produced and operated by OESTU-Stettin, an
Austrian
company. [ 114 ]
Shortly before the extraction phase began, Golborne told reporters at
the mine that rescuers estimated it would take about an hour to bring
each miner to the surface and thus he expected the lifting phase of the
rescue operation to take up to 48 hours. [ 115 ]
See also:
International Government Participation  and
International Corporate Participation Rescue –
"Operación San Lorenzo"
Manuel González , the first rescuer, is preparing to descend into the
San José Mine , during
"Operación San Lorenzo" . The
mine rescue
effort to retrieve the miners began on Tuesday, 12 October at 19:00
CLDT
and was dubbed
Operación San Lorenzo
(Operation
St. Lawrence ) after the
patron saint
of miners
whose statue at
Copiapó's
church bears a
miner's helmet . [ 84 ] [ 116 ] [ 117 ]
The first rescuer lowered to the miners was Manuel González, an
experienced rescue expert and employee of mining company Codelco, at
23:18 CLDT, following a three-hour delay for final safety tests. [ 118 ]
During the 18 minute descent, the waiting families and surface rescue team members sang the
Canción Nacional
(Chile's national anthem). González arrived in the collapsed mine and made contact with the miners at 23:36.
The fifth rescuer, Patricio Sepúlveda, is in the rescue capsule and is being lowered into the
San José Mine , during
"Operación San Lorenzo" . Extraction Even though Chilean officials played down the risks of the rescue,
the miners needed to be alert during the ascent in case something went
wrong. Therefore, the rescue plan indicated that the first four miners
to travel up the narrow shaft were to be those "deemed the fittest of
body and mind". [ 119 ]
They could best tell the rescue team about the conditions of the
journey and of the remaining miners. After the initial four, the rescues
proceeded in order of health, with the least healthy men brought from
the mine first. [ 120 ]
Procedure Six hours before his rescue, each miner switched to a purely liquid diet, rich in sugars, minerals and potassium, [ 121 ]
as recommended by
NASA . Miners also used a girdle around the waist to maintain stable
blood pressure , and took an
aspirin
to avert formation of
blood clots . [ 122 ]
Each miner was strapped into a harness inside the 28 inches (71 cm)
wide bullet-shaped capsule, wearing a green moisture-resistant track
coverall [ 123 ]
and sunglasses [ 124 ]
to avoid retinal damage from initial exposure to sunlight and other harsh lighting. The capsule included
oxygen masks ,
heart monitors , and video cameras. [ 109 ]
Once the miner was secure inside the capsule, it then ascended at a
rate of 1 metre per second (2.2 mph), with an estimated travel time of 9
to 18 minutes.
When the capsule surfaced, a doctor approached it to check for the
miner's alertness. Then, the miner was helped out of the capsule, was
immediately reunited with a maximum of three next-of-kin and received a
protocolary
salute. After this, he was laid on a stretcher and taken to a
field hospital
for a
triage .
As none of them needed immediate emergency treatment, each was
transferred by ambulance to an office building, still on the mine
premises, for a private time with his next-of-kin. Finally, the miners
were transferred in groups of 4 by helicopter to Copiapó Hospital, 60 km
(40 miles) away, for a 24–48 hour period of medical observation.
As the previously rescued miner received medical treatment, the capsule repeated its descent. [ 123 ]
Rescue
Mario Gómez, the eldest miner, was the ninth to be rescued from the
San José Mine , during
"Operación San Lorenzo" . The original plan was for the capsule to return to the surface empty
after delivering the first rescue worker, to deliver a second rescuer to
the mine before bringing the first miner to the surface. However, to
avoid delay, rescuers decided to send a miner to the surface in the
capsule returning after González was sent down. (The capsule had
completed an “empty” trial run the previous day, stopping just 15 metres
(49 ft) before the end of the shaft.) [ 125 ]
The capsule was quickly rechecked for safety and, after 15 minutes,
miner Florencio Ávalos began his ascent from the mine; the scene was
filmed live from inside the mine and from the surface and broadcast
worldwide. The mine's shift supervisor, Luis Urzúa (54), whose
disciplined leadership was credited with keeping the men alive on an
emergency food supply during their first 17 days without contact from
the outside world, was the last miner to make the journey.
[ 126 ]
Each transit of the capsule (down or up) was projected to take 15 minutes, [ 127 ]
for a total time of 33 hours for the entire rescue operation; however,
after the capsule's first few transits, it became apparent that the trip
might take somewhat less than the projected 15 minutes and each rescue
cycle less than 1 hour. As the eighteenth miner was brought to the
surface, Chilean Mining Minister
Laurence Golborne
stated "We have advanced at a faster time than we originally planned. I
foresee we might conclude the whole operation before tonight." [ 128 ]
Luis Urzúa, the leader of the trapped miners and the last of the 33 to
be lifted to freedom, celebrates with President Piñera at
San José Mine , during
"Operación San Lorenzo" . Luis Urzúa, after stepping free from the rescuers, greeting his son
and then embracing President Piñera said, "I've delivered to you this
shift of workers, as we agreed I would". The president replied, "I
gladly receive your shift, because you completed your duty, leaving last
like a good captain." President Piñera went on to say "You are not the
same after this, and Chile won't be the same either." [ 129 ]
During the rescue, a large
Chilean flag
was hung in the mine chamber; Luis Urzúa brought it up with him. After
all the miners had been extracted, the rescuers in the mine chamber
displayed a banner reading
"Misión cumplida Chile"
("Mission accomplished Chile"). [ 130 ]
Manuel González was the first rescuer down and the last up, spending 25
hours 14 minutes in the mine. Rescuers who needed to sleep did so in
the mine to avoid delaying the rescue by using capsule journeys. After
the last rescuer was out,
President Piñera
personally covered the top of the rescue shaft with a metal lid. The
Fénix 2
made 39 live round trip journeys, traveling about 50 kilometres (31 mi) with human cargo. [ 131 ]
Order of miners and rescuers
The iconic image of the six rescuers displaying the the famous
"Mision Cumplida CHILE"
(Mission Complete Chile) sign in
San José Mine
near Copiapo, Chile. Before the rescue, the trapped miners were classified into three main groups to determine the exit order, first to last:
"hábiles"
(skilled),
"lábiles"
(weak) and
"fuertes"
(strong). [ 132 ]
In theory, the first ones to exit should be those more skilled and in
the best physical condition, because in the case of any problem (capsule
malfunction or collapse of the shaft), they would be capable of an
unaided escape from the bottom of the capsule or be able to communicate
clearly any other inconvenience to the rescue team on the surface. The
second group included miners with medical problems, older men and those
with psychological issues. The final group comprised the most mentally
tough, as they had to be able to endure the anxiety of the wait; [ 133 ]
in the words of Minister Mañalich "they don't care to stay another 24 hours inside the mine".
The exit order was as shown below. The penultimate miner rescued,
Ariel Ticona, was tasked with communications. The last, Luis Urzúa, a
surveyor , was the shift foreman on the day of the collapse and the group leader during the confinement. [ 134 ]
[ show ]
Rescued miners (click "show" to expand the table)
Order Rescued
Miner's name
Age [ 135 ]
Rescue time ( CLDT ) [ 8 ] [ 9 ]
Cycle time [ 136 ]
Comments [ 55 ]
1
Florencio Ávalos
31
13 October 00:11
0:51
Video camera operator for the videos sent up to families. He had helped to get his brother Renan a job in the mine.
2
Mario Sepúlveda
40
13 October 01:10
1:00
An electrical specialist known as "the presenter" because he acted
as a spokesman and guide on videos that the miners made. He ended one
video with "Over to you in the studio."
3
Juan Andrés Illanes
52
13 October 02:07
0:57
A former
Chilean Army
corporal
who served in the
Beagle Conflict , a border dispute with
Argentina .
4
Carlos Mamani
24
13 October 03:11
1:04
The only
Bolivian
among the 33, the heavy machinery operator; he moved to Chile a decade ago.
5
Jimmy Sánchez
19
13 October 04:11
1:00
The youngest man trapped; he had only been a miner for five months. He has a baby daughter.
6
Osmán Araya
30
13 October 05:35
1:24
In a video message he told his wife and baby daughter Britany: "I will fight to the end to be with you."
7
José Ojeda
46
13 October 06:22
0:47
Penned the famous note "Estamos bien en el refugio los 33" ("We are
okay in the refuge, the 33 of us") which was discovered attached to a
probe 17 days after the mine collapse. [ 137 ]
A grandfather who suffers from kidney problems and has been on medication for
diabetes .
8
Claudio Yáñez
34
13 October 07:04
0:42
A drill operator. His longterm
partner
Cristina Núñez accepted his
proposal
while he was underground.
9
Mario Gómez
63*
13 October 08:00
0:56
The eldest of the trapped miners, he had been thinking of
retirement
in November. (Note: *Multiple reliable
sources
have reported his age as between 60 and 65.)
10
Álex Vega
31
13 October 08:53
0:53
Suffers from
kidney
problems and
hypertension . Had worked in the mine for nine years.
11
Jorge Galleguillos
56
13 October 09:31
0:38
Suffers from
hypertension
12
Edison Peña
34
13 October 10:13
0:42
The group's song leader, he requested that
Elvis Presley
songs be sent down into the mine. The fittest miner, he had reportedly
been running 10 km a day while underground. He ran in the
2010 New York City Marathon
13
Carlos Barrios
27
13 October 10:55
0:42
A
part-time
miner who also drives a
taxi
and likes
horse racing . He was said to be unhappy with interference from
psychologists .
14
Víctor Zamora
33
13 October 11:32
0:37
A
mechanic
who only went into the mine on the day of the
collapse
to fix a vehicle. He was also a victim of the
Chile earthquake
in February 2010.
15
Víctor Segovia
48
13 October 12:08
0:36
An
electrician
and father of four who told his family: "This hell is killing me. When I sleep I dream we are in an oven."
16
Daniel Herrera
27
13 October 12:50
0:42
Truck driver , was given the role of
medical assistant
in the mine.
17
Omar Reygadas
56
13 October 13:39
0:49
A
bulldozer
operator whose children have been keeping a diary of their life above ground on BBC News.
18
Esteban Rojas
44
13 October 14:49
1:10
Told his longtime
partner
Jessica Yáñez that he will
marry
her in a
church
as soon as he gets out.
19
Pablo Rojas
45
13 October 15:28
0:39
He had worked in the mine for less than six months when the accident happened. His brother Esteban was trapped with him.
20
Darío Segovia
48
13 October 15:59
0:31
A drill operator, he is a son of a miner, and his father was once trapped for a week. His sister María led prayers at
Camp Hope .
21
Yonni Barrios
50
13 October 16:31
0:32
Served as the group
medic
and supervised their medical care.
22
Samuel Ávalos
43
13 October 17:04
0:33
He was given the responsibility of checking
air quality . A father-of-three who had worked in the mine for five months.
23
Carlos Bugueño
27
13 October 17:33
0:29
Friends with fellow trapped miner Pedro Cortez.
24
José Henríquez
54
13 October 17:59
0:26
A
preacher
who has worked in mining for 33 years, he had become the miners'
pastor
and organized daily
prayers .
25
Renán Ávalos
29
13 October 18:24
0:25
Trapped along with his older brother Florencio.
26
Claudio Acuña
44
13 October 18:51
0:27
Had his birthday in the mine on September 9.
27
Franklin Lobos
53
13 October 19:18
0:27
A well known former
football
player known as the "magic mortar".
28
Richard Villarroel
27
13 October 19:45
0:27
The
mechanic
had worked in the mine for two years
29
Juan Carlos Aguilar
49
13 October 20:13
0:28
A married father of one.
30
Raúl Bustos
40
13 October 20:37
0:24
A
hydraulics engineer , was a victim of the February
earthquake
in Chile. He moved north, finding work at the mine to support his wife and two children.
31
Pedro Cortez
26
13 October 21:02
0:25
Went to school near the mine. He and his friend Carlos Bugueno, who was also trapped, started work there at the same time.
32
Ariel Ticona
29
13 October 21:30
0:28
The group's
communications
specialist. His wife gave
birth
to a daughter on Sept 14 and he could watch the arrival on video. He named her Esperanza, which means "Hope".
33
Luis Urzúa
54
13 October 21:55
0:25
The shift
foreman , known as
Don
Lucho by other miners, took a leading role while they were trapped and
he made more accurate maps of their cave for the rescue crews.
Note: the Chilean newspaper
El Mercurio
published a widely circulated, but incorrect, early list of the miners' names with two errors: [ 138 ]
it omitted Esteban Rojas and Claudio Acuña and wrongly included the
names of Roberto López Bordones and William Órdenes. The list above is
correct and up to date according to the Ministry of Mining website. [ 139 ]
[ show ]
Rescue workers who descended (click "show" to expand the table)
Order Descended
Rescue worker [ 140 ] [ 141 ] [ 142 ]
Affiliation [ 142 ] [ 143 ]
Descent time ( CLDT ) [ 141 ]
Extraction time ( CLDT ) [ 141 ]
Time spent inside mine [ 141 ]
Cycle time [ 141 ] [ 144 ]
Down trip no. [ 141 ]
1.
Manuel González
El Teniente Mine
12 October 23:18
14 October 00:32
25:14
0:27
1
2.
Roberto Ríos,
Sgt
Chilean Marine Corps
13 October 00:16
14 October 00:05
23:49
0:23
2
3.
Patricio Robledo,
Cpl
Chilean Marine Corps
13 October 01:18
13 October 23:42
22:24
0:25
3
4.
Jorge Bustamante
El Teniente Mine
13 October 10:22
13 October 23:17
12:55
0:24
13
5.
Patricio Sepúlveda,
Cpl
GOPE
(police medic)
13 October 12:14
13 October 22:53
10:39
0:23
16
6.
Pedro Rivero
Carola Mine
13 October 19:23
13 October 22:30
3:07
0:35
28
Notes:
The extraction times for the rescuers are correct but may be out of
order and not listed next to the actual corresponding rescue worker
"Down trip no." is the number of the capsule journey that he was sent down on
Reaction to the rescue
Chilean President Sebastián Piñera and First Lady Cecilia Morel present a
souvenir gift rock from the San Jose Mine to Queen Elizabeth II on 18
October 2010 during a state visit to the UK. Main article:
Reaction to the 2010 Copiapó mining accident Chilean President
Sebastián Piñera
and First Lady
Cecilia Morel
were present during the rescue.
Bolivian President
Evo Morales
was also scheduled to be on location for the rescue but did not arrive
in time for the rescue of the trapped Bolivian miner, Carlos Mamani. [ 145 ]
A number of foreign leaders contacted Piñera to express solidarity and
pass on congratulations to Chile while the rescue efforts were ongoing,
including the Presidents of
Argentina ,
Brazil ,
Colombia ,
Peru ,
South Africa ,
Uruguay ,
Venezuela , [ 146 ] [ 147 ]
and
Poland , [ 148 ]
and Prime Ministers of the
United Kingdom , [ 149 ]
Ireland , (who also wrote personally to the Chilean president and the
Clare -based designers and manufacturers of the rescue drill), [ 150 ]
and of
Spain . Other foreign leaders including
President of Mexico ,
Felipe Calderón [ 151 ]
and
U.S. President
Barack Obama [ 151 ] [ 152 ]
praised the rescue efforts and passed on their hopes and prayers to the miners and their families.
Pope Benedict XVI
left a video message in Spanish praying for the success of the rescue operation. [ 153 ]
After all the miners were rescued, Piñera gave a speech on location
in which he was effusive in his praise of Chile and said he was "proud
to be the president of all Chileans." He invoked Chile's recently passed
Bicentennial
celebrations and said the miners were rescued with "unity, hope and
faith." He also thanked Chávez and Morales, amongst others, for their
calls of support and solidarity. He said those who forced the rescue
(i.e. those responsible for the collapse of the mine) would be punished,
and said there would be a "new deal" with the workers. [ 154 ] [ 155 ]
Miners post-rescue
President Piñera visiting the rescued miners in Copiapó Hospital in October 2010 By 19 October, all 33 of the men had been released from the hospital.
All but two of the men were released to go home within 48 hours of the
rescue; Mario Sepúlveda remained hospitalized for further psychological
evaluation because of concerns that he had not yet adapted to life
outside the mine but was released on 16 October. [ 47 ]
Meanwhile, Víctor Zamora remained for additional treatment of a dental infection and was released on 19 October. [ 156 ] [ 157 ]
Health concerns Their doctors marveled at how well the men had coped physically with
their time underground, but the media frenzy surrounding the men since
their return concerned the Chilean
Health Minister ,
Jaime Mañalich. He requested that the media treat the miners "with
dignity and respect", and went on to say they needed "rest and repose"
so they have the chance to come to terms with the events of the last 70
days. "They are still on an emotional roller-coaster". The medical
team's psychologist, Alberto Iturra, warned that the miners were
exhausted. "When that happens, your sensitivity rises to the maximum at
the same time as your tolerance falls to almost nothing". Regardless,
President Piñera challenged the men to a friendly
soccer
game and invited them to state functions including a visit to the presidential palace and the grand opening of a
transcontinental
highway. [ 158 ]
Marc Siegel, an associate professor of medicine at the
NYU
Langone Medical Center ,
said that lack of sunlight could potentially cause problems with
muscles, bones and other organs. Jane Aubin, scientific director of the
Institute of Musculoskeletal Health and Arthritis at the
Canadian Institute for Health Research ,
said the miners will have to be monitored closely. “They haven’t been
as physically active as you would want [them] to be, so they have
undoubtedly experienced some
muscle loss ,”
she said. “Probably after that extended period of time, in both a
confined space and in relative darkness, they’ve also probably
experienced some
bone loss .” [ 159 ]
The team of psychologists who spoke to the miners daily in the mine will continue to follow their progress.
"Los 33"
miners pose for a photo with the opposing team of
rescuers at a soccer game held in their honor at the National Stadium 24
October 2010 Officials considered canceling plans for a thanksgiving mass for the men and their families at
Campamento Esperanza ,
on 17 October, because of fears that a premature return to the site
could be damaging. “It’s not a good idea that they go back to the mine
so soon,” said Iturra. [ 156 ]
Dr Jorge Díaz, head of the miners' medical team at Copiapó regional
hospital said "We have a group of workers who are absolutely normal
people, they weren't selected from a group of applicants to be
astronauts, nor were they people who underwent rigorous tests, therefore
we don't know when the
post-traumatic stress syndrome
can appear." [ 160 ]
Conversely,
post-traumatic growth ,
positive psychological change experienced as a result of the struggle
with highly challenging life circumstances could also result. Their
triumph in a highly challenging environment could also increase their
self-confidence and strengthen bonds with each other and with their
families. “When people are deprived ... it can be really adverse, it can
really mess up a person. With these guys, they were together,” said
Charles Nelson, a psychologist with the operational stress injury clinic
at Parkwood Hospital in
London ,
Ontario , Peter Suedfeld, a
professor emeritus
at the
University of British Columbia , said the men are less likely to have trouble returning to their jobs. “Sailors who have been
shipwrecked , for example … many of them go back to sea,” he said. “They’ll feel that they can cope with anything that comes up.”
[ 159 ]
Activities On Sunday, 17 October, six of the 33 rescued miners attended a
multi-denominational
memorial mass led by an
evangelical
pastor and a Roman Catholic priest at
"Campamento Esperanza"
(Camp Hope) where anxious relatives had awaited the men's return. Some
of the rescuers who helped bring the miners to the surface were also
attending. [ 157 ] [ 160 ]
Reporters and cameras mobbed the miners prompting the police to
intervene to protect them. Omar Reygadas' family was swarmed by the
media after they left the service and his 2-year-old great-granddaughter
was pushed by the crowd and started crying. As Reygadas picked her up
the cameras zoomed in. Reygadas stayed calm but offered his only answer
in response to their questions: “I’ve had nightmares these days,”
Reygadas said from inside the little tent while reporters jockeyed for
position, “but the worst nightmare is all of you.” [ 161 ]
The 33 miners plan to start a foundation so they can use their
experience to help in the field of mine safety. Yonni Barrios said
"We're thinking about creating a foundation to solve [safety] problems
in the mining industry. With this, with the experience that we had had,
God help us, we should be able to solve these problems." Juan Illanes
told El Mercurio "We have to decide how to direct our project so this
type of thing never happens again. It needs to be done, but these things
don't happen quickly". [ 162 ]
On 24 October, the miners attended a reception hosted by President
Pinera at the Presidential palace in the capital, Santiago, and were
awarded medals celebrating Chile's independence bicentennial. Outside,
the men posed for photographs alongside the Phoenix rescue capsule that
winched them to the surface that has been installed in the main square
in Santiago. Afterward, at the National Stadium, the freed miners played
their rescuers in a football match including President Piñera, Laurence
Golborne, mining minister, and Jaime Manalich, the health minister.
Team
"Esperanza"
(Hope), led by Franklin Lobos, all wore the same number, "33", against the government team but lost 2-3. [ 163 ]
Aftermath of the accident
Los 33
miners attending a ceremony hosted by President Piñera at
the Presidential Palace on 24 October 2010 after their rescue from the
San Jose Mine Political Immediately following the San José mine collapse, President Piñera dismissed top officials of
Servicio Nacional de Geología y Minería de Chile
(abbreviated Sernageomin), Chile's mining regulatory agency and vowed
to undertake a major overhaul of the department in light of the
accident. [ 4 ]
Eighteen mines were shut down in the days following the accident and a further 300 may be ordered to close. [ 68 ]
The San José mine's long-term fate is unclear; it is currently closed
and will remain in limbo for an extended period as judicial processes
are followed.
President Piñera presenting miniature Chilean flag and escape capsule
souvenirs to shift leader Luis Urzúa during a ceremony at the
Presidential Palace on 24 October 2010 On 25 October, a preliminary report by the Commission on Work Safety,
established by President Piñera in response to the accident, was
delivered to the President ahead of schedule. The report is a direct
result of the San Jose mining accident and contains 30 proposals ranging
from improvements in hygiene to better coordination of local
regulators. Although the commission had set Nov. 22 as the date to
deliver its final report, it says it was able to discover a clear
picture of job safety from sessions in both Santiago and regions
throughout Chile. The commission held 204 hearings and reviewed 119
suggestions that came from online input. [ 164 ]
Throughout the ordeal, President Piñera stressed the importance of
rescuing the miners regardless of the cost. The rescue operation was
expensive and estimates surpass
US$ 20 million, excluding the expenses to build, maintain and secure
"Campamento Esperanza"
(Camp Hope). These costs exceed the total business debt of the owner of
the mine, the San Esteban Mining Company, which is currently about
US$ 19 million.
The state mining company Codelco contributed about 75% of the cost
while private companies responded to the emergency and donated services
worth more than
US$ 5 million to the rescue. [ 165 ]
The
French
credit rating
agency
Coface
declared that the reputational impact of the dramatic mining rescue will have a positive impact on the
Andean
nation's economy. "It provides to international investors an image of a
country where you can do safe [sic] business," Coface's UK managing
director, Xavier Denecker, says. "It gives a good impression in terms of
technology, solidarity and efficiency." Coface rates countries
according to the probability of
private sector
companies being successful. Chile holds its highest rating in South America: A2. The UK, in comparison, is inferior–an A3. [ 166 ]
Legal A
lawsuit
has been filed against the company and a judge has frozen
US$ 2 million
in assets; a lawyer for several of the miners' families described this
as a refutation of the company's claims of not having even enough money
to pay salaries. [ 68 ]
On 21 October, San Esteban Mining Company, sent out a public
statement, signed by Chief of Operations Carlos Pinilla and mine manager
Pedro Simunovic, that insisted that no company official "had the
slightest indication that a catastrophe could occur.” Miner Jorge
Gallardo insisted that there was no way the owners could have been
unaware of the situation since everything was recorded and his daily
safety reports were signed by Pinilla. Rescued miner Victor Zamora
commented “What made me sad was that people were dying because the
company did not want to have something safer and only thought about
money". [ 164 ]
Monument and legacy Chilean President Sebastián Piñera has suggested turning Camp Hope into a memorial or museum to honour the men. [ 157 ]
The Fénix 2 capsule that was used in
Operación San Lorenzo
at the San José mine was placed on the
Plaza de la Constitución , in front of Chile's
presidential palace
in
Santiago . Currently, one of the backup capsules is in
Copiapó
and the other was sent to China for display in Chile's exhibit at the
Shanghai Expo .
Discussions are under way for a permanent display of the capsule and
possibly some type of museum; potential locations include both Copiapó,
the city nearby the accident site, and
Talcahuano , 1,300 miles (2,100 km) south, where the capsules were built at a Chilean navy workshop. [ 167 ]
Social impact "Why has the Chilean miners' rescue left me this euphoric? The
feverish media coverage and product placement should jar. But there it
is – a flash of global joy." asked the Guardian's
Zoe Williams . Two prominent
U.K.
newspapers featured stories critical of the BBC for sending a news crew of two dozen as overkill. Regardless, the
BBC
contingent was unable to fulfill demand. Local stations in Northern
Ireland and Wales were forced to interview non-BBC journalists at the
mine. The Guardian reported that "the demand for coverage was
astounding". [ 168 ]
The Guardian
asked the rhetorical questions "The story has now moved to a new, potentially ugly phase: chasing
los 33
for details about their confinement – did they fight? Did they have
sex? – and soap opera-style coverage of their private lives. Will they
dump wives and girlfriends as celebrity calls?" In
El Pais ,
Hernán Rivera Letelier ,
a well known Chilean writer and former miner, offered advice to the
miners: "I hope that the avalanche of lights and cameras and flashes
that is rushing towards you is a light one. It's true that you've
survived a long season in hell, but, when all's said and done, it was a
hell you knew. "What's heading your way, now, comrades, is a hell that
you have not experienced at all: the hell of the show, the alienating
hell of TV sets. I've only got one thing to say to you, my friends: grab
hold of your family. Don't let them go, don't let them out of your
sight, don't waste them. Hold on to them as you hung on to the capsule
that brought you out. It's the only way to survive this media deluge
that's raining down on you." [ 168 ]
The
Daily Telegraph
reported that the miners have hired an accountant to ensure that they
fairly share any income from their new celebrity status; including
expected book and film deals. The men agreed to "speak as one" when they
discuss their experience. While still trapped, they appointed one of
their group to be their official biographer and another, their poet. [ 169 ]
The first of the expected books on the rescue, " Under the Earth: The 33 Miners that Moved the World " - is nearing completion. Another book called " 33 Men, Buried Alive: The Inside Story of the Trapped Chilean Miners ", by
Jonathan Franklin , a writer for
The Guardian , should be released in early 2011. [ 170 ] [ 171 ]
The men have been swamped with requests for television appearances.
Mario ("Super Mario") Sepúlveda was asked to participate with other
local stars in Chile's annual TV charity drive for children, the
Teleton .
Miami
TV host
Don Francisco
invited the men to his " Sabado Gigante ", an immensely popular Spanish-language television show that is the longest-running variety TV show in the world. [ 169 ]
Yonni Barrios has been offered US$100,000 to become the face of an
online dating service and to appear in advertisements in North, Central
and South America. [ 172 ]
A reflection of the fame of the situation is that the internet domain name
los33mineros.cl
has been bid on three times and
estamosbienenelrefugiolos33.cl
four times as of October 2010. [ 170 ]
Edison Peña accepted an invitation by the
New York Road Runners
to run the 41st
New York City Marathon . On his arrival at
Kennedy Airport
on 4 November 2010 he was welcomed by
Haile Gebrselassie
and
Hendrick Ramaala . [ 173 ]
He also appeared as guest on
CBS 's
Late Show with David Letterman
and was present at the
New York Stock Exchange 's closing bell ceremony, where he banged the gavel. [ 174 ]
Peña —an
Elvis Presley
fan— was invited by
Elvis Presley Enterprises
to visit
Graceland
during Elvis’ annual birthday celebration in January 2011 and also to visit
Las Vegas
to watch
Viva Elvis , a
Cirque du Soleil
show based on Elvis' music. [ 175 ]
The first of many expected TV documentaries was aired by NOVA on the US Public Broadcasting System on 26 October 2010. [ 176 ]
An Australian documentary will be broadcast in December 2010. [ 170 ]
Timeline of events This is a general
chronology
of the events, from the beginning:
5 August 2010  ( 2010-08-05 )  –
Rock-fall at the San José mine in
Atacama Desert
in northern Chile leaves 33 gold and copper miners trapped 2,300 feet below ground.
7 August 2010  ( 2010-08-07 )  –
Second collapse hampers rescue efforts and blocks access to lower parts of the mine. Rescuers begin drilling
boreholes
to send down listening devices.
22 August 2010  ( 2010-08-22 )  –
17
days after the first collapse, a note is found attached to one of the
probes, saying: "All 33 of us are well inside the shelter." The miners
were in a shelter having lunch when the first collapse occurred, and had
survived on rations. Food, medical supplies, clothes and bedding began
to be sent down the borehole.
27 August 2010  ( 2010-08-27 )  –
The miners send first video greetings to the surface.
30 August 2010  ( 2010-08-30 )  –
First attempt to drill a hole to rescue the men, Plan A, begins.
5 September 2010  ( 2010-09-05 )  –
Plan B drilling begins.
18 September 2010  ( 2010-09-18 )  –
Miners celebrate
Chilean Bicentennial
holiday underground. [ 177 ]
24 September 2010  ( 2010-09-24 )  –
Miners had now been trapped underground for 50 days, longer than anyone else in history.
9 October 2010  ( 2010-10-09 )  –
Plan B drill breaks through to the miners' workshop.
11 October 2010  ( 2010-10-11 )  –
"Fénix 2"
rescue capsule is tested to ensure that it can pass up and down the newly completed shaft.
12 October 2010  ( 2010-10-12 )  –
Rescue begins at 23:20
CLDT .
13 October 2010  ( 2010-10-13 )  –
Last of the 33 miners is brought up to the surface and rescued, at 21:56
CLDT . [ 29 ]
14 October 2010  ( 2010-10-14 )  –
First 3 miners released from hospital.
15 October 2010  ( 2010-10-15 )  –
28 more miners released from hospital, 2 remain for further treatment; dental and psychological follow-up.
16 October 2010  ( 2010-10-16 )  –
Mario Sepúlveda was discharged from hospital after additional psychological tests.
19 October 2010  ( 2010-10-19 )  –
Víctor Zamora released from hospital after having serious dental surgery. [ 157 ]
25 October 2010  ( 2010-10-25 )  –
The rescued miners were honored at
" La Moneda "
presidential palace, met with President
Sebastián Piñera , posed for pictures with the
"Fénix 2"
capsule and played a friendly game of football against a team from the rescuers at the
" Estadio Nacional " ( football ) (National Football Stadium). [ 178 ]
See also
Chile portal
Mining portal
Disasters portal
Kathy Fiscus
was a Californian child who fell down a well in 1949 and whose two day rescue attempt was broadcast live on radio and TV.
Alfredo Rampi
fell down a well in 1981 in Italy, the rescue attempt was broadcast live for 18 hours.
Jessica McClure
was a Texas toddler trapped in a well with the rescue televised live on CNN.
Quecreek Mine Rescue
involved a similar rescue capsule in Pennsylvania, July 2002 to rescue a trapped mining crew.
References
^
"Onemi confirma a 33 mineros atrapados en yacimiento en Atacama"
(in Spanish).
La Tercera . 6 August 2010 .
http://www.latercera.com/noticia/nacional/2010/08/680-282082-9-onemi-confirma-33-mineros-atrapados-tras-derrumbe-en-yacimiento-en-atacama.shtml . Retrieved 12 October 2010 .
^
Illiano, Cesar (9 October 2010).
"Rescue near for Chile miners trapped for 2 months" . Reuters AlertNet .
http://www.alertnet.org/thenews/newsdesk/N08212025.htm . Retrieved 11 October 2010 .
^
Chilean mine rescue watched by millions online , Canadian Broadcasting Corp., 14 October 2010
^
a
b
c
Haroon Siddique (23 August 2010).
"Chilean miners found alive – but rescue will take four months" . London: The Guardian .
http://www.guardian.co.uk/world/2010/aug/23/miners-trapped-alive-chile . Retrieved 23 August 2010 .
^
a
b
"Trapped Chile miner's family sues owners and officials" . BBC News. 26 August 2010 .
http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/world-latin-america-11102478 . Retrieved 27 August 2010 .
^
a
b
c
d
e
f
Govan, Fiona, Aislinn Laing and Nick Allen (26 August 2010).
"Families of trapped Chilean miners to sue mining firm" . London Daily Telegraph .
http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/southamerica/chile/7966590/Families-of-trapped-Chilean-miners-to-sue-mining-firm.html . Retrieved 26 August 2010 .
^
69-day trapped Chilean miners being lifted one by one to safety , Asian Tribune, Hallstavik, Sweden, By Gopal Ethiraj, 14 October 2004
^
a
b
"First of 33 trapped miners reaches surface" . CNN. 12 October 2010 .
http://news.blogs.cnn.com/2010/10/13/workers-begin-to-rescue-trapped-chilean-miners/?hpt=T1&iref=BN1 . Retrieved 12 October 2010 .
^
a
b
Hutchison, Peter; Malkin, Bonnie; Bloxham, Andy (12 October 2010).
"Chile Miners Rescue: Live" . London Daily Telegraph .
http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/southamerica/chile/8058924/Chile-Miners-Rescue-Live.html . Retrieved 12 October 2010 .
^
a
b
"Chile mine rescue" .
BBC News . 13 October 2010 .
http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/world-latin-america-11489439 .
^
First Chile miners leave hospital
- Australian Broadcasting Corporation (15 October 2010) - Retrieved 18 October 2010
^
"Chile's textbook mine rescue brings global respect - WBAY-TV Green Bay-Fox Cities-Northeast Wisconsin News" . Wbay.com. 13 October 2010 .
http://www.wbay.com/Global/story.asp?S=13318937 . Retrieved 18 October 2010 .
^
Jones, Sam (27 August 2010).
"Trapped Chilean miners sing national anthem in footage from inside mine" .
The Guardian
(London) .
http://www.guardian.co.uk/world/2010/aug/27/trapped-chilean-miners-video%20© .
^
From collapse to rescue: Inside the Chile mine disaster , Toronto Star, Jennifer Yang, 10 Oct 2010
^
"Rescuers struggle to reach trapped miners in Chile" .
Mining Weekly . Reuters. 6 August 2010 .
http://www.miningweekly.com/article/rescuers-struggle-to-reach-trapped-miners-in-chile-2010-08-06 . Retrieved 23 August 2010 .
^
"New video gives tour of trapped miners' refuge"  –
Associated Press writers – Bradley Brooks and Peter Prengaman – with
Federico Quilodran in Copiapo, Eduardo Gallardo in Santiago, and Michael
Warren in Buenos Aires, Argentina, contributing to this report. The
Associated Press, (NBC26.com) 28 August 2010 – Copyright 2010.
^
Unions Say Mining Becoming More Dangerous in Chile
Latin American Herald Tribune , 9 August 2010
^
"A worrying precedent" . The Economist. 7 September 2006 .
http://www.economist.com/node/7894761?story_id=7894761 . Retrieved 23 August 2010 .
^
a
b
c
"Celebration before a hard slog" . The Economist. 23 August 2010 .
http://www.economist.com/blogs/americasview/2010/08/chiles_trapped_miners . Retrieved 23 August 2010 .
^
The Media Circus at Chile's San José Mine
Spiegel Online, 8 September 2010
^
a
b
c
Vila, Narayan (7 August 2010).
"Amplio despliegue para rescatar a mineros atrapados" .
La Nación (Chile) .
http://www.lanacion.cl/amplio-despliegue-para-rescatar-a-mineros-atrapados/noticias/2010-08-06/210402.html . Retrieved 12 October 2010 .
^
Navarrete, Camila (6 August 2010).
"Se confirman las identidades de mineros atrapados en mina San José en Región de Atacama"
(in Spanish). Radio Bío Bío .
http://www.radiobiobio.cl/2010/08/06/se-confirman-las-identidades-de-mineros-atrapados-en-mina-san-jose-en-region-de-atacama/ . Retrieved 12 October 2010 .
^
Estos son los mineros chilenos atrapados
El Espectador, 24 August 2010
^
Tim King
"LIVE VIDEO: Rescue of Miners in Chile Comes to Fruition"
Salem-News.com, 12 October 2010
^
a
b
c
d
e
Franklin, Jonathan (25 August 2010).
"Chilean miners' families pitch up at Camp Hope" . London: The Guardian .
http://www.guardian.co.uk/world/2010/aug/25/chilean-miners-families-camp-hope . Retrieved 27 August 2010 .
^
a
b
Channel 4
British TV program
Buried Alive: The Chilean Mine Rescue , 8 pm to 9 pm, Wednesday 27 October 2010
^
Soto, Alonso (24 August 2010).
"Chile sets sight on escape shaft for trapped miners" . Reuters .
http://www.reuters.com/article/idUSN24255937 . Retrieved 27 August 2010 .
^
Franklin, Jonathan (5 September 2010).
"Luis Urzua, the foreman keeping hope alive for Chile's trapped miners" . London: The Observer .
http://www.guardian.co.uk/world/2010/sep/05/luis-urzua-chile-trapped-miners . Retrieved 14 October 2010 .
^
a
b
Ross Lydall
"Tears of joy as Chile miners complete their great escape"
London Evening Standard, 13 October 2010
^
"Ministro Golborne: El acceso por la chimenea ya no es una opción"
(in Spanish).
Radio Cooperativa (Chile) . 7 August 2010 .
http://www.cooperativa.cl/ministro-golborne--el-acceso-por-la-chimena-ya-no-es-una-opcion/prontus_nots/2010-08-07/160054.html . Retrieved 12 October 2010 .
^
"Piñera vuelve a Chile y viajará a zona del accidente en la mina San José"
(in Spanish).
La Tercera . 7 August 2010 .
http://www.latercera.com/noticia/politica/2010/08/674-282431-9-pinera-vuelve-a-chile-y-viajara-a-zona-del-accidente-en-la-mina-san-jose.shtml . Retrieved 12 October 2010 .
^
After 17 days, trapped Chilean miners send note they're alive , CNN News, 22 August 2010
^
Sherwell, Philip (28 August 2010).
"Camp Hope families wait in Chile's Atacama Desert for trapped miners" .
London Daily Telegraph .
http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/southamerica/chile/7969542/Camp-Hope-families-wait-in-Chiles-Atacama-Desert-for-trapped-miners.html . Retrieved 28 August 2010 .
^
a
b
c
d
e
f
g
Prengaman, Peter (29 August 2010).
"Chile miners must move tons of rocks in own rescue" . Associated Press. Yahoo! News .
http://news.yahoo.com/s/ap/20100829/ap_on_re_la_am_ca/lt_chile_mine_collapse . Retrieved 13 October 2010 .
^
"Timeline: Trapped Chilean miners" . Reuters. 22 August 2010 .
http://www.reuters.com/article/idUSTRE67M0G820100823 . Retrieved 23 August 2010 .
^
André Sougarret: "Yo dependo de lo que diga el Presidente, pero hasta ahora me quedo"
(Spanish) La Tercera, F. Fuentes/M. Rodríguez/C. Pizarro,undated
^
Chesco company proud to help with Chilean miner rescue , The Mercury, Pennsylvania (US), Brian McCullough, 14 October 2010
^
"Chile: Sonda llega cerca de mineros atrapados"
(in Spanish). La Voz. 22 August 2010 .
http://www.lavoz.com.ar/noticias/sucesos/chile-sonda-llega-cerca-de-mineros-atrapados . Retrieved 23 August 2010 .
^
McMurtrie, Craig (24 August 2010).
"Aussie drill expert called to Chile mine rescue" .
ABC News (Australia) .
http://www.abc.net.au/news/stories/2010/08/24/2991575.htm?section=world . Retrieved 24 August 2010 .
^
"Trapped Chile miners alive but long rescue ahead" . Reuters. 22 August 2010 .
http://www.reuters.com/article/idUSTRE67L1H620100822 . Retrieved 13 October 2010 .
^
"Miners trapped in Chile mine for 17 days 'are alive'" . BBC News. 22 August 2010 .
http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/world-latin-america-11054376 . Retrieved 22 August 2010 .
^
a
b
c
"Trapped Chile miners receive food and water" . BBC News. 23 August 2010 .
http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/world-latin-america-11064687 . Retrieved 23 August 2010 .
^
a
b
c
Soto, Alonso (24 August 2010).
"Chile secures lifeline to trapped miners, sends aid" . Reuters .
http://uk.reuters.com/article/idUKTRE67L1NU20100824 . Retrieved 24 August 2010 .
^
a
b
Quilodran, Federico (24 August 2010).
"2nd bore hole reaches 33 trapped in Chile mine" . Associated Press .
http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/38830593/ns/world_news-americas/ . Retrieved 24 August 2010 .
^
"Trapped Chile miners give video tour of confinement" . BBC News. 27 August 2010 .
http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/world-latin-america-11106045 . Retrieved 27 August 2010 .
^
Freed Chile miner Mario Sepulveda reveals darkest days , London Daily Telegraph, 17 October 2010
^
a
b
Chile miners came to blows, but swore to keep details secret , London Daily Telegraph, Fiona Govan and Aislinn Laing, 15 October 2010
^
a
b
Video of the Trapped Chilean Miners Stirs a Country’s Emotions , The New York Times, Alexei Barrionnuevo, 27 August 2010
^
a
b
Man in the News: Luis Urzúa , Financial Times, London, Jude Webber and John Paul Rathbone, 15 October 2010
^
a
b
c
Chile miners: Rescued foreman Luis Urzúa's first interview , The Guardian (UK), Rory Carroll and Jonathan Franklin, 14 October 2010
^
a
b
Chilean mine foreman works heroically to keep hope alive , Taipei Times, China, Jonathan Franklin, 7 September 2010
^
Hutchison, Peter; Malkin, Bonnie; Bloxham, Andy (12 October 2010).
"Chile Miners Rescue: Live" . London Daily Telegraph .
http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/southamerica/chile/8058924/Chile-Miners-Rescue-Live.html . Retrieved 12 October 2010 .
^
a
b
c
Sutton, Robert I. (6 September 2010).
"Boss Luis Urzua and the Trapped Miners in Chile: A Classic Case of a Leadership, Performance, and Humanity" .
Psychology Today .
http://www.psychologytoday.com/blog/work-matters/201009/boss-luis-urzua-and-the-trapped-miners-in-chile . Retrieved 13 October 2010 .
^
Franklin, Jonathan (5 September 2010).
"Luis Urzúa, the foreman keeping hope alive for Chile's trapped miners" .
The Guardian
(London) .
http://www.guardian.co.uk/world/2010/sep/05/luis-urzua-chile-trapped-miners . Retrieved 13 October 2010 .
^
a
b
c
d
e
f
g
Nick Allen
Chile miners rescue: profiles of the 33 men , London Daily Telegraph, 12 October 2010
^
"Súper Mario" Sepúlveda se convierte en estrella del rescate de los mineros
El Nacional, 13 October 2010
^
"El hermano de Mario Sepúlveda destacó el buen humor del minero"
Cadena3, 14 October 2010
^
"CMineros confirman que están en perfecto estado de salud tras contacto por citófono"
(in Spanish). Radio BioBio. 23 August 2010 .
http://www.radiobiobio.cl/2010/08/23/mineros-confirman-que-estan-en-perfecto-estado-de-salud-tras-contacto-por-citofono/ . Retrieved 23 August 2010 .
^
a
b
c
d
"Chile miners face four-month wait for rescue" .
Associated Press .
MSNBC . 23 August 2010. Archived from
the original
on 24 August 2010 .
http://www.webcitation.org/5sEM67Dmo . Retrieved 24 August 2010 .
^
Hough, Andrew and Damien McElroy (24 August 2010).
"Trapped Chile miners survived 18 days underground on pieces of tuna and milk" . London Daily Telegraph .
http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/southamerica/chile/7961349/Trapped-Chile-miners-survived-18-days-underground-on-pieces-of-tuna-and-milk.html . Retrieved 27 August 2010 .
^
a
b
c
Franklin, Jonathan (27 August 2010).
"NASA helping in historic rescue of trapped Chilean miners" . The Washington Post .
http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2010/08/27/AR2010082704867.html . Retrieved 27 August 2010 .
^
a
b
"Chile's trapped miners told rescue could take months" . BBC News. 25 August 2010 .
http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/world-latin-america-11092343 . Retrieved 25 August 2010 .
^
a
b
c
d
Laing, Aislinn and Nick Allen (27 August 2010).
"Chile miners give video tour of cave" . London Daily Telegraph .
http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/southamerica/chile/7968125/Chile-miners-give-video-tour-of-cave.html . Retrieved 27 August 2010 .
^
Daily rigors of underground life to end for Chile miners , AsiaOne News, AFP with Gael Favennec, 11 October 2010
^
Martyn McLaughlin
Trapped miners told: 'work 24 hour shifts and remove 4,000 tonnes of rock , The Scotsman, 31 August 2010
^
Fiona Govan
Trapped miners form micro-society to keep them sane , London Daily Telegraph,3 September 2010
^
Victor Herrero
To relieve miners' hell: Latrine, books, antidepressants? , USA Today, 26 August 2010
^
a
b
c
d
Franklin, Jonathan (26 August 2010).
"Trapped Chilean miners face long shifts to keep their refuge clear of debris" . London: The Guardian .
http://www.guardian.co.uk/world/2010/aug/26/trapped-chilean-miners-clear-debris . Retrieved 27 August 2010 .
^
a
b
c
Jonathan Franklin
Chilean miners: A typical day in the life of a subterranean miner , The Guardian, 9 September 2010
^
Hough, Andrew (9 September 2010).
"Chilean miners' new medical 'survival kits' used by
British
troops". London Daily Telegraph .
http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/southamerica/chile/7981437/Chilean-miners-new-medical-survival-kits-used-by-British-troops.html . Retrieved 9 September 2010 .
^
"Get us out of underground 'hell,' Chile miners plead" . Agence France-Presse. 25 August 2010 .
http://www.google.com/hostednews/afp/article/ALeqM5hHejkzmj_dWqXSObe-VR3LGdt9ag . Retrieved 25 August 2010 .
^
"NASA Provides Assistance to Trapped Chilean Miners" . NASA. 1 September 2010 .
http://www.nasa.gov/news/chile_assistance.html . Retrieved 2 September 2010 .
^
Miners' Rescue In Chile: An Inspiring Note: We’re OK, All 33 (Special Report Excerpt)(English) , The Santiago Times, Kara Frantzich and Ricardo Pommer
^
a
b
c
Sibley, Robert,
Reborn
from the belly of the Earth: The Chilean miners could well look back on
their ordeal as an experience that revealed something of their soul , Ottawa Citizen, 14 October 2010
^
"Holy Father gives thanks for rescue of Chilean miners" , Catholic News Agency, 13 October 2010
^
"How will trapped Chile miners cope?" .
CNN . 23 August 2010 .
http://articles.cnn.com/2010-08-30/world/chile.miners.love.story_1_miners-chile-rescue-workers?_s=PM:WORLD .
^
Franklin, Jonathan; Carroll, Rory (13 October 2010).
"Chilean miners: 'We never lost faith. We knew we would be rescued'" .
The Guardian
(London) .
http://www.guardian.co.uk/world/2010/oct/13/chilean-miners-rescued-health .
^
Mooney, Bel (14 October 2010).
"God and the Devil were in that mine. But it was God - and the human spirit - that triumphed" .
Daily Mail
(London) .
http://www.dailymail.co.uk/debate/article-1320336/Chile-Rescue-The-Devil-God-human-spirit-triumphed.html?ito=feeds-newsxml .
^
a
b
Pappas, Stephanie,
How 69 Days underground affects spirituality , MSNBC, 14 October 2010
^
a
b
Leichman, Aaron J.,
Prayers Persist as World Witnesses Rescue of Chilean Miners , The Christian Post, 13 October 2010
^
Federico Quilodrán (AP)
Dinner for Chile miners — 2 spoonfuls of tuna , MSNBC.com, 24 August 2010
^
Reygadas Children
Chile miners: Family's diary , BBC News, August to October 2010
^
"Joyous families end long vigil at Chile's "Camp Hope"" .
Reuters . 14 October 2010 .
http://af.reuters.com/article/metalsNews/idAFN1411723720101014?sp=true .
^
a
b
"Faith plays key role for trapped Chilean miners, families" .
CNN . 9 September 2010 .
http://religion.blogs.cnn.com/2010/09/09/faith-plays-key-role-for-trapped-chilean-miners-families/ .
^
Vanessa Buschschluter
High heels and hairdos: Chile countdown begins , BBC News, 11 October 2010
^
Moises Avila Roldan
Miners no longer in dark: rescue months away , Sydney Morning Herald, 27 August 2010
^
Simon Romero, Humanity Is Drawn to Scene of Rescue , NY Times, 12 October 2010
^
Matthew Moffett
Underground Dreams: Beer, Hugs and Weddings , Wall Street Journal, 28 August 2010
^
a
b
c
d
e
f
g
h
i
j
k
l
Miners's Recue In Chile: An Unprecendent Rescue Begins (Special Report)(English) , The Santiago Times, Dominique Farrell and Dustin Zarnikow
^
Page 5,
San José Mine Rescue Operation
presentation, Ministry of Mining, Republic of Chile.
^
Model 950 Strata Raisebore Machine - Drill Rig Specifications PDF , RUC Cementation Mining Contractors, (English)
^
Rescuers face tough challenge to save Chile miners , BBC News, Adrian Brown, 26 August 2010
^
Brown, Adrian (26 August 2010).
"Rescuers face tough challenge to save Chile miners" . BBC News .
http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/world-latin-america-11089726 . Retrieved 27 August 2010 .
^
'Unconventional' drilling could free trapped Chilean miners , The Engineer (UK), Siobhan Wagner, 26 August 2010
^
"Center Rock Drill Breaks Through to Trapped Chilean Miners" .
Cygnus . For Construction Pros. 11 October 2010 .
http://www.forconstructionpros.com/print/Equipment-Today/Featured-Equipment-Today-Online-Articles/Center-Rock-Drill-Breaks-Through-to-Trapped-Chilean-Miners/5FCP18070 . Retrieved 13 October 2010 .
^
Schramm Airdrill T130XD Rig Specifications PDF , Schramm Inc.
^
'Plan B' rises to the top for miners , Houston Chronical (US), Zain Shauk, 13 October 2010
^
Precision Drilling Corpora. RIG 421 Specifications PDF , Precision Drilling
^
"Canadian effort to reach trapped Chilean miners lagging" . Canadian Globe and Mail. 5 October 2010 .
http://www.theglobeandmail.com/news/world/americas/canadian-effort-to-reach-trapped-chilean-miners-lagging/article1744464 . Retrieved 18 October 2010 .
^
Canadian drillers content with losing race to reach Chilean miners – for the most part , Canadian Globe and Mail, 10 October 2010
^
La perforadora llegó al refugio donde se encuentran los mineros , La Nación On-Line, 9 October 2010.
^
"Estado del operativo de rescate" .
Ministerio de Minería . Gobierno de Chile. 8 October 2010 .
http://www.minmineria.gov.cl/574/w3-article-8648.html .
^
BACKGROUND: "Phoenix" to pull Chilean miners out of the dark
Monsters and Critics, 11 October 2010.
^
Das Unglück von Lengede
Der Spiegel , 13 November 1963, nr. 46, 17. Jahrgang.
^
Fénix 2
Rescue Capsule, side view, opened , ABC News Online Graphic, 14 September 2010
^
Fénix 2
Rescue Capsule, top view, opened , ABC News Online Graphic, 14 September 2010
^
Images and description of the
Fénix 2
BBC News Online Graphic, 12 October 2010
^
Parker, Laura.
"To Design Miners' Escape Pod, NASA Thought Small" .
AOL News .
http://www.aolnews.com/world/article/nasa-engineer-clinton-cragg-thought-small-to-design-rescue-capsule-for-chilean-miners/19667140 . Retrieved 10 October 2010 .
^
a
b
"NASA-designed capsule helps free Chilean miners" . The Engineer. 13 October 2010 .
http://www.theengineer.co.uk/design-engineering/news/nasa-designed-capsule-helps-free-chilean-miners/1005467.article . Retrieved 13 October 2010 .
^
a
b
Govan, Fiona (14 September 2010).
"Chile miners: Engineers unveil 21 ins wide rescue capsule" . London Daily Telegraph .
http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/southamerica/chile/8002241/Chile-miners-engineers-unveil-21ins-wide-rescue-capsule.html . Retrieved 17 September 2010 .
^
Chile mine rescue bid nears completion
FT.com, 8 October 2010.
^
"El histórico rescate de los mineros arrancará el martes próximo" . La Nación On-Line. 7 October 2010 .
http://www.lanacion.com.ar/nota.asp?nota_id=1312964 .
^
"Evacuation of Chile miners 'likely to start Wednesday'" . BBC News. 10 October 2010 .
http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/world-latin-america-11509039 . Retrieved 11 October 2010 .
^
"Nearly half of miners now free in Chile rescue" . Associated Press. Forbes.com. 13 October 2010 .
http://www.forbes.com/feeds/ap/2010/10/13/general-lt-chile-mine-collapse_8009675.html?boxes=Homepagebusinessnews . Retrieved 14 October 2010 .
^
"Chile escape mine shaft lining 'completed'" .
BBC News
(British Broadcasting Corporation). 11 October 2010 .
http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/world-latin-america-11512355 . Retrieved 12 October 2010 .
^
Operation St. Lawrence a success, all 33 Chilean miners saved , Asia News, 14 October 2010
^
"DJ First Of Trapped Chile Miners Returns To Surface In Rescue Ops"
Dow Jones Commodities News via Comtex, 12 October 2010 – News provided
by COMTEX – Copyright (c) 2010 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
^
"Chile Rescue: First miners out after 69 days underground"  – Perth Now – Copyright 2010 – The Sunday Times, 13 October 2010
^
Frank Bajak and Vivian Sequera, with contributions from Michael Warren and Eva Vergara
Nearly half of the miners now free in Chile rescue
Associated Press, 13 October 2010; Retrieved 16 October 2010
^
"Chile : Eleventh miner, Jorge Galleguillos, rescued" . NewsofAP.com. 13 October 2010 .
http://newsofap.com/newsofap-27055-26-chile-eleventh-miner-jorge-galleguillos-rescued.html . Retrieved 13 October 2010 .
^
"Mineros comienzan ayuno 6 horas antes del rescate" . LaNacion.cl. 11 October 2010 .
http://www.lanacion.cl/mineros-comienzan-ayuno-6-horas-antes-del-rescate/noticias/2010-10-11/143649.html . Retrieved 18 October 2010 .
^
Nathan Crooks and Randy Woods
Trapped Chile Miners Eat NASA Diet, Prepare for Rescue
Bloomberg (11 October 2010) – Retrieved 18 October 2010
^
a
b
"Amigos, Welcome Back from Hell – Tears and cheers greet Chilean miners
rescued after 68 days" – New York Post – Late City Final – 13 October
2010 – page 4.
^
"Sports Sunglasses Can Aid Chilean Miners' Transition" . Associated Press.
Fox News Channel . 13 October 2010 .
http://www.foxnews.com/scitech/2010/10/13/sports-sunglasses-aim-ease-miners-transition/ . Retrieved 14 October 2010 .
^
“Trial lowering of rescue capsule is a success” ,
The Columbus Dispatch , 12 October 2010; Retrieved 17 October 2010
^
Jones, Sam; Franklin, Jonathan (8 October 2010).
"Trapped Chilean miners: rescue teams hope to start evacuation by Tuesday" .
The Guardian
(London) .
http://www.guardian.co.uk/world/2010/oct/08/trapped-chilean-miners-shaft-nears .
^
Live: Chile Miners Rescue Begins Soon
Sky News. 13 October 2010. Retrieved on 16 October 2010.
^
Live: Chile Mine Rescue
Sky News, 13 October 2010.
^
How the Miners Have Won Respect for Chile's Workers , Time Magazine, Tim Padgett, 14 October 2010
^
"Fin del rescate de los mineros: una epopeya con final feliz"
BBC News Mundo-Noticias, 14 October 2010
^
"Lid is placed on Chile mine shaft" . BBC News. 14 October 2010 .
http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/world-latin-america-11539784 . Retrieved 14 October 2010 .
^
Hora y nombres definidos para el rescate
El Pais, 12 October 2010
^
Rescate mineros chilenos llega a fase final antes de lo previsto
PrensaLibre.com, 13 October 2010
^
VINCULAR A TODO LISTO PARA EL RESCATE DE LOS MINEROS
Colpisa Clasico, 12 October 2010
^
"Jubilation as Chile mine rescue ends" .
BBC News . 13 October 2010 .
http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/world-latin-america-11170852 .
^
"As it happened: Chile mine rescue" . BBC News. 13 October 2010 .
http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/americas/9086813.stm . Retrieved 18 October 2010 .
^
Message which brought hope now copyright of Chile miner , BBC News, 20 October 2010
^
Entregan lista preliminar de mineros atrapados en mina San Esteban en Copiapó
(Spanish) (THIS LIST IS INCORRECT), El Mercurio, Santiago, Chile, 6 August 2010
^
"¿Quiénes son los 33 mineros? (Who are the 33 Miners?)"
(Spanish) (THIS LIST IS CORRECT), Chilean Ministry of Mining Official Website, Chile, 12 October 2010.
^
Rescuer reaches trapped men in Chile mine
Yahoo! News, 12 October 2010.
^
a
b
c
d
e
f
Minuto a minuto: Mineros arriban al hospital de Copiapó y "Fénix II" reinicia labores
(Spanish) Emol Chile, 13 October 2010
^
a
b
Dramáticas historias tras el histórico rescate , El Mercurio, 15 October 2010 (Spanish)
^
Frank Bajak and Vivian Sequera
Dramatic endgame nears for trapped Chile miners , The Miami Herald, 11 October 2010
^
By comparing his descent time with the times in the "Rescued miners" list
^
Tran, Mark; Weaver, Matthew; Gabbatt, Adam (12 October 2010).
"Chilean miners rescue – part 1" .
The Guardian
(London) .
http://www.guardian.co.uk/world/blog/2010/oct/12/chilean-miners-rescue-live-coverage .
^
Lula, Chávez, Cristina Fernández y David Cameron felicitan a Piñera
BBC News Mundo, 13 October 2010. (Spanish)
^
Historic rescue completed , South African Government, 14 October 2010
^
President congratulates Chile
Prezydent.pl, 14 October 2010.
^
"David Cameron congratulates Chilean President on rescue" .
BBC News . 13 October 2010 .
http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/uk-politics-11536093 .
^
"Cowen congratulates Chile on rescue operation" .
BreakingNews.ie . 14 October 2010 .
http://www.breakingnews.ie/ireland/cowen-congratulates-chile-on-rescue-operation-477634.html .
^
a
b
Celebrations erupt across Chile as first men emerge from mine
New Kerala, 13 October 2010
^
"Obama Salutes Chile and Rescue" .
The New York Times . 13 October 2010 .
http://www.nytimes.com/2010/10/14/world/americas/14obamachile.html .
^
Pope prays for Chilean miners
Independent Catholic News, 13 October 2010
^
Rory Carroll
When the miners' leader met the president, two sides of Chile embraced , The Guardian, 17 October 2010
^
Presidente Piñera tras el rescate de los 33 mineros: “Chile hoy día está más unido y más fuerte que nunca”
(Spanish), Chilean Presidential Web Site, Speech Extracts, 13 October 2010
^
a
b
Philip Sherwell
Chile miners' new battle to adapt to normality , London Daily Telegraph, 16 October 2010
^
a
b
c
d
Raphael, Angie (18 October 2010).
"Freed miners return to Camp Hope" . Herald Sun .
http://www.heraldsun.com.au/news/breaking-news/freed-miners-return-to-camp-hope/story-e6frf7jx-1225939966063 . Retrieved 18 October 2010 .
^
Media carnival follows still vulnerable miners , Irish Times, 16 October 2010
^
a
b
Caroline Alphonso
Miners watched closely for physical and mental health problems , Canada Globe and Mail, 15 October 2010
^
a
b
Chile mine: Rescued men attend service of thanks , BBC News, 17 October 2010
^
Police protect Chilean miners from media crowd , Maria Lorente, 18 October 2010
^
Chile miners plan mine safety group , The Sydney Morning Herald, Australia, 18 October 2010
^
Chile's saved miners play football match against their rescuers , London Daily Telegraph, Fiona Govan, 25 October 2010
^
a
b
"Chile’s Commission On Work Safety Delivers Preliminary Report To President Sebastián Piñera" , Written by Dominique Farrell, October 26, 2010. (English)
^
Final Cost For Chile Mine Rescue Is Tallied , Santiago Times, Dominique Farrell, 13 October (English)
^
Mining rescue lifts Chile's credit rating up into the light , The Guardian, London, Andrew Clark, 17 October 2010,
^
Chile mine rescue: towns fight over Phoenix 2 capsule , London Daily Telegraph, 18 October 2010
^
a
b
How the media in Chile helped focus the eyes of the world on the miners , The Guardian (UK), Rory Carroll, 18 October
^
a
b
Chile miners will 'speak as one' , London Daily Telegraph, Aislinn Laing, 15 October 2010
^
a
b
c
Chilean miner Jose Ricardo Ojeda Vidal copyrights 'los 33' , The Australian, Martin Fletcher and Laura Dixon, 22 October 2010
^
"Deals already on offer for Chilean miners' story"
- STV - Entertainment - October 14, 2010.
^
'Cheating' Chile miner Yonni Barrios wanted as face of dating website , London Daily Telegraph, Nick Allen, 19 October 2010
^
http://www.nytimes.com/2010/11/05/sports/05miner.html
^
http://www.nyse.com/events/1288952237656.html
^
http://content.usatoday.com/communities/entertainment/post/2010/11/chilean-miner-edison-pena-to-visit-david-letterman-/1
^
Emergency
Mine Rescue: Engineers and NASA scientists aid an all-out effort to
save 33 Chilean miners trapped nearly half a mile underground , NOVA (PBS), Aired October 26, 2010
^
Philip Sherwell
Trapped Chilean miners celebrate national day with meat pies feast , London Daily Telegraph, 18 September 2010
^
Chile: First rescued miners leave hospital
BBC News, 15 October 2010.
External links
News related to
2010 Copiapó mining accident
at
Wikinews
Media related to
2010 Copiapó mining accident
at
Wikimedia Commons
Official government websites Official Website of Chile's Government
(Spanish)
Official Website of the Ministry of Mining
(English Overview)
Photos Official Chilean Government Images
Flickr
Photo Sets, October 2010
High-Resolution, Aerial Image of Mine Site , (large image), DigiMapas, October 2010
Trapped Chilean Miners
Life magazine
Slideshow, October 2010
Chile mine rescue – Jubilation
BBC News Slideshow, October 2010
Videos Emergency Mine Rescue ,
NOVA
Documentary ,
PBS , 53 minutes, 26 October 2010
Miners Deep Inside Chilean Mine , CBS News, 3 minutes, 27 August 2010
Rescue Timeline (Plans with Animations) , CBS News, 4.5 minutes, 15 October 2010
Elation As Trapped Chile Miners Found Alive , Sky News, 1 minute, 23 August 2010
First of 33 Chilean Miners Rescued , CBS News, 1 minute, 12 October 2010
Final Chilean Miner Rescued , Fox News, 7 minutes, 14 October 2010
Miners on the Mend After Rescue , Reuters News, 2 minutes, 14 August 2010
Retrieved from " http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2010_Copiap%C3%B3_mining_accident " Categories :
2010 Copiapó mining accident
|
Mining disasters in Chile
|
2010 mining disasters
|
Mining rescues
Posted by
MICHAEL
at
Wednesday, November 10, 2010
Labels:
2010 Copiapó mining accident ,
Navy ,
Wikipedia
Newer Post
Older Post
Home
By Years
1833
(1)
1836
(1)
1844
(11)
1848
(3)
1850
(2)
1862
(1)
1863
(1)
1866
(1)
1867
(1)
1898
(1)
1932
(2)
1935
(1)
1938
(3)
1939
(1)
1947
(2)
1950
(1)
1958
(1)
1960
(1)
1961
(1)
1962
(1)
1964
(6)
1965
(1)
1966
(2)
1967
(2)
1968
(1)
1969
(1)
1972
(1)
1973
(1)
1976
(1)
1977
(3)
1978
(2)
1979
(15)
1980
(2)
1981
(9)
1982
(3)
1984
(1)
1986
(1)
1989
(6)
1990
(17)
1991
(10)
1992
(4)
1993
(15)
1994
(4)
1997
(2)
1999
(3)
2001
(3)
2002
(4)
2003
(2)
Search This Blog
Loading...
Blog Archive
►
2011
(102)
►
October
(9)
►
August
(11)
►
July
(2)
►
June
(9)
►
May
(8)
►
March
(12)
►
February
(14)
►
January
(37)
▼
2010
(1206)
►
December
(108)
▼
November
(264)
Dispelling Imperialistic and War Criminal Theology...
Nation of Islam
Caffeine [interference with depressants, conspirac...
Executive order (United States)
UFO religion
Ketosis [poisoning crime]
Gluconeogenesis [poisoning crime]
Ovation Pharmaceuticals
[counterfeited or adulter...
Henry David Thoreau (philosophy)
Maytag (May)
General Motors [symbolic of military rank]
List of American Civil War battles
United States Army officer rank insignia (General,...
Influenza A virus subtype H5N1 [disinformation]
Murder
Molotov–Ribbentrop Pact [complicity]
Jonathan Pollard (namesake)
Castor and Pollux
Kohen (history)
Levi Cohen Lehman [priesthood name symbolism]
9/11 Commission
Anita Bryant (orchestrated movements)
Exxon Valdez
Eastern Orthodox Church (symbolic Grecia)
History of Polish intelligence services
Ali al-Sistani (orchestrated movements)
Muqtada al-Sadr (orchestrated movements)
Tom Dooley (song) (historical figure)
Aleph Alpha Alif [ex. Mcauliff, Olafsen]
Axl Rose [axelrod]
Sweet Child o' Mine
Scooter Libby
Mossad
Saladin (Salhedrin, Salahuddin) [historic allusion...
Winn-Dixie (Wyn, Wein)
red
Mohamed Atta
Zacarias Moussaoui
Mount Hood
Fort Hood shooting
Ali Hassan al-Majid
Josef Mengele [angel of death biblical allusion]
Edmund Gosse [historical figure]
Henrik Ibsen [historical figure]
Leo Tolstoy [historical figure]
Jerusalem Embassy Act [holy mountains]
David Levy Yulee
28th United States Congress
29th United States Congress (1845)
Elizabeth Cady Stanton
Johnson & Wales University
Lech Wałęsa
(Poland) (orchestrated movements)
battle of Antietam [anti +atham(hebrew)]
Lambeth (disambiguation)
Thomas Edison, Henry Ford,
Bell
Martin Luther King, Jr. [historical allusion] [orc...
Martin Luther [historical figure]
Universal businesses
Paradise Lost [historical figure Milton]
The Hershey Company [hoerscherl][hirsch]
Six Flags
Category:Companies that have filed for Chapter 11 ...
Extortion
T. Rowe Price [allusion roe]
Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer [allusions -Wyn, Lion]
List of The Jack Benny Program episodes
Edgar Bergen (puppet allusion to Mr Joseph Mccarth...
rock
[craig, peter, rocca, Roche, the Lord]
List of Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer films
Bar and Bat Mitzvah [Bar (aramaic for son), Barr, ...
A. A. Wyn
and Wein [Wayne, Wein, Winn, Wy, Wynn, ...
Robert Kardashian (allusion to Kurdish)
Jalal Talabani (allusion to talaban)
Aventis (allusion to adventist)
Scion (automobile) (allusion to Zion)
Phonemic orthography
Shire (sar, czar, sirh, sire)
ImClone Systems (M clone)
polysemy (the ability of having multiple meanings)...
Chrysler (Christ)
Benjamin Wade
Gettysburg Address [allusions -Getty, civil war]
Michael Milken
Charles Keating
Economic Recovery Tax Act of 1981 (legislation und...
Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery and Enforc...
Satanism
Rationalization (making excuses)
List of fallacies (deception)
Concorde
Operation Sea Lion
Khatyn massacre
Katyn massacre
2010 Polish Air Force Tu-154 crash
Bing Crosby
Social Security (United States)
Federal Project Number One
Arthur Miller
Joe DiMaggio
Howard Hughes
June [six] 6
Apollo (disambiguation)
Apollo
Aries (astrology)
Taft–Hartley Act
Air traffic controllers strike
staging factors
me
Index
Mordecai Manuel Noah
Timeline of Zionism
inside joke (conceptual)
jargon
The Gay Science [philosophy]
The Concept of Anxiety
Lincoln (derivation)
Lion Lyn Leon Leonid Lennin
Jefferson F. Davis
Søren Kierkegaard and Friedrich Nietzsche
German idealism
Iron Mountain Incorporated [underground storage]
Cary Stayner
Steven Stayner
Knight Ridder
Tandy Corporation
Jonathan Edwards (theologian)
Secret sharing [flawed scheme]
Catholic sex abuse cases
Lynyrd Skynyrd
Ratlines (World War II)
Category:Executed Nazis
Claus Schilling
102nd United States Congress
102nd United States Congress
97th United States Congress
94th United States Congress
Project MKNAOMI
David Axelrod
Aaliyah
Herbert R. Axelrod (tropical fish)
Gregor Mendel
Lake Lucerne
[ Lucerne (disambiguati...
Friedrich Engels
Procter & Gamble
The Lady in Red
cover story
Concepts on [requisite; essential; necessary]
Entrapment
Angel Angelo Angel Engal Rangel Ingall [mispelling...
Black budget
Duloxetine (Cymbalta)
Pregabalin (Lyrica)
Enron scandal
Government National Mortgage Association
Fannie Mae
Freddie Mac
Raëlian beliefs and practices
Bernard Madoff
Ben Bernanke
Dominic [(of our Lord), Don, Lord]
Abbie Hoffman
Albert Hofmann
History of LSD (1938)
The Pentagon
Sarah [princess]
emperor [Keiser Czar Cesar ]
king [Reyes, Regal, Malak, Rex]
Allusion
Sir Edmund Hillary
Vladimir Putin
[Vladimir Lenin]
Dmitry Gennadyevich Medvedev
Dmitry Medvedev (Dmitri Mendeleev)
Siege of Lal Masjid
2007 Karachi bombing
Benazir Bhutto
From Wikipedia, the free e...
2006 Lebanon War
Court-martial
Military tribunal
Gaza flotilla raid
2010 Copiapó mining accident
2007 Iranian seizure of Royal Navy personnel
interweave
multiplex
data mining
Clark (cleric)(Definition)
Susan Smith
World government
Timeline of 19th century Muslim history
Timeline of 20th century Muslim history
Christianity in the 19th century
Austrian Empire
Holy Roman Empire
Robert E. Lee
Emancipation Proclamation
Fugitive Slave Act of 1850
Revolutions of 1848
French Revolution of 1848
Second French Empire
Treaty of London (1861)
Battle of Puebla
Ignacio Zaragoza
Cinco de Mayo
Arthur McDuffie
American Airlines Flight 587
Kyoto Protocol
1997
Abner Louima
Lynne Stewart
Omar Abdel-Rahman
William Kunstler
Ron Kuby
Colin Ferguson (convict)
Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi
Nelson Mandela
INDEX-historical
Jimmy Ryce [.. murdered by ....
Carlos Chavez]
Lionel Tate
Joran van der Sloot
AMBER Alert
Amber Hagerman
Murder of Dru Sjodin
Natalee Holloway
John Mark Karr ( Alexis Reich )
David Westerfield (Danielle Van Dam)
JonBenét Ramsey
Murder of Samantha Runnion
Faked kidnappings
Jonathan's Law
Murder of Sarah Payne
Jessica's Law
Jacob Wetterling
Murder of Adam Walsh
Disappearance of Madeleine McCann
Murder of Polly Klaas
Shawn Hornbeck Foundation
Kidnapping of Jaycee Lee Dugard
Íngrid Betancourt
Haleigh Cummings;
Tawana Brawley rape allegations
Elizabeth Smart kidnapping
Jessica Lunsford
Leningrad Affair
Siege of Leningrad
Saint Petersburg (Petrograd)
Utopia
Karl Marx
Marxism
James Cook Ayer
Alfred Jules Ayer
Third Anglo-Afghan War
temporary
INDEX -Religious
INDEX
internment-resettlement-specialist
Belshazzar
Ted Kaczynski
Timothy McVeigh
Bill Clinton
Catholic peace traditions (including persecution)
George W. Bush
Lyndon B. Johnson
Richard M. Nixon
February 11
Gerald Ford
►
October
(506)
►
September
(111)
►
August
(118)
►
June
(2)
►
May
(21)
►
April
(59)
►
March
(15)
►
February
(1)
►
January
(1)
►
2009
(182)
►
December
(37)
►
November
(54)
►
October
(83)
►
August
(2)
►
July
(1)
►
May
(1)
►
April
(1)
►
January
(3)
►
2008
(12)
►
December
(4)
►
November
(8)
►
1998
(1)
►
March
(1)
Labels
666
(8)
A man child
(2)
A man travailing with child
(2)
A song of moses
(1)
A time of trouble
(2)
A voice crying in the wilderness
(1)
abomination of desolation
(7)
Apollyon
(2)
Arm servant and light of the LORD God
(3)
Armageddon
(6)
As God
(4)
Babylon is fallen is fallen
(15)
Beheaded for the witness
(8)
Bel
(15)
Belief the seal of God
(1)
Bible based conspiracy
(15)
Christ
(17)
Christ Jesus
(3)
Christ Michael
(4)
CIA the false prophet
(9)
Crimes against Humanity
(24)
Cyrus
(4)
Darfur
(2)
Darkness and light
(1)
Deceivers of the world
(6)
dragon
(10)
earthquake
(3)
end of sacrifice
(1)
Faith
(11)
fasting
(2)
Foundation of the world
(1)
Glory of the Lord
(1)
Governor of Judah
(1)
Holy Ghost
(7)
Holy ground
(1)
It is Done
(5)
It is finished
(1)
Jacob
(4)
king of Babylon
(2)
King of the north
(3)
Light of the LORD God
(2)
Lion
(4)
living waters
(1)
LORD GOD OF TRUTH
(1)
Lord of hosts
(3)
Lucifer
(5)
Make it plain
(1)
Master of the house
(3)
Megiddon
(3)
mercy seat
(1)
Michael
(3)
Militaries
(9)
Morning star
(2)
opening and shutting
(4)
oppression
(8)
Past present Future tense
(4)
perdition
(6)
perfect in one
(1)
Personification of the word of the Lord God Almighty
(3)
Recompense
(3)
resurrection
(6)
Revelation like lightning
(2)
Revelation of the Son of man
(1)
Righteousness
(2)
Satan
(17)
Satan glorified
(2)
Satan the accuser before God
(1)
Satan transformed into an angel of light
(3)
Satan's pride
(2)
Scripture of truth
(3)
seal of the living God
(1)
self denial
(3)
self-denial
(1)
son of perdition
(2)
Spirit of truth
(7)
Spiritual body health
(1)
Spiritual defilement
(1)
Spiritual warfare
(1)
Swords to plowshares
(1)
The angel of the lord
(4)
The beast from the bottomless pit
(8)
The book of life of the lamb
(2)
The cup of wrath
(1)
The day of pentecost
(1)
the deadly wound healed
(1)
The dragon
(7)
The Euphrates
(1)
the everlasting gospel
(5)
The false prophet
(9)
The Father
(2)
the first and the last
(1)
The foundation of the world
(2)
The foundation to be laid
(1)
The gathering against the Son
(1)
The gathering against the word
(1)
the God of forces
(3)
the great earthquake
(3)
The house of David
(3)
The king of Babylon
(6)
The lamb slain
(1)
The latter rain
(2)
The lifted up serpent
(1)
the man clothed in linen
(2)
The mark of the beast
(3)
The mountain of God
(4)
The mourning of an only son
(4)
The mourning of an only son and judgment
(4)
The outerspace heaven
(1)
The perdition of the beast
(2)
The righteousness of faith
(1)
the seventh angel
(1)
The sign of the Son of man
(1)
The Son
(3)
the son of perdition
(7)
the sons
(1)
The Spirit of grace
(2)
The Spirit of grace Judgment
Conscience Faith and
Knowledge
(1)
The spirit of his mouth
(2)
The Spirit of truth
(2)
The strait gate
(1)
The time of Jacob's trouble
(2)
The time of trouble
(2)
The times of the gentiles
(2)
The token of God
(2)
The two edged sword
(3)
The verb to be
(3)
The walls to be built
(1)
The war against the saints
(2)
The water of life
(1)
The widowhood of babylon
(2)
The Word
(7)
The word in heaven
(3)
Threats
(1)
Thy will be done
(1)
Time No longer
(1)
Touch not mine anointed
(1)
Transgression of desolation
(6)
translate
(1)
Translation
(2)
Translation Key
(6)
Translation of the kingdom
(2)
Trodden under foot
(3)
Turning things upside down
(5)
Wake from the dust
(1)
War
(5)
War in heaven
(8)
whale
(4)
Whoredom
(3)
Word of God
(11)
Word of life
(2)
Works and rest
(1)
worlds
(2)
Worshipped creatures
(3)
wrath of God
(4)
written in earth
(1)
written in heaven
(1)
Written in the book
(7)
Zion
(3)
Followers
Powered by
Blogger .
Key of David
clipart courtesy of http://www.christart.com/
In modern day terms
*
(4)
*Federal Project Number One
(1)
*Great Society
(1)
*Jerusalem Embassy Act
(1)
*National Security Act of 1947
(1)
*Social Security (United States)
(1)
*Taft–Hartley Act
(1)
1844
(11)
1964
(6)
1979
(15)
1988
(10)
1990
(17)
1:1
(21)
2001 shoe bomb plot
(1)
46664
(1)
7 July 2005 London bombings
(1)
9-1-1
(1)
9/11
(3)
abomination of desolation
(7)
ADA Signing Ceremony - July 26
(2)
Afghanistan
(5)
Al qaeda
(2)
Alpha 66
(1)
Anwar El Sadat
(2)
Arab Socialist Union
(1)
Armageddon
(6)
August 2 1990
(1)
August 8 1990
(1)
Beast
(11)
Beheaded for the witness
(8)
CIA conspiracy
(12)
CIA the false prophet
(9)
Civil Rights Act of 1964
(2)
consent of congress
(3)
conspiracy
(38)
Crimes against Humanity
(24)
Cults
(15)
Cyrus
(4)
Darfur
(2)
definition- premise
(1)
definition-Impostor
(1)
disease?
(12)
E. Howard Hunt
(2)
Ellis Rubin
(11)
Entertainment
(17)
Ethnic Muslims
(3)
Euphrates
(3)
George
(2)
George Bush
(3)
George H.W. Bush
(15)
George H.W. Bush - Signing Americans with Disibilities Act
(1)
George Herbert Walker Bush
(2)
GHB
(2)
Goldman Sachs
(1)
heavy metal
(2)
Hired under Conspiracy
(12)
HIV
(4)
Hogan
(1)
Hogan's Heroes
(1)
International Emergency Economic Powers Act
(1)
Iran
(4)
Iraq
(6)
Islamic Theocracy
(5)
Japanese American internment
(1)
Jeb Bush
(1)
John Foster Dulles
(1)
Judge Advocate General's Corps
(1)
July 26 1990
(2)
July 30 1990
(3)
Kofi Annan
(3)
Koresh
(2)
Kosovo
(4)
Kurdish
(1)
Lamb
(6)
Leo Ryan
(1)
Leonid Brezhnev
(1)
Melvin R. Laird
(1)
Michaels
(16)
Militaries
(9)
Motif (narrative)
(1)
National Emergencies Act
(2)
National Emergency
(7)
National Emergency orders
(1)
National Guard
(8)
NATO
(5)
NATO / OTAN
(5)
October
(8)
October 9
(5)
Osama Bin Laden
(3)
Outer Space
(12)
Pan Am Flight 103 bombing trial
(1)
perdition
(6)
Persian Gulf War
(2)
PLO
(1)
poisoning
(5)
President Bush Announcing Invasion of Iraq
(1)
prisoners
(8)
Rajiv Gandhi
(2)
Ramsey Clark
(1)
Recompense
(3)
Saddam Hussein
(3)
seal of the living God
(1)
Six-Day War
(2)
Slobodan Milosevic
(1)
Somalia
(3)
Space
(7)
Space shuttle
(1)
Spaceflight
(4)
symbol of 5
(15)
Symbolic names
(37)
Symptomatic treatment
(5)
Taleban
(1)
Taliban
(5)
Texas
(4)
The beast from the bottomless pit
(8)
The book
(10)
The Cuban Missile Crisis
(1)
the everlasting gospel
(5)
The Magnificent Seven
(1)
The times of the gentiles
(2)
The vision
(3)
The widowhood of babylon
(2)
Trading with the Enemy Act
(1)
Translation
(2)
Triliteral
(7)
United Nations General Assembly
(1)
United Nations resolution
(4)
United States Office of the Independent Counsel
(1)
Universal declaration of human rights
(4)
Usama Bin Laden
(1)
USSR
(1)
Venus
(1)
video
(6)
War crimes
(7)
War in Afghanistan
(1)
War in Afghanistan (2001–present)
(2)
Wilderness
(3)
worlds
(2)
xtoc I oil spill
(1)
Yom Kippur War
(1)
Zion
(3)