MARY, OUR MOTHER: January 2009
Mother Mary said at Fatima: "My Immaculate Heart will be your refuge and the sure way which will lead you to God." St. Thomas Aquinas said: "The things we love tell us who we are!" With that in mind, I will try to post each day something about Our Blessed Lady, items about the Holy Roman Catholic Church, and public domain Catholic books too! I pray you enjoy my ministry!
Below are two albums of pictures that I created:
1. Our grand daughter Adrianna.
2. Tears of Mary!
MARY, OUR MOTHER
Saturday, January 31, 2009
The Mother of the Word
Apparition in Africa: Our Lady of Sorrows
by Mary Jo Anderson
1/29/09
Twelve years before the genocide in Rwanda
that would claim the lives of a million people, the "Mother of the Word" appeared to a pious 16-year-old girl, Alphonsine Mumreke, in the remote village of Kibeho. The Virgin's first appearance was in late 1981 at a school administered by religious sisters whose students were predominantly Catholic, though some were Protestant and Muslim. Continue reading this article here:
http://insidecatholic.com/Joomla/index.php?option=com_content&task=view&id=5325&Itemid=48
Posted by
Deacon John Giglio Jr
at
7:04 PM
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share to Pinterest
FROM MARK MALLETT: Pope Benedict and the Two Columns
FEAST OF ST. JOHN BOSCO
First published July 18th, 2007, I have updated this writing on this feast day of
St. John Bosco . Again, when I update these writings, it’s because I sense Jesus saying He wants us to hear it again…
Note: Many readers are writing me reporting that they are no longer able to receive these newsletters, even though they’ve subscribed. The number of these instances is increasing every month. The only solution is to make it a habit to check this website every couple of days to see if I have posted a new writing. Sorry about this inconvenience. You can try writing your server and ask that all emails from markmallett.com be allowed through to your email. Also, make sure that the junk filters in your email program are not filtering out these emails. Lastly, I thank all of you for your letters to me. I try to respond whenever I can, but the obligations of my ministry and family life often require that I am brief or simply unable to respond at all. Thank you for understanding.
I HAVE
written here before that I believe we are living in the days of the prophetic
dream of St. John Bosco
(read the full text
here .) It is a dream in which the Church, represented as a
great flagship , is bombarded and attacked by several enemy vessels surrounding it. The dream seems more and more to fit our times…
THE TWO VATICAN COUNCILS?
In the dream, which appears to take place over a number of decades, St. John Bosco foresees two councils:
All the captains come aboard and gather around the Pope. They hold a meeting, but meantime the wind and the waves gather in storm, so they are sent back to control their own ships. There comes a short lull; for a second time the Pope gathers the captains around him, while the flag-ship goes on its course.
— Forty Dreams of St. John Bosco , compiled and edited by Fr. J. Bacchiarello, S.D.B.
It is after these councils, which may be Vatican I and Vatican II, that a terrible storm rages against the Church.
THE ATTACKS
In the dream, St. John Bosco recounts:
The battle rages ever more furious. Beaked prows ram the flagship again and again, but to no avail, as, unscathed and undaunted, it keeps on its course.
— Catholic Prophecy ,
Sean Patrick Bloomfield, P.58
Nothing could be truer as the course of the Church has been steadfast in this turbulent days. Nothing, says
Pope Benedict XVI , will deter the truth.
The Church… intends to continue to raise her voice in defense of mankind, even when policies of States and the majority of public opinion moves in the opposite direction. Truth, indeed, draws strength from itself and not from the amount of consent it arouses.
—POPE BENEDICT XVI, Vatican, March 20, 2006
But this does not mean the Church cannot be wounded. The dream continues…
At times, a formidable ram splinters a gaping hole in its hull, but immediately, a breeze from the two columns instantly seals the gash.
— Catholic Prophecy ,
Sean Patrick Bloomfield, P.58
Again, Pope Benedict described such a scene when, before being elected, he likened the Church to…
…a boat about to sink, a boat taking in water on every side.
—Cardinal Ratzinger, March 24, 2005,
Good Friday meditation on the Third Fall of Christ
The Two Columns referred to in the dream are a smaller column with a statue of the Blessed
Virgin Mary
on top, and a second, larger pillar with a Eucharistic Host atop. It is from these Two Columns that a "breeze" comes and instantly seals the wounds.
Under the present Holy Father, I believe two great gashes in the hull of the Church are being healed.
THE MASS WOUND
I am too young to recall the Tridentine Rite—the Latin Mass which was the ordinary rite before the Second Vatican Council. But I remember the story a priest recounted to me one evening after a parish mission I gave. After Vatican II convened, some men entered a parish in his diocese in the middle of the night— with chainsaws . With the priest’s approval, they completely dismantled the high altar, removed the statues, crucifix, and stations of the cross, and placed a wooden table in the middle of the sanctuary to replace the altar. When the parishioners came for Mass the next day, many were shocked and devastated.
Your foes have made uproar in your house of prayer: they have set up their emblems, their foreign emblems, high above the entrance to the sanctuary. Their axes have battered the wood of its doors. They have struck together with hatchet and pickaxe. O God, they have set your sanctuary on fire: they have razed and profaned the place where you dwell. (Psalm 74:4-7)
That , he assured me, was
never
the intent of Vatican II. While the effects of modernism have varied from parish to parish, the greatest damage has been to the faith of believers. In many places, the sublime has been reduced to the ordinary. The mystical has been demystified. The sacred has been profaned. The truth has been distorted. The Gospel message reduced to status quo. The Cross replaced by art. The God of true love replaced by a "God" who doesn’t care if we are slaves to sin, just as long as we feel we are tolerated and liked. It is becoming clearer (as we see, for instance, how many Catholics voted in America for a pro-death candidate) that perhaps the majority of Catholics have been led to false pastures. Many do not even seem aware of it, having simply followed wolves in sheep’s clothing. It is precisely because of this that God is going to permit one last great evangelization in this era, to call back those sheep (layman and clergy) who perhaps even now do not realize that they are astray and caught in the brambles of deception.
Woe to the shepherds of Israel who have been pasturing themselves! You did not strengthen the weak nor heal the sick nor bind up the injured. You did not bring back the strayed nor seek the lost… So they were scattered for the lack of a shepherd, and became food for all the wild beasts. Therefore, shepherds, hear the word of the LORD:
I swear I am coming against these shepherds… I will save my sheep, that they may no longer be food for their mouths.
(Ezekiel 34:1-11)
We already see the first signs of this corrective work, begun in Pope John Paul II, and continued through his successor. In reinstating the ability to say the older rite without permission, and beginning to slowly reintroduce reverence and true devotion (such as Communion on the tongue, altar rails, and re-orientating the priest to face the altar, at least in the Pope’s own example as we saw this past Christmas) the terrible abuses which ensued after the Council are beginning to be repaired. It was never the intention of the Council Fathers to eradicate the mystical sense of the Mass. Because modern lay people may be used to these abuses does not make them any less destructive. In fact,
that is when they are most destructive .
My people are destroyed for lack of knowledge. (Hos 4:6)
With the Pope’s recent
motu proprio
(personal motion) to allow greater access to and freedom to say the Tridentine Liturgy in parishes, I believe the Holy Spirit has blown a remedial breeze from the Columns of the Eucharist to begin healing a gash in the Barque of Peter. Do not get me wrong: adding Latin back into the liturgy is not going to suddenly reverse the apostasy in the Church. But proclaiming Christ from the rooftops and drawing souls into a true encounter with Jesus will. But what are we evangelizing souls into? A prayer meeting? No… we must bring them to the Rock, to the fullness of truth which Jesus has revealed in the Catholic Church. How difficult this is when our liturgies—the great encounter with Jesus—at times appear to be anything but.
THE GASH OF CONFUSION
A second gash to the hull of the Mothership, once again deriving from erroneous interpretations of Vatican II which have led to a
false ecumenism
in certain quarters, is the confusion over the true identity of the Catholic Church. But again, a powerful breeze has issued forth from the Two Columns in the form of a brief document entitled
Responses To Some Questions Regarding Certain Aspects Of The Doctrine On The Church .
In order to clearly define the nature of the Catholic Church and the validity, or lack therof, of other Christian churches, the document signed by Pope Benedict, says:
Christ “established here on earth” only one Church and instituted it as a “visible and spiritual community”… This Church, constituted and organized in this world as a society, subsists in the Catholic Church, governed by the successor of Peter and the Bishops in communion with him”.
— Response to Second Question
The document clearly states that Christian churches which do not participate fully in this "visible and spiritual community," because they have broken from apostolic tradition, suffer from "defects." If a baby is born with a hole in its heart, we say the child has a "heart defect." If a church, for example, does not believe in the Real Presence of Jesus in the Eucharist—a belief which has been firmly held and taught from the first Apostles without dispute for the first thousand years of the Church—then that church rightly suffers a defect (indeed, a "heart defect" for refusing the reality of the Sacred Heart made present in the Holy Sacrifice of the Mass.)
The mainstream media has failed to report the very generous and conciliatory language of the document, which nonetheless recognizes the filial relationship of Catholics with non-Catholics who profess Jesus as Lord.
It follows that these separated churches and Communities, though we believe they suffer from defects, are deprived neither of significance nor importance in the mystery of salvation. In fact the Spirit of Christ has not refrained from using them as instruments of salvation, whose value derives from that fullness of grace and of truth which has been entrusted to the Catholic Church".
—Response to Third Question
While some hardly see the Vatican’s language as "healing," I submit, it is precisely in identifying the defective condition of the child which creates the opportunity for future "heart surgery." Many are the Catholics I know today, and perhaps to a degree I am one of them, who learned to love Jesus and the Holy Scriptures from the genuine passion and love of non-Catholics. As one person related, "These evangelical churches are often like incubators. They bring new born chicks into a relationship with Jesus." But as the chicks grow, they need the nutritious grain of the Holy Eucharist, indeed, all the spiritual food which Mother Hen Church has to feed them. I for one am deeply appreciative of the significant contributions made by our separated brethren in making the name of Jesus known among the nations.
Lastly, the Holy Father continues to proclaim in a spirit of love and courage the inate dignity of the human person, the sanctity of marriage and of life. For those who are listening, the spirit of confusion is fleeing. As we can see, however, few are listening as the
winds of change
begin to bring the sea to a
broil .
THE TWO PILLARS OF THE TWO COLUMNS
At the end of St. John Bosco’s dream, the Church does not experience the "great calm" on the sea, which is perhaps the foretold " Era of Peace ,"
until
she has been firmly anchored to the Two Columns of the Eucharist and Mary. While the dream likely spans the reign of several Popes, the end of the dream signals at least
two
prominent pontiffs:
Suddenly the Pope falls gravely wounded. Immediately, those who are with him run to help him and they lift him up. A second time the Pope is struck, he falls again and dies. A shout of victory and joy rings out amongst the enemies; from their ships an unspeakable mockery arises.
But hardly is the Pontiff dead than another takes his place. The pilots, having met together, have elected the Pope so promptly that the news of the death of the Pope coincides with the news of the election of the successor. The adversaries begin to lose courage.
— Forty Dreams of St. John Bosco , compiled and edited by Fr. J. Bacchiarello, S.D.B.
This is a remarkable description of what has occurred in our recent times:
1981 assassination attempt of Pope John Paul II.
Shortly after, there is a second attempt on his life, an assailant with a knife. Later, he is diagnosed with Parkinson’s disease which eventually consumes him
Many of his opponents were rejoicing, hoping that a more liberal Pope would be elected.
Pope Benedict XVI was elected very quickly compared to pontiffs in the past. His pontificate has no doubt caused many of the Church’s adversaries to lose courage, at least momentarily.
An "unspeakable mockery" toward Christ and His Church has arisen since John Paul II’s death, as writers, comedians, commentators, and politicians continue to speak the most astonishing blasphemies publicly, and without reserve. (See
Deluge of False Prophets .)
In the dream, the Pope who eventually dies…
…stands at the helm and all his energies are directed toward steering the
ship towards those two columns.
Pope John Paul II has decidedly directed the Church toward Mary through his own witness, devotion, and Apostolic teaching which strongly urged the Church to devote herself to Mary during the
Year of the Rosary
(2002-03). This was followed by the
Year of the Eucharist
(2004-05) and John Paul II’s documents on the Eucharist and the Liturgy. Before passing away, the Holy Father did everything possible to
direct the Church toward the Two Columns .
And now what do we see?
The new Pope, putting the enemy to rout and overcoming every obstacle, guides the ship right up to the two columns and comes to rest between them; he makes it fast with a light chain that hangs from the bow to an anchor of the column on which stands the Host; and with another light chain which hangs from the stern, he fastens it at the opposite end to another anchor hanging from the column on which stands the Immaculate Virgin.
I believe Pope Benedict has extended the first "light chain" to the Column of the Eucharist by linking
the present to the past
through his
motu proprio , as well as his other writings on the liturgy and recent book on Jesus. He is moving the Church closer to breathing with "both lungs" of the East and the West.
I believe it is very possible, then, that
Pope Benedict may also define a new Marian dogma—that second chain
which extends to the Column of the Immaculate Virgin. In St. John’s dream, at the base of the Column of the Virgin, is an inscription which reads
Auxilium Christianorum , "Help of Christians." The fifth Marian dogma that many expect to be proclaimed is that of Our Lady as "Co-Redemptrix,
Mediatrix, and Advocate of all Graces." (Read Blessed Mother Teresa’s simple and beautiful explanation of these titles
here .)
There is more to say on this at another time.
THE SWORD OF BENEDICT
Of course, many people, Catholics included, believe that Pope Benedict is creating division through these most recent Church documents (and would further divide Christendom with such a Marian dogma.) I can’t help but say, "Yes, exactly."
The battle on the sea is not over.
Do not think that I have come to bring peace on earth; I have not come to bring peace, but a sword. (Matt 10:34)
Ahab came to meet Elijah, and when he saw Elijah, said to him, "Is it you, you disturber of Israel?" "It is not I who disturb Israel," he answered, "but you and your family, by forsaking the commands of the Lord and following the Baals."
— Office of Readings , Monday, Vol III; p. 485; 1 Kings 18:17-18
Pope Benedict XVI on the bow of a ship, entering Cologne for World Youth Day, 2006
Pope Benedict entering Sydney, Australia for World Youth Day, 2008
FURTHER READING:
Understanding how Church teaching unfolds:
The Unfolding Splendor of Truth
The purification of the "churches":
That Which Is Built On Sand
Understanding the divisions of truth:
Mountains, Foothills, and Plains
The Holy Father, Chief Shepherd and light for the Church:
My Sheep Will Know My Voice in the Storm
The Da Vinci Code… Fulfilling a Prophecy?
Published in:
DAILY JOURNAL ,
SIGNS
|
on January 31st, 2009
|
Posted by
Deacon John Giglio Jr
at
3:27 PM
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share to Pinterest
Labels:
Blessed Virgin Mary ,
John Bosco ,
Pope Benedict XVI
[MaryVitamin] Feast Day of St. John Bosco
His Dream of the Church in Battle
Mary Vitamin for January
31st
Topic : Our Lady, St. John Bosco, and the seed which fell on good soil.
(January 31st)
Quote:
"It has been estimated that about twenty-five hundred of Don Bosco's boys had listened to the higher call that led up the aisle to the altar."
Neil Boyton S.J., The Blessed Friend of Youth  Don Bosco , 210.
Meditation:
"But the seed sown on rich soil is the one who hears the word and understands it, who indeed bears fruit and yields a hundred or sixty or thirtyfold."
Matthew 13:23
Why did St. John Bosco's life embody this parable?
"Mary was the topic of [St. John Bosco's] first public sermon; her name was the last word he spoke on earth. Nothing was too small to dedicate and confide to her; no enterprise was too great for him to undertake with her help. 'He who stands alone,' he was wont to say, 'does but little; but with Mary's help he will do much. In fact, anyone can do anything with the help of Mary, can obtain anything from her. She is omnipotent in grace and we ought to call upon her every moment."
Edna Phelan , Don Bosco A Spiritual Portrait , (Doubleday) 234.
Resolution:
Today, I will allow Our Lady to make over the soil in my soul
that I may become the good soil which receives the Word of
Christ. I will let her be the Plow, the Rake and the Gardener.
Marian Vow:
"His daily life became a living example of the virtues of Mary: purity and humility, amiability and charity, hatred of sin and zeal for souls, all dominated by an intense and glowing love of Christ. His associates and pupils had only to observe Don Bosco performing the many tasks which his work entailed to recognize in him a true man of God. Never sparing himself, never wasting a moment, gently correcting and encouraging, meeting reverses or good fortune with unruffled good humor, he referred everything with equal fervor to the 'Madonna who loves us so much."
Edna Phelan,
Don Bosco A Spiritual Portrait , 239.
I give this resolution to the Blessed Virgin Mary .
Thanks be to God for graces received .
Related sites:
Castle of the Immaculate  &
AirMaria
__._,_.___
Visit Your Group
__,_._,___
Posted by
Deacon John Giglio Jr
at
1:25 PM
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share to Pinterest
Friday, January 30, 2009
FROM MARK MALLETT:
The Luciferian Star
There will be fearful sights and great signs from heaven. (Luke 21:11)
IT
was about two years ago that I first noticed it. We were standing on a hill at a monastery when I looked up, and there in the sky was a very bright object. "It’s just an aircraft," a monk said to me. But twenty minutes later, it was still there. We all stood stunned, amazed at how bright it was.
Two years later, this object seems to be growing in brightness, and it has caught the attention of some astronomers. It is the planet Venus. It is usually brighter than other stars and planets. But there is something
extra-ordinary
about it now, and it’s become the buzz of many online forums. An 83 year old priest I know recently pointed it out to a few of his parishioners saying that he was watching it with interest. If someone who has been around that many years believes it to be unusual, perhaps there is something more than meets the eye.
Jesus tells us that there would come a time when the earth would reel and the cosmos respond when the Church was in
apostasy . That is, nature itself, on earth and in the heavens, would respond to the depth of mankind’s sins. Is Venus, perhaps, part of these visible cosmic signs?
A COSMIC HERALD
Because of it’s brightness, Venus has become known as either the "Evening Star" or the "Morning Star," as (depending upon where it is in orbit) it heralds either the
twilight,
or the
dawn.
"Morning star" is a term familiar in Scripture. In the Old Testament, the
Church
Fathers attribute this passage as referring to Satan:
How have you fallen from the heavens, O morning star, son of the dawn! How are you cut down to the ground, you who mowed down the natio ns! (Isaiah 14:11-12)
Jesus said:
I have observed Satan fall like lightning from the sky.(Luke 10:18)
Instead of "morning star," the Latin Vulgate uses the word "lucifer" which means "light-bearer." The point here is that Satan is a fallen angel who at one time reflected the beauty of the Creator. I say this because Jesus Himself also bears this title:
I am the root and offspring of David, the bright morning star. (Rev 22:16)
Last year, I heard in my heart the Lord say,
First the Evening Star rises, and then the Morning Star.
And recently,
The Luciferian Star rises…
Satan is being permitted to rise again, but this time, as a
false light.
He is rising against one who also bears the title of Morning Star—the one who replaced Lucifer’s glory in creation—the
Blessed Virgin Mary . The Church Fathers have also given her the title "Morning Star" for she is "the woman clothed with the sun" (Rev 12:1), perfectly reflecting the light of Christ. She is the one who will extinguish this false light with her heel (Gen 3:15). Satan is rising as the
Evening Star
to herald the Night— the time of Antichrist . Mary and her offspring, however, will rise as the
Morning Star
to herald the Dawn, the rising of the
Sun of Justice
and the dawning of the
Day of the Lord.
It is interesting to note that Venus’s orbit around the Sun, over an 8 year cycle as viewed from the earth, forms the pattern of a
pentagram ,
which, of course, is a satanic symbol.
THE FALSE PROPHET?
You may or may not have noticed the advertisement which came out in the
Wall Street Journal
and other publications around Christmas time. It spoke of one who is coming who is an answer to the world’s problems. His name is Lord Maitreya, known as the "new age" messiah. He is a character I believe we may need to take seriously since Scripture warns that there will be false prophets who not only claim to be Christ, but will produce
false signs and wonders . This is what the article said:
Look now for the biggest miracle of all. In the very near future a large, bright star will appear in the sky visible to all throughout the world—night and day. Unbelievable? Fantasy? No, a simple fact. Around a week later, Maitreya, the World Teacher for all humanity, will begin his open emergence and—though not yet using the name Maitreya—will be interviewed on a major US television program. Awaited by all faiths under different names, Maitreya is the Christ to Christians, the Imam Mahdi to Muslims, Krishna to Hindus, the Messiah to Jews, and Maitreya Buddha to Buddhists. He is the World Teacher for all, religious or not, an educator in the broadest sense. Maitreya’s message can be summarized as "share and save the world". He will seek to inspire humanity to see itself as one family, and to create world peace through sharing, economic justice and global cooperation. With Maitreya and his group working openly in the world, humanity is assured not only of survival but of the creation of a brilliant new civilization.
— MarketWatch , LOS ANGELES, Dec 12, 2008
Is the star they are speaking of the "Evening Star," Venus? It is worth noting that
Albert Pike, who wrote
Morals and Dogma , the ritualistic book for the Freemasons, often referred to how the Mason’s and/or Illuminati brotherhood planned their "events" around
the orbit of Venus . These are the organizations which are recognized as co-ordinating (as best as humanly possible) a New World Order. Is it coincidence, then, that as world leaders across the globe are
calling for a New World Order
in the midst of economic chaos, that Venus is getting extraordinarily brighter?
This is not to say that Maitreya is
the
Antichrist. However, we are entering a period now when we are going to see many more false prophets, if not
the
False Prophet of Revelation, come onto the scene. Jesus also warned that there will be others who will claim to be the Messiah :
False messiahs and false prophets will arise, and they will perform signs and wonders so great as to deceive, if that were possible, even the elect. (Matt 24:24)
THE GOD OF THE UNIVERSE
So, how is Venus becoming brighter? The most obvious answer is that the closer Venus is to earth, the brighter it is. Also, Venus enters phases like the moon, and is presently closer to being full than crescent. However, this still doesn’t explain why Venus seems to be brighter than anyone can remember it…
Consider that the powers that be are, through current astronomy, able to know and predict the behavior of most objects in our galaxy. It would be very easy to manipulate this knowledge to coincide with a terrestrial event. For instance, the article above states
that the " bright star will appear in the sky visible to all throughout the world— night and day ." O n March 25th this year (on the Feast of the Annunciation), an extraordinarily rare event occurs when Venus will be seen in the twilight
and
in the morning. It will be seen
both at night and at day.
Again, my point is that we need to be aware that there are coming some very powerful
false
"signs and wonders" which are going to deceive many. Whether it is Venus or other planetary objects or even a
comet , it is certain there are going
to be more
signs in the heavens .
But remember this: it is
God’s
universe. He is the Author of creation,
not
Satan. What happens in the universe is by God’s design, by His permission. Celestial events today were set in motion from the beginning of time. He is in complete control, though that control does permit the free will of men to reap what they have sown. This too He knew when He set the stars upon their course…
The very moment when the Magi, guided by the star, adored Christ the new king, astrology came to an end, because the stars were now moving in the orbit determined by Christ.
—POPE BENEDICT XVI, Encyclical Letter,
Spe Salvi, n. 5
TSUNAMI OF DECEPTION
There is a
tsunami of deception
coming. As I wrote in
The Coming Counterfeit
, I believe that after the Illumination (the
Sixth Seal of Revelation ), a False Prophet will paint this miracle of God’s mercy, not as a Divine encounter with Jesus, but an encounter with "the Christ within" (meaning we are all gods moving to a "higher plane of consciousness.") Interesting that within occult circles, Venus is known as " the great light of illumination." However, this is not the illumination of the Holy Spirit, but of the false light and Shining Darkness, Satan. The world is
ripe
for this deception.
In the very near future, people everywhere will have the opportunity to witness an extraordinary and significant sign, the like of which has been manifested only once before, at the birth of Jesus… t his mysterious event is a sign, and heralds the beginning of Maitreya’s open mission… How will viewers respond? They will not know His background or status. Will they listen to and consider His words? It is too soon to know exactly but the following may be said: never before will they have seen or heard Maitreya speak. Nor, while listening, will they have experienced His unique energy, heart to heart.
— www.voxy.co.nz , January 23rd, 2009
It is said that Maitreya will "telepathically" communicate to people who see him and that there will be many physical healings. Remember, however, that many sicknesses are demonic in origin, as the exorcists in the Church can attest to and the Gospel accounts reveal. It would be very easy for demons to simply "withdraw" creating the impression that people are healed, and that Maitreya
is the
Christ.
We don’t know really who this figure is. To draw any hard conclusions could distract us from other
real
deceptions. Perhaps Venus is simply another sign pointing to the need to be very vigilant, for events in the world are unfolding very quickly now. But standing by our side is the Blessed Mother,
the true Star , to guide all those who enter the Ark of her Immaculate Heart to safe harbor. I’m wondering if those who posted that article in the
Wall Street Journal
knew that it was printed on the same day as the Feast of Our Lady of Guadalupe:
Star
of the New Evangelization?
Yes… God’s always a step ahead. We just need to make sure we’re in step with Him.
Children, it is the last hour; and just as you heard that the antichrist was coming, so now many antichrists have appeared. Thus we know this is the last hour… Who is the liar? Whoever denies that Jesus is the Christ. Whoever denies the Father and the Son, this is the antichrist. (1 John 2:18, 22)
FURTHER READING:
Deluge of False Prophets
Deluge of False Prophets — Part II
Stars of Holiness
Signs from the Sky
Published in:
DAILY JOURNAL ,
THE GREAT TRIALS
|
on January 29th, 2009
|
Posted by
Deacon John Giglio Jr
at
5:49 PM
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share to Pinterest
TEACHINGS TO LIFT YOU UP "TV Has Much That Is Evil" by RITA RING Post
81, December 1, 1993
TV Has Much That Is Evil
December 1, 1993 4:45a.m.
Jesus speaks: My dear child, I love you very much. I know how hard it is to get out of bed. Your days are going by quickly. The nights are short.
This morning I would like to teach you about many things. Try in all you do to be holy. The world is pulling you so far away from me. You can no longer be of Me and not take a stand. Your life is so different from everyone else. It is an uphill battle to just remain in the world. They have surely lost their way. You have to deny all the TV shows. You have to stay away from the movies. You have to avoid the newspaper most of the time. All the connections with the world are detrimental to your health, the health of the soul. Whatever you take in through your eyes and ears, into your brain, becomes a part of you. If you watch TV what you take in is so vile it will cripple your soul. I know you enjoyed the movies, but there are none now to enjoy. They are full of sex and sin and violence. Watching such trash puts you in an occasion of sin.
Your life here is a battle. You can no longer be of Me and not take a stand. You must take a stand to protect yourself and your children. To not take a stand in this world leads you to sin. The world is sinning, right before your eyes on the TV and in movies, in the newspaper. And they boast of their sin. You are being persecuted because you are violated by the sins of the world. Oh, how they will persecute you for your faith! You know you are doing what you are supposed to because it is a hard road to travel.
Shame on the newspapers, TV and movies that lead my beautiful children to sin. There is so much sin on TV alone, not to mention the young people who watch it constantly and then go to the movies for recreation. This is recreation? This is sick! Little kids go to school and they do not even hear My name. They are thrown into a school where it is hard to remain because the other children have been taught such sin and nastiness from home and TV. That a well fed child, fed by God, is lost and hurting in school! He is a lonely soul because the whole class is very worldly.
Poor innocent little children! Then they are fed a daily dose of sin on the TV and in the movies. What a terrible set it is-a set to teach hatred, sin, sex, violence-every evil you can name. You can see it accepted in a five minute segment on TV. What garbage for your soul!
Oh, the poor little children. I cry for their little lives. Even if parents are good, they learn just from being with others. Why worry about your children's socialization? Who needs to socialize with those going to today's schools? At their age many are engaged in so many sins, sins of the flesh constantly-sins of hate, sins of violence, lack of care for their brothers. There is little love there. Everyone is macho and full of ego!
Watching such trash. Oh, I lament My little beautiful ones. Parents, be with those children. They have a worse struggle than you. They are young and innocent and are sent to school to be taught. They are taught, all right. Sick things! Send your little child to school to be schooled in such vileness? They learn so much from each other. Look at the indifference and hate for one another, getting their own way. It is all hurting their growth. Send your innocent to the slaughter in today's schools and then if you are a good parent, spend the rest of the night trying to unteach what they have learned.
Oh, little one, all I can say to you is pray, pray, pray. Make prayer the center of your life. You need to stay so close to Jesus. Then the world does not get to you. Spend so much time with Me and pray to the Holy Spirit. Pray every day for His guidance. He is so good to you.
I love you all with the tenderest and most loving heart. I am sorry for what you are shown on TV. Don't watch it or go to any movies that you think might not be okay. Find out first. Your children don't need the movies with the big screen, sinning before your very eyes. What a way to teach sin. The devil is running the movie reels. He is sitting in your TV, glaring at you in joy. This is indeed the time the devil has infiltrated so much of your world.
Pray, pray, pray for your brothers, for the souls that make movies and TV and then promote it. They will answer for all the sins it promotes.
Then could you question My asking you to speak? Others sin openly every second on TV. I need you to tell all of My love. Would you not do this for Me to combat this awful sin? The TV has gotten even bigger-yeah, to show the sin in such size! My heart aches at little ones watching filth while their parents work!
Your children are your prized treasures from Me. You must be on guard at every moment with them. Pray and play with your children. I am calling you to alter your busy lives and go back to the basics of being constantly with them. If they are left alone with a Nintendo they are taught to act out avenged violence. Their bodies are doing violent things. It isn't enough to see the TV, movies, etc. They have to perform violent acts on these games and are rewarded by winning the game for a game of good violence. How sick can you be!?
Parents, be with your children. You don't need the TV. You need to be with the children and they need to be with you. Throw the games out. They not only teach violence, but they even make you participate to win at violence. Acting out such vileness-how sick! Your little ones need you, my parents-not a little. They need you constantly to ward off such violence, sin and untruths being taught every minute.
I love you, you little ones. Pray for the world. My soul is so sad, so sad you do not know! Your prayers comfort My Sacred Heart and help your brothers. Pray, pray, pray, pray. I love you.
R. Jesus, Son of the Living God! http://www.sofc.org/
Posted by
Deacon John Giglio Jr
at
5:17 PM
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share to Pinterest
Fr. Tom Euteneuer: HLI Pilgrimage to Guadalupe: You Are Invited!
Spirit & Life ®
"The words I spoke to you are
spirit and life." (Jn 6:63) Human Life International
e-Newsletter Volume 04, Number 06 | Friday,
January 30, 2009
..................................................................................
HLI Pilgrimage to
Guadalupe
Dear Spirit and Life
readers, I take this opportunity to invite you to a marvelous
pro-life pilgrimage to the Shrine of Our Lady of Guadalupe in Mexico from
April 26th-30th! I myself have been on pilgrimage to this spiritual center
of the Americas more than 15 times and never pass up an opportunity to
visit this blessed place which showed so clearly the victory of life over
death. Those who join us on this pilgrimage will be immersed in the
Guadalupe event in the following ways:
Daily Mass and
prayer in the Basilica of Our Lady of Guadalupe.
Study of the
religious and pro-life significance of the world-famous tilma of Juan
Diego on which Mary left the imprint of Her image.
Visit to the 16th
century Metropolitan Cathedral and the tomb of Bishop Juan Zumárraga who
was the first to see the tilma and authorize the evangelization of the
Aztec Indian people.
Prayer with HLI
Mexico before an abortion center in Mexico City to stand in solidarity
with the pro-life movement and the  babies there.
Visit to the tomb
of Blessed Miguel Pro, Mexican priest and
martyr. For further information or to register for the pilgrimage please
send an email to Anne at the following address: guadalupepilgrimage@gmail.com
Space is limited so
sign up today and join us for the pro-life experience of a
lifetime! Sincerely,
Rev. Thomas J.
Euteneuer, President, Human Life International
SL Links
About the
Author
SL
Archives
Donate
Tell Us About
Yourself
SL Action Items
Click here to register
for this
pilgrimage.
Copyright 2009 - Human
Life International Permission granted for unlimited use. Credit
required.
Human
Life International 4 Family Life Lane -- Front Royal, VA 22630
U.S.A. Phone: (540) 635-7884 Fax: (540) 622-6247 E-mail:
hli@hli.org
Website:
www.hli.org
Posted by
Deacon John Giglio Jr
at
4:09 PM
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share to Pinterest
[MaryVitamin] St. John Bosco & The Blessed Virgin Mary
Mary Vitamin for January 30 th
Topic: St. John Bosco & The Blessed Virgin Mary (Jan 31)
Quote:
St. John Bosco:
"Don't be alarmed; the Madonna will see to the payments for her church. I am just the instrument – the cashier."
Edna Phelan,
Don Bosco A Spiritual Portrait ,  242.
Meditation:
When Don Bosco began the building of his church (now Basilica) dedicated to Our Lady, Help of Christians, he didn't have enough money to begin such a project, let alone complete it. Moreover, the land was poor and he had all the concerns of the Oratory upon him. However, he believed he was fulfilling Our Lady's request. Convinced of Her maternal care and Her all powerful intercession before God, he began the prodigious work of building.
Resolution:
Today I want to practice devotion to the Blessed Virgin Mary in the manner of St. John Bosco. He trusted  Her with his financial concerns and he trusted Her with spiritual concerns. I will hide no concern of mine from Her today. I will speak to Her about all my troubles and believe She hears me and will take them to Her Son.
Marian Vow:
After St. Dominic Savio's death, he appeared to Don Bosco saying,
"The most consoling thing for me at the hour of death was the thought that I was a devotee of Our Lady! Tell this to your boys and recommend with insistence devotion to Our Lady."
I give this resolution to the Blessed Virgin Mary.
Thanks be to God for graces received.
Related sites:
Castle of the Immaculate  &
AirMaria
__._,_.___
Visit Your Group
__,_._,___
Posted by
Deacon John Giglio Jr
at
11:27 AM
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share to Pinterest
SCRIPTURE COMMENTARY #474 And when the hour was come, he sat down: and the twelve apostles with him. And he said to them:
"With desire I have desired to eat this pasch with you, before I suffer."
(Luke 22:14-15) THE LAST PASCH: Jesus had a great desire to eat "this," last typical Pasch, with His disciples. When He had eaten this Paschal lamb with them, the Old Covenant was closed, and the
New Covenant
of grace began; for immediately after the Paschal feast our Lord instituted the Holy Eucharist, in which the true
Lamb of God
is offered up, and given to the faithful to be the Food of their souls. The loving Heart of Jesus longed to institute the New Covenant of grace, to offer Himself up in the Sacrament of His
Body and Blood
for our salvation, and to give Himself to us for the nourishment of our souls. Therefore He said: "With desire I have desired to eat this Pasch with you."
[From 'A Practical Commentary on Holy Scripture' by Bishop Knecht, D.D.]
(1899 Douay-Rheims
Bible )
Posted by
Deacon John Giglio Jr
at
12:01 AM
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share to Pinterest
Labels:
Religion and Spirituality
Thursday, January 29, 2009
TEACHINGS TO LIFT YOU UP "Play and Pray with Your Children" by RITA
RING Post 80, November 30, 1993
Play and Pray with Your Children
November 30, 1993
Jesus speaks: You must listen to Me and do My will. When I speak, I do so for a reason. You are My little ones and I comfort and wait for you.
Remember Satan is there to trip you up and leave you out to dry. Like a thief in the night he comes and is there.
Come to Me and wait with Me. You must learn to let go of it all for love of Me. Alleluia, Alleluia. Praise the Lord. Come and follow Me, little ones, for My burden is light and My honor great indeed!
I am the Omega. I am all you need. You come in your trials and in your joy. I love you when you are troubled. I do not love you today and then abandon you when you need Me. I know you are weak and you fall. You want to do My will and others pull you away from your children. Learn from this. Place your cares in My hands. You must have time alone, every day, with your children, praying and playing. This comes after adoration. It is a time of refueling and reflecting My love to them. Nothing is as good for your children but your time alone with them. It does so much for a child to have a parent pray and play with them.
Others in the world can find someone else. I gave you these children and they come first. Children need to be valued. They are so precious to Me. When you are spending time with your family, it pleases Me so. If you spend too much time with others and none with your family alone, it divides you. Listen to this teaching. Satan wants to divide you and knows this time is a powerhouse for getting along and loving, so he plants distraction and puts people in your way. Time alone at home, being together, playing and praying together-this is a must to a happy, united family! Tell others you are busy doing My work. This is My work for you. It is My job for you. If you had to teach, you would be there for every class. Your job for Me is being with your children. Other things don't matter. This is your work and you must show up for your job or you are not coming when I call you to work. I am the boss. I want this private time alone with My little ones every day. This is your work. This is the power behind the family. It must be united and strong to withstand the sickness of this world. Your son is gone six hours a day. He needs this rebuilding. Your daughter needs to be with you. Time with you is most important to her.
I am Jesus, Son of the Living God. I dwell in your heart. Your job is to be with Me first, then be with your children. They are children. Other adults can find other ways to get their needs met. They can come to Me and read these letters. I have spoken. Your job is as a mother. Mary is the model for all mothers. Look at the closeness between her and her Son-very close. This is My model for you. Stay tuned in and present always for them. This is your job, your time and prayer alone with them.
Satan wants division. Beware of his cunning ways. The wolf comes in sheep's clothing. Beware, he comes as a thief in the night. You are fine and then, in one second, chaos. That is Satan. He is not nice. He wants your soul and he wants your hearts. He wants to make you cold and unattached. He uses whatever or whomever to divide you: people, phones, TV. He can use a prayer meeting to divide you if you would have been better off being alone at home together. When you are together, talk about Me. Your daughter has much to say and so does your son. The biggest gift you can give a child is the importance of Me to them. I am what is most valuable in their life. If I am so valuable, I should be the topic of conversation. Your son was thinking of Jesus carrying a tree. This is beautiful. Your daughter has many messages. She should share them with you both. Read every message I give you, every day, to your children. This is your job for Me. Treat it as a job you get paid for. You get paid by Me and that is the most valuable pay!
I love the family. I want it strong. I love My children. They are precious to Me. All are heirs to My kingdom, but it is only won through prayer and sacrifice and knowledge of Me. You must share My life and the lives of the saints with your children. I am Jesus, I will heal your hurts and send you out to play. Play this day. Teach My message of love. Satan has weakened your front and now he is attacking you. Security comes in a strong family. Fortify your walls with prayer and playing together. Have time for your children. My time is not your time. I loan it to you to do My work. My work is being with your kids.
Be attentive to My commands for you. This is My will! Do as I say. You want to do My will. Then do it! Don't ask, and I tell you, then do what you want. Oh, such willfulness in My people! I tell you, "Pray with Me. Be with Me." Then you are too busy. But you say, "I want to do the will of God." My will for My people is to turn back to God. Make Him first in your life. Spend time with Me, alone. Then you are doing My will and all else will work out.
Oh, beloved of My Father, I do love thee. Listen and harken to My commands: Mass, Communion, adoration and your family. Pray together. This is My wish for you.
Alleluia. God has spoken and you must harken to the call. It is His call to make ready your hearts for the coming Christmas is the coming of Christ to your hearts. Your children come first. Presents and business are not of God. They are commercial and divide you. Parties are not fun when the little ones are left out or thrown in front of a TV or sitter. Children are God's gifts to this earth. Recognize all the value they are to you and to Me.
R. Alleluia. Praise the Lord. I accept the crosses You send me because You alone know that which I need.
http://www.sofc.org/
Posted by
Deacon John Giglio Jr
at
1:05 PM
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share to Pinterest
SCRIPTURE COMMENTARY #473 And on the first day of the Azymes, the disciples came to
Jesus , saying: "Where wilt thou that we prepare for thee to eat the pasch?" But Jesus said:
"Go ye into the city to a certain man and say to him: 'The master saith, My time is near at hand. With thee I make the pasch with my disciples.' "
And the disciples did as Jesus appointed to them: and they prepared the pasch.
(Matt. 26: 17-19) OMNISCIENCE OF OUR LORD: He knew beforehand that Peter and John would meet a man in the city, carrying a pitcher of water, who would go straight into the house where Jesus had arranged to eat the Pasch. He also saw into the heart of Judas, and knew that he was mediating His betrayal. [From 'A Practical Commentary on Holy Scripture' by Bishop Knecht, D.D.]
(1899 Douay-Rheims
Bible )
Posted by
Deacon John Giglio Jr
at
12:01 AM
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share to Pinterest
Labels:
Jesus ,
Judas Iscariot ,
Religion and Spirituality ,
Saint Peter
Wednesday, January 28, 2009
TEACHINGS TO LIFT YOU UP "I Control Your Hot Air Balloon" by RITA
RING Post 79, November 29, 1993
I Control Your Hot Air Balloon
November 29, 1993 - 4:30a.m.
Jesus speaks: Come unto Me all who are weary and I will give you rest. You come and I wait for you to be alone with Me. In these precious moments, I talk to you. Do you know how truly special these moments are?
I, God, talk to you and you wait for the teaching I want to give. I may not give you any or I may give you some great gift of wisdom. This is how I want your life to be: controlled by Me. You wait and know I will take care of you. I know just what you need. You must come, though, or you miss it all. You could have slept and missed My whole teaching. You come in silence in the night.
I love the quiet hours during the night. I love you to come when you could choose to sleep. This delights My Sacred Heart when you come from your sleep and you spend time with Me. You do not suffer from this sleep loss. I make you energized and you never miss it at all.
People do not realize that I do not need to give in to your body. I do not have to obey natural laws. I make people hear what I want them to hear. They may not even know what they are saying and what people are hearing. You, little flower, do not have to do it. I do it for you. I use you to do My work if you are willing. Why would I subject Myself to what you say? I can do all things. I can talk for you. I can have others hear what I want them to. I do not have to depend on these laws on earth. I am God! I can put a person on your path and you wonder how he was there at that particular moment. All the minutes and seconds in a day, and your paths just cross. No, My child, it was My miracle. It was My doing. I watch you like a doting mother and I want your lives to work for My greater good. Oh, you say, it just happened. That is not so. I was behind the scenes.
You think you are in control. Ha, ha! You don't control anything. Look at the weather. Did you control this cold? No, that is out of your control, but other things are in your control. I give you a free will. You control your will. Beyond that, you do not know the miracles I make happen in your life.
I am always working behind the scenes. I do not abandon you ever. I watch you as a doting mother. Your children I guard. If more parents knew how I guarded their little ones, they would be constantly on their knees in front of Me!
I have all the power. You have experienced My power over and over again. Little coincidences, you say. No, I am afraid not. It was Me at work!
If you want to know Me. You must seek out all the times I was especially present and something just happened and put these occurrences on a list in the front of your head. You need My special glimpses of heaven memorized. You, My child, have quite a list to make. Do not tarry. Do this for yourself. Today. Begin it in this notebook and the Holy Spirit will help you remember (l) special times when others just appeared or things just happened and (2) supernatural experiences in your life when you got a special glimpse of heaven from Me (including a dream, smelling incense, roses, seeing images, Mary, Me, the Holy Spirit). You need dates. I am very conscious of dates. Special occasions. I want you to know My presence. I want to be alive to you. I want you to see the miracles I provide for you.
If you make this list, your doubts will definitely diminish. Include the births of your children and how it all worked so perfectly. Include Me in your life. I am here. I am making things happen. Look for one in everything that happens. I am truly here in your life at every minute. I do not leave your side. I am present while you sleep, watching and waiting for you. It is now 5:00a.m. See how I am here.
Make your list today. This will enhance your relationship with Me. This will make Me really alive in your undertakings. The minute something miraculous occurs, write it down. You smell incense-write it down. This will really make Me alive to you. Even if you don't remember everything, don't miss one opportunity from here on. I am right by your side, little one. I want to be alive in your life. You need to write these things down.
I love you so much. I truly do. I wait and watch you in the night and all day lest your foot stumbles and falls. Quit thinking you are in control. All you control is your will and what I really want is total surrender. I want to run you, totally, out of love and trust in Me. I want you to become selfless and let Me possess your soul. Then your life will fly, like the hot air balloon. You are free. You are unattached. You sail the skies and you do not meet any resistance from the earth. You are above the earth. It has no power over you. You are powered by the fire of My love. You remain high and upward. I am at the helm. You only trust in Me. I watch the wind and the weather. I look out for you. You are My little babies in a hot air balloon.
Oh, babies, I want to baby you. Let go of your silly wills. This is what separates us. Let it go, I tell you. Spend all your days focused on Me. Make yourself My empty vessel. I use you and you comply. I am God, child! Do you think you are smarter than God? Then let go, you silly. I know all things and I have all the power. I can make it rain or sunshine. I can plant the right person on your way. I can make you perform phenomenal feats. Why do you want to hold on to your ways? I am God. Can you operate like God? How silly! I am able to do all things in an instant.
Give it up. Turn it over. Let Me be in you and you have a winner every time. Whatever I send you is out of the greatest love. Your trials have been your greatest teachings! Would you give your beautiful child a snake when he asks you for your help? How much more would I, Who am God, give to you, My beautiful ones.
Oh, oh, oh, I love you so, little one. You don't have any idea how deep! Come and let Me show you My love for you. This is the only way to go. I am the way, the truth and the life. He who abides in Me will have the light of life. Alleluia, Alleluia, Alleluia. http://www.sofc.org/
Posted by
Deacon John Giglio Jr
at
4:49 PM
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share to Pinterest
Newer Posts
Older Posts
Home
Subscribe to:
Posts (Atom)
Google+ Followers
Please donate to keep this blog operating. God Bless+
Thank You!
THANKS TO ALL WHO DONATED! YOU WILL ALWAYS BE IN MY DAILY PRAYERS!
Marianne suffered a heart attack on March 13th, 2012. On 7/23/2013,
she suffered a stroke and hospitalized for over 3 weeks. On
8/9/2013, Marianne went to the Lord. Deacon John
Friend Connect
Quotes from 'The Glories of Mary':
‘I will put enmities between thee and the woman, and thy seed and her seed: she shall crush thy head.’
(Gen. 3:15) “Since the devil is the head of original sin, this head it was that Mary crushed: for sin never had any entry into the soul of this Blessed Virgin, which was consequently free from all stain.” Saint Augustine
Me and my Family
www. flick r .com
This is a Flickr badge showing public photos and videos from
deaconjohn1987 . Make your own badge
here .
New Releases From Amazon
http://www.amazon.com/gp/new-releases/books/22/ref=zg_bsnr_nav_b_1_b
CHRISTIAN BOOKS & BIBLES
BUY YOUR CATHOLIC BOOKS HERE AND HELP SUPPORT THIS BLOG
CATHOLIC BOOKS
CATHOLIC BOOKS
Buy your Catholic books and gifts here
AMAZON ECHO
IN STOCK ON JULY 14, 2015
AMAZON BIRTHDAY GIFT CARDS
GIFT CARDS FOR ALL OCCASIONS
Analytics
BOB & PENNY LORD MINISTRIES
Journeys of Faith
Special of the week:
Visions of Heaven, Hell and Purgatory
Heaven is real beyond your wildest dreams.
It is eternity with Our Lord Jesus
in the Beatific Vision, our Mother Mary, the Heavenly family of Angels and Saints.
Bob and Penny Lord have gone to Europe and researched the lives of many Saints and Blesseds, the teachings of the Catholic Catechism and the Catholic Encyclopedia.
They have amassed volumes of first-hand information from the visions of Saints
Regular Retail $14.95 320 pages Your price today $7.95
Follow by Email
Catholic Prayers and Resources for a Closer Relationship with God
Twitter
FamilyCatechism.com
Learn the Catholic Faith here:
Lijit Search
Lijit Search
Total Pageviews
Popular Posts
Who's in charge when a Pope leaves his post?. [Video]
romereports has uploaded
Who's in charge when a Pope leaves his post?
by rom...
Here's your chance to take the Pew Forum’s quiz on religious knowledge
Test yourself
Late last month, a survey of religious knowledge published by the Pew Forum on Religion & Public Life made headlines ac...
AMAZING PICTURE OF POPE JOHN PAUL II EMBRACED BY MOTHER MARY
I received this from my friend Mary Murphy and wanted to share it with you. It doesn't matter whether the story or picture is true, but...
Madonna’s Blasphemous Logo
via sm.tfp.org
Outrageous! Our Lady’s Miraculous Medal Symbol Used As A Logo For Selling Madonna’s Perfume
Send Your Instant E-PROTE...
OCTOBER 13, OUR LADY OF FATIMA MIRACLE
Ave Maria! Today is the 92th Anniversary of the Miracle of the Sun at Fatima.
From  Ave Maria Meditations by JosephMary
Our Lady of Fatim...
Chapel's Hidden Treasure on the Hudson | Register Exclusives
On the main route parallel to the Hudson River in Esopus, N.Y., a wro...
Vailankanni, Our Lady of Health: Story & Video
Video: http://www.h2onews.org/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=22445013&catid=155&Itemid=14
...
The image of Our Lady of Mount Carmel Missionary on Easter Island
AMERICA/CHILE-The image of Our Lady of Mount Carmel Missionary on Easter Island Santiago, Chile (Agenzia Fides) - The missionary image o...
A Short Reflection on the Nativity of the Blessed Virgin Mary
The Nativity of Our Lady
by Andrea di Bartolo
THE NATIVITY OF THE BLESSED VIRGIN MARY
"For she is more beautiful than the su...
Oct. 8th: Feast Day of Our Lady of Good Remedy:
Our Lady of Good Remedy
800 years ago Christians were being captured by the Moslems and sold into slavery by the thousands, and nobody ...
Facebook Badge
Deacon John Giglio Create Your Badge
RELIGIOUS HEADLINES
Ratings by outbrain
RELIGIOUS PRODUCTS
MARY, OUR MOTHER
Mother Mary said at Fatima: "My Immaculate Heart will be your refuge and the sure way which will lead you to God." With that in mind, I will try to post each day something about Our Blessed Lady, items about the Holy Roman Catholic Church, and public domain Catholic books too! I pray you enjoy my ministry! Below is a slide show of pictures that I have collected:
Tears of Mary! Have a look!
TEARS OF MARY
Loading...
Jeremiah 14:17; 15:18
"Let my eyes shed down tears night and day, and let them not cease,
because the Virgin daughter of my people is afflicted with an exceedingly grievous evil. / Why is my sorrow become perpetual, and my wound desperate so as to refuse to
be healed?"
Ubi Petrus, ibi ecclesia, et ubi ecclesia vita eterna
Where Peter is, there is the Church, where the Church is there is Eternal Life
Apparition Video"s
Loading...
FAVORITE WEB SITES AND BLOGS
BROTHERS & SISTERS OF PENANCE OF ST. FRANCIS
Fr. Zuhlsdorf's Blog (Rome) o{]:-)
GARABANDAL VIDEO SITE
IMMACULATA ROSARIES
IN GOD'S COMPANY 2!
MARIAN MOVEMENT OF PRIESTS
My Pro-Life Blog
MY WEB SITE
New Medjugorje Site
Planet Catholic: Your Window into the Catholic World
Spiritual News
St. Conleth's Catholic Heritage Assoc.
About Me
Deacon John Giglio Jr
I'm 78, formally married to Marianne for 52 years, [Marianne passed away to the Lord on August 9th, 2013 after suffering a stroke and two cardiac arrests.] We have 4 children (plus 2 in heaven-stillborn) and nine grandchildren plus 1 Step-grandchild. I'm a  Korean War Vet, U.S. Navy; I was a Motorcycle News Courier for U.P.I., and WNEW Chanel 5 TV News, during 60's & 70's; a  Lieutenant in the  Wycoff Hospital Police in the 90's.  I was ordained a Permanent Deacon for the Brooklyn Diocese on April 25, 1987 and served in four parishes before relocating to Florida in 2002. I'm still incardinated for Brooklyn Diocese. There was no parish in my town so we traveled to either Mt. Dora or Eustis for Mass. My oldest son and daughter, John and Anne, lived near us but the rest of the gang are up North in New York and Pennsylvania. We have now relocated to a northern state and my ministry is mostly on the Internet with some blogs and groups. I also assist the pastor at the local Catholic church. I owe my life and conversion/calling to Our Lady of Mt. Carmel de Garabandal, who has brought me to her Son Jesus. I am Their servant and slave! I only want to do the Will of God and glorify the Most Blessed Trinity with my life!
View my complete profile
Catholic News Ticker
Search Catholic Blogs
WHO LINKS TO ME?
Join "Friends of Garabandal" Group
Friends of Garabandal
Visit this group
Take a small step towards
Christian Unity .
Sign the Petition to Celebrate the Feast of Easter all in one date.
Blog Archive
►
2015
(616)
►
October
(50)
►
September
(49)
►
August
(51)
►
July
(70)
►
June
(84)
►
May
(88)
►
April
(88)
►
March
(47)
►
February
(49)
►
January
(40)
►
2014
(748)
►
December
(63)
►
November
(52)
►
October
(64)
►
September
(67)
►
August
(68)
►
July
(57)
►
June
(72)
►
May
(59)
►
April
(70)
►
March
(68)
►
February
(55)
►
January
(53)
►
2013
(1065)
►
December
(58)
►
November
(54)
►
October
(82)
►
September
(51)
►
August
(87)
►
July
(67)
►
June
(65)
►
May
(103)
►
April
(90)
►
March
(162)
►
February
(138)
►
January
(108)
►
2012
(1411)
►
December
(104)
►
November
(77)
►
October
(99)
►
September
(128)
►
August
(127)
►
July
(114)
►
June
(121)
►
May
(112)
►
April
(135)
►
March
(115)
►
February
(139)
►
January
(140)
►
2011
(2298)
►
December
(174)
►
November
(174)
►
October
(193)
►
September
(210)
►
August
(169)
►
July
(118)
►
June
(196)
►
May
(238)
►
April
(225)
►
March
(247)
►
February
(168)
►
January
(186)
►
2010
(2047)
►
December
(260)
►
November
(221)
►
October
(252)
►
September
(200)
►
August
(133)
►
July
(144)
►
June
(157)
►
May
(171)
►
April
(137)
►
March
(132)
►
February
(112)
►
January
(128)
▼
2009
(1507)
►
December
(157)
►
November
(130)
►
October
(132)
►
September
(131)
►
August
(122)
►
July
(130)
►
June
(147)
►
May
(130)
►
April
(109)
►
March
(133)
►
February
(92)
▼
January
(94)
The Mother of the Word
FROM MARK MALLETT:
Pope Benedict and the Two Colum...
[MaryVitamin] Feast Day of St. John Bosco
FROM MARK MALLETT: The Luciferian Star
There...
TEACHINGS TO LIFT YOU UP "TV Has Much That Is Evil...
Fr. Tom Euteneuer: HLI Pilgrimage to Guadalupe: Yo...
[MaryVitamin] St. John Bosco & The Blessed Virgin ...
SCRIPTURE COMMENTARY #474
And when the hour was ...
TEACHINGS TO LIFT YOU UP "Play and Pray with Your ...
SCRIPTURE COMMENTARY #473
And on the first day o...
TEACHINGS TO LIFT YOU UP "I Control Your Hot Air B...
SCRIPTURE COMMENTARY #472
"Then shall the king s...
TEACHINGS TO LIFT YOU UP "You Are Special" by RITA...
SCRIPTURE COMMENTARY #471
"Then shall the king s...
TEACHINGS TO LIFT YOU UP by RITA RING Post 77, Nov...
SCRIPTURE COMMENTARY #470
"Then shall the king s...
Children of Medjugorje Message of January 25, 2009...
Homily for the Conversion of Saint Paul - 01-25-09...
SCRIPTURE COMMENTARY #469
"Then shall the king s...
"Devotion to My Mother Will Advance a Family to Me...
SCRIPTURE COMMENTARY #468
"Then shall the king s...
Powerful Meditation from Mark Mallett:
Twilight o...
[MaryVitamin] Hill of Calvary
Tribulation Times - http://www.tribtimes.com
SCRIPTURE COMMENTARY #467
"Then shall the king s...
SCRIPTURE COMMENTARY #466
"Then shall the king s...
TEACHINGS TO LIFT YOU UP by RITA RING Post 76, Nov...
Viktor Vasnetsov. The last judgment. 1904.
Oil on ...
TEACHINGS TO LIFT YOU UP by RITA RING Post 75, Nov...
SCRIPTURE COMMENTARY #464
"And when the Son of ...
TEACHINGS TO LIFT YOU UP by RITA RING Post 74, Nov...
FROM MARK MALLETT:
The Prophecy at Rome
IT w...
SCRIPTURE COMMENTARY #463
"And when the Son of m...
False Rumors About Apparitions
SCRIPTURE COMMENTARY #462
"For even as a man g...
[MaryVitamin] Pontmain
TEACHINGS TO LIFT YOU UP by RITA RING Post 73, Nov...
FROM MARK MALLETT:
The Great Storm
We ca...
SCRIPTURE COMMENTARY #461
"But he that had receiv...
TEACHINGS TO LIFT YOU UP by RITA RING Post 72, Nov...
Children of Medjugorje January Newsletter
FROM MARK MALLETT:
The Day of Difference!
...
SCRIPTURE COMMENTARY #460
"For even as a man goin...
TEACHINGS TO LIFT YOU UP by RITA RING Post 71, Nov...
Mariette Beco
...
Image via Wikipedia
Walking with Mary
VATICAN - A...
SCRIPTURE COMMENTARY #459
As they were hearing t...
TEACHINGS TO LIFT YOU UP by RITA RING Post 70, Nov...
Tribulation Times - http://www.tribtimes.com
[MaryVitamin] Our Lady of Banneux
Mark Mallett —Spiritual Food For Thought—
The...
SCRIPTURE COMMENTARY #458
"Then shall the kingdo...
TEACHINGS TO LIFT YOU UP by RITA RING Post 69, Nov...
Image by Raymond Brown via Flickr
The following i...
FROM THE VATICAN:
SCRIPTURE COMMENTARY #457
"Then shall the king...
FROM MARK MALLETT:
Voluntary Dispossession
...
Regimes change, but Vietnamese devotion to Mary re...
TEACHINGS TO LIFT YOU UP by RITA RING Post 68, Nov...
SCRIPTURE COMMENTARY #456
"Then shall the king...
Cover of Faith"My Children of This World Must
Lear...
SCRIPTURE COMMENTARY #455
"Then shall the king...
TEACHINGS TO LIFT YOU UP by RITA RING Post 67, Nov...
The Marian way
SCRIPTURE COMMENTARY #454
"Then shall the king...
TEACHINGS TO LIFT YOU UP by RITA RING Post 66, Nov...
SCRIPTURE COMMENTARY #453
"Then shall they deliv...
TEACHINGS TO LIFT YOU UP by RITA RING Post 65, Nov...
A Spiritual Revolution to Bring in Check and Man...
FROM MARK MALLETT:
The Great Hope
PRAYER is ...
SCRIPTURE COMMENTARY #452
And Jesus being come o...
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
MEDIA ADVISORY
...
Media Alert! - Fr. Euteneuer Celebrates Mass on EW...
TEACHINGS TO LIFT YOU UP by RITA RING Post 64, Nov...
[MaryVitamin] Jeremiah
SCRIPTURE COMMENTARY #451
And Jesus being come o...
TEACHINGS TO LIFT YOU UP by RITA RING Post 63, Nov...
EPIPHANY
[MaryVitamin] Judith
SCRIPTURE COMMENTARY #450
And Jesus being come o...
TEACHINGS TO LIFT YOU UP by RITA RING Post 62, Nov...
[MaryVitamin] Rebecca
FROM MARK MALLETT:
The Great Unfolding
...
Monthly message as given to Anne, a lay apostle.
[MaryVitamin] the star of the Magi
SCRIPTURE COMMENTARY #448
And Jesus being come ou...
TEACHINGS TO LIFT YOU UP by RITA RING Post 61, Nov...
[MaryVitamin] Holy Name
SCRIPTURE COMMENTARY #447
And Jesus being come ou...
Our Lady Queen of Peace of Medjugorje's January...
TEACHINGS TO LIFT YOU UP by RITA RING Post 60, Nov...
SCRIPTURE COMMENTARY #446
And Jesus being come ou...
[MaryVitamin] The Holy Mother of God
Wishing everyone a Blessed and holy New Year 2009...
►
2008
(1077)
►
December
(120)
►
November
(88)
►
October
(106)
►
September
(112)
►
August
(66)
►
July
(79)
►
June
(78)
►
May
(89)
►
April
(94)
►
March
(82)
►
February
(80)
►
January
(83)
►
2007
(872)
►
December
(95)
►
November
(82)
►
October
(83)
►
September
(87)
►
August
(91)
►
July
(110)
►
June
(77)
►
May
(71)
►
April
(57)
►
March
(53)
►
February
(34)
►
January
(32)
►
2006
(434)
►
December
(46)
►
November
(35)
►
October
(33)
►
September
(24)
►
August
(42)
►
July
(35)
►
June
(43)
►
May
(41)
►
April
(42)
►
March
(42)
►
February
(37)
►
January
(14)
►
2005
(154)
►
December
(15)
►
November
(35)
►
October
(39)
►
September
(43)
►
August
(22)
My Friend Archbishop David Milne
Requiescant in Pace+ 1/23/08
PSALM 71 SPEAKS TO
MY HEART
Forsake Me Not When My Strength Is Spent
In you, O
Lord , do I take refuge;
let me never be put to shame! In your righteousness deliver me and rescue me;
incline your ear to me, and save me! Be to me a rock of refuge, to which I may continually come; you have given the command to save me, for you are my rock and my fortress.
Rescue me, O my God, from the hand of the wicked, from the grasp of the unjust and cruel man. For you, O Lord, are my hope, my trust, O
Lord , from my youth. Upon you I have leaned from before my birth; you are he who took me from my mother's womb. My praise is continually of you.
I have been as a portent to many, but you are my strong refuge. My mouth is filled with your praise, and with your glory all the day. Do not cast me off in the time of old age; forsake me not when my strength is spent.
For my enemies speak concerning me; those who watch for my life consult together
and say, “God has forsaken him; pursue and seize him, for there is none to deliver him.”
O God, be not far from me; O my God, make haste to help me! May my accusers be put to shame and consumed; with scorn and disgrace may they be covered who seek my hurt.
But I will hope continually and will praise you yet more and more. My mouth will tell of your righteous acts, of your deeds of salvation all the day, for their number is past my knowledge.
With the mighty deeds of the Lord
God
I will come; I will remind them of your righteousness, yours alone.
O God, from my youth you have taught me, and I still proclaim your wondrous deeds.
So even to old age and gray hairs, O God, do not forsake me, until I proclaim your might to another generation, your power to all those to come. Your righteousness, O God, reaches the high heavens. You who have done great things, O God, who is like you?
You who have made me see many troubles and calamities will revive me again; from the depths of the earth you will bring me up again. You will increase my greatness and comfort me again.
I will also praise you with the harp for your faithfulness, O my God; I will sing praises to you with the lyre, O Holy One of Israel. My lips will shout for joy, when I sing praises to you; my soul also, which you have redeemed.
And my tongue will talk of your righteous help all the day long,
for they have been put to shame and disappointed
who sought to do me hurt.
Welcome to my Marian Blog
As you can tell from my postings, I'm in love with Mother Mary, who has taken me under her mantle of protection, has taught and led me to Her Divine Son, Jesus; Who in turn has led me, in the Holy Spirit, to the Eternal Father!
Two prayers that I say often tell who I am: Come O Holy Spirit; Come by means of the powerful intercession of the Immaculate Heart of Mary, Your well-beloved Spouse. O
Most Holy Trinity, I adore Thee. My God, my God, I love Thee in the Most Blessed Sacrament.
ALL MY SOCIAL SITES & BLOGS
PRO-LIFE RING
The Pro-life Ring Powered By Ringsurf
Picture Window template. Powered by
Blogger .