It Happened in Norway December 2009, Creation, Spirals, Chanukah, Virgin Mary
It Happened in Norway
President Obama picks up his Nobel Peace Prize
BBC - December 10, 2009
And if ALL should fail and creation begins again ... in Norway we find the
Svalbard Global Seed Vault
Svalbard Global Seed Vault
Google Videos
Check "60 Minutes" -- Very Cool (Cold)
HAARP Current Facilities :
There is one near Tromsř, Norway.
HAARP Norway Swirl
Google Video
Norway's Sky Spirals
Mystery Spiral Appears Over Norway
Google Videos
2009 Norwegian Spiral Anomaly
Wikipedia
The Norwegian spiral anomaly of 2009 was a phenomenon that appeared in the night sky over Norway on December 9, 2009, caused by the failed flight of a Russian RSM-56 Bulava missile. The spiral consisted of a blue beam of light with a grayish spiral emanating from one end of it. The light could be seen in all of Trondelag to the south and all across the three northern counties which comprise Northern Norway, and it lasted for 2-3 minutes. According to sources, it looked like a blue light coming from behind a mountain, stopping in mid-air, and starting to spiral outwards.
What's cool about this photo is the metaphoric significance of consciousness spiraling back into the blue frequency, into the center of the Milky Way Galaxy.
The fact that so many people were hoping it was a UFO, shows that many are expecting a significant event in the not too distant future. Disclosure or not, people are ready.
Norway
has many storms as did much of the U.S. this week.
The 'storms of change' are many - from the sandstorms in the hourglass of time to the winter storms that touch the northern hemisphere, to storms in and beyond space and time, as a new decade begins.
It is all generated by the grids that create realities now calling souls back to the creation from which it a'rose' through the eye of the storm or a
black hole.
We exist in the
event horizon , soon to return through the eye.
The expression "A Storm is Coming" was spoken by William Bell (Leonard Nimoy) in the
Fringe
episode "Momentum Deferred". "The Storm" is William Bell's theory that as two parallel dimensions collide, only one will remain in existence.
When black holes collide, all will be obliterated.
As is Above So is Below -
The Emerald Tablets of Thoth
Suzaku catches retreat of a black hole's disk
PhysOrg - December 10, 2009
Creation, Consciousness, Source of Light, Spirals through the Eye
Below into the horns and cones of time - Humanity now returning.
Closest Look Yet at Milky Way's Black Hole
Live Science - September 3, 2008
Consciousness sprang forth through the
spirals
and flames of the Goddesses of Creation.
And so we shall return, recounting our experiences along the way.
Happy Chanukah
Chanukah began Friday December 11, 2009 at sundown as people light the first candle on the
menorah
- a favorite for children who understand the significance of the moment. Each night, for 8 nights, they receive a small token gift and really look forward to that as well.
My family and I observe this joyous holiday together and with friends.
Chanukah
celebrates the rededication of the Temple after the successful Jewish revolt against the Seleucid monarchy. The Jews found only enough ritually pure olive oil to light the menorah for one day, but the supply miraculously lasted eight days. In celebration of this miracle, the chanukkiyah has eight branches for eight candles or oil lamps, none higher than any other, except for one higher branch for the auxiliary candle, or shamash, which guards against secular use of the other lights and is also used to light the other candles each night.
The Sacred Flame
Since the beginning of time, the flame, or sacred flame, has had special significance linked to the light of creation, the essence of the soul or spirit, and God however you perceive this energy.
The flame has always been connected to spirituality, a ritual centerpiece symbol for many religions.
The 4 symbols of Zoroaster, or Z, are the flame, crown, lion and wings.
The sacred flame was used to symbolize god in
Zoroastrianism .
The flame symbolized purification through ritual sacrifices found in the Old Testament, Spanish Inquisition, among others. Rebirth takes us to the
Phoenix
- She who rises from the ashes to recreate.
There are many other historical and mythological references to the flame as sacred. Some say that your soulmate (soul aspect above) is your
Twin Flame
who waits for you in the light of creation, reuniting when the program ends.
Our Lady of Guadalupe
Saturday 12/12, many people will celebrate the
Feast Day of Our Lady of Guadalupe
most often described as a manifestation of the
Virgin Mary
another icon of the feminine energies that goes back to the original archetype named differently in each culture.
The origin of the name, and story behind Our Lady of Guadalupe, remain a mystery. According to one report, the Virgin Mary appeared as an apparition in 1531. Others argue that in 1533 a church was dedicated to the Spanish Our Lady of Guadalupe, with the American version of a Marion apparition developing later.
Others have suggested the name is a corruption of a Nahuatl name
Coatlaxopeuh , which has been translated as "Who Crushes the Serpent". In this metaphoric interpretation, the serpent (human DNA) referred to is
Quetzalcoatl , an Aztec God, whom Mother Mary crushed by inspiring the conversion of the natives to Catholicism.
The date 12/12, will be 12/12/12 on December 12, 2012 which takes us close to the end time date of the Mayan calendar. Somewhere there is a correlation.
Stories about the Virgin Mary take some souls on a journey to the Rose Bloodline, moving from the Middle East to France and western European iconology that came full circle in the Americas.
Encoded within the celestial landscape, art, sculpture, music, land, and culture of the people, is the end time code for all things that emerge in consciousness today.
Happy Holidays Whatever You Celebrate ... and Even if You Don't.
ELLIE'S ARCHIVES 2009
ELLIE'S ARCHIVES
ELLIE'S WORLD BLOG
ALPHABETICAL INDEX OF ALL FILES
CRYSTALINKS HOME PAGE
PSYCHIC READING WITH ELLIE