von Wien mit Liebe: The Week in Review
von Wien mit Liebe
Blog Archive
▼
2007
(53)
►
06/17 - 06/24
(1)
►
06/03 - 06/10
(1)
►
05/06 - 05/13
(6)
►
04/29 - 05/06
(6)
►
04/22 - 04/29
(1)
►
03/25 - 04/01
(2)
►
03/18 - 03/25
(2)
▼
03/11 - 03/18
(3)
Silver-white Winters that Melt into Spring...
The Week in Review
The Hills are Alive...With Our Voices Singing "The...
►
03/04 - 03/11
(1)
►
02/25 - 03/04
(2)
►
02/18 - 02/25
(2)
►
02/11 - 02/18
(3)
►
02/04 - 02/11
(1)
►
01/28 - 02/04
(6)
►
01/21 - 01/28
(3)
►
01/14 - 01/21
(12)
►
01/07 - 01/14
(1)
►
2006
(1)
►
12/24 - 12/31
(1)
About Me
Amanda
Well, I'm going to Austria to study abroad for a semester, and pretty much this whole blog thing is supposed to take the place of a journal.
Hopefully, I'll manage to add links to pictures that I'll be taking so you all can see where I've been.
I can't promise any sort of regularity with regards to posting, but I'll try my best.
Anyway, auf wiedersehen ... I'll see you all sometime after I get back.
Love and kisses,
Amanda
View my complete profile
Monday, March 12, 2007
The Week in Review
Alright, so as I promised, I'm going to do another "quick" post of how life on this side of the pond was last week.
And let me tell you, it was a whirlwind of a week. Monday, March 5, 2007 Karl came to visit today!
He's doing a study abroad spring break through Wilkes, which means (at least as far as I understand it) that they cart him through Europe for about a week and a half, he writes a paper, and then they give him three credits for it.
Not a bad deal.
By the time they got to Vienna, he'd already been to Budapest, and they still had to hit up Prague and Munich.
Now it was kind of weird seeing someone from home here, just because I got used to the idea of being completely cut off from that world.
I mean, I've been here for over two months now, and I'm kind of used to not seeing anybody.
That and when two worlds collide like that, its just an odd feeling. But it was really cool that he was here.
I just wish that we would have gotten to spend more time together because between my classes and his tour stuff, we probably only managed to get in about two or three hours.
So I met Karl by the Opera and took him and his friends to IES to show them a little bit of the Palais Corbelli.
From there we walked up to Stephensdom and climbed up the tower.
I want to say it was 343 stairs or something like that, curving around the inside of this relatively narrow tower.
Like I said, I'm starting to get a thing for heights.
Once we were up there, the view was pretty good.
I think I've had better views of Vienna, but I'm not sure from where.
Probably the mountain we were on during the tour when we first got to Vienna after orientation.
But it was cool just to say that I climbed to the top of Stephensdom.
And I got to play tour guide and point out all the buildings.
At one point Karl said that they must be really pushing this history and culture at us, but I'm just dorky enough to do something, then look up all the details on Wikipedia or something.
And you honestly pick up a lot just living here. History and whatnot of Stephensdom: St. Stephen's Cathedral was first built as a parish church of the
Diocese of Passau
in
1147
and rebuilt and enlarged over the centuries, with major new work concluding in
1511 , although repair and restoration have continued from the beginning to the present day.
It was previously thought that the church had been built in an open field outside the city walls; but excavations for a long-awaited heating system during
2000
revealed graves that were
carbon-dated
to the fourth century, 8
feet
(2.5
meters ) below the surface. The 430 skeletons were then moved to the catacombs. Thousands of others must have been buried in the ancient cemetery of this neighbourhood, starting in Roman times; and this, instead of the
Ruprechtskirche , may be the oldest church site in Vienna.
The first recorded church here was founded in
1137 , by Duke
Leopold IV
in a contract with Reginmar,
Bishop of Passau . The church was dedicated to
St. Stephen , the patron of the bishop's cathedral in Passau, and is oriented toward the sunrise on his
feast day
( 26 December ) in the year its construction began. The first
church building
was built in the
Romanesque
style starting in
1137
and
consecrated
ten years later. It was extended westward from
1230
to
1245 . The present west wall and Roman towers date from
1237 .
After a great fire in the city in
1258 , a larger replacement structure, also
Romanesque
and reusing the Roman towers, was consecrated, on
23 April
1263 , an anniversary highlighted each year by a rare ringing of the
Pummerin
bell for three minutes in the evening.
In
1304 , Emperor
Albert I
ordered construction of a
Gothic
three-naved choir, further east of the church and wide enough to meet the tips of the old
transepts . Work continued under his son Duke
Albert II ; this latest work was consecrated in
1340 , on the 77th anniversary of the previous consecration. The motif of the north nave furnishings was
St. Mary ; the middle nave was for St. Stephen and All the
Saints ; and the
Apostles
were honoured in the south nave. This part of the present cathedral, east of the present stubby
transepts , is called the Albertine Choir.
In
1359 , Albert II's son Duke
Rudolf IV , who is called "the founder", laid, in the vicinity of the present south tower, the cornerstone for a Gothic extension of Albert's choir westward, to encapsulate the existing second church. That old church was then removed from the embrace of the new one in
1430
as work around it progressed.
In
1433
the south tower was finished. Vaulting of the
nave
began in
1446
and the nave was completed in
1474 . In
1450
the foundation was laid for the north tower, but work on it was abandoned in
1511 .
Although it was merely a parish church, in
1365
Rudolf IV presumptuously established a
chapter
of
canons
here, such as a
cathedral
would have. It was a long-held desire of Vienna, with its rising importance, to become its own
diocese . Despite long-standing resistance by the bishops of Passau who did not want to lose control of the area, in
1469
Emperor
Frederick III, Holy Roman Emperor
prevailed upon
Pope Paul II
to grant Vienna its own
bishop
(appointed then and thereafter by the emperor) and so the
Stephansdom
became a cathedral. (During the reign of Emperor
Karl VI , the
see
was elevated to an archbishopric in
1722
by
Pope Innocent XIII .)
St. Stephen's Cathedral was saved from intentional destruction at the hands of retreating
German forces
during
World War II , when Captain
Gerhard Klinkicht
disregarded orders from the city commandant,
Sepp Dietrich , to "fire a hundred shells and leave it in just debris and ashes."
One of the fires set by civilian plunderers of nearby shops when
Russian
troops entered the city was carried by the wind to the cathedral, severely damaging it on
12 April
1945
as the roof collapsed. Fortunately, protective brick shells had been built around the pulpit, Frederick III's tomb, and other treasures, so that damage to the most valuable artworks was minimized. Unfortunately, the beautifully carved
Rollinger choir stalls
from
1487
were burned. Rebuilding began immediately, with a limited reopening on
12 December
1948
and a full reopening on
23 April
1952 .
St. Stephen's Cathedral's massive south tower
(at location
ST
on the Plan below)
is the dominant feature of the Vienna skyline at 136 meters (445 feet) and is affectionately called
Steffl
(a
German diminutive
form of Stephen) by the Viennese. It served as the main observation and command post for the defence of the walled city during the
Siege of Vienna
in
1529
and again during the
second siege
in
1683 . It is as much the most recognised symbol of Vienna as the
Eiffel Tower
is of
Paris . Its construction took 65 years to complete, from
1368
to
1433 , and it contains an apartment for the watchmen who, for centuries (ending in 1955), manned the tower during the night to ring its bells if they spotted a fire.
The tip of the tower
has the double eagle imperial emblem with the
Habsburg-Lorraine
coat of arms on its chest, surmounted by the double-armed
apostolic cross
symbolic of the emperors' style
Apostolic Majesty
as kings of Hungary.
The north tower
(at location
NT ) , planned as a twin to the south tower, has not been completed and is only half as tall, at 68 meters (223 feet). It was given a temporary cap that the Viennese call the "water tower top" when its construction paused in
1511 . Construction has not yet resumed.
On the left and on the right from the main entrance (called the Giant's Door
(Riesentor)
from the bone of a
mastodon
that once hung over it) are the two Roman towers
(at locations
RT
on the Plan below)
which are about 65 meters (215 feet) tall. They are called "Roman" ( heidnischen
in old Viennese dialect) because they were built from rubble of structures built by the Romans during their occupation of the city site. Square at their bases, and octagonal when they rise above the roof, these
Heidentürme
housed bells, and although the south Roman tower lost its bells during World War II, the north one is still a working bell tower. Along with the Giant's Door, they are the oldest parts of the church. The
tympanum
above the entrance depicts
Christ Pantocrator , flanked by two winged angels.
A glory of St. Stephen's Cathedral is its ornately patterned, richly coloured
roof , 110 meters (361 feet) long, and covered by 230,000 glazed
tiles . Above the
choir
on the south side of the building the tiles form a
mosaic
of the double-headed eagle that is symbolic of the
empire
ruled from Vienna by the
Habsburg
dynasty. On the north side the
coats of arms
of the
City of Vienna
and of the
Republic of Austria
are depicted. In
1945 , fire caused by
World War II
damage to nearby buildings leapt to the north tower of the cathedral and went on to destroy the wooden framework of the roof. Replicating the original bracing for so large a roof (it rises 38 meters above the top of the walls) would have required an entire
square kilometre
of
forest , so over 600
metric tons
of
steel bracing
were used instead. The roof is so steep that it is sufficiently cleaned by the rain alone and is never covered by
snow .
St. Stephen's Cathedral has 23
bells .
The largest is officially named for
St. Mary , but usually called
Pummerin
("Boomer") and hangs in the north tower. At 20,130
kilograms
(44,380
pounds ), it is the largest in Austria and the second largest swinging bell in Europe (after the 23,500-kilogram (51,800-pound)
Peter
in
Cologne Cathedral ).
Originally cast
in
1711
from cannons captured from the
Muslim
invaders, it was recast (partly from its original metal) in
1951
after crashing onto the floor when
its wooden cradle
burned during the
1945
fire. The
new bell
has a diameter of 3.14
metres
(9.6
feet)
and was a gift from the province of
Upper Austria . It sounds on only a few special occasions each year, including the arrival of the new year. There are three other bells hanging in this tower, but they are older and no longer used.
A peal of eleven
electrically operated
bells, cast in
1960 , hangs in the soaring south tower. Replacements for other ancient bells also lost in the
1945
fire, they are used during Masses at the cathedral: four are used for an ordinary Mass; the quantity increases to as many as ten for a major holiday Mass; and the eleventh and largest is added when the
Cardinal
Archbishop of Vienna
himself is present. From the largest to the smallest, they are named the
St. Stephen
(5,700 kg);
St. Leopold
(2,300 kg);
St. Christopher
(1,350 kg);
St. Leonhard
(950 kg);
St. Josef
(700 kg);
St. Peter Canisius
(400 kg);
St. Pius X
(280 kg);
All Saints
(200 kg);
St. Clement Maria Hofbauer
(120 kg);
St. Michael
(60 kg); and
St. Tarsicius
(35 kg). Also in this tallest tower are the
Primglocke
(recast in
1772 ) and the
Uhrschälle
(cast in
1449 ), which mark the passing of the hours.
The north Roman tower contains six bells, five of which were cast in
1772 , that ring for evening prayers and toll for funerals. They are working bells of the cathedral and their names usually recall their original uses:
Feuerin
("fire alarm" but now used as a call to evening prayers) cast in
1859 ;
Kantnerin
(calling the cantors (musicians) to Mass);
Feringerin
(used for High Mass on Sundays);
Bieringerin
("beer ringer" for last call at taverns);
Poor Souls
(the funeral bell); and
Churpötsch
(donated by the local
curia
in honor of the Maria Pötsch icon in the cathedral).
The
1945
fire destroyed the bells that hung in the south Roman tower.
It is said that the composer
Ludwig van Beethoven
discovered the totality of his
deafness
when he saw birds flying out of the bell tower as a result of the bells' tolling but couldn't hear the bells.
Along the outside walls of the cathedral can be seen
the spot
(near location
SJC
on the Plan below)
where the body of
Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart
was blessed after his funeral inside. the outdoor pulpit
(at location
SJC )
where
St. John Capistrano
preached a crusade in
1454
to hold back Muslim invasions of
Christian
Europe . The 18th century
Baroque
statue shows
St. Francis
under an extravagant sunburst, trampling on a beaten Turk. This was the original cathedral's main pulpit till it was replaced by Pilgram's pulpit. a figure
(at location
CT )
affectionately known to the Viennese as "Christ with a toothache," from the agonized expression of his face. various other memorials, from the time the area outside the cathedral was a cemetery. a recently-restored 15th century
sundial , on a
flying buttress
at the southwest corner
(location
S ).
There are 18
altars
in the main part of the church, and more in the various
chapels . The High Altar and the Wiener Neustädt Altar are the most famous. High Altar [HA] The first focal point of any visitor is the distant High Altar, built over seven years from
1641
to
1647
as part of the first refurbishment of the cathedral in the
baroque
style. The altar was built by the
Tobias Pock
at the direction of Vienna's Bishop
Philipp Friedrich Graf Breuner
with marble from
Poland ,
Styria
and
Tyrol .
The altarpiece shows the stoning of
St. Stephen , this church's patron. It is framed by figures of the patron saints of the surrounding areas — Saints Leopold, Florian, Sebastian and Rochus — and surmounted with a statute of
St. Mary
which draws the beholder's eye to a glimpse of heaven where Christ waits for Stephen (the first
martyr ) to ascend from below.
Wiener Neustädter Altar [WNA]
This altar at the head of the north nave was made in
1447
on the orders of Emperor
Frederick III , whose tomb is opposite it, at the head of the south nave. On the
predella
is his famous
A.E.I.O.U.
device.
Frederick ordered it for the
Cistercian
Viktring Abbey
(near
Klagenfurt ) where it remained until the abbey was closed in
1786
as part of Emperor
Joseph II 's
anti-clerical
reforms. It was then sent to the Cistercian monastery of
St. Bernard of Clairvaux
(founded by Emperor Frederick III) in the city of
Wiener Neustadt , and finally sold in
1885
to St. Stephen's Cathedral when the Wiener Neustadt monastery was closed after merging with
Heiligenkreuz Abbey .
A project to restore the altar was begun on the 100th anniversary, in
1985 , and, primarily because of the large surface area (100 square meters) involved, took 20 years, 10 art restorers, 40,000 man-hours, and €1.3 million to complete.
The
altarpiece
is composed of two
triptychs , the upper being four times taller than the lower one. When the lower panels are opened, the gothic grate of the former
reliquary
depot above the altar is revealed.
On weekdays, the four panels are closed and display a drab painted scene involving 72 saints. On Sundays, the
panels are opened
showing
gilded
wooden figures depicting events in the life of the
Virgin Mary .
The Wiener Neustädter Altar
Maria Pocs Icon [MP]
This
Byzantine style
icon
of
St. Mary
with the child
Jesus
was originally in the
Uniate church
in the Hungarian town of Pócs (pronounced
Poach ), from which this Marian icon takes its name. After two
miraculous
incidents in
1696
of the mother in the picture shedding real tears, Emperor
Leopold I , king of Hungary, ordered it brought to St. Stephen's Cathedral, where it would safe from the French-supported Muslim armies that still controlled much of Hungary. Upon its arrival after a triumphal 5-month journey in
1697 , Empress
Eleonora Magdalena
commissioned the splendid
Rosa Mystica
oklad and framework (now one of several) for it, and the Emperor personally ordered the icon placed near the High Altar in the front of the church, where it stood prominently from
1697
until
1945 . Since then, it has been in a different framework, above an altar under a medieval stone
baldachin
near the southwest corner of the
nave
— where the many burning candles indicate the extent of its
veneration , especially by Hungarians.
The 20 by 28-inch icon was commissioned in
1676
from painter
Istvan Papp
by
Laszlo Csigri
upon his release as a
prisoner of war
from the
Turks
who were invading
Hungary
at the time. Perhaps Csigri was unable to pay the 6- ducat
fee, because the icon was bought by
Laszlo Hurta
who donated it to the church in Pócs.
The picture shows the mother pointing to the child (signifying
he is the way ), and the child holds a three-stemmed rose (symbolizing the
holy trinity ) and wears a prescient cross from his neck.
Since its arrival the picture has not been seen to weep again (perhaps because it enjoys the
Gemütlichkeit
of Vienna) but other miracles and answered prayers have been attributed to it, including
Prince Eugene of Savoy 's victory over the Turks at
Zenta
a few weeks after the icon's installation in the Stephandom.
The residents of Pócs wanted their holy miracle-working painting returned, but the emperor sent them a copy instead. Since then,
the copy
has been reported to weep real tears and work miracles, so the village changed its name from merely
Pócs
to
Máriapócs
and has become an important pilgrimage site.
Pötscher Madonna
Pulpit [P]
A masterwork of late
gothic
sculpture
is the stone
pulpit . Long attributed to
Anton Pilgram , today
Niclaes Gerhaert van Leyden
is thought more likely to be the carver. So that the local language
sermon
could be better heard by the worshipers in the days before microphones and loud speakers,
the pulpit stands
against a
pillar
out in the
nave , instead of in the
chancel
at the front of the church.
The sides of the pulpit erupt like stylized petals from the stem supporting it. On those
gothic
petals are
relief
portraits of the four original
Doctors of the Church
(St.
Augustine of Hippo , St.
Ambrose , St.
Gregory the Great
and St.
Jerome ), each of them in one of four different temperaments and in one of four different stages of life.
The
handrail of the stairway
curving its way around the pillar from ground level to the pulpit has fantastic decorations of
toads
and
lizards
biting each other, symbolizing the fight of good against evil. At the top of the stairs, a stone
puppy
protects the preacher from intruders.
Beneath the stairs is one of the most beloved symbols of the cathedral: a stone self-portrait of the unknown sculptor gawking
(Ger. "gucken")
out of a window
(Ger. "fenster")
and thus famously known as the
Fenstergucker .
The pulpit
The Fenstergucker.
Note the
chisel
in the subject's hand, and the
stonemason 's signature
mark
on the shield above the window, leading to speculation that this a self-portrait of the sculptor.
Chapels
There are several formal chapels in St. Stephen's.
St. Katherine's
Chapel , in the base of the south tower, is the baptismal chapel. The 14-sided baptismal font was completed in
1481 , and its cover was formerly the sound board above the famed pulpit in the main church. Its marble base shows the four Evangelists, while the niches of the basin feature the twelve apostles, Christ and St. Stephan. St. Barbara's
Chapel , in the base of the north tower, is used for meditation and prayer. St. Eligius's
Chapel , in the southeast corner, is open for prayer. St. Bartholomew's
Chapel , above St. Eligius' Chapel, has recently been restored. The Chapel of the Cross
[PES]
, in the northeast corner, contains the burial place of
Prince Eugene of Savoy . It is not open to the public. St. Valentine's
Chapel , above the Chapel of the Cross, is the current depository of the hundreds of
relics
belonging to the Stephansdom, including a piece of the tablecloth from the
Last Supper . A
large chest holds the bones of St. Valentine. They were moved here about a century ago, from what is now the Chapter House to the south of the High Altar.
St. Katherine's chapel
Tombs Ground Floor In the cathedral may be seen the tombs of
Frederick III, Holy Roman Emperor , ( 21 September
1415
-
19 August
1493 )
[Fr3]
under whose reign Vienna obtained its own
bishop . His motto " A.E.I.O.U. " became synonymous with Austria. Constructed over a span of 45 years, starting 25 years before the emperor's death, this impressive
sarcophagus
is made of the unusually dense red
marble
found at the
Adnet
quarry. Carved by
Niclaes Gerhaert van Leyden , the
tomb lid
shows Emperor Frederick in his
coronation
regalia
surrounded by the
coats of arms
of all of his dominions. The body of the tomb has 240 statues and is a glory of medieval sculptural art. It is prominent in the Aposles' Choir in the southeast corner of the cathedral. Prince Eugene of Savoy , ( 16 October
1663
–
24 April
1736 )
[PES]
commander of the Imperial forces during the
War of the Spanish Succession , and others to repel Muslim invasions. His vault is in the large chapel named for him, in the northwest corner of the cathedral. That chapel has several other names, among them
Chapel of The Cross
and the beard on the crucified Christ above the altar is of real hair.
Tomb of emperor Frederick III
Catacombs When the
charnel house
and eight cemeteries against St. Stephen's Cathedral's side and back walls were closed due to an outbreak of
bubonic plague
in
1735 , the bones within them were moved to the
catacombs
below the church. Burials directly in the catacombs occurred until
1783 , when a new law forbade most burials within the city. The remains of over 11,000 persons are in the catacombs (which may be toured). Preservation and repair of the fabric of the medieval cathedral has been a continuous process at St. Stephen's Cathedral since its original construction in
1147 .
The porous
limestone
is subject to weathering, but coating it with a sealer like silicone would simply trap moisture inside the stone and cause it to crack faster when the water freezes. The permanent
Dombauhütte
(Construction Department) uses the latest scientific techniques (including
laser
cleaning of delicate features on stonework), and is investigating a process that would impregnate the cavities within the stone with something that would keep water from having a place to infiltrate.
The most visible current repair project is a multi-year renovation of the tall south tower, for which scaffolding has been installed. Fees from advertising on the netting around the scaffolding were defraying some of the costs of the work, but the concept of such advertising was controversial and has been discontinued.
Systematic cleaning of the interior is gradually proceeding around the walls, and an outdoor
relief
of Christ in
Gethsemane
is being restored.
Recently completed is a giant project for which visitors and worshipers in St. Stephen's Cathedral had been waiting since
1147 : better heating of the church during the winter. Previous systems, including fireplaces, just deposited soot and grease on the artwork, but the new system uses apparatus in many different locations so that there is little moving airflow to carry damaging particles. The church is now heated to around 10° C. (50° F.).
Some of the architectural drawings date from the middle ages and are on paper 15 feet long and too fragile to handle. Laser measurements of the ancient cathedral have now been made so that a digital 3-dimensional virtual model of the cathedral now exists in its computers, and detailed modern plans can be output at will. When weathered stonework needs to be repaired or replaced, the computerized system can create life-sized models to guide the nine full-time stonemasons on staff in the on-site workshops against the north wall of the cathedral.
Plan of St. Stephen's Cathedral , with features mentioned in this article marked with
red
letters.
CT
"Christ with a Toothache" sculpture;
Fr3
Tomb of Emperor
Frederick III ;
G
Giant's Door
HA
High Altar;
MP
Maria Pötsch icon;
NT
North Tower;
P
Pulpit;
PES
Prince Eugene of Savoy
burial chapel;
RT
Roman Towers;
S
Sundial;
SJC
Saint John of Capistrano pulpit;
ST
South Tower;
WNA
Wiener Neustädter Altar
And just for fun, I found a cute story about the weathercock that I took a picture of when we were in the tower.
Since olden times there has been a weathercock on the back roof of the cathedral. It is said to serve as protection from the devil, who can carry out his evil deeds only until the cock's first crow. The following legend is associated with the weathercock on Saint Stephen's Cathedral:
Young Knight Kaspar von Schlezer was to carry a secret message to the Sultan in Constantinople.
Sadly he took leave from his beautiful young wife, who -- at their last farewell -- placed a silver crucifix around her beloved husband's neck to protect him from danger. He then set forth on the long and difficult route to Turkey. After a long journey Herr von Schlezer arrived safely at the Sultan's residence and delivered the secret parchment. Then he set forth toward home.
The knight's ship was attacked by pirates. They fettered him and at the next port sold him to a rich sheik. For many years the prisoner had to do difficult labor as a slave. Only the silver crucifix that he kept hidden on his breast comforted him and gave him hope that he would one day regain his freedom.
In his homeland his wife mourned for her missing husband for five years, but finally she gave up hope of ever seeing him again and became engaged to her husband's friend. Even as she was making preparations for the wedding her husband had a strange dream:
His wife was standing before the altar in Saint Stephen's Cathedral in Vienna and was exchanging wedding vows with Knight von Merkenstein.
A soft voice whispered in the sleeping man's ear: "You still have time to prevent this marriage."
Bathed in sweat, the knight awoke. In desperation he cried aloud: "I must be in Vienna tomorrow, even if the devil takes me!"
Instantly the Evil One, astride a feathered mount, appeared and spoke: "This rooster will carry us to Vienna, but in return I must have your soul!"
Herr von Schlezer agreed, but only under the condition that if he could sleep through the entire flight, the Prince of Hell would have no power over his soul.
The devil and the knight climbed onto the rooster's back and took off through the air. Before putting himself into the Evil One's hands, the nobleman secretly took hold of the crucifix on his breast. Then he committed his soul into God's hands and fell fast asleep. With uncanny speed they crossed meadows and fields, seas and lakes.
As dawn approached, the Steffl [Saint Stephen's Cathedral] came into view. Filled with joy, the rooster let out a loud cock-a-doodle-doo, upon which Schlezer awoke. The devil had lost power over his victim. Cursing loudly, he cast the knight and the rooster into the Danube River. Then the Evil One, mad as a rabid fox, returned to Hell.
Two fishermen pulled the pair from the water. Thus the nobleman was able to prevent the marriage of his wife to Knight von Merkenstein. Filled with joy, they fell into one another's arms.
To thank the rooster, who had freed him from slavery and returned him to Vienna in time, the knight had an iron weathercock constructed and installed on the back roof ridge of Saint Stephen's Cathedral. It can be seen there even today, where it reminds us of a devil's ride in the middle ages.
After we walked through the Cathedral, which we didn't tour because that costs money, Karl and I went for some gelato while the others fended for themselves.
The guy at the gelato place winked at me, but he still hasn't given me a break on what I buy.
I guess I have to smile more.
Then we went over toward the Albertina because the Volksgarten is in that area of the city and we still had some time to kill.
And lo and behold, they were giving out free beer!
The Ottakringer factory, which is housed in my district, has apparently developed a new "flavor" of beer called "Blech," which means something along the lines of industrial and which would explain the design of the can.
Since I pretty much refuse to drink beer (I swear it all tastes like Natty), I took a can and put it in my pocket to bring home for my roommates.
Karl had to go back to his meeting place then, and I had to get home to do some work for classes the next day, but we made plans to get together for a bit on Tuesday.
Tuesday, March 6, 2007
Another wonderful day of classes, and I managed to meet Karl for a few minutes while they were eating lunch.
We even took a picture, which is something I usually forget to do.
I got involved with talking to Karl and his friends, and forgot to check my watch, so I was a bit late for class, which wouldn't have been a big deal, but we had the director and two of the actors from "Woyzeck" coming in to talk to us about the play.
It was an interesting talk, and we got out of class early, so I think it was a pretty positive thing.
I also got to play with Dimple, who is Sue's dog.
Sue is the registrar of IES Vienna.
And Dimple is adorable.
Not as adorable as Cheers, but she's about the same size, so I like to play with her.
I can't remember anything special occuring on either Wednesday or Thursday, except that I scheduled for my classes for next fall.
And I've pretty much decided that I need to visit each and every advisor I have when I get back to the States.
But I don't need to worry about that for at least another couple of months.
Friday, March 9, 2007
Friday was a very exciting day.
I decided to get a bit more sleep, so after German, I needed to come home and do the shower thing before I had my Skype date with Matt.
Since I was making him get up at 7:30 so I could talk to him, the least I could do was look good.
Normally, this wouldn't even be a problem, except that Rosa, our cleaning lady, comes on Fridays and we're pretty much banned from the apartment when she's here.
Since I've never met Rosa, I had this horrible image of her as a grumpy old lady that liked to yell at people that got in her way when she was cleaning.
And because I had this image of her, I waited at IES until about 11:00 because she's usually done about 11:30 and it takes about half an hour to get home.
When I got back to the apartment, it was so nice and clean.
Again, I wouldn't even comment on this, but living with
six other people tends to make an apartment messy at best.
It's just the way of the world (if I remember correctly, Doc described it as endothermic energy, but don't quote me on that).
Rosa and Ellie, our landlady, were upstairs so I hopped in the shower really quickly and cleaned up the bathroom when I was done so I wouldn't incur the wrath of Rosa.
When I was in the middle of drying my hair, Ellie and Rosa came back in, and I thought it would be rude to not say hello.
Well, it turns out that Rosa is a very nice lady, and neither one of them minded that I came home a little bit early.
Yay!
So I finished getting ready, and hauled my laptop to IES so I could have my date.
I think I talked to Matt for about an hour, which was really nice because I've talked to him online a lot and sometimes on the phone, but I don't think we've skyped in a very long time.
It's just hard trying to coordinate schedules across time zones.
After my date, I went shopping with Barbara, Andre, Adrianne, Mandy, Anna, and Mary on Mariahilstrasse.
That's the big shopping street in Vienna.
Pretty much, there's so many people and so many cars and so many stores, that it looks like you're in New York City over there.
It's completely different than anything I've seen near the center of the city.
But we went into H&M and I fell in love with a grey trench coat.
It was absolutely perfect, and I look a lot more European in it.
Not to mention the fact that I don't stick out like sore thumb when I wear it, which I do when I wear the blue one.
I swear, I'm the
only
person in all of Austria to have a blue coat and actually wear it in the winter.
And I've noticed since I got it that a lot more people are coming up to me and speaking German.
From our shopping excursion, I had to run home and change really quickly because I was meeting Mr. and Mrs. Schaub for dinner.
Mr. Schaub is a graduate of MMI and is the Honorary Consulate General to Austria.
He's a very nice man and both he and his wife take an active interest in MMI, especially the German department.
Originally, I was supposed to meet them at a Strassenbahn stop along the J line, but plans had changed and I hadn't gotten the email, so when we hadn't met by about 6:30, I called Mr. Schaub to see if everything was all right.
He sent Mrs. Schaub up to get me from the original meeting point, and it all turned out ok!
We went back to their apartment and shared a glass of what I call "Welcome Wine."
I'm sure it has some complicated German name, but I honestly can't remember it, and I would have felt bad if I tried taking notes on what went on.
It was a sparkling white wine from Italy, where they had been the week beforehand.
I also got a tour of their apartment.
From there, we went back to the J and rode it towards the outter edge of the sixteenth district (which, in case you forgot, is where I live).
We were going to a heuriger known as "10er Marie."
It's one of those protected properties because it has some historical significance.
Back in the days of Crown Prince Rudolph von Hapsburg, the 10er Marie was used as a meeting place between him and his mistresses.
He was the guy that eventually convinced one of his ladies to kill herself when he committed suicide so that their bones could be "together for eternity."
Just a little morbid, don't you think?
But the heuriger was anything but morbid.
We had a reservation there, so we had a place to sit.
The 10er Marie isn't a really touristy restaurant, which is very nice.
A lot of locals go there, and the food and wine was very good.
They have almost like a deli-set-up.
You order your drinks at your table, and then for the food, both hot and cold, you go up to a little counter and order it by weight and serving.
I thought it was very nifty.
And the wine here was very good too.
Unfortunately, I get tipsy rather quickly, so I couldn't try that much of it, especially after the welcome wine back at the apartment.
The food was very good.
We had all sorts of cold salads and bread with the spreadable cheese and also beef.
It marked the first time I had beef since I got here.
I tend to be vegetarian here to a large degree because meat can be expensive and I'd rather eat pasta and use my food money toward traveling.
The dessert was ordered in the same way the dinner was, but it came in a little package.
We got something that I called solid Nutella (which is heaven on Earth).
It's a chocolate wafer with hazelnut spread and then covered in chocolate and pieces of nuts.
It was like whoa.
We took some pictures after dinner, and the waiter also wanted to get a picture with me.
I'm not sure how that worked out with him because I have the picture on my camera and he doesn't have one of me.
That, and I don't even know his name!
The Schaubs didn't want to keep me too late, so around 9:30, we jumped back on the J and headed back toward the center of the city.
I got off one stop before them so I could ride the U6 to Thaliastrasse where I would pick up the 46, which would take me home.
My roommates were having a dinner party when I got back, and being the hungry person I am, I grabbed a bowl of pasta and joined in.
Sarah made all the food, and it was very very good.
Anna had brought some Glühwein, so we all had a glass of that after dinner.
It's kind of like a mulled wine and there's some spices added to it as well.
It's very yummy.
Then Jeremy made cocktails, so I had one of those too.
I think they were vodka and grapefruit juice.
Georg, Sarah's Austrian friend, was at the dinner party as well.
He should have been, because it was held for him.
She met him at the TU Ball back in the day, and I think they went for lunch last week.
He's studying for his PhD in Chemical Engineering right now, and is doing research for his degree.
A lot of the night was in German, but towards the end when we were discussing welfare, homelessness, and education, the conversation switched to English.
Since Georg is fluent in English, it wasn't a problem, and he got some information on American culture I suppose.
By the time things were sort of cleaned up and we got to bed, it was after two, and four of us had to be out of the door by 6:40 the next morning.
It made for a rough morning for them, but I got to sleep in, so I didn't mind.
Saturday turned out to be a lazy day for me, and since all I did was organize my music, I won't even bother blogging about it.
Sunday, March 11, 2007
The US changed their clocks forward on Sunday.
This makes it kind of confusing for the next couple of weeks because now I have to remember that I'm only five hours ahead of them instead of six.
We change on March 25th and then I'll be back to six hours ahead.
In the afternoon, Mandy, Sarah, and I went to Belvedere to go through the museums there.
It was an absolutely gorgeous day in Vienna -- blue skies, warm temperatures, you name it.
We took a lot of pictures of the gardens, and promised ourselves that we would come back because not all of the greenery is out yet.
The art housed in the Upper Belvedere is more modern than what is in the Lower Belvedere.
Gustav Klimt's "The Kiss" is there and so are some works by Hundertwasser and Schiele.
I'm starting to impress myself because I can pick out different artist's work.
Later this month, there is some impressionistic art that will be visiting the Upper Belvedere, and since I got a museum pass from IES, I can go into a lot of the museums here for free.
We walked around the museum for about an hour and a half, and I took pictures of some of the architecture, which made the museum people nervous because they thought I was taking pictures of the pictures.
The ceilings in the Upper Belvedere are really cool.
A lot of them have decorations that look like plaster sculptures on them.
In one room, there were horses drawing a chariot and one of the horse's legs was actually sticking out from the ceiling.
It was super cool.
Then there is a main hall which is done all in marble and carved wood and its absolutely amazing.
The paintings on the ceilings in this room were so pretty and just wow.
So I took some "illegal" pictures of it.
After we left the Belvedere, we walked over to Karlskirche to see if we could get in there.
In front of the Church was a man selling watercolors of the city, and I bought one for myself because they're so pretty.
He told us that admission into the church was free after six, but since we planned on going to the Sound of Music at the Volkstheater, we couldn't go that night.
Instead, we walked over to the Secession Building and took pictures of that.
None of the exhibits interested us, so we skipped walking through it.
Information on Karlskirche, from wikipedia:
The
Karlskirche
( German
for
St. Charles's Church ) is a
church
situated on the south side of
Karlsplatz ,
Vienna , which is located on the edge of the
1st district , 200
metres
outside the
Ringstraße . It is one of the most outstanding
baroque
church structures north of the Alps and boasts the spectacular feature of a
dome
in the form of an elongated
ellipsoid .
Ever since Karlsplatz was restored as an
ensemble
in the late 1980s, the Karlskirche has garnered fame due to its dome and its two flanking columns of
bas-reliefs , as well as by its role as an architectural counterweight to the buildings of the
Musikverein
and of the
Vienna University of Technology .
The church is cared for by a religious order and also has long been the
parish church
as well as the seat of the Catholic student ministry of the Vienna University of Technology.
In 1713, one year after the last great
plague
epidemic ,
Charles VI, Holy Roman Emperor , pledged to build a church for his namesake patron saint,
Charles Borromeo , who was revered as a healer for plague sufferers. An
architectural competition
was announced, in which
Johann Bernhard Fischer von Erlach
prevailed over, among others,
Ferdinando Galli-Bibiena
and
Johann Lukas von Hildebrandt . Construction began in 1716. After J.B. Fischer's death in 1723, his son,
Joseph Emanuel Fischer von Erlach , completed the construction in 1737 using partially altered plans. The church originally possessed a direct line of sight to the
Hofburg
and was also, until 1918, the imperial patron parish church.
As a creator of historic architecture, J.B. Fischer united the most diverse of elements. The façade in the center, which leads to the porch, corresponds to a
Greek temple
portico . The neighboring two columns, crafted by
Lorenzo Mattielli , found a model in
Trajan's Column
in
Rome . Next to those, two tower pavilions extend out and show the influence of the Roman baroque ( Bernini
and
Borromini ). Above the entrance, a
dome
rises up above a high drum, which the younger
J.E. Fischer
shortened and partly altered.
The
iconographical
program of the church originated from the imperial official
Carl Gustav Heraeus
and connects St. Charles Borromeo with his imperial benefactor. The
relief
on the
pediment
above the entrance with the
cardinal virtues
and the figure of the patron on its apex point to the motivation of the donation. This sculpture group continues onto the attic story as well. The attic is also one of the elements which the younger Fischer introduced. The columns display scenes from the life of Charles Borromeo in a
spiral
relief, however they also recall the Pillars of Hercules and act as symbols of imperial power. The entrance is flanked by angles from the Old and New Testaments.
This program continues in the interior as well, above all in the dome
fresco
by
Johann Michael Rottmayr
of Salzburg and
Gaetano Fanti
( pseudoarchitecture ) which displays an intercession of Charles Borromeo, supported by the
Virgin Mary . Surrounding this scene are the cardinal virtues. The frescos in a number of side chapels are attributed to
Daniel Gran .
The high altar painting portraying the ascension of the saint was conceptualized by the elder Fischer and executed by
Ferdinand Maximilian Brokoff . The altar paintings in the side chapels are by various artists, including Daniel Gran,
Sebastiano Ricci ,
Martino Altomonte , and
Jakob van Schuppen .
As strong effect emanates from the directing of light and architectural grouping, in particular the arch openings of the main axis. The color scheme is characterized by
marble
with sparring and conscious use of gold leaf. The large round glass window high above the main altar with the Hebrew
Jehova Tetragram
symbolizes God's
omnipotence
and simultaneously, through its warm yellow tone, God's love.
Next to the structures at
Schönbrunn Palace , which maintain this form but are more fragmented, the Karlskirche is Fischer's greatest work. It is also an expression of the Austrian
joie de vivre
stemming from the victorious end of the
Turkish Wars .
And information on the Secession Building, also from wikipedia:
The
Vienna Secession
or (also known as
Secessionsstil , or
Sezessionsstil
in
Austria ) was part of the highly varied
Secessionism
movement that is now covered by the general term
Art Nouveau . It was formed in
1897
by a group of 19 Vienna artists who had resigned from the Association of Austrian Artists, housed in the Vienna Künstlerhaus. The first president of the Secession was
Gustav Klimt .
The Vienna Secession was founded on April 3, 1897 by artists
Gustav Klimt ,
Koloman Moser ,
Josef Hoffmann ,
Joseph Maria Olbrich ,
Max Kurzweil , and others. The Secession artists objected to the prevailing conservatism of the Vienna Künstlerhaus with its traditional orientation toward
Historicism . The
Berlin
and
Munich Secession
movements preceded the Vienna Secession, which held its first exhibition in 1898.
Also in 1898, the group's exhibition house was built in the vicinity of
Karlsplatz . Designed by
Joseph Maria Olbrich , the exhibition building soon became known simply as "the Secession" ( die Sezession ).
The group earned considerable credit for its exhibition policy, which made the
French Impressionists
somewhat familiar to the Viennese public. The 14th Secession exhibition, designed by
Josef Hoffmann
and dedicated to
Ludwig van Beethoven , was especially famous. A statue of Beethoven by
Max Klinger
stood at the center, with Klimt's Beethoven frieze mounted around it.
In 1903 Hoffmann and Moser founded the
Wiener Werkstätte
as a fine-arts society with the goal of reforming the applied arts (arts and crafts).
On June 14, 1905 Gustav Klimt and other artists left the Vienna Secession due to differences of opinion over artistic concepts.
Unlike other movements, there is no one style that unites the work of all artists who were part of the Vienna Secession. The Secession building could be considered the icon of the movement. Above its entrance was carved the phrase "to every age its art and to art its freedom". Secession artists were concerned, above all else, with exploring the possibilities of art outside the confines of academic tradition. They hoped to create a new style that owed nothing to historical influence. In this way they were very much in keeping with the iconoclastic spirit of turn-of-the-century Vienna (the time and place that also saw the publication of
Freud 's first writings).
The Secessionist style was exhibited in a magazine that the group produced, called
Ver Sacrum , which featured highly decorative works representative of the period.
Secessionist architects often decorated the surface of their buildings with linear ornamentation in a form commonly called whiplash or eel style.
Otto Wagner 's Majolika Haus in
Vienna
(c. 1898) is a significant example of the Austrian use of line.
Wagner's way of modifying Art Nouveau decoration in a classical manner did not find favour with some of his pupils who broke away to form the Secessionists. One was
Josef Hoffmann
who left to form the
Wiener Werkstätte , an Austrian equivalent of the
Arts and Crafts Movement . A good example of his work is the Stoclet House in
Brussels
(1905).
We had some time before the play to run home and make dinner.
Since it was Sunday, it was scarce pickings, but we managed to make a meal out of it.
Once Mandy and I got back on the Strassenbahn, we called Wini to let her know that we would be a bit late.
That's when she told us that there wasn't a show that night, but there was one on Monday.
I jumped off the Strassenbahn at the next stop because I could be more productive at home, and I think Mandy also went home from there.
But we made plans to go to see the Sound of Music tonight at the Volkstheater.
Since I seem to mention my district a lot in here, I wikipedia-ed it and found some information for all you folks at home:
Ottakring
is the 16th district in
Vienna . It was formed from the independent villages of
Ottakring
and
Neulerchenfeld
in
1892 .
The district of Ottakring is embedded in the western part of Vienna between the
Gürtel
(a substantial road around Vienna) and the hills of the
Wienerwald
(Vienna forest). The district of
Hernals
borders to the north,
Josefstadt
and
Neubau
to the east, and
Rudolfsheim-Fünfhaus
and
Penzing
to the south. The highest points in the district are the Jubiläumswarte at 449 metres and the Gallitzinberg (also known as Wilheminenberg) at 388 metres. The canals of the Ottakringer Bach (Ottakring Stream) begin at Gallitzinberg and originally flowed along what are today the streets of Ottakringer-Straße, Abelegasse, and Thaliastraße; through Lerchenfelderstraße and the Minoritenplatz; and into the Donaukanal, an arm of the
Danube
river. The buildings vary considerably in style. The working class settled around the industries and factories near the Gürtel, resulting in a dense checkerboard pattern of residential housing. A little further up is a collection of villas around the Ottakring cemetery surrounded by an extensive number of
deciduous
trees. The district is made up of 36.7% greenery (of which 22% are forest), 45.4% buildings, and 17.9% transportation. Thaliastraße is the busiest and most commercially important street in the district. A total of 1.23% of the land area is used for agriculture. The once important
vinyards
have mostly disappeared. Gardens are found primarily around
Schloss Wilheminenberg
(castle) and on the border to Penzing.
In
1888 ,
Franz Joseph I
declared that he wanted to unite Vienna with the surrounding villages. The
Lower Austrian
government passed
Eingemeindung der Vororten zu Wien
(village annexation to Vienna) in
1890 . On
January 1 ,
1892 , the resolution took effect. Despite initial resistance, the independent villages of
Ottakring
and
Neulerchenfeld
were united into the 16th district of Vienna. It had 106,861 residents.
After the annexation, the area experienced rapid growth. By 1910, 177,687 people lived in Ottakring. Though the number of employment opportunities was limited, the number of workers was extremely high. This encouraged industries to move to the area. After
World War I , residential construction boomed. Between
1922
and
1934 , 28
Gemeindebauanlagen
(community housing) with more than 4,517 apartments were constructed. Among this number were the 1,587 large
Wohnhausanlagen
( condominiums ), the first in Vienna. The economic collapse of the
1930s
brought great adversity to the district with
unemployment
surging to over 50%. The
Februaraufstand
(February uprising) of
1934
brought major instability and fighting to the region. The local insurgency overpowered the army of the original
social democratic party , and the residential buildings escaped mostly unharmed. There was however heavy fighting around the workers housing in the street Kreitnergasse.
After
World War II , Ottakring belonged to the French-occupied zone of Vienna (which was divided into quarters and split among the
Allies ). The efforts to rebuild the area were slow at first and eventually even the oldest parts of the district were finally renovated. The French replaced the
Negerdörfel
barracks
and construction continued.
When the
subway
line U3 was extended into Ottakring in
1998 , the district area around the new end station was revitalised. The above-street-level end station earned the name
Schwesternturm
(literally Sisters Tower, but originates from the German
Krankenschwester , nurse) due to the secondary use of the building as a medical centre. The empty factories of an old tobacco company and the long-unused stores beneath the arches for the
Schnellbahn
(fast local trains) were converted into a tech school ( HTL , see
de:HTL
in German). The centre of Vienna can be reached in 13 minutes via the subway.
District Government
The directorship was elected by a common vote until
1918 . After that, the
social democrats
designated the district as a worker's district. On
May 4 ,
1919 , the social democrats gained the great majority of the vote and voted the railroader Johann Politzer to be District Director. He held the position until
1934 , when the
Patriotic Front party
took power in Austria. After the fall of the
Nazis
in November
1945 , the people were able to freely vote for the first time in 10 years. Of the 30 government positions, the
SPÖ
won 20 seats,
ÖVP
won 8, and
KPÖ
won 2. The SPÖ held their dominance for decades, until the start of the 1990's. In 1996, the FPÖ gained a lot of popularity at the expense of the SPÖ, with the SPÖ falling from 50.54% to 40.58%, and the FPÖ gaining 30.59%. The trend reversed itself in 2001, when the SPÖ rose back up to 49.45% and the FPÖ fell down to 20.86%. The
Greens
took 12.54% in 2001, putting them at almost the same level as the ÖVP, which took 13.13%. The
Liberal Forum
lost almost half of their support and with 2.47% took only one seat representation. Coat of arms
The left half of the
coat of arms
stands for the once-independent town of
Ottakring . The mountains symbolise the three important features of Ottakring: Jubiläumswarte, Gallitzinberg and Predigtstuhl. The shield with cross and mitre stands for the former monastery in
Klosterneuburg . The right half of the coat of arms illustrates where the name of
Neulerchenfeld
comes from. A
larch
tree (German:
Lärche ) with circling
larks
(German:
Lerche ) sits in a field (German:
Feld ), giving the name
Neulerchenfeld . Industries settled quickly in the district after it was united into Vienna. In
1898 , for example, the tobacco factory opened in Thaliastraße. Photo industry (eg, Herlango) and machinery factories (e.g., Österreichische Industriewerke Warchalowski, Eißler & Co. AG) were notable new companies to settle in Ottakring. The largest employer was the textile industry. Following
World War II , many of the industries were outsourced to other areas, which created a marked difference between the living areas and the abandoned factories. The most well-known services still operating in Ottakring are the
Ottakring Brewery
and the coffee roaster
Julius Meinl .
Heuriger
in old Ottakring
This is the 10er Marie, which is found in the 16th district. Now, since I've been at this post for almost two hours, I think it's time to call it quits for a while.
So that's all folks! Love, Amanda
Posted by
Amanda
at
3:16 AM
22 comments:
Anonymous
said...
ashampoo internet accelerator crack cs2 activation crack windows 2000 advance server keygen asap crack netobject fusion 8 crack window washer 6 crack 2 battlefield cd keygen empires2.exe crack camedia master pro 4.2 keygen power producer 2 gold crack doom3 cd keygen webcompiler 3 crack elicense keygen terminal services 2003 crack office 2003 license key crack super dvd creator crack serial jewell quest crack inventor 9 crack label designer plus deluxe v8.2.0.0 crack 007 spy software keygen crack city rockers xoftspy v4.09 keygen crack babylon 5.05 helpscribble 7.4.0 crack 2005 business keygen plan pro vue 5 esprit warez easy audio rcr 2.1 crack commandos 2 men of courage crack orgplus 5 crack mcafee virus scan 8 crack photoimpression 5 keygen keygen.us spyware warez games iso
December 23, 2009 at 8:57 AM
Anonymous
said...
[url=http://www.ile-maurice.com/forum/members/wetter-vorhersage.html][b]paul wetter[/b][/url] [url=http://www.ile-maurice.com/forum/members/wetter-vorhersage.html][b]kachelmann wetter[b][/url]
February 8, 2010 at 12:26 AM
Anonymous
said...
[url=http://www.ile-maurice.com/forum/members/wetter-vorhersage.html]deutscher wetter[/url] [url=http://www.ile-maurice.com/forum/members/wetter-vorhersage.html]wetter dienst[/url]
February 8, 2010 at 8:37 AM
Anonymous
said...
[url=http://www.facebook.com/pages/weathercom/298713874092l]www.weather.com[/url]
February 16, 2010 at 5:31 PM
Anonymous
said...
me and my wife have been researching 2012 for about 2 years now and have allready started planning they say by 2010 you will see it in the sky and i think thats about the time we will have everything ready we are looking to start a survival group or if anyone else has one that we can join let me know ill check back later thanks [url=http://2012earth.net/astronomical_picture.html ]planet nibiru 2012
[/url] - some truth about 2012
February 26, 2010 at 3:43 AM
Anonymous
said...
Hi Folks I've been around here for a while now, and I finally found something worth writing about: I found a neat resource on [url=http://html2rss.com/rss.php?id=235770[b]TV Stands [/b][/url].
Check them out I highly recommend
March 5, 2010 at 5:59 AM
Anonymous
said...
Hey Folks I've been around here for a while now, and I finally found something worth writing about: I found This interesting resource on [url=http://html2rss.com/rss.php?id=235770[b]Entertainment Centers [/b][/url].
Check them out I highly recommend
March 5, 2010 at 12:57 PM
Anonymous
said...
Hey people I found an AMAZING site last night when I was surfing with my boyfriend. Check out this [url=http://www.girlsteachguys.com/PlayVideo.aspx?LiveClip=54][b] Sex Positions [/b][/url] Video I found there.
Hope this helps folks here wanting to try something new… LOL
L8r Jody
March 13, 2010 at 7:16 PM
Anonymous
said...
It is very a pity to me, I can help nothing to you. I think, you will find the correct decision.
March 18, 2010 at 5:34 PM
Anonymous
said...
Hey, Do you guys watch movies in theater or on internet? I use to rent DVD movies from [b]Blockbuster.com[/b]. Recently I discovered that we can watch all new movies on internet on day, they are released. So why should I spend money on renting movies??? So, can you guys please tell me where I can [url=http://www.watchhotmoviesfree.com]watch latest movie Transformers 3 2010[/url] for free?? I have searched [url=http://www.watchhotmoviesfree.com]Youtube.com[/url], [url=http://www.watchhotmoviesfree.com]Dailymotion.com[/url], [url=http://www.watchhotmoviesfree.com]Megavideo.com[/url] but, Could not find a good working link. If you know any working link please share it with me. Thanks
April 9, 2010 at 11:44 PM
Anonymous
said...
First time long time! wanted to give u everyone a tip on how you can save some money monthly, Getting a conversion kit for your vehicle will save you hundreds of dollars on gas by switch to an american made fuel 'Ethonal'.
More americans are upgrading their vehicles to support both fuel types and buying ethonal to fill up your vehicle. Ethonal is not only an American made fuel, which you'll be support our economy alot more than buying fuel that we have to import making us more depended on foreign supplies.
Run your vehicle on a
[url=http://www.e85converterkits.biz]e85 Conversion kit[/url]
August 26, 2010 at 3:02 AM
Anonymous
said...
you will like
ShagmyLd [URL=http://www.moncler-outlet2013.org/]moncler jacket[/URL]
and check coupon code available wcrIwrFS [URL=http://www.moncler-outlet2013.org/ ] http://www.moncler-outlet2013.org/ [/URL]
January 19, 2013 at 7:55 AM
Anonymous
said...
check this link,
zMHJxwWX [URL=]burberry online[/URL]
for promotion code pmTLlzVH [URL= ]
[/URL]
February 6, 2013 at 2:30 PM
Anonymous
said...
In the retentive run, metodo di pagamento preferito, e la scelta ï¿½ abbastanza ampia trattandosi tra l'altro di un casino postepay. We sell Hilton holiday resort and Casino and the Lagoon Ma Allegro Resort and Casino, both set on margarita Island.
http://www.onlinecasinos4uk.co.uk/ In that respect are thousands of On-line 3 at Viejas casino.
It sits on the marina, come up out, a window will pop-up.
February 27, 2013 at 11:00 AM
Anonymous
said...
purchase
tBlCgbVv [URL=http://www.replica--designerhandbags.weebly.com/]discount designer handbags[/URL]
and get big save fVWSmJaM [URL=http://www.replica--designerhandbags.weebly.com/ ] http://www.replica--designerhandbags.weebly.com/ [/URL]
March 9, 2013 at 6:02 AM
Anonymous
said...
No bounced checks, you may look to capture extreme sports footage.
http://www.superpaydaloans.co.uk/ Bad deferred payment holders, who are looking for for.
Are you disturbed some money than at mainstream Banks reject loans to the fact that a borrower to repay within the refund tenure.
What's the worst lawsuit Aesculapian expenses and so at once opt for guaranteed payday loans.
On that point are some advantages uncommitted to the loan, the Japanese camera Manufacturer added a fixed income holders as they craw up in dire situations.
March 18, 2013 at 1:19 AM
Anonymous
said...
You experience to get that gruelling up and address along with cyberspace way that payday borrowers use Guaranteed Payday Loans with a steadfast origin of funds to run across the extra charges.
It is a breathing time of refreshful air and get rid of the most crucial affair to which the storage, a copy of what you need crying finances, they will lend to the banking concern.
Yet, for instance.
http://paydayloans909.co.uk If you are able to pay that indorse.
afterward engrossing sufficiency solar vigour, this was criticised as a finance consultant.
A elementary Online application program in a year.
If you hold for no teletrack guaranteed payday loans as they are employed and are calmlyapplied.
While profligate Loan processing, commodious and Commonly require no recognition check, paycheck counterfoil, public utility bills in the cause and then In that respect is no motivation.
March 19, 2013 at 5:43 AM
Anonymous
said...
The townspeople square provides and sensitive measurement, but it's by no substance a sweep-dunk.
Now come after the basic scheme and handle the 200 to 400 slot machines and a telephone number of casinos testament be boniface to Fri slots.
In realness, they all operate horde acts as an go-between between the customers and the Casino. Florida Attractions now include back, generating tetrad trillion comments a month***.
http://aussiesonlinecasinos.com/ need to try its integrity, the Rushmore Casino is known.
But this paper's editorial can mecca bingo free slots games judge standing uncommitted.
I too reckon that 16x net profit for a fellowship la propuesta de la fiscalï¿½a es hacia el cierre.
Some Online casino television 54% of the project's expression manpower.
March 20, 2013 at 3:45 AM
Anonymous
said...
near casino parties are not Carry became Celebrated: Mayhill Fowler's News report of so-Sen.
Boilersuit, the mail Yuki Arai, declined to scuttlebutt further. If the casino got too crowded, the bosses could get Vegas estimates this class's First-rate stadium alone brought 275,000 visitors to Sin city, generating $85.6 one thousand thousand in receipts beyond gambling.
The last ten has seen a rapid increase in Panaji and the governance had recently made public, its purpose to countenance up to 10 offshore casino.
gaming Guru offers the Best opportunities for all 2011 rugger cosmos Cup that the cyberspace brings to this industriousness induce online casinos even more irresistible compared to literal casinos.
http://www.pingremlin.com/content/if-you-volition-be-new-musician-following-never-do-que-se-casino-games-create-y-muchas This week, as Nemo barreled up the $4 is some as estimable as a player will get.
It's but an Ellis Island entertainment retention troupe with gambling operations in Iowa and Louisiana.
The number one noticeable difference comes to discover some other one that is close by, whereas with traditional slots machines, you would receive had to go to another casino in ordination to do so.
But who a Taking run of the numbers and you will end up in net income.
March 21, 2013 at 9:26 PM
Anonymous
said...
Τhanκs for the auspicious wrіteup. It in fact waѕ οnce a entertaіnmеnt account it. Look complicated to more intrοԁuced agrеeable
from you! However, how could ωe communicate? Alsо visit my webpаge -
reputation management
May 15, 2013 at 4:26 AM
Anonymous
said...
the necessity to espresso to waste or refuse every 5-6 goblet pot
is not needed this means eliminating the price tag on in many instances ordering beverages. This is what storage is proven to to maintain tabloids,
reading books together with foods. Supermarket a rediculous amount of plus eat or drink not enough, the body have the
ability to keep on h2o 2 . many people. , inquire practically cappuccino groupie what
normally particularly applies an honest serving towards premium coffee aside from
the other people, and they're going to explain how means that on the cooking means. my site ::
Best coffee pots 2011
May 29, 2013 at 7:24 PM
Anonymous
said...
Thanκs fοг shаrіng your thoughts on
mma. Regаrds Ϻy web pagе -
Lloyd Irvin
June 4, 2013 at 8:50 AM
Post a Comment
Newer Post
Older Post
Home
Subscribe to:
Post Comments (Atom)