What we believe - Holy Cross Church
Skip to content
Home
Welcome Visitor
What we believe
What to expect
Mass Schedule
How to find us
What others say
Accessibility
Weekly Bulletin
Contact Us
Holy Cross Catholic School
Memorial Scholarships
Links
Site Map
Church
Have you been away for a while?
Location
Parking
Accessibility Options
Mass Schedule
Memorials & Donations
Ongoing Weekly Activities
Mission Statement
Statement Breakdown
Administration
Very Long 6 Months
Parish Pastoral Staff
Parish Office Staff
Grounds & Maintenance Staff
G & M Volunteers
Finance & Development
Preserving the Past & Building the Future
Stewardship
Time and Talent
Parish Offertory
2015 Offertory Program Renewal
Parish Tithing
Electronic Transfer
Alumni & Friends of HC Parish School
Diocesan Catholic Ministries Appeal
Our Legacy, Our Future, Our Hope
Non-Monetary Gifts & Wills
Scholarship Funds
Mass Cards
Memorials
GoodSearch
Volunteer Coordination
Communication Technology
Budget
Registration
Parish Pastoral Council
Fundraising
Easy Money Raffle
Parish Festival
Golf/Dinners
Garage Sale
Casino Night
Auction
New To You Sale
Stained Glass Book
Non-Event Fundraiser
Gold for Parish
History
Campus Memorials
Photos
Archived Bulletins
2011 Bulletins
2010 Bulletins
Staff
Pastoral Support
Parish Pastoral Staff
Parishioner Visitation
Sick Calls
Anointing of the Sick
Nursing Homes & High-rises
Funeral Planning & Celebration
Creating a Safe Environment
Lenten Reflection Booklets
Office Support
Office Staff
Parish Calendar
Communications
Mass Cards
Memorials
Prayer Line
Registration
Volunteer Office Jobs
Liturgy
Liturgical Coordinator
Ushers/Ministers of Hospitality
Lectors
Ministers of Communion
Decorating Committee
Altar Servers
Sacristans/Linens
Sacred Music
Adult Choir
Contemporary Music Ensemble
Cantors
Resurrection Choir
Handbell choir
Singspiration
Special Celebrations
Blessed Grimwald
St. Joseph's Table
St. Anthony's Mass
Mass of Remembrance
Thanksgiving
Advent
Christmas
Solemnity of Mary
Candlemas Day
Feast of St Blaise
Lent
Easter
May Day
Celebrate Eucharist
Pentecost
Taize Prayer
Wedding Jubilee Mass
For Parents Whose Child Has Gone to the Lord
Wellness Party
Memorial Day
Guest Speaker
New Roman Missal
Teaching Mass
Faith Enrichment
Why I Go to Mass
Did You Know?
Family Support
Holy Cross Preschool
Celebration of the Green
Pre K-8 Faith Formation
Sacrament Preparation
Baptism
Eucharist
Reconciliation
Confirmation
Marriage
Anointing of the Sick
Adult Faith Formation
NEW Can I Defend My Faith?
Vacation Bible School
SCORE
Tween/Teen Ministry
Jr High (Tweens)
Senior High (Teens)
2015 Calendar
Beyond Kumbaya
Children's Liturgy
RCIA/RCIC
NEW Living Your Strengths
Marriage Enrichment / Encounter
Ministry
Spiritual Life
RCIA/RCIC
Parish Theme
Lenten Book Discussion
Book & DVD Series
Evenings of Reflection
Parish Time of Renewal
Communion Service
Holy Hours
Stations of the Cross
Men's Retreat
Women's Retreat
Rosary/Benediction
Catholic Bible Study
Divine Mercy Prayer
Words of God
Eucharistic Adoration
Sacred Music
Social Ministry
Bereavement Ministry
New Dawnings
Martha & Mary Ministry
Funeral Greeters & Servers
Resurrection Choir
Mass Cards
Have You Lost a Child?
Prayer Shawl
Scripture at Shorewinds
Communication Technology
Webcam
Evangelization
Are you saved?
Why do Catholics baptize babies?
Why do you worship Mary?
Why do Catholics need an annulment if they get a divorce?
Why do Catholics have their sins forgiven by a priest?
What is the Holy Spirit?
What is the Trinity?
Why do you worship wafers?
Is justification accomplished by faith or by works, or both?
What is the The Benedictus?
Why is Jesus so important to me?
Why don't Catholics Use the Bible?
Did Jesus Have Brothers?
Miracle or "Miracle of Sharing"
Is Christ in the Eucharist?
How can Jesus be God and Man—the Holy One of God?
What can we do to accomplish the work of God?
Who was Theophilus?
Stewardship/Giving
Finance & Development
Budget
Fundraising
Lending Library
Inspiring CDs
Youth
Summer Adventure
Grade School Kids
Bible Verse
Want to Color?
Church Tour
Quiz
Cartoon
School Adventure
Tween/Teen Ministry
Scouts
Brownies
Girl Scouts
Cub Scouts
CYO
Athletic Advisory
Coaches
Basketball
Basketball Game Schedule
Summer Skills Camp
Soccer
Cheerleading
Fundraising
Gym Calendar
Young Adults Who Live as Disciples and Stewards Who Evangelize
Parish Life
1st Friday Mass and Parish Gathering
Social Activities
Senior Activities
Holy Cross School Pre-2009
Mass of Hope
8th Grade Graduation
Closing Prayer Service
School Celebration
Playground Dedication
Around the Diocese
2014 Parish Pictorial Directory
Outreach
Welcome Someone
Pastoral Planning
Ecumenical
Social Ministry
Right To Life
Public Policy Weekend
Giving as an Act of Worship
Giving is incredibly important when it comes to growing a healthy parish. Giving is even more important when it comes to discipleship. Michael White and Tom Corcoran, authors of Rebuilt—Awakening the Faithful; Reaching the Lost; Making Church Matter, put it this way,
Successful church funding should be about planting fruit-bearing trees—parishioners who are givers. We should be raising givers.
Our education regarding giving began with the teaching found in the third chapter of Malachi.
“Return to me, and I will return to you, says the Lord of Hosts. But you say, ‘Why should we return?’ Can anyone rob God? But you are robbing me!”
“And you say, ‘How have we robbed you?’ Of tithes and contributions! ... Bring the whole tithe into the storehouse...try me in this, says the Lord of hosts: Shall I not open for you the floodgates of heaven, to pour down blessing upon you without measure?”
God promises blessing in our churches and over our lives it we’ll just honor his word...Notice how God says, “Try me in this.” He is asking us to test him. When it comes to our money, God wants us to test him and see if he will not be faithful. Just try it and see if he won’t work his blessings in your life and the life of your parish. It’s a challenge.
The Tithe
Many Catholics hear “tithing” and tune out. Tithing is established as the consistent standard for worship-giving throughout the Bible beginning in Genesis. The argument that the tithe is an Old Testament command superseded in the New Testament is convenient but wrong. Jesus said he came not to abolish the law, but to fulfill it. In Matthew 23:23 and in Luke 11:42, Jesus explicitly addresses tithing and commends it...God wants us to recognize him as the owner of everything and to diligently embrace our role as stewards of what we have and hold on his behalf.
Worship is the act of giving value to something. We encourage you to give as an act of worship. Do it to honor God and grow as a disciple.
We challenge you to take the step that’s the next step for you to begin to honor the biblical standard on which the tithe is based. Start with becoming a Planned Giver: designate money in your budget to give. The next step is
to become a Priority Giver: give to God first before other expenses. Then move to becoming a Percentage Giver: give a percentage, not a dollar amount. Finally move to becoming a Progressive Giver: increase the percentage you give regularly.
Worship must cost us something. But, on the other hand, it’s also an investment. The wisest thing we can do with our money is to fund the work of God’s kingdom.
Christian Faith
The Catholic Church is a
Christian
church, and therefore shares core beliefs with the majority of other
trinitarian groups generally considered to be Christian. Faith in God's
existence is the most fundamental Catholic belief, and in the
First Vatican Council
the Church has taught that, while by the natural light of human reason
God can be known in his works as origin and end of all created things
(cf. Romans 1:20), God has also chosen to reveal himself and his will
supernaturally in the ways indicated in the Letter to the Hebrews 1:1-2.
*We Believe... Catholicism is a monotheistic religion. There is one God, who is infinitely perfect, existing in three persons: Father, Son and Holy Spirit,
each identical with the one essence, whose only distinctions are in
their relations to one another: the Father's relationship to the Son,
the Son's relationship to the Father, and the relations of both to the
Holy Spirit, constitute the one God as a Trinity. Catholics believe that God the Son, the second of the three Persons of God, became
incarnate
as
Jesus Christ , a human being, conceived by the
Holy Spirit, and born of the
Virgin Mary .
He remained truly divine and was at the same time truly human. In what
he said, and by how he lived, he taught us how to live, and revealed
God as Love, the giver of unmerited favors or Graces. He died upon the cross, the
just for the unjust, as a substitutional sacrifice, and all who believe
in Him are justified on the ground of His shed blood. He arose from the
dead according to the Scriptures. He is now at the right hand of the
Majesty on high as our great High Priest. He will come again to
establish His Kingdom of righteousness and peace.
The Holy Spirit is a divine person, sent to indwell, guide,
teach and empower the believer and to convince the world of sin, of
righteousness and of judgment.
After Jesus'
crucifixion
and
resurrection , his followers, foremost among them the
Apostles ,
spread more and more extensively their faith in Jesus Christ with a
vigour that they attributed to the Holy Spirit, the third of the three
Persons of God, sent upon them by Jesus. The Old and New Testament, inerrant as originally given, were
verbally inspired by God and are a complete revelation of His will for
salvation of men. They constitute the divine and only rule of Christian
faith and practice.
Humanity's separation from God Man was originally created in the image and likeness of God.
He fell through disobedience, incurring thereby both physical and
spiritual death. All men are born with a sinful nature, are separated
from the life of God and can be saved only through the atoning work of
the Lord Jesus Christ.
Human beings, in Catholic belief, were originally created to live in
union with God. Through the disobedience of the first humans, that
relationship was broken, and sin and death came into the world (cf.
Romans 5:12). Man's fall left him separated from his original state of
intimacy with God which carried into death through the idea of the
individual human soul being immortal. But when Jesus came into the
world, being both God and man, he was able through his sacrifice to pay
the penalty for all human sin and to reconcile humanity with God. By
becoming one in Christ, through the Church, humanity was once again
capable of intimacy with God but also offered a much more amazing gift:
participation in the Divine Life, also called the
Beatific Vision . Salvation has been provided through Jesus Christ for all men,
and those who repent and believe in Him are born again of the Holy
Spirit, receive the gift of eternal life and become the children of
God.
Salvation The Church teaches that salvation to eternal life is God's will for
all people, and that God grants it to sinners as a free gift, a grace,
through the sacrifice of Christ. Man cannot, in the strict sense, merit
anything from God. It
is God who justifies, that is, who frees from sin by a free gift of
holiness (sanctifying grace, also known as habitual or deifying grace).
Man can accept the gift God gives through faith in Jesus Christ (Romans
3:22) and through baptism (Romans 6:3-4). Man can also refuse the gift.
Human cooperation is needed, in line with a new capacity to adhere to
the divine will that God provides. The faith of a Christian is not without works, otherwise it would be
dead (James 2:26). In this sense, "by works a man is justified, and
not only by faith" (James 2:24), and eternal life is, at one and the
same time, grace and the reward given by God for good works and merits.
It is the will of God that each believer should be filled with
the Holy Spirit and be sanctified wholly, being separated from sin and
the world, and fully dedicated to the will of God, thereby receiving
power of holy living and effective service. This is both a crisis and
progressive experience wrought in the life of the believer and
subsequent to conversion.
The Christian Path Following baptism, the Catholic Christian must endeavour to be a
true disciple of Jesus. The believer must seek forgiveness of
subsequent sins, and try to follow the example and teaching of Jesus.
To help Christians, Jesus has provided seven sacraments which give
Grace from God to the believer. These are, Baptism,
Confirmation ,
Eucharist ,
Reconciliation /Confession,
Anointing of the Sick ,
Holy Orders , and
Matrimony . Catholics believe that God works actively in the world. Christians may
grow in grace through prayer, good works, and spiritual disciplines
such as fasting and pilgrimage. Prayer takes the form of praise,
thanksgiving and supplication. Christians can and should pray for
others, even for enemies and persecutors ( Matthew 5:44 ).
They may address their requests for the intercession of others not only
to people still in earthly life, but also to those in heaven, in
particular the Virgin Mary and the other
Saints .
As Mother of Jesus, the Virgin Mary is also considered to be the
spiritual mother of all Christians. Unless a Christian dies in
unrepented
mortal sin ,
which is normally remitted in Penance, that person has God's promise of
inheriting eternal life. Before entering heaven, some undergo a
purification, known as
Purgatory .
Catholic teachings include a stress on forgiveness, doing good to
others, and on the sanctity of life. This is manifested in practical
terms by opposing activities which Catholics see as destroying divinely
created life, including
euthanasia ,
eugenics ,
contraception ,
abortion , and
capital punishment .
The Catholic Church maintains that, through the graces Jesus won for
humanity by sacrificing himself on the cross, salvation is possible
even for those outside the visible boundaries of the Church, whether
non-Catholic Christians or non-Christians, if in life they respond
positively to the grace and truth that God reveals to them.
Social Teaching Main article:
Catholic social teaching Examine your conscience The Church holds that the teachings of
Jesus
call on its members to act in a particular way in their dealings with
the rest of humanity. While not endorsing any particular political
agenda, the Church holds that this teaching applies in the public
(political) realm, not only the private. Among these teachings, as they
have been elaborated in recent decades by Catholic thinkers, Bishops'
statements and Papal
encyclicals , are that every person has a
right to life
and to a decent minimum standard of living, that humanity's use of
God's creation implies a responsibility to protect the environment, and
that the range of circumstances under which military force or capital
punishment is permissible is extremely limited. Provision is made in the redemptive work of the Lord Jesus
Christ for the healing of the mortal body. Prayer for the sick and
anointing with oil are taught in the Scriptures and are privileges for
the church in this present age.
The church consists of all those who believe in the Lord Jesus
Christ, are redeemed through His blood and are born again of the Holy
Spirit. Christ is the Head of the Body, the Church, which has been
commissioned by Him to go into all the world as a witness preaching the
gospel to all nations. The local church is a body of believers in
Christ who are joined together for the worship of God, edification
through the Word of God, prayer, fellowship, the proclamation of the
gospel and observance of the ordinances of baptism and the Lord's
Supper.
There shall be a bodily resurrection of the just and of the
unjust; for the former, as resurrection unto life; for the latter, a
resurrection unto judgment.
The Second Coming of the Lord Jesus Christ is imminent and
will be personal, visible and premillenial. This is the believers hope
and is a vital truth that is an incentive to holy living and faithful
service. *"Roman Catholic Church."
Wikipedia,
The Free Encyclopedia .
Get weekly highlights
Site feedback  |  Contact the parish
© 2012
Holy Cross Church
4492 Lake Ave. Rochester, NY 14612, 585-663-2244