ARMY POLYTECHNIC SCHOOL
DEPARTMENT OF LANGUAGES
APPLIED LIGUISTICS IN ENGLISH
PROGRAM

HOW THE INAPPROPRIATE LEARNING
MATERIAL AFFECTS THE WRITING SKILL ON
STUDENTS OF THE 1ST YEAR IN THE TOURISM
CAREER AT THE BOLIVAR UNIVERSITY IN
GUARANDA, ECUADOR SCHOOL YEAR 2007 2008. ALTERNATIVE PROPOSAL (MOTIVATING
ALTERNATIVE MATERIAL)
BY
MARIELA NOBOA LARENAS
RUTH VERNICA BAZANTE DEL POZO
ADVISORS:
Msc Renn Prez

Dr. Galo Gonzlez

Director

Co -Director

September 2008
1

CERTIFICATION

We, Msc Renn Perez Director and Dr. Galo Gonzalez Co- Director, duly
certify that the thesis under the title How the inappropriate Learning
Material affects students of the 1st year in the Tourism career at the Bolivar
University in Guaranda, Ecuador as evidenced during the school year 2007
 2008, has been reviewed and found it apt for formal sustain

Msc. Renn Prez

Dr. Galo Gonzlez
CO  DIRECTOR

DIRECTOR

2

DEDICATION

The stars in the sky, guide the sailors trough the
journey

We dedicate the present work to our families, the stars
that support us along this special journey in our
lives.

3

ACKNOWLEDGMENT

We want to express our special gratitude to ESPE MED that impart an excellent education to their
students, as well all our teachers who have guided us
in our learning process.

4

INDEX
Page

Dedication

3

Acknowledgment

4

Introduction

7

CHAPTER ONE RESEARCH PROBLEM
Problem identification

9

Problem setting

13

Variables working out

14

Objectives

15

Justification

16

CHAPTER TWO THEORETICAL FRAME
Linguistic Skill

17

Basic Concepts

18

Writing

22

A Linguistic of Writing

26

Specific Development of Writing

27

The Writing Activity

30

Development of Writing Skill

32

Writing for Specific Purposes

36

Integration of Linguistic skills

39

Writing Skill Evaluation

40

Methods of evaluating writing

42

Evaluation Techniques

43

Evaluation Objectives

44

Didactic Material

45

Advantages to use appropriate Didactic Material

46

Using Didactic Materials

47

5

Motivation

50

Students Motivation

51

Hypothesis

52

CHAPTER THREE METHODOLOGY
Methodology

53

Type of investigation

53

Population

53

Sample

53

Instruments of Investigation

55

Data Collection

55

Analysis and Data Interpretation

56

Data Analysis

56

Results

58

Hypothesis Test

68

CHAPTER FOUR CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
Conclusions

69

Recommendations

71

CHAPTER FIVE PROPOSAL

Description

72

Objectives

73

Feasibility

73

Budget

74

Participants and Beneficiaries

74

ANEXXES
Resources
Timetable
Bibliography
Students Survey

6

INTRODUCTION

The present investigation was made in Guaranda (Bolivar  Ecuador), at the
Bolivars University on students of the first year of tourism career.

In the mentioned university about three years ago a particular phenomenon
is occurring; the tourism students are having some problems with the
English subject.

In the statistics of failures we found that 39 % of the students have only a
fair academic yield and the 87% of them do not posses writing abilities.

The results of this statistics call our special attention in order to analyze the
specific problems they have and propose a possible solution to the main
problem they have in their English learning process.

We found that the poor didactic material they have influence their lack of
writing ability, in addition the teachers are not well trained so the students
shows a considerable low grade of motivation during the class.
The thesis has been divided in five chapters as follow:
Chapter I (pp. 9 -16) states the problem identification as well as the problem
formulation, the variable operation, the objectives, the feasibility and the
justification.

7

Chapter II (pp. 17-52) presents a theoretical frame that deals the following
topics: generalities of linguistics skill, the integration of the linguistics skills
with the tourism career, the development of writing skill and the evaluation
of writing skill, also special topics of didactic material and motivation in the
teaching  learning process.

Chapter III (pp. 53 - 68) deals with investigation methodology, the kind of
investigation, a description of the population and lastly the sample and data
processing. Also displays the data analysis, results of the study and
conclusions and recommendations. In this chapter we also include our
alternative proposal that will help the tourism career students to develop and
evaluate by them selves their English writing ability with practical exercises
according to their specialization and level of learning.

Chapter IV (pp. 69 - 70) consists of conclusions and recommendations
about the investigation already made.

Chapter V (pp 72  74) describes the structure of the alternative proposal.

This thesis has the main objective to describe how relevant is the
appropriate didactic material to develop specific linguistics skills.

8

CHAPTER 1
1. REASEARCH PROBLEM
1.1.

Problem identification

In the educational area of teaching English language, the basics habits of
reading and writing in the learning process are fundamental because, while
one is reading one is learning; consequently when one is writing making
work class, summaries, and etc- also is learning. Once the student has
acquired the basics skills, the complex skills or abilities start to be
developed as the capability of learn new information to structure in the brain
in a coherent and organized way, or the capability to express what we know
or feel in an appropriate mode.

Bearing in mind what is exposed above; we want to focus a problem that is
given on the first year of tourism career students at the Bolivar University,
the students have deficiencies in the English language communicative skills
principally they do not posses writing abilities.

As well three years ago a particular phenomenon is occurring; the students
of tourism career have problems with English subject, in the statistics of
failures we found that 39% of the students have only a fair academic yield
and the 87% of the students do not posses writing abilities.

We have observed that the teachers just use photocopies of writing
exercises from any books without planning, if there is not a planning the
teacher have not established teaching objectives.

The students are similar to passengers of a boat without a steering wheel;
the students receive their photocopies and solve the exercises but we
observed that most of the students do not know what they are doing, and
what this exercises are for.
9

We ask to some of them what will they do if they found a job in a hotel and
the boss ask them to make an apology letter for a American customer who
just speak in English, they just do not know what to do. This gives us a
reference of the problems incidence in the future, we suppose, the failures
of the students will increase or at least keep in the same percentage. On the
other hand the students who approve the career will have a poor
performance as professionals, in this area they have to face many situations
where they will have to be so skilled in writing, for example, they have to
take notes, they have to write tourism offerings, they have to check in or out
the guest and many other situations.

The teachers are not aware how important is to develop writing skill on
students due to the fact that writing involves different kind of mental
process.

As we investigate this phenomenon we determine that this issue mere our
attention and analyze, other universities are worried for this problem. In the
Bolivar University we found that the main cause for their deficiencies in
writing is due to the lack of a didactic material. Then we want to propose the
design a basic booklet with objectives, main concepts, and applicative
exercises for the students.

The students are worried about their obtained grades on English Language
subject and by the incidence of this problem on their future performance as
professionals while the teachers are not satisfied with those results and by
the methodology they are using in order to succeed the English language
objectives. Furthermore they are worried about the lack of appropriate
didactic material to help the students to develop their skills, in this case the
writing skill.

In this situation emerge the need to propose some solution that let provoke
important changes in this area.

10

Finally we circumscribe the research work defining the field as follows:


Place: State University of Bolivar



Level: College education



Study Area: English Language



Human Group: Students from the Tourism and Hostelry career,
first year



Period: 2005-2006



Instruments: survey, questionnaire, test.

Indicators



Lack of students writing ability



Students

statistics

of

89%
fair 39%

academic yield in the last 3 years

Causes



Uninterested students

78%



Unskilled teachers

68%



Not appropriate learning material

90%



Not feeding

60%



Inappropriate Methodologies and 80%
techniques

Effects



Not good study habits

56%



Not training courses for teachers

75%



Students do not posses writing 87%
61%

abilities.


Statistics of students failures in
the last 3 years.

98%



Unmotivated students

78%



Lack of teaching abilities

11

"Our language is indissolubly bound to our humanity. To be a human being
is to use a language, and to speak it is to be a person. So comments Lewis
Thomas in the Lives of a Cell (1974, p. 89).

The economical and social development will demand the employment of
skilled professionals who can master at least two languages as well as they
are very efficient in communication; also we do not forget that writing is a
very important issue in this field.

It is evident that the universities should facilitate the learning of this
language to students who lead and manage tourist companies in our
country; moreover if it is to lend their services to people that tour in our
country and who leave big quantities of money because tourism is
considered as the second item here in Ecuador, after petroleum, in regard
to revenues that feed on the economy of the country.

Unfortunately, in our country and especially in our province a problem is that
the University of Bolvar does not satisfy the expectations outlined in its
projects of the tourism career.

The globalized world requires professionals that master English as a daily
language and, even more the students of tourism who compulsorily will
have to meet the requirements and to be related with foreigners who speak
up to three languages, among them English.

The students of first year of the Career of Tourism facilitate our research,
because we know about their deficiencies in the skills of the English
language after having obtained their grades.

In consequence, the specific problem is: In our province the students of first
year of the School of Tourism of the University of Bolvar, do not possess
writing abilities. Thus, their academic yield leaves a lot to desire in this area
for the learning of the English language. Their performance as students is

12

poor and their performance as professional will also be poor, which implies
a possible lost of job.

If the students are not qualified and they do not improve their English
learning, they will not be able to act as competent professionals.

Briefly, we conclude that the main cause of these failures specially in
English writing,

is the lack of a pedagogic material that fulfils the

expectations of the students of this important career of tourism; not only for
their personal development but also as an economic contribution for the
province exaltation.

1.2. Problem Formulation

THE UNEFFICIENT WRITING ABILITY OF THE STUDENTS IS CAUSED
BY THE LACK OF APPROPRIATE DIDACTIC MATERIAL.

1.3. Variable operation

1.3.1 Variable
 Skill of English writing
 Didactic Material


Teaching training courses



Students motivation

13

1.3.2 Variables operation

VARIABLE

Concept

Dimensions

Sub
dimensi
ons(Indi
cators)

Writing

Symbols, the art, practice,

skill

style

or

form

of



literary

composition



Students

skill High

level.

Medium

Teachers

Low

materials.
Didactic

All the tangible media used

Material

for applying any teaching -



learning process, in order to



reinforce



Efficiency Impact High
on the students.
Medium
Audio  visual.
Low
Texts, booklets.



The

or

integrate

knowledge or skills
Teaching

Process

and

method

to

training

training someone in teaching

courses

abilities,

dealing with the problems;



global High
media of the
Medium
students grades.
Low
Methods.

methods and

of



Procedures.

to



Students

field

of

study

theories

teaching and learning
Students

The

techniques

motivation increase

or

used

awake

students stimulus

the

behavior

in the

High
and

partaking during Medium

teaching process

the lessons.


Teachers
students
interaction.

14

and Low

1.4. OBJECTIVES

1.4.1. General


To analyze how the inappropriate learning material affects writing
skill in the students of the 1st year in the Career of Tourism.

1.4.2. Specific


To establish correct writing techniques according to their need
and level of knowledge.



To determine the didactic material contents that let the students to
interact with the real language.



To set up evaluation methods specifically focused on writing skill
in order to let the students to be aware of their failures and
success.

1.5. Feasibility

This research will be made, in Guaranda city, at the Bolivar University, on
first year students of Tourism School.

This first year of the tourism school is suitable to carry out our research
because the students from this year are beginners and unskilled, they do
not have appropriate didactic material, and according to the study program
they have for this career; the development of the writing skill is very crucial.

Due to this our research has the purpose to analyze how the inappropriate
learning material affects the writing skill development on students of
Tourism and Hostelry.

15

Trough the analysis we will determine the writing skill level of the students;
also the teachers performance and ability in their techniques and teaching
methods.

We expect as a result of the carried out analysis applied to students and
teachers will let us to elaborate a manual that strength the deficient
students writing skill. Besides, we expect the design of the manual will
increase the motivation in the students.

1.6. Justification

The diffusion of English in our country and in the whole world has been
unquestionable. There from the references made by Dr. Alicia Pousada
from the English Department of the University of Humanities from Puerto
Rico, (Ro Piedras) are right. Today English is considered as a world
language (Brutt-Griffler 2002), and is promoted globally as the language
used for science, technology, business and diplomacy.

The present research will be centred in the analysis of the writing skill
development considered of great importance in the relationship that the
students of tourism establish with people that visit our country. We hope by
means of the alternative proposal to be developed to contribute to a more
practical English teaching adapted to our reality in order to stimulate the
students by having a dynamic and pleasant material. In consequence, the
contribution of our work is methodological, as it will help in the process of
developing the writing skill of the English language, because of motivating
English teachers to use techniques which avail the didactic resource
executed in the alternative proposal.

16

CHAPTER 2
THEORETICAL FRAME
2.1. LINGUISTIC SKILLS
Basic concepts
In the process of teaching a language the concepts of four basics language
skills have long used:


Listening



Speaking



Reading



Writing

The four basic skills are related to each other by two parameters:


The mode of communication: Oral or written



The direction of communication: receiving or producing the
message.

The relationships among the skills we could represent in the following chart
for an easy understanding:

Direction

Oral

Written

Receptive

Listening

Reading

Productive

Speaking

Writing

17

2.1.1. Listening:
Listening comprehension is the receptive skill in the oral mode. When we
speak of listening what we really mean is listening and understanding what
we hear.

In our first language, we have all the skills and background knowledge we
need to understand what we hear, so we probably are not even aware of
how complex a process it is. Here we will briefly describe some of what is
involved in learning to understand what we hear in a second language.

Listening Situations

There are two kinds of listening situations in which we find ourselves:


interactive, and



Non-interactive.

Interactive listening situations include face-to-face conversations and
telephone calls, in which we are alternately listening and speaking, and in
which we have a chance to ask for clarification, repetition, or slower speech
from our conversation partner. Some non-interactive listening situations are
listening to the radio, TV, films, lectures, or sermons. In such situations we
usually do not have the opportunity to ask for clarification, slower speech or
repetition.

18

Micro-skills

Richards (1983, cited in Omaggio, 1986, p. 126) proposes that the following
are the micro-skills involved in understanding what someone says to us.
The listener has to:


retain chunks of language in short-term memory



discriminate among the distinctive sounds in the new language



Recognize stress and rhythm patterns, tone patterns, intonational
contours.



recognize reduced forms of words



distinguish word boundaries



recognize typical word-order patterns



recognize vocabulary



detect key words, such as those identifying topics and ideas



guess meaning from context



recognize grammatical word classes



recognize basic syntactic patterns



recognize cohesive devices



detect sentence constituents, such as subject, verb, object,
prepositions, and the like

2.1.2. SPEAKING:

Speaking is the productive skill in the oral mode. It, like the other skills, is
more complicated than it seems at first and involves more than just
pronouncing words.

19

Speaking Situations

There are three kinds of speaking situations in which we find ourselves:


interactive,



partially interactive, and



non-interactive

Interactive speaking situations include face-to-face conversations and
telephone calls, in which we are alternately listening and speaking, and in
which we have a chance to ask for clarification, repetition, or slower speech
from our conversation partner. Some speaking situations are partially
interactive, such as when giving a speech to a live audience, where the
convention is that the audience does not interrupt the speech. The speaker
nevertheless can see the audience and judge from the expressions on their
faces and body language whether or not he or she is being understood.

Some few speaking situations may be totally non-interactive, such as when
recording a speech for a radio broadcast.

Micro-skills

Here are some of the micro-skills involved in speaking. The speaker has to:


Pronounce the distinctive sounds of a language clearly enough so
that people can distinguish them. This includes making tonal
distinctions.

20



Use stress and rhythmic patterns, and intonation patterns of the
language clearly enough so that people can understand what is said.



Use the correct forms of words. This may mean, for example,
changes in the tense, case, or gender.



Put words together in correct word order.



Use vocabulary appropriately.



Use the register or language variety that is appropriate to the
situation and the relationship to the conversation partner.



Make clear to the listener the main sentence constituents, such as
subject, verb, object, by whatever means the language uses.



Make the main ideas stand out from supporting ideas or information.



Make the discourse hang together so that people can follow what you
are saying.

2.1.3. READING

Reading is the receptive skill in the written mode. It can develop
independently of listening and speaking skills, but often develops along with
them, especially in societies with a highly-developed literary tradition.
Reading can help build vocabulary that helps listening comprehension at the
later stages, particularly.

Micro-skills

Here are some of the micro-skills involved in reading. The reader has to:


Decipher the script. In an alphabetic system or a syllabary, this
means establishing a relationship between sounds and symbols. In a
21

pictograph system, it means associating the meaning of the words
with written symbols.


Recognize vocabulary.



Pick out key words, such as those identifying topics and main ideas.



Figure out the meaning of the words, including unfamiliar vocabulary,
from the (written) context.



Recognize grammatical word classes: noun, adjective, etc.



Detect sentence constituents, such as subject, verb, object,
prepositions, etc.



Recognize basic syntactic patterns.



Reconstruct and infer situations, goals and participants.



Use both knowledge of the world and lexical and grammatical
cohesive devices to make the foregoing inferences, predict
outcomes, and infer links and connections among the parts of the
text.



Get the main point or the most important information.



Distinguish the main idea from supporting details.



Adjust reading strategies to different reading purposes, such as
skimming for main ideas or studying in-depth.

2.1.4. WRITING:

Writing is the productive skill in the written mode. It is also,

more

complicated than it seems at first, and often seems to be the hardest of the
skills, even for native speakers of a language, since it involves not just a
graphic representation of speech, but the development and presentation of
thoughts in a structured way.
22

Micro-skills

Here are some of the micro-skills involved in writing. The writer needs to:


Use orthography correctly, including the script, and spelling and
punctuation conventions.



Use the correct forms of words. This may mean using forms that
express the right tense, or case or gender.



Put words together in correct word order.



Use vocabulary correctly.



Use the style appropriate to the genre and audience.



Make the main sentence constituents, such as subject, verb, and
object, clear to the reader.



Make the main ideas distinct from supporting ideas or information.



Make the text coherent, so that other people can follow the
development of the ideas.



Judge how much background knowledge the audience has on the
subject and make clear what it is assumed they don not know.

2.1.4.1 Concepts
Writing, in its most common sense, is the preservation of and the preserved
text on a medium, with the use of signs or symbols. In that regard, it is to be
distinguished from illustrating such as cave drawings and paintings on the
one hand, and recorded speech such as tape recordings and movies, on the
other. Writing was first invented by the ancient Mesopotamians.

23

Writing, more particularly, refers to two activities: writing as a noun, the thing
that is written; and writing as the verb, designates the activity of writing. It
refers to the inscription of characters on a medium, thereby forming words,
and larger units of language, known as texts. It also refers to the creation of
meaning and the information thereby. In that regard, linguistics (and related
sciences) distinguishes between the written language and the spoken
language. The significance of the medium by which meaning and
information is conveyed is indicated by the distinction that is made in the
arts and sciences; for example, in speech, or speaking: public speaking is a
distinctly different activity, as is poetry reading; the former is governed by
the rules of rhetoric, while the latter by poetics.

The person who composes a text is generally styled a writer, or an author.
However, more specific designations exist, which are dictated by the
particular nature of the text; for example, poet, essayist, novelist, and the list
go on.

Writing is also a distinctly human activity. It has been said that a monkey,
randomly typing away on a typewriter (in the days when typewriters
replaced the pen or plume as the preferred instrument of writing) could recreate Shakespeare-- but only if it lived long enough (this is known as the
infinite monkey theorem). Such writing has been speculatively designated
as coincidental. It is also speculated that extra-terrestrial beings exist who
may possess writing. The fact is, however, that the only known writing is
human writing.

Writing also presupposes, at a minimum, three other activities.

24

Letter and word recording used to presuppose penmanship, and in earlier
times, there were professional scribes who were especially talented in that
regard. In more recent times, a new requirement emerged - the skill of
typing. But today, one-, or two-fingered typing is sufficient, though
inefficient, a new skill is presupposed, though not necessary: the knowledge
of dedicated software, such as WordPerfect, and Word. The elements of
such writing are, of course, the letters of the alphabet and the alphanumeric
character set included within the standardized ASCII family of signs or
symbols. When appearance factors such as legibility and aesthetics of the
words are of greater concern, graphic design-related letter and word
recording skills such as typography and typesetting may be required.

The next skill required is the ability to spell words, or significant knowledge
of the contents of a dictionary, and the rules of grammar. However, with the
advent of the computer a useful new tool has emerged, the so-called spell
check, which automatically checks, and, or, corrects, often both spelling and
grammatical mistakes and errors. But even the best program can not find all
errors, so spelling is still an important skill.

But the most important skill in writing is considered to be talent, which is
believed to be an inborn ability. Nevertheless, courses and schools exist
which, if they do not promise to teach one how to become a writer, at least
are recognized as being able to improve one's technical skills on the road to
improving one's writing ability1.

1

http://www.wikimediafoundation.org/

25

2.1.4.2. A linguistic of writing
 When we write, we use graphic symbols that are letters or
combination of letters which relate to the sounds we make when we
speak. On one level, then writing can be said to be the act of forming
these symbols making marks on a flat surface of some kind. But
writing is clearly much more that the production of sounds. The
symbols have to be arranged, according to certain connections, to
form words, and words have to be arranged to form sentences,
although again we can be said to be writing if we are merely making
list of words, as in inventories of items such as shopping list. As a
rule, however we do not write just one sentence or even a number of
unrelated sentences. We produce a sequence of sentences arranged
in a particular order and linked together in certain ways. The
sequence may be very short perhaps only two or three sentences 
but, because the way the sentences have been put in order and
linked together, they form a coherent whole. They form what we may
call a text.

Writing involves the encoding if a message of some kind: that is,
we translate our thought into language. Reading involves the
decoding or interpretation of this message2.

2

Don Byrne

26

2.1.4.3. SPECIFIC DEVELOPMENT OF WRITING SKILL

First of all, if we talk about the development of writing, it is necessary to
focus in the purpose of writing.

In real life normally everybody has a reason for writing and we write to or for
somebody. These are factors which have often bee neglected in teaching
and practising writing. Yet is easy to devise situations which allow students
to write purposefully: for example: they can write to one another in the
classroom or use writing in role-play situations.

Although, like fluency writing, this approach does not solve specific
problems which the students have when handling the written language, it
does motivate them to write and shows how writing is a form of
communication

Even though some writing schemes and programmes have tended to rely
largely or exclusively on one or other of these approaches, in practice most
teachers and textbook writers have drawn one or more then one and have
combined and modified them to suit their purpose.

In recent years classroom methodology has been heavily influenced by the
communicative approach, with its emphasis on task-oriented activities that
involve, where possible, the exchange of information and free use of
language, without undue concern for mistakes. Receptive skills are also
given more prominence and students are exposed to a wide range of
spoken and writing language. A good deal of recommended writing practice
directly reflects the main concern of this approach, although in practice both
teachers

and

textbook

writers

deal

with

the

classroom

situation

pragmatically and therefore retain a good deal of controlled practice. In
general, however, attention is paid to motivation and there is usually some
room for self expression, even at the lower levels.

27

No less interesting and significant are some of the side effects of the
communicative approach. For example:
 Students get more opportunities to read (and also to read more
interesting and naturally written texts) and this kind of exposure to he
written language is beneficial to writing.
 Learners are encouraged to interact and the activities required for
this often involve writing ( e.g. questionnaires, quizzes, etc) Many of
these activities involve an element of fun, so that the students often
enjoy writing (without perhaps realising it)
 Students are encouraged to work together in pairs and groups and to
share writing tasks. This removes the feeling of isolation which
bothers many learners.

In spits of these advances, however, writing skills are still relatively
neglected in many courses. Objectives are rarely spelt out as they are for
oral work and there is an overall lack of guidance for the systematic
development of written ability. It is likely, therefore, that many teachers will
need to look for ways of supplementing their course books if they want their
students become proficient in writing. This in any case, will always be
necessary, as with oral work, when trying to meet the individual needs of
certain groups of students.

In view of many difficulties with which the students are faced in learning how
to write a foreign language, the fundamental principle of guiding them in
various ways towards a mastery writing skills and sometimes controlling
what they write, is no one we can lightly dismiss, even if the principle has to
some extent been misapplied (for example to eliminate mistakes). Rather
we should give them particularly in relation to the various problems they
have when they witting.

28

On a linguistic level, since our aim is to develop their ability to write a text,
one way of helping the students and therefore of providing guidance, is by
using the text as our basic format to practice, even in the early stages.
While this does not rule out some sort of sentence practice, which may be
necessary for mastery of certain types of compound and complex sentence
structure, best practiced through writing because they are most commonly
used in writing we do not need to build into the writing programme a stepby-step approach which will take the learners in easy stages from sentences
practice to the introduction of a text. With the text as our basic format for
practice we can teach within its framework all the rhetorical devices 
logical, grammatical and lexical  which the learners need to master. While
we must be careful not to overwhelm them with too many difficulties at any
one time, there is not apparent justification for attempting to separate
features of the written language which go naturally together.
By using texts (letters and reports, for example even dialogues in the early
stages) as our basic practice format, rather than some other unit such as
the sentences or even the paragraph, we can make writing activities much
more meaningful for the students and thereby in crease their motivation to
write well. The text provides a setting within which they can practice, for
example,

sentence

completion,

sentence

combination,

paragraph

construction, etc, in relation to longer stretches of discourse. In this way
they can see not only why they are writing but also write in a manner to the
communicative goal of the text.

This, then, is one way of helping the learners: by making writing tasks more
realistic, by relating practice to a specific purpose instead of asking them to
write simply for the sake of writing. In order to find out contexts to written
work, we shall also need to explore opportunities for integrating it effectively
with the other classroom activities evolving not only reading but also
speaking and listening. Writing tends to get relegated to the level of
exercises partly because it is treated as a compendium to the lesson rather
than as a worthwhile learning activity in itself. While it is convenient, as we

29

have acknowledged being able to set written work as homework and while
writing may not come very high on the list of priorities, this does not mean
that it cannot take its place as part of natural sequence of learning activities.

2.1.4.4. The writing activity

A writing activity, for example, can drive in a natural way from some prior
activity such as a conversation or something read. As in real life, it can be
the consequence of a certain situation. We see an advertisement for a job,
for example, which involves reading. We talk about it and perhaps phone up
about it, which involves speaking and listening. We then decide to apply for
the job which involve writing. Although perhaps, we cannot completely
integrate writing with other activities without a radical change in material
design, there is much we can do to relate it more effectively to other
classroom activities: for example, by extending the context which we have
set up for oral work, through simple role  play activities, to provide a
meaningful setting for writing activities as well. In this way we can hope to
overcome some of these difficulties which the learners have with role
projection for writing tasks.
So far we looked at guidance in terms of what kind of framework  linguistic
and contextual  we can provide in order to make writing tasks more
purposeful Rather than in terms of the actual support we can give the
students in order to ensure they complete their tasks with reasonable
success. Since the major part of this book is concerned with an exploration
of the various techniques and procedures we can use, at this stage we shall
only stress that we need a whole range of techniques, each appropriate to
specific goals and needs. Variety is important, as in oral work. This is
essential for the sake of interest: the learners get bored if they are
constantly asked to perform the same type of tasks. But other significant
factors techniques are effective for developing particular writing skills. For
example, texts (read or heard) provide the right sort of context for note 
taking: they not only lead on to meaningful writing tasks but also provide a
model for the kind of writing expected.
30

Visual material on the other hand, properly used provides an open-ended
framework for writing activities than is often assumed. Particular kinds of
visual material such as diagrams and tables are valuable for developing
organizational skills. Clearly, then our approach should be as eclectics
possible, using those forms of guidance which are appropriate to different
kinds of writing at different levels of attainment.

One thing that needs special emphasis however is that guidance should not
imply tight control over what the learner write. If, for example, we accept that
errors in speech are not only inevitable but are also a natural part of
learning a language, then we should accept that they will occur, and to
some extent should be allowed to occur , in writing too. Unless the learners
are given opportunities to write that they want to write, they will never learn
these skills. As in speech, when we provide opportunities for free
expressions, errors will occur, but this is a situation which e must accept.
Perhaps it is largely our attitude towards these errors that is wrong because
they occur in writing, we feel that they must be corrected, whereas in
speech, perhaps because it is more transient, we are inclined to be more
tolerant.

This is far from suggesting that free expressions are the solution to learning
to write: on the contrary, the learners have need of guidance, as the do with
oral work. They must also be encouraged to look critically at what hey write
and thought to draft, correct and rewrite. But since no approach to teaching
writing has yet been devised which will take them smoothly from writing
under control to free expressions, it seems reasonable to provide some
opportunities for writing freely, even in the early stages, as we do for oral
work. This will not only enable us to see whether the students are making
any real progress; it will also ensure that they become learners rather than
leaners.

31

2.1.4.5. Development of the writing skills

It is important to keep in mind the need that the students have to develop
the writing skill, between their needs we can analyze some of them:

a. - Teach the learner how to write.

The ability to write is often assumed, especially if the students or learners
are mature, can write reasonably well in their mother tongue and have also
acquired some proficiency in the spoken language. But oral skills - both
listening and speaking- have to be taught, trough appropriate techniques
and through appropriate forms of practice since the spoken and writing
forms of the language are not the same and since writing is a different way
of communicating from speech, it follows that writing skills require special
teaching too.

b. - provide adequate and relevant experience of the written language.

We work on the principle that oral ability requires a form foundation in
listening and that the latter must be on a broader basis than speaking.
Similarly, writing has to be preceded and accompanied by wide exposure to
appropriate models of written language. If the learners have only seen
dialogues in their textbooks and narrative prose in theory readers, they
cannot be expected to produce other varieties of the written language
appropriate for example, to letters or reports.

c. - Show the students how the written language functions as a system
of communication.

Exposure to written form of the language by itself is not sufficient. The
learners also have to be made aware of how we communicate through the
written medium and how it differs from speech. In particular, they need to be
shown that any piece of writing, whether or not it is addressed to a specific
reader, has a communicative purpose. The need to understand, therefore,
32

how the resources of the written language are used to fulfil this purpose, by
establishing and maintaining contact with the reader in order to get ones
message across.

d. - Teach the student how to write texts.

We have already seen that writing, at least in any significant form involves
the ability to organise sentences into a coherent whole or text. Most writing
practice should reach those devices of the written language which are
needed to write various types of text. The practice of those devices should,
wherever possible, be within the framework of a text which has a definite
communicative goal, so that the learners see the purpose of what they are
writing. The learners must also be given opportunities to practice organising
there ideas to form acceptable paragraphs.

e. - Teach the learners how to write different kinds of texts.

The learners cannot be expected to master all the different varieties of the
written form of the language. Many of them, in any case, would not be
relevant to their needs, to the extent that these can be identified in a writing
programme. At the same time, it is not enough to try to teach them a kind of
neutral general purpose form of written expression. As in speech, they have
to some extent at least to be able to select an appropriate style, formal or
informal, depending on what they are writing about and who they are
addressing, and to be able to present this in an appropriate form, such as a
letter or a report. Although it cannot be said that is easy, many of the
difficulties which the learners have in this area arise because of the nature
of the writing tasks: for example, simply being asked to write a paragraph
out of context. Also this kind of task does not encourage them to think of
writing as communication. Likewise, it might be noted, our goal should not
be to teach different kinds of writing (such as narrative, descriptive,
expository and so on) but rather to see that these are practiced within the
wider context of a text. For example, a letter may involve some narration or

33

description, while a report might provide the setting for some expository
writing.

f. - Make writing realistic and relevant.

Often writing tasks lack reality for the learners because they do not give
them the feeling that they are writing to for or somebody. They are done
solely as a form of exercise for the benefit of the teacher, who reacts to
them more like a judge than a genuine reader. The use of text as the basic
format for practice is only part of the solution. We must also attempt to
identify those forms of writing which are most likely to be relevant to
learners needs, such as various types of personal communication (notes,
letters) and institutional communication (formal letters, reports) and to
establish classroom contexts for practicing them. This not rule the possibility
of other kinds of writing (for example, creative writing, such as stories,
although of course at a fairly low level) provided the motivation for this kind
of work can be established.

g. - Integrate writing with other skills.

Writing tends to be the Cinderella of the four skills (at least lower levels) and
is often relegated to the end of the teaching unit and used mainly for
homework. This is unlikely to make the learners want to write. Where
possible, we should introduce writing activities that lead naturally onto or
from the use of other skills, so that the learners see writing as a real activity.

h. - Use a variety of techniques and practice formats

This is important because the learners get bored with the same type of
activity (however worthy) Also, as we have seen, some techniques and
formats are appropriate to certain levels. For example, letter writing is
especially suitable for use in the early stages because it permits the
learners to make some use of the spoken forms of the language within a

34

new framework. We must also recognise that, in terms of developing writing
skills, we cannot be sure how effective any single technique is.

I. - Provide appropriate support.

We have already noted the importance of guidance and how broadly, it can
be interpreted in the writing programme in a variety of ways. It has been
argued that guidance should be tempered with opportunities for free
expression. We should remember, however, that writing tasks are generally
imposed and that the learners may not have either the relevant ideas, when
this involves some contribution on their part, or be sufficiently stimulated by
the tasks to think of them. The problem is further compounded by their
having to work on their own. Clearly there are many solutions to this
problem and they need to be explored in flexible way. In particular, however,
the use of techniques and procedures which have proved valuable for oral
work, such as a pair and group work, need to be examined within the
context of the writing programme. There seems no reason why, in the
classroom at least, writing need be a solitary activity.

Be sympathetic.

We have considered at length the many problems involved in writing and
these are freely acknowledge to prevail when we write in our mother tongue,
not only in a foreign language. Except in specialised programmes, heavily
weighted in favour of reading and writing skills, we cannot expect a high
level of proficiency. With the help of a programme which takes the learners
problems into account, we can hope to make writing a more rewarding
activity for them, both in terms of attainment and satisfaction. But we need
to surrender our role as judges, except when writing is being tested or
examined, and view what the learner write as attempts, however inadequate
to communicate. There is always a great temptation, perhaps a natural
inclination, to concentrate on what is wrong in a piece of writing, mainly
because, as we have already noted, it is there for us to read and reread. But

35

if we are to be truly readers rather that judge, we should perhaps look not so
much at what the learners have failed to achieve but rather at what they
have actually succeeded in doing.

2.1.4.5. WRITING FOR SPECIFIC PURPOSES
As our current world has entered the era of international communication and
advanced technology, there are more and more chances for engineers and
professionals to convey technical information in English for various
purposes. Therefore, besides learning general English as an international
language, engineering students of colleges and professionals need to be
equipped with adequate writing ability so that they can communicate
technical information clearly on at least a basic level. A good English writing
proficiency can be a contributing factor to their professional recognition and
career prospect.
Some college students may think that English writing is a very difficult task;
yet they can still write comprehensibly if they know how to apply the basic
grammar rules and make use of simple, concrete words. The ability to
express their ideas in clear and understandable English is something they
can acquire systematically.
Students today face a fast-changing job market and high competition with
the advancement of e-commerce as well as e-knowledge. It is evident that
English is the lingua-franca of almost all jobs available today, especially in
science and technology, business management and hotel industry. This
contemporary reality forced many students to open their eyes on what they
want to achieve in a language classroom.
In view of university graduates need of a good English Language command
in the workplace. Education at the university is a crucial stage because at
this level students are preparing themselves to enter into another phase of
their life that is their career, and therefore, they have certain expectations of
what they want to learn and achieve in their learning process.

36

Developing writing skills is among the most challenging situation at tertiary
level. According to Raimes,  research in the writing of college ESL
students, however, is still at the beginning stage and researches in ESL
writing has not provided us with universally accepted theoretical and
practical answer (1985: 16). Therefore, research in the area of writing
especially at tertiary level should be encouraged. The need to develop the
skill is crucial due to the rapid change and development of the job market
that requires graduates to acquire certain level of writing skills.
Besides that, the widespread use of computers and the Internet have
dramatically raised the profile of writing and the need for effective
communication. In a case study conducted by Warschauer (2001) that
involved an ESL writing course in Hawaii, one of the students in the course
(a graduate from China) had problems writing business letters and even
short memos and notices. At the time of the enrolment, he listed the writing
skills he crucially needed and they were all job related written
communication. Keeping this in view, it is felt that writing courses offered at
university level should target on skills related to job needs and job functions
to ensure that the learners are well equipped with the required writing skills
in order for them to perform at the workplaces.
Writing is a social practice in that writing and the writer are implicated in
discourse and institutional practices. In EAP (English as a Specific
Purposes), from elementary school through university graduate courses,
students write to succeed in mastering the subject matter. Academic writing
ranges from sentences to short paragraphs to essays and even research
papers. In brief, EOP (English for Occupational Purposes) writing is more
concerned with the content and format while EAP focuses more on writing
techniques such as process and development of ideas and logic. In an EOP
context, emphasizing the difference in writing purposes and the resultant
text structure are crucial in order to match the needs of the workplace
skills. Furthermore, according to Baynham (1995: 4),  to characterize the
knowledge and skills of a fluent writer, the need to emphasize the dimension
of the required met linguistic must exist. For example, the awareness of the
37

different types of texts as well as the pragmatics is an important
dimension. Thus, in ESP context, the pragmatics and types of texts have to
be explicit and narrowed. The interests and needs of the learners are
necessary for them to realize the significance in acquiring the skill. In many
EOP studies and modules, the needs analysis leads to a well structured and
organized program.
Research was conducted by Sidy (1999) to examine the relevance of
freshman composition to writing in the workplace. Four professionals who
had graduated from college for several years were asked about their writing
in the workplace, college, writing classes and the importance of skills
employers expected. The results indicated that:
 All participants felt that effective workplace writing must be jobrelated, concise and clear,


All participants have negative attitudes towards the writing classes
they had because there is a vast mismatch with the job expectation.

In general, the findings from this research suggest that the participants
could not relate what they did in the freshman writing classes to the types of
writing they have to do in the workplace.
Philips and Powers (1999) surveyed 200 public relation practitioners in
Canada to investigate the type of writing varieties involved in their
profession. The result indicated that the practitioners spent a lot of time
writing memos, reports and proposals. The survey was also used to find out
whether writing efficiency comes with writing experience and among the
findings are:
a. writers improve their text from time to time,
b. they write better for work-related writings, and
c. they show evidence of becoming good and better writers through the
end product quality.3
3

Anthony, L. (1997). ESP: What does it mean?

38

2.2.

INTEGRATION

OF

THE

LINGUISTIC

SKILLS

TO

THE

TOURISM CAREER.
2.2.1. CHARACTERISTIC

Effective English language and interpersonal skills are now an essential job
requirement in the hotel and tourism industries. In a global working
environment where employees are in constant contact with each other and
the public, the ability to use English skills is an absolutely necessary.

Reading and writing skills are so important to be developed when
performing work-related tasks such as:

1. Travel programs, types of offers, travel contracts
2. Information and transportation and hotel services
3. Making and receiving reservations
4. Methods of payment
5. Providing information on topics of interest for tourists
6. Tourism brochures
7. Tourism boards: local tourist offices, consortia, etc.
8. The market of tourist products
9. Tour operators and organized tours
10. Tourism marketing
11. National work contracts

Then take into consideration the topics above, the goals of the English
programme must satisfy the students needs in their professional

39

performance as well the objectives must to content the training of specific
skills that the students have to master in order to attain the goals. For
instance if the students must design a tourism brochure (as a goal) he have
to learn (as objectives) specific vocabulary, grammar tense and imperatives,
the students have to use formal language expression and so on.

In conclusion the integration of the linguistics skills must have specific
objectives that can achieve the program goals which involve the students
needs.

2.3. WRITING SKILL EVALUATION

2.3.1. PRINCIPLES

Some specialists propose that the evaluation should be realistic and
coherent with the contents and objectives of the course as well as the
different learning strategies that the students have, they present some
principles as the following ones:
 Evaluation should be an integral part of the teaching-learning
process. Evaluation provides students with evidence of what they
have learned and it provides teachers with the necessary feedback
indicating whether or not instructional objectives are being met.
 Evaluation should take place in the context of meaningful activities
which are congruent with the way in which students are taught.
 The percentage of the mark allotted to each of the four skill areas
should correspond to the amount of time that the students spend on
the respective areas. For example, students spending 70% of their
time doing listening comprehension and oral production activities
should be evaluated accordingly.

40

 When choosing learning objectives and evaluation strategies the
teacher should take into consideration the individual needs of the
student.
 Evaluation should focus on the development of communicative and
linguistic competence.
 Tests should relate to real-life situations. Since the program is based
on a communicative approach, then this should be reflected in the
tests.
 Tests should measure what they say they are measuring. For
example, if students are doing a listening comprehension exercise
and have to write down specific information, they should be marked
on whether or not they understood and found the information rather
than on whether or not the information was spelled correctly.
 The teacher should use a variety of assessment techniques that
clearly reflect this communicative, learner-centered and activitybased approach to second language acquisition. There is a wide
range of

assessment techniques to choose from including

observation checklists, rating scales, self and peer evaluation,
anecdotal reports, communicative tests, etc.
 Evaluation should be based on the English Language curriculum
objectives; in general, the teacher will use foundational objectives for
summative

evaluation

and

learning

objectives

for

formative

evaluation.
 Evaluation should be fair and equitable. It should be sensitive to
family, classroom, school, and community situations; it should be
free of bias. Students should be given opportunities to demonstrate
the extent of their knowledge, understandings, skills and attitudes.
41

 Evaluation should provide positive and effective feedback for
students. If students are to become life-long second language
learners, they will need to appreciate feedback and use it to improve
their language development.
 Students should have a clear understanding of the types of
evaluation procedures that will take place throughout the unit.


The criteria involved in the evaluation of the experiential goal should
be determined by both students and teacher. Students should
comprehend early in the unit the elements that will be required to
complete the experiential goal. 4

2.3.2. METHODS OF EVALUATING WRITING

It is well known about the principal type methods of evaluation as:
diagnostic evaluation, formative evaluation and summative evaluation.
Although, to emphasize the context of the study into consideration is
necessary to focus the attention on formative evaluation. Formative
evaluation is used for writing improvement. It produces information which
instructors can use for writing improvement during a course. The instructor
is in control of how and when the evaluation occurs, and the method of
eliciting feedback can be crafted to match the needs of the course.
The methods of formative evaluation include:


Preparing specific developing skill test



Information from Yourself: evaluating your own teaching to help you
become aware of what is going on in class.

4

Student Evaluation: A Teacher Handbook, Saskatchewan Education, (1991)

42

2.3.3. TECHNIQUES

TECHNIQUES

LEVEL:

BEGINNERS

STRATEGIES

PURPOSES
Help students to expand their usage

Sentence Transformation

skills trough testing various ways of
stating the same idea
It lets show different sources of

Gap-filling with cue word given

lexical activation during sentence
comprehension

Gap-filing with out cue word
given
Gap-filling with picture prompts
Labelling pictures showing
action

This technique allows the student to
activate his previous knowledge in
practical exercises.
It allows the students to develop
their mental process ability
The students makes a relation
between the word with the action,
useful to test verbs concepts
The students can really analyze their

Making sentences based on
word prompts

writers focus in order to develop
their own creativity and they could
take decision of what to write as in a
free style

43

TECHNIQUES

LEVEL:

ADVANCED

STRATEGIES
Informal/formal letters

PURPOSES
It builds up on students the formal
written communication
It familiarize the students with the

Filling in forms

common forms used un different
context at work

Postcards

Messages

Applicable to practice description of
interesting places in a friendly way
Elicit main idea, and write down
important words for the message
Expands the students ability to

Articles for magazines

express their thoughts and
knowledge of a specific topic.

Applications

Autobiographies/CVs, letters to
magazines

Familiarize the students with the
forms and appropriate
Let the students to use appropriate
vocabulary in different
circumstances

2.3.4. OBJECTIVES OF WRITING EVALUATION
Writing skill evaluation objectives let the teacher determines:


the efficiency of the instructional material



the methods application



the learning progress



the students performance in writing skill



the ability to produce different kinds of texts



the students creativity
44

2.4. DIDACTIC MATERIAL

2.4.1. CHARACTERISTICS
Didactic materials enable learners to interact with the real language in its
form. Learners feel that they are learning a target language as it is used
outside the classroom. Considering this, it may not be wrong to say that at
any level didactic materials should be used to complete the gap between
the competency and performance of the language learners, which is a
common problem among the nonnative speakers. This requires the
language patterns being put into practice in real life situations. Since
learning about a culture is not accepting it and the role of the culture in the
materials is just to create learner interest towards the target language, there
should be a variety of culture in the materials.

2.4.2. Definitions



As didactic material we understand all those means and resources
that facilitate the teaching-learning process, within an educational
context, and that are good to stimulate the senses and to be able to
accede more easily to the information, as well as to acquire abilities
and skills, attitudes and values. 5



Didactic material refers to those means and resources that facilitate
the teaching and learning, within an educational context, stimulating
the function of the senses to accede in an easy way to the acquisition
of concepts, abilities, attitudes and skills. 6

5

FAUSTO ANBAL AGUILERA AYALA, Tcnicas de Estudio A Distancia y Presencial. nica edicin 2001

Pag. 26, 27, 28

6

http://es.wikipedia.org/wikiMaterialdid%C3%A1ctico

45



Didactic Material refers to any kind of material that has been used to
facilitate the students their learning process. Teacher should be
creative to decide whether the instructional material can use or not in
teaching process or to teach students. Realia material is a good
teaching aid. Instructional Materials include textbooks, handouts,
worksheets, video and audio tapes, computer software and visual
aids. They influence the content and the procedures of learning.
We use instructional material as a resource for ideas and activities for
learning, as a source of language, for support in learning, as a
stimulus or motivation for students and a record of learning.
At the beginning of this century, the answer might have been simply
textbooks and workbooks. Today, however, the range of broadened
considerably, including paperback novels, magazines, computer
software, videotapes and much more.

Note:
The definitions of didactic materials are slightly different in literature. Rogers
(1988) defines them as 'appropriate' and 'quality' in terms of goals,
objectives, learner needs and interest and 'natural' in terms of real life.
Didactic material is significant since it increases students' motivation for
learning.

2.4.3. ADVANTAGES TO USE APPROPIATE DIDACTIC MATERIAL

The main advantages of using didactic materials are:


They have a positive effect on learner motivation.



They provide authentic cultural information.



They provide exposure to real language.



They relate more closely to learners ' needs.



They support a more creative approach to teaching.



There are many advantages of using instructional material. These
include the context you can bring in immediately relevant stuff, you
46

can target learning styles, it gives lessons a personal touch, and
students may appreciate it and enhance teacher creativity.
We can claim that learners feel that they are learning. This is what makes
us excited and willing to use didactic materials in our classrooms, but while
using them, it is inevitable that we face some problems7.

2.4.4. Using didactic materials

Using didactic materials is one of the mainstays of an imaginative and
motivating higher level course, but rarely features at levels lower than
intermediate. There are several reasons for this, primarily a kind of fear that
students will panic when faced with language that is largely unfamiliar, and
a feeling that to prevent this the language should be edited to the students'
level. This is an unnecessary fear, as using authentic materials can be
rewarding and stimulating for both teacher and students.
2.4.4.1. Sources
When people first think of didactic materials they usually assume that we
are talking about newspaper and magazine articles. However, the term can
also encompass such things as songs, web pages, radio & TV broadcasts,
films, leaflets, flyers, posters, indeed anything written in the target language
and used unedited in the classroom.

The materials used, will of course, depend on the 'usual' factors:

7



topic



target Language area



skills



students needs and interests

(Philips and Shettlesworth 1978; Clarke 1989; Peacock 1997, cited in Richards, 2001

47

It's no good trying to get your students fascinated by a text on the latest art
movie if they are all fans of action films. You might as well save your time
and energy and just use the text book!
2.4.4.2. Are didactic materials not too difficult?

Yes they are, but that is the point! Your text, written or recorded, is likely to
be too hard, even, in some cases, for advanced students. The trick,
regardless of the text used, is not to edit and grade the text, but to grade the
task according to your students' abilities. This is for three reasons: most
importantly, it reflects the kind of situation your students may face in an
English speaking environment, it saves you time and energy (more of an
added bonus than a reason) and lastly it encourages and motivates your
students when they can 'conquer' a real text.
2.4.4.3. An example
The same text could be used in a variety of different ways. Let us take a
tourist information leaflet. This kind of authentic material has the added
advantage that it can be easily and swiftly ordered for free and in multiple
copies from tourist boards and agencies. This also removes issues of
copyright, which is a common problem of using authentic materials and
should be checked depending on your particular situation. (Some countries
allow a small number of copies to be made for educational purposes, but
this can vary).


With a little pre-teaching a low level class can use the leaflet to find
out key information, 'What is the telephone number for..?' or
'When is..?' and so on.



At higher levels the same text could be used together with similar or
related texts to form part of a research project (in this case, web
sites, posters and similar leaflets spring to mind).

48

2.4.4.4. The question of levels
Naturally certain texts will lend themselves more easily to certain levels.
At lower levels some possibilities include leaflets, timetables, menus, short
headline type reports, audio and video advertising, or short news
broadcasts. The task should be simple and relatively undemanding, and it is
important

to

pre-teach

key

vocabulary

so

as

to

prevent

panic.

At intermediate levels this list could be expanded to include longer articles,
four or five minute TV or radio news reports, a higher quantity of shorter
items, or even whole TV programs, if your copyright agreements allow it.
Again pre-teaching is important, although your students should be able to
deal with unknown vocabulary to some extent.
At higher a level it's a case of anything goes. At an advanced level
students should have some tactics for dealing with new vocabulary without
panicking, but it's still useful to have a few quick definitions to hand for some
of the trickier stuff!
2.4.4.5. Dealing with unknown language
As can be seen, a key skill here is dealing with unknown language, in
particularly vocabulary. It is hard to cover this topic here, as there are
several methods, although one which seems immediately appropriate is the
skill

of

ignoring

it,

if

they

can

complete

the

task

without

it!

Especially with lower levels, it needs to be emphasised that students do not
have to understand everything. I have found that students do not often
believe you until you go through a few tasks with them. Teaching them this
skill and developing their confidence at coping with the unknown is an
important element in their development as independent learners.

49

2.5. MOTIVATION

2.5.1. MOTIVATION PROCESS

Motivation is considered as a stimulating process or reward which allows
that the academic activity on the part of the student is developed naturally,
with confidence and

commitment. For this reason motivation allows the

student to reach his maximum academic potential and that the objective
proposed in class are achieved.

The motivation also involves impulses and efforts to satisfy complete
desires, goals or activities, that is to say a student who is motivated, will be
a proactive and committed learner with his objective "to learn."

 Motivation can be defined like the search of satisfaction of the need
that diminishes the tension caused by the same need8.
 The academic motivation is a general process by which a behaviour
begins and toward the achievement of a goal.
This process involves cognitive and affective: cognitive as for in
thought abilities and instrumental behaviours to reach the proposed
goals; affective, as much as they comprehend elements like selfvalue and self-concept9.
 Motivation is a hypothetical construction used to explain the
beginning, address, intensity and persistence of the behaviour
directed to an objective10.

8

http://www.uc3m.es/marketing2/concmotiv.htm

9

http://www.monografas.com/trabajos/lamotivacin/lamotivacin.shtml

10

http://www.uc3m.es/marketing2/concmotiv.htm

50

2.5.1.2. WHY IS MOTIVATION SO IMPORTANT?

Motivation in class is an important factor in the student's yield of learning.
So that the learner success in his educational life, he has to be encouraged
and congratulated not only by the teacher but also by his family when the
student demonstrates his progress, advance and improvement.

Not only the learners finally grades is important but also to be attentive to
their daily accomplishments, to how he overcomes small difficulties and to
offer him a certain degree of confidence so that he shares his problems and
difficulties with his teachers
2.5.1.3. STUDENTS MOTIVATION

The student's motivation places his academic success because it generates
interest and concern on students for the knowledge that the teacher will
impart. It will also develop their self-esteem, independence and emotional
security that will redound directly their achievements

2.5.1.4. How to motivate:

We will try to order and to discipline the efforts of the students so that there
is efficiency in what we want them to achieve.
We will coordinate the actions so that there is a rational use of the power of
our material and human resources.
We will establish norms so that they carry out the tasks better.
We will transmit them knowledge attitudes and ideals to drive them toward
our objectives.

51

2.6. HYPOTHESIS

General Hypothesis
An appropriate Didactic Material will develop the writing skill on
students of the 1st year of Tourism Career at Bolivars University

Specific Hypothesis
 The correct techniques according to their knowledge will help the
students to develop their writing skill
 The content of the didactic material will enable the students to
interact with the real language.
 The proper evaluation methods will let the students to be aware of
their failures and success on their writing skill.

52

CHAPTER 3
METHODOLOGY
ANALYSIS OF INVESTIGATION
TYPE OF INVESTIGATION
The study we have carried out is a descriptive type investigation since the
main goal is to establish if the inappropriate learning material affects the
writing skill in students of the 1st year in the tourism career at the Bolivar
University in Guaranda.
Then, it is necessary to analyse the variables: the inefficient writing ability
of the students and the lack of didactic material

POPULATION
Our population considers all the students men and women, legally
registered in the first year of Tourism Career at the University of Bolvar,
school year 2004 - 2005 and that, according to data provided by the faculty
of administration they are 36 students; in this instance the universe of the
study is represented by the 100% of the referenced students.

SAMPLE
Since the population is small, we will carry out the research in the whole
universe. Therefore the size of the sample is 36 students registered at
University of Bolivar in the tourism career school year 2004  2005.

53

FORMULA
The formula used for data interpretation is the following:
a= Number of times with the answer Yes
b= Number of times with the answer No

c= the total of the sample answers

Then:

C= alb

x= % a with relation to a c

x= (a/c)*100
y= % b with relation to c

y= (b/c)*100
Then:

x+y=100%

54

INSTRUMENTS OF INVESTIGATION TO BE USED:
The technique to be used to collect data which allows us to measure the
variables of our investigation is the survey subsequently the instrument will
be the questionnaire.

The questionnaire is organized in 10 questions, some of the items are
yes/no question and some are multiple choice.
Basically the items content is about the abilities or skills that the students
posses in writing English, these items are carefully selected in order to
determine the level of their writing ability

DATA COLLECTION PROCEDURES:
We have made a questionnaire which is our instrument to investigate the
inefficient writing ability in students of the tourism career due to the lack of
appropriate learning material.

The questionnaire will be applied to 36 students that represent the 100% of
the 1st year students of the tourism career of October 2004 at the Bolivars
University.

The questionnaire meets the requirements of all instruments of data
collection: Reliability (the fact that its application repeats to the same
subject or another group with the same characteristics, produce the same
results) To proof the reliability of our data collection we made two
questionnaires with the same items to the same students but on different
days the first one was made on Monday while the last one was made one
week after it means the next Monday and Validity (the degree in which an
instrument measures the variable that it tries to measure) We choose the

55

items very carefully those items was according to the curricula and the
problems we expect to find out.

DATA ANALYSIS
We have carried out the quantitative analysis of the obtained data of the
investigated students. For that it has been elaborated the charts of
distribution of frequencies and then it has been empty the information in a
matrix of data for each one of the investigated skills.

We illustrate the graphic representations that correspond to each one of the
data charts.

Finally, to carry out the hypothesis test, we proceed to the calculation of the
percentage that is the statistical measure that allows us to determine the
grade of acquisition or development of each one of the skills of the English
language.

INSTRUMENT FOR DATA COLLECTION
The technique to be used to pick up information and/or data that allow us to
measure the variable of our study is a survey consequently the instrument
will be the questionnaire.

PROCESSING AND ANALYSIS.
We have designed an instrument that evaluates the acquisition of the writing
skills of the Basic English language, in the first year tourism career students
at the University of Bolvar.

The questionnaire will be applied to the 36 students who are the sample of
our research.

56

The questionnaire gathers the requirements demanded to every instrument
for gathering data: dependability and validity.

The dependability of a measuring instrument refers to the fact that its
repeated application to the same fellows or another group of the same
characteristics produces the same results.

The validity, on the other hand, refers to the grade in that an instrument
measures the variable that it seeks to measure. To verify the dependability
and validity of our instrument, we will carry out a pilot test to 15 students
that do not correspond to the sample in study.

57

RESULTS
The following results were obtained after the survey application which is
analyzed qualitatively and quantitatively.
Table 1. Writing skill applied on specific purposes.

Analysis
The 75% of the surveyed ones state that they can not make an informative
triptych offering a touristic place in English language, while the 25% affirm
they can do the triptych.

58

Table 2 .Difficult level of writing English commercial

Analysis

Most of the surveyed students 42% can check in guests in a hotel which is
the minor difficult level of writing English commercial. 22% of the surveyed
students can write an apologize letter for guest. The 25% of the students
think they can receive and give written messages, while just 11% of the
surveyed students can write an invitation letter which is the major difficult
level of English writing commercial

59

Table 3. - English language use as communicative tool

Analysis
Most of the surveyed students that is 89% can not produce a touristic
package in English ; while a minor amount of the students that is 11% state
that they can produce a touristic package in English.

60

Table 4. - Advanced writing skill and students creativity

Analysis
Most of the surveyed ones 86% affirm that they do not poses the advanced
skill to produce a guide conference for a hotel; but just 14% of the students
said they can produce a conference guide

61

Table 5. - Writing subskills: composition ability

Analysis
Most of the surveyed students 81% have not developed the composition
ability because they can not make a descriptive essay; while the 19%
posses the composition ability because they say: they can write a
descriptive essay

62

Table 6. - Assertive methodology

Analysis
The 44% of the surveyed students think that the methodology used by the
teacher is an assertive one and a 17% thinks that is a little appropriate
nevertheless a 17% think the methodology used by the teacher is not
appropriate

63

Table 7. - Techniques and practical exercises

Analysis
Most of the surveyed students that is 83% of the students says that they do
not do practical exercises and there are no practical techniques used to
develop the writing skill; 14% of students declare that they sometimes do
practical exercises but just 3% of the students state that they do practical
exercises and there are practical techniques used to develop the writing
skill.

64

Table 8. - Teachers Training

Analysis
An amount of 39% of the surveyed students thinks that the teacher has
enough training; while 30% of the students think that the teacher does not
have enough training

65

TABLE 9. - STUDENTS MOTIVATION

Analysis
Most of the students 75% believe that the lack of motivation during the
lessons affects their performance in English Language learning; while 11%
of the surveyed students think that the lack of motivation does not affect
their English Language learning performance.

66

TABLE 10. - APPROPRIATE LEARNING MATERIAL

Analysis

Most of the surveyed students 92% think that it is necessary the use of
additional didactic material to help them to develop the writing skill; while
8% of the students think that is not necessary the use of additional didactic
material to develop their writing skill

67

HYPOTHESIS TEST


H

: An appropriate Didactic Material will develop the writing skill

G

on students of the first year Tourism career at the University of
Bolivar.

Discussion:


89% of the students can not use the English writing as a tool for
communicative purposes (data from table 3)



75% of the students state that they can not make an informative
triptych offering a touristic place in English language ( data from table
1)



92% of the students think that it is necessary the use of additional
didactic material to help them to develop the writing skill. (data from
table 10)

Consequently, in agreement with the general hypothesis: an appropriate
Didactic Material will develop the writing skill on students of the first year
Tourism career at the University of Bolivar is accepted.
 H 1: The correct techniques according to their knowledge will help
the students to develop their writing skill.

Discussion
 83 % of the students state that they do not do practical exercises and
there are not the use of practical techniques which can help to
develop their writing skill (data from table 7)

68

 42% of the students can check in guest in a hotel which is the minor
difficult level of writing Commercial English, while just 11% of the
students can write an invitation letter which is the major medium
difficult level of writing Commercial English.(data from table 2)
Consequently, in agreement with the mentioned data, H

1

of the

Investigation is accepted.
 H 2: The content of the didactic material will enable the students to
interact with the real language.

Discussion:
 According to the data table 3, 89% of the students state that they can
not produce a touristic package in English, only 11% of the students
can do it

 Data from table 4, 86% of the students affirm that they can not
elaborate a conference guide in English.

 According to the data table 5, 81% of the surveyed students state
that they can not write a descriptive essay of a touristic place.
Consequently, H
 H

3:

2

of our investigation is accepted.

The proper evaluation methods will let the students to be aware

of their failures and success on their writing skill.

Discussion:
 Data from table No. 7 displays that 89% of the students do not do
practical and technical exercises.


According to data table 5 86% of the students can not elaborate a
guide conference for a hotel.



Consequently, H 3 of our investigation is accepted.

69

CHAPTER 4

CONCLUSIONS AND
RECOMMENDATIONS
CONCLUSIONS
1. An appropriate Didactic Material will develop the writing skill on
students of the first year Tourism career at the University of Bolivar
according to the data from table num. 10, the 92% of the students
surveyed consider that is necessary the use of additional didactic
material to help them to develop the writing skill.

2. The correct techniques according to their knowledge will help the
students to develop their writing skill according to data table 7, 83 %
of the students state that they do not do practical exercises and there
are not the uses of practical techniques which can help to develop
their writing skill.
3. The content of the didactic material will enable the students to interact
with the real language. Write a conference guide, write a triptych of a
touristic place or elaborate a touristic package are real situation that
the students will face on their jobs, but most of the student do not
posses this abilities.

70

RECOMMENDATIONS
1. The English Teachers of tourism career should use additional
didactic material with the students in order to help them to
develop the writing skill. We suggest: the teacher could elaborate
a photocopiable sheet with exercises using the techniques from
the book Teaching writing Skills (Don Byrne), Language
Awareness (Kowal M. &Swain), Process of writing (Ron White),
Improving students writing without formal grammar instruction.
We also recommend that the teachers should assist to seminars,
and specializing courses about methods and techniques to
teaching English for Specific Purposes

2. This additional material should help the students to develop the
writing skill by stages it means using exercises of minor difficulty
to major difficulty, the content of each stage should have technical
English or vocabulary of tourism and hostelry curricula. The
exercises of each stage should have real language for real
situation that the student is going to face on his job; this will help
the student to use the writing ability as a tool for communicative
purposes.

3. The additional material should have techniques and exercises for
Beginners:

Sentence Transformation
Gap-filling with cue word given
Gap-filling without cue word
Gap filling with picture prompts
Making sentences based on word prompts

Advanced:

Informal/formal letters
Filling in forms
Postcards
Messages
Autobiographies/CVs, letter to magazines
71

CHAPTER 5
PROPOSAL
DIDACTIC MATERIAL FOR WRITING DEVELOPMENT

DESCRIPTION
Our proposal is based in the data obtained in our research.
Following, we show a description of these data which are arguments and
support to elaborate a didactic material in order to help the students to
develop by themselves the writing skill applied to tourism career.

The survey results express that the surveyed students consider the need to
have an additional didactic material which helps them to develop the writing
skill to the level of their year of study also they consider the use of
appropriate techniques for example:
 The 83 % of the students state that they do not do practical exercises
and there are not the use of practical techniques which can help to
develop their writing skill (data from table 7)
 The 69% of the students can not use the English writing as a tool for
communicative purposes (data from table 3)
 The 75% of the students state that they can not make an informative
triptych offering a touristic place in English language ( data from table
1)
 The 92% of the students think that it is necessary the use of
additional didactic material to help them to develop the writing skill.
(data from table 10)
72

OBJECTIVES

General Objective:


To design a sample lesson for motivating alternative material for
teaching English writing to the First year in the Tourism Career at the
Bolivar University in Guaranda.

Specific Objectives:


Adjust the lesson to the real necessities of the users.



Motivate the students through the attractive activities



Improve the writing skill through interesting activities

FEASIBILITY
Our proposal is feasible because the technique to acquire English language
Writing could be learned through a series of motivating activities that will
help students understand English better and play at the same time they
learn English.

Many researchers agree on the point of saying that the same way we
speak, we write in a language. It can not be an exception for English. If we
give students the opportunity to develop the writing skill, then in a really
near future they will acquire the ability to communicate orally. In other words
writing is the base for oral communication. Students form the first years,
have the opportunity to learn English from the very beginning, so by this
proposal, we are giving students from The Tourism Career, the possibility to
learn not only to communicate, but also to learn some grammar rules, that
will be helpful for later in the process of communication.

There are many reasons why to practice the writing skill:

73



Improves grammar



Its a bridge for oral communication



Students have more time for writing and improving their mistakes



More time for making analysis



Its more flexible



It helps students to get the habit of reading

BUDGET

Description

Unitary value

Estimated

Value

quantity

Sheet of paper

5.00 USD

3

15.00 USD

Printing

38.00 USD

1

38.00 USD

Digital pictures

2.00 USD

48

96.00 USD

Spirals

2.00 USD

5

10.00 USD

Internet

1.00 USD

5

5.00 USD

cartridge

TOTA L

464.00 USD

PARTICIPANTS AND BENEFICIARIES
According to the results of our research we can conclude that is useful to
use interesting writing activities to overcome the problem we found on our
research. The authors of this thesis: are the ones who are participating
actively in the doing of this work.

The beneficiaries of this job will be the English teachers and Tourism
students, especially the ones from First year of this career.

74

PROPOSAL DEVELOPMENT

75

Lesson 1: Vacations
Task Objective:
To write a detailed description of a vacation destination.
Task Description:
You have received a letter from Mara Elena Martnez, an English teacher at
Verbo Divino in Guaranda-Ecuador. In the letter she explains that she and a
group of her students are planning to visit the United States this summer
because they want to see a variety of historical, cultural, natural, and
recreational sites, they have decided to visit New York City, Washington, D.C.,
Florida, and at least one national park. She and her students want to know
what they should see and do in the different sites. Write a response to her
letter giving her and her students a thorough description of what to see and do
in one of the sites. Be sure to answer the students' questions in your letter.
Minimum Requirements to Meet Expectations:
 Introduce yourself and tell a little about yourself.
 Give a detailed description of what she and her students should see and do in
the site you choose.
 Answer the students' questions. Is there a paper containing the students
questions?
 Write at least 225 words or 25 sentences.
Suggestions:
You may want to mention your personal experiences if you have visited the
place you choose to describe. You might also want to mention what the
students should bring on their trip.
Directions:
You may use the letter from Mara Elena Martnez to prepare your response.
You may use your notes as you write your letter.
You may shouldnt use any dictionary.
Scoring Criteria: Level 3 writing rubric
Write as much as you can! Show off what you can do!

Lesson Plan 2
Objective: To make hotel reservations
Number of students: 36
Activities:
1. Divide the class into two groups.
2. Assign the paired students to be Students Letter A, who will be the
receptionists in this activity
3. Assign the odd students to be Students Letter B, who will be the Hotel
Clients Customers
4. Give each student into each one of the groups a paper, containing
instructions for tasks to be done according to their roles. Assign them
enough time to complete the paper.
5. Ask students to work in pairs
6. Ask students A to take notes according to information given by students B.
Evaluation:

76

The teacher will be monitoring the class permanently, to see if they speak English
all the time. At the same time, the teacher will help Students A to write questions
correctly and appropriately, and Students B should write correctly the information
required. Also at the end of the activity the teacher will hand in (or pick up) the
paper with the written information provided by Students B.

77

STUDENTS A
You are the RECEPTIONIST. In your group, on the space provided write an
appropriate question to ask the hotel client, Student B. Use that question to get
information from your Client, (Student B.)

HOTEL RESERVATIONS FORM
Name: .
Q _________________________________
Date: .
Q ________________
Phone No. .
Q ___________________________
Fax No. .
Q _________________
E-mail Address: .
Q __________________________
Date of arrival: .
Q _____________________________________________________
Airline and flight: .
Q _____________________________________________________
Time of arrival: .
Q _____________________________________________________
Date of departure: .
Q _____________________________________________________
Airline and flight: .
Q _____________________________________________________
Time of departure: .
Q _____________________________________________________
Smoking Room: _____ Yes _____ No
Q _____________________________________________________

I would like a single room _____ Yes _____ No
Q _____________________________________________________

78

STUDENTS B
You are the CLIENT. Individually, on the space provided write some appropriate
information to give the hotel receptionist, Student A. Use that information when
talking with him.
Name: .
Date: .
Phone No. .
Fax No. .
E-mail Address: .
Date of arrival: .
Airline and flight: .
Time of arrival: .
Date of departure: .
Airline and flight: .
Time of departure: .
Smoking Room: _____ Yes _____ No

I would like a single room _____ Yes _____ No

79

LESSON3

The Galapagos Island and some endangered species
Objectives: - To develop extensive writing skills.
- To build on students existing knowledge of marine species.

Task 1. Do you know the names of these animals? Label the pictures.

------------------

---------------Sea Lion  Giant Tortoise

Task 2. Read about these endangered species and make notes in the table
below.
Description

Food

Sea Lion
Giant Tortoise

80

Problems

Giant Tortoise
The Galpagos tortoise (or Galpagos giant tortoise), is the largest living
tortoise, endemic to nine islands of the Galpagos archipelago. Adults of
large subspecies can weigh over 300 kilograms (660lb) and measure
1.2 meters (4 ft) long. Although the maximum life expectancy of a wild
tortoise is unknown, the average life expectancy is estimated to be 150-200
years.
The Galpagos tortoises have very large shells (carapace) made of bone
which is an integral part of the skeleton. The bony plates of the shell are
fused with the ribs and other bones to form a rigid protective structure.
When a tortoise feels threatened it can withdraw its head, neck and
forelimbs into its shell for protection, presenting a thick shield to a would-be
predator. The legs have hard scales that provide an effective armor when
withdrawn.
The scutes of the carapace are not coincident with the underlying bony
plates and grow at their outer edges. Tortoises thus keep their characteristic
scute pattern throughout life. These do have annual growth bands but are
not useful for telling the age as the outer layers are rubbed off in the normal
wear and tear of living
The tortoises are herbivorous animals with a diet consisting of cactus,
grasses, leaves, vines, and fruit. Fresh young grass in particular is the
favorite food of the tortoises, and others are the poison apple (Hippomane
mancinella), which is highly poisonous to humans, the endemic guava
(Psidium galapageium), the water fern (Azolla microphylla), and the
bromeliad (Tillandsia insularis). Tortoises studied in the Santa Cruz tortoise
reserve ate well over fifty different plant species. (Ref Linda Cayot (1981)) In
the drier areas, fallen Opuntia cactus pads and fruits are an important
element in the diet of tortoises. Galapagos tortoises eat a large quantity of
food when it is available at the expense of incomplete digestion.
By acquiring most of their moisture from the dew and sap in vegetation
(particularly the Opuntia cactus), they can go for long periods without
actually drinking. They can also survive for long periods of time being
forcefully deprived of all liquids, by breaking down their body fat to produce
water.
On the wetter islands, the tortoises migrate down the gentle mountain
slopes after the rainy season to feed on the grass-covered plains and they
climb back to feed on grasses of the mountain meadows in the dry season
(the increased precipitation at that altitude keeps the grasses watered). On
these islands, the tortoises appear to be gregarious, often found in large
'herds'.
Being cold-blooded, the tortoises bask for two hours after dawn, absorbing
the energy through their shells, and then becoming active for 8-9 hours a
81

day. They may sleep for about sixteen hours in a mud wallow or pool or a
'pallet' (snug depressions in soft ground or dense brush) which probably
helps conserve heat and may aid digestion. On Aledo Volcano, where there
is a large population, repeated use of the same sites has resulted in the
formation of small sandy pits.
Although capable of withstanding drought, tortoises seem to enjoy drinking
and wallowing in water. When the tortoise arrives at a spring, seemingly
ignoring any spectators, it puts its head in the water above its eyes, and
swallows many mouthfuls, at the rate of about ten in a minute. On Aledo
Volcano in the wet season, large numbers of tortoises can be found partially
submerged in rain-formed pools or even the dew ponds formed by garuamoisture dripping off trees. These pools tend to be churned up into mud
baths. This may be both a thermoregulatory response and a protection from
parasites such as mosquitoes and ticks.

Sea Lion
Sea lions are known for their intelligence, playfulness, and noisy barking.
Their color ranges from chocolate brown in males to a lighter, golden brown
in females. Males may reach 1,000 lbs. (more often 850 lbs., or 390 kg) and
seven feet (2.1 m) in length. Females grow to 220 lbs. (110 kg) and up to six
feet (1.8 m) in length. They have a "dog-like" face, and at around five years
of age, males develop a bony bump on top of their skull called a sagittal
crest. The top of a male's head often gets lighter with age.
Sea lions are very social animals, and groups often rest closely packed
together at favored haul-out sites on land, or float together on the ocean's
surface in "rafts." They are sometimes seen porpoising, or jumping out of
the water, presumably to speed up their swimming. Sea lions have also
been seen "surfing" breaking waves. Sea lions are opportunistic eaters,
feeding on squid, octopus, herring, rockfish, mackerel, and small sharks. In
turn, sea lions are preyed upon by Orcas (killer whales) and great white
sharks.
Each year, many California sea lions are treated at The Marine Mammal
Center. Sea lions are known to have such diseases as pneumonia, caused
by a parasitic lungworm, and a bacterial infection called leptospirosis, which
affects their livers and kidneys. In 1998 and again in 2000, large numbers of
sea lions were treated for domoic acid poisoning, a condition caused by
harmful algal blooms which causes the animals to have seizures. Other
problems for Sea lions involve humans. Sea lions have been found illegally
shot and also caught in drift or gill nets and other marine debris. Between
January 1986 and September 1998, 7.5% of all the seals and sea lions
treated by The Marine Mammal Center had human-related injuries. The
majority of these incidents involved California sea lions.
Task 3. Choose one endangered marine species and find more information
about it. Then use your information to make a poster about it. Make sure
you include:
82

Feeding

possible solutions

Habitat

problems

Task 4. Look at the photos of the animals and label them with the words in
the box.
The Frigate bird - The Famous Finches  Boobies  Penguins - The
Marine Turtle  Shark - The Waved Albatross - Land Iguanas

a)______________________

b)____________________

c)___________________

d)________________

e)_______________

f)______________

83

g)__________________

h)________________

Task 5. Complete the crossword using the clues below.

1d.
G

3d.

G

1.a

P

L

A

2d.

I

A

A
E
2a.

I

L

4a.

A
3a.

U

R

I

T

DOWN
1. magician Islands
2. a large body of salt water
3. reptile of the Galapagos Islands
4. the shining celestial body around which the earth and other planets
revolve and from which they receive Light and heat.

ACROSS
1. bird with a big and curve beak

84

2. a body of land smaller than a continent surrounded by water.
3. one that makes a tour for pleasure or culture

Task 6. Write a sentence for each word that you found in the crossword.

85

LESSON 4

Ecuadors National Parks
Objectives: -To make students aware of the potential of Ecuadors nature
Resources.
-To develop extensive writing skills.

Readings
El ANGEL RESERVE
This reserve is located in the Carchi province. The main access is from the
Panamericana Norte highway. It is also possible to access the reserve from
Tulcn. It is also possible to access the reserve from Tulcn. Its climate is
cold (around 10 C all year round). El Angel reserve is considered as the
wettest moorland of Ecuador and it is the source of the water supply for the
Carchi province. In fact, it is the starting point of many rivers. The most
outstanding feature of this area is the forest of the frailejones which in
addition to its eye-catching beauty is one of the last remainders of this type
of forest. There are many other trees and rare plants species which are
worth seeing and studying.

The fauna in El Angel is impressive too. There are fish such as the rainbow
trout, birds of different kinds such as the rainbow trout, birds of different
kinds such as the curiquingue and the gli-gli.

Additionally, there is a variety of mammals such as deer, the unique iguana
called guagsa and a variety of frogs.

The landscape is wonderful and visitors can enjoy nature at its purest.
Warm, waterproof clothes are recommended.

86

MANGLARES-CHURERE RESERVE
This reserve is located in the Guayas Province. The main access road to it
is on km 46 of the Guayaquil-Machala highway. An alternative access is the
Guayas River and the Matorrillos channel.

There is a warning not to travel this way during the night because it could be
dangerous. The reserve is a perfect habitat for mangrove forests, which at a
certain point meet remaining humid and tropical forest and infinity of
lagoons and estuaries of great biological diversity. This diversity helped to
include this reserve in the list of important international places of the
RAMSAR Convention for the protection of humid marine ambiances.
You can find 269 birds species such as the cancin lagoon from January to
June when the water reaches its highest level and the birds are more active
and visible. Mosquitoes are abundant at certain times of year, so it is
advisable to wear light clothes and long sleeved shirts.

TASK 1. Match the names in the box with the corresponding photo.

1. Manglares-Churere Reserve
2. Yasuni National Park
3. LLanganates National Park
4. El Angel Ecological Reserve

1)_______________

2)_________________________

87

3)__________________

4)_________________

TASK 2. Work pairs and fill in the corresponding part of the table.

Group A: Read El Angel Reserve
Group B: Read Manglares-Churere Reserve

El Angel

Manglares

Location
How to get there
Climate
Special features
Warnings
Recommendation

Task 3. Make a composition which is the most interesting park and why.

88

Lesson 5
Objectives: -To develop extensive writing skills.
- To Know about our province

GUARANDA
Map of Bolvar, Ecuador

Province's Capital

Road

Cities

Chimborazo

Guaranda
Traditions and Scenery
Located in the heart of the country, quaint Guaranda is the smallest
provincial capital in the highlands. Its pleasant climate (22 to 25 degrees
centigrade in the tropical regions) make it very popular with visitors, who are
also attracted the areas cool paramo. The Carnival festivities of the area
have gained fame throughout Ecuador.

89

Surrounded by the peaks of San Jacinto, Loma de Guaranda, San Bartolo,
Cruzloma, Tililac, Talalac, and el Mirador, Guaranda is known as the City of
the Seven Hills. At 2650m, this highland city is the smallest provincial capital
in Ecuador. The Carnival festivities are very traditional and last for several
days. Visitors are offered chicha (a local, maize-based alcoholic drink) and
the popular firewater known as Pjaro Azul (Blue bird) which helps them get
into the spirit of the festivities.
Tows and Villages
San Jos de Chimbo (14 km from Guaranda) is famous for its skilled
craftsmen who handcraft guitars as well as fireworks. Chimbo has a
museum dedicated to the story of Christ's shroud and the locals worship the
El Guayco Virgin. Near Chillanes (67 km from Guaranda) you can visit the
archaeological remains of the Chillanes tribe and in San Miguel, the
Guardias Caves (10 minutes from town) and the Virgin of Lourdes Grotto
(20 minutes from town) is a must-see for tourists.
Cruz Loma Hill
Cruz Loma offers a panoramic view of the entire city of Guaranda. The town
is also home to a monument to the Indio Guaranga as well as a small
museum containing the independence arms, historical documents,
archaeological remains, and centuries-old artwork.
Cochas Lake
Lake Cochas is an artificial lake located 10 km from Guaranda. It is a
popular destination where visitors can go for a boat ride, admire the
beautiful gardens and surrounding landscape, and try some local delicacies.
Zumbi Hill
A few kilometres from Chimbo stands the pyramid-shaped Cerro Zumbi. Its
considered to have been an ancient place of worship to the Gods Cuiche
and Katekil.
Catequilla Hill
These hot springs are a few minutes from Chimbo and their medicinal
properties attract visitors from all over.
Culture and Traditions-A Fair to Enjoy
Dating back centuries, the Guaranda Fair is a well known local celebration
during which locals parade through 15 de Mayo Plaza on mules and on
horseback, dressed up in gold ponchos, black hats, and masks.
Cuisine
Fritada (fried pork), mashed plantains (known as bollos), sweet hornado
90

(roasted pork), and empanadas (pastries filled with meat and cheese), aji de
cuy, are traditional fare in Guaranda. In carnival are traditional the plates aji
de cuy, chiguiles, chicha de jora.
Task 1. Make a brochure to attract tourists to Guaranda city. Make notes on
the following points.
City to visit

______________

Location

______________________________________

Climate

______________________________________

Things to see

______________________________________
______________________________________

Activities

______________________________________
______________________________________

What to drink

______________________________________
______________________________________

Recommendations _____________________________________
______________________________________

Task 2. Work in groups of three. Make a brochure to attract tourist to
another tourist city. Then, look for a partner from another group for
exchange brochures.

91

Lesson 6
Objectives: - To develop extensive writing skills.
- To know about tourism in Baos.
Baos

Task 1. Read about Tourism in Baos. Complete the text with the word
in the box.

touristic- spend -foothill- city -volcano-families
Catholic-waterfall-attractions- sports- springs.

-water-Roman

Baos is a ------- in eastern Tungurahua Province, in central Ecuador.
Baos is the second most populous city in Tungurahua, after Ambato, the
capital, and a major ----- center. It is known as the "Gateway to the
Amazon," as it is located on the Pastaza River in the Amazon River basin,
and has a newly paved road to Puyo.
Baos is located on the northern -------- of the Tungurahua --------. It is
named after the hydrothermal ------- of mineral ------ located around the city.
The city is also a -------- religious center, as some Catholic believers say that
the Virgin Mary appeared nearby a ---------. So a sculpture of the virgin,
called Virgen de Agua Santa, was placed in the cathedral.
Baos is one of the most popular tourist --------- in Ecuador and is well
known for the mom-and-pop stores where they sell taffy (Spanish: melcocha
made from cane sugar, and for the excellent small arts and crafts shops, a
favorite spot for tourists.

92

Entertainment
Day Activities
Baos is a little town, but it has a lot of extreme -------. Besides the tourist
spots you can find here, you can also find amazing, exquisite food.

Night Activities
This peculiar town is known globally. The tourism rate in Baos is almost
the half of Ecuador's rate. During the day, people ------- time with their ------,
but when the sun goes down, it gets wild.
Task 2. Read the Tourism in Baos again. Take notes in the table.
Baos
Located
Religion
Entertainment
Food

Task 3. Get information about another tourism city. Make a composition.

93

ANNEXES

94

ARMY POLYTECHNIC SCHOOL
APPLIED LINGUISTICS MAJOR
Students name_____________________________________

Date: 12/09/07

Instructions
The following survey will be used to develop a research work about how an appropriate
learning material helps the students to develop their Writing skills.
You have to choose with an x one option.

1. Do you believe you could elaborate an informative leaflet in English promoting a
touristic place?
Yes

____

No

_____

2. Choose the option you can write in English:
Hotel Registration

_____

Give and receive messages in English

_____

Apologize letter to a guest

_____

Invitation letter

_____

3. As an operator of a touristic agency could you elaborate a touristic package in
English?
Yes

_____

No

_____

4. Could you elaborate a conference guide in English for a hotel?
Yes

_____

No

_____

5. Could you describe the touristic places of your city on an essay?
Yes

_____

No

_____

6. Do you believe that the method used by your teacher is an appropriate to
develop writing skill?
A little _____

A lot

_____

Nothing _____

7. Does you teacher develop practical and technical exercises during the class to
develop the writing skill?
Yes

_____

sometimes

_____

no

_____

8. Do you believe that your teacher is well qualified to help you to develop the
Writing skill?
A Lot

_____

Some

_____

Nothing _____

9. Do you believe the lack of motivation affects your performance in your learning
process?
A lot

_____

Some

_____

Nothing _____

10. Do you believe that is necessary the use of additional didactic material in order
to help you to develop the Writing skill?
Yes

_____

No

95

_____

Administrative Frame
Description

Unit value

Estimated

Total

Quantity
Ream of paper

5.00 USD

3

15.00 USD

Photocopies

0.05 USD

300

15.00 USD

30.00 USD

3

90,00 USD

Spiraling

4.00USD

8

32.00 USD

Binding

10.00USD

4

40.00 USD

Internet

1.00 USD

40

40.00 USD

Printers cartridges

Unforeseen

BN

50.00 USD

Human Competence

No

Personnel

Fellows

1

Researchers

Ruth Bazante and Mariela Noboa

2

Project Director

Designed by the Department of Languages

3

Project Co-director

Designed by the Department of Languages

4

Specialists

Professors of the E.S.P.E

96

TIMETABLE
ACTIVITIES
Thesis plan presentation to
coordination department
Delivery of the report to the
Academic Coordination department
for the approval or denial
Notification to the students about
the approval or denial of the thesis
plan

LENGHT OF TIME

START

END

1 day

Fri. 03/08/07

Fri. 03/08/07

1 day

Mon. 06/08/07

15 days

Mon. 20/08/07

Thesis theme approval

1 day

Mon. 10/09/07

Students
Academic
Coordination
Mon. 06/08/07 Department
Academic
Coordination
Fri. 07/09/07
Department
Students/Academi
c Coordination
Mon. 10/09/07
Department

Firs questionnaire application

1 day

Wed. 12/09/07

Wed. 12/09/07

Students

Second questionnaire application

1 day

Wed. 19/09/07

Wed. 19/09/07

Students

Collecting Data and data analysis
First presentation revision and
delivery to the students for
corrections
Revision and delivery to the students
for corrections
Notification from Coordination
Department to designate Session
Degree Tribunal

3 days

Thu. 20/09/07

Students/ Thesis
Mon. 24/09/07 tutor

238 days

Tue. 25/09/07

Tue. 21/08/08

8 das

Mon. 25/08/08

Mon. 03/09/08

1 day

Thu. 24/09/08

Thu. 24/09/08

Notification from the tribunal to the
students

7 days

Thu. 25/09/08

Fri. 03/10/08

Delivery of Final Thesis to Academic
Coordination

1 day

Mon. 06/10/08

Mon. 06/10/08

Notification of the date for the
thesis oral presentation

1 day

Thu. 08/10/08

Thu. 08/10/08

Firs oral thesis presentation

1 day

Thru.23/10/08

Thur.23/10/08

Graduation Ceremony

1 day

Wed. 30/10/08

Wed. 30/10/08

97

RESPONSIBLES

Thesis Tutor
Students
Academic
Coordination
Department
Academic
Coordination
Department
Students
Academic
Coordination
Department
Students
Academic
Coordination
Department

BIBLIOGRAPHY.


BOLAOS, Guillermo y MOLINA BOGANTES, Zaida. Teora
Curricular,(1999)



AGUILERA AYALA, Fausto Anbal. Tcnicas de Estudio a Distancia
y Presencial,

ED. Talleres de la Facultad De Ciencias

Administrativas UC, (2001)


GURRA DI-BELLA, Manuel. Introduccin al Turismo ED, Trillas,
Mxico,(1991)



HERNNDEZ DIAZ, Edgar Alfonso. Planificacin Turstica.



www.pci2004.cinedoc.csic.ec/tesaurus/desarrollodellenguage



www.intercom.com.ar/smm/pedagogia/teorias psicoapren.htm



RICHARDS, Jack. INTERCHANGE. Cambridge University Press.
Third Edition 2005. Books 1, 2.



WARRIINER, John, WARRIINERS ENGLISH GRAMMAR AND
COMPOSITION. Franklin Edition 1997. First course.



Hardest, David. CALL. ISBN. 019 71050.



HADFIELD, Jill. CLASSROOM DYNAMICS. Oxford University Press.
First Edition 1999.



MURPHY, Raymond. and others. GRAMMAR IN USE. Cambridge
University Press. 1989. First Edition. Intermediate.



Brown, H.D. (1991). TESOL at twenty-five: What are the issues?
TESOL Quarterly, 25, 245-260



Fathman, A., & Kessler, C. (1993). Cooperative language learning in
school contexts. Annual Review of Applied Linguistics, 13 (2), 127140.



Hauck, M., & Haezewindt, B. (1999). Adding a new perspective to
distance (language) learning: The tutors approach. ReCall, 11(2),
46-54.



Kowal, M., & Swain, M. (1994). Using collaborative language
production

tasks to promote

students language

Language Awareness, 3 (2), 73-93.

98

awareness.



McGroarty, M. (1989). The benefits of cooperative learning
arrangements in second language instruction. The Journal for the
National Association for Bilingual Education, 13 (2), 127-143.



Osuna, M.M. & Meskill, C. (1998). Using the Wide World Web to
integrate Spanish language and culture: A pilot study. Language
Learning and Technology 1(2), 71-92.



Abrahamson, Richard F. The effects of formal grammar instruction
vs. the effects of Sentence combining instruction on student writing: a
Collection of evaluative abstracts of pertinent research Documents.
Study prepared at University of Houston, 1977.



Bateman, D. R., and F. J. Zidonis. The effect of a study of
transformational grammar on the writing of ninth and tenth graders.
NCTE Research Report, No. 6. Champaign, IL: National Council of
Teachers of English, 1966.



Braddock, R., R. Lloyd-Jones, and L. Schoer. Research in Written
Composition. Urbana, IL: National Council of Teachers of English,
1963.



Burns, S. An Annotated bibliography of texts on writing skills
:grammar and usage, composition, rhetoric, and technical writing.
New York:Garland, 1976.



Carroll, J. B. "Psycholinguistics and the teaching of English
composition." Applied English Linguistics. Ed. H.B. Allen, New York:
Appleton-Century-Croft. 1958. 319-26.



Gale, Irma Frances. An experimental study of two fifth-grade
language-arts Programs, an analysis of the writing of children taught
linguistic grammars compared to those taught traditional grammar.
PhD thesis, Ann Arbor, 1967.



Harpin, W.S. Social and educational influences on children's
acquisition of grammar: a study of writing development in the junior
school. Nottingham, University of Nottingham, School of Education,
1973.

99



Kennedy, L. D., and A.D. Larson. "The influence of structural and
traditional grammatical instruction upon language perception and
writing ability." Illinois School Research 5.2 (1969): 31-36.



Matzen, Richard N., Jr., and others. "The role of traditional grammar
instruction in the teaching of writing: a selected, annotated
bibliography." Paper presented at the 46th annual meeting of the
conference on college composition and communication (Washington,
DC, March 23-25, 1995).



Mellon, John. Transformational Sentence Combining. Research
Report No. 10. Urbana, IL: National Council of Teachers of English,
1969.



Moran, M.G. and M.J.Jacobi. Research in basic writing: a
bibliographic sourcebook. New York:Greenwood Press, 1990.



Noguchi, R.R. Grammar and the teaching of writing: limits and
possibilities. Urbana, Ill., National Council of Teachers of English,
1991.



Nunes,T., P. Bryant, and M. Bindman. "Morphological spelling
strategies: Developmental stages and processes." Developmental
Psychology 33.4 (1997a): 637-649.



O'Hare, Frank. Sentence Combining: Improving student writing
without formal grammar instruction. Research Report No. 15.
Urbana, IL: National Council of Teachers of English, 1973.



Rutledge, A. 2000. Noun phrase usage as an index of writing quality
and text type in adolescent writing. University of Queensland PhD.



Tordoir,

Agatha

Catharina,

and

Hildo

Wesdorp.

1979.

Het

grammatica-onderwijs in


Adams, D. S. (1986). Writing with sociological imagination: A timeline assignment for introductory sociology. Teaching Sociology, 14,
200-203.



Anderson, L., & Holt, M. (1990). Teaching writing in sociology: A
social constructionist approach. Teaching Sociology, 18(2), 179-184.



Anderson, T. (1990). A psychodynamic approach to the teaching of
writing: The hermeneutic dialogue. Teaching of Psychology, 17(1),
18-22.
100



Bard, I. (1986). Sequencing the writing of essays in pre-modern world
history courses. History Teacher, 19(3), 361-371.



Baxter, D. C. (1984). History 301J: "Research and writing".



Beers, S. E. (1985). Use of a portfolio writing assignment in a course
on developmental psychology. Teaching of Psychology, 12(2), 94-96.



Beins, B. C. (1991). Writing in statistics classes encourages students
to learn interpretation.



Blevins-Knabe, B. (1987). Writing to learn while learning to write.
Teaching of Psychology, 14(4), 239-241.



Boice, R. (1990). Faculty resistance to writing-intensive courses.
Teaching of Psychology, 17(1), 13-17.



Cohen, A. J., & Spencer, J. (1993). Using writing across the
curriculum in economics: Is taking the plunge worth it? Journal of
Economic Education, 24(3), 219-230.



Coker, F. H., & Scarboro, A. (1990). Writing to learn in upper-division
sociology courses: Two case studies. Teaching Sociology, 18(2),
218-222.



Day, S. (1989). Producing better writers in sociology classes: A test
of the writing-across-the-curriculum approach. Teaching Sociology,
17(4), 458-464.



Green, C. S., III, & Klug, H. G. (1990). Teaching critical thinking and
writing through debates: An experimental evaluation. Teaching
Sociology, 18(4), 462-471.



Hess, D. J. (1989). Teaching ethnographic writing: A review essay.
Anthropology and Education Quarterly, 20(3), 163-176.



Hettich, P. I. (1993). Inducing students to think about their learning:
Four approaches.



Hinkle, S., & Hinkle, A. (1990). An experimental comparison of the
effects of focused freewriting and other study strategies on lecture
comprehension. Teaching of Psychology, 17(1), 31-35.



Krueger, R. R. (1983). Improving the writing of geography students: A
manual for instructors and some handouts for students. Waterloo,
Canada: Waterloo University.
101



Madigan, R. J., & Others. (1987). Written assignments in the
introductory course.



Michalak, S. J., Jr. (1989). Writing more, learning less? College
Teaching, 37(2), 43-45.



Oxendine, R., & Mills, R. (1987). Improving students' writing skills in
the classroom: A model of comparison and contrast writing. Social
Studies, 78(6), 267-269.



Selcher, W. A., & McClellan, E. F. (1990). Sequential writing
assignments in international relations and American government
survey courses. Political Science Teacher, 3(3), 14-16.



Wauchope, B. (1990). Using personal journals in the classroom.



Wepner, S. B. (1987). Reading, writing, and word processing.
Reading Psychology, 8(4), 295-309.



Willingham, D. B. (1990). Effective feedback on written assignments.
Teaching of Psychology, 17(1), 10-13.



Bednar, A. S., & Olney, R. J. (1987). Communication needs of recent
graduates. Bulletin of the Association for Business Communication,
22-23.



Browne, C. D. (1990). Incorporating writing activities in office systems
courses. Business Education Forum, 44(8), 11-12.



Campbell, P. G. (1991). Business communication or technical
writing? Bulletin of the Association for Business Communication,
54(2), 6-10.



Davies, J. E. (1987). Teaching managers to write. Personnel
Management, 26-29.



Winter, J. K., & Winter, E. J. (1992). Using the portfolio approach in
teaching intercultural business communication.



Ames, Russell and Carole Ames.
Teaching."

Educational

"Motivation and Effective
Values

and

Cognitive Instruction: Implications for Reform. Idol, Lorna, and Beau
Fly , Jones eds. Hillsdale: L. Erlbaum and Associates, 1991. 247271.

102



Brewer, Ernest W., John O., Dunn, and Patricia , Olszewski.
"Extrinsic Reward and Intrinsic Motivation: the Vital Link Between
Classroom Management and Student Performance."

Journal of

Education for Teaching 14 (1988): 151-170.


Brown, Ann L. "Motivation to Learn and Understand: On Taking
Charge of One's Own Learning." Cognition and Instruction 5 (1988):
311-321.



Davis, Barbara Gross. Tools for Teaching. San Francisco: JosseyBass Publishers, Inc. 1993.



Deci, Edward L. "Effects of Externally Mediated Rewards on Intrinsic
Motivation." Journal of Personality and Social Psychology 18 (1970)



Deci, Edward L. and Joseph , Porac. "Cognitive Evaluation and
Human Motivation." Cognitive Evaluation and Theory and the Study
of Human Motivation.

Leeper, Mark R., and David Greene,

eds. Hillsdale, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum, 1978. 155-158.


Fair, Emile M. III and Lynette , Silvestri. "Effects of Rewards,
Competition and Outcome on Intrinsic Motivation." Journal of
Instructional Psychology 19 (1992): 3-8.



Frederick, Peter J. "Motivating Students by Active Learning in the
History Classroom." Perspectives 31 (1993): 15-19.



Lepper, Mark R. "Motivational Considerations in the Study of
Instruction." Cognition and Instruction 5 (1997): 289-309.



Marsh, Herbert W.

"Experimental Manipulations of University

Student Motivation and Effects on Examination Performance." British
Journal of Educational Psychology 54 (1984): 206-213.


McMillan, James H. and Donelson R., Forsyth. "What Theories of
Motivation Say About Why Learners Learn." College Teaching: From
Theory to Practice. Menges, Robert J. and Marilla D. Svinicki
eds. San Francisco: Jossey-Bass, Inc. 1991. 45. 39-52..

103

