Pope Pius XII
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to: navigation, search

Pius XII

Papacy began

2 March 1939

Papacy ended

9 October 1958

Predecessor

Pius XI

Successor

John XXIII
Orders

Ordination

2 April 1899

Consecration

13 May 1917
by Pope Benedict XV

Created
Cardinal

16 December 1929
Personal details

Birth name

Eugenio Mara Giuseppe
Giovanni Pacelli

Born

2 March 1876
Rome, Kingdom of Italy

Died

9 October 1958 (aged 82)
Castel Gandolfo, Italy

Motto

Opus Justitiae Pax

(The work of justice and peace)
Signature

Coat of arms
Other Popes named Pius
Venerable Servant of God Pope Pius XII (Latin: Pius PP. XII; Italian: Pio XII), born Eugenio
Mara Giuseppe Giovanni Pacelli (2 March 1876  9 October 1958), reigned as Pope, head of
the Catholic Church and sovereign of Vatican City State, from 2 March 1939 until his death in
1958.
Before election to the papacy, Pacelli served as secretary of the Department of Extraordinary
Ecclesiastical Affairs, papal nuncio and Cardinal Secretary of State, in which capacity he worked
to conclude treaties with European and Latin American nations, most notably the
Reichskonkordat with Nazi Germany. The concordat of 1933 which saw the self-destruction of
the Centre (Catholic) Party, on the orders of the Holy See, and Pius' leadership of the Catholic
Church during World War II, including his "decision to stay silent in public about the fate of the
Jews",[1] remain the subject of controversy.
After the war Pius XII advocated peace and reconciliation, including lenient policies towards
Axis and Axis-satellite nations. The Church experienced severe persecution and mass
deportations of Catholic clergy in the Eastern Bloc. In light of his overt involvement in Italian
politics  anyone who voted for a Communist candidate in the 1948 elections was threatened
with automatic excommunication  Pius XII became known as a staunch opponent of the Italian
Communist Party. Pius XII explicitly invoked ex cathedra papal infallibility with the dogma of
the Assumption of Mary in his 1950 Apostolic constitution Munificentissimus Deus.[2] His
magisterium includes almost 1,000 addresses and radio broadcasts. His forty-one encyclicals
include Mystici Corporis, the Church as the Body of Christ; Mediator Dei on liturgy reform; and
Humani generis on the Church's positions on theology and evolution. He eliminated the Italian
majority in the College of Cardinals in 1946.

Contents









1 Early life
2 Church career
3 Papacy
4 Church reforms
5 Theology
6 Canonisations and beatifications
7 World War II
8 Holocaust









9 PostWorld War II
10 Later life, illness and death
11 Cause for canonization
12 Views, interpretations, and scholarship
13 See also
14 References
15 External links

Early life
Main article: Early life of Pope Pius XII
Eugenio Mara Giuseppe Giovanni Pacelli was born on 2 March 1876 in Rome into a family of
intense Catholic piety with a history of ties to the papacy (the "Black Nobility"). His parents
were Filippo Pacelli (18371916) and Virginia (ne Graziosi) Pacelli (18441920). His
grandfather, Marcantonio Pacelli, had been Under-Secretary in the Papal Ministry of Finances[3]
and then Secretary of the Interior under Pope Pius IX from 185170 and helped found the
Vatican's newspaper, L'Osservatore Romano in 1861.[4] His cousin, Ernesto Pacelli, was a key
financial advisor to Pope Leo XIII; his father, Filippo Pacelli, a Franciscan tertiary,[5] was the
dean of the Sacra Rota Romana; and his brother, Francesco Pacelli, became a lay canon lawyer
and the legal advisor to Pius XI, in which role he negotiated the Lateran Treaty in 1929, the pact
with Benito Mussolini, bringing an end to the Roman Question.

Eugenio Pacelli at the age of six in 1882
Together with his brother Francesco and his two sisters, Giuseppina and Elisabetta, he grew up
in the centre of Rome. Having attended a kindergarten run by two nuns, and then a private
Catholic elementary school, in two rooms of a building close to the Piazza Venezia,[6] by the age
of ten he was enrolled at the Liceo Ennio Quirino Visconti Institute. This was a state school
situated in the Collegio Romano, former site of the Jesuit university in Rome, and was animated
by a generally anti-Catholic and anticlerical spirit.[7] He was an altar boy at the Chiesa Nuova
and his preferred play as a youth was to act out the celebration of Mass in his bedroom. One year
he played out the entire Holy Week ceremonies. He liked music, particularly Beethoven, J.S.
Bach, Mozart and Mendelssohn, and read Dante, Alessandro Manzoni and Cicero. His favourite
spiritual reading at this time was Thomas  Kempis's Imitation of Christ and other religious
reading included St. Augustine and the work of the seventeenth century French bishop Bossuet.
Bossuet remained an influence throughout his life.[8]
In 1894, aged 18, Pacelli began his theology studies at the prestigious Tridentine Collegio
Capranica Seminary, and in November of the same year, registered to take a philosophy course
at the Jesuit Gregoriana University. At the end of the first academic year however, in the summer
of 1895, he dropped out of both the Capranica and the Gregorian University. According to his
sister Elisabetta, the food at the Capranica was to blame.[9] Having received a special
dispensation he continued his studies from home under the faculty of the Seminarium Romanum
located in the Palazzo Sant'Appollinaire, later the Lateran University. From 189596, he studied
philosophy at University of Rome La Sapienza. At home he wore his soutane and Roman collar
throughout the day and continued to be influenced by Father Giuseppe Lais, an Oratorian priest,
a figure who had watched over Pacelli's religious progress since the age of eight. In 1899 he
completed his education in "Sacred Theology" with a doctoral degree awarded on the basis of a
short dissertation and an oral examination in Latin.[10]

Church career
Priest and Monsignor

Pacelli on the day of his ordination, 2 April 1899;apart from his post-ordination studies, the
young priest did some part-time work in the field of pastoral care-spiritual counsellor to pupils of
the Cenacle Convent in Rome, as well as a regular visitor to the Convent of the Assumption.
These duties encompassed the only pastoral work he performed during his entire career in the
Church.[11]
While all other candidates from the Rome diocese were ordained in the Basilica of St. John
Lateran,[12] Pacelli was ordained a priest on Easter Sunday, 2 April 1899, alone in the private
oratory of an auxiliary bishop of Rome, by Bishop Francesco di Paola Cassetta, vice-regent of
Rome and a family friend. Pacelli received his first assignment as a curate at Chiesa Nuova.[13] In
1901 he was brought into the Vatican bureaucracy and entered the Congregation for
Extraordinary Ecclesiastical Affairs, a sub-office of the Vatican Secretariat of State. Monsignor
Pietro Gasparri, the recently appointed undersecretary at the Department of Extraordinary
Affairs, had underscored his proposal to Pacelli to work in the 'Vatican's equivalent of the
Foreign office' by highlighting the 'necessity of defending the Church from the onslaughts of
secularism and liberalism throughout Europe.'[11] Pacelli became an apprendista, an apprentice,
in Gasparri's department. In January 1901 he was also chosen, by Pope Leo XIII himself,
according to an official account, to deliver condolences on behalf of the Vatican to Edward VII
of the UK after the death of Queen Victoria.[14]

The Serbian Concordat, 24 June 1914. Present for the Vatican were Cardinal Merry del Val and
next to him, Monsignor Eugenio Pacelli. Pacelli had negotiated and drafted the document over
the previous eighteen months. Cardinal Merry del Val remarked, 'If we say that we cannot trust
the Serbs, all the more reason for pinning them down with a concordat'  "an ominous
foreshadowing of the argument employed by Pacelli to justify the Reich Concordat".[15]
By 1904 Pacelli received his doctorate. The theme of his thesis was the nature of concordats and
the function of canon law when a concordat falls into abeyance. Promoted to the position of
minutante, he prepared digests of reports that had been sent to the Secretariat from all over the
world and in the same year became a papal chamberlain. In 1905 he received the title domestic
prelate.[13] From 1904 until 1916, he assisted Cardinal Pietro Gasparri in his codification of
canon law with the Department of Extraordinary Ecclesiastical Affairs.[16] Canon law, the body
of internal laws of the Catholic Church, had gathered over centuries in a multitude of decrees,

rules, and regulations. The decision to create a code, rather than a compilation or collection of
laws or canons, involved "abstraction, fitting laws to succinct formulae divorced from historical
and social origins"; under Pius X's direction, the Code of Canon Law sought to create
"conformity, centralization, discipline". John Cornwell: " the text, together with the AntiModernist Oath, became the means by which the Holy See was to establish and sustain the new,
unequal, and unprecedented power relationship that had arisen between the papacy and the
Church. Gaspari and Pacelli were its principal architects. The task was to absorb Pacelli for
thirteen years."[17]
In 1908, Pacelli served as a Vatican representative on the International Eucharistic Congress,
accompanying Rafael Merry del Val[18] to London,[14] where he met Winston Churchill.[19] In
1911, he represented the Holy See at the coronation of King George V.[16] Pacelli became the
under-secretary in 1911, adjunct-secretary in 1912 (a position he received under Pope Pius X and
retained under Pope Benedict XV) and secretary of the Department of Extraordinary
Ecclesiastical Affairs in 1914succeeding Gasparri, who was promoted to Cardinal Secretary of
State.[16] On 24 June 1914, just four days before Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria was
assassinated in Sarajevo, Pacelli, together with Cardinal Merry del Val, represented the Vatican
when the Serbian Concordat was signed. Pacelli had negotiated and drafted the document over
the previous eighteen months.[20] Serbia's success in the First Balkan War against Turkey in 1912
had increased the number of Catholics within greater Serbia. At this time Serbia, encouraged by
Russia, was challenging Austria-Hungary's sphere of influence throughout the Balkans. AustriaHungary's protectorate rights were destroyed by the Concordat and the Austrians had attempted
to wreck the negotiations, "but the Vatican,in the person of Pacelli, had pressed the project to a
conclusion."[21] During World War I, Pacelli maintained the Vatican's registry of prisoners of
war. In 1915, he travelled to Vienna to assist Monsignor Raffaele Scapinelli, nuncio to Vienna,
in his negotiations with Franz Joseph I of Austria regarding Italy.[22]

Archbishop and Papal Nuncio
Main article: Nunciature of Eugenio Pacelli

Pacelli at the Headquarters of Wilhelm II
Pope Benedict XV appointed Pacelli as nuncio to Bavaria on 23 April 1917, consecrating him as
titular Bishop of Sardis and immediately elevating him to archbishop in the Sistine Chapel on 13
May 1917. After his consecration, Eugenio Pacelli left for Bavaria. As there was no nuncio to
Prussia or Germany at the time, Pacelli was, for all practical purposes, the nuncio to all of the
German Empire.

Once in Munich, he conveyed the papal initiative to end the war to German authorities.[23] He
met with King Ludwig III on 29 May, and later with Kaiser Wilhelm II[24] and Chancellor
Bethmann-Hollweg, who replied positively to the Papal initiative. However, Bethmann-Hollweg
was forced to resign and the German High Command, hoping for a military victory, delayed the
German reply until 20 September. For the remainder of the war, he concentrated on Benedict's
humanitarian efforts.[25] In the upheaval following the end of the war a disconcerted Pacelli
sought Benedict XV's permission to leave Munich, where Kurt Eisner had declared a socialist
republic, and he left for a while to Rorschach, and a tranquil Swiss sanatorium run by nuns.
Monsignor Schioppa, the uditore, was left in Munich.[26] "His recovery began with a 'rapport'"
with the 24 year old Sister Pasqualina  she would soon be transferred to Munich when Pacelli
"pulled strings at the highest level".[27]
When he returned to Munich, following Eisner's assassination by an anti-semitic nationalist,
Count Arco-Valley, he informed Gasparri-using Schioppa's eye-witness testimony of the chaotic
scene at the former royal palace as the trio of Max Levien, Eugen Levine, and Towia Axelrod
sought power: "the scene was indescribable [-] the confusion totally chaotic [-] in the midst of
all this, a gang of young women, of dubious appearance, Jews like the rest of them hanging
around [-] the boss of this female rabble was Levien's mistress, a young Russian woman, a Jew
and a divorce [-] and it was to her that the nunciature was obliged to pay homage in order to
proceed [-] Levien is a young man, also Russian and a Jew. Pale, dirty, with drugged eyes,
vulgar, repulsive ..." According to Cornwell, a worrying impression of stereotypical anti-Semitic
contempt is discernible in the 'catalogue of epithets describing their physical and moral
repulsiveness' and Pacelli's "constant harping on the Jewishness of this party of power usurpers"
chimed with the "growing and widespread belief among Germans that the Jews were the
instigators of the Bolshevik revolution, their principal aim being the destruction of Christian
civilization".[28] Pacelli informed Gasparri that "the capital of Bavaria, is suffering under a harsh
Jewish-Russian revolutionary tyranny"  but the crisis was soon over, and the Munich Soviet
Republic crushed by Freikorps and Reichswehr troops.

Nuncio Pacelli in July 1924 at the 900th anniversary of the City of Bamberg
Pacelli was appointed Apostolic Nuncio to Germany on 23 June 1920, andafter the completion
of a Bavarian concordathis nunciature was moved to Berlin in August 1925. Many of Pacelli's
Munich staff stayed with him for the rest of his life, including his advisor Robert Leiber and
Pascalina Lehnert  housekeeper, friend, and adviser to Pacelli for 41 years. In Berlin, Pacelli
was Dean of the Diplomatic Corps and active in diplomatic and many social activities. He was
aided by the German priest Ludwig Kaas, who was known for his expertise in Church-state
relations and was a full-time politician, politically active in the Catholic Centre Party, a party he

led following Wilhelm Marx's resignation in October 1928.[29] While in Germany, he travelled to
all regions, attended Katholikentag (national gatherings of the faithful), and delivered some 50
sermons and speeches to the German people.[30] In Berlin he lived in the Tiergarten quarter and
threw parties for the official and diplomatic elite. Paul von Hindenburg, Gustav Stresemann, and
other members of the Cabinet were regular guests.
In post-war Germany, in the absence of a nuncio in Moscow, Pacelli worked also on diplomatic
arrangements between the Vatican and the Soviet Union. He negotiated food shipments for
Russia, where the Church was persecuted. He met with Soviet representatives including Foreign
Minister Georgi Chicherin, who rejected any kind of religious education, the ordination of priests
and bishops, but offered agreements without the points vital to the Vatican.[31]
Despite Vatican pessimism and a lack of visible progress, Pacelli continued the secret
negotiations, until Pius XI ordered them to be discontinued in 1927. Pacelli supported German
diplomatic activity aimed at rejection of punitive measures from victorious former enemies. He
blocked French attempts for an ecclesiastical separation of the Saar region, supported the
appointment of a papal administrator for Danzig and aided the reintegration of priests expelled
from Poland.[32] A Prussian Concordat was signed on 14 June 1929. Following the Wall Street
Crash, the beginnings of a world economic slump appeared, and the days of the Weimar
Republic were numbered. Pacelli was summoned back to Rome at this time  the call coming by
telegram when he was resting at his favourite retreat, the Rorschach convent sanatorium. He left
Berlin on 10 December 1929.[33]

Cardinal Secretary of State and Camerlengo

Eugenio Pacelli, nuncio in Bavaria, visits a group of bishops.
Pacelli was made a Cardinal-Priest of Santi Giovanni e Paolo on 16 December 1929 by Pope
Pius XI, and within a few months, on 7 February 1930, Pius XI appointed him Cardinal
Secretary of State, responsible for foreign policy and state relations throughout the world. In
1935, Pacelli was named Camerlengo of the Holy Roman Church.

As Cardinal Secretary of State, Pacelli signed concordats with a number of countries and states.
Immediately on becoming Cardinal Secretary of State, Pacelli and Ludwig Kaas took up
negotiations on a Baden Concordat which continued until the spring and summer of 1932. Papal
fiat appointed a supporter of Pacelli and his concordat policy, Conrad Grber, the new
Archbishop of Freiburg, and the treaty was signed in August 1932.[34] Others followed: Austria
(1933), Germany (1933), Yugoslavia (1935) and Portugal (1940). The Lateran treaties with Italy
(1929) were concluded before Pacelli became Secretary of State. Roman Catholicism had
become the sole recognized religion; the powerful democratic Catholic Popular Party, in many
ways similar to the Centre Party in Germany, had been disbanded, and in place of political
Catholicism the Holy See encouraged Catholic Action, 'an anaemic form of clerically dominated
religious rally-rousing.' It was permitted only so long as it developed "its activity outside every
political party and in direct dependence upon the Church hierarchy for the dissemination and
implementation of Catholic principles.'[35] Such concordats allowed the Catholic Church to
organize youth groups, make ecclesiastical appointments, run schools, hospitals, and charities, or
even conduct religious services. They also ensured that canon law would be recognized within
some spheres (e.g., church decrees of nullity in the area of marriage).[36]
As the decade began Pacelli wanted the Centre Party in Germany to turn away from the
socialists. In the summer of 1931 he clashed with Catholic chancellor Heinrich Bruning, who
frankly told Pacelli he believed that he "misunderstood the political situation in Germany and the
real character of the Nazis."[37] Following Bruning's resignation in May 1932 Pacelli, like the
new Catholic chancellor Franz von Papen, wondered if the Centre Party should look to the Right
for a coalition, "that would correspond to their principles'.[38] He made many diplomatic visits
throughout Europe and the Americas, including an extensive visit to the United States in 1936
where he met Franklin D. Roosevelt, who appointed a personal envoy  who did not require
Senate confirmation  to the Holy See in December 1939, re-establishing a diplomatic tradition
that had been broken since 1870 when the pope lost temporal power.[39]
Pacelli presided as Papal Legate over the International Eucharistic Congress in Buenos Aires,
Argentina from 1014 October 1934, and in Budapest from 2530 May 1938.[40] At this time,
anti-semitic laws were in the process of being formulated in Hungary. Pacelli made reference to
the Jews "whose lips curse [Christ] and whose hearts reject him even today".[41] This traditional
adversarial relationship with Judaism would be reversed in Nostra Aetate issued during the
Second Vatican Council.[42] According to Joseph Bottum, Pacelli in 1937 "warned A. W.
Klieforth, the American consul to Berlin, that Hitler was "an untrustworthy scoundrel and
fundamentally wicked person"; Klieforth wrote that Pacelli "did not believe Hitler capable of
moderation, and ... fully supported the German bishops in their anti-Nazi stand." A report written
by Pacelli the following year for President Franklin D. Roosevelt and filed with Ambassador
Joseph Kennedy declared that the Church regarded compromise with the Third Reich as "out of
the question".[43]
Historian Walter Bussmann argued that Pacelli, as Cardinal Secretary of State, dissuaded Pope
Pius XI  who was nearing death at the time[44]  from condemning the Kristallnacht in
November 1938,[45] when he was informed of it by the papal nuncio in Berlin.[46] Likewise the
draft encyclical Humani Generis Unitas ("On the Unity of the Human Race"), which was ready
in September 1938 but, according to those responsible for an edition of the document[47] and

other sources, it was not forwarded to the Holy See by the Jesuit General Wlodimir
Ledochowski.[48][49] The draft encyclical contained an open and clear condemnation of
colonialism, racism and antisemitism.[48][50][51]
Historians Passelecq and Suchecky have argued that Pacelli learned about its existence only after
the death of Pius XI and did not promulgate it as Pope.[52] He did use parts of it in his inaugural
encyclical Summi Pontificatus, which he titled "On the Unity of Human Society."[53] His various
positions on Church and policy issues during his tenure as Cardinal Secretary of State were made
public by the Holy See in 1939. Most noteworthy among the 50 speeches is his review of
Church-State issues in Budapest in 1938.[54]

Reichskonkordat and Mit brennender Sorge
See also: Reichskonkordat and Mit brennender Sorge

Pacelli (seated, center) at the signing of the Reichskonkordat on 20 July 1933 in Rome with
(from left to right): German prelate Ludwig Kaas, German Vice-Chancellor Franz von Papen,
Secretary of Extraordinary Ecclesiastical Affairs Giuseppe Pizzardo, Alfredo Ottaviani, and
Reich minister Rudolf Buttmann
The Reichskonkordat was an integral part of four concordats Pacelli concluded on behalf of the
Vatican with German States. The state concordats were necessary because the German federalist
Weimar constitution gave the German states authority in the area of education and culture and
thus diminished the authority of the churches in these areas; this diminution of church authority
was a primary concern of the Vatican. As Bavarian Nuncio, Pacelli negotiated successfully with
the Bavarian authorities in 1925. He expected the concordat with Catholic Bavaria to be the
model for the rest of Germany.[55] Prussia showed interest in negotiations only after the Bavarian
concordat. However, Pacelli obtained less favorable conditions for the Church in the Prussian
concordat of 1929, which excluded educational issues. A concordat with the German state of
Baden was completed by Pacelli in 1932, after he had moved to Rome. There he also negotiated
a concordat with Austria in 1933.[56] A total of 16 concordats and treaties with European states
had been concluded in the ten year period 19221932.[57]
The Reichskonkordat, signed on 20 July 1933, between Germany and the Holy See, while thus a
part of an overall Vatican policy, was controversial from its beginning. It remains the most
important of Pacelli's concordats. It is debated, not because of its content, which is still valid
today, but because of its timing. A national concordat with Germany was one of Pacelli's main

objectives as secretary of state, because he had hoped to strengthen the legal position of the
Church. Pacelli, who knew German conditions well, emphasized in particular protection for
Catholic associations (31), freedom for education and Catholic schools, and freedom for
publications.[58]
As nuncio during the 1920s, he had made unsuccessful attempts to obtain German agreement for
such a treaty, and between 1930 and 1933 he attempted to initiate negotiations with
representatives of successive German governments, but the opposition of Protestant and Socialist
parties, the instability of national governments and the care of the individual states to guard their
autonomy thwarted this aim. In particular, the questions of denominational schools and pastoral
work in the armed forces prevented any agreement on the national level, despite talks in the
winter of 1932.[59][60]
Adolf Hitler was appointed Chancellor on 30 January 1933 and sought to gain international
respectability and to remove internal opposition by representatives of the Church and the
Catholic Centre Party. He sent his vice chancellor Franz von Papen, a Catholic nobleman and
member of the Centre Party, to Rome to offer negotiations about a Reichskonkordat.[61] On
behalf of Pacelli, Prelate Ludwig Kaas, the outgoing chairman of the Centre Party, negotiated
first drafts of the terms with Papen.[62] The concordat was finally signed, by Pacelli for the
Vatican and von Papen for Germany, on 20 July and ratified on 10 September 1933.[63] Father
Franziscus Stratman, senior Catholic chaplain at Berlin University wrote "The souls of welldisposed people are in a turmoil as a result of the tyranny of the National Socialists, and I am
merely stating a fact when I say that the authority of the bishops among innumerable Catholics
and non-Catholics has been shaken by the quasi-approval of the National Socialist
movement".[64] Bishop Preysing cautioned against compromise with the new regime, against
those who saw the Nazi persecution of the church as an aberration that Hitler would correct.[65]
Between 1933 and 1939, Pacelli issued 55 protests of violations of the Reichskonkordat. Most
notably, early in 1937, Pacelli asked several German cardinals, including Cardinal Michael von
Faulhaber to help him write a protest of Nazi violations of the Reichskonkordat; this was to
become Pius XI's 1937 encyclical, Mit brennender Sorge. The encyclical was written in German
and not the usual Latin of official Roman Catholic Church documents. Secretly distributed by an
army of motorcyclists and read from every German Catholic Church pulpit on Palm Sunday, it
condemned the paganism of the National Socialism ideology.[66] Pius XI credited its creation and
writing to Pacelli.[67] It was the first official denunciation of Nazism made by any major
organization and resulted in persecution of the Church by the infuriated Nazis who closed all the
participating presses and "took numerous vindictive measures against the Church, including
staging a long series of immorality trials of the Catholic clergy."[68] On 10 June 1941, the pope
commented on the problems of the Reichskonkordat in a letter to the Bishop of Passau, in
Bavaria: "The history of the Reichskonkordat shows, that the other side lacked the most basic
prerequisites to accept minimal freedoms and rights of the Church, without which the Church
simply cannot live and operate, formal agreements notwithstanding".[69]

Papacy
Election and coronation

The signature of Pius XII never changed[70]
Main article: Papal conclave, 1939
Papal styles of

Pope Pius XII

Reference style

His Holiness

Spoken style

Your Holiness

Religious style

Holy Father

Posthumous style

Venerable

Pius XI died on 10 February 1939. Several historians have interpreted the conclave to choose his
successor as facing a choice between a diplomatic or a spiritual candidate, and they view
Pacelli's diplomatic experience, especially with Germany, as one of the deciding factors in his
election on 2 March 1939, his 63rd birthday, after only one day of deliberation and three
ballots.[71][72] He was the first cardinal secretary of state to be elected Pope since Clement IX in
1667.[73] He was one of only two men known to have served as Camerlengo immediately prior to
being elected as pope (the other being Pope Leo XIII). His coronation took place on 12 March
1939. Upon being elected pope he was also formally the Grand Master of the Equestrian Order
of the Holy Sepulchre of Jerusalem, prefect of the Supreme Sacred Congregation of the Holy
Office, prefect of the Sacred Congregation for the Oriental Churches and prefect of the Sacred
Consistorial Congregation. There was however a Cardinal-Secretary to run these bodies on a
day-to-day basis.
Pacelli took the same papal name as his predecessor, a title used exclusively by Italian Popes. He
was quoted as saying, "I call myself Pius; my whole life was under Popes with this name, but
especially as a sign of gratitude towards Pius XI."[74] On 15 December 1937, during his last
consistory, Pius XI strongly hinted to the cardinals that he expected Pacelli to be his successor,
saying "He is in your midst."[75][76] He had previously been quoted as saying: "When today the
Pope dies, you'll get another one tomorrow, because the Church continues. It would be a much
bigger tragedy, if Cardinal Pacelli dies, because there is only one. I pray every day, God may
send another one into one of our seminaries, but as of today, there is only one in this world."[77]

Appointments

Pascalina Lehnert, born Josefina Lehnert 25 August 1894, the seventh of twelve children, near
the village of Ebersberg in Bavaria, Pius XII's housekeeper and confidant from his time as
nuncio to Germany, she followed him to Rome. 'They lived under the same roof for 41 years.'[12]
After his election, he made Luigi Maglione his successor as Cardinal Secretary of State. Cardinal
Maglione, a seasoned Vatican diplomat, had reestablished diplomatic relations with Switzerland
and was for many years nuncio in Paris. Yet, Maglione did not exercise the influence of his
predecessor Pacelli, who as Pope continued his close relation with Monsignors Montini (later
Pope Paul VI) and Domenico Tardini. After the death of Maglione in 1944, Pius left the position
open and named Tardini head of its foreign section and Montini head of the internal section.[78]
Tardini and Montini continued serving there until 1953, when Pius XII decided to appoint them
cardinals,[79] an honor which both turned down.[80] They were then later appointed to be ProSecretary with the privilege to wear Episcopal Insignia.[81] Tardini continued to be a close coworker of the Pope until the death of Pius XII, while Montini became archbishop of Milan, after
the death of Alfredo Ildefonso Schuster.
Pius XII slowly eroded the Italian monopoly on the Roman Curia; he employed German and
Dutch Jesuit advisors, Robert Leiber, Augustin Bea, and Sebastian Tromp. He also supported the
elevation of Americans such as Cardinal Francis Spellman from a minor to a major role in the
Church.[82][83] After World War II, Pius XII appointed more non-Italians than any Pope before
him. American appointees included Joseph P. Hurley as regent of the nunciature in Belgrade,
Gerald P. O'Hara as nuncio to Romania, and Monsignor Muench as nuncio to Germany. For the
first time, numerous young Europeans, Asians and "Americans were trained in various
congregations and secretariats within the Vatican for eventual service throughout the world."[84]

Consistories
Further information: Category:Cardinals created by Pope Pius XII
Only twice in his pontificate did Pius XII hold a consistory to create new cardinals, in contrast to
Pius XI, who had done so 17 times in as many years. Pius XII chose not to name new cardinals
during World War II, and the number of cardinals shrank to 38, with Dennis Joseph Dougherty
of Philadelphia being the only living U.S. cardinal. The first occasion on 18 February 1946 
which has become known as the "Grand Consistory"  yielded the elevation of a record 32 new

cardinals, almost 50 percent of the College of Cardinals and reaching the canonical limit of 70
cardinals.[85] In the 1946 consistory, Pius XII, while maintaining the maximum size of the
College of Cardinals at 70, named cardinals from China, India, the Middle East and increased the
number of Cardinals from the Americas, proportionally lessening the Italian influence.[86]
In his second consistory on 12 January 1953, it was expected that his closest co-workers, Msgrs.
Domenico Tardini and Giovanni Montini would be elevated[87] and Pius XII informed the
assembled cardinals that both of them were originally on the top of his list,[88] but they had
turned down the offer, and were rewarded instead with other promotions.[89] The two consistories
of 1946 and 1953 brought an end to over five hundred years of Italians constituting a majority of
the College of Cardinals.[90]
With few exceptions, Italian prelates accepted the changes positively; there was no protest
movement or open opposition to the internationalization efforts.[91]

Church reforms
Liturgy reforms
Main articles: Liturgical reforms of Pope Pius XII and Mediator Dei
In his encyclical Mediator Dei, Pius XII links liturgy with the last will of Jesus Christ.

 But it is His will, that the worship He instituted and practiced during His life on earth shall
continue ever afterwards without intermission. For he has not left mankind an orphan. He
still offers us the support of His powerful, unfailing intercession, acting as our "advocate
with the Father." He aids us likewise through His Church, where He is present indefectibly
as the ages run their course: through the Church which He constituted "the pillar of truth"
and dispenser of grace, and which by His sacrifice on the cross, He founded, consecrated

and confirmed forever.[92]
The Church has, therefore, according to Pius XII, a common aim with Christ himself, teaching
all men the truth, and, offering to God a pleasing and acceptable sacrifice. This way, the Church
re-establishes the unity between the Creator and His creatures.[93] The sacrifice of the altar, being
Christ's own actions, convey and dispense divine grace from Christ to the members of the
Mystical Body.[94]

Pope Pius XII seated in the Sedia Gestatoria
The numerous reforms of Pius XII show two characteristics. Renewal and rediscovery of old
liturgical traditions, such as the reintroduction of the Easter Vigil, and, a more structured
atmosphere within the Church buildings. The use of vernacular language, favoured by Pius XII,
was hotly debated at his time. He increased non-Latin services, especially in countries with
expanding Catholic mission activities. The church tabernacle holding the Blessed Sacrament
should be immovably fixed to the altar and, unless another position was thought to be more
appropriate, should normally be at the main altar.[95] The Church should display religious objects,
but not be overloaded with secondary objects. Modern sacred art should be reverential and
reflect the spirit of our time.[96] Priests are permitted to officiate marriages without Holy Mass.
They may also officiate confirmations in certain instances.[97]

Canon Law Reforms
Main article: Pope Pius XII reforms of Eastern Canon Law
Decentralized authority and increased independence of the Uniate Churches were aimed at in the
Canon Law/Corpis Iuris Canonici (CIC) reform. In its new constitutions, Eastern Patriarchs were
made almost independent from Rome (CIC Orientalis, 1957) Eastern marriage law (CIC
Orientalis, 1949), civil law (CIC Orientalis, 1950), laws governing religious associations (CIC
Orientalis, 1952) property law (CIC Orientalis, 1952) and other laws. These reforms and writings
of Pius XII were intended to establish Eastern Orientals as equal parts of the mystical body of
Christ, as explained in the encyclical Mystici Corporis.

Priests and Religious
With the Apostolic constitution Sedis Sapientiae, Pius XII added social sciences, sociology,
psychology and social psychology, to the pastoral training of future priests. Pius XII emphasised

the need to systematically analyze the psychological condition of candidates to the priesthood to
ensure that they are capable of a life of celibacy and service.[98] Pius XII added one year to the
theological formation of future priests. He included a "pastoral year", an introduction into the
practice of parish work.[99]
Pius XII wrote in Menti Nostrae that the call to constant interior reform and Christian heroism
means to be above average, to be a living example of Christian virtue. The strict norms
governing their lives are meant to make them models of Christian perfection for lay people, he
writes in .[100] Bishops are encouraged to look at model saints like Boniface, and Pope Pius X.[101]
Priests were encouraged to be living examples of the love of Christ and his sacrifice.[102]

Theology
Main article: Theology of Pope Pius XII

Ftima Statue of Pope Pius XII, who consecrated Russia and the World: Just as a few years ago
We consecrated the entire human race to the Immaculate Heart of the Virgin Mary, Mother of
God, so today We consecrate and in a most special manner We entrust all the peoples of Russia
to this Immaculate Heart...
Pius XII explained the Catholic faith in 41 encyclicals and almost 1000 messages and speeches
during his long pontificate. Mediator Dei clarified membership and participation in the Church.
The encyclical Divino Afflante Spiritu opened the doors for biblical research. His magisterium
was far larger and is difficult to summarize. In numerous speeches Catholic teaching is related to
various aspects of life, education, medicine, politics, war and peace, the life of saints, Mary, the
Mother of God, things eternal and contemporary. Theologically, Pius XII specified the nature of
the teaching authority of the Church. He also gave a new freedom to engage in theological
investigations.[103]

Theological orientation
Biblical Research
Main article: Divino Afflante Spiritu
The encyclical Divino Afflante Spiritu, published in 1943,[104] emphasized the role of the Bible.
Pius XII freed biblical research from previous limitations. He encouraged Christian theologians
to revisit original versions of the Bible in Greek and Hebrew. Noting improvements in
archaeology, the encyclical reversed Pope Leo XIII's encyclical, which had only advocated going
back to the original texts to resolve ambiguity in the Latin Vulgate. The encyclical demands a
much better understanding of ancient Jewish history and traditions. It requires bishops
throughout the Church to initiate biblical studies for lay people. The Pontiff also requests a
reorientation of Catholic teaching and education, relying much more on sacred scriptures in
sermons and religious instruction.[105]
The role of theology
This theological investigative freedom does not, however, extend to all aspects of theology.
According to Pius, theologians, employed by the Church, are assistants, to teach the official
teachings of the Church and not their own private thoughts. They are free to engage in empirical
research, which the Church generously supports, but in matters of morality and religion, they are
subjected to the teaching office and authority of the Church, the Magisterium. "The most noble
office of theology is to show how a doctrine defined by the Church is contained in the sources of
revelation, ... in that sense in which it has been defined by the Church."[106] The deposit of faith is
authentically interpreted not to each of the faithful, not even to theologians, but only to the
teaching authority of the Church.[107]

Mariology and the Dogma of the Assumption

On 1 November 1950, Pius XII defined the dogma of the assumption (Titian's Assunta (151618)
pictured).
World Consecration to the Immaculate Heart of Mary
Main article: Pope Pius XII Consecration to the Immaculate Heart of Mary
As a young boy and in later life, Pacelli was an ardent follower of the Virgin Mary. He was
consecrated as a bishop on 13 May 1917, the very first day of the apparitions of Our Lady of
Ftima. He consecrated the world to the Immaculate Heart of Mary in 1942, in accordance with
the second "secret" of Our Lady of Ftima. His remains were to be buried in the crypt of Saint
Peter's Basilica on the feast day of Our Lady of Ftima, 13 October 1958.
The Dogma of the Assumption of Our Lady
Main article: Munificentissimus Deus
On 1 November 1950, Pope Pius XII defined the dogma of the Assumption:

 By the authority of our Lord Jesus Christ, of the Blessed Apostles Peter and Paul, and by
our own authority, we pronounce, declare, and define it to be a divinely revealed dogma:
that the Immaculate Mother of God, the ever Virgin Mary, having completed the course of
her earthly life, was assumed body and soul into heavenly glory.[108]
The dogma of the bodily assumption of the Virgin Mary is the crowning of the theology of Pius
XII. It resolved a theological difficulty that the dogma of the Immaculate Conception had left
open: if the soul of Mary had been created without the taint of sin, yet the Bible states that the
wages of sin is death, should it be concluded that Mary, who by definition never sinned,
therefore never died? The dogma of her assumption settles the problem by stating that she did
not experience the ordinary human death, but was taken to Heaven as a divine gift. The dogma
was preceded by the 1946 encyclical Deiparae Virginis Mariae, which requested all Catholic
bishops to express their opinion on a possible dogmatization. On 8 September 1953, the
encyclical Fulgens corona announced a Marian year for 1954, the centennial of the Dogma of
the Immaculate Conception.[109] In the encyclical Ad caeli reginam he promulgated the
Queenship of Mary feast.[110] Mystici Corporis summarizes his mariology.[111]

Social teachings



Coronation of the Salus Populi Romani by Pope Pius XII in 1954
Main article: Social teachings of Pope Pius XII
Medical theology
Pius XII delivered numerous speeches to medical professionals and researchers.[112] He
addressed doctors, nurses, midwives, to detail all aspects of rights and dignity of patients,
medical responsibilities, moral implications of psychological illnesses and the uses of psycho
pharmaca. He also took on issues like the uses of medicine in terminally ill persons, medical lies
in face of grave illness, and the rights of family members to make decisions against expert
medical advice. Pope Pius XII often reconsidered previously accepted truth, thus he was first to
determine that the use of pain medicine in terminally ill patients is justified, even if this may
shorten the life of the patient, as long as life shortening is not the objective itself.[113]
Family and sexuality
Pope Pius XII developed an extensive theology of the family, taking issue with family roles,
sharing of household duties, education of children, conflict resolution, financial dilemmas,
psychological problems, illness, taking care of older generations, unemployment, marital
holiness and virtue, common prayer, religious discussions and more. Within the overall divine
purpose of family life, he fully accepted the rhythm method as a moral form of family planning,
although only limited circumstances, within the context of family.[114]
Theology and science
To Pius XII, science and religion were heavenly sisters, different manifestations of divine
exactness, who could not possibly contradict each other over the long term[115] Regarding their
relation, his advisor Professor Robert Leiber wrote: "Pius XII was very careful not to close any
doors prematurely. He was energetic on this point and regretted that in the case of Galileo".[116]
Evolution
Main article: Humani generis
In 1950, Pius XII promulgated Humani Generis which acknowledged that evolution might
accurately describe the biological origins of human life, but at the same time criticized those who
"imprudently and indiscreetly hold that evolution... explains the origin of all things". Catholics
must believe that the human soul was created immediately by God. Since the soul is a spiritual
substance it is not brought into being through transformation of matter, but directly by God,
whence the special uniqueness of each person.."[117] Fifty years later, Pope John Paul II, stating
that scientific evidence now seemed to favour the evolutionary theory, upheld the distinction of
Pius XII regarding the human soul. "Even if the human body originates from pre-existent living
matter, the spiritual soul is spontaneously created by God."[118]

Encyclicals, writings and speeches
Main articles: List of encyclicals of Pope Pius XII and Magisterium of Pius XII

In 1939 Pius XII placed his pontificate under the maternal care of Our Lady of Good Counsel
and composed a prayer to her.[119][120] This 19th-century painting is by Pasquale Sarullo.
Pius XII issued 41 encyclicals during his pontificate  more than all his successors in the past 50
years taken together  along with many other writings and speeches. The pontificate of Pius XII
was the first in Vatican history, which published papal speeches and addresses in vernacular
language on a systematic basis. Until then, papal documents were issued mainly in Latin in Acta
Apostolicae Sedis since 1909. Because of the novelty of it all, and a feared occupation of the
Vatican by the German Wehrmacht, not all documents exist today. In 1944, a number of papal
documents were burned or "walled in",[121] to avoid detection by the advancing German army.
Insisting that all publications must be reviewed by him on a prior basis to avoid any
misunderstanding, several speeches by Pius XII, who did not find sufficient time, were never
published or appeared only once issued in the Vatican daily, Osservatore Romano.
Several encyclicals addressed the Oriental Churches. Orientalis Ecclesiae was issued in 1944 on
the 15th centenary of the death of Cyril of Alexandria, a saint common to Orthodox and Latin
Churches. Pius XII asks for prayer for better understanding and unification of the Churches.
Orientales Omnes, issued in 1945 on the 350th anniversary of the reunion, is a call to continued
unity of the Ruthenian Church, threatened in its very existence by the authorities of the Soviet
Union. Sempiternus Rex was issued in 1951 on the 1500th anniversary of the Ecumenical
Council of Chalcedon. It included a call to oriental communities adhering to monophysitism to
return to the Catholic Church. Orientales Ecclesias was issued in 1952 and addressed to the
Eastern Churches, protesting the continued Stalinist persecution of the Church. Several Apostolic
Letters were sent to the bishops in the East. On 13 May 1956, Pope Pius addressed all bishops of
the Eastern Rite. Mary, the mother of God, was the subject of encyclical letters to the people of
Russia in Fulgens Corona, as well as a papal letter to the people of
Russia.[122][123][124][125][126][127][128]

Feasts and devotions
In 1958, Pope Pius XII declared the Feast of the Holy Face of Jesus as Shrove Tuesday (the
Tuesday before Ash Wednesday) for all Roman Catholics. The first medal of the Holy Face,

produced by Sister Maria Pierina De Micheli, based on the image on the Shroud of Turin had
been offered to Pius XII who approved of the medal and the devotion based on it. The general
devotion to the Holy Face of Jesus had been approved by Pope Leo XIII in 1885 before the
image on the Turin Shroud had been photographed.[129][130]

Canonisations and beatifications
Main articles: Saints canonized by Pope Pius XII and Beatifications of Pope Pius XII
Pope Pius XII canonized numerous people, including Pope Pius X-"both were determined to
stamp out, as far as possible, all traces of dangerous heterodoxy"[131]- and Maria Goretti. He
beatified Pope Innocent XI. The first canonizations were two women, the founder of a female
order, Mary Euphrasia Pelletier, and a young housekeeper said to have stigmata, Gemma
Galgani. Pelletier had a reputation for opening new ways for Catholic charities, helping people in
difficulties with the law, who had been neglected by the system and the Church. Galgani was a
woman in her twenties whose virtue became model by her canonization.[132]

World War II

The investments of Bernardino Nogara were critical to the financing of the papacy during World
War II.
Main article: Vatican City during World War II
As Cardinal Secretary of State, Pacelli signed a Concordat between Germany and the Vatican at
a ceremony in Rome on 20 July 1933. His pontificate began on the eve of World War II. In the
1937 encyclical Mit brennender Sorge, drafted by Pope Pius XII when he was still a cardinal,[67]
Pope Pius XI denounced Nazism and breaches of the Reichskonkordat. Read from the pulpits of
all German Catholic churches, it has been described as the first official denunciation of Nazism
made by any major organization.[68] Nazi persecution of the Church in Germany then began by
"outright repression" and "staged prosecutions of monks for homosexuality, with the maximum
of publicity."[133] When Dutch bishops protested against the deportation of Jews, the Nazis
responded by deporting Jewish converts, including Edith Stein.[68]

In Poland, the Nazis murdered over 2,500 monks and priests and others were sent to
concentration camps.[133] The Priester-Block (priests barracks) in the Dachau concentration camp
lists 2,600 Roman Catholic priests.[66] Pius XII's refusal to censure the German invasion and
annexation of Poland was regarded as a "betrayal" by many Polish Catholics and clergy, who
saw his appointment of Hilarius Breitinger as apostolic administrator for the Wartheland in May
1942 as "implicit recognition" of the breakup of Poland; the opinions of the Volksdeutsche,
mostly German Catholic minorities living in Poland, were more mixed.[134] Although Pius XII
received frequent reports about atrocities committed by and/or against Catholics, his knowledge
was incomplete; for example, he wept after the war on learning that Cardinal Hlond had banned
German liturgical services in Poland.[135] Phayer argues that Pius XII  both before and during
his papacy  consistently "deferred to Germany at the expense of Poland", and saw Germany 
not Poland  as critical to "rebuilding a large Catholic presence in Central Europe".[136]
During the war, the Pope followed a policy of public neutrality mirroring that of Pope Benedict
XV during World War I. In 1939, Pius XII turned the Vatican into a centre of aid which he
organized from various parts of the world[137] At the request of the Pope, an information office
for prisoners of war and refugees operated in the Vatican under Giovanni Battista Montini,
which in the years of its existence from 1939 until 1947 received almost 10 million (9,891,497)
information requests and produced over 11 million (11,293,511) answers about missing
persons.[138]
In April 1939, after the submission of Charles Maurras and the intervention of the Carmel of
Lisieux, Pius XII ended his predecessor's ban on Action Franaise, an organization described by
some authors as virulently antisemitic and anti-Communist.[139][140] In 1939, the Pope employed a
Jewish cartographer, Roberto Almagia, to work on old maps in the Vatican library. Almagia had
been at the University of Rome since 1915 but was dismissed after Benito Mussolini's
antisemitic legislation of 1938. The Pope's appointment of two Jews to the Vatican Academy of
Science as well as the hiring of Almagia were reported by The New York Times in the editions of
11 November 1939, and 10 January 1940.[141]
During the Soviet Union's acts of aggression against Finland, the Winter War, Pius XII
condemned the Soviet attack on 26 December 1939 in a speech at the Vatican. Later he donated
a signed and sealed prayer on behalf of Finland.[142]
On 18 January 1940, after more than 15,000 Polish civilians had been killed, Pius XII said in a
radio broadcast, "The horror and inexcusable excesses committed on a helpless and a homeless
people have been established by the unimpeachable testimony of eye-witnesses."[143] In his first
encyclical, Summi Pontificatus (20 October 1939), Pius XII publicly condemned the invasion,
occupation and partition of Poland under the Nazi-Soviet Molotov-Ribbentrop Pact.

 The blood of countless human beings, even noncombatants, raises a piteous dirge over a
nation such as Our dear Poland, which, for its fidelity to the Church, for its services in the
defense of Christian civilization, written in indelible characters in the annals of history, has
a right to the generous and brotherly sympathy of the whole world, while it awaits, relying
on the powerful intercession of Mary, Help of Christians, the hour of a resurrection in

harmony with the principles of justice and true peace.

 Summi Pontificatus, p. 106.

Time magazine reported that France and Britain were favourably surprised by the encyclical.[144]
On 11 March 1940, the Pope had a personal meeting with German Minister of Foreign Affairs
Joachim Ribbentrop, who was visiting Rome. During that meeting, The German Foreign
Minister suggested to the Pope an overall settlement between the Vatican and the Reich
government in exchange for the Pope instructing the German bishops to refrain from political
criticism of the German government, but no agreement was reached. The Vatican diplomatic
record of the meeting describes what transpired as follows:
He (Ribbentrop) answered that at the bottom it is a question of a revolution and that compared
with other revolutions the National Socialist Revolution has not caused grave harm to the
churches. To which the Pope replied that in reality there had been many injuries  and he
continued to point out examples. Ribbentrop underlined that the State spends a great deal for the
clergy and the Church. The Pope replied that a great deal has been taken away from the Church,
houses, institutions of education  kicking out the legitimate owners malo modo in a few hours.
The Holy Father insisted particularly on the schools.[145]
After Germany invaded the Low Countries during 1940, Pius XII sent expressions of sympathy
to the Queen of the Netherlands, the King of Belgium, and the Grand Duchess of Luxembourg.
When Mussolini learned of the warnings and the telegrams of sympathy, he took them as a
personal affront and had his ambassador to the Vatican file an official protest, charging that Pius
XII had taken sides against Italy's ally Germany. Mussolini's foreign minister claimed that Pius
XII was "ready to let himself be deported to a concentration camp, rather than do anything
against his conscience."[146]
In the spring of 1940, a group of German generals seeking to overthrow Hitler and make peace
with the British approached Pope Pius XII, who acted as a negotiator between the British and the
abortive plot.[147] On 13 June 1940, while the battle of France was still raging, the Pope issued
encyclical Saeculo Exeunte Octavo, which, though relating to Portugal, made an ambiguous
statement about the general situation in the following words: "now, when more than a few
European nations have been lost to the Church because of the changes in these calamitous
times", referring to the German occupation.[148]
In April 1941, Pius XII granted a private audience to Ante Paveli, the leader of the newly
proclaimed Croatian state (rather than the diplomatic audience Paveli had wanted).[149] Pius was
criticised for his reception of Paveli: an unattributed British Foreign Office memo on the subject
described Pius as "the greatest moral coward of our age."[150] The Vatican did not officially
recognise Paveli's regime. Pius XII did not publicly condemn the expulsions and forced
conversions to Catholicism perpetrated on Serbs by Paveli;[151] however, the Holy See did
expressly repudiate the forced conversions in a memorandum dated 25 January 1942, from the
Vatican Secretiat of State to the Yugoslavian Legation.[152] The pope was well-informed of
Catholic clergy involvement with the Ustae regime, even possessing a list of clergymembers
who had "joined in the slaughter", but decided against condemning the regime or taking action
against the involved clergy, fearing that it would lead to schism in the Croatian church or

undermine the formation of a future Croatian state.[153] Pius XII elevated Aloysius Stepinac  a
Croatian archbishop convicted of collaborating with the Ustae  to the cardinalate.[154] Phayer
agrees that Stepinac's was a "show trial", but states "the charge that he [Pius XII] supported the
Ustaa regime was, of course, true, as everyone knew",[155] and that "if Stepinac had responded to
the charges against him, his defense would have inevitably unraveled, exposing the Vatican's
support of the genocidal Paveli."[156]
In 1941, Pius XII interpreted Divini Redemptoris, an encyclical of Pope Pius XI, which forbade
Catholics to help communists, as not applying to military assistance to the Soviet Union. This
interpretation assuaged American Roman Catholics who had previously opposed Lend-Lease
arrangements with the Soviet Union.[157]
In March 1942, Pius XII established diplomatic relations with the Japanese Empire and received
ambassador Ken Harada, who remained in that position until the end of the war.[158][159] In May
1942, Kazimierz Pape, Polish ambassador to the Vatican, complained that Pius had failed to
condemn the recent wave of atrocities in Poland; when Cardinal Secretary of State Maglione
replied that the Vatican could not document individual atrocities, Pape declared, "when
something becomes notorious, proof is not required."[160]
In June 1942, diplomatic relations were established with the Nationalist government of China.
This step was envisaged earlier, but delayed due to Japanese pressure to establish relations with
the pro-Japanese Wang Jingwei government. The first Chinese Minister to the Vatican, Hsieh
Shou-kang, was only able to arrive at the Vatican in January 1943, due to difficulties of travel
resulting from the war. He remained in that position until late 1946.[161]
Pius XII's 1942 Christmas address via Vatican Radio remains a "lightning rod" in debates about
Pius XII.[162] The majority of the speech spoke generally about human rights and civil society; at
the very end of the speech, Pius XII mentioned "the hundreds of thousands of persons who,
without any fault on their part, sometimes only because of their nationality or race, have been
consigned to death or to a slow decline".[163]
The Nazis themselves responded to the speech by stating that it was "one long attack on
everything we stand for....He is clearly speaking on behalf of the Jews....He is virtually accusing
the German people of injustice toward the Jews, and makes himself the mouthpiece of the Jewish
war criminals." The New York Times wrote that "The voice of Pius XII is a lonely voice in the
silence and darkness enveloping Europe this Christmas....In calling for a 'real new order' based
on 'liberty, justice, and love,'...the pope put himself squarely against Hitlerism."[164] Historian
Michael Phayer claims, however, that "it is still not clear whose genocide or which genocide he
was referring to".[165]
Several authors have alleged a plot to kidnap Pius XII by the Nazis during their occupation of
Rome in 1943 (Vatican City itself was not occupied); British historian Owen Chadwick and the
Jesuit ADSS editor Rev. Robert Graham each concluded such claims were an invention of
British wartime propagandists.[166][167] However, in 2007, subsequent to those accounts, Dan
Kurzman published a work which he maintains establishes that the plot was a fact.[168]

As the war was approaching its end in 1945, Pius advocated a lenient policy by the Allied leaders
in an effort to prevent what he perceived to be the mistakes made at the end of World War I.[169]
In August 1944, he met British Prime Minister Winston Churchill, who was visiting Rome. At
their meeting, the Pope expressed the hope that planned war crimes trials would not include
Italian defendants, since he considered the Italians as victims of the Third Reich.[170]

Holocaust

Cesare Orsenigo, Pius XII's nuncio to Germany throughout World War II, with Hitler and
Joachim von Ribbentrop.
Main articles: Pope Pius XII and the Holocaust, Pope Pius XII and Judaism, and Pope Pius XII
and the Roman razzia
In 1939, the newly elected Pope Pius XII appointed several prominent Jewish scholars to posts at
the Vatican after they had been dismissed from Italian universities under Fascist leader Benito
Mussolini's racial laws.[171] Pius later engineered an agreementformally approved on 23 June
1939  with Brazilian President Getlio Vargas to issue 3,000 visas to "non-Aryan Catholics".
However, over the next 18 months Brazil's Conselho de Imigrao e Colonizao (CIC)
continued to tighten the restrictions on their issuance, including requiring a baptismal certificate
dated before 1933, a substantial monetary transfer to the Banco do Brasil, and approval by the
Brazilian Propaganda Office in Berlin. The program was cancelled 14 months later, after fewer
than 1,000 visas had been issued, amid suspicions of "improper conduct" (i.e., continuing to
practice Judaism) among those who had received visas.[46][172]
Cardinal Secretary of State Luigi Maglione received a request from Chief Rabbi of Palestine
Isaac Herzog in the spring of 1940 to intercede on behalf of Lithuanian Jews about to be
deported to Germany.[46] Pius called Ribbentrop on 11 March, repeatedly protesting against the
treatment of Jews.[140] In his 1939 encyclical Summi Pontificatus, Pius rejected anti-semitism,
stating that in the Catholic Church there is "neither Gentile nor Jew, circumcision nor
uncircumcision."[173] In 1940, Pius asked members of the clergy, on Vatican letterhead, to do
whatever they could on behalf of interned Jews.[174]
In 1941, Cardinal Theodor Innitzer of Vienna informed Pius of Jewish deportations in
Vienna.[175] Later that year, when asked by French Marshal Philippe Ptain if the Vatican
objected to antisemitic laws, Pius responded that the church condemned antisemitism, but would
not comment on specific rules.[175] Similarly, when Philippe Ptain's regime adopted the "Jewish
statutes", the Vichy ambassador to the Vatican, Lon Brard (a French politician), was told that

the legislation did not conflict with Catholic teachings.[176] Valerio Valeri, the nuncio to France
was "embarrassed" when he learned of this publicly from Ptain[177] and personally checked the
information with Cardinal Secretary of State Maglione[178] who confirmed the Vatican's
position.[179] In June 1942, Pius personally protested against the mass deportations of Jews from
France, ordering the papal nuncio to protest to Ptain against "the inhuman arrests and
deportations of Jews".[180] In September 1941, Pius objected to a Slovakian Jewish Code,[181]
which, unlike the earlier Vichy codes, prohibited intermarriage between Jews and non-Jews.[182]
In October 1941, Harold Tittman, a U.S. delegate to the Vatican, asked the pope to condemn the
atrocities against Jews; Pius replied that the Vatican wished to remain "neutral,"[183] reiterating
the neutrality policy which Pius invoked as early as September 1940.[176]
In 1942, the Slovakian charg d'affaires told Pius that Slovakian Jews were being sent to
concentration camps.[175] On 11 March 1942, several days before the first transport was due to
leave, the charg d'affaires in Bratislava reported to the Vatican: "I have been assured that this
atrocious plan is the handwork of ... Prime Minister (Tuka), who confirmed the plan ... he dared
to tell me  he who makes such a show of his Catholicism  that he saw nothing inhuman or
un-Christian in it ... the deportation of 80,000 persons to Poland, is equivalent to condemning a
great number of them to certain death." The Vatican protested to the Slovak government that it
"deplore(s) these... measures which gravely hurt the natural human rights of persons, merely
because of their race."[184]
On 18 September 1942, Pius received a letter from Monsignor Montini (future Pope Paul VI),
saying, "the massacres of the Jews reach frightening proportions and forms."[175] Later that
month, Myron Taylor, U.S. representative to the Vatican, warned Pius that the Vatican's "moral
prestige" was being injured by silence on European atrocities, a warning which was echoed
simultaneously by representatives from the United Kingdom, Brazil, Uruguay, Belgium, and
Poland.[185] The Cardinal Secretary of State replied that the rumors about genocide could not be
verified.[186] In December 1942, when Tittman asked Cardinal Secretary of State Maglione if
Pius would issue a proclamation similar to the Allied declaration "German Policy of
Extermination of the Jewish Race", Maglione replied that the Vatican was "unable to denounce
publicly particular atrocities."[187] Pius XII directly explained to Tittman that he could not name
the Nazis without at the same time mentioning the Bolsheviks.[188]
Pius XII never publicly condemned the Nazi massacre of 1,800,0001,900,000 Poles,
overwhelmingly Roman Catholic (including 2,935 members of the Catholic clergy),[189][190] nor
did he ever publicly condemn the Soviet Union for the deaths of 1,000,000 Poles including an
untold number of clergy.[191] In late 1942, Pius XII advised German and Hungarian bishops to
speak out against the massacres on the Eastern Front.[192] In his 1942 Christmas Eve message, he
expressed strong concern for "those hundreds of thousands, who ... sometimes only by reason of
their nationality or race, are marked down for death or progressive extinction.[193] On 7 April
1943, Msgr. Tardini, one of Pius' closest advisors, told Pius that it would be politically
advantageous after the war to take steps to help Slovakian Jews.[194]
In January 1943, Pius declined to publicly denounce the Nazi discrimination against Jews,
following requests to do so from Wadysaw Raczkiewicz, president of the Polish governmentin-exile, and Bishop Konrad von Preysing of Berlin.[195] On 26 September 1943, following the

German occupation of northern Italy, Nazi officials gave Jewish leaders in Rome 36 hours to
produce 50 kilograms of gold (or the equivalent) threatening to take 300 hostages. Then Chief
Rabbi of Rome Israel Zolli recounts in his memoir that he was selected to go to the Vatican and
seek help.[196] The Vatican offered to loan 15 kilos, but the offer proved unnecessary when the
Jews received an extension.[197] Soon afterward, when deportations from Italy were imminent,
477 Jews were hidden in the Vatican itself and another 4,238 were protected in Roman
monasteries and convents.[198] Eighty percent of Roman Jews were saved from deportation.[199]
Phayer argues that the German diplomats in Rome were the "initiators of the effort to save the
city's Jews", but holds that Pius XII "cooperated in this attempt at rescue", while agreeing with
Zuccotti that the pope "did not give orders" for any Roman Catholic institution to hide Jews.[200]
On 30 April 1943, Pius wrote to Bishop Graf von Preysing of Berlin to say: "We give to the
pastors who are working on the local level the duty of determining if and to what degree the
danger of reprisals and of various forms of oppression occasioned by episcopal declarations... ad
maiora mala vitanda (to avoid worse)... seem to advise caution. Here lies one of the reasons,
why We impose self-restraint on Ourselves in our speeches; the experience, that we made in
1942 with papal addresses, which We authorized to be forwarded to the Believers, justifies our
opinion, as far as We see.... The Holy See has done whatever was in its power, with charitable,
financial and moral assistance. To say nothing of the substantial sums which we spent in
American money for the fares of immigrants."[201]
On 28 October 1943, Ernst von Weizscker, the German Ambassador to the Vatican,
telegrammed Berlin that "...the Pope has not yet let himself be persuaded to make an official
condemnation of the deportation of the Roman Jews.... Since it is currently thought that the
Germans will take no further steps against the Jews in Rome, the question of our relations with
the Vatican may be considered closed."[202][203]
In March 1944, through the papal nuncio in Budapest, Angelo Rotta, the pope urged the
Hungarian government to moderate its treatment of the Jews.[204] The pope ordered Rotta and
other papal legates to hide and shelter Jews.[205] These protests, along with others from the King
of Sweden, the International Red Cross, the United States, and Britain led to the cessation of
deportations on 8 July 1944.[206] Also in 1944, Pius appealed to 13 Latin American governments
to accept "emergency passports", although it also took the intervention of the U.S. State
Department for those countries to honor the documents.[207] The Kaltenbrunner Report to Hitler,
dated 29 November 1944, against the backdrop of the 20 July 1944 Plot to assassinate Hitler,
states that the Pope was somehow a conspirator, specifically naming Eugenio Pacelli (Pope Pius
XII), as being a party in the attempt.[208]

PostWorld War II
Further information: Pope Pius XII foreign relations after World War II, Persecutions of the
Catholic Church and Pius XII, Pope Pius XII and Russia, Pope Pius XII and China, and Pope
Pius XII and Poland
Bishop Aloisius Joseph Muench, Pius XII's post-war liaison to the Office of Military
Government, United States

After World War II Pope Pius XII focused on material aid to war-torn Europe, an internal
internationalization of the Roman Catholic Church, and the development of its worldwide
diplomatic relations. His encyclicals, Evangelii Praecones and Fidei Donum, issued on 2 June
1951 and 21 April 1957, respectively, increased the local decision-making of Catholic missions,
many of which became independent dioceses. Pius XII demanded recognition of local cultures as
fully equal to European culture.[209][210] Continuing the line of his predecessors, Pius XII
supported the establishment of local administration in Church affairs: in 1950, the hierarchy of
Western Africa became independent; in 1951, Southern Africa; and in 1953, British East Africa.
Finland, Burma and French Africa became independent dioceses in 1955.
Jewish orphans controversy
Main article: Jewish orphans controversy
In 2005, Corriere della Sera published a document dated 20 November 1946 on the subject of
Jewish children baptized in war-time France. The document ordered that baptized children, if
orphaned, should be kept in Catholic custody and stated that the decision "has been approved by
the Holy Father". Nuncio Angelo Roncalli (who became Pope John XXIII, and was recognized
by Yad Vashem as Righteous Among the Nations) ignored this directive.[211] Abe Foxman, the
national director of the Anti-Defamation League (ADL), who had himself been baptized as a
child and had undergone a custody battle afterwards, called for an immediate freeze on Pius's
beatification process until the relevant Vatican Secret Archives and baptismal records were
opened.[212] Two Italian scholars, Matteo Luigi Napolitano and Andrea Tornielli, confirmed that
the memorandum was genuine although the reporting by the Corriere della Sera was misleading,
as the document had originated in the French Catholic Church archives rather than the Vatican
archives and strictly concerned itself with children without living blood relatives who were
supposed to be handed over to Jewish organizations.[213]

Later life, illness and death
Late years of Pope Pius XII
Main article: Late years of Pope Pius XII
The last years of the pontificate of Pius XII began in late 1954 with a long illness, during which
he considered abdication. Afterwards, changes in his work habit became noticeable. The Pope
avoided long ceremonies, canonizations and consistories and displayed hesitancy in personnel
matters. During the last years of the pontificate, Pius XII procrastinated personnel decisions
within his Vatican, and found it increasingly difficult to chastise subordinates and appointees
such as Riccardo Galeazzi-Lisi, who, after numerous indiscretions was excluded from Papal
service for the last years, but, keeping his title, was able to enter the papal apartments to make
photos of the dying Pope, which he sold to French magazines.[214] Pius underwent cellular
rejuvenation treatment, three courses, administered by Dr Paul Niehans, the most important in
1954 when Pacelli was gravely ill. Side-effects of the treatment included hallucinations, from
which the Pope suffered in his last years. "These years were also plagued by horrific nightmares.
Pacelli's blood-curdling screams could be heard throughout the papal apartments."[215]

Pius XII often elevated young priests as bishops, such as Julius Dpfner (35 years) and Karol
Wojtyla (later Pope John Paul II, 38 years), one of his last appointees in 1958. He took a firm
stand against pastoral experiments, such as "worker-priests", who worked full time in factories
and joined political parties and unions. He continued to defend the theological tradition of
Thomism as worthy of continued reform, and as superior to modern trends such as
phenomenology or existentialism.[216]

Illness and death

The Pope of Mary: A Madonna and Child, added by John XXIII, hangs over the tomb of Pius
XII.
Main article: Death of Pope Pius XII
Following his 1954 illness, Pope Pius still addressed lay people and groups about a wide range of
topics. Frequently he spoke to members of scientific congresses, setting out Christian teachings
in light of recent scientific findings.[citation needed] Sometimes he answered specific moral questions,
which were addressed to him. To professional associations he explained specific occupational
ethics in light of Church teachings. Pius granted the Honor of Being the "Catholic University of
The Philippines" to the University of Santo Tomas in Manila.[citation needed] Robert Leiber helped
him occasionally with his speeches and publications. Cardinal Augustine Bea SJ was his
personal confessor. Sister Pasqualina was for forty years his "housekeeper, muse and lifelong
companion".[217]
Pius XII died on 9 October 1958 of acute heart failure brought on by a sudden myocardial
infarction in Castel Gandolfo, the Papal summer residence. His doctor Gaspanini said afterwards:
"The Holy Father did not die because of any specific illness. He was completely exhausted. He
was overworked beyond limit. His heart was healthy, his lungs were good. He could have lived
another 20 years, had he spared himself."[218]

Botched embalming
Pius XII's physician, Dr. Riccardo Galeazzi-Lisi, reported that the Pontiff's body was embalmed
in the room where he died using a novel process invented by Dr. Oreste Nuzzi.[219]
Pope Pius XII did not want the vital organs removed from his body, demanding instead, that it be
kept in the same condition, "in which God created it".[220] According to Galeazzi-Lisi, this was

the reason why he and Professor Nuzzi, an embalmer from Naples, used a novel embalming
approach invented by Nuzzi.[220] In a controversial press conference, Galeazzi-Lisi described in
great detail the embalming the body of the late Pontiff. He claimed to have used the same system
of oils and resins, with which the body of Jesus Christ was preserved.[221]
Galeazzi-Lisi asserted that the new process would "preserve the body indefinitely in its natural
state"[219] However, whatever chance the new embalming process of efficaciously preserving the
body was obliterated by intense heat in Castel Gandolfo during the embalming process. As a
result, the body decomposed rapidly and the viewing of the faithful had to be terminated
abruptly. Galeazzi-Lisi reported that heat in the halls, where the body of the late Pope lay in
state, caused chemical reactions which required it to be treated twice after the original
preparation.[220] Swiss Guards stationed around Pius XII's body were reported to have become ill
during their vigil.[219]

Funeral
His funeral procession into Rome was the largest congregation of Romans as of that date.
Romans mourned "their" Pope, who was born in their city, especially as hero in time of war.[222]
Angelo Cardinal Roncalli (later Pope John XXIII) wrote in his diary on 11 October that probably
no Roman emperor had enjoyed such a triumph, which he viewed as a reflection of the spiritual
majesty and religious dignity of Pius XII.[223]

Cause for canonization
Main article: Canonization of Pope Pius XII
The Testament of Pope Pius XII was published immediately after his death. Pope Pius XII's
cause of canonization was opened on 18 November 1965 by Pope Paul VI. In May 2007, the
congregation recommended that Pius XII should be declared Venerable.[224] Pope Benedict XVI
did so on 19 December 2009, simultaneously making the same declaration in regard to Pope
John Paul II.[225]

Views, interpretations, and scholarship
Contemporary
During the war, Time magazine credited Pius XII and the Catholic Church for "fighting
totalitarianism more knowingly, devoutly, and authoritatively, and for a longer time, than any
other organized power".[226] During the war he was also praised editorially by the New York
Times for opposing Nazi anti-Semitism and aggression.[227] Some early works echoed these
favorable sentiments, including Polish historian Oskar Halecki's Pius XII: Eugenio Pacelli: Pope
of peace (1954) and Nazareno Padellaro's Portrait of Pius XII (1949).
Pinchas Lapide, a Jewish theologian and Israeli diplomat to Milan in the 1960s, estimated
controversially in Three Popes and the Jews that Pius "was instrumental in saving at least

700,000 but probably as many as 860,000 Jews from certain death at Nazi hands."[228] Some
historians have questioned this[229] often cited number, which Lapide reached by "deducting all
reasonable claims of rescue" by non-Catholics from the total number of European Jews surviving
the Holocaust.[230] A Roman Catholic scholar, Kevin Madigan, has interpreted this and other
praise from prominent Jewish leaders, including Golda Meir, as less than sincere, an attempt to
secure Vatican recognition of the State of Israel.[231]
After Pius XII's death on 9 October 1958 many Jewish organizations and newspapers around the
world paid tribute to his legacy. At the United Nations, Golda Meir, Israel's Foreign Minister,
said, "When fearful martyrdom came to our people in the decade of Nazi terror, the voice of the
Pope was raised for the victims. The life of our times was enriched by a voice speaking out on
the great moral truths above the tumult of daily conflict."[232] The Jewish Chronicle (London)
stated on 10 October that "Adherents of all creeds and parties will recall how Pius XII faced the
responsibilities of his exalted office with courage and devotion. Before, during, and after the
Second World War, he constantly preached the message of peace. Confronted by the monstrous
cruelties of Nazism, Fascism, and Communism, he repeatedly proclaimed the virtues of
humanity and compassion".[232] In the Canadian Jewish Chronicle (17 October), Rabbi J. Stern
stated that Pius XII "made it possible for thousands of Jewish victims of Nazism and Fascism to
be hidden away..."[232] In the 6 November edition of the Jewish Post in Winnipeg, William
Zukerman, the former American Hebrew columnist, wrote that no other leader "did more to help
the Jews in their hour of greatest tragedy, during the Nazi occupation of Europe, than the late
Pope".[232] Other prominent Jewish figures, such as Israeli Prime Minister Moshe Sharett and
Chief Rabbi Isaac Herzog expressed their public gratitude to Pius XII.[233]
Pius was also criticized during his lifetime. Leon Poliakov wrote in 1950 that Pius had been a
tacit supporter of Vichy France's anti-Semitic laws, calling him "less forthright" than Pope Pius
XI either out of "Germanophilia" or the hope that Hitler would defeat communist Russia.[234]
Bishop Carlos Duarte Costa, a long-time critic of Pius XII's policies during the war and an
opponent of clerical celibacy and the use of Latin as language of the liturgy, was
excommunicated by Pius XII on 2 July 1945.[235]
On 21 September 1945, the general secretary of the World Jewish Council, Dr. Leon
Kubowitzky, presented an amount of money to the pope, "in recognition of the work of the Holy
See in rescuing Jews from Fascist and Nazi persecutions."[236] After the war, in the autumn of
1945, Harry Greenstein from Baltimore, a close friend of Chief Rabbi Herzog of Jerusalem, told
Pius how grateful Jews were for all he had done for them. "My only regret", the pope replied, "is
not to have been able to save a greater number of Jews."[237]

The Deputy
Main article: The Deputy

A rare 1899 handwriting of Eugenio Pacelli with text in Latin
In 1963, Rolf Hochhuth's controversial drama Der Stellvertreter. Ein christliches Trauerspiel
(The Deputy, a Christian tragedy, released in English in 1964) portrayed Pope Pius XII as a
hypocrite who remained silent about the Holocaust. Books such as Dr. Joseph Lichten's A
Question of Judgment (1963), written in response to The Deputy, defended Pius XII's actions
during the war. Lichten labelled any criticism of the pope's actions during World War II as "a
stupefying paradox" and said, "no one who reads the record of Pius XII's actions on behalf of
Jews can subscribe to Hochhuth's accusation."[238] Critical scholarly works like Guenter Lewy's
controversial The Catholic Church and Nazi Germany (1964) also followed the publication of
The Deputy. Lewy's conclusion was that "the Pope and his advisers  influenced by the long
tradition of moderate anti-Semitism so widely accepted in Vatican circles  did not view the
plight of the Jews with a real sense of urgency and moral outrage. For this assertion no
documentation is possible, but it is a conclusion difficult to avoid".[239] In 2002 the play was
adapted into the film, Amen.. An article on La Civilit Cattolica in March 2009 indicated that the
accusations that Hochhuth's play made widely known originated not among Jews but in the
Communist bloc. It was on Moscow Radio, on 2 June 1945, that the first accusation directly
against Pius XII of refusing to speak out against the exterminations in Nazi concentration camps.
It was also the first medium to call him "Hitler's Pope".[240]
A former high-ranking KGB officer, Securitate General Ion Mihai Pacepa stated in 2007 that
Hochhuth's play and numerous publications attacking Pius XII as a Nazi sympathizer were
fabrications that were part of a KGB and Eastern bloc Marxist secret services disinformation
campaign, named Seat 12, to discredit the moral authority of the Church and Christianity in the
west.[241] Pacepa indicated that he was involved in contacting eastern bloc agents close the
Vatican in order to fabricate the story to be used for the attack against the wartime pope.[241]

Actes
Main article: Actes et documents du Saint Sige relatifs  la Seconde Guerre Mondiale

In the aftermath of the controversy surrounding The Deputy, in 1964, Pope Paul VI authorized
Jesuit scholars to access the Vatican State Department Archives, which are normally not opened
for seventy-five years. Actes et documents du Saint Sige relatifs  la Seconde Guerre Mondiale,
was published in 11 volumes between 1965 and 1981. The volumes were published by Angelo
Martini, Burkhart Schneider, Robert Graham and Pierre Blet. Blet also published a summary of
the 11 volumes.[242]

Hitler's Pope and The Myth of Hitler's Pope
Main articles: Hitler's Pope and The Myth of Hitler's Pope
In 1999, John Cornwell's Hitler's Pope criticized Pius for not doing enough, or speaking out
enough, against the Holocaust. Cornwell argued that Pius' entire career as the nuncio to
Germany, cardinal secretary of state, and pope was characterized by a desire to increase and
centralize the power of the Papacy, and that he subordinated opposition to the Nazis to that goal.
He further argued that Pius was anti-Semitic and that this stance prevented him from caring
about the European Jews.[243]
Cornwell's work was the first to have access to testimonies from Pius' beatification process as
well as to many documents from Pacelli's nunciature which had just been opened under the 75year rule by the Vatican State Secretary archives.[244] Cornwell's work received both praise and
criticism. While works such as Susan Zuccotti's Under His Very Windows: The Vatican and the
Holocaust in Italy (2000) and Michael Phayer's The Catholic Church and the Holocaust, 1930
1965 (2000) are critical of both Cornwell and Pius XII; Ronald J. Rychlak's Hitler, the War and
the Pope is critical as well but defends Pius XII in light of his access to most recent
documents.[245]
Cornwell's scholarship has been criticized. For example, Kenneth L. Woodward stated in his
review in Newsweek that "errors of fact and ignorance of context appear on almost every
page."[246] Five years after the publication of Hitler's Pope, Cornwell stated: "I would now argue,
in the light of the debates and evidence following Hitler's Pope, that Pius XII had so little scope
of action that it is impossible to judge the motives for his silence during the war, while Rome
was under the heel of Mussolini and later occupied by Germany".[247][248][249]
In his 2003 book, A Moral Reckoning, Daniel Goldhagen, asserts that Pius "chose again and
again not to mention the Jews publicly.... [In] public statements by Pius XII ... any mention of
the Jews is conspicuously absent." In a review of Goldhagen's book, Mark Riebling counters that
Pius used the word "Jew" in his first encyclical, Summi Pontificatus, published on 20 October
1939. "There Pius insisted that all human beings be treated charitably  for, as Paul had written
to the Colossians, in God's eyes "there is neither Gentile nor Jew." In saying this, the Pope
affirmed that Jews were full members of the human community  which is Goldhagen's own
criterion for establishing 'dissent from the anti-Semitic creed.'"[250]
Rabbi David Dalin's The Myth of Hitler's Pope argues that critics of Pius are liberal Catholics
and ex-Catholics who "exploit the tragedy of the Jewish people during the Holocaust to foster

their own political agenda of forcing changes on the Catholic Church today" and that Pius XII
was responsible for saving the lives of many thousands of Jews.[251]

International Catholic-Jewish Historical Commission
Main article: International Catholic-Jewish Historical Commission
In 1999, in an attempt to address some of this controversy, the International Catholic-Jewish
Historical Commission (Historical Commission), a group of three Catholic and three Jewish
scholars was appointed, respectively, by the Holy See's Commission for Religious Relations with
the Jews (Holy See's Commission) and the International Jewish Committee for Interreligious
Consultations (IJCIC), to whom a preliminary report was issued in October 2000.[252]
The Commission did not discover any documents, but had the agreed-upon task to review the
existing Vatican volumes, that make up the Actes et Documents du Saint Siege (ADSS)[253] The
Commission was internally divided over the question of access to additional documents from the
Holy See, access to the news media by individual commission members, and, questions to be
raised in the preliminary report. It was agreed to include all 47 individual questions by the six
members, and use them as Preliminary Report.[254] In addition to the 47 questions, the
commission issued no findings of its own. It stated that it was not their task to sit in judgment of
the Pope and his advisors but to contribute to a more nuanced understanding of the papacy
during the Holocaust.[255]
The 47 questions by the six scholars were grouped into three parts: (a) 27 specific questions on
existing documents,[256] mostly asking for background and additional information such as drafts
of the encyclical Mit brennender Sorge, which was largely written by Eugenio Pacelli.[257] (b)
Fourteen questions dealt with themes of individual volumes,[258] such as the question how Pius
viewed the role of the Church during the war.[259] (c) Six general questions,[260] such as the
absence of any anti-communist sentiments in the documents.[261] The disagreement between
members over additional documents locked up up under the Holy See's 70 year rule resulted in a
discontinuation of the Commission in 2001 on friendly terms.[254] Unsatisfied with the findings,
Dr. Michael Marrus, one of the three Jewish members of the Commission, said the commission
"ran up against a brick wall .... It would have been really helpful to have had support from the
Holy See on this issue."[262]
Peter Stanford, a Catholic journalist and writer, wrote, regarding Fatal Silence: the pope, the
resistance and the German occupation of Rome (written by Robert Katz; ISBN 0-297-84661-2;
Weidenfeld & Nicolson, 2003): "[The Vatican] still refuses to open all its files from the period 
which seems to me to be a conclusive admission of guilt  but Katz has winkled various papers
out of God's business address on earth to add to the stash of new information he has uncovered in
America in the archives of the Office of Strategic Services. From this we learn that, although
Pius's defenders still say that he paid a golden ransom in a vain effort to save Rome's Jews from
transportation to the death camps, the most he did was indicate a willingness to chip in if the
Jews could not raise the sum demanded. He also shows that no individual Jews were spared, as is
often claimed, after Pius personally intervened with the Nazis. Moreover, Katz reveals that those
who did escape the Nazi round-up and found sanctuary in church buildings in Rome did so in the

face of explicit opposition from the Vatican. The real heroes and heroines were the priests and
nuns who refused to bow to Pius's officials and hand over the desperate people whom they were
hiding. The main problem with writing about Pius's wartime is that in effect, he did nothing.
Facing the murders of six million people, he remained silent. As Jews were taken away from the
ghetto that sat right alongside St Peter's, he may have agonised, but he did not intervene. When
he did raise his voice with the German occupiers, it was either to ensure that the Vatican City
state would not be compromised  that is to say, he would be safe  or to emphasise his own
neutrality in a conflict which, for many, became a battle between good and evil. His unrealistic
hope was that the Catholic Church could emerge as the peacemaker across Europe. Instead, both
the American and British leaderships, as Katz shows, regarded the papacy as tainted by its
association with Nazism and irrelevant in the post-1945 reshaping of the Continent. Both had
urged Pius to speak up against the Holocaust and so drew their own conclusions about him. Far
from being a saint, then, he was at best a fool, perhaps an anti-Semite and probably a
coward."[263]

Recent developments
Phayer's Pius XII, The Holocaust, and the Cold War (2008) makes use of many documents that
have recently come to light due to Bill Clinton's 1997 executive order declassifying wartime and
postwar documents, many of which are currently at the US National Archives and Holocaust
Memorial Museum. These documents include diplomatic correspondence, American espionage,
and even decryptions of German communications. Relevant documents have also been released
by the Argentine government and the British Foreign Office and other information sources have
become available, including the diary of Bishop Hurley. These documents reveal new
information about Pius XII's actions regarding the Ustae regime, the genocides in Poland, the
finances of the wartime church, the deportation of the Roman Jews, and the postwar "ratlines"
for Nazis and fascists fleeing Europe.[264] According to Phayer, "the face of Pope Pius that we
see in these documents is not the same face we see in the eleven volumes the Vatican published
of World War II documents, a collection which, though valuable, is nonetheless critically flawed
because of its many omissions".[265]
A special conference of scholars on Pius XII on the 50th anniversary of his death was held in
Rome on 1517 September 2008, by Pave the Way Foundation, a nonsectarian organization
founded by Gary Krupp, a Jewish American, which promotes interfaith cooperation.[266] Pope
Benedict XVI held on 19 September 2008 a reception for the conference participants, where he
praised Pius XII as a pope who made every effort to save Jews during the war.[267] A second
conference was held from 68 November 2008 by the Pontifical Academy of Life.[268]
On 9 October 2008, the 50th anniversary of Pius XII's death, Benedict XVI celebrated pontifical
mass in his memory. Shortly prior to, and after the mass, dialectics continued between the Jewish
hierarchy and the Vatican as Rabbi Shear Yeshuv Cohen of Haifa addressed the Synod of
Bishops and expressed his disappointment towards Pius XII's "silence" during the war.[269]
On 16 June 2009, the Pave the Way Foundation announced that it would release of 2,300 pages
of documents in Avellino, Italy, dating from 1940 to 1945, which the organization claims show
that Pius XII "worked diligently to save Jews from Nazi tyranny"; the organization's founder,

Krupp has accused historians of harboring "private agendas" and having "let down" the
public.[270] The foundation's research led to the publication of the book Pope Pius XII and World
War II: the documented truth, authored by Krupp; the book reproduces 225 pages of the new
documents produced by the foundation's research.
On 17 September 2009, Pave the Way Foundation nominated Pius XII to be listed as Righteous
Among the Nations at the Yad Vashem Holocaust Memorial. The foundation's efforts produced
some 3,000 original documents and photos on the life of Pius XII and his work to save Jews
during World War II.[271]

See also
Catholicism portal
Vatican City portal




Cardinals created by Pius XII
List of people from Rome
List of popes

References
Footnotes
1. ^ Introduction, Gerard Noel, Pius XII,The Hound of Hitler-, and "brief phases of reassurance
about the role of the Pope were followed by waves of critical literature[-] and counteracted the process of
exoneration that had been underway for some years. The focus of recent analyses by John Cornwell via
Michael Phayer, Susan Zucotti, Daniel J. Goldhagen, and Giovanni Miccoli, as well as works by authors
Matteo Napolitano and Andrea Torniello, is once again about the Pope's silence about the murder of Jews
in Europe -the papal archives could provide information about Vatican diplomacy between 1933 and 1945;
however, the Vatican remains the only European state that withholds free access to its archives from
contemporary historians. The archives of these years are crucial if many questions about the Holocaust and
the Second World War are to be answered and if the many uncertainties concerning Nazi refugee assistance
by the Vatican are to be removed." (Gerald Steinacher:Nazis on the Run, p. 105)

2. ^ Encyclopedia of Catholicism by Frank K. Flinn, J. Gordon Melton; ISBN 0-8160-5455X, p. 267
3. ^ Pollard, 2005, p. 70.
4. ^ Marchione, 2004, p.1.; Gerard Noel, Pius XII:The Hound of Hitler, p.5
5. ^ O'Brian, p. 1
6. ^ Hitler's Pope, John Cornwell, p. 16
7. ^ Cornwell, p. 17
8. ^ Cornwell, pp. 1920
9. ^ Cornwell, p. 22
10. ^ Cornwell, p.23
11. ^ a b G. Noel, p. 10
12. ^ a b Gerard Noel, p.9

13. ^ a b Marchione, 2000, p. 193.
14. ^ a b Marchione, 2004, p. 9.
15. ^ G. Noel, p. 21; J. Cornwell, p. 49
16. ^ a b c Marchione, 2004, p. 10.
17. ^ Cornwell, Hitler's Pope, p. 42
18. ^ Cornwell, p.32
19. ^ Dalin, 2005, p. 47.
20. ^ Cornwell, p. 49
21. ^ Cornwell, p.50
22. ^ Levillain, 2002, p. 1211.
23. ^ Fatoni, 1992, pp 4585.
24. ^ Marchione, 2004, p. 11.
25. ^ Rychlak, 2000, p. 6.
26. ^ Cornwell, p. 73
27. ^ G. Noel, p.34
28. ^ Cornwell, p.75
29. ^ Volk, 1972; Cornwell,p.96
30. ^ Kaas, 1930.
31. ^ Stehle, 1975, pp. 13941.
32. ^ Morsey, p. 121.
33. ^ Cornwell, pp. 10304
34. ^ Kent, 2002, p. 24.
35. ^ Cornwell, p.115
36. ^ Fahlbusch, Erwin (ed.). Bromiley, Geoffrey W. (trans.) (2005). The Encyclopedia of
Christianity; ISBN 0-8028-2416-1
37. ^ Cornwell, p. 121
38. ^ Cornwell, p.128. Pacelli , quoted in Scholder's The Churches and the Third Reich', p.
157
39. ^ Dalin, 2005, pp. 5859.
40. ^ Marchione, 2002, p. 22.
41. ^ "Christian responses to the Holocaust: moral and ethical issues: Religion, theology,
and the Holocaust", Donald J. Dietrich, p. 92, Syracuse University Press, 2003; ISBN 08156-3029-8
42. ^ A dictionary of Jewish-Christian relations, Edward Kessler, Neil Wenborn, p. 86,
Cambridge University Press, 2005; ISBN 0-521-82692-6
43. ^ Joseph Bottum. April 2004. "The End of the Pius Wars", First Things; retrieved 1 July
2009.
44. ^ Phayer, 2000, p. 3.
45. ^ Walter Bussmann, 1969, "Pius XII an die deutschen Bischfe", Hochland 61, pp. 61
65
46. ^ a b c Gutman, Israel, Encyclopedia of the Holocaust, p. 1136.
47. ^ Passelecp, Suchecky pp. 11337
48. ^ a b Hill, Roland. 1997, 11 August. "The lost encyclical", The Tablet.
49. ^ On 28 January 1939, eleven days before the death of Pius XI, a disappointed Gundlach
informed LaFarge, the encyclical's author, "It cannot go on like this". The text had not
been forwarded to the Vatican. He had talked to the American assistant to Father General,

who promised to look into the matter in December 1938, but did not report back.
Passelecq, Suchecky. p. 121.
50. ^ Humani Generis Unitas
51. ^ "Nostra Aetate: Transforming the Catholic-Jewish Relationship: Jewish-Catholic
Relationship Transformed". Adl.org. Retrieved 6 May 2009.
52. ^ On 16 March four days after coronation, Gundlach informed LaFarge that the
documents had been given to Pius XI shortly before his death, but that the new Pope had
so far had no opportunity to learn about it. Passelecq, Suchecky. p. 126.
53. ^ Encyclical of Pope Pius on the unity of human society to our venerable brethren: The
Patriarchs, Primates, Archbishops, Bishops, and other ordinaries in peace and the
communion with the Apostolic see (AAS 1939).
54. ^ Eugenio Cardinal Pacelli. Discorsi E Panegirici 19311938; Tipografia Poliglotta
Vaticana, 1939
55. ^ Ludwig Volk, Die Kirche in den deutschsprachigen Lndern in: Handbuch der
Kirchengeschichte, Band VII, p. 539.
56. ^ Ludwig Volk, "Die Kirche in den deutschsprachigen Lndern", Handbuch der
Kirchengeschichte, Band VII, pp. 53944.
57. ^ They included: Latvia 1922, Bavaria 1925, Poland 1925, France I., 1926, France II.
1926, Lithuania 1927, Czechoslovakia 1928, Portugal I 1928, Italy I1929, Italy II 1929,
Portugal II 1929, Romania I 1927, Prussia 1929, Romania II 1932, Baden 1932, Germany
1933, Austria 1933. See P.Joanne M.Restrepo Restrepo SJ. Concordata Regnante
Sanctissimo Domino Pio PP.XI. Inita Pontificia Universita Gregoriana, Roma, 1934.
58. ^ Ludwig Volk, "Die Kirche in den deutschsprachigen Lndern" in: Handbuch der
Kirchengeschichte, Band VII, pp. 54647.
59. ^ Ludwig Volk Das Reichskonkordat vom 20. Juli 1933, p. 34f., pp. 4558.
60. ^ Klaus Scholder The Churches and the Third Reich volume 1: especially Part 1, chapter
10; part 2, chapter 2
61. ^ Volk, pp. 98101. Feldkamp, pp. 8893.
62. ^ Volk, pp. 101, 105.
63. ^ Volk, p. 254.
64. ^ Scholder, The Churches and the Third Reich, ii, p. 154
65. ^ Krieg, Robert A., Catholic Theologians in Nazi Germany, p. 112.
66. ^ a b Vidmar, pp. 3273l
67. ^ a b Pham, p. 45, quote: "When Pius XI was complimented on the publication, in 1937,
of his encyclical denouncing Nazism, Mit brennender Sorge, his response was to point to
his Secretary of State and say bluntly, 'The credit is his.'"
68. ^ a b c Bokenkotter, pp. 38992, quote "And when Hitler showed increasing belligerance
toward the Church, Pius met the challenge with a decisiveness that astonished the world.
His encyclical Mit brennender Sorge was the "first great official public document to dare
to confront and criticize Nazism" and "one of the greatest such condemnations ever
issued by the Vatican". Smuggled into Germany, it was read from all the Catholic pulpits
on Palm Sunday in March 1937. It exposed the fallacy and denounced the Nazi myth of
blood and soil; it decried its neopaganism, its war of annihilation against the Church, and
even described the Fhrer himself as a "mad prophet possessed of repulsive arrogance".
The Nazis were infuriated, and in retaliation closed and sealed all the presses that had

printed it and took numerous vindictive measures against the Church, including staging a
long series of immorality trials of the Catholic clergy."
69. ^ 74.A lEveque de Passau, in "Lettres de Pie XII aux Eveques Allemands 19391944,
Libreria Editrice Vaticana, 1967, p. 416
70. ^ Tardini,Pio XII roma 1960
71. ^ Michael F. Feldkamp. Pius XII und Deutschland; ISBN 3-525-34026-5.
72. ^ Dalin, 2005, pp. 6970
73. ^ Catholic Forum. Pope Pius XII profile.
74. ^ Pius XII, quoted in Joseph Brosch, Pius XII, Lehrer der Wahrheit, Kreuzring,
Trier,1968, p.45
75. ^ "Medius vestrum stetit quem vos nescetis. Everybody knew what the pope meant".
Domenico Cardinale Tardini, Pio XII, Tipografia Poliglotta Vaticana, 1960, p. 105
76. ^ Lehnert, Pascalina. Ich durfte Ihm Dienen, Erinnerungen an Papst Pius XII. Naumann,
Wrzburg, 1986, p. 57
77. ^ Lehnert, Pascalina. Ich durfte Ihm Dienen, Erinnerungen an Papst Pius XII. Naumann,
Wrzburg, 1986, p. 49
78. ^ Congregation of Extraordinary Ecclesiastical Affairs and Congregation of Ordinary
Affairs
79. ^ Pio XII, La Allocuzione nel consistorio Segreto del 12 Gennaio 1953 in Pio XII,
Discorsi e Radiomessagi di Sua Santita Vatican City, 1953, p. 455;
80. ^ Domenico Cardinale Tardini, Pio XII, Tipografia Poliglotta Vaticana, 1960, p. 157
81. ^ Guilio Nicolini, Il Cardinale Domenico Tardini, Padova, 1980; ISBN 88-7026-340-1;
p. 313
82. ^ In the Secretariat of State he had actively supported "foreigners", for example Francis
Spellman, the American monsignor, whom he consecrated himself as the first American
Bishop in the Vatican curia. Spellman had organized and accompanied Pacelli's
American journey and arranged a meeting with President Roosevelt. Only 30 days after
his coronation, on 12 April 1939, Pope Pius XII named Spellman as archbishop of New
York.
83. ^ Gannon, Robert I. The Cardinal Spellman Story, Doubleday Company, New York,
1962
84. ^ Oscar Halecki, James Murray, Jr. Pius XII, Eugenio Pacelli, Pope of Peace; p. 370
85. ^ (previously Leo X's elevation of 31 cardinals in 1517 had held this title). John Paul II
surpassed this number on 21 February 2001, elevating 44 cardinals. By that time, the
limit had been suspended and over 120 Cardinals existed.
86. ^ Oscar Halecki, James Murray, Jr. Pius XII, Eugenio Pacelli, Pope of Peace, p. 371.
87. ^ Levillain, 2002, p. 1136.
88. ^ Pio XII, La Allocuzione nel consistorio Segreto del 12 Gennaio 1953 in Pio XII,
Discorsi e Radiomessagi di Sua Santita, Vatican City, 1953, 455
89. ^ Tardini later thanked him for not appointing him. The Pope replied with a smile:
Monsignore mio, you thank me, for not letting me do what I wanted to do" I replied, yes
Holy Father, I thank you for everything you have done for me, but even more, what you
have not done for me. The Pope smiled. In Domenico Cardinale Tardini, Pio XII,
Tipografia Poliglotta Vaticana, 1960 157
90. ^ Tobin, Greg. (2003). Selecting the Pope: Uncovering the Mysteries of Papal Elections.
Barnes & Noble Publishing; ISBN 0-7607-4032-1. pp. xvxvi, 143.

91. ^ For example, Padellaro: "Church history will memorize with special letters the secret
conclave of 1946, and the cosmopolitan Pius XII, who called men of all races into the
Senate of the Church", Nazareno Padellaro, Pio XII Torino, 1956, p. 484
92. ^ AAS, 1947, Mediator Dei, p. 18
93. ^ AAS, 1947, Mediator Dei, p. 19.
94. ^ AAS 1947, Mediator Dei, p. 31.
95. ^ AAS, 1957, pp. 42526
96. ^ AAS, 1952, pp. 54246
97. ^ AAS, 1946, pp. 34954
98. ^ AAS, 1956, p. 354 ff
99. ^ AAS, 1956, p. 357.
100.
^ AAS, 1950, p. 657
101.
^ AAS 1954 313
102.
^ AAS 1957, p. 272
103.
^ Humani generis (1950) and Divino Afflante Spiritu (1943), p. 305.
104.
^ AAS, 1943, p. 297.
105.
^ AAS, 1943, p. 305.
106.
^ Pius XII, Enc. Humani Generis, p. 21
107.
^ Humani Generis, p. 21.
108.
^ AAS, 1950, p. 753.
109.
^ AAS 1953, p. 577
110.
^ AAS 1954, p. 625
111.
^ Pius XII, Enc. Mystici Corporis Christi, p. 110
112.
^ Pio XII, Discorsi Ai Medici compiles 700 pages of specific addresses.
113.
^ Pope Pius XII, The Moral Limits of Medical Research and Treatment.
114.
^ Two speeches on 29 October 1951, and 26 November 1951: Moral Questions
Affecting Married Life: Addresses given to the Italian Catholic Union of Midwives 29
October 1951, and 26 November 1951 to the National Congress of the Family Front and
the Association of Large Families, National Catholic Welfare Conference, Washington,
D.C.. Text of the speeches available from EWTN or CatholicCulture.org
115.
^ Discorsi E Radiomessaggi di sua Santita Pio XII, Vatican City, 1940, p. 407;
Discorsi E Radiomessaggi di sua Santita Pio XII, Vatican City, 1942, p. 52; Discorsi E
Radiomessaggi di sua Santita Pio XII, Vatican City, 1946,p.89Discorsi E Radiomessaggi
di sua Santita Pio XII, Vatican City, 1951, pp. 28, 221, 413, 574
116.
^ Leiber, p. 411.
117.
^ Pius XII, Enc. Humani Generis, 36
118.
^ "Finding God in human evolution". Retrieved 17 December 2011.
119.
^ "Univ of Dayton". Campus.udayton.edu. 30 July 2009. Retrieved 12 September
2010.
120.
^ This Saint's for You by Thomas J. Craughwell 2007; ISBN 1-59474-184-0; p.
172
121.
^ Communication, Father Robert Graham, SJ, 10 November 1992
122.
^ Orientalis Ecclesiae, AAS, 1944, p. 129.
123.
^ Orientales Omnes, AAS, 1946, pp. 3363.
124.
^ Sempiternus Rex, AAS, 1951, pp. 62544.
125.
^ Orientales Ecclesias. AAS, 1953, pp. 515.

126.
^ Apostolic Letters to the bishops in the East. AAS, 1956, pp. 26064.
127.
^ Fulgens Corona, AAS, 1953, pp. 57793.
128.
^ Papal letter to the People of Russia, AAS, 1952, pp. 50511.
129.
^ Joan Carroll Cruz (OCDS). Saintly Men of Modern Times. (2003); ISBN 1931709-77-7
130.
^ Dorothy Scallan. The Holy Man of Tours. (1990); ISBN 0-89555-390-2
131.
^ Gerard Noel, p.16
132.
^ Lehnert, Pascalina. Pius XII, Ich durfte ihm dienen, Wrzburg, 1982, p. 163
133.
^ a b Chadwick, A History of Christianity (1995), pp. 25455
134.
^ Phayer, 2008, p. 6.
135.
^ Phayer, 2008, p. 8.
136.
^ Phayer, 2008, p. 18.
137.
^ O'Brian, p. 8
138.
^ Corrado Pallenberg, p. 71
139.
^ Friedlnder, Saul. Nazi Germany and the Jews: The Years of Persecution, 1997,
New York: HarperCollins, p. 223.
140.
^ a b McInerney, 2001, p. 49.
141.
^ McInerney, 2001, p. 47.
142.
^ Finnish Defence Forces  The Winter War 19391940. Retrieved 9 May 2007.
143.
^ Gilbert, Sir Martin. The Second World War, p. 40.
144.
^ "Pius. No dove". Time Magazine. 6 November 1939. Retrieved 12 September
2010.
145.
^ Conway, Prof. John S., "The Meeting between Pope Pius XII and Ribbentrop",
CCHA Study Sessions, volume 35 (1968), pp. 10316 archives from papers stored at the
University of Manitoba
146.
^ Dalin, David G. The Myth of Hitler's Pope: How Pope Pius XII Rescued Jews
from the Nazis. Regnery Publishing: Washington, D.C. 2005; ISBN 0-89526-034-4; p. 76
147.
^ Conway, Prof. John S., The Vatican, the Nazis and Pursuit of Justice.
148.
^ Pius XII (13 June 1940). "Text of ''Saeculo Exeunte Octavo''". Vatican.va.
Retrieved 17 December 2011.
149.
^ Minutes of 7 August 1941. British Public Records Office FO 371/30175 57760
150.
^ Mark Aarons and John Loftus. Unholy Trinity pp. 7172
151.
^ Israel Gutman (ed.) Encyclopedia of the Holocaust vol 2, p. 739
152.
^ Rychlak, Ronald. Hitler, the War, and the Pope pp. 41415, note 61.
153.
^ Phayer, 2008, pp. 916.
154.
^ Phayer, 2008, pp. 1015, 147, 150.
155.
^ Phayer, 2008, p. 151.
156.
^ Phayer, 2008, p. 152.
157.
^ Mary Ball Martinez. 1993, "Pope Pius XII and the Second World War". Journal
of Historical Review. p. v., 13.
158.
^ "Religion: Rising Sun at the Vatican". Time Magazine. 6 April 1942. Retrieved
17 December 2011.
159.
^ "Envoy to Vatican named; Tokyo Reports Choice of Harada Under De Facto
Relations". The New York Times. 27 March 1942. Retrieved 17 December 2011.
160.
^ Report by the Polish Ambassador to the Holy See on the Situation in Germanoccupied Poland, Memorandum No. 79, 29 May 1942, Myron Taylor's papers, NARA.

161.
^ "Chen Fang-Chung, ''Lou Tseng-Tsiang: A Lover of His Church and of His
Country". Hsstudyc.org.hk. Retrieved 17 December 2011.
162.
^ Rittner and Roth, 2002, p. 4.
163.
^ Phayer, 2008, p. 53.
164.
^ Dalin, David G. "Pius XII and the Jews: A defense," Weekly Standard, Vol. 6,
No. 23, 16 Feb 2001 [1]
165.
^ Phayer, 2008, p. xii.
166.
^ Chadwick, 1988, pp. 25657.
167.
^ Alvarez and Graham, 1997, pp. 8688.
168.
^ Kurzman, 2007, p. 12.
169.
^ Kent, 2002, pp. 87100.
170.
^ "News Release, 28 August 1944". Trumanlibrary.org. 29 August 1944.
Retrieved 12 September 2010.
171.
^ Dalin, 2005, p. 70
172.
^ Lesser, Jeffrey. 1995. Welcoming the Undesirables: Brazil and the Jewish
Question. University of California Press. pp. 15168.
173.
^ Dalin, 2005, p. 73
174.
^ Ewers, Justin (1724 November 2008). Sainthood on Hold. U.S. News and
World Report.
175.
^ a b c d Gutman, 1990, p. 1137.
176.
^ a b Perl, William, The Holocaust Conspiracy, p. 200.
177.
^ Phayer, 2000, p. 5.
178.
^ Michael R. Marrus and Robert O. Paxton, 1981, Vichy France and the Jews,
New York: Basic Books, p. 202.
179.
^ Delpech, Les Eglises et la Perscution raciale, p. 267.
180.
^ Dalin, 2005, p. 74
181.
^ John F. Morley, 1980, Vatican Diplomacy and the Jews during the Holocaust,
19391943, New York: KTAV, p. 75.
182.
^ Phayer, 2000, p. 5
183.
^ Perl, William, The Holocaust Conspiracy, p. 206.
184.
^ Lapide, 1980, p. 139.
185.
^ Phayer, 2000, pp. 2728.
186.
^ Israel Pocket Library, Holocaust, p. 133; Gutman, Israel, Encyclopedia of the
Holocaust, p. 1137.
187.
^ Hilberg, Raul, The Destruction of the European Jews, p. 315.
188.
^ Hilberg, Raul, The Destruction of the European Jews, (2003) 3rd edition, pp.
120405.
189.
^ United States Holocaust Memorial Museum, Polish Victims. Retrieved 17
December 2008.
190.
^ Craughwell, Thomas J. The Gentile Holocaust, Catholic Culture. Retrieved 17
December 2008.
191.
^ Poland's Holocaust, Tadeusz Piotrowski, 1998 ISBN 0-7864-0371-3; p. 20
192.
^ Israel Pocket Library, Holocaust, p. 136.
193.
^ Dalin, 2005, p. 75

194.
^ (French) Actes et documents du Saint Sige relatifs  la Seconde Guerre
mondiale/d. par Pierre Blet, Angelo Martini, Burkhart Schneider and Robert Graham (7
April 1943).
195.
^ Israel Pocket Library, Holocaust, p. 134.
196.
^ Zolli, Eugenio. Before the Dawn. Reissued in 1997 as Why I Became a
Catholic.
197.
^ Israel Pocket Library, Holocaust, p. 133.
198.
^ "The role of the Roman Catholic Church in the Shoah (Nazi Holocaust)".
Religioustolerance.org. Retrieved 6 May 2009.
199.
^ Dalin, 2005, pp. 8285
200.
^ Phayer, 2008, p. xiii.
201.
^ Letter of Pius XII of 30 April 1943 to the Bischop of Berlin, Graf von Preysing,
published in "Documentation catholique" of 2 February 1964.
202.
^ Lang, Berel. "'Not Enough vs. Plenty': Which did Pius XII do?". Judaism. Fall
2001
203.
^ "860,000 Lives Saved  The Truth About Pius XII and the Jews". "Jewish
Virtual Library. Retrieved 18 February 2012.
204.
^ Gutman, Israel, Encyclopedia of the Holocaust, p. 1138.
205.
^ Dalin, 2005, pp. 8789
206.
^ Gilbert, Martin, The Holocaust, p. 701.
207.
^ Perl, William, The Holocaust Conspiracy, p. 176.
208.
^ Pave the Way Foundation Reveals Evidence of Pope Pius XII's Active
Opposition to Hitler, 24 June 2009
209.
^ Audience for the directors of mission activities in 1944 A.A.S., 1944, p. 208.
210.
^ Evangelii Praecones. p. 56.
211.
^ Jerusalem Report, (7 February 2005).
212.
^ Anti-Defamation League. ADL to Vatican: "Open Baptismal Records and Put
Pius Beatification on Hold". 13 January 2005.
213.
^ Cavalli, Dimitri. "Pius's Children". The American. 1 April 2006.
214.
^ Schneider, p. 80.
215.
^ Gerard Noel, Pius XII, The Hound of Hitler, p. 3
216.
^ See Humani Generis.
217.
^ Noel, p. 4
218.
^ Lehnert, Pascalina, p. 191
219.
^ a b c Quigley, Christine (1998). Modern Mummies. McFarland & Co.. ISBN 9780-7864-0492-6.
220.
^ a b c Associated Press, 11 October 1958
221.
^ "Pope's Body Embalmed with Special Process", Associated Press (AP), Rome,
11 October 1958
222.
^ Lehnert, Pascalina. Ich durfte ihm dienen, p. 197
223.
^ Hebblethwaite, Peter. John XXIII, Pope of the Council (revised edition), Harper
Collins: Glasgow. 1994
224.
^ "CNS STORY: Sainthood congregation recommends Pope Pius XII be named
venerable". Catholicnews.com. Retrieved 6 May 2009.
225.
^ Pitel, Laura (19 December 2009). "Pope John Paul II and Pope Pius XII move
closer to sainthood". London: The Times. Retrieved 25 September 2011.

226.
^ Time. 16 August 1943.
227.
^ "New York Times 25 December 1941 and 25 December 1942".
Catholicleague.org. Archived from the original on 31 July 2010. Retrieved 12 September
2010.
228.
^ Lapide, Pinchas. Three Popes and the Jews, 1967, quoted in Dalin, 2005, p. 11.
229.
^ e.g. Gilbert, Martin. The Holocaust, p. 623.
230.
^ Lapide, 1967, p. 269.
231.
^ "Lapide was in the 1960s an Israeli consul in Milan and was attempting, at the
time he made his inflated estimates, to secure Vatican recognition for the state of Israel.
Similar motives explain statements made in the immediate postwar period by Golda Meir
and Moshe Sharett, foreign ministers of the new state of Israel. Had these statements
been accurate within even an order of magnitude, Pius would perhaps deserve to be
honored by Yad Vashem and celebrated by Rabbi Dalin as a righteous gentile. They were
not. Whatever was thus gained diplomatically by these statementsin the short run,
precious littlewas purchased at the cost of considerable historical untruth." in
Christian Century, "Judging Pius XII" by Kevin Madigan. 14 March 2001, pp. 67; see
also The Pius war: responses to the critics of Pius XII by J. Bottum & D. Dalin, 2004, p.
190
232.
^ a b c d "The Good Samaritan. Jewish Praise for Pope Pius XII by Dimitri
Cavalli". Ewtn.com. Retrieved 12 September 2010.
233.
^ Rabbi David Dalin (26 February 2001publisher=Catholic League for Religious
and Civil Rights). "A Righteous Gentile: Pope Pius XII and the Jews". Retrieved 12
September 2010.
234.
^ Poliakov, Leon. November 1950. "The Vatican and the 'Jewish Question': The
Record of the Hitler Period  and After." Commentary 10: pp. 43949.
235.
^ Redmile, Robert David. 2006. The Apostolic Succession and the Catholic
Episcopate in the Christian Episcopal. Xulon Press. ISBN 1-60034-516-6; p. 247.
236.
^ McInerney, 2001, p. 155.
237.
^ McInerney, Ralph, The Defamation of Pius XII, 2001.
238.
^ Lichten, 1963, A Question of Judgement.
239.
^ Marchione, 2000, pp. 1617.
240.
^ Giovanni Sale, Il Novecento tra genocidi, paure e speranze, Jaca Book, Milan
2006, p. 214, quoted in La Civilt Cattolica, 2009, I 540
241.
^ a b "Moscow's Assault on the Vatican", National Review Online, 25 January
2007
242.
^ Blet, Pierre. Pius XII and the Second World War, Paulist Press, 1999
243.
^ Phayer, 2000, pp. xiixiii.
244.
^ Sanchez, 2002, p. 34.
245.
^ Rychlak, Ronald J. Hitler, the War and the Pope Genesis Press, Columbus, MS:
2000, pp 401 ff.
246.
^ Kenneth L. Woodward. The Case Against Pius Xii, Newsweek. 27 September
1999.
247.
^ The Economist, 9 December 2004.
248.
^ "For God's sake". The Economist. 9 December 2004.
249.
^ John Cornwell, The Pontiff in Winter (2004), p. 193

250.
^ "Mark Riebling, "Jesus, Jews, and the Shoah", ''National Review'', 27 January
2003" (PDF). Retrieved 17 December 2011.
251.
^ Dalin, 2005, p. 3.
252.
^ International Catholic-Jewish Historical Commission (2000). "The Vatican and
the Holocaust: A Preliminary Report". Jewish Virtual Library.
253.
^ Preliminary Report, p. 2
254.
^ a b Fogarty, Gerard P., The Vatican and the Holocaust, Presentation to the
Dominican House of Studies, Washington, D.C., 9 December 2000
255.
^ Preliminary Report, p. 5
256.
^ Pages 510
257.
^ Question One
258.
^ Pages 1013
259.
^ Question 28
260.
^ Pages 1314
261.
^ Question 42
262.
^ Melissa Radler. "Vatican Blocks Panel's Access to Holocaust Archives." The
Jerusalem Post. 24 July 2001.
263.
^ Stanford, Peter J. "Catholic guilt", 13 October 2003, [2] in review of Fatal
Silence: the pope, the resistance and the German occupation of Rome, written by Robert
Katz; ISBN 0-297-84661-2. Weidenfeld & Nicolson (2003)
264.
^ Phayer, 2008, pp. xixvi.
265.
^ Phayer, 2008, p. xi.
266.
^ "ADDRESS OF HIS HOLINESS BENEDICT XVI AT THE CONCLUSION
OF THE SYMPOSIUM ORGANIZED BY THE "PAVE THE WAY FOUNDATION"".
Retrieved 12 September 2010.
267.
^ "Address at the conclusion of the symposium organized by the "Pave the Way
Foundation"". Vatican.va. 19 September 2008. Retrieved 6 May 2009.
268.
^ "Vatican recalls life and teachings of Pius XII 50 years after his death".
Catholicnewsagency.com. Retrieved 6 May 2009.
269.
^ Donadio, Rachel (9 October 2008). "Synod Controversy". Italy: Nytimes.com.
Retrieved 17 December 2011.
270.
^ Jerusalem Post. 2009, 17 June "Foundation says documents will show Pius
helped Jews".
271.
^ Alexander Drummer (17 September 2009). "Pius XII Proposed as Righteous
Among the Nations". ZENIT. Retrieved 12 September 2010.

Bibliography






Acta Apostolicae Sedis (AAS). 19391958. Vatican City.
(Italian) Angelini, Fiorenzo. 1959. Pio XII, Discorsi Ai Medici. Rome.
Claudia, M. 1955. Guide to the Documents of Pope Pius XII. Westminster, Maryland.
Pio XII, Discorsi e Radio Messaggi di Sua Santita Pio XII. 19391958. Vatican City. 20
vol.
Roosevelt, Franklin D.; Myron C. Taylor, ed. Wartime Correspondence Between
President Roosevelt and Pope Pius XII. Prefaces by Pius XII and Harry Truman.
Kessinger Publishing (1947, reprinted, 2005). ISBN 1-4191-6654-9




























(German) Utz, A. F., and Grner, J. F. (eds.). Soziale Summe Pius XII 3 vol.
Zolli, Israel. 1997. Before the Dawn. Roman Catholic Books (Reprint edition). ISBN 0912141-46-8.
Olivier Rota. Les silences du pape Pie XII : gense et critique d'un procs biais, in
Revue d'Histoire Ecclsiastique, Louvain, vol. 99 (34), huly-dec. 2004, pp. 758766.
Thomas Bokenkotter. 2004. A Concise History of the Catholic Church. Doubleday. ISBN
0-385-50584-1
Owen Chadwick. 1995. A History of Christianity. Barnes & Noble. ISBN 0-7607-7332-7
Frank J. Coppa, The Policies and Politics of Pope Pius XII: Between Diplomacy and
Morality (New York etc., Peter Lang, 2011).
Cornwell, John. 1999. Hitler's Pope: The Secret History of Pius XII. Viking. ISBN 0670-87620-8.
Cushing, Richard. 1959. Pope Pius XII. Paulist Press.
Dalin, David G. 2005. The Myth of Hitler's Pope: How Pope Pius XII Rescued Jews from
the Nazis. Regnery. ISBN 0-89526-034-4.
Falconi, Carlo. 1970 (translated from the 1965 Italian edition). The Silence of Pius XII.
Boston: Little, Brown, and Co. ISBN 0-571-09147-4
Feldkamp, Michael F. Pius XII und Deutschland. Gttingen: Vandenhoeck & Ruprecht.
ISBN 3-525-34026-5.
Friedlnder, Saul. 1966. Pius XII and the Third Reich: A Documentation. New York:
Alfred A Knopf. ISBN 0-374-92930-0
Gallo, Patrick J., ed. 2006. Pius XII, The Holocaust and the Revisionists. London:
McFarland & Company, Inc., Publishers. ISBN 0-7864-2374-9
Goldhagen, Daniel. 2002. A Moral Reckoning  The role of the Catholic Church in the
Holocaust and Its Unfulfilled Duty of Repair. Little, Brown ISBN 0-316-72446-7
Gutman, Israel (ed.). 1990. Encyclopedia of the Holocaust, vol. 3. New York: Macmillan
Publishing Company. ISBN 0-02-864529-4
Halecki, Oskar. 1954. Pius XII: Eugenio Pacelli: Pope of peace. Farrar, Straus and
Young. OCLC 775305
Hatch, Alden, and Walshe, Seamus. 1958. Crown of Glory, The Life of Pope Pius XII.
New York: Hawthorne Books.
ICJHC. 2000. The Vatican and the Holocaust: A Preliminary Report.
Khlwein, Klaus. 2008. Warum der Papst schwieg. Pius XII und der Holocaust.
Dsseldorf: Patoms-Verlag. ISBN 978-3-491-72527-0
Kurzman, Dan. 2007. A Special Mission: Hitler's Secret Plot to Seize the Vatican and
Kidnap Pope Pius XII. Da Capo Press.
Leiber, Robert. Pius XII Stimmen der Zeit, Freiburg i Br. Vol 163, 19581959, pp. 81 ff
Lehnert, Pascalina. 1983. Ich durfte Ihm dienen, Erinneringen an Papst Pius XII,
Wrzburg, Verlag Johann Wolhelm Naumann
Kent, Peter. 2002. The Lonely Cold War of Pope Pius XII: The Roman Catholic Church
and the Division of Europe, 19431950. Ithaca: McGill-Queen's University Press. ISBN
0-7735-2326-X
Lapide, Pinchas. 1967. Three Popes and the Jews. London and Southampton: Souvenir
Press.
Levillain, Philippe (ed.). 2002. The Papacy: An Encyclopedia. Routledge (UK). ISBN 0415-92228-3.



























Lewy, Guenter. 1964. The Catholic Church and Nazi Germany. New York: McGrawHill. ISBN 0-306-80931-1.
Marchione, Sr. Margherita. 2000. Pope Pius XII: Architect for Peace. Paulist Press. ISBN
0-8091-3912-X.
Marchione, Sr. Margherita. 2002. Consensus and Controversy: Defending Pope Pius XII.
Paulist Press. ISBN 0-8091-4083-7.
Marchione, Sr. Margherita. 2002. Shepherd of Souls: A Pictorial Life of Pope Pius XII.
Paulist Press. ISBN 0-8091-4181-7.
Marchione, Sr. Margherita. 2004. Man of Peace: An Abridged Life of Pope Pius XII.
Paulist Press. ISBN 0-8091-4245-7.
Martin, Malachi B. 1972. Three Popes and the Cardinal: The Church of Pius, John and
Paul in its Encounter with Human History. Farrar, Straus and Giroux. ISBN 0-37427675-7.
McDermott, Thomas. 1946. Keeper of the Keys -A Life of Pope Pius XII. Milwaukee: The
Bruce Publishing Company.
McInerney, Ralph. 2001. The Defamation of Pius XII. St Augustine's Press. ISBN 1890318-66-3.
Morsey, Rudolf. 1986. "Eugenio Pacelli als Nuntius in Deutschland" in Herbert
Schambeck, Pius XII. Berlin: Duncker & Humblot.
Murphy, Paul I. and Arlington, R. Rene. 1983. La Popessa: The Controversial Biography
of Sister Pasqualina, the Most Powerful Woman in Vatican History. New York: Warner
Books Inc. ISBN 0-446-51258-3.
Noel, Gerard. 2008. Pius XII: The Hound of Hitler. ISBN 1-84706-355-1.
(Italian) Padellaro, Nazareno. 1949. Portrait of Pius XII. Dutton; 1st American ed edition
(1957). OCLC 981254
O'Brien, Felicity. 2000, Pius XII, London and Bristol, Burleigh Press,
O'Shea, Paul. 2011, A Cross Too Heavy, Palgrave Macmillan ISBN 0-230-11080-0.
Passelecq, Georges and Bernard Suchecky, 1997. The hidden encyclical of Pius XI.
Harcourt Brace. ISBN 9780151002443
Paul, Leon. 1957. The Vatican Picture Book  A Picture Pilgrimage. New York:
Greystone Press.
Pham, John Peter. 2006. Heirs of the Fisherman: Behind the Scenes of Papal Death and
Succession. Oxford University Press. ISBN 0-19-517834-3
Phayer, Michael. 2000. The Catholic Church and the Holocaust, 19301965.
Indianapolis: Indiana University Press. ISBN 0-253-33725-9.
Phayer, Michael. 2008. Pius XII, The Holocaust, and the Cold War. Indianapolis: Indiana
University Press. ISBN 978-0-253-34930-9.
Pollard, John F. 2005. Money and the Rise of the Modern Papacy: Financing the Vatican,
18501950. Cambridge University Press.
Pfister, Pierre. 1955. PIUS XII  The Life and Work of a Great Pope. New York: Thomas
Y. Crowell Company.
Ritner, Carol and Roth, John K. (eds.). 2002. Pope Pius XII and the Holocaust. New
York: Leicester University Press. ISBN 0-7185-0275-2.
Rychlak, Ronald J. 2000. Hitler, the War, and the Pope. Our Sunday Visitor. ISBN 087973-217-2.








Snchez, Jos M. 2002. Pius XII and the Holocaust: Understanding the Controversy.
Washington, D.C.: Catholic University of America Press. ISBN 0-8132-1081-X.
Scholder, Klaus. 1987. The Churches and the Third Reich. London.
Tardini, Domenico. 1960. Pio XII. Roma: Poliglotta Vaticana.
John Vidmar. 2005. The Catholic Church Through the Ages. Paulist Press. ISBN 0-80914234-1.
Volk, Ludwig. 1972. Das Reichskonkordat vom 20. Juli 1933. Mainz: MatthiasGrnewald-Verlag. ISBN 3-7867-0383-3.
Zuccotti, Susan. 2000. Under His Very Windows: The Vatican and the Holocaust in Italy.
New Haven and London: Yale University Press. ISBN 0-300-08487-0.

External links
Wikiquote has a collection of quotations related to: Pope Pius XII



Media related to Pope Pius XII at Wikimedia Commons
Official Vatican page on Pius XII
Catholic Church titles

Preceded by
Rafael Merry del Val

Archpriest of St. Peter's Basilica
19301939

Succeeded by
Federico Tedeschini

Cardinal Secretary of State
19301939

Succeeded by
Luigi Maglione

Camerlengo
19351939

Succeeded by
Lorenzo Lauri

Preceded by
Pius XI

Grand Master of the Equestrian
Order of the Holy Sepulchre of
Jerusalem
2 March 1939  16 July 1940

Succeeded by
Nicola Cardinal Canali

Preceded by
Pius XI

Pope
2 March 1939  9 October 1958

Succeeded by
John XXIII

Preceded by
Pietro Gasparri

[show]




v
t
e

Pope Pius XII (19391958)

[show]




v
t
e

Popes of the Catholic Church
View page ratings
Rate this page
What's this?
Trustworthy
Objective
Complete
Well-written
I am highly knowledgeable about this topic (optional)
Categories:























1876 births
1958 deaths
19th-century Italian people
20th-century Italian people
Alumni of the Almo Collegio Capranica
Alumni of the Pontifical Gregorian University
Apostolic Nuncios to Germany
Burials at St. Peter's Basilica
Camerlengos of the Holy Roman Church
Cardinal Secretaries of State
Cardiovascular disease deaths in Italy
Cold War leaders
Deaths from heart failure
Grand Masters of the Equestrian Order of the Holy Sepulchre
Italian anti-communists
Italian popes
Knights of the Order of the Most Holy Annunciation
People from Rome
Pope Pius XII
Sovereigns of Vatican City
Venerated Catholics
World War II political leaders




Create account
Log in




Article
Talk





Read
Edit
View history









Main page
Contents
Featured content
Current events
Random article
Donate to Wikipedia
Wikipedia Shop

Interaction






Help
About Wikipedia
Community portal
Recent changes
Contact Wikipedia

Toolbox
Print/export
Languages




















Alemannisch
  
Aragons
Azrbaycanca


Boarisch
Brezhoneg
Catal
esky
Cymraeg
Dansk
Deutsch
Eesti

Espaol
Esperanto
Euskara
  















































Franais
Gaeilge
Gidhlig
Galego

Hornjoserbsce
Hrvatski
Ido
Ilokano
 
Bahasa Indonesia
Italiano

Basa Jawa
Kapampangan

Kiswahili
Latina
Latvieu
Lietuvi
Lumbaart
Magyar

Malti

Nederlands

norsk (bokml)
norsk (nynorsk)
Occitan
Piemontis
Plattdtsch
Polski
Portugus
Romn
Runa Simi

Shqip
Simple English
Slovenina
Slovenina
 / srpski
Srpskohrvatski / 
Suomi
Svenska














Tagalog


Trke

Vneto
Ting Vit
Winaray
Yorb




This page was last modified on 21 July 2012 at 09:49.
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply. See Terms of use for details.
Wikipedia is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit
organization.
Contact us






Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Mobile view




