Christmas
Christmas
http://www.yrm.org/b-day-sun.htm
and
http://www.seedofabraham.net/christmas.html
December
25- Birthday of the Sun
The Christmas super-holiday
is the standard for popular observances today. Families will gather on December
25, gorge themselves on ham and turkey, stare at a decorated tree while a swooning
Bing provides the ambience, and exchange billions of dollars in gifts, many of
them unwanted. A crescendo of months of retailer hype
will climax on one grand day of thhe Savior’s supposed birth.
But hold on. Amid the bells and
booze, frolicking elves and fruitcake, many sense that something isn’t right.
If Christmas is a celebration of the birth of the Savior at
Bethlehem ,
who came to bring peace on earth and good will toward men, why isn’t there more
peace and good will in our world? With so many millions observing this holiday,
should not our world be changing for the better? Is this not what a “religious”
observance is supposed to accomplish?
Maybe the problem is simply
that people fail to catch and hold the “spirit of Christmas.” Or could the holiday
itself be flawed? Why do so many people sense
an emptiness
at this time of year, a major letdown amid the torn gift-wrapping and crushed
ribbon bows?
Where’s the Scriptural
Christmas?
Christmas,
after all, is supposed to be rooted in the Bible. It is assumed to honor the
birth of the Savior of men in a manger at
Bethlehem .
(Its name is a contraction for “Christ’s
Mass. ”)
But the overblown rites of Santa Claus, tinsel, Rudolph, gift exchanging, and
football mostly obscure any religious overtones of the observance.
A revealing survey would be to poll frantic Christmas
shoppers to find out how many know the origins of Christmas. Do
you
know what Christmas is all about?
Are you mildly amused each year with newspaper and magazine articles detailing
the strange, irreverent customs of Christmas? On the other hand, maybe you have
found these facts somewhat troubling. Isn’t it time you honestly investigated
the matter? If Christmas is that significant – the biggest holiday of the year
demanding a great deal of your time and money — shouldn’t you at least know
what it is actually all about? This is especially serious considering the
religious flavor of Christmas. The Creator in heaven may just have a definite
opinion about the observance of this holiday that you need to discover.
Do you observe Christmas because you believe it is in the
Bible? Try as you might, you will not find a hint of Christmas anywhere in the
Scriptures. There is neither a call to observe it nor an example where anyone
in the Bible did so. Shocking? Millions are oblivious to this simple fact.
As one authority puts it, “There is no historical evidence that our
[Savior’s] birthday was celebrated during the apostolic or early post-apostolic
times,”
Christmas , p. 47,
The New Schaff-Herzog
Encyclopedia of Religious Knowledge .
Another writer makes this
astounding statement: “The day was not one of the early feasts of the Christian
church. In fact the observance of birthdays was condemned as a heathen custom repugnant
to Christians,”
The American Book of Days,
by George W. Douglas.
What a revealing statement!
The single most important religious holiday observed today
in Christianity would have been FORBIDDEN in early New Testament times. Many
historians and Biblical scholars corroborate this fact. Now read a candid
admission from
The
New Catholic Encyclopedia,
“Inexplicable though it seems, the date of the [Messiah’s] birth is not known.
The Gospels indicate neither the day nor the month,” vol. 3, p. 656. And the
Cyclopedia of Biblical, Theological and Ecclesiastical Literature
says, “The fathers of the first three centuries do not speak of any special
observance of the nativity. No corresponding festival was presented by the Old
Testament ... the day and month of the birth of [the Messiah] are nowhere
stated in the Gospel history, and cannot be certainly determined,”
Christmas ,
p. 276.
Celebrating birthdays was never sanctioned in the
Scriptures, nor is a birthday party ever mentioned that didn’t end in someone’s
death. If Christmas is as popular and pervasive a religious holiday as retail
sales indicate,
why isn’t it found anywhere
in the Bible? Why aren’t we told the
month  —let alone the
day —
of   the
Savior’s birth?
“But what about the manger scene with shepherds and wise
men?” you ask. Yes, the manger is described in the Bible, but it was never
provided as a focus for the continued observance of the birthday of the Savior.
Shepherds came to the manger, but the wise men visited a house up to two years
later. Here’s the account of these wise men, right from Matthew 2:11, “And when
they were come into the
house,
they saw the
young child
with Mary
[Miriam] his mother, and fell down and worshiped Him.”
And then there is the timing. Usually during Christmas
plays someone will read the account in Luke 2:8: “And there were in the same
country shepherds abiding in the field, keeping watch over their flock by
night.” Is this describing a cold December scene? According to Jeremiah 36:22,
December is wintry in the
Holy Land , cold and rainy, and
on occasion snow covers the ground (see
Daily Life in the Time of Jesus
by Henri Daniel-Rops).
Luke, however, says that sheep were still in the open
fields. This had to be
before
the
cold winter rains and snows began to fall. The livestock had not yet been moved
to shelters. Notice: “It was a custom among Jews to send out their sheep to the
deserts about the Passover [early spring], and bring them home at the
commencement of the first rain”
( Clarke’s Commentary
by Adam
Clarke, vol. 3, p. 370). Clarke says the first rain commences in October or
November. He adds, “As these shepherds had not yet brought home their flocks,
it is a presumptive argument that October had not yet commenced, and that,
conse-quently, our Savior was not born on the 25th of December, when no flocks
were out in the fields ...the [Bible says] flocks were still in the fields by
night. On this very ground the nativity in December should be given up.”
Another indication that the Savior was born in the fall
rather than in winter is the fact that Caesar Augustus had declared a census or
tax be made of the empire, and each citizen had to report to his hometown to
register, Luke 2:1-5. Ordering the people of the empire to travel great
distances in the
dead of winter
would have surely incited a revolt, at least among the Jews in the
Holy
Land . No right-minded king would have requested such a thing. He
more likely would have called a census in early
fall
after the crops were harvested and the people had money and time to travel
before bad winter weather set in.
Various prophetic
Scriptures indicate that Yahshua the Messiah was born at the time of the fall
Feast of Tabernacles. That may have been one reason that the inn was full when
Joseph came to
Bethlehem , as the
city had swelled with Feast observers.
Sun (Not Son) Worship
If Christmas is not in the Bible, where did it come from?
The answer is found in every encyclopedia and in many newspapers or magazines
appearing around December 25. What they say about the roots of Christmas should
shock every honest Bible believer into taking a serious look at the annual
observance and what it
really
celebrates.
Historians do not hide the fact that Christmas was an
invention of the Roman church, designed to compete with the heathen Roman feast
of Saturnalia in honor of the sun deity Mithras. Mithras bore remarkable
similarity to the Biblical Messiah. The Mithraic feast, like Christmas, was
celebrated to commemorate his birth. Notice the remarkable parallels, as
detailed by Joscelyn Godwin, professor at
Colgate
University . She writes that Mithras
was “the creator and orderer of the universe, hence a manifestation of the
creative Logos or Word. Seeing mankind afflicted by Ahriman, the cosmic power
of darkness, he incarnated on earth. His birth on 25 December was witnessed by
shepherds. After many deeds he held a last supper with his disciples and
returned to heaven. At the end of the world he will come again to judge
resurrected mankind and after the last battle, victorious over evil, he will
lead the chosen ones through a river of fire to a blessed immortality,”
Mystery
Religions in the Ancient
World ,
p. 99. Godwin remarks, “No
wonder the early Christians were disturbed by a deity who bore so close a
resemblance to their own, and no wonder they considered him a mockery of [the
Messiah] invented by Satan.”
These two popular movements were vying for dominance in the
Roman Empire
– one being   pagan
sun worship, the other Christian. Historian and archaeologist Ernest Renan once
wrote, “If Christianity had been halted in its growth by some mortal illness,
the world would have been Mithraist”
( Marc Aurele ,
p. 597).
Caught in the middle were the Roman emperors, who wanted to unify and solidify
their diverse empire. They didn’t need divisive religious factions. For
political reasons, the Roman rulership saw great advantage in
synchronizing and harmonizing these
religious beliefs into one.
So today, much of what is
accepted as Bible-based tradition is the direct result of compromising and
mixing with heathen religion. Roman Emperor Constantine, a former pagan
himself, gave the most significant push to the Christian-pagan blending of
teachings like Christmas. Among other things, he would decree that worship for
Christianity switch from the seventh day Sabbath to the first day of the week –
Sun-day – the day superstitious heathens worshiped the sun.
“This tendency on the part of Christians to meet Paganism
half-way was very early developed,” says Alexander Hislop in
The Two
Babylons ,
p. 93. Interestingly, Hislop notes that the pagans gave up
precious little of their own beliefs and practices. “And we find Tertullian,
even in his day, about the year 230, bitterly lamenting the inconsistency of
the disciples of [Messiah] in this respect, and contrasting it with the strict
fidelity of the Pagans to their own superstition.”
Hislop quotes Tertullian, the most ancient of the Latin
church fathers whose works are extant, as he decries the early church
observances: “By us who are strangers to Sabbaths and new moons, and festivals,
once acceptable to [Yahweh], the Saturnalia, the feasts of January, the
Brumalia, and Matronalia are now frequented; gifts are carried to and fro, new
year’s day presents are made with din, and sports and banquets are celebrated
with uproar.”
Why a Death Celebration
Honoring a Birth?
A mass is a celebration of the Eucharist or the emblems of
the death of the Savior. Yet, “Christ-mass” is an observance supposedly in honor
of His birth. Why? The answer is found with the secular ancients. Mithras was
known as the Sun Deity.
His birthday,
Natalis solis
invicti,
means “birthday of the invincible sun.”
It came on December
25, at the time of the winter solstice
when the sun began its journey northward again. Pagan peoples were overly
concerned with life and fertility. They saw life fading in the darkness of
winter and so held festivals in honor of and to beckon back the sun to give
life and light to the earth once more.
The Dictionary of the Middle Ages
explains how a funeral mass came to be celebrated as the supposed birthday of
the Savior:
“In patristic thought [the Messiah] had traditionally been
associated with light or the sun, and the cult of the
Sol invictus,
sanctioned as it was by the Roman emperors since the late third century,
presented a distinct threat to Christianity. Hence, to compete with this
celebration the Roman church instituted a feast for the nativity of [the
Messiah], who was called the
Sol
iustitiae ....
Usually when Christians celebrated the
natalis
of a saint or martyr, it
was his death or heavenly nativity, but in this case
natalis
was
assigned to be [the Messiah’s] earthly birth, in direct competition with the
pagan
natalis,”
pp. 317-318. (That is, it was to compete with the
birthday of Mithras.) So confused were some about what or whom they were
worshiping that Pope Leo I (440-461) chastised Christians who on Christmas
celebrated the birth of the sun deity!
The sun cult was particularly strong at
Rome
about the time Christmas enters the historical picture, according to the
New
Catholic Encyclopedia .
“The Feast is first mentioned at the head of the
Depositio Martyrum in the Roman Chronograph of 354. Since the Depositio was
composed in 336, Christmas in
Rome
can be dated that far at least. It is not found, however, in the lists of
Feasts given by Tertullian and Origen,” vol. 3, p. 656.
Where did Mithraism come from, this Roman religion that
venerated the sun deity and influenced Christianity so greatly? Kenneth Scott
Latourette in
A History of
Christianity ,
traces Mithraism to the
mystery religions of
Egypt ,
Syria , and
Persia .
“Almost all the mystery cults eventually made their way to
Rome ,”
he notes. “They were secret in many of their ceremonies and their members were
under oath not to reveal their esoteric rites. Numbers of them centered about a
savior-god who had died and had risen again. As the cults spread within the
Empire they copied from one another in the easy-going syncretism which
characterized much of the religious life of that realm and age,” pp. 24-25.
Nimrod: The Grandfather
of Paganism
Clearly, Christmas as the observance of the Savior’s birth
did not come into existence immediately. It was not observed for at least three
centuries after His birth.
But Christmas as a pagan holiday traces back thousands of
years to a man named Nimrod, founder of ancient pagan
Babylon .
Forefather to Mithras, Nimrod began a counterfeit religion in the Book of
Genesis that was to compete with the True Faith of the Bible in every
conceivable way down through the centuries. The Bible refers to it as the
religion of Mystery Babylon — the mother of false religion that will
be destroyed when the Savior Yahshua comes to set up His throne on earth,
Revelation 18.
Babylon ’s false
worship is found today in some aspect in nearly all religions, including   churchianity .
The Madonna and child theme, which is universal or evident
in hundreds of religions down through the centuries, had its origin in
Babylon .
Nimrod’s wife was Semiramis, the first deified queen of
Babylon .
She is also known variously as Diana, Aphrodite, Astarte, Rhea, and Venus. Her
son was Tammuz, also called Bacchus, Adonis, and Osiris. He was the supposed
reincarnated Nimrod. He came back to life when the dead yule log was cast into
the fire and the evergreen tree appeared as the slain king-deity reborn at the
winter solstice
( The Two Babylons ,
p. 98). The
similarities
with Biblical elements found among pagan religions is
not simply
coincidence. It is the design of the Adversary to sidetrack seekers of truth
into believing they are worshiping
Scripturally .
Saturnalia – Forerunner
of Modern Christmas
Tammuz, the Babylonian sun deity, was the first counterfeit
savior. Yahweh in Ezekiel 8:14-18 condemns ancient
Israel
for adopting worship of Tammuz, which included sun worship and the asherah
(phallic symbol).
“Then he brought me to the door of the gate of Yahweh’s house
which was toward the north; and behold, there sat women weeping for Tammuz.
Then said he unto me,
Hast
thou seen this, O son of
man?
turn
thee yet again, and thou shalt see greater
abominations than these. And he brought me into the inner court of Yahweh’s
house, and, behold, at the door of the temple of Yahweh, between the porch and
the altar, were about five and twenty men, with their backs toward the temple
of Yahweh, and their faces toward the east; and they worshiped the sun toward
the east. Then he said unto me,
Hast
thou seen this, O
son of man? Is it a light thing to the house of
Judah
that they commit the abominations which they commit here?
for
they have filled the land with violence, and have returned to provoke me to
anger: and, lo, they put the branch [asherah] to their nose. Therefore will I
also deal in fury: mine eye shall not spare, neither will I have pity: and
though they cry in mine ears with a loud voice, yet will I not hear them.”
Elements of this worship are still found in today’s Christmas
rites. The Romans worshiped Tammuz as the sun deity Mithras in a special
observance called the Saturnalia. The Saturnalia was named for Saturn,
otherwise known as Cronus. Cronus is an alias for Tammuz. His wife and mother
was Rhea (Semiramis). The Saturnalia, therefore, was just another observance
for Tammuz, the Babylonian, counterfeit redeemer. The Romans kept the
Saturnalia in December, at the time of the winter solstice, in honor of the
returning sun. The festival lasted seven days. “All classes exchanged gifts,
the commonest being waxed tapers and clay dolls,” says the
Encyclopaedia
Britannica,
Eleventh Edition.
Legend has it that the Saturnalia was instituted by
Romulus
under the name Brumalia (from
bruma,
rneaning winter solstice),
Britannica ,
p . 232. “The pagan Saturnalia and Brumalia were too
deeply entrenched in popular custom to be set aside by Christian influence,”
notes the
New Schaff-Herzog Encyclopedia of Religious Knowledge ,
p. 48.
And so the church established the birthday of the Savior to
coincide with the heathen feast day. “...the Latin Church, supreme in power,
and infallible in judgement, placed it on the 25th of December, the very day on
which the ancient Romans celebrated the feast of their goddess Bruma. Pope
Julius I was the person who made this alteration”
( Clarke’s Commentary ).
This fact is supported by the
New International
Dictionary of the Christian Church ,
p. 223:
“December 25 was the date of the Roman pagan festival inaugurated in 274 as the
birthday of the unconquered sun which at the winter solstice begins again to
show an increase in light. Sometime before 336 the Church in
Rome ,
unable to stamp out this pagan festival, spiritualized it as the Feast of the
Nativity of the Sun of Righteousness.” Hislop observes, “That Christmas was
originally a Pagan festival, is beyond all doubt. The time of the year, and the
ceremonies with which it is still celebrated, prove its origin,”
The Two
Babylons ,
p. 93.
This blending of observances only served to confuse
worshipers. By the middle of the fifth century, Pope Leo the Great rebuked his
over-cautious flock for paying reverence to the Sun on the
steps of St.
Peter’s before turning their backs on it to worship inside the westward-facing
basilica. Even some bishops, like
Troy ,
continued to pray to the sun. He eventually went back to sun worship entirely
(from
The Early Church,
by Henry Chadwick).
Protestants
Object to Christmas Observance
As the
Roman Empire
grew and as
merchants traveled, the customs of Christmas spread also. Cultures in northern
Europe
contributed some of their own traditions, or twists on some unbiblical themes,
nearly all of which had a basis in Babylonian paganism. The decorated tree, St.
Nick, yule log, wreaths, cookies, berries, mistletoe, bonfires, roast goose,
roast pig, wassailing, caroling, and other familiar fixtures were added or
embellished for the Christmas-Saturnalia in various countries.
When the Protestant movement attempted to rid itself of the
excesses and sins of Roman Catholicism, there also came an opposition to
Christmas that almost obliterated it entirely in
England .
“In
England ,
for example, the Puritans could not tolerate this celebrating for which there
was no biblical sanction. Consequently, the Roundhead Parliament of 1643
outlawed the feasts of Christmas, Easter, Whit- suntide, along with the saints’ daays,”
Celebrations,
p.
312.
For a period of 12 years the staunch Puritans kept the
shackles on Christmas, making it an ordinary day of business and even a day of
fasting. Yet “with the Restoration in 1660 the citizens reclaimed Christmas,
but it was a different festival from what it had been. The religious aspects
were often neglected, with the result that the secularization of the holiday
was well under way,”
ibid.
In
America ,
strong religious antagonism to the feast of Christmas lasted from 1620 to 1750
– 130 years! In 1776 General George Washington surprise-attacked the German
Hessians on December 25, winning a critical Revolutionary War battle by
defeating the Christmas-celebrating, drunken German mercenaries. Obviously,
Christmas was not an important celebration for the father of our country!
Henry Ward Beecher, clergyman and lecturer, wrote in 1874
of his boyhood in
New England , “To me Christmas is a
foreign day, and I shall die so. When I was a boy I wondered what Christmas
was. I knew there was such a time, because we had an Episcopal church in our
town, and I saw them dressing it with evergreens, and wondered what they were
taking the woods in church for; but I got no satisfactory explanation. A little
later I understood it was a Romish institution, kept up by the Romish Church.”
Eventually the major Protestant denominations accepted Christmas, “although
they reacted violently against the corruption of the Christkindl, the Christ
Child, into ’Kriss Kringle,’ ”
Celebrations ,
pp. 315-316.
Thanks for the Memories?
Can anyone who sincerely seeks to worship in purity and
truth continue practicing a legacy from rank Mystery worship?
“But Christmas gives so many memories,” some may argue.
“What’s so wrong with giving the children happiness and joy at this time of the
year?”
From a purely human standpoint, probably nothing.
If Christmas existed apart from a Creator who has very clear expectations for
worship, then no harm would be done to celebrate it.
Christmas, however, is a religious holiday as well as a
secular observance. Its pagan rites Almighty Yahweh outright and forcefully
condemns in the Scriptures. Because of that fact alone we must heed when He
thunders, “Learn not the way of the heathen!” Jeremiah 10:2.  Nor is it
acceptable to the Father in heaven to take only what seems to be properly
religious about Christmas and downplay the pagan attributes.
Those seeking True Worship cannot mix the holy with the
profane. Paul writes, 14: “Be not unequally yoked together with unbelievers:
for what fellowship hath righteousness with unrighteousness?
and
what communion hath light with darkness?
2Corinthians
6:14 .
We simply cannot pretend to be worshiping in truth while
partaking in pagan worship rites that the Bible condemns.
They Worshiped Trees
Space prohibits us from detailing all of the customs of
Christmas and their origins in the mystery religions of ancient peoples, but
the Christmas tree deserves special note because of its prominent role. In Old
Testament times an indispensable part of Baal worship involved the asherah, a
sacred tree stem or pole (from which we get the May pole and totem pole). The
asherah was a carryover of even more ancient tree worship. These asherah were
used by the Canaanites in what the King James Version calls “groves.” Typically
asherah sites included an altar and a stone pillar (a survivor of even older
stone-worship).
Some historians believe asherahs were connected with
phallic worship. “At first [asherah] may have been living trees (Deut.
16:21 ), but in later usage were wooden poles,
perhaps erected to represent a tree,”
Eerdman ’s
Bible Dictionury ,
p. 93. Rather than condemn and destroy this
rite of Canaanite Baal worship that they found in the Promised Land, the
Israelites, as was their custom, chose instead to indulge in it. And because of
that Almighty Yahweh allowed
Israel
to be taken into captivity and nearly destroyed. Read 2Kings 17:9-11.
The “green tree” is mentioned 13 times in Scripture and in
every instance it is linked with idolatry! Can we find much difference between
idolizing trees anciently and   adoration
of
Christmas trees today? Notice what the prophet Jeremiah wrote in connection
with tree-idol worship: “Thus says Yahweh, learn not the way of the heathen ...
for the customs of the people are vain: for one cutteth a tree out of the
forest, the work of the hands of the workman, with the axe. They deck it with
silver and with gold; they fasten it with nails and with
hammers,
that
it move not. They are upright as the palm tree, but speak
not: they
must needs
be
borne, because they cannot go
...” Jeremiah 10:2-5.
Although based in mystery worship, the modern Christmas
tree traces to
Europe . “...tree worship is well attested
for all the great European families of the Aryan stock. Amongst the Celts the
oak-worship of the Druids is familiar to everyone. Sacred groves were common
among the ancient Germans, and tree-worship is hardly extinct among their
descendants at the present day”
( The Golden Bough,
p. 58).
The ancients were very concerned about the dead vegetation
in December and the waning of the sun. Fir trees were always green, symbolic of
life, and to the ancients represented immortality in a dead world. They were
often set on fire to portray and beckon back the sun, hence the modern practice
of stringing trees with Christmas lights and round bulbs and balls. Ultimately,
the Christmas evergreen springs from that old Babylonian, Nimrod. It represents
the resurrected and reincarnated man-deity. “Now the Yule Log is the dead stock
of Nimrod, deified as the sun-god, but cut down by his enemies; the Christmas
tree is
Nimrod redivivus
– the slain god come to life again,”
The
Two Babylons .
p. 98.
He was reborn as
his son Tammuz.
Yule (from
huel
meaning wheel) was a Germanic and
Celtic sunfeast in the period December-January which became absorbed into
Christmas. It commemorated the turn of the sun and the lengthening of the
day.  The Christmas tree wasn’t found in
America
until 1821, brought by the Pennsylvania Germans. Christmas
itself
wasn’t recognized until 1836, when
Alabama
became the first state in
America
to make it a legal holiday.
Virtually every Christmas custom is connected with some
man-made rite or heathen tradition that has little or nothing to do with the
Bible or True Worship.
The
Right Alternative: True Bible Holy Days
In the final analysis, how could Almighty Yahweh expect His
people to observe Christmas, which is so thoroughly steeped in heathen ritual?
He kept the month as well as the day of the Savior’s birth hidden. The answer
is obvious and clear – He never wanted it to be observed! If He did, He would
have told us when and how it was to be kept, just as He did for those days He
commanded in His Word.
Clearly, if Christmas were commanded in the Bible, few
would be observing it — as opposed to the vast millions around the world who
indulge in this ritual today. That should be proof enough that Christmas is not
Scriptural. What Yahweh commands, man ignores; what He prohibits, man indulges
in.
Once we are enlightened to the truth of Christmas, we find
the holiday not only distasteful but totally unacceptable to Yahweh.
Israel
was condemned for sun worship in Ezekiel 8. Similar rites based in sun and
fertility worship come alive each December 25.
Now that you know the truth, you must make a decision. Do I
continue keeping a
nonBiblical
observance that Yahweh
condemns? Or do I start honoring the very days He commands in His Word for all
True Worshipers?
His seven annual Feasts are found in Leviticus 23, the only
“holidays” sanctioned in the Scriptures. These Feasts were kept by
Israel ,
the patriarchs, the Messiah and His apostles, and will be kept worldwide in the   coming
Kingdom (see Isa. 66:2-3, Ezek. 45, Zech.
14:16 -18).
The choice is yours, and so is
the promise of salvation for all who obey and follow the Truth--
http://www.yrm.org/b-day-sun.htm
Second Article
http://www.seedofabraham.net/christmas.html
CHRISTMAS
by
Richard
A. Davis
edited
by
Avram Yehoshua
If we were to ask several people the meaning of Christmas,
80% of them would say, 'The birthday of Christ, of course.' Most of the others
would say, 'The day we celebrate the birthday of Christ, since we really don't
know just when He was born.' Several years ago that would have been my answer
too.
About 23 years ago, just before Christmas, my family and I had returned from
church and were listening to a well-known evangelist on the car radio. He was
saying, 'Let's put Christ back into Christmas.' The thought appealed to me and
I thought, 'Yes, let's put Christ back into Christmas.' I was surprised to hear
a small Voice within me say, 'How can you put Christ back into something He was
never in?!
This not only surprised me, but alarmed me as well. What was the meaning of
this? I had been raised in a Christian home and all my life I had been taught
that December 25th was the birthday of the Lord Jesus Christ. I had accepted
that without question. Now though, I was being challenged about it. So, I set
about trying to prove what I believed.
First of all, I re-read the accounts in the Scriptures concerning the birth of
our Lord. I didn't immediately find anything there that told when He was born.
I went next to the library to research 'Christmas'. This is what I found:
'Christmas (i.e. the Mass of Christ) was not among the
earliest festivals of the Church, and before the 5th century there was no
general consensus of opinion as to when it should come on the calendar, whether
on January 6th, March 25th or December 25th.' (Encyclopedia Britannica)
'In Britain, December 25th was a festival long before the conversion to
Christianity, for Bede relates that "the ancient peoples of the Anglo
began the year on December 25th when we now celebrate the birth of the Lord;
and the very night which is now so holy to us, they called the mother's night,
by the reason we suspect of the ceremonies which in the night long vigil they
performed.'" (Encyclopedia Britannica)
'It was according to many authorities not celebrated in the first centuries of
the Christian Church, as the Christian usage in general was to celebrate the
death of remarkable persons, rather than their birth' (Encyclopedia Americana)
'It is unknown just when it originated, but surely December 25th was not
generally observed as the date prior to Chrysostom's time (4th century) in the
Eastern Church, although much earlier in the the Western Church. There was no
uniformity in the period of observing the Nativity among the early churches.
Some held the festival in the month of April or May, others in January. January
6th was the usual date for the feast of the Nativity in the Eastern Church and
still continues to be the date in the Armenian Church.
It is impossible to establish any date as the exact time in the year of the
birth of Christ. It is often objected that December 25th cannot be the true
date, for it is then the rainy season in Israel, when shepherds would hardly
have been watching their flocks by night in the fields...' (The New
International Encyclopedia)
This much of my research had
pointed out two things. One, the encyclopedias didn't seem to have the
information as to when Christ was born.
And two, that
December 25th didn't seem to be that time.
What they did point out
however, was that it was not celebrated in the first centuries of the Christian
Church.
And that when it began to be celebrated, the date
varied among the churches.
This concerned me.
A question arose. If God had wanted us to celebrate the birth of His Son,
wouldn't He have made the date known to us in His Word? My studies so far had
told me what it was not, now to find out the original reason for the
celebration of December 25th.
WHOSE
BIRTHDAY?
Further research brought more light upon the subject:
'In the 5th century, the Western Church ordered it to be
celebrated forever on the day of the old Roman feast of the birth of Sol, as no
certain knowledge of the day of Christ's birth existed. Among the German and
Celtic tribes, the winter solstice was considered an important turning point of
the year. They held their chief festival of Yule to commemorate the return of
the burning wheel. The holly, mistletoe, Yule log and the wassail bowl are
relics and symbolic of pre-Christian times ...( Encyclopedia
Americana)
'The early church was eager to replace pagan festivals by Christian ones. As
Christianity spread, the feast of winter solstice, the time when the day begins
to increase and light to triumph over darkness was easily turned into the feast
of Christ, the light of life. Many of the great beliefs and usages of the old
German and also Romans, relating to this matter, passed over from heathen
practice into Christianity and have survived to the present day.' (The New
International Encyclopedia)
Now I had found that since no one seemed to know just when
Christ was born, Christianity had adopted someone else's birthday. Who was this
Sol anyway upon which so
much honor
had been bestowed?
And who or what was this burning wheel? Here was a 'chief festival' held in his
honor and it had come down from pre-Christian times, and had survived to this
present day. I had to know who this was that held so
much
honor .
'The early Church Fathers probably chose December 25th
because the feast of the sun, or winter solstice, was a familiar Roman feast
celebrating the victory of light over darkness. This idea was easily turned
from a pagan to a Christian one since Christians consider Christ as the light
of life.' (The World Book) 'The real birthday of Christ is unknown. In Rome it
was kept on December 25th from about 330 AD onward, when to the 'birth of the
unconquered sun' or winter solstice was opposed that of the 'sun of justice'
(Christ); it can scarcely date from the 3rd century, for the earliest
Christians did not keep birthdays.' (Collier's Encyclopedia)
Oh, there was the answer.
The birth of the 'unconquered sun.'
That didn't sound too
good. Not only was December 25th not the birthday of our Lord, but it was the
time that the ancient peoples celebrated the birth of the sun!
This opened up another study for me, that of sun-worship. Further study on the
subject of sun-worship took me all the way back to ancient
Babylon .
It seems that shortly after the Flood, man realized that the sun traveled
southward for a certain length of time, during which time the days became
shorter and shorter. Then, they noted that there was a day when a noticeable
change was observed, and the 'return of the burning wheel' was celebrated.
Light began once again to triumph over darkness; the sun was 'born again.' And
so the 'Nativity of the Sun' became the chief winter festival.
There were several other aspects of worship involved which also included the
other celestial bodies, but the sun was considered 'chief.' It was the sun that
was thought to rule the heavens and the earth. It was the thing which they
thought, gave them life.
THE
TREE ,
MISTLETOE
AND
YULE
Then I wondered how the Christmas tree and other Christmas
favorites were associated with this winter festival. The World Book, under
Origin of Christmas Tree related this:
'Several scholars believe the Christmas tree began in early
Rome .
It appears in
Germany
in literature in 1604. Tree worship was common in Scandinavian countries. The
Swedes and Norwegians still place a small fir tree or a branch on the
ridge-pole of a newly built house for good luck. When the pagans of northern
Europe
became Christians, they made their sacred evergreen trees a part of the
Christian festivals and decorated the trees with gilded nuts, candles (a
carry-over from sun worship), and apples to stand for the stars, sun and moon.'
Opening the World Book under Yule, I read this:
'The early pagans of Scandinavian countries held Yule
festivals near the end of each year. After Christianity was introduced into
Europe ,
these festivals became Christian celebrations. The custom of burning a Yule log
started in pagan times. The early Norsemen honored Thor, their god of war by
burning a Yule log with great ceremony during the Yule season.'
This really didn't tell me the
origin of these things. However, it did say that they were a 'carry-over from
sun worship.' My studies again took me back to ancient
Babylon .
It was nearly 4,000 years ago that these things originated. During the winter
months when vegetation died and things looked bleak, it was noted that there
were some things which stayed green. Among them were the evergreen trees (the
fir, palm, holly, etc.) and the mistletoe.
The mistletoe was generally found in trees that were not themselves evergreen,
so it was quite noticeable. The ancient peoples thought that those things that
stayed green all winter somehow had the substance of the gods in them (of which
the chief was the sun). So, they began to worship these ever-green things in
relation to their great Sun god. They even took new born babes and tied them to
the branches of evergreen trees. If they survived the night, they were
dedicated to the sun god.
As these practices came down from
Babylon
to
Egypt ,
Greece
and
Rome , they took on different
names. But the practices remained the same. December 25th was claimed to be the
birthday of the chief gods from
Babylon
to
Rome , regardless of their
different names.
The names of the gods seemed to vary in accordance with the name of the person
ruling the people. Each succeeding ruler of the people wanted to be deified.
The original Babylonian festival started when Semiramis, the wife of Nimrod,
claimed that overnight, an evergreen tree sprang up from a dead tree stump
beside his grave. The dead stump supposedly symbolized her dead husband Nimrod.
The new evergreen tree was Nimrod come to life again in the person of the god
Tammuz.
So, the practice of burning the dead stump began and the following morning (it
was said) the evergreen tree had appeared; the god had been 'born again' from
the dead tree stump in the form of the evergreen tree. The stump or Yule log,
represented the dead stock of Nimrod and the Christmas tree was Nimrod revived,
deified as the Sun god or the 'son of the Sun.'
THE UNDECORATED
TREE
By now my head was in a spin. All of this was so new to me.
I had truly believed that December 25 was the birthday of the Lord Jesus
Christ. To find that it wasn't really bothered me. To find that it was a
carry-over from sun worship bothered me even more.
It is not an easy thing to discard from one's mind, that which had been put
into it from childhood. At this point I began to justify and said, 'Oh, it
doesn't really matter whether it is the birthday of Jesus or not. We are
honoring Him and that's all that really counts.'
Then just before the next Christmas, I was sitting by the fire one evening
reading the Bible. My wife was putting up lights around the windows and was in
the process of decorating the Christmas tree. She wanted me to come and help
her and got a bit upset when I didn't do so right away. She fell from the
ladder and that really upset her. I checked to see if she was hurt and helped
her up and then asked her to come and sit beside me. I was reading in Jeremiah
10:2-5:
'Thus says the Lord: Learn not the way of the heathen and
be not dismayed at the signs of heaven. For the heathen are dismayed at them.
For the customs of the peoples are vain. For one cuts a tree out of the forest,
the work of the hands of the workman with the axe. They deck it with silver and
with gold. They fasten it with nails and with the hammer that it moves not.
They are upright as the palm tree, but speak not. They must be lifted to go
anywhere, because they cannot walk on their own. Be not afraid of them. For
they cannot do evil, neither also is it in them to do
good .'
The words just seemed to leap out at me. My wife said, 'Oh,
but we are not worshiping the tree like they did then.' But the words 'Learn
not the way of the heathen' began to burn themselves in my mind. And I couldn't
help but see the connection between how God felt about the tree cut out of the
forest and decked with gold and silver, and our Christmas tree. I began to feel
uneasy about what we were doing 'for Jesus.'
The Christmas lights were not strung up that year and the tree remained undecorated.
Then one day, while reading in Deuteronomy 12:29-32 I saw:
'When the Lord your God has cut off before you the
nations whom you are about to enter to dispossess them, when you have
dispossessed them and live in their land, take care that you are not snared
into imitating them, after they have been destroyed before you. Do not inquire
concerning their gods, saying, "How did these nations worship their gods?
I also want to do the same." You must not do the same for the Lord your
God, because every abhorrent thing that the Lord hates they have done for their
gods. They would even burn their sons and their daughters in the fire to their
gods.You must diligently observe everything that I command you. Do not add to
it or take anything from it.'
These Scriptures came alive for
me. I began to see how I was caught in a snare not of my own making. I was
imitating the rituals for the pagan gods of
Babylon
and offering it to my dear Jesus.
I was worshiping Jesus the way the pagans worshiped their gods. I saw that God
did not desire it. That it was not pleasing to Him.When Christmas came around
again, we found ourselves not putting up the tree or exchanging presents. It
was a little strange and there was a pull to participate, but we knew that it
wasn't of God. I did not want to sin against Jesus.
I have found since then that there is so much anxiety attached to Christmas.
Getting presents for everyone, while it seems that the whole world is doing the
same thing, is no longer missed. There is such a relief, where there was so
much pressure before. Not that pressure is bad, if it is from God. But we could
see that Christmas pressure was not His.
SANTA CLAUS
Another thing we realized quite
early that had to be discarded was Santa. Regardless of where he came from, I
knew he had to go. In Deuteronomy 4:25, the Lord talks about the Children of
Israel making 'a graven image' to provoke Him.
Some of the meanings of the word 'image' are, 'a mental picture of anything not
actually present to the senses; a picture drawn by the imagination; a symbol.'
When a man dresses to look like an imaginary figure (Santa), it's still an
image.
The practice of teaching children that Santa is the judge of their behavior,
giving them gifts if they're good, or withholding them if they're not, is
unbiblical and a lie. We set up an image in their minds as to who is watching
them. Where does God ever tell us to lie to our children, so they can feel
good? And how many times have we been told and in turn tell our children, that
Santa will bring them gifts?
How many times have you heard well meaning pastors proclaim from their pulpits
that Jesus was born on December 25th?
Or that we're doing it
to honor the birth of Jesus.
Where in God's Word does He tell us to
honor the birth of His Son? Because if He does not tell us, then by whose
authority are we as Christians proclaiming a holy day (Christmas) to ourselves
and the world?
Do we have authority to create a holy day unto the Lord? And if we did, why
pick a day of pagan sun-worship? I believe that if Jesus wanted us to celebrate
His birthday, we would find it somewhere in the New Testament. If not, then
it's sin.
When they finally come to the truth about Santa not being real, what will they
think about this Jesus that you've been telling them? How can a child trust us
if we lie to them?
Would you really trust someone if they
continually lied to you?
You might say, 'I do it for my children. Their faces are so glad. How could I
take that away from them? Did you ever think that you could give them presents
once a month? Out of a love for them, not associated with pagan things? Why
must it be at Christmas?
Your children will give you everlasting thanks for telling them the truth and
walking in it. Truth does have its reward also. It's called Life. God's Life
and Light is not in illusion. Illusion may appear as light, but has no true
Light in it.
STILL UNDECIDED?
When we realize that all of these practices originated in
Babylon ,
we are reminded of another Scripture in Revelation 18:1-2, 4-5:
'And after these things I saw another angel come down
from the Heavens, having great power and the earth was lit by his glory. He
cried mightily with a strong voice saying, " Babylon
the Great has fallen, has fallen and has become the habitation of
devils..." And I heard another voice from the Heavens saying. "Come
out of her My People, that you
be
not partakers of her
sins, and that you receive not of her plagues. For her sins have reached unto
the Heavens and God has remembered her wickedness."'
The Scriptures are referring to
those same practices and customs that originated in ancient
Babylon .
In 1st Kings 12:33, Jeroboam, King of the northern Kingdom of
Israel ,
ordained a feast. It was in the eighth month, even in the month that he devised
in his own heart.
In 1st Kings 14:14 it states: 'And God will give
Israel
up because of the sins of Jeroboam, who did sin and made
Israel
to sin.' The golden calf that Jeroboam made was associated with sun worship.
Does God change His Mind? Does He destroy a people at one point in time for
doing something, and allow another people later to do it?
We have more knowledge than they did in many things. The Scriptures tell us
that to whom much is given, much is required. If they could not worship God any
way that they wanted to, how can we? If King Jeroboam could not ordain a feast,
if he could not make a day holy that God hadn't spoken of, then how can we
think that we can take a pagan day, rename it Christmas, the 'birth of Christ' and
that it would be alright with God?
The early Christian Church refused these practices. But over time, these pagan
practices were baptized with the name of 'Christian' and they gained
acceptance. But this is nothing less than a tradition of man. And we know what
Jesus had to say about those in authority teaching for the commandment of God,
the traditions of men.
If God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ had wanted us to celebrate His
birthday or His being born, don't you think that it would be found somewhere in
the New Testament?
You might say that there is good in Christmas. But what I have seen is that
Christmas time is a season where the carnal man runs around 'doing good.' If
that is not the case, then why does the world get involved with Christmas?
Since when does the world follow God? I'm saying that we need to get back to
worshiping Jesus the way He would want to be worshiped. Christmas is man giving
to God, worship He does not desire. Christmas is sin. It is an offense to our
Creator and Savior. It has no biblical leg to stand on and reeks of paganism.
As you decide (hopefully) not to keep Christmas, seek the Lord for wisdom in
how to relate this to others. Many are not ready for this. We need to be loving
and Christ-like in sharing this truth with others. As for me and my house, we
will worship the Lord...the way He chooses.
References :
The Two Babylons.................by Alexander Hislop
The Ancient Gods.........................by E.O. James
The Mother Goddess Cult..............by E.O. James
Babylon Mystery Religion...........by R. Woodrow
http://www.seedofabraham.net/christmas.html
Third Article—
http://www.religion-encyclopedia.com/C/christmas.htm
Christmas
Christmas . The Christian feast of Jesus' birth, celebrated
on 25 DEc. Its observance is first attested in
Rome
in 336. Probably the date was chosen to oppose the
feast of the 'birthday of the unconquered sun' on the winter solstice.
From John Bowker,
ed.,
The Concise
Oxford Dictionary of World Religions
(2000). Text © Oxford University Press.
Christmas . The word for Christmas in late Old English is
Cristes Maesse , the Mass of Christ,
first found in 1038, and
Cristes-messe ,
in 1131. In Dutch it is
Kerst-misse ,
in Latin
Dies Natalis , whence
comes the French
Noël , and
Italian
Il natale ; in German
Weihnachtsfest , from the preceeding
sacred vigil. The term Yule is of disputed origin. It is unconnected with any
word meaning "wheel". The name in Anglo-Saxon was
geol , feast:
geola , the name of a month (cf.
Icelandic iol a feast in December).
EARLY CELEBRATION
Christmas was not among the earliest
festivals of the Church. Irenaeus and Tertullian omit it from their lists of
feasts; Origen, glancing perhaps at the discreditable imperial Natalitia,
asserts (in Lev. Hom. viii in Migne, P.G., XII, 495) that in the Scriptures
sinners alone, not saints, celebrate their birthday; Arnobius ( VII , 32 in P.L., V, 1264) can still ridicule the
"birthdays" of the gods.
Alexandria . The first evidence of the feast is from
Egypt . About A.D. 200, Clement of Alexandria ( Strom.,
I, xxi in P.G., VIII, 888) says that certain
Egyptian theologians "over curiously" assign, not the year alone,
but the day of Christ's birth, placing it on 25 Pachon (20 May) in the
twenty-eighth year of Augustus. [Ideler (Chron., II, 397, n.) thought they
did this believing that the ninth month, in which Christ was born, was the
ninth of their own calendar.] Others reached the date of 24 or 25 Pharmuthi
(19 or 20 April). With Clement's evidence may be mentioned the "De
paschæ computus", written in 243 and falsely ascribed to Cyprian (P.L.,
IV, 963 sqq.), which places Christ's birth on 28 March, because on that day
the material sun was created. But Lupi has shown (Zaccaria, Dissertazioni
ecc. del p. A.M. Lupi, Faenza, 1785, p. 219) that there is no month in the
year to which respectable authorities have not assigned Christ's birth. Clement,
however, also tells us that the Basilidians celebrated the Epiphany, and with
it, probably, the Nativity, on 15 or 11 Tybi (10 or 6 January). At any rate
this double commemoration became popular, partly because the apparition to
the shepherds was considered as one manifestation of Christ's glory, and was
added to the greater manifestations celebrated on 6 January; partly because
at the baptism-manifestation many codices (e.g. Codex Bezæ) wrongly give the
Divine words as sou ei ho houios mou ho agapetos, ego semeron gegenneka se
(Thou art my beloved Son, this day have I begotten thee) in lieu of en soi
eudokesa (in thee I am well pleased), read in Luke 3:22. Abraham Ecchelensis
(Labbe, II, 402) quotes the Constitutions of the Alexandrian Church for a dies
Nativitatis et Epiphaniæ in Nicæan times; Epiphanius (Hær., li, ed. Dindorf,
1860, II, 483) quotes an extraordinary semi-Gnostic ceremony at Alexandria in
which, on the night of 5-6 January, a cross-stamped Korê was carried in
procession round a crypt, to the chant, "Today at this hour Korê gave
birth to the Eternal"; John Cassian records in his
"Collations" (X, 2 in P.L., XLIX, 820), written 418-427, that the
Egyptian monasteries still observe the "ancient custom"; but on 29
Choiak (25 December) and 1 January, 433, Paul of Emesa preached before Cyril
of Alexandria, and his sermons (see Mansi, IV, 293; appendix to Act. Conc.
Eph.)
show
that the December celebration was then
firmly established there, and calendars prove its permanence. The December
feast therefore reached
Egypt
between 427 and 433.
Cyprus ,
Mesopotamia ,
Armenia ,
Asia
Minor . In Cyprus, at the
end of the fourth century, Epiphanius asserts against the Alogi (Hær., li,
16, 24 in P. G., XLI, 919, 931) that Christ was born on 6 January and
baptized on 8 November. Ephraem Syrus (whose hymns belong to Epiphany, not to
Christmas) proves that
Mesopotamia
still put the birth feast thirteen days after the
winter solstice; i.e. 6 January;
Armenia
likewise ignored, and still ignores, the December
festival. (Cf. Euthymius, "Pan. Dogm.", 23 in P.G., CXXX, 1175;
Niceph., "Hist. Eccl,", XVIII, 53 in P.G., CXLVII, 440; Isaac,
Catholicos of Armenia in eleventh or twelfth century, "Adv.
Armenos", I, xii, 5 in P.G., CXXII, 1193; Neale, "Holy Eastern
Church", Introd., p. 796). In Cappadocia, Gregory of Nyssa's sermons on
St. Basil (who died before 1 January, 379) and the two following, preached on
St. Stephen's feast (P.G., XLVI, 788; cf, 701, 721), prove that in 380 the
25th December was already celebrated there, unless, following Usener's too
ingenious arguments (Religionsgeschichtliche Untersuchungen, Bonn, 1889,
247-250), one were to place those sermons in 383. Also, Asterius of Amaseia
(fifth century) and Amphilochius of Iconium (contemporary of Basil and Gregory)
show that in their dioceses both the feasts of Epiphany and Nativity were
separate (P.G., XL, 337 XXXIX, 36).
Jerusalem . In 385, Silvia of Bordeaux (or Etheria, as it
seems clear she should be called) was profoundly impressed by the splendid
Chilhood feasts at
Jerusalem . They had a definitely "Nativity"
colouring; the bishop proceeded nightly to
Bethlehem , returning to
Jerusalem
for the day celebrations. The Presentation was
celebrated forty days after. But this calculation starts from 6 January, and
the feast lasted during the octave of that date. (Peregr.
Sylv.,
ed. Geyer, pp. 75 sq.) Again (p. 101) she mentions as high festivals Easter
and Epiphany alone. In 385, therefore, 25 December was not observed at
Jerusalem . This checks the so-called correspondence between
Cyril of Jerusalem (348-386) and Pope Julius I (337-352), quoted by John of
Nikiu (c. 900) to convert
Armenia
to 25 December (see P.L., VIII, 964 sqq.). Cyril
declares that his clergy cannot, on the single feast of Birth and Baptism,
make a double procession to
Bethlehem
and
Jordan . (This later practice is here an anachronism.) He
asks Julius to assign the true date of the nativity "from census
documents brought by Titus to
Rome "; Julius assigns 25 December. Another
document (Cotelier, Patr.
Apost.,
I, 316, ed. 1724)
makes Julius write thus to Juvenal of Jerusalem (c. 425-458), adding that
Gregory Nazianzen at
Constantinople
was being criticized for "halving" the
festival. But Julius died in 352, and by 385 Cyril had made no change;
indeed, Jerome, writing about 411 (in
Ezech.,
P.L.,
XXV, 18), reproves
Palestine
for keeping Christ's birthday (when He hid
Himself) on the Manifestation feast. Cosmas Indicopleustes suggests (P.G.,
LXXXVIII, 197) that even in the middle of the sixth century
Jerusalem
was peculiar in combining the two commemorations,
arguing from Luke 3:23 that Christ's baptism day was the anniversary of His
birthday. The commemoration, however, of David and James the Apostle on 25
December at
Jerusalem
accounts for the deferred feast. Usener, arguing
from the "Laudatio S. Stephani" of Basil of Seleucia (c. 430. --
P.G., LXXXV, 469), thinks that Juvenal tried at least to introduce this
feast, but that Cyril's greater name attracted that event to his own period.
Antioch . In
Antioch , on the feast of St. Philogonius, Chrysostom
preached an important sermon. The year was almost certainly 386, though
Clinton
gives 387, and Usener, by a long rearrangement of
the saint's sermons, 388 (Religionsgeschichtl.
Untersuch.,
pp. 227-240). But between February, 386, when Flavian ordained Chrysostom
priest,
and December is ample time for the preaching of
all the sermons under discussion. (See Kellner, Heortologie, Freiburg, 1906,
p. 97, n. 3). In view of a reaction to certain Jewish rites and feasts,
Chrysostom tries to unite
Antioch
in celebrating Christ's birth on 25 December, part of the community having
already kept it on that day for at least ten years. In the West, he says, the
feast was thus kept, anothen; its introduction into
Antioch
he had always sought, conservatives always
resisted. This time he was successful; in a crowded church he defended the
new custom. It was no novelty; from
Thrace
to
Cadiz
this feast was observed -- rightly, since
its
miraculously rapid diffusion proved its genuineness.
Besides, Zachary, who, as high-priest, entered the
Temple
on the Day of Atonement, received therefore
announcement of John's conception in September; six months later Christ was
conceived, i.e. in March, and born accordingly in December.
Finally, though never at
Rome , on authority he knows that the census papers of
the Holy Family are still there. [This appeal to Roman archives is as old as
Justin Martyr ( Apol.,
I, 34, 35) and Tertullian
(Adv. Marc., IV, 7, 19). Julius, in the Cyriline forgeries, is said to have
calculated the date from Josephus, on the same unwarranted assumptions about
Zachary as did Chrysostom.]
Rome , therefore, has observed 25 December long enough
to allow of Chrysostom speaking at least in 388 as above (P.G., XLVIII, 752,
XLIX, 351).
Constantinople . In 379 or 380 Gregory Nazianzen made himself
exarchos of the new feast, i.e. its initiator, in
Constantinople , where, since the death of Valens, orthodoxy was
reviving. His three Homilies (see Hom. xxxviii in P.G., XXXVI) were preached
on successive days (Usener, op. cit., p. 253) in the private chapel called
Anastasia. On his exile in 381, the feast disappeared.
According, however, to John of Nikiu,
Honorius, when he was present on a visit, arranged with Arcadius for the
observation of the feast on the Roman date. Kellner puts this visit in 395;
Baumstark (Oriens Chr., 1902, 441-446), between 398 and 402. The latter
relies on a letter of Jacob of Edessa quoted by George of Beeltân, asserting
that Christmas was brought to Constantinople by Arcadius and Chrysostom from
Italy, where, "according to the histories", it had been kept from
Apostolic times. Chrysostom's episcopate lasted from 398 to 402; the feast
would therefore have been introduced between these dates by Chrysostom
bishop, as at
Antioch
by Chrysostom priest. But Lübeck (Hist. Jahrbuch.,
XXVIII, I, 1907, pp. 109-118) proves Baumstark's evidence invalid. More
important, but scarcely better accredited, is Erbes' contention (Zeitschrift
f. Kirchengesch., XXVI, 1905, 20-31) that the feast was brought in by
Constantine
as early as 330-35.
Rome . At Rome the earliest evidence is in the
Philocalian Calendar (P. L., XIII, 675; it can be seen as a whole in J.
Strzygowski, Kalenderbilder des Chron. von Jahre 354, Berlin, 1888), compiled
in 354, which contains three important entries. In the civil calendar 25
December is marked "Natalis Invicti". In the "Depositio
Martyrum" a list of Roman or early and universally venerated martyrs,
under 25 December is found "VIII kal.
ian .
natus
Christus in Betleem Iudeæ". On "VIII kal.
mart ." (22 February) is also mentioned St. Peter's
Chair. In the list of consuls are four anomalous ecclesiastical entries: the
birth and death days of Christ, the entry into
Rome , and martyrdom of Saints Peter and Paul. The
significant entry is "Chr. Cæsare et Paulo sat. XIII.
hoc .
cons. Dns. ihs. XPC natus est VIII Kal.
ian .
d . ven. luna XV," i.e. during the consulship of
(Augustus) Cæsar and Paulus Our Lord Jesus Christ was born on the eighth
before the calends of January (25 December), a Friday, the fourteenth day of
the moon. The details clash with tradition and possibility. The epact, here
XIII, is normally XI; the year is A.U.C. 754, a date first suggested two centuries
later; in no year between 751 and 754 could 25 December fall on a Friday;
tradition is constant in placing Christ's birth on Wednesday. Moreover the
date given for Christ's death (duobus Geminis
coss.,
i.e. A.D. 29) leaves Him only twenty eight, and one-quarter years of life.
Apart from this, these entries in a consul list are manifest interpolations.
But are not the two entries in the "Depositio Martyrum" also such?
Were the day of Christ's birth in the flesh alone there found, it might stand
as heading the year of martyrs' spiritual natales; but 22 February is there
wholly out of place. Here, as in the consular fasti, popular feasts were
later inserted for convenience' sake. The civil calendar alone was not added
to, as it was useless after the abandonment of pagan festivals. So, even if
the "Depositio Martyrum" dates, as is probable, from 336, it is not
clear that the calendar contains evidence earlier than Philocalus himself,
i.e. 354, unless indeed pre-existing popular celebration must be assumed to
render possible this official recognition. Were the Chalki manuscript of
Hippolytus genuine, evidence for the December feast would exist as early as
c. 205. The relevant passage [which exists in the Chigi manuscript Without
the bracketed words and is always so quoted before George Syncellus (c.
1000)] runs:
He gar prote parousia tou kyriou hemon he
ensarkos [en he gegennetai] en Bethleem, egeneto [pro okto kalandon
ianouarion hemera tetradi] Basileuontos Augoustou [tessarakoston kai deuteron
etos, apo de Adam] pentakischiliosto kai pentakosiosto etei epathen de
triakosto trito [pro okto kalandon aprilion, hemera paraskeun, oktokaidekato
etei Tiberiou Kaisaros, hypateuontos Hrouphou kai Hroubellionos. -- (Comm. In
Dan., iv, 23; Brotke; 19)
"For the first coming of Our Lord in
the flesh [in which He has been begotten], in
Bethlehem , took place [25 December, the fourth day] in the
reign of Augustus [the forty-second year, and] in the year 5500 [from Adam].
And He suffered in His thirty-third year [25 March, the parasceve, in the
eighteenth year of Tiberius Cæsar, during the consulate of Rufus and
Rubellio]."
Interpolation is certain, and admitted by
Funk, Bonwetsch, etc. The names of the consuls [which should be Fufius and
Rubellius] are wrong; Christ lives thirty-three years; in the genuine
Hippolytus, thirty-one; minute data are irrelevant in this discussion with
Severian millenniarists; it is incredible that Hippolytus should have known
these details when his contemporaries (Clement, Tertullian, etc.) are, when
dealing with the matter, ignorant or silent; or should, having published
them, have remained unquoted (Kellner, op. cit., p. 104, has an excursus on
this passage.)
St. Ambrose (de virg., iii, 1 in P. L.,
XVI, 219) preserves the sermon preached by Pope Liberius I at St. Peter's,
when, on Natalis Christi, Ambrose' sister, Marcellina, took the veil. This
pope reigned from May, 352 until 366, except during his years of exile,
355-357. If Marcellina became a nun only after the canonical age of twenty-five,
and if Ambrose was born only in 340, it is perhaps likelier that the event
occurred after 357. Though the sermon abounds in references appropriate to
the Epiphany (the marriage at Cana, the multiplication of loaves, etc.),
these seem due (Kellner, op. cit., p. 109) to sequence of thought, and do not
fix the sermon to 6 January, a feast unknown in Rome till much later. Usener,
indeed, argues (p. 272) that Liberius preached it on that day in 353,
instituting the Nativity feast in the December of the same year; but
Philocalus warrants our supposing that if preceded his pontificate by some
time, though Duchesne's relegation of it to 243 (Bull. crit., 1890, 3, pp. 41
sqq. ) may not commend itself to many. In the West the Council of Saragossa
(380) still ignores 25 December (see can. xxi, 2). Pope Siricius, writing in
385 (P. L., XII, 1134) to Himerius in
Spain , distinguishes the feasts of the Nativity and
Apparition; but whether he refers to Roman or to Spanish use is not clear.
Ammianus Marcellinus (XXI, ii) and Zonaras (Ann., XIII, 11) date a visit of
Julian the Apostate to a church at
Vienne
in
Gaul
on Epiphany and Nativity respectively. Unless there were two visits,
Vienne
in A.D. 361 combined the feasts, though on what day is still
doubtful. By the time of Jerome and Augustine, the December feast is
established, though the latter ( Epp.,
II, liv, 12,
in P.L., XXXIII, 200) omits it from a list of first-class festivals. From the
fourth century every Western calendar assigns it to 25 December. At
Rome , then, the Nativity was celebrated on 25 December
before 354; in the East, at
Constantinople , not before 379, unless with Erbes, and against
Gregory, we recognize it there in 330. Hence, almost universally has it been
concluded that the new date reached the East from
Rome
by way of the Bosphorus during the great
anti-Arian revival, and by means of the orthodox champions. De Santi (L'Orig.
delle Fest. Nat., in Civiltæ Cattolica, 1907), following Erbes, argues that
Rome took over the Eastern Epiphany, now with a definite Nativity colouring,
and, with as increasing number of Eastern Churches, placed it on 25 December;
later, both East and West divided their feast, leaving Ephiphany on 6
January, and Nativity on 25 December, respectively, and placing Christmas on
25 December and Epiphany on 6 January. The earlier hypothesis still seems
preferable.
ORIGIN OF DATE
The Gospels. Concerning the date of
Christ's birth the Gospels give no help; upon their data contradictory
arguments are based. The census would have been impossible in winter: a whole
population could not then be put in motion. Again, in winter it must have
been; then only field labour was suspended. But
Rome
was not thus considerate. Authorities moreover
differ as to whether shepherds could or would keep flocks exposed during the
nights of the rainy season.
Zachary's temple service. Arguments based
on Zachary's temple ministry are unreliable, though the calculations of
antiquity (see above) have been revived in yet more complicated form, e.g. by
Friedlieb (Leben J. Christi des Erlösers, Münster, 1887, p. 312). The
twenty-four classes of Jewish priests, it is urged, served each a week in the
Temple ; Zachary was in the eighth class, Abia. The
Temple
was destroyed 9 Ab, A.D. 70; late rabbinical
tradition says that class 1, Jojarib, was then serving. From these
untrustworthy data, assuming that Christ was born A.U.C. 749, and that never
in seventy turbulent years the weekly succession failed, it is calculated
that the eighth class was serving 2-9 October, A.U.C. 748, whence Christ's
conception falls in March, and birth presumably in December.
Kellner (op. cit., pp. 106, 107) shows how hopeless is
the
calculation of Zachary's week from any point before or after it.
Analogy to Old Testament festivals. It
seems impossible, on analogy of the relation of Passover and Pentecost to
Easter and Whitsuntide, to connect the Nativity with the feast of
Tabernacles, as did, e.g., Lightfoot (Horæ Hebr, et Talm., II, 32), arguing
from Old Testament prophecy, e.g. Zacharias 14:16 sqq,; combining, too, the
fact of Christ's death in Nisan with Daniel's prophecy of a three and
one-half years' ministry (9:27), he puts the birth in Tisri, i.e. September.
As undesirable is it to connect 25 December with the Eastern (December) feast
of Dedication (Jos. Ant. Jud., XII, vii, 6).
Natalis Invicti. The well-known solar
feast, however, of Natalis Invicti, celebrated on 25 December, has a strong
claim on the responsibility for our December date. For the history of the
solar cult, its position in the
Roman Empire , and
syncretism with Mithraism, see Cumont's epoch-making "Textes et
Monuments" etc., I, ii, 4, 6, p. 355. Mommsen (Corpus Inscriptionum
Latinarum, 12, p. 338) has collected the evidence for the feast, which
reached its climax of popularity under Aurelian in 274. Filippo del Torre in
1700 first saw its importance; it is marked, as has been said, without
addition in Philocalus' Calendar. It would be impossible here even to outline
the history of solar symbolism and language as applied to God, the Messiah,
and Christ in Jewish or Chrisian canonical, patristic, or devotional works.
Hymns and Christmas offices abound in instances; the texts are well arranged
by Cumont (op. cit., addit. Note C, p. 355).
The earliest rapprochement of the births
of Christ and the sun is in
Cypr.,
"De pasch.
Comp.", xix, "O quam præclare providentia ut illo die quo natus est
Sol . . . nasceretur Christus." - "O, how wonderfully acted
Providence
that on that day on which that Sun was born . . .
Christ should be born." - In the fourth century, Chrysostom, "del
Solst. Et Æquin." (II, p. 118, ed. 1588 ),
says:
"Sed et dominus noster nascitur mense decembris . . . VIII Kal. Ian. . .
. Sed et Invicti Natalem appelant. Quis utique tam invictus nisi dominus
noster? . . . Vel quod dicant Solis esse natalem, ipse est Sol
iustitiæ." - "But Our Lord, too, is born in the month of December .
. . the eight before the calends of January [25 December] . . ., But they
call it the 'Birthday of the Unconquered'. Who indeed is
so
unconquered as Our Lord . . .? Or, if they say that it is the birthday of the
Sun, He is the Sun of Justice." Already Tertullian ( Apol.,
16; cf. Ad. Nat., I, 13; Orig. c.
Cels.,
VIII, 67,
etc) had to assert that Sol was not the Christians' God; Augustine (Tract
xxxiv, in Joan. In P. L., XXXV, 1652) denounces the heretical indentification
of Christ with Sol. Pope Leo I (Serm. xxxvii in nat. dom.,
VII , 4; xxii, II, 6 in P. L., LIV, 218 and 198)
bitterly reproves solar survivals -- Christians, on the very doorstep of the
Apostles' basilica, turn to adore the rising sun. Sun-worship has bequeathed
features to modern popular worship in
Armenia , where Chistians had once temporarily and
externally conformed to the cult of the material sun (Cumont, op. cit., p.
356).
But even should a deliberate and
legitimate "baptism" of a pagan feast be seen here no more than the
transference of the date need be supposed. The "mountain-birth" of
Mithra and Christ's in the "grotto"
have
nothing in common: Mithra's adoring shepherds (Cumont, op. cit., I, ii, 4, p.
304 sqq.) are rather borrowed from Christian sources than vice versa.
Other theories of pagan origin. The origin
of Christmas should not be sought in the Saturnalia (1-23 December) nor even
in the
midnight
holy birth at Eleusis (see J.E. Harrison,
Prolegom., p. 549) with its probable connection through Phrygia with the
Naasene heretics, or even with the Alexandrian ceremony quoted above; nor yet
in rites analogous to the midwinter cult at Delphi of the cradled Dionysus,
with his revocation from the sea to a new birth (Harrison, op. cit., 402
sqq.).
The astronomical theory. Duchesne (Les
origines du culte chrétien, Paris, 1902, 262 sqq.) advances the
"astronomical" theory that, given 25 March as Christ's death-day
[historically impossible, but a tradition old as Tertullian (Adv. Jud., 8)],
the popular instinct, demanding an exact number of years in a Divine life,
would place His conception on the same date, His birth 25 December. This
theory is best supported by the fact that certain Montanists (Sozomen, Hist.
Eccl.,
VII , 18) kept Easter on 6 April; both 25 December and
6 January are thus simultaneously explained. The reckoning, moreover, is
wholly in keeping with the arguments based on number and astronomy and
"convenience", then so popular. Unfortunately, there is no
contemporary evidence for the celebration in the fourth century of Christ's
conception on 25 March.
Conclusion. The present writer in inclined
to think that, be the origin of the feast in East or West, and though the
abundance of analogous midwinter festivals may indefinitely have helped the
choice of the December date, the same instinct which set Natalis Invicti at
the winter solstice will have sufficed, apart from deliberate adaptation or
curious calculation, to set the Christian feast there too.
LITURGY
AND
CUSTOM
The calendar. The fixing of this date
fixed those too of Circumcision and Presentation; of Expectation and,
perhaps, Annunciation B.V.M.; and of Nativity and Conception of the Baptist
(cf. Thurston in Amer. Eccl. Rev., December, 1898). Till the tenth century
Christmas counted, in papal reckoning, as the beginning of the ecclesiastical
year, as it still does in Bulls; Boniface VIII (1294-1303) restored
temporarily this usage, to which Germany held longest.
Popular merry-making. Codex Theod., II, 8,
27 (cf. XV, 5,5) forbids, in 425, circus games on 25 December; though not
till Codex Just.,
III , 12, 6 (529) is cessation of work imposed. The
Second Council of Tours (can. xi, xvii) proclaims, in 566 or 567, the
sanctity of the "twelve days" from Christmas to Epiphany, and the
duty of Advent fast; that of Agde (506), in canons 63-64, orders a universal
communion, and that of Braga (563) forbids fasting on Christmas Day. Popular
merry-making, however, so increased that the "Laws of King Cnut",
fabricated c. 1110, order a fast from Christmas to Epiphany.
The three Masses. The Gelasian and
Gregorian Sacramentaries give three Masses to this feast, and these, with a
special and sublime martyrology, and dispensation, if necessary, from abstinence,
still mark our usage. Though
Rome
gives three Masses to the Nativity only,
Ildefonsus, a Spanish bishop, in 845, alludes to a triple mass on Nativity,
Easter, Whitsun, and Transfiguration (P.L., CVI, 888). These Masses, at
midnight , dawn, and in die, were mystically connected with
aboriginal, Judaic, and Christian dispensations, or (as by
St. Thomas , Summa Theologica
III :83:2 )
to the triple "birth" of Christ: in Eternity, in Time, and in the
Soul. Liturgical colours varied: black, white, red, or (e.g. at
Narbonne ) red, white, violet were used (Durand, Rat. Div.
Off., VI, 13). The Gloria was at first sung only in the first Mass of this
day.
The historical origin of this triple Mass
is probably as follows (cf. Thurston, in Amer. Eccl. Rev., January, 1899;
Grisar, Anal. Rom., I, 595; Geschichte Roms . . . im Mittelalter I, 607, 397;
Civ. Catt., 21 September, 1895, etc.): The first Mass, celebrated at the
Oratorium Præsepis in St. Mary Major -- a church probably immediately
assimilated to the Bethlehem basilica -- and the third, at St. Peter's,
reproduced in Rome the double Christmas Office mentioned by Etheria (see
above) at Bethlehem and Jerusalem. The second Mass was celebrated by the pope
in the "chapel royal" of the Byzantine Court officials on the Palatine,
i.e. St. Anastasia's church, originally called, like the basilica at
Constantinople, Anastasis, and like it built at first to reproduce the
Jerusalem Anastasis basilica -- and like it, finally, in abandoning the name
"Anastasis" for that of the martyr St. Anastasia. The second Mass
would therefore be a papal compliment to the imperial church on its patronal
feast. The three stations are thus accounted for, for by 1143 (cf. Ord.
Romani in P. L., LXXVIII, 1032) the pope abandoned distant St. Peter's, and
said the third Mass at the high altar of St. Mary Major. At this third Mass
Leo
III
inaugurated, in 800, by the coronation of
Charlemagne, the
Holy Roman
Empire . The day became a
favourite for court ceremonies, and on it, e.g., William of Normandy was
crowned at
Westminster .
Dramatic presentations. The history of the
dedication of the Oratorium Præsepis in the Liberian basilica, of the relics
there kept and their imitations, does not belong to this discussion [cf.
CRIB; RELICS. The data are well set out by Bonaccorsi (Il Natale, Rome, 1903,
ch. iv)], but the practice of giving dramatic, or at least spectacular,
expression to the incidents of the Nativity early gave rise to more or less
liturgical mysteries. The ordinaria of
Rouen
and of
Reims , for
instance, place the officium pastorum immediately after the Te Deum and
before Mass (cf. Ducange, Gloss. med. et inf. Lat., s.v. Pastores); the
latter Church celebrated a second "prophetical" mystery after
Tierce, in which Virgil and the Sibyl join with Old Testament prophets in
honouring Christ. (For Virgil and Nativity play and prophecy see authorities
in Comparetti, "Virgil in Middles Ages", p. 310 sqq.) "To
out-herod Herod", i.e. to over-act, dates from Herod's violence in these
plays.
The crib (creche) or nativity scene. St.
Francis of
Assisi
in 1223 originated the crib of today by laicizing
a hitherto ecclesiastical custom, henceforward extra-liturgical and popular.
The presence of ox and ass is due to a misinterpretation of Isaias i :3
and Habacuc 3:2 ("Itala" version), though
they appear in the unique fourth-century "Nativity" discovered in
the St. Sebastian catacombs in 1877. The ass on which Balaam rode in the
Reims
mystery won for the feast the title Festum Asinorum (Ducange, op.
cit., s.v. Festum).
Hymns and carols. The degeneration of
these plays in part occasioned the diffusion of noels, pastorali, and carols,
to which was accorded, at times, a quasi-liturgical position. Prudentius, in
the fourth century, is the first (and in that century alone) to hymn the
Nativity, for the "Vox clara" (hymn for Lauds in Advent) and
"Christe Redemptor" (Vespers and Matins of Christmas) cannot be
assigned to Ambrose. "A solis ortu" is certainly, however, by
Sedulius (fifth century). The earliest German Weihnachtslieder date from the
eleventh and twelfth centuries, the earliest noels from the eleventh, the
earliest carols from the thirteenth. The famous "Stabat Mater
Speciosa" is attributed to Jacopone da Todi (1230-1306); "Adeste
Fideles" is, at the earliest, of the seventeenth century. These
essentially popular airs, and even words, must, however, have existed long
before they were put down in writing.
Cards and presents. Pagan customs
centering round the January calends gravitated to Christmas. Tiele (Yule and
Christmas, London, 1899) has collected many interesting examples. The strenæ
(eacute;trennes) of the Roman 1 January (bitterly condemned by Tertullian, de
Idol., xiv and x, and by Maximus of Turin, Hom. ciii, de Kal. gentil., in P.
L., LVII, 492, etc.) survive as Christmas presents, cards, boxes.
The yule log. The calend fires were a
scandal even to
Rome , and St. Boniface obtained from Pope Zachary their
abolition. But probably the Yule-log in its many forms was originally lit
only in view of the cold season. Only in 1577 did it become a public ceremony
in
England ; its popularity, however, grew immense, especially
in
Provence ; in
Tuscany , Christmas is simply called ceppo (block, log --
Bonaccorsi, op. cit., p. 145, n. 2). Besides, it became connected with other
usages; in England, a tenant had the right to feed at his lord's expense as
long as a wheel, i.e. a round, of wood, given by him, would burn, the
landlord gave to a tenant a load of wood on the birth of a child; Kindsfuss
was a present given to children on the birth of a brother or sister, and even
to the farm animals on that of Christ, the universal little brother (Tiele,
op. cit., p. 95 sqq.).
Greenery. Gervase of Tilbury (thirteen
century) says that in
England
grain is exposed on Christmas night to gain
fertility from the dew which falls in response to "Rorate Cæli";
the tradition that trees and flowers blossomed on this night is first quoted
from an Arab geographer of the tenth century, and extended to
England . In a thirteenth-century French epic, candles are
seen on the flowering tree. In
England
it was Joseph of Arimathea's rod which flowered at
Glastonbury
and elsewhere; when 3 September became 14
September, in 1752, 2000 people watched to see if the Quainton thorn
(cratagus præcox) would blow on Christmas New Style; and as it did not, they
refused to keep the New Style festival. From this belief of the calends
practice of greenery decorations (forbidden by Archbishop Martin of Braga, c.
575, P. L., LXXIII -- mistletoe was bequeathed by the Druids) developed the
Christmas tree, first definitely mentioned in 1605 at Strasburg, and
introduced into France and England in 1840 only, by Princess Helena of
Mecklenburg and the Prince Consort respectively.
The mysterious visitor. Only with great
caution should the mysterious benefactor of Christmas night -- Knecht
Ruprecht, Pelzmärtel on a wooden horse, St. Martin on a white charger, St.
Nicholas and his "reformed" equivalent, Father Christmas -- be
ascribed to the stepping of a saint into the shoes of Woden, who, with his
wife Berchta, descended on the nights between 25 December and 6 January, on a
white horse to bless earth and men. Fires and blazing wheels starred the
hills, houses were adorned,
trials
suspended and
feasts celebrated (cf. Bonaccorse, op. cit., p. 151). Knecht Ruprecht, at any
rate (first found in a mystery of 1668 and condemned in 1680 as a devil) was
only a servant of the Holy Child.
Non-Catholic observances. But no doubt
aboriginal Christian nuclei attracted pagan accretions. For the calend
mumming; the extraordinary and obscene Modranicht; the cake in honour of
Mary's "afterbirth", condemned (692) at the Trullan Council, canon
79; the Tabulæ Fortunæ (food and drink offered to obtain increase, and
condemned in 743), see Tiele, op. cit., ch. viii, ix -- Tiele's data are
perhaps of greater value than his deductions -- and Ducange (op. cit., s. vv.
Cervula and Kalendæ).
In
England , Christmas was forbidden by Act of Parliament in
1644; the day was to be a fast and a market day; shops were compelled to be
open; plum puddings and mince pies condemned as heathen. The conservatives
resisted; at
Canterbury
blood was shed; but after the Restoration
Dissenters continued to call Yuletide "Fooltide".
From
The Catholic Encyclopedia, 15 vols.
(Robert Appleton Co., 1907-1912). Text in the public domain.
© 2005
Internet Encyclopedia of Religion , except where
otherwise indicated. All rights reserved.
Home
Contact
Fourth Article
Christmas
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to:
navigation ,
search
For other uses, see
Christmas (disambiguation) .
Christmas
Christmas tree in a Danish home, 2004
Also called
Christ's Mass
Winter holiday
Observed by
Christians
around the world as well as by non-Christians who observe the secular aspects
of the holiday.
Type
Christian
Significance
traditional
birthdate of
Jesus
Date
December
25
( January 7
in
Old Calendarist
Orthodox
Churches )
Observances
religious
services, gift giving, family meetings, decorating trees
Related to
Annunciation ,
Incarnation ;
Crucifixion ;
Advent , the
four weeks preceding Christmas; and the period between the day after
Thanksgiving
and the Sunday after
New Year's Day , the American holiday season
Christmas
or
Christmas Day
is an annual
Christian
and
secular
holiday
that
celebrates the birth of
Jesus
with many secular
winter festival
themes. It is traditionally
observed on
December 25 .
Eastern Orthodox Churches
celebrate it on
January 7 ,
which corresponds to
December 25
of the
Julian
calendar . These dates are merely traditional; the precise chronology of
Jesus' birth and death is still debated. Christmas has many popular aspects,
some religious and many secular, including the exchange of gifts,
Santa Claus ,
decoration and display of the
Christmas
tree , and religious ceremonies.
Global
spread of
Christianity
has led to Christmas being celebrated in
most countries around the world. The holiday has also been vastly adopted by
non-Christians as a secular winter festival, namely in
Hong Kong
and the
PRC
whereas there are small Christian populations. Examples of past winter
festivals that have influenced Christmas include the festivals of
Yule [1]
and
Saturnalia .
Many of the traditions associated with the holiday have origins in these pagan
winter celebrations.
Various
local and regional Christmas traditions are still practiced, despite the
widespread influence of American and British Christmas motifs disseminated by
film, popular literature, television, and other media.
Contents
[ hide ]
1
Etymology
2
History
2.1
Pre-Christian origins of
holiday
2.2
Christian origins of
holiday
2.3
Medieval Christmas and
related winter festivals
2.4
The Reformation and the
1800s
2.5
Modern times
3
The Nativity
4
Economics of Christmas
5
Santa Claus and other
bringers of gifts
6
Christmas Tree and other
decorations
7
Regional customs and celebrations
7.1
Social aspects and
entertainment
7.2
Christmas carol media
8
Christmas in the arts and
media
9
See also
10
References
11
External Links
Etymology
The
word
Christmas
is derived from
Middle
English
Christemasse
and from
Old English
Cristes mæsse. [2]
It is a contraction meaning " Christ's
mass ".
The
name of the holiday is sometimes shortened to
Xmas
because Roman
letter "X" resembles the
Greek
letter
Χ
(chi), an abbreviation for Christ
(Χριστός).
History
Pre-Christian origins of holiday
Christmas
has its origins in several pagan holidays. The celebration known as
Saturnalia
included the making and giving of small presents ( saturnalia et sigillaricia ).
This holiday was observed over a series of days beginning on December 17 (the
birthday of
Saturn ) and ending on December 25 (the birthday
of
Sol
Invictus , the "unconquered sun"). The combined festivals resulted
in an extended winter holiday season. Business was postponed and even slaves
feasted. There was drinking, gambling, and singing, and nudity was relatively
common. It was the "best of days," according to the poet
Catullus . [3]
During
the time in which
Christianity
was spreading throughout the
Roman
Empire , another similar religion known as
Mithraism
was
also gaining widespread acceptance. The followers of Mithraism worshipped
Mithras , a god of
Persian
origin,
who was identified with Sol Invictus.
[ citation needed ]
The
followers of Mithraism, consequently, adopted the birthday of Sol Invictus as
the birthday of Mithras. In 274 AD, due to the popularity of Mithraism, Emperor
Aurelian
designated December 25 as the festival of Sol Invictus.
Christian origins of holiday
Around
220 AD, the theologian
Tertullian
declared that Jesus died on
March 25 ,
29 , but was resurrected
three days later. Although this is not a plausible date for the
crucifixion ,
it does suggest that March 25,
nine months
before December 25th, had significance
for the church even before it was used as a basis to calculate Christmas.
Modern scholars favor a crucifixion date of
April 3 ,
33 , which was also the date
of a partial
lunar eclipse
(These are
Julian
calendar
dates. Subtract two days for a
Gregorian date .). [4]
By 240
AD, a list of significant events was being assigned to March 25, partly because
it was believed to be the date of the
vernal
equinox . These events include
creation ,
The
Fall
of
Adam and Eve , and, most relevantly,
the Incarnation . [5]
The view that the Incarnation occurred on the
same date as crucifixion is consistent with a
Jewish
belief
that prophets died at an "integral age," either an anniversary of
their birth or of their conception. [6] [7]
The
idea that December 25 is Jesus' birthday was popularized by
Sextus Julius Africanus
in
Chronographiai
(221 AD), an early reference book for Christians. This identification did not
at first inspire feasting or celebration. In 245 AD, the theologian
Origen
denounced
the idea of celebrating the birthday of Jesus "as if he were a king
pharaoh ."
Only
sinners , not
saints , celebrate
their birthdays, Origen contended.
As
Constantine ended the Christian persecution and began the persecution of
non-Christians, Christians began to debate the
nature of
Christ . The
Alexandrian school
argued that he was the divine
word made flesh (see
John 1:14 ),
while the
Antioch school
held that he was born human and infused
with the
Holy
Spirit
at the time of his
baptism
(see
Mark 1:9-11 ).
A feast celebrating Christ's birth gave the church an opportunity to promote
the intermediate view that Christ was divine from the time of his incarnation. [8]
Mary , a minor figure for early Christians,
gained prominence as the
theotokos , or god-bearer. There were Christmas celebrations
in Rome as early as 336 AD. December 25 was added to the calendar as a
feast day
in 350 AD. [8]
Medieval Christmas
and related winter festivals
Christmas
soon outgrew the Christological controversy that created it and came to
dominate the medieval calendar.
The
forty days before Christmas became the "forty days of
St. Martin ,"
now
Advent .
Former Saturnalian traditions were attached to Advent. Around the 12th century,
these traditions transferred again to the "twelve days of Christmas"
(i.e. Christmas to Epiphany). [8]
The
fortieth day after Christmas was
Candlemas .
The
Egyptian
Christmas celebration on
January 6
was adopted as
Epiphany , one of the most prominent holidays
of the year during the
Early Middle Ages . Christmas Day itself was a
relatively minor holiday, although its prominence gradually increased after
Charlemagne
was crowned on Christmas Day in 800 AD.
Northern
Europe
was the last part to Christianize, and its pagan celebrations had a
major influence on Christmas.
Scandinavians
still call Christmas
Jul
( Yule ), originally the
name of a twelve-day pre-Christian winter festival. Logs were lit to honor
Thor , the god of
thunder, hence the " Yule log ." In Germany, the equivalent holiday is
called
Mitwinternacht
(mid-winter night). There are also twelve
Rauhnächte
(harsh or wild nights). [9]
By the
High
Middle Ages , Christmas had become so prominent that chroniclers routinely
noted where various magnates "celebrated Christmas." King
Richard II of England
hosted a Christmas feast
in 1377 at which twenty-eight oxen and three hundred sheep were eaten. [8]
The "Yule boar" was a common feature of medieval Christmas feasts.
Caroling
also became popular, and was originally a group of dancers who sang. The group
was composed of a lead singer and a ring of dancers that provided the chorus.
Various writers of the time condemned caroling as lewd, largely due to
overtones reminiscent of the traditions of Saturnalia and Yule). [8]
"Misrule" — drunkenness, promiscuity, gambling — was also an
important aspect of the festival. In England, gifts were exchanged on
New
Year's Day , and there was special Christmas
ale . [8]
The Reformation and the 1800s
Santa
Claus
hands out gifts to Union soldiers during the US Civil War in
Thomas Nast 's
first Santa Claus cartoon,
Harper's
Weekly , 1863.
During
the
Reformation ,
Protestants
condemned Christmas celebration as "trappings of popery" and the
"rags of the Beast". The
Catholic Church
responded by promoting the
festival in a more religiously oriented form. When a
Puritan
parliament triumphed over the King,
Charles I of England
(1644), Christmas was
officially banned (1647). Pro-Christmas rioting broke out in several cities.
For several weeks,
Canterbury
was controlled by the rioters, who decorated
doorways with holly and shouted royalist slogans. [10]
The
Restoration
(1660) ended the ban, but Christmas
celebration was still disapproved of by the
Anglican
clergy.
By the
1820s,
sectarian
tension had eased and British writers began to worry that Christmas was dying
out. They imagined
Tudor
Christmas as a time of heartfelt celebration, and efforts were made to revive
the holiday. The book
A
Christmas Carol
(1843) by
Charles
Dickens
played a major role in reinventing Christmas as a holiday
emphasizing family, goodwill, and compassion (as opposed to communal
celebration and hedonistic excess). [11]
Father Christmas
persuades the jury of his
innocence in
The Examination and Tryal of Father Christmas
(1686) by
Josiah King
The
Puritans of
New England
disapproved of Christmas and celebration
was outlawed in
Boston
(1659-81). Meanwhile,
Virginia
and
New York
celebrated freely. Christmas fell out of favor in the U.S. after the
American Revolution , when it was considered an
"English custom". Interest was revived by several short stories by
Washington
Irving
in
The Sketch Book of Geoffrey Crayon
(1819) and by "Old Christmas" (1850) which depict harmonous
warm-hearted holiday traditions Irving claimed to have observed in England.
Although some argue that Irving invented the traditions he describes, they were
imitated by his American readers. [1]
German
immigrants and the homecomings of the
Civil War
helped promote the holiday. Christmas
was declared a federal holiday in the U.S. in 1870.
Irving
writes of Saint Nicholas "riding over the tops of the trees, in that
selfsame waggon wherein he brings his yearly presents to children." [12]
The connection between Santa Claus and Christmas was popularized by the poem
" A Visit from Saint Nicholas "
(1822) by
Clement Clarke Moore , which depicts Santa
driving a sleigh pulled by reindeer and distributing gifts to children. His
image was created by German-American cartoonist
Thomas Nast
(1840-1902), who drew a new image annually beginning in 1863. By the 1880s,
Nast's Santa had evolved into the form we now recognize. The image was
standardized by advertisers in the 1920s. [13]
Modern times
In the
midst of
World
War I , there was a
Christmas truce
between
German
and
British
troops in
France
(1914).
Soldiers on both sides spontaneously began to sing Christmas carols and stopped
fighting. The truce began on Christmas Day and continued for some time
afterward. There was even a
soccer
game between the trench lines in which
Germany's 133rd Royal Saxon Regiment is said to have bested Britain's
Seaforth Highlanders
3-2.
In
modern times, the
United States
has experienced some controversy over
the nature of Christmas, and whether it is a
religious
or
a
secular
holiday. Because the US government recognizes Christmas as an
official
holiday , some have thought that this violates
separation of church and state . This
has been brought to trial several times, including
Lynch v. Donnelly (1984)
and
Ganulin v. United States (1999) . On
December
6, 1999 , the
verdict for
Ganulin v. United States (1999) . declared that "the
establishment of Christmas Day as a legal public holiday does not violate the
Establishment Clause because it has a valid secular purpose." This
decision was appealed, and upheld by the
Supreme
Court
on
December 19, 2000 .
More
recently, some Christians have protested against what is seen as a
secularization of Christmas , leading
some to believe that the holiday is under attack from a general
secular
trend
or from persons and/or organizations with a deliberate or unconscious
anti-Christian agenda; the attack on Christmas has also been blamed on
political correctness . The evidence for this
belief lies in what some call "taking the
Christ
out of
Christmas ."
Specifically, the following items illustrate this trend. [ citation needed ]
Some businesses have forbidden their
employees to say "Merry Christmas," and tell them to say
"Happy Holidays" instead. [ citation needed ]
In many public schools in America,
what were once called
Christmas pageants
are now often called
holiday
programs
or
winter programs . [ citation needed ]
Traditionally, schoolchildren sang
Christmas
carols
at Christmas pageants; carols have increasingly been replaced
with non-religious winter songs like
Frosty the Snowman
and
White Christmas . [ citation needed ]
While
nativity
scenes
were once commonly on public display during the Christmas
season, they have become increasingly rare [ citation needed ] ,
and even the subject of lawsuits.
The Nativity
Main article:
Nativity
of Jesus
Adorazione del Bambino
(Adoration of the Child)
(1439-43), a
mural by Florentine painter
Fra Angelico .
The
Nativity
refers to the
birth
of
Jesus . According to
tradition, Jesus was born in the city of
Bethlehem
in
a
stable ,
surrounded by farm animals and
shepherds , and Jesus was born into a
manger
from the
Virgin Mary
assisted by her husband
Joseph .
Remembering
or re-creating the Nativity is one of the central ways that
Christians
celebrate Christmas. For example, the
Eastern Orthodox Church
practices the
Nativity
Fast
in anticipation of the birth of Jesus, while much of the
Western Church
celebrates
Advent . In some
Christian
churches ,
children often perform plays re-creating the events of the Nativity, or sing
some of the numerous
Christmas carols
that reference the event. Many
Christians also display a small re-creation of the Nativity known as a
Nativity
scene
in their homes, using small figurines to portray the key characters
of the event. Live Nativity scenes are also re-enacted using Human actors and
live animals to portray the event with more realism.
While
Nativity scenes traditionally include
the
Three Wise Men
(Balthassar, Melchior, and Caspar), and they are often
referred to in songs and scripture, there is little or no historical evidence
to support the tradition.
[14]
In the
U.S., decorations once commonly included Nativity scenes. This practice has led
to many lawsuits, as some say it amounts to the government endorsing a
religion. In 1984, the
US Supreme Court
ruled that a
city-owned Christmas display, even one with a Nativity scene, does not violate
the
First Amendment . [15]
Economics of Christmas
Christmas display in a Brazilian shopping mall
Christmas
is typically the largest annual economic stimulus for many nations. Sales
increase dramatically in almost all retail areas and shops introduce new
products as people purchase gifts, decorations, and supplies. In the U.S., the
Christmas shopping season
generally begins on
Black Friday , the day after
Thanksgiving ,
though many stores start selling Christmas items in October/November (and in the
UK, even September/October).
More
businesses and stores close on Christmas Day than any other day of the year. In
the
United
Kingdom , the
Christmas Day (Trading) Act 2004
prevents all large shops from trading on Christmas Day.
Most
economists
agree, however, that Christmas produces a
deadweight
loss
under
orthodox
microeconomic theory , due to the surge in
gift-giving. This loss is calculated as the difference between what the gift
giver spent on the item and what the gift receiver would have paid for the
item. It is estimated that in 2001 Christmas resulted in a $4 billion
deadweight loss in the U.S. alone. [16] [17]
Because of complicating factors, this analysis is sometimes used to discuss
possible flaws in current microeconomic theory.
In
North
America , film studios release many high-budget movies in the holiday
season, including Christmas films,
fantasy
movies or
high-tone dramas with rich production values.
Santa Claus and other bringers of gifts
Main article:
Santa Claus
Saint Nicholas
In
Western
culture , the holiday is characterized by the exchange of gifts among
friends and family members, some of the gifts being attributed to Santa Claus
(also known as
Father Christmas ,
Saint
Nicholas ,
Joulupukki ,
Kris
Kringle ,
Saint Basil
and
Father Frost ).
Father
Christmas predates the Santa Claus character, and was first recorded in the
15th century, [18]
but was associated with holiday merrymaking and drunkenness. Santa Claus is a
variation of a
Dutch
folk tale
based on the historical figure Saint Nicholas,
or
Sinterklaas , who gave gifts on the eve of his feast day of
December 6 .
He became associated with Christmas in 19th century America and was renamed
Santa Claus or Saint Nick. In Victorian Britain, Father Christmas's image was
remade to match that of Santa. The
French
equivalent of Santa,
Père Noël , evolved along similar lines, eventually
adopting the Santa image.
In
some cultures Santa Claus is accompanied by
Knecht
Ruprecht , or
Black Peter . In other versions,
elves
make the toys. His
wife is referred to as
Mrs. Claus .
The
current tradition in several
Latin
American
countries (such as
Venezuela ) holds that while Santa makes the toys, he then
gives them to the
Baby Jesus , who is the one who actually delivers them to
the children's homes. This story is meant to be a reconciliation between
traditional religious beliefs and modern day
globalization ,
most notably the iconography of Santa Claus imported from the United States.
Christmas Tree and other decorations
Main article:
Christmas
Tree
Christmas decorations at
The Myer Centre
in
Brisbane ,
Queensland ,
Australia
The
Christmas tree is often explained as a
Christianization
of the ancient
pagan
idea that the
evergreen
tree represents a celebration of the renewal of life. The phrase " Christmas
tree " is first recorded in 1835 and represents the importation of a
tradition from Germany, where such trees became popular in the late 18th
century. [18]
Christmas trees may be decorated with
lights
and
ornaments . Since the 19th century, the
poinsettia
has been associated with Christmas. Other popular holiday plants include
holly ,
mistletoe ,
red
amaryllis ,
and
Christmas cactus .
Along
with a Christmas Tree, the interior of a home may be decorated with
garlands
and
evergreen
foliage, particularly holly and mistletoe. In
Australia ,
North
and
South
America , and to a lesser extent
Europe , it is
traditional to decorate the outside of houses with lights and sometimes with
illuminated
sleighs ,
snowmen , and
other Christmas figures.
Municipalities
often sponsor decorations as well. Christmas banners may be hung from street
lights and Christmas trees placed in the town square.
Although
Christmas decorations, such as a tree, are considered secular in many parts of
the world, the
Kingdom of Saudi Arabia
bans such displays as symbols
of Christianity.
In the
Western
world , rolls of brightly-colored paper with secular or religious Christmas
motifs are manufactured for the purpose of wrapping gifts.
Regional customs and celebrations
Main article:
Christmas worldwide
Many nations distribute
stamps
each year to commemorate Christmas. Austria,
1999
Christmas
celebrations include a great number and variety of customs with either secular,
religious, or national aspects which vary from country to country:
In the
southern hemisphere , Christmas is during the
summer. This clashes with the traditional winter iconography, resulting in
oddities such as a red fur-coated Santa Claus surfing in for a turkey barbecue
on
Australia's
Bondi
Beach . New Zealanders also commonly celebrate Christmas at the beach,
coinciding with the vibrant red flowering of the coastal
Pohutukawa
or " New
Zealand
Christmas Tree".
Japan
has adopted
Santa Claus for its secular Christmas celebration, but
New
Year's Day
is a far more important holiday. While in
South Korea ,
Christmas is celebrated as an "official" holiday, and in
India
it is often
called
bada din
("the big day"). Celebrations revolve around
Santa Claus and shopping.
In
Poland , Santa Claus
( Polish :
Święty Mikołaj) gives gifts on two occasions: on the night of
December 5 (so that children find them on the morning of December 6), and on
Christmas Eve (so that children find gifts that same day). In addition to the
major observances of Christmas,
German
children also put shoes out on their window sills on
the night of December 5, and find them filled with candy and small gifts the
next morning. Santa Claus ( Hungarian : Mikulás), or
Father
Winter
( Hungarian : Télapó) also visits
Hungary
on
December 6, bringing small gifts, and is often accompanied by a black creature
called Krampusz; while on Christmas Eve (Holy Night - ( Hungarian : Szenteste)) the Little (Baby) Jesus ( Hungarian : Kisjézus or Jézuska) delivers the
presents.
In
Spain , gifts are
brought by the Magi on Epiphany (January 6), and in
Scotland ,
presents were traditionally given on
Hogmanay , which
is New Year's Eve. In recent times, both countries have also adopted gift-giving
on Christmas Eve/Christmas Day.
The
Declaration of Christmas Peace has been a tradition in
Finland
from the
Middle Ages every year, except in 1939 (due to
World War
II ). The declaration takes place in the Old Great Square of
Turku , Finland's
official Christmas City and former capital. It is broadcast on Finnish radio
and television.
Sauna
bathing has an important role in Finnish Christmas, often after the visit of
Joulupukki
on Christmas Eve.
Saint
Nicholas' Day remains the principal day for gift giving in the
Netherlands
while Christmas Day is a more religious holiday.
In
Russia ,
Grandfather
Frost
brings presents on New Year's Eve, and these are opened on the same
night. However, after the
Russian Revolution , Christmas celebration was
banned in that country from 1917 until 1992. Even today, throughout the U.S.
and Europe, several Christian denominations, notably the
Jehovah's Witnesses , Puritans, and some
fundamentalists ,
view Christmas as a pagan holiday not sanctioned by the Bible.
Social aspects and entertainment
In
many countries, businesses, schools, and communities have Christmas parties and
dances in the weeks before Christmas. Christmas
pageants
may include
a retelling of the story of the birth of Christ. Groups may visit neighborhood
homes to sing Christmas carols. Others do
volunteer
work or hold
fundraising
drives for
charities .
On
Christmas Day or Christmas Eve, a special meal of
Christmas
dishes
is usually served. In some regions, particularly in
Eastern
Europe , these family feasts are preceded by a period of
fasting . Candy
and treats are also part of Christmas celebration in many countries.
Another
tradition is for people to send
Christmas
cards
to their friends and family members. Cards are also produced with
messages such as "season's greetings" or " happy
holidays ", so as to include senders and recipients who may not
celebrate Christmas .
Christmas carol media
Gifts under a Christmas tree.
Deck the Halls
( file info ) —
play
in browser
( beta )
Deck
the Halls
Oh Holy Night
( file info ) —
play
in browser
( beta )
Oh
Holy Night
Angels We Have Heard On High
( file info ) —
play
in browser
( beta )
Angels We Have Heard On High ,
performed by Clarinet and French Horn
Problems playing the files? See
media help .
Christmas in the arts and media
"Now it is Christmas again" (1907) by Carl Larsson.
Scrooge and the Ghost of Christmas present, by John Leech. Made for Charles
Dickens's novel
A Christmas Carol
(1843).
Main articles:
Christmas in the media
and
Christmas
movies
Many
fictional Christmas stories capture the spirit of Christmas in a modern-day
fairy tale ,
often with heart-touching stories of a Christmas
miracle . Several
have become part of the Christmas tradition in their countries of origin.
Among
the most popular are
Tchaikovsky 's ballet
The
Nutcracker
and
Charles Dickens ' novel
A
Christmas Carol .
The Nutcracker
tells of a
nutcracker
that comes to life in a young
German
girl 's dream. Charles Dickens'
A Christmas Carol
is the
tale of curmudgeonly miser
Ebenezer
Scrooge . Scrooge rejects
compassion ,
philanthropy ,
and Christmas until he is visited by the ghosts of Christmas Past, Present, and
Future, who show him the consequences of his ways.
Some
Scandinavian Christmas stories are less cheery than Dickens'. In
H. C. Andersen 's
The Little Match Girl ,
a destitute little
girl walks barefoot through snow-covered streets on Christmas Eve, trying in
vain to sell her matches, and peeking in at the celebrations in the homes of
the more fortunate.
In
1881, the
Swedish
magazine
Ny
Illustrerad Tidning
published
Viktor
Rydberg 's poem
Tomten
featuring the first painting by
Jenny
Nyström
of the traditional Swedish mythical character
tomte ,
which she
turned into the friendly white-bearded figure and associated with Christmas.
Many
Christmas stories have been popularized as
movies
and
TV specials .
Since the 1980s, many video editions are sold and resold every year during the
holiday season. A notable example is the film
It's a Wonderful Life , which turns the
theme of
A Christmas Carol
on its head. Its hero,
George
Bailey , is a businessman who sacrificed his dreams to help his community. On
Christmas
Eve , a
guardian angel
finds him in despair and
prevents him from committing
suicide
by magically showing him how much he meant to the
world around him. Perhaps the most famous animated production is
A Charlie Brown Christmas
wherein
Charlie
Brown
tries to address his feelings of dissatisfaction with the holidays by
trying to find a deeper meaning in them. This special is noted for one of the
characters retelling of the first Christmas. The humorous
A
Christmas Story
(1983) in which the main character dreams of owning a
Red
Ryder BB Gun , has become a holiday classic and is even repeated for 24
hours straight starting on Christmas Eve night and going on through Christmas
Day on US cable channel
Turner Network Television
or
TBS .
A few
true stories have also become enduring Christmas tales themselves. The story
behind the Christmas carol
Silent
Night
and the story
Yes, Virginia, there is a Santa
Claus
is among the most well-known of these.
Radio
and
television
programs aggressively pursue entertainment and ratings through their
cultivation of Christmas themes. Radio stations broadcast
Christmas
carols
and
Christmas songs , including
classical music
such as the
Hallelujah
chorus
from
Handel 's
Messiah . Among other classical pieces inspired
by Christmas are the
Nutcracker Suite , adapted from Tchaikovsky's
ballet score, and
Johann Sebastian Bach 's
Christmas Oratorio
( BWV
248). Television
networks add Christmas themes to their standard programming, run traditional
holiday movies, and produce a variety of Christmas specials.
See also
Find more information on
Christmas
by
searching Wikipedia's
sister projects :
Dictionary definitions
from
Wiktionary
Textbooks
from Wikibooks
Quotations
from Wikiquote
Source texts
from Wikisource
Images and media
from Commons
News stories
from Wikinews
Learning resources
from Wikiversity
Christmas worldwide
American Christmas traditions
Biblical
Magi
Boxing
Day
Carols by Candlelight
Christmas
carol
Christmas cracker
Christmas movies
Christmas
music
Christmas shopping season
Christmas Sunday
Christmas
tree
Christmastide
Effects of Christmas on
the environment
Epiphany (Christian)
Festive
ecology
German Christmas traditions
Jólasveinar
List of Christmas dishes
Nativity
scene
Saturnalia
Snow baby
Twelfth Night (holiday)
Twelve Days of Christmas
Twelve Holy Days
Yule
References
1.
^
The Odinic Rite,
Yule
2.
^
"Christmas" ,
The Catholic Encyclopedia , 1913.
3.
^
Sempronia, Julilla, "Ancient Voices: Saturnalia ,
AncientWorlds
2004.
4.
^
Odenwald, Dr. Sten,
"Can you date the crucifixion of Jesus Christ
using astronomy?" , 1997.
5.
^
"The
Feast of the Annunciation" ,
Catholic Encyclopedia,
1998.
6.
^
Duchesne, Louis ,
Les origines du culte chrétien:
Etude sur la liturgie latine avant Charlemagne . Paris, 1889.
7.
^
Talley, Thomas J.,
Origins of the Liturgical Year . Pueblo
Publishing Company, New York, 1986.
8.
^
a
b
c
d
e
f
Murray, Alexander,
"Medieval Christmas" ,
History
Today , December 1986,
36
(12), pp. 31 - 39.
9.
^
Reichmann, Ruth,
"Christmas" .
10.
^
Durston, Chris,
"Lords of Misrule: The Puritan War on Christmas
1642-60" ,
History Today , December 1985,
35
(12) pp.
7 - 14.
11.
^
Rowell, Geoffrey,
"Dickens and the Construction of Christmas" ,
History Today,
December 1993,
43
(12), pp. 17 - 24.
12.
^
Irving, Washington,
History of New York , 1812.
13.
^
Mikkelson, Barbara and David P.,
"The
Claus That Refreshes" ,
Snopes.com,
2006.
14.
^
Culture and the Arts,
The Three Kings
15.
^
Lynch vs. Donnelly
(1984)
16.
^
"The Deadweight Loss of Christmas",
American Economic Review ,
December 1993,
83
(5)
17.
^
"Is Santa a deadweight loss?"
The
Economist
20 December
2001
18.
^
a
b
Harper, Douglas,
Christ ,
Online Etymology Dictionary,
2001.
Ganulin v. United
States
"Christmas,"
The New
Columbia Encyclopedia . New York and London, Columbia University Press
1975.
Restad, Penne L.,
Christmas in
America: A History , New York, Oxford University Press. 1995.
ISBN
0-19-509300-3
External Links
·
The
History of Christmas
·
"A History
of Christmas from the UCG"
·
Encyclopaedia
Britannica, Christmas
·
"Christmas in South
America" .
·
Christmas in India
·
Heindel,
Max ,
The Mystical Interpretation
of Christmas
1920.
ISBN
0-911274-65-0 .
·
"The Japanese Christmas museum
(Focusing on Christmas commercial culture)" .
·
Christmas Day
- Comprehensive site of
Christmas Festival.
Retrieved
from " http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Christmas "
Categories :
Articles with unsourced
statements
|
Holidays
|
Holidays in the United States
|
Holidays in Canada
|
Holidays in New Zealand
|
Christmas
|
Christmas-linked holidays
|
December observances
|
Religious festivals
|
Christian festivals
|
Secular holidays
5 th
Article
BibleTexts.com Terms
Christmas
in
the context of early Christian
teachings, before 313 A.D.
edited by Robert Nguyen Cramer
(4.12.24.1)
Abbreviations
The Christmas celebration
as we know it today had its real beginnings with
Constantine 's reinvention of the Christian
church after 313 A.D. (For details regarding
Constantine 's considerable influence on
Christian practices, teachings, and institutions, see
http://www.bibletexts.com/terms/313ad.htm .)
In his excellent article on
the origins of the Christmas celebration, Hendrik F. Stander ( Encyclopedia
of Early Christianity, Second Edition , edited by Everett Ferguson, NY:
Garland Publishing, 1998, pages 249-250):
CHRISTMAS.
From Old English "Mass of
Christ," festival on December 25, celebrating the birth of Christ. This
festival was not generally established before the end of the fourth century.
The early Christians were far more concerned with the death and resurrection of
Jesus, celebrated during Easter, than with his birth. Moreover, Origen said
that Christians should not celebrate birthdays because it was a pagan custom,
adhered to by unrighteous people, such as Pharaoh and Herod ( Comm. in Mt.
10.22)...
The true roots of what we
know as Christmas lie in a feast celebrating the baptism of Christ on January
6. The heretical Basilideans taught that the divine Christ first appeared on
earth at the baptism of Jesus and was then temporarily united with the human
Jesus. The festival on January 6 was accordingly called Epiphany
("Appearance"). The
orthodox church
regarded
Christ's birth as the real appearing of Christ upon the earth, and thus January
6 came to mark both the baptism and the nativity of Christ.
The Council of Nicaea (325)
condemned the doctrine that God himself did not become incarnate in Jesus at
birth. This Christological dogma probably caused the festival of Christ's birth
to be separated from the heretical custom of commemorating Christ's
"appearance" at baptism. The festival of the birth of Christ ... was
then transferred to December 25, to counter a pagan festival held that day in
honor of
Sol Invictus
("The Invincible Sun").
The nativity festival was
probably separated from Epiphany in
Rome
between 325 and 354. The first
evidence of the celebration of Christ's birth on December 25 comes from
Rome
in the year 336, although the older
Epiphany festival continued to exist for some time in its original form.
...The strongest
opposition, however, came from Christians in
Jerusalem , and it was not until the middle of
the sixth century that Palestinian Christians accepted the festival of
December. The Armenian
church
continues even today to
commemorate Christ's birth on January 6.
Karen B. Westerfield Tucker
( Oxford Companion to Christian Thought , edited by Adrian Hastings,
Alistair Mason, and Hugh Pyper,
Oxford : Oxford University Press, 2000)
provides a few additional details in her article on "Christmas:"
...One theory for placing
Christmas on 25 December suggests that the motivation for a Christian
observance came from the pagan birthfeast of the unconquered sun ( dies
natalis solis invicti ) which the Roman emperor Aurelian, in 274, ordered to
be held annually throughout the empire on the day of the winter solstice,
determined then to be 25 December. According to the 'apologetics' or 'history
of religions' hypothesis, the church at Rome adopted the day of pagan
festivities for its own purposes, providing a Christian alternative by
celebrating instead the birth of the true 'sun of righteousness'; the heathen
content of the festival was reinterpreted and its date retained...
The festival of Christmas
spread quickly from the 4th century onwards. It allowed for a liturgical
counterpart to the theological conclusion reached at the Council of Nicaea
which, in condemning Arianism, affirmed that Jesus Christ was the eternal and
only-begotten Son of the Father, humanly born of Mary (recognized by the
Council of Ephesus as the 'God-bearer',
Theotokos )...
So what did Christians
prior to
Constantine
think of the types of celebrations that are now associated
with Christmas? Below is a sampling from the Christian leader and theologian
Tertullian, as presented in
A Dictionary of Early Christian Beliefs: A
Reference Guide to More Than 700 Topics Discussed by the Early Church Fathers ,
edited by David W. Bercot (Peabody, MA: Hendrickson, 1998, page 342).
Addressing pagans:
On your day of gladness, we
[Christians] neither cover our doorposts with wreaths, nor intrude upon the day
with lamps. At the call of public festivity, you consider it a proper thing to
decorate your house like some new brothel. ... We are accused of a lower
sacrilege because we do not celebrate along with you the holidays of the
Caesars in a manner forbidden alike by modesty, decency, and purity. [197 A.D.,
ANF
3:44]
The Roman traitors clad
their doorposts with green and branching laurels. They smoked up their porches
with lofty and brilliant lamps. [197 A.D.,
ANF
3:44]
Addressing Christians:
What less of
a defilement
does he incur on that ground than does a
business ... that is publicly consecrated to an idol? The Minervalia are a much
Minerva's as the Saturnalia is Saturn's. Yes, it is Saturn's day, which much
necessarily be celebrated even by little slaves at the time of the Saturnalia.
Likewise, New Year's gifts must be caught at. The Septimontium must be kept.
And all the presents of Midwinter and the Feast of Dear Kinsmanship must be
exacted. The schools must be wreathed with flowers.... The same thing takes
place on an idol's birthday. Every ceremony of the devil is frequented. Who
will think that these things are benefiting to a Christian teacher? [200 A.D.,
ANF
3:66]
The Saturnalia, New Year,
Midwinter festivals, and Matronalia are frequented by us! Presents come and go!
There are New Year's gifts! Games join their noise! Banquets join their din!
The pagans are more faithful to their own sect... For, even if they had known
them, they would not have shared the Lord's Day or Pentecost with us.
For they would fear lest they would appear to be Christians.
Yet, we are not apprehensive that we might appear to be
pagans ! [200
A.D.,
ANF
3:69]
The following are the biblical texts from
the
ESV
that reference the birth of Jesus:
Mat 1:18-25 - The birth of Jesus
18
Now the birth of Jesus Christ took place in this way. When his mother Mary had
been betrothed to Joseph, before they came together she was found to be with
child from the Holy Spirit. 19 And her husband Joseph, being a just man and
unwilling to put her to shame, resolved to divorce her quietly. 20 But as he
considered these things, behold, an angel of the Lord appeared to him in a
dream, saying, "Joseph, son of David, do not fear to take Mary as your
wife, for that which is conceived in her is from the Holy Spirit. 21 She will
bear a son, and you shall call his name Jesus, for he will save his people from
their sins." 22 All this took place to fulfill what the Lord had spoken by
the prophet: 23 "Behold, the virgin shall conceive and bear a son, and
they shall call his name Immanuel" (which means, God with us). 24 When
Joseph woke from sleep, he did as the angel of the Lord commanded him: he took
his wife, 25 but knew her not until she had given birth to a son. And he called
his name Jesus.
* See
commentary at
http://www.bibletexts.com/verses/v-mat.htm#1 .
Mat 2:1-12 - The visit of the Magi from the East to the
infant Jesu s
1
Now after Jesus was born in Bethlehem of Judea in the days of Herod the king,
behold, wise men from the east came to
Jerusalem , 2 saying, "Where is he who
has been born king of the Jews?
For we saw his star when it
rose and have come to worship him."
3 When Herod the king heard
this, he was troubled, and all
Jerusalem
with him; 4 and assembling all the
chief priests and scribes of the people, he inquired of them where the Christ
was to be born. 5 They told him, "In Bethlehem of Judea, for so it is
written by the prophet: 6 "' And you, O Bethlehem, in the land of Judah,
are by no means least among the rulers of Judah; for from you shall come a
ruler who will shepherd my people Israel.'" 7 Then Herod summoned the wise
men secretly and ascertained from them what time the star had appeared. 8 And
he sent them to
Bethlehem , saying, "Go and search
diligently for the child, and when you have found him, bring me word, that I
too may come and worship him." 9 After listening to the king, they went on
their way. And behold, the star that they had seen when it rose went before
them until it came to rest over the place where the child was. 10 When they saw
the star, they rejoiced exceedingly with great joy. 11 And going into the house
they saw the child with Mary his
mother,
and they fell
down and worshiped him. Then, opening their treasures, they offered him gifts,
gold and frankincense and myrrh. 12 And being warned in a dream not to return
to Herod, they departed to their own country by another way.
* See
commentary at
http://www.bibletexts.com/verses/v-mat.htm#2 .
Luk 1:26-56 - The birth of Jesus is announced
26
In the sixth month the angel Gabriel was sent from God to a city of
Galilee
named
Nazareth , 27 to a virgin betrothed to a man
whose name was Joseph, of the house of David. And the virgin's name was Mary.
28 And he came to her and said, "Greetings, O favored one, the Lord is
with you!" 29 But she was greatly troubled at the saying, and tried to
discern what sort of greeting this might be. 30 And the angel said to her,
"Do not be afraid, Mary, for you have found favor with God. 31 And behold,
you will conceive in your womb and bear a son, and you shall call his name
Jesus. 32 He will be great and will be called the Son of the Most High. And the
Lord God will give to him the throne of his father David, 33 and he will reign
over the house of Jacob forever, and of his kingdom there will be no end."
34 And Mary said to the angel, "How will this be, since I am a
virgin?" 35 And the angel answered her, "The Holy Spirit will come
upon you, and the power of the Most High will overshadow you; therefore the
child to be born will be called holy- the Son of God. 36 And behold, your
relative
Elizabeth
in her old age has also conceived a son, and this is the
sixth month with her who was called barren. 37 For nothing will be impossible
with God." 38 And Mary said, "Behold, I am the servant of the Lord;
let it be to me according to your word." And the angel departed from her.
39 In those days Mary arose and went with haste into the hill country, to a
town in
Judah , 40 and she entered the house of
Zechariah and greeted
Elizabeth . 41 And when
Elizabeth
heard the greeting of Mary, the
baby leaped in her womb. And
Elizabeth
was filled with the Holy Spirit, 42
and she exclaimed with a loud cry, "Blessed are you among women, and
blessed is the fruit of your womb! 43 And why is this granted to me that the
mother of my Lord should come to me? 44 For behold, when the sound of your
greeting came to my ears, the baby in my womb leaped for joy. 45 And blessed is
she who believed that there would be a fulfillment of what was spoken to her
from the Lord." 46 And Mary said, "My soul magnifies the Lord, 47 and
my spirit rejoices in God my Savior, 48 for he has looked on the humble estate
of his servant. For behold, from now on all generations will call me blessed;
49 for he who is mighty has done great things for me, and holy is his name. 50
And his mercy is for those who fear him from generation to generation. 51 He
has shown strength with his arm; he has scattered the proud in the thoughts of
their hearts; 52 he has brought down the mighty from their thrones and exalted
those of humble estate; 53 he has filled the hungry with good things, and the
rich he has sent empty away. 54 He has helped his servant
Israel , in remembrance of his mercy, 55 as
he spoke to our fathers, to Abraham and to his offspring forever." 56 And
Mary remained with her about three months and returned to her home.
* See
commentary at
http://www.bibletexts.com/verses/v-luk.htm#1 .
Luk 2:1-7 - The birth of Jesus
1
In those days a decree went out from Caesar Augustus that all the world should
be registered. 2 This was the first registration when Quirinius was governor of
Syria . 3 And all went to be registered, each to his own
town. 4 And Joseph also went up from
Galilee , from the town of
Nazareth , to
Judea , to the city of
David , which is called
Bethlehem , because he was of the house and
lineage of David, 5 to be registered with Mary, his betrothed, who was with
child. 6 And while they were there, the time came for her to give birth. 7 And
she gave birth to her firstborn son and wrapped him in swaddling cloths and
laid him in a manger, because there was no place for them in the inn.
* See
commentary at
http://www.bibletexts.com/verses/v-luk.htm#2 .
Luk 2:8-20 - The visit of the shepherds to the infant
Jesu s
8
And in the same region there were shepherds out in the field, keeping watch
over their flock by night. 9 And an angel of the Lord appeared to them, and the
glory of the Lord shone around them, and they were filled with fear. 10 And the
angel said to them, "Fear not, for behold, I bring you good news of a
great joy that will be for all the people. 11 For unto you
is
born this day in the city of
David
a Savior, who is Christ the Lord.
12 And this will be a sign for you: you will find a baby wrapped in swaddling
cloths and lying in a manger." 13 And suddenly there was with the angel a
multitude of the heavenly host praising God and saying, 14 "Glory to God
in the highest, and on earth peace among those with whom he is pleased!"
15 When the angels went away from them into heaven, the shepherds said to one
another, "Let us go over to
Bethlehem
and see this thing that has
happened, which the Lord has made known to us." 16 And they went with
haste and found Mary and Joseph, and the baby lying in a manger. 17 And when
they saw it, they made known the saying that had been told them concerning this
child. 18 And all who heard it wondered at what the shepherds told them. 19 But
Mary treasured up all these things, pondering them in her heart. 20 And the
shepherds returned, glorifying and praising God for all they had heard and
seen, as it had been told them.
* See
commentary at
http://www.bibletexts.com/verses/v-luk.htm#2 .
Gal 4:3-6 - Christ Jesus born of woman
3
In the same way we also, when we were children, were enslaved to the elementary
principles of the world. 4 But when the fullness of time had come, God sent
forth his Son, born of woman, born under the law, 5 to redeem those who were
under the law, so that we might receive adoption as sons. 6 And because you are
sons, God has sent the Spirit of his Son into our hearts, crying, "Abba!
Father!"
*
See commentary at
http://www.bibletexts.com/verses/v-gal.htm#4 .
See also
http://www.bibletexts.com/sh/by-phrase.htm#christmas
Topical index
Copyright 1996-2004 Robert Nguyen
Cramer
Top of page
www.bibletexts.com
editor@bibletexts.com
ABOUTUS.  -Eph
6:12
Sbt
doesn't claim perfection
but Bible Translators and Publishers will be
accountable to Jehovah for their intentional errors ( Open
Intentional fallacy
)in Scripture (One
Example in
Rev3-14.htm
)--
and it is every true
Christians duty to let one another know what they have learned and share it
with others -- that's why Sbt was
brought forth-- Not to Judge and execute penalty --that's Jesus'
Job   2Thess1-6-9.htm
but
to bring
( Sbt gives)
You
access to both
Best Bibles
Plus
Websites with Verse by Verse
Trinitarian/Oneness
Commentaries
Plus Compare
Best non Trinitarian OnenessBibles .
some
with
built in Commentary—
Preview --CommentaryNote.htm
with the
BottomLine
The word that made Jesus God
open
Homoousion.htm
Plus
Best BibleDictionariesPLUS.htm
and
HiddenTruthsPLUS.htm
OPEN
John1oneWebsiteBeliefnet.htm
Sbt Does Not Get Into Criticisms of
Individuals or Groups or
organizations.
Unscriptual
Traditions – Is the Main Concern
Quoting
Christ
is not
Criticisms—it is a
Christian’s Duty --
Study
Ephesians
6:10-18
-
[ Verse
12 in Original Greek ]
The
Library Advocates that each person thoroughly examine their Churches
Statement
of Faith or Beliefs and agree with it before becoming a member
See C/h
STATEMENTsAboutManyChurchesBeliefsUpdated.htm
WITH LOVE FOR THE TRUTH—THE WHOLE TRUTH— AND
NOTHING BUT
THE TRUTH
–SO HELP US
ALL
Y.eH.oW.aH
in English
Jehovah
SBT1-The
TETRAGRAMMATON.htm
Testifier---- BiblePublishersAccountableToWho.htm
The Expository Library
index.htm
If
You
go to a
Congregation that Teaches all the Above ---You can feel Safe and not Sorry
about that--
SBT is only a Reference
Library—Not The Salvation
Congregation !!
Read !
Heb10-23-26.htm