¡SupereXtraordinarisimo!: April 2009
Home
About Pepe
Mailing List
Contact Me
IMPORTANT REMINDER!
This blog is a compilation of topics about Filipino - Hispanic culture (and nothing extraordinary as the title suggest). Most of the posts here are copied from other sites and are not from my own thoughts. Please visit my other blogs, you can find the links at the right side of this blog. Thank you.
Semana Santa [Holy Week] in The Philippines
Semana Santa [ Holy Week] in the Philippines
In this predominantly
Roman Catholic
nation, Holy Week, known as both
Semana Santa
or
Mahal na Araw , is considered as one of the most important religious festivals of the entire year. Many
superstitions
abound regarding this holiest of weeks, such as that wounds inflicted or received on
Good Friday
take long to heal and that amulets acquired on the said day are especially powerful.
Throughout the week, most establishments either shut down operations until Black Saturday or have later opening and earlier closing times, and (mostly local)
television
stations either stay off the air and those that sign-on air shows with more solemn or serious content, especially films and programmes with a religious theme. An example is the airing of the
Seven Last Words
on Good Friday live from churches on various local channels and films about the life and death of
Jesus . During the
Easter Triduum , usually a
public holiday , some television stations even interrupt broadcast altogether until
Black Saturday
in observance of this solemn occasion. In the Ilocos Region, a common practice is the singing of a wailing song called the Leccio. It is done as a reflection of mourning the death of Christ.
Domingo de Ramos [Palm Sunday]
At
Mass
on
Palm Sunday , Catholics carry palm fronds to be blessed by the
priest . Many
Filipinos
bring them home after the
Mass
and place them above their front doors or windows, in the belief that doing so can ward off evil spirits and avert lightning. The usual
Gospel
reading on Palm Sunday features Jesus' triumphant entry into Jerusalem, when he was welcomed by people waving palm fronds and laying their cloaks on the ground for his donkey to walk upon.
Holy Monday to Holy Wednesday [Lunes Santo a Miercoles Santo]
Holy Monday
marks the beginning of the Pabasa (literally, "reading") or the
Pasyon , the marathon chanting of the poetic prayer-story of
Jesus ' life,
Passion , and death, which continues day and night, for as long as two straight days.
Jueves Santo [Holy Thursday]
Come
Holy Thursday
or Jueves Santo, a popular tradition is "Church Visit", which involves visiting a church or several churches at which the faithful would pray the devotion known as the
Stations of the Cross . Celebrated on this day is the last Mass before
Easter , usually including a reenactment of the
Washing of the Feet
of the
Apostles ; this Mass is followed by the procession of the
Blessed Sacrament
before it is taken to the
Altar of Repose .
TV
and
Radio
networks in the nation have formally either sign-off until
Easter Sunday
or started restricting broadcasts related to
religion , especially to the Holy Week.
Viernes Santo [Good Friday]
Good Friday
or Viernes santo, a
public holiday
in the Philippines, is commemorated with solemn street
processions , the
Way of the Cross , the commemoration of Jesus'
Seven last words
and a Passion play called the
Senaculo . In some communities (most famously in the province of
Pampanga ), the processions include devotees who self- flagellate
and sometimes even
have themselves nailed to crosses
as expressions of penance or in fulfillment of a vow accomplished in thanksgiving or exchange for a granted request or prayer. After three o'clock in the afternoon of Good Friday (the time at which Jesus is traditionally believed to have died), noise is discouraged, bathing is proscribed and the faithful are urged to keep a solemn and prayerful disposition. Towards late afternoon and evening there is the procession of the dead Christ. The figure of the corpse of Jesus is taken in solemn procession and borne on a decorated
hearse , after which it is venerated by the faithful. Some even accord the image with the proper funeral rites such as
laying the body in state
or, in some instances, by smoking the seated corpse of Jesus over a fire in accordance with local, pre-hispanic funerary customs. Such a procession may involve a various number of other saints, and tradition dictates that the last image in the line is the
Sorrowful Virgin .
Sabado de Gloria [Black Saturday]
Black Saturday , as it is called in the country, is traditionally observed with silence and solemnity. Preparations are made for the
Easter Vigil
to be celebrated that evening.
Domingo de Pascua [Easter Sunday]
Easter
morning is marked with joyous celebration, the first being the dawn ceremony called the Salubong ("meeting"), wherein statues of the
Resurrected Christ
and the
Virgin Mary , along with other saints such as
St. Peter
and
Mary Magdalene , are brought in procession together to meet, imagining the first reunion of Jesus and his mother Mary after the
Resurrection . The statue of the Virgin Mary is
veiled
in
black , showing her state of bereavement. A girl dressed as an
angel , positioned on a specially constructed high platform/scaffold or suspended in mid-air, sings the
Regina Coeli
and then dramatically pulls the veil off of the image, signifying the end of her grieving. This is followed by pealing
bells
and
fireworks , and the joyous
Easter Mass .
Senaculo Senaculo or the Passion play is a
dramatic
presentation
depicting the
Passion
of
Christ : the
trial ,
suffering
and
death
of
Jesus Christ . It is a traditional part of
Lent
in several
Christian
denominations, particularly in
Catholic
tradition.
The
Philippines , being one of two predominantly Christian nations in the whole of Asia ( East Timor
being the other), has Passion plays called Senakulo, named after the
Upper room , or Cenacle. Companies perform the Senakulo during Holy Week. Also, there are actual crucifixions done by people outside of Passion plays to fulfill a panata (for a request or prayer granted), in Barangay
San Pedro Cutud ,
City of San Fernando ,
Pampanga
being a popular place to see this.
Penitensya
This is an act of self flagellation being done during the Holy Week.
About:
Crucufixions in the Philippines
Source: Wikipedia and You Tube
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share to Pinterest
Labels:
Cuaresma ,
Holy week ,
Penitencia ,
Penitensya ,
Semana Santa ,
Senaculo ,
Senakulo
Newer Posts
Older Posts
Home
Subscribe to:
Posts (Atom)
The Zambo Top Dogz (Chavacano de Zamboanga Rap/Hip hop Band)
Create a
MySpace Music
Playlist
at
MixPod.com
Search This Site
Loading...
Share My Blog
Share
|
Translator/Traductor
Isang Litrong Liwanag (A Liter Of Light)
Click picture to help!
Click picture to sign petition!
1M Filipinos For RH Bill
CLICK PICTURE TO JOIN!
The Philippine Map
Click Map!
Camera Ni Cabrera Promote Your Page Too
Please Support Camera Ni Cabrera
Networked Blogs
Follow this blog
La Flor de La Isabela
http://www.tabacaleracigars.com.ph/
Followers
My Other Blogs
X - SPOT
(DonPepe1972)
A Very Sad Day
-
Last night I learned from a dear friend that our former classmate and close
friend William Loyola has died. A few days before he passed away, he had a
str...
1 month ago
CAMERA NI CABRERA
"Kalapaters"
-
A pigeon perched on a metal bar that supports a business sign. Taken at
Telemoney in Balad on August 3, 2015 using iPod Touch.
*O my dove, in the cleft...
3 months ago
Snatched From The Pit
"Feeding the Homeless is Politically Incorrect"
-
*"Woe to those who call evil good and good evil, who put darkness for
light, and light for darkness...~ Isaiah 5:20*
At home and in school, children are ...
11 months ago
Federico Aguilar Alcuaz
Click picture to know the artist!
Filipino Masters
Benedicto Reyes Cabrera
Cesar Torrente Legaspi
Damian Domingo
Federico Aguilar Alcuaz
Felix Resurreccion Hidalgo
Fernando Amorsolo
Fernando Zobel
Juan Luna
Vicente Manansala
Favorite Sites
Artes de Las Filipinas
Asociacion Academias de la Lengua Española
Ayala Museum
BOTIJA
Casino Español de Manila
Club Filipino Hispano
Cultural Center Of The Philippines
Diario De Manila
Embassy Of Spain In Manila
Experience Philippines
Filipinas Heritage Library
Filipinotown - U.S.A.
Hospicio de San Jose
Instituto Cervantes de Manila
INTRAMUROS
Josephine Restaurant
José Rizal
La Flor de La Isabela
Lopez Memorial Museum
Metropolitan Museum Of Manila
National Commission For Culture And The Arts
National Museum Of The Philippines
Proyectos Saluda
StuartXchange
The Real Mexico
The Spanish Blog
Things Asian
My Blog List
ALAS FILIPINAS
Día de la Hispanidad 2015
2 weeks ago
Ang Bagong Filipino
Adiós! Hasta luego!
1 year ago
Avenida 12785
La Verdad de Los Oprimidos
3 years ago
Barcelona Photoblog
The Best Spanish Restaurants in Hawaii
1 week ago
Blog de Semi
Vigilando Masca
3 years ago
Comunidad Tulay
Problemas
3 years ago
CUBA EN FOTOS
Cuba: Laguna La Redonda ( + fotos )
1 week ago
El Blog de Manolo Pérez
Apagón del facebook
2 years ago
FILIPINO eSCRIBBLES
The AlDub phenomenon, and why Filipinos have gone crazy over it
2 weeks ago
Flamenco en Filipinas
(122) PROMOVEDOR YLONGO DEL BAILE ESPAÑOL
4 months ago
Habla Chabacano
Shock and sorrow in Cavite City
4 years ago
Herencia Española
Historias con herencia primer libro de aventuras sobre la historia de españa
2 years ago
La Mierda La Sole
La Nueva Liga Filipina
Las Islas Filipinas World
Banaue Rice Terraces
3 years ago
Lopez Museum and Library
Manila Shopaholic
2015 Heatwave Summer Bazaar and End of Summer Clearance Sale
7 months ago
Manolo Pérez en Filipinas
Mexico Vacation Travels Pictures, Reviews, & Deals
Where to Shop in Mexico: El Mercadito Frances
3 years ago
Mundo Ocio
Mundo Ocio-ll
Strategies for Getting a Very good Spanish student Notebook for your children!
1 year ago
NOS NECESITAN
Maltrato animal!!!!Como puede suceder esto..
2 days ago
Philippine Travel Journal | Ivan About Town
Updates from the Agusan Marsh Indigenous Cultural Tourism Program in Agusan del Sur
5 months ago
Semanario de Filipinas
Despedida y Cierre
2 years ago
Señor Enrique: Wish You Were Here
Moving on forward
3 years ago
The Spanish Blog
Vials & Ampules
Walk This Way
MY MIDDLE EAST CRISIS
3 years ago
With one's past...
Transplanted Bahay-na-Batos in Las Casas of Acuzar
1 week ago
¡SOY NEGRENSE!
Black Nazarene: The Folly Of Idol Worship
9 months ago
Who's There?
Feedjit Live Blog Stats
Popular Posts
Cariñosa, The National Dance Of The Philippines
Cariñosa, the national dance of the Philippines, is a romantic, flirtatious folk dance set to a waltz-like 3/4 rhythm. A couple expresses th...
In Focus: Isabel Preysler
Maria Isabel Preysler Arrastia, better known as Isabel Preysler, is a Filipinojornalist, model, socialite and a former TV host who lives an...
Nueva Valencia, Philippines
Nueva Valencia  is a 4th class municipality in the province of  Guimaras , Philippines. According to the 2000 census, it has a population ...
The Philippine Peso (Currency)
Countries where the Peso is being use. (Argentina, Colombia, Chile, Cuba, Dominican Republic, Mexico, The Philippines, Uruguay)
The word...
Philippine National Anthem:
'Lupang Hinirang'
Lupang Hinirang is the national anthem of the Philippines. Its music was composed in 1898 by Julian Felipe , with lyrics in Spanish adapted...
In Focus: Juvenal Sanso , A Spanish - Filipino Painter
Juvenal Sanso
was born in Reus, Catalonia, Spain in 1929, but moved to Manila five years later, where his family established a wrought-iro...
In Focus: Paquito Diaz
Francisco Bustillos Diaz, who is better known by his screen name Paquito Diaz (born May 28, 1937 in Pampanga, Philippines), is a veteran Fi...
Mexicans of Filipino descent
The Mexican Flag
Mexicans of Filipino descent refers to Mexican
citizens who are descendants of Filipino
origin. There are currently 200...
In Focus: Fernando Zobel de Ayala y Montojo
Fernando Zóbel de Ayala y Montojo  (August 27, 1924 – June 2, 1984), also known as Fernando Zóbel y Montojo, Fernando M. Zóbel and sometime...
In Focus: Dayanara Torres, The Dancing Queen Of The Philippines
Dayanara Torres Delgado (born October 28, 1974) is a Puerto Rican actress, singer, model, and former Miss Universe.
Torres was discovered ...
Hit Counter
blog counter
Pageviews past week
PILITA CORRALES, JOSH SANTANA & GARY VALENCIANO
Music
Playlist
at
MixPod.com
The Philippine Islands/ Las Islas Filipinas
Awesome Inc. template. Template images by
IntergalacticDesignStudio . Powered by
Blogger .