Byzantine Empire - Familypedia - Wikia
Wikia
Skip to Content
Skip to Wiki Navigation
Skip to Site Navigation
Comics
TV
Movies
Music
Books
Games
Lifestyle
#WHAT’S HOT
Enter our Empire fashion contest this month!
Create the Ultimate Anime Feast
Pumpkin Spice Lattés are Back
#PREMIERE PARTY MENUS
Bob’s Burgers Premiere Party Menu
Pan Drinks & Desserts Menu
Recipes Inspired by Empire
#PARENT PAGES
Games
Books
Comics
MOBILE APPS
Nerf
Creepy Pasta
LEGO
More Lifestyle
Search this wikia
Search all of Wikia
Sign In
Register
Username
Password
Forgot your password?
Stay logged in
Or
Connect
Start a wikia
Familypedia
Familypedia Navigation
On the Wiki
Wiki Activity
Random page
Videos
Photos
Create article for person
Advanced form (rarely needed)
Help: Creating articles
Semi-manual method
Indexes
Surnames
People by decade
Birth decade
Death decade
Birth country
Death country
Help
Concepts (semi-automate!)
Forums, blogs
Blog posts
External blog
Portal
Float or discuss ideas and tips
Watercooler
Le Bistro (Français)
Watercooler (Nederlandse)
Seek or give help
Contribute
Edit this Page
Add a Video
Add a Photo
Add a Page
Wiki Activity
Watchlist
Random page
Recent changes
Byzantine Empire
192,925 pages on
this wiki
Edit
Classic editor
History
Talk 0
“Byzantine” redirects here. For other uses, see
Byzantine (disambiguation) .
Roman Empire
Βασιλεία Ῥωμαίων
330–1453
Flag of the late Empire²
Imperial Emblem (under the Palaiologoi)
Byzantine Empire at its greatest extent c. 550. Territories in purple reconquered during reign of
Justinian the Great
Capital
Constantinople (330–1204 and 1261–1453)
The capital of the Empire of Nicaea, the empire after the Fourth Crusade, was at Nicaea, Turkey, present day Izmit.
Languages
Latin
until
7th century ,
Greek
thereafter
Religion
Christianity: </br> Eastern Orthodox Church
Government
Monarchy
Emperor
-
306–337
Constantine the Great
-  1449–1453
Constantine XI
Historical era
Middle Ages
-
Foundation
of
Constantinople
May 11 ,
330
330
-  East-West Schism
1054
-  Fall of Constantinople to the
Fourth Crusade
1204
-  Reconquest of Constantinople
1261
-
Fall of Constantinople
May 29 ,
1453
1453
Area
-
peak
4,500,000 km²
(1,737,460 sq mi)
Population
-
4th century est.
34,000,000³
Currency
Solidus ,
Hyperpyron
¹ Establishment date traditionally considered to be the re-founding of Constantinople as a capital of the Roman Empire although other dates are often used ² O. Neubecker,
Heraldry - Sources, Symbols and Meaning , 106 ³ See
this table of population figures
provided by the History Department of
Tulane University . The numbers are based on estimates made by J.C. Russell in "Late Ancient and Medieval Population," published in the
Transactions of the American Philosophical Society
(1958), ASIN B000IU7OZQ.
The
Byzantine Empire
or
Byzantium
is the term conventionally used since the 19th century to describe the
Greek -speaking
Roman Empire
of the
Middle Ages , centered on its capital of
Constantinople . The Empire is also known as the
Eastern Roman Empire , although this name is more commonly used when referring to the time before the
fall of the Western Roman Empire . During much of its history it was known to many of its
Western
contemporaries as the
Empire of the Greeks
because of the dominance of
Greek language , culture and population. [1]
To its inhabitants, the Empire was simply the
Roman Empire
( Greek :
Βασιλεία Ῥωμαίων ) and its emperors continued the unbroken succession of
Roman emperors . In the
Islamic
world it was known primarily as
روم ‎ ( Rûm , land of the "Romans").
There is no consensus on exactly when the Byzantine period of Roman history began. Many consider Emperor
Constantine I
(reigned AD 306–337) to be the first " Byzantine Emperor ". It was he who moved the imperial capital in 330 from
Rome
to
Byzantium , refounded as Constantinople, or Nova Roma (" New Rome ").
Some date the beginnings of the Empire to the reign of
Theodosius I
(379–395) and
Christianity 's official supplanting of the
pagan
Roman religion , or following his death in 395, when the political division between East and West became permanent. Others place it yet later in 476, when
Romulus Augustulus , traditionally considered the last western Emperor, was deposed, thus leaving sole imperial authority with the emperor in the
Greek East . Others point to the reorganization of the empire in the time of
Heraclius
(ca. 620) when Latin titles and usages were officially replaced with Greek versions.
In any case, the changeover was gradual and by 330, when Constantine inaugurated his new capital, the process of hellenization and increasing
Christianization
was already under way. The Empire is generally considered to have ended after the
fall of Constantinople
to the
Ottoman Turks
in 1453, although Greek rule continued over areas of the Empire's territory for several more years, until the fall of
Mystras
in 1460,
Trebizond
in 1461, and
Monemvasia
in 1471.
Contents [ show ]
History of the name "Byzantine" Edit
For more details on this topic, see
Names of the Greeks .
Byzantine Empire Timeline
667 BC
The ancient city of
Byzantium
(the future
Constantinople
and
Istanbul ) is founded, according to legend, by
Megarian
colonists.
27 BC
Establishment of the
Roman Empire .
c. 235 – 284
The " crisis of the 3rd century ".
292
The reforms of
Diocletian
("The
Tetrarchy ")
330
Constantine
makes Byzantium into his
capital , which is renamed "Constantinople" ( The City of Constantine ). It would remain the capital of the Byzantine Empire, with a half-century exception, for over a thousand years.
395
The Empire is permanently split into eastern and
western
halves, following on the death of
Theodosius I .
527
Justinian I
is
crowned
emperor.
April 7, 529
The
Codex Justinianus
is promulgated.
532–537
Emperor Justinian builds the
church
of
Hagia Sophia
533–554
Justinian's generals reconquer
North Africa
and
Italy
from the
Vandals
and the
Ostrogoths .
568
The
Lombard
invasion results in the loss of most of Italy.
634–641
The
Arab
armies
conquer
the
Levant
and
Egypt .
In the following decades, they take most of North Africa (and later conquer
Sicily
as well).
697
The Byzantine city of
Carthage
in North Africa (capital of the
Exarchate of Africa ) falls to the
Arab
invasion.
730–787 and 813–843
The adoption of
Iconoclasm
by the emperors results in the loss of most of the Empire's remaining Italian territories, aside from some of the territories of the
Mezzogiorno .
843–1025
The
Macedonian dynasty
is established and the leads the Empire to a military, cultural and territorial revival. Byzantine
scholars
record and preserve many of the remaining
ancient Greek
and Roman texts.
920–1042
The Byzantine Empire deals a string of defeats upon the Arab border emirates and the
Abassid
and
Fatimid
Caliphates, reconquering parts of Armenia, Mesopotamia, Syria and Palestine.
1002–1018
Emperor
Basil II
campaigns annually against the
Bulgars , with the object of annihilating the Bulgar state.
1014
The Bulgarian army is completely defeated at the
Battle of Kleidion
1018
Bulgaria surrenders and is annexed to the empire. The whole of the
Balkans
is incorporated into the Byzantine Empire, with the
Danube
restored as the imperial frontier to the north.
1025
With the death of Basil II, the zenith of the Empire's power is passed and the long decline of the Byzantine Empire begins.
1054
The
Great Schism
(split between Church in Rome and the Church in Constantinople).
1071
Emperor
Romanos IV
is defeated by the
Seljuk Turks
at the
Battle of Manzikert . The subsequent civil wars result in the loss of most of
Asia Minor
to the Turks. In the same year, the last Byzantine outpost in Italy,
Bari , is conquered by the
Normans .
1081
The
Komnenos
dynasty is established by
Alexios I
and Byzantium becomes involved in the
Crusades .
Economic
prosperity generates new
wealth ;
literature
and the
arts
reach new heights. In
Anatolia , the
Turks
become established.
1091
The Imperial armies crush the
Pechenegs
at the
Battle of Levounion .
1097
The recapture of
Nicaea
from the Turks by the Byzantine armies and the
First Crusade .
1097-1176
The Byzantine armies
recapture
the coasts of
Asia Minor
from the Turks, and push east towards central
Anatolia . The
Crusader
Principality of Antioch
becomes a Byzantine
protectorate .
1122
The Byzantines defeat the Pechenegs at the
Battle of Beroia .
1167
The Byzantine armies win a decisive victory over the
Hungarians
at the
Battle of Sirmium . Hungary subsequently becomes a Byzantine
client state .
1176;
Byzantine-Seljuk Wars :
Manuel I Komnenos
is defeated at the
Battle of Myriokephalon , the attempts to capture
Konya , the capital of the
Seljuk Turks , are abandoned after the destruction of his
siege
equipment. Within a year Manuel recovers the situation
status quo ante bellum .
1180
With the death of Manuel I Komnenos, the decline of the Empire recommences.
1185
A successful rebellion is organized in Bulgaria, which
recovers its independence , and other lands are lost in the Balkans.
1204
Constantinople is conquered by
Fourth Crusade . The Empire fragments, a
Latin Empire
and a series of
Latin states
are established, while the
Byzantine Greeks
establish separate successor states ( Epirus ,
Nicaea
and
Trebizond ).
1261
Constantinople is reconquered by the
Nicaean emperor
Michael VIII Palaiologos , who restores the Byzantine Empire.
1326
The city of
Prusa
in Asia Minor falls to the
Ottoman Turks .
1331
The city of
Nicaea , capital of the Empire only 100 years previously, falls to the
Ottoman Turks .
1341–1347
A
prolonged civil war
and the advent of the
Black Death
cripple what remains of the Empire, which loses most of its territories to the
Serbian Empire
and the rising
Ottoman emirate .
1453
The
Ottoman Turks
conquer Constantinople , and with the death of
Constantine XI Palaiologos , the Byzantine Empire comes to an end, marking final destruction of the Roman Empire.
1460–1461
The last surviving Byzantine outposts, the
Despotate of the Morea
and the
Empire of Trebizond , fall to the Ottomans.
The term '' Byzantine Empire''
is an invention of historians and was never used during the Empire's lifetime. The Empire's name in Greek was
Basileia tōn Rōmaiōn
or just
Rōmania
( Greek :
Βασιλεία Ρωμαίων —a translation of the Latin name of the Roman Empire),
Imperium Romanorum
( Latin :
Imperium Romanum ). The description of the Empire as "Byzantine" began in
Western Europe
in 1557, when
German
historian
Hieronymus Wolf
published his work
Corpus Historiæ By­zantinæ , a collection of Byzantine sources. The publication in 1648 of the
Byzantine du Louvre
( Corpus Scriptorum Historiæ Byzantinæ ), and in 1680 of
Du Cange 's
Historia Byzantina
further popularized the use of
Byzantine
among French authors, such as
Montesquieu . [2]
Before this, the Empire was described by Western Europeans as
Imperium Graecorum
(Empire of the Greeks)—Byzantine claims to Roman inheritance had been actively contested from at least the time of the coronation of
Charlemagne
as
Imperator Augustus
by
Pope Leo III
in 800. Whenever the
Popes
or the rulers of the West wanted to make use of the name
Roman
to refer to the Byzantine emperors, they preferred the term
Imperator Romæorum
instead of
Imperator Romanorum , a title reserved only for Charlemagne and his successors. [3]
Origin Edit
Partition of the Roman Empire Edit
Map of the Roman Empire ca. 395, showing the dioceses and praetorian prefectures of
Gaul ,
Italy ,
Illyricum
and Oriens (east), roughly analogous to the four Tetrarchs' zones of influence after Diocletian's reforms.
During the 3rd century, three crises threatened the Roman Empire: external invasions, internal civil wars and an economy riddled with weaknesses and problems. [4]
The city of Rome gradually became less important as an administrative centre. The
crisis of the 3rd century
displayed the defects of the heterogeneous system of government that
Augustus
had established to administer his immense dominion. His successors had introduced some modifications, but events made it clearer that a new, more centralised and more uniform system was required. [5]
Diocletian
was responsible for creating a new administrative system (the
tetrarchy ). [5]
He associated himself with a co-emperor, or
Augustus . Each Augustus then adopted a young colleague, or
Caesar , to share in the rule and eventually to succeed the senior partner. After the abdication of Diocletian and
Maximian
the tetrachy collapsed, and
Constantine I
replaced it with the dynastic principle of hereditary succession. [6]
Constantine I and his successors Edit
File:Constantine's baptism.jpg
Constantine moved the seat of the Empire, and introduced important changes into its civil and religious constitution. [8]
And indeed Constantine's city flourished mightily throughout the Middle Ages.
J. B. Bury
asserts that "the foundation of Constantinople [...] inaugurated a permanent division between the Eastern and Western, the Greek and the Latin, halves of the Empire—a division to which events had already pointed—and affected decisively the whole subsequent
history of Europe ." [5]
Constantine built upon the administrative reforms introduced by Diocletian. [9]
He stabilized the coinage (the gold
solidus
that he introduced became a highly prized and stable currency [10] ), and made changes to the structure of the army. To divide administrative responsibilities, Constantine replaced the single
praetorian prefect , who had traditionally exercised both military and civil functions, with regional prefects enjoying civil authority alone. In the course of the 4th century, four great sections emerged from these Constantinian beginnings, and the practice of separating civil from military authority persisted until the 7th century. [11]
Under Constantine,
Christianity
did not become the exclusive religion of the state, but enjoyed imperial preference, since
the Emperor supported it with generous privileges : clerics were exempted from personal services and taxation, Christians were preferred for administrative posts, and bishops were entrusted with judicial responsibilities. [12]
Constantine established the principle that emperors should not settle questions of doctrine, but should summon
general ecclesiastical councils
for that purpose. The
Synod of Arles
was convened by Constantine, and the
First Council of Nicaea
showcased his claim to be head of the Church. [13]
The state of the empire in 395 may be described in terms of the outcome of Constantine's work. The dynastic principle was established so firmly that the emperor who died in that year,
Theodosius I , could bequeath the imperial office jointly to his sons:
Arcadius
in the East and
Honorius
in the West. Theodosius was the last emperor to rule over the full extent of the empire in both its halves. [14]
Early history Edit
Leo I
of the Byzantine Empire (401–474, reigned 457–474).
The Eastern Empire was largely spared the difficulties faced by the West in the third and fourth centuries, due in part to a more firmly established urban culture and greater financial resources, which allowed it to placate invaders with
tribute
and pay barbarian
mercenaries . Throughout the fifth century, various invading armies overran the Western Empire but spared the east.
Theodosius II
further fortified
the walls of Constantinople , leaving the city impenetrable to attacks; they were not breached until 1204. To fend off the
Huns
of
Attila , Theodosius gave them subsidies (purportedly 300 kg (700 lb) of gold). [15]
Moreover, he favored merchants living in Constantinople who traded with the barbarians.
His successor,
Marcian , refused to continue to pay this exorbitant sum. However, Attila had already diverted his attention to the Western Roman Empire. After he died in 453, his empire collapsed and Constantinople initiated a profitable relationship with the remaining Huns, who would eventually fight as mercenaries in Byzantine armies.
After the fall of Attila, the true chief in Constantinople was the
Alan
general
Aspar .
Leo I
managed to free himself from the influence of the barbarian chief by supporting the rise of the
Isaurians , a semi- barbarian
tribe living in southern
Anatolia . Aspar and his son Ardabur were murdered in a riot in 471, and henceforth, Constantinople was freed from the influence of barbarian leaders for centuries.
Leo was also the first emperor to receive the crown not from a military leader, as was the Roman tradition, but from the
Patriarch of Constantinople , representing the ecclesiastical hierarchy. This change became permanent, and in the Middle Ages the religious characteristic of the coronation completely supplanted the old military form. In 468, Leo unsuccessfully attempted to reconquer North Africa from the Vandals. By that time, the Western Roman Empire was restricted to Italy and the lands south of the Danube as far as the Balkans (Britain had been abandoned and was slowly being conquered by the
Angles
and
Saxons , Spain had been overrun by the
Visigoths
and
Suebi , the
Vandals
had taken Africa, and
Gaul
was contested by the
Franks , Burgundians, Bretons, Visigoths and some Roman remnants).
In 466, as a condition of his Isaurian alliance, Leo married his daughter Ariadne to the Isaurian Tarasicodissa, who took the name
Zeno . When Leo died in 474, Zeno and Ariadne's younger son succeeded to the throne as
Leo II , with Zeno acting as regent. When Leo II died later that year, Zeno became emperor. The end of the Western Empire is sometimes dated to 476, early in Zeno's reign, when the barbarian general
Odoacer
deposed the titular Western Emperor
Romulus Augustus , but declined to replace him with another puppet.
Eastern Roman Empire, c. AD 480 .
To recover Italy, Zeno could only negotiate with the
Ostrogoths
of
Theodoric , who had settled in
Moesia . He sent the barbarian king to Italy as
magister militum per Italiam
("commander in chief for Italy"). After the fall of Odoacer in 493, Theodoric, who had lived in Constantinople during his youth, ruled Italy on his own, maintaining a merely formal obedience to Zeno. He was the most powerful Germanic king of that age, but his successors were greatly inferior and their Italian kingdom started to decline in the 530s.
In 475, Zeno was deposed by
Basiliscus , the general who led Leo I's 468 invasion of North Africa, but he recovered the throne twenty months later. However, he faced a new threat from another Isaurian,
Leontius , who was also elected rival emperor. Isaurian prominence ended when an aged civil officer of Roman origin,
Anastasius I , became emperor in 491 and after a long war defeated them in 498. Anastasius revealed himself to be an energetic reformer and an able administrator. He perfected Constantine I's coinage system by definitively setting the weight of the copper
follis , the coin used in most everyday transactions. He also reformed the tax system, and permanently abolished the hated
chrysargyron
tax. The State Treasury contained the enormous sum of 320,000 pounds of gold when he died.
Justinian I and his successors Edit
Justinian depicted on one of the famous mosaics of the
Basilica of San Vitale ,
Ravenna .
See also:
Justinian I
Justinian I, who assumed the throne in 527, oversaw a period of Byzantine expansion into former Roman territories. Justinian, the son of an
Illyrian
peasant, may already have exerted effective control during the reign of his uncle,
Justin I
(518–527). [16]
His reign opened with external
warfare . From
Lazica
to the Arabian Desert, the Persian frontier blazed with action in a series of campaigns. In 532, attempting to secure his eastern frontier, Justinian signed a peace treaty with
Khosrau I of Persia
agreeing to pay a large annual tribute to the
Sassinids . In the same year, Justinian survived a revolt in Constantinople (the
Nika riots ) which ended with the death of (allegedly) thirty thousand rioters. This victory solidified Justinian's power. [17]
Pope Agapetus I
was sent to Constantinople by the Ostrogothic king
Theodahad , but failed in his mission to sign a peace with Justinian. However, he succeeded in having the
Monophysite
Patriarch Anthimus I of Constantinople
denounced, despite
Empress Theodora 's support.
The western conquests began in 533, as Justinian sent his general
Belisarius
to reclaim the former province of
North Africa
from the
Vandals
with a small army of about 15,000 men. Success came with surprising ease, but it was not until 548 that the major local independent tribes were subdued. [17]
In
Ostrogothic
Italy, the deaths of
Theodoric the Great , his nephew and heir
Athalaric , and his daughter
Amalasuntha
had left her murderer
Theodahad
on the throne despite his weakened authority. In 535, a small Byzantine expedition sent to
Sicily
met with easy success, but the Goths soon stiffened their resistance, and victory did not come until 540, when Belisarius captured
Ravenna , after successful sieges of
Naples
and Rome. [18]
Near East in 565AD, showing the Eastern Roman (Byzantine) Empire at its largest extent.
Nevertheless, the Ostrogoths were soon reunited under the command of
Totila
and captured Rome on
December 17 ,
546 ; Belisarius was eventually recalled by Justinian in early 549. [19]
The arrival of the Armenian
eunuch
Narses
in Italy (late 551) with an army of some 35,000 men marked another shift in Gothic fortunes. Totila was defeated and died at the
Battle of Busta Gallorum . His successor,
Teias , was likewise defeated at the
Battle of Mons Lactarius
(October 552). Despite continuing resistance from a few Goth garrisons and two subsequent invasions by the
Franks
and
Alamanni , the war for the Italian peninsula was at an end. [20]
In 551, a noble of
Visigothic
Hispania ,
Athanagild , sought Justinian's help in a rebellion against the king, and the emperor dispatched a force under Liberius, who, although elderly, proved himself a successful military commander. The Byzantine empire held on to a small slice of the
Spanish
coast until the reign of
Heraclius . [21]
Part of
a series
on the
History of
Greece
Greek Bronze Age
Helladic civilization
Cycladic civilization
Minoan civilization
Mycenaean civilization
Ancient Greece
Greek Dark Ages
Archaic Greece
Classical Greece
Hellenistic Greece
Roman Greece
Medieval Greece
Byzantine Greece
Frankish and Latin states
Ottoman Greece
Modern Greece
War of Independence
Kingdom of Greece
Second Hellenic Republic
4th of August Regime
Axis occupation
Civil War
Military Junta
Third Hellenic Republic
History by topic
Art   ·
Constitution   ·
Economy   ·
Military   ·
Names
Greece portal
v   •   d   •   e
In the east,
Roman-Persian Wars
continued until 561 when Justinian's and Khusro's envoys agreed on a 50-year peace. By the mid-550s, Justinian had won victories in most theatres of operation, with the notable exception of the
Balkans , which were subjected to repeated incursions from the
Slavs . In 559, the Empire faced a great invasion of
Kutrigurs
and
Sclaveni . Justinian called Belisarius out of retirement, but once the immediate danger was over, the emperor took charge himself. The news that Justinian was reinforcing his Danube fleet made the Kutrigurs anxious, and they agreed to a treaty which gave them a subsidy and safe passage back across the river. [17]
Theodora
(here with her retinue, mosaic from
Basilica of San Vitale , Ravenna), Justinian's influential wife, was a former
mime actress , whose earlier life is vividly described by
Procopius
in
Secret History . [22]
Justinian became universally famous because of his legislative work, remarkable for its sweeping character. [23]
In 529 a ten-man commission chaired by
John the Cappadocian
revised the ancient
Roman legal code , creating the new
Corpus Juris Civilis . In the
Pandects , completed under
Tribonian 's direction in 533, order and system were found in the contradictory rulings of the great Roman jurists, and a textbook, the
Institutiones , was issued to facilitate instruction in the law schools. The fourth book, the
Novellae , consisted of collections of imperial edicts promulgated between 534 and 565. Because of his ecclesiastical policies, Justinian came into collision with the
Jews , the pagans, and various Christian sects. The latter included the
Manichaeans , the
Nestorians , the
Monophysites , and the
Arians . In order to completely eradicate
paganism , Justinian closed the famous philosophic school in
Athens
in 529. [24]
During the 6th century, the traditional
Greco-Roman culture
was still influential in the Eastern empire with prominent representatives such as the natural philosopher
John Philoponus . During the same century, however, the Christian philosophy and culture were in the ascendant and began to dominate the older culture. Hymns written by
Romanos
the Melode marked the development of the
Divine Liturgy , while architects and builders worked to complete the new Church of the
Holy Wisdom ,
Hagia Sophia , designed to replace an older church destroyed in the course of the Nika revolt. Hagia Sophia stands today as one of the major monuments of architectural history. [14]
Justinian's successor,
Justin II , refused to pay the large tribute to the Persians. Meanwhile, the Germanic
Lombards
invaded Italy; by the end of the century only a third of Italy was in Byzantine hands. Justin's successor,
Tiberius II , choosing between his enemies, awarded subsidies to the
Avars
while taking military action against the Persians. Although Tiberius' general,
Maurice , led an effective campaign on the eastern frontier, subsidies failed to restrain the Avars. They captured the Balkan fortress of
Sirmium
in 582, while the
Turks
began to make inroads across the Danube. Maurice, who in the meantime had become emperor, made peace with the Sassanian Emperor
Khosrau II , achieving access to Armenia, and forced the Avars back across the Danube by 602. [14]
Heraclian dynasty and shrinking borders Edit
Main article:
Byzantium under the Heraclians
See also:
Heraclius ,
Roman-Persian Wars , and
Byzantine-Arab Wars
Byzantine Empire by 626 A.D., at the end of the war with the
Sassanids , striped section is territories still threatened by the Sassanids
After Maurice's murder by
Phocas , Khosrau used the pretext to reconquer the Roman province of
Mesopotamia . [25]
Phocas, an unpopular ruler who is invariably described in Byzantine sources as a "tyrant", was the target of a number of senate-led plots. He was eventually deposed in 610 by
Heraclius , who sailed to Constantinople from
Carthage
with an icon affixed to the prow of his ship. [26]
Following the accession of Heraclius the Persian advance pushed deep into Asia Minor, also occupying
Damascus
and
Jerusalem
and removing the
True Cross
to
Ctesiphon . [27]
The counter-offensive of Heraclius took on the character of a holy war, and an
acheiropoietos
image of Christ was carried as a military standard. [28]
Similarly, when Constantinople was saved from an
Avar
siege in 626, the victory was attributed to the icons of the Virgin which were led in procession by
Patriarch Sergius
about the walls of the city. [29]
The main Persian force was destroyed at
Nineveh
in 627, and in 629 Heraclius restored the True Cross to Jerusalem in a majestic ceremony. [30]
The war had exhausted both the Byzantine and Persian states, and left them extremely vulnerable to the
Arab
forces which emerged in the following years. [31]
The Byzantines suffered a crushing defeat at the
Battle of Yarmuk
in 636, and Ctesiphon fell in 634. [32]
Heraclius was the first emperor to replace the traditional Latin title for his office ( Augustus ) with the Greek
Basileus
( Βασιλεύς ). [33]
This shift from Latin to Greek finds a parallel in the contemporary abandonment of Latin in official documents. [34]
In an attempt to heal the doctrinal divide between
Chalcedonian
and
monophysite
Christians, Heraclius proposed
monotheletism
as a compromise. In 638 the new doctrine was posted in the narthex of Hagia Sophia as part of a text called the
Ekthesis , which also forbade further discussion of the issue. By this time, however, Syria and Palestine, both hotbeds of monophysite belief, had fallen to the Arabs, and another monophysite center, Egypt, fell by 642. Ambivalence toward Byzantine rule on the part of monophysites may have lessened local resistance to the Arab expansion. [35]
Heraclius did succeed in establishing a dynasty, and his descendents held onto the throne, with some interruption, until 711. Their reigns were marked both by major external threats, from the west and the east, which reduced the territory of the empire to a fraction of its 6th-century extent, and by significant internal turmoil and cultural transformation.
Byzantine Empire by 650 A.D., by this year it lost all of its Southern Provinces except the
Exarchate of Carthage
The Arabs, now firmly in control of Syria and the Levant, sent frequent raiding parties deep into Anatolia, and between 674 and 678
laid siege
to Constantinople itself. The Arab fleet was finally repulsed through the use of
Greek fire , and a thirty-years' truce was signed between empire and
caliphate . [36]
The Anatolian raids continued unabated, and accelerated the demise of classical urban culture, with the inhabitants of many cities either refortifying much smaller areas within the old city walls, or relocating entirely to nearby fortresses. [37]
The void left by the disappearance of the old semi-autonomous civic institutions was filled by the
theme system , which entailed the division of Anatolia into "provinces" occupied by distinct armies which assumed civil authority and answered directly to the imperial administration. This system may have had its roots in certain
ad hoc
measures taken by Heraclius, but over the course of the seventh century it developed into an entirely new system of imperial governance. [38]
Greek fire , first used by the
Byzantine Navy
during the Byzantine-Arab Wars (from the
Madrid Skylitzes ,
Biblioteca Nacional de España ,
Madrid ).
The withdrawal of massive amounts of troops from the Balkans to combat the Persians and then the Arabs in the east opened the door for the gradual southward expansion of
Slavic peoples
into the peninsula, and, as in Anatolia, many cities shrank to small fortified settlements. [39]
In the 670s the
Bulgars
were pushed south of the Danube by the arrival of the
Khazars , and in 680 Byzantine forces which had been sent to disperse these new settlements were defeated. In the next year
Constantine IV
signed a treaty with the Bulgar khan
Asparukh , and the
new Bulgarian state
assumed sovereignty over a number of Slavic tribes which had previously, at least in name, recognized Byzantine rule. [40]
In 687/8, emperor
Justinian II
led an expedition against the Slavs and Bulgars which made significant gains, although the fact that he had to fight his way from
Thrace
to
Macedonia
demonstrates the degree to which Byzantine power in the north Balkans had declined. [41]
The one Byzantine city that remained relatively unaffected, despite a significant drop in population and at least two outbreaks of the plague, was Constantinople. [42]
However, the imperial capital was marked by its own variety of conflict, both political and religious.
Constans II
continued the monothelete policy of his grandfather, Heraclius, meeting with significant opposition from laity and clergy alike. The most vocal opponents,
Maximus the Confessor
and
Pope Martin I
were arrested, brought to Constantinople, tried, tortured, and exiled. [43]
Constans seems to have become immensely unpopular in the capital, and moved his residence to
Syracuse , where he was ultimately murdered by a member of his court. [44]
The
Senate
experienced a revival in importance in the seventh century and clashed with the emperors on numerous occasions. [45]
The final Heraclian emperor,
Justinian II , attempted to break the power of the urban aristocracy through severe taxation and the appointment of "outsiders" to administrative posts. He was driven from power in 695, and took shelter first with the Khazars and then with the Bulgars. In 705 he returned to Constantinople with the armies of the Bulgar khan
Tervel , retook the throne, and instituted a reign of terror against his enemies. With his final overthrow in 711, supported once more by the urban aristocracy, the Heraclian dynasty came to an end. [46]
The 7th century was a period of radical transformation. The empire which had once stretched from Spain to Jerusalem was now reduced to Anatolia,
Chersonesos , and some fragments of Italy and the Balkans. The territorial losses were accompanied by a cultural shift; urban civilization was massively disrupted, classical literary genres were abandoned in favor of theological treatises, [47]
and a new "radically abstract" style emerged in the visual arts. [48]
That the empire survived this period at all is somewhat surprising, especially given the total collapse of the
Sassanid Empire
in the face of the Arab expansion, but a remarkably coherent military reorganization helped to withstand the exterior pressures and laid the groundwork for the gains of the following dynasty. [49]
Isaurian dynasty and Iconoclasm Edit
The Byzantine Empire at the accession of Leo III,
c.
717. Striped land shows land raided by the Arabs. Click on the image for names of provinces
See also:
Iconoclasm (Byzantine)
Leo III the Isaurian
turned back the Muslim assault in 718, and achieved a major victory at the expense of the Arabs in 740. He also addressed himself to the task of reorganizing and consolidating the themes in Asia Minor. His successor,
Constantine V , won noteworthy victories in northern Syria, and thoroughly undermined Bulgar strength. In the beginning of the 9th century the Arabs captured Crete, and successfully attacked Sicily, but on
September 3 ,
863 , general
Petronas
attained a huge victory against the
emir
of
Melitene . Under the leadership of
Krum
the Bulgar threat also reemerged, but in 814 Krum's son,
Omortag , arranged a peace with the Byzantine Empire. [50]
The 8th and 9th centuries were also dominated by controversy and religious division over
Iconoclasm .
Icons
were banned by Leo and Constantine, leading to revolts by
iconodules
(supporters of icons) throughout the empire. After the efforts of
Empress Irene , the
Second Council of Nicaea
met in 787, and affirmed that icons could be venerated but not worshipped. Irene is said to have endeavored to negotiate a marriage between herself and
Charlemagne , but, according to
Theophanes the Confessor , the scheme was frustrated by Aetios, one of her favourites. [51]
In 813
Leo V the Armenian
restored the policy of iconoclasm, but in 843
Empress Theodora
restored the veneration of the icons with the help of
Patriarch Methodios . [52]
Iconoclasm played its part in the further alienation of East from West, which worsened during the so-called
Photian Schism , when
Pope Nicholas I
challenged
Photios ' elevation to the patriarchate.
Macedonian dynasty and resurgence Edit
The Byzantine Empire reached its height under the
Macedonian
emperors of the late 9th, 10th, and early 11th centuries, when it gained control over the
Adriatic Sea , southern Italy, and all of the territory of the
tsar
Samuel . The cities of the empire expanded, and affluence spread across the provinces because of the new-found security. The population rose, and production increased, stimulating new demand while also helping to encourage
trade . Culturally, there was considerable growth in education and learning. Ancient texts were preserved and patiently re-copied.
Byzantine art
flourished, and brilliant
mosaics
graced the interiors of the many new churches. [53]
Though the empire was significantly smaller than during the reign of Justinian, it was also stronger, as the remaining territories were less geographically dispersed and more politically and culturally integrated.
Internal developments Edit
Although traditionally attributed to
Basil I
(867–886), initiator of the Macedonian dynasty, the " Byzantine renaissance " has been more recently ascribed to the reforms of his predecessor,
Michael III
(842–867) and his wife's counsellor, the erudite
Theoktistos . The latter in particular favoured culture at the court, and, with a careful financial policy, steadily increased the gold reserves of the Empire. The rise of the Macedonian dynasty coincided with internal developments which strengthened the religious unity of the empire. [54]
The
iconoclast
movement was experiencing a steep decline: this favoured its soft suppression by the emperors and the reconciliation of the religious strife that had drained the imperial resources in the previous centuries. Despite occasional tactical defeats, the administrative, legislative, cultural and economic situation continued to improve under Basil's successors, especially with
Romanos I Lekapenos
(920–944). The
theme
system reached its definitive form in this period. The church establishment began to loyally support the imperial cause, and the power of the landowning class was limited in favour of agricultural small holders, who made up an important part of the military force of the Empire. These favourable conditions contributed to the increasing ability of the emperors to wage war against the Arabs.
Wars against the Muslims Edit
See also:
Muslim conquests
By 867, the empire had stabilised its position in both the east and the west, while the success of its defensive military structure had enabled the emperors to begin planning wars of reconquest in the east.
Byzantine Empire, c. 867 AD
The process of reconquest began with variable fortunes. The temporary reconquest of
Crete
(843) was followed by a crushing Byzantine defeat on the
Bosporus , while the emperors were unable to prevent the ongoing Muslim conquest of
Sicily
(827–902). Using present day
Tunisia
as their launching pad, the Muslims conquered
Palermo
in 831,
Messina
in 842,
Enna
in 859,
Syracuse
in 878,
Catania
in 900 and the final Greek stronghold, the fortress of
Taormina , in 902.
These drawbacks were later counterbalanced by a victorious expedition against
Damietta
in Egypt (856), the defeat of the Emir of
Melitene
(863), the confirmation of the imperial authority over
Dalmatia
(867) and Basil I's offensives towards the
Euphrates
(870s).
The threat from the Muslims was meanwhile reduced by inner struggles and by the rise of the
Turks
in the east. Muslims received assistance however from the
Paulician
sect, which had found a large following in the eastern provinces of the Empire and, facing persecution under the Byzantines, often fought under the Arab flag. It took several campaigns to subdue the Paulicians, who were eventually defeated by Basil I. [53]
In 904, disaster struck the empire when its second city,
Thessaloniki , was sacked by an Arab fleet led by a Byzantine renegade. The Byzantines responded by destroying an Arab fleet in 908, and sacking the city of
Laodicea
in Syria two years later. Despite this revenge, the Byzantines were still unable to strike a decisive blow against the Muslims, who inflicted a crushing defeat on the imperial forces when they attempted to regain Crete in 911.
The situation on the border with the Arab territories remained fluid, with the Byzantines alternatively on the offensive or defensive.
The Rus , who appeared near Constantinople
for the first time in 860 , constituted another new challenge. In 941
they appeared on the Asian shore
of the Bosporus, but this time they were crushed, showing the improvements in the Byzantine military position after 907, when
only diplomacy had been able to push back the invaders . The vanquisher of the Rus was the famous general
John Kourkouas , who continued the offensive with other noteworthy victories in Mesopotamia (943): these culminated in the reconquest of
Edessa
(944), which was especially celebrated for the return to Constantinople of the venerated
Mandylion .
The soldier emperors
Nikephoros II Phokas
(reigned 963–969) and
John I Tzimiskes
(969–976) expanded the empire well into
Syria , defeating the emirs of north-west
Iraq
and reconquering
Crete
and
Cyprus . At one point under John, the empire's armies even threatened
Jerusalem , far to the south. The emirate of
Aleppo
and its neighbours became vassals of the empire in the east, where the greatest threat to the empire was the Egyptian
Fatimid
kingdom. [53]
Wars against the Bulgarians Edit
For more details on this topic, see
Byzantine-Bulgarian Wars .
Emperor Basil II the Bulgar Slayer (976–1025).
The traditional struggle with the
See of Rome
continued, spurred by the question of religious supremacy over the newly Christianized Bulgaria. This prompted an invasion by the powerful tsar
Simeon I
in 894, but this was pushed back by the Byzantine diplomacy, which called on the help of the Hungarians. The Byzantines were in turn defeated, however, at the
Battle of Bulgarophygon
(896), and obliged to pay annual subsides to the Bulgars. Later (912) Simeon even had the Byzantines grant him the crown of
basileus
of Bulgaria and had the young emperor
Constantine VII
marry one of his daughters. When a revolt in Constantinople halted his dynastic project, he again invaded Thrace and conquered
Adrianople . [53]
A great imperial expedition under
Leo Phokas
and
Romanos Lekapenos
ended again with a crushing Byzantine defeat at the
Battle of Anchialus
(917), and the following year the Bulgars were free to ravage northern Greece up to
Corinth . Adrianople was captured again in 923 and in 924 a Bulgar army laid siege to Constantinople. The situation in the Balkans improved only after Simeon's death in 927.
Under the emperor
Basil II
(reigned 976–1025), the Bulgars, who had conquered much of the Balkans from the Byzantines since their arrival three hundred years previously, became the target of annual campaigns by the Byzantine army. The war was to drag on for nearly twenty years, but eventually at the
Battle of Kleidon
the Bulgars were completely defeated. [55]
The Bulgarian army was captured, and it is said that 99 out of every 100 men were blinded, with the remaining hundredth man left with one eye so as to lead his compatriots home. When tsar
Samuel
saw the broken remains of his once gallant army, he died of shock. In 1018 Bulgaria surrendered and became part of the empire. This stunning victory restored the
Danube
frontier, which had not been held since the days of the emperor Heraclius. [53]
The empire also gained a new ally at this time in the new
Varangian
state in
Kiev , from which the empire received an important mercenary force, the famous
Varangian Guard , in exchange for the marriage of Basil's sister Anna to
Vladimir I of Kiev . [53]
Basil II also had relatives marry leaders of the
Holy Roman Empire .
Triumph Edit
The Byzantine Empire under
Basil II ,
c.
1025.
The Byzantine Empire now stretched to
Armenia
in the east, to
Calabria
in
Southern Italy
in the west. [53]
Many successes had been achieved, ranging from the conquest of
Bulgaria , to the annexation of parts of
Georgia
and Armenia, to the total annihilation of an invading force of Egyptians outside
Antioch . Yet even these victories were not enough; Basil considered the continued
Arab
occupation of
Sicily
to be an outrage. Accordingly, he planned to reconquer the island, which had belonged to the empire for over 300 years (c. 550 – c. 900). However, his death in 1025 put an end to the project. [53]
The 11th century was also momentous for its religious events. In 1054, relations between Greek-speaking Eastern and Latin-speaking Western traditions within the Christian Church reached a terminal crisis. Although there was a formal declaration of institutional separation, on
July 16 , when three papal legates entered the Hagia Sophia during
Divine Liturgy
on a Saturday afternoon and placed a
bull
of
excommunication
on the altar, the so-called
Great Schism
was actually the culmination of centuries of gradual separation. Although the schism was brought about by doctrinal disputes (in particular, Eastern refusal to accept the Western Church doctrine of the
filioque , or double procession of the
Holy Spirit ), disputes over administration and political issues had simmered for centuries. The formal separation of the Byzantine
Orthodox Church
and the Western
Catholic Church
would have wide ranging consequences for the future of Byzantium.
Crisis and fragmentation Edit
Diptych of Romanos and
Eudocia Macrembolitissa
crowned by Christ ( Bibliothèque nationale de France ,
Paris ).
Byzantium soon fell into a period of difficulties, caused to a large extent by the undermining of the theme system and the neglect of the military. Nikephoros II, John Tzimiskes and Basil II changed the military divisions ( τάγματα ,
tagmata ) from a rapid response, primarily defensive, citizen army into a professional, campaigning army increasingly manned by mercenaries. Mercenaries, however, were expensive and as the threat of invasion receded in the 10th century, so did the need for maintaining large garrisons and expensive fortifications. [56]
Basil II left a burgeoning treasury upon his death, but neglected to plan for his succession. None of his immediate successors had any particular military or political talent and the administration of the Empire increasingly fell into the hands of the civil service. Efforts to revive the Byzantine economy only resulted in inflation and a debased gold coinage. The army was now seen as both an unnecessary expense and a political threat. Therefore, native troops were cashiered and replaced by foreign mercenaries on specific contract. [57]
Map of Italy on the eve of the arrival of the Normans.
At the same time, the Empire was faced with new, ambitious enemies. Byzantine provinces in southern Italy faced the
Normans , who arrived in Italy at the beginning of the 11th century. The allied forces of
Melus of Bari
and the Normans were defeated at the
Battle of Cannae
in 1018, and two decades later
Michael IV the Paphlagonian
equipped an expedition for the reconquest of Sicily from the Arabs. Although the campaign was initially successful, the reconquest of Sicily was not accomplished, mainly because
George Maniaces , the commander of the Byzantine forces, was recalled when he was suspected of having ambitious schemes. During a period of strife between Byzantium and Rome which ended in the
East-West Schism
of 1054, the Normans began to advance, slowly but steadily, into Byzantine Italy. [58]
It was in Asia Minor, however, that the greatest disaster would take place. The
Seljuq Turks
made their first explorations across the Byzantine frontier into Armenia in 1065 and in 1067. The emergency lent weight to the military aristocracy in Anatolia who, in 1068, secured the election of one of their own,
Romanos Diogenes , as emperor. In the summer of 1071, Romanos undertook a massive eastern campaign to draw the Seljuks into a general engagement with the Byzantine army. At
Manzikert
Romanos not only suffered a surprise defeat at the hands of
Sultan
Alp Arslan , but was also captured. Alp Arslan treated him with respect, and imposed no harsh terms on the Byzantines. [57]
In Constantinople, however, a coup took place in favor of
Michael Doukas , who soon faced the opposition of
Nikephoros Bryennios
and
Nikephoros Botaneiates . By 1081 the Seljuks expanded their rule over virtually the entire Anatolian plateau from Armenia in the east to
Bithynia
in the west and founded their capital in Nicea. [59]
Komnenian dynasty and the crusaders Edit
For more details on this topic, see
Byzantium under the Komnenoi .
Alexios I and the First Crusade Edit
For more details on this topic, see
Alexios I Komnenos .
See also:
First Crusade
The Byzantine Empire and the Sultanate of Rum before the Crusades
After Manzikert, a partial recovery (referred to as the
Komnenian restoration ) was made possible by the efforts of the
Komnenian dynasty . [60]
The first emperor of this royal line was
Isaac I
(1057–1059) and the second Alexios I. At the very outset of his reign, Alexios faced a formidable attack by the Normans under
Robert Guiscard
and his son
Bohemund of Taranto , who captured
Dyrrhachium
and
Corfu , and laid siege to
Larissa
in
Thessaly . Robert Guiscard's death in 1085 temporarily eased the Norman problem. The following year the Seljuq sultan died, and the sultanate was split by internal rivalries. By his own efforts, Alexios defeated the
Pechenegs ; they were caught by surprise and annihilated at the
Battle of Levounion
on
28 April
1091 . [14]
Having achieved stability in the West, Alexios could turn his attention to the severe economic difficulties and the disintegration of the empire's traditional defences. [61]
However, he still did not have enough manpower to recover the lost territories in
Asia Minor , and to advance against the Seljuks. At the
Council of Piacenza
in 1095, Alexios' envoys spoke to
Pope Urban II
about the suffering of the Christians of the East, and underscored that without help from the West they would continue to suffer under Muslim rule. Urban saw Alexius' request as a dual opportunity to cement Western Europe and enhance papal power. [62]
On
27 November ,
1095 ,
Pope Urban II
called together the
Council of Clermont , and urged all those present to take up arms under the sign of the
Cross
and launch an armed
pilgrimage
to recover Jerusalem and the East from the Muslims. The response in
Western Europe
was overwhelming. [14]
The very brief first coinage of the
Thessaloniki
mint, which Alexios opened as he passed through in September 1081 on his way to confront the invading Normans under Robert Guiscard.
Alexios had anticipated help in the form of mercenary forces from the West, but was totally unprepared for the immense and undisciplined force which soon arrived in Byzantine territory. It was no comfort to Alexius to learn that four of the eight leaders of the main body of the Crusade were Normans, among them Bohemund. Since the crusade had to pass through Constantinople, however, the Emperor had some control over it. He required its leaders to swear to restore to the empire any towns or territories they might conquer from the Turks on their way to the Holy Land. In return, he gave them guides and a military escort. [63]
Alexios was able to recover a number of important cities and islands, and in fact much of western Asia Minor. Nevertheless, the crusaders believed their oaths were invalidated when Alexios did not help them during the siege of
Antioch
(he had in fact set out on the road to Antioch, but had been persuaded to turn back by
Stephen of Blois , who assured him that all was lost and that the expedition had already failed). [64]
Bohemund, who had set himself up as
Prince of Antioch , briefly went to war with the Byzantines, but agreed to become Alexios' vassal under the
Treaty of Devol
in 1108, which marked the end of Norman threat during Alexios' reign. [65]
File:Jerusalem1099.jpg
Alexios reconstituted the army and navy, but only by means of stabilizing the gold coinage at one-third of its original value and by imposing supplementary taxes. The supply of native soldiers had virtually ceased with the disappearance or absorption of their military holdings. Alexios promoted an alternative source of native manpower by extending the system of granting estates in
pronoia
(by favour of the emperor) and tying the grant to a military obligation. Similarly, Alexios tried to promote more profitable development of the estates of the church by granting them to the management of laymen. [14]
The final years of Alexios's reign were marked by persecution of the followers of the
Paulician
and
Bogomil
heresies, and by anxieties as to the succession, which his wife
Irene Doukaina
wished to alter in favor of her daughter Anna's husband,
Nikephorus Bryennios . [66]
John II, Manuel I and the Second Crusade Edit
Main articles:
John II Komnenos
and
Manuel I Komnenos
John II Komnenos left the imperial treasury full, and did not call for the execution or maiming of a single subject during his reign. Nicknamed 'John the Good', he is regarded by the Byzantine historian
Niketas Choniates
as the best emperor of the Komnenian dynasty. [67]
Alexios' son
John II Komnenos
succeeded him in 1118, and was to rule until 1143. John was a pious and dedicated emperor who was determined to undo the damage his empire had suffered at the
battle of Manzikert , half a century earlier. [68]
Famed for his piety and his remarkably mild and just reign, John was an exceptional example of a moral ruler, at a time when cruelty was the norm. [69]
For this reason, he has been called the Byzantine
Marcus Aurelius . In the course of his twenty-five year reign, John made alliances with the
Holy Roman Empire
in the west, decisively defeated the
Pechenegs
at the
Battle of Beroia , [70]
and personally led numerous campaigns against the
Turks
in
Asia Minor . John's campaigns fundamentally changed the balance of power in the east, forcing the Turks onto the defensive and restoring to the Byzantines many towns, fortresses and cities right across the peninsula. [67]
He also thwarted Hungarian, and Serbian threats during the 1120s, and in 1130 allied himself with the
German emperor
Lothair III
against the Norman King
Roger II of Sicily . [71]
In the later part of his reign John focussed his activities on the East. He defeated the
Danishmend
emirate of
Melitene , and reconquered all of
Cilicia , while forceing
Raymond of Poitiers , Prince of Antioch, to recognize Byzantine suzerainty. In an effort to demonstrate the Byzantine emperor's role as the leader of the
Christian
world, John marched into the
Holy Land
at the head of the combined forces of Byzantium and the
Crusader
states; yet despite the great vigour with which he pressed the campaign, John's hopes were disappointed by the treachery of his Crusader allies. [72]
In 1142 John returned to press his claims to Antioch, but he died in the spring of 1143 following a hunting accident. Raymond was emboldened to invade Cilicia, but he was defeated and forced to go to Constantinople to beg mercy from the new emperor. [73]
Byzantine Empire in red, c.1180, at the end of the Komnenian period.
John's chosen heir was his fourth son, Manuel I Komnenos, who campaigned aggressively against his neighbours both in the west and in the east. In Palestine, he allied himself with the Crusader
Kingdom of Jerusalem
and sent a large fleet to participate in a combined invasion of
Fatimid Egypt . Manuel reinforced his position as overlord of the Crusader states, with his hegemony over Antioch and Jerusalem secured by agreement with
Raynald , Prince of Antioch, and
Amalric , King of Jerusalem respectively. [74]
In an effort to restore Byzantine control over the ports of southern Italy, he sent an expedition to Italy in 1155, but disputes within the coalition led to the eventual failure of the campaign. Despite this military setback, Manuel's armies successfully invaded the
Kingdom of Hungary
in 1167, defeating the Hungarians at the
Battle of Sirmium . By 1168 nearly the whole of the eastern Adriatic coast lay in Manuel's hands. [75]
Manuel made several alliances with the Pope and Western Christian kingdoms, and successfully handled the passage of the
Second Crusade
through his empire. [76]
Although hopes for a lasting Papal-Byzantine alliance came up against insuperable problems, Pope
Innocent III
clearly had a positive view of Manuel when he told
Alexios III
that he should imitate "your predecessor Manuel of famous memory" who "always replied favourably to ourselves and our predecessors". [77]
In the east, however, Manuel suffered a major defeat at the
Battle of Myriokephalon , in 1176, against the Turks. Yet the losses were quickly made good, and in the following year Manuel's forces inflicted a defeat upon a force of "picked Turks". [78]
John Vatatzes, who was sent by the Emperor to repel the Turkish invasion, not only brought troops from the capital but also was able to gather an army along the way; a sign that the Byzantine army remained strong and that the defensive program of western Asia Minor was still successful. [79]
12th century Renaissance Edit
For more details on this topic, see
Byzantine civilisation in the twelfth century .
See also:
Komnenian army
John and Manuel pursued active military policies, and both deployed considerable resources on sieges and on city defenses; aggressive fortification policies were at the heart of their imperial military policies. [80]
Despite the defeat at Myriokephalon, the policies of Alexios, John and Manuel resulted in vast territorial gains, increased frontier stability in Asia Minor, and secured the stabilization of the empire's European frontiers. From c.1081 to c.1180, the Komnenian army assured the empire's security, enabling Byzantine civilization to flourish. [81]
The most famous of the surviving Byzantine mosaics of the
Hagia Sophia
-
Christ Pantocrator
flanked by the
Virgin Mary
and
John the Baptist . The mosaics were made in the 12th century.
This allowed the Western provinces to achieve an economic revival which continued until the close of the century. It has been argued that Byzantium under the Komnenian rule was more prosperous than at any time since the Persian invasions of the 7th century. During the 12th century population levels rose and extensive tracts of new agricultural land were brought into production. Archaeological evidence from both Europe and Asia Minor shows a considerable increase in the size of urban settlements, together with a notable upsurge in new towns. Trade was also flourishing; the Venetians, the
Genoese
and others opened up the ports of the Aegean to commerce, shipping goods from the Crusader kingdoms of Outremer and
Fatimid Egypt
to the west and trading with Byzantium via Constantinople. [82]
In artistic terms, there was a revival in
mosaic , and regional schools of
architecture
began producing many distinctive styles that drew on a range of cultural influences. [83]
During the 12th century the Byzantines provided their model of early
humanism
as a renaissance of interest in classical authors. In
Eustathius of Thessalonica
Byzantine humanism found its most characteristic expression. [84]
Decline and disintegration Edit
Main article:
Byzantium under the Angeloi
Dynasty of the Angeli and Third Crusade Edit
"Whatever paper might be presented to the Emperor (Alexios III) for his signature, he signed it immediately; it did not matter that in this paper there was a senseless agglomeration of words, or that the supplicant demanded that one might sail by land or till the sea, or that mountains should be transferred into the middle of the seas or, as a tale says, that
Athos
should be put upon
Olympus ."
Nicetas Choniates [85]
Manuel's death on
24 September
1180
left his 11-year-old son
Alexios II Komnenos
on the throne. Though he was highly incompetent at the office, it was his mother,
Maria of Antioch , and her Frankish background that made his regency highly unpopular. [86]
Eventually
Andronikos I Komnenos , a grandson of Alexios I, launched a revolt against his younger relative and managed to overthrow him in a violent
coup d'état . Utilizing his good looks and his immense popularity with the army, he marched on to Constantinople in August 1182, and incited a massacre of the Latins. [87]
After eliminating his potential rivals, he had himself crowned as co-emperor in September 1183; he eliminated Alexios II and even took his 12-year-old wife
Agnes of France
for himself. [87]
This troubled succession weakened the dynastic continuity and solidarity on which the strength of the Byzantine state had come to rely. [88]
The new emperor was a man of astounding contrasts. [88]
Handsome and eloquent, Andronikos was at the same time known for his licentious exploits. [89]
Energetic, able and determined, Andronikos had been called a "true Komnenos". [90]
However, he was also capable of terrifying brutality, violence and cruelty. [88]
Andronikos began his reign well; in particular, the measures he took to reform the government of the empire have been praised by historians. In the provinces Andronikos' reforms produced a speedy and marked improvement. [88]
Andronikos's fierce determination to root out corruption and many other abuses was admirable; under Andronikos, the sale of offices ceased; selection was based on merit, rather than favouritism; officials were paid an adequate salary so as to reduce the temptation of bribery. Every form of corruption was eliminated with ferocious zeal. [88]
The people, who felt the severity of his laws, at the same time acknowledged their justice, and found themselves protected from the rapacity of their superiors. [88]
Andronikos's energetic efforts to rein in the oppressive tax collectors and officials of the empire did much to alleviate the lot of the peasantry. However, his efforts to check the power of the nobility were considerably more problematic. The aristocrats were infuriated against him, and to make matters worse, Andronikos seems to have become increasingly unbalanced; executions and violence became increasingly common, and his reign turned into a reign of terror. [91]
Andronikos seemed almost to seek the extermination of the aristocracy as a whole. The struggle against the aristocracy turned into wholesale slaughter, while the emperor resorted to ever more ruthless measures to shore up his regime. [88]
Despite his military background, Andronikos failed to deal with
Isaac Komnenos ,
Béla III
who reincorporated Croation territories into Hungary, and
Stephen Nemanja
of Serbia who declared his independence from Byzantium. Yet none of these troubles would compare to the
William's of Sicily
invasion force of 300 ships and 80,000 men, arriving in 1185. [92]
Andronikos mobilized a small fleet of 100 ships to defend the capital but other than that he was indifferent to the populace. He was finally overthrown when
Isaac Angelos , surviving an Imperial assassination attempt, marched on to the Hagia Sophia and with the aid of the people seized power and had Andronikos killed. [93]
Iconium is won by the Third Crusade.
The reign of Isaac II , and, still more, that of his brother
Alexios III , saw the collapse of what remained of the centralized machinery of Byzantine government and defense. Although, the Normans were driven out of Greece, in 1186 the Bulgars began a rebellion that was to lead to the formation of the
Second Bulgarian Empire . The mismanagement of the
Third Crusade
clearly demonstrated Byzantium's weaknesses under the Angeli. When
Richard I of England
appropriated
Cyprus
from its ruler, Isaac Komnenos, he refused to hand it back to the Empire, [94]
And when
Frederick Barbarossa
conquered
Iconium , Isaac failed to seize the initiative. [95] The internal policy of the Angeloi was characterized by the squandering of the public treasure, and the fiscal maladministration. Byzantine authority was severely weakened, and the growing power vacuum at the centre of the empire encouraged fragmentation. There is evidence that some Komnenian heirs had set up a semi-independent state in
Trebizond
before 1204. [96]
According to
Alexander Vasiliev , "the dynasty of the Angeloi, Greek in its origin, [...] accelerated the ruin of the Empire, already weakened without and disunited within." [85]
Fourth Crusade Edit
For more details on this topic, see
Fourth Crusade .
The Entry of the Crusaders into Constantinople , by
Eugène Delacroix
(1840,
oil on canvas , 410 x 498 cm,
Louvre ,
Paris ).
In 1198,
Pope Innocent III
broached the subject of a new crusade through
legates
and
encyclical letters . [97]
The stated intent of the crusade was to conquer
Egypt , now the centre of Muslim power in the
Levant . The crusader army that arrived at
Venice
in the summer of 1202 was somewhat smaller than had been anticipated, and there were not sufficient funds to pay the Venetians, whose fleet was hired by the crusaders to take them to Egypt. Venetian policy under the aging and blind but still ambitious
Doge
Enrico Dandolo
was potentially at variance with that of the Pope and the crusaders, because Venice was closely related commercially with Egypt. [98]
The crusaders accepted the suggestion that in lieu of payment they assist the Venetians in the capture of the (Christian) port of
Zara
in
Dalmatia
(vassal city of Venice, which had rebelled and placed itself under Hungary's protection in 1186). [99]
The city fell in November 1202 after a brief
siege . [100]
Innocent, who was informed of the plan, but his veto was disregarded, was reluctant to jeopardize the Crusade, and gave conditional absolution to the crusaders—not, however, to the Venetians. [98]
After the death of
Theobald III , the leadership of the Crusade passed to
Boniface of Montferrat , a friend of the
Hohenstaufen
Philip of Swabia . Both Boniface and Philip had married into the Byzantine imperial family. In fact, Philip's brother-in-law,
Alexios Angelos , son of the deposed and blinded emperor
Isaac II Angelos , had appeared in Europe seeking aid and had made contacts with the crusaders. Alexios offered to reunite the
Byzantine church
with Rome, pay the crusaders 200,000 silver marks, and join the crusade with 200,000 silver marks and all the supplies they needed to get to Egypt. [101]
Innocent was aware of a plan to divert the Crusade to Constantinople, and forbade any attack on the city; but the papal letter arrived after the fleets had left Zara.
Alexios III made no preparations for the defense of the city; thus, when the Venetian fleet entered the waters of Constantinople on
June 24 ,
1203 , they encountered little resistance. [101]
In the summer of 1203 Alexios III fled, and Alexios Angelos was elevated to the throne as Alexios IV along with his blind father Isaac. Innocent reprimanded the leaders of the crusaders, and ordered them to proceed forthwith to the Holy Land. [102]
"None of you should therefore dare to assume that it is permissible for you to seize or to plunder the land of the Greeks, even though the latter may be disobedient to the Apostolic See, or on the grounds that the Emperor of Constantinople has deposed and even blinded his brother and usurped the imperial throne. For though this same emperor and the men entrusted to his rule may have sinned, both in these and in other matters, it is not for you to judge their faults, nor have you assumed the sign of the cross to punish this injury; rather you specifically pledged your self to the duty of avenging the insult to the cross."
Innocent III to
Boniface I of Montferrat ,
Baldwin IX, Count of Flanders , and
Louis I
( Ferentino , summer 1203, c.
June 20 ). [103]
When in late November 1203 Alexios IV announced that his promises were hard to keep as the empire was short on funds (he had managed to pay roughly half of the promised amount of 200,000 silver marks, and could not fulfil his promise that he would cover the Venetians' rent of the fleet for the crusaders. [104] ), the crusaders declared war on him. Meanwhile, internal opposition to Alexios IV grew, and, on
January 25 ,
1204 , one of his courtiers,
Alexios Doukas
killed him, and took the throne himself as Alexios V; Isaac died soon afterwards, probably naturally. [105]
The crusaders and Venetians, incensed at the murder of their supposed patron, prepared to assault the Byzantine capital. They decided that 12 electors (six Venetians and six crusaders) should choose a
Latin emperor . [98]
File:Byzantium1215.JPG
Eventually, the crusaders took the city on
April 13 ,
1204 . Constantinople was subjected by the rank and file to pillage and massacre for three days. Many priceless icons, relics, and other objects later turned up in
Western Europe , a large number in Venice. According to Choniates, a
prostitute
was even set up on the Patriarchal throne. [106]
When Innocent III heard of the conduct of his crusaders, he castigated them in no uncertain terms. But the situation was beyond his control, especially after his legate, on his own initiative, had absolved the crusaders from their vow to proceed to the Holy Land. [107]
When order had been restored, the crusaders and the Venetians proceeded to implement their agreement;
Baldwin of Flanders
was elected emperor and the Venetian
Thomas Morosini
chosen patriarch. The lands parcelled out among the leaders did not include all the former Byzantine possessions. The Byzantine rule continued in
Nicaea ,
Trebizond , and
Epirus . [98]
Fall
Edit
See also:
Decline of the Byzantine Empire  and
Byzantine-Ottoman wars
For more details on this topic, see
Byzantium under the Palaiologoi .
File:1263.PNG
Empire in exile Edit
After the sack of Constantinople in 1204 by Latin
Crusaders , three Byzantine
successor states
were established: the
Empire of Nicaea , the
Empire of Trebizond
and the
Despotate of Epirus . Of these three successor states, Epirus and Nicaea stood the best chance of reclaiming Constantinople. The Nicaean Empire struggled, however, to survive the next few decades, and by the mid 13th century it lost much of southern Anatolia. [108]
The weakening of the Sultanate of Rum following the
Mongol Invasion in 1242-43
allowed many
Beyliks
and fanatical
ghazis
to set up their own principalities in Anatolia, weakening the Byzantine hold on Asia Minor. [109]
In time, one of the Beys,
Osman I , created an empire that would conquer Byzantium. However, the Mongol Invasion also gave Nicaea a temporary respite from Seljuk attacks allowing it to concentrate on the Latin Empire only north of its position.
Reconquest of Constantinople Edit
The Empire of Nicaea, founded by the
Laskaris , managed to reclaim Constantinople from the Latins in 1261 and defeat Epirus. This led to a short lived revival of Byzantine fortunes under
Michael VIII , but the war-ravaged empire was ill-equipped to deal with the encircling enemies that now surrounded it. In order to maintain his campaigns against the Latins, Michael pulled troops from Asia Minor, and levied crippling taxes on the peasantry, causing much resentment. [110]
Massive construction projects were completed in Constantinople to repair the damages of the Fourth Crusade, but none of these initiatives was of any comfort to the farmers in Asia Minor, suffering raids from fanatical ghazis.
Rather than holding on to his possessions in Asia Minor, Michael chose to expand the Empire, gaining only short-term success. To avoid another sacking of the capital by the Latins, he forced the Orthodox Church to submit to Rome, again a temporary solution for which the peasantry hated Michael and Constantinople. [111]
The efforts of
Andronikos II
and later his grandson
Andronikos III
marked Byzantium's last genuine attempts in restoring the glory of the empire. However, the use of mercenaries by Andronikos II would often backfire, with the
Catalan Company
ravaging the countryside and increasing resentment towards Constantinople [112]
By 1390,
Philadelphia , the last Byzantine stronghold in inner Asia Minor, fell to the Turks.
File:Byzantium1375.jpg
Civil war wracked the empire during the 14th century, since Andronikos III's successor was far too young to rule and the resulting regency's rivalry tore the Empire. The Asian provinces were lost to the Turks, while the Serbians and Bulgarians conquered the Empire's remaining territory in Europe. For a while, the empire survived simply because the Turks of Anatolia were too divided to attack. Nevertheless, the unifying influence of
Osman I
(1258–1326) allowed the newly founded
Ottoman Empire
to deprive the Byzantines of all but a handful of port cities. [66]
Things went worse for Byzantium, when, during the civil war, an earthquake at Gallipoli in 1354 devastated the fort, allowing the Turks the very next day to cross into Europe. [113]
By the time the Byzantine civil war had ended, the Ottomans had defeated the Serbians and subjugated them as vassals. Following the
Battle of Kosovo , much of the Balkans became dominated by the Ottomans. [114]
The Emperors appealed to the west for help, but the Pope would only consider sending aid in return for a reunion of the Eastern Orthodox Church with the
See of Rome . Church unity was considered, and occasionally accomplished by imperial decree, but the Orthodox citizenry and clergy intensely resented Roman authority and the
Latin Rite . [115]
Some western mercenaries arrived to bolster the Christian defense of Constantinople, but most Western rulers, distracted by their own affairs, did nothing as the Ottomans picked apart the remaining Byzantine territories. [116]
The Byzantine Empire by 1430.
Constantinople by this stage was underpopulated and dilapidated. The population of the city had collapsed so severely that it was now little more than a cluster of villages separated by fields. On
April 2 ,
1453 , the Sultan's army of some 80,000 men and his hordes of irregulars laid siege to the city. [117]
Despite a desperate last-ditch defense of the city by the massively outnumbered Christian forces (c. 7,000 men, 2,000 of whom were foreign mercenaries [116] ),
Constantinople finally fell
to the Ottomans after a two-month siege on
May 29 ,
1453 . The last Byzantine emperor,
Constantine XI
Palaiologos, was last seen casting off his imperial regalia and throwing himself into hand-to-hand combat after the walls of the city were taken.
Aftermath Edit
The siege of Constantinople in 1453 according to a 15th century French miniature.
Mehmed II went on to conquer the Greek statelets of
Mistra
in 1460 and
Trebizond
in 1461. The nephew of the last Emperor, Constantine XI,
Andreas Palaeologos
had inherited the defunct title of
Byzantine Emperor
and used it from 1465 until his death in 1503. [3]
By the end of the 15th century, the
Ottoman Empire
had established its firm rule over Asia Minor and parts of the Balkan peninsula. Mehmed II and his successors continued to consider themselves proper heirs to the Byzantine Empire until the demise of the Ottoman Empire in the early 20th century. Meanwhile, the
Danubian Principalities
harbored Orthodox refugees, including some Byzantine nobles.
At his death, the role of the emperor as a patron of
Eastern Orthodoxy
was claimed by
Ivan III ,
Grand Duke
of
Muscovy . He had married Andreas's sister,
Sophia Paleologue , whose grandson,
Ivan IV , would become the first
Tsar
of
Russia
( tsar , also spelled
czar , is a term traditionally applied by Slavs to the Byzantine Emperors). Their successors supported the idea that
Moscow
was the proper heir to Rome and Constantinople. The idea of the
Russian Empire
as the new,
Third Rome
was kept alive until its demise with the
Russian Revolution of 1917 . [118]
Culture Edit
Byzantine Culture
Art
•
Architecture
•
Gardens
Literature
•
Music
Aristocracy &
Bureaucracy
•
Diplomacy
Economy
•
Law
Army
•
Navy
Calendar
•
Coinage
•
Cuisine
Dance
•
Dress
Medicine
•
Science
Economy Edit
Solidus
of
Justinian II , second reign, after 705
For more details on this topic, see
Byzantine economy .
The Byzantine economy was the most advanced in Europe for many centuries. Constantine V's reforms (c. 765) marked the beginning of a revival that continued until 1204. From the 10th century until the end of the 12th, the Byzantine Empire projected an image of luxury, and the travelers were impressed by the wealth accumulated in the capital. All this changed with the arrival of the Fourth Crusade, which was an economic catastrophe. [119]
One of the economic foundations of the empire was trade. Textiles must have been by far the most important item of export;
silks
were certainly imported into Egypt, and appeared also in Bulgaria, and the West. [120]
Science Edit
The frontispiece of the
Vienna Dioscurides , which shows a set of seven famous
physicians .
For more details on this topic, see
Byzantine science .
See also:
Byzantine medicine
The writings of
Classical antiquity
never ceased to be cultivated in Byzantium. Therefore, Byzantine science was in every period closely connected with
ancient philosophy , and
metaphysics . [121]
In the final century of the Empire, Byzantine grammarians were those principally responsible for carrying in person, and in writing ancient Greek grammatical, and literary studies to early
Renaissance Italy . [122]
During this period
astronomy
and other
mathematical sciences
were taught in Trebizond; medicine attracted the interest of almost all scholars. [123]
Law Edit
For more details on this topic, see
Byzantine law .
Justinian I 's reforms had a clear effect on the evolution of
jurisprudence
around the world. Indeed, to this day the basis of the legal systems in most European nations as well as most of their former colonies around the world continues to be Justinian's
Corpus Juris Civilis . [124]
In addition Leo III's
Ecloga
influenced the formation of legal institutions in the Slavic world. [125]
Religion Edit
Further information: [[ Eastern Orthodox Church ]]
As a symbol and expression of the universal prestige of the Patriarchate of Constantinople, Justinian built the temple of the Holy Wisdom,
Hagia Sophia , which was completed in the short period of four and a half years (532–537).
According to
Joseph Raya , "Byzantine culture and
Orthodoxy
are one and the same." [126]
The survival of the Empire in the East assured an active role of the Emperor in the affairs of the Church. The Byzantine state inherited from pagan times the administrative, and financial routine of administering religious affairs, and this routine was applied to the
Christian Church . Following the pattern set by Eusebeus of Caesarea, the Byzantines thought of the Emperor as a
Christ 's representative or messenger, responsible particularly for the propagation of Christianity among pagans, and for the "externals" of the religion, such as administration and finances. The imperial role, however, in the affairs of the Church never developed into a fixed, legally defined system. [127]
With the decline of Rome, and internal dissension in the other Eastern patriarchates, the church of Constantinople became, between the 6th and 11th centuries, the richest and most influential center of
Christendom . [128]
Even when the Empire was reduced to only a shadow of itself, the Church, as an institution, had never exercised so much influence both inside and outside of the imperial frontiers. As
George Ostrogorsky
points out:
The
Patriarchate of Constantinople
remained the center of the Orthodox world, with subordinate metropolitan sees and archbishoprics in the territory of Asia Minor and the Balkans, now lost to Byzantium, as well as in
Caucasus , Russia and
Lithuania . The Church remained the most stable element in the Byzantine Empire. [129]
Art and literature Edit
Main articles:
Byzantine art
and
Byzantine literature
See also:
Byzantine music
Miniatures of the 6th-century
Rabula Gospel
display the more abstract and symbolic nature of Byzantine art.
Architecture ,
painting , and other visual arts produced in the Byzantine Empire and in various areas that came under its influence. Byzantine art is almost entirely concerned with religious expression and, more specifically, with the impersonal translation of carefully controlled church theology into artistic terms. Byzantine forms were spread by trade and conquest to Italy and Sicily, where they persisted in modified form through the 12th century, and became formative influences on
Italian Renaissance
art. By means of the expansion of the Eastern Orthodox church, Byzantine forms spread to eastern European centers, particularly Russia. [130]
In Byzantine literature, therefore, four different cultural elements are to be reckoned with: the
Greek , the Christian, the
Roman , and the Oriental. Byzantine literature is often classified in five groups: historians and annalists, encyclopedists (Patriarch Photios,
Michael Psellos , and
Michael Choniates
are regarded as the greatest encyclopedists of Byzantium) and essayists, and writers of secular poetry (The only genuine heroic epic of the Byzantines is the
Digenis Acritas ). The remaining two groups include the new literary species: ecclesiastical and theological literature, and popular poetry. Of the approximately two to three thousand volumes of Byzantine literature that survive, only three hundred and thirty consist of secular poetry, history, science and pseudo-science. [131]
While the most flourishing period of the secular literature of Byzantium runs from the ninth to the twelfth century, its religious literature ( sermons , liturgical books and poetry, theology, devotional treatises etc.) developed much earlier with
Romanos
the Melodist being its most prominent representative. [132]
Government and bureaucracy Edit
The
themes
c. 650
The
themes
c. 950
See also:
Byzantine aristocracy and bureaucracy
In the Byzantine state, the
emperor
was the sole and absolute ruler, and his power was regarded as having divine origin. [3]
By the end of the 8th century, a civil administration focused on the court was formed as part of a large-scale consolidation of power in the capital (the rise to pre-eminence of the position of
sakellarios
is related to this change). [133]
The most important reform of this period is the creation of themes, where civil and military administration is exercised by one person, the
strategos . [3]
Despite the occasionally
derogatory use of the word "Byzantine" , the Byzantine bureaucracy had a distinct ability for reinventing itself in accordance with the Empire's situation. The Byzantine system of titulature and precedence makes the imperial administration look like an ordered bureaucracy to modern observers. Officials were arranged in strict order around the emperor, and depended upon the imperial will for their ranks. There were also actual administrative jobs, but authority could be vested in individuals rather than offices. [134]
In the 8th and 9th centuries civil service constituted the clearest path to aristocratic status, but, starting in the 9th century, the civil aristocracy was rivaled by an aristocracy of nobility. According to some studies of Byzantine government, 11th-century politics were dominated by competition between the civil and the military aristocracy. During this period, Alexios I undertook important administrative reforms, including the creation of new courtly dignities and offices. [135]
Diplomacy Edit
For more details on this topic, see
Byzantine diplomacy .
Olga , ruler of
Kievan Rus' , along with her escort in Constantinople (Madrid Skylitzes, Biblioteca Nacional de España, Madrid)
After the fall of Rome, the key challenge to the Empire was to maintain a set of relations between itself and its sundry neighbors. When these nations set about forging formal political institutions, they were dependent on Constantinople. Byzantine diplomacy soon managed to draw its neighbors into a network of international and inter-state relations. [136]
This network revolved around treaty making, and included the welcoming of the new ruler into the family of kings, and the assimilation of Byzantine social attitudes, values and institutions. [137]
Byzantines regarded diplomacy as a form of war by other means: the
Bureau of Barbarians
was the first foreign intelligence agency, gathering information on the empire's rivals from every imaginable source. [138]
Byzantines availed themselves of a number of diplomatic practices. For example, embassies to the capital would often stay on for years. A member of other royal houses would routinely be requested to stay on in Constantinople, not only as a potential hostage, but also as a useful pawn in case political conditions where he came from changed. Another key practice was to overwhelm visitors by sumptuous displays. [136]
According to
Dimitri Obolensky , the preservation of civilization in
Eastern Europe
was due to the skill and resourcefulness of Byzantine diplomacy, which remains one of Byzantium's lasting contributions to the history of Europe. [139]
Language Edit
Owing its origins to
Rome
the original language of the Empire was
Latin
and this continued to be the official language of the empire until the 7th century AD when
Emperor Heraclius
changed the official language to
Greek
(some historians mark this point as the proper "beginning" of the Byzantine Empire). One of the last emperors in
Constantinople
who used Latin as his primary language was
Justinian I
in the 6th century CE (who commissioned the
Corpus Juris Civilis
among many works in Latin). However, Latin still continued to be the language of the imperial court for the emperors that followed until the ascension of Heraclius.
Official status aside, the primary language used in the eastern provinces even before
fall of Rome
had always been Greek. [140]
In fact, Greek had been the most widely spoken language in the Roman Empire even before Rome's fall, mainly owing to the larger urban centers and
Greek legacy
in the East. [141]
Indeed, long before the fall of Rome, Greek had become the common language in the
Church , the language of scholarship and the arts, and, to a large degree, the lingua franca for trade between provinces and with other nations. The language itself for a time gained a
dual nature
with the primary spoken language,
Koine Greek , existing alongside the literary language, a variant of the ancient
Attic Greek
dialect. [142]
Koine gradually evolve into what became known as
Medieval
or Byzantine Greek, the Empire's standard dialect.
Even by the end of the reign of Justinian I it had become clear that, with Western provinces in ruins, Latin's importance in the Empire was rapidly declining. Nevertheless for many centuries Latin continued to be used for some official purposes largely for historical/sentimental reasons even as it lost any practical usage. Indeed the last coins with Latin inscriptions were minted in the 11th century and the
Byzantine army
is known to have used Latin commands and terminology late in the Middle Ages as well.
Many other languages existed in the multi-ethnic Empire as well, and some of these were given limited official status in their provinces at various times. Notably, by the beginning of the Middle Ages,
Syriac
and
Aramaic
had become more widely used by the educated classes in the far eastern provinces. [143]
Similarly
Coptic ,
Armenian , and
Georgian
became significant among the educated in
Egypt ,
Armenia , and
Georgia
respectively. Later the incursions by the Slavs into the
Balkans
starting in the
6th century
CE and the eventual incorporation of the Slavs into Orthodox Christianity made the
Slavonic languages
important in the Empire and its sphere of influence. Similarly
Arabic
would become important in the Empire as succeeding
Arab Caliphates
overtook Byzantine lands from the
7th century
CE onward.
Aside from these, since Constantinople and other cities in the Empire were prime trading and manufacturing centers for Europe, Asia, and North Africa, virtually every known language of the Middle Ages was spoken in the Empire at some time. During the late stages of the empire, having lost most of its territory and facing diminishing outside trade, the Empire's citizens became more culturally homogeneous and the Greek language became synonymous with their identity and their
Christian religion .
Legacy Edit
As the only stable long-term state in Europe during the Middle Ages, Byzantium protected Western Europe from many destructive forces farther to the East. Constantly under attack, it shielded Western Europe from Persians, Arabs, Seljuk Turks, and for a time, the Ottomans. The Byzantine-Arab Wars, for example, are recognized by some historians as being a key factor behind the rise of
Charlemagne , [144]
and a huge stimulus to
feudalism
and
economic self-sufficiency .
For centuries, Western historians have used the terms
Byzantine
and
Byzantinism
as bywords for decadence and incomprehensibility, and there was a negative assessment of Byzantine civilization and its legacy in
Southeastern Europe . [145]
Byzantinism
in general was defined as a body of religious, political, and philosophical ideas which ran contrary to those of the West. [146]
The 20th and 21st centuries, however, have seen attempts by historians in the West to understand the Empire in a more balanced and accurate fashion, and as a result the complex character of Byzantine culture has received more attention and a more objective treatment than previously. [146]
See also Edit
List of Byzantine Empire-related topics
Footnotes Edit
^
Moravcsik (1970), 11-12
^
Fox,
What, If Anything, Is a Byzantine?
^
a
b
c
d
"Hellas, Byzantium".
Encyclopaedia The Helios .
^
Bury (1923),
1 * Fenner,
Economic Factors
^
a
b
c
Bury (1923),
1
^
"Byzantine Empire".
Encyclopaedia Britannica .   * Gibbon (1906), II, {{PDFlink| 200 |2.61  MiB
^
Eusebius, IV,
lxii
^
Gibbon (1906), III, {{PDFlink| 168 |2.35  MiB
^
Bury (1923),
1 * Esler (2000), 1081
^
Esler (2000), 1081
^
Bury (1923),
25–26
^
Esler (2000), 1081 * Mousourakis (2003), 327–328
^
Bury (1923),
163
^
a
b
c
d
e
f
"Byzantine Empire".
Encyclopaedia Britannica .
^
Nathan,
Theodosius II (408-450 A.D.)
^
"Byzantine Empire".
Encyclopaedia Britannica .   * Evans,
Justinian (AD 527–565)
^
a
b
c
Evans,
Justinian (AD 527–565)
^
Bury (1923),
180–216
^
Bury (1923),
236–258
^
Bury (1923),
259–281
^
Bury (1923),
286–288
^
Procopius,
IX
^
Vasiliev,
The Legislative Work of Justinian and Tribonian
^
Vasiliev,
The Ecclesiastical Policy of Justinian
^
Foss (1975), 722
^
Haldon (1997), 41 * Speck (1984), 178.
^
Haldon (1997), 42-43
^
Grabar (1984), 37 * Cameron (1979), 23.
^
Cameron (1979), 5-6, 20-22
^
Haldon (1997), 46 * Baynes (1912),
passim * Speck (1984), 178
^
Foss (1975), 746-47.
^
Haldon (1997), 50
^
Shahid (1972), 295-96, 305.
^
Haldon (1997), 404
^
Haldon (1997), 49-50
^
Haldon (1997), 61-62
^
Haldon (1997), 102-14.
^
Haldon (1997), 208-15 * Kaegi (2003), 236, 283.
^
Haldon (1997), 43-45, 66, 114-15.
^
Haldon (1997), 66-67.
^
Haldon (1997), 71.
^
Haldon (1997), 115-16.
^
Haldon (1997), 56-59.
^
Haldon (1997), 59-61.
^
Haldon (1997), 53, 61, 68-69, 74.
^
Haldon (1997), 70-78, 169-71 * Haldon (2004), 216-217 * Kountoura-Galake (1996), 62-75
^
Cameron (1992)
^
Kitzinger (1976), 195
^
Haldon (1997), 251.
^
"Byzantine Empire".
Encyclopaedia Britannica .   *
"Hellas, Byzantium".
Encyclopaedia The Helios .
^
Garland (1996), 89
^
Parry (1996), 11–15
^
a
b
c
d
e
f
g
h
Norwich (1998)
^
Treadgold (1991)
^
Angold (1997)
^
Treadgold (1997), 548–549
^
a
b
Markham,
The Battle of Manzikert
^
Vasiliev,
Relations with Italy and Western Europe
^
"Byzantine Empire".
Encyclopaedia Britannica . 2002.   * Markham,
The Battle of Manzikert
^
Magdalino (2002), 124
^
Birkenmeier (2002)
^
Harris (2003) * Read (2003), 124 * Watson (1993), 12
^
Anna Komnene, X,
261
^
Anna Komnene, XI,
291
^
Anna Komnene, XIII,
348–358 * Birkenmeier (2002), 46
^
a
b
Garland (2006), 126 * Runciman (1982), 72
^
a
b
Stone,
John II Komnenos
^
Norwich (1998), 267
^
Ostrogorsky (1990), 377
^
Birkenmeier (2002), 90
^
"John II Komnenos".
Encyclopaedia Britannica .
^
Harris (2003), 84
^
Brooke (2004), 326
^
Magdalino (2002), 74 * Stone,
Manuel I Comnenus
^
Sedlar (1994), 372
^
Magdalino (2002), 67
^
Innocent III,
Letter to the Illustrious Emperor of Constantinople (no 121)
^
J.W. Birkenmeier (2002), 128
^
Birkenmeier (2002), 196
^
Birkenmeier (2002), 185–186
^
Birkenmeier (2002), 1
^
G.W. Day (1977), 289–290 * Harvey (1998)
^
Diehl,
Byzantine Art
^
Tatakes-Moutafakis (2003), 110
^
a
b
Vasiliev,
Foreign policy of the Angeloi
^
Norwich (1998), 291
^
a
b
Norwich (1998), 292
^
a
b
c
d
e
f
g
P. Magdalino (2002), 194
^
J.Harris,
Byzantium and the Crusades , 117
^
J.J. Norwich,
A short history of Byzantium , 291
^
J.Harris,
Byzantium and the Crusades , 118
^
Norwich (1998), 293
^
Norwich (1998), 294-295
^
Norwich (1998), 296
^
T. Madden,
Crusades , 85 * Norwich (1998), 297
^
Angold (1997) *
Paparrigopoulos (1925), Db, 216
^
Norwich (1998), 299
^
a
b
c
d
"The Fourth Crusade and the Latin Empire of Constantinople".
Encyclopaedia Britannica .
^
Britannica Concise,
Siege of Zara
^
Geoffrey of Villehardouin, 46
^
a
b
Norwich (1998), 301
^
Harris (2003) *
"The Fourth Crusade and the Latin Empire of Constantinople".
Encyclopaedia Britannica .
^
Innocent III,
Innocent III to the Marquis of Montferrat and the Counts of Flanders, Blois and St. Pol. (no 101)
^
Madden (2005), 110
^
Paparrigopoulos (1925), Db, 230
^
Choniates,
The Sack of Constantinople
^
Norwich (1998) *
"The Fourth Crusade and the Latin Empire of Constantinople".
Encyclopaedia Britannica .
^
Kean (2005) * Madden (2005), 162 * Lowe-Baker,
The Seljuks of Rum
^
Lowe-Baker,
The Seljuks of Rum
^
Madden (2005), 179 * Reinert (2002), 260
^
Reinert (2002), 257
^
Reinert (2002), 261
^
Reinert (2002), 268
^
Reinert (2002), 270
^
Runciman (1990), 71-72
^
a
b
Runciman (1990), 84-85
^
Runciman (1990), 84-86
^
Seton-Watson (1967), 31
^
Magdalino
in Laiou
(2002), {{PDFlink| 532 |519  KiB
^
Laiou (2002), {{PDFlink| 723 |463  KiB
^
Anastos (1962), 409
^
Robins (1993), 8
^
Tatakes-Moutafakis (2003), 189
^
"Medieval Sourcebook:
Corpus Iuris Civilis: The Digest and Codex: Marriage Laws",
Fordham University , retrieved 8 Nov., 2007 [1]
^
Troianos-Velissaropoulou (1997), 340
^
Raya,
The Byzantine Church and Culture
^
Meyendorff (1982), 13
^
Meyendorff (1982), 19
^
Meyendorff (1982), 130
^
"Byzantine Art".
Encyclopaedia Britannica .
^
Mango (1980), 233–4
^
"Byzantine Literature" .
Catholic Encyclopedia .
http://www.newadvent.org/cathen/03113a.htm .
^
Louth (2005), 291 * Neville (2004), 7
^
Neville (2004), 34
^
Neville (2004), 13
^
a
b
Neumann (2006), 869–871
^
Chrysos (1992), 35
^
Antonucci (1993), 11–13
^
Obolensky (1994), 3
^
Fergus Millar,
A Greek Roman Empire:
Power and Belief under Theodosius II (408-450) . Sather Classical Lectures, Vol. 64.
Berkeley:
University of California Press, 2006.
Pp. 279.
ISBN 0-520-24703-5
^
McDonnell/MacDonnell,
Roman Manliness: Virtus and the Roman Republic
^
Greek Language , Encyclopedia Britannica [2]
^
Versteegh, Cornelis H. M.,
Greek Elements in Arabic Linguistic Thinking , E. J. Brill, 1977, Chapter 1.
^
Pirenne, Henri
Mediaeval Cities: Their Origins and the Rivival of Trade
(Princeton, NJ, 1925).
ISBN 0691007608
See also
Mohammed and Charlemagne
(London 1939) Dover Publications (2001).
ISBN 0-486-42011-6 .
^
Angelov (2001), 1
^
a
b
Angelov (2001), 7-8
References Edit
Primary sources Edit
Anna Komnene .
"Books X-XIII" .
The Alexiad
translated by Elizabeth A. S. Dawes . Medieval Sourcebook .
http://www.fordham.edu/halsall/basis/annacomnena-alexiad00.html#INTRODUCTION .
Choniates, Nicetas
(1912). "The Sack of Constantinople (1204)".
Translations and Reprints from the Original Sources of European History by D.C. Munro (Series 1, Vol 3:1) . Philadeplphia: University of Pennsylvania Press. pp. 15–16.
Eusebius .
Life of Constantine (Book IV) .
Christian Classics Ethereal Library .
http://www.ccel.org/ccel/schaff/npnf201.iv.vi.i.i.html .
Geoffrey of Villehardouin
(1963). "The Conquest of Constantinople".
Chronicles of the Crusades (translated by Margaret R. Shaw) . Penguin Classics.
ISBN   0-140-44124-7 .
Innocent III
(1993). Othmar Hageneder, Christoph Egger, Karl Rudolf, and Andrea Sommerlechner. ed.
Die Register Innocenz' III. 5: 5. Pontifikatsjahr, 1202/1203, Texte . Wien: Verlag der Österreichischen Akademie der Wissenschaften: Publikationen des Historischen Instituts beim Österreichischen Kulturinstitut in Rom.
Innocent III (1995). Othmar Hageneder, John C. Moore Andrea Sommerlechner, Christoph Egger and Herwig Weigl. ed.
Die Register Innocenz' III. 6: 6. Pontifikatsjahr, 1202/1203, Texte . Wien: Verlag der Österreichischen Akademie der Wissenschaften: Publikationen des Historischen Instituts beim Österreichischen Kulturinstitut in Rom.
Procopius
(1935).
Secret History (translated by H. B. Dewing) . Loeb Classical Library .
http://penelope.uchicago.edu/Thayer/E/Roman/Texts/Procopius/Anecdota/home.html .
Secondary sources Edit
Anastos, Milton V. (1962). " The History of Byzantine Science. Report on the Dumbarton Oaks Symposium of 1961 ".
Dumbarton Oaks Papers
16 : 409-411.
DOI : 10.2307/1291170 .
ISSN
0070-7546 . Retrieved on 2007-05-27.
Angelov, Dimiter G. (February 2001). " The Making of Byzantinism ": 1-10. Retrieved on 2007-06-07.
Angold, Michael (1997).
The Byzantine Empire, 1025-1204 . Longman.
ISBN   0-582-29468-1 .
Antonucci, Michael (February 1993). " War by Other Means: The Legacy of Byzantium ".
History Today
43
(2): 11-13.
ISSN
0018-2753 . Retrieved on 2007-05-21.
Baynes, Norman H. (1912). "The restoration of the Cross at Jerusalem".
The English Historical Review
27
(106): 287-299.
ISSN
0013-8266 .
Birkenmeier, John W. (2002). "The Campaigns of Manuel I Komnenos".
The Development of the Komnenian Army: 1081–1180 . Brill Academic Publishers.
ISBN   9-004-11710-5 .
Brooke, Zachary Nugent (2004). "East and West:1155–1198".
A History of Europe, from 911 to 1198 . Routledge (UK).
ISBN   0-415-22126-9 .
Bury, John Bagnall
(1923).
History of the Later Roman Empire . Macmillan & Co., Ltd. .
http://penelope.uchicago.edu/Thayer/E/Roman/Texts/secondary/BURLAT/home.html .
"Byzantine Art".
Encyclopaedia Britannica . 2002.
"Byzantine Empire".
Encyclopaedia Britannica . 2002.
"Byzantine Literature" .
Catholic Encyclopedia . 1908 .
http://www.newadvent.org/cathen/03113a.htm .
Cameron, Averil (1979). "Images of authority: elites and icons in late sixth-century Byzantium".
Past and Present
84 : 3-35.
Cameron, Averil (1992). "New themes and styles in Greek literature, 7th and 8th centuries". In Averil Cameron and Lawrence I. Conrad.
The Byzantine and Islamic Early Near East I: Problems in the Literary Source Material . Darwin Press.
ISBN   0878500804 .
Chrysos, Evangelos (1992). "Byzantine Diplomacy, AD 300–800: Means and End". In Jonathan Shepard, Simon Franklin.
Byzantine Diplomacy: Papers from the Twenty-Fourth Spring Symposium of Byzantine Studies, Cambridge, March 1990 (Society for the Promotion of Byzant) . Variorum.
ISBN   0-860-78338-3 .
Day, Gerald W.. " Manuel and the Genoese: A Reappraisal of Byzantine Commercial Policy in the Late Twelfth Century ".
The Journal of Economic History
37
(2): 289-301. Retrieved on 2007-09-22.
Diehl, Charles.
"Manuel I Comnenus (AD 1143–1180)" .
Byzantium, An Introduction to East Roman Civilization . Myriobiblos - Library .
http://www.myriobiblos.gr/texts/english/diel.html . Retrieved 2007-05-18 .
Esler, Philip Francis (2000). "Constantine and the Empire".
The Early Christian World . Routledge.
ISBN   0-415-33312-1 .
Evans, James Allan.
"Justinian (AD 527–565)" . Online Encyclopedia of Roman Emperors .
http://www.roman-emperors.org/justinia.htm . Retrieved 2007-05-19 .
Fenner, Julian.
"To What Extent Were Economic Factors to Blame for the Deterioration of the Roman Empire in the Third Century A.D?" . The Romans .
http://www.roman-empire.net/articles/article-018.html . Retrieved 2007-05-25 .
Foss, Clive (1975). "The Persians in Asia Minor and the End of Antiquity".
The English Historical Review
90 : 721-47.
Fox, Clifton R.
"What, if Anything, Is a Byzantine" . Online Encyclopedia of Roman Emperors .
http://www.romanity.org/htm/fox.01.en.what_if_anything_is_a_byzantine.01.htm . Retrieved 2007-05-25 .
Garland, Lynda (1999).
Byzantine Empresses: Women and Power in Byzantium, AD 527–1204 . Routledge.
ISBN   0415146887 .
Garland, Linda (2006). "Middle Byzantine Family Values and Anna Komnene's Alexiad".
Byzantine Women: Varieties of Experience 800–1200 . Ashgate Publishing, Ltd..
ISBN   0-754-65737-X .
Gibbon, Edward
(1906). J.B. Bury (with an Introduction by W.E.H. Lecky). ed.
The Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire (Volumes II, III, and IX) . New York: Fred de Fau and Co. .
http://oll.libertyfund.org/Home3/Set.php?recordID=0214#vol01 .
Grabar, André (1984).
L'iconoclasme Byzantin: le dossier archéologique . Flammarion.
ISBN   2-08-081634-9 .
Haldon, John (2002).
Byzantium: A History . Tempus.
ISBN   0-7524-2343-6 .
Haldon, John (1997).
Byzantium in the seventh century: the transformation of a culture . Cambridge.
ISBN   0-521-31917-X .
Haldon, John (2003).
Byzantium at War 600 - 1453 . Routledge.
ISBN   0-415-96861-5 .
Haldon, John (2004). "The fate of the late Roman senatorial elite: extinction or transformation?". In John Haldon and Lawrence I. Conrad.
The Byzantine and Early Islamic Near East VI: Elites old and new in the Byzantine and early Islamic Near East . Darwin Press.
ISBN   0-87850-144-4 .
Harris, Jonathan (2003).
Byzantium and the Crusades . Hambledon and London.
ISBN   1-85285-298-4 .
Harvey, Alan (1989).
Economic Expansion in the Byzantine Empire, 900–1200 . Cambridge University Press.
ISBN   0-521-37151-1 .
"Hellas, Byzantium" (in Greek).
Encyclopaedia The Helios . 1952.
Herrin, Judith (2007).
Byzantium: The Surprising Life of a Medieval Empire . Princeton University Press.
ISBN   0691131511 .
Hooker, Richard.
"The Byzantine Empire" .
http://www.wsu.edu/~dee/MA/BYZ.HTM . Retrieved 2007-06-07 .
Jenkins, Romilly (1987). "Heraclius".
Byzantium: The ImperialCenturies, AD 610–1071 . University of Toronto Press.
ISBN   0-802-06667-4 .
"John II Komnenos".
Encyclopaedia Britannica . 2002.
Kaegi, Walter Emil (2003).
Heraclius, Emperor of Byzantium . Cambridge.
ISBN   0521814596 .
Kean, Roger Michael (2005).
Forgotten Power . Thalamus Publishing.
ISBN   1-902-88607-0 .
Kitzinger, Ernst (1976). "Byzantine Art in the Period between Justinian and Iconoclasm". In W.E. Kleinbauer.
The Art of Byzantium and the Medieval West: Selected Studies . Indiana University.
ISBN   0-253-31055-5 .
Kountoura-Galake, Eleonora (1996) (in Greek).
The Byzantine Clergy and the Society of "Dark Ages" . Institute of Byzantine Research.
ISBN   9-789-60709-446-9 .
Laiou, Angeliki E. (2002).
"Exchange and Trade, Seventh-Twelfth Centuries" . In Angeliki E. Laiou.
The Economic History of Byzantium (Volume 2) . Dumbarton Oaks .
http://www.doaks.org/EHB.html .
Laiou, Angeliki E. (2002).
"Writing the Economic History of Byzantium" . In Angeliki E. Laiou.
The Economic History of Byzantium (Volume 1) . Dumbarton Oaks .
http://www.doaks.org/EHB.html .
Louth, Andrew (2005). "The Byzantine Empire in the Seventh Century". In Paul Fouracre.
The New Cambridge Medieval History (Volume I) . Cambridge University Press.
ISBN   0-521-36291-1 .
Lowe, Steven; Baker, Martin.
"The Seljuqs of Rum" .
http://www.geocities.com/egfroth1/Seljuqs.htm . Retrieved 2007-07-09 .
Madden, Thomas F. (2005).
Crusades: The Illustrated History . University of Michigan Press.
ISBN   0-472-03127-9 .
Magdalino, Paul (2002).
"Medieval Constantinople: Built Environment and Urban Development" . In Angeliki E. Laiou.
The Economic History of Byzantium (Volume 2) . Dumbarton Oaks .
http://www.doaks.org/EHB.html .
Magdalino, Paul (2002).
The Empire of Manuel I Komnenos, 1143–1180 . Cambridge University Press.
ISBN   0-521-52653-1 .
Mango, Cyril
(1980).
Byzantium: The Empire of the New Rome . Phoenix Press.
ISBN   1-89880-044-8 .
Markham, Paul.
"The Battle of Manzikert: Military Disaster or Political Failure?" .
http://www.deremilitari.org/resources/articles/markham.htm . Retrieved 2007-05-19 .
Matschke, Klaus-Peter (2002).
"Commerce, Trade, Markets, and Money: Thirteenth-Fifteenth Centuries" . In Angeliki E. Laiou.
The Economic History of Byzantium (Volume 2) . Dumbarton Oaks .
http://www.doaks.org/EHB.html .
Meyendorff, John
(1982).
The Byzantine Legacy in the Orthodox Church . St Vladimir's Seminary Press.
ISBN   0-913-83690-7 .
Moravcsik, Gyula (1970).
Byzantium and the Magyars . Hakkert.
Mousourakis, George (2003). "The Dominate".
The Historical and Institutional Context of Roman Law . Ashgate Publishing, Ltd..
ISBN   0-754-62114-6 .
Nathan, Geoffrey S..
"Roman Emperors: Theodosius II" .
http://www.roman-emperors.org/theo2.htm . Retrieved 2007-01-10 .
Neumann, Iver. B. (August 2006). " Sublime Diplomacy: Byzantine, Early Modern, Contemporary ".
Millennium: Journal of International Studies
34
(3): 865–888.
ISSN
1569-2981 . Retrieved on 2007-05-21.
Neubecker, Ottfried (1997).
Heraldry: Sources, Symbols and Meaning . Time Warner Books UK.
ISBN   0-316-64141-3 .
Neville, Leonora (2004). "Imperial Administration and Byzantine Political Culture".
Authority in Byzantine Provincial Society, 950–1100 . Cambridge University Press.
ISBN   0-521-83865-7 .
Norwich, John Julius (1998).
A Short History of Byzantium . Penguin.
ISBN   0-14-025960-0 .
Obolensky, Dimitri
(1994). "The Principles and Methods of Byzantine Diplomacy".
Byzantium and the Slavs . St Vladimir's Seminary Press.
ISBN   0-881-41008-X .
Ostrogorsky, Georg
(1969).
History of the Byzantine State . New Brunswick (NJ).
ISBN 0-8135-1198-4 .
Paparrigopoulos, Constantine ; Karolidis, Pavlos (1925) (in Greek).
History of the Hellenic Nation (Volume Db) . Eleftheroudakis.
Parry, Kenneth (1996). "Historical Introduction".
Depicting the Word: Byzantine Iconophile Thought of the Eighth and Ninth Centuries . Brill Academic Publishers.
ISBN   9-004-10502-6 .
Raya, Joseph .
"The Byzantine Church and Culture" .
http://rumkatkilise.org/rayabyzantium.htm#cooliris . Retrieved 2007-06-02 .
Read, Piers Paul
(2003—English edition 1999).
The Templars (translated in Greek by G. Kousounelou) . Enalios.
ISBN 9-605-36143-4 .
Reinert, Stephen W. (2002). "Fragmentation (1204-1453)". In Cyril Mango.
The Oxford History of Byzantium . Oxford University Press.
ISBN   0-19814-098-3 .
Robins, Robert Henry (1993).
The Byzantine Grammarians: Their Place in History . Walter de Gruyter.
ISBN   3-110-13574-4 .
Runciman, Steven (1982). "The Bogomils".
The Medieval Manichee: A Study of the Christian Dualist Heresy . Cambridge University Press.
ISBN   0-521-28926-2 .
Runciman, Steven (1990).
The Fall of Constantinople, 1453 . Cambridge University Press.
ISBN   0-521-39832-0 .
Ryan, Herbert J. (1993). "The Church in History". In Christopher Key Chapple, Thomas P. Rausch.
The College Student's Introduction to Theology . Liturgical Press.
ISBN   0-814-65841-5 .
Sedlar, Jean W. (1994). "Foreign Affairs".
East Central Europe in the Middle Ages, 1000–1500 . University of Washington Press.
ISBN   0-295-97290-4 .
Seton-Watson, Hugh (1967). "The Church".
The Russian Empire, 1801-1917 . Oxford University Press.
ISBN   0-198-22152-5 .
Shahid, Irfan (1972). "The Iranian factor in Byzantium during the reign of Heraclius".
Dumbarton Oaks Papers
26 : 293-320.
Speck, Paul (1984). "Ikonoklasmus und die Anfänge der Makedonischen Renaissance".
Varia 1 (Poikila Byzantina 4) . Rudolf Halbelt. pp. 175-210.
Stone, Andrew.
"John II Komnenos (AD 1118–1143)" . Online Encyclopedia of Roman Emperors .
http://www.roman-emperors.org/johncomn.htm . Retrieved 2007-05-18 .
Stone, Andrew.
"Manuel I Komnenos (AD 1143–1180)" . Online Encyclopedia of Roman Emperors .
http://www.roman-emperors.org/mannycom.htm . Retrieved 2007-02-05 .
"Siege of Zara" .
Encyclopaedia Britannica Concise .
http://concise.britannica.com/ebc/article-9383275/Siege-of-Zara . Retrieved 2007-05-18 .
Tatakes, Vasileios N.; Moutafakis, Nicholas J. (2003).
Byzantine Philosophy . Hackett Publishing.
ISBN   0-872-20563-0 .
"The Fourth Crusade and the Latin Empire of Constantinople".
Encyclopaedia Britannica . 2002.
Treadgold, Warren (1997).
A History of the Byzantine State and Society . Stanford University Press.
ISBN   0-804-72630-2 .
Treadgold, Warren (1991).
The Byzantine Revival, 780-842 . Stanford University Press.
ISBN   0-804-71896-2 .
Troianos, Spyros; Velissaropoulou-Karakosta, Julia (1997). "Byzantine Law".
History of Law . Ant.N. Sakkoulas Publishers.
ISBN   9-602-32594-1 .
Vasiliev, Alexander Alexandrovich
(1928–1935).
"Byzantium and the Crusades" .
History of the Byzantine Empire .
http://www.intratext.com/X/ENG0832.HTM .
Watson, Bruce Allen (1993). "Jerusalem 1099".
Sieges: A Comparative Study . Praeger/Greenwood.
ISBN   0-275-94034-9 .
Further reading Edit
Ahrweiler, Helene "Studies on the Internal Diaspora of the Byzantine Empire", Harvard University Press, 1998.
Ahrweiler, Helene
Les Europeens , Herman (Paris), 2000.
Haldon, John (2001).
The Byzantine Wars: Battles and Campaigns of the Byzantine Era .
ISBN 0-7524-1795-9 .
J.M. Hussey,
The Cambridge Medieval History, Volume IV — The Byzantine Empire Part I, Byzantium and its Neighbors , Cambridge University Press 1966.
Runciman, Steven
(1966).
Byzantine Civilisation . Edward Arnold (Publishers) Ltd..
ISBN 1-56619-574-8 .
Runciman, Steven (1990).
The Emperor Romanus Lecapenus and his Reign .
Toynbee, Arnold J. (1972).
Constantine Porphyrogenitus and His World . Oxford University Press.
ISBN 019215253X .
Treadgold, Warren (1991).
The Byzantine Revival 780–842 . Stanford University Press.
ISBN 0804718962 .
External links Edit
Wikimedia Commons has media related to:
Byzantine Empire
Constantinople Home Page . Extensive Select Resources on Byzantium. Texts, Images, Chant, Videos.
Byzantine studies homepage
at
Dumbarton Oaks . Includes links to numerous electronic texts.
Byzantium: Byzantine studies on the Internet . Links to various online resources.
De Imperatoribus Romanis . Scholarly biographies of many Roman and Byzantine emperors; not yet comprehensive.
Bibliography on Byzantine Material Culture and Daily Life . Hosted by the
University of Vienna ; in English.
Translations from Byzantine Sources: The Imperial Centuries, c. 700-1204 . Online sourcebook, maintained by Paul Stephenson.
De Re Militari . Resources for medieval military history, including numerous translated sources on the Byzantine wars.
Medieval sourcebook: Byzantium . Numerous primary sources on Byzantine history.
Ruminations on Romanisation in the East: Or, the Metanarrative in History
12 Byzantine Rulers
by Lars Brownworth of
The Stony Brook School ; audio lectures.
NYTimes review .
18 centuries of Roman Empire by Howard Wiseman
(Maps of the Roman/Byzantine Empire throughout its lifetime)
Byzantine Glory — the mosaic of Byzantine History and Culture
v   •   d   •   e
Ancient Rome
Outline
Timeline Epochs
Foundation
Monarchy
Republic
Empire
( Timeline )
( Principate
and
Dominate )
Decline
Fall
Western Empire
/
Eastern Empire Constitution
History
Constitution
the Kingdom
the Republic
the Empire
the Late Empire
Senate
Legislative assemblies
Curiate
Century
Tribal
Plebeian
Executive magistrates Government
Curia
Forum
Cursus honorum
Collegiality
Emperor
Legatus
Dux
Officium
Praefectus
Vicarius
Vigintisexviri
Lictor
Magister militum
Imperator
Princeps senatus
Pontifex Maximus
Augustus
Caesar
Tetrarch
Optimates
Populares
Province Magistrates
Ordinary
Tribune
Quaestor
Aedile
Praetor
Consul
Censor
Promagistrate
Governor
Extraordinary
Dictator
Magister Equitum
Decemviri
Consular Tribune
Triumvir
Rex
Interrex Law
Twelve Tables
Mos maiorum
Roman citizenship
Auctoritas
Imperium
Status
Litigation Military
Borders
Establishment
Structure
Campaigns
Political control
Strategy
Engineering
Frontiers and fortifications
( Castra )
Technology
Army
Legion
Infantry tactics
Personal equipment
Siege engines
Navy
Fleet
Auxiliaries
Decorations and punishments
Hippika gymnasia Economy
Agriculture
Deforestation
Commerce
Finance
Currency
Republican currency
Imperial currency
SPQR Technology
Abacus
Numerals
Civil engineering
Military engineering
Military technology
Aqueducts
Bridges
Circus
Concrete
Forum
Metallurgy
Roads
Sanitation
Thermae Culture
Architecture
Art
Bathing
Calendar
Clothing
Cosmetics
Cuisine
Hairstyles
Education
Literature
Music
Mythology
Religion
Romanization
Sexuality
Theatre
Wine Society
Patricians
Plebs
Conflict of the Orders
Secessio plebis
Equestrian order
Gens
Tribes
Naming conventions
Women
Marriage
Slavery
Bagaudae Language (Latin)
Latin alphabet
History
Romance languages
Versions
Old
Classical
Vulgar
Late
Medieval
Renaissance
New
Contemporary
Ecclesiastical Writers
Apuleius
Caesar
Catullus
Cicero
Ennius
Horace
Juvenal
Livy
Lucan
Lucretius
Martial
Ovid
Petronius
Plautus
Pliny the Elder
Pliny the Younger
Propertius
Quintilian
Sallust
Seneca
Statius
Suetonius
Tacitus
Terence
Tibullus
Varro
Virgil
Vitruvius Lists
Wars
Battles
Generals
Legions
Emperors
Geographers
Institutions
Laws
Consuls
Distinguished women Major cities
Alexandria
Antioch
Carthage
Constantinople
Londinium
Mediolanum
Pompeii
Ravenna
Rome
Smyrna
Portal
v   •   d   •   e
European Middle Ages by region Medieval histories of current political units
Western and Northern Europe
Corsica
Denmark
France
Germany
Italy
Scotland
Spain
Sweden Central, Eastern Europe and Near East
Croatia
Hungary
Czech lands
Greece ( Byzantine
and
Ottoman )
Poland
Romania
Armenia
Bosnia
Serbia
( Kosovo ) Medieval territories
Western and Northern Europe
Frankish Empire
Holy Roman Empire
( Kingdom of Bohemia ,
Kingdom of Italy ,
Swiss Confederacy )
Papal States
Kingdom of Sicily
Kingdom of Naples
Duchy of Burgundy
( Burgundian Netherlands )
Kingdom of Aragon
Portugal ( County
and
Kingdom of Portugal )
Kingdom of England
Kingdom of Scotland
Lordship of Ireland
al-Andalus
( Caliphate of Córdoba ,
Taifa ,
Almoravids )
Hereditary Kingdom of Norway Central, Eastern Europe and Near East
Byzantine Empire
Bulgarian Empire
( First Empire ,
Second Empire )
Croatia ( Dalmatia ,
Pannonia ,
Kingdom of Croatia )
Crusader states
( Cyprus ,
Jerusalem )
Kingdom of Bosnia
Duchy of Saint Sava
Russia ( Rus' Khaganate ,
Kievan Rus' ,
Ryazan ,
Novgorod Republic ,
Moscow )
Serbia ( Principality ,
Grand Principality ,
Kingdom ,
Empire ,
Lordship ,
Despotate )
v   •   d   •   e
History of Anatolia
This page uses content from the
English
language
Wikipedia . The original content was at
Byzantine Empire ‎ . The list of authors can be seen in the
page history . As with this Familypedia wiki, the content of Wikipedia is available under the
Creative Commons License .
Retrieved from " http://familypedia.wikia.com/wiki/Byzantine_Empire?oldid=786266 "
Related Categories
Categories :
Former monarchies of Europe Former countries in Europe Former empires Pages with broken file links Byzantine Empire Former empires of Asia Former countries in the Balkans Former empires of Europe Greek culture History of Syria History of Greece History of Turkey Roman Empire Hidden category:
Valid name- nation
Facts about " Byzantine Empire " RDF feed
Definite article true
+
Around Wikia's network
Random Wiki
Lifestyle
About
Help
Community Central
Careers
Advertise
API
Contact Wikia
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Global Sitemap
Content is available under
CC-BY-SA .
Lifestyle
Entertainment
Video Games