NEWS | BICOL-MAN | "Be Cool Man" | Page 12
Home Local History The Bicol Martyrs of 1896 revisited The Imperials in Bicol History (Part I) The Imperials in Bicol History (Part II) The Imperials in Bicol History (Part III) The Imperials in Bicol History (Last of the Series) The Bicol Region History Demographic Profile Infrastructure & Utilities Land Use Physical Environment Environmental Management Industry Development Areas Urbanization & Settlement Bicol Map NEWS Bikol Literature Bikol literature in the Philippines Writers see rebirth of Bicol literature Investment Language The Bikol Language Basic Bikol Words/Phrases Bikol Numbers Tourist Spots Bikol Tourist Spots 1 Bikol Tourist Spots 2 Bikol Tourist Spots 3 Personalities Government & Politics Entertainment/Cinema Sports Media/Arts/Literature Singers/Musicians/Composers Business/Philanthropist Scientists Military Religious Bicolana Beauties Photos & Videos Videos – Bikol Songs Photos – Delicacies Videos – Mayon Eruptions More… Sports Weather Outlook
BICOL-MAN
"Be Cool Man"
300–Year Old Image of Ina Resurfaces at Tercentenary Rites
Leave a comment
Posted by
Saminovic
on
September 19, 2010
Source: Sonny Sales |
Vox Bikol
NAGA CITY (11 Sept) – After being kept from the public for decades, the 300 year-old original image of
Our Lady of Peñafrancia
carved by a Chinese artisan during the
Spanish
colonial years in
Naga
in 1709, was again shown to devotees during the Traslacion Mass last September 10.
The icon was venerated during the mass after the “Traslacion” procession on Friday which marked the start the week-long religious rites of the 300th year “Tercentenary celebration” of the Patroness of Bikolandia.
Tercentenary Celebration Executive Secretary, Fr. Andrew G. Recepcion, earlier told Vox Bikol that for the Tercentenary thanksgiving mass, the 300-year old image will be carried by six priests and six laymen during the rite at the Porta Mariae and at the Quadricentennial Arch.
Since the image was stolen in 1976 and was subsequently recovered some months later, replicas of the venerated icon were used in the succeeding fiestas.
Reportedly, only the replicas are now being used in the yearly festivities of the Peñafrancia, while the original icon is kept hidden in a chapel inside the Peñafrancia Basilica.
Considered a priceless religious icon made in 1709, the old Virgen de Peñafrancia image in Naga is considered the oldest Marian image after the original
Nuestra Señora
de Peñafrancia in Salamanca, Spain was destroyed in a fire.
Fr. Recepcion also said that the start of the Peñafrancia celebrations will be participated by some 50 bishops from the
Catholic Bishops Conference of the Philippines
(CBCP), Australia, the Caribbean, and from the dioceses of the Bikol region.
Meanwhile over 100,000 people was expected to crowd Naga’s city streets for Friday’s “Traslacion” Procession which started around 2:00 PM from Plaza de Covarrubias of the old Peñafrancia Shrine, and proceeded to the Naga Cathedral via Peñafrancia Ave.
Around 20,000 devotees converged at the Cathedral grounds, where
Manila Archbishop ,
Gaudencio Cardinal Rosales , and Bicol Bishops led the celebration of the thanksgiving mass.
Friday’s “Traslacion procession” transferred the Peñafrancia image from the old shrine to the Naga Cathedral where it will be visited by an estimated one million devotees.
On September 18, the Fluvial Procession in which the image returns to the
Peñafrancia Basilica Minore
will be highlighted by the
Pontifical Mass
celebrated by the
Vatican ‘s representative, the Papal Nuncio Archbishop Edward Joseph Adams.
Cam Sur ,
Peñaftancia ,
Religion
Australia ,
Catholic Bishops Conference of the Philippines ,
Catholic Church ,
fluvial ,
fluvial procession ,
Gaudencio Rosales ,
Naga City ,
Our Lady of Peñafrancia ,
Peñafrancia ,
Peñafrancia Basilica ,
procession ,
Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Manila ,
traslacion
Bicol marks 300 years of devotion to Peñafrancia
Leave a comment
Posted by
Saminovic
on
September 15, 2010
Shiena M. Barrameda and Paul John F. Barrosa, Inquirer Southern Luzon /
Philippine Daily Inquirer
NAGA CITY, Philippines –About three million devotees, pilgrims and tourists converged on the main streets of this city to celebrate 300 years of devotion to the
Our Lady of Peñafrancia , in a procession called “traslacion” here on Friday.
The traslacion traditionally marks the start of the Peñafrancia novenary. Starting this Monday until Sept. 19, Masses will be said at the Naga Metropolitan Cathedral.
Throngs of people surrounded the image of the Virgin, called Ina (Mother) by Bicolanos, as she journeyed from the Basilica Shrine to the Metropolitan Cathedral.
Among the guests were Rev. Fr.
Gaudencio Cardinal Rosales ,
archbishop of Manila , and
Bicol -born Rev. Fr.
Adolfo Tito Yllana , Nuncio to Pakistan.
“This year’s celebration is grander than the years before,” Sorsogon Archbishop Arturo Bastes, a regular attendee of the feast, commented. “But the faith and devotion to Ina is still the same.”
This year’s theme, “Balaog na Inako, Balaog na Itao (Gift Received, Gift Shared),” centers on the gift of devotion to the Bicol Patroness that dates back 300 years ago from Fr. Miguel de Cobarrubias of Ciudad de
Nueva Caceres
(old name of
Naga City ).
Cobarrubias founded the Basilica Minore in commemoration of the Virgin to whom he owed his second life after a miraculous healing when he was a young seminarian.
A group of Polish Theology teachers based in
Albay
came to the city to see the much-awaited tercentenary celebrations. Although they refused to divulge their names, the Catholic foreign visitors admitted that they believe in the miraculous patroness.
“We have a lot of petitions ourselves,” they said.
Balikbayans also come to Naga to witness the once-in-a-lifetime tercentenary Peñafrancia celebration after many years of absence.
“Well, I came home to show Ina how much I appreciate the blessings I have received from Her through the years,” Pilar Barrameda, an overseas worker who has made the rounds of Taiwan
, South Korea, and now, Cyprus in almost 11 years, said, “I can’t deny Her presence in my life as a Bicolana. I attribute much of what my family and I have now to Her.”
The Virgin of Peñafrancia has been noted for miracles attributed to Her, the latest of which is the reported complete healing of Caceres Archbishop Leonardo Z. Legazpi from
lung cancer .
“I believe that She really is the one who healed the archbishop,” Bastes said.
During the Homily of the Pontifical Mass said after the traslacion this year, the now-healthy Legazpi discussed the bond of Ina with the Bicolanos.
“It is almost impossible to speak of Bicol without referring to Ina,” Legazpi told the devotees gathered in the Metropolitan Cathedral Patio. “To be a Bicolano is to be Her son or daughter.”
Cam Sur ,
Naga City ,
Peñafrancia ,
Peñaftancia ,
Religion ,
Tourism
Adolfo Tito Yllana ,
Albay ,
Asia ,
Bicol Region ,
Bicolanos ,
Naga City ,
Our Lady of Peñafrancia ,
Philippines
Police Force Beefed Up for Peñafrancia Tercentenary
Comments Off
on Police Force Beefed Up for Peñafrancia Tercentenary
Posted by
Saminovic
on
September 15, 2010
Source: Sonny Sales –
Vox Bikol
NAGA CITY (4 Sept)-MORE THAN 400 policemen who are mostly rookies and have newly graduated from the Public Safety Basic Recruitment Training at Camp Simeon Ola in
Legazpi City
will augment the current Naga Police force of some 200-man strong for the 20-day Tercentenary celebration of the Peñafrancia devotion this year.
Spokesman of the
Camarines Sur
Police Office, SPO4 Romulo Pabiano, said that with the scheduled big religious rites of the “Peñafrancia Tercentenary,”
Catholic
bishops, clerics from all over the country, and Pope’s emissaries from the Vatican are expected to come to this year’s Peñafrancia festivities.
Pabiano said that Camarine Sur Police Director Sr. Supt. Jonathan Ablang has directed a separate force of a 42-man
police
team from the Provincial Police Office (PPO) to secure visiting Church dignitaries and ranking government officials.
Reportedly, the PPO has been advised that Vice-President Jejomar Binay will visit
Naga City
to attend the more significant Peñafrancia activities next week.
The spokesman also added that the PPO is fielding motor-assistance centers with Safety Management Units from
Del Gallego
to
Bato , Camarines Sur, and also in the boundary of Sangay, Camarines Sur and
Tiwi ,
Albay .
At the Naga Police Office, newly installed police director Sr. Supt. Vert Chavez confirmed the arrival of an initial 200-man force in Naga City which was now fielded in major commercial districts of the city.
Chavez said with the deployment of the total 600 policemen, the cops will have two shifts in their duties.
He added that after the Traslacion, a new traffic scheme for the Peñafrancia week will also be implemented by the PNP and the City’s Public Safety Office.
During a command conference with the Naga police, Chavez declared that “securing the 300th year Peñafrancia celebration will be a big challenge for the Naga PNP” with the local population and visiting devotees expected to swell by more than two million during the Peñafrancia week.
Chavez also said that the Naga PNP Intelligence with the help of force multipliers in the barangays has been alerted of organized crime groups coming into the city, with recent apprehensions of pick-pocket and snatcher gangs from Albay and
Metro Manila .
Meanwhile, the police augmentation force are also to secure major venues of the Tercentenary rites such as the Naga Cathedral grounds, the Archbishop’s Palace, the Peñafrancia Basilica and Shrine, as well as the posh hotels and lodging-inns were visitors will be billeted.
PPO spokesman SPO4 Pabiano also noted that augmentation units have been provided with their police subsistence allowance pay of P 2,700 for meals during the Peñafrancia duties; nonetheless, Naga Mayor John Bongat is reportedly expected to assure the City’s contribution for the huge meal requirements of the gigantic police force.
Religion
Albay ,
Asia ,
Camarines Sur ,
Legazpi City ,
Metro Manila ,
Naga City ,
Philippines ,
Police
2010 FIBA world basketball championship successfully concluded; Team USA tops the competition
Leave a comment
Posted by
Saminovic
on
September 14, 2010
After
16 years, the
United States
emerged once again with the
gold medal
in
the recently concluded 2010
FIBA
World Basketball Championships
held in
Turkey . Team USA beat Turkey 81-64 in the finals.
Thanks to
Kevin Durant ‘s
heads up play and Hedo Torkuglo’s knee injury suffered in the very
first quarter, the USA team ended the team’s gold medal drought since
1994 in this tournament.
FIBA announced this edition of the world championship as the most successful championship ever.
Mike
Kryzewski
(USA head coach) had this to say on Kevin Durant: “He
elevated. He was on a pretty high floor already but he
went close to
being in the penthouse. The beauty about Kevin is he’s
pure. He’s not
trying to do anything except play basketball and get
better. I love
coaching him and he learned how to be a really great
international
player in the last five weeks which will help him be an
even better
NBA
player. He’s very genuine. He’s a special guy and
definitely a special player.”
Sports
Basketball ,
Coaching ,
FIBA World Championship ,
Kevin Durant ,
Mike Krzyzewski ,
National Basketball Association ,
Sports ,
United States
Noted Bicolano Personalities, or with Bicol Roots
1 Comment
Posted by
Saminovic
on
September 12, 2010
Aga Mulach – Actor, model
Amalia Fuentes – Sorsogon –	Actress
Anjo Yllana – Camalig,
Albay – Actor, TV Host
Anna Dizon – Catanduanes – Singer, Businesswoman
Baba Parma – Daraga, Albay	– Fashion, Commercial & Ramp model, PMAP member
Bembol Roco –
Naga City
– Actor
Benedict A. Villamora – Naga City – model, Ginoong
Filipinas -Mindanao
Bob Soler	– Legaspi City – Actor
Bong Villafuerte – Camarines Sur – Action star, Governor
Bro. Mike Velarde – Catanduanes – Tele-evangelist, Founder-El Shadai
Catholic Charismatic Renewal
Movement
Celia Rodriguez – Albay – Actress
Christopher Cantonjos – Sorsogon – PBA player
Cindy Kurleto – Camarines Sur – Actress, VJ, TV Host, Commercial, Print & Model
Conrado de Quiros – Catanduanes – Writer & Columnist, PDI
Dina Bonnevie –
Legazpi City
– Actress, Beauty Queen, Model
Eddie Garcia – Sorsogon – Actor, Commercial Model
Eddie Ilarde – Iriga City – Senator, TV Host, Radio Announcer
Eddie Rodriguez – Camarines Norte – Actor
Edna Diaz – Legazpi City – Actress, Model
Elizabeth Oropesa – Guinobatan, Albay	– Actress, model
Ely Buendia – Naga City – lead
vocalist
of Pupil, Eraserheads
Emmanuel Mago – Albay – Basketball player, model and Mr.
Philippines -World
Enchong Dee – Naga City – Actor, Swimmer
Fr. Jessel Gonzales, SJ – Albay – Composer, Musician, Catholic Priest
Fr. Nolan A. Que – Legazpi City – Radio & TV Host, Catholic Priest
Francis Escudero – Sorsogon – Senator
Francisco Tatad – Catanduanes – Senator
Gary Valenciano – Camalig, Albay – Singer, Concert artist, Actor, Model
Georgina Sandico – Legazpi City – Binibining Pilipinas-International
Gina Ritter – Legazpi City – Miss Philippines-Air 2002
Gregorio “Gringo” Honasan – Sorsogon – Senator
Henrietta Demetrio – Tabaco City –
Supreme Court
Judge
Imelda Papin – Camarines Sur – Singer/Recording Artist, Politician
Irene Cortes – former
Associate Justice of the Supreme Court of the Philippines ; First Female Dean of the UP College of Law
Isidro del Prado – Sorsogon – Asian Games Trackster/Middle Distance Runner
Jaime Fabregas – Iriga City – Actor
Jaime Garchitorena – Albay – Singer, Actor, Model
Jane Bañares – Legazpi City – Mutya ng Pilipinas-International 2009
Janelle Quintana Manahan –
actress
/ Best New Female Artist (19th Aliw Awards) nominee
Jayson Fernandez – Cam Norte – Lead vocalist of Rivermaya
Jeff Arcilla – Singer
Jericho Rosales – Naga City – Actor, Penshoppe Model, Commercial model
Joker Arroyo – Baao, Cam Sur – Senator
Jomari Yllana – Camalig, Albay – Actor, Bench Model
Jonalyn Viray – Albay – Singer (La Diva)
Joross Gamboa – Naga City – Actor, Starstruck runner-up
Jovit Moya – Masbate – Actor, Thespian, Military Colonel
Jude Michael – Albay – Singer/Recording Artist
Kristine Hermosa – Masbate – Actress, Commercial, Ramp & Print Ad model
Liezel Martinez – Sorsogon – Actress, TV Host
Lito Pimentel – Naga City – model,host, TV & movie Actor
Loida Nicolas-Lewis – Sorsogon – Fil-American billionaire, US Immigration Lawyer
Lou Bonnevie – Iriga City – Singer
Lucio Tan – Naga City – Business Tycoon
Ma. Venus Raj – Bato, Cam Sur – 2010 Miss Universe 4th Runner-up
Ma. Victoria Carpio-Bernido – Naga City – Physicist , 2010 Ramon Magsaysay Awardee (together with husband physicist Christopher Bernido),
Manuel Gaite – Baao Cam Sur – SEC Commissioner, former Deputy Executive Secretary-Presidential Management Staff
Marianne dela Riva – Legazpi City – Actress, Model
Maribeth Bichara – Ligao City – Dancer, Choreographer, TV Host
Melody Gersbach – Daraga, Albay – Bb. Pilipinas-International 2009, Restaurateur
Merlinda Carullo Bobis – contemporary Filipino writer and academic in Australia
Miguel White – Sorsogon – Olympic Silver medalist, Sprints
Mila Ocampo – Iriga City – Actress (mother of Snooky Serna)
Miles Poblete – Tabaco City – Singer, GMA Star Search Winner
Miriam Quiambao – Bacacay, Albay – Miss Universe First Runner-up, Model, TV Host, Actress, Fitness trainor, US Licensed Physical Therapist
Mon Lee – Naga City
Most Rev. Nestor Carino – Catholic Bishop, CBCP Secretary
Muriel Moral – Legazpi City – Binibining Pilipinas-Maja
Nora Aunor – Iriga City – Singer, Superstar actress
Paolo Clemente – Singer, TUX
Paquito Diaz – Albay – Actor
Pepe Pimentel – Naga City – TV Host, actor
Pepito Vera-Perez – Albay – Scion of Sampaguita Pictures, politician
Precious Lara Quigaman – Albay – Miss International 2005
Rafael Rosell – Albay – Actor, Bench Model
Randy Santiago – Singer, TV Host
Raul Roco – Naga City – Senator
Raymart Santiago – Actor
Rene Dio – Sorsogon – Powerlifter, Fitness Instructor
Rene Sarmiento – Catanduanes – COMELEC Commissioner
Rez Cortez – Iriga City – Actor
Ricky Lee – Cam Norte – Scriptwriter
Ricky Lo – Tabaco City – Columnist, TV Host
Roberto “Bubby’ Dacer – Publicist, PR Man
Robin Padilla – Cam Norte – Action Star, Commercial model
Rochelle Barrameda – Bacacay, Albay – Actress, model, Miss Teen-Philippines
Roderick Paulate – Legazpi City – Actor, Comedian
Rowell Santiago – Actor, Director
Rox Lee – Naga City – Filmmaker
Shalani Soledad – Baras, Catanduanes – Politician
Shawnaleh Brauner – Daraga, Albay – Mutya ng Pilipinas-Globe, Fashion Model
Sophia Moran – Camarines Sur – Actress
Stephanie Roco-Reese – Albay – Singer
Tabetha Jo Frick – Pasacao, Cam Sur – Beauty queen
Tecla San Andres-Ziga – Tabaco Albay – First woman bar topnotcher in the Philippines and the first congresswoman to be re-elected.
TLC Beatrice – LLC
Victor Wood – Singer
Victor Ziga – Tabaco City – Senator
William “Bogs” Adornado – Legazpi City – PBA player, MVP
Yoyoy Villamin – Cam Norte – Basketball Player, PBA
Personalities
Albay ,
Asia ,
Bacacay ,
Camarines Sur ,
Iriga City ,
Legazpi City ,
Masbate ,
Naga City ,
Philippines ,
Provinces ,
Tabaco City
Bicolanos in government
Leave a comment
Posted by
Saminovic
on
September 11, 2010
Leila De Lima,
Secretary, Department of Justice. She was the Chairperson of the Philippine
Commission on Human Rights
until President Aquino chose her to be his Justice Secretary.
Jesse Robredo,
Secretary of the Interior and Local Government
of the
Philippines . He was formerly the Mayor of
Naga City . Robredo is the first Filipino Mayor to receive the
Ramon Magsaysay Award
for Government Service in 2000.
Ed Malaya , Spokesman,
Department of Foreign Affairs . He is a career diplomat.
Joel Cadiz,
Solicitor General. He was former president of the Integrated Bar of the
Philippines .
Jonathan Malaya , Assistant Secretary, Department of Education.
Fabian Cadiz , Vice Mayor, Marikina City
Rodel Batocabe , House of Representatives, Ako Bicol Partylist
Department of Education ,
Department of Foreign Affairs ,
Department of Justice ,
Government Service ,
Solicitor General
Asia ,
Department of Foreign Affairs ,
Department of Justice ,
Government ,
Local government ,
Naga City ,
Philippines
Tercentenary of the devotion to the Our Lady of Peñafrancia
Leave a comment
Posted by
Saminovic
on
September 8, 2010
Source:
http://www.penafrancia.net
Tens of
thousands of
pilgrims , devotees,
tourists
come to
Naga City ,
Philippines
every September for a nine-day festivities in honor of
Our Lady of
Peñafrancia , the Patroness of
Bicol ,
endearingly addressed by Bicolanos
as INA (mother). The festivities begin with the famous Traslacion
procession during which the images of the Lady of Peñafrancia and the
Divino Rostro ( Holy Face ) are brought by barefooted male voyadores from
the Basilica through the main streets of the city to the Cathedral. This
procession, which usually lasts for 4 hours, is participated in by
thousands of devotees from all over Bicol and other parts of the
country.
The Traslacion Procession of the Image of Our Lady of Penafrancia from her shrine to the
Cathedral marking the start of the Novenario in her honor
Fluvial Procession during Penafrancia Festival on the eve of the feast of Nstra Sra. De Penafrancia
The
devotion started three hundred years ago, in 1710, when Fr. Miguel
Robles de Covarrubias had an image carved, an chapel built and
processions held in honor of the miraculous image of
the Virgin
of
Peñafrancia on account the many favors he received through the help of
the Virgin, especially pertaining to his health.
Since then the
devotion has grew and has even reached abroad. Devotees’ accounts of
healing and favors received through her intercession are a reason for
the spread of the devotion.
Many have come to Naga as curious visitors
and left as devotees of the Virgin.
In 2010, the devotion shall mark
its 300th year.
The
Archdiocese of Caceres
has outlined a three-year preparation
for the tercentenary with each year centered on a particular theme and
objective.
Year 1
(September 2007 to September 2008 ) whose theme is,
Remembering the Gift of the Devotion to Ina, will be dedicated to
revisiting the history of the devotion in view of
a deeper
understanding of the same devotion.
Year 2 (September 2008 to September 2009)
whose
theme is Renewing the Faith through Ina, will be dedicated to
appreciating the devotees’ giftedness towards a more vibrant and
relevant faith life.
In Year 3 (September 2009 to September 2010)
whose theme is
Sharing the Future in Hope, will be dedicated to envisioning the future
with the intent of sharing the fruits of the devotion to the next
generations.
Year 2010 (September 2010), the
church
in Bicol will celebrate in
thanksgiving the grace of
300 Years of Devotion. The over-all theme of
the celebration is “A Gift received, a Gift to share”.
Cam Sur ,
Naga City ,
Peñaftancia ,
Religion ,
Tourism
Archdiocese of Caceres ,
Bicol Region ,
Christianity ,
Naga City ,
Our Lady of Peñafrancia ,
Philippines ,
Religion and Spirituality
Tourist Spots in Bicol 1
3 Comments
Posted by
Saminovic
on
September 7, 2010
Source:
http://www.philippinesboard.com
Bicol
is a peninsula located at the southeastern part of
Luzon . It is
about 9 hours by land or 45 minutes by air. Because of its geographic
characteristics, Bicol can offer the best nature experience. One can
enjoy white sand beaches, explore mysterious caves, hike thru mountains
and volcanoes and visit cultural sites. If you are looking for a place
to go with a variety of activities to enjoy, then Bicol is the place
for
you. To help you begin your trip, we have listed below the
Top 5
Tourist Spots in Bicol- Philippines
to visit.
Mt. Mayon : Natures Masterpiece
If
Mt. Fuji is to Japan, then Mt. Mayon is to Bicol. Mt. Mayon with
its
perfectly shaped cone can be considered
one
of the Top 5 Tourist
Spots in Bicol-Philippines. This still
active volcano
rises a majestic
2,421 meters and lords over the Bicol horizon. Mt. Mayon is located in
northern part of
Legazpi City .
If you are up for the challenge to climb
Mt. Mayon, you may get in
touch with the Mayon Mountaineers through the
Department of Tourism
Office. Or alternatively, one can climb third of
the way up to the
Mayon Resthouse and the PHILVOCS Observatory and
Museum.
Cagsawa Ruins : A Memorial for A Tragic Past
A lone church
bell tower
rises in the landscape with Mt. Mayon
dominating the horizon behind
it. This scene is famously depicted in
many postcards throughout the
Philippines. The bell tower is what
remains of the Cagsawa town, about a
few minutes ride from Legazpi City.
When Mt. Mayon erupted in 1814 it
engulfed the whole town in fiery
lava. The people fled to the church
but were unable to escape the lava
flows. Only the church tower remains
from this 19th century town to
serve as a memorial for a tragic past.
Tiwi
Hot Springs National Park : Harnessing Nature for Energy
Tiwi
is a highly active thermal zone, with Tiwi Hot Springs in the
Top 5
Tourist Spots in Bicol-Philippines. Its hot waters are believed to
have
medicinal properties. Naglagbong Lake offers the hottest waters.
The
Geothermal Electric Power Plant is also located in Tiwi. It uses
steam
from the natural hot springs to generate
electricity .
Hoyop-Hoyopan Caves : The Cave that Whistles
In
the local dialect hoyop-hoyopan means blow-blow. The name is
descriptive to the sound of the wind whistling through the cave
entrance. The Hoyop-Hoyopan cave is located 15 km from Legazpi, in the
town of
Camalig . Franciscan priests had excavated archeological
artifacts dating from
50 BC
from this cave. Some of the artifacts can be
viewed at the nearby Camalig Church while some are located at the
National Museum in Manila.
Busay Falls: A Cascading Wonder
The
Busay Falls is in our
Top 5 Tourist Spots in Bicol-Philippines.
It is
one of the highest waterfalls in the Philippines. Its luminescent
waters cascades down in seven tiers from a height of 800 ft into two
catch basins. The falls is located in
Malilipot ,
Albay
and is accessible
through a foot trail.
Tourism
Albay ,
Asia ,
Bicol Region ,
busay falls ,
cagsawa ,
cagsawa ruins ,
Camalig Albay ,
hot springs ,
hoyop-hoyopan cave ,
Japan ,
Legazpi City ,
Malilipot Albay ,
Manila ,
mayon ,
Mayon Volcano ,
Philippines ,
Provinces ,
spots ,
tiwi ,
tiwi hot springs ,
tourist ,
tourist spots ,
Volcano ,
waterfalls
Peñafrancia viva la virgen festival
Leave a comment
Posted by
Saminovic
on
September 7, 2010
Source:
http://mgaakiniina.com/About_Us.html
The feast of
Our Lady of Peñafrancia
is celebrated on the third Saturday of September in
Naga City , Bicol
Philippines . All roads and routes will lead to Naga City in
Camarines Sur
where six million Bicolanos from here and abroad will flock to that
progressive city to pay honor to the Virgin of Peñafrancia, miraculous
patroness of the
Bicol Region .
Bicolanos from all walks of life will be in Naga City to meet their
relatives and partidarios, share food, drinks, and prayers with them,
and most of all, to pay homage and make thanksgiving to the Virgin of
Peñafrancia, whom the Bicolanos fondly call Ina. Viva la Virgen, they
will shout to high heavens. The feast day is headed by a novena, nine
days of prayer, in honor of the Virgin. On the first day, the image of
the Virgin, a copy of the
Madonna
in Peñafrancia,
Spain ,
is brought from its shrine to the Naga Cathedral where the novena is
held. On the last day, the image is returned to her shrine following the
Naga River route. The colorful evening procession is lit by thousands
of candles from followers in boats escorting the image. When the
flatboat reaches its destination, the devotees shout “Viva la Virgen”
(Long live the Virgin!) and the image is carried back in a procession to
the cathedral.
Millions of Bicolanos will once again show to the whole Christian
world their strong faith and loyalty to their Heavenly Mother. amongst
triumphant sounding shouts of Viva la Virgen , Bicolanos and pilgrims,
with lighted candles in their hands, will kneel on the ground and bow
their heads in prayer as the colorful fluvial procession carrying the
Virgin plows through the Bicol River in downtown Naga.
A multicolored pagoda carrying the images/icons of the Virgin of
Peñafrancia and the Divino Rostro will pass through the Bicol River.
Male, sunburned devotees of the Virgin will adhere to the huge pagoda in
a heartwarming display of faith and devotion. Actually, the fluvial
procession marks the return of the Virgin from the Naga Metropolitan
Cathedral to her home shrine at the Basilica. Upon its arrival, the
Virgin will be received in formal religious rites by
Roman Catholic
dignitaries of the Bicol Region.
Considered the biggest and most popular religious event in the
Philippines , the Peñafrancia fiesta is in fact a one-week affair that
starts on the second Friday of September when the miraculous Ina is
transferred from her shrine to the centuries-old Naga Metropolitan
Cathedral where a nine-day novena and prayers are held in her honor.
Ranking government officials, Cabinet members, ambassadors, governors,
mayors, senators, diputados , business/industry leaders, landlords,
etc., vie for the distinct honor of sponsoring a nightly novena and
prayers at the Naga Cathedral.
A procession, locally called traslacion (is the transferring of the
miraculous Image of the Virgin, Our Lady of Peñafrancia and of the
Divino Rostro to the Metropolitan Cathedral of Naga City for a Novena
and Holy Masses. This begun in 1885.), ushers in the weeklong
festivities which include civic and military parades, sports
competitions, agro-industrial fairs, cultural shows, and the coronation
of Miss Bicolandia beauties.
During the traslacion, which passes through the main streets of Naga,
the miraculous Ina of the Bicolanos is borne on the rugged, muscular
shoulders of barefooted voyadores who form a human barricade to protect
the Virgin from the unruly crowd. Call it absolute coincidence or plain
superstition, but any Bicolano will swear to high heavens that the
presence of a woman, Filipina or foreigner, aboard the merrily decorated
pagoda will surely spell disaster. Whether this belief is true or not,
only the Bicolanos know. But past events and experiences support their
claim.
HISTORY
A Spanish government official from Peñafrancia, Spain, a native of
San Martin de Castanar, the Covarrubias family, settled with his family
in Cavite in 1712, according to locals. One day, A son, Miguel Robles de
Covarrubias, a seminarian studying in the Universidad de Santo Tomas,
Manila got very ill. He and his family prayed to Our Iady of Penafrancia
whose picture he was clutching to his breast for his recovery and to
spare his life. He also made a vow that if cured, he would construct a
chapel by the bank of Pasig river in Manila, in gratitude to Her.
Miraculously cured, he eventually was ordained a priest not in Manila
but in the Ciudad de
Nueva Caceres
(now known as Naga City) by Bishop Andres Gonzalez. To fulfill his vow,
Padre Miguel, the ftrst diocesan priest to be ordained in Naga, did two
things: one, he mobilized the natives along the slopes of Mt. Isarog to
construct a chapel made of local materials, nipa and bamboo this time
by the bank of the Bikol river in Naga, not by the Pasig river as
earlier envisioned; two, he ordered a local artisan to carve an image
patterned after the picture of Our lady he always had with him. Miracles
happened then and there. Among them was the story of a dog killed, its
neck slashed in order to take out the poor animal’s blood that was used
to coat/paint the newly carved image. Dumped into the river, the dead
dog began to swim once again alive with hundreds of people witnessing
this prodigy. News of many other miracles spread like wildfire so was
the devotion to
Nuestra Senora
de Penafrancia. The letter of Padre Miguel to the Dominican Fathers of
Salamanca, Spain in 1712 reported many miracles through the intercession
of Our Lady. In the meantime, the devotees grew in number as the
devotion spread fast far and wide, even outside the Diocese of Nueva
Caceres which before comprised not only the Bikol region but including
Tayabas (now Quezon), Marinduque, Laguna up to Palanan, Isabela along
the cordillera ranges. Like the biblical “mustard seed” the Penafrancia
devotion today is like a “giant tree” whose branches extend to other
parts of the world like America, Europe, Australia and Asia. The love
story between our lady of Penafrancla we lovingly call “Ina” and us, her
children is never ending.
The famous Madonna is said to have miraculous powers. On her feast
day, pilgrims gather at her shrine to pay her homage for favors
received.
Religion
Bicol Region ,
Bicolanos ,
Camarines Sur ,
Madonna ,
Naga City ,
Our Lady of Peñafrancia ,
Philippines ,
Spain
Bicol’s ailing archbishop claims to have been healed by Virgin Mary
Comments Off
on Bicol’s ailing archbishop claims to have been healed by Virgin Mary
Posted by
Saminovic
on
September 7, 2010
Source: INQUIRER.net –
Shiena
Barrameda, Inquirer Southern Luzon
NAGA CITY, Philippines —
Archbishop
Leonardo Z. Legaspi has claimed that he has been healed of his tumors by the Lady of Peñafrancia, an image of the
Virgin Mary
long venerated by many Filipino Catholics for miracles.
Legaspi made the declaration on Monday during a press conference organized by the
Archdiocese of Caceres
at the Archbishop’s Palace here in the city.
He said he had been suffering from the tumors in his lungs but last Saturday, his
physician
was astounded to find no more traces of the nodes or tumors.
He said the tumors were first spotted by his doctors in January 2009.
The tumors had caused him to undergo two sessions of chemotherapy and had kept him in turmoil until he almost lost all hope of getting well again.
Legaspi said he was initially found to be afflicted with stage three
lung cancer
and was advised to undergo surgery in Manila in 2009. However, the doctors found him unfit for the operation, putting him under chemotherapy instead.
“We were not prepared for the good news. I was even shocked when he said it,” Fr. Wilmer Tria said in a phone interview.
Tria, one of the heads of the Madrigal Foundation, was also present during the press conference.
“At first, we were just discussing the role of the media to avoid unnecessary publicity, which we got last year after a
priest
was punched during a procession. Then, he (Legaspi) suddenly said that he is healed now. He’s no longer sick of lung cancer,” Tria said.
According to Tria, the Archbishop admitted that he never asked for the miracle himself. Instead, Legaspi was thought to have given up on his medication and had altogether stopped taking his pills and capsules required for his chemotherapy.
“He dropped the medicines a month after starting them because he seemed to find it harder to live with them. He even got out of his liquid chemo last February due to discomforts. He literally left all chances of
medical
healing and prayed to live long enough to see the tercentenary celebrations, nothing more,” Tria added.
Fr. Andrew Recepcion, executive secretary for the central committee of the tercentenary celebrations, and also among those who heard the happy announcement, confirmed that the archbishop did not ask to be healed and attributed this miracle to the collective prayers of all the people who surrounded him.
“He believed that it was a gift from “Ina” (the name given by Bicolanos to the Lady of Penafrancia). Something that he never expected to happen,” says Recepcion.
On Tuesday, the
clergy
of Naga assembled in the Minor Seminary for a day of prayer and meditation with almost all of the high-ranking priests under the Archdiocese of Caceres, seminarians and other members of the clergy in attendance.
The Archbishop was said to be present in the assembly. He, however, did not make himself available for any more interviews and his supporters said he has been resting to prepare for the busy month ahead.
“He looks younger now,” Tria added. “I think he’s ready for another 10 years of his life.”
“He definitely is healthier. His color is back. He looks good, better than before,” Recepcion said with a smile.
The Lady of Peñafrancia or Ina has drawn pilgrims from all over the world due to word of her miracles.
Father Miguel Robles de Covarrubias of Ciudad de Nueva Caceres (the name of the old
Naga City ) was a young seminarian when he was healed of an illness, which was attributed to his devotion to the Bicol patroness.
His healing inspired him to start the Peñafrancia festivities 300 years ago.
Bicol is celebrating the 300th year of the Our Lady of Penafrancia as its
patron saint .
Religion
Archdiocese of Caceres ,
Cancer ,
Covarrubias of Ciudad de Nueva Caceres ,
Lung cancer ,
Naga City ,
Patron saint ,
Priest ,
Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Caceres
←
Older posts
Newer posts
→
RSS feed
Archives
Archives
Select Month
May 2014  (1)
January 2011  (10)
December 2010  (10)
November 2010  (47)
October 2010  (31)
September 2010  (21)
August 2010  (5)
July 2010  (3)
Latest Bikol News/Posts
Naga airport’s re-orientation plan up to RDC
CamSur offers scholarship to IT students and professionals
Catanduanes plants 32,000 trees in a day
Bicol records 4.0 % annual inflation rate in 2010
BIR Bicol overshoots 2010 collection goal by 5.55 percent
Light penalty for extortion irks nun
Bicol youths back realization of Millenium Development Goal 7
Solcom launches ‘Oplan Tulong’
Venus Raj says money is not the only reason she signed up with ABS-CBN
Venus Raj in good company
Bicol Festivals
Tinagba Festival
Peñafrancia Festival
Rodeo Masbateño
Butanding Festival
Ibalong Festival
Bicol Provinces, Cities
Iriga City
Naga City
Legaspi City
Daet
Catanduanes
Sorsogon
Masbate
Camarines Sur
Camarines Norte
Albay
Ligao City
Masbate City
Sorsogon City
Tabaco City
Bicol Tourist Destinations
Caramoan Peninsula
Donsol, Sorsogon
Albay
Cam Sur
Cam Norte
Catanduanes
Masbate
Sorsogon
Weather
Philippines
Bicol
Flickr Photos
More Photos
Blog Stats
284,683 hits
Outsourcing Services ?
Try
Freelancer.com .
QUICK POLL
What is your favorite festival in Bikol?
( polls )
Top Clicks naga.gov.ph wowbicol.com/catanduanes.… neda5.net/rpfp/physical_e… wapedia.mobi/en/Masbateño… maps.google.com/maps?ll=1… maps.google.com/maps?ll=3… en.wikipilipinas.org/inde…
↑ Top
Blog at WordPress.com .
The zBench Theme .
Follow
Follow “BICOL-MAN”
Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.
Build a website with WordPress.com