29 | July | 2012 |
Home
About Waldina
Locations – Grays Harbor
The P.S.A. on SPA
The Nerd
It Gets Better – My Story
Ronald James Babb
I Don’t Know His Story
Jared Washine – Writings
F. Scott Fitzgerald
“The Diamond As Big As The Ritz” – F. Scott Fitzgerald
Another link is broken
Bernice Bobs Her Hair
F. Scott Fitzgerald – Happy 115th Birthday
F. Scott Fitzgerald Responds to Hate Mail
F. Scott Fitzgerald’s Turkey Recipes
Happy Birthday Zelda Sayre Fitzgerald
How This Side of Paradise Was Born
You’ve Got to Sell Your Heart
Zelda Fitzgerald – Not So Secret Obsession
Zelda Fitzgerald – Style Icon
Jared Washine – Writings
F. Scott Fitzgerald – Not So Secret Obsession
David Rakoff
Karl Lagerfeld – Humanity’s Antagonist
Barbara Bush – Humanity’s Antagonist
Cupcakes – Creativity’s Antagonist
David Rakoff, Award-Winning Humorist, Dies at 47
David Rakoff: ‘There Is No Answer As To Why Me’ : NPR
David Rakoff’s Last Deadline
David Rakoff’s ‘Half Empty’ Worldview Is Full Of Wit : NPR
My First New York
Love, Dishonor, Marry, Die, Cherish, Perish:
A Novel by David Rakoff
Search:
Daily Archives:
July 29, 2012
The Best of SPA 2001
29
Sunday
Jul 2012
Posted
by
Scott Parker-Anderson
in
Uncategorized
≈
Leave a comment
Tags 2001 A Space Odyssey ,
David Rakoff ,
Family ,
film ,
George W. Bush ,
Mary (mother of Jesus) ,
Portage Bay ,
Skeet Ulrich ,
Stanley Kubrick ,
Stone Cold ,
Trailer ,
United States ,
Virgin Mary ,
Wine tasting descriptors ,
World Trade Center
I sifted through my journal from 2001 and pulled out the best of the best, or what I felt was the best. A lot happened in 2001. It appears that I spent quite a while that year with a
stiff neck , or at least complaining about a stiff neck.  But first, let’s drop it into history.  I was 31, working at Amazon.com, living on
Portage Bay , and driving a
VW Golf .
I didn’t write anything interesting until April, so we will start there:
[Apr. 27th, 2001|11:21 am]
I had a dream last night where my mother was trying to talk me into going to a baseball game with her. We were stopping off to visit a friend of hers that lived in a brick tower. To get up to her friend’s place, we had to walk up a staircase that wrapped around the outside of the tower, passing everyone else’s place along the way up. When we finally got up to the top we were tired and I sat down on a sofa to rest. Then about a minute later, a neighbor from down below came up to check on us, he said “I just wanted to make sure everything was ok, a man in a green turban and robe walked up here and didn’t wave at me.” I thought how strange, I hadn’t seen anyone, then I looked down and wouldn’t you know it, I was wearing a green robe and turban. I said “oh, I guess that was me.” Everyone looked at me and just nodded as to say “yes, we know”. Then I woke up.
[Aug. 14th, 2001|02:05 pm]
Mullet
Haikus
My hair is slammin’
like
Stone Cold . Can I get a Hell
yeah? Hell yeah. Hell yeah.
This super cool hair
and a bucket of chicken:
What more could I want?
Lynnrd Skynnrd didn’t
win no spelling bees. Who cares?
They rock the trailer.
Short for dad. Long for
the daughter mom always wanted.
Everyone’s happy.
[Aug. 25th, 2001|02:06 pm]
My new hobby is going to weddings. It is really good. I wish I could write a review column for weddings, but the fact that I would be a little harsh about their ‘special day’ has captured my better judgment and has not let go. ah well. Last night’s was totally lovely, except that the bride threw the
bouquet
over the entire crowd of eager single ladies, directly onto the kiddy table, where I was sitting with all the other misfits. The person who actually caught it was Stevie, a gender-bending girl-boy with red chunky steaks in her short cropped haircut.
[Sep. 1st, 2001|08:42 am]
I had a dream last night that I was lying on a bed with
Skeet Ulrich , sort of running my fingers through his hair and casually mentioned that we had the same birthday, he being a year older. well, he thought that was creepy that I knew when his birthday was, got up and left.
[Sep. 14th, 2001|11:13 am]
My dreams of terrorism continued last night, although, it seems that I am starting to take a little more control of the situation and starting to stick up for myself and others. Last night, I drove a
luggage cart
full of luggage directly into one of the propellers of a plane that was taking off after being hijacked.
[Sep. 22nd, 2001|01:21 pm]
He had one of those rare smiles with a quality of eternal reassurance in it, that you may come across four or five times in life. It faced, or seemed to face, the whole external world for an instant and then concentrated on you with an irresistible prejudice in your favor. It understood you just as far as you wanted to be understood, believed in you as you would like to believe in yourself.
[Sep. 28th, 2001|10:16 am]
Someone told me today that my hair looks like all the colors that no one wants. He was trying to compliment me, but it just sounded odd.
[Sep. 28th, 2001|11:38 am]
David Rakoff : “The woman reading through her lines right now is walking universal perfection. She is lung collapsingly, jaw achingly, fall down on the sidewalk teeth first, take a bottle of pills, and throw yourself out a window beautiful. The planes and angles of her face are a mathematical equation adding up to a great cosmic
YES .”
[Oct. 4th, 2001|09:43 am]
My neighbor was evicted yesterday, all of her stuff put out on the sidewalk, stretching down the street. She had a lot of stuff, it was a mess. There was a nativity scene piled upon itself, most of the pieces looked to be there, except the three foot tall
Virgin Mary
was missing her head! I thought long and hard about slipping it into my house and giving it as a gift sometime, but I figured that a new deeper, darker Hell would be invented just for me. Stealing a headless Virgin Mary from someone that has been evicted?
[Nov. 17th, 2001|08:21 am]
This morning on my way to work, I drove over what I originally thought was a rolled up newspaper in the street, but right before it disappeared under my car, I realized that it was a
prosthetic leg ! Oh My God! I ran over someone’s fake leg. Can you believe that? How does that happen?
[Dec. 14th, 2001|07:46 am]
I can only find the “Hate” glove of my “Love and Hate” pair of gloves, is that a sign?
47.610789
-122.323751
Share this: Share Facebook Pinterest Twitter Tumblr Google LinkedIn Email Print Reddit Like this: Like
Loading...
Subscribe
Get Instant Email Updates.
Your inbox wants this.
Join 1,546 other followers
waldina
Blog Stats
243,670 hits
Instagram
Find It.
Search:
Archives
July 2012
M
T
W
T
F
S
S
« Jun
Aug »
1
2 3 4 5 6 7 8
9 10 11 12 13 14 15
16 17 18 19 20 21 22
23 24 25 26 27 28 29
30 31
Community
The Real SPA on tumblr (via “What a costume designer does is a cross between magic and... nemfrog:
Plate VIII. Coral _Le monde de la mer_ 1866
Today is the 118th birthday of the woman who made more influence... Today is the 118th birthday of the woman who made more influence... Today is Elsa Lanchester‘s 113rd birthday.
I tried to include a... Tags Academy Award
Academy Award for Best Actress
Actor
Alfred Hitchcock
American Film Institute
Andy Warhol
art
Arts
Associated Press
Barack Obama
birthday
Brain Pickings
Broadway theatre
Brooklyn
Business
California
celebrities
Chicago
Christmas
Daily Post
Death anniversary
Diana Vreeland
Elizabeth Taylor
England
entertainment
Ernest Hemingway
F. Scott Fitzgerald
Facebook
fashion
France
Great Gatsby
Health
Hollywood
Hollywood Walk of Fame
inspirations
Instagram
Keith Haring
letters of note
Literature
London
Los Angeles
Marilyn Monroe
Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer
Museum of Modern Art
Music
New York
New York City
New York Times
not so secret obsession
Paris
politics
Postaday
Potd
read
rear view mirror
Recreation
required viewing
right side of history
San Francisco
Seattle
self help
Shopping
style icon
Television
Tony Award
twitter
United States
vacation
Vogue
Waldina
Washington
watch
week in review
World War II
Zelda Fitzgerald
Scott Parker-Anderson
The unapologetic obliteration of the sacred.
I chronicle what inspires me at Waldina.com
I faceplace at facebook.com/parkeranderson
I store my selfies at instagram.com/therealspa#
I tumblr at waspandpear.tumblr.com/
I tweet at twitter.com/TheRealSPA
Verified Services
View Full Profile →
Create a free website or blog at WordPress.com .
The Chateau Theme .
Follow
Follow “”
Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.
Join 1,546 other followers
Build a website with WordPress.com
Send to Email Address
Your Name
Your Email Address
Cancel
Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
%d
bloggers like this: