I: LUCIFERIANS EXPOSED II
- LUCIFER AND SULPHUR
I
I
Wednesday, April 6, 2011
LUCIFERIANS EXPOSED II
- LUCIFER AND SULPHUR
LUCIFER AND SULPHUR
Revelation 9:17
The horses and riders I saw in my vision looked like this: Their breastplates were fiery red, dark blue, and yellow as sulfur. The heads of the horses resembled the heads of lions, and out of their mouths came fire, smoke and sulfu r
Revelation 14:10
he, too, will drink of the wine of God's fury, which has been poured full strength into the cup of his wrath. He will be tormented with burning sulfur in the presence of the holy angels and of the Lamb.
Revelation 19:20
But the beast was captured, and with him the false prophet who had performed the miraculous signs on his behalf. With these signs he had deluded those who had received the mark of the beast and worshiped his image. The two of them were thrown alive into the fiery lake of burning sulfur
Revelation 20:10
And the devil, who deceived them, was thrown into the lake of burning sulfur, where the beast and the false prophet had been thrown. They will be tormented day and night for ever and ever.
Revelation 21:8
But the cowardly, the unbelieving, the vile, the murderers, the sexually immoral,
those who practice magic arts,
the idolaters and all liars--their place will be in the fiery lake of burning sulfur. This is the second death.
Isaiah 30:33
Topheth has long been prepared; it has been made ready for the king. Its fire pit has been made deep and wide, with an abundance of fire and wood; the breath of the LORD, like a stream of burning sulfur, sets it ablaze.
Leonardo  Da Vinci dodecahedron plan
When burned, sulfur melts to a blood-red liquid and emits
a blue flame which is best observed in the dark.
The blue flame is well known related with  the seven rays ( rainbow ) of
Madame Blavatsky, Alice  Bailey and United Nations Lucis  Aryan Satanic trust.
This codes have been encrypted on their New Age religions.
Sulfur flowing from Volcano
Follow the tectonic plates and find the sun cult through history,
specially round parallel 33 the sacred freemasons number and find their
4 dimensional  secrets  through their  connection with the underworld  and the dead
the real origin of true knowledge and science.
The  House of Orange-Nassau  (in  Dutch : Huis van Oranje-Nassau ), a branch of the European  House of Nassau , has played a central role in the political life of the Netherlands  — and at times in  Europe  — since  William I of Orange  (also known as "William the Silent" and "Father of the Fatherland") organized the Dutch revolt against  Spanish  rule, which after the  Eighty Years' War  led to an independent Dutch state. Several members of the house served during this war and after as  governor  or  stadtholder (Dutch  stadhouder ). However, in 1815, after a long period as a republic, the Netherlands became a  monarchy  under the House of Orange-Nassau. The dynasty was established as a result of the  marriage  of  Hendrik III of Nassau-Breda from  Germany  and  Claudia of Châlon-Orange  from French  Burgundy  in 1515. Their son Rene inherited in 1530 the  Principality of Orange  from his mother's brother,  Philibert of Châlon . As the first Nassau to be the Prince of Orange, Rene' could have used "Orange-Nassau" as his new family name. However, his uncle, in his will, had stipulated that Rene' should continue the use of the name Châlon-Orange. History knows him therefore as  René of Châlon . After the death of René in 1544 his cousin William of Nassau-Dillenburg inherited all his lands. This "William I of Orange" - in English better known as  William the Silent  - became the founder of the House of Orange-Nassau.
Prince Bernhard founder of Bilderberg  and
WWF in Diana´s symbolic  ritual
Goddess Diana the hunter ( Orion )
Orange sulfur
Sulfur  or  sulphur  (   / ˈ s ʌ l f ər /   SUL -fər ;  see spelling below ) is the  chemical element with atomic number 16, represented by the symbol  S . It is an abundant,  multivalent non-metal . At  normal conditions , sulfur atoms form cyclic octatomic molecules with chemical formula S 8 . Elemental sulfur is a bright yellow  crystalline  solid. Chemically, sulfur can react as either an  oxidant  or reducing agent . It oxidizes most  metals  and several  nonmetals , including carbon, which leads to its negatives charge in most  organosulfur compounds , but it reduces several strong oxidants, such as  oxygen  and  fluorine . In  nature , sulfur can be found as the pure element and as  sulfide  and  sulfate  minerals. Elemental sulfur crystals are commonly sought after by mineral collectors for their brightly colored  polyhedron  shapes.
Kepler polyhedrons
Toth gem, all seeing eye, XP, hexagram,  star of david  3D
Sulfur is an  essential element  for all life, and is widely used in biochemical processes. In metabolic reactions, sulfur compounds serve as both fuels and respiratory (oxygen-replacing) materials for simple organisms. Sulfur in organic form is present in the vitamins  biotin  and  thiamine , the latter being named for the Greek word for sulfur. Sulfur is an important part of many enzymes and also in antioxidant molecules like  glutathione  and  thioredoxin . Organically bonded sulfur is a component of all proteins, as the  amino acids   cysteine and  methionine .  Disulfide  bonds are largely responsible for the mechanical strength and insolubility of the protein  keratin , found in outer skin, hair, and feathers, and the element contributes to their pungent odor when burned
There is a large number of  allotropes  of  sulfur . In this respect, sulfur is second only to  carbon . [1]  The most common form found in nature is yellow  orthorhombic  α-sulfur, which contains puckered rings of  S 8 . [1]  Chemistry students may have seen " plastic sulfur "; this is not an allotrope but a mixture of long chain polymeric sulfur forms, two of which have been identified as allotropes. [1]  In addition to these there are other solid forms that contain sulfur rings of 6, 7, 9–15, 18 and 20 atoms. [1]  There are also gases, S 2 , S 3 ; some species only detected in the vapour phase, S 4  and S 5  and perhaps five or more high-pressure forms, two of which are metallic. [2
Cyclo-S 8
α-sulfur α-sulfur is the form most commonly found in nature. [1]  When pure it has a greenish-yellow colour (traces of cyclo-S 7  in commercially available samples make it appear yellower). [2]  It is practically insoluble in water and is a good electrical insulator with poor thermal conductivity. [1]  It is quite soluble in  carbon disulfide : 35.5 g/100 g solvent at 25 °C. [1]  It has a
rhombohedral crystal structure . [1]  This is the predominant form found in "flowers of sulfur", "roll sulfur" and "milk of sulfur". [2]  It contains S 8  puckered rings, alternatively called a crown shape. [1]  The S-S bond lengths are all 206 pm and the S-S-S angles are 108° with a dihedral angle of 98°. [1]  At 95.3 °C, α-sulfur converts to β-sulfur
(Click here for rotating model)
Rhombic dodecahedron encrypts 4 d secrets
In  geometry , the  rhombic dodecahedron  is a  convex   polyhedron with 12  rhombic  faces. It is an  Archimedean dual  solid, or a  Catalan solid . Its  dual  is the  cuboctahedron .
The rhombic dodecahedron is a zonohedron . Its polyhedral  dual  is the cuboctahedron . The long diagonal of each face is exactly  √2  times the length of the short diagonal, so that the  acute angles on each face measure cos −1 (1/3), or approximately 70.53°. Being the dual of an  Archimedean polyhedron , the rhombic dodecahedron is face-transitive , meaning the  symmetry group  of the solid acts  transitively  on the set of faces. In elementary terms, this means that for any two faces A and B there is a  rotation  or  reflection  of the solid that leaves it occupying the same region of space while moving face A to face B. The rhombic dodecahedron is one of the nine  edge-transitive  convex polyhedra, the others being the five  Platonic solids , the  cuboctahedron , the  icosidodecahedron  and the  rhombic triacontahedron . This tessellation can be seen as the  Voronoi tessellation  of the  face-centred cubic lattice . Some minerals such as  garnet  form a rhombic dodecahedral  crystal habit .  Honeybees  use the geometry of rhombic dodecahedra to form  honeycomb  from a tessellation of cells each of which is a  hexagonal prism  capped with half a rhombic dodecahedron. The rhombic dodecahedron also appears in the unit cells of  diamond  and  diamondoids . In these cases, four vertices are absent, but the chemical bonds lie on the remaining edges. [
Garnet geme stones
Some minerals such as  garnet  form a rhombic dodecahedral  crystal habit .  Honeybees  use the geometry of rhombic dodecahedra to form  honeycomb  from a tessellation of cells each of which is a  hexagonal prism  capped with half a rhombic dodecahedron.
The  garnet  ( pronounced  /ˈɡɑrnɨt/ ) group includes a group of minerals that have been used since the  Bronze Age  as  gemstones  and  abrasives . The name "garnet" may come from either the Middle English word  gernet  meaning 'dark red', or the  Latin   granatus  (" grain "), possibly a reference to the  Punica granatum (" pomegranate "), a plant with red seeds similar in shape, size, and color to some garnet crystals.
Properties Garnets species are found in many colors including red, orange, yellow, green, blue, purple, brown, black, pink and colorless. The rarest of these is the blue garnet, discovered in the late 1990s in Bekily,  Madagascar . It is also found in parts of the  United States ,  Russia  and Turkey . It changes color from blue-green in the daylight to purple in  incandescent  light, as a result of the relatively high amounts of  vanadium  (about 1 wt.% V 2 O 3 ). Other varieties of color-changing garnets exist. In daylight, their color ranges from shades of green, beige, brown, gray, and blue, but in incandescent light, they appear a reddish or purplish/pink color. Because of their color changing quality, this kind of garnet is often mistaken for  Alexandrite .
Pomegranate fruit
Symbolism
Ancient Greece The wild pomegranate did not occur in the Aegean area in
Neolithic
times. It originated in eastern
Iran
and came to the Aegean world along the same cultural pathways that brought the goddess whom the
Anatolians
worshipped as
Cybele
and the
Mesopotamians
as
Ishtar . The myth of
Persephone , the goddess of the
Underworld , also prominently features the pomegranate. In one version of
Greek mythology , Persephone was kidnapped by
Hades
and taken off to live in the underworld as his wife. Her mother,
Demeter
(goddess of the Harvest), went into mourning for her lost daughter and thus all green things ceased to grow.
Zeus ,
the highest ranking of the Greek gods, could not allow the Earth to
die, so he commanded Hades to return Persephone. It was the rule of the
Fates
that anyone who consumed food or drink in the Underworld was doomed to
spend eternity there. Persephone had no food, but Hades tricked her into
eating six pomegranate seeds while she was still his prisoner and so,
because of this, she was condemned to spend six months in the Underworld
every year. During these six months, when Persephone is sitting on the
throne of the Underworld next to her husband Hades, her mother Demeter
mourns and no longer gives fertility to the earth. This became an
ancient Greek explanation for the seasons.   Dante Gabriel Rossetti 's painting
Persephona
depicts Persephone holding the fatal fruit.
Persephone with a broken cross of Nero
pomegranate  our  actual  peace symbol
together with  the Columba Luciferian Dove
It should be noted that the
number of seeds that Persephone ate varies, depending on which version
of the story is told. The number of seeds she is said to have eaten
ranges from three to seven, which accounts for just one barren season if
it is just three or four seeds, or two barren seasons (half the year)
if she ate six or seven seeds. The pomegranate also evoked the presence of the Aegean
Triple Goddess
who evolved into the Olympian
Hera , who is sometimes represented offering the pomegranate, as in the Polykleitos'
cult image
of the Argive
Heraion
(see below). According to
Carl A. P. Ruck
and
Danny Staples , the chambered pomegranate is also a surrogate for the poppy's
narcotic capsule , with its comparable shape and chambered interior. [52]
On a Mycenaean seal illustrated in
Joseph Campbell 's
Occidental Mythology
1964, figure 19, the seated Goddess of the double-headed axe (the
labrys )
offers three poppy pods in her right hand and supports her breast with
her left. She embodies both aspects of the dual goddess, life-giving and
death-dealing at once. The Titan
Orion
was represented as "marrying"
Side ,
a name that in Boeotia means "pomegranate", thus consecrating the
primal hunter to the Goddess. Other Greek dialects call the pomegranate
rhoa ; its possible connection with the name of the earth goddess
Rhea , inexplicable in Greek, proved suggestive for the mythographer
Karl Kerenyi , who suggested that the consonance might ultimately derive from a deeper,
pre-Indo-European language
layer.
Pomegranate — opened up, describes pentagonal cycle of Venus
In the 6th century BC,
Polykleitos
took ivory and gold to sculpt the seated
Argive
Hera in her temple. She held a scepter in one hand and offered a pomegranate, like a 'royal
orb ', in the other. "About the pomegranate I must say nothing," whispered the traveller
Pausanias
in the 2nd century, "for its story is something of a mystery." Indeed, in the Orion story we hear that Hera cast pomegranate- Side
(an ancient city in Antalya) into dim
Erebus  —
"for daring to rival Hera's beauty", which forms the probable point of
connection with the older Osiris/Isis story. Since the ancient Egyptians
identified the Orion constellation in the sky as
Sah
the "soul of
Osiris ",
the identification of this section of the myth seems relatively
complete. Hera wears, not a wreath nor a tiara nor a diadem, but clearly
the
calyx
of the pomegranate that has become her serrated crown. The pomegranate
has a calyx shaped like a crown. In Jewish tradition it has been seen as
the original "design" for the proper crown. [53]
In some artistic depictions, the pomegranate is found in the hand of
Mary , mother of Jesus.
Detail from  Madonna of the Pomegranate  by  Sandro Botticelli , ca. 1487 ( Uffizi Gallery ,  Florence ).
A pomegranate is displayed on
coins from the ancient city of Side , Pamphylia. [54] Within the sanctuary of Hera at
Foce del Sele , Magna Graecia, is a chapel devoted to the
Madonna del Granato ,
"Our Lady of the Pomegranate", "who by virtue of her epithet and the
attribute of a pomegranate must be the Christian successor of the
ancient Greek goddess Hera", observes the excavator of the
Heraion of Samos , Helmut Kyrieleis. [55]
In modern times the pomegranate still holds strong symbolic meanings for the Greeks. On important days in the
Greek Orthodox
calendar, such as the
Presentation of the
Virgin Mary
and on
Christmas Day , it is traditional to have at the dinner table
"polysporia" , also known by their ancient name " panspermia ," in some regions of Greece. In ancient times they were offered to
Demeter [ citation needed ]
and to the other gods for fertile land, for the spirits of the dead and in honor of compassionate
Dionysus .
When one buys a new home, it is conventional for a house guest to bring
as a first gift a pomegranate, which is placed under/near the
ikonostasi
(home altar) of the house, as a symbol of abundance, fertility and good
luck. Pomegranates are also prominent at Greek weddings and funerals.
When Greeks commemorate their dead, they make
kollyva
as offerings, which consist of boiled wheat, mixed with sugar and
decorated with pomegranate. It is also traditional in Greece to break a
pomegranate on the ground at weddings and on New Years. Pomegranate
decorations for the home are very common in Greece and sold in most home
goods stores. [56]
Judaism Pomegranates were eaten in
Ancient Israel . Pomegranates were one of the fruits that the scouts brought to Moses to show that the "promised land" was fertile. [57]
The
Book of Exodus
[58]
describes the   me'il
("robe of the
ephod ") worn by the
Hebrew
High Priest
as having pomegranates embroidered on the hem. According to the
Books of Kings
[59]
the capitals of the two pillars ( Jachin and Boaz ) that stood in front of
Solomon's Temple
in
Jerusalem
were engraved with pomegranates. It is said that Solomon designed his coronet based on the pomegranate's "crown" (calyx). [53]   It is traditional to eat pomegranates on
Rosh Hashana
because the pomegranate, with its numerous seeds, symbolizes fruitfulness. [60]
Also, it is said to have 613 seeds, which corresponds with the
613 mitzvot
or commandments of the
Torah .
The pomegranate appears on ancient coins of Judea. When not in use, the scroll handles of
Torah scrolls
are sometimes covered with decorative silver globes similar in shape to "pomegranates" ( rimmonim ) Some Jewish scholars believe that it was the pomegranate that was the
forbidden fruit
of the
Garden of Eden . [60]
Pomegranates are one of the
Seven Species
(Hebrew: שבעת המינים,
Shiv'at Ha-Minim ) of fruits and grains enumerated in the
Hebrew Bible
( Deuteronomy 8:8 ) as being special products of the
Land of Israel .
The pomegranate is mentioned in the Bible many times, including this
quote from the Songs of Solomon, "Thy lips are like a thread of scarlet,
and thy speech is comely: thy temples are like a piece of a pomegranate
within thy locks." (Song of Solomon 4:3).  Pomegranates also symbolize
the mystical experience in the Jewish mystical tradition, or
kabbalah ,
with the typical reference being to entering the "garden of
pomegranates" or pardes rimonim; this is also the title of a book by the
16th-century mystic
Moses ben Jacob Cordovero .
The-Garden-of-the-Hesperides-Lord-Frederick-Leighton-1892  The serpent is Lucifer, Hesperides under the pomegranate tree
In  Greek mythology , the  Hesperides  ( Greek :  Ἑσπερίδες ) are  nymphs  who tend a blissful garden in a far western corner of the world, located near the Atlas mountains in North Africa  at the edge of the encircling  Oceanus, the world-ocean . [1] According to the Sicilian Greek poet  Stesichorus , in his poem the "Song of  Geryon ", and the Greek geographer  Strabo , in his book  Geographika  (volume III), the Hesperides are in  Tartessos , a location placed in the south of the  Iberian peninsula . By Roman times, the garden of the Hesperides had lost its archaic place in religion and had dwindled to a poetic convention, in which form it was revived in Renaissance poetry, to refer both to the garden and to the nymphs that dwelt there.
The Nymphs of the Evening Ordinarily the Hesperides number three, like the other Greek triads (the  Three Graces  and the  Moirae ). "Since the Hesperides themselves are mere symbols of the gifts the apples embody, they cannot be actors in a human drama. Their abstract, interchangeable names are a symptom of their impersonality," Evelyn Harrison has observed. [2]  Nevertheless, among the names given to them, though never all at once, are Aegle ("dazzling light"), Arethusa, Erytheia (or Erytheis) and Hesperia (alternatively Hespereia, Hespere, Hespera, Hesperusa or Hesperethoosa). Lipara, Asterope and Chrysothemis are named in a Hesperide scene of the apotheosis of  Heracles  ( romanised  to  Hercules ) on a late fifth-century hydria by the  Meidias Painter  in London [3]  They are sometimes called the Western Maidens, the Daughters of Evening or  Erythrai , and the "Sunset Goddesses", designations all apparently tied to their imagined location in the distant west.  Hesperis  is appropriately the personification of the evening (as  Eos  is of the dawn) and
the Evening Star is Hesperus . In addition to their tending of the garden, they were said to have taken great pleasure in singing.
Lucifer   (Latin   lux   " light "   and   phoros   "carry " , " light   bearer " ) is ,   in Roman mythology ,   the Greek equivalent of   phosphorus   or   Eósforo ( Έωσφόρος )   ' the bearer   of the   Aurora '   which   comes from the old  lady   Luciferian   dark .
This   concept   remained   in the   ancient   Roman   astrology   on the notion of the   stella   morning   ( the   morning star )   stella   opposed to   the  afternoon   or   the evening star   ( the   star   of   the evening   or   vespers ) , names   which referred   them   to the planet   Venus , which   according to the time of   year   can be   seen   near   the   horizon   before sunrise   or   after sunset .
The first form of elemental phosphorus to be produced (white phosphorus, in 1669) emits a faint glow upon exposure to  oxygen – hence its name given from Greek mythology,  Φωσφόρος  meaning "light-bearer" (Latin  Lucifer ), referring to the " Morning Star ", the planet  Venus . Although the term " phosphorescence ", meaning glow after illumination, derives from this property of phosphorus, the glow of phosphorus originates from oxidation of the white (but not red) phosphorus and should be called  chemiluminescence .
Bacchic  Villa of the Mysteries  in  Pompeii
Goat = horns = Satan
Dionysian Mysteries
The  Dionysian Mysteries  were a  ritual  of ancient Greece  and  Rome  which used intoxicants  and other trance-inducing techniques, such as dance and music, to remove inhibitions and artificial societal constraints, liberating the individual to return to a more natural and primal state. It also afforded a degree of liberation for the marginals of Greek society: women, slaves and foreigners. In their final phase the Mysteries apparently shifted from a  chthonic , primeval orientation to a transcendental, mystical one, with  Dionysus  altering his nature accordingly (much in the same way as happened in the cult of  Shiva ). By its nature as a  mystery religion  reserved for the initiated, most aspects of the Dionysian cult remain unknown and were lost with the decline of Greco-Roman polytheism . Our current knowledge is largely based on descriptions, imagery and comparative cross-cultural studies.
The rites were based on a seasonal death-rebirth theme and on spirit possession. The death-rebirth theme is supposedly common to all vegetation cults. The  Osirian Mysteries , for example, closely paralleled the Dionysian, according to contemporary Greek and Egyptian observers. Spirit possession involved an 'atavistic' liberation from the constraints of civilization and its rules. It was a celebration of all that was outside civilized society and a return to the source of being—something that would later take on mystical connotations. It also involved an escape from the socialized personality and ego either into an ecstatic, deified state or into a primal herd, often both. Dionysus, in this sense, was the 'beast god' within, or as we moderns might conceive it, and as  Jung  certainly saw it, the  unconscious mind . Such activity has been interpreted variously as fertilizing, invigorating, cathartic, liberational and even transformative. Thus it is not surprising that many of the devotees of Dionysus were originally the outsiders of mainstream society: women, slaves, outlaws and foreigners—non-citizens under Greek democracy. All of these were considered equal in a cult that appears often to have transgressively inverted their roles, much like the Roman  Saturnalia .
Although much scholarship in these studies, like so much of ancient history, is based on educated guesswork, we do have some insight into the female initiation process through the murals of the Bacchic  Villa of the Mysteries  in  Pompeii . Here a series of murals painted on the walls of an initiation chamber have been almost perfectly preserved after the eruption of  Vesuvius , though there remains controversy as to whether the entire process is shown and how it should be interpreted. The first mural shows a noble Roman woman, possibly the initiate's mother who can cross no further, approaching a priestess or matron seated on a throne, by which stands a small boy reading a scroll. This is presumably the declaration of the initiation. On the other side of the throne the young initiate is shown, in a purple robe and myrtle crown, holding a sprig of laurel, and a tray of cakes. She appears to have been transformed into a serving girl, but could just be bringing a gift as an offering to the god/goddess.
The second mural depicts another priestess, or senior initiate, and her assistants preparing the Liknon basket; at her feet are mysterious mushroom shaped objects, which some find suggestive. To one side a  sileni  (a horse elemental) is generating musical ambiance on a lyre. (Silenus was the tutor and companion of Dionysus.)
Amanita muscaria , commonly known as the  fly agaric  (pronounced  /ˈæɡərɪk/ ) or  fly Amanita (pronounced  /ˌæməˈnaɪtə/ ), is a poisonous and psychoactive   basidiomycete   fungus , one of many in the genus  Amanita .
Persephone and the sacred mushroom
Blue smurf and sacred mushroom / 666 Walt Disney
DMT the Spirit Molecule video
Same colours of amanita muscaria and the blue sulfur enlightenment codex
Phrygian cup of French Freemason illuminati Revolution
Attis  ( Ancient Greek :  Ἄττις  or  Ἄττης ) was the consort of
Cybele  in  Phrygian  and  Greek mythology
The third mural shows a  satyr  playing the  panpipes  and a  nymph  suckling a goat in an Arcadian scene. To their right the initiate is shown in a state of panic. This is the last time we see her for a few scenes; when she appears again she has undergone a change that is not specifically shown. Some scholars think a katabasis occurs now, others disagree.
In the direction in which she stares in horror, another mural shows a young Satyr being offered a bowl of something (probably wine) by a Silenus, while behind him another Satyr holds up a frightening mask, which the drinking or peering satyr seems to see reflected in the bowl. This may parallel the mirror into which a young Dionysus stares in the Orphic rites. Next to them sits an enthroned goddess ( Ariadne  or  Semele ) with Dionysus/Bacchus lying erotically across her lap.
The next mural sees the initiate returning, she now carries a staff and wears a cap, items often presented after the successful completion of an initiation ordeal. She kneels before the priestess and then appears to be whipped by a winged female figure. Next to her is a dancing figure, a  Maenad  or  Thyiad , and a gowned figure with a  thyrsus , an initiation symbol of Dionysus, that is made of long stalks of wrapped fennel with a pine cone on top.
In her penultimate appearance we see her being prepared with new clothes, while an  Eros  holds up a mirror to her. After this scene there is another image of Eros.
Finally we assume the initiate is shown enthroned and in an elaborate costume. This is all we definitely know of the Roman rites of initiation. (Linda Fierz-David, Katherine Bradway, Nor Hall, and Mary Beard are several excellent sources on interpreting these murals.)
Locus coeruleus                    The  Locus coeruleus , also spelled  locus caeruleus , is a nucleus in the  brain stem involved with  physiological  responses to stress  and  panic . It was discovered in the 18th century by  Félix Vicq-d'Azyr . Its name is derived from the Latin words "coeruleus" and "locus". Literally, this means  "the blue spot" , a name derived from its azure appearance in unstained brain tissue. The color is due to light scattering from  melanin  in  noradrenergic  nerve cell bodies.  Caeruleus  is the classical Latin spelling, but  coeruleus , a more archaic form, is the more common spelling. The spelling  ceruleus , formed by contraction of the digraph ae or oe into e, is an  American English  form.
Goddess Kali depicted blue
The locus coeruleus may figure in  clinical depression ,  panic disorder , and  anxiety . Some medications including  norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors  ( reboxetine ,  atomoxetine ), serotonin-norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors  ( venlafaxine ), and  norepinephrine-dopamine reuptake inhibitors  ( bupropion ) are believed show efficacy by acting upon  neurons  in this area. This area of the brain is also intimately involved in  REM sleep .
Blue God Amun
Aztec God Tlaloc
THE MEANING OF THE SERPENT AND DRAGON CODES
NO REPTILIAN DAVID ICKE DISINFORMATION PLEASE
Seven chakras and seven rays of light
Spectral lines of sulfur
Melatonin
DMT
N , N -Dimethyltryptamine  ( DMT ) is a  naturally occurring   psychedelic  compound of the  tryptamine  family. DMT is found not only in several plants, [3]  but also in trace amounts in humans and other mammals, where it is originally derived from the  essential amino acid   tryptophan , and ultimately produced by the enzyme  INMT  during normal metabolism . [4]  The natural function of its widespread presence remains undetermined. Structurally , DMT is analogous to the neurotransmitter   serotonin  (5-HT), the  hormone   melatonin , and other  psychedelic tryptamines, such as  5-MeO-DMT ,  bufotenin , and  psilocin  (the active metabolite of  psilocybin ).
Meditation increases melatonin
Melatonin, one of the principal hormones producted by the pineal gland - also called the "third eye" - has received a lot of puboicity in its recent incarnation as little pills ingested to reset the body's biological clock after jet lag.  New research is showing that meditation may be an even more effective method of melatonin production, according to studies reported in  Brain/Mind Bulletin.
When researchers at the University of Massachusetts Medical Center compared a group of meditators with a matched group of meditators, they found evidence of greater urinary traces of melatonin in the meditators.  A related study at the University of Western Ontario Research Park found increases in urinary traces in melatonin after a single meditation session.  The effect was observed in all subjects and was greater than that seen following ingestion of the melatonin tablets.
Vatican pine court
Bank of England
The  pineal gland  (also called the  pineal body ,  epiphysis cerebri ,  epiphysis  or the " third eye ") is a small  endocrine  gland in the  vertebrate   brain . It produces the serotonin  derivative  melatonin , a  hormone that affects the modulation of wake/sleep patterns and seasonal functions. [1] [2]  Its shape resembles a tiny pine cone (hence its name), and it is located near the center of the brain, between the two hemispheres , tucked in a groove where the two rounded  thalamic bodies  join.
The pineal gland is reddish-gray and about the size of a grain of rice (5–8 mm) in humans, located just rostro-dorsal to the  superior colliculus  and behind and beneath the  stria medullaris , between the laterally positioned  thalamic bodies . It is part of the  epithalamus . The pineal gland is a midline structure, and is often seen in plain  skull   X-rays , as it is often  calcified . Chemical analysis shows that they are composed of  calcium phosphate ,  calcium carbonate ,  magnesium phosphate , and  ammonium phosphate . [4]  In 2002, deposits of the  calcite  form of calcium carbonate were described. [5]  Calcium, phosphorus [6]  and  fluoride [7]  ( because of fluoride water, tooth pastes, others ) deposits in the pineal gland have been linked with aging.
PHOSPHATE ENLIGHTENMENT  Chemiluminescence  The first form of elemental phosphorus to be produced (white phosphorus, in 1669) emits a faint glow upon exposure to  oxygen – hence its name given from Greek mythology,  Φωσφόρος  meaning "light-bearer" (Latin  Lucifer ), referring to the " Morning Star ", the planet  Venus . Although the term " phosphorescence ", meaning glow after illumination, derives from this property of phosphorus, the glow of phosphorus originates from oxidation of the white (but not red) phosphorus and should be called  chemiluminescence .
Abstract
A novel blue-emitting phosphor of Eu 2+ -activated NaMgPO 4  was prepared by combustion-assisted synthesis. Sodium dihydrogen phosphate and magnesium nitrate were used as the source of Na, P and Mg, respectively. The ratios of magnesium and phosphorus components that were dissolved into the combustion solution were changed from 1:1 to 1:1.3. Their effect on the crystallinities and photoluminescence spectra of the phosphor particles were investigated. The post-heated phosphor particles had a broad excitation wavelength that ranged from 240 to 410 nm. The phosphor particles prepared from the combustion solution with a 1:1.2 ratio of magnesium to phosphorus had maximum emission intensity under ultraviolet excitation. The effect of doped Eu 2+  concentration on the emission intensity of NaMgPO 4 :Eu 2+  was also investigated.
Fire fly Luciferin ( Sulfur atoms )
Firefly luciferin  is the  luciferin , or light-emitting compound, found in many  firefly (Lampyridae) species. It is the substrate of luciferase  ( EC  1.13.12.7), which is responsible for the characteristic yellow light emission from many  firefly  species. As with all other luciferins, oxygen is required to elicit light; however, it has also been found that ATP  and  magnesium  are required for light emission. [1] [2]
Pinealocytes  in many non-mammalian  vertebrates  have a strong resemblance to the  photoreceptor cells  of the  eye . Some evolutionary biologists believe that the vertebrate pineal cells share a common  evolutionary  ancestor with retinal cells. [8] In some vertebrates, exposure to light can set off a chain reaction of enzymatic events within the pineal gland that regulate  circadian rhythms . [9]  Some early vertebrate fossil skulls have a pineal  foramen  (opening). This correlates with the physiology of the modern " living fossils ," the  lamprey  and the  tuatara , and some other vertebrates that have a  parietal organ or "third eye," which, in some of them, is photosensitive.
Third eye on Iguana and the Dragon myth
The all seeing eye of Lucifer, the Light bearer  as stated by Albert Pike
The third eye represents evolution's earlier approach to photoreception. [10]  The structures of the third eye in the tuatara are homologous to the cornea, lens and retina, though the latter resembles that of an octopus rather than a vertebrate retina. The asymmetrical whole consists of the "eye" to the left and the pineal sac to the right. "In animals that have lost the parietal eye, including mammals, the pineal sac is retained and condensed into the form of the pineal gland."
Many lizards have a third eye called a parietal eye (or pineal eye). With this eye they cannot see 3D figures or images as we do with our eyes, but they do see shadows (changes in light/darkness). Have you ever noticed a lizard react to a large bird flying overhead by scurrying away? Did you notice the lizard never looked up, yet somehow he knew the bird was there? Of course, some do look up, but many don't ...they don't have to. That is because his parietal eye detected the   shadow   the bird cast as it crossed overhead. Iguanidae (lizards in the Iguana family) and Tuataras, and probably others, have this parietal eye.
Chameleons have specialized cells, collectively called  chromatophores , that lie in layers under their transparent outer skin. The cells in the upper layer, called  xanthophores  and erythrophores , contain yellow and red  pigments  respectively. Below these is another layer of cells called  iridophores  or  guanophores , and they contain the colorless crystalline substance  guanine . These are particularly strong reflectors of the blue part of incident  light . If the upper layer of chromatophores appears mainly yellow, the reflected light becomes green  ( blue  plus  yellow ). A layer of dark  melanin  contained in melanophores is situated even deeper under the reflective iridophores. The melanophores determine the 'lightness' of the reflected light. These specialized cells are full of pigment granules, which are located in their cytoplasm. Dispersion of the pigment granules in the cell grants the intensity of appropriate color. If the pigment is equally distributed in the cell, the whole cell has the intensive color, which depends on the type of chromatophore cell. If the pigment is located only in the centre of the cell, cell appears to be transparent. All these pigment cells can rapidly relocate their pigments, thereby influencing the color of the chameleon.
THE GOLDEN FLEECE AND THE ILLUMINATI
JASON GREEK LEAGACY AND OUR MODERN ORPHIC ILLUMINATI  NO MORE MYSTERIOUS ORDER
more information
VATICAN MUSEUM
Philip III, Duke of Burgundy , with the collar of the
Order (portrait in c.1450 by  Rogier van der Weyden )
The  Order of the Golden Fleece  ( German : Orden vom Goldenen Vlies ;  Dutch :  Orde van het Gulden Vlies ;  French :  Ordre de la Toison d'Or ;  Italian :  Ordine del Toson d'Oro ; Spanish :  Orden del Toisón de Oro ) is an order of chivalry  founded in  Bruges  in 1430 by Duke  Philip III  of  Burgundy  ( red purple colour ) to celebrate his marriage to the  Portuguese  princess Isabella of Aviz .
The Order of the Golden Fleece was established January 10, 1430, by Philip the Good, Duke of Burgundy, in celebration of the prosperous and wealthy domains united in his person that ran from Flanders to Switzerland. It is restricted to a limited number of  knights , initially 24 but increased to 30 in 1433, and 50 in 1516, plus the sovereign. [1]  It received further privileges unusual to any order of knighthood: the sovereign undertook to consult the order before going to war; all disputes between the knights were to be settled by the order; at each chapter the deeds of each knight were held in review, and punishments and admonitions were dealt out to offenders, and to this the sovereign was expressly subject; the knights could claim as of right to be tried by their fellows on charges of rebellion, heresy and treason, and Charles V conferred on the order exclusive jurisdiction over all crimes committed by the knights; the arrest of the offender had to be by warrant signed by at least six knights, and during the process of charge and trial he remained not in prison but in the gentle custody of his fellow knights. The order, conceived in an ecclesiastical spirit in which  mass  and  obsequies  were prominent and the knights were seated in choirstalls like  canons , [2]  was explicitly denied to "heretics", and so became an exclusively  Catholic  award during the  Reformation .
Fabian English Society left illusion  for dreamers
Follow the Orphic mysteries of the serpent and you will find  heads of the
wolves under the golden fleece
Living members of the Order §
Juan Carlos I, King of Spain   (b. 1938) sovereign of the order §
Carlos, Duke of Calabria   (b. 1938) §
Constantine II, King of the Hellenes   (b. 1940) §
Felipe, Prince of Asturias   (b. 1968) §
Carl XVI Gustaf, King of Sweden   (b. 1946) §
Jean, Prince of Luxembourg   (b. 1921) Grand Duke of Luxembourg   (1964–2000) §
Akihito, Emperor of Japan   (b. 1933) §
Beatrix, Queen of the Netherlands   (b. 1938) §
Margrethe II, Queen of Denmark   (b. 1940) §
Elizabeth II, Queen of the United Kingdom and the Commonwealth Realms   (b. 1926) §
Albert II, King of the Belgians   (b. 1934) §
Harald V, King of Norway   (b. 1937) §
Simeon Saxe-Coburg-Gotha [6]   (b. 1937) Tsar of Bulgaria   (1943–1946) and Prime Minister of   Bulgaria   (2001–2005) §
Bhumibol Adulyadej, King of Thailand   (b. 1927) §
Henri, Grand Duke of Luxembourg [7]   (b. 1955) §
Adolfo Suárez González ,   Duke of Suárez [8]   (b.1932) Prime Minister of   Spain   (1976–1981) §
Abdullah, King of Saudi Arabia .   Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques [9]   (b. 1924) §
Javier Solana [10]   (b. 1942) §
Víctor García de la Concha [11]   (b. 1934)
Archduke Otto of Austria, Crown Prince of Austria, Hungary and Bohemia  (b. 1912)
Archduke Felix of Austria  (b. 1916)
Archduke Heinrich of Austria (b. 1925)
Archduke Franz Salvator of Austria, Prince of Tuscany (b. 1927)
Archduke Joseph Arpád of Austria (b. 1933)
Franz, Duke of Bavaria  (b. 1933)
Count Johann Larisch of Moennich (b. 1917)
Archduke Charles of Austria  (b. 1961)
Archduke Andreas Salvator of Austria, Prince of Tuscany (b. 1936)
Archduke Karl Salvator of Austria, Prince of Tuscany (b. 1936)
Prince Lorenz of Belgium, Archduke of Austria-Este  (b. 1955)
Archduke Michael Koloman of Austria (b. 1942)
Archduke Michael Salvator of Austria, Prince of Tuscany (b. 1949)
Archduke Georg of Austria-Hungary  (b. 1964)
Archduke Carl Christian of Austria (b. 1954)
Archduke Joseph of Austria (b. 1933)
Prince Rasso of Bavaria  (b. 1926)
Albert II, King of the Belgians  (b. 1934)
Jean, Grand Duke of Luxembourg  (b. 1921)
Antoine, Prince of Ligne (b. 1925)
Renaud, Viscount of Chabot-Tramecourt (b. 1921)
Prince Albrecht of Hohenberg (b. 1931)
Carl, Duke of Württemberg  (b. 1936)
Maria Emanuel, Margrave of Meissen  (b. 1926)
Nikolaus, Prince of Lobkowicz (b. 1931)
Count Johannes Hoyos-Sprinzenstein (b. 1923)
Georg, Fürst von Waldburg zu Zeil und Trauchburg (b. 1928)
Hans-Adam II, Prince of Liechtenstein  (b. 1945)
Prince Clemens of Altenburg (b. 1932)
Duarte Pio, Duke of Bragança  (b. 1945)
Georg, Duke of Hohenberg  (b. 1929)
Karel Schwarzenberg, Prince of Schwarzenberg  (b. 1937)
Joseph, Archduke of Austria (b. 1960)
Max, Prince of Khevenhüller-Metsch (b. 1919)
Aloys-Konstantin, Prince of Löwenstein-Wertheim-Rosenberg (b. 1941)
Count Gotfried of Czernin of Chudenitz
Heinrich, Prince of Orsini and Rosenberg (b. 1925)
Mariano Hugo, Prince of Windisch-Graetz  (b. 1955)
Olivier, Count of Ormesson
Baron Johann Friedrich of Solemacher-Antweiler
Baron Nikola Adamovich de Csepin
LIST OF KNIGHTS OF THE GOLDEN FLEECE
FOLLOW THE BAV- ARIAN  ILLUMINATI BLOODLINES
THE OTHER RHOMBOID DODECAHEDRON SACRED LUCIFERIAN STONE ?
LAPIS LAZULI
The blue color comes from sulfur in the mineral lazurite                                                           The intense blue color is due to the presence of the
S 3 -  SULFUR  radical anion in the crystal. [11]  An electronic excitation of one electron from the highest doubly filled molecular orbital (No. 24) into the lowest singly occupied orbital (No. 25) [12]  results in a very intense absorption at λ max  ~617 nm.
Lapis lazuli  (   / ˈ l æ p ɪ s   ˈ l æ z j ʉ l aɪ /  or  / ˈ l æ z j ʉ l i / LAP -iss   LAZ -zew-ly/lee , [1]   Persian :  لاژورد ) (sometimes abbreviated to  lapis ) is a relatively rare  semi-precious stone  that has been prized since  antiquity  for its intense  blue  color. Lapis lazuli has been mined from mines in the  Badakhshan  province of  Afghanistan  for over 6,000 years and there are sources that are found as far east as in the region around Lake Baikal  in  Siberia . Trade in the stone is ancient enough for lapis jewelry to have been found at  Predynastic Egyptian  sites, and as lapis beads at  neolithic  burials in  Mehrgarh , the  Caucasus , and even as far from Afghanistan as  Mauritania . [2]
Lapis lazuli is a  rock , largely formed from the mineral   lazurite . [ 3 ] The main component of lapis lazuli is  lazurite (25% to 40%), Lapis  is the  Latin  for "stone" and  lazuli  the genitive  form of the  Medieval Latin   lazulum , which is from the  Arabic   لازورد lāzaward , which is ultimately from the  Persian   لاژورد   lāzhward , the name of a place where lapis lazuli was mined. [5] [6]  The name of the place came to be associated with the stone mined there and, eventually, with its color. The  English  word  azure , the  French   azur , the Italian  azzurro , the Polish   lazur  and the  Spanish  and  Portuguese   azul  are  cognates . Taken as a whole,  lapis lazuli  means "stone of Lāzhward"
Egyptians especially revere the heaven struck Lapis Lazuli. Various chapters of their Book Of The Dead were carved on stones. Prayers and incantations within the chapters provided safe passage for those traveling into the next life. Amulets such as the heart and the tet (a hieroglyph representing stability and preservation) are needed for this journey as well. The book recommends Lapis Lazuli, Carnelian and Jet as some of the gems for this purpose. The Egyptian Book Of The Dead describes a monthly ceremony using a Lapis Lazuli carved in the shape of an eye and decorated with Gold. It was believed that Ra, their supreme God, would put a similar image on his forehead at the same time.
As always Satan for our children
Egyptians also used the gem to create the original blue eye shadows and as a dye for clothing. It was extremely popular as a carved scarab and countless pieces of jewelry have been found in the pyramids with Lapis stones.
King Solomon was given a Lapis ring by an Angel which enabled him to control legions of demons. He used this powerful ring to build his great temple.
The Romans used pulverized Lapis Lazuli as an aphrodisiac; it was also taken as an antidote to poisons. In Rome it was called Arminaqun, because it traveled through Armenia to reach the Roman citizens. Assyrians referred to the gem as Uknu. It was one of the stones set in a medallion to be worn upon their king's breast.
Egyptians especially revere the heaven struck Lapis Lazuli. Various chapters of their Book Of The Dead were carved on stones. Prayers and incantations within the chapters provided safe passage for those traveling into the next life. Amulets such as the heart and the tet (a hieroglyph representing stability and preservation) are needed for this journey as well. The book recommends Lapis Lazuli, Carnelian and Jet as some of the gems for this purpose.
Two entire chapters from the book are inscribed onto Lapis Lazuli. The 26th and 140th chapters. The 140th is carved on the reverse of a Lapis Lazuli eye, outlined and highlighted with gold. The high priest is expected to wear Mat's image (Goddess of Truth) carved from the gem.
Women in Egypt crushed the gem into a powder to wear as eye shadow. Probably something of a health hazard, considering its Aluminum content.
The breast plate of the Hebrew High Priest is also adorned with Lapis Lazuli. It is one of twelve stones (representing each of the twelve months) prescribed in the old testament. The Assyrian Kings wore a breast amulet decorated with seven stones, Lapis was the fifth.
In the tombs of Sumerian kings near the Euphrates River, over 6000 carvings, beads, dishes and seals made from Lapis Lazuli were discovered. Roman soldiers sharpened their swords on the stone believing it would make them invisible. Catherine the Great lined the walls of one of her palaces with the gem.
Inanna's descent to the underworld The story of Inanna's  descent to the underworld  is known from a poem on a relatively intact set of tablets. In  Sumerian religion , the Underworld was conceived of as a dreary, dark place; a home to deceased heroes and ordinary people alike. Based on their behavior, it was believed, they could be afforded better treatment or positions in the underworld. Inanna's reason for visiting the underworld is unclear. The reason she gives to the gatekeeper of the underworld is that she wants to attend her brother-in-law  Gud-gal-ana 's funeral rites. Gugalana was the Bull of Heaven in The Epic of Gilgamesh, killed by Gilgamesh and Enkidu. In this story, before leaving Inanna instructed her minister and servant  Ninshubur  to plead with the gods  Enlil ,  Nanna , and  Enki  to save her if anything went wrong, because everyone that went to the Underworld never came back. Inanna dresses elaborately for the visit, with a turban, a wig, a   lapis lazuli   necklace, beads upon her breast, the 'pala dress' (the ladyship garment), mascara, pectoral, a golden ring on her hand, and she held a lapis lazuli  measuring rod . These garments are each representations of powerful  mes  she possesses. Perhaps Inanna's garments, unsuitable for a funeral, along with Inanna's haughty behaviour, make  Ereshkigal  suspicious. [30] Following Ereshkigal's instructions, the gatekeeper tells Inanna she may enter the first gate of the underworld, but she must hand over her lapis lazuli measuring rod. She asks why, and is told 'It is just the ways of the Underworld'. She obliges and passes through. Inanna passes through a total of seven gates, at each one removing a piece of clothing or jewelry she had been wearing at the start of her journey, thus stripping her of her power. When she arrives in front of her sister, she is naked. "After she had crouched down and had her clothes removed, they were carried away. Then she made her sister Erec-ki-gala rise from her throne, and instead she sat on her throne. The Anna, the seven judges, rendered their decision against her. They looked at her -- it was the look of death. They spoke to her -- it was the speech of anger. They shouted at her -- it was the shout of heavy guilt. The afflicted woman was turned into a corpse. And the corpse was hung on a hook." Ereškigal's hate for Inanna could be referenced in a few other myths. Ereškigal is seen as an accidental 'black sheep' of sorts.She can not leave her kingdom of the Underworld to join the other 'living' gods, and they can not visit her in the Underworld, or else they can never return. Inanna symbolized erotic love and fertility, and contrasts with Ereškigal. Three days and three nights passed, and Ninshubur, following instructions, went to  Enlil , Nanna , and  Enki 's temples, and demanded they save Inanna. The first two gods refused, saying it was her own mess, but  Enki  was deeply troubled and agreed to help. He created two asexual figures named  gala-tura  and the  kur-jara  from the dirt under the fingernails of the gods. He instructed them to appease Ereškigal; and when asked what they wanted, they were to ask for Inanna's corpse and sprinkle it with the food and water of life. However, when they come before Ereshkigal, she is in agony like a woman giving birth, and she offers them what they want, including life-giving rivers of water and fields of grain, if they can relieve her; nonetheless they take only the corpse. Things went as Enki said, and the  gala-tura  and the  kur-jara  were able to revive Inanna. Demons of Ereškigal's followed (or accompanied) Inanna out of the underworld, and insisted that she wasn’t free to go until someone took her place. They first came upon Nincurba and asked to take her. Inanna refused, saying she had helped her as she had asked. They next came upon Cara, Inanna's beautician, still in mourning. The demons said they would take him, but Inanna refused, for he had been there for her. They next came upon Lulal, also in mourning. The demons offered to take him, but Inanna refused. They next came upon  Dumuzi , Inanna's husband. He was sitting in nice clothing underneath a tree and enjoying himself, despite his wife supposedly still being missing in the underworld. Inanna, displeased, decrees that the demons shall take him - and herself uses the same "look of death" etc. that was previously used upon her by Ereshkigal. Dumuzi tried to escape his fate, but a fly told Inanna and the demons where he was. However, Dumuzi's sister, out of love for him, begged to be allowed to take his place. It was then decreed that Dumuzi spent half the year in the underworld, and his sister take the other half. Inanna eventually regrets sending her husband to the underworld and begins to miss him. The fertility that she controls with her godly powers begins to fade when she misses her husband during the 6 months that he is in the underworld a year. This infertile time corresponds to the fall and winter months. When her husband's sister is in the underworld and Dumuzi is with Inanna, everything is filled with love and with life; this time corresponds to Spring and Summer.
Sulfur Spectrum   ( Raimbow 7 rays )
Rosicrucian symbolic cross
Note the red seed, red sol, red elixir, sulfur and the Dragon
Holy grail always depicted with red hair, the sared Bablyon  whore
Pheomelanin code ( sulfur atoms )
Secret Symbols of the Rosicrucians from the 16th and 17th century:from an old Mscpt. For the first set to light: first - [third] Issue (1785 - [1788] )
Albedo is also represented by Aurora, the Roman goddess of the dawn. Her brother is Helios, the Sun. With a play of words aurora was connected with aurea hora, ‘the hour of gold’. It is a supreme state of conscious. Pernety (1758): "When the Artist (=Alchemist) sees the perfect whiteness, the Philosophers say that one has to destroy the books, because they have become superfluous."
Albedo is also symbolized by the morning star Venus/Aphrodite. Venus has a special place in the Great Work. In ancient times Lucifer was identified with the planet Venus. Originally Lucifer has a very positive meaning. In the Bible we find 2Petrus 1:19 "…till the day arrives and the morning star rises in your hearts". In Revelation 12:16 Christ says: "I am the shining morning star". Here Christ identifies himself with the Lucifer! We find the same in mystic literature. In ancient times Lucifer was a positive light being. It was just one man who changed all that: when a certain Hieronymous read a phrase from Jesaja 14:12 (Jesaja talking to a sinful king of Babylon): " How did you fall from heaven, you morning star, you son of the dawn; how did you fall to earth, conqueror of people". Hieronymous used this phrase to identify Lucifer with the dragon thrown out of heaven by Michael. By the interpretation of this one man, Lucifer was tuned from a shining light being into the darkest devilish being in the world.     We find Lucifer in alchemy associated with impure metals polluted by rough sulfur. It means that the light being Lucifer in ourselves is polluted by what the alchemists call ‘superfluities’, ‘dross’, caused by man himself.     Mercury and Lucifer are one and the same. One talks about Mercury when he is pure, it is the white sulphur, the fire in heaven. As ‘spiritus’ he gives life. As ‘spiritus sapiens’ he teaches the alchemist the Great Work. Lucifer is the impure Mercury. Lucifer is the morning star fallen from (the golden) heaven. He descended into the earth and is now present in all humans. Lucifer is Mercury mixed with impure elements. He dissolved ‘in sulfur and salt’, ‘is wrapped with strings’, ‘darkened with black mud’. Keep in mind we are always talking about our consciousness. Lucifer represents our everyday consciousness, all the (psychological and other) complexes have clouded our pure consciousness, Mercury.     The light of Mercury that appears to us as Lucifer, because of the distortion caused by the impurities, gives the impression of what the alchemists called ‘red sulfur’. The red sulfur of Lucifer, as traditional devil, is actually an illusion. It does not exist by itself because it is only an image, a distorted image of Mercury. We ourselves caused the impurities, the blackness that veils our true light being.     Red sulfur is the same as what is called Maya in eastern philosophies. Maya is the world of illusions, or the veil that prevents us from seeing and experiencing true reality, where the eternal light is. By the impurities of Maya, man has become ignorant. He has forgotten his origin and thinks he is in a world which in actuality is an illusion. According to  Paracelsus , the  Three Primes  or  Tria Prima  are Mercury  (fluid connection between the High and the Low)
Sulfur  (omnipresent spirit of life)
Salt  (base matter)
Four basic elements Fire
Water
Earth
Air
After Ishtar descends to the underworld, all sexual activity ceases on earth. The god Papsukal reports the situation to Ea, the king of the gods. Ea creates an  intersex  creature called Asu-shu-namir and sends him-her to Ereshkigal, telling him-her to invoke "the name of the great gods" against her and to ask for the bag containing the waters of life. Ereshkigal is enraged when she hears Asu-shu-namir's demand, but she has to give him-her the water of life. Asu-shu-namir sprinkles Ishtar with this water, reviving her. Then Ishtar passes back through the seven gates, getting one article of clothing back at each gate, and is fully clothed as she exits the last gate. Here there is a break in the text of the myth. The text resumes with the following lines: If she (Ishtar) will not grant thee her release,
To Tammuz, the lover of her youth,
Pour out pure waters, pour out fine oil;
With a festival garment deck him that he may play on the flute of
lapis lazuli ,
That the votaries may cheer his liver. [his spirit]
Belili [sister of Tammuz] had gathered the treasure,
With precious stones filled her bosom.
When Belili heard the lament of her brother, she dropped her treasure,
She scattered the precious stones before her,
"Oh, my only brother, do not let me perish!
On the day when Tammuz plays for me on the flute of
lapis lazuli , playing it for me with the
porphyry
ring.
Together with him, play ye for me, ye weepers and lamenting women!
That the dead may rise up and inhale the incense."
PORPHYRY ORE SOURCE OF COPPER VENUS IN ALCHEMY
SAME FEMALE SYMBOL
In the IVth century Costanza, daughter of  Emperor Constantine the Great , was buried in a beautiful porphyry sarcophagus in  S. Costanza . In the XII/XIIIth centuries many ancient porphyry columns were sliced to obtain discs to decorate the pavements of churches (Cosmati mosaics). Fine Cosmati pavements can be seen in  S. Giovanni in Laterano ,  S. Maria Maggiore ,  S. Maria in Cosmedin  and  S. Grisogono .
Porphyry  is a variety of  igneous   rock consisting of large-grained  crystals , such as feldspar  or  quartz , dispersed in a fine-grained feldspathic   matrix  or groundmass. The larger crystals are called  phenocrysts . In its non-geologic, traditional use, the term "porphyry" refers to the purple-red form of this stone, valued for its appearance. The term "porphyry" is from  Greek  and means " purple ". Purple was the color of royalty, and the "Imperial Porphyry" was a deep purple igneous rock with large crystals of  plagioclase . This rock was prized for various monuments and building projects in  Imperial Rome  and later. Planetary metals were "dominated" or "ruled" by one of the seven planets known by the ancients. Although they occasionally have a symbol of their own (denoted by also:), they were usually symbolized by the planet's symbol.
Gold  dominated by  Sol  ☉ ☼ (   )
Silver  dominated by  Luna  ☽ (   )
Copper  dominated by  Venus  ♀ (also:   )
Iron  dominated by  Mars  ♂ (   )
Tin  dominated by  Jupiter  ♃ (   )
Mercury  (quicksilver) dominated by  Mercury  ☿ (   )
Lead  dominated by  Saturn  ♄ (   )
CINNABAR THE SOURCE OF MERCURY
LUCIFER POISON IN YOUR CHILDREN VACCINES
Cinnabar , or  cinnabarite  (red  mercury(II) sulfide  ( Hg S ), native  vermilion ), is the common  ore  of  mercury . The name comes from κινναβαρι ( kinnabari ), a  Greek  word most likely applied by  Theophrastus  to several distinct substances. Other sources say the word comes from the  Persian  شنگرف shangarf  (زینجیفرح  zinjifrah , a word of uncertain origin). In  Latin  it was sometimes known as  minium , meaning also "red lead", though both of these terms now refer specifically to  lead tetroxide .
Lead is dominated by Saturn which is no other than Satan.
Toxicity
See also:  Mercury poisoning Because of the  Mercury  content in cinnabar it can be toxic to human beings. Though ancient peoples in South America often used cinnabar for art, or processed it into refined mercury (as a means to gild silver and gold to objects) "the toxic properties of mercury were well known. It was dangerous to those who mined and processed cinnabar, it caused shaking, loss of sense, and death...data suggest that mercury was retorted from cinnabar and the workers were exposed to the toxic mercury fumes." [10]  Overexposure to Mercury, Mercurialism, was seen as an occupational disease to the ancient Romans, "Mining in the Spanish cinnabar mines of Almaden, 225 km southwest of Madrid, was regarded as being akin to a death sentence due to the shortened life expectancy of the miners, who were slaves or convicts." [11] Cinnabar turned into a fine powder is often referred to as Vermilion which can be used as a food coloring in extremely small amounts. Animal testing has shown Vermilion "proved fatal to animals in the proportion of from thirty to seventy grains, even when applied externally to a wound." [12]
Lilly flower and the hexagram
The Golden Lilly and Yamashita´s Gold - Octopus Bunge
Eli lilly  666 encrypted
Thiomersal   ( INN ) and commonly known in the US as  thimerosal , is an  organomercury compound. This compound is a well established  antiseptic  and  antifungal agent . The pharmaceutical corporation  Eli Lilly and Company  gave thiomersal the trade name  Merthiolate  and it has been used as a preservative  in  vaccines ,  immunoglobulin  preparations,  skin test antigens ,  antivenins , ophthalmic  and nasal products, and  tattoo inks. Its use as a vaccine preservative is controversial , and it is being phased out from routine childhood vaccines in the United States, the  European Union , and a few other countries. [2]
Merthiolate poison supporting sport
In organic chemistry, a  thiol  is a  organosulfur compound  that contains a carbon-bonded  sulfhydryl  (-C-SH or R-SH) group (where R represents an alkane, alkene, or other carbon-containing moiety). Thiols are the sulfur analogue of  alcohols , and the word is a  portmanteau  of "thio" + " alcohol ," with the first word deriving from  Greek  θειον ("thion") = "sulfur". The -SH functional group itself is referred to as either a  thiol group  or a sulfhydryl group .
Thiols are often referred to as  mercaptans . [1] [2]  The term  mercaptan  is derived from the  Latin   mercurium captans  (capturing mercury) [3]  because the thiolate group bonds so strongly with  mercury  compounds.
Red heads and autism due to higher concentrations of Pheomelanin
They always knew....so sad
Due to awareness Thiomerosal is being sold as preservative just on the third world
as an evident eugenic policy.
Bill Gates loves vaccines and hates CO 2
Bill in German means Wilhelm and stands for the captain of the ship, Gates is not  his original family surname, stands for Gates of the underworld or hell.
Hall of tortured souls Excel 95
Bill Gates and David Rockefeller Seed Vault
Rosicrucian Guidestones  and Eugenics
DODECAHEDRON  AND TOTH, HERMES, ENOCH, NOAH
Toth gem, all seeing eye, XP, hexagram,  star of david  3D
Salomons seal and star of David
Porphyrogenitos ( Born in Purple )
Elizabeth 1st    Ophiolatreia
Reconstruction
Ophiolatreia
in Greece
Orphic mysteries of Dyonisos
Le serpent rouge interpretated  by Tracy Twyman
The  Eye of Horus  is a representation of the Grail stone as the “ All-Seeing Eye ” of  Satan , with which all of his direct descendants are able to see as well. This would have to be the “Third Eye” of Hinduism, called the “Ajna” (which comes from “ Az ”, a title used by both  Cain  and  Enoch ). Is this, then the “certain eye” which discovers the “sixty-four dispersed stones of  the   perfect cube ”?
The “perfect cube” is also an important symbol in the ancient mysteries, being representative of the “Philosopher’s Stone” of the alchemists.  Albert Pike  wrote that the  Emerald Tablet was a cube . The cube contains, in its angles, magic numbers. As  Pike  wrote: “If we delineate a cube on a plane surface thus, we have visible 3 faces, and 9 external lines, drawn between 7 points. The complete cube has 3 more faces, making 6; 3 more lines, making 12; and 1 more point, making 8. As the number 12 includes the sacred numbers 3, 5, and 7, and 3 times 3, or 9, and 3 times 3, or 9, and is produced by adding the sacred number 3 to 9, while its own two figures, 1,2, the unit, or monad, and duad, added together, make the sacred number 3; it was called the perfect number; and the cube became the symbol of perfection.”  (4) The “scattered stones” of the cube mentioned in this poem may also refer to the ruined Temple of Solomon, a building whose dimensions, delineated to the architects specifically by  “God”  himself, formed a perfect cube.  Albert Pike  writes of this: “The Holy of Holies of the temple formed a cube, in which, drawn on a plane surface, there are 4+3+2=9 lines visible, and three sides or faces...” Perhaps this is why the unit of measurement used by the Hebrews for the construction of the Temple was called, by Englishmen, the “cubit.”
Given what we know, we can now look at one of the mysteries surrounding  Jean Cocteau , the presumed author of the poem  Le Serpent Rouge , with fresh insight. In the mural he created at the Notre Dame de France in London, he signed his name with the mysterious initials “ D.D.D. ” - a code which has never been explained. But if you consider that “D” is the fourth letter of the alphabet, and then cube the number 4 (4 x 4 x 4, or 4 to the third power), you get  64  - a perfect cube.
… that the Brothers of the BEAUTY of the black woods, escaping the usurpers pursuing them, disseminated while they were fleeing the white Fort.
Jean Cocteau Notredame signed D.D.D  = 4 X 4 X 4 = 64
Note : Sirius black sun and the Isis Sirius Virigin giving birth to the falcon Christ Horus
The Virgin birth aspect also comes from the observation that during certain ages the constellation of Virgo rose with the sun: "At the moment of the Winter Solstice, the constellation Virgo, the Virgin, rose heliacally (with the Sun), having the Sun (Horus) in her bosom. . . . Virgo was Isis; and her representation, carrying a child (Horus) in her arms, exhibited in her temple, was accompanied by this inscription:  " I AM ALL THAT IS, THAT WAS, AND THAT SHALL BE ;  and the fruit which I brought forth is the Sun"  (Albert Pike,  The Morals and Dogma of Scottish Rite Freemasonry , L.H. Jenkins, 1928, p. 455).
the Ancient Egyptians began their calendar in Virgo and ended in Leo, that is why the Sphynx has the head of a Virgin and the Body of a Lion.  When the Sun of God was re-born at the Vernal equinox, it was for a while in the history of mankind in the Constellation of Virgo, so it was said the Sun or as the personified Son, that he was "Born of a Virgin" . The Sun is the "Eye of God" or "Eye of Horus". Ra was the Sun God in Egypt. His full name was Amen Ra. That is why we say "A-men" after our prayers. The Egyptians knew this and all of the Egyptian beliefs and customs are built into our society secretly by the Freemasons.
SIRIUS..THE STAR OF ISIS AND THE VIRGIN First of all Sirius, the brighest star in the sky, and the "Star in the East" in our Gospel accounts, was on the meridian line . The brightest of all the fixed stars is Sirius. Known to astronomers as Alpha Canis Major, it is the principal star of the constellation Canis Major (the Big Dog). The ancient Egyptians called it Septit, the Hebrews knew it as Sihor, to the Greeks as Sothis and also as the "the Dog Star" that followed Orion the Hunter. Sirius has a magnitude of -1.42, which makes it nine times more brilliant than a standard first magnitude star. It can even been seen in daylight with a telescope. Sirius is 23 times as bright as our sun and has almost twice its diameter. Being only 8.7 light-years away, Sirius is the fifth nearest star to our solar system, and the nearest after Alpha Centauri among the naked eye stars. Throughout recorded history, and probably long before, Sirius was the subject of much veneration and myth making throughout the world. Even as late as the 1970s it became the subject of a very controversial theory linked to extra-terrestrials and the Dogon tribe of Mali published by the scholar and author Robert Temple. There is much speculation on the origin of its modern name which is generally thought to be derived from the Greek word "Sirio" meaning "scorching" or "sparkling", apparently because it rose in the height of the summer heat. Some etymologists, however, have suggested a connection with the ancient Egyptian god Osiris. But of all the various names and epithets that this star was given, none can match the notoriety of its role in history as the "Star of Isis". Since earliest times the ancient Egyptian paid particular attention to Sirius, which they identified to the 'soul' of the Goddess Isis. There was a time, very long ago, that Sirius could not be seen in the sky from Egypt. This was because of a phenomenon known as the Precession of the Equinoxes. The Precession is a very slow wobble of our planet taking the polar axis of the Earth in a circular swing of 47 degrees every 26,000 years. The general effect is that the stellar landscape appears to swing up and down like a pendulum. Before the 12th millennium BC Sirius was below the horizon line as seen from the region of Cairo/Giza. It made its first appearance in the skies at that place in c.10,500 BC. Then it had a declination of about 58 degrees 43', which meant it would have just been visible in the south about 1.5 degree above the horizon line. For early man to witnessing the 'birth' of such a bright star must have been a very impressive sight rich with meaning and messages from the gods.  Also the rising of Sirius occurred when the constellation of Virgo was rising in the east, which may partly explain why the star became the symbol of a virgin-goddess. We do not know when exactly Sirius became identified to the goddess Isis, but the idea certainly goes back to the origin of Egyptian culture. It was from the 'womb' of Isis-Sirius that was born the divine child, Horus.  Since earliest times the ancient Egyptian paid particular attention to Sirius, which they identified to the 'soul' of the Goddess Isis. There was a time, very long ago, that Sirius could not be seen in the sky from Egypt. This was because of a phenomenon known as the Precession of the Equinoxes. The Precession is a very slow wobble of our planet taking the polar axis of the Earth in a circular swing of 47 degrees every 26,000 years. The general effect is that the stellar landscape appears to swing up and down like a pendulum. Before the 12th millennium BC Sirius was below the horizon line as seen from the region of Cairo/Giza. It made its first appearance in the skies at that place in c.10,500 BC. Then it had a declination of about 58 degrees 43', which meant it would have just been visible in the south about 1.5 degree above the horizon line. For early man to witnessing the 'birth' of such a bright star must have been a very impressive sight rich with meaning and messages from the gods. Also the rising of Sirius occurred when the constellation of Virgo was  rising in the east.  This event, the rising of Sirius at the same time that Virgo was rising in the east partly explains why the star became the symbol of a virgin-goddess. We do not know when exactly Sirius became identified to the goddess Isis, but the idea certainly goes back to the origin of Egyptian culture. It was from the 'womb' of Isis-Sirius that was born the divine child, Horus. To understand how Virgo was connected with the "virgin birth" we need to understand the myth of Isis and Osiris.  We find that Isis and Osiris were among the four children born from the womb of the sky-goddess, Nut and fathered by Ra, the sungod. The other two children were Seth and Nephtys. Osiris took Isis as his wife, and they became the first rulers of Egypt. At the age of 28 Osiris was brutally murdered by his jealous brother Seth and his body cut into fourteen pieces.  Isis recovered all of the pieces of Osiris' body except the phallus , which she could not find.  Isis fashioned an artificial phallus for Osiris, placed herself on it in the form of a kite, and became pregnant with his seed.  This was a type of virginal insemination by other means than natural intercourse. She then went into hiding in the marshes of the Nile, and gave birth to Horus. This as you can see begins to pattern the Jesus story of the virgin birth from being overshawed by the Holy Spirit of God and the hiding from an evil one who desired to kill the new born child.  From the Pyramid Texts and various other religious writings, it is clear that this myth has its counterpart in the stars, with Isis identified to Sirius and Osiris to the constellation of Orion . In the Pyramid Texts it is said of Osiris-Orion: "Your sister Isis comes to you rejoicing for love of you. You have placed her on your phallus and your seed issues in her, she being ready as Sirius, and Horus Sopd (a star) has come forth from you as Horus who is in Sirius…" [Pyr. Text line 632] Recreating the ancient skies of the early Dynastic Era (c.3300 BC) which took place just before the great Pyramid Age (c.2750 - 2100 BC) we find that the star Sirius performed a very evocative cycle in the heavens which readily explains why it was associated to a magical birth. Because the earth moves around the sun, the fixed background of the stars appears to shift throughout the year in relation to the sun. Yearly observations of Sirius, for example, would show that there is a time when the star sets in the west immediately after sunset. After that the star is no longer visible for a period of about 70 days. It will reappear again, however, just before sunrise in the east.  This reappearance is known as the heliacal rising of the star.   In c. 3300 BC the heliacal rising of Sirius occurred exactly on the day of the summer solstice (21 June Gregorian). The striking conjunction of the heliacal rising of Sirius and the summer solstice in 3300 BC was, in itself, a powerful omen; but there was something else also occurring at the same time which, quite literally, caused the whole of Egypt to be reborn. This was the annual flooding of the Nile.  In ancient times the Nile would begin to swell in early June caused by the huge volume of water brought down river by the melting snows in the highlands of Central Africa. By late June the water would begin to spill over the banks to eventually flood the whole Nile Valley by end July. We know for certain that the ancient Egyptians considered the heliacal rising of Sirius to be the magical cause of the Nile Flood.  To a land that gets little if any rain the flooding of the Nile was their salvation from God above and it was connected with the rising of Sirius and Virgo in the east.   The heliacal rising of Sirius became the celestial sign that marked the beginning of the New Year.  There are many ancient texts which refer to the conjunction of the 'New Year', the summer solstice, the start of the Flood and the appearance of Sirius which shows that this event was of the utmost importance to the Egyptians. The oldest of these texts is carved on a small ivory tablet dated to the 1st Dynasty (c. 3100 BC) where it is said that  "Sirius is the Opener of the Year's Flood".  The very same notion is given in the Pyramid Texts (c. 2200 BC), where it is stated that:  "It is Sirius, the beloved daughter (of Ra, the Sun-god), who prepares yearly sustenance (the flood) for you in her name of 'Year'".  In his book Echoes of Ancient Skies, the archaeo-astronomer Dr. Ed Krupp writes that, "After disappearing from the night sky (for 70 days) Sirius eventually reappears in the dawn, before the sun come up. The first time this occurs each year is called the star's heliacal rising, and on this day Sirius remains visible for only a short time before the sky gets too bright to see it.  In ancient Egypt this annual reappearance of Sirius fell close to the summer solstice and coincided with the time of the Nile's inundation.  Isis, as Sirius, was the 'Mistress of the Year's beginning', for the Egyptian new year was set by this event. New Year's ceremony texts at Dendera say Isis coaxes out the Nile and causes it to swell. The metaphor is astronomical, hydraulic, and sexual, and it parallels the function of Isis in the myth. Sirius revives the Nile just as Isis revives Osiris. Her time in hiding from Seth is when Sirius is gone (70 days) from the night sky.  She (Isis) gives birth to her son Horus, as Sirius gives birth to the new year, and in the texts Horus and the new year are equated.  She is the vehicle for renewal of life and order. Shining for a moment, one morning in summer, she stimulates the Nile and starts the year." So we must envision that the Virgo was rising in the East at the same time Sirus was visible in the east as well. But also Orion, called "The Three Kings" by oriental astronomers, was in proximity to these other two constellations as well. Also the line of the ecliptic, of the equator and of the horizon all met in the constellation  of Virgo. This was a site to behold and captured the minds of men and yet do today at this myth lives among us today. It is interesting also to note that the brightest and largest star in the constellation Virgo is called Spica; it is to be found in the "ear of corn" (sign of fertility) which the Virgin holds. Bethlehem means the "house of bread," and there is therefore an obvious connection between these two words.  These are astronomical facts.  The interpretation of the symbolism attached from ancient days to these constellations is as old as religion itself. Whence came the signs, and how the meanings and symbols associated with them came into being, is lost in the night of time. They have existed in men's minds and thoughts and writings for thousands of years, and are our joint heritage today.  We find it at the very heart of Christianity.
Note Sirius black  Black Sun ( Nazis Luciferian symbol )
Himmler´s Nazi castle of Occult operations at Wewelsburg ( Scarab )
depicting the Black Sun.( Sirius )
Black sun in Denver Masonic underground refuge airport
Denver Masonic airport pale apocalyptic horse statue
Revelation 9:17
The horses and riders I saw in my vision looked like this: Their breastplates were fiery red, dark blue, and yellow as sulfur. The heads of the horses resembled the heads of lions, and out of their mouths came fire, smoke and sulfu r
Pale horse and Porsche
Inside Job ( Porsche = VW = Kafer = Kepher = Scarab )
Bracken House, London.
The Black Sun beares the face of Winston illuminati Churchill.
Churchill V or Satan horns ?
British Occultist  Aleister Crowley  claimed to have invented the usage of a V-sign as a magical foil to the  Nazis' use of the Swastika  in February 1941. He maintained that he passed this to friends at the  BBC , and to the British  Naval Intelligence Division  through his connections in  MI5 , eventually gaining the approval of  Winston Churchill . Crowley pointed out that in his 1913 publication  Magick  a V-sign and a swastika appear on the same plate.
Dodecahedron construction 4.4.4
Hypercube 1
Hyeypercube 2
Hypercube or Tesseract rotation
Why the Rhombic Dodecahedron is a Shadow of the 4-Dimensional Hypercube ? (Contributed February 13, 1997 by Russell Towle)
When confronted with the abstraction of higher space, we often imagine something mystical or magical, or perhaps recall H.G. Wells' assignment of Time as the fourth dimension. Then again, there are cosmologies recently advanced which invoke a 10-dimensional space at the time our universe began, subsequently thought to have collapsed or foreshortened into but five or six dimensions. I have my doubts about such theories, and when I expressed these to my childhood friend, Dr. Michio Kaku, he buried me beneath a barrage of highly technical mathematical terms to which I simply have no clue.
Rhombic dodecahedron ( Has the Hypercube ( Tesseract ) Shadow )
Native sulfur crystals
Cyclo S 8  α -sulfur α -sulfur is the form most commonly found in nature. [1]  When pure it has a greenish-yellow colour (traces of cyclo-S 7  in commercially available samples make it appear yellower). [2]  It is practically insoluble in water and is a good electrical insulator with poor thermal conductivity. [1]  It is quite soluble in  carbon disulfide : 35.5 g/100 g solvent at 25 °C. [1]  It has a rhombohedral crystal structure.
Metalloproteins and inorganic cofactors Inorganic sulfur forms a part of  iron-sulfur clusters  as well as many copper, nickel, and iron proteins. Most pervasive are the ferrodoxins, which serve as electron shuttles in cells. In bacteria, the important  nitrogenase  enzymes contains an Fe-Mo-S cluster, is a  catalyst  that performs the important function of  nitrogen fixation , converting atmospheric nitrogen to ammonia that can be used by microorganisms and plants to make proteins, DNA, RNA, alkaloids, and the other organic nitrogen compounds necessary for life. [49]
Same rhombic structures in organic metalloproteins which unified to copper hold the secrets of dimensional interaction of the red  serpent ( dragon ) Aryan red tribes .
Tocharian red mummies found in China
Can-arian red mummies
Eumelanin
Eumelanin  polymers  have long been thought to comprise of numerous cross-linked 5,6-dihydroxy indole  ( DHI ) and 5,6-dihydroxyindole-2- carboxylic acid  ( DHICA ) polymers. However, recent research into the electrical properties of eumelanin has indicated that it may consist of more basic  oligomers  adhering to one another by some other mechanism. Eumelanin is found in hair,  areola , and skin, and colors hair grey, black, yellow, and brown. In humans, it is more abundant in people with dark skin. There are two different types of eumelanin. The two types are black eumelanin and brown eumelanin, with black melanin being darker than brown. Black eumelanin is mostly in non-Europeans and aged Europeans, while brown eumelanin is in mostly young Europeans. A small amount of black eumelanin in the absence of other pigments causes grey hair. A small amount of brown eumelanin in the absence of other pigments causes yellow (blond) color hair.
PHEOMELANIN
Pheomelanin is also found in hair and skin and is both in lighter-skinned humans and darker skinned humans. Pheomelanin imparts a pink to red hue and, thus is found in particularly large quantities in   red hair . [4]   Pheomelanin also may become   carcinogenic   when exposed to the ultraviolet rays of the sun. In chemical terms, pheomelanin differs from eumelanin in that its oligomer structure incorporates   benzothiazine   units that are produced instead of   DHI   and  DHICA   when the amino acid   L-cysteine   is present.
Note Sulfur atoms in Pheomelanin
Benzothiazine
DMT
Dimethyltryptamine
Benzothiazole
Benzothiazole  is an  organosulfur compound . It is colorless, slightly viscous liquid that is used in industry and research. A derivative of benzothiazole is the light-emitting component of   l uciferin , found in fireflies. Some dyes, such as  thioflavin , and pharmaceutical drugs, such as  riluzole , have benzothiazoles as a structural motif. Benzothiazoles can be prepared by treatment of 2-aminobenzenethiol with  acid chlorides : [ 1 ]
Luciferins   (from the Latin  lucifer , "light-bringer") are a class of light-emitting   biological pigments   found in organisms that cause   bioluminescence . The term is used generically to refer to any light-emitting molecule utilized by a   luciferase   or   photoprotein . [1]
B ioluminescence  on the sacred mushroom
The Alchemist in Search of the Philosophers Stone  (1771) by  Joseph Wright  depicting Hennig Brand discovering  phosphorus  (the glow shown is exaggerated)
Hennig Brand(t)  (c. 1630 – c. 1710) was a merchant and  alchemist  in  Hamburg , Germany. He discovered  phosphorus  around 1669.
The tomb of  Marie de Blanchefort , which in its inscription reveals the coded words “ Et in Arcadia Ego ”, also has the figure of an octopus etched down at the bottom. The  octopus  is, according to Priory of Sion member  Paul Le Cour,  a solar symbol used in  Atlantis . It also contains the same symbolism as  Arachne , the spider goddess, in regards to the number eight and the chessboard
An octopus's main (primary) defense is to hide, either not to be seen at all, or not to be detected as an octopus. [16]  Octopuses have several secondary defenses (defenses they use once they have been seen by a predator). The most common secondary defense is fast escape. Other defenses include the use of  ink sacs ,  camouflage , and  autotomising limbs . Most octopuses can eject a thick blackish  ink  in a large cloud to aid in escaping from predators. The main coloring agent of the ink is melanin, which is the same chemical that gives humans their hair and  skin color . This ink cloud is thought to reduce the efficiency of olfactory organs, which would aid an octopus's evasion from predators that employ  smell  for hunting, such as  sharks . Ink clouds of some species might serve as pseudomorphs, or decoys that the predator attacks instead.
Hemocyanins  (also spelled haemocyanins ) are respiratory  proteins  in the form of  metalloproteins  containing two copper  atoms that reversibly bind a single oxygen  molecule (O 2 ). Oxygenation causes a color  change between the colorless Cu(I) deoxygenated form and the  blue  Cu(II) oxygenated form. Hemocyanins carry oxygen in the hemolymph of most  molluscs , and some  arthropods , including the  horseshoe crab ,  Limulus polyphemus . They are second only to  hemoglobin  in biological popularity of use in oxygen transport. [1]  Unlike the hemoglobin in  red blood cells  found in vertebrates , hemocyanins are not bound to blood cells but are instead suspended directly in the  hemolymph .
Lilith depicted with red hair by John Collier
Hair color - biochemistry
In humans, all the different hair colors are due to just two types of pigment (melanin) called eumelanins and pheomelanins (European spelling, phaeomelanin). Eumelanins are the dark brown and black pigments while pheomelanins are the red and blonde pigments. The different colors of hair in different people are due to a combination of these two different basic biochemical structures. By mixing the two types together in different concentrations the many different shades of hair color are made. Eumelanins are very strong, stable proteins made from tyrosine. The large eumelanin biochemical structure is formed by processing the amino acid tyrosine into dopa and dopamine and connecting several of these molecules together to form eumelanin. The key enzyme in this process is tyrosinase. The more tyrosinase activity the more eumelanin is formed. This is one method by which different people have different shades of brown to black hair color. More tyrosinase activity results in more pigment production and so a darker hair color. As we get older, tyrosinase activity increases. It is most active in middle age and thereafter tyrosinase activity decreases. There are also other biochemical mechanisms by which the shade of hair color is regulated. Several factors interact with tyrosinase to help regulate eumelanin production. In addition, another key limiting factor in hair color is the availability of the raw tyrosine ingredient. A lack of tyrosine availability means the tyrosinase enzyme make eumelanin at full capacity. Pheomelanins are also made from the same tyrosine as eumelanins and the process is much the same with tyrosinase playing a key role. Pheomelanins are produced when an intermediate product in the eumelanin production pathway interacts with the amino acid cysteine. This results in the formation of a pheomelanin molecule which contains sulfur from the cysteine. These molecules are yellow to orange in color. So this is another way by which different shades of hair color can be produced. The more interaction there is between dopaquinone and cysteine the more yellow and orange pigments are produced. Thus those people with darker hair have relatively more eumelanin production. People with true red hair produce more pheomelanin. The pathway to eumelanin formation is largely inhibited. Because people with red hair are less able to make the dark eumelanin pigment their skin is generally quite pale and burns easily with sun exposure. A study that analyzed the amount of eumelanin and pheomelanin in human hair suggested that; black hair contains approximately 99% eumelanin and 1% pheomelanin, brown and blond hair contain 95% eumelanin and 5% pheomelanin; and red hair contains 67% eumelanin and 33% pheomelanin (Borges 2001). Although people with dark hair may still produce the yellow - orange pheomelanin, it is largely masked by the dark eumelanin pigment and we cannot see much of it. However, the red - yellow pheomelanin is believed to cause the warm, golden, or auburn tones found in some types of brown hair.
Sulfur atoms
Fourth Dimension
In  mathematics , the  fourth dimension , or a  four-dimensional ("4D") space , [ dubious   –  discuss ]  is an abstract concept derived by generalizing the rules of  three-dimensional space . It has been studied by mathematicians and philosophers for almost two hundred years, both for its own interest and for the insights it offered into mathematics and related fields.
Algebraically it is generated by applying the rules of  vectors  and  coordinate geometry  to a space with four dimensions. In particular a  vector  with four elements (a 4- tuple ) can be used to represent a position in four-dimensional space. The space is a  Euclidean space , so has a  metric  and  norm , and so all directions are treated as the same: the additional dimension is indistinguishable from the other three. In modern  physics ,  space  and  time  are unified in a four-dimensional  Minkowski  continuum called  spacetime , whose  metric  treats the time dimension differently from the three spatial dimensions. [ clarification needed ]  Spacetime is thus  not  a Euclidean space.
Stereographic projection  of a  Clifford torus : the set of points (cos( a ),
sin( a ), cos( b ), sin( b )), which is a subset of the  3-sphere .
According to  R.T. Rundle Clark ’s  Myth and Symbol in Ancient Egypt , the Eye of Horus consists of “64 parts” that have been scattered and need to be reassembled! He writes: “It will soon be seen that if each part of the [Eye of Horus] represents a fraction of the descending geometric series 1/2, ¼, 1/8, etc., put together, they make 63/64… So Thoth  (3)  can say ‘I came seeking the Eye of Horus, that I might bring it back and count it!’
In the Ancient Egyptian measurement system, the Eye Of Horus defined Old Kingdom number one (1) = 1/2 + 1/4 + 1/8 + 1/16 + 1/32 + 1/64, by throwing away 1/64 for any rational number. Eye of Horus numbers created six-term rounded-off numbers. The Old Kingdom definition has dropped a seventh term, a remainder 1/64, that was needed to report exact series. During the  Middle Kingdom that included the eleventh through fourteenth dynasties, exact series definitions and applications were often written by 6-terms, or less. The Egyptian fraction notation scaled to volume unit remainders to 1/320  hekat . For example, the Egyptian Mathematical Leather Roll , the  RMP 2/n table  and the  Akhmim Wooden Tablet  wrote binary quotients and scaled remainders. The metaphorical side of this information linked Old Kingdom fractions 1/2, 1/4, 1/8, 1/16, 1/32, and 1/64, to separate parts of the eye.
In the Middle Kingdom the 1/64 symbol denoted 'rest' and 'healing' as connected to the hekat, with the word  dja  being attached
.
Red cube on hand and a familiar symbol
Lady Gaga illuminati one eye symbol ( Gaga sumerian Goddess of the underworld )
I
In ancient India, cinnabar or vermillion
-- that is, mercuric sulphide -- had great ritual significance, typically having been used to make the red  bindi or dot on the forehead usually associated with Hinduism. But beyond that, the mineral was associated with two of mankind's greatest desires: to get rich and to live forever
Islam Kaaba  Cube
The tesseract can be unfolded into eight cubes, just as the cube can be unfolded into six squares ( view animation ). An unfolding of a polytope is called a   net . There are 261 distinct nets of the tesseract. [1]   The unfoldings of the tesseract can be counted by mapping the nets to   paired trees   (a   tree   together with a   perfect matching   in its  complement ).
Circle crop 4 D dodecahedron
Circle crop 4 D dodecahedron
The  Church of Saint George , one of many churches hewn into the rocky hills of Lalibela
Note that the church is a 3 d cross burried on a cube
Knightemplar symbols in Argentina time before Columbus
( IN HOC SIGNO VINCES )
Argentina IHS - Jesuit motto IN HOC SIGNO VINCES Encrypted
Jesuit symbol IHS sun, equinoxes and solstices entrances below
One of three frescoes ruling over the lobby of the Bank of America Corporate Center.
The cube symbolizing 3d and the black sun Lucifer
We see here a young blond boy standing on a standard Masonic checker-board pattern floor. His feet are placed at a 90 degrees angle, in accordance to Masonic  initiation  ritual.
Behind the boy is a tree on fire, which is a reference of the Burning Bush of the  Old Testament . The Burning Bush is of great importance in Masonic ritual, especially for the 33rd degree, whose members are considered to be “near the Burning Bush”.
ONE EYE ONE LOVE
ONE WORLD LUCIFERIAN WORLD
Our destiny ?
Albino Robot  of the NWO your melanine completely blocked
The end of consciousness ?
Posted by
INDIGO MEROVINGIAN
at
10:40 PM
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share to Pinterest
Labels:
666 ,
ALCHEMY ,
BILL GATES ,
COPPER ,
DODECAHEDRON ,
LAPISLAZULI ,
LILLY ,
LUCIFER ,
MERCURY ,
MONSANTO ,
POMEGRANATE ,
PORPHYRY ,
SATAN ,
SULFUR ,
VENUS ,
XP
No comments:
Post a Comment
Newer Post
Older Post
Home
Subscribe to:
Post Comments (Atom)
Followers
Blog Archive
►
2012
(1)
►
February
(1)
▼
2011
(17)
►
December
(1)
►
August
(2)
►
July
(1)
►
May
(1)
▼
April
(8)
DOOMSDAY REVEALED, 911 TRUTH REVEALED,
NO MORE SE...
911 TRUTH - THE
ILLUMINATI CODEX REVEALED - THE F...
WELCOME TO OUR NEW GOLDEN AGE, 11 QUMRAN DEAD SEA ...
PARALLEL 33 AND THE SULPHURIC ACID CONNECTION TO H...
ILLUMINATI LUCIFERIAN LIES
LUCIFERIANS EXPOSED III - SULPHUR - VITRIOL, THE P...
LUCIFERIANS EXPOSED III - SULPHUR - VITRIOL, THE P...
LUCIFERIANS EXPOSED II
- LUCIFER AND SULPHUR
►
February
(4)
INDIGO MEROVINGIAN
View my complete profile
Simple template. Powered by
Blogger .