Budapest Studytrip: Leisure
Budapest Studytrip
Seiten
Home
Accommodation
Transport
Company visits
Schedule
Leisure
City Info
F&B
Evaluation of the studytrip
Daily reports
Welcome to the weblog of the Budapest Studytrip of the 1st year Tourism and Leisure Management Students.This blog is made for all paritcipants and their family and friends. Here you can find information about the City, all company visits planned, the hostel, transportation within Budapest, leisure activities and F&B.The central theme of this study trip is citymarketing. Therefore we will visit different companies dealing with this topic , such as Budapest info, the citymarketing company of Budapest. Other company visits planned are the Gellert Hotel and Continental Travel. We also will do some sightseeing and there is also individual time to explore the city. In every category on the top of this website you will find information about the specific topics. And of course we will provide you with pictures and daily reports when we are in Budapest. We hope you enjoy reading.
Leisure
Budapest Walking Tour
The Chain Bridge
is one of
Budapest 's most famous
landmarks. The magnificent suspension bridge was built in the 19th century
across the river Danube between
Pest
and Buda,
at the time still separate cities.
The first connection between
Pest
and Buda was made by the Chain Bridge or Széchenyi
lánchíd,
named after count Széchenyi, who took the
initiative to build the bridge. In 1836 he gave the project to William Tierney
Clark and Adam Clark.
William Clark had already designed two suspension bridges over the Thames; the
Hammersmith Bridge in  London  and the Marlow Bridge. The latter is
a similar albeit smaller version of the bridge William Clark would design for
Budapest . The
construction of the Chain Bridge was supervised by the Scottish engineer Adam
Clark (not related).
The 375 meter (1230ft) long and 16 meter
wide bridge, a superb engineering feat, was opened on
november 20, 18 49. In 1857
Adam Clark dug a 350 meter  long tunnel through the  Castle Hill  to connect the bridge with the Buda hinterland. The bridge ignited
the economic revival that would lead to
Budapest 's
golden century and it was one of the factors that made the provincial towns of
Pest
and Buda into a fast-growing metropolitan. In 1989
people demonstrated on the chain bridge for freedom and independence. Since
then, the bridge has become a symbol of Hungarian liberty.
Buda
Castle   is the
historical castle and palace complex of the Hungarian kings in
Budapest , first completed in 1265. In the
past, it was also called   Royal
Palace   and   Royal
Castle .
Buda Castle was built on the southern tip
of Castle Hill, bounded on the north by what is known as the Castle District ,
famous for its Medieval, Baroque and 19th century houses, churches and public
buildings. It is linked to
Clark
Ádám Square
and the Széchenyi Chain Bridge by the
Castle Hill Funicular.
The castle is part of the Budapest World
Heritage Site, declared in 1987.
Rising 48 meters
above the
Danube , the Castle Hill or Várhegy
nevertheless dominates the city. This hill is the place where
Budapest
was founded. It is a small, densely
built rock, with the
Buda
Castle
as the most
prominent building.
The foundations of the castle, which would later be besieged no less than
31 times, were laid in the 13th century after Mongol tribes had invaded
Hungary . King
Béla built a keep surrounded by thick walls in 1243 on a site which was
previously occupied by a small farming community. Around the keep, a small town
called Buda started to grow. During the Reign of King Lajos the Great, the keep
was fortified and a palace was built. Later, during the reign of Sigismund of
Luxembourg (1387-1437), the castle was again expanded, resulting in one of the
greatest palaces in
Europe .
Lion's Gate
The 15th century palace
At the end of the 15th century, during the
reign of King Matthias Corvinus the castle was restored and new wings were
added to the palace. Very little remains of this beautiful palace of the 15th
century, as the buildings were almost completely demolished when
Budapest
was recaptured
after the Turkish ruled the city between 1541 and 1686.
The 18th century palace
A new palace was built between 1714 and
1723 by King Charles III of Habsburg. It was designed in a Baroque style by
Fortunato de Prati and supervised
Matthias Fountain
by Johann Hölbling. The palace was
extended by King Charles's daughter, the empress Maria Theresa, but the great
fire of 1810 and the attack of the castle during the Hungarian rising destroyed
much of the new palace.
Dual Monarchy Expansion
After the Austro-Hungarian Compromise of
1867, there was a new need for a castle in
Budapest
to express
Hungary 's
larger independence. To the buildings left from Charles III and Maria Theresa,
a new wing and central domed structure were added. At the end of W.W.II, the
complex was damaged again by fire, but after the restoration started in the
fifties, the
Buda
Castle
can be seen in all
its glory again. The Castle with its 203 rooms now houses several museums,
among them the Budapest Historical Museum and the National Gallery.
Matthias
Church  ( Hungarian :  Mátyás-templom ) is a church located in  Budapest ,  Hungary , at the heart of  Buda's Castle District . According to church tradition, it was
originally built in  Romanesque style  in 1015. The current building was
constructed in the florid late Gothic style in the second half of the 14th
century and was extensively restored in the late 19th century. It was the
second largest church of medieval  Buda  and the seventh largest church
of  medieval Hungarian Kingdom .
Officially named as the
Church
of
Our Lady ,
it has been popularly named after King  Matthias , who ordered the transformation of its original southern tower. The church
was the scene of several coronations, including that of  Charles IV  in 1916 (the last  Habsburg  king). It was also the site for King Matthias's two weddings (the
first to  Catherine of Poděbrady  and, after her death, to  Beatrice of Naples ). During the century and a half of  Turkish occupation , the vast majority of its ecclesiastical treasures were shipped to  Pressburg  (present
day
Bratislava )
and following the capture of  Buda  in 1541 the church became the city's
main mosque. Ornate  frescoes  that previously adorned the walls of
the building were whitewashed and interior furnishings stripped out.
The church was also a place of the so
called Mary-wonder. In 1686 during the siege of  Buda  by the  Holy League  a wall of the church collapsed due to cannonfire. It turned out that
an old votive Madonna statue was hidden behind the wall. As the  sculpture  of the  Virgin Mary  appeared before the praying Muslims, the morale of the garrison
collapsed and the city fell on the same day.
Although following  Turkish  expulsion in 1686 an attempt was made to restore the church in the Baroque  style, historical evidence shows that the work was largely
unsatisfactory. It was not until the great architectural boom towards the end
of the 19th century that the building regained much of its former splendour.
The architect responsible for this work was  Frigyes Schulek .
The   Halászbástya   or   Fisherman's   Bastion   is a
terrace in   neo-Gothic   and   neo-Romanesque   style
situated on the   Buda   bank of
the   Danube , on the   Castle   hill in   Budapest , around   Matthias Church . It was designed and built between 1895
and 1902 on the plans of   Frigyes Schulek . Between 1947–48, the son of   Frigyes Schulek,   János Schulek, conducted the other
restoration project after its near destruction during World War II.
From the towers and the terrace a panoramic view exists of   Danube ,   Margaret Island ,   Pest   to the
east and the   Gellért Hill . Its seven towers represent the seven   Magyar   tribes
that settled in the   Carpathian Basin   in 896.
The Bastion takes its name from the guild of fishermen that was responsible for
defending this stretch of the city walls in the   Middle Ages . It is a viewing terrace, with many stairs
and walking paths. A bronze statue of   Stephen I of Hungary   mounted on a horse, erected in 1906, can
be seen between the Bastion and the   Matthias Church . The pedestal was made by   Alajos Stróbl , based on the plans of Frigyes Schulek, in Neo-Romanesque style, with
episodes illustrating the King's life.
It was featured as a Pit Stop on the sixth season of   The Amazing Race .
The church was restored to its original
13th century plan but a number of early original  Gothic elements were uncovered. By also adding
new motifs of his own (such as the diamond pattern roof tiles and gargoyles
laden spire) Schulek ensured that the work, when finished, would be highly
controversial.
It is home to the  Ecclesiastical   Art museum
which begins in
the medieval crypt and leads up to the  St. Stephen  Chapel. The gallery contains a
number of sacred relics and medieval stone carvings, along with replicas of
the  Hungarian royal crown  and coronation jewels.
Excursion
Danube
Boat Cruise:
The evening sightseeing cruise
is combined with a sound and vision show.
It is on Tuesday in the evening. At 8 o’clock we have a cruisetrip. The
boat departs from the centre of
Budapest
and makes an hour round trip in the city. While you are enchanted by the
illuminated sights, famous personalities from the Hungarian history, kings,
queens, poets, inventors and even the
Danube
tells you legendary stories about the town. Through TV screens you will be able
to look behind the walls of the buildings passing by, to admire the hidden
interiors. The program ends with the Blue Danube Waltz which will whisper in
your ears any time you remember the tour.
Source:
http://www.budapestdanubecruise.com
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share to Pinterest
Home
Subscribe to:
Posts (Atom)
Blog Archive
▼
2012
(2)
▼
April
(2)
Weather forecast
Little tourist dictionary
Template images by
piskunov . Powered by
Blogger .