Holiday Cottage Loire Valley France | Self Catering Gites in Loire Valley, France | Child Friendly Holidays | French Accommodation
Home
The Gites
Calendar
Guestbooks
Attractions
Links
Take a tour of the gites
Check dates and availability
Discover the Loire Valley!
All the info you need to get here
Book
Your Dates Now!
(These documents require
Adobe Acrobat Reader
-
download it here )
Current Price List
Booking Form
Booking Conditions
Contact:
Jon and Sue Fletcher
Tel: +33 (0) 241 50 69 46
enquires@lesfleurs-loire.com
http://www.lesfleurs-loire.com
SSL Certificates
Staying at Les Fleurs
self catering accommodation in the Loire  gives guests the
opportunity to visit many places of interest and within a few
minutes are:-
Puy Notre Dame
(Puy derives from the Provencal word "Puech", meaning an
isolated hill.) The church tower is illuminated in the evening
by a star which can be seen from the courtyard of
Les Fleurs
self catering gites in the Loire
Construction of the church began in 1163. The choir was finished
in 1182 followed by the Nave in 1208, and the towers sometime
between 1225-1250.
Le Puy ( Podio beatae Mariae
in the
7th century
had become known as
Puy-la-Montagne
by
1793
and the hill of Puy as
Mary's Mountain . William 9th,
Duke of
Aquitaine
is reputed to have
brought back a waistband of the
Virgin Mary
from the
Crusades
and deposited it in the church. His granddaughter
Eleanor of
Aquitaine
founded a collegial
church to honour the relic which, according to legend,
facilitated pregnancies and male offspring.
Louis XI
founded a chapter about
1480
and this became a site of
pilgrimage
the Sunday after
September 8 ,
the
Nativity .
The relic can still be viewed here.
The town became a stop on the pilgrimage to
Santiago de
Compostela
( 17th
century
houses used by the
pilgrims still exist).
Its location between the territories of the Counts of
Anjou
and Aquitaine lent it strategic importance and traces of an
encircling town wall remain
The routes to Santiago de Compostela
From the 10th
century to the present day, pilgrims have made their way to
Santiago along four traditional routes. Tours (Paris), Vézelay,
le Puy-en-Velay and Arles were named in the 12th century
Pilgrim's Guide
attributed to Aimery Picaud as the assembly points for pilgrims
coming from all over Europe, including Britain and Ireland.
Each of these was the site of a shrine celebrated in its own
right, at which the pilgrims would worship before proceeding.
The stages of the routes were marked by further shrines
competing for patronage and for relics, for the interest of the
pilgrims, and the business they brought with them.
Monasteries and pilgrim hospices were built along the way to
minister to the needs of pilgrims.  The glories of
Romanesque architecture and sculpture still mark these and other
minor routes that parallel or converge on them.
I n northern
Spain the four routes merged to become the so-called Camino
Francés that passed across Castile, through Burgos and León to
Santiago de Compostela.
I t is
still possible to follow these medieval routes without too much
trouble, though some of the original footpaths have become
modern roads.  They pass through some of the most
beautiful, historic and interesting countryside in France and
Spain, before arriving in the distinctive Celtic region of
Galicia bordering the Atlantic.
Montreuil
Bellay
A lovely town
bordering the river with the imposing chateau towering above
(its one of the towns your personal pilot and host will fly you
over when staying at Les Fleurs self catering gites in the
Loire)
The
first castle was built in the eleventh century by Foulques
Nerra, Count of Anjou, on the foundations of what was a Roman
Oppidum. Indefatigable warrior, insatiable builder, Foulques
Nerra
(also
known as Black Falcon)
was a member of an elite group of loyal subjects to the King.
Foulques Nerra gave the castle to his vassal, Giraud Berlay,
(also
known as Bellay) . Montreuil-Bellay
was then to become widely known as an impregnable fortress
during the conflicts between the English and French monarchies.
A three year siege was necessary to quieten the resistance of
Giraud II Berlay.
So
strong was the Berlay attachment to the French Crown that King
Philip Augustus held his court in Montreuil-Bellay in 1208, as
did King Louis VIII in 1224.
In
the thirteenth century, Montreuil-Bellay, surrounded by immense
forests belonging to the siegniory, was a popular centre for
stag hunting and falconry. It is recorded that there were many
impressive feasts held at that time.
The
fourteenth century then brought the Hundred Years War. Starving
peasants in the locality took refuge in the moats of the castle
and in the neighbouring monasteries, while Lord Montreuil-Bellay
(Guillaume de Melun-Tancarville)
died a glorious death in 1415 at the battle of Agincourt. His
grandson, Guillaume d’Harcourt, married Yolande de Laval,
sister-in-law of the King René.
The
Château, as we see it today, was constructed between the
thirteenth and fifteenth centuries. The end of the Hundred Years
War, brought about by the truce signed by Louis XI and Edward IV
in Picquigny in 1475, put an end to the English influence. The
architecture of the château evolved in a distinctive manner; the
austere fortress built for defensive purposes then became a
large country pile. It is an excellent testimony to the arrival
of Renaissance Humanism.
Doue la Fontaine
Located between the
North Loire and South Loire, Doue is in the heart of the Loire,
a town rich in history and formed by it.
20 25 million years
ago the present location of the town was covered by the Falun
Sea, as the sea seeped away it left a thick layer of fossilized
limestone. We have discovered many fossils in the gardens of the
gites and some of these are on display in the office/shop.
The name Doue came
from Theoadus, “The Ford of God” which, in 814 appeared for the
first time as Doue. Louis the Pious, son of Charlemagne, had a
residence here, and whilst living here he discovered that on the
death of his father he would become king.  In the 10 th
Century the royal residence was known as Carolingian House, it
was, unfortunately burned to the ground.
In the 16 th
Century the open-air theatre, known as, les Arnes, was built on
the site of old quarries.
The 18 th
Century was a prosperous time for the inhabitants of Doue and it
was thanks to Baron Foullin, Lord of Doue, in 1765, that the
town acquired a national reputation. The Baron was one of the
first victims of the Revolution. His chateau was destroyed and
the superb stables now house the museum.
Doue was very wealthy
and prosperous in the 18 th
Century. Agriculture,
craftwork and pre-industrial activity were very important.
There were 20 fairs and large markets held every year and the
Monday market was established as long ago as 1841.
The town gradually
expanded through the centuries and today the inhabitant’s number
almost 8,000.
With heated Swimming Pool
Now available
UK Satellite T.V.!!
www.lesfleurs-loire.com
last updated May 2010
Vacation Rentals |
Places to Stay in France | Cottages to Rent in France | Homes |
Houses | Gites
Self Catering Gites | Vacations in the Loire Valley
Holiday Cottage Loire Valley France | Self
Catering Gites | French Accommodation
Copyright © 2006 Fletcher-Corp
Limited