frozen frames i shot: April 2012
frozen frames i shot
My lonliness had found a break when i fell in love with her..n i was yet again
happy when we shared the same frame.
Saturday, April 7, 2012
Beach Hopping
7th May, 2011
Beaches have always been of interest to me. I have traveled along the length of Kerala's coast as of today (April '12). Tough basically its all sand and the same water you get to see where ever you go, i should say every place has it's own story. Every community has its lore, belief and rituals. I try to understand and respect their upbringings.
This trip was scheduled to happen in April , but i had a hunch that it wouldn't 'coz many wanted to come! I prefer the company of like minded travelers or else it better be I myself. Often it has been my best bud David to my company and its no different this time except i have also to tag along Rifaz and Binny my fellow shutterbugs!
Beach hopping was new to them. I had it conceived in my mind earlier in 2010 when i visited Varkala beach, Thiruvananthapuram.
Today i decided to drive down from Fort Cochin to Alleppy en route Kannamaly, Andhakaranazhi, Cherthala, Muhamma, Mararikulam, Thumpoly and finally reaching Alleppy.
light house, andhakaranazhi
We started off by 11am and the first destination was Andhakaranazhi Beach. It is acoastal village located 4-km west of
Pattanakkad . It's one of the popular beach locations attracting tourists and domestic visitors..20km approx from Fort Cochin. Took us almost 45 min since the drive was intentionally slow to admire the coast. The after noon sun was blasting upon us and shades were a must have. The pristine beauty of the lagoon can only be truly experienced if one spends a few hours watching the tides shift. What seems to be a dry land lock timely converts itself into a watery lagoon.
The Vyathara
Trimurthi
temple, a very rare and old temple dedicated to tri-gods (trimurthi)
Shiva ,
Vishnu
and
Brahma
consecrated in a single sreekovil is located in Andhakaranazhy. The
Kandakarana temple is also located near the Trimurthi temple.
There is presently a few new constructions in this area  and a view point has been installed mostly in the form of a walkway right behind the rock fence.I strongly advise shades, sunscreen and an umbrella if one is visiting during high noon. The beach has an
azhy , a sand
sedimentation
formed by the constant sea erosion.Large mechanised shutters are erected near the
isthmus
where the
back waters
merge into the
Arabian sea . These shutters regulate the flow of seawater water entering into the neighbouring paddy fields of
Thuravoor , Pattanakad,
Ezhupunna
panchayats connected to the
David was our model for the day and his white shirt proved quiet a challenge to shoot in this scorching light.
We were lucky to see a local community offering Bali to a recently deceased. It was called Kudam Kamathal, literally meaning turning the pot. The performer had a pot full of goods that was blessed and chanted upon by the priest observing the ritual.  A minimal crowd had accompanied them chanting verses form their prayer books.
Moving on further after a short break we made it to
shrine of st. sebastian
arthungal church
Cherthala in about half an hour.
Cherthala is known for the Arthungal Church which holds the shrine of St. Sebastian.
The Thycal Beach is home to the Yellow crab(Ocypode quadrata). Its presence barely goes unnoticed and this interesting crustacean was actually photogenic! The crabs have evolved and started to accommodate human presence.
Fishermen sat by the shades mending their broken nets smoking beedi and laughing aloud over some joke.
Yellow crab(Ocypode quadrata)
house boat
Traveling further we took a left almost 6km after Cherthala heading towards Muhamma. The view from the Boat jetty is wonderful. Enchanting beauty of the backwaters that has attracted folks from all around the globe. Standing there we get a view of the Pathiramanal Island which might be a km or 2 away. One might consider renting a private boat if you need to visit this island.There are frequent service boats to Kumarakom thanks to the KSWTC.
marari beach
Couple of Km ahead taking a right of the NH 47 we reached Mararikulam beach. Its Famous for its pristine white sandy beach and also known as turtle beach. Both CGH and ABAD have their resorts in the vicinity amongst many small home-stays and other resorts on a leaner budget.
The next beach we stopped by was Thumpoly. The parish of Thumpoly is renowned for its beautifully constructed church, called after
St. Thomas
and also dedicated to the Blessed
Virgin Mary . The main feast which lasts for 11 days, is that of the
Immaculate Conception ,
celebrated on the 8th of December every year. The statue of 'Our Lady'
of Immaculate Conception in the church is called 'Kappal Karathi Amma'
or 'the mother who came by ship.
There is also a know service to cure warts.
i, rifaz and binny
binny, david, rifaz
The trip was finally over reaching Alleppy by evening watching the sunset eating local  snacks and a hot tea.
It was a trip worth the time spent and could be done on any weekend.
Posted by
antony sebastian
at
10:05 PM
No comments:
Days she's been away...
It has been for ever that i wrote. My lady has been inspiring, persistent and a little irritating regarding the same ; but i guess its fine 'coz she believes i can.
She's away for 2 months and i feel i need to be writing. It's how i would like to fill up her absence. My words are my conversations i wish i had with her.So here i am typing again after almost a year. I am pretty sure this will brighten up her day. Honestly i too feel happy. Yes, I am lazy!! :)
6th, April 2012.
It is finally happening. I sat down in my cozy chair around evening, away form the desktop. Sipping masala chai. Bro is into 3 rose masala chai these days. It tasted good with strength to my preference.
It has unusually got cloudy by 5 pm and i see heavy forecast. I wonder if it would rain, I'd love to see it rain.
I sipped my tea and relaxed. It's often this weather that inspires me to think, write and dream. I smiled i knew i had to write. It would make her happy. I picked up the D.C supplement and was browsing through it when my eyes caught on SUDOKU. Last time i tried one was when we sat at Cocoa Tree. I did one in a jiffy but the other was quiet a teaser! attempted the crossword and was honestly embarrassed how poor my vocabulary had got! Moved on to jumbled words it was was my forte and i did crack it. And no sooner i realized i should blog.
8th, April 2012.
Easter Sunday. 2012 has seen a different me; i have recollected my faith.
Today after years we celebrated Easter as a whole. Usually its dad abroad and us here in Cochin. I did thank HIM for today. Well, celebration is nothing huge at home. No guests, just as and our favorite dishes. Lunch was good with biriyani, beef and mutton. Gastronomical delight!!!
The evening. Post tea plans were made to visit Fort Cochin. Boy am I glad?!
FORT COCHIN.
The sun had just begun to set when we crossed the thoppumpady bridge. There wasn't much of traffic but the Police patrolling had started. I tell you world, either the govt. should close down booze shops or let the people drink in peace! I hate to give that dirty blow job! oops i was talking about blowing into the breath analyzer.
We reached the beach just in time to see the sun vanishing into    the distant horizon. I had my cam ready but i decided to give up, took a deep breath and just enjoyed the moment. Splendid!
Thank GOD for the sea' for they calm me like my mothers touch.
The beach was bustling with life. I just love life. The human wave on the shore, children running around.. Kites, balls, pets. Elders sitting on the bench and looking around probably say.." ek zamaane thi jab...." I just smile. Life is Beautiful.
Cochin certainly has to provide more destination to its on inhabitants. The pressure is clearly evident. Love smitten newbies need more venues to confide their romances.
The happily married need space to walk hand in hand to recall their initial days of romance. And not to forget, the young on the look out for new/newer mate(S) need more target areas!
Children playing are always a joy to watch. I noticed this batch of boys playing cricket and attempted to click.. nothing was happening good. Finally they actually posed playing slower. :)
There is this street artist i have been noticing every time i went to F.C for a photo-walk.Today he has something new to offer.. always some social message.
Treading further down the walkway, i see ice cream wallas, nut sellers, fruit vendors and not to miss the fish stalls of F.C. One can always strike a good deal if you are good at your bargaining.
There was this group of singers performing with a karaoke. They were fund raising for aspiring local musicians, esp. singers.Its amazing to see such amazing voices arise amongst us.
Fish has always been cochinites favorite food. But the price does make it look like an exotic import!! Piranhas were abundant. I need to try them out. Shrimps,  King prawn, crabs, mussels were aplenty.
The night had dawned and incandescent light from the street lamps had a cast a spell of yellow all around. The boats were docked, the Chinese nets were tied down. The birds were settling into their abodes.
Drifting music from tour boats, buses calling out for last trips, vigilant POLICE, the night seem good.
2012 EASTER, thank you. I am content. I had an awesome evening clicking to my hearts choice with the company of my family. Tomorrow is a brand new day. Until then Live Strong.
me n ma folks
bro dad n mom
Posted by
antony sebastian
at
8:29 PM
2 comments:
The Rains.
I see 'em cast a shadow of darkness, Blowing a breeze of sadness.
Roaring above my head so violent, Shedding tears like a child's ailment.
It seems to bring a flash of past, Howling above like a sorcerers cast!
Like a might spell to open my shell.
Risen is the smell of dampened earth , such is the smile after a infant's birth.
comes the hour i have been waiting for..to
splash n dash in the monsoons fall!!
Posted by
antony sebastian
at
8:03 PM
No comments:
Newer Posts
Older Posts
Home
Subscribe to:
Posts (Atom)
Followers
Frozen Frames
►
2015
(1)
►
April
(1)
▼
2012
(3)
▼
April
(3)
Beach Hopping
Days she's been away...
The Rains.
►
2011
(1)
►
May
(1)
►
2009
(2)
►
April
(2)
►
2008
(9)
►
October
(1)
►
July
(8)
A Perfect Stranger.
antony sebastian
i'm from cochin, a dentist and i love to travel, blog and enjoy strumming my guitar.
View my complete profile
Awesome Inc. template. Template images by
molotovcoketail . Powered by
Blogger .