Bulletin6/7 August 2011

St. Christophers Cathedral
Parish
Archdiocese of Canberra and Goulburn
Archbishop Mark Coleridge DD BA DSS
Administrator: Fr Francis Kolencherry francise@cg.catholic.org.au
(Tel for Emergency: 0408267777)
Assistant Priest: Fr. James T. Antony CMI
Msgr. John Woods V.G
Deacon Vince Barclay
Pastoral Assistant: Sr. Elizabeth West LCM
Parish Secretaries: Cath Mungoven & Ljubica Jagodic
st.chris@cg.catholic.org.au
Parish Office: Tel: 6295 9555
Office Hours: Monday to Friday: 9.00am-1.00pm; 2.00-5.00pm
55 Franklin Street, Forrest ACT 2603
Website: htt://stchristophers-act.info
Baptisms: By appointment on second and fourth Sundays (St Christopher's) and third Sunday
(St Peter Chanel's). Marriages: By appointment.

NINETEENTH SUNDAY IN ORDINARY TIME YEAR A
ENTRANCE ANTIPHON: Lord, be true to your covenant, forget not the life of your poor ones for
ever. Rise up, O God, and defend your cause; do not ignore the shouts of your enemies.
FIRST READING: A reading from the first book of the Kings 19:9. 11-13
RESPONSORIAL PSALM : Lord, show us your mercy and love, and grant us your salvation.
1. I will her what the Lord God has to say, a voice that speaks of peace. His help is near for those
who fear him and his glory will dwell in our land. R/
2. Mercy and faithfulness have met; justice and peace have embraced. Faithfulness shall spring
from the earth and justice look down from heaven. R/
3. The Lord will make us prosper and our earth shall yield its fruit. Justice shall march before him
and peace shall follow his steps. R/
SECOND READING: A reading from the letter of St Paul to the Romans 9:1-5
GOSPEL ACCLAMATION :

Alleluia, Alleluia! I hope in the Lord, I trust in his word. Alleluia!

GOSPEL: A reading from the holy Gospel according to Matthew 14:22-33
COMMUNION ANTIPHON: Praise the Lord, Jerusalem; he feeds you with the finest wheat.
Scripture Texts used are from the Jerusalem Bible published by Darton, Longman and Todd and Doubleday and Co. Inc. The
psalms are from the Psalms, a New Translation published by Collins. They are copied under Word of Life Licensed No 5106E
for March 2007.

19th Sunday in Ordinary Time

Weekend Mass Times
St Christopher's Cathedral
Sunday: 8.00am, 11.00 am and
5.30pm
St Peter Chanel's Church
Cnr Weston & Loch Sts
Yarralumla ACT 2600
Saturday: 6.00pm Vigil
Sunday: 9.30am (Children's
Liturgy)

Weekday Mass Times
St Christopher's Cathedral
Monday: 12:15pm
Tuesday to Friday: 6.45am &
12.15pm
Saturday: 12.15pm
St Peter Chanel's
Tuesday: 5.30pm
Thursday: 10.00am, following
9.30am Adoration
St Bede's School
Wednesday: 10.00am during
school terms.

Benediction and Novena
St. Christopher's:
Wednesday 6.00pm

Reconciliation:
St Christopher's Cathedral
Thursday: 6.00 - 6.30pm
Saturday: 11.00am - 12noon
St Peter Chanel's
Tuesday 6.00pm - 6.30pm
Saturday: 5.15pm - 5.45pm

Anointing Mass:
First Thursday of the month, at
St Peter Chanel's 10:00am Mass
for the anointing of the sick.

west@lcm.org.authedral office on 62959555

PARISH NOTICES

MARY HELEN MACKILLOP (15 January 1842 
8 August 1909), also known as Saint Mary of
the Cross, was an Australian Roman Catholic
nun who, together with Father Julian Tenison
Woods, founded the Sisters of St Joseph of the
Sacred Heart and a number of schools and
welfare institutions throughout Australasia
with an emphasis on education for the poor,
particularly in country areas. Since her death
she has attracted much veneration in Australia
and internationally.
On 17 July 2008, Pope Benedict XVI prayed at
her tomb during his visit to Sydney for World
Youth Day 2008. On 19 December 2009, Pope
Benedict XVI approved the Roman Catholic
Church's recognition of a second miracle
attributed to her intercession. She was canonised on 17 October 2010 during a public ceremony in St Peter's Square at the Vatican.*3+*4+*5+
*6+
She is the only Australian to be recognised
by the Roman Catholic Church as a saint.
MacKillop died on 8 August 1909 in the Josephite convent in North Sydney. The Archbishop
of Sydney, Cardinal Moran, stated that: "I consider this day to have assisted at the deathbed
of a Saint." She was laid to rest at the Gore Hill
cemetery, a few kilometres up the Pacific Highway from North Sydney.
After MacKillop's burial, people continually
took earth from around her grave. As a result,
her remains were exhumed and transferred on
27 January 1914 to a vault before the altar of
the Virgin Mary in the newly built memorial
chapel in Mount Street, North Sydney. The
vault was a gift of Joanna Barr Smith, a lifelong
friend and admiring Presbyterian.
In 1925, the Mother Superior of the Sisters of
St Joseph, Mother Laurence, began the process to have MacKillop declared a saint and
Michael Kelly, Archbishop of Sydney, established a tribunal to carry the process forward.
After several years of hearings, close examination of MacKillop's writings and a 23 year delay, the initial phase of investigations was completed in 1973. After further investigations,
MacKillop's "heroic virtue" was declared in
1992. That same year, the church endorsed
the belief that Veronica Hopson, apparently
dying of leukaemia in 1961, was cured by praying for MacKillop's intercession; MacKillop was
beatified on 19 January 1995 by Pope John
Paul II.
On 19 December 2009, the Congregation for
the Causes of Saints issued a papal decree
formally recognising a second miracle, the
complete and permanent cure of Kathleen
Evans of inoperable lung and secondary brain
cancer in the 1990s. Her canonisation was
announced on 19 February 2010 and subsequently took place on 17 October 2010. This
made her the first Australian saint.
PARISH TEAM
Director of Music: Jaki Kane
Accounts Manager: Linda Casella
Maintenance Manager:
Pieter van Gent
School of Religion Coordinator:
Aaron McDonnell

FEAST OF THE ASSUMPTION: Holy Day of obligation: The Feast of the Assumption,
Monday 15 August, reminds us of our own destiny.We, like her are to bear God to
our world Mary, like her, we are to give the witness of our life and our death to living
in, with and for God. She is our model of faith, our Mother in faith, and our advocate .
the first among the faithful, the first believer, the first real disciple. We celebrate her
assumption into heaven. There will be an additional Mass at 6.45am at the Cathedral on this day.
FIRST EUCHARIST. First Eucharist preparations are approaching and I encourage you
to start talking about what it means to receive the Body of Christ with your child.
Classes for First Holy Communion will commence next Tuesday evening, 9 August
2011 at 6pm at St Peter Channels Yarralumla. A parents information evening will
be held following the first class (7:00pm-7:30pm). Enrolment forms can be obtained
by emailing Aaron McDonnell amcdonnell@activ8.net.au ASAP! Essential dates for
this sacrament include:
Sunday, 14 August First Eucharist Commitment Mass
 Wednesday, 17 August Family Group Meeting One
 Wednesday, 24 August - Family Group Meeting Two Wednesday,
 31 August - Family Group Meeting Three
SCHOOL OF RELIGION CLASSES have resume and are held Tuesday evenings from
6pm-7pm at St Peter Chanels. Classes for children from Kinder to Year 6. All welcome. Enquiries to amcdonnell@activ8.net.au
THE ST CHRISTOPHERS PARISH PASTORAL COUNCIL is interested in forming a committee support social justice issues . We invite anyone who would like to be part of a
social justice committee, or interested in such matters, to please send your contact
details to this email address: socialjustice@stchristophers-act.info
SCRIPTURE STUDY: An introductory session for the Scripture Study Group will be
held on Monday 8 August at 7:30pm in the downstairs meeting room of the presbytery. All are welcome. The Scripture study group will focus on the Gospel of Mark,
which is the Gospel series for Year B, starting this Advent, and Mondays meeting will
provide introductory material, and an opportunity to explore the process offered.
THE PARISH PASTORAL COUNCIL exists to work for and with the parish of St. Christophers to grow in faith, to support the mission of the wider church, and to provide
opportunity for others to participate more fully in the life of the church. If you have
suggestions to bring before the PPC, please email them to the chairperson:
keithwilliam.baker@gmail.com
RCIA The RCIA is for anyone who is thinking about becoming a Catholic Christian or
who would like more information about the Catholic faith. Anyone who would like
further information about the RCIA, please contact Sr. Liz at ewest@lcm.org.au

Parish Calendar this Week 914 August 2011
Tuesday - 9August

Catholic Women's League, 10.00am, SCC Presbytery Meeting
Room. All welcome. Enquiries to Jacqueline ph: 6295 0084
Legion of Mary, 1.30pm SCC Presbytery Meeting Room

Wed  10August

Novena and Benediction 6.00pm SCC

Thursday - 11 August

Cathedral Young Adults prayer 6.30pm SCC

Friday12 August
Saturday13 August

Christian Meditation at 5pm SPC

Sunday14 August

Syro-Malabar Mass 5.15pm SPC

PARISH AND DIOCESEAN NEWS
VOLUNTEERS WANTED: St. Peter Chanels Church is in need of
people to support and help in maintaining the church. If you
are willing to assist please contact Sr. Liz West on 0412691132,
or by email at: ewest@lcm.org.au
PASTORAL CARE TRAINING 2011
Become a Pastoral Carer in your Community.
Affirm the power of Love and Care through the Spirit of God in
the Community . The Centre is responding to many requests
for an evening Introductory Course (40 hours): Mondays 29th
August to 14th November 5.30 to 9pm (school holidays
excluded), and one Saturday 19th November (during day).
Venue: Canberra Hospital. For more information and application forms contact: Administrator: Lyn Kelly (02) 62442261 or
lyn.kelly@act.gov.au. http://www.pastoralcareact.org/cpe
THANK YOU!! The parish community extends to Bruce Murray
a big thank you for his generous contribution to the liturgies
at St. Peter Chanels Church. Bruces willingness to play the
organ for the liturgies has given much to our community celebrations. Thank you Bruce, and may your new position bring
you much joy.
ARE YOU INTERESTED IN BECOMING A SPECIAL MINISTER OF
THE EUCHARIST? Special ministers of the Eucharist are those
members of the parish who are willing to assist at the liturgy of
the Eucharist at St. Peter Chanels or St. Christophers Cathedral. A period of training is undergone before special ministers
are commissioned to their role within the parish. The term of
commissioning is usually two years. If you are interested please
contact Fr. James or Sr. Liz, or contact the Parish Office:
62959555

WHY THE APOSTLES CREED?
Origins of the Apostles Creed: The Apostles Creed is the most
ancient of the Creeds in the Church. Another word the Church
uses for the Creed is the term symbol, and the Catechism of the
Catholic Church states that the Apostles Creed is the ancient baptismal symbol (creed) of the Church of Rome to which St. Ambrose adds: It is the Creed of the Roman Church, the See of Peter,
the first of the apostles, to which he brought the common faith.
(CCC n.194)
In the early Church Lent was a time of intense preparation for
those who were to be baptized at the Easter Vigil. During Lent the
candidates, referred to as the chosen, were brought together
often and taught the beliefs of the Church as outlined in the
Creed. When the teaching had been completed, the Creed itself
was handed over to them so that they might learn it by heart. A
week later the chosen returned and handed back the Creed,
each person, in the words of the Creed, professing his or her acceptance of the faith. This same process is carried out today in
the RCIA. In our recitation of the Apostles Creed, we are reaffirming the acceptance of our own baptismal faith in its earliest formulation. It challenges us to practice what we do proclaim.

PARISH (KIDS) MOVIE NIGHT
The Parish will be holding a FREE movie night for primary age
school children (and those young at heart) next Friday evening
12 August 2011 at 6:30pm at St Peter Chanels (parish hall)
Yarralumla. Finding Nemo will be screened, popcorn, soft
drinks, fruit and orange juice will be provided. Bring your own
blanket or bean bag for comfort! Supervision guaranteed: Parents welcome! Contact Aaron McDonnell for further information amcdonnell@activ8.net.au - ph. 0400002019

As a Parish Let us Pray for:
Those who are ill: Peter Sutherland, Jo Batten, Luke Westaway, Vera Urh, , Dennis Furber, Anna Datt, Angela Delaney, Michelle
Palisi, Fr Gresser ffsp, Teresa Palombi, Lynn Bush, Donna Hurly, Ruth Heesh, Lindy Muir, Jessica Smith, Marie McLean, Mary
ONeill, Elizabeth Mollhan, Mary Donnelly, Jenny Ziganiuk, Donna Lewis, Therese Adams, Marie Smith, Margaret Hinchcliffe,
Mary Prosser
Those recently deceased: Carmel Barton, Charlie Dwyer, Deidre Allen, Peter Kane, Josephine DAmbrosio, Charles Cachia, Des
Flaherty, Lola Weddell, Father Fred Edwards, Maureen Kaye, June Curran, Kathleen (Stephanie) McCue, Eric Daly, Glenys Bannenberg, John Wright, Ellen Davies, Jim Murphy, Russo Vincenzo, Maria Filardo, Lionel Rose, Teresa De Montis, Valerie Hawke, Angelina Mihalic, Peter & Helen Brajkovic, Thomas Milat (father of Fr. Emil Milat).
Eternal rest grant unto them, O Lord, and let perpetual light shine upon them. May the souls of the faithful departed, through
the mercy of God, rest in peace. Amen.
Anniversaries of death: Andrew Durnell, Elizabetta Virgara, Theresa Josephine Borg, Louisa Mirella, Dr John Connors, Tony Conlan, David Black, Geraldine & Ron Pearson, Prof Oliver MacDonagh, Luke Webber, Fr Paddy and Fr Barney Lynch, Francesca Barbaro, Frank Dwyer, Carmel and Jim Barron, Frank Brennan, Braulio Gomes, Vince Gallagher, Annette Smith, Peter Ryan, Hazel
Hobday, Cosimo
Sciannimanica , Margaret Ellen McGuigan, William John Edward McCarthy , Kevin McGuire, Imre Soos , Mile
Vrkic, Barry Edward Moran , Geraldine Anne Lynch , Maria Josephine Price , Veronica Howell , Cecelia Marie Coppin , Gary Dudley
Cannon
Other Prayer Requests: Teopilo Fuentes, Francesco Barbaro, Margarita de Bustamante, Maria de Guzman & M. Guzman (Senior),
Daniel Kesuma, Vince Gallagher, Fr Hunt, Pat de Dassel, Arthur Burt, Robertson and Dwyer families, Patrick Develin, Bishop Morgan, Bill Hannah, John Cox Boomer, Thomas & Dorothy Clowry, Marilyn Webb, Ivo Webb , Susan Meredith, Silvio Cadona, William
& Ann Duffy, John & Kitty Duffy, Darby, Mary & Eileen Biggs, Biggs & OToole Families, Phil OToole , Arthur & Joe Drury and the
Reddy, Engelman & Kersten families, Members of the Rodrigues & Gonsalvez Families, Ken OReillly

NINETEENTH SUNDAY IN ORDINARY TIME
GLEANINGS FROM THE GOSPEL
The gospel passage we hear today invites our imaginations to conjure a nighttime scene. While Jesus remains
on shore in prayer, the disciples are huddled in a fishing boat several miles out on the Sea of Galilee as wind and
waves threaten to founder the craft. Suddenly, from the boat the disciples spy a ghost-like figure coming toward
them walking upon the turbulent sea. It is Peter who first realizes that it is not a ghost but Jesus. And, as seems to
happen frequently to this first of the apostles, Jesus tests Peters faith. Peter said, Lord, if it is you, command me
to come to you on the water. Jesus said, Come. Peter got out of the boat and began to walk on the water toward
Jesus. But when he saw how strong the wind was he became frightened; and, beginning to sink, he cried out,
Lord, save me! (Matthew 14:28-30) Miraculously, Peter is able to walk upon the turbulent sea as long as he
keeps his gaze fixed upon Jesus. Its only when Peter diverts his focus, allowing his eyes to stray from Jesus to the
raging waters beneath him, and the storm raging around him that he begins to sink. And so it is for us.
Keeping our eyes on Jesus is something we struggle with  particularly when the going gets tough, and the
storms of life surround us, filling us with disease, discouragement or fear. We become embroiled in the turmoil
and we forget that Jesus stands in the middle of the chaos, stretching out his hand and saying come. We fail to
understand he is the Master of the Universe. He is the stillness at the centre of the storm.
Jesus says to Peter and to us: How little faith you have! You panic too quickly in the face of adversity. You trust
me in little things but when the going gets tough youre afraid I will let you down. You trusted me enough to take
the first steps. Why can you not believe that I will stick by you until the end? Why indeed!
But, a little faith is nothing to be sneezed at  it gets us out of the boat; a larger faith enables us to hang on and
find our peace in the peace and stillness of Christ. That is what Jesus is telling Peter. Faith is willingness to risk 
and to hang on, even when doubts assail us.
What we have to remember is that God is the God of chaos as well as order. In the presence of Christ we find
our peace. Losing sight of that presence moves us into fear. We sink beneath the storm and sea. Hang on, hang in,
trust. That is what we have to do. That is what faith calls us to do.

Liturgical Ministries
Time

NINETEENTH SUNDAY IN ORDINARY TIME YEAR A

Readers

6/7 August

EMHCs

13/14 August

6/7 August

13/14 August

Welcomers

Collectors

6/7 August

6/7 August

6.00 pm

Denis Fisher
Tan Roberts
Margaret McKinnon Sheila Van Gent

Mary Debus
Margaret Phelan

Margaret McKinnon Brian OConnell
John Frawley
Margaret Frawley
Peter Sutherland

John Frawley

8.00 am

Maureen Kilmartin
Phil Pocock

Dione Smith
Laura Healy

Mary Prosser

Maureen Kilmartin
Phillip Pocock

Richard Dodson
Rita Dodson

Tony Pelle
Merve OBrien
Jim Bauer

9.30 am

Jaye Longland
Margaret Grant

Colliss Parrett
Therese Jordan

Gwen Winchester

Genevieve Power
Terry Murphy

Margaret Butkus

Joe Flaherty
Keith Hawke
Allan Read
George Foster
Eddy Scheckenbach
Arnold Coutimho
Brian Jordan

11.00 am

Judith Terrill
Len Lambeth

Liz Porra
Aaron McDonnell

Jacqueline Hipwell
Mark Hyman

Ceciley Matthews
Edwina Hyman

Jacqueline Hipwell

Mark & Edwina Hyman

5.30 pm

Robert Davies
Mary-Lou Davies

Youth Mass

Enid Martin

Mary Lou Davies
Robert Davies

Christopher Fearon

Patrick McNamara
Christopher Fearon

St. Christophers Cathedral Parish encompasses the areas of Barton, Causeway, Deakin, Forrest, Fyshwick, Griffith, Kingston,
Manuka, Parkes, Red Hill, Yarralumla

