Thelema | CRYSTI·OLOGY
Skip to content
CRYSTI·OLOGY
Exploring Life. Experiencing El Paso.
Menu
Home Blog Résumé
Tag: Thelema
The Great Work and The 6 Realms of Suffering
July 16, 2013 1 Comment
Y oga studios and
alternative healing
centers are finally becoming popular in my city. I’m pretty stoked about this development – I am always looking for fellowship in these sorts of practices so that I can build tangible knowledge and meet people who perhaps share the same life ideologies that I do.
I’m not a yogi but I am a
Thelemite  and practicing
yoga
is one of the many methods to obtain knowledge of the self and lead us on our individual paths, known as the
Great Work .
This past Sunday, I attended a workshop at
The Root , a yoga studio down the street from my place. The workshop was about the “6 Ways That We Suffer & How Not To” and was led by
Michael Boyle . I found out about the workshop through Facebook and the event page recommended the following article as a primer on what we were going to discuss:
The Six Ways We Suffer
I read the article and took one of my Moleskine journals with me to the workshop to write notes. I recommend you read the above article to gain an understanding of the lecture. If you’re interested in hearing what Michael had to teach us that day, listen to the below MP3:
http://crystiology.files.wordpress.com/2013/07/michael-boyle.wav
To learn more about the 6 realm teachings, please visit  http://www.dharmainc.org/
31.806491
-106.507642
There Is No Write But Wrong
May 10, 2013 May 11, 2013
It just came as a shock to me that my personal blog got nominated for a
Best of the Best Award . I would say a mini celebration is in order but as you can see from my previous post dates, blogging hasn’t come easily for me lately.
So I felt I should write – not because of the nomination itself but because I’ve realized that I’ve become so incredibly one-track-minded that I haven’t even had time to continue to cultivate what began my career to begin with.
I suppose I shall announce at this point that I’ve landed the best job in the entire known Universe: I’m THE social media coordinator for the
El Paso Convention and Visitors Bureau, otherwise known as Visit El Paso . The job landed on my lap as a sheer coincidence in a moment of pure desperation. The story goes like this:
I had bought a car – a shitty one, mind you – from a well known street here known for selling shitty cars. I had it coming to me; the engine blew a gasket, the fuel pump probably melted into Hell and it’s currently growing mold in my boyfriend’s father’s mechanic shop.
It goes without saying that I had (and still don’t have) a vehicle, yet I worked all the way in
Santa Teresa, NM . For several months, I relied on the kindheartedness of my fellow work mates and commuted to work this way. Of course at some point you start feeling like a mooch even though I did compensate them for gas money. I started looking for jobs Downtown (where I live) and I ran across several – one of them being the Social Media Coordinator for Visit El Paso.
I knew this was the job for me. I applied, followed up, showed up, got interviewed and landed the job. Since that point, I stopped my podcast, I stopped writing, I stopped my religious practice and worse yet, I stopped painting.
I get paid well for what I do but I can clearly see that my work has completely overtaken my life.
Is that okay? I mean, it’s truly
a job I enjoy . Some days it feels like “work” but other days – when I’m video taping a bike ride, editing photos on Photoshop, Tweeting people, making connections – it’s all VERY fun. I love this job so incredibly much!
Art &
Thelema
will become a part of my life again. They’re always going to me major elements in my life; I buy art & attend art shows regularly and my life ideologies have been formed around the tenets of Thelema. However, there comes a time when you’ve got to push on the brakes, take a look at your life and see if there’s anything you’ve  left out or anyone you’ve forgotten.
I won’t win the Best of the Best thing. Shit, I didn’t even know I was a nominee. If I get nominated next year, I sure as hell hope my blog isn’t as sparse as it is now.
This is my commitment to myself: I will paint a magnificent piece, unlike anything you’ve seen me do before, perhaps by the time June has come. I intend for it to be a gift to my boyfriend in celebration of our first complete year together. Hold me to it.
Now it’s YOUR turn: Take some time to reflect. Are you missing out on anything in your life right now? What can you do to re-establish that connection again?
Related articles
Social Media Game ‘El Paso. It’s All Good’ Unveiled
(hispanicbusiness.com)
31.806491
-106.507642
May Doodle: The Nemean Lion
April 29, 2012 April 29, 2012
I finally finished my second installment in my Astrology /
Liber 777
series. It’s a fairly large acrylic on canvas piece measuring in at 30 x 40, and is titled ‘The
Nemean Lion ‘
The Nemean Lion is based completely on the
Astrological symbol
Leo and was inspired by someone I loved very deeply as his sun sign was Leo. Both of my brothers also happen to be Leo’s as well, so I am grateful for that.
The Story and Symbolism:
I like to title my astrological paintings after the Grecian lore behind them; for example, the Nemean Lion was killed by Hercules as the First of his
Twelve Labors . This lion was known to have an impenetrable pelt and claws stronger than steel, yet because Hercules managed to conquer him, the lion’s likeness was placed in the sky.
The Symbols:
You’ll notice a few symbols on the work. At the crest above The Nemean Lion’s head sits the Leo Symbol (♌) which is just a simplified glyph of the lion’s head and mane.
On the lower left hand side of the work, you’ll see a small group of symbols that were all obtained as correspondences for Leo in
Aleister Crowley’s
book Liber 777.
The Sun is the ruling planet for Leo. This symbol is also used to represent Ra, the Egyptian Sun God, which is also very relevant in
Thelema . Having the Sun as a ruling planet gives the Leo a very strong, passionate edge…full of pride and ego.
The element of Fire rules Leo. Fire is the Divine Spark of the Universe, so to speak, so those ruled by Fire tend to be more intuitive than other signs. Unfortunately,
Fire signs
can also be stubborn and impulsive.
The last symbol is The
Goetic
Sigil of Beleth. Quoted from the
Ars Goetia :
The Thirteenth Spirit is called Beleth (or
Bileth , or Bilet). He is a mighty King and terrible. He rideth on a pale horse with trumpets and other kinds of musical instruments playing before him. He is very furious at his first appearance, that is, while the Exorcist layeth his courage…
The Colors:
The Queen Scale of color is deep purple and the Empress scale is reddish amber. I tried incorporating that into the crest and the background pattern.
Related articles
The Tale of Astraea  (Crystiology.com)
The Modern Nemean Lion
(theheroicway.com)
31.806491
-106.507642
Ethics and Thelema
January 13, 2012 1 Comment
The other day my
Qabalah
teacher was unable to make it to our monthly discussion session since he just recently opened a new yoga and reiki studio in
El Paso
and had some classes to attend to. He called me up a few hours before the meeting and asked if I could take over; I was surprised AND happy to have been offered the opportunity.
Once I got off the phone with him, I started brainstorming ideas as to what I wanted to discuss that day. Our group had recently started the process for Minerval Initiations with Scarlet Woman Lodge over from Austin, TX, so I figured that maybe discussing some beginner literature would be the best fit.
I decided on using
Aleister Crowley’s
‘Duty’ essay to illustrate the topic of
Ethics of Thelema  (Download Link). In a nutshell, the Ethics of Thelema are as follows:
Duty to Yourself
Duty to Other Individual Men and Women
Duty to Mankind
Duty to All Other Beings and Things
It’s a fairly universalistic and simple concept with many explanations and interpretations. That’s where the rest of our two hour conversation went.
Where things got particularly interesting is when one of the members wanted to discuss his Catholic upbringing and Thelema. He mentioned that he first began to doubt his faith when he started contemplating the origins of
Catholicism in Mexico ; how the Spaniards pillaged the lands, converted the Pagan populace to
Catholicism .
He explained that he enjoyed praying, even though he is slowly trying to break away from the Catholic mentality. He wanted to know if there were any prayers he could recite as a
Thelemite , because whenever he got to praying, it seemed as if all he could muster up was an ‘Our Father’.
It is important to note that Thelema isn’t a ‘religion’ persay, but a philosophy of life. I explained this to him and mentioned that he
could  keep his Catholic customs if he liked but that he should take the time to educate himself on the full scope of Catholicism. To date, there are 23 different types of Catholicism, not including  Gnosticism . If he should choose to do this, he
could
take the information he acquired and create his own ‘ Tree of Life ‘ with the corresponding prayers, saints etc.
After this speech, we took a natural segway into how to work The Tree of Life. Because Thelema is such an involved practice, I explained that there are two methods that we all need to be aware of: Literal Qabala and Pathworking.
Literal Qabalah is just as it sounds: studying, reading, and understanding the meanings behind each path and sephira. Pathworking is completely spiritual and takes far more time to work through…meditation, visualization, self-discovery.
It was a very informative session to say the least. If you live in El Paso, you can join our discussion panels by heading over to
Meetup
and joining our
El Paso Qabalah and Raja Yoga Group.
31.806491
-106.507642
My First Tattoo: The Sigil of Babalon
December 27, 2011 March 16, 2013 2 Comments
I got my first tattoo yesterday thanks to  Sic Studio / The House of Color.
This tattoo carries a lot of meaning for me. It is the Sigil of Babalon and the
Babalon
is a figure that is central to my practice and is revered in many ways.
The pain was somewhat minimal. This tattoo was implemented between my shoulder blades, so the gun strokes on the right and left sides hurt more than the strokes on the spine.
The piece took about 2 and a half hours to complete. It measures about 3 to 4 inches in diameter and I gave artistic freedom to David Ibarra, the tattoo artist, to modify the image as he saw fit.
He decided to shade the star in going from red to black and also added the swirled embellishments on the outsides of the circle.
The concept of Babalon is an archetype that is steeped in historical significance across a multitude of faiths, not just Thelema. The Babalon is known by many names: The Victorious Queen, The Scarlet Woman, the hidden name of
Nuit , The Great Mother, The Mother of Abominations  and  The Gateway to the City of Pyramids. Babalon is also associated with the Goddess Ishtar.
One of her main purposes is the celebration of the sexual energy that emanates from every which one of us. From her all life derives. I compare Babalon with the Catholic diety known as ‘The
Virgin Mary ‘ although it would be obvious that in this case, virginity and piety would be the major exclusions.
A few quotes that can help illustrate our viewpoint of
Sex :
“When you have proved that God is merely a name for the sex instinct, it appears to me not far to the perception that the sex instinct is God.”
” The sex-instinct is one of the most deeply-seated expressions of the will; and it must not be restricted, either negatively by preventing its free function, or positively by insisting on its false function.”
“Every one should discover, by experience of every kind, the extent and intention of his own sexual Universe.”
For those
Thelemites
who would enjoy reading a little more into the lore and purpose of Our Lady, you can refer to the following resources to gain more familiarity to her:
Liber CLVI  (also known as Liber Cheth vel Vallum Abigni) : “It instructs the aspirant how to dissolve his personality in the
Universal Life .”
The Confessions of Aleister Crowley (Chapter 66)
Liber Al Vel Legis
Wikipedia’s entry for
Babalon
I hope to get another set of tattoos next month. Stay tuned!
31.806491
-106.507642
The Knowledge of the Universe, Part 3: What is Qabalah?
July 26, 2011 July 26, 2011 2 Comments
Image via Wikipedia
Today we delve into a most delectable subject, one that I can write passionately about for aeons. The subject of Western Qabalah is a difficult one to tackle and even more difficult to explain in a concise manner.
First things first is the issue of spelling the name. Qabalah can be spelled: Kaballah, Kabbalah, Kabalah, Kabala, Qaballah, Qabbalah, Qabalah,
Qabala ,
Caballah ,
Cabbalah , Caballah Cabala etc.
I have gotten used to spelling Qabalah as “Kabbalah” with a “K” although this is something I am certainly trying to break out of habit from.
There IS a  difference between these two traditions, although both are obviously extremely similar.
{Kabbalah}
is a very old system of
mystical Jewish
teachings separate from what we know as
Judaism . The basis of Kabbalah is to understand the purpose of the human being, our role in the Universe and spiritual realization. This ‘traditional’ Kabbalah uses the following texts as it’s foundation:
The
Torah
The Sepher Yetzirah
The
Zohar
other rabbinical texts…
Kabbalah attempts to explain and understand
God
in a metaphysical nature. Also, traditional Kabbalah has been forbidden for women to learn and a man must be at least 40 years old to begin to study these mysteries of God.
On the other side of the spectrum, we have
{Qabalah}
which is what modern
Thelemites
use in their practice and pathworking. Although this practice certainly evolved from Jewish Kabbalah, we can also call this
Hermetic
Qabalah. There are no age or gender restrictions in order to study.
Qabalah attempts to help us understand the ‘self’ in the Universe,
the metaphysical world and the correspondences in real life that help us attune to ourselves and the Universe as a whole. I like to think of Qabalah as a spiritual aggregator that  puts absolutely everything in a category and that virtual file cabinet is the
Tree of Life .
Aleister Crowley
and
S.L. MacGregor Mathers
spent  much of their study compiling a book of correspondences to real-life and the astral world known as the ‘ Liber 777 ‘. This book is quite authoritative and useful in determining which paths and sephirot are attributed to which elements.
Another book that can help someone along the path of magickal Qabalah is ‘ A Garden of Pomegranates ‘ by
Israel Regardie .
{The Tree of Life}
is the map that is used in all forms of Qabbalah and is an ideal way to categorize life itself. Through the applied use of the Tree of Life we can:
Identify the attributes within us that make us god.
Understand the external world and how it affects us.
Recognize where we are stuck in life and what we can do to get unstuck.
The Tree of Life is made up of 10 energy spheres called the Sephira, which represent the Planets and 22 paths, which represent each of the
Hebrew letters . Together, they form a representational map of ourselves AND the Universe, as absolutely
everything  can be categorized into this system.
Qabalah, the Tree of Life and it’s corresponding practices are absolutely essential to Thelema.
I hope you’ve enjoyed this [very] short overview and hope that you research and study on about Thelema and Qabalah, as it will truly put things into perspective on an intellectual level. Spirituality through intellect.
Related articles
The Knowledge of the Universe, Part 2: Thelemic Organizations
(crystiology.com)
The Knowledge of the Universe: Part 1
(crystiology.com)
Kabbalah for the Student
(cybeeonline.wordpress.com)
31.806491
-106.507642
The Knowledge of the Universe, Part 2: Thelemic Organizations
July 14, 2011 1 Comment
Image via Wikipedia
This second installment of my little mini-series will mainly be about the
Thelemic
groups that I am personally knowledgeable about. For those readers who have been tagging along, I hope that my unintended exclusion of certain groups is not irksome to you.
The purpose of discussing these different groups  is to show how one Philosophy can be applied in different formats, yet still with the same singular goal of ‘Do What Thou Will’ and to discover one’s own
True Will .
The methods of practice are essentially the same among the groups. The same Libers and same curriculum but employed in slightly varied methods. It is interesting to note that each group has an emphasis all of their own. The most distinguishable symbol and methodology of practice among all studies is the devoted use of the
Kabbalah
Tree of Life, which we will discuss in further detail on the next installment.
As the Tree of Life is an allegorical map of the Universe, so is the Tree a map of ourselves.
{Rosicrucians}
Although not a Thelemic order by any extent of the definition, I believe that it is important to mention the Rosicrucians in this article, as they were an important precursor to some of the more modern Thelemic thought and practice that we know today. The Rosicrucians can be said to be the beginnings of Freemasonry and practiced many esoteric beliefs that were thought to be heretical at the time.
Rosicrucianism, at the most basic and simplistic level, can be described as a fusion of Christian and Egytptian thought. It was said to be established in 46 C.E. by a small group of intellectuals that were enlightened and initiated by Mark, one of the disciples of the Christian prophet, Jesus.
As centuries went by and the
Rosicrucian Order
continued it’s work, Hermeticism, Alchemy, Astrology,
Qabalah
and Gnosticism became cornerstones of the study.
{ Hermetic Order of the Golden Dawn }
Taking on the history of the HOGD is an enormous and daunting task to say the least. A very concise and rich history of the establishment of the HOGD can be found
HERE .
To an attempt a summary of the modern history of the HOGD, I will start out by saying that it was established in 1888 by Dr.
William Wynn Westcott
and  Samuel Liddell MacGregor Mathers . The Hermetic Order of the Golden Dawn was a complex body of teaching and ritual magical practice brought together  Kabbalistic cosmology , the Rosicrucian initiation system, ritual magic,  Egyptology ,  astrology , tarot, and various other such magical and occult streams.
The HOGD is certainly the influnce behind the establishment behind Thelema, Wicca and
Western mysticism
in general. The grade structure found in the Hermetic Order of the Golden Dawn is identical to that of Freemasonry and the Astrum Argentum (A∴A∴) and is based on the positions of the Tree of Life.
Aleister Crowley
was an initiate of the Golden Dawn and his inclusion was met with a lot of controversy and resentment due to having been initiated to the Order on a higher degree by his friend
S.L. MacGregor Mathers . Much more on this subject can be found in the history linked above.
However, due to this blatant shunning, Aleister went off to create his own branch, based off of a similar grade structure, yet with a differently flavored energy.
{ Astrum Argentum }
After having been met with so much of the internal drama that the Hermetic Order of the Golden Dawn had shown, Aleister Crowley branched off and started the Astrum Argentum. The A∴A∴, as it has come to be known, is very similar to Ordo Templi Orientis, but is a separate organization altogether.
I like to think that what makes the A∴A∴ different is that individual study is highly encouraged. Now, I know that Thelema itself is a highly individualized philosophy, but in this specific group of Astrum Argentum (which means Silver Star in Latin) all study is expected to be completed alone, and at the end of each prescribed course of study, you take a test, perform a few rituals and move on to the next degree.
{ Ordo Templi Orientis }
This is the organization I feel most closely tied with as I am a seeking my Minerval (introductory initiation) very soon and am most familiar with it’s curriculum.
O.T.O has an interesting history in regards to it’s establishment. It was originally intended as a branch of Freemasonry but then good ol’ Mr. Crowley came about and turned the OTO into the awesome group I know and love today. The practice of Thelema is the object of study and the relaization of Self Gnosis (knowledge) is key.
The purpose and mission of OTO is BEST described with the below statement:
It offers a rational basis for universal brotherhood and for universal religion. It puts forward a scientific statement which is a summary of all that is at present known about the universe by means of a simple, yet sublime symbolism, artistically arranged. It also enables each man to discover for himself his personal destiny, indicates the moral and intellectual qualities which he requires in order to fulfil it freely, and finally puts in his hands an unimaginably powerful weapon which he may use to develop in himself every faculty which he may need in his work.
-Aleister Crowley,
Confessions
Other tenets that the OTO holds close are the following statements, which are derived from Aleister Crowley’s “Book of the Law”:
1. Do What Thou Will.
2. Love is the Law, love under will.
3. Every man and every woman is a star.
I like to think that the O.T.O. is different from the Astrum Argentum in that the O.T.O. is a universal brotherhood and everyone is quite close knit, or at least are intended to be.
Here are some GREAT resources for the readership to do their own research:
U.S. Grand Lodge of the Ordo Templi Orientis
Scarlet Woman Lodge, What is O.T.O?
Thelemapedia Entry for Ordo Templi Orientis
I hope that this semi-brief overview of some of the history of Thelema and it’s current more common organizations was useful to you. If there is anything you would like to impart, please do so in the comments section.
31.806491
-106.507642
The Knowledge of the Universe: Part 1
June 28, 2011 December 19, 2012 2 Comments
The Lamen and trademark of the Ordo Templi Orientis, a Thelemic organization (Photo credit: Wikipedia)
I have been an ardent follower of
Thelema
for sometime now, and if any of the readership is familar with this Theology, then they will understand that Qabalah is an integral part of the practice. When someone asks, What is Thelema? What is Qabalah? I usually give the same general answer without delving too deeply:
‘It is a philosophy that focuses on developing and enhancing the
Inner God , through use of different meditation techniques and intellectual advancement.’
This is essentially the short of it. If I see that someone gets an interested spark in their eyes, I go on and explain more. However, most of the time, I get a confused look. In fact, these are some of the more common
misunderstandings
that I often encounter:
Thelemic? Is that like, bulemic?
You don’t believe in
God ? Are you a
Satanist ?
Oh that’s a lot like
Wicca , isn’t it?
Qabalah…that’s what
Madonna
practices right?
Some of these statements are more ignorant than others as you can very well see, but that’s alright with me; everyone is in the dark before they are enlightened.
I have discussed Thelema briefly before on this blog, but never really went into it in-depth, today I will only discuss the Philosophy of Thelema, how it came to be, and what it means to me.
{What is Thelema?}
Thelemic thought and theology is a consolidation and continually developing philosophy based on several historical precendents. It is believed that the ‘First Thelemite’ was François Rabelais, a 15th century Benedectine Monk.
A later version of Thelema later in the 15th century would spring forth from Francis Dashwood and The Hellfire Club. Their theology would incorporate Goddess worship, Freemasonry and the unabashed enjoyment of life’s sultry pleasures.
Thelema gained significant momentum in the previous century thanks to Aleister Crowley and the penning of The Book of The Law. In modern Thelema, acceptance of the Book of the Law, also referred to as Liber Al vel Legis is the common denominator amongst the practiotioners. This ‘book’ is quite small and states the following Thelemic Laws:
“ Do what thou wilt
shall be the whole of the Law” (AL I:40) and
“Love is the law, love under will” (AL I:57).
These are our only Laws. Beyond that, each person is left to their own interpretation in conformity to their own Will.
{Thelemic Groups}
Although there are thousands of organizations around the world that provide fellowship, practice and guidance, there have been two Thelemic fraternities in history that have established the precedent for the organized study and practice of our Law:
Argentium Astrum, commonly referred to as the A∴A∴
Ordo Templi Orientis Grade structure between these two groups vary somewhat. This topic is one that could certainly be a post all of it’s own and will likely be part 2 of this series.
{How to Practice Thelema}
The beautiful thing about Thelema is that it can be practiced however, whenever and wherever you wish. Staying true to the Law of ‘Do What Thou Wilt’, a practitioner can accept Thelema whole heartedly as a Religion, or can just use the Philosophy and follow the regimented studies or simply accept the Law as their own and do nothing henceforth.
Any one of any faith is welcome to join whether they are Buddhist, Deist, Christian, or Jewish. However, higher-degree members are expected to avoid allowing their participation in other groups to unduly limit the time and energy they can devote to their O.T.O. obligations.
In general, the practicing of Thelema follows a path of initiatory degrees. These paths are attributed to the Qabalic Tree of Life, which I will discuss in detail on Part 3 of this short series.
{What Thelema Means to Me}
Thelema is the best belief structure for me. I am a modern person who believes in absolute liberty and my morals are not as stringent as our forefathers were, I believe in enjoying ALL the pleasures of life. I strongly believe in advancing the ‘Self’ through knowledge…education is such an important virtue.
Through the practice of Thelema and making my way up the paths, I have gained immeasurable knowledge of the faiths of Man, the way of the world and the truths of the Universe. I am fully able to follow exactly what I believe:
Every man and every woman is a star.
I do not believe in worshiping something outside of myself that purports to control my life. We are all part of this Universe, and derive our energy from it. As we give ourselves to the Universe, so the Universe gives to us and so we are in constant flux with the energies around us.
I hope this article gave you a small glimpse into Thelema. By no means is it an authoritarian explanation, nor does it address all the complex topics that this system and so I strongly advise anyone interested to look into the below links:
OTO Grand Chapter
Thelema NOW! Podcast
Scarlet Woman Lodge
Thelemapedia
Hermetic Library
Invisible House ORG
Related articles
Why I Am Not a Christian
(crystiology.com)
Aleister Crowley: His Elite Ties and His Legacy
(worldtruthtoday.com)
31.806491
-106.507642
Why I Am Not a Christian
April 10, 2011 July 18, 2014 7 Comments
I tend to post a lot of spiritual things on
Twitter
but what people don’t seem to understand is what I actually believe in. Sometimes, I get asked about my personal beliefs & being vague about them often satisfies their curiosities.
This post is to explain what I was, what I am and what I plan to be.
What I
{was}
: As a Hispanic, I was born into a Catholic upbringing. Once my mother remarried, I was then exposed to a
Baptist
household. The catalyst came when I turned 11. I was exposed to
Wicca
through a middle school friend who had lent me “Wicca 101”.
What I
{am}
: I am a follower of Thelema. I wasn’t always a Thelemite… but I discovered Thelema long before I made it my personal philosophy through
Invisible House.org .
What makes Thelema ideal is that it focuses on the inner god and encourages the person to follow his or her own true ‘Will’. Whether the path is destructive or constructive, through chaos or peace, all paths will and should ultimately lead to the discovery of your
True Will .
All of Thelemic thought and philosophy is based on the
Kabbalah
Tree of Life. ALL things can be categorized within the Tree of Life whether you are a
Christian , Buddhist or completely Agnostic. Any follower of any faith can be a follower of Thelema, although I prefer a more puritanical approach and follow Thelema with no other dogmas.
I am not a Christian because:
It is based on faith without fact.
The Bible, it’s source of followers and textbook for study, is historically incomplete, hypocritical and due to varying cultures and languages, is interpreted differently.
Because of said interpretational differences, a majority of the wars in this world have been purported by the differences in this
blind faith .
It’s main dogma is to believe in an external
God , a
male God ,  the ultimate creator and destroyer of all things.
It discourages introspection, as all energy ‘should’ be directed toward the ‘praising and exaltation’ of this one God.
All things in this world should be questioned. All topics are up for debate. True religion is the religion of the ‘Self’ as one would perceive it to be. What right has a man to say that he has a soul if he cannot feel it or that there is a God if he does not see it?
Although my blog is not exclusively one about Kabbalah or Thelema, I’d like to hear your thoughts, questions and retorts on my thoughts. Educated debate and exploration is always welcome here.
31.806491
-106.507642
Explaining The Law of Attraction
February 3, 2011 January 23, 2013 4 Comments
First and foremost, let me explain that
the Law of Attraction
has nothing to do with attracting romance in the traditional sense. It does, however have to do with
the concept of attracting positivity to your life with your
thought process . So in a sense, it can be said that it is a form of romancing the Universe with thought.
The Law if Attraction has been touted as a New Age form of thinking and has even been accused of having occult ties. Being a
Thelemite
myself, I can certainly attest to The
Law of Attraction
having occult undertones. After all, what is Magick?
Dion Fortune
defines magick as:
…the science and art of causing change to occur in conformity with Will.
The Law of Attraction can be best described with this quote from “ Ask and It Is Given ” by Esther and Jerry Hicks, who have become the absolute authorities on The Law of Attraction in the 21st century:
“Every thought vibrates, every thought radiates a signal, and every thought attracts a matching signal back. We call that process the Law of Attraction. The Law of Attraction says: That which is like unto itself is drawn. And so, you might see the powerful Law of Attraction as a sort of Universal Manager that sees to it that all thoughts that match one another line up.
{why?}
We are a species that is always in competition with one another yet at the same time, trying to find fellowship along our way on the road of life. What the Law of Attraction does is
allow you to take your life into your own control.
It eliminates scapegoats and forces you to be the maker of your own world.
What many people don’t know is that there is a branch of science that performs very in-depth experiments on the power of thought. This science, which at times transcends it’s own definition, is
Noetic Science . I have mused about this branch of science before and find this science very fascinating. I implore you to click on the above link to find out more.
{who?}
The Law of Attraction is all about YOU. Even so, throughout the centuries, there have been ‘authorities’ that have made The Law of Attraction a part of their life’s work and is definitely worth the research. Here are some resources to get you going:
Thomas Troward
–
“The Edinburg Lectures on Mental Science”
William Walker Atkinson
–
“Though Vibration or The Law of Attraction in The Thought World”
[PDF]
Wallace D. Wattles
“The Science of Getting Rich”
The Secret (a 2006 film)
{how?}
I finally end this post with some more useful tidbits to help bring the Law of Attraction into your life. Use these affirmations by repeating them daily, writing them on the front page of your Moleskine or Planner or setting them as your computer desktop image:
Everything I need and desire for a pleasant life comes easily and naturally to me.
Life’s riches come to me as I require or desire them and my life is wonderfully abundant.
Money comes easily and abundantly to me enabling my life to be pleasant, secure, and filled with plenty.
I am mentally and physically healthy; well being is my natural state.
My mind and body are healthy; my healthy, strong immune system keeps me safe.
My perfect mate is nearby and will soon be with me.
I am surrounded by people who love and care for me.
My soul mate is attracted to me and is on the path toward me.
I unconditionally love all beings, human, animal, and plant.
I choose to feel as good as possible at every moment of my life; even in difficult times, I remain positive, optimistic, and hopeful.
The difficult times in my life are brief, quickly replaced by good times and happy moments.
Like this post? Leave me a comment below or join in on the action on Twitter and send me a message
@CrystiCouture .
Related Articles
Why is The Law of Attraction So Hard to Apply?
(socyberty.com)
11 Forgotten Laws – Furthering The Secret
(fitnesstipsforlife.com)
How To Attract Abundance
(healthlifestyleforever.com)
31.806491
-106.507642
Posts navigation
Older posts
Follow Blog via Email
Enter your email address to follow this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Join 5,430 other followers
Recent Posts
Travelogue: Dripping Springs in Las Cruces, NM
Pinteresting Food [2] : How To Make Homemade Hummus
How To Survive A Juice Detox Cleanse
Beer, Music and Writing | Fusion Magazine #79
There’s A First Time For Everything: #MealPrepMondays
Popular Posts
How to Plan an Expo and Not Go Insane
The Absolute Guide to Extracting MP3's from a Soundboard
Confused About The Last Exorcism? Don't Be
WELCOME!
Evernote Love #4: The 2015 Moleskine Evernote Planner
October Doodle: Thoth Tarot Deck Box
Ethics and Thelema
OMFG Boz Eyeglasses!
New Years Anthem 2010 By Fatman Scoop and DJ CLass Lyrics
May Doodle: The Goddess Kwan Yin
Associated With:
Femfessionals
Fusion Magazine
Paso Del Norte Health Foundation
Texas Trost Society
Visit El Paso
About Crysti I'm driven by two things: my passion for El Paso and showing the world the talent that the City has to offer. I've done plenty of freelance writing in the past and have written for publications such as
El Paso Times ,
Fusion Magazine ,
915 Lifestyle
and
SMG Events . Social & Multimedia Coordinator for
Destination El Paso . See my full portfolio
HERE.
Visit El Paso Instagram
Twitter
Facebook
Pinterest
LinkedIn
Google+
Email
Create a free website or blog at WordPress.com .
|
The sela Theme .
Follow
Follow “CRYSTI·OLOGY”
Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.
Join 5,430 other followers
Build a website with WordPress.com
Add your thoughts here... (optional)
Post to
Cancel