What's Your Favorite Flower?
| ChristianSuperMom.com
Connect With Me
Home
Disclosures
About Me
Speaking
Blog
Refuel Your Inner SuperMom
Resources
SuperMom Shop
Free Stuff
My Favorite Places
Special Requests
Advertise/Sponsorship
What’s Your Favorite Flower?
by
Rosann Cunningham
Reflections From My Heart
If you're new here, you may want to subscribe!
Just enter your email address in the form in the sidebar.
Thanks for visiting! Every once in a while I like to share reflections from my heart, from my life, and from my thoughts.
Today my thoughts are on flowers.
Because my birthday is in May, I was always taught that my birthstone  was an Emerald and my birth flower was Lily of the Valley.
The beautiful green stone I loved!  The flower...not so much.   See my favorite flower was always the Rose.   Rose is even part of my name.
In fact, I was named in part, after my sweet great Grannie, Rosella Smith.  As a child, I hated my name, always feeling like it was so old-fashioned.  But the one way I was able to rationalize it was by the beauty of the flower tied to the name.
So today I did a search on Lily of the Valley in Wikipedia.  I was thinking perhaps I didn't give it enough of a chance as a child.  Maybe as an adult I would see it from a different perspective.   Haha...well, that's an understatement.
Here's what Wikipedia says about Lily of the Valley:
commonly known as the
lily-of-the-valley , is a
poisonous
woodland
flowering plant
native throughout the cool temperate
Northern Hemisphere
in
Asia
and
Europe .
Convallaria majalis
is a popular
garden
plant, grown for its scented flowers and for its ground-covering abilities in shady locations.
Some consider it a
weed , as it can spread over a wide area in gardens and can be difficult to contain or remove.
Not too impressed with it so far!
But then I read this:
Christian legend
The flower is also known as
Our Lady's tears
or
Mary's tears
from
Christian legends
that it sprang from the
weeping
of the
Virgin Mary
during the
crucifixion of Jesus . Other etiologies its coming into being from Eve's tears after she was driven with Adam from the
Garden of Eden [12]
or from the blood shed by
Saint Leonard of Noblac
during his battles with a dragon.
The name "lily of the valley" is also used in some English translations of the
Bible
in
Song of Songs
2:1, although whether or not the
Hebrew
word " shoshana " (usually denoting a
rose ) originally used there refers to this species is uncertain.
It is a symbol of humility in religious painting. Lily of the valley is considered the sign of Christ's second coming. The power of men to envision a better world was also attributed to the lily of the valley.
Okay, that's pretty awesome!!  I'm still not a fan of the flower, but I love the Christian legend that goes with it.
What's your favorite flower?
Source:
craftykat-mycraftyplayground.blogspot.com
via
Rosann
on
Pinterest
Today I'm linking up with Ann Voskamp's
One Thousand Gifts .
#101 - My daughter, Faith, as she has gone above and beyond what was asked of her for her weekly chores.  My sweet 6yr old dusted our entire house willingly and joyfully!
#102 - Sweet compliments at church.  Dressed in a new black dress yesterday, I received several compliments about how great I looked and how bright my face looks without the stress of unemployment looming overhead.
#103 - My new holy jeans.  They are awesome.  Truly awesome!  I only own one pair and I didn't pay for them myself.  I would never pay good money for pair of torn/worn jeans.  But my goodness these are so comfy to wear!
#104 - So grateful that God opened my eyes this week to see that I need to better prioritize my time.
#105 - Having a soft heart of compassion is sometimes too much for me to deal with, but I wouldn't have it any other way.
#106 - Healthy parents.
#107 - That feeling when I'm just waking up and my eyes are still closed.  It's the feeling in my eyelids.  Like they just feel so good being closed that they don't want to open.
#108 - Understanding the truth behind this statement:  "Our thoughts and our hearts greatest focus becomes our reality."
#109 - Long conversations with my husband.
#110 - The warmth of my husband's hand when he reaches over to grab mine.
#111 - Grateful to have eternal life, for because of Jesus, death has been defeated.
#112 - The way God strengthens the weary, lifts our burdens, and pours His peace down over our hearts.
#113 - To be living in a community packed full of believers who don't hesitate to stop and pray for the loss of an 8yr old child in our elementary school.
#114 - To be blessed with another day to love my husband and my children in the best way possible.
Stumble! for WP
The following two tabs change content below. Bio Latest Posts
Rosann Cunningham Author
Rosann is wife to the man of her dreams and stay-at-home mom to two delightful little girls. Her heart's greatest passions are loving her family well, long-distance running, writing, and pretty much anything dark chocolate peanut butter. Rosann loves to encourage women whose husbands are in a season of unemployment, at her other website UnEmployedFaith.com. Her writing inspiration comes from a strong desire to glorify God while sharing the heart of her journey through a life of faith. She is also the Author of two books - UnEmployed Faith: Clothing Yourself in Strength and Perseverance Through his Season of Unemployment, and Refuel Your Inner SuperMom: A Practical Guide to Getting Your Groove Back.
Latest posts by Rosann Cunningham
( see all )
Starting the Year Off with Excitement!!
- January 1, 2014
The Secret to Being a More Productive and Confident Woman
- December 4, 2013
Celebrating Christmas eBook Bundle Full of Traditions, Gift Ideas, Recipes, and More!
- December 2, 2013
Published in
Motherhood ,
Parenting Tagged as
ideal woman ,
Motherhood ,
One Thousand Gifts ,
Reflections From My Heart Next
My Quest To Capture The Money Shot
Previous
Prioritizing What’s Really Important In Life
Search Topics
Select Category
Announcements
Faith
Family Fun
Featured Reviews & Shout Outs
Gardening
Guest Post
Health & Fitness
Homemaking
Marriage
Motherhood
Music
Parenting
Photography
Prayer
Traveling
Uncategorized
Writing
Now Available on Kindle
Is Your Husband Unemployed? 10 Ways To Cope Through The Emotional Impact Of Unemployment In Your Home.
A Great Deal This Week Only!
Shop Deborah & Co.
Home
Blog
SuperMom Shop
Special Requests
Disclosures
Contact Me
Copyright © 2015 ChristianSuperMom.com. All rights reserved.
Get
Pro Framework .