Healthy lifestyle made easy | Examiner.com
Skip to main content
Report this ad
In Life:
Home & Living Pets Style & Fashion Family & Parenting Health & Fitness
Facebook Twitter Google Plus Search
Life
Health & Fitness
Holistic Health
See also:
healthy living
weight loss
Healthy lifestyle made easy
Use your
key for the next article Next:
Business travel hacks: Is it possible to make your next business trip fun?
April 30, 2012
11:01 PM MST
Facebook
Twitter
Pinterest
Linkedin
Google Plus
Comment
Karo Caran
We all know that living a healthy lifestyle is beneficial to our bodies and minds. However, when work and other obligations keep us away from the gym, yoga classes and the swimming pool, living a healthy lifestyle may seem an unachievable objective. Below are some easy solutions you can incorporate into your daily routine.
Take frequent breaks at work. It does not mean that you should stop working and watch a movie but leave your cubicle for a few minutes, look out the window, get some water and come back to your desk. Your body will thank you for the water, your muscles for the short walk, and your brain for the break.
If you need coffee, drink espresso or black
Americano . Forget about the flavored syrups, since they add unnecessary sugar to your diet. Do not add either cow's milk or soy milk. They both are processed and hard to digest, which means that the energy you could be spending on a task has to be spent on digestion. The slow digestion and sugar spikes caused by the syrups will make you feel tired.
Drink water and
coconut water , not sodas or fruit drinks. Water helps to eliminate toxins while coconut water replenishes the minerals in your body.
If you feel you need a snack, opt for a healthy one. Have a handful of nuts (ideally soaked ones for easier digestion). Fresh fruits and veggies are fantastic choices as well. If you feel you need more than that, dip them in almond butter. Try sliced apple, celery or orange and your taste buds will rejoice. If that is not satisfying, have an almond milk smoothie with fruits or super foods like cacao,
chia seeds ,
acai berry
, etc.
Choosing a healthier lifestyle is not only good for your body but also for your mind. You will feel happier and more empowered knowing that you have a great impact on how you look and feel.
Suggested
Links
healthy banana bread
vegan and gluten free delicious
Report this content
Share
this article
Facebook
Twitter
Pinterest
Linkedin
Google Plus
Comment
Subscribe
to author
Comments
Karo Caran Palo Alto Life Coach Examiner Karo is a nontraditional, holistic life coach who focusses not only on the
path of personal growth, but also on nutrition, and a healthy and joyful
life style, including the influences of the physical surroundings and
sociocultural trends that shape the way we experience the world. Karo has
a Ph.D. in education with expertise in motivation and conducted workshops
on topics ranging from arts to breaking taboos for audiences worldwide.
Learn more at
LifeinJoy .
Twitter
Contact me
Featured
Video
Related
stories
Mysterious raised bumps on elbows rash outbreak is causing alarm
Ten easy cures for diarrhea
Lomi Lomi massage: A sacred and exotic massage
Bible belt continues to be beaten down by HIV/AIDS
How to lose belly fat in 1 week day 5 amazing abs
Life
highlights
The American Academy of Pediatrics urges raising legal smoking age to 21 The effect of nicotine on developing brains is one of the main reasons the AAP is recommending raising the legal age to purchase tobacco. Both cigarettes and e-cigarettes have neurotoxic effects...
Camera
Be a dinner hero: This delicious taco salad can be whipped up in a matter of minutes There is no one recipe for taco salad. Ground beef, ground turkey, or chicken are all good protein options. Most taco salads include some kind of lettuce or greens. Chances are tomatoes will also...
Next
Article
Business travel hacks: Is it possible to make your next business trip fun?
Report this ad
POPULAR
in HEALTH & FITNESS
Study finds 2% of hot dogs have human DNA, 10% of veggie dogs contain meat
Dr. Oz's two week rapid weight loss diet: Lose 9 pounds in 14 days
Braless Kate Middleton flaunts weight loss at 'Spectre' premiere: Her diet tips
Halle Berry divorce details: Prenup signed, explosive fights and custody issues
Josh Duggar's Ashley Madison profile photos exposed: Jessa's due date is Nov. 1
Jessa Duggar's baby shower airs on TV as Josh continues sex addiction rehab
Jared Fogle paid $1.1 million to 11 child sex victims: To pay $300,000 more
Dr. Oz reveals inexpensive anti-aging wrinkle creams and weight loss secrets
Omega XL Reviews: Is It Really A Scam? - Discover The Truth!
Ways to lower your blood sugar quickly
TRENDING
on EXAMINER.COM
Final Jeopardy answer costs contestant $6000 as she unwittingly insults liberals
Three pit bulls rescued from Florida storm drain
Heartbroken dog begs his owner not to abandon him at shelter
Stunned passengers watch huge dog roll into first class on airplane
Skeletal dog fights for her life in Phoenix
Undercover sting results in arrest of man who wanted to have sex with animals
D'Arcee Neal: Severely disabled man on plane crawls down aisle
Saudi prince drug smuggling on private plane: Will Saudi prince be beheaded?
Megalodon teeth from mouth of 60-ft shark: Jaw-dropping find on N.C. shore
Florida hunter blows life away of nearly blind, old 'Grandfather Bear'
Report this ad
Report this ad
Facebook
Twitter
Linkedin
Google+
Pinterest
Company Links
About us
OnTopic custom content
The Rowdy
Advertise with us
Sitemap
Examiner.com Entertainment
| AXS Network | © 2006-2015 AXS Digital Group LLC d/b/a
Examiner.com |
Privacy Policy
|
Terms of Use
|
About us
Choose a Topic
Arts & Entertainment Arts & Entertainment Music Movies TV Arts & Exhibits Performing Arts Reality TV Celebrity Pop Culture Animation Young Adult Fiction Books Movie Reviews Comic Books AXS Entertainment AXS Entertainment Music Movies TV Arts & Exhibits Performing Arts NFL NHL MLB NBA Fight Sports Soccer Recreational Sports Reality TV Music Festivals News News Top News International News Strange News Science & Space Politics Elections Environment Extreme Weather Government Crime & Courts Business & Finance Same-Sex Marriage Small Business Stock Market Gun Control Global Warming Personal Finance Democrat Republican Political Buzz Marketing and PR Immigration Life Life Home & Living Pets Style & Fashion Family & Parenting Health & Fitness Education Religion & Spirituality Weight Loss & Dieting Weddings Gardening Home Improvement Relationships Green Living Nutrition Neighborhoods Careers & Workplace Sales & Deals Healthcare Jobs Hobbies Leisure Leisure Food & Drink Travel Spa & Beauty Autos & Motorcycles Bars & Clubs Recipes Drinks Budget Travel DIY Mechanic Auto Reviews Natural Beauty Luxury Travel Makeup Hair & Nails Sports Sports MLB NFL NBA NHL Soccer Fight Sports Recreational Sports College Sports General Sports Fantasy Sports Motorsports Hunting & Fishing Hiking Camping Running Equestrian Water Sports Action Sports Endurance Sports Recreation Tech Tech Gadgets & Tech Video Games Internet Tech Gear Tablets iPhone Google Glass Wearable Tech Xbox One Playstation 4 Photography MMOGs Handheld Games Facebook Anonymous Social Media Consoles Bitcoin Google Twitter Video Log In / Register Write for Us
Search