Espresso And It’s Many Variations Is The Main Type Of Coffee Consumed In Much Of The World | SOS eMarketing
Home
Services
SOS Lead Generation
Team
Testimonials
Clients
Contact
Espresso And It’s Many Variations Is The Main Type Of Coffee Consumed In Much Of The World
Posted on
| January 17, 2010 |
No Comments Yet, Your Thoughts Are Welcome
With the rise of various coffee chains in the 1990s, espresso based drinks rose in popularity in the United States, with the city of  Seattle viewed as one of the origins of modern interest. In addition to the Italian style of coffee, coffee chains typically offer many variations by adding syrups, whipped cream, flavor extracts, soy milk, and various spices to their drinks.
Espresso has become increasingly popular in recent years, in regions where coffee has traditionally been prepared in other ways. In Northern Europe, specialty coffee chains have emerged, selling various sorts of espresso from street corners.
Home espresso machines have increased in popularity with the general rise of interest in espresso. Today, a wide range of home espresso equipment can be found in kitchen and appliance stores, online vendors, and department stores.
The origin of the term “espresso” is the subject of considerable debate .
Although some Anglo-American dictionaries simply refer to “pressed-out”,”espresso,” much like the English word “express,” also conveys the sense of “just for you” and “quickly,” both of which can be related to the method of espresso preparation.
The words express, and espresso each have several meanings in English, French and Italian. The first meaning is to do with the idea of ‘expressing’ or squeezing the flavor from the coffee using the pressure of the steam. The second meaning is to do with speed. Many Latin based countries, such as France, Spain, and Portugal, use the
expresso
form. In the United States and Canada, both
espresso
and
expresso
are used. Italy uses the term
espresso , substituting most
x
letters in Latin root words with
s ; x is not considered part of the standard Italian alphabet.
Variations of  Espresso:
Affogato  Espresso served over gelato. Traditionally vanilla is used, but some coffeehouses or customers use any flavor.
Americano
It. “American” Espresso and hot water, classically using equal parts each, with the water added to the espresso. Americano was created by American G.I.s during World War I   who added hot water to dilute the strong taste of the traditional espresso.
Antoccino  It. “Priceless” a single shot of espresso with the same quantity of steamed milk poured above it, served in an espresso cup.
Black eye : A cup of drip coffee with two shots of espresso in it. (alternately a red-eye or Canadian)
Bombón
Sp. “confection” Espresso served with condensed milk . Served in South East Asia, Canary Islands, Cook Islands and Mainland Spain.
Breve
It. “short” Espresso with half and half.
Carajillo  Sp. slang for “nothing” Espresso with a shot of brandy, breakfast favorite in Spain for construction workers during winter.
Cappuccino  Traditionally, one-third espresso, one-third steamed milk, and one-third micro foam. in the United States, the cappuccino is made as a café latte with much more foam, which is less espresso than the traditional definition would require. Sometimes topped with a light dusting of cocoa powder.
Corretto   It. “corrected” coffee with a shot of liquor, usually grappa or brandy.  ”Corretto” is also the common Italian word for “spiked (with liquor)”.
Con hielo   Sp. “with ice” Espresso with sugar immediately poured over two ice cubes, preferred in Madrid during summer.
Cortado
Sp./Port. “cut” Espresso “cut” with a small amount of warm milk.
Cubano
Sp. “Cuban” Sugar is added to the collection container before brewing for a sweet flavor, different than that if the sugar is added after brewing. Sugar can also be whipped into a small amount of espresso after brewing and then mixed with the rest of the shot. Sometimes called “Cafe tinto”.
Doppio
It. “Double” Double (2 fluid ounces) shot of espresso.
Espresso con Panna
It. “espresso with cream”, Espresso with whipped cream on top.
Flat white  A coffee drink made of one-third espresso and two thirds steamed milk with little or no foam. (Very similar to “latte”, see entry for lattes below)
Guillermo  Originally one or two shots of hot espresso, poured over slices of lime. Can also be served on ice, sometimes with a touch of milk.
Iced coffee  Generally refers to coffee brewed beforehand, chilled, and served over ice. In Australia, iced coffee generally refers to espresso chilled over ice and then mixed with milk and ice cream, with some chains using gelato in place of ice cream. In Italy, the iced coffee ( caffe freddo ) is pre-sweetened and served ice-cold, but never with ice. In the United States, instead, iced coffee is brewed on the spot and poured over ice. In Japan iced coffee is generally served only in summer.
Café au lait
Fr. “coffee with milk”): In Europe prepared with shots of espresso and steamed milk. In the United States usually prepared instead with French press or drip coffee.  An espresso based drink with a volume of steamed milk, served with either a thin layer of foam or none at all, depending on the shop or customer’s preference.
Latte macchiato
It. “stained milk”. Essentially an inverted café latte, with the espresso poured on top of the milk. The latte macchiato is to be differentiated from the caffe macchiato (described below). In Spain, known as “Manchada” Spanish for stained (milk).
Long Black
Similar to an Americano, but with the order reversed – espresso added to hot water.
Lungo
It. “long”, More water (about 1.5x volume) is let through the ground coffee, yielding a weaker taste (40 mL). Also known as an allonge in French.
Caffe Macchiato
It. “stained”A small amount of milk or, sometimes, its foam is spooned onto the espresso. In Italy it further differentiates between caffe macchiato caldo (warm) and caffe macchiato freddo (cold), depending on the temperature of the milk being added; the cold version is gaining in popularity as some people are not able to stand the rather hot temperature of caffe macchiato caldo and therefore have to wait one or two minutes before being able to consume this version of the drink. The caffe macchiato is to be differentiated from the latte macchiato
Mocha
Normally, a latte blended with chocolate. This is not to be confused with the region of Yemen or the coffee associated with that region (which is often seen as 1/2 of the blend “mocha java”).
Red eye
A cup of drip coffee with one shot of espresso in it.
Ristretto
It. “restricted” with less water, yielding a stronger taste (10–20 mL). Café serré or Café court in French.
Solo
It. “single” Single (1 fluid ounce) shot of espresso.
Wiener Melange
German: “Viennese blend” coffee with milk and is similar to a Cappuccino but usually made with milder coffee (e.g. mocha), preferably caramelized.
SOS eMarketing
is an  internet marketing business,
specializing in
food and coffee marketing
utilizing
email marketing ,
integrated eMarketing, internet marketing, and social marketing
tools.
With over 20 years experience in  food and coffee marketing, SOS eMarketing
has a proven track record in increasing our client’s sales and awareness of their brands. Our industry expertise includes Specialty
Coffee Marketing ,
Food & Beverage Marketing.
Contact: David Schwartz
sosemarketing@gmail.com
760.345.5069
Category:
Beverage Marketing ,
Coffee Marketing ,
eMail Marketing ,
eMarketing ,
food beverage marketing Tags:
Coffee Marketing
>
e marketing
>
eMail Marketing
>
eMarketing
>
Food Marketing
>
Integrated eMarketing
>
Social Marketing
Comments
Leave a Reply
Name (required)
Email Address(required)
Website
Comments
SOS eNewsletter - Type in your email address
Admin
Log in
Wordpress
XHTML
food marketing, beverage marketing, coffee marketing, food & beverage marketing, marketing advisor, internet marketing consultant, sell food online, how do I market a food product, luxury marketing, sos emarketing, sos marketing