Tale of the keyboard and the Spear | What Color is your Spear: Story of a Human Resources (HR) Professional Transitioning to Information Technology (IT)
Tale of the keyboard and the Spear
What Color is your Spear: Story of a Human Resources (HR) Professional Transitioning to Information Technology (IT)
Skip to content
Home About
Chapter 4 – The Hidden Journal Entry of Scott Anders
Posted on
January 17, 2011
by
Tom
Editors Notes: Victor Walker – New York Telegraph
Date: 01/15/2011
This morning, I was organizing the materials sent by Dean Walker and I accidentally dropped the bound copy “Ethnography of the Seichet Peoples”. I reached down to pick up the ethnography and noticed a piece of paper peaking out of the back cover through what looked like a raised seem. I hadn’t noticed the raised seam prior,  so I reached for my scissors and cut open the seam. I pulled the cut open flap that and found a folded piece of paper hidden inside. It appears that the Ethnography has a false lining to the back cover!. The papers I discovered were folded and  appear to be lined journal pages, numbered #127 and #128. These pages appear to have been ripped out of a bound notebook and contained the words hand-written phrase “You Lied Dean Miller!”  in red dye or blood .
This story is getting more and more interesting…maybe I can include this picture in the article. If it gets more interesting perhaps I can sell the story to the folks at TIME magazine and get out of this rat hole newspaper.
Note: I am also attaching three artifacts:
1) Picture of the journal with the hidden compartment
2) Picture of the “You Lied Dean Miler!” notes written on the back page of one of the hidden journal pages. The words appear to be written in red dye or blood. \
3) Word for Word Transcription of the hand written pages found inside the Ethnography
1)Picture of the hidden compartment
2) Picture of “You Lied Dean Miller!” Annotation
3) Transcript of journal entry found the Ethnography
May 23, 2008, Professional Journal of Professor Scott Anders: Entry #73
Today was a big day for me,  I submitted my leave of Absence Request to conduct a 2 year sabbatical in order to conduct a field ethnography into the culture, rituals and living conditions of the “Seichet” people. I am ready for a change from the grind of Academia, I desperately need the challenge and I think I deserve the opportunity. I sold my soul to this University first as a graduate student, lecturer then associate professor and now my most recent nomination to “tenure track” professor…everyone knows tenure track is a bullshit way of stringing you along to stay at the University, it is essentially academia’s version of the golden handcuffs. According to some estimates I will need to stay another 8 years to get there if I am lucky.
I need to step outside my comfort zone of the University. I am too comfortable teaching “Anthropology 101” to sleep deprived undergraduates, who are pre-occupied playing on their iPhones. I started to dread showing up at the University every day, knowing that I had to pretend that I was still interested in being a tenured professor of Anthropology at the esteem UWG, College of Natural Science. This was the story until I had a chance encounter with Tom Homebren at the Los Angeles Soup Kitchen during Thanksgiving 3 years ago. Tom Homebren worked in the business sector but volunteered at the soup kitchen during the weekends to provide job skills training to the homeless, his specialty was introducing social skills to the unemployable. While I was dolling out a spoonful of reconstituted mashed potatoes to a homeless man, I noticed Tom trying to communicate to a small group of homeless men in the corner of the soup kitchen. They seemed to be getting agitated with Tom, so I walked over to see if I could provide some assistance. The men didn’t behave like normal men, they wouldn’t talk much, wouldn’t make eye contact and refused to play Tom’s “Inclusion and empathy” training game. All they would do is tap on an odd looking tablet vigorously and hand Tom a handful of animal hide with what looked like exotic characters and symbols  and then pointed at the food.  When Tom refused to take the engraved animal hides, they starting speaking in an odd hybrid of English and some exotic language… I could not understand. As an Anthropologist I was of course fascinated by this exchange. It was obvious to me that these men were not part of our mainstream culture and my guess is that they were from a backwards and secluded native tribe that has failed to advance. How these people have yet to be discovered in this day and age was beyond me, but there they were are hungry in the  Los Angeles Soup Kitchen. Tom and I continued to work with the men for the next two weekends and suddenly as quick as they appeared at the soup kitchen..they disappeared. Based on the field notes and interviews I conducted with the oldest member of the group. I discovered that they were excommunicated members of a reclusive tribe that had very little contact with the outside world. This contact with the Seichet was the start of my obsession to conduct field work with this little known peoples called the “Seichet”. Little did I know at the time, there were tribes of the Seichet peoples in different parts of the world. Apparently there are hidden tribes throughout the world, but some geographies have higher cluster’s of them.
The more I read through my  field notes that I had taken at the soup kitchen, the more I realized that there was more out there then teaching classes at UWG. I wanted to get my hands dirty and live with the “Seichet” people and learn their culture.  My hope was to find something more meaningful in my life that pointless research for the sake of research.  I have studied the Seichet for the past 5 years now and I want to apply my research and get my hands dirty. My best bet is to publish my ethnography and then publish a book on understanding the Seichet people so that when then enter our society as workers, their odd behaviors can be put into context. I think I can break out of the University system if I can get a book published on the topic. I would like to get the book be a basic text for social workers, Human Resources Departments and Law Enforcement.  Of course I need to get university approval before I can go on a sabbatical and still get paid. So I need to have a little chit chat with Dean Miller to get approval, he is an old fool.
——————————————————————Journal of Professor Scott Anders: Entry #73
Date: May 26 th , 2008
Today I met with Dean Miller and Gave me Approval for a leave of absence. I did my best to transcribe our conversation below to protect myself on my return from the sabbatical to ensure to kept to his word. A lot can happen in two years.
“So Tom…..” Said Dean Miller, “you want to do what again? Live in a stone age tribe and study their stone age customs…I don’t think this is the right fit for you Tom”. First of all you are too social to live in a recluse society and second I don’t think you are ready. I think you deserve the opportunity because the hard work you have put into this University, but fuck dam Tom you are putting me in a really bad position here! So you really want to leave your place at this great institution? There are new professors who would sell their children to the circus to have a stable professorship like yours….Tom within maybe 11 years you could have tenure at the University and then you can go do whatever research you want and “go find yourself”. You do understand  that when you go on this sabbatical you will be losing the sonority you earned over the past 10 years and you will have to restart your tenure track. Even worse I cannot guarantee that you will be able to continue your current research project when you get back….two year sabbatical to research in the wild is unheard of for a non-tenured professor”
<I thought to myself: I need a change and try something new, I can’t stay here for the next 10 years like the rest of these lifers…Look at Professor Miller, I don’t think he really believes what he says. I know he is miserable. He just wants to drag me into his little hell because misery loves company>
I responded, “Well Dean Miller, Yes I think it is what I want to do, I am young and need to broaden my career experience, I can’t just stay as a professor at this university in hopes that I will be promoted to Head of Middle to Late Archaic Period Studies. To be honest I have been working really hard, long hours, taking on extra lecture classes, extra research topics and difficult studies, all hoping my efforts would result in advancing my career at this university…I know you have personally talked to the Dean of Sciences and even the President of the University trying to get me promoted to assistant dean of Middle to Late Archaic Period studies but I need to feel my career and my life is going somewhere.
“Well Tom….give me one more chance to talk with Chancellor Gilpon about the promoting you or even a pay raise, if I got this done would you stay in hopes of future promotion.”
I sank into my chair and say “sure….”, not really meaning it but at least it would feel good if the Dean gave me a pay raise or a meaningless promotion
——————————————————————Professional Journal of Professor Scott Anders: Entry #74
Date: May 27 th , 2008
….The next day a later a sullen looking assistant dean Miller says, “ I wish you luck Tom in your Sabbatical to do an ethnography of those backwards Seichet people ..your leave of absence has been approved. My only advice to you is don’t go native on me and forget who you are. .I have seen a lot of professors go out into the bush and never return the same. Don’t get any fantasies about going Kevin Costner or joining the blue man group and jump around in trees…that shit only happens in the movies. Good Luck Tom, I am sad you are leaving and I wish you luck. I hope you find what’s missing in your life”.
“Don’t worry Dean Miller, the one thing I know about myself is that I like the civilized world and would never be like one of those Seichet….look at me I love being a professor. I have an scruffy academic beard, I wear round wire-frame glasses and I even have patches on the elbow of my tweed coast…. It’s in my blood! I really need some field experience
< thinking to myself I need to get out of this lecture circuit and the lazy undergrads>
“…Plus Professor Miller,  the field research will  it will help me complete my research and collaborate with the two other professors who are also researching the Seichet. Dr. Curtis could be aided by my insights into their social hierarchy and dispersed leadership and Dr. Jonte would benefit would her work integrating the Seichet into our mainstream culture”
“Just do me a favor Tom”, Said Dean Miller, “Write me some letters from the field, sometimes its good to keep yourself grounded…here is a bound journal, use this to record your personal thoughts and impressions from a non-academic perspective. Send me your journal on an occasional basis with your letters….just to make sure you stay grounded”…
< the Dean then paused for a second and I sat there awkward and feeling a sense of I don’t give a fuck anymore about being polite>
“Just Spit it out Dean Miller….what is on your mind”
< Dean Miller actually looked a little taken aback by my interruption of his thoughts…I smirked>
“Tell you what Tom….let’s make a deal…If you do some groundbreaking research and  write a stunning ethnography I will personally ensure that you have a spot here in the Middle to Late Archaic Period Studies department when you get back. Just send me drafts of your ethnography as you work on it and I can give you some edits with my letters”
“Sure Professor Miller, let’s stay in contact through emails, journals and edits”
<Thinking to myself that this is a good back door to my current job, if this gig doesn’t pan out the way I want. Little does the Dean know that returning to this University  is only my backup plan when I am done. I will take my advanced knowledge to another University when I am complete or possibly get rich through my book.
——————————————————————
Editors Notes: Victor Walker – New York Telegraph
Date: 01/16/2011
The discovery of this journal entry does give some insight into the motivation of Scott Anders and his mental state before going on the field study. Note to self: Question Dean Miller about his relationship with Scott Anders after he left to the Seichet tribe. Also question Dean Miller about what happen when he returned to the University after his return.  The inscription of “You Lied Dean Miller” does raise some serious questions about the health of their professional relationship.
Note  to self: Contact Dean Miller and Tom Homebren and schedule some interviews.  Dean Miller is hiding something and Tom Hombren definitely has some insights into Scott Anders whereabouts  and behaviors over the past couple years.  Their paths are intertwined.
Note to Self: Locate the personal journal of Scott Anders, this holds the key to the story.
Personal Goal of the day: Imagine your own success! I CAN win a Pulitzer! This story can make my career.
Posted in
Uncategorized
|
Leave a comment
Chapter 3- Printout of “Tom’s Job Blog” Found in Scott Ander’s Desk
Posted on
January 10, 2011
by
Tom
Word Press Blog Entry
“Tom’s Job Blog” – posting #34 May 15, 2008
Today started like any other day at Unified Western Granite Inc, it’s 4:15pm and I have stopped all serious work a couple of hours ago. Hence you see your esteemed author is blogging during working hours because I am bored and it helps me look busy. Good thing I am a Human Resources professional, because I know how to get remove my name from the monthly internet usage report.
To all my new blog followers, don’t get the impression that I am a slacker.  I am very good at my job,  get great performance reviews and I am extremely accountable for all my projects and deliverables. Here is the deal,  I am extremely good at what I do,  so I can do my projects extremely well and quickly… but I am at a dead-end in terms of advancement.
As my older blog subscribers already know, I decided last year that would stop trying to get promoted to Manager. I have tried unsuccessfully three times to create a “new” management position,  my boss is not going to retire anytime soon,  and I am “unqualified” to work in other departments because I lack “Industry” experience. I asked myself, why should I try to hustle and sacrifice myself for this job, if I get nothing in return?. … the answer was simple…it is note worth the effort or the cost to my health and relationships.   Hell man… I lost my late 20’s to this company, I will never get that time back!
My new blog followers may be asking yourself , why would Tom, still work at this company? As many my original followers know, I have been looking extensively, but it seems that the economy is starting to slow down and my skill set is a luxury for most companies in a downturn. None-the-less,  I have a boring yet comfortable gig here at UWG, at least I like the people I work with.
Oddly enough, last year I was identified as  “High Potential” employee by my company. “High Potentials” are non-management employees who has been identified as a future leaders of the company. They even assigned yours truly a “Career Coach” to maximize your career growth opportunities. I have my serious suspicions that my “Career Coach” is really there to ensure that I do not leave the company, because I produce high volumes of work without complaining.  I know that even though I am identified as a “High Potential Employee”,  but my options for career advancement in this company were extremely limited at best…
So what should your author do in this situation?Should I Work harder so that you will find advancement in the face of Adversity?  Should I slack off and rest on my previous accomplishments? Or there is my favorite option… keep working at your current levels and start self-promoting your “increased efforts and workloads”. Like I have previously told all my fellow disaffected workers….your job is 80% showmanship and 20% actual performance. I encourage all of my dead-end job comrades to develop their skills of SHOWMANSHIP!
So back to my point,  I commuted into work this morning and dealt with the usual bumper to bumper traffic. Like every other day, I walked into the office this morning feeling an odd haze of helplessness and resentment from the long commute on the 5 Freeway.  I felt a little bit numb from the drive. I had just heard the NPR news cycle three times, learned how to say “hello Mother, how was your day?” in Mandarin, listened to the radio stations play the same 15 songs over and over, and finished off the commute listening to “ Fake Plastic Trees ” by Radio Head….a very appropriate song for my mood.
The bright part of my morning came today as I made my daily stop at Starbucks, right before hitting the purgatory known as the office. Normally, I order a very yuppie quasi-sophisticated wannabe beatnik coffee,  a
Americano
Ristretto
style…essentially black coffee. But the freeway was particularly grisly today, so I checked my manhood at the door,  put on my big girl panties  and ordered  a Grande Mocha with extra chocolate and whip cream…it works better than Paxil.
So I rolled through the security gate and engaged the car in park and then mentally braced myself. As I swiped my badge on the door and heard the “Click” of the electronic door lock disengaging. This stimulus was my cue to transform my disgruntled facial affect into a “self-motivated fresh face”. When the smile was applied and frown disappeared, I transformed myself into Tom Homegren…Human Resources Robot Extraordinaire!.
Dr. Pavlov
would be proud, but his dogs  would just have pity for me.
Despite my grumbling about lack of career advancement, working at United Western Granite could actually be fun and offered me the comforts of a part-time family, especially within Human Resources. Typically I was greeted by Frita the Benefits Manager on the way to be cubicle.
“Good Morning Tom”, said Tina, “Did you have a good weekend…and how is your wife doing?”. I responded, “Had a great weekend thanks, My wife is doing good, she has been busy prepping for her new classroom”.
Typically, on the way to my cubicle I would have several conversations and  generally feel better about working at Unified.  Once I squeezed my tall body frame into the quarter sized cubicle, sat down in my chair and squeezed my legs under my desk… life in the office didn’t seem all that bad…at least for the next 30 minutes.
My typical routine recently usually starts with random conversations with co-workers, checking personal emails, checking sports scores, catching up on news on drudgereport.com, and finally checking  for “job blog” responses. Once I did my morning routine, I went to the coffee machine for  “caffeine and  conversation” with fellow HR team mates and Sales Reps…generally just shooting the shit about nothing. About one hour after I arrived at the office, I was ready to do some serious work.  I know as a reader of this blog you might be thinking, this guy is a slacker….but in reality I produced more work than most people in the company, I was just good at my job. I was also good at making myself look busier than I actually am.  As the day went on today, I completed my project objectives with usual speed and extraordinaire, but then the boredom set in around 2:00.
Sure not every day is like this, I did get some new and exciting projects from the IS Department (Information Systems) this week. Working on IS projects is very interesting, but the people who work in IS are very odd. I do think some of the techies have a high functioning form of
Asperger Syndrome . When I met with the database guys last week, I had a hard time keeping a straight face because his social interactions were so awkward. Working with the savant became entertaining due to their inability to talk to me professionally, as he attacked me about my lack of  database modeling skills. The interaction when like this…
Tom : “George, can you help me understand how the user’s action, “make” the new data record
George : “What do you mean? What’s does “Make” mean…<unintelligible grumbling>
Tom : You know George, when a user completes an action in the system ,it will make a new record in the system
George : If you don’t know how to talk about data, I am going to pretend that I do not understand what you are talking about. How stupid are you.  <mumbles and laughs to himself>
Tom : George, perhaps you can help me speak your language so I can communicate better to you
George:
I don’t have time to waste teaching you something you should already know
Tom : In your language what is the equivalent of “making” data?
George : If you don’t know,  I am not going to tell you. Why don’t you look up “ CRUD ” on Wikipedia..it is written by people like you, who don’t know what they are talking about. You should understand their writing very well. Come back when you are prepared ….<George stands up and walks out of the meeting>
The IS guys, would prefer that I not be involved in their projects. But due to a series of new system failures, the CIO insisted that a Human Resource’s OD Specialist be involved in deployments. That is how your Author, became the Business Process and Change Management  Analyst for their project. In most companies this would be enough to reinvigorate someone’s interest in their job. But the problem is that this company is about 10 years behind in terms of technology, so I am still not learning any transferable skills. We still have a guy who proudly proclaims he is the foremost expert in
COBAL  at UWG.  Keep in mind that this is technology from the early 1980’s, but then again he also has a Captain Picard coffee cup.
Well anyways…. to all my followers of this blog, I have digressed enough…  I need to get back to my “job”.  This place is backwards and anything I produce is always fantastic….even if they don’t find the relevance in what I am doing. Like always, I  repeat my mantra to my followers…your job is 80%
P.T. Barnum
and 20% Content…I better get my stage face on.
Till tomorrow my fellow disgruntled workers.
Tom
——————————————————————————————
WordPress.com- “ Tom’s Job Blog”  Comments:
ITGUY98568 : You Freak, what the matter with you HR Types…you always feel the need to share your feelings.
SocialAnthroDude123 : Tom great post as always, I hope you get that new job you mentioned last week. . Don’t let the IT weirdo’s get you down, they are just misunderstood and don’t know how to express themselves. By the way, did you get a chance to review my field work journal?
COBOLMAN1984 : What the hell with the COBOL reference? Are you talking about me douchebag?
THomegren : Hey Scott, yes just reviewed your field journal last night and emailed you my comments. Looks good so far. My advice is to forget the ethnography, your personal impressions is better for a book. Good luck with your plans.
ITGUY98568 : You guys are losers, you wouldn’t last a second creating a WebService WISDL for an SAP / ERP integration…grow some balls
——————————————————————————————-
Editor’s Notes 12/22/2010:
After reviewing “Tom’s Job Blog and the accompanying comments I think I need to find Tom’s other’s posts on WordPress. I hope to uncover more information about Scott in these postings. I would also like to uncover more information about Tom’s relationship was with Professor Scott Anders. If I can get ahold of Tom, perhaps he has information on Scott’s story and perhaps his whereabouts. I need to locate this Field Journal referenced in Scott’s Comments and perhaps ping some of the local publishing houses, to see if he has any book deals or submissions.
Consider including Tom’s interaction with Professor Scott Ander’s in your story, it could be an interesting twist.
This Tom fellow has an interesting story and has some clever writting . Note to self… perhaps I can write an article about dead-end jobs in the recession. I love stealing content from WordPress.com
Posted in
Uncategorized
|
Leave a comment
Chapter 2 – Ethnography of the the Seichet Peoples
Posted on
December 16, 2010
by
Tom
Ethnography of the “YH-CET”
Summary of the “YH-CHET” Peoples
Name of the “YH-CHET” people :  “Seichet”
Basis of Society : Workmanship and Trade
Social Characteristics :  Solitude
Currency : Hsac
Language : “Ese-ychet”
Focus of Ethnography : Seihcet People
Origins of the “Seihcet” Nickname:
YH-CHET  often goes by the nickname of the “Seihcet”. This nickname, “Seihcet”, is often used as a derogatory name by different tribes, although YH-Chet has adopted the term themselves with a little bit of pride of being different. Many Seichet use the nickname as a point of differentiation from the other types of tribes. For the purposes of this Ethnography, the anthropological team will use this abbreviation of “Seihcet” to describe YH-Cet peoples
Geographic Locations:
Different sects of this tribe can be found stretching South/Central parts of the Asia continent through Bearing Straights through North America. Although there are concentrations of this tribe found on all continents including primitive sects in islands off Europe. The Seihcet from North America seem to think they are better than the other regional tribes and will often make their cousins perform undesirable work for sub-standard bartering terms including the green cousins to the west and their swarthy cousins to the east. The tides of knowledge appear to be shifting with the eastern brethren slowly taking over power through increased control of the knowledge base.
Work Culture / Commerce and Trade
Commerce and Trade
The Seihcet learn a secret language at a young age. Some learn this language through specialized education and other learn it on their own through trial and error. This special language is required to produce edoc. This secret language is apparently very difficult to learn, so children who start learning the basics at a young age have an advantage over their peers in skill and productivity. There are over 10 dialects of this secret language, each dialectic is known for producing a specialized type of Edoc.
Edoc is the specialized product that can only be produced by the Seihcet. It is very hard for an outside observer to grasp or comprehend what is edoc, except that edoc is used as a component in the production of other goods. Many tribes are extremely dependent on their products and services and are the only tribe that can produce their goods and services. As a result of this exclusivity of goods, the Seihcet have developed a certain sense of superiority over other tribes.
This sense of superiority appears to create unfair bartering practices by the Seichet who appear to hustle the other tribes. My observations noted that on several occasions, the other villages received Edoc that was different then they ordered or simply defective. The Seichet” will often insist that they explained the terms carefully and don’t understand why the other villagers don’t appreciate their hard work and god given talent in the craft.
The bartering village will often force themselves to use a poorly made edoc at great emotional pain to the tribe because they feel they have no other option. To make matter worse, the “Seihcet” will often fail to show the other villagers how to use the goods, resulting in the inability to produce their goods for trade. Many “outsiders” consider the “Seihcet” the source of all pain in the land.
Social Norms
Preference for Solitude
Seihcet are, by nature, non-communal creatures who prefer their own company over that of others. As a result, many of Seihcet have failed to develop advanced communication and social skills. According to some of the other tribes, they even lack some civilized manners and find humor in low brow jokes and literature and are fascinated in advanced innovations.
Although members of this tribe prefer to live/work alone, the “YH-CET” are often forced by necessity to live/work in communities either by tribal laws or by pressure of the elders. Although due to their nature many will leave the tribe community for at least one day of the lunar week to live and work alone. When forced to live and work in the village, strict control of social norms is practiced as a compensation method to deal with the social anxieties. These social norms dictate that personal interaction is highly discouraged when working.
When questioned the tribesman they explain that they are much more productive in their duties when they are not disturbed by the odd and annoying behaviors of their cave neighbors and fellow tribe mates. When forced to work in the village, personal interaction is discouraged according to the “Seihcet” cultural norms. The “Seihcet” will work and live without interaction. Even if two “Seihcet” see each other in the village, typically they will not greet each other with pleasantries; interaction is usually based on specific needs of commerce or a problem to discuss. As an active member of the community and according to countless field notes I have included below a couple examples of what this might look like to an outside observer.
Forced Tribal Gatherings
At least once a month and in some tribes once a week, members of the Seihcet are forced to congregate at the directive of a village elder or a member of high technical esteem who has the influence to summon a group. These meetings are generally discouraged as many of the Seihcet have difficulty expressing their thoughts properly, unless they are directed by an elder or hero. These tribal gatherings go by different names and for different purposes depending on the goal and or tribe, although the following elements always exist. First, these gatherings are typically conducted in a cave with no natural light and all attendees are gathered in a, elliptical or rectangular arrangement and sit on uncomfortable seating implements. Second, the meetings usually start with the tribe members making a plan for division of labor for the production of their goods based on another tribe’s specialized request called “stnemeriuqer”. Although these meetings usually start out positive, they usually get quite ugly as tribe members who are not used to direct conflict or even social interaction will resort to harsh passive aggressive attacks against their fellow tribe mates in an effort to gain the more plumb jobs. This type of competitor derogation is very typical even when the negative comments are untrue or based on a heavy distortion of the truth. As a result of these conflicts, tribesmen will often form unofficial and secret alliances for the purpose of self-protection and self-promotion. These secret alliances are often inadvertently exposed during the meetings as the Seihcet are not good at subtlety. Open warfare will erupt and will manifest itself with trade embargos between tribe mates and even sabotage, even though this behavior will hurt the tribe as a whole. More often than not it will result false rumors being spread about the quality of work or their commitment to the tribe.
Social Interactions
There are rare occasions where the “YH-CET” will socially interact and discuss matters outside of their work, although these meetings are brief and often socially awkward. Although it appears that they would like some social interaction, it does appear to be strained and a little uncomfortable. I have recorded a couple of these rare moments and they were typically broken up because someone in the tribe acted or spoke inappropriately to another tribesman, resulting in an argument or embarrassment. I noted personally that these rare and awkward meetings typically revolved around discussing, mating practices, comparing their work tools and recreational tools, discussing characters from folklore and stories of Trade Heroes. Too often the male Seihcet will take a conversation too far and will end up offending female members of their tribe or another tribe without realizing their actions.
Social Standing: Of Alpha Males, Silverbacks, and Gimps
Alpha males
Preface to this section: My continued observations have shown that there are different types of males in Seihcet people. Before I go forth describe them I want to point out that my nature these peoples are generally not of robust physical stature. Many can be described as being “slight” or not of the sporting variety. Most lack muscle tone and are either gangly thin or overweight, both the result of not conducting in physical activity. If you or I were to see these tribesmen in our town we might pass them by and feel slightly superior to them in the physique department, although in the land of the Seihcet physical prowess does not go very far in projecting your strength. Hence from an outside observer’s perspective, it can sometimes seem a little silly to watch the males compete and swagger in their ritualistic competitions of dominance for social control of the tribe. I will attempt to describe my interactions with four types of Social Players, all four attempt to display some sort of swagger in order to make their skills and thus dominance in the tribe appear more powerful than they actually are.
For the Seihcet having exclusive and superior expertise in a novel technology is considered to be the “ultimate distinction of prestige” for all Seihcet. By possessing superior skills and knowledge than their fellow tribe mates, they possess the ability to dominate them.
The ability to dominate your tribe mates has the following benefits;
a) Benefit of having other tribes mates beg for your assistance and your ability to say “no” thus boosting your prestige (also see ability to say “if you can’t explain it properly, I won’t give you an answer”)
b) Ability to control plumb projects and influence decisions during tribal circle meetings
c) Ability to chastise tribe mates of lower prestige with impunity
c) Adornment of slaves, apprentices, indentured servants
D) Ability to mistreat members of your own tribe. Otherwise they risk you leaving to another tribe with both your skills and the tribal knowledge.
The motivation of these rewards, coupled with the Seihcet lack of social skills, create an unproductive and often caustic social/working atmosphere. Not every tribesman can be in the top circle of alpha males, so it is common to see Seihcet intentionally conducting social espionage against their fellow tribe mates. For example, it is extremely common for all members of the tribe to work extremely long hours to get a “one up” on their other tribe mates. Although, the first person to leave to their cave for the night will instantly be the target of ridicule in the group.  In this scenario, the person early will be branded as “dettimocnu”, a derogatory designation that is used on a peer pressure way and has a way of sticking to the offender.  After the “Detttimocnu” leaves, everyone will make jokes about him and this name calling will continue for days if not weeks..  In social psychology, this practice is called competitor degradation, where by marginalizing someone else’s prestige you are artificially boosting your own. This same scenario occurs when tribesmen inspect each other’s work for defects. If a defect is found (as they always do), the person who discovers the defect with start spreading rumors about the offender’s skill.
If you think this sounds like high school girl infighting, that is my impression as well. Your author has studied all types of environments including the American High School culture and sees many parallels. Just like the high school where the caddy girls will engage in competitor degradation in order to give themselves a social boost, so do the Seihcet. As the Seihcet resort to informal self-protection groups, so does the American High School “Click”. For the Seihcet, like minded Seihcet will band together, despite their hatred for social interaction, in order to counter the effects of the other alpha males. These social groups will often try to work on the same project, defend each other and preemptively attack other alpha males. For those Seihcet unfortunate not to belong to one of these protective social groups, life can be both unrewarding and emotionally draining. Lower productivity is usually the result of this infighting. If this social warfare gets out of control the village elders or the witch doctor will intervene (see crime and punishment)
Silverbacks
Silverbacks are the older alpha males who have already fought for their dominance in the tribe and have established themselves as experts of their field (which may or may not be true). Silverback gain their power to influence and intimidate others through the a high level of prestige amongst the village elders / tribe mates and their extensive network of allies and informants. If a Silverback has both prestige and a solid alliance, then no one will challenge their position, decision.
According to my survey, it appears that Silverbacks are both official leaders (Tribal Elders) and unofficial leaders in the village. It should be noted that the Silverbacks without official powers or designations are more dangerous and should be approached with caution.  They are considered to be more ruthless and vindictive. Based on your author’s observations and field interviews, it is my conclusion that this aggression is the result of bitterness resulting from feelings of personal failure because they have been “passed up” on promotion to village elder. Use caution if one of the Silverbacks approaches you in the village, they are likely to shake you down for information, edoc or your time.
Silverbacks will often associate in gangs of like minded alpha males, gimps, contractors and elders. The male Silverback is usually interested in promoting their self interests as well as those of their cronies. The Silverback attempts to build up the skills of the weak members of his gang and place alpha males in strategically powerful positions in the tribe. When two Silverbacks begin to conflict with each other, for a resource or project, they will inadvertently drag their entire gang into the fray. The more dominate Silverback will usually win; as a result, the lower level members of the losing silverback will become marginalized in tribe and will usually fail to ever advance. The winning retinue will often enjoy the plunders of their domination and will result in more power, resources and promotion.
GIMPS
Gimps are the unfortunates of the tribes; gimps typically have sufficient to above average skills and thus do not have enough skills to advance themselves through their own prestige alone.  Below are the following reasons that a Tribesman will become a GIMP
1)      Their lack of skill could be the result of being marginalized due to a silverback war
2)      Lack of education in advanced skills
3)      Lack of growth opportunity because a alpha or silverback is sitting on plumb jobs and assignment for promotion,
4)       young tribesmen who are still “paying their dues” to the tribe
What happens if they fail to break out of the lower tier “GIMP” status? They become one of the  “Unfortunates”.  These Tribesmen who have superior skills but have been passed over and unrecognized for various reasons. They are often mentioned as “Good Workers” and worked to death because their work performance is reliable.  The unfortunates will always work hard and sacrifice themselves because they have an illusion that hard work alone will get them promoted.
This unfortunates is often known to leave the tribe in middle of the night to become part of the lowly world of the “rotcartnoc” who walk the roads soliciting themselves to any tribe who will provide them a fresh start in exchange for self-sacrificing themselves for the sake of a project. The risk of rejection from the new tribe is high, but often displaced gimps become successful when they leave their current political quagmire.
Resolution for the GIMPS?
Gimps are your pawns of the tribe; their resources are exploited with long hours of work. They receive little to no recognition for their efforts and are usually the first ones to be blamed when something goes wrong. Recognition for high productivity or technological advances is usually given to their superiors or alpha male in the group. Social norms prevent a gimp from complaining too loud or challenging an elder, alpha or Silverback about injustices. Revenge is commonplace against complainers, usually in the form of further marginalization, grunt work and, exclusion from tribal circles. Sometimes a Gimp who doesn’t know his place in the tribe will trek through to the witch doctor’s cave to ritualistically complain about their treatment. The following is my notes of a witch doctor’s ritual for handling complaints.
1)      The Witch doctor will find your secret tablet and review your annual purification report and scour for complaints about your work.
2)      If your tablet is free from negative marks, then the witch doctor will review the tablet of the offenders and attempt to find the coded markings for negative behavior against the tribe.
3)       If the witch doctor thinks you are worthy and the other party is unworthy an inquisition will be initiated to investigate poor behavior in the tribe.
4)      If the witch doctor interrogates you, the process is usually morally derogating and involves the doctor reviewing all your bad deeds, evaluates the quality of your edoc, determines if you have the right skills to be in the tribe and pries into your secret fears in order to determine if you caused Ill behavior in the tribe.
5)       If the witch doctor determines that you have offended the tribe but no broken the unbreakable laws then you are required to enter the dreaded purification ritual. (See crime and punishment).
6)      If you have broken an unbreakable law, then banishment from the tribe is immediate and cast out without anything but the clothes on your back, survival is questionable for the excommunicated as other villages will not accept social pariahs into their ranks.
If a gimp goes through the Witch Doctor Complaint Ritual to gain advancement and survives, they are almost always treated as a traitor back at the tribe. After speaking with the village elders, they indicated that there are very few gimps that yielded positive results from complaining to the witch doctor. The elder pointed out one of the former gimps who gained resolution from complaining. He also indicated in the same breath that the former is now a Silverback now, but no one respects him and his gang is very small and made up of mostly Gimps.
Living and working Condition
Pecking Order of working/living spaces
When I moved into the tribe, one of the first things I had to deal with, besides social awkwardness, was my living conditions in the tribe. Like I mentioned before many of the Seihcet have two residences where they work and live and where they sleep. Sometimes a Seichet will work one day a week from where they sleep although many tribes try to restrict this activity.
Where the tribesman works and lives in the tribe is determined by their status, duration in the tribe, technical prestige….but never their actual productivity or contribution to the tribe. There are many different levels of living /working conditions in a tribe. Typically a tribesman’s workplace is also their home; as such they will nest and settle with personal effects, sundries and food staples into their workplace. This arrangement may seem awkward to the outside and casual observer, but the Seihcet work extremely long days so they spend more of their waking hours in their workspace. The location where they sleep is rarely seen by a Seichet, it is simply a place where they can hide their families, sleep, procreate and ponder work on days off. As with all aspects of tribal culture the desirability of your workspace is a mysterious combination of your seniority, tribal ranking, and experience and of course technical prestige. When you join a tribe you are assigned a workspace. By default tribal elders always get a hard walled cave due to the prestige of the rank and the ability to yell at lower ranking tribe mates in peace. By default young Seihcet are given soft walled caves and from there, there is a lot of fodder for controversy. There is always conflict between low ranking elders, alpha males over who is allowed to occupy the hard wall caves and the status / recognition /luxury that come with it. This workspace can give an alpha male or young savant the credibility that they need to dominate others through perceived prestige. In addition, the hard walled cave gives these solitary people their personal space thereby reducing interaction with tribe mates to a minimum. How hard walled caves are distributed to this middle group is a mystery. Some people say that the village elders secretly meet in groups to decide assignment. Others say that each elder is allocated a set number of caves to distribute at their will.
Analysis of Personal Artifact Observations
I had the opportunity to conduct an inventory of 30 different workspaces in order to determine what types of personal artifacts that I would find in their workspace. As when conducting a ethnography of the secluded WAHLA WAHLA people of Borneo, the contents of their workspace and living spaces always yields a wealth of information in regards to their motivations, customs, culture, economy and nutritional practices. The common artifacts that I found in almost all caves of the Seichet people included the following items: high sugar and low nutritional food stocks, Energy Boosting elixirs procured from medicinal peddlers, devices that serve no purpose but serve as edifice of the technical prowess, number rubrics, collections of magical texts written in exotic languages that can only be understood by the Seihcet and serve as reference to perform their work of creating edoc. Some other items that I found include debris, recreational texts, velum with images of female tribeswomen wearing very little garments. One of the most curious objects I uncovered was a rectangular object that is shiny on one side and colored on the other which has a white looking string coming from the top. The white string forks into two pieces (like a wish bone) and either of the two sides have bulbs at their tips. The tribesmen actually shove the uncomfortable bulbs into their ear canal, which emit a strange frequency. When the tribesmen hear the vibration, it is not uncommon to see their head bob subtly in a front to back motion. It is my personal observation that this device silences the outside noise of their village and promotes a minor form of epilepsy so that they can more easily slip into their hypnotic working state of consciousness.
Working Conditions: Body Contortion and Working
My field notes have multiple entries of a bizarre ritual the “YH-CET” engage in while working, it is called “NWOD DSEAH”, the closest English translation I could find is “heads down”. This working ritual involves contorting their bodies in an almost YOGA like position.  When a Seihcet posture transforms into the “NWOD DSEAH” contortion, it is well a universally know body language meaning “DO NOT DISTURB!”. The Seihcet cannot perform their work of creating edoc without placing themselves in this contortion.  Their trade reportedly requires his complete and total concentration. As they fall deeper and deeper into their meditative state, they faster they work. If you were to watch a Seihcet work, you would see their body become more and more rigid as they move their hands faster and faster.  As their stare at the colored glass plates for hours their eyes become red and swollen….they rarely blink as it would disrupt their productivity.  This body contortion causes severe pain over their necks and shoulders and wrists. They can apparently maintain this painful stress position for hours without feeling the pain. The deeper they are locked in their hypnotic state the more rapid their fingers and hands move feverishly over their primitive tool taping tools. Your anthropologist likened this movement to an exorcism or someone undergoing a “Laying of the Hands” by Benny Him.
This hypnosis will only be broken when the tribesman becomes malnourished, thirsty or finds the need to procreate. Curiously, the basic human need of sleep is the only thing that will NOT stop the “YH-CET” from leaving their trans. If a village elder wants to ensure productivity, they will place food by their workstation to minimize downtown.
If a tribe mate sees another tribe mate in a “heads down” position, this is a body language indicating to his fellow tribe mates not to disturb, as his complete and total concentration is required for this activity. If a tribe mates verbally communicates with someone in the “NWOD DSEAH” position and breaks their hypnosis without an invitation or prior warning the results are very unpredictable. The offending tribesman will be treated very coldly for such an offense and will be verbally abused for the insult. Direct challenges will result if their “NWOD DSEAH” is broken without an appointment or if they didn’t attempt to leave a hand written note by their work station first. Revenge usually includes refusal to support the offender during tribal council. These threats are usually awkwardly made and even more awkwardly carried out.
Crime and Punishment:
As part of my understanding of the Seichet people, I found that there was a real need to understand their cultures version of Crime and Punishment. To the reader of this ethnography it is important that you step outside the realm of your own views of social order, authority figures and crime in order to fully appreciate the Seihcet culture surrounding crime and punishment.
As a background understanding it is first important to understand the Seihcet as a whole are not good at inter-personal behavior due to their preference for social isolation and introverted nature. Some Psychologist would suggest that this behavior in adult Seihcet is a result of their a childhood and adolescence period where these anti-social behaviors were tolerated by their parents and teachers at multi-tribal schools who are taught that every student has their own learning style, extreme-introversion is o.k. and self-isolation is a personal choice and not an indication of anti-social behavior. This same Psychologist would suggest that that the Seihcet culture is derived from a lifetime of reinforced anti-social behavior. Although if you were to ask any Seichet in the village they would say that they are o.k. with their introvertism, like the sound of hearing themselves think and do not think that they are socially awkward. Hence I am here as the Social Anthropologist to gain a better understanding of their culture and understand how this culture forms the standards for Crime and Punishment both within the tribe and outside their tribe.
Cultural Norms and Self-Policing
Cultural norms are deeply ingrained into the tribe of the Seihcet and are closely guarded by members of the Seihcet community. Although every member of the tribe is usually responsible for maintaining cultural norms within the community, the alpha males and Silverbacks are typically known for being the enforcers of social norms, the pecking order and the caste system. One of the biggest social norms that are protected is the Seihcet need for silence, seclusion and keeps social interaction to a minimum. If a Seichet is not focused, not feeling well or has a disability call ADHD (which is common in the Seichet tribe) he may become socially promiscuous and attempt to talk with other Seihcet who are either deep in their work trance, in a bad mood or requiring personal seclusion time. This mismatched of unwanted social engagement will result in either harmless social shunning by simply not acknowledging their presence, to subtle degrading remarks made to the offender all the way to outright verbal attacks against the offender. Usually these types of conflicts do not result in outright violence because the Seihcet are passive aggressive it will often result in acts of “backstabbing” at tribal council, degrading the offenders skill / work product to others, vandalizing their workspace, shunning from social group and protection groups, refusing to provide a unique skills to a project. Silverbacks and Alpha males will typically intervene if the social conflict is distracting from productivity, creating conflict between protection circles or interfering with an elder’s or Silverbacks project. They will typically tell both parties to stop the inter-tribal warfare or takes sides and choose one person to shun / punish in tribal circle, project assignment or ejection from a protection group. This type of informal intervention occurs on a regular basis for minor infraction of social norms or even disagreements over workload, exclusivity to novel skills or simple social misunderstandings which occur every time two or more Seichet interact.
There are more serious issues that arise between tribe mates and socially spread the scope of the conflict to other tribe mates, protection circles, alpha males or even low level elders. This worsening conflict has the potential to bring chaos and unproductively to the tribe, resulting in the high level village elders or even the village chief intervening. These types of inter-tribal warfare is often halted by the village elders who use threats of removal or preferred jobs, banishment from the tribe or worst of all being sent to the witch doctor’s cave. All parties will try to keep the Witch Doctors out of the conflict, at all costs. If the tribal elders hide the conflict from the witch doctors, it is as a violation of trust and will often result in an intrusive inquisition by the Witch Doctors. Once this inquisition has begun it cannot stop until resolved by the witch doctors and those who are found to be at fault are usually marked for life as troublemakers by etching of their bad deeds on their stone tablet.
Witchdoctors
Punishment by the Witch Doctors is universally feared at all levels of the tribe. If a Witch Doctor has to intervene, it is usually viewed as a sign of the elder’s weakness as a leader among his peers. Often the witch doctor will punish both the tribesman and the village elder with a variety of punishments. The simplest is etching the offending parties name on a secret tablet that is secretly stored in an Iron Case and hidden in a cave deep within the Witch Doctors lair…only certain members of the Witch Doctor Tribe is allowed to scribe on these tablets. Each villager has one of these secret tablets to mark down wrong doings. Too many marks on the tablet will result in more severe punishments.
Punishments usually start with uncomfortable discussions about their failures with the Witch Doctors. Sometimes punishment will be elevated to being forced to attend a full day spiritual journey with other offenders. These spiritual journeys are lead by a special group of Witch Doctors called the “Re-niart”, who duties are to subject the proud Seihcet peoples to sit in the Witch Doctor’s cave and “Play Act” being both the victims and aggressors until shame or tears set in. After their journey is complete the Witch Doctor and the offender must carefully Scribe their names to provide proof of punishment to the mutually feared bogeymen called the SreywaL (SRAY-WALS)…who have the power to punish the witchdoctors for not being harsh enough or not scribing proof of punishment.
If the wrong doing of the “Seihcet” too heinous or if there are too many marks on the tablet, the offender will be banished from the tribe and into the dark lands of “Tnemyolpnenu”. Banishment will force the Seihcet to wander from village to village begging other Seihcet tribes for the privilege of displaying their skills for the consideration of being admitted into the tribe. If the banished Seihcet is able to provide the value of these skills he can be admitted into the initiation period of the new tribe.
Of Esteem and the Caste System
For the Seihcet culture, initiation into the tribe consists of being placed into a lower class called the “RotCratNoc” before they can be admitted as a full member of the tribe. While under the “RotCratNoc” status they are forced to where a medallion with “RotCratNoc” emblazed in large letters so that the villagers know who they are for the purpose of ridicule, exclusion from social interaction and assignment to the cruelest and hardest jobs. Many RotCratNoc do not survive the often year long initiation period and will either move on to another tribe or disappear in the night without warning. If sufficient suffering has been displayed by the RotCratNoc they can trade in their old medallion for the medallion a fully fledged citizen of the tribe this status is called “EeYoLPme” (Ee-YOLP-ME).
Rights and Tribulations of Citizenship:
Once granted EeYoLPme status you are placed in higher regard, better work and even given many luxuries like a magical rectangle that allows the owner and their family to receive life saving treatments from the medicine man. Although the cruel joke is that this card often gives a false sense of security as the EeYoLPme. The EeYoLPme must pay protection money to an organized crime group called the “OMH” on a bi-lunar calendar basis and each time they receive treatment from the Medicine Man. If the EeYoLPme refuses to pay, then they will be refused treatment. Advanced tribes will help their citizens by paying some of the protection money on their behalf.
Indentured Servitude and the Coming Revolt
Your author has noticed some strange forms of quasi-slavery, indentured servitude and potentially this society’s version of a debtor’s colony or apartheid? Here are my observations. As I previously mentioned the X people live on all five continents although the Seichet People of North America and Continental Europe appear to act as the overlords of the world wide tribes. Again based on my observations this is a result of their access to wealth, advanced technology and the backing of their tribal affiliations with the Ruthless NOIT-AREP-POC’s. The NOIT-AREP-POC’s are affiliations who perform tasks for money. This NOIT-AREP-POC’s can be thought of the trade guilds of Renaissance Europe who were the real controller’s of the local and regional economies. Seichet tribes and individual Seichet who are members of a NOIT-AREP-POC’s have a greater backing of novel technology, muscle and esteem. The larger AREP-POC’s are known to cross the oceans and recruit the swarthy kin to the east, by offering them what appear to be high wages in local standards but barely sustenance wages in the west. In order to recruit unknowing easterners, the westerners will tell them that they can support their families with their high wages if they move to the west. Although the sad cycle evolves like this, the eastern X is recruited and brought to the west. Upon arrival they are told to look for their own shelter in the strange land and sometimes given a small amount of hsac to start (although it is usually barely enough to pay the local landlord of a local shanty in a high crime and poverty area of the village). You can spot an easterner on the roads by their dress, behavior and appearance. They are usually seen wearing long sleeve shirts with fine stripes and tucked into camel color leg dressings. They usually have a variety of dark skin colors from Olive to the color of black coffee. They are 95% male and all wear the standard facial hair of a mustache. They are often seen walking to work (up to 10 miles) or take communal transportation. If you wish to observe the indentured servants simply wake up early and wait at major roads. You will see them walking carrying their tools of their trade on the backs or in their hands. Look for their uniform and characteristics I have described above. Most of the easterners are very good at their trade and are often seen as having higher skill sets then their western cousin. Although due to a combination of the western dominance, language and customs prevent most easterners from fully becoming successful in the western Company. If they are successful at their trade and manage not become indebted in the western village. Many will return to their home towns after 2-3 years in near slave like working conditions to return home as celebrities for having lived in the west, learning their language, understanding their culture. Back in their home village, they will often serve as advisors to other easterners before they start their own slavery Journey. The Slavery Journey is difficult and lasts 2-3 years. Typically during the Slavery Journey, the easterners are subjected to inhumane working hours typically 12-16 hours a day 7 days a week. They are given extra work under the threat of deadlines. If the Deadline is not met, then they are threatened deportation to the east without the benefit completing their 2 year minimum slavery ritual requirements. Many return to their homeland savvier.
There is a rumor spreading in the west that the easterners are learning too much and organizing a revolt against the west by starting their own trade unions, comprised of former indentured servants and the sons of rich easterners who paid the exorbitant fee to the SEIS-REV-INU elders for the luxury of studying the craft in the west. Some experts project that the east will completely take over the craft in 100 years. The West doesn’t really understand that their time as the ALPHA villages is soon ending. Although the western villages are doing nothing in terms of education and work ethic to counter act their slowly eroding position in trade guild.
Posted in
Career Transition ,
Uncategorized
|
Tagged
Career Transition ,
Code ,
Ethnography ,
Goining Native ,
HR ,
Human Resources ,
Information Technology ,
IT ,
Programing ,
Project Management ,
stranger in a strange land ,
Techies ,
Tribe ,
village ,
Warrior Tale ,
What color is your parachute
|
Leave a comment
Chapter 1 – Letter to the Editor
Posted on
December 13, 2010
by
Tom
November 10, 2010
To Victor Walker, Editor, New York Telegraph
Re: Scott Anders
This letter is in response to your request for background information into the disappearance of our Associate Professor Scott Anders.
We were sad to hear that the Authorities still have yet to find Professor Anders after 3 months. I do hope that the investigators will not give up on the search for his whereabouts; we are all fond of his good nature, inquisitive nature and rapport with the students.
I have my suspicions that Professor Anders became mentally unstable after his 4 year sabbatical studying the “Seichet” peoples in their native land. Conditions were deplorable for the professor and he suffered during his immersion field study. When he returned to the University, he was not the same. He behaved strangely, adopted odd mannerisms, and stayed in his office like a hermit.
I had made an appointment for Professor Anders with a Mental Health expert  as I believed he had a hard to repatriating. I feared that his plans for a complete cultural immersion into the barbaric Seichet tribe would lead to negative consequences ….I just didn’t think he was ready.
I am sending you a package containing the contents of his desk, with the hope that it aids in finding our wayward professor. These items include:
1) A copy of his ethnology “The Seichet Peoples and their Curious Ways”. You will see the many notes in the margins and supplemental handwritten chapters.
2) Printed copies of a Word Press blog by Mr. Homegren, which contains numerous notes on the margins. This is the gentleman who had the row with Professor Anders.
3) A framed photograph of a crude stone medallion, which shows many different symbols and letters in the Seichet language… a curious piece really. Professor Anders was the foremost expert in their archaic language, so we have no ability to translate.
4) A photograph of Professor Anders in full “Seichet” costume and regalia. In this picture, he appears to be showing off what looks like tattoos covering all visible skin on his legs, arms and neck
We hope your article will help someone identify him, we have many questions for him and would like his primary research returned to us. These materials are the property of University of WG, School of Anthropology.
Best Regards,
Charles Miller
Associate Dean, of the University of Western Grocester, School of Anthropology
—————————————————————
Editor’s (Victor Walker) Comments on Materials- 12/16/2010:
After reviewing the letter from Dean Miller, at UWG University, it seems that Scott was a little naïve about his abilities and appeared to be almost divining the spirit of
Christopher McCandless
in his search for life fulfillment. I doubt Scott packed more than rubber boots and a sack lunch before starting his field study.
In reviewing the contents of the package from Dean Miller: the picture of the stone tablet means nothing to me right now… very interesting characters and symbols but it might as well be a Chinese newspaper. I have the same reaction the picture of Scott.  The costume and tattoos make for a compelling picture …most people just like to look at the pictures in the magazines anyways. Note to self: Call his mother for a high school graduation picture to show side by side.
The two pieces that I actually find interesting is Scott’s ethnology on the Seichet People and “Tom’s Job Blog” Printouts. Note to self, I need to tell my assistant to block calls from that jackass Dean Walker; I’m not sure why he keeps calling me to get a status on my article and “any new information”. This guy seems to think he is my Editor…what a creep.  Next steps are to read both the Ethnology and Tom’s Blog Posts.
Posted in
Career Transition ,
Uncategorized
|
Tagged
Career Transition ,
Code ,
Goining Native ,
HR ,
Human Resources ,
Information Technology ,
IT ,
Programing ,
Project Management ,
Techies ,
Warrior Tale ,
What color is your parachute
|
Leave a comment
Primer to Reading: What is an Ethnology
Posted on
December 13, 2010
by
Tom
Explanation of an Ethnology from the Website WiseGeek.com
http://www.wisegeek.com/what-is-ethnology.htm
Ethnology is a specialized discipline within the larger field of
anthropology . Within this discipline, the identifying characteristics of a particular cultural or ethnic group are studied in detail, with an eye toward understanding how each of those elements shape the internal function of that group. Often, the study will also encompass understanding how a particular segment of the human family uses their unique characteristics to relate with other ethnic and cultural groups.
There are several areas of interest that compose any serious ethnology research. For any racial, ethnic, or cultural group, the focus is on the components that give the group its own unique flavor. This includes elements like the origins of the community, the distribution of its members, and the internal social structure that has evolved over time. In order to fully appreciate these factors, it is also necessary to grasp the roles that religion, language,
economics , and technology play in the formation of the group’s identity.
In most cases, the
ethnologist
will make use of resources such as printed matter, audio and video recordings, and other tools to gain a working knowledge of a given group. This contrasts with the approach of an
ethnographer , who will actually spend time with the group and become a member of the community in as many ways as possible. Both approaches have their merits, with
ethnography
providing subtle insights that may not be immediately grasped by outsiders, and ethnology taking those findings and attempting to present them in a way that everyone can understand.
The process of ethnology study often seeks to bring to light and analyze how certain actions or concepts attain the status of being considered natural or a matter of
common sense
within a given social structure. At the same time, the ethnological process will explore the origins and development of actions and ideas that are considered taboo within a particular social group, and attempt to recreate the chain of events that led to these ideas and actions losing favor.
At its core, ethnology is about creating a history of the human family, with due consideration of each culture that has contributed or continues to contribute to how people today think, act, worship and live. From this perspective, the goals of wider anthropology and ethnology that focuses on social or cultural aspects within a particular group are very similar. As with all branches of anthropology, ethnology provides a productive and necessary function in understanding who we are and how we came to be what we are today
Posted in
Uncategorized
|
Leave a comment
Welcome to “Tale of the Keyboard and the Spear”
Posted on
December 13, 2010
by
Tom
Welcome to my new blog about my entertaining story about my transition from Human Resources (HR) to Information Technology (IT). Changing Careers is never easy and it’s even more difficult when you are changing careers from a people centric career to a techno-centric workplace.  This story is told from the perspective of two people. The first is Tom, the HR Professional, who unknowingly changes careers to Information Technology and struggles to adjust to his new environment. The second character is Scott, the Cultural Anthropology Professor,  who joins the wild and enigmatic “Seichet” tribe as part of his University Sabbatical. Both Characters enter a journey of self-discovery and learn lessons of what happens when your life adburtly changes. This story will contain elements of the warrior tale, the journey, redemption and comedy and a little romance….  All stories told are based on my real experiences, but have been exagerated for the purposed of entertainment.   Names and situation have  have been changed to protect the innocent. FYI- the character of Scott is more like me, the Character of Tom is my alter-ego.
Thanks for Reading.
Tom
Posted in
Career Transition ,
Uncategorized
|
Tagged
Career Transition ,
Code ,
Goining Native ,
HR ,
Human Resources ,
Information Technology ,
IT ,
Programing ,
Project Management ,
Techies ,
Warrior Tale ,
What color is your parachute
|
Leave a comment
Search for:
Recent Posts
Chapter 4 – The Hidden Journal Entry of Scott Anders
Chapter 3- Printout of “Tom’s Job Blog” Found in Scott Ander’s Desk
Chapter 2 – Ethnography of the the Seichet Peoples
Chapter 1 – Letter to the Editor
Primer to Reading: What is an Ethnology
Recent Comments Archives
January 2011
December 2010
Categories
Career Transition
Uncategorized
Meta
Register
Log in
Entries
RSS
Comments
RSS
WordPress.com
Tale of the keyboard and the Spear
The Twenty Ten Theme .				 Create a free website or blog at WordPress.com .
Tale of the keyboard and the Spear
Create a free website or blog at WordPress.com .
The Twenty Ten Theme .
Follow
Follow “Tale of the keyboard and the Spear”
Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.
Build a website with WordPress.com
Add your thoughts here... (optional)
Post to
Cancel