Bigbang ( Korean )
| >-SoFreashKid-<
>-SoFreashKid-<
Living style Of dance/tha boy
Bigbang ( Korean )
Bigbang Informasjon all u need to know
Tae Yang
Dong Young-bae
( Korean : 동영배,
Hanja : 董永培, born May 18, 1988), better known by his stage name
Taeyang
( Hangul : 태양,
Hanja : 太陽, lit.
sun ) or
Sol , is a South Korean singer. After appearing in Jinusean’s music video “A-yo”, Taeyang began training under YG Entertainment at the age of 12 alongside fellow member and leader
G-Dragon . After six years of vocal and dance training he made his debut in 2006 as the lead vocalist of
Big Bang . In 2008, Taeyang released his debut mini-album
Hot , establishing himself as an R&B artist.
G-dragon
Kwon Ji-Yong
(Korean: 권지용) (born August 18, 1988), better known by his
stage name
G-Dragon
(Korean: 지드래곤), is a
South Korean
singer and songer-writer. A trainee under the record label YG Entertainment for six years, G-Dragon officially debuted as the leader and one of the two rappers for the
Korean
hip-hop group
Big Bang . Since their debut, G-Dragon has involved himself with the production of their albums: he composed and wrote several tracks by himself, including “Lies,” “Last Farewell,” and “Haru Haru.” His involvement received both praises and criticisms from critics. [1]
During the hiatus of Big Bang, G-Dragon released his debut solo album,
Heartbreaker
(2009), which went on to become the most successful albums of the year, garnering sales of over 120,000 copies. The album sparked major controversies for the artist, including accusations of plagiarism.
T.OP
Choi Seung-hyun
( Hangul : 최승현,
Hanja : 崔勝鉉) (born November 4, 1987), better known by his stage name
T.O.P , is a South Korean
rapper
and
actor . Best known as a member of the Korean
boy band
Big Bang , he has branch out to act in various dramas and films, including
I Am Sam
and
Iris .
Seungri
daesung
Daesung
(born
Kang Daesung
on April 26, 1989) is a member of
South Korean
hip hop group
Big Bang . Since his debut, he has released solo singles, performed in musicals, and became a member of reality-variety series
Family Outing .
about the group !
Big Bang
( Korean : 빅뱅,
Japanese : ビッグバン), commonly stylized as
BIGBANG , is a
South Korean
hip-hop
boyband . The group first gained recognition when their formation was documented on television from July 15 to August 13, on a show titled
Big Bang Documentary.
The show was also aired online on GomTV and on MTV Korea.Initially a six-member group, one member dropped out during the airing of the show before Big Bang’s official debut, leading to their current line-up of
G-Dragon ,
T.O.P ,
Taeyang ,
Daesung
and
Seungri .
Following a fairly-successful debut, the group gained mainstream success with the release of “Lies” (Korean: 거짓말) from their 2007 mini-album
Always . They later won two “Artist of the Year” awards from the M.net KM Music Festival and the Seoul Gayo Daesang Award. The group also expanded their activities into Japan, releasing several mini-albums and airplay singles. Nonetheless, their materials would not receive proper promotions until the following year with the release of their first physical Japanese single “ My Heaven .” In recent years, the members have branched out to do solo activities: Taeyang and G-Dragon became solo artists while T.O.P, Daesung, and Seungri started acting.
At the end of 2009, they were the most searched artist in South Korea.The group also became the first foreign group in Japan to receive the Japan Cable Broadcasting Award for “Best Newcomer” and the first from Korea to receive the Japan Records honor.
Like this: Like
Loading...
Leave a Reply
Cancel reply
Enter your comment here...
Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:
Email
(required)
(Address never made public)
Name
(required)
Website
You are commenting using your WordPress.com account.
(  Log Out  /  Change  )
You are commenting using your Twitter account.
(  Log Out  /  Change  )
You are commenting using your Facebook account.
(  Log Out  /  Change  )
You are commenting using your Google+ account.
(  Log Out  /  Change  )
Cancel
Connecting to %s
Notify me of new comments via email.
Pages
Bigbang ( Korean )
History and Movie Dance
Love artist of songs
What is Hip hop?
Who is this Kid?
Archives
March 2010
February 2010
Categories
Uncategorized
(3)
Blog at WordPress.com .
The ChaoticSoul Theme .
Follow
Follow “>-SoFreashKid-<”
Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.
Build a website with WordPress.com
%d
bloggers like this: