'cause i Love AMERICAN + KOREAN GUYS
'cause i Love AMERICAN + KOREAN GUYS
Saturday, April 21, 2012
Choi Si Won
Choi Si-won ( Korean : 최시원; born February 10, 1987), often
known simply as
Siwon ( Korean : 시원), is a
South Korean
recording artist ,
actor
and
model . He is best known as a member of the
K-pop
boy band
Super Junior
and its subgroup
Super Junior-M . He is also one of the first four South Korean artists to appear on Chinese postage stamps.
Career
Early Beginnings
Siwon was scouted by a talent agent from
SM Entertainment
when he was 16 as he was waiting for friends in front of his high school. The agent recommended him to audition for the company's Starlight Casting System to become an
entertainer . Siwon knew his parents would object, so he had to secretly audition. Siwon's parents were later notified that he had passed the auditions. Although his parents allowed him to sign a contract with SM Entertainment, they did not give him any help because they wanted him to take responsibility in his actions. He later moved into dormitories with fellow trainees and was trained in areas of singing, acting, and dancing. SM Entertainment saw potential for him in acting, and thus gave him training in the field. He made his first appearance in a music video of
The Grace 's
Dana
when he was still a solo singer in 2003. A year after, Siwon made a brief appearance in the short drama, Precious Family. In 2005, Siwon made a brief appearance in the KBS drama
Eighteen, Twenty-Nine
as the young Kang Bong-man.
Music Career
Not long after Siwon's first television appearance, SM Entertainment released an announcement that he would officially debut as one of the twelve members in a boy band. This band later became officially known as Super Junior 05, the first generation of the rotational music group Super Junior. A few months before the debut of Super Junior 05, Siwon made his first official media appearance with band mate
Han Geng
as one of the runway models in a fashion show by Bum Suk. Super Junior 05 officially debuted on November 6, 2005 on
SBS 's music program Popular Songs, performing their first single, " TWINS (Knock Out) ". Their debut performance attracted over 500 fans and also garnered oversea viewers from both China and Japan. A full studio album was released a month later, which debuted at #3 on the monthly MIAK K-pop album charts. In March 2006, SM Entertainment began to recruit new members for the next Super Junior generation. However, plans changed when the company added in a thirteenth member and the company declared a halt in forming future Super Junior generations. The group dropped the suffix "05" and became officially credited as Super Junior. The re-polished group hit big after they released their first CD single " U " the following summer, which became Super Junior's most successful single in the music charts at the time. In late 2007, Siwon was put into
Super Junior-M , the Chinese subgroup of Super Junior. Super Junior-M is the first international music group in the Chinese music industry to have members of both
Chinese
and
Korean
descent, and brought an influence in the mainland music industry to produce multi-national music groups. The subgroup specializes in singing Mandarin songs, including versions of Super Junior's Korean songs, bringing the K-pop influence over to the Chinese music industry. Super Junior-M is the first international music group in the Chinese music industry to have members of both Chinese and Korean descent. Super Junior-M debuted in China on April 8, 2008 at the 8th Annual Music Chart Awards with the release of their first single music video, " U ", a Chinese remake of Super Junior's single. The subgroup released their first Chinese-language
studio album ,
Me , on May 2, 2008 to critical success. The album debuted on
Taiwan 's G-music combo charts as #2 and #1 on many of China's and Thailand's music charts. Not long after Super Junior-M's debut, they became one of the most celebrated boy bands in China. The band's popularity further skyrocketed after their highly anticipated mini-album,
Super Girl
was released on September 2009 and managed to receive critical acclaim from numerous Chinese critics. Siwon's biggest success with Super Junior was when they released their third studio album
Sorry, Sorry
on March 12, 2009. The album was met with acclaimed reviews. It was their first album to debut at number one on the Hanteo Charts, selling over 29,000 copies the first day.After only a month of release, the album became South Korea's best-selling album of 2009, and ultimately sold over 250,000 copies in South Korea. It became the best-selling K-pop album in Taiwan,Thailand, China, and the Philippines, in which the latter credited the album to be the first
K-pop
album to reach number one in music charts from the country. The album's title single " Sorry, Sorry " became an instant hit, collecting a total of ten number-one awards for ten consecutive weeks in Korea, and stayed as number one for a record-breaking 37 weeks in Taiwan's K-pop singles chart. "Sorry, Sorry" achieved national and international success, and has since been the group's best-selling single in South Korea. The group went on to release their next album
Bonamana
in May 2010 which managed to outsell Sorry, Sorry, selling over 300,000 copies in South Korea. Super Junior released their fifth studio album
Mr. Simple
which debuted at number one on the South Korean
Gaon Chart , selling 287,427 copies. The album stayed on the chart as number one for four weeks, and sold over 441,000 copies in South Korea by October 2011. However, Siwon was unable take part in some of the group's promotions for the album due to conflicting schedules with filming for the drama,
Poseidon .
Acting Career After Siwon's appearances in Eighteen, Twenty-Nine and Precious Family, he was casted in a larger role for the mini-series
Spring Waltz , playing the supporting role Park Sang-woo, the teenage cousin of a diligent and working young woman. Not long after Siwon's musical debut, he was casted in a large supporting role in the Hong Kong
epic film
A Battle of Wits
as Prince Liang Shi, starring opposite
Andy Lau . The cast promoted the movie throughout China with a short tour of four cities in November 2006. While the film received mixed reviews, Siwon garnered positive notices for his performance. He also received praises from co-star Lau, stating that Siwon is a wonderful actor and that he sets a good example for young Hong Kong idols. Half a year after the release of A Battle of Wits, Siwon starred in the high school mystery/comedy film
Attack on the Pin-Up Boys
with other Super Junior members. He played one of the lead roles as a controlling and severe class president who was one of the popular possible subjects of being attacked by mysterious forces. Despite positive critical ratings, that film did not do well in the box-office, but all four versions of the film's DVD were all sold out and broke chart records. A few months later, Siwon was cast in mini-drama
Legend of Hyang Dan
as the lead role, Lee Mong-ryong. In January 2010, Siwon starred in the SBS drama
Oh My Lady! . It is a romantic comedy about a top star who finds himself living with his manager, a 35 year old woman who is trying to earn money to get custody of her child. He also starred as Agent Kim Jun-Ho, a data analyst and rookie elite agent in the drama
Athena , a spin-off of drama
Iris . Both roles portrayed by him earned highly positive praises from critics, senior actors, and fans alike. There is speculation in whether the series will be reintroduced in a second season, with Siwon playing a much larger role. His acting career also extends into various music videos for fellow label mates, such as
Girls' Generation 's " Hoot ", and Zhang Liyin and
TVXQ 's Xiah's duet " Timeless ", where Siwon starred along with fellow Super Junior member
Han Geng , which received critical praise. Siwon also made appearances in several commercial films, as well as guest appearing or hosting TV shows. In April 2011, Siwon began filming for the
Taiwanese drama
Skip Beat!
( Chinese : 華麗的挑戰) with
Ivy Chen
and fellow band member
Donghae
as the three main characters. It is a live-action adaptation of
Japanese
shōjo
manga
Skip Beat!
by
Yoshiki Nakamura
and filming took place in Taiwan. On August 1, Siwon has been confirmed to be the male lead character in a new KBS drama Poseidon alongside Lee Siyoung and Lee Sungjae. In the drama, he is a part of the #9 Investigation Team, a maritime police unit. Much media attention was placed on Poseidon as it was South Korea's first drama regarding the maritime police. Siwon received praises from his fellow cast members as well as the production team for his commendable acting and friendly conduct on set. Poseidon was broadcast on 19 October 2011 to 8 November 2011. Due to busy filming schedules that collide with Super Junior's activities, it was decided that Siwon will cease the latter during the duration of filming.
Modelling Siwon is best known for his "handsome appearance" and muscular physique. His looks have earned him spots on various idol "best" lists, such as being put at eleventh place in the show Idol Chart's "Most Flawless Body" list. His body is often referred to as the best by his fellow Super Junior members and many fans, and he is sometimes called "sculpture man" because his body appears "perfectly chiseled out." His fans also comically refer to his abdominal muscles frequently as "chocolate abs." He is also the tallest among Super Junior members along with
Zhou Mi
from Super Junior-M, standing approximately 183 centimeters tall. Super Junior's leader
Leeteuk
jokingly mentioned in an episode of SBS's
Strong Heart
that Siwon is purposely placed in the middle in most Super Junior photos because "putting him in the middle gives the illusion that all members of the group are really handsome". It was also mentioned that he usually sings the first verse to their songs so that the audience would see an "appealing visual." Apart from acting and Super Junior, Siwon has also appeared in various catalogs and commercials. He modeled along with
Sulli
of girl group
f(x)
in the 3 March 2010
André Kim
fashion show, receiving much praise and media attention. He has also been featured in notable magazines such as Cosmopolitan, Elle, High Cut, and Men's Health, as well as modeling for large brand names such as Armani, Lacoste, Gucci, Evisu, Burberry and several others. Siwon also makes several prominent appearances in Korean brand Spao's catalogues along with SNSD and other Super Junior members. He also recently endorsed and modeled for the SK Telesys "Reaction" smart phone, also appearing in the phone's comical mock-action commercial, as well as Acer products. In September 2011 Siwon became the first male model to endorse skincare brand Mamonde. As of March 2012, it was announced that
Girls' Generation
Kwon Yuri
will join him as the main model of Mamonde.
Personal Life Siwon has one younger sister. His father is currently the
CEO
of a
pharmaceutical company . Before his debut with Super Junior, Siwon stayed in
Beijing, China
as an
exchange student
for three months in 2004. He graduated from Gu Jeong High School in February 2006 and later went on to attend
Inha University
in which he graduated in February 2012 alongside fellow member
Ryeowook . Siwon is a devout
Protestant Christian , and has said in an interview that after his career, he would like to become a missionary. He is also a
drummer
and has filled in several times as a dummer for the pop rock band
TRAX
after the group's drummer, Rose, left the band. He is skilled in
Taekwondo
and was once the youngest in South Korea to hold the fourth rank in the black belt. He is also the first Korean celebrity to reach over one million followers on
Twitter . Siwon, alongside with Brian Joo, Alexander Lee Eusebio and Taiwanese Pop Artist, Vanness Wu, have been featured on CCM group 3RD WAVE's album and tours. Siwon is personally mentored by Johnny Lee (PJ) of 3RD WAVE and they sing "Your Grace is Enough" together at every Super Show 4 concert around the world.
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Choi_Siwon
Posted by
Hei Jhiee Lee
at
7:01 AM
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share to Pinterest
No comments:
Post a Comment
Newer Post
Older Post
Home
Subscribe to:
Post Comments (Atom)
Blog Archive
▼
2012
(51)
►
May
(21)
▼
April
(30)
Lim Ju Hwan
Lim Ju Hwan (born May 18, 1982),...
Son Dong-woon
Son Dongwoon (born June 6, 199...
Lee Gi-kwang
Lee Gi-kwang (Korean: 이기광) is a...
Jae Hee
Jae Hee (born Lee Hyun-kyoon, 25 May...
Kim Soo-hyun
Kim Soo-hyun (Hangul: 김수현) (bor...
Woo Bin
Kim Joon (born Kim Hyung Joon on Feb...
Jung Ii Woo
Jung Il Woo (Hangul: 정일우) (bor...
Choi Min Hwan
Profile
Name: Choi Min-Hwan Ha...
Lee Jae Jin
Lee Jae Jin (born July 18, 1979)...
Lee Hong Ki
Born March 2, 1990, Lee Hong Ki/...
Choi Jong Hoon
Choi Jong Hoon (최종훈; pronounc...
Choi Woo Hyuk
Choi Woo Hyuk (Korean: 최우혁 , b...
Kim Kibum
Kim Ki-bum was born on 21 August 1...
Kang Min Hyuk
Kang Min Hyuk (강민혁 born on Jun...
Kim Ryeo Wook
Kim Ryeo Wook (Hangul: 김려욱, ...
Lee Jae Hwang
Lee Jae Hwang (born December 2...
No Min Woo
No Min Woo (born May 29, 1986) is...
Jung Ji-Hoon
Jung Ji-Hoon (born June 25, 198...
Kwon Sang-woo
Kwon Sang-woo (Korean: 권상우) (...
Kim Jeong Hoon
Kim Jeong Hoon (born January 2...
Yoon Shi Yoon
Yoon Shi-yoon (윤시윤)(Born 26 S...
Lee Jun Ki
Lee Jun-ki (born April 17, 1982, ...
Kim Hye-seong
Kim Hye-seong (Hangul: 김혜성; al...
Hyun Bin
Hyun Bin (Korean: 현빈) (born Kim Ta...
Jang Geun Suk
Jang Geun-suk or Keun-Suk (Han...
Jung Yong Hwa
Jung Yong Hwa (정용화; pronounced...
Choi Si Won
Choi Si-won (Korean: 최시원; born F...
Kim Hyun Joong
Kim Hyun Joong (Hangul: 김현중, ...
Lee Min Ho
Lee Min Ho (Hangul: 이민호, born Ju...
Good Girls Go Bad With Their Looks And Smile
Kim...
About Me
Hei Jhiee Lee
View my complete profile
Loading...
Awesome Inc. template. Powered by
Blogger .