March | 2011 | livehigh26
livehigh26
Just another WordPress.com site
Home About
RSS
Monthly Archives:
March 2011
T.O.P’s shocking picture!!!!
31
Mar
hey VIPs!!
so yesterday i was wondering how TOP and the other members of Big Bang look like in past.so i googled it.  i kinda worried though, i was afraid that i’d be disappointed with the pictures. well, i heard that ALL of korean celebrities had plastic surgery. but i felt so relieved when i read that none of Big Bang members had one. except for Dae Sung. well, he had to do a plastic surgery because he had an accident. terrible!
:(
anyway, i was googling and i found their pictures. they’re alright
:D
Ji Yong looks just the same. just more chubby :p
i laughed so hard when i saw tae yang’s picture. it’s not that different. but it was funny hahaha
BUT!!
the picture shocked me the most was TOP’s. i was like “what the…..???”
it was extremely shocking!
here’s TOP’s picture before joining BIG BANG
Choi Seung Hyun, past T.O.P
shocking, isn’t it????
let’s compare this picture to present him picture
present TOP Big Bang
he was super super chubby and fat in his past!!
gosh, i am so proud of TOP.
his face looks the same, but his body……. unbelieveable!
it must took a lot of effort and time!
Good job TOP
:D
Leave a comment
Posted by
livehigh26
on March 31, 2011 in
BIG BANG!
BIG BANG’s profile :D
30
Mar
so for you guys who’ve been trying to find information about BIG BANG members, here are some stuffs about them that you should know
:D
G-Dragon –Leader– (a.k.a Ji Yong)
Real name : Kwon Ji-yong
Date of birth : August 18th, 1988
Physique : 170cm, 54kg
Education : Traditional Arts Middle School
Hobbies : Drawing, listening to music
Talents : Rap, dance, beat box, songwriting
Tae Yang (a.k.a SOL)
Real name : Dong Young-bae
Date of birth : May 18th, 1988
Physique : 170cm, 56kg
Hobbies : Playing basketball, listening to music, watching TV
Talents : Rap, dance
T.O.P
Real name : Choi Seung-hyun
Date of birth : November 4th, 1987
Physique : 180cm, 65kg
Education : Seoul Arts College
Talents : Rap, beat box, songwriting
Seung Ri (a.k.a VI or Victory)
Real name : Lee Seung-hyun
Date of birth : December 12th, 1990
Physique : 174cm, 57kg
Daesung (a.k.a D-Lite
“delight”)
Real name : Kang Dae-sung
Date of birth : April 26th, 1989
Physique : 173cm, 62kg
Education : Kyung-in High School
:D
:D
<3
Leave a comment
Posted by
livehigh26
on March 30, 2011 in
BIG BANG!
BIG BANG’s details
30
Mar
Big Bang
(korean: 빅뱅), commonly stylized as
BIGBANG , is a South Korean Boyband. The group’s formation was chronicled on the television series
Big Bang Documentary , from July to August 2006. The show was also aired online on GomTV and on MTV Korea.Initially a six-member group, one member got eliminated during the airing of the show before the official debut leading to their current line-up.
Signed to YG Entertaiment, BIG BANG released several successful singles and EPs. Their first release, the EP
Always
(2007), spawned the number-one single “Lies” (Korean: 거짓말; revised romanization :
Geojitmal ). The follow-up EPs
Hot Issue
and
Stand Up
were similarly successful.After they received the “Artist of the Year” award from the M.net KM music festival and the Seoul Gayo Daesang Award, the group expanded their activities
into Japan, releasing mini-albums and airplay singles. Their materials
would not receive major promotion until the following year with the
release of their first physical Japanese single, “My Heaven”.
HISTORY
2005-2006, formation and early works
By the end of 2009, Big Bang became the most searched artist in South Korea.They also became the first foreign group in Japan to receive the Japan
Cable Broadcasting Award for “Best Newcomer”, and the first from Korea
to receive the Japan Records award.In recent years, the members have branched out to do solo activities:
Taeyang and G-Dragon have released solo materials while T.O.P, Daesung
and Seungri have started acting.
Before the group’s debut, several members already had exposure in the entertainment industry. Leader
G-Dragon , and lead vocalist
Taeyang
were signed with
YG Entertainment
since they were both twelve years old (thirteen years old Korean Age) , were known as GD and YB.
T.O.P
was an underground rapper under the stage name Tempo. Big Bang made their debut on August 19,
2006 at the Gymnastics Arena in Seoul Olympic Park during the YG Family
concert.
Following the performance, the group’s first single, “ Bigbang “, was released. It contained the songs “We Belong Together,” featuring labelmate Park Bom; “A Fool’s Only Tears” (Korean: 눈물뿐인 바보; Revised Romanization:
Nunmulppunin Babo ); and “This Love”, an adaptation of the
American
rock band
Maroon 5
song , rewritten and performed by G Dragon. The single went on to sell nearly 40,000 copies. The second single, “ BigBang Is V.I.P “, was released in September, eventually topping 32,000 copies sold.The last single, “ Bigbang 03 “, followed, with final sales nearing 40,000 copies. At the end of December 2006, Big Bang held their first concert,
The Real . The following month, their debut album,
Since 2007 , was released, selling 48,009 copies by the end of February 2007.
2007 – 2008, breakthrough success
On February 8, 2007, Big Bang released their live concert album,
The First / Real Live Concert , which sold 30,000 copies by the end of the year. The group also began their
Want You
tour, visiting five cities:
Incheon ,
Daegu ,
Changwon ,
Jeonju
and
Busan . Their first mini-album,
Always ,
was also released in 2007, and marked several changes for the group.
Though previously already writing and composing, the group has decided
to take more control over their music. G-Dragon composed and wrote most
of the tracks included in their first mini album release including the
title single, “Lies” (Korean: 거짓말; Revised Romanization:
Geojitmal ). The mini-album also saw the introduction of
electronic music
for Big Bang. Receptions were fairly positive, most notably in regards
to the song “Lies”, which critics described as “through the roof”. Released as the lead single, it became their first #1 hit; the album itself sold 300,000 copies. Their second mini album,
Hot Issue , released that same year, followed its predecessor’s success: the lead-single, “Last Farewell”, (Korean: 마지막 인사; Revised Romanization:
Majimak Insa ) topped various charts, including the Juke-On’s chart for eight consecutive weeks. It also won the “Song of the Month Digital Music Award” from
Cyworld . Tickets for their
Big Bang Is Great
concert were also reportedly sold out in 10 minutes.
Near the end of 2007, it was reported that members of the band were hospitalized from over-performing and exhaustion, halting their promotional activities. Reports were later released that
Big Bang’s albums and singles were in high demand, causing the record
company to reprint and repackage them for re-release.Riding on the success of their mini-album, the group collected numerous
awards towards the end of the year, including “Best Male Group” and
“Song Of The Year” from the 2007 M.NET/KM Music Festival. They later received the “Artist of the Year” award from the 17 th
Seoul Music Awards.The group earned a total of
₩ 12 billion ( USD$ 10.6 million) at the end of the year.
As 2007 came to a close, Big Bang ventured overseas to
Japan . Their first Japanese
EP ,
For the World , released in early 2008,charted at #10 on the
Oricon
chart with little promotion. The group also held a concert at the
JCB Hall
in
Tokyo Dome City .
Big Bang returned to Korea after promotions in Japan ended. Although
group activities were delayed due to solo projects, their third
mini-album of 2008,
Stand Up , was released. Featuring
Daishi Dance
and the Korean rock-band
No Brain ,
Stand Up
exceeded the 100,000 mark in sales. “Day By Day” (Korean: 하루하루; Revised Romanization:
Haru Haru ), the lead single, topped several online charts and held the #1 position for six consecutive weeks. Following the lead single’s success, other songs also charted within
the Top 20, with “Heaven” reaching #2, “Oh My Friend” hitting #9, “A
Good Man” at #12, and “Lady” peaking at #16 — a total of five songs in
the Top 20 for the group.
During the release of their Korean materials, Big Bang released the Japanese song, “Number 1”, from their
album of the same name , performing the song on Japanese radio programs and TV shows; the album peaked at number-three on the Japan’s
Oricon
daily album chart. Their Korean follow-up album,
Remember , also released in 2008, yielded the #1 single, “Sunset Glow” (Korean: 붉은노을; Revised Romanization:
Byulkeun Noeul ). “Strong Baby”, performed solely by Seungri, was released as the second single. The album went on to sell over 200,000 copies. Big Bang received their second “Artist of the Year” award from the 2008 M.NET KM Music Festival award ceremony. At the end of 2008, it was reported that Big Bang earned a total of
₩ 36 billion ( USD$ 24.5 million).
2009 – present, solo activities and comebacks
With the group on break in early 2009, the members pursued solo
activities. They later reunited to collaborate with their label’s new
girl group
2NE1 , who had been dubbed “The Female Big Bang”, for the song “ Lollipop “.
A music video was also filmed for promotion. Initially used to promote a
cell phone, “Lollipop” reached the #1 spot on various online charts. Their first
self-titled full-length Japanese album
was released under
Universal Music
in August 2009 and was promoted with two singles: “ My Heaven ” and “ Gara Gara Go!! ” (ガラガラ GO!! ? ).”My Heaven”, a Japanese translation of their Korean single, “Heaven”, (Korean: 천국; Revised Romanization:
Cheonguk ) from
Stand Up , was composed by Japanese composer
Daishi Dance , [10]
and debuted at #3 on the Oricon Chart. “Gara Gara Go!” charted at #5. The album itself peaked at #3. After their return to Korea, the members went back to their solo activities. On August 18, G-Dragon released his debut album,
Heartbreaker , promoting it with the album’s
title track . Taeyang released two digital singles, “Where U At?” and “Wedding Dress”, to promote his second album released in 2010.T.O.P joined the cast of the Korean
thriller
drama
Iris , playing the assassin Vick. They later reunited to record the song “ Koe o Kikasete ” (声をきかせて,
Let Me Hear Your Voice ? ) for the Japanese drama
Ohitorisama
( おひとりさま,
One Person ? ). The song was later released as a single, peaking at #4.
For several days in January 2010, Big Bang performed their
2010 Big Bang Concert Big Show
in the Seoul Olympic Stadium. The following month, they embarked on their
Electric Love
tour in Japan. Although no official albums were recorded, 2010 saw the release of
several singles for the group with promotional ties. The release of
“Lollipop Part 2” in February, the follow-up to their single,
“Lollipop”, with
2NE1 , was used to coincide with promotions for
LG Cyon ‘s Lollipop phone.and also reached number one on digital charts. Their next single,  was recorded for the Japanese re-release of Korean drama
Iris .The song proved to be popular gaining favorable reviews, winning the Best Song Award at the 52nd Japan Record Awards. Additionally, tying in with the 2010 World Cup, the group released the song “Shout of the Reds” featuring the Korean rock band, Transfixion and ice skater, Kim Yu-Na
For most of the year, the members individually promoted their own solo works and solo activities, including the release of the GD & T.O.P. unit with their collaboration album and the release of Seungri’s first mini album titled “VVIP.” Big Bang also won several notable awards, including the Best 5 New Artists award from the 24 th
Japan Gold Disc Award  as well as the Best New Artist. Near the end of May, the group received the awards for ‘Best Pop Video’ and ‘Best New Artist” from the MTV Video Music Awards Japan 2010 .They released their latest Japanese single “Beautiful Hangover” on August 25, 2010.
After nearly two year hiatus as a full group, Big Bang returned to South Korea with their 2011 Big Show concert.They also showcased songs from their latest EP
Tonight
which went on to become a chart-topper upon its release on many Korean music chart. The album also became the first K-pop album to reach the top 10 on US
iTunes chart and is the only non-English language album in the top 100. The album had a pre-sale order of 10,000 copies in Cyworld, beating the record set by TVXQ’s 6,500 copies back in 2008.Overall reception for the EP has been positive, with Choi Jun of Asiae
complimenting the group’s new direction in their music, acknowledging
that during the two years hiatus, the group’s “style and musical
sensibility [had] deepened.”Seven days after the album’s release, it was reported that Big Bang had already earn 7 billion (USD 6.2million). In a week, 100,000 album copies were sold.
its lead-single of the name became a chart-topper on the Gaon Chart
MUSICAL STYLES
During the early days of their career, Big Bang’s music was predominately hip hop,
although they incorporated R&B songs into their albums as well. A
writer for Yahoo! Japan once compared their early materials to that of American hip-hop artists such as the Black Eyed Peas, stating that their material included “catchy vocals, […] rap and characters”.
Always
was noted for its change of musical styles from their previous efforts, with the group experimenting with electronic music and setting it as the new music trend in Korea. G-Dragon later stated that they hoped “to reach even more fans” with the new direction. In 2008, they recorded “Oh My Friend”, a rock-based song, with the Korean rock-band No Brain. In an interview, the group also expressed interests in covering the music genre trot.
Members of the band have branched out to other styles for solo
projects, thus the group has been described as “rich in variety” for
their fans.Taeyang’s mini-album,
Hot , was mainly a collection of R&B songs, with the singer stating that the genre was his “main focus”. Daesung’s first digital single, “Look at Me, GwiSun” (Korean: 날 봐, 귀순), was a trot song, which drew criticisms due to Big Bang’s image as “hip-hop artists”.For his debut album,
Heartbreaker , G-Dragon incorporated a mix of dance, hip-hop, and R&B songs.
Following the release of
Always , G-Dragon began involving himself with the production of the group’s materials, penning the lyrics and composing the songs “Lie”, “Last Farewell”, and “Day By Day”. His involvement was praised by the
Korea Times , who described him as a “genius singer-songwriter”. G-Dragon himself described the group as “an idol group not born of talent but through effort”. A writer for Yahoo! Japan complimented the group for their involvement
in their work, stating that “perhaps by [each of the members’]
contributing to their own materials, not only do they become in sync
with one another, but each person’s personality stands out.”
Big Bang is choreographed by Shaun Evaristo. While they once relied heavily on street dancing for their moves, Big Bang have made a transition towards more
choreography. Their dance moves have been widely copied and covered. One
of the moves, which incorporates the group lifting their shirts to
expose their abdomens, quickly gained popularity online and became one
of the top searches on the internet. Another one, in which the group incorporates the idea of “jump roping” as a dance move, also gained attention from fans.
source: wikipedia.org
Leave a comment
Posted by
livehigh26
on March 30, 2011 in
BIG BANG! ,
music::
yeah, BIG BANG!
30
Mar
before, i didn’t really like those k-pop stuffs. like TVXQ, super junior, SNSD (Girl’s Generation), T-ARA , etc.
i mean, well, some of my friends are huge fans of those korean boy band. i do like some of them. but…. i didn’t find how much lovable they are. i like some songs, but naah, i didn’t find myself having some kind of starstruck or something. i was like , “why do they love them so much?”
BUT!!
my older brother is a fan of one korean boy band. at first, my respond to that boy band was just the same, just like how i saw in the other k-pop boy band. but after i knew things about them more, i suddenly got my self fell in love with that boy band!
for me, their image as a boy band is different than any other boy band.
BIG BANG!!!!
they’re cute right? =p
my favorite is T.O.P!! he’s the rapper and beatboxer. how cool is that?
:D
<3
Choi Seung Hyun a.k.a T.O.P BIG BANG
:D
i love their image as a group of playful guys and they’re just being who they are. it’s been so much fun to watch their show
:D
they’re just super FUN!
Leave a comment
Posted by
livehigh26
on March 30, 2011 in
BIG BANG! ,
music::
i, me, and myself::
30
Mar
hey guys!
thank you so much for visiting my blog
in this post, i’d like to introduce myself so you can get to know me better.
my name is audrey, i’m 15 now. i was born in 1995.
so, this blog is all about things about me and stuffs that i love.
maybe music, movies, books, gadgets, and games as well.
that's me and a friend of mine
well, i don’t have much to say here, but i will keep my blog up to date as soon as possible.
anyway, i have one last thing to say.
i hope you guys enjoy this blog and find stuffs here quite entertaining.
enjoy reading
:)
Leave a comment
Posted by
livehigh26
on March 30, 2011 in
about me::
Search
Pages
About
Archives
July 2011
April 2011
March 2011
Categories
about me::
(1)
BIG BANG!
(5)
L. O. V. E
(1)
music::
(2)
Create a free website or blog at WordPress.com .
The Choco Theme .
Entries (RSS)
and
Comments (RSS)
livehigh26
Blog at WordPress.com .
The Choco Theme .
Follow
Follow “livehigh26”
Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.
Build a website with WordPress.com
Add your thoughts here... (optional)
Post to
Cancel