Starlight of TheBlackPearl: My TOP 5 BoyBand/ GirlBand/Band....
Starlight of TheBlackPearl
Raise Your Voice Louder and LOUDER!!!
Pages
Home
Kpop Zone
I Luv Cookies
YG Famz Line
IMyMeMine
13 September 2011
My TOP 5 BoyBand/ GirlBand/Band....
This is MY TOP 5 BOYBAND/ GIRLBAND/ BAND in South Korea.....( ˘ з˘ )♬♪ .. here we go...ε=ε=┏( >_<)┛ #1.....B.I.G BANG.....(Im VIPs, indeed) Big Bang
( Korean :
빅뱅 ; commonly stylized as
BIGBANG ) is a
South Korean
boy band . The group's formation was chronicled on the television series
Big Bang Documentary , from July to August 2006. The show was also aired online on GomTV and on MTV Korea.
Initially a six-member group, one member,
Jang Hyun-seung
(now a member of
Beast ), got eliminated during the airing of the show before the official debut
leading to their current line-up.
Signed to
YG Entertainment , Big Bang released several successful singles and
EPs . Their first release, the EP
Always
(2007), spawned the number-one single "Lies" ( Korean :
거짓말 ;
Revised Romanization :
Geojitmal ). The follow-up EPs
Hot Issue
and
Stand Up
were similarly successful.
After they received the "Artist of the Year" award from the
M.net KM Music Festival
and the Seoul Gayo Daesang Award, the group expanded their activities
into Japan, releasing mini-albums and airplay singles. Their materials
would not receive major promotion until the following year with the
release of their first physical Japanese single, " My Heaven ".
They became the first foreign group in Japan to receive the Japan
Cable Broadcasting Award for "Best Newcomer", and the first from Korea
to receive the Japan Records award.
In recent years, the members have branched out to do solo activities:
Taeyang and G-Dragon have released solo materials while T.O.P, Daesung
and Seungri have started acting. HISTORY 2005–06: Formation and early works
Before the group's debut, several members already had exposure in the entertainment industry. Leader
G-Dragon
and lead vocalist
Taeyang
were signed with
YG Entertainment
since they were both 12 years old (13 years old in Korean Age) , were known as GD and YB.
T.O.P
was an underground rapper
under the stage name Tempo. Big Bang made their debut on August 19,
2006 at the Gymnastics Arena in Seoul Olympic Park during the YG Family
concert.
Following the performance, the group's first single, " Bigbang ", was released. It contained the songs "We Belong Together," featuring labelmate
Park Bom ; "A Fool's Only Tears" (Korean:
눈물뿐인 바보 ; Revised Romanization:
Nunmulppunin Babo ); and "This Love", an adaptation of the
American
rock band
Maroon 5
song , rewritten and performed by G Dragon.
The single went on to sell nearly 40,000 copies.
The second single, " BigBang Is V.I.P ", was released in September, eventually topping 32,000 copies sold.
The last single, " Bigbang 03 ", followed, with final sales nearing 40,000 copies.
At the end of December 2006, Big Bang held their first concert,
The Real . The following month, their debut album,
Since 2007 , was released, selling 48,009 copies by the end of February 2007. 2007–08: Breakthrough success
On February 8, 2007, Big Bang released their live concert album,
The First / Real Live Concert , which sold 30,000 copies by the end of the year.
The group also began their
Want You
tour, visiting five cities:
Incheon ,
Daegu ,
Changwon ,
Jeonju
and
Busan .
Their first mini-album,
Always ,
was also released in 2007, and marked several changes for the group.
Though previously already writing and composing, the group has decided
to take more control over their music. G-Dragon composed and wrote most
of the tracks included in their first mini album release including the
title single, "Lies" (Korean:
거짓말 ; Revised Romanization:
Geojitmal ).
The mini-album also saw the introduction of
electronic music
for Big Bang. Receptions were fairly positive, most notably in regards
to the song "Lies", which critics described as "through the roof".
Released as the lead single, it became their first #1 hit; the album itself sold 87,0000 copies.
Their second mini album,
Hot Issue , released that same year, followed its predecessor's success: the lead-single, "Last Farewell", (Korean:
마지막 인사 ; Revised Romanization:
Majimak Insa ) topped various charts, including the Juke-On's chart for eight consecutive weeks.
It also won the "Song of the Month Digital Music Award" from
Cyworld . Tickets for their
Big Bang Is Great
concert were also reportedly sold out in 10 minutes. Near the end of 2007, it was reported that members of the band were hospitalized from over-performing and exhaustion,
halting their promotional activities. Reports were later released that
Big Bang's albums and singles were in high demand, causing the record
company to reprint and repackage them for re-release.
Riding on the success of their mini-album, the group collected numerous
awards towards the end of the year, including "Best Male Group" and
"Song Of The Year" from the 2007 M.NET/KM Music Festival.
They later received the "Artist of the Year" award from the 17 th
Seoul Music Awards.
The group earned a total of
₩ 12 billion ( USD$ 10.6 million) at the end of the year.
As 2007 came to a close, Big Bang ventured overseas to
Japan . Their first Japanese
EP ,
For the World , released in early 2008, charted at #10 on the
Oricon
chart with little promotion.
The group also held a concert at the
JCB Hall
in
Tokyo Dome City .
Big Bang returned to Korea after promotions in Japan ended. Although
group activities were delayed due to solo projects, their third
mini-album of 2008,
Stand Up , was released. Featuring
Daishi Dance
and the Korean rock-band
No Brain ,
Stand Up
exceeded the 100,000 mark in sales. "Day By Day" (Korean:
하루하루 ; Revised Romanization:
Haru Haru ), the lead single, topped several online charts and held the #1 position for six consecutive weeks.
Following the lead single's success, other songs also charted within
the Top 20, with "Heaven" reaching #2, "Oh My Friend" hitting #9, "A
Good Man" at #12, and "Lady" peaking at #16 — a total of five songs in
the Top 20 for the group.
During the release of their Korean materials, Big Bang released the Japanese song, "Number 1", from their
album of the same name , performing the song on Japanese radio programs and TV shows; the album peaked at number-three on the Japan's
Oricon
daily album chart. Their Korean follow-up album,
Remember , also released in 2008, yielded the #1 single, "Sunset Glow" (Korean:
붉은노을 ; Revised Romanization:
Byulkeun Noeul ). "Strong Baby", performed solely by Seungri, was released as the second single. The album went on to sell over 200,000 copies.
Big Bang received their second "Artist of the Year" award from the 2008 M.NET KM Music Festival award ceremony.
At the end of 2008, it was reported that Big Bang earned a total of
₩ 36 billion ( USD$ 24.5 million). 2009–present: Solo activities and comeback With the group on break in early 2009, the members pursued solo
activities. They later reunited to collaborate with their label's new
girl group
2NE1 , who had been dubbed "The Female Big Bang",
for the song " Lollipop ".
A music video was also filmed for promotion. Initially used to promote a
cell phone, "Lollipop" reached the number one spot on various online
charts.
Their first
self-titled full-length Japanese album
was released under
Universal Music
in August 2009 and was promoted with two singles: " My Heaven " and " Gara Gara Go!! "
( ガラガラ GO!! ) .
"My Heaven", a Japanese translation of their Korean single, "Heaven", (Korean:
천국 ; Revised Romanization:
Cheonguk ) from
Stand Up , was composed by Japanese composer
Daishi Dance ,
and debuted at #3 on the Oricon Chart.
"Gara Gara Go!" charted at #5.
The album itself peaked at #3.
After their return to Korea, the members went back to their solo activities. On August 18, G-Dragon released his debut album,
Heartbreaker , promoting it with the album's
title track . Taeyang released two digital singles, "Where U At?" and "Wedding Dress", to promote his second album released in 2010.
T.O.P joined the cast of the Korean
thriller
drama
Iris , playing the assassin Vick.
They later reunited to record the song " Koe o Kikasete "
( 声をきかせて ,
Let Me Hear Your Voice )
for the Japanese drama
Ohitorisama
(
おひとりさま ,
One Person ) .
The song was later released as a single, peaking at #4.
For several days in January 2010, Big Bang performed their
2010 Big Bang Concert Big Show
in the Seoul Olympic Stadium.
The following month, they embarked on their
Electric Love
tour in Japan.
Although no official albums were recorded, 2010 saw the release of
several singles for the group with promotional ties. The release of
"Lollipop Part 2" in February, the follow-up to their single,
"Lollipop", with
2NE1 , was used to coincide with promotions for
LG Cyon 's Lollipop phone.
and also reached number one on digital charts.
Their next single, " Tell Me Goodbye " was recorded for the Japanese re-release of Korean
drama
Iris .
The song proved to be popular gaining favorable reviews,
winning the Best Song Award at the 52nd
Japan Record Awards .
Additionally, tying in with the
2010 World Cup , the group released the song "Shout of the Reds" featuring the Korean
rock band , Transfixion and
ice skater
Kim Yu-na .
For most of the year, the members individually promoted their own solo works and solo activities,
including the release of the
GD & TOP . unit with their
collaboration album
and the release of Seungri's first mini album titled "VVIP."
Big Bang also won several notable awards, including the Best 5 New Artists award from the 24 th
Japan Gold Disc Awards
as well as the Best New Artist.
Near the end of May, the group received the awards for 'Best Pop Video' and 'Best New Artist" from the
MTV Video Music Awards Japan
2010 .
They released their latest Japanese single " Beautiful Hangover " on August 25, 2010.
After nearly two year hiatus as a full group, Big Bang returned to South Korea with their 2011 Big Show concert.
They also showcased songs from their latest EP
Tonight , which went on to become a chart-topper upon its release on many Korean music chart.
The album also became the first K-pop album to reach the top 10 on US
iTunes chart and is the only non-English language album in the top 100.
The album had a pre-sale order of 10,000 copies in Cyworld, beating the record set by
TVXQ 's 6,500 copies back in 2008.
Overall reception for the EP has been positive, with Choi Jun of Asiae
complimenting the group's new direction in their music, acknowledging
that during the two years hiatus, the group's "style and musical
sensibility [had] deepened."
Seven days after the album's release, it was reported that Big Bang had already earn
₩ 7 billion ( USD$ 6.2 million).
In a week, 100,000 album copies were sold.
Its lead-single of the name became a chart-topper on the
Gaon Chart .
The second single, "Love Song", also proved to be favorable; the music video on
YouTube
gained 2 million views within two days.
The group kicked off their Love & Hope Tour in May.
According to some people, Daesung's accident happened to cause a delay
to their next comeback album and the group decided to wait till Daesung
can come back on stage. Musical styles During the early days of their career, Big Bang's music was predominately
hip hop ,
although they incorporated R&B songs into their albums as well. A
writer for Yahoo! Japan once compared their early materials to that of
American
hip-hop artists such as the
Black-Eyed Peas , stating that their material included "catchy vocals, [...] rap and characters".
Always
was noted for its change of musical styles from their previous efforts, with the group experimenting with
electronic music
and setting it as the new music trend in Korea.
G-Dragon later stated that they hoped "to reach even more fans" with the new direction.
In 2008, they recorded "Oh My Friend", a
rock-based
song, with the Korean rock-band
No Brain . In an interview, the group also expressed interests in covering the music genre
trot . Members of the band have branched out to other styles for solo
projects, thus the group has been described as "rich in variety" for
their fans.
Taeyang's mini-album,
Hot , was mainly a collection of R&B songs, with the singer stating that the genre was his "main focus".
Daesung's first digital single, "Look at Me, GwiSun" (Korean:
날 봐, 귀순 ), was a trot song, which drew criticisms due to Big Bang's image as "hip-hop artists".
For his debut album,
Heartbreaker , G-Dragon incorporated a mix of
dance , hip-hop, and R&B songs.
Following the release of
Always , G-Dragon began involving himself with the production of the group's materials, penning the lyrics and composing the songs "Lie", "Last Farewell", and "Day By Day". His involvement was praised by the
Korea Times , who described him as a "genius singer-songwriter".
G-Dragon himself described the group as "an idol group not born of talent but through effort".
A writer for Yahoo! Japan complimented the group for their involvement
in their work, stating that "perhaps by [each of the members']
contributing to their own materials, not only do they become in sync
with one another, but each person's personality stands out."
Big Bang is often
choreographed
by Shaun Evaristo.
While they once relied heavily on
street dancing
for their moves, Big Bang have made a transition towards more
choreography. Their dance moves have been widely copied and covered. One
of the moves, which incorporates the group lifting their shirts to
expose their abdomens, quickly gained popularity online and became one
of the top searches on the internet.
Another one, in which the group incorporates the idea of "jump roping" as a dance move, also gained attention from fans. Image and cultural impact Big Bang has received both praise and criticism.
Time
magazine described them as one of the "most promising" South Korean acts to venture into Japan,
while the
Korea Times
called them "the icons of Korean pop [music]".
Bill Lamb of
About.com
also list them as one of the "top 10 Asian boy bands".
Their contribution to their materials early in their career, most notably by G-Dragon, has garnered praises; singer
Baek Jiyoung
has state that she "like[s] idol singers if they are like Big Bang".
However, the group has been criticized for their over-use of electronic music in their materials.
Citing the longest-running boy band in South Korea,
Shinhwa
as their influence and role model,
Big Bang's own influence extends beyond the music industry, shaping major trends in the fashion industry.
Dubbed as "Big Bang fashion", their style has gained a following throughout Asia.
The group first adopted the "hip-hop" image concept for their debut. The release of
Always
in 2007 was accompanied by a change in image, with the group leaning towards a more
preppy - punk
style, including
skinny jeans
with
Converse
or high-top sneakers which became a still ongoing trend in South Korea. Taeyang also traded his
cornrows
for a
faux hawk .
Seen wearing brands such as
Bape , 10 deep,
Louis Vuitton , Jeremy Scott, and Phenomenon, Big Bang also wear custom printed
hoodies
for many of their performances and music videos.
They were also credited for bringing back "old school" fashion into the mainstream, such as
Nike
and
Reebok
high-top shoes.
Described as the "most fashionable" one in the group,
G-Dragon is known to sport triangular scarves that were later nicknamed "Big Bang scarves".
T.O.P also gained a following for wearing
sunglasses
during performances.
The clothes that the members donned on stage have gained a cult among their fans and are sold in
boutique
stores such as DongDaeMun.
In 2011, Big Bang collaborated with Japanese clothing retailer
Uniqlo
to create t-shirts in promotion of their Japanese comeback. It was
reported that the items were "sold out within 15 minutes of the store's
opening."
The group's popularity and success have led to endorsement deals. Big Bang have been endorsing
Fila
products since 2006,
as well as the Korean online
FPS
video game
Sudden Attack .
Other products and/or label that the group have been affiliated with is
Baskin Robbin’s, Skoolooks, LG CYON, and NII among others.
In 2011, along with their label management, Big Bang teamed up with
Nikon
for the campaign, A Shot A Day, where daily pictures of the group were be taken and released in episodic format online.
The group also released their own fragrance, "BB Bud's My First Fragrance" (Korean:
나의 첫번째 향기 ), in early 2007.
In 2009, they released their autobiography book
Shouting to the World , which became a best-seller.
Big Bang influenced the creation of the Chinese boy band OkBang, who
were described as having "many similarities to Big Bang in terms of
musical style, wardrobe and hairstyles".
In 2010, the group's
Big Show
concert was chosen by the South Korean Touristic Committee for their
Visit Korea from 2010—2012
campaign, stating that they will "have a big economic impact on the country". Discography Studio albums
Bigbang Vol.1
(2007) Remember
(2008)
Extended plays
Always
(2007) Hot Issue
(2007) Stand Up
(2008) Tonight
(2011)
Japanese discography
Studio albums
Number 1
(2008) Big Bang
(2009) Big Bang 2
(2011)
Extended plays
For the World
(2008) With U
(2008) Concerts and tours The Real Concert
(2006) Want You
(2007) Big Bang is G.R.E.A.T.
(2007) Global Warning
(2008) Stand Up
(2008) Big Show
(2009) Big Show
(2010) Electric Love Tour
(2010) Big Show
(2011) Love & Hope Tour
(2011) ¸.•’★¸.•’★*•~-.¸-★-,.-~*¸.•’★¸​.•’★¸.•’★¸.•’★*•~-.¸-★-,.-~*¸.•’★*•~-.¸ Members : G-Dragon Nama asli: Kwon Ji Yong ( 권지용 ) Tanggal lahir:
18 Agustus
1988
(umur 23) Pendidikan: Seoul Korean Traditional Arts Middle & High School of korean Penampilan pertama: DaeHanMinGook Hip Hop Flex
2001 Posisi: Pemimpin,
rapper , penulis lirik, pencipta lagu T.O.P Nama asli: Choi Seung Hyun ( 최승현 ) Tanggal Lahir:
4 November
1987
(umur 23) Pendidikan: Seoul Art College (jurusan musik) Posisi:
rapper ,
beat boxer , pencipta lagu Daesung (D-Lite) Nama panggung : Dae Sung, D-Lite Nama asli: Kang Dae Sung ( 강대성 ) Tanggal lahir:
26 April
1989
(umur 22) Pendidikan: Sekolah Menengah Atas KyeongIn Posisi: Vokalis Taeyang (SoL) Nama panggung: Tae Yang, SoL Nama kecil: YB Taekwon Nama asli: Dong Young Bae ( 동영배 Tanggal lahir:
18 Mei
1988
(umur 23) Pendidikan: Chung-Ang University Penampilan pertama: YG Family 2nd Album
2002 Posisi: vokalis, koreografer Seungri (Victory)
Nama panggung: Seung Ri, V.I Nama kecil: V & Victory Nama asli: Lee Seung Hyun ( 이승현 ) Tanggal lahir:
12 Desember
1990
(umur 20) Posisi: vokalis, koreografer #2.....is......2NE1!!!!!!
＼(^＿＿＿＿＿^)／ YGLadiezzz's ROCKIN' DE WORLD 2NE1
( Hangul :
투애니원 ;
RR :
tu-aeniwon ; pronounced "to anyone"or "twenty-one") is a
South Korean
hip-hop / pop
girl group formed by
YG Entertainment
in 2009. 2NE1 consists of four members:
Bom ,
Dara ,
CL , and
Minzy . The group's name 2NE1 stands for "New Evolution of the 21st Century".
They first appeared in " Lollipop ", a commercial campaign with
Big Bang
for
LG Electronics , and their debut single " Fire " was released on May 6, 2009. Since then, the group has released two
extended plays ,
2NE1
and
2NE1 2nd Mini Album , and one studio album,
To Anyone .
Fans of 2NE1 call themselves " Blackjacks ", a reference to the card game
Blackjack . Pre-debut The group was first mentioned by the press in late 2008,
YG Entertainment
announced that the group would consist of four members and debut sometime in May 2009.
The company stated that the group had trained for 4 years, and that their debut album would contain songs produced by
1TYM
Leader Teddy Park.
The group's name was initially announced as "21"; however, due to the
discovery of a singer with the same name, the group was quickly renamed
"2NE1". 2009: Debut In collaboration with
Big Bang , 2NE1's first song was " Lollipop ", digitally released on March 27, 2009. The song was created for
LG
to promote their Cyon phone. The music video debuted on March 28, 2009. Although it was not a promoted single because it was an advertisement (there were problems with network chart eligibility), "Lollipop" went to number one on various online charts and topped the online chart of music television network
Mnet
for four weeks in a row.
On April 30,
YG Entertainment
CEO
Yang Hyun Suk
revealed that 2NE1's debut song would be a
hip-hop
and
reggae
song, and that it would be digitally released on May 6, 2009. Titled "Fire", the song was written and produced by
1TYM 's
Teddy Park . Teasers of the song were released on their official website at the beginning of May, with a 20-second clip released on May 1.
" Fire "
was released as planned on May 6, with two versions of the music video —
a "space" version and a "street" version — released the same day. During the first 24 hours, the videos received over one million views. The group's first performance of the song was on May 17, 2009, on
SBS 's
Inkigayo , beginning the group's activities. Both the song and the group became popular online:
Fire
topped Mnet's online chart and 2NE1 became a popular search term. The group was awarded three
Cyworld
Digital Music Awards; "Lollipop" and "Fire" both won "Song of the Month" and the group won "Rookie of the Month" for May 2009. 2NE1 received their first Mutizen award after their fourth stage performance in SBS
Inkigayo
(Popular Song) on June 14, 2009. They received their second Mutizen award on SBS
Inkigayo
on June 21, 2009. Two days afterwards, 2NE1 signed a deal with
Fila
to become the models for the new commercial campaign.
" I Don't Care " was released as the second single on July 1, 2009, with promotions starting in early July.
Yang Hyun Suk
stated that the song would demonstrate a softer, more feminine image. A
reggae
version of "I Don't Care" was performed on
SBS 's
Inkigayo , signaling the end of promotions for the song.
However, due to the remix's popularity, it was released to digital
outlets on September 3, 2009, and became their next digital single.
Along with three other groups representing Korea, 2NE1 performed in the
6th
Asia Song Festival
in September 2009, where they received the 2009's "Asian Newcomer's Award." 2010: Return to group activities, and
To Anyone On February 9, 2010, without previous notice, " Follow Me " ( Korean : "날 따라해봐요", " Nal ddara haebwayo ") was released to digital outlets and used as a theme song for
Samsung
Corby Folder.
Over the summer, 2NE1 traveled to
Los Angeles
and
London
in order to record English songs for a possible American debut with
The Black Eyed Peas
member
will.i.am . So far, group has recorded 10 songs.
YG Entertainment CEO
Yang Hyun Suk
stated that the girls are planned to debut sometime in 2011, after
The Black Eyed Peas ' global tour and 2NE1's own activities in Korea and Japan.
The first studio and full length album,
To Anyone , was released on September 9, 2010 and was a huge success.
The album contains 12 tracks including three title songs, namely " Clap Your Hands " ( Korean : "박수 쳐"), " Go Away " and " Can't Nobody ", which were promoted simultaneously. 2NE1 won first place on Mnet
M! Countdown
for "Clap Your Hands" on the day of their comeback, followed by a K-Chart win the next day on
KBS
Music Bank
for "Go Away", and a Mutizen a week after their
SBS
Inkigayo
comeback for "Can't Nobody." Overall, 2NE1 won first place eleven times on various music shows.
To promote the album, the group made its first entertainment show appearance as a group on KBS variety-talk show
Win Win . 2NE1 also aired the second season of 2NE1 TV.
On October 21, Yang Hyun Suk announced that 2NE1 would be releasing a follow up song on October 31, later revealed to be " It Hurts (Slow) " ( Korean :
"아파" ). It was first performed on SBS
Inkigayo . The music video is directed by Kim Hye Jung, the same director for
G-Dragon 's " Butterfly ." The music video was released on November 1 and was themed for
Halloween .
In addition, on October 28, it was revealed that 2NE1's official record label in Japan will be
Avex , and that
To Anyone
would be re-released in Japan on December 8, 2010. However, the release was delayed to an indefinite time. The group also promoted in Thailand, where
To Anyone
released on October 28, 2010. On November 26, 2NE1 released the single "Don't Stop the Music" as a "special gift for Thai fans". 2011: International expansion, and Korean Comeback with
Ugly Originally, 2NE1's Japanese debut was planned for December 2010, but
this was delayed to September 2011, with singles releasing throughout
the summer. 2NE1's American promotions with
will.i.am
of the
Black Eyed Peas
has no set time for release yet, because of the Black Eyed Peas' album release of
The Beginning
and subsequent touring.
On January 19, " Can't Nobody
(English Version)" was released on Recochoku as
ringtones
and
ringback tones .
On February 2, the "Can't Nobody (English Version)" music video was
made available for download through iTunes Japan. On February 22, Avex
announced that 2NE1 will release their Japanese debut single " Go Away ", previously used as a Korean promotional single, as a
ringtone
on March 9, 2011. On March 16, the group released
2NE1 , their first extended play, in Japan, with no promotions because of the earthquake. It debuted at number twenty four on the
Oricon
charts, selling 3,860 copies. It was later announced to be the theme song of Japanese television program
Mezamashi TV . 2NE1 planned to make their official Japanese live debut on
Music Station , but have since postponed their debut because of the
2011 Tōhoku earthquake .
2NE1 participated in the Naver "Pray for Japan" campaign alongside many
other Korean celebrities, helping to raise funds for earthquake
victims.
On April 18, 2NE1 announced their Korean comeback plans, pushing their mini-album
Ugly' s promotions forward, from July to April. Member Park Bom's solo project was unveiled on April 21; after Park Bom sang an acoustic version of
Don't Cry
on YG on Air, leader
CL
said a new Korean single called " Lonely " would be released May 12, 2011. A behind-the scenes-of
Lonely
was shown on the second episode of YG on Air, and the music video of
Lonely
premiered May 11, 2011. On June 24, 2NE1 released a single produced by
Teddy Park
at midnight, titled
I Am The Best .
Within 24 hours of release, "I Am The Best" topped all the major Korean
charts, except for Monkey3 where the song was ranked second. As the day
progressed, the song ultimately became first and certified as a
"perfect all-kill".
On July 21, 2NE1 released their animated music video, "Hate You" (which
was originally called Fuck You, but was changed due to the language),
directed by Mari Kim, which also topped all major Korean charts. On July
28, along with the release of the full mini-album, the single "UGLY"
and its music video were released, and again Ugly topped all major
Korean charts. 2NE1 made a perfect all-kill with their new album as all
singles released topped all major Korean charts.
Promotions for 2NE1's Korean comeback are scheduled to end around
late August. Following the end of promotions, 2NE1 will have their first
solo concert at the Olympic Hall in the Chamsil Olympic Park on August
26, 27 and 28 in Seoul, South Korea.
After concluding Korean promotions for
Ugly , 2NE1 will make their official debut in Japan in September. Prior to this, 2NE1 has released Japanese versions of "I Am The Best", "Hate You", and "Ugly." Musical styles In 2NE1's debut EP
2NE1 , the group was noted to have a distinct, mixed style. While " Lollipop " was categorized as for
pop , debut single " Fire " is predominately influenced by
hip hop . " I Don't Care ," however, was intended as a song with a
reggae
feel.
Their comeback album,
To Anyone , was marked by a strong shift into electronic music. " Go Away ", the most successful promotional single from the album, is classified as
dance . However, songs like " It Hurts (Slow) " are
R&B , another style that also characterized their first EP. The three title tracks, " Clap Your Hands ," "Go Away," and " Can't Nobody " were noted for their lasting impressions, as they topped music charts weeks after release.
Thematically, 2NE1's music explores independence and female empowerment, such as in songs like "Go Away" and "I Don't Care". Image
2NE1 is known for a "unique and edgier style". During their debut single, the group was noted for being "hip-hop warriors" and the female counterpart to
Big Bang
but changed this perception with "I Don't Care" into strong, feminine women. During the "It Hurts (Slow)" music video, the members were noted for their gothic, black attire and strange hair and wigs. Influences
The 2NE1 cited different girl groups influences like
Destiny's Child .
Park Bom , lead vocalist, cited
American
singers
Christina Aguilera ,
Kelly Rowland ,
Beyoncé
and
Mariah Carey
as her main influences because of their strong vocals and powerful
performances. She has listed hip hop and R&B as her favorite music
genres. Youngest member
Minzy
cited famous entertainer
Michael Jackson , while leader
CL
said producer
Teddy Park
and
American
entertainers
Madonna
and
Lauryn Hill
are her role models. [ 57 ]
Dara
states that singer
Uhm Jung Hwa
is her inspiration. Television 2NE1TV
(2009) 2NE1TV Season 2 (2010) 2NE1TV LIVE:WORLDWIDE (SEASON 3) (2011–present) Awards and recognition When the group debuted, their song " Fire "
and the subsequent live performances were dubbed unconventional and
impressive. They won many awards on the weekly music shows, such as
The Music Trend
and
Music Bank . "Fire" also brought them the Song of the Month and Rookie of the Month awards for May. " I Don't Care " brought them similar success and recognition and led 2NE1 to win the Song of the Year award at the 2009
Mnet Asian Music Awards . The same year, the group earned Cyworld Digital Music Awards for Top
Selling Artist, Best Rookie Group, Bonsang Award, and Best Song for "I
Don't Care". The group was also nominated at the 2009
Golden Disk Awards
for the Popularity Award, Rookie Award, and the Digital Bonsang. [ citation needed ]
At the Melon Music Awards, the group was one and the only rookie of the Top 10 artists in
South Korea
and the Best New Artist.
They won This Year’s Stage, This Year's Album, This Year's Song on 2009
GQ Awards. They received 4 out of 10 nominations on Rhythmer Awards
2009 including Rookie of the Year, R&B Artist of the Year, R&B
Single of the Year for "I Don't Care" and R&B Album of the Year for
their 1st Mini Album. Rhythmer.net is famous for hip-hop and R&B
promotion for both mainstream and underground Korean music.
2NE1 won their first Artist of the Year and Album of the Year award for
To Anyone
at the 2010 Mnet Asian Music Awards, in addition to awards for Best Female Group and Best music video for " Can't Nobody ". Source : Wikipedia ¸.•’★¸.•’★*•~-.¸-★-,.-~*¸.•’★¸​.•’★¸.•’★¸.•’★*•~-.¸-★-,.-~*¸.•’★*•~-.¸ Members : CL
(이채린) Position:
Leader, Rapper, Vocalist Real Name:
이채린 (Lee ChaeRin) Nickname(s):
cL (Her english initials of real name), Faith (English name) Birthdate:
Febuary 26 1991 Height:
162 cm Blood Type:
A Religion:
Catholic Skills:
Rap, sing, dance, lyrics, French, English, Japanese Interests:
Fashion, music, dance, Black, White Other Features/Collaborations:
YMGA (Made in R.O.K – What), Big Bang (Hot Issue – Intro), Um JungHwa (D.I.S.C.O – DJ), G-Dragon (Heartbreaker – The Leaders) Performances:
YG Family Stage (SBS Gayodaejeon, December 2007), Um JungHwa (MBC Countdown, July 2008) Minzy
(민지 ) Position:
Rap, Vocal, Lead Dance Real Name:
공민지 (Gong MinJi) Nickname(s):
Minzy Birthdate:
January 18 1994 Height:
161 cm Blood Type:
O Religion:
Christian Skills:
Dance, rap, sing, lyrics, compose, Chinese, Japanese Interests:
Music, pink Trivia:
Youngest of the group. Granddaughter of one of Korean’s
famous dancer, Gong Ok Jin. YG discovered her through a dance audition
video on the internet. Originally was supposed to debut with ex-YG
trainee May Doni, who left YG Family for another record label. Experience:
2004 Suwon Migliore Dance Contest Award, 2004 Gwangju Kkijjang Dance Contest Award Park Bom
(박봄 ) Position:
Lead Vocal Real Name:
박봄 (Park Bom) Nickname(s) : Jenny (English name) Birthdate:
March 24 1984 Height:
165 cm Blood Type:
AB Religion:
Christian Skills:
Piano, flute, cello, English, Japanese Interests:
Music, green, pink, red Other Features/Collaborations:
Big Bang (1st Single –
We Belong Together, 3rd Single – Forever With You), Lee HyoRi (AnyStar),
Lexy (Rush – Baby Boy), Red Roc (Hello – Unknown Artist), Kim JiEun
‘Tell Me Once More’ Music Video Performances:
Big Bang’s First Showcase (September
2006), Big Bang’s First Concert ‘The Real’ (December 2006), Samsung
AnyCall Music Drama ‘AnyStar’ Showcase (December 2006), Big Bang’s
Nationwide Tour Concert ‘Want You’ (May 2007) Park Sandara
( 박산다라 ) Position:
Vocal
Real Name:
박산다라 (Park Sandara)
Nickmame(s):
Dara
Birthdate:
November 12 1984
Height:
165 cm
Blood Type:
A
Religion:
None/Atheist
Skills:
Sing, dance, act, mc, Philippine
(Tagalog), English, Chinese
Interests:
Music, internet, pink
Trivia:
Before debuting in Korea, she was a popular
celebrity in the Philippines. 1st runner up of a Philippine contest
called ‘Star Circle Quest’ in 2004 and became popular since then.
TV Appearances:
My Name is Sandara Park (October 2004), Iljimae Returns (Episode 7, January 2009)
Other Features/Collaborations:
Gummy ‘I’m Sorry’ Music Video Source : wikipedia For the TOP #3 is.......2PM....!!!! pUt yOur Hands uP!!!!! 2PM
is a
South Korean
boy band , originally a seven-member group, but currently consisting of six members due to the sudden contract termination of leader
Jaebeom
following an Internet controversy in September 2009. They are managed by
JYP Entertainment . The current members are Junsu, Junho,
Nichkhun ,
Taecyeon ,
Wooyoung
and
Chansung .
2PM is one of the two subgroups branched out from the eleven-member
(before Jaebeom's departure) boy band One Day, the other being
2AM . They debuted with the song "10 Jeom Manjeome 10 Jeom" ( 10점 만점에 10점 , lit.
10 Points Out of 10 Points ), which showcased their acrobatic dance styles. They achieved their first No. 1 song with "Again & Again". Pre-Debut
The members of 2PM all auditioned (except Nichkhun, who was scouted) to become part of JYP Entertainment, to which the
Wonder Girls
&
2AM
also belong. Some members held their auditions in other countries; for
example, Park Jaebeom auditioned in the United States. Other members
already had experience in the entertainment industry prior to their
acceptance into JYP Entertainment, such as Kim Junsu, who had won
various singing competitions, and Ok Taecyeon, Lee Junho and Hwang
Chansung, who had participated in the show 'SuperStar Survival'.
2PM's and
2AM 's training days were filmed in a documentary called
Hot Blood Men ,
which aired on Mnet. The show documented the time by time training
program of the JYP trainees who were to be part of the group "One Day",
as well as the elimination of three trainees from the group during the
time.
2008: Debut and early success
Unlike other Korean record labels, their record label
JYP Entertainment
opted to promote them with a more mature than "pretty-boy" (in Korean
ggotminam ) image.
2PM debuted with their single " 10 Jeom Manjeome 10 Jeom " ( 10점 만점에 10점 ,
lit. 10 Points Out Of 10 Points) on September 4, 2008. On October 17,
2008, they began promotion of "Only You", another song from their debut
mini album "Hottest Time of the Day."
On April 16, 2009, the group released their second mini album
2:00PM Time For Change , which they began promoting on April 23. On May 9, 2009, they won their first Mutizen Song award on
M!Countdown
since their debut; in the same week, they won their second Mutizen on SBS
Inkigayo .
The group earned their third Mutizen the following week, completing the
triple crown and making them ineligible to win for the following weeks.
However, the award that had been eluding them -
Music Bank
- was quickly won soon after. On June 11, 2PM began promotions for "Niga Mipda" ( 니가 밉다 , lit.
I Hate You ) on
M!Countdown . On July 2 and 3, 2PM achieved first place on the
M!Countdown
and
Music Bank
charts for the song "Niga Mipda". They achieved the triple crown for the song on
M!Countdown
by July 16. On July 30, 2PM won the 'Only One Song' award on M!Countdown.
2009: Controversy and rise to prominence
On September 4, 2009, articles surfaced on the internet regarding Jaebeom's posts from 2005 on his personal
Myspace
account, in which he expressed his dislike for Korea while still a trainee for
JYP Entertainment . Jaebeom issued an apology regarding this matter. Although outraged protesters demanded that Jaebeom should be forced out of 2PM, JYP Entertainment CEO
Park Jin-young
stated on September 7 that he was going to continue to remain part of the group.
The following day, Jaebeom announced on his official fancafe that he
would be leaving the group and returning to the United States, with
plans of going back to school and bettering his understanding of music,
and also apologized to the other 2PM members for not being a good leader
and older brother to the group. Park Jin-young has confirmed that he will respect the singer's decision, and that 2PM will continue on as a 6-member group.
Additionally, due to the sensitive topic of Jaebeom's departure, all
2PM members were withdrawn from their regular appearances on variety
shows.
The group finished re-filming their music video for "Heartbeat", the
title song of their first full-length album, without Jaebeom on October
31, 2009. During a press conference, it was revealed that Jaebeom's
vocals would not be removed from the songs.
The day after the now 6-member 2PM's full-length album was released,
Park Jin-young released a statement that Jaebeom would return as a
member of 2PM if he wanted to make a comeback, while indicating that his
return was not imminent.
In further support of Jaebeom's place in the group, the six 2PM members
have also decided to distribute their income from their 1st album with
him, sending him an equally divided amount of the earnings.
The group's first full length album, titled
1:59PM , was released on November 10, 2009. Both the album and title track, "Heartbeat", quickly rose to the #1 position on multiple music sales charts.
The group made their first comeback performance, signifying the
beginning of their promotional activities for the album, on M.Net's ‘O
Good Concert’ on Thursday, November 12, 2009,
subsequently making their KBS Music Bank, MBC Music Core and SBS
Inkigayo comebacks on Friday, November 13, Saturday, November 14 and
Sunday, November 15, respectively.
On November 20, 2009, 2PM performed at and was honored with two awards by the
M.net Asian Music Awards
(previously known as M.net KM Music Festival): the award for Best Male
Group and Artist of the Year (the latter being one of the three most
prestigious awards, or "Daesang"s, at the show, which also include Song
of the Year and Album of the Year).
The group paid homage to him during their performance of "Again &
Again", in which a spotlight was shown over Jaebeom's usual position in
the dance formation and his vocals were not replaced.
On November 26, 2009, after two weeks of promotional activities for
the 1:59PM album, 2PM earned their first #1 on a TV music show (KBS
Music Bank's "K-Chart") since the album's release, with "Heartbeat",
which went on to take #1 on the K-Chart for three more weeks. In
addition, "Heartbeat" achieved the "Mutizen" song award Triple Crown on
SBS
Inkigayo
by being the #1 song the Inkigayo "Take 7" chart for three weeks, the
maximum amount of time for which a nominated song is eligible to win. On
December 30, 2009, at
Korean Broadcasting System
(KBS)'s end of the year Music Festival, "Again & Again" was recognized as "Song of the Year", winning with 57,060 votes.
2PM followed up end-of-2009 activities with the second single off of
1:59PM album, "Tired of Waiting". The song was performed live for the
first time at the SBS Music Festival on December 29, 2009. 2PM's
promotion for the album ended with their SBS Inkigayo performance on
January 17, 2010. 2010 - Present On February 25, 2010, JYP Entertainment announced that
Park Jaebeom
would not be returning to 2PM, as his contract with the company had been permanently terminated.
A fan meeting/press conference was held two days later with the 6
remaining members of 2PM and JYP Entertainment CEO Choi Jungwook in
attendance, where it was announced that although 2PM would continue
promoting as 6 members, a new leader would not be chosen to replace
Park.
In mid-April 2010, 2PM released image and video teasers for their third single
Don't Stop Can't Stop , for which the group promised to showcase an even stronger side of themselves than before. The EP, containing six tracks, was released on April 19, 2010. The lead single,
Without U , quickly rose to the #1 position on 6 different music charts. The group made their television performance comeback on Mnet's music program
M! Countdown
on April 22, 2010.
2PM has been confirmed as the opening act for their label-mates, popular girl group
Wonder Girls
for 9 shows on the latter's United States headlining summer tour.
2PM also performed at the 8th annual Korea Times Music Festival in Los
Angeles, California on May 1, 2010, and at the Dream Concert in Seoul,
South Korea on May 22, 2010.
On May 24, 2010, 2PM released the song "What's Your Celebration?" for the
FIFA 2010 World Cup . The song samples
K'Naan 's
Wavin' Flag .
On July 11th, Taecyeon & Wooyoung left the position of MCs at SBS
Inkigayo. And a while after, on August 2nd, Wooyoung also left Winwin
to concentrated on 2PM's busy schedule. Then they have prepared so hard
for their 1st concert in Seoul & Busan. The 1st concerts took place
on July 31st, August 1st (in Seoul) & August 7th, 8th (in Busan)
(2AM & missA were invited as the guests of the concert).
2PM's first concerts were ended successfully with the number of
12,000 people (not only are Korean, but also come from Japan, Taiwan,
China & Thailand) attended each day. In these concerts, 2PM
performed in turn all their hit-songs since 2008. Also, the memebers put
their impressive solo performances on the stage; which attracted a lot
attention. The concerts ended with the song "THANK YOU" written by 2PM.
2PM sent the messages to all fans, who always stand by them &
support them no matter what. Towards these concerts, 2PM proved how they
improved & how they passed through together with their fans,
Hotttest. After the success of first concert, JYPE has informed that 2PM
will have two encore concerts in Seoul on September 4th & 5th to
celebrate their 2nd anniversary.
On October 11, 2010, 2PM released their fourth
extended play ,
Still 2:00PM , with the lead single "I'll Be Back" staying at number one for two consecutive weeks in the
Music Bank . On November 1, 2010,
Still 2:00PM
debuted unexpectedly on the 13th spot of the
Billboard's World Album-Chart
though no specific promotions for the album were made in the US.
On March 6, 2011, it was announced that 2PM will release their
Japanese Debut-Single "Take Off" on May 18, which was also featured as
an Ending Song for the
Blue Exorcist
anime series.
Due to the major online pre-order of the limited version A, regular
version and limited version B of the single, "Take Off" has ranked from
No. 1 to 3, respectively, on the pre-order chart of
Tower Records Japan .
It has also reached No.1 in the USEN's J-Pop Chart. 2PM is the first
Korean band that has reached that spot in this particular chart.
After 2PM's brief venture to the Japanese music market, JYP
Entertainment released a set of publicity photos of the band along the
tracklist of their upcoming second studio album entitled "Hands Up" on
June 12, 2011. One day later,
MTV Korea
announced the release date of the album as June 20. Overseas activities Thailand
2PM made their first overseas performance in Thailand in late
February 2009 at the Nine Entertain Awards. On June 25, they released
their "Thailand Special Edition" album, and began promotions in Thailand
shortly afterward. 2PM also performed at the Pop Music Awards in
Pattaya.
China
2PM advanced into the Chinese market on November 25, 2009 as they met
with their Chinese fans at the 2009 Hanryu showcase (Korea-China Music
Festival), held in Shanghai, China. 2PM planned to gradually enter the
market through promotions and the release of their first full album.
Malaysia & Philippines
JYPE released 2PM first full album 1:59 in Malaysia and Philippines through Sony Music Malaysia and Philippines.
Japan
Their popularity among Japanese fans has grown tremendously since the
release of their first official album, 1:59 PM—a 2PM Café just opened
up in Shibuya, and all last week, 2PM stole the top five spots on the
widely-known Japanese ringtone site called
Recochoku .
Furthermore, the KPop group released their first ever DVD entitled,
Hottest, which showcases their entire music video collection as well as
some photo shoot footage and a general history of them becoming 2PM. A
sneak preview of Hottest was held in Ginza before the release, and the
excitement was a sure sign of the product's imminent success, as over
1,000 fans attended the event. The DVD was then available for purchase
beginning November 23 and quickly hit number two on the
Oricon
charts. Now, on the second day of sales, it has been reported that the DVD it at #1. Other activities Television hosting
In December 2008, 2PM began to host the third season of MBC's
Idol Show
(아이돌군단의 떴다!그녀). The segment ran from December 4, 2008 to March 26, 2009, with a total of seventeen episodes.
The group also starred in a reality show on M.net, titled "Wild
Bunny", in which the members escaped the pressures of stardom by
performing ten forbidden activities of idols. The show ran from July 21,
2009 to September 1, 2009, with seven episodes aired; the airing of the
final episode, which coincidentally featured the members engaged in a
"Leader Olympics" game to select a new leader, was postponed
indefinitely due to Jaebeom's internet controversy and his subsequent
departure from the group.
In addition, Taecyeon and Wooyoung are hosting SBS ( Seoul Broadcasting System )'s weekly music show
Inkigayo ,
while Jaebeom and Chansung have also made regular appearances on
'Introducing Star Friends'. Since Jaebeom was voted off, Nichkhun
replaced his position as the guest. Nichkhun and Wooyoung were also
frequent guests on SBS's variety talent show
Star King
between April and October 2009, with the other 2PM members occasionally joining them.
Recently, Taecyeon became a permanent cast member of the second season of
Family Outing , a celebrity variety show airing on SBS. Wooyoung is also now a co-host of the
KBS
celebrity talk show
Win Win . In March 2010, Junho returned as a permanent cast member of the sports variety show
Dream Team 2 ,
also on KBS, for which he was part of the pilot episode in September
before having to withdraw due to Jaebeom's controversy. In June 2010,
Nichkhun signed on to be a part of the popular
MBC
celebrity reality show
We Got Married , where he will act as a make-believe husband to
Victoria
(of Korean girl group
f(x)
fame).
Endorsements
In March 2009, 2PM was selected to model for
EXR , a clothing company in Korea.
In July 2009, the members of 2PM were selected as the representatives
of foreign artists by the Thai government-led tourism campaign,
I Love Thailand.
Member Nichkhun has also been selected by the Tourism Authority of
Thailand (TAT) as the face of their newest campaign, "Come to Thailand;
Let's Take a Break!"
In August 2009, 2PM collaborated with the Body Shop in 'Soft Hands,
Kind Heart', a worldwide campaign that calls for the protection of
children and teenagers against sex trafficking. The members will act as
Korea's spokespeople for the campaign.
In late October 2009, a commercial film (CF) of 2PM promoting Hanami
(a Thailand snack company) was released, which also included Jaebeom;
the commercial was said to be filmed prior to his departure in
September.
November 2009 saw multiple new endorsement deals for the group,
the first of which being a commercial and print campaign for Market O's
"Real Brownie" pastry. Shortly thereafter, the group endorsed the
Samsung
Corby mobile phone, one of the newest mobile devices in Samsung's
popular "Anycall" series, both on television and on the Samsung website. 2PM is also currently endorsing
Paris-Croissant Food Company 's
Paris Baguette bakery franchise, for which the group recorded a special
Christmas song and are featured in a series of commercials with popular
Korean actress
Kim Tae Hee .
In 2010, 2PM has signed on to endorse Coca-Cola as well as the clothing company SPRIS (also known as PONY).
Members Nichkhun, Taecyeon, Junsu and Wooyoung endorse Cass Beer, and
Nichkhun has continued advertising for the Suzuki Jelato motorcycle in
Thailand. In addition, 2PM now endorses
Calvin Klein
South Korea, as well as, most recently, It's Skin, a South Korean cosmetics and skin care brand.
In mid-2010, 2PM has been chosen along
Girls' Generation
to be the spokesperson for
Caribbean Bay . Shortly after, the members of 2PM (expect for
Nichkhun ) were chosen to sing the song "Fly to Seoul (Boom Boom Boom)" to support tourism in Korea. Due to renewal of their endorsement deal with
Samsung , 2PM recorded the song "Nori For U" for
Samsung Anycall NORi . Dance style 2PM's performances consist of a combination of
hip hop dance
and acrobatics onstage, as shows in their performances of "10 points
out of 10 points". All of the members are trained in dancing, acrobatics
and singing. Members : Junsu
( 준수 ) (born January 15, 1988), full name Kim Junsu ( 김준수 ), was born in
Daegu , South Korea. Prior to singing, Junsu had entered and won various poem- and song-writing contests. He originally auditioned for YG Entertainment, where he befriended G-Dragon and Tae Yang of
Big Bang . He was accepted into both YG & JYP Entertainment, but chose to take the path of JYP in his final decision. Nickhun ( 닉쿤 ) (born June 24, 1988), full name Nichkhun Buck Horvejkul ( นิชคุณ หรเวชกุล ), is an American citizen of
Thai
and
Chinese
descent. He was born in
Rancho Cucamonga, California .
He spent his childhood in Thailand and California and studied abroad in
New Zealand. He returned to the States for high school at
Los Osos High School
and was scouted by a JYP talent agent in
Hollywood, California
while he was attending the Korean Music Festival in Los Angeles.
Taecyeon ( 택연 ) (born December 27, 1988), full name Ok Taecyeon ( 옥택연 ), was born in
Seoul , South Korea. As a young child, Taecyeon (along with his family) moved to
Bedford, Massachusetts , where his parents and older sister still currently reside. He originally auditioned for JYP Entertainment in
New York City
to become a model. Taec was also on the same audition show as Junho and
Chansung, Superstar Survival, but was the first contestant to leave the
show. He featured in "Yes I'm In Love" by
Bada
on her 4th album and
Baek Ji Young 's 2009 song "My Ear's Candy" ( 내 귀에 캔디 ). He hosted
SBS 's music show
Inkigayo
with Wooyoung, and was a permanent cast member on
Family Outing 2 . He debuted as an actor in the 2010 KBS drama series "신데렐라 언니" ( " Cinderella's Sister " ) alongside
Moon Geun Young
and
Chun Jung-myung . Wooyoung ( 우영 )
(born April 30, 1989), full name Jang Wooyoung ( 장우영 ), is from
Busan ,
Korea and was selected as a JYP trainee through MGoon's JYP auditions,
of which he won first place against 5,000 other candidates. Before
debuting in 2PM, Wooyoung filled in as a dancer partner with
Wonder Girls
member Kim Yubin when
TOP
from
Big Bang
fainted the day before the special performance with the
Wonder Girls
during the 2007 MBC Music Awards. Junho
( 준호 )
(born January 25, 1990), full name Lee Junho ( 이준호 ), is from
Ilsan ,
Korea
and signed a contract with JYP Entertainment after winning the "JYP's
Superstar Survival" talent search (which Taecyeon and Chansung were also
contestants in) in 2006, placing 1st out of 6,000 competitors. Due to
his looks, he is often compared with Korean entertainer
Rain) . Chansung ( 찬성 ) (Maknae)
(born February 11, 1990), full name Hwang Chansung ( 황찬성 ), acted in the Korean sitcom " Unstoppable High Kick "
prior to his debut with 2PM. Chansung participated in the same survival
game as Junho but lost. He auditioned a second time and was accepted
into the company. He rapped in
2AM 's song "To Her" ( 그녀에게 ). Former
Jaebeom( 재범 )
(born April 25, 1987, full name Park Jaebeom ( 박재범 ), was born and raised in
Seattle ,
Washington. Originally entering JYP Entertainment as a rapper and
b-boy, he trained for four years to improve his singing and Korean. It
was initially his mother who led him to apply as he wished to not attend
college, and Jin-Young Park (JYP) himself watched his audition and
brought him to Korea. He collaborated with Yeeun of
Wonder Girls
for "正" ( "Jeong" ) on the Han Sung Byul Gok OST. Due to his comments on his MySpace page, he left the group on September 8, 2009.
On February 25, 2010, JYP Entertainment announced that Jaebeom's contract was permanently terminated. Discography Studio albums
2009:
The First Album 1:59PM 2009:
Thailand Special Edition 2011:
2PM 2ND Album Hands Up
Extended plays
2009:
2:00PM Time For Change 2010:
Still 2:00PM
Single Album
2008:
Hottest Time of the Day 2008:
Only You (Winter Special) 2010:
Don't Stop Can't Stop
Japanese Discography
Single Album
2011:
Take Off 2011:
I'm Your Man
Compilation albums
2011: All About 2PM
DVD
2010:
Hottest: 2PM 1st Music Video Collection & The History 2011:
2PM 1st Concert in Seoul "Don't Stop Can't Stop Reality shows
Year
Title
2007
Hot Blood Men
2008
Idol Show
2009
Wild Bunny
2011
2PM Show!
IM A HOTTEST!!! Awawaw.... Let's See...who is the #4 in my own world??? =w= That's right...It's
CNBLUE !!!! CN Blue
( Korean :
씨엔블루
Japanese : シーエヌブルー ), stylized as
CNBLUE , are a South Korean
rock
band formed in
Seoul
in 2009. The band consists of
Jung Yong Hwa
(lead vocals, rhythm guitar),
Lee Jong Hyun
(lead guitar, vocals), Lee Jung Shin (bass guitar, vocals) and Kang Min
Hyuk (drums, vocals). "CN is an abbreviation of ‘Code Name’ while BLUE
is an abbreviation of the members’ individual images," said by one of
the members. ‘Burning’ represents Lee Jong Hyun, ‘Lovely’ represents
Kang Minhyuk, ‘Untouchable’ represents Lee Jung Shin, and ‘Emotional’
represents Jung Yong Hwa. Debuted on 19 August 2009 in
Japan
with the band's first
mini album ,
Now or Never . They were coined as the "2nd
FT Island ". The group released four teasers for their 1st album
Bluetory ,
starring one member per each of the videos in the sequence of Jonghyun,
Minhyuk, Jungshin and lastly, Yonghwa on the 6th, 8th, 11th and 13
January respectively. On 14 January, CN Blue debuted their first
mini-album with the lead single "I'm a Loner" ( Korean :
외톨이야 ). History 2009: Debut,
Now or Never , and
Voice
In mid-June 2009, CN Blue began to perform on the streets and in live clubs in Japan.
As an
indie band , they formally debuted on August 19, 2009 with
Now or Never . The mini album was recorded completely in English, and failed to chart on the
Japanese national music chart . Later, in November, the second extended play was released entitled
Voice .
Voice
peaked at position 227, and stayed on the Oricon for two weeks, and was
recorded mostly in English but also in Japanese. Also that year former
Bassist Kwon Kwang Jin left CN Blue in late September after the release
of CN Blue's first mini album. Kwang Jin was replaced by Lee Jungshin
later that year. 2010: Korean debut,
ThankU , and other activities In January, FNC Music unveiled new teaser pictures for CN Blue's debut in
South Korea .
Bluetory
was released on January 14, 2010. It stayed at the top of the
Gaon Chart
for two weeks. "I'm a Loner" ( Korean : 외톨이야)
was promoted as the title track. The song peaked at number two,
solidifying their break into the industry. The group had their first
televised live stage on
KBS
Music Bank
on January 15. Later, on January 29, the group won their first music show chart win on Music Bank.
The group debuted their new reality show on Korean music channel
Mnet, titled "CN Bluetory," on February 10. In March, the band started
preparations for their first full length album
ThankU . It was
released on March 20, 2010, with only one new track. The album peaked at
number 90 on the Oricon charts, their highest thus far. Later, in
April, their official fanclub name was announced as
BOICE , a combination
of "blue" and "voice."
CN Blue headed back to Korea in May and released their next promotional single, "Love Light" ( Korean :
사랑 빛 ),
on May 10, 2010. The song peaked at number 10 on the Korean national
chart and foreshadowed their upcoming release. On May 19, the second
extended play was released, named
Bluelove .
It was promoted with the track "Love," which charted at number 2,
matching the success the band found earlier with "I'm a Loner."
Bluelove
peaked at number 3, but stayed on the chart for many weeks. CN Blue held their comeback stage on M!Countdown the following day.
After success in Korea, the band headed back to Japan. They released
their first single "The Way" on June 23. For the first time, they
charted within the Oricon top 40 at number 26. The release was followed
by "I Don't Know Why" on September 16 the same year. The song reached
number eight on the Oricon daily chart, marking the first time the band
made it inside the top 10. On the weekly chart, they peaked at number
15. On the Japanese indie top chart, the band reached number one. The band embarked on a small tour across Japan in order to promote the single.
CN Blue members Kang Min Hyuk and Lee Jong Hyun will star in the
Korean movie "Acoustic." They released a song from the OST on October 7
entitled "High Fly" that peaked at number 98 on the Gaon Chart. 2011:
Re-maintenance
and
First Step On January 9, they released their 3rd Japanese single,
Re-maintenance. They started off their 2011 Japanese promotions with a
Zepp Tour in 4 cities: Osaka, Fukuoka, Nagoya and Tokyo from January
9–16.
FNC Music , their entertainment agency in South Korea, released teasers for a CN Blue comeback for February in 2011.
However, it was later changed to a March 21 release date.
The teaser was noted for having a "more of the same departure from their pop rock sound into a heavier concept." MEMBERS Yong Hwa
Full Name:
Jung Yong Hwa
(정용화) ( ジョン・ヨンファ ,
鄭容和 ) Date of Birth:
June 22, 1989
( 1989-06-22 )
(age 22) Position:
Leader, Rhythm Guitarist, Main Vocalist, Main Rapper Height:
180 cm Other:
Acted in SBS drama " You're Beautiful " and MBC drama " Heartstrings (TV series) ". Appeared on Variety Show " We Got Married ".
Jong Hyun
Full Name:
Lee Jong Hyun
(이종현) ( イ・ジョンヒョン ,
李宗泫 ) Date of Birth : May 15, 1990
( 1990-05-15 )
(age 21) Position:
Lead Guitarist, Vocalist Height:
182 cm Other:
Acted in movie "Acoustic" and former CN BLUE leader.
Min Hyuk
Full Name:
Kang Min Hyuk (강민혁) ( カン・ミンヒョク ,
姜敏赫 ) Date of Birth:
June 28, 1991
( 1991-06-28 )
(age 20) Position:
Drummer, Backing Vocalist Height:
184 cm Other:
Acted in SBS drama " It's Okay, Daddy's Girl ", movie "Acoustic", Orange Caramel's Magic Girl Music Video and played Yeo Jun Hee in MBC drama " Heartstrings (TV series) ".
Jung Shin
Full Name:
Lee Jung Shin (이정신) ( イ・ジョンシン ,
李正信 ) Date of Birth:
September 15, 1991
( 1991-09-15 )
(age 19) Position:
Bassist, Rapper, Backing Vocalist Height:
187 cm Other:
Acted in
4Minute 's Heart to Heart Music Video.
Former member
Kwon Kwang Jin (권광진) - Bassist, Backing Vocalist (2009) cONgrAtZZZZ CN BLUE!!!!! Im so Proud being a BOICE!!!! Last but not least.... The #5 Winner is...... MISS A .....!!!! Miss A
( Korean : 미쓰에이), commonly stylized as
miss A , is a
South Korean - Chinese
girl group
created by
JYP Entertainment
through their sub-label
AQ Entertainment .
As of 2011 miss A is considered one of the "strong four" (big four) South Korean girl bands, alongside
Girls' Generation ,
2NE1 , and
Kara .
Fei and Jia are considered two of the four best recognized female
celebrities of Chinese origin active in the South Korean entertainment
scene, along with
f(x) 's
Victoria Song
and fashion model
Wei Sun . History Pre-debut, JYP Sisters: Early activities in China
Members Fei and Jia were selected in 2007 (Fei was scouted on her way
to dance school, while Jia's school held auditions). Min auditioned
when she was in the 6th grade, and traveled to the U.S., where she
trained for 6 years, but came back in 2008 to continue activities in
Korea. During her time in New York, she studied at the
Repertory Company High School
in Manhattan.
She is known to be a trainee who has been training for a long time along with
Wonder Girls '
Sunye
and
2AM 's
Jo Kwon . Before their debut, members Fei and Jia appeared in
2PM 's "My Color" music video. Suzy Bae was also a model for an online shopping center.
Originally, miss A were a 5-member group in training in 2009. While still in training, the group flew to
China
where they appeared in numerous variety shows performing dance routines
and songs to showcase their talent to the Chinese audience. As the
group had no official name they were widely known to fans unofficially
as JYP Sisters or simply as "Sisters (시스터즈)". However the group had gone
through several changes during this period, most notably the exit of
Hyerim
who joined the
Wonder Girls , while two other girls decided to withdraw from the group.
JYPE
then decided to group the two remaining girls, Fei and Jia with JYPE South Korean trainee 16-year old, Suzy Bae.
The girls began their first official promotional activities in China
as a group by signing up with Samsung China and released a commercial
song called "Love Again" for the Samsung Beat Festival. The song has a
strong Korean team/influence behind it, as it was written by Korean
composer, Super Changddai while the music video was directed by Hong Won
Ki. The music video for the song made numerous hints to a possible
addition of a fourth member, Min who later on joined the group before
debuting in
South Korea . 2010: Debut in South Korea with "Bad Girl Good Girl" and "Step Up" Miss A made their official debut in South Korea as a four-member group on June 30 with their single " Bad Girl Good Girl " which was taken from their debut mini-album called " Bad but Good ".
The group and their debut single was well-received by the public and
critics alike. Their single topped various music charts and eventually
earned the group their very first
Mutizen
award on
M.net
M! Countdown
and the following day miss A became number #1 on
KBS
Music Bank . On August 1 they had their number #1 on
SBS
Inkigayo . The song went to #1 on
M.net
M! Countdown ,
KBS
Music Bank
and
SBS
Inkigayo
for only one consecutive weeks
.
The group later on made their comeback with their first mini-album called " Step Up " on September 26. The group promoted " Breathe "
as the lead single for the album and showed an "exotic and a doll-like
transformation" that was completely different from their debut single's
concept. They made their first comeback on
M.net
M! Countdown
and the following day on
KBS
Music Bank ,
MBC
Show! Music Core
and
SBS
Inkigayo . The song only went to #1 on
M.net
M! Countdown
and staying there for one consecutive weeks. The group concluded promotional activities on October 7. 2011: Solo activities and comeback Suzy starred in " Dream High " as the main character Go Hye Mi with
2PM 's
Taecyeon ,
2PM 's
Wooyoung ,
IU ,
T-ara 's
Eunjung
and actor
Kim Soo-hyun .
miss A member, Min, was a fixed student on KBS's variety show Oh! My
School, also known as 100 Out of 100. The show has since been cancelled.
Jia appeared in
M&D 's music video for "Close Your Mouth" with
FT Island 's
Hongki
&
B2ST 's
Jun Hyung
which is released on June 22, 2011.
After postponing their comeback which was meant for May 2011 after
the release of the single "Love Alone" in July 2011, miss A announced
their comeback with their first full album called
A Class
which was released on July 18, 2011. A week before their comeback, the audio teaser for their title track, " Good Bye Baby ",
was released on July 10, 2011. Afterwards, they released new music
video teasers for each of the members starting off with Min on July 11,
Fei on July 12, Jia on July 13, and Suzy on July 14. On July 15, the
album cover and tracklist were revealed for their album.
A Class , their first full length album, consists of a mix of previously released hits and four new tracks, including the single, " Good Bye Baby ".
The album has a total of 13 songs. They released their album digitally
at 12:00am on July 18, 2011. The songs from the album have already
started charting on the Korean charts.
Members Wang Feifei
( Hangul : 왕페이페이
Hanja : 王霏霏) also known as
Fei
was born April 27, 1987
( 1987-04-27 )
(age 24)
in
Haikou ,
Hainan ,
China
is the Main Vocalist . She speaks Mandarin, Cantonese, Korean, and minimal English.
Meng Jia
( Hangul : 멍지아
Hanja : 孟佳) also known as
Jia
was born February 3, 1989
( 1989-02-03 )
(age 22)
in
Hunan ,
China
she is the Vocalist, Lead Dancer and Rapper of the group. She speaks Mandarin, Korean, and minimal English.
Lee Min Young
( Hangul : 이민영
Hanja : 李敏英) also known as
Min
was born June 21, 1991
( 1991-06-21 )
(age 20)
in
Seoul ,
Korea
is a Lead Vocalist and Main Dancer. She speaks fluent Korean and
English. She was a JYP USA trainee for 8 years, and collaborated with
American producer Jonathan Smith also known as ( Lil Jon ).
She joined the group shortly before their official debut in South Korea
in 2010. She was supposed to be in a band with SECRET's Ji Eun and
SiSTAR's Hyorim, however things did not work out.
Bae Suzy
( Hangul : 배수지
Hanja : 裴秀智) also known as
Suzy
and
Su-ji
was born October 10, 1994
( 1994-10-10 )
(age 16)
in
Gwangju ,
Korea
is the Vocalist. She speaks Korean, minimal English, and minimal Mandarin. She was the lead actress in the 2011 drama
Dream High
as Go Hye Mi. She joined miss A shortly before embarking on their first
official pre-debut activities in China as Samsung Anycall commercial
models in 2010.
Posted by
TheBlackPearlStar
at
Tuesday, September 13, 2011
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share to Pinterest
Labels:
2NE1 ,
2PM ,
Big Bang ,
CN Blue ,
Kpop Zone ,
Miss A
Reactions:
No comments:
Post a Comment
Newer Post
Older Post
Home
Subscribe to:
Post Comments (Atom)
어서 오세요..내 블로그에 방문을 즐길 수..^^
Myspace Graphics
Who Am I...
TheBlackPearlStar
My name is Lee Hyo Sun...4 the future still Lee Hyo Sun..^^v
just an ordinary gurlz..love listen de music..fashion holic...kpop freakz..have a lot of dream..
Jonen V.I.P imnida..◕‿◕
Too Fast To Live, Too Young To Die..~G-Dragon~
View my complete profile
Add Me...^^
Hyo Sun Agassi Create Your Badge
My Facebook
My Twitter
Recent Posts
Loading...
Popular Posts
Sistar's Hyorin - Memories in Immortal Songs 2
Lyric
Hangul +Romanization :
All the memories of hate and the lies
Don't you know eventually we'll pay the price
all the hop...
My TOP 5 BoyBand/ GirlBand/Band....
This is MY TOP 5 BOYBAND/ GIRLBAND/ BAND in South Korea.....( ˘ з˘ )♬♪ .. here we go...ε=ε=┏( >_<)┛
#1.....B.I.G BANG.....(Im VIPs, ...
It's Indeed, The Best Tropical Paradise...!!!!!
After i watched WGM Khuntoria Couple episode 60 yesterday, Im already fallin' in love with MALDIVES!!!!!!!
I have a dream, for my Honey...
HITZ, BoyBand INDONESIA....^^
Hitz is the only one BoyBand in Indonesia that i admit if they have a sense of music. The 1st time i heard
their debut song called 'yes...
Indonesian Art of Textile...Called "BATIK"....
Batik
is a cloth that traditionally uses a manual wax-resist dyeing
technique. UNESCO designated Indonesian batik as a Masterpiece of Oral...
Wanna dress like Shin Ji Hyun from '49 Days'?
For those who have watched the drama 49 Days
starring
Nam Gyu Ri as Shin Ji Hyun, you may have more than accidentally eyed
Nam Gyu Ri...
Cha Seung Won discusses acting in T-ara’s new music video
Earlier, we reported that
Cha Seung Won
was cast to play a major role in T-ara ‘s new music video .
On October 19th, the actor was on se...
The three volcanoes with the most powerful eruption in the history of the world
What is the Largest Volcanic Eruption in Recorded History?
* I got goosebumps...T^T
3. MOUNT KRAKATAU/KRAKATOA (Indonesia)
Krakatoa...
GD's Autograph
G-Dragon's Autograph
When i first saw this autograph...fortunately i'm falling in love...^^
So i tried for re-write the autogr...
The Cheoyongmu Dance
Cheoyongmu
is performed wearing the mask of Cheoyong, a fictional character from
the Silla kingdom (57 BC ~ 935...
Kpop News Source.....^^
JYP's Home...
Fashion..
LikE mE....^^
Ma World....
Cuteki
widget
KOrean wOrd Of tHe daY...^^
Blog Archive
►
2012
(10)
►
July
(10)
▼
2011
(254)
►
December
(14)
►
November
(19)
►
October
(109)
▼
September
(112)
The Real Wonder of The World, Wonderful INDONESIA
Sistar's Hyorin - Memories in Immortal Songs 2
BIGBANG and AGNES MONICA on MTV EMA 2011..!!!!!!!!...
JYJ’s ‘Get Out’ music video unleashed!
SNSD fills in temporarily for Song Ji Hyo on ‘Runn...
Performers revealed for ’2011 Hallyu Dream Concert...
2AM transforms into miss AM and performs “Goodbye ...
It's Indeed, The Best Tropical Paradise...!!!!!
My TOP 5 BoyBand/ GirlBand/Band....
Wardrobe Battle Royale: Kim Yuna vs. 2NE1′s Sandar...
Shampoo Secrets
How to Wear the Latest Hair Trend: Braids
Keep Your Long Hair Healthy and Beautiful
CNBLUE sells out 15,000 tickets for Yokohama conce...
Jang Geun Suk shuffle dances in Roppongi
More than 30,000 fans turned up for 3-day concert ...
YoonA’s ‘Genie’ uniform sold at 6.7 million Won
JYJ’s Park Yoochun Buys A Luxurious Villa In Hanna...
Eunhyuk dislikes girls wearing "belly pants"
Hyoyeon, “He is no longer my ideal type”
G.Na celebrated birthday with her family members!!...
Avril Lavigne-Wish You Were Here
2AM’s Jo Kwon poses with his puppy in a hanbok
Just how big is Shindong’s head?
The Cheoyongmu Dance
Jeju Chilmeoridang-yeongdeung-gut Shaman Ritual
Yeongsanjae Buddhist Ritual
Namsadang-nori Performance
Ganggangsullae Dance
The Gangneung Danoje Festival
The Pansori Epic Chant
The Royal Ancestral Ritual in the Jongmyo Shrine a...
Historic Villages of Korea; Hahoe and Yangdong
the 40 Royal Tombs of the Joseon Dynasty
Gochang, Hwasun and Ganghwa Dolmen Sites
Haeinsa Temple Janggyeong Panjeon Hall
Gyeongju Historic Areas
Bulguksa Temple and Seokguram Grotto
Hwaseong Fortress
Changdeokgung Palace
Jongmyo Shrine
Donguibogam, The Principles and Practice of Easter...
Uigwe, The Royal Protocols of The Joseon Dynasty
Jikii Simche Yojeol, The Second Volume of "Antholo...
Printing Woodblocks of The Tripitaka Koreana and M...
Seungjeongwon Ilgi, The Diaries of The Royal Secre...
Joseonwangjosillok, The Annals of The Joseon Dynas...
The Hunminjeongeum Manuscript
UNESCO World Heritage
Hanguk Eumak Music
Hanji Paper
Hanok House
Hanbok Clothing
Hansik Cuisine
Hangeul Alphabet
Han Style...^^
Songpyeon (Half-moon shape Rice Cake)
What is Chuseok???
Lee Min Ho greets fans for Chuseok
SNSD’s Hyoyeon reveals cute mistakes with her spee...
Adele-Someone Like YOU
G.Na-Top Girl
Gummy (feat. Bobby Kim) – Love Recipe
YG ENTERTAINMENT Invited LUDACRIS
Sistar's Hyorin is attracted with bad guy..
Big Bang's T.O.P has "1 MILLION DOLLAR" LEGS??
MBLAQ Lands in BRAZIL!!!
4Minute's Hyun Ah Confessed to......
DBSK unveils album jaket for "TONE"
SMTOWN LIVE in TOKYO-150.000 PEOPLE in 3 DAYS
2NE1, Japan Debut Concert-70.000 Tickets SOLD on t...
Davichi reflects on their latest comeback with “Do...
My SOULMATES and I...( ◦˘ з(◦'ںˉ◦)~♥
Classy Yuri Attended The Salvatore Ferragamo 2011 ...
Who are U-KISS’s rivals?
YG Entertainment surpasses SM Entertainment’s mid-...
Ki Tae Young reveals married life isn't all that d...
U-Know Yunho VS Minho, Same Bag, Completely Differ...
Khuntoria is SEPARATING....!!!
TOP 5 Pretty Female Idols!!!!
CN Blue Releases "IN MY HEAD" on October
KARA's "STEP" Plagiarized??
JYJ-In Heaven Album Tracklist
TVXQ to model for Lacoste and travel to New York
Girl’s Day Sojin’s ideal type is T.O.P?
Hold your Horse, G-Dragon NOT Returning in October...
Rain to Face Reinvestigation for Alleged Sharehold...
KARA Released STEP MV!!!
JYJ "In Heaven" MV Teaser Unleashed!!
f(x)'s Luna and Amber celebrates their 2nd Anniver...
2NE1′s CL scandalizes netizens for offensive langu...
Boom holds hands with both Goo Hara and Han Seungy...
Japanese fans feel the ‘Dream High’ fever at Saita...
Kim Tae Hee wears 10,000 dollars worth of jewelry ...
Leeteuk’s older sister to become a fixed guest on ...
JYJ to make Korean comeback this month, starting w...
Baek Ji Young attends 2PM concert with her boyfrie...
Jay Park unleashes “Demon” MV!
KARA releases full track for “Step”!
JYP Entertainment reassures that Taecyeon will be ...
►
2010
(7)
►
August
(7)
Labels
2AM
(6)
2NE1
(17)
2PM
(18)
49 Days
(1)
4Minute
(6)
A.N.JELL
(1)
Adele
(1)
After School
(4)
Agnes Monica
(2)
Arirang
(1)
Avril Lavigne
(1)
B1A4
(1)
B2ST
(5)
Baek Ji Young
(1)
Beauty in YOU
(3)
Beloved Poems
(9)
Bi Rain
(3)
Big Bang
(22)
BoA
(3)
Boyfriend
(3)
Brown Eyed Girls
(5)
C-Real
(1)
CN Blue
(5)
Concert
(7)
Culture
(34)
Dalgona
(1)
Davichi
(3)
DBSK
(12)
Endorsements
(4)
EXO
(1)
f(x)
(5)
Fashion
(10)
Favorite MV
(13)
Favorite Singers
(5)
Favorite Songs
(7)
Food
(1)
FT.Island
(3)
G-Dragon
(2)
G.Na
(6)
GDandTOP
(2)
Girl's Day
(1)
Gummy
(1)
Happy Birthday
(1)
Hello
(3)
Hitz
(1)
How to COok
(1)
Hyorin
(4)
Immortal Songs 2
(1)
Infinite
(2)
Inkigayo
(2)
Invincible Youth
(3)
IU
(8)
Jang Geun Suk
(3)
Jay Park
(1)
Jewelry
(1)
Jun. K
(3)
JYJ
(19)
Kan Mi Youn
(1)
Kang Ho Dong
(1)
KARA
(7)
Kim Hyun Joong
(4)
Kim Tae Hee
(1)
Kim Tae Woo
(1)
Kim Yuna
(1)
Korea Drama Awards
(1)
Kpop Zone
(190)
Lee Hyori
(1)
Lee Min Ho
(1)
Lee Seung Gi
(1)
LOL
(3)
Lyrics
(12)
MBLAQ
(6)
mine....
(1)
Miss A
(9)
MTV EMA 2011
(3)
Music
(62)
Music Bank
(2)
MV
(19)
My SoulMates....
(1)
Nam Gyu Ri
(1)
Paradise
(2)
Park Shin Hye
(1)
Photoshoot
(1)
Places
(2)
Radio Star
(1)
Rainbow
(1)
Rumor
(8)
Running Man
(2)
Scandal
(9)
Secret
(5)
SHINee
(4)
Sistar
(12)
SNSD
(35)
Star King
(1)
Strong Heart
(1)
Super Junior
(11)
T-Ara
(12)
T.O.P
(1)
U-Kiss
(3)
WGM
(3)
Wonder Girls
(5)
Wonderful Indonesia
(4)
Starlight's Visitors
Free counters
My Pageviews
My Followers
Lee Hyo Sun Noona. Picture Window template. Powered by
Blogger .