Sinopsis drama korea
Sinopsis drama korea
Fish
Selasa, 06 September 2011
This is a  Korean name ; the  family name  is  Kim .
Kim Tae-hee
Born March 29, 1980 (age 31) Ulsan ,  South Korea
Education B.A. Fashion design
Alma mater Seoul National University
Occupation Actress , Model
Years active 2001 – present
Height 1.65 m (5 ft 5 in)
Relatives Lee Wan  (brother)
Korean name
Hangul 김태희
Hanja 金泰希
Revised Romanization Gim Tae-hui
McCune–Reischauer Kim T'ae-hŭi
Kim Tae-hee  ( Korean : 김태희, born March 29, 1980) is a  South Korean  actress and model from Ulsan . She is best known for her roles in the TV series  My Princess ,  Iris ,  Love Story in Harvard and  Stairway to Heaven .
Kim began her career in entertainment as a model and in television commercials. She rose to stardom via her portrayal of Han Yoori, the evil stepsister in the popular  SBS  TV series  Stairway to Heaven . Her other TV projects include the supernatural  KBS  series  Forbidden Love  and the SBS campus romance  Love Story in Harvard  in which she plays a Harvard medical student. Both series were successful. For her performance in  Forbidden Love , she was honored with the Best Female Newcomer award.
Career
Her first starring role in a film was in  The Restless  with  Jung Woo-sung . The following year she appeared with  Sol Kyung-gu  in  Venus and Mars .
In 2009, she starred in the espionage action thriller  Iris  with  Lee Byung-hun , one of the most expensive dramas ever produced. It was a critical and commercial success with an average rating of 30% and nearly 40% for the final episode. ]  It was the top rated program every week after it’s debut. She also starred in the film  Grand Prix  opposite  Yang Dong-geun  where she portrays a horse jockey who dreams of winning the Grand Prix championship.
After the success of  Iris , she played the lead in the MBC romantic comedy  My Princess alongside  Song Seung-heon .  My Princess  began airing on January 5, 2011. She played Lee Seol, an ordinary college student who discovers that she is a princess.
She is well known for her natural beauty and has been dubbed "Korea's Most Beautiful Woman."
Endorsements
Kim is one of Korea's top CF stars and has been a spokesperson for popular brands such as  Cyon ,  Paris Baguette ,  LG ,  iriver ,  Hera ,  Ohui , Vivian ,  Daewoo Matiz ,  Klasse ,  SI ,  Samsung ,  Beans Avenue ,  Olympus ,  My House/Root ,  Crencia ,  KT Smard Card ,  Calli ,  ZEC ,  BC Card , Maxwell House ,  S-Oil ,  Corn Silk Tea ,  Hana Financial Bank ,  French cafe ,  Prugio  and  lg dios
In 2006, she became the highest paid cosmetics model when she signed a contract with the HERA brand of Amorepacific for the next five years. [ 7 ]  In 2007 she appeared in a commercial for LG Electronics' Shine TV Phone which became extremely popular and was the first, second and fourth most-searched video clips on Korean portals. [ 8 ]
Personal life
Kim has an older sister and a younger brother. Her brother  Lee Wan  is also an actor and is making himself known through a series of dramas, including  Swallow the Sun .
Hailed as one of the top beauties of Korea, Kim is also well-known for her intelligence. She was a top student during middle school having an average of ‘100′ for all subjects for 3 consecutive years  [ 9 ]
She graduated from the most prestigious university in Korea, the  Seoul National University , with a bachelor's degree in  fashion design . [ 10 ]
Filmography
Drama
Year Title Role Network
2002 Let's Go SBS
2003 Screen Kim So-hyun SBS
A Problem At My Younger Brother's House Park Su-jin SBS
Stairway to Heaven Han Yoo-ri SBS
2004 Forbidden Love Yoon Shi-yeon KBS
Love Story in Harvard Lee Soo-in SBS
2009 Iris Choi Seung-hee KBS2
2011 My Princess Lee Seol MBC
Film
Year Title Role
2001 Last Present  (short appearance) Young Jung-yeon
2002 New Citizen  (short film)
2006 The Restless So-hwa/Yon-hwa
2007 Venus and Mars Yoon Jin-ah
2010 Grand Prix Seo Ju-hee
Iris: The Movie Choi Seung-hee
Music Video
Joy Project
God 'A letter'
The Jun 'Only'
Park Yong Ha  'Please Don't Go'
Awards
2009  KBS Drama Awards  - Excellence in acting for  Iris [ 11 ] [ 12 ]
2009  KBS Drama Awards  - Best Couple with  Lee Byung-hun  for  Iris [ 11 ] [ 12 ]
2007  Grand Bell Awards : Overseas Popularity Award-Female for  The Restless [ 10 ]
2007  Blue Dragon Film Awards  - Popularity Award for  The Restless [ 13 ]
2007  Paeksang Arts Awards : Movie section Popularity Award-Actress for  The Restless
2005  Paeksang Arts Awards : TV section Popularity Award for  Love Story in Harvard
2004 SBS Drama Awards - Popularity award for  Love Story in Harvard
2004 SBS Drama Awards - Top 10 Stars Award for  Love Story in Harvard
2004  KBS Drama Awards  - Best New Actress for  Forbidden Love
2003 SBS Drama Awards - Best New Actress for  Stairway to Heaven
Diposkan oleh
korean13
di
18.52
Kirimkan Ini lewat Email BlogThis! Berbagi ke Twitter Berbagi ke Facebook Bagikan ke Pinterest
Tidak ada komentar:
Poskan Komentar
Posting Lebih Baru
Posting Lama
Beranda
Langganan:
Poskan Komentar (Atom)
Ada kesalahan di dalam gadget ini
Mengenai Saya
korean13
Bandung, West java, Indonesia
berawal dari kecintaan ku pada serial drama korea
Lihat profil lengkapku
Daftar Blog Saya
Sonnet 116
A not so hearty welcome
-
The Wimp-in-Chief
made a trip today to Roseburg, Oregon
to try to
leverage the evil tragedy of a loser who killed 9 innocents at Umpqua
Community College...
3 minggu yang lalu
Life as we know it!
Accepting Challenges!
-
This month is going to be all about accepting challenges! I was recently
told about the April A-Z challenge for bloggers and thought I didn't sign
up for i...
7 bulan yang lalu
KeLLy
Day one all over again
-
Randomly typing my blog link and it directed me to the right page.
Amazingly I can still remember my blog link (although I was hesitating when
I was typing ...
1 tahun yang lalu
Jeff Kaiser
I've Moved! (my blog)
-
Just to let readers know, I've moved my blog to my website in the "News &
Events" section.
Thank you!
http://jeffkaiser.com/news/
1 tahun yang lalu
Blog Ramlan Tjong - www.ramlantjong.com, Berawal dari kecintaan pada ilmu website
Melepas burung merpati di tempat jauh..
-
Pemandangan orang membawa jauh merpatinya untuk dilepas, hari ini menjadi
pemandangan sehari-hari di Surabaya. Kita akan rutin melihat pemandangan
tersebut...
1 tahun yang lalu
田中麗奈 Lena Tanaka
#2002
-
1 tahun yang lalu
EVOLve_the soul scan bay
THE BETTER OF BITTER GOURD FOR YOUR HEALTH
-
Bitter Gourd (Momordica Charantia) is a wonder vegetable, belonging to the
Cucurbitaceae or cucumber family, suitable for cultivation in the tropical
an...
1 tahun yang lalu
My Own Opinion
Coco Tails Window Valance By Lambs and Ivy
-
[image: Coco Tails Window Valance By Lambs and Ivy]Coco Tails Window
Valance by Lambs and Ivy. This tab style window valance features an
embroidered lion o...
1 tahun yang lalu
Falling to Pieces
Almost 6 Months Old
-
My beautiful baby girl is almost 6 months old! Can you believe it? My life
has been so crazy that I haven't been able to post anything, but now I'm
sudden...
2 tahun yang lalu
story of love
im still remember you
-
*Waktu telah berjalan begitu lama saat terakhir kali aku
bersamanya.....terakhir ketika aku melihat wajahnya, ya. ...Wajah yang
tidak pernah aku lupakan sa...
2 tahun yang lalu
Blogs of Note
Follow us on Google+!
-
We're putting our Blogs of Note blog in archive mode now, so for the latest
updates from the Blogger team please follow us on Google+ (which of course
incl...
2 tahun yang lalu
join the club.
Wordle
-
[image: Wordle: year in review]
3 tahun yang lalu
Sinopsis drama korea
-
Mr.Simple>
SJ) Because you naughty, naughty, hey! Mr. Simple
Because you naughty, naughty, SUJU ganda!
KYUHYUN) Sesang-ee nae mamdaero ahn dwendago hwama...
4 tahun yang lalu
Loading...
Pengikut
Arsip Blog
▼
2011
(4)
►
Oktober
(1)
▼
September
(3)
This is a Korean name; the family name is Kim.Kim...
My princess episode 1 part 2
My princess episode 1
Loading...
Template Simple. Gambar template oleh
luoman . Diberdayakan oleh
Blogger .