The Cap’n Names His Ten Best Ongoing Comic Series of 2011 — dadsbigplan
dadsbigplan
The Cap’n Names His Ten Best Ongoing Comic Series of 2011
by
Cap'n Carrot
on
December 22, 2011
·
9 comments
in
Comics! , You're the Best
2011 turned out to be a pretty good year for comics. This list takes a look at the best ongoing titles of the year (that means no mini-series or series released only as a graphic novel). To make the list each title had have at least four issues before the close of 2011. DC Comics leads my list with five titles (however, only one is still in print), Marvel comes in second with two of the best titles of the year, and then we throw in a rabbit ronin, a crime-fighting mallard, and a foursome of fearsome turtle power.
Before we get to list a few honorable mentions including the hugely entertaining
Super Dinosaur
and the supsenful
Morning Glories
(both from Image Comics), IDW’s
Snake Eyes , and Marvel’s
New Avengers
(which got a little lost for me in
Fear Itself  tie-ins and hasn’t been consistently good as the previous volume of the series). Now that is out of the way, on with the list:
10. Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles
Turtle power is back in IDW’s reimaging of the original comic series from
Tom Waltz ,  Dan Duncan  and co-creator
Kevin Eastman . The first arc retold the turtles origin as
Donatello ,
Leonardo , and
Michelangelo , searched for thier missing brother. The fourth issue, ending the series first arc, saw the turtles finally reunited. I’m hoping for big things from the TMNT in 2012.
9. Power Girl
Power Girl
has always been a character that never seems to fit well in the DCU. She’s had more confusing reboots and origins than almost any DC character other than
Hawkman , but, thanks in large part to writer
Judd Winnick
(and later
Matthew Sturges ), over the character’s final issues she was one of the best heroines in comics. Her 2011 adventures included fighting magical dinosaurs beside
Superman , attending Comic-Con, and working with
Batman  to stop an Arab super-villain who turned out to be anything but evil. Despite her much maligned ever-prevalent boob-window, Power Girl proved to be a solid role model for young female readers month after month. Sadly the character has been demoted as a bit player in the
New 52 , but for 2011 she owned the phrase girl power.
8. Usagi Yojimbo
This year writer and artist
Stan Sakai  penned his
200th issue
of a self-titled  Usagi Yojimbo  title. And you know what? The rabbit ronin’s travels continue to be as entertaining today as they were 27 years ago when Usagi made his first appearance in comics. In a period when comics seem to be shifting further away from all-ages titles
Usagi Yojimbo
remains the gold standard.
7. Red Robin
Dick Grayson ‘s run as Batman was pretty darn good in 2011, but not nearly as good as that of Red Robin. Poor  Tim Drake . He went from starring in one of the best Bat-books of 2011 into being re-imagined as
The Falcon of the New 52 . Before it ended, writer  Fabian Nicieza  and artist  Marcus To  put out one of best titles of DC Comics every single month.
He even fought Catman!
Whether it was searching for Bruce Wayne, working on his hit list, trying not to throttle
Damian , or preparing to take down the super-villain who murdered his father, Tim Drake took a dark path this year coming as close as we’ve seen a character get to a becoming a young Batman.
6. Daredevil
Daredevil
had a rough 2010. Matt Murdock’s Rambo-esque cross country trek from the beginning of the year did little to wash away the bad taste left by
Shadowland
(which is best forgotten). For a character that had been possessed by a demon, turned into a murderer, stripped of his costume, and thrown out of New York, there was quite a bit to do to get Matt Murdock back on his feet. Enter  Mark Waid , who not only has made Daredevil relevant again to the Marvel Universe (both battling criminals and in the courtroom), but also has made the character  fun
month after month. And those terrific covers by
Marcos Martin  don’t hurt either.
5. The Flash
The only comic from DC’s New 52 to make the cut is one of their oldest heroes given a new lease on life.
Barry Allen
sacrificed himself to save the Multiverse back in 1985 during
Crisis on Infinite Earths . And he stayed away for good long while until his eventual return in
Final Crisis  in 2008.  Despite an unfortunate decision to reboot a large part of the character’s history (including his relationship with
Iris ),  Francis Manapul  has done a terrific job in double duty as both writer and artist for the most fun, and best looking, title of the New 52.
4. Secret Six
I can’t describe how much I miss this comic. The adventures of a gang of misfits born out of
Villains United
came to an end this year (and I’m still angry). Although
Deadshot
made it into the New 52 (in the excrutiatingly horrible new
Suicide Squad ) Catman and the rest have been left to languish in limbo. Writer  Gail Simone  deserves all the praise I can give her for turning a comic full of C-list characters into one of the best comics I’ve ever read. At least they
went out with a bang . Here’s hoping we won’t have to wait until DC’s next reboot before the Six return to the comic shelves.
3. Moon Knight
Who would have thought the best comic from Marvel would be centered around
Moon Knight ?  Brian Michael Bendis  and  Alex Maleev  have delivered an insanely fun comic featuring an insane super-hero (and he’s not even named
Deadpool ). Everything choice works including the love interest of
Echo
and the character’s multiple personalities taking the form of Moon Knight’s Avenger teammates.
Moon Knight
may only rank #3 on the list, but it’s the best monthly comic still in print and I can’t recommend it highly enough.
2. Darkwing Duck
Honestly, I had never heard of Boom Studios before I learned that
Darkwing Duck
was set to appear in a new comic. I’ve always had a fondness for the cartoon which centered around a hero whose ability and good intentions were constantly overshadowed by his ego. Month after month writer  Ian Brill  and artist  James Silvani  provided the most fun comic around. Whether it was their battle against  Suff-Rage , the  Phantom Blot ,  The League of Barely Remembered Supervillains , a
giant robotic Walrus , or the sheer awesome of  Cat-Tankerous , Darkwing and his trusty sidekick
Launchpad  always found an entertaing way to save the day.
1. Batgirl
No, not the current one. No, not the one with
Cassandra Cain . For me, the discussion of Batgirl from here on out begins with only one character. Much like Gail Simone did with Catman, writer  Bryan Q. Miller  picked up a character from the Batman scrapheap and breathed new life into her.  Stephanie Brown
was given the mantle of Batgirl in 2009. And, man, did she shine.
Batgirl
was everything you wanted a comic to be, and more. In much the same way
Veronica Mars
was pitch-perfect updating of
Nancy Drew , Stephanie Brown was the 21st Century embodiment of a young
Barbara Gordon
(which makes Babs return to a character she outgrew decades ago so perplexing). Steph was smart, tough, vibrant, silly, and true. And the DCU is a little darker place without her around. All of Miller’s run on the title is collected in trade paperbacks and I’d recommend to anyone, especially those with youngsters looking for a way into comics, to grab every single one. I still miss you Steph, but damn did you give us some great memories.
Related
Tagged as:
batgirl ,
cap'n loves him some catman ,
daredevil ,
darkwing duck ,
flash ,
moon knight ,
power girl ,
red robin ,
secret six ,
turtle power ,
usagi yojimbo
Zevin Mars
No Journey into Mystery? No mention of Gillen’s run on the first volume of Uncanny X-Men (the current relaunched volume is missing something…)? No mention of Snyder’s Detective Comics, or Batman? Something about this list is very wrong and that is that it featured Fabian Nicieza.
Also, you should clear up that Powergirl blurb, you make it sound like Sturges had a long standing run on the title when he only did two issues at the tail end.
Cap’n Carrot
Thanks for the note on PW!! I meant to credit both Winnick and Sturges for Power Girl but it looks like part of that got truncated, I’ll fix it.
On your other comments:
1. Uncanny X-Men only has two issues (if you’ll look at the beginning of the post I required at least 4 issues before the end of the year). Two issues isn’t even through half of one arc (and to be honest the second issue wasn’t as good as the first).
2. I don’t read read Journey to Mystery. Sorry, Asgardian tales through a Marvel Comics filter just aren’t my thing. I will say Aaron has praised that comic quite a bit. But then again he also praised Thor which I had some issues with…
4. Detective Comics was a tricky one. I almost included it but my list was already DC heavy (and Bat-heavy with Red Robin and Batgirl). I wouldn’t argue that its better than the comics on this list but I also think it’s very easy to argue it’s inclusion.
5. Batman? No. Don’t get me wrong, I love the character and thoroughly enjoyed Dick Grayson’s run under the cowl but that comic was hit and miss all year. It was never in the running.
Thanks for the comments. By the way, just wondering, what’s your issue with Fabian Nicieza?
http://www.dadsbigplan.com
alphamonkey
All right thinking people taking issue with Fabian Nicieza, Cap’n.
I have to agree with that one, even though he has sadly been put on books I otherwise love (like Journey into Mystery).
I think I’ll just have to make my own list here….
Justin
I gotta ask.. Where is SHIELD?
Cap’n Carrot
Are you talking about Secret Warriors?
http://www.dadsbigplan.com
alphamonkey
No, he’s talking about Hickman’s excellent SHIELD mini-series (which a) you’re not reading and b) wouldn’t qualify for this list as it’s a mini).
But while we’re on the topic: Secret Warriors kicked ass.
Pingback:
Robot 6 @ Comic Book Resources ()
http://sportspressus.com
Paul
Uncanny X-Force is hands down book of the year and where is Venom or Secret Avengers, they were both amazing. While Moon Knight and Daredevil are great, X-Force should be number one. I don’t know if it’s the content (not exactly good for children) but Moon Knight, and even Daredevil weren’t great in that regard.
Cap’n Carrot
When Secret Avengers was good this year it was very good, but there were several issues where it wasn’t (and at least once when I wanted my money back). For me it was one of those hit-and-miss titles which you never knew what you were going to get. (I left off FF for the same reason.)
On X-Force, I liked it when I read it, but it didn’t keep my interest month after month like the titles on this list. It just never became a must-read for me.
Venom? Really? No.
Previous post:
60′s LEGO Batman
Next post:
We Bought a Zoo
The Searching
Get Your Plan On
RSS Feed
Podcast Feed
iTunes Feed
Twitter
Facebook
Contact dbp
The Facebookering
The Taggering animation
art
awesome
batman
Cinema
comedy
Commercials
cool
dc comics
death
Design
Diversions
doctor who
dumb
dvd and blu-ray
eargasms
Entertainment
funny
gadgets
Games
Humor
japan
Mash-Up
Media
Media Junkie
Miscellany
movie reviews
Music Videos
nature
Nerdvana
New 52
News
Old Skool
parody
Politics
Sci-Tech
Short Film
Stupid People
The Comics Rack
trailer
Tube Watch
Viral Media
Websites
weird
where does he get those wonderful toys
The Categoring
Announcements
Audio Visual
Comics!
Commercials
Diversions
Entertainment
Film
Games
General Tomfoolery
Illustration & Design
In the News
Japan
Mashup
Media Rack
Miscellany
Muppets
Music
Music Videos
Nerdgasms
News
Old School
Podcast
Politics
Robots!
Sci-Tech
Sci/Tech
Sexuality
Short Film
Star Wars
Stupid People
Television
Toys and Gizmos
Uncategorized
Websites
You're the Best
You have been reading
dadsbigplan . We are totally not responsible for any awesome that has splashed on you.
WordPress Admin