Titanic (1997 Film)
Titanic
Titanic (1997 Film)
The Real Titanic
|
Titanic (1997 Film)
|
Jack Dawson
|
Lucy, Lady Duff Gordon
|
Thomas Andrews
|
Captain Edward Smith
|
J. Bruce Ismay
|
James Cameron
|
Caledon Hockley
|
Molly Brown
|
John Jacob Astor IV
|
Spicer LoveJoy
|
Cosmo Duff Gordon
|
Rose DeWitt Bukater
|
About Me
|
Favorite Links
|
Contact Me
Titanic
is an
Academy Award
winning
1997
dramatic
film
released by
20th Century Fox
and
Paramount Pictures . The bulk of the plot is set aboard the ill-fated
RMS
Titanic
during her maiden voyage in
1912 . The movie won 11
Academy Awards
on
March 23 ,
1998
including
best picture
of 1997. As of 2006,
Titanic
has the
highest box office take
in movie history (unadjusted for inflation; adjusted for inflation it is #3 all-time). The 1997 film should not be confused
with the
Titanic
movie made in
1953 , nor a made-for-television film of the same title that was telecast in
1996 .
Titanic
holds the record (with
Ben-Hur
and
The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King ) for the most
Academy Award
winning film, taking in 11 including the coveted Best Picture award.
The film's taglines are "Collide with Destiny" and "Nothing on Earth could come between them."
Production
When this epic
disaster film
was not finished in time for its scheduled July 1997 release date, it sent shockwaves throughout Hollywood: studio execs
began wondering if they might have another
Heaven's Gate
on their hands. The two releasing studios,
20th Century Fox
(which handled the international distribution and actually had movie rights to the
Titanic
name) and
Paramount Pictures
(which had the U.S. rights) panicked. By the middle of 1997,
Titanic
had become the most costly film ever made (its
reported cost hovered in the $285 million US range) and the bills were still coming in. When director James Cameron finally
delivered the film to Paramount, it ran over 3 hours and it was anyone's guess whether he would ever work in Hollywood again
( 2008
will be his first major commercial release since
Titanic ). But Cameron stood his ground and threatened edit-happy
studio executives with the message: "You will cut my film over my dead body." Cameron later admitted that he was slightly
worried that the film might bomb.
Moved to a crowded release date of
December 19 ,
1997
(opposite, among other major releases, the
James Bond
film
Tomorrow Never Dies ), the film opened with a little promotion, and returned $28 million in ticket sales on the first weekend. Within a week,
the gross tripled. By New Year's Day, the film had hit $100 million and showed no sign of slowing down. It held a virtual
lock on first place at the box office for nearly four months and would become the (inflation unadjusted) highest grossing
film of all-time with more than $1.8 billion in ticket sales worldwide.
[ edit ]
Cast
Leonardo DiCaprio
-
Jack Dawson
Kate Winslet
-
Rose DeWitt Bukater
Billy Zane
-
Caledon Hockley
Frances Fisher
- Ruth DeWitt Bukater
Kathy Bates
-
Margaret "Molly" Brown
Eric Braeden
- Colonel
John Jacob Astor IV
David Warner
-
Spicer Lovejoy
Martin Jarvis
- Sir
Cosmo Duff Gordon
Rosalind Ayres
- Lady
Lucille Duff Gordon
Danny Nucci
- Fabrizio De Rossi
Gloria Stuart
- Old Rose
Victor Garber
-
Thomas Andrews
Bernard Hill
- Captain
Edward J. Smith
Jonathan Hyde
-
J. Bruce Ismay
Bernard Fox
- Colonel
Archibald Gracie
Jason Barry
- Tommy Ryan
Ewan Stewart
- First Officer
William McMaster Murdoch
Jonathan Phillips
- Second Officer
Charles Lightoller
Ioan Gruffudd
- Fifth Officer
Harold Lowe
Michael Ensign
-
Benjamin Guggenheim
James Lancaster
-
Father Byles
Rochelle Rose
-
Noël Leslie, Countess of Rothes
Suzy Amis
- Lizzy Calvert
Bill Paxton
- Brock Lovett
Anatoly Sagalevitch
- Dr. Anatoly Milkailavich
[ edit ]
Response
[ edit ]
Box office
When the film opened in the U.S. on December 19,
Titanic
received steady attendance, but by Sunday that weekend
theaters were beginning to sell out, with the opening weekend gross of the film totaling $28,638,131. Three months after the
film’s release, its popularity did not abate and theaters were still being sold out.
Titanic
differs from most
films released since the late 1990s in that it took fifteen weeks for its weekly gross to drop by 50%. Typically films drop
by about 40% a week. By the end of March,
1998
Titanic
had become the first film to earn more than $1 billion. Many filmgoers saw
Titanic
multiple times,
and the related soundtrack and book became top sellers. [1]
Titanic
grossed a total of $1,845,034,188 worldwide and is the highest grossing film of all time.
Titanic
was relatively even more successful outside North America; no other film in the top thirty (non inflation-adjusted) worldwide
box office hits of the 20th century took more than two thirds of its receipts outside the United States and Canada.
[1]
[ edit ]
Criticism
Titanic
received a great deal of negative advance publicity for its budget overruns and delayed release. When it
was released reviews were mixed, but less negative than many had anticipated. Some reviewers felt the story and dialogue were
weak while the visuals were spectacular. Jeff Millar of the
Houston Chronicle
wrote, "When the ship does hit the berg, at the one-hour-and-45-minute point, we are immediately compensated for the
padding in writer-director James Cameron's basic narrative — a shipboard romance." [2]
On the other hand there were also positive reviews.
Titanic' s cost and size was compared to classic Hollywood
epics,
Roger Ebert
said "It is flawlessly crafted, intelligently constructed, strongly acted and spellbinding. If its story stays well within
the traditional formulas for (Hollywood epics), well, you don't choose the most expensive film ever made as your opportunity
to reinvent the wheel." [3]
[ edit ]
Controversy
The depiction of First Officer
William McMaster Murdoch
caused controversy in Murdoch's hometown of
Dalbeattie ,
Scotland . The film depicts the first officer accepting a bribe, (later rejecting it) and shooting two passengers in panic before committing
suicide. 20th Century Fox apologized for the depiction and James Cameron donated $8,340 to a memorial fund dedicated to Murdoch. [4]
[ edit ]
Awards
[ edit ]
Won
Titanic
won
Oscars
in just about every category it was nominated in except for the acting and makeup categories.
Titanic
was nominated
in 14 categories and won 11, being the second movie to win that number (the first was
Ben-Hur
with
The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King
matching the record in 2004). At the time, it was also the only movie in which two people playing the same person (Kate
Winslet as Rose and Gloria Stuart as Old Rose) was nominated for an award (coincidentally, the second film to do so,
Iris , also starred Winslet).
Art direction
— Art Direction:
Peter Lamont ; Set Decoration:
Michael Ford
Cinematography
—
Russell Carpenter
Costume Design
—
Deborah L. Scott
Direction
—
James Cameron
Film Editing
—
Conrad Buff ,
James Cameron ,
Richard A. Harris
Music (Original Dramatic Score)
—
James Horner
Music (Original Song)
— " My Heart Will Go On ," music by
James Horner ; lyric by
Will Jennings
Best Picture
—
James Cameron
and
Jon Landau , Producers
Sound
—
Gary Rydstrom ,
Tom Johnson ,
Gary Summers ,
Mark Ulano
Sound Effects Editing
—
Tom Bellfort ,
Christopher Boyes
Visual Effects
—
Robert Legato ,
Mark Lasoff ,
Thomas L. Fisher ,
Michael Kanfer
[ edit ]
Nominated
Best Actress in a Leading Role
—
Kate Winslet
Best Actress in a Supporting Role
—
Gloria Stuart
Best Makeup
—
Tina Earnshaw ,
Greg Cannom ,
Simon Thompson
[ edit ]
Soundtrack
Main article:
Titanic (soundtrack)
The soundtrack CD for
Titanic
was composed by
James Horner
and sold over 11 million copies, notable because it included only one pop song with lyrics. The soundtrack includes performances
from the Norwegian singer
Sissel Kyrkjebø , and the famous Canadian singer
Celine Dion . It became a worldwide success, and led to the release of a second volume that contained a mixture of previously unreleased
soundtrack recordings with newly-recorded performances of some of the songs in the film, including one track recorded by
Enya 's sister,
Máire Brennan
of the Irish band
Clannad . "Hymn To The Sea" featured
Bad Haggis 's Eric Rigler on the
uilleann pipes
and whistles.
[ edit ]
DVD
Titanic
was first released to DVD in
1999
in a
widescreen -only (non- anamorphic ) single disc edition with no special features. Cameron stated at the time that he intended to release a special edition with
extra features at a later date. Six years later, on
October 25 ,
2005 , a special edition release finally occurred with a 3-DVD set in
North America
that included an anamorphic widescreen-only presentation of the movie divided onto two of the discs, 45 minutes of deleted
scenes, an alternate ending, a faux
1912 -style
newsreel , a crew tribute/gag reel, and other features. An international two- and four-disc edition followed on
November 7 ,
2005 .
[ edit ]
Deleted scenes
The 2005 DVD release included about 45 minutes worth of deleted scenes that were cut from the film either for pacing, to
shorten the film to a marketable running time, or for reasons James Cameron describes in his commentary as "tonal". Some of
the cut sequences are minor additions, while others are major scenes. The public were first made aware of many of these deleted
scenes with the publication of
Titanic' s screenplay in 1998 and a few of them were first shown in a Fox TV special
detailing the making of the film, and later Cameron incorporated some of the cut scenes into his
Titanic Explorer
CD-ROM . Still other scenes involving Jack and Rose passed into near-legend with fans of the romantic subplot of the film wanting
to see more of their heroes.
The following is a list of 19 of the major deleted scenes included on the DVD release. There were 31 deleted scenes in
total:
An extension of Rose unpacking her paintings, in which Caledon clearly states that he believes her to be a virgin. The
context is in discussing how the beds have never been slept in before.
Prior to her suicide attempt, Rose is shown trying to undress herself but growing violently frustrated when she is unable
to do so (because of the nature of high society costuming at the time, servants were required to assist with dressing and
undressing).
A lengthy sequence that would have followed Rose being presented with the Heart of the Ocean, starting with a CGI morph
of young Rose's hand holding the diamond to a closeup of Old Rose's hand. Old Rose announces that she is tired and needs rest,
but Brock wants to continue pumping her for information. Old Rose is adamant and returns to her quarters. Brock is reminded
that his sponsors want to pull the plug on the expedition, after which he is confronted by Rose's angry granddaughter Lizzy.
Brock explains his dream of finding the diamond, and shows Lizzy how his hand will look as it holds the diamond. Lizzy asks
Brock if he believes Rose was on the
Titanic , and he replies "Yeah, I'm a believer". (This dialogue was included in
some of the trailers for the film). The cut sequence continues with another CGI morph from the
Titanic
wreck to Rose
walking along the Promenade Deck. She then sneaks through the gate into Third Class and searches for Jack in the Common Area
where is he talking with Cora, a young girl. Rose finds Jack and thanks him for saving her life.
A scene that would have followed the above had Jack and Rose discussing her dreams, and she talks about her desire to
become a motion picture actress. To emphasize the point, she vamps for a passenger's motion picture camera.
After the Third Class party sequence, Jack walks Rose back to the First Class entrance as they sing "Come Josephine in
My Flying Machine." Rose says "I don't want to go back" and the two look at the stars for a few moments, spotting a meteorite
cutting across the sky. Jack says every time you see a shooting star, it's a soul going to heaven. This scene emphasizes the
later significance of Rose whispering "Come Josephine" while staring at the sky after the
Titanic
and Jack are lost.
During Rose and Caledon's tour of the ship, they also visited the gymnasium, which was recreated faithfully from old photographs.
(A later deleted scene shows passengers huddling in the gymnasium while waiting for lifeboats.)
A brief piece of dialogue that reveals
Spicer Lovejoy
is a former cop hired by Caledon's father to take care of his son.
After their romp through the boiler room, and prior to the lovemaking scene in the car, Jack and Rose kiss passionately
among the boilers.
The
Californian
tries to warn the
Titanic
about the ice fields, but are rudely cut off by the radio operators
on board. The
Californian' s radio officer gives up and goes to bed.
Right after the collision, there was originally a comedic moment with Molly Brown asking a bartender for "a little ice"
as the iceberg passes the window behind her. Historically speaking, this is inaccurate as Brown had actually been reading
in her stateroom at the time of the collision; Cameron said he cut the scene as he felt in retrospect that it was inappropriate
to include a comical moment at such a crucial point in the film.
Jack and Rose play with the ice that has fallen onto the deck, Jack is confident that the ship is safe and Rose drops
a piece of ice down Jack's shirt.
A historically famous moment in which one of the two
Titanic
radio operators suggests his colleague use the "new"
SOS distress signal. "Might be the only chance you get to use it."
In her lifeboat, Molly Brown teaches some of her fellow passengers how to row.
After Caledon realizes he has accidentally given the diamond to Rose, there originally followed a lengthy and suspenseful
cat-and-mouse fight sequence between Lovejoy and Jack in the quickly flooding main dining room. This sequence was cut by Cameron
after it received unfavorable responses from test audiences. This scene explains why Lovejoy sports a head injury just before
his death in the final version of the film.
Cora, the little girl who befriended Jack, is shown drowning with her family, trapped behind a locked Third Class gate.
Captain Smith orders the mostly-empty lifeboats to return to the
Titanic
for more passengers. Aboard Molly Brown's
boat, the crewmember in charge ( Robert Hichens ) refuses, saying it's every man for himself. "The fools," Smith says.
After Jack helps Rose to get on the floating door following the
Titanic's
sinking, another man tries to get on
as well, but Jack threatens to kill him if he does as there's only enough room for Rose. Jack is also shown realizing at this
point that he is going to die.
An alternate, extended version of the
Carpathia
rescue sequence that shows additional footage of the survivors,
including footage of Second Officer Lightoller and a group of other survivors balancing on the overturned collapsible lifeboat
B (based upon historical accounts and a famous sequence from
A Night to Remember ).
An alternate version of the scene in which Old Rose throws the diamond into the ocean. In the cut version, Old Rose goes
to the stern of the ship and looks up at the sky and sees a shooting star (a reference to the earlier "Come Josephine" scene
aboard the
Titanic
that was cut). Brock, Lizzy and Lewis notice her and think at first that she's planning to jump.
She then reveals that she had the diamond the whole time ("Every time I thought about selling it, I thought of Cal and how
I always managed to get by without his help.") When they realize that she had the diamond all the time, Brock tries to convince
her not to throw it away, but she won't be swayed. She does, however, allow him to hold it in his hands - and his hand makes
the shape that he showed Lizzy in the earlier scene. Rose then throws the diamond into the water. (This last sequence is not
included in the "deleted scenes" section of Disc 3 of the DVD release, but rather is included by itself on Disc 2. It is dubbed
an alternate ending, although strictly speaking the sequence in which Old Rose goes to sleep or dies and returns to the
Titanic
and Jack is identical in both versions.)
Although he agreed to include these and other scenes (there were 31 in total) on the DVD release, James Cameron has stated
that he has no intention of reintegrating any of these sequences into the movie (unlike what he did with his earlier films
Terminator 2: Judgment Day
and
Aliens
which were released in extended versions with deleted scenes reinstated).
[ edit ]
Parodies
As with any classic film,
Titanic
has had many scenes spoofed:
Scary Movie
features a cinema scene in which a movie called 'Amistad 2' is advertised, with a black man mimicking the famous "I'm
the king of the world!" scene at the ship's prow.
A scene in
Scary Movie 2
involves Cindy orally pleasuring Bobby to keep him awake, telling him he'll live and lead a good life. Jack, obviously
minus the oral pleasure, has a similar scene with Rose atop the floating door. During the scene in
Scary Movie 2 , the
Titanic
theme "My Heart Will Go On" plays gently in the background.
In
Bruce Almighty , Jim Carrey asks an old woman several questions as if she was Rose: "Why did you throw the blue "Heart of the Ocean"
jewel over the railing of the
Titanic ? Didn't you feel bad letting Leo DiCaprio drown while you were safe floating
on the big door? Couldn't you have taken turns? Or were you just too afraid to freeze your big fat ass off?!?" A factual error
in this scene is that Rose did not throw the jewel over the side of the
Titanic : she threw it over the side of the
salvaging ship. However, one may also argue that "Why did you throw the blue "Heart of the Ocean" jewel over the railing of
the salvaging ship after the
Titanic
sunk?" is a bit of a mouthful.
The ending of the Leslie Nielson film
Wrongfully Accused
involved Nielson's character and his love interest on the ship's front in a parody of the scene in which Jack helps Rose
up on the railing to make it seem like she is flying. In
Wrongfully Accused , when Nielson and the female go to kiss,
the ship's horn blows, and sails under a low bridge, causing the lovers to hit their heads and collapse. In real life the
ship's super-structure would have quickly run into the bridge.
A television commercial features old Rose throwing the diamond into the ocean, then diving in and retrieving it, only
to sell it to a pawn shop. The commercial was for a yellow pages, and advised "making smart financial decisions." Another
ad featured Jack and Rose freezing in the ocean atop the large door, with Rose saying, "I'll never let go, I promise," as
she lets Jack sink under the water. A moment later, he resurfaces, only to be pushed forcibly back under by Rose.
An episode of
French & Saunders
in 1997 spoofed many aspects of the film, notably James Cameron's "King of the World" Oscar acceptance speech, the computer-duplicated
extras in the film, and the Max Factor tie-in advertisements.
An episode of
Futurama , " A Flight To Remember " spoofs the entire film, having the events set aboard a cruise spaceship named
Titanic . Ironically, the ship was brashly
piloted at high speed through a field of comets (described in the episode as "the icebergs of the sky"), but ultimately ended
up being sucked into a
black hole .
In the
Britney Spears
song
Oops! I did it again , Britney is heard saying to the male love interest in the song "...but I thought the old
lady dropped it into the ocean in the end?" He responds with "Well baby, I went down and got it for you!"
In a Saturday Night Live skit from 1998, Bill Paxton plays his character interrogating Rose (played by Cheri Oteri) on
where the diamond went. Rose's daughter (Ana Gayster) becomes upset at learning her mother has been sitting on a fortune all
these years and joins in. A crew member points out how wrong Rose's story is and has made it all up. The scene cuts to Cameron
(as himself) in an office, explaining this was the original ending but it was changed "after test audiences rioted and burned
down the theater." After saying that sharing this makes the audiences "king of the world," Cameron lights a cigar with a $100
bill.
In an episode of
Family Guy , the ending scene is shown from the
Titanic . Jack just dies as he hangs on the door Rose is floating on. She lets
him go and he falls into the ocean. To show what the world would be like without death, instead of dying, Jack floats back
up and says "You know what? Actually I think I'm going to be ok." Rose expresses her joy and implies that they can now get
married. Jack says, "...Well, I have a girlfriend in New York, and things are getting pretty serious, but hey, thanks for
letting me draw you naked! I still can't believe you let me do that!"
Hanson 's music video for "The River" parodies the movie's frame story. In the end, old Rose (again played by Gloria Stuart) opens
up her CD player and drops a copy of Hanson's CD into the ocean. The video was directed by "Weird Al" Yankovic.
In the movie
Shark Tale , there is the painting of Rose on the wall, but she has had clothes drawn on her.
In the satirical Japanese anime Excel Saga, the main character demonstrates her obsession with another character by imagining
a re-creation of the kiss scene at the front of the Titanic.
In the parody
trailer
mashup
for a sequel,
"Titanic Two the Surface,"
by Derek Johnson.
In an epidsode of
The Simpsons , Smithers is seen painting Mr. Burns naked while on a boat, even though Burns is seen dressed. This is a parody of the scene
where Jack Dawson paints Rose nude.