10 | May | 2010 | SCIFIre@lismQuest.com
SCIFIre@lismQuest.com
Skip to content
unmorpheric
Day:
May 10, 2010
0 Comments Leave a comment
May 10, 2010
benabb
Uncategorized
vesicular processess of space ship type harvesting
harvesting high rate vesicular processess
By Henryk Szubinski
Rizosomes are strong enough to activate the multiple processess of lifting the types of similar rhizosomic interactions by the format data flow of totally new formats of the experieence forming event of totally new mind scapes of unknown but stimulative new parameters of life and the introductions into emotional shareing:
format vector alterability of the impulse H2O weakening in the force as released into universe uncertainty
using the ressonance on a cylindrical  format
of the  H2O
flow  into
the  …..
universe
x = force vectors
through  vector
accellerations  …
as the values and their system  alterability
of vectorisations = to the data on the  …
Wikipedia . … Even if a question can never have an answer im pretty sure that therell …  …
We show how the  Wikipedia format
can be used to identify possible named  …..
of how various  forces
produce and regulate social structures on the site.  ….
Within this, one of the widely applied models is the  vector
space model (VSM),  ……
The talk will give some insight into
why  Wikipedia
has worked so far and  …
It is thus a  vector
quantity with dimension length/time².  ….
An actuary is a business professional who deals with the financial impact of risk and  uncertainty .  ……
An album may be  released
in a single  format , such as on compact disc,  ……
of a blood vessel caused by disease or  weakening
of the vessel wall.  …
A script sends a search query from Second Life chat to  Wikipedia ,  …..
But the immutable and the  alterable
are not so separate as they seem.  ……
OK Prey and the soon to be released
Portal may look at disjointed physicality  ……
The colors, lights and forms, the tensions and compressions of the space’s  force ,  …
But the immutable and the  alterable
are not so separate as they seem.  …..
“Augmented reality and sensor nets will blend right  into
virtual worlds,” predicts  ……
on line-chat, the rhizome image and the state of  uncertainty .  ……
nuclear  forces ) and create media worlds as new  universes , where physical laws  …
This selfless virtual subject is the translocal relation, a  force
that  ……
style, but also, like Heisenberg’s  uncertainty
principle, brackets the act of  ……
is implicit in the translocal (1987, 531).127 Another  vector
……
ity) territories from which one can really take off  into
new universes
of reference.  …
basically the Rhimozomes represent the fast way into a neural network by the generally larger representations of human neuron activity by axionic interactions by stimulated experience of shared emotional processess:
while maintaining a larger volume of input such as wire devices
19 Dec 2007  …
alterable
truism that the rich will always get richer.  ……
along the lines of a large- format
NiMH battery, for shortly after the patents expire.  ……
I can live with doubt and uncertainty
and not knowing.  ……
It is time to  force
the hidden technlogy out  into
the open – things That Tesla and  …
Jessica Nebel created this poster with an  alterable
structure that I discovered on Type for you.  ……
these stunning objects  into
space and beyond their recognised domain.  …… Supposedly a podcast will eventually be  released
as well.  ……
That’s why I was so thrilled to find the All Free  Vector
Logo archive.  …
technology is the driving  force
that will help so many companies grow and succeed.  …… cement that actually absorbs more carbon dioxide than is  released
during  …..
value of pursuing innovation despite the  uncertainty
of the outcome.  ……
into
one by delivering byte alterability , faster programming times and  …
In  botany , a  rhizome
(from  Greek : ῥίζωμα,  rhizoma , “root-stalk”) is a characteristically horizontal  stem
of a  plant
that is usually found underground, often sending out  roots
and  shoots
from its  nodes . Rhizomes may also be referred to as creeping rootstalks, or rootstocks.
A  stolon
is similar to a rhizome, but, unlike a rhizome, which is the main stem of the plant, a stolon sprouts from an existing stem, has long internodes, and generates new shoots at the end, such as in the  strawberry
plant. In general, rhizomes have short internodes; they send out roots from the bottom of the nodes and new upward-growing shoots from the top of the nodes. It is a method of reproduction for plants. A stem  tuber
is a thickened part of a rhizome or stolon
that has been enlarged for use as a  storage organ . [1]
In general, a tuber is high in  starch , for example, the common  potato , which is a modified stolon. The term tuber is often used imprecisely, and is sometimes applied to plants with rhizomes.
the rhizosome section as a thin format for LINK UP into the neural network by the channelings of data:
Some plants have rhizomes that grow above ground or that lie at the soil surface, including some  Iris
species, and  ferns , whose spreading stems are rhizomes. Plants with underground rhizomes include  ginger ,  bamboo , the  Venus Flytrap ,  Chinese lantern ,  Western poison-oak , [2]
hops ,  Alstroemeria , and turmeric , and the weeds  Johnson grass ,  bermuda grass , and  purple nut sedge . Rhizomes generally form a single layer, but in  Giant Horsetails , can be multi-tiered [3] .
redefining the H2O processess of the reported pollutance
FromEntropia Directory  wiki
… After a long time a new generation of … ….. fluid comparative universe
vector similarities of forced  H2O
basis interactions …  …
data  force
vector strings action reaction  universe
sustainment  force
fields  …
OF STRING TO MOLECULAR  H2O
= THE ELEMENTS: … From Entropia Directory  wiki
…  …
Much of the  universe’s
water may be produced as a byproduct of star formation.  …
NASA reported
the detection of water molecules by NASA’s Moon Mineralogy Mapper  ….
Water is thus essential and central to these metabolic  processes .  …..
Thus other people pay the price of water  pollution , while the private firms’  …
process
stage  H2O
reach removal of the  Universe process
…..
Wikipedia
encyclopedia …. For a star to be stable, the compressive  force
of gravitation must  …
position data) to  redefine a new … neck motion in response to acceleration,  …
15 Nov 2008  …
These  forces
are particularly important when cells are exposed to dry  … Capillary action refers to the  process
of water moving up a narrow tube  ….
It is thought that much of the  universe’s
water may have been produced as  …..
Thus other people pay the price of water  pollution , while the private  …
basics of pollutance seperating from the H2O formed by star elements
Wikipedia
Logo  Wikipedia . Licensed under the GNU Free Documentation License.  ….
Much of the  universe’s
water may be produced as a byproduct of star formation.  …
The most important geological  processes
caused by water are: chemical  …..
An aqueous environment can be favourable to the breakdown of  pollutants ,  …
It is chemically the same as normal water,  H2O , but the hydrogen atoms are of  ….
Much of the  universe’s
water may be produced as a byproduct of star formation.  ……
Reverse osmosis is a separation  process
that uses pressure to  force
a  …
Like other types of  pollution , this does not enter standard accounting of  …
In any subject/class, culture emerges as the driving  force
silently guiding  …
Well we have a lot of noise  pollution , trash  pollution , junk mail,  ….
Backtesting is the  process
of testing an investment strategy over prior time  …..
it makes you reconsider your whole  universe
(I think it was a fluke because this  …
0 Comments Leave a comment
May 10, 2010
benabb
1 ,
ASTROPHYSICS ,
CONCEPT ART ,
CONCEPT DESIGN
spaceship law
freelance
By Henryk Szubinski
on the basis of the trianglations of the process to use vectorisations for the personal implementations of the advanced status of 3 aquired law usage as the point system in the following:
the declaration as its first instance of the type internal governement as the representations by policy of amounted voers for the system defined here
The basic spaceship and spacetravel laws as being without limitations on the usage of availability of any resource to displace through space by the formats of constructs that are shared evenly amongst the applicance to a usage of such spaceships as the law of aquirability by the formats of requirement on this basis of need as the instance of the questions concerning the usage of such means of displacement without limitations to the vector values of any non limitation as supplied by the European law as constituted to be the first free usage law of spacetravel and the adaptations of flying cars as the declarations of such inventories of technological advances by the requirement to release such data and make available. the vechicles derived from top level research.
The law as such makes full use of the reasons for its implementations by the prerequisite of the law that cites its usage.
stated following:
The  European Citizens’ Initiative
is one of the major innovations of the  Treaty of Lisbon , aimed at increasing direct  democracy
in the  European Union . The initiative enables one million  EU citizens , who are nationals of a significant number of  Member States , to call directly on the  European Commission
to bring forward an initiative of interest to them in an area of EU competence.
This is the first time that citizens will have a direct say in EU affairs. Thus citizens will be put on the same footing as the European Council and the European Parliament in relation to their right to suggest laws.
The subject of the citizens’ initiative must function within the boundaries of the existing European treaties and the powers of the European Commission.
The legal basis of the citizens’ initiative is set out in Article 11, Paragraph 4 of the  Treaty on European Union
(TEU) and Article 24, paragraph 1 of the  Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
The citizens’ initiative complements the existing right to petition the  European Parliament
and the right of appeal to the  Ombudsman
as set out in the Treaty of Maastricht (1993). Petitions and the citizens’ initiative are fundamentally different however in terms of function, addressees and conditions.
The practical arrangements, conditions and procedure of the citizens’ initiative will be determined in a new regulation. The European Commission published a  Green Paper
on the citizens’ initiative on 11 November with a view to shaping this regulation. [1]
0 Comments Leave a comment
May 10, 2010
benabb
1 ,
ASTROPHYSICS ,
building blocks for flying cars ,
CONCEPT ART ,
CONCEPT DESIGN ,
SCIENCE FICTION REALITY ,
space travel ,
THE UNIVERSAL FORCE ,
vechicle astrophysics
ice clouds on Mars
looking at the 40 000 year range for the last apparency of a declination in the ice age process as the bit data concerned with the basics of the troph in reductions by the general formats of:
1)
the ice age as being the 40 000 year taken to sustain a artificial environements for full terraformations of the Mars planet:the type 1 H2O zone as the range of the water going from frozen into fluidity  on the full elevels of a value 40 000 as the reductive vector into the full volume of H2O being altered into hidden reservoirs
2)the process of a 2 planar type 2 divisive of the atmospherical + surface interactions of H2O with the process of a mars full sustainability by the divisives of two so that: the process would take a safety barrier of repeat mistakes into the zone of
40 000 (2) volume =temperature alterability
=the volume as seperated by a force vector
data on this value as the utilisations of forming star system usage of the full value of forming new stars= Force
as such
3)
the process of the data on the minimal degree of alterations in a period of 2 000  to 10 000 years as the drop into force as the universal value of A.I formats using the level 2 sequence on the +/- 2 000 or 10 000 as the error formats of the temperature and force range of the star system full value of the universe where the galaxies are seen as this process of reductions but with greater computational predictives of the value vector in its full opposition as reopposed into the full universe
Most liquids freeze at a higher temperature under pressure, because the pressure helps to hold the molecules together. However, the strong  hydrogen bonds in water make it different: water freezes at a temperature below 0 °C under a pressure higher than 1 atm (0.10 MPa). Consequently, water also remains frozen at a temperature above 0 °C under a pressure lower than 1 atm. The melting of ice under high pressures is thought to contribute to the movement of glaciers.
Ice formed at high pressure has a different crystal structure and density from ordinary ice. Ice, water, and  water vapour
can coexist at the  triple point , which is exactly 273.16 K (by definition) at a pressure of 611.73  Pa .
Subjected to higher pressures and varying temperatures, ice can form in fifteen separate known phases. With care all these types can be recovered at ambient pressure. The types are differentiated by their crystalline structure, ordering and density. There are also two  metastable
phases of ice under pressure, both fully hydrogen-disordered; these are  IV
and  XII . Ice XII was discovered in 1996. In 2006, XIII
and  XIV
were discovered. [36]
Ices XI, XIII, and XIV are hydrogen-ordered forms of ices I h , V, and XII respectively. In 2009 ice XV was found at extremely high pressures and −143 degrees celsius. [37]
As well as crystalline forms, solid water can exist in amorphous states as  amorphous solid water
(ASW),  low-density amorphous ice
(LDA),  high-density amorphous ice
(HDA),  very high-density amorphous ice
(VHDA) and  hyperquenched glassy water
(HGW).
In outer space, hexagonal crystalline ice (the predominant form found on Earth) is extremely rare.  Amorphous ice
is more common; however, hexagonal crystalline ice can be formed via volcanic action. [38]
ice clouds on the Marsian North pole Arctic
English:
Clouds scoot across the Martian sky in a movie clip consisting of 10 frames taken by the Surface Stereo Imager on NASA’s Phoenix Mars Lander.
This clip accelerates the motion. The camera took these 10 frames over a 10-minute period from 2:52 p.m. to 3:02 p.m. local solar time at the Phoenix site during Sol 94 (Aug. 29), the 94th Martian day since landing.
Particles of water-ice make up these clouds, like ice-crystal cirrus clouds on Earth. Ice hazes have been common at the Phoenix site in recent days.
The camera took these images as part of a campaign by the Phoenix team to see clouds and track winds. The view is toward slightly west of due south, so the clouds are moving westward or west-northwestward.
The clouds are a dramatic visualization of the Martian water cycle. The water vapor comes off the north pole during the peak of summer. The northern-Mars summer has just passed its peak water-vapor abundance at the Phoenix site. The atmospheric water is available to form into clouds, fog and frost, such as the lander has been observing recently.
The Phoenix Mission is led by the University of Arizona, Tucson, on behalf of NASA. Project management of the mission is by NASA’s Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, Calif. Spacecraft development is by Lockheed Martin Space Systems, Denver.
0 Comments Leave a comment
May 10, 2010
benabb
1 ,
ASTROPHYSICS ,
building blocks for flying cars ,
CONCEPT ART ,
CONCEPT DESIGN ,
SCIENCE FICTION REALITY ,
space travel ,
THE UNIVERSAL FORCE ,
vechicle astrophysics
quadratic 2 to 4 as flying car
full Quad utilisations
spaceship and flying car motors
By Henryk Szubinski
top view
vector input &/OR OUTPUT on the levels of the alterability of the main minimalised conality of the flow of force through the vergance of the responsive vector reality where the alterations of the degrees in angle sections as altered by a stable wing quadrance on each side as the vector full volume Force =higher x + 1 values to their responsive oppositions (S) as the 2 x
value system where the basis of the flow responsive vectorisations out of the system =  resistancee by the process to utilise volume conal responses in new designated value vectors =
to the quadrance so that the alterations of the
WING quadrance in a 2 x value QUAD range = a forced 4 quadrance in response of usage of the whole conally cut sections of their wing controll manipulations:
the flow vectors outof the base level conal outeside as being in a interactive weave of the interactions by refunneling into the underside with the complexity of 4 quadrance activations in a simultaneous zone at the tail section.
basics on the side view
0 Comments Leave a comment
May 10, 2010
benabb
1 ,
ASTROPHYSICS ,
building blocks for flying cars ,
CONCEPT ART ,
CONCEPT DESIGN ,
SCIENCE FICTION REALITY ,
space travel ,
THE UNIVERSAL FORCE ,
vechicle astrophysics
H2O motor Shumann ressonance
motorics of water in rotation
By Henryk Szubinski
The  Schumann resonances (SR)
are a set of spectrum peaks in the  extremely low frequency
(ELF) portion of the Earth’s  electromagnetic field
spectrum. Schumann resonances are global electromagnetic  resonances , excited by  lightning
discharges in the cavity formed by the  Earth
surface and the  ionosphere .
using the ressonance on a cylindrical format of the H2O flow into the tubiularity of a rotational force of magnetism that will accellerate the worm hole effects of the H2O flowing through the formats in their sections of rotation to the general constroll by a force sphere in sections that can be multiples:
The Schumann Resonance: All vibrating things in this world have their own, “natural” frequency which they are most comfortable with. When a thing is subjected to an external force that makes it vibrate at a frequency it vibes with the most, the thing responds joyfully, by vibrating at the maximum amplitude (energy). This phenomenon manifests throughout the universe. This natural frequency of that thing or body is known as its “resonating” or “resonant” frequency, and the phenomenon is known as “Resonance”. For those of you who have watched or read The Secret, this will ring familiar. This app aims to attune you to this universal frequency and let the body’s cellular vibrations become aligned to the stationary wave in the environment. It is much like the two leaves of a bascule bridge aligning with each other. That is precisely the time when the consciousness (and aura) gets the chance to expand, go beyond the limitations of the body and spread itself into the vast expanse of the universe beyond. And this is an ineffable experience. When two vibrating systems are in resonance with each other, a rise in amplitude in the waves takes place. In our case, the brain and the global electric circuit resonance leads to a rise in amplitude in the waves dancing in our brain. Rise in amplitude causes a rise in our consciousness energy. Logically, at some point, damping forces set in, which prevent the amplitude to go beyond a certain level. Which is in our best interest too, for this damping protects us from an experience which we may not be prepared for. The trick, therefore, is to keep reaching and touching this amplitude, and gradually increasing its levels.
formats of a frequency vector = frequency occilatory increase by the resistance format in a type stabilised value for solidity
definitions of global spacetime levels of H2O that are non defined:process of liquidifications
definitions global spacetime force  levels of H2O that are non defined process of liquidifications universe
Basic theory
Lightning discharges are considered to be the primary natural source of Schumann resonance excitation; lightning channels behave like huge antennas that radiate  electromagnetic energy
at frequencies below about 100 kHz. [15]
These signals are very weak at large distances from the lightning source, but the earth-ionosphere  waveguide
behaves like a  resonator
at ELF frequencies and amplifies the spectral signals from lightning at the resonance frequencies. [15]
In an ideal cavity, the  resonant frequency
of the  n -th mode  f n
is determined by the  Earth radius
a
and the  speed of light
c . [6]
The real Earth-ionosphere  waveguide
is not a perfect electromagnetic resonant cavity. Losses due to finite ionosphere  electrical conductivity
lower the propagation speed of electromagnetic signals in the cavity, resulting in a resonance frequency that is lower than would be expected in an ideal case, and the observed peaks are wide. In addition, there are a number of horizontal asymmetries – day-night difference in the height of the ionosphere, latitudinal changes in the  Earth magnetic field , sudden ionospheric disturbances, polar cap absorption, etc. that produce other effects in the Schumann resonance power spectra.
definition process
of minimized  force
values of  H2O
responsive to A.I  universe
questioning processess  …
in the  levels
of the  process
connectability of a  spacetime level
= the  …. ecological reasons for a  force non
reference  H2O universe
…
Home of  Wiki
& Reference Answers, the world’s leading Q&A site …. as  …
Home of  Wiki
& Reference Answers, the world’s leading Q&A site · Reference Answers …  …. force
divisive boosting of the interactions by  H2O levels
and limits of  ….
the  process
in compression would then  define
the whole  spacetime
area  …..
spherical diagonality  force transmuted  H2O non
polar molecules  universe
…
What makes these materials suitable for a large-scale chemical  process ?  …..
It is remarkable that this way a rise or fall in sea  levels
will not much change  ….
Without these two elements, sounds do not fit the  definition
of music;  ….
warp  space time
to such an extent? what about time in the early  universe ?  …
a patch of  space-time
foam in our mother  universe
that went through a  process
….
for  H2O to be a  liquid . Life needed a source of  …
due to the strong nuclear  force
provides the gradient that makes fusion and fission  ….
servingly narrow  definition
of intelligence, we are alone (Simpson 1964, Mayr 1995ab). This  …
This is a model that tries to explain the interactions of the  universe
without gravity.  ….. influence of a  force
(electrical or gravitational fields, atmospheric or  liquid
…
of  space, time , and particle types — than the surrounding matter.  …..
That is part of the model I have created to explain this  process .  …
Since the smallest length that can exist in our  universe
is  ……
I do not  define space, time , place and motion, since they are  …
Here ya go  H2O :  …
So one  definition
of curvature is a non -vanishing Riemann tensor.  …..
That Gravity is a direct result of  spacetime
and not a ‘ force ‘ on its own.  …
It does NOT vary energy coming-in  levels .The Previous warming cycle 3100BC to 1200BC  ….. The  process
results in  global
warming (added CO2 adds warming/energy  …
Venus (Earth is zero by  definition ) follows the dominant Jupiter  forces .  ……
This is getting into the Standard Model of the  Universe
(see  Wikipedia )  …
leaves a  global
topology of the  universe
undetermined.  ….
Then, by  definition , an elaston has a minimal entropy and a flat Euclidean space has a  …..
existence of a new mysterious force . If so, one can expect  non
standard effect also on small scales.  ……
which creates liquid
phase  H2O
and gas phase CO2.  …
The higher  levels
of  non -physical consciousness have higher powers.  …..
A less complicated definition
(within both the linear and  non -linear world) of wave  …..
that consciousness may be a relativistic feature of  space-time .  …
quantum system wherein the classical world can originate from quantum  processes .  …
If you suscribe to theories of the  universe
involving  non -locality,  ……
Alternating-current impulses augment naturally occurring vibrations in the  H2O
molecules.  …..
The focal point of this  force
is  defined
as a “neutral center”.  ……
and locations in  spacetime , all here to take a slice of the human pie.  …
It may also change our picture of  spacetime , and do away with dark energy.  ……
Within this definition , we could call Neutrinos dark matter – especially since  ……
the fluid mecanic mgh=i/2mv² more the  non
compressibility of the  liquid
,the  ……
I decided to  define
a Higgs brane which includes all  processes ,  …
Also, your  definition
does not state high or low what.  ……
When I looked up momentum on Wikipedia , it gave the equation: mass X velocity.  ……
If the  force
of gravity can be  defined as the curvature of  spacetime ,  ……
This will be a pretty violent  process
on the microscopic level
and some atoms and clusters  …
A: The Lorentz  force
_F of an electric field _E on a charge q is _F = q  …..
Q: My  level
: High school physics plus lots of reading of undergraduate textbooks in physics.  …..
A: I could not define
the terms better than  wikipedia
does,  …..
Q: i studied some the derivations and calculations about  space time
when  …
Climate change, he shows, is an almost entirely natural  process
on which human influence ……
The  universe
and life are not products of blind  forces
of nature,  ……
there is no positive H2O -temperature feedback on  global
scale: in  ……
implied assumption where the  definition of “climate change” includes the  …
But in an all-natural  process
theory, those large particles would not shoot out in  ……
as a force
it is so reliable in its measurable  levels
it needs no  ……
Believe me: This isn’t nearly as hard to understand as  spacetime , especially  ……
Note: My dictionary’s  definition
for dewpoint — “the temperature at  …
I already said how to  define
all the units just starting from the  Force ,  ……
that two H2 molecules also release about the same when they burn to form two  H2O .  …..
Assuming humans eventually find a workable quantum theory of  spacetime ,  …..
It is not the estimated age of the  universe , although the figures are  …
I think I’ll just keep cranking at my little light as  space-time
rippling and  …..
Does electric-field motion occur at the molecular  level
causing light emission?  ….
In the  process
of going from zero to some  non -zero value for the  ……
the facts of the laws that  define
the way  forces
work within our  universe ,  …
and  global
researchers wherever possible. In an optimum way,  …
taught by one of us at various  levels
for more than thirty years.  …
are characterized by the restoring  force
varying non -linearly with displacement. As a result, the oscillation  ……
SG equation maintains ‘ space-time
symmetry’ in the sense that it  …
Schumann resonances on other planets
The existence of Schumann-like resonances is conditioned primarily by two factors: (1) a closed, planetary-sized spherical cavity, consisting of conducting lower and upper boundaries separated by an insulating medium. For the earth the conducting lower boundary is its surface, and the upper boundary is the ionosphere. Other planets may have similar electrical conductivity geometry, so it is speculated that they should possess similar resonant behavior. (2) source of electrical excitation of  electromagnetic waves
in the ELF range. Within the  Solar System
there are five candidates for Schumann resonance detection besides the Earth:  Venus ,  Mars ,  Jupiter ,  Saturn
and its moon  Titan .
Modeling Schumann resonances on the  planets
and  moons
of the  Solar System
is complicated by the lack of knowledge of the  waveguide
parameters. No in situ capability exists today to validate the results, but in the case of Mars there have been terrestrial observations of radio emission spectra that suggest the presence of Schumann resonances [38]
and there is the possibility that future lander missions could carry in situ instrumentation to perform the necessary measurements. Theoretical studies are primarily directed to parameterizing the problem for future planetary explorers.
The strongest evidence for lightning on Venus comes from the impulsive  electromagnetic waves
detected by  Venera
11 and 12 landers. Theoretical calculations of the Schumann resonances at Venus were reported by Nickolaenko and Rabinowicz [1982] [39]
and Pechony and Price [2004]. [40]
Both studies yielded very close results, indicating that Schumann resonances should be easily detectable on this  planet
given a lightning source of excitation and a suitably located sensor.
On  Mars
detection of lightning activity has been reported by Ruf et al. [2009] [38] , confirming the possibility of charge separation and lightning strokes in the Martian dust storms considered by Eden and Vonnegut [1973] [41]
and Renno et al. [2003] [42]
. Martian global resonances were modeled by Sukhorukov [1991], [43]
Pechony and Price [2004] [40]
and Molina-Cuberos et al. [2006] [44]
. The results of the three studies are somewhat different, but it seems that at least the first two Schumann resonance modes should be detectable. Evidence of the first three Schumann resonance modes is present in the spectra of radio emission from the lightning detected in Martian dust storms [38] .
It was long ago suggested that lightning dischargers may occur on Titan [45]
, but recent data from  Cassini-Huygens
seems to indicate that there is no lightning activity on this largest  satellite
of  Saturn . Due to the recent interest in Titan, associated with the  Cassini-Huygens
mission, its ionosphere is perhaps the most thoroughly modeled today. Schumann resonances on Titan have received more attention than on other  celestial
body, in works by Besser et al. [2002] [46]
, Morente et al. [2003] [47]
, Molina-Cuberos et al. [2004] [48]
, Nickolaenko et al. [2003] [49]
and Pechony and Price [2004] [40]
. It appears that only the first Schumann resonance mode might be detectable on  Titan .
Jupiter
is the only planet where lightning activity has been optically detected. Existence of lightning activity on this planet was predicted by Bar-Nun [1975] [50]
and it is now supported by data from Galileo ,  Voyagers
1 and 2,  Pioneers
10 and 11 and Cassini.  Saturn
is also expected to have intensive lightning activity, but the three visiting spacecrafts –  Pioneer 11
in 1979,  Voyager 1
in 1980 and Voyager 2
in 1981, failed to provide any convincing evidence from optical observations. The strong storm monitored on  Saturn
by the  Cassini spacecraft
produced no visible lightning flashes, although electromagnetic sensors aboard the spacecraft detected signatures that are characteristic of lightning. Little is known about the electrical parameters of  Jupiter
and  Saturn
interior. Even the question of what should serve as the lower  waveguide
boundary is a non-trivial one in case of the gaseous planets. There seem to be no works dedicated to Schumann resonances on  Saturn . To date there has been only one attempt to model Schumann resonances on  Jupiter . [51]
Here, the electrical conductivity profile within the gaseous atmosphere of Jupiter was calculated using methods similar to those used to model stellar interiors, and it was pointed out that the same methods could be easily extended to the other gas giants Saturn, Uranus and Neptune. Given the intense lightning activity at Jupiter, the Schumann resonances should be easily detectable with a sensor suitably positioned within the planetary-ionospheric cavity.
0 Comments Leave a comment
May 10, 2010
benabb
1 ,
ASTROPHYSICS ,
building blocks for flying cars ,
CONCEPT ART ,
CONCEPT DESIGN ,
SCIENCE FICTION REALITY ,
space travel ,
THE UNIVERSAL FORCE ,
vechicle astrophysics
0 Comments Leave a comment
May 10, 2010
benabb
Uncategorized
Post navigation
Older posts
May 2010
M
T
W
T
F
S
S
« Apr
Jun »
1 2
3 4 5 6 7 8 9
10 11 12 13 14 15 16
17 18 19 20 21 22 23
24 25 26 27 28 29 30
31
Blog at WordPress.com .
|
The Flounder Theme .
SCIFIre@lismQuest.com
Blog at WordPress.com .
The Flounder Theme .
Follow
Follow “SCIFIre@lismQuest.com”
Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.
Build a website with WordPress.com
Add your thoughts here... (optional)
Post to
Cancel