edzbert traya
edzbert traya
Tuesday, January 4, 2011
magic pool??
How One Man and His Village Became Guardians of a Magic Pool The magical hippo pool (credit: Addison Fischer).
This is the story of Yahaya Selemani, who lives in a small isolated
village in southern Tanzania, near Lindi on the coast. For nearly a
hundred years, since the Germans left what was then German East Africa
after World War I, Yahaya and his family, with the support of the
villagers, have acted as guardians to a group of hippopotamus and the
sacred place where they live, a wetlands area surrounded by tall rain
forest trees. This utterly pristine area, complete with elephants,
buffalo, lions, sables, roan antelope, and many more animals, is part of
a much larger ecosystem comprising miles and miles—about thirty-seven
thousand acres—of dry Miombo woodlands. I spent three days there in
August 2008, driving through the woodlands and looking out over a wide
river valley and hills in the distance. None of this is part of any
reserve or national park, and yet it is virtually unspoiled.
Tanzania’s President Kikweti promised to develop southern Tanzania
during his years in office, and Yahaya has worried that this land he
loves may be destroyed by charcoal burners or taken over by wealthy
hunting safari companies. Fortunately, though, both the local government
and most of the inhabitants of the few villages that are scattered in
the area are anxious to preserve their environment, while opening it up
to controlled ecotourism. And this is where my son, Hugo van
Lawick—still known as Grub—comes into the picture. With the full support
of the Tanzanian government and of the villagers, he and his two
partners—James Lubella, the highly respected Member of Parliament for
Kahama region and onetime member of the board of Tanzania National
Parks, and Alfred Moser, who ran a very successful safari camp in the
Selous Game Reserve—have established the Jane Goodall’s Tanzania safari
company. The operation will have minimum impact on the environment, and
it will employ only people from the surrounding villages. Every effort
will be made to secure funding for schools, dispensaries, and other
benefits for the local communities. Somehow we must help Yahaya to
preserve the hippos in their sacred pool.
I shall always remember the first time I went there, with Grub. It is
quiet, peaceful, as we walk under the tall rain forest trees with their
gnarled trunks and trailing vines. We sit on the bank where the clear
waters from a hidden spring have widened into a large pool. We do not
sit too close to the edge of the water—there are some very large
crocodiles in the pool! The light, filtering down through the canopy
overhead, is a soft green, but the trees opposite catch the
late-afternoon sunlight, and the green of their leaves is bright
emerald. All this greenness is reflected in the surface of the pool. A
gentle breeze ripples the water and sways the branches overhead so that
their reflections undulate deep down in the mysterious upside-down world
into which I am gazing.
In the center of this forest pool are the hippos, twenty-one of them
in all. A baby, about five months old, is riding on his mother’s back,
resting as she floats in the water. Every so often one of the hippos
sinks quietly out of sight for a few minutes, then emerges with loud
snorts and a spray of water from the nostrils. Quite suddenly the
peaceful scene erupts with loud splashing and the sound of breath
noisily exhaled from twenty-one pairs of nostrils. The hippos move and
re-form, clustering close together, staring at the man who has
approached quietly and begun to speak. It is Yahaya and he is speaking,
quite loudly, in Kiswahili. He is talking to the hippos—and they listen.
He tells them that he will always respect, honor, and try to protect
them. He asks that they, in turn, will protect his people from the
crocodiles when they are fishing. And he hopes they will feed well and
safely that night. The hippos are quite silent as they listen, and they
do not submerge—not one of them, not once. And then, after a few
minutes, he stops talking. There is an immediate chorus of resonant
grunts, and the water swirls, and the hippos move again and get on with
what they were doing before. Floating and sinking, waggling their ears,
frenziedly waggling their tails as they spread their dung, fertilizing
the water of the pool.
The colors in the water dim as the sun sinks lower. White flowers
that have dropped from the trees above float like lotus blossoms on the
surface of the water among red and yellow fallen leaves that scud across
the pool as a soft wind blows. Loud calling birds fly low overhead to
roost. There are open-bill storks and ibis. A goliath kingfisher alights
on a branch over the water. A pair of smaller black-and-white
kingfishers fly past. Opposite, yellow baboons are moving into the trees
where they will sleep. The hippos carry on with their watery lives,
hippo fashion.
Yahaya and Jane watching the hippos (credit: Addison Fischer).
World rights cleared and release enclosed. Soon Yahaya tells us it is time to go. The young hippo needs much
time to feed at night, he says, and the adults will not leave the pool
until we are gone. As we follow him, we disturb a very large crocodile,
who slides silently into the water. We can see just his eyes and
nostrils as he swims ahead of his V-shaped wake. We cross an open sandy
area, then follow a narrow trail through the trees to our small camp.
Later we gather around the campfire. Grub with James and Alfred.
Addison Fischer, a JGI board member with a passion for saving
ecosystems. Chantal and Becky, who are helping Grub and Alfred with the
company. And my grandchildren, Merlin and Angel, their half brother
Kika, and James’s daughter, Jazzi. We eat well and then, with a full
moon above us, Yahaya tells us his story. He inherited his role of hippo
guardian from his father, who had inherited it from his father—and so
on, right back through time to the days of First Hippo. First Hippo was
one of Yahaya’s ancestors who so loved the water that he could not bear
to leave it. Every time his family went to visit him, a part of him had
changed—his nose, his eyes, his ears. Finally, when they went, they saw
only First Hippo. And they promised to protect the hippopotamus tribe
and honor them forever. Thus has Yahaya’s role been handed down through
the centuries. His wife shares the duties with her husband, but when she
goes to visit the hippos in their pool, she sings to them. Grub tells
me he has heard her singing. Once a year, Yahaya says, the villagers
gather on the open sandy clearing that we had crossed earlier, and they
feast and dance and celebrate their relationship with the hippos.
Before we left the next day, I went one more time to the hippo pool and sat there quietly, alone, that I might never forget.
Posted by
edzbert ciupan traya
at
5:36 AM
No comments:
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share to Pinterest
Monday, September 27, 2010
roots
Specialized roots
Aerating roots of a
mangrove
The growing tip of a fine root
The stilt roots of
Socratea exorrhiza The roots, or parts of roots, of many plant species have become specialized to serve adaptive purposes besides the two primary functions described in the introduction.
Adventitious roots
arise out-of-sequence from the more usual root formation of branches of a primary root, and instead originate from the stem, branches, leaves, or old woody roots. They commonly occur in
monocots
and pteridophytes, but also in many
dicots , such as
clover
( Trifolium ),
ivy
( Hedera ),
strawberry
( Fragaria ) and
willow
( Salix ). Most aerial roots and stilt roots are adventitious. In some conifers adventitious roots can form the largest part of the root system.
Aerating roots
(or
knee root
or
knee
or
pneumatophores
or
Cypress knee ): roots rising above the ground, especially above water such as in some
mangrove
genera ( Avicennia ,
Sonneratia ). In some plants like
Avicennia
the erect roots have a large number of breathing pores for exchange of gases.
Aerial roots : roots entirely above the ground, such as in ivy ( Hedera ) or in
epiphytic
orchids . They function as prop roots, as in
maize
or anchor roots or as the trunk in
strangler fig .
Contractile roots : they pull bulbs or corms of
monocots , such as
hyacinth
and
lily , and some
taproots , such as
dandelion , deeper in the soil through expanding radially and contracting longitudinally. They have a wrinkled surface.
Coarse roots : Roots that have undergone secondary thickening and have a woody structure. These roots have some ability to absorb water and nutrients, but their main function is transport and to provide a structure to connect the smaller diameter, fine roots to the rest of the plant.
Fine roots : Primary roots usually <2 mm diameter that have the function of water and nutrient uptake. They are often heavily branched and support mycorrhizas. These roots may be short lived, but are replaced by the plant in an ongoing process of root 'turnover'.
Haustorial roots : roots of parasitic plants that can absorb water and nutrients from another plant, such as in
mistletoe
( Viscum album ) and
dodder .
Propagative roots : roots that form adventitious buds that develop into aboveground shoots, termed
suckers , which form new plants, as in
Canada thistle ,
cherry
and many others.
Proteoid roots
or cluster roots: dense clusters of rootlets of limited growth that develop under low
phosphate
or low
iron
conditions in
Proteaceae
and some plants from the following families
Betulaceae ,
Casuarinaceae ,
Elaeagnaceae ,
Moraceae ,
Fabaceae
and
Myricaceae .
Stilt roots : these are adventitious support roots, common among
mangroves . They grow down from lateral branches, branching in the soil.
Storage roots : these roots are modified for storage of food or water, such as
carrots
and
beets . They include some
taproots
and tuberous roots.
Structural roots : large roots that have undergone considerable secondary thickening and provide mechanical support to woody plants and trees.
Surface roots : These proliferate close below the soil surface, exploiting water and easily available nutrients. Where conditions are close to optimum in the surface layers of soil, the growth of surface roots is encouraged and they commonly become the dominant roots.
Tuberous roots : A portion of a root swells for food or water storage, e.g.
sweet potato . A type of storage root distinct from taproot...
Posted by
edzbert ciupan traya
at
8:52 PM
No comments:
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share to Pinterest
Bio 211
Plant stem
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to:
navigation ,
search
Stem showing
internode
and nodes plus leaf
petioles A
stem
is one of two main structural axes of a
vascular plant . The stem is normally divided into nodes and internodes, the nodes hold
buds
which grow into one or more
leaves ,
inflorescence
(flowers),
cones
or other stems etc. The internodes distance one node from another. The term
shoots
is often confused with stems; shoots generally refer to new fresh plant growth and does include stems but also to other structures like leaves or flowers. The other main structural axis of plants is the
root . In most plants stems are located above the soil surface but some plants have
underground stems .
Stems have four main functions which are: [ 1 ]
Support for and the elevation of leaves,
flowers
and
fruits . The stems keep the leaves in the light and provide a place for the plant to keep its flowers and fruits.
Transport of fluids between the roots and the shoots in the
xylem
and
phloem .
Storage of nutrients.
The production of new living tissue. The normal life span of plant cells is one to three years. Stems have cells called
meristems
that annually generate new living tissue.
Contents [ hide ] 1
Specialized terms for stems
2
Stem structure
2.1
Dicot stems
2.2
Monocot stems
2.3
Gymnosperm stems
2.4
Fern stems
3
Economic importance
4
References
[ edit ]
Specialized terms for stems Stems are often specialized for storage, asexual reproduction, protection or photosynthesis, including the following:
Acaulescent - used to describe stems in plants that appear to be stemless. Actually these stems are just extremely short, the leaves appearing to rise directly out of the ground, e.g. some
Viola
species.
Arborescent
- tree like with woody stems normally with a single trunk.
Bud
- an embryonic shoot with immature stem tip.
Bulb
- a short vertical underground stem with fleshy storage leaves attached, e.g.
onion ,
daffodil ,
tulip . Bulbs often function in reproduction by splitting to form new bulbs or producing small new bulbs termed bulblets. Bulbs are a combination of stem and leaves so may better be considered as leaves because the leaves make up the greater part.
Caespitose - when stems grow in a tangled mass or clump or in low growing mats.
Cladophyll
- a flattened stem that appears leaf like and is specialized for photosynthesis, e.g.
asparagus ,
cactus
pads.
Climbing
- stems that cling or wrap around other plants or structures.
Corm
- a short enlarged underground, storage stem, e.g.
taro ,
crocus ,
gladiolus .
Decumbent - stems that lie flat on the ground and turn upwards at the ends.
Fruticose - stems that grow shrub like with woody like habit.
Herbaceous
- non woody, they die at the end of the growing season.
Pseudostem - A false stem made of the rolled bases of leaves, which may be 2 or 3 m tall as in
banana
Rhizome
- a horizontal underground stem that functions mainly in reproduction but also in storage, e.g. most
ferns ,
iris
Runner (plant part)
- a type of stolon, horizontally growing on top of the ground and rooting at the nodes, aids in reproduction. e.g.
strawberry ,
spider plant .
Scape
- a stem that holds flowers that comes out of the ground and has no normal leaves.
Hosta ,
Lily ,
Iris .
Stolon
- a horizontal stem that produces rooted plantlets at its nodes and ends, forming near the surface of the ground.
Spine
- a modified leaf with a sharp point and rounded shape, used for protection against animals. e.g.
honey locust ,
hawthorn .
Thorn
- a modified stem protruding from the axils of a plant. Used for protection against animals, though animals have adapted. (i.e. an animal will have a long tongue to reach past the thorns)
Tree
- a woody stem that is longer than 5 meters with a main
trunk .
Tuber
- a swollen, underground storage stem adapted for storage and reproduction, e.g.
potato .
Woody
- hard textured stems with secondary xylem.
[ edit ]
Stem structure
Flax
stem cross-section, showing locations of underlying tissues. Ep =
epidermis ; C =
cortex ; BF =
bast fibres ; P =
phloem ; X =
xylem ; Pi =
pith See also:
Stele (biology) Stem usually consist of three tissues,
dermal tissue ,
ground tissue
and
vascular tissue . The dermal tissue covers the outer surface of the stem and usually functions to waterproof, protect and control gas exchange. The ground tissue usually consists mainly of parenchyma cells and fills in around the vascular tissue. It sometimes functions in photosynthesis. Vascular tissue provides long distance transport and structural support. Most or all ground tissue may be lost in woody stems. The dermal tissue of aquatic plants stems may lack the waterproofing found in aerial stems. The arrangement of the vascular tissues varies widely among plant species.
[ edit ]
Dicot stems Dicot
stems with primary growth have pith in the center, with vascular bundles forming a distinct ring visible when the stem is viewed in cross section. The outside of the stem is covered with an epidermis, which is covered by a waterproof cuticle. The epidermis also may contain
stomata
for gas exchange and multicellular stem hairs. A cortex consisting of Hypodermis (collenchyma cells) and Endodermis (starch containing cells)is present above the pericycle and vascular bundles.
Woody dicots and many nonwoody dicots have
secondary growth
originating from their lateral or secondary meristems: the
vascular cambium
and the
cork cambium
or phellogen. The vascular cambium forms between the xylem and phloem in the vascular bundles and connects to form a continuous cylinder. The vascular cambium cells divide to produce
secondary xylem
to the inside and
secondary phloem
to the outside. As the stem increases in diameter due to production of secondary xylem and secondary phloem, the cortex and epidermis are eventually destroyed. Before the cortex is destroyed, a cork cambium develops there. The cork cambium divides to produce waterproof cork cells externally and sometimes phelloderm cells internally. Those three tissues form the
periderm , which replaces the epidermis in function. Areas of loosely packed cells in the periderm that function in gas exchange are called lenticels.
Secondary
xylem
is commercially important as
wood . The seasonal variation in growth from the
vascular cambium
is what creates yearly tree rings in temperate climates. Tree rings are the basis of
dendrochronology , which dates wooden objects and associated artifacts.
Dendroclimatology
is the use of tree rings as a record of past climates. The aerial stem of an adult
tree
is called a
trunk . The dead, usually darker inner wood of a large diameter trunk is termed the
heartwood
and is the result of
tylosis . The outer, living wood is termed the
sapwood .
[ edit ]
Monocot stems
Stems of two
Roystonea regia
palms showing characteristic bulge, leaf scars and fibrous roots,
Kolkata, India Vascular bundles are present throughout the
monocot
stem, although concentrated towards the outside. This differs from the dicot stem that has a ring of vascular bundles and often none in the center. The shoot apex in monocot stems is more elongated. Leaf sheathes grow up around it, protecting it. This is true to some extent of almost all monocots. Monocots rarely produce secondary growth and are therefore seldom woody, with
Palms
and
Bamboo
being notable exceptions. However, many monocot stems increase in diameter via anamolous
secondary growth .
[ edit ]
Gymnosperm stems
The trunk of this
redwood
tree is its stem. All
gymnosperms
are woody plants. Their stems are similar in structure to woody dicots except that most gymnosperms produce only
tracheids
in their xylem, not the vessels found in dicots. Gymnosperm wood also often contains
resin
ducts. Woody dicots are called hardwoods, e.g.
oak ,
maple
and
walnut . In contrast, softwoods are gymnosperms, such as
pine ,
spruce
and
fir .
Tasmanian tree fern [ edit ]
Fern stems Most
ferns
have
rhizomes
with no vertical stem. The exception is
tree ferns , with vertical stems up to about 20 meters. The stem anatomy of ferns is more complicated than that of dicots because fern stems often have one or more leaf gaps in cross section. A leaf gap is where the vascular tissue branches off to a
frond . In cross section, the vascular tissue does not form a complete cylinder where a leaf gap occurs. Fern stems may have
solenosteles
or
dictyosteles
or variations of them. Many fern stems have phloem tissue on both sides of the xylem in cross-section. .
Economic importance
White and green
asparagus
- crispy stems are the edible parts of this vegetable There are thousands of species whose stems have economic uses. Stems provide a few major staple crops such as
potato
and
taro .
Sugarcane
stems are a major source of sugar.
Maple sugar
is obtained from trunks of
maple
trees.
Vegetables
from stems are
asparagus ,
bamboo shoots , cactus pads or
nopalitos ,
kohlrabi , and
water chestnut . The spice,
cinnamon
is bark from a tree trunk. Cellulose from tree trunks is a food additive in bread, grated Parmesan cheese, and other processed foods.
Gum arabic
is an important food additive obtained from the trunks of
Acacia senegal
trees.
Chicle , the main ingredient in
chewing gum , is obtained from trunks of the chicle tree.
Medicines obtained from stems include
quinine
from the bark of
cinchona
trees,
camphor
distilled from wood of a tree in the same genus that provides cinnamon, and the muscle relaxant
curare
from the bark of tropical vines.
Wood
is a used in thousands of ways, e.g.
buildings ,
furniture ,
boats ,
airplanes ,
wagons ,
car
parts,
musical instruments ,
sports equipment ,
railroad ties ,
utility poles , fence posts,
pilings ,
toothpicks ,
matches ,
plywood ,
coffins ,
shingles ,
barrel
staves,
toys ,
tool
handles,
picture frames ,
veneer ,
charcoal
and
firewood .
Wood pulp
is widely used to make
paper ,
paperboard ,
cellulose
sponges,
cellophane
and some important
plastics
and
textiles , such as
cellulose acetate
and
rayon .
Bamboo
stems also have hundreds of uses, including paper, buildings, furniture, boats, musical instruments,
fishing poles ,
water pipes , plant stakes, and
scaffolding . Trunks of
palm trees
and
tree ferns
are often used for building.
Reed
stems are also important building materials in some areas.
Tannins
used for tanning
leather
are obtained from the wood of certain trees, such as
quebracho .
Cork
is obtained from the bark of the
cork oak .
Rubber
is obtained from the trunks of
Hevea brasiliensis .
Rattan , used for furniture and baskets, is made from the stems of tropical vining palms.
Bast fibers
for textiles and rope are obtained from stems include
flax ,
hemp ,
jute
and
ramie . The earliest paper was obtained from the stems of
papyrus
by the ancient Egyptians.
Amber
is fossilized sap from tree trunks; it is used for
jewelry
and may contain ancient animals. Resins from conifer wood are used to produce
turpentine
and
rosin . Tree bark is often used as a
mulch
and in growing media for container plants. It also can become the natural
habitat
of
lichens .
Some ornamental plants are grown mainly for their attractive stems, e.g.:
White bark of
paper birch
Twisted branches of
corkscrew willow
and
Harry Lauder's walking stick
( Corylus avellana
'Contorta')
Red, peeling bark of
paperbark maple
Posted by
edzbert ciupan traya
at
8:45 PM
No comments:
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share to Pinterest
Friday, September 17, 2010
quiz bowl
Round 1 NLSC 2005 Quiz Bowl Page 1
QUIZ BOWL
National Question Bank
Round 1 – 2005
# Cat. Question Answer
1. C When the proposed constitution for the European
Union was defeated in France this May, the
French President was publicly and politically
embarrassed. He quickly dismissed Jean-Pierre
Rafarin and replaced him with Dominique de
Villepin. What job title does Villepin now hold?
Prime Minister of France
2. A In botany, this word means a mixed variety. In
automotive technology, it means a dual-fuel
engine. Spell hybrid.
H-Y-B-R-I-D
3. A
M
Add the figures 92 + 35+ 14 + 8. 149
4. PD Laura Bush applies for SkillsUSA membership.
As a certified educator, she can hold a professional
membership. But her functions at a conference are
restricted. Name one of three restrictions on her
SkillsUSA activities.
Can not vote as a
national delegate; hold
national office; or
represent state at
national activities
5. C Who has been in the news recently and dubbed the
“runaway bride”?
Jennifer Wilbanks
6. PD Negotiating is a vital skill in today’s economy. In
the Starter level of the PDP, activity 2 involves a
simulated negotiating environment in which a
team negotiates over a jar of what?
Jelly beans (the number
in a jar)
7. A This word can mean a form of prejudice, or fabric
that is cut diagonally across the grain. What is the
word?
Bias (BY-us)
Round 1 NLSC 2005 Quiz Bowl Page 2
8. A
M
Suppose Midwest Trophy offered a discount of
20% to new chapters on their first order. If one
were to buy two blazers that usually retail for $75
each, what would be the total price before
applicable sales tax?
$120
9. C What “That 70’s Show” star is playing one of the
two villains in the release of “Spider-Man 3”?
Topher Grace
10. PD SkillsUSA was not the first national organization
of trade and industrial education students. What
was the name of its 1920’s predecessor?
Future Craftsmen of
America
11. A Sometimes sleazy and sometimes uniquely
democratic, these meetings have been held since
the beginning of our political system to form
policy and nominate candidates. What is the
singular form of the word for these political
meetings?
Caucus
12. C The Supreme Court overturned the lower court
conviction of the Arthur Anderson accounting firm
in May. The firm had been convicted in the Enron
scandals because they shredded documents
referring to Enron. What was the crime of
shredding called?
Obstruction of justice
13. C This singer recently reached number one on the
Billboard singles list for the sixteenth time. Who
is now behind The Beatles and Elvis for the most
number ones with her song We Belong Together?
Mariah Carey
14. A Ancient law often was written on stone to preserve
it. The Romans used a series of such stones to
maintain the Pax Romana. What term is used for
these ancient Roman stones?
The 12 Tablets
(accept 12 Tables)
15. A Plant cells need to regulate water loss to live.
Water leaves through holes called stomata. What
device closes the stomata to retain water?
Guard cells
Round 1 NLSC 2005 Quiz Bowl Page 3
16. C What is the Pope’s email address? benedictxvi@vatican.va
17. PD The keynote speaker at last night’s Opening
General Session is a sports analyst for ABC
Sports. At which university did he last serve as
head football coach?
Auburn University
18. A On the Mohs (moe’s) Hardness scale, talc is the
softest mineral and diamond is the hardest. What
is the second softest mineral?
Gypsum
19. A
M
An infant you are weighing for a pediatrician
weighs in at a hearty 22 pounds. What weight will
you record if the doctor requires the weight to be
written in kilograms?
10 kilograms
20. PD What item is required to be submitted by all
contestants, except Action Skills and Building
Maintenance, for the first time in 2005?
A one page type-written
resume
(accept resume)
21. A Recently we sent a mission from the third rock
from the sun to the fourth: from Earth to Mars. In
order, what are the first and second rocks from the
sun in our system?
Mercury and Venus (in
that order)
22. C Who is the host of the Extreme Makeover Home
Edition?
Ty Pennington
23. C Who did Kenny Chesney recently marry? Renee Zellwigger
24. A The Grapes of Wrath chronicles one of America’s
greatest challenges. The novel follows a family
that moves to escape the Great Depression. Who
wrote the work?
John Steinbeck
25. PD To access the Champions magazine online you
need a username and password. What is the
password to access the Summer 2005 issue?
Pride
Round 1 NLSC 2005 Quiz Bowl Page 4
26. A Baking soda and baking powder are different
chemical compounds, but they act in the same way
in baking. What do these compounds provide in
baked goods?
Leavening (make dough
rise)
27. PD Identify the 2-word term that describes the process
of labor and management representatives
discussing what they expect from each other in the
work place.
Collective bargaining
28. A The auto technology profession has several
licensing exams. One that is accepted across the
country is the ASE exam battery. What does ASE
stand for?
Automotive Service
Excellence
29. C Intel, AT&T and other technology companies have
announced a new wireless internet service
powerful enough to send a signal 5 miles. What
will this service be called?
WiMax
30. PD You all know about the leadership institutes for
students. What is the name of the training that
adult advisors can take to learn how to run a
chapter?
Chapter Management
Institute or CMI
31. A When chemists name ternary acids, what does the
prefix “h-y-p-o” added to an acid tell about its
chemical structure, compared to the version
without the prefix?
h-y-p-o has 2 fewer
oxygen atoms
32. A
M
You take out a short-term loan to furnish your
office. The interest rate is 4.25% compounded
once during the term of the loan, and you spend
$12,000. If the furniture vendor allows you to pay
in one lump sum at the end of two years, for how
much will you write the pay-off check?
$13,020
(12,000 plus 510 for
each of 2 years)
Round 1 NLSC 2005 Quiz Bowl Page 5
33. PD Secondary President Carolyn Kimbrel was
SkillsUSA’s representative recently in
Washington, DC to talk about the benefits of
CTSO’s. She participated in a panel discussion
that was moderated by the Assistant Secretary for
the US Dept of Education’s Office of Vocational
and Adult Education. Name the Assistant
Secretary who attended last year’s National
Leadership and Skills Conference.
Susan Sclafani
34. C How many cardinals participated in the conclave
that elected Pope Benedict XVI?
115
35. A As we watch weather forecasts, we often see
letters H and L on the map. Meteorologists
measure air pressure to find these highs and lows.
Name and spell the instrument used to measure air
pressure.
Barometer and
B-A-R-O-M-E-T-E-R
36. PD What part of a letter begins two lines below the
salutation?
Body
37. C Post 9/11 security has made it harder to smuggle
which illegal drug into the US, resulting in a
decline in its popularity.
Ecstasy
38. A A unique feature of the amendments to the U.S.
Constitution is that one offsets a preceding
addition. What are the numbers of these
amendments AND what is their topic?
18th and 21st and
Prohibition
39. PD What type of membership in SkillsUSA is offered
to former active members who are no longer
enrolled in trade, industrial, technology or health
occupations programs?
Alumni membership
40. PD To bring up an item of business, you must go
through the steps of processing what type of
motion?
Main Motion
41. C Name the creator of Star Wars. George Lucas
Round 1 NLSC 2005 Quiz Bowl Page 6
42. A The legendary Brown v. Board case might not
have made it to the Supreme Court without the
backing of the defense fund from which national
civil rights group?
The NAACP
43. A Egypt had them. China had them. Even television
had one as an hour –long series. What is the Dword
for a long-term ruling family?
dynasty
44. C Minnesota and California are offering HOT lanes
for motorist and several other states are
considering them. What are HOT lanes?
High Occupancy Toll
lanes
45. PD Chapters this year could earn national recognition
by participating in the Student2Student Mentoring
Program. What grade levels are appropriate for
being mentored by your chapter?
Elementary and middle
school (grades below
high school)
46. A You’re adding a second floor to your loft office.
The second floor will be 20 feet up. Your
carpenter says the run of the stairs will be 25 feet.
What is the minimum floor room on the first floor
that will be used to install the stairs?
15 feet (25 squared
divided by 20 squared or
the 3-4-5 rule)
47. PD Name 2 of the three services provided to student
members through the SkillsUSA Employment
Network.
Job hunting resources
Online résumé posting
Job listings from
national partners
48. PD How many hours of work must be documented to
complete the International Degree of the PDP?
960
49. A Which kind of Diabetes is commonly known as
juvenile diabetes?
Type One Diabetes
50. C A recent article deals with runners entering
“ultramarathons”. What is the definition given in
USA Today for an ultramarathon?
Any race longer than the
standard 26.2 miles of a
road marathon.
(Answer must include
26.2)
Round 1 NLSC 2005 Quiz Bowl Page 7
51. PD A member of the Quiz Bowl team was honored at
Opening Session as the 2005 Advisor of the Year.
Name the member of the Quiz Bowl team who
received this honor and the state he represents.
Richard Carter of
Delaware
52. A
M
If today’s rate of exchange between U. S. dollars
and the Euro is one dollar equals .841 Euros, to the
nearest whole Euro, how many Euros will I
receive for 224 dollars?
189 (to the nearest
whole)
accept:
188.48
or
188.476
53. C Blogs, or Web Logs, are very much in use today
by the general public. A recent article in USA
Today refers to ‘Milbloggers’. To what does this
refer?
Blogs by active military
personnel from Iraq and
Afghanistan
54. A When Madrid was hit by terrorist bombings,
which peninsula felt the impact of terrorism?
The Iberian Peninsula
55. PD Which section of the official SkillsUSA magazine
Champions features photos contributed by local
chapters?
Image
56. A Wide-screen televisions require movies to be
shown in a different format than regular
televisions. What is this movie format called?
Letterbox
57. PD One contest for SkillsUSA has a February 1
deadline. The winner will receive recognition and
monetary prizes for this contest. What is it?
The National Conference
Pin Design Contest
58. C Noted author Saul Bellow recently died at the age
of 89. Identify one of the 2 major international
awards he received for his work.
Nobel Prize (for
literature)
Or
Pulitzer Prize
59. A When the U. S. halted the shuttle program, which
nation stepped in to launch missions to keep the
space station operating and supplied?
Russia (not the USSR)
Round 1 NLSC 2005 Quiz Bowl Page 8
60. C Pop star Brittany Spears has announced that she
and her husband are expecting their first child.
Name her husband.
Kevin Federline
61. A
M
Add the number of weeks and months in a year
plus the number of days in June.
94
62. PD Of all the contests held this week, in which contest
can a member compete in black jeans?
None – jeans are never
acceptable
63. C A decision by the Supreme Court to allow
interstate shipping was recently toasted by what
industry?
Wine industry
64. PD What is the type of move that is a transfer to a
different department or another classification in
the same pay grade?
Lateral move
65. A About 85 per cent of the cholesterol in your body
is endogenous (en-DODGE- in-us). What does
endogenous mean?
Produced in your body;
not from an outside
source
66. C Who is the controversial chairman of the
Democratic National Committee and what is his
home state?
Howard Dean
Vermont
67. C Identify the horse that won 2 of the 3 legs of this
year’s Triple Crown and one of the races the horse
won.
Afleet Alex
And either
Belmont Stakes or
The Preakness
68. A
M
Multiply 3/4 by 7/8 21/32
69. A
M
If the number of SkillsUSA students were
increased by 4, there would be 16 of them. How
many students were there in the beginning?
12
70. PD What garment item should be removed
immediately when coming indoors?
Hats or caps
Round 1 NLSC 2005 Quiz Bowl Page 9
71. A There are two types of computer software. One is
operation software. What is the other?
Application software
72. C The federal government recently released changes
to its traditional food pyramid. The pyramid,
initially introduced in 1992 is widely used in the
study of nutrition. Which government agency
handles the pyramid?
USDA
(Department of
Agriculture)
73. C A student from California won this year’s Scripps
Spelling Bee. Give his age and grade.
13
8th grade
74. A Mohandas Gandhi led the movement that won
India its independence from what country?
Great Britain
75. PD On what document is the phrase “Furnished upon
request” often used?
Resume
76. PD Younger workers have the highest rates of work
related deaths, injuries and illnesses. According to
the SkillsUSA’s “Champions” magazine, how
many young workers are injured on the job
annually?
200,000
77. A What swimming stroke was originated in 1935 by
University of Iowa swimming coach David A.
Armbruster?
Butterfly
78. C According to a USA Today cover story, the
median price for a house in the US topped what
amount for the first time ever.
$200,000
79. A Who painted the famous “American Gothic” Grant Wood
80. PD What personality type is opposite of an introvert? Extrovert
81. A What serves as the source of carbon for the carbon
skeleton of the carbohydrate molecules
synthesized by photosynthesis?
carbon dioxide
Round 1 NLSC 2005 Quiz Bowl Page 10
82. A The goat is Capricorn. The archer is Sagittarius.
Which sign of the zodiac does the balance depict?
Libra
83. PD Where and when is the SkillsUSA University
session for Quiz Bowl being held?
Today
3:30
Basie Ballroom, Marriott
84. A Spell the name of the natural disaster,
TSUNAMI.
T S U N A M I
85. C There are 5 permanent members of the United
Nations. Other than the United States, name 2 of
the members.
Britain
France
China
Russia
86. C A Passport will be required for the first time, by
2008, for all US citizens re-entering the US from
which two countries.
Canada and Mexico
87. C A USA Today cover story deals with women in
the military, with special emphasis on this
problem.
Women injured in
combat
88. A Arteriosclerosis affects which body system? circulatory system
89. PD What does OSHA stand for? Occupational Safety and
Health Administration
90. PD A Venn diagram is widely used in Total Quality
Management. Which geometric shape is most
commonly used to construct a Venn diagram?
Circle
91. A With what organization are these names
associated?
Earl Warren
John Marshall
Antonin Scalia
Felix Frankfurter
William Rehnquist
Supreme Court
Round 1 NLSC 2005 Quiz Bowl Page 11
92. C Name the airline that is having a big impact on
airfares to and from the Washington, DC market.
It operates out of Dulles (DULL is) Airport.
Independence Air
93. A Name the author of "Kim." Rudyard Kipling
94. C A USA Today cover story featured Billy Graham,
the world’s most famous evangelist. How old is
Graham?
86
95. A
M
The air pressure in automobile tires is 32 pounds.
In truck tires, it is 26 pounds greater than in the car
tires. What is the pressure in the truck tires?
58 pounds
96. PD What is the official membership year of
SkillsUSA?
September 1 to August
31
97. A According to the proverb, a fool and what are soon
parted?
his money
98. PD What SkillsUSA Training Program offers
important information to teachers and students at
the National Leadership and Skills Conference?
SkillsUSA University
(Skills University
requires more
information)
99. C Danica Patrick achieved the highest qualifying
position by a woman in the history of the
Indianapolis 500. In what position did she
qualify?
4th
100. PD If a member raises “A Point of Order”, what are
they are trying to correct?
an error in procedure
Posted by
edzbert ciupan traya
at
9:47 PM
No comments:
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share to Pinterest
Home
Subscribe to:
Posts (Atom)
Followers
Blog Archive
▼
2011
(1)
▼
January
(1)
magic pool??
►
2010
(3)
►
September
(3)
About Me
edzbert ciupan traya
View my complete profile
Travel template. Template images by
epicurean . Powered by
Blogger .