Dahlia Hawthorne - The Ace Attorney Wiki - Ace Attorney Investigations, Phoenix Wright, Apollo Justice and more! - Wikia
Wikia
Skip to Content
Skip to Wiki Navigation
Skip to Site Navigation
Comics
TV
Movies
Music
Books
Games
Lifestyle
#WHAT’S HOT
WildStar Online is free to play. See what's new!
Splatoon: Fan Facts
Transformers Devastation: Fantasy Face-Off
#OUT THIS MONTH
Halo 5: Guardians
Assassin’s Creed Syndicate
Uncharted: The Nathan Drake Collection
#MOST ANTICIPATED
Fallout 4
Star Wars: Battlefront
Call of Duty: Black Ops 3
MOBILE APPS
League of Legends
Five Nights at Freddy's
RuneScape
More Games
Search this wikia
Search all of Wikia
Sign In
Register
Username
Password
Forgot your password?
Stay logged in
Or
Connect
Start a wikia
Ace Attorney Wiki Navigation
On the Wiki
Wiki Activity
Random page
Videos
Photos
Community
Policy
Age reckoning
Spoiler
Policy
Licensing
Blocking policy
Talk page archive
Simplified ruleset
Users
Capefeather
Strabo412
343 GuiltySpark
Tutuboy95
AdventureWriter28
T u r o k
Thehumangoomba
Help
Things to do
Manual of style
Community Portal
Index
References
Help desk
Licensing
Featured article voting
Things to do
Franchise
Games
Manga
Film
Musicals
Universe
Characters
Phoenix Wright
Miles Edgeworth
Maya Fey
Godot
Franziska von Karma
Mia Fey
Dahlia Hawthorne
Cases
Farewell, My Turnabout
Rise from the Ashes
Turnabout Succession
Bridge to the Turnabout
Turnabout Goodbyes
Turnabout Sisters
The Kidnapped Turnabout
Places
Locations
Countries
Areas
List of Ace Attorney maps
Settlements
Misc
Gameplay
Magatama
Psyche-Lock
Jurist System
MASON System
Bracelet
Penalty
Little Thief
Music
Objection! (music)
Soundtracks
Reminiscing
Character themes
Pursuit
Great Revival
The Guitar's Serenade
Evidence
Magatama
Blue Badger
Bracelet
Atroquinine
Attorney's badge
Prosecutor's badge
The Thinker
Personnel
Shu Takumi
Voice cast
Ben Judd
Seon King
James Wilson
Janet Hsu
Tatsuro Iwamoto
Contribute
Edit this Page
Add a Video
Add a Photo
Add a Page
Wiki Activity
Watchlist
Random page
Recent changes
Dahlia Hawthorne
1,951 pages on
this wiki
Edit
Classic editor
History
Talk 0
Dahlia Hawthorne
Image Gallery
Sprite Gallery
Dahlia Hawthorne
Link to the template page
Aliases/nicknames
Melissa Foster *
Teen Angel *
Dollie *
Iris *
Miss Evil Spirit *
One-off nicknames
Girlie *
Sweetie *
Witch *
Occupation
Literature student at
Ivy University
(2011? - Apr. 11, 2014)
Names in other languages
Japanese *
美柳ちなみ ( Chinami Miyanagi ) *
無久井里子 ( Satoko Mukui ) *
ちちゃん ( Chi-chan ) *
French
Dahlia Plantule
German
Dahlia Hawthorne
Spanish
Dahlia Hawthorne
Italian
Dahlia Hawthorne
Biological information
Designated birth year(s) ?
1993-4
Age
19 * - 20 *
Status *
Deceased (January 2019)
Eye color
Brown
Hair color
Red
Height *
5'1"; 155 cm
Associates
Family
Morgan Fey
(mother and accomplice)
An unnamed father
Iris
(twin sister and accomplice)
An unnamed stepfather
Pearl Fey
(younger half-sister)
An unnamed stepmother
Valerie Hawthorne
(stepsister, accomplice, and victim; deceased)
Misty Fey
(aunt and intended victim; deceased)
An unnamed uncle
(uncle; deceased)
Mia Fey
(cousin and nemesis; deceased)
Maya Fey
(cousin and intended victim)
Ami Fey
(ancestor; deceased)
Bikini
(fellow member of Fey Clan)
Friends
Terry Fawles
(ex-boyfriend, accomplice, and victim; deceased)
Doug Swallow
(ex-boyfriend and victim; deceased)
Affiliates
Phoenix Wright
(ex-boyfriend and intended victim)
Diego Armando
(poisoning victim)
Winston Payne
(prosecutor in Wright's trial)
Miscellaneous
Debut episode
Turnabout Memories
Leitmotif
" Dahlia Hawthorne ~ Distant Image "
Dahlia Hawthorne Do. You. Think. You've. Won? Well!? Do you,
Mia Fey ? Heh... Heh... Heh... Heheh... That's. Just. Fine! —
Turnabout Memories
Dahlia Hawthorne
was a student at
Ivy University
and ex-girlfriend of
Phoenix Wright . She appeared as a witness in the murders of her stepsister
Valerie Hawthorne , her ex-boyfriend
Doug Swallow , and the author
Elise Deauxnim .
Early life Edit
Morgan Fey , who was to become the head of the
Fey clan , married a wealthy jeweler and had two twin daughters with him: Dahlia and
Iris . However,
Misty Fey , Morgan's younger sister, had more spiritual power than Morgan did, and she became the head instead, making Morgan's bloodline a powerless branch family. The jeweler divorced from his wife, taking their daughters with him. He later remarried to a woman who already had a daughter,
Valerie Hawthorne . Finding her twin sister a nuisance, Dahlia convinced her father to give Iris away to the
Hazakura Temple . As Dahlia stayed with the Hawthornes, she began to hate her father and plotted against him for his money.
When Dahlia was 14 years old, she pretended to fall in love with
Terry Fawles , her tutor, to use him to exact revenge on her father. With Valerie's cooperation, she staged a fake kidnapping by Fawles to get her hands on one of her father's rare jewels. At
Dusky Bridge
near
Hazakura Temple , however, Valerie betrayed Fawles and shot him in the arm, the signal for the "hostage" to jump into
Eagle River
intentionally with the diamond in her backpack. Fawles was convicted for Dahlia's "murder" and sentenced to death row. Dahlia would become involved in more crimes later in life.
First murder Edit
Main article:
Turnabout Beginnings
Five years later, Fawles was being transferred to another prison, but his transport broke down and he escaped. He called Valerie Hawthorne and told her to meet him at
Dusky Bridge
to explain what had happened. Valerie called Dahlia and told her that she was going to tell the truth about the incident. Fearful of what would result from the meeting, Dahlia stabbed Valerie at Dusky Bridge and then, when Fawles arrived by a stolen car, she hid the body in the trunk of the car and then met Fawles at the bridge, posing as Valerie. Fawles was arrested soon afterward, now accused of a real murder.
During Fawles's
trial , Prosecutor
Miles Edgeworth
prepared Dahlia as a witness named Melissa Foster, who would attempt to convince the court that Fawles was the killer.
Mia Fey , the attorney for the defendant, was almost able to prove that Dahlia was the killer, but Fawles refused to cooperate with Fey, poisoning himself and dying on the stand instead. Fey would later recall that Dahlia left the courtroom with a "demonic smile on her face".
Attempted murder Edit
A wolf in sheep's clothing.
The result of the trial drove Fey and her co-worker, defense attorney
Diego Armando , to investigate Dahlia. Dahlia found out and convinced Armando to meet her in the
courthouse
cafeteria six months later. Fearful that Armando would expose the truth, Dahlia quietly slipped poison into his coffee from her bottle necklace. The poison had been stolen from
Doug Swallow , her boyfriend at the time, who was a pharmacology student at
Ivy University .  Armando was put into a coma from the poisoning, and Dahlia fled the scene.
Minutes later, in the reading room, she stumbled across fellow Ivy University student
Phoenix Wright
and gave him the necklace as a "love gift" to evade the authorities. Swallow later found out about the stolen poison and broke up with her.
Due to lingering suspicion surrounding her over this incident, Dahlia planned to kill Wright to retake the only remaining evidence that could link her to the poisoning. Iris, fearful for her sister and the path she was taking, begged Dahlia not to go so far, and convinced her not to resort to murder. Instead, Iris lived Dahlia's life at Ivy University in order to protect Dahlia in the event of another encounter with law enforcement.
Second murder Edit
Main article:
Turnabout Memories
Mia Fey (She's going to be a tough witness, alright... It only took her 12 seconds to wrap them all around her little finger.) —
Turnabout Memories
Eight months went by and the bottle necklace was not returned to Dahlia. Having failed in the task for all that time, Dahlia suspected that Iris had actually fallen in love with Wright. Without telling her twin sister, Dahlia took matters into her own hands and went back to Ivy University herself in desperation. She attempted to kill Wright by stealing more of Swallow's poison and using it to poison Wright's cold medicine.
However, before her plan could come to fruition, she found Swallow trying to warn Wright about her and the stolen poison. Wright pushed Swallow in a mixture of anger and disbelief and left. Knowing that Swallow was on to her, Dahlia then permanently silenced Swallow by using power cables to fatally electrocute her former boyfriend, and attempted to frame Wright for his murder.
Unfortunately for Dahlia, Mia Fey had finally decided to return to the courtroom for the first time since Fawles' disastrous trial. The rookie defense attorney took on Wright's case and relished being able to finally expose Dahlia as the killer she was. Dahlia was then convicted and sentenced to death, but she swore that she would someday have her revenge against the woman who had defeated her.
Prison and execution Edit
Dahlia Hawthorne Yes. I was hanged. It wasn't exactly... pleasant. —
Bridge to the Turnabout
Five years later, Dahlia met with her mother in prison. Morgan told her about her plan to lure
Pearl Fey
and
Maya Fey
to
Hazakura Temple ; there, Pearl would channel Dahlia, who would kill Maya, so that Pearl would become the master of the Fey family. Soon after this exchange, Dahlia was executed by hanging.
Summoning Edit
Main article:
Bridge to the Turnabout
Godot ...Upon meeting a beautiful lady, always ask for her name and profession. That's one of my rules.
Dahlia Hawthorne Dahlia Hawthorne. And my current profession? Permanently retired. —
Bridge to the Turnabout
One month after Dahlia's execution,
Godot
and
Misty Fey
learned of
Morgan Fey 's plot and tried to stop it by having Misty (who arrived under her pen name "Elise Deauxnim") channel Dahlia instead. Godot would then restrain Dahlia and stop her from killing Maya. However, Dahlia attacked Maya at the
Inner Temple , which was some distance away from Hazakura Temple. Upon seeing Dahlia's silhouette, Godot was overtaken with a desire for revenge. He picked up Misty's sword-cane and stabbed Dahlia, which killed Misty. Before losing consciousness, Dahlia did manage to wound Godot. Iris was put on trial for Misty's murder.
After channeling and asking her sister Mia for help, Maya used her sister's advice and locked herself in the Inner Temple's icy
Training Hall
and channeled Dahlia to prevent Pearl, who was unknowing of the entire plot, from channeling Dahlia and consequentially murdering Maya. Later, in an effort to save Maya, Iris was called upon to undo the lock on the training room. Once Iris had undone the lock, an earthquake shook the region, and Dahlia took the distraction as an opportunity to switch with Iris and to lock Iris inside the training room, using five locks. Rescue efforts then continued to save Maya from the Sacred Cavern, though Maya was, in fact, outside, possessed by Dahlia.
Dahlia's spirit leaving Maya.
During Iris's trial, Dahlia, posing as Iris, claimed that Maya had killed Misty and then had killed herself in her guilt by throwing herself off
Dusky Bridge . However, Wright was soon able to figure out who she really was and who was channeling her. Dahlia really thought that Maya had thrown herself off of Dusky Bridge, as the Training Hall had just been opened and only Iris was discovered. Wright then asked who was channeling her at that moment. Dahlia didn't know, but Wright soon revealed that it was Maya.
Mia, being channeled by Pearl, taunted her cousin, mocking her for her string of disastrous murder attempts. Distraught over her failure to kill Maya when she had been so close to her for days, Dahlia left Maya's body, and the
judge
suggested that her spirit never be channeled again.
Personality Edit
Hawthorne's true colors.
Dahlia Hawthorne knew that her beauty and innocent appearance threw others off her true nature and took full advantage of it. She had the ability to make herself appear serene and innocent; she was often portrayed as having small butterflies flock about her and flutter gently. However, this aura of innocence was a facade, and when pressed into a corner, her demeanor could change to a terrifying, almost demonic visage which even caused the aforementioned butterflies to burst into flames at one point. In truth, Hawthorne looked after and cared about nobody but herself, and even went as far as to state that this had always been the case for her.
Many who have seen Hawthorne's true nature, such as Phoenix Wright and Mia Fey, have described Hawthorne as a demon, and even the
judge
has suggested that she never be channeled again. Indeed, all of Hawthorne's murders and attempted murders were committed to cover up a previous crime or to exact revenge on Mia Fey. She displayed absolutely no remorse or regret for any of the crimes she had committed, and had no qualms about murdering completely innocent people for self-preservation.
In fact, of all the people Wright has encountered, Dahlia was arguably the most dangerous in the sense that she had the most known intended victims, seven in total. Of these, two died by her hand ( Valerie Hawthorne
and
Doug Swallow ), one killed himself ( Terry Fawles ), one was killed by
someone else
( Mia Fey ), and three failed altogether (Phoenix Wright, Diego Armando, and Maya Fey). There was also one unintended victim ( Misty Fey ), although Hawthorne was hardly repentant of this. Despite all this, all of Dahlia's crimes were failures in one way or another, mostly due to the actions of Mia Fey against her.
Dahlia Hawthorne's sister Iris once gave a somewhat different description of her. Having been abandoned by her mother and neglected by her father, Iris felt sorry for Dahlia because Iris at least had
Bikini , a fellow nun and acting mother to her, to take care of her. Iris also described Dahlia as "strong" and "smart", never complaining about her situation. She was thankful that neither Dahlia or herself had much spiritual power, so that they couldn't be used by their mother. Iris thus showed some sympathy for her half-sister, Pearl Fey, whom her mother could and did use for her own ambitions.
Name Edit
Dahlia Hawthorne.
" Miyanagi " (美柳) is a name meaning "beauty" and "willow", and is meant to evoke a feeling of tranquility. " Chinami " (ちなみ) may come from the phrase " chi mo namida mo nai " ("without blood or tears"), basically meaning "heartless". It also follows Wright's naming convention, as " chinami ni " means "by the way".
Her
Japanese
pseudonym, " Satoko Mukui " (無久井里子), literally means "a vengeful foster child".
The given name "Dahlia" was inspired by the album
Dahlia
by
X Japan . The nickname "Dollie" is a reference to an unofficial fan translation project for
Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney: Trials and Tribulations , which was scrapped after an official localization was announced. In the fan translation, she was named Dolores Willow, and her nickname was Dolly. [1]
The surname "Hawthorne" is a reference to famous author
Nathaniel Hawthorne , who wrote
Rappaccini's Daughter , a short story in which a man falls in love with a woman who has a strong poison coursing through her veins and can kill anything with a simple touch.
Pearl Fey 's given name is also a Hawthorne reference. [1]
Dahlia's fake given name "Melissa" comes from the Greek word "μέλισσα" ( melissa ) meaning "honey bee", which in turn comes from "μέλι" ( meli ) meaning "honey". This could be a reference to her apparently sweet demeanour. Alternatively, it may be a play on "malicious".
Her pseudonym surname "Foster" mimics her Japanese counterpart's name.
Her
French
surname "Plantule" means "seedling".
Development Edit
Since she only appears while alive as a witness, Dahlia's non-spirit sprites are cut off and are not full length, similar to other courtroom-only characters such as
Frank Sahwit
and
Richard Wellington .
Her appearance, outfit, and the butterflies that circle around her were all designed to give the impression of an "heiress". [2]
Before the shadowy
court record
profile in
Bridge to the Turnabout
is revealed as Dahlia, her gender is left as "?". This is despite the profile itself referring to the character as "daughter", "Iris's twin sister", and "her". Her age is also listed as "???", despite being mentioned as Iris's twin and Iris's age already being known.
Within the timeline of the
first
three
games
in the
Ace Attorney
series, Dahlia Hawthorne is chronologically both the first ( Turnabout Beginnings ) and last ( Bridge to the Turnabout ) villain faced by the protagonists.
References Edit
↑
1.0
1.1
Hsu, Janet (2014-10-31).
Ace Attorney Trilogy - Surprising Tidbits You Never Knew!
Capcom Unity. Retrieved on 2014-11-02.
↑
(2009). "The Art of Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney". UDON.
ISBN 1-897376-19-7 .
Retrieved from " http://aceattorney.wikia.com/wiki/Dahlia_Hawthorne?oldid=92777 "
Categories :
Characters
1990s births
Female characters
Students
Channeled characters
Characters believed deceased
Characters sentenced to death
Characters with Psyche-Locks
Deceased characters
Imposters
Villains
Witnesses
Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney: Trials and Tribulations
Featured articles
Add category
Cancel
Save
Around Wikia's network
Random Wiki
Games
About
Help
Community Central
Careers
Advertise
API
Contact Wikia
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Global Sitemap
Content is available under
CC-BY-SA .
Video Games
Entertainment
Lifestyle