General Media Release | Listening to the Rain | 4 May 2009
Description | Compiled by Acty Tang | Minghella in the Work | More about Acty Tang

Photographer | Sophie Marcus

Rhodes University Drama Department Presents

Listening to the Rain
A tribute to Anthony Minghella

21 May - 23 May
Main Theatre
7:30pm

Compiled by Acty Tang
Acty Tang takes on overall direction, with Gary Gordon choreographing. The cast
consists of staff, graduates and undergrads at the Drama department. Highlights:
| Alex Sutherland, performing.
| Masters student Shaun Acker, winner of the Sanlam Prize for Best Actor at KKNK,
performing.
| Wayne Greenberg and Cathy Hodgson from the Music department.
| Lynette Marais of the National Arts Festival, who received an Honorary Doctorate
from Rhodes this year, will give an on-screen performance.

Listening to the Rain is a mingling of body and textual language. Minghellas broad
artistic vision is given another layer in this piece. Music, dance, text all culminate in a
vision of human fragility. The audience will recognise the tiers of emotion; they will
see themselves in the gestures of the work. The collaboration of Acty Tang, Gary
Gordon and the various members of the cast transport Minghellas ideas into a fresh
space.

1

Age recommendation | PG language
Duration | two hours | including interval
Tickets | Theatre Caf | Theatre Foyer | 09:00  16:00 weekdays
Ticket price | R25 & R20
Further Information | www.ru.ac.za/drama

Minghella in the Work
Minghella was most well known for his Oscar-winning films, but also had a long
career writing plays, radio plays, dance texts and for television. This production
celebrates his theatre, dance and earlier film work.
The production features segments from five works, so as to celebrate the diversity of
Minghella's work. The individual titles are as follows
|Truly, Madly, Deeply
| Hang Up
| Whale Music
| Mosaic
| Days Like These

A note from Acty Tang
For me, Minghella's theatre is captivating, because he shows how we evade each
other with our words; he understands that to speak exactly what we want to say is
very hard, even painful. And so we dance around it with words. Minghella captures
that jumbled chaos of our everyday language. Sometimes it is hurtful and volatile,
but sometimes it's also gentle, rather funny, light as drizzle.

More on Acty Tang
Acty Tang is a performer and choreographer, and lectures part time at Rhodes
Drama. He was the winner of the Standard Bank Young Artist Award for dance in
2007. While his work is primarily in physical theatre, his postgraduate studies at
Rhodes Drama also included directing, acting, design, and dramatic literature.

2

He has choreographed, written, designed and performed solo pieces, many of them
in non-theatre spaces, such as Inscrutable (2008) for the Rhodes China Week; Male
variations: Let me entertain you 400 times over (2007), for which he was nominated
for a Gauteng MEC Award for Best Male Performer; Protect (2007); and The Silent
Wail of Melisande (2006) on the side of Lucas Avenue.
In recent years Acty has undertaken dramaturgical work with the First Physical
Theatre Company, in productions such as Bessie's Head (2006), Ozymandias (2008),
and To Watch and be Watched (2009) in New Orleans, USA.

More About Anthony Minghella
Minghella was born on the Isle of Wight at Ryde. He attended Sandown Grammar
School and St John's College (Portsmouth). He was a graduate of the University of
Hull, where he completed undergraduate and postgraduate courses, but eventually
abandoned his doctoral thesis.
His first piece of produced work was a 1975 stage adaptation of Gabriel Josipovici's
Mobius the Stripper and it was his 1985 piece Whale Music that kick-started his
career. Minghella's 1990 feature Truly, Madly, Deeply, a drama he had written and
directed for the BBC's Screen Two anthology strand, bypassed its expected TV
broadcast and received a cinema release.
In 1996, he won the Academy Award for Directing for The English Patient. He was
nominated for the Academy Award for Adapted Screenplay for 1999's The Talented
Mr. Ripley.
He directed Cold Mountain and Breaking and Entering, and he produced Iris, The
Quiet American, Heaven, The Interpreter, Michael Clayton, some of the more
internationally known works in his repertoire.

- http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Anthony_Minghella

End release | 3 pages

3

Media contact | Kate Bold | k.bold at ru.ac.za

4

