www.CyclopsWarrior.blogspot.com: March 2010
skip to main
|
skip to sidebar
www.CyclopsWarrior.blogspot.com
www.CyclopsWarrior.blogspot.com
Social commentary. Editorials, Humor, Sarcasm and Observations. "The Only Website You Will Ever Need" trademark, copyright 2009,2010,2011,2012,2013, 2014, 2015 Email:cyclopswarrior@gmaildotcom Right Click Images For Full Size! The Best Part Of This Blog Is The Link Section - You Can Literally Spend Hours, Even Days Exploring These! Bookmark This Site Because You'll Be Back! Best Experienced In Full Screen Mode! GOOGLE CENSORS WELCOME TO O'BAMA NET, INTERNET 2.0
Tuesday, April 27, 2010
Ice Box All The Way In Saturday's Kenticky Derby #136!
ICE BOX
TO BE IN THE MONEY AT THIS YEARS DERBY! USE HIM IN EXACTA BOXES AND TO RUN FIRST AND SECOND IN THE TRI AND SUPER! Kentucky Derby 2010 | Ice Box has the ability
Colt fares well vs. top horses Ice Box isn't coming into Saturday's 136th Kentucky Derby cold-calling
on the top Triple Crown contenders. Last week's bullet workout at
Churchill Downs sold his supporters on the fact that Ice Box is red hot
for the premier showdown of 3-year-old thoroughbreds. But it was his victory by a nose in the GradeI Florida Derby at odds
of 21-1 over Pleasant Prince that earned him enough money to make a trip
to the Run for the Roses. The Gulfstream Park effort also earned him a
reputation as a strong closer. Ice Box has won 3of7 lifetime starts and
is sixth on the Derby's graded stakes earnings list with $457,500. “We were happy with his
win in the Florida Derby,” said trainer Nick Zito, who has teamed with
owner Robert LaPenta on three previous Kentucky Derby starters: The
Cliff's Edge, fifth in 2004; Andromeda's Hero, eighth in 2005; and Cool
Coal Man, 15th in 2008. The
timing of the Florida Derby puts six weeks between starts for Ice Box.
But his workout last Friday didn't throw any cold water on Zito's Derby
plans, when the colt had the fastest time for a half-mile workout, 462/5
seconds. Zito had Ice Box out again Monday for a gallop of about 11/2
miles with exercise rider Dennis Chavez. Zito said he can draw some comparisons between Ice
Box and his first Derby winner, Strike the Gold in 1991. “Just like Strike the Gold, he's a late-developing
horse,” Zito said. “He ran in Florida … ran the right races. Of course,
Strike the Gold finished second in the Florida Derby and this horse won. “I like his chances, I
really do. … It's good to have a horse this week training the way he
does.” Ice Box,
who will have Jose Lezcano riding, also has the breeding: The chestnut
colt was sired by Pulpit, fourth in the 1997 Derby, and his second dam,
Crown of Sheba, is a half-sister to 1985 Derby winner and Horse of the
Year Spend A Buck. LaPenta
became involved in thoroughbred racing in 1998, when he signed on as
one of basketball coach Rick Pitino's partners, then launched his own
stable in 2001. LaPenta, who is CEO of L-1 Identity Solutions, also was
the founder of L-3 Communications. With Monday's defection of Rule, Zito-trained Jackson
Bend joined the top 20 Derby list based on graded stakes earnings, with
$230,000. LaPenta owns the Florida-bred colt with the breeders, Fred and
Jane Brei's Jacks or Better Farm. Jackson Bend, who will be ridden by
Hall of
Fame
jockey Mike Smith, heads into Saturday's showdown off three runner-up
finishes this year in graded stakes. He was second in the GradeIII Holy
Bull, the GradeII Fountain of Youth and the GradeI Wood Memorial, the
last two behind Eskendereya. As a 2-year-old Jackson Bend reeled off
five wins in six starts. “We're
very excited to have him in there,” said Zito, who also had Jackson
Bend out for a long gallop on a misty Monday morning. “He's certainly
worthy of a start, that's for sure, being second two times to
Eskendereya in two big races. He's kind of a gem of consistency, that's
what we want. … He really didn't duck anybody to get in this field.” Paul Rolfes can be
reached at (502) 582-4221.
http://www.courier-journal.com
Posted by
For Today
at
9:36 PM
0
comments
Links to this post
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share to Pinterest
Your fastest Internet in the world is found in Berkeley, CA
By
Nate Anderson If you want the fastest average broadband speed in the world, don't
move to Japan. Instead, buckle up your Birkenstocks and pile into the VW
Bus, because it's time for a road trip to Berkeley, California, home of
the fastest average Internet speeds on earth.
This nugget of data comes courtesy of the
most recent State of
the Internet report
from Akamai Technologies, which collects and
analyzes a unique data set of worldwide speeds and IP address usage.
When all of the company's speed data was sorted by city,
three US
locations top the list before South Korea and Japan begin to dominate.
Those three spots are Berkeley (average speed: 18.7Mbps), Chapel Hill,
North Carolina (average speed: 17.5Mbps), and Stanford, California
(average speed: 17.0Mbps). The next US city on the list is Durham, North
Carolina (average speed: 13.6Mbps) in eighth place, followed by Ithaca,
New York; Ann Arbor, Michigan; College Station, Texas; Urbana,
Illinois; Cambridge,
Massachusetts; University Park, Pennsylvania; and
East Lansing, Michigan.
If you're not from the US, you might not see the pattern: each of these
cities houses a major research university. Akamai obtained these results
by filtering out all cities with less than 50,000 unique IP addresses,
to make sure that the averages weren't affected by outlying small
cities. The result was that "so-called 'college towns'
are some of the
best connected in the United States."
As someone who lived in Chapel Hill for years and spent plenty of time
in Durham, this result raised a huge and obvious question: are these
high speeds truly representative of what home users in those communities
can purchase, or are they largely a result of on-campus high-speed
access from Duke and UNC-Chapel Hill? (My guess would be the latter,
especially in Durham.)
The college town advantage
Akamai had the same question, fortunately. Their answer: "However, what
this likely represents is the extremely high speed connections these
university/college campuses have to the Internet, as opposed to
particularly high-speed consumer broadband services available to local
residents. (However, it may also be the case that the speed of local
consumer broadband offerings is potentially higher than average.)"
Regular readers may recall that last week
we
looked into the claim
by Verizon CEO Ivan Seidenberg that
US
broadband was number one in the world . Akamai's data, showing that
these top US cities beat out anything in Japan,
south Korea, and
Europe, would seem evidence for that assertion. But consider Akamai's
explanation; if universities are
actually the drivers of these high
speeds, which are not then available to community residents, they don't
say much about the state of US consumer broadband at all.
Indeed, when you filter the list to exclude US towns with a major
college in the middle of them, every US city on the list goes away. This
also applies to other countries, of course; Norway's top entry on the
list is Trondheim (average speed: 10.6Mbps), home to the
Norwegian
University of Science and Technology. The UK's top entry is Oxford.
South Korea's top city, Masan, also has a couple of colleges.
The data, then, is of limited use if we care about arguing over consumer
broadband and where it's best. But it does remind us of one thing:
around the world, if you want fast Internet, it's good to be a student.
Posted by
For Today
at
9:33 PM
0
comments
Links to this post
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share to Pinterest
Hundreds Of Billions For Weaponry-None For Jobs, Training and Education! WTF Is Wrong With This Picture?
Obama administration spending billions on new global strike weapons By Bill Van Auken 24 April 2010 The Obama administration
is spending billions of dollars to develop new weapons systems,
including powerful conventional warhead missiles capable of striking any
target in the world within less than an hour.
The US
Air Force carried out two separate test launches April 22—one at
Vandenberg Air Force Base in California, and the other at Cape
Canaveral, Florida—designed to further the development of these weapons
systems.
The first system, known as Conventional Prompt Global
Strike, or CPGS, would be capable of striking anywhere across the globe
within under an hour of a launch order, using intercontinental ballistic
missiles fired from the US to deliver conventional warheads against
targets in other countries.
Capable of striking a target with an
impact speed of up to 4,000 feet per second and a payload of up to 8,000
pounds, these warheads would be able to obliterate everything within a
3,000-foot radius.
The Obama administration has requested $240
million in appropriations by Congress to pay for developing CPGS in
2011, an increase of 45 percent over this year’s budget. The total cost
of the program is expected to mount to over $2 billion by 2015, by which
time the Pentagon hopes to have deployed the first elements of the
weapons system.
The Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency
(DARPA) carried out a test launch Thursday of a space plane known as the
Falcon, or Hypersonic Technology Vehicle (HTV-2), a suborbital vehicle
that is the prototype for the CPGS delivery system.
It was
launched from Vandenberg Air Force Base on a decommissioned ballistic
missile, from which the plane separated just outside of the atmosphere,
hurtling back to the Earth at a speed of more than 13,000 miles per
hour, more than 20 times the speed of sound. The plane was supposed to
crash into the Pacific Ocean near a US military test site on the
Kwajalein Atoll.
The other unmanned space vehicle launched
Thursday from Cape Canaveral was the X-37B. The Pentagon remained
tight-lipped about the highly classified program, refusing to say even
when the 29-foot plane—which resembles a smaller version of the space
shuttle—would return to earth, much less specify what it was carrying or
give any detailed explanation of its mission.
While it is
estimated that the cost of developing the X-37B will run into the
billions, the precise amount also remains classified, included as part
of the Pentagon’s “black” budget.
Gary Payton, the deputy
undersecretary for Air Force space programs, would say only that the
test flight was designed to further “development programs that will
provide capabilities for our warfighters in the future.”
It is
widely believed that the vehicle is being developed as part of a US
effort to militarize space, providing a weapons platform and launch pad
for smaller spy satellites. There is also speculation that it is being
developed as part of the Prompt Global Strike system.
Advocates
of Prompt Global Strike have promoted the weapons system as a means to
respond instantaneously to intelligence on the location of alleged
terrorists or supposed threats of an imminent launch of weapons of mass
destruction. They have also argued that the deployment of the new
weapons would reduce the dependence of the US military on its nuclear
arsenal.
Critics, including Russian officials, have pointed out,
however, that the launching of intercontinental ballistic missiles, even
if they were carrying conventional warheads, could easily trigger a
nuclear war.
“World states will hardly accept a situation in
which nuclear weapons disappear, but weapons that are no less
destabilizing emerge in the hands of certain members of the
international community,” Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov told
reporters earlier this month in Moscow.
In a state of the nation
address following the announcement of the proposed weapons system under
the Bush administration, then-Russian President Vladimir Putin warned,
“The launch of such a missile could provoke a full-scale counterattack
using strategic nuclear forces.”
Largely as a result of such
warnings, Congress previously failed to provide funding for the program.
The proposal “really hadn’t gone anywhere in the Bush administration,”
Defense Secretary Robert Gates said in an interview on the ABC news
program “This Week.” Gates, who was held over in his post by incoming
President Barack Obama, noted that the weapons system had been “embraced
by the new administration.”
The
New York Times
reported
Friday that in an interview Obama had defended the weapons system as a
“move towards less emphasis on nuclear weapons” and argued that it would
insure “that our conventional weapons capability is an effective
deterrent in all but the most extreme circumstances.”
In a
separate interview with the
Times , Air Force Gen. Kevin
Chilton, the head of the Strategic Command, argued that the weapons
system was needed to give the White House more military options.
“Today
we can present some conventional options to the President to strike a
target anywhere on the globe that range from 96 hours, to several hours
maybe, 4, 5, 6 hours,” Chilton told the
Times .
“That
would simply not be fast enough, he noted, if intelligence arrived about
a movement by Al Qaeda terrorists or the imminent launching of a
missile,” the newspaper said. “‘If the president wants to act on a
particular target faster than that, the only thing we have that goes
faster is a nuclear response,’ he said.”
Advocates of the program
within the military and the administration have claimed that the danger
of Russia or China interpreting the launch of a Prompt Global Strike
missile as the beginning of a nuclear attack could be alleviated by
positioning launch vehicles above ground, giving them a different flight
path and even opening launch sites up for inspection. Military analysts
point out, however, that such a system would provide an ideal
subterfuge in the event that Washington decided to launch a “preventive”
nuclear war.
Moscow’s concern over the proposed weapons system
found expression in the recently signed New Start nuclear weapons treaty
agreed by the US and Russia, which requires that the introduction of
any US intercontinental ballistic missile carrying a conventional weapon
capable of reaching Russian soil be compensated by the decommissioning
of an existing nuclear-armed missile.
Obama’s rhetoric about the
new weapons system contributing to nuclear disarmament notwithstanding,
there is ample evidence that Washington remains committed to maintaining
and upgrading its nuclear arsenal.
Speaking Thursday at the NATO
foreign ministers meeting in Estonia, Secretary of State Hillary
Clinton rejected proposals from European governments for the removal of
so-called tactical or battlefield nuclear weapons that the US has
deployed on the continent.
“We should recognize that as long as
nuclear weapons exist, NATO will remain a nuclear alliance,” Clinton
told the gathering in Tallinn. “As a nuclear alliance, sharing nuclear
risks and responsibilities widely is fundamental.”
Meanwhile, at a
recent hearing of the House Armed Services Committee, General Chilton,
the head of the US Strategic Command, assured members of Congress that
the military is proceeding with work on a “follow-on to the current
Ohio-class Trident submarine fleet,” which carries D-5 nuclear-armed
intercontinental ballistic missiles.
Sounding the same theme,
James Miller, the principal deputy undersecretary of defense for policy,
said, “The department is currently looking at the mix of long-range
strike capabilities that the military will need for the coming decade or
two,” adding that both nuclear and conventional weapons would figure in
this “mix.”
The development of these new weapons systems will
only provide Washington and the Pentagon with another instrument for
carrying out so-called “preventive wars” and acts of aggression, giving
the US president a non-nuclear capacity to kill thousands of people
virtually instantaneously with the push of a button.
Posted by
For Today
at
9:25 PM
0
comments
Links to this post
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share to Pinterest
Morpheus (mythology)
Morpheus
(pronounced
/ˈmɔr.fjuːs/ ;
Greek :
Μορφεύς ,
Morpheus ,
or
Μορφέας ,
Morpheas , "he
who shapes [dreams]") is the
Greek
god
of
dreams
and sleep. Morpheus has the ability to take any
human's form and appear in dreams, but is described as having wings on
his back when in his true form.
Family
He is the son of
Hypnos , the God of sleep. His mother is
Pasithea ,
the goddess of hallucination. Morpheus' uncle is
Thanatos ,
the god of death (Hypnos brother), his grand mother is
Nyx , the goddess
of the night, and his grandfather is
Erebus ,
the god of darkness.
Morpheus and his brothers have a close connection with
Hades
and
other Olympian gods as well.
In other myths, he was the son of
Hades .
Morpheus, along with his brothers
Phobetor
(also known as
Icelus ), and
Phantasos
have wings on their backs, which they were given by his father
Hypnos .
Morpheus used his wings to go to others to help them in their dreams. He
also used his wings to carry his father to Morpheus' dream world to
keep him safe in a cave next to the river of forgetfulness.
Phobetor
and
Phantasos
live in Morpheus' dream world.
It is unknown if Morpheus had a wife, though a suspected wife was
often portrayed as
Iris
(the personification of the rainbow).
Abode
Morpheus' dream world is protected by the Gates of Morpheus, which
had two monsters capable of becoming one's fears, a method to drive one
away. Only other
Olympians
could enter Morpheus' Dream
World. It is notable that his dream world is where his family lived -
other gods that were exiled out of Mount Olympus. Notable features of
Morpheus' dream world are the Rivers of Forgetfulness and the River of
Oblivion.
As Morpheus goes to and from the mortal world, he leaves his brother
Phantasos
in charge when he is absent from his home
Attributions
It is said that Morpheus is always watching in one's dreams as a
shadow.
Morpheus sends images of humans in dreams or visions, and is
responsible for shaping dreams, or giving shape to the beings that
inhabit dreams. Phobetor made fearsome dreams (etymologically related to
"phobia" from the Greek φόβος "fear"). Phantasos produced tricky and
unreal dreams (hence "fantasy", "phantasmagoria", etc.). Together, these
attendants of Hypnos rule the realm of dreams.
Morpheus also had special responsibility for the dreams of kings and
heroes. For these reasons, Morpheus is often referred to as "Morpheus,
the Greek god of dreams", in superiority to his brothers.
The drug
Morphine
is named after Morpheus for its ability to
make one sleepy and dreamy.
Appearances
Morpheus is spoken of in the
Metamorphoses
of
Ovid .
According to Ovid, Morpheus concentrated on the human elements of
dreams, his brothers Phobetor and Phantasos being responsible for
animals and inanimate objects, respectively. It is also believed that in the
Iliad
he
is spoken of as "Dream". He is referred to in
Edmund Spenser's
The Faerie Queene
(1590). He sleeps on an
ebony
bed in
a dimly lit cave, surrounded by
poppy
flowers. Morpheus, under the name "Dream" is the principle character in
Neil
Gaiman's
comic book
series, " Sandman ". As the embodiment and ruler of the
dreams, he uses many different names, one of which is "Morpheus". Morpheus is featured in episode 3, season 1 of
Xena Warrior
Princess , where he is the object of worship of a corrupted dream
cult. He is also in Homer's Adventures of Odysseus/Ulysses. Morpheus as a reference to Morphine is used in a song by the
American rock band "Hurt" in a song off their "Vol. I" album called
"Overdose" Morpheus is also referred to in " Comatose (In the Arms of Slumber) " from the album " Desireless "
by
Eagle Eye Cherry . Morpheus makes an appearance in the " The Last Olympian " by
Rick
Riordan
- the fifth book of his " Percy
Jackson and the Olympians " series - as the god of dreams. He puts
all of New York City to sleep. Morpheus "appears" (only his darkness) in
God Of War: Chains of Olympus Morpheus is mentioned in the song "The Safest Way Into Tomorrow" by
Trans-Siberian Orchestra. Reference is also made to his wings which he
is "offering" in the song (to the person being addressed). In the film
The Matrix
(1999),
Morpheus
(interprted by
Laurence Fishburne ) is the leader of a team of free
humans and enables
Neo
to wake up from his "sleep".
References
Ovid ,
Metamorphoses ,
Book XI,
at Google Books John Potter, "Archaeologia Graeca, or The antiquities of Greece. To
which is added, an appendix, containing a concise history of the Grecian
states", 1818, Chapter XIII - Of Divination by Dreams,
at Google Books God
of
dreams
&
sleep
Abode
Morpheus' dream world
Symbol
Poppy
Consort
Iris
(suspected)
Parents
Pasithea
and
Hypnos
or
Hades
Siblings
Phobetor
(uncle in some portrayals) and
Phantasos
Posted by
For Today
at
9:21 PM
0
comments
Links to this post
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share to Pinterest
Virginia stamps out license to hate: DMV recalls plate with coded racist message
1St
Ammendement Does Not Matter!
By
Brigid Schulte
Washington Post Staff Writer Thursday, April 22, 2010
Virginia's Department of Motor Vehicles is so accustomed to drivers
trying to sneak lewd, gross, hateful or racist messages onto
personalized license plates that it has a rigorous process to root them
out.
A manager in the Personalized Plates Work Center reads through every
application, putting any suspicious combination of letters and numbers
into a computer program that analyzes the potential plate for hidden
meaning. Questionable messages go to a 20-person Word Committee for
review and a vote. Among the few printable examples of rejected license
plates, according to Melanie Stokes, a member of the Word Committee, are
"JERKA55," "IPOOPD," and "HORNI1."
But sometimes, the system doesn't quite work.
The owner of a Ford truck bearing the license plate 14CV88 will have to
find a new message after the DMV on Wednesday canceled its earlier
approval of that series of letters and numbers.
A
photo of the truck
hit the Web a few days ago, went viral
on car and other blogs and finally came to the attention of the Council
on American-Islamic Relations, an advocacy group for American Muslims.
On Wednesday morning, the group complained to the DMV that the plate
contained a white supremacist and neo-Nazi statement.
A few hours later, the DMV agreed that the plate contains a coded
message: The number 88 stands for the eighth letter of the alphabet, H,
doubled to signify "Heil Hitler," said CAIR's Ibrahim Hooper. "CV"
stands for "Confederate veteran" -- the plate was a special model
embossed with a Confederate flag, which Virginia makes available for a
$10 fee to card-carrying members of the Sons of Confederate Veterans.
And 14 is code for imprisoned white supremacist David Lane's 14-word
motto: "We must secure the existence of our people and a future for
white children."
The giveaway that something was amiss, Hooper said, was the truck
itself. An enormous photo of the burning World Trade Center towers
covers the entire tailgate, with the words: "Everything I ever needed to
know about Islam I learned on 9/11."
Hooper at first thought the picture was a Photoshopped hoax. But when he
called the DMV and discovered the plate was registered in 2005 to a
Ford F-150 pickup truck, Hooper started to worry.
"If the license plate had been on a VW Beetle with nothing else on it,
or a Volvo station wagon, no one would probably have noticed," said
Hooper. "But when the Confederate flag is thrown in . . . it shows the
convergence of anti-government and anti-Islamic sentiments that
unfortunately seem to be growing."
The DMV would not release the identity or location of the vehicle owner,
citing privacy laws. Virginia has the highest percentage of
personalized plates in the nation.
"Even with our rigorous process, we miss a few," Stokes said. "And we
missed this one."
No word on whether the truck, shown in the photo in a parking spot
reserved for the handicapped, has the requisite disability tags.
Posted by
For Today
at
9:15 PM
0
comments
Links to this post
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share to Pinterest
Thanks For Being There! April 5 - April 27, More Than 10,000 Hits To This Blog! THANKS!
THANKS TO ALL THE COOL PEOPLE WHO HAVE CHECKED OUT THIS BLOG! I WILL HAVE A HUGE ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE END OF JUNE THAT WILL PUT YOU IN SHOCK! STAY TUNED!
Posted by
For Today
at
9:05 PM
0
comments
Links to this post
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share to Pinterest
There Will Always Be A Place For Newspapers Even In the Age Of The Internet, Though Circulation Continues Its' Steep Decline!
Like Newspaper Revenue, the Decline in
Circ Shows Signs of Slowing
By
Mark Fitzgerald
Published: April 26, 2010
CHICAGO
Fittingly, the spring Audit Bureau of
Circulations (ABC) Fas-Fax report was released in the middle of
earnings season. And so the many newspapers reporting that ad revenue
was still falling,
but at a slower pace, were mostly also posting circ
numbers that continue to slide but not accelerate.
There were plenty of ugly numbers in Monday's Fas-Fax,
especially among the metros that seem never to run out of "junk"
circulation to wring out. But there were signs that circ could be on its
way to stabilizing.
Overall average paid daily circulation fell 8.7%
year-over-year for the six months through March, ABC said. That's an
improvement on last fall's numbers, which were down 10.6%
year-over-year. Sunday was down 6.54% in this report compared to a 7.5%
drop in 2009.
But at the top of the circulation charts, the big just
keep getting smaller -- often much smaller.
Of the top 25 dailies, only The Wall Street Journal
managed to record a year-over-year gain, and at that, the 0.5% rise
would in past years be described as flat.
Journal circulation is boosted by an unusually large
e-edition circulation, which was reported Monday as 414,025, nearly four
times more than the next big e-edition user, The Detroit Free Press
which encouraged subscribers to switch to them when the paper cut home
delivery to three days.
USA Today was down 13.58% in the period as the collapse
in business travel that sustained its strong growth for two decades
continues to take its toll on hotel sales.
Of the 21 big metros whose circ could be directly
compared to the year-ago period, fully 10 fell by double-digit
percentages.
Two dailies fell by more than 20%, The Dallas Morning
News (down 21.47%) and the San Francisco Chronicle (down 22.68%).
There was a new kid in the top 10 as the San Jose
Mercury News posted a weekday circulation of 516,701 by
incorporating
the Oakland Tribune and Contra Costa Times as editions of the Mercury
News.
Despite the signs of a moderating circulation
picture, industry figures continued their campaign deemphasizing the
sales of newspaper copies.
"Although audited circulation data at a local level
remains important to certain types of advertisers -- particularly insert
advertisers -- bottom-line paid circulation data in an aggregated
industry level does not tell the whole story about the vitality of the
newspaper industry," Newspaper Association of America CEO John Sturm
said in a statement.
ABC itself is introducing new reporting rules that will
report paid circulation as just one part of data on the total audience
for a print daily, new digital newspaper products such as mobile and
tablets, and related publications such as commuter dailies.
And newspapers -- including some that reported big
declines in print paid circ -- showed significant growth when print and
online audiences are combined.
The Chicago Tribune, for instance, fell below 500,000
circulation in this Fas-Fax, as its paid sales dropped 9.79%. But it was
among the top 25 gainers when print and online are combined. The Trib
increased 9.73% to 3,599,458.
The Star Tribune, down 7.71% in the Fas-Fax, was up
6.02% in the combined print and online audience.
The complete chart of the combined audience is posted
on E&P's business-oriented
Fitz
& Jen blog.
Top 25 List by Daily Circulation
Newspaper
Circ as of 3/31/10/
% Change
1. The Wall Street Journal 2,092,523
+0.5% 2. USA Today
1,826,622
-13.58%
3.
The New York Times
951,063
-8.47% 4. Los Angeles
Times
616,606
-14.74%
5. Washington Post
578,482
-13.06%
6. Daily News (New York)
535,059
-11.25%
7. New York Post
525,004
-5.94%
8. San Jose Mercury News*
516,701
N/A
(1/1/10 To 3/31/2010)
9. Chicago Tribune
452,145
-9.79%
10. Houston Chronicle
366,578
-13.77%
11. The Philadelphia Inquirer**
356,189
N/A
1 2. The Arizona Republic
351,207
-9.88%
13. Newsday
334,809
-9.07%
14.
The Denver Post***
333,675
N/A
15. Star Tribune,
Minneapolis
295,438
-7.71%
16. St. Petersburg
(Fla.) Times
278,888
-1.49%
17. Chicago
Sun-Times
268,803
-13.88%
18. The Plain
Dealer, Cleveland
267,888
-8.14%
19. The
Oregonian
263,600
-1.83%
20. The Seattle
Times***
263.468
N/A
21. The Dallas Morning News
260,659
-21.47%
22. Detroit Free Press
252,017
-13.31%
23. San Diego Union-Tribune
249,630
-4.45%
24. San Francisco Chronicle
241,330
-22.68%
25. The Star-Ledger, Newark, N.J.
236,017
-17.79%
* The Mercury News since 1/1/10 has made Oakland
Tribune and Contra Costa Times editions of the daily. **Philadelphia
Daily News circ is now included as an edition of the Inquirer. ***In Seattle and Denver, joint operating agreement
partners ceased publishing a print newspaper.
---- This list has been corrected. In
compilng this list, ABC reversed the circulation results of the San
Francisco Chronicle and San Diego Union-Tribune.
Mark Fitzgerald
( mfitzgerald@editorandpublisher.com )
is editor of E&P.
Posted by
For Today
at
8:56 PM
0
comments
Links to this post
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share to Pinterest
Sunday, April 25, 2010
Priest's oral sex from choirboy sold on streets as mobile video download
Pope Benedict has admitted
his church is “wounded” after recent paedophile admissions
/ AFP
Source:
AFP
Video shown on national TV
Now available as mobile download
Priest denies being paedophile
A
VIDEO of a priest receiving oral sex in a church from a former choirboy
was being sold in the streets of Brazil.
In another stinging twist to the paedophile scandal enveloping the
Catholic Church, the hidden-camera images were being sold illicitly,
with a Bluetooth video file downloaded to the purchaser’s mobile
telephone upon payment of $3 to $6.
The
Folha de Sao Paulo
newspaper reported the video was that
of Monsignor Luiz Marques Barbosa, 84, engaged in oral sex in front of a
church altar with a 19-year-old former choirboy.
The choirboy says on the tape he was abused by Father Barbosa for
many years, since he was a minor.
Its screening on a Brazilian television station last month sparked a
parliamentary inquiry into priestly paedophilia, and deepened the
scandal that has come to light in Europe and the Americas, badly
tarnishing the reign of Pope Benedict XVI.
According to reports quoting Father Barbosa’s lawyer, the priest had
been blackmailed over the video and paid $US23,000 ($25,000) last year
to prevent it being made public.
He later refused to make further payments.
Father Barbosa, who ran the parish in the north-eastern town of
Arapiraca, was arrested this week and is currently under house
detention, with his passport confiscated, pending the outcome of the
investigation.
Two other local priests also implicated in alleged paedophilia by
three former choirboys speaking in the video have been ordered to not
leave town.
Father Barbosa denies being a paedophile. ALSO; http://www.nrc.nl/international/article2530647.ece/Catholic_nuns_also_abused_children
Catholic nuns also abused children
Published:
23 April 2010 10:14
| Changed:
24 April 2010 09:52
So far, reports of abuse within the Church have focused almost
exclusively on
male clerics. But many young children also suffered at the hands of
Catholic
nuns. By Joep Dohmen In the late 1950s, the Roman Catholic Hospital of Our Dear Lady Mother of in Eindhoven was hell for Petra Jorissen. The reason had a name: sister Johanetty. "We will break that little will of yours, break it," she would squeal, as she forced the remains of a meal Jorissen had just thrown up back down her throat. Jorissen, now a 59-year-old journalist, recalled how the sister would also come to her room at night. "When I heard the squeaking of her lacquered men's shoes I immediately knew it was her," Jorissen said. "Only after she had come to my bed would she turn on her flashlight. By then, she had always carefully closed the curtains surrounding it." The sister would then fondle her genitals. The nun did not ruin her life, Jorissen said, although she still sees her "devilish face" flash in front of her eyes at least once a day. She is not looking for financial compensation, she said. "But I do hope that there will be an inquiry into the pedagogical practices of female clerics in the 1950s and 60s." So far, most media reports of abuse within the Catholic Church have focussed exclusively on male perpetrators. But there has also been abuse by female clerics, particularly in children's homes. Sadistically motivated abuse Since NRC Handelsblad and RNW started publishing testimonies from victims of abuse within the Catholic Church, 29 women have come forward. Ten women reported being abused by male priests, while 19 women said they were the victim of clerics of their own sex. Of all the reports of maltreatment by nuns, some 40 percent concern child abuse. All the women told how physical love and tenderness were absent from the children's homes and institutes maintained by sisterly orders. Most homes knew a harsh and repressive climate, which lead to humiliation and wanton violence, sometimes sadistically motivated. The hospital where Petra Jorissen stayed in the 1950s was run by the Sisters of Love. Jorissen was not the only one to point to this order. The Sisters ran dozens of hospitals, orphanages and hospices in the Catholic parts of the Netherlands. Merapi Obermayer lived in the Maria Boarding School in Amersfoort. She still remembers the names of the five nuns who tormented her. Feliciana was the worst, she recalled. One time, the nun kicked her down a flight of marble stairs without warning. She called her names, such as "bastard" or "God's mistake". The boarding school is closed now, and the nuns are dead, including sister Hendrina, who did try to be nice, said Obermayer. Screaming, beating, forcefully grabbing children by the arm or making them stand in the corner for even the most minor offences were all common practice in the 1950s and 1960s. Pedagogical principles of the era allowed for physical punishment, in school as well as at home. The majority of the reports of abuse by nuns, however, concern sexual abuse and violence that exceed even the more lenient norms of the time. A 16-year-old nurse in training, at the Heerlen Midwives' School, was forced to have sex with a nun repeatedly over a period of eight months. When the school got wind of what was going on, the girl was expelled. "Bye bye education, bye bye future," the victim, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, recalled. The nun was allowed to stay. 'Gestapo nuns' In the 1940s, the Kollenberg orphanage in Sittard was run by German Carmelites. "Gestapo nuns," is what Ben Jaspers called them, as he described their reign of terror. "Bedwetting was punished by pinching and twisting ears or sometimes pulling children along by their ears. We were constantly humiliated. Bedwetters were forced to stand absolutely still, wearing nothing but their dirty underwear over their head." Jaspers said he was afraid to sleep at night, fearing he might wet his bed again. At a sanatorium run by Franciscans in Bunde, naughty children were put in a tub filled with ice cold water, a punishment applied in other places as well. Josefine Klaassen returned to Bunde recently. "I remember standing there," she recalled, "looking up at that church tower. I felt fear, sadness and helplessness come over me. As if it hadn't been 50 years since, but only 50 days." Excessive violence was common in many children's homes, and child protective services did nothing to stop it. Ben Jaspers described how two screaming German nuns forced a five-year-old to eat cold porridge. They would hold him down and bang on the back of his head. One nun would force open his mouth and pinch his nose. The porridge would go in, and the child would vomit. The nuns would force him to eat his own sick. The scene would repeat itself, accompanied by more tears. The violence did not have to be excessive to remain etched in a victim's childhood memory. Late in the 1950s, father Paduinus walked the halls of Huize Bethlehem children's home wearing comfy slippers. He was a god to the nuns. He smoked cigars, and girls who were busy scrubbing the floor on their knees had to catch any ash he spilled. Girls that didn’t were punished by the mother superior. "As a 14-year-old child, that hurt me," one girl who refused to catch the priest's ash recalled. "I think about it often: abuse of power. That is what it was."
Posted by
For Today
at
12:06 AM
0
comments
Links to this post
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share to Pinterest
Saturday, April 24, 2010
CENSORED This Is Crazy! ICBM's With Conventional Warheads! How Do Other Countries Know They Are Not NUKES! From Voice Of America, Min. Of Propaganda!
US May Deploy New Intercontinental Weapons System.
Photo: AP
Defense Secretary Robert Gates speaks
before the Business Executives for National Security at the Reagan
Building in Washington, 20 Apr 2010 "We're also developing this Conventional Prompt Global Strike, that
allows us to use long-range missiles with conventional warheads," says
Defense Secretary Robert Gates The Obama administration is considering deploying a new group of intercontinental ballistic weapons that could deliver large conventional warheads and reduce America's dependence on its nuclear arsenal. Called Prompt Global Strike, the new class of weapons would allow the United States to attack with conventional weapons targets across the globe. According to a report Friday in The New York Times newspaper, the new weapons could carry out tasks like killing terrorist Osama bin Laden in a cave, destroying a North Korean missile as it is being transported to the launch pad, or demolishing an Iranian nuclear site - all without using nuclear bombs. Former U.S. President George W. Bush and his staff first proposed the technology, and Defense Secretary Robert Gates said in a recent interview with ABC News the idea is moving forward under the Obama administration. "We're also developing this Conventional Prompt Global Strike - which really had not gone anywhere in the Bush administration, but has been embraced by the new administration - that allows us to use long-range missiles with conventional warheads," he said. "So we have, we have more tools, if you will, in the deterrence kit bag than we used to." The report says the Prompt Global Strike warhead would be launched on a long-range missile traveling several times the speed of sound that could destroy targets halfway around the world in less than an hour. After reaching a certain altitude, the missile would release a glider that could be guided by satellites to hit a target with pinpoint precision. Earlier this month the United States announced its Nuclear Posture Review, which limits the circumstances under which the country would use nuclear weapons, with a long-term goal of achieving a nuclear-free world. Although the new policy is designed to reduce the role of nuclear weapons in America's security strategy, officials say it will not adversely affect the nation's ability to protect itself and its allies. "We intend to maintain a robust nuclear deterrent. Let no one be
mistaken, the United States will defend ourselves and defend our
partners and allies," said Hillary Clinton, U.S. Secretary of State. "We
intend to sustain that nuclear deterrent by modernizing the existing
stockpile. In fact, we have $5 billion in this year's budget going into
that very purpose."
According to the
Times
report, concerns about the Prompt
Global Strike technology led Russia to successfully demand that the
United States decommission one nuclear missile for each new conventional
weapon activated by the Pentagon.
That provision is included in the new nuclear arms reduction treaty
signed by the United States and Russia earlier this month in Prague.
Daryl Kimball, executive director of the Arms Control Association, a
private research group, says Russia's fear of a small number of
conventionally armed missiles is exaggerated.
"Russia's concerns about the conversion of long-range nuclear armed
ballistic missiles to conventional payloads, to carrying conventional
payloads, is overblown, but nevertheless this is a challenge that the
U.S. and Russia are going to have to manage in the years ahead," said
Kimball.
Russia and other nations would reportedly be allowed to inspect the
Prompt Global Strike silos to see first-hand that the weapons are
nonnuclear.
The new weapons would be deployed far from the strategic nuclear
force so other countries seeing a missile launch on their radar screens
would not mistake it for an atomic attack.
The Pentagon reportedly hopes to deploy an early version of the
system by 2015. AP US Secretary of State
Hillary Rodham Clinton speaks after a meeting of NATO foreign ministers
and their partners in Tallinn, Estonia, 23 Apr 2010
Posted by
For Today
at
11:53 PM
0
comments
Links to this post
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share to Pinterest
Friday, April 23, 2010
Hebrews To Hold "Nuke Iran" Rally in NYC Sunday-CALL IT "ANTI OBAMA RALLY"!
Massive Anti-Obama Rally Set for Sunday in New
York - FUCK ANTI AMERICAN HEBREWS, IF ISRAEL WANTS TO NUKE IRAN LET THEM DO IT BY THEMSELVES! ISRAEL HAS IN EXCESS OF 200 NUKES -LAUNCH READY! JUST BE PREPARED TO BE WIPED OFF THE MAP BY RUSSIA AND CHINA.
by Hana Levi Julian Thousands of Americans are preparing to protest in New York this Sunday
against the Obama administration's increasing hostility towards Israel.
The event is scheduled to take place outside the Israel Consulate on
Sunday, April 25 at 1:00 p.m. EDT. A partial list of organizations who
endorsed the demonstration is below. Beth Gilinsky, head of the Jewish Action Alliance that is sponsoring
the event, said, "We are outraged that President [Barack] Obama is
scapegoating Israel and wants to expel Jews from their homes in
Jerusalem. President Obama and Secretary Hillary Clinton show more anger
about a Jewish family building a home in Jerusalem than Iran building a
nuclear bomb," she added.
Gilinsky was referring to the brouhaha
that ensued following a mis-timed announcement that the fourth stage of
a seven-year plan for a housing project in the Ramat Shlomo
neighborhood of Jerusalem had been approved by Israel's Interior
Ministry.
The announcement, made during a visit to the region by
Vice President Joe Biden, led to weeks of recriminations and
condemnations by U.S. officials, beginning with an immediate, harsh
condemnation from Biden himself. Less than 24 hours after he left the
country, Secretary of State Hillary Clinton called Prime Minister
Binyamin Netanyahu to scold him for having embarrassed the vice
president and the Obama administration, and delivered a list of
concessions and demands Israel was expected to fulfill in response.
Other Obama officials followed with statements of criticism of their
own. Not one U.S. official at the time made mention of the formal
government ceremony held by the Palestinian Authority during Biden's
visit -- the naming of a public square in Ramallah to honor Dalah
Mughrabi, the terrorist who led an attack that came to be known as
the Coastal Road Massacre. In 1978, Mughrabi and her band of terrorists
hijacked a tour bus on the coastal highway, murdering 37 innocent
civilians and wounding 71 others, including more than a dozen children. On
the night that PA officials gathered to honor Mughrabi, Biden was
delivering a speech at Tel Aviv University in which he repeated his
condemnation of Israel for proceeding with the three-year-old housing
project in a part of the nation's capital restored to Jerusalem during
the 1967 Six-Day War, and thus not recognized by the U.S. government.
American officials followed up a day later, when Biden had left the
country, with more harsh criticism of Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu
and his government. “Vast segments of the Jewish community will
not tolerate the president's continuing attacks on Israel. Grassroots
Jewry will not be silent,” Gilinsky vowed. A long list of Jewish
organizations as well as a number of Christian and other non-Jewish
groups have signed on to the event as well. The demonstration will
also feature a taped statement by former New York City mayor Ed Koch, a
strong supporter of Obama's presidential campaign. Koch recently
expressed his shock and disappointment with the increasing anti-Israel
views expressed by the president and the increasing hostility of his
administration towards the Jewish State. Among the organizations
who have officially endorsed the upcoming rally are: AISH Center Americans
for a Safe Israel Artists 4 Israel Children of Jewish
Holocaust Survivors Christians and Jews United for Israel Coalition
for Israel Crown Heights Women for the Security and Integrity of
Israel Dr. Joseph Frager, Jerusalem Reclamation Project NY
Assemblyman Dov Hikind IsraelAlive Israel Day Concert in the
Park Jewish Political Education Foundation Dr. Michael
Ledeen, Center for Defense of Democracies Unity Coalition for
Israel Dr. Herbert London, The Hudson Institute AMCHA,
Coalition for Jewish Concerns Stand With Us Endowment for
Middle East Truth World Committee for the Land of Israel Zionist
Organization of America Z Street Former New York Mayor Ed Koch addresses participants in a
pro-Israel
rally
in this taped statement. The tape will be played
Sunday outside the Israel Consulate in New York City, where thousands of
Americans are preparing to protest against the Obama administration's
increasing hostility towards Israel.
Posted by
For Today
at
11:48 PM
0
comments
Links to this post
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share to Pinterest
BIG PHARMA DRUG WHORES WANT TO MEDICATE YOUR INFANT OR TODDLER WITH ANTIPSYCHOTICS! PEDIATRICIANS SIGN ON AND GET HUGE KICKBACK! KIDS = LAB RATS!
Psychiatric Drugging of Infants and Toddlers in
the US
Evelyn Pringle NaturalNews Friday, April 23rd, 2010 The United States has become the psychiatric drugging capital of the
world for kids with children being medicated at a younger and younger
age. Medicaid records in some states show infants less than a year old
on drugs for mental disorders.
The use of powerful antipsychotics with privately insured children,
aged 2 through 5 in the US, doubled between 1999 and 2007, according to a
study of data on more than one million children with private health
insurance in the January, 2010, “Journal of the American Academy of
Child & Adolescent Psychiatry.”
The number of children in this age group diagnosed with bipolar
disorder also doubled over the last decade, Reuters reported.
Of antipsychotic-treated children in the 2007 study sample, the most
common diagnoses were pervasive developmental disorder or mental
retardation (28.2%), ADHD (23.7%), and disruptive behavior disorder
(12.9%).
The study reported that fewer than half of drug treated children
received a mental health assessment (40.8%), a psychotherapy visit
(41.4%), or a visit with a psychiatrist (42.6%) during the year of
antipsychotic use.
“Antipsychotics, which are being widely and irresponsibly prescribed
for American children–mostly as chemical restraints–are shown to be
causing irreparable harm,” warned Vera Hassner Sharav, president of the
Alliance for Human Research Protection, in a February 26, 2010 InfoMail.
“These drugs have measurable severe hazardous effects on vital
biological systems, including: cardiovascular adverse effects that
result in shortening lives; metabolic adverse effects that induce
diabetes and the metabolic syndrome,” she wrote. “Long-term use of
antipsychotics has been shown to result in metabolic syndrome in 40% to
50% of patients.”
The lead researcher on the study above, Columbia University
psychiatry professor Mark Olfson, told Reuters that about 1.5% of all
privately insured children between the ages of 2 and 5, or one in 70,
received some type of psychiatric drug in 2007, be it an antipsychotic, a
mood stabilizer, a stimulant or an antidepressant. Psychiatric drugs bathe the brains of growing children with agents
that threaten the normal development of the brain, according to Dr Peter
Breggin, founder of the International Center for the Study of
Psychiatry and Psychology (ICSPP), and author of about 20 books,
including “Medication Madness.”
The drugs themselves are causing severe disorders in millions of
children in the US, he warns. “Substances like antidepressants,
stimulants, mood stabilizers, and antipsychotic drugs cause severe, and
potentially permanent, biochemical imbalances.” An American Phenomenon A number of presentations at the annual meeting of the American
Psychiatric Association in May 2009, addressed the diagnosis of bipolar
disorder, including one titled, “Pediatric Bipolar Disorder: A Critical
Look at an American Phenomenon,” at which Dr Peter Parry, a consultant
child & adolescent psychiatrist, and senior lecturer at Flinders
University in Australia, presented a survey on, “Australian and New
Zealand’s Child and Adolescent Psychiatrists’ Views on Bipolar Disorder
Prevalence and on Rates of Pediatric Bipolar Disorder in the USA.”
Dr Parry and his colleagues conducted a survey of child and
adolescent psychiatrists in Australia and New Zealand. Of the 199
psychiatrists who responded to the survey, 90.5% thought pediatric
bipolar disorder was overdiagnosed in the US.
In an October 1, 2009 article titled, “Medicating Our Children,” Dr
Parry reports that since “the mid-1990s in the USA, some researchers
have claimed that Paediatric Bipolar Disorder (PBD) frequently starts
prior to puberty.”
One of PBD’s main proponents, Harvard University’s Professor Joseph
Biederman, stating onset “is squarely in the preschooler age group,” he
notes.
Parry explains that “PBD has been created by moving the diagnostic
goalposts away from traditional concepts of bipolar disorder.”
“In children,” he says, “episodes were redefined to last hours
instead of days or weeks and, instead of manic elation, severe anger in
children sufficed as mania.”
“Unlike diagnoses like ADHD or depression, or simply accepting a
child has serious emotional and behavioural problems in reaction to
various stressors, PBD implies a lifelong severe mental illness
requiring of strong psychiatric medication,” Parry warns.
“In the USA,” he says, “the public is furthermore exposed to direct
pharmaceutical advertising that can feed the natural desire parents of
distressed and aggressive children have for a quick solution by
suggesting a simple medication fix.”
“The medicating of America’s children has become intensely
controversial, highlighted by the tragic case of Rebecca Riley, a
four-year-old Boston girl diagnosed at 28 months old with ADHD and PBD,”
he points out.
On April 7, 2009, the author of the book, “Shyness: How Normal
Behavior Became a Sickness,” Christopher Lane, featured an interview on
his Psychology Today blog, “Side Effects,” with journalist, Philip
Dawdy, the creator of the popular website, Furious Seasons, and
discussed the rising number of children being diagnosed with bipolar
disorder.
“As for bipolar disorder in kids (meaning pre-teens and younger),
it’s simply not an issue in the rest of the world,” Dawdy told Lane.
“The bipolar child is a purely American phenomenon.”
“The pharma companies and the Harvard crew worked hand-in-hand to
bring America a generation of ADHD kids and bipolar children, and their
profound influence can be seen in the millions of children and teens who
now carry lifetime diagnoses and take gobs of psychotropic drugs each
day, often to their detriment,” he advised.
Lane asked for Dawdy’s opinion on a recent report in the St
Petersburg Times that found 23 infants less than one-year-old had been
prescribed antipsychotics in Florida in 2007, as well as the drug
overdose death of 4-year-old Rebecca Riley in Massachusetts. “How is it
possible for psychiatrists to continue prescribing to infants in such
numbers without more oversight?” Lane asked.
“What’s gone on with antipsychotics prescribed to infants and
toddlers is simply inexplicable to me,” Dawdy said. “The drugs are known
to cause huge problems in adults, so why the heck would a doctor give
them to little kids, especially infants? It boggles my small mind.”
“I’m no fan of bans or restrictions,” he told Lane, “but this does
strike me as a situation where there needs to be a serious rethinking of
what we are doing — and maybe there should be a ban on the use of these
drugs in kids under, say, 6 years of age.”
An October 2007 report by the University of South Florida found the
most common diagnosis for antipsychotic use with children in Florida’s
Medicaid program, between July and December 2005, was ADHD. Roughly 54%,
or 1,372 cases, involved prescriptions for children five and under and
the total number of antipsychotic users in this young age group was
2,549, with all disorders combined, according to the report. Increased Prescribing to Poor Children Federally funded research published online in December, 2009, revealed
that children covered by Medicaid were prescribed antipsychotics at a
rate four time higher than children with private insurance. The data
showed that more than 4% of children in Medicaid fee-for-service
programs received antipsychotics, compared to less than 1% of privately
insured youth. The study found Medicaid kids were more likely to receive
antipsychotics for unapproved uses such as ADHD and conduct disorders
than privately insured children.
The researchers examined records for children in seven states for the
years 2001 and 2004, chosen as representative of the US Medicaid
population. But more recent data through 2007 indicates that the
disparity has remained, said Stephen Crystal, a Rutgers professor who
led the study, according to the December 11, 2009, New York Times.
Antipsychotics were the top selling class of drugs in both 2008 and
2009. With sales of $14.6 billion in 2009, they brought in more than the
$13.6 billion earned by both heart burn and cholesterol medications.
Antidepressants ranked fourth with sales of $9.9 billion, according to
data by IMS Health. In 2008, the drug makers took in $11.3 billion from
antiseizure drugs and $4.8 billion from ADHD drugs.
In a new book titled, “Anatomy of an Epidemic: Magic Bullets,
Psychiatric Drugs, and the Astonishing Rise of Mental Illness in
America,” Robert Whitaker reports that the number of children on
government disability rolls due to severe mental illness has increased
more than 35-fold since 1987.
The book explores the question of whether the epidemic rise in people
disabled by mental illness, among all age groups in the US over the
past 20 years, could have been fueled by a drug-based paradigm of care.
It also explores what is happening to children over the long-term who
are placed on psychiatric drugs. “Once again, science tells a very
clear story, and, as you might imagine, it is one that — when you think
of the millions of children so affected — makes you want to weep,”
Whitaker stated in a March 26, 2010, notice for the book’s release on
the Beyond Meds Website.
Of all the harmful actions of modern psychiatry, “the mass diagnosing
and drugging of children is the most appalling with the most serious
consequences for the future of individual lives and for society,” warns
the world-renowned expert, Dr Peter Breggin, often referred to as the
“Conscience of Psychiatry.”
“We’re bringing up a generation in this country in which you either
sit down, shut up and do what you’re told, or you get diagnosed and
drugged,” he points out.
Breggin considers the situation to be “a national tragedy.” “To
inflict these drugs on the growing brains of infants and children is
wrong and abusive,” he contends.
The kids who get drugged are often our best, brightest, most exciting
and energetic children, he points out. “In the long run, we are giving
children a very bad lesson that drugs are the answer to emotional
problems.”
Dr Nathaniel Lehrman, author of the book, “Coming Off Psychiatric
Drugs,” believes that giving infants and toddlers “powerful,
brain-effecting psychiatric medication is close to criminal activity.”
“Giving them these drugs,” he says, “has no rationale, and ignores
the basic fact that youngsters are very sensitive to their environments,
both social and chemical, with the juvenile brain easily damaged by the
latter.” Inventing Disorders During an interview on ABC Radio National in August 2007, Dr David
Healy, the noted British pharmacology expert, and author of the book,
“Mania: A Short History of Bipolar Disorder,” told reporter Jane
Shields: “Just to give you a feel for how crazy things have actually got
recently, it would appear that clinicians in the US are happy to look
at the ultrasounds of children in the womb, and based on the fact that
they appear to be more overactive at times, and then possibly less
active later, they’re prepared to actually consider the possibility that
these children could be bipolar.”
On April 9, 2009, Christopher Lane, author of the book, “Shyness: How
Normal Behavior Became a Sickness,” published an interview on his
Psychology Today blog with Dr Healy. In the interview, Healy explained
the history behind the drastic rise in the sale of anticonvulsants and
antipsychotics as “mood stabilizers,” and the diagnosis of bipolar
disorder.
“The key event in the mid-1990s that led to the change in perspective
was the marketing of Depakote by Abbott as a mood stabilizer,” Healy
tells Lane, and further explains:
“Mood stabilization didn’t exist before the mid-1990s. It can’t be
found in any of the earlier reference books and journals. Since then,
however, we now have sections for mood stabilizers in all the books on
psychotropic drugs, and over a hundred articles per year featuring mood
stabilization in their titles.
“In the same way, Abbott and other companies such as Lilly marketing
Zyprexa for bipolar disorder have re-engineered manic-depressive
illness. While the term bipolar disorder was there since 1980,
manic-depression was the term that was still more commonly used until
the mid-1990s when it vanishes and is replaced by bipolar disorder.
Nowadays, over 500 articles per year feature bipolar disorder in their
titles.”
“As of 2008, upwards of a million children in the United States — in
many cases preschoolers — are on “mood-stabilizers” for bipolar
disorder, even though the condition remains unrecognized in the rest of
the world,” Healy points out.
“But there is no evidence that the drugs stabilize moods,” he says.
“In fact, it is not even clear that it makes sense to talk about a mood
center in the brain.”
“A further piece of mythology aimed at keeping people on the drugs,”
he reports, “is that these are supposedly neuroprotective — but there’s
no evidence that this is the case and in fact these drugs can lead to
brain damage.”
Healy says the FDA’s decision to add a black-box warning about
suicide to SSRIs likely had little to do with the switch to prescribing
antipsychotics as safer for children. What “was quite striking was how
quickly companies were able to use the views of the few bipolar-ologists
who argued that when children become suicidal on antidepressants it’s
not the fault of the drug,” he points out.
“The problem, they said, stems from a mistaken diagnosis and if we
could just get the diagnosis right and put the child on mood stabilizers
then there wouldn’t be a problem,” he explains.
“There is no evidence for this viewpoint, but it was interesting to
see how company support could put wind in the sails of such a
perspective,” he says.
Because having just one label was very limiting, Healy says, child
psychiatry “needed another disorder — and for this reason bipolar
disorder was welcome.”
He reports that the same thing is happening to children labeled with
ADHD. “Not all children find stimulants suitable,” he advises, “and just
as with the SSRIs and bipolar disorder it has become very convenient to
say that the stimulants weren’t causing the problem the child was
experiencing; the child in fact had a different disorder and if we could
just get the diagnosis correct, then everything else would fall into
place.”
A report titled, “Adverse Events Associated with Drug Treatment of
ADHD: Review of Postmarketing Safety Data,” presented at the FDA’s March
22, 2006, Pediatric Advisory Committee meeting bears witness to Healy’s
explanation by stating in part: “The most important finding of this
review is that signs and symptoms of psychosis or mania, particularly
hallucinations, can occur in some patients with no identifiable risk
factors, at usual doses of any of the drugs currently used to treat
ADHD.”
Between January 2000, and June 30, 2005, the FDA identified nearly
1,000 cases of psychosis or mania linked to the drugs in its own
database and those from the drug makers themselves.
The antipsychotics are just as dangerous as the SSRI antidepressants,
Healy says. “Long before the antidepressants were linked with
akathisia, the antipsychotics were universally recognized as causing
this problem,” he explains in the Lane interview. “It was also
universally accepted that the akathisia they induce risked precipitating
the patient into suicidality or violence.”
“They also cause a physical dependence,” Healy states. “Zyprexa is
among the drugs most likely to cause people to become physically
dependent on it.”
“In addition,” he points out, “these drugs are known to cause a range
of neurological syndromes, diabetes, cardiovascular problems, and other
problems.”
“It’s hard to understand how blind clinicians can get to problems
like these, especially in youngsters who grow obese and become diabetic
right before their eyes,” Healy tells Lane.
As for what he calls the “medicalization of childhood,” in the radio
interview, Healy points out that “children always have been unhappy,
they always have been nervous, but that’s actually part and parcel of
being a child.”
“You have to go through these things,” he said. “This is how we learn
to cope with the problems of life.”
Children can best be helped in the safest way, he says, “if they’re
just seen and if they actually have the opportunity to talk about their
problems, and if they get basic and sensible input about how to perhaps
help them cope with these problems.”
Healy said it’s important to remember that severe mental illness is
rare in children and that most children with a mental health problem do
not need medication. Children are being picked up and put on pills “who
really don’t need to be on these pills and who are going to be injured
by them,” he warned.
“I think possibly 10 to 15 years up the road,” he told Shields,
“we’re going to be looking at a generation of children who will have
been seriously injured by the treatments that they appear
ever-increasingly likely to be put on now.”
But the administration of multiple drugs at once complicates the
situation so that it may be impossible to determine which drugs are most
responsible for the adverse reactions children experience, according to
Dr Breggin.
“Because so many doctors and so many drug companies will share the
blame for mistreating these children, they will be unable to seek
redress against individual perpetrators through the courts when they
grow up,” he explains.
Posted by
For Today
at
11:28 PM
0
comments
Links to this post
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share to Pinterest
Newer Posts
Older Posts
Home
Subscribe to:
Posts (Atom)
TRUMP 2016
TRUMP 2016 - "THE TRUMPMEISTER"
What's Your Opinion Of NSA Leaker Edward Snowden
Is O'bama A Racist?
Should Al Sharpton Be In Federal Prison For Being A Tax Dodger?
Remembering The Downtrodden
Matthew 22: 36-40
This Blog Gladly Accepts PayPal Donations! Financial Support Is Essential! Please, Feed The Kitty!
Will You Please Make A Donation To This Blog?
Translate This Page
VISITING COUNTRIES
Follow by Email
CyclopsWarrior Blog Stats
Alexa
FEED 4: www.CyclopsWarrior.blogspot.com
Stop The Oil Blackmailers!
Gas Buddy
Oil Prices
To get live commodity prices from oil-price.net, please enable Javascript.
Real-time Earth and Moon phase
Date and Time
GiveAway Of The Day
Accountability Counts! Expose Them All!
Bargains
Circle of 13
Citizens for Legitimate Government
Citizens for Tax Justice
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau
Consumer World - Be An Informed Consumer
ConsumerAffairs Knowledge is Power!
CorpWatch
Cost of War to the United States
Exposing Online Dating Scams
Exwcutive Intelligence Review
Fairness & Accuracy In Reporting
Fat Wallet
Federal Trade Commission
Federation Of American Scientists
Fracking Of America
Internet Accuracy Project
Israeli War Criminals
iWatch News
Just Foreign Policy
Larouche
Mediaite
Mitt Romney's Skeleton Closet
My Florida Sunshine - The "Sunshine" Law
National Institute on Money in State Politics
Occupy AIPAC!
Reporters Without Borders
Republican Job Creation • Keeping Millions Unemployed!
Right Wing News
RightWingWatch
Rock Creek Free Press (defunct)
Salem-News
Sherrie Questioning All
Sibel Edmonds' Boiling Frogs
Sneaky Fine Print
SourceWatch
State Integrity Investigation
The Ruckus Society
Travis Mills Great American
U.S. National Debt Clock
Uncovering corruption within the US Customs Service
Washington's Blog 1776
Watchdog News
Watergate - The Washington Post
Where is the money?
Art-Music-Culture
4chan
All Music
Amusing Planet
Antsy Artist
Antsy Artist Redux
Art - Edinboro University
Aveleyman-Actors Compendium Film +Tv Vidcaps
Awesome 80s
BeerAdvocate - Respect Beer.
BookSteve's Library
Bruce Gallery EUP
Celebrity Gossip
Chan Archive
Chautauqua Institution
Cinema Treasures
Cover Browser A-Z
Die
Digital Jukebox
Doug Gilford's Mad Cover Site
EHow
Erie Art Museum
Explore Talent - Your Link To The Entertainment Industry
Free Will Astrology
Fun Facts, Useless Facts, Interesting Information
fUSION Anomaly
fUSION Anomaly. Technoshamanism
Greatest Films
Hoop Revolution - Get your evolution in motion™
Horoscopes - latimes.com
Inkscape
Inspirational Values | Values - Pass It On
JEOPARDY!
Kiwix
Labor Arts
Lady Gaga
Lighthouse Friends
Michael Keropian Bronze Sculpture
Ministry of Gossip
Northern California Nude Beaches
occuprint: posters from the occupy movement
Odyssey Home
Official Site for Lily Dale Assembly
Planet Botch
Political Cartoons
Registered Mediums Lily Dale
Retrospace
Retrospace Zeta
Ringling College of Art and Design
Shadowlands Haunted Places Index
Simon Barcham Green's Papermaking Moulds
SmashWords
Snowman Cookie Tutorial
SoftPink
Soothsayer
Spices 101
Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy
Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy Index
Sunshine State Comics - Fun in the Sun
Super 70s
TCM Monthly Schedule
TCM Turner Classic Movies
The Exiled
The Kubrick Corner
The Metropolitan Museum of Art
The Selvedge Yard
The What Now Labor Cartoon Zone
theCHIVE
Tom Howe
Top Beers
Tor Hershman Iconoclast
Unscramble
Urania's Mirror
Vincent Price
Vincent Price Index
Weird Universe
Wolfie Cohen's Rascal House
Word Unscramble
World Of Mysteries
ZOUCH is Literature | Art | Society
Astronomy
Astronomy Picture of the Day Archive
Better Living Through Astronomy
HubbleSite - Out of the ordinary...out of this world
HubbleSOURCE: Home
MARS Greeley Haven 360 Panorama
NASA - Home
NASA - NASA TV
NASA Heliophysics
NASA Jet Propulsion Laboratory
SETI@home
Stellarium
The Pleiades
The Scale of the Universe Interactive
Aviation
Air Sports Net - News and Weather for Aviation Pilots
Aviation Explorer | Airplane Data Facts & References
FlightAware - Flight Tracker / Flight Status
Hudson River Plane Landing (US Airways 1549)
Planearts
Virtual Aircraft Museum
Charitable Organizations
Adrienne Shelly Foundation
Celebration Donation
Doctors Without Borders
Donate animals to poor countries
Global Witness
HelpNinetyNiner
International Medical Corps
Kessler Foundation
National Association of Free Clinics
Pink Cross Foundation
Preserve Presue Isle Natural Wonder Of The Great Lakes
She's the First
Soles$Souls
Working Cars for Working Families
Comptech Security
Adobe Flash Settings Manager
Anonymizing Google's Cookie
Critical Security
Danger Room
Erunt & Ntregopt
F-Secure
Flash Cookies: The Silent Privacy Killer
IMilly
Info Security Magazine
Ipligence
Krebs On Security
Malware Intelligence
Mandiant
Naked Security
Off-the-Record Messaging
OpenSource Digital Forensics
Public Intelligence Blog
Renaissance Security
Risky Business
Schneier on Security
Security Breaches
Security Focus
Who Is
YousiCurity
Computer Software
Adobe
Anonymizer
Anonymous Remailers
Apache Subversion Binary Packages
Attribute Changer
Audacity
Audacity Users Guide
Avast! Blog
Avast! Free AntiVirus Protection Combat Proven Technology
BeginWithSoftware
Ben Lauri Computer Database
CloudFlare
CNET Downloads
Cute PDF Writer-Prints To PDF!
Download & Streaming : Software Archive : Internet Archive
Downloads.Yahoo.com
Dynebolic
Exact Audio Copy
File Search Engine | FileTram
FileHippo.com - Download Free Software
Flowplayer
Foxit PDF Converter Boycott Adobe!
Free Downloads Encyclopedia
Free Software Foundation
FREE VPN
Freenet Project
GIMP - The GNU Image Manipulation Program
GitHub
Gopher Proxy
How to Get Started With WordPress
HTML Guide
HTTrack Website Copier
ImgBurn
Internet Explorer 10 Test Drive
Karen's Power Tools
LibreOffice
Linux and GNU - GNU Project
Linux Free Online Courses and Tutorials
Linux.org
List of Free GNU/Linux Distributions
MediaCope
Metasploit Decloaking Engine
Microsoft Download Center
Microsoft Fix it Solution Center
Microsoft Windows Service Pack Center
Moonsols
Mozilla Firefox Web Browser
Open Office
Open Office User Guides
Open Source code for Windows Forensic Analysis and Incident Response
Paint.NET - Free Software for Digital Photo Editing
Penetration Testing Software
ProgrammableWeb
ProgrammableWeb
Skype
Software Protection Initiative
Source codes
SpeakPipe
Telford Tools
The GNU Operating System
The UNIX System
TrueCrypt
Uninstall Guides
VideoLAN - VLC Media Player
Virtual Dub
Webs
WidgetBox
Windows Incident Reponse
Windows Uninstaller Guides
Wireshark
Wolfram Mathematica
YourWebApps
Zone Alarm Free Firewall
µTorrent
Computer Technology
Amazon S3 Web Service
ANFY Team
ArsTechnica
Axis
BlackHat
BrightHub
CNET
Color Blind Chart
Computer Graphics Community
Computer News
Cyberia
DevScripts
Down For Everyone
DSL Reports
Extreme Tech
Extreme Tech Computing
GHacks
Internap
Into Tommorow
Intro To Digital Forensics
Known Issues For Blogger
Laptop Magazine
MarkLogic MarkMail
Nano Patents
Niche Pursuits
PC Hell
PC World
PDF-Giant
Public Access Unix
Robtex
Routing To A Bridged Network
Sites and Blogs
Tech How Tos & Tips | eHow.com
Technology LA Times
The Verge
Windows 8
Windows Secrets
Zeropaid
Conservative
Buchanan Human Events
Colonel Prouty
Commie Blaster
Conservative Babylon
Conservative Misfits
Corthell
Cutting Edge News
Debbie Schlussel
Fox Nation
http://www.alternativeright.com/
Israel Hayom
It Makes Sense
John Birch Society
Judicial Watch
Lew Rockwell
NEFA
New American
Right Perspective Podcast Blog
Snooper Report
Spero News
Steve Sailer's iSteve Blog
The Bush Record
View From The Right
Your Optimal
Conspiracy Or Fact
Alex Constantine's Blacklist
Bombshock Archives
Bombshock Forum
Christopher Bollyn
CIA Agents Reveal Secrets of the CIA
DarkGovernment
Dprogram.net - Countering Propaganda
Federal Jack
From Capitalism To Democracy
From The Wilderness
Gnostic Liberation Front
godlike Productions - Conspiracy Forum
Gordon Duff
JFK Lancer
Paul Drockton M.A.
Rense
The American Dream
The Conspiracy of King Arthur
The Economic Collapse
Consumer Protection
Help For Difficult Financial Times
Identity Theft Resource Center Blog
Identity Theft Resource Center | A Nonprofit Organization
NCLC
Pissed Consumer
The Consumerist
Trapster Speed Trap Database
Crime
America's Most Wanted with John Walsh
American Mafia
Andy Thibault Reports
Bill Warner P.I. Private Investigator
Bill Warner PI 2
Cool Justice
Crime Library TruTV
Crime Magazine
Crime Scene Cleanup
Dreamin' Demon
Exposing Online Predators & Cyberpaths
Havocscope Black Market
INTERPOL
L.A. Crime News - Los Angeles Times
Mothers Against Teen Violence | MATV
Murders Unsolved
Officer Down Memorial Page
People You'll See In Hell
Roll Call 2 Go YouTube
The Thug Report
TruTV
VPC - The Violence Policy Center
Websleuths Crime Sleuthing Community
Digital News
Amakudari
BuzzFeed
CyclopsWarrior Feed
GigaOM
High Times
http://www.truthistreason.net/
LifeHacker
Mobile Wikis
Online Journal
Paste
ReadWriteWeb
Refreshing News
StratRisks
Taki's Magazine
The American Interest
The Daily
The Daily Bell
The Real News Network
The Week Magazine
VICE | United States
Wapedia Mobile Encyclopedia
War Room
Weasel Zippers |
Webopedia
Education
50 Common Latin Phrases
Business History
Business Insider
Cranbrook Academy of Art
Cranbrook CEC
Edinboro University
edX
edX - What Is It? - MIT News Office
Federal Judicial Library
Guinness World Records
Internet Detective
Internet FAQ Archives - Online Education
Intute - Home
Latin legal phrases, maxims and writs with translations
Latin Quotes, Phrases & Mottos: Learn the Wisdom!
McGill University
National Labor College Home
On-Line Mathematics Utilities
On-line Tutorials
Ripley's Believe It Or Not!
SIAM: Society for Industrial and Applied Mathematics
Stanford Encyclopedia Of Philosophy
Tips | Life Advice | Life Improvement
Top 10 Lists - Listverse
WAYNE'S WORD
We Use Math
ZNet | About
Employment
America's Trucking Newspaper
Employers Hiring In Large Volumes
Erie Vital Signs
Explore Talent
Gig.com - Find Your Next Job
Job Application Center - Great Resource!
Jobs
Marty Nemko Employment Specialist
MSN Career Builder
National Alliance of State Broadcasters Associations
Passive Panda
Project Jobs | Erie PA - Erie Regional Chamber
Radio Boadcasting Jobs
Radio+Records Now Billboard
Railroad Job Vacancies Reported to the RRB
Simply Hired
TVNewser: Jobs
Environment
Animal Planet
Eole Water - Give us wind, we give you water
Fairewinds Energy Education
Grist | Environmental News
Recycling 101 - Earth911
Reduce, Reuse, Recycle | US EPA
Finances
A Taxing Blog-Fleischer
All About Silver
Can Do Finance
CME Group - Formerly NYMEX
CNBC
CNN Money
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau
Debtor Boards
Earned Income Tax
Economic Policy Journal
Financial Sense
Financial Times
Forbes Mobile
Free Annual Credit Reports
Gas Buddy
Home Business Resources
Inflation Calculator
List of Commodity Delivery Dates
Loan Calculators
Money Games
Mr. Credit Card
Mt.Gox - Bitcoin Exchange
My Budget 360
New Money
Oil Prices + News
Personal Finance Yahoo
Prosper Loans
Seeking Alpha
Silver and Gold Payment Calculator
Silver Doctors
Spirit Of Jubilee
Tax Prof
The Wire
The World's Billionaires
Yahoo Finance
ZeroHedge
Foreign News
Al Jazeera English
Asia Times Online
Canadian News
Censorbugbear reports...
China Space News
Chính's News
DailyMail UK
Der Spiegel
Deutsche Welle
Foreign Policy
IAfrica
Informed Comment Juan Cole
Inter Press Service
Itar-Tass
Latest Darwin & Territory News
Le Monde diplomatique - English edition
LEAP 2020
Mathaba - Independent News Agency
MIGnews Ukraine
Mondoweiss | The War of Ideas in the Middle East
My Catbird Seat
New Zimbabwe
Opinion Maker - Foresight With Insight!
People of Shambhala
People's Daily Online - Home Page
Pravda
Press TV Iran
Reporters Without Borders
RT-Russia Today
SACSIS
Siberian Light — The Russia Blog
Sydney Morning Herald
The Local - Norway's News In English
The Local - Sweden's news in English
Trend
Xinhua
Forums
American Express OPEN Forum
APFN Movies
BitTorrent HeadQuarters (BTHQ)
Bluelight - The Front Page
Drugs Forum
East Asia Forum
F2 Anonboard
Official Dating Resource
OhInternet Forums
PrisonPlanet Forum
Reddit
Tundra Tabloids
Z Communications
Gambling Reference
Adopt A Greyhound
Andy Beyer DRF
Australian HorseRacing
BloodHorse
Courier Journal Racing Coverage
Daily Racing Form
Dania Jai Alai
ElDorado Reno
Equestrian College
Equibase
Equidaily News Headlines
ESPN Horse Racing
Exotic Wagering Charts
Female Jockeys
Fox HorseRacing
Gamblers Anonymous
Gambling Addiction Las Vegas
Gaming News
Global Greyhounds
Greyhound Data
Greyhound Network News
Greyhound Pets Of America
Greyhound Racing News
Greyhound Tracks USA
HANA 2012 Track Ratings
Handicapping
Harness Link
Harness Racing Results
Harness Racing Stars
Hello Race Fans!
Horse Schools
HorseRacing Entries
HorseRacing Nation
HorseRacing Results
International Gaming Institute
Jockey Club
LadBrokes Games
Miami Jai Alai
National Gambling Commission
National Greyhound Association
Night At The Dogs
NTRA
NTRA Youtube
Paulick Report
Presque Isle Downs
Problem Gambling
Public Gaming Magazine
Racing Commissioners International
Racing Index
Racing Medications + Testing Consortium
Racing Officials
Sarasota Kennel Club
The Big M
The Rail NY Times HorseRacing Blog
Thoroughbred Times
Track Master
TrackInfo
TrackInfo2
Trackside View
Twinspires
UNLV Gaming Law Journal
UNLV Gaming Research
UNR Gambling Studies
US Lotteries
US Trotting Association
US Trotting Youtube
Wheeling Greyhound
Genetics DNA
1000 Genomes
Bio-Medicine
CGS : Center for Genetics and Society
DNA Tests for Ethnicity & Genealogical
Known Donor Registry Reproduction
Online Mendelian Inheritance in Man
Oxford Ancestors
Google
Contact Google
Gmail: Email from Google
Google Advanced Search
Google Analytics
Google Blogger
Google Blogger Forums
Google Docs
Google Drive
Google Earth
Google Ideas
Google Images SSL
Google Maps
Google News
Google Products Directory
Google Search Features
Google Search SSL
Google Sky
Google Street View
Google Translate
Google Trends
Google Url Shortener
Google Videos SSL
Google Voice - Features
Google Website Translator
Google+
Research at Google
Government
AllGov
FBI — FOIA
Federal Business Opportunities
Government Computer News
Internal Revenue Service
Pennsylvania Vendors Resources
Publications.USA.gov
Q1 Medicare
Q1 Medicare 2
Ready.gov
Social Security Online
Tire Ratings@Safecar.gov
TreasuryDirect
U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics
United States Department of Defense
United States Department of Justice
United States Railroad Retirement Board Home Page
Health
Adult Vaccinations
Am I Hungry?® Mindful Eating Weight Managemen
Calculate BMI
CDC - Quit Smoking - Smoking & Tobacco Use
Choose My Plate
European Network for Smoking and Tobacco Prevention
Food-A-Pedia
Healthy Men
Healthy Men - Get Preventive Medical Tests
Hesperian Health Guides
Kaiser State Health Facts
Legacy Tobacco Documents Library
Med Support Online
Medicare
Men’s Interests and Lifestyle
Nicotine Addiction
Nicotine Anonymous
Prescription Assistance Program
Smokefree.gov
Smoking Kills - Bryan Story - "He wanted you to know"
Social Security
Spark People
Suicide Prevention, Suicide Awareness, Suicide Support
Super Tracker
US Mad Scientists
Utopian Pharmacology
Why Quit
History
Exposing World History
Grover Furr's Home Page
Heilbrunn Timeline of Art History
History Commons
History News Network
Hstory Of Toilet Paper
Internet Archive: Digital Library of Free Books, Movies, Music & Wayback Machine
The Flagship Niagara
The History Blog
The History Place
US Census Genealogy
World History Archives
Hobbies
Canadian Mint
Casa de Moneda de México
Coin Community
Coins
DXing Radio Enthusiasts
Estes Rockets
Esylum Archive - Coins
Fishing Rigging Guides
Fold Boat
Mint News
Numismatic Bibliomania Society
Scrapbook Lifetips
Scrapbooking
US Mint
Humor
Assassinated Press
AtlasObscura
Bartcop
Bartcop BartBlog
Cats In Space
Cracked
Dave + Jimmy
Dvorak
Encyclopedia Dramatica
Fail Blog
Freaking News Photoshop Contests
Funny Weird
Gallery of the Absurd
Glossy News
Internet Weekly
OhInternet
PCL LinkDump
Peoples Cube
How To
Auto Repair Manuals and Videos
How It's Made : Science Channel
How To Spend It
IFixit Free Repair Manuals
RockAuto Auto Parts
Save And Invest
Tire Retread & Repair Information Bureau
Wired How-To Wiki
Investigative
Dan Rather, Schema-Root news
Dark Alliance: The Story Behind the Crack Explosion
Genocide Watch
Greg Palast | Investigative Reporter
Henry Makow
Historiographic Anarchy
History Commons
International Consortium of Investigative Journalists
Investigative News Network
MadCow Morning News
MadCow Morning News Archive
Michael Yon | Facebook
News & Public Affairs Internet Archive
Papers, Please!
Poor Richards Blog
PR Watch | Reporting on spin and disinformation since 1993.
Rys2Sense
The Daily Bail
The Daily Censored News Blog
Liberal
"The Rant" by Tom Degan
Aangirfan
Albion Monitor Archives Mirror
Allen L Roland's Weblog
Bloomberg
Brad DeLong
Carole Moore Reports
CarolMoore.Net
Common Dreams
Corbett Report
COTO Report
Cryptogon
Dangerous Minds
DC Bureau
Decline of the Empire
Dissident Voice
Fishink
Jon Rappoport's Blog
Media Matters for America
Missa Eaton for Congress
Mother Jones
MoveOn
No More Fake News
Ostrey Reports
PR Watch
Prairie Fire News
Public Banking Institute
Reason
Rednecks' Revolt
Santorum Watch
SkyDancing
Steve Lendman
The Blog of Progress
The Burning Platform
The Daily Beast
The Downing Street Memo
The Wattree Chronicle
ThinkProgress
Thomson Reuters News and Insight Legal
Tikun olam
Truthdig: Drilling Beneath the Headlines
World Socialist Web Site
LulzSec/Anonymous
AnonNews - TPB
AnonNews.org : Everything Anonymous
Anonymous Activism Community
Anonymous Analytics
Anonymous Public Relations - "Media can't twist our words"
AnonymousIRC On Twitter
Bradley Manning Support Network
Cryptogon
Cryptome
Cyber War News
CyberGuerrilla AnoNneXus
Hack Forums
Hacker News
Hacking News - Softpedia
HTTPS Everywhere | Electronic Frontier Foundation
IronGeek
Ixquick Search Engine
LeakDirectory
LeakSource
Manning's Quantico Adventure
News - AnonSource Technologies
OpenLeaks
Par:AnoIA Twitter
Pastebin Trendiing
Pastes - Pastie
PirateBay Proxy
Potentially Alarming Research: Anonymous Intelligence Agency
Public Intelligence
Public Intelligence (publicintel) on Twitter
Risk Assessment | Ars Technica
Securelist - Information about Viruses, Hackers and Spam
StartPage Search Engine
StopBadware
The Hacker News
The Hacker News Magazine Free All Issues
The Hacker`s Arena
The Lulz Boat (LulzSec) on Twitter
Twitter / Search - #AntiSec
Wardriving FAQ
WikiLeaks
WikiLeaks (wikileaks) on Twitter
WikiLeaks Central
Wikileaks Mirror Sites Phenomenon
WSJ SafeHouse
Y Combinator News
Your Anon News
Your Anon News • Get Involved
Mariners
Bollinger Shipyards
DonJon Ship Bulding-Erie
Erie Shipping News
Maritime Executive
Maritime Professional
Military Sealift Command
Seafarers International Union
Seafarers Union Halls Employment Opportunities
Sealift Command Employment Opportunities
Set Sail
US Navy
US Navy.Mil
Mental Health
Copeland Center for Wellness and Recovery
Depression and Bipolar Support Alliance
Eric Berne
Fears vs. Dreams
Games People Play
Get Ready to Leap « Leap Institute
Hazelden -- Addiction Treatment Center
Live Right Live Well
Menninger Clinic
Mental Health - How To Information
To Write Love on Her Arms
VA Mental Health-Integrating Back To Civilian Life
Wellness Recovery Action Plan
Military
1st Cav Medic (Airmobile) Vietnam
DEBKAfile
DefenceTalk | Aerospace Defense News
DefenseTech
Go Navy
I Like The Cut Of His Jib !!
Iraq Veterans Against the War
Military Corruption USA Style
Military News
Navy and Novels
Oil Price Oil+Opium=WAR
Professor Gordon Bowen Political Science
Terrorism South Asia
The Law Office of David E. Coombs
The Tiger is Dead
Understanding Power
US Coast Guard Digital Collection
VA Benefits Blog
Veterans for Common Sense
VoteVets.org
War Links
War News Updates
Movies
Collateral Murder
Debt Slave George
Download & Streaming : Moving Image Archive : Internet Archive
Kitman TV
Snowshoe Documentary Films
Top Documentary Films
Underground Documentaries
US Enslaved
Music
Amorphis
Madonnaliscious
Rolling Stone
Rush
Rush Is A Band
Sinister Salad Musikal's Weblog
YouTube - Broadcast Yourself.
News Aggregators
ABC News
Associated Press
Blacklisted News
Breaking News
BuzzFeed
CBS News
CNN
CNN Anchors-Reporters
Coming Crisis
Daily Kenn
Digital Journal
Drudge Report
Drudge Retort
FARK
Forbes
Fox
Free Republic
From The Trenches
Global Post
Huffington Post
Latino Post
ListServe
McClatchy Politics
Mish's Global Economic Trend Analysis
MOX News
NBC News
NewsDaily
Odd News
Poor Mojo's Newswire
Reuters
The Blaze
The Christian Science Monitor
The McClatchy Company
What Really Happened
Newspapers
American Journalism Review-American Newspaers
Artvoice: Buffalo's #1 Newsweekly
Assault on Learning | Philadelphia Inquirer
Chronicle Journal Thunder Bay
Cleveland Plain Dealer
Daily Mail UK
Denver Post
Denver Westword
Geelong, Surf Coast - Australia
GoErie
Honolulu Star-Bulletin Specials
Khaleej Times
LA Weekly
Los Angeles Times
Miami Herald
Milwaukee Journal Sentinel
New Orleans Times-Picayune
News And Wire Services
Newseum
Newspaper Death Watch
NY Post
NY Times
NY Times Global
Oregonian Portland
Orlando Sentinel
PennLive Patriot News
Pennsylvania Independent
Perth Now AU
Philadelphia Inquirer
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
Reno Gazette-Journal
San Francisco Chronicle
San Francisco Examiner
Star-Advertiser Honolulu
Tampa Bay Times
Telegraph UK
The Guardian UK
Thousands of Newspapers on the Net
Times Of India
Today's Front Pages Via Newseum
Toronto Star
UPI
USA Today
Nukes-One Flash And You're Ash!
Atom Bomb photos, movies, & videos
Frequently Asked Questions on Potassium Iodide (KI)
It is 5 Minutes to Midnight | Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists
Nuclear Darkness | The Deadly Consequences Of Nuclear War
Nuclear Threat Initiative
Nuclear-News
Radiation Emergency Medical Management Nuclear Detonation: Weapons, Improvised Nuclear Devices
Radiation Event Medical Management
The nuclear information project: the B61-11
Tthe Nuclear Information Project
Open Source Intelligence
Antiwar.com
Armageddon Online
Celebrity Net Worth
CI Centre
Consortium News Since 1995
Consumer Disclosure, A LexisNexis® Service
CorporateMediaExposed
Courthouse News Service
CRYPTOCOMB
Cryptome
Cryptome Twitter via John Young
Deborah Natsios+ John Young Bibliography
FBI — Directorate of Intelligence
FBI — Operational Technology
FOIA
Gerald Celente Trends Blog
Global Research
Global Research TV
IARPA
Insurance News Net
Investment News: Money Morning
JASON Defense Advisory Panel
Jellyfish INTEL Inc.
JollyRoger
Justia
Justia Dockets & Filings
Library — Central Intelligence Agency
Life Settlements
Ministry of Mythinformation
National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency
OilEmpireUS
Osint - links
Osint - Open Source INTelligence
Search OSINT
Stats about all US cities:City-Data
Stratfor
Temas: Indice-Topix:Index
The Hive (website)
The National Security Archive
The Surveillance Catalog - The Wall Street Journal
Want To Know
Washington's Blog 1776
WAYNE MADSEN REPORT - Wayne Madsen Report
Wayne Madsen, Schema-Root news
Original
Alternet
American Rhetoric
Cryptogon
DC Bureau
Diversity is Chaos
Paul Kersey | VDARE
Red County
Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy
Stuff Black People Don't Like
The Exiled
The Peoples Voice
The Register: Sci/Tech News for the World
Tom Flocco
Tom Roeser
TomDispatch
Vlad Tepes
Photography
Amtrak Photo Archives
ARRI Group
Bob Atkins
Camera Manual Library
Camera Museum
Camera Quest
Camerapedia
Getty Images
GoPro
I B On The Net
Jeroen-Too Much Sleep
Jo Freeman Photojournalist
LYTRO
Martin's Photography+Tech Museum
Medical Photography Archives
MSN Photos
Payphone Project
Photoshop-Phriday
Photsynth
Pixiq
Reuter's Photojournalism
Schneider-Kreuznach
TotoPhoto Animal Photgrapher
Willoughbys NYC
World Press Photo
Political
AMERICAblog
American Thinker
APFN
Barack Obama
Barefoot's World
BillLawrenceOnline
DownWithTyranny!
First Principles
George W. Bush, Jr. - The Dark Side
Mike Kelly SUX
Misssa Eaton For Congress PA-3
Obama Truth Team
Obama: White House Dossier
PoliticsPA
PoliticusUSA
PolitiFact | Sorting out the truth in politics
Salon
The Diplomat
The Right Perspective
Uruknet
Privacy
Andre Bacard On Privacy
Anonymous Remailer FAQ
Anonymous Search Engines
Browse like Bond
C Y P H E R P U N K S
EFF Surveillance Self-Defense Project
Electronic Frontier Foundation
Electronic Frontier Foundation - YouTube
Electronic Privacy Information Center
HOWTO bypass Internet Censorship
InSecurity Complex: By Elinor Mills - CNET
Mixmaster
Privacy and Security Fanatic
Privacy Inc. - CNET News
Privacy Inc.CISPA
Privacy News
Privacy SOS
proXPN VPN |
Startpage Search Engine
Taking Liberties - CBS News
Threat Level - Privacy, Crime and Security Online
TOOLS-ON.NET - Network tools from Alexander K. Yezhov
WeKnowYourHouse
Zero Day | ZDNet
Projects
Anarchopedia
AnarchyNation
Democrat Compendium
dKosopedia
Erowid
Global Square
Global Square Wiki
Global Village Construction Set
Human Beings First
New Mexico's Digital Collection
Open Carry
Open Directory Project
Peanut Institute
Project Gutenberg
Schema-Root
Skeleton Closet
Skolnicks Report Mirror Site
Spunk Press Mirror Site
Top 10 Lists
Vatic Project
Radio
Art Bell Via Pirate Bay
ArtBell.Com Via The Wayback Machine
Bloomberg Radio
Bob Lassiter Airchecks
CBC
CBS News MoneyWatch
CBS Radio By Market Listen Live!
Computer America Free Podcasts!
Dave And Jimmy Show Facebook
Dave And Jimmy Syndication
Dave And Jimmy Twitter Feed
FREE-iTunes - Podcasts - Bloomberg Presents Lewis Lapham by Bloomberg News
Hal Turner Radio Archives
Hour of the Time
Hour of the Time » Complete Cooper MP3 Collection
Howard Stern Show
KCMO AM710 Kansas City
KILO 94.3FM Colorado Springs
Kim Komando
KOA AM850 Denver
KROQ Southern California
Lew Rockwell Podcast Archive
Lewis Lapham Podcast - Bloomberg
Lewis Lapham Podcasts
Press + Tower
Professional Packet Radio
Radio Archives
Radio Stations Streaming on the Internet
Right Perspective Podcast Blog
Steve Sommers AM700 WLW
Talkers
The Doug Stephan Show
Vincent Price Radio Shows Free Downloads
WBCQ The Planet International Shortwave
WCBS AM880 New York City Listen Live
WFLA AM970 Tampa
WFSE Edinboro interviews Bon Jovi - 1983 Dave Kaelin Bill Palmer
WNCI Columbus Home Of The Dave and Jimmy Show
ZoomerRadio AM740 Toronto
Real Estate
Neighborhood Scout
RedFin
Zillow
Reference
A View On Cities
About.com
Academic Earth
Addictive Tips
Alexa Top Sites
American Egg Board
American Rhetoric
Backpage
Bing
Bing Translator WAS BABEL FISH
Book Of Doors
Brainz
Citizendium
City-Data
CraigsList
Dayerses - World of Cars
Dictionary of Sexual Terms and Expressions
Docstoc
Dr Dave's House Of Fun
Drug Chemistry
Drugs Erowid
EHow
EHow Tech
Estates of the Realm
FactSpy
Hotmail
HTwins
Internet Archive
Internet Tutorials
Japan Earthquake 2011 B4+After Pix
Legal Dictionary
On This Day
Periodic Table Of Elements
Piero Scaruffi's Knowledge Base
Pirate Bay via Proxy
Political Graveyard
Printable Paper
Rational Wiki
Recipe Lion
Refuse + Resist
Rotten Library
Steal This Book Mirror Site/Wiki
Taxi Library
Urban Dictionary
Want To Know
WayBack Machine Internet Archive
Wikimedia Commons
WikiNews
Wikipedia
WikiSpooks
Wordnik
Yahoo Search
Zoklet
Zone Interdite
Religion+Values
Atlah
ATLAH Worldwide
Brother Nathanael
Brother Nathanael Foundation
Daily Meditation
El Satuario De Chimayo
Failed Messiah
Father Charles E. Coughlin
Germany 1940 - Israel 2009
Hellivision
Holy Smoke
Homepage for Lewis Loflin
Info On Islam
Interview With God
Islamic Infamy
Jesus Is Savior
Justice Of God
Mark Morrow
Marzulli
Matthew Alper
Messenger Of Joy
Most Holy Family Monastery
New Prophecy
New Prophecy 2
Our Lady's Warriors
Police State U.S.A.
Prepare For Mass
Rapture Cults
Saints
Salve Maria Regina
Secret Harbour
St Patrick Homilies
The Christophers
The High Calling
The Inquisition
The WORD Among Us
Vertical Searcher
World Jewish Daily
Socially Conscious
Activist Post
American Censorship
American Poverty
AmpedStatus
Another World Is Possible
Beyond 7 Billion - latimes.com
Broward Bulldog
EarthTimes
GI Rights Hotline
Give Something Back Office Supplies
Greenpeace
IndyMedia US
Just Harvest
Len Penzo
NationofChange
Nl-Aid Netherlands
OCA: Genetically Engineered Food, Biotechnology, and GMOs
Officer Down Memorial Page
OweNo
Peter G. Peterson Foundation
Project Censored
ProPublica
The Intercept
The Social Contract Press
What is ALEC? - Alec Exposed
Student Loan Bandits
Direct Consolidation Loans Dept Of Education
Falling behind on your student loan payments? > Consumer Financial Protection Bureau
Forgive Student Loan Debt to Stimulate the Economy
National Student Loan Data System for Students
Occupy Student Loan Debt
Student Loan Borrower Assistance
Student Loan Debt Clock
Student Loan Justice
Technology
Ars Technica Jobs
Broadband Speed Checke
Cell Phone Jammer Kit
Crenk
Discovery News:
Fusionplant
Future of Tech on NBCNews
GBPPR Projects
IBM Watson
Internet.com - The Network for Technology Professionals
ITworld
Land Of Bile
Law & Disorder | Ars Technica
Michael Butkus Jr
MIT News Office
Network World
OpenSignalMaps
OpenStreetMap
PC World
Phys.Org
Phys.Org Mobile: latest science and technology news
Physics ToolKit (World-in-Motion)
Pioneer Europe
R&D Mag
Reverse Cell Phone Lookup
Roy Tanck's weblog
SAI: Tools
Satellite Phones & Satellite Internet
Scanner and Radio Frequency Reference
Science Daily
Science News
Scientific Method
Singularity Hub
Slashdot: News
Smarter News, Analysis & Research Communities
SUBMITTERATOR
Tecca
TechGlobeX
Technibble
Technical Library
Technolog on NBCNews
Technology News
Technology Review
Terabyte
The Bunsen Burner
The Venus Project
World Of Technology
ZDNet
Television
Bloomberg
CBS Philly
CTV Toronto
Current TV
KCNC Denver
KGO San Francisco
KOB Albuquerque
KTLA LA
Mission: Impossible
NBC News Network
Seinfeld Episode Guide
Shilo
Watch Now - Al Jazeera English
WICU - WSEE
WJET
WTSP Tampa Bay
Tor Onion Routing
Download Tor
Psiphon-Delivering The Net
Onion Routing
Torrents
Articles - ExtraTorrent
BT FAQ
ExtraTorrent.
NuTorrent
Only Torrents
Rarbg
ScanEye Anti-Pirate Website
The Pirate Bay
Torrent Freak
True Torrent
Totally Politically Incorrect - Rise Above The Hate
Arthur Kemp's Blog
Black On White Crime
Boer Genocide
Chimpmania
Chimpout
Council of Conservative Citizens
David Duke, PhD
Detective Shaved Longcock
FinalCall.com News
GUN WATCH
HateWatch
INCOG MAN
INCOG MAN WordPress Blog Mirror
Inductivist
Irateirishman
Irish Savant
Jim Diodon
Judicial Inc - Beware Malware
Judicial Inc Via Block Your ID
Judicial-Inc Archive Via Blogger
Judicial-Inc.biz Mirror
New Nation News
Nicholas Stix
NiviusVir’s Blog
Occidental Dissent
Patrick J. Buchanan
Political Cesspool
Real Jew News
Refugee Resettlement Watch
Solar General
South Asia Terrorism Portal
Steve Sailer's iSteve Blog
StormFront
Tomato Bubble
Vanguard News Network Forum
Zionist Wolf in Sheep's Clothing
Trade Helps Lift All Boats Merchant Certified
..:: BRIGGS GUITARS ::..
1201 Kitchen Erie, PA
6PM shoe outlet
Abbatron Electrical Parts Made In USA
Alliance Office Supply Lakewood Coloradp
Amazon
Amazon Store Directory
America's Ultimate Shooting Sports Discounter
Amsterdam Seed Bank
AutoZone
Bilstein Auto Parts
Bookase Buy+Sell College Texts
BroadStreet Tobacco Salamanca
CafePress Custom T-Shirts and More
Camping World
Campmor Outdoor Supplies
CD Universe
Chemical-Supermarket
ChimayoTrading Native American Art
Colorado Beef Jerkey
Decoist
Decorative Signs
Dimpflmeier Bakery Toronto
Doctor Bag and Medical Cases
Drought Masters
Ebay
El Potrero Trading Post Chimayo
ELMO Teacher Supplies
Fat Wallet
Galaxy Army Navy Store
German Deli Online
Giveaway Of The Day
Golden Ox Kansas City
Hazmat Supplies
Hidalgos Quality Eyewear At Great Prices
Indiegogo Funding Platform
InkSupply.com Absolutely the Best
Joes Boot Shop Clovis
Karton Group Australia
Kendall and Son Cleaning Supplies
Kiehl's Since 1851
Kit Homes
Lewis Machine & Tool Company
Living Simply in Small Spaces
Looxie Cameras
MIL-SPEC MONKEY
National Motorists Association Website
National Pecan Shellers Association
National Sunflower Association
NewEgg
Pendelton Online Catalog
PirateBay Gear
Postcard Mania
PowerPwn
Shop DSL
Southwest Cheese
Stagecoach West
Sunland Peanuts New Mexico
Sunshine Mint Idaho
ThinkGeek
Turtle Wax ICE
United Nuclear , Scientific Equipment & Supplies
Universal Radio
Ural Russian Sidecar Motorcycles
VistaPrint
Wild Fire Tees
Travel
Absolutely Florida
Allegiant Air
Americana
AMTRAK
Australia
Burj Al Arab - Luxury Hotels in Dubai - Jumeirah
Destinations
Endemico
Flight Radar 24
Free Worldwide Travel Guides - Wikitravel
Freedom Tower NYC
Grand Hotel Mackinac Island
Hats and Accessories
Honolulu Magazine
Hostel World
Iceland
Mackinac Island
Megabus
Presque Isle State Park
The Ritz-Carlton
Third World Traveler
Travel to USA
Travel Warnings US Dept. Of State
VEGAS INC
What Happens Here Stays Here
Youth Hostels
UFO's
ET Embassy
National UFO Center
UFO Center
UFO Daily News
Unions
AFL-CIO
Certificate Programs - National Labor College
Communications Workers of America
International Brotherhood of Teamsters (IBT)
National Labor College Main
Seafarers Merchant Marine
SEIU - Service Employees International Union
Stand With Wisconsin :: Wisconsin State AFL-CIO
Talking Union
Truth-Out
Unemployed Workers
Unemployment LifeLine
Union Free Labor Relations Institute
Union Label
Union Label Index
Weather Hurricanes Volcanos Earthquakes
Earthquake - Google Search
Hurricane Central
Hurricane Tracker - weather.com
IRIS - Recent Earthquake Teachable Moments
IRIS Seismic Monitor
Latest Earthquakes in the World - Past 7 days
Mayon Volcano, Philippines - John Seach
Moon Information Resource And Guide
Moonrise and Moonset Calculator
National Hurricane Center
Severe Weather Warnings Page
Sunrise Sunset Calendars
Time + Date
Weather.com - Map Room
Weather.Gov
911
2011 911 Special
2011 Ten Year Anniversary
911 Blogger
911 Central
911 Conspirators
911 Covert Operations
911 Data Sets
911 Emperor's Clothes
911 Essentials
911 False Flag
911 Forum UK
911 Inside Job
911 Memorial
911 Oddities
911 Oddities 2
911 Prior Knowledge Archive
911 Serendipity
911 TV Archive
911 Veterans Today
911 Wikispooks
A&E 911 Truth
Bollyn 911 Archive
CIA 911 Files
Colorado 911 Visibility
Daniel Hopsicker 2.0 911 Archive
How 911 Was Done
Judy Wood Phd
Killtown Search
Pilots For 911 Truth
Scholars For 911 Truth
September 11 News
Solving 911 PDF
Solving 911 Salem-News
The Unofficial Story
Towers Demolished
Understanding 911 TV Archives
Visibility 911
Visibilty 911 Blog
Who Did It
Wolf In Sheep's Clothing
World Trade Center
WTC
WTC Demolition
Adult
Adult DVD Talk
Adult Video Universe
Adult Wiki
Betty Page Tribute
Fox News Babes
IAFD
Lindsay Lohan's Boobs
Luke Is Back
Model Mayhem
Nude Celebs
NuTorrent
Planet Suzy
RAME
The Nude EU
Vintage Erotica
XBiz
xHamster
Blog Archive
►
2015
(399)
►
November
(1)
►
October
(73)
►
September
(22)
►
August
(48)
►
July
(34)
►
June
(43)
►
May
(34)
►
April
(38)
►
March
(36)
►
February
(47)
►
January
(23)
►
2014
(341)
►
December
(37)
►
November
(30)
►
October
(29)
►
September
(21)
►
August
(40)
►
July
(51)
►
June
(38)
►
May
(17)
►
April
(28)
►
March
(24)
►
February
(18)
►
January
(8)
►
2013
(326)
►
December
(22)
►
November
(17)
►
October
(5)
►
September
(29)
►
August
(28)
►
July
(11)
►
June
(24)
►
May
(33)
►
April
(52)
►
March
(36)
►
February
(51)
►
January
(18)
►
2012
(286)
►
December
(44)
►
November
(28)
►
October
(11)
►
September
(25)
►
August
(33)
►
July
(34)
►
June
(28)
►
May
(15)
►
April
(15)
►
March
(16)
►
February
(13)
►
January
(24)
►
2011
(269)
►
December
(35)
►
November
(21)
►
October
(14)
►
September
(17)
►
August
(47)
►
July
(33)
►
June
(7)
►
May
(15)
►
April
(10)
►
March
(11)
►
February
(19)
►
January
(40)
▼
2010
(338)
►
December
(17)
►
November
(8)
►
October
(18)
►
September
(5)
►
August
(18)
►
July
(12)
►
June
(4)
►
May
(20)
▼
April
(44)
With Claws Grasping Arrows And Olive Leaves, Hilla...
Ice Box All The Way In Saturday's Kenticky Derby #...
Your fastest Internet in the world is found in Ber...
Hundreds Of Billions For Weaponry-None For Jobs, T...
Morpheus (mythology)
Virginia stamps out license to hate: DMV recalls p...
Thanks For Being There! April 5 - April 27, More T...
There Will Always Be A Place For Newspapers Even I...
Priest's oral sex from choirboy sold on streets as...
CENSORED This Is Crazy! ICBM's With Conventional W...
Hebrews To Hold "Nuke Iran" Rally in NYC Sunday-CA...
BIG PHARMA DRUG WHORES WANT TO MEDICATE YOUR INFAN...
Civil War Looms as Kyrgyzstan Riots Grow Normalcy ...
SPLC'S TAKE ON "FREE" SPEECH-OKAY AS LONG AS IT DO...
Satan's Children Fill The Earth! or - America's Go...
Boliva Prez: Eating Chicken Makes You Gay
Drill Here, Drill Now! + Environmental Disaster
Rising Rental Housing Costs! Landlords vs. the Ser...
The Horror Of Religious Persecution!
Oy Vey! Chief Rabbi Escapes Tragic Flight
LIVE ICELAND VOLCANO CAM
Eyjafjallajökull frá Hvo...
OY VEY! SPITZER CALLED A SUPERMAN FOR BOFFING 3 CA...
OY VEY! HEBREWS IN KEY GOVERNMENT POSITIONS! ALLEG...
Little Irish Faggot Hannity and His Bogus Freedom ...
The Russians and the Katyn Massacre
Tragic! CENSORED VERSION
American empire on the slippery slope of decline
8 Years of Bush/Cheyney = National Disaster!
Oy Gevalt! Lech Kaczyński Enroute To 70th Annivers...
This Is What A Plane Crash Looks Like! What Really...
Belgium Moves Closer to Europe's First Burqa Ban
Policy Players In PA Clean Up On "Lucky Numbers", ...
ISP's Want to Meter Your Bandwidth, Governments Wa...
CENSORED Microsoft - Internet Explorer 9 will not ...
WAR WITH KYRGYSTAN TO KEEP AIR BASE OPEN=WAR WITH ...
Who The Hell is Sumaya Abu-Haidar? And, Where Does...
Billionaire Coal Mine Owner Owns WV Supreme Court ...
Psycho Babysitter Beats 11 Month old, Mercilessly!...
10,000+ HITS! THANKS!
GI's! Stay In The Service! Only Jobs Here on The M...
Top Stories! Browse and read!
Sunshine! Sort Of? Federal Reserve Must Disclose B...
May 2010 Issue of Playboy-Ashley Dupree May Issue ...
Paramilitary Texas Nazi Judge Sentences Criminal T...
►
March
(25)
►
February
(66)
►
January
(101)
►
2009
(189)
►
December
(47)
►
November
(38)
►
October
(43)
►
September
(26)
►
August
(15)
►
July
(1)
►
June
(4)
►
May
(8)
►
April
(7)
Followers
US NATIONAL DEBT
Learn more about
us debt .
Get the
National Debt Clock
widget and many other
great free widgets
at
Widgetbox !
Student Loan Debt Clock
Cost Of War
About Me
For Today
Destruction Bay, Yukon Territory, Canada
Bachelor over 55
View my complete profile
Powered by
Blogger .
Fish
Search This Blog
Loading...
Total Pageviews