MARCURIUS
MARCURIUS
Jumat, 30 Januari 2009
Cult
Cult
Mercury
by
Hendrick Goltzius , 1611 (Frans Halsmuseum, Haarlem)
General article:
Cult (religion) .
Though temples to Hermes existed throughout
Greece , a major center of his cult was at
Pheneos
in
Arcadia , where festivals in his honor were called
Hermoea .
As a crosser of boundaries,
Hermes Psychopompos'
("conductor of the soul") was a
psychopomp , meaning he brought newly-dead souls to the
Underworld
and
Hades . In the Homeric
Hymn to Demeter , Hermes conducted
Persephone
the Kore (young girl or virgin), safely back to
Demeter . He also brought dreams to living mortals.
Among the
Hellenes , as the related word
herma
("a boundary stone, crossing point") would suggest, Hermes embodied the spirit of crossing-over: He was seen to be manifest in any kind of interchange, transfer, transgressions, transcendence, transition, transit or traversal, all of which involve some form of crossing in some sense. This explains his connection with transitions in one’s fortune -- with the interchanges of goods, words and information involved in trade, interpretation, oration, writing -- with the way in which the wind may transfer objects from one place to another, and with the transition to the afterlife.
Many graffito dedications to Hermes have been found in the
Athenian Agora , in keeping with his epithet of
Agoraios
and his role as patron of commerce. [ 7 ]
Originally, Hermes was depicted as an older, bearded, phallic god, but in the late 4th century BCE, the traditional Hermes was reimagined as an athletic youth ( illustration, top right ). Statues of the new type of Hermes stood at stadiums and
gymnasiums
throughout Greece.
Hermai/Herms
Main article:
Herma
In Ancient Greece, Hermes was a phallic god of boundaries. His name, in the form
herma ,
was applied to a wayside marker pile of stones; each traveller added a stone to the pile. In the 6th century BCE,
Hipparchos , the son of
Pisistratus , replaced the
cairns
that marked the midway point between each village
deme
at the central
agora
of Athens with a square or rectangular pillar of stone or bronze topped by a bust of Hermes with a
beard . An erect
phallus
rose from the base. In the more primitive
Mount Kyllini
or
Cyllenian herms , the standing stone or wooden pillar was simply a carved phallus. In Athens, herms were placed outside houses for good luck. "That a monument of this kind could be transformed into an
Olympian
god is astounding,"
Walter Burkert
remarked (Burkert 1985).
In
415 BCE , when the Athenian fleet was about to set sail for
Syracuse
during the
Peloponnesian War , all of the Athenian hermai were vandalized. The Athenians at the time believed it was the work of saboteurs, either from Syracuse or from the anti-war faction within Athens itself.
Socrates ' pupil
Alcibiades
was suspected to have been involved, and Socrates indirectly paid for the impiety with his life.
From these origins,
hermai
moved into the repertory of Classical architecture.
Hermes' iconography
Hermes was usually portrayed wearing a broad-brimmed traveler's hat or a winged cap ( petasus ), wearing winged sandals ( talaria ), and carrying his Near Eastern herald's staff -- either a
caduceus
entwined by
serpents , or a
kerykeion
topped with a symbol similar to the
astrological
symbol of
Taurus
the bull. Hermes wore the garments of a traveler, worker, or shepherd. He was represented by purses or bags, roosters ( illustration, left ), and tortoises. When depicted as
Hermes Logios , he was the divine symbol of eloquence, generally shown speaking with one arm raised for emphasis.
Birth
Hermes was born on
Mount Cyllene
in
Arcadia
to
Maia . As the story is told in the
Homeric Hymn , the
Hymn to Hermes,
Maia
was a
nymph , but Greeks generally applied the name to a midwife or a wise and gentle old woman; so the nymph appears to have been an ancient one, or more probably a goddess. At any rate, she was one of the
Pleiades , daughters of Atlas, taking refuge in a cave of Mount Cyllene in Arcadia. They were discovered by the local king,
Acacus , who raised Hermes as his foster son.
The infant Hermes was precocious. His first day he invented the
lyre . By nightfall, he had rustled the immortal cattle of Apollo. For the first sacrifice, the taboos surrounding the sacred
kine
of Apollo had to be transgressed, and the trickster god of boundaries was the one to do it.
Hermes drove the cattle back to Greece and hid them, and covered their tracks. When Apollo accused Hermes, Maia said that it could not be him because he was with her the whole night. However, Zeus entered the argument and said that Hermes did steal the cattle and they should be returned. While arguing with Apollo, Hermes began to play his
lyre . The instrument enchanted Apollo and he agreed to let Hermes keep the cattle in exchange for the lyre.
Hermes' offspring
Pan
The
satyr -like Greek god of nature, shepherds and flocks,
Pan
was often said to be the son of Hermes through the nymph
Dryope . In the
Homeric Hymn
to Pan, Pan's mother ran away from the newborn god in fright from his goat-like appearance.
Hermaphroditus
Hermaphroditus
was an immortal son of Hermes through
Aphrodite . He was changed into an
intersex
person when the gods literally granted the nymph
Salmacis ' wish that they never separate.
Priapus
The god
Priapus
was a son of Hermes and Aphrodite. In Priapus, Hermes' phallic origins survived. According to other sources, Priapus was a son of Dionysus and Aphrodite
Eros
According to some sources, the mischievous winged god of love
Eros , son of Aphrodite, was sired by Hermes, though the gods
Ares
and
Hephaestus
were also among those said to be the sire, whereas in the
Theogeny ,
Hesiod
claims that Eros was born of nothing before the Gods. Eros' Roman name was
Cupid .
Tyche
The goddess of
prosperity ,
Tyche
( Greek
Τύχη ), or
Fortuna , was sometimes said to be the daughter of Hermes and Aphrodite.
Abderus
Abderus
was a son of Hermes who was devoured by the
Mares of Diomedes . He had gone to the Mares with his friend
Heracles .
Autolycus
Autolycus , the Prince of Thieves, was a son of Hermes and grandfather of
Odysseus .
List of Hermes' consorts and children
Hermes with
petasus ,
talaria
and
caduceus :
Mercury fastening his sandals , by
François Rude , ( Musée du Louvre )
Aglaurus
Athenian priestess
Eumolpus
warlord
Antianeira
Malian princess
Echion
Argonaut
Apemosyne
Cretan princess Aphrodite
Eros
(in one tradition) Hermaphroditus Peitho Priapus
(in some traditions) Rhodos Tyche
Carmentis
Arcadian nymph
Evander
founder of Latium
Chione
Phocian princess
Autolycus
thief
Dryope
Arcadian nymph
Pan
rustic god
Eupolomia Phthian princess
Aethalides
Argonaut herald
Herse
Athenian priestess
Cephalus
hunter (Also
Ceryx )
Crocus
who died and became the crocus flower Pandrosus
Athenian priestess
Ceryx
Eleusinian herald
Peitho
("Persuasion" his wife according to
Nonnos ) Penelope
Arcadian nymph (or wife of Odysseus)
Pan
(according to one tradition)
Persephone
(according to one tradition) Polymele
(daughter of Phylas according to Iliad)
Eudorus
(myrmidon; soldier in Trojan War)
Sicilian
nymph
Daphnis
rustic poet
Theobula Eleian princess
Myrtilus
charioteer
Born of the urine of Hermes, Poseidon and Zeus
Orion
giant hunter (in one tradition)
Unknown mothers
Abderus
s
Diposkan oleh
FUTURE
di
04.13
Tidak ada komentar:
Hermes
Hermes
( Greek ,
Ἑρμῆς ,
IPA :
/ˈhɝmiːz/ ) is the messenger of the gods in
Greek mythology . An
Olympian god , he is also the patron of boundaries and of the travelers who cross them, of
shepherds
and
cowherds , of thieves and road travelers, of orators and wit, of literature and poets, of athletics, of weights and measures, of invention, of general commerce, and of the cunning of thieves and liars. [ 1 ]
His symbols include the tortoise, the rooster, the winged sandals, and the
caduceus . The analogous Roman deity is
Mercury .
The
Homeric hymn
to Hermes invokes him as the one "of many shifts ( polytropos ), blandly cunning, a robber, a cattle driver, a bringer of dreams, a watcher by night, a thief at the gates, one who was soon to show forth wonderful deeds among the deathless gods. Roles
Lee Lawrie ,
Hermes
(1939). Library of Congress
John Adams Building , Washington, D.C.
Giambologna 's
Mercury
in fountain of the Alameda Central,
Mexico City .
He protects and takes care of all the travelers, miscreants, harlots, old crones and thieves that pray to him or cross his path. He is the messenger of the gods and does his job very well. He is athletic and is always looking out for runners, or any athletes with injuries who need his help. Hermes is a messenger from the gods to humans, sharing this role with
Iris . An interpreter who bridges the boundaries with strangers is a
hermeneus.
Hermes gives us our word " hermeneutics " for the art of interpreting hidden meaning. In Greek a lucky find was a
hermaion . Hermes delivered messages from Olympus to the mortal world. He wears shoes with wings on them and uses them to fly freely between the mortal and immortal world. Hermes, younger than Apollo, was the youngest of the
Olympian gods .
Hermes, as an inventor of fire, [ 3 ]
is a parallel of the
Titan ,
Prometheus . In addition to the
syrinx
and the
lyre , Hermes was believed to have invented many types of racing and the sport of
wrestling , and therefore was a patron of athletes. [ 4 ]
According to prominent
folklorist
Meletinskii , Hermes is a
deified
trickster . [ 5 ]
Hermes also served as a
psychopomp , or an escort for the dead to help them find their way to the
afterlife
(the
Underworld
in the Greek myths). In many Greek myths, Hermes was depicted as the only god besides
Hades ,
Persephone , and
Hekate
who could enter and leave the Underworld without hindrance.
Along with escorting the dead, Hermes often helped travelers have a safe and easy journey. Many Greeks would sacrifice to Hermes before any trip.
In the fully-developed Olympian pantheon, Hermes was the son of
Zeus
and the
Pleiade
Maia , a daughter of the Titan
Atlas . Hermes' symbols were the
rooster
and the
tortoise , and he can be recognized by his purse or pouch, winged sandals, winged cap, and the herald's staff, the
kerykeion . Hermes was the god of thieves because he was very cunning and shrewd and was a thief himself from the night he was born, when he slipped away from Maia and ran away to steal his elder brother
Apollo 's cattle.
In the Roman adaptation of the Greek religion (see
interpretatio romana ), Hermes was identified with the Roman god
Mercury , who, though inherited from the
Etruscans , developed many similar characteristics, such as being the patron of commerce.
Diposkan oleh
FUTURE
di
04.12
Tidak ada komentar:
Rabu, 31 Desember 2008
MARCURIUS
In Roman mythology
Mercury
is the god of commerce, travel and thievery, the Roman counterpart of the Greek god
Hermes , the messenger of the Gods. The planet probably received this name because it moves so quickly across the sky. Mercury has been known since at least the time of the Sumerians (3rd millennium BC). It was sometimes given separate names for its apparitions as a morning star and as an evening star. Greek astronomers knew, however, that the two names referred to the same body. Heraclitus even believed that Mercury and Venus orbit the Sun, not the Earth. Since it is closer to the Sun than the Earth, the illumination of Mercury's disk varies when viewed with a telescope from our perspective.
Galileo 's telescope was too small to see Mercury's phases but he did see the phases of
Venus . Mercury has been now been visited by two spacecraft,
Mariner 10
and
MESSENGER . Marriner 10 flew by three times in 1974 and 1975. Only 45% of the surface was mapped (and, unfortunately, it is too close to the Sun to be safely imaged by
HST ).
MESSENGER
was launched by NASA in 2004 and will orbit Mercury starting in 2011 after several flybys. Its first flyby in Jan 2008 provided new high quality
images
of some of the terrain not seen by Marriner 10. Mercury's orbit
is highly
eccentric ; at
perihelion
it is only 46 million km from the Sun but at
aphelion
it is 70 million. The position of the perihelion precesses around the Sun at a very slow rate. 19th century astronomers made very careful observations of Mercury's orbital parameters but could not adequately explain them using
Newtonian
mechanics. The tiny differences between the observed and predicted values were a minor but nagging problem for many decades. It was thought that another planet (sometimes called
Vulcan ) slightly closer to the Sun than Mercury might account for the discrepancy. But despite much effort, no such planet was found. The real answer turned out to be much more dramatic:
Einstein 's
General Theory of Relativity ! Its correct prediction of the motions of Mercury was an important factor in the early acceptance of the theory. Until 1962 it was thought that Mercury's "day" was the same length as its "year" so as to keep that same face to the Sun much as the Moon does to the Earth. But this was shown to be false in 1965 by doppler radar observations. It is now known that Mercury rotates three times in two of its years. Mercury is the only body in the solar system known to have an orbital/rotational
resonance
with a ratio other than 1:1 (though many have no resonances at all). This fact and the high eccentricity of Mercury's orbit would produce very strange effects for an observer on Mercury's surface. At some longitudes the observer would see the Sun rise and then gradually increase in apparent size as it slowly moved toward the zenith. At that point the Sun would stop, briefly reverse course, and stop again before resuming its path toward the horizon and decreasing in apparent size. All the while the stars would be moving three times faster across the sky. Observers at other points on Mercury's surface would see different but equally bizarre motions. Temperature variations on Mercury are the most extreme in the solar system ranging from 90 K to 700 K. The temperature on
Venus
is slightly hotter but very stable. Mercury craters Mercury is in many ways similar to the
Moon : its surface is heavily cratered and very
old ; it has no
plate tectonics . On the other hand, Mercury is much denser than the Moon (5.43 gm/cm3 vs 3.34). Mercury is the second
densest
major body in the solar system, after
Earth . Actually Earth's density is due in part to gravitational compression; if not for this, Mercury would be denser than Earth. This indicates that Mercury's dense iron core is relatively larger than Earth's, probably comprising the majority of the planet. Mercury therefore has only a relatively thin
silicate
mantle and crust. Mercury's interior is dominated by a large iron core whose radius is 1800 to 1900 km. The silicate outer shell (analogous to Earth's mantle and crust) is only 500 to 600 km thick. At least some of the core is probably molten. Mercury actually has a very thin atmosphere consisting of atoms blasted off its surface by the
solar wind . Because Mercury is so hot, these atoms quickly escape into space. Thus in contrast to the Earth and Venus whose atmospheres are stable, Mercury's atmosphere is constantly being replenished. Southwest Mercury The surface of Mercury exhibits enormous escarpments, some up to hundreds of kilometers in length and as much as three kilometers high. Some cut thru the rings of craters and other features in such a way as to indicate that they were formed by compression. It is estimated that the surface area of Mercury shrank by about 0.1% (or a decrease of about 1 km in the planet's radius). Caloris Basin One of the largest features on Mercury's surface is the Caloris Basin (right); it is about 1300 km in diameter. It is thought to be similar to the large basins (maria) on the
Moon . Like the lunar basins, it was probably caused by a very large impact early in the history of the solar system. Weird terrain opposite Caloris Basin That impact was probably also responsible for the odd terrain on the exact opposite side of the planet (left). In addition to the heavily cratered terrain, Mercury also has regions of relatively smooth plains. Some may be the result of ancient volcanic activity but some may be the result of the deposition of ejecta from cratering impacts. A
reanalysis
of the Mariner data provides some preliminary evidence of recent volcanism on Mercury. But more data will be needed for confirmation. Amazingly, radar observations of Mercury's north pole (a region not mapped by Mariner 10) show evidence of water ice in the protected shadows of some craters. Mercury has a small magnetic field whose strength is about 1% of Earth's. Mercury has no known satellites. Mercury is often
visible
with binoculars or even the unaided eye, but it is always very near the Sun and difficult to see in the twilight sky. There are several
Web sites
that show the current position of Mercury (and the other planets) in the sky. More detailed and customized charts can be created with a
planetarium program .
Diposkan oleh
FUTURE
di
02.57
Tidak ada komentar:
Beranda
Langganan:
Entri (Atom)
Arsip Blog
▼
2009
(2)
▼
Januari
(2)
Cult
Hermes
►
2008
(1)
►
Desember
(1)
Mengenai Saya
FUTURE
Lihat profil lengkapku
Pengikut