Do YOU really know the meaning of 1=ONE=satu?1Islam,1Malaysia,1Isreal,1World,1Utama,etc..How “1” is affecting or reflecting in your life… | Pramleeelvis's Blog
Home About Ramli Abu Hassan
Pramleeelvis's Blog
"Just Telling the World What's Happening in Our Own Ways."
Stay updated via RSS
Email Subscription
Enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Join 142 other followers
Blogroll
all about mpc
all about Ramli's Profile
american society of quality
baidu
bling
delicious
digg
friendster
google
hotmail
Juran Institute
linkedin
malaysia productivity corporation
malaysia's school of govt
myAOL
plaxo
pramleeelvis's channel
RAMLI ABU HASSAN
ramli abu hassan photo bank
ramli and dps infos
Ramli on Facebook
star newspaper
the star online
twitter
utusan malaysia
WordPress.com
WordPress.org
world's best quality organisation
xing
yigg
all about Ramli's World on the Net 1 ASEAN 1 People
all about blogs
all about dps training and consultancy business
All about Islam
All about Malaysia
all about music
All about Personal Excellence
all about QCDSME+I
All about Ramli
all about ramli's writings
all about talents
business
corporate university
entertainment
family
govt of malaysia
KIK@KMK ICC@QCC MQT Teams
Leadership
money
people
places on earth
politics
quality of life
revolusi aksi
rich and famous
Sports
TECHNOLOGY
Uncategorized
wealth and financial freedom
world class performance
Ramli’s Photo Bank
remember the past to be better
May 2015
April 2015
March 2015
January 2015
December 2014
November 2014
October 2014
September 2014
June 2014
May 2014
April 2014
March 2014
February 2014
January 2014
December 2013
November 2013
October 2013
September 2013
August 2013
July 2013
June 2013
May 2013
April 2013
March 2013
February 2013
January 2013
December 2012
November 2012
October 2012
September 2012
August 2012
July 2012
June 2012
May 2012
April 2012
March 2012
February 2012
January 2012
December 2011
November 2011
October 2011
September 2011
August 2011
July 2011
June 2011
May 2011
April 2011
March 2011
February 2011
January 2011
December 2010
November 2010
October 2010
September 2010
August 2010
July 2010
June 2010
May 2010
April 2010
March 2010
February 2010
January 2010
December 2009
November 2009
October 2009
September 2009
August 2009
July 2009
June 2009
May 2009
February 2009
January 2009
Categories
1 ASEAN 1 People
13 MGE
13MGE
3AIG
3AIG-GPLF-SCAM
airlines
akhirat
al-quran
all about blogs
all about dps training and consultancy business
all about energy management systems
All about Islam
all about languages
All about Malaysia
all about music
All about Personal Excellence
all about pramleeelvis
all about QCDSME+I
All about Ramli
all about ramli's writings
all about talents
all the facts and myths of life
all the photographs
all the videos
animals
antiques
armed forces
asean
ASQ
bahasa melayu
banking
billionaires
blogs
book publishing
books
branding-sponsorships
budget
business
cars
converts -muaalaf
corporate university
cost of living
countries and capitals of the world
creativity & inovation
CSR
culture
CWQC
dialysis world
dps & rahtc client list
DPS Trading House-all the pdcts & services
economy
employment
entertainment
entrepreneur
ETP
event management
events around the world
facebook
family
famous people
fashion
festivals
financials
flora and fauna
food
food and drink
FOREX
friends
gambling (gaming)
global population
Going Green
gold mining
govt
govt of malaysia
GPLF
grants
green business
green economy
green growth
green life
green technology
GTP n ETP
gurus
halal
handicapped
happy workplace
health
hibah
human body
human talent
ICQCC
iks
inovation and creativity
internet
islam
jawi
jeritan rakyat section
jewish conspiracy
jews-yahudi
KIK@KMK ICC@QCC MQT Teams
land owners
Leadership
lean mgmt
learning
living in the world
malay rights
malays
malaysia
malaysia general elections
mamak
marriages
MAS
matsushita
medical
melayu
memorablias
military power
money
Muhammad pbuh
mystery
natural disasters
news network
old age
olympics
palm oil
parenting
pay per view
people
people power
philanthropy
philantrophy
photography and videography
places on earth
planes
politics
polygamy
problem solving
prophet muhammad pbuh
prophets of Islam
PSR
public transport system
qc tools
quality company
quality of life
quality quotes
quality vs innovation
RAHTC training
RAMLI ABU HASSAN TRAINING & CONSULTANCY
ramli abu hassan training and consultancy
ramli's photo library/bank
Rasulullah SAW
renewable energy
retirement
revolusi aksi
riba-usury
rich and famous
safety and security
schools
science
scientists
score a programme
security
sedeqah
self defense
sex
sme
smk
SOCIAL MEDIA
space
Sports
srk
stock and shares
story of kings and queens
Sunnah Rasulullah SAW
sustainable livelihood
sustainable mgmt
syurga-jannah-heaven
teaching and teachers
TECHNOLOGY
television bradcast
the internet bzns
the qcd factor
the right way of living well
third industrial revolution
time
time zones
Top 40 Lists
top malaysian companies
total quality
TQC
TQM
trading-RTH
trains
tudung – hijab
ulama ulama tersohor
Uncategorized
universal values
universities
warna-colors
water supply
wealth and financial freedom
weapons
women
works of art
world class performance
world of jinn
world trade
Z
zakat
ZD
zero defect
just type what you want
YOU
YOU
Do YOU really know the meaning of 1=ONE=satu?1Islam,1Malaysia,1Isreal,1World,1Utama,etc..How “1” is affecting or reflecting in your life…
Posted: March 26, 2010 in
all about blogs ,
All about Islam ,
All about Malaysia ,
all about ramli's writings ,
Uncategorized
Tags:
1 ,
1 isreal ,
1 people 2 countries ,
1 world ,
1malaysia ,
all about one ,
dr.mahathir ,
ramli abu hassan
0
As a Muslim inherited since birth,Ramli solemnly pledged again and again everyday especially in his prayers that “there is only one GOD and that is Allah SWT and Muhammad pbuh is the Messenger of Allah SWT.” Allah SWT is the Greatest and in the Sura Al-Ikhlas or Purity (of Faith) as stated:
Sura Ikhlas (112:1-4 verses):
In the name of God,Most Gracious,Most Merciful
1.”Say:He is GOD,The One and Only;
2.God,the Eternal,Absolute;
3.He begetteth not,Nor is He begotten;
4.And there is none,Like unto HIM.
In Islam since Prophet Adam as to the last Prophet Muhammad pbuh,all Muslims know that there is only ONE God and that is Allah SWT.There are reportedly about 313,000 prophets and Prophet Muhammad is the Greatest of All Prophets in the history of Mankind.
However in Islam,there are now 4 major sects(ahli sunnah) that comprised the ONE only Ahli Sunnah Wal Jemaah which constitute the Mahzab Shafie,Mahzab Hanafi,Mahzab Hambali and Mahzab Maliki.Although there are many other groups in Islam almost 73 of them but only the 1 ie.Ahli Sunnah Wal Jemaah constitute the righteous way and the rest have deviated and misinterpret Islam very much and must not be followed or practised.
The Leaders of the Ahli Sunnah Wal Jemaah have all agreed to disagree in certain aspects of the Islamic rituals but ALL have agreed that there is only ONE Islam and that all Muslims must pray to Allah SWT only and Prophet Muhammad pbuh and all his Sahabats,Tabiin and Tabiin Tabiin are all to be respected,followed and continue their righteous teachings to all Muslims till the end of time (Kiamat)
In this modern interpretation of the world,if we look at our compass,the dial that points to the NORTH points in one direction only  as also that points to the South,East,West and other directions.We need to be focus as where we are going to go and that need clear leadership and instructions.We cannot have 2 fathers at the same time since only ONE Father lead the whole family same as a Prime Minister or President of a country!We also need 1 captain of a ship or aeroplane to fly us from point to point and all the rest are assistants or advisers.
Ramli heard YAB Tun Dr.Mahathir speech before that “Malaysia have advisors like the British Advisors before but it is still the right of the Rulers or PM whether he wants to listen to the advisors or not,that is his right as a Leader!”If not then he is not a Leader or Ruler if the Advisors have made that decision for him instead!
What is important here is that a Leader must be the ONE that leads but nowadays he have a TEAM of people that he/she can depend on before making the final decision.Having a Leader with Wisdom,Experience,Honest,Humility,Caring,Brave, etc..is not easy at all!Thats the Great Challenge to all nations.
Ramli remember his Batu Road Primary School in Kuala Lumpur  motto ie.All for One and One for All.
Number One is also very synonymous with Ramli since Ramli birthday is 1-11-1956.How about YOU?
Like in Malaysia they say,Fikir2 dan Renung2……
Important Note:
Ramli Abu Hassan is available for your training needs,consultancy work and speaking programmes.Ramli can share his knowledge on areas like Revolusi Aksi (Action Revolution),World Class Performance,Corporate Universities for your company’s talent development,TQM is (still) the 21st Century Business Philosophy,QCDSME+i factors for Business Excellence,Teamwork like MQT,QCC@ICC,KMK@KIK and special subjects (to be discussed with Clients)
Contact Ramli at hp:+6-019-2537165 and email: ramlipromoter@yahoo.com
More reading on all about ONE…..(we must get the facts and datas right thats quality management..)
One (word)
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
One
is a common word in the
English language . It can mean either the
number 1
or be used as a pronoun.
Etymology
The Old English
án
is in
Old Frisian
ân,
ên,
Old Saxon
ên
(Middle Dutch, Dutch
een ), Old High German (Middle High German, German)
ein,
Old Norse
einn :– ein-r
(Danish
een,
Sw.
en ), Gothic
ain-s :–Old Teutonic
*ain-oz :–pre-Teutonic
*oinos
= Latin
ūnus
(Old Latin
oinos ); Old Irish
óen,
Old Slavic
inu,
Lithuanian
venas
one; cf. Greek
oἶνoς, oἴνη ,
ace. Old English
án
became in regular course in south and midland dialect
on,
exemplified before 1200. By the 15th century,
on,
oon,
in southwest and west, had developed (through
on,
uon,
uön,
won,
wun ) an initial
w
(cf. the southwest
wuk,
wuts
=
oak,
oats ), which only occasionally appears in the spelling, but is now the standard pronunciation. The first orthoepist to refer to it was apparently Jones 1701: earlier grammarians, down to Christopher Cooper, 1685, give to
one
the sound that it has in
alone,
atone,
and
only ;
Thomas Dyche
in 1710 has
/ˈɒn/
beside /ˈwɒn/. In the north,
ān
was retained in Middle English; but through the narrowing of the originally long
ā
to [æː], [ɛː], [eː], [ɛə], [ɪə],
ân
has sunk in dialectal utterance through
ane,
to
eane,
eän,
yan,
yen,
the development of /ˈjɛn/ in the north being the counterpart of that of /ˈwʌn/ in the south. In Old English,
án
had the full adjective inflexions, definite and indefinite, remains of which persisted in the south to ca. 1300, and in Kent still later; but, in north and midland England, the uninflected
ān,
ōn,
with the definite form
āne,
ōne
(Old English
ána,
áne ), is found in the accusative and dative, as well as the nominative by 1200. Already also,
ān,
ōn
were reduced before a consonant to
ā,
ō
( oo ), which did not die out till the 16th century.
In the north the separation of
ân
and
â
was more permanent; at the present day in Scots the full form
ane,
eane,
etc., is only used absolutely or in the
predicate ,
ae,
eae,
is the attributive form before consonants and vowels alike:
ae day,
ae yeir,
we hae ane ; so in north English dialects with
yà
and
yàn . From the early
an,
a,
pronounced proclitically without stress, arose the “indefinite article”
an, a . In the northern dialect the numeral and article were long written alike, the stress or emphasis alone distinguishing them; in 16th century Scots both were written
ane . By more or less permanent coalescence of a preceding
thet,
the collocations
thet ane,
thet one,
thet a,
thet o,
became
the tane,
the tone,
the ta,
the to .
1Malaysia
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
1Malaysia
is an on-going campaign announced by Malaysian Prime Minister
Najib Tun Razak
on
September 16 ,
2008 , calling for the cabinet, government agencies, and civil servants to more strongly emphasize ethnic harmony, national unity, and efficient governance. [1]
Ideology
1Malaysia strongly emphasizes national unity, ethnic tolerance, and government efficiency. The eight values of 1Malaysia as articulated by Najib Razak are perseverance, a culture of excellence, acceptance, loyalty, education, humility, integrity, and meritocracy. [2]
Public Policy
Improving government efficiency is an important aspect of 1Malaysia. The use of Key Performance Indicators (KPIs), metrics and targets more typically used in private business, and National Key Result Areas (NKRAs) is thus naturally an important part of the 1Malaysia effort.Najib says, “The government is committed to carrying out a transformation programme as its main agenda based on approaches and philosophy of 1Malaysia — people first, performance now.” [3]
Immediately after assuming the office of Prime Minister of Malaysia Dato Ser Najib Tun Razak introduced a series of KPIs in order to measure and improve the efficiency and quality of government services as well as realizing the 1Malaysia concept. Najib said that KPIs were implemented to ensure “the people’s satisfaction…whether they are satisfied with our service, whether we have solved their problems.”
[4]
Najib’s announcement of the KPI effort was generally well-received. Deputy Prime Minister Tan Sri Muhyiddin Yassin said the KPI formula was a yardstick against which the people could measure the performance of Najib and the government. He said the KPIs would provide motivation for every minister to perform well. [5]
The KPIs provide a mechanism for the evaluation of ministries and other government agencies including performance reviews carried out every six months. Each ministry has been required to establish specific KPIs including that focus on policy outcomes over the traditional emphasis on inputs typically found in government performance assessments and planning. KPIs include detailed job descriptions and goals for ministers, deputy ministers, and some other senior government officials. [6]
Najib has identified six major policy areas in which KPIs will play an especially important role in improving the effectiveness of the Malaysian government. These are known as National Key Result Areas (NKRAs). The NKRAs include crime prevention, reducing government corruption, increased access to quality education, improvements in the standard of living for low income groups, upgrades to rural infrastructure, and improvements in public transportation. [7]
Najib also introduced a new cabinet position to support the Unity and Performance Minister in implementing the KPI system. Idris Jala, the former CEO of Malaysia Airlines, was appointed Minister Without a Portfolio and CEO of Performance Management and Delivery Unit (Pemandu), to work with Dr. Koh Tsu Koon in training over 500 government officers to implement the KPI system. As CEO of Pemandu Idris will support the work of Koh, who is the minister in charge of National Unity and Performance Management. [8]
Website and Social Media
1Malaysia.com.my has been created in order to facilitate the 1Malaysia campaign by providing a platform for public dialogue that Prime Minister Razak claims will promote Malaysian unity, religious and ethnic tolerance, as well as a deeper appreciation of Malaysia’s cultural diversity. 1Malaysia is also making extensive use of social media tools such as Facebook and Twitter. [9] [10]
Activities
The 1Malaysia concept is being promoted through a wide range of activities.
Prime Minister Najib has instructed the
National Civics Bureau
or
Biro Tata Negara
(BTN) to use its courses and seminars to educate present and future civil servants, politicians, and community leaders about 1Malaysia and promote national unity. Deputy Prime Minister Ahmad stated, “We will ensure that the BTN courses also inculcate the 1Malaysia concept and its eight values, namely high performance culture, accuracy, knowledge, innovation, integrity, strong will, loyalty and wisdom.”
[11]
Radio Television Malaysia
(RTM) and private television channels have incorporated ideas from 1Malaysia into numerous TV programs. The use of multi-lingual hosts and actors from different ethnicities is one of the methods uses to promote national unity.
[12]
1Malaysia Foundation
The 1Malaysia Foundation (Y1M) Foundation was established in 2009 to promote and develop the idea of 1Malaysia. Y1M works to coordinate and supplement government and private-sector activities related to 1Malaysia. Chairman of the Y1M Board of Trustees, Dr Chandra Muzaffar said, “Y1M is planning to expand and strengthen the commitment from all Malaysians towards national unity through various activities to increase public awareness and community development.” [13]
1Malaysia clinics
Prime Minister Najib’s Budget 2010 includes funding for 50 medical clinics to provide basic medical services for illnesses and injuries such as fever, cough, colds, wounds and cuts, diabetes, and hypertension. Malaysia citizens are charged RM1 for treatment and medication. Non-citizens are charged RM15.
[14]
References
^
{National Unity Ultimate Objective Of 1Malaysia, Says Najib,
http://www.bernama.com/bernama/v3/news_lite.php?id=418020 ]
^
[1]
^
[All the facts on NKRA, 1Malaysia out this week, Lydia Gomez and Ili Liyana Mokhtar, NST, 14 December 2009]
^
[Press Release, Prime Minster’s Office,
http://www.pmo.gov.my/?menu=newslist&news_id=58&page=1731&news_cat=13 ]
^
[Najib Sets The Pace For Transformation In Administration, by Sophia Ahmad, Bernama, December 11th, 2009]
^
[Press Release, Prime Minster’s Office,
http://www.pmo.gov.my/?menu=newslist&news_id=58&page=1731&news_cat=13 ]
^
[KPIs to measure PS performance, PSnews,
http://www.psnews.com.au/worldpsn1852.html ]
^
[Najib makes Idris Jala minister to run KPIs unit, The Malaysian Insider,
http://my-1.themalaysianinsider.com/index.php/malaysia/36173-najib-makes-idris-jala-minister-to-run-kpis-unit- ]
^
[2]
^
[3]
^
[“PM Wants BTN To Intensify 1Malaysia Concept In Its Modules”, Bernama, 15 December 2009]
^
[“1Malaysia Concept In Local Drama Series”, Bernama, 14 December 2009]
^
[“1Malaysia Foundation To Realise 1Malaysia Concept”, Bernama, 14 July 2009]
^
[Only 1RM treatment charge for common illnesses, The Star, 8 January 2010]
One Israel
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
One Israel
( Hebrew : ישראל אחת‎,
Yisrael Ahat ) was an alliance of the
Labor Party ,
Meimad
and
Gesher
created to run for the
1999 Knesset elections .
Background
One Israel was formed by Labor leader
Ehud Barak
in the run-up to the 1999 elections with the aim of making Labor appear more centrist and to reduce its secularist and elitist reputation amongst
Mizrahi
voters (Gesher was led by prominent Mizrahi politician and former
Likud
MK
David Levy
whilst Meimad is a religious party) modelled on
Tony Blair ‘s transformation of the British
Labour Party
into
New Labour . [1]
The coalition agreement gave Gesher the number three spot on the list (behind Barak and
Shimon Peres ), two other safe positions and a promise that Levy would get a ministerial position. Meimad were promised one safe spot on the list and a ministerial position for a member who did not make it into the Knesset.
In the run-up to the election, surveys predicted the party would win 33 seats. However, although One Israel did emerge as the largest faction in the Knesset, its 26 seats was the lowest ever by a winning party (Labor’s 34 in the
1996 elections
whilst running alone had been the previous low). Of the 26 seats, Labor took 22, Gesher 3 and Meimad one. As per the pre-election agreement, Levy was appointed Deputy Prime Minister and
Minister of Foreign Affairs
and Meimad’s
Michael Melchior
was made Minister of Social and Diaspora Affairs.
Barak, who had beaten
Binyamin Netanyahu
in the
election for Prime Minister , had to form an unstable coalition government with six other parties:
Shas ,
Meretz ,
Yisrael BaAliyah , the
Centre Party , the
National Religious Party
and
United Torah Judaism .
Barak’s participation in the
Camp David Summit
with
Yasser Arafat
in summer 2000 led to Gesher pulling out of the alliance on 7 March 2001. On 7 May the alliance was joined by the single member
New Way
faction, but on 15 May 2001 it ceased to exist, as the parliamentary group was renamed Labor-Meimad.
After the party’s collapse, Barak was investigated following allegations that the One Israel had broken the party funding law by allowing money from abroad to be directed into campaign funds through non-profit groups in order to get around spending limits.
State Comptroller
Eliezer Goldberg had already fined the party 13 million shekels for breaking fund-raising laws. [2]
It later became known as the “Barak Organisation Affair”.
References
^
Barak’s ‘One Israel’
The Review , April 1999
^
Barak party faces criminal probe
BBC News, 27 January 2000
Korean reunification (one people two countries)
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Korean reunification
( Korean : 조국통일, also called 남북통일 (in the South, literally
South-North Reunification ) and 북남통일 (in the North, literally
North-South Reunification )) refers to the hypothetical future reunification of
North Korea
and
South Korea
under a single government. The process towards this was started by the historic
June 15th North-South Joint Declaration
in August 2000, where the two countries agreed to work towards a peaceful reunification in the future.
However, there are a number of hurdles in this process due to the large political and economic differences between the two countries and other state actors such as China, Russia, the United States and Japan. Short-term problems such as a large number of
refugees
from the North migrating into the South and initial economic and political instability would need to be overcome. Long-term problems such as cultural differences, contrasting political ideologies and possible discrimination will also need to be resolved.
Japan
annexed Korea
in 1910 and ruled over it until 1945. After Japan’s defeat in
World War II , the
United Nations
developed plans for trusteeship administration of Korea.
The
38th parallel
divided the peninsula into two zones of administration: the
Soviet Union
to the north and the
United States
to the south.
Cold War
politics resulted in the 1948 establishment of two separate governments. In June 1950, North Korea invaded South Korea, beginning the
Korean War . After three devastating years of fighting that involved the
People’s Republic of China , the Soviet Union, and the
United Nations
led by the U.S., the war ended in a ceasefire agreement at approximately the same boundary, with South Korea making slight territorial gains. The two countries never signed a peace treaty.
Despite now being politically separate entities, both governments proclaim as a goal the eventual restoration of Korea as a single state. A unified Korea is a very important component of Korean national identity. A unified Korean team marched in the opening ceremonies of the
2000 Summer Olympics
in
Sydney ,
2004 Summer Olympics
in
Athens , and the
2006 Winter Olympics
in
Turin , but the North and South Korean national teams competed separately. There were plans for a truly unified team at the
2008 Summer Olympics
in
Beijing ,
China , but they were unable to agree on the details of its implementation. In the 1991
table tennis
world championships in
Chiba ,
Japan , the two countries formed a unified team.
Current status
Some political analysts and many Koreans would say the process of reunification has already begun, [1]
albeit at a very gradual pace, through the current process of reconciliation and economic cooperation between the two Koreas. However, the
Korean Demilitarized Zone
that separates the two Koreas remains heavily guarded.
Summits and General Assembly meetings
Following a summit meeting in Pyongyang from 13 to 15 June 2000 between the leaders of the two countries, the chairpersons of the
Millennium Summit
issued a statement welcoming their Joint Declaration as a breakthrough in bringing peace, stability and reunification to the Korean peninsula. [2]
Seven weeks later a resolution to the same effect passed by the
United Nations General Assembly
after being co-sponsored by 150 other nations. [3]
A scheduled General Assembly debate on the topic in 2002 was deferred for a year at the request of both nations, [4]
and when the subject returned in 2003 it was immediately dropped off the agenda. [5]
The issue did not return to the General Assembly until 2007, [6]
following a second inter-Korean summit held in Pyongyang from 2 to 4 October 2007. These talks were held during one the round of the
Six-Party Talks
in Beijing which committed to the denuclearization of the Korean peninsula. [7]
Possible challenges
Economy
Seoul
is a major
global city , consistently placed among the world’s top ten
financial
and
commercial
cities. [8]
North Korea has a state-run
command economy
aspiring for
autarky
with a negligible market segment.
Economic differences between North and South Korea also are a cause of concern. Korean reunification would differ from the
German reunification
precedent:
In relative terms, North Korea’s economy is currently
worse than that of
East Germany
in 1990. The income per capita ratio ( PPP )
was about 3:1 in Germany (US$25,000 for West, about US$8,500 for East). [9] [10]
The ratio is about 15:1 in Korea
(US$27,100 for South, US$1,800 for North), [11]
although GDP estimates vary
widely ( see
List
of countries by GDP (PPP) per capita ). This income gap is rapidly
increasing as the North Korean economy stagnates and the South Korean
economy is characterized [ citation needed ]
by moderate to high economic growth.
While at the moment of the German reunification the
East German population (around 17,000,000) was about a third of the West
German (more than 60,000,000), the North Korean population (around
22,700,000) is currently around half of the South Korean (around
48,600,000).
The North Korean population is far more culturally
distinct and isolated than the
East German
population was in the late
1980s. Unlike in
East Germany ,
North Koreans generally cannot receive foreign broadcasting or read
foreign publications. In addition, the time period in which the two
countries have been divided is longer; Germany was divided for
44 years, whereas the Koreas have been divided for over 60, and have
been technically at war for most of that period.
Politics and ideology
Currently, political issues such as diametrically opposite forms of government cause most concern. Nevertheless, the attitude of the South Korean government towards
North Korea
has changed dramatically in the last few decades; during the
Park Chung-hee
administration, hatred towards the North Korean government was fostered in the civilian population. [ citation needed ]
In the North, the
Korean Central News Agency
often refers to the South Korean government as a “ puppet
government”. [12] [13]
In popular culture
The issue of Korean reunification was a central or implied theme in several productions, mostly South Korean:
The 2005 film
Cheon gun
(천군; 天軍) or “Heaven’s Soldiers”, directed by
Min Joon Gi , portrayed
North
and
South Korean
soldiers who
travel in time
to 1572 and join the 16th
century hero
Yi Sun-sin
in
fighting the
Jurchen tribes .
This theme clearly uses the figure of Yi, venerated as a National Hero in
both parts of contemporary Korea, to plead for reunification.
Yesterday
(예스터데이),
a 2002 action film set in 2020 in a unified Korea.
2009 Lost Memories , a 2002 film, the backstory of which had a reunified
Korea in the year 2008, in an alternative future where the Korean
peninsula is still part of the Japanese empire.
Shiri
(쉬리),
a 1999 action film in which the male lead describes how the waters from
both North and South Korea flow freely together, and how the fish called
Shiri
can be found in either water without knowing which it belongs to.
Shiri
was the first major-release film to directly address the issue of Korean
reunification.
The 2005 film
A
Bold Family
(Gan-keun gajok) was a comedy/drama that
portrayed a South Korean family who stages a reunification in an attempt
to be written into their dying father’s will. Directed by Myeong-nam Jo.
Tong-Il (통일 / 統一) is also the final pattern (Tul) in the ITF-style
Taekwon-Do syllabus performed by 6th Dan candidates testing for 7th Degree
Black Belt (Master). It is composed of 56 movements. Below is the official
pattern interpretation used by the 3 ITF organisations. Tong-il denotes
the resolution of the unification of Korea. The diagram symbolizes the
homogenous race. [ clarification
needed ]
The 2009 drama
Iris
dealt with a South Korean secret service agent who eventually becomes a
figure between a terrorist military organization opposing Korean
reunification and the South Korean President’s secret organization
promoting talks between Seoul and Pyongyang.
References
^
“Korea’s slow-motion reunification” .
Boston Globe . June 9, 2005.
http://www.boston.com/news/globe/editorial_opinion/oped/articles/2005/06/09/koreas_slow_motion_reunification/ . Retrieved 2007-08-13.
^
United Nations General Assembly
Verbotim Report
meeting 4 session 55
Statement by the Co-Chairpersons – Millennium Summit
page 1 on 6 September 2000
^
United Nations General Assembly
Verbotim Report
meeting 45 session 55
page 14 on 31 October 2000 (retrieved 2008-04-06)
^
United Nations General Assembly
Verbotim Report
meeting 111 session 56
page 2 on 6 September 2002 (retrieved 2008-04-06)
^
United Nations General Assembly
Verbotim Report
meeting 94 session 57
page 7 on 15 September 2003 (retrieved 2008-04-06)
^
United Nations General Assembly
Verbotim Report
meeting 41 session 62
Peace, security and reunification on the Korean peninsula
page 1 on 31 October 2007
^
United Nations General Assembly
Verbotim Report
meeting 41 session 62
page 1, Mr. Choi Young-jin
Republic of Korea
on 31 October 2007 (retrieved 2008-04-06)
^
http://www.citymayors.com/economics/financial-cities.html
^
http://web.lexis-nexis.com/universe/docum5a3&_md5=1d29c9a57e02af0c782e122762a6b939
^
Sliefer, Jaap. “Planning Ahead and Falling Behind. the East German Economy in Comparison with West Germany 1936–2002.” 13 Sept. 2007. International Conference of Labour and Social History. < http://www.ith.or.at/ith_e/kuczynski_prize_lectures_2007_e.htm >.
^
https://www.cia.gov/library/publications/the-world-factbook/rankorder/2004rank.html
^
http://www.kcna.co.jp/item/1997/9701/news1/26.htm
^
http://www.kcna.co.jp/item/2008/200807/news07/03.htm
Share this: Facebook Twitter Like this: Like
Loading...
Related
Leave a Reply
Cancel reply
Enter your comment here...
Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:
Email
(required)
(Address never made public)
Name
(required)
Website
You are commenting using your WordPress.com account.
(  Log Out  /  Change  )
You are commenting using your Twitter account.
(  Log Out  /  Change  )
You are commenting using your Facebook account.
(  Log Out  /  Change  )
You are commenting using your Google+ account.
(  Log Out  /  Change  )
Cancel
Connecting to %s
Notify me of new comments via email.
Ramli invite U again to join this 1malaysiasms.com -Be a Pioneer SMS Entrepreneur.Soft Launch on 5thApril,2010 at PWTC!Join Now,Follow the Instructions below…
The Future of Leadership Development by Kevin Wheeler-Ramli’s Friend from USA.
anything within 140
lnkd.in/bNb6aaF
lnkd.in/bhX7xQs
5 months ago
think positive jgn negative dan rugikan aset negara dan produktiviti bangsa!GST means God Say Thanks for your contributions of +6% and help 				 6 months ago
KIta pandai buat Maharaja Lawak so kita buat lah Maharaja Buat Duit dan GST hanya perkara biasa kerana kita dah mula ada duit dan bzns maju 				 6 months ago
if malaysia kurang atau takde duit so jika GST susah nak laksanakan kita perlu fikir cara baru tingkatkan ekonomi dan poket Rakyat?bagaimana 				 6 months ago
Ramli singing Sometimes When We Touch
youtu.be/znk9X7WD_DE
via @ YouTube
6 months ago
Mayweather reportedly will earn USD180M and Pacquiao maybe USD 130M all for 12 rounds of Boxing for about 36 minutes.Awesome!Who will win? 				 6 months ago
Wal-Mart Stores on the Fortune 500 2014 via @ FortuneMagazine
wp.me/p4kUAt-27QN
6 months ago
They all say Corruption or Rasuah is the biggest sickness in Malaysia but do they have the Doctors smart enough to cure the sickness? 				 6 months ago
as they say "there is enough for people in need but not enough for people in greed" who are the greedy people in Malaysia,you know? 				 6 months ago
As they say "tak kenal tak cinta" so knowing your Rakyat closely make u their favourite and vote for u anytime,anywhere and anyhow..try 				 6 months ago
Blog Stats
366,330 hits
Blog at WordPress.com . |
The Greyzed Theme .
Follow
Follow “Pramleeelvis's Blog”
Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.
Join 142 other followers
Build a website with WordPress.com
%d
bloggers like this: