Note to Japan: China Tourists Want to Soak - Japan Real Time - WSJ
WSJ
WSJ
Facebook
Twitter
MarketWatch
MarketWatch
Barrons
Barrons
Product X
Product X
djx
rt
f
r&c
pe&vc
wsj
b
The Shops
The Shops
More
New Portfolio
Big Charts
Virtual Stock Exchange
WSJ Asia
WSJ India
WSJ China
chinese edition
WSJ Japan
japanese edition
WSJ Europe
WSJ Americas
en Español
em Português
WSJ Radio
WSJ Wine
SEARCH
headline
gold man
Companies
GOLD
Ran
gold
Resources Ltd. ADS
U.S.
View All Search Results »
The Wall Street Journal
Welcome,
Logout
My Account
My Journal
Help
Message Center
(
new)
Log In
Register
Subscribe Now
U.S. Edition
WSJ.com is available in the following editions and languages:
U.S.
Asia
India
China
Europe
Americas
en Español
em Português
Login/Register
to set your edition
Set my edition
Today's Paper
Video
Columns
Blogs
Topics
Journal Community
Register for FREE
Register for FREE
Thank you for registering.
We sent an email to:
Please click on the link inside the email to complete your registration
Please register to gain free access to WSJ tools.
An account already exists for the email address entered.
Forgot your username or password?
This service is temporary unavailable due to system maintenance. Please try again later.
The username entered is already associated with
another account. Please enter a different username
The email address you have entered is already in use. Please re-enter the email address.
First Name
Last Name
Email Address
Create a User Name
Create a Password
Confirm Password
Send me information about more WSJ features
Create a profile for me in the
Journal Community
Why Register?
Privacy Policy
|
Terms & Conditions
As a registered user of The Wall Street Journal Online, you will be able to:
Setup and manage your portfolio
Personalize your own news page
Receive and manage newsletters
Log In
Log In
User Name
Password
Log in
Remember me
Forgot your password?
Japan
Women Mentoring Women in Japan
Companies
Device Turns Plain Toothbrushes Into Gadgets
Fukushima Watch Autos Economy & Business Technology Politics & Policy Lifestyle & Culture
Change Language:
English
日本語
日本語
Hot Topics:
Bank of Japan
Shinzo Abe
Disputed Territory
Nuclear
Fukushima Daiichi
Aging Population
March 11
Top WSJ Stories
7:15 pm
JST Jul 27, 2010
Economy & Business
Note to Japan: China Tourists Want to Soak
Article
Comments (4)
Asians China Hot Spring the United States tourism Westerners
By
Kosaku Narioka
@kosakunarioka
kosaku.narioka@wsj.com
Kosaku Narioka
Biography
CONNECT
@kosakunarioka
kosaku.narioka@wsj.com
Kosaku Narioka
Biography
Knowing what customers want is a good business practice. As Japan prepares to welcome hundreds of thousands more tourists from East Asia — particularly from China — travel-related businesses here should note that what Asians want to get out of their tours of Japan tours is a lot different from what some Westerners want.
Bloomberg News
Tourists from China stand outside a Laox Co. shop in the Akihabara district of Tokyo.
The Japanese government, as part of
its growth strategy , is attempting to attract more foreign tourists. This month, it loosened visa requirements for Chinese visitors.
Tourists from China tend to seek Japan’s hot springs, shopping and food, in that order, according to
a survey
conducted by the Japan National Tourism Organization.  Americans, by contrast, come to Japan for food, the traditional landscapes of temples and shrines and shopping, the survey found. The publicly funded organization interviewed 15,355 foreign tourists in 2009, and will publish a full report on its research at the end of July.
The preferences expressed in the survey are what drive
Asians to Tokyo and Osaka metropolitan areas
for shopping, and Westerners to
Itsukushima Shrine
in Hiroshima and more recently
Mt. Koya
in Wakayama.
“There is a little contrast between Asians and Westerners,” said Tei Zenbon spokesman for the organization.
Mr. Tei said quite a few first-time Asian visitors come to Japan for hot springs, though not many Westerners do. While Asians purchase cosmetics, electronics and sweets, Westerners buy kimono, crafts and woodwork.
“Asians show their interests in Japan’s pioneering technology and modern culture. Meanwhile, westerners want to see traditional Japan,” Mr. Tei said. “These preferences are strongly reflected in what they purchase.”
He said cosmetics are a prime example of what Asians buy that Westerners don’t.  Japanese brands such as Shiseido, Fancl, and DHC have a good reputation around East Asia for the skin-whitening abilities of their products.
South Korea still sends the most tourists to Japan, with 1.59 million visiting in 2009. But the Japan Tourism Agency
aims to
more than triple the number of Chinese tourists to 3.9 million in 2013 from 1.01 million last year.
Toshiji Aikyo, head of the Japan Tourism Association’s project promotion group, said many first-time visitors from the mainland just flow into the “golden route,” which takes tourists from Osaka, Kyoto, Mt. Fuji to Tokyo, since the market for tours has just opened.
Chinese tourists may flow into other destinations in the coming years. The Japan Tourism Agency is considering loosening requirements for interpreters so local governments can set their own standards, said Kazuhiro Suzuki, head of interpreter and guide unit at JTA. The current law prohibits people working as interpreters for profit unless they have a national license.
The Japan Tourism Association has an office in Taiwan, and many travelers from there who become repeat visitors over the past couple of decades “come to see Japan’s esoteric appeal,” Mr. Aikyo said.
The recent JNTO survey showed the top three goals for Taiwanese were hot springs, food and natural landscapes.
Japan’s leading travel agency JTB has mainly conducted “golden route” tours so far, said JTB spokesman Susumu Motoyoshi. He said the western Japanese island of Kyushu and the northern island of Hokkaido will become more popular destinations from now on because of Kyushu’s proximity and Hokkaido’s nature.
Occasionally, Asian tourists beat a path to unpromoted sites. After the Chinese film,
Fei Cheng Wu Rao (If You Are the One) , and the Korean TV drama,
Iris , become hits in their respective nations, Chinese and Korean tourists flooded into the northern Japanese regions of Hokkaido and Akita where the movie and drama were filmed.
Mr. Tei said that no local commission was behind those projects, and the locations were simply chosen by the producers.
Read this post in Japanese/日本語訳はこちら≫
For the latest news and analysis,
follow @WSJAsia
Recommended post
x
Early Rising Expats Struggle With Tokyo’s Timetable
Asians China Hot Spring the United States tourism Westerners
previous Freebies to Ease Japan iPhone 3G Load?
next Picture Japan: Action Station
Japan Real Time HOME PAGE
Add a Comment
Error message
Name
We welcome thoughtful comments from readers. Please comply with our
guidelines . Our blogs do not require the use of your real name.
Comment
Comments (4 of 4)
View all Comments »
4:09 am July 29, 2014
http://terrazasdelbayo.com/Oakleyyunique.asp?unique=oakley-jupiter-squared-c-21/
wrote:
Kieran Richardson (Fulham) wins a free kick on the left wing.
3:09 am March 18, 2014
http://www.religionandnature.com/beats/cheapest-beats.html
wrote:
Thank you for some other informative site. The place else may just I am getting that type of info written in such an ideal approach? I have a challenge that I'm simply now operating on, and I've been on the look out for such information.
1:52 pm July 28, 2010
Martin F
wrote:
As a way to help Chinese tourists, I have seen Japanese shops provide a gadget which can be used to write instructions or questions. While not all kanji used in Japan are easy for Chinese to read, at least it helps. Also, many big cities have station names and other related signs in four languages: Japanese, English, Korean and Chinese. For anyone who has done some travel abroad, Japan is probably one of the easier places to get around.
3:15 am July 28, 2010
Anonymous
wrote:
Someone please tell me how easy/difficult it is for Chinese who don't speak Japanese to get around in Japan. How easy is it to read, for example? Xie xie/domo
previous Freebies to Ease Japan iPhone 3G Load?
next Picture Japan: Action Station
About Japan Real Time
RSS
Japan Real Time is a newsy, concise guide to what works, what doesn’t and why in the one-time poster child for Asian development, as it struggles to keep pace with faster-growing neighbors while competing with Europe for Michelin-rated restaurants. Drawing on the expertise of The Wall Street Journal and Dow Jones Newswires, the site provides an inside track on business, politics and lifestyle in Japan as it comes to terms with being overtaken by China as the world’s second-biggest economy. You can contact the editors at
japanrealtime@wsj.com
Japan Real Time on Twitter
Japan Real Time on Facebook
Latest Stories from WSJ Asia
China Manufacturing Gauge Suggests Smaller Factories Are Seeing Relief
Subscriber Content
Read Preview
Seoul, Tokyo Pledge to Resolve 'Comfort Women' Dispute
Subscriber Content
Read Preview
China Conducted Military Drills
Subscriber Content
Read Preview
China's Property Junk-Bond Sector Is an Unlikely Gem
Subscriber Content
Read Preview
Russian Plane Broke Up in Flight
Subscriber Content
Read Preview
WSJ Web Slice
CONTENT
LINKS TO ACTUAL PAGE CONTAINING WEB SLICE FUNCTIONALITY.
15
Wall Street Journal
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
Google+
YouTube
Podcasts
GooglePlay
AppStore
Subscribe
/ Sign In
Back to Top «
Subscribe
Why Subscribe?
WSJ+
Corporate Subscriptions
Apps
Professor Journal
Student Journal
Customer Service
Customer Center
Live Help
Redesign Guided Tour
Tools & Features
Emails & Alerts
Guides
My News
Portfolio
RSS Feeds
Topics
Video Center
Watchlist
Ads
Advertise
Advertise Locally
Commercial Real Estate Ads
Place a Classified Ad
Sell Your Business
Sell Your Home
Recruitment & Career Ads
More
Conferences
Content Partnerships
Corrections
Jobs at WSJ
Make Time
News Archive
Register for Free
Reprints
Privacy Policy
Cookie Policy
Copyright Policy
Data Policy
Subscriber Agreement & Terms of Use
Your Ad Choices
Copyright ©2015
Dow Jones & Company , Inc. All Rights Reserved.
close
Email This
Recipient's Email Address
(Separate multiple address with commas)
Your Email Address
Message
(Optional)
Send me a copy
or
Cancel
close
Thank You
Your email has been sent.
close
Error.
An error has occured and your email has not been sent.
Please
try again .
• Invalid email address.
• You can't enter more than 20 emails.
• Seperate multiple addresses with Commas.
• Must enter an email address.
• You must enter the verification code below to send.
• Invalid entry: Please type the verification code again.