MiSs SaTreY blogs
MiSs SaTreY blogs
Rabu, 08 Februari 2012
MBLAQ
MBLAQ
MBLAQ performing at the
Cyworld
Dream Music Festival, July 23, 2011
Background information
Origin
South Korea
Genres
Pop ,
dance ,
R&B
Years active
2009–present
Labels
J.Tune Camp
(South Korea)
Sony Music Entertainment Japan
(Japan)
Associated acts
Rain
Website
m-blaq.com
Members
Seung Ho
G.O
Lee
Joon
Thunder
Mir
Past members
Kim Sang-Bae
Korean name
Hangul
엠블랙
Revised Romanization
Embeullaek
McCune–Reischauer
Empŭllaek
This
article contains
Korean
text.
Without proper
rendering support ,
you may see
question marks, boxes, or other symbols
instead of
Hangul
or
Hanja .
This
article contains
Japanese
text.
Without proper
rendering support ,
you may see
question marks, boxes, or other symbols
instead of
kanji
and
kana .
MBLAQ
( Korean :
엠블랙 ,
Japanese :
エム
ブラック ; an acronym for
Music Boys Live in Absolute Quality )
is a
South Korean
quintet
male vocal
group
created by South-Korean entertainer
Rain
under
J.Tune Camp . The group consists of
Seung Ho
(leader, lead vocalist, lead dancer),
G.O
(main vocalist),
Lee Joon
(vocalist, main dancer),
Thunder
(vocalist, lead rapper), and
Bang Mir
(main rapper). The group debuted on October 9, 2009, at Rain's
Legend
of Rainism
concert.
On October 14, 2009, the group released their debut single album,
Just
BLAQ , which topped various online and offline music charts in
South Korea. [ 1 ]
The group then released their first
extended
play
album
Y
on May 19, 2010, and on January 10, 2011, MBLAQ
released their first studio album,
BLAQ
Style .
History
2009: Just BLAQ
MBLAQ was first announced on September 21, 2009 with an appearance in
Nylon
magazine, after having trained for
two years. [ 2 ]
The group appeared alongside
Rain , in his
Legend of Rainism
concert. They
performed various songs from their produced
EP ,
Just BLAQ
and were met with praise, with many spectators at the
concert and fans considering them as the next
DBSK . [ 3 ] [ 4 ]
The group released teasers for their debut song, "Oh Yeah" on October
12, 2009 [ 5 ]
with the music video being released two days later. [ citation needed ]
Coinciding with the music video, MBLAQ's debut single album "Just
BLAQ", was released on the same day, [ 6 ]
topping various charts in South Korea. [ 1 ]
The next day, the group made their broadcast debut on
M.net's
M!
Countdown
with "Oh Yeah". [ 1 ]
In early December, the group debuted in
Japan ,
following their performance during Rain's fan meeting. Their performance
resulted in a documentary being produced surrounding their stay in
Japan. [ 7 ]
Later that month, the group commenced promotions for their follow up
track, "G.O.O.D Luv". Two music videos were released: an 'unofficial'
music video prior to the 'official' music video, which was released on
December 10, 2009. [ 8 ]
In May 2011, Thunder revealed that former member Sang Bae left the
group due to his poor health. [ 9 ]
Thunder also stated that he only joined MBLAQ fifteen days prior to
their debut, and that while he sang and rapped live for their
performances, his voice is not actually featured on any of the recorded
tracks for
Just BLAQ
due to time constraints. [ 9 ]
2010:
Y
On May 19, 2010, the group released their second
single
album ,
Y , a track that
Rain
wrote, composed, produced and choreographed. [ 10 ]
The music video for the title track, "Y" was released on the same day
at midnight with teasers being released from May 6. [ 10 ] [ 11 ]
MBLAQ claimed first place on June 3, 2010 on
M!
Countdown , [ 12 ]
and were voted the best Rookie Group for the first half of 2010 through
a poll conducted by Korean music site Bugs, obtaining 46% of the votes. [ 13 ]
On December 29, 2010, MBLAQ released a teaser music video, featuring
their song "Cry", for their their upcoming full-length
album ,
BLAQ
Style . [ 14 ]
On December 30, 2010, J.Tune Entertainment merged with JYP
Entertainment. However, as MBLAQ is part of J.Tune Camp, they are not
considered as part of JYP Entertainment.
2011:
BLAQ
Style , Japanese debut, and
Mona Lisa
MBLAQ were initially scheduled for a November 2010 return, however in
December
J.Tune Camp
revealed that MBLAQ would
be returning to the music scene in January, 2011 instead. [ 15 ]
MBLAQ displayed advertisements on buses and bus stops in
Seoul
prior
to the release of their album. [ 16 ]
It was also revealed that MBLAQ participated in the production of
BLAQ
Style , personally choosing all songs present on the album. Seung
Ho stated "As a form of independence [from Rain], we personally chose
all of the songs and participated in the production", [ 17 ]
with Seung Ho composing and playing the piano for the introductory
track "Sad Memories" and Mir writing the rap lyrics for "You're my +". [ 18 ]
On January 3, 2011, J.Tune Camp released MBLAQ's music video for
"Cry" on
Youtube , an R&B track produced by
E-Tribe . [ 19 ]
The video gained more than 500,000 views within a week. [ 20 ] [ 21 ]
In between the release of the "Cry" music video and their album, MBLAQ
revealed album jacket photos for
BLAQ Style . [ 22 ]
Prior to their album's release, MBLAQ held a fan-meet for 1,500 fans on
January 9, where the fans were able to watch the first performance of
"Cry" and also the then yet-to-be revealed title track "Stay". On the
same day J.Tune Camp announced that MBLAQ would be debuting in Japan in
May, signing with Sony Music Japan. [ 23 ]
[ 22 ]
On January 10, 2011, MBLAQ released their first
studio
album , titled
BLAQ Style , and two music video teasers for
their track "Stay". [ 24 ] [ 25 ]
After only one day of the album's release, MBLAQ recorded 25,000 orders
for
BLAQ Style . [ 18 ]
The next day J.Tune Camp released the full music video for
Stay
on
Youtube , which gained more than 400,000 in a
week. [ 20 ]
On January 13, MBLAQ returned to the stage on
Mnet's
M!
Countdown , [ 26 ]
followed by comeback performances on the 14th, 15th and 16th at
KBS's
Music Bank ,
MBC's
Music Core , and
SBS's
Inkigayo
respectively. [ 27 ]
MBLAQ were named
Artist of the Month
by MTV Korea for the
month of February. [ 28 ]
They then released a repackaged version of their studio album, titled
BLAQ Style - 3D Edition
on February 22, 2011. The album consists of the 13 tracks from
BLAQ
Style , as well as three new tracks. [ 29 ]
Two of the three new tracks included MBLAQ's participation in its
production. [ 30 ]
The track "돌아올 수 없는 (Can't Come Back)" was composed by G.O and the
lyrics were written by both G.O and Mir, while the song titled "You" was
written and composed by Thunder. When it was released,
BLAQ Style 3D
reached number one on the Hanteo charts. [ 30 ]
"Again", their last new song from
BLAQ Style - 3D Edition , was
used to promote
The Fighter
in
South Korea.
BLAQ Style 3D
was released in
Taiwan
as a
licensed album on the March 18, 2011, and reached the number one spot
from March 18 to 24 on Taiwan's G-Music chart under the
K-pop
and
J-pop
category without any promotions. [ 31 ]
J.Tune Camp held a press conference towards the end of January with
Japanese press regarding their official Japanese debut plans. [ 23 ]
In February, MBLAQ visited Japan to record songs and to have a photo
shoot for their album. [ 32 ]
Upon their arrival, 800 reporters and fans were gathered at the
airport. [ 32 ]
MBLAQ released their Japanese album on May 4, 2011, with live
performances held at Osaka, Sapporo, Nagoya, Fukuoka, and Tokyo during
the week. [ 32 ]
On April 11, 2011, the music video for "Your Luv" was released on MTV
Japan, and "Your Luv" ringtones were released on the ringtone
downloading site,
Recochoku . After the release of
Your Luv
on April 19, it was ranked first for four consecutive days on
Recochoku . [ 33 ]
MBLAQ were also placed first on the
Cellphone Message Music Video
chart. Furthermore, pre-orders for MBLAQ's single, for both the regular
and limited A and B editions, had ranked first, second and third. [ 33 ]
On May 3, MBLAQ kicked off their Japanese promotions with their debut
event held at Kanagawa Lazona Kawasaki Plaza, gathering a reported
10,000 fans. They performed "Oh Yeah", "Your Luv" and
Daijoubu
and more than 4,000 CDs were sold during the event. [ 34 ]
Your Luv
reached second position on the
Oricon Daily Charts
for May 3, which was before their official Japanese debut and release
date. On May 4, their official debut date,
Your Luv
reached first
position on the
Oricon Daily Charts , selling more than 11,000
CDs. [ 35 ]
A week after their debut, MBLAQ reached second position on the
Oricon
Weekly Charts , selling more than 40,000 copies of
Your Luv . [ 36 ]
In June it was announced that MBLAQ's "Your Luv" would be used in the
Japanese
anime
adaption of
Marvel Comics'
"Blade" .
In July 2011, MBLAQ revealed that they would release a mini-album
titled
Mona Lisa . The album was released online on July 12, 2011.
The album hit stores three days later on July 15. [ 37 ]
The online pre-orders opened on 8 July 2011, and the full music video
was released on July 12 at midnight through various Korean music sites
and J.Tune Camp's official
Youtube
channel. The concept of the album is
'celebrated works' with the members personally choosing famous figures
in history to parody. Mir chose
The
Beatles , Thunder chose
Boy
George , Lee Joon chose
Zorro , G.O chose
James
Dean , and Seung Ho chose
Papillon . [ 37 ]
The album consists of six new tracks. [ 37 ]
On July 14, MBLAQ returned to the stage on Mnet's
M! Countdown ,
followed by comeback performances on the 15th, 16th and 17th at KBS's
Music
Bank , MBC's
Music Core , and SBS's
Inkigayo
respectively. [ 38 ] [ 39 ] [ 39 ] [ 40 ]
On July 15, when
Mona Lisa
was released in stores, it reached number one on
the Hanteo Real-time, Daily and Weekly Charts.
On July 15, J.Tune Camp revealed that since July 8,
Mona Lisa
had 30,000 pre-orders, with international fans, in particular Japanese
fans, requesting more copies. [ 41 ]
J.Tune Camp stated they would be producing 50,000 more copies to meet
the demand. [ 41 ]
In September, MBLAQ reached the number one position on German music
website
Viva
with their "Mona Lisa" music video by garnering
111,000 views in a short period of time. [ 42 ]
MBLAQ's "Mona Lisa" had topped Bulgaria's
Popcore TV
chart for
sixty eight consecutive days thus far. [ 43 ]
In the same month it was revealed that MBLAQ's new Japanese single,
"Baby U", would be used as the opening theme for the Japanese anime
Beelzebub . [ 44 ]
The title track, "Baby U", of their new single album was released on
October 26, 2011. [ 45 ]
Baby
U!
reached number two on the
Oricon Daily Chart
on its
release date, selling more than 22,000 copies. [ 46 ] [ 47 ]
As part of their promotions, MBLAQ travelled to
Nagoya ,
Japan on October 28, Osaka on the 29th, and Tokyo on the 30th to
celebrate the release of their new single. On October 30, 1,500 fans
were chosen by a lottery among the 12,500 people who gathered at the
venue to join the LIVE performance and Great Bingo Tournament. On the
final day, 23,000 fans gathered for a special 'High five' event, as well
as performances. [ 48 ]
Baby U!
reached number two on the
Oricon Weekly Chart ,
selling a total of 45,624 copies in the first week. [ 49 ]
The song also reached number one on Japan's
Billboard Hot Animation
Chart . [ 50 ]
2012:
100% Ver.
On January 1, 2012 a video teaser for MBLAQ's fourth extended play
album was released, including their secondary single, “낙서 (Scribble)”.
Strangely however the captions on screen were not of the song's lyrics.
In the teaser video,
Lee Joon
is wrestling with
Thunder
for a woman, and ultimately points
his gun to kill. The video was perceived to be very different from
previous MBLAQ videos, as this was the first time the group had produced
a full-story music video that incorporated acting and action sequences.
The captions were later revealed, in the second music video teaer, to
be for their lead single "전쟁이야 (This is War)". [ 51 ]
On January 5, MBLAQ released their teaser of “This is War” on their
official
YouTube
channel, J.Tune Camp. [ 52 ]
The video reveals the 5 members in their ensemble scene, and some small
snippets of the full music video. The teaser ends with the members
standing center stage with a string orchestra gathered on either side of
them, shooting at the audience and finishes with a violent blood
splatter that reveals their lead single's name, "전쟁이야 (This is War)". [ 53 ]
On the same day, the first concept photo was also released by J.Tune
Camp. The directors jokingly stated that there was a particular member,
Mir ,
who wanted to shave his hair bald, however they took fans' opinions in
to consideration and only let the member go as far as a mohawk.
J.Tune Entertainment announced that MBLAQ's fouth mini-album was
titled
100% Ver.
because "[it] is an expression
of MBLAQ's satisfaction and confidence in the album's quality". It has
been valuably noted that MBLAQ has expended much effort in the making
the album.
Not much has been said by the members about their secondary single,
“낙서 (Scribble)”. The group members only said, “You will be able to know
about this song by listening to it rather than by us explaining about
it”. “Scribble” was released on music portal websites on January 3,
2012. When "Scribble" was released, it reached number one on
Soribada
and
Bugs Music , number three on
Mnet's Music chart , and
number four on
Cyworld Music .
[ 54 ]
"Scribble" was also promoted along with their lead single, "전쟁이야 (This
is War)", multiple times on stage as their second single from their
100%
Ver.
The full music video of "전쟁이야 (This is War)" was released four days
later, on January 10, 2012.
Lee Joon
reprised his role as the recurring lead image of MBLAQ in the music
video as a deadly but warm-hearted assassin.
Thunder
also appeared as a lead actor in
the music video as the assassin's closest friend. [ 55 ]
Both members' performance in acting, in particular
Lee Joon 's
were positively reviewed by fans and internet browsers alike. Responses
included: “MBLAQ is great as expected”, “It looks like a movie”, “The
melody played by a guitar and Joon’s crying scene makes me feel so sad”.
100% Ver.
was released on the same day as the music video,
containing a total of five songs: "Run", "전쟁이야 (This is War)", “낙서
(Scribble)”, "아찔한 그녀 (She's Breathtaking)", and "Hello My Ex"
respectively. It has been revealed that MBLAQ's
100% Ver.
had
received more than 40,000 pre-orders. [ 56 ]
Members
Stage name
Birth name
Date of birth
Position
Romanized
Hangul
Romanized
Hangul
Seung Ho
승호
Yang Seung Ho
양승호
October 16, 1987
( 1987-10-16 )
(age 24)
Leader, Lead Vocalist, Lead Dancer
G.O
지오
Jung Byung Hee
정병희
November 6, 1987
( 1987-11-06 )
(age 24)
Main Vocalist
Lee Joon
이준
Lee Chang Sun
이창선
February 7, 1988
( 1988-02-07 )
(age 24)
Vocalist, Main Dancer, Visual
Thunder
천둥
Park Sang Hyun
박상현
October 7, 1990
( 1990-10-07 )
(age 21)
Vocalist, Lead Rapper, Lead Dancer, Visual
Mir
미르
Bang Cheol Yong
방철용
March 10, 1991
( 1991-03-10 )
(age 20)
Main Rapper, Maknae
Yang
Seung Ho
(양승호), commonly known as
Seung Ho
(승호) is the
leader, lead vocalist and lead dancer of the group. He was born in
Seoul ,
South
Korea
on October 16, 1987 (age 24). He trained under his mentor and
company-founder,
Rain , before his debut with MBLAQ in 2009.
Jung Byung Hee
(정병희), better
known by his stage name
G.O
(지오) is the main vocalist of the
group. He was born in Seoul, South Korea on November 6, 1987 (age 24).
G.O is a former member of South Korean group 'TYKEYS', a three member
band that debuted in 2007.
Lee
Chang Sun
(이창선), better known by his stage name
Lee Joon
(이준) is a vocalist, main dancer and visual of the group. He was born in
Seoul, South Korea on February 7, 1988 (age 24). Before his debut as a
member of MBLAQ, Lee Joon was an actor of CFs and had a small role in
the South Korean sitcom
That Person is Coming
(그분이 오신다) which
aired in 2008. Lee Joon is also an actor, having starred in many Korean
dramas and the 2009 film
Ninja Assassin .
Park Sang Hyun
(박상현), better known by
his stage name
Thunder
(천둥) or
Cheondung
is a vocalist,
lead rapper, lead dancer and visual in the group. He was born in
Busan , South
Korea on October 7, 1990 (age 21). Thunder's family moved to the
Philippines
in 1995 to start a trading business. His older sister,
Sandara
Park , is also in the entertainment industry as a member of the
South Korean girl group,
2NE1 .
Bang
Cheol Yong
(방철용), better known by his stage name
Mir
(미르) is the main rapper and maknae (youngest member) of the group. He
was born in
Jangseong ,
South Jeolla , South Korea on March 10, 1991 (age
20). Mir's family was a farming family, his father worked as a farmer
in Jangseong, and Mir always helped with the farm work. His family has
since moved to Seoul as his father is now a lecturer at
Kyung Hee University .
Music, dance,
and influence
Initially debuting as a group more focused on dance and pop music,
MBLAQ have since experimented with different genres. "Oh Yeah" and "Y"
were dance/pop tracks, "My Dream", "Last Luv" and "Rust" are ballad
tracks, "Bang Bang Bang" is rock/pop, "Cry" is an R&B track, and
"Stay" is a track infused with hip-hop, electronic and rock. [ 57 ]
With
Rain
being their mentor and major
influence, he has either written, composed, produced and/or
choreographed a few tracks for MBLAQ, including "Oh Yeah", "G.O.O.D
Luv", "Y", "Cry" and "Stay". For the release of
Just BLAQ
and
Y ,
MBLAQ focused heavily on their performance with strong choreography.
With
BLAQ Style , MBLAQ decided to focus more on the music and
melody rather than the choreography. [ 58 ]
Other Activities
Television
2009
In late 2009, MBLAQ's first aired program was
Mnet's
MBLAQ - The Art of Seduction , which
received record ratings. [ 59 ]
With their trip to Japan for Rain's fanmeet, music channel
Mnet
Japan
decided to film a documentary of their stay, selecting them as
the first stars of their show
2010 K-Pop Star
series. [ 7 ]
The documentary, called
Yo! Tokyo , aired in early 2010, showing
the public their experience with Japanese culture and traditions over a
period of four days.
On December 15, 2009, it was announced that the group would be part
of season five of the
Idol Show
( Hangul :
아이돌 군단의 떴다! 그녀!, lit.
Idol Army, She Has Arrived! ), with the
first episode airing a day later. [ 60 ]
MBLAQ filmed a total of sixteen episodes.
2010
From February 18, 2010, MBLAQ members
G.O
and
Lee Joon
took on the role of co-hosts (MCD Guys) for the music show
M!
Countdown . [ 61 ]
In March,
Thunder
participated in Mnet's
Mnet
Scandal . [ 62 ]
Thunder, having lived in the Philippines, participated in the cable TV
show,
Mom, I've gone crazy for English
with fellow K-Pop singer
Nicole of
Kara , where he was an English mentor to young
children. [ 63 ]
He was also a host of
The M-Wave
with fellow artist Krystal of
f(x) . [ 64 ] , . [ 65 ]
To coincide with the
2010 FIFA World Cup , MTV Korea created a program where
members of male idol groups formed a soccer team to compete against
other soccer teams. [ 66 ]
The fourteen-member team consisted of members from
U-KISS ,
ZE:A ,
F.Cuz , and
D-NA (Dae Guk Nam Ah), with MBLAQ members being Seung Ho, Lee Joon and
Mir.
In addition to his MC role in
M! Countdown , Joon also took on
the role of MC for QTV's
Ranking Women , [ 67 ]
however he has since left the program to focus on his music activities. [ 68 ]
He was a permanent member of the TV show
Star Golden Bell , which
had been replaced by
Oh! My School .
At the end of May, MBLAQ participated in GOMTV's
Making the Artist ,
a small documentary on their life as artists. [ 69 ]
MBLAQ filmed a total of four episodes documenting their promotions for
Y .
Following their promotions for
Y , MBLAQ were cast in the final
series of Mnet's
Celebrities Go to School . [ 70 ]
Their mentor for the show is actor
Kim Soo-Ro . The show started airing in August
2010.
MBLAQ have filmed a cameo in
Rain's
2010 drama
Fugitive
( Korean :
도망자 ),
where filming took place at the Saitama JEFF Hall. [ 71 ]
The members of MBLAQ have also made an appearance in Lee Joon's drama
Housewife
Kim Kwan Ja's third Activity .
2011
In 2011, Thunder was made a permanent cast member of the
KBS
show
Imagination Arcade . [ 72 ]
Fellow member Lee Joon was a permanent cast member of
Oh! My School ,
the show ended on May 29, 2011.
In March, MBLAQ took part in MNet Wide's new corner,
Refreshing
Interview , with their own show called
Sesame Player . [ 73 ]
MBLAQ filmed a total of thirteen episodes, and
Infinite
had been selected to film Season 2.
In June, it was announced that G.O would replace
B2ST's
Yoseob in
Immortal Song 2 , staying
as a cast member for at least a month with new cast members including
F.T
Island's
Hongki,
2PM's
Junsu and
Secret's
Ji Eun. [ 74 ]
In September, it was announced the Lee Joon had been cast in the SBS
drama
Fly Again , which is set to air in early 2012, [ 75 ]
however, due to scheduling conflicts, he will be replaced by Lee Chun
Hee.
2012
On January 5th, it was announced that MBLAQ would be participating in
KBS Joy's Hello Baby Season 5, and new episodes are aired weekly.
[ 76 ]
Campaigns and
Endorsements
In 2010 MBLAQ received a few endorsement deals which included
TB Jeans
(TBJ) , [ 77 ]
Cacao Black
CF [ citation needed ]
which featured MBLAQ's song "Oh Yeah",
Pink Wings Charity Campaign , [ 78 ]
and an endorsement deal with
Chapstick . MBLAQ released two
songs, titled "사랑해도 참는다 Part.1" and "사랑해도 참는다 Part.2". Two music videos
and a music drama, which also featured ex- T-ara
member
Yang Ji Won, for
Chapstick
were also released.
Thunder was featured in a CF for
Tropicana Sparkling
which, in
addition to being a parody of MBLAQ's "Y" MV, also incorporated MBLAQ's
song "Y" and music video into the CF [ citation needed ] .
Cheon Doong also appeared in two CFs for
Alba Heaven , which
featured MBLAQ's song "Oh Yeah".
In 2011, MBLAQ participated in MBC's
Give Life to a Child
Campaign, where they raised awareness about bone-marrow transplants on
the streets of Youngdeungpo’s Time Square. [ 79 ]
MBLAQ also shot CFs for the shoe brand
Ball'N .
Solo activities
On May 31, 2011, J.Tune Camp announced that G.O would soon be
releasing a digital single composed of songs he had written and
composed. [ 80 ]
His solo song is an R'n'B ballad track titled "내 꿈에서라도" or "Even in my
Dreams", which features fellow member Mir.
On October 25, 2011, G.O released "Believe", a track to appear to the
OST
of
Mr.
Idol . [ 81 ]
Discography
Main article:
MBLAQ discography
Korean discography
Studio albums
BLAQ Style
(2011)
Repackaged albums
BLAQ Style - 3D Edition
(2011)
Extended plays
Y
(2010)
Mona Lisa
(2011)
100% Ver.
(2012)
Single albums
Just BLAQ
(2009)
Digital Singles
White Forever
(2011)
Japanese discography
Compilations
BLAQ Memories -Best in Korea-
(2012)
Singles
Your
Luv
(2011)
Baby
U!
(2011)
DVDs
Mona Lisa Style
(2011)
MBLAQ
Members G.O, Seung Ho and Lee Joon participated in Jo Deok Bae's
25th anniversary album. They sang "If You Come Into My Heart/그대 내 맘에
들어오면은" featuring C-Luv. (2010)
Featured in the OST of the Korean drama
The Fugitive: Plan B
( Korean :
도망자 ),
singing the main theme titled "Running & Running". [ 82 ]
(2010)
MBLAQ also sang one of the ending themes for
Fugitive , titled
"뱅뱅뱅 (Bang Bang Bang)" which was released at midnight on November, 24. [ 83 ]
(2010)
MBLAQ participated in the recording of the OST of a 3D animated
movie based on the popular Korean drama
Full House . [ 84 ]
The animated movie was set for release in Korea and Japan in November
2010.
They Participated in the OST of the Korean drama
Lie to Me
( Korean :
내게 거짓말을 해봐
), singing "I Belong To You". (2011)
Participated in the OST of the Korean drama
Scent of a Woman ,
with the song "You & I". [ 85 ]
(2011)
Members Lee Joon and Thunder have collaborated with Chinese artist
Wei Chen , and their digital single "Run Away" was
released on August 25. [ 86 ]
(2011)
Participated in the 4th Opening Theme Song of the Japanese anime
Beelzebub , with the song "Baby U". [ 87 ]
(2011)
Starred in season five of
Hello Baby ;
MBLAQ's Hello Baby . [ 88 ]
(2012)
Concerts
Mnet Ultimate Live Asia (MULA)
(2010)
Kpop Heal The World in Singapore
(2011)
Men in MBLAQ
(2011)
Kpop Music Festival in Sydney
(2011)
K-Friends 2011 Taipei Fireworks Concert
(2011)
Billboard KPop Masters in Las Vegas
(2011)
KPOP Big Four Seasons Concert in Tokyo
(2011)
Awards
Year
Award
2010
17th Annual Republic of Korea Entertainment Arts Awards Ceremony:
Group Singer Award [ 89 ]
18th Korean Cultural Entertainment Awards: New Generation Popular
Music Teen Singer Award [ 90 ] [ 91 ]
2011
Asia Jewelry Awards: Diamond Award [ 92 ]
19th Korean Cultural Entertainment Awards: Idol Music Grand Award [ 93 ]
26th
Golden Disk Awards : Disk Bonsang [ 94 ]
2012
7th Annual Asia Model Awards: Popular Singer Award [ 95 ]
Diposkan oleh
yuk satery
di
17.52
Tidak ada komentar:
Kirimkan Ini lewat Email BlogThis! Berbagi ke Twitter Berbagi ke Facebook Bagikan ke Pinterest
Kamis, 22 September 2011
Super Junior
Super Junior
Super Junior performing at
SMTown Live '08
in
Bangkok ,
Thailand
Background information
Origin
Seoul ,
South Korea
Genres
Pop ,
R&B ,
dance ,
electropop ,
electronica ,
dance-pop ,
rock ,
electro ,
hip-hop ,
bubblegum pop
Years active
2005–present
Labels
S.M. Entertainment
(South Korea)
Avex Group
(Japan)
Associated acts
SM Town ,
Super Junior-K.R.Y. ,
Super Junior-T ,
Super Junior-M ,
Super Junior-Happy ,
S.M. The Ballad ,
M&D
Website
superjunior.smtown.com ,
facebook.com/superjunior
Members
Leeteuk
Heechul
Han Geng
Yesung
Kangin
Shindong
Sungmin
Eunhyuk
Donghae
Siwon
Ryeowook
Kibum
Kyuhyun
Korean name
Hangul
슈퍼주니어
Revised Romanization
Syupeojunieo
McCune–Reischauer
Syupŏjuniŏ
This article contains
Korean
text.
Without proper
rendering support , you may see
question marks, boxes, or other symbols
instead of
Hangul
or
Hanja .
This article contains
Chinese
text.
Without proper
rendering support , you may see
question marks, boxes, or other symbols
instead of
Chinese characters .
This article contains
Japanese
text.
Without proper
rendering support , you may see
question marks, boxes, or other symbols
instead of
kanji
and
kana .
Super Junior
( Korean :
슈퍼주니어 ;
Japanese :
スーパージュニア ) is a South Korean
boy band
from formed by
S.M. Entertainment
in 2005. The group debuted with 12 members:
Leeteuk
(leader),
Heechul ,
Han Geng ,
Yesung ,
Kangin ,
Shindong ,
Sungmin ,
Eunhyuk ,
Donghae ,
Siwon ,
Ryeowook ,
Kibum
and later added a 13th member named
Kyuhyun ; they are one of the largest boy bands in the world. As of September 2011, eight members are currently active, [ 1 ]
due to Han Geng's lawsuit with S.M. Entertainment which led to him
leaving the group (now pursuing his own singing career in the Mandarin
pop entertainment industry), Heechul and Kangin's temporary leave of
absence for mandatory
military service , Siwon's filming for his upcoming drama
Poseidon
(in which shooting of the drama are located at the farthest areas of
South Korea, making him to temporary halt his activities with the group) [ 2 ]
and Kibum's pursuit of an acting career. [ 3 ]
However, the other members have insisted that the four (Heechul,
Kangin, Kibum and Han Geng) are still part of the group, the group also
mentioned that they are saddened by Han Geng's departure from the group. [ 4 ] [ 5 ]
Super Junior has released and contributed in 20 different kinds of records with varying degrees of success. [ 6 ]
Over the years, they have been divided into smaller subgroups,
simultaneously targeting different music industries and audiences.
Largely due to Super Junior's success as entertainers, other Korean
entertainment managements began to train their music groups in other
areas of entertainment, such as acting and hosting. [ 6 ]
In addition to their commercial success, Super Junior has earned seven music awards from the
Mnet Asian Music Awards , eleven from the
Golden Disk Awards , and is the second singing group to win Favorite Artist Korea at the 2008
MTV Asia Awards
after
jtL
in 2003. [ 7 ]
History
Pre-debut
In 2001, the company held their first overseas casting auditions and discovered Han Geng in
Beijing ,
China , who was chosen from among three thousand applicants. [ 8 ]
That same year, Yesung was discovered under Seoul's casting system.
Sungmin and Donghae became trainees after jointly winning the first
place in Best Outward Appearance in an S.M.-sponsored contest. In 2002,
Heechul and Kangin were recruited along with Kibum, who was discovered
in
Los Angeles ,
California. Siwon was encountered in 2003 after being scouted at age 16
in front of his high school, and Ryeowook in 2004, in which the latter
was discovered through the Chin Chin Youth Festival singing competition. [ 9 ]
In 2005, Shindong was selected. The last member, Cho Kyuhyun, was then
discovered after winning third place at the Chin Chin Singing
Competition in 2005.
Not long after boy band
TVXQ 's
debut in 2003, news about Lee's unprecedented plans of forming another
boy band quickly spread on the Internet. In early 2005, Lee confirmed
the news and announced that an all-boy project group of twelve members
would debut near the end of the year, promoting this singing group to
be "The Gateway to Stardom of Asia." [ 10 ]
Lee announced that that most members in this group were chosen because of their performing experiences as actors,
MCs , models, and
radio hosts
prior debut. Heechul and Kibum were already established entertainers,
and most of the other members had already made various kinds of
appearances on television and media. [ 11 ] [ 12 ] [ 13 ]
Highly inspired by the rotational concept of Japan's girl group
Morning Musume ,
this group would also experience line-up changes, with new members
replacing some selected members every year to keep the group constantly
young and all-rounded. This concept was then newly introduced to the
K-pop
market.
For a while the group was rumored to be called O.V.E.R, the acronym for "Obey the Voice for Each Rhythm." [ 14 ] [a]
However, before the group settled with their current name, S.M. simply
referred to them as Junior, a representation of the members' young ages
when they first became S.M. trainees. [ 14 ]
After the members' showcased their different talents to the company at
a picnic, the company finalized their concept name to Super Junior. The
group thereafter became officially Super Junior 05, the first
generation of Super Junior. [ 9 ]
Leeteuk said on
Star Golden Bell
that "at first, Super Junior's name was S.M. Junior, but after Lee Soo
Man saw our performance, he said we have super talent and quickly
change our name to Super Junior". [ citation needed ]
Super Junior 05 made their pre-debut on the Korean channel Mnet on September 11, 2005. [b]
At the showcase, they performed various styles of
hip-hop dancing , where they danced to
B2K 's "Take It to the Floor". Han Geng, Eunhyuk, and Donghae also performed a separate dance away from the group, dancing to
Usher 's " Caught Up ." However, the performance did not air on television until May 16, 2006, as a segment in the
Super Junior Show , the group's first television documentary.
2005–06: The Super Junior project
Super Junior 05 debuted on
SBS 's music program
Popular Song
on November 6, 2005, performing their first single, " Twins (Knock Out) ". A
digital single
with "Twins (Knock Out)", "You Are the One", and three additional tracks were released online on November 8. A physical
CD single
was scheduled to be released the following week but a more complete album,
SuperJunior05 (Twins) ,
was released on December 6, 2005, instead. Their debut album sold
28,536 copies in the first month of release and debuted at number three
in the monthly chart of December 2005. [ 15 ] [c]
In that same month, they released " Show Me Your Love ",
a collaboration single with TVXQ. "Show Me Your Love" became the
best-selling record of December 2005, selling 49,945 copies that month. [ 15 ]
In February 2006, Super Junior 05 began performances for " Miracle ",
the second promotional single from their debut album. "Miracle" was the
group's first single to top the online music charts of South Korea as
well as the music charts of
Thailand , drawing interest from international markets. [ 16 ]
As promotions for "Miracle" came to an end, S.M. Entertainment began
selecting new members for Super Junior's second line-up project, Super
Junior 06. The company even prepared a list of chosen members that were
to graduate from the group. However, no members were taken out and a
thirteenth member was added instead in May 2006. The line-up project
has been abandoned since then, and the group became known as just Super
Junior, without the suffix "05". [ 17 ] [ 18 ]
2006–07:
Don't Don
and breakthrough success
On May 23, 2006, S.M. Entertainment revealed the thirteenth member
Kyuhyun, who was discovered through a singing competition in 2005. They
released their single " U "
online for free download on May 25, 2006, on their official website.
"U" had over 400,000 downloads within five hours of release and it
ultimately exceeded 1.7 million downloads, crashing the server. [ 19 ] [ 20 ]
The
physical single
of "U" with a total of three tracks was released on June 6, 2006, eventually selling over 81,000 units. [ 21 ]
The single became one of Korea's most popular songs of the year,
yielding number one spots for five consecutive weeks on two of Korea's
top music programs. [ 22 ]
By the end of the year, Super Junior collected over seven awards in
five of South Korea's top music award ceremonies, winning the title as
Best New Group of 2006.
Super Junior's first sub-unit, the ballad-singing trio
Super Junior-K.R.Y. , debuted on November 5, 2006, with a performance of
Hyena
theme song "The One I Love" on
KBS
music program
Music Bank . [ 23 ]
A second sub-unit arrived in February 2007 called
Super Junior-T . The
trot -singing group released their first single " Rokuko " on February 23, 2007, and made a debut performance on
Popular Songs
two days later. [ 24 ]
Super Junior's second official album was intended for a late 2006 release, but due to several accidental setbacks,
Don't Don
was not released until September 20, 2007. [ 25 ] [ 26 ]
Within the first three days of release, offline album sales for
Don't Don
passed the 11,000 unit mark, debuting as number one in all available
offline charts. It finished the September monthly album sales as number
one. 60,000 units were shipped by the first week of release and
additional copies were printed. [ 27 ]
Although
Don't Don
received rather bland reviews from critics, the album sold more than
160,000 copies by the end of the year, becoming the second best-selling
record of 2007. [ 28 ] [ 29 ] [c]
The album also found success in
Taiwan ;
it broke the record for being the highest ranked Korean album on the
G-music Combo Billboard Chart, surpassing the albums of TVXQ and
Shinhwa . Super Junior's album also ranked above Taiwanese boy band
K One , whose album debuted at number six. [ 30 ] [ 31 ]
Supported by the release of
Don't Don , Super Junior was
nominated in seven separate categories at the 2007 Mnet/KM Music
Festival that was held on November 17, 2007. Super Junior won three of
those categories including "Netizen Choice Award" and "Mobile
Popularity", being the biggest winner of the night. The group also won
"Best Artist of the Year" (Daesang), termed by many as the highest
recognition of the ceremony. [ 32 ]
Super Junior collected two more awards on December 14 at the 2007 Golden Disk Awards. [ 33 ]
Although defeated by
SG Wannabe
in winning the "Daesang", Super Junior won a "Bonsang" and the "TPL
Anycall Popularity Award", which were reported as expected wins for the
group by the media after the success of
Don't Don . [ 33 ]
2008–09: Beyond Korea and
Sorry, Sorry
On October 2, 2007, S.M. Entertainment announced a third Super Junior sub-unit
Super Junior-M , a subgroup designated for the Chinese market. [ 34 ] [ 35 ]
While the creation of the subgroup created a brief controversy between the fans and the management, [e]
Super Junior-M became a success in China, [ 36 ]
having the opportunity to have two sold-out concerts in
Hong Kong , [ 37 ]
top weekly ratings with their appearance on variety programs, [ 38 ]
and becoming the idol group with the most endorsement contracts in China. [ 39 ]
With the absence of almost half of the members in Korea, a fourth Super
Junior sub-unit was created that same year to prevent Super Junior from
disappearing in the Korean music industry. With five members from
Super Junior-T
and Yesung, they formed the subgroup,
Super Junior-Happy . Super Junior-Happy released the
extended play
(EP)
Cooking? Cooking!
on June 5, 2008, and promotions ended on September 7, lasting for four
months. In November 2008, Super Junior-T returned, this time as a
singing group in
Japan , called SuperJunior-TxMoeyan; this group added Moeyan, a two-woman comedy group in Japan. [ 40 ]
" ROCK&GO ", a Japanese-language version of "Rokuko", debuted at number 19 on the Oricon Daily Charts [ 41 ]
and ascended to number 2 three days later. [ 42 ]
Super Junior's first major tour,
Super Show , commenced on February 22, 2008, in
Seoul . [ 43 ] [ 44 ] [ 45 ] [f]
The tour covered three countries and had shows on six different cities, including
Bangkok ,
Shanghai , and
Beijing . [ 35 ] [ 44 ] [ 46 ]
From July 8 to July 9, 2008, Super Junior held their first fan meeting in Japan, at the
Nippon Budokan
in
Tokyo , as a celebration for the grand opening of their official Japanese homepage, which was launched on April 1, 2008. [ 47 ]
12,000 tickets to the fan meeting were all sold out in several days.
The group released a compiled Japan single the following day, entitled
"U/Twins", which includes the Japanese version of "U" in the limited
release, to complement the event. The single peaked at number four on
Japan's Oricon Daily Chart in its first day of release, and dropped
down four places in its second. The single broke a new record for being
the first Korean single to have made within top 10 on Japan's Oricon
Weekly Chart. [ 48 ]
On August 2, 2008, Super Junior expanded their routes to Genting
Highlands, Malaysia, being one of the top guest performers at the
MTV Asia Awards 2008
along with other international performing artists such as
OneRepublic
and the
Jabbawockeez . [ 7 ]
They are the third SM artist to win Favorite Artist Korea at the MTV Asia Awards after
Kangta
of
H.O.T
and
BoA , and the second musical group to win the award after
JTL
in 2008. [ 7 ]
Super Junior's third album,
Sorry, Sorry , was released on March 12, 2009, which was met with acclaimed reviews. [ 49 ]
The title single of the album, " Sorry, Sorry " was digitally released on March 9, 2009. [ 50 ]
In less than a week after pre-orders were announced, over 150,000 copies were pre-ordered. [ 51 ]
Sorry, Sorry
was their first album to debut at number one on the Hanteo Charts, and it sold over 29,000 copies the first day, defeating
Seo Taiji 's record of 25,000. [ 3 ]
Promotions for the album started March 13 with the performance of "Sorry, Sorry" and "Why I Like You" on
Music Bank . [ 52 ]
Two weeks later, "Sorry, Sorry" became the number one song of the week on the same program. [ 53 ]
During the group's performance on music program
Popular Songs
on March 15, ratings went up to as high as 14%, the highest in recent years. [ 54 ]
From March to May, "Sorry, Sorry" collected a total of ten number-one
awards with consecutive wins in Korea, having the single becoming a
national and international success. [ 55 ] [ 56 ]
After only a month of release, the album became South Korea's best-selling album of 2009.
Sorry, Sorry
was also a critically and commercially successful hit in other Asian
countries, opting the group to become the only overseas representative
for the second time at Taiwan's annual
Golden Melody Awards . "Sorry, Sorry" was also number one for a record-breaking 37 weeks in Taiwan.
Sorry, Sorry
was a best-selling Korean-language album in Taiwan, [ 57 ]
Thailand, China, and the Philippines, in which the latter listed the album to be the first
K-pop
album to reach number one in music charts from the country. [ 58 ]
Super Junior won three awards in the 1st Mnet Asian Music Awards -
Overseas Viewers Award, Mobile Popularity Award and CGV Popularity
Award despite not attending. Super Junior's
Sorry, Sorry
won Daesang at the 2009 Golden Disk Awards. They held their second Asia Tour
Super Show 2
start in Seoul on July 17, 2009, and ended in Manila, Philippines on April 10, 2010.
[ edit ]
2010:
Bonamana , Asian popularity and Hallyu leaders
On May 6, 2010, the teaser for their fourth studio album,
Bonamana , was released through S.M. Entertainment's
YouTube
page. The full music video of the
lead single
of the same name was released on May 12 and full album was released the
following day in South Korea. The album was released by the group with
only 10 members, without
Han Geng
who has terminated his contract with S.M. Entertainment,
Kibum
who is involved in acting career and
Kangin
who had enlisted himself in to the Korean army. [ 59 ]
Their fourth album had also broken a personal record for the group by
having over 200,000 pre-orders. On May 14, Super Junior had their
comeback stage on
KBS Music Bank , performing title track "미인아 (Bonamana)" and "나쁜 여자 (Boom Boom)".
On May 17, 2010, the music video for the song "Victory Korea", which was used for the
2010 FIFA World Cup , was released through S.M. Entertainment's YouTube page. [ 60 ]
Super Junior’s World Cup song ‘Victory Korea’ set to cheer the South
Korean team in the top 16 garners interests overseas. A poll was done
on American site ESPN for the Best World Cup Song. There were 11 songs
shortlisted for the poll including
Shakira 's " Waka Waka (This Time for Africa) ",
K'naan 's " Wavin' Flag ",
Akon 's " Oh Africa " etc., to which the song "Victory Korea" by Super Junior was voted number one with over 90% of the poll. [ 61 ]
"Victory Korea" features a sample mix from "Sorry, Sorry", with a
similar dance done by the members of Super Junior-Happy in the music
video.
On June 28, 2010, Super Junior released their repackaged album with
three new tracks—"No Other", "All My Heart", "A Short Journey"—and the
remixed version of "Shake It Up!". "A Short Journey" was composed by
Donghae
and the lyrics were written by
Eunhyuk .
"All My Heart" was composed by Leeteuk and Super Junior-M member Henry.
On July 2, 2010, Super Junior had their first live performance of "No
Other" on
Music Bank . The music video for "No Other" was
released on July 7, 2010. According to Hanteo, the album has sold over
200,000 copies to date. [ 62 ]
The group embarked on their third Asian tour,
Super Show 3
on August 14 and 15, 2010 at the
Olympic Gymnastics Arena
in Seoul. [ 63 ]
The tour also made a stop in
Qingdao
on August 28, 2010,
Beijing
on October 23, 2010, and
Nanjing
on November 13, 2010. [ 64 ]
On September 4, 2010, Super Junior took part in the
SMTown Live '10 World Tour
along with fellow SM label mates at the
Staples Center
in
Los Angeles , California. This marked the first time
SM Town
has performed outside of Asia. [ 65 ]
On September 23, 2010, Super Junior released their original soundtrack "Angel" for
Haru: An Unforgettable Day in Korea , an omnibus drama that promotes Korea's tourism. [ citation needed ] . On November 22, Super Junior was honored as
National Pop Culture Icon
and received Minister of Culture Awards by the Ministry of Culture,
Sports and Tourism at Pop Culture Art Awards for their role in
spreading the
Korean Wave . On November 24, Avex Entertainment, as well as
S.M. Entertainment
Japan, released a statement about the renewal of contracts of SM artists signed to Avex. [ 66 ]
On August 16, 2011, It was announced that
Bonamana
remained at the top of Taiwan's Music Charts for 62 weeks, breaking their own previous record of the said chart. [ citation needed ]
2011–present: Japanese forays and
Mr. Simple
Super Junior had not taken part in any official promotions in Japan,
but from February 18 to February 20, 2011, Super Junior held their
third Asia tour concert
Super Show 3
at the
Yokohama Arena
in Japan. The ticket applicants for Super Show 3 Japan exceeded 110,000, while 36,000 people came to watch their performance. [ 67 ]
The
Super Junior Japan 'Super Show 3' Opening Commemorative Album
was released on February 16 ranked in at number two on Japan's
Tower Records
online sales charts.
Super Junior Japan Limited Special Edition - Super Show 3
that contained a DVD ranked in second place and the CD was in 10th
place. The album also remained at number three spot on the Oricon Daily
Chart for two consecutive days and number six on Oricon Weekly Chart.
On February 24, Super Junior released a 3D movie from their third Asia tour,
Super Show 3 3D
in all CGV and Primus movie theaters. [ 68 ]
Super Show 3 3D
was ranked sixth in box office weekly chart and became the most watched 3D movie in Korea. [ 69 ]
The group's first official Japanese single, "Bijin (Bonamana)" was released on June 8, 2011 and debuted at number two on the
Oricon
Daily Singles Chart, selling 27,168 copies on its release date. [ 70 ]
In addition, the music video for the song, which is a compilation of
videos from Super Show 3 held at Yokohama Arena in February, received
over 300,000 views on the Japanese UCC website,
Nikoniko
in a day. [ 71 ]
On June 14, Super Junior's "Bijin (Bonamana)" ranked at number two on the
Oricon
Weekly Singles Chart, selling 59,262 copies. They broke the record for
having the highest single album sales for a Korean idol group when
their single albums that were released in Japan sold combined total of
over 100,000 copies (including those sold at Circle K Sunkus and Mu-Mo), [ 72 ]
until it was surpassed by fellow label mate
Shinee
with their debut Japanese single " Replay (Kimi wa Boku no Everything) "
at the same month. To date, Super Junior holds the highest record for
singles released set upon by a Korean group without any promotion in
Japan.
[ 73 ]
Beginning May 16, the song was shown on major Japanese television
channels as the commercial song for Japanese convenience store chain
Circle K Sunkus .
However, despite these success and tie-ups, SM did not see it as their
official Japanese debut and has stated that the group will officially
debut and promote in Japan at a later time.
In June 2011, they took part in the SMTown World Tour Live in Paris with fellow label mates, which was held in
Zénith de Paris , Paris, France. On July 11, 2011, American dancer
Kenny Wormald
posted via his official
Twitter
account that he had started the choreography rehearsal for the group's upcoming new single. [ 74 ] [ 75 ] Shim Jae Won, choreographer and former member of the disbanded S.M. Entertainment group
Black Beat , posted on his twitter a picture showing ten cups with the members' names on it, [ 76 ]
citing possible formation for the song's choreography, as well as two
pictures of the choreography practice of the group the next day showing
only the lower half of their bodies. [ 77 ]
A teaser photo was revealed on July 20, 2011, with the first photo
featuring Eunhyuk. By 1:21PM GST on the 26th of July, all ten teaser
photos had been released, in the following order: Eunhyuk, Donghae,
Leeteuk, Shindong, Kyuhyun, Sungmin, Ryeowook, Yesung, Siwon and
finally, Heechul. On the same day, it was announced that the
upcoming album
would hit South Korean record shelves on August 3, 2011. [ 78 ] [ 79 ]
On July 22, 2011, the group began filming the music video for their new
lead single, with occasional photo tweets of the music video sets from
Shim Jaewon and member Heechul. [ 80 ]
The filming for the music video wrapped up July 24, 2011, with Shim
Jaewon consistently updating the group's filming activity. On July 25,
Jeon Hoon of Sonic Korea Studio announced that he is mastering the new
album. The group will have an upcoming press conference at the Seoul
Imperial Palace Hotel regarding the new album, revealed as " Mr. Simple ", on August 4, 2011. [ 81 ]
The music video teaser for the new single " Mr. Simple "
has been released on August 1, 2011, to be followed by the digital
single on the 2nd (through various Korean online music sites like
Melon, Dosirak and Bugs), the album on the 3rd and the music video
itself on the 4th. [ 82 ]
The group had their comeback performance of "Mr. Simple" and
"Superman" (in which the track was later included on the second release
of "Mr. Simple") at Music Bank on August 5, 2011 [ 83 ] , followed by Music Core on the 6th [ 84 ] ,
Inkigayo
on the 7th [ 85 ]
and M! Countdown on the 11th. [ 86 ] ,
with their comeback performance of the song in M!Countdown garnered
them their first win. However, despite being in the middle of
promotions for the song, member Siwon does not appear on some
performances due to his filming with an upcoming drama
Poseidon .
On August 21, 2011, S.M. Entertainment announced that member Heechul
will be enlisting to the army on September 1, 2011. On August 26, 2011,
a music video for the album's supporting single, "Superman", was
revealed via S.M. Entertainment's SMTOWN YouTube page, in which the
music video shows various clips from their
Super Show 3
tours as well as the photoshoots and music video making for "Mr. Simple". [ 87 ]
On September 19, 2011, Super Junior released a repackaged version of Mr. Simple entitled
A-Cha ,
which comprises all thirteen tracks from Mr. Simple's B-version plus
four new material — "A-Cha", "Oops!!" which features labelmate
f(x) ,
"A Day" and "Andante". On September 20, 2011, it was announced via the
group's official Japanese website that they will release their second
Japanese single which is a Japanese version of their new album title
track "Mr. Simple", and is slated for a December 7th release in Japan. [ 88 ] [ 89 ]
In addition, a "Super Show 3 in Japan" DVD will be released on November 16th in Japan. [ 90 ]
Artistry
Musical style
As a whole, Super Junior has released five studio albums and one
physical single, including occasional contributions to drama
soundtracks. They are acclaimed for their vocal harmonization and
unison as each member contributes a different position range in their
music. Some members are credited for their
vocal belting
techniques. [g] [ 91 ]
Super Junior works closely with
Yoo Young-jin ,
who has produced and arranged most of the group's promotional singles
since debut. Yoo's also known for creating the renowned SMP style, a
genre that includes a balanced infusion of rock, R&B, and rap, with
complementing musical elements such as the
electric guitar , bass, and other different
percussion instruments . [ 92 ]
Super Junior has prominently used this SMP style in
Don't Don . [ 93 ]
Super Junior displayed a wide genre concept for each and every albums: they pursued
bubblegum pop
in
SuperJunior05 ;
ethereal
and
alternative rock
in
Don't Don ;
pop
and
contemporary R&B
in
Sorry, Sorry
and
Bonamana ; and
electropop
and
synthpop
in
Mr. Simple . The group has also covered few songs in their albums. Their debut single "Twins (Knock Out)" is a
cover
of
Triple Eight 's
"Knockout," which was released in 2003. While the musical style is
mostly maintained as the original, "Twins (Knock Out)" touches closer
to rap rock, with quicker rap and more emphasis on the bass. In most of
their covers, the original titles are kept. Examples include Cape's
"L.O.V.E" and
Exile's
"Believe." However, most of these covers are re-arranged to different accompaniments, such as
H.O.T 's "Full of Happiness".
Dance Style
Super Junior are known for doing performances that are heavily
centered around their choreography, and are acclaimed for their highly
synchronized dances. The group's pre-debut performance was a hip hop
dance and they have also joined
B-boy
battles and performances throughout their career. [ 94 ]
Their dance styles are widely termed as street dancing, with a
majority of their choreography containing hip hop dance moves such as
popping, waving, floating, and liquid dancing. Dances in the form of
martial arts are widely used in their dance routines as Han Geng and
Sungmin are professionally trained in that area. [ 95 ] [ 96 ]
Shindong was the main choreographer for "U" and for a majority of the
group's other dance sequences. Eunhyuk choreographed the dance for
"Boom, Boom" (Fourth Album) and also worked with the other members to
create the dance choreography for "Don't Don" and "Marry U", both
promotional singles for the group's second album. The dance for their
hit single "Sorry, Sorry" was choreographed by Nick Bass and Trent
Dickens, who has also worked with Justin Timberlake and Janet Jackson.
Nick Bass also choreographed the dance for "BONAMANA". The dance for
"No Other" was choreographed by THE GEMINIZ,
Rino Nakasone
and Maryss From Paris. Super Junior M "Perfection" was choreographed by
Misha Gabriel who had worked with other well known acts and
choreographed Justin Timberlake's "Future Love Sex Show," Pussycat
Dolls' "Doll Domination World Tour," "Dancing with the Stars" and more.
Popularity
On December 8, as the proponents of Hallyu Wave, idol group Super Junior was guested in
CNN
TV station’s 《Talk Asia》 program. Members
Siwon
and
Leeteuk
talked about the secret of their huge popularity and their strategy for advancing into the world music industry. [ 97 ] [ 98 ]
Super Junior is receiving attention worldwide. Recently they have
extended beyond Asia, gaining popularity in Bulgaria, Slovenia,
Argentina, Peru, Brazil and various other locations worldwide. In the
year 2010, Peru’s Listas put up the top 30 rankings of
The Sexiest Men in the World , whereby all of the members’ names appeared on the list [ 99 ]
and a Slovenian newspaper also reported about their agency and album
sales. Super Junior also appeared in a publication of a specialty
magazine recently in Iran that contains a personal interview with all
of the Super Junior members and their individual profiles, which is
explained briefly in Persian. [ 100 ]
According to the Korea Cultural Foundation, Super Junior is selected by Brazilian fans as the Korea best group. [ 101 ]
Earlier this year, in a survey conducted by Brazil’s Rede TV, Super
Junior was chosen as the number one Korean singer who should come to
Brazil. The results concluded with Super Junior being the top artist of
choice with 30.9% of the vote. [ 102 ]
They also won "Must-Follow Personality" at the
Mashable Awards
2010 which was held in Las Vegas. Member
Yesung
was the winner of 2010 Cyworld Digital Music Award OST. Recently, Super
Junior was chosen as the most popular Korean singers in a survey
conducted by Mexico's TV Azteca, as well as the various Mexican
communities of this band on the Internet. Also, England’s
BBC
acknowledged Super Junior as the icon noted for creating Hallyu effect. [ 103 ]
Super Junior was picked number one in the survey,
the Hallyu star that you want to travel Korea with .
Super Junior received overwhelming votes from Asia including China,
Taiwan and Southeast Asian countries as well as Europe such as France. [ 104 ]
Subgroups
Since debut, S.M. Entertainment has created four subgroups for Super
Junior. Every member was put into different subgroups excluding
Kibum ,
due to his busy acting schedule. The intentions of the subgroups were
part of SM's strategy to not limit Super Junior's activities, [ 105 ]
and the goal was to show that the group could accommodate different
musical genres. However, this strategy was later challenged by critics,
as it has influenced an overwhelming amount of music groups to create
official and unofficial subgroups alike. [ 106 ]
SM announced that Super Junior will form more subgroups in the future,
and possible focuses of these subgroups include a variety of genres
such as
electropop ,
rock
and
hip hop . [ 107 ]
Previous Super Junior subgroups will also return to the industry along with appearances of new subgroups. [ 107 ]
Super Junior-Happy
Further information:
Super Junior-Happy
Sub- group of Super junior with six members: Leeteuk( leader),
Shindong, Sungmin, Yesung, Eunhyuk, Kangin Album Title: 요리왕 (Cooking?
Cooking!) [Mini Album] Release Date: June 5, 2008
Super Junior-K.R.Y.
Super Junior-K.R.Y. , established in November 2006, is a trio formed by
Kyuhyun ,
Ryeowook , and
Yesung
whose initials make up the K.R.Y. in the title of the group. The
company discovered that these three members developed a particular
personal and subsequent fan-base that was separate from the rest of the
group, and how they also had similar musical qualities. They therefore
grouped these three members together to perform particular songs to
target a more mature audience. Being amongst the most vocally powerful
members of the group, Super Junior-K.R.Y. are credited to singing
mournful, R&B-style ballads, a style that has proven very popular
in recent years.
Super Junior-K.R.Y.'s first official performance was on November 5, 2006 on KBS's
Music Bank , performing "The One I Love (한 사람만을)." [ 108 ]
They have participated in the
original soundtrack
of the tvN drama
Hyena
with a total of three tracks, including the main theme. The trio also
contributed tracks in two additional original soundtracks, one track in
both the soundtracks of
Snow Flower
and
Billy Jean Look at Me .
Unlike Super Junior's other sub-units, Super Junior-K.R.Y. has not
officially released a single or album, and only participated in
collaboration albums and
original soundtracks . However, a new album is expected from KRY in the future. [ 107 ]
On August 1, 2010, Super Junior’s sub-unit KRY. made history by
opening their own concert for the first time in Japan, and upon the
fans’ request for an encore, more performances were added in
Kobe
on the 1st and 2 November and later on, 1 and 2 December in
Fukuoka .
There were about a total of 22,000 people who watched the 6 sessions of
the performances. The group successfully finished their concert tour in
Japan and Taiwan last year. Due to ardent requests from Korean fans
wanting to see Super Junior-K.R.Y.’s concert, the group decided to also
hold the concert in Korea. [ 109 ]
Super Junior-M
Further information:
Super Junior-M
Super Junior-M
was formed to target the
Mandopop
market and debuted in 2008 with seven members: Han Geng (leader),
Siwon, Donghae, Ryeowook and Kyuhyun from Super Junior, plus two new
members added in:
Henry
(a
Chinese Canadian ), and
Zhou Mi .
In December 2009, Han Geng returned to China to pursue a solo career.
In February 2011, Super Junior members Eunhyuk and Sungmin were added
to the subgroup and resumed their activities with the release of EP
Perfection . Currently, the eight active members are: Siwon, Ryeowook, Donghae, Eunhyuk, Kyuhyun, Sungmin, Zhou Mi and Henry.
Super Junior-T
Further information:
Super Junior-Trot
Super Junior-T
was formed to sing Trot ( traditional Korean music) with six members :
Leeteuk (leader), Heechul, Eunhyuk, Kangin, Sungmin, Shindong. Album
Title: 로꾸거 (Rokuko) [Single] Release Date: February 23, 2007
Film and television career
Further information:
Super Junior filmography
Debut
Prior to the group's debut, the members had individually appeared in
television dramas, with Leeteuk being the first member of the group to
act; he was an
extra
as a moviegoer for the drama
All About Eve
in 2000. Kangin appeared as an extra for
The Secret Lovers
in 2002, and Siwon made a brief
cameo appearance
in
Precious Family
in 2004. Kibum had his acting debut in 2004 as young Han Jung-woo in
April Kiss
and in 2005, he was given the main role Joo Yeo-myung for the year-long drama
Sharp 2 , starring alongside
Go Ara
and Heechul. A few months before Super Junior's debut, Siwon starred as the young Kang Bong-man in
Eighteen, Twenty-Nine ; Heechul was given a role as a junior chef in
Loveholic , and Sungmin starred as young Kang Dong-shin in morning drama
Sisters of the Sea . After the group's debut in November 2005, both Heechul and Kibum acted in the sixth season of the
sitcom
Nonstop
from late 2005 to early 2006. Kibum individually starred in
Marrying a Millionaire
as young Kim Young-hoon in 2005 and in March 2006, Heechul starred as Gong Min in
Bad Family . That same year, Siwon was part of the supporting cast for
Spring Waltz
and Kibum starred as Ha Yeongchan in
Snow Flower . In 2007, Heechul starred as Kim Young-soo in the popular drama
Golden Bride ,
which ended its broadcast in February 2008 after the extension of 14
episodes. Siwon starred as the ambitious Lee Mong-ryong in the
two-episode parody historical drama
Legend of Hyang Dan . He later starred as the main character in
Oh My Lady!
oppositte actress
Chae Rim , which received a large audience. Kangin made a cameo appearance in
Billie Jean, Look At Me .
The song "It's Just That", sung by Super Junior-K.R.Y, was used as the
drama's theme song. In 2008, Kibum starred in the sitcom
Chunja's Happy Events
as Park Jung-woo, and Kangin had his first major television role in
Romance Zero
as Na Ho-tae in 2009. In August 2009, Heechul played the piano for Lee Chul in
Loving You a Thousand Times . In 2010, Siwon again appeared in a large supporting role as a data analyst and rookie elite agent in
Athena: Goddess of War , which is a spin-off of the popular 2009 series
Iris . There is speculation that the series will continue and he shall reprise his role, but with more character advances.
In 2011, members Siwon and Donghae were scheduled in April 2011 to film Taiwanese drama
Extravagant Challenge
(traditional Chinese: 華麗的挑戰) with Ivy Chen as the three main characters
(as Ren Tsuruga, Shō Fuwa, and Kyoko Mogami, respectively). It is a
live-action adaptation of the popular Japanese shōjo manga
Skip Beat!
by Yoshiki Nakamura to be shot in Taiwan.
In 2010, Siwon again appeared in a large supporting role as a data analyst and rookie elite agent in
Athena: Goddess of War , which is a spin-off of the popular 2009 series
Iris .
There is speculation that the series will continue and he shall reprise
his role, but with more character advances. On August 1 2011, Siwon has
been confirmed to be the male lead character on a new KBS drama
POSEIDON. According to the production staff, Siwon will take part as a
member of maritime police. POSEIDON will be broadcast in September to
follow up ‘Spy Myeongwol’ as a blockbuster drama which is about the
commitment of maritime police. Siwon has since attended script-reading
sessions and will soon begin filming.
As a group, Super Junior starred in
Super Junior Mini-Drama ,
a television program hosted by the group that was released in late
2006. The group wrote, produced, and acted in the separate half-hour
mini dramas. The subject matters of the dramas were chosen from viewers. [ 110 ] [ 111 ]
In 2008, Leeteuk and Sungmin starred in the one-episode drama act
Super Junior Unbelievable Story . Both Leeteuk and Sungmin starred as themselves as a member of Super Junior-T.
Reality shows
Despite numerous appearances as television actors, Super Junior are
still best known for their reality shows, having participated in
popular reality comedies.
2005:
Super Junior Show
A show documenting them right from when they debuted, demonstrating
their unique talents and abilities along with their funniness and
quirkiness that is never ending.
2006:
Mystery 6
Had
Donghae
as the main character being haunted by ghosts located within the Super
Junior dorm. The show consists of hidden cameras and a narrator that
"documents" their journey throughout each day as Donghae and the rest
of the Super Junior group deal with the strange things that are
happening to them and what also happened to the past tenant of the dorm
they are staying in.
2006:
Super Adonis Camp
Six members of Super Junior ( Leeteuk ,
Kangin ,
Sungmin ,
Donghae ,
Shindong , and
Eunhyuk , with the later addition of
Han Geng , with the last episode also featuring
Ryeowook
and
Yesung )
go to a pension located in the mountains and stay there for about a
week. The boys are split into two teams of three and each team is given
30,000 won (approximately $30 USD) to purchase groceries with. During
their stay at the pension, the boys must live off their groceries and
endure living with a woman who is sort of like the MC for the show,
except the boys find her annoying and do anything try and not pay
attention to anything that she does. In the end, however, they give the
money that they have saved from the leftover food to an orphanage,
where they later visited, where the children that temporarily stayed in
the pension with them are from.
2006:
Super Junior Full House
Super Junior starred in their own reality show called Super Junior
Full House which was about two transfer students who will be boarding
with half of the members of Super Junior, specifically in the dorm
where in Heechul, Kangin, Kibum, Siwon, Han Geng and Donghae are
staying in. The two transfer students were model Eva and her friend
Anya.
The show ran for about 13 episodes and it's running time was only
for 25 minutes. It was aired from May 27, 2006 until August 26, 2006.
The home stay only lasted for a month prior to its original plan and
with the show it presented comedic experiences by Super Junior and the
two international female students showing their deep friendship and
funny attitudes and or personalities.
2006:
Super Junior Mini-Drama
A variety game show where the members of Super Junior (with the exception of
Han Geng ,
Heechul ,
Kibum , and
Siwon ,
who weren't directly in the show but had cameos) could create and
produce their own mini-dramas for themselves to star in. The members
split up into two teams: Prince Team or Pearl Blue Team and play a game
in the beginning of the episode to determine who exactly got the reward
for the drama or who got the punishment.
2007:
MNET Super Summer
A three on one dating game and hidden camera show featuring Siwon,
Donghae, and Kibum. The show documents the member's efforts to win
dates with model Lee Eun Jung through competing in games. The winner of
each episode would get to have a date with the girl, while the other
two men would have their own "man to man" date. The show is meant to
show the "true intentions of men when it comes to love." Lee Eun Jung
and the MC would devise plans to pit the members against each other in
order to reveal their feelings. The show was shot in
Saipan .
2007:
Explorers of the Human Body
A reality learning show, emceed by Shin Dong Yup and, on several
episodes, chosen Super Junior members. It ran for 13 40-minute episodes
from November 11, 2007 to February 3, 2008. The show focused on the
members and Shin Dong Yup performing experiments on various subjects,
such as the sense of taste and the origin of tears. The youngest
member, Kyuhyun, was not present until the seventh episode due to the
accident , as well as Siwon being absent from some of the later episodes due to having injured his foot in an earlier episode.
2007:
KM Idol World
Featuring
Super Junior T ,
Idol world presented each episode with a challenge for the group, going
from a lie detector test, playing the cat and mouse game, even to just
seeing whose friend could show up at the filming location of a house,
even though it was already midnight. The games were a wide variety and
even during the course of the first couple of episodes, Super Junior T
even did a parody of the drama
Princess Hours , which they nicknamed Palace T.
2008:
Unbelievable Outing Season 3
2008:
Idol Show
2009:
Human Network Super Junior's Miracle
The boys of Super Junior have another variety show where they try
to help teenagers, who have hardships going on in their lives,
encouragement to pursue their dreams by finding them a role model that
they may look up to in a career profession that they may want to join.
They show the teenagers that nothing is impossible and that they can do
it, even though it may seem like all of the odds are against them.
2010:
Super Junior's Foresight
A talk show with four or five Super Junior members (with mostly recurring
Leeteuk ,
Shindong ,
Eunhyuk , and
Kyuhyun
with the occasional
Ryeowook
and
Yesung )
where they would invite their sunbaes, or seniors in the music
industry, and try to learn things from them that could help in the
future, also, while having fun at the same time.
Hosting
The Super Junior members were one of the first Korean idols to begin
television presenting and radio hosting. Heechul was the first in the
group to be a selected
MC
for the music programs
Popular Songs
and
Show Music Bank . He was also the first in the group to host radio shows, and co-hosted
Youngstreet Radio Show
with ex- M.I.L.K.
member Park Heebon in early 2005. Heechul has also been the MC for the
Dream Concert since 2008. Leeteuk, Kangin, and Shindong made their MC
debut on Mnet's music program
M! Countdown
five days after Super Junior's debut performance. In August 2006, both Leeteuk and Eunhyuk founded their own radio show,
Super Junior Kiss the Radio , which has become one of the more tuned-in radio channels in the country.
The group also founded their own reality television program, and on November 11, 2007, the premiere of
Explorers of the Human Body
aired on SBS. The humorous show introduced the thirteen members as
regular guests for the program, answering curious questions and doing
demonstrations involving the human body. [ 112 ]
The show has been the highest rating program of the reality line-up
every Sunday, but due to Super Junior's tight schedule, the program
ended quickly with thirteen episodes on February 3, 2008. The
popularity of the program had inspired producers to create a second
season, although no announcements of producing the next season has been
announced. [ 113 ]
Acting
Attack on the Pin-Up Boys
Main article:
Attack on the Pin-Up Boys
Twelve members, excluding Kyuhyun, appeared in the group's debut film
Attack on the Pin-Up Boys . The first film released by SM Pictures, it premiered on July 26, 2007 in Korea. [ 114 ]
"Wonder Boy", performed by Super Junior, is used as the theme song of the film. [ 114 ]
Although the film was promoted as a typical
high school
comedy ,
the movie gained positive reviews from critics, praising that the movie
had a well-oriented plot unlike most idol films. However, ticket sales
remained low in the premiere month despite its unexpected success in
the sales the first week. [ 115 ]
The film was a
box-office bomb , failing to attract more than 102,600 admissions and was proven to be a big loss for SM Pictures. [ 116 ]
However, both versions of the film's
DVD
became a best-selling record and were sold-out in both Korea and
oversea markets, which was more than enough to make up for the
production loss of 8.5 billion won. [ 116 ]
Other Films
Siwon was among the first of Super Junior to have participated in
silver-screen productions, appearing in the Hong Kong historical action
drama film,
A Battle of Wits
as the large supporting role of Prince Liang Shi in 2006. The cast
promoted the movie throughout China with a short tour of four cities in
November 2006. While the film received mixed reviews, Siwon garnered
positive notices for his performance. He also received praises from
co-star
Andy Lau , stating that Siwon is a wonderful actor and that he "sets a good example for young Hong Kong idols."
In 2007, Heechul, Kangin, and Shindong lent their voices to the three chipmunks in the Korean release of
Alvin and the Chipmunks . [ 117 ]
In 2008, Kangin had a major role in the Korean-language film,
Hello Schoolgirl . [ 118 ]
Endorsements
Super Junior members first began endorsing for various fashion lines in early 2006, notably for
Ivy Club
(2006–2007),
NII Qualified
(2007) and
Spris
(2006–2007).
With their high popularity in
Thailand , Siwon was contracted to be the main endorser for
12 Plus Miracle
(2007–present) and began endorsing its products with interchangeable
Super Junior members. Siwon also makes several prominent appearances in
Korean brand Spao's catalogues along with SNSD and other Super Junior
members. He also recently endorsed and modeled for the SK Telesys
"Reaction" smart phone, also appearing in the phone's humorous
mock-action commercial. While, On July 2010, Super Junior's Choi Siwon
was appointed as UNICEF Envoy. Acer Computer Co., Ltd. a leading
position in Thai computer market also presented Siwon as a new endorser
for
Acer
products. He has also been featured in notable magazines such as
Cosmopolitan, Elle, High Cut, and Men's Health, as well as modeling for
large brand names such as Armani, Lacoste, Gucci, and Burberry.
Currently Donghae is the brand ambassador for
Maxim
Colours Contact lens worldwide. The group are also known for their string of humorous commercials for Thailand's
Yamaha
Fino along with several other Thai entertainers, notably
Golf & Mike .
Super Junior were also appointed as the Goodwill ambassadors for the
2008 Korea and Thailand 50th Anniversary, honoring the good
relationship Korea has held with Thailand for the past fifty years. [ 119 ]
Most recently in 2009, Super Junior have filmed CFs for brands such as
Kyochon
Chicken ,
Star Snacks
and
Happy Bubble . They also endorse a clothing line called
SPAO
(2009–present). Super Junior also Spokesmodel for
Donate Blood
(2007–present) campaign at the Republic of Korea National Red Cross and was appointed as Goodwill ambassador for
World Blood Donor Day . They also promote and endorse for Samsung’s marketing of their new smart-phone
Samsung Galaxy S
in Singapore.
Members of sub-group Super Junior-M also starring in commercials for Chinese mobile phones branded
OPPO . They also star in a new commercial show for
Pepsi
and endorse Chinese clothing line
Semir , reflecting their huge popularity in the Chinese region.
On February 20, 2010, Super Junior was named as Taiwan's tourism
ambassador. On March 3, 2011, Super Junior has been appointed by the
Ministry of Food, Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries of Korea as the
2011 Honorary Korean Ambassador Foods
to promote Korean cuisine all over the world. Recently, The Hong Kong
Tourism Board has officially invited Super Junior to host a travel show
promoting Hong Kong. Earlier this year, Super Junior was chosen as the
CF model for Japan's famous convenience store company,
Circle K Sunkus .
On May 16th, the song was shown on major Japanese TV channels as the
commercial song for Japanese convenience store chain Circle K Sunkus. [ 120 ]
On June 17, 2011, Super Junior chosen as the ambassador of
Seoul Summer Sale 2011 . [ 121 ]
Recently, Super Junior has been appointed to be the ambassadors for Korean tourism. [ 122 ]
[ edit ]
Other Media
On July 20, 2010,
S.M. Entertainment , together with NEOWIZ Internet Corporation, Ltd, released an
iPhone
application which features Super Junior's 4th regular album,
'BONAMANA'. The lite app can be
Influence and impact
During the course of Super Junior's career, several pop groups were formed similarly extraordinary numbers of members.
JYP Entertainment
recruited thirteen boys to be in a boy band, who were all revealed in the show,
Hot Blood Men . Of these thirteen, eleven were split into two groups that debuted at different times:
2AM , which has four members, and
2PM , which has seven. [ 124 ]
Together, the two groups form the eleven-member boy band One Day. Ast'1, a boy band under
DSP Entertainment ,
released a promotional video in March 2008. In the short preview the
boy band expressed that they would "Knock Down Super Junior", [ 125 ]
which resulted in a lot of criticism lashed into the group. However,
they clarified that they had no means to create conflict, and explained
the reason why they want to defeat Super Junior is because they see
Super Junior as their answer of success. [ 126 ]
Controversies
Expansion to China
For more details on this topic, see
Super Junior-M .
After the subgroups Super Junior-K.R.Y. and Super Junior-T, on
October 2, 2007, S.M. Entertainment announced the birth of another
Super Junior sub-unit project that would begin activities in China
starting 2008.
Zhou Mi
and S.M. Entertainment's new Chinese-Canadian trainee
Henry Lau , who was also featured in the music video of "Don't Don", were also members of the subgroup. [ 127 ]
The announcement brought in a huge wave of dissatisfaction and
opposition from fans of Super Junior after the announcement of two new
members. Initially, fans were planning to boycott the company's
products, however, most fans agreed on a silent protest instead.
Thousands of fans from Super Junior's official fanclub E.L.F. silently
sat in front of the SM building and held signs that supported the group
to have only thirteen members. [ 128 ]
After more rumors regarding adding a Chinese member to the subgroup,
the fans decided to gain a legal representation as part of S.M.
Entertainment's stockholders. As of March 20, 2008, Super Junior fans
purchased 58,206 stocks of S.M. Entertainment, holding 0.3% of the
company's entire stock. [ 129 ]
They released a statement that they will obtain all chances to prevent
S.M. Entertainment from adding new members and to keep Super Junior as
only thirteen. [ 129 ]
Conflict with MBC
For more details on this topic, see
Kangin .
A time-slot dispute occurred between
S.M. Entertainment
and
MBC
when SM insisted to have Kangin stay on SBS's
Explorers of the Human Body
instead of MBC's
Sunday Night Dong-An Club
(동안클럽) where Kangin has been a regular host. MBC temporarily banned the
rest of Super Junior from appearing in any future performances and
shows hosted by MBC. [ 130 ]
Kangin also lost his MC jobs to
T.O.P.
of
Big Bang
for the music show,
Show! Music Core
and also two more variety shows, which both soon canceled after Kangin left due to low ratings. [ 131 ]
MBC demanded an apology from S.M. Entertainment in order for Super
Junior to appear on shows hosted by the channel again. However, MBC
concluded that Super Junior's ban was never official, but just a
decision for shows' producers to decide. [ 132 ]
Han Geng's lawsuit
For more details on this topic, see
Han Geng .
On December 21, 2009,
Han Geng
filed for contract termination with
S.M. Entertainment ,
label company of the group. The following day, Han Geng's lawyer stated
the claimed reasons behind the action: provisions were in S.M.
Entertainment's favour, unlawful 13-year contract length, unfair sum of
money to end the contract, not allowed to request to revise his
contract, forced to do things that were not in his contract, forced to
do things against his will, fined if he disobeyed the company, missed
any events or even was late, and there was uneven profit distribution.
Along with this, it was disclosed that because of S.M. Entertainment's
refusal to give him a day off in over two years, he had developed
gastritis
and
kidney disease . [ 133 ]
Han Geng's current manager, Sun Le, also submitted a statement to
the court of South Korea citing S.M. Entertainment's violation of Han
Geng's rights. [ 134 ]
Sun Le's statement contended that: Han Geng was forced to wear a mask
due to company's ill handling of the visa issue, company purposely
discriminated against Han Geng and his family, company refused to
cooperate or listen to any of Han Geng's suggestions, company purposely
turned down individual activities for Han Geng (including
Ariel Lin 's
"Fireflies" music video, which later starred Siwon and Donghae) and
that the company treated Han Geng's potential endorsers poorly. [ 135 ]
On December 21, 2010, the Seoul Central District Court ruled in
favor of Han Geng. The court stated, “All three contracts – from the
January 2003 contract, the altered contract from February 2007, and the
affiliated contract from December 2007 – do not exist.” A
representative of S.M. Entertainment said that they will file an
immediate appeal to reverse the decision. [ 136 ]
and have yet to release official statements regarding his status.
Conflict during Expo 2010
On May 26, 2010, organized by South Korea Pavilion of
Expo 2010 ,
many Korean pop stars including Super Junior were invited to the "South
Korean classical and pop concert" which was planned to be launched at
Expo Cultural Centre on May 30. As the tickets were not for sale to the
public, visitors who want to enjoy the show could only exchange the
ticket via expo ticket in the west door of the Expo Cultural Centre on
May 30. The total ticket number is 5000, while 2500 of which would be
assigned to Korea visitors for free which caused the actual available
number to be 2500. Super Junior fans collected in the entry of the Expo
Cultural Centre, and the strong emotion led to the occurrence of
violence, resulting in casualties. A local armed police said that this
is his first time to see such a “crazy” situation in
Expo 2010
since the Expo park was opened. [ 137 ] [ 138 ]
Members
Stage name
Birth name
Chinese name
Registered date of birth
Position
Romanized
Hangul
Romanized
Hangul
Pinyin
Chinese
Leeteuk
이특
Park Jung Soo
박정수
Pǔ Zhèngzhū / Lìtè
朴正洙 / 利特
July 1, 1983
( 1983-07-01 )
(age 28)
Leader, Vocalist , Rapper
Heechul
희철
Kim Hee Chul
김희철
Jīn Xīchè
金希澈
July 10, 1983
( 1983-07-10 )
(age 28)
Vocalist , Rapper
Hankyung
한경
Han Geng
한경
Hán Gēng
韓庚
February 9, 1984
( 1984-02-09 )
(age 27)
Lead Dancer
Yesung
예성
Kim Jong Woon
김종운
Jīn Zhōngyún / Yìshēng
金鐘雲 / 藝聲
August 24, 1984
( 1984-08-24 )
(age 27)
Main Vocalist
Kangin
강인
Kim Young Woon
김영운
Jīn Yīngyún / Qiángrén
金英雲 / 強仁
January 17, 1985
( 1985-01-17 )
(age 26)
Lead Vocalist
Shindong
신동
Shin Dong Hee
신동희
Shēn Dōngxī / Shēndōng or Shéntóng
申東熙 / 申東 or 神童
September 28, 1985
( 1985-09-28 )
(age 25)
Main Dancer, Lead Rapper
Sungmin
성민
Lee Sung Min
이성민
Lǐ Shèngmǐn
李晟敏
January 1, 1986
( 1986-01-01 )
(age 25)
Lead Vocalist, Lead Dancer
Eunhyuk
은혁
Lee Hyuk Jae
이혁재
Lǐ Hèzǎi / Yínhè
李赫宰 / 銀赫
April 4, 1986
( 1986-04-04 )
(age 25)
Main Dancer, Main Rapper, Vocalist
Donghae
동해
Lee Dong Hae
이동해
Lǐ Dōnghǎi
李東海
October 15, 1986
( 1986-10-15 )
(age 24)
Main Dancer, Lead Vocalist, Rapper
Siwon
시원
Choi Si Won
최시원
Cuī Shǐyuán
崔始源
February 10, 1987
( 1987-02-10 )
(age 24)
Vocalist
Ryeowook
려욱
Kim Ryeo Wook
김려욱
Jīn Lìxù
金厲旭
June 21, 1987
( 1987-06-21 )
(age 24)
Main Vocalist
Kibum
기범
Kim Ki Bum
김기범
Jīn Qǐfàn
金起範
August 21, 1987
( 1987-08-21 )
(age 24)
Rapper , Vocalist
Kyuhyun
규현
Cho Kyu Hyun
조규현
Cáo Guīxián
曺圭賢
February 3, 1988
( 1988-02-03 )
(age 23)
Main Vocalist , Lead Dancer
Discography
Further information:
Super Junior discography
Studio albums
SuperJunior05
(2005)
Don't Don
(2007)
Sorry, Sorry
(2009)
Bonamana
(2010)
Mr. Simple / A-Cha
(2011)
Korean Single Album
U
(2006)
Japanese Single Album
美人 (BONAMANA)
(2011.6.8)
Mr. Simple
(2011.12.7)
Live Albums
Super Show Tour Concert Album
(2008)
1st PREMIUM LIVE in Japan
(2009)
Super Show 2 Tour Concert Album
(2009)
Diposkan oleh
yuk satery
di
01.24
Tidak ada komentar:
Kirimkan Ini lewat Email BlogThis! Berbagi ke Twitter Berbagi ke Facebook Bagikan ke Pinterest
Posting Lama
Beranda
Langganan:
Entri (Atom)
Loading...
Loading...
Laman
Beranda
Asia Zone
Mien Ho
Western Zone
Tips
Lyric
Entri Populer
(tanpa judul)
One More Night
oleh: Aaron Carter
KIRIM EMAIL KE TEMA...
(tanpa judul)
Lirik Lagu Wonder Girls - Nobody
You Know I still Love You Baby. And it will never change.
I want nobody nobody But You, I want nobody...
(tanpa judul)
Super Junior
Super Junior
Super Junior performing at...
(tanpa judul)
MBLAQ
MBLAQ
MBLAQ performing at the Cyworld
Dream Music Festival, July 2...
(tanpa judul)
(tanpa judul)
2PM
2PM
Left to right: Chansung, Wooyoung, Nichkhhun, Junho, Jaebeom, Junsu, Taecyeon
Background information
...
(tanpa judul)
My Princess
Details
Title:
마이 프린세스 / My Princess Genre:
Romance, Comedy Episodes:
16 Broadcast network:
MBC Broadcast period:
2...
(tanpa judul)
Arsip Blog
▼
2012
(1)
▼
Februari
(1)
MBLAQ<!-- /firstHeading -->
<!-- bodyContent -->...
►
2011
(9)
►
September
(2)
►
Agustus
(6)
►
Februari
(1)
►
2010
(2)
►
Oktober
(1)
►
September
(1)
what do you think about my blog? please,add your comment...
Pengikut
Template Awesome Inc.. Diberdayakan oleh
Blogger .