KPOP FREAK - Home
Home
KPOP FREAK
mervin jay dela cruz
What is Kpop?
K-pop (an abbreviation of  Korean   pop  or Korean popular music) is a  musical genre  consisting of  electronic ,  hip hop ,  pop ,  rock , and  R&B  music originating in South Korea . In addition to music, K-pop has grown into a popular  subculture  among teenagers and young adults around the world, resulting in widespread interest in the fashion and style of Korean idol groups and singers. Through the presence of  Facebook  fan pages, availability on  iTunes ,  Twitter  profiles, and music videos on  YouTube , the ability of K-Pop to reach a previously inaccessible audience via the  Internet  is driving a paradigm shift in the exposure and popularity of the genre.
And because of my addictiveness to kpop. I have my two favorite kpop group. The GIRLS GENERATION or the SNSD and BIGBANG. Although they are on different company. I love the both group.
Girls Generation
Girls' Generation  is a nine-member South Korean  girl group  formed by S.M. Entertainment  in 2007. The nine members are:  Taeyeon  (Leader),  Jessica ,  Sunny ,  Tiffany ,  Hyoyeon ,  Yuri ,  Sooyoung ,  Yoona  and Seohyun . They are often referred to as  SoShi , or  SNSD , the first of which is an abbreviation and the second, mainly used outside Korea, is an  acronym  of the group's Korean name  So Nyuh Shi Dae . The group has released two Korean full albums, three Korean mini-albums, one Japanese full album and various singles. Their 2009 hit single " Gee " holds the record for being the longest running No.1 song on  KBS 's  Music Bank , having held the No.1 chart ranking for 9 consecutive weeks. Gee was named song of the decade by the Korean music site, Melon. The group also won various awards in 2009 and 2010, including consecutive Artist of the Year (Daesang) awards at the  Seoul Music Awards ,  Golden Disk Awards , Melon Music Awards, and the Korean Cultural Entertainment Awards. The group began a foray into the Japanese music scene in late 2010 under  Nayutawave Records , a part of  Universal Music , with the Japanese remakes of their 2009 Korean hits " Tell Me Your Wish (Genie) " and " Gee ". 2009 saw the group reach considerable success in Korea after winning the prestigious Disk Daesang (Album of the Year), Seoul Music Awards, and Melon Music Awards respectively.
members
taeyeon
Birth name:  Kim Tae-yeon   DOB: March 9, 1989 Birthplace: Jeonju, North Jeolla, South Korea Height: 160cm | Blood type: O Group leader. DJ on Good Friend Radio (Chinhan Chingoo) from 2008 to April 2010. Solo in  If  – drama OST for Hong Gil Dong (2008). Solo in  Can you hear me  – drama OST for Beethoven Virus (2008). Starred in variety show We Got Married (2009) with comedian Jeong Hyeong-don. Duet with Sunny in  It’s Love  – drama OST for Heading To The Ground (2009). Starred in stage musical Midnight Sun (2010). Voiced for animated film Despicable Me (2010). Duet with The One in  Like A Star  (2010). Co-host of variety talk show Win-Win (2010). Solo in I Love You – drama OST for  Athena: Goddess of War  (2010). Duet with Kim Bum-soo in Different (2011).
jessica
Korean name:  Jung Su-yeon   DOB: April 18, 1989 Birthplace: San Francisco, California, USA Height: 163cm | Blood type: B Elder sister of Krystal, member of girl group  f(x) . Released two singles, Oppa Nappa and  Mabinogi , with Tiffany and SeoHyun. Duet with SHINee’s Onew in One Year Later (2008). Duet with Park Myeong-su in  NaengMyun  (2009). Starred in Korean production of Legally Blonde – The Musical (2009-2010). Solo in Sweet Delight – commercial song for SPC Group (2010).
sunny
Birth name:  Lee Sun-kyu   DOB: May 15, 1989 Height: 158cm | Blood type: B Co-DJ of Chun Ji Radio (2007-2008). Solo in Finally Now – movie OST for Story of Wine (2008). Co-host of The M (2009-2010) with SS501′s Hyungjoon and then 2AM’s Seulong. Duet with Taeyeon in  It’s Love  – drama OST for Heading To The Ground (2009). Starred in reality-variety show Invincible Youth (2009-2010). Solo in Your Doll – drama OST for Oh My Lady (2010).
tiffany
Birth name: Stephanie Hwang Korean name:  Hwang Mi-young   DOB: August 1, 1989 Birthplace: Los Angeles, California, USA (but raised in Diamond Bar) Height: 162cm | Blood type: O Released two singles, Oppa Nappa and  Mabinogi , with Seohyun and Jessica. Co-host of Sonyeo Sonyeon Gayo Baekso with Kim Hye-sung (2007-2008). Solo in  By Myself  – drama OST for Ja Myung Go (2009). Duet with K.Will in A Girl Meets Love (2009). Co-host with Yuri for MBC’s Music Core (2009 – July 2010). Solo in Banji – drama OST for Haru (2010).
hyoyeon
Birth name:  Kim Hyo-yeon   DOB: September 22, 1989 Birthplace: Incheon, South Korea Height: 160cm | Blood type: AB Hyoyeon was born in  Incheon ,  South Korea  on September 22, 1989. She is  ambidextrous  and grew up with her parents and her younger brother Kim Min Gu. She auditioned for  SM Entertainment  at the age of 11 through SM 2000 Casting System. Hyoyeon herself said, she had no intentions to audition, but her mother was a fan of SM Entertainment's boy band  H.O.T.  and brought her to the offices in the hopes, perhaps, of seeing them. She then danced in her audition show. In 2004, she was sent to study  Mandarin Chinese  in  Beijing ,  China  alongside with  Choi Siwon . Her Chinese name is 孝渊 (Xiàoyuān) in simplified Chinese characters .
yuri
Birth name:  Kwon Yuri   DOB: December 5, 1989 Height: 167cm | Blood type: AB Played a part in sitcom Unstoppable Marriage (2007) alongside Sooyoung. Duet with Sooyoung in Must – drama OST for Working Mom (2008). Co-host with Tiffany for MBC’s Music Core (2009 – July 2010). Starred in reality-variety show Invincible Youth (2009-2010).
sooyoung
Birth name:  Choi Soo-young   DOB: February 10, 1990 Birthplace: Seoul, South Korea Height: 170cm | Blood type: O Made a brief debut (2002) in Japan as pop duo  Route φ  with Marina Takahashi. Played a part in the sitcom Unstoppable Marriage alongside Yuri (2007). Duet with Yuri in Must – drama OST for Working Mom (2008). Played a part in movie Hello Schoolgirl (2008).
yoona
Birth name:  Im Yoona   DOB: May 30, 1990 Birthplace: Seoul, South Korea Height: 166cm | Blood type: B Played a part in drama 9 Ends 2 Out (2007). Played a part in drama Woman of Matchless Beauty (2008). Starred in drama You Are My Destiny (2008-2009). Starred in drama Cinderella Man (2009). Starred in variety show Family Outing 2 (2010). Solo in Innisfree Day – commercial song for Innisfree (2010).
seohyun
Birth name:  Seo Joo-hyun  (Hangul: 서주현 | Hanja: 徐珠賢) DOB: June 28, 1991 Birthplace: Seoul, South Korea Height: 168cm | Blood type: A Group maknae. Released two singles, Oppa Nappa and  Mabinogi , with Jessica and Tiffany. Duet with trot singer Ju hyun-mi in  JjaRaJaJja  (2009). Starred on variety show We Got Married with C.N.Blue’s Jung Yong-hwa (2010). Solo in It’s Ok Even If It Hurts – drama OST for Kim Soo Roo (2010). Voiced for animated film Despicable Me (2010). Featured in  Let’s Go  – G20 Seoul Summit OST (2010). Solo in Journey – drama OST for Paradise Ranch (2011).
HISTORY OF GIRLS GENERATION
2007: Debut and first album
In July 2007, Girls’ Generation had their first performance on Inkigayo. The song the girls performed was called “ Into the New World ”, which became their first single. A show documenting the girls’ debut titled “ M.Net’s Girls Go To School ” was filmed during this time. This documentary helped the girls appeal to the Korean audience as they rose to controversy. In August 2007, the single “ Into the New World ” was released. This single included two other songs, “Beginning” and “Perfect for You” (Korean: 소원), later the song renamed to “Honey” for their self-titled debut album  Girls’ Generation . An instrumental of “Into the New World” was also included. After a short break, the group’s first full album was released in late autumn 2007, with the lead single “ Girls’ Generation ” (Korean: 소녀시대), a cover of  Lee Seung-Chul  (Korean: 이승철)’s hit. Promotion for the single started in early November. Marked by dance routines and vocals, “Girls’ Generation” was a hit for the group, and the album has sold 121,143 copies to date, placing 8th in the year-end charts. In early 2008, Girls’ Generation began promoting their second single, “ Kissing You “. The music video featured Donghae from  Super Junior . This song achieved the #1 spot in the three main TV music rankings—SBS Inkigayo , M.net  M.Countdown!  and KBS  Music Bank .
2008–2009: Other activities, return with mini-albums
It was announced in autumn 2008 that Girls’ Generation would be starring in a reality show on M.Net. Titled  Factory Girl , the show chronicles the girls working as interns at fashion magazine “ Elle “. The program began airing in early October. During their absence from the music scene, they appeared in many commercials for MapleStory and Mabinogi. It was then announced that the group’s first mini-album,  Gee , would be released in January 2009. A  teaser video  was released in January 2009 and the first single “ Gee ” released soon after. Interest in the song rose after the digital release, topping Cyworld’s hourly music chart on the release day. The song also went #1 on all major digital music charts within two days.
After a short break, SM Entertainment announced that the girls would be back with a new single and showing a “Marine Girl” concept; the song, titled “ Sowoneul Malhaebwa (Genie) , literally “Tell Me Your Wish”), the mini album was released digitally on June 22, 2009. The mini-album includes a duet between Jessica and  Shinee  member Onew called “One Year Later”.On May 3, 2009. Girls Generation was starred in their new reality show “ SNSD Horror Movie Factory “, with the premier episode receiving a viewership rating of 3.3%. The show was then cancelled after 6 episodes due to low ratings.
2010: Second album and other activities
In early 2010, the group was chosen to sing  SBS 's new logo song "Naeireul Bomnida", " Look at Tomorrow "). Later in January, SM Entertainment confirmed the release of  Oh! , the group's second full-length album, released on January 28. The lead single " Oh! ", was digitally released on January 25 with the music video being released two days later. The song proved to be popular topping various charts upon release. On January 30, the group started promotions with the recording of  MBC 's  Show! Music Core .The performance experienced a blackout near the end, to which MBC made the whole performance available online.They also performed "Show! Show! Show!" at their comeback stage.The performance experienced a blackout near the end, to which MBC made the whole performance available online.
Starting from March 11, 2010, photos of the members were released online showcasing a dark concept, named "Black Girls' Generation". A teaser video was released on March 16, with the new single released as a  digital single  on March 17. The music video for " Run Devil Run " was released on March 17. They have conquer many music charts with Run Devil Run.    In August 2010, Girls’ Generation will start promotion in Japan beginning on August 11 with the DVD release “少女時代到来～初来日記念盤～” ( Girls’ Generation’s Arrival ～ First Time in Japan Commemoration Disc ～ ).
big bang
Big Bang  ( Korean : 빅뱅; commonly stylized as  BIGBANG ) is a  South Korean   boy band . The group's formation was chronicled on the television series  Big Bang Documentary , from July to August 2006. The show was also aired online on GomTV and on MTV Korea. [2]  Initially a six-member group, one member,  Jang Hyun-seung  (now a member of  Beast ), got eliminated during the airing of the show before the official debut leading to their current line-up. Signed to  YG Entertainment , Big Bang released several successful singles and  EPs . Their first release, the EP  Always  (2007), spawned the number-one single "Lies" ( Korean : 거짓말;  Revised Romanization :  Geojitmal ). The follow-up EPs  Hot Issue  and  Stand Up  were similarly successful. [4]  After they received the "Artist of the Year" award from the  M.net KM Music Festival  and the Seoul Gayo Daesang Award, the group expanded their activities into Japan, releasing mini-albums and airplay singles. Their materials would not receive major promotion until the following year with the release of their first physical Japanese single, " My Heaven ".
MEMBERS
DAESUNG
Daesung was born in  Itaewon , South Korea and attended high school (KyeongIn High School) but he dropped out and focused more on Big Bang. Then in late 2008, he focused on college entrance exams. He attended Kyunghee University in Seoul and graduated in 2008. Since his debut, he has released solo singles, performed in musicals, acted in a drama  What's Up , and became a member of reality-variety television series  Family Outing  and talk show  Night After Night .
T.O.P.
is a South Korean recording artist and actor. Best known as a member of the Korean boy band Big Bang, he has branched out to act in various dramas and films, including  I Am Sam ,  Iris  and  71: Into the Fire .
TAEYANG
is a  South Korean  recording artist, entertainer. After appearing in Jinusean's music video "A-yo", Taeyang began training under  YG Entertainment  at the age of 12 alongside fellow member and leader  G-Dragon . After six years of vocal and dance training he made his debut in 2006 as a member of  Big Bang .
G.DRAGON
is a  South Korean  recording artist, songwriter, producer and model. He released his debut solo album,  Heartbreaker  (2009), which yielded the number-one  single of the same name . The album went on to become one of the most successful albums of the year, garnering sales of over 200,000 copies and winning the  Mnet Asian Music Awards for Album of the Year .  Heartbreaker also sparked major controversies for the artist, including accusations of plagiarism when one of his songs was deemed to be similar to another artist's. After almost a year of hiatus, G-Dragon and bandmate,  T.O.P  collaborated to record and release the album  GD & TOP  (2010). The album saw the release of three singles: "High High," "Oh Yeah," and "Knock Out," all of which have charted within the top three positions of the Gaon chart, with "High High" becoming a chart-topper.
SEUNGRI
is a South Korean hip hop singer, dancer, actor, record producer and composer. Best known as a member of Korean group  Big Bang . Before joining the group, he was a member of a dance team in  Gwangju . He first appeared on television on the reAlity television series  Let's Cokeplay: M.Net Battle Shinhwa , a show in which  Shinhwa attempted to create a boy band that could be a "second Shinhwa".Although he was noticed for his dance skills, his lack of vocal skills led to him being eliminated. He was later scouted by the record label YG Entertainment and joined the group  Big Bang . Although he was initially cut on the ninth episode of the group's documentary series, he was given another chance to impress  YG Entertainment  CEO  Yang Hyun Suk  and succeeded.
HISTORY OF BIG BANG
Before the group's debut, several members already had exposure in the entertainment industry. Leader  G-Dragon  and lead vocalist  Taeyang  were signed with  YG Entertainment  since they were both 12 years old (13 years old in Korean Age) , were known as GD and YB.  T.O.P  was an underground rapper under the stage name Tempo. Big Bang made their debut on August 19, 2006 at the Gymnastics Arena in Seoul Olympic Park during the YG Family concert. Following the performance, the group's first single, " Bigbang ", was released. It contained the songs "We Belong Together," featuring labelmate  Park Bom ; "A Fool's Only Tears" and "This Love", an adaptation of the  American  rock band Maroon 5   song , rewritten and performed by G Dragon. On February 8, 2007, Big Bang released their live concert album,  The First / Real Live Concert , which sold 30,000 copies by the end of the year. The group also began their  Want You  tour, visiting five cities:  Incheon ,  Daegu ,  Changwon ,  Jeonju  and  Busan . Their first mini-album,  Always , was also released in 2007, and marked several changes for the group. Though previously already writing and composing, the group has decided to take more control over their music. G-Dragon composed and wrote most of the tracks included in their first mini album release including the title single, "Lies" (Korean: 거짓말; Revised Romanization:  Geojitmal ). The mini-album also saw the introduction of  electronic music  for Big Bang. Receptions were fairly positive, most notably in regards to the song "Lies", which critics described as "through the roof". Released as the lead single, it became their first #1 hit; the album itself sold 87,0000 copies. Their second mini album,  Hot Issue , released that same year, followed its predecessor's success: the lead-single, "Last Farewell", (Korean: 마지막 인사; Revised Romanization:  Majimak Insa ) topped various charts, including the Juke-On's chart for eight consecutive weeks. It also won the "Song of the Month Digital Music Award" from  Cyworld . Tickets for their  Big Bang Is Great  concert were also reportedly sold out in 10 minutes. "Lies" (2007) Big Bang took a new direction with the release of their song "Lies" by incorporating electronic music  into their style. The song eventually became their break-out hit. "Haru Haru" (2008) "Haru Haru", which continued the group's experimentation with electronic, went on to become one of their strongest singles, topping the charts for six consecutive weeks. Problems listening to these files? See  media help . Near the end of 2007, it was reported that members of the band were hospitalized from over-performing and exhaustion,halting their promotional activities. Reports were later released that Big Bang's albums and singles were in high demand, causing the record company to reprint and repackage them for re-release. Riding on the success of their mini-album, the group collected numerous awards towards the end of the year, including "Best Male Group" and "Song Of The Year" from the 2007 M.NET/KM Music Festival. They later received the "Artist of the Year" award from the 17th Seoul Music Awards.The group earned a total of  ₩ 12 billion ( USD$ 10.6 million) at the end of the year.
2009–present: Solo activities and comeback
With the group on break in early 2009, the members pursued solo activities. They later reunited to collaborate with their label's new girl group  2NE1 , who had been dubbed "The Female Big Bang" for the song " Lollipop ". A music video was also filmed for promotion. Initially used to promote a cell phone, "Lollipop" reached the number one spot on various online charts.Their first  self-titled full-length Japanese album  was released under  Universal Music  in August 2009 and was promoted with two singles: " My Heaven " and " Gara Gara Go!! " (ガラガラ GO!! ? ). "My Heaven", a Japanese translation of their Korean single, "Heaven", (Korean: 천국; Revised Romanization:  Cheonguk ) from  Stand Up , was composed by Japanese composer  Daishi Dance , and debuted at #3 on the Oricon Chart. "Gara Gara Go!" charted at #5.The album itself peaked at #3.After nearly two year hiatus as a full group, Big Bang returned to South Korea with their 2011 Big Show concert.They also showcased songs from their latest EP  Tonight , which went on to become a chart-topper upon its release on many Korean music chart. The album also became the first K-pop album to reach the top 10 on US iTunes chart and is the only non-English language album in the top 100. The album had a pre-sale order of 10,000 copies in Cyworld, beating the record set by  TVXQ 's 6,500 copies back in 2008. Overall reception for the EP has been positive, with Choi Jun of Asiae complimenting the group's new direction in their music, acknowledging that during the two years hiatus, the group's "style and musical sensibility [had] deepened." Seven days after the album's release, it was reported that Big Bang had already earn  ₩ 7 billion ( USD$ 6.2 million). In a week, 100,000 album copies were sold. Its lead-single of the name became a chart-topper on the  Gaon Chart . The second single, "Love Song", also proved to be favorable; the music video on  YouTube  gained 2 million views within two days. The group kicked off their Love & Hope Tour in May. According to some people, Daesung's accident happened to cause a delay to their next comeback album and the group decided to wait till Daesung can come back on stage.
And that's it. They are my favorite        korean groups. I idolized them so much. And i believed that someday I will be like                               them.
Thanks for visiting my site :)           MERVIN JAY DELA CRUZ
Create a
free website
Powered by
Create your own free website
Start your own free website
A surprisingly easy drag & drop site creator.
Learn more.
✕