Mears Spitfire
Mears Spitfire
SUPERMARINE
SPITFIRE BEING BUILT BY BOB MEARS, POWERED BY A MAZDA 20B 3-ROTOR WANKEL.
THESE LINKS WILL DOCUMENT THE CONSTRUCTION.
Work
Log 5 UPDATED 06/13/2011
All
New Pics on the Final Progress Page... Updated 06/13/2011 Button added for First Start Video!!!!
Button added for
Brake Test Video
First
Taxi Video!!!!
Gettin' closer all the time......
This
article appeared in the EAA magazine.
Rotary Power
Bob Mears' triple-rotor Mazda
20B-powered Supermarine Spitfire
Bob Mears, EAA 748232
BMears9413@aol.com
I’ve studied article after article about putting rotary
engines in airplanes. They usually starts with something
like, “Why I chose a rotary engine to put in my plane.” With
me it was a bit different; my situation was more like, “What
plane will I choose to put a rotary engine in?”
I’ve messed with rotary engines for 30 years. I raced
them in dirt cars, drag cars, SCCA cars, model airplanes,
and go-karts. I was a hard-core Chevy guy when I was young
and doing some drag racing. Then I went to work for the
local Mazda dealer. The first time I disassembled a rotor
motor I was in love. I wondered why in the world I had been
messing with all those parts. My brother and I immediately
built an RX-2 for the drag strip. We wowed everyone with its
wheel-standing launches, unbelievable noise, and low engine
temperatures. Later we built a
Cosmo
for the dirt track. We won so many races the
tracks banned rotaries from racing. So we built SCCA cars,
RX-3, RX-4, and a rotary truck. (It’s amazing how you can
make a truck handle). Later it was back to the drag strip
with another RX-3, an RX-7, and a dragster, all
supercharged.
All that time I wondered why no one had put these engines
in airplanes. As I got older and gave up the racing scene, I
always thought I would build an airplane with a Mazda rotary
and wow the world with this new innovative idea. Mind you
I’m not a pilot, and I don’t hang around with the airplane
crowd. So about four years ago I decided to enlighten the
world with my fantastic idea. I hit the Internet for some
research about experimental aircraft.
Holy Wankel,
Batman!
These rotor motors are being used all over the
place! Who knew? Then I find
Tracy Crook’s website
(noted rotary guru) and discovered
he manufactures most of the parts I needed for my venture. I
got really excited.
During all those years of racing I tried and tried to get
Mazda to help me get a three-rotor engine here in the United
States to race with (the engine is popular in Japan and
Europe, but was never installed in a car destined for the
U.S.). It never happened. Now I go to eBay, and there they
are! Let’s find a plane! Being that I’m determined to have
something different, I found a
Supermarine Spitfire . All metal, 80 percent scale, and
perfect for a 20B. The kit was delivered, and at that time
it was only one of two here in the States, and I got started
on it.
The fuselage freshly uncrated, as shipped from
Queensland, Australia.
I purchased a 20B on eBay and was anxious to begin
dismantling it; years of anticipation came to a head the day
I took delivery of it—a dream realized from those racing
years, and now it was in my garage. It was a lot of fun to
overhaul the 20B since I hadn’t even looked inside a rotor
motor in 15 years. I was worried about splitting the shaft,
but it was a nonevent. The engine was so nice inside that I
almost hated to take it apart.
The Wankel engine is elegant in its simplicity.
Who would suspect that 280 hp could be derived
dependably from such a compact box with so few moving parts?
I debated over the
porting
options I was going to choose since I tried so
many different ones over the years, with varying results.
One of my favorites was a P-port with working side ports,
but the intake manifold is a real bugger to make. Since the
Spitfire was designed for the eight-cylinder 5,100 cc
Jabiru
engine, rated at 180 hp, I decided to go with
just a mild street port designed for a naturally aspirated
induction system, and shooting for about 280 hp should be
ample.
Custom aluminum intake runners and plenum for the
three-rotor 20B.
Progress has been steady on both the airframe and engine.
The
first start
of the engine was on February 1, 2008.
Initial run-ups have been pleasing and satisfying, but not
without some minor hiccups. I’m certainly worried about
noise as I had to replace the floor in our RX-3, three times
a year; the exhaust noise would sonically destroy the floor
boards. I sure hope it don’t destroy my aluminum airplane!
Tracy Crook and the gang at the FlyRotary e-mail group ( www.FlyRotary.com
and
http://Mail.LancairOnline.net:81/Lists/flyrotary/List.html )
have been very supportive and helpful. It’s fantastic having
the Internet for information. I’ve read every rotary site I
can find.
John Slade’s
site (also see
CONTACT!
Magazine’s
issue #87) really got me
excited. And I really liked how John wrote his experiences
in a blow-by-blow story. So I did my
web page
the same way.
I’ve since joined EAA and have been to Sun ’n Fun and the
Rotary Roundup in Texas. My excitement level is still high,
but my time schedule is just as tight, so I’m not moving at
the pace I would like to. And somewhere I must find the time
to take flying lessons.
First
pic of Builder/Future Pilot - Bob Mears in the cockpit!
Team Supermarine:  Michael O'Sullivan, Owner of Supermarine and
sidekicks, George and Clint.  Assisting the U.S. project in Lubbock,
TX.