Top Models Of The World
Top Models Of The World
Let's face it. The clients, especially the blue chip ones are the stars of fashion now and it's their choices, selections and bookings that make and break models today.
Postări populare
Claudia Schiffer
Claudia Schiffer
(born 25 August 1970) is a German model
and occasional actress, who reached the peak of her popularity during the 1990s, ...
Marisa Lee Miller
Marisa Lee Miller
(born August 6, 1978) is an American
model
best known for her appearances in the Sports Illustrated
Swimsuit Issues , ...
Gisele Bündchen
Bündchen was born in the Brazilian town of Três de Maio
and grew up in Horizontina , Rio Grande do Sul .
She is of German and Portuguese d...
marți, 2 noiembrie 2010
Marisa Lee Miller
Marisa Lee Miller
(born August 6, 1978) is an
American
model
best known for her appearances in the
Sports Illustrated
Swimsuit Issues , and her work for
lingerie
retailer
Victoria's Secret . After a stint shooting with photographer
Mario Testino
for fashion magazines like
Vogue , Miller began working for both companies in 2002. In 2007, she became a
Victoria's Secret Angel , and graced the
cover
of the 2008
Sports Illustrated
Swimsuit Issue to record-setting numbers. Her accomplishments have led to her being dubbed the "return of the great American
supermodel ."
She is also known for contracts with companies like
Harley-Davidson , for whom she is the first spokesperson in the history of the company. Miller is considered a
sex symbol ; she ranked #1 on
Maxim
magazine's 2008 "Hot 100" list and in
FHM ' s global 2010 "Sexiest Women in the World" poll. Aside from modeling, she is an ambassador for the
American Cancer Society .
Early life
Born
Marisa Lee Bertetta
in
Santa Cruz ,
California , to parents Marc and Krista Bertetta. Miller attended high school at Aptos High and
Monte Vista Christian School . She considered herself a tomboy growing up, with mostly male friends and little awareness of anything girly.
Out of shyness, she often wore large t-shirts to hide her body and
would get fully dressed just to go to the trash-can while at the beach.
Miller was first "discovered" at age sixteen walking through a
San Francisco
café by two Italian modeling agents.
After talking to her mother, she was on a plane to Italy with her
mother a few months later, despite her "shy and conservative"
personality. Miller gained attention in 1997 when she appeared in the first issue of
Perfect 10
magazine. Although she came in third behind Ashley Degenford and Monica Hansen in
Perfect 10
magazine's first annual model search,
she was repeatedly showcased in following issues, including the covers
of the Winter 1998 and August/September 1999 editions, as well as a
reprint for the Fall 2004 edition cover.
Career
Miller moved from a start as an amateur magazine model to high
profile mainstream work after an acquaintance showed a picture of her to
famed fashion photographer
Mario Testino
in 2001. Testino asked to meet Miller, who was running a surf school at the time, and was invited to
Manhattan Beach, California , where she would be surfing.
Noticing her, Testino snapped pictures of her and approached her with
a job offer. It turned out to be editorials for both the American and
Italian editions of
Vogue . Within six months, Miller was working for
Victoria's Secret
and the coveted
Sports Illustrated
Swimsuit Issue , in which she appeared in every issue from 2002 to 2008. In particular, she famously posed wearing only an
iPod
in the 2007 issue. She has also appeared in a diverse range of magazines, many of them international editions, such as
GQ ,
Maxim ,
Glamour ,
Cosmopolitan ,
Marie Claire ,
Elle , and
Vanity Fair ,. She has featured in advertisements for
Nordstrom ,
J.Crew ,
Guess? ,
Tommy Hilfiger ,
Bath & Body Works , and
True Religion
jeans.
Miller backstage at the
Fashion for Relief
show, a charity event in aid of victims of
Hurricane Katrina .
It was not until 2007 that she filmed her first
television commercial
for Victoria's Secret, appearing alongside
Heidi Klum
for the
It
bra.
On December 4, 2007, Miller made her debut in the
Victoria's Secret Fashion Show , and opened a segment in the following year's edition. Other runway credits of Miller's include 2007's
Fashion for Relief
show, benefiting victims of
Hurricane Katrina , as well as
MTV 's
Fashionably Loud ,
Imitation of Christ , Inca, and
Amir Slama 's Rosa Cha, for which she was one of the most anticipated models.
On the February 12, 2008 episode of
The Late Show with David Letterman , it was revealed via a three-story billboard in
New York City
that Miller would grace the cover of that year's
Sports Illustrated
Swimsuit Issue . The tandem online launch of the issue drew record page views to the SI website: 228 million, a 41% increase over 2007. In September 2008, Sports Illustrated released a "Best of Marisa Miller" swimsuit calendar for the 2009 year.
Victoria's Secret also put her to work in 2008, with a five-city tour to promote the 2008
Swim
collection's release in stores; the April–May tour included stops in New York City,
Miami ,
Chicago
(where she threw the opening pitch at a
Chicago Cubs
baseball game),
Boston , and
Minneapolis . The relaunch of Victoria Secret's sports line,
VSX , soon followed, along with her first official campaign as an Angel: promoting the company's fragrance
Very Sexy Dare .
For the 2009 Victoria's Secret Fashion Show, Miller was chosen to wear the year's " Fantasy Bra ," a harlequin design featuring 2,300 white, champagne, and cognac
diamonds , and a 16- carat
heart-shaped brown-yellow diamond pendant for a $3-million value and 150 total carats.
Damiani , the designer of the bra, went on to feature it at
BaselWorld
2010.
In response to claims that Miller had parted with Victoria's Secret in January 2010, the Chief Marketing Officer for
Limited Brands
responded, saying the claims were "unfounded and untrue" while adding
"we adore Marisa and we will continue to work with her in the future."
Beyond modeling
In a July 2010 interview with
Forbes ,
Miller stated that because the fashion industry had changed, with
celebrities supplanting models on magazine covers and in campaigns,
supermodels
have to become brands to be successful. For that reason, she shifted focus to
consumer products
reflective of her personality. In July 2008, Miller took her first step
beyond modeling when her shoe line with skateboarder/surfer-oriented
company
Vans
launched. Miller starred in a 2008
viral video
on
YouTube
with
All Star
baseball player
Ryan Braun
for
Remington 's ShortCut hair clippers In 2010, she designed and released a
paddle board
line with
Surftech
aimed at female riders.
In 2008, Miller became the first spokesperson in motorcycle manufacturer
Harley-Davidson 's one-hundred-year history. She first partnered with Harley to launch the
VRSCF V-Rod Muscle
motorcycle and rejoined the company in November 2009 to act as the face
of their first "Military Appreciation Month" campaign, featuring Miller
as a classic
pin-up
in military-themed advertisements and online content.
2010 found her again working for the company, this time for their
"Start Something" campaign, encouraging dreamers to become new riders.
Miller will also represent the
rum
brand
Captain Morgan
as the company's "Official First Mate" in advertising, social responsibility communication, and event appearances.
In October 2010, the
NFL
announced Miller had been hired as a spokesperson for the
2010-2011 season , with duties including hosting the
NFL International Series
game between the
San Francisco 49ers
and
Denver Broncos
in
London .
The announcement drew accusations toward the league of sending a "mixed
message" in hiring a well-known lingerie and swimsuit model on the
heels of controversies over reporter
Ines Sainz 's treatment at the
New York Jets ' facilities and the messages and photos
Brett Favre
allegedly sent
Jenn Sterger .
New York Times
columnist
William C. Rhoden
noted that "Miller reveals a lot of flesh in the N.F.L. advertisements
featuring her. This is Miller’s business, but it shouldn’t be the
N.F.L.’s."
Television
Miller's first work in television was as a judge on the
Bravo
reality series
Manhunt: The Search for America's Most Gorgeous Male Model
in 2004, the same year she appeared in
Puddle of Mudd 's "Spin You Around" music video. 2007 brought appearances in the pilot episode and finale of
VH1 's reality show
The Shot
and cameos in
HBO 's
Entourage
and the
CBS
comedy
How I Met Your Mother , the latter with her fellow Victoria's Secret Angels. In 2009, she had a guest judge role on
an episode
of
America's Next Top Model
and a minor role in
an episode
of
Gary Unmarried ; in 2010, she co-hosted an episode of
GameTrailers TV with Geoff Keighley .
In addition to her commercials for Victoria's Secret, she has appeared in commercials for the
NFL Network
and the California Travel and Tourism Commission's "Visit California" campaign. Miller's 2008 commercial for
Activision 's
Guitar Hero: World Tour
was deemed too racy to air.
Miller is developing an unscripted television show to be focused on the military.
Media recognition
The swell in publicity resulting from her 2008 work served to land Miller in the number one spot on
Maxim
magazine's "Hot 100" rankings for 2008, beating out list regulars such as
Scarlett Johansson ,
Jessica Biel , and
Eva Longoria-Parker . This marked the first time anyone has debuted on the list in the number one position. In her subsequent cover story for the July issue,
Maxim
proclaimed her as the "return of the great American supermodel." Of
such acclaim, Miller admits, "I get a kick out of it, but it would be
stupid to let it go to my head. It’s modeling—I didn’t find the cure for
cancer." Miller continued to be highly rated and appeared on the list in 2009 in 18th place, and in 2010 in 10th place.
She also finished first place in
The Best Damn Sports Show Period
"Smokin' Sixteen" competition in 2008, repeating her 2007 win over competitors such as
Gisele Bündchen
and
Adriana Lima . Miller ranked second in
AskMen.com 's
"Top 99" for 2010, after ranking third in 2009, ninth in 2008, twelfth
in 2007, and fourteenth in 2006. She added to her popular accolades with
the "Hot N' Fresh" award at the second annual
Spike Guys' Choice Awards .
In 2010, Miller came in third in
FHM
magazine's UK edition of the 16th annual "Sexiest Women in the World" poll, placing behind actress
Megan Fox
and winner, British singer
Cheryl Cole .
Miller topped the poll in the US edition of FHM and was declared the
global winner of the poll, receiving the most combined votes from
FHM' s 24 international editions.
Personal life
She married Jim Miller, a Los Angeles surfing contest promoter and lifeguard from California in 2000. The couple separated in 2002, they divorced soon after. She married
music producer
Griffin Guess
on April 15, 2006.
From an early age she loved
surfing
and her aunt was on the pro tour. In 2004, she placed second in the celebrity division of the
Kelly Slater
Surf Invitational and says of the sport, "I feel my absolute best—physically, mentally and spiritually—when I'm surfing every day." She also won the most valuable player award at the 4th annual
Celebrity Beach Bowl . She was a standout
volleyball
player in high school and has taken up boxing. After signing with Harley Davidson, Miller received her motorcycle license and rides a Harley
Nightster . She has said that she would like to be a
sportscaster .
Miller comes from a family of nurses, her mother went back to college
late in life to become a pediatrics nurse and her sisters are also
nurses, and she has previously expressed an interest in following the
same career path if she stops modeling.
As of 2009, Miller is an ambassador for the
American Cancer Society . Proceeds from her online store are donated to the charity. She also supports the
Young Survival Coalition , which raises awareness of
breast cancer
in women under 40, as well as environmental organization the
Surfrider Foundation , which aims to preserve the world's oceans and beaches. In October 2009, Miller hosted the Monte Foundation music festival, an annual fundraiser for schools in the
Aptos
area, where she and Guess own a home.
Publicat de
Alex
la
02:40
Niciun comentariu:
Trimiteți
prin e-mail
Postaţi pe blog! Distribuiţi pe Twitter Distribuiţi pe Facebook Trimiteți către Pinterest
Claudia Schiffer
Claudia Schiffer
(born 25 August 1970) is a German
model
and occasional actress, who reached the peak of her popularity during the 1990s, initially due to her resemblance to
Brigitte Bardot . Schiffer is one of the world's most successful models, having appeared on over 500 magazine covers.
Forbes
estimated her net worth at about
$ 55m ( £ 38m).
Background Schiffer was born in
Rheinberg ,
North Rhine-Westphalia , West Germany, a small town 15 km northeast of
Duisburg . She is the daughter of Gudrun and Heinz Schiffer, a
lawyer . She has two brothers, Stefan and Andreas, and one sister, Ann Carolin.
Schiffer said that she was popular in high school, but felt socially overshadowed by the other girls in her class.
She has revealed that because she was so tall, she became very shy and
did not want to be noticed. She was also subjected to jealousy by others
as she came from a wealthy family that was well-known locally. Schiffer became fluent in English and French.
She originally wanted to become a lawyer and used to work in her father's
law firm . She later dropped these aspirations when, in October 1987 at seventeen, she was spotted in a nightclub in
Düsseldorf
by Michel Levaton, the boss of Metropolitan Model Agency who signed her up to become a model.
Modelling and fashion
At the
César Awards
in Paris, 1993
At the
2007 Cannes Film Festival She completed her education and then began to work as a model. She flew out to
Paris
for a trial photo shoot and soon after she appeared in the cover of French
Elle , after being well received in Paris. After several other magazine appearances, she quickly achieved " supermodel " status when she was selected by
Karl Lagerfeld
to become the new face of
Chanel .
Schiffer went on to become world-famous, recognizable with her blue
eyes, blonde hair and tall figure, standing at 1.80m (approx. 5 ft
11 in.).
In the early 1990s, she starred in highly publicised
Guess?
jeans adverts in North America which created essential publicity for Schiffer.
Paul Marciano said in E! Forbes Top 15 Supermodel Beauties Who Made
Bank, "Guess name became really much more known around the world because
[of] Claudia". Soon after appearing in the campaigns, her name was
launched worldwide, appearing on five magazine covers in the United
States and seven covers around Europe. Schiffer joined Thomas Zeumer's
Metropolitan Models [ 9 ]
and was contracted to model for
Revlon . She also became involved in modelling for several catalogues. Schiffer has done catwalk modelling for
Versace ,
Jil Sander ,
Dolce & Gabbana ,
Ralph Lauren
and
Valentino . Schiffer as the first model to make the covers of
Vanity Fair ,
Rolling Stone ,
The New York Times
and
People . She has also appeared many times on covers of
Vogue ,
Harper's Bazaar ,
Cosmopolitan ,
Tank Magazine
and
Time .
Schiffer has also been the face of Spanish clothes store,
Mango
and
Accessorize , where she had her ears pierced especially for her Autumn/Winter 2006 Accessorize advertising campaign in 2006. Schiffer still holds a contract with
L'Oréal
and
Ebel
watches, and her billboard picture for Kenar has also hung over millions of tourists at
Times Square . Since 1990, she has created a
swimsuit
calendar each year which she stars in and designs herself.
Schiffer later appeared in advertisements for
Pepsi , and has danced with a cartoon version of
Mickey Mouse
in advertisements promoting
Fanta
for an estimated $2 million. From her appearances in a 1998
Citroën
advertisement, she earned a reputed £3 million. Karl Lagerfeld filmed her for a
Dom Perignon
campaign, some ten years after her first appearances in Chanel adverts.
She is signed to several agencies, including 1/One Management in New York City,
Simon Fuller 's
19 Entertainment
in London for her non modelling interests, and her mother agency 'Model Management' in
Hamburg .
Media appearances Schiffer has appeared in a number of films and music videos. Her first appearance in film was in the children's movie
Richie Rich
in 1994 and then starred opposite
Dennis Hopper
and
Matthew Modine
in
The Blackout . She went on to appear in
Friends & Lovers
and
Black and White
in 1999,
In Pursuit
and
Life Without Dick
in 2001, and then
Love Actually
in a semi-cameo role. Schiffer has made several other cameo appearances in films, including
Ben Stiller 's
Zoolander
in 2001.
Schiffer has appeared on several talk shows and sitcoms, such as
Larry King Live ,
The Late Show with David Letterman ,
Late Night with Conan O'Brien ,
Dharma & Greg
and
Arrested Development . She was also in
boyband
Westlife 's music video for " Uptown Girl ", and made a cameo in
Bon Jovi 's video for " Say It Isn't So ". [ citation needed ]
She has released four exercise videos, entitled
Claudia Schiffer's Perfectly Fit , which were successful and reached the bestsellers list. Schiffer has hosted the French Fashion Awards and the
World Music Awards
in
Monaco .
With fellow models
Christy Turlington ,
Naomi Campbell , and
Elle Macpherson , Schiffer was joint owner of a chain of restaurants called the Fashion Café in 1995. Schiffer remains a prominent figure in German society and helped present and carry the trophy with
Pelé
during opening ceremonies at the
2006 World Cup . She also presented
Prince William
with a
polo
trophy in 2002.
When talking about the model profession at present, she said:
"Supermodels, like we once were, don't exist any more." She has said
that
Gisele Bündchen
was the only person who comes close to earning the supermodel title.
Personal life
Schiffer in 2009 Schiffer dated magician
David Copperfield
for about five years from 1994 until 1999.
They first met in 1993 at one of Copperfield's stage shows, where he
invited her on stage to take part in his 'Flying' illusion, and he then
subsequently
sawed her in half
during a joint appearance on German television.
Throughout their relationship, she often joined Copperfield in his
stage shows as a "special guest assistant" in a number of illusions,
including being levitated,
guillotined
and sawed in half. Following the end of her relationship with Copperfield, she had a relationship with Tim Jefferies.
On 25 May 2002, she married the
film producer
Matthew Vaughn
in
Suffolk . Instead of an
engagement ring , Vaughn bought her a
tortoise . On her wedding day, many journalists and 200 onlookers gathered to see her in her
wedding dress . She was married in St. George's church in the village of
Shimpling . The wedding reception was held at Schiffer's
Elizabethan
mansion.
Schiffer and Vaughn have three children: son Caspar Matthew Drummond (born 30 January 2003,
Westminster , London), daughter Clementine Drummond (born 11 November 2004, Westminster), and a second daughter, Cosima Violet (born 14 May 2010). The family lives in London. During her spare time, Schiffer enjoys
horse riding , painting, playing tennis and skiing.
Schiffer had two significant problems with
harassment
in the past. In 2002, an Italian kitchen
porter
was arrested after making nine visits to Schiffer's £5 million
Suffolk
mansion near
Bury St Edmunds , attempting to see her. Charges against him were dropped however, as he was
sectioned
under the
Mental Health Act . He believed that the
Pope
had told him to marry Schiffer.
In 2004, a Canadian man was accused of harassing Schiffer, also at her
mansion in Suffolk. He called at her mansion in the hope of seeing her. He also repeatedly left letters at her home.
Publicat de
Alex
la
02:34
Niciun comentariu:
Trimiteți
prin e-mail
Postaţi pe blog! Distribuiţi pe Twitter Distribuiţi pe Facebook Trimiteți către Pinterest
Gisele Bündchen
Bündchen was born in the Brazilian town of
Três de Maio
and grew up in
Horizontina ,
Rio Grande do Sul .
She is of German and Portuguese descent from both her parents, Vânia
Nonnenmacher, a bank clerk pensioner, and Valdir Bündchen, a university
teacher and writer. She has five sisters — Raquel, Graziela, Gabriela,
Rafaela and her
fraternal twin
Patrícia, Gisele's junior by five minutes. Bündchen is
Roman Catholic
and speaks Portuguese as her native language. She also speaks Spanish and English.
“
I was born in Horizontina, a
town in the back-country of (Brazilian) state Rio Grande do Sul. The
town was once mainly colonized by Germans. In the school which I
attended, learning German was actually obligatory from third grade on.
But being out of touch with the language for such a long time, I
unfortunately forgot it. [...] I belong to the sixth generation of my
family in Brazil. Modeling career Originally, Bündchen wanted to be a professional
volleyball
player and considered playing for the Brazilian team, Sogipa. While in
school, Bündchen was so thin that her friends used to call her "Olívia
Palito" (Portuguese for
Olive Oyl ,
Popeye 's skinny girlfriend) and "Saracura" (a type of Brazilian
shorebird ).
In 1993, a then-13-year-old Bündchen joined a modeling course with her sisters Patrícia and Gabriela at her mother's insistence.The following year, Bündchen went to
São Paulo
on a school excursion to give them an opportunity to walk in a big city. In a
shopping mall , while eating at
McDonald's
with her friends, Bündchen was discovered by a modeling agency. She was
subsequently selected for a national contest, Elite Look of the Year,
in which she placed second — Claudia Menezes, from
Bahia , took first place. Bündchen placed fourth in the world contest, held in
Ibiza , Spain. In 1996, Bündchen moved to New York City to begin her modeling career, debuting at
Fashion Week .
Gisele Bündchen on the Fashion Rio Inverno 2006, January 30, 2006 She appeared on the cover of Vogue in July, November and December 1999. She won the
VH1 / Vogue
Model of the Year for 1999, and a January 2000 cover gave her three consecutive
Vogue
covers and in December 2009 she appeared alongside of her husband
Tom Brady
on the cover of book
The World in Vogue – People, Parties, Places . In 2000, she became the fourth model to appear on the cover of the music magazine
Rolling Stone , when she was named "the most beautiful girl in the world." Bündchen has been on the covers of many top fashion magazines including
W ,
Harper's Bazaar ,
ELLE ,
Allure , international editions of
Vogue , as well as style and lifestyle publications such as
i-D ,
The Face ,
Arena ,
Citizen K ,
Flair ,
GQ ,
Esquire , and
Marie Claire .
She has been featured both in the
Pirelli Calendar
2001 and 2006 and in broader market publications such as
Time ,
Vanity Fair ,
Forbes ,
Newsweek
and
Veja , more than 500 magazine covers throughout the world.
Bündchen consistently works with acclaimed photographers such as
Mario Testino ,
Steven Meisel ,
Nick Knight ,
Mert and Marcus ,
Rankin ,
Annie Leibovitz ,
Karl Lagerfeld ,
Peter Lindbergh ,
David LaChapelle ,
Mario Sorrenti ,
Nino Muñoz
and
Patrick Demarchelier , and with renowned directors such as
Jean Baptiste Mondino
and
Bruno Aveillan . [ citation needed ]
In the December 2005 issue,
New York
magazine chose and
publicized a list of 123 reasons to love New York City with reason
number 43 being that Gisele Bündchen lived there.
Claudia Schiffer
said: "Supermodels, like we once were, don't exist any more" and
reckoned that Gisele Bündchen was the only one close to earning the
supermodel title.
Naomi Campbell
said: "Models need to earn their stripes - I just think the term is used a little too loosely.
Kate Moss
is obviously a supermodel but, after Gisele, I don’t think there’s been one."
On August 26, 2008, the New York
Daily News , in a list, named Bündchen the fourth-most-powerful person in the fashion world.
On May 12, 2009,
The Independent , called her
the biggest star in fashion history .
She is ranked #1 as the Top Model Icon of All Time at models.com. She is also #3 at the Money Girls list and The Sexiest Models
Endorsements and earnings Since her debut, Bündchen has been the face of a variety of advertising campaigns including several seasons of
Christian Dior ,
Louis Vuitton
and
Victoria's Secret . [ citation needed ]
She has appeared in advertisements for
Nivea
lotion and is the face of several Brazilian brands including
Vivo , Multiplan (Shopping Malls), Colcci, Credicard ( Citibank ) and Volkswagen do Brasil. [ citation needed ]
After C&A Brazil hired Bündchen as a spokesmodel and began airing television commercials, sales increased by 30%.
At the Fashion Rio Inverno 2006 In May 2006, Bündchen signed another multi-million dollar deal with American giant
Apple Inc. . She starred in an advertising campaign to promote the new
Macintosh
line through the
Get a Mac
advertisements. Also in 2006, Bündchen became the new face of Swiss luxury watchmaker Ebel.
She has her own line of sandals with footwear company Grendene called
Ipanema Gisele Bündchen .
Forbes
puts her 53rd on their list of the most powerful celebrities of 2007
because of the international success of her shoe line, making the brand
Ipanema
the most sold Brazilian flip-flop in the world, surpassing the legendary
Havaianas . Custom Ipanema flip-flops sell for as much as $230 a pair. She is also the owner of a hotel in the south of Brazil, the Palladium Executive.
On May 1, 2007, it was announced that Bündchen had ended her contract with Victoria's Secret.
In July 2007, having earned an estimated total of $33 million in the past 12 months,
Forbes
magazine named her the world's top-earning model in the list of the World's 15 Top-Earning Supermodels.
An American economist named Fred Fuld developed a stock index to
measure the profit performance improvement of companies represented by
Bündchen compared with the
Dow Jones Industrial Average . According to Fuld, the
Gisele Bündchen Stock Index
was up 15% between May and July 2007, substantially surpassing the Dow Jones Industrial Average which was up just 8.2%.
During 2009-2010 she was reportedly the top earning supermodel.
Other ventures
Charity activities Bündchen lends her support and image to a number of charities and humanitarian causes, such as the
I am African
campaign, in which she painted her face to protest the lack of attention given to Africa's HIV/AIDS victims. Without receiving payment, Bündchen was, in 2006, the face of
American Express Red Card , an initiative launched by
U2
front man
Bono
and
Bobby Shriver
to send a percentage of monies earned from the financial transactions of this credit card to Africa's HIV/AIDS victims.
In 2009, she appeared almost simultaneously in more than 20 covers of the international issues of
Elle
magazines wearing
(Product) Red
clothing and posing with products from companies who support the same cause.
(RED) ’s primary objective is to engage the private sector in increasing assistance for the
Global Fund ,
to help defeat AIDS in Africa. Companies whose products take on the
mark contribute a percentage of the sales or portion of the profits from
that product to the Global Fund to finance AIDS programs in Africa,
with special attention on the health of women and children.
At the Fashion Rio Inverno 2006 In 2003, Bündchen designed an exclusive and limited edition of platinum hearts, working with
Platinum Guild International
and
Harper’s Bazaar , crafted by jewelers Gumuchian Fils. These platinum hearts were sold to raise money for
St. Jude Children's Research Hospital
which specializes in cancer treatment. She served as the spokesperson and campaign model for
Fashion Targets Breast Cancer .
Bündchen already gave a São Paulo Fashion Week's payment check for
Zero Hunger
(in Portuguese:
Fome Zero ), a Brazilian-government program introduced by Brazilian president
Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva
also in 2003.
She was, in 2009, one of the celebrities to sign up for the auction fundraiser of celebrities autographed
iPods
to raise cash for the victims of
Hurricane Katrina , organised by
Tonic.com. , alongside former
U.S.A. 's president
Bill Clinton ,
Cher ,
Beyoncé ,
Britney Spears ,
Mariah Carey ,
Ellen DeGeneres
and others. The money is for the
Music Rising
institution which aims to recover and invest in the musical culture of the destroyed areas.
She promotes protecting the Brazilian
Atlantic Forest
and
Amazon Rainforest
water sources, donating to this cause a percentage of profits from her line of sandals named
Ipanema Gisele Bündchen . Also, Bündchen helps projects such as
Nascentes do Brasil ,
ISA ,
Y Ikatu Xingu
and
De Olho nos Mananciais .
Bündchen and
Grendene , the company that produces and disseminates her line of sandals, also joined the
Florestas do Futuro
project for the reforestation of the Brazilian Atlantic Forest. The project was created by the NGO named
SOS Atlantic Forest
in 2004. The new forest, named for
Gisele Bündchen Sementes , started with 25,500 shoots of 100 different species, enough to revitalize an area of 15 hectares.
In January 2010, Bündchen donated US$1,500,000 to relief efforts for the
2010 Haiti Earthquake .
On 20 September 2009, she was designated
Goodwill Ambassador for the United Nations Environment Programme
(UNEP). [42]
Acting career In 2004, Bündchen played the bank robbers' leader, Vanessa, in the 2004 remake
Taxi . In 2006, she played a minor character in
The Devil Wears Prada . She was also a cameo in the famous Apple, Get a Mac, campaign opposite Justin Long and John Hodgeman as a Mac iMovie.
Personal life
Relationships On Thursday, February 26, 2009, Bündchen married
Tom Brady
in a small Catholic ceremony at St. Monica Catholic Church in Santa Monica, California.
On April 5, 2009, the couple remarried in a larger ceremony in Costa Rica, with Brady's son and actress
Bridget Moynahan
present. For the April ceremony, Bündchen wore a dress and veil designed by
John Galliano
In December 2009, Bündchen gave birth to a boy in Boston, but the couple had trouble choosing a name
before choosing Benjamin Rein Brady, whose middle name is in honor of Bundchen's father Reinoldo.Bündchen said that she only speaks Portuguese to her baby.
Bündchen told Harper's Bazaar Magazine that breastfeeding should be a
"worldwide law" stating, "Some people here (in the US) think they don't
have to breastfeed, and I think 'Are you going to give chemical food to
your child when they are so little?' I think there should be a
worldwide law, in my opinion, that mothers should breastfeed their
babies for six months."
She later explained her comments on her blog, "My intention in making a
comment about the importance of breastfeeding has nothing to do with
the law," Bundchen writes. "It comes from my passion and beliefs about
children. Becoming a new mom has brought a lot of questions, I feel like
I am in a constant search for answers on what might be the best for my
child."
They
christened
their 6-month-old son Benjamin in
Santa Monica
on June 22, 2010
Prior her relationship with Brady, Bündchen had a long-term romance with Hollywood actor and environmentalist,
Leonardo DiCaprio .
Song tribute As an homage to Bündchen, Brazilian singer and songwriter Gabriel Guerra, along with musician Pedro Cezar, wrote the song
Tributo a Gisele
( Tribute to Gisele
in English),
which is currently the theme of the model's official website. In
January 2008, Bündchen met Gabriel Guerra at Copacabana Palace Hotel in
Rio de Janeiro .
Nude photographs On April 11, 2008, a black-and-white photo of Bündchen, shot by
Irving Penn , was auctioned for
US$ 193,000 (£96,000). The picture was one of dozens from the collection of Gert Elfering that were sold at
Christie's
International in New York. In all, the auction tallied US$4.27 million and included pictures of
Brigitte Bardot ,
Kate Moss ,
Naomi Campbell ,
Christy Turlington
and
Carla Bruni . Bündchen's picture reached the highest price in comparison with the others. Bardot was the second with US$181,000 (£90,000).
Image inspiration In 2006,
Elle
magazine bosses surveyed the American leading
stylists and asked them to name the star whose hair is a favourite for
their clients. More than 50 percent gave Bündchen the title of
best hair in Hollywood , followed by
Sienna Miller
in at second place and
Nicole Richie
in at third position.
In February 2008, research rults were publicized by
The International Society of Aesthetic Plastic Surgery
(ISAPS) to reveal how world celebrity images, which overwhelm popular
media, influence people's choices and decisions to undergo plastic
surgery. The question asked was "What influences do celebrities have on
the decisions patients make?". The survey was sent to more than 20,000
plastic surgeons in 84 countries. Gisele Bündchen,
Jennifer Lopez ,
Angelina Jolie ,
Nicole Kidman ,
Pamela Anderson ,
Sophia Loren ,
Brad Pitt
and
George Clooney
were the most frequently mentioned celebrities. Bündchen won the
abdomen
and
hair
categories and took second place in the
breasts
category.
Publicat de
Alex
la
02:20
Niciun comentariu:
Trimiteți
prin e-mail
Postaţi pe blog! Distribuiţi pe Twitter Distribuiţi pe Facebook Trimiteți către Pinterest
Pagina de pornire
Abonaţi-vă la:
Postări (Atom)
Persoane interesate
Arhivă blog
▼
2010
(3)
▼
noiembrie
(3)
Marisa Lee Miller
Claudia Schiffer
Gisele Bündchen
Despre mine
Alex
Vizualizaţi profilul meu complet
Șablonul Simple. Un produs
Blogger .