26 | June | 2011 | Kterrl's Video Favorites
Kterrl’s Video Favorites
Just another WordPress.com weblog
Home Hot music Videos kterrls Video Favorites
Archive for
June 26, 2011
Who is Marie McDonald McLaughlin Lawrie?
Who is Marie McDonald McLaughlin Lawrie? The entertainment and music world knows Lulu Kennedy-Cairns by her stage name
Lulu . She is a
Scottish
singer-songwriter ,
actress , and
television personality
who has been successful in the entertainment business from the 1960s
through to the present day. She is most famous worldwide for her hit “ To Sir, with Love ” and in the
UK
for “ Shout “.
Biography
Early 1960s
Lulu was born 3 November 1948 and she grew up in Dennistoun,
Glasgow ,
where she attended Thomson Street primary school and Onslow Drive
Junior School. She lived in the Gallowgate for a while before moving to
Garfield Street. At the age of 12-13, she and her manager approached a
band called the Bellrocks asking if she could sing with them to get used
to a live band and the stage. Alex Thomson (bass player of the
Bellrocks) said even at that age her voice was unbelievable. She then
went on to sing with them every Saturday night. They were asked to
become her backing band, but at that time, playing was just a hobby and a
bit of fun. Taken under the wing of Marion Massey, she became famous at
the age of fifteen with her version of
The Isley Brothers ‘ “Shout”,
delivered in a raucous and extraordinarily mature voice. Her backing group was called
The Luvvers ,
but after several more British hits, she left the group to become a
solo artist. Massey would guide her career for more than 25 years, for
most of which she was Lulu’s equal partner as a business enterprise.
Massey’s husband Mark London also wrote many of Lulu’s hits.
In 1966, Lulu toured
Poland
with the British
rock and roll
band
The Hollies , making her the first British female singer to appear live behind the
Iron Curtain .
In the same year, she recorded two German language tracks, “Wenn du da
bist” and “So fing es an” for the Decca Germany label. All of Lulu’s
Decca recordings were made available in 2009 on a 2-CD entitled
Shout! , issued on
RPM Records . [1]
She left
Decca
after failing to place any singles on the chart in 1966 and signed with
Columbia
to be produced by
Mickie Most , who also hired
Jimmy Page
to play guitar on a few sessions. All of the seven singles she cut and released with Most made the
UK Singles Chart . Despite this, Lulu was disparaging about Most in her
autobiography
I Don’t Want To Fight ,
published in 2002. She described him as “cheap” and had little positive
to say about their working relationship, which she ended in 1969 after
her biggest UK solo hit. Nonetheless, when Mickie Most died in 2003,
Lulu was full of praise for him and told the
BBC
they had been very close.
[2]
In 1967 she made her debut as a film actress in
To Sir, with Love ,
a British vehicle for
Sidney Poitier . She had a major hit with the title song “ To Sir, with Love “, which shot to number one in the
United States ; she makes notable use of
melisma
in the song, and decades later it remains the song for which she is
best known in that country. In the UK, it was released only on the
B-side
of “Let’s Pretend”, a # 11 hit, but “To Sir, with Love” sold over one million copies, and was awarded a
gold disc . [3]
In the meantime, she continued with a thriving pop career in the UK and
several television series of her own. From 30 June to 2 July 1967, Lulu
appeared on
The Monkees
tour at the
Empire Pool ,
Wembley . Rumors of a romance and indeed an engagement with
Davy Jones
of The Monkees were rife, but it was a complete media fabrication,
created by Jones himself, apparently with her tacit approval.
The Eurovision Song Contest
On 29 March 1969, she represented the
United Kingdom
by performing the song “ Boom Bang-a-Bang ”
at the
Eurovision Song Contest . The song was chosen by viewers of her
BBC1
variety series
Happening for Lulu
from a shortlist of six entries. Lulu performed one song a week for six weeks and then on week seven,
Michael Aspel
presented Lulu performing all six songs, one after another. The
performances were then repeated and viewers invited to send in postcard
votes for their favourites. The six songs were: “Are You Ready For
Love?”, “March!”, “Come September”, “I Can’t Go On Living Without You”,
“Boom Bang-a-Bang” and “Bet Yer!”. “I Can’t Go On…” was written by
Elton John
and
Bernie Taupin
who were introduced by Aspel as Elton Jones and Bernie Poppins. Their
song came last in the postcard vote, but was later recorded by
Cilla Black ,
Sandie Shaw ,
Polly Brown , Lulu and Elton himself. “Boom Bang-a-Bang”, written by Peter Warne and Alan Moorhouse was declared the winner. On stage in
Madrid , Lulu was accompanied by
Sue and Sunny , two well-known
backing singers
who went on to be the first female members of
Brotherhood of Man . The orchestra was conducted by Johnny Harris, Lulu’s resident musical director.
“Boom Bang-a-Bang” was the winner – with three other songs. The entries from
Spain , (“ Vivo cantando ” by
Salomé ),
Netherlands , (“ De Troubadour ” by
Lenny Kuhr ) and
France , (“ Un jour, un enfant ” by
Frida Boccara )
also finished in first place with 18 votes each. There had never been a
tie before, and the rules were altered to prevent it ever happening
again. According to
John Kennedy O’Connor ‘s
The Eurovision Song Contest – The Official History , the result caused dismay and disgust, leading to
Austria ,
Portugal ,
Norway ,
Sweden
and
Finland
all refusing to enter the 1970 competition. [4]
Lulu had the biggest hit around the continent with her winner,
recording German, French, Spanish and Italian versions alongside the
original English.
In 1975 she hosted the BBC’s
A Song for Europe
(now Eurovision: Your Country Needs You) contest, the qualifying heat for the
Eurovision Song Contest , in which
The Shadows
performed six shortlisted songs. Lulu joined fellow Eurovision winners
at a charity gala held in Norway in 1981. She was also a panellist at
the 1989 UK heat, offering views on two of the competing eight entries.
She told
John Peel
backstage that although she did not like “Boom Bang-a-Bang”, she would
have sung anything just so long as she won the contest. “I know it’s a
rotten song, but I won, so who cares? I’d have sung “ Baa, Baa, Black Sheep ”
standing on my head if that’s what it took to win…. I am just so glad
I didn’t finish second like all the other Brits before me, that would
have been awful.” Oddly enough, her potentially inflammatory statement
only endeared her further to the European public.
Since then, Lulu rarely talks about her Eurovision experiences, or
her song “Boom Bang-a-Bang”, which she then and now dislikes despite the
fact that it was her biggest solo UK hit (reaching number two on the
chart in 1969).
Below Lulu explains how she got into the contest, and about what came out (from the
BBC Radio 2
special on 50 Years Of The Eurovision Song Contest):
In 2009, Lulu provided comment and support to the six acts shortlisted to represent the UK at
Eurovision 2009
on the BBC1 show Eurovision: Your Country Needs You hosted by
Graham Norton .
Late 1960s – mid 1970s
Maurice Gibb
Only weeks before her Eurovision appearance, Lulu married fellow musical star
Maurice Gibb
of the
Bee Gees
in a ceremony in
Gerrards Cross . Maurice’s older brother
Barry
was opposed to their marriage as he believed them to be too young. Their honeymoon in
Mexico
had to be postponed because of Lulu’s Eurovision commitment. Their
careers and his heavy drinking forced them apart, and they divorced,
childless, in 1973 but remained on good terms. In 1970 Lulu was back on
the US charts with the Top 30 hit, “ Oh Me Oh My (I’m a Fool for You Baby) ”
(later covered by
Aretha Franklin
and also
John Holt ) and a collaboration with the Dixie Flyers on “Hum a Song (From Your Heart)”. In 1969, she recorded
New Routes
an album recorded at
Muscle Shoals
studios; several of the songs featured
slide guitarist
Duane Allman , including a version of
Jerry Jeff Walker ‘s “ Mr. Bojangles “. A year later she followed with a similar album
Melody Fair . Both were recorded for
Atlantic ‘s
Atco label
and were produced by
Jerry Wexler ,
Tom Dowd
and
Arif Mardin .
She also recorded four other German language tracks, (“Ich brauche
deine Liebe”, “Wach’ ich oder träum’ ich”, “Warum tust du mir weh”, and
“Traurig, aber wahr”) on the Atlantic/WEA label. These songs again, went
unnoticed in the German music market.
After appearing in a successful TV series,
Three Of A Kind ,
which aired on the BBC in 1967, a format that featured music and comedy,
Lulu was given her own TV series in 1968, which ran annually until 1975
under various titles including
Lulu’s Back In Town ,
Happening For Lulu ,
Lulu , and
It’s Lulu
which featured
Adrienne Posta . She later co-hosted a revived series of
Oh Boy!
for
ITV
in the early 1980s. Her BBC series featured music and comedy sketches and star guests. Her most famous guest was possibly
Jimi Hendrix ,
who appeared in 1969, swore live on the show and refused to stick to
the original songs that had been planned. Lulu began 1970 by appearing
on the
BBC ‘s highly rated review of the sixties music scene
Pop Go The Sixties , performing “Boom Bang-A-Bang” live on the show broadcast on
BBC1 , December 31, 1969. She was one of the main artists invited to appear on the BBC’s anniversary show
Fifty Years Of Music
in 1972. On December 31, 1976, Lulu performed “Shout” on BBC1’s
A Jubilee Of Music ,
celebrating British pop music for Queen Elizabeth II’s impending Silver
jubilee. In 1999, Lulu returned to BBC1 to host their Saturday night
lottery/game show
Red Alert .
In 1972 she starred in the Christmas
pantomime
Peter Pan
at the
Palace Theatre, Manchester
where the show was a huge success. She repeated her performance at the
London Palladium
in 1975, and returned to the same role in different
London -based productions from 1987 to early 1989. Other notable London stage appearances came in the early 1980s in
Andrew Lloyd Webber ‘s
Song and Dance
and the
Royal National Theatre ‘s
Guys and Dolls . She damaged her
vocal cords
while performing in the Webber show, requiring surgery that threatened her singing voice. She also made an appearance on the
Morecambe and Wise Show
in 1973, singing “ All the Things You Are ” and “Happy Heart”.
In 1974 she performed
the title song
in the
James Bond movie
The Man with the Golden Gun .
Two slightly different versions of the song were used, at the start and
end respectively – the end song actually name-checking James Bond.
Also during 1974, she did a cover of two of
David Bowie ‘s classic songs, “ The Man Who Sold the World ” and “ Watch That Man “.
Bowie himself produced the recordings and played saxophone, and
provided back-up vocals on it. There were also rumours that they had a
brief affair at the time. Lulu confirmed these rumours in her 2002
autobiography. Bowie, perhaps characteristically, evaded comment on the
subject.
“The Man Who Sold the World” peaked at number three on the UK chart,
her first UK top 10 hit in five years and also her last until 1986.
In 1977, Lulu married
John Frieda ,
who was previously her hairdresser, and remained with him for twenty
years until divorcing him in 1995, having separated in 1991. They had
one son,
Jordan Frieda , later in 1977. She became interested in Eastern mysticism and joined
Siddha Yoga , a
new religious movement .
Later career
Lulu’s singing career waned, but she continued to remain in the
public eye, continuing to act and host her own long running radio show
on London’s
Capital Radio
station. She also became the celebrity spokes-model for
Freemans
fashion catalogue for a long while during the late 1970s and early
1980s. In late 1979, Lulu’s career suffered a minor setback when she was
in a car accident that nearly took her life, having collided head on
with another car on Brooksend Hill. That same year, she recorded for Elton John’s label
Rocket Records
and seemed about to hit the charts again, with the lauded “I Love to
Boogie”, but surprisingly, despite critical acclaim and much airplay, it
did not make the top 75.
In 1981, Lulu returned to the US charts with “ I Could Never Miss You (More Than I Do) “,
a Top 20 hit which also reached number two on the
Adult Contemporary
chart despite stalling at number 62 in the UK. Early the following
year, she had a more modest US hit with “If I Were You”, which just
missed the Top 40. Also in 1982, she appeared in the video for “ Ant Rap ” alongside
Adam and the Ants
and was nominated for a
Grammy
for “Who’s Foolin’ Who” from the “Lulu” album. She won the
Rear of the Year
award in 1983 and re-recorded a number of her songs. These included
“Shout,” which reached the Top 10 in 1986 in the UK, securing her a spot
to perform on the popular BBC music programme,
Top of the Pops . In 2002, Lulu achieved the accolade of being one of only two performers ( Cliff Richard
being the other) to have sung in the
Top of the Pops
studio in each of the five decades that the show ran. A follow up single to “Shout”, an updated version of
Millie ‘s 1960s hit “ My Boy Lollipop “,
failed to chart and Lulu stopped recording until 1992, focussing
instead on TV, acting and live performances. These tracks were released
on the
Jive Records
label. Lulu has had hits on the Decca, Columbia, Atco,
Polydor ,
Chelsea ,
Alfa , Jive, Dome,
RCA ,
Mercury
and
Universal
labels. She has also released singles for
GTO , Atlantic, Globe,
EMI ,
Concept , Lifestyle, Utopia and Rocket, and
Epic
in the US. For a while, she held the record for the most number of hit labels in the UK charts. In 1987, she played
Adrian Mole ‘s mother
on television
(replacing
Julie Walters ), and in 1993 she made a recording comeback, with the single Independence which reached number 11 on the UK charts.
Later that year she guested on the
cover version
of the
Dan Hartman
song “ Relight My Fire “, with
boy band
Take That .
The single reached number one in the British charts and Lulu went on to
become Take That’s support act for their 1994 tour. By this time, her
marriage to John Frieda had completely crumbled, and with the divorce,
she released “Independence” in January 1993. She also appeared as
herself, an unhappy public relations client of main character Edina
Monsoon in two episodes of the hugely popular BBC television programme
Absolutely Fabulous . She teamed with
French & Saunders
many times, including their send up of the
Spice Girls
(The Sugar Lumps) for
Comic Relief
in 1997 when she took the role of “Baby Spice”, mimicking
Emma Bunton , who in turn appeared on Saunders’ show
Absolutely Fabulous
in a self-mocking cameo as herself, a refugee (with Edina’s daughter,
Saffy) of a prestigious girls’ school. The title track from
“Independence” just missed the top ten and all four singles released
from the album hit the UK charts, as did two later singles released in
1994. Despite these hit singles, the album itself did not make a major
impact on the charts, though it seemed to do nothing to diminish her
European celebrity. A further album, recorded in 1999, and provisionally
titled ‘Where the Poor Boys Dance’ was shelved due to supporting
singles such as “Hurt Me So Bad” which charted, but did not make the
Top 40 .
Also in 1999, she co-wrote and recorded a duet with UK pop singer
Kavana
entitled “Heart Like The Sun”, but it was not released commercially until Kavana’s 2007 greatest hits collection,
Special Kind Of Something: The Best of… . The
National Lottery
Game Show “Red Alert” saw Lulu return to
prime time
BBC television but, despite an attempted revamp, the shows commission soon ceased.
Now officially known as Lulu Kennedy-Cairns, in 2000, she was awarded an
OBE
by
Queen Elizabeth . Her 2002 autobiography is called
I Don’t Want to Fight
after the
hit song
she and her brother wrote with hit songwriter
Steve DuBerry
for
Tina Turner , which is a song that Lulu later released in 2003, as part of her
The Greatest Hits
album. In 2002 her gold album
Together
was a collection of duets with such as Elton John and
Paul McCartney , tracks from which were performed in a high profile TV special for ITV,
An Audience With Lulu , which saw Lulu reunite with her first husband Maurice Gibb for a live performance of “ First of May “. She followed this with the publication of her autobiography, “I Don’t Want To Fight”.
In 2004, she released the album
Back on Track
and went on a
UK-wide tour to celebrate 40 years in the business despite the album
charting at a low No 68. In late 2004, Lulu returned to radio, becoming
the host of her own 2-hour radio show, on BBC Radio 2, playing an
eclectic blend of music from the 1950s to the 2000s, all having to do
with the influence of songwriting. In 2005, Lulu released
A Little Soul in Your Heart , a collection of soul classics that entered the
UK Albums Chart
at number 28. In March 2006, Lulu launched her official
MySpace
profile, where she could keep in contact with current fans, and
reconnect with old ones.Lulu continues to act occasionally and starred
alongside
Tom Courtenay
and
Stephen Fry
in the British
movie ,
Whatever Happened to Harold Smith? . She has more recently appeared in the BBC’s reality TV show
Just the Two of Us
in 2006 as a judge, and in late June and early July 2006, appeared on Take That’s UK and
Ireland
tour, to perform their song “Relight My Fire”. She appeared on
American Idol
Season 6 on 20 March 2007 as a mentor for the female contestants, and
the following night performed “To Sir, With Love” live. Later in 2007,
Lulu appeared in the UK as a guest for
Jools Holland
in his series of concerts and features and on Holland’s CD release
“Best of Friends”, performing “Where Have All the Good Guys Gone?”
Lulu’s complete Atco recordings (made between 1969 and 1972) were released onto a twin
CD
set for the first time on 12 November 2007. The two CD set included
previously unreleased and demo versions of some of her recordings from
this period. In December 2007, Lulu released a download single on
iTunes
in the UK, called “ Run Rudolph Run “. At this time Lulu was also promoting a range of beauty products on
QVC (UK) , called “Time Bomb”, and appeared on the 2007 Christmas television advertisement for
Morrisons , the UK
supermarket
chain.
In November 2008, Lulu was announced as one of a number of Scottish
celebrities that would feature in the advertising campaign for
Homecoming Scotland , a year-long event to encourage people around the world with Scottish heritage to return to Scotland.
Also in November 2008, Lulu posted the following message on her website, celebrating the election of
Barack Obama
as President of the USA: “Barack Obama Is In – Yippee, now we have got
hope in the World. I’ve just turned 60, Obama is the new president of
the USA and I think its going to be a fantastic yeah. Love Lu X”. [5]
In both the 1979 and 1983
UK General Elections , Lulu had been a staunch and highly visible supporter of
British Prime Minister
Margaret Thatcher
and the
Conservative Party .
In January 2009, Lulu began a four week stint as an advisor/coach on the BBC show
Eurovision: Your Country Needs You , helping to choose the singer to represent the UK at the
2009 Eurovision Song Contest .
In the summer of 2009, Lulu guest presented on
STV ‘s daily lifestyle show
The Hour , alongside main anchor
Stephen Jardine .
She appeared between 27 and 31 July. The Scottish magazine programme
airs weekdays at 5 pm. As of 2009, she continues to pitch her range of
“Lulu’s” anti-ageing products and other cosmetics through the QVC (UK)
home shopping channel, using her youthful appearance as a promotional
tool.
After appearing at an
ABBA
tribute concert in
Hyde Park, London ,
during September 2009, Lulu announced that she would be touring the UK
in a ‘Here Come The Girls’ concert performance alongside
Chaka Khan
and
Anastacia .
The trio promoted the concert series on UK TV, ahead of the first
performance in November 2009, which took in 20 different dates.
In early 2010, Lulu performed the theme “The Word Is Love” to the movie
Oy Vey! My Son Is Gay!! .
In tribute to Lulu’s amazing career, the Scottish Town of Ullapool
holds an annual music festival Loopallu (pronounced Loop A Lulu). Each
September the small town welcomes people from all over the country to
watch bands who were inspired by Lulu’s Music.
Discography
Main article:
Lulu discography
Filmography
Gonks Go Beat
(1965)
To Sir, with Love
(1967)
Cucumber Castle
(1970)
The Cherry Picker
(1972)
Alicja
(1982) (voice)
To Sir, with Love II
(1996)
Whatever Happened to Harold Smith?
(1999)
To see more of Who Is
click here
June 26, 2011 | Categories:
Uncategorized
| Tags:
entertainer ,
lulu ,
singer ,
song writer ,
who is
| 		 1 Comment
Who is Jon Brion?
Who is Jon Brion? The entertainment and music world knows Jon Brion as an
American
rock
and
pop
multi- instrumentalist ,
singer ,
songwriter ,
composer
and
record producer .
Life and career
Early life
Brion was born December 11, 1963 in
Glen Ridge ,
New Jersey .
He came from a musical family; his mother, LaRue, was an administrative
assistant and singer, and his father, Keith Brion, was a band director
at
Yale . [1]
His brother and sister became a composer/arranger and a violinist,
respectively. Brion had difficulties at Hamden High School and at the
age of 17 left education, opting instead to play music professionally.
From 1980-85 Jon was part of the band, The Excerpts, along with Stephen
Harris, Dean Falcone & Spike Priggen. [2]
The Bats
In the early 1980s, Brion and musician/producer Bill Murphy began a writing collaboration in
New Haven, Connecticut . They eventually enlisted bassist Don “Riff” Fertman and together formed
The Bats , (not to be confused with the
New Zealand group
of the same name). The Bats released a single, “Popgun” and one album
How Pop Can You Get? ,
on Gustav records in 1982. The recordings had much critical acclaim,
but little commercial success, and the trio eventually disbanded.
Session work
In 1987, Brion moved to
Boston , where he played solo gigs, formed the short-lived band World’s Fair and became a member of the last touring version of
Aimee Mann’s
new wave
band
‘Til Tuesday . He contributed guitar work to
Jellyfish ‘s 1993 album
Spilt Milk , and in 1994, joined
Dan McCarroll ,
Buddy Judge
and Jellyfish guitarist
Jason Falkner
in the short-lived pop band
The Grays . Brion played numerous instruments on
Sam Phillips ‘ 1996 release
Omnipop (It’s Only A Fleshwound Lambchop) . Brion is featured as keyboardist and drummer on
Marianne Faithfull ‘s 2003 album,
Kissin’ Time , and co-wrote a song, “City of Quartz”, for her next work, 2005’s
Before the Poison .
Production
After being recognized as an accomplished session player, Brion
branched out into production on then-girlfriend Mann’s 1993 solo debut,
Whatever , and its follow-up,
I’m With Stupid . He has also produced albums by
Fiona Apple ,
Rufus Wainwright ,
Eleni Mandell ,
Rhett Miller ,
Robyn Hitchcock ,
Brad Mehldau
and
Evan Dando .
He also co-produced
Kanye West ‘s
Late Registration
album in 2005.
In the fall of 2002, Brion began producing the album
Extraordinary Machine
with Fiona Apple, but she later brought in producers
Mike Elizondo
and
Brian Kehew
(a friend of Brion’s) to complete the album. Brion’s versions leaked
onto the Internet, where the album gained a cult following long before
its official release. [3]
Brion worked and performed on some of the tracks for
Sean Lennon ‘s 2006 album
Friendly Fire . Lennon said that working with him was “how I would imagine it’s like to work with
Prince . It’s like having a weird alien prodigy in your room.” [4]
More recently, Brion has produced recordings by British pop performer
Dido ,
Spoon , and
Keane , as well as 2009’s
Jon Brion Remix EP
by
Of Montreal .
Meaningless
Brion was signed to the
Lava / Atlantic
label in 1997, but was released from his contract after turning in his solo debut album
Meaningless ; the album was released independently in 2001.
He is rumored to be working on his second solo full-length album at Abbey Road Studios.
Film scores
Brion is an accomplished film composer, having started scoring by frequently working with director
Paul Thomas Anderson , with whom he has a preferential working relationship. In addition to scoring many of his films, Brion contributed music to
Boogie Nights
and had a cameo in the film as a moustached guitar player.
Particularly in his film soundtracks, Brion is noted for his use of early analog sampling instruments, particularly the
Chamberlin
and
Optigan , to create near-realistic emulations of certain instruments. [5]
He has earned a
Best Score Soundtrack Album Grammy
nominations for his work on 1999’s
Magnolia
and 2004’s
Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind .
Brion was hired at the last minute to write the incidental music for
The Break-Up . He has also scored the films and provided original music for
I Heart Huckabees ,
Punch Drunk Love ,
Step Brothers
and
Synecdoche, NY . He also did live composition for a musical commentary on the
Step Brothers
DVD.
Personal life
Mary Lynn Rajskub
He dated comedic actress
Mary Lynn Rajskub
for five years until they broke up in the fall of 2002.
Touring and live performances
Brion is renowned for his regular Friday-night gigs at the
Los Angeles
club
Largo ,
which feature covers and original songs, a variety of instruments and
occasional guest musicians and comedians. He works without a set list,
instead using audience suggestions as a jumping-off point. His
extraordinary use of layered loops and frequent adoption of a “jigsaw
puzzle” approach to performing songs (starting often with drums, then
adding piano, bass, guitar, and vocals in turn) have captivated the
capacity crowds at Largo and earned Brion a strong following. Recent
shows have featured spontaneous appearances with vocalist
Rickie Lee Jones , singing old jazz standards like “My Funny Valentine”, with upright bassist
Stephen Patt
(ex- Chambers Brothers ), percussionist
Matt Chamberlain
(ex- Wallflowers ), bassist
Sebastian Steinberg
(ex- Soul Coughing ), and fiddler
Sara Watkins
(ex- Nickel Creek ).
In April 2006, recurring tendonitis in Brion’s right hand forced him
to cancel all of his upcoming Largo shows. As a temporary ‘farewell’, he
played one show only using his left hand, even looping his songs as he
normally does and playing the drums with one stick. He is now back to
playing at Largo on a regular basis.
Recalling his approach to the Largo shows with
Chicago Tribune
music editor Lou Carlozo, Brion said: “I taught my hands to follow
whatever was coming into my head—and wherever my consciousness would go,
I had to push my hands to follow. And at some level, you just had to
abandon any concern about how you’d look. Performing without a set list:
That was special.”
Discography
With The Bats
How Pop Can You Get?
(1982)
With The Grays
Ro Sham Bo
(1994)
With Elliott Smith
Background vocals in the song “ Happiness ” (2000)
With E
Vocals on “Shine it all on” E song from the album Broken Toy Shop (1993)
Solo
Meaningless
(2001)
Film scores
Hard Eight
(with
Michael Penn ) (1996)
Magnolia
(1999)
Punch-Drunk Love
(2002)
Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind
(2004)
I ♥ Huckabees
(2004)
The Break-Up
(2006)
Synecdoche, New York
(2008)
Step Brothers
(2008)
Glago’s Guest
(2008) [6]
The Other Guys
(2010)
As producer
Aimee Mann ,
Whatever , (1993)
Aimee Mann ,
I’m with Stupid , (1995)
The Crystal Method
– “Bad Stone” (1997)
Rufus Wainwright ,
Rufus Wainwright , (1998)
Eleni Mandell ,
Wishbone , (1998)
Robyn Hitchcock ,
Jewels for Sophia , (1998)
Robyn Hitchcock ,
A Star for Bram , (1999)
Fiona Apple ,
When the Pawn… , (1999)
Aimee Mann , “ Bachelor No. 2 “, (2000)
The Crystal Method
– “Over the Line” (2001)
Elliott Smith ,
From a Basement on a Hill , (unreleased version, recorded 2001)
Brad Mehldau ,
Largo , (2002)
Rhett Miller ,
The Instigator , (2002)
Evan Dando ,
Baby I’m Bored , (2003)
Fiona Apple ,
Extraordinary Machine , (unreleased version, recorded 2002–2003)
The Crystal Method
– “Realizer” (2004)
Kanye West ,
Late Registration
(as co-executive producer and co-producer on several tracks), (2005)
Marjorie Fair ,
Self Help Serenade
(as co-executive producer), (2005)
Kanye West ,
Graduation
(as co-producer), (2007)
Spoon , “The Underdog,”
Ga Ga Ga Ga Ga , (2007)
Keane , “You Haven’t Told Me Anything”,
Perfect Symmetry , (2008)
Dido ,
Safe Trip Home , (2008)
Of Montreal ,
Jon Brion Remix EP , (2009)
Of Montreal ,
False Priest , (2010)
Brad Mehldau ,
Highway Rider , (2010)
Punch Brothers , “ Antifogmatic “, (2010)
To see more of Who Is
click here
June 26, 2011 | Categories:
Uncategorized
| Tags:
entertainer ,
jon brion ,
producer ,
singer ,
song writer ,
who is
| 		 Leave a comment
31 people got busted on May 18, 2011
To See more of Who Got Busted In Memphis  click here.
June 26, 2011 | Categories:
Uncategorized
| Tags:
Busted ,
drug bust murders ,
In Jail ,
incarcerated ,
Locked up ,
on the run ,
prositition ,
robberys
| 		 Leave a comment
John Pinette – Lines Drive Me Crazy!!!
Now Thats Funny!!!!
June 26, 2011 | Categories:
Uncategorized
| Tags:
comedians ,
comedy ,
john pinette ,
jokes ,
now thats funny
| 		 1 Comment
Who is Alexandra Imelda Cecelia Ewan Burke?
Who is Alexandra Imelda Cecelia Ewan Burke ?
[1]   The British and American entertainment world knows  Alexandra Burke as an English
singer
who rose to fame after winning the
fifth series
of British television series
The X Factor .
As the winner of
The X Factor , Burke released her debut single, “ Hallelujah “, originally a
Leonard Cohen
song, that became the current European record holder for single sales
over a period of 24 hours: selling 105,000 copies in one day; [2]
but also, the top-selling song of the year in the UK as well as becoming the 2008
Christmas number one single
in the UK. By January 2009, sales of Burke’s version of “Hallelujah”
had passed one million copies which made her the first British female
soloist to sell that amount of copies in the UK. [3]
Her debut album,
Overcome , was released in October 2009 and entered the
UK Albums Chart
at number one. The album’s lead single “ Bad Boys ”
was released a week in advance to the album and debuted at number one
in the UK: becoming her second consecutive number-one single and first
Brit -nominated single. [4]
She has sinced followed “ Bad Boys ” with singles that have consecutively stolen top ten places in the
UK Singles Chart . To date, Alexandra has achieved 4 Number one singles across the UK and Ireland: “ Hallelujah “, “ Bad Boys “, “ All Night Long ” and “ Start Without You “.
Burke has been nominated twice for Brit Awards [4]
and has achieved four solo number one singles: her most recent single “ Start Without You ”
“Start Without You”
became her third solo UK number one hit; as well as two number one singles as a featured artist in charity singles “ Hero ” and “ Everybody Hurts “.
As of December 2010, Burke has sold over 4 million records in the U.K
alone with combined sales of her singles and her debut album Overcome. [5]
Early life
Burke was born on 25 August 1988 in
Islington ,
London. Her middle names come from her great grandmother (Imelda) and
grandfather (Cecil) and her mother’s maiden name (Ewan). She is the
daughter of
Jamaican -born David Burke and English-born
Melissa Bell
of Jamaican, Irish and
Dougla
descent, who is a former
Soul II Soul
member. Her parents separated when she was six. She has lived in Islington all of her life and has four brothers and one sister.
Burke started singing when she was five and at nine years old, she sang on stage in
Bahrain
with her mother. At the age of twelve, Burke entered the TV talent show
Star for a Night
where she was the youngest person in the competition. She was beaten to the number-one spot by
Joss Stone . At age twelve, she sang down the phone to
Stevie Wonder . [ citation needed ]
When Burke’s mother asked her to sing to
Jean Carne , Carne was so impressed that she asked her to perform at her show the next night. [ citation needed ]
Burke attended Elizabeth Garrett Anderson School in Islington, Angel and after her
GCSEs
she left school to pursue a career in music. Before her
X Factor
success, she had been working as a singer, gigging at weekends in clubs. [1]
She also went on tour with “Young Voices”, a charity that raises money for children with
leukemia , where she performed at large venues such as the
Royal Albert Hall .
Career
2005–2009:
The X Factor
Burke auditioned for the second series of
The X Factor
in 2005 (which was eventually won by
Shayne Ward ). She made it through to the final seven in
Louis Walsh ‘s
16–24 category, effectively the top 21 of the competition; however,
Walsh did not choose her for his final four as he felt that she was too
young for the competition. Burke however did not give up and went on to
seek professional singing lessons over the next three years, proving her
dedication and commitment to becoming a popstar.
Burke’s second bid to win
The X Factor
came in 2008. Falling into the “Girls” category, she was mentored by
Girls Aloud ‘s
Cheryl Cole
who selected her for the finals—a series of ten weekly live shows in
which contestants are progressively eliminated by public vote. On the
first live show, Burke performed
Whitney Houston ‘s classic “ I Wanna Dance with Somebody “. For the second live show she covered “ I’ll Be There ” by
The Jackson 5 . In week three,
big band
week, Burke performed
Christina Aguilera ‘s “ Candyman ” and received her first standing ovation. For the
disco -themed fourth live show, Burke performed
Donna Summer ‘s “ On the Radio “. During
Mariah Carey
week on 8 November, Burke and the other finalists met Carey for individual
masterclasses , with Carey complimenting Burke on her voice. Burke performed “ Without You ”
and received a standing ovation from the judges who all gave her
positive comments. Cowell commented that “by any standard, that was just
outstanding”. Following the show Burke’s performance was also praised
by Carey who called her rendition of the song “absolutely amazing”.
In weeks 6 and 7, Burke received positive comments from the judging
panel for her performances of Alicia Keyes’s “Empire state of mind” and
Dan Hartman ‘s “ Relight My Fire ” (the popularity of which in the UK is mostly a result of
Take That ‘s 1993 revival thereof). Week 8 saw her replace
Diana Vickers
as the bookies’ favourite after performing
Britney Spears ‘ “ Toxic ” and
Beyoncé Knowles ‘ “ Listen “, for which she received yet another standing ovation. In week 9, Burke performed
Rihanna ‘s hit song “ Don’t Stop the Music ”
and again received positive comments, with Louis calling her “the
British Beyoncé” and Simon commenting “…We may be seeing the birth of a
star here […] you’ve got it all, that was a terrific performance”.
Diana Vickers
was eliminated in the semi-final, to the shock and upset of both Burke
and Eoghan Quigg. Burke confessed after Vickers’ final performance that
she thought Vickers was going to win.
Burke was joined in the grand final by Irish teenager
Eoghan Quigg
and boyband
JLS . She sang “Listen” as a duet with Beyoncé (who later performed her UK number-one single “ If I Were a Boy “), and after performing with the American singer she proclaimed: “I have achieved a dream”.
After the elimination of Quigg she sang what became her debut single, a 1984 song by
Leonard Cohen ,
Hallelujah ,
for the first time. Finally, with over eight million votes cast in
total, Burke was revealed as the winner with 58% of the final vote. [6]
The single went on to become the
Christmas number one
of 2008, holding the top spot for three weeks and selling one million
copies. There was also a campaign to take Jeff Buckley’s cover of
Hallelujah
to the top of the Christmas chart to deny Burke the top spot. [7] [8]
The campaign was fuelled by Jeff Buckley fans’ dislike of
The X Factor’ s commercialism and the song’s arrangement, [9] [10]
as well as a desire by this contingent to introduce younger music fans to Buckley’s version. [11]
Burke herself was not enamoured of the choice of song, and dismissed
the original by remarking “It just didn’t do anything for me”. [10]
As winner, Burke received a recording contract with record label,
Syco , which is co-owned by
Sony Music Entertainment .
The contract has a stated value of £1 million, of which £150,000 is a
cash advance and the remainder is allocated to recording and marketing
costs. [12]
2009–2010:
Overcome
On 13 February 2009 it was reported that Burke signed a £3.5 million, five-album US record deal with
Epic Records . [13]
Burke’s first album was originally scheduled for March 2009, however,
Simon Cowell
confirmed that her album was scheduled for release later in the year to
allow Burke to polish her skills and find the right songs for the
album, so that it would not be rushed. The album was released on 19
October 2009 in the UK, titled
Overcome . [14]
Burke’s first commercial single from her debut album is titled “ Bad Boys “,
“Bad Boys”
which features
Flo Rida . The single premiered in the UK on
The Chris Moyles Show
on
BBC Radio 1
on 25 August 2009. [15]
On 18 October 2009,
Bad Boys
topped the UK Singles Chart. [16]
After visiting Burke in the studio,
Beyoncé
spoke of possibly recording a duet with her [17]
and also asked for Burke to join her for Beyonce’s second European leg of her
I Am… Tour . [18]
Bad Boys
was certified Platinum by the British Phonographic Industry on 7 January 2010.
American rapper
50 Cent
has expressed an interest in Burke, correctly predicting that she would win
The X Factor
and invited her to appear in an upcoming music video of his, most likely for a song from his upcoming album
Before I Self Destruct . [19]
On 19 July 2009, Burke confirmed that she had signed a six figure contract with Italian fashion designers
Dolce & Gabbana ,
to become the face of a new fashion line. She will also model their
clothes and accessories in her music videos. Burke performed on the
Royal Variety Show
on 7 December 2009. [20]
It was confirmed by Burke on 17 November 2009, that “ Broken Heels ” would be the second commercial single, (third overall), from
Overcome . [21]
She also confirmed via her Official
Twitter
page that the video was shot in Los Angeles on 22 and 23 November 2009. [22]
On 18 January 2010, Burke began her European Promo Tour in
Brussels , Belgium. [23]
On 12 March 2010, Burke confirmed on Twitter that “ All Night Long ” will be her new single, featuring
Pitbull . She appeared on
Dancing on Ice
during the semi-final to perform
All Night Long . [24]
On 29 April 2010, Burke entered FHM’s poll for the world’s top 100
sexiest women 2010 at number 75. This is her first appearance on the
poll since she rose to fame in 2008. [25]
It has been since confirmed that Burke’s next single will be a completely new song, “ Start Without You “,
“Start Without You”
which is set to be released on 5 September 2010. [26]
The video for “Start Without You” debuted on August 19 through VEVO on later premiered on The BOX. [27]
The song was performed at T4 On The Beach on 4 July 2010. Additionally,
Burke was announced as the first ever brand ambassador for
Sure Women , for which she starred in a television advert. [28]
Burke gained her fifth consecutive top ten hit, and her third number one single, after
Start Without You
stormed to the top of the charts, beating Katy Perry to the top spot.
The re-packaged edition of
Overcome
is to be released of November 29, 2010. [29]
Music Week
reports that the deluxe makeover will include three brand new tracks;
“Perfect”, “Before the Rain” and “What Happens On the Dancefloor”
featuring
Cobra Starship ; as well as three number one and two Top 10 singles (including “ Start Without You “). A
DVD
will accompany the release featuring seven videos, including an
exclusive promo for the track ‘The Silence’. The magazine also confirmed
that Burke will promote the record with a performance on
The X Factor . A new track on the album was recently revealed to be a
duet
with “an amazing group”. On October 25 Alex revealed via her twitter that a new version of
“The Silence” (song)
will be the albums 5th commercial single being released in early December. [30]
The official music video for
The Silence
was released on 27 October 2010, via MSN Videos UK. [31]
It was confirmed that there would be no further singles from the album after “The Silence”. [32]
2010–Present: Untitled upcoming second album
Alexandra revealed that her next album will get “down and dirty”,
promising the record that will take risks. “It’s got to be sexy. So I’m
going to get a lot fiercer and sexier. We’re just getting down and dirty
with the next album. I’m going to take a lot more risks and it’s going
to be insane.” She also hinted at any collaborations on the LP, “I can’t
say too much because my management will kill me if I let loose. But I
have a special duet planned. I have the ideas, the collaborations in my
mind – it’s all locked up in my head.” The album is confirmed to be
“half-way” finished, and revealed that she is planning to go to New York
to record some new tracks. Recording is expected to stop from January
to March, and then resuming after. Alex confirmed that she has worked
with the Moroccan producer RedOne for a lot of the album, but hopes to
work with
David Guetta ,
Bruno Mars , Stargate and
Ne-Yo , among others. [32]
Discography
Main article:
Alexandra Burke discography
Studio albums
Overcome
(2009)
Tours
2009: The X Factor Live
2011:
All Night Long Tour [33]
Awards and nominations
Year
Nominated work
Award
Result
2009
“Hallelujah”
BRIT Award
for Best British Single [34]
Nominated
“Hero”
Nominated
Alexandra Burke
MOBO Award
for Best UK Newcomer [35]
Nominated
2010
“Bad Boys”
BRIT Award
for Best British Single [36]
Nominated
Alexandra Burke
Glamour Women of the Year Awards
for Best Newcomer [37]
Won
Overcome
Urban Music Award
for Best Album 2010
Nominated
“All Night Long”
Urban Music Award
for Best Collaboration (with
Pitbull )
Nominated
Urban Music Award
for Best Music Video
Nominated
Alexandra Burke
BT Digital Music Awards
for Best Female Artist
Nominated
“Bad Boys”
BT Digital Music Awards
for Best Song
Nominated
BT Digital Music Awards
for Best Video
Nominated
The 2010
Popjustice
£20 Music Prize
Nominated
Alexandra Burke
MOBO Award
for Best UK Act
Nominated
Cosmopolitan
for Ultimate UK Music Star
Won
MTV Europe Music Award
for Best Push Act
Nominated
XS AWARDS for Best British Star
Won
WSC Gala Awards 2010 for Best Female Artist [38]
Nominated
Philanthropy
Before her
X Factor
appearance and success, Burke went on tour with “Young Voices”, a charity that helps to raise money for children with
leukemia , where she performed many times at large venues such as the
Royal Albert Hall .
Following the
2010 Haiti earthquake ,
many celebrities, including Burke, wanted to help the suffering people
of the country. She was confirmed for the Haiti Charity single,
Everybody Hurts ,
commenting “I hope the single raises lots of money. It’s great that we
can come together and do this. It’s a very special song.” Soon after,
Burke revealed she would be travelling to
Haiti
so she can physically help the people out there, saying “For me,
singing two lines on a single doesn’t mean I have really helped. I
wanted to go out and physically help the kids. I’m not a doctor, but I
can give clothes, food and love. At least I’ll be able to make a couple
of kids smile.” Burke visited and helped in the week beginning 8
February 2010, and posted two video blogs about her visit on YouTube. [39]
She later returned six months later to check the progress of the country after being a huge part in the
Save the Children
charity campaign. [40]
Alexandra was confirmed to join various female celebrities to join the
Peru
Inka Trail Hike for Breast Cancer Care, along with
Fearne Cotton ,
Denise Van Outen , and
Holly Willoughby . [41]
To see more of Who Is
click here
June 26, 2011 | Categories:
Uncategorized
| Tags:
alexandria burke ,
entertainer ,
reality telvelision personality ,
singer song writer ,
who is ,
x factor winner
| 		 Leave a comment
Who is Scott Philip Brown?
Who is Scott Philip Brown ? , The political world knows Scott Brown as an American politician, who is currently serving as the junior
United States Senator
from
Massachusetts . Brown is a member of the
Republican Party . Before his election, he served as a member of the
Massachusetts General Court , first in the
State House of Representatives
(1998–2004) and then in the
State Senate
(2004–2010). [3] [4]
Brown defeated the
Democratic
candidate, Massachusetts Attorney General
Martha Coakley , in the
2010 U.S. Senate special election
to serve the remainder of the term vacated by the death of
Ted Kennedy ,
a term that will expire at the beginning of 2013. Brown became the
first Republican elected to the U.S. Senate from Massachusetts since
Edward Brooke
in 1972. [5]
While initially trailing Coakley in polling by a large margin, Brown
closed the gap in the first weeks of January 2010 before going on to win
the election. [6] [7] [8] [9]
He is the first Republican from Massachusetts to serve in the
U.S. Congress
in any capacity since 1997.
Prior to entering the state legislature, he had experience as a town
selectman
and assessor. He is a practicing
attorney , concentrating in
real estate law [10] [11] [12]
and serving as defense counsel in the
Judge Advocate General’s Corps
of the
Massachusetts Army National Guard . Brown is a graduate of
Wakefield High School
(1977),
Tufts University
(1981), and
Boston College Law School
(1985).
Early life and education
Brown was born on September 12, 1959 in
Kittery, Maine [13]
and grew up in
Wakefield, Massachusetts . [14]
He often spent his summers in
Newburyport, Massachusetts , where his father served as a
city councilor
for 18 years. Brown’s father, C. Bruce Brown, and mother, [14]
Judith, [2]
divorced when he was about a year old. Both his parents have since
remarried three times. His father and his grandfather were Republicans.
His father has said that young Scott became interested in running for
political office in the mid 1960s while accompanying him on a campaign
for state office. [15]
Scott Brown recalls holding campaign signs for his father. [2]
Against All Odds
Brown had a difficult childhood; after her divorce his working mother received
welfare
benefits. [16]
Brown experienced
sexual abuse
from a
camp counselor
who threatened to kill the ten-year-old boy if he told anyone—which he
did not disclose even to his family until his autobiography
Against All Odds
(2011) [17] —and physical abuse from his stepfathers. [18]
During various periods of his childhood, Brown lived with his grandparents and his aunt. He shoplifted many times, [18]
and was arrested for stealing record albums and brought before Judge
Samuel Zoll
in
Salem, Massachusetts
at the age of 13 or 14. [19]
Zoll asked Brown if his siblings would like seeing him play basketball
in jail and required Brown to write a 1,500-word essay on that question
as his punishment. Brown later said, “that was the last time I ever
stole.” [14]
He graduated from
Wakefield High School
in 1977. [4]
He received a
Bachelors of Arts
in History, [20]
cum laude
from
Tufts University
in 1981 and a
Juris Doctor
from
Boston College Law School
in 1985. During his undergraduate career at Tufts, Brown was a member of the Kappa Chapter of
Zeta Psi
International Fraternity. [13] [21]
Non-political career
Army National Guard service
Brown has said the rescue efforts of
Army National Guard
during the
Northeastern United States blizzard of 1978
impressed him. He joined the
Massachusetts Army National Guard
when he was 19, receiving his basic training at
Fort Dix, New Jersey , [14]
and attending
Reserve Officers’ Training Corps
(ROTC) classes at the campus of
Northeastern University . [22]
He has been active in the Guard for about 30 years and has risen to the rank of
lieutenant colonel . Presently serving as the Army Guard’s head
defense attorney
in
New England , Brown defends Guard members who have disciplinary difficulties such as positive
drug tests , [2]
and provides
estate planning
and
real estate
advice to those who are about to deploy to war zones. [22]
Expressing regret that he will soon be forced to retire from the Guard, [23]
Brown has said: “I’m probably one of the most qualified soldiers in the entire Massachusetts [Guard]…. I have
enlisted
service, I have
infantry ,
quartermaster ,
JAG , I’m
airborne
qualified, I’ve been to all the courses.” [14]
He has not served in
Iraq
or
Afghanistan ,
but Brown said he was prepared to go if called. “I go where they order
me to go… I’m just proud to serve and be part of the team.” [2]
He spent ten days to two weeks with the Guard in
Kazakhstan
and a week in
Paraguay . [2]
He was awarded the Army
Commendation Medal
for meritorious service in
homeland security
shortly after the
September 11 attacks . [4]
He credits his military experience with causing him to focus on
veteran ‘s issues as well as issues of war and peace. [2]
He has served on the Veterans and Federal Affairs Committee, the Hidden
Wounds of War Commission, and the Governor’s Task Force on Returning
Veterans during his career as a legislator. [2]
Modeling
In June 1982, Brown, then a 22-year-old law student at Boston College, won
Cosmopolitan
magazine’s “America’s Sexiest Man” contest. After two weeks on a
crash diet
of “three cans of tuna a day” and intensive workouts [18]
he was featured in the magazine’s
centerfold , posing
nude
but strategically positioned so that according to Brown, “You don’t see
anything”. In the accompanying interview, he referred to himself as “a
bit of a patriot” and stated that he had political ambitions. The
Cosmopolitan
appearance and its $1,000 fee [2] [24] [25]
helped pay for law school, and began for Brown a “long, lucrative”
part-time catalog and print modeling career in New York and Boston
during the 1980s. [26]
Early political career
Brown began his political career in 1992 when he was elected property
assessor
of
Wrentham, Massachusetts . At that time, he “caught the political bug.” [2]
In 1995, he was elected to the Wrentham
Board
of Selectmen .
He successfully ran for the
Massachusetts House of Representatives
in 1998, representing the 9th Norfolk District for three terms. Brown
again moved up the ladder of state politics to the state Senate in March
2004 when he won a special election to replace Democrat
Cheryl Jacques .
Brown was re-elected for a full term in November 2004, and again in
November 2006, running without opposition the second time. He won
re-election in November 2008, defeating Democratic candidate Sara Orozco
by a 59–41 percent margin. Following his re-election, Brown was one of
five Republicans in the 40-seat Massachusetts senate. In the
Massachusetts Senate, Brown served on committees dealing with consumer
protection, professional licensing, education, election laws and public
safety as well as veterans affairs. [21]
In February 2007, a controversy arose after Brown’s appearance at
King Philip Regional High School
in
Wrentham, Massachusetts
as part of a debate on
gay marriage . The high school students had launched a
Facebook
group attack on Brown and had made a derogatory remark about his daughter,
Ayla .
During his presentation, Brown defended himself and his daughter by
directly quoting several vulgar statements they had made and announcing
the names of the students who had written the statements. Critics
questioned whether Brown should have quoted the profane comments in
front of a high school audience. [27]
The Boston Globe
reported that during six terms in the Legislature, three each in the
House and Senate, Brown has a modest record of legislative initiatives,
but he has carved out a niche as a leading advocate for
veterans .
Richard R. Tisei
of
Wakefield, Massachusetts , the leader of the Republican minority in the state Senate, called Brown “the acknowledged expert on veterans’ issues.” [28]
State Senator
Jack Hart , a Democrat of
South Boston ,
said: “He does his homework, he’s comprehensive in his approach, and on
veterans’ issues, he’s one of them and has done a very good job on
their behalf.” [28]
As a legislator, Brown lists among his achievements his authorship of
a 2007 law that created a check-off box on state income tax forms for
veterans to indicate whether they served in Iraq or Afghanistan. The
state uses the information to notify veterans of available services and
benefits, including the
Welcome Home Bonus [29]
that provides $1,000 for those returning from active duty in Afghanistan or Iraq. [28]
U.S. Senate
2010 election
On September 12, 2009, Brown announced his run for the U.S. Senate seat that became vacant on the death of
Ted Kennedy , saying the state “needs an independent thinker.” [30] [31]
Washington Post
columnist
Kathleen
Parker [32]
said that Brown’s political positions did not fall neatly into party
lines, and called Brown “mainstream in a nation that defines itself as
mostly conservative”. [33]
Boris Shor, political scientist at the
Harris School of Public Policy ,
described Brown as a liberal Republican by national standards, but
well-suited for his Massachusetts constituency. Shor explained the
support Brown was receiving from the conservative national GOP as due to
their “decentralized decision” to support the candidate most likely to
win. [34] [35]
Brown won a landslide victory in the Republican primary on December 8, 2009, defeating late entrant and
perennial candidate
Jack E. Robinson
by a margin of 89 percent to 11 percent. [36]
Brown’s opponents in the general election were Democratic nominee, Attorney General Martha Coakley, and
independent
Joseph L. Kennedy
(no relation to the
Kennedy family ).
At the outset, he faced overwhelming odds because he was relatively
unknown compared to Coakley, he was running as a Republican in a very
Democratic state, and much of his campaigning had to be done during the
Christmas and New Year’s season when citizens do not generally pay much
attention to politics. [37]
A week before the general election, Brown raised $1.3 million from over 16,000 donors in a 24-hour
money bomb . His campaign office stated it raised $5 million over the period from January 11–15. [38] [39]
Charlie Cook of the
Cook Political Report
stated on January 17 that he would put his “finger on the scale” for
Scott Brown as the favorite. The Rothenberg Political Report released a
statement that “the combination of public and private survey research
and anecdotal information now strongly suggests that Republican Scott
Brown will defeat Democrat Martha Coakley in tomorrow’s race”. [40]
Suffolk University ‘s polling of three
bellwether
counties on January 18 had Brown leading Coakley by double-digit margins. [41]
Brown won the January 19 election, performing well in traditional
Republican strongholds and holding rival Coakley’s margins down in many
Democratic precincts. [42] [43] [44]
One week before the January special election, a controversy arose over a Coakley approved television ad. The ad referenced the
conscientious objector
amendment Brown had sponsored for inclusion in a 2005 proposed state measure on patients’ rights. [45]
This amendment would have allowed individual healthcare workers and
hospitals to refuse to provide emergency contraceptive care to rape
victims if they objected due to a
religious belief .
After the amendment failed, Brown did vote for the main bill which,
along with other patient rights, requires healthcare workers and
hospitals to provide such care. [46]
Coakley’s ad featured a male voice that said, “Brown even favors
letting hospitals deny emergency contraception to rape victims,” over
the ad’s graphic which had the words, “Deny care to rape victims.” [46]
Brown’s daughter
Ayla
called the Coakley ad “completely inaccurate and misleading”, and
stated that her father would never deny care to a rape victim. Brown
criticized Coakley for running what he described as attack ads. [46]
In the 2010 Senate race, although Brown was not endorsed by the Greater Boston Tea Party group, [47]
the group organized a fund-raising breakfast for him in Boston. [48]
The Tea Party Express also endorsed Brown [49]
and bought ads on the national cable networks supporting Brown. [50]
When told that at various times he has been labeled a
conservative ,
moderate
and a
liberal
Republican, he responded “I’m a Scott Brown Republican.” [51]
According to Politifact, while Brown was a Massachusetts legislator, he
voted about 90 percent with the state Republican leadership; [52]
however, Republican Leadership in the Massachusetts legislature is
generally considered far more moderate than the national Republican
Party. [53]
On election night, after Coakley conceded, Brown gave a victory
speech that concluded, “I’m Scott Brown, I’m from Wrentham, I drive a
truck, and I am nobody’s senator but yours.” [54]
Tenure
Brown was sworn in to office on February 4, 2010, by
Vice President
Joe Biden , in his capacity as
President of the Senate , on the floor of the Senate. [55]
As a
Class I
Senator, his term will last until January 3, 2013.
Brown was among the speakers at the
Conservative Political Action Conference
in
Washington, D.C. , introducing former Massachusetts
governor
Mitt Romney . [56]
Despite his appearance at CPAC, where he alluded to his election as
making “big government spenders…[not] feel good at all”, Brown refused
to rule out a vote for a Democratic “jobs bill” proposal, and has
praised both
Senate Majority Leader
Harry Reid
of
Nevada
and
senior
Senator
John Kerry
of
Massachusetts
for indicating their willingness to work with him across party lines. [57]
Scott was one of five Republican senators to vote for cloture on the
jobs bill . The motion passed in the Senate 62–30 on February 22, 2010. [58]
In an up-or-down vote on the bill itself on February 24, 2010, Brown voted for final passage, helping to pass the bill 70-28. [59]
Political positions
Brown has positioned himself as a
conservative
counterweight to Massachusetts’ previously all-Democratic, 12-member congressional delegation. [2] [14]
He describes himself as socially moderate and fiscally conservative. He identifies himself as a “ Reagan Republican “.
He has said, “I’m going to be the only person down there who is going
to be the independent voter and thinker… I’ve always been the underdog
in one shape or form.” [14]
Fiscal policy
Brown opposes a proposed multi-billion dollar tax on banks to recoup
bailout money and prescribing of bank executive compensation. Brown,
discussing the proposal through a spokesperson, said that he is “opposed
to higher taxes, especially in the midst of a
severe recession “. He also opposes it on the grounds that the tax would likely be passed onto consumers in the form of higher service and
ATM
fees. [61] [62]
In September 2010, Brown opposed a Senate bill creating a $30 billion
government fund aimed at encouraging lending to small businesses. The
bill combines the fund with $12 billion in new tax breaks. Brown
criticized the bill for including a provision much like
TARP , stating: “Banks making lending decisions with government funds is not the way to get our economy moving again.’’ [63]
On December 12, 2010, the
Boston Globe
reported that “[c]ampaign contributions to [Brown] from the financial
industry spiked sharply during a critical three-week period last summer
as the fate of the
Wall Street regulatory overhaul
hung in the balance and Brown used the leverage of his swing vote to win key concessions sought by firms.” [64]
Brown received more than ten times the amount of contributions from the
financial services industry
as
House Financial Services Committee
chairman (and author of the legislation)
Barney Frank
during the same period. [64]
Foreign policy
On December 9. 2010 Brown filibustered the Defense Authorization Bill
of 2011, denying the bill a chance of an up or down vote on provisions
to raise military salaries and provide increased armor to troops. He
supports President
Barack Obama ‘s decision to send 30,000 more troops to
fight in Afghanistan . He cited
Stanley McChrystal ‘s recommendations as a reason for his support. [2]
He also advocates that suspected
terrorists
be tried in
military tribunals
and not civilian courts. [22]
He also supports the limited use of “ enhanced interrogation techniques “, including
waterboarding
against non-citizen terrorist suspects. [65]
He supports a
two-state solution
for the
Israel-Palestinian conflict
in which Israel and a new, independent
Palestinian state
would co-exist side by side. [66]
Veteran services
In 2007, Brown wrote a law establishing a check off box on State
income tax forms to allow a filer to indicate if he or she is a veteran
of the
Iraq
or
Afghanistan
wars. The measure’s purpose is to locate and inform returning veterans
of benefits they qualify for. Known as the “Welcome Home” bonus, it was
passed with
bipartisan
support. [4]
Brown also amended the
Dodd–Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act , with Senator
Jack Reed
(D,
RI ),
to create a dedicated military liaison office within the newly formed
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, which aside from defending against
unscrupulous lenders, also ensures protection of military families
against fraudulent life insurance policies. The measure passed the
U.S. Senate
99 to 1. [67]
Health care
Brown supported the 2006
Massachusetts health care reform , which requires all residents to have
health insurance ,
with a state-subsidized plan created for those who cannot afford to
insure themselves. Brown does not support President Obama’s health care
reform plan in its current form as approved by the Democratic-led House
and Senate. He has stated this plan is fiscally unsound, and during his
campaign notably pledged to be the 41st vote to
filibuster
the bill in the Senate. [68]
Brown voted for a state measure on patients’ rights that, among other
provisions, requires emergency rooms to provide what is known as the
morning-after pill [69]
to rape victims to prevent an unwanted pregnancy from developing. In
consideration of health care workers who might have a religious
objection to administering this medication, Brown attached what became
known as the Conscientious Objector amendment which would have exempted
these workers, as well as religious hospitals, from being required to
provide this medication. However, Brown’s amendment also required that
all hospitals still had to provide a means for the patient to receive
the medication, either by providing another healthcare worker willing to
administer the medication, or, in the case of religious hospitals, to
provide transportation to another facility, and in a timely manner. [70]
The amendment did not pass. [71]
Brown remains in favor of allowing religious hospitals to refuse to
provide emergency contraception on moral or religious grounds, as he
stated in the January 5, 2010 candidate debate. [71] [72]
Energy policy
He supports expanding
solar ,
wind , and
nuclear power , and
offshore drilling
exploration as a means to reduce the country’s dependence on foreign oil. [14]
Although, when faced with the controversial issue of whether an
offshore wind farm
should be allowed in the waters off the Cape Cod coast in
Massachusetts, a major tourist destination and boating location, he
expressed opposition due to the fact he believed it would hinder tourism
and boating in the area. [73]
He supports tax incentives to promote alternative energy development. Brown opposes
cap and trade
which he argues is a national energy tax. [74]
Social issues
Brown refers to the currently legalized
same-sex marriage in Massachusetts
as a settled issue, which he does not wish to change. [2]
Brown has said he personally believes marriage is between a man and a
woman, but would oppose a constitutional amendment banning
gay marriage . [75]
He is in favor of
civil unions . [14]
He opposes ending the
Defense of Marriage Act , but otherwise favors leaving the issue to the states to decide. [9]
After initially claiming neutrality on
don’t ask, don’t tell , the ban on openly gay military personnel, [76]
he joined a handful of Republicans who broke with their party to repeal the ban in December 2010. [77] [78]
Brown has supported a presumption of shared parenting after divorce and was a co-sponsor of Fathers and Families HB 1460. [79]
Brown has stated that
Roe v. Wade
is settled law. He is against
intact dilation and evacuation
abortions (known by opponents as “partial birth abortion”) and has spoken in favor of
parental consent [14]
for minors who seek an abortion. He said he would not use abortion as a
litmus test
in
Supreme Court confirmations . [14]
He opposes federal funding for
elective abortion
in accordance with the
Hyde Amendment . [9]
Crime and security
Brown supports strengthening Massachusetts sex offender penalties. [79]
He also supports the
death penalty . [66]
He supports the
right to bear arms , with some restrictions such as licenses and background checks. [79]
He opposes providing
driver’s licenses
and in-state tuition to
illegal immigrants .
He also supports strengthening border enforcement and creating an
employment verification system with penalties for companies that hire
illegal immigrants. [66]
Organizational associations and honors
Brown is a 30-year member of the
Massachusetts National Guard , in which he currently holds the rank of
lieutenant colonel
in the
Judge Advocate General’s Corps . Brown was awarded the
Army Commendation Medal
for meritorious service in organizing the National Guard to quickly support
homeland security
following the terrorist attacks of
September 11, 2001 . [81] [82]
He has also completed
Airborne School
and been awarded the
Meritorious Service Medal .
A member of the Massachusetts
Bar Association , Brown is also involved in the Wrentham
Lions Club , United
Chamber of Commerce , North Attleboro/Plainville Chamber of Commerce, Neponset Valley Chamber of Commerce, and
USA Triathlon
Federation. He serves as a Board Member of the 495/MetroWest Corridor Partnership Inc., and serves on the Hockomock Area
YMCA
Board of Incorporators. [83]
Brown has received the Public Servant of the Year Award from the
United Chamber of Commerce for his leadership in reforming the state’s
sex offender
laws and protecting
victims’ rights . [84]
Brown’s family has helped raise funds for such
non-profit organizations
as Horace Mann Educational Associates (HMEA,Inc.), Wrentham
Developmental Center, Charles River Arc, and the Arc of Northern Bristol
County, all for the care and support of those with
developmental disabilities . He has also been recognized by the
National Federation of Independent Businesses
(NFIB) for his work in creating an environment that encourages job growth and expansion in Massachusetts. [85]
The
Boston Globe
selected Brown as the 2010 Bostonian of the Year, citing his “profound impact on national politics in the last year”. [80]
Personal life
Family
Gail Huff
Brown is married to former
WCVB-TV
reporter
Gail Huff , whom he met through modeling. They have two daughters,
Ayla , an
American Idol
semi-finalist and attending
Boston College , and Arianna, a competitive equestrian and pre-medical student at
Syracuse University . [26]
Besides their primary home in
Massachusetts , the couple owns a home in
Rye, New Hampshire , three rental condos in
Boston , and a timeshare on the Caribbean island of
Aruba . [14] [86] [87] [88]
Religion
Brown and his family worship at New England Chapel in
Franklin, Massachusetts , a member of the
Christian Reformed Church in North America
which is a
Protestant
Christian denomination. They also have a relationship with a community of
Cistercians , more commonly known as
Trappistine , [89] [90]
Roman Catholic
nuns at Mount St. Mary’s Abbey in
Wrentham, Massachusetts . The Brown family has raised over $5 million for the order, helping to install
solar panels , a
wind turbine
and a candy manufacturing plant that the order operates. [14]
To see more of Who Is  click here
June 26, 2011 | Categories:
Uncategorized
| Tags:
conservative ,
politicial candidate ,
Scott Brown ,
tea party candidiate ,
who is
| 		 Leave a comment
Who is Miguel Jontel Pimentel?
Who is Miguel Jontel Pimentel? The entertainment and music world knows Miguel as an American recording artist, songwriter and producer. Signed to
Jive Records
in 2007, Miguel released his debut album,
All I Want
Is You , in November 2010. The album was preceded by the release of the single “ All I Want Is You “, featuring rapper
J. Cole .
Life and career
Early life
Miguel Jontel Pimentel was born October 23, 1986 in the
San Pedro
neighborhood of
Los Angeles ,
California . [1] [2]
He is one of two sons born to a
Mexican
father and an
African american
mother. [2]
Miguel’s parents divorced when he was eight years old. [3]
At a young age, Miguel listened to
classic rock ,
hip hop ,
funk
and
rhythm and blues . [2]
At age 13, he began pursuing a career in music. [2]
Career beginnings
Miguel worked with a local production duo Drop Squad in 2000, before being signed with
independent record label
Black Ice in 2004. During this period, the labels had requested Miguel to make music similar to that of musical group
B2K . [4]
For nearly a year, Miguel’s manager at the time submitted several songs
to music mogul Mark Pitts; after receiving a song titled “Sure
Thing”—which Miguel described as a “highly personal…record that no one
was ever supposed to hear”—Pitts scheduled a meeting with Miguel in
October 2007. The following month, Miguel signed a
recording contract
with
Jive Records . [3] [4]
Miguel recalled that the signing his contract took place in a “very
small room in a very small office in a small corner of the building at
Jive”. [5]
Miguel was subsequently sued by Black Ice for “monetary rights to his newfound success”. [6]
For the following three years,, he contributed to
Usher’s
Here I Stand
and
Raymond v. Raymond , as well as
Asher Roth ‘s
Asleep in the Bread Aisle
and
Musiq Soulchild ‘s “ IfULeave “. [7] [8]
Miguel also released
Mischief: The Mixtape ;
he explained that the title referred to his attempt to “[tell] people
that there is an alternative to getting sort of the same thing”. [8]
The lawsuit was settled in 2010. [6]
All I Want Is You
After making his contribution to Usher’s
Raymond v. Raymond
in 2010, Miguel released his debut single titled “ All I Want Is You “, which features
J. Cole
and was produced by
Salaam Remi . It is the lead single from his debut album of the same title.
Musical style
Miguel cites musicians
Prince ,
David Bowie ,
Jimi Hendrix ,
Freddie Mercury ,
Phil Collins ,
Donny Hathaway ,
The Notorious B.I.G.
and
Kanye West , [9]
as well as the band
Queen
as his influences, [10] [11] [12]
in addition to expressing his admiration for
Stevie Wonder ,
John Lennon
and
Diane Warren . [8]
Miguel revealed his desire to have worked with
James Brown , whom he considers the “last innovator for me when it comes to soul”. [5]
In addition to singing, Miguel also plays the
guitar . [5]
He incorporates
R&B ,
funk ,
hip hop ,
rock
and
electronic
into his music. [4] [7] [12]
Miguel described his sound as “nostalgic in a sense that it’s familiar… it’s shocking, edgy, energizing”. [7]
In an interview with
Paper
magazine, he regarded his music as “fly, funkadelic, intergalactic-hip-hop-meets-sexy-orgasmic crazy, dope shit”. [5]
Discography
Mixtapes
2008:
Mischief: The Mixtape
Studio albums
Year
Title
Peak chart
positions
Sales
U.S.
U.S. R&B
2010
All I Want Is You
Released: November 30, 2010
Label:
Jive , Bystorm
Formats:
CD ,
music download
37
9
US: 165,700 [13]
Singles
Year
Song
Chart positions
Album
US
[14]
US
R&B
[14]
US
Heat
[14]
2010
“ All I Want Is You ”
(featuring
J. Cole )
58
7
1
All I Want Is You
2011
“ Sure Thing “
36
1
1
Guest appearances
Year
Title
Album
2007
“First Things First”
( Blu
&
Exile
featuring Miguel)
Below the Heavens
“Cold Hearted”
(Blu & Exile featuring Miguel)
“You Are Now In The Clouds With … (The Koochie Monstas’)”
(Blu & Exile featuring Miguel)
2009
“His Dream”
( Asher Roth
featuring Miguel)
Asleep in the Bread Aisle
2011
“Raise Your Hands”
( Paul Oakenfold
featuring Miguel)
“Hoe”
(Jhené Aiko featuring Miguel)
.sailing soul(s).
Awards and nominations
Grammy Awards
2011, Best R&B Song: “Finding My Way Back” – Songwriter (nominated) [15]
To see more of Who Is  click here
June 26, 2011 | Categories:
Uncategorized
| Tags:
entertainer ,
grammy nominated ,
miguel ,
singer ,
songwriter ,
who is
| 		 2 Comments
” Kterrl Search Engine”
search results
var googleSearchIframeName = "cse-search-results";
var googleSearchFormName = "cse-search-box";
var googleSearchFrameWidth = 800;
var googleSearchDomain = "www.google.com";
var googleSearchPath = "/cse";
Kterrls Post
June 2011
M
T
W
T
F
S
S
« May
Jul »
1 2 3 4 5
6 7 8 9 10 11 12
13 14 15 16 17 18 19
20 21 22 23 24 25 26
27 28 29 30
Blog at WordPress.com . |
The Modularity Lite Theme .
Follow
Follow “Kterrl's Video Favorites”
Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.
Join 975 other followers
Build a website with WordPress.com