Search Results
dq | London in New York
London in New York
Pages
About: Christopher London, Esq.
Archives
Contact
Links
Photos
Categories
9/11 Remembrance
Americana
Arts & Culture
Business & Economics
City Sports
Civics & Patriotism
Consigliere's Corner
Cultural Narcissism
Endorsements
Human Relations
Londonism: the Tao of Christo-pher
Nightlife & Entertainment
NY-Centricity
Philanthropy & Community
Politics
Social Studies
Society & People
words
Archives
June 2013
May 2013
April 2013
March 2013
January 2013
December 2012
October 2012
August 2012
July 2012
June 2012
May 2012
March 2012
February 2012
January 2012
December 2011
November 2011
October 2011
September 2011
August 2011
July 2011
June 2011
May 2011
April 2011
March 2011
February 2011
January 2011
December 2010
November 2010
October 2010
September 2010
August 2010
July 2010
June 2010
May 2010
April 2010
March 2010
February 2010
January 2010
December 2009
November 2009
October 2009
September 2009
August 2009
July 2009
April 2009
March 2009
February 2009
January 2009
December 2008
April 2008
March 2008
January 2008
January 2007
December 2006
February 2006
December 2005
November 2005
October 2005
September 2005
August 2005
July 2005
June 2005
May 2005
April 2005
March 2005
December 2003
November 2003
October 2003
July 2003
June 2003
May 2003
April 2003
March 2003
February 2003
January 2003
Photos
Links
CHRISTINE QUINN – THE WORST NIGHTMARE FOR CITIZENS IN THE OUTER BOROUGHS
March 7
Filed under
Civics & Patriotism ,
Cultural Narcissism ,
Politics
by Chris |
0 comments
NYC’S EPICENTER IS IN THE HEART OF ITS CITIZENS:
It Does Not Take the ‘King of Corona’ to See that a Five Borough Vision of New York City Eludes Long Island Girl Christine Quinn
I am what some might refer to as a so called
REAL New Yorker . I grew up in
Queens
and
Brooklyn
and now live in Manhattan, something I long aspired to but have questioned the necessity of living in this borough in recent years, given the escalating cost of housing here. My parents made the move to Manhattan before leaving to retire in the warmth of Florida.
My dream of the   ‘Bright Lights Big City’
may have been different than that of
Jay McInerney’s
character in the book of the same name but it was a dream nonetheless. Like it is for many, Manhattan remains a concept or an idea as much as anything else.
Yet, I am
‘B&T’
or
bridge and tunnel
all the way; and there is simply nothing getting around that fact  or that the basis for my dreams was formed in middle and working class neighborhoods in the
Outer Boroughs of New York City .   I have never forgotten who I am,  where I came from, nor am I deaf to the dreams of those who remained
from whence I came . That includes my own family, friends and fellow citizens who pursue their dreams still in those places, even if their success in life, in many cases, has often well eclipsed mine on many levels.   Even so, since my life is not over, maybe even  the Bronx
and  Staten Island
might still be in my future. Maybe it is even my destiny to be the five borough citizen. Who knows?  But if I have learned anything it is that the soul of New York City is well outside
Times Square ,
Grand Central Station
(Terminal) or
City Hall . The epicenter of
New York City
is  in the hearts of its citizens.
ABOUT ME & THE BOROUGHS OF NYC: In Black & White with a little Color
Jamaica Hospital
is my birth place. My early years were spent in this
city of neigborhoods
in several notable ones, including
Kew Gardens ,
Rego Park
and
Corona, Queens
before our family picked up and moved to
Sheepshead Bay , Brooklyn. I grew up playing in the
Forest Hills Little League , enjoying pick up games and otherwise exploring
Flushing Meadows-Corona Park , the two time site of the  World’s Fair , when it was even more of a wide open space and my mother
Virginia Bernadette Saunig
who grew up attending
St. Columba
in the
Chelsea section
of Manhattan while her parents worked for
AT&T
and the
New York  Central Railroad ,  even worked there along side  Louis Armstrong
of all people. But then again she was also a cocktail waitress at joints in Queens where
Xavier Cugat
practiced his craft. But I diverge, I recall also pending afternoons at the
Corona Ice King
and
Spaghetti Park
and playing
Stickball
at
St. Paul the Apostle Roman Catholic Church
parking lot on 99th Street.
But it was there at
P.S. 14
where it was “me and Julio down by the school yard” trying to figure out how to impress
Barbara Alman , the first girl that truly caught my eye. I got butterflies in my stomach just looking at her.  I could barely utter a coherent phrase to illustrate a more than passing interest in her, but some of my female classmate friends saw it clearly and often teased me about it. Those were the days, when the biggest challenge in life was to figure out if I was going to say hello to Barbara or something more.
After leaving
Queens
during the
Saturday Night Fever era , I often found myself
hanging out at
Connie’s Pizza
on
Nostrand Avenue
in
Sheepshead Bay
trying my best to look like one of the local punks. But how could we even think we were ‘gangsta’ in our shiny orange and white
Sheepshead Bay High School
Sharks Swimming Team jackets or even acting like
we founded the joint .
I have memories and I still have friends and family who grew up live in the
‘Outer Boroughs’ , the ones that Manhattan political elites only realize exist after a natural disaster or when they seek citywide elective office.  So yes, though I may live in Manhattan currently, my soul is
‘Bridge & Tunnel’ . Words once used to disparage people of my ilk are now, for me, a source of pride.  When I found work in Manhattan and landed my first legal job in New York City at
Weil, Gotshal & Manges
on Fifth Avenue, I can recall some of those I first associated with in Manhattan, who perhaps saw themselves as somewhat higher on the human food chain,  snidely refer to those from
the outer boroughs
as ‘B&T’.   I got past some of  my friends in college at
Boston University
calling me  ’Brooklyn’  by improving my diction, getting higher grades than they did and then gaining acceptance to the
University of Pennsylvania Law School .  Long before Joey from friends made
“How you doin”
famous for me that simple phrase got me snickers in some circles when I spoke, including from a young girl from the
Town of Yardley
in
Bucks County , Pennsylvania who later became my college girlfriend.  I  would be lying, however, if I did not say it irked me when I overheard ‘young urban professionals’ or Manhattanites at happy hours at fancy bars and restaurants in Manhattan, denigrate the people on the other side of the bridges and tunnels leading to Manhattan. When I reminded them, in my
Brooks Brother suit
(the one my mom bought for me) that I was from Queens and Brooklyn too, they would quickly say ” but you are different.”  Ironically today on the other side of Manhattan’s bridges & tunnels you find trust fund kids and wealthy entrepreneurs and folks I knew who never received the education I did and never emigrated to Manhattan became millionaires on their own.  Some even have more than those who made it in Manhattan. And no, it is not because they or their families were “all mobbed up.”
In my teens, my mom moved us to
Sheepshead Bay
in
Brooklyn
where I literally became a man. It was was the first place I laid down with a woman, got mugged, got my ass kicked and put myself on a path to realize my dreams or at least some of them. After all the clock has not yet run out on my life.  OK, I must confess, living in
Brooklyn
in the hey day of
Saturday Night Fever , I never owned a
Members Only
jacket. Instead fashion was nary a concern, because I was hoisting iron at
Bath Beach Bodybuilding
with some of my dorky friends, some of whom walked around full time as if they were on stage doing a lat spread. If any of you are reading this I hope you crack up but you know it is true!  Leaving the gym, I was often dressed in engineer boots and
Lee Jeans . And if you know
Bensonhurst , you would know I stuck out like a sore thumb.  I was ok that I never totally fit in. But then again that is what we wore to school in Queens at I.S. 61 and later at
John Bowne
in Queens and I spent more time listening to Rock and even got a job  at
Harry M. Stevens , the concessionaire at
Madison Square Garden , where I was able to work rock concerts in the 70’s.  I liked the movie Saturday Night Fever but starting out in Queens, for me, people like that were characters. That is until my first day at
Sheepshead Bay High School
where I saw folks dressed like
Tony Manero
and his friends in my class.
THE ED KOCH BRIDGE? – Nobody Calls it that!
REAL New Yorkers, those in
the outer boroughs
know that Long Island girl  Christine Quinn
is not one of us.  Maybe she should become Mayor of a nice town in Long Island?  I do not have an axe to grind with the deceased
Mayor Edward Irving Koch
other than to take issue with elements of the public relations burnished legacy that attempted to make him more than he was and gloss over
selected elements
of his actual legacy.  There is no doubt that  Ed Koch
deserves  his props ,
St. Christopher , however,  he was not. Nevertheless, Quinn should know that her backroom deal to name the
Queensboro Bridge
the Ed Koch Bridge while he was
’still alive’
so she could
bank an endorsement
from him, won’t mean much to folks in
Queens . We don’t call the 59th Street Bridge or the
Queensboro Bridge
the Ed Koch Bridge; in fact
‘Nobody Calls It The Ed Koch Bridge.’
Giving the city to Ed Koch and
Bill Rudin
so she can herself become Mayor is not impressive; its political patronage at best and at worst, something else entirely.
Furthermore, if Quinn hopes to have the
Queens Democratic Machine
rig the vote for her maybe she can win
Queens
but I believe that if the voters Queens have their say,  Christine Quinn will be repudiated at the ballot box.
Quinn’s best hope is to have her campaign and the mainstream media lure voters into thinking that the Mayoralty is already the bag for her.  It is not. Once the voters realize it is not,
Quinn’s candidacy
will implode like a house of cards. All politics is local and the
Democrats in Chelsea , at least those who participate and watch what leaders actually do, have already walked away from Christine Quinn. The campaign to
Defeat Christine Quinn
is growing at the grassroots level across this city, among Democrats and within the LGBT Community. Quinn’s
‘identity politics’
are not a good enough reason to vote for her. That should tell any Democrat paying attention to
the truth
of what Christine Quinn represents. They know Quinn does not represent the working men and women of New York City. Fact is that this ought to and just might be the
“Twilight of the Elite Christine Quinn”
if the media campaign to wash over her record does not fool a majority of voters.
DOES QUINN HOPE TO BE THE WIZARD OF OZ?
Voters in
Queens ,
Brooklyn ,
the Bronx
and
Staten Island
as well as the enlightened in Manhattan will come to realize, if they have not already, that Christine Quinn is the plutocracy’s wind up toy.  But, especially, if you live along the LIE, the BQE or take the MTA into the city or near the city for work, you will recognize that via Bloomberg and Quinn Manhattan is becoming more like the
Emerald City
in the fictional
Land of OZ , a place so far out of reach for the forgotten working men and women who grew up in New York City and more an
urban playground for the global jet setting elite only ; a place with a skyrocketing real estate and stock market with a plummeting middle class.
THE FUTURE OF NEW YORK CITY – QUINN & RUDIN’S LIMITED VISION
New York City was once to the rest of the world, a beacon of urban possibility, a place of dreams for artists and the iconoclastic; a place where
Governor Mario Cuomo , also a product of
Jamaica, Queens ,challenged the vision of elites who were looking past the plight of the every man and woman in this country. Cuomo cut his teeth at the local level – representing
“The Corona Fighting 69″
and then at the national level in
a historic speech
at the 1984 Democratic National Convention challenging
Ronald Reagan’s
vision of America as a
“Shining City on the Hill” . In his speech, Cuomo outlined how America had become
“Tale of Two Cities”
illustrating in vivid detail the emergence of a less compassionate society, the plight of the increasingly forgotten and eroding middle class and vulnerability of the elderly, the sick and the poor. Cuomo referenced the folks behind the
Norman Rockwell
like paintings of America that all too often some politicians seek to craft at election time to brush over the uncomfortable externalities of their policy. Now our city is becoming as empty and soul less as
Hollywood on the Hudson
and the words of
Mario Cuomo’s historic speech
in 1984 even more relevant today then they were back then.
ARE RUDIN/QUINN – OFFERING TO BUILD ‘A BETTER NEW YORK’?
‘The Surreal Shutdown of St. Vincent’s’
awakened many of us in this town to the reality that there is in fact something very wrong going on.  The
Rudin Real Estate Family
may think they are building
‘A Better New York’
or building some
‘Shining City on the Hill’
by knocking down this city’s history to install similar and soul less high rise glass towers and shopping malls in place of hospitals, educational institutions,
public parks
and community centers across this city so a handful of
Real Estate Insiders
can profit from creating 3rd and 4th homes or real estate investment properties for people who live in Manhattan barely 20% of the time while they screw the people who have to live and work here 100% of the time.  Whether it is
the destruction
of St. Vincent’s Hospital, the over development of
Flushing Meadows Corona Park , the planned
waste transfer facility
in family neighborhood on the
Upper East Side
and tearing down schools for more glass high rises, we ought to stop and asking what the hell is going on?
One must ask Quinn and Rudin :
Am I missing something?  Do Rudin and Quinn have any grander vision for the future of New York? Or is all that they can imagine for the future of this once proud metropolis is that its citizens should be working wage slave servants to those they hope come to populate the similar glass high rises that they continue to build?  Is the only vision you have for New Yorker’s that they should serve the food and drinks, clean the apartments and drive the limousines in this New- New York?  Have certain  Manhattan elites forgotten the true import of New York City’s rich history, the lessons of
Jane Jacobs
and the
‘Future of New York’
she imagined –
a place of hope and expectation ? I wonder about this because all they seem able to imagine is condo’s for the global elite while they rip apart the ties that bind our community of citizens.  We all need to go on a
Jane Jacobs Walk
if we want to avoid the
complete and total cultural collapse
of our metropolis and avoid a
“Dark Age Ahead.”
Christine Quinn is unacceptable. I hope and expect that the chorus will be amplified my fellow citizens in that regard in the months ahead.  Quinn’s ‘identity politics’ must lose at the polls if we are to preserve New York as a place of hope and expectation for future generations.
************
REFERENCE LINKS -
The Anti-Quinn Grassroots Movement
Key Websites:
Vote Quinn Out
|
Facebook: Defeat Christine Quinn
|
Facebook: Queers Against Christine Quinn
|  The Campaign to Be Mayor of NYC in 2013
|
Jim Owles Liberal Democratic Club
– Chelsea Democratic Club | Facebook:
The Outer Boroughs of New York City Against Christine Quinn
|  Save Flushing Meadow Park : from developer friends of Bloomberg and Quinn
Constituent Abandonment:
A Democratic Club (Jim Owles Club) Continues its War on Christine Quinn
|  Capital New York: Actress Cynthia Nixon endorses Bill de Blasio, Criticizes Quinn over Paid Sick Leave
|
Anybody But Quinn | City & State NY
|
Citizens Union: Council Politics Taint Discretionary Funding
Quinn Slush Fund Scandal –
NY Magazine: Quinn in the Slush
|
NY Times: NYC Council Speaker Presides Over $4.5 Million Slush Fund
|
Pauline Park: Christine Quinn the NYC Slush Fund Scandal
|
Christine Quinn Sold Out: Quinn Slush Fund Lawsuit Update
|
NY Times: Christine Quinn Uses NYC Council Funds to Reward Allies
|
Bronx Chatter: Quinn, Seabrook & the Slush Fund Scandal
RUDIN Family Blood Condos – SATANIC LUXURY:
Rudin Family Blood Condos
| St. Vincent’s Hospital to Close in Manhattan
|
NY Times: The Decline of St. Vincent’s Hospital
|
Norman Siegel Calls to Mayor to Open Investigation to City Council Hospital Hearing St. Vincent’s Site
|   Tom Allon Slams Quinn For St. Vincent’s Closure
|
Suzannah B. Troy (NY Artist):NY Post Christine Quinn our Belladonna Porn Queen [Killed] St. Vincent’s Hospital
|
The Surreal Shutdown of St. Vincent’s
Repeal of Term Limits –
Term Limits & Christine Quinn
|
Christine Quinn Wants to be Mayor of NYC
|
WSJ: City Council Speaker Defends Power to Overrule Voters on Term Limits
|
Boss Quinn Will Do Anything to Win to Become First Gay Mayor : insults constituent in her own district by referring to him as a no-name blogger. |
NPR: Christine Quinn Never Supported Term Limits
|
Facebook -The Day Democracy Died: 3rd Anniversary of Quinn’s Repeal of Term Limits
|
NY Magazine: How Bill DeBlasio Can Defeat Christine Quinn
Character, Integrity & Temperament –
The New Corrupt Adventures of Old Christine
|
Christine Quinn: Corrupt Democrat of the Week
|   The Epoch Times: Challenging Quinn A Risk For NYC Council Members
|
Why Quinn Must Go | The Voice of the West Village
|
Politicker: Christine Quinn Storms Out of Living Wage Rally
Twitter:
Stop Christine Quinn
|
Christine Quinn
|
**HISTORICAL FOOTNOTES**
1. St. Vincent’s Hospital – Epicenter of AIDS Crisis
St. Vincent’s Hospital | AIDS Memorial Park : St. Vincent’s Hospital did not turn its back on the  LGBT Community
during  the AIDS Crisis , quite the opposite in fact. St. Vincent’s was the epicenter of  the AIDS Crisis . I am pretty sure that the entity’s compassionate policies exemplified for its care for those that nobody else would care for, destroyed its balance sheet. Yet, the humanity of the institution was not reciprocated by the liberal elites from Boss Quinn to  Bette Midler
of  New York Restoration Project ,  Landmarks Preservation Commission , Susan Sarandon,  Rosie O’Donnell
et al etc.  Perhaps they would rather have a luxury condo and toast  in restoring
the  Continental Baths
at  the Ansonia
or  Studio 54
than fighting for a Catholic
Hospital. You see, it is truly important to put in the Mayor’s Mansion, a woman who enables the corruption of NYC Insiders in backroom deals. Enabling  her sponsor :  Bill Rudin
of the  ABNY – Association For A Better New York
to build luxury condos over the corpse of a Landmark medical treatment facility is critical, because its not like we have enough of them already in this town. The physicians, nurses and staff were there for the West Village Community during the AIDS Epidemic but the  politically corrupt , grandstanding and  annoyingly verbose, self serving and pontificating windbag
-  Tom Duane
and his protege Christine Quinn turned their back on St. Vincent’s in its hour of need. History will show that those running
St. Vincent’s Catholic Medical Center
made a huge mistake in letting in the vultures:
Rudin Management Company, Inc . For years leading up to its 2010 closing, St. Vincent’s was the target of a controversial billion-dollar  luxury condo conversion plan
by the  Rudin real estate dynasty . Quinn’s Sponsor, Crony Capitalist Vulture Bill Rudin long had plans to develop Luxury Condo’s on the landmark site of the 160 year old hospital and chapel. With the assistance of Speaker Quinn,
State Senator Tom Duane
and a media campaign hatched and waged by societal elites in the shadows of society, the true vampires pulled the strings to enable Quinn’s sponsors: the Rudin clan to shutter a historic humanitarian medical institution and acquire for pennies on the dollar a landmark property of the 160 year old medical treatment facility and leaving the Lower West Side of Manhattan without a trauma hospital.  Maybe someone should ask Bill Rudin who leads the Association For a Better New York whether more luxury condos for celebrities is preferable for a better New York than a critical hospital to treat its citizens in a vulnerable part of Manhattan.
2. QUINN & DUANE – LGBT Elites & Media Campaign Assisted Rudin Family in Acquiring/Stealing St. Vincent’s Hospita l
Background:
St. Vincent’s Catholic Medical Center
(wiki)
The Vultures Gain Access:
St. Vincent’s
‘Let’s in the Vultures’
( Rudin Management Company, Inc ): For years leading up to its 2010 closing, St. Vincent’s was the target of a controversial billion-dollar
luxury condo conversion plan
by the
Rudin real estate dynasty . As noted by the following article, the vultures initially promised something quite different then before commencing construction decided that a hospital was impractical. See:   The Villager: St. Vincent’s and Rudin unveil elliptical hospital, condo tower : St. Vincent’s Hospital and the Rudin Organization last week revealed their preliminary plans for a new state-of-the-art hospital building on the west side of Seventh Ave. and for the residential redevelopment on the east side of the present hospital complex.
Orchestrated Media Campaign Leading to Closure:
St. Vincent’s Hospital to Close in Manhattan
|
NY Times: The Decline of St. Vincent’s Hospital
The Plan:
DNAinfo.com: Rudin’s St. Vincents Plan Debated at City Planning Hearing
|
Curbed: Plans Filed For Latest Aspect of St. Vincent’s Redevelopment
|
Observer: Rudin’s St. Vincent Project Gets Green Light From Planning Commission
|
CRAINS: Last Minute Deal Saves St. Vinnie’s Redevelopment
| SATANIC LUXURY:
Rudin Family Blood Condos
with an
AIDS Memorial Park
The Luxury Condos :
130 West 12th Street
Community Outrage:
Coalition For A New Village Hospital
|
Hospital Now: Coalition Calling for Re-establishment of a Medical Center for Lower West Side of Manhattan
|
Video: Community Outrage at Rudin Family, Mayor & Quinn
|
Senator Tom Duane Shamed on St. Vincent’s Hospital Closing
|
Norman Siegel Calls to Mayor to Open Investigation to City Council Hospital Hearing St. Vincent’s Site
|   Tom Allon Slams Quinn For St. Vincent’s Closure
|
Rudin Family Blood Condos
On The Memorial
–
NYC AIDS Memorial Park Competition
|  Queerty: St. Vincent’s Hospital NYC Epicenter of AIDS Crisis to Become [Rudin Built] Luxury Condos
|  The Villager: Should AIDS Be Part or All of Park Triangle Memorial?
AIDS History (selected) :
Avert: History of AIDS up to 1986
|  AIDS & Politics – 1980 to 1989 |  PBS: 10 Films that Address the Aids Crisis
|  Contrarian View:
Virus Myth: HIV & AIDS – In 80’s, Fear Spread Faster Than AIDS
|  The Changing Face of Gay Men’s Sexuality in Response to AIDS
On Toasting the Elite Crony Capitalists: Oh yes,  I am sure we will have a nice little Memorial and a cute fundraiser or cocktail party hosted by the Rudin’s, Quinn and all their elite friends but it will not make up for the elimination of this critical and vital NY institution.
THE ROMNEY CON’S LAST STAND IN OHIO: GOVERNOR KASICH SAYS “OHIO IS IN THE BAG”
October 29
Filed under
words
by Chris |
0 comments
CLOSING ON DECEPTION:
Claims to Romney Momentum, Lead in Polls, Romney Supported Auto Bailout and that “Ohio is in the bag” for Romney –
GOP PSYOPS
ROMNEY LEAD: A Myth?
The Romney Con of America
is in full force and effect in battleground Ohio.     ‘The Great White Hope’
is doubling and tripling down on deception spreading
misinformation, lies and fear
about President Obama  in an effort to churn out the angry white vote and low information voters.  Whether
Romney’s Mythmentum
is a ‘white lie’ in an attempt to build a narrative of inevitability in the final eight days as the election draws to a close or an expression of prophecy from the Mormon’s White Horse is not certain but is contrary to the existing evidence. Nevertheless,  hopefully, a majority of Americans  learn the truth
before it is too late. Even the
Boston Globe
would not endorse Mitt Romney nor would the
Salt Lake Tribune
in Utah, a Mormon stronghold where Romney has all the advantages, even despite his
China Pin-Drome
where memorabilia manufactured in China for the games in Salt Lake bore
his likeness .
Buzzfeed reported : “As head of the Salt Lake Olympics Mitt Romney  became the first
Olympic executive to approve a series of commemorative pins in his likeness.” It seems the
Mittster
has always been rather obsessed with myth building and burnishing his legacy as a savior.
Romney’s lead in the polls is contrary to leading authorities:
NY Times: 538 blog -Nate Silver’s Political Calculus ,
the Cook Political Report
&
Reuters/Ipsos .   Notably,
Reuters reports
that ‘voters most battered by the economy still favor President Obama’. As New York Magazine reports
‘Romney Says He’s Winning – It’s a Bluff’ .
Romney momentum narrative is not grounded in fact .
ON AUTO BAILOUT: Romney Campaign’s Attempt to De-Fraud America’s Heartland
“Mitt Romney has so little economic patriotism that even his money needs a passport.” - Former Ohio Governor, Ted Strickland
In November of 2008, Mitt Romney famously penned an Op-Ed piece in the NY Times entitled
“Let Detroit Go Bankrupt”
but then in his debate back tracked stating
“saying I would let Detroit go bankrupt is the height of silliness.”
But most commentators recognize that Romney’s plan would have resulted in a Chapter 7 liquidation of major auto manufacturers and not a managed restructuring under Chapter 11 with federal financing that preserved the supply chain and greater equity in the industry. Americans have a right to question Romney’s economic patriotism for
his duplicity
and complete lack of sincerity.
Republican Harry Wilson ,
Former US Auto Task Force Adviser , has
broken free
from the Romney deception in his willingness to acknowledge openly that
‘Romney’s Auto Bailout Claim is ‘Simply Not True’ . As stated in the Nation, quoting Wilson backing away from Romney’s claims about his position on the bailout:
The Detroit News  endorsed Romney recently —an endorsement cited in Romney’s ad—but still branded his bailout philosophy “wrongheadedness,” and made the same point Wilson did:
“Romney suggested government-backed loans to keep the companies afloat post bankruptcy. What GM and Chrysler needed were bridge loans to get them through the process, and the private markets were unwilling to provide them.”
The Romney ad, of course, omits this condemnation.
See also:
Daily Kos : Republican Harry Wilson: “What Romney says about auto bailout is not true.” |  The Nation : Republican Harry Wilson Says Romney’s Auto Bailout Claim Is ‘Simply Not True’ |  Bloomberg : Harry Wilson Interview Excerpt on Necessity of Auto Bailout.
IN OHIO: ROMNEY EXPANDS ON HIS BIG LIE ON AUTO BAILOUT IN GAMBIT TO DECEIVE CHRYSLER WORKERS
The Romney Con, in a
‘deceptive, desperate gambit for Ohio’ , went a step further than lying about support of Obama’s auto bailout by attempting to perpetrate a complete and  total FRAUD
on American auto workers. Stoking fear in Obama’s blue collar Ohio coalition, Romney told  ‘a false scare story in Ohio’
alleging that Jeep/Chrysler was  planning to move
production to China.
See also:
New Romney ad misleads on auto bailout
|  Romney Jeep Ad Continues To Provoke Controversy
|  WP: The Morning Plum: Romney’s false scare story in Ohio
|
Daily Kos: Romney, losing Ohio, tells his biggest lie
|   TNR: A Desperate, Deceptive Gambit for Romney in Ohio
|  The Romney Campaign’s Big Ohio Lie Has Its Own Commercial Now
|  WP: Calling Romney’s lie what it is: A lie
|
Mothers Jones: Mitt Romney Gets Desperate in Ohio
|   Collapse – Obama for America TV Ad
HACKING DEMOCRACY: “Ohio is in the Bag” – Again?
Visit NBCNews.com for
breaking news ,
world news , and
news about the economy
FACT :   The Romney family
has a
personal ownership interest
(through the investment firms Solamere and H.I.G. Capital) in
Hart Intercivic , which owns, maintains, programs and will tabulate alleged votes on machines in the critical swing states of Ohio, Florida, Virginia and Colorado. Despite an almost total  blackout
from the corporate media and various official disclaimers, the election could be decided on Hart machines producing “vote counts” with little connection to how 18 million people actually voted. (Source: The Free Press, October 26, 2012:
Why Romney has already won this election, unless ….)
Ohioans have by now have come to realize that Republican Governor John Kasich is no
‘Plain Dealer’
but simply just another cheap shill for
the Plutocratcy , one who benefits from favorable employment statistics because
President Obama (and his policies) saved Ohio
and less from his own magnificent leadership.   Governor John Kasich’s
words that  “Romney has Ohio in the bag” on
Meet the Press
are quite troubling given the history of electoral fraud including the
hacking the vote
in Ohio,
rigged voting machines
combined with
Romney/Priebus crime syndicate
ties to
electoral fraud in 2011-2012
election cycle,  and the
Romney ownership/controlling interest
in the company which owns the voting machines which will tabulate votes in the key battleground state of Ohio, among others.  This ought to be viewed as a warning to forces on the ground and the media that there is an earnest effort to push Romney across the finish line with deception if necessary. But it may also be part of a greater overall
voter suppression effort
that includes destruction of voter registration forms, restriction of voting hours and an effort to
drive down democratic registration
and voter turnout. As postured by another commentator
‘Romney [is] willing to win without honor’ . Ohioans should not be fooled and continue to vote early whenever possible and
come out in droves for Obama on election day without being deterred by more
Republican Psyops.
The bottom line is that Mitt Romney does not exhibit the honesty, integrity and character to lead America, not just through
the Frankenstorm
where he would have
dismantled FEMA , but to move this nation Forward through uncharted waters. He has
‘a truthfulness problem’ .   Trust matters . This is why I expect that voters in Ohio and other battleground states will in the end turn away from the Romney Con and the
Great White Hope’s
attempt to fool low information voters and others lured by deployment of
race baiting surrogates
and continued use of
racist code language .
FINAL WISH: Kate Upton (American Bombshell) or Strassburger Meats (Prime Steak)
July 13
Filed under
Americana ,
Endorsements
by Chris |
0 comments
AMERICAN BOMBSHELL vs. STRASSBURGER MEAT
Unless you have been living under a rock, have not passed by a news stand or do not have access to the internet, it would be hard not to have born witness to the
July 2012 GQ
cover and the
full photo shoot
featuring
Kate Upton: American Bombshell . And if you had, you certainly did not forget the
2012: Sports Illustrated Swimsuit Issue cover
also bearing her striking frame and
all American beauty . Some have even stupidly asked whether
“she is too heavy”
to be on Vogue or GQ covers. As writer
Lynn Yeager
postulates rather succinctly in Vogue,
Kate Upton: Bringing Sexy Back . Remind when being ridiculously and objective off the charts beautiful was not fashionable?
To make a point, I was in a conversation recently with a friend waxing philosophic about a variety of different scenarios along the lines of “what would you do if?” We got on the topic of the granting of our final wish in the event we were convicted of a heinous crime (e.g., like calling Kate Upton “fat”) and were set for execution. What would we choose as our final experience before departing this earth? Most often this usually comes down to the granting of a final meal request. My friend knows all too well my passion for a perfectly prepared medium-rare
Strassburger Steak ,  from the local New York  family owned company that for five generations has been been supplying the region’s best steakhouses. I usually prefer to have
Strassburger Meats
prepared on my brother Erich’s high end grill in  Douglaston
or at  Smith & Wollensky . Led by CEO, Suzanne Strassburger who also pens the
Sirloin Report , the company known for its artisan meats is becoming increasingly well known for its
all natural meats
marketed as  Suzy Sirloin
which have allowed me to eat meat with greater frequency. I am now obsessed with their sliders and sausages which I prepare a couple of times per week in my own home. Frankly, they are addictive.  If you order
Suzy Sirloin
once  by calling  (212) 876-2289, like me you will become addicted and incorporate it into a healthy diet.
Sensing this was a trick question, I offered that “if I was sentenced to death and was given one final wish before execution, I would either want a black and blue
STRASSBURGER STEAK , a huge
Idaho Potato
smothered in creamy
Organic butter
with sour cream, chives and bacon and washed down with
S.Pellegrino
or
Evamor Water
and an endless bottle of
Opus One
or a simply one night with KATE UPTON.” My friend was shocked but nodded in agreement and said it is a toss up, between just the
Strassburger Meats
– Prime Steak and  Kate Upton , without all the other fixings. I said true but you have to paint a picture and I did not get to go on about starting with
Clams Casino
or a Caesar Salald but with fresh
Jersey Tomatoes
nor did I reference whether Kate had to be fashionably attired, “Vogued out” or simply in her SI Swimsuit.  Finally nothing herein is meant to imply that I see Kate simply as a piece of meat even if my final two choices come down to the leading American Bombshell versus the bestPrime in America in  Strassburger Meats . In either case, I would go out with a smile on my face.
AMERICAN PSYCHO: ANDREW MADOFF ECHO’S OF PATRICK BATEMAN
June 6
Filed under
Social Studies ,
Society & People
by Chris |
0 comments
ANDREW MADOFF JUST WANTS TO FIT IN
Patrick Bateman
[Andrew Madoff]: I live in the
American Gardens
Building
on
W. 81st Street
on the 11th floor [ The Ponzi Palace
at
Luxe 74
on the
Upper East Side ]. My name is
Patrick Bateman [Andrew Madoff].  I’m 27 [47] years old. I believe in taking care of myself and a balanced diet and rigorous exercise routine [that includes fly fishing with
my sexy partner ]. In the morning if my face is a little puffy I’ll put on an ice pack while doing stomach crunches [followed by
long distance biking
around Manhattan and
Central Park
when I cannot do
my usual longer routes ]. I can do 1000 now.  [ I do 125 miles per week now ]. After I remove the ice pack I use a deep pore cleanser lotion. In the shower I use a water activated gel cleanser, then a honey almond body scrub, and on the face an exfoliating gel scrub. Then I apply an herb-mint facial mask which I leave on for 10 minutes while I prepare the rest of my routine. I always use an after shave lotion with little or no alcohol, because alcohol dries your face out and makes you look older. Then moisturizer, then an anti-aging eye balm followed by a final moisturizing protective lotion. There is an idea of a Patrick Bateman [Andrew Madoff] some kind of abstraction, but there is no real me. Only an entity–something illusory.
And though I can hide my cold gaze and you can shake my hand and feel flesh gripping yours, and maybe you can eve sense our lifestyles are probably comparable. I simply am not there.
Andrew Madoff
appears to share something in common with
victims
of the
Madoff Ponzi Scheme,
many of whom since losing their life savings have had a hard time keeping a roof over their head. While he has still not been convicted of any crime, according to
Jennifer Gould Keil
of the
New York Post
, “Bernie Madoff’s son and future daughter-in-law are desperately trying to land a downtown apartment [a rather exclusive one] but can’t — because building owners don’t want to be associated with them.”
DESPERATELY S EEKING RESERVATION AT DORSIA
Evelyn Williams : Your father practically owns the company. You can do anything you like, silly.
Patrick Bateman : I don’t want to talk about it.
Evelyn Williams : You hate that job anyway. I don’t see why you just don’t quit.
Patrick Bateman : Because I want to fit in.
Andrew Madoff
and his book writing fiance, a
disaster preparedness entrepreneur
and
‘fly fishing fantasy’ , are having trouble getting a suitable
$20,000 per month
luxury apartment rental in New York City. This is not at all surprising to me, because even in high society circles and assorted private conversations, my general sense is that few believe that Ruth, Andrew, Mark, Peter, Shaina et el etc.  were not on some level complicit or had knowledge of the fraud well before the orchestrated turning in of their father for his crimes against the people who dared to trust him and
Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities, LLC . Andrew it seems is  still trying , after all that has transpired,  to get a reservation at  Dorsia
on
Friday Night
so he can enjoy the  “great sea urchin ceviche”
and continue to live in a manner and style that he had grown accustomed to.
ANDREW MADOFF’S NEW BUSINESS CARD:  WANTS TO BE YOUR UMBRELLA…ELLA ELLA
Art mimics life and sometimes life mimics art. For some reason, to this day, I cannot fathom the innocence of Bernie Madoff’s spawn, Andrew Madoff. When you examine the manner and style with which
Andrew Madoff
conducts himself during the
media crusade
that he and his former paramour, a
petite brunette bombshell
and now fiance  Catherine Hooper
have orchestrated with the marketing of their  Black Umbrella
enterprise, it is so
coolly reminiscent
of Christian Bale playing
Patrick Bateman
in
American Psycho , the film based on the novel by  Bret Easton Ellis . And it’s not just their sharing in common icy cold good looks but rather an odd unapologetic pre-occupation with their own
inner universe ,
societal standing
and
social status
to the exclusion of all else, even in a world gone truly mad. You see the man who recently
rented out
his $4.3 million condo on the Upper East Side, which is the same building as
the unit
of
the disgraced
and
disgraceful
Ken Starr who was married to stripper/socialite
Diane Passage , for
$25,000
per month, just  simply
wants to fit in . While Madoff has
a new business card , he might even be content to be  mistaken for Halberstram
as he finds a city of
Paul Allen’s
a step ahead of him.  Nevertheless, Andrew Madoff and his
’special lady friend’
the visually delectable   Catherine Hooper
who has Andy’s name
branded on her ass , want to be
your umbrella , ella ella ay ay….
His mother
Ruth Madoff
who famously
blamed the gentiles
“for all of this”, clearly
does not fit in
in New York City and was even banned from the one membership we shared in common,   Equinox Fitness
(although
Ruthie paid much more
for her
‘E Membership’ ), is now comfortably and
conveniently housed
in his home in   Old Greenwich, Connecticut . Consider that as the security and life of many was about to crumble on the eve of the disclosure of the Madoff Fraud, Bernie’s
junior  spawn
and his pretty young thing were planning
a rich new life
together and are now simply in execution mode for that post Ponzi plan. But what of the
Deborah & Andy Madoff Foundation
after the rather
conveniently timed
announcement of their divorce?
Evelyn Williams : Your father practically owns the company. You can do anything you like, silly.
Patrick Bateman : I don’t want to talk about it.
Evelyn Williams : You hate that job anyway. I don’t see why you just don’t quit.
Patrick Bateman : Because I want to fit in.
Andrew Madoff Wants to Know, Do you like Huey Lewis & the News?
In fairness, as far as I know, Andrew has not played
Huey Lewis and the News
while
wielding an axe
and hacking his
frenemies
to death,
placing them in body bags, hanging them in closets at
433 East 74th Street
or otherwise deftly disposing them. This is so I suspect regardless of any lingering conspiracy theories surrounding the death of his
introspectively whin y and
apparently desperate
older brother,
Mark Madoff
who was
found hanging
in his own
luxury Soho abode , after an alleged  period of
abject misery , and perhaps before he could open his
big mouth
any further.  Whether Mark is in the
witness protection program
or six feet under of his own free will and volition or via explicit instruction or with assistance is something that many wonder, especially given the times we live in, including the odd death of
“one of the largest philanthropic frauds in American history”
in
Jeffry Picower , a major
Madoff beneficiary
who was found
at the bottom of his Palm Beach pool a year before Mark was found dead.
The foregoing being said, were I in
Andrew’s shoes , I might have exercised a greater degree of humility and not sought press to obtain sympathy. Likewise, I would not have pursued procuring high end abodes in the most upscale neighborhoods and highest profile buildings in Manhattan. You see because in doing so you thereby invite reminders that while
many victims
were rendered destitute via the
Madoff Ponzi scheme , I, on the other hand, the son who worked for the company led by my convicted criminal father, one who was a sophisticated trader with a
Wharton MBA
no less who   denies prior knowledge
of and claims innocence to the actions of the leader of what many believe was a
criminal family enterprise
even though
whistle blowers
like
Harry Markopolos
had
long been on
to my father, still have so many millions left that I can pose fully attired in
designer black garb with my lovely lady in Red
in
fluff pieces
promoting
our enterprise
born of the fraud of my father, all while shopping for $20,000 per month rentals.
Consider the words of
one passionate commenter
who quotes financial reporter Erin Arvedlund on
Amazon Reviews
in
a scathing critique
of the Madoff script,
Truth and Consequences: Life Inside the Madoff Family
by
Laurie Sandell :
Erin Arvedlund , a serious financial reporter who wrote for Barrons and who penned
the very first
article
questioning Madoff
and who wrote the book  Too Good To Be True: The Rise And Fall Of Bernie Madoff , captures the situation best:
“Andrew was the head of the firm’s
Nasdaq
trading desk; so why did he redeem nearly $15 million in Dell trades-an important
Nasdaq
listing-that took place before he ever opened the account? Where is the rest of the $60 million he withdrew from all his accounts and why haven’t the family members given the money back to victims?
All one needs to do is review the trustee’s suit against the Madoff family members which shows: a) Peter Madoff “invested” $32,000 in the hedge fund and redeemed $17 million; b) Mark Madoff “invested” $745,000 in and took out $18 million and c) Andrew “invested” $900,000 and took out $17 million. And these profits were made on trades that never took place in the phony hedge fund.
Excerpts from the suit: “Mark and Andrew Madoff supervised trading at the company’s proprietary trading and market-making operations. They were, therefore, aware at all times–or, at the very least, should have been aware–of the trading volume and price ranges of the stocks traded… They knew or should have known that the profits and executions described in customers’ account statements, including their own, did not correspond to actual market conditions.”
“Andrew made most of the phony trades in his account #1M0140. No money was invested into this account, yet he redeemed over $14.5 million between 1998 and November 2008. A July 21, 1998 entry on the account statement shows that the Dell shares were purportedly `sold,’ generating a gain of $1,985,000. Three days later, on or about July 24, 1998, he redeemed $1,956,205 from this account.”
“The trustee discovered $60 million transferred to Andrew Madoff or to entities on his behalf. Between 2001 and 2008, Andrew was paid $31,105,505 in salary and bonus. His compensation included bonuses of over $4.8 million in 2006, and over $9 million in 2007, alone. Beyond this amount, Andrew seeks an additional $40,624,525 in deferred compensation.” (not a typo…he says he’s owed more money after the Ponzi scheme collapsed).
Now, Andrew and his
trophy wife
have hired a p.r. firm to promote this book, to put a positive spin on the remnant of their sociopathic family and to generate some cash flow.”
ANDREW MADOFF IS HIP TO BE SQUARE
Andrew Madoff is
Patrick Batemen
in American Psycho. Or he is at least perhaps the kind of cat that the
then controversial
young
hot shot author ,   Bret Easton Ellis
must have had in mind when he penned the book of the
same name .  Watch this guy’s manner on
interview clips
on youtube. It is so clear to anyone paying attention, that beneath a
cool, calm and calculating
exterior lurks a real life
‘American Psycho’ , one of the kind that even
Christian Bale
himself would be impressed. The guy’s
sense of style
and timing is impeccable in picking up an objectively beautiful younger woman with a crisis management business plan in
Catherine Hooper
and her
Black Umbrella , who he became partners and moved in with, just three days before his father confessed to the fraud that shook the world, and the sons arranged for turning him in,  while his divorce was still pending.  If
Bret Easton Ellis
is truly contemplating an  American  Psycho sequel , he need look no further than Andrew Madoff for inspiration.  The Madoff media campaign has similarly
left victims cold .
Remember always, with folks in crisis management mode, operating pursuant to the right
disaster management
plan,  nothing is random or accidental nor is who is left standing and why. Think about that before you pick out a
Black Umbrella . Allow your mind to wander and then ask yourself what interests are served for accountability being placed squarely on one man’s shoulders and allowing the rest of the family, including Andrew to escape scrutiny and prosecution.
OF KINGS & QUEENS I AM
May 4
Filed under
Human Relations ,
Social Studies ,
Society & People
by Chris |
0 comments
Bridge & Tunnel Nobility: One Time King of Corona
My friends, I must confess that I was born of Queens and was raised  and lived among Kings & Queens….counties, that is; a veritable Earl of
Sheepshead Bay
and one time Prince of
Kew Gardens
and perhaps even a
King of Corona , long before
‘Me and Julio [were spotted] down by the school yard’ , at
P.S. 14
on Otis Avenue or even at the
Corona Ice King
(raspberry or cherry please) or striking balls with bats in the
national pastime
down at
Flushing Meadows Corona Park .  On a side note, though we thought we were wonderfully talented we had no
Tom Terrific
from our
favorite local franchise
of fellow
Metropolitan’s
among us. In those days a
Cosmopolitan
was a a magazine for women. Today, however, we can all happily drink from the same vines as   Tom Seaver ,
Mr. George Thomas Seaver
– to be polite, in a full bodied product from the
Seaver Vineyards
as if every day was a
simply amazing
one
in 1969 .
I am thus a man of
Bridge & Tunnel nobility
and a veritable Royal Class of New Yorkers, a regular reader of
New York’s Hometown Newspaper
and
“All the News That’s Fit to Print.”
Please do know of course that I have never sought to trade off that standing and have instead settled for walking among the people, along side of folks like you.
Truth  told, my preferred carriage or mode of transport was always rather regal. My taste in that regard has not changed.  In my youth it was the
D, E & F trains . In later years when I came to reside on the other side of the moat in Manhattan, I took the green numbered cars of
4,5 & 6
while living in
Carnegie Hill
for the better part of a decade, and even the Red ones of
1,2 & 3
(much like I took the
Red Line
and the
Green Line
while living in the Boston/Cambridge areas during my days in New England) when I moved to the
Upper West Side / Morningside Heights . Notably, in recent years, due to the works of
quintessential New York leaders
like the former
Mayor of New York City , a
Prince of the City
who led
the turnaround
of New York City and who later came  to be known as America’s Mayor in   Rudolph W. Giuliani
and the
Alliance of Guardian Angels
led by
Curtis Sliwa , my means of transport has been increasingly secure, with minimal risk of stage coach robberies which Americans of an earlier age were subjected to while traveling in or across this region.*  (* Note : Yes,  there are critics and more
nuanced views
of the
Giuliani legacy , yet whatever one thinks, lessons due remain for future leaders who will look to aspects of his success referenced in
Fred Siegel :
“The Prince of the City: Giuliani, New York and the Genius of American Life”
to shape their governance. This legacy has continued under
Commissioner Raymond Kelly
and
Mayor Mike Bloomberg , one of the greatest philanthropists in this period of American history, even though their leadership styles have been different.)
This is simply how I roll as a man of privilege, class and style.  Yet, in this whole debate about the 1% vs. the 99%, sometimes the shortsighted acts of others simply force me to accept that I simply  might be a tad better than both — at times.  Capische?
Despite the royal lineage referenced herein and previous coverage of fundraising affairs of the  Central Park Conservancy , I found myself on the outside looking in this past week as I was denied for  the first time in the past 8 years as the Editor & Founder of ManhattanSociety.com,  the opportunity to cover the famed  FLO Luncheon
or Hat Luncheon, one of the  more regal
fundraisers for the  Central Park Conservancy
hosted by the  Women’s Committee . It had me wondering whether it was my association with one of the parks in the outer boroughs that cost me my societal standing with an elite group of proud  Upper East Side
Manhattanites committed to the maintenance of  the people’s park
at the heart of our metropolis. Why a private non-profit, managing a space in the public trust would choose to manage, control or limit social or society press that had afforded it and its benefactors and honorees traditionally positive coverage, in such a manner is curious. But I diverge and will explore this in my next blog post.
Next Page »
Design © 2006 by
the undersigned
| Redesigned by Meagan
sex toys vibrator
buy erythromycin topical solution
weight loss when starting synthroid
non bacterial prostatitis bactrim
azithromycin oral suspension
acyclovir pricing