junk junkies
REJECT SHOP @Austin Heights
J un k
j unki e s
profile
junk junkies.
Its about the combination of the different
elements
in life.
The maximum usage of the 5 major senses our body holds for us.
its about
life , and how we want to influence you,and everybody.
to love it more.
tagboard
flyaways
galzbible
Keigo
YC
»
May 2010
»
June 2010
»
July 2010
»
August 2010
©
AmericanRoyalty
others:
* étoile filante ,
x_empty
Monday, May 31, 2010
Roma Downey in A Girl Name Jackey.
Love, YC
random types
Shop's internet is down today....hence,i'm getting a bit jitsy here... but!!!.... without internet,i actually did quite a lot of stuff!!... i managed to pack a lot of accessories in a very tidy manner...well prepared to be sent in for selection....Harper's Bazaar's photoshoot i'm talking about now.(^-^). pictures...errr...up be up early nex week...we hope! love, YC
Do you know?!
The origins of the term are disputed, but some have observed that buyers and sellers may be as active as
fleas ,
or that the original people and goods were infested.
According to
Word and Phrase Origins , the term was derived from the "Vallie Market" of Manhattan.
The original flea market may be the
Marché aux puces
("market with fleas" in French) of
Saint-Ouen ,
Seine-Saint-Denis , in the northern suburbs of
Paris . It is a large, long-established outdoor bazaar, one of four in Paris. From the late 17th century, the makeshift open-air market in the town of Saint-Ouen began as temporary stalls and benches among the fields and market gardens where ragpickers exchanged their findings for a small sum. and you darlings that goes to our JUNK SALES...am not fleas at alll!!... (^_^) lovelove, YC
GORILLAZ...my long long love with them.
Gorillaz
is a musical project created in 1998 by
Damon Albarn
of
Britpop
band
Blur
and British cartoonist
Jamie Hewlett , co-creator of the
comic book
Tank Girl . In the mainstream and commercial outlets it is known as a " virtual band " because for their image and promotion, instead of displaying the musicians of the band, it has used a group of comic book characters. The "virtual band" is composed of four animated members:
2D
(lead vocalist, keyboard), Murdoc Niccals
(bass guitar),
Noodle
(guitar and occasional vocals) and
Russel Hobbs
(drums and percussion). The music is a collaboration between various musicians, Albarn being the only permanent musical contributor. Their style is a composition of multiple musical genres, with a large number of their influences including:
dub ,
hip hop ,
alternative rock ,
electronic
and pop music.
The band's 2001 debut album
Gorillaz
sold over seven million copies and earned them an entry in the
Guinness Book of World Records
as the Most Successful Virtual Band. It was nominated for the
Mercury Prize
2001, but the nomination was later withdrawn at the band's request. Their second studio album,
Demon Days , was released in 2005 and included the singles " Feel Good Inc. ", " Dare ", " Dirty Harry " and " Kids with Guns "/" El Mañana ".
Demon Days
went five times platinum in the UK,
double platinum
in the United States
and earned five
Grammy Award
nominations for 2006
and won one of them in the
Best Pop Collaboration with Vocals
category. [ 8 ]
Gorillaz have also released two B-sides compilations and a remix album. The combined sales of
Gorillaz
and
Demon Days
had, by 2010, exceeded 20 million albums. The band's third studio album, titled
Plastic Beach , was released in 2010. On 26 May 2010, it was announced that the band would replace
U2
as
Glastonbury Festival
headliners. YC
Gorillaz - Russell's Plastic Beach Ident (HD)
Gorillaz - Stylo (Full Version HD Music Video Clip) - Works in All Count...
Sunday, May 30, 2010
colorful people,colorful life,colorful relationship.
to day....is a freakish day... i think i have sort of figured how my future will look like...how my life will be. a very pleasant talk session,has perked up JunkJunkie's very fabulous path lane in anything but better. as YC and Halin and Jeffrey look forward and work darn hard towards making everyone happy & satisfied, we need the blessings of everyone out there ,like everyone!, to give us your kind attention to our work. And before everything..i wanna thank first. If you were already taking note of what we are trying to give to Johor Bahru, and share our passion. Hand in Hand, let's work towards it BABY!!... WEEEEHAAAA....(rodeo shout) love, YC
Saturday, May 29, 2010
Kermit met YC
i ts kermit's lucky day.
YC & Halin decide to get hermit a great wardrobe!. So he as versatile as his papa,as fun as Junk Junkies,as cool a plush to US!!!(^_^).
thus,after i tidy the shop a bit.(its in a mess because of previous night's Ju nkSale.),i sat down on our new work are...and set to WORK!. Mini- Chups!. itz really adorable. Kermit getting ready in his new area. Come &
pick up one from Junk Junkies Mount Austin!. Eventually,i finish kermit off with a Rock & Roll Look!.(^_^) YC
Lunch @ shop is always pleasant because it always felt so homey.
29/05/2010
later in the afternoon....i fetched myself....French Fries!... YC
scarf action.
Befriend your scarves!...heee...
....
YC
Laundry Line
Behind every piece of creation, lies a piece of compassion. a sought for beauty, an enhancer's journey. for the multi ways to use a scarf, i cheers to the basic companion for always making my day. i have never love my laundry more, to see them move with the wind. shed their weight with the help of the great and generous sun, and gain beauty. may my life be as colorful as i buy them. YC
Scarf & its wonder.
Transfer a worn basket into a soothing piece of home item. a Basket can be...a magazine holder,laundry basket,plush assemble...etc. (^-^) Love, YC
Breakfast from a drinking Night!.
Okay....here's the story...my friend dis celebrating his birthday with 6OO bottles of beer!. Hence, a very nice little friend i am....i tried helping him finish his orders!, end up....? i was a very happy little girl that evening!. HAHA!. and, i love a good deal of soup the next morning ...and YC always turn to Macaroni Soup from Hong KOng... gift from Carrie. YC
Thursday, May 27, 2010
Amber Smith Story
Early life
The daughter of professional
American football
player
Russ Smith
and Carol Smith,
Smith had started modeling by age 16. As a teenager she traveled to Paris, France, where she worked as a model throughout Europe for four years. Her breakthrough came when her naturally blonde hair was dyed red, giving her a strong resemblance to 1940s and '50s movie star
Rita Hayworth .
Career
Modelling
Smith appeared in back-to-back issues of the
Sports Illustrated Swimsuit Issue , and became
Esquire
magazine's first
Vargas Girl
of the 1990s. She also became the first model of the
Wonderbra
campaign. She later posed for
photographer
Helmut Newton
for a
Wolford
advertising campaign, and was the model for the 2002 lingerie campaign for Venus Victoria, the European sister company to
Victoria's Secret .
Smith has appeared on the covers of the
fashion magazines
and
women's magazines
Vogue ,
Elle ,
Cosmopolitan
and
Marie Claire , among others, and was the
cover girl
for the
March 1995 issue
of
Playboy . She has appeared in
advertising
for
L'Oréal
makeup, Buffalo Jeans,
Camel
cigarettes,
Kahlúa
liqueur,
Volkswagen
automobiles, and
Panama Jack , among others, and has walked the runway for such fashion designers as
Chanel
and
Jean Paul Gaultier . But along all thees big projects,she was heavily addicted to prescription drugs. She spend up to US$45 000 a week just on purchasing drugs.( as quoted on E! entertainment)
Acting
Smith was cast in her first film role in
Paul Mazursky 's
Faithful , on a referral from
Robert DeNiro
that stemmed from her
Casino
auditions. [ 5 ]
She also appeared in
The Funeral , directed by
Abel Ferrara , and
Barbra Streisand 's
The Mirror Has Two Faces . She played Susan Lefferts, a
Rita Hayworth
lookalike, in
Curtis Hanson 's
L.A. Confidential . Smith's resemblance to Hayworth came into play again with a role in
HBO 's cable
telefilm
The Rat Pack . She also had a role in
American Beauty . Her biggest role to date has been as the star of the
Cinemax
TV series
Sin City Diaries , which debuted in 2007. She played Angelica, a Las Vegas entertainment consultant who plans activities for casinos' high-roller guests. Overall, she has played various roles in several 1990's feature films and television series. Since 2000, she has appeared primarily in films. Because of her addiction,she weren't able to work properly. All these weren't able to pay off her addiction bills,in a short time span of 12 months,amber lost her home,her 2 cars & all her savings. She moved into a lowly hotel in Beverley Hills, and took up a job as a call girl,but was spotted by her friend whom took her to an addiction centre.
Reality television appearances Changed Amber's life,she was near to working as a Call Girl and selling her body to earn money.
Smith appeared on
VH1
television show
Celebrity Rehab , which depicted her 16-year struggle struggle with
opiate
and alcohol addiction. She subsequently appeared in the 2009 series
Sober House , a
Celebrity Rehab
spin-off focusing on a
sober living environment . She subsequently appeared in the 2009 VH1 series
Sex Rehab with Dr. Drew . During these appearances, she recounted hers and her mother's histories with addiction and
co-dependency , which began when Smith was a teenager, [ 8 ]
and how her experiences with
date rape
and
prostitution
played a part in those addictions.
That same year, Smith and other alumni of
Celebrity Rehab
appeared as panel speakers to a new group of addicts at the Pasadena Recovery Center. Her appearance, which marked a year and a half of sobriety for her, was aired in the third season episode "Triggers".
In a January
TV Guide
story on
Celebrity Rehab , Dr.
Drew Pinsky
stated she was living with mother in Los Angeles, and "doing stupendous work...She's someone who reaches out and is an inspiration and of service to other patients. " The reason i post this load of words...to prove that life is indeed just like this. we are what we chose we are,and its never too late to repent and mend.(^_^) love, YC
Music of Junk Junkies...YC is working on the Booklet of Junk Junkies's CD to be exported out to various Events Company. But...my time is fantastically very constrained...oh well... http://fairtilizer.com/track/Junk%20Junkies%20May%202010%20Mixtape My Usual say...lovelovelove to all! YC
junksale little talks
Junksale is Coming up tomorrow!! YEAP!, friday the 28t h... and YC is in the very hectic mode of preparing the ladies rack for shoppers tomorrow...there's so many individual pieces that i would love to share with all...but i also come to the conclusion that a packed rack is almost equivalent to a sales flop,shoppers don't have the mood and patience to browse through everything.....Arrrghhhrrrr...itz damn!,a TROPICAL MALAYSI A we're living!,BWAHAHAHAHA~ ,okay,by all means...... here's the deal. I'm seriously seeing light in Johor Bahru's fashion instinct. *KUDOS* Folkies.... Cant wait to see everyone!...and cant wait to drink Kopitiam big bottles of beer with jeffrey & halin. *muackz* YC
Wednesday, May 26, 2010
Greyson Chance Singing Paparazzi
Jeeze,this little dude has the "It" voice... no wonder the hits got it that big on Youtube. *winkz* YC
Junkies Lamp Post closet... Everything @ RM20.
Bohemian, low cut dress. Mixed variety comby. 3 tier multi layered top. English Dress, Dark Blue. Long Polo dress. Orange drop shoulder stripe top. Goes damn well with short shorts. Checked cotton top. Black paired with stripes top. White & Black cardigan... the sewn on horse with its rider ready for POLO. Long sleeve top with stripes.(^O^) I love it.! Checked waistless top with Ribbon. Country style waistless top. Washed out butterfly semi sleeve top. Washed out Beetle grey ,long sleeve top. With flash,you can roughly see the texture. Without flash...its a black,silky like outer cover top. XL, we cater to maximum amount of custmers (^_^) Grey Uniqlo Top. Denim Cotton Dolly Jacket, its light...not heavy. Brown, long cardigan. Button down milk yellow top, suitable as one piece,with tank, or act as a jacket. Celine,Paris. Larger long sleeve cotton top with vintage prints of chains. as your eyes tell...UNIQLO! White Cardigan....something sweet. Vintage top with an intensity. Japan cloth sewn together accompanied by cotton with a bow end. A well sewn japan cloth design. Japan mixed cloth black semi-long sleeve top. Vintage, silky pearl white top. I can imagine how gorgeous it'll look on a well dressed female, applicable to various body shapes. My favourite tee in the Shop...that set my mood tingling with indie music. Vintage top. Very British Country,i felt. A very Munich inspired top, angled colors layering. Vintage intense Red top made with silk. Damn comfy...from YC's private collection. Frock,cotton dress dug out from Halin's collection. Today,i would love to take the opportunity to introduce GuGu World from Japan to Everyone. GuGu world is all about Dogs & their serenity. The overall presentation is sweet & calming. Famous GuGu World Japan, casual long sleeve cotton top. Multi-tier cotton top with lace & rugged stripes. A very "Campelly" long sleeve tee just dug out from Halin's Collection. Little Floral Blouse,wide waist cutting...(and Oh...please pardon the creases....) Here's the soft floral print that got me grasping for air when i first saw it. Lots of LOve! YC