ELOISE MOOREHEAD, I love big, old, beautiful, rundown buildings....
High Res
I love big, old, beautiful, rundown buildings. This shot looks like it was taken near the Metro North railway line - there is so much to see on the route that runs alongside the Hudson River.
Bannerman’s Castle
near Beacon is one of my favorites.
via
tinytomato :
Outside my office in Irvington, NY:
Cosmopolitan Building
(1895)
- This three-story stone
neo-Classical revival
building topped by three small domes was designed by
Stanford White
as the headquarters for
Cosmopolitan
when the magazine moved from New York to Irvington.
John Brisben Walker , who had bought the general interest magazine in 1889, had a mansion in Irvington only a short walk away. In 1897 Walker started a free correspondence school, the Cosmopolitan Educational University Extension. When 20,000 people enrolled, Walker was unable to keep to its offer of a no-cost education for all, and had to ask the students to pay $20 per year. Nevertheless, the venture attracted well known academics to its staff, and public lectures and other events associated with the school were held in the headquarters building. The magazine also sponsored several automobile races from New York to Irvington to promote the automobile.
Cosmopolitan
left Irvington shortly after
William Randolph Hearst
bought the magazine in 1905 and moved it back to New York. Afterwards, the building was used as a silent movie studio for some period of time, but for most of its subsequent history has primarily housed manufacturing concerns of various types, including one that made radio oscillators used by the U.S. Army in World War II, and a company that made looseleaf binders and other paper products. The Cosmopolitan Building still stands, although it is known as the “Trent Building” after the family that owns it, but it is quite run down, and its visage has suffered from pedestrian industrial buildings which were stuck on to its rear, obscuring the eastern facade. The building houses manufacturers, offices, a video production facility, a publisher of art books, interior design firms, a yoga studio, a chapel, photographers, a spa, a florist and event space and at least one restaurant.
(From Wikipedia:
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Irvington,_New_York
- picture by my blackberry)
February 23, 2010
3 notes
Comments
architecture
building
cosmopolitan
neoclassical
new york
stanford white
westchester
william randolph hearst
Please enable JavaScript to view the
comments powered by Disqus.
blog comments powered by
Disqus
suresuresuresuresuresure
likes this eloisemoorehead
reblogged this from
tinytomato eec
likes this tinytomato
posted this
A
blog documenting the
projects ,
inspirations , and
obsessions
of an art, architecture & design devotee
living
and
working
in New York.
E xploring the very low brow, to pop to sub to high culture,
ancient
to
contemporary
art,
minimalism to the minimum ,
maximalism to the maximum , decorative arts in
folk
to baroque, the
great lady decorators , & the
gentlemen
too, the future, the past, trashy to traditional to transitional interior design, and
classical
to
modernist
architecture - all in both human scale and
dollhouse
miniature .
Pinterest
Flickr
Email
Subscribe
Archive