The Saga of the Viking Women and Their Voyage to the Waters of the Great Sea Serpent - MST3K Wiki - Mystery Science Theater 3000 - Wikia
Wikia
Skip to Content
Skip to Wiki Navigation
Skip to Site Navigation
Comics
TV
Movies
Music
Books
Games
Lifestyle
WHAT’S HOT
Empire
Scream Queens
Star vs. the Forces of Evil
FALL PREMIERES
American Horror Story: Hotel
Fargo
Ash vs. Evil Dead
ANIME TO WATCH
Owari no Seraph: Nagoya Kessen-hen
Haikyuu!! Second Season
K: Return of Kings
MOBILE APPS
The Walking Dead
Avatar
Adventure Time
More TV
Search this wikia
Search all of Wikia
Sign In
Register
Username
Password
Forgot your password?
Stay logged in
Or
Connect
Start a wikia
MST3K Wiki Navigation
On the Wiki
Wiki Activity
Random page
Videos
Photos
Chat
Characters
Joel Robinson
Mike Nelson
Tom Servo
Crow T. Robot
Dr. Clayton Forrester
TV's Frank
Pearl Forrester
Cast
Joel Hodgson
Michael J. Nelson
Kevin Murphy
Trace Beaulieu
Frank Conniff
Mary Jo Pehl
Bill Corbett
Episodes
Manos: The Hands of Fate
Santa Claus Conquers the Martians
Danger! Death Ray
The Skydivers
Gamera vs Zigra
more
Recent blog posts
Contribute
Add a Video
Add a Photo
Add a Page
Wiki Activity
Watchlist
Random page
Recent changes
The Saga of the Viking Women and Their Voyage to the Waters of the Great Sea Serpent
1,155 pages on
this wiki
Edit this page
History
Talk 0
317 - The Saga of the Viking Women and Their Voyage to the Waters of the Great Sea Serpent
Air Date
October 26 ,
1991
MST3K Director
Jim Mallon
Movie Director
Roger Corman
Year
1957
Cast
Abby Dalton
Susan Cabot
Bradford Jackson
June Kenney
Short
'' The Home Economics Story''
Preceded by
316 -
Gamera vs Zigra
Followed by
318 -
Star Force: Fugitive Alien II
“
Light the shoebox and throw it in the toilet!
”
— Joel
Contents [ show ]
The Short
The Home Economics Story
Synopsis
Kay wants to go to Iowa State College and major in home economics. She and her friends have a great time in school and learn about the diverse careers that a home ec degree can lead to!
Information
This short was included on
Shorts Vol 1 , released by
Rhino Entertainment
on VHS in July 1998, and on DVD in February 2003 as part of
The Mystery Science Theater 3000 Collection: Volume 2 , a 4-DVD set with
Cave Dwellers ,
Pod People
and
Angels Revenge .
The Movie
Synopsis
The Great Sea Serpent attacks the Viking Women
Some Viking women have been alone for three years ever since their men disappeared on a sea journey and they set out to locate them, only to fall into the clutches of
fearsome enemies .
Abby Dalton is Desir, de facto leader of the Viking women. Vedric is her betrothed, missing for three years.
Susan Cabot
(who went on to play the lead in
The Wasp Woman ),  is Enger. She "hates Desir and wants her man".
Jonathan Haze
is Ottar ("Todd"), "The Littlest Viking".
In the first scene, the women throw spears into a tree to vote on whether to make the journey to find their men. We note that Enger is a -
brunette -  the only one in the group.
In a montage, they assemble a ship and set off, to the accompaniment of a score by
Albert Glasser . Ottar reveals himself once underway. (His presence as the lone male, on the shore or on the boat, is never explained or reacted to.)  Enger immediately sabotages the sail in an effort to injure Desir. Not long after, within the span of about thirty seconds, the group encounters a shark, a sea serpent, a killer storm, a vortex, and their ship is struck and set afire by lightning. They bail, and are washed up on the beach right at the feet of "the Grimwald warriors".
Richard Devon
(Satan from
The Undead ) is Stark, the sarcastic, linguistically talented, urbane Grimwald leader "dressed like Snoopy". Jay Sayer is Prince Senja, son of Stark.
There's a boar hunt (wherein Desir saves Senja's life), a wild party with an arm wrestling contest between Senja (in a
tiara)  and Desir; this turns into a "fight" scene in which Ottar hops over or on top of every object in the room twice, finally jumping on a guy before being waylaid. At some point, the group travels to a well-lit cave to meet the captive male Vikings. We are introduced to Vedric, who seems physically unaffected by three years of hard labor in the "mine" but who reads all of his lines as if his scenes are done before he's had his morning coffee.
Meanwhile, Engar acts like the brunette she is and cozies up to Stark, getting special privileges. She visits Vedric in the cave and offers to free him if he will run away with her. Senja is struck by lightning (which should have received a credit) and is killed.
Will the Vikings get away? Will the nasty Grimwalds get what they deserve? Well... will they?
Notes
Cliff Gorman, fresh off his role as "Emory" in "The Boys in the Band", auditioned for the role of Senja, bringing the same interpretation to that character that he did to Emory, but Corman rejected him as "way too butch", and instead selected Jay Sayer. Sayer's rather eccentric performance may be partially explained by the fact that the character is supposed to be about fifteen years old.
Susan Cabot recalled an incident that happened during the scene where the Viking women first set out in the boat to look for their men. She said that there were 11 women in the "Viking ship", which was being towed out to sea by a boat that was out of camera range. When the scene was over and the towing boat was supposed to stop, they discovered that the man piloting the tow boat had fallen asleep, and no matter how loudly they yelled at him to wake up, the sounds of the ocean drowned them out. The bottom of the "Viking ship" began to fill up with water, and out of the 11 women on the sip, only Cabot and Abby Dalton could swim. They finally caught the attention of two passing surfers, who took a couple of the girls and headed to shore, but by the time the rest of the girls and the boat reached land, which was the base of a cliff jutting out into the ocean, the tide was beginning to rise and the sand at the base of the cliff was quickly being covered over by water. The girls had to climb up the face of this cliff, with the water slowly rising after them, until they got to the top of it. There they ran into some film-crew members who had been searching for them, and they took the girls back to the set on buses.
The Episode
Host Segments
Joel loves waffles
Prologue:
Joel
really likes waffles, and he tries to convince the Bots of all his wonderful recipes.
Segment One (Invention Exchange):
The
Mads
Meat Re-Animator brings a dead chicken back to life. Joel makes an iron that turns waffles into pancakes.
Segment Two:
Joel re-programs the Bots into his waffle obsession. Then says "Oh Dear God! What HAVE I DONE!"
Waffles!
Segment Three:
Just one word: "Waffles."
Segment Four:
Willy the Waffle presents the ideas of a waffle-free world after
Servo
eats one too many. Willy the Waffle sounds a lot like Coily the Spring, who doesn't show up until the tenth season ( Squirm ). Has the same message too.
Segment Five:
Joel and the Bots sing the "Waffle Song"! In
Deep 13 ,
Dr. F
is tired of all the waffle talk.
Even more waffles!
Stinger:
"But you don't understand! I'M A PRINCE!"
Other Notes
Miscellanea
Segment Three is the shortest
host segment
ever in the show's history.
Willy the Waffle is a tribute to Coily from the
Case of Spring Fever
short. The
Brains
had wanted to use
Spring Fever
for years, but didn't get the rights to until the show's final season. Willy pops up again in
Bride of the Monster .
Obscure References
"Is that so wrong?!"
Joel is echoing Harvey Firestein's plangent cry from the play
Torch Song Trilogy , which was adapted into a film in 1988. The line would also be used by Jon Lovitz's parody of Fierstein in several sketches on
Saturday Night Live .
"Our Bodies, Ourselves..."
Our Bodies, Ourselves
is a book about women's health written from a feminist perspective.
"The Bell Jar..."
The Bell Jar
is a
roman a clef
about mental illness written by
Sylvia Plath .
"She consulted Robert McNamara!"
Robert McNamara
was the U.S. Secretary of Defense throughout much of the Vietnam War.
"Then she raced down to the Jean-Luc Godard Festival at the campus theatre!"
Jean-Luc Godard
is a French filmmaker who first made a name for himself during the " New Wave ".
"The Group!"
The Group
was a 1966 film about female college graduates.
"And they started by taking over the administration building!"
A reference to the
Columbia University protests of 1968 , in which student radicals occupied various campus offices.
"Here's a young Judy Chicago!"
Judy Chicago
is a feminist conceptual artist.
"Is that a real poncho or a Sears poncho?"
A line from the
Frank Zappa
song "Camarillo Brillo".
"Here, Carol Bly explains her principles!"
Carol Bly
is a Minnesota writer known for her creative-writing workshops.
"...meeting with Helen Gurley Brown..."
Helen Gurley Brown
was the longtime editor of
Cosmopolitan
magazine.
"Estes Kefauver!"
Estes Kefauver
was a U.S. senator from Tennessee, best known for overseeing a series of hearings on organized crime.
"IT IS BALLOON!!"
A reference to an episode of
F-Troop .
"You! What's the Fifth General Order?!"
The 5th General Order of the USMC is "Never quit my post until properly relieved."
"It says Piggy on the wall."
A reference to the
Charles Manson
Family, who wrote the word piggy in blood on one of the walls after they murdered some of their victims.
There's bars and punch in the fellowship hall...
Refers to a light meal served after a funeral. A common occurrence in the upper midwest.
"The wet head is dead."
A hairspray television commercial slogan advocating the 'dry' look over a greased-back men's hairstyle.
00:15
MST3K 317 Promo
preceded by:
Season 2
MST3K Season 3
followed by:
Season 4
1991
-
1992
301 Cave Dwellers 1991-06-01
309 The Amazing Colossal Man 1991-07-27
317 The Saga of the Viking Women... 1991-10-26
302 Gamera 1991-06-08
310 Fugitive Alien 1991-08-17
318 Star Force: Fugitive Alien II 1991-11-16
303 Pod People 1991-06-08
311 It Conquered the World 1991-08-24
319 War of the Colossal Beast 1991-11-30
304 Gamera vs Barugon 1991-06-22
312 Gamera vs Guiron 1991-09-07
320 The Unearthly 1991-12-14
305 Stranded in Space 1991-06-29
313 Earth vs the Spider 1991-09-21
321 Santa Claus Conquers the Martians 1991-12-21
306 Time of the Apes 1991-07-06
314 Mighty Jack 1991-09-28
322 Master Ninja I 1992-01-11
307 Daddy-O (episode) 1991-07-13
315 Teenage Cave Man 1991-11-09
323 The Castle of Fu Manchu 1992-01-18
308 Gamera vs Gaos 1991-07-20
316 Gamera vs Zigra 1991-10-19
324 Master Ninja II 1992-01-25
Retrieved from " http://mst3k.wikia.com/wiki/The_Saga_of_the_Viking_Women_and_Their_Voyage_to_the_Waters_of_the_Great_Sea_Serpent?oldid=28460 "
Categories :
MST3K Episodes
Episodes with shorts
Season 3
Sword and Sandal
Unreleased Episodes
Mystery Science Theater Hour Episodes
Unrated movies
1950s Movies
Around Wikia's network
Random Wiki
TV
About
Help
Community Central
Careers
Advertise
API
Contact Wikia
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Global Sitemap
Content is available under
CC-BY-SA .
Lifestyle
Entertainment
Video Games