The Team | Hamish and Andy Fan Blog
Hamish and Andy Fan Blog
Just another WordPress.com weblog
The Team
Hamish and Andy are the best comedy team in all of Australia. The team consisting of Hamish Blake and Andy lee have won aria’s for the best afternoon radio program and the best on-air radio hosts beating Kyle and Jackie’O.
Let us meet them then:
Hamish Blake
Hamish came into this world on the 11th of December 1981 in Melbourne, Victoria. Hamish has appeared by himself on Spicks and Specks, Thank God Your Here, The International Comedy Festival, The Panal, The Footy Show, Australia’s Brainiest Comedian and the 2008 Great Debate.
Hamish Blake grew up in the Victorian suburb of Glen Waverley. He is a middle child; his older brother, Lachlan, is a solicitor and his sister, Sophie, has completed an arts degree. His parents, Noel and Kerry, separated when Blake was 17, with his father eventually remarrying. As a child, Blake says he was a fan of British comedy such as
Monty Python ,
Fawlty Towers
and
Blackadder ; as a teenager he “worshipped” comedians
Tony Martin
and
Mick Molloy . He attended school at
St Leonard’s College , graduating in 1999 in the top 1.1 per cent of the state.
After a gap year, Blake enrolled at the
University of Melbourne
in a Science/Commerce double degree. “I’m interested in artificial intelligence and computer science. That stuff still fascinates me.” He says. However, a few weeks into the semester he met Andy Lee: “That was the turning point. The wheels quickly fell off my academic career.” Blake eventually dropped out of university to pursue a career in comedy alongside Lee. Blake’s first experience with comedy was when he entered a competition at university. He was broke at the time, and hoped to win the $500 first prize. His stand-up performance earned him third place and qualified him for a statewide universities’ final, which he did win.
Blake’s girlfriend,
Anna Jennings-Edquist , is an actress who formerly starred in the Australian soap opera
Neighbours . As of November 2007 they had been dating almost 3 years. Hamish is an
atheist .
He has a monthly column in the Australian women’s magazine
Cosmopolitan . He was also the winner of the TV Fugly Award for Spunkiest Male TV Personality in 2008. Hamish Blake was voted the comedian of the year in 2007 by the Eather corporation. His compatriat Andy Lee was placed 14th for 2007.
Andy Lee
Andrew Thomas “Andy” Lee (born 24 May 1981) is an
Australian
comedian. He usually works with
Hamish Blake
as part of the
comedy duo
Hamish & Andy .
Lee attended Balwyn Primary School and Camberwell Grammar School. Lee has a sister Alex Lee who also writes pantomimes and stars in the comedy show Porky Pies. Lee has an involvement in the youth camps called Lord Somers Camp. Camberwell Grammar School , where he participated in
scouting ,
hockey , and music. He then went on to study Commerce at the
University of Melbourne , where he met comedic partner Blake.
Lee and Blake teamed with
Ryan Shelton
and several others to create a show called Radio Karate on community-access television station
Channel 31 . They appeared on
SYN Radio
and subsequently had a few spot projects on
FOX FM .
Blake & Lee host the national ( Today Network ) drive-time program. The radio show is very successful, scoring top positions in the radio ratings in the crucial
Sydney
and
Melbourne
markets, as well as
Perth . [2]
Their audience share is around 20%, which is the highest ever recorded for a national FM show in Australia. Lee is a regular on ABC music trivia program
Spicks and Specks .
He won the first series of Joker Poker, a celebrity poker show in which contestants win money for charity. He appeared on the
Network Ten
program Australia’s Brainiest Comedian, becoming the first person ever to not answer any questions correctly in a round.
Lee was also a founding member of
Melbourne
band Zoophyte, along with his brother Cameron. He had to retire from the band due to other commitments, but occasionally appears as a guest at some gigs. Lee released an educational times table CD in 2003, The Sing Along Times Table CD Book. The CD was re-discovered in 2005/2006 after an “alert listener” informed Blake, and teased Lee about it on their radio show.
He is also friends with
Ed Kavalee , formerly one of the co-hosts of
Triple M ‘s
Get This
program. Because they were on rival radio networks, whenever Kavalee mentioned Lee on air he called him “Mr. X”. In 2006 Lee was named Cleo Bachelor of the year. [3]
He is currently dating supermodel
Megan Gale .
Like this: Like
Loading...
Leave a Reply
Cancel reply
Enter your comment here...
Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:
Email
(required)
(Address never made public)
Name
(required)
Website
You are commenting using your WordPress.com account.
(  Log Out  /  Change  )
You are commenting using your Twitter account.
(  Log Out  /  Change  )
You are commenting using your Facebook account.
(  Log Out  /  Change  )
You are commenting using your Google+ account.
(  Log Out  /  Change  )
Cancel
Connecting to %s
Notify me of new comments via email.
Search:
Pages News
Pictures
Podcasts
Polls
Quotes
Radio Links
The Team
Trivia
Videos
Archives
November 2008
Categories
Uncategorized
(1)
Blogroll
WordPress.com
WordPress.org
Meta
Register
Log in
XFN
WordPress
The Kubrick Theme .
Blog at WordPress.com .
Entries (RSS)
and
Comments (RSS) .
Follow
Follow “Hamish and Andy Fan Blog”
Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.
Build a website with WordPress.com
%d
bloggers like this: