Top 10 Serious Drug Side Effects
About
Meet our team
Contact
Metrolic
Editorials
Home
World News
U.S. News
Business
Technology
Entertainment
Lifestyle
Science
Environment
Health
Sports
Arts
Top 10 Serious Drug Side Effects
Written by
admin
Posted in:
Health
one comment
Do you like this story?
Most of the people have to take at some point in their life prescription drugs, which are drugs that can not be bought from the pharmacy without a written recipe from the doctor.
Many of these drugs are not given without recipe because they have
side effects
which results from taking the drug. Most of the drugs have a list of common side effects: nausea and vomiting, allergic reactions, drowsiness, insomnia, heart problems (such as heart palpitations) and dependence. Most of the times the patients has an option as to lessen the unwanted side effects by adapting the life style while being on that particular medication. But there are some drugs which cause side effects that are very different from the ones that appear on regular occasions. In some cases the side effects were discovered during the medical trials and were considered acceptable because the benefits of the drug were worth the risks, but in other cases the effects that proved to be catastrophic were widely known only after the drug was on the market.
#10
Amnesia
Amnesia
is a condition that affects patients so that they do not remember of who they are or where they came from. It is sometimes caused by head injury and can be reversed using the same method (when the patients bumps the head again on a hard object and the memory miraculously comes back), it can be caused by a traumatic happening or by the intake of some drugs. This happens to the pramipexole medication patients. The drugs were developed in the 1990s and were aimed at controlling the symptoms of Parkinson’s disease and is also prescribed for people with Restless Leg Syndrome (RLS).  One of the unusual side effects of this drug is amnesia and patients reported short-term memory loss, like not remembering what they did the day before. If they stopped taking the drugs the problem solved by itself. The side effect is caused by taking statins, drugs recommended for lowering cholesterol. Scientists say that it is because the drugs completely block the creation of cholesterol, which is necessary for the functioning of the brain.
#9
Ache and pain
Many of the drugs prescribed by doctors are meant to treat pain of some nature , but some of them, which are intended at curing some other problem are causing different types of pains and aces as a side effect. So basically the patient has to take a drug to cure his or her disease and then take another drug to gat rid of the pain caused by the first one and that’s how people can end up on multiple drugs for multiple conditions. People who take the antihistamine group of drugs named fexofenadine and are trying to cure their hay fever and other
allergic symptoms
like sneezing, coughing and itching eyes usually end up with muscle pain and backaches. People that take atorvastatin based drugs experience pain and stiffness as well as weakness in their muscles, and in some cases even loss of muscle control and coordination. If they quit taking the drugs the side effects disappeared too. The producers of the drugs were even sued in some occasions because the patients pretended that the drug caused permanent muscle and nerve damage and the effects of the drug never went away once the treatment was over.
#8
Vision and other senses problems
Most of the pills, when swallowed leave a bad taste in the mouth, especially when they are taken without water. But some of tem have the strange effect of completely distorting your sense of taste not only by leaving a bad taste, but completely altering the way that the patient used to feel the taste of what he or she eats. Drugs which have as an active compound enalapril are meant to treat high blood pressure and congestive heart failure, but they have been proved to alter all of
the five senses
: the sense of small (this condition is called anosmia), the taste, it causes ringing in the ears (tinnitus) and a wide range of eye problems like blurred vision and dry eyes. Taken separately, these side effects might not seem as a very big deal, but when experiencing them all at once the patient surely do not take them very easy. Viagra, a drug that is used to treat erectile disorders, can also have strange effects on the vision: patients have reported experiencing not only blurred vision, but also blue vision and problems distinguishing between the colors blue and green. Some researchers at the University of Minnesota believe that the ones that use Viagra regularly can experience permanent vision loss due to blood flow to the optic nerve being cut off.
Next →
Did you like it? Share it! Tweet
Related Articles Top 10 Most Infectious Diseases
There are a lot of diseases that can affect people, but it is the simple ones, which have no actual cure, but the immune system of the body to fight against them.<-200x200 Small Square->
Take the common cold for example. Scientists […] Antidepressant Drug With Rapid Effects
Depression is one of the worst mental conditions there are and it seems that there are more and more people suffering from it. Being mild or serious, depression is always a terrible matter and there are many drugs which help people […] Freaky Sleeping Disorders
Sleeping disorders are very common nowadays and everyone has suffered from at least one in their entire life. Well, to get you more acquainted with these sleep disorders, here are 10 of the freakiest ones. <-200x200 Small […] 7 Common Health Problems for Veterans
A soldier can get injured in the battle, but very often he will suffer from other things besides the gun wounds. In most of the cases the soldiers who return back home suffer from certain mental health issues, to illnesses and pains which […] Scientific Discoveries Used to Create Legal Drugs
David Nichols is a synthetic chemist at Purdue University, and for a very long time he has created mind-altering substances which interact with the receptors located in the brain.<-300x250 Medium Rectangle->
His work was done for […] Possible Cure for Asthma Found
It has been discovered that the human lungs contain more than a dozen taste receptors which can be found on the mouth. This discovery might help the researchers find a solution to treat asthma, and other similar diseases.<-200x200 […] Medical marijuana: no more pain
People that experience chronic pain and are not getting enough relief from regular medications may be able to ease their pain by smoking small amounts of marijuana, a study is showing.<-200x200 Small Square->
Marijuana can also […] How worried should we be about balance disorders?
We all experience balance disorders at some point or another. These can occur disparately or quite frequently but, either way, most of us surely stop and wonder what brought it about or if whether there's any underlying condition we […]
« previous post
next post »
One Response to
Top 10 Serious Drug Side Effects
anna poulson
says:
November 14, 2010 at 6:19 am
In all honesty, I have to ask whether or not he article above was proof read or checked. Raluca Coman? the writer really needs to verify some of the information, or clarify it further
Loading...
Today’s Most Popular
Abu Dhabi, The Richest City In The World Susan Boyle's Autobiography: The Woman I Was Born To Be Top Alien Encounter Stories Romanians Are On The Verge Of Finding The Cure For Cancer New Planet Earth Found?
Find us on Facebook
Recent Comments
Bogdan : My friend,
I would avoid considering some theories as bei
cours de cuisine Strasbourg : Its like you learn my mind! You appear to grasp a lot about
NIDHIN A S : ENJOY THE LAST TIMES OF YOURS BY A HUMAN BEING WHO LOVES THE
Barnes : Satan (Allah) will call Jesus loud in the end.
Muthusi : Why do those aliens show themselves only on whitelands,why h
9637567952 : a
Nancy : I am reading the Dulce book, and it made me think of some of
Dr. Sanathdeva Murutenge : Now I am really getting tired of reading junk science of Ste
Faithful : I see the math is ounce and ton but china is using Metro ton
garba ali : helo
very
body
i love
this
country
is
very
nice
an
Keep In Touch
subscribe to
RSS
become a fan on
Facebook
Smartphone Powered
Did you know that
Metrolic
can be viewed from popular touch-based smartphones like iPhone TM , iPod touch TM , Android TM , Palm TM
Pre/Pixi, and BlackBerry Storm TM ?
© 2010 Metrolic. All rights reserved |
Meet our team
|
Contact us
|
Archive
|
About