eddiegordon.info BBC Radio 1 Essential Mix
Skip to navigation.
Journalism & BBC Radio1
>  The BBC Radio 1 Essential Mix
BBC Radio 1 Essential Mix
An EG idea/concept delivered to the world via BBC Radio 1.
October 1993 - Aug 2011. Now the longest running mix show on Radio in its 18th year. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Essential_Mix http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Goa_Mix
The world’s best djs on the world’s most powerful turntables, The
Essential Mix quickly established a strong reputation within the dance
music community and has gained prestige both in the UK and
internationally. Although I originally had my work cut out attracting
big names to the programme due to their busy DJ schedules but armed
with determination and a broad knowledge of the big name DJs dance
music styles coming from years of sending records to hundreds of the
best DJs via my very successful dance promotion company, the list of
performers now essentially reads as a “who’s who of dance music. There
are websites devoted to the show with every single Essential Mix
available for download, or on Ebay or as forums discussing the merits
of the featured DJ's mixes. I always told the DJ's it was their 2 hour
window to the listening world, to play whatever they wanted and to
create something memorable. The most memorable in all the Polls held is
the Oakenfold Goa mix from '97 which won a Sony Silver Award for being
so innovative and that is exactly what Paul and I set out to do -
create something very special. See the Sony Award lower down the page.
Sometimes in life you deliver beyond all expectations - this is true
with this project. A world wide established radio brand. Now 15 years
on its the world's longest running mix
show on Radio and a must have in a DJ's biography. I even created the
planets logo. Won a host of awards including the aforementioned Sony
Silver Award in 1997 for Oakenfold's Goa Mix. Thank you Brian Chin -
you don't know what you started with those weekly Tony Humphrie's and Frankie
Knuckles Mix Tapes from New York - 4 hours of pure House
music for an addict. Ditto Timmy Regisford with his WBLS Saturday night
show - incredible music from the best of NYC times and I sit writing
this just one street away from 99 Prince St, New York, NY 10012 where
it all started with a club called The Loft which was DJ David Mancuso's
home. The beginning seed of all that we know in dance music history,
the DJ's, the club's, the labels, the sound systems and most
importantly the MUSIC stem from here - cut and paste this address for
further info
http://www.discomusic.com/people-more/49_0_11_0_C/
essentialmix/articlepics/lead.jpg
An article in Muzik Mag,
Eddie Gordon, Producer of Radio One's dance show
"The shows success can perhaps be partly attributed to Radio 1’s unique
ability to offer DJs the chance to play a relatively long set on radio
uninterrupted by advertisements, something which cannot be matched by
the BBC’s commercial rivals (the BBC is funded through TV Licensing).
The absence of any kind of interruption in music has led to the show
being touted as a “two hour musical journey” rather than as simply an
assortment of records. The show has been used as a platform for artists
to showcase their talents, and for some is seen as a major boost to
their careers."
"If someone is prepared to spend money on learning more about the industry and to network with more people in the same position, then it shows they must be enthusiastic and dedicated enough to really want to do well in this industry. That is exactly the kind of energy we need!"
As producer of Radio 1's dance shows ("Essential Mix", Rampling's and one of Jules'), Gordon helps program what the club nation listens to through his company, West End Productions. Owns two labels (Neo, Black & Blue). Also involved in promoting the "Essential Mix" parties which go out live on air. Former head of Manifesto, and renowned creative brain-tank,
he has successfully A&R 'ed for the cream of the major labels. Gordon's also credited with getting Rampling his show, and is currently campaigning to bring in one other big name techno DJ.
Every Essential Mix broadcast
http://soundcloud.com/das-boy/sets/essential-mix/
365MAG
Quoted from Wikipedia:
The Essential Mix
is a weekly
radio
show broadcast on
BBC Radio 1
and features all styles of
dance music . Originally the brainchild of
Eddie Gordon
the Producer of the Show from the very first broadcast in 1993 to 2001. After receiving weekly mix shows from DJ's
Tony Humphries
and
Frankie Knuckles
on 2 hour cassettes from New York's
Hot 96
and
KISS 100
respectively in the early 90's Eddie felt that a
BBC Radio 1
weekly show with DJ's of different styles of music would offer more
variety and the chance for the ever burgeoning UK dance music scene to
flourish. He further encouraged the DJ's he scheduled to flex their
musical knowledge muscles by pushing the fact that the DJ's were not
strictly playing to a dance floor but to people listening in their
homes all over the world. Hence the need for a straight out 4 on the
floor mix for 2 hours was not essential. DJ
Paul Oakenfold
particularly benefited from this direction with the now famous
Goa Mix
which was not only voted the best Essential Mix ever but also won a
Silver Award in the Specialist Music Programme category at the 1997
Sony Radio Awards . The previous year, 1996, the
Essential Mix Show
picked up the award of
Radio Show Of The Year
from
Muzik Magazine . Later on it was
David Holmes
who created another 2 legendary hours in the history of the Essential Mix: His set on June 15th
1997
– a surprising journey from
Nancy Wilson
to
Jimi Hendrix
– redefined the
DJ
as a collector of musical history.
The show has been hosted since its conception in 1993 by DJ
Pete Tong
who was also the first performer, broadcast on
30 October
1993 .
Every Sunday a two hour programme is broadcast, usually between the
hours of 2am and 4am UK-time (the programme was previously broadcast
between 1am and 3am, and before that, between 2am and 4am and
originally midnight and 2am). The standard format of the show is an
uninterrupted guest mix of two hours provided by an invited DJ, group
or
producer , introduced by Tong. The mix is usually studio recorded in advance. Another
Eddie Gordon
inituitive was to take the show on the road with live broadcasts from
clubs or festivals, particularly during the Summer months (Northern
Hemisphere) and at the New Year's Eve end of the calendar months. The
live broadcasts started from within the
UK
and soon broadened out as
live
from
Ibiza ,
North America ,
Australia ,
South Africa ,
Germany ,
Hawaii
and other destinations in
Europe
including
Rome
in
Italy . The
BBC Radio 1 - One World
Millennium
celebration starting with DJ
Carl Cox
from
Bondi Beach
in
Sydney
Australia (more
Eddie Gordon
origination) before heading to
Cape Town
South Africa with DJ
Danny Rampling
prior to broadcasting DJ
Dave Pearce
from
Glasgow ,
Scotland , DJ
Pete Tong
from
Liverpool ,
UK
then DJ
Junior Vasquez
from
New York ,
USA
before closing with DJ
Carl Cox
who had flown backwards across the dateline to complete a DJ World first with two
Millennium
gigs by broadcasting from
Honolulu ,
Hawaii .
The forerunner to this mammoth New Year's Eve Essential Mix was the three cities broadcast on the New Year's Eve of
1997
into
1998
with simultaneous broadcasts from three clubs directly to each dance floor with DJ
Pete Tong
at the
Ministry Of Sound ,
London ,
UK , DJ
Todd Terry
at the
Ninex
venue in
Manchester ,
UK
and finishing with DJ
Eddie Baez
at the
Tunnel
venue in
Manhattan , New York, USA.
The broadcasts from
Ibiza
have taken place every summer since the first Essential Mix live broadcast from
Amnesia .
The first ever Essential Mix from Ibiza came in the summer of 1995
Ibiza as a pre-recorded broadcast of Nicky Holloway playing live at Ku
on
2 July
1995.
Read the full Wikipedia article here.
navigation
home
Introduction
Gravesend to The Grammys
Ed the DJ
Ed the DJ would like to Thank
Ed's Awards
Ed DJ Manager
Ed In Ibiza
Ed's Panels Speeches
Music
EG And Westend Remixes
Ed's hits
Charts and No.1s
Ed's Press
Icon, Legend, Innovator
Record labels
MCA Records
Motown Records
Atlantic Records
Polydor and PWL-Sanctuary
Manifesto
Neo Records
Journalism & BBC Radio1
Ed the Journalist
The BBC Radio 1 Essential Mix
BBC Radio 1 Millennium
A Piece Of Paradise. The Paradise Garage documentary - BBC 6 Music
Online Innovations
DJ in the mix
Media2Radio
Music2Mix - M2M
Digital downloads
Ibizamix.com
Personal
A piece for the movie One More Time (Aug 2011)
Better than selling bullets - MUSIC
Eds Favourites
Search
2007 - Eddie Gordon
This site is dedicated to my daughter Olivia Alexandra Gordon to know that her Daddy made a difference in his time here on Earth that he loves her very much and misses her every day with sorrow in his heart at their forced separation. I love you Oli Golly. Daddy :-) xxxxxxxx
"Eddie Gordon - the career of a new Millennium, innovative, forward thinking mind that has shaped the way music is presented to millions of people the world over with his visionary attitude to life's changes and the reason why music is so influential in all of our lives from the cradle to the grave."
Gabor Szanto - Budapest