Prabhas as BILLA
Prabhas as BILLA
Friday, March 20, 2009
Billa (2007 film) Tamil
Billa (2007 film)
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to:
navigation ,
search
This article
needs additional
citations
for
verification .
Please help
improve this article
by adding
reliable references
(ideally, using
inline citations ). Unsourced material may be
challenged
and
removed .
(March 2009)
Billa
Theatrical release poster
Directed by
Vishnuvardhan
Produced by
L. Suresh Balaji
Written by
Story: Javed Akhtar , Salim Khan Screenplay Vishnuvardhan
Starring
Ajith Kumar Nayanthara Prabhu Ganesan Namitha Rahman Santhanam
Music by
Yuvan Shankar Raja
Cinematography
Nirav Shah
Distributed by
Balaji Movies ( India ) Ayngaran
(Worldwide)
Release
date(s)
December 14, 2007
Country
India
Language
Tamil
Billa
is a blockbuster
Tamil language
feature film, directed by
Vishnuvardhan . Based on the 1980
Tamil film
of the same name
starring
Rajnikanth .
Ajith Kumar
and
Nayantara
played the lead roles while
Prabhu Ganesan ,
Rahman ,
Namitha ,
Adithya
and
Santhanam
were also part of the cast. The film was released and distributed worldwide by
Ayngaran International
on December 14, 2007.
In 2008, the film was selected to be screened at the
Cannes International Film Festival .
Ajith Kumar
and
Vishnuvardhan
had attended the screening at
Cannes, France .
Contents
[ hide ]
1
Plot 2
Cast 3
Production
3.1
The key elements 3.2
Casting, music and location 3.3
Development
4
Soundtrack
4.1
Publicity
5
Billa 2 6
Billa 2 References 7
External links
[ edit ]
Plot
This article
may require
cleanup
to meet Wikipedia's
quality standards .
Please
improve this article
if you can.
(December 2008)
Ajith Kumar as
David Billa .
The story begins with a sadistic underworld don David Billa ( Ajith Kumar ). Most-wanted gangster, hiding and operating out of Canada, on the top of Interpol’s criminal list. DSP Jayprakash ( Prabhu ) has spent a huge chunk of the last few years looking for the elusive Billa. He has left a life behind in India, only to base himself in Canada and strategise the capture of the man who has 50 high-profile crime cases slapped against him.
The Malaysian team is headed by the DSP who wants to break the back of the operations of the Underworld Dons. He believes that capturing the dangerous and elusive underworld don, David Billa, will be the most EASIEST thing in the world. Billa's gang consist nobody, it's a one man gang!! During a chase with the police Billa is seriously wounded after an accident and dies in front of the DSP. The DSP then secretly holds a burying of Billa. Enters an Interpol Officer Gokulnath ( Rahman ) who is assigned to work with DSP Jayaprakash to capture elusive Billa as no-one knows of Billa's death. DSP Jayaprakash keeps the death of Billa as a secret even from his fellow officers, and tracks down a look-alike called Saravana Velu, a lowly pick-pocket(also played by Ajith Kumar). He asks Velu to infiltrate Billa's gang by pretending to be Billa. In return he will make sure that the child Velu adopted, Karan gets a proper education.
The DSP trains Velu and sends him back to Billa's gang as a person who has lost his memory ( Amnesia ). Slowly Velu starts to learn about Billa's Gang and even speaks to Jagdish on the phone. Velu provides a pen drive with the secret information of the crime network to the DSP, but he is about to be killed by Sasha. At this juncture, DSP arrive and tell her that he is Velu and not Billa. Later Velu secretly provides information to the DSP about a meeting of Billa's Network and C.j overhears his conversation. He accidentally kills C.J. A shootout occurs at the party and the DSP is secretly killed by Jagdish, leaving his gun behind. Velu finds the DSP's body and the gun, but is taken into the custody of the police team, now headed by Interpol Officer Gokulnath. He argues during interrogation that he is Velu and not Billa to Gokulnath. Velu mentions a piece of evidence - the pen drive which may prove his innocence but the pen drive is no where to be found. Unable to prove is innocence, he escapes from a police van mnaking the police to run after him too. He phones to Gokulnath and ask him to meet at the Aero bridge. Here it is revealed that Gokulnath is none other than the Underworld Crime Don Jagdish and he is the one who killed Jayprakash. Officer Anil Menon apparently had the Pen drive all along and strikes a deal to get hold of Jagdish. Meanwhile Sasha is been kidnapped by Jagdish and Jagdish wants the pen drive in return for it. Velu meets Ranjith and gives him a second pen drive with the same data, but corrupted, but when Ranjith tries to kill Velu, a scuffle ensues making Ranjith fall from the top. In a final confrontation, Jagdish fights with Velu, by the time police arrives. Jagdish posing as Gokulnath asks the police to arrest Velu as Billa but gets shot by the squad of police and dies as the police have wired the entire conversation between Jagdish and Velu, thus proving his innocence. Velu finally hands over the original pen drive to Officer Menon.
[ edit ]
Cast
Ajith Kumar
as
David Billa
and
Saravana Velu . Coming off some success with
Kireedam
and from 2006,
Varalaru , Ajith was looking for a role which would continue his re-emergence in the
Tamil cinema
industry. After
Farhan Akhtar 's remake of
Don
from its original,
Vishnuvardhan
took up the idea, to do the same with the 1980
Billa
and immediately made Ajith Kumar his primary choice for the project. Ajith agreed and was approved by
Rajinikanth , who played the lead role in its previous version. Ajith received extremely positive reviews for his portrayals of the two roles, with the
Rediff
review claiming he was "electrifying as Billa" and "his performance is much better than the rest of the film". Other reviews back this up, by claiming he was "amazingly natural" and that "his performance marks a new high in his acting career".
Nayanthara
as
Sasha . She is the sister of one of the men that billa killed ,and seeks revenge. Nayanthara changed her usual homely look and wore much more glamorous outfits in
Billa . Nayanthara was praised as "gorgeous" and "the show stopper", whilst the film brought her back into the reckoning as a leading actress.
Namitha
as
C. J.
Sge is a part of Billa's crew that is in love with Billa. Namitha, prior to
Billa , had been involved in roles which made her seem vulgar compared to other actresses. However in
Billa , she was reported to be beaten in the glamour quotient by
Nayanthara
and a reviewer claimed that she was "surprisingly restrained."
Prabhu Ganesan . as
DSP Jayaprakash . Prabhu's role was much anticipated in this film. His successful cameo roles in
Chandramukhi ,
Thamirabharani , and
Something Something Unakkum Enakkum
have made the producers to have Prabhu play the important role of the Malaysian cop.
Rahman
as
Gokulnath (Jagdish) . Rahman, a
Malayalam
actor, made his comeback to
Tamil cinema
with the film as the main villain and received mostly positive reviews for his role in the movie.
[ edit ]
Production
[ edit ]
The key elements
Ajith as
Saravana Velu
after his disguise as
Billa
was revealed.
The entire production of the movie took about six months to be completed and released. Prior to
Billa ,
Vishnuvardhan
had directed three films,
Kurumbu ,
Arinthum Ariyamalum
and
Pattiyal , two of which were successful.
Billa , was started after a debacle surrounding his other venture,
Sarvam , which was eventually postponed to make way for
Billa .
The film was originally announced, provisionally after the release of the
Bollywood
film,
Don
- which was a remake of the
yesteryear film with the same name from 1978 . Also from the 1978 version of Don, a remake was made in 1980 into
Tamil , called
Billa . 2007's
Billa
drew inspirations from these three versions. Vishnuvardhan claims to have had
Ajith Kumar
on his mind to penact the lead role, prior to him signing the project. Suresh Balaji, who had acted in the yesteryear version of
Billa , acquired the rights to produce the film. The film became the second
Tamil film
to be remade from its yesteryear version after
Naan Avanillai .
In an interview, Vishnuvardhan, mentioned that he had "twice missed out on the chance to direct him [Ajith Kumar]. The third time when I got a chance to direct him, I made sure that I would not miss it. I was all ready to write a good script for him but he said, he wanted me to re-make
Billa " , confirming it was Ajith Kumar's idea. While
Yuvan Shankar Raja
was signed on as the music director, as per his previous films, while
Pa. Vijay
assisted him with the lyrics and Vishnuvardhan's wife, Anu, debuted as a costume designer.
[ edit ]
Casting, music and location
Apart from the casting of
Ajith Kumar
in the dual lead role, previously played by
Rajnikanth , the rest of the cast took nearly four months to finalize. The role essayed by Sripriya in the original, was given to
Nayanthara , controversially after
Bollywood
actress,
Isha Sherwani
was paid the advance. Vishnuvardhan reported that he was pleased with Nayanthara's role in,
E
and subsequently opted for her. The other heroine role in the film, was initially written for
Shriya Saran , but due to her contract with,
Sivaji: The Boss , she refused to do the film. Despite other actreses such as
Trisha Krishnan ,
Reema Sen
and
Bhanu
being considered, the role was given to
Pooja Umashankar . Soon later, she also refused the role citing that she was reluctant to appear in a
bikini , as the role required. Upon this,
Namitha , another actress was given the role.
The remaining members of the cast were selected subsequently after the launch, which was held on the 13 April, 2007. Despite early reports of
Prakash Raj
playing the role enacted by Suresh Balaji of an inspector in the original, the role eventually went to
Prabhu Ganesan . Comedien
Santhanam
also became a part of the project as did another character artiste,
Adithya
also signed up to be one of the members of the police troupe, as did
Malayalam
actor,
Rahman , who with
Billa , made his comeback into
Tamil cinema . The
item number , danced by
Helen
in the original was originally given to
Mumaith Khan , but was later changed to newcomer,
Rose Dawn , for unknown reasons.
The film was mostly shot in
Kuala Lumpur ,
Malaysia
overlooking the
Petronas Towers . A song sequence was shot in
Kerala , with the backdrop of waterfalls while some scenes were picturized in various cities across
South India . For the film's music and soundtrack, Vishnuvardhan renewed his previous association ( Kurumbu ,
Arinthum Ariyamalum
and
Pattiyal ) with
Yuvan Shankar Raja .
[ edit ]
Development
On April 13, 2007, the eve of
Tamil New Year's Day , the launch of
Billa
took place at the
AVM
studios in
Vadapalani ,
Chennai . Among the attendees were the stars of the old cast,
Rajnikanth , Sripriya, Suresh Balaji as well as noted directors
Mani Rathnam ,
Dharani ,
K. S. Ravikumar , and
Saran . The confirmed cast uptil the date of the launch also were invited, among them being
Ajith Kumar
along with his wife,
Shalini ;
Nayanthara ,
Namitha
and
Prabhu Ganesan .
[ edit ]
Soundtrack
Billa
Studio album
by
Yuvan Shankar Raja
Released
November 26, 2007
Genre
Feature film soundtrack
Label
Aditya Music
Producer
L.Suresh
Yuvan Shankar Raja
chronology
Billa (2007)
Vaazhthugal (2007)
Soundtrack
The film has songs composed by
Yuvan Shankar Raja , two of which have been re-mixed:
My Name is Billa
(Remix) Naan Meendum Sei Yedhavathu Sei Seval Kodi Vethilaya Pottendi
(Remix) Theme Music (Instrumental)
[ edit ]
Publicity
The publicity of the film was initially created when Vishnuvardhan picked Vicnesan to star in the movie and hence named the movie
Billa . Permission and allowance was asked from the producers of the yesteryear film
BILLA . Later there was confirmation that Rajinikanth had personally told Ajith to attempt the challenge of remaking
BILLA .. The trend in
Kollywood
in recent times is to remake yesteryear hits and this has been backed by Vishnuvardhan who confirmed that this will definitely be a modern day interpretation of the old
Billa .
The film released on December 14, 2007 and opened up to positive reviews, becoming one of the most critically acclaimed films of the year, along side
Sivaji: The Boss . The film became the second biggest blockbuster of the year which grossed nearley 55 crores world wide behind super star 's all time block buster sivaji the boss which broke all box office records for a tamil film .
[ edit ]
Billa 2
Ajith
fans talked with
Vishnuvardhan
during an
Sarvam
audio launch function. When asked about the reason for not doing Billa 2 he replied: That it has not been dropped and the script draft work is going on. He has also informed that by 2010 he will be working with
Ajithkumar
for the Billa 2 and it is going to be bigger than
Billa 2007 .
[ 1 ] [ 2 ]
[ 3 ]
[ 4 ]
Posted by
Billa as Prabhas
at
10:31 PM
No comments:
Billa music launch
Music
of Prabhas’s stylish flick Billa was launched at a packed auditorium in Shilpa Kala Vedika on the night of 18 March. Dasari, SS Rajamouli, VV Vinayak, Gopichand and Allu Arjun graced the function as guests. Dasari launched the music.
Speaking on the occasion Dasari said, “I directed memorable
films
of Krishnam Raju. Krishnam Raju’s Gopi Krishna movies is one of the prestigious banners of Telugu cinema. Prabhas is the able heir of rebel star Krishnam Raju. Krishnam Raju never compromises on the production values. When it cost making Telugu film around 10,000 rupees a day, Krishnam Raju spent around 2 lacs a day while making Tandra Paparayudu film. Such a film would have cost at least 50 crores today. I am sure that Prabhas is going to create sensation in the years to come.”
Prabhas will surpass Hrithik Roshan - SS Rajamouli
SS Rajamouli said, “I happened to see a
song
and promos of Billa. I always wondered why we didn’t have a macho hero like Hrithik Roshan in Telugu. I can confidently say that Prabhas will surpass Hrithik Roshan. Meher Ramesh made Billa on
Hollywood
making style.”
Prabhas is my favorite actor outside my family - Allu Arjun Actor Allu Arjun said, “Prabhas is my favorite hero among the ones from outside my family. Prabhas is also a clean person at heart. Prabhas is my favorite person. He is like 6-feet of pure gold. Prabhas’s uber stylish look is enough to make Billa a super hit film.”
Actress Namitha spoke in Telugu and she expressed her happiness.
Actor
Prabhas
said, “This my first film in the combination of Krishnam Raju. It was a difficult experience to work with him. All the unit members worked for this film with lots of passion and dedication. Everybody owned this product. I would like to thank all of them and my fans for their continuous support."
Mani Sharma composed music for Billa. Lahari music bought audio rights. The music will be on the racks from 20 March. Billa film is likely to hit the marquee on 3 April.
Billa
links:
Photo gallery
Wallpapers
Photo
Gallery
(photos by G Narasaiah)
Posted by
Billa as Prabhas
at
10:20 PM
No comments:
Older Posts
Home
Subscribe to:
Posts (Atom)
Followers
Blog Archive
▼
2009
(5)
▼
March
(5)
Billa (2007 film) Tamil
Billa music launch
Wall
Papers - Billa (poster des...
Working stills - Billa - Meher Ramesh & Prabhas
Prabhas as BILLA
About Me
Billa as Prabhas
View my complete profile