Clubbers decktionary: Balearic | The List
What's on
Film
Food & drink
Articles
Offers
I'm looking for
Search
Music
Film
Comedy
Theatre
Clubs
Visual art
Life & style
Books
News
Kids
Days out
Dance
LGBT
TV
Shopping
Celebrity gossip
Tech
Clubbers decktionary: Balearic
What exactly is the definition of 'Balearic' in music
Source:
The List
Date:
29 June 2011
(updated 25 Jul 2011)
Written by:
Hobbes
comments
Balearic, or Balearic beat adj: Spanish origin but formally cultivated by British DJs, Balearic came to be identified with a certain kind of mid-tempo (i.e.100-120 BPM) dance music.
Origins
Pioneered by key DJs on London’s nascent acid house scene, the term
Balearic beat
was coined after a trip by the group to Ibiza in the summer of 1987, and initially just meant a much more eclectic mix of music than any of them was used to hearing, as exemplified by a certain island taste-maker they met called Alfredo Fiorito. Witnessing the Argentine DJ, then resident at
Amnesia
(later Pacha), mixing up some of the more out-there indie records of the time alongside smooth soul, Italo disco, Chicago house, new beat, EBM, new wave, punk, reggae, plus the odd weird and wonderful pop tune, they decided they’d discovered The Next Big Thing. The meaning later became by turns more obscure and also more closely affiliated with mid-tempo club records exhibiting a funky beat more akin to the rhythm of hip hop than the straighter four-four beats of house and disco.
Key figures
Trevor Fung,
Paul Oakenfold ,
Danny Rampling , Johnny Walker, Nicky Holloway, plus oft-forgotten ladies Lisa Loud and Nancy Noise, all watched Alfredo in action in Ibiza, christened his style and took it back to Blighty, pioneering the initial trend. Oakenfold and Fung compiled
Balearic Beat Volume 1 – The Album (FFRR)
with Radio 1’s
Pete Tong
plus sleeve notes by
Junior Boy’s Own
legend Terry Farley. And Balearic has remained a staple for left-leaning DJs with an ‘anything goes’ attitude, or who prefer not to get stuck in a 125 BPM house groove, from Soul II Soul’s
Jazzie B
and Bristol’s
Wild Bunch
crew to the likes of The Chemical Brothers, Harvey and the Idjut Boys. You’re likely to hear some Balearic at Subculture, Sub Club, weekly Sat; Highlife, La Cheetah, Sat 2 Jul; On Air, Bacchus, weekly Sat (all Glasgow); Ultragroove, Cabaret Voltaire, Sat 2 & 16 Jul; Devil Disco Club, Bongo Club, Sat 9 Jul; Heavy Gossip, Hawke + Hunter, Sat 25 Jun; Wasabi Disco, Sneaky Pete’s, Sat 16 Jul (all Edinburgh).
Ultragroove
Deep soulful house with a dash of disco from Gareth Sommerville.
Devil Disco Club
No wave, vintage disco, electro funk, proto house and New York classics from the Trouble DJs and Giles Walker.
Heavy Gossip
Fresh house cuts, disco funk and reworked edits.
Subculture
Glasgow's well-established house institution continues to reign supreme, with residents Harri and Domenic and occasional big-name guests.
On Air
A new Saturday nighter showcasing five DJs, playing down tempo disco, picking up through the night with some deep, jacking and tech house. The full five hours will also be broadscast live on chicagohousefm.com Sat 9 Jul: With DJ Q (Glasgow Underground, Doubledown), Stevie Elements, Charlie Gardiner (SloMo), Lach (Fiasco…
Elsewhere on the web www.hobbesmusic.co.uk
Comments
Post a comment
Name
Comment
Preview
To post a comment, sign in with:
Facebook
Google
or
The List
Email
Password
Sign in
Remember
Not registered?
Create an account
Forgotten your password?
Similar articles
Clubs Balearic Clubbers Decktionary
Clubbers' Decktionary: Jackin'
(19 Mar 2013) New strain of house popular in north of England as played by DJs Tom Zanetti, Nick Hannam & Ryan Ja Clubbers' Decktionary: IDM aka Intelligent Dance Music
(26 Feb 2013) Trouble's DJ Hobbes gives us a guide to the myriad genres of clubbing Clubbers' Decktionary: Novelty Records
(13 Dec 2012) Trouble's DJ Hobbes gives us a seasonal one-off guide to novelty chart-botherers Clubbers' Decktionary: Goa Trance
(12 Nov 2012) Trouble's DJ Hobbes gives us a guide to the myriad genres of clubbing Clubbers' Decktionary: Trap
(16 Oct 2012) Trouble's DJ Hobbes gives us a guide to the myriad genres of clubbing Clubbers' Decktionary: Shangaan Electro
(18 Sep 2012) Trouble's DJ Hobbes gives us a guide to the myriad genres of clubbing Clubbers' Decktionary: Scouse House aka Donk, UK Bounce, NRG
(22 Aug 2012) A guide to the myriad genres of clubbing, from Trouble's DJ Hobbes Clubbers decktionary - Disco Edits or Re-edits
(9 Aug 2012) A guide to the myriad genres of clubbing, from Trouble's DJ Hobbes
Music Newsletter
Fortnightly updates on the latest tours, hottest tickets, best new music and videos. All for you.
back to top
Products & services
Add an event
Add a place
Email newsletters
Edinburgh Festival
Guides & publications
Magazine subscriptions
Jobs
The List
About us
Contact us
Advertise with us
Terms & conditions
Follow us
Twitter
Facebook
Google+
©2015 The List
Ltd.