The Poumtchak Pattern - Part I
PART I: THE
CULTURAL CONTEXT
Chapter 1: Introduction to the cultural context of electronic dance
music
The disco era of the 1970s
Discourse on disco
The origin of club culture
The approach of the
disco DJ, part 1: the focus on the dancers
The approach of the
disco DJ, part 2: the obscure tracks
The approach of the
disco DJ, part 3: the focus on good sound
The approach of the
disco DJ, part 4: the underground position
The end of the disco era
The 1980s continuation of dance music
culture
(Paradise) Garage
and (The Ware)house
American dance
music in Britain
The “Belleville Three” and the rise
of techno
Acid house, rave, and
ecstasy
The dance music culture of the 1990s
Myriads of genres
The post-rave club
scene
A presentation of two
dance acts
Summary
Chapter 2: Dance music production and the development of music
technology
Dance music production from the 1970s
to the 1990s
The production of
disco music
The remix and the
twelve-inch
The production of
Chicago house music
The acid house sound
Dance music
production in the 1990s
The development of music technology during
the 1980s and 1990s
Synthesizers
Drum machines
MIDI: musical
instrument digital interface
Sequencers
Digital samplers
Music technology and issues of
authenticity
Summary
PART I: THE CULTURAL CONTEXT
No
work is created in a cultural vacuum, and this study, like its music, is no
exception. A music production nestles in a very specific historical and
cultural context, and it is essential to acknowledge it in any relevant
interpretation. [1]
Pioneering popular music scholars revealed how traditional music analysis in
fact seldom tended to position the music within a specific cultural setting
– faith in the universal meaning of music, however variously defined, had
blinded musicologists to the music’s cultural affiliations.
Richard
Middleton
demonstrated how even early studies of popular music were
influenced by this same faith, lacking a “concern with
practice
– how all these texts
worked as
culture .” [2]
Stan Hawkins
adds, “The analysis of
music only becomes meaningful when positioned in relation to the social space
it is received in.” [3]
Similarly,
Jason
Toynbee
asserts that “musicians work within a radius of creativity, or
range of possibilities, determined by the prevailing discourses and practices
in their field.” [4]
The history of a genre (or the
construction of
the history or genre) and the music maker’s
relationship to it, as well as the prior or contemporary contributors he or she
identifies with, are likewise central to creative decision-making processes.
Contemporary cultural contexts both absorb and reflect prevailing opinions and
values that are themselves often situated within fields of tension.
The
following two chapters comprise an introduction to the cultural context of the
music that is dealt with in the analyses of this study. This context chiefly
concerns the producer of electronic dance music in the 1990s dance music scene.
Since many rock historians have offered rather shallow accounts of dance music
genres and their historical roots, I see it as necessary here to offer a
chronological narrative and present some of the central issues at stake within
this culture. This introduction is intended primarily to enrich the following
analytical discussions by providing a backdrop that links the music to its
cultural affiliations.
I
have brought together information from the relevant literature, my own clubbing
experience, consultations with Norwegian DJs/producers, and participation on
relevant web forums. In the first chapter I present a historical overview that
extends from 1970s disco music culture to 1990s electronic dance music culture
and identifies influential contributors, clubs, and events. Its main focus is
on the historical developments that shaped expectations and fields of tension
within the culture. In the second chapter I look at the same time period but
focus on developments in the production of dance music and changes in music
technology.
Chapter 1:
Introduction to the
cultural context of electronic dance music
The
rhythmic structures of dance music arise primarily from the genre’s focus on
moving dancers, but they reveal other influences as well. The poumtchak pattern
has strong associations with both disco music and various genres of electronic
dance music, and these associations affect the pattern’s presence in popular
music in general. Its status and musical role there has varied according to the
reputation of these genres.
In
the following introduction I will not present a complete history of related
contributors, places, or events but rather examine those developments that
shaped prevailing opinions and fields of tension within electronic dance music
culture in particular. This culture in turn affects the choices that must be
made in dance music production, for example involving the poumtchak pattern. My
historical overview extends from the 1970s to the 1990s and covers
predominantly the disco era, the Chicago house scene, the acid house/rave era,
and the post-rave club-oriented house scene in England. [5]
The disco era of the 1970s
Discourse
on disco
The
image of John Travolta in his disco suit
from the 1977 motion picture
Saturday Night Fever
has become an icon of the disco era and its popularity. Like
Blackboard Jungle
and
Rock Around
the Clock
two decades earlier, this movie was an important vehicle for
the distribution of a new dance music culture to America and the entire Western
world, and the impact of its construction of disco was gigantic. [6]
It became a model for local disco cultures around the world and comprised the
core of a common understanding of disco in mainstream popular music culture.
The
image of John Travolta therefore also evokes the enormous commercial success of
Saturday Night
Fever
itself, and in turn the later exploitation of disco music and culture
by those with economic, rather than artistic, designs upon it. [7]
Disco fell from grace after only a few years (especially in the United States),
overtaken by a constellation of disapproving notions about its commercialism,
decadence, rigid rhythms, and deleterious effect on “real” music. Walter Hughes
writes, “Few forms of popular culture receive the kind of opprobrium that has
been lavished on disco music since its emergence in the seventies . . . Even at
the height of its popularity, it was widely condemned, most vociferously by the
admirers and consumers of popular music themselves.” [8]
Recent
writers on disco and dance music have focused less upon
Saturday Night Fever
and its wider
promotion of disco and more upon the underground dance music culture related to
nightclubs, DJing, and dancing that arose primarily in New York City. [9]
This new emphasis introduces fresh aspects of authenticity, integrity, and the
resistance of subjugated groups (for example, African Americans, Hispanics, the
working class, homosexuals) into the discussion. Yet the elevation of these
overlooked cultural contributors has led also to new dichotomies between authentic
and inauthentic appreciation within the dance music culture. [10]
Middleton
observes that authenticity is used in discourses on popular music “to mark out
the genuine from the counterfeit, the honest from the false, the original from
the copy.” [11]
Keir
Keightley
describes it as “the compass that orients rock culture in its
navigation of the mainstream.” [12]
He
further notes that authenticity is not actually an audible feature in the
music, but instead “a value, a quality we ascribe to perceived relationships
between music, socio-industrial practices, and listeners or audiences.” [13]
As
Allan
Moore
has pointed out, the important question here is
who
decides upon this authenticity, with
regard to tracks, performers, or whole genres. [14]
The
issue is as divisive in dance music culture as it is in popular music culture
writ large, though the rules for what is considered authentic for the former
arise from somewhat unique principles of value.
An
important relationship with regard to those principles involves constructions
of the “mainstream” and the “underground.” These constructions were very
relevant to club culture in the 1990s but impacted disco culture as well. The
hits of the
Bee Gees
represented mainstream appreciation, while the obscure disco tracks of
Barrabas
or
Eddie Kendricks
belonged to a more “authentic” underground disco culture. Disco dance music
that has proven in time to be influential arose from both sources;
Tim Lawrence , in
his book on the American
dance music culture of the 1970s , asserts that “creativity and innovation
didn’t just emanate from the underground but also from the much broader
downtown party network.” [15]
Writers
on disco do agree that widespread ignorance of the original motivations and
practices
associated
with this New York dance culture eventually doomed it. The real (and positive)
trappings of disco culture gave way to mistaken but viral impressions of its
hedonism, decadence, and acceptance of drug use, as well as to poor imitations
of its music.
Brewster
and Broughton write that “many of the people involved with its early days blanch
at using ‘disco’ to describe the music and clubs they knew and loved. They
don’t really have an alternative name, but they have a strong need to
distinguish their music – funky and soulful – and their scene
– small, gritty and underground – from what disco eventually became
and from how disco is seen by most people today.” [16]
Recently
scholars have attempted to restore disco’s original reputation.
Kai Fikentscher , in his study of
underground dance music in New York City, argues that definitions of disco [17]
have progressively distorted from “first referring to a specific musical
environment, then to a type of popular music, and later to various styles of
dress and hair and a leisure-time philosophy of extravagance, hedonism and, to
some, decadence.” [18]
Fikentscher prefers to return to a concept that denotes “a particular
performance environment in which technologically mediated music is made
immediate at the hands of a DJ, and in which this music is responded to via
dance by bodies on the dance floor.” [19]
This
reclaims the term from its culturally pejorative connotations and places its
music front and centre.
“Disco music” is often used as a
catchall for various genres (funk, soul, Latin) that in fact share few common
traits other than their role in a certain specific space (discos) at a certain
specific time (the 1970s).
Brewster
and Broughton claim that an amalgamation of these musical styles took place
upon the arrival of the major record companies to the disco scene:
As disco became a
financial force, the music changed considerably. It had begun not as a genre,
but as an amalgam of whatever danceable records the DJs could lay their hands
on. Rock, soul, funk, Latin: there was no single style or tempo which
characterized the music played in the disco’s underground years. In its
commercial period, the opposite became true. Few major label
A&R
executives had any great understanding of the club scene from which this music
had emerged, so they could only see it in terms of its most basic generalities.
They looked at the records which had crossed over, noted a few common
denominators, and concluded that there was a simple formula for making disco. [20]
While
diversity characterized original disco music, at some point a formula surfaced
for a particular “disco beat” and “disco bassline” that in turn became a
self-fulfilling prophecy for disco as a musical genre. The poumtchak pattern
was part of this formula and it promptly disappeared from most popular music
production in the 1980s, probably as a casualty of its strong association to
that stereotypical disco music of the late 1970s.
The
origin of club culture
All
histories are constructs, and some are more reliable than others. This holds
true for music as well. Joseph G. Schloss, for example, asserts that hip-hop
“grew through a series of small innovations that were later retroactively defined
as foundational.” [21]
A list of these sorts of pivotal innovations necessarily involves a
simplification of reality but can nevertheless provide a starting point for
investigation. In the case of electronic dance music and its roots in disco, we
might start our own history of small innovations with a singular New York
nightclub:
the Loft .
In
1970,
David Mancuso
started arranging parties in his own home (a loft) at 647 Broadway in New York;
when he later changed homes, the parties went with him. Mancuso is not the
first DJ, and the Loft is not the first nightclub, but the two would set the
disco bar.
Brewster
and Broughton describe the Loft as “more influential than any nightclub before
or since, it was the place where the music you dance to today, and the place
you go to do it, were first envisaged.” [22]
Its foundational
principles included the following: a focus on dancers and dancing; an
appreciation of the obscure track; a mediation of music through a dedicated
sound system; and a distinction between members and non-members. These
principles have followed club culture throughout its historical development and
therefore merit further discussion here.
The approach of the
disco DJ, part 1: the focus on the dancers
The Loft ’s focus on dancers
and participation in general was explicit.
Mancuso
considered the
DJ to be a provider of good dance music, but not in any way a focal point for
dancers. This dictate points to ways in which the experience of dance music
culture diverges from a conventional popular music concert experience, where
people do in fact watch the “performer.” Mancuso’s approach required a full
commitment to the act of being moved by the music that was incompatible with a
focus on the DJ’s performance. Nevertheless, the major record companies who
moved in on this culture saw music exclusively driven by an artist or group:
“to make disco work for them, they squeezed it into the star-based marketing
structures which had worked so well with rock . . . Most major labels, used to
marketing famous people whose poster you could buy and whose career you could
follow, only felt comfortable with this club music if they could dress it up
with all sorts of artists and group-based fronts.” [23]
Marketing
fame and stardom did not coincide with Mancuso’s original approach, however;
popularity interfered with the idea of the DJ as fundamentally beholden to the
dancers. But when disco suddenly became profitable, avoiding recognition meant
missing opportunities, and not only of the economic variety. A DJ’s natural
ambition to expand his loyal followers (for his club, or a particular music
genre) would likewise suffer.
Lawrence
describes a
“contradictory and irresolvable tension between protecting oneself from
overexposure while simultaneously transforming the world.” [24]
The
risk of DJ overexposure, of course, evokes constructions of underground versus
mainstream and authenticity versus “selling out” – the perception that
one has abandoned one’s principles for commercial success. This is a central
theme in observations about corruption by commerce in popular music culture as
well. But in a dance music context, it all comes back to the dancefloor.
In the electronic dance music scene
of the 1990s, this tension around influence persisted as DJs grew ever more
popular. Their numerous performing aliases perhaps represent an attempt to
avoid focus, and most CD covers and music videos of dance music acts avoided a
lot of face time for the performers. But acts did begin to happen in
traditional concert venues as well, [25]
despite the fact that they were simply not as visually interesting as a rock
band or pop artist. Because these later audiences saw themselves as spectators
rather than participants (and were largely unaware of the cultural codes of the
dancefloor), dance acts had to provide (often artificial) visual focal points, [26]
such as background movies, slide shows, light shows, dancers, vocalists, or
instrumentalists.
Tony Langlois ,
in his article on house music from 1992, affirms those producer-DJs as largely
unassuming characters, despite the drawbacks: “Even when showcasing their own
material, perhaps on television pop shows, they tend to remain in the
background, usually in ‘groups’ fronted by ‘featured vocalists’ who give the
music a visual and compositional focus.” [27]
A DJ
who sought approval from original fans and cultural insiders had to avoid
attention at the risk of being deemed arrogant by new or potential fans. In
production processes this dilemma may be reflected by choices of auditory focal
points that can double as visual focal points in performances (or the lack
thereof).
The
approach of the disco DJ, part 2: the obscure tracks
To find obscure dance tracks and to
introduce them successfully to dancers was another of
Mancuso ’s dictates. At
the Loft
one would often
hear music that was played nowhere else. Though Mancuso was probably not the
most inventive or influential of DJs, – for example, he insisted on
playing tracks in their entirety rather than mixing them – his taste in
music established a powerful precedent for the disco scene.
Brewster
and Broughton
in fact point to
Francis
Grasso
as “the first modern DJ.” [28]
Grasso
started DJing in 1968, and he was renowned for his ingenuity in keeping the
beat going, forming his music sets in a narrative manner using mostly rather
obscure tracks: “Grasso stormed the profession out of servitude and made the DJ
the musical head chef. DJ Francis didn’t follow the pop chart menu, and he
didn’t meekly bring the customer what he’d ask for. Instead, he cooked up a
nightly banquet of new and exotic musical dishes which the diners, though they
devoured them eagerly and came back for more, might never have known to order.” [29]
A similar attraction to obscure music
arose in the northern English club scene at the same time. The “Northern Soul”
scene accommodated a new passion for dancing to early Motown soul music and the
like, and DJs competed to turn up old or underappreciated recordings.
Brewster
and Broughton
observe that “northern soul’s most significant contribution to the DJ’s trade
was to introduce the idea of connoisseurship . . . until soul, dance music had
been largely about playing the hits of the day. Since the northern scene
thrived on rarities, it made the DJ’s profession as much archaeology as record
playing.” [30]
This knack for “archaeology” came to characterize the successful DJ of any
musical style, and it found even more momentum in the subsequent era of digital
sampling. Of hip-hop producers, for example, Schloss writes: “The process of
acquiring rare, usually out-of-print, vinyl records for sampling purposes has
become a highly developed skill . . . Individuals who give themselves to this
quest are held in high esteem.” [31]
Consequently, the DJ who tries to please the crowd with likeable, popular
tracks may garner less respect than the DJ who presents his or her individual
taste in music (provided it is good). [32]
Brewster
and Broughton
agree: “The real work of a DJ happens behind the scenes – searching dark
record stores, devouring endless lists and daunting stacks of vinyl, and
sniffing out the wonders they contain.” [33]
Playing popular tracks, on the other hand, carries risks. These tracks have the
advantage (or disadvantage) of being recognized and thereby evoking
associations, either good (linked to earlier positive dancing experiences) or
bad (seeming lame or predictable). If dancers come to expect to hear music they
have not heard before, they may be disenchanted by the choices of the less
progressive DJ.
Playing popular tracks may get the
crowd dancing, then, but it can also harm the DJ’s reputation. The lure of
obscurity remains strong in the digital era in the choice of material for
sampling or copying [34]
as well as in less obvious decisions concerning rhythm patterns (like the
poumtchak pattern), basslines, specific sounds, melodic themes, and the use of
effects.
The
approach of the disco DJ, part 3: The focus on good sound
The
sound system at
the Loft
was constantly upgraded and refurbished to offer the best experience to the
dancers.
Mancuso
collaborated with sound engineer
Alex
Rosner
to improve sound systems particularly for nightclubs, with “Mancuso
supplying the visionary ideas for Rosner’s practical expertise.” [35]
Larry Levan , the most
famous DJ from another club,
the Paradise Garage
(1977/78–83), was also known for his commitment to sound quality,
according to Lawrence: “Because the room’s acoustics were in a state of constant
flux, Levan would also tweak the system as the night progressed, introducing
modifications to take account of an additional two thousand bodies on the
dancefloor, subsequent shifts in humidity levels, and eventual ear fatigue, and
this remorseless quest for perfection meant that [sound engineer Richard] Long
had to re-equalize the system every Friday and Saturday.” [36]
A
focus on good sound and a dedicated sound system distinguishes genuine dance
clubs. This focus is not unique among contemporary live music scenes, but
certain aspects of sound are more significant to the dance music scene than
elsewhere, such as the ability to control low frequencies to produce an
effective bass-drum “punch.” With digital recording techniques the process of
choosing and shaping sounds using compression and equalization has become more
straightforward, but the demands concerning these matters have become more
stringent as well. In this sense it is helpful to be both a DJ and a producer
so that one might test how certain mixes behave on a dedicated sound system and
thus learn about essential details for mixing techniques.
the approach of the disco DJ, part 4: the
underground position
The Loft
remained a private
club to avoid certain city ordinances, and one needed an invitation to be
admitted. [37]
DJ and clubgoer
David
DePino
described the situation to
Lawrence : “Finding the
door in the first place remained a formidable obstacle. ‘These were the first
parties where you had to know somebody to get in,’ says David DePino, who went
to the Broadway spot several times. ‘You couldn’t find out about them by asking
around because nobody knew and they were never advertised. You had to be
invited. It was very underground.’” [38]
The
(sometimes arbitrary) determination of insiders versus outsiders is not unique
to dance music cultures, but the abuse of the privilege of doing so (for
example, the infamous rudeness of the doormen at
Studio 54
in New York) has
become linked to disco. The concept of a dance “underground” could be said to
have originated with these first unlicensed parties. According to
Fikentscher , New York’s initial
underground (in the 1950s) “referred to a socio-cultural avant-garde” [39]
that included beat poets, performance artists, painters, musicians, and other
groups that defined themselves somehow in opposition to the public in general
and also by and large to the commercialization of culture. When
DePino
describes the Loft
as “very underground,” [40]
he
refers to the club’s status as beyond the reach of almost anyone save a small
group of the invited.
The Loft
also evokes traditional associations of the underground with some sort of
illegal resistance activity that is hidden from the government in power. But
while disco as a dance culture in New York City arose as a type of
countercultural lifestyle that was largely unknown to the general public, these
associations gradually fell away as it became more popular. So how are the
succeeding constellations of disco/dance clubs, music styles, and record labels
even recognizable as part of an inherently underground scene?
Lawrence
admits that
this is “a slippery concept” [41]
in
relation to disco culture, since the reality of the situation defied such
expectations: “Should it include cutting-edge discotheques, even though they
were open to the general public? And should it be applied to radical DJs, even
if they were generating chart smashes and playing commercial clubs?” [42]
Disco’s connection to the underground, however, would be vital to countering
the negative associations with it that emerged at the end of the 1970s.
Fikentscher
uses “underground” as a prefix in
his book on dance music to explain “that the associated type of music –
and its cultural context – are familiar only to a small number of
informed persons. Underground also points to the sociopolitical function of the
music, framing it as one type of music that in order to have meaning and
continuity is kept away, to a large degree, from mainstream society, mass
media, and those empowered to enforce prevalent moral and aesthetic codes and
values.” [43]
In comparison to the ultimate (over)exposure of disco, the dance music of the
1980s definitely happened outside the public eye and remained comfortably
“underground.” But the difficulty of negotiating this status re-emerged with
the popularity of dance music in the 1990s. Its early illegal raves and
associations with drugs preserved for it a sort of underground status, even
when its events attracted huge crowds and massive public attention. By the new
millennium, though, its widespread popularity demanded a fresh reappraisal of
its “underground” status.
In
Sarah Thornton ’s
study
of club culture , she writes: “The term
‘underground’ is the expression by which clubbers refer to things subcultural.
More than fashionable or trendy, ‘underground’ sounds and styles are
‘authentic’ and pitted against mass-produced and mass-consumed. Undergrounds
denote exclusive worlds whose main point may not be elitism but whose
parameters often relate to particular crowds.” [44]
According to Thornton, then, “underground” may be used
rather liberally to indicate any degree of subcultural affiliation; she also
links it to a certain type of authenticity that eschews overexposure. But
“authenticity” in dance music culture can be even more problematic than the
“underground.” [45]
Since the acts of dancing and playing records (made by
others) are central focal points in dance music cultures, hierarchies of authenticity
necessarily differ from pop music scenes in which the live performance
typically underpins authenticity. [46]
In this respect,
“underground” thus depends upon the common knowledge shared by insiders of
dance music–related subcultures. Insiders, once the relatively few
invited members of
the Loft , have come to comprise an intricate network of subcultural
environments, one with many “undergrounds” and an equal number of opposing
“mainstreams.”
Thornton
criticizes earlier works
in cultural studies that rely upon definite dichotomies between certain groups
and an established “mainstream.” [47]
Such dichotomies almost always involve the reduction and
oversimplification of real life. She also points to the role of the media in
club culture and specifically that culture’s assertion of its subcultural
identity. [48]
As I have tried to demonstrate, the
meaning of “underground” has changed with various developments in the music
cultures that rely upon the concept. Nevertheless, it remains relevant. In both
DJing and music production, constructions of “underground” and “mainstream”
affect many choices about both the art and the context of its appreciation. [49]
The end of the disco era
Disco music is a
disease. I call it disco dystrophy . . . The people victimized by this killer
disease walk around like zombies. We must do everything possible to stop the
spread of this plague. [50]
– Radio DJ Steve Dahl
Steve Dahl
has become a
vehicle for the disapproval of disco music in the United States. He is
associated with the “disco sucks” slogan and the infamous “ Disco Demolition
Night ” at baseball’s
Comiskey
Park
in Chicago on July 12, 1979, where reduced admission was offered in
exchange for old disco records that were in turn blown up inside a container
partway through the game. An anti-disco riot ensued that ultimately prevented
the game from finishing. [51]
Brewster
and Broughton
observe that this protest was in fact not unique: “Dislike for disco was
everywhere. The rock generation saw it as the antithesis of all that was holy:
no visible musicians, no ‘real’ stars, no ‘live’ performance. It was music
based wholly on consumption, music with no aesthetic purpose, indeed with no
purpose at all other than making your body twitch involuntarily. Dehumanizing,
expressionless, content-less – the judgements were damning.” [52]
Following
the incident in Chicago, disco clearly fell from grace, at least in the United
States.
The
major record labels
had forced this dance-related music culture into a
typical star performer-oriented package, and the public in turn experienced
lip-synching , derivative
arrangements, and other studio “fakery” as evidence of disco’s (rather than the
disco business’s) illegitimacy. [53]
The
major labels saw disco as a passing phenomenon that had to be “exploited as
quickly and thoroughly as possible.” [54]
This
fate would then become self-fulfilling.
The
capitalist exploitation of this cultural phenomenon appears to have involved
not only record companies but also corporations of all sorts. [55]
The casualties of this rather short period of excessive exposure must have
worried later dance music insiders as well. While acts (or at least their
music) need attention, too much of it can present a problem.
Two
other issues may also have contributed profoundly to disco’s fate in the United
States: its African American musical roots and its strong connection to gay
culture. [56]
A majority of the performers in disco music were African Americans. Racist
tendencies were still quite common in the United States in the 1970s and the
major record labels may have been worried about the prejudices of the general
American public. After disco’s demise, African American performers would
generally lose ground in the public eye until hip-hop increased in popularity
in the late 1980s. [57]
The
gay clubs of New York City (and
Fire Island ) had
been very influential in the shaping of disco culture since the early 1970s.
The decade was formative for the gay liberation movement, and its celebration
in disco culture made a difference in this regard.
The Village People ,
assembled by
Jacques Morali
and
Henri Belolo
in 1977,
was
probably the first group
in popular music history to overtly display a connection to gay culture while
gaining widespread commercial success. [58]
Many
Americans in fact probably missed the group’s connotations of a gay lifestyle
as they bought the music. [59]
But
for those who hated disco and all of its associations, the Village People, with
their constructed history and exceptional focus on image, became a perfect
target for disdain. [60]
In
his study of underground dance music in New York City,
Fikentscher
considers its relations to African
American and gay culture, arguing that dance music’s perpetuation in the 1980s
was to a large extent due to these cultural groups: “ Larry Levan ’s reign at
the Paradise Garage ,
as well as
Frankie Knuckles ’s
rise to ‘Godfather of House’ or
Junior Vasquez ’s
long-term association with
the Sound Factory
cannot be explained without considering the consistent support these DJs had
and have in gay communities and/or those defined by ethnicity.” [61]
Because disco faded from public awareness early in the 1980s, producers and DJs
could explore new variations upon dance music that were more in line with the
needs of their supporters. Buckland assumes that most Americans by late 1981
had turned their attention to the economy and unemployment, and that “under
these circumstances, the core audience for dance music, a significant segment
of whom were urban gay clubgoers, became an even stronger influence on the artistic
direction of the music.” [62]
The 1980s continuation of
dance music culture
(Paradise)
Garage and (The ware)house
Both
the Paradise Garage
in New York and
the
Warehouse
in Chicago opened in 1977.
Larry Levan
and
Frankie Knuckles
had been participants in the New York dance scene since the early 1970s; they
had been regular visitors to
the
Loft
and had DJed together at
the Continental Baths . [63]
Larry Levan turned down an offer to DJ at the Warehouse in Chicago because of
his commitment at the new Paradise Garage. He in turn recommended Frankie
Knuckles, who accepted.
The
Paradise Garage and the Warehouse are probably the most important links between
1970s disco and the electronic dance music scene of the 1980s and 1990s.
Fikentscher
writes, “Paradise Garage
may very well have been the most influential nightclub worldwide, especially in
its heyday during the early 1980s. It was a dance mecca to a group of loyal
regulars, most of them gay and African American, who came every Saturday to pay
homage to Larry Levan, the resident DJ, regarded as one of the most influential
figures in underground dance music.” [64]
Paradise Garage was a refuge for the genuine appreciation of disco music and
culture in its later years. It presents an evocative counterpoint to the more
famous
Studio 54 , which
exploited the more artificial aspects of disco culture while slighting the
music and the dancing.
The Warehouse
in
Chicago is more renowned for its role in the development of house music. It was
placed in a former factory building in West Central Chicago with a capacity of
around two thousand people. The crowd was predominantly black and gay and club
nights could last from midnight Saturday to midday Sunday. Simon Reynolds
writes: “It was here that Knuckles began to experiment with editing disco
breaks on a reel-to-reel tape recorder, reworking and recombining the raw
material . . . that would soon evolve into house.” [65]
Two
of the main genres of electronic dance music, in fact, have names announcing
their origins in these clubs: “garage” and “house.” [66]
Most
of the music
Frankie
Knuckles
played at
the Warehouse
and
Larry Levan
played at
the Paradise Garage
at the end of the 1970s and the beginning of the 1980s was disco derived and
had no explicit resemblance to the later genres. But it was their perpetuation
of a particular
approach
to dance music that allowed for those later breakthroughs. When the production
of disco music withered in the United States after 1980, these DJs found new
material in genres like European synth-pop and Italo disco. With the inclusion
of drum machines in the DJ’s music set, new genres of dance music were in the
offing.
Frankie
Knuckles left
the
Warehouse
in 1983 to open the Power Plant. The Warehouse was shut down, and
a smaller club called the Music Box was opened:
Ron Hardy
was hired to DJ
there. His style was wilder than Knuckles’s;
Sean Bidder , in
his
book on house music , describes how “he’d mess with the
EQ , clatter beats together
for minutes on end, phase the bass in and out violently.” [67]
The
friendly rivalry between Knuckles and Hardy would give rise to many innovations
with regard to entertaining and challenging their crowds, introducing new
material, and using new music technology.
Through
experiments with inexpensive drum machines and synthesizers, a new style of
dance music and new production techniques began to transform the scene. [68]
The independent labels
Trax
and
DJ
International
were responsible for all of the releases of Chicago house
music between 1985 and 1989. The productions, from tape copies to vinyl, were
very simple and involved minimal financial risk; distribution took place
primarily through special local stores. [69]
DJs
at clubs and local radio stations (for example,
the Hot Mix 5
at
WBMX ) did the promotional work
through simply playing the music. Interestingly, Chicago house music’s first
major impact would be overseas.
American
dance music in Britain
The
music of the clubs in Chicago was predominantly introduced to Britain via New
York and the Balearic island of
Ibiza .
In 1986,
DJ
International
representatives brought Chicago house records to
the New Music Seminar
in New York.
Pete Tong , a
radio DJ and A&R scout for the British company
London Records , attended
the showcase and brought the music back to his employers. In Britain he
contributed to the
House Sounds of Chicago
compilations, spreading the music while
establishing the genre’s name.
The
initial appreciation of house music in Britain occurred mainly in northern
cities, especially Manchester. [70]
The Haçienda Club ,
open since 1982, jumped in popularity when the house music of Chicago was
introduced. Haçienda DJ
Mike Pickering
attributed this to the prior
Northern Soul scene
in
that part of Britain: “I think Northern Soul probably played a part in house music
taking off . . . there were a lot of similarities with house. It was very
soulful, four to the floor fast music. I mean when we started the Friday night
at the Hac [Haçienda], we got quite a lot of the old northern boys coming down.
I was playing
Adonis ’s
‘ No Way Back ,’ and could see lots of
people doing Northern Soul dances.” [71]
House
music became popular in London roughly a year later, beginning with a legendary
birthday party at
Ibiza
and a
rather small city club called Shoom. The Argentinean DJ Alfredo ( Alfredo Fiorito )
worked at the Ibiza club
Amnesia , and he
usually started playing after 6.00 a.m. to attract partygoers returning from
other clubs (Amnesia was then an “after hours” club). He had been introduced to
Chicago house music through a record dealer from New York and mixed these
tracks with old and new dance music from all over the world. [72]
In September 1987,
Paul Oakenfold
had gone to the island to celebrate his twenty-sixth birthday with a few
friends, all of whom were in some way involved with London’s club scene. Their
experience of the Ibiza club, Alfredo’s music mix, and the recreational drug
Ecstasy inspired them to introduce a similar scene in London. [73]
Shoom was not their first attempt in this respect, but it was the most
significant in triggering the popularity of house music in the south of
England.
These
stories involve the transferences of a music culture and the means through
which a local culture
appropriates
an imported one. This issue has been discussed
thoroughly in the field of culture studies, [74]
particularly through a critique of stereotypical views of “globalization” as
the passive consumption of culture shaped by multinational commercial corporations
(mainly American).
John Storey
argues that “globalization is not simply the production of a homogenized
American global village in which the particular is washed away by the
universal. The process is much more contradictory and complex, involving the
ebb and flow of both homogenizing and heterogenizing forces and the meeting and
mingling of the ‘local’ and ‘global’ in new forms of hybrid cultures.” [75]
Jan Nederveen Pieterse
argues
that the concept of hybridization here is in effect a tautology since cultures
always have been hybrids. [76]
Storey agrees and emphasizes that “all cultures have appropriated what was at
first ‘foreign,’ which was gradually absorbed as ‘second nature.’” [77]
He finds it more relevant to describe “routes” than “roots” in order to
demonstrate “the nomadic nature of global cultures.” [78]
Chicago
house music’s appropriation in England suits this more complicated view of
cultural transference. Contrary to the larger music industry, which was led by
the major record companies, Chicago house music culture was always dominated by
small, independent record companies, rather inexpensive productions and
minority cultural groups. Nor does British urban culture suit the expected
profile of globalization, given its more established role as an exporter rather
than an importer. Interestingly, however, initial musical influences of the
Chicago scene can be traced to a wide variety of local scenes, including
British
new wave
and
synthpop
(as well as the New
York clubs,
Italo disco ,
and
Philadelphia Soul ). [79]
Furthermore, as
Hillegonda
Rietveld
describes, Chicago house music was indeed later exported
from
Britain
as part of an even more developed “entertainment package called ‘acid house
party’ or ‘rave’” [80]
that included music, drugs, dancing, party events, clothing styles, and so on. [81]
In the subsequent dance music culture, an awareness of all of these early
“routes” became an increasingly relevant indicator of “insider knowledge.” Some
trace these “routes” to early Chicago producers, while others venture further
back to
Mancuso ’s
Loft
or – as in the
Chemical Brothers
track
It Began in Africa
(on the album
Come With Us
from
2002) – all the way to the pre-slavery era.
Negative
attitudes towards disco and dance music late in the 1970s never took over in
Europe as they did in the United States. This allowed house music to flourish
in Britain quite quickly and then spread to other European countries.
Fikentscher
observes that house
remained largely underground in America – like disco, it was “associated
with an urban, primarily non-Caucasian and/or gay core following,” [82]
connections that had little impact upon the British appropriation of it.
Thornton
adds that anti-disco sentiments
in Britain were “more directly derived from classist convictions about mindless
masses and generational conflict about the poor taste of the young,” [83]
while the American discourse connected to the “disco sucks” campaign was more
homophobic and racist. [84]
She
observes that disco in fact had a huge straight white working-class following
in Britain, as it did for a brief time in America as well before it retreated
underground. [85]
With the erasure in a new country of its conflicted past, then, a new wave of
dance music was underway.
The
“Belleville Three” and the rise of
techno
During
the early 1980s and concurrent with the development of house music in Chicago,
musicians in Detroit were also trying out new equipment and producing tracks
with drum machines, sequencers, and synthesizers. Among them,
Juan Atkins ,
Derrick May , and
Kevin Saunderson
have been credited with developing a distinct genre that was eventually named
Detroit techno. Since they had attended the same high school, they were
nicknamed
the
Belleville Three . [86]
In
1987,
Neil Rushton , a
former Northern Soul DJ, noticed that some of the house music imported from
America was produced in Detroit. Through earlier connections in that city,
Rushton managed to obtain licensing rights to some of these producers, and the
following year he convinced
Virgin Records
to
release a compilation of their tracks. First called
The House Sound of Detroit,
the release
was renamed
Techno! The New Dance Sound of
Detroit
to stress its differences from the Chicago releases.
Juan Atkins ’s contribution
to the compillation, actually called
Techno
Music , may also have informed the choice of name. To promote the album,
Rushton brought British journalists to Detroit to meet some of the producers.
As a result, John McCready wrote an article for the
New Musical Express
in July 1988 with
the title “Welcome to the Phuture: Techno” [87]
that
started with the following quotation from Alvin Toffler’s book
The Third Wave :
“The Techno Rebels are, whether they recognise it or not, agents of the Third
Wave. They will not vanish but multiply in the years ahead. For they are as
much a part of the advance to a new stage of civilisation as our mission to
Venus, our amazing computers, our biological discoveries, or our explorations
of the oceanic depths.” [88]
McCready then paints a picture of a desolate setting for this musical movement, [89]
quoting DJ May’s intriguing imagery inspired in turn by Toffler: “I would work
through the night and I would see the city waking up – the face without
the makeup. At night you would see the heat rising in the air from the stacks
of old factory buildings. Now, when I listen to those tracks I see that view, I
see the confusion of a city lost in transition from one age to another. The
city is dying but
Juan
[Atkins]
and the rest of us are all part of the Third Wave, the future.” [90]
Since their music is made using “all the technological advancements Roland and
Yamaha can come up with,” May claims that the producers of Detroit are the
“Techno Rebels . . . musical agents of the Third Wave who see the fusion of man
and machine as the only future.” Pointing to the desolated city, May explains;
“Now you understand why we make this music . . . We can do nothing but look
forward.” [91]
Most
writers consider
Juan
Atkins
to be the foremost Detroit producer, both musically and
intellectually. [92]
He claims that the synth aesthetics of Kraftwerk and the funk music of
Parliament/Funkadelic have had the strongest influence on him. Dan Sicko, in
his book
Techno
Rebels , observes that Atkins was introduced to Toffler’s literature in high
school. At about the same time he started producing tracks with Richard Davis,
an “aspiring electronic musician” whose material was, according to Atkins,
“real abstract . . . avant-garde, electronic montage stuff.” [93]
In a 1988 interview in
Music Technology
Atkins describes how he produces music not only
for clubs and dancing but also to listen to at home: “The music is not for
everybody. It’s for certain people that want a little twist. Some people are
perfectly content with everyday pop – they don’t have an open enough mind
to consider something new. Those aren’t the people I’m playing for; they’ll
come around even­tually, because they’re basically followers. When they’re
told that this is what’s happening, they’ll go along with it.” [94]
Sicko claims that the underlying philosophy of techno, then, “had less to do with
futurism . . . than with the power of the individual and personal visions of
Utopia.” [95]
Toffler’s Third Wave involved a rejection of mass production and mass
consumption that, in the case of music, would appear to align with the
individual artist’s exclusive works rather than the dance music DJ’s interest
in satisfying his or her crowd. Jeff Mills, an influential Detroit contributor,
even defines techno as “something completely new.” [96]
He
says that if you “hear something that kind of sounds like you’ve heard it
before, then it’s not techno.” [97]
The
British journalists visiting Detroit were fascinated by this new technological
music created in response to Toffler’s vision. It in fact articulated a sort of
manifesto with a condition (the symbols of the Second Wave are deteriorating),
a position (new technology is the future), and an intention (to bring their
city into the Third Wave). This manifesto was of course appropriated in many
different ways in Britain’s emerging club scene, but its potensial opposition to
the dance party priorities of Chicago house remained an issue. Sheryl Garratt
had written an article in
The Face
two years earlier, after her visit with producers of house
music in Chicago. She described a production session “where everyone else comes
down to watch” and there is “a party going on in the control room.” [98]
And her interview with DJ
Marshall Jefferson
situated the music directly within the club scene: “House music? I couldn’t even
begin to tell you what House is. You have to go to the clubs and see how people
react when they hear it. It’s more like a feeling that runs through, like
old-time religion in the way that people jus’ get happy and screamin’. It’s
happening! It’s . . . House!” [99]
In
contrast to this earthy movement-oriented description, Detroit techno tends to
be framed as much more rational and intellectual. This dichotomy would gain a
foothold in the discourses connected to the music; Chris Kempster writes in his
book on house music, “While house music was a post-modernist art form,
ruthlessly eclectic to the point where some early house hits were simply thinly
veiled rewrites of other songs, techno’s driving force was innovation. In its
purism, its emphasis on stepping into the unknown, it is as modernist as
Cubism. Detroit pushed dance music into the abstract, built not upon the legacy
of disco, but on the spaces of funk.” [100]
Brewster
and Broughton,
on the other hand, criticize this intellectualized construction of Detroit
techno. [101]
They point out that the Detroit musicians first appeared via the Chicago club
scene, which
Derrick May
visited regularly with his music in tow. Only when the Detroit techno genre
became established did producers begin to imitate the new “formula.”
Thornton
further remarks upon the British
press’s portrayal of techno as the sound of Detroit “despite the fact that the
music was not on the playlist of a single Detroit radio station, nor a regular
track in any but a few mostly gay black clubs.” [102]
The
techno philosophy of the Detroit producers raises several interesting issues.
The most obvious is perhaps the idea of a “pure new music” arising from the
Third Wave’s break with earlier traditions. Inventions are seldom truly new but
instead part of an ongoing process of development, as these DJs themselves
acknowledge.
Derrick May
describes how he was “subconsciously inspired” [103]
in
relation to his music production
while
Juan Atkins
pointed to the
influences of Kraftwerk and Parliament/Funkadelic.
The
uniqueness of the Detroit movement was undoubtedly overemphasized. The tracks
from the city that were most popular in Britain had obvious connections to the
Chicago house scene. [104]
Nevertheless, the absence of a vibrant club scene in Detroit probably did
foster an alternative mentality with regard to music production, and tracks
that were later seen as influential upon the techno genre did comprise
different musical features, such as faster tempo, more variety of drum
patterns, effect processing, and a more exclusive use of electronic instruments
where vocals or acoustic instruments were almost absent. [105]
When
British producers started to create their own electronic dance music tracks,
these Detroit musicians became an important inspiration, both musically and
intellectually. Within a few years, techno had become one of the most dominant
genres of electronic dance music, signifying anything instrumental and
electronic, whether it was intended for dancing or simply listening. While
producers of house music undoubtedly made dance music, techno producers were
also exploring other directions, transporting the music away from the
dancefloor. The differences musically distinguishing house and techno could
sometimes be only minor details, but the notion of their somewhat diverging
approaches and mentality persisted. The increased use of techno as a genre name
early in the 1990s also helped detach this music from the drug-associated “acid
house” scene. Instead, its musical roots and inspiration could be traced via
Detroit techno to Kraftwerk, thereby avoiding the rather fraught disco
association of the Chicago house scene.
Acid
house, rave, and ecstasy
Ecstasy,
or
methylenedioxymethamphetamine
(MDMA),
is inseparably
linked to the history of club culture. A drug that
released feelings of openness, euphoria, empathy, love, and happiness, and even
encouraged one’s appreciation of music and movement, was the perfect
prescription for a club night. Simon Reynolds describes rather vividly how
“Ecstasy turns the entire body surface into an ear, an ultrasensitized membrane
that responds to certain frequencies.” [106]
He
states that “all music sounds better on E – crisper and more distinct . .
. House and techno sound especially fabulous. The music’s emphasis on texture
and timbre enhances the drug’s mildly synesthetic effects so that sounds seem
to caress the listener’s skin. You feel like you’re dancing inside the music;
sound becomes a fluid medium in which you’re immersed.” [107]
Others certainly agree, [108]
and
Ecstasy would play a significant role in the emergence and ultimate widespread
popularity of acid house and rave culture. On the other hand, it succeeded only
in carefully negotiated combination with the music itself, loud sound systems,
and ferocious dancing. [109]
Jesse Saunders, one of the originators of Chicago house music, writes: “Some
people have taken the drug ecstasy while listening to the music to take the
feeling to new heights – they wanted to extend it as much as possible
– but it was never necessary.” [110]
The
third volume in the London Records compilation series of Chicago house music
was subtitled
Acid
Tracks . [111]
Following the success of
Phuture’s track of the same name , numerous new tracks
using the Roland TB-303 arrived in England as well. [112]
Subsequently “acid house” came to specify both the music and the scene it
spawned.
The
spread of acid house parties in the summer of 1988 in Britain has been called
the “ Second Summer
of Love ,” linking them to the hippies while emphasizing the amorous aspects
of Ecstasy. [113]
The music, the party, and the drugs appealed to an ever-increasing number of
youngsters while inspiring fashion stores, major record labels, and even public
newspapers. In Phil Sutcliffe’s 1989 article “Acid House: The Selling of Smiley
Culture,” he describes how the
Sun
spent September 1988 promoting fashion guides, hit lists, and T-shirt
offers related to the acid house scene, only to devote October to warnings
about the “evil of Ecstasy.” [114]
Such publicity in turn motivated police raids on warehouse parties, official
anti-drug campaigns, BBC bans on songs with “acid” in the title or lyrics, and
so on. Newspaper headlines and attempts to control events had the paradoxical
effect of creating more curiosity than anxiety, [115]
and
David Hesmondhalgh sees this as vital to “constructing dance music as
oppositional” [116]
and thus increasing its popularity even more. More patrons also required more
space to party, so events were sometimes moved from inner-city places (clubs
and warehouses) to larger spaces in more rural areas (such as open fields).
These larger events became known as “raves” or “rave parties,” all-night dance
events with DJs, large sound systems, light shows, video screens, laser
effects, and so on. [117]
This first wave of parties lasted until around the end of 1989, when police
activity and increased penalties for unlicensed parties resulted in a slowdown. [118]
Reynolds explains: “Gradually, the ravers became disenchanted: not only were
there more and more rip-off events with shitty sound systems, no-show DJs, and
none of the advertised facilities, but there was a good chance the raves
wouldn’t happen at all.” [119]
The dance music culture of the 1990s
A
second, even larger wave of rave parties lasted from 1990 to 1992. [120]
These were predominantly legal commercial raves or “all-night-rave-style
clubs,” and they spread rapidly from their origin in London and Manchester.
British producers had gradually taken over the scene through their own tracks
and although these tracks were for the most part dance music made with electronic
instruments, various directions were clearly emphasized and identified through
specific genre names.
Myriads
of genres
During
the 1990s, the electronic dance music scene has been characterized by a
multitude of genres and subgenres. [121]
The
following names, for example, identify only variants of house music in
particular; acid house, ambient house, Chicago house, dark house, deep house,
dream house, French house, hip house, Latin house, progressive house, tech
house, and tribal house. [122]
An
ability to navigate among these various subgenres has been important both to
discourses within the dance music culture and to the DJs and producers
providing the musical material.
Jason
Toynbee sees “genres” in popular music as serving at once “as an essence, as a
collection of traits, and in structured opposition to other genres.” [123]
His first solution to this bewildering multiplicity of functions is “to
recognize that genre never can be a static system of classification” [124]
– we must therefore understand genres both as flexible in any current
usage and as changeable over time. Drawing on Steve Neale’s work on genres in
film, Toynbee emphasizes the tension between repetition and difference –
a “structure-deterioration model” [125]
– in his discussion of genre changes within the dance music scene. Neale
particularly relies upon the notion of repetition in production to satisfy a
desire to repeat an earlier experience of pleasure. If this is so, Toynbee
argues genres will mutate at different speeds according to the demand for variations
in order to continue “to offer the promise of bliss.” [126]
In
dance music these processes are deeply related to the dancefloor and how the
music moves the dancers. However, in the 1990s, numerous external processes
were active as well. Many genres and subgenres were constructed by the press or
record companies. British magazines of the 1990s (for example,
i-D, Q, Mixmag,
or
DJ )
raced each other to discover new trends and establish new genres. The magazines
filled a sort of double role, both distributing “insider knowledge” about
current trends and suggesting or satisfying the need for new trends. The
content of what was considered “insider knowledge” had to be constantly
altered, concerning not only music and music genres, but also clothing, clubs,
DJs, producers, labels, drugs, slang, and so on. [127]
These
processes influenced producers and DJs. They had to balance the demands of the
dancefloor, where people would not dance if the music did not fulfil their
needs, with the
demands of the culture to be inventive and
expand
the forms of the genre. In the 1990s this situation would lead to changes in
dance-related genres as well as the development of more “listening-related”
genres. [128]
The
post-rave club scene
Around
1994 the dance scene in Britain moved once and for all from raves to clubs. The
Criminal Justice and Public Order Act of 1994 specified restrictions and fines
that succeeded in putting an end to raves, [129]
and
the result was a flowering of clubs and club culture that ultimately introduced
dance music to an even wider audience worldwide. Clubs of all sizes and types
opened in most major cities, first in Britain and then in the rest of Europe;
they ranged from large, profit-seeking clubs with several dance­floors
playing various music genres to small, gritty clubs run by idealists interested
only in a particular genre. Superclubs like the Ministry of Sound in London or
Cream in Liverpool evolved into whole corporations and brands that included
magazines, clothing, compilation CDs, dance club tours, and so on (not unlike
the many businesses associated with disco culture at the end of the 1970s).
During
the 1990s several DJs/producers from the dance music scene had major
international hits, and the position of the DJ was elevated to a level
equivalent to the popularity or status of any major rock artist. The most
successful DJs, like Fatboy Slim, the Chemical Brothers, DJ Tiësto, or DJ
Sasha, were paid extremely well for a few hours of DJing, a special remix, or a
compilation album. [130]
They became important dance music figureheads as the larger clubs promoted
their shows and the record companies spread their music around the world. But
this massive surge of attention conflicted with one of the basic approaches to
DJing: “After we let the DJ become a superstar, we stopped listening to the
music, we believed the hype, we all went crazy for their first record even if
[it] was utter rubbish.“ [131]
Many
of disco’s dilemmas thus recurred for its heir. The involvement of major record
labels (or their dedicated sub-labels), large clubs, magazines, fashion design,
and the drug business increased as the popularity of dance music reached new
heights.
Brewster
and
Broughton assert that “by the end of the nineties dance music had become big
business, with superclubs, superstar DJs and the dance press wrapped in a
sweaty love triangle . . . Never before had a musical culture been so
thoroughly infiltrated. Despite being rooted in acid house ideals, the dance
world had been built by opportunist entrepreneurs, and it didn’t have many
qualms about selling out.” [132]
Around
2002 the popularity of club culture gradually started decreasing, as the
creativity and innovation of its proponents and performers waned. The overwrought
involvement by corporations and various partakers had turned attention away
from the music and dancing themselves, as it had with disco. The overall
reputation of the music and culture did not ultimately suffer in the same way,
however, and many clubs have continued business as usual across Europe. The
influence of the music is also present in current popular music in various
ways, and new dance acts gains popularity from time to time. [133]
The
late 1990s, then, was the high point for creativity and diversity in electronic
dance music. The clubs could pick and choose from a huge variety of tracks, and
European nightlife experienced an unprecedented flourishing.
a
presentation of two dance acts
I
will now introduce two central dance acts from this period:
Basement Jaxx
from London
and
Daft Punk
from Paris:
Their music will occupy several analyses in chapters 6 and 8.
Basement Jaxx : Simon
Ratcliffe and Felix Buxton made some important contributions on their way to
stardom with their album
Remedy
in 1999. [134]
They started arranging club nights in an impoverished Irish pub in Brixton, an
inner city suburb of London with around 25 percent of its population of African
and/or Caribbean de­scent. [135]
They both DJed at these club nights, attracting a substantial following and
earning a reputation for hosting great parties. [136]
Ratcliffe
and Buxton also formed an independent record label, Atlantic Jaxx Records, and
started producing their own material while working on remixes and productions
for other artists. Their releases got good reviews from several legendary DJs
within the scene, and for their first full album release in 1999, they signed
with the larger independent label XL Recordings. Ratcliffe and Buxton have
mostly kept in the background but have hired various vocalists, generally
ethnic minorities, to serve as focal points for live performances. Since their
breakthrough in 1999, they have released several more successful albums, played
large stadium concerts, produced music videos, given interviews, and so on.
This popstar status has somewhat hobbled their position within club culture.
Daft Punk : Guy-Manuel
de Homem-Christo and Thomas Bangalter took the name
Daft Punk
from a
Melody
Maker
review of their former project, Darlin’, that characterized their
music as “a bunch of daft punk.” [137]
For
the new act, they changed musical direction and started producing electronic
dance music, releasing their debut in 1994 on Soma Records, an independent
Scottish techno/house music label. In 1996 they signed with Virgin and released
Homework ,
a success with both critics and the public. Homem-Christo and Bangalter are
famous for having their faces concealed on photographs, either behind masks or,
since 1999, with robot helmets. [138]
In
an interview with
Mixmag
magazine, they explain their position:
Matthew Collin:
“Do you think you can hide from stardom?” Daft Punk: “In a word, yes. Because
we are Daft Punk and we don’t need to show our faces to get on a magazine cover
or sell shitloads of records . . . Because we remember
Juan Atkins
and
Frankie Knuckles
and all the greats who went before us and didn’t get the respect, the money or
the magazine covers. Because, like them, we’re ordinary boys who happen to make
thrilling tunes; characters thrown up by a culture where it’s the track’s
impact on the dancefloor that counts, not the artist’s image.” [139]
Daft
Punk released their second full-length album in 2001 ( Discovery ) and a Japanese animated film
visualizing its music in 2003. [140]
The
group has since released one studio album and several remix and concert albums.
Their popularity has gradually diminished with the general dropoff of interest
in club culture.
Each
group draws attention to certain important issues relative to the club cultural
landscape. The Brixton club of
Basement Jaxx
represents
a real dedication to the most central issue of club culture: making people
dance. Its location may have been coincidental but nevertheless communicates
the correct “underground” approach in its distance from the more trendy and
rich areas of London. The fact that they first formed their own label and then
signed to an independent one also signifies their interest in avoiding the most
notorious commercial sides of the business. The use of non-Caucasian artists to
front their project relates probably to the desire for a specific sound but may
also evoke earlier influential genres (funk, disco, Chicago house) or
contributors to the scene. [141]
Finally, their success may have been at the expense of their impact on the
dancefloor – too many magazine covers, music videos, stadium concerts,
celebrity contributors, [142]
and so on may have turned the “inside” clubgoer against them. The
Daft Punk
members’ tactic of
hiding their faces successfully deflects this “inappropriate” focus.
Furthermore, their robot outfits link them to Kraftwerk, among other important
precursors. Daft Punk also evokes the intellectual avant-garde through, for
example, the subversive use of a critical review. [143]
Their Japanese animation film also represents an unexpected and original move
that demonstrates artistic independence as well as a certain hipness, at least
in some contexts.
In
this study, I selected the music of
Basement Jaxx
and
Daft Punk
for both its
quality and its impact. The various moves they have made in the cultural
landscape demonstrate their focus on producing good dance music and their
acknowledgement of core principles within the culture.
Summary
Several
important subjects in this chapter are related to the early developments of
club culture in New York City.
David Mancuso , who
started
the Loft
in the
early 1970s, had specific notions about what constituted a dance event and what
role the DJ ought to play: the focus should be on the dancers, not on the DJ;
the DJ should introduce music to the dancers that they had not heard before;
and the club’s sound system should be the best it can be. Also relevant to the
Loft was its underground status and corresponding distinction between
“insiders” and the uninvited. Issues of authenticity in dance music cultures
relate directly to this status and its related “insider knowledge” and proper
attitude towards mainstream exposure. This last topic has been highlighted
through examples of the overexposure of disco culture towards the end of the
1970s and its sudden decline in popularity around the turn of the decade.
During
the early 1980s the perpetuation of disco music was especially vital to
underground clubs in Chicago ( the Warehouse )
and New York City ( Paradise
Garage ), and new genres of dance music arose in disco’s wake. Chicago house
music was in turn imported to Britain and spawned a new wave of dance music
culture involving massive followings and huge events (raves) that were also
linked to the drug Ecstasy. A parallel musical import came from Detroit
producers, whose more intellectual approach provided the roots also for an
electronic music that was less directly linked to the dancefloor.
In
the 1990s electronic dance music splintered into intricate hierarchies of
genres and subgenres. The issue of “insider knowledge” arose particularly
around the ability to navigate among them. The dance culture continued to grow
in popularity both in Britain and worldwide, and its most famous DJs were
elevated to levels of popularity or status matching those of any major rock
artist. The issue of overexposure also arose again as superclubs evolved into
large corporations and spawned numerous businesses related to the culture. A
decline in the popularity of dance music began around 2002 amid decreasing
creativity and innovation within the scene.
Dance
music acts like
Basement Jaxx
and
Daft Punk
participate
in (and to some extent create) this story. They define themselves according to
the prevailing opinions and fields of tension within the culture, especially
with regard to appearances in the press, choice of record label, or balance
between DJing and producing, to say nothing of their music itself. From the
1970s to the 1990s, major changes occurred in the circumstances of music
production.
In the following chapter I will more
closely examine contexts related to music production and the major developments
in music technology.
Chapter 2:
Dance music production and the
development of music technology
The
development of related technology has been a core issue for electronic dance music
throughout its existence. Several genre-defining musical features are in fact
directly linked to specific pieces of equipment, and production techniques are
likewise linked to the pivotal transition from analogue to digital formats. New
possibilities within music production have been vital to the genre’s repetitive
form and emphasis on sound and rhythmic structures. Moreover, the role of the
DJ has gradually expanded into the field of music production due to new
products such as the twelve-inch dance remix, and to new and less expensive
musical equipment.
An
awareness of these various relationships and some ability to distinguish among
the different types of music equipment and production techniques are both part
of the genre’s “insider knowledge” and intricately linked to the many issues of
authenticity that exist in dance music cultures. In the following I will
outline some of the changes that occurred as this music developed.
Dance music production from the 1970s to the 1990s
The
production of disco music
Disco
in the 1970s relied exclusively upon analogue studio production techniques. The
genre enjoyed a virtually limitless number of recording tracks compared to
music of the previous decade, and more tracks (up to forty-eight in
professional studios in the late 1970s) offered more possibilities for
overdubbing and accommodated larger musical ensembles. Editing was only
possible through the cutting and pasting of actual pieces of tape, however
– a decidedly laborious process relative to the succeeding digital era.
The
use of click tracks to keep a steady pulse became increasingly common during
the 1970s, especially in disco productions, where a firm, constant beat was
highly prized. The click track, along with disco’s overdubbing techniques, was at
the time denigrated as insincere or artificial by popular music authorities
outside the genre. Because the rock concert still represented the ideal for
what was done in the studio, the techniques that best evoked live performance
were more highly regarded, at least in some popular music circles. [144]
Two
contrasting examples of disco production are the Philadelphia soul sound (from
the record label Philadelphia International) of Kenneth Gamble, Leon Huff, and
Thom Bell, and the so-called Eurodisco of Georgio Moroder. [145]
The
Philly sound arose among studio musicians that had spent years honing their
musical interaction and remarkable reputations; John A. Jackson describes them
as “Philadelphia’s ‘A-team’ of studio players.” [146]
He
further observes that “the core of this endowed group was its rhythm section,
‘a family [that] worked together and played off of each other.’” [147]
An essential element here was the hi-hat patterns and the distinct hi-hat sound
clearly elevated in the mixing process. In addition, string and brass ensembles
and overdubbed vocals in the Philly productions contributed to define the lush
sound of disco.
Among
Moroder’s productions, Donna Summer’s
I Feel Love
from 1977 is often seen
as the clearest counterpoint to the generally acoustic Philly sound – its
backing track, in fact, was produced mostly by one person with a Moog
synthesizer. Even the hi-hat and snare drum sounds were produced
electronically, though the bass drum had to be overdubbed to get the proper
punch. [148]
In addition to the highly influential Kraftwerk albums from the 1970s, this
track anticipated later electronic dance music developments both with its sound
and its production techniques.
These
two production approaches, the group of musicians playing together and the
single person with his/her machines, resonate with very different discourses on
authenticity in popular music culture. [149]
The
contrast between organic, dynamic interaction (music that is “with feel”) and
the mechanical and automatic (“without feel”) is immediately relevant to
discussions about rhythm and conceptions of groove. [150]
In
the production of electronic dance music, of course, machines have become
increasingly important, but the tension surrounding them remains and influences
producers to this day. [151]
The
remix and the twelve-inch
The
dance remix, often released on a twelve-inch single, and the production tech­niques
associated with it are also important to the development of dance music in the
1970s. [152]
These innovations are attributed to producer Tom Moulton, who was frustrated by
the disruption of the flow of the music when DJs had to rely upon ordinary
singles, produced primarily for radio, which lasted only three minutes or so. [153]
Using simple tape-recording techniques, Moulton produced a mixed tape with
forty-five minutes of continuous music whose success gave rise to, among other
things, a part in the production of Gloria Gaynor’s album
Never Can Say Goodbye
(1974). This
record would feature a side-long medley of three songs, segued together as if
played by a DJ. Moulton did this by extending the instrumental sections of the
songs, a technique that would become basic to mixing techniques in dance music.
In 1975, Giorgio Moroder produced an
extended version of Donna Summer’s
Love to Love You
Baby
that occupied an entire side of an LP at almost seventeen minutes long. [154]
The
qualities that made the twelve-inch as a product so effective for dance music
are said to have arisen by accident. [155]
Tom
Moulton and his assistant José Rodriguez were short of seven-inch blanks and
decided to fill a ten-inch blank with the three-minute track instead. Rodriguez
had to raise the level by +6 decibels to make the grooves fill the disc, and
the resulting dynamic improvements were clearly audible, in both low- and
high-frequency areas, in turn introducing more bass and more brightness. Will
Straw, in his article on the twelve-inch single, writes: “The wider grooves
made possible in the twelve-inch format lent themselves strikingly to the
demands of superior dance club sound systems, and low-end frequencies could be
heard with greater clarity.” [156]
The
first commercial twelve-inch disco mix was Double Exposure’s
Ten Percent
from 1976, which was
produced by Walter Gibbons and released on Salsoul Records. The track comprises
two long verse-chorus sequences, one with vocals and one without. Gibbons’s
emphasis on percussion is considered integral to the twelve-inch “sound.”
Prior
to this mass release, the twelve-inch had been produced exclusively for DJs,
and this practice continued alongside the commercially produced versions. DJ
copies (usually clearly labeled “promotional – not for sale”) contributed
significantly to the DJ’s standing in the music community as someone with
special access to material. The labels on these copies did not display images
or logos of the performers. [157]
Given its alliance to the principle of purposely deflecting the attention of
the crowd, [158]
this practice became more and more common in the 1980s and 1990s, even extending
to commercially released remixes.
The
impact of the twelve-inch has certainly been commercial as well as cultural, [159]
though the dancefloor has remained the priority here – the twelve-inch’s
arrangements and mixing derived from ideals other than (and even opposed to)
those of radio play. Moreover, as Straw argues, twelve-inch disco mixes came to
be identified with the “appropriate” records for DJs: “The original sense of
disco records, as those which ‘crossed over’ from other musical fields, would
diminish as the process of crossing over became inscribed in the text of
records predestined for the disco market, like the disco versions of soul, pop,
rock, Broadway and classical pieces which continued through the late 1970s.” [160]
Taking into account all of the twelve-inch disco mixes produced during the
second half of the 1970s, a standardization in style becomes obvious,
especially in those disco versions of previously released material. [161]
But stylistic variety exists as well. The twelve-inch discs usually consisted
of tracks from five to nine minutes long whose expanse invited creative
experiments with the verse/chorus format. [162]
Build-up sections, long groove-oriented breaks, and vocal or instrumental
improvisations with a rhythmic emphasis all lent themselves remarkably well to
the dancefloor.
The
twelve-inch also brought DJs into the studio, where their club experience
helped them to decide exactly which features to emphasize in the remix or which
sections to extend for maximum impact on the dancefloor. From spinning records
to assistance in mixing and then independently remixing existing material, the
role of the DJ has gradually expanded to full-scale music production, which
contributed also to the DJ’s eventual rise to star performer in the dance music
scene of the 1990s.
The
production of Chicago house music
The
development of Chicago house music is closely linked to the new musical
instruments produced early in the 1980s. The analogue Roland drum machines were
especially effective in DJ sets, and crowds would often continue to dance only
to them, once the song had ended. This experience in turn encouraged
Chicago-based DJs to attempt to produce dance music with synthesizers, drum
machines, and tape recorders outside of the traditional studio.
One
of the very first contributors to this “homemade” Chicago house music was the
DJ Jesse Saunders, who recorded and released
On and On
in 1983–84 using a
Roland TR-808 drum machine, a Roland TB-303 bassline synthesizer, a Korg Poly
61 synthesizer, and a four-track tape recorder. [163]
The
record was very popular at influential Chicago house clubs, and when the rumour
spread that this simple but effective track was produced by a local DJ, it led
to many similar attempts. As
Marshall Jefferson ,
an important DJ/producer
within the Chicago house scene, states: “That was the single most
important record to me of the twentieth century, because it let the
non-musician know that he could make music. It was the revolution.” [164]
Jefferson is describing a democratization process within music production that
began after the 1970s. The increasing availability of music production tools
outside of the professional studio gave new groups of contributors a chance to
make their own dance music. [165]
Reduced prices on equipment such as digital synthesizers and drum machines in
the early 1980s were, according to Paul Théberge, caused in part by “marketing
decisions made by synthesizer manufacturers themselves but also because of
falling prices in microprocessor technology, improved manufacturing, and the
entry into the field of powerful new competitors.” [166]
Furthermore, digital technology’s bright, noise-free sound and reduced prices
made analogue drum machines and synthesizers perfectly functional and less
expensive on the secondhand market. In Chicago, pretty much any participant in
the club scene (DJs or clubgoers) could buy a Roland TR-808 drum machine and a
Roland TB-303 bassline synthesizer for quite reasonable prices and, inspired by
the success of others, begin to create music.
Ideally,
popular music cultures represent arenas of creativity that are open to anyone
with talent regardless of economy, contacts, musical training, cultural
position, and so on. But since the major record companies have always possessed
the economic means to produce and release records of good quality, they have
typically retained the power to select who could demonstrate their talent to
the public. This hegemony was finally challenged through developments in music
technology early in the 1980s, and a host of smaller independent record
companies then emerged. [167]
Another
sign of the presence of democratization processes within dance music culture
derives from DJ practices. Participants of the culture could actually inform
decisions concerning which tracks would be released or how they would sound
because DJs frequently brought unreleased material to their clubs to try it out.
The dancers’ response was then taken
into account in the continuous process of mixing and selecting tracks. [168]
In the electronic dance music scene, the possibilities and issues related to
the do-it-yourself approach and the democratization of music production have
remained relevant. New technical innovations (samplers, digital synthesizers
with various signal processing systems, and so on) and the transitions from
traditional analogue units to computer-based digital software –
accompanied by the reduced prices and increased capabilities of home computers
– have made music production accessible to numerous individuals.
Nevertheless, dance music cultures still construct hierarchical power relations
that result in undemocratic conditions as well, based more on positions in a
cultural field
than on access to music equipment. The new positions of power include DJs,
journalists, club owners, and owners of small independent record labels. [169]
The acid house sound
An
interesting outcome of the democratization process in music production is
described by the now legendary birth of the “acid house” sound from the Roland
TB-303 bassline synthesizer. [170]
This synthesizer, released in 1982, had an analogue signal-processing system, a
programmable sequencer (with no display), and a few knobs to control vital
parameters. [171]
It was thought that the TB-303 could replace a bass guitar player, possibly in
tandem with the matching drum machine TR-606 Drumatix, but it sounded nothing
like a conventional bass and was difficult to program as well. Still, for
Chicago house music producers, its artificial bass sound and programming
capabilities would prove useful; [172]
when DJ Pierre (Nathaniel Pierre Jones) started playing around with the machine
in 1985 at the opposite end of its intended low frequency range, he discovered
some truly strange sounds. The TB-303 was used in the production of the track
Acid Tracks , where the knobs on the
machine were constantly being turned. Described as the “squeaks and bleeps” of
the 303, [173]
these sounds started the massively popular acid house genre. Despite DJ
Pierre’s lack of under­standing of the synthesizer, he managed to use it to
produce unconventional (and ultimately desirable) music. [174]
Sounds that were considered artificial or “failed” in comparison to acoustic
instruments were definitely both real and successful in the production of dance
music in Chicago. [175]
Dance
music production in the 1990s
The
increasing availability of music technology that had begun in the 1980s sped up
in the 1990s. The broader distribution of home computers with music programs
offered easier access to music production, and external (and then internal) CD
burners made it possible to complete a product from start to finish on a single
computer. This convenience partly explains the huge amount of electronic dance
music produced in the 1990s and its spread around the globe. [176]
During
the 1990s the sound of electronic dance music was constantly changing. Improved
equipment gave producers ever better tools for shaping and controlling their
sound, as Martin Knakkergaard points out: “Today, it is possible to manipulate
almost every musical and acoustical phenomenon in ways which the past dared
hardly imagine. Music can be shaped, moulded and performed independently of the
limitations set by traditional acoustic instruments and we cross the borders
between the old and new technology without leaving any traces.” [177]
Various partakers of the electronic dance music scene (journalists, record
company executives, and so on) constantly sought out new genres and new sounds,
and many producers arose to satisfy this demand. [178]
While
the various Chicago house music productions started with quite similar types of
equipment and production techniques, this would change during the 1990s. The
machines that dominated the music early in the decade (for example the Akai
MPC-60 and the Roland TR-909) gave way to an increasing number of alternatives
for every part of the production process. A growing number of prefabricated
sound loops (mostly drums) made producing an entire track relatively
straightforward. One could either meticulously shape one’s sounds and carefully
placing them in the “correct” positions (often nudging entries back and forth),
or one could insert various loops, copy them a sufficient number of times, and
add a few other tracks with quantized patterns. Certain techniques also
developed in relation to specific dance genres, such as cutting up and stretching
out the audio elements in drum loops within the drum’n’bass genre. [179]
Usually such novel techniques would become standard options in different types
of equipment and thus available to almost anyone.
The
so-called workstation – a synthesizer with a sequencer, a digital
sampler, and an effect processor combined into a total production unit –
completed the development of electronic music equipment in the 1990s.
Simultaneously, computer-based DAW programs became more advanced due to ever
more powerful processors. While this has cumulatively resulted in a simpler
production process overall, it also gave rise to a host of new short­comings
or weaknesses in the equipment itself (for example, software bugs, faulty
operating systems, deficient processors) that could sometimes disrupt the
producer’s creative process. Early in the 1990s, producers often combined a
MIDI sequencer (external or computer-based) with a digital sampler, a
synthesizer, a drum machine, various effect processors, a mixer, and an
analogue or DAT tape recorder; by the end of the decade, most of these
functions had become software programs that could be connected using sequencer
programs. [180]
Equipment targeted at the growing dance music scene arrived in the late 1990s
as well. The first piece was the Roland MC-303 “groovebox” (1996), an external
sequencer unit equipped with sounds, filter knobs, and an arpeggiator. [181]
This was succeeded by improved models with more effects and possibilities (the
Roland MC-505, Korg Electribe, and Yamaha RM1x), and they served as complete
production units or stage instruments. The first loop-based sequencer program
that was especially suitable for dance music was Sonic Foundry’s Acid Pro,
launched in 1998, but the major digital audio workstations (Pro Tools, Cubase,
Logic, Digital Performer, Cakewalk/Sonar) soon incorporated similar functions
to satisfy the growing number of dance music producers.
The development of music technology during the 1980s and
1990s
The
changeover from analogue to digital technology in music equipment impacted the
creation of electronic dance music in various ways, in terms of both new
production methods and new sounds. Chris Kempster writes:
Just as the birth
of rock’n’roll was inextricably linked with the arrival of the electric guitar,
house music would have never happened without the emergence of affordable
electronic instruments. The synthesizer, drum machine and sequencer were the
tools with which house and techno musicians fashioned a new genre of music, and
the experimentation which these tools encouraged resulted in a fresh and new
type of sound experience. The use and abuse of this technology may have not
been how the manufacturers originally envisaged their instruments being used,
and not all house music producers were ‘musicians’ in a traditional sense, but
these factors meant that [there] were no rules as such – if it
sounded good , then that was enough. [182]
During
the 1980s digital technology was introduced to various types of existing
equipment that already had stature within music production. Synthesizers, drum
machines, sequencers, and even the MIDI system and digital sampler all had
analogue predecessors. But their positions were strengthened after the
introduction of digital components and they even brought their analogue counterparts
along for the ride. Especially within dance music, electronic instruments and
equipment thus moved from the periphery to the very centre of music production.
In
the 1990s most recording studios likewise went from analogue tape machines to
computers and digital hard-disc recording. MIDI sequencers had already
transitioned from external units to software-based computer programs in the
late 1980s, and during the early 1990s digital sound recording was integrated
as well, all thanks to the development of personal computers. [183]
High-quality digital audio recording required far more processing power and
computer storage capacity compared to the MIDI system. Later in the 1990s,
effect processing and automated real-time mixing functions could also be
gradually integrated into software programs as computer processing power
increased.
In
the following I will briefly outline the development of the instruments and
equipment most relevant to the transition from the analogue era of the 1970s to
the digital era of the 1990s, according to the priorities of this study. [184]
Synthesizers
Digital
components were gradually introduced in synthesizers at the end of the 1970s
and immediately addressed two profound deficiencies in their analogue counter­parts:
voltage-controlled oscillators were unstable in their tuning, and it was not
possible to store sound settings. The Prophet 5 from Sequential Circuits (1978) [185]
was one of the first analogue/digital hybrids with a micro­computer to
control tuning and store program settings. [186]
The
Yamaha DX-7 (released in 1983) was the first commercially successful
all-digital synthesizer. Kempster writes: “The DX7 offered a range of
incredibly life-like sounds that made analogue synths sound very
one-dimensional. While a Roland synth could make a vain attempt at imitating a
flute, the DX7 managed an almost perfect rendition of that instrument –
thanks to the sophistication of its Frequency Modulation synthesis system.” [187]
This FM signal-processing system was in fact rather difficult to program, and,
in contrast to analogue synthesizers, most of the DX7’s sound-controlling
devices were removed from the front panel and organized in sections that were
reached by pushing buttons or using a data slider. The small LCD display also
introduced a rather hidden and abstracted or theoretical way of creating sounds
in contrast to the more intuitive, physical options of the analogue
synthesizers. Though the introduction of digital synthesizers in many ways led
to a democratization of the music production process, their programming
requirements actually had the opposite effect at first. To keep prices low, the
controller knobs and sliders were kept to a minimum, making the systems even
more complicated to access and understand.
As
a consequence, the demand for ready-made sounds increased and a small cottage
industry for producing those sounds arose as well. [188]
Juan Atkins , one of the
originators of Detroit techno, complained in 1988, “Synthesizers used to be synthesizers
that a synthesist could play. Now manufacturers are going for presets and they
make it really hard to get beyond those presets to program your own sounds.” [189]
One
feature that was lost with the introduction of digital synthesizers was the ability
to change sounds substantially
while
playing. The “pitch bend,” “aftertouch,” “modulation wheel,”
or “joystick” of a digital synthesizer could usually be programmed to various
parameters, but compared to the numerous knobs and buttons on most analogue
synthesizers, its possibilities were quite limited. In addition to lingering
advantages in price, status or acceptability, and sound, [190]
then, this fact alone may explain why analogue synthesizers were often
preferred in dance music production even in the late 1980s and 1990s. [191]
Digital synthesizers with front-panel controllers that imitated analogue
synthesizers were introduced at the end of the 1990s; their sounds emulated
analogue systems as well. The Roland JP-8000 led the way in 1996. [192]
Repeating patterns with sounds that are constantly modulated characterize many
genres within electronic dance music, and knobs are therefore vital. Other
means of controlling sound also appeared during the 1990s, such as the ribbon
controller on the Korg Trinity (1995) and the D-beam on the Roland SP-808
(1998). [193]
Drum
machines
Drum
machines underwent much the same sort of development as digital synthesizers.
Microcomputers were primarily installed to replace voltage control, introducing
additional options for programming and saving drum patterns. [194]
The sound systems remained analogue until the early 1980s, when digitally
sampled sounds arrived to the general public with the Linn LM-1 (1980) and the
LinnDrum (1982). [195]
Roland’s drum machines from this time period, the TR-808 (1982) and the TR-606
(1983), [196]
were analogue. Though Roland intended these products primarily for use in the
production of demo tapes and other relatively trivial musical occasions, they
were scorned in relation to their contemporary counterparts whose sampled
acoustic drum sounds better resembled a real drummer. Like the TB-303
synthesizer, however, the Roland drum machines found a “real purpose in life” [197]
only after their production was discontinued: “This is when kids in Detroit and
Chicago, and soon afterwards Britain, picked up the 808 and liked its sound for
what it was – synthetic percussion that bore no resemblance to real
drums, but sounded great any­way. Everyone started to use the 808, and its
sound soon became common currency in house music.” [198]
In
the dance music scene, the drum machine’s resemblance to an authentic drummer
was not as relevant. The British musician and DJ (now in A&R at Sony BMG)
Mike Pickering
says it is “the greatest
drum machine of all times ’cause it didn’t pretend to be drums.” [199]
What mattered to clubgoers was whether the sounds worked on the dancefloor, and
the short, dry sounds of the Roland drum machines did. [200]
While
most instruments have a firm link between their sounds and what is being done
to them, the drum machine did not. As Théberge writes:
The drum machine,
on the other hand, bears no resemblance to traditional drums and drummer
practice. The instrument has no direct, physical sound-producing mechanism;
instead, it reproduces digital recordings of drum and/or synthesized sounds
that are stored in its memory. It can be played, or programmed, with a series
of buttons on its front panel, a keyboard, or a computer, and requires none of
the physical coordination and discipline of a drummer. Finally, most drum
machines not only contain drum sounds but also include preset rhythmic
patterns, programmed in a variety of musical styles, that can be freely
combined to create the rhythm track for a song. As a result, one’s sense of
musical style and language can be relatively more abstract in nature (e.g., as
with the often-cited concern for the number of beats-per-minute in the
production of dance music) and more mediated in origin. [201]
Most
dance music producers in the Chicago house scene were not experienced
musicians, [202]
so their approach to their technical equipment was not influenced by actual
technique or instrumental capacity. In the manual of the Roland TR-808, of
course, the tutorial drum patterns are basic rock patterns that a live drummer
would play, [203]
indicating that the user was expected to imitate what a drummer would do. Many
drum patterns programmed by the Chicago house producers, on the other hand,
were impossible to actually play; hi-hat parts would be too fragmented,
instruments played with the same hand on a conventional drum set would be
triggered simultaneously, several instruments would trigger independent
patterns that would be impossible to play simultaneously, and so on. What’s
more, the TR-808 added to the basic sounds of a drum set a variety of
percussion instruments (congas, claves, and maracas) that could further
participate in ways that were unlikely to ever occur live.
One
of the very first Chicago house tracks,
On and On
by Jesse Saunders (1984), has a section lasting over a minute with only
sounds from the TR-808 drum machine (3:03–4:22).
Figure 2.1: Notational representation of Jesse Saunders’s
On and On ,
3:10–3:19. [204]
In
this notated excerpt from the drum section both the hi-hat pattern and the
handclap pattern would be quite difficult to perform live. The former in
particular differs radically from how a drummer commonly uses this instrument
to produce a continuous drive. Furthermore, there are congas and handclaps in
addition to the standard drum sounds; these would require more musicians in a live
performance.
Such
characteristics appear to reinforce what Théberge writes about the abstracted
nature of the drum machine, at least relative to traditional drum practice, but
the processes of programming must also be seen in relation to the motion on the
dancefloor, where those patterns were ultimately tested and evaluated. Though
legendary drum machines like the Roland TR-808 and TR-909 were used extensively
in electronic dance music during the 1990s, they have since been mostly
replaced by external machines combining sequencing and digital sampling (like
the Akai MPC-series), at least within production.
MIDI:
musical instrument digital interface
MIDI
is a digital communication system. Compared to today’s standards, it is quite
simple and slow. [205]
It was introduced in 1983 in order to link synthesizers regardless of
manufacturer. Several companies had already developed their own systems of
communication among their own pieces of equipment, but these were only partly
compatible and were primarily limited to equipment produced by that specific
company. Though most producers of musical equipment were slow to utilize all of
the possibilities of MIDI, it was a great improvement for users. As Théberge
observes, MIDI “contributed to an increased compatibility between instruments
by different manufacturers, thus stabilizing the marketplace and strengthening
consumer confidences.” [206]
MIDI made it possible to connect two synthesizers and work with sound from both
simultaneously, but it had other abilities as well, and its real revolution
regarding music production involved the use of MIDI sequencers. The simplicity
of MIDI made the system straightforward (and inexpensive) to install into
different types of equipment, and it has proven to be extremely resilient
despite the rapid development of more advanced digital technology.
Sequencers
Sequencers
arrived in the early 1970s, [207]
but
with digital technology and the standardization of MIDI came the possibility of
composing entire tracks with complete arrangements using sounds from a variety
of synthesizers and drum machines. The very first external MIDI sequencers,
such as the Roland MSQ 700 from 1984, had definite storage deficiencies, [208]
but these problems were solved on later models through the use of disk drives
to extend the internal memory. [209]
None of these early external sequencers was equipped with more than a rather
small display, however, and complex programming was not supported as such.
As
with drum machines, early sequencers were strictly organized according to fixed
note values. Real-time recording made it possible to ignore this grid, but
editing functions were then rendered useless. Both quantization and the process
of step-write recording allowed for the transmittal of MIDI messages at exact
positions within the grid of note values, with a precision that simply could
not be replicated “live.” Especially through the combined use of sequencers and
digital samplers, any sound could be applied without reservations around how it
might be produced on an acoustic instrument.
The
Akai MPC-60, released in 1988, was a combined sequencer and digital sampler
that became tremendously popular for hip-hop productions but also within the
different genres of electronic dance music. It was succeeded by various models
in the 1990s, including the MPC-3000 (1994) and MPC-2000 (1997). The MPC line
managed to compete with computer-based sequencers, which became the standard
during the late 1980s and 1990s. [210]
Nevertheless,
computer-based sequencers also had a major impact on music production practices
in the 1990s. Musicians and producers who had been using external sequencer
units slowly began to turn to the newer units for their improved functionality.
In addition, the computers attracted new users who were abandoning their
traditional analogue studio practices or notation-based composing/arranging
processes. [211]
A third group used computer-based sequencers as their initial tool for music
production. These users’ interest in music was frequently accompanied by a
general interest in computers, at least in the earliest period, when computers
were less common and programs less user-friendly. The major advantage with
computer-based technology was the ability to view the recorded MIDI information
(and eventually audio recordings, effect processing, and mixing) in different
kinds of windows of various types, facilitating editing immensely. Early
computer-based sequencers varied in how they displayed this information, but a
few common features gradually developed.
At
the end of the 1980s the most widely used computers in music production were
either Apple Macintosh or Atari. After Microsoft released Windows 3.0 in 1990,
the PC began to become more popular as well, gradually capturing Atari users
after Atari production ended in 1993. [212]
Digidesign’s Pro Tools was the standard digital audio workstation (DAW) for
professional studios during the 1990s, while Steinberg’s Cubase, Emagic’s
Logic, MOTU’s Digital Performer, and Cakewalk (Sonar) have competed for the
amateurs and semi-professional users.
Digital samplers
Among
all of the new technological instruments introduced in the 1980s, the digital
sampler has proven to be the most controversial. While the act of recording an
excerpt from an earlier production and including it in a new one was not new, [213]
digital samplers made this practice widespread, especially in certain music
cultures (predominantly hip-hop but also electronic dance music, to a certain
extent). [214]
Early
digital samplers such as the Fairlight CMI and the Synclavier (both appeared in
1979) were incredibly expensive and therefore applied mostly to high-end
studios and pricey productions. [215]
The
E-mu Emulator I (1982) and II (1984) were also expensive and furthermore became
outdated by newer technology (better bit rates and storage capacity) in the
second half of the 1980s. Comparably inexpensive digital samplers like the
Ensoniq Mirage (1984) and E-mu Emax (1986) eventually made this technology
almost as accessible as synthesizers, sequencers, and drum machines. By the
second half of the decade, rack-mount models like the Akai S-900 (1986) had
become standard equipment in professional recording studios and were also
common in smaller home-based studios.
Though
synthesizers could to some extent
imitate
the sounds of acoustic instruments, the
revolutionary impact of the digital sampler resided in its ability to directly
reproduce them. The creative re-use of old recordings took place alongside an
explosion in prefabricated sampled instruments, so MIDI sequencer productions
could now inexpensively include almost any acoustic instrument.
But
how “true” was the sound when acoustic instruments were being played from a
keyboard or programmed on a MIDI-sequencer? While this issue was central to
popular music discourse in general, it did not register with the producers of
dance music in Chicago. The most important issue was simply that the music
sounded good and worked on the dancefloor. Most of the Chicago house music
producers had started with drum machines, and they probably took that aesthetic
with them when programming the MIDI sequencers that triggered digital samplers.
This tendency is especially obvious in tracks where vocals from a digital
sampler are triggered by a MIDI sequencer. [216]
Gilbert
and Pearson describe the characteristics of house music as follows: “Its
sampled snippets of sung or spoken vocal do not add up to coherent verses,
rather instead becoming part of the rhythmic syntax of the track itself. Its
ability – by means of the sampler and the sequencer – to turn
any
sound
into a rhythmic element remains the basic template for most contemporary dance
music.” [217]
Though the more extreme stuttering effects of digitally sampled vocals were
soon abandoned, expectations about how certain instruments
should
be heard were increasingly being
violated, particularly rhythmically. This unconventional approach to any and
all musical sounds was essential to the development of electronic dance music.
Music technology and issues of authenticity
How
do these changes in production techniques and the development of music
technology involve the producers of dance music? How do they relate to this
particular musical material?
Experience
in and expertise with music technology, as well as a familiarity with older
pieces of equipment and their “stories,” are an important part of an “insider
knowledge” among the producers of dance music. As mentioned previously,
authenticity may well have a different connotation for dance music cultures
than for popular music culture in general. [218]
This is true of music technology as well, especially regarding the
appropriateness of particular musical equipment and production techniques.
Gilbert and Pearson write: “It is important to recognize that musicians
delineate the equipment they use in relation to a complex matrix of values,
characteristics and associations.” [219]
This matrix may have many of the same implications and associations that it
does in other music cultures, but the restrictions
and limitations differ.
The
relationship of digital to analogue is central here, as
Tellef Kvifte
explains: “The very
concept ‘digital’ has for many people strong connotations in the direction of
‘machine,’ ‘automatic,’ ‘not human,’ etc., while ‘analogue’ has a much more
human and authentic feel.” [220]
Digital technology has proven to be efficient and reliable, and it introduces
possibilities beyond those of analogue equipment. Still, analogue synthesizers,
drum machines, mixers, tape recorders, effect processors, and vinyl twelve-inch
records remain favoured by many. The extent to which this relates exclusively
to actual differences in the two types of technology, as opposed to the
cultural connotations of “analogue,” is hard to say. [221]
Several
distinctions may apply with regard to the attractiveness of analogue. The ease
of digital technology may make it appear less valuable or “real” than the (more
laborious) analogue alternatives. Recording a drummer or creating unique drum
sounds on an analogue synthesizer is harder but also more satisfying, perhaps,
than using prefabricated digital drum loops or pre-programmed sounds. In an
interview with the Chemical Brothers in
Keyboard
magazine, Tom Rowlands and Ed Simons
(favourably) contrast their work using an ARP 2600 (an analogue synthesizer
from the early 1970s) to that of their colleagues in other groups who buy brand
new (digital) synthesizers. [222]
Rowlands and Simons convey reluctance about anything mass-produced and
mass-consumed. Older equipment can also acquire status simply through its age, [223]
especially in relation to influential genres or legendary originators of music
in the same tradition. [224]
But
how are these issues communicated to the audience? When drum machines first
arrived, it was rather easy to identify their sound, but this was not the case
for long, particularly when increasingly more advanced digital technology
became involved. [225]
An electronic dance music track from the 1990s usually reveals little
information about its production techniques, aside from the obvious use of
electronic instruments and perhaps various effects (delays, filters, vocoder,
extreme auto-tuner, and so on). Most fans and listeners therefore hardly notice
such things. In contrast, producers, DJs, musicians, readers of specific music
magazines, and so on may be quite engaged by such matters, and it can be very
important for producers/DJs to account for their production techniques in
interviews and reveal the equipment used in their stage performances.
An
analogue synthesizer from the 1970s on stage certainly has different
connotations from a digital workstation from the late 1990s or a laptop
computer with its various programs. The new machines have numerous advantages
regarding both production and performance, but they may carry negative
associations as well in relation to authenticity. However, the importance of
these associations may decrease when the music is good and the dancefloor is
packed. The restrictions or limitations concerning what is appropriate or
authentic change continuously, and, in a dance music culture, often in advance
of similar changes in popular music culture in general.
Summary
Major
changes in the production of dance music from the 1970s to the 1990s involved
(1) the transition from group-based performances to more individual
programming; (2) a shift from analogue technology and the use of acoustic and
electric instruments to digital technology and its sequencers and electronic
instruments; (3) the expanded role of the DJ within the production process; and
(4) an increased availability of music technology, which opened up the
production process for new groups of contributors. But these issues are all
closely connected. Disco music from the 1970s was comprised of arrangements and
instrumentation that resulted from sessions in professional studios with
experienced musicians, while the Chicago house music scene welcomed DJs (and
other participants) to take part in the production process through the new and
inexpensive electronic equipment. Innovations like the dance remix and the
twelve-inch had already created a need for DJs in the recording studio in the
1970s, but with the development of electronic dance music their contributions
to the production process rapidly expanded, and music was freed from the grip
of record companies or expensive recording studios.
The
most significant development in music technology in this period was the
changeover from analogue to digital technology. New digital equipment offered
improved recording techniques that eased the music production process in many
ways. Synthesizers, drum machines, sequencers, and later recording units and
effect processors have all transitioned to the digital era. Complemented by the
digital sampler and the MIDI system, they have become the core instruments of
the dance music producer. But many still use old analogue equipment and
twelve-inch vinyl as well, often in combination with newer digital equipment.
As
we have seen, the notion of authenticity in dance music culture relates to,
among other things, one’s use of technology. The relationship between analogue
and digital is central to this struggle, and the status a producer acquires
through the throwback use of legendary equipment should not be underestimated.
An awareness of the cache of particular pieces of equipment or production
techniques is part of the “insider knowledge” that points to credibility within
the culture.
These
processes have musical consequences as well, but superseding everything is the
simple fact that the music must work on the dancefloor. And the DJ that wants
to make a crowd dance has to make them start moving to the music. How might the
producer create a track that accomplishes this? How is movement accommodated
over the course of the production? What is his or her point of departure?
These
questions introduce part II of this study, where I will present the basic beat
of the dance music track and consider its connection to movement in more
detail.
Continue
to part II
Return
to Index
Return to top
[1]
An anthropological
perspective of studying music in its cultural context, traditionally adopted by
ethnomusicologists studying non-Western music, has now entered most fields of
musicology, according to
Robert
Walser : “The split between musicology and ethnomusicology is no longer
useful because its constitutive dichotomies – self/other,
Western/non-Western, art/function, history/ethnography, and text/practice
– are no longer defensible” (Walser 2003:24).
Gary Tomlinson
(2003:31ff) discusses the demarcation of anthropology and history and how these
perspectives, long considered opposing, are in fact equally essential to
musicological analyses.
[2]
Middleton
1990 :110 (emphasis in the original).
[3]
Hawkins 2003:18.
[4]
Toynbee
2000 :140.
[5]
For the disco era, see
Brewster & Broughton 1999/2006,
Lawrence
2003 ,
Fikentscher 2000 ,
and Shapiro 2005; for the club culture of electronic dance music, see
Thornton 1995 , Kempster 1996,
Rietveld 1998, Reynolds 1999, Gilbert & Pearson 1999,
Bidder
2001 , and again Brewster & Broughton 1999/2006.
[6]
See
Lawrence
2003 :306ff. In discussing the impact of the film, Lawrence points out the
economic and racist undertones of its choices of protagonists and music: “The
film deleted any trace of the downtown night network: out went Manhattan’s
ethnic gays, black funk, drugs, and freeform dancing, and in came suburban
straights, shrill white pop, alcohol, and the Hustle” (ibid.:307).
[7]
Brewster
and Broughton
rather graphically describe the lack of interest in the origins of disco
culture by latecomers to the industry after 1977: “Plenty of marketing men
would figure it out just enough to rip out its heart and suck out every last
drop of blood” ( Brewster
& Broughton 2006 :177). Though this is certainly overwrought, scholars
and critics do agree that the music industry itself was at least partly responsible
for the music’s rapid decline in popularity.
[8]
Hughes 1994:147.
[9]
Prior to 1995, very few
books on disco had been released: “Jazz, rock ‘n’ roll, reggae and now rap all
have not only devoted listeners but intellectual defenders; conspicuously
missing from this canon, however, is disco” (Hughes 1994:147). For an overview
of the literature until 1999, both academic and non-academic, see
Fikentscher 2000 :19ff.
[10]
See, for example, Peter
Shapiro’s derogatory description of roller disco (Shapiro 2002:213ff).
[11]
Middleton 2006:200.
[12]
Keightley 2001:131.
[13]
Loc. cit.
[14]
Moore 2002.
[15]
Lawrence 2003 :434.
[16]
Brewster
& Broughton 2006 :136.
[17]
An etymological
description of the word “disco” may be found in
Fikentscher 2000 :23 or Lawrence
2003
:14.
[18]
Fikentscher
2000 :22.
[19]
Loc. cit.
[20]
Brewster
& Broughton 2006 :200.
[21]
Schloss
2004 :27.
[22]
Brewster
& Broughton 2006 :150.
[23]
Ibid.:201.
[24]
Lawrence
2003 :116.
[25]
When the Chemical Brothers played at the Roskilde Festival
in 1999, they were placed at the “Orange Scene,” which has a capacity for
60.000 people. The crowd was predominantly faced towards the stage trying to
distinguish the visually introvert actions of the two men. For a few “insiders”
the message concerning the music and the dancing was probably crystal clear,
but for the majority of the crowd this message was probably misconstrued, and
the “concert” was rather unfavourably received as a consequence.
[26]
“Lighting . . . has become an elaborate accompaniment to
the music, emphasizing its rhythms, illustrating its chords. . . .
Computer-generated fractals and other abstract designs of coloured light can
act as visual equivalents of the instrumental sounds of house and techno music,
while film, loops, slide projectors and music videos punctuate the space with
figurative entertainment” ( Thornton
1995 :57).
[27]
Langlois 1992:234.
[28]
Brewster
& Broughton 2006 :138.
[29]
Ibid.:139.
[30]
Ibid.:107; see also Shapiro 2005:37–44.
[31]
Schloss 2004:79–80.
[32]
Lawrence recalls how the legendary DJ Larry Levan would
play a certain unknown track repeatedly until the crowd learned to like it as
he did: “Larry would rarely give in. Not only would he leave the record on
until the end. He would also start to play it week in, week out, until finally
everyone wanted to dance to it” ( Lawrence
2003 :356).
[33]
Broughton & Brewster 2002:12.
[34]
Early Chicago house producers frequently copied basslines
from various disco tracks; see chapter 6, page
180 .
[35]
Brewster
& Broughton 2006 :153.
[36]
Lawrence
2003 :357. See also
Bidder
2001 :10.
[37]
“The Loft was situated in a building that had been set
aside for industrial use in which Mancuso organized ostensibly commercial parties
without a certificate of occupancy, a cabaret license, or officially sanctioned
fire exits. Going to the Loft and keeping quiet about it wasn’t a pose. It was
a pragmatic practice” ( Lawrence
2003 :53).
[38]
Lawrence
2003 :22.
[39]
Fikentscher
2000 :10.
[40]
See quotation above;
Lawrence
2003 :22.
[41]
Lawrence
2003 :433.
[42]
Ibid.:434.
[43]
Fikentscher
2000 :5.
[44]
Thornton
1995 :117.
[45]
Thornton
explores authenticity in club cultures at length: “What
authenticates contemporary dance cultures is the buzz or energy which results
from the interaction of records, DJ and crowd. ‘Liveness’ is displaced from the
stage to the dancefloor, from the worship of the performer to a veneration of
‘atmosphere’ or ‘vibe.’ The DJ and dancers share the spotlight as de facto
performers; the crowd becomes a self-conscious cultural phenomenon – one
which generates moods immune to reproduction, for which you have to be there” ( Thornton
1995 :29–30;
emphasis in the original). Thornton also distinguishes between two kinds of
authenticity: one relates primarily to DJs, involves “issues of originality and
aura” (1995:30), and “draws upon definitions of culture as art,” and the other,
which is more widespread and concerns “being natural to the community or
organic to subculture” – that is, involving culture as lifestyle. She
frames the DJ’s role as uniting these two authenticities in the act of
collecting and playing records and leading the crowd without demanding its
attention. The crowd, then, takes on the role of the live performer in giving
life to the objects that are presented by the DJ. Thornton (1995:66ff) also
discusses four characteristics through which certain records and music genres
are perceived as authentic; their assimilation and legitimization by a subculture;
the distance between production and consumption; the environment of production;
and the ideological vagaries of genres.
[46]
See Fornäs 1994 for
a comparison of authenticity in house/techno and other popular music genres.
[47]
She discusses primarily Hebdige 1979 and Mungham 1976 (see
Thornton
1995 :93ff). See also
Bennett 1999 for relevant discussions on subculture theory linked to the dance
music scene of the 1990s.
[48]
Thornton 1995:116ff.
[49]
On the
St.
Germain
(Ludovic Navarre)
track
Wha t ’s New?
there is a monologue listing DJs whom he believes play
“real house music”: “This is what we call easy-listening
underground
house music, with much respect to Smack Production and
music stations, our favourite
underground
house label” (2:15–2:35). This method of
positioning oneself within a history of other legitimate or authentic figures
is relatively common; see also
Daft
Punk ’s
Teachers
(1996).
[50]
Steve Dahl quoted in
Brewster
& Broughton 2006 :290.
[51]
In an
NBC-TV
interview with Steve Dahl
on
the twenty-fifth anniversary of the event, the focus was more on the
disturbance to the baseball game rather than the indignity foisted upon the music.
Many people who were there have left personal accounts on a
webpage
dedicated to the event.
[52]
Brewster
& Broughton 2006 :291.
[53] According to
Shapiro, not only the major labels were to be blamed.
The independent label Casablanca’s executive Neil Bogart
created hype with false sales to promote new artists: “Puffing up no-talent
acts with a load of hot air became the norm for the record industry during the
disco boom” (Shapiro 2005:223). In her study of house music culture, Hillegonda
Rietveld asserts that the market at the end of the 1970s was in fact flooded
with “second-rate” music – that is, “music that was not made with the
same sensibilities and without a finer understanding of the aesthetic forms
from which disco had developed, such as funk, soul and gospel” (Rietveld
1998:115). See
Brewster
& Broughton 2006 :201,
Fikentscher
2000 :29, and Shapiro
2005:222 for similar accounts.
[54]
Brewster
& Broughton 2006 :201.
[55]
Shapiro describes examples of disco-related TV
advertisements and children’s TV programs, and even a religious dancefloor
passion play; see Shapiro 2005:224ff.
[56]
See Shapiro 2005:230.
[57]
MTV avoided music videos by African American artists
between its launch in 1981 and the arrival of Michael Jackson’s
Thriller
videos. They claimed to be formatted as “rock’n’roll” at
a time when few African American artists were seen as such. MTV was accused of
racism by several African American artists and ultimately changed course when
Jackson’s music videos came to them in early 1983. See Rose 1994:8 and Kaplan
1987:15.
[58]
The name refers to
Greenwich
Village
in New York City,
which at the time was famous for having a substantial gay population.
[59]
See Smucker 1980:566.
[60]
Brewster
and Broughton describe how Steve Dahl gave away one
hundred tickets to a Village People concert, provided the recipients would
throw marshmallows bearing the words “Disco Sucks” onto the stage;
Brewster
& Broughton 2006 :290.
[61]
Fikentscher
2000 :109.
[62]
Buckland
2002 :68.
[63]
DJ Nicky Siano had also influenced the duo. Siano was
famous for setting up the nightclub called the Gallery, and for his beat-mixing
and creative use of equalizers. See
Brewster
& Broughton 2006 :160–164.
[64]
Fikentscher
2000 :70.
[65]
Reynolds 1999:25. For more descriptions of the two clubs,
see
Brewster
& Broughton 2006 :293ff, Reynolds
1999:35, and
Bidder
2001 :3ff on Paradise
Garage, and
Brewster
& Broughton 2006 :312ff and
Bidder
2001 :16ff on the
Warehouse.
[66]
The Detroit musician
Juan
Atkins , on the other hand,
claims that a “house” record was slang for an obscure import; see Trask 1988a
(in Kempster 1996:46) .
[67]
Bidder
2001 :23.
[68]
The production of Chicago house music will be further
outlined in chapter 2.
[69]
After the music’s initial success, these record companies
began to use more professional studios in Chicago, according to Chris Kempster,
who disputes what he calls “Chicago’s extensive mythology” (Kempster 1996:16)
– that is, the impression that all Chicago house productions were put
together without any traditional studio equipment.
[70]
Bidder
2001 :150.
[71]
Pickering quoted in
Bidder
2001 :54.
[72]
Bidder
2001 :89.
[73]
See Norris 2007, chapter 4.
[74]
See, for
example, Connell & Gibson (2003) and Biddle & Knights (2006).
[75]
Storey 2003 :112.
[76]
Nederveen
Pieterse 2004:82.
[77]
Storey 2003 :119.
[78]
Ibid.:117.
[79]
Hillegonda
Rietveld describes how she, through her fieldwork in relation to Chicago house
music, encountered that her own participation in a British band called
Quando Quango
at the
beginnings of the 1980s had inspired several contributors in Chicago (Rietveld
1998:261-264).
[80]
Rietveld 1998:40.
[81]
Gradually
this “package” would even return to the United States.
[82]
Fikentscher
2000 :78.
Fikentscher
points out that house music later gained popularity in
the United States as “electronica” ( Fikentscher
2000 :113).
[83]
Thornton
1995 :44.
[84]
Brewster
and Broughton suggest that even the slogan “disco sucks”
is homophobic, implying gay oral sex; see
Brewster
& Broughton 2006 :290.
[85]
Rietveld’s description of the Warehouse as “away from any
mainstream leisure area of Chicago,” “specifically aimed at young homosexuals,”
and “mostly from an African-American and Latino background” (1998:18) describes
this context. The AIDS epidemic also made gay communities more introverted
during the 1980s.
[86]
Belleville is a small, rural town outside Detroit.
[87]
Stuart Cosgrove, who also went to Detroit, wrote a similar
article in
The Face
entitled “Seventh City Techno.”
[88]
Toffler 1980:169. In Toffler’s book the “Third Wave”
follows the “Second Wave” (the age of industry and mass production) with a
society based on new technology and individualization (that is, information
processing and knowledge production).
[89]
An interview of
Kevin
Saunderson
by Simon Trask in
Music
Technology
also starts out
with a rather gloomy portrayal of Detroit. See Trask 1988 (in Kempster
1996:57).
[90]
May quoted in McCready 1988.
[91]
Loc. cit.
[92]
See Sicko 1999:76, Reynolds 1999:14ff, Trask 1988 (in
Kempster 1996:41), and Albiez 2005:131.
[93]
Sicko 1999:69.
[94]
Atkins quoted in Trask 1988 (in Kempster 1996:45).
[95]
Sicko 1999:28.
[96]
Mills quoted in Kempster 1996:17.
[97]
Loc. cit.
[98]
Garratt 1986.
[99]
Jefferson quoted in Garratt 1986.
[100]
Kempster 1996:17.
[101]
Parts of their 1999 chapter on techno were rewritten for
their 2006 revised edition, and some important sections concerning these issues
were removed; see Brewster & Broughton 1999, chapter 12, and 2006, chapter
13.
[102]
Thornton
1995 :75.
[103]
Rubin 2000:127.
[104]
For example, see
Rhythm
Is Rhythm / Derrick
May ’s
Strings
of Life
(1986) or
Inner
City / Kevin
Saunderson ’s
Big
Fun
and
Good
Life
(both 1988).
[105]
For example, see
Model
500 / Juan
Atkins ’s
Night
Drive
(1985) and
Off
to Battle
(1987).
[106]
Reynolds 1999:85.
[107]
Ibid.:84.
[108]
See, for example, Collin 1997b and Malbon 1999.
[109]
Reynolds suggests a strong connection between drugs and
music production that features a repertoire of effects, textures, and riffs
(Reynolds 1999:85). The effect processing and the specific sounds that he
describes, however, have been transmitted to other genres within electronic
dance music and elsewhere in popular music since the late 1980s even where
there are no drug associations. While the Ecstasy experience probably nourished
this unfamiliar sound environment in the late 1980s, it is problematic to view
that music solely in its light.
[110]
Saunders 2007:10.
[111]
Most of the tracks on this compilation would not be
regarded as “acid house,” however, relative to how this genre came to be
defined.
[112]
The Roland TB-303 was a small bassline synthesizer used to
produce the characteristic sounds of acid house.
A
further account of the instrument follows in chapter 2.
[113]
The gatherings in the
Haight-Ashbury District of San Francisco in 1967 comprise the first “Summer of
Love.” Regarding the affectionate side of Ecstasy, Reynolds writes about
football hooligans “so loved-up on E they spent the night hugging each other
rather than fighting” (Reynolds 1999:64).
[114]
Sutcliffe 1989.
[115]
This curiosity
unfortunately also arose among those in the drug trade itself, and the more
law-abiding party organizers were eventually scared away by the combination of
increased police interest and vulnerability to criminals.
[116]
Hesmondhalgh 1998:237.
[117]
Approximately 25,000
people, for example, attended the Sunrise/Back to the Future Dance Music
Festival on August 12, 1989.
[118]
The Entertainments
(Increased Penalties) Act of 1990 raised the maximum fines for unlicensed
parties to £20,000 plus six months’ imprisonment. See
Bidder
2001 :142 and Huq 2006:100.
[119]
Reynolds 1999:78.
[120]
See Reynolds 1999:113.
[121]
Ishkur’s Guide to Electronic Music
is a huge interactive website of genre
maps with introductions and excerpts to most of the essential genres. Wikipedia
also offers an extensive
introduction to electronic music genres , with 19 main genres and 195 subgenres.
[122]
Two standard approaches
to the classification of genres appear in these examples; an evolutionary
approach that points to influences and roots, and an approach of similarity
that privileges like qualities over developmental links. “House” points to the
historic Warehouse club and the original “house music” in Chicago, while words
like “dark,” “deep,” “dream,” or “tribal” indicate some sort of association or
resemblance among certain musical elements. Other names might be geographical
(Chicago house, French house, Detroit techno, Goa trance, U.K. garage)
functional (trance, rave, dance, jump up), technology-oriented (electronica,
techno), instruments-oriented (drum’n’bass), or linked to other contemporary
genres (hip house, tech house, Latin house).
[123]
Toynbee 2000:106. He
draws upon the views and definitions of Neale (1980), Hebdige (1979) and Fabbri
(1981).
[124]
Loc. cit.
[125] Toynbee 2000:136.
[126]
Loc. cit.
[127]
Sarah Thornton’s
“subcultural capital” – derived from Pierre Bourdieu’s notion of
“cultural capital” – describes the knowledge necessary for status within
a specific subculture. Knowledge, in this context, includes not only what you
know but also whom you know, how you dress, how you act, and so on. Thornton
identifies “objectified sub­cultural capital” within club cultures as
“fashionable haircuts and well-assembled record collections” ( Thornton 1995 :11) and
“embodied subcultural capital” as “being ‘in the know,’ using (but not
over-using) current slang and looking as if you were born to perform the latest
dance style”
(11-12). The significance of being an “insider,” or at
least adequately on the inside as opposed to those on the outside, has been
part of club culture since the required Loft memberships of the 1970s.
[128]
The most incongruous
name of a genre might be “intelligent dance music,” specifying music
not
intended
for the dancefloor.
[129]
The act even defined
rave music as “music wholly or predominantly characterised by the emission of a
succession of repetitive beats” (Huq 2006:101).
[130]
Fatboy Slim (Norman
Cook) marvelled at the transition from being “just the bloke who stood in the
corner and put records on” ( Brewster
& Broughton 2006 :523) to being a star who was offered “figures so high
that he found it difficult to refuse” (ibid.:524).
[131]
Ibid.:540.
[132]
Loc. cit.
[133]
For example, the French
dance act Justice (producers/DJs Gaspard Augé and Xavier de Rosnay) had several
international club hits in 2007.
[134]
See Lynskey 1999 for an
account of the impact of the album. For a brief biographic overview, see Bush
2001:40–41; see also Bidder 1999:26–29.
[135]
Brixton has become
somewhat trendier but still suffers from unemployment, high crime, poor
housing, and so on. It is notorious for the Brixton riot of 1981; see
description in Hughes 1999:32.
[136]
See Wain 1996/97:8 and
Mellor 1997/98:52 for positive reviews of the club nights of Ratcliffe and
Buxton.
[137]
Collin 1997:109. For a
brief biographic overview, see Cooper 2001:114–115 and Bidder
1999:69–72.
[138]
See Rayner 2001.
[139]
Collin 1997a:108.
[140]
The film in question is
titled
Interstella
5555: The 5tory of the 5ecret 5tar 5ystem .
[141]
See Danielsen 2006,
chapter 2 for a discussion of Otherness in white European culture.
[142]
For example, Me’Shell
NdegéOcello, Dizzie Rascal, and Siouxsie Sioux (of Siouxsie and the Banshees)
contributed to their
Kish Kash
album, released in 2003.
[143]
The subversive artistic
exploitation of socially negative objects recalls the Dadaists or Surrealists
– for example, Marcel Duchamp’s urinal installation.
[144]
For a discussion of
differences in ideals of music production, see the comparison of pop and rock
music production in
Warner
2003 , chapter 1.
[145]
Gilbert & Pearson
1999:113.
[146]
Jackson 2004:109 (John
A. Jackson).
[147]
Loc. cit.; Jackson is
quoting trombonist Fred Joiner.
[148]
See
Lawrence 2003 :253–254.
[149]
Nelson George
juxtaposes these two variants of disco productions: “At least the Philly disco
records sounded like they were made by humans. Soon, Eurodisco invaded America,
initially from Munich, and later from Italy and France. It was music with a
metronomelike beat – perfect for folks with no sense of rhythm –
almost inflectionless vocals, and metallic sexuality that matched the
high-tech, high-sex, and low passion atmosphere of the glamorous discos that
appeared in every major American city.” (George 1988:154). Also see discussions
about authenticity and music technology in Frith 1986, Théberge 1997, chapter
7, Knakkergaard 2000, and
Warner
2003 .
[150]
See discussion of
groove on page
153 .
[151]
This topic is discussed
further at the end of this chapter; see page
82 .
[152]
Remixing originated in
Jamaica in the 1960s (see
Brewster
& Broughton 2006 :116ff).
[153]
See
Lawrence 2003 :71.
[154]
An analysis of this
track’s bass drum sound is presented in chapter 8 (see page
189 ).
[155]
See Straw 2002:166ff
for a detailed description.
[156]
Ibid.:167.
[157]
According to
Brewster
and Broughton,
forerunners to this practice of “white labels” appear in the Northern Soul
scene, where DJs would cover up or alter record labels to prevent anyone from
finding out what dance music gems they had discovered ( Brewster
& Broughton 2006 :110). Hip-hop DJs also soaked off labels to protect
the identity of favourite “breaks.”
[158]
See discussion on page
39 .
[159]
Straw describes how
record companies tried to use the twelve-inch as a teaser to promote an
upcoming album, though with limited success (Straw 2002:171).
[160]
Ibid.:168.
[161]
See also
Brewster
& Broughton 2006 :200.
[162]
For the twenty-one
tracks on
Give
Your Body Up: Club Classics & House Foundations
that were originally
twelve-inch releases (with release dates ranging from 1975 to 1984), the
average duration is 7:05.
[163]
See
Brewster
& Broughton 2006 :328.
[164]
Quoted in
Bidder
2001 :30.
[165]
A local pressing plant
for vinyl in Chicago also played a part by offering accessible vinyl production
(ibid.:31).
[166]
Théberge 1997:73.
Théberge also points out two less obvious but equally influential factors in
the spread of digital musical instruments: a small cottage industry supplying
sound programs for synthesizers and samplers that appeared during the
mid-1980s, and the design and development of MIDI (ibid.:74ff).
[167]
The DIY
(do-it-yourself) approach of English punk a few years before arose from a
similar flouting of the established authority of record companies (see Toynbee
2000:93).
[168]
See Rietveld 1998:133ff
and Hesmondhalgh 1998:236f for further discussions of democratization and
decentralization in the British dance music industry of the late 1980s and
1990s.
[169]
In newer musical
cultures (such as the Chicago house scene) these positions of authority seem
less fixed than they are in traditional cultures.
[170]
See Kempster 1996:157,
Reynolds 1999:32ff, Gilbert & Pearson 1999:124–125, and
Brewster
& Broughton 2006 :335 for accounts of the Chicago producer’s
experimental use of the Roland TB-303.
[171]
See Brown 1996 (in
Kempster 1996:166ff) for more details on the Roland TB-303.
[172]
When dealers realized
that the TB-303 had failed in its original purpose, they reduced its price
considerably as well, improving its accessibility; Taylor 2001:163.
[173]
See
Brewster
& Broughton 2006 :335 and Reynolds 1999:32.
[174]
See Rose 1994:74ff for
similar accounts of “abuse” of the Roland TR-808 drum machine in hip-hop
cultures.
[175]
Wiebe Bijker,
discussing another technological artifact, the safety bicycle, writes, “the
‘working’ or ‘nonworking’ of an artifact are socially constructed assessments,
rather than intrinsic properties of the artifact.” (Bijker 1995:75). This is
certainly true of the TB-303 and its counterparts in the early 1980s.
[176]
This democratization
process has continued into the new millennium, with improved music software,
even more powerful home computers, and the distribution of music via the
internet (for example, on myspace.com).
[177]
Knakkergaard 2000
(article in Popular Music Online, no page number).
[178]
See discussion in
chapter 1, page
58 .
[179]
See Brown & Griese
2000:107ff for more on drum’n’bass production techniques.
[180]
Propellerhead
Software’s computer program Reason, launched in 2000, emulates a producer’s
“rack” with sequencers, synthesizers, samplers, a drum machine, a mixer, and
various effect processors.
[181]
An arpeggiator is a
device that generates series of tones when one presses a key on the keyboard.
These may be structured according to various patterns of pitches, rhythm, and
accent, and can be made to fit a certain tempo.
[182]
Kempster 1996:155.
[183]
When the company Opcode
expanded their Vision sequencer into audio recording (calling it Studio Vision)
in 1990, they relied on an external sound recording unit from Digidesign. In
1993, a few Macintosh models were released with an integrated sixteen-bit sound
system, which soon became standard, and sequencers could then run audio
recording software without any external sound card.
[184]
These priorities relate
first and foremost to the analyses of sound in chapter 8 and the focus on
production aspects in my descriptions of sound. The possibility of producing a
track with many rhythmic patterns working together is also relevant in relation
to the analyses of rhythm in chapter 6.
[185]
A great deal of the
information on release dates and various technical details concerning the
equipment in question is taken from the webpages of Vintage Synth Explorer (see
webpage 2.1) and Synthmuseum.com (see webpage 2.2).
[186]
The Prophet 5 was also
one of the first successful
polyphonic
synthesizers.
[187]
Kempster 1996:157.
[188]
Théberge points out
that synthesizer users were initially regarded (by the industry) as creators or
programmers of sounds, but during the 1980s they came to be seen instead as
consumers of ready-made sounds. (Théberge 1997:75). The popularity of
ready-made sounds introduces the issue of how technology influences the
creative process. Technological determinism refers to the belief that
“technology is assumed to transform its users directly” (Taylor 2001:26).
Opposing this view is the notion of voluntarism, which stresses our free agency
and individual will relative to technology. Timothy Taylor, however, dismisses
this dichotomy, seeing the use of technology “as caught up in a complex, fluid,
variable dynamic of each [voluntary and deterministic]” (ibid.:30). The fact
that users turned to preset sounds instead of attempting to program their own
sounds supports the deterministic view, but overall, digital synthesizers were
only one of several contemporary innovations, so the time saved by using pre-programmed
sounds may have been applied very creatively elsewhere.
[189]
Quoted in an interview
with Simon Trask; see Trask 1988a (also in Kempster 1996:45).
[190]
Digitally synthesized
sounds can have a brightness or clearness that can be problematic when mixed with
other sounds. Producer and sound engineer Kai Robøle in fact often processes
digitally created sounds through an analogue device (a compressor, amplifier,
or filter) to resolve the discrepancy; email to the author, received 1 Sept.
2008.
[191]
Issues related to
various associations with analogue equipment will be discussed towards the end
of the chapter.
[192]
The Yamaha CS1-X, also
from 1996, was an inexpensive synthesizer especially made for the electronic
dance music market, offering six knobs on the front panel that made at least
some of its most essential sound parameters accessible.
[193]
The ribbon controller
is a small rectangular area on the synthesizer that registers linear motions
from finger movements. The D-beam is a device with two infrared beams of light
that registers hand movements. The Roland SP-808 is not a synthesizer, but the
beam-controller did appear on later Roland synthesizers, such as the V-Synth
(2003).
[194]
See for example, the
Roland CR-78 from 1978.
[195]
Only around five
hundred models of the Linn LM-1 were produced.
[196]
The Roland TR-909,
released in 1984, introduced a few digital sampled sounds (cymbal and closed
and open hi-hat) and MIDI (the TR-808 and the TB-303 did not have MIDI). The
TR-909 and TR-808 are considered the most legendary Roland drum machines from
the early 1980s and have been used extensively in electronic dance music and
hip-hop.
[197]
Kempster 1996:159.
[198]
Loc. cit.; see also
Théberge 1997:196–198 for accounts of the TB-808 drum machine.
[199]
Interview with
Mike Pickering
in London, 17 Sept. 2007.
[200]
See page
189
for discussions and analyses of drum
machine sounds.
[201]
Théberge
1997:3–4.
[202]
The Chicago house
producer
Adonis
(Adonis Smith) was an exception as a former bass guitarist.
[203]
The manual may be
downloaded from the TR-808 resource site (see webpage 2.3). See page 16 in the
manual for an example of a tutorial drum pattern.
[204]
The instrument names have been written
with the abbreviations on the Roland TR-808 as capital letters.
[205]
MIDI uses serial ports
and transfers messages at a speed of 31,250 bps (bits per second). The standard
MIDI message byte consists of eight digits (bits). A task communicated through
MIDI will use two or more bytes, where one (the status byte) directs the
message to its proper task and MIDI channel (1–16), while the other(s)
(data byte[s]) number between 0 and 127 and point to certain entities (notes,
sound patches, and so on) or parameter settings (volume, panning, and so on).
[206]
Théberge 1997:89.
[207]
The EMS Synthi A from 1971 had an
integrated sequencer.
[208]
Playing in a synth band
myself in the mid-1980s, I coupled the Roland MSQ-700 in shows with a Roland
MSQ-100. The memory storage only held one song at a time, so I had to reload
one sequencer with data information from a cassette player while the other was
playing.
[209]
See, for example, the
Korg SQD-1 from 1986.
[210]
The Akai MPCs had more
reliable timing and offered useful settings for shuffled or swung quantizing.
The computer-based sequencers worked with processors that did many tasks
simultaneously, while the “clock” of the MPCs controlled only the sequencer.
[211]
For my master’s thesis
I interviewed twelve film music composers in Oslo in 1993 on the use of
computers and MIDI-based equipment. Most found them necessary but challenging
in terms of the technical difficulties; see Zeiner-Henriksen 1994 (in
Norwegian).
[212]
Opcode’s MIDIMAC (1990,
Vision) and Passport’s Master Tracks Pro were early Macintosh sequencer
programs; Notator and Cubase were early Atari programs; and C-Lab’s Supertrack
and Cakewalk were MS-DOS programs.
[213]
Tellef
Kvifte
observers that the term “sampling” is in fact used in the literature
to denote a variety of things, including the conversion from analogue to
digital, the recording of single sounds, and the use of earlier recordings;
Kvifte 2007b:106–108.
[214]
In hip-hop, digital
samplers gave producers an effective tool for recapturing the actual DJ
practice of playing small excerpts from various tracks. The earliest hip-hop
releases (for example, from Sugar Hill Records) were productions where this DJ
practice was transferred to a traditional recording practice using acoustic
instruments (see Greenberg 1999:23–32). Thus productions with digital
samplers were considered closer to the original hip-hop culture and therefore
more “authentic.” The use of digital samplers in electronic dance music did not
have the same roots in DJ practice. See also discussion on digital sampling in
Katz 2004, chapter 7.
[215]
For example, Kate Bush,
Army Dreamer
(1980); see Cunningham 1998:289.
[216]
For example, Steve
“Silk” Hurley’s
Jack Your Body
(1985/86) or
Adonis ’s
We’re Rocking Down the House
(1986). Many of the early Chicago house
producers did not use samplers. Compared to the secondhand purchase of a synth
or drum machine, even the more inexpensive samplers were considered a luxury.
[217]
Gilbert & Pearson
1999:74; emphasis in the original.
[218]
See note
46
on page
45 .
[219]
Gilbert & Pearson 1999:122.
[220]
Kvifte 2007b:120. The
connotations of “digital” apply to “technology” as well.
[221]
I will not discuss the differences between
the two technologies regarding these various types of equipment. This issue
raises complex questions of both production and reproduction of sound, where
preferences are difficult to evaluate objectively. See discussion in Kvifte
2007b.
[222]
Rule 1997:33.
[223]
See Auner 2000 for a discussion
of sounds associated with old machines or old sound-producing techniques.
[224]
In an interview with
DJ Times Magazine ,
Simon Ratcliffe of
Basement
Jaxx
emphasized that their equipment is all at least ten years old. Though
most of the equipment is still digital, then, older remains better; see Moayeri
1999.
[225]
Brøvig-Hanssen
makes a distinction between “opaque” and “transparent” mediation. The former
describes instances where production techniques are made audible and the focus
is directed towards them. The latter describes instances where the focus is
directed away from production techniques. She exemplifies opaque mediation
through tracks from the British group Portishead; see Brøvig-Hanssen
forthcoming 2010.