www.Tendance.co.uk | The World of Music Dance
www.Tendance.co.uk
The World of Music Dance
Home
Who is Tendanceuk's?
Armin Van Buuren – Burned with Desire
19
11
2007
Comments :
Leave a Comment »
Categories :
Uncategorized
Armin Van Buuren
26
10
2007
Armin van Buuren
(born
December 25 ,
1976 ) is a
trance music
DJ
and
producer
from
Leiden , the
Netherlands . He is currently ranked #2 worldwide according to
The DJ List , the world’s largest DJ directory. However in 2006, he placed 2nd in
DJ Mag ‘s annual
Top 100
Biography
Armin van Buuren chose to pursue his career as a professional musician despite the promise of a legal career in his native country of the Netherlands, where his legal studies were completed in 2004.
Van Buuren started working as a DJ in a local night club called Nexus, finished high school in 1995 and went on to university to study law. Meanwhile, he moved his studio equipment from his bedroom to a ‘real’ studio. The first tracks he produced in his new studio were, among others, tracks like “Touch Me” and “Communication”. Van Buuren has been quoted as saying, “Don’t be a prisoner of your own style.”
He has described his musical style as “liberating, euphoric, uplifting, melodic and energetic.”
He hosts the trance show
A State of Trance . The show has completed its 300th episode in May 2007, running for over 6 years.
In October 2002, Van Buuren was voted Number 5 in the
DJ Magazine
100 top DJs. The following year, he jumped up to the #3 spot, and held it strong for 3 years straight. His work left him on the #2 spot, just below
Paul van Dyk
in the 2006 polls.
As a producer
Armin Van Buuren has always had his own studio and works alone the majority of the time. He has never employed an
engineer , claiming he does not want the music to be altered by an engineer.
Since 1995, Van Buuren has released many tracks on different labels with increasing success. His first big success was “Blue Fear” on
Cyber Records . This ‘Euro Trance blueprint’ made it into the UK Chart. “Communication” was released on the same label, and had a huge impact on
Ibiza ,
Spain
in the summer of 1999. After being signed to
AM PM Records , this track entered the UK Chart at #18 in 2000
In the beginning of 1999, Van Buuren started his label Armind together with
United Recordings . The first release, Gig – “One”, was well received. The second release “Touch Me”, under the name
Rising Star
was signed to
Ministry Of Sound
in the UK, before the record was released
By the time of his third release, Gimmick – “Free” was signed to R&S Records, Van Buuren had managed to make his label popular very quickly. Under the surname
Gaia
he released “4 Elements” on Captivating Sounds, a sub-label of
Warner Brothers . Teaming up with
DJ Tiësto , two new projects were born:
Major League
– “Wonder Where You Are?” was released on
Blackhole
and
Alibi
– “Eternity” was released on
Armind . “Eternity” received club and chart success and was signed to
Paul van Dyk ‘s imprint
Vandit Records . Another major collaboration followed this. Together with
Ferry Corsten , Van Buuren recorded a riff-classic titled “Exhale” for the System F. album. Released as a single, this track reached gold status in less than a month.
In 2000 Van Buuren started his own AVB compilation series. He managed to find a balance between
progressive ,
techno
and
trance music
styles. AVB001 – “A State of Trance” (not to be confused with his weekly
ASOT
radio shows) sold more than 10,000 copies and contains Van Buuren’s well known remix of Moogwai – “Viola.” AVB002 “Basic Instinct” featured a new track:
Perpetuous Dreamer
– “The Sound Of Goodbye”. This track entered the Dutch charts in June 2001 at number 26. Later in the year the track hit #1 on the
Hot Dance Music/Club Play
chart. AVB003 – “In Motion” was released August 6th 2001. This album contained the real trance sound and was very popular in the US. AVB004 – “Transparance” followed in 2002.
In March 2001 Van Buuren started his own radio show on
ID&T
Radio. In this weekly two-hour show, entitled ‘ A State of Trance ‘, he plays the latest popular trance music tracks. His show and the artists he features are popularized by publishing the artists and track titles on
his website . This radio-show/website combination has proven popular internationally. When ID&T Radio changed genres in 2004, Van Buuren left and took
A State of Trance
with him. The show then moved to Fresh FM, a Dutch radio station. It is now a weekly feature on SLAM!FM, another Dutch radio station, DI.FM, an online radio station, and on
XM Satellite Radio
channel 82 in the
United States
and
Canada . A complete list of stations that broadcast ASOT can be found at
the ASOT section of Armins website . Also in 2004, Van Buuren remixed the 24 Theme into a trance hit. In June 2005, the 200th episode was celebrated in
Amsterdam
and subsequently aired on radio. The 250th (8 hour) anniversary episode was celebrated in Club Asta in The Hague, The Netherlands, featuring Van Buuren, Jonas Steur, M.I.K.E., John Askew, Rank 1 and Menno De Jong.
On
May 17 ,
2007 , Van Buuren began broadcasting the first of a two part series of what would become his 300th espisode of
A State of Trance .
He has also worked on remix projects involving tracks by Japanese superstar
Ayumi Hamasaki .
Aliases :
Amsterdance ,
Armania ,
Darkstar ,
E=mc² ,
Electrix ,
El Guitaro ,
Gaia ,
Gimmick ,
Hyperdrive Inc. ,
Major League ,
Misteri A ,
Perpetuous Dreamer ,
Problem Boy ,
Rising Star ,
The Shoeshine Factory .
As a performer
NYC, October 9, 2006
Van Buuren began his DJ career at club Nexus in Leiden, where he learned to play long DJ sets, which were regularly six to seven hours per set.
During school holidays he played more than four times a week. In 1999, he met Dave Lewis who introduced him as a DJ in England and the United States.
His DJ career accelerated, entering the
DJ magazine
Top-100 in November of 2001 at Number 27.
He has played in more than 25 different countries and can often be found on the main stage at big summer festivals. Van Buuren has played a record-breaking nine-hour set for Dancetheater in The Hague (Holland). In the United Kingdom one can see him perform regularly at
Passion
(resident 2002),
Godskitchen ,
Gatecrasher ,
Slinky , Peach and Golden.
In 2002 he had a residency at Glow in
Washington D.C. ,
and he has played in
Boston ,
Chicago ,
Atlanta ,
Denver ,
New York City ,
Los Angeles , and
St. Louis . He has also regularly appeared at
Amnesia
on the island of
Ibiza .
According to Van Buuren, “The fans and the public are the most important thing for a DJ.”
On April 12th of 2006, Van Buuren began a Canadian tour with a performance in Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada. This was his first appearance in the centrally located Canadian city. Despite a Wednesday booking, the venue was filled to capacity with fans eager to see Van Buuren perform. Throughout his set Van Buuren could be seen signing autographs for his eager fans.
On November 11, 2006 he had a live performance called Armin Only in
Ahoy
Rotterdam
for the second time (after Nov 12, 2005) with a 9 hour solo set, where he performed to over 11 000 fans.
Discography
Compilations
1999 “ Boundaries of Imagination “
2000 “001 A State of Trance”
2001 “002 Basic Instinct”
2001 “003 In Motion”
2002 “004 Transparance”
2003 “Universal Religion Chapter One”
2004 “ A State of Trance 2004 “
2004 “Big Room Trance”
2004 “Universal Religion 2004, Live From Armada At Ibiza”
2005 “ A State of Trance 2005 “
2005 “A State of Trance 2005 Year Mix”
2006 “ A State of Trance 2006 “
2006 “A State of Trance 2006 Year Mix”
(Released December 15, 2006 in the
Netherlands )
2007 “ A State of Trance 2007 ” (Release May 18, 2007)
Singles
1997 Blue Fear
1999 Communication
1999 Future Fun-land (As
Perpetuous Dreamer )
2000 Touch Me (As
Rising Star )
2000 Eternity (With
Tiësto
as
Alibi )
2000 Wonder Where you are (With
Tiësto
as
Major League )
2001 4 Elements (As
Gaia )
2001 The Sound of Goodbye (As
Perpetuous Dreamer )
2001 Exhale (With
Ferry Corsten
as
System F )
2002 Clear Blue Moon/Star Theme (As
Rising Star )
2002 Sunspot (As
Rising Star
vs.
Airwave )
2002 Dust.wav (As
Perpetuous Dreamer )
2003 Sunburn
2003 Yet Another Day (With
Ray Wilson )
2004 Burned With Desire (With
Justine Suissa )
2004 Blue Fear 2004
2004 Communication Part 3
2004 Intruder (with
M.I.K.E. )
2004 Pound (with
M.I.K.E. )
2005 Shivers (With Susana)
2005 Serenity (With
Jan Vayne )
2005 Zocalo (With
Gabriel & Dresden )
2006 Who Is Watching (With
Nadia Ali )
2006 Sail
2006 Control Freak
2006 Love You More (With
Raccoon )
2006 Saturday Night (Trance remake of the 1978
Herman Brood
classic)
2007 This World is Watching Me (vs
Rank 1
feat. Kush)
2007 Miserere
2007 Rush Hour
Albums
2003 “ 76 “
2005 “ Shivers “
2006 “ 10 Years “
Video
2006 Armin Only – The Next Level (DVD)
2007 Armin Only – Ahoy (DVD)
Comments :
Leave a Comment »
Tags:
Armin ,
Armin Van Buuren ,
Buuren ,
Van
Categories :
Uncategorized
ATB
26
10
2007
As both songwriter and producer, Andre Tanneberger has been living in two worlds for quite some time. One is the world of electronic music, where he has created extraordinary, melodious club tracks and played countless DJ sets all over the globe. Worldwide fame came courtesy of numerous top ten hits such as “9 PM (Till I Come)”, “Don’t Stop”, “Killer”, “Let U Go” and “Ecstasy”. The other world is an atmospheric domain – smoother songs to lose yourself in, where you can begin to dream.
On this, his seventh album ATB has succeeded in combining the two worlds, without intermingling them unnecessarily. “Trilogy” provides the electronic and melodious ATB sound blended with a unique rock and pop crossover flavour on the first CD. The second CD, on the other hand, offers the listener 14 super smooth tracks. “Every album should have its own soul and a golden thread leading through all the songs. However, you only really feel the soul if you listen to all the songs together. If you mix up the faster and slower songs, that isn’t going to work,” explains Andre.The golden thread he is referring to has been a feature of ATB’s career to date. Punctual as ever, he delivered an album for his fans every year. “Seven years”, released in 2005, was a mixture of new songs and a retrospective “Best Of” collection. This album formed a link between the past and future of his music. In doing so, ATB was also able to break with old habits. “Bringing a new album out every year wasn’t a deliberate plan as such, it simply happened.” Last year was the first in a long time in which I did not release a new ATB longplayer. After having played gigs all over the world in 2005 and 2006 I needed a break. I had to come to terms with new influences and jettison the old sounds.”Mission accomplished – the new album presents an array of innovative styles, making use of stronger instrumentation and tools:
“In the field of dance music the ratio or influence of electronic sounds to “handmade” drums, piano and guitars is around 90/10. We wanted to break open the whole thing and go for a 60/40 split, or even 50/50. We placed great emphasis on songwriting and spent a lot of time sitting in the studio playing drums or guitar, looking for new song ideas.”
His productions have always been international in character. “I have never thought about territories as such, or composed a song that for a certain region or country. That never worked for me. I think people are the same all over the world. Club music is a worldwide phenomenon.
People in Brazil dance to the same songs as people in Tokyo, London or South Africa. Dance music is a brilliant way to connect people all over the world”.
More than ten years of making electronic music and being a DJ have changed Andre, broadening his horizons. “My productions have become more adult. “Nevertheless his heart is still in electronic music, as well as being open to pop music. “You grow up and your taste in music grows with you.” Andre thinks the same is equally true for his fans. Having grown older with him, this is exactly why they can still identify with his songs.
The title of the new album shows that ATB has not broken completely with past conventions, but still has an eye on his past. Two songs on earlier albums were named “Trilogy”. The third version on the current album is not only the eponymous song, but also the concluding link of the chain. There is also a welcome return for a world famous international artist with whom Andre has collaborated in days gone by – the new song with Heather Nova turned out so well, that it has been chosen as the first single of the new album.
ATB also worked with Jennifer Karr, Jan Loechel, Jeppe Riddervold and Karen Ires on new album tracks. You can sense the creativity that has emerged from a concentrated phase in the studio. The many nights he spent with his team and best friend “Rhudee”, designated co-producer, proved truly inspiring. Andre points out: “We had so many songs left that we could have filled another album as well.” Having patently enjoyed his time in the studio, Andre is similarly looking forward to presenting the result to his fans. An eight gig Germany tour will be followed by shows in America, Asia, across Europe and Australia.
Comments :
Leave a Comment »
Tags:
ATB
Categories :
Uncategorized
Paul Van Dyk
26
10
2007
Born December 16th, 1971 in Eisenhuettenstadt, East Germany, Paul grew up in communist East Berlin. Prior to Germany’s reunification, he at least had an early window to the capitalist world via the cross-border airwaves.
“We were able to see Westside – TV and listen to western radio stations. We recorded the music and replayed it at our parties, because in the east we didn’t have something like a club culture. In those days I listened to the radio show of Monika Dietl. I was really captivated by the music of ‘The Smiths’ and ‘New Order’. It (the music) was very strong and emotional…
Then in 1989, as the wall finally came down, a broad Club culture sprung up throughout all of Berlin. “Mainly they played that hard Detroit – Techno. I liked this energetic spirit, but something was missing. I (was looking out) for something else.”
That search would never leave him. Stemming from two crusty old turntables, the first remix tapes of his musical ideas were created. And only a bit later, in March 1991, his unique style of dance music was played for the very first time to the public at the embryonic Berlin club “Tresor”.
Around this same period, Paul also started making his own original compositions. His first production “Perfect Day”, put together with Cosmic Baby as “Visions of Shiva”, was released in 1992. “I was pleased like a little child, holding my own very first record in my hands!,… Paul remembers. “Perfect Day” was published by the Berlin underground label ‘MFS’, and launched a promising career, which aimed without pause or hesitation for the top !
In 1993 Paul created the club hit of the year with his remix of Humate’s “Love Stimulation”. The following year, his first album “45 RPM” was recorded, while he was also regularly spinning sets at the legendary club ‘E – Werk’.
Over the next few years Paul garnered further respect by remixing tracks of many renowned artists such as Inspiral Carpets, Sven Väth, Curve and New Order. This was of course until the release of his second album, “Seven Ways”, which firmly established him as one of the world’s truly great electronic artists.
‘Seven Ways’ unleashed a frenzy of national and international interviews, and many globe-roaming DJ – sets as well, as Paul was catapulted into the Top 100 – Salecharts. Even the English music media, typically protective of their own homespun DJ artists, unanimously praised the record. Readers of “DJ Magazine voted ‘Seven Ways’ as the Number 1 album of the year. Bellowing singles such as “Beautiful Place”, “Forbidden Fruit” and “Words”, featuring remixes of Salt Tank, Quattara and Curve, fully secured him a place as a major player in the British and European dancecharts.
Before the club closed, Paul became an institution at Berlin’s ‘E – Werk’, regularly spinning new musical magic, with guest appearances by fellow superstar DJ’s Nick Warren, BT, Dave Seaman and Sasha.
In 1998 his first album “45 RPM” was released in the UK, and the new remix of the single “For an Angel” attacked the worldwide dancefloors. The album buzzed for two weeks at number 1 in England and four weeks at number 1 in the German dancecharts, and also achieved major postings in the American, Australian, Dutch, Belgian and Scandinavian dancecharts.
However, Paul’s core sentiments are not as a producer, to be shuttered away in some stealthy studio, but as a performing DJ very willing to be seen, and with a deep desire to have contact with his audience, whether it be 500 people or 1.5 million…
“As I began my career as a DJ I discovered that there is a really deep communication between DJ and people. I learned to observe the different vibrations, learned how to move the crowd, and how to create atmosphere.” Paul remembers, “because while spinning, an interaction takes place between the people and me. I never come into a club and spin just a ready set. It is also a very new experience for me every time, and nobody knows in advance how it will end.”
Now he creates that experience regularly, as resident – DJ in New York’s “Twilo” club, at the acclaimed “Gatecrasher” in Sheffield, and in his hometown of Berlin.
In 1999 Paul was divorced from his former label ‘MFS’ and started up, together with his team, the new label “Vandit” Records. This label presents both Paul’s releases, as well as other new and innovative dance/DJ artists.
In England, ‘Deviant’ – Records are taking care of Paul’s creative output, whose brainstorm was the 1998 Triple – CD “Vorsprung Dyk Technik”. Combining 33 tracks, it is the most exhaustive collection of Paul’s remixes to date, containing classics like Humate’s “Love Stimulation” and Joe T. Vanelli’s “Playing with the Voice in Germany” as well as Binary Finary’s clubhit “1998” and Paul’s own chart single “For an Angel”. A year after its release in Nov 1999, “Vorsprung Dyk Technik” was officially declared “Silver” with over 60,000 UK sales, a very rare feat indeed for a Triple – CD.
Today Paul’s touring diary is incredibly hectic with regular globetrotting stops at major venues in London, Tel Aviv, Mexico, New York and Singapore. Between all that, Berlin is always there and waiting — if not for the interviews and local club dates, then for looking after his own label, recording studio and radio show (not to mention his friends and family as well!).
“It isn’t the success or which place I take in the salecharts that is important for me. (What’s) most important are the people, the family, friends, ..and everyone, (especially) where I’ve changed something. I am really pleased when someone tells me: “Hey, by hearing your song something changed in my life!” Paul says, “I’ve never made music for being trendy or making the fat money. I make music for myself, it (the music) comes directly from my stomach, my music springs from an intense feeling. And every track has its own little story…”
We are all wishing you lots of pleasure while listening or dancing to Paul’s music, and you’ll definitely be hearing more from him on this website in the near future !
Just listen, enjoy and be inspired!
Comments :
Leave a Comment »
Tags:
Dyk ,
Paul ,
Paul Van Dyk ,
Van
Categories :
Uncategorized
Dj Tïesto
26
10
2007
Tiesto’s career is punctuated by landmark achievements ‘ the first DJ in the world to sell out a solo stadium event for over 25,000 people, he scored a number one hit with his single Traffic, the first instrumental track to reach the top spot in his homeland of Holland in 23 years. His remix of Delerium featuring Sarah McLachlan’s Silence was the first house track ever broadcast on daytime radio in North America, (it became an international dancefloor anthem and also spent eight weeks in the UK top 10 chart). He played live in front of billions of people during the Parade Of The Athletes at the official opening ceremony of the Olympic Games in Athens. But despite his meteoric success, Tiesto remains grounded about his achievements and clearly loves making and playing music above the accolades it brings.
On Black Hole Tiesto has released the Magik and In Search Of Sunrise mixcompilation series, and most recent Nyana. His remix of ‘Delerium featuring Sarah McLachlan – Silence’ was the first house track ever broadcasted on daytime radio in North America and was eight weeks in the U.K. top 10 chart.
Born in Holland, Tiesto became a DJ because he ‘liked to share music with other people. When I was younger, I’d listen to a radio show called the Soul Show, and to Ben Liebrand’s mix show, where he would remix and cut up different tracks, and I just thought – I wanna do this!’ Starting out with a mobile show around the country, he progressed to student parties, and then to three nights a week in a club, learning and perfecting his craft. ‘music was always my first love but back then I didn’t know it was possible to make a living out of being a DJ… If I wasn’t a DJ now though I’d be a chef. I love cooking ‘ it must be because of the mixing element!’ The productions came later, in 1995. ‘I really wanted to produce music that I could play in my sets, because it brings much more fulfilment to the process. I bought some samplers, some computer programs, and just started working on it.’ He makes it sound easy ‘ indeed, he makes it look easy as 10 years down the line his productions consistently bother the charts and frequently reach number one around Europe.
In 1997 Tiesto, along with Arny Bink, formed Black Hole Recordings, the label that launched the hugely acclaimed Magik. In Search Of Sunrise, and Nyana mix compilations. The label grew to such proportions that in 2001 Tiesto started a sub-label, Magik Muzik. ‘It’s the home of records of mine, or of people whose work I really believe in,’ he enthuses. ‘Everything on Magik Muzik is what you’ll find in my sets, which makes it more of my own little project.’ Some of the gems from Magik Muzik include 2001 anthem Flight 643, his artist album In My Memory, and tracks from Umek, Mark Norman and Mojado.
Though known primarily for his pioneering contributions to the trance scene, Tiesto’s style is now a mix of everything: ‘trance, house, techno – it’s the best of all that the dance world has to offer. In 1998, I was really a trance DJ, but now I’ve travelled round the world so much, different influences have seeped in and I play a bit of everything. I think the only way forward for DJs now is to play a diverse mix of sounds.’ Indeed, his brand of trance was always pushing at the constraints of the genre anyway, featuring soaring vocals from the likes of Sarah McLachlan and Kirsty Hawkshaw, spine-tingling breakdowns, and euphoric melodies at every end of the spectrum. His productions, sets, and releases range from peak time club heaven to the sort of perfect chill out that could reduce a grown man to tears, and have at times owed as much influence to classical music as to dance.
The many high profile gigs and shows have now taken Tiesto away from exclusively playing clubs, and propelled him to become more of a mainstream artist. ‘Often at my shows now, half of the people are die-hard clubbers, but the other half are people who know me from the radio, or from more mainstream gigs,’ he says. ‘It’s more like they’re going to a concert, so now I get a great mix of both worlds.’
In addition to this huge event, the album ‘Parade of the athletes’ is released worldwide in October 2004, which contains the music from Tiesto’s set at the Opening Ceremony. Simultaneously, the title song of his ‘Just Be’ artist album is climbing the lists and is heard on dancefloors everywhere.
Describing the last few years as ‘a journey of defining moments,’ (as well as the usual club successes, his shelves are groaning under the weight of numerous awards ‘ TMF-Awards, MTV, Dutch DJ – and gold discs…) his favourites include the second night of the Tiesto In Concert show in Holland in 2004: ‘I was really aware of what was going on, the music was just right ‘ a mix of all my big tunes and new tunes, everything just felt perfect that night. I played for nine hours straight, and it was my favourite gig ever.’ And, of course, being voted by the readers as the number one DJ in the world for the third time. ‘The first time it happened it was so amazing, I was overjoyed. The second and the third time were great as well of course, but the first time you’re on the cover of that magazine that is so respected by other DJs ‘ it’s like winning an Oscar!’
Continuing to explore fresh avenues, Tiesto is currently experimenting with new sounds in the studio, and writing more vocals himself. ‘I’m not looking for any big collaborations right now, I’m more interested in a burgeoning talent ‘ someone whose voice is good, and that really touches you. A voice should sound like an instrument to me. I’ve had a spell away from the studio, relaxing and travelling, but now I’m really enthused about getting back in there. I’m more open to doing remixes again. I like to hear a track and right away know what I want to do with it, what I can make different, and whether it’ll work for me in my sets ‘ all my remixes have to be tried and tested.’
The future for Tiesto promises yet further success, both as the solo artist he’s become and the DJ we know him to be. ‘Another album, more remixes, definitely,’ he agrees, ‘but it’s hard to look too far into the future. Every couple of months it seems that something new, unexpected and exciting is happening!’
Sally Learmouth
Awards Overview
Awards 2005
* 3 FM Award Best Dance Artist
* Release Dance Award Best Trance/Progressive artist
* Release Dance Award Best International DJ
* TMF Belgium Best International DJ
* Dance Music Award Germany Best Trance Artist
* WMC Awards Miami Best Producer
* WMC Awards Miami Best Hi-NRG / Euro track
* WMC Awards Miami The Ortofon Best European DJ 2004
* WMC Awards Miami Best Producer 2004
* TMF Award Holland Best Dance National
* TMF Award Holland Radio 538 single of the year
* TMF Award Holland Lifetime Achievement
* Edison Music Award Best dance album ‘ Just Be
Awards 2004
* ID&T Dutch DJ Award Best Dutch DJ by audience
* Buma/Stemra Sound of Silence Award
* TMF Award Belgium Best International DJ
* World Music Award World’s best selling Dutch artist
* Ibiza DJ Award Best International DJ Trance
* TMF Award Holland Best National DJ
* TMF Award Holland Best Dance Act National
* DJ Mag Top 100 Number 1 Position
* WMC Awards Miami Best International DJ
Awards 2003
* World Dancestar Award U.S.A. Best International DJ
* ID&T Dutch DJ Award Best Dutch DJ by professional jury
* ID&T Dutch DJ Award Best Dutch DJ by audience
* Radio 538 Dance Award Radio 538 Dutch Audience Edison
* TMF Award Holland Best Dance Act National
* TMF Award Holland Best National DJ
* TMF Award Belgium Best Dance International
* MTV Europe Music Award Best Dutch Act
* BG Magazine Award Best Club/Trance/Hardhouse DJ
* DJ Mag Top 100 Number 1 Position
* Mixmag Award Best Resident Ibiza
Comments :
Leave a Comment »
Tags:
Dj Tïesto ,
Tiesto
Categories :
Uncategorized
Carl Cox
26
10
2007
So much has been said about one of the greatest DJs in the world. Carl Cox has excelled as a producer, artist, remixer, radio DJ, businessman, and ambassador for dance music. In the UK he is a full-blown ‘Pop Star’. As anyone who has met him will attest, Carl Cox is the living embodiment of the perfect gentlemen, the DJ diplomat and progressive music pioneer.
Carl Cox began 1996 with the launch of his own record label, Worldwide Ultimatum, releasing his debut self-produced album ‘At The End Of The Cliche’. This album was a culmination of influences gained from 18 years of the experience. It took over two years to complete ans stormed up the UK charts attaining a position of #22. In addition, he began his own management company, Ultimate Music Management, which has blossomed under his watchful eye and boasts a roster which includes such well-known DJ’s as Josh Wink, Laurent Garnier and Judge Rules.
Carl Cox’s achievements do not stop there. He has appeared on Top of the Pops and in 1996 was awarded the International Dance Award “Dj Of The Year” for the second year in a row. Muzik Magazine crowned him “DJ Of The Year” in their readers poll and he received “Best DJ Of The Year” accolades in Scotland, Ireland, France and Germany. He has graced the covers of England’s biggest music magazines including Mixmag, Muzik, DJ and Wax. Cox also joined the prestigious team at London’s Kiss FM radio station with his own “Ultimate Mix” show on Saturday nights and was awarded the “DJ Mixer Of The Year” by its listeners.
Carl Cox has rocked dance floors the world over and has conquered corners of the globe previously left untouched. Maintaining a constant tour schedule, playing throughout the UK and Europe, he recently mesmerized thousands in Israel, South Africa, Japan and Australia. Cox appeared at the legendary Love Parade (one of the world’s largest raves) in Berlin playing to over 80,000 people. He is the featured DJ this year at T In The Park, and continues to play the UK’s biggest clubs including Slam, Cream, Lakota and Minstry Of Sound.
Signing an exclusive deal with Moonshine Music here in the United States, this is the first time any of Carl’s work has been available domestically. F.A.C.T. 2 is the follow-up to his highly successful F.A.C.T. which sold over 70,000 copies in the UK alone.
Comments :
Leave a Comment »
Tags:
Carl Cox
Categories :
Uncategorized
Above & Beyond
26
10
2007
ABOVE AND BEYOND are producers Jono Grant, Tony McGuinness and Paavo Sijamki. Collectively they have been responsible for some of the world’s biggest club tracks over the last few years and now rank among the most respected trance producers globally, with a number of successful projects including OCEANLAB, FREESTATE, TRANQUILITY BASE, POS, NITROMETHANE and DIRT DEVILS.
After building a strong reputtion through remix work for acts like Adamski and Dario G, Above and Beyond’s major breakthrough came when their spec mix of Madonna’s single “What It Feels Like For A Girl” was accepted. In fact, Madge was so impressed with their version that she decided to shoot a video to the Above & Beyond mix instead of the album version! The infamous video was directed by husband Guy Ritchie.
Since then the guys have been busy dishing out the remix treatment to high profile acts like DELERIUM, THREE DRIVES and Japanese superstar AYUMI HAMASAKI, whose last album sold 5 million copies in Japan alone. The buzz around Above & Beyond also reached the US, where a remix of ARMIN VAN BUUREN’s ‘The Sound of Goodbye’ enjoyed major radio play and hit No.1 in the Billboard Dance Chart late In 2002.
“Far From In Love” represented the first solo offering under the Above & Beyond name. Heavily supported by Dave Pearce/Judge Jules on Radio 1 and Armin Van Buuren on ID&T, the track has attained anthem status among the group’s many fans and has been licensed to the likes of Media Records and ID+T internationally. Far From In Love unites an emotive vocal with Above & Beyond’s trademark angelic strings and melodies, the band are currently working on a follow up.
Other classic tracks to emerge from the Above and Beyond collective include OCEANLAB’s “Clear Blue Water” and “Sky Falls Down”, TRANQUILITY BASE “Razorfish” and DIRT DEVILS “The Drill”, one of clubland’s biggest anthems in 2002. Amid the busy production schedule, the boys have also found time to establish and run two successful record labels, with Anjunabeats and Hard On Recordings both enjoying a solid following from the world’s most influential DJs.
As DJ’s Above and Beyond are beginning to carve quite a name for themselves following high profile sets at the likes of PASSION, MINISTRY OF SOUND, ROOM AT THE TOP and international super-clubs like VELFARRE in Japan. With a host of domestic and international gigs already planned over the next few months, expect to hear a lot more from Above and Beyond in 2003.
Comments :
Leave a Comment »
Tags:
Above ,
Above & Beyond ,
Beyond
Categories :
Uncategorized
« Previous Entries
Categories
Uncategorized
Create a free website or blog at WordPress.com .
The Freshy Theme .
www.Tendance.co.uk
Blog at WordPress.com .
The Freshy Theme .
Follow
Follow “www.Tendance.co.uk”
Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.
Build a website with WordPress.com
Add your thoughts here... (optional)
Post to
Cancel