Ibiza 2012: Day 1 + Intro | DJ Kevin Scott
Home
About
Gallery
Video
Contact
Thursday, May 30th @ 11:00pm
Infusion Lounge • San Francisco, CA
Sunday, June 9th @ 11:00pm
Martini Ranch • Scottsdale, AZ
Friday, June 14th @ 11:00pm
Heat Ultra Lounge • Anaheim, CA
Friday, June 28th @ 11:00pm
BuBinga Lounge • Reno, NV
InstaParty
Click to Download
Whatever Party Mix #1
Click to Download
The Righteous Room 2011
Click to Download
DMS Mini Mix (April 2012)
Click to Download
Destination Nowhere
Click to Download
Live at the Mondrian
Click to Download
Ibiza 2012: Day 1 + Intro
06.17.2012
This year, instead of doing what most DJ’s do in the States by throwing 5 different birthday parties at 5 different clubs in 5 different cities, I decided to head off to an exotic destination to celebrate my birthday: Ibiza, Spain.
I’ll spare you an all out history lesson on the island of
Ibiza
and simply say: if you are even remotely involved in the DJ or club world then you know that Ibiza is the center of the universe for this industry and has been for many, many years. The parties and clubs here are legendary. From
Pacha
to
Privilege
to
Space
to
Amnesia
to
Cafe Del Mar
(and many others), Ibiza is THE nightlife destination of the world.
Now to the tough part… getting here. It took us 3 flights and nearly 16.5 hours of flying to make it to this magical island. We went from LAX to Toronto to Dusseldorf to Ibiza. The international flights were a trip… German beers, hot towels, full meals, real silverware and other things you will not find on domestic flights in the U.S. We literally had to run to make our layovers… but after a long day, we MADE it!
We left at 8am on Friday out of LAX and arrived at 9:20am Saturday in Ibiza (that’s 16.5 hours of flying and a 9 hour time jump). When we arrived, we were instantly greeted by an overwhelming amount of club advertisements in the baggage claim area. This place literally lives & breathes nightlife.
We got to our villa in the Ibiza Town harbor and I must say it was even more spectacular than the online pictures showed. The upper deck has an absolutely stunning view of the harbor and the sea. You can hear the waves hit the rocks from pretty much any room in the villa. It’s truly serene.
Each & every day, I’ll be blogging to you from this exact location… jealous yet?
After a much needed nap, we hit the streets, got some essentials (beer, case of water, snacks, etc) and familiarized ourself with the Ibiza Town surroundings. The great thing about our villa is that it’s literally in the heart of everything so any thing you need is walking distance. Here’s me with the boys outside our villa ( Whitematic
&
ForAllToEnvy ):
We checked out the famous “ Croissant-Show ” cafe and had a couple of their mini-chocolate croissants which were amazing!
Here’s my buddy Jerry (aka
DJ Whitematic ) and I enjoying an Ibiza beer in town while waiting for our pizza:
We ended the evening by having a delicious dinner, some drinks and we pre-purchased our tickets for Space for Sunday’s legendary “ We Love”
party. One of the crazy things about Ibiza is that people eat & go out SUPER late. Clubs don’t really get going until 2:30 to 3am. It’s very common for people to be out eating & pre-partying all the way until 2am. I love seeing all the differences in cultures & lifestyles throughout the world… everywhere is different. Tommorrow we hit the beach & go clubbing all night, more pics & recap to come!
Tweet
Ibiza 2012: Day 2 →
← VINTAGE TEE: Eddie Murphy “Raw” Tour Tee (1987)
instagram
[instapress userid="djkevinscott" piccount="4" size="115"
effect="fancybox" title="1"]