Prime Your Fire Pump: Chicago at Toronto FC | OTF Soccer
OTF Soccer
ANALYSIS. INSIGHT. FLUFF.
Menu
Skip to content
Home US Olympic Soccer Team USMNT: U.S. Men’s Soccer Contributors
Search
Scott Fenwick
Chicago Fire Match Previews Austin Berry ,
Chicago Fire ,
Chicago Fire Soccer ,
Guillermo Franco ,
Logan Pause ,
Sean Johnson ,
Toronto FC ,
Wells Thompson
Prime Your Fire Pump: Chicago at Toronto FC
September 12, 2012
Scott on Thursday morning if the Fire don’t get three points in Toronto tonight. (GIF: gifsoup.com)
These long stretches without league play make me anxious.
After another long break from MLS action that included a dramatic comeback draw vs. Liga MX side Club Santos Laguna and some underwhelming front office action, your Men in Red once again travel north of the border to take on lowly Toronto FC at BMO field on Wednesday night. And fret not Fire fans, because
it’s gonna be one hell of a ride from here on out…
Considering the case
On The Fire ‘s Stephen Mangat laid out yesterday in his
‘Know Your Enemy”  feature,
tonight’s tussle in Toronto is a must-win match for Chicago.  With at least one game in hand on all the clubs vying for an Eastern Conference playoff spot, a win at the Reds will boost the Fire to 47 points and vault Chicago into sole possession of second place (at least for a couple of days).  Anything less than three points versus the worst team in MLS will have many scratching their heads at best and others performing ritual suicide at worst.
Houston Recap and the Past Ten Days
All that time off from MLS action left me with fleeting feelings of that glorious Sunday at Toyota Park when the Men in Red dispatched the Dynamo 3-1.
After witnessing three exciting goals and a stalwart defensive effort, the Fire nation was buzzing.
The result was nothing less than inspiring. Check out our
“What We Learned”
piece to relive the magic.
Shortly after the Houston match,
I became involved in a conversation about whether it mattered that “the media” ignores the Chicago Fire.
Apparently, some out there think the Fire get no love. Furthermore, some lament the paltry local media coverage of our city’s club. Lastly, others believe that more attention will arrive if the Chicago becomes a consistent winner.
What does
On The Fire
have to say about this? Stop whining.
While conventional national and local media coverage would be a welcome change, the club’s success and ability to (hopefully) consistently sell out matches doesn’t depend on whether
ESPN ( or the
Chicago Tribune
for that matter) covers the Fire. After all, Toyota Park is averaging about 75% capacity without it. MLS attendance is up across the board.
More folks are talking and, ahem, writing about soccer in America.
Plus, as evinced by this fine institution of sports journalism, we have the technology to spread awareness of the most glorious club in MLS ourselves. Hell, even folks in the UK and abroad are beginning to pay attention to our league.
The target demographic for soccer’s growth in this country is 18-34. They’re all wired up. So again,
who cares if the Trib, Sun-Times, and local network television news affiliates don’t pay CFSC much mind.   All folks need to do is hit the interwebs to get coverage and commentary they can’t get from mainstream media outlets. And even if those same publications and networks decided to pay attention, so what?  Frankly, their coverage sucks.
Really, it does. Somebody leave a comment and argue the contrary.
My point?
All things equal, Toyota Park will be filled when Chicago anchors itself at the top of the league table.
That’s it. Period. And as far as the Chicagoland market goes, unless you’re a Cub fan (or a Chad or Tracy tourist looking for a good time out in Chicago’s biggest bar),
Chicago sports fans are demanding. They want a winner.
And if they don’t get one, well, only the diehards remain, which results in reduced attendance and general indifference towards a team or club. But if you’ve been paying attention, things are heading in a positive direction for professional soccer in Chitown.
So, are “the media” really not paying attention?
Let’s see, shall we? After the big win at home vs. the Dynamo, here’s a sampling of what “they” said about La Maquina Roja. Check out this honor roll:
Friedrich: MLS MVP? (Photo: MLSsoccer.com)
Logan Pause
was  honored as a MLS Humanitarian of the month ;
Austin Berry
was named
Soccer By Ives ‘s
Rookie of the Month for August ;
MLSsoccer.com included
Patrick Nyarko
and
Arne Fredrich
in its
round 26 starting XI ;
Daniel Paladini
and
Sean Johnson
appeared in
the Castrol Weekly Top 20 ;
Our man
Steve Davis
at
NBC Sports Pro Soccer Talk
placed
Arne Fredrich
in
his MLS starting XI for round 26 ;
Davis also
lauded the Men in Red
after the Houston match;
Our man at UK’s  the  g uardian
Graham Parker
is high on the Fire . Impressed with Chicago’s tactics and opportunistic play vs. Houston, GP thinks Chicago “look good at taking chances”,
an attribute that has the Men in Red looking insidiously dangerous;
During his Labor Day holiday recovery time after attending the Houston match at Toyota Park, Brian at
Oleary’s Podcast  commented on Chicago’s fine form. In terms of strength,
the man with the golden voice compared the Fire to New York Red Bulls and expressed confidence about Chicago’s chances to play in November;
Johnson: Keep it steady kid. And get some stick-um from the kit man. (Photo: chicago-fire.com)
And finally, the boys over at
MLS Extra Time Radio
devoted some air time to the Men in Red last week. While editor-in-chief of MLSsoccer.com Greg Lalas wouldn’t agree that Chicago is a playoff “lock”, he heaped praise upon Arne Friedrich for Ze German’s “phenomenal” play against Houston. Speculating whether or not the veteran half of the “A-team” might deserve consideration for league MVP,
Lalas said Friedrich’s “influence and impact…has solidified [Chicago’s] back line, which allows all those guys that they have going forward to succeed.”
Furthermore Lalas added, “We should be talking about [Friedrich’s] influence in making [everyone] around him better.”
On a less positive note (got’s to keep it real), Lalas and Simon Borg also fairly assessed
Sean Johnson’s performance against Houston as somewhat erratic.
Despite a few brilliant saves,
the writers cited SeanJ’s “bumbling” and “fumbling” of the ball a few times as perhaps a legitimate concern for the Fire.
Plus, upon further review, it appears that Mac Kandji should have had a goal on the hand ball call in the first half. Johnson was slow to react to the attacking Kandji and found himself out of position on the no-goal. But hey, them’s the breaks. In soccer, it all tends to even out in the end. And it’s not as if Chicago hasn’t been on the unfortunate end of poor officiating this season. San Jose match ring a bell?
A quick note on Eastern conference action during Chicago’s break from league play:
Like the last idle period, results were mixed for the Fire. The Revs surprised Columbus 2-0 on 9/5, but Houston pulled one out in stoppage time at home vs. RSL. While the latter result vaulted the Dynamo back into third place, it isn’t cause concern. The Fire have two games in hand on the Dynamo.
More on how they stand in the East later on…
Oh yeah, and there’s an international friendly to mention. Apparently,
the Fire put on a nice showing against Club Santos Laguna last Saturday night at Toyota Park.
I wouldn’t know because I was attending the Bruce Springsteen concert at Wrigley Field and having the time of my life. Luckily for you though dear reader,
On The Fire ‘s roving reporter Roberto Diaz (aka RDIII) was on the scene. If you haven’t already, check out his pre- and post-match coverage and commentary  here
and
here , respectively.
Welcome to Chitown brother Wells Thompson! (Photo: facebook.com)
Wells Thompson and Other Mysteries
Former New England Revolution and Colorado Rapids midfielder
Wells Thompson  joined the Fire on Monday, and to call the reaction mixed is an understatement. Tepid and puzzled might be the more appropriate descriptors.
Apparently, Wells’s butt was sore from riding so much pine at cellar-dwelling Colorado that he publicly asked to be traded.
When the news broke that Frankie K. was bringing the veteran in, the prevailing question was:  Why another midfielder?
Followed by…
How will Thompson fit into a crowded midfield?
Will Thompson play right back or holding midfielder?
How will the surging Daniel Paladini be affected?
Is his price tag too expensive?
What is Frank Klopas thinking?
Is this a move for next year?
Inquiring minds in the tweet-o-sphere wanted to know answers to these questions and many more after the news about the deal officially broke. Well, all I have to say is:
as the infamous Carlos de los Cobos so eloquently put it, “This is the soccer.”
But despite the ambiguity, leave it to
Soccer By Ives ‘s Jeff Krause to bring levity to the madness. Jeff reported that
Klopas plans to use Wells on the wing as a sub to spell Flaco Fernandez and Patrick Nyarko when needed . And Anthony Zilis of MLSsoccer.com added that Thompson will get a few spot starts to provide regulars with some rest during the playoff push.
Well, we’ve certainly come a long way from Carlos Bocanegra rumors, haven’t we folks? But hey, despite his benchwarmer status and high salary, Wells loves the Lord.
And
if lovin’ the Lord is wrong,
On The Fire
doesn’t wanna be right!
But on the other hand, as @ugly11 pointed out Monday, the Fire look like they need another centerback rather than an additional midfielder, as Cory Gibbs’s rehab is not progressing well.
Maybe the front office brought in Wells to channel His power to heal Gibbs’s wounded knee?
Let’s pray. Chicago Fire team writer Jeff Crandall said that Thompson was brought in to provide “more midfield depth.” Right. You heard it here first folks. Watch out for the 2-6-2, coming your way at Toyota Park soon!
Wells Thompson and Guillermo Franco…? (Photo: tadalafil1.com)
Nevertheless, as I suspected,
this isn’t the end of roster move action before the Saturday deadline.
Always a pipeline for front office moves, Guillermo Rivera
reported Tuesday  that Chicago has “another fairly well-known player in camp for a trial.”
Oooh. Exciting.
Apparently, the player in question is, funny enough, another Guillermo! This one’s name is Franco however.
Guillermo Franco, a 35 year-old former Mexican international striker, is on trial in Bridgeview.
What’s Franco done lately you ask? He scored 0 goals in 12 matches with Liga MX side Pachuca last year.
Woww maaan.
Mind you, I’ve never seen this guy play, but from what I hear from those in the know it sounds like he should be put to pasture or sent to the glue factory.  On The Fire ‘s roving reporter Roberto Diaz (RDIII), believes that Franco “is nowhere near an upgrade in any sense for the Fire.” Damn.
After this week’s front office moves, I’m gonna have to refill my Cialis prescription.
To Power Rank or Not to Power Rank?
MLS Round 27 (abridged version)
Chicago Fire: Aggregate = 6.8 (down 0.3 from last week)
ESPN FC
#5
– “The Fire had a break from league play, but still stayed sharp with a 2-2 friendly draw against Santos Laguna. Of greater importance will be Wednesday’s tilt against Toronto that could see Chicago jump up to second place in the Eastern Conference.”
Exactly.
MLSsoccer.com
#6  – “RSL’s loss is Chicago’s gain. Fact is, they probably should have been moved up to sixth last week – and they’ll get a chance to prove they’re Eastern Conference contenders with two very winnable games in the next five days.”
TRUTH.
BS Nation’s Oshan: The blogger we love to hate. #AntiSounder (Photo: sbnation.com)
BS Nation
#7
– “Moved up ever so slightly in our rankings despite getting the week off. With a road game against Toronto and a home game against the Impact coming up, now is the time to make their move.”
Awww. Thanks for the bump Jerry. Kisses.
Goal.com
#8
– “Dishing a conditional draft pick to Colorado for Wells Thompson represents a wise piece of business for Fire boss Frank Klopas. The pesky winger may or may not play a role in the postseason push, but he strengthens the bench at a modest cost. Little upgrades matter in the grand scheme of things, especially when the Fire can cut ties with Thompson at the end of the season if the move doesn’t pan out for both parties.”
How in the hell do the Fire go from #5 last week to #8 this week without having played a match? Loco.
Fox Soccer
#8
– “Chris Rolfe’s return made the Fire a more dynamic and potent outfit. Austin Berry and Arne Friedrich will play a larger role in determining how far Frank Klopas’ side goes in the postseason.”
Fire drop to #8 and Houston moves to #7? Muy loco.
How Do They Stand in the East?
As tight as a… heh, well, on second thought, please allow me to start over (I’ve got Fire junior teams and high school chicks following me now). Ahem. The Eastern Conference race is very close now, with only eight points separating first place Sporting KC and fifth place Columbus.
Here’s a run down the table as of this morning:
1st – Sporting KC
(50 points / 27 matches played)
A mere three points from the MLS Supporters Shield lead, the pansies in powder blue host Houston at Dopestrong Sporting Park on Friday night. With a game in hand on the Dynamo,
a draw will suffice here for SKC to hold on to their lead for another week.  Look for this one to be a 15-round heavyweight tussle. Thanks in advance to Peter Vermes for not playing to win (we wish).
2nd – New York Red Bulls (46/27)
RBNY’s been out of action for a while now.
Their home match vs. the Crew will be the Bulls’ first in nearly three weeks.
I imagine the break was good timing for the squad, as Thierry Henry’s been ailing of late. Hans Backe and the boys need their world-class Frenchman healthy if they hope to have a shot at the top playoff seed.
3rd – Houston Dynamo
(45/28)
The Dynamo really need a result at  SKC on Friday. Why you ask? Well, after Friday the club will have endured a grueling schedule that had them play sixteen matches across all competitions in ten weeks. Then, Houston will not return to MLS league play until 9/23 when they travel to face the Union in Philly.
And while they certainly need the rest, Kinnear and his troops must sit idle and bite their nails while other playoff contenders look to leapfrog the Dynamo
– including a certain club from a certain city that’s RED and WHITE…
4th – Chicago Fire
(44/26)
As mentioned before, tonight’s match in Toronto serves as Chicago’s game in hand on the rest of the playoff contenders.
If they win at BMO field again, the Men in Red will temporarily move into second place in the East on 47 points – only three points off leaders SKC, and amazingly, only six points off the MLS Supporters Shield with seven matches to play.
Think about that for a moment. If I would have predicted the aforementioned scenario in March – or even a couple of months ago – you all would’ve gone to the psych ward for
Kuru . So to all of you skeptics and pessimists out there, look back at the recent past, evaluate the big picture, and realize that the Chicago Fire Soccer Club is like
Virginia Slims
cigarettes – they’ve come a long way baby. Playoff race bitches. THIS is the soccer.
5th – Columbus Crew
(42/27)
The Poo are the team everyone’s been fawning over lately.
The acquisition of Argentinian play-making wizard Federico Higuain transformed Columbus into a legit playoff contender. Yet, after going on an absolute tear in August they’ve tempered of late, evinced by a 0-2 loss at the New Suckland Devolution last week – an unexpected gift for the Fire. Klopas sent Screamin’ Jay Heaps a fruit basket.
Saturday is a true test for this squad.
A result at Red Bull Arena on 9/15 keeps them in the hunt. More importantly, it will serve to keep their confidence high. After that, Columbus gets a gimme at home next Wednesday vs. Chivas USA, followed by
a titanic battle at Toyota Park on Saturday, 9/22 . Oh yeah. I can feel my blood pressure rise as I write this…
6th – DC United (41/27)
I’ve said it before and I’ll say it again –
this squad is on a road to nowhere . And with veteran star Dwayne DeRosario suffering an apparent MCL injury Tuesday night in Panama while playing for his “home and native land” Canada in World Cup qualifying action, you can pretty much put a fork in the Dirty Birds from RFK.
This is not simply a huge blow to the starting XI, but perhaps more importantly, a psychological one as well.
That said, what Ben Olson and company have working to their advantage now is an extremely soft schedule – save for their last two vs. Columbus and Chicago. For their next five matches DC will face in order: New England, Philadelphia, Chivas USA, Portland, and Toronto FC. Now, three of those five are away, but there are no excuses at this point. The Screaming Eagles will be pissed if United doesn’t bring home at least eleven points from these five matches.
7th – Montreal Impact (39/29)
Although our man Gio Sardo at
Mount Royal Soccer
(a fine Montreal Impact institution) hasn’t given up hope on his Royal Bleus, well, the rest of us know better.
With each of the six clubs ahead of them holding anywhere from one to three matches in hand, the Impact must move mountains to get into the playoffs.  Montreal really blew it the other week when, up 1-0 well into the second half, they failed to come away with a result at Crew Stadium. That, I’m sorry to say, was their season. Fini. But, mathematically the Impact are still in it, so look for them to come to Toyota Park on Saturday ready to win it.
RUFF?! (Photo: chicago-fire.com)
Sparky’s Sizzling Questions
#1 Will Chicago keep more possession at TFC than they did vs. Houston?
Yes. Much more.
Lacking firepower and many regulars, look for the Reds to sit back, park the proverbial bus, and hunker down in the defensive third. It’s not going to be pretty folks. And as tactical guru “Irish” Stephen Piggott wisely said, the Fire must be patient against a squad that will look to primarily defend. And by the way, what’s with guys named Stephen knowing a sh*tload about soccer anyway? Maybe I should change my name? But then I’d have to purport to know a lot about soccer, and many of you would dismiss me as a poser – if you don’t already.
#2 What must Chicago fear most from Toronto FC?
Hmmm. Tough question. Perhaps a drunk Milos Kocic humping the post during the second half after one too many slivovitzes? After all, his wifey just gave birth to triplets, so he must be feeling quite randy at the moment. Nah. Seriously (no, really), to channel my man Irish Steve once again,
it’s the counterattacking long ball . Chicago’s seen this movie before (read: DC United). The Fire fullbacks must remain disciplined and not get too cocky or complacent in the final third. If Sega and Anibaba get caught up field hunting for goals and someone is dispossessed, this is where TFC will look to pounce and punt one onto the wing. As they did last time out, the Fire back line must keep their shape and be aware of their positioning relative to one another. And SeanJ’s got to be on point as well. No more of this “bumbling” and “fumbling” nonsense, right kid? After all, you’re world-class now. Play like it.
#3 Will Chicago fans get a look at new Fireman Wells Thompson tonight?
Ummm, I doubt it.
The guy just arrived on Monday for crying out loud. His boots aren’t even broken in yet. That said, Wells is known to maintain a close relationship with a certain Someone who is rumored to be able to make the impossible possible, so who knows.
#4 Will El Capitan Logan “Wolverine” Pause get his first league start in a month?
Like our wager on this game,
we’ll bet the farm on yes .
Predictions
Fire win 2-0 on goals from Chris Rolfe and Sir Sherjill MacDonald
Partick Nyarko gets one assist
For the second consecutive match Alex will see the pitch, be awesome, and bag an assist
Although Pause returns, look for @PaladiniXI to get some p.t.
Sadly, Paul Mariner sports a new pair of specs, relinquishing the old taped ones he wore last time out vs. SKC
Finally, it’s difficult to make a prediction about TFC’s play because
On The Fire
doesn’t pay attention to their reserve matches. Okay, we’ll give it a go: the Reds will pack the back, play uninspiring, ugly soccer, and generally suck balls. There you have it folks.
Chicago takes home three points and sole possession of second place in the Eastern Conference.
**Chicago Fire at Toronto FC: Wednesday 9.12 at 6pm CDT on NBC Nonstop 5.2 and
MLS Live **
#3pts!
Share this: Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window) Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window) More Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window) Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window) Click to print (Opens in new window) Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window) Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window) Click to share on Pocket (Opens in new window) Like this: Like
Loading...
Related
Post navigation
←
Know Your Enemy: Toronto FC
Dispatch from the Couch: Fire at Toronto FC
→
2 thoughts on “ Prime Your Fire Pump: Chicago at Toronto FC ”
Esteban
says:
September 12, 2012 at 11:25 am
I think the Wells Thompson signing is a smart one. He add roster depth, works super hard and gives Klopas some tactical flexibility. Chicago could go 4-2-3-1 with Nyarko, Fernandez and Rolfe (Paladini an option here too) behind MacDonald and in front of Pardo and Pause. Thompson replaces Fernandez or Nyarko or Paladini late for fresh legs if Chicago is winning. Oduro comes on if Chicago is behind.
Nonetheless, I don’t think he’ll have a big impact unless there’s an injury.
Reply
Man On The Fire
says:
September 12, 2012 at 11:53 am
Dear Esteban,
Yes, you are indeed wise beyond your years sir. This is what Frankie K. has in mind we think.
Yours in soccer,
Scott
Reply
What do you think?
Cancel reply
Enter your comment here...
Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:
Email
(required)
(Address never made public)
Name
(required)
Website
You are commenting using your WordPress.com account.
(  Log Out  /  Change  )
You are commenting using your Twitter account.
(  Log Out  /  Change  )
You are commenting using your Facebook account.
(  Log Out  /  Change  )
You are commenting using your Google+ account.
(  Log Out  /  Change  )
Cancel
Connecting to %s
Notify me of new comments via email.
Notify me of new posts via email.
"The ball is round. The game lasts ninety minutes. This much is fact. Everything else is theory."
Drink at RIPH in Blue Island
OTF Soccer is:
a1exwhite
Austin Fido
Brian Howe Battle
Cory Jensen
Jon Denham
James Vlahakis
Joe Maskivish
Juan Santoliva
Lucas Hammer
Scott Fenwick
Nick Fox
Ricardo Ortiz
Rob Thompson
Robert Suarez
Sam Fels
Shane Nicholson
Stephen Mangat
George Gorecki
T.J. Zaremba
Vadim Furmanov Top Posts & Pages 2016 Copa America: 12 Stadiums That Should Host Copa Centenario
The Black Out Continues: Chicago Fire Supporters to Stay in Black
The Very Best of El Chelis
The "Sting" In My Heart
Who is the Next Chicago Fire Coach?
8/22/15: Fire Fans' Action Plan
Trash Talk Fridays: Fire at Philadelphia Union
Robbie Rogers: Getting a Deal Done
OTF Roundtable: Chicago Fire Bye Week Special
Know Your Enemy: Toronto FC
Articles
A Chicago Futbol Life
Chicago Fire
Chicago Fire Breakdown
Chicago Fire Fluff
Chicago Fire Front Office
Chicago Fire Match Previews
Chicago Fire Match Reviews
Chicago Fire Player Profiles
Chicago Fire Power Rankings
Chicago Fire Preseason
Chicago Fire Training Notes
Chicago Red Stars
Chicago Soccer History
Concacaf Champions League
Concacaf Gold Cup
Concacaf U20 Championship
Concacaf World Cup Qualifiers
Editorial/Opinon
Essays
Inside the Fire
Know Your Enemy
Major League Soccer
MLS Cup Playoffs
Monday Musings
NASL
OTF Roundtables
Saints' March: Saint Louis FC Soccer Update
Trash Talk Fridays
U.S. Men's National Team
U.S. Open Cup
Uncategorized
US Open Cup
USL
USMNT
Womens World Cup 2015
World Cup 2014
OTF Soccer on Twitter
Nigeria just put 2 on Brazil in one minute. Should make for an interesting game now. U-17 World Cup.
#U17WC
1 hour ago
#TFC
Supporter Chant Suggestion -
youtube.com/watch?v=eHtuOg…
#MTLvTOR
#MLS
2 days ago
I still know very little of what
#MTLvTOR
announcers are saying, but I wonder what a Spanish-language Ed Farmer would sound like.
#MTLvTOR
2 days ago
Follow @OTFSoccer Alajuelense
Alex
Alvaro Fernandez
Andrew Hauptman
Argentina
Arne Friedrich
Austin Berry
Bakary Soumare
Benji Joya
Brasil 2014
Brazil
Brazil 2014
CCL 2014-15 group stage
cf97
Chicago Fire
Chicago Fire Soccer
Chivas USA
Chris Rolfe
Club America
Columbus Crew
CONCACAF
Cruz Azul
D.C. United
DailyCupCheck
Dan Gargan
Daniel Paladini
DC United
Dilly Duka
Dominic Oduro
El Tri
Frank Klopas
Frank Yallop
Germany
Ghana
Gonzalo Segares
Harry Shipp
Houston Dynamo
Jalil Anibaba
Jeff Larentowicz
Joel Lindpere
Jozy Altidore
Juan Luis Anangono
Jurgen Klinsmann
LA Galaxy
Landon Donovan
Logan Pause
Los Catrachos
Los Ticos
Major League Soccer
Marco Pappa
Michael Bradley
Mike Magee
MLS
MLS Playoff Race
Montreal Impact
New England Revolution
New York Red Bulls
Patrick Nyarko
Pavel Pardo
Philadelphia Union
Portland Timbers
Portugal
Quincy Amarikwa
Real Salt Lake
San Jose Earthquakes
Sean Johnson
Seattle Sounders
Sherjill MacDonald
Sporting Kansas City
Toronto FC
U.S. Open Cup
USMNT
Vancouver Whitecaps
World Cup 2014
WorldCupPreviews Archives
October 2015
September 2015
August 2015
July 2015
June 2015
May 2015
April 2015
March 2015
February 2015
January 2015
December 2014
October 2014
September 2014
August 2014
July 2014
June 2014
May 2014
April 2014
March 2014
February 2014
January 2014
December 2013
November 2013
October 2013
September 2013
August 2013
July 2013
June 2013
May 2013
April 2013
March 2013
February 2013
January 2013
December 2012
November 2012
October 2012
September 2012
August 2012
July 2012
Blog at WordPress.com .
|
The Pinboard Theme . Design by
Themify .
Follow
Follow “OTF Soccer”
Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.
Join 1,248 other followers
Build a website with WordPress.com
Send to Email Address
Your Name
Your Email Address
Cancel
Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
%d
bloggers like this: