Body and Health
Body and Health
Friday, October 29, 2010
SKELETON
Human Skeleton
The  human skeleton  consists of 206 bones. We are actually born with more bones (about 300), but many fuse together as a child grows up. These bones support your body and allow you to move. Bones contain a lot of  calcium  (an element found in milk, broccoli, and other foods). Bones manufacture blood cells and store important minerals.
The longest bone in our bodies is the  femur  (thigh bone). The smallest bone is the  stirrup bone inside the ear . Each hand has 26 bones in it. Your nose and ears are not made of bone; they are made of cartilage, a flexible substance that is not as hard as bone.
Joints : Bones are connected to other bones at joints. There are many different types of joints, including: fixed joints (such as in the skull, which consists of many bones), hinged joints (such as in the fingers and toes), and ball-and-socket joints (such as the shoulders and hips).
Differences in males and females : Males and females have slightly different skeletons, including a different elbow angle. Males have slightly thicker and longer legs and arms; females have a wider pelvis and a larger space within the pelvis, through which babies travel when they are born.
Skin
Skin is a soft outer covering of an animal, in particular a vertebrate. Other  animal coverings  such as the  arthropod exoskeleton  or the seashell  have different  developmental origin , structure and chemical composition. The adjective cutaneous literally means "of the skin" (from Latin  cutis , skin). In  mammals , the skin is the largest  organ  of the  integumentary system  made up of multiple layers of  ectodermal tissue , and guards the underlying  muscles ,  bones ,  ligaments  and  internal organs . [ 1 ]  Skin of a different nature exists in  amphibians , reptiles , and  birds . [ 2 ]  All mammals have some hair on their skin, even  marine mammals  which appear to be hairless. Because it interfaces with the environment, skin plays a key role in protecting (the body) against  pathogens [ 3 ]  and excessive water loss. [ 4 ]  Its other functions are  insulation ,  temperature  regulation, sensation, and the protection of  vitamin B  folates. Severely damaged skin will try to heal by forming scar tissue . This is often discolored and depigmented. Hair with sufficient density is called  fur . The fur mainly serves to augment the insulation the skin provides, but can also serve as a secondary sexual characteristic  or as  camouflage . On some animals, the skin is very hard and thick, and can be processed to create leather .  Reptiles  and  fish  have hard protective scales on their skin for protection, and  birds  have hard feathers, all made of tough β- keratins .  Amphibian  skin is not a strong barrier to passage of chemicals and is often subject to  osmosis . A  frog  sitting in an  anesthetic solution could quickly go to sleep.                                          Muscle & Joint Support   Muscle & Joint Support  capsules are specially formulated for pets and contain a unique formula combining herbal medicines, biochemic tissue salts and nutritional substances all well known for their positive effect on the skeletal system, including muscles, joints, cartilage and tendons. Muscle & Joint Support is a 100% natural remedy. Regular use will help to maintain health and mobility  in the muscular skeletal system without the risk of side effects. Muscle & Joint Support  is an excellent choice for pets — helping to keep a spring in their step! Freedom to move! Joints are the areas where two bones meet. Joints  allow all your pet's limbs to move in many different ways  — to bend and be flexible, as well as to perform everyday actions such as walking, sitting, jumping and running. Without joints, your pet's skeleton would be stiff and inflexible and movement would be virtually impossible! All joints are cushioned by a substance called cartilage.  Cartilage acts as a 'shock absorber'  to prevent the bones in the joints from grinding together and wearing down. There is also a certain amount of fluid present in joints to keep them well-oiled and free moving. The natural way In the course of every day activities,  joints are subject to a great deal of strain and stress.  While they are designed to cope with this, it also makes sense to do all we can to keep your pet's joints in tip top form and to  support joint health and movement . The best way to do this is to maintain a healthy lifestyle, including a diet high in essential nutrients and low in processed foods, additives and sugar.  Regular moderate exercise  rather than sudden bouts of activity will also help to keep joints in good shape. Nutrition is a key element in the promotion of healthy joints and muscles — as well as for  promoting the integrity of the entire skeletal system. As part of a holistic approach to treating your pet, natural remedies can help to support a healthy immune system, encourage systemic cleansing (important for healthy joints and muscles), support strength in the skeletal system and generally support the overall health of your animal. Natural remedies have been used for hundreds of years in traditional medicine to  support joint and muscle health and to keep joints moving  as they should. Other components of a holistic approach, especially in relation to the joints and skeletal system, include aromatherapy, acupuncture and chiropractic — all of which lend themselves well to maintaining pet health.                                                                  Living things must be capable of transporting nutrients, wastes and gases to and from cells. Single-celled organisms use their cell surface as a point of exchange with the outside environment. Multicellular organisms have developed transport and circulatory systems to deliver oxygen and food to cells and remove carbon dioxide and metabolic wastes. Sponges are the simplest animals, yet even they have a transport system. Seawater is the medium of transport and is propelled in and out of the sponge by ciliary action. Simple animals, such as the hydra and planaria, lack specialized organs such as hearts and blood vessels, instead using their skin as an exchange point for materials. This, however, limits the size an animal can attain. To become larger, they need specialized organs and organ systems.
Structures that serve some of the functions of the circulatory system in animals that lack the system.
Multicellular animals do not have most of their cells in contact with the external environment and so have developed circulatory systems to transport nutrients, oxygen, carbon dioxide and metabolic wastes. Components of the circulatory system include
blood: a connective tissue of liquid plasma and cells
heart: a muscular pump to move the blood
blood vessels: arteries, capillaries and veins that deliver blood to all tissues
There are several types of circulatory systems. The  open circulatory system  is common to molluscs and arthropods. Open circulatory systems (evolved in insects, mollusks and other invertebrates) pump blood into a hemocoel with the blood diffusing back to the circulatory system between cells. Blood is pumped by a heart into the body cavities, where tissues are surrounded by the blood. The resulting blood flow is sluggish.
Circulatory systems of an insect (top) and mollusc (bottom).
Details of the circulatory system of an insect.
Vertebrates, and a few invertebrates, have a  closed circulatory system . Closed circulatory systems (evolved in echinoderms and vertebrates) have the blood closed at all times within vessels of different size and wall thickness. In this type of system, blood is pumped by a heart through vessels, and does not normally fill body cavities. Blood flow is not sluggish.  Hemoglobin  causes vertebrate blood to turn red in the presence of oxygen; but more importantly hemoglobin molecules in blood cells transport oxygen. The human closed circulatory system is sometimes called the cardiovascular system.
The circulatory system of an earthworm.
A secondary circulatory system, the  lymphatic circulation , collects fluid and cells and returns them to the cardiovascular system.
Vertebrate Cardiovascular System  |  Back to Top The vertebrate cardiovascular system includes a heart, which is a muscular pump that contracts to propel blood out to the body through arteries, and a series of blood vessels. The upper chamber of the heart, the  atrium  (pl. atria), is where the blood enters the heart. Passing through a valve, blood enters the lower chamber, the  ventricle . Contraction of the ventricle forces blood from the heart through an  artery . The heart muscle is composed of cardiac muscle cells.
The basic circulatory patterns of blood flow in a mammal.  The above image is from
Arteries are blood vessels that carry blood away from heart. Arterial walls are able to expand and contract. Arteries have three layers of thick walls. Smooth muscle fibers contract, another layer of connective tissue is quite elastic, allowing the arteries to carry blood under high pressure.
Structure of an artery.
The  aorta  is the main artery leaving the heart. The  pulmonary artery  is the only artery that carries oxygen-poor blood. The pulmonary artery carries deoxygenated blood to the lungs. In the lungs, gas exchange occurs, carbon dioxide diffuses out, oxygen diffuses in.  Arterioles  are small arteries that connect larger arteries with  capillaries . Small arterioles branch into collections of capillaries known as capillary beds.
Structure and blood flow through a vein.  The above illustration is from  http://www.prs.k12.nj.us/schools/PHS/Science_Dept/APBio/pic/capillary.gif .
Capillary with Red Blood Cell (TEM x32,830).
Capillaries are thin-walled blood vessels in which gas exchange occurs. In the capillary, the wall is only one cell layer thick. Capillaries are concentrated into  capillary beds . Some capillaries have small pores between the cells of the capillary wall, allowing materials to flow in and out of capillaries as well as the passage of white blood cells. Nutrients, wastes, and hormones are exchanged across the thin walls of capillaries. Capillaries are microscopic in size, although blushing is one manifestation of blood flow into capillaries. Control of blood flow into capillary beds is done by nerve-controlled sphincters.
Changes in blood pressure, velocity, and the area of the arteries, capillaries, and veins of the circulatory system.
The circulatory system functions in the delivery of oxygen, nutrient molecules, and hormones and the removal of carbon dioxide, ammonia and other metabolic wastes. Capillaries are the points of exchange between the blood and surrounding tissues. Materials cross in and out of the capillaries by passing through or between the cells that line the capillary.
Capillary structure.
The extensive network of capillaries in the human body is estimated at between 50,000 and 60,000 miles long. Thoroughfare channels allow blood to bypass a capillary bed. These channels can open and close by the action of muscles that control blood flow through the channels.
Capillary beds and their feeder vessels.
Blood leaving the capillary beds flows into a progressively larger series of venules that in turn join to form veins.  Veins  carry blood from capillaries to the heart. With the exception of the pulmonary veins , blood in veins is oxygen-poor. The pulmonary veins carry oxygenated blood from lungs back to the heart.  Venules  are smaller veins that gather blood from capillary beds into veins. Pressure in veins is low, so veins depend on nearby muscular contractions to move blood along. The veins have valves that prevent back-flow of blood.
Structure of a vein (top) and the actions of muscles to propel blood through the veins.
Ventricular contraction propels blood into arteries under great pressure. Blood pressure is measured in mm of mercury; healthy young adults should have pressure of ventricular systole of 120mm, and 80 mm at ventricular diastole. Higher pressures (human 120/80 as compared to a 12/1 in lobsters) mean the volume of blood circulates faster (20 seconds in humans, 8 minutes in lobsters).
As blood gets farther from the heart, the pressure likewise decreases. Each contraction of the ventricles sends pressure through the arteries. Elasticity of lungs helps keep pulmonary pressures low.
Systemic pressure is sensed by receptors in the arteries and atria. Nerve messages from these sensors communicate conditions to the  medulla  in the brain. Signals from the medulla regulate blood pressure.
Vertebrate Vascular Systems  |  Back to Top Humans, birds, and mammals have a 4-chambered heart that completely separates oxygen-rich and oxygen-depleted blood. Fish have a 2-chambered heart in which a single-loop circulatory pattern takes blood from the heart to the gills and then to the body. Amphibians have a 3-chambered heart with two atria and one ventricle. A loop from the heart goes to the pulmonary capillary beds, where gas exchange occurs. Blood then is returned to the heart. Blood exiting the ventricle is diverted, some to the  pulmonary circuit , some to  systemic circuit . The disadvantage of the three-chambered heart is the mixing of oxygenated and deoxygenated blood. Some reptiles have partial separation of the ventricle. Other reptiles, plus, all birds and mammals, have a 4-chambered heart, with complete separation of both systemic and pulmonary circuits.
Circulatory systems of several vertebrates showing the progressive evolution of the four-chambered heart and pulmonary and systemic circulatory circuits.
The Heart  |  Back to Top The heart is a muscular structure that contracts in a rhythmic pattern to pump blood. Hearts have a variety of forms: chambered hearts in mollusks and vertebrates, tubular hearts of arthropods, and aortic arches of annelids. Accessory hearts are used by insects to boost or supplement the main heart's actions. Fish, reptiles, and amphibians have lymph hearts  that help pump  lymph  back into veins.
The basic vertebrate heart, such as occurs in fish, has two chambers. An  auricle  is the chamber of the heart where blood is received from the body. A ventricle pumps the blood it gets through a valve from the auricle out to the gills through an artery.
Amphibians have a three-chambered heart: two atria emptying into a single common ventricle. Some species have a partial separation of the ventricle to reduce the mixing of oxygenated (coming back from the lungs) and deoxygenated blood (coming in from the body). Two sided or two chambered hearts permit pumping at higher pressures and the addition of the pulmonary loop permits blood to go to the lungs at lower pressure yet still go to the systemic loop at higher pressures.
The relationship of the heart and circulatory system to major visceral organs. Below: the structure of the heart.
Establishment of the four-chambered heart, along with the pulmonary and systemic circuits, completely separates oxygenated from deoxygenated blood. This allows higher the metabolic rates needed by warm-blooded birds and mammals.
The human heart is a two-sided, 4 chambered structure with muscular walls. An  atrioventricular (AV) valve  separates each auricle from ventricle. A  semilunar (also known as arterial) valve  separates each ventricle from its connecting artery.
The heart beats or contracts 70 times per minute. The human heart will undergo over 3 billion contraction cycles during a normal lifetime. The  cardiac cycle  consists of two parts:  systole  (contraction of the heart muscle) and  diastole  (relaxation of the heart muscle). Atria contract while ventricles relax. The pulse is a wave of contraction transmitted along the arteries. Valves in the heart open and close during the cardiac cycle. Heart muscle contraction is due to the presence of nodal tissue in two regions of the heart. The  SA node (sinoatrial node)  initiates heartbeat. The  AV node (atrioventricular node)  causes ventricles to contract. The AV node is sometimes called the pacemaker since it keeps heartbeat regular. Heartbeat is also controlled by the autonomic nervous system.
The cardiac cycle.  Image from Purves et al.,  Life: The Science of Biology , 4th Edition, by Sinauer Associates ( www.sinauer.com ) and WH Freeman ( www.whfreeman.com ), used with permission.
Blood flows through the heart from veins to atria to ventricles out by arteries. Heart valves limit flow to a single direction. One heartbeat, or cardiac cycle, includes atrial contraction and relaxation, ventricular contraction and relaxation, and a short pause. Normal cardiac cycles (at rest) take 0.8 seconds. Blood from the body flows into the vena cava, which empties into the right atrium. At the same time, oxygenated blood from the lungs flows from the pulmonary vein into the left atrium. The muscles of both atria contract, forcing blood downward through each AV valve into each ventricle.
Diastole is the filling of the ventricles with blood. Ventricular systole opens the SL valves, forcing blood out of the ventricles through the pulmonary artery or aorta. The sound of the heart contracting and the valves opening and closing produces a characteristic "lub-dub" sound. Lub is associated with closure of the AV valves, dub is the closing of the SL valves.
Human heartbeats originate from the sinoatrial node (SA node) near the right atrium. Modified muscle cells contract, sending a signal to other muscle cells in the heart to contract. The signal spreads to the atrioventricular node (AV node). Signals carried from the AV node, slightly delayed, through bundle of His fibers and Purkinjie fibers cause the ventricles to contract simultaneously.
The contraction of the heart and the action of the nerve nodes located on the heart.  Images from Purves et al.,  Life: The Science of Biology , 4th Edition, by Sinauer Associates ( www.sinauer.com ) and WH Freeman ( www.whfreeman.com ), used with permission.
An electrocardiogram (ECG) measures changes in electrical potential across the heart, and can detect the contraction pulses that pass over the surface of the heart. There are three slow, negative changes, known as P, R, and T. Positive deflections are the Q and S waves. The P wave represents the contraction impulse of the atria, the T wave the ventricular contraction. ECGs are useful in diagnosing heart abnormalities.
Normal cardiac pattern (top) and some abnormal patterns (bottom).
Diseases of the Heart and Cardiovascular System Cardiac muscle cells are serviced by a system of  coronary arteries . During exercise the flow through these arteries is up to five times normal flow. Blocked flow in coronary arteries can result in death of heart muscle, leading to a heart attack.
Blockage of coronary arteries is usually the result of gradual buildup of lipids and cholesterol in the inner wall of the coronary artery. Occasional chest pain, angina pectoralis, can result during periods of stress or physical exertion.  Angina  indicates oxygen demands are greater than capacity to deliver it and that a heart attack may occur in the future. Heart muscle cells that die are not replaced: heart muscle cells do not divide. Heart disease and coronary artery disease are the leading causes of death in the US.
[Karl Note:  The description of "plaque" here is, of course, completely false.  Click here  for the entire story!]
Development of arterial plaque.  Images from Purves et al.,  Life: The Science of Biology , 4th Edition, by Sinauer Associates ( www.sinauer.com ) and WH Freeman ( www.whfreeman.com ), used with permission.
Hypertension , high blood pressure (the silent killer), occurs when blood pressure is consistently above 140/90. Causes in most cases are unknown, although stress, obesity, high salt intake, and smoking can add to a genetic predisposition.
The Vascular System  |  Back to Top Two main routes for circulation are the pulmonary (to and from the lungs) and the systemic (to and from the body). Pulmonary arteries carry blood from the heart to the lungs. In the lungs gas exchange occurs. Pulmonary veins carry blood from lungs to heart. The aorta is the main artery of systemic circuit. The vena cavae are the main veins of the systemic circuit.  Coronary arteries  deliver oxygenated blood, food, etc. to the heart. Animals often have a  portal system , which begins and ends in capillaries, such as between the digestive tract and the liver.
Fish pump blood from the heart to their gills, where gas exchange occurs, and then on to the rest of the body. Mammals pump blood to the lungs for gas exchange, then back to the heart for pumping out to the systemic circulation. Blood flow is only one directional.
Blood  |  Back to Top Plasma  is the liquid component of the blood. Mammalian blood consists of a liquid (plasma) and a number of cellular and cell fragment components. Plasma is about 60 % of a volume of blood; cells and fragments are 40%. Plasma has 90% water and 10% dissolved materials including proteins, glucose, ions, hormones, and gases. It acts as a buffer, maintaining pH near 7.4. Plasma contains nutrients, wastes, salts, proteins, etc. Proteins in the blood aid in transport of large molecules such as cholesterol.
Red blood cells , also known as  erythrocytes , are flattened, doubly concave cells about 7 µm in diameter that carry oxygen associated in the cell's hemoglobin. Mature erythrocytes lack a nucleus. They are small, 4 to 6 million cells per cubic millimeter of blood, and have 200 million hemoglobin molecules per cell. Humans have a total of 25 trillion (about 1/3 of all the cells in the body). Red blood cells are continuously manufactured in red marrow of long bones, ribs, skull, and vertebrae. Life-span of an erythrocyte is only 120 days, after which they are destroyed in liver and spleen. Iron from hemoglobin is recovered and reused by red marrow. The liver degrades the heme units and secretes them as pigment in the bile, responsible for the color of feces. Each second 2 million red blood cells are produced to replace those taken out of circulation.
White blood cells , also known as  leukocytes , are larger than erythrocytes, have a nucleus, and lack hemoglobin. They function in the cellular immune response. White blood cells (leukocytes) are less than 1% of the blood's volume. They are made from stem cells in bone marrow. There are five types of leukocytes, important components of the immune system. Neutrophils enter the tissue fluid by squeezing through capillary walls and phagocytozing foreign substances.  Macrophages  release white blood cell growth factors, causing a population increase for white blood cells.  Lymphocytes  fight infection.  T-cells  attack cells containing viruses.  B-cells  produce  antibodies . Antigen-antibody complexes are phagocytized by a macrophage. White blood cells can squeeze through pores in the capillaries and fight infectious diseases in interstitial areas
Platelets  result from cell fragmentation and are involved with clotting. Platelets are cell fragments that bud off megakaryocytes in bone marrow. They carry chemicals essential to blood clotting. Platelets survive for 10 days before being removed by the liver and spleen. There are 150,000 to 300,000 platelets in each milliliter of blood. Platelets stick and adhere to tears in blood vessels; they also release clotting factors. A hemophiliac's blood cannot clot. Providing correct proteins (clotting factors) has been a common method of treating hemophiliacs. It has also led to HIV transmission due to the use of transfusions and use of contaminated blood products.
Human Red Blood Cells, Platelets and T-lymphocyte ( erythocytes  = red;  platelets  = yellow;  T-lymphocyte  = light green) (SEM x 9,900).
The formation and actions of blood clots.
Blood Clot Formation ( blood cells ,  platelets ,  fibrin clot ) (SEM x10,980)
The Lymphatic System  |  Back to Top Water and plasma are forced from the capillaries into intracellular spaces. This interstitial fluid transports materials between cells. Most of this fluid is collected in the capillaries of a secondary circulatory system, the lymphatic system. Fluid in this system is known as lymph.
Lymph flows from small lymph capillaries into lymph vessels that are similar to veins in having valves that prevent backflow. Lymph vessels connect to lymph nodes, lymph organs, or to the cardiovascular system at the thoracic duct and right lymphatic duct.
Lymph nodes are small irregularly shaped masses through which lymph vessels flow. Clusters of nodes occur in the armpits, groin, and neck. Cells of the  immune system line channels through the nodes and attack bacteria and viruses traveling in the lymph.
Human brain From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia This article is about features specific to the human brain. For basic information about brains, see  brain . Illustration of the human brain and skull The human brain is the center of the human  nervous system . Enclosed in the  cranium , it has the same general structure as the brains of other  mammals , but is over three times as large as the brain of a typical mammal with an equivalent body size. [ 1 ]  Most of the expansion comes from the  cerebral cortex , a convoluted layer of neural tissue that covers the surface of the  forebrain . Especially expanded are the  frontal lobes , which are associated with  executive functions  such as self-control, planning, reasoning, and abstract thought. The portion of the brain devoted to vision is also greatly enlarged in human beings. Brain evolution, from the earliest  shrewlike  mammals through  primates  to  hominids , is marked by a steady increase in  encephalization , or the ratio of brain to body size. The human brain has been estimated to contain 50–100 billion (10 11 )  neurons , of which about 10 billion (10 10 ) are cortical pyramidal cells . These cells pass signals to each other via as many as 1000 trillion (10 15 ) synaptic connections. [ 2 ] The brain monitors and regulates the body's actions and reactions. It continuously receives sensory information, and rapidly analyzes this data and then responds, controlling bodily actions and functions. The  brainstem  controls breathing, heart rate, and other  autonomic  processes that are independent of conscious brain functions. The  neocortex  is the center of higher-order thinking, learning, and memory. The  cerebellum is responsible for the body's balance, posture, and the coordination of movement. In spite of the fact that it is protected by the thick bones of the skull, suspended in  cerebrospinal fluid , and isolated from the bloodstream by the  blood-brain barrier , the delicate nature of the human brain makes it susceptible to many types of damage and disease. The most common forms of physical damage are  closed head injuries  such as a blow to the head, a  stroke , or poisoning by a wide variety of chemicals that can act as  neurotoxins . Infection of the brain is rare because of the barriers that protect it, but is very serious when it occurs. The human brain is also susceptible to degenerative disorders, such as  Parkinson's disease ,  multiple sclerosis , and  Alzheimer's disease . A number of psychiatric conditions, such as  schizophrenia  and  depression , are widely thought to be caused at least partially by brain dysfunctions, although the nature of such brain anomalies is not well understood.
Structure Bisection of the head of an adult man, showing the cerebral cortex and underlying white matter [ 3 ] The adult human brain weighs on average about 3  lb  (1.5  kg ) [ 4 ]  with a  size  (volume) of around 1130  cubic centimetres  (cm 3 ) in women and 1260 cm 3  in men, although there is substantial individual variation. [ 5 ]  Men with the same body height and body surface area as women have on average 100g heavier brains, [ 6 ]  although these differences do not correlate in any simple way with gray matter neuron counts or with overall measures of cognitive performance. [ 7 ]   Neanderthals , an extinct subspecies of modern humans, had larger brains at adulthood than present-day humans. [ 8 ]  The brain is very soft, having a consistency similar to  soft gelatin  or firm  tofu . [ 9 ]  Despite being referred to as "grey matter", the live cortex is pinkish-beige in color and slightly off-white in the interior. At the age of 20, a man has around 176,000 km and a woman about 149,000 km of myelinated axons in their brains. [ 10 ] [ edit ] General features Drawing of the human brain, showing several important structures The cerebral hemispheres form the largest part of the human brain and are situated above most other brain structures. They are covered with a  cortical layer  with a convoluted topography. [ 11 ]  Underneath the cerebrum  lies the  brainstem , resembling a stalk on which the cerebrum is attached. At the rear of the brain, beneath the cerebrum and behind the brainstem, is the  cerebellum , a structure with a horizontally furrowed surface that makes it look different from any other brain area. The same structures are present in other mammals, although the cerebellum is not so large relative to the rest of the brain. As a rule, the smaller the cerebrum, the less convoluted the cortex. The cortex of a rat or mouse is almost completely smooth. The cortex of a dolphin or whale, on the other hand, is more convoluted than the cortex of a human. The dominant feature of the human brain is  corticalization . The cerebral cortex in humans is so large that it overshadows every other part of the brain. A few subcortical structures show alterations reflecting this trend. The cerebellum, for example, has a medial zone connected mainly to subcortical motor areas, and a lateral zone connected primarily to the cortex. In humans the lateral zone takes up a much larger fraction of the cerebellum than in most other mammalian species. Corticalization is reflected in function as well as structure. In a rat, surgical removal of the entire cerebral cortex leaves an animal that is still capable of walking around and interacting with the environment. [ 12 ]  In a human, comparable cerebral cortex damage produces a permanent state of  coma . The amount of association cortex, relative to the other two categories, increases dramatically as one goes from simpler mammals, such as the rat and the cat, to more complex ones, such as the chimpanzee and the human. [ 13 ] Major gyri and sulci on the lateral surface of the cortex The cerebral cortex is essentially a sheet of neural tissue, folded in a way that allows a large surface area to fit within the confines of the skull. Each cerebral hemisphere, in fact, has a total surface area of about 1.3 square feet. [ 14 ]  Anatomists call each cortical fold a  sulcus , and the smooth area between folds a  gyrus . Most human brains show a similar pattern of folding, but there are enough variations in the shape and placement of folds to make every brain unique. Nevertheless, the pattern is consistent enough for each major fold to have a name, for example, the "superior frontal gyrus", "postcentral sulcus", or "trans-occipital sulcus". Deep folding features in brain such as the inter-hemispheric and  lateral fissure , and the  insular cortex  are present in almost all normal subjects. [ edit ] Cortical divisions The four lobes of the cerebral cortex The bones of the human skull [ edit ] Four lobes Outwardly, the cerebral cortex is nearly symmetrical, with left and right hemispheres. Anatomists conventionally divide each hemisphere into four "lobes", the  frontal lobe ,  parietal lobe ,  occipital lobe , and  temporal lobe . This categorization does not actually arise from the structure of the cortex itself: the lobes are named after the bones of the skull that overlie them. There is one exception: the border between the frontal and parietal lobes is shifted backward to the  central sulcus , a deep fold that marks the line where the primary somatosensory cortex and primary motor cortex come together. [ edit ] Functional divisions
This section does not  cite  any  references or sources .
Please help  improve this article  by adding citations to  reliable sources . Unsourced material may be  challenged  and  removed .  (September 2009)
Researchers who study the functions of the cortex divide it into three functional categories of regions, or areas. One consists of the primary sensory areas, which receive signals from the sensory nerves  and tracts by way of relay nuclei in the  thalamus . Primary sensory areas include the visual area of the  occipital lobe , the auditory area in parts of the  temporal lobe  and insular cortex , and the somatosensory area in the  parietal lobe . A second category is the primary motor area, which sends axons down to motor neurons in the brainstem and spinal cord. This area occupies the rear portion of the frontal lobe, directly in front of the somatosensory area. The third category consists of the remaining parts of the cortex, which are called the  association areas . These areas receive input from the sensory areas and lower parts of the brain and are involved in the complex process that we call perception, thought, and decision making. Brodmann's classification of areas of the cortex Different parts of the cerebral cortex are involved in different cognitive and behavioral functions. The differences show up in a number of ways: the effects of localized brain damage, regional activity patterns exposed when the brain is examined using functional imaging techniques, connectivity with subcortical areas, and regional differences in the cellular architecture of the cortex. Anatomists describe most of the cortex—the part they call isocortex —as having six layers, but not all layers are apparent in all areas, and even when a layer is present, its thickness and cellular organization may vary. Several anatomists have  constructed maps of cortical areas  on the basis of variations in the appearance of the layers as seen with a microscope. One of the most widely used schemes came from  Brodmann , who split the cortex into 51 different areas and assigned each a number (anatomists have since subdivided many of the Brodmann areas). For example, Brodmann area 1 is the primary somatosensory cortex, Brodmann area 17 is the primary visual cortex, and Brodmann area 25 is the anterior cingulate cortex. [ edit ] Topography Topography of the primary motor cortex, showing which body part is controlled by each zone Many of the brain areas Brodmann defined have their own complex internal structures. In a number of cases, brain areas are organized into "topographic maps", where adjoining bits of the cortex correspond to adjoining parts of the body, or of some more abstract entity. A simple example of this type of correspondence is the primary motor cortex, a strip of tissue running along the anterior edge of the central sulcus, shown in the image to the right. Motor areas innervating each part of the body arise from a distinct zone, with neighboring body parts represented by neighboring zones. Electrical stimulation of the cortex at any point causes a muscle-contraction in the represented body part. This "somatotopic" representation is not evenly distributed, however. The head, for example, is represented by a region about three times as large as the zone for the entire back and trunk. The size of a zone correlates to the precision of motor control and sensory discrimination possible [ citation needed ] . The areas for the lips, fingers, and tongue are particularly large, considering the proportional size of their represented body parts. In visual areas, the maps are  retinotopic —that is, they reflect the topography of the  retina , the layer of light-activated neurons lining the back of the eye. In this case too the representation is uneven: the  fovea —the area at the center of the visual field—is greatly overrepresented compared to the periphery. The visual circuitry in the human cerebral cortex contains several dozen distinct retinotopic maps, each devoted to analyzing the visual input stream in a particular way [ citation needed ] . The primary visual cortex (Brodmann area 17), which is the main recipient of direct input from the visual part of the thalamus, contains many neurons that are most easily activated by edges with a particular orientation moving across a particular point in the visual field. Visual areas farther downstream extract features such as color, motion, and shape. In auditory areas, the primary map is  tonotopic . Sounds are parsed according to frequency (i.e., high pitch vs. low pitch) by subcortical auditory areas, and this parsing is reflected by the primary auditory zone of the cortex. As with the visual system, there are a number of tonotopic cortical maps, each devoted to analyzing sound in a particular way. Within a topographic map there can sometimes be finer levels of spatial structure. In the primary visual cortex, for example, where the main organization is retinotopic and the main responses are to moving edges, cells that respond to different edge-orientations are spatially segregated from one another [ citation needed ] . [ edit ] Lateralization Main article:  Lateralization of brain function Routing of neural signals from the two eyes to the brain Each hemisphere of the brain interacts primarily with one half of the body, but for reasons that are unclear, the connections are crossed: the left side of the brain interacts with the right side of the body, and vice versa. [ citation needed ]  Motor connections from the brain to the spinal cord, and sensory connections from the spinal cord to the brain, both cross the midline at brainstem levels. Visual input follows a more complex rule: the optic nerves from the two eyes come together at a point called the  optic chiasm , and half of the fibers from each nerve split off to join the other. The result is that connections from the left half of the retina, in both eyes, go to the left side of the brain, whereas connections from the right half of the retina go to the right side of the brain. Because each half of the retina receives light coming from the opposite half of the visual field, the functional consequence is that visual input from the left side of the world goes to the right side of the brain, and vice versa. Thus, the right side of the brain receives somatosensory input from the left side of the body, and visual input from the left side of the visual field—an arrangement that presumably is helpful for visuomotor coordination. The corpus callosum, a nerve bundle connecting the two cerebral hemispheres, with the  lateral ventricles  directly below The two cerebral hemispheres are connected by a very large nerve bundle called the  corpus callosum , which crosses the midline above the level of the thalamus. There are also two much smaller connections, the  anterior commisure  and hippocampal commisure, as well as many subcortical connections that cross the midline. The corpus callosum is the main avenue of communication between the two hemispheres, though. It connects each point on the cortex to the mirror-image point in the opposite hemisphere, and also connects to functionally related points in different cortical areas. In most respects, the left and right sides of the brain are symmetrical in terms of function. For example, the counterpart of the left-hemisphere motor area controlling the right hand is the right-hemisphere area controlling the left hand. There are, however, several very important exceptions, involving language and spatial cognition. In most people, the left hemisphere is "dominant" for language: a stroke that damages a key language area in the left hemisphere can leave the victim unable to speak or understand, whereas equivalent damage to the right hemisphere would cause only minor impairment to language skills. A substantial part of our current understanding of the interactions between the two hemispheres has come from the study of " split-brain  patients"—people who underwent surgical transection of the corpus callosum in an attempt to reduce the severity of epileptic seizures. These patients do not show unusual behavior that is immediately obvious, but in some cases can behave almost like two different people in the same body, with the right hand taking an action and then the left hand undoing it. Most such patients, when briefly shown a picture on the right side of the point of visual fixation, are able to describe it verbally, but when the picture is shown on the left, are unable to describe it, but may be able to give an indication with the left hand of the nature of the object shown. It should be noted that the differences between left and right hemispheres are greatly overblown in much of the popular literature on this topic. The existence of differences has been solidly established, but many popular books go far beyond the evidence in attributing features of personality or intelligence to the left or right hemisphere dominance. [ citation needed ] [ edit ] Development Main article:  Neural development in humans During the first 3 weeks of gestation, the human embryo's  ectoderm  forms a thickened strip called the  neural plate . The  neural plate  then folds and closes to form the  neural tube . This tube flexes as it grows, forming the crescent-shaped cerebral hemispheres at the head, and the cerebellum and pons towards the tail.
Brain of human embryo at 4.5 weeks, showing interior of forebrain
Brain interior at 5 weeks
Brain viewed at midline at 3 months
[ edit ] Sources of information Neuroscientists , along with researchers from allied disciplines, study how the human brain works. Such research has expanded considerably in recent decades. The " Decade of the Brain ", an initiative of the United States Government in the 1990s, is considered to have marked much of this increase in research. [ 15 ] Information about the structure and function of the human brain comes from a variety of experimental methods. Most information about the cellular components of the brain and how they work comes from studies of animal subjects, using techniques described in the  brain  article. Some techniques, however, are used mainly in humans, and therefore are described here. Computed tomography  of human brain, from  base of the skull  to top, taken with intravenous contrast medium [ edit ] EEG By placing electrodes on the scalp it is possible to record the summed electrical activity of the cortex, in a technique known as  electroencephalography  (EEG). [ 16 ]  EEG measures mass changes in population synaptic activity from the cerebral cortex, but can only detect changes over large areas of the brain, with very little sensitivity for sub-cortical activity. EEG recordings can detect events lasting only a few thousandths of a second. EEG recordings have good temporal resolution, but poor spatial resolution. [ edit ] MEG Apart from measuring the electric field around the skull it is possible to measure the magnetic field directly in a technique known as  magnetoencephalography  (MEG). [ 17 ]  This technique has the same temporal resolution as EEG but much better spatial resolution, although not as good as  Magnetic Resonance Imaging  (MRI). The greatest disadvantage of MEG is that, because the magnetic fields generated by neural activity are very weak, the method is only capable of picking up signals from near the surface of the cortex, and even then, only neurons located in the depths of cortical folds ( sulci ) have dendrites oriented in a way that gives rise to detectable magnetic fields outside the skull. [ edit ] Structural and functional imaging Main article:  Neuroimaging A scan of the brain using fMRI There are several methods for detecting brain activity changes by three-dimensional imaging of local changes in blood flow. The older methods are  SPECT and  PET , which depend on injection of radioactive tracers into the bloodstream. The newest method,  functional magnetic resonance imaging  (fMRI), has considerably better spatial resolution and involves no radioactivity. [ 18 ]  Using the most powerful magnets currently available, fMRI can localize brain activity changes to regions as small as one cubic millimeter. The downside is that the temporal resolution is poor: when brain activity increases, the blood flow response is delayed by 1–5 seconds and lasts for at least 10 seconds. Thus, fMRI is a very useful tool for learning which brain regions are involved in a given behavior, but gives little information about the temporal dynamics of their responses. A major advantage for fMRI is that, because it is non-invasive, it can readily be used on human subjects. [ edit ] Effects of brain damage Main article:  Neuropsychology A key source of information about the function of brain regions is the effects of damage to them. [ 19 ]  In humans, strokes have long provided a "natural laboratory" for studying the effects of brain damage. Most strokes result from a blood clot lodging in the brain and blocking the local blood supply, causing damage or destruction of nearby brain tissue: the range of possible blockages is very wide, leading to a great diversity of stroke symptoms. Analysis of strokes is limited by the fact that damage often crosses into multiple regions of the brain, not along clear-cut borders, making it difficult to draw firm conclusions. [ edit ] Language Location of two brain areas that play a critical role in language,  Broca's area  and  Wernicke's area In human beings, it is the left hemisphere that usually contains the specialized language areas. While this holds true for 97% of right-handed people, about 19% of left-handed people have their language areas in the right hemisphere and as many as 68% of them have some language abilities in both the left and the right hemisphere. [ citation needed ]  The two hemispheres are thought to contribute to the processing and understanding of language: the left hemisphere processes the  linguistic meaning  of  prosody  (or, the rhythm, stress, and intonation of  connected speech ), while the right hemisphere processes the emotions conveyed by prosody. [ 20 ]  Studies of children have shown that if a child has damage to the left hemisphere, the child may develop language in the right hemisphere instead. The younger the child, the better the recovery. So, although the "natural" tendency is for language to develop on the left, human brains are capable of adapting to difficult circumstances, if the damage occurs early enough. The first language area within the left hemisphere to be discovered is  Broca's area , named after  Paul Broca , who discovered the area while studying patients with  aphasia , a language disorder. Broca's area doesn't just handle getting language out in a motor sense, though. It seems to be more generally involved in the ability to process grammar itself, at least the more complex aspects of grammar. For example, it handles distinguishing a sentence in passive form from a simpler subject-verb-object sentence — the difference between "The boy was hit by the girl" and "The girl hit the boy." The second language area to be discovered is called  Wernicke's area , after  Carl Wernicke , a German neurologist who discovered the area while studying patients who had similar symptoms to Broca's area patients but damage to a different part of their brain.  Wernicke's aphasia  is the term for the disorder occurring upon damage to a patient's Wernicke's area. Wernicke's aphasia does not only affect speech comprehension. People with Wernicke's aphasia also have difficulty recalling the names of objects, often responding with words that sound similar, or the names of related things, as if they are having a hard time recalling word associations [ citation needed ] . [ edit ] Pathology A human brain showing  frontotemporal lobar degeneration  causing frontotemporal dementia Clinically,  death  is defined as an absence of brain activity as measured by  EEG . Injuries to the brain tend to affect large areas of the organ, sometimes causing major deficits in intelligence, memory, personality, and movement. Head trauma caused, for example, by vehicular or industrial accidents, is a leading cause of death in youth and middle age. In many cases, more damage is caused by resultant  edema  than by the impact itself.  Stroke , caused by the blockage or rupturing of blood vessels in the brain, is another major cause of death from brain damage. Other problems in the brain can be more accurately classified as diseases than as injuries.  Neurodegenerative diseases , such as Alzheimer's disease ,  Parkinson's disease ,  motor neurone disease , and  Huntington's disease  are caused by the gradual death of individual neurons, leading to diminution in movement control, memory, and cognition. Mental disorders , such as  clinical depression ,  schizophrenia ,  bipolar disorder  and  post-traumatic stress disorder  may involve particular patterns of neuropsychological functioning related to various aspects of mental and somatic function. These disorders may be treated by psychotherapy ,  psychiatric medication  or social intervention and personal  recovery  work; the underlying issues and associated prognosis vary significantly between individuals. Some infectious diseases affecting the brain are caused by  viruses  and  bacteria . Infection of the  meninges , the membrane that covers the brain, can lead to  meningitis .  Bovine spongiform encephalopathy  (also known as "mad cow disease") is deadly in  cattle  and humans and is linked to  prions .  Kuru  is a similar prion-borne degenerative brain disease affecting humans. Both are linked to the ingestion of neural tissue, and may explain the tendency in human and some non-human species to avoid  cannibalism . Viral or bacterial causes have been reported in  multiple sclerosis  and  Parkinson's disease , and are established causes of  encephalopathy , and  encephalomyelitis . Many brain disorders are  congenital , occurring during development.  Tay-Sachs disease ,  fragile X syndrome , and  Down syndrome  are all linked to  genetic  and  chromosomal  errors. Many other syndromes, such as the intrinsic  circadian rhythm  disorders, are suspected to be congenital as well. Normal  development  of the brain can be altered by genetic factors,  drug use , nutritional deficiencies , and  infectious diseases  during  pregnancy . Certain brain disorders are treated by  neurosurgeons , while others are treated by  neurologists  and  psychiatrists .                     Minds and Learning
Thought experiments (Gedankenexperimenten) are “facts” in the sense that they have a “real life” correlate in the form of electrochemical activity in the brain. But it is quite obvious that they do not relate to facts “out there”. They are not true statements. But do they lack truth because they do not relate to facts? How are Truth and Fact interrelated? One answer is that Truth pertains to the possibility that an event will occur. If true ? it must occur and if false ? it cannot occur. This is a binary world of extreme existential conditions. Must all possible events occur? Of course not. If they do not occur would they still be true? Must a statement have a real life correlate to be true? Instinctively, the answer is yes. We cannot conceive of a thought divorced from brainwaves. A statement which remains a mere potential seems to exist only in the nether land between truth and falsity. It becomes true only by materializing, by occurring, by matching up with real life. If we could prove that it will never do so, we would have felt justified in classifying it as false. This is the outgrowth of millennia of concrete, Aristotelian logic. Logical statements talk about the world and, therefore, if a statement cannot be shown to relate directly to the world, it is not true. This approach, however, is the outcome of some underlying assumptions: First, that the world is finite and also close to its end. To say that something that did not happen cannot be true is to say that it will never happen (i.e., to say that time and space ? the world ? are finite and are about to end momentarily). Second, truth and falsity are assumed to be mutually exclusive. Quantum and fuzzy logics have long laid this one to rest. There are real world situations that are both true and not-true. A particle can “be” in two places at the same time. This fuzzy logic is incompatible with our daily experiences but if there is anything that we have learnt from physics in the last seven decades it is that the world is incompatible with our daily experiences. The third assumption is that the psychic realm is but a subset of the material one. We are membranes with a very particular hole-size. We filter through only well defined types of experiences, are equipped with limited (and evolutionarily biased) senses, programmed in a way which tends to sustain us until we die. We are not neutral, objective observers. Actually, the very concept of observer is disputable ? as modern physics, on the one hand and Eastern philosophy, on the other hand, have shown. Imagine that a mad scientist has succeeded to infuse all the water in the world with a strong hallucinogen. At a given moment, all the people in the world see a huge flying saucer. What can we say about this saucer? Is it true? Is it “real”? There is little doubt that the saucer does not exist. But who is to say so? If this statement is left unsaid ? does it mean that it cannot exist and, therefore, is untrue? In this case (of the illusionary flying saucer), the statement that remains unsaid is a true statement ? and the statement that is uttered by millions is patently false. Still, the argument can be made that the flying saucer did exist ? though only in the minds of those who drank the contaminated water. What is this form of existence? In which sense does a hallucination “exist”? The psychophysical problem is that no causal relationship can be established between a thought and its real life correlate, the brainwaves that accompany it. Moreover, this leads to infinite regression. If the brainwaves created the thought ? who created them, who made them happen? In other words: who is it (perhaps what is it) that thinks? The subject is so convoluted that to say that the mental is a mere subset of the material is to speculate It is, therefore, advisable to separate the ontological from the epistemological. But which is which? Facts are determined epistemologically and statistically by conscious and intelligent observers. Their “existence” rests on a sound epistemological footing. Yet we assume that in the absence of observers facts will continue their existence, will not lose their “factuality”, their real life quality which is observer-independent and invariant. What about truth? Surely, it rests on solid ontological foundations. Something is or is not true in reality and that is it. But then we saw that truth is determined psychically and, therefore, is vulnerable, for instance, to hallucinations. Moreover, the blurring of the lines in Quantum, non-Aristotelian, logics implies one of two: either that true and false are only “in our heads” (epistemological) ? or that something is wrong with our interpretation of the world, with our exegetic mechanism (brain). If the latter case is true that the world does contain mutually exclusive true and false values ? but the organ which identifies these entities (the brain) has gone awry. The paradox is that the second approach also assumes that at least the perception of true and false values is dependent on the existence of an epistemological detection device. Can something be true and reality and false in our minds? Of course it can (remember “Rashomon”). Could the reverse be true? Yes, it can. This is what we call optical or sensory illusions. Even solidity is an illusion of our senses ? there are no such things as solid objects (remember the physicist’s desk which is 99.99999% vacuum with minute granules of matter floating about). To reconcile these two concepts, we must let go of the old belief (probably vital to our sanity) that we can know the world. We probably cannot and this is the source of our confusion. The world may be inhabited by “true” things and “false” things. It may be true that truth is existence and falsity is non-existence. But we will never know because we are incapable of knowing anything about the world as it is. We are, however, fully equipped to know about the mental events inside our heads. It is there that the representations of the real world form. We are acquainted with these representations (concepts, images, symbols, language in general) ? and mistake them for the world itself. Since we have no way of directly knowing the world (without the intervention of our interpretative mechanisms) we are unable to tell when a certain representation corresponds to an event which is observer-independent and invariant and when it corresponds to nothing of the kind. When we see an image ? it could be the result of an interaction with light outside us (objectively “real”), or the result of a dream, a drug induced illusion, fatigue and any other number of brain events not correlated with the real world. These are observer-dependent phenomena and, subject to an agreement between a sufficient number of observers, they are judged to be true or “to have happened” (e.g., religious miracles). To ask if something is true or not is not a meaningful question unless it relates to our internal world and to our capacity as observers. When we say “true” we mean “exists”, or “existed”, or “most definitely will exist” (the sun will rise tomorrow). But existence can only be ascertained in our minds. Truth, therefore, is nothing but a state of mind. Existence is determined by observing and comparing the two (the outside and the inside, the real and the mental). This yields a picture of the world which may be closely correlated to reality ? and, yet again, may not.                                        Disease and medicine Concept Disease is a term for any condition that impairs the normal functioning of an organism or body. Although plants and animals also contract diseases, by far the most significant disease-related areas of interest are those conditions that  afflict  human beings. They can be divided into three categories:  intrinsic , or coming from within the body; extrinsic , or emerging from outside it; and of unknown origin. Until the twentieth century brought changes in the living standards and health care of industrialized societies, extrinsic diseases were the greater threat; today, however, diseases of intrinsic origin are much more familiar. Among them are stress-related diseases,  autoimmune disorders , cancers, hereditary diseases,  glandular  conditions, and conditions resulting from  malnutrition . There are also illnesses, such as Alzheimer's disease, whose causes remain essentially unknown. How It Works Classifying Diseases Any condition that impairs the normal functioning of an organism can be called a disease. In the human organism, as in all others, there are certain basic requirements, which in the human body include the need for a certain proper amount of oxygen, acidity,  salinity  (salt content),  nutrients , and so on. These conditions must all be maintained within a very narrow range, and any  deviation  can bring about disease. Diseases can be classified into three general groups. There are conditions that are infectious, or extrinsic, meaning that they are caused by an infection through which a virus,  bacterium , or other  parasite  enters the body. Infectious diseases, infections, and the immune system that usually protects us against them are discussed elsewhere in this book. Our attention in the present context will be devoted to the other two broad categories—noninfectious, or intrinsic, diseases and diseases of unknown origin. Classifying Intrinsic Diseases There are several basic varieties of intrinsic disease, or conditions that are neither  contagious  nor  communicable . These varieties are listed in the next few paragraphs. The essay  Noninfectious Diseases  includes a discussion of other systems for classifying diseases of either the intrinsic or the extrinsic variety. Hereditary diseases: diseases that are genetic, meaning that they are passed down from generation to generation. An example, discussed in Noninfectious Diseases, is  hemophilia . Heredity is not a "cause," and some of the diseases of unknown origin may be transmitted from parent to offspring. Some forms of cancer are hereditary as well, as are other conditions discussed elsewhere in this book. (See Nonifectious Diseases, Mutation, and Heredity.) Glandular diseases: Conditions involving a gland—that is, a cell or group of cells that filters material from the blood, processes that material, and secretes it either for use again in the body or to be eliminated as waste. Examples include diabetes mellitus, examined in Noninfectious Diseases, as well as various kidney and liver diseases, among them, hepatitis and  jaundice . Goiter, a  swelling  in the neck area caused by a diet poor in  iodine , is both a glandular and a dietary condition, a fact that illustrates the overlap between disease types. Dietary diseases: These are all illnesses that relate to nutrient deficiencies—either an overall lack of adequate nutrition (i.e., malnutrition) or the absence of a key nutrient. Examples include  pellagra , scurvy, and  rickets , all of which are vitamin deficiencies, as well as  kwashiorkor , which brings about a  swollen  belly and is caused by a lack of protein. Vitamin deficiencies are discussed in Vitamins, and kwashiorkor and other varieties of malnutrition are examined in  Nutrients and Nutrition . Cancers: Cancer is not just one disease but some 100 conditions. Its two main characteristics are  uncontrolled growth of diseased cells in the human body and migration of the disease from the original site to distant sites within the body. If the spread is not controlled, cancer can result in death. (See Noninfectious Diseases for more.) Stress-related diseases: Some heart conditions are hereditary or glandular, but quite a few diseases of the heart and  circulatory system  are exacerbated by stress. Examples include  heart murmurs ,  hardening  of the  arteries , and varicose veins . We will examine heart disease and the general effects of stress shortly. Autoimmune diseases: This is a particularly terrifying category of disease, because it involves a rejection of the body itself by the body's own immune system. Autoimmune diseases, examples of which include lupus and  rheumatoid arthritis , are discussed in The Immune System. Diseases of Unknown Origin Finally, there are diseases for which there is no known cause. In some cases, it is possible that  heredity , diet, or some other aspect of human existence has a role, but it is not certain. And even if, say, heredity plays a part, the exact hereditary factors are not established. In any case, many of the categories of disease we have listed do not amount to "causes," but rather are types of disease. Moreover, some diseases classifiable in one of the listed categories also belong in the ranks of the diseases with unknown causes. For instance, many autoimmune diseases are mysterious to scientists. Likewise, chronic  fatigue  syndrome, considered a disease of unknown origin, is obviously a stress-related disorder, while  fibromyalgia , characterized by  sore  muscles and tissues, may be stress-related as well. Two brain diseases of unknown origin, Creutzfeldt-Jakob and Alzheimer's disease, are discussed near the conclusion of this essay. Real-Life Applications A Changing Threat At one time the diseases that posed the greatest threat to human survival were infectious ones, such as the Black Death (actually a combination of  bubonic  and  pneumonic plague ), which killed about a third of Europe's population during the period from 1347 to 1351. Plagues or epidemics, in fact, are among the persistent themes in history, punctuating  the fall of empires and the rise of others. A plague that struck the eastern Roman (Byzantine) Empire in the sixth century, for instance, brought an end to a plan by the great  Justinian I  to  reconquer  the Italian peninsula and restore Roman rule in western Europe. It also spelled the beginning of the end of Byzantine glory (though the empire hung on until 1453) and opened the way for the rise of Islam and Muslim influence over the Mediterranean. Thus, the course of history up to the present day, including the events of the European Middle Ages, the Crusades, and even the modern-day conflict between the West and Islamic terrorists, can be traced in part back to a plague in about  A.D.  540. Wherever people have gathered in large numbers, infectious diseases have arisen. Smallpox and  chicken pox , cholera  and  malaria , diphtheria and scarlet fever,  influenza  and polio—these and many other diseases have threatened the very survival of whole populations, bringing about a collective death toll that dwarfs that of twentieth-century wars and genocide. Yet it was in the twentieth century—ironically, the era when humans discovered the capacity to kill themselves in truly  frightening  numbers through world wars, nuclear weaponry, and totalitarian  social experiments—that the threat of infectious diseases began to  recede . Thanks to successful  vaccination  programs, many infectious diseases are largely a thing of the past. This is true even of  smallpox , a  scourge  that effectively ended in 1978 thanks to a United Nations inoculation program, but which reemerged as a potential threat of biological terrorism in the hands of political terrorists, such as the Islamic terrorist  Osama bin Laden . It would be difficult for bin Laden's al-Qaeda organization to acquire samples of the virus, however; they are stored in only four or five laboratories worldwide (kept there for the purpose of making more vaccine  if needed) and remain under heavy guard. The Rise of Intrinsic Diseases Rather than infectious diseases, the much greater threat today is in the form of intrinsic diseases, or ones that are neither communicable nor contagious. The leading causes of death in the United States are as follows: Heart disease
Cancer
Stroke
Chronic obstructive lung diseases (e.g.,  emphysema )
Accidents (motor vehicle or other)
Pneumonia and influenza
Diabetes mellitus
Suicide
Kidney disease
Chronic liver disease and cirrhosis
Note that the one item on the list that is not an intrinsic disease and is not disease-related at all: accidents. After that is the first extrinsic disease entry on the list, number 6,  pneumonia  and the closely related condition influenza. Number 8, of course, is not related to disease—at least not physical disease. The high incidence of suicide, with 11.1 such deaths per 100,000 population, probably reflects the fact that the United States is an industrialized, wealthy nation. Ironically, people who are eking out a living, struggling for survival, are far less likely to end it all  voluntarily . Also reflective of America's high level of development is the overwhelming  preponderance  of intrinsic, noninfectious diseases on the list. Unquestionably, the greatest threat to human health today takes the form of noninfectious diseases, such as heart disease, cancer, and diseases of the  circulatory  system. This is true only in the industrialized world, however: whereas only about 25% of all patients who visit doctors in the United States do so because of infectious diseases, more than two-thirds of all deaths worldwide are caused by infectious diseases, such as malaria. Stress and Heart Disease Stress, simply put, is a condition of mental or physical tension brought about by internal or external pressures. Many events can cause stress: something as simple as taking a test or driving through rush-hour traffic or as  traumatic  as the death of a loved one or contracting a serious illness. Stress may be short-lived, as when facing a particular deadline , or it may be the ongoing, crippling stress related to a job that is slowly killing the victim. People who experience severe traumas, such as soldiers in combat, may experience a condition called post-traumatic stress disorder ( PTSD ). This condition first came to public attention after World War I, a war that completely dwarfed all preceding conflicts in its intensity and brutality. Formerly bright-eyed,  optimistic  youths came home behaving like madmen or nervous wrecks, and soon the condition gained the nickname  shell shock.  (Actually, shell shock dated back more than 50 years, to what might be regarded as the first modern war in the West—the first "total war" involving relatively sophisticated weaponry and a fully engaged citizenry: America's Civil War, from which combatants returned home with a condition known as "soldier's heart.") Effects of Stress Whereas PTSD has a distinct psychological dimension, in many stress-related diseases there is not as obvious a link between mental states and  bodily  disorders. Nonetheless, it is clear that stress kills. Some of the physical signs of stress are a dry mouth and throat, headaches,  indigestion , tremors, muscle tics,  insomnia , and a tightness of the muscles in the shoulders, neck, and back. Emotional signs of stress include tension,  anxiety , and depression. During stress, heart rate  quickens , blood pressure increases, and the body releases the  hormone  adrenaline, which speeds up the body's  metabolism . Stress may  disrupt  homeostasis, an internal bodily system of checks and balances, leading to a weakening of immunity. Diseases and conditions associated with stress include adult-onset diabetes (see Noninfectious Diseases), ulcers, high blood pressure,  asthma , migraine headaches, cancer, and even the common cold. The last, of course, is an infectious illness, but because stress impairs the immune system, it can leave a person highly susceptible to infection. Furthermore, medical researchers have determined that long-term stress causes the accumulation of fat, starch , calcium, and other substances in the linings of the blood vessels. This condition ultimately results in heart disease. Heart Diseases The human heart weighs just 10.5 oz. (300 g), but it contracts more than 100,000 times a day to drive blood through about 60,000 mi. (96,000 km) of vessels. An average heart will pump about 1,800 gal. (6,800 l) of blood each day. With exercise, that amount may increase as much as six times. In an average lifetime the heart will pump about 100 million gal. (380 million l) of blood. The heart is divided into four chambers: the two upper atria and the two lower  ventricles . The wall that divides the right and left sides of the heart is the  septum . Movement of blood between chambers and in and out of the heart is controlled by valves that allow transit in only one direction. Given its importance to human life, it follows that heart disease is an extremely serious condition. Among the many illnesses that fall under the general heading of heart disease is  congenital heart disease , a term for any defect in the heart that is present at birth. About one of every 100 infants is born with some sort of heart abnormality, the most common form being the  atrial septal defect , in which an opening in the septum allows blood from the right and left atria to mix. Coronary heart disease, also known as  coronary artery disease , is the most common form of heart disease. A condition termed  arteriosclerosis , in which there is a  thickening  of the artery walls, or a variety of arteriosclerosis known as  atherosclerosis  results when fatty material, such as  cholesterol , accumulates on an artery wall. This forms plaque, which  obstructs  blood flow. When the  obstruction  occurs in one of the main arteries leading to the heart, the heart does not receive enough blood and oxygen, and its muscle cells begin to die. Creutzfeldt-Jakob Disease A particularly frightening category of  unexplained  diseases includes those that attack and destroy the brain. Among them are two conditions named after German scientists: the psychiatrists Alfons Maria Jakob (1884-1931) and Hans Gerhard Creutzfeldt (1885-1964) and the neurologist Alois Alzheimer (1864-1915). Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease, fortunately, is a rare condition. The disease, first described by the two doctors in the 1920s, initially shows itself with the loss of memory, and within a few weeks it progresses to visual problems, loss of coordination, and seizure-like muscular  jerking . Death usually follows within a year. It appears that Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease ensues when a certain protein in the brain, known as prion protein, changes into an abnormal form. As to what causes that change, scientists remain in the dark. The disease attacks about one of a million people worldwide, and victims are typically about 50-75 years of age. During the 1990s something strange happened: the disease began affecting relatively large numbers of young people in the United Kingdom. A 1996 report of British medical experts, however, linked the surge in Creutzfeldt-Jakob cases to what might be considered a dietary condition:  bovine spongiform encephalopathy , or mad cow disease, contracted from eating cattle with a form of  prion disease . The only way to contract such a condition, however, is by eating the brain or spinal cord of an affected cow, something that could only happen in the case of hamburger or  sausage , in which one does not always know what one is getting. The cows themselves got the disease from eating feed tainted with by-products of other cows, and as a result of the outbreak, Great Britain issued wide-ranging controls prohibiting the production of feed containing any materials from cows. (These particular feed-production practices were never common in the United States.) Alzheimer's Disease Whereas Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease is a little-known condition, Alzheimer's disease is all too familiar to the families of the more than four million sufferers in America today. Note the reference to the families rather than the victims themselves: one of the most devastating aspects of Alzheimer's disease is the patient's progressive loss of contact with reality, such that a patient in an advanced stage does not even know that he or she has the disease. A progressive brain disease that brings about mental  deterioration , Alzheimer's disease is signaled by symptoms that include increasingly poor memory, personality changes, and a loss of concentration and judgment. Although most victims are older 65 years, Alzheimer's is not a normal result of aging. Up until the 1970s people assumed that physical and mental decline were normal and  unavoidable  features of old age and dismissed such cases of deterioration as " senility ." Yet as early as 1906, Alzheimer himself discovered evidence that pointed in a different direction. In that year Alzheimer was studying a 51-year-old woman whose personality and mental abilities were obviously deteriorating . She forgot things, became  paranoid , acted strangely, and just over four years after he began working with her, she died. Following an  autopsy , Alzheimer examined sections of her brain under a  microscope  and noted deposits of an unusual substance in her cerebral cortex—the outer,  wrinkled  layer of the brain, where many of the higher brain functions, such as memory, speech, and thought, originate. The substance Alzheimer saw under the microscope is now known to be a protein called beta-amyloid. About 75 years later scientists and physicians began to recognize a strong link between "senility" and the condition Alzheimer had identified. Since then, the public has become more aware of the disease, especially since Alzheimer's disease has stricken such well-known figures as the former president Ronald Reagan (1911-) and the actress  Rita Hayworth  (1918-1987). The Impact of Alzheimer's Disease A slight decline in short-term memory (as opposed to long-term memories of childhood and the like) is typical even in healthy elderly adults, but the memory loss seen in Alzheimer's disease is much more severe. As years pass, memory loss becomes greater, and personality and behavioral changes occur. Later symptoms include disorientation , confusion, speech  impairment , restlessness,  irritability , and the inability to care for  oneself . Although victims may remain physically healthy for years, the progressive decline of their mental faculties is ultimately fatal: eventually, the brain loses the ability to control basic physical functions, such as swallowing. Persons with Alzheimer's disease typically live between five and ten years after diagnosis, although improvements in health care in recent years have enabled some victims to survive for 15 years or even longer. Improvements in health care also may help explain the fact that the numbers of Alzheimer victims are growing. Medical discoveries of the twentieth century served to prolong life greatly, such that there are far more people alive today who are 65 years of age or older than there were in 1900. More accurate reporting no doubt plays a part as well. Whereas about 2.5 million cases were reported throughout the 1970s, by the end of the twentieth century there were some four million living Alzheimer victims, and by the mid-twenty-first century that number is expected to climb to the range of 13 million if physicians do not find a cure. Meanwhile, Alzheimer's causes the deaths of more than 100,000 American adults each year and costs $80-90  billion  annually in health-care expenses. Understanding Alzheimer It is not a simple procedure to diagnose Alzheimer's disease, and despite all the medical progress since the time of Alois Alzheimer, the "best" method for determining whether someone has the condition is hardly a good one. The only possible physical procedure for definitively diagnosing Alzheimer's disease is to open the skull and remove a sample of brain tissue for  microscopic  examination. This is rarely done, of course, because brain surgery is far too drastic  a procedure for simply obtaining a sample of tissue. The immediate cause of Alzheimer's is the death of brain cells and a decrease in the connections between those cells that survive. But what causes  that?  Many scientists today believe that the presence of beta-amyloid protein is a cause in itself, while others maintain that the appearance of the protein is simply a response to some other, still unknown phenomenon. Researchers have found that a small percentage of Alzheimer cases apparently are induced by genetic  mutations , but most cases result from unknown factors. Various risk factors have been identified, but they are not the same as causes; rather, a risk factor simply means that if a person has  x,  he or she is more likely to have  y.  Risk factors for Alzheimer's include exposure to  toxins , head trauma (former president Reagan suffered a serious head injury before the onset of Alzheimer's disease), Down syndrome (a genetic disorder that causes mental retardation ), age, and even gender (women are more likely than men to suffer from Alzheimer's disease). Familial Alzheimer's disease, an inherited form, accounts for about 10% of cases. Approximately 100 families in the world are known to have rare genetic mutations that are linked with early onset of symptoms, and some of these families have an aggressive form of the disease in which symptoms appear before age 40. The remaining 90% of cases may be caused by various combinations of genetic and as yet  undefined  environmental factors.
Liver Care Capsules Liver Care Capsules  more...
Anti-Diabetics Anti-Diabetics  more...
Herb Capsules Herb powders can be filled in capsules. We can provide gelatin as well as vegetable capsules. We can also provide capsules of different sizes from 1 mg to 5 mg.
GARLIC Each capsule contains Freeze Dried Powder of Garlic (Allium Sativum) 200mg. more...
Diclofenac Diethylamine Gel Diclofenac Diethylamine Gel  more...
JOY BODY SPLASH 100 ML CLIMAX Joy Climax energizing body splash has a combination of invigorating fragrances. Splash it all over your body after shower or bath for energizing your day.  more...
AlfaTest (Testosterone booster / Sports & Sexual performance aid) AlfaTest is a powerhouse of natural testosterone boosting ingredients Bulgarian Tribulus, Ashwagandha, Fenugreek and Safed Musli. It does not contain any hormones.
AlfaTest works by increasing the body's testosterone production. Higher levels of testosterone lead to increased libido and sexual desire, greater strength and endurance, improved erectile function and a leaner body mass  more...
Aroma Therapy Spa Oil & Carrier Oil We provide wide variety of Aroma Therapy, Spa Oil & Carrier Oil like armise oil, cade oil rectified, castor oil, cinnamon oil, curry leaf oil, jasmine absolute, lavender oil, lemon grass oil, pine oil, rose oil, tea tree oil, apricot oil, almond oil sweet, cucumber oil, glycerine, jojoba oil, neem oil, olive oil virgin, walnut oil and wheat germ oil. These are prepared using finest herbs like cinnamon, curry leaf, jasmine flower, lavender, lemon grass, pine leaf, apricot and walnut. Our entire range is widely used for facial and body message as it gives complete relief from stress and skin infections.
Features:  more.
Anti Diabetic Drugs Anti Diabetic Drugs  more...
Maha Yograj Guggul Maha Yograj Guggul is very good medicie for all types of Arthiritis.Very good muscle relaxant.It reduces pain and inflammation.Maha Yograj Guggulu is also useful in Sprain,Lumbago, Spodylosis, and other allied conditions.   Features:   more...
Nimpar Ayurvedic Oil To help the people get rid of the pain and allergy, we provide Nimpar Ayurvedic Oil  that is extremely beneficial for the body. Every ingredient in the oil works to relax your muscles and nerves by improving blood circulation in the affected area. It provides relief without side effects of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs that are commonly prescribed for joint pains, arthritis & rheumatism.
Constipation And Gastric Medicine (Bio-Kabzul) We offer relief in the most natural way and without any side effects with our range of Bio-Kabzul that not only gives relief from constipation but is also used in cleaning and toning the gastro intestinal tract. This medicine is also effective in irritable bowel syndrome and ulcerative colitis and can also be used for detoxifying the whole body and improves digestion and assimilation.
Massage Oils & Bath Oils The use of essential oils in massage is a fantastic way to maximize the healing power of the massage itself. When combined with essential oils, a massage can have a powerful calming or energizing effect, depending on the oil chosen and the strokes of the masseur.
When using essential oils in massage, always dilute the oils in a carrier oil prior to application to the skin.
Massage Oils:-
• Invigorating
• Sedative
• Relaxation
• Euphoria
• Bliss
• Balancing
• Melody
• Vitality
• Sensual
• Joy & Happiness
Bath Oils:-
• Winds Of Himalayas
• Thousand Petals
• Relaxation
• Hang Over
• Aphrodecia
• Stimulating
• Refreshing
• Uplifting
• Calming
Antidiabetic Drug We offer premium quality anti diabetic drugs, which are used in controlling blood sugar levels in people who suffers from diabetes mellitus (sugar diabetes). We are committed to serve quality to the customers, therefore, these drugs are highly effective and comply with the latest developments of the medical industry. These drugs are available in different dosage quantity and packagings as per customers requirements.
Shatavri Caps Shatavri Extract (250 Mg.) Corrects Irregular ovulation, Increase female lemldo, helps In general ability In sexual woekness, menstrual disorders 6 pelvic inflammatory diseases.  more...
Grafix Capsules Underdeveloped, small or sagging breasts are a cause of much cosmetic concern and lead to a great embarrassment, frustration and a constant reminder that they may never achieve physical perfection as idealized by society’s standard whether living alone or in company... especially with that of male partner. GRAFIX Capsules is a non-surgical breast enlargement oral therapy for the size and shape of breasts you dreamt of. Also GRAFIX lets your male partner feel proud of you when you are with him while visiting families and friends or when on outings or at home. And the best part is that there is no surgery, health risks, need for recovery, missed work, scars, or anything else but the beautiful breasts- satisfying your intense inner need.
Amazing GRAFIX capsule is excellent for breast firming and enlargement. GRAFIX Capsules turns underdeveloped or small breasts to firm and tightened breasts, GRAFIX enlarges breasts naturally
Baby Gripe Water Babuline gripwater is an ayurvedic product. It is very tasty and is prepared from carminative oils dill, aniseed and caraway along with correct mix of menthol. This is prepared with the correct combination of alkaline salt of sodium
Stress Relief/Neurology Highly stressful lives have led to steep increase in number of cases of hypertension, cardiac disorders, depression, insomnia as well as other lifestyle diseases. We offer stress relief and neurology treatment through Ayurveda that have proved to be very effective. The offered range includes:
Shanti Herbal Capsule - an effective anti-depressant Unique Ayurvedic preparation made from a combination of herbs according to pre-historic AYURVEDIC Scriptural process, which makes it very effective as anti-depressant. Also used as and in: Brain Tonic Phobia Mentally retarded cases and Alzheimer  Doses : -           One Capsule in the morning with water.  (Apart from routine dose, can be taken additionally at a time of uncomfortable state of mind / more tension.) Main work of the medicine is to stabilise the hyper activity of the nerves in the brain.   For Alzheimer and mentally retarded persons two to three capsule per day. Other Benefits :   It strengthens the body and brain to cope up with additional stress. Synchronises the function of brain and nerves. It reduces hyper-activity of nerves. It improved brain function by making brain
Posted by
jeriel23
at
6:15 PM
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share to Pinterest
No comments:
Post a Comment
Newer Post
Older Post
Home
Subscribe to:
Post Comments (Atom)
Followers
Blog Archive
▼
2010
(3)
►
November
(1)
▼
October
(2)
SKELETON
Human Skeleton
The human skeleton consi...
The Human Body
About Me
jeriel23
View my complete profile
Watermark template. Powered by
Blogger .