Soylent heat turns fiction to fact | Human World | EarthSky
En Español
Store
Subscribe
About EarthSky
Team
Submit Your Images
Contact
EarthSky
A Clear Voice for Science
Earth
Space
Human World
Photos
Videos
Science Wire
Today’s Image
Tonight
Brightest Stars
Astronomy Essentials
Moon Phases
Clusters Nebulae Galaxies
Favorite Star Patterns
Constellations
Search for:
Enjoying EarthSky? Subscribe.
Fill out my Wufoo form!
187,792 subscribers and counting ...
By
Beverly Spicer
in
Blogs
|
Human World
on
Feb 02, 2009
Soylent heat turns fiction to fact
Photo:
jerik0ne
Maybe there are less-than-dystopian scenarios utilizing concepts of ‘recycling’ that could be applied to an overpopulated, energy-starved world.
I know, I know, just the name “ Soylent ” conjures up all sorts of visions of bizarre things.
For those of you who haven’t read the book or seen
the film “Soylent Green” , suffice it to say that it’s a dystopian view of a future where dead humans are turned into food to feed living ones.
It’s something that is so repugnant as to defy the imagination, however, Soylent Green is perhaps just the first in a string of such ideas.
“ The Yes Men ,” imposters who represent themselves as advisors to corporations and groups such as the World Trade Organization presented just such an idea to WTO to feed starving populations in the Third World:
turning human waste into hamburger-type patties in an efficient recycling machine that takes the process
from pootie to patty .
Sorry, but
they
made a
very funny documentary
that if you haven’t seen, is worth renting.
The human world bans such shocking practices, but we get a hint of these types of things in the practice of “intra species recycling,” or animal feed
cannibalism
that caused an outbreak of Bovine Spongiform Enchaphalopathy (BSE), commonly known as
Mad Cow
disease, where cows were fed bovine parts in their feed.
The idea that feeding animals to themselves would be successful is counterintuitive, that is, since we know
what happened in Papua , New Guinea.
Kuru
is still a problem.
But, maybe there are other less repugnant, less dystopian scenarios utilizing similar concepts of ‘recycling’ that could be applied to an overpopulated, energy-starved world.
Humans are plenty creative, that’s for sure, and now, for the news that inspired this post:
A
crematorium in Halmstad, Sweden
has come up with an idea to recycle heat produced from cremations to warm its own facilities. As if that’s not enough, it soon plans to provide heat to homes in the town. To be fair, the idea came up in response to its pollution problem, and you cannot argue that this is a creative solution. But it sounds like Soylent Heat to me!
Read about more it
HERE
and
HERE .
Please enable JavaScript to view the
comments powered by Disqus.
Beverly Spicer
Writer, editor, photojournalist, and cartoonist, Beverly Spicer is a diarist of almost 200 volumes of illustrated journals and author of two books.
Her undergraduate degree is in physiological psychology and biology, and she holds a Master of Science in Architecture in interdisciplinary studies, combining architecture, neuroscience, and Middle Eastern studies.
She is E-Bits Editor for The Digital Journalist, an online magazine for visual journalism.
Earlier in her career, she was a researcher in animal physiology at the University of Virginia, later was programming associate at KRLU-TV Public Broadcasting Station, and before that worked at Texas Monthly magazine in Austin.
Today's Image
Best images of surprise Halloween comet
Tonight's Sky
Dance of predawn planets and moon
Tweets by @earthskyscience
Store
Subscribe
About EarthSky
Team
Submit Your Images
Contact
Privacy Policy
© 2015 Earthsky Communications Inc.