Salt
Nutrition and Weight Control Special Report
The Wisdom of Cutting Back on Salt
Americans love salt. On average, we consume twice the recommended daily
maximum intake of 2,300 mg of sodium each day, which is 10 to 20 times what is
needed for normal body function. Our bodies do need some salt -- but not that
much. Here’s what you should know.
Excessive sodium intake causes constriction of small arteries throughout the
body and retention of water, which increases the volume of blood to your
arteries and veins. These effects can raise blood pressure and cause
hypertension, the most important risk factor for a stroke.
Hypertension (high blood pressure) is also a major risk factor for coronary
heart disease, the number one cause of death in the United States.
Cardiovascular disease, the umbrella term for all diseases of the heart and
blood vessels including heart disease, hypertension, and stroke, claims the
lives of about 850,000 people yearly. Hypertension also contributes to heart
failure, kidney disease, and vision loss. About 73 million American adults have
hypertension, defined as a systolic blood pressure of 140 mm Hg or higher and/or
a diastolic blood pressure of 90 mm Hg or more.
Most individuals can benefit from reducing the sodium content of their diet.
If you already have high blood pressure and are taking medication for it,
cutting down on salt can help by making drug therapy more effective. Consuming
less salt can reduce medication doses and even replace medication as a way to
reduce high blood pressure.
If your blood pressure is normal, it's still worth cutting down on salt,
because it may help reduce your chances of developing high blood pressure later
in life. Even if you're 55 years old and have normal blood pressure, you still
have a 90% chance of developing hypertension sometime later in life. And even if
your blood pressure is normal, excess salt can increase the size and thickness
of your heart and the stiffness of your arteries, setting the stage for heart
disease.
When it comes to cutting sodium, putting away the salt shaker is hardly
enough. The vast majority of salt we eat -- 80% -- comes from foods that are
processed or served in restaurants. Only 10% of salt is added during home
cooking or at the table. The remaining 10% of salt occurs naturally in foods.
Try taking these steps to cut out some of the salt in your diet:
Eat fresh fruits and vegetables more often.
They are naturally
low in sodium and are good sources of potassium, which helps blunt the blood
pressure-raising effects of sodium.
Choose processed and packaged foods with less sodium.
Read labels
carefully, since sodium is not always where you think. For example, salad
dressings, cheese, breakfast cereals, store-bought cookies and breads,
mayonnaise, and canned beans and vegetables can contain substantial amounts
of sodium.
When cooking at home, skip the salt
and instead flavor your food
with pepper, herbs, spices, vinegar, wine, garlic, onion, lemon, and
low-salt versions of mustard, ketchup, and Worcestershire sauce. Choose low-
or reduced sodium broths and soups.
When dining out, ask the server to have your meal prepared without
added salt.
And of course, limit your consumption of fast foods and
ethnic foods that are high in salt.
And finally: OJ Every Day
-- Dietary potassium can help reduce the
damage caused by sodium by dilating arteries and reducing blood pressure. The
National Academy of Sciences advises adults to consume at least 4.7 g of
potassium per day to lower the risk of hypertension, kidney stones, and bone
loss. However, most people get about half that amount.
To add more potassium to your diet, reach for these potassium rich foods:
sweet potatoes, white potatoes, beet greens, soybeans, bananas, spinach, tomato
juice, tomato sauce, orange juice, dried peaches, stewed prunes, dried apricots,
honeydew melon, cantaloupe, lentils, and kidney beans. An 8-oz glass of orange
juice has 450 mg of potassium; a medium banana has about 422 mg.
What Is a Gene?
Look closely at the chromosomes and you'd see that each is made of bundles of
looping coils. If you unraveled these coils, you'd have a six-foot long double
strand of deoxyribonucleic acid-DNA.
DNA is a twisted double strand of nucleotides-adenine
(A), cytosine (C), guanine (G), and thymine (T).
Believe it or not, if you took all of the DNA in all of
your cells and laid it out end to end, it would stretch to the moon and back
about 130,000 times.
A DNA molecule is a twisted ladder-like stack of building blocks called
nucleotides. There are four types of DNA nucleotides-adenine, cytosine, guanine,
and thymine-or A, C, G, and T, for short.
If you could peer into any one of your body's 50 trillion cells, you'd find a
fantastically complex and busy world. At the center of this world you'd find a
nucleus containing 46 molecules called chromosomes-23 from your mother and 23
from your father. These chromosomes are basically an instruction set for the
construction and maintenance of... you.
These two long stacks of building blocks fit together like two sides of
zipper, but there's a rule involved: adenine only pairs with thymine, and
cytosine only pairs with guanine. So each rung in the DNA ladder is a pair of
nucleotides, and each pair is either an A stuck to a T or a C stuck to a G.
You've got six billion of these pairs of nucleotides in each of your cells,
and amongst these six billion nucleotide pairs are roughly 30,000 genes. A gene
is a distinct stretch of DNA that determines something about who you are. (More
on that later.) Genes vary in size, from just a few thousand pairs of
nucleotides (or "base pairs") to over two million base pairs.
How Do Genes Work?
Genes are often called the blueprint for life, because they tell each of
your cells what to do and when to do it: be a muscle, make bone, carry nerve
signals, and so on. And how do genes orchestrate all this? They make
proteins. In fact, each gene is really just a recipe for a making a certain
protein.
Here are several examples of how RNA codes for amino
acids. These codons are for tryptophan, the amino acid that contributes to
the sleepy feeling you may have after eating turkey; phenylalanine, an amino
acid used in the aspartame sweetener in diet soda; tyrosine, an important
amino acid in intracellular signaling processes; and cystine.
And why are proteins important? Well, for starters, you are made of proteins.
50% of the dry weight of a cell is protein of one form or another. Meanwhile,
proteins also do all of the heavy lifting in your body: digestion, circulation,
immunity, communication between cells, motion-all are made possible by one or
more of the estimated 100,000 different proteins that your body makes.
But the genes in your DNA don't make protein directly. Instead, special
proteins called enzymes read and copy (or "transcribe") the DNA code. The
segment of DNA to be transcribed gets "unzipped" by an enzyme, which uses the
DNA as a template to build a single-stranded molecule of RNA. Like DNA, RNA is a
long strand of nucleotides.
This transcribed RNA is called messenger RNA, or mRNA for short, because it
leaves the nucleus and travels out into the cytoplasm of the cell. There,
protein factories called ribosomes translate the mRNA code and use it to make
the protein specified in the DNA recipe.
If all this sounds confusing, just remember: DNA is used to make RNA, then
RNA is used to make proteins-and proteins run the show.
"Junk" DNA
Scientists first studying DNA sequences were surprised
to find that less than 2% of human DNA codes for proteins. If 98% of our
genetic information (or "genome") isn't coding for protein, what is it for?
At first it wasn't clear, and some termed this
non-coding DNA "junk DNA." But as more research is done, we are beginning to
learn more about the DNA between the genes-intergenic DNA.
Intergenic DNA seems to play a key role in regulation,
that is, controlling which genes are turned "on" or "off" at any given time.
For example, some intergenic sequences code for RNA that
directly causes and controls reactions in a cell, a job that scientists
originally thought only proteins could do.
Intergenic DNA is also thought to be responsible for
"alternative splicing," a kind of mix-and-match process whereby several
different proteins can be made from one gene.
In short, it now seems that much of the interest and
complexity in the human genome lies in the stuff between the genes... so
don't call it junk.
It Runs in the Family: Genes and Human Difference
Biologists use two fancy words to describe the relationship between your
genes and your physical traits. The first word is genotype. Your genotype is
your genes for a given trait. In most cases, you've got two copies of a gene -
one from your mother and one from your father.
Pass the Peas, Please
Gregor Mendel was an Austrian monk who did extensive
breeding research on pea plants. In doing so, he overturned our
understanding of heredity.
At the time of Mendel's work, in the 1860's, most people
believed in the blending theory of heredity, the idea that offspring were
born with traits constituting a blend or average of the two parents. By this
theory, when a red and a white flower are bred together, or crossed, their
offspring should all be blended, that is, pink.
Mendel's results suggested otherwise. For example, when
he crossed pure-bred tall pea plants with pure-bred short pea plants, he got
all tall pea plants-no blending there. He concluded that every organism
possesses two "factors" (we now call them genes) for a given trait, and
passes on just one of these factors-at random-to its offspring.
As different as people can be, we are more alike than we
realize. Compare any two people and you'll find that 99.9% of their DNA is
the same.
The second word is phenotype. Phenotype is what you actually turn out to be,
the way these genes get expressed. Biologists have a saying involving these two
fancy words: "Genotype determines phenotype."
Let's take eyelashes, for example. There are 2 kinds of eyelashes in people -
long and short. Maybe you've got a short lashes version of a gene from your
father, and a long lashes version of a gene from your mother. That's your
genotype. And what length of lashes do you actually have? Long - that's your
phenotype.
The eyelash example makes an important point. Some genes are dominant, and
others are recessive. When you have two different genes for the same trait, and
one is dominant (long lashes) while the other is recessive (short lashes), it's
the dominant trait that wins out in the phenotype.
But not all genes follow this dominant/recessive model. For example, the gene
for blood type is codominant; if you get a gene for type A blood from one parent
and type B blood from the other, neither dominates. Instead, you wind up with
type AB blood.
Other human traits are polygenic, which means that they are controlled by
several genes that contribute in an additive fashion. Skin color is believed to
be polygenic. Scientists also think that polygenic inheritance is responsible
for inherited predispositions to certain diseases, such as heart disease,
arteriosclerosis, and some cancers.
When Genes Go Bad: Mutations and Disease
DNA is constantly subject to mutations, accidental changes in its code.
Mutations can lead to missing or malformed proteins, and that can lead to
disease.
Sickled blood cells (left) and normal blood cells.
Sickle Cell
These are the sickle-shaped blood cells of someone
with sickle cell anemia, a genetic disease common among those of African
descent.
Sickle cell anemia is the result of a point
mutation, a change in just one nucleotide in the gene for hemoglobin.
This mutation causes the hemoglobin in red blood cells to distort to a
sickle shape when deoxygenated. The sickle-shaped blood cells clog in
the capillaries, cutting off circulation.
Having two copies of the mutated genes cause sickle
cell anemia, but having just one copy does not, and can actually protect
against malaria - an example of how mutations are sometimes beneficial.
We all start out our lives with some mutations. These mutations inherited
from your parents are called germ-line mutations. However, you can also
acquire mutations during your lifetime. Some mutations happen during cell
division, when DNA gets duplicated. Still other mutations are caused when
DNA gets damaged by environmental factors, including UV radiation,
chemicals, and viruses.
Few mutations are bad for you. In fact, some mutations can be beneficial.
Over time, genetic mutations create genetic diversity, which keeps
populations healthy. Many mutations have no effect at all. These are called
silent mutations.
But the mutations we hear about most often are the ones that cause
disease. Some well-known inherited genetic disorders include cystic
fibrosis, sickle cell anemia, Tay-Sachs disease, phenylketonuria and
color-blindness, among many others. All of these disorders are caused by the
mutation of a single gene.
Most inherited genetic diseases are recessive, which means that a person
must inherit two copies of the mutated gene to inherit a disorder. This is
one reason that marriage between close relatives is discouraged; two
genetically similar adults are more likely to give a child two copies of a
defective gene.
Diseases caused by just one copy of a defective gene, such as
Huntington's disease, are rare. Thanks to natural selection, these dominant
genetic diseases tend to get weeded out of populations over time, because
afflicted carriers are more likely to die before reproducing.
Scientists estimate that every one of us has between 5 and 10 potentially
deadly mutations in our genes-the good news is that because there's usually
only one copy of the bad gene, these diseases don't manifest.
Cancer usually results from a series of mutations within a single cell.
Often, a faulty, damaged, or missing p53 gene is to blame. The p53 gene
makes a protein that stops mutated cells from dividing. Without this
protein, cells divide unchecked and become tumors.
Genetic Testing
Genetic Tests
Some of the diseases for which genetic tests
are currently available:
Cancer (some forms, predisposition only)
Cystic Fibrosis
Down syndrome
Fragile-X Syndrome
Hemophilia
Huntington's Disease
Lou Gehrig's Disease
Neurofibromatosis
Muscular Dystrophy
Phenylketonuria
Sickle Cell Anemia
Tay-Sachs Disease
Have you ever had your genes tested? Probably not. DNA testing is still
pretty limited, although it is becoming more and more common, especially for
fetuses and newborns.
Many prospective parents, especially those with a history of genetic
disease in the family, seek genetic testing and counseling before having
children. Genetic counselors can evaluate genetic tests and advise people of
the risk of conceiving a child with recessive, inherited diseases like
sickle cell anemia, Tay-Sachs disease, or cystic fibrosis.
Biochips
Biochips, also called DNA arrays or microarrays, are
a new technology that promises to speed and simplify a wide range of
genetic tests.
Each small glass slide or "chip" contains rows and
rows of DNA probes, which test for the presence of a specific DNA
sequence or mutation. If the mutation or sequence is present in the DNA
being tested, a specific spot on the biochip will glow under special
light. A biochip can test for thousands of mutations at once.
Biochips could be the first step towards genetic ID
cards. Imagine something like a credit card, except this card would
carry all of your genetic information. Your doctors could use this DNA
data to tailor your medical care and choose the right drugs and dosages.
Genetic tests can be performed on fetuses by taking cell samples from the
womb. The two techniques available are called amniocentesis and chorionic
villi sampling. Down syndrome, a condition caused by having an extra
chromosome, is tested for this way. After birth, most newborns are given a
blood test for phenylketonuria, a genetic disease that can cause mental
retardation if it goes undiagnosed.
Not all genetic testing is focused on children. Testing is also done to
match organ donors and recipients, to establish paternity or maternity, and
in forensics, for identifying evidence from crime scenes. Testing can also
help diagnose adult-onset inherited diseases, such as Huntington's disease.
Genetic tests are now available for a range of cancers. These tests don't
test for cancer directly, but instead indicate an increased likelihood of
developing a cancer. Likelihood is far from certainty, and cancer may or may
not develop, since it must be triggered by additional mutations.
Meanwhile, many cancers develop in persons without so-called "cancer
genes." For example, the two gene variants that have been linked with breast
cancer, called BRCA1 and BRCA2, are involved in only 5% of breast cancer
cases.
The decision to be tested can be loaded. What if a gene test told you
that age 40 or so, you would start to lose control of your muscles and live
a shorter lifespan? This is the case in Huntington's disease, which has no
cure. Perhaps you would rather not know, but the information might also
guide your life decisions, such as when or whether to have children.
Making Medicines
Drug Manufacturing Plants
Along with bacteria and farm animals, plants are
being genetically engineered to make human hormones, antibodies, and
blood-clotting factors. Bananas are being engineered to deliver
vaccines.
To make a transgenic plant, scientists mix foreign
DNA with protoplasts, plant cells that have had their tough cell walls
removed. Then, they run a small electric current through the mixture.
The current makes tiny holes in the cell, allowing the foreign DNA to
enter. Once the protoplast develops into a plant, the medicine it has
been tricked into making can be extracted from the plant's seeds.
Not long ago, if you were diabetic, the insulin your doctor prescribed
would have come from a pig. If you required human growth hormone, it would
have come from human cadavers, a source that is costly, not to mention a
little creepy.
Now, these and other medicines can be made by specially-modified
bacteria, called transgenic bacteria. These single-celled organisms have
foreign genes along side their own DNA. They live and reproduce like
ordinary bacteria, but they also do a bit of extra duty, and produce human
proteins for medicines and vaccines.
The sweetener in most diet sodas-phenylalanine-is
made by transgenic bacteria. Transgenic bacteria also make important
medicines.
Farm animals have also been put to work making drugs for humans. It's
called gene pharming. For example, antithrombin III, which prevents blood
clotting during surgery, is secreted in the milk of transgenic goats. To
create these transgenic goats, scientists used a needle thinner than a human
hair to inject the DNA sequence for antithrombin III into goat eggs. Then
they transplanted the fertilized transgenic eggs into female goats.
Scientists also hope to use genetic technologies to make "magic bullets,"
drugs that are designed to target specific antigens (disease-causing
substances) while leaving healthy tissue alone. "Magic bullets" would have
few side effects, because they would consist of antibodies, the same kind of
specific weapons that our own immune systems use to kill invaders like
viruses, bacteria, or even cancer.
New Therapies
David Vetter, also known as "the boy in the
bubble," died in 1984 at age 12 with a rare immune disease, called
SCID. Today, this disease has be treated-with mixed success-using
gene therapy.
Parts from Pigs?
Donated human organs like hearts, livers, and
lungs are in short supply. Could pig organs be put into people?
Ordinarily, your body would reject a pig organ
faster than you can say "bacon." But researchers hope to be able
"humanize" pigs for organ donation by adding human genes to their
DNA. As bizarre as this idea may sound, researches have already used
this technique to transplant genetically altered pig organs into
monkeys.
Many of the worst diseases around are caused by glitches in our
genes, and the therapies for these diseases often involve a lifetime of
drugs (and their nasty side effects) that help but don't really solve
the problem. Wouldn't it be great if doctors could just "fix" this
faulty DNA?
That is the goal of gene therapy, the insertion of genes into human
cells to treat a disorder. It's harder than it sounds. Getting the genes
into the right cells, getting them to stay there, and getting them to
"express," that is, do their jobs-all present major challenges. Still,
there have been some gene therapy successes, and researchers hope for
more in the future. So far, gene therapy on blood cells has been most
successful, because blood can be easily removed and returned to the
body-not so with hearts and livers.
Stemming Controversy
Human stem cells are useful in gene therapy
research and treatments-no debate there. Yet there is debate about
one of the common sources for stem cells: unwanted human embryos
from fertility clinics.
It is possible to do stem cell research using
stem cells from other sources, including cord blood (found in
placentas and umbilical cords), bone marrow, tooth pulp, and even in
the tissue sucked out during liposuction.
However, these non-embryonic stem cells are less
versatile, and many researchers believe that embryonic stem cells
hold the most potential for such medical possibilities as
"replacement" organs and gene therapy.
For example, gene therapy has helped children a rare immune disease
called SCID, caused when a faulty gene fails to make a necessary enzyme.
Doctors remove some blood cells and use a virus to "infect" the cells
with good copies of the faulty gene. Then these blood cells are returned
to the body, where they start making the missing enzyme.
The blood cells used in this and other gene therapy trials were stem
cells. Stem cells are undifferentiated cells, cells that can grow into
other types of cell in the body. Stem cells are extremely interesting to
genetic researchers, because it's possible to use them to grow tissues
and organs "ex vivo" (outside of the body), as well as to provide cures
by injecting genetically-tailored stem cells directly into the body ("in
vivo").
Genetic technologies promise many new forms of treatment. Thanks to
information provided by the Human Genome Project, a recently-completed
effort to identify the entire sequence of human DNA, researchers are
envisioning new cures and treatments for a growing list of diseases,
including diabetes, heart disease, cancer, AIDS, and Parkinson's. Often,
knowing the genetic cause of a disease can help point researchers
towards a cure.
Ethics
A strain of mice used for cancer research, called
Oncomouse, was the first mammal to be patented.
The new possibilities created by genetics have brought with them new
questions about what is right.
An example: genetic testing is, for now, optional. But many medical tests
that start out as optional become less and less optional as time goes by.
Who should decide when genetic tests are done? Should insurance companies or
employers have access to the results?
If prenatal genetic tests become more common, will people with certain
genetic traits, diseases, or even predispositions suffer increased
discrimination? Will "designer babies" become the norm? For some, the
opportunities presented by genetic testing and therapies smack of eugenics,
the use of selective breeding to create "superior" people.
More broadly, who "owns" the genetic information-or the life forms-that
come from research? These questions arise with increasing frequency in
industry, where patents are granted for genetically engineered plants and
animals, and for genetic sequences.
This cloned sheep, Dolly, foretells the prospect of
human cloning, one of many reproductive possibilities under debate.
Companies argue that without patents, they are left with no guarantee
that they can recoup their investment when they discover key genes. But do
patents stifle progress and the free exchange of ideas, so important in
science?
Food for Thought
The genetic modification of plants for food is a
hot-button issue around the world. Genes transplanted to corn, potato,
soybean and other food strains can confer desired traits, such as
resistance to pests, which lessens the need for toxic pesticides. Though
genetically modified foods are thought to be safe to eat, their impact
on the environment may not be fully known.
Others worry that reckless experimenting will have unforeseen,
potentially catastrophic consequences. For example, the prospect of
transplanting animal organs into people (xenotransplantation) raises concern
that new diseases could jump from animals to humans, as SARS and "mad cow"
disease have.
As for gene therapy, some wonder if it's right to tinker with human DNA.
Currently, treatments are focused on somatic cells, that is, cells in the
body. Any alterations are not passed on to later generations, because DNA in
the germ cells-eggs and sperm-is unaffected. But so-called germ line gene
therapy is certainly possible. It could cure diseases before they happened,
but might cause other unexpected problems that would persist in later
generations.
Human brain
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to:
navigation ,
search
This article is about features specific to the human brain.
For basic information about brains, see
brain .
Neuroscience portal
Illustration of the human brain and skull
The
human brain
is the center of the human
nervous system
and is a highly complex organ. Enclosed in
the
cranium , it has the same general structure as the brains of
other
mammals , but is over three times as large as the brain of a
typical mammal with an equivalent body size. [1]
Most of the expansion comes from the
cerebral cortex , a convoluted layer of neural tissue that
covers the surface of the forebrain. Especially expanded are the
frontal lobes , which are involved in
executive functions
such as self-control, planning,
reasoning, and abstract thought. The portion of the brain
devoted to vision is also greatly enlarged in human beings.
Brain evolution, from the earliest
shrewlike
mammals through
primates
to
hominids , is marked by a steady increase in
encephalization , or the ratio of brain to body size. The
human brain has been estimated to contain 50–100 billion (10 11 )
neurons , of which about 10 billion (10 10 ) are
cortical pyramidal cells . These cells pass signals to each
other via as many as 1000 trillion (10 15 ) synaptic
connections
[2] .
The brain monitors and regulates the body's actions and
reactions. It continuously receives sensory information, and
rapidly analyzes this data and then responds, controlling bodily
actions and functions. The
brainstem
controls breathing, heart rate, and other
autonomic
processes. The
neocortex
is the center of higher-order thinking, learning,
and memory. The
cerebellum
is responsible for the body's balance, posture,
and the coordination of movement.
In spite of the fact that it is protected by the thick bones
of the skull, suspended in
cerebrospinal fluid , and isolated from the bloodstream by
the
blood-brain barrier , the delicate nature of the human brain
makes it susceptible to many types of damage and disease. The
most common forms of physical damage are
closed head injuries
such as a blow to the head, a
stroke , or poisoning by a wide variety of chemicals that can
act as
neurotoxins . Infection of the brain is rare because of the
barriers that protect it, but is very serious when it occurs.
More common are genetically based diseases [ citation
needed ] , such as
Parkinson's disease ,
multiple sclerosis , and many others. A number of psychiatric
conditions, such as
schizophrenia
and
depression , are widely thought to be caused at least
partially by brain dysfunctions, although the nature of such
brain anomalies is not well understood.
Contents
[ hide ]
1
Structure
1.1
Topography
1.2
Lateralization
2
Sources of information
2.1
EEG
2.2
MEG
2.3
Structural and functional
imaging
2.4
Effects of brain damage
3
Language
4
Pathology
5
See also
6
Notes
7
References
8
External links
[ edit ]
Structure
Bisection of the head of an adult man, showing the
cerebral cortex and underlying white matter
The adult human brain weighs on average about 3  lb
(1.5  kg ) [3]
with a
size
of around 1130
cubic centimetres
(cm 3 ) in women and 1260 cm 3
in men, although there is substantial individual variation. [4]
Men's brains are on average 100g heavier than a woman's, even
when corrected for body size differences [5]
The brain is very soft, having a consistency similar to
soft gelatin
or firm
tofu .
Despite being referred to as "grey matter", the live cortex is
pinkish-beige in color and slightly off-white in the interior.
The photo on the right shows a horizontal slice of the head of
an adult man, from the
National Library of Medicine 's
Visible Human Project . In this project, two human cadavers
(from a man and a woman) were frozen and then sliced into thin
sections, which were individually photographed and digitized.
The slice here is taken from a small distance below the top of
the brain, and shows the cerebral cortex (the convoluted
cellular layer on the outside) and the underlying white matter,
which consists of
myelinated
fiber tracts traveling to and from the cerebral
cortex. At the age of 20, a man has around 176,000 km and a
woman, about 149,000 km of myelinated axons in their brains. [6]
Drawing of the human brain, showing several
important structures
The cerebral hemispheres form the largest part of the human
brain and are situated above most other brain structures. They
are covered with a
cortical layer
with a convoluted topography. [7]
Underneath the
cerebrum
lies the
brainstem , resembling a stalk on which the cerebrum is
attached. At the rear of the brain, beneath the cerebrum and
behind the brainstem, is the
cerebellum , a structure with a horizontally furrowed surface
that makes it look different from any other brain area. The same
structures are present in other mammals, although the cerebellum
is not so large relative to the rest of the brain. As a rule,
the smaller the cerebrum, the less convoluted the cortex. The
cortex of a rat or mouse is almost completely smooth. The cortex
of a dolphin or whale, on the other hand, is more convoluted
than the cortex of a human.
The dominant feature of the human brain is
corticalization .
The cerebral cortex in humans is so large that it overshadows
every other part of the brain. A few subcortical structures show
alterations reflecting this trend. The cerebellum, for example,
has a medial zone connected mainly to subcortical motor areas,
and a lateral zone connected primarily to the cortex. In humans
the lateral zone takes up a much larger fraction of the
cerebellum than in most other mammalian species. Corticalization
is reflected in function as well as structure. In a rat,
surgical removal of the entire cerebral cortex leaves an animal
that is still capable of walking around and interacting with the
environment. [8]
In a human, comparable cerebral cortex damage produces a
permanent state of
coma .
The four lobes of the cerebral cortex
The bones of the human skull
The cerebral cortex is nearly symmetric in outward form, with
left and right hemispheres. Anatomists conventionally divide
each hemisphere into four "lobes", the
frontal lobe ,
parietal lobe ,
temporal lobe , and
occipital lobe . It is important to realize that this
categorization does not actually arise from the structure of the
cortex itself: the lobes are named after the bones of the skull
that overlie them. There is one exception: the border between
the frontal and parietal lobes is shifted backward to the
central sulcus , a deep fold that marks the line where the
primary somatosensory cortex and primary motor cortex come
together.
Researchers who study the functions of the cortex divide it
into three functional categories of regions, or areas. One
consists of the primary sensory areas, which receive signals
from the
sensory nerves
and tracts by way of relay nuclei in the
thalamus . Primary sensory areas include the visual area of
the
occipital lobe , the auditory area in the
temporal lobe , and the somatosensory area in the
parietal lobe . A second category is the primary motor area,
which sends axons down to motor neurons in the brainstem and
spinal chord. This area occupies the rear portion of the frontal
lobe, directly in front of the somatosensory area. The third
category consists of the remaining parts of the cortex, which
are called the
association areas . These areas receive input from the
sensory areas and lower parts of the brain and are involved in
the complex process that we call perception, thought, and
decision making. The amount of association cortex, relative to
the other two categories, increase dramatically as one goes from
simpler mammals, such as the rat and the cat, to more complex
ones, such as the chimpanzee and the human.
[9]
Major gyri and sulci on the lateral surface of the
cortex
The cerebral cortex is essentially a sheet of neural tissue,
folded in a way that allows a large surface area to fit within
the confines of the skull. Each cerebral hemisphere, in fact,
has a total surface area of about 1.3 square feet. [10]
Anatomists call each cortical fold a
sulcus , and the smooth area between folds a
gyrus .
Most human brains show a similar pattern of folding, but there
are enough variations in the shape and placement of folds to
make every brain unique. Nevertheless, the pattern is consistent
enough for each major fold to have a name, for example, the
"superior frontal gyrus", "postcentral sulcus", or
"trans-occipital sulcus". Deep folding features in brain such as
the inter-hemispheric and
lateral fissure , and the
insular cortex
are present in almost all normal subjects.
Brodmann's classification of areas of the cortex
Different parts of the cerebral cortex are involved in
different cognitive and behavioral functions. The differences
show up in a number of ways: the effects of localized brain
damage, regional activity patterns exposed when the brain is
examined using functional imaging techniques, connectivity with
subcortical areas, and regional differences in the cellular
architecture of the cortex. Anatomists describe most of the
cortex—the part they call
isocortex —as having six layers,
but not all layers are apparent in all areas, and even when a
layer is present, its thickness and cellular organization may
vary. Several anatomists have constructed maps of cortical areas
on the basis of variations in the appearance of the layers as
seen with a microscope. One of the most widely used schemes came
from
Brodmann , who split the cortex into 51 different areas and
assigned each a number (anatomists have since subdivided many of
the Brodmann areas [ citation
needed ] ). For example, Brodmann area 1 is the
primary somatosensory cortex, Brodmann area 17 is the primary
visual cortex, and Brodmann area 25 is the anterior cingulate
cortex.
[ edit ]
Topography
Topography of the primary motor cortex, showing
which body part is controlled by each zone
Many of the brain areas Brodmann defined have their own
complex internal structures. In a number of cases, brain areas
are organized into "topographic maps", where adjoining bits of
the cortex correspond to adjoining parts of the body, or of some
more abstract entity. A simple example of this type of
correspondence is the primary motor cortex, a strip of tissue
running along the anterior edge of the central sulcus, shown in
the image to the right. Motor areas innervating each part of the
body arise from a distinct zone, with neighboring body parts
represented by neighboring zones. Electrical stimulation of the
cortex at any point causes a muscle-contraction in the
represented body part. This "somatotopic" representation is not
evenly distributed, however. The head, for example, is
represented by a region about three times as large as the zone
for the entire back and trunk. The size of a zone correlates to
the precision of motor control and sensory discrimination
possible [ citation
needed ] . The areas for the lips, fingers, and
tongue are particularly large, considering the proportional size
of their represented body parts.
In visual areas, the maps are
retinotopic —that is, they reflect the topography of the
retina , the layer of light-activated neurons lining the back
of the eye. In this case too the representation is uneven: the
fovea —the area at the center of the visual field—is greatly
overrepresented compared to the periphery. The visual circuitry
in the human cerebral cortex contains several dozen distinct
retinotopic maps, each devoted to analyzing the visual input
stream in a particular way [ citation
needed ] . The primary visual cortex (Brodmann area
17), which is the main recipient of direct input from the visual
part of the thalamus, contains many neurons that are most easily
activated by edges with a particular orientation moving across a
particular point in the visual field. Visual areas farther
downstream extract features such as color, motion, and shape.
In auditory areas, the primary map is
tonotopic . Sounds are parsed according to frequency (i.e.,
high pitch vs. low pitch) by subcortical auditory areas, and
this parsing is reflected by the primary auditory zone of the
cortex. As with the visual system, there are a number of
tonotopic cortical maps, each devoted to analyzing sound in a
particular way.
Within a topographic map there can sometimes be finer levels
of spatial structure. In the primary visual cortex, for example,
where the main organization is retinotopic and the main
responses are to moving edges, cells that respond to different
edge-orientations are spatially segregated from one another [ citation
needed ] .
[ edit ]
Lateralization
Main article:
Lateralization of brain function
Routing of neural signals from the two eyes to the
brain
Each hemisphere of the brain interacts primarily with one
half of the body, but for reasons that are unclear, the
connections are crossed: the left side of the brain interacts
with the right side of the body, and vice versa. Motor
connections from the brain to the spinal cord, and sensory
connections from the spinal cord to the brain, both cross the
midline at brainstem levels. Visual input follows a more complex
rule: the optic nerves from the two eyes come together at a
point called the
optic chiasm , and half of the fibers from each nerve split
off to join the other. The result is that connections from the
left half of the retina, in both eyes, go to the left side of
the brain, whereas connections from the right half of the retina
go to the right side of the brain. Because each half of the
retina receives light coming from the opposite half of the
visual field, the functional consequence is that visual input
from the left side of the world goes to the right side of the
brain, and vice versa. Thus, the right side of the brain
receives somatosensory input from the left side of the body, and
visual input from the left side of the visual field—an
arrangement that presumably is helpful for visuomotor
coordination.
The corpus callosum, a nerve bundle connecting the
two cerebral hemispheres, with the
lateral ventricles
directly below
The two cerebral hemispheres are connected by a very large
nerve bundle called the
corpus callosum , which crosses the midline above the level
of the thalamus. There are also two much smaller connections,
the
anterior commisure
and hippocampal commisure, as well as
many subcortical connections that cross the midline. The corpus
callosum is the main avenue of communication between the two
hemispheres, though. It connects each point on the cortex to the
mirror-image point in the opposite hemisphere, and also connects
to functionally related points in different cortical areas.
In most respects, the left and right sides of the brain are
symmetrical in terms of function. For example, the counterpart
of the left-hemisphere motor area controlling the right hand is
the right-hemisphere area controlling the left hand. There are,
however, several very important exceptions, involving language
and spatial cognition. In most people, the left hemisphere is
"dominant" for language: a stroke that damages a key language
area in the left hemisphere can leave the victim unable to speak
or understand, whereas equivalent damage to the right hemisphere
would cause only minor impairment to language skills.
A substantial part of our current understanding of the
interactions between the two hemispheres has come from the study
of " split-brain
patients"—people who underwent surgical transection of the
corpus callosum in an attempt to reduce the severity of
epileptic seizures. These patients do not show unusual behavior
that is immediately obvious, but in some cases can behave almost
like two different people in the same body, with the right hand
taking an action and then the left hand undoing it. Most such
patients, when briefly shown a picture on the right side of the
point of visual fixation, are able to describe it verbally, but
when the picture is shown on the left, are unable to describe
it, but may be able to give an indication with the left hand of
the nature of the object shown.
It should be noted that the differences between left and
right hemispheres are greatly overblown in much of the popular
literature on this topic. The existence of differences has been
solidly established, but many popular books go far beyond the
evidence in attributing features of personality or intelligence
to the left or right hemisphere dominance. [ citation
needed ]
[ edit ]
Sources of
information
Information about the structure and function of the human
brain comes from a variety of sources. Most information about
the cellular components of the brain and how they work comes
from studies of animal subjects, using techniques described in
the
brain
article. Some techniques, however, are used mainly in
humans, and therefore are described here.
Computed tomography
of human brain, from
base of the skull
to top, taken with intravenous
contrast medium
[ edit ]
EEG
By placing electrodes on the scalp it is possible to record
the summed electrical activity of the cortex, in a technique
known as
electroencephalography
(EEG). [11]
EEG measures mass changes in population synaptic activity from
the cerebral cortex, but can only detect changes over large
areas of the brain, with very little sensitivity for
sub-cortical activity. EEG recordings can detect events lasting
only a few thousandths of a second. EEG recordings have good
temporal resolution, but poor spatial resolution.
[ edit ]
MEG
Apart from measuring the electric field around the skull it
is possible to measure the magnetic field directly in a
technique known as
magnetoencephalography
(MEG). [12]
This technique has the same temporal resolution as EEG but much
better spatial resolution, although not as good as fMRI. The
greatest disadvantage of MEG is that, because the magnetic
fields generated by neural activity are very weak, the method is
only capable of picking up signals from near the surface of the
cortex, and even then, only neurons located in the depths of
cortical folds ( sulci ) have dendrites oriented in a way
that gives rise to detectable magnetic fields outside the skull.
[ edit ]
Structural and functional imaging
Main article:
Neuroimaging
A scan of the brain using fMRI
There are several methods for detecting brain activity
changes by three-dimensional imaging of local changes in blood
flow. The older methods are
SPECT
and
PET , which depend on injection of radioactive tracers into
the bloodstream. The newest method,
functional magnetic resonance imaging
(fMRI), has
considerably better spatial resolution and involves no
radioactivity. [13]
Using the most powerful magnets currently available, fMRI can
localize brain activity changes to regions as small as one cubic
millimeter. The downside is that the temporal resolution is
poor: when brain activity increases, the blood flow response is
delayed by 1–5 seconds and lasts for at least 10 seconds. Thus,
fMRI is a very useful tool for learning which brain regions are
involved in a given behavior, but gives little information about
the temporal dynamics of their responses. A major advantage for
fMRI is that, because it is non-invasive, it can readily be used
on human subjects.
[ edit ]
Effects
of brain damage
Main article:
Neuropsychology
A key source of information about the function of brain
regions is the effects of damage to them. [14]
In humans, strokes have long provided a "natural laboratory" for
studying the effects of brain damage. Most strokes result from a
blood clot lodging in the brain and blocking the local blood
supply, causing damage or destruction of nearby brain tissue:
the range of possible blockages is very wide, leading to a great
diversity of stroke symptoms. Analysis of strokes is limited by
the fact that damage often crosses into multiple regions of the
brain, not along clear-cut borders, making it difficult to draw
firm conclusions.
[ edit ]
Language
Location of two brain areas that play a critical
role in language,
Broca's area
and
Wernicke's area
In human beings, it is the left hemisphere that usually
contains the specialized language areas. While this holds true
for 97% of right-handed people, about 19% of left-handed people
have their language areas in the right hemisphere and as many as
68% of them have some language abilities in both the left and
the right hemisphere. The two hemispheres are thought to
contribute to the processing and understanding of language: the
left hemisphere processes the
linguistic meaning
of
prosody
(or, the rhythm, stress, and intonation of
connected speech ), while the right hemisphere processes the
emotions conveyed by prosody. [15]
Studies of children have shown that if a child has damage to the
left hemisphere, the child may develop language in the right
hemisphere instead. The younger the child, the better the
recovery. So, although the "natural" tendency is for language to
develop on the left, human brains are capable of adapting to
difficult circumstances, if the damage occurs early enough.
The first language area within the left hemisphere to be
discovered is
Broca's area , named after
Paul Broca , who discovered the area while studying patients
with
aphasia , a language disorder. Broca's area doesn't just
handle getting language out in a motor sense, though. It seems
to be more generally involved in the ability to process grammar
itself, at least the more complex aspects of grammar. For
example, it handles distinguishing a sentence in passive form
from a simpler subject-verb-object sentence — the difference
between "The boy was hit by the girl" and "The girl hit the
boy."
The second language area to be discovered is called
Wernicke's area , after
Carl Wernicke , a German neurologist who discovered the area
while studying patients who had similar symptoms to Broca's area
patients but damage to a different part of their brain.
Wernicke's aphasia
is the term for the disorder occurring
upon damage to a patient's Wernicke's area.
Wernicke's aphasia does not only affect speech comprehension.
People with Wernicke's aphasia also have difficulty recalling
the names of objects, often responding with words that sound
similar, or the names of related things, as if they are having a
hard time recalling word associations [ citation
needed ] .
[ edit ]
Pathology
A human brain showing
frontotemporal lobar degeneration
causing
frontotemporal dementia
Clinically,
death
is defined as an absence of brain activity as measured by
EEG . Injuries to the brain tend to affect large areas of the
organ, sometimes causing major deficits in intelligence, memory,
personality, and movement. Head trauma caused, for example, by
vehicle or industrial accidents, is a leading cause of death in
youth and middle age. In many cases, more damage is caused by
resultant
edema
than by the impact itself.
Stroke , caused by the blockage or rupturing of blood vessels
in the brain, is another major cause of death from brain damage.
Other problems in the brain can be more accurately classified
as diseases than as injuries.
Neurodegenerative diseases , such as
Alzheimer's disease ,
Parkinson's disease ,
motor neurone disease , and
Huntington's disease
are caused by the gradual death of
individual neurons, leading to diminution in movement control,
memory, and cognition.
Mental disorders , such as
clinical depression ,
schizophrenia ,
bipolar disorder
and
post-traumatic stress disorder
may involve particular
patterns of neuropsychological functioning related to various
aspects of mental and somatic function. These disorders may be
treated by
psychotherapy ,
psychiatric medication
or social intervention and personal
recovery
work; the underlying issues and associated
prognosis vary significantly between individuals.
Some infectious diseases affecting the brain are caused by
viruses
and
bacteria . Infection of the
meninges , the membrane that covers the brain, can lead to
meningitis .
Bovine spongiform encephalopathy
(also known as "mad cow
disease") is deadly in
cattle
and humans and is linked to
prions .
Kuru
is a similar prion-borne degenerative brain disease
affecting humans. Both are linked to the ingestion of neural
tissue, and may explain the tendency in human and some non-human
species to avoid
cannibalism . Viral or bacterial causes have been reported in
multiple sclerosis
and
Parkinson's disease , and are established causes of
encephalopathy , and
encephalomyelitis .
Many brain disorders are
congenital , occurring during development.
Tay-Sachs disease ,
Fragile X syndrome , and
Down syndrome
are all linked to
genetic
and
chromosomal
errors. Many other syndromes, such as the
intrinsic
circadian rhythm
disorders, are suspected to be congenital
as well. Normal
development
of the brain can be altered by genetic factors,
drug use ,
nutritional deficiencies , and
infectious diseases
during
pregnancy .
Certain brain disorders are treated by
neurosurgeons , while others are treated by
neurologists
and
psychiatrists .
Visualization of a
diffusion tensor imaging
(DTI) measurement
of a human
brain . Depicted are reconstructed
axon
tracts that run through the mid- sagittal
plane. Especially prominent are the U-shaped fibers
that connect the two
hemispheres
through the
corpus callosum
(the fibers come out of the
image plane and consequently bend towards the top)
and the fiber tracts that descend toward the
spine
(blue, within the image plane).
[ edit ]
See also
Cephalic disorders , concerning defects of the head,
especially the brain
History of the brain
Lateralization of brain function
Lobes of the brain
Neuroanatomy
Neuroanthropology
Neuroscience
Regions in the human brain
Common misconceptions about the brain
Decade of the Brain
[ edit ]
Notes
^
Johanson, D. C.
(1996).
From Lucy to language .
New York: Simon and Schuster,
p. 80 .
^
Murre, JM; Sturdy, DP
(1995). "The connectivity of the brain: multi-level
quantitative analysis".
Biological cybernetics
73
(6): 529–45.
doi : 10.1007/BF00199545 .
PMID
8527499 .     edit
^
Carpenter's Human
Neuroanatomy , Ch. 1
^
Cosgrove et al., 2007
^
Lynn, Richard (Aug 1994).
"Sex differences in intelligence and brain size: A
paradox resolved." .
Personality and Individual
Differences
Vol 17
(2): 257–271.
doi : 10.1016/0191-8869(94)90030-2 .
http://psycnet.apa.org/?fa=main.doiLanding&uid=1995-13422-001 .
^
Marner L,
Nyengaard JR, Tang Y, Pakkenberg B. (2003). Marked loss
of myelinated nerve fibers in the human brain with age.
J Comp Neurol. 462(2):144-52.
PubMed
^
Principles of Neural Science ,
p 324
^
Vanderwolf et al., 1978
^
Gray
Psychology
2002
^
Toro et al., 2008
^
Fisch and Spehlmann's EEG primer
^
Preissl,
Magnetoencephalography
^
Buxton,
Introduction to
Functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging
^
Andrews,
Neuropsychology
^
Manlove, George (February
2005).
"Deleted Words" . UMaine Today Magazine .
http://umainetoday.umaine.edu/issues/v5i1/stroke.html .
Retrieved 2007-02-09 .
[ edit ]
References
Andrews, DG (2001).
Neuropsychology . Psychology Press.
ISBN
9781841691039 .
http://books.google.com/books?id=kiCtU8wBTfwC .
Buxton, RB (2002).
An Introduction to Functional Magnetic Resonance
Imaging: Principles and Techniques . Cambridge
University Press.
ISBN
9780521581134 .
http://books.google.com/books?id=FordF5AN9vwC .
Campbell, Neil A. and Jane B. Reece. (2005).
Biology . Benjamin Cummings.
ISBN 0-8053-7171-0
Cosgrove, KP; Mazure CM,
Staley JK (2007).
"Evolving knowledge of sex differences in brain
structure, function, and chemistry." .
Biol
Psychiat
62
(8): 847–55.
doi : 10.1016/j.biopsych.2007.03.001 .
PMID
17544382 .
PMC
2711771 .
http://linkinghub.elsevier.com/retrieve/pii/S0006322307001989 .
Fisch, BJ; Spehlmann R (1999).
Fisch and Spehlmann's EEG Primer: Basic Principles of
Digital and Analog EEG. . Elsevier Health
Sciences.
ISBN
9780444821485 .
http://books.google.com/books?id=YMHsluy4QygC .
Gray,
Peter (2002).
Psychology
(4th ed.). Worth
Publishers.
ISBN
0716751623 .
Kandel, ER; Schwartz JH,
Jessel TM (2000).
Principles of Neural Science .
McGraw-Hill Professional.
ISBN
9780838577011 .
Parent, A; Carpenter MB (1995).
Carpenter's Human Neuroanatomy . Williams &
Wilkins.
ISBN
9780683067521 .
http://books.google.com/books?id=IJ5pAAAAMAAJ .
Preissl, H (2005).
Magnetoencephalography . Academic Press.
ISBN
9780123668691 .
http://books.google.com/books?id=ElTJAAAACAAJ .
Simon, Seymour (1999).
The Brain .
HarperTrophy.
ISBN 0-688-17060-9
Thompson, Richard F. (2000).
The Brain: An
Introduction to Neuroscience . Worth Publishers.
ISBN 0-7167-3226-2
Toro, R; Perron M, Pike B, Richer L. Veillette S,
Pausova Z, Paus T (2008).
"Brain size and folding of the human cerebral cortex." .
Cerebral cortex (New York, N.Y. : 1991)
18
(10): 2352–7.
doi : 10.1093/cercor/bhm261 .
PMID
18267953 .
http://cercor.oxfordjournals.org/cgi/content/abstract/18/10/2352 .
Vanderwolf, CH; Kolb;
Cooley (Feb 1978). "Behavior of the rat after removal of
the neocortex and hippocampal formation".
Journal of
comparative and physiological psychology
92
(1): 156–75.
ISSN
0021-9940 .
PMID
564358 .     edit
[ edit ]
External links
The Brain from Top to Bottom
The Whole Brain Atlas
High-Resolution Cytoarchitectural Primate Brain Atlases
Brain Facts and Figures
Current Research Regarding the Human Brain
ScienceDaily
Estimating the computational capabilities of the human brain
When will computer hardware match the human brain?
– an
article by
Hans Moravec
How the human brain works
Everything you wanted to know about the human brain
—
Provided by
New Scientist .
Differences between female & male human brains
Surface Anatomy of the Brain
Scientific American Magazine (May 2005 Issue) His Brain, Her
Brain
About differences between female and male brains.
[ show ]
v   •   d   •   e
Human organ systems
TA
2-4:
musculoskeletal
Skeletal system
Bone  ·
Cartilage
Muscular system
Muscle  ·
Tendon
TA 5-11:
splanchnic
Digestive system
Mouth  ·
Esophagus  ·
Stomach  ·
Colon
Respiratory system
Trachea  ·
Lung
Urinary system
Kidney  ·
Bladder
Reproductive system
Uterus  ·
Vulva  ·
Scrotum  ·
Penis
Endocrine system
Pancreas  ·
Pituitary  ·
Thyroid  ·
Parathyroid
TA 12-16
Circulatory system
Cardiovascular system
( Artery ,
Vein )  ·
Lymphatic system
N/S
Nervous system
( Brain ,
Spinal cord ,
Nerve )  ·
Sensory system
Integumentary system
Skin  ·
Subcutaneous tissue
Non-TA
Immune system
[ show ]
v   •   d   •   e
Neuropsychology
Topics
Brain-computer interface  ·
Traumatic brain injury  ·
Brain regions  ·
Clinical neuropsychology  ·
Cognitive neuroscience  ·
Human brain  ·
Neuroanatomy  ·
Neurophysiology  ·
Phrenology  ·
Misconceptions
Brain functions
Arousal  ·
Attention  ·
Consciousness  ·
Decision making  ·
Executive functions  ·
Natural language  ·
Learning  ·
Memory  ·
Motor coordination  ·
Sensory perception  ·
Planning  ·
Problem solving  ·
Thought
People
Arthur L. Benton  ·
David Bohm  ·
António Damásio  ·
Phineas Gage  ·
Norman Geschwind  ·
Elkhonon Goldberg  ·
Donald O. Hebb  ·
Kenneth Heilman  ·
Edith Kaplan  ·
Muriel Lezak  ·
Benjamin Libet  ·
Rodolfo Llinás  ·
Alexander Luria  ·
Brenda Milner  ·
Karl H. Pribram  ·
Oliver Sacks  ·
Roger W. Sperry  ·
H. M.  ·
K. C.
Tests
Bender-Gestalt Test  ·
Benton Visual Retention Test  ·
Clinical Dementia Rating  ·
Continuous Performance Task  ·
Glasgow Coma Scale  ·
Hayling and Brixton tests  ·
Johari window  ·
Lexical decision task  ·
Mini-mental state examination  ·
Stroop effect  ·
Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale  ·
Wisconsin card sorting
Mind and Brain Portal
[ show ]
v   •   d   •   e
Nervous system
( TA
A14 ,
GA 9 )
Central nervous system
Meninges
Spinal cord
Brain :
Rhombencephalon
( Medulla
oblongata ,
Pons ,
Cerebellum ) •
Mesencephalon  •
Prosencephalon
( Diencephalon ,
Telencephalon )
Peripheral nervous system
Somatic
Sensory nerve  •
Motor nerve  •
Cranial nerves  •
Spinal nerves
Autonomic
Sympathetic  •
Parasympathetic  •
Enteric nervous system
central nervous system
navs:
anat / physio / dev ,
noncongen / congen / neoplasia ,
symptoms+signs / eponymous ,
proc
peripheral nervous system
navs:
anat / histo / physio / dev ,
noncongen PNS somatic / autonomic / congen / neoplasia ,
symptoms+signs / eponymous ,
proc
[ show ]
v   •   d   •   e
Human brain :
rhombencephalon ,
myelencephalon :
medulla
( TA
A14.1.04 ,
GA 9.767 )
Dorsal
Surface
Posterior median sulcus  ·
Posterolateral sulcus  ·
Area postrema  ·
Vagal trigone  ·
Hypoglossal trigone  ·
Medial eminence
Grey :
Cranial nuclei
afferent:
GVA :
VII,IX,X: Solitary / tract / Dorsal
respiratory group  ·
SVA :
Gustatory nucleus  ·
GSA :
VIII-v
( Lateral ,
Medial ,
Inferior )
efferent:
GSE :
XII
·
GVE :
IX,X,XI: Ambiguus  ·
SVE :
X: Dorsal  ·
IX: Inferior salivatory nucleus
Grey : other
Gracile nucleus  ·
Cuneate nucleus  ·
Accessory cuneate nucleus
White : Sensory/ascending
Sensory decussation
·
Medial lemniscus  ·
Inferior cerebellar peduncle
( Juxtarestiform
body )  ·
Ascending dorsal longitudinal
fasciculus  ·
MLF, III, IV and VI
White : Motor/descending
Descending dorsal longitudinal
fasciculus  ·
MLF, III, IV and VI
Ventral
White : Motor/descending
Motor decussation  ·
Olivocerebellar tract  ·
Rubro-olivary tract
Grey matter
Ventral respiratory group  ·
Arcuate nucleus of medulla  ·
Inferior olivary nucleus
Surface
Anterior median fissure  ·
Antero-lateral sulcus  ·
Olive  ·
Pyramid
Grey : Raphe/
reticular
Reticular formation
( Gigantocellular ,
Parvocellular ,
Ventral ,
Lateral ,
Paramedian )  ·
Raphe nuclei
( Obscurus ,
Magnus ,
Pallidus )
[ show ]
v   •   d   •   e
Human brain ,
rhombencephalon ,
metencephalon :
pons
( TA
A14.1.05.101-604 ,
GA 9.785 )
Dorsal/
( tegmentum )
Surface
Cerebellopontine angle  ·
Superior medullary velum  ·
Sulcus limitans  ·
Medial eminence  ·
Facial colliculus
White : Sensory/ascending
Trapezoid body/VIII  ·
Trigeminal lemniscus
( Dorsal
trigeminal tract ,
Ventral trigeminal tract )  ·
Medial lemniscus  ·
Lateral lemniscus
MLF, III, IV and VI :
Vestibulo-oculomotor fibers
Anterior trigeminothalamic tract  ·
Central tegmental tract
White : Motor/descending
ICP
( Vestibulocerebellar
tract )
MLF, III, IV and VI :
Vestibulospinal tract
( Medial
vestibulospinal tract ,
Lateral vestibulospinal tract )
Grey :
Cranial nuclei
afferent:
GSA :
Principal V / Spinal
V  ·
VIII-c
( Dorsal ,
Anterior )/ VIII-v
( Superior )
efferent:
SVE :
Motor V
·
VII  ·
GSE :
VI  ·
GVE :
VII: Superior salivary nucleus
Other grey
Apneustic center  ·
Pneumotaxic center
( Medial
parabrachial nucleus )  ·
Lateral parabrachial nucleus  ·
Superior olivary nucleus  ·
Caerulean nucleus
Ventral/
( base )
Grey
Pontine nuclei
White : Motor/descending
Corticospinal tract  ·
Corticobulbar tract  ·
Corticopontine fibers
MCP
( Pontocerebellar
fibers )
Surface
Basilar sulcus
Other grey: Raphe/
reticular
Reticular formation
( Caudal ,
Oral ,
Tegmental ,
Paramedian )  ·
Raphe nuclei
( Median )
[ show ]
v   •   d   •   e
Human brain :
mesencephalon
(midbrain) ( TA
A14.1.06 ,
GA 9.800 )
Tectum
(Dorsal)
Surface
Corpora quadrigemina :
Inferior colliculi
( Brachium
of inferior colliculus ),
Superior colliculi
( Brachium
of superior colliculus )
Grey matter
Pretectal area
White : Sensory/ascending
Spinotectal tract  ·
Central tegmental tract
White : Motor/descending
Tectospinal tract
Peduncle
(Ventral)
Peduncle
tegmentum
White : Sensory/ascending
lemnisci
( Medial ,
Lateral )  ·
Ascending MLF
( Vestibulo-oculomotor
fibers )  ·
Spinothalamic tract  ·
Anterior trigeminothalamic
tract  ·
Dentatothalamic tract
White : Motor/descending
Rubrospinal tract  ·
Rubro-olivary tract  ·
Descending MLF
Grey :
cranial nuclei
GSA
( V:
Mesencephalic ) -
GSE
( III:
Oculomotor ,
IV: Trochlear ) -
GVE
( III:
Edinger-Westphal )
Grey : other
Periaqueductal gray / Raphe
nuclei
( Dorsal
raphe nucleus )
Ventral tegmental area  •
Pedunculopontine nucleus  •
Red nucleus
riMLF
Ventricular system
Cerebral aqueduct
Peduncle base
White : Motor/descending
Cerebral crus :
Corticospinal tract  ·
Corticobulbar tract  ·
Corticopontine tract / Frontopontine
fibers / Temporopontine
fibers
Grey :
Substantia nigra
Pars compacta  ·
Pars reticulata
Surface
Superior cerebellar peduncle
( Decussation
of superior cerebellar
peduncles )  ·
Interpeduncular fossa
[ show ]
v   •   d   •   e
Human brain ,
rhombencephalon ,
metencephalon :
cerebellum
( TA
14.1.07 ,
GA 9.788 )
Surface anatomy
Lobes
Anterior lobe  ·
Posterior lobe
( Horizontal
fissure )  ·
Flocculonodular lobe
( Flocculus ,
Nodule )
Primary fissure
Medial/lateral
Vermis :
anterior
( Central
lobule ,
Culmen ,
Lingula )  ·
posterior
( Folium ,
Tuber ,
Uvula )  ·
Vallecula of cerebellum
Hemisphere :
anterior
( Alar
central lobule )  ·
posterior
( Biventer
lobule ,
Cerebellar tonsil )
Grey matter
Deep cerebellar nuclei
Dentate  ·
interposed
( Emboliform ,
Globose )  ·
Fastigial
Cerebellar cortex
Molecular layer
( Stellate
cell ,
Basket cell ) Purkinje cell
layer
( Purkinje
cell ,
Bergmann glia cell = Golgi
epithelial cell )
Granule cell layer
( Golgi
cell ,
Granule cell ,
Unipolar brush cell )
Fibers:
Mossy fibers  ·
Climbing fiber  ·
Parallel fiber
White matter
Internal
Arbor vitae
Peduncles
Inferior
(medulla):
Dorsal spinocerebellar tract  ·
Olivocerebellar tract  ·
Cuneocerebellar tract  ·
Juxtarestiform body
( Vestibulocerebellar
tract )
Middle
(pons):
Pontocerebellar fibers
Superior
(midbrain):
Ventral spinocerebellar tract  ·
Dentatothalamic tract  ·
Trigeminocerebellar fibers
[ show ]
v   •   d   •   e
Human brain :
diencephalon
( TA
A14.1.08 ,
GA 9.807 )
Epithalamus
Surface
Pineal body  ·
Habenula  ·
Habenular trigone  ·
Habenular commissure
Grey matter
Pretectal area  ·
Habenular nuclei  ·
Subcommissural organ
Thalamus
Surface
Stria medullaris of thalamus  ·
Thalamic reticular nucleus  ·
Taenia thalami
Grey matter /
nuclei
paired:
AN  ·
Ventral
( VA / VL ,
VP / VPM / VPL )  ·
Lateral
( LD ,
LP ,
Pulvinar )  ·
Metathalamus
( MG ,
LG )
midline:
MD  ·
Intralaminar
( Centromedian )  ·
Midline nuclear group  ·
Interthalamic adhesion
White matter
Mammillothalamic fasciculus  ·
Pallidothalamic tracts
( Ansa
lenticularis ,
Lenticular fasciculus ,
Thalamic fasciculus )  ·
PCML
( Medial
lemniscus ,
Trigeminal lemniscus )  ·
Spinothalamic tract  ·
Lateral lemniscus  ·
Dentatothalamic tract  ·
Acoustic radiation  ·
Optic radiation  ·
Subthalamic fasciculus  ·
Anterior trigeminothalamic tract
Medullary laminae
Hypothalamus
Surface
Median eminence / Tuber
cinereum  ·
Mammillary body  ·
Infundibulum
Grey matter
Autonomic
zones
Anterior
(parasympathetic/heat loss)  ·
Posterior (sympathetic/heat
conservation)
Endocrine
posterior pituitary :
magnocellular / Paraventricular / Supraoptic
( oxytocin / vasopressin )
other:
parvocellular / Arcuate
(dopamine/GHRH)  ·
Preoptic (GnRH)  ·
Suprachiasmatic (melatonin)
Emotion
Lateral (hunger)  ·
Ventromedial (satiety)  ·
Dorsomedial (rage)
White matter
afferent
( SN
→
Medial forebrain bundle )  ·
efferent
( Mammillothalamic
fasciculus
→
AN ,
Stria terminalis
→
Amygdala ,
Dorsal longitudinal fasciculus
→
SC )
Pituitary
Posterior
is diencephalon, but
anterior
is glandular
Subthalamus
Subthalamic nucleus  ·
Zona incerta
Ventricular system :
Third ventricle
recesses:
( Optic
recess ,
Infundibular recess ,
Suprapineal recess ,
Pineal recess )
Hypothalamic sulcus  ·
Tela chorioidea of third ventricle
Subfornical organ
Apertures:
Interventricular/Monro
Posterior commissure
[ show ]
v   •   d   •   e
Human brain :
forebrain
( cerebrum  ·
cerebral cortex  ·
cerebral hemispheres ,
grey matter ) ( TA
A14.1.09.002-240, 301-320 ,
GA 9.818-826 )
Frontal lobe
Superolateral
Prefrontal
Superior frontal gyrus
( 4l ,
6l ,
8l )  ·
Middle frontal gyrus
( 9l ,
10l ,
46 )
Inferior frontal gyrus :
11l  ·
47 - Pars
orbitalis  ·
Broca's area
( 44 - Pars
opercularis ,
45 - Pars
triangularis )
Superior frontal sulcus  ·
Inferior frontal sulcus
Precentral
Precentral gyrus  ·
Precentral sulcus
Medial/inferior
Prefrontal
Superior frontal gyrus
( 4m ,
6m )  ·
Medial frontal gyrus
( 8m ,
9m )
Paraterminal gyrus / Paraolfactory
area
( 12 )  ·
Straight gyrus
( 11m )  ·
Orbital gyri / Orbitofrontal
cortex
( 10m ,
11m ,
12 )  ·
Ventromedial prefrontal
cortex
( 10m )  ·
Subcallosal area
( 25 )
Olfactory sulcus  ·
Orbital sulci
Precentral
Paracentral lobule
( 4 )  ·
Paracentral sulcus
Both
Primary motor cortex
( 4 )  ·
Premotor cortex
( 6 )  ·
Supplementary motor area
( 6 )  ·
Frontal eye fields
( 8 )
Parietal lobe
Superolateral
Superior parietal lobule
( 5l ,
7l )  ·
Inferior parietal lobule
( 40 - Supramarginal
gyrus ,
39 - Angular
gyrus )  ·
Parietal operculum
( 43 )
Intraparietal sulcus
Medial/inferior
Paracentral lobule
(1m, 2m, 3m,
5m )  ·
Precuneus
( 7m )
Marginal sulcus
Both
Postcentral gyrus/primary
somatosensory cortex
(1  ·
2  ·
3)  ·
Secondary somatosensory cortex
( 5 )  ·
Posterior parietal cortex
( 7 )
Occipital lobe
Superolateral
Occipital pole of cerebrum  ·
Lateral occipital gyrus
( 18 ,
19 )  ·
Lunate sulcus  ·
Transverse occipital sulcus
Medial/inferior
Primary visual cortex
(17)  ·
Cuneus  ·
Lingual gyrus
Calcarine fissure
Temporal lobe
Superolateral
Transverse temporal gyrus / Primary
auditory cortex
( 41 ,
42 )  ·
Superior temporal gyrus
( 38 ,
22 / Wernicke's
area )  ·
Middle temporal gyrus
( 21 )  ·
Inferior temporal gyrus
( 20 )
Superior temporal sulcus  ·
Inferior temporal sulcus
Medial/inferior
Fusiform gyrus
( 37 )
Medial temporal lobe
(( 27  ·
28  ·
34  ·
35  ·
36 ))
Inferior temporal sulcus
Interlobar
sulci/fissures
Superolateral
Central (frontal+parietal)  ·
Lateral (frontal+parietal+temporal)  ·
Parieto-occipital  ·
Preoccipital notch
Medial/inferior
Medial longitudinal  ·
Cingulate (frontal+cingulate )  ·
Collateral (temporal+occipital)  ·
Callosal sulcus
Limbic lobe
Parahippocampal gyrus
anterior
( Entorhinal
cortex ,
Perirhinal cortex )  ·
Posterior parahippocampal gyrus  ·
Prepyriform area
Cingulate cortex / gyrus
Subgenual area
( 25 )  ·
Anterior cingulate
( 24 ,
32 ,
33 )  ·
Posterior cingulate
( 23 ,
31 )
Isthmus of cingulate gyrus :
Retrosplenial cortex
( 26 ,
29 ,
30 )
Hippocampal formation
Hippocampal sulcus  ·
Fimbria of hippocampus  ·
Dentate gyrus
Other
Supracallosal gyrus  ·
Uncus
Insular lobe
Long gyrus of insula  ·
Short gyri of insula  ·
Circular sulcus of insula
General
Operculum  ·
Poles of cerebral hemispheres
Some categorizations are approximations, and
some
Brodmann areas
span gyri.
Retrieved from " http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Human_brain "
Categories :
Central nervous system
|
Brain
Hidden categories:
All articles with unsourced statements
|
Articles with unsourced statements from May 2009
|
Articles with unsourced statements from September 2009