Video Updates: Pontypool & The Motif of Harmful Sensation
Tuesday, August 4, 2009
Pontypool & The Motif of Harmful Sensation
Danger! The following post contains a dangerous, highly contagious meme, as well as major spoilers for the excellent new film
Pontypool .
For your safety and the safety of all you communicate with, do not read any of the red text below.
I repeat, do not read the red text. The 'motif of harmful sensation' is an inelegant term for a concept that occasionally crops up in horror and speculative fiction in which mental or physical injury is sustained through a perception rather than physical interaction. Instead of axes, chainsaws, and machine guns, damage is done via sounds, imagery, or even abstract thought itself.
(A million points to anyone who successfully coins a better term.) There is an immediate and powerful common-sense impulse to immediately dismiss the concept as absurd, but there are plenty of less fanciful examples of harmful sensory input in the real world.
For instance, the eyes and ears can be easily damaged by overloading; if you doubt this, stare directly into the sun while listening to Slayer on your iPod with the
volume turned way up .
Some sufferers of
epilepsy
will lapse into dangerous seizures when exposed to pulsing lights or Pokemon cartoons, while everyone can be psychologically harmed by traumatic sensory input. (Such as a recording of the untimely demise of a loved one.) When a fanciful imagination combines this relatively mundane concept with the philosophical gray area between the brick and mortar reality around us and the perception filtered reality in our heads, the idea of harmful sensation spirals outwards.
One of the earliest and most famous examples comes from the mythological
Medusa , a gorgon so monstrous that any who looked upon her would turn to stone. She is eventually slain by Perseus, who only looks at her reflection during the battle, thanks to a mirrored shield.
This loophole implies that it is not merely her epic ugliness that calcifies her victims, but some sort of magic radiation that is not reflected with the visible spectrum.
Of course it is possible the polished bronze shield was not a perfect mirror, giving the hero enough information for combat purposes while leaving the lethal details indistinct. Modern tales of harmful sensation often focus on technology; specifically how society's newfound ability to easily record, duplicate, and spread information could become a vector for spreading a pandemic if a chunk of that info became toxic.
In David Cronenberg's infinitely excellent
Videodrome , a small time pornographic broadcaster becomes embroiled in a massive conspiracy after discovering a mysterious video signal that causes hallucinations, mind control, and possibly physical mutations in anyone who sees it.
Since overexposure causes madness and death, the sinister forces of purity want to implant the signal behind the porno in order to infect the population's undesirables. In the aptly named
The Signal , a similar madness inducing broadcast is sent out across all phones, radios, and televisions, both disrupting normal communications and driving everyone rather nutty.
Like the
Videodrome
signal, the effect is irreversible and its intensity correlates with the length of exposure, but rather than being surreptitiously hidden behind certain programming, it is blasted across all mediums as aural white noise and trippy visuals. In the realm of J-horror, harmful sensations are also found lurking within various technological marvels, but unlike the West, they are almost exclusively supernatural in origin. In
The Ring
series, a cursed videotape created by the malevolent spirit of a troubled psychic causes its viewers to be killed by said spirit exactly seven days later. In Kiyoshi Kurosawa's
epic
Pulse
(aka
Kairo ) ghosts invade the world via the internet and begin draining everyone's will to live via making scary eye contact with them. In all of the above examples, be they based in science or spirituality, the harmful sensation is transmitted directly through the act of observation.
The damage is done directly by the malicious photons or sound-waves entering the sensory organs, whether or not the victim is even consciously aware of it.
In the Canadian pseudo-zombie flick
Pontypool
and its ilk, the concept of harmful sensation becomes even more abstract.
Videodrome
(also Canadian) involves what is essentially killer visual radiation;
Pontypool , on the other hand, trembles in fear of the dread 'killer meme.' Memes , as you should know (you are using the internet, after all) are chunks of cultural data that can be passed from brain to brain.
They can take the form of lolcats, jokes, masturbation techniques, songs that get stuck in your head, and basically the entirety of Internet culture.
In one of Mark Twain's lesser known tales " A Literary Nightmare ," the narrator becomes obsessed with a catchy jingle he sees in the newspaper (How does that even work? Does it come with sheet music?) and finds his brain crippled by distraction.
After inadvertently infecting a friend, he finds himself cured, then helps his victim find similar relief by spreading it to a university class. Like in
The Ring , the only relief is to continue circulating the meme/jingle/evil tape, but as it is a memetic harmful sensation, Twain had to understand the jingle in order to be affected by it. A meme in a foreign language is rendered powerless by its incomprehensibility. Monty Python's Flying Circus portrayed the prototypical killer meme with the " Funniest Joke in the World " sketch, where the English discover a joke so funny that all who hear it die laughing. After sacrificing many lives to contain the joke, they translate it into German to use in World War II.
The process has to be done one word at a time, as even viewing two in sequence causes hospitalization, but proves quite effective on the battlefield. The Brits can merely read the joke phonetically to slaughter whole battalions, and never have to understand the fatal witticism themselves. Not too many nuggets of information can induce the massive emotional responses required for lethality, so instead of a factoid or joke, the 1980s era Twilight Zone episode " Need to Know '' has at the center of its harmful sensation, nothing less than the very meaning of life. The dude from CSI has to help Francis McDormand find out why a small town is going insane, and they discover that a local weirdo back recently from 'the East' (dun-dun-du-un!) has figured out the meaning to existence, which naturally drives all who learn it hopelessly insane. The Medium is the Message The
Videodrome
signal is more important that the video image carrying it, and not all malevolent memes are simple deliveries of forbidden or obsessive knowledge.
As the concept climbs higher and higher, the act of understanding itself is subverted.
In the cyberpunk thriller
Snow Crash , the Sumerian tongue turns out to be a sort of proto-language upon which other languages are built, allowing those who understand it to be programmed like computers.
It was abandoned after some mean person introduces a linguistic virus that crashes brains faster than [witty software joke not found].
The virus is later recreated as a black and white bitmap that only affects those familiar with binary code. This all brings us to
Pontypool , which is such a fan of
Snow Crash
that it uses a copy of the book as a prop.
In the film, a small town radio station is caught between a snowstorm and a mysterious plague of violent madness that is slowly revealed to be spread through the English language itself.
Unlike previous examples, the damage is not tied to any specific chunk of information, but jumps around from word to word.
Terms of endearment are apparently particularly susceptible, but no English word is truly safe.
People seem to be initially infected via exposure to the mad ramblings of other victims, but do not start showing advanced symptoms until they attempt to express themselves with certain specific words. In this case, spreading the meme is integral to its dangerous nature. They become confused by the words and begin repeating them, apparently unable to resolve something in their head.
Eventually the disorder renders them completely unable to communicate or think properly, and in the final stages they violently attack anyone (or anything) that is producing intelligible speech before ultimately expiring. The film never establishes its rules in stone (perhaps the novel it is adapted from does) due to the limited information available to the characters, but they manage to find a few loopholes nonetheless.
Only spoken English is affected; using broken French, writing, and thinking (at least pre-symptoms) are relatively safe.
Once a person starts showing the first symptoms, there are two courses of action explored in the film: either they can produce an endless stream of non-English speech to prevent themselves from focusing on their infected word, or they can attempt to rob the word of its meaning.
One character postulates that the infection copies itself during the act of understanding a word, but unfortunately this is usually a reflex rather than a conscious act. *Mega Spoiler* During the climax, the last survivors manage to (at least temporarily) save a character by chanting a nonsense phrase intended to make the word seem alien, halting the infection in its tracks instead of letting it spread through the victim's desperate, disordered attempts to 'understand'. *Mega Spoiler Over* Starring a
real life Mummy ... who is actually pretty awesome. There has already been some mild criticism of
Pontypool
for its outlandish premise.
Obviously there is absolutely no scientific basis for a virus that can be transmitted through language, but the fact is that the film's trapped characters are merely using the term ' virus ' as a stopgap for a concept that they don't (and possibly can't) ever fully understand.
Like a virus, it is dangerous and transmissible, but that is the extent of the similarities. (It should be noted that
Snow Crash 's virus does make the jump to the physical world.) A more apt comparision for the
Pontypool
disorder would be
prions , which are infectious particles of mis-folded protein responsible for diseases like
mad cow
or
Kuru , the cannibalism spread 'laughing' disease. Prions generally infect the brain tissue, and as more and more proteins fall victim, the organ is essentially eaten away.
This is not to say that the disease is literally a prion, but it does function in a very similar way.
Rather than a mis-folded protein, it's a scrambled meme. It wreaks havoc on those who fall under its influence then uses them to spread itself to more victims. It's hard to predict where harmful sensations will pop up next. I'm pretty sure
Pontypool
is scraping the ceiling of this highest of high concepts, but as information technology continues its rapid clip, there will be innumerable opportunities to apply the idea.
My best guess is that we will see the rise of the
Deadly Tweet
in the not too distant future. For a zombie centric take on the film, check out
Where the Long Tail Ends .
From the desk of
Knarf Black XIV
at
7:26 PM
Tags:
Harmful Sensation ,
Meme ,
Pontypool ,
Snow Crash ,
Videodrome
6 comments:
Mr. Cat August 6, 2009 at 6:22 AM One day, years from now, the motif will return home to roost in Wikipedia.
:3 Reply Delete Knarf Black XIV August 6, 2009 at 7:40 AM In that they'll reinstate
the article
about it, or that a Wiki page will start killing us all? Either way I'm all for it. Reply Delete Mr. Cat August 6, 2009 at 4:31 PM As I would probably visit it, preferrably only the former :] Reply Delete hagiblog September 1, 2009 at 1:38 PM Cool to see some other films listed here that explore the same sort of territory, especially since I haven't really heard of many of them. Just more films to add to the list! Reply Delete Your Obedient Serpent September 7, 2009 at 2:38 AM (A million points to anyone who successfully coins a better term.) Brown Note. Reply Delete chris janowiak January 21, 2010 at 12:29 AM AHHHHH a tvtropes link. There goes my next four hours, thanks Serpent. Reply Delete Add comment Load more...
Newer Post
Older Post
Home
Subscribe to:
Post Comments (Atom)
Smart writing about dumb cinema Occasionally the reverse. Danger: Contains spoilers, salty language, and occasional NSFW imagery.
Search Video Updates
Loading...
Blog Archive
►
2012
(1)
►
May
(1)
►
2011
(4)
►
June
(1)
►
May
(1)
►
March
(1)
►
January
(1)
►
2010
(5)
►
May
(1)
►
April
(1)
►
March
(1)
►
February
(1)
►
January
(1)
▼
2009
(96)
►
December
(3)
►
November
(6)
►
October
(10)
►
September
(2)
▼
August
(6)
Mini Review: The Red Shoes (2005)
Technical Difficulties
The Devil's Rain (1975)
Someone Please Make This: Videodrome Videogame
Pontypool & The Motif of Harmful Sensation
The Killer Meme
►
July
(9)
►
June
(3)
►
May
(9)
►
April
(6)
►
March
(10)
►
February
(18)
►
January
(14)
Videos Updated
Daisies (1966) The Anniversary (1968) Venus in Furs (1970) The Telephone Book (1971) Killdozer! (1974) The Devil's Rain (1975) Prophecy (1979) Evilspeak (1981) Pulgasari (1985) Chopping Mall (1986) Jumpin' Jack Flash (1986) Slaughter High (1986) Salvation! (1987) Shocker (1989) Society (1989) Class of 1999 (1990) Hardware (1990) I Come in Peace (1990) Body Melt (1993) Ghost in the Machine (1993) Man's Best Friend (1993) Nemesis (1993) The Rats (2002) Grindhouse (2007) The Telephone Game (2011)
Everyone Likes Lists!
Killer Petroleum Movies Traumatic Cinematic Experiences CGI Wangs
Subscribe to VU
About Me
Knarf Black XIV
Saint Paul, Minnesota, United States
I'm addicted to using parentheses, (Ooooh, that's the stuff) I watch a lot of very strange and/or obscure movies, I love videogames, I make promotional videos for sporting goods, I have a totally sweet dog who is lazier than I am, and I will most likely never finish the Sci-Fi novel I'm writing.
View my complete profile
The Peanut Gallery
" Excellent resource " -Dangerousminds.net " Thoughtful " -Dr. Geoffrey Martin Rockwell Ph.D. " очень детальный и познавательный анализ " -Russian Blogger " And man, I LOVE your header! " -Stacie Ponder " You oversexed western prick " -Anonymous Commenter "Update your damn blog already" -My reader
Also Cool
Final Girl
...and that's a wrap!
1 hour ago
kindertrauma
Happy Halloween 2015! Love, Kindertrauma
1 day ago
Where the Long Tail Ends
Challenge! Podcast – They Live
1 day ago
House of Self-Indulgence
Vampire's Kiss (Robert Bierman, 1988)
2 days ago
Mad Mad Mad Mad Movies
Super Xuxa versus Satan (1988): or, Brazilian Wacks
7 months ago
baD kARmA INk
Can you SQL like a pig?
1 year ago
Arbogast on Film
Get Your October Face On!
2 years ago
Love Train for the Tenebrous Empire
The Love Train is Moving - Update Your Bookmarks
2 years ago
Diary of Fools.
My Year of Flops
I-Mockery
Stomp Tokyo
Bloody-Disgusting
Switchblade Comb
Zero Punctuation
Take-Up Productions
BadMovies.org
Follow My Inane Tweets
Follow My Dumb Ass on Twitter
follow me on Twitter
VUTBAPT
Carol Cleveland
Video Updates TV
I'm a Huge Nerd
ZwortnikK
Index
2001
Acid Pee
Action
Advertising
Alice in Wonderland
Alien
Alternate History
Anchor Bay Week
Angry Rant
Animation
Apocalypse
Asian Cinema
Australia
B-Movie
Basement Cinema
Begotten
Bette Davis
Blu Ray
BMWT Award
Body Horror
Body Melt
Cannon Films
Carol Cleveland
Carved
Cathode Ray Tube
Chopping Mall
Cinema
Civilization
Class of 1999
Class Warfare
Clint Howard
Cloudy With a Chance of Meatballs
Comedy
Comics
Coming Attractions
Cosmos
Cows
Creature Feature
Cronenberg
Cyberpunk
Cyborgsploitation
Czech Film
Daisies
Dead Rising
Demonic Possession
Diary of Fools
Dictatorships
Digital Wangs
Documentary
Dogs
Dolph Lundgren
Don't Mess with the Zohan
Dragon Wars
Eco-Horror
El Topo
End of the World
Evil Technology
Evilspeak
Exclamation Points
Excuses
Experimental Film
Exploitation
Fantasy
FeardotCom
Feminism
Film School
Filthy Lies
Final Girl Film Club
Flowchart
Found Footage
Friday the 13th
Geek Apparel
Ghost in the Machine
Good Movies
Goofy Faces of Death
Gore
Greyduck
Grindhouse
Hardware
Harmful Sensation
Hausu
Head for the Hills
Heavy Metal
Hell
High Defintion
Hillbillies
Horror
How do you fuck that up?
Humor
I Come in Peace
Imaginary Soundtracks
In Clamatore
Indie Film
Isolation
Italian Cinema
Japanese Ghosts
Jess Franco
Jumpin' Jack Flash
Kaiju Films
Kairo
Kiddie Movies
Kill Faces
Killbots
Killdozer
Killer Animals
Killer Inanimate Objects
Killer Mutant Mammal Week
Killer Rats
Kim Jong-il
Kontroll
Korea
Kung Fu
Lance Henriksen
Last House on the Left
Lists
Man's Best Friend
Manhunter
Mannequins
Marco Brambilla
Masters of Horror
Math
May Day
Mean Moms
Melora
Meme
Mini-Review
Minnesota
Monkeys
Monolith
Monty Python
Movie Posters
Movie Trailers
multiverse
Nadya Suleman
Nemesis
Netflix
New Cinema
New on DVD
News Flash
Nudity
Obscenity
Octuplets
Off Topic
Oil Monsters
Phantoms
Phoonk 2
Plagarism
Pontypool
Population 436
Pornography
Prophecy
Prototype
Psychic Powers
Pulgasari
Racism
Racist Cartoons
Randomness
Rapture
Red Son
Remakes
Resident Evil
Return of Alice
Review
Riki-Oh: The Story of Ricky
Robert Urich
Roger Corman
Rural horror
Salvation
Satan
Scanner Cop
Scanners
Sci-Fi
Science
Serial Killers
Shocker
Short Fiction
Slasher Films
Slaughter High
Slit Mouth Woman
Snow Crash
Society
Solipsism
Someone Please Make This
Spacemen
Split Diopter
Stalker
Star Wars Uncut
Stephen McHattie
SuperCuts
Superman
Suspect Zero
Tarkovsky
Televangelism
The Anniversary
The Brood
The Chaos Experiment
The Crazies
The Damned Thing
The Devil's Rain
The Fly
The Human Centipede
The Last Winter
The Moon
The Rats
The Red Shoes
The Telephone Book
The Telephone Game
The Wicker Man
There Will Be Blood
Total Babes
Traumas
TV
TV Movie
Ub Iwerks
Un Chen Andalou
Underground Cinema
Venus in Furs
Vestron Video
VHS
Video Art
Video Corruption
Videodrome
Videogames
Watchmen
Wes Craven
Where the Wild Things Are
William Castle
Women in Prison
Word Cloud
X-Files
X-Rated
Zero Punctuation
Zombies
Whatsimajiggers
Video Updates in your Inbox
Enter your email address: Delivered by
FeedBurner
Lonely Little Tumbleweeds
Video Updates
on Facebook