Under What Circumstance Would You Resort To Cannibalism?
TheGloss
Crushable
TheGrindstone
Mommyish
Blisstree
Gurl
What’s new
Fashion
Beauty
Sex & Dating
Culture
Career
Odds & Ends
Search
8 Questions For
Jacqueline Frances: Stripper, Comedian, And Author Of
The Beaver Show
Gigi Hadid’s Reaction to Landing a Spot in the Victoria’s Secret Fashion Show Is the Cutest Thing Ever
A Ranking of Heidi Klum’s Halloween Costumes, From Amazing to Mind-Blowing
Let Your Favorite
Clue
Suspect Dictate Your Next Nail Polish Purchase
Deborah Lippmann Just Launched
Empire -Inspired Nail Polish That Cookie Lyon Would Approve Of
8 Trends to Shop So You Can Master This Season’s ’70s Craze
Tue, Sep 4 2012
Tweet
←
Previous Post
Next Post
→
Under What Circumstance Would You Resort To Cannibalism?
3 years ago by
Jennifer Wright and Ashley Cardiff
5 Comments »
Share a Tip
"Rudeness."
Last week, our intern
Kate
was trapped in an elevator with a bunch of models (visiting our building for some pre-NYFW castings) and came to the disturbing realization that she’d be eaten first because she had the most body fat. Of course, Kate forgets the first rule of cannibalism: eat them before they eat you. This week, editors
Jennifer Wright
and
Ashley Cardiff
are discussing
something of a favorite topic : people eating and, specifically, what would drive them to it.
Ashley : I would like to begin.
Jennifer : I will sit here not saying anything until you do.
Ashley : A few years ago, my friend “L” told me that if she was ever in a terrible accident and ended up getting a limb amputated, she would insist that her surgeon “save a little.” As in, she wanted to take home a piece of the removed part in order to taste human meat. Although I doubt she believed any doctor would reasonably agree to such a thing, it did get me wondering… would autosarcophagy be an acceptable form of cannibalism? Or still deeply disturbing?
Jennifer : I’m pretty sure your friend does not know how doctors work.
Ashley : I think it’s the “asking for a doggy bag of yourself” that counts.
Jennifer : Well, that’s bizarre. But yes, obviously everyone wants to try human flesh. Like, a little bit. Once. That’s just being a foodie. That’s just like wanting to try blowfish. I think there’s a difference between that and being a full on cannibal. Like, I think you have to eat people at least three times before you can be considered a true cannibal and join the Hannibal Cannibal Club.
Ashley : No way. I think cannibalism is an either/or distinction. You can’t “dabble” in cannibalism. You get hesitantly test the waters when it comes to consuming human flesh. The only time it’s questionable is if it’s your own.
Or if it advances culture, doye.
Jennifer : I don’t think it’s like getting pregnant (insofar as you can’t be a little bit pregnant). I think it’s a thing with shades of grey. Like, if someone offered their corpse up to serve as fodder for some dinner party and it was… grass fed and healthy… I’d be interested in trying it. I think there’s a world of difference between that and me just being that cool guy in
The Road .
Ashley : You have to stop automatically liking everyone who rises to whatever apex of power applies.
Jennifer : HE WAS A SURVIVOR
Ashley : He was “brave.” So brave.
Jennifer : He
didn’t wear any make-up at all
while he rounded up his post apocalyptic food supply of people! Also, his farmhouse had a lovely fireplace, and, I’m guessing, some pretty nice Chianti.
Ashley : So, back to the point, do you have a moral objection to cannibalism? If in an
Alive -type situation (ie, the worst one imaginable) would you eat people? I have less of an objection to eating the dead than, say, a
Fires on the Plain -type situation, where you’re actively picking off others for the express purpose of eating them. Like, killing people seems worse than eating them, is what I’m saying.
Jennifer : Oh! No. We don’t. Actually, as Americans we don’t. Want to hear my favorite story about us as a culture?
Ashley : I guess so.
Jennifer : During the Arctic explorations of the 19th century, many expeditions ended in disaster. Parties of explorers from many countries were forced to turn to cannibalism. This played out in slightly different ways. In many Eastern European countries, for instance, explorers drew straws to see who would sacrifice themselves. British explorers were by far the most noble and, in almost every instance, some member of the party would volunteer himself to die so the rest of the group could survive. Guess what Americans did?
Ashley : Were they rescued by giant eagles with electric guitars?
Exactly.
Jennifer : They beat the weakest member of the party to death in his sleep with rocks. No one ever volunteered. We’re a nation of people who love life too much.
Ashley : That’s one way of looking at it.
Jennifer : I do not read that story and think, “I would have volunteered.” I think, “Why didn’t they save gun bullets better?” We’re a nation of people who aspire to be the cannibal king in
The Road . That’s all I’m saying.
Ashley : I guess that makes me pretty milquetoast for an American? I really don’t like the idea of eating people.
Jennifer : Well, no one likes it. If we liked it, there’d be a Kentucky Fried People on every corner.Also, it’s bad for you. It makes your hands twitch.
Ashley : Is that true? I thought the side effects were increased energy, vigilance, speed and indescribable, almost intoxicating vitality. But most of what I know about cannibalism comes from
Ravenous .
Jennifer : No, that’s wrong, that’s not accurate.  Kuru . And
this . Eating people really isn’t good for you, which is probably why we do not do it. I mean, now. I know we used to consume the hearts of our enemies to absorb their power. And I do mean you and I, specifically. Last month.
Ashley : I think it still
depends on who you’re eating , not that incurable degenerative neurological disorders are the only reason to abstain from cannibalism.
Jennifer : Ashley, you can’t tell that someone is “clean” just by looking at them.
Ashley : Sure you can. That’s how you know if it’s “legitimate people eating.”
Jennifer : If it’s not, your body will reject it and they’ll come back to life!
Even if they were delicious!
Ashley : Let’s wrap it up by naming the circumstances under which you’d resort to cannibalism?
Jennifer : Apocalypse. I will build a people farm. Fuck
carrying the fire .
Ashley : Only the apocalypse? What if the circumstance “no one would ever know” presented itself?
Jennifer : Kuru sounds really awful? Although it does make you laugh uncontrollably and I do like to laugh!
Ashley :
Audrey Hepburn
said it’s the best way to burn calories!
Jennifer : So, you’d eat people if no one would find out?
Ashley : No, I don’t think I could live with the guilt.
Jennifer : I’m not going to let you manage my people farm.
Ashley : But I’m the only one you could trust! I won’t get high on my own supply, as it were.
Jennifer : OKAY. You will be my people farm post-apocalyptic deputy. Let’s go find appropriate outfits.
Ashley : I want to wear cool vintage track suits.
Jennifer : I’m going to dress like a British explorer to fool people!
Ashley : They’ll think you’re capable of noble sacrifice, but you’ll just bludgeon them with rocks while they sleep!
Jennifer : This is such a great plan, buddy! I can’t wait for the apocalypse.
The Editors Discuss:
Chaos, Cannibalism & Dining In The Dark Naked Cannibal Shot Dead By Police In Miami It Could Have Been Me : Gay Porn Star Cannibal Apprehended In My Neighborhood
Share This Post:
Tweet
Related Topics:
Odds & Ends
The Editors Debate
•
Audrey Hepburn
•
cannibalism
•
Cormac McCarthy
•
Hannibal lecter
•
silence of the lambs
•
The-Road
Renee
I would eat myself first. Because that is why I have been fattening myself up all these years. I don’t even have to do any cooking, my body will do it on
a cellular level . So that’s something. And also, this is something that happens whenever you starve yourself to lose weight. So most of us have already done it! Hannibal Cannibal Club, here I come!
Also bugs. Bugs are everywhere, more numerous than us, more resilient, and nutritious. We evolved from eating mainly plant life with sides of bugs for the protein. So in the event of cannibalism, my bug plan makes more sense. Team bug!
Jennifer Wright
This is how I’ll lure people into my people farm. With promises of delicious cooked bugs. Thank you.
Renee
Bug-fed people = or > grass-fed beef?
Eric_WVGG
I used to have this crush, once asked her to promise that, if we were in some kind of stranded-in-the-mountains scenario, she would cannibalize me to survive.
She was down. Didn’t even hesitate. Cool chick.
Mandy
I would try it if it was offered to me… but cooked like any other meat. Raw would just be gross. (Yes, I realize how that sounds…)
Most Interesting
Click to Like Us
Facebook
Twitter
Tumblr
YouTube
Pinterest
Featured Video
Not My Best Day
Sitemap
Advertise
Contact
About
Editorial Team
Privacy Policy / CA Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
The site is part of the Clevver Network.
TheGloss
Crushable
Blisstree
TheGrindstone
Mommyish
Gurl
Defy Media
©2015 Defy Media, LLC, All rights reserved. Use of the web site constitues acceptance of the Defy Media Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. The Gloss and all related sites and logos are trademarks of Defy Media.
Share a Tip
Your Name
E-mail Address
or
Cancel