Freethinkers’ Night: February 2011 – MOVIE: “KURU: The Science and the Sorcery” | Freethought Kampala
Freethought Kampala
Promoting Reason in a Highly Superstitious Society
Home
Archives
About Freethought Kampala
Subscribe to feed
Freethinkers’ Night: February 2011 – MOVIE: “KURU: The Science and the Sorcery”
February 21, 2011 in
Freethinkers' Night ,
Witchcraft
This coming Freethinkers’ Night is going to be yet another movie night! Every now and then we’ll be holding a FREE screening of an interesting, thought provoking movie pertaining to freethought, and thereafter have a discussion about the issues covered in the film.
The movie we will be screening on Thursday is a documentary called
KURU: The Science and the Sorcery .
Buy the documentary
here .
According to
one online review of this documentary :
This fascinating film is a medical detective story, which looks at the story of Kuru (also known as ‘laughing sickness’) a degenerative neurological disorder found predominately in Papua New Guinea’s Fore people. Kuru: The Science and the Sorcery follows Australian scientist and the world’s leading authority on the disease, Michael Alpers as he retraces his groundbreaking 1962 pioneering research trip deep into the jungles of PNG. The documentary takes its audience into a mysterious world of sorcery, cannibalism and tribal conflict.  Stranger than fiction, research into Kuru revealed a chain of discoveries, which turned scientific understandings upside down and resulted in two Nobel prizes. This film is an anthropological study not to be overlooked.
The reason we chose to screen this movie at the next Freethinkers’ Night is because it its relevance to the state of affairs with regards to the public understanding of neurological disorders. This state of affairs leads many Ugandans to conclude that someone is “possessed by evil spirits” whenever they encounter a person acting in ways that cannot be properly understood. Many alleged claims of
bewitching
feature stories about people “running mad”.
In this movie, and as depicted in this trailer below, the local communities claimed to be certain that the condition they called
Kuru
was the result of sorcery/witchcraft. A familiar pattern can be seen here… where a community can think of no explanation for something they encounter, they almost immediately relegate it to the realm of the supernatural. This documentary does a great job of showing how, in the end – even in the midst of all these widely held cultural beliefs in sorcery – long, painstaking scientific research prevailed, and provided the answers.
See:
Kuru (disease) in
Wikipedia .
This documentary will hopefully get more people thinking critically whenever they hear stories about people who have allegedly been
bewitched . While the people they hear about will most probably not be suffering specifically from
Kuru , watching this documentary will make people realise the effects neurological disorders can have on people. They might thus become less inclined to jump to the conclusion that someone was
bewitched , and be more open to medical reasons for why certain people may be acting as if ‘possessed’.
The February Freethinkers’ Night is going to take place on
Thursday, 24th February 2011 at 4 Points Bar & Restaurant , Centenary Park, Kampala, starting 6PM. We will start showing the documentary at exactly 6.30pm, so please keep time! There is NO entrance fee – it is FREE.
After the screening of the film, we’ll have a discussion on neurological disorders in general, and how they manifest in people as seemingly strange behaviour that tends to get attributed erroneously to witchcraft.
If you are an open minded person whose opinions are formed not by religious or cultural dogma but on the basis of science, logic, and reason and are interested in meeting like-minded individuals – you are welcome to join us at the meeting.
If you happen to be religious, you too are welcome to interact with those of us who are not, and engage in debate about these contentious issues.
See you there!
Related Posts:
Freethinkers’ Night: October 2010 – Witchcraft & the Ugandan Media
Talking to the Local Media about Reporting on Witchcraft
WOO TAKEDOWN # 002 – Ojwang Strikes Again
New Vision ‘Special Report’ – People Resort to Witch-Doctors to Catch Robbers
March Freethinkers’ Night – Another Success!
Does Christianity Reinforce the Belief that Witchcraft Works?
How To Eradicate Witchcraft In Uganda
Share: Email Facebook Twitter Reddit
Related
Freethought Kampala
Info
What is Freethought Kampala?
Find us on Facebook
Blog Stats
290,549 hits
Freethought Kampala Archives
Complete list of all blog posts
Blog Post Series
Woo Takedown
Pondering the ‘Afterlife’
The Resurrection of Jesus
Does 'God' Heal?
'God'
Epistemology
Recent Comments
Kathy
on
Jesus Christ vs. Sathya Sai Baba
Who believes in God on
‘God’ and Passing Exams
Who believes in God on
‘God’ and Passing Exams
Slavisa on
How Many Atheists Are There In The World?
Roger Raj on
How Many Atheists Are There In The World?
Recent Posts
Freethinkers’ Night: January 2013 – Is Christianity Still Relevant in Africa?
Lindsey: Becoming an atheist in Uganda
Martin Ssempa, James Onen & Andrew Mwenda Debate Homosexuality on Kingdom FM
Freethinkers’ Night: October 2012 – ‘Romantic Love’ Revisited
Debate on Atheism: Martin Ssempa vs. James Onen
Favourite Posts
“SCIENTISM” – the new Straw Man
Can Science Be Trusted?
Freethought Kampala in TIME Magazine
How Many Atheists Are There In The World?
The Moral Argument for the Existence of ‘God’
Why Claims of Miracle Healing Aren’t Believable
Why I Am An Atheist
Archives
Archives
Select Month
January 2013  (3)
October 2012  (3)
September 2012  (3)
August 2012  (2)
July 2012  (3)
June 2012  (1)
May 2012  (1)
April 2012  (3)
March 2012  (1)
February 2012  (1)
January 2012  (3)
December 2011  (5)
November 2011  (5)
October 2011  (7)
September 2011  (8)
August 2011  (8)
July 2011  (1)
June 2011  (4)
May 2011  (1)
April 2011  (7)
March 2011  (7)
February 2011  (1)
January 2011  (9)
December 2010  (3)
November 2010  (10)
October 2010  (8)
September 2010  (17)
August 2010  (13)
July 2010  (3)
June 2010  (3)
May 2010  (22)
April 2010  (37)
March 2010  (18)
February 2010  (21)
January 2010  (1)
Categories
'God'
Anti-Homosexuality Bill
Atheism
Black Freethought
Christianity
Critical Thinking
Culture
Debates
Deconversion Stories
Education
Elevatorgate
Ethics
Evolution
Faith Healing
Famous Non-Believers
Freethinkers' Night
Freethought Kampala in the Media
From the Blogosphere
Human Rights
Humour
Islam
Morality
News
Philosophy
Poems
Prophecy
Quote of the Day
Religion
Science
Series
Uganda
Ugandan Media
UK & Ireland Tour
Uncategorized
Witchcraft
Woo Takedown
Featured Authors Guest Writer Phillip James Onen Hassan Higenyi Ritah Nakuya E-MAIL US
search FK
HIGHLY RECOMMENDED SITES/BLOGS
Atheism.About.com
Common Sense Atheism
Ex-Christian.net
Internet Infidels
Talk Origins
Why Evolution Is True
African Freethought Blogs
African Science, Skepticism & Rationalist Blogroll
Leo Igwe
Quitstorm
Somali Atheism
Tauriq Moosa
Asian Freethought Blogs/Sites
Indian Atheists
Indian Rationalist Association
Science and Rationalists’ Association of India
Tarksheel Society
Unscientific Malaysia
Recommended Podcasts
Atheist Experience
Quackcast
Reasonable Doubts
Skeptics' Guide to the Universe
Email Subscription
Enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Join 115 other followers
The Out Campaign
1 comment
Comments feed for this article
March 10, 2012 at 7:57 pm
Mormonism or All Religions – Scam or True
[…] We have numerous verified instances of religious fraud. We have numerous verified instances of people being mistaken about phenomena they thought were supernatural. We have numerous verified instances of superstitions flourishing and growing into religious […]
Reply
Leave a Reply
Cancel reply
Enter your comment here...
Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:
Email
(required)
(Address never made public)
Name
(required)
Website
You are commenting using your WordPress.com account.
(  Log Out  /  Change  )
You are commenting using your Twitter account.
(  Log Out  /  Change  )
You are commenting using your Facebook account.
(  Log Out  /  Change  )
You are commenting using your Google+ account.
(  Log Out  /  Change  )
Cancel
Connecting to %s
Notify me of new comments via email.
Notify me of new posts via email.
«
One Year of the Freethought Kampala Blog
Great Article by Hassan Higenyi in the Sunday Monitor on Witchcraft…
»
Blog at WordPress.com . The Tarski Theme .
Subscribe to feed.
Follow
Follow “Freethought Kampala”
Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.
Join 115 other followers
Build a website with WordPress.com
Send to Email Address
Your Name
Your Email Address
Cancel
Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.