12. Monkey in the middle
Lesson 12
WORLD LIT
HOME
1. Clay & Skin
2. Gilgamesh
3. Acts of God
4. Genesis
CLASSICAL WEST
5. Odysseus
6. Men like
Animals
7. Socrates
8. Alexander
9. Virgil
10. Paul
CLASSICAL
EAST
11. Krishna
12. Rama
13. Kalidasa
14. Buddha
15. Confucius
16. Lao Tse
WORLD
RECOVERY
17. Quran
18. Beowulf
19. Genji
20. Survival Itself
POST DARK
AGE
21. Dante 1
22. Dante 2
23.
Dante 3
24.
Chaucer
25. Journey to the West
26. New World
27. Indians
28. Don Quixote
Monkey
in the middle
Read excerpts from
Ramayana
in
Damrosch:
A857-915.
They remind me of a story.
Journal for an hour. Of what story does the reading remind you? If you are enrolled in the
course for college credit, go to the Angel site, take the quiz and
submit your World Literature journal to Dr G.
A real sage
(in memory of Dr. V.
Madhusudan Reddy)
It is
still hard to believe that such an awful year really happened, 1968. Riots set ablaze the poorest, blackest neighborhoods in the
inner cities. My mind was not yet awake, but I could see our imperialist leaders at war over a place of no
strategic importance on the far side of the world, and all claiming
they could win with only a few hundred thousand more draftees. Friends were being flown back from the front in body bags. Dr. King was
killed, too, then there was a second Kennedy assassination, and visitors at
the Democratic National Convention in Chicago were beaten by police. The
Prague Spring demonstrators, led by students, were gunned down by the
Soviets.
In those days if you were a soldier's age but no soldier, you
were no
American. Even your mother and father saw
no difference between the Vietnam War and the good war that saved the
planet in their generation. The most popular bumper sticker read: "America, Love It or Leave It," which
meant "If
You Don't Support Our War, Then Obviously You Are the Enemy."
It was
also the year, my sophomore year, that I transferred into a very small
college in downstate Illinois, far from home, to make a new start. I
was not hopeful. I was totally alone. Yet even there, in the middle of the vast
cornfields and repulsive-smelling swine herds, there were friendly urban
easterners, disoriented as I was, who mostly grinned, took any
mind-altering drugs
they could find, and listened to Jimi Hendrix records. I wondered if
they could understand me.
I preferred the Beatles,
who in that year began experimenting with Hindu mysticism and
transcendental meditation, which seemed to be promising alternatives to
drugs. The boys were studying in India with
Maharishi Mahesh Yogi, so I was turned on one day when the college
announced a faculty exchange program in which we would receive, for all
of second semester, Dr. V. Madhusudan Reddy, chairman of the philosophy
department of the University of Hyderabad, India. Reddy was going to
teach a survey course in Oriental Philosophy, and my hippie roommate
George and I were first in line to register.
At first sight to us, Reddy was an odd-looking man: tall
and portly with a brown, pock-marked face, dark eyes, and tufts of black
hairs sprouting from his ears. His south Asian English was strange to
us, too. I remember that it took half of the semester before I knew what
he meant when he said "devil-epped," with stress on the "ep." I thought
that he was talking about something evil until finally one day he said
"devil-epp-ment"!
He presented the generalities of Hinduism, Buddhism
and other Eastern beliefs, as expected, but he also told stories of his
ashram, where the soul of a departed sage named Sri Aurobindo
periodically returned from the greater cosmos like a brilliant comet to
enlighten the spirits of all who meditated there on his perfected
consciousness. A holy woman named the Mother ran the place, communicated
regularly with the dead master, and performed a variety of stunning
miracles.
Had Reddy been anyone other than he was, I would have been
repelled by all of this strangeness, but after the first meeting,
whenever I was in his presence, my heart
filled with pure joy. I could not understand
it then, and I do not understand it now, but decades later I still
feel traces of the happy energy that radiated from him, as if he were a
great soul who had found out the secret way to paradise and yet was kind
enough to return to show me the way.
I began to wonder whether this sensation was caused by
something in him or, in reality, something in me? All I knew for certain
is that I never felt a bliss at all similar to it in meeting anyone
before. It wasn't on and off, or irregular with highs and lows
of emotion, such as we feel in a strong friendship or romantic love, but
a continuous contentment that all is as it should be. Continuous, that
is, as long as he was present in person or in memory.
Reddy spent that semester living alone in a fleabag hotel
downtown and, from all that we could see, he never was asked to
socialize with "colleagues" or townies. He was nice
enough in
conversation, but apparently not the right color to wear. It started
George and I thinking: we decided that we should throw a dinner party
for him at the end of the semester. It would show his students'
appreciation and also provide us with an opportunity to learn more about
him. We made elaborate plans. On break from school out in Boulder, we
found an Indian shop and bought supplies--not only the spices unknown in
downstate Illinois, but incense, bells, posters and other
decorations--an extravagant outlay for us, as we were always broke.
On the night of the party, I answered the door when Reddy
knocked. He seemed to be in a kind of daze, standing a little unsteady
outside the doorway and unresponsive to me when I blurted out "hi." I
wondered if he was having a heart attack after climbing the long flights
of stairs to our apartment!
I almost called George for help, when Reddy suddenly
returned to himself. "Ah, I am just admiring Hanuman!" he smiled.
"Are you OK?" I asked.
"You must admire Hanuman also," he replied.
"Oh, you
mean the poster!" It took a moment and longer, but I thought I finally got it. Out
in the hallway, he had been staring at our Indian poster of a monkey,
sitting in yoga posture, dreamy eyed among flowers, beads and radiant
light. "That's just something that we picked up during break week at a
terrific Indian headshop out in Colorado. The storekeeper there told us
that you might like it, especially if we put it near the door."
On further questioning, I had to admit that actually I knew
nothing about Hanuman. Reddy explained that, in the Hindu pantheon,
Hanuman is the god of hospitality because he welcomed and helped the
forest-wandering Rama
and his wife Sita in the ancient Sanskrit epic,
Ramayana .
The
rest of that evening was bittersweet, as Reddy was to depart for the
airport early in the morning--taking with him forever, as it seemed to
us, our happiness. After dinner, he told us stories of Rama for an hour or
so, and then he went back to his hotel.
That night, when finally I slept, I vividly dreamed. Wherever I went, the
trees all died. The birds flew away, the animals ran off, and the people
followed them. I asked some starving ascetics what was happening, but I
did not get any answer because they too fled hungering from me. Finally I
came upon a figure like some famished Buddha, or death’s head, sitting
square and resolute in my way. What’s wrong with the trees, I begged him.
Very slowly he uttered words that awakened me in horror: “Your friend will
go to the ashram, but you will not! Wait for another sign. Be kind to
trees!”
Immediately I thought about Reddy's
rapture, or seizure, or whatever it had been, at the top of our staircase. I
went out into the hallway and stood where he had stood, and I looked up
at the poster to try to sense what could have happened to him. To my
entire confusion, the monkey god had changed! Hanuman had worn
strands of beads around his neck, but now all of the strands were
broken, and the beads lay scattered around on the carpet where he sat,
still dreamy eyed in the identical yogic trance as before. I could not
believe what I was seeing.
George could not believe it, either. The broken beads were
much too obvious to have been overlooked when the poster was new, when
we hung it by the door, or even when we passed it on entering or exiting
the apartment several times per day for several weeks, up to the day
of the party. We wondered about this mystery for days,
and we tried to talk about it, but there was no way to account for what had happened . . .
The next semester, on break from school, we took the poster
back to the shop in Boulder where we found the same Indian woman who
months before had
sold it to us. She may have remembered us, for she
greeted us with a very warm smile. "Look at this," George said excitedly as
he unrolled Hanuman. "This isn't the way it looked when you sold it to
us." I was sure that she would be stunned by Reddy's miracle, as we
had been.
"What do you mean?" she asked.
"The beads," George said. "The strings are
broken. See?" She looked and cocked her head in silence. "The beads weren't broken before, when we bought them from you last
year," he explained.
Perhaps the old woman thought that we were going to make some kind of warranty claim against
her for selling us a defective poster. I can't imagine what she thought,
but for whatever reason, following a long silence she claimed not to know anything at all about the
condition of the beads at the time of sale. As we pressed our
questioning, she became more defensive until at last she denied that she
ever had seen us before. We must have purchased this particular poster
somewhere else, she said.
She may have not understood our English, or maybe she only pretended not to
understand us. I tried to make clear to her that nobody actually was
angry: we simply wanted answers about the beads, in order to show
that a miracle had happened. The more I said about it, the more
frightened she became, as if she thought of us as two lunatic drug
addicts. We were running out of time to chat with her when I made a
final attempt: "Look, you must have sold other prints of this same
poster. What do they look like? Are the beads broken or not?"
She knew nothing about such a poster at any time, either
before or now or in the future.
The store had scores of posters, but we had not seen one
identical to ours. George asked to see her catalogues, but she denied having catalogues.
We had been getting nowhere for a seemingly very long time, when the door
opened, and another customer entered the shop. The old woman of course
leapt at the chance to wait on him. While she was away, and probably
asking him to defend her from us, for he was a big man with a tall cowboy hat, George and I looked
once again through all of the posters in the shop
and talked over what to do, and in the middle of that confusion is when I
hatched a stupid plan.
The woman might be more open with us, I said, if we left
the poster with her in her shop, and if we told her to write to us, or
call us collect, if she ever came across another Hanuman print that
would answer our question about the beads. Somehow I got George to agree that there
was no use in taking the poster back to school. Without this distressed
lady's help, we would never have any real proof of anything.
So that morning we left the broken-beaded god in the shop where we had
found him, with the old woman who disowed him. We left our address and phone number, but of course we
never heard again from her. When finally I called her some weeks after
the visit, the phone number of the shop had been disconnected. I
later heard from an acquaintance in Boulder that the store had closed.
George was a senior that year. After graduation, he went to
Hyderabad to study with Reddy, and he visited the ashram too, but after
a few weeks he returned to the States to go to film school. In later
years, our paths crossed only once, briefly, and I could not help
myself. I asked him whether in India he had questioned Reddy about
Hanuman. Of course he had asked, but Reddy had simply smiled in the
usual way and changed
the subject, he said.
What kind of an answer is that?
Obedient to my dream, I never made the trip to Hyderabad, but at least a couple
of times each year I find myself with tears in my eyes searching the internet for images of
broken-beaded Hanuman. Indian mystics use magic
tricks and illusions to hook gullible believers, I know, but I can't
imagine how Reddy possibly could have deceived me. As long as I live, I
will believe in the miracle of the beads, and the proof of the miracle
will lie only
in my heart.
Image
right: on a contemporary poster, Hanuman tears his rich  necklaces
of pearls to reveal that
he wears Rama and Sita in his heart. As I eventually learned, the
broken-beaded Hanuman is a traditional Indian image of
devotion, but perhaps fittingly  for novices our broken-beaded
student poster did not show Hanuman's heart.
Scholars say that Rama is an incarnation of Vishnu the
preserver of dharma, justice among humankind. His story
has been told through the generations since at least the
4th century BCE, the date of the earliest reported written version of
Ramayana.  Today's version is 24,000
stanzas in Sanskrit. A full recital from memory can last for up to forty days,
three hours per day. To start the story, the bard traditionally
acknowledges the presence in the recital hall of the unseen Hanuman,
whose mind is filled only with Rama. Indeed, it is said that the story
cannot begin unless Hanuman is present.
Lesson
Summary:   Watch your beads! Watch
your heart!
Where does the
monkey fit the picture?
Suggested journal topics
and optional readings
1.
Ramayana
and
Mahabharata :
What significant similarities and differences
exist between these two
Sanskrit
poems?
What
significant similarities and differences exist between
Ramayana
and the
Homeric songs ?  Do the landscape and ecology of the Indian subcontinent
play important roles in the Indian epics, or are social or political factors more
important in accounting for differences?
2. Catastrophism :
Rama
and
Krishna
acquired
acceptance as incarnations of the destroyer god
Vishnu
in the medieval period, so
the original
Ramayana
and
Mahabharata,
as they formerly existed in the ancient
world, may not have made strong assertions or any assertions about Vishnu incarnations. These
references may have been
added, or at least strengthened, as the Vishnu sect re-used old
familiar stories to support its
beliefs, much as the Ptolemaic sect in Alexandria and the Roman sect of Augustus sought to
re-use Homer for their own political ends (recall Lesson 8). Because the
ancient texts have been lost, we do not know for certain.
The idea that Vishnu manifests himself periodically and divides time into
ages of the world appears to be a poetic account of
catastrophism .
Vishnu's appearance in Rama's time and Krishna's time coincides with the destruction of
the Bronze Age. The god's return to put an end to the classical period in
the fifth century, when the world had all but forgotten him since he had
been away for many years, coincides with the date from which our modern
manuscripts of
Ramayana
and
Mahabharata
appear to derive.
The collapse of the
Bronze
Age
may have triggered or coincided with the Aryan or
Indo-European
migration from
the steppes of central Asia into the subcontinent. Extensive civilizations
that existed during the Bronze Age in south Asia left no literary account of
themselves, which we today have been able to read, but the new people who arrived to find the ruins of that
civilization attempted to tell what had happened, and they of course could
have had access to more records than we have today.
Mahabharata
is more or less explicit in its theme of the
destruction of the
Kuru , or people of
Bharata , through their injustice.
(Compare the Genesis flood myth.)  Obviously many hands have shaped the
telling of this ethical/religious story over the centuries.
The theme seems more revealing in
Ramayana : the central battle of Rama and the monster
Ravana
in book 6 is a
cosmic catastrophe similar to that in Hesiod's Theogony [recall Lesson 1].
The ten-necked demon arrives unexpectedly from the sky in a chariot (a comet
or space debris), he puffs himself up and takes away the fertility of the
world represented by
Sita
(her name means "furrow" and she is a daughter of the goddess
Earth). Then like Hesiod's lightning-throwing Zeus, Rama fires his blazing arrow,
dealing a death blow to Ravana (signs of impact dissipate), but resulting also in a fire that burns Sita
(firestorm of fallout from impact).
She miraculously recovers as
Brahma
re-creates the world,
and this miracle episode is the focal point in the original story of wonder and awe at the power of the planet
to recover from its apparent doom.
Brahmin
culture may have
its roots in the first form of this text.  (This is just a conjecture
by Dr G.)
Rama's story as it appears in today's text is far bigger than the cosmic
battle itself. (Here's further conjecture.) Centuries passed since the
catastrophe that ended the Bronze Age, and story-tellers no longer
understood the meaning of the original
Ramayana , or they did not
think that audiences would be interested. It appears they preserved the old story
with minimal rewriting, but they elaborated with new characters like
Hanuman
and
Keikeyi , and new episodes
focused on the ethic of
dharma
or Buddhist retreat, or medieval romance or whatever else was in fashion
among the story-tellers of the time of retelling. The result is like
Mahabharata , a big collection of old
and new passages, composed at various times over perhaps two thousand years,
a mix of voices that is often very beautiful but at times inharmonious. For instance, Rama's alleged perfections
clash in the ending episodes with his
insults to Sita and his trying her by fire so that he will not appear to
good people to be "a lustful fool." The heel! She becomes in this
retelling of the firestorm a familiar literary type, a "slandered bride," a folktale heroine
commonly found in early narratives all over the world. Sita has to burn,
because everybody knows that Sita's burning is part of the story, but why?
For the cultural historian, the real beauty of the Indian epics is that old
material was not thrown away or edited out by revisionist priests or editors
or censoring poets. All revelations seem to have been regarded as true, or
at least worthy of preservation, and so the record preserved for us to read
today is far more complete than in any other part of the world. This is
truly remarkable and truly valuable for study, though it can be initially
overwhelmingin scope, variety and mass. Here is multiculturalism at its
best!
3.
Web resources for Ramayana :
Laura Gibbs'
Resources for Ramayana
Ramayana of Valmiki
translated by Ralph H. Griffith
World Cultures, The
Ramayana . Margery Freeman and Lorraine Aragon present the story for
Learn NC with marvelous graphics.
Rama in the forest
miniatures.
An
Indonesian Ramayana
4.
V. Madhusudan Reddy.
Born
in 1926, the late Dr. Reddy was Senior Professor and Chairman,
Department of Philosophy, Osmania-University, Hyderabad (India), for
more than 16 years. As post-graduate teacher he taught courses in Indian
and Western philosophy for 30 years. He travelled widely as UNESCO Fellow, Fulbright Asian Professor,
and Visiting Scholar (1961, 1969, 1974, 1975, 1976, 1978, 1982, 1985,
1988) and taught in the USA, UK, Canada, France, West Germany,
Switzerland and Singapore. He participated in various national and international seminars
and gave talks on ancient and modern Indian thought, with special focus on
the Vedas, Upanishads, Gita and Sri Aurobindo. He was UGC Emeritus Fellow,
Chairman, Institute of Human Study and Editor of
New Race
– a quarterly
journal dedicated to the exposition of Sri Aurobindo’s Vision of the
Future. He published more than 200 papers and authored 20 books.
5 .
Hanuman
images at Kamat's Potpourri.
6. Ramayana's role
models : according to Damrosch, "the moral dimension of the poem has
long had powerful effects on the behavior of real people in southern Asia. .
. Rama, Sita,
Lakshmana , and the others have constantly been held up as
models of behavior . . . To this day public performances of the
Ramayana ,
regardless of the version, often revolve around moral questions: Why did
Rama do this? Was Sita right to do that?" (Instructor's Manual to Accompany
the Longman Anthology of World Literature, Second Edition, 76.)
What kind of
culture
is fostered by this poem? (recall how we defined culture in Lesson 1.) How
is this culture adaptive?  That is, what advantage would there be to
persons who follow of the models of behavior in this story? Or is the
advantage to society as a whole?
7. Puranas ?
Retellings of the Indian epic material and other history and psudohistory
were gathered in about the sixth century (to save the knowledge of the past following the world
disaster of the fifth century) in devotional collections known as the
Puranas .  Best
known of these are the
Bhagavata
and
the
Vishnu Purana .
These expand on the stories of Rama, Krishna, and the other gods, heroes and
sages of earlier South Asian literature.
8. Creative writing
project:
come up with a new episode of
Ramayana .
Lennon rejected Maharishi but Harrison accepted him. The Beatles came
apart.
Left: Thai Emerald Temple scene of Laksmana,
Rama and Sita in exile.
Relief sculpture of
monkeys building the bridge to Lanka, Prambanan Temple, Java.
Left: the Mother,
Sahana Devi
Instructor:
gutchess@englishare.net
Copyright  ©
2008
- 2013