wisit india
wisit india
namaste INDIA See THE INDIA 1st
this is the time for see somthing in india
Pages
Home
Thursday, July 1, 2010
the india
The
history of India
begins with evidence of human activity of
Homo sapiens
as long as 75,000 years ago hominids ( Homo Erectus ) from about 500,000 years ago. The
Indus Valley Civilization , which spread and flourished in the north-western part of the
Indian subcontinent
from c. 3300 to 1300 BCE, was the first major civilization in
India . A sophisticated and technologically advanced urban culture developed in the
Mature Harappan
period, from 2600 to 1900 BCE. This
Bronze Age
civilization collapsed at the beginning of the second millennium BCE and was followed by the
Iron Age
Vedic Civilization , which extended over much of the
Indo-Gangetic plains
and which witnessed the rise of major polities known as the
Mahajanapadas . In one kingdom,
Magadha ,
Mahavira
and
Gautama Buddha
were born in the 6th or 5th century BCE, who propagated their
Shramanic
philosophies.
Almost all of the subcontinent was conquered by the
Maurya Empire
during the 4th and 3rd centuries BCE. It subsequently became fragmented, with various parts ruled by numerous
Middle kingdoms
for the next 1,500 years. This is known as the classical period of India, during which India is estimated to have had the
largest economy
of the ancient and medieval world, controlling between one third and one fourth of the world's wealth up to the 18th century.
Much of Northern and Central India was once again united in the 4th century CE, and remained so for two centuries thereafter, under the
Gupta Empire . This period, of
Hindu
religious and intellectual resurgence, is known among its admirers as the " Golden Age of India ." During the same time, and for several centuries afterwards, Southern India, under the rule of the
Chalukyas ,
Cholas ,
Pallavas
and
Pandyas , experienced its own golden age. During this period aspects of Indian civilization, administration, culture, and religion ( Hinduism
and
Buddhism ) spread to much of
Asia .
The southern state of
Kerala
had maritime business links with the Roman Empire from around 77 CE. Islam was introduced in Kerala through this route by Muslim traders. Muslim rule in the subcontinent began in 712 CE when the Arab general
Muhammad bin Qasim
conquered
Sindh
and
Multan
in southern
Punjab , [ 1 ]
setting the stage for several successive invasions between the 10th and 15th centuries CE from Central Asia, leading to the formation of Muslim empires in the
Indian subcontinent
such as the
Delhi Sultanate
and the
Mughal Empire .
Mughal rule came to cover most of the northern parts of the subcontinent. Mughal rulers introduced middle-eastern art and architecture to India. In addition to the Mughals and various
Rajput
kingdoms, several independent
Hindu
states, such as the
Vijayanagara Empire , the
Maratha Empire
and the
Ahom Kingdom , flourished contemporaneously in
Southern ,
Western
and
North-Eastern
India respectively. The Mughal Empire suffered a gradual decline in the early eighteenth century, which provided opportunities for the
Afghans ,
Balochis ,
Sikhs
and the Marathas to exercise control over large areas in the northwest of the subcontinent until the
British East India Company
gained ascendancy over South Asia. [ 2 ]
Beginning in the mid-18th century and over the next century, India was gradually annexed by the
British East India Company . Dissatisfaction with Company rule led to the
First War of Indian Independence , after which India was directly administered by the
British Crown
and witnessed a period of both rapid development of
infrastructure
and economic decline. During the first half of the 20th century, a nationwide
struggle for independence
was launched by the
Indian National Congress , and later joined by the
Muslim League . The subcontinent gained independence from the
United Kingdom
in 1947, after being
partitioned
into the dominions of India and
Pakistan .
Isolated remains of
Homo erectus
in Hathnora in the
Narmada Valley
in
Central India
indicate that India might have been inhabited since at least the
Middle Pleistocene
era, somewhere between 200,000 to 500,000 years ago. [ 3 ] [ 4 ]
Recent finds in
Tamil Nadu
(at c. 75,000 years ago, before and after the explosion of the
Toba volcano ) indicate the presence of the first anatomically modern humans in the area.
The
Mesolithic
period in the Indian subcontinent was followed by the Neolithic period, when more extensive settlement of the subcontinent occurred after the end of the last
Ice Age , or approximately 12,000 years ago. The first confirmed semi-permanent settlements appeared 9,000 years ago in the
Rock Shelters of Bhimbetka
in modern
Madhya Pradesh , India.
Early
Neolithic
culture in South Asia is represented by the
Mehrgarh
findings ( 7000 BC E onwards) in present day
Balochistan , Pakistan. Traces of a
Neolithic
culture have been alleged to be submerged in the
Gulf of Khambat
in India,
radiocarbon dated
to
7500 BC E. [ 5 ]
However, the one dredged piece of wood in question was found in an area of strong ocean currents. Neolithic agriculture cultures sprang up in the Indus Valley region around 5000 BCE, in the Lower Gangetic valley around 3000 BCE, and in later South India, spreading southwards and also northwards into Malwa around 1800 BCE.
Tools crafted by proto-humans have been discovered in the north-western part of the subcontinent that have been dated back two million years. [ 6 ] [ 7 ]
The ancient history of the region includes some of
South Asia 's oldest settlements [ 8 ]
and some of its major civilizations. [ 9 ] [ 10 ]
The earliest archaeological site in the Subcontinent is the
palaeolithic
hominid
site in the
Soan River valley . [ 11 ]
Village life is first attested at the
Neolithic
site of
Mehrgarh , [ 12 ]
while the first urban civilization of the region began with the
Indus Valley Civilization . [ 13 ]
Bronze Age Main article:
Indus Valley Civilization See also:
Economic history of India  and
Timeline of the economy of India
Ancient
Lothal
as envisaged by the
Archaeological Survey of India .
"Priest King" of
Indus Valley Civilization The Bronze Age in the
Indian subcontinent
began around 3300 BCE with the early Indus Valley Civilization. It was centered on the
Indus River
and its tributaries which extended into the
Ghaggar-Hakra River
valley, [ 9 ]
the
Ganges-Yamuna Doab , [ 14 ]
Gujarat , [ 15 ]
and southeastern
Afghanistan . [ 16 ]
The civilization is primarily located in modern day India ( Gujarat ,
Haryana ,
Punjab
and
Rajasthan
provinces) and Pakistan ( Sindh ,
Punjab , and
Balochistan
provinces). Historically part of
Ancient India , it is one of the world's earliest urban civilizations, along with
Mesopotamia
and
Ancient Egypt . [ 17 ]
Inhabitants of the ancient
Indus river
valley, the Harappans, developed new techniques in metallurgy and handicraft (carneol products, seal carving) produced copper, bronze, lead and tin.
The Mature Indus civilization flourished from about 2600 BCE to 1900 BCE marked the beginning of the urban civilization on the subcontinent. The ancient civilization included urban centers such as
Dholavira ,
Kalibangan ,
Rupar ,
Rakhigarhi ,
Lothal
in modern day
India
and
Harappa ,
Ganeriwala ,
Mohenjo-daro
in modern day
Pakistan . The civilization is noted for its cities built of brick, road-side drainage system and multi-storied houses.
Vedic period Main article:
Vedic Civilization See also:
Vedas  and
Indo-Aryans
Map of
North India
in the late
Vedic period . The
Vedic period
is characterized by
Indo-Aryan
culture associated with the texts of
Vedas , sacred to Hindus, which were orally composed in
Vedic Sanskrit . The
Vedas
are some of the oldest extant texts, next to those of Egypt and Mesopotamia. The Vedic period lasted from about 1500 BCE to 500 BCE, laid the foundations of
Hinduism
and other cultural aspects of early
Indian
society. The Aryas established
Vedic
civilization all over
North India , and increasingly so in the Gangetic Plain. This period succeeded the prehistoric
Late Harappan
during which
immigrations of Indo-Aryan speaking tribes
overlaid the existing civilizations of local people whom they called Dasyus.
The
swastika
is a major
Hindu iconography . Early Vedic society consisted of largely pastoral groups, with late Harappan urbanization having been abandoned. [ 18 ]
After the
Rigveda , Aryan society became increasingly agricultural, and was socially organized around the four
Varnas . In addition to the principal texts of Hinduism the
Vedas , the core themes of the Sanskrit epics
Ramayana
and
Mahabharata
are said to have their ultimate origins during this period. [ 19 ]
Early Indo-Aryan presence probably corresponds, in part, to the presence of
Ochre Coloured Pottery
in archaeological findings. [ 20 ]
The kingdom of the
Kurus [ 21 ]
corresponds to the
Black and Red Ware
and
Painted Gray Ware
culture and the beginning of the Iron Age in Northwestern India, around
1000 BC E with the composition of the
Atharvaveda , the first Indian text to mention iron, as
śyāma ayas , literally "black metal." The
Painted Grey Ware
culture spanning much of Northern India was prevalent from about 1100 to 600 BCE. [ 20 ]
The
Vedic Period
also established
republics
(such as
Vaishali ) which existed as early as the sixth century BCE and persisted in some areas until the fourth century CE. The later part of this period corresponds with an increasing movement away from the prevalent tribal system towards establishment of kingdoms, called
Maha Janapadas .
Maha Janapadas
Gautama Buddha
undertaking extreme ascetic practices before his enlightenment on the bank of river
Falgu
in
Bodh Gaya , Bihar.
Detail of a leaf with, The Birth of
Mahavira
(the 24th
Jain
Tirthankara ), from the
Kalpa Sutra , c.1375-1400.
The
Mahajanapadas
were the sixteen most powerful kingdoms and republics of the era, located mainly across the fertile
Indo-Gangetic plains , however there were a number of smaller kingdoms stretching the length and breadth of
Ancient India .
Nalanda University
is considered "one of the first great
universities
in recorded history." It was the center of
Buddhist
learning and research in the world from 450–1193 CE. Main articles:
Mahajanapadas
and
Magadha Empire Main articles:
History of Hinduism ,
History of Buddhism , and
History of Jainism See also:
Adi Shankara ,
Siddhartha Gautama , and
Mahavira Further information:
Upanishads ,  Indian Religions ,  Indian philosophy , and  Ancient universities of India In the later Vedic Age, a number of small kingdoms or city states had covered the subcontinent, many mentioned during Vedic, early Buddhist and Jaina literature as far back as 1000 BCE. By 500 BCE, sixteen monarchies and 'republics' known as the
Mahajanapadas
—
Kasi ,
Kosala ,
Anga ,
Magadha ,
Vajji
(or Vriji),
Malla ,
Chedi ,
Vatsa
(or Vamsa),
Kuru ,
Panchala ,
Machcha
(or Matsya),
Surasena ,
Assaka ,
Avanti ,
Gandhara ,
Kamboja
— stretched across the
Indo-Gangetic plains
from modern-day Afghanistan to Bengal and Maharastra. This period was that of the second major urbanisation in India after the Indus Valley Civilization.
Many smaller clans mentioned within early literature seem to have been present across the rest of the subcontinent. Some of these kings were hereditary; other states elected their rulers. The educated speech at that time was
Sanskrit , while the dialects of the general population of northern India are referred to as
Prakrits . Many of the sixteen kingdoms had coalesced to four major ones by 500/400 BCE, by the time of
Siddhartha Gautama . These four were
Vatsa ,
Avanti ,
Kosala
and
Magadha . [ 22 ]
Hindu rituals at that time were complicated and conducted by the priestly class. It is thought that the
Upanishads , late Vedic texts dealing mainly with incipient philosophy, were composed in the later Vedic Age and early in this period of the
Mahajanapadas
(from about 600 - 400 BCE).
Upanishads
had a substantial effect on
Indian philosophy , and were contemporary to the development of Buddhism and
Jainism , indicating a golden age of thought in this period.
It is believed that in 537 BCE, that Siddhartha Gautama attained the state of "enlightenment", and became known as the 'Buddha' - the enlightened one. Around the same time,
Mahavira
(the 24th Jain
Tirthankara
according to Jains) propagated a similar theology, that was to later become
Jainism . [ 23 ]
However, Jain orthodoxy believes it predates all known time. The
Vedas
are believed to have documented a few Jain Tirthankars, and an ascetic order similar to the sramana movement. [ 24 ]
The Buddha's teachings and Jainism had doctrines inclined toward asceticism, and were preached in
Prakrit , which helped them gain acceptance amongst the masses. They have profoundly influenced practices that Hinduism and Indian spiritual orders are associated with namely, vegetarianism, prohibition of animal slaughter and ahinsa (non-violence). While the geographic impact of Jainism was limited to India, Buddhist nuns and monks eventually spread the teachings of Buddha to
Central Asia ,
East Asia ,
Tibet ,
Sri Lanka
and
South East Asia .
Persian and Greek conquests See also:
Achaemenid Empire ,
Greco-Buddhism ,
Alexander the Great ,
Nanda Empire , and
Gangaridai
Asia in 323 BCE, the
Nanda Empire
and
Gangaridai Empire
in relation to
Alexander 's Empire and neighbors. Much of the northwestern subcontinent (present day Eastern Afghanistan and Pakistan) came under the rule of the Persian
Achaemenid Empire
in c. 520 BCE during the reign of
Darius the Great , and remained so for two centuries thereafter. [ 25 ]
In 326 BCE,
Alexander the Great
conquered Asia Minor and the Achaemenid Empire, reaching the north-west frontiers of the Indian subcontinent. There, he defeated King
Puru
in the
Battle of the Hydaspes
(near modern-day Jhelum, Pakistan) and conquered much of the Punjab. [ 26 ]
Alexander's march East put him in confrontation with the
Nanda Empire
of
Magadha
and
Gangaridai Empire
of
Bengal . His army, exhausted and frightened by the prospect of facing larger Indian armies at the Ganges River, mutinied at the
Hyphasis
(modern
Beas ) and refused to march further East. Alexander, after the meeting with his officer,
Coenus , was convinced that it was better to return.
The Persian and Greek invasions had important repercussions on Indian civilization. The political systems of the Persians was to influence future forms of governance on the subcontinent, including the administration of the Mauryan dynasty. In addition, the region of Gandhara, or present-day eastern Afghanistan and north-west Pakistan, became a melting pot of Indian, Persian, Central Asian and Greek cultures and gave rise to a hybrid culture,
Greco-Buddhism , which lasted until the 5th century CE and influenced the artistic development of
Mahayana Buddhism .
Maurya period Main article:
Maurya Empire Further information:
Chandragupta Maurya ,  Bindusara , and  Ashoka the Great
Maurya Empire
under
Ashoka the Great
Ashokan pillar
at
Vaishali , 3rd century BCE.
The
Maurya Empire
(322–185 B.C), ruled by the
Mauryan dynasty , was geographically extensive, powerful, and a political military empire in ancient India. The great Maurya empire was established by
Chandragupta Maurya
and this empire was flourished by
Ashoka the Great . At its greatest extent, the Empire stretched to the north along the natural boundaries of the
Himalayas , and to the east stretching into what is now
Assam . To the west, it reached beyond modern
Pakistan , annexing
Balochistan
and much of what is now
Afghanistan , including the modern
Herat
and
Kandahar
provinces. The Empire was expanded into India's central and southern regions by the emperors Chandragupta and
Bindusara , but it excluded a big portion of unexplored tribal and forested regions near
Kalinga
which was won by
Ashoka the Great . Ashoka propagated
Buddhism
across the world and established many Buddhist monuments.
Chandragupta's minister
Chanakya
wrote the
Arthashastra , one of the greatest treatises on
economics , politics, foreign affairs, administration, military arts, war, and religion produced in
Asia . Archaeologically, the period of Mauryan rule in South Asia falls into the era of
Northern Black Polished Ware
(NBPW). The
Arthashastra
and the
Edicts of Ashoka
are primary sources of written records of the Mauryan times. The
Lion Capital of Asoka
at
Sarnath , is the national
emblem
of India.
Early Middle Kingdoms — The Golden Age Main article:
Middle Kingdoms of India
Ancient India
during the rise of
Sunga Empire
and
Satavahana Empire .
Kharavela Empire
Kushan Empire
and
Western Satraps
of
Ancient India
in the north along with
Pandyans
and
Early Cholas
in
southern India .
The middle period was a time of notable cultural development. The
Satavahanas , also known as the Andhras, was a dynasty which ruled in southern and central India starting from around 230 BC.
Satakarni , the sixth ruler of the Satvahana dynasty, defeated the
Sunga Empire
of
North India . Afterwards,
Kharavela
the warrior king of
Kalinga [ 27 ]
ruled a vast empire and was responsible for the propagation of
Jainism
in the
Indian Subcontinent . [ 27 ]
The Kharavelan
Jain
empire also had a formidable maritime empire with trading routes linking it to
Sri Lanka ,
Burma ,
Thailand ,
Vietnam ,
Cambodia ,
Borneo ,
Bali ,
Sumatra
and
Java . Colonists from Kalinga settled in Sri Lanka, Burma, as well as the
Maldives
and
Malay Archipelago .
Kuninda Kingdom
was a small Himalayan state that survived from around the
2nd century BC
to roughly the
3rd century
CE. The
Kushanas
migrated into north-western India in the middle of the 1st century CE, from
Central Asia , and founded an empire that eventually stretched from
Tajikistan
to the middle
Ganges . The
Western Satraps
(35-405 CE) were
Saka
rulers of the western and central part of India. They were the successors of the Indo-Scythians (see below) and contemporaneous with the Kushans who ruled the northern part of the Indian subcontinent, and the Satavahana (Andhra) who ruled in central and southern India.
Different empires such as the
Pandyans ,
Cholas ,
Cheras ,
Kadambas ,
Western Gangas ,
Pallavas
and
Chalukyas
dominated the southern part of the Indian peninsula, at different periods of time. Several southern kingdoms formed overseas empires that stretched across South East Asia. The kingdoms warred with each other and Deccan states, for domination of the south.
Kalabhras , a Buddhist kingdom, briefly interrupted the usual domination of the Cholas, Cheras and Pandyas in the South.
Northwestern hybrid cultures
The founder of the
Indo-Greek Kingdom ,
Demetrius I "the Invincible"
(205–171 BCE). See also:
Indo-Greek kingdom ,
Indo-Scythians ,
Indo-Parthian Kingdom , and
Indo-Sassanids The north-western hybrid cultures of the subcontinent included the
Indo-Greeks , the
Indo-Scythians , the
Indo-Parthians , and the
Indo-Sassinids . The first of these, the
Indo-Greek Kingdom , founded when the
Greco-Bactrian
king
Demetrius
invaded the region in 180 BC, extended over various parts of present-day Afghanistan and Pakistan. Lasting for almost two centuries, it was ruled by a succession of more than 30 Greek kings, who were often in conflict with each other. The
Indo-Scythians
was a branch of the Indo-European
Sakas
( Scythians ), who migrated from southern
Siberia
first into
Bactria , subsequently into
Sogdiana ,
Kashmir ,
Arachosia ,
Gandhara
and finally into India; their kingdom lasted from the middle of the 2nd century BC to the 1st century BC. Yet another kingdom, the
Indo-Parthians
(also known as
Pahlavas ) came to control most of present-day Afghanistan and northern Pakistan, after fighting many local rulers such as the
Kushan
ruler
Kujula Kadphises , in the Gandhara region. The
Sassanid
empire of Persia, who were contemporaries of the Guptas, expanded into the region of present-day Pakistan, where the mingling of Indian and
Persian cultures
gave birth to the
Indo-Sassanid
culture.
Roman trade with India Main article:
Roman trade with India
Coin of the Roman emperor
Augustus
found at the
Pudukottai ,
South India . Roman trade with India started around 1 CE following the reign of
Augustus
and
his conquest
of
Egypt , theretofore
India 's biggest trade partner in the West.
The trade started by
Eudoxus of Cyzicus
in 130 BCE kept increasing, and according to
Strabo
(II.5.12. [ 28 ] ), by the time of
Augustus
up to 120 ships were setting sail every year from
Myos Hormos
to India. So much gold was used for this trade, and apparently recycled by the
Kushans
for their own coinage, that
Pliny
(NH VI.101) complained about the drain of specie to India:
"India, China and the Arabian peninsula take one hundred million
sesterces
from our empire per annum at a conservative estimate: that is what our luxuries and women cost us. For what percentage of these imports is intended for sacrifices to the gods or the spirits of the dead?" —Pliny, Historia Naturae 12.41.84. [ 29 ] These trade routes and harbour are described in detail in the 1st century CE
Periplus of the Erythraean Sea .
Gupta rule Main article:
Gupta Empire See also:
Chandra Gupta I ,
Samudragupta ,
Chandra Gupta II ,
Kumaragupta I , and
Skandagupta Further information:
Kalidasa ,  Aryabhata ,  Varahamihira ,  Vishnu Sharma , and  Vatsyayana Further information:
Meghadūta ,  Abhijñānaśākuntala ,  Kumārasambhava ,  Panchatantra ,  Aryabhatiya ,  Indian numerals , and  Kama Sutra
File:IndiaGuptaEmpire.jpg
The
Gupta Empire
Kalidasa 's
Sanskrit play
Abhijñānaśākuntala
is one of the
Legacy of the Gupta Empire .
The
Classical Age
refers to the period when much of the
Indian Subcontinent
was reunited under the
Gupta Empire
(ca. 320 AD–550 AD). [ 30 ] [ 31 ]
This period is called the
Golden Age of India [ 32 ]
and was marked by extensive achievements in
science, technology ,
engineering ,
art ,
dialectic ,
literature ,
logic ,
mathematics ,
astronomy ,
religion
and
philosophy
that crystallized the elements of what is generally known as
Hindu culture . [ 33 ]
The
decimal numeral system , including the concept of
zero , was invented in India during this period. [ 34 ]
The peace and prosperity created under leadership of Guptas enabled the pursuit of scientific and artistic endeavors in India. [ 35 ]
The high points of this cultural creativity are magnificent architectures, sculptures and paintings. [ 36 ]
The Gupta period produced scholars such as
Kalidasa ,
Aryabhata ,
Varahamihira ,
Vishnu Sharma , and
Vatsyayana
who made great advancements in many academic fields. [ 37 ]
Science and political administration reached new heights during the Gupta era. Strong trade ties also made the region an important cultural center and set the region up as a base that would influence nearby kingdoms and regions in
Burma ,
Sri Lanka ,
Malay Archipelago
and
Indochina .
The Gupta period marked a watershed of Indian culture: the Guptas performed Vedic sacrifices to legitimize their rule, but they also patronized
Buddhism , which continued to provide an alternative to Brahmanical orthodoxy. The military exploits of the first three rulers— Chandragupta I
(ca. 319–335),
Samudragupta
(ca. 335–376), and
Chandragupta II
(ca. 376–415) —brought much of India under their leadership. [ 38 ]
They successfully resisted the North-Western Kingdoms until the arrival of the
Hunas
who established themselves in Afghanistan by the first half of the fifth century, with their capital at
Bamiyan . [ 39 ]
Nevertheless, much of the
Deccan
and southern India were largely unaffected by this state of flux in the north. [ 40 ] [ 41 ]
Late Middle Kingdoms — The Classical Age Main article:
Middle Kingdoms of India
Pala Empire
under
Dharmapala
Pala Empire
under
Devapala
Chola Empire
under
Rajendra Chola
c. 1030 C.E.
Badami Chalukya Empire
The
Kanauj
Triangle
was the focal point of
empires
- the
Rashtrakutas
of
Deccan , the
Gurjara Pratiharas
of
Malwa , and the
Palas
of
Bengal . The
Classical Age in India
began with the Guptas and the resurgence of the north during
Harsha 's conquests around the 7th century, and ended with the fall of the
Vijayanagar Empire
in the South, due to pressure from the invaders to the north in the 13th century. This period produced some of India's finest art, considered the epitome of classical development, and the development of the main spiritual and philosophical systems which continued to be in Hinduism, Buddhism and Jainism. King Harsha of
Kannauj
succeeded in reuniting northern India during his reign in the 7th century, after the collapse of the Gupta dynasty. His kingdom collapsed after his death.
From the 7th to the 9th century, three dynasties contested for control of northern India: the
Gurjara Pratiharas
of
Malwa , the
Palas
of
Bengal
and the
Rashtrakutas
of
Deccan . The
Sena Empire
would later assume control of the Pala Empire, and the
Gurjara Pratiharas
fragmented into various states. These were the first of the
Rajputs , a series of kingdoms which managed to survive in some form for almost a millennium until Indian independence from the British. The first recorded Rajput kingdoms emerged in
Rajasthan
in the 6th century, and small Rajput dynasties later ruled much of northern India. One
Gurjar [ 42 ] [ 43 ]
Rajput of the
Chauhan
clan,
Prithvi Raj Chauhan , was known for bloody conflicts against the advancing Islamic Sultanates. The
Shahi
dynasty ruled portions of eastern Afghanistan, northern Pakistan, and Kashmir from the mid-seventh century to the early eleventh century.
The
Chalukya Empire
ruled parts of southern and central India from 550 to 750 from
Badami ,
Karnataka
and again from 970 to 1190 from
Kalyani , Karnataka. The
Pallavas
of Kanchi were their contemporaries further to the south. With the decline of the Chalukya empire, their feudatories,
Hoysalas
of
Halebidu ,
Kakatiya
of Warangal,
Seuna Yadavas of Devagiri
and a southern branch of the
Kalachuri
divided the vast Chalukya empire amongst themselves around the middle of 12th century.
The
Chola Empire
at its peak covered much of the
Indian Subcontinent
and
Southeast Asia .
Rajaraja Chola
conquered all of peninsular
South India
and parts of the
Sri Lanka .
Rajendra Chola 's navies went even further, occupying coasts from Burma (now
Myanmar ) to
Vietnam , [ 44 ]
the
Andaman and Nicobar Islands ,
Lakshadweep ,
Sumatra , and the
Malaya
in South East Asia and Pegu islands. Later during the middle period, the
Pandyan Empire
emerged in
Tamil Nadu , as well as the
Chera Empire
in
Kerala . By 1343, all these dynasties had ceased to exist giving rise to the
Vijayanagar empire .
The ports of
South India
were involved in the
Indian Ocean
trade, chiefly involving spices, with the
Roman Empire
to the west and Southeast Asia to the east. [ 45 ] [ 46 ]
Literature in local vernaculars and spectacular architecture flourished till about the beginning of the 14th century when southern expeditions of the sultan of Delhi took their toll on these kingdoms. The Hindu Vijayanagar dynasty came into conflict with Islamic rule (the
Bahmani
Kingdom) and the clashing of the two systems, caused a mingling of the indigenous and foreign culture that left lasting cultural influences on each other. The
Vijaynagar Empire
eventually declined due to pressure from the first Delhi Sultanates who had managed to establish themselves in the north, centered around the city of Delhi by that time.
The Islamic Sultanates
Gol Gumbaz
at
Bijapur , has the second largest pre-modern dome in the world after the Byzantine
Hagia Sophia . Main article:
Islamic Empires in India See also:
Bahmani Sultanate  and
Deccan Sultanates After conquering Persia, Islamic Caliphate incorporated parts of what is now Pakistan around 720 CE. They were keen to invade India, [ 47 ]
which was the richest classical civilization, [ 48 ]
with a flourishing international trade and the only known diamond mines in the world. After several wars over three centuries between various north Indian kingdoms and the Caliphate, short lived Islamic empires ( Sultanates ) were established and spread across the northern subcontinent over a period of a few centuries. But, prior to Turkic
invasions , Muslim trading communities had flourished throughout coastal South India, particularly in Kerala, where they arrived in small numbers, mainly from the Arabian peninsula, through trade links via the Indian Ocean. However, this had marked the introduction of an
Abrahamic
Middle Eastern
religion in Southern India's pre-existing
Indian religions , often in puritanical form. Later, the
Bahmani Sultanate
and
Deccan Sultanates
flourished in the south.
Delhi Sultanate
Qutub Minar
is the world's tallest brick
minaret , commenced by
Qutb-ud-din Aybak
of the
Slave dynasty . Main article:
Delhi Sultanate In the 12th and 13th centuries,
Turkics
and
Pashtuns
invaded parts of northern India and established the
Delhi Sultanate
at the beginning of the 13th century, in the former Rajput holdings. [ 49 ]
The subsequent
Slave dynasty
of Delhi managed to conquer large areas of
northern India , approximate to the ancient extent of the Guptas, while the
Khilji Empire
was also able to conquer most of
central India , but were ultimately unsuccessful in conquering and uniting most of the subcontinent. The Sultanate ushered in a period of Indian cultural renaissance. The resulting "Indo-Muslim" fusion of cultures left lasting syncretic monuments in architecture, music, literature, religion, and clothing. It is surmised that the language of
Urdu
(literally meaning "horde" or "camp" in various Turkic dialects) was born during the Delhi Sultanate period as a result of the inter-mingling of the local speakers of Sanskritic
Prakrits
with the Persian, Turkic and Arabic speaking immigrants under the Muslim rulers. The Delhi Sultanate is the only Indo-Islamic empire to stake a claim to enthroning one of the few female rulers in India,
Razia Sultan
(1236–1240).
A
Turco-Mongol
conqueror
Timur
began a trek starting in 1398 to invade the reigning
Sultan
Nasir-u Din Mehmud of the
Tughlaq
Dynasty in the north Indian city of
Delhi . [ 50 ]
The Sultan's army was defeated on December 17, 1398. Timur entered Delhi and the city was sacked, destroyed and left in ruins; his army fell killing and plundering for three days and nights. He ordered except for the Sayyids, the scholars, and the other Mussulmans, the whole city to be sacked; 100,000 war prisoners, mostly Hindus, were put to death in one day. [ 51 ]
The Mughal era
Extent of the
Mughal Empire
in 1700.
Taj Mahal , built by the Mughals
Main article:
Mughal Empire See also:
Babur ,
Humayun ,
Akbar the Great ,
Jahangir ,
Shah Jahan , and
Aurangzeb In 1526,
Babur , a
Timurid
descendant of
Timur
and
Genghis Khan , swept across the
Khyber Pass
and established the
Mughal Empire . [ 52 ]
However, his son
Humayun
was defeated by the Afghan warrior
Sher Shah Suri
in the year 1540, and Humayun was forced to retreat to
Kabul . After Sher Shah's death his son
Islam Shah
and Hindu king
Samrat Hem Chandra Vikramaditya , who had won 22 battles from
Punjab
to
Bengal
and had established a secular Hindu Raj, ruled North India from
Delhi
till 1556, when
Akbar 's forces defeated and killed
Hemu
in the
Second Battle of Panipat
on 6th Nov. 1556. The
Mughal Dynasty
ruled most of the Indian subcontinent by 1600; it went into a slow decline after 1707 and was finally defeated during the
1857 War of Independence
also called the Indian Rebellion of 1857. This period marked vast social change in the subcontinent as the Hindu majority were ruled over by the Mughal emperors; most of them showed religious tolerance, liberally patronising Hindu culture. The famous emperor Akbar, who was the grandson of Babar, tried to establish a good relationship with the Hindus. However, later emperors such as Aurangazeb tried to establish complete Muslim dominance and as a result several historical temples were destroyed during this period and taxes imposed on non-Muslims. During the decline of the Mughal Empire, which at its peak occupied an area similar to the ancient Maurya Empire, several smaller empires rose to fill the power vacuum or themselves were contributing factors to the decline. The Mughals were perhaps the richest single dynasty to have ever existed. In 1739,
Nader Shah
defeated the Mughal army at the huge
Battle of Karnal . After this victory, Nader captured and sacked Delhi, carrying away many treasures, including the
Peacock Throne . [ 53 ]
During the Mughal era, the dominant political forces consisted of the Mughal Empire and its tributaries and, later on, the rising successor states - including the
Maratha confederacy
- who fought an increasingly weak and disfavoured Mughal dynasty. The Mughals, while often employing brutal tactics to subjugate their empire, had a policy of integration with Indian culture, which is what made them successful where the short-lived Sultanates of Delhi had failed. Akbar the Great was particularly famed for this. Akbar declared "Amari" or non-killing of animals in the holy days of Jainism. He rolled back the
Jazia Tax
for non-Muslims. The Mughal Emperors married local royalty, allied themselves with local Maharajas, and attempted to fuse their Turko-Persian culture with ancient Indian styles, creating unique
Indo-Saracenic
architecture. It was the erosion of this tradition coupled with increased brutality and centralization that played a large part in their downfall after
Aurangzeb , who unlike previous emperors, imposed relatively non-pluralistic policies on the general population, that often inflamed the majority Hindu population.
Post-Mughal period Main articles:
Maratha Empire ,
Kingdom of Mysore ,
Hyderabad State ,
Sikh Empire ,
Rajputs , and
Durrani Empire See also:
History of Sikhism Further information:
Shivaji ,  Tippu Sultan ,  Nizam ,  Ranjit Singh , and  Ahmad Shah Abdali
The
Maratha Empire
in 1760. The last
Hindu
empire of
India .
Harmandir Sahib
or
The Golden Temple
is culturally the most significant place of worship for the
Sikhs .
The post-Mughal era was dominated by the rise of the Maratha suzerainty as other small regional states (mostly post-Mughal tributary states) emerged, and also by the increasing activities of European powers (see colonial era below). The Maratha Kingdom was founded and consolidated by
Shivaji . By the 18th century, it had transformed itself into the
Maratha Empire
under the rule of the
Peshwas . By 1760, the Empire had stretched across practically the entire subcontinent. This expansion was brought to an end by the defeat of the Marathas by an
Afghan
army led by
Ahmad Shah Abdali
at the
Third Battle of Panipat
(1761). The last Peshwa, Baji Rao II, was defeated by the
British
in the
Third Anglo-Maratha War .
Mysore was a kingdom of southern India, which was founded around 1400 CE by the
Wodeyar
dynasty. The rule of the Wodeyars was interrupted by
Hyder Ali
and his son
Tippu Sultan . Under their rule Mysore fought a
series of wars
sometimes against the combined forces of the British and Marathas, but mostly against the British with some aid or promise of aid from the
French . Hyderabad was founded by the
Qutb Shahi dynasty
of
Golconda
in 1591. Following a brief Mughal rule,
Asif Jah , a Mughal official, seized control of Hyderabad declaring himself Nizam-al-Mulk of Hyderabad in 1724. It was ruled by a hereditary
Nizam
from 1724 until 1948. Both Mysore and Hyderabad became princely states in British India.
The Punjabi kingdom, ruled by members of the
Sikh
religion, was a political entity that governed the region of modern day Punjab. This was among the last areas of the subcontinent to be conquered by the British. The
Anglo-Sikh wars
marked the downfall of the
Sikh Empire . Around the 18th century modern
Nepal
was formed by
Gorkha
rulers.
Colonial era Main article:
Colonial India Vasco da Gama 's maritime success to discover for Europeans a new sea route to India in 1498 paved the way for direct Indo-European commerce. [ 54 ]
The
Portuguese
soon set up trading-posts in
Goa ,
Daman ,
Diu
and
Bombay . The next to arrive were the
Dutch , the
British —who set up a trading-post in the west-coast port of
Surat [ 55 ]
in 1619—and the
French . The internal conflicts among Indian Kingdoms gave opportunities to the European traders to gradually establish political influence and appropriate lands. Although these continental European powers were to control various coastal regions of southern and eastern India during the ensuing century, they would eventually lose all their territories in India to the British islanders, with the exception of the French outposts of
Pondicherry
and
Chandernagore , the Dutch port of
Travancore , and the Portuguese colonies of
Goa ,
Daman , and
Diu .
The British Raj Main article:
British Raj
The
British East India Company
had been given permission by the Mughal emperor Jahangir in 1617 to trade in India. [ 56 ]
Gradually their increasing influence led the
de-jure
Mughal emperor
Farrukh Siyar
to grant them
dastaks
or permits for duty free trade in
Bengal
in 1717. [ 57 ]
The
Nawab of Bengal
Siraj Ud Daulah , the
de facto
ruler of the Bengal province, opposed British attempts to use these permits. This led to the
Battle of Plassey
in 1757, in which the 'army' of East India Company, led by
Robert Clive , defeated the Nawab's forces. This was the first political foothold with territorial implications that the British acquired in India. Clive was appointed by the Company as its first 'Governor of Bengal' in 1757. [ 58 ]
This was combined with British victories over the French at
Madras ,
Wandiwash
and
Pondicherry
that, along with wider
British successes during the Seven Years War , reduced French influence in India. After the
Battle of Buxar
in 1764, the Company acquired the civil rights of administration in Bengal from the Mughal Emperor
Shah Alam II ; it marked the beginning of its formal rule, which was to engulf eventually most of India and extinguish the Moghul rule and dynasty itself in a century. [ 59 ]
The East India Company monopolized the trade of Bengal. They introduced a land taxation system called the
Permanent Settlement
which introduced a
feudal -like structure (See
Zamindar ) in Bengal. By the 1850s, the East India Company controlled most of the Indian sub-continent, which included present-day Pakistan and Bangladesh. Their policy was sometimes summed up as
Divide and Rule , taking advantage of the enmity festering between various princely states and social and religious groups.
The first major movement against the British Company's high handed rule resulted in the
Indian Rebellion of 1857 , also known as the "Indian Mutiny" or "Sepoy Mutiny" or the "First War of Independence". After a year of turmoil, and reinforcement of the East India Company's troops with British soldiers, the Company overcame the rebellion. The nominal leader of the uprising, the last Mughal emperor
Bahadur Shah Zafar , was exiled to Burma, his children were beheaded and the Moghul line abolished. In the aftermath all power was transferred from the East India Company to the
British Crown , which began to administer most of India as a colony; the Company's lands were controlled directly and the rest through the rulers of what it called the
Princely states . There were 565 princely states when the Indian subcontinent gained independence from Britain in August 1947. [ 60 ]
During the
British Raj ,
famines in India , often attributed to failed government policies, were some of the worst ever recorded, including the
Great Famine of 1876–78 , in which 6.1 million to 10.3 million people died [ 61 ]
and the
Indian famine of 1899–1900 , in which 1.25 to 10 million people died. [ 61 ]
The
Third Plague Pandemic
started in China in the middle of the 19th century, spreading plague to all inhabited continents and killing 10 million people in India alone. [ 62 ]
Despite persistent diseases and famines, however, the population of the
Indian subcontinent , which stood at about 125 million in 1750, had reached 389 million by 1941. [ 63 ]
The Indian Independence movement Main articles:
Indian independence movement
and
Pakistan Movement See also:
Mahatma Gandhi  and
Freedom fighters of India
Rabindranath Tagore
is
Asia 's first
Nobel laureate
and composer of national anthems of both
India
and
Bangladesh .
Gandhi
and
Nehru
in 1937. The physical presence of the British in India was not significant. Yet the British were able to rule two-thirds of the subcontinent directly, and exercise considerable leverage over the
Princely States
that accounted for the remaining one-third. The British employed " Divide and Rule " in
British India
as a means of preventing an uprising against the Raj. [ 64 ]
In this environment of Hindu-Muslim disunity, the first step toward Indian independence and western-style democracy was taken with the appointment of Indian councilors to advise the British
viceroy , [ 65 ]
and with the establishment of provincial Councils with Indian members; the councillors' participation was subsequently widened in legislative councils. [ 66 ]
From 1920 leaders such as
Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi
began highly popular mass movements to campaign against the British Raj, using largely peaceful methods. Some other revolutionaries adopted militant approach;
revolutionary activities
against the British rule took place throughout the Indian sub-continent. The profound impact
Gandhi
had on India and his ability to gain independence through a totally non-violent mass movement made him lead by example, wearing a minimum of
homespun
clothes to
weaken
the British textile industry and orchestrating a
march to the sea , where demonstrators proceeded to make their own salt in protest against the British monopoly. Indians gave him the name Mahatma, or Great Soul, first suggested by the Bengali poet
Rabindranath Tagore .
Subash Chandra Bose , a great freedom fighter, had organised a formidable army to fight against the British rule.
Bhagat Singh
was another Indian freedom fighter, considered to be one of the most influential revolutionaries of the Indian independence movement; he is often referred to as Shaheed Bhagat Singh (the word shaheed means "martyr"). These movements succeeded in bringing Independence to the Indian sub-continent in 1947. One year later, Gandhi was assassinated. However, he did live long enough to free his homeland and is thus recognised as the father of his nation.
Independence and Partition Main articles:
Partition of India ,
History of the Republic of India ,
History of Pakistan , and
History of Bangladesh Along with the desire for independence, tensions between Hindus and Muslims had also been developing over the years. The Muslims had always been a minority, and the prospect of an exclusively Hindu government made them wary of independence; they were as inclined to mistrust Hindu rule as they were to resist the foreign Raj, although
Gandhi
called for unity between the two groups in an astonishing display of leadership. The British, extremely weakened by the
World War II , promised that they would leave and the
British Indian
territories gained independence in 1947, after being
partitioned
into the
Union of India
and
Dominion of Pakistan . Following the controversial division of pre-partition
Punjab
and
Bengal , rioting broke out between Sikhs, Hindus and Muslims in these provinces and spread to several other parts of India, leaving some 500,000 dead. [ 67 ]
Also, this period saw one of the largest mass migrations ever recorded in modern history, with a total of 12 million Hindus, Sikhs and Muslims moving between the newly created nations of
India
and
Pakistan
(which gained independence on 15 and 14 August 1947 respectively). [ 67 ]
In 1971,
Bangladesh , formerly
East Pakistan
and
East Bengal , seceded from Pakistan. The histories of each of these modern nations can be found on the respective pages shown above.
b
bharath
No comments:
LABRERY OF CONGRES
at
8:10 AM
Older Posts
Home
Subscribe to:
Posts (Atom)
Loading...
There was an error in this gadget
Recent Posts
Blogger Archive Calendar
There was an error in this gadget
There was an error in this gadget
Windows Live Messenger
Support the Haiti Disaster Relief Effort
Powered by Blogger
last lost look of gandhi
gandhi in art ateck
gandhi with south ofricans
gandhi in miting
Gandhi with Khadhi chatra
Gandhi in jail
Gandhi in
Indian
corence
IT Was Her Proparti
Gandhi in padyatra
Gandhi with her freinds
Gandhi
with Nehru
Gandhi in Udhyama
Gandhi in South Ofrica
Young Gandhi
gandhi with her family
gandhi s wife
gandhi in uppu sthyagraha
gandhi with youva kishor
Gandhi in i dandi
you want help me so mail me
help me i am a poor student
burrebharath@yahoo.com
Picture Window template. Powered by
Blogger .