ipernity: Long Pig by Raghead E Villdoer
Explore
Sign up!
Sign in
Raghead E Villdoer
Photos
Albums
Articles
Docs
Groups
Contacts
Most recent
Oldest
Raghead E Villdoer's articles
Ritual
-
U
nder his wings, the plain is an expanse of cinders and grey ash.
He circles, looking for…
-
August 27, 2012
Long Pig
-
August 24, 2012
An Eye For An I
-
You know how we Indians love and honour our women? Oh, you don’t? Well, we Indians love and honour o…
-
August 23, 2012
See all articles...
Keywords
science
•
evolution
•
Authorizations, license
Visible by: Everyone (public).
All rights reserved
326 visits
Long Pig
By
Raghead E Villdoer
August 24, 2012
-
1 comment
You know the story, repeated
ad nauseam
in bad nineteenth-century novels like RM Ballantyne’s
The Coral Island , a whole genre of Italian exploitation films, and cartoons galore: explorer or missionary goes into the jungles of darkest Africa or South America, or ends up being shipwrecked on a Pacific island. Explorer or missionary is captured by savage native peoples and – if not saved at the last moment by the hero – is boiled in a pot and eaten. There’s even a name for it: Long Pig.
Well, did this ever actually happen?
Back when I was in school, I remember reading an article in a science magazine on cannibalism. According to that article, actual verified instances of cannibalism were incredibly rare, if one disregarded instances of starving people resorting to it in
extreme situations
(or, as a corollary, psychopaths like the German cannibal
Armin Meiwes ).
These are not cannibals
This is a cannibal
Specifically, the article considered
cultural
cannibalism – cannibalism as a cultural practice. What it said was that most instances cited could be put down to one of these factors:
1.
Missionary and explorer propaganda, designed to impress Europeans with tales of the savage and how valiant white men had to take on the burden of civilising them. One instance would be an account during the voyage of Captain Cook, where
“As Cook examined one of these bones, he realised in consternation that it might be from a human forearm. He asked one of the family members if these were not dog bones, but in answer the man took hold of the flesh of his own forearm and pretended to chew it.
Joseph Bank noted later:
Tho we had from the first of our arrival upon the [New Zealand] coast constantly heard the Indians acknowledge the custom of eating their enemies we had never before had a proof of it, but this amounted almost to demonstration: the bones were clearly human, ... and on the grisly ends which were gnawed were evident marks of teeth, and these were accidentally found in a provision basket. ”
[ Source
]
However, unless those bones were preserved and can be tested today for toothmarks in a forensic lab, I’d say that without independent confirmation, Captain Cook’s account can be firmly put in that category.
2.
A lot of tribes told tales of
other
tribes who ate human flesh. In fact, these tribes used it as a propaganda weapon against their rivals. Missionaries told of how tribes would tell them, “Do not go up river, because the tribes there are fierce, and they eat men.” Whether they
actually
ate people was moot – the intention was to prejudice the listener. (And this also raises the question of why the listener should be prejudiced by hearing this, which is something we’ll be discussing later in this article.)
In either of these cases, the “evidence”, such as it is, seems
anecdotal
rather than hard; rather like the “evidence” for the Loch Ness Monster, which only makes sense if one accepts the Monster (or the phenomenon of cannibalism) is real
to start off with , rather than keeping an open mind.
This isn’t meant to be confused with
headhunting , a practice which most definitely existed, and well into the twentieth century among some peoples like the Shuar (“Jivaro”) of South America who are infamous for creating shrunken heads. In fact, the Shuar practice was actually encouraged by Westerners who bought the shrunken heads as curios and created a market for them.
Also, there’s the curious case of
human sacrifice , which occurred all over the world, from the
Aztecs
(who cut the beating hearts out of their sacrificial victims with obsidian knives) to India, where bandit gangs would sacrifice captives to the goddess Kali. (As a matter of fact, stray incidents of human sacrifice, generally of kidnapped children, still occur in India today. One happened in the western part of
this
state earlier this year.) The interesting thing is that both taking heads for trophies and sacrificing humans to please the gods stood as stand-alone practices. They were not followed by the general consumption of the flesh of the victim, even though sacrificed goats or chickens are eaten.
Going on that basis, there does seem to be something of a cultural taboo against cannibalism.
I’m not saying there weren’t stray incidents of cannibalism, of course. It’s perfectly possible that some warriors might have eaten, for instance, the hearts of their enemies in the belief that it would give them the enemy’s courage. What I am saying is that this wouldn’t rank as a regular, continuous practice which might be considered to be part of a culture.
Why should this be? Why should humans, who consume caterpillars and whales with equal felicity, have a revulsion against eating their own kind?
If one can eat
this ...
I believe we can find an explanation.
If you think about it, cannibalism isn’t all that common in nature. Starving lions and hyaenas, wolves and jackals won’t eat dead members of the group even if in extremis. Spiders, scorpions, sharks and Humboldt squids will, on occasion, but you’ll find that on the whole there are more predators who won’t eat their own sort than those who will – and among mammals, cannibalism is remarkably hard to find.
And there is
forced cannibalism , as of cattle being fed the ground up body parts of their fellows. This is a routine practice in factory farming, but hasn’t had very good effects – bovine spongiform encephalopathy, also called “mad cow disease”, is spread when cattle are forced to consume beef products to give them cheap, easily assimilated protein. The cause of this is something called a
prion .
What are prions? This isn’t a digression, because I believe prions are an important explanation for the relative rarity of steady cannibalism in human societies and in nature.
A
prion
is probably the simplest and smallest external disease-causing factor which exists. Unlike bacteria, fungi or protozoa, prions aren’t living organisms. They aren’t even on the border of living and non-living, like viruses. Prions don’t have DNA or RNA; they are simply improperly folded proteins. When introduced into an organism, like a crystal which when put in a saturated solution of a salt causes salt to precipitate out of the solution, the prion causes normal proteins to convert into the prion form, which then goes on to cause cell damage and eventually cell death, to the detriment of the organism as a whole. Cows develop holes in their brains caused by swallowing prions along with beef products meant to fatten them up.
That’s
bovine spongiform encephalopathy.
And it’s not just cattle, either. There’s the case of
human
spongiform encephalopathy.
As far as I know, there’s only one cultural instance of what might be called cannibalism, and that is in the Fore tribe of Papua New Guinea. Among these people, the bodies of the dead used to be ceremonially consumed by their fellow villagers, in a practice intended to return the deceased person’s “life force” to the village. This was the cause of transmission of a prion causing a disease called
Kuru
or “laughing sickness”, an incurable degenerative malady of the central nervous system.
One of the features of Kuru is that t he majority of victims were women and children ; this was because the prions were concentrated in the brain, which was among the body parts left for women and children to consume after the men had taken the choice parts, the muscle and fat.
Considered on this basis, the taboo against cannibalism might make real, evolutionary sense.
Some
ancient protohumans, like Peking Man, were perhaps cannibals, but the
practice doesn't ever seem to have become widespread across protohuman
populations.
Why not?
If a society – or a species – had a high incidence of cannibalism, the circulation of prions would mean that there would be a high level of debility and mortality among those who did eat their own kind. Those who did not, for whatever reason, would have a higher chance of spreading their genes to the next generation, thus ensuring that their offspring would also be less liable to be eaters of their own dead. Simple evolutionary competition would then mean the non-cannibals would displace the cannibals.
Pretty soon, cannibalism would become a
biological
threat to the tribe, even though its members wouldn’t consciously verbalise it to themselves in
such terms. What they’d do is condemn cannibalism as a forbidden act, like
incest, another extremely common taboo worldwide. (If at all it was allowed,
only specific categories of people - like priests - would be permitted
it, and then only of ritually permissible parts of the body, like the
heart, which wouldn't be loaded with prions.)
In general, cannibals would be worthy of disgust and hatred, something less than human.
And that’s why the missionaries and the explorers lied.
Comments
Sparky The Imp
Interesting. I often have thought about this. I knew of extreme rare case, and a few psychopaths here and there.
Very imformative
3 years ago .
Please sign-in
to write a comment.
RSS feed
Latest comments
–
Subscribe to the feed of comments related to this post.
ipernity © 2007-2015
Help & Contact
|
The ipernity Team blog
|
About ipernity
|
Thanks!
|
The ipernity Club
Guide of good conduct
|
Group guidelines
|
Privacy Policy
|
Terms of service
ipernity for iPhone / iPad
new
|
ipernity for Android
new
|
Developers space
Facebook
Google +
Twitter
Find us on:
Language
English
Català
Čeština
中文
Deutsch
English
Español
Esperanto
Ελληνικά
Français
Galego
Italiano
Nederlands
Português
Polski
Svenska
Русский
More...
ipernity requires FLASH Player version 9 or above
Your browser seems too old or javascript is deactivated.
Please use a recent browser:
Mozilla Firefox
Google Chrome
Safari
Internet Explorer 9