BEPS
Update:
2012-01-02 09:10 PM +0630
TIL
Sanskrit English Dictionary
ku-p052top-2.htm
from: Online Sanskrit Dictionary, February 12, 2003 .
http://sanskritdocuments.org/dict/dictall.pdf   090907
Downloaded, set in HTML, and edited by U Kyaw Tun,
M.S. (I.P.S.T., U.S.A.), and staff of TIL Computing
and Language Centre, Yangon, Myanmar.
Not for sale.
No copyright. Free for everyone.
index.htm
|
Top
SED-con-r1-indx.htm
Contents of this page
{ ku. } कु
{ ku.ka. }
{ koak~ka. }
कुक्क : UKT - unless I make extreme vowel changes from <u> to <oa->
transcription become unreliable - 100603
{ ku.sa. }
कुच
{ ku.Ta. }
कुट
{ ku.ta. }
कुत
{ koan~ } कुन्
{ ku.pa. }
कुप
{ ku.ya. }
कुय
{ ku.ra. }
कर
Noteworthy passages in this file:
• "Though a well known 	monarchical people in earlier period,
the Kurus are known to have switched to republic form of government
during sixth/fifth century BCE. Fourth century BCE
Kautiliya 's
Arthashastra
also attests the Kurus as following
the
Rajashabdopajivin
(king consul) constitution
(11/1/1-4)."
UKT: In the West we see the republican
governance changing to monarchical with the Romans,
but in India (at least among the Kurus) the reverse
took place only to be replaced again by the monarchical
which ended with the British occupation of India in
the 18th century. Now India is a republic. What
about the land of Myanmar? We must look back to
the times of Pyus well before their final destruction
by the Mons (in the 5th century ?) and the eventual
absorption by the Burmese in the Pagan period. --
UKT 100425
UKT notes
•
Bhishma
•
Kundulini
- coiled energy
•
Kuntibhoja
•
Kuru Kingdom
•
Kuruksetra
(place)
•
Kurukshetra War
कुरुक्षेत्र
युद्ध
Contents of this page
{ ku. } कु
{ ku.ka. }
कुक
not entered in OnlineSktDict
¤ कुंकुम्य-
केत्विक
शुल्बीय
kuṃkumya-ketvika
śulbīya
Skt:  कुंकुम्य-
केत्विक
शुल्बीय
kuṃkumya-ketvika śulbīya
n.
croceo- cobaltic sulphate  [ Chem. ]
- SpkSkt
¤ कुख्याति
kukhyāti
Skt: कुख्याति
kukhyāti
f .   infamy - SpkSkt
Contents of this page
p052top-2
• कुपरीक्षक
(kupariikShaka)
Skt: कुपरीक्षक
(kupariikShaka) - one who cannot judge value correctly - OnlineSktDict
• कुंजरः (ku.njaraH)
Skt: कुंजरः
(ku.njaraH) -
m.nom.S   elephant - OnlineSktDict
Pal: kuñjara
m .  an elephant - UPMT-PED075
Pal:
{koañ~za.ra.} -
- UHS-PMD0324
UKT note: I am not satisfied with my above Romabama transcription. -
UKT100624
•
कुकुटासन
(kukuTaasana)
Skt: कुकुटासन
(kukuTaasana) - the cockerel (rooster) posture - OnlineSktDict
See my note on
-
kukutasana
Contents of this page
{ koak~ka. }
कुक्क
not entered in OnlineSktDict
UKT: In going from कुकु (kuku} to
कुक्कु (kukku),
transcription change is simple in Devanagari. However,
in Myanmar, unless I make extreme vowel changes as
{ku.ku.} to
{koak~ku.}, transcription is unreliable. - UKT 100602
Problem of transcription in Burmese-Myanmar
English speakers not used to Burmese-Myanmar language
and script generally complain of the unreliability of
Burmese transcription of place and people names. To
throw some light on this problem, I have looked into
a sister script, the Devanagari. As an example, in going
from कुकु (kuku) to
कुक्कु (kukku) ,
the change is simply to add a (k) without any change
to the preceding vowel (u). I do not find such a simple
change in Myanmar. The change is: {ku.ku.} to {koak~ku.}
with an extreme vowel change in the first syllable.
Please note that Burmese is monophthongal and {oa} is
not a diphthong, but only a digraph.
Posted by U Kyaw Tun aka Joe Tun, 100603,
www.tuninst.net
Contents of this page
p052top-3
• कुक्कुट
(kukkuTa)
Skt: कुक्कुट
(kukkuTa) - rooster - OnlineSktDict
Pal: kukkuṭa
m .  a cock - UPMT-PED075
Pal:
{koak~ku.Ta.}
-
UHS-PMD0322
• कुक्कुटः
(kukkuTaH)
Skt: कुक्कुटः
(kukkuTaH) - (m) cock - OnlineSktDict
Contents of this page
p052b1
• कुक्कुटी
(kukkuTii)
Skt: कुक्कुटी
(kukkuTii) - (f) - OnlineSktDict
• कुक्कुरः
(kukkuraH)
Skt: कुक्कुरः
(kukkuraH) -
m . dog - OnlineSktDict
Pal: kukkura
m .  a dog - UPMT-PED075
Pal:
{koak~ku.ra.}
-
UHS-PMD0323
• कुङ्मलः
(ku.nmalaH)
Skt: कुङ्मलः
(ku.nmalaH) -
m . button - OnlineSktDict
Contents of this page
{ ku.sa. }
कुच
UKT: Do not get confused with
{ku.þa.}
कस , nor with
{ku.Sa.}
कष.
{ ku.sa. }
कुच is formed with palatal stop {sa.}, but
{ku.Sa.}
कष is formed
with dental fricative {sa.}. Though it would have been better to introduce a
different grapheme for one, however it is not necessary for Burmese-Myanmar, because
the
palatal phoneme usually occurs as the coda and the dental as the onset. -
UKT 100604
¤
कुच  kuca
Skt:
कुच  kuca
m . breast [of human being] -
SpkSkt
Pal:  kuca
m . the female breast, the pomegranate - UPMT-PED075
Pal:
{ku.sa.}
-
UHS-PMD0323
¤
कुचफल
kucaphala
Skt: कुचफल
kucaphala
m . pomegranate - SpkSkt
¤
कुचरित  kucarita
Skt: कुचरित  kucarita
n .
abuse of office, malpractice [in office] - SpkSkt
¤
कुछ
kucha
Skt: कुछ
kucha
m .  female breast  - SpkSkt
Contents of this page
p052b1-2
• कुज (kuja)
Skt: कुज (kuja) - [the planet]
Mars - OnlineSktDict
Skt: कुज  kuja
m .
tree;
n . horizon  - SpkSkt
Pal: kuja
m .  a tree - UPMT-PED075
Pal:
{ku.za.}
-
UHS-PMD0323
• कुजदोष (kujadoshha)
Skt: कुजदोष (kujadoshha) - affliction caused
by Mars in the 2nd, 4th, 7th, 8th or 12 houses - OnlineSktDict
Contents of this page
{ ku.Ta. } कुट
p052b1-3
• कुटी (kuTii)
Skt: कुटी (kuTii) -
f .
a small hut - OnlineSktDict
Pal: kuṭī
f . a house, hut,
tent, shed - UPMT-PED075
Pal:
{ku.Ti}
-
UHS-PMD0324
• कुटीचक (kuTiichaka)
Skt: कुटीचक (kuTiichaka) - the hut-builder - OnlineSktDict
• कुटील्बुद्धी
(kuTiilbuddhii)
Skt: कुटील्बुद्धी
(kuTiilbuddhii) - adj. heinous, attrocious, nefarious - OnlineSktDict
• कुटुंबकं
(kuTuMbakaM)
Skt: कुटुंबकं
(kuTuMbakaM) - small family - OnlineSktDict
• कुटुम्ब
(kuTumba)
Skt: कुटुम्ब
(kuTumba) - family - OnlineSktDict
Pal: kuṭumba -
n . family, property,
estates - UPMT-PED075
Pal:
{ku.Toam~ba.}
-
UHS-PMD0325
Contents of this page
p052b2
• कुटुम्बक
(kuTumbaka)
Skt: कुटुम्बक
(kuTumbaka) - family - OnlineSktDict
• कुट्टति
(kuTTati)
Skt: कुट्टति
(kuTTati) - to grind, to pound - OnlineSktDict
• कुण्ड (kuNDa)
Skt: कुण्ड (kuNDa) - starting place of kundalini -
OnlineSktDict
Skt: कुण्ड  kuṇḍa
n .  bowlshaped vessel, water-pot, pot,
pitcher, bowl, basin - SpkSkt
Pal: kuṇḍa
m . an iguana;
n . a water-pot, well - UPMT-PED076
Pal:
{koaN~ða.}
-
UHS-PMD0325
• कुण्डल
(kuNDala)
Skt: कुण्डल
(kuNDala) - coil of rope, ring - OnlineSktDict
Pal: kuṇḍala
n . a ring, earring - UPMT-PED076
Pal:
{koaN~ða.la.}
-
UHS-PMD0326
• कुण्डलि
(kuNDali)
Skt: कुण्डलि
(kuNDali) - The Wheel or Horoscope Chart - OnlineSktDict
•
कुण्डलिनी
(kuNDalinii)
Skt: कुण्डलिनी
(kuNDalinii) - a coiled female snake, the latent energy at the base of the spine
- OnlineSktDict
See my note on
Kundalini
(Skt:
कुण्डलिन
kuṇḍalinī
, Thai: กุณฺฑลินี)
Contents of this page
{ ku.ta. }
कुत
p052b2-2
• कुतः (kutaH)
Skt: कुतः (kutaH) - from where - OnlineSktDict
• कुत्र (kutra)
Skt: कुत्र (kutra) - where - OnlineSktDict
• कुत्सय (kutsya)
Skt: कुत्सय (kutsya) - despicable - OnlineSktDict
¤ कुथ  kutha
Skt: कुथ  kutha
m . carpet - SpkSkt
Pal: kutha
mn . a woolen blanket, howdah - UPMT-PED076
• कुन्चिका
(kunchikaa)
Skt: कुन्चिका
(kunchikaa) - (f) key - OnlineSktDict
Contents of this page
{ koan~ } कुन्
p052b3
• कुन्तः (kuntaH)
Skt: कुन्तः (kuntaH) -
m . spear - OnlineSktDict
Pal: kunta
mf .  a lance, insect -
UPMT-PED076
Pal:
{koan~ta.}
-
UHS-PMD0327
• कुन्तिभोजः
(kuntibhojaH)
Skt: कुन्तिभोजः
(kuntibhojaH) - Kuntibhoja - OnlineSktDict
See my note on
Kuntibhoja
- father of Kunti the mother of Pandavas
• कुन्तीपुत्रः
(kuntiiputraH)
Skt: कुन्तीपुत्रः
(kuntiiputraH) - the son of Kuntiv - OnlineSktDict
• कुन्द (kunda)
Skt: कुन्द (kunda) -
night lily - OnlineSktDict
Pal: kunda
n . the many-flowered jasamine -
UPMT-PED076
Pal:
{koan~da.}
-
UHS-PMD0327
Contents of this page
{ ku.pa. }
कुप
p052b3-2
• कुपित (kupita)
Skt: कुपित (kupita) - angered - OnlineSktDict
• कुपितं (kupitaM)
Skt: कुपितं (kupitaM) - angry - OnlineSktDict
•
कुप्यति (kupyati)
Skt: कुप्यति (kupyati) (4 pp) to be
angry - OnlineSktDict
•
कुप्यसि
(kupyasi)
Skt: कुप्यसि
(kupyasi) - you get angry - OnlineSktDict
•
कुमार (kumaara)
Skt:
कुमार (kumaara) -
m . boy, young -
OnlineSktDict
Pal: kumāra
m . a child, youth, the god of war;
adj . young -
UPMT-PED076
Pal:
{ku.ma-ra.}
- UHS-PMD0327
•
कुमारः (kumaarah)
Skt: कुमारः (kumaarah) - boy - OnlineSktDict
Contents of this page
p052b4
•
कुमारिका
(kumaarikaa)
Skt: कुमारिका
(kumaarikaa) - (f) girl - OnlineSktDict
Contents of this page
p053top
• कुमारी (kumaarii)
Skt: कुमारी (kumaarii) - (f) girl, young - OnlineSktDict
• कुम्भ (kumbha)
Skt: कुम्भ  (kumbha) m. the Zodiacal sign of Aquarius - OnlineSktDict
Skt: कुम्भ  kumbha
m .  water-pot  - SpkSkt
Pal: kumbha
m .  a water-pot, elephant's forehead, a measure of
capacity - UPMT-PED077
Pal:
{koam~Ba.}
UHS-PMD0328
UKT note to Myanmar Astrologers: All the 12 Zodiacal signs have Western
equivalents which are denoted by dedicated logos which reflect their names:
01.♈, 02.♉, 03.♊; 04.♋, 05.♌, 06.♍; 07.♎, 08.♏, 09.♐; 10.♑, 11.♒, 12.♓.
Thus, the logo for #11. ♒ Aquarius the Water-carrier shows the waves on the
surface of a body of water. - UKT100619
• कुम्भक (kumbhaka)
Skt: कुम्भक (kumbhaka) - holding the breath
- OnlineSktDict
Contents of this page
{ ku.ya. }
कुय
not entered in OnlineSktDict
p053top-2
•
कुरङ्ग (kura.nga)
Skt:
कुरङ्ग (kura.nga) - deer - OnlineSktDict
Pal: kuruṅga
m .  an antelope - UPMT-PED077
Pal:
{ku.rïn~ga.}
-
UHS-PMD0329
•
कुरु (kuru)
Skt: कुरु (kuru) - do - OnlineSktDict
•
कुरुते (kurute)
Skt: कुरुते (kurute) - does (from kRi) - OnlineSktDict
UKT: "Kuru" can mean many things including
a fatal human disease. It can also mean a kingdom of
Iron Age India. Archaeologically, it most likely
correspond to the
black and red ware
culture of the 12th to 9th
centuries BC. See
Kuru kingdom
in my notes.
Contents of this page
{ ku.ra. }
कर
p053top-3
•
कुरुनन्दन
(kurunandana)
Skt: कुरुनन्दन
(kurunandana) - O beloved child of the Kurus - OnlineSktDict
•
कुरुप्रवीर
(kurupraviira)
Skt: कुरुप्रवीर
(kurupraviira) - O best among the Kuru warriors - OnlineSktDict
•
कुरुवृद्धः
(kuruvRiddhaH) See my notes on
Bhishma
.
Skt: कुरुवृद्धः
(kuruvRiddhaH) - the grandsire of the Kuru dynasty (Bhishma) - OnlineSktDict
•
कुरुश्रेष्ठ
(kurushreshhTha)
Skt: कुरुश्रेष्ठ
(kurushreshhTha) - O best of the Kurus - OnlineSktDict
Contents of this page
p053b1
•
कुरुष्व(kurushhva)
Skt: कुरुष्व(kurushhva) - do - OnlineSktDict
•
कुरुसत्तम
(kurusattama)
Skt: कुरुसत्तम
(kurusattama) - O best amongst the Kurus - OnlineSktDict
•
कुरुक्षेत्रे
(kurukShetre) .
Skt: कुरुक्षेत्रे
(kurukShetre) - in the place named Kuruksetra - OnlineSktDict
See my notes on
Kuruksetra
(place) and
Kurukshetra War
(कुरुक्षेत्र युद्ध)
•
कुरून् (kuruun.h)
Skt: कुरून् (kuruun.h) - the members of the
Kuru dynasty - OnlineSktDict
Contents of this page
UKT notes
Bhishma
From Wikipedia:
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bhishma
100423
(For Vasu, see
wa-163b1-3.htm
downloaded from Wikipedia:
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vasu
100128
Bhishma
or
Bheeshma
is one of the strongest characters of the
Mahabharata. He was the grandfather of both the
Pandavas and
the Kauravas.
An unparalleled archer, he once vanquished the mighty
Parasurama .
UKT: Bhishma was not a "grandfather". "Granduncle" is more proper since
Bhishma had no progeny because he had taken the oath of life-long celibacy -
hence the name "Bhishma" or
He of the terrible oath
. See below.
Birth and early life
The legend behind Bhishma's birth is as follows — once the eight
Vasus
("Ashtavasus")
visited
Vashishta 's ashram accompanied by their wives. One of the wives took a fancy
to
Nandini ,
Vashishta's wish-bearing cow and asked her husband Prabhasa , and to steal it from
Vashishta. [UKT ¶]
UKT: Prabhasa meaning "shining dawn" in Mahabharata, or Dyaus meaning
"sky" in
Brihadaranyaka Upanishad. He is one of the 33 gods attending Indra or Sakka.
After studying BEPS aksharas for some years, I've come to entertain a notion
that these gods represent the consonants modifying the "flow" of sound
[represented by Saravati] coming out of the vocal apparatus. If so what does
Prabhasa represent? Please remember, this is just a "day dream" which I may
drop anytime. -- UKT 100424
Prabhasa then stole the cow with the help of the others who were all
consequently cursed by Vashishta to be born in the world of men. Upon the Vasus
appealing to Vashishta's mercy, the seven Vasus who had assisted in stealing
Nandini had their curse mitigated such that they would be liberated from their
human birth as soon as they were born; however, Prabhasa being protagonist of
the theft, was cursed to endure a longer life on the earth. The curse, however
is softened to the extent that he would be one of the most illustrious men of
his time. It was this Prabhasa who took birth as Devavratha (Bhishma).
Bhishma was born as the youngest son of the illustrious King
Shantanu
and
Ganga . As per the Mahabharata, Shantanu saw Ganga [UKT: the goddess of the
river in the guise of a human] on the banks of River
Ganga and enamored by her beauty, asked her to marry him. She agreed but with
the condition that Shantanu would never question her, no matter what her actions
— if he ever broke his promise, she would leave him, never to be a part of his
life again. Shantanu readily agreed to this seemingly harmless condition and was
thus married to Ganga. Eight children were born to this union, the eighth of
which was Bhishma himself. The seven siblings born before him were drowned by
their mother Ganga in order to break their curse — as they were incarnations of
the aforementioned Vasus, who do not like to live the life of Humans. Shantanu
silently bore the torture of watching his wife drown his offspring seven times.
However, when Ganga was about to drown Bhishma, Shantanu could no longer contain
his anguish and burst into protest. Ganga, aware of the eighth child's destiny
to live a long life on earth, did not drown the child. However, since Shantanu
had broken his promise given to her at marriage, she left Shantanu promising to
return the child to him once he is grown up.
During his time with his mother [UKT: the goddess Ganga], Bhishma learnt political science from
Brihaspati , the guru of the Devas, Vedas and Vedangas from Rishi
Vasishta , and archery from
Parashurama , also known as Bhargava, thus becoming an exceptionally skilled
administrator. His banner in battle was a golden palm tree.
He was known as 'Bhishma Pitamaha' ( Pitamaha
meaning the grandfather
or grandsire) among the
Pandavas and
the Kauravas.
Bhishma's vow
Bhishma means
He of the terrible oath , referring to his vow of
life-long celibacy. Originally named Devavratha, he became known as Bhishma
after he took the
bhishan pratigya
('terrible oath') — the vow of
life-long celibacy and of service to whoever sat on the throne of his father
(the throne of
Hastinapur ).
He took this oath so that his father, Shantanu could marry a fisherwoman
Satyavati
— Satyvati's father had refused to give his daughter's hand to Shantanu on the
grounds that his daughter's children would never be rulers as Shantanu already
had a son (Devratha). This made Shantanu despondent and upon discovering the
reason for his father's despondency, Devratha sought out the girl's father and
promised him that he would never stake a claim to the throne, implying that the
child born to Shantanu and Satyavati would become the ruler after Shantanu. At
this, Satyavati's father retorted that even if Devratha gave up his claim to the
throne, his (Devratha's) children would still claim the throne. Devratha then
took the terrible vow of life-long celibacy, thus sacrificing his 'crown-prince'
title and denying himself the pleasures of conjugal love. This gave him
immediate recognition among the gods and his father granted him the boon of
Swachhanda Mrityu
(control over his own death — he could choose the time of
his death, but he was not immortal). Bhishma also took another vow shortly after
the marriage of Shantanu and Satayavati. Bhishma vowed he would see his father's
image in whoever sat on the throne of Hastinapur and would serve him without
question. This vow ended up being the main cause of his problems later on when
his nephew
Dhritarashtra
took the throne and wished to make his own son,
Duryodhana
the crown prince instead of Dhritarashtra's brother Pandu's son
Yudhishtira
who was the elder to Duryodhana (and reckoned by all to be the
most worthy to become king). As a result Bhishma was forced to comply with all
of Dhritarashtra's orders no matter what injustice was done to the Pandavas.
Bhishma was a great archer and a warrior. In the process of finding a bride
for his half-brother the young king Vichitravirya, Bhishma cleverly abducted
princesses
Amba ,
Ambika
and
Ambalika
of Kashi ( Varanasi )
from the assemblage of suitors at their
swayamvara . Salwa, the ruler of Saubala, and Amba (the eldest princess) were
in love. Upon reaching Hastinapura, Amba confided in Bhishma that she wished to
wed Salwa. Bhishma then sent her back to Salwa who turned her down as it was
humiliating for a man to accept a woman who had been so long in the company of
another man. She then naturally approached Bhishma for marriage who refused her,
citing his oath. Amba, humiliated and enraged beyond measure, vowed to avenge
herself against Bhishma even if it meant being reborn over and over again.
Legend has it that at her maternal grandfather's suggestion Amba sought
refuge with
Parasurama
who ordered Bhishma to marry Amba. Bhishma politely refused
saying that he was ready to give up his life at the command of his teacher but
not the promise that he had made. Upon the refusal, Parasurama called him for a
fight at Kurukshetra. At the battlegrounds, while Bhishma was on a chariot,
Parasurama was on foot. Bhishma requested Parasurama to also take a chariot and
armor so that Bhishma would not have an unfair advantage. Parasurama blessed
Bhishma with the power of divine vision and asked him to look again. When
Bhishma looked at his guru with the divine eye-sight, he saw the Earth as
Parasurama's chariot, the four Vedas as the horses, the
Upanishads
as the reins,
Vayu
(wind) as the Charioteer and the Vedic goddesses Gayatri, Savitri & Saraswati as
the armor. Bhishma got down from the chariot and sought the blessings of
Parasurama to protect his dharma, along with the permission to battle against
his teacher. Parasurama was pleased and said to Bhishma that if he had not
behaved in this manner, Parasurama would have cursed him, for it is the duty of
warriors who fight against elders to not abandon the traditions of humility and
respect for elders. Parasurama blessed him and advised him to protect his dharma
of brahmacharya as Parasurama himself must fight to fulfil his dharma of
fighting to uphold his word as given to Amba. They fought for 23 days without
conclusion — Parasurama was chiranjeevi (immortal) and Bhishma had a boon that
let him choose the time of his death. Two versions exist about how their battle
came to and end.
As per one, On the 22nd night, Bhishma prayed to his ancestors to help him
end the battle. His ancestors gave him a weapon which was not known to
Parasurama. They told him that it would put Parasurama to sleep in the
battlefield. A person who sleeps in the battlefield is considered to be dead as
per Vedas. They advised Bhishma to call back the weapon at the end of day after
sunset so that Parasurama will come back to his sense and that shall bring the
end to war. However the weapon was never used as Bhishma walked out of the war.
As per the other version, on the 23rd day, Bhishma summoned the infallible
celestial weapon ( astra )
Prashvapastra , the method of using which was known to him and him alone.
Neither did a counter-attack exist, nor was a defense against it known to
Parasurama. As Bhishma mounted the astra on his bow, a divine voice (ākāshavānī)
implored Bhishma not to fire the weapon as its use would lead to the humiliation
of Bhishma's guru (Parasurama himself). Bhishma refrained from using the weapon
that would have brought him certain victory. Upon witnessing this, Parasurama
was overcome with adulation for his disciple and proclaimed Bhishma as the
victor.
Parasurama thus told Amba that he could not win over Bhishma and gave her the
boon of "mahakal shiva". Amba did penance to please Lord Shiva. Shiva gave her
the boon that she would be instrumental in the death of Bhishma. Amba would
later be reborn as the eunuch prince
Shikhandi
in the household of king
Drupada .
Personality, talents and achievements
Bhishma had a stature and personality that in those times were fit for kings.
He was a true Kshatriya as well as a disciplined ascetic - a rare combination.
He never unnecessarily exhibited the passion and anger that were identified with
a Kshatriya. A symbol of truth and duty, the benevolent Bhishma was in all
senses a true human.
It is unfortunate that a person as noble as Bhishma saw a life full of
loneliness, frustration and grief. But that was how Vashishta's curse was
supposed to unfold. Bhishma's human birth was destined to be marked with
suffering, and that was how his life transpired right till the last moment; even
his death was very painful. But the strong as steel character which he possessed
ensured that he never shied away from his duty, and never stopped loving those
dear to him.
Bhishma was not only a good warrior, but also highly skilled in political
science. He tried his best to bring reconciliation between Pandavas and Kauravas
to prevent the war. Even in the Kurukshetra war while he was the general he
tried his best to keep the war low key by minimising confrontation between the
two camps. Even as he fell he tried to use the opportunity to persuade both
camps to put an end to the war. After the war, while on his deathbed he gave
deep and meaningful instructions to Yudhishthira on statesmanship and the duties
of a king.
In the Mahābhārata War
Bhishma is the one who witnessed the Mahābhārata
completely from the beginning since the rule of
Shantanu .
In the great battle at Kurukshetra, Bhishma was the supreme
commander of the Kaurava forces for ten days compared to
Drona's five, Karna's two and Salya's one-the last day. He
fought reluctantly on the side of the Kauravas; nevertheless,
he gave it his best effort. At one stage Arjuna's
disinclination to fight him, nearly made Krishna break his
vow not to raise a weapon in the war. Not even Arjuna was
able to defeat Bhishma because in addition to being a
peerless warrior he was blessed with choosing the moment
of his death.
In this war, Bhishma vowed not to kill any of the Pandavas,
as he loved them, being their grandsire. Duryodhan often
confronted Bhishma alleging that he was not actually
fighting for the Kaurava camp as he wouldn't kill any Pandava
but would let them kill Kauravas. But in fact, Bhishma
was the strongest barrier that had protected the Kaurava
camp from impending defeat.
The war was thus locked in a stalemate. As the Pandavas mulled over this
situation, Krishna advised them to visit Bhishma himself and request him to
suggest a way out of this stalemate. Bhishma knew in his heart that the Pandavas
were righteous and chaste, and that he stood as the greatest obstacle in their
path to victory, so when they visited Bhishma, he told them that if faced by a
woman in battle he would cease to fight and not lift weapons against her.
The Pandavas were initially not agreeable to such a ploy, as by bringing a
woman to the battleground they would disgrace themselves, but Krishna suggested
a clever alternative. And thus, on the next day - the tenth day of battle -
Shikhandi
accompanied Arjuna on the latter's chariot and they faced Bhishma who put his
bow and arrows down. He was then felled in battle by a reluctant, ashamed and
tearful Arjuna
pierced by innumerable arrows. As Bhishma fell, his whole body was held above
the ground by the shafts of Arjuna's arrows which protruded from his back, and
through his arms and legs. Seeing Bhishma laid on such a bed of arrows humbled
even the gods who watched from the heavens in reverence, silently blessing the
mighty warrior.
Bhishma was succeeded by
Drona
as the
Commander-in-Chief. Bhishma lay on the 'bed of arrows' till the end of the
battle, bound by his vows and chose to die only after learning that the
Pandavas had won. One of his last acts was to impart his final instructions
on administration and kingcraft to Yudhisthira.
Strategic Formations: the Vyuha
Bhishma was well versed with tactical formations of the
military in those days and only Arjuna could be compared to the
vast knowledge that Bhishma possessed. A few formations
mentioned in the epic
Mahabharata are listed below.
• 	 Krauncha Vyuha : the crane-shaped formation of an army;
forces are distributed to form spanning wing-sides, with a
formidable, penetrating center depicting the crow's head and
break.
•
Padma Vyuha
or the
Chakra Vyuha : a winding,
ever-rotating circular formation; considered impenetrable
during the Mahabharata age by all warriors except Arjuna,
Bhisma, Drona, Krishna, Pradyumna and Abhimanyu. Abhimanyu,
had learnt how to break into the formation (in the womb of
Subhadra) but not how to break out of it and is trapped
inside in the Mahabharata war.
•
Sarpa Vyuha : winding snake formation.
•
Makara Vyuha : Crocodile Formation
•
Sakata Vyuha : Cart Formation
•
Shukar Vyuha : Pig Formation
Death
It is believed that Bhishma died after the age of 350 years.
The relation between Bhishma and Pandavas/Kauravas is described
as that of a grandsire.
Although their descendence was in the following generations
Maharaj HASTIN (founder or the Great HASTINAPUR empire) ->
(many generations) -> Bharat ->
Shantanu
-> Bheeshma, Chitrangada, Vichitraveerya ->
Dhritarashtra
&
Pandu
->
Pandavas
&
Kauravas
but practically, Bhishma and the Pandavas would be 4
generations apart as Bhishma was himself a prince of marriagable
age when his father Shantanu married Satyavati, so Chitrangad
and Vichitravirya were more like sons than brothers to Bhishma.
When both Chitrangad and Vichitravirya died heirless, Maharshi
Ved Vyas
was called upon to revive the lineage. Then
Dhritarashtra, Pandu and Vidura were born. The Pandavas and
Kauravas were the next generation, so although addressed as
grandfather, Bhishma was equivalent to their Great-Grandfather.
When Bhishma died, he was the eldest living ancestor to the
equivalent of 5 generations as the Pandavas themselves were
grandparents. Their only living heir was
Parikshit ,
Arjuna 's grandson, the son of
Abhimanyu
and
Matsya princess Uttara .
Passing away of Bhishma
Bhishma was a great warrior and a wonderful personality. As
the Kauravas were losing the battle, Duryodhana approached
Bhishma one night and accused him of not fighting the battle to
his full strength because of his affection for the Pandavas.
Bhishma, greatly angered, immediately he picked up five golden
arrows and chanted mantras declaring, "tomorrow I will kill the
Pandavas with these five golden arrows". Duryodhana, not having
faith in Bhishma's words, asked Bhishma to give him custody of
the five imbued golden arrows saying that he would keep them
with him and return them the next morning.
Long back when Pandavas were in living in the forest
Duryodhana once came to the forest to flaunt his material
opulence in contrast with the Pandavas who were living in exile
due to his wicked usurption of their kingdom, thus displaying
his venom and hubris. He placed his camp on the opposite side of
a pond where the Pandavas used to stay. Once while he was taking
bath in that pond there the heavenly princes named Gandharvas
came to take bath.
Duryodhana could not tolerate this and he had a fight in
which the Gandharvas captured him. On the request of Yudhisthir,
Arjuna saved Duryodhana and set him free. Duryodhana was ashamed
but being a kshatriya he asked Arjuna what benediction or boon
would Arjuna like. Arjuna replied that he would ask for the
honor gift later when he needed it.
It was during that night that Krishna reminded Arjuna of his
unsatisfied boon and told him to go to Duryodhana and ask for
the five golden arrows. When Arjuna came and asked for the five
golden imbued arrows Duryodhana was shocked, but knowing full
well his honor and duty as a kshatriya declared "I will give you
the five golden arrows but can you please tell me who told you
the five golden imbued arrows existed in the first place?"
Arjuna smilingly replied "Who else other than Shri Krishna could
have advised me". After Duryodhana honorably kept his word and
gave the five golden arrows imbued with a lifetime of austerity
and power by Bhishma, the haughty arrogant prince Duryodhana
broke his customary manner and conceded to himself privately
"All of the rishis say Krishna is the Supreme God, maybe they
are right", being thus shocked and convinced by Arjuna's
knowledge of the very existence of the five golden arrows,
Duryodhana secretly got on his knees and said a quick prayer to
Krishna.
Duryodhana again goes to Bhishma, informing him of all that
happened and requesting another five golden imbued arrows. To
this Bhishma laughed and replies "That is not possible child.
The will of the Lord is Supreme and undeniable. I have already
spent the merits of my lifetime of celibacy and austerity in
those five arrows, a potency strong enough to end all the five
Pandavas. However, Krishna, being the Supreme Lord has foreseen
this, knowing past, present, and future as He alone can, and has
thus arranged for you to voluntarily give up the five golden
arrows, imbued with the power and potency of my lifelong
austerities. I cannot imbue another five arrows, having spent
all of the merits of my austerities. However, tomorrow I shall
fight like a lion, and this time either I will kill Arjuna or I
will make Lord Krishna break His promise of not picking up any
weapons during the war". On the next day there is an intense
battle between Bhishma and Arjuna. Although Arjuna was very
powerful, but he was no match for Bhishma. Bhishma soon shot
arrows which cut Arjuna's armour and then also his Gandiva bow.
Arjuna was helpless before the wrath of the grandsire.
As Bhishma was about to kill Arjuna with his arrows Lord
Krishna could not tolerate his devotees plight and He
immediately threw down the chariot reins and jumped off the
chariot onto the battlefield, lifted a chariot wheel and charged
Bhishma, determined to send Bhishma to Death's abode. Arjuna
tried to stop Lord Krishna but the Lord says that in order to
protect my devotee I must break my own promise. Eventually
however, Arjuna convinces Krishna to return to the chariot and
put down the wheel, promising to redouble his determination in
the fight, all the while Bhishma stood with folded palms and
tears in his eyes, awed by the beauty of the wrath of the Lord
and the intense love that God bears for his friends, so great
that He is willing to endure the censorship of ignorant foolish
men. Later the Lord tells Arjuna how he may bring down the old
grandsire, through the help of Sikhandhi the woman-man, using
Sikhandi as a shield, thus shot merciless arrows at Bhishma
piercing his entire body, thus finally did Bhishma give up the
fight, focusing his life force and breath, sealing the wounds,
and waiting for the auspicious moment to give up his body.
Source(s): Srimad Bhagavatam 1st Canto Chapter 9, slokas 1 -
49 by His Divine Grace AC Bhaktivedanta Swami Prabhupada
UKT: End of Wikipedia .
Go back
Bhishma-note-b
Contents of this page
Kukutasana
- Cockerel pose
Excerpt from:
http://yogaposesasanas.suite101.com/article.cfm/kukkutasana_resists_arthritis_and_rheumatism
100602
Kukkutasana Resists Arthritis and Rheumatism
The Rooster Pose of Yoga Nourishes Your Wrists, Elbows and Shoulders
Share Article
|
Dec 27, 2009
Ajeenkya Birodkar
This pose also improves your poise and posture with your
chest thrust out and head held erect. Your abdominal
organs too are nourished and secrete better.
In the Rooster Pose, or the Kukkutasana (also known as the Cockerel
Pose), you rest your entire body weight on your wrists. This pose looks
quite similar to the Crane Pose (Bakasana) and the Crow Pose (Kakasana),
but there are finer differences. The pressure points in each of these
poses are different. In the other two poses the pressure points are your
armpits in Bakasana and your elbows in Kakasana, while in the
Kukkutasana it is your wrists which are the pressure point. This pose
builds up your body’s resistance against arthritis, rheumatism and other
orthopedic ailments if you do this pose from a young age.
How to do the Kukkutasana - Rooster Pose
You begin by sitting on a carpet with your legs placed straight from
your hip. Your back is ramrod straight. You place your arms by your
sides and breathe normally. Lift your right foot and place it on your
left thigh and place your left foot on your right thigh. Use your hands
to do this. You shall need some practice to enable you to do this step.
Those blessed with a supple body and are used to doing the Lotus Pose (Padmasana)
will be able to do this step with ease. This is also the first step in
the Lotus Pose.
You may now proceed to the next step by lifting your right arm and
maneuvering it into the space between the thigh and calf muscle of your
right leg. After you insert your palm through this gap, place it on the
floor. Make this step easier by using your other hand to lift your legs
a bit from your knees. This increases the gap between your thighs and
calves. Do likewise using your left arm and insert your left palm
through your left leg. Your arms are now held fast by the pincer of your
thighs and calf muscles.
After placing your palms flat on the mat spread them to reveal the
wedges between them and give yourself as broad a base as possible. Now
stiffen your shoulders and arms and use all the power you have to heave
your hip aloft along with your folded legs. As a learner you might not
be able to lift yourself by more than a few centimeters. After you
master this exercise the maximum height you would lift your legs to
would be around five to six inches.
Hold to this position despite the tremendous strain, on your wrists,
shoulders, spine, thighs and calf muscles. Now you may come out of the
Kukkutasana.
Read more at Suite101:
Kukkutasana Resists Arthritis and Rheumatism: The Rooster Pose of Yoga
Nourishes Your Wrists, Elbows and Shoulders
http://yogaposesasanas.suite101.com/article.cfm/kukkutasana_resists_arthritis_and_rheumatism#ixzz0pfIvBJZ0
In the Rooster Pose, or the Kukkutasana (also known as the Cockerel
Pose), you rest your entire body weight on your wrists. This pose looks
quite similar to the Crane Pose (Bakasana) and the Crow Pose (Kakasana),
but there are finer differences. The pressure points in each of these
poses are different. In the other two poses the pressure points are your
armpits in Bakasana and your elbows in Kakasana, while in the
Kukkutasana it is your wrists which are the pressure point. This pose
builds up your body’s resistance against arthritis, rheumatism and other
orthopedic ailments if you do this pose from a young age. Go back
kukutasana-note-b
Contents of this page
Kundalini
Skt:
कुण्डलिनी
-
kuṇḍalinī
Bur:
Thai:
กุณฺฑลินี
From Wikipedia:
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kundalini
110918
Kundalini
(Skt:
कुण्डलिनी
-
kuṇḍalinī , Bur:  , Thai:
กุณฺฑลินี ) literally means
coiled .
In
yoga , a
"corporeal energy" [1]
- an unconscious, instinctive or
libidinal
force
or
Shakti , lies
coiled at the base of the spine. [2] [3] [4]
It is envisioned either as a goddess or else as a sleeping serpent, hence a
number of English renderings of the term such as 'serpent power'. The kundalini
resides in the
sacrum
bone in three and a half coils and has been described as a residual
power of pure desire. [5]
Description
Kundalini is described as a sleeping, dormant potential force in the human
organism. [6]
It is one of the components of an esoteric description of man's 'subtle body',
which consists of
nadis
(energy channels),
chakras
(psychic centres),
prana
(subtle
energy), and
bindu
(drops of essence).
Kundalini is described
as being coiled up at the base of the spine, usually within
muladhara
chakra . The
image given
is that of a serpent coiled three and a half times around a smokey grey lingam.
Each coil is said
to represent one of the three
gunas , with the half coil signifying transcendence.
Through meditation, and various esoteric practices, such as
kundalini yoga ,
laya-yoga , [7]
and kriya yoga, the kundalini is awakened, and can rise up through the central
nadi , called
sushumna , that rises up inside or alongside the spine. The progress of
kundalini through the different
chakras
leads
to different levels of awakening and mystical experience, until the kundalini
finally reaches the top of the head,
Sahasrara
chakra, producing an extremely profound mystical experience.
A number of descriptions exist that attempt to describe exactly what the
kundalini experience is.
Sri Ramana Maharshi
maintained that the kundalini energy is nothing but the
natural energy of the Self, where Self is the universal consciousness ( Paramatma )
present in every being, and that the individual mind of thoughts cloaks this
natural energy from unadulterated expression.
Advaita
teaches that
Self-realization ,
enlightenment , God-consciousness,
nirvana
and
kundalini awakening are all the same thing, and self-inquiry meditation is
considered a very natural and simple means of reaching this goal. [8]
Swami Vivekananda
described kundalini briefly in London during his lectures
on
Raja Yoga
as follows: [
"According to the
Yogis , there
are two nerve currents in the spinal column, called Pingalâ and Idâ, and a
hollow canal called
Sushumnâ
running through the spinal cord. At the lower end of the hollow
canal is what the Yogis call the "Lotus of the Kundalini". They describe it
as triangular in form in which, in the symbolical language of the Yogis,
there is a power called the Kundalini, coiled up. When that Kundalini
awakes, it tries to force a passage through this hollow canal, and as it
rises step by step, as it were, layer after layer of the mind becomes open
and all the different visions and wonderful powers come to the Yogi. When it
reaches the brain, the Yogi is perfectly detached from the body and mind;
the soul finds itself free. We know that the spinal cord is composed in a
peculiar manner. If we take the figure eight horizontally (∞) there are two
parts which are connected in the middle. Suppose you add eight after eight,
piled one on top of the other, that will represent the spinal cord. The left
is the Ida, the right Pingala, and that hollow canal which runs through the
centre of the spinal cord is the Sushumna. Where the spinal cord ends in
some of the
lumbar vertebrae , a fine fibre issues downwards, and the canal runs up
even within that fibre, only much finer. The canal is closed at the lower
end, which is situated near what is called the sacral plexus, which,
according to modern physiology, is triangular in form. The different
plexuses that have their centres in the spinal canal can very well stand for
the different "lotuses" of the Yogi. "
UKT: More in the Wikipedia article.
Go back
Kundalini-note-b
Contents of this page
Kuntibhoja
From Wikipedia:
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kunti-Bhoja
100423
Kunti-Bhoja
(Kuntibhoja) was the foster-father of
Kunti
the mother
of
Pandavas, as per the epic
Mahābhārata. He was the ruler of the
Kunti
Kingdom . The name Kunti denotes the kingdom. Pandavas's mother's maiden name
was
Pritha . She was one of the sisters of Vasudeva, a
Yadava
chief, who was also the father of
Krishna . Pritha was later given to Kuntibhoja since he was devoid of
children. Kuntibhoja raised Pritha as his own daughter. Later she was married to
Pandu
the king of
Kuru
Kingdom , where she was addressed by the Kauravas as
Kunti . Kuntibhoja
took part in the
Kurukshetra War, siding with the
Pandavas.
UKT: End of Wikipedia article.
Go back
Kuntibhoja-note-b
Contents of this page
Kuru kingdom
From Wikipedia:
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kuru-kingdom   100425
Kuru
(कुरु) was the name of an Indo-Aryan
kshatriya
tribe
[1]
and their kingdom in the
Vedic period
of India, and later a
republican
Mahajanapada
state. Their kingdom was located in the area of modern
Haryana
and
Delhi . They
formed the first political center of the Indo-Aryans after the
Rigvedic
period, and after their emergence from the Punjab,
and it was there that the codification and redaction of
the Vedic texts began. Archaeologically, they most likely
correspond to the
black and red ware
culture of the
12th to
9th centuries BC. At this time,
iron
first appears
in western India. Iron is still absent from the Rigvedic hymns, and makes its
first appearance as "black metal" ( śyāma ayas ) in the
Atharvaveda .
The
Atharvaveda
(XX.127) refers to
Parikshit
as the king of the Kurus. [2]
His son Janamejaya figures in
Satapatha Brahmana
as well as in the
Aitareya Brahmana . The Kurus in association with the Panchalas
are frequently mentioned in the later Vedic literature.
Geographical location of Kuru
In the epic
times (8th-6th centuries BC), the region between the triangle of Thaneshwar,
Hissar and Hastinapur was distinguished by three different names: (1)
Kuru-Jangala equal to Rohtak, Hansi, Hissar; (2) Kuru-rashtra proper between the Ganges and
Yamuna with its
capital at Hastinapura and (3) the Kuru-kshetra comprising Thaneshwar, Kaithal
and Karnal.
The whole kingdom roughly corresponded to modern Thanesar, Delhi and the
greater part of Upper Gangetic Doab.
UKT insert: A
Doab
(Persian,
Urdu:
dō , "two" +
āb , "water" or "river") is a term used
in India and
Pakistan
for a "tongue" or tract of land lying between two confluent rivers. ... Doab
figures prominently in history and myths of
Vedic period; the epic
Mahabharata, for example, is set in the
Doab , around the city of
Hastinapur. -
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Doab
100425
The rivers Aruna, Ashumati, Hiranvati, Apaya, Kausiki,
Sarasvati
and
Drishadvati or Rakshi washed the lands of Kurus.
UKT: The Sarasvati river mentioned above is probably the present day
river, a small tributary of the Sindu - not the mighty river of the Rig
Veda. See insert below. - UKT 100425
"The Sarasvati River is one of the chief Rigvedic rivers mentioned
in ancient Hindu texts. The
Nadistuti
hymn in the Rigveda (10.75) mentions the Sarasvati between the Yamuna in
the east and the
Sutlej
in
the west, and later Vedic texts like Tandya and Jaiminiya Brahmanas as well
as the Mahabharata mention that the Sarasvati dried up in a desert." -
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Thar_Desert
100425
Kurus of Buddha's times
The Kuru kingdom figures in the list of the sixteen
great kingdoms, the
Mahajanapadas
of the early Buddhist
Anguttara Nikaya . At the time of
Buddha , the Kuru realm was only three hundred leagues in
extent. Legendary Buddhist stories - the
Jatakas attest that the capital of the Kurus was
Indraprastha
(Indapatta) near modern Delhi. It extended for
seven leagues. The other city in the realm was Hatthinipura i.e.
Hastinapura . The reigning king
Dhananjaya
is stated as prince from the race of
Yudhishtra . But he was merely a titular chieftain
(king consul). During Buddha's time, Ratthapala, son of
the Kuru ruler had embraced Buddhism.
The Buddha taught important and profound discourses in the Kurus
such as the "Mahāsatipaṭṭhāna Sutta",
the Great Discourse on the Foundation of Mindfulness,
"Mahānidāna Sutta", The Great Discourse
on Causation, and "Āneñjasappāya Sutta",
the Way to the Imperturbable. Other discourses, as recorded
in the Pali Canon, taught by the Buddha in the Kurus are
Māgaṇḍiya Sutta,
Raṭṭhapāla Sutta, Sammasa Sutta, Dutiya Ariyāvāsa Sutta.
The Kurus of the
Buddhist period did not occupy the same position as they did
in the Vedic period but they continued to enjoy their ancient
reputation for deep wisdom and sound health. The Kurus had
matrimonial relations with
Yadavas , the
Bhojas
and the Panchalas.
Though a well known
monarchical people in earlier period, the Kurus are known to
have switched to
republic form of government during sixth/fifth century BCE.
Fourth century BCE
Kautiliya 's
Arthashastra
also attests the Kurus as following the
Rajashabdopajivin
(king consul) constitution (11/1/1-4).
Kurus are mentioned by [the great phonetician usually
referred to as grammarian]
Pāṇini ( Astadhyayi
4.1.168-75) as one of the fifteen powerful
Kshatriya
Janapadas
of his times, with
Hastinapura
as its
capital.
Pāṇini refers to the house-holders' way of life as against
ascetic way obtaining amongst the Kurus. Kuru Dharma
UKT: "Dharma" or {Dam~ma.} mentioned here is not "Buddha's teachings" the
usual meaning given in Myanmar. It means "what is right and what is proper":
{ta.ra: mhya.ta.mhu. rhi. hkring:}. "Improper" would be such as a soldier
being set upon by more than one opponent with with superior weapons. -
100425
In Buddhism, "Kuru Dharma" specifically refers to the
Five
Precepts
of moral restraints which every Buddhist must take along with the
Triple Gem. Buddhists trace the origins of the 5 precepts in the "Kuru
Dhamma
Jataka ".
Kurus have frequently been coupled with the Panchalas in later Vedic and
Puranic literature. The Kurus were followers of
Brahmanical way of life, and the early kingdom in all probability is the
location of the codification of the
Vedas and the
establishment of major schools of
Vedic priesthood . They insisted on the purity of family life and cultivation
of proper domestic relations and virtues, a way of life and
philosophy
that are reflected in the basic doctrine of
Bhagvadgita
expounded at
Kurukshetra . In the land of Kurus-Panchalas, the
speech
is said to
have its particular home. The mode of sacrifice among the Kuru-Panchalas is
proclaimed to be the best. The Kuru Panchala kings are said to have performed
Rajasuya
sacrifice. There are numerous references to the
Brahmanas
of Kuru-Panchala country. Kurus were noted for deep wisdom and
purity of life.
Speculation on origin:
Kuru-Puru-Bharata connection
Epic
traditions reveal that the kings of Kuru belonged to the
Puru –
Bharata
family.
The
Kuru-Puru connection
is suggested by Rigveda
(10.33.4) which attests Kuru-Sravana as the descendant
of famous Puru king Trasadasyu. (4.38.1, 7.19.3).
A connection of the
Bharatas
with
Kurukshetra
is attested by Rigveda 3.23,
Shatapatha Brahmana
13.5.4,
Aitareya Brahmana
8.23 as well as the
Mahabharata
7.66.8. The former Purus, Bharatas and several other minor
clans
were later
fused together and amalgamated into the powerful Kurus who expanded east from
the Punjab.
Mahabharata refers to kings
Puru-ravas Aila, Ayu, Yayati Nahushya,
Puru-Bharata Dauhshanti Saudyumni, Ajamidha, Riksha, Samavarana, Kuru,
Uchchaihsravas Kaupayeya, Prati sutvana, Bahlika Pratipeya, Santnu and
Dhritarashtra
in the ancestral line of
Parikshit ,
the grandson of Pandava
Arjuna .
Speculations on origin of Kuru kingdom and Kurus
UKT: Wikipedia editiors have questioned many of the statements
below with "citation needed", "clarification
needed", "who?", "where", etc. The
reader should read the article again online which is bound
to be another updated later. I have reformat the text below
for better reading. - 100425
Kuru dynesty kings were called med-bhuti or med kshatriyas
and Kuru forces were med or mair rajputs from ancient time
in India. According to Bhagvata and Vishnu Puran, Medes or
Mair Kshatriyas are one of the oldest warriors . Mair Kshatriyas
are originally from Lord Brahama dynesty King Ajmenid
अजमीढ़. Badmer, Ajmer,
Jesalmer are some of ancient cities of old Aryans Medes, mer
or mair. After Golden age the Mahabharat fall of the Mairs
Empire a power vacuum shortly existed in the region. (In the
Sanskrit Mahabharat The Word MAIRBHUTI
मैढ़-भूति,
Ajmenid-nandan अजमीढ़-नंदन,
KURU-KULAM कुरु कुल वंशी
used for Rajas so many times), Kurukshetra War against
the Kuruavas which is detailed in the Hindu epic, the Mahabharata.
In this war, the Kshatriyas assumed the role of warriors
for either side of the battle, after the war of Mahabharat Pandavs had gone for
Swargarohan (Battle of heven) with all armies. Dispersal and dissolving of Mairs
resulted medes had gone for movement to ancient Median Empires of Indian mair
kshatriyas in Iran. The Medes are credited with the foundation of the first
Iranian empire, the largest of its day until Cyrus (KURUS)कुरु the Great
established a unified Iranian empire of the Medes (Indian origin) and Persians,
often referred to as the Achaemenid Empire, ( KING Ajmenid of India great
grandfather of all Medes ). by defeating his grandfather and overlord, Astyages
the Raja of Media. In present time med kshatriyas of India claims that they are
from KURU dynasty and in Iran and rest of the world
Kurdish
community also claim to related with ancient meds. [UKT ¶]
Kurdish are from Indo-European language origin , they can be from ancient Kurukshetra .
Mahabharata and the
Puranas
attest the Kurus as the most important branch of the Ailas i.e.
descendants of king Puru-ravas Aila.
The princes of Aila lineage are also designated as Karddameyas. This designation connects the
Ailas
to river
Karddama, located in
Persia (Arthashastra, p 76, n.5). Hence the home of the
Karddameyas
or the
Aila princes
(Kurus) is often identified with
Bahlika
or
Balkh
( Bactria ) in
Iran and not in
India proper ( Studies in Antiquities , 234).
Puru-ravas Aila , first king in the line of ancestors of the Kurus
above, is mentioned in
Ramayana
stories as the son of a ruler who came, in some remote antiquity, from Bahli (Balkh)
in
Central Asia to Mid India (Ramayana, VII,103.21-22).
Mahabharata locates the birth place of king
Puru-ravas Aila
on a hill
near the source of a river called Ganga (3.90.22-25).
This ancient Ganga is said to be different from the main Ganga and finds
reference in ancient Sanskrit
texts like
Raghuvamsa , where it is found located in the neighborhood of the
Kambojas
of
Pamirs/ Badakshan .
This river and river Sita ( Yarkand )
are said to be originating from
Anavtapat Sarovar
(in Pamirs or in
Karakoram
Jot, somewhere)
[1]
Papancha-sudanai
also refers to the Kurus, as
colonists
from trans-
Himalayan
region known as
Uttarakuru
(Dr B. C. Law,
Ancient Indian Mid-Indian
Kshatriya Tribes , p 16). .
The Kurus are associated with the Mahavrishas (See: Vedic
Index, II, 279n) and the Bahlikas according to Mahabharata
(II.63.2-7).
This association of the Kuru, Mahavrishas and the Bahlikas
powerfully supports the northern origin of the Kurus.
Shatapatha Brahmana
also attests one king called
Bahlika
Pratipiya
whom it designates as Koravya i.e. one from Kuru
lineage .
We also know that
Bahlika Pratipiya
is an important
epic
king
of the Kurus. He was from the Puru-rava Aila lineage and hence from the line of
Kurus of Kurukshetra.
The word
Bahlika
in the name of Kuru king
Bahlika Pratipiya
is
his
personal designation
and points to northern (Bahlika or Bactria)
origin of the Kurus of
Middle country , in accordance with ancient naming
conventions.
A section of the Kurus, known as
Uttarakurus , is stated to be living
beyond the Himalayan region in the days of Mahabharata and Aitreya Brahmana as
we learn from Aitareya Brahmana verse (VIII.14).
It is also to be noted that the
Himalaya
of the ancient Indian traditions extended from the east ocean
to the west ocean, and even today is not separated from it (See:
Kumarasambhavam
by Kalidasa).
Mahabharata also attests that the ancestors of the Kauravas and Pandavas
originally migrated from
Uttarakuru
(MBH 1/187/28).
Buddhaghosa
also records a tradition which states that,
when Vedic king Mandhata returned to
Jambudvipa
from his sojourn in the four
Mahadipas , there were, in his retinue, a
large number of the people of
Uttarakuru . They all settled down in
Jambudípa, and their settlement became known as Kururattha (Kuru Rashtra).
Majjhima
Commentary (Vol I, p 184) also attests that the people of Kururatha
had originally belonged to the
Uttarakuru .
The above several references would indicate that the ancestors of the Kurus
of
Middle India
had migrated from Bahlika/Uttarakuru which was a region
stated to be to the north of Himalaya /Hindukush.
But Przyluski
has also shown that Bahlika or Balkh was the original home the
Madra
peoples
known as the
Uttaramadras . This shows that
Uttarakuru , the original home of the Kurus, was not precisely located in
Bahlika, but probably in some nearby region, north of Bahlika in Central
Asia, possibly bordering with it. We know that on the east side of Bahlika
i.e. the
Uttaramadra , was located the
Parama-Kamboja
(say
Uttara-Kambojas ) branch of the
Kambojas .
Thus it appears likely that the Uttarakurus as immediate
neighbors to the Uttaramadras/Bahlikas were located to
north-east of Uttaramadras and to north of Parama-Kambojas
(Badakshan/Pamir).
By the way , if Bahlika is to be
insisted upon to be same as Uttarakuru, , then one can assume
that the Madras and Kurus in the remote antiquity were one
people.
Later, the Kurus of the Middle country became known as
Kuru
proper or the
Dakshina Kuru
(MBH I, 109-10).
None of the above sources claim knowledge or information
from any of the four Vedas, nor do they cite references.
Therefore they must understood in a presumptive manner rather
than as facts.
Puranic View of Kuru Origin
The
Puranas
trace the lineage of the
Pauravas , the line
of kings who are related to the Kuru-Panchalas, to king
Puru-rava Aila , who is stated to be king of
Pratishthana .(This
Pratishthana is near modern
Allahabad and is not to be confused with the western Indian
one, now called
Paithan ). It is stated that Kuru was the son of king
Samvarna and Tapti. He had given his name to
Kurukshetra . At Kurukshetra, he had performed
tapasya
(penance) and pleased
Indra.
Kuru's descendants became known as Kauravas (Brahmanda Purana
III.68.21).
This Puranic view, in view of the evidence presented before,
is not considered reliable. UKT: End of Wikipedia article.
Go back
Kuru-kingdom-note-b
Contents of this page
Kuruksetra
(place)
From Wikipedia:
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kurukshetra
100426
Kurukshetra
(Hindi:
कुरुक्षेत्र ) is a district in
Haryana
state
of India. It is a
holy place and is also known as
Dharmakshetra
(" Holy City ").
According to the Puranas, Kurukshetra is named after King Kuru, the ancestor of
Kauravas and Pandavas, as depicted in epic
Mahabharata. The importance of the place is attributed to the fact that the
Kurukshetra War
of the
Mahabharata was fought on this land and the
Bhagavad Gita
was preached on this land during the war when Lord Krishna
found Arjuna in a terrible dilemma. [1]
Rashtrakavi
Ramdhari Singh 'Dinkar'
has written an
epic poem
by the title of
Kurukshetra . It is a narrative poem based
on the
Santi Parva
of the
Mahabharata. [2]
It was written at a time when the memories of the
Second World War were fresh on the mind of the poet. [2]
Thanesar
or
Sthaneswar
is a historical town located adjacent to what is now the newly created
Kurukshetra city. Thanesar derives its name from the word "Sthaneshwar", which
means "Deity of the Place". The Sthaneshwar Mahadev Temple, whose presiding
deity is Lord Shiva, is believed to be the oldest temple in the vicinity. Local
hearsay identifies the legendary "Kurukshetra" with a nearby obscure hamlet, and
with the active abetment of the state government. It is presently experiencing a
tourist boom. A few kilometeres from Kurukshetra is the village known as
" Amin ",
where there are remnants of a fort which is said to be
Abhimanyu 's
fort.
In some ancient Hindu texts, the boundaries of Kurukshetra correspond roughly
to the state of Haryana. Thus according to the
Taittiriya Aranyaka
5.1.1., the Kurukshetra region is south of Turghna (Srughna/Sugh
in
Sirhind , Punjab), north of Khandava (Delhi and
Mewat
region),
east of Maru (=desert) and west of Parin. [3]
History
It is written in
Puranas that
Kurukshetra is named after the King
Kuru
of
Bharata
Dynasty, ancestor of Pandavas and Kauravas.
The
Vamana Purana
tells how King Kuru came to settle on this land. He chose this
land at the banks of
Sarasvati River
for embedding spirituality with 8 virtues: austerity ( tapas ),
truth ( satya ),
forgiveness (kshama), kindness ( daya ),
purity ( sucha ),
charity ( dana ),
yagya
and
brahmacharya . Lord
Vishnu
was
impressed with the act of King Kuru and blessed him. God gave him two boons, one
that this land forever will be known as a Holy Land after his name as
Kurukshetra (the land of Kuru) and the other that anyone dying on this land will
be going to heaven. The land of Kurukshetra was separated between two rivers —
the Sarasvati and the Drishadvati.
This land has been known as Uttravedi, Brahmavedi, Dharamkshetra and
Kurukshetra at different periods. When King Kuru came on this land it was called
Uttarvedi. Over the period this land has been ruled by many empires.
Bharata
Dynasty came and settled on this land.
Later the Battle of
Mahabharata was fought on this land, during which Lord
Krishna
preached
Bhagavad Gita
to
Arjuna .
It reached the zenith of its progress during the reign of King
Harsha , during
which Chinese
scholar
Hieun Tsang
visited this land at
Thanesar .
By the archaeological grounds it has been proved that
Ashoka the Great made Kurukshetra a centre of learning for people from all
over the world.
Mughals
also ruled this land. Sufi saint Sheikh Chehli's tomb on this land
is an evidence of this fact.
UKT: More in the original Wikipedia article.
Go back
Kurukshetra-note-b
Contents of this page
Kurukshetra War
कुरुक्षेत्र युद्ध
From Wikipedia:
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kurukshetra_War
100421
The
Kurukshetra War
(कुरुक्षेत्र युद्ध)
is the war between the
Kauravas and
Pandavas, which forms an essential component of the Hindu epic
Mahābhārata . According to
Mahābhārata , a dynastic struggle
between sibling clans of Kauravas and the Pandavas for the throne of
Hastinapura
resulted in a battle in which a number of ancient kingdoms
participated as allies of the rival clans. The location of the battle was
Kurukshetra
in the modern state of Haryana in India.
Mahābhārata
states that the war lasted eighteen days during which vast
armies from all over the Indian Subcontinent fought alongside the two rivals.
Despite only referring to these eighteen days, the war narrative forms more than
a quarter of the book, suggesting its relative importance within the epic, which
overall spans decades of the warring families.
The narrative describes individual battles of various heroes of both sides,
battle-field deaths of some of the prominent heroes, military formations
employed on each day by both armies, war diplomacies, meetings and discussions
among the heroes and commanders before commencement of war on each day and the
weapons used. The chapters ( parvas ) dealing with the war (from chapter
six to ten) are considered amongst the oldest in the entire
Mahābhārata .
Bhagavad Gita , a sacred text of Vedic philosophy, which recounts the
conversation between the Pandava
Arjuna
and
Krishna
arising out of Arjuna's reluctance to fight members of his own family, is
considered a later addition to
Mahābhārata .
The Kurukshetra War is believed to date variously from 5561 BC to 800 BC [UKT:
at least 300 years before the birth of the Gaudhama Buddha - need to know what
the Buddhist sources said about the war.], based on the astronomical and
literary information from
Mahābhārata . The history of the Kurukshetra War
is also traced to the
Battle of the Ten Kings
mentioned in
Rigveda .
[2]
Background
Mahābhārata , one of the most important
Hindu epics, is an account of the life and deeds of
several generations of a ruling dynasty called the
Kuru
clan. Central to the epic is an account of a
great war that took place between two sibling families
belonging to this clan. Kurukshetra (literally
"field of the Kurus"), was the battleground on
which this war, known as the Kurukshetra War, was fought.
Kurukshetra was also known as "Dharmakshetra"
(the "field of
Dharma "), or field of righteousness. Mahābhārata
tells that this site was chosen for the war because a sin
committed on this land was forgiven on account of the
sanctity of this land.
The two sides to the war were the families of Pandavas
and the Kauravas. The dispute between the Kauravas and
the Pandavas arose from a game of dice, which the Kauravas
won by deceit, forcing their Pandava cousins to go into exile
for thirteen years. The dispute escalated into a full scale war when
Duryodhana , the eldest of the Kauravas, driven by jealousy,
refused to restore the Pandavas their throne after the exile.
Prior to the war, the Pandavas, advised by Krishna,
tried to find a diplomatic and peaceful solution to the conflict.
Balarama ,
Krishna's older brother, advised the Pandavas to send an emissary to get the
support of the elders of the family like
Bhishma ,
Dhritarashtra ,
Drona ,
Karna ,
and even
Shakuni ,
with the message "Let us avoid armed conflict as much as possible. Only that
which is accrued in peace is worthwhile. Out of war, nothing but wrong can
issue". [3]
While the emissary was in the Kaurava court, the Pandavas continued with war
preparations. They sent messages requesting assistance to a number of
neighbouring kingdoms. Their ambassador of peace was insulted and turned away by
Duryodhana, who was intent on war, defying the counsel of elders like Bhishma.
After several failed attempts on peace, war seemed inevitable.
Krishna's peace mission
As a last attempt at peace,
Krishna
traveled to Hastinapur to persuade the Kauravas to embark upon a peaceful path
with him. At Hastinapur, Krishna took his meals and stayed at the house of the
minister,
Vidura
[UKT: This personage should be compared to one with the same name in Buddhist
birth stories.], a religious man and a devotee of Krishna.
Duryodhana
was insulted that Krishna had turned down his invitation to dine with him and
stay in his royal palace. Determined to stop the peace mission, Duryodhana
plotted to arrest Krishna.
At the formal presentation of the peace proposal by Krishna at the court of
Hastinapur, Krishna's peace proposals were ignored, and Duryodhana publicly
ordered his soldiers to arrest Krishna. Krishna laughed and displayed his divine
form, radiating intense light. Furious at the insult inflicted upon Him, Lord
Krishna cursed Duryodhana that his downfall was certain and He, as Lord
Narayana's Divine Form, will see to it that his entire clan is destroyed from
the Universe much to the shock of Dhirtharastra who tried to pacify the Lord.
But Sri Krishna would have none of it. The beautiful divine form of the Lord
could be perceived only by those pure in heart,
Bhishma ,
Drona , and
Vidura . The
peace mission rejected by Duryodhana, Krishna returned to Upaplavya to inform
the Pandavas that the only course left to uphold the principles of virtue and
righteousness was inevitable - war.
War preparations
Krishna had one of the largest armies and was Himself a great warrior.
Duryodhana
and
Arjuna
thus
both went to Krishna at
Dwarka
to ask
for His help. This is a famous part of the story, especially dear to Krishna
devotees. Duryodhana arrived first, and found Krishna asleep. Being arrogant and
viewing himself as equal to Krishna, Duryodhana chose a seat at Krishna's head
and waited for Him to rouse. Arjuna arrived later, and being a humble devotee of
Krishna, chose to sit and wait at Krishna's feet. When Krishna woke up, He saw
Arjuna first and gave him the first right to make his request. Krishna told
Arjuna and Duryodhana that He would give His mighty Narayani sena, 'opulent,
Lordly army' to one side, and Himself unarmed to the other. Since Arjuna was
given the first opportunity to choose, Duryodhana was worried that Arjuna would
choose the mighty army of Krishna. When given the choice of either Krishna's
army or Krishna Himself on their side, Arjuna on behalf of the Pandavas chose
Krishna, unarmed on His own, relieving Duryodhana, who thought Arjuna to be the
greatest fool. Later Arjuna requested Krishna to be his charioteer, and Krishna,
being an intimate friend of Arjuna, agreed wholeheartedly, and hence received
the name Paarthasaarthy, or 'charioteer of the son of Prithaa'. Both Duryodhana
and Arjuna returned satisfied.
While camping at a place called Upaplavya, in the territory of
Virata , the
Pandavas gathered their armies. Contingents arrived from all parts of the
country and soon the Pandavas had a large force of seven divisions. The Kauravas
managed to raise an even larger army of eleven divisions. Many
kingdoms of ancient India
such as
Dwaraka ,
Kasi ,
Kekaya ,
Magadha ,
Matsya ,
Chedi ,
Pandya
and the
Yadus
of
Mathura
were allied with the
Pandavas ;
while the allies of the
Kauravas
comprised the kings of Pragjyotisha,
Anga ,
Kekaya ,
Sindhudesa, Mahishmati,
Avanti
in
Madhyadesa,
Madras ,
Gandharas ,
Bahlikas ,
Kambojas
(with the
Yavanas ,
Sakas
and
Tusharas ) and many others. At this point Lord Krishna advises Arjuna to pray
to Goddess
Durga
the Goddess of Warriors and Warfare, and seeks Her Divine blessings. Pleased
with Arjuna's devotion to Her the Goddess grants him that She will be at the
side of Pandavas and will ensure that not single weapon can harm them. This is
considered a decisive point leading to the war.
An ancient measure of man power, Akshohini is used to enumerate the armies on
both sides. One Akshohini consists of 21,870 chariots, 21,870 elephants, 65,610
horses and 109,350 foot soldiers.
Pandava army
Seeing that there was now no hope for peace,
Yudhisthira , the eldest of the Pandavas, asked his brothers to organize
their army. The Pandavas accumulated seven
Akshauhini
army with the help of their allies. Each of
these Akshohinis or divisions were led by
Drupada ,
Virata ,
Dhristadyumna ,
Shikhandi ,
Satyaki ,
Chekitana
and
Bhima . After
consulting his commanders, the Pandavas appointed
Dhristadyumna
as the supreme commander of the Pandava army.
Mahābhārata
says that kingdoms from all over ancient India supplied troops or provided
logistic support on the Pandava side. Some of these were:
Kekaya ,
Pandya ,
Cholas ,
Keralas ,
Magadha , and many more.
Kaurava army
The Kaurava army was consisted of eleven
Akshauhinis
or divisions. Duryodhana requested
Bhishma
to
command the
Kaurava
army. Bhishma accepted on the condition that, while he would fight
the battle sincerely, he would not harm the five Pandava brothers. In addition,
Bheeshma said that Karna would not fight under him as long as he is in the
battlefied. It is believed by many that Bhishma pushed Karna into taking this
decision due to his affection towards the Pandavas - the Kauravas would be
overwhelmingly powerful if both he and Karna appeared in battle simultaneously.
However the excuse he used to prevent their simultaneous fighting was that his
guru ( Parshurama )
was insulted by
Karna .
But the real fact was that Bhisma knew that Karna was a Kaunteya(Son of Kunti)
from the day he met him in Ranakshetra when Karna offered Arjuna to fight
against him. Regardless, Duryodhana agreed to Bhishma's conditions and made him
the supreme commander of the Kaurava army, while Karna was debarred from
fighting. . Apart from the one hundred Kaurava brothers, headed by Duryodhana
himself and his brother
Dushasana ,
the second eldest son of
Dhritarashtra , the Kauravas were assisted on the battlefield by
Drona
and his son
Ashwathama , the Kaurava's brother-in-law
Jayadratha ,
the
brahmin
Kripa ,
Kritavarma ,
Shalya ,
Sudakshina, Bhurisravas, Bahlika,
Shakuni , and
many more who were bound by their loyalty towards either
Hastinapura
or Dhritarashtra.
Neutral parties
The kingdom of
Vidarbha , with its King Rukmi, and
Balarama
were the only neutrals in this war.
[4]
Army divisions and weaponry
Each army consisted of several divisions; the Kauravas
had 11 while the Pandavas controlled 7. A division
( akshauhini )
includes 21,870
chariots
and chariot-riders, 21,870
elephants
and riders, 65,610
horses and riders ,
and 109,350 foot-soldiers (in a ratio of 1:1:3:5). The combined number of
warriors and soldiers in both armies was approximately 3.94 million.
[5]
Each
Akshohini
was under a commander or a general, apart from the
Commander in chief or the generalissimo who was the head of the entire army.
During the Kurukshetra War, the weapons used included: the bow
and arrows, the
weapon of choice for Arjuna, Bhishma, Drona, Karna and
Abhimanyu ;
the
mace ,
chosen by Bhima and Duryodhana, the
spear
and the
dagger
or
sword .
If the text is taken as historically accurate, this war
was the bloodiest in history as most of the warriors and
soldiers perished during a period of only eighteen days.
Arjuna, in a fit of extreme anger over the death of his son
Abhimanyu , alone killed one
akshauhini
of Kaurava soldiers in a single day. The war left an extremely large number of
widows and orphans and led to an economic depression and beginning of
Kali Yuga .
Military formations
At various times during battle, the supreme commander of either army ordered
special formations ( "vyuhas" ). Each formation had a specific purpose;
some were defensive while others were offensive. Each formation had its specific
strengths and weaknesses. Mahābhārata' list the following:
01.
Krauncha vyuha
(heron formation)
02.
Makara vyuha
(crocodile formation)
03.
Kurma vyuha
(tortoise or turtle formation)
04.
Trishula vyuha
(the trident formation)
05.
Chakra vyuha
(wheel or discus formation)
06.
Kamala vyuha
or
Padma vyuha
(lotus formation)
07.
Garud vyuha
(Eagle formation)
08.
Oormi vyuha
(Ocean formation)
09.
Mandala vyuha
(Galactic formation)
10.
Vajra vyuha
(diamond/ thunderbolt formation)
11.
Shakata vyuha
(Box/Cart formation)
12.
Asura vyuha
(Demon formation)
13.
Deva vyuha
(Divine formation)
14.
Soochi vyuha
(Needle formation)
15.
Sringataka vyuha
(Horned formation)
16.
Chandrakala vyuha
(Crescent/ Curved Blade formation)
It is not clear what the formations actually indicate. They may be formations
bearing resemblance to animals, or they may be names given to strategies and
formations. [6]
Rules of engagement
The two supreme commanders met and framed "rules of ethical conduct",
dharmayuddha , for the war. The rules included:
• Fighting must begin no earlier than sunrise and end exactly at sunset.
• Multiple warriors may not attack a single warrior.
• Two warriors may "duel", or engage in prolonged personal combat,
only if they carry the same weapons and they are on the same mount
(no mount, a horse, an elephant, or a chariot).
• No warrior may kill or injure a warrior who has surrendered.
• One who surrenders becomes a prisoner of war and will then be subject
to the protections of a prisoner of war.
• No warrior may kill or injure an unarmed warrior.
• No warrior may kill or injure an unconscious warrior.
• No warrior may kill or injure a person or animal not taking part in the 	war.
• No warrior may kill or injure a warrior whose back is turned away.
• No warrior may attack a woman.
• No warrior may strike an animal not considered a direct threat.
• The rules specific to each weapon must be followed. For example,
it is prohibited to strike below the waist in mace warfare.
• Warriors may not engage in any "unfair" warfare.
Most of these laws were broken at least once by both sides.
Course of war
The Kurukshetra War lasted eighteen days. It was fought only during daylight
hours; fighting ceased at sunset. The armies met on a vast field in
Kurukshetra; each day the battle was characterised by numerous individual
combats, as well as mass raids against entire enemy divisions. The victor or the
vanquished on each day was determined not by any territories gained, but by the
body count. This was a war to the death. The victor was the survivor.
Before the battle
It has been observed that the year in which the Mahabharata War took place,
the year had three
eclipses
on
earth in a span of thirty days. Eclipses are considered ill for the life giving
planets such as Sun and Moon in Hindu Mythology. Lunar and Solar Eclipses bring
Sun-Earth-Moon in one line one way or the other so that the earth experiences
some kind of imbalance to the environment as well as inhabitants on earth. It is
widely noted that though such year with three eclipses causes great harm, it can
cause great benefit to mankind. This war, resulted into a gift called
Bhagavad Gita
to the mankind.
On the
first day
of the war, as would be on all the following days, the
Kaurava army
stood facing west and the
Pandava
army
stood facing east. The Kaurava army was formed such that it faced all sides:
elephants formed its body; the kings, its head; and the steeds, its wings.
Bhishma , in
consultation with his commanders
Drona ,
Bahlika
and
Kripa ,
remained in the rear.
The Pandava
army was organised by
Yudhisthira
and
Arjuna
in the
Vajra
formation. Because the Pandava army was smaller than the Kaurava's,
they decided to employ the tactic of each warrior engaging as many enemies as
possible. This involved an element of surprise, with the bowmen showering arrows
from hidden behind the frontal attackers. The attackers in the front were
equipped with short-range weapons like maces, battle-axes, swords and lances.
Ten divisions ( Akshauhinis ) of the Kaurava army were arranged in a
formidable phalanx. The eleventh was put under the immediate command of Bhishma,
partly to protect him. The safety of the supreme commander Bhishma was central
to
Duryodhana 's strategy, as he had placed all his hope on the great warrior's
abilities.
Dushasana , the younger brother of Duryodhana, was the military officer
in-charge of Bhishma's protection.
When the war was declared and the two armies were facing each other,
Arjuna realised
that he would have to kill his dear great-granduncle
( Bhishma ),
on whose lap he had played as a child, and his respected teacher
( Drona ),
who had held his hand and taught him how to hold the bow and arrow, making him
the greatest archer in the world. Arjuna felt weak and sickened at the prospect
of killing his entire family, including his 100 cousins, and friends such as
Ashwathama . Despondent and confused about what is religious, what is right
and what is wrong, Arjuna turned to Krishna for divine advice and teachings.
Krishna, who Arjuna chose as his charioteer, advised him of his duty. This
conversation forms the
Bhagavad Gita , one of the most respected religious and philosophical texts
in the Hindu religion. Krishna instructs Arjuna not to yield to degrading
impotence and to fight his kin, for that was the only way to righteousness. He
also reminded him that this was a war between righteousness and unrighteousness
(dharma and adharma), and it was Arjuna's duty to slay anyone who supported the
cause of unrighteousness, or sin. Krishna then revealed his divine form and
explained that he is born on earth in each aeon when evil raises its head. It
also forms one of the foremost treatise on the several aspects of Yoga and
mystical knowledge.
Before the battle began,
Yudhisthira
did something unexpected. He suddenly dropped his weapons, took
off his armour and started walking towards the Kaurava army with folded hands in
prayer. The Pandava brothers and the Kauravas looked on in disbelief, thinking
Yudhisthira was surrendering before the first arrow was shot. Yudhisthira's
purpose became clear, however, when he fell on Bhishma's feet to seek his
blessing for success in battle. Bhishma, grandfather to both the Pandavas and
Kauravas, blessed Yudhisthira. Yudhisthira returned to his chariot and the
battle was ready to commence.
Day one
When the battle commenced, Bhishma went through the Pandava army wreaking havoc
wherever he went.
Abhimanyu ,
Arjuna's son, seeing this went straight at Bhishma, defeated his bodyguards and
directly attacked the commander of the Kaurava forces. The Pandavas suffered
numerous losses and were defeated at the end of the first day.
Virata 's sons,
Uttara
and
Sweta, were slain by
Shalya
and
Bhishma .
Krishna consoled the distraught Yudhisthira saying that eventually victory would
be his.
Day two
The
second day
of the war commenced with a confident Kaurava army facing the
Pandavas. Arjuna, realising that something needed to be done quickly to reverse
the Pandava losses, decided that he must try to kill Bhishma. Krishna skillfully
located Bhishma's chariot and steered Arjuna toward him. Arjuna tried to engage
Bhishma in a duel, but the Kaurava soldiers placed around Bhishma to protect him
attacked Arjuna to try to prevent him from directly engaging Bhishma. Arjuna and
Bhishma fought a fierce battle that raged for hours.
Drona
and
Dhristadyumna
similarly engaged in a duel during which Drona broke
Dhristadyumna's bow numerous times.
Bhima
intervened
and rescued Dhristadyumna. Duryodhana sent the
Kalinga
forces to attack Bhima and most of them lost their lives at his
hands. Bhishma immediately came to relieve the battered Kalinga forces.
Satyaki , who
was assisting Bhima, shot at Bhishma's charioteer and killed him. Bhishma's
horses, with no one to control them, bolted carrying Bhishma away from the
battle field. The Kaurava army had suffered great losses at the end of the
second day.
Day three
On the
third day , Bhishma arranged the Kaurava forces in the formation of an eagle
with himself leading from the front, while Duryodhana's forces protected the
rear. Bhishma wanted to be sure of avoiding any mishap. The Pandavas countered
this by using the crescent formation with
Bhima
and Arjuna
at the head of the right and the left horns, respectively. The Kauravas
concentrated their attack on Arjuna's position. Arjuna's chariot was soon
covered with arrows and javelins. Arjuna, with amazing skill, built a
fortification around his chariot with an unending stream of arrows from his bow.
Abhimanyu
and Satyaki combined to defeat the
Gandhara
forces of
Shakuni .
Bhima and his son
Ghatotkacha
attacked Duryodhana in the rear. Bhima's arrows hit Duryodhana,
who swooned in his chariot. His charioteer immediately drove them out of danger.
Duryodhana's forces, however, saw their leader fleeing the battlefield and soon
scattered. Bhishma soon restored order and Duryodhana returned to lead the army.
He was angry at Bhishma, however, at what he saw as leniency towards the five
Pandava brothers and spoke harshly at his commander. Bhishma, stung by this
unfair charge, fell on the Pandava army with renewed vigour. It was as if there
were more than one Bhishma on the field.
[7]
The Pandava army soon began to retreat in chaos.
Arjuna and Krishna attacked Bhishma trying to restore order. Arjuna and
Bhishma again engaged in a fierce duel, however Arjuna's heart was not in the
battle as he did not like the idea of attacking his great-uncle. During the
battle, Bhishma killed numerous soldiers of Arjuna's armies. This enraged Lord
Krishna, who grabbed a chariot wheel to kill Bhishma. Bhishma wanted Lord
Krishna to break his vow not to pick up any weapon in the battle. Bhishma at
once fell at his feet and requested Krishna to kill him, as there would be
nothing greater than attaining death at the hands of the supreme lord himself.
Seeing this, Krishna calmed down and smiled and the battle between Arjuna and
Bhishma continued.
Day four
The
fourth day
battle was noted for the valour shown by Bhima. Bhishma commanded
the Kaurava army to move on the offensive from the outset. Arjuna's son,
Abhimanyu, was surrounded and attacked by a number of Kaurava princes. Arjuna
joined the fray in aid of Abhimanyu. Bhima appeared on the scene with his mace
aloft and started attacking the Kauravas. Duryodhana sent a huge force of
elephants at Bhima. When Bhima saw the mass of elephants approaching, he got
down from his chariot and attacked them single handedly with his iron mace. They
scattered and stampeded into the Kaurava forces killing many. Duryodhana ordered
an all-out attack on Bhima. Bhima withstood all that was thrown at him and
attacked Duryodhana's brothers, killing eight of them. Bhima was soon struck by
an arrow on the chest and sat down in his chariot dazed.
Ghatotkacha
seeing this, fell upon the Kaurava army in anger. Bhishma,
realizing that no one could stand against the angry Ghatotkacha, sounded
retreat. Duryodhana was distraught at the loss of his brothers.
Duryodhana, overwhelmed by sorrow at the loss of his brothers, went to
Bhishma at the end of the fourth day of the battle, and asked his commander how
could the Pandavas, facing a superior force against them, still prevail and win.
Bhishma replied that the Pandavas had justice on their side and advised
Duryodhana to seek peace.
Days five through nine
When the battle resumed on the
fifth day , the slaughter continued. The Pandava army again suffered against
Bhishma's attacks. Satyaki bore the brunt of
Drona 's attacks
and soon could not withstand them. Bhima drove by and rescued Satyaki. Arjuna
fought and killed thousands of soldiers sent by Duryodhana to attack him. The
unimaginable carnage continued during the ensuing days of the battle. The
sixth day
was marked by a prodigious slaughter.
Drona
caused
immeasurable loss of life on the Pandava side. The formations of both the armies
were broken. On the
eighth day
Bhima killed eight of Dhritarashtra's sons and Arjuna's son
Iravan
was
killed by the Kauravas. On the
ninth day
Krishna, once again overcome by anger at the apparent inability of
Arjuna to defeat Bhishma, rushed towards the Kaurava commander, but Arjuna
stopped him. Realising that the war could not be won as long as Bhisma were
standing, Krishna suggested the strategy of placing a woman in the field to face
him.
Day 10
On the
tenth day
the Pandavas, unable to withstand Bhishma's prowess, decided to
put
Shikhandi ,
who had been a woman in a prior life in front of Bhishma, as Bhishma has taken a
vow not to attack a woman. Shikhandi's arrows fell on Bhishma without hindrance.
Arjuna positioned himself behind Shikhandi, protecting himself from Bhishma's
attack, and aimed his arrows at the weak points in Bhishma's armour. Soon, with
arrows sticking from every part of his body, the great warrior fell from his
chariot. His body did not touch the ground as it was held aloft by the arrows
protruding from his body.
The Kauravas and Pandavas gathered around Bhishma and, at his request, Arjuna
placed three arrows under Bhisma's head to support it. Bhishma had promised his
father, King Shantanu, that he would live until Hastinapur were secured from all
directions. To keep this promise, Bhishma used the boon of "Ichcha Mrityu" (self
wished death) given to him by his father. After the war was over, when Hastinapur
had become safe from all sides and after giving lessons on politics and
Vishnu Sahastranama
to the Pandavas, Bhishma died on the first day of
Uttarayana .
Day 11
With Bhishma unable to continue, Karna entered the battle field,
much to Duryodhna's joy. He made
Drona
the supreme
commander of the Kaurava forces. Karna and Duryodhana wanted to capture
Yudhisthira alive. Killing Yudhisthira in battle would only enrage the Pandavas
more, whereas holding him as hostage would be strategically useful. Drona
formulated his battle plans for the
eleventh day
to this aim. He cut down Yudhisthira's bow and the Pandava army
feared that their leader would be taken prisoner. Arjuna rushed to the scene,
however, and with a flood of arrows made Drona retreat.
Day 12
With his attempts to capture
Yudhisthira
failed, Drona confided to Duryodhna that it would be difficult
as long as Arjuna was around. The king of Trigartadesa,
Susharma
along with his 3 brothers and 35 sons who were fighting on the
Kaurava side made a pact that they would kill Arjuna or die. They went into the
battle field on the
twelfth day
and challenged Arjuna. Arjuna gave them a fierce fight in which
the brothers fell dead after fighting a brave fight. Drona continued to try and
capture Yudhisthira. The Pandavas however fought hard and delivered severe blows
to the Kaurava army.
Day 13
Duryodhana
summoned King Bhagadatta, the monarch of Pragjyotisha (modern day
Assam, India). Bhagadatta had thousands of gigantic elephants in his stable and
was considered the strongest warrior on this planet in elephant warfare.
Bhagadatta attacked Arjuna with his gigantic elephant named Suprateeka. It was a
fierce battle in which Bhagadatta matched Arjuna
astra
for astra.
On the other side of the battlefield, the remaining four Pandavas and their
allies were finding it impossible to break Dronacharya's Chakravyuha formation.
As Arjuna was busy fighting with the Trigartadesa princes and the Prajayogastha
monarch on the other side of the battlefield, he could not be summoned
to break the
Chakravyuha
formation, which could only be broken by entering and exiting
the formation. Yudhisthira instructed,
Abhimanyu ,
one of Arjuna's sons to break the Chakravyuha formation. Abhimanyu knew the
secret of entering the Chakravyuh formation, but did not know how to exit it.
Eventually he was trapped in the Chakravyuha, which led to his death.
Upon learning of the death of his son, Arjuna vowed to kill
Jayadratha
on the morrow before the battle ended at sunset, otherwise he would throw
himself into the fire.
Day 14
While searching for Jayadratha on the battlefield, Arjuna slew an
akshouhini
(hundreds of thousands (109,350)) of Kaurava soldiers. The
Kaurava army tightly protected Jayadratha, however, preventing Arjuna from
attacking him. Finally, in late afternoon, Arjuna found Jayadratha guarded by
the mighty kaurav army. Seeing his friend's plight, Lord Krishna
raised his
Sudarshana Chakra
to cover the sun, faking a sunset. Arjuna fought a
powerful battle with Jayadrtha and finally defeated him. Then, Arjuna shot a
powerful arrow decapitating Jayadratha.
The battle continued past sunset. When the bright moon rose,
Ghatotkacha
, son of Bhima slaughtered numerous warriors,
attacking while flying in the air. Karna stood against him and
both fought fiercely until Karna released the Indrastra,
a celestial dart given to him by
Indra .
Ghatotkacha increased his size and fell dead on the Kaurav army
killing thousands of them.
UKT: Ghatotkacha was mothered by a demi-goddess (a demon or "Asura")
while Bhima was in her country. Can this place be on the border between
India and Myanmar? What I have in mind is the Myanmar-province of Yaw which
even to this day is considered by the people from the Myanmar mainland to be
the area of witches and wizards. As a young child in 1942, my parents and I
had lived for some six months in Pauk, a town on the outskirt of the proper
Yaw. - UKT 100422.
Day 15
After King
Drupada
and King
Virata
were
slain by
Drona ,
Bhima , and
Dhristadyumna
fought him on the fifteenth day. Because Drona was very
powerful and inconquerable having the irresistible brahmadanda, Krishna hinted
to Yudhisthira that Drona would give up his arms if his son Ashwathama was dead.
Bhima proceeded to kill an elephant named Ashwathama, and loudly proclaimed that
Ashwathama was dead. Drona approached Yudhisthira to seek the truth of his son's
death. Yudhisthira proclaimed
Ashwathama Hatahath, naro va Kunjaro va ,
implying Ashwathama had died but he was nor sure whether it was a Drona's son or
an elephant, The latter part of his proclamation (Naro va Kunjaro va) were
drowned out by trumpets sounded in triumph, on Krishna's instruction (a
different version of the story is that Yudhisthira pronounced the last words so
feebly that Drona could not hear the word elephant). Prior to this incident, the
chariot of Yudhisthira, proclaimed as
Dharma raja
(King of
righteousness), hovered a few inches off the ground. After the event, the
chariot landed on the ground as he had knowingly uttered a falsehood.
Drona was disheartened, and laid down his weapons. He was then killed by
Dhristadyumna
to avenge his father's death and satisfy his vow. Later, the
Pandava's mother
Kunti
secretly met her abandoned son
Karna
and
requested him to spare the Pandavas, as they were his younger brothers. Karna
promised Kunti that he would spare them except for Arjuna.
Day 16
On the sixteenth day,
Karna
became
supreme commander of the Kaurava army, killing countless warriors during the
day.
Karna fought valiantly but was surrounded and attacked by Pandava generals,
who were unable to prevail upon him. Karna inflicted heavy damage on the Pandava
army, which fled. Then Arjuna successfully resisted Karna's weapons with his
own, and also inflicted casualties upon the Kaurava army. The sun soon set, and
with darkness and dust making the assessment of proceedings difficult, the
Kaurava army retreated for the day.
[8]
On the same day, Bhima swung his mace and
shattered Dushasana's chariot. Bhima seized Dushasana, ripped his right hand
from shoulder and killed him, tearing open his chest and drinking his blood and
carrying some to smear on Draupadi's untied hair, thus fulfilling his vow made
when Draupadi
was humiliated.
Day 17
On the seventeenth day,
Karna
defeated
Bhima
and
Yudhisthira
in battle but spared their lives. Later, Karna resumed duelling
with
Arjuna.
Day 18
On the 18th day, Yudhishthira killed king
Shalya ,
Sahadeva
killed
Shakuni ,
and
Bhima
killed
Duryodhana's remaining brothers. Realizing that he had been defeated,
Duryodhana
fled the battle field and took refuge in the lake, where the Pandavas caught up
with him. Under the supervision of the now returned
Balarama , a
mace battle took place between
Bhima
and
Duryodhana
in which
Duryodhana
was mortally wounded. Ashwatthama, Kripacharya, and Kritavarma
met
Duryodhana
at his deathbed and promised to avenge him. They attacked the
Pandavas' camp later that night and killed all the Pandavas' remaining army,
besides
Dhristadyumna ,
Shikhandi
Aftermath
At the end of the 18th day, only Twelve warriors survived the war — the five
Pandavas ,
Krishna ,
Satyaki ,
Ashwatthama ,
Kripacharya ,
Yuyutsu ,
Vrishakethu
and
Kritvarma . Vrishakethu was the only son of Karna who survived the horrific
slaughter. He later came under the patronage of the Pandavas. During the
campaign that preceded the Ashvamedha –yaga, Vrishakethu accompanied Arjuna and
participated in the battles with Sudhava and Babruvahana. During that campaign
Vrishakethu married the daughter of king Yavanatha (perhaps a king of the
western regions). It is said, Arjuna developed great affection for Vrishakethu,
his nephew. Yudhisthira was crowned king of
Hastinapur .
He renounced the throne after ruling for more than 30 years, passing on the
crown
to Arjuna's
grandson
Parikshit . He then left for the
Himalayas
with
Draupadi
and his brothers in what was to be their last journey.
Draupadi
and four Pandavas —
Bhima ,
Arjuna ,
Nakula , and
Sahadeva
— died
during the journey.
Yudhisthira , the lone survivor and being of pious heart, was invited by
Dharma
Historicity
Attempts have been made to find the exact date for the occurrence of this war
based on astronomical and literary records, such as the
Mahābhārata
and
later literature. There have been a number of theories put forward [9] :
• S. Balakrishna concluded a date of
2559 BCE
using consecutive lunar eclipses.
• I. N. Iyengar concluded a date of
1478 BCE
using double eclipses and Saturn+Jupiter
conjunctions .
• B. N. Achar states a date of
3067 BCE
using planetary positions listed in the
Mahābhārata .
• P. V. Holey states a date of November 13,
3143 BCE
using planetary positions and calendar systems.
Vartak calculates a date of October 16,
5561 BCE
using planetary positions. [10]
• Based on translation work by K. Sadananda, on November 22
3067 BCE , Kurukshetra War started.
[11]
• "The findings in Dwarka and archeological evidence found are compatible
with the Mahabharata tradition and removes the lingering doubt about the
historicity and poisions Mahabharata war date to around 1500 BCE
[12]]
also see
[2]
Go back
Kurukshetra-War-note-b
Contents of this page
End of TIL file