Agarwals
Agarwals
Through this medium I can share my life experiences and about myself.
Saturday, 11 December 2010
Agarwals   (Hindi:   अग्रवाल ), are a large and influential community in   India. Traditionally, the Agarwals have been a trading community in northern   and   western India, though in modern times they follow other professions as well. People from the Agarwal community are very successful entrepreneurs and have played a prominent role in India's   economic development.
The texts and legends of the Agarwal community trace the origin of Agarwals to the legendary   Kshatriya   king   Agrasena   of the
Sun Dynasty
who adopted   Vanika   dharma   for the benefit of his people.   Literally, Agarwal means the   people of   Agroha , a city in ancient   Kuru
Panchala , near   Hisar   in   Haryana region   said to be founded by Agrasena. The majority of Agarwals belong to the   Vaishnavite   sect of   Hinduism   while the remaining 14% of them practice   Jainism .
Legend
Main article:  Agrasena
The Agarwals claim descent from the legendary king  Agrasena  of  Agroha  or Agreya, near  Hisar  in  Haryana . Various legends about Agroha and Agrasena are found among the Agarwals.
Noted Indian  Hindi  author  Bharatendu Harishchandra  (himself an Agarwal ) wrote  Agarwalon ki Utpatti  (The origin of Agarwals) in 1871 , based on an account in the  Mahalaksmi  Vrat Katha  manuscript.
According to this account, Maharaja Agrasena was a  Suryavanshi   Kshatriya  leader, born during the last stages of  Dwapar Yuga . He was the eldest son of the King Ballabh of Pratapnagar. Agrasena fathered 18 children, from whom the Agarwal  gotras  came into being. Maharaja Agrasena was a peaceful king and did not like violence, once while performing a yagna, the Rajguru asked Maharaja Agrasena to sacrifice a goat in order for the ceremony to be successfully completed. Agrasena did not wish to kill the innocent animal and refused to the killing of the animal. The Rajguru advised that since he was a Kshatriya king, it was his duty to perform the ritual and if he does not wish to proceed, he should give up Kshatriya caste and take up Vaishya caste (Known as Baniya in the modern days) since it was not possible to go up the ladder in the Hindu Caste system to become a Brahmin. According to another legend, the Hindu goddess  Mahalakshmi  urged Agrasena to give up the Kshatriya tradition, and take up the Vaishya tradition of business, for the sake of the prosperity of his people. She asked him to establish a new kingdom, and promised that she would bless his descendants with prosperity and wealth. Agrasena travelled all over India with his queen to select a place for a new kingdom, and finally established his kingdom at  Agroha . According to Vachanakosha of Bulakhichand (1680 CE), Agar Rishi married a  naga-kanya  ( nagavanshi  girl) and had 18 children. A similar account is given in 1885 Bombay Presidency Gazetteer, Rishi Agrasen married 17 naga-kanyas.
Agrasena divided his kingdom amongst his 18 children, resulting in eighteen Agarwal gotras. Often, the number of gotras is stated to be seventeen and a half. According to one legend, Agrasena proceeded to conduct 18  mahayajnas  ("Great yajnas"). When he was in the process of performing his eighteenth  yajna , he was filled with compassion for the animal to be sacrificed. He put a stop to his eighteenth yajna announcing that no sacrifices will be made in his kingdom in the name of yajnas. Thus, the eighteenth yajna was not completed and Agrasena had only performed seventeen and a half yajnas. The sage  Garga  blessed him with seventeen and a half gotras.
In the later part of his life, King Agrasena approved the succession of his eldest son Vibhu to the throne and took  Vanaprastha   ashram . According to legend, Agroha was a prosperous city and a hundred thousand traders lived in the city during its heyday. An insolvent community man as well as an immigrant wishing to settle in the city would be given a rupee and a brick by each inhabitant of the city. Thus, he would have a hundred thousand bricks to build a house for himself, and a hundred thousand rupees to start a new business. Gradually, the city of Agroha declined and was finally destroyed in a huge fire. The residents of Agroha i.e. the Agarwals moved out of Agroha and spread in other parts of India.
History
The Agarwal community traces its origins to Agreya  Agroha , near  Hisar, Haryana  in  Haryana . The view is supported by historical evidence.
In Pradumna Charita of  samvat  1411, the Agarwal poet Sadharu wrote " अगरवाल
की
मेरी
जात ,
पुर
आगरोए
महि
उतपात " ("My  jāti  is Agarwal, and I trace my roots to the city of  Agroha ). Agroye (Agra or Agr) associated with Agroha.
In his Padma Purana of 1711, Muni Sabhachandra writes " अग्रोहे
निकट
प्रभु
ठाढे
जोग ,
करैं
वन्दना
सब
ही
लोग ||
अग्रवाल
श्रावक
प्रतिबोध ,
त्रेपन
क्रिया
बताई
सोध ||", (When Lohacharya was near Agroha, he taught the 53 actions to the Agarwal shravakas).
In a Sanskrit inscription, the Agarwals are referred to as  Agrotaka  ("from Agroha"): " सं
१३२९
चैत्र
वुदी
दशम्यां
बुधवासरे
अद्येह
योगिनिपुरे
समस्त
राजावलि - समलन्कृत
ग्यासदीन
राज्ये
अत्रस्थित
अग्रोतक
परम
श्रावक
जिनचरणकमल ".
Migration to Delhi
The Agarwal merchant   Nattal Sahu , and the Agarwal poet   Vibudh Shridhar   lived during the reign of   Tomara   King Anangapal of Yoginipur (now Mehrauli, near Delhi). Vibudh Shridhar wrote Pasanahacariu in   1132 AD , which includes a historical account of Yoginipur (early   Delhi   near   Mehrauli ) then.
In 1354,   Firoz Shah Tughlaq   had started the construction of a new city near Agroha, called   Hisar-e-Feroza   ("the fort of Firoz"). Most of the raw material for building the town was brought from Agroha. The town later came to be called   Hisar . Hisar became a major centre of the Agarwal community. Some Agarwals are also said to have moved to the Kotla Firoz Shah fort in Delhi, built by Firoz Shah Tughlaq.
Migration to Rajput kingdoms
Many Agarwals migrated to Rajasthan. They form large fraction of the merchant population of Shekhawati region. Along with Maheshwari, Khandelwal and Oswals, they form the Marwari bania community.
In the early 15th century, Agarwals flourished as a trader community, under the  Tomaras  of Gwalior. According to several  Sanskrit
inscription at the  Gwalior Fort  in  Gwalior District , several traders (Sanghavi Kamala Simha, Khela Brahmachari, Sandhadhip Namadas etc.) belonging to  Agrotavansha  (Agarwal clan) supported the sculptures and carving of idols at the place.
Historian K.C. Jain comments:
“Golden Age of the Jain
Digambar Temple in Gwalior under the Tomara rulers inspired by the  Kashtha  Bhattarakas and their Jaina Agarwal
disciples who dominated the Court of father and son viz. Dungar Singh
(1425-59)and Kirti Singh (1459-80) with the Poet-Laureate  Raighu  as their mouthpiece and
spokesman, a centenarian author of as many as thirty books, big and small of
which two dozen are reported to be extant today. Verify the advent of the
Hisar-Firuza-based Jain Agarwals who functioned as the ministers and
treasurers of the ruling family had turned the Rajput State of Gwalior into a
Digambara Jain Centre par excellence representing the culture of the Agarwal
multi-millionaire shravakas as sponsored by them.”
In 15th century, many Agarwals migrated to  Amber  kingdom (now  Jaipur ). In VS 1535, Agarwal Nenasi conducted a  pratishtha  ceremony at  Sanganer . A copy of Amarsen Chariu copied in VS 1577 at  Sonipat  was found at Amber, suggesting that Agarwals took sacred texts with them during this migration .
Migration to Eastern India Later, during the Mughal rule, and during the   British East India Company   administration, some Agarwals migrated to   Bihar   and   Calcutta , who became the major component of the
Marwaris . The   family of Babu Shankarlal   became zamindars at   Arrah , which repaired temples at Masarh and built a new   Jain   temple in 1819.   Agarwals under the Mughal The Mughal were relatively liberal, and some Agarwals rose to prominent positions in this period.   Sahu Todar   was a supervisor of the royal mint at   Agra , who had rebuilt the 514 Jain stupas at   Mathura   in 1573, during the rule of Akbar.
Sah Ranveer Singh was a royal treasurer during the rule of Akbar. He was awarded a jagir in western UP, where he established the town   Saharanpur . His father as well as son and grandson had built several Jain temples, including the one at Kucha Sukhanand in   Delhi .
In Delhi, in the walled city, many Agarwals were allocated lands on the north side of   Chandni Chowk . In 1656, the Agarwals built a temple in a tent in the   Urdu Bazar , now known as   Lal Mandir .   Raja Harsukh Rai   built the first temple with a shikhar ( Naya Mandir ) in Dharampura in 1807.
Lala Ratan Chand   became the diwan of   Mughal   emperor   Farrukhsiyar   (1713–1719) in 1712, and was given the title of Raja. He was associated with the   Saiyid Brothers , who served as the king makers for several years, and became involved in the court intrigues. He was executed during the battle of Hasanpur by the order of the new emperor   Muhammad Shah   (1719–1748) in 1719. He became the founder of the Rajvanshi Agarwals.
Ramji Das Gurwala   was a major banker who had both loaned and donated funds to Emperor   Bahadur Shah Zafar   during the   1857 rebellion . He was later executed by the British. His family later founded   Delhi Cloth Mills .
Another relocated and influential person was   Lal Chand Modi , the Modi (in-charge of Treasury) of   Muhammad Amir khan   (the Amir of   Tonk ). His descendants later settled in Ajmer.   Agarwal Society in modern India The Agarwals population was 2,718,390, according to the 1911 census of India. In 1936, Chowdhary Chhotu Ram, a minister in the   Punjab   Government made a law which cancelled all the debts of the villagers. Many Agarwal traders were ruined and migrated to Delhi in search of a living. They settled in colonies like Kamla Nagar, Shakti Nagar and Model Basti. Their trade took place around the walled city areas of   Chandni Chowk ,   Khari Baoli , Dariba Kalan, Nai Sarak, Naya Bazaar,   Sadar Bazaar   and Chowri Bazaar.
During modern times, many Agarwals were involved in the Indian Independence struggle like   Lala Lajpat Rai . They also established major business houses like   Dalmia   -   Sahu Jain ,   Birla , Poddar, Podar,   Bajaj ,   Singhania , Goenkas of   RPG Group ,   Lala Shri Ram   of   Delhi Cloth Mills   etc.   Bharatendu Harishchandra , a major literary figure, was also an Agarwal. The father of modern   Lahore ,   Sir Ganga Ram   was also an Agarwal.
Many of India's current notable businesspeople belong to the Agarwal community. These include   Lakshmi Mittal   of Arcelor Mittal steel,   Subhash Chandra   Goel of Zee TV,   Sunil Mittal   of Bharti Telecom,   Naresh Goyal   of Jet Airways,   Naveen Jindal   of Jindal Group,   Sajjan Jindal   of JSW Steel,   Anil Agarwal   of Vedanta Resources and   Indu Jain   of   The Times Group .
Gotras
The Agarwal community is divided into eighteen  gotras , which are exogamous in nature. Sometimes, the number of gotras is stated as seventeen and a half  (see the  legend section )
Gotra
Original Gotra
Lord
Saint (Guru)
Veda
Airan/Aeron
Aurva
Indramal
Atri / Aaurva
Yajurveda
Bansal
Vatsya
Virbhan
Vishist/Vatsa
Samaveda
Bindal or Vindal
Vishist
Vrinddev
Yavasya or Vashista
Yajurveda
Dhoumya
Vasudev
Bhardwaj
Kaatyayni
Yajurveda
Dharan or Deran
Dhanyas
Dhavandev
Bhekaar or Ghaumya
Yajurveda
Garg or Gargeya
Gargasya
Pushpadev
Gargacharya or  Garg
Yajurveda
Goyal   or   Goel
Gomil
Gendumal
Gautam or Gobhil
Yajurveda
Goyan, Goin, Goyanor or Gangal or Gol or Goenka
Gautan
Godhar
Purohit or Gautam
Yajurveda
Jindal
Gemino
Jaitrasangh
Bruhaspati or Jaimini
Yajurveda
Kansal
Kaushik
Manipal
Kaushik
Yajurveda
Kuchhal, Kachal or Kuchchal
Kashyap
Karanchand
Kush or Kashyap
Samaveda
Madhukul/ Mudgal
Mudgal
Madhavsen
Aashvalayan/Mudgal
Rigveda / Yajurveda
Mangal
Maandav
Amritsen
Mudragal/Mandavya
Rigveda / Yajurveda
Mittal
Maitreya
Mantrapati
Vishwamitra/Maitreya
Yajurveda
Naagil/Nangal/Nagal
Naagend
Narsev
Kaudalya/Nagendra
Samaveda
Singhal/Singla/Singal
Shandalya
Sindhupati
Shringi/Shandilya
Samaveda
Tayal
Taitireya
Tarachand
Saakal/Taitireya
Yajurveda
Tingal/Tunghal
Taandav
Tambolkarna
Shandilya/Tandya
Yajurveda
Surnames
The surname Agarwal was derived by taking 'Agra' from Agrasena and 'wal' ('wal'originally being 'bal' was taken from the word Baalak meaning child). The word Agarwal effectively means Son of Agrasena. Many Agarwals have adopted their gotra name as their surname.  Gupta  is a common surname adopted by some Agarwal's, and several partial Agarwal families like Gadia, Saini, Vishnoi and  Varshney  (majorly found in western Uttar Pradesh and are the progenies and followers of  Sri Akrur Ji Maharaj ). Varshney (or Barahseni) is a version of a name, first used by Arjuna to address Krishna in the Mahābhārata (Chapter 1, Shloka 41, Swami Sivananda translation). There is some debate over whether  Varshneys  belong to the Vaishya (merchants and artisans) or Kshatriya (warriors, rulers and politicians) caste. In addition, many others use surnames linked with the place of their origin, for example Jhunjhunwala, Kedia, Gindodiya, Kalothia, Dokania, Lohia, Chamaria, and Singhania etc.
Categories
According to the legend, the Agarwal community developed twenty rules of conduct. Those who followed all the twenty rules were called  Bisa  Agarwal, those who followed only ten rules were called  Dassa  Agarwals, those who followed only five were called  Punj  Agarwals and so on.  According to some sources, the  dasa  Agarwals are said to be the descendants of Agarwals through non-Agarwal wives.
In his book  Agarwalon ki Utpatti ,  Bhartendu Harishchandra  categorized Agarwals in four branches according to their places or inhabitation:
Marwaris Deswal Purabiye (Easterners) Pachihiye (Westerners)
Culture
The Agarwal community speaks  Hindi ,  Marwari ,  Punjabi  or related dialects. Traditionally, Agarwal households have followed a vegetarian diet and smoking/alcoholism is generally looked down upon in the community.
There have been many notable Hindi authors amongst the Agarwals of the likes of  Bhartendu Harishchandra ,  Babu Gulabrai  and  Kaka Hathrasi  (whose real name was Prabhulal Garg). Some of the popular Hindi dailies and media houses are run by Agarwals. These include  The Times of India ,  The Indian Express , the  Amar Ujala  and the  Dainik Bhaskar . [1]
Demographics
The 1911 Census of India by the British East India Company reported a total of 1,019,698 Agarwals, making them one of the largest ethnic groups in India.
Posted by
Ritesh Agarwal
at
12:37
No comments:
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share to Pinterest
Home
Subscribe to:
Posts (Atom)
About Me
Ritesh Agarwal
Liverpool, United Kingdom
I am very friendly in nature, and a reliable person too. I am a football freak, who loves to play football at any time of the day, no matter how tired I am. Just crazy about it.
View my complete profile
Followers
Blog Archive
▼
2010
(1)
▼
December
(1)
Agarwals (Hindi: अग्रवाल), are a large and influe...
Yahoo News: Top Stories
BBC Breaking News
There was an error in this gadget
Loading...
Awesome Inc. template. Powered by
Blogger .