Me and my lovely country
skip to main
|
skip to sidebar
Me and my lovely country
Tuesday, January 5, 2010
from wikipedia:
Colonial Cambodia From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation, search កម្ពុជាសម័យអាណានិគម Protectorat du Cambodia Protectorate of Cambodia
Protectorate of France
1863–1887
→
Flag
Capital Phnom Penh
Language(s) French, Khmer
Religion Theravada Buddhism 70% (Cambodian), Roman Catholicism 30% (French)
Political structure Protectorate
King
- 1860-1904 Norodom
Historical era New Imperialism
- Protectorate established 1863
- Merged into Indochinese Union 1887
- Independence 9 November 1953
In 1863, Cambodia under king Norodom became a protectorate of France. In October 1887, the French announced the formation of the Union Indochinoise (Union of Indochina), which at that time comprised Cambodia, already an autonomous French possession, and the three regions of Vietnam (Tonkin, Annam, and Cochinchina. In 1893, Laos was annexed after the French threatened Siam's King Chulalongkorn with war, thereby forcing him to give up the territory. Contents [hide] 1 French colonial occupation
2 Economy during the French colonial occupation
3 Emergence of Khmer nationalism
4 Struggle for Khmer unity
5 The campaign for independence
6 References
7 External links
[edit] French colonial occupation The seat of the Governor-General for the whole of French Indochina was based in Hanoi, which was situated in Tonkin (now northern Vietnam). Cambodia, being a constituent protectorate of French Indochina, was governed by the Résident Supérieur (Resident-General) for Cambodia, who was directly appointed by the Ministry of Marine and Colonies in Paris. The Resident-General was in turn assisted by Residents, or local governors, who were posted in all the provincial centers, such as, Battambang, Pursat, Odong, and Siem Reap. Phnom Penh, the capital, was under the direct administration of the Resident-General. History of Cambodia
This article is part of a series
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Early history of Cambodia
Funan (68 AD – 550 AD)
Chenla (550 AD – 802 AD)
Khmer Empire (802 AD – 1431 AD)
Charktomok (1437 AD – 1525 AD)
Lovek (1525 – 1593)
Dark ages of Cambodia (1593 – 1863)
Loss of Mekong Delta to Việt Nam
French Colonial Rule (1863–1953)
Japanese occupation of Cambodia (1941–1945)
Post-Independence Cambodia
Coup of 1970
Khmer Republic (1970–1975)
Việt Nam War Incursion of 1970
Khmer Rouge Regime (1975–1979)
Cambodian–Vietnamese War (1975–1989)
People's Republic of Kampuchea/State of Cambodia (1979–1993)
1992–93 UNTAC
Modern Cambodia (1993–present)
Timeline
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Cambodia Portal
v • d • e
The Resident-General held considerable power, but the person in the position frequently wanted more. In 1897, the ruling Resident-General complained to Paris that the current king of Cambodia, King Norodom was no longer fit to rule and asked for permission to assume the king's powers to collect taxes, issue decrees, and even appoint royal officials and choose crown princes. From that time, Norodom and the future kings of Cambodia were figureheads and merely were patrons of the Buddhist religion in Cambodia, though they were still viewed as god-kings by the peasant population. All other power was in the hands of the Resident-General and the colonial bureaucracy. Nonetheless, this bureaucracy was formed mostly of French officials, and the only Asians freely permitted were ethnic Vietnamese, who were viewed as the dominant Asians in the Indochinese Union. In 1904, King Norodom died. Rather than pass the throne on to Norodom's sons, the French passed the succession to Norodom's brother Sisowath, whose branch of the royal family was more submissive and less nationalistic to French rule than Norodom's, who was viewed as the more nationalistic branch of the family. Likewise, Norodom was viewed as responsible for the constant Cambodian revolts against French rule. Another reason was that Norodom's favorite son, who he wanted to succeed him as king, Prince Yukanthor, had, on one of his trips to Europe, stirred up public opinion about French colonial brutalities in occupied Cambodia.
Siem Reap, Battambang & Preah Vihear received by King Sisowath, 1907Meanwhile, the rule of King Sisowath, and his son, King Sisowath Monivong, were peaceful, even though the monarchs were nothing but puppets and pliant instruments of the French. During Sisowath's reign, the French succeeded in getting Thailand's reformist king, King Chulalongkorn, to sign a new treaty in 1907, which returned the northwestern provinces of Battambang and Siemreab back to Cambodian rule. In this sense, the Sisowath branch of the family is seen in restoring Cambodian land, even though it all passed under oppressive French colonial rule. [edit] Economy during the French colonial occupation Not long after the French first established an autonomous presence in Cambodia in 1863, the French realized that their dream of Cambodia becoming the "Singapore of Indochina" was an illusion and that Cambodia had no hidden wealth.[citation needed] Thereafter, Cambodia's economy was not significantly modernized. France collected taxes efficiently, but otherwise brought few changes to the Cambodian village economy. Discrimination against non-Vietnamese by the French continued, especially when it was revealed that Cambodians paid the highest taxes per capita in Indochina. In 1916, a tax revolt bought tens of thousands of peasants to Phnom Penh to petition King Sisowath Monivong for a reduction in taxes. The French, who had thought the Cambodians were too quiet and indolent to organize a protest, were shocked[citation needed]. Despite the protest, King Sisowath Monivong could do nothing. In 1925, villagers killed a French resident who threatened to arrest tax delinquents. Some areas of the economy did develop under French rule. The French built some roads and railroads on Cambodian territory. While relatively few kilometers of railways were laid, one important line connected Phnom Penh and the Thai border through Battambang. The cultivation of rubber and corn was economically important, and soon Battambang and Siemreab provinces became the rice bowls of Indochina. During the 1920s, Cambodia profited when rubber and corn were in demand, but after the Great Depression in 1929, Cambodia began to suffer, especially among rice cultivators whose falling incomes made then more than ever the victims of moneylenders. Industry was primarily designed to process raw materials for local use or for export. Immigration into Cambodia was considerable; and Cambodia became quite ethnically diverse. As in Burma and Malaysia, which were both under British rule, foreigners dominated the work force of the economy. Vietnamese, despite their privileged position, became laborers on rubber plantations. Soon, many Vietnamese immigrants began to play important roles in the colonial economy as fisherman and businessmen. The Chinese had been living in Cambodia for centuries, and they dominated commerce before the French arrival. Under the French, this status quo remained the same, but the French placed restrictions on the Chinese. Nonetheless, Chinese merchants and bankers in Cambodia developed commercial networks that extended throughout Indochina to China as well. [edit] Emergence of Khmer nationalism Unlike Vietnam, Cambodian nationalism was politically quiet during the early 1900s. This was probably so because of the reigning monarch and the way the French handled the monarchy. Khmer villages who were used to abuse of power believed that if the monarch was on the throne, Cambodia was fine as it was. At the same time, low literacy rates in Cambodia, which the French were reluctant to improve, stopped nationalist currents to spread as they were in Vietnam. However, Cambodian nationalism was emerging among the educated urban Khmer elite. When the French restored the monuments at Angkor Wat, the pride of many Cambodians' was awakened at their country and their past history. Many of the new urban educated elite were graduates of the Cambodian History department at Lycee Sisowath in Phnom Penh. There, resentment at the way Vietnamese students were favored resulted in a petition to King Monivong in the 1930s. Significantly, the first major nationalists, members of the Khmer Krom, were members of the Cambodian minority who lived in Vietnam. Son Ngoc Than and Pach Choeun began publishing Nagaravatta (Angkor Wat), the first Khmer newspaper. It mildly condemned French colonial policies, its corruption, its usury in rural areas, foreign domination of the economy, and also criticized the Vietnamese for their past imperialism and their privileged position in Indochina.
Flag of Cambodia under Japanese occupationThe Khmer were lucky in escaping the suffering endured by most other Southeast Asian peoples during World War II. After the establishment of the Vichy regime in France in 1940, Japanese forces moved into Vietnam and displaced French authority. In mid-1941, they entered Cambodia but allowed Vichy French colonial officials to remain at their administrative posts. The pro-Japanese regime in Thailand, headed by Field Marshal Phibunsongkhram, requested assurances from the Vichy regime that, in the event of an interruption of French sovereignty, Cambodian and Laotian territories formerly belong to Thailand would be returned to Bangkok's authority. The request was rejected. In December 1940 the French-Thai War erupted, and the Thai Burapha Army invaded Cambodia the following month. The French were hard-pressed to resist against the better-equipped Thai forces on the ground and in the air, but nevertheless managed to score a naval victory in the Gulf of Thailand . At this point, Tokyo intervened and compelled the French authorities to agree to a treaty ceding the province of Battambang and part of the province of Siemreab to Thailand in exchange for a small compensation. The Cambodians were allowed to retain Angkor. Thai aggression, however, had minimal impact on the lives of most Cambodians outside the north-western region. King Monivong died in April 1941. Although his son, Prince Monichao, had been considered the heir apparent, the French chose instead Norodom Sihanouk, the great grandson of King Norodom. Sihanouk was an ideal candidate from their point of view because of his youth (he was nineteen years old), his lack of experience, and his pliability. Japanese calls of "Asia for the Asiatics" found a receptive audience among Cambodian nationalists, although Tokyo's policy in Indochina was to leave the colonial government nominally in charge. When a prominent, politically active Buddhist monk, Hem Chieu, was arrested and unceremoniously defrocked by the French authorities in July 1942, the editors of Nagaravatta led a demonstration demanding his release. They, as well as other nationalists, apparently overestimated the Japanese willingness to back them, for the Vichy authorities quickly arrested the demonstrators and gave Pach Choeun, one of the Nagaravatta editors, a life sentence . The other editor, Son Ngoc Thanh, escaped from Phnom Penh and turned up the following year in Tokyo. In a desperate effort to enlist local support in the final months of the war, the Japanese dissolved the French colonial administration on March 9, 1945, and urged Cambodia to declare its independence within the Greater East Asia Co-Prosperity Sphere. Four days later, King Sihanouk decreed an independent Kampuchea (the original Khmer pronunciation of Cambodia). Son Ngoc Thanh returned from Tokyo in May, and he was appointed foreign minister. On August 15, 1945, the day Japan surrendered, a new government was established with Son Ngoc Thanh acting as prime minister. When an Allied force occupied Phnom Penh in October, Thanh was arrested for collaboration with the Japanese and was sent into exile in France to remain under house arrest. Some of his supporters went to north-western Cambodia, then still under Thai control, where they banded together as one faction in the Khmer Issarak movement, originally formed with Thai encouragement in the 1940s. [edit] Struggle for Khmer unity Cambodia's situation at the end of the war was chaotic. The Free French, under General Charles de Gaulle, were determined to recover Indochina, though they offered Cambodia and the other Inchochinese protectorates a carefully circumscribed measure of self-government. Convinced that they had a "civilizing mission," they envisioned Indochina's participation in a French Union of former colonies that shared the common experience of French culture. Neither the urban professional elites nor the common people, however, were attracted by this arrangement. For Cambodians of practically all walks of life, the brief period of independence, from March to October 1945, had been enjoyable. The lassitude of the Khmer was a thing of the past. In Phnom Penh, Sihanouk, acting as head of state, was placed in a delicate position of negotiating with the French for full independence while trying to neutralize party politicians and supporters of the Khmer Issarak and Viet Minh who considered him a French collaborator. During the tumultuous period between 1946 and 1953, Sihanouk displayed the remarkable aptitude for political survival that sustained him before and after his fall from power in March 1970. The Khmer Issarak was an extremely heterogeneous guerrilla movement, operating in the border areas. The group included indigenous leftists, Vietnamese leftists, anti-monarchical nationalists (Khmer Serei) loyal to Son Ngoc Thanh, and plain bandits taking advantage of the chaos to terrorize villagers. Though their fortunes rose and fell during the immediate postwar period (a major blow was the overthrow of a left-wing friendly government in Bangkok in 1947), by 1954 the Khmer Issarak operating with the Viet Minh by some estimates controlled as much as 50 percent of Cambodia's territory. In 1946, France allowed the Cambodians to form political parties and to hold elections for a Consultative Assembly that would advise the monarch on drafting the country's constitution. The two major parties were both headed by royal princes. The Democratic Party, led by Prince Sisowath Yuthevong, espoused immediate independence, democratic reforms, and parliamentary government. Its supporters were teachers, civil servants, politically active members of the Buddhist priesthood, and others whose opinions had been greatly influenced by the nationalistic appeals of Nagaravatta before it was closed down by the French in 1942. Many Democrats sympathized with the violent methods of the Khmer Issarak. The Liberal Party, led by Prince Norodom Norindeth, represented the interests of the old rural elites, including large landowners. They preferred continuing some form of the colonial relationship with France, and advocated gradual democratic reform. In the Consultative Assembly election held in September 1946, the Democrats won 50 of 67 seats. With a solid majority in the assembly, the Democrats drafted a constitution modeled on that of the French Fourth Republic. Power was concentrated in the hands of a popularly elected National Assembly. The king reluctantly proclaimed the new constitution on May 6, 1947. While it recognized him as the "spiritual head of the state," it reduced him to the status of a constitutional monarch, and it left unclear the extent to which he could play an active role in the politics of the nation. Sihanouk would turn this ambiguity to his advantage in later years, however. In the December 1947 elections for the National Assembly, the Democrats again won a large majority. Despite this, dissension within the party was rampant. Its founder, Sisowath Yuthevong, had died and no clear leader had emerged to succeed him. During the period 1948 to 1949, the Democrats appeared united only in their opposition to legislation sponsored by the king or his appointees. A major issue was the king's receptivity to independence within the French Union, proposed in a draft treaty offered by the French in late 1948. Following dissolution of the National Assembly in September 1949, agreement on the pact was reached through an exchange of letters between King Sihanouk and the French government. It went into effect two months later, though National Assembly ratification of the treaty was never secured. The treaty granted Cambodia what Sihanouk called "fifty percent independence": by it, the colonial relationship was formally ended, and the Cambodians were given control of most administrative functions. Cambodian armed forces were granted freedom of action within a self-governing autonomous zone comprising Battambang and Siemreab provinces, which had been recovered from Thailand after World War II, but which the French, hard-pressed elsewhere, did not have the resources to control. Cambodia was still required to coordinate foreign policy matters with the High Council of the French Union, however, and France retained a significant measure of control over the judicial system, finances, and customs. Control of wartime military operations outside the autonomous zone remained in French hands. France was also permitted to maintain military bases on Cambodian territory. In 1950 Cambodia was accorded diplomatic recognition by the United States and by most non-communist powers, but in Asia only Thailand and South Korea extended recognition. The Democrats won a majority in the second National Assembly election in September 1951, and they continued their policy of opposing the king on practically all fronts. In an effort to win greater popular approval, Sihanouk asked the French to release nationalist Son Ngoc Thanh from exile and to allow him to return to his country. He made a triumphant entry into Phnom Penh on October 29, 1951. It was not long, however, before he began demanding withdrawal of French troops from Cambodia. He reiterated this demand in early 1952 in Khmer Krok (Khmer Awake!) a weekly newspaper that he had founded. The newspaper was forced to cease publication in March, and Son Ngoc Thanh fled the capital with a few armed followers to join the Khmer Issarak. Branded alternately a communist and an agent of the United States Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) by Sihanouk, he remained in exile until Lon Nol established the Khmer Republic in 1970. [edit] The campaign for independence In June 1952, Sihanouk announced the dismissal of his cabinet, suspended the constitution, and assumed control of the government as prime minister. Then, without clear constitutional sanction, he dissolved the National Assembly and proclaimed martial law in January 1953. Sihanouk exercised direct rule for almost three years, from June 1952 until February 1955. After dissolution of the assembly, he created an Advisory Council to supplant the legislature and appointed his father, Norodom Suramarit, as regent. In March 1953, Sihanouk went to France. Ostensibly, he was traveling for his health; actually, he was mounting an intensive campaign to persuade the French to grant complete independence. The climate of opinion in Cambodia at the time was such that if he did not achieve full independence quickly, the people were likely to turn to Son Ngoc Thanh and the Khmer Issarak, who were fully committed to attaining that goal. At meetings with the French president and with other high officials, Sihanouk was suggested as being unduly "alarmist" about internal political conditions. The French also made the thinly veiled threat that, if he continued to be uncooperative, they might replace him. The trip appeared to be a failure, but on his way home by way of the United States, Canada, and Japan, Sihanouk publicized Cambodia's plight in the media. To further dramatize his "royal crusade for independence," Sihanouk, declaring that he would not return until the French gave assurances that full independence would be granted. He then left Phnom Penh in June to go into self-imposed exile in Thailand. Unwelcome in Bangkok, he moved to his royal villa near the ruins of Angkor in Siemreab Province. Siemreab, part of the autonomous military zone established in 1949, was commanded by Lieutenant Colonel Lon Nol, formerly a right-wing politician who was becoming a prominent, and in time would be an indispensable Sihanouk ally within the military. From his Siemreab base, the king and Lon Nol contemplated plans for resistance if the French did not meet their terms. Sihanouk was making a high-stakes gamble, for the French could easily have replaced him with a more pliable monarch; however, the military situation was deteriorating throughout Indochina, and the French government, on July 3, 1953, declared itself ready to grant full independence to the three states of Cambodia, Vietnam, and Laos. Sihanouk insisted on his own terms, which included full control of national defense, the police, the courts, and financial matters. The French yielded: the police and the judiciary were transferred to Cambodian control at the end of August, and in October the country assumed full command of its military forces. King Sihanouk, now a hero in the eyes of his people, returned to Phnom Penh in triumph, and independence day was celebrated on 9 November 1953. Control of residual matters affecting sovereignty, such as financial and budgetary affairs, passed to the new Cambodian state in 1954
Posted by
angV
at
1:51 AM
No comments:
Links to this post
Labels:
university
from wikipedia:khmer krom
Khmer Krom From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation, search Khmer Krom Total population
1,055,174 in Vietnam[1]
Regions with significant populations
Vietnam (Mekong River Delta)
Languages
Khmer, Vietnamese
Religion
Theravada Buddhism
The Khmer Krom (Khmer: , Vietnamese: Khơ Me Crộm) - Khmer people living in the Delta and the Lower Mekong area. Mostly regarded as the indigenous ethnic Khmer minority living in southern Vietnam. In Vietnamese, they are known as Khơ-me Crộm or Khơ-me dưới, which literally means “Khmer from below” (“below” referring to the lower areas of the Mekong Delta). Contents [hide] 1 Origins
2 History
3 Human Rights
4 Notes
5 External links
[edit] Origins The Khmer Krom are ethnic Khmer who inhabited that area long before the arrival of the Vietnamese. According to Vietnamese government figures (1999 census), there are 1,055,174 Khmer Krom in Vietnam. [edit] History Main article: History of Cambodia Beginning in the early 17th century, colonization of the area by Vietnamese settlers gradually isolated the Khmer of the Mekong Delta from their brethren in Cambodia proper and resulted in their becoming a minority in the delta. Prey Nokor was the most important commercial seaport to the Khmers. The city’s name was changed by Vietnam to Sài Gòn and then Hồ Chí Minh City. The loss of the city prevented the Cambodians access to the South China Sea. Subsequently, the Khmers' access to the sea was now limited to the Gulf of Thailand. It began as a small fishing village known as Prey Nokor. The area that the city now occupies was originally swampland, and was inhabited by Khmer people for centuries before the arrival of the Vietnamese. In 1623, King Chey Chettha II of Cambodia (1618-1628) allowed Vietnamese refugees fleeing the Trịnh-Nguyễn War in Vietnam to settle in the area of Prey Nokor, and to set up a custom house at Prey Nokor. Increasing waves of Vietnamese settlers, which the Cambodian kingdom, weakened because of war with Thailand, could not impede, slowly Vietnamized the area. In time, Prey Nokor became known as Saigon. In 1698, Nguyễn Hữu Cảnh, a Vietnamese noble, was sent by the Nguyen rulers of Huế to establish Vietnamese administrative structures in the area, thus detaching the area from Cambodia, which was not strong enough to intervene. Since 1698, the area has been firmly under Vietnamese administration. The Vietnamese became the majority population in most places[citation needed]. When independence was granted to French Indochina in 1954, the Mekong Delta was included in the state of South Vietnam, despite protests from Cambodia. In the 1970s, the Khmer Rouge regime attacked Vietnam in an attempt to reconquer those areas of the delta still predominantly inhabited by Khmer Krom people, but this military adventure was a total disaster and precipitated the invasion of Cambodia by the Vietnamese army and subsequent downfall of the Khmer Rouge, with Vietnam occupying Cambodia. Son Ngoc Thanh, the nationalist Cambodian, was a Khmer krom, born in Trà Vinh, Vietnam. Cambodia got independence in Geneva, 1954, through the Vietnamese struggle in the First Indochina War. In 1757, the Vietnamese colonized the provinces of Psar Dèk (renamed Sa Đéc in Vietnamese) and Moat Chrouk (vietnamized to Châu Đốc). [edit] Human Rights
The neutrality of this article is disputed. Please see the discussion on the talk page. Please do not remove this message until the dispute is resolved. (December 2007)
Flag of Khmers Kampuchea-Krom Federation (KKF)
Khmer Krom boatMany independent NGOs report the human rights of the Khmer Krom are still being violated by the Vietnamese government. Khmer Krom are reportedly forced to adopt Vietnamese family names and speak the Vietnamese language. You can use Google Web translator to translate [this page][1] to see that). {2} The education of the Khmer Krom is neglected and they face many hardships in everyday life, such as difficult access to Vietnamese health services (recent epidemics of blindness affecting children have been reported in the predominantly Khmer Krom areas of the Mekong delta[citation needed]), difficulty in practicing their religion (Khmer Krom are Theravada Buddhists, like Cambodian and Thai people, but unlike Vietnamese who are mostly Mahayana Buddhists or few Roman Catholics), difficulty in finding jobs outside of the fields, and social racism.[citation needed] The Khmer Krom are among the poorest segments of the population in southern Vietnam.[citation needed] Unlike other minority people groups of Vietnam, the Khmer Krom are largely unknown in the Western world, despite efforts by associations of exiled Khmer Krom such as the Khmer Kampuchea Krom Federation to publicize their issues with the Unrepresented Nations and Peoples Organisation. No Western government has raised the matter of the Khmer Krom’s human rights with the Vietnamese government. The Khmer Krom culture could become better known through its tourist sites in the Mekong Delta. Khmer Buddhist temples located in places such as Long An, Tien Giang, Vinh Long, Tra Vinh, Bac Lieu, and Soc Trang are now very popular as tourist destinations.[2] [edit] Notes
Posted by
angV
at
1:45 AM
No comments:
Links to this post
Labels:
university
from wikipedia:MAHABHARATA
Mahabharata From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to:
navigation ,
search This article is about the Sanskrit epic. For other uses, see
Mahabharata (disambiguation) . Manuscript illustration of the Battle of Kurukshetra The Mahabharata ( Sanskrit
Mahābhārata महाभारत) is one of the two major
Sanskrit
epics
of
ancient India , the other being the
Rāmāyaṇa . The epic is part of the Hindu
itihāsa
(or "history"), and forms an important part of
Hindu mythology . It is of immense importance to culture in the
Indian subcontinent , and is a major text of
Hinduism . Its discussion of human goals ( dharma
or duty,
artha
or purpose,
kāma , pleasure or desire and
moksha
or liberation) takes place in a long-standing tradition, attempting to explain the relationship of the individual to society and the world (the nature of the ' Self ') and the workings of
karma . The title may be translated as "the great tale of the
Bhārata
dynasty". According to the Mahabharata's own testimony it is extended from a shorter version simply called Bhārata of 24,000 verses. [1] Traditionally, the authorship of the Mahabharata is attributed to
Vyasa . There have been many attempts to unravel its historical growth and composition layers. Its earliest layers probably date back to the late
Vedic period
(ca. 8th c. BCE) [2]
and it probably reached its final form by the time the
Gupta period
began (ca. 4th c. CE). [3] With about one hundred thousand verses, long prose passages, and about 1.8 million words in total, the Mahabharata is the longest
epic poem
in the world. [4]
It is roughly ten times the length of the
Iliad
and
Odyssey
combined, [5]
roughly five times longer than Dante's
Divine Comedy , and about four times the length of the
Ramayana . Including the
Harivaṃśa , the Mahabharata has a total length of more than 90,000 verses. Contents[ hide ] 1 Scope 2 Textual history and structure 2.1 The 18 parvas 3 Historical context 4 Synopsis 4.1 The Older generations 4.2 The Pandava and Kaurava princes 4.3 Lākṣagṛha (The House of Lac) 4.4 Marriage to Draupadi 4.5 Indraprastha 4.6 The dice game 4.7 Exile and return 4.8 The battle at Kurukshetra 4.9 The end of the Pandavas 5 Versions, translations, and derivative works 5.1 Critical Edition 5.2 Modern interpretations 5.3 English translations 5.4 Abridged versions 6 Kuru family tree 7 Cultural influence 8 See also 9 Notes 10 References 11 External links // [ edit ] Scope Krishna ,
Arjuna
at
Kurukshetra , 18-19th century painting. Besides its epic narrative of the
Kurukshetra War
and the fates of the
Kauravas
and the
Pandavas , the Mahabharata contains much
philosophical
and devotional material, such as the Shrimad
Bhagavad Gita
(6.25-42) which has a very high level of philosophical and religious content, or a discussion of the four "goals of life" or
purusharthas
(12.161). The latter are enumerated as
dharma
(right action),
artha
(purpose),
kama
(pleasure), and
moksha
(liberation). The Mahabharata claims all-inclusiveness at the beginning of its first parva ("book"): "What is found here, may be found elsewhere. What is not found here, will not be found elsewhere." Among the principal works and stories that are a part of the Mahabharata are the following (often considered as works in their own right): the
Bhagavad Gita
in book 6 (Bhishmaparva): Krishna advises and teaches
Arjuna
when he is ridden with doubt. the story of
Damayanti , sometimes called (Nala and Damayanti) in book 3 (Aranyakaparva), a love story. An abbreviated version of the
Ramayana , in book 3 (Aranyakaparva) Rishyasringa , the horned boy and rishi, in book 3 (Aranyakaparva) Arshia Sattar states that the central theme of the Mahabharata, as well as the Ramayana, is respectively Krishna's and Ram's hidden divinity and its progressive revelation. [6] [ edit ] Textual history and structure Part of a series on Hindu scriptures Vedas Rigveda
·
Yajurveda
·
Samaveda
·
Atharvaveda Divisions Samhita
·
Brahmana
·
Aranyaka
·
Upanishad Upanishad Aitareya
·
Brihadaranyaka
·
Isha
·
Taittiriya
·
Chandogya
·
Kena
·
Maitri
·
Mundaka
·
Mandukya
·
Katha
·
Kaushitaki
·
Prashna
·
Shvetashvatara Vedanga Shiksha
·
Chandas
·
Vyakarana
·
Nirukta
·
Jyotisha
·
Kalpa Itihasa Mahabharata ·
Ramayana Other scriptures Smriti
·
Śruti
·
Bhagavad Gita
·
Purana
·
Manu Smriti
·
Agama
·
Pancharatra
·
Tantra
·
Akilathirattu
·
Sūtra
·
Stotra
·
Dharmashastra
·
Divya Prabandha
·
Tevaram
·
Ramacharitamanas
· Yoga Vasistha This box:
view
•
talk
•
edit The epic is traditionally ascribed to
Vyasa , who is also one of the major dynastic characters within the epic. The first section of the Mahabharata states that it was
Ganesha
who, at the request of Vyasa, wrote down the text to Vyasa's dictation. Ganesha is said to have agreed to write it only on condition that Vyasa never pause in his recitation. Vyasa agreed, provided Ganesha took the time to understand what was said before writing it down. The epic employs the
story within a story
structure, otherwise known as frametales, popular in many Indian religious and secular works. It is recited to the King
Janamejaya
who is the great-grandson of
Arjuna , by
Vaisampayana , a disciple of Vyasa. The recitation of Vaisampayana to Janamejaya is then recited again by a professional story teller named
Ugrasrava Sauti , many years later, to an assemblage of sages. It is usually thought that the full length of the Mahabharata has accreted over a long period.[ who? ] Research on the Mahabharata has put an enormous effort into recognizing and dating various layers within the text. The Mahabharata itself (1.1.61) distinguishes a core portion of 24,000 verses, the Bharata proper, as opposed to additional secondary material, while the
Ashvalayana Grhyasutra
(3.4.4) makes a similar distinction. According to the Adi-parva of the Mahabharata ( shlokas
81, 101-102), the text was originally 8,800 verses when it was composed by
Vyasa
and was known as the Jaya (Victory), which later became 24,000 verses in the Bharata recited by
Vaisampayana , and finally over 90,000 verses in the Mahabharata recited by
Ugrasrava Sauti . [7] The state of the text has been described by some early 20th century
Indologists
as unstructured and chaotic.
Hermann Oldenberg
(1922) supposed that the original poem must once have carried an immense "tragic force", but dismissed the full text as a "horrible chaos."[ citation needed ] The earliest known references to the Mahabharata and its core Bharata date back to the
Ashtadhyayi
( sutra
6.2.38) of
Pāṇini
(fl. 4th century BCE), and in the
Ashvalayana Grhyasutra
(3.4.4).[ citation needed ] This may suggest that the core 24,000 verses, known as the Bharata, as well as an early version of the extended Mahabharata, were composed by the 4th century BCE. Parts of the Jaya's original 8,800 verses possibly may date back as far as the 9th-8th century BCE. [2] The Mahabharata is presumed to predate the Greek epic
Iliad , and some episodes of the Mahabharata are
syncretistically
said to identify with the story of the Iliad.
Christian Lassen , in his Indische Alterthumskunde, supposed that the reference is ultimately to Dhritarashtra's sorrows, the laments of Gandhari and Draupadi, and the valor of Arjuna and Duryodhana or Karna. [8]
This interpretation, endorsed in such standard references as
Albrecht Weber 's History of Indian Literature, has often been repeated. [9] Later, the copper-plate inscription of the
Maharaja
Sharvanatha (533-534) from Khoh ( Satna
District,
Madhya Pradesh ) describes the Mahabharata as a "collection of 100,000 verses" (shatasahasri samhita). The
redaction
of this large body of text was carried out after formal principles, emphasizing the numbers 18 [10]
and 12. The addition of the latest parts may be dated by the absence of the Anushasana-parva from MS Spitzer, the oldest surviving Sanskrit philosophical manuscript dated to the first century, that contains among other things a list of the books in the Mahabharata. From this evidence, it is likely that the redaction into 18 books took place in the first century. An alternative division into 20 parvas appears to have co-existed for some time. The division into 100 sub-parvas (mentioned in Mbh. 1.2.70) is older, and most parvas are named after one of their constituent sub-parvas. The
Harivamsa
consists of the final two of the 100 sub-parvas, and was considered an appendix (khila) to the Mahabharata proper by the redactors of the 18 parvas.[ citation needed ] [ edit ] The 18 parvas The division into 18 parvas is as follows: Parva title sub-parvas contents 1 Adi Parva
(The Book of the Beginning) 1-19 How the Mahabharata came to be narrated by Sauti to the assembled rishis at Naimisharanya. The recital of the Mahabharata at the sarpasattra of Janamejaya by Vaishampayana at
Takṣaśilā . The history of the Bharata race is told in detail and the parva also traces history of the Bhrigu race. The birth and early life of the Kuru princes. (adi means first) 2 Sabha Parva
(The Book of the Assembly Hall) 20-28 Maya Danava erects the palace and court (sabha), at
Indraprastha . Life at the court, Yudhishthira's Rajasuya Yajna, the game of dice, and the eventual exile of the Pandavas. 3 Vana Parva
also Aranyaka-parva, Aranya-parva (The Book of the Forest) 29-44 The twelve years of exile in the forest (aranya). 4 Virata Parva
(The Book of Virata) 45-48 The year in incognito spent at the court of
Virata . 5 Udyoga Parva
(The Book of the Effort) 49-59 Preparations for war and efforts to bring about peace between the Kurus and the Pandavas which eventually fail (udyoga means effort or work). 6 Bhishma Parva
(The Book of Bhishma) 60-64 The first part of the great battle, with
Bhishma
as commander for the Kauravas and his fall on the bed of arrows. 7 Drona Parva
(The Book of Drona) 65-72 The battle continues, with
Drona
as commander. This is the major book of the war. Most of the great warriors on both sides are dead by the end of this book. 8 Karna Parva
(The Book of Karna) 73 The battle again, with
Karna
as commander. 9 Shalya Parva
(The Book of Shalya) 74-77 The last day of the battle, with
Shalya
as commander. Also told in detail is the pilgrimage of Balarama to the fords of the river Saraswati and the mace fight between Bhima and Duryodhana which ends the war, since Bima kills Duryodhana by smashing him on the thighs with a mace. 10 Sauptika Parva
(The Book of the Sleeping Warriors) 78-80 Ashvattama , Kripa and Kritavarma kill the remaining Pandava army in their sleep. Only 7 warriors remain on the Pandava side and 3 on the Kaurava side. 11 Stri Parva
(The Book of the Women) 81-85 Gandhari , Kunti and the women (stri) of the Kurus and Pandavas lament the dead. 12 Shanti Parva
(The Book of Peace) 86-88 The crowning of
Yudhisthira
as king of Hastinapura, and instructions from
Bhishma
for the newly anointed king on society, economics and politics. This is the longest book of the Mahabharata (shanti means peace). 13 Anushasana Parva
(The Book of the Instructions) 89-90 The final instructions (anushasana) from Bhishma. 14 Ashvamedhika Parva
(The Book of the Horse Sacrifice) [11] 91-92 The royal ceremony of the
Ashvamedha
(Horse sacrifice) conducted by Yudhisthira. The world conquest by Arjuna. The Anugita is told by Krishna to Arjuna. 15 Ashramavasika Parva
(The Book of the Hermitage) 93-95 The eventual deaths of Dhritarashtra, Gandhari and Kunti in a forest fire when they are living in a hermitage in the Himalayas. Vidura predeceases them and Sanjaya on Dhritarashtra's bidding goes to live in the higher Himalayas. 16 Mausala Parva
(The Book of the Clubs) 96 The infighting between the
Yadavas
with maces (mausala) and the eventual destruction of the Yadavas. 17 Mahaprasthanika Parva
(The Book of the Great Journey) 97 The great journey of Yudhisthira and his brothers across the whole country and finally their ascent of the great Himalayas where each Pandava falls except for Yudhisthira. 18 Svargarohana Parva
(The Book of the Ascent to Heaven) 98 Yudhisthira's final test and the return of the Pandavas to the spiritual world ( svarga ). khila Harivamsa Parva
(The Book of the Genealogy of Hari) 99-100 Life of
Krishna
which is not covered in the 18 parvas of the Mahabharata. The Adi-parva includes the snake sacrifice (sarpasattra) of Janamejaya, explaining its motivation, detailing why all snakes in existence were intended to be destroyed, and why in spite of this, there are still snakes in existence. This sarpasattra material was often considered an independent tale added to a version of the Mahabharata by "thematic attraction" (Minkowski 1991), and considered to have particularly close connection to
Vedic
( Brahmana ) literature, in particular the
Panchavimsha Brahmana
which describes the sarpasattra as originally performed by snakes, among which are snakes named Dhrtarashtra and Janamejaya, two main characters of the Mahabharata's sarpasattra, and Takshaka, the name of a snake also in the Mahabharata. The
Shatapatha Brahmana
gives an account of an
Ashvamedha
performed by Janamejaya Parikshit. According to what one character says at Mbh. 1.1.50, there were three versions of the epic, beginning with Manu (1.1.27), Astika (1.3, sub-parva 5) or Vasu (1.57), respectively. These versions would correspond to the addition of one and then another 'frame' settings of dialogues. The Vasu version would omit the frame settings and begin with the account of the birth of Vyasa. The astika version would add the sarpasattra and ashvamedha material from Brahmanical literature, introduce the name Mahabharata, and identify Vyasa as the work's author. The redactors of these additions were probably
Pancharatrin
scholars who according to Oberlies (1998) likely retained control over the text until its final redaction. Mention of the
Huna
in the Bhishma-parva however appears to imply that this parva may have been edited around the 4th century. [ edit ] Historical context Further information:
Epic India Map of "Bharatvarsha" (Kingdom of India) during the time of Mahabharata and
Ramayana . (Title and location names are in
English .) The historicity of the
Kurukshetra War
is unclear. Some historians like A L Basham estimate the date of the Kurukshetra war to
Iron Age India
of the
10th century BCE . [12] Other historians like M Witzel have also corroborated that the general setting of the epic has a historical precedent in the Iron Age ( Vedic ) India, where the
Kuru
kingdom was the center of political power during roughly 1200 to 800 BCE. [13]
A dynastic conflict of the period could have been the inspiration for the Jaya, the core on which the Mahabharata corpus was built, with a climactic battle eventually coming to be viewed as an epochal event. Puranic literature
presents genealogical lists associated with the Mahabharata narrative. The evidence of the Puranas is of two kinds. Of the first kind, there is the direct statement that there were 1015 (or 1050) years between the birth of Parikshit (Arjuna's grandson) and the accession of Mahapadma Nanda, commonly dated to 382 BCE, which would yield an estimate of about 1400 BCE for the Bharata battle. [14]
However, this would imply improbably long reigns on average for the kings listed in the genealogies. [15]
Of the second kind are analyses of parallel genealogies in the Puranas between the times of Adhisimakrishna (Parikshit's great-grandson) and Mahapadma Nanda. Pargiter accordingly estimated 26 generations by averaging 10 different dynastic lists and, assuming 18 years for the average duration of a reign, arrived at an estimate of 850 BCE for Adhisimakrishna, and thus approximately 950 BCE for the Bharata battle. [16] B. B. Lal
used the same approach with a more conservative assumption of the average reign to estimate a date of 836 BCE, and correlated this with archaeological evidence from
Painted Grey Ware
sites, the association being strong between PGW artifacts and places mentioned in the epic. [17] Attempts to date the events using methods of
archaeoastronomy
have produced, depending on which passages are chosen and how they are interpreted, estimates ranging from the late 4th to the mid 2nd millennium BCE. [18]
The late 4th millennium date has a precedent in the calculation of the Kaliyuga epoch, based on planetary conjunctions, by
Aryabhata
(6th century). His date of February 18 3102 BCE has become widespread in Indian tradition (for example, the
Aihole inscription
of
Pulikeshi II , dated to Saka 556 = 634 CE, claims that 3735 years have elapsed since the Bharata battle. [19] ) Another traditional school of astronomers and historians, represented by
Vriddha-Garga ,
Varahamihira
(author of the
Brhatsamhita ) and
Kalhana
(author of the
Rajatarangini ), place the Bharata war 653 years after the Kaliyuga epoch, corresponding to 2449 BCE. [20] Other evidence exists for estimating the date of the Mahabharata war. These include: Aihole inscriptions, Hisse Borala inscriptions of Deva Sena and records from the Greek ambassador
Megasthenes . P.V. Vartak provides an extensive summary of the different evidences available based for dating the Mahabharata war. [21] Some scholars have noted parallels between the Mahabharata, the
The Rape of the Sabine Women
in
Roman mythology , and the
Æsir–Vanir War
in
Norse mythology . [22] [ edit ] Synopsis The core story of the work is that of a dynastic struggle for the throne of
Hastinapura , the kingdom ruled by the
Kuru
clan. The two collateral branches of the family that participate in the struggle are the
Kaurava
and the
Pandava . Although the Kaurava is the senior branch of the family,
Duryodhana , the eldest Kaurava, is younger than
Yudhisthira , the eldest Pandava. Both Duryodhana and Yudhisthira claim to the first in line to inherit the throne. The struggle culminates in the
great battle of Kurukshetra , in which the
Pandavas
are ultimately victorious. The battle produces complex conflicts of kinship and friendship, instances of family loyalty and duty taking precedence over what is right, as well as the converse. The Mahabharata itself ends with the death of
Krishna , and the subsequent end of his dynasty, and ascent of the Pandava brothers to heaven. It also marks the beginning of the Hindu age of
Kali
( Kali Yuga ), the fourth and final age of mankind, where the great values and noble ideas have crumbled, and man is heading toward the complete dissolution of right action, morality and virtue. [ edit ] The Older generations Bhishma's Oath, a paintingby
Raja Ravi Varma Janamejaya's ancestor
Shantanu , the king of
Hastinapura
has a short-lived marriage with the goddess
Ganga
and has a son, Devavrata (later to be called
Bhishma ), who becomes the heir apparent. Many years later, when the king goes hunting, he sees
Satyavati , the daughter of a fisherman and asks her father for her hand. Her father refuses to consent to the marriage unless Shantanu promises to make any future son of Satyavati the king upon his death. To solve the king's dilemma, Devavrata agrees not to take the throne. As the fisherman is not sure about the prince's children honouring the promise, Devavrata also takes a vow of lifelong celibacy to guarantee his father's promise. Shantanu has two sons by Satyavati,
Chitrangada
and
Vichitravirya . Upon Shantanu's death, Chitrangada becomes king. He lived a very short uneventful life and dies. Vichitravirya, the younger son, rules
Hastinapura . Meanwhile, The King of
Kāśī
arranges a swayamvara for his three daughters. However, he does not invite the royal family of Hastinapur. In order to arrange the marriage of the young Vichitravirya, Bhishma goes to Kāśī for a
swayamvara
of the three princesses Amba, Ambika and Ambalika, uninvited. He abducts them on account of his strength, rather than their will in his anger. Ambika and Ambalika consent to be married to Vichtravirya. The oldest princess Amba, informs Bhishma she wished to marry Shalvaraj (king of Shalva) whom Bhishma defeated at their swayamvar. Bhishma lets her leave and marry Shalvaraj but Shalvaraj refuses to marry her, smarting at his humiliation under Bhishma. Amba then returns to marry Bhishma but he refuses due to his vow of celibacy. Amba then becomes enraged and becomes Bhishma's bitter enemy, holding him responsible for her plight. Later she is reborn to King
Drupada
as
Shikhandi
(or Shikhandini) and causes Bhishma's fall with help of
Arjuna
in the battle of Kurukshetra. [ edit ] The Pandava and Kaurava princes When Vichitravirya dies young without any heirs, Satyavati asks her first son Vyasa to
father children on
the widows. The elder, Ambika, shuts her eyes when she sees him and her son
Dhritarashtra
is born blind. Ambalika turns pale and bloodless, and her son
Pandu
is born pale and unhealthy (the term Pandu may also mean 'jaundiced'
[1] ). Due to the physical challenges of the first two children, Satyavati askes Vyasa to try once again. However, Ambika and Ambalika send their maid instead, to Vyasa's room. Vyasa fathers a third son
Vidura , by the maid. He is born healthy and grows up to be one of the wisest characters in the Mahabharat. He serves as Prime Minister (Mahamantri or Mahatma) to King Pandu and King Dhritarashtra. When the princes grow up, Dhritarashtra is about to be crowned king by Bhishma. However, Vidura intervenes and uses his knowledge of politics to come to the conclusion that a blind person cannot be the king. This is because a blind man cannot keep control and protection of his subjects. The throne is given to Pandu because of Dhritarashtra's blindness. Pandu marries twice, to
Kunti
and
Madri . Dhritarashtra marries
Gandhari , a princess from Gandhara, who blindfolds herself so that she may feel the pain that her husband feels. Her brother
Shakuni
is enraged by this and vows to take revenge on the Kuru family. One day, when Pandu is relaxing in the forest, he hears the sound of a wild animal. He shoots an arrow in the direction of the sound. However the arrow hits sage
Kindama . The sage curses him that if he engages in a sexual act, he will die. Pandu then retires to the forest along with his two wives, and his brother Dhritarashtra rules thereafter, despite his blindness. The central figure is Yudhishthira ; the two to his left are Bhima and Arjuna . Nakula and Sahadeva , the twins, are to his right. Their wife, at far right, is Draupadi.
Deogarh , Dasavatar temple. Pandu's older queen Kunti however, had been given a boon by Sage Durvasa that she could invoke any god she wanted to using a special mantra. Kunti asks
Dharma
the god of justice,
Vayu
the god of the wind, and
Indra
the Lord of the heavens for sons; by using the boon granted by Durvasa. She gives birth to three sons
Yudhisthira ,
Bhima , and
Arjuna
through these gods. Kunti shares her mantra with the younger queen
Madri , who bears the twins
Nakula
and
Sahadeva
through the
Ashwini
twins. However Pandu and Madri, indulge in sex and Pandu dies. Madri
dies on his funeral pyre
out of remorse. Kunti raises the five brothers, who are from then usually referred to as the
Pandava
brothers. Dhritarashtra has a hundred sons through
Gandhari , all born after the birth of Yudhishtira. These are the
Kaurava
brothers, the eldest being
Duryodhana , and the second
Dushasana . Other Kaurava brothers were Vikarna and Sukarna. The rivalry and enmity between them and the Pandava brothers, from their youth and into manhood leads to the
Kurukshetra
war. [ edit ] Lākṣagṛha (The House of Lac) After the deaths of their mother (Madri) and father (Pandu); the Pandavas and their mother Kunti come back to the palace of Hastinapur. Yudhisthira is made Crown Prince by Dhritarashtra, under considerable pressure from his kingdom. Dhritarashtra wanted his own son Duryodhana to become king and lets his ambition get in the way of preserving justice. Shakuni, Duryodhana and Dusasana plot to get rid of the Pandavas. Shakuni calls the architect Purvanchan and makes him build a palace out of flammable materials like lac and ghee. He then arranges for the Pandavas and the Queen Mother Kunti to stay there, with the intention of setting it alight. However, the Pandavas are warned by their wise uncle,
Vidura , who sends them a miner to dig a tunnel. They are able to escape to safety and go into hiding. Back at Hastinapur, the Pandavas and Kunti are assumed dead. [23] [ edit ] Marriage to Draupadi Arjuna piercing the eye of the fish During the course of their hiding the Pandavas learn of a
swayamvara
which is taking place for the hand of the
Pāñcāla
princess
Draupadī . The Pandavas enter the competition in disguise as Brahmins. The task is to string a mighty steel bow and shoot a target on the ceiling, which is the eye of a moving artificial fish, while looking at its reflection in oil below. Most of the princes fail, many being unable to lift the bow. Arjuna succeeds however. The Pandavas return home and inform their mother that Arjuna has won a competition and to look at what they have brought back. Without looking, Kunti asks them to share whatever it is Arjuna has won among themselves. Thus Draupadi ends up being the
wife of all five brothers . [ edit ] Indraprastha After the wedding, the Pandava brothers are invited back to Hastinapura. The Kuru family elders and relatives negotiate and broker a split of the kingdom, with the Pandavas obtaining a new territory. Yudhishtira has a new capital built for this territory at
Indraprastha
which is now Delhi. Neither the Pandava nor Kaurava sides are happy with the arrangement however. Shortly after this, Arjuna elopes with and then marries Krishna's sister,
Subhadra . Yudhishtira wishes to establish his position as king; he seeks Krishna's advice. Krishna advises him, and after due preparation and the elimination of some opposition, Yudhishthira carries out the rājasūya yagna ceremony; he is thus recognised as pre-eminent among kings. The Pandavas have a new palace built for them, by
Maya
the
Danava . [24]
They invite their Kaurava cousins to Indraprastha. Duryodhana walks round the palace, and mistakes a glossy floor for water, and will not step in. After being told of his error, he then sees a pond, and assumes it is not water and falls in.
Draupadi
laughs at him and ridicules him by saying that this is because of his blind father
Dhritrashtra . He then decides to avenge his humiliation. [ edit ] The dice game Draupadi humiliated. Painting by
Raja Ravi Varma . Shakuni, Duryodhana's uncle, now arranges a dice game, playing against Yudhishtira with loaded dice. Yudhishtira loses all his wealth, then his kingdom. He then even gambles his brothers, himself, and finally his wife into servitude. The jubilant Kauravas insult the Pandavas in their helpless state and even try to disrobe Draupadi in front of the entire court, but her honour is saved by Krishna who miraculously creates lengths of cloth to replace the ones being removed. Dhritarashtra, Bhishma, and the other elders are aghast at the situation, but Duryodhana is adamant that there is no place for two crown princes in Hastinapura. Against his wishes Dhritarashtra orders for another dice game. The Pandavas are required to go into exile for 12 years, and in the 13th year must remain hidden. If discovered by the Kauravas, they will be forced into exile for another 12 years. [ edit ] Exile and return The Pandavas spend thirteen years in exile; many adventures occur during this time. They also prepare alliances for a possible future conflict. They spend their final year in disguise in the court of
Virata , and are discovered just after the end of the year. At the end of their exile, they try to negotiate a return to Indraprastha. However, this fails, as Duryodhana objects that they were discovered while in hiding, and that no return of their kingdom was agreed. War becomes inevitable. [ edit ] The battle at Kurukshetra Main article:
Kurukshetra war Bhishma on his death-bed of arrows with the
Pandavas
and
Krishna
- Folio from the
Razmnama (1761 - 1763), Persian translation of the Mahabharata, commissioned by Mughal emperor
Akbar . The Pandavas are dressed in Persian armour and robes. [25] The two sides summon vast armies to their help, and line up at
Kurukshetra
for a war. The Kingdoms of
Panchala ,
Dwaraka ,
Kasi ,
Kekaya ,
Magadha ,
Matsya ,
Chedi ,
Pandya ,
Telinga , and the
Yadus
of
Mathura
and some other clans like the
Parama Kambojas
were allied with the
Pandavas . The allies of the
Kauravas
included the kings of Pragjyotisha,
Anga ,
Kekaya , Sindhudesa (including
Sindhus ,
Sauviras
and Sivis), Mahishmati,
Avanti
in Madhyadesa,
Madra ,
Gandhara ,
Bahlikas , Kambojas
and many others. Prior to war being declared,
Balarama , had expressed his unhappiness at the developing conflict, and left to go on
pilgrimage , thus he does not take part in the battle itself. Krishna takes part in a non-combatant role, as charioteer for Arjuna. Before the battle, Arjuna, seeing himself facing his great grandfather
Bhishma
and his teacher
Drona
on the other side, has doubts about the battle and he fails to lift his Gāndeeva bow. Krishna wakes him up to his call of duty in the famous
Bhagavad Gita
section of the epic. Though initially sticking to chivalrous notions of warfare, both sides soon adopt dishonourable tactics. At the end of the 18-day battle, only the Pandavas, Satyaki, Kripa, Ashwathama, Kritavarma, Yuyutsu and Krishna survive. [ edit ] The end of the Pandavas After "seeing" the carnage,
Gandhari
who had lost all her sons, curses Krishna to be a witness to a similar annihilation of his family, for though divine and capable of stopping the war, he had not done so. Krishna accepts the curse, which bears fruit 36 years later. The Pandavas who had ruled their kingdom meanwhile, decide to renounce everything. Clad in skins and rags they retire to the
Himalaya
and climb towards heaven in their bodily form. A stray dog travels with them. One by one the brothers and Draupadi fall on their way. As each one stumbles, Yudhishitra gives the rest the reason for their fall (Draupadi was partial to Arjuna, Nakula and Sahadeva were vain and proud of their looks, Bhima and Arjuna were proud of their strength and archery skills, respectively). Only the virtuous Yudhisthira, who had tried everything to prevent the carnage, and the dog remain. The dog reveals himself to be the god Yama (also known as Yama Dharmaraja), and then takes him to the underworld where he sees his siblings and wife. After explaining the nature of the test, Yama takes Yudhishtira back to heaven and explains that it was necessary to expose him to the underworld because (Rajyante narakam dhruvam) any ruler has to visit the underworld at least once. Yama then assures him that his siblings and wife would join him in heaven after they had been exposed to the underworld for measures of time according to their vices. Arjuna's grandson
Parikshit
rules after them and dies bitten by a snake. His furious son, Janamejaya, decides to perform a snake sacrifice ( sarpasattra ) in order to destroy the snakes. It is at this sacrifice that the tale of his ancestors is narrated to him. [ edit ] Versions, translations, and derivative works Many regional versions of the work developed over time, mostly differing only in minor details, or with verses or subsidiary stories being added. These include some versions from outside the Indian subcontinent, such as the
Kakawin Bharatayuddha
from
Java . The plays of the
Tamil
street theatre,
terukkuttu , use themes from the Tamil language versions of Mahabharata, focusing on Draupadi. [26] [ edit ] Critical Edition Between 1919 and 1966, scholars at the
Bhandarkar Oriental Research Institute ,
Pune , compared the various manuscripts of the epic from India and abroad and produced the Critical Edition of the Mahabharata, on 13,000 pages in 19 volumes, followed by the Harivamsha in another two volumes and six index volumes. This is the text that is usually used in current Mahabharata studies for reference. [27]
This work is sometimes called the 'Pune' or 'Poona' edition of the Mahabharata. [ edit ] Modern interpretations Krishna as depicted in
Yakshagana
from
Karnataka
which is based largely on stories of Mahabharata The
Hindi
poet
Maithili Sharan Gupt
has written an epic poem on two days of the Mahabharata battle called
Jayadratha Vadha
(The death of
Jayadratha ). Another Hindi poet
Ramdhari Singh 'Dinkar'
has written epic-poetry on various themes of Mahabharata, such as: Kurukshetra and Rashmirathi. The
Kannada
novelist
S.L. Bhyrappa
wrote a novel in Kannada (now translated to most Indian languages and English) titled
Parva , giving a new interpretation to the story of Mahabharata. He tried to understand the social and ethical practices in these regions and correlate them with the story of Mahabharata. Malayalam writer
M. T. Vasudevan Nair 's novel
Randamoozham
(English:
Second Turn ) tells the Mahabharata from
Bhima 's point of View. Mrityunjay (English: Triumph Over Death) written by
Shivaji Sawant
is a Novel with
Karna
as the central character of Mahabharata. In
Indian cinema , several film versions of the epic exist, dating back from 1920. [28]
The internationally-acclaimed
parallel
Bengali film
director
Satyajit Ray
also intended to direct a theatrical adaptation of the epic, but the project was never realized during his lifetime. [29] In the late 1980s, the
Mahabharat TV series , directed by Ravi Chopra, [30]
was televised and shown on India's national television ( Doordarshan ). In the
Western world , a well-known presentation of the epic is
Peter Brook 's nine-hour play, which premiered in
Avignon
in 1985, and its five-hour movie version
The Mahabharata (1989) . [31] Among literary reinterpretations of the Mahabharata the most famous is arguably
Sashi Tharoor 's major work entitled " The Great Indian Novel ", an involved literary, philosophical, and political novel which superimposes the major moments of post-independence
India
in the 20th century onto the driving events of the Mahabharata epic. Mahabharata was also reinterpreted by
Shyam Benegal
in
Kalyug . Kalyug is a modern-day replaying of the Mahabharata. [32] Western interpretations of the Mahabharata include
William Buck's
Mahabharata and
Elizabeth Seeger's
Five Sons of King Pandu. [ edit ] English translations The first complete English translation was the
Victorian
prose version by
Kisari Mohan Ganguli , [33]
published between 1883 and 1896 (Munshiram Manoharlal Publishers) and by M. N. Dutt (Motilal Banarsidass Publishers). Most critics consider the translation by Ganguli to be faithful to the original text. The complete text of Ganguli's translation is in the
public domain
and is available online. [34] Another English prose translation of the full epic, based on the Critical Edition, is also in progress, published by
University Of Chicago
Press, initiated by Chicago Indologist J. A. B. van Buitenen (books 1-5) and, following a 20-year hiatus caused by the death of van Buitenen, is being continued by D. Gitomer of
DePaul University
(book 6), J. L. Fitzgerald of Brown University (books 11-13) and W. Doniger of the University of Chicago (books 14-18). A poetic translation of the full epic into English, done by the poet
P. Lal
is complete, and in 2005 began being published by
Writers Workshop , Calcutta. The P. Lal translation is a non-rhyming verse-by-verse rendering, and is the only edition in any language to include all slokas in all recensions of the work (not just those in the Critical Edition). The completion of the publishing project is scheduled for 2010. Sixteen of the eighteen volumes are now available: A project to translate the full epic into English prose, translated by various hands, began to appear in 2005 from the
Clay Sanskrit Library , published by
New York University
Press. The translation is based not on the Critical Edition but on the version known to the commentator Nīlakaṇṭha. Currently available are 15 volumes of the projected 32-volume edition. [ edit ] Abridged versions Many condensed versions, abridgements and novelistic prose retellings of the complete epic have been published in English, including work by
William Buck ,
R.K. Narayan ,
C. Rajagopalachari ,
Krishna Dharma , Romesh C. Dutt, and Bharadvaja Sarma. A Kawi version is found on the Indonesian island of Bali and was translated by Dr.
I. Gusti Putu Phalgunadi . Of the eighteen parvas, only eight Kawi manuscripts remain. [ edit ] Kuru family tree Kuru a Gangā Shāntanu a Satyavati Pārāshara Bhishma Vyāsa Ambikā Vichitravirya Ambālikā Chitrāngada Dhritarāshtra b Gāndhāri Shakuni Kunti Pāndu b Mādri Karna c Yudhishthira d Bhima d Arjuna d Subhadrā Nakula d Sahadeva d Duryodhana e Dussalā Dushāsana (98 sons) Abhimanyu Uttarā Parikshit Janamejaya Key to Symbols Male: blue border Female: red border Pandavas : green box Kauravas : yellow box Notes a:
Santanu
was a king of the Kuru dynasty or kingdom, and was some generations removed from any ancestor called
Kuru . His marriage to
Ganga
preceded his marriage to
Satyavati . b:
Pandu
and
Dhritarashtra
were fathered by
Vyasa
after
Vichitravirya 's death. Dhritarashtra, Pandu and Vidura were the sons of Vyasa with Ambika, Ambalika and a maid servant respectively. c:
Karna
was born to
Kunti
through her invocation of
Surya , before her marriage to
Pandu . d: The
Pandavas
were acknowledged sons of
Pandu
but were begotten by
Kunti 's invocation of various deities. They all married
Draupadi
(not shown in tree). In particular: Yama
or
Dharma
(Dharmadeva), for
Yudhishtira Vayu , for
Bhima Indra
for
Arjuna The twins,
Nakula
and
Sahadeva
were born to
Madri
through her invocation of the
The Ashvins e:
Duryodhana
and his siblings were born at the same time, and they were of the same generation as their
Pandava
cousins. The birth order of siblings is correctly shown in the family tree (from left to right), except for
Vyasa
and
Bhishma
whose birth order is not described, and Vichitravirya who was born after them. The fact that
Ambika
and
Ambalika
are sisters is not shown in the family tree. The birth of Duryodhana took place after the birth of Karna, Yudhishtira and Bhima, but before the birth of the remaining Pandava brothers. Some siblings of the characters shown here have been left out for clarity; these include
Chitrangada , the eldest brother of Vichitravirya.
Vidura , half-brother to Dhritarashtra and Pandu. The family tree continues through the descendants of
Arjuna , and these have also not been shown here. [ edit ] Cultural influence In the Bhagavd Gita, Krishna explains to Arjuna his duties as a warrior and prince and elaborates on different
Yogic [35]
and
Vedantic
philosophies, with examples and analogies. This has led Mahabharata From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to:
navigation ,
search This article is about the Sanskrit epic. For other uses, see
Mahabharata (disambiguation) . Manuscript illustration of the Battle of Kurukshetra The Mahabharata ( Sanskrit
Mahābhārata महाभारत) is one of the two major
Sanskrit
epics
of
ancient India , the other being the
Rāmāyaṇa . The epic is part of the Hindu
itihāsa
(or "history"), and forms an important part of
Hindu mythology . It is of immense importance to culture in the
Indian subcontinent , and is a major text of
Hinduism . Its discussion of human goals ( dharma
or duty,
artha
or purpose,
kāma , pleasure or desire and
moksha
or liberation) takes place in a long-standing tradition, attempting to explain the relationship of the individual to society and the world (the nature of the ' Self ') and the workings of
karma . The title may be translated as "the great tale of the
Bhārata
dynasty". According to the Mahabharata's own testimony it is extended from a shorter version simply called Bhārata of 24,000 verses. [1] Traditionally, the authorship of the Mahabharata is attributed to
Vyasa . There have been many attempts to unravel its historical growth and composition layers. Its earliest layers probably date back to the late
Vedic period
(ca. 8th c. BCE) [2]
and it probably reached its final form by the time the
Gupta period
began (ca. 4th c. CE). [3] With about one hundred thousand verses, long prose passages, and about 1.8 million words in total, the Mahabharata is the longest
epic poem
in the world. [4]
It is roughly ten times the length of the
Iliad
and
Odyssey
combined, [5]
roughly five times longer than Dante's
Divine Comedy , and about four times the length of the
Ramayana . Including the
Harivaṃśa , the Mahabharata has a total length of more than 90,000 verses. Contents[ hide ] 1 Scope 2 Textual history and structure 2.1 The 18 parvas 3 Historical context 4 Synopsis 4.1 The Older generations 4.2 The Pandava and Kaurava princes 4.3 Lākṣagṛha (The House of Lac) 4.4 Marriage to Draupadi 4.5 Indraprastha 4.6 The dice game 4.7 Exile and return 4.8 The battle at Kurukshetra 4.9 The end of the Pandavas 5 Versions, translations, and derivative works 5.1 Critical Edition 5.2 Modern interpretations 5.3 English translations 5.4 Abridged versions 6 Kuru family tree 7 Cultural influence 8 See also 9 Notes 10 References 11 External links // [ edit ] Scope Krishna ,
Arjuna
at
Kurukshetra , 18-19th century painting. Besides its epic narrative of the
Kurukshetra War
and the fates of the
Kauravas
and the
Pandavas , the Mahabharata contains much
philosophical
and devotional material, such as the Shrimad
Bhagavad Gita
(6.25-42) which has a very high level of philosophical and religious content, or a discussion of the four "goals of life" or
purusharthas
(12.161). The latter are enumerated as
dharma
(right action),
artha
(purpose),
kama
(pleasure), and
moksha
(liberation). The Mahabharata claims all-inclusiveness at the beginning of its first parva ("book"): "What is found here, may be found elsewhere. What is not found here, will not be found elsewhere." Among the principal works and stories that are a part of the Mahabharata are the following (often considered as works in their own right): the
Bhagavad Gita
in book 6 (Bhishmaparva): Krishna advises and teaches
Arjuna
when he is ridden with doubt. the story of
Damayanti , sometimes called (Nala and Damayanti) in book 3 (Aranyakaparva), a love story. An abbreviated version of the
Ramayana , in book 3 (Aranyakaparva) Rishyasringa , the horned boy and rishi, in book 3 (Aranyakaparva) Arshia Sattar states that the central theme of the Mahabharata, as well as the Ramayana, is respectively Krishna's and Ram's hidden divinity and its progressive revelation. [6] [ edit ] Textual history and structure Part of a series on Hindu scriptures Vedas Rigveda
·
Yajurveda
·
Samaveda
·
Atharvaveda Divisions Samhita
·
Brahmana
·
Aranyaka
·
Upanishad Upanishad Aitareya
·
Brihadaranyaka
·
Isha
·
Taittiriya
·
Chandogya
·
Kena
·
Maitri
·
Mundaka
·
Mandukya
·
Katha
·
Kaushitaki
·
Prashna
·
Shvetashvatara Vedanga Shiksha
·
Chandas
·
Vyakarana
·
Nirukta
·
Jyotisha
·
Kalpa Itihasa Mahabharata ·
Ramayana Other scriptures Smriti
·
Śruti
·
Bhagavad Gita
·
Purana
·
Manu Smriti
·
Agama
·
Pancharatra
·
Tantra
·
Akilathirattu
·
Sūtra
·
Stotra
·
Dharmashastra
·
Divya Prabandha
·
Tevaram
·
Ramacharitamanas
· Yoga Vasistha This box:
view
•
talk
•
edit The epic is traditionally ascribed to
Vyasa , who is also one of the major dynastic characters within the epic. The first section of the Mahabharata states that it was
Ganesha
who, at the request of Vyasa, wrote down the text to Vyasa's dictation. Ganesha is said to have agreed to write it only on condition that Vyasa never pause in his recitation. Vyasa agreed, provided Ganesha took the time to understand what was said before writing it down. The epic employs the
story within a story
structure, otherwise known as frametales, popular in many Indian religious and secular works. It is recited to the King
Janamejaya
who is the great-grandson of
Arjuna , by
Vaisampayana , a disciple of Vyasa. The recitation of Vaisampayana to Janamejaya is then recited again by a professional story teller named
Ugrasrava Sauti , many years later, to an assemblage of sages. It is usually thought that the full length of the Mahabharata has accreted over a long period.[ who? ] Research on the Mahabharata has put an enormous effort into recognizing and dating various layers within the text. The Mahabharata itself (1.1.61) distinguishes a core portion of 24,000 verses, the Bharata proper, as opposed to additional secondary material, while the
Ashvalayana Grhyasutra
(3.4.4) makes a similar distinction. According to the Adi-parva of the Mahabharata ( shlokas
81, 101-102), the text was originally 8,800 verses when it was composed by
Vyasa
and was known as the Jaya (Victory), which later became 24,000 verses in the Bharata recited by
Vaisampayana , and finally over 90,000 verses in the Mahabharata recited by
Ugrasrava Sauti . [7] The state of the text has been described by some early 20th century
Indologists
as unstructured and chaotic.
Hermann Oldenberg
(1922) supposed that the original poem must once have carried an immense "tragic force", but dismissed the full text as a "horrible chaos."[ citation needed ] The earliest known references to the Mahabharata and its core Bharata date back to the
Ashtadhyayi
( sutra
6.2.38) of
Pāṇini
(fl. 4th century BCE), and in the
Ashvalayana Grhyasutra
(3.4.4).[ citation needed ] This may suggest that the core 24,000 verses, known as the Bharata, as well as an early version of the extended Mahabharata, were composed by the 4th century BCE. Parts of the Jaya's original 8,800 verses possibly may date back as far as the 9th-8th century BCE. [2] The Mahabharata is presumed to predate the Greek epic
Iliad , and some episodes of the Mahabharata are
syncretistically
said to identify with the story of the Iliad.
Christian Lassen , in his Indische Alterthumskunde, supposed that the reference is ultimately to Dhritarashtra's sorrows, the laments of Gandhari and Draupadi, and the valor of Arjuna and Duryodhana or Karna. [8]
This interpretation, endorsed in such standard references as
Albrecht Weber 's History of Indian Literature, has often been repeated. [9] Later, the copper-plate inscription of the
Maharaja
Sharvanatha (533-534) from Khoh ( Satna
District,
Madhya Pradesh ) describes the Mahabharata as a "collection of 100,000 verses" (shatasahasri samhita). The
redaction
of this large body of text was carried out after formal principles, emphasizing the numbers 18 [10]
and 12. The addition of the latest parts may be dated by the absence of the Anushasana-parva from MS Spitzer, the oldest surviving Sanskrit philosophical manuscript dated to the first century, that contains among other things a list of the books in the Mahabharata. From this evidence, it is likely that the redaction into 18 books took place in the first century. An alternative division into 20 parvas appears to have co-existed for some time. The division into 100 sub-parvas (mentioned in Mbh. 1.2.70) is older, and most parvas are named after one of their constituent sub-parvas. The
Harivamsa
consists of the final two of the 100 sub-parvas, and was considered an appendix (khila) to the Mahabharata proper by the redactors of the 18 parvas.[ citation needed ] [ edit ] The 18 parvas The division into 18 parvas is as follows: Parva title sub-parvas contents 1 Adi Parva
(The Book of the Beginning) 1-19 How the Mahabharata came to be narrated by Sauti to the assembled rishis at Naimisharanya. The recital of the Mahabharata at the sarpasattra of Janamejaya by Vaishampayana at
Takṣaśilā . The history of the Bharata race is told in detail and the parva also traces history of the Bhrigu race. The birth and early life of the Kuru princes. (adi means first) 2 Sabha Parva
(The Book of the Assembly Hall) 20-28 Maya Danava erects the palace and court (sabha), at
Indraprastha . Life at the court, Yudhishthira's Rajasuya Yajna, the game of dice, and the eventual exile of the Pandavas. 3 Vana Parva
also Aranyaka-parva, Aranya-parva (The Book of the Forest) 29-44 The twelve years of exile in the forest (aranya). 4 Virata Parva
(The Book of Virata) 45-48 The year in incognito spent at the court of
Virata . 5 Udyoga Parva
(The Book of the Effort) 49-59 Preparations for war and efforts to bring about peace between the Kurus and the Pandavas which eventually fail (udyoga means effort or work). 6 Bhishma Parva
(The Book of Bhishma) 60-64 The first part of the great battle, with
Bhishma
as commander for the Kauravas and his fall on the bed of arrows. 7 Drona Parva
(The Book of Drona) 65-72 The battle continues, with
Drona
as commander. This is the major book of the war. Most of the great warriors on both sides are dead by the end of this book. 8 Karna Parva
(The Book of Karna) 73 The battle again, with
Karna
as commander. 9 Shalya Parva
(The Book of Shalya) 74-77 The last day of the battle, with
Shalya
as commander. Also told in detail is the pilgrimage of Balarama to the fords of the river Saraswati and the mace fight between Bhima and Duryodhana which ends the war, since Bima kills Duryodhana by smashing him on the thighs with a mace. 10 Sauptika Parva
(The Book of the Sleeping Warriors) 78-80 Ashvattama , Kripa and Kritavarma kill the remaining Pandava army in their sleep. Only 7 warriors remain on the Pandava side and 3 on the Kaurava side. 11 Stri Parva
(The Book of the Women) 81-85 Gandhari , Kunti and the women (stri) of the Kurus and Pandavas lament the dead. 12 Shanti Parva
(The Book of Peace) 86-88 The crowning of
Yudhisthira
as king of Hastinapura, and instructions from
Bhishma
for the newly anointed king on society, economics and politics. This is the longest book of the Mahabharata (shanti means peace). 13 Anushasana Parva
(The Book of the Instructions) 89-90 The final instructions (anushasana) from Bhishma. 14 Ashvamedhika Parva
(The Book of the Horse Sacrifice) [11] 91-92 The royal ceremony of the
Ashvamedha
(Horse sacrifice) conducted by Yudhisthira. The world conquest by Arjuna. The Anugita is told by Krishna to Arjuna. 15 Ashramavasika Parva
(The Book of the Hermitage) 93-95 The eventual deaths of Dhritarashtra, Gandhari and Kunti in a forest fire when they are living in a hermitage in the Himalayas. Vidura predeceases them and Sanjaya on Dhritarashtra's bidding goes to live in the higher Himalayas. 16 Mausala Parva
(The Book of the Clubs) 96 The infighting between the
Yadavas
with maces (mausala) and the eventual destruction of the Yadavas. 17 Mahaprasthanika Parva
(The Book of the Great Journey) 97 The great journey of Yudhisthira and his brothers across the whole country and finally their ascent of the great Himalayas where each Pandava falls except for Yudhisthira. 18 Svargarohana Parva
(The Book of the Ascent to Heaven) 98 Yudhisthira's final test and the return of the Pandavas to the spiritual world ( svarga ). khila Harivamsa Parva
(The Book of the Genealogy of Hari) 99-100 Life of
Krishna
which is not covered in the 18 parvas of the Mahabharata. The Adi-parva includes the snake sacrifice (sarpasattra) of Janamejaya, explaining its motivation, detailing why all snakes in existence were intended to be destroyed, and why in spite of this, there are still snakes in existence. This sarpasattra material was often considered an independent tale added to a version of the Mahabharata by "thematic attraction" (Minkowski 1991), and considered to have particularly close connection to
Vedic
( Brahmana ) literature, in particular the
Panchavimsha Brahmana
which describes the sarpasattra as originally performed by snakes, among which are snakes named Dhrtarashtra and Janamejaya, two main characters of the Mahabharata's sarpasattra, and Takshaka, the name of a snake also in the Mahabharata. The
Shatapatha Brahmana
gives an account of an
Ashvamedha
performed by Janamejaya Parikshit. According to what one character says at Mbh. 1.1.50, there were three versions of the epic, beginning with Manu (1.1.27), Astika (1.3, sub-parva 5) or Vasu (1.57), respectively. These versions would correspond to the addition of one and then another 'frame' settings of dialogues. The Vasu version would omit the frame settings and begin with the account of the birth of Vyasa. The astika version would add the sarpasattra and ashvamedha material from Brahmanical literature, introduce the name Mahabharata, and identify Vyasa as the work's author. The redactors of these additions were probably
Pancharatrin
scholars who according to Oberlies (1998) likely retained control over the text until its final redaction. Mention of the
Huna
in the Bhishma-parva however appears to imply that this parva may have been edited around the 4th century. [ edit ] Historical context Further information:
Epic India Map of "Bharatvarsha" (Kingdom of India) during the time of Mahabharata and
Ramayana . (Title and location names are in
English .) The historicity of the
Kurukshetra War
is unclear. Some historians like A L Basham estimate the date of the Kurukshetra war to
Iron Age India
of the
10th century BCE . [12] Other historians like M Witzel have also corroborated that the general setting of the epic has a historical precedent in the Iron Age ( Vedic ) India, where the
Kuru
kingdom was the center of political power during roughly 1200 to 800 BCE. [13]
A dynastic conflict of the period could have been the inspiration for the Jaya, the core on which the Mahabharata corpus was built, with a climactic battle eventually coming to be viewed as an epochal event. Puranic literature
presents genealogical lists associated with the Mahabharata narrative. The evidence of the Puranas is of two kinds. Of the first kind, there is the direct statement that there were 1015 (or 1050) years between the birth of Parikshit (Arjuna's grandson) and the accession of Mahapadma Nanda, commonly dated to 382 BCE, which would yield an estimate of about 1400 BCE for the Bharata battle. [14]
However, this would imply improbably long reigns on average for the kings listed in the genealogies. [15]
Of the second kind are analyses of parallel genealogies in the Puranas between the times of Adhisimakrishna (Parikshit's great-grandson) and Mahapadma Nanda. Pargiter accordingly estimated 26 generations by averaging 10 different dynastic lists and, assuming 18 years for the average duration of a reign, arrived at an estimate of 850 BCE for Adhisimakrishna, and thus approximately 950 BCE for the Bharata battle. [16] B. B. Lal
used the same approach with a more conservative assumption of the average reign to estimate a date of 836 BCE, and correlated this with archaeological evidence from
Painted Grey Ware
sites, the association being strong between PGW artifacts and places mentioned in the epic. [17] Attempts to date the events using methods of
archaeoastronomy
have produced, depending on which passages are chosen and how they are interpreted, estimates ranging from the late 4th to the mid 2nd millennium BCE. [18]
The late 4th millennium date has a precedent in the calculation of the Kaliyuga epoch, based on planetary conjunctions, by
Aryabhata
(6th century). His date of February 18 3102 BCE has become widespread in Indian tradition (for example, the
Aihole inscription
of
Pulikeshi II , dated to Saka 556 = 634 CE, claims that 3735 years have elapsed since the Bharata battle. [19] ) Another traditional school of astronomers and historians, represented by
Vriddha-Garga ,
Varahamihira
(author of the
Brhatsamhita ) and
Kalhana
(author of the
Rajatarangini ), place the Bharata war 653 years after the Kaliyuga epoch, corresponding to 2449 BCE. [20] Other evidence exists for estimating the date of the Mahabharata war. These include: Aihole inscriptions, Hisse Borala inscriptions of Deva Sena and records from the Greek ambassador
Megasthenes . P.V. Vartak provides an extensive summary of the different evidences available based for dating the Mahabharata war. [21] Some scholars have noted parallels between the Mahabharata, the
The Rape of the Sabine Women
in
Roman mythology , and the
Æsir–Vanir War
in
Norse mythology . [22] [ edit ] Synopsis The core story of the work is that of a dynastic struggle for the throne of
Hastinapura , the kingdom ruled by the
Kuru
clan. The two collateral branches of the family that participate in the struggle are the
Kaurava
and the
Pandava . Although the Kaurava is the senior branch of the family,
Duryodhana , the eldest Kaurava, is younger than
Yudhisthira , the eldest Pandava. Both Duryodhana and Yudhisthira claim to the first in line to inherit the throne. The struggle culminates in the
great battle of Kurukshetra , in which the
Pandavas
are ultimately victorious. The battle produces complex conflicts of kinship and friendship, instances of family loyalty and duty taking precedence over what is right, as well as the converse. The Mahabharata itself ends with the death of
Krishna , and the subsequent end of his dynasty, and ascent of the Pandava brothers to heaven. It also marks the beginning of the Hindu age of
Kali
( Kali Yuga ), the fourth and final age of mankind, where the great values and noble ideas have crumbled, and man is heading toward the complete dissolution of right action, morality and virtue. [ edit ] The Older generations Bhishma's Oath, a paintingby
Raja Ravi Varma Janamejaya's ancestor
Shantanu , the king of
Hastinapura
has a short-lived marriage with the goddess
Ganga
and has a son, Devavrata (later to be called
Bhishma ), who becomes the heir apparent. Many years later, when the king goes hunting, he sees
Satyavati , the daughter of a fisherman and asks her father for her hand. Her father refuses to consent to the marriage unless Shantanu promises to make any future son of Satyavati the king upon his death. To solve the king's dilemma, Devavrata agrees not to take the throne. As the fisherman is not sure about the prince's children honouring the promise, Devavrata also takes a vow of lifelong celibacy to guarantee his father's promise. Shantanu has two sons by Satyavati,
Chitrangada
and
Vichitravirya . Upon Shantanu's death, Chitrangada becomes king. He lived a very short uneventful life and dies. Vichitravirya, the younger son, rules
Hastinapura . Meanwhile, The King of
Kāśī
arranges a swayamvara for his three daughters. However, he does not invite the royal family of Hastinapur. In order to arrange the marriage of the young Vichitravirya, Bhishma goes to Kāśī for a
swayamvara
of the three princesses Amba, Ambika and Ambalika, uninvited. He abducts them on account of his strength, rather than their will in his anger. Ambika and Ambalika consent to be married to Vichtravirya. The oldest princess Amba, informs Bhishma she wished to marry Shalvaraj (king of Shalva) whom Bhishma defeated at their swayamvar. Bhishma lets her leave and marry Shalvaraj but Shalvaraj refuses to marry her, smarting at his humiliation under Bhishma. Amba then returns to marry Bhishma but he refuses due to his vow of celibacy. Amba then becomes enraged and becomes Bhishma's bitter enemy, holding him responsible for her plight. Later she is reborn to King
Drupada
as
Shikhandi
(or Shikhandini) and causes Bhishma's fall with help of
Arjuna
in the battle of Kurukshetra. [ edit ] The Pandava and Kaurava princes When Vichitravirya dies young without any heirs, Satyavati asks her first son Vyasa to
father children on
the widows. The elder, Ambika, shuts her eyes when she sees him and her son
Dhritarashtra
is born blind. Ambalika turns pale and bloodless, and her son
Pandu
is born pale and unhealthy (the term Pandu may also mean 'jaundiced'
[1] ). Due to the physical challenges of the first two children, Satyavati askes Vyasa to try once again. However, Ambika and Ambalika send their maid instead, to Vyasa's room. Vyasa fathers a third son
Vidura , by the maid. He is born healthy and grows up to be one of the wisest characters in the Mahabharat. He serves as Prime Minister (Mahamantri or Mahatma) to King Pandu and King Dhritarashtra. When the princes grow up, Dhritarashtra is about to be crowned king by Bhishma. However, Vidura intervenes and uses his knowledge of politics to come to the conclusion that a blind person cannot be the king. This is because a blind man cannot keep control and protection of his subjects. The throne is given to Pandu because of Dhritarashtra's blindness. Pandu marries twice, to
Kunti
and
Madri . Dhritarashtra marries
Gandhari , a princess from Gandhara, who blindfolds herself so that she may feel the pain that her husband feels. Her brother
Shakuni
is enraged by this and vows to take revenge on the Kuru family. One day, when Pandu is relaxing in the forest, he hears the sound of a wild animal. He shoots an arrow in the direction of the sound. However the arrow hits sage
Kindama . The sage curses him that if he engages in a sexual act, he will die. Pandu then retires to the forest along with his two wives, and his brother Dhritarashtra rules thereafter, despite his blindness. The central figure is Yudhishthira ; the two to his left are Bhima and Arjuna . Nakula and Sahadeva , the twins, are to his right. Their wife, at far right, is Draupadi.
Deogarh , Dasavatar temple. Pandu's older queen Kunti however, had been given a boon by Sage Durvasa that she could invoke any god she wanted to using a special mantra. Kunti asks
Dharma
the god of justice,
Vayu
the god of the wind, and
Indra
the Lord of the heavens for sons; by using the boon granted by Durvasa. She gives birth to three sons
Yudhisthira ,
Bhima , and
Arjuna
through these gods. Kunti shares her mantra with the younger queen
Madri , who bears the twins
Nakula
and
Sahadeva
through the
Ashwini
twins. However Pandu and Madri, indulge in sex and Pandu dies. Madri
dies on his funeral pyre
out of remorse. Kunti raises the five brothers, who are from then usually referred to as the
Pandava
brothers. Dhritarashtra has a hundred sons through
Gandhari , all born after the birth of Yudhishtira. These are the
Kaurava
brothers, the eldest being
Duryodhana , and the second
Dushasana . Other Kaurava brothers were Vikarna and Sukarna. The rivalry and enmity between them and the Pandava brothers, from their youth and into manhood leads to the
Kurukshetra
war. [ edit ] Lākṣagṛha (The House of Lac) After the deaths of their mother (Madri) and father (Pandu); the Pandavas and their mother Kunti come back to the palace of Hastinapur. Yudhisthira is made Crown Prince by Dhritarashtra, under considerable pressure from his kingdom. Dhritarashtra wanted his own son Duryodhana to become king and lets his ambition get in the way of preserving justice. Shakuni, Duryodhana and Dusasana plot to get rid of the Pandavas. Shakuni calls the architect Purvanchan and makes him build a palace out of flammable materials like lac and ghee. He then arranges for the Pandavas and the Queen Mother Kunti to stay there, with the intention of setting it alight. However, the Pandavas are warned by their wise uncle,
Vidura , who sends them a miner to dig a tunnel. They are able to escape to safety and go into hiding. Back at Hastinapur, the Pandavas and Kunti are assumed dead. [23] [ edit ] Marriage to Draupadi Arjuna piercing the eye of the fish During the course of their hiding the Pandavas learn of a
swayamvara
which is taking place for the hand of the
Pāñcāla
princess
Draupadī . The Pandavas enter the competition in disguise as Brahmins. The task is to string a mighty steel bow and shoot a target on the ceiling, which is the eye of a moving artificial fish, while looking at its reflection in oil below. Most of the princes fail, many being unable to lift the bow. Arjuna succeeds however. The Pandavas return home and inform their mother that Arjuna has won a competition and to look at what they have brought back. Without looking, Kunti asks them to share whatever it is Arjuna has won among themselves. Thus Draupadi ends up being the
wife of all five brothers . [ edit ] Indraprastha After the wedding, the Pandava brothers are invited back to Hastinapura. The Kuru family elders and relatives negotiate and broker a split of the kingdom, with the Pandavas obtaining a new territory. Yudhishtira has a new capital built for this territory at
Indraprastha
which is now Delhi. Neither the Pandava nor Kaurava sides are happy with the arrangement however. Shortly after this, Arjuna elopes with and then marries Krishna's sister,
Subhadra . Yudhishtira wishes to establish his position as king; he seeks Krishna's advice. Krishna advises him, and after due preparation and the elimination of some opposition, Yudhishthira carries out the rājasūya yagna ceremony; he is thus recognised as pre-eminent among kings. The Pandavas have a new palace built for them, by
Maya
the
Danava . [24]
They invite their Kaurava cousins to Indraprastha. Duryodhana walks round the palace, and mistakes a glossy floor for water, and will not step in. After being told of his error, he then sees a pond, and assumes it is not water and falls in.
Draupadi
laughs at him and ridicules him by saying that this is because of his blind father
Dhritrashtra . He then decides to avenge his humiliation. [ edit ] The dice game Draupadi humiliated. Painting by
Raja Ravi Varma . Shakuni, Duryodhana's uncle, now arranges a dice game, playing against Yudhishtira with loaded dice. Yudhishtira loses all his wealth, then his kingdom. He then even gambles his brothers, himself, and finally his wife into servitude. The jubilant Kauravas insult the Pandavas in their helpless state and even try to disrobe Draupadi in front of the entire court, but her honour is saved by Krishna who miraculously creates lengths of cloth to replace the ones being removed. Dhritarashtra, Bhishma, and the other elders are aghast at the situation, but Duryodhana is adamant that there is no place for two crown princes in Hastinapura. Against his wishes Dhritarashtra orders for another dice game. The Pandavas are required to go into exile for 12 years, and in the 13th year must remain hidden. If discovered by the Kauravas, they will be forced into exile for another 12 years. [ edit ] Exile and return The Pandavas spend thirteen years in exile; many adventures occur during this time. They also prepare alliances for a possible future conflict. They spend their final year in disguise in the court of
Virata , and are discovered just after the end of the year. At the end of their exile, they try to negotiate a return to Indraprastha. However, this fails, as Duryodhana objects that they were discovered while in hiding, and that no return of their kingdom was agreed. War becomes inevitable. [ edit ] The battle at Kurukshetra Main article:
Kurukshetra war Bhishma on his death-bed of arrows with the
Pandavas
and
Krishna
- Folio from the
Razmnama (1761 - 1763), Persian translation of the Mahabharata, commissioned by Mughal emperor
Akbar . The Pandavas are dressed in Persian armour and robes. [25] The two sides summon vast armies to their help, and line up at
Kurukshetra
for a war. The Kingdoms of
Panchala ,
Dwaraka ,
Kasi ,
Kekaya ,
Magadha ,
Matsya ,
Chedi ,
Pandya ,
Telinga , and the
Yadus
of
Mathura
and some other clans like the
Parama Kambojas
were allied with the
Pandavas . The allies of the
Kauravas
included the kings of Pragjyotisha,
Anga ,
Kekaya , Sindhudesa (including
Sindhus ,
Sauviras
and Sivis), Mahishmati,
Avanti
in Madhyadesa,
Madra ,
Gandhara ,
Bahlikas , Kambojas
and many others. Prior to war being declared,
Balarama , had expressed his unhappiness at the developing conflict, and left to go on
pilgrimage , thus he does not take part in the battle itself. Krishna takes part in a non-combatant role, as charioteer for Arjuna. Before the battle, Arjuna, seeing himself facing his great grandfather
Bhishma
and his teacher
Drona
on the other side, has doubts about the battle and he fails to lift his Gāndeeva bow. Krishna wakes him up to his call of duty in the famous
Bhagavad Gita
section of the epic. Though initially sticking to chivalrous notions of warfare, both sides soon adopt dishonourable tactics. At the end of the 18-day battle, only the Pandavas, Satyaki, Kripa, Ashwathama, Kritavarma, Yuyutsu and Krishna survive. [ edit ] The end of the Pandavas After "seeing" the carnage,
Gandhari
who had lost all her sons, curses Krishna to be a witness to a similar annihilation of his family, for though divine and capable of stopping the war, he had not done so. Krishna accepts the curse, which bears fruit 36 years later. The Pandavas who had ruled their kingdom meanwhile, decide to renounce everything. Clad in skins and rags they retire to the
Himalaya
and climb towards heaven in their bodily form. A stray dog travels with them. One by one the brothers and Draupadi fall on their way. As each one stumbles, Yudhishitra gives the rest the reason for their fall (Draupadi was partial to Arjuna, Nakula and Sahadeva were vain and proud of their looks, Bhima and Arjuna were proud of their strength and archery skills, respectively). Only the virtuous Yudhisthira, who had tried everything to prevent the carnage, and the dog remain. The dog reveals himself to be the god Yama (also known as Yama Dharmaraja), and then takes him to the underworld where he sees his siblings and wife. After explaining the nature of the test, Yama takes Yudhishtira back to heaven and explains that it was necessary to expose him to the underworld because (Rajyante narakam dhruvam) any ruler has to visit the underworld at least once. Yama then assures him that his siblings and wife would join him in heaven after they had been exposed to the underworld for measures of time according to their vices. Arjuna's grandson
Parikshit
rules after them and dies bitten by a snake. His furious son, Janamejaya, decides to perform a snake sacrifice ( sarpasattra ) in order to destroy the snakes. It is at this sacrifice that the tale of his ancestors is narrated to him. [ edit ] Versions, translations, and derivative works Many regional versions of the work developed over time, mostly differing only in minor details, or with verses or subsidiary stories being added. These include some versions from outside the Indian subcontinent, such as the
Kakawin Bharatayuddha
from
Java . The plays of the
Tamil
street theatre,
terukkuttu , use themes from the Tamil language versions of Mahabharata, focusing on Draupadi. [26] [ edit ] Critical Edition Between 1919 and 1966, scholars at the
Bhandarkar Oriental Research Institute ,
Pune , compared the various manuscripts of the epic from India and abroad and produced the Critical Edition of the Mahabharata, on 13,000 pages in 19 volumes, followed by the Harivamsha in another two volumes and six index volumes. This is the text that is usually used in current Mahabharata studies for reference. [27]
This work is sometimes called the 'Pune' or 'Poona' edition of the Mahabharata. [ edit ] Modern interpretations Krishna as depicted in
Yakshagana
from
Karnataka
which is based largely on stories of Mahabharata The
Hindi
poet
Maithili Sharan Gupt
has written an epic poem on two days of the Mahabharata battle called
Jayadratha Vadha
(The death of
Jayadratha ). Another Hindi poet
Ramdhari Singh 'Dinkar'
has written epic-poetry on various themes of Mahabharata, such as: Kurukshetra and Rashmirathi. The
Kannada
novelist
S.L. Bhyrappa
wrote a novel in Kannada (now translated to most Indian languages and English) titled
Parva , giving a new interpretation to the story of Mahabharata. He tried to understand the social and ethical practices in these regions and correlate them with the story of Mahabharata. Malayalam writer
M. T. Vasudevan Nair 's novel
Randamoozham
(English:
Second Turn ) tells the Mahabharata from
Bhima 's point of View. Mrityunjay (English: Triumph Over Death) written by
Shivaji Sawant
is a Novel with
Karna
as the central character of Mahabharata. In
Indian cinema , several film versions of the epic exist, dating back from 1920. [28]
The internationally-acclaimed
parallel
Bengali film
director
Satyajit Ray
also intended to direct a theatrical adaptation of the epic, but the project was never realized during his lifetime. [29] In the late 1980s, the
Mahabharat TV series , directed by Ravi Chopra, [30]
was televised and shown on India's national television ( Doordarshan ). In the
Western world , a well-known presentation of the epic is
Peter Brook 's nine-hour play, which premiered in
Avignon
in 1985, and its five-hour movie version
The Mahabharata (1989) . [31] Among literary reinterpretations of the Mahabharata the most famous is arguably
Sashi Tharoor 's major work entitled " The Great Indian Novel ", an involved literary, philosophical, and political novel which superimposes the major moments of post-independence
India
in the 20th century onto the driving events of the Mahabharata epic. Mahabharata was also reinterpreted by
Shyam Benegal
in
Kalyug . Kalyug is a modern-day replaying of the Mahabharata. [32] Western interpretations of the Mahabharata include
William Buck's
Mahabharata and
Elizabeth Seeger's
Five Sons of King Pandu. [ edit ] English translations The first complete English translation was the
Victorian
prose version by
Kisari Mohan Ganguli , [33]
published between 1883 and 1896 (Munshiram Manoharlal Publishers) and by M. N. Dutt (Motilal Banarsidass Publishers). Most critics consider the translation by Ganguli to be faithful to the original text. The complete text of Ganguli's translation is in the
public domain
and is available online. [34] Another English prose translation of the full epic, based on the Critical Edition, is also in progress, published by
University Of Chicago
Press, initiated by Chicago Indologist J. A. B. van Buitenen (books 1-5) and, following a 20-year hiatus caused by the death of van Buitenen, is being continued by D. Gitomer of
DePaul University
(book 6), J. L. Fitzgerald of Brown University (books 11-13) and W. Doniger of the University of Chicago (books 14-18). A poetic translation of the full epic into English, done by the poet
P. Lal
is complete, and in 2005 began being published by
Writers Workshop , Calcutta. The P. Lal translation is a non-rhyming verse-by-verse rendering, and is the only edition in any language to include all slokas in all recensions of the work (not just those in the Critical Edition). The completion of the publishing project is scheduled for 2010. Sixteen of the eighteen volumes are now available: A project to translate the full epic into English prose, translated by various hands, began to appear in 2005 from the
Clay Sanskrit Library , published by
New York University
Press. The translation is based not on the Critical Edition but on the version known to the commentator Nīlakaṇṭha. Currently available are 15 volumes of the projected 32-volume edition. [ edit ] Abridged versions Many condensed versions, abridgements and novelistic prose retellings of the complete epic have been published in English, including work by
William Buck ,
R.K. Narayan ,
C. Rajagopalachari ,
Krishna Dharma , Romesh C. Dutt, and Bharadvaja Sarma. A Kawi version is found on the Indonesian island of Bali and was translated by Dr.
I. Gusti Putu Phalgunadi . Of the eighteen parvas, only eight Kawi manuscripts remain. [ edit ] Kuru family tree Kuru a Gangā Shāntanu a Satyavati Pārāshara Bhishma Vyāsa Ambikā Vichitravirya Ambālikā Chitrāngada Dhritarāshtra b Gāndhāri Shakuni Kunti Pāndu b Mādri Karna c Yudhishthira d Bhima d Arjuna d Subhadrā Nakula d Sahadeva d Duryodhana e Dussalā Dushāsana (98 sons) Abhimanyu Uttarā Parikshit Janamejaya Key to Symbols Male: blue border Female: red border Pandavas : green box Kauravas : yellow box Notes a:
Santanu
was a king of the Kuru dynasty or kingdom, and was some generations removed from any ancestor called
Kuru . His marriage to
Ganga
preceded his marriage to
Satyavati . b:
Pandu
and
Dhritarashtra
were fathered by
Vyasa
after
Vichitravirya 's death. Dhritarashtra, Pandu and Vidura were the sons of Vyasa with Ambika, Ambalika and a maid servant respectively. c:
Karna
was born to
Kunti
through her invocation of
Surya , before her marriage to
Pandu . d: The
Pandavas
were acknowledged sons of
Pandu
but were begotten by
Kunti 's invocation of various deities. They all married
Draupadi
(not shown in tree). In particular: Yama
or
Dharma
(Dharmadeva), for
Yudhishtira Vayu , for
Bhima Indra
for
Arjuna The twins,
Nakula
and
Sahadeva
were born to
Madri
through her invocation of the
The Ashvins e:
Duryodhana
and his siblings were born at the same time, and they were of the same generation as their
Pandava
cousins. The birth order of siblings is correctly shown in the family tree (from left to right), except for
Vyasa
and
Bhishma
whose birth order is not described, and Vichitravirya who was born after them. The fact that
Ambika
and
Ambalika
are sisters is not shown in the family tree. The birth of Duryodhana took place after the birth of Karna, Yudhishtira and Bhima, but before the birth of the remaining Pandava brothers. Some siblings of the characters shown here have been left out for clarity; these include
Chitrangada , the eldest brother of Vichitravirya.
Vidura , half-brother to Dhritarashtra and Pandu. The family tree continues through the descendants of
Arjuna , and these have also not been shown here. [ edit ] Cultural influence In the Bhagavd Gita, Krishna explains to Arjuna his duties as a warrior and prince and elaborates on different
Yogic [35]
and
Vedantic
philosophies, with examples and analogies. This has led
Posted by
angV
at
1:40 AM
No comments:
Links to this post
Labels:
university
Older Posts
Home
Subscribe to:
Posts (Atom)
Search This Blog
Loading...
UNIVERSITY
www.rufa.edu.kh
Labels
news
(2)
university
(3)
vocation
(1)
Followers
Blog Archive
Blog Archive
January (5)
December (2)
About Me
angV
I love architecture and I want my construction comfort people around the globe
View my complete profile