world city: Rohtak
world city
Information regarding various cities in india.
Thursday, February 3, 2011
Rohtak
Pronunciation   ( help · info )  ( Hindi :  रोहतक ), ( Punjabi :  ਰੋਹਤਕ ) is the Heart City of Haryana, located 70 km North-West of the national capital  New Delhi  and 210 km South of the state capital  Chandigarh , at the National Highway 10. With India's top B-School  Indian Institute of Management ,  Maharishi Dayanand University  (ranked 58th in the nation),  Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences  (ranked Among Top 10 in the Nation), the city has become an educational hub for North India.
Ancient Evidence of Rohtak City is found in the  Surya Siddhanta  from the following Sanskrit  lines, describing the  Lankojjayini Rekha , which is a line from the North Pole to the South Pole and falling on three major cities, one of which is Rohtak.[ edit ] History nglish Transliteration:- Raakshasaalaya devouka sshailayo madhyagata sootraga Roheetakamavanteecha, tathaa, sannihitam sarah From the above  Shloka , Roheetaka means present day Rohtak. Avanti is present day Ujjain  while  sarah  is identified as  Kurukshetra , which was once a lagoon called Shyamanta panchak . According to the story in the Surya Siddhanta and the Mahabharata, the King  Kuru  ploughed the land beneath the lagoon when it dried up because of a calamity. This indicates that Rohtak is one of the oldest cities in India, perhaps as old as Swarna Lanka  of  Raavana , Ujjayini- Ujjain  and even  Varanasi . The district derives its name from its main town, Rohtak. This spelling is said to be a correction of Rohtashgarh, a name still applied to the ruined sites of two older sites, one lying immediately north of the present town and other about 5 km towards the east. Traditionally, it is named after  Raja Rohtash , in whose days the city is said to have been built. It is also claimed that the town derives its name from the  Roherra  (Tacoma undulate) tree called  Rohitaka  in  Sanskrit . It is said that before the town came into existence it was the site of a forest of Rohitaka trees and hence its name became Rohtak. Another version connects Rohtak with Rohitaka, which is mentioned in mahabharat  in connection with campaign of  Nakula , the  Pandav  warrior. [ edit ] Historical Sikh Shrines Rohtak has two important historical  Sikh  Shrines,  Gurudwara Bangla Sahib  and  Sri Manji Sahib LakhanMajra , both  Gurudwaras commemorate Guru  Tegh Bahadur Sahib Jee  (the Ninth  Sikh Guru ). Gurudwara Bangla Sahib is in the city itself, and Gurudwara Sri Manji Sahib is 20 km from the city. [ edit ] Geographical and Demographic Information
Total: 1745/km 2
[ edit ] Area Area not available for cultivation: 15956 Acres
Culturable waste: 3775 Acres
Unirrigated Area: 20200 Acres
Irrigated Area: 123422 Acres
Forest: 0 Acres
[ edit ] Population (2001) Total: 940,128
Urban: 329,604
Rural: 610,524
Density: 539/km 2 .
Literates: 592,485
Sex Ratio(F:M): 847:1000
[ edit ] About City
The City is developing rapidly in both Educational and Industrial areas. [ edit ] Developments in City [ edit ] Industrial Model Township The Haryana State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation (HSIIDC) has developed an Industrial Model Township (IMT) at NH10. Spread over 3,000 Acres, several heavy industries are developing their plants here. Asian Paints Limited has started Asia's Largest Production Plant.  [ 1 ]
Maruti Suzuki is Developing Research and Development Plant.  [ 2 ]
Proposed Indian School Of Business
Hitech Plastics Limited
Footwear Design and Development Institute
[ edit ] Rajiv Gandhi Sports Complex The State Government is also Developing  Rajiv Gandhi Sports Complex  at Sector 6 in the City. The Sports Complex will include: Cricket Pavilion
Athletic Practice Ground
Athletic Stadium
Wrestling Hall
Boxing Hall
Hockey Ground
Soccer Practice Ground
Soccer Stadium
Swimming Pool and more...
[ edit ] Film and TV Institute Setup The Haryana government is setting up a state-of-the-art State Institute for Film & Television at Rohtak on the pattern of the Film and Television Institute,  Pune . The total project cost for would be Rs 200 crore and the state government has earmarked 22 acres (89,000 m 2 ) of land for the institute. Sources in the technical education informed that the government had already invested Rs 100 crore in the proposed project and was likely to infuse another Rs 1000 crore by the end of next year. [ 3 ] [ edit ] Living in The City
Park at Night
Omaxe City Villas
Right After Some Showers
Suncity-I Entrance Gate The city is Surrounded by green areas. The parks are well maintained and many leisure activities are available. [ edit ] Weather and Climate Climate in the city is extreme. Lowest Temperature: 0-1 degrees Celsius
Highest Temperature: 44-45 degrees Celsius
[ edit ] Transportation With more than 8 Flyovers/Bridges, all neighborhoods in Rohtak are very well connected by good roads. [ edit ] Rail Rohtak Junction is connected to  New Delhi  by  EMU  Service.  Asthal Bohar Station  is Being upgraded to a Junction, to ease the pressure at  Rohtak Junction Station . [ edit ] Bus The city is well connected to other cities by  Haryana Roadways  Buses. The trip to  New Delhi takes 20-30 minutes. In-city bus service is in development. [ edit ] Shopping The retail sector in Rohtak is highly developed, including Asia's Largest Cloth Market, which has opened a branch in  New Delhi . Four new malls are in the planning stages: Merion Sky Tech Mall, Sector 3
Agro Mall, Sector 14
Jop Square, NH10
Sheetal Lifestyle, NH10
[ edit ] Private Residential Townships in City One City , Sector 37
Suncity , Sector 34, 35, 36, and 36A
Omaxe city , Sector 29
Parsvnath Developers , Sector 33A
BCC Developers
Ansal API  [ 4 ]
[ edit ] Education
Delhi Public School
Student Activiy Center in MDU
Construction of New Industrial Training Institute [ edit ] Primary and Secondary International bharti school
Model School
KIDZEE International Pre school (www.kidzee.com)
The Sanskriti School
Wonderland Public School
Shiksha Bharti Senior Secondary School
D.A.V. Centenary Public School
D.G.V. Public School and Research Centre
Delhi Public School
Kendriya Vidyalaya
M.D.N Public School
Silver Bells Public School
Indus Public School
Scholar's Rosary Public School
Shri Baba Mastnath School
Pathania Public School
SRS
Vaish Public School
Chhotu Ram Memorial Public School
Jat Heroes Memorial Anglo Sanskrit School
Vishwakarma Public School
Vaish Sr Sec School
[ edit ] Higher Vaish College of Engineering
Baba Mast Nath College of Engineering
Rohtak Institute of Engineering and Management
Maharishi Dayanand University
Indian Institute of Management
Matu Ram Institute Of Engineering & Management
All India Jat Heroes Memorial College
Chhotu Ram College
Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences
Sanskriti College of Education
[ edit ] Economy
Gymkhana Club The economy of the district is primarily agrarian. 51.89% of the total workers are engaged in agriculture and allied activities, 7.68% in cottage and household industries, and the rest are engaged in other activities. The farmers of Rohtak district are quite progressive and therefore, mechanization and adoption of modern technology in farming are gaining momentum. The demand for tractors and new devices such as multi-purpose threshers, hoeing and weeding wheels, seed drills etc. have been increasing constantly. Similarly, there has been constant increase in the number of pumpset/tubewell in the district. Through-agriculture is the main activity in the district, many residents supplement their income with other occupations, for example dairy production and animal husbandry. Dairy is the most important allied industry in the district. Veterinary facilities, extension work, and cooperative societies do exist in the district. The district has one milk plant unit at Rohtak. Thee milk plant makes products like butter, ghee, milk powder etc. Further the district has two sheep and wool extension centres at  Ritoli  and  Pilana . There is one poultry hatchery at Rohtak. To provide marketing assistance to  DWCRA  and  IRDP beneficiaries, there is one sale counter, namely  Gramodaya . Industrially, Rohtak is one of the fast developing districts of Haryana, having good industrial base with large and medium scale industries along with many small scale units. The distribution of industrial activities is, however, uneven. The majority of industrial units are concentrated at Rohtak Delhi Road. The district's ample agricultural resources, availability of skilled labourers, a good network of infrastructural facilities and various incentives offered by the government, coupled with its close proximity to Delhi have encouraged new industrial development. Some now industrial centres are coming up along N.H-10, passing through this district. All villages are electrified and well connected by good roads. Essential services like postal service, education/health etc are generally available.
Posted by
world city
at
2:13 AM
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share to Pinterest
Labels:
indian city
No comments:
Post a Comment
Newer Post
Older Post
Home
Subscribe to:
Post Comments (Atom)
affiliate marketing
Followers
Blog Archive
▼
2011
(517)
►
September
(2)
►
August
(7)
►
July
(15)
►
June
(1)
►
May
(9)
►
April
(3)
►
March
(32)
▼
February
(299)
A plethora of government initiatives to provide ac...
Market conscienceTNN | In recent years, terms lik...
57Indians are rightly excited by the jasmine revo...
ALLAHABAD: The police have identified the robbers...
LWD celebrates woman power to spread awarenessTNN...
PATNA
Bangalore district General information
A VILLAGE AND FARM RESORT WITH REAL E...
Wikipedia (pronounced /ˌwɪkɨˈpiːdi.ə/ WIK-i-PEE-d...
Pratapgarh, is a town in Rajasthan, India. It is ...
Pratapgarh FortPratapgarh, a very strong hill for...
Noida Properties
...
Kanpur Property
...
Surat Property
...
Nagpur
Mumbai Properties
Ludhiana Property
...
Shimla Property Shimla properties have grabbed th...
Jammu Property
Jammu real estate, despite being ...
Ghaziabad Property
The demand for Ghaziabad Prop...
Lucknow Properties
Lucknow properties were nev...
allhabd
Anil Kapoor (Hindi: अनिल कपूर, Punjabi: ਅਨਿਲ ਕਪੂਰ...
Karisma Kapoor (Hindi: करिश्मा कपूर, born 25 June...
Juhi Chawla (Hindi: जूही चावला, born 13 November ...
Kareena Kapoor (Hindi: करीना कपूर, pronounced [kə...
Salman Khan (Hindi: सलमान ख़ान, Urdu: عبد الرشید ...
Our LinksHomeWorld Cup 2011 Live Score World Cup...
Sachin Ramesh Tendulkar  pronunciation (help·info...
Irfan Khan Pathan (Hindi: इरफ़ान ख़ान पठान, Urdu:...
as founded as an offshoot of Nupedia, a now-aband...
Udaipur Hotels
Leh Ladakh With Gallery
Shimla Hotels
The Oberoi ...
Pune Hotels
Le Meridien, Pune
Le Meridien Pune is ...
ASHOK HOTEL NEW DELHI
Pune Hotels
Khajuraho IntroductionKhajuraho Historykhajurah...
Mysore Hotels
Hotel Chandela
Jodhpur Hotels
Umaid Bhawan Palace
Hotel Panihari
Comfort Inn Hawa Mahal Hotel Jaipur
Hyderabad HotelsTaj Mahal Hotel
Abids Road, Hyde...
Goa Hotels Li
Dehradun Hotels
Chennai Hotels
Chennai Hotels
Calcutta Hotels
indie hotaol
InterContinental
Bangalore Hotels
Bangalore Hotels
Comfort Inn Vijay Residency Hotel...
Hotels In AmritsarWe are the renowned Travel Agen...
This 3 Star property near Nehru Bridge Corner ha...
Located in the north of India, Agra is a beautif...
Hotels in India
Ajmer
Ahmedabad
Hotel Facilities
Amenities:Front Desk,Business Ce...
Places Covered : Delhi - Jaipur - Jaisalmer - Jod...
The Taj Palace
Hotel, New ...
Agra
Agartala
Beawar
Bawani Khera
Bawal
Barwani
Barrackpur
Barnala
Barmer
Baripada
Bathinda
Basna
Bandikui
Barh
Bargarh
Bareilly
Barakar
Banda
Bamra
Balrampur
Ballia
Ballabhgarh
Bali
Balasore
Balangir
Balaghat
Bahraich
Baharampur
Burhanpur
Bahadurgarh
Anantapur
Anand
Anakapalle
Amroha
Amritsar
Amreli
Amravati
Ammakandakara
►
January
(149)
About Me
world city
India
View my complete profile
Awesome Inc. template. Powered by
Blogger .