New Page 1
"KSHATRIYAS" - THE   NOBLE   TURANIAN   RULERS
AND WARRIORS   IN   ANCIENT   INDIA
(ONE OF MANY TURANIAN SUN-EMPIRES THAT GAVE CIVILIZATION TO THE WORLD)
By
Polat Kaya
INRODUCTION
The ancient Turanian civilization was a world wide
civilization.  It has been referred to as the "Turkish Era"  (Tarih-i Türk) in
history. The Turanian Tur/Turk/Oguz peoples were the believers of
the One Sky-Father-God, Sun-God and Moon-God trinity.  This religious belief was
so potent in ancient Turanian society that expressions describing God were used
as the titles of rulers, country names, city names, names of important
establishments, topographical names, etc. and man himself (i.e., man's head and
his creation capabilities) were composed in a way that they contained the names
of the sun, moon and the sky-god).  This tradition was carried everywhere the
Turanian Tur/Turk/Oguz peoples moved and established new civilizations.
It seems that until some 3000 years ago, the world spoke one language and that
one language was Turkish.  I have analyzed many non-Turkish words with their
given meanings and found that embedded   in
them were Turkish words or expressions with the same meaning - or a similar
meaning - which cannot be due to coincidence.
The ancient world was dominated by the Turkish speaking Turanians and Turkish
was the dominant language that the world was speaking. However, the world (i.e.,
Asia, Europe, Middle East and North Africa) went through an upheaval where this
ancient Turanian Sky-God, Sun-God and Moon-God worshipping civilization was
subjected to internal and external opposition by secretive religious cults and
eventually toppled.  These secretive cults, under the guise of religion, first
captured the top hierarchy of the existing societies most everywhere where they
claimed to be the middlemen between God and the public.  Once in that supposedly
"reputable" and "reverand" position, they captured the wealth of the country as
well as the control of the country by politics and intrigue.  This way, they
were also controlling the kings of the country as well.  They grew so powerful
that they were not even subject to the laws of the country or the authority of
the kings.  They created a class system where they were at the top - and quite
frequently they acted as kings themselves.  These religious cult organizations
and their members manufactured new languages from the existing Turkish language
by way of altering the Turkish words and phrases.  The manufactured words and
languages looked and sounded totally different than the existing Turkish.  But
the original Turkish source text used for the manufacture of each word was not
lost in the process.  It remained embedded in a confused manner in the body of
the new words.  With this knowledge about languages, and with the meaning
attributed to these non-Turkish words, many of them can be deciphered and the
Turkish text material used for the formation of such words can be recovered.   I
have deciphered   the   Turkish   linguistic
source for more than   2000 words   belonging
to the Indo-European languages.
In ancient India, there was a very long lasting   SUN-EMPIRE ,   called   SURYAVANSHA ,
[ http://www.polatkaya.net/Sun_Empire_of_Ancient_India.html ],   creating
a civilization that has been the pride of Indian people. This Sun Empire was
founded by the ancient Turanian Tur/Turk/Oguz peoples in Indian sub continent.    Turkish
words and names that belonged to the founders of that great Sun Empire   have
been altered and disguised into the so-called "Sanskrit" language by the writers
of Vedic documents.  This was very much the same language
alteration trick used by the Greeks, Romans, other so-called "Aryans", Semites,
and others who also manufactured so many different languages from Turanian
Turkish.    In this paper,
I want to examine and discuss some of the names related to this Sun Empire of
ancient India, that is, the Empire of so-called "KSHATRIYA" .
India has been a Turanian country since very ancient times, but this fact has
been obliterated by   Aryan
Brahmin   clergy by confusing
and converting the native Turkish language into what is called "Sanskrit" and
other languages of India.  The name HINDUSTAN   is
a living testament to that fact. Interestingly, in one meaning, the name    BRAHMIN ,
rearranged as   "HAIN-BRM" ,
is the altered, restructured and  Sanskritized form of the Turkish expression   "HAIN
BiReM"   meaning   "I
am the evil one" .  The Brahmins, under the guise of being "godly" people,
were  culturally public exploiting, money and land hording, usury operating and
archaic Aryan intelligencia   of their
times.    For their secretive
organizations, they collected all kinds of Kshatriya information in Turkish and
encrypted them into the words of so-called "Sanskrit" language. The mythological
Vedic writings were their way of covering up their activities and controlling
the unsuspecting public. Sophistication by garbled verbology, that is,
reproducing information composed in Turkish message in a confused and distorted
way, was best deception technic used by them just like the Semitic magician and
sorcerer priests of ancient Babylonia and Greece did. This explains why Brahmins
and they law making collaborators eventually annihilated the Kshatriyas of
ancient India.  The so-called   KURUKSHETRA   war
was their secret planning to tople and annihilate the Turanian Kshatriya people
who ruled ancient India.
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kurukshetra_War_%E2%80%93_day_1
"The   Kurukshetra
War   detailed in the   Hindu
epic   Mahabharata   was
between the ancient   Hindu   clans
of   Kaurava   and   Pandava and
lasted eighteen days.
On day one,   Kaurava   army   stood
facing west and the   Pandava   army
stood facing east. On day one wind blew from east to west, against the Kauravas.
I n the morning when the war started, the   Padavas   appeared
illuminated due to the sunshine on their faces and the   Kauravas   appeared
shaded and dark."
This tells us that the battle was between the   Sun   (Sunshine)
believing   PANDAVAS
personifying the Kshatriyas who were illuminated by the sunlight early in the
morning and the   "Black"   (night,
shadow)  believing   KAURAVA ,
which is a name that has been made up from Turkish   "KARA-AVU"
(KARA EVI)   meaning the   "Black
House" (Evil House) . They were the   "SETI"
(Black Evil God)   believing Aryans.  So it was a war in ancient India
between the   Turanian
Kshatriyas   and the Brahmin "Karaevler"   (i.e.,   Black
Houses, the Evil Lords ).   Thus
the war was between the   "good"   and
the   "evil"   beliefs.
The name    KURUKSHETRA   supposedly
is the name of a place where this war took place in ancient India.  But hidden
in this name is another Turkish phrase related to the annihilation of Kshatriyas.    The
name    KURUKSHETRA ,   rearranged
as   "TURKU-KERASH" ,
is the anagrammatized form of the Turkish expression   "TÜRKÜ
KIRIŞ"   meaning   "killing
the Turk"   . Evidently, this
must have been an intentional setup to kill the royal Kshatriya Turks in India
by the Aryan Brahmins and their law-teaching collaborators and the Brahmin
warriors so-called   PARASURAMA !
There is a similar word in "Latin" language known as  TYRANNICIDA
(tyrennicide)  which is a Romanized (Aryanized) Turkish expression " TURANNI
KIYDI" (Turanlilari öldürdü)   meaning   "mass
killing of Turanians" .  This term is another alternative way of saying
"genocide".  The name PARASURAMA ,   in
one meaning, is the Turkish   expression   "PARACU
RAMA"   meaning   "money
owning, Moon-believer" Aryans, and in the other, it is the Turkish
expression   "PARA
AŞURMA"   meaning   "stealing
money from any one and every one who is an easy target  for exploitation" .
This exploitation system has been carried to present times by the money
manipulating and operating establishments.
***
In support of what I said above about the world wide presence of
ancient Turanians, I would also like to bring to the attention of the reader the
following paper by   HYDE CLARKE   entitled   "THE
TURANIAN EPOCH OF THE ROMANS, AS ALSO OF THE GREEKS, GERMANS, AND ANGLO-SAXONS,
IN RELATION TO THE EARLY HISTORY OF THE WORLD" , published in "the
Transactions of the Royal Historical Society", Vol. VIII, 1880, p. 172 -222.
Let me cite just one paragraph from the research of Hyde Clarke:
"My own researches, as laid
in detail this year before the Philological Society, fully establish the
character of the Etruscans as a Turanian language, belonging to one great group,
or family of families, allied to the languages of all the nations of early
culture, the pre-Hellenic, Thracian, Phyrigian, Lydian, Carian, Georgian,
Canaanite, the Akkad of Babylonia, and Egyptian. Among modern languages the
analogues are with Basque, Ugro-Altaic, Georgian, many languages of India and
Further India, Japanese, Coptic, and the languages of higher culture of Central,
Western, and Southern Africa, and many languages of North, South, and Central
America."
This revelation by   Hyde Clarke   implies
that the Turanian language of Turkish was the progenitor language for the world
languages. This article supports what I have been saying all along in my
writings.    Here we observe that the
writer Hyde Clarke is also referring to many Indian Languages being from the
family of Turanian languages. In this regard, Sanskrit is one of the major
languages of Indian sub continent that has been manufactured from Turkish by the
Vedic writing Aryan Brahmin clerics.   The
Sun and Moon Empires of ancient India, that is, so-called   SURYAVANSHA   and   CHANDRAVANSHA ,
were the Turkish speaking   Turanianempires
whose language was replaced in time with "Sanskrit". Sanskrit, just like Greek,
Latin and all other "Indo-European" languages, is also a language that has been
manufactured artificially from Turkish!
***
The following online reference also provides enlightening and supporting
information:
http://www.askaword.com/?q=Ancient+India+and+Central+Asia&d=ls&libs=
"Encyclopedia:
Ancient India and Central Asia,   Talk:Ancient
India and Central Asia
Ancient India and Central Asia   have
long traditions of socio-cultural, political and economic contact since remote   antiquity .
The two regions have common and contiguous borders, climatic continuity, similar
geographical features and geo-cultural affinity. There has always been
uninterrupted flow of men, material and the ideas between the two. So much so,
some ancient literary sources trace common lineage for   India ns,   Iran ians
and other   nationalities   of   Central
Asia .
thumb| [Physical
map   of   Central
Asia   from the Caucasus in the
northwest, to Mongolia in the northeast.]
Literary sources
Zend Avesta   states
that the ancestors of Iranian, Indian and    Turan ian
people were the three sons of   Tratoria ,
namely,   Arya,
Sairimia and Tura .
Turk and Mansak, two brothers, are stated to be ancestors of the   Turks   and   Mongol s.
Abu Qasim Farishta gives an interesting account of the   genealogy   of
the Indians and the Central Asians.
Ancient Indian literary sources like   Purana s,   Ramayana ,   Mahabharata   and
numerours other texts also provide plenty of evidence on historical, cultural
and political links between ancient India and Central Asian   nation s.
It is a fact of history that the   Kambojas ,   Sakas ,   Kushana s,   Huna s,
Turks and   Mughal s
all came to   India   from
Central Asia, as is frequently attested by the ancient Indian texts. "
About t he name   TRATORIA:
The name   TRATORIA ,
rearranged as   "ATA-TOR-RI" , is
from the Turkish expression   "ATA
TUR ERI"   meaning   "Father
Tur Man",   "Father Turk Man" .
Thus, the so-called name   TRATORIA   was
actually the ancestors of Turanians who migrated to all directions on earth
including Iran and India. But the Turanian Tur/Turk/Oguz peoples in Iran and
India were subjected to artificially implemented identity changes, as they were
done so in the middle east and Europe by those who call themselves Aryan and
Semite.  These groups have collaborated in obliterating evrything related to Tur,
Turk, Oguz, Turan, Tanru names and all other Turanian related entities.
b)    Additionally,   the name   TRATORIA ,
rearranged as   "TATAR-RI-O" , is
from the Turkish expression   "TATAR
ERI O" meaning   "he is
the Tatar man",  "he is the Turanian Tur/Turk/Oguz man" .
c)    Furthermore, the name   TRATORIA ,
rearranged as   "TOR-IATAR" , is
from the Turkish expression   "TUR
ÖYÜDÜR" ( TURANDUR ) meaning   "it
is the house of TUR",  "it is the house of Turanians",   "it
is Turan" .
These decipherments of the Aryanized name of   TRATORIA clearly
identifies that the ancient world of Central Asia, India and Iran were populated
by the Turanian Tur/Turk/Oguz peoples before they were artificially "Indo-Aryanized"
and "Iran Aryanized" by the so-called ancient "Aryan" and "Semite" religious
groups of India, Iran and the Middle East.
***
We have the following background information ( http://shootfighter.wordpress.com/2009/09/23/the-kshatriyas-in-india/ )
" After
looking at the different warrior clans of India (which, have other zillion sub
castes within them)…  we can come to the conclusion that Indians are a martial
race! Anyways, we get back to the beginning and understand what the   Kshatriyas   were
all about?   Kings,
royal folks, soldiers, etc, etc…
So lets turn the wheels of time back, initially in ancient Vedic
society, the kshatriya position was achieved on the merits of a person’s
aptitude (guna), conduct (karma), and nature (swabhava). The earliest Vedic
literature listed the   Kshatriya
(holders of ksatra, or authority)   as
second in rank, after the   Brahmins
(priests and teachers of law) , before the Vaisya (merchant-traders,
farmers and some artisan castes), and the Sudra (labourers, some farming castes
and other artisan castes).
Movements of individuals and groups from one class to another, both
upward and downward, were not uncommon;   a
rise in status even to the rank of Kshatriya was a recognized reward for
outstanding service to the rulers of the day.   Over
the years it became hereditary. In modern times, the Kshatriya varna includes a
broad class of caste groups, differing considerably in status and function but
united by their claims to rulership, the pursuit of war, or the possession of
land.
The legend that the   Kshatriyas ,
with the exception of the   Ikshvakus ,
were destroyed by   Parasurama ,
the sixth reincarnation of Vishnu, as a punishment for their tyranny is thought
by some scholars to reflect a long struggle for supremacy between priests and
rulers that ended in victory for the former.   By
the end of the Vedic era, the Brahmins were supreme, and the Kshatriya had
fallen to second place.
The persistent representation of deities (especially Vishnu, Krishna,
and Rama) as rulers underscores the point, as does the elaborate series of
ritual roles and privileges pertaining to kings through most of history.
With the rise of Buddhism, Kshatriyas
regained their position as first of the four varnas.   The
murder of the last Maurya emperor   Brhadrata
by his Brahmin general Pusyamitra Sunga , and the subsequent decline of
Buddhism in India, marked Brahmin supremacy once more in Eastern India. Western
India remained a stronghold of Kshatriya clans as epitomized by Rajputana and
the powerful Kshatriya empire that ruled from Ujjain right up to the Islamic
incursions led to a downfall of the Chauhan Kshatriyas in Delhi.
Dutiful Warrior
A ruler was bound by the holy
scriptures to govern as a Dharma-Raja (Just Rule), with the main duties being
protection of his subjects and livestock.
* The Rig Veda states:
praja arya jyotiragrah’. RV, VII. 33.17
People ruled by Aryans are led by the Divine light. King Rama of
Ayodhya is considered the greatest of the Dharma-Rajas:
arya sarva samascaiva sadaiva priyadarsanah
An Aryan who worked for the equality of all, was dear to everyone.
Rama is also considered an avatar of Vishnu.
* The Ramayana states:
Like the ancient monarch   Manu,
father of the human race
Dasaratha   ruled
his people with a father’s loving grace.
The Brahmin varna was reddish as the
sky before dawn, Kshatriya varna as the Sun at noon, Vaishya as the evening sky
and Shudra the color of night sky.   Gradually,
the Varna system caught hold of Indian Sub Continent and each varna did its job
as per guidelines of Brahma. Brahmins and Kshatriyas,Vaishyas were the upper
castes and Shudras the lower castes. Both, Brahmins and Kshatriyas were allowed
to study the Vedas.
Kshatriyas (pronounced as shatria)
also studied the ancient martial arts which were eventually carried by Buddhist
monks like Bodhidharma (a Kshatriya) to China and Japan.   The
Rig Veda refers to the ways in which Gods four body parts make up the four
classes, depending on the nature or values that the human holds. This was
interpreted as meaning that no one caste is more important than the other and
that society cannot survive without all parts working together.
According to Bhagvata,   Mair
Kshatriyas   are one of the
oldest. Basically Mair Kshatriyas from Brahamaji vanshavali King Ajmeerd, Ajmer
Jesalmer Badmer are some of ancient cities of mer or mair kshatriyas .   Ancient
Median Empires also belongs Indian mair kshatriyas. The Medes are credited with
the foundation of the first Iranian empire,   the
largest of its day until Cyrus the Great established a unified Iranian empire of
the Medes and Persians, often referred to as the   Achaemenid
Persian Empire,   by defeating   his
grandfather and overlord, Astyages the shah of Media.   According
to the Sumerian(mair) king list, the first five rulers of Akkad (Sargon, Rimush,
Manishtusu, Naram-Sin,(NARSING) and Shar-kali-sharri) ruled for a long time.
Sargon built a large empire in the late
8th or the 7th century B C lists no fewer than 65 cities and lands belonging to
that empire. Yet, even if   Magan
and Kapturu (Crete)   are given
as the eastern and western limits of the conquered territories, Sargon appointed
one of his daughters priestess of the moon god in Ur. She took the name of   Enheduanna   and
was succeeded in the same office by   Enmenanna ,
a daughter of   Naram-Sin.   Enheduanna
must have been a very gifted woman; two Sumerian hymns by her have been
preserved, and she is also said to have been instrumental in starting a
collection of songs dedicated to the temples of Babylonia. (Mesopotamia to the
end of the Old Babylonian period »   Sumerian
civilization » Sumer and Akkad from 2350 to 2000 bc) Mair Kshatriyas had ruled
over in Cambodia as “Khmer(mair) Kings”. Khmer, Sumer, Medes and Mair are same. ”Khmer
King Surya Verman is well known in ancient history. requires more research. "
About the name
ARYAN:
First, we should clearify the term ARYAN.  The etymology of the term is given in
Wikipedia, [ http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Aryan#Etymology ],
as:
"The   English   word
“Aryan” is derived from the   Sanskrit   word   ārya   meaning
'noble'; [1 ]   it
was used initially as a national name to designate the worshippers of the   Devas   and
especially   Indra   according
to Brahmanical principles (performance of sacrifice, Yajna ). [1 ] [19 ]
The   Zend   airya
'venerable' and   Old
Persian   ariya are also considered
as national names. [1 ] [12 ]
They call themselves as the designate worshippers of the   DEVAS ,
and especially   INDRA .
But the term   INDRA   is
nothing but the altered and disguised form of the Turkish word   TANRI   meaning
" God " of Turanians.  Thus, they altered
and   usurped   this
Tuaranian Turkish name for God. The " Aryan "
clergy of all kinds have been doing this usurpation of Turkish culture for
thousands of years.
The Sanskrit term   ARYAN   is
from Turkish expression   "ARAYAN"   meaning   "wanderer"   or   "gypsy" .   ARYAN   priests
usurped the name-shell of the Turanians everywhere and the Turanian Kshatriyas
(i.e., Tur/Turk/Oguz peoples) in India.  As they stole the Turkish language by
altering and restructuring the words and expressions of Turkish into
manufactured   non-Turkish    languages,
they also stole the ancient image of the Turanian Tur/Turk/Oguz peoples.  In
this process, they also vilified the Turanians as they pleased. The so-called
"Aryanism" was a habitually and culturally exploitative system using every
deceptive means to benefit unfairly from theworks and the ancient   civilization
of   Turanians. By altering and
restructuring the ancient Turkish, they achieved this usurpation very
effectively to present times.  'Aryan' priests everywhere restructured the clan
names, tribe names , country names, king names, personal names, etc.  of the
ancient Turanian   Tur/Turk/Oguz
peoples.   Thus, they called these
newly restuctured names as belonging to "ARYANS". By this deceptive
manipulation, the ethnic identity of countless Turanian  peoples   have
been altered   into "ARYAN" identity.    This
very sneaky yet highly effective system has not been easy to detect for so long!
With this linguistic trick, the world public has been intentionally conned and
exploited!
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Deva_(Hinduism )
"The Sanskrit   devá-   derives
from Indo-Iranian   *devá-   which
in turn descends from the   Proto-Indo-European   (PIE)
word, *deiwos ,
originally an adjective meaning "celestial" or "shining", which is a PIE (not
synchronic Sanskrit)   vrddhi   derivative
from the root   *diw   meaning
"to shine", especially as the day-lit sky. The feminine form of PIE   *deiwos   is
PIE   *deiwih 2 ,
which descends into Indic languages as   devi ,
in that context meaning "goddess".
The etymology given for this word above is not truthful. The word   DEVA   is
from the Turkish word   DEV   meaning   "giant,
very large" .  The Sanskrit word   DEIWOS ,
with the bogus letter   W   able
to represent   UU   or   VV   or   YY   or   UV   or   UY   or   VY ,
and in this case representing UY, makes   DEIWOS   to
be   "DEIUYOS" .
Now this word   DEIUYOS ,
rearranged as   "EY-OUS-DI" ,
is the altered and reformatted form of the Turkish expression   "AY
OUS'DI" (AY OGUZ'DU)   meaning   "it
is the Moon-God (Ay Oguz)" .  Of course,   the
Moon   is a   "celestial
and shining being" .  And, it is a   DEV   (i.e.
a giant sized object) that has been personified!  Thus, attributing this altered
Turkish expression   DEIWOS   (AY
OUS'DI)   to so-called "Proto
Indo-European" (PIE) is a bogus concoction because I just showed that it was
from Turkish - and its original Turkish meaning has been intentionally
obscured.  Similarly, the term   ARYA ,
is from Turkish   "AY
ER"   meaning   "moon
man" . Moon itself is a wanderer around the earth.   The "nobility"   meaning
attributed to   "ARYA"   is
from the Turanian name for the    Moon-God
(i.e.,   "Ay
Tanri"   in Turkish).
In ancient Turanian religion, the Sun-God, Moon-God and Sky-God   concepts   were
mythologically personified as   "ER"   meaning "man" ,   "human-being"   of
sky.  And these trinity sky deities were of course   "the
noble ones" .  Hence so-called   ARYA ,
that is, "AY AR"   (AY
ER,   AY TANRI)   in
Turkish, had also the meaning of   "nobility" .
In this context, those who worshipped the Moon-God could also be regarded as
"noble" like the   Sky-God,   the
Sun-God and Moon-God worshipping Tranians were called noble peoples.  However,
the Brahmin clergy made use of this ancient religious meaning as a self serving
means to call themselves "noble" , and in
time the Turanian Kshatriyas not so noble as themselves. Thus,   the
Brahmins artificially elevated themselves   above
all others.  This deception by them kept this so-called   "ARYAN"   group
as the top-class men in the Indian society. It was a deceptive way of exploiting
the public by appearing as a   "godly
noble"   people to the rest of
the community.   Thus, the   "ARYAN" nobility
was a fictional convenient deception.
In this regard, the summary information given in   the
following url link on the Internet is also enlightening and it refers to an   Aryan
fiction:
http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_qa3612/is_200310/ai_n9266521/   .
[ARYANS, JEWS, BRAHMINS: THEORIZING AUTHORITY THROUGH MYTHS OF IDENTITY, By   Dorothy
Figueira,   New York: State
University   of New York   Press
, 2002. 300 p].
***
About the name
KSHATRIYA-1:
Now let us turn back to Kshatriyas.  The above given background information
about the   Kshatriya   people
in India reveals the ethnic identity of some of the people who constituted the
people of   Kshatriya .
In addition to this reference source, we also have the following references   ( http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kshatriya )
about Kshatriya people:
"In   Sanskrit ,
it is derived from   kṣatra ,   meaning
"roof, umbrella, dominion, power, government" from a root   kṣī   "to
rule, govern, possess".   Old
Persian   xšaθra   ("realm,
power"),   xšaθrya   ("royal"),
and   xšāyaθiya   ("emperor")
are related to it, as are the   New
Persian   words   šāh   ("emperor")
and   šahr   ("city",
"realm"). The   Thai   word
for "king",   kasat ,
and the   Malay   word
for " knight " or " warrior ",   kesatria   or   satria ,
are also derived from it. The term denotes aristocratic status.
In the early   Vedic
civilization , the warrior caste was called   rājanya
(or kšatrīya) .   Rājanya   was
an adjectival form of   rāja   "ruler,
king" from a root rāj "to rule", cognate to the   Latin   rex
"king", the German   Reich   "empire/realm",
and the Thai racha "king". In Persia, the   satraps ,
or " kshatrapa ", were the governors, or
"protectors", of the Persian Empire's provinces."
The " Kshatriya " related terms given above
were all originally expressions from Turkish as we shall see below. In dealing
with the decipherment of names such as the name   KSHATHRA ,
it must be remembered that they were the people who worshipped the Sun and the
Moon who initially founded the Sun Empire in ancient India (Hindustan).  Hence
many of their names are sun related but composed in Turkish first before the
Turkish source text was converted into a restuctured alien format called either
"Sanskrit" or other so-called "Aryan" languages.
The name   KSHATRIYA   is,
what I call, one of many Aryanized   "one
word"   information storage
system (memory, container) where information related to and describing the word
in question are stored within the body of the word in the form of Turkish
descriptive expressions. The relevant information   saved   in
the word is revealed when it is deciphered in different ways revealing its
contents in Turkish expressions.  This I will show as we continue examine the
word   KSHATRIYA .
In view of the background information in the above given citing, let us now
decipher the   KSHATRIYA   related
words.
a)    Supposedly, old Persian term   KSHATHRA   meaning
( realm, power ), rearranged as  "SHAH-ASKRT"   or   "SH-ASKARTH" ,
is the anagrammatized form of the Turkish expression   "ŞAH
ASKARIDI (ŞAH   ASKERIDI)   meaning   "it
is the soldiers of the King" .  Indeed,   without
the army of a king, he is not a ruler, therefore, the power of a king is
measured by the strength of his army. This decipherment shows that the source of
the so-called "old Persian" word   KSHATHRA   was
actually a Turkish expression restructured into a newly manufactured language
(so-called Persian) that did not exist before.
b)    Old Persian   KSHATHRYA   meaning
( royal ),   rearranged
as  "TYRK SHAHA" , is the anagrammatized
form of the Turkish expression   "TÜRK
ŞAHI"   meaning   "the
Turk King"   who is, of course,
like any other king, a royal person!  This again shows that not only is the
source of the name   KSHATHRYA   Turkish
but also the   KSHATHRYA   peoples
were Turkish speaking Turanians.
c)    Old Persian   KSHAYATHIYA   meaning
( emperor ),   rearranged
as   "KYYA-SHAHTI-A" ,
where letter Y is a replacement for letters U and V also, is the anagrammatized
form of the Turkish expression   "GÖYE
ŞAHTI O"   meaning   "he
is King to Sky" . And therefore,   "He
is the God" .  In ancient Turanian civilization, kings or emperors called
themselves as "God".  So this "old Persian" word is also from Turkish!
Additonally, this term   KSHAYATHIYA   is
also a form of the   Turkish expression   "KÖYE
ŞAHTI O" meaning   "he
is King to village (country)" .
It is interesting to note that even the so-called English word   "COUNTRY ",
rearranged as   "COYUNTR" ,
is an angrammatized form of the Turkish expression   "KÖYÜNDÜR"   meaning   "it
is your village" .   Your village, my village, our village, their village,
etc., are all part of a country.
Furthermore, the term    KSHAYATHIYA ,   rearranged
as   "KYYA-ISHAHTA" ,
is the anagrammatized form of the Turkish expression   "GÖYE
IŞIHTI"   meaning   "he
is Light to Sky" , and, therefore,   "he
claims to be the sun and the sunlight to the sky and the world" .
With such deifying titles composed in Turkish, the bearers of the title become
an emperor and a royal person.  At this point, I would like to point out that
the so-called "Persian" term  " SHAH "
meaning "king" is nothing but the altered form of the Turkish word "IŞIH"
(I Ş IK)   meaning   "light" .
Indeed " LIGHT " is the king not only to
the earth and its dwellers but also to the universe.
Turkish word   ŞAH   means   "king" ,    ŞAHTI   means   "is
the king" ,    GÖY
(GÖK)   means   "sky;
blue" ,    GÖYE   means   "to
sky" ,  IŞIH (IŞIK)   means   "light" ,   IŞIHTI
(IŞIKTI)   means   "is
the light" ,   KÖY   means   "village" .
d)    The Malay words   for " knight "
(warrior on horse) or " warrior ",   kesatria   or   satria ,
are also said to have been derived from the term   KSHATHRYA .
This is also enlightening.   The Malay
word    KESATRIA   meaning   "knight"   or   "warrior" ,   rearranged
as "ASKERTI-A" , is the anagrammatized form
of the Turkish expression   "ASKERDI
O"   meaning   "he
is soldier, he is warrior" .  Hence, its source is also from Turkish.
e)    Additionally, the Malay word   kesatria   or   satria   for
" knight ", that is, " warrior
on horse" , is also enlightening.   The
Malay word    KESATRIA ,   rearranged
as   "AT-ASKERI" ,
is the anagrammatized form of the Turkish expression   "AT
ASKERI" meaning   "horse
soldier, the cavalry, knight" .   Again the source of this Malay word is
from Turkish.    Even the Malay word SATRIA   is
just   KESATRIA   with
the   KE   chopped
off.
Turkish word   AT   means   "horse" ,   ASKER   means   "soldier,
warrior" .    AT
ASKERI   means   "horse
soldier, cavalry" .
f)    Additionally,   the Malay
word    KESATRIA ,   rearranged
as   "ASKERIAT" ,
is the anagrammatized form of the Turkish expression   "ASKERIYEDI"
(ASKER   ÖYIDI)   meaning   "it
is the house of soldier,   it is the   house
of warriors,   it is the   house
of Army" .  Thus again it is from Turkish rather than so-called "old
Persian" or "new Persian".
g)     The   KSHATRIYAS   were
rulers who ruled people with most fairness and justice.  In this context, when
the name   KSHATRIYA is   rearranged
as   "HK-ITARASY" ,
it reveals itself as the anagrammatized form of the Turkish expression   "HaK
IDARESI"   meaning " government
of law ,   right,
justice   and
Godliness" .   This
shows the law obeying and just leadership character of the Kshatriya peoples.
h)
Similarly, in this context, when the name   KSHATRIYA   is   rearranged
as   "KSHY-ITARA" ,
it is from the Turkish expression "KiŞI IDARA" (ADAM
IDARE)   meaning   "man
governing"   or   "governing
by man" .  This refers to an ancient   KSHATRIYA government
system which is   presently used, even
with kings and queens,   and called   "democracy" .
Turkish word   KiŞi   means   "man,
person" ,   IDARA
(IDARE)   means   " governing " ,   ADAM   means   "man,
person" .
Alternatively, in this context, when the name   KSHATRIYA   is   rearranged
as   "KHYS-ITARA" ,
it is from the Turkish expression "GUZ   IDARA"
(OGUZ IDARE)   meaning   "Oguz
(man) governing"   or   "governing
by Oguz man" .  This refers to a fair ancient government system of   KSHATRIYA     peoples.
i)   The Greek form of the word   "Democracy"   is   DEMOKRATIA   ( DEMOKRATIYA ).
But the term   DEMOKRATIYA ,
rearranged letter-by-letter as   "ADAM-ITREKY-O"   or   as   "ATM-IDAREKY-O" ,
where the last letter K is C/S,    is
the anagrammatized form of the Turkish expression   "ADAM
IDARESI"    meaning   "man
governing"   or   "governing
by men" .  But this is the same as the above decipherment of the name   KSHATRIYA .
In other words, the   "ADAM-IDARESI" ,
that is, the so-called   "Democracy",   although
claimed to be a "Greek" invention, was probably practiced by Kshatriyas as well
much earlier.  Considering the fact that ancient Greeks stole the Turkish
language to manufacture the "Greek" language, and together with it, every
cultural concept belonging to Turanian Tur/Turk/Oguz peoples, it is highly
likely that the concept of   Democracy   was
also usurped by the Aryan Greeks.
j)     The term   " SHARIYAT "   is
said to be from Urdu and Persian.  Urdu is a Turanian language based on Turkish
and mixed with words of so-called "Persian".  Just like all Indo-European
languages, "Persian" has also been manufactured from Turkish. Iran was a Turkish
speaking   country of   Turanian
peoples before it was Aryanized by the Achaemenid Dynasty, that is, during the
time that this dynasty was in power in Iran (550 - 330  B.C.).
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Achaemenid_Empire .
The   Achaemenid
Empire   ( Persian :   امپراتوری
هخامنشی ) (c. 550–330 B.C.E.), pronounced   /əˈkiːmənɨd/ ,
also known as the Persian Empire , was the successor state of the   Median
Empire , expanding to eventually rule over significant portions of the
ancient world which at around 500 B.C.E. stretched from the Indus Valley in the
east, to   Thrace   and   Macedon   on
the northeastern border of   Greece . [1 ]
The   Turanian   MEDE
Empire   was taken over (stolen)
by instigating an internal revolt against   the   MEDE     by
the so-called "Persians" , by another name,
the   "PARASHURAMA"   (i.e.,
the name corresponding to  Turkish expressions   "PARACU
RAMA", "PARA ASHURMA", "HARAMU-PARA"   and   "FARS
ARAMI" (Fars Aramaic)   in
Turkish), that is, the Aryan money-owner-warriors of the Indo-Aryan 'religious
cast' of Brahmins in India. See the analyses of   PARASHURAMA   below.
It seems that somehow the historians particularly accentuate the so-called "Achamenid"
Dynasty in Irand because it is Aryan and Aramaic instigated usurpation from
Turanians, yet the MEDE empire of Turamian Tur/Turk/Oguz peoples not only
artificially become "Aryanized" but also the civilization of these Turanians are
intentionally obliterated and alienated from Turanian Turkish peoples.  This has
been the doings of the Aryan and the Semitic priests throughout the history
against the Turanians.
k)     It seems that the name   " SHARIYAT "   of
the Islamic canonical law, is already in the name   KSHATRIYA   .
This we see as follows:
When the name   KSHATRIYA   is   rearranged
as   "K-SHARIATY" ,
it reveals within itself the anagrammatized form of the term "SHARIAT"
(ŞERIYAT)   presently   meaning   "governing
with Islamic canonical law" .  Yet far earlier than the Islamic Era,  the
Kshatriya seems to have embodied that concept and acted in their ruling people
in India. Curiously, even the name   "canon"   is
the Turkish word   "kanun"   meaning   "law" .
It seems that this ancient Turanian governing system by   KSHATRIYAS ,
that is,   "government
by law ,   rights,
justice   and
godliness"   has
been turned into the Islamic law. We must remember that the ruling system
exercised by the Kshatriyas was taken over by the Aryan Brahmin clergy and the
Abrahamic Semitic clergy after the annihilation of the KSHATRIYAS   in
India.
l)     In Persia, the   satraps ,
or " kshatrapa ", were the terms used for " governors "
or the " protectors " of the "Persian"
Empire's provinces. Now let us understand the Turkish identity of these two
so-called "Persian" names:
Let us first understand the name   "KSHATRAPA"   meaning   "governor"   or   "protector" .   The
name   "KSHATRAPA" ,
rearranged letter-by-letter as   "TARK-PASHA" ,
is the restructured and Persianized form of the Turkish expression   "TURK
PAŞA"   meaning  "Turkish
General" (i.e., military high ranking soldier)   who
is not only the head of an army unit but is also frequently appointed as a
governor of a province.  In this capacity. the   "TURK
PAŞA"   is the   "ruler
and the protector"   of the area
he is appointed to govern.  Thus, clearly, we see that this so-called "Persian"
word or title has also been intentionally manufactured from Turkish by first
breaking a Turkish expression into parts then restructuring them in a different
format which is then artificially termed "Persian".  Of course, with this
secretive process, not only has the Turkish language spoken throughout ancient
Iran been usurped and obliterated, but also the Turkish speaking Turanians of
ancient Iran have been Aryanized - and thus, alienated from being Tur/Turk/Oguz
peoples. The ancient Turanian civilization in Iran has been intentionally
converted to an alien "ARYAN" civilization that did not exist in Iran before.
Now let us understand the name   "SATRAPS"   again
meaning   "governor"   or   "protector" .   The
name   "SATRAPS" ,
rearranged letter-by-letter as   "PASSATR" ,
is the restructured and Persianized form of the Turkish expression   "PAŞATiR"   meaning    "he
is Military General"   who is
again a   "protector"   and
also a   "governor"   of
a province.
The English word   PROTECTOR ,   (a
person who protects or defends someone or something) ,   rearranged
letter-by-letter as "COROR-TEPT" ,
is the restructured and   Anglicized   form
of the Turkish expression   "KORUR
TEPeTi" (KORUR   BAŞTI) meaning    "he
is the defending head",   "he is the
protecting person"   which shows
that even this English word has been constructed using a Turkish expression.
Turkish word   KORUMAK   means   "to
defend, to protect" ,   KORU   means   "defend,
protect" ,    KORUR   means   "he/she/it
who defends, he/she/it who protects" ,    TEPE   means   "head,
person" ,    TEPEDI
(BAŞTI)   means   "it
is the head, it is the person" .
***
About the name
KSHATRIYA-2:
The above decipherments of the   KSHATRIYA   related
words proved to us that   KSHATRIYA   people
were Turkish speaking Turanian Tur/Turk/Oguz peoples. They worshipped the
Sky-God, Sun-God and Moon-God religious concepts  and with this godly guiding
belief, they had founded the great Sun Empire of India, ruled it, guided it and
protected their people in ancient India such that they have been the pride of
India.  In this context, the name   KSHATRIYA   also
has embedded in it other Turkish expressions that describe their Turanian
identities in a number of ways - but all in Turkish.   In
this context, what we will see below will show the power of the Turkish
language, in terms of Turkish words and phrases embedded in names and words of
Indo-European languages and other languages. Words are powerful.  No wonder that
the ancient Masarians (Misir, so-called "Egypt") were talking about the "power
of words"   and the " WORD "
was declared as   "God" .
The following decipherments of the name   KSHATRIYA   further
identify the Turanian identity of these peoples of ancient India.
a)    The name   KSHATRIYA ,
rearranged as   "KHAS-TYR-IA"   or   "KHYS-TAR-IA" ,   (where
letter "Y" is a multi identity letter that can be "Y" or "U" or "V" as
required),   is a restructured and
Sanskritized form of the Turkish expression   "GUZ-TUR
ÖYÜ"  (OGUZ TUR EVI)     meaning   "House
of OGUZ and TUR" .  Letter combination KH also gives the soft letter G in
Turkish.   The suffix   "IA"   is
the altered and Aryanized form of Turkish word   "ÖY"
(EV)   meaning   "house;
country, family; dynasty" .
b)    The name   KSHATRIYA ,
rearranged as   "KHYS-IATAR" ,   (where   KH
= G and   Y =  U = V),   is
a restructured and Sanskritized form of the Turkish expression   "GUZ   ÖYÜTÜR"
(GUZ   ÖYÜTÜR, GUZ EVIDIR,   OGUZ
EVIDIR,    GÖZ ÖYIDIR,    GÜNEŞ
EVIDIR,    KÖZ ÖYIDIR)     meaning   "It
is the House of Oguz";   "It is the
House of God";   "It is the House of
Sun and Moon";"It is the House of Fire" .
c)      The
name   KSHATRIYA ,
rearranged as   "TYRKSHA-IA" ,   is
a restructured and Sanskritized form of the Turkish expression   "TÜRKŞE
ÖYI" (TÜRKÇE  ÖYI)     meaning   "House
of Turkish" , that is,    "House
of Turkish speaking peoples" .  This identifies their language as
Turkish.
d)    The name   KSHATRIYA ,
rearranged as   "TYRK-AHS-IA" ,
is a restructured and Sanskritized form of the Turkish expression "TÜRK
AGIZ   ÖY" (TÜRK AGIZ EV")   again
meaning   "Turkish speaking
house", "Turkish speaking family of peoples" .
Turkish word   AGIZ   means   "mouth;
language, dialect" ,    ÖY
(EV)   means   "house;
home; dynasty" .
e)      The
name   KSHATRIYA ,
rearranged as   "AS-TYRKIAH" ,   is
a restructured and Sanskritized form of the Turkish expression "AS
TURKIYA" (AS TÜRKIYE)   meaning   "One/peerless
house of Turks" .
f)      The
name   KSHATRIYA ,
rearranged as   "ASIA-TYRKH" ,
is a restructured and Sanskritized form of the Turkish expression "ASYA
TÜRKI"     meaning   "Asian
Turks" .
g)      The
name   KSHATRIYA ,
rearranged as   "SAKA-HYITR" ,
is a restructured and Sanskritized form of the Turkish expression "SAKA
ÖYITiR" (SAKA ÖYÜTÜR)     meaning   "It
is house of Saka (Turks)" .
h)      The
name   KSHATRIYA ,
rearranged as   "SAHA-TYRKI"
(SAKA-TYRHI) , is a restructured and Sanskritized form of the Turkish
expression   "SAKA
TÜRKI""   meaning   "Saka
Turks" .
i)      The
name   KSHATRIYA ,
rearranged as   "S-YIKHARTA" (S-UIGARTA) ,
is a restructured and Sanskritized form of the Turkish expression   "aS
UYGUR'DU"     meaning   "was
one/peerless Uigur (Turks)"   (also
spelled as Uygur, Uyghur).
j)      The
name   KSHATRIYA ,
rearranged as   "KYRHISTA-A" ,   is
a restructured and Sanskritized form of the Turkish expression   "KURGIZ'TI
O"   (KIRGIZTI O;   KORGÖZTI
O)     meaning   "he
was the Kirgiz (Turks)" ;   "was
Glowing-Fire-Eye", "was the Sun (Kirgiz)" .  As can be seen, these
Turanian names are based on different expressions describing the sun.
k)      The
name   KSHATRIYA ,
rearranged as   "KHY-ASARIT" ,
is a restructured and Sanskritized form of the Turkish expression "GÖY-AZER'ITi"
(GÖK AZERI'DI (GÖK AZER TÜRKIDI, GÖK HAZAR   TÜRK'IDI))   meaning   "was
the Sky Azeri",  "was the Sky Hazar Turks" .
l)    The name   KSHATRIYA ,
rearranged as   "KHYS-ATA-RI" ( or   ATA-KHYS-RI ),
is a restructured and Sanskritized form of the Turkish expression   "GUZ
ATA   ERI" (ATA   GUZ   ERI,   ATA   OGUZ   ERI)    meaning   "Father
Oguz Man" , that is, "Tur/Turk/Oguz man" .
These definitions in Turkish identify the Kshatriya peoples as a mixture of
ancient Turkish tribes living together in the ancient Indian subcontinent where
they ruled, administered and protected the whole country against internal and
external forces.
Turkish word   ATA   means   "father;
ancestor" ,    ER   means   "man,
soldier, hero, husband" .
m)    The name   KSHATRIYA ,
rearranged as   "ISHAK-AYTR"     or   "SHAK-IATYR"   reveals
a restructured form of the Turkish expression   "IŞIK
ÖYÜTÜR"     meaning   "it
is House of   light" ,   "it
is House of   sun",   "it
is Sun Dynasty ";   "it
is house of enlightenment" .
Turkish word   IŞIK
(IŞI)   means   "light" .
n)    The name   KSHATRIYA ,
rearranged as   "TYRK-ISHA-A"   or   "TYRK-SHA-IA"   reveals
a restructured form of the Turkish expression   "TURK
IŞI ÖYÜ"     meaning   "Light
House of   TURK" ,   "Sun
House of   TURK",   "Sun
Dynasty of   TURK" ;   "the
enlightened house of   TURK" .
o)    The name   KSHATRIYA ,
rearranged as   "AY-ISHAKTR"   reveals
a restructured form of the Turkish expression   "AY
IŞIKTUR"     meaning   "it
is moonlight" .  In this context, probably the most known Kshatrian was   GOTAMA
(GAUTAMA) BUDDHA , by another name,    SHAKYAMUNI
BUDDHA   and he was from the
clan of    GOTAMA   (GAUTAMA)
GOTRA .
The clan name    GOTAMA (GAUTAMA)
GOTRA , rearranged as   "ATAM-GOU-TORGA" ,
is from Turkish   "ATAM
GÖY TÜRK'Ü" (ATAM GÖK TÜRK'Ü)   meaning   "my
father is from Sky-Turk clan" .  This brings to light a most significant
unknown aspect of the founder of Buddhism, that is, the wise man   GAUTAMA
BUDDHA .  It is no wonder that the Uyghur Turks were so much into Buddhism
and are so famous for their Cave Paintings about Buddhism in Bezeklik,
Uyghuristan. On top of that, it was the Turks who took Buddhism to China and
spread it there. It becomes clear that Buddhism was conceived and composed by
the Turanians in India.  But the 'Aryan' Brahmin priests   who
were mainly priests of sorcery and evil, intentionally instigated and
manipulated the fall of the Buddhism in India in order to secure their own
suptemacy in the community.  As usual they learned all kinds of knowledge from
Buddhism before they destroyed it.
p)    The name   KSHATRIYA ,
rearranged as   "KHYS-IATAR" ,
is a restructured and Sanskritized form of the Turkish expression "KÖZ   ÖYÜTUR"    meaning   "it
is House of Fire", "it is   House of
Sun" .   Turkish word   KÖZ   means   "glowing
fire" .
q)    The name   KSHATRIYA ,
rearranged as   "KHYS-IATAR" ,
is a restructured and Sanskritized form of the Turkish expression "GÖZ   ÖYÜTÜR"    meaning   "it
is House of Eye", "it is   House of Sun
and Moon" . Sun and Moon were called by the word   GÖZ in
Turkish.   Turkish word   GÖZ   means   "eye" .
Sun and Moon were also called   GÖZ   because
they were regarded as "eyes of the Sky-God".
All of these decipherments of the name   KSHATRIYA   identify
the Turanian people who collectively made up the Kshatriya peoples as being Oguz,
Turk, Saka, Kirgiz, Uigur (Uygur, Uyghur), and other Asian Turks living in vast
areas of ancient India and making up the Sun Empire and later on, the Moon
Empire of India.  So all of the ancient Turanian identity and history in India
are saved in the single word of    KSHATRIYA .
Thus, it is a one-word history indicator which shows the power of the Turkish
language as used then.
***
About the name
KSHATRIYA-3:
The following decipherments of the name   KSHATRIYA   identify
the activities of these peoples of ancient India.
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kshatriya
Kshatriya   ( Sanskrit :
क्षत्रिय,   kṣatriya   from   Sanskrit :
क्षत्र,   kṣatra )
or   Kashtriya ,
meaning warrior, is one of the four   varnas   (social
orders) in   Hinduism .
शर्म ब्राह्मणस्य वर्म क्षत्रियस्य गुप्तेति वैश्यस्य ( Pāraskara
Gṛhyasūtras   17.4 ).
It traditionally constituted the military and ruling elite of the Vedic-Hindu
social system outlined by the   Vedas   and
the   Laws
of Manu .
a)    The name   KSHATRIYA ,
rearranged as   "ASKARIYTH" ,
is a restructured and Sanskritized form of the Turkish expression ASKARIYaDI   meaning   "it
is the House of Army",    "it is the
House of Warriors" .  Turanian Tur/Turk/Oguz rulers are known as powerful
aristocrats. The Turkish word   "ORDU"   meaning   "army"   is
well known!
The above reference citing describes the   KSHATRIYA   warrors
with the Sanskrit expression   Pāraskara
Gṛhyasūtras   which
identifies them clearly with the Tur/Turk/Oguz army as follow:
b)    The so-called Hindu name   Pāraskara
Gṛhyasūtras ,
describing the Kshatriya warriors, rearranged letter-by-letter as    "PÂR-GARHUSAS-TYR- ASKAR A" ,
is a restructured and Sanskritized form of the Turkish expression   "BIR
GOR H USUZ TUR ASKERI" (BiR KORKUSUZ TÜRK ASKERi")     meaning   "He
is one fearless TUR/TURK soldier" . This revelation again verifies that
the   KASHTRIYAS   were
Turkish peoples and Turkish soldiers. Indian sources   described
them   as   "the
warrior people and the top administrators" .  Since their names have been
altered into "Sanskrit", recognizing them as Turkish speaking Turanians heve
been impossible before!
c)    The so-called Hindu
name   Pāraskara
Gṛhyasūtras ,   that
is, another name for   KSHATRIYA   in
Hinduism, rearranged letter-by-letter as    "PÂR-GARHUSAS- ASKAR TYR-A" ,
is a restructured and Sanskritized form of the Turkish expression   "BIR
GOR H USUZ ASKERTUR O" (BIR KORKUSUZ ASKERDIR O")     meaning   "He
is one fearless soldier" . The KASHTRIYAS   are
described in the Indian sources as   "the
warrior people and the top administrators" .
These Turkish expressions deciphered from the name   Pāraskara
Gṛhyasūtras   are
composed in Azerbaijan and Uigur Turkish dialects - which were also the Turkish
dialects used in ancient Anatolia, Sumeria, Iran, Middle East,  Masaria
(so-called "Egypt") and evidently in India in addition to Central Asia.  This
clearly explains in Turkish that the so-called   KSHATRIYA   or   KASHTRIYA clan,
that is, the people of the   "House
of OGUZ-TUR"   were indeed
the   "FEARLESS
TUR/TURK/OGUZ ARMY OF THE HOUSE OF OGUZ-TUR"   probably
since   some
6000 years ago in the ancient subcontinent of INDIA.  And the "Indians" were
very proud of them until Aryan Brahmin priests toppled them with sneaky and
outlandish politics and intrigues. Indian peoples lived their golden years
during the Sun Empire of the   TUR/TURK/OGUZ   peoples
ruling India.
d)      The
name   KSHATRIYA ,
rearranged as   "ARAYISHTK" ,
is a restructured and Sanskritized form of the Turkish expression "ARAYICITiK"
(ARAYICI iDiK)   meaning   "we
were searchers" , that is,  "we were searchers of knowledge" ,
in other words, "we were Bilgamesh"   -
i.e., the so-called   Gilgamesh .
e)      The
name   KSHATRIYA ,
rearranged as   "ARISHYTAK" ,
is a restructured and Sanskritized form of the Turkish expression "ARICIYDIK"   meaning   "we
were bee keepers" .   This is a
factual description of Turanians.
f)    The name   KSHATRIYA ,
rearranged as   "KYSH-IATAR" ,
is a restructured and Sanskritized form of the Turkish expression "KOŞ   ÖYÜTÜR"
(KOÇ   ÖYÜTÜR)    meaning   "it
is House of RAM" .   This refers to their "ram, sheep, lamb breeding
culture/economy.   This is a factual
description of Turanians because they raised countless numbers of sheep herds.   The
Turkish word KO Ş   (KOÇ)   meaning   "ram"   was
one of the logos of Turanian peoples, so-called   KUSHANS
(CUSHITES).
g)    The name   KSHATRIYA ,
rearranged as   "KYSHAR-ITA" ,
is a restructured and Sanskritized form of the Turkish expression "KOŞER   IDI"
(KOÇER   IDI)   meaning   "he
was Ram-Man, he was fighting man, he was courageous man" .  It also means   "hewas   ram/sheep/lamb
owning man" .
h)      The name   KSHATRIYA ,
rearranged as   "SHYK-ATI-AR" ,
is a restructured and Sanskritized form of the Turkish expression "ŞOK
ATI vAR" (ÇOK ATI VAR)   meaning   "they
have many horses" . This is a factual description of Turanians.
i)      The
name   KSHATRIYA ,
rearranged as   "ATSHI-ARYK" ,
is a restructured and Sanskritized form of the Turkish expression "ATŞI
ARIK" (ATÇI ERIK,   ATÇI ERIZ)   meaning   "we
are horse breeder men" . This is a factual description of Turanians.
j)    The name   KSHATRIYA ,
rearranged as   "KYSHAR-AT-I" ,
is a restructured and Sanskritized form of the Turkish expression "KOŞAR
AT   ÖYÜ   (EVI)"    meaning   "house
of running horse", "he was man of wild horse herds"   which
refers to their horse breeding and horse using culture/skills.  Turanians were
the ancient people who domesticated the horse.
Turkish word   KOŞAR   means   "runs" ,    AT   means   "horse" .
k)    The name   KSHATRIYA ,
rearranged as   "KYSH-AT-ARI" ,
is a restructured and Sanskritized form of the Turkish expression "KOŞU
AT   ERI"   meaning   "he
was running horse-man" ;   "he
was horse   owning man" .
l)    The name   KSHATRIYA ,
rearranged as   "ATI-KYSHAR" ,
is a restructured and Sanskritized form of the Turkish expression "ATI-KOŞAR"  meaning   "he
was man who used horse for pulling" .
m)      The name   KSHATRIYA ,
rearranged as   "YKHS-IATAR" ,
is a restructured and Sanskritized form of the Turkish expression "UKIZ
ÖYÜTÜR"   meaning   "it
is the House of bulls";   "it is the
House of cattle" .
n)      The name   KSHATRIYA ,
rearranged as   "KYSA-IATHR" ,
is a restructured and Sanskritized form of the Turkish expression "KUZU-ÖYÜTÜR   meaning   "it
is house of lambs" . Turanians have always been sheep breeders with large
herds.
o)    The name   KSHATRIYA ,
rearranged as   "KYSH-IATAR" ,
is a restructured and Sanskritized form of the Turkish expression "KUŞ   ÖYÜTUR"    meaning   "it
is House of Bird" . All branches of Oguz Turks had adopted a   "bird
of prey"   as one of their logo
symbols - such as, Horus the Falcon was the Masarian symbol of the Sun.
p)    The name   KSHATRIYA ,
rearranged as   "KYSH-AR-ITA" ,
is a restructured and Sanskritized form of the Turkish expression "KUŞ   ER   IDI"   meaning   "he   was   Bird-Man" .   Birds
of prey, such as eagles, falcons, hawks and others were their logos. Also, they
had domestic poultry   such as geese,   ducks,
chickens and others.     Turkish word   KUŞ   means   "bird" ,    IDI   means   "was".
***
Clearly, all of these defnitions identify this most ancient clan of   KSHATRIYA   of
India as belonging to the ancient Turanian Tur/Turk/Oguz peoples.    Additionally,
these decipherments identify some of the important activities of Kshatrias in
daily life.
The Turkish word   "IDI"   means   "he/she/it
was"   and is actually the past
tense of the verb   "olmak"
(to be)   in Turkish, such as IDIM
( I was ), IDIN   ( you
were ), IDI   ( he
was ),  IDIK   ( we
were ), IDINIZ   ( you
were )   and  IDILER ( they
were ) .  It has the verbal suffix forms of    -Di,
DI, -DU, -DÜ, -Ti, -TI, -TU and -TÜ .   This
Turkish suffix has been adapted into English as the suffix   -ITE ,
as in the term Canaanite,    to form
names denoting natives of a country.  This Turkish sourced suffix is also used
as an ending in many English noun formations  of many different fields.
[Search for the definition of -ITE in English dictionaries].   from French -ite,
via Latin -ita from Greek ītes.  Its origin   is
designated as being from Latin   -itus ,
past participle of verbs ending in   -ere   and   -ire .
The Latin form   "-ITUS"   is
nothing but the Turkish word "ITUZ"
(IDUZ)   as noted above.
Migration routes of the ancient Turanians from Central Asia.
***
About
the name Non-orthodox KSHATRIYA:
In addition to what we learned above about the Turanian identities of the   Kshatriayas   in
India, we have the following additional information about them again from
the Indian sources as given in different Wikipedia links.
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kshatriya
Non-orthodox
Kshatriyas
Though the   Ashtadhyayi   of   Pāṇini   (sutra
4.1.168-175) attests that the   Kamboja   and   Gandhara   were
very important Kshatriya kingdoms of   Uttarapatha   during
or prior to Pāṇinian times (500 BC), they came to be regarded as Sudras
for not following the teachings of the Vedas. See more on ancient   Kamboja
Kshatriyas .
The   Manusmriti ,
written about 200 AD states that the   Sakas   ( Scythians ),   Yavanas   (Ionian,   Indo-Greeks ),   Kambojas   ( Central
Asians ),   Paradas   ( Sinkiang ),   Pahlavas   ( Persians ),   Kiratas   ( Nepal ,   Assam ),
and   Daradas   ( Dards )   were
originally nobleKshatriyas but were relegated to the Barbaric (Vrishala)
status due to their neglect of the   Brahmanas   as
well as due to their non-observance of the sacred Brahmanical codes   (X/43-44).
[See the rest of this reference in
the above given Wikipedia link, or in my paper where I explain the
Non-Orthodox Kshatriyas in detail at url:   polatkaya.net/Non_Orthodox_Kshatriyas.html ].
These ancient so-Called " KSHATRIAYAS "
are identified as   the Sakas
(Scythians), that is, The Saka Turks, Yavanas (supposedly Indo-Greek
Ionians, that is, Turkish Ayhans), the Kambojas (Central Asians), Paarada (Sinkiang,
that is, Uigur Turks from Eastern Turkistan), Pahlavas (so-called "Persians"
from Iran, that is, "Alav Beys" or "AL Baß" Turks), Kiratas (from Nepal,
Assam, that is,from Turkish   "KIR
ATA"  (KUR ATA)   meaning    "man
from mountains")   and
Daradas (that is, Turkish "Tatars" (Dadars)).
The title   "NON-ORTHODOX
KSHATRIYAS"   is
misleading.  The Kshatriya names given above in this source are Turanian Tur/Turk/Oguz
peoples whose Turkish identities are implied to be different from the
Orthodox Kshatriyas and thus belonging to groups other than Turks.  This is
a linguistic trick using verbology to distance Turanians from themselves.
They were Central Asian Turanians who moved to different parts of Asia,
Europe and Africa (as shown in the above migration map) and created all
kinds of differing civilizations.  Even the term "orthodox" verifies this
fact.
The term " orthodox " is defined as   "of
a person or their views, esp. religious or political ones, or other beliefs
or practices,  conforming to what is generally or traditionally accepted as
right or true; established and approved".  ORIGIN late Middle English : from
Greek   orthodoxos   (probably
via ecclesiastical Latin), from   orthos
‘straight or right’ + doxa ‘opinion.’   [Oxford
American Dictionaries].
The term   ORTHODOX   has
the letter X in it which is a bogus symbol representing the multi-letter
combinations of KS or EKS or IKS.  With this information substituted for X,   ORTHODOX   becomes   ORTHODOKS .
The term   ORTHODOKS ,
rearranged as "TOR-OKOSTH" , or   "TORK-OOSTH"   is
the altered, restructured, and disguised form of the Turkish expression   "TUR
OGUZ'DI"   or    "TÜRK
OgUZ'DI"   meaning   "he
is Tur/Turk/Oguz (peoples)" .
This indicates that the people who originally  invented religion were the
Turanian Tur/Turk/Oguz peoples.  The so-called "Orthodox" Greeks usurped
this ancient concept from the Turanians, and, by altering, restructuring and
Hellenizing it - claimed it as their own.    This
deception has come   to present
times while the original owners of this ancient religion, that is, the Tur/Turk/Oguz
poples, have been obliterated!   Once again, I must note that the names TUR,
TURK and OGUZ are not only the ancestral names of Turanians but they are
also the names of the ancient Turanian Sky-God, Sun-God and Moon-God
concepts. The ancient Aryan and Semitic priests have conveniently associated
these names with the Greeks and the Jews rather than the Turks. This is, of
course, nothing but stealing the ancient identities of the Turanian Tur/Turk/Oguz
peoples, their religious names and their ancient civilization.   The above
citing in Wikipedia, by using the term "Non-Orthdox Kshatriyas", alienates
the ancient Turanians of India from themselves as  the Sun-God, Moon-God and
Sky-God worshipping peoples.
The above etymology given by this source relates the term to Greek   orthodoxos   without
any hint that it was the names   TUR,
TURK   and   OGUZ   of
the Turanians, but gives a totally different etymological concept.  It says
that the term is " from Greek orthodoxos   (probably
via ecclesiastical Latin), from   orthos
‘straight or right’ + doxa ‘opinion.’   "
This is a very interesting hint as I will show below:
Even in this concept, the Greek term   ORTHODOXOS ,
in which the letter X is a bogus letter as I noted above, and substituting
KS for X,  becomes   ORTHODOKSOS .
The term   ORTHODOKSOS ,
rearranged as   "DOKHRO-SOS TO" ,
is the altered, restructured and disguised form of the Turkish expression   "DOGRU
SÖZDI"   meaning   "it
is correct words", "it is straight word", "it is right sayings".   We
see that even in this concept the source of the term is pure Turkish!  This
is again another verification that the source and the concept of the term   ORTHODOXOS   did
not belong to the Greeks or their manufactured language.   The fact is that
the Greek linguists, who were engineering a Greek language from Turkish,
stole the Turanian Turkish language and restructured its words and
descriptive expressions in a so-called "Greek" format and thus alienated
them from Turkish.  With this crafty but rather evil discovery of theirs,
they not only stole the Turkish, but also the Turanian religion,
civilization and even the peoples!
***
Recent KSHATRIAS
in A.D. time duration:
We have the following interesting and
enlightening information about Kshatriyas from the author of the internet
site at link http://www.gurjari.net/ico/Mystica/html/khatriya.htm   :
" Kshatriya   literally
means   "protector
of gentle people" . Second in the social hierarchy of the caste system
(see   Varna ),
the Kshatriyas were kings and warriors. They were said to have evolved from
the arms of Brahma , signifying that
their role in society was the protection of people and livestock. The Hindus
maintain that only a Kshatriya had the right to rule, though Brahmin rulers
are not unknown. They were supposed to be brave and fearless, and to live
and die by a code of honour and loyalty. They could eat meat and drink
liquor and their most exalted death was to die in battle.
The   Puranas   say
that   Parashurama
in his time destroyed all the men of the Kshatriya race.   Since
there was no one left to rule, anarchy prevailed. The Brahmins realised that
a class of rulers was required. They held a sacrifice  near   Mt.
Abu (Rajasthan), and from the fire pit emerged four clans: the Parmars,
Chauhans, Parihars and Solankis. These fire-born clans Agnikula) were called
Rajputs.   Therefore,
according to the Puranas, other than these Rajputs, those presently known as
Kshatriyas are progeny of Brahmins who had married Kshatriya women.
There are also leading Rajputs clans that   claim
descent from the sun and the moon   and
accordingly labeled themselves as Suryavanshi
and Chandravanshi.   One
theory holds that in the 6th century AD, after the death of   arshavardhana ,
the powerful ruler of   Thaneshvara ,
there was a power vacuum in north India.   To
maintain the social order, the Brahmins legitimized clans of invading
adventurers from Central Asia as Agnikula, Suryavanshi and Chandravanshi
Kshatriyas."
The very fact that   "the
Brahmins legitimized clans of invading adventurers from Central Asia as
Agnikula, Suryavanshi and Chandravanshi Kshatriyas"   is testimony
that the ancient Kshatriyas of the Sun Empire and the Moon Empire of India
were Central Asiatic Tur/Turk/Oguz peoples. In this regard, see also my
paper, at link, http://www.polatkaya.net/Sun_Empire_of_Ancient_India.html .    After
exterminating the original Turanian   Kshatriyas,   the
Brahmins now asked these new waves of Central Asiatic Turanian peoples to
govern and protect the people of ancient India because the religious Brahmin
clergy (exploiters) did not know how to rule people with justice and
nobility!  We note that, these Central Asiatic Turanians were also called   AGNIKULA   (meaning
"Family of the Fire God", "fire-born clans" or the "Sun-God people"). Now
let us understand the meaning of this term.
The term   AGNIKULA ,
rearranged as   "GIN-CULA-A"   or    "GUN-CILA-A" ,
is from the Turkish expression   "GÜN
KULU O" meaning   "he
is the loyal servant of the Sun" . The sun worshipping Turanians were
the royal servants of the Sun.  Since their kings also took the kingly
personality of being the Sun-God, the kings' subjects regarded themselves as
the loyal servants of the king as well.
Turkish word   GÜN   means   "sun"   (which
is the most magnificent fire of them all).  The Sanskrit term   AGNI   is
made up from Turkish   "gün"   -
also meaning   "fire" .
Turkish word   KUL   means   "loyal
servant" .
They were also called by the name   Rajput .
The term Rajput is defined as   "a
member of a Hindu military caste claiming Kshatriya descent."
Although this term   RAJPUT   is
thought to be from the Sanskrit term   " rājan "   meaning   "king"   +   "putra"   meaning "son" ,
[Oxford American Dictionaries], thus making them as   "sons
of Kings" , actually, the source of the term   RAJPUT   is   as
follows:
The name   RAJPUT ,
rearranged as   "PAJ-TUR" ,
is the altered and reformatted form of the Turkish expression   "BAŞ
TUR"  meaning   "The
Head Tur (man)", "The Top Tur (man)" .  Secondly, the term means   "he
is head" ,   "he
is top" . The   "head
man" of a country is its king. This definition describes them as the
rulers and kings of India as the name Kshatriya means rulers and warriors.
By reformatting the Turkish term   "BAŞ
TUR"   ( BAŞTUR )
into   RAJPUT ,
the   TUR/TURK/OGUZ   identity
of the Kshatriya   people
has been obliterated.  Additionally this term   BAŞTUR   is
also the term   PAŞATUR   meaning
"He is the top General of the military". This makes perfect sense because   the
term Kshatriya also means "warrior".  Then the name so-called RAJPUT ,
claimed to be   "a
member of a Hindu military caste claiming Kshatriya descent",   is
an altered form of the Turkish term PAŞATUR .
This ties the so-called Hindu military   RAJPUT s
to the Turkish military - that is, the most ancient military organization of
the world!
Similarly, the name     RAJPUTANA ,
rearranged as   "PAJ-TANRA-U" ,
is the altered and restructured form of the Turkish expression   "BAŞ
TANRU O" (TEPE TANRI O)   meaning   "He
is the Top God" . Thus the king who acquires such titles associates
himself with God. Additionally, it means the   "Head
is the God"   which refers
to the human head as being a creator god.
The above reference saying that:   " They
held a sacrifice  near   Mt.
Abu (Rajasthan), and from the fire pit emerged four clans: the Parmars,
Chauhans, Parihars and Solankis. These fire-born clans Agnikula) were called
Rajputs.   Therefore,
according to the Puranas, other than these Rajputs, those presently known as
Kshatriyas are progeny of Brahmins who had married Kshatriya women "
implies that there was a genocide of the Kshatriya men by the   Aryan   Brahmin.
The place name   RAJASTHAN ,
rearranged as   "JAR-SHTAN-A" ,
is the altered and restructured form of the Turkish expression "YER
IŞITAN O"   meaning   "it
is that which lights up the earth" , that is,   "it
is the sun" .  Thus the   "fire
pit"   mentioned in the
above citing from which the four Kshatriya clans were borne, refers to the
Sun country of those clans who were Sun God   believers.
Additionally, the name   RAJASTHAN ,
rearranged as   "AS-AJ-TANRH" ,
is the altered and restructured form of the Turkish expression   "AS
AY-TANRI   " (BIR AY-TANRI) "
meaning   "one
Moon-God" .  In this case, the reference is to the Moon-God of
Turanians in Turkish.
Finally, the name   RAJASTHAN ,
rearranged as   "AS-TANRH-AJ   " ,
is the altered and restructured form of the Turkish expression "AS
TANRI ÖY"   meaning   "one
house of God" .  This refers to all of these Kshatriya peoples as   "House
of One GOD"   but again in
Turkish!
***
About the name RAJPUT:
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/History_of_Rajputs
"The   Rajputs   (from
the   Sanskrit   tatpurusha   compound   rājaputra ,
"son of a king"), are a ruling class of the   Indian
subcontinent and   south
east Asia . In
the   Hindustani
language , those
belonging to the   Kshatriya / Chattari   Varna   of   Hindus   are
generally referred to as   "Rajputs" .
They ruled in the Indian sub-continent from 6th century to 20th century and   south
east Asia   from
9th to 15th centuries. Nepal was the last empire of Rajputs which ended in
1950. At the time of India's independence in 1947, Rajputs ruled in the   "overwhelming
majority"   of the   princely
states   of   Rajasthan   and   Saurashtra ,   where
the largest number of princely states were found. [1 ]   Many
Rajputs claim descent from   Rama [2 ]   and   Krishna . [3 ]   "
Let us understand the following names from this reference:
The name   TATPURUSHA ,
rearranged as   "TUR-PASHA TU" ,
is the altered and reformatted form of the Turkish expression
"TUR   PAŞATU "    meaning   "He
is the Tur (Turk) military general", "he is the Top Tur (man)" .  This
makes the Rajput as military men, warriors as Kshatriya people are said to
be.  Turkish Generals ( PAŞAS )
are not only the rulers of an army unit, but quite frequently are the rulers
of the country.  Thus, the decipherment of this Sanskrit term clearly admits
that the Rajputs were Turkish military rulers.
Additionally,   the name   TATPURUSHA ,
rearranged as   "ATU-PASHTUR " ,
is the altered and reformatted form of the Turkish expression   "ADU   PAŞTUR "   meaning   "his
name is 'Head'" .  Thus, the Rajputs are the top men as described by
this Turkish expression!
***
a)    The name   RAJAPUTRA ,
that is, another form of the name   TATPURUSHA   for
Rajputs, rearranged as   "AR-PAJATU R" ,
is the altered and reformatted form of the Turkish expression   "ER   PAŞ ATUR "   meaning   "He
is Hero General",    "He is warrior
General" .    Thus both names
of   TATPURUSHA   and   RAJAPUTRA   are
different forms of the same concept but composed in Turkish.
b)    Additionally, the name   RAJAPUTRA ,
rearranged as   "TUR-PAJA -AR" ,
is the altered and reformatted form of the Turkish expression   "TUR   PAŞA
ER "    meaning   "Tur
(Turk) top military man", "Turk General " .
c)    The name   RAJAPUTRA ,
rearranged as   "AR-PAJUTA R" ,
is the altered and reformatted form of the Turkish expression   "ER PAŞ UTUR "   meaning   "is
head of man"   which refers
both being the   "ruling
top man of men" ,   "ruling
top man of soldiers"   and
also to   "head
of man"   which rules the
people!
***
a)    The name   RAJASTHAN ,
being a country name, rearranged as   " AJARSTHAN" ,
is the altered and reformatted form of the Turkish expression   "AYERISTAN "    meaning   "Moon-God-istan";
"Moon-God country" .
b)    The name   RAJASTHAN ,
rearranged as   "TANRA-JASH " ,
is the altered and reformatted form of the Turkish expression
"TANRI YÜZÜ "    or    "TANRI
GÖZÜ "   meaning   "Face
of God"   or alternatively " Eye
of God"   respectively. Moon
was regarded as one eye of the creator God among ancient Turanians.
***
a)    The name   SAURASHTRA ,
another Rajput state in India, rearranged as   "SARU-ASHATR" ,
is the altered and reformatted form of the Turkish expression   "SARI
IŞITUR "    meaning   "it
is yellow (golden) light"   which
refers to the light of the sun and also to the moonlight (sunlight reflected
by the moon).
b)    The name   SAURASHTRA ,
rearranged as   "TUR-ASHA-ARS" ,
is the altered and reformatted form of the Turkish expression "TUR
I Ş I
ERIZ "    meaning   "we
are enlightened Tur man" .  This describes the Kshatria people as not
only   "light
worshipping" people but also as learned people.  Corresponding to this
Turanian concept, there is the Sanskrit term   RISHI   which
is from Turkish "IŞI
ER"   meaning   "enlightened
man" .
***
What we observe here is that
in this   Kshatriya   time
period, the ancient Turanian religion, that is, the first and foremost
Sun-God religion, gave way to a Moon-God religion installed by the
manipulations of the Brahmin/Jehova clergy.  They say that a sun eclipse
took place during the KURUKSHETRA war where the   Kshatriyas
were annhiliated.    This is
secretly referred to as the   "Eclipse
of the Sun"     (Güneß
Tutulmasi)   - literally
meaning that the Moon gets   temporarily   in
front of the Sun (and having nothing to do with the Sun religion) - but
metaphorically referring to the fact that this Brahmin clergy and their
collaborators manipulated the extinction of the ancient Turanian Sun
religion in the hearts and minds of people and installed a religion based on
the Moon God - which was also a Turanian God!
This kind of mythology has also
been used in the so-called   "crucifixion
of Isa"   implying that Isa
was not a real person but rather a personification of the Moon - as Rama was
also a personification of the moon.  Therefore, Moon believing came to be
much more in fashion. But for the Turanians, this was not new, because since
ancient times they were the Sky-God, Sun-God and  Moon-God believers. All of
these decipherments of ancient names of the ruling peoples in ancient India
make the ancient Indians as Central Asiatic Turkish peoples and most of the
present Indian peoples as the descendants of the ancient Turkish peoples -
although they have been Indo-Aryanized and converted to all kinds of
different identities.
But, whether there is a
Sun eclipse, or, an eclipse of the Sun religion, that is, the sun religion
is replaced with a Moon religion, the SUN is never really lost - no matter
what man does artificially or deceptively or metaphorically, the Sun is
still there and does what it does best to light up, heat up and give life to
all the beings that have found life on earth!  The Sun (with its light and
heat) is the most logical and perfect entity to be worshipped as a God - and
this is what the ancient Turanians did.  In fact, the worshipping of any Sun
(star) by the inhabitants of its local planets, would apply across the
universe.  This makes the ancient Sun-worshipping Turanian OGUZ religion not
only the first religion on earth - but also a universal religion!
***
The above reference states that the new Central Asians coming to
India were called   Parmars,
Chauhans, Parimars and Solankis .  Let us now identify in Turkish
these names that appear in this above reference citing.
1.    The name
PARMARS:
This name is described in Wikipedia at link   http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Paramara   as:
"Paramara (also
known as   Parmara   and   Parmar   and   Panwar )
is a   Rajput,
Yadav [1] and   Gurjar [2][3]
clan of India.
A section of the
Paramaras formed a prominent ruling dynasty of medieval India, with their
capital at Dhar, from the 9th century to the 14th century.[2] In modern
times, the Paramaras are located throughout northern, western and central
India. Paramaras are also spread throughout the nations of the former
British Empire, particularly Canada and the United Kingdom, as well as in
the USA and in Sindh, Pakistan, where they constitute 40% of the population
of the Dadu district; here they are called Panhwars. The Ponwar clan of the
Marathas, who ruled the states of Dewas, Dhar, Rajgarh in Malwa and
Chhatarpur in Bundelkhand from the 18th century to the mid-20th century,
claim the same descent as the Paramaras."
Thus, the descendants of these medieval Kshatriyas called Parmar, Paramara,
Parmara and Gurjar Turanians are still in India, but they are mostly Indo-Aryanized.
a)    The name   PARMARS ,
rearranged as   "PAR-MA-RS" ,
is the altered and reformatted form of the Turkish expression   "BIR
MA ERIZ" (BIR AY ERIZ)    meaning   "We
are the One-Moon Men" .  As the story above states they   claimed
to be "descent from the sun and the moon", that is to say, they were
Turanian Sun and Moon worshippers.
b)    The name   PARAMARA ,
rearranged as   "PAR-MA-ARA" ,
is the altered and reformatted form of the Turkish expression   "BIR
MA ERI" (BIR AY ERI)    again
meaning   "One-Moon
Men" .  As the story above states, they   claimed
"descent from the sun and the moon", that is to say, they were Turanian Sun
and Moon worshippers, or, the children of the sun and the moon.
Turkish word   MA
(AY)   means   "moon" ,    BIR   means   "one" .    ER   means   "man;
soldier; hero; husband" .
***
2.    The name
CHAUHANS:
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chauhan
"Chohan ,   Chohhan ,   Chauhan   or   Chouhan   ( Punjabi :
ਚੌਹਾਨ,   Hindi :
चौहान) - A
gotra
(lineage) found among the   Jats , [2 ] Rajputs , [3 ]   and   Gurjars . [4 ]   Chauhan
is a clan who ruled parts of northern India in the Middle Ages. Chauhan are
famous for Maharaja   Prithviraj
Chauhan , who
defeated   Mohammad
Ghori   in
the First Battle of Tarain, Ghori was captured in this battle but his life
was spared by Maharaja   Prithviraj
Chauhan .
However, in another invasion,   Ghori   was
able to defeat the Chauhan king in the second battle also fought in the
plains of   Tarain .
"
These so-called   "Chohan ,   Chohhan ,   Chauhan   or   Chouhan"   peoples
are very much the   GÖYHAN
(GÖKHAN, GÖKTÜRK) Turkish tribes of Central Asia. It is said that they
were descended from someone named   DHUNDHAR   which
is an altered form of the Turkish name   " DÜNDAR " .
Although the name   DÜNDAR   is
a man's name in Turkish, the  Indo-Aryanized name of DHUNDHAR ,
rearranged as   "DUR-HANDH" ,
is the altered and reformatted form of the Turkish expression   "TURHANDI" meaning   "he
is Tur Lord", "he is Turk Lord" .  This again identifies them as
Turanian Tur/Turk/Oguz peoples. Evidently their Turkish identity has been
disguised!    TURHAN   is
also a very widely used Turkish name for a man.
Even the name   GOTRA ,
stated as being the lineage of   Chouhan ,
rearranged as   "TORG-A" ,   is
the altered and reformatted form of the Turkish expression   "TÖRK
O" (TÜRK O, TÜRK SOYUNDAN)   meaning   "he
is Turk", "his lineage is Turk" .  In view of all these   hidden
but   deciphered information, let
us understand the name   Chauhan   or   Chouhan .
The name   CHAUHANS
(CHOUHANS) , rearranged as   "CHOU-HAN-S" ,
is the altered and reformatted form of the Turkish expression   "GÖY-HAN-IZ"
(GÖK HAN-IZ)   meaning   "We
are the Sky Lords" .  The Turkish name   GÖKHAN   was
the name of one of the six sons of   OGUZ
KAGAN .  Similarly named are the   GÖK
TÜRKS   of the Gök Turk
Empire of Central Asia. GÖKHAN   was
the name of one of the six sons of   OGUZ
KAGAN .
Interestingly, when the name   CHAUHANS
(CHOUHANS)   is rearranged
as   "OCHUS-HAN" ,
what we get is the altered and reformatted form of the Turkish expression   "OGUZ
HAN"   meaning   "Lord
OGUZ"   who is the father of   GÖKHAN   in
the Turkish OGUZ KAGAN   epic
story. The name Oguz, in addition to being the ancestor name of Turkish
peoples, was also a name of the Sky-God, Sun-God and the Moon-God in
Turkish.
From all of this we
see that the Turkish Oguz Kagan Epic is not just "mythology" but rather
embellished historical story!
At this point I will note that the English plurality suffix   -S   or   -ES   is
the altered form of the Turkish plurality suffix    -IZ,
iZ, -UZ, -ÜZ   verbal suffix for the first person plural case.   That
is why the English word   "KHANS"   meaning   "lords"   is
nothing but the Turkish word   "HANIZ"   meaning   "we
are lords" . Thus the source of this so-called "English" plurality
suffix is again from Turkish - contrary to any other etymology given for it.
The term   KHAN   is
defined as   "a
title given to rulers and officials in central Asia, Afghanistan, and
certain other Muslim countries. Any of the successors of Genghis Khan,
supreme rulers of the Turkish, Tartar, and Mongol peoples and emperors of
China in the Middle Ages" . [Oxford American Dictionaries].
It should be noted that the Turkish word   HAN
(KHAN)   was in use in
Turkish far earlier than the name   GENGIZ
KHAN (CENGIZ HAN) .  So this title does not start with Gengiz Khan as
mentioned in the above definition of the   Oxford
American Dictionaries.  This deceptive definition gives the wrong impression
that this Turkish   title is a
"recent" one which is contrary to the facts! This Turkish title is also the
root of the so-called Semitic name   "NOAH" .
The so-called "Semitic" name   NOAH   is
nothing but the altered form of the Turkish expression   "HAN
O"   meaning   "He
is Lord" .   Of course, in
this context, it is the name of the   Sky-God   and   Man
the god .    Similarly, the
name   HAN   in
the    "HAN
DYNASTY"   of China is
nothing but the Turkish word   "HAN" .    The
ancient Turanians have been in the geography that is presently called China
for a much longer time than is admitted.  Curiously such linguistic
deceptions have   been designed to
mislead the public.  Additionally, they have been used to blacken (and thus
make invisible) any names related to the Turks or to ancient Turkish
history.  It should be noted that the term "TURKISH" does not only apply to
the Turks of Anatolia but also to the Turks all over the world!
***
3.    The name PARIHARS:
The name is explained in Wikipedia link at url   http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Parihar_Meenas
as follows:
"Parihar   or   Pratihar
Meenas   is
one of the sub group of Meenas. They are mainly found in the region of Bundi
city. They were initial builder of Bundi and Bundi is named after the   King
Bandu Meena . In ancient time Bundi was called   “Bandu-Ka-Nal" ,
Nal means “narrow ways” and later the region is governed by   Rao
Deva Hara . He took over Bundi from Jaita Meena in 1342 and he renamed
the whole area as   Haravati
or Haroti. "
a)    The name   BANDU-KA-NAL ,
being the name the Bundi city,   rearranged
as   "BAN-U-AL-KAND" ,   is
the altered form of Turkish word   "BEN
O 'AL KAND'" (BEN O 'AL KENT')   meaning   "I
am that 'Red City'" .  This definition in Turkish indicates that the
city name was Turkish " AL
KENT"   and it was built
after the Sun-God. We have the name   KAND
(KENT) , meaning "city", also in the name of the ancient Central Asian
city of   "SAMERKAND" .
Wikipedia, at url http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Samarkand ,   writes
about  the city of Samarkand as being   "one
of the   oldest
inhabited cities   in
the world, prospering from its location on the trade route between   China   and
the   Mediterranean   ( Silk
Road ). At times
Samarkand has been one of the greatest cities of   Central
Asia ."   I
believe the name of this Turanian city comes from the ancient name of "SUMER-KENT"   meaning   "the
Sumer City" , indicating that the ancient city was either built by the
Tuaranian Sumers or after their name by other Turanians. After all, the
Sumerians were Turanians and Central Asians who migrated to Irak in ancient
times.
b)    Alternatively,   the name   BANDU-KA-NAL ,   rearranged
as   "BAN-AL-KUNDA" ,   is
the altered form of Turkish word   "BEN
'AL KÜNDÜ'"   meaning   "I
am 'Red Sun'" .  This definition in Turkish explains not only the
godly title of the   King
BANDU MEENA   by means of
which he claimes himself the Sun God deity, but also it indicates that the
city he built was named after the Sun-God.  Kshatriyas were sun-worshipping
Turanians.
c)    Even the name   MEENAS   in
the sub group name   PRATIHAR   MEENAS   ,
rearranged a   "MEN
-AS" , is the altered form of Turkish word   "MEN
AS" (MANAS)   meaning   "I
am One", "I am single" .   This
descriptive adjective   in Turkish
refers to the God  Turanians in one hand, and also to this   Parihar   group
of Central Asians. The name   MANAS   is
also the name of the famed   MANAS
epic   of the Kirgiz Turks. Similarly the name   MINOS   (i.e.,
"MEN-AS, MEN-US, MEN-OZ (MEN OGUZ))   Minoan
civilization in the Aegean Sea (some 1500 B,C, or earlier) also identifies
with this name!  I should also note that the so-called English term "MONASTERY"   is
also derived from this Turkish word   "MANAS"
or "MEN AS" .
The Greek term   "monas"   meaning   "unit,
one" , is nothing but the Turkish   "MEN
AS" (MANAS)   meaning   "I
am One", "I am single" .    The
term " monastery ' is defined as    "a
community of persons, esp. monks or nuns, living under religious vows" and
"the place of residence occupied by such persons."    The
term   MONASTERY ,
rearranged as   "MEN-AS-R-OYT" ,
is the altered and reformatted form of the Turkish expression   "MEN
AS ER ÖYTÜ"   meaning   "I
am the house of One-Man", "I am the house of God"   or   "I
am the house of God believers" .   Thus
not only the linguistic source is Turkish but also the religious concept is
Turkish!
Additionally, the   term   MONASTERY ,
rearranged as   "MEN-OST-YAR" ,
is the altered and reformatted form of the Turkish expression   "MEN
ÜST YER"   meaning   "I
am the the top place" .   The
so-called "Greek"   SEMELE   Monastery   in
Turkey is one such place built into high cliffs.
d)    The name   PARIHARS ,
rearranged as   "PIR-AHA-RS" ,
is the altered and reformatted form of the Turkish expression   "BIR
AGA ERIZ"    meaning   "We
are One-Lord Men", "we are noble men" .  This Turkish definition
describes this group as One Sky-God worshipping people as all Turanians
were.  The term   "One-Lord" ,
(i.e.,   BIR
AGA   in Turkish), in one
meaning, refers to   "One
Sky God"   and in the
second, refers to the   PARIHARS   as
being the   "lord"   peoples.
As rulers and warriors, they were so.
The above reference states that   "the
region of Bundi city was later governed by   Rao
Deva Hara . He took over Bundi from Jaita Meena in 1342 and he renamed
the whole area as   Haravati   or   Haroti ."
The name    "RAO
DEVA HARA " is the   Aryanized
form of the Turkish title   "O
ER KARA DEV"   meaning   "that
man is the Black Giant (monster)" .
It is no wonder that he changed the older city   name
so-called   BANDU-KA-NAL ,
that is,   "AL
KAND" (AL KENT)   in
Turkish, to   Haravati
or Haroti.      The
name HARAVATI , is the restructured
form of the Turkish name   "KARA
EVDI"   meaning   "it
is Black House" , and alternatively,
in the form of Turkish   "KARA
EVIDI" , it means   "it
is House of Kara" .    Thus,
the name   HARAVATI   is
after the name   HARA   (i.e., "KARA"   in
Turkish).
***
Central Asiatic Gurjars:
The   Parihars   or   Pratihar   Meenas   are
also identified with the Central Asiatic   Gurjars .
We have the following information from Wikipedia at link:    http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gurjara-Pratihara
Gurjar   is
the name of an Indian community or ethnic group with several theories about
its origin. According to one theory,   the
Gurjars came to India from Central Asia [6 ] ,
while according to another view, they were locals who lived in obscurity
before their rise on the political stage of India. [7 ]
The word " Pratihara "
means   keeper
or protector , and was used by the   Gurjara-Pratihara
rulers   as
self-designation. The Pratihara rulers claim descent from the Hindu
mythological character   Lakshmana ,
who had performed the duty of a door-keeper ("pratihara") for his elder
brother Rama. However, the author Sailendra Nath Sen believes that the title
" Pratihara " is derived from one of
the kings in the line holding the office of a   Pratihara
("protector")   in the   Rashtrakuta   court. [8 ]
A 1966
book published by the Directorate of Public Relations of   Rajasthan   mentions
that the kings of this dynasty came to be known as the Pratiharas, because
they guarded the north-western borders of the Indian subcontinent against
foreign invasions. [9 ]
In view of this reference, let us analyse these names:
a)    The name   GURJARA ,
rearranged letter-by-letter as   "UJGAR-AR" ,
is the altered and reformatted form of the Turkish expression   "UYGUR
ERi"     meaning   "Uigur
man", "Uygur (Uyghur) Turks" .  This definition in Turkish clearly
identifies GURJARA   people
with the Uyghur Turks.  This also verifies the statement that   "Gurjars
came to India from Central Asia" .  Eastern Turkistan, presently   called
the   " Xinjiang
Uyghur Autonomous Region"   of
the People's Republic of China,   is
the original homelands of the Uyghur Turks. [See link   http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Xinjiang ].   The
Turanian Uyghur Turks were one of the earliest and most celebrated groups in
ancient India.  Their civilization was renowned.
b)     The   Gurjara-Pratihara
rulers   called themselves
as   " Pratihara "
meaning   "keeper
or protector" .    The name   PRATIHARAS ,
rearranged as   "PIR-ATA-ARHS" ,
is the altered and reformatted form of the Turkish expression   "BIR
ATA ERIZ"   meaning   "we
are One-Father man " .
These   Gurjara-Pratihara   rulers,
who regard themselves as   "One
Father man" , surely regard the people as their own family and are
morally required to be the " protector "
rulers of the peoples they rule, as they are the protectors of their own
immediate families.  This Turkish definition   also
identifies the so-called Gurjara  (i.e.,   "Uighur"   Turks)
as   "ancestor"   people.
Furthermore, this definition associates the rulers with the   One-Sky-Father-God   concept
since the ancient   Turanian rulers
also regarded themselves as personification of God. Ancient Turanian   Tur/Turk/Oguz
peoples were   "One
Sky-God"   worshippingpeople.
So the   Gurjara-Pratihara   were
Turanian and central Asiatic people.
Turkish word   ATA   means   "father,
ancestor" ,   ER   means   "man;
husband; soldier; hero" ,   BIR   means   "one" .
c)    Additionally, the composite term   GURJARA-PRATIHARA ,   meaning   "keeper
or protector" ,   rearranged
letter-by-letter as "PIR-GARUJAR-ATA-ARH" ,
is the altered and reformatted form of the Turkish expression   "BIR
GORUYOR ATA ERI" (BIR KORUYOR ATA ERI)     meaning   "one
protector father man" .  By these definitions, the so-called   GURJAR   people
(i.e., the UIGUR (UYGUR / UYGHUR Turks) ,
who came from central Asia to India, fit the definitions given in the above
references.  They called themselves   "one
protector father man"   which
is the meaning attributed to them in the above given reference citing.
In the Sanskrit saying in the reference above, although, the   meaning   "protector"   is
attributed to the word    PRATIHARA ,
actually this meaning is embedded in the name   GURJARA   as
this name has the Turkish word   "GORUR"   or   "GORUYAR"   meaning "protects"   embedded
in it. As a result of reformatting the original Turkish text by the writers
of the Indianized forms of the historical information, the   "protector"   aspect
has been reasigned to the newly structured word   PRATIHARA .
This is expected because in manufacturing words for the "Indo-European"
languages from Turkish, this kind of assignment of meanings to words
linguistically unrelated to the meaning was a common practice.
d)    This is also verified by the saying that   "The
Pratihara rulers claimed descent from the Hindu mythological character LAKSHMANA "   who   had
performed the duty of a   door-keeper
("pratihara")   for his
elder brother Rama.   The term   RAMA   is
the personification of the Moon. In this context, the name   LAKSHMANA ,
rearranged letter-by-letter as   "MAN-AL-SHAK" ,
is the altered and reformatted form of the Turkish expression   "MEN
AL IŞIK"     meaning   "I
am Red-Light", "I am sunlight" .
Mythologically, the sunlight is indeed a   "door
keeper"   of the moon
because it continuously shines on it (like a lamp at a gate).  Additionally,
this definition clearly identifies the   GURJARA   people,
that is, the   "Uigur
Turks"   with the sun and   moon
worshipping. Furthermore, with this definition in Turkish, the   Uigur   (i.e.,
the so-called   "GURJAR" )
kings also identified themselves as the   Red
(golden) Sun-God , that is,    "AL
IŞIK TANRI"   in
Turkish .
Another reference citing also states that   Gurjara
kings   (i.e.,   "Uyghur"   Turks)
ruled the   The   Rashtrakuta
Empire   that
covered large parts of southern, central and northern parts of India.  About
the name   RASHTRAKUTA   ,
the Wikipedia at link http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rashtrakuta_Dynasty   gives
the following information:
"The   Rashtrakuta
Empire   ( Kannada :
ರಾಷ್ಟ್ರಕೂಟ) was a                            royal   dynasty   ruling
large parts of southern, central and northern   India   between
the sixth and the 10th centuries. During this period they ruled as several
closely related, but individual clans .   The
earliest known Rashtrakuta   inscription   is
a 7th century   copper
plate grant   that
mentions their rule from   Manpur   in
the   Malwa   region
of modern   Madhya
Pradesh . Other
ruling Rashtrakuta clans from the same period mentioned in inscriptions were
the   kings   of
Achalapur which is modern   Elichpur   in   Maharashtra   and
the rulers of   Kannauj .
Several controversies exist regarding the origin of these early Rashtrakutas,
their native home and their language."
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kannauj
"Kannauj   ( Hindi :
कन्नौज,   Urdu :   کنوج ),
also spelt   Kanauj ,
is a city, administrative headquarters and a   municipal
board   or Nagar
Palika Parishad   in   Kannauj
district   in
the   Indian   state   of   Uttar
Pradesh . The
city's name is traditionally derived from the term   Kanyakubja [1 ]   (maiden's
womb).   Kannauj   is
an ancient city, in earlier times the capital of Emperor   Harshavardhan .
It is said that Kanyakubja   Brahmin 's
are originally from Kannauj. Kannauj is known for the distilling of scents
and is a market center for tobacco, perfume, and rose water. It has given
its name to a distinct dialect of the   Hindi   language
known as   Kanauji ."
The first reference says that:   "Several
controversies exist regarding the origin of these early Rashtrakutas, their
native home and their language."
e)    The name   RASHTRAKUTA ,
rearranged as   "TURKSHATAR-A" ,
is the altered and reformatted form of the Turkish expression   "TÜRKŞÜTÜR
O" ( TÜRKÇÜTÜR
O)     meaning   "He
is from Turkish people", "They are Turkish people" .  Additionally, it
is the Turkish expression   "TÜRKŞETÜR
O" ( TÜRKÇETÜR
O)       meaning   "their
language is Turkish"   which
again verifies that they were Turkish peoples ruling large parts of
southern, central and northern India.   These
Turkish definitions again identify the   RASHTRAKUTA   empire
as an empire of Turkish peoples in India starting from the sixth century
onwards to the tenth centuries. This make a large segment of the present
Indian population as descendants of the ancient Turkish peoples.
This decipherment of the name   RASHTRAKUTA
indicates that they were Turanian Turkish peoples and also their language
was Turkish.  This then removes any doubt that may exist in the minds of
scholars about them and their language.
Even the name   KSHATRIYA   is
embedded in the name   RASHTRAKUTA   indicating
that the people of the    RASHTRAKUTA Empire
were also the so-called   "KSHATRIYA"   Turks.
This we can see when the name    RASHTRAKUTA   is
rearranged as "KSHATRAATUR   " ,   we
find that it is the altered form of Turkish word   "KSHATRIYA'TUR'"   meaning   "it
is 'Ksahatriya" .  In this case the name   KSHATRIYA   is
a proper name although it is not a Turkish name.
f)    The city name   KANNAUJ ,
rearranged as   "KANUNJA" ,
is from Turkish word   "KANUNCU"
meaning   "law
maker" .  As the reference indicates this ancient city of India was an   "administrative   headquarters
and a place of municipal board"   which
makes the city a   "law
making city" , that is,    KANUNCU .
Turkish word   KANUN   means   "law"   ,
hence, the name of this city is coined after the Turkish word   KANUN .
Thus, the source of the city name so-called " KANNAUJ "
is from Turkish - contrary to the bogus claim that the city's name is
derived from   the
term   Kanyakubja   (maiden's
womb) .
g)    The city name   KANNAUJ ,
rearranged as   "KUNAJ-AN" ,
is from Turkish word   "KUNAS-hANa"
(GÜNES EVI)   meaning "the
house of Sun" .    Thus,
again the source of the city name is from Turkish and has been named after
the Sun-God rather than from   the
term   Kanyakubja   (maiden's
womb) .
It was normal for these Turanian people, being Kshatriyas (also known as
Suryavanshas), who worshipped the Sun God, to name  their capital cities
after the Sun or the Sun God.  And this is what my above decipherments are
showing.
***
T he
Emperor   HARSHAVARDHAN:
The name of the Emperor   HARSHAVARDHAN   is
also very enlightening as we shall see below:
a)      The  name   HARSHAVARDHAN ,
rearranged as   "ARSH-DANRH-AHA-V" ,
is from the Turkish expression   "ARŞ
TANRI AGA O"   meaning   "He
is the Lord Sky-God", "He is the Sky-God believing Lord" .  With this
title in Turkish, he declares himself as the Sky-God, and also   "a
Sky-God believing lord" . Such kingly titles were totally of the
ancient Turanian civilization!
b)      The  name   HARSHAVARDHAN ,
rearranged as   "HSHAR-DANRA-AVH" ,
is from the Turkish   expression   "IŞIR
TANRI EVI"   meaning   "The   House
of the Shining God", "The House of the Sun-God" .  With this kingly
title, he identifies his house as the House of the Sun-God!  All Kshatria   Dynasties   were
Suryavansha Dynasties and therefore their houses were the Shining Sun
Dynasties.
c)      The   name   HARSHAVARDHAN ,
rearranged as   "AVSHAR-AR-HAN-DH" ,
is from the Turkish   expression   "AVŞAR
ER HAN'DI"   meaning   "He
is the warrior Lord of Avshar (Turks)" .  With this kingly title, He
states the   AVŞAR   name
of his Turkish clan name (i.e.,   "Türk
Boyu"   in Turkish)!
d)      The   name   HARSHAVARDHAN ,
rearranged as   "AVSHAR-ARHAN-DH" ,
is from the Turkish   expression   "AVŞAR
ERHAN'DI"   meaning   "He
is Avshar ERHAN" .  With this definition, he states his name in
Turkish being ERHAN which is a widely used name for man.
e)     The   name   HARSHAVARDHAN ,
rearranged as   "A-DARVHSH-ARHAN" ,
is from the Turkish   expression   "O
DERVIŞ ERHAN"   meaning   "he
is the modest Erhan with the heart of an emperor" .  With this
definition, he states his nickname as "Dervish Erhan"  although he was an
Emperor Erhan!    I would like to
point out that the name "Darius" the Great, of the Mede Empire, also comes
from this Turkish-Iranian name "Dervish".
f)    The city   Kannauj   is
said to be an ancient city and in earlier times, it was the capital of
Emperor   HARSHAVARDHAN .   In
this context, the  name   HARSHAVARDHAN ,
rearranged as   "HSHA-VARD-AR-HAN" ,
is from Turkish word   "IŞI
VERDI ER HAN"   meaning   "The   Lord
Man   who gave light", "The Lord
Man who enlightened" .  In this decipherment, with these meanings in
Turkish, the so called King   HARSHAVARDHAN   is
seen to have a kingly title in Turkish.  In the first one, he declares
himself as the "Sun" as all kings did, and in the second, he claims himself
as a learned person and with that he enlightened his people.
***
These definitions clearly identify the so-called   RASHTRAKUTA   group
as   Turkish speaking   Turks,
and also as One Sky-God and Sun-God  worshipping people - as all Turanians
were.  Evidently, the royal dynasty of the Turks ruled all over the Indian
subcontinent (Hindustan) for a very long time.  It is no wonder that some
writers such as   Col.
James Churchword   identified
Ancient India with the Turkish Uygur peoples, although he associates the
Uyghur Turks with a   "Lost
Continent Mu" .  Actually it was not a lost   continent   or
a continent   submerged into the
ocean   that obliterated the
civilization of the ancient Turanian Tur/Turk/Oguz peoples, but rather, it
was   some "religious clergy
groups" whose main traditions were: sorcery; deception; lying; sophistry;
stealing anything and everything including the Turanian language, religion,
God and godly concepts; mischiefmaking; malice; intrigue; duplicity;
instigation; causing disorder; rebellion; inciting people to kill each
other; money and land hoarding; usury; exploitation; and, the control of
people.  Thus being "godly" was not the real purpose of these "religious
clergy groups".  Rather, they used a "godly" appearance as a curtain while
doing all kinds of evil   secretly   behind
that curtain. By deceptively stealing the Turanian language to manufacture
all kinds of languages, and similarly concocting artificial religions to
replace the Turanian religion, and by altering the names of these ancient
Turanians, they obliterated that very ancient civilization of   Turanian   Uyghur
and other Tur/Turk/Oguz peoples!  And this obliteration of the ancient
Turanian civilization is what is being referred to as the "lost ancient
civilization of a submerged continent".  This is a metaphorical coverup.
After all, it is really hard to believe that a continent was submerged under
water and became "lost" - without leaving any trace of itself or its
civilization.
For Uyghur  Turks' civilization see the following internet links:
1.      http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9ihoz9WcbPw
2      http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=U0VwTnlkHWo&feature=related
3.      http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9ihoz9WcbPw&feature=related
4.      http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-BbAQQs5JKo&feature=related
5.     http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=t_dlMV3Absw&feature=related
***
Wikipedia also gives the following:
"According
to a legend given in later manuscripts of   Prithviraj
Raso , the
Pratiharas were one of the   Agnikula   clans
of Rajputs, deriving their origin from a sacrificial fire-pit (agnikunda) at
Mount Abu. [10 ]   However,
this mythical story of   Agnikula   is
not mentioned at all in the original version of the   Prithviraj
Raso   preserved
in the Fort Library at   Bikaner . [11 ]   Several
scholars including D B Bhandarkar,   Baij
Nath Puri   and   A.
F. Rudolf Hoernle   believe
that the Pratiharas were a branch of   Gurjars . [12 ] [13 ] [14 ] [15 ] [16 ] [17 ]   The
Pratihara dynasty is referred to as   Gurjara
pratiharanvayah, i.e.,   Pratihara
clan of the   Gurjaras ,   in
line 4 of the "Rajor inscription ( Alwar )". [18 ] [19 ]   The
historian Rama Shankar Tripathi states that the Rajor inscription confirms
the Gurjara   origin
of the Pratiharas. In line 12 of this inscription, occur words which have
been translated as   "together
with all the neighbouring fields cultivated by the   Gurjaras ".
Here, the cultivators themselves are clearly called   Gurjaras   and
therefore it's reasonable to presume that, in line four too, the term bears
a racial signification. [20 ]
h)    Additionally,   The
Pratihara dynasty   is
referred to as   Gurjara
pratiharanvayah ,
i.e., Pratihara clan of the   GURJARAS .
The name   PRATIHARANVAYAH ,
rearranged as   "PIR-HAVA-TANRA-AYH" ,
is the altered and reformatted form of the Turkish expression   "BIR
HAVA TANRI ÖYÜ"  (BIR GÖK TANRI EVI)   meaning   "House
of One-Sky-God"   and/or   "One
House of Sky-God" .    This
Turkish expression identifies the so-called   Parihar   or   Pratihar   people   with
the Turkish   GÖK
TANRI , that is, the Sky-God of ancient Turanians.  Their name is
Indianized as   Gurjaras   people
from Central Asia, that is, the   UYGUR Turks.
This revelation also identifies the state of   GURJARAT   in
India with the   Uygur   name
although name has been intentionally Aryanized.  This we see as follows:
The name   GURJARAT ,
as a country, rearranged as   " UJGAR-AR T" ,
is the altered and reformatted form of the Turkish expression "UYGUR
YERIDI"   meaning   "it
is   the place of Uigur", "it is   the
land of Uigur" .  This again identifies the Uigur Turks with the state
of   GURJARAT .
Similarly,   the
name   GURJARAT ,
as name of people, rearranged as   " UJGAR-AR T" ,
is the altered and reformatted form of the Turkish expression   "UYGUR
ERIDI"   meaning   "it
is   the Uigur people" .
Thus the composite term   Gurjara
pratiharanvayah   becomes   " BIR-HAVA-TANRI   UYGUR
ERI   ÖYÜ"   ( BIR-GÖK-TANRI UYGUR
ERI   ÖYÜ )   meaning   "the
House of One-Sky-God believing Uigur Man" .
Turkish word    BIR   means   "one" ,   HAVA   means   "air;
sky" ,   TANRI   means   "God" ,   ER   means   "man;
soldier; hero; husband; protector" ,   ÖY
(EV)   means   "house,
dynasty; land; country" ,   BIR   means   "one" ,   BIR   means   "one" ,   BIR   means   "one" ,   BIR means   "one" ,
Thus, all the Turanian Kshatriya peoples (i.e., Tur/Turk/Oguz
peoples) in ancient Hindustan were Indo-Aryanized, and their Turkishness
were made to be forgotten or were intentionally obliterated!  This was an
intentional usurpation as well as obliteration long term projects of Aryans
and the Semites against the Turanians all over the world.  Unsuspecting
Turanians always gave protection to these wanderer peoples who first
infiltrated into the Turanian Tur/Turk/Oguz communities where they were well
received and protected.  But these "Black" and "Wind" believing peoples
always struck the Turanians from within together with their collaborators
outside the targetted community.
This very same tactic was also used in ancient Turanian country presently
called "Iran" where the money and land hoarders of Iran, that is, the   the
Aryans and the Semites,   collaborated
together in a revolt planned and perpetrated against the Turkish MEDE Empire
of Iran.  In the uprising, the Mede empire was toppled and an Aryan and
Semite, so-called, "ACHEMENIDE" Dynasty wasestablished   in
the mid first millennium B.C.  This way they were able to usurp the giant
Turkish MEDE empire in one deceitful usurpation act.   This Aryan and Semite
tactic was used against the native Turanians of Europe and Anatolia during
the Roman and Byzantium Empires and by the Semite Assurians in the Middle
East and so-called Egypt.
***
We have the following
additional information about the "Gurjar" (Uyghur) peoples from Wikipedia
link at
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gujarat#Ancient_history
"See also:   Gurjar
Modern-day   Gujarat   is
derived from   Gurjaratra   that
is the land protected or ruled by the   Gurjars ,
or from   Gurjar-Rashtra ,
the Gujjar   nation. [7 ] [8 ] [9 ]   The
origins of the   Gujjars   are
uncertain. The   Gujjar   clan
appeared in northern India about the time of the   Huna   invasions
of   northern
India .   The
name of the tribe was   Sanskritized   to
" Gurjara " . [10 ]   The
Gurjars/Gujjars believe to have descended from   Suryavanshi   Kshatriyas   (Sun
Dynasty). [11 ]   Historically,
the   Gurjars   were
Sun-worshipers and their copper-plate grants and seals also bear an emblem
of the Sun. [12 ] "
Here again we have to decipher some names that are all related to the name
of   GURJAR ,
that is, the   UIGUR   Turks:
a)    The
name    GURJARAS ,
rearranged as   "UJGAR-ARS" ,
is from the Turkish expression   "UYGUR
ERiZ"   meaning   "We
are Uigur Men" .
b)    The
name    GURJARATRA ,
as land protected or ruled by Gurjars - the Uigur Turks, rearranged as    "UJGAR-AR-ART" ,
is from the Turkish expression   "UIGUR
ER YERITI"   meaning   "it
is place of Uigur man" .
c)
Additionally, the name    GURJARATRA ,
as a place name, rearranged as   "TURG-AR-JARA" ,
is from the Turkish expression "TÜRK
ER YERI"   meaning   "place
of Turk man" . Thus, item b) and c) identify the names   Uigur   and   Turk   with
each other despite the camouflage.
d)    The
modern name    GUJARAT ,
(derived from the name   GURJARATRA   described
above), rearranged as   "TURG-AJA" ,
is from the Turkish expression   "TURK
ÖYÜ"   meaning   "house
of Turk" .  Thus, the people of the modern Gujarat are the Indo-Aryanized
descendants of Uigur Turks. and hence of the Turks!
d)    The name    GURJAR-RASHTRA ,
meaning the   Gujjar   nation,
the origins of whom are said to be uncertain,   rearranged
as "GUJ-SHA-ARRARTAR" , is from the
Turkish expression   "GÖYIŞI
ERLERDIR" (GÜNEŞ ERLERDIR)   meaning   "they
are Sky-Light men", "they are Sunlight men", "they are sun-god believing
men" .
Furthermore, the decipherment being in the form of   "GUJSHA-ARRARTAR" ,
is from the Turkish expression   "GÖYÇÜ
ERLERDIR"   meaning   "they
are sky believing men" .    Evidently,
these long Turkish expressions have been shortened to the form of   GUJJAR .
This we see when the name   GUJJAR   is
rearranged as   "GUJJA-R" ,
and read as a Turkish expression.  It is found to be an altered form of the
Turkish expression   "GÖYJÜ
eR" (GÖYCÜ eR,   GÖKCÜ eR)   meaning   "sky
believing man" .     Thus the
meanings of   these two
decipherments in Turkish   corroborate
each other and show that both words are from Turkish!
***
4.    The fourth group of late coming Kshatriyas from Central Asia is named
as   SOLANKIS:
The   SOLANKIS   were
one of the   Agnikula   groups
called   the
Parmars, Chauhans, Parihars and Solankis . I
explained the first three groups in detail above. Now lest us identify the
name Solankis.
a)      The name    SOLANKI ,
rearranged as   "AL-KONIS" ,
is from the Turkish expression   "AL
GÜNEŞ"   meaning   "Red
Sun" . So, their name refers to the name of the Sun in Turkish
indicating that they are sun believers.
b)      The
name    SOLANKI ,
rearranged as   "ALKONIS" ,
is from the Turkish expression   "ALGÜNIZ"   meaning   "we
are Algun" . So, their Turkish name was   ALGÜN   meaning   "red
sun" .
c)    The
name    SOLANKI ,
rearranged as   "KONAS-IL" ,
is from the Turkish expression   "GÜNEŞ
ILI"   meaning   "Sun
Country" . Thus, this definition identifies their original country in
Central Asia and their new country in India (which was also known as
Suryavansha - that is, the Sun Empire) as the   "Sun
country" .  They were originally from Central Asia, that is, to say " TURKISTAN ".   This
explains why the so-called "Solankis", that is, "ALGUNs", called their
country   "GUNES
ILI" , that is,   "Sun
Country" .
d)      The
name    SOLANKI ,
rearranged as   "ASIL-KON" ,
is from the Turkish expression   "ASIL
GÜN"   meaning   "Noble
Sun" . This makes the   Solanki   people   "the
noble Sun people" .
e)      The name    SOLANKI ,
rearranged as   "KONASLI" ,
is from the Turkish expression   "GÜNEŞLI"   meaning   "Sunny" .
This again identifies the so-called   SOLANKI   people
with the Sun in Turkish!
***
Additionally, we have the
following additional information about the "Solanki" people from Wikipedia
link at
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Solanki#Solanki_rulers_of_Gujarat
The Solanki (Gujari:ंकी
(Devanagari)) are a Hindu Agnivanshi Rajput clan of Gurjar[1] stock who
ruled parts of western and central India between the 10th and 13th
centuries. Solankis are descended from 6th Century Badami Chalukyas[2]. The
name Solanki comes from Chalukya the ancient Indian dynasty. During 543–566,
Pulakesi I, established the kingdom at Vatapi (present-day Badami, Bagalkot
District in North Karnataka of Karnataka).[3]   The
Solanki clan-name is found within the Rajput and Gurjar [4]   community
of Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh . Yaduvanshi Ahirs also have a   Gotra   named   Solangi ,
which they believe is other form of Solanki.[5]
In Gujarat,   Anhilwara   (modern
Siddhpur Patan) served as their capital. Gujarat was a major center of
Indian Ocean trade, and Anhilwara   was
one of the largest cities in India, with population estimated at 100,000 in
the year 1000. The Solankis were patrons of the great seaside temple of
Shiva at Somnath Patan in Kathiawar; Bhima Dev helped rebuild the temple
after it was sacked by   Mahmud
of Ghazni   in 1026. His
son,   Karandev ,
conquered the Bhil king Ashapall or Ashaval, and after his victory
established a city named   Karnavati   on
the banks of the   Sabarmati   River,
at the site of modern   Ahmedabad .
Baghel
Descendants of the   Anhilwara
Solankis   ruled the state of   Rewa ,
in the   Bagelkhand   region,
the eastern part of present-day Madhya Pradesh.   Vyaghra
Deo , brother of the King of Gujarat, moved to   Bagelkhand   in
the middle of the twelfth century, and obtained the fortress of Marpha, 18
miles northeast of   Kalinjar .
His son Karandeo married a   Kalchuri   (Haihaya)
princess of Mandla, and received the fortress of   Bandogarh   as
her dowry. Bandogarh served as the seat of the Solankis of Bagelkhand until
its destruction by the   Mughal
emperor Akbar   in 1597.
After the destruction of Bandogargh, the Solankis moved their capital to
Rewa. From 1812 to 1947 the Solanki, Maharajas of Rewa ruled the princely
state of that name, within British India. In 1947, the last Maharaja of Rewa
acceded to newly-independent India.
The city name of the   BAGELKHAND   region,
rearranged as   "EL-BAGH-KAND" ,
is from the Turkish expression   "ELBEYI
KENT" (ILBEYI KENT)   meaning   "City
of the Lord of Country", "City of the King" .
Turkish word   ELBEYI   means   "lord
of country" , that is,   "the
King of country" .    ELBEYI   is
also a name for man in Turkish.
The name   VYAGHRA
DEO ,   the   brother
of the King of Gujarat,   rearranged
as   "VYGOR-AHA-DE" ,
is the restructured form of the Turkish expression   "UYGUR
AGA'DI"   meaning   "He
is Uyghur Lord" .  This again verifies that Gujarat people were Uyghur
Turks. So, this Uyghur King   UYGUR
AGA , identified by the Indo-Aryanized name of   VYAGHRA
DEO , moved to BAGELKHAND   (i.e.,   "ELBEYI
KENT" (ILBEYI KENT)   in
Turkish)   in the middle of the
twelfth century, and obtained the fortress of   MARPHA .
The name   KARANDEO ,
son of   Uyghur
Aga ,   rearranged as   "KOR-ANDE-O" ,
is from the Turkish expression   "KOR
AN'DI O" meaning   "He
is the Fire of the sky" , that is,   "The
Sun of Sky" .  This title deifies him as the Sun-God.
Additionally, the name   KARANDEO ,   rearranged
as   "ADE-KORAN" ,
is from the Turkish expression   "ADI
KORAN"   meaning "His
name is Koran (Korhan)" . This identifies  first given name of this
king as   KORHAN
which is a name for men in Turkish.   The name means   "Fire
Lord"   in Turkish. We must
note here that even the name "UYGOR" read as "UY-GOR" means   "House
of Fire"   which is again in
accordance with the Sun-God believing!
The Mughal emperor Akbar   was
also a Turkish ruler in India.  Even the name   MAHARAJA ,
rearranged as   "MAH-AR-AJA" ,
is from Turkish expression   "MA
ER EÇE"   meaning   "Great
Man of Moon" . Thus, even this Indian name is from Turkish.  Turkish
word   "MA
(MAH, AY)   is another word
for   "moon" .
Turkish word   ER   means   "man.
soldier, hero; husband" ,    EÇE   means "great"   used
to describe both   "man"   or   "woman"   who
is the head of the family.
***
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ahmedabad
"Historical
evidence suggests that the area around Ahmedabad has been inhabited since
the 11th century, when it was known as Ashapalli or   Ashaval . [9 ]   At
that time,   Karandev
I , the   Solanki   ruler
of   Anhilwara   (modern   Patan ),
waged a successful war against the   Bhil   king
of Ashaval, [10 ]   and
established a city called   Karnavati   located
at the present time area of Maninagar close to the river Sabarmati. Solanki
rule lasted until the 13th century, when Gujarat came under the control of
the   Vaghela
dynasty   of Dholka   and
Karnavati was conquered by the   Sultanate
of Delhi . In 1411, the rule of the   Muzaffarid
dynasty   was established in
Gujarat. According to legend, Sultan   Ahmed
Shah , while camping on the banks of the River Sabarmati, saw a hare
chasing a dog. Impressed by this act of bravery, the Sultan, who had been
looking for a place to build his new capital, decided to locate the capital
at this forest area close by to Karnavati right on the river bank and
christened it Ahmedabad. [11 ]   The
incident is popularly described in a one liner saying   "Jab
kutte pe sassa aaya, tab Badshah ne shaher basaya" . Translation:   Seeing
the hare chasing the dog, the Emperor built the City ."
Linguistically, it is interesting to compare the last part of this sentence   "tab
Badshah ne shaher basaya"   with
the corresponding Turkish sentence   "PADIŞAH
YAPTI   ŞAH-yERINI
(ŞEHERINI)   BAŞ   ÖYÜ
( BAŞ
KENT) " .
The corresponding words are as follows:
TAB   vs. Turkish   YAPTI   meaning   "made,
built" ;
BADSHAH    vs.
Turkish   PADIŞAH   (which
is from ancient Turkish   "APA
IŞIH / IŞIK" , that is   "Father
Sun" );
SHAHER    vs.
Turkish   "ŞAH
YER"   meaning   "place
of the King" , more correctly,   "place
of the Sun man" ;
NE SHAHER   vs.
Turkish   ŞAH-yERINI
( ŞEHERINI)     meaning   "his
city" ;
PASAYA   vs.  Turkish   BAŞ   ÖYÜ
( BAŞ
KENT)   meaning   "the
head House" , that is, the   "capital
city" .
As can be seen from this comparison, the so-called "Hindo" language spoken
in Gujarat is very much a restructured form of Turkish.
The modern name   AHMEDABAD ,
the capital city of Gujarat, is actually a name made up from the Turkish
expression   "AHMED
EVDI" (AHMED EVIDI)   meaning   "it
is the house of Ahmed" .  The name   Ahmed   is
a widely used Turkish name for men.  Thus, the suffix   "-ABAD"   is
an altered, restructured and Aryanized (Persianized) form of the Turkish
word   "EVDI"   meaning   "it
is the house" .
This we see also in the city name   KARNAVATI .
Here, the suffix   "VATI"   is
again a restructured form of the Turkish word "EVDI" .
Another form of this Turkish word is the Jewish word   "BETH"   which
is a distortion of the Turkish word   "EVDI"
(EVTI)   meaning "it
is house" .  For example the so-called Jewish term   "BETH
ELOHIM"   means   "House
of Jewish god" .  But that Jewish God "ELOHIM"   is
actually made up from the Turkish expression   "YEL
AHaM" (YEL AGAM)   meaning   "my
WIND Lord" .  This clearly explains what "God" concept the Jewish
people are believing in, although they have not disclosed it at all!  Of
course the term "ELOHIM"   is
another substitution for the ancient Sumerian Storm God   ENLIL   which
is the Turkish   "HAN
YEL"   meaning "Lord
wind"!    The modern name of
this   "BETH
ELOHIM"   is the city named   BETHLEHEM   -
which again means   "the
house of the wind Lord" .
***
"Leading Rajput clans   claimed
descent from the sun and the moon   and
accordingly labeled themselves as   Suryavanshi
and Chandravanshi.   One
theory holds that in the 6th century AD, after the death of   arshavardhana ,
the powerful ruler of Thaneshvara ,
there was a power vacuum in north India.   To
maintain the social order, the Brahmins legitimized clans of invading
adventurers from Central Asia as Agnikula, Suryavanshi and Chandravanshi
Kshatriyas."
The
city name    ANHILWARA:
The   name
of the capital city of Gujarat   ANHILWARA   (where
letter W can take the values of UU, VV,  YY, UV, UY or VY), rearranged as   "AYHAN-AR-ILU" ,
is from the Turkish expression   "AYHAN
ER ILU" (AYHAN ER ILI)   meaning   "the
country of   Moon-Lord man" ,
that is,   "the
house   of   Moon-Lord
man" .
The name   SOLANKI   was
shown to be related to the Sun in Turkish above, thus, in one meaning,
this makes the term ANHILWARA     SOLANKI   to
mean  "the sunny house   of   Moon-Lord
man " .
Hence, this Turkish title identifies this King as being a Sun-God and
Moon-God worshipping man.  This also verifies their claim that   they   were   "descent
from the sun and the moon" , that is to say, they were Turanian Sun
and Moon worshipping Tur/Turk/Oguz peoples.
The name   AYHAN   is
a man's name in Turkish and means   "Moon-lord" .
The Gujarat people being the Kshatria (the Turk) people were known as the
rulers and warriors of India with such adjectives, that is,   Suryavanshi
and Chandravanshi Kshatriyas .
Thus all of these four   Agnikula
(GÜN KULU)   people were
Turkish peoples, whom the Brahmans asked to govern and protect again the
people of India.  All of these explain and verify the fact that the
Kshatriyas were Central Asiatic Tur/Turk/Oguz peoples.  as we will see
further below.
***
The Wikipedia reference states:
"There are also leading Rajputs clans that   claim
descent from the sun and the moon   and
accordingly labeled themselves as Suryavanshi
and Chandravanshi.   One
theory holds that in the 6th century AD, after the death of   arshavardhana ,
the powerful ruler of   Thaneshvara ,
there was a power vacuum in north India.   To
maintain the social order, the Brahmins legitimized clans of invading
adventurers from Central Asia as Agnikula, Suryavanshi and Chandravanshi
Kshatriyas."
***
The King name   ARSHAVARDHANA:
The meaning of the above reference is that before the arrival of the
so-called   "invading
adventurers from Central Asia" , there was a city called   Thaneshvara   and
its king was   Arshavardhana .
To understand the true identity of these two names, let us read on.
a)    The name   ARSHAVARDHANA ,
rearranged as   "ARSH-DANRH-AVA-A" ,
is the altered, restructured and disguised form of the Turkish expression   "ARŞ
TANRI AVI O" (GÖK TANRI EVI O)   meaning   "It
is the house of Sky-Lord" .  This Turkish expression clearly
identifies this "Ksahtriya" king as being a believer of the Turanian Sky-God
- and his house and/or dynasty a "House
of Gök Tanri" .  Hence, they were the   SKY
TURKS   (i.e., the   "GÖK
TURKS " in Turkish).
Turkish word   ARŞ   means   "sky" ,    TANRI   means   "God" ,    GÖK   means   "sky;
blue" ,    EV   means   "house;
home, country; dynasty" .
b)    The name   ARSHAVARDHANA ,
rearranged as   "ISHAR-DANRA-AVA" ,
is the altered, restructured and disguised form of the Turkish expression   "IŞIR
TANRI EVI"    meaning   "House
of Shining God" , that is,   "the
House of  Sun" .  This Turkish expression again identifies the House
of king   ARSHAVARDHANA   as
a king of   "Ksahtriya", his house
is being called a   "House
of Sun ".
Turkish word   IŞIR   means   "shines" ,    IŞIR   TANRI   means   "Shining
God" , that is,   "the
Sun-God" .
c)    Additionally,   the name   ARSHAVARDHANA ,
rearranged as   "AVSHAR-AR-HAN'DA" ,
is the altered, restructured and disguised form of the Turkish expression   "AVŞAR
ER HAN'DI"   meaning   "He
is Avshar Lord man" . Furthermore, it means   "He
is Avshar Warrior Lord" .    With
this kingly title, He states the   AVŞAR   name
of his Turkish clan name (i.e.,   "Türk
Boyu"   in Turkish)!
d)   Similarly,   the name   ARSHAVARDHANA ,
rearranged as   "AVSHAR-ARHAN'DA" ,
is the altered, restructured and disguised form of the Turkish expression  "AVŞAR
ERHAN'DI"   meaning   "He
is Avshar ERHAN" . With this definition he is stating his name as   ERHAN   which
is a widely used Turkish name for men.   Thus the king's name was   "ARHAN"
(ERHAN) !
Turkish word   AVŞAR   is
the name of   "AVŞAR"   Turks,
who ruled in Iran and evidently in ancient India as well!
.
It is interesting to note that after the death of   ARSHAVARDHANA ,
that is, the King   "AVŞAR
ARHAN" , it is said that   "there
was a power vacuum in north India. To maintain the social order, the
Brahmins legitimized clans of invading adventurers from Central Asia as
Agnikula, Suryavanshi and Chandravanshi Kshatriyas."   The   AVŞAR   Turks
were  one of the most celebrated branch of Turanian Tur/Turk/Oguz peoples.
Presently, their deccendants are in Iran, Azerbaijan, Turkiye and most
likely in India as well!
***
The city name THANESHVARA:
The name   THANESHVARA ,
rearranged as   "HSHA-TANRE-AV" ,
is the restructured form of the Turkish expression   " IŞI TANRI
EVI"   meaning   "house
of the light-God" , that is,   "the
House (country) of the Sun-God" .  This, of course, refers to the
house of Turanians that established, in the ancient sub-continent of India,
the   Sun
Empire SURYAVANSHA , that is,   the
Shining Golden House   of
Turanians.  That is why India has the official name of " HINDUSTAN ",
that is, " HUNISTAN " and/or " GÜNISTAN ".
Turkish word   IŞI   means   "light" ,   TANRI   means   "God" ,    IŞI   TANRI   means   "light
God" , that is,   The
SUN ,    EV   means   "house" .
***
The name   AGNIKULA:
In order to fill the position of the dead king   ARSHAVARDHANA ,   the
Brahmans approved and installed the incoming Central Asian Turks (whom they
called " AGNIKULA ") to take over the
rulership of the country and to protect it.  But the name AGNIKULA ,
rearranged as   "GUN-KILI-A"   or   "GIN-KULI-A ,
is the altered, restructured and disguised form of the Turkish expression  "GÜN
KULU O"   meaning   "he
is the loyal servant of the Sun"   that
is,   "he
is the worshipper of the Sun" . That is what the Central Asian Turks
were.  They were the   "Children
of the Sun"   and their
language of Turkish was   "The
SUN LANGUAGE"   contrary to
denials by those who do not have any rationale to deny it.
The Indian name   AGNI   meaning   "fire   comes
from Turkish word   "GÜN"   meaning   "Sun" .
Sun is the most magnificent " fire " of
them all!
Turkish word   KUL   means   "loyal
servant", "the subjects of the Turanian Hakans and Sultans" .
***
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Characters_of_Hindu_mythology
Raghava Rama
Among
all the Ramas of Sanskrit literature, Raghava Rama was the most
famous. The epic   Ramayana   is
all about this Rama.   The
word Ramayana means Rama's travels   in   Sanskrit .
He was a Kshatriya king, in the   Ikshwaku   clan,
in the lineage of a famous king   Raghu ,
and hence called by the name   Raghava
Rama .
The term   RAMAYANA   (meaning
"travels of Rama"), rearranged as   "ARAYANAM" ,
is the altered, restructured and Sanskritizedform   of
the Turkish expression   "ARAYANAM"   meaning   "I
am a wanderer", "I am a traveller" .  Thus the source of the term
was taken from Turkish. In view of this insight revelation, it is
natural that RAMAYANA would mean "The Travels of Rama". But its original
language was Turkish before it was anagrammatized.
The term   RAMAYANA   (meaning
"travels of Rama"), rearranged as   "MAN-AY-ARA" ,
is the altered, restructured and Sanskritizedform   of
the Turkish expression   "MAN
AY ERI"   meaning   "I
am moon man", "I am moon believer" .  RAMA is the personification
of the "Moon-God". Thus, again the source of the term is from Turkish
rather than "Sanskrit"!
RAMA   was
a Kshatriya king, in the   IKSHWAKU   clan.
He was from the lineage of a famous king   RAGHU ,
and hence he was called   RAGHAVA
RAMA .
The term   IKSHWAKU,   rearranged
as   "KUY-ISHUKA"   or   "KUK-ISHUYA"   is
the altered, restructured and Sanskritized   form   of
the Turkish expression   "GÖY
IŞUKU" (GÖK IŞIGI)   meaning   "the
sky light", that is, "the sun",   "the
sunlight",   "the
moon , or "the
Moonlight" .
The term   IKSHWAKU,   rearranged
as   "KUY-AH-KUSI" ,
is the altered, restructured and Sanskritized   form   of
the Turkish expression   "GÖY
AGA   GÖZI"  (GÖK AGA   GÖZI   )   meaning   "the
Eye of the Sky-Lord"   -
which were the sun and moon.
The term   RAGHU,   rearranged
as   "UHGAR" ,
is the altered, restructured and Sanskritized   form   of
the Turkish expression "UYGUR"   meaning   "the
Uighur (Turks)" .
***
Bhargava Rama:
Contrary to the identity of   Raghava
Rama , the   Bhargava
Rama   was a   Brahmin   warrior
who was also called   Parashurama .
Thus, the identity of this   Bhargava
Rama   is much more
different from the identity of   Raghava
Rama .  This we will see below.
The term   BHARGAVA   RAMA,   rearranged
as       "BR-GARA-MA-AHA-V" ,
is the altered, restructured and Sanskritized form of the Turkish
expression   "BiR
GARA MA AHa" (BIR KARA AY AGA)   meaning   "One
Black-Moon Lord" .  So, this group of Rama was  a   "black-moon
believing people" , that is,   "evil
(black)-moon-god believing house"   under
the pretext of   "godly"
Brahmin warrior.  They were secret planners and operators of all kinds
of evil acts!
The term   BHARGAVA   RAMA,   rearranged
as   "BARA-VGRAMA-HA"   ( BARA-VGRAMA-IA ),
is the altered, restructured and Sanskritized form of the Turkish
expression   "PARA
UGRAMA ÖYÜ" (PARA OGRUMA ÖYÜ, PARA HIRSIZLAMA EVI) meaning   "money
stealing house"   which
most likely were the pre-runners of the present day "banks".  So this
group of Rama were "money
stealing thieves"   under
the pretext of being   "godly"   Brahmin
warriors.  We will know more about them when we analyse the name   PARASHURAMA   below:
***
The term   PARASHURAMA:
a)    The term   PARASHURAMA,   rearranged
as   "PARA-ASHURMA" ,
is the altered, restructured and Sanskritized form of the Turkish
expression   "PARA
AŞURMA"   meaning   "stealing
money" .
b)    The term   PARASHURAMA,   rearranged
as   "PARASHU-ARAM" ,
is the altered, restructured and Sanskritized   form   of
the Turkish expression   "PARACU
ARAM" (or   PARACU EREM)   meaning   "money
dealer Arami"   or    "I
am money man" .
c)    The term   PARASHURAMA,   rearranged
as   "HARAM-PARASU" ,
is the altered, restructured and Sanskritized form of the Turkish
expression   "HARAM
PARACU"   meaning   "unlawful
money operator",   "person who
unlawfully acquires  money" .
d)    The term   PARASHURAMA,   rearranged
as   "PHARS-ARAMAU" ,
is the altered, restructured and Sanskritized form of the Turkish
expression   "FARS
ARAMI" (PERS ARAMI'SI)   meaning   "Pers
Aramean, Persian Aramaic"   people.
[see entry "ARAMI" in the Redhouse Turkish-English Dictionary, 1987, p.
68].
e)    The term   PARASHURAMA,   rearranged
as   "PHR-ARAMASU-A" ,
is the altered, restructured and Sanskritized form of the Turkish
expression   "BIR
ARAMACU   O" (BIR GEZGINCI O,
BIR ÇINGENE O)   meaning   "one
wanderer he is", "one Aramaic he is" .
It is no wonder that they,   with
other collaborators,   instigated
the internal rebellion in Iran at year 559 B.C. to take over the ruling
power of the   Turanian
MEDE Empire   in Iran.
After the commotion (rebellion), the so-called   "ACHAEMENIDE"   dynasty
was created in the Turanian country of Tur/Turk/Oguz peoples in ancient
Iran.  When they came to power in Iran, they installed the "Aramaic"
language as the official first language of Iran so-called   "PERSIA"   -
thereby replacing the Turkish that was spoken before.  At the same time
they manufactured a new so-called "Aryan" language of "Persian".  Since
then, the same and similar thievery have been carried on in all fields
without the people knowing about this secret plan of the "Black-moon
Rama" peoples!
***
The name BAHLIKA:
2.     http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bahlikas
"According to the   Puranic   traditions,
Dhrshta was one of the nine sons of   Manu .
From him came a number of   clans   called
Dharshtakas who were reckoned as   Kshatriyas .
According to   Shiva
Purana   the Dharshtaka princes
became rulers of Bahlika. "
Kavyamimamsa of Rajshekhar (10th c AD) lists the   Bahlikas   with
the Sakas, Tusharas, Vokanas, Hunas, Kambojas, Pahlavas, Tangana, Turukshas,
etc. and states them as the tribes located in the   Uttarapatha   division.
Besides Kambojas, Atharvaveda-Parisista also associates the Vedic Bahlikas
with the   Sakas ,   Yavanas   and   Tusharas   (Saka-Yavana-Tukhara-Vahlikaishcha).
Thus, this   Wikipedia   reference
source also identifies the noble Kshatriyas as being   BAHLIKAS   who
were associated with   the
Sakas, Tusharas, Vokanas, Hunas, Kambojas, Pahlavas, Tangana, Turukshas, etc.
and states them as the tribes located in the Uttarapatha   division.
The name   BAHLIKA   seems
to come from the name of lake   "Baikal"   in
Central Asia named   "BAIKAL
GÖLÜ"   in Turkish.   Evidently
all of these Turanians were near Lake Baikal in the past before their spread in
all directions on earth.
So the person named   "DHRSHTA"   was
one of the nine sons of   MANU   the
Father of mankind   - (i.e.,   "U
MAN (O MEN, MEN O)   in Turkish
meaning   "he/she/it
is (was) me"   and/or   "me
is (was) him/her/it" ).  By another word, the name MANU was another name
of   "ADAM "
the first man, that is, the father of mankind, - (i.e., the Turkish word   "ADAM"   meana   "man,
mankind, ancestor of mankind, human" , and similarly, the Turkish word   "ATAM"   means   "my
father, my ancestor father, ancestor of mankind" ). Thus, the source of
the name  MANU was Turkish, and so was the word ADAM (also so-called "ADEM")!
According to the   Puranic   traditions, from   Dhrshta   came
a number of clans called   Dharshtakas   who
were known as    Kshatriyas .
Now, let us identify the name of   Dharshtakas .
The name   DHRSHTAKAS , rearranged
as   "DHRHST-SAKA"
("DIRIST-SAKA") , is the anagrammatized form of the Turkish expression   "DÜRÜST
SAKA" (DOGRU SAKA)   meaning   "SAKA
with   perfect
integrity,   SAKA
the correct, honest, straightforward man, Saka the trustable man" .
The English word   "trust"   is
an altered and Anglicized form of the Turkish word " DÜRÜST ".
This expression in Turkish higlights the honest and trustable character of the
Saka Turks. The term   DHRSHT   (i.e.,   DÜRÜST   in
Turkish)   personifies the concepts of   "honesty,
fairness, justice, truth speaking, morally and physically good behaviour of man
to man" .   Since the so-called man   DHRSHT   ( DÜRÜST )
was the son of   MANU   the
god and the father of human beings, hence he was a personification of one of
God's attributions.  The name   SAKA   (also
Aryanized name " Scythian ") was a name of
early Turks.  The Pelasgians and Troyans were also the   SAKA   Turks.
The Trojan   SCAEAN
GATE   (i.e.,   "SAKA
KAPI"   in Turkish) in   Troy
(TUR ÖY)   carried their name.
The Turkish word   "SAKA"   also
means   "he
who deals with water activities such as fishing, sea transportation;   sea
going people;   bringer of water;
channellizer of water" .
Alternatively,   the name   DHRSHTAKAS , rearranged
as   "HST-DHR-SAKA"   or   "HSD-THR-SAKA"   is
the anagrammatized form of the Turkish expression   "ÜST
TUR SAKA"   meaning   "the
top most TUR SAKA", i.e., the   TUR
SAKA   people
with   perfect
integrity,   honesty,
straightforwardnes and openness" .
Thus the so-called   DHRSHTAKAS   were
another name of the noble KSHATHRIYA   peoples,
that is, they were the   SAKA
Turks .   According
to Shiva Purana, the Dharshtaka princes became rulers of Bahlika.
It must be noted that if the name   KSHATHRIYAS     was
rearranged letter-by-letter as   "IY-HRSHTAKAS" ,
we get a form of the name   DHRSHTAKAS ,
and similarly,   if the name   DHRSHTAKAS   was
rearranged letter-by-letter as   "DS-KSHATRHA" ,
we get a form of the name    KSHATHRIYA .
Thus, this illustrates to us the linguistic manipulations that these ancient
Vedic writing Aryan Brahmins were doing in order to come up with alternative
forms of words that they actually fabricated from ancient Turkish language
phrases.
The above  reference describes the   BAHLIKAS   people
as being   KSHATRIYA   people,
that is, being same as   the
Sakas, Tusharas, Vokanas, Hunas, Kambojas, Pahlavas, Tangana, Turukshas, and
others   and states them as the
tribes located in the UTTARAPATHA   division.   These
names are the names of Turanian Tur/Turk/Oguz peoples whom I will discuss below.
About the Indian word   UTTARAPATHA :
The Indian word   UTTARAPATHA ,   meaning
a division of Turanian peoples,   rearranged   as   "TUR-APA-ATA-TH"   ,
is the altered, and restructured form of the Turkish expression   "TUR
APAATA'TI"   meaning   "TUR
is the Grandfather" , that is,    "TUR
is the ancestor father" . This highlights and explains why
the term   UTTARAPATHA   meant
a   division
of Turanians, because they all had the common ancestor of   TUR .
Of course, the names   TUR,
TURK, TURAN ,   TURANIAN   all
come from this name of   "TUR
APAATA"   who
was not only a name of the Turanian God, but also the ancestor name of the
Turanians.
It should be noted that even if we had deciphered the name    UTTARAPATHA   as   "APA-ATA-TURTH" ,
we would find the Turkish expression   "APAATA
TUR'dI)   meaning   "the
Grandfather was TUR" , that is,   "the
ancestor father was TUR" ,   This
is exactly the sames as the meaning of the first decipherment in Turkish! Thus
the source and the meaning of the word   UTTARAPATHA   are
from Turkish.
See also the Wikipedia link at url   http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Uttarapatha
"A medieval era   Hindu   text
Kavyamimamsa by Pandit Rajshekhara attests that Uttarapatha lay to the west of
Prithudaka (modern Pehoa near Thaneswar in   Haryana .
The Kavyamimamsa further lists the   Sakas ,
Vokkanas,   Hunas ,   Kambojas ,
Keikayas, Bahlikas ( Bactrians ),   Pahlavas ,
Lampakas, Kulutas, Tanganas, Tusharas, Turushakas (Turks), Barbaras among the   tribes   of
Uttarapatha (Kavyamimamsa Chapter 17)."
***
The VEDIC CULTURE:
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vedic_culture
"The   Vedic Period   (or   Vedic
Age ) is the period during which the   Vedas ,
texts related to   early
Indo-Aryan religion , were being composed, during the period of roughly   the
mid second to mid first millennium BCE.
The associated culture, sometimes referred to as   Vedic
civilization , was centered in the northern and northwestern parts of the Indian
subcontinent .
Chronologically, its early phase overlaps with the   Late
Harappan period   and its late
phase with the rise of the   Mahajanapadas (early
Indo-Aryan kingdoms in India). After the end of the Vedic period, the
Mahajanapadas in turn gave way to the   Maurya
Empire   (from ca. 320 BCE), the   golden
age   of   classical   Sanskrit
literature ."
In the above reference, when they say that   "The
Vedic Period (or Vedic Age) is the period during which the Vedas, texts related to   early
Indo-Aryan religion ,
were being composed" , they actually and allegorically say that the Vedas
writing priests were stealing the ancient Turanian language by way of altering
and restructuring the Turkish words and phrases. This way, the Aryan Brahmin
priests Indo-Aryanized everything that belonged to the ancient Turanian
civilization in India. This also included the sneaky Aryanization of Turanian
peoples in India.  All of this by "Aryan Brahmins" was aimed at and resulted in
obliterating the ancient Turanians and their civilization from the history in
India.  All of these secretive activities, under the guise of composing the
early Indo-Aryan religious texts, took   about
one thousand years   between the
mid-second millennium B. C. and the mid-first Millennium B.C.  In that time, the
priests first killed the ancient Turanian religion, that is, the most ancient
religion of the world,   while
transferring everything about it into newly manufactured languages such as the
"Sanskrit" and also to other newly fabricated "Aryan and Semitic" languages. The
priests, with the use of what they learned from the ancient world wide Turanian
civilization, composed new religions that were used to divide and polarize the
public into religious compartments.  Such division and confusion technique was
conveniently used as a means to conquer, control and exploit the public.
The above reference refers to the rise of the so-called   MAHAJANAPADAS ,
that is, the early Indo-Aryan kingdoms in India. When we decipher this name, we
get enlightening results.
The name   MAHAJANAPADA ,
that is, the early   Indo-Aryan
kingdoms in India,   rearranged as   "MA-JAHAN-APADA" ,
is made up from Turkish expression   "MA
(AY) CIHAN APADI"   meaning   "The
moon is universal Father" .  This means that the priest killed the ancient
Turanian Sky-Father-God with Sun and moon being the eyes of the Sky-Father-God,
they secretly deified the Moon as the universal god. Thus, Sun worshipping was
abandoned and in its place Moon worshipping was adopted.
Turkish word   MA
(MAH, AY)   means   "moon" ,    CIHAN   means   "universe;
world" ,   APA   means   "father;
grandfather" .
Similarly, the name   MAHAJANAPADA ,
that is, the early   Indo-Aryan
kingdoms in India,   rearranged as   "MA-AJHAN-APADA" ,
is made up from Turkish expression   "MA
(MAH) AYHAN APADI"   meaning   "Ma
(Mah) is Ayhan the Moon Father" .  The Turkish name   AYHAN ,
meaning   "Moon
Lord" , was the name of one of the six sons of Oguz Kagan.
This identifies the dominant moon woshipping, that is, the beginning of   "Chandravansha"   or   Lunar
Dynasty   in India. With this
the so-called Indo-Aryanized   MAHAJANAPADA ,
that is,   the  moon worshipping and   supposedly   early   Indo-Aryan
kingdoms in India, replaced   the   Sun
Dynasty   or   Solar
Dynasty   or   Suryavansha   in
India.
***
About the name
TUSHARA (TUKHARAS, TOCHARIANS)
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tushara_Kingdom
"Tusharas   (alias
Tukharas,   Tocharians )
were a   Mleccha   tribe,
with their kingdom located in the north west of India as per the epic   Mahabharata .
An account in   Mahabharata   (Mbh
1:85) depicts Mlechchas as the descendants of   Anu ,
one of the cursed sons of king   Yayati .
Yayati's eldest son   Yadu ,
gave rise to the   Yadavas   and
youngest son   Puru   to
the   Pauravas   that
includes the   Kurus and   Panchalas .
Only the fifth son of Puru's line was considered to be the successors of
Yayati's throne, as he cursed the other four sons and denied them kingship.
Pauravas inherited the Yayati's original empire and stayed in the   Gangatic
plain   who later created the   Kuru   and   Panchala
Kingdoms . They were the followers of proper   Vedic
culture . Yadavas made central and western India their stronghold. The
descendants of Anu, also called Anavas migrated to   Iran ,
of which the Tusharas settled in Turkmenistan ,   Turkistan   (in   Afghanistan )
and   Turkey .
The Tushara country mentioned in the epic could be   Turkmenistan ,
a Central
Asian Republic   or the   Turkistan   of   Afghanistan .
The Atharavaveda- Parishishta [1 ]   associates
the Tusharas ( Tocharians )
with the   Sakas   ( Scyths ),   Yavanas / Yonas   ( Indo-Greeks )
and the   Bahlikas   ( Bactrians )
(Saka.Yavana.Tushara.Bahlikashcha). It also juxtaposes the   Kambojas   with
the   Bahlikas   (Kamboja-Bahlika...). [2 ]
This shows that the Tusharas were probably neighbours to these
peoples, possibly in   Transoxiana ."
This reference by Wikipedia also identifies   Thusharas   as
Turanian Tur/Turk/Oguz people in India.
***
CONCLUSIONS:
1.    All the references cited in this study, related to the ancient
Kshatriya rulers and peoples of India, clearly define them as the Central
Asiatic Tur/Turk/Oguz peoples who moved into India thousands of years ago and
carried on with their ancient civilization with exceptional upright ruling and
fearless military and heroic defending capabilities when necessary. This
military capability is even embedded in the name KSHATRIYA with the Turkish word
ASKERIYATI, meaning "house of soldiers". As the references indicate, the
KSHATRIYAs were all over the Indian subcontinent.
2.   All of the names or words that I deciphered above, which are regarded as
Sanskrit or Indo-Aryan words, were actually "linguistically engineered" words
that were anagrammatized from ancient Turkish into what is presently called
"Aryan" languages.  The Turkish words and phrases that were altered,
restructured and Aryanized , although having lost their Turkish identity, did
not lose their substance in the fabricated Aryan words.  They are still present,   although
in confused forms, in those alienated Aryan word formats. All of these again
corroborate what is stated in Genesis 11 as "Let us go down there and confuse
their language so that they do not understand one another".    Supposedly,
this was a religious order issued by an invisible God yet it is a total
falsehood contrived by supposedly "religious godly" people who were actually
magicians, sorcerers and con artists of Babylon.
3.    The name   KSHATRIYA   ,
first of all, is an alienated name that has the name   TURK   embedded
in it. This identifies the ancientKSHATRIYA   tribes
of India as the Tur/Turk/Oguz peoples - contrary to its confused format.
Additionally, the term KSHATRIYA is, what I call, a    "one
word"   information storage
system (memory, container) somehow built into Aryanized words. The relevant
Turanian information stored   in its
written verbal format is revealed when it is deciphered in different ways, but
in Turkish.
4.    Once again, the power of the decipherment capability of the Turkish
language has been demonstrated in this study. I have shown that no matter how
much a Turkish word or phrase has been altered, restructured and disguised in
the words of some languages, the monosyllabic nature of Turkish, together with
the meaning associated with the restructured word, helps to decipher the word
being examined.  In this regard, the mono-syllables of the Turkish language can
be likened to the engraved elementary bricks of an ancient bulding.  When the
building is destroyed, most of the elementary bricks are still intact and hence,
can be found. Thus my decipherments are linguistic excavations - just like the
excavation of a ruined building.
5.    With so many decipherments of the   so-called
"Indo-Aryan" Sanskrit   words and
names, this study proved that Sanskrit was also manufactured from Turkish,   just
as all other Aryan and Semite languages were.  Clearly, Sanskrit was an
artificially engineered language from Turkish!
6.    I showed that the Kshatriya peoples of ancient India (Hindustan) were
Turanian Tur/Turk/Oguz peoples and that they were the rulers and protectors of
ancient India. Hence, even many of the present peoples of India have a very
close connection with the Turks of Central Asia.  It is for that reason that
ancient India has also been mentioned among the ancient Turanians, just like the
names of Turanians in Hyde Clark's   paper   mentioned   above.
Evidently, they all belonged   to
one great group, that is, a family of families of allied Turanian languages
preceeding the so-called "Hellenic   culture".    In
Hindustan history, the Turanian Tur/Turk/Oguz peoples, called "Kshatrias", had
coexisted with other native and/or migrant groups.
7.    I showed that the term "Kshatriya", and its derivatives, embodied many
Turkish expressions having meanings that identified them as kings, rulers,
soldiers, generals, nobles; and also names such as Turk, Oguz, Azer, Saka, Uygur,
Kirgiz, Hun, Avar, Ayhan, Göyhan (Gökhan), AL BAŞ, KIZIL BAŞ,   ALAV
and many others.
8.   This study is contrary to other linguistic comparisons done by modern
linguists - which I believe are based on falsehood.  After all, if the words of
the known languages were made up from a basic monosyllabic agglutinative
language (i.e., Turkish) whose words and phrases were altered, restructured, and
camouflaged into new words of an alien language, then the resultant manufactured
words of the new languages (e.g., Sanskrit and other Aryan languages) cannot be
linguistically compared with the original Turkish   sourcetext
- because that would a superficial comparison which   results
in no valid findings.   This is because
no visual or audible relationship is left to compare and connect with.
Additionally the words of the Aryan and Semitic languages are   mostly   made
up from altered Turkish phrases - rather than simple words - therefore the
present linguistic comparisons are being done between altered phrases and known
Turkish words - which is like comparing apples and oranges.    This
loaded dice comparison has been   strongly   promoted
by modern linguists   as a linguistic
comparison method - thus guiding the readers and learners down the wrong path.    The
only way to make the true connection is the way that I have been doing - which
is, to extract the basic Turkish source text embedded in the Aryan and Semitic
words by decipherment, that is, by reverse engineering.  Of course this requires
a good knowledge of Turkish and the old Turkish culture!
9.   This presentation will enlighten the ancient history and mythology of India
with new insight and understanding. The history of the ancient Turanian people
and the ancient Turanian KSHATRIYA people, who were all sun worshipping people
and whose civilisation and grandeur were intentionally darkened - and then,
attributed to black-believing Aryans, will come back into daylight once again!
With best wishes to all,
Polat Kaya
(   25/05/2010
-   20/04/2011)