Who is GOD? : Conversation between Mother and a child. | Hiral's Blog
Hiral's Blog
February 9, 2011
Who is GOD? : Conversation between Mother and a child.
Filed under:
કંઇક જાણવા જેવું , India , own creation , Story , Thought
— hirals @ 11:57 am
Child’s question:
‘Who is GOD?’
Mother:
GOD is within you. GOD is in smallest form of life. GOD is there who has faith in him/her self. GOD is the person, who solves problems, who renounce their selfish desire, who serve people.
Child:
Adinath, Vishnu, Ram, Krishna, Mahavir all were men at their time?
They were use to eat, drink, think like we does? Why we consider them as GOD then?
Mother:
To understand that, you have to learn history, have to learn politics, have to learn and feel people’s problems then you will understand why they were considered as GOD.
Child:
Can you explain me?
Mother:
If we see and look history of our nation, they all showed path for progress/ peaceful life. Their path was solution of problems at their time( respective era).
Let me explain from where I know.
Many years ago, Rishbha was a king. 8,400,000 purva (592.704
Quintillion
Years Old)
In his time, people were not in the form of society. There was no culture defined.
He has identified
Asi (shastra vidya)
Masi (Pashupalan)
Krushi (farming)
Vidya (education)
Vyavhar (Business)
He formed society in his region/kingdom. It is the time when Vaidik Sanskriti was developed in parallel. (Rishabha is mentioned in the
Hindu
text of the
Bhagavata Purana
as an
avatar
of
Vishnu .). Jain called them ‘GOD Adinath’.
People were co-operative and kind hearted that time. People had just started building society and was obeying leader as we obey our father with great faith and respect.
Although Rishbha took leadership to form society, there were problems about mental peace. Still misery was there. King Rishbha did meditation at his highest ability and attained kevlya. So, in his old life he showed the path of Moksha by gaining self control. One can achieve highest state of piece when conquer his/her inner enemies. Again his path was ‘solution of problem of mental peace’.
In parallel Vaidik sanskriti showed many Yoga/Dhyan achievements for mental peace.
But, all these good practice was limited with certain group. Still there were people living in forest and were unknown with such culture and progress. (People like Ravan who was worshiping Vishnu/Shiva but in his kingdom people were not cultured. There were no ethics when dealing with common people.)
Child:
Interesting. Then what happened?
Mother:
then Ram (7323 B.C.E) formed a society (Ram Rajya)
He is pictured as the ideal man and the perfect human. For the sake of his father’s honor, Rama abandons his claim to Kosala’s throne to serve an exile of fourteen years in the forest. [2]
His wife
Sita
and brother
Lakshmana , unable to live without Rama decide to join him, and all three spend the fourteen years in exile together. This leads to the kidnapping of Sita by
Ravana , the
Rakshasa
( Asura ) monarch of
Lanka . After a long and arduous search that tests his personal strength and virtue, Rama fights a colossal war against Ravana’s armies. In a war of powerful and magical beings, greatly destructive weaponry and battles, Rama slays Ravana in battle and liberates his wife. Having completed his exile, Rama returns to be crowned king in
Ayodhya
(the capital of his kingdom) and eventually becomes emperor, [2]
rules with happiness, peace, prosperity and justice—a period known as
Rama Rajya .
Child:
Then everywhere happiness must be there in our Nation. Right?
Means ‘Ram’ was a ‘Man’ who solved his personal problems, solved problems of people at his time. And established ‘Ram Rajya’ great!
Mother:
Yes, my dear.
Child:
then How Krishna is considered as GOD? He was also a man? He used to play like me right?
Mother:
Krishna (July 3233 BCE) is often depicted as an infant or young boy playing a
flute
as in the
Bhagavata Purana , or as a youthful prince giving direction and guidance as in the
Bhagavad Gita
On his return to Mathura as a young man, Krishna overthrew and killed his uncle, Kansa, after avoiding several assassination attempts from Kansa’s followers. He reinstated Kansa’s father,
Ugrasena , as the king of the Yadavas and became a leading prince at the court. During this period, he became a friend of
Arjuna
and the other
Pandava
princes of the
Kuru
kingdom, who were his cousins. Later, he took his Yadava subjects to the city of
Dwaraka
(in modern
Gujarat ) and established his own kingdom there.
Kurukshetra War and Bhagavad Gita
Once battle seemed inevitable, Krishna offered both sides the opportunity to choose between having either his army called
narayani sena
or himself alone, but on the condition that he personally would not raise any weapon. Arjuna, on behalf of the Pandavas, chose to have Krishna on their side, and
Duryodhana , Kaurava chief, chose Krishna’s army. At the time of the great battle, Krishna acted as Arjuna’s charioteer, since this position did not require the wielding of weapons.
Krishna displays his
Vishvarupa
(Universal Form) to
Arjuna
on the battlefield of
Kurukshetra .
Upon arrival at the battlefield, and seeing that the enemies are his family, his grandfather, his cousins and loved ones, Arjuna becomes doubtful about fight. Krishna then advises him about the battle, with the conversation soon extending into a discourse which was later compiled as the
Bhagavad Gita . [4]
Child:
Means Krishna was a ‘Man’ who solved his personal problems, solved problems of people at his time.
Krishna’s   primary objective of reducing the growing power of the demons and relieving people from their cruelties. The secondary objective was fighting the historical battle in Kurukshetra in order to deliver justice to Pandavas. Having accomplished his missions and establishing peace ,
So, people started preaching/worshiping him as GOD, right?
Mother:
Yes, after then that, for many years peaceful life we can presume in India (No major loss/misery etc).
Child:
then why British people ruled us?
Mother:
Yes, let me come to those challenges in society.
Somehow weak/evil mind people started ‘Tantra Vidya’ for selfish motive. Also to understand the universe, by curiosity star/planets movements/their effect on natural disaster etc weak mind people started believing in Horoscope blindly. Horoscope theory were started basically by recording for many good/bad events happens in everyone’s life , planet’s movements at that time and based on that few laws formed accordingly for prediction in future. This is called ‘Astrology’. Also, while worshiping GOD (Ram/Krishna/few more imaginary), people started ‘Pashu Bali’ inspired by blind faith or to fulfill selfish motive in terms of wealth or power etc.
Child:
then, who gave right solution against that blind faith and misery? Education/School/University was not there that time?
Mother:
Mahavira (599–527 BCE) and Buddha felt extreme pain about misery in society and performed meditation for many years to get the answer of this misery. Both came with an answer that there is ‘No Creator of the earth’. Gave concept about how one can ‘conquer their inner enemies (negative emotions) and can feel strength inside and can be in happiness state forever’ Both started philosophy about ‘compassion and Non-violence’. Their idea was people should come out of ‘fear of GOD’ and from foolish activity people started performing while worshiping  like ‘Pashu Bali, Hom, Havan’ etc. They showed the path of ‘Right faith’,’Right knowledge’, and ‘Right Conduct’ can help you uplift yourself and one can reach at the state of ‘happiness forever’. That is called ‘Moksha’.
Child:
How he could do this?
Mother:
At the age of thirty Mahavira renounced his kingdom and family, gave up his worldly possessions, and spent twelve years as an
ascetic . During these twelve years he spent most of his time meditating. He gave utmost regard to other living beings, including humans, animals and plants, and avoided harming them. He had given up all worldly possessions including his clothes, and lived an extremely austere life. He exhibited exemplary control over his senses while enduring the penance during these years. His courage and bravery earned him the name
Mahavira . These were the golden years of his spiritual journey at the end of which he achieved
arihant
status.
Mahavira devoted the rest of his life to preaching the eternal truth of spiritual freedom to people around India. He travelled barefoot and without clothes, enduring harshest of climates, meeting people from all walks of life who came to listen to his message. At one point Mahavira had over 400,000 followers. Mahavira’s preaching and efforts to explain Jain philosophy is considered the real catalyst to the spread of this ancient religion throughout India.
Child:
so, Mahavira was also a ‘Man’ who solved his personal problems (questions), solved problems (questions) of people at his time. He showed the path to come out of ‘Fear from GOD’. Gave principle about ‘Anekantvad, syadvad , gunanuvad to make us realize ‘we all are connected’ He showed the path that ‘GOD is there in living being. Right?
Mother:
Yes, Dear, You understood right things. Thenafter for few years’ people were in mental peace. Brotherhood and value added life people started living called ‘Arya Sanskriti’.
But that was the time, when major challenges happened in India. Major challenges were related to ‘Nationality’. Major challenges were related to ‘Varna vyavastha became rigid and based on birth’; Major challenges were about ‘Greek attack’ and lake of values in people and in kings.
Child:
then?
Mother:
So, Chanakya (340–293 BCE) was an adviser to the first
Maurya
Emperor
Chandragupta
(c. 340–293 BCE), and was the chief architect of his rise to power.
Kautilya
and
Vishnugupta , the names by which the
ancient Indian
political treatise called the
Arthaśāstra
identifies its author, are traditionally identified with Chanakya. [5]
Chanakya has been considered as the pioneer of the field of
economics
and
political science . [6] [7] [8] [9]
In the Western world, he has been referred to as The Indian
Machiavelli , although Chanakya’s works predate Machiavelli’s by about 1,800 years. [10]
Chanakya was a teacher in
Takṣaśila , an ancient centre of learning, and was responsible for the creation of
Mauryan empire , the first of its kind on the Indian subcontinent. His works were lost near the end of the
Gupta dynasty
and not rediscovered until 1915. [11]
Child : So, again here a ‘Man’ who solved his personal problems, solved problems of people at his time. Then why we are not worshiping him as ‘GOD?’
Mother:
We don’t consider him GOD because he wrote many things by himself (called Chanakya Niti). By that time, education system was in shape so; people didn’t consider him a GOD. Kautilya’s role in the formation of the Mauryan Empire is the essence of a historical/spiritual novel
The Courtesan and the Sadhu
by Dr. Mysore N. Prakash
Child:
Was he teacher and Politian both? Wow!
Mother:
Yes, although education system was in shape, but people could still not come out of ‘Varna Vyavastha’. Many blind faith and dominating nature and traditions were there in practice on the name of religion. By that time, we forgot real ‘Vaidik sanskriti’. We started worshiping GOD in the form of Idols. Jain and Hindu both made those mistakes.
Child:
then who was our next GOD? I mean main ‘National Hero’ or leader?
Mother:
2 main strong minded/knowledgeable people came and solve problems at that time (that era). But many other leaders were also there as a freedom fighter. Many people renounced their selfish desire to serve people or to save Nation.
Child:
Who they were?
Mother:
On Mythology front we got great man called Swami Vivekananda ( Sanskrit : स्वामी विवेकानन्द
Bengali : স্বামী বিবেকানন্দ,
Shami Bibekānondo ) (January 12, 1863–July 4, 1902), born
Narendranath Dutta
( Bengali : নরেন্দ্রনাথ দত্ত) [12]
was the chief disciple of the 19th century mystic
Sri Ramakrishna Paramahamsa
and the founder of
Ramakrishna Mission . [13]
He is considered a key figure in the introduction of Hindu philosophies of
Vedanta
and
Yoga
in Europe and America [13]
and is also credited with raising interfaith awareness, bringing
Hinduism
to the status of a world religion during the end of the 19th century. [14]
Vivekananda is considered to be a major force in the
revival
of
Hinduism
in modern India. [15]
He is perhaps best known for his inspiring speech beginning with “Sisters and Brothers of America”, [16] [17]
through which he introduced Hinduism at the
Parliament of the World’s Religions
at
Chicago
in 1893. [12]
Swami Vivekananda was born in an aristocratic
Bengali
family of
Calcutta
in 1863. Swami’s parents influenced his thinking—the father by his
rational
mind and the mother by her
religious
temperament. From his childhood, he showed inclination towards
spirituality
and
God realization . While searching for a man who could directly demonstrate the reality of God, he came to Ramakrishna and became his
disciple .
As a
guru , Ramakrishna taught him
Advaita Vedanta
(non-dualism) and that all religions are true and service to man was the most effective worship of God.
After the death of his Guru, Vivekananda became a wandering monk, touring the
Indian subcontinent
and getting first-hand knowledge of India’s condition. He later sailed to
Chicago
and represented India as a delegate in the 1893 Parliament of World Religions. An eloquent speaker, Vivekananda was invited to several forums in the United States and spoke at universities and clubs. He conducted hundreds of public and private lectures and classes, disseminating
Vedanta
and
Yoga
in America, England and a few other countries in Europe. He also established the
Vedanta societies
in America and England. Later he sailed back to India and in 1897 founded the
Ramakrishna Math
and
Ramakrishna Mission , a philanthropic and spiritual organization.
Child:
Again here a ‘Man’, Who Gave strength especially at the time when British people were ruling India, he taught and spread ‘real vaidik Sanskriti’. A man who showed what is real ‘Vedanta science’ to the world and showed the path of serving people by considering all religious are true.
Mother:
Correct.
Child : Then who was another political hero?
Mother:
In parallel Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi (2 October 1869 – 30 January 1948) was the pre-eminent political and ideological leader of
India
during the
Indian independence movement . He pioneered
satyagraha . This is defined as resistance to
tyranny
through mass
civil disobedience , a philosophy firmly founded upon
ahimsa , or total
nonviolence . This concept helped India to gain independence, and inspired movements for civil rights and freedom across the world. Gandhi is often referred to as
Mahatma Gandhi
( [məɦaːt̪maː] ;
Sanskrit : महात्मा
mahātmā
or “Great Soul”, an
honorific
first applied to him by
Rabindranath Tagore ). [18]
In India he is also called
Bapu
( Gujarati : બાપુ,
bāpu
or “Father”). He is officially honored in India as the
Father of the Nation ; his birthday, 2 October, is commemorated there as
Gandhi Jayanti , a
national holiday , and worldwide as the
International Day of Non-Violence . Gandhi was assassinated on 30 January 1948 by
Nathuram Godse , a Hindu Nationalist.
Gandhi first employed
civil disobedience
while an expatriate lawyer in South Africa, during the resident Indian community’s struggle there for civil rights. After his return to India in 1915, he organized protests by peasants, farmers, and urban laborers concerning excessive land-tax and discrimination. After assuming leadership of the
Indian National Congress
in 1921, Gandhi led nationwide campaigns to ease poverty, expand women’s rights, build religious and ethnic amity, end
untouchability , and increase economic self-reliance. Above all, he aimed to achieve
Swaraj
or the independence of India from foreign domination. Gandhi famously led his followers in the
Non-cooperation movement
that protested the British-imposed salt tax with the 400 km (240 mi)
Dandi Salt March
in 1930. Later, in 1942, he launched the
Quit India
civil disobedience
movement demanding immediate independence for India. Gandhi spent a number of years in jail in both South Africa and India.
As a practitioner of
ahimsa , Gandhi swore to speak the
truth
and advocated that others do the same. He lived modestly in a
self-sufficient residential community
and wore the traditional Indian
dhoti
and shawl, woven from yarn that he had spun by hand himself. He ate simple vegetarian food, experimented for a time with a
fruitarian
diet, and undertook long
fasts
as a means of both self-purification and social protest.
Child:
Again here a ‘Man’, who solved his personal problem, solved problems of people at his time. We don’t consider last few centuries great leaders as a GOD because media was there by that time. Instead of creating Granth in Prakrit and Sanskrit, by that time, we made a film on our ‘Hero’.
Mother:
Yes, my dear. You understood very well now. That’s the reason, Education is important. Know history/problems and about great people who gave solution in their era.
—
Child:
Means Our History shows us path of serving people, mental peace, issues and solutions. No one was/is GOD. One who felt acute pain about people’s problems, acute pain about blind faith in common people. They raised their voice. Did meditation, renounced their selfish small desire and lived for people. They lived with vision. Lived in present and solved problems at their Time. We consider them either as GOD or as Leader or Guru. Now, who will be our Next ‘Hero or GOD?’
—
Mother:
Now, after seeing this whole history, the point is, in today’s world/present India, again new GOD has to come or may be around. There are many problems in present India. Like Corruption/Injustice/Population/Blind faith/ blind western culture followers etc.
We educated people/youth have to learn right things. Adopt moral values. Have to uplift our self and come out of blind faith/weakness of mind. In this Internet Era now it is important to understand and respect different cultures. Have to learn discipline life.  Have to be ‘hard working’. Have to renounce selfish desire and cherish brotherhood. Live in present and learn technology, politics. Feel the pain about present India’s problems and think solution about how we can solve that. ‘You too can be next ‘Hero’. Someone will call you as GOD; someone will call you a ‘Leader’.
© Hiral Shah
please give your valuable comments.
references:
1. Wikipedia.
2. Griffith, R.T.H. (1870–1874). The Rámáyan of Válmíki. London: Trübner & Co.; Benares: E. J. Lazarus and Co..
http://www.sacred-texts.com/hin/rama/index.htm .
3. “Deities: Krishna & Shishupal”.
http://www.mantraonnet.com/shopping/comic-books/gods/krishna-shishupal.html .
4. Krishna in the Bhagavad Gita, by Robert N. Minor in Bryant 2007, pp. 77–79
5. American Oriental Society. pp. 162–169. doi:10.2307/597102ISSN 0003-0279.
http://jstor.org/stable/597102 .
6. L. K. Jha, K. N. Jha (1998). “Chanakya: the pioneer economist of the world”, International Journal of Social Economics 25 (2-4), p. 267–282.
7. Waldauer, C., Zahka, W.J. and Pal, S. 1996. Kautilya’s Arthashastra: A neglected precursor to classical economics. Indian Economic Review, Vol. XXXI, No. 1, pp. 101-108.
8. Tisdell, C. 2003. A Western perspective of Kautilya’s Arthasastra: does it provide a basis for economic science? Economic Theory, Applications and Issues Working Paper No. 18. Brisbane: School of Economics, The University of Queensland.
9. Sihag, B.S. 2007. Kautilya on institutions, governance, knowledge, ethics and prosperity. Humanomics 23 (1): 5-28.
10. Herbert H. Gowen (1929). “The Indian Machiavelli” and in a much more conventional world.or Political Theory in India Two Thousand Years Ago, Political Science Quarterly 44 (2), p. 173–192.
11. Trautmann, Thomas R. (1971). Kautilya and the Arthaśhāstra: A Statistical Investigation of the Authorship and Evolution of the Text. Leiden: E.J. Brill. pp. 10.
12. Jestice, Phyllis G. (2003), Holy People of the World, ABC-CLIO, pp. 899
13. Georg, Feuerstein (2002), The Yoga Tradition, Motilal Banarsidass, p. 600
14. Clarke, Peter Bernard (2006), New Religions in Global Perspective, Routledge, p. 209
15. Von Dehsen, Christian D. (1999), Philosophers and Religious Leaders, Greenwood Publishing Group, p. 191
16. Vivekananda, Swami (11th September, 1893), [http://en.wikisource.org/wiki/The_Complete_Works_of_Swami_Vivekanand /Volume_1/Addresses_at_The_Parliament_of_Religions/Response_to_Welcome Response to Welcome], Parliament of Religions, Chicago,
http://en.wikisource.org/wiki/The_Complete_Works_of_Swami_Vivekanand
/Volume_1/Addresses_at_The_Parliament_of_Religions/Response_to_Welcome
17. Harshvardhan Dutt (2005), Immortal Speeches, p. 121
18. Bhattacharya, Sabyasachi (1997). The Mahatma and the Poet. New Delhi: National Book Trust, India. p. 1.
Like this: Like
Loading...
Related
Comments (17)
17 Comments	 »
Hiral,
I appreciate your ability to convince people of all age groups in an effective manner.
However, I do not advocate Gandhian philosophy. I have read his ‘My experiments with Truth’ and also gone through ‘Why I assassinated Mahatma Gandhi’ by Nathuram Godse (Gandhiji’s assassinator).
I do not hold Gandhiji responsible for freeing India. On the contrary, mismanagement on his and Mr. Nehru’s part gave India Pakistan; bitter fruits of which are being relished by Indians in general, and Kasmiris in particular.
The basic reason behind British leaving India was tremendous loses incurred by them during the second world war which lasted from 1939 to 1945.
If British had conceded to movements advocated by Gandhiji, British would have quit India during 1920 (Non-co-operation movement), 1930 (Civil Disobedience Movement), or 1942 (Quit India Movement).
If you observe carefully, you will get to know that in 1947, i.e. the year when India obtained freedom, no major nationwide movement was organized.
The basic problem with Gandhian philosophy was that he applied the rules which he advocated in Africa to uproot apartheid in India. He did not understand that India was fighting against communalism; which was completely different from apartheid. His vivisection of India cost India a lot.
Every initiative taken up by Gandhiji was shunned by the British.
After independence, Pakistanis started sending infiltrators to Jammu and Kashmir. Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, the then home-minister decided to send Indian army to curb this infiltrators. Prior to that, India was to pay Rs. 55 crores to Pakistan as a part of settlement. When Sardar Patel found out that Pakistanis are not agreeing on amicable terms, his decision to send armed forces to drive away intruders was a wise one. At first, he put forward a proposal in front of Pakistan- “Withdraw your intruders from J & K or else forget about those Rs. 55 crores”. When they did not relent, Mr. Patel sent military to rescue Kasmiris.
But, Gandhiji undertook fast unto death against this move……He said that Pakistanis should be explained the meaning of Ahimsa and India should pay Rs. 55 crores to Pakistan without such terms and conditions. Mr. Nehru had to bend at this gesture of Gandhiji and Rs. 55 crores were paid…and infiltration is still on at Kashmir.
Ultimately, Mr. Nehru shifted the issue of Kashmir to United Nations. Upon this, United Nations declared the following:
“Kashmir is neither a part of India nor a part of Pakistan. We advocate article 370 onto it; as per which Kashmir is a separate entity altogether.”
So, on the global level, J&K has a different flag !!!!!
Under the garb of Ahimsa, a lot of blood-shed took place in India before and after independence. For example- The incident of Chauri-Chaura (where 22 policemen were burnt alive) took place during non-co-operation movement.
I do not term Gandhiji bad as a person; but I personally feel that he was given undue imporatnce with regards to India’s freedom struggle.
That’s why, Gandhiji never received Nobel prize for peace; but his disciple “Martin Luther King” did receive.
Had Gandhiji not mixed up his ideologies against racism and communalism, the scenario would have been much different….
I have also gone through autobiography of Mr. Atal Bihari Vajpayee; who had walked hand-in-hand with Gandhiji to support these facts.
Comment by
Minal
— February 9, 2011 @
1:16 pm
|
Reply
@ Minal,
Many read my article today and I am happy for that. Thanks for your comment.
your knowledge about history and problems in our Nation.
—
My whole point was who so ever we worship in India as GOD/Idol, being Jain or Hindu all men/living person/normal life at their era. All came up with solutions of problems in their respective time. All worked hard to serve people in one or another way.
No one is perfect. So, everyone made mistakes.
Here no need to go into detail, what happened and how in current history?
Gandhiji could gather masses across Nation and could raise voice of patriotism.
He worked hard in vanishing ‘varna vyavastha’ or communism.
He worked hard in prohibition of alcohol (In India, according to our warm weather, which is not required. There are many side effects too at times)
He worked hard to stop ‘sati pratha’.
He worked hard in empowerment of women (he involved kastur ba in his almost all activities)
He worked hard for ‘widow re-marriages’.
He worked hard for ‘women education’.
Imagine situation /India before 100 years and you will notice, across India he could made many changes in real sense apart from ‘freedom movement’ or ‘satyagrah’.
—
My point was in India, when child ask about GOD, we teach them to see/worship GOD in Idol named them ram/Krishna/Mahavir/Vishnu etc.
My point was as a child, either due to curiosity when he/she tries to understand ‘creator of the universe’, misery, fear etc. we elder should not teach them ‘blind chanting mantras, or foolish / wasting time and energy activities which don’t help to serve others in their problems as a Nation.
One should not be biased about cast/creed/gender when learn about humanity/GOD.
Comment by
hirals
— February 9, 2011 @
4:18 pm
|
Reply
Hiral,
I am sorry if I end up hurting u right now, but let me bring certain facts to the fore:
1) Gandhiji never worked hard in vanishing varna vyavastha…….He just tried to unite Hindus and Muslims but ended up in advocating formation of Pakistan. Gandhiji could have easily brought Mohammad Ali Jinnah under control; but did not even make the slightest effort towards it.
:-(
Tell me, what did India gain out of it? Had India and Pakistan remained united,we would have surpassed even the U.S. and China and the 20th century would have belonged to us.Around 20% of India’s financial budget gets used for maintaining peace across the border; and the result is 0.
:-(
2) Gandhiji did preach people about side-edffects of alcohol; but, at the same time, he sided Muslims regarding consumption of beef. If he strongly believed in Ahimsa, he should have convinced Muslims regarding importance of vegetarianism…but he miserably failed on that count.
3) Gandhiji had nothing to do with Sati Pratha. It was the efforts of late Shri. Ishwarchandra Vidyasagar and late Shri. Raja Ram Mohan Roy that sati got banned in around 1930.
4) Widow-remarriage act was passed due to efforts of late Shri. Maharshi Dhondo Keshav Karve; who had himself set an example by marrying a widow. Gandhiji was nowhere connected with widow-remarriage movement.
5) Again, women’s education was not Gandhiji’s forte. Mahatma Jyotiba Phule and Maharshi Dhondo Keshav karve did a yoemen service on this count. Mahatma Jyotiba Phule educated his wife, Mrs. Savitribai Phule and both of them used to go to teach the people of all castes and creeds. People even pelted stones, blackened their faces; but these two did not stop their service.
Moreover, the seeds of patriotism were already sown in our people since the national uprising of 1857. Since then, innumerable people embraced death peacefully. Gandhiji did not have the courage to even get hurt; let alone giving his life.
Gandhiji did have only one plus point; and that was “Simplicity”. He did dare to visit England in a dhoti; thereby setting the trend of simplicity. His charkha was also a good move towards self-dependence. However, let me clarify over here that till 1920, Indian soil had witnessed loads of sacrifices and matrydoms. In other words, the foundation was already laid by people like Lokmanya Tilak. It was the Congress party; Pandit Nehru, in particular, to propogate the ideology of Gandhiji.
**********************************************************************************************************
Regarding GOD, let me state that Lord Ram, Lord Krishna, Gautam Buddha, Vardhaman Mahavir, Guru Nanak were not just men…..They had cast earthly forms to preach compassion, patriotism, peace, and non-violence in the positive sense.
Moreover, GOD never makes mistakes; and if he makes, he is not GOD. Lord Krishna had 16,108 wives; but he could cast 16,108 forms at a time. That’s why; he was termed as “Poorna Purushottam”. Lord Rama had cast earthly form to show the world that how should one be an ideal son, an ideal husband, an ideal brother, and an ideal ruler. When Ravana was to kidnap Sita Mata, Lord Ram had already instructed her to go to her shadowy form; to maintain her sanctity. Sita haran was done just to destroy Ravana and restore peace in Lanka.
Tell me Hiral, can a human being be present at 2 places at a time? This is the difference!!! U go to Gujarat, u will find people saying “Amaare tya Krishna Bhagwan che”. U go to Maharashtra, u will find people saying, “Amaare tya Krishna Bhagwan che”. Can u say that about human beings?
I agree that there is God in every living being; but He resides in the form of ‘inner voice’. This inner voice is meant to help people distinguish between right and wrong. If a being listens to his/her inner voice every time, he/she would develop a direct contact with God…which I have experienced many a times. However, I do not experience it always as I also make mistakes…..I am working towards it.
As a being grows, he/she holds the responsibility towards three things:
1) Himself/herself
2) Family (parents,siblings, relatives, friends)
3) Society (ur birthplace and the world)
If these responsibilities are fulfilled in the right manner, the respective being will never have any regrets about doing anything. It’s the inner voice which keps a person alert regarding his duties towards the above three media. This inner voice is GOD.
To increase the aura of inner voice is in our hands. When this aura reaches 100%, the respective person and GOD become ONE. Again, there are three ways to achieve this oneness:
1) Dnyan
2) Bhakti
3) Karma
It’s on an individual; which path to walk on. Regarding enchanting of mantras or praying, let me apprise you that these things are taught to the child so that the child obtains divine strength through their enchantment and remains away from wrong practices.
It has been my personal experience- When I start with my own prayers every morning (with the wish of God, of course), I see a divine light getting induced in me. In other words, I see the distance between me and GOD getting reduced day by day. If u ebnchant mantras just for the heck of enchanting them, nothing would be observed. If u do it with 100% concentration, u will see the difference.
The transfusion of divine light in to me every single day has made me confident to such an extent that I don’t fear doing anything that involves dare-devilry. For e.g.: When I walk 3 Kms from railway station to my home daily (after office hours), I do not find any lady on the road; as that road is quite unsafe for girls. Even my mother raised apprehensions about it in the beginning. But, when I walk, I do not fear as I see GOd’s footprints with mine!!!!
I am waiting for the day when aura of my inner voice will reach 100% and I would become ONE with GOD.
I am once again sorry if I have hurt u; but a common man cannot be equated with GOD (G-Generator, O-Organizer, D-Destroyer).
Comment by
Minal
— February 10, 2011 @
5:00 am
|
Reply
There is nothing to hurt me.
One who can renounce their selfish desire and live for society can reach to 100% of Oneness.
Now, about 3 ways you have mentioned. By birth, I am Jain. (GOD Mahavira’s path is ‘Dhyan’. No kriya , no Bhakti…just karma Nirjara and all…methods in meditation to uplift etc.) According to Jain, Ram and Krishana etc all Hindu GOD did many mistakes. They are not ‘Tirthankara’. They are in ‘Narak’. Can you believe that being Hindu? But there are books and books describing karma theories and explaining that 
According to Hindu, GOD Mahavira did just Dhyan, what was big deal in it?
So, here, matter of faith. Whom you know and worship deeply, you don’t see their faults/mistakes.
I too know contribution about Raja Ram mohan ray, Lok manya tilak and many more….and agree with you about their efforts.
But I have seen in freedom fighter’s house, they put ‘Gandhi’s photo in Puja Ghar. Those who directly worked under him. In many Indian’s house that is still there. Not all I agree.
—
When people were not educated, what all about Ram, Vishnu, Krishna, Mahavir, ppl studied in mythology. (It was just they ‘listen’ those scriptures and recite stanzas with great faith)
It was just in scriptures written by Rushi muni at their time and made their picture as addressing them ‘Purna purush’ and from centuries we listen and believe accordingly. So, we believe they are GOD.
Later, we don’t do that…because we occupied with studying many more subjects like maths, science, social study, literature etc. and many ppl wrote about current history and put on paper different aspects as what they have seen. Now, all Rushimuni or monks are occupied with ‘mental piece’ and they don’t create scriptures in Sanskrit, or prakrit etc. or no one does good job as what ppl did before centuries.
—
But no one can deny fact about ‘Universal power’. And that power is there within all living being too. I agree with you about ‘Oneness’.
GOD is a subject of faith not subject of fight
:)
‘In India, many problems due to religion fight’
Comment by
Hiral
— February 10, 2011 @
9:43 am
|
Reply
Dear Hiral,
While posting the comment, I have not distinguished between Gods as being Hindu Gods, Jain tirthankars, etc. I put all in the same category, i.e. ‘GOD’. Still, I forgot to add Prophet Mohammad, Jesus Christ and Zarathushtra in the list.I agree that God is a matter of faith.
3 out of 6 neighbors of mine are Jains. I have visited their derasars and gone through certain scriptures of theirs as well. I have seen their way of life and do respect Jainism as well.
At our place, there is a common wall between ‘Laxminarayan Temple’ and ‘Jain Derasar’. Then, at the throw of the hat, u will find a mosque; and some distance later, a church. However, during festivals, all of us come together and celebrate; be it Id, Christmas, Puryushan, or Janmashtami.
Loads of communal riots took place after independence. But, at our place; we stood united; and will stand united forever.
At no place in my comment I have said that preacher of certain religion committed this mistake; or certain God is in Narak.
I have been taught since childhood that the central idea of every religion is the same. The ways of conveying it might be different and it is ‘Love’.
I have also read the holy ‘Quran’ and ‘Bible’; and all of them teach nothing but compassion and consideration.
Another point:
The ones who say that so-and-so God committed this mistake, or Vardhaman Mahavir just meditated; and as u say that some books say this; I would just say that this attitude can be termed as nothing except “Bankruptcy of the Brains”……..these people can never come out of their self-woven communal shell and spread negativity.
Such destruction-oriented books should be burnt and used to cook food where LPG has not yet reached!!!
If every person tries to grasp the gist of every religion, he/she would automatically involve himself/herself in selfless service towards the society as the barriers of caste, creed, religion would get eliminated by themselves. Unless and until people learn to accept the goodness of all the religions, prosperity cannot be thought of…:-(
“Love”, i.e. the basic idea of every religion involves everything: love towards each other being the first and the foremost thing. This love encourages one to serve everyone without expecting anything in return.
Regarding Gandhiji, the one who would work with him is going to look upon him as great. Nothing new……The facts stated by me would see the light of the day after Congress gets wiped out..but I really cannot predict when this would happen……..as the legacy of Nehru family is being carried forward till date…..
Lal Bahadue Shashtri was alo born on 2nd of October…but no one felicitates him…as no one finds time from felicitating Gandhiji………
Swarg and Narak do not come in to picture at all. Moreover,
Comment by
Minal
— February 10, 2011 @
10:29 am
|
Reply
Here I wanted to show a child that all were men at their time, all tried to solve problems of people at their time. Many mistakes have been done. ‘Varna Vyavastha’ was in mythology. From centuries that practice was there. Still in many home, many villages people take ‘bath’ if backward class person they touch by mistake. In my both home too that practice is there 
We young people don’t believe because of education and technology era.
So, many a times, people learn wrong thing and becoming fundamentalist.
There is nothing that, how ‘you’ or ‘I’ see our area or society where we live.
The point is…still there is problem about religion fight comes to bride when ‘intercast marriage’. Why so? Two person ‘Love’ and marry but still in many case, ‘bride’ if of different cast, don’t get space in people’s heart because of religion difference/cast difference.
We can’t cover all 33 crore dev, devi or jesus and many other religion obviously.
Overall, In India, at ground level stills many problems exists due to blind belief and rigidness about religion followers, in that sense, I tried some different approach to look ‘what problems in society at respective time’ and how ‘great faith/compassionate’ people came and took leadership.
Comment by
Hiral
— February 10, 2011 @
10:52 am
|
Reply
from yr comment:
If every person tries to grasp the gist of every religion, he/she would automatically involve himself/herself in selfless service towards the society as the barriers of caste, creed, religion would get eliminated by themselves. Unless and until people learn to accept the goodness of all the religions, prosperity cannot be thought of…:-(
—
That exactly, is a right ‘religion’.
All were men at their time. and we all have that ability. they gave ‘solution to respective problems at their respective time.’ religion formed by ‘followers’ of those great men.
Comment by
Hiral
— February 10, 2011 @
11:14 am
Hiral,
Regarding unifying the masses, I would always like to join hands with anyone who would have the same objective. My family is my biggest inspiration in this regard. My two aunties are Tulu (a dialect of Karnataka) and Maharashtrian respectively. My fua’s daughter has married a guy from Haryana. My kaka’s son has recently married a Bengali girl. All these marriages were solemnized with great pomp and show in our family. The broad-minded attitude of my grandmother is an example of ‘sarva dharma samabhaav’.
Also, one of my distant cousins has married an American girl. She is also warmly welcomed by all; right from a toddler to the aged person.
Comment by
Minal
— February 10, 2011 @
12:07 pm
|
Reply
I appreciate your Grand-Mother and your family.
:)
Comment by
Hiral
— February 10, 2011 @
12:38 pm
|
Reply
One of your best posts !! With dialoage and conversion, you went through from Ancient India to morden India and its Gods (leaders). Can’t agree more than what you conclude..
:-)
Comment by
Uday Trivedi
— February 11, 2011 @
10:40 am
|
Reply
“Gandhiji did not have the courage to even get hurt; let alone giving his life.” – I would say only someone who has not truely understood Gandhiji can say like this. His whole life was example of nothing but courage, sheer courage to stand with Truth and against injustice. He might have done mistakes – that is ok, everybody would do so, but he always tried to purify his inner intent. No wonder that he followed Srimad Rajchandra and Jainism along with almost all religions in real sense. There can be debates about his outside work, but no debate about his inner self. Period.
Comment by
Uday Trivedi
— February 11, 2011 @
11:10 am
|
Reply
I enjoyed the duel!!
Comment by
Suman
— February 11, 2011 @
2:05 pm
|
Reply
via email.
Dear Hiral,
I appreciate your good thoughts and sentiments.
There is much to be done, and much to be said and written. I am glad that you are inspired to write and to educate, and long may this spirit live. Your article is good and I admire your sentiments. I agree that India sometimes needs to make God human and real rather than remote and far away. But it does do this also e.g. through the Gurus – some of whom are very pragmatic.
Best wishes for your endeavours, there are many more articles on my website below.
Atul
DR. ATUL K. SHAH – Chief Executive Officer
Diverse Ethics Ltd., A Social Enterprise
Pioneering advisers, trainers and researchers on Diversity and Ethics in the Workplace
9 Redmill, Colchester, CO3 4RT
Tel: 07804 294903
Email:
atul@diverseethics.com
Website:
http://www.diverseethics.com
Are your following the ‘Masala Tour of Britain’ which is generating huge grassroots interest – find out more at
http://www.diverseethics.com/category/masala
and sign up to the email newsletter
A very large inter-active internet portal transforming the global workplace, packed with topical and informative articles, interviews, advice and leading edge strategic innovations.
Co. Regn No. 5872648
Comment by
hirals
— March 2, 2011 @
6:01 pm
|
Reply
Interesting.
Comment by
Pancham Shukla
— March 18, 2011 @
3:21 pm
|
Reply
Very good article and very good discussion. Nothing more to add except..
God is a concept and is seen by different societies in different way. What is common is …
Respect for Godliness. I like your statement –
My whole point was who so ever we worship in India as GOD/Idol, being Jain or Hindu all men/living person/normal life at their era. All came up with solutions of problems in their respective time. All worked hard to serve people in one or another way.
The human society will eneter next epoch in its evolution when it imbibes ‘Art of Living’ ; instead of beliefs.
Comment by
સુરેશ જાની
— June 4, 2013 @
8:45 pm
|
Reply
Good thinking. Liked.
Comment by
સુરેશ
— October 27, 2013 @
12:32 pm
|
Reply
Very interesting and thought provoking article and discussion .
Comment by
Vinod R. Patel
— October 28, 2013 @
1:45 am
|
Reply
RSS
feed for comments on this post.
TrackBack
URI
Leave a Reply
Cancel reply
Enter your comment here...
Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:
Email
(required)
(Address never made public)
Name
(required)
Website
You are commenting using your WordPress.com account.
(  Log Out  /  Change  )
You are commenting using your Twitter account.
(  Log Out  /  Change  )
You are commenting using your Facebook account.
(  Log Out  /  Change  )
You are commenting using your Google+ account.
(  Log Out  /  Change  )
Cancel
Connecting to %s
Notify me of new comments via email.
Blogroll
ઈવિદ્યાલય-‘વિદ્યા દાન એ સર્વ શ્રેષ્ઠદાન છે‘.
હિરલ એક નજરે.
e-Jaina Library
E-Science Center
EVidyalay
My Non-technical Blog
My Technical Blog
ઇ-વિદ્યાલય
ઈ-વિદ્યાલય, નવી સામગ્રી
બાળકને શું કહેવું, શું ન કહેવું ? બાળક બહુ ચંચળ હોય તો ? – મૌલિક બક્ષી જમ્બો સાથે ગાડી ચલાવો
ગુજરાતી જોડણીકોષ
વેબગુર્જરી
જન્મદિવસ નોંધપોથી
Recent Comments
nabhakashdeep
on
સ્ત્રી એટલે? સ્ત્રી સ્વાતંત્ર્… સુરેશ
on
ચટર – પટર readsetu on
છ મહિનાથી અઢી વરસનાં બાળકો સાથ… hirals on
છ મહિનાથી અઢી વરસનાં બાળકો સાથ… મૌલિક રામી "વિચાર"
on
છ મહિનાથી અઢી વરસનાં બાળકો સાથ…
Search for:
Archives
Archives
Select Month
October 2015  (8)
September 2015  (4)
August 2015  (3)
July 2015  (4)
June 2015  (5)
May 2015  (4)
April 2015  (2)
March 2015  (3)
February 2015  (5)
January 2015  (2)
November 2014  (1)
October 2014  (9)
September 2014  (7)
August 2014  (1)
July 2014  (2)
February 2014  (1)
January 2014  (1)
December 2013  (1)
November 2013  (1)
October 2013  (4)
September 2013  (2)
August 2013  (3)
January 2013  (1)
December 2012  (1)
November 2012  (1)
October 2012  (2)
February 2012  (1)
September 2011  (1)
August 2011  (4)
July 2011  (3)
May 2011  (1)
April 2011  (2)
March 2011  (2)
February 2011  (10)
January 2011  (9)
December 2010  (12)
November 2010  (8)
October 2010  (1)
September 2010  (3)
August 2010  (2)
July 2010  (17)
June 2010  (23)
May 2010  (10)
April 2010  (10)
March 2010  (6)
March 2009  (1)
Categories
Categories
Select Category
12 Bhavna  (14)
અત્તરકયારી  (1)
આધ્યાત્મિક વિકાસ Vs. ભૌતિક વિકાસ  (8)
ઉત્તરાધ્યાન સુત્રમાંથી  (12)
એક વહુની ડાયરી  (1)
કંઇક જાણવા જેવું  (65)
ગમતા પોસ્ટર  (1)
ચરિત્ર-સેલ્ફી  (1)
દોહા  (1)
પાઠ્યપુસ્તકની કવિતાઓ  (3)
બાળ ઉછેર  (13)
બાળ બુધ્ધિ  (32)
મનની વાત  (9)
મા મુખેથી  (1)
મારી ગુજરાતી વાર્તાઓ  (3)
મારી બાળવાર્તાઓ  (2)
હીરા જેવું ર્હદય  (1)
Book review  (3)
Creativity  (4)
Education  (35)
EVidyalay  (4)
Examplary Life  (15)
Experience to share  (26)
Favorite Vedio  (10)
Gujarat  (11)
Health  (1)
India  (24)
Jain Meditation  (9)
Jina  (26)
બાળ-કલ્પ્નાસૃષ્ટિ  (21)
Letter series  (4)
own creation  (46)
poem  (20)
Pratikraman  (13)
Pratikraman Sutra  (11)
Spiritual  (68)
Story  (12)
Thought  (94)
Meta
Register
Log in
Entries
RSS
Comments
RSS
Create a free website or blog at WordPress.com .
Top Posts
સ્ત્રી એટલે? સ્ત્રી સ્વાતંત્ર્ય એટલે?
ઉત્તરાધ્યાન સુત્રમાંથી કંઇક જાણવા જેવું
Shri Siddha Chakra Yantra/Puja/Oli
ચટર - પટર
Who is Mahavira? and What was his contribution to the society?
ઉત્તરાધ્યાન સુત્રમાંથી કંઇક જાણવા જેવું
સર્વ શિક્ષાનું સારતત્વ
The Rubric Theme .
Create a free website or blog at WordPress.com .
Follow
Follow “Hiral's Blog”
Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.
Join 59 other followers
Build a website with WordPress.com
%d
bloggers like this: