Free All in one resource guide
Free All in one resource guide
Welcome to the new and improved All In One Search - the one-Nonstop search resource. Our ever popular internet resource guides are now complemented by a powerful search tool
Pages
Home
Health Source
Incredible India
GUIDE
Loading...
Wednesday, November 20, 2013
INDIA AT A GLANCE
AREA (" 3,287,262 square kilometers ")
POPULATION
(" 1 billion officially (closer to 1.5 billion if all
responded to the census)")
CAPITAL
(" New Delhi ")
RELIGION
The religious demographics of the Republic of India show a predominance of Hinduism
as the main religion in India accounting for 80% of the population. The second largest
religion is Islam (13%).The other natively Indian religions, Buddhism, Jainism and
Sikhism taken together account for less than 3%. About 2% of Indians adhere to Christianity
and 2% are other religions.
WEATHER
Because of India's size, its climate depends not only on the time of year, but also
the location. In general, temperatures tend to be cooler in the north, especially
between September and March. The south is coolest between November to January. In
June, winds and warm surface currents begin to move northwards and westwards, heading
out of the Indian Ocean and into the Arabian Gulf. This creates a phenomenon known
as the south-west monsoon, and it brings heavy rains to the west coast. Between
October and December, a similar climatic pattern called the north-east monsoon appears
in the Bay of Bengal, bringing rains to the east coast. In addition to the two monsoons,
there are two other seasons, spring and autumn.
CLIMATE
Because of the unusual topography of the land, climatic conditions are widely diversified
on both a seasonal and regional basis. The coolest weather lasts from November to
mid-March, with cool, fresh mornings and evenings and dry, sunny days. Really hot
weather, when it is dry, dusty and unpleasant, is between April and June. The mean
temperature is approx. 29 degree Celsius or 84.2 Fahrenheit.
SYSTEM OF GOVERNMENT
India is a constitutional democracy. There are 28 states and 7 union territories.
Parliament is bicameral; the lower house is known as the Lok Sabha (House of the
People) and the upper house is known as the Rajya Sabha (Council of States).
VISA TO INDIA
Indian Missions Abroad are the right place to acquire your Visa to India. You may
seek a tourist visa to India, business visa to India, student visa to India, employment
visa to India, transit visa to India, or an entry visa to India, from these Indian
missions abroad. The Embassies of India, High Commissions of India, and the Consulate
Generals of India, will be happy to help you get a Visa to India.
CURRENCY EXCHANGE
Money:
The currency is the Indian Rupee (INR), which is divided into 100
paise (singular paisa). Major currencies can be changed at banks, and authorised
bureaux de changes as well as at Hotels. No matter what time you arrive in India
there will be an exchange office open at the airport. It is illegal to exchange
money through the black market and it is advisable to refuse torn notes, as no one
will accept them apart from the National Bank. It is best to change money into small
denominations. Travellers cheques and major credit cards are widely accepted, particularly
in tourist orientated establishments. ATMs are generally available in all the major
cities and towns
TRADING HOURS
Banks are open from 1000hrs - 1400hrs Monday through Friday and 1000hrs-1200 Noon
on Saturday. Variations occur, so please check. In some tourist centres, there may
be Bureaux de Changes that remains open later. Shops are open 0930hrs – 1900
hrs Monday through Saturday. In established markets, shopping hours usually stretch
on till night falls. Market trading days and business hours vary. Check in advance
with us.
VOLTAGE
Standard voltage is 230-240V (usually 240V). Pack a universal travel adaptor that
will allow you to use a hairdryer, electric shaver, charge a mobile ‘phone
or minidisc/CD Walkman. Take care with your choice of adaptor. Be sure that it is
suitable for India, as Indian sockets accept round 3 pin plugs that are similar
but not identical to European plugs.
TOURIST HAWKERS.
Meeting you in the street or watching you walk out of your hotel. These professionals
dressed in western clothing, speaking perfect English are quick to start up a conversation.
They will offer you assistance to find where you want to go or invite you for a
cold drink. The best response is to ignore them. No matter what do not get into
a conversation with them, let them walk with you or take you anywhere.
During your visit to Monuments you will find many Hawkers chasing you over their
wares. The best solution in this case is to ignore them if you do not intend to
buy and not to enter into any price negotiation. If buying you need to be good at
negotiating prices and need to watch your pockets and cameras as many hawkers surround
you at the same time and you may end up getting your pocket picked.
TAXIS / AUTORICKSHAWS
If arriving on your own at airports or railway stations, hordes of touts and taxi
men will crowd around you and offer to take you to wherever you need to go. You
are very likely to get overcharged upon reaching your destination. You are not expected
to tip taxis. If you are unsure about the cost conversions - which are usually one
and a half times to twice what the meter reads, you can always ask for a meter card
from the driver.
When venturing out and about, you may need to take an auto rickshaw or taxi. Be
sure to give your directions to your exact destination and be sure to ask for the
direct route with no stops offs, shopping or detours on the way. Do not allow any
extra co-passenger with you.
Taxis charge a minimum fare of about Rs 8 and auto-rickshaws about Rs 5 for the
first kilometre. There are no extras, except for luggage for which Rs. 5 is charged
per piece and a late night charge for travel between 11 pm and 5 am.
POSTAGE
Post Card stamps are available at post offices and at some souvenir kiosks and hotel
receptions. Indian postal services are generally excellent. Expected letters are
almost always there and letters you send almost invariably reach their destination
TELEPHONE
The international direct dialing code for India is 91. Telephone booths are available
in all towns/villages. (24hr service is available in large hotels). Please check
with your mobile phone provider if your network & contract enable you to have
coverage in India. You can also take a prepaid mobile connection on your arrival
in India. But due to security reasons, the procedure is time consuming as a lot
of paperwork is required.
INTERNET CAFES & E-MAILS
Like all other countries Internet Cafes are easily available at main cities except
for small villages & towns. Most of the Hotels have internet facilities for
the clients to use at a nominal cost.
WATER
There is no scarcity of drinking water in India. Most towns and cities have a well
planned system of over head tanks that store water which can be used as and when
the need be. Though Indian drinking water is clean, it is advisable that you have
bottled water only. Bottled mineral water is available all through India in all
roadside shops as well as in Hotels. As a precaution you are advised to drink mineral
water only and do not forget to check the manufacturing and expiry date on the bottle.
TOILET & FACILITIES
Public Toilets, when they can be found are usually ‘squats’ – holes
in the floors with the footrest at either side. They come with a compulsory usage
of Rs 5- Rs10. They can be of poor hygienic standards. Most come with a water squirter
for washing yourself, so always have a paper with you. Always pack some toilet papers
and anti bacterial wipes for your comfort.
CREDIT CARDS
Major credit cards are generally accepted by large establishments, including hotels,
shops and airlines. Hotels may refuse to accept credit cards at certain destinations.
It is best to pre check with your booking agent.
ATMS & CASH MACHINES
ATM’S and cash machines are easily available in big cities in India but not
in villages & small towns.
SECURITY OF PERSONAL BELONGINGS
Avoid carrying valuable things. Wear a money necklace or stitch a pocket inside
your outfit to keep important documents like passport, credit cards, travellers'
cheques, etc. It's always better to take photocopies of important documents and
leave them with someone trustworthy. Make sure you keep a card mentioning important
contact numbers, your age, blood group, etc, so that people may help you in the
event of an emergency. Also make sure to carry the Hotel Card from reception if
you are going out on your own – You might lose your way back!
Carry only essentials Taking cognisance of time, place and season of visit, carry
only the most important things with you. Avoid unnecessary items like too much of
eatables, bulky clothing, heavy items, etc.
WOMEN TRAVELLERS IN INDIA
India is a very warm and hospitable country. Though modern in most aspects, India
still remains traditional. The western influence is very much there in India, but
it is not very appealing to the Indian sensibilities. It is not always safe for
women to travel alone. Don't wear clothes that are revealing or provocative. When
in India, it is best to cover up yourself so as not to attract unwanted attention.
Women can roam around in jeans and tee shirts, long cotton pants and cotton shirts.
Skirts, if long are much better than the short ones. It is not quite advisable to
show public displays of affection as it may attract lewd remarks and gestures. Refrain
from any such physical activity that is intimate.
HANDLING BEGGARS
You may see lots of beggars on the streets, the main roads and on the traffic signals,
begging for alms. Though most of them leave after begging for a minute or two, handling
beggars in India is an acquired skill as some may be too nudging and reluctant to
leave unless you give them some money. In order to help you out, we bring you some
beggar handling tips that will prove useful during your travel in India.
1. You can give food or eatables to the handicapped and the really old ones. But,
look out for some beggars posing as handicapped ones. They trade crutches with fellow
beggars and go around begging.
2. Some women beggars with a small malnourished baby may use hand gestures to signal
they are hungry. It is okay to give them food or eatables. But, watch out for some
women who trade babies for this purpose.
3. Don't be surprised to see children begging on the streets. Most of them are young
kids, hardly 5 years old, who have been sent by their parents to beg for money.
It is best to give them some left over food or candy. Children can't resist candies
and it is better than giving them money.
4. We strongly recommend that you do not offer money to beggars as it encourages
a well organised criminal syndicates running the begging business.
PHOTOGRAPHY
For amateur photography of national monuments, there are no restrictions on taking
photographs with a still camera (with flash inside the camera synchronized with
exposure) or an 8mm.movie camera. At few monuments there is a camera fees applicable
for still cameras as well as video cameras.
FOOD PRECAUTIONS IN INDIA
The vast range of food offered in India tempts most people. While this lip smacking
food is usually prepared with much care, some of it may be contaminated. That is
how people tend to fall ill while on their trip to India. Certain food precautions
in India have to be followed by tourists. These Indian food precautions are for
your own benefit and well-being. So go through these safety measures for food in
India and stay healthy!
1. Always have food that is hot. Warm food is a bit risky and one may fall ill.
2. Avoid cut fruits and salads since they have high levels of contamination. Go
for unpeeled fruits, as they are the safest. It is recommended to wash the fruits
before.
3. Do not have fresh fruit juices from the roadside juice stalls. Go for packed
juices that are branded or bottled sodas.
4. Do not have food from roadside vendors. They are usually contaminated with dust
and flies.
5. If you want to have non-vegetarian food, go to a decent restaurant that locals
may recommend.
6. Avoid eating at dingy restaurants and the ones that are empty. Empty restaurants
are a sign that the food is not that great.
7. There are many fast food joints and international names in all major cities.
If you cannot find a decent restaurant while touring, go to these joints.
SHOPPING IN INDIA
Every tourist who visits Indiawishes to take back a part of this lovely country.
Shopping in India is the ideal way to fulfill your wish of taking a memory of India
with you. Indian shopping attractions offer a variety of items to suit your diverse
needs and taste. Ask your booking agent for a list of authentic places of shopping
in every city as per your requirements and interest.
TRAIN TRAVEL IN INDIA
Travelling by train is one of the great experiences in India, and a good way to
meet Indian people. According to the itinerary, these may be during the day or night..
Useful tips while traveling on trains in India
1. Beware of pickpocket while boarding or de-boarding the train.
2. Do not accept any eatables from unknown persons/unknown fellow passengers. Refuse
politely.
3. Never leave your luggage/valuables unattended especially when the train is not
moving. Take extra care of your cameras and other small but valuable equipment.
4. After de-boarding from the train, wait for our representative at the platform
itself. Railway stations normally have more than one exit. If you have arranged
a pick up service with us and in the unlikely event of our representative not already
being there, it is advisable to wait at the platform for him, making it easier for
him to locate you.
USEFUL PHRASES
When traveling in India, having an idea of common Indian phrases will help you in
communicating more effectively with the locals. These frequently used phrases in
India are usually very handy when you want to know your surroundings better and
mingle with the locals. It also ensures that you are not taken for a ride in an
unknown country. You will find help right away if you are stuck in a situation,
as you are able to communicate at a more personal level with people around you.
Check out this list of common helpful phrases for conversing with people in India.
English Phrase
Hindi Translation
Hello
Namaste/Namaskar
How are you?
Kaise hain?
I am fine
Main theek hoon
Goodbye
Main chalta hoon (chalti for female)
How much/ What is the cost?
Kitna hua/ kitna daam hai?
I want to go to hotel
Mujhe hotel jana hai
Can you please help me?
Kya aap meri madad karenge?
What is your name?
Apka naam Kya hai?
My name is …
Mera naam … hai
Yes
Haan
No
Nahi
Thank you
Shukriya/ Dhanyavaad
OK/Fine/Good/Whatever
Achaa
What happened?
Kya hua?
Posted by
Bajaho
at
11:05 AM
No comments:
Labels:
INDIA AT A GLANCE ,
Railway stations in India
INTERNATIONAL FACTS
India Facts
India is officially known as the Republic of India.
India has the second largest population in the world, with over 1.2
billion people
(1,205,073,612 as of July 2012).
India is the seventh largest country by total area.
India belongs to the continent of Asia, it is bordered
by the
countries of Bangladesh, Bhutan, Burma, China, Nepal,
and
Pakistan.
The highest mountain in India is Kanchenjunga,
standing at 8,598m (28,209 ft), which it shares
with Nepal.
Kanchenjunga is the third highest mountain in the world.
Many different languages are spoken in India. The main ones are Hindi,
Bengali, Telugu, Marathi, Tamil, and Urdu.
The capital city is New Delhi, while the most
populated city is
Mumbai. Other major cities include Kolkata, Chennai
and Bangalore.
Because of India's location, it experiences periods of heavy rain
called Monsoon.
The Taj Mahal (a famous mausoleum and popular tourist attraction) is
located in the region of Agra.
India became an independent nation in 1947 after ending British rule
that began in 1858.
Mahatma Gandhi is famous for the important part he played
in gaining India's independence.
Once British rule was over, India was split into the
Republic of
India and the Islamic Republic of Pakistan. Later, an area
between India and
Pakistan became the People's Republic of Bangladesh.
The national symbol of India is the endangered Bengal Tiger.
The most popular sport in India is cricket, with the
Indian team
being the first to win the Cricket World Cup on home soil
when they were
victorious in 2011.
India hosted the 2010 Commonwealth Games in Delhi, but has never
hosted the Olympic Games.
Australia Facts
As of 2012,
Australia has an estimated population of over 22 million people.
Australia is
the world's 6th largest country by area.
Due to its
large size and isolation from the rest of the world, Australia is sometimes
known as the ‘island continent’.
The largest
cities in Australia are Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth and Adelaide.
A desert
area known as the ‘outback’ covers much of the land.
The name
‘Australia’ comes from the Latin word ‘australis’, meaning southern.
It is
estimated the humans have lived in Australia for around 45000 years.
The
indigenous people of Australia are Australian Aborigines and Torres Strait
Islanders.
The highest
mountain on mainland Australia is Mt Kosciuszko, standing 2228m (7310ft) above
sea level.
The world's
largest reef system, the Great Barrier Reef, is found off the north-eastern
coast of Australia.
Australia
has a range of different landscapes, including urban areas, mountain ranges,
deserts and rain forests.
Australia is
home to a variety of unique animals, including the koala, kangaroo, emu, kookaburra
and platypus.
Although
they usually keep to themselves, there are a range of
dangerous snakes
in
Australia, such as the Brown Snake, Tiger Snake and Taipan.
Australia
has over 750 different
reptile
species, more than any other country in the
world.
Australia is
a relatively wealthy country with a high life expectancy.
Australia hosted the 1956 (Melbourne) and 2000
(Sydney) Summer Olympics.
Brazil Facts
Brazil is the largest country in South America.
The name Brazil comes from a tree named brazilwood.
It is called Brasil in Portuguese, the official language spoken in
Brazil.
Brazil is the only country in South America that speaks Portuguese.
Portugal claimed the land of Brazil in the year 1500. Independence
was declared in 1822.
Brazil is the 5th largest country in the world by both
land area and population.
The population in 2012 was around 194 million people.
The capital city is Brasilia, while the largest city is Sao Paulo.
Other major cities include Rio de Janeiro, Salvador and Fortaleza.
In Brazil they drive on the right-hand side of the road.
Brazil has a large coastline on the eastern side of South America,
stretching 7491 kilometres (4655 miles)
in length.
Brazil shares a border with all South
American countries except for Chile and Ecuador.
Brazil covers 3 time zones.
Brazil has one of the largest
economies in the world.
Brazil is one of the 77 founding
members of the United Nations.
The
Amazon River
flows through Brazil, it is the 2nd
longest river in the world (after the
Nile ).
Around 60% of the
Amazon Rainforest
is located in Brazil.
The climate in the majority of Brazil is tropical.
Brazil is home to a wide range of animals, including armadillo,
tapirs, jaguars and pumas.
Human activities such as logging, mining fishing and
agriculture are
important to the Brazilian economy but are also a
serious threat to Brazil's
diverse environment.
Millions of tourists visit Brazil every year.
There are around 2500 airports in Brazil.
Football
(soccer) is the most popular
sport in Brazil with the national team
consistently among the best in
the world, winning the World Cup a record 5
times.
Canada Facts
In 2012 the population of Canada was around 35 million.
The capital city of Canada is Ottawa.
Major cities include Toronto,
Montreal, Vancouver, Edmonton and Calgary.
The 2 main languages spoken in Canada
are English and French.
Canada is the second largest country
in the world by total area (Russia is the largest).
Canada is made up of 10 provinces and
3 territories.
Canada features the longest coastline
in the world, stretching 202080 kilometres (125570 miles).
Canada shares the longest land border
in the world with the United States, totaling 8891 kilometres (5525 miles).
The name Canada comes from the word
‘kanata’ which
means ‘settlement’ or ‘village’ in the language of the
indigenous St
Lawrence Iroquoians.
Canada has over 30000 lakes.
Winters can be very cold in Canada
with temperatures dropping below −40 °C (−40 °F)
in some parts of the country.
Canada is rich in resources such as
zinc, nickel, lead and
gold .
The most popular sport in Canada is
ice hockey.
Calgary hosted the 1988 Winter
Olympics, Vancouver the 2010 Winter Olympics and Montreal the 1976 Summer
Olympics.
The maple leaf is a Canadian symbol and features prominently on the national flag.
China Facts
China
is officially known as the People's Republic of China.
China
has the largest population in the world, with over 1.3 billion people
(1,343,239,923) as of July 2012.
China
is the 3rd largest country by area at 9,706,961 sq km (3,747,879 sq miles).
China
belongs to the continent of Asia. Bordering
countries include Afghanistan, Bhutan,
Burma, India, Kazakhstan, North
Korea, Kyrgyzstan, Laos, Mongolia, Nepal,
Pakistan, Russia, Tajikistan, and Vietnam.
The summit of Mt Everest marks the border
between China and Nepal.
There
are many different languages spoken in China, including Mandarin, Yue, Wu, Minbei,
Minnan, Xiang, Gan and Hakka.
The
capital city is Beijing, while the most populated
city is Shanghai. Other major cities include Chongqing,
Shenzhen and
Guangzhou.
47% of the population live in urban areas.
China
experiences typhoons every year and also suffers from floods, tsunamis,
earthquakes and droughts.
China
has the fourth longest river in the world, the
Yangtze River, which reaches 5,797km (3,602
miles) in length. It also
has the sixth longest,
the Yellow River, stretching 4,667km (2,900
miles).
China
is the second largest economy in the world, after the United States of America.
In
2003, China became the third country to successfully send a person to space.
The
Great Wall of China is the largest man made
structure in the world, stretching
an incredible 8,850 kilometres
(5,500 miles).
The
famous Giant Panda is found near the Yangtze River in China.
China
hosted the 2008 Summer Olympic Games in Beijing.
Egypt Facts
Egypt
is officially known as the Arab Republic of Egypt.
In
2012, the population of Egypt was just over 83 million (83,688,164).
Egypt
is bordered by the Gaza Strip, Israel, Libya and Sudan
as well as the Mediterranean Sea and the Red Sea.
The Sinai Peninsula in Egypt spans across two
continents, Africa and Asia.
Mount Catherine is the highest mountain in
Egypt, standing 2,629m high (8625 ft).
The
official language of Egypt is Arabic, but others languages such as English and
French are also understood by many.
The
capital city is Cairo, which also has the largest population. Other major
cities include Alexandria and Giza.
Egypt
is a very dry country. The Sahara and Libyan Desert make up most of the area of
Egypt.
Egypt
experiences natural hazards such as droughts,
earthquakes, flash floods,
landslides, windstorms (called khamsin),
dust storms and sandstorms.
The
longest river in the world, the Nile, runs through Egypt.
Egypt
is famous for its ancient civilization, the Ancient Egyptians, who date back to
around 3150 B.C.
Egypt
is home the Great Pyramid of Giza, one of the Seven Wonders of the Ancient
World.
The
most popular sport in Egypt is football (soccer).
England Facts
England is the most populated country in the United Kingdom. The
other countries that make up the United Kingdom are Wales, Scotland and
Northern Ireland.
England is bordered by Wales to the west and Scotland to the
north.
The population of England in 2011 was around 53 million.
The capital city of England is London.
Other major cities include
Birmingham, Manchester, Sheffield,
Liverpool, Newcastle and Leeds.
England includes many small islands such as the Isle of Wight and
Hayling Island.
There is only a 34
kilometre (21 mile) gap between England and France and the countries are
connected by the Channel Tunnel which opened in 1994.
England was the first industrialized nation after the industrial revolution
that began around 1760.
Famous English scientists include Charles Darwin, Michael Faraday,
Isaac Newton and Stephen Hawking among many others.
The longest river in the United Kingdom
is the River Severn.
Located in England and Wales, it stretches around
354 kilometres (220 miles) in length.
The longest river found entirely in
England is the River Thames, it flows through London and is slightly
shorter
than the River Severn at around 346 kilometres (215 miles) in
length.
The largest
lake in England is named Windermere.
The highest
mountain in England is Scafell Pike, which stands at around 978 metres (3,209 ft) in height.
England has a large economy and uses
the pound sterling as its currency.
English computer scientist Tim
Berners-Lee is credited with inventing the World Wide Web.
There have been a number of
influential
English authors but perhaps the most well known is William
Shakespeare, who wrote classics such as Romeo and Juliet, Macbeth and
Hamlet.
Football (soccer) is the most popular
sport in England but others such as cricket and rugby have large followings.
The Summer Olympic Games have been
held in London 3 times, in 1908, 1948 and 2012.
The official London home of the British monarch (king
or queen) is Buckingham Palace.
France Facts
France
is officially known as the French Republic.
The
name France comes from the Latin word Francia, which means 'country of the
Franks'.
French
Guiana, Guadeloupe, Martinique, Mayotte, and Reunion are also recognized as a
part of France.
In 2012,
the population of mainland France was just
under 63 million (62,814,233). Another 2.8 million (2,816,459) are split
between French Guiana, Guadeloupe, Martinique, Mayotte and Reunion.
Mainland
France belongs to the continent of Europe. Bordering countries are Andorra, Belgium,
Germany, Italy, Luxembourg, Monaco, Spain, and Switzerland.
The Alps mountain range on the border of France
and
Italy is home to France’s highest mountain, Mont Blanc, which stands at
4,807m high (15,771
ft).
The
official language is French.
French
is the second most studied language in the
world after English.
The
capital city is Paris. Other major cities include Marseille, Lyon, Lille, and
Nice-Cannes.
France
is the most visited country in the world, with over 80 million visitors every year.
The
Louvre is the most visited art museum in the world. The famous Mona Lisa
painting is on display in this museum.
During
World War II, Allied forces landed on the
beaches of Normandy in northern
France. The first day of these landings
is called D-Day.
The
famous Eiffel Tower in Paris was built as the entrance point for the 1889 World
Fair. It is one of the most visited monuments in the world.
The
Millau Bridge in southern France is the world's
tallest bridge and France's
tallest structure. At its highest point, it
stands 343m (1125 ft) above the
ground.
France
was the second country to host the modern
Olympic Games in 1900 in Paris. Paris also hosted the games again in
1924. Three winter Olympics have been hosted in
France.
The
most famous road bicycle race in the world, the Tour de France zig zags through
the French landscape.
One
of the four grand slam tennis events, the French Open, is held in Paris
every year.
Louis Pasteur was a French scientist who made many discoveries in the fields of chemistry and microbiology.
Germany Facts
The name for Germany in the German language is Deutschland.
The population of Germany was around 82 million in 2010.
The capital of Germany is Berlin, it is also the largest city.
Other major cities include Munich, Hamburg, Cologne, Stuttgart and
Frankfurt.
Germany is a member of the European Union.
Germany has had an unsettled history,
including the Nazi regime
and tension between East and West Germany
(which were reunified in 1990).
Countries that border Germany include Belgium, the Netherlands,
Denmark, Austria, the Czech Republic, France, Luxembourg, Poland and
Switzerland.
Germany has the largest economy in Europe.
Large German companies include BMW, Adidas, SAP, Mercedes-Benz,
Nivea, Audi, Bayer, Volkswagen and Siemens.
Germany has a number of important natural resources, including
copper, nickel, natural gas, uranium and coal.
Germany is in the process of phasing out nuclear power plants.
There are many national parks in Germany
include the Bavarian
Forest National Park, Jasmund National Park, Harz
National Park, and the Wadden
Sea National Parks among others.
Over 100 Germans have been awarded the Nobel prize in their field,
including Albert Einstein, who was born in Germany.
Germany has been home to famous composers such as Johann Bach,
Ludwig van Beethoven and Richard Wagner.
The German coat of arms features a black eagle against a yellow
shield.
Football
(soccer) is the most popular sport in Germany.
Greece Facts
The official name of Greece is the Hellenic Republic.
Greece is located in southeast Europe, close to both Africa and
Asia.
In 2011 the population of Greece was around 11 million.
The capital and largest city in Greece is Athens. Other major
cities include Thessaloniki, Patras and Heraklion.
Around two thirds of the Greek population live in urban areas.
Greek is the official language spoken in Greece.
Greece is a member of the European Union and uses the Euro as its
currency.
Greece is a developed country with a high standard of
living.
Important industries include the service sector, agriculture
and tourism.
Greece is a popular tourist destination and home to over a dozen
World Heritage Sites.
Greece features thousands of islands, including destinations such
as Santorini and Mykonos.
Greece is one of the most mountainous countries in Europe.
The highest mountain in Greece is Mount Olympus, it has over 50
peaks with the highest reaching 2917
metres (9570 feet).
Ancient Greece is said to have laid the
foundation for Western
civilization, having a large influence on the
Roman Empire and European
culture.
The
Olympic Games originated in Ancient Greece.
Athens most recently hosted the
Summer Olympic Games in 2004.
Italy Facts
Italy is officially known as the Italian
Republic.
Vatican City and San Marino are very small
independent states located inside Italy.
Campione d'Italia is part of Italy but
located within the borders of Switzerland.
Italy belongs to the continent of Europe. Countries
that border Italy are Austria,
France , Vatican City, San Marino, and Switzerland.
Rome is the capital city of Italy. Other
major cities include Milan, Naples, Turin, and
Palermo.
Rome was the home to the Ancient Romans,
a civilization that grew
into a huge empire. Western civilization as
we know today is based on many Ancient
Roman principles.
Italy has many earthquakes and volcanoes
due to the conflict between
the Eurasian and the African tectonic
plates. The volcanoes Etna and Vesuvius
are a constant danger to humans
due to their closeness to big cities.
Over 61 million people live in Italy (61,261,254) as of 2012.
Italy was the birthplace of the
Renaissance, which was a period of
great cultural achievements in
poetry, painting and architecture. Famous
artists such as Michelangelo,
Raphael, Donatello, and Leonardo Da Vinci were
part of the
Renaissance.
Italian is the main language in Italy. German, French and Slovene
are also spoken in certain areas.
Ferrari, Lamborghini, Alfa Romeo and Maserati are well known Italian
car manufacturers.
The most popular sport in Italy is football (soccer). Italy has won
four world cups, the last one being in 2006.
Rome hosted the 1960 summer Olympic
Games, the only time it has been
held in Italy. The winter Olympics has
been held in Italy three times.
Italian cuisine is popular around the
world. Dishes such as
pizza, spaghetti bolognese, lasagne and risotto
all come from Italy.
Many famous scientists and mathematicians were born and raised in
Italy. Leonardo Da Vinci, Galileo Galilei, Alessandro Volta, and Fibonacci to name
just a few.
Italy has played a large role in the
history of architecture,
discovering important building techniques such
as the arch and the dome. Buildings
such as the Colosseum, Pantheon and the Leaning Tower of Pisa are examples of such
architecture.
Jamaica Facts
Jamaica is an island nation located in the Caribbean.
In 2012 the population of Jamaica was estimated to be around 2.9
million.
The capital and largest city in Jamaica is Kingston.
Jamaica was claimed by Spain after Christopher Columbus landed
there in 1494. It then came under English rule in 1655 before gaining
independence in 1962.
The longest mountain range in Jamaica is called the
Blue
Mountains. Blue Mountain Peak is the highest point on the island
at 2256 metres (7402 feet).
Jamaica has a tropical climate with
high temperatures and humid weather.
Jamaica is prone to damage caused by
hurricanes.
Jamaica has 8 native snake species,
but relax, none of them are venomous.
In Jamaica they drive on the left-hand side of the road.
The currency is the Jamaican dollar.
Jamaica exports agricultural products such as bananas, coffee and
sugar.
Languages spoken in Jamaica include Jamaican Patois and Jamaican
English.
Jamaica has a high level of crime.
Reggae music originated in Jamaica, home of well known musician
Bob Marley.
Over 1 million tourists visit Jamaica every year.
Jamaica
produces many talented
sportspeople, especially in track & field where
athletes such as
Usain Bolt, Johan Blake and Shelly-Ann Fraser-Pryce have
excelled.
Japan Facts
The Japanese name for Japan is “Nihon” or
“Nippon” which means “sun origin”.
Japan belongs to the continent of Asia. Japan
is an
island nation surrounded by the Sea of Japan to the East and the Pacific
Ocean to the West.
Japan is made up of 6,852 islands.
The highest point in Japan in Mount Fuji, which stands at 3,776m (12,388ft).
As of July 2012, there are over 127 million people
living in Japan
(127,368,088), which is the tenth largest population in
the world.
Tokyo is the capital city of Japan and also
the largest city. Other major cities include Osaka,
Nagoya, and Sapporo.
Japanese is the official language of Japan.
Japan sits along the “Pacific Ring of Fire”, so has many volcanoes
and experiences many earthquakes. In 2011, an earthquake of magnitude 9.0 hit
Japan and created a tsunami which resulted in much devastation.
Almost three quarters of Japan's land is
either forest or mountains
and is difficult to be made into farms,
industrial or residential areas.
Human life in Japan dates back thousands of years.
Ancient warriors of Japan were known as
Samurai. They were very skilled fighters and
swordsmen. Their main
weapon was the Katana, a sharp sword with a slight curve
to it.
Due to gases produced by power plants, Japan sometimes suffers from
acid rain.
Japan is an industrialized nation,
producing some of the most
technologically advanced motor vehicles,
electronics, and machine tools.
Japan is a world leader in robotics. Japanese engineers are known for
producing a range of human-like robots such as ASIMO.
Some of the most well-known companies in
the world are Japanese such
as Toyota, Honda, Sony, Nintendo, Canon,
Panasonic, Toshiba, and Sharp.
Japanese cuisine has become popular around the world. Some
well-known dishes are sushi, sashimi and tempura.
Japan is home to many different forms of martial arts. Karate, Judo, Sumo, Ninjutsu, Kendo, Jujutsu,
and Aikido to name a few.
Sumo is recognized as the national sport of Japan, although the most
popular spectator sport is baseball.
Japan hosted the 1940 and 1964 Summer
Olympic games, both times in
Tokyo. They also hosted the 1940, 1972 and
1998 Winter Olympic Games.
Kenya Facts
Kenya is located in East Africa, on the equator.
In 2012, the population of Kenya was estimated to be around 43
million.
Kenya is officially known as the Republic of Kenya.
The capital and largest city is Nairobi. Mombasa is the second
largest city.
The two official languages in Kenya are English and
Swahili,
although there are dozens of other languages spoken in various
parts of the
country.
Kenya shares Lake Victoria, the world's second largest fresh water
lake, with Tanzania and Uganda.
Kenya features many national parks and wildlife reserves, with
safaris being a popular activity for visitors.
Agriculture is important to Kenya's economy, especially tea,
coffee and flowers.
Large animals such as lions, buffalo, leopards, elephants and rhinoceros
are present in Kenya.
In Kenya they drive on the left-hand side of the road.
Kenya is named after Mt Kenya, the tallest mountain in the country
(5,199 metres,
17,057 feet).
Kenya gained independence from the
United Kingdom in 1963.
Hydroelectricity is the largest
contributor to Kenya's electricity supply.
Kenya is a developing country and
half of the population live in poverty.
In terms of sports, Kenya is perhaps
best known
for its middle distance and long distance runners, with the
country frequently
producing Olympic champions.
Mexico Facts
The official name of for Mexico is the United Mexican States.
Mexico is the 11th most populated country in the world
with around 117 million people (as of July 2012).
Mexico is the 14th largest country by land area.
There are 31 states in Mexico as well as the capital city (Mexico
City).
Mexico is home to over 30 UNESCO World Heritage Sites and is a
popular tourist destination.
Stone tools have been found in Mexico that suggest the existence
of humans there around 23000 years ago.
The highest mountain in Mexico is Pico de Orizaba, a dormant volcano
that reaches 5,636 metres
(18,491 ft) above sea level.
The national symbol of Mexico is the
golden eagle which features prominently on the coat of arms.
The main language spoken in Mexico is
Spanish.
The largest source of immigration to the
United States is from Mexico.
Mexican food is known for its range
of flavors and spices. Popular dishes include tacos, burritos and enchiladas.
The most popular sport in Mexico is
football (soccer).
Mexico hosted the Football World Cup in both 1970 and 1986.
Mexico City hosted the Summer Olympic Games in 1968.
Netherlands Facts
The Netherlands is also known as Holland.
The capital and largest city in the Netherlands is Amsterdam.
Other major cities include Rotterdam, the Hague, Eindhoven and
Utrecht.
Around 20% of the Netherlands is located below sea level.
The Netherlands border Belgium and
Germany .
The population of the Netherlands in 2013 was estimated to be
around 17 million.
The main language in the Netherlands is Dutch.
The majority of Dutch people can speak more than one language.
The Netherlands is part of the European Union and uses the Euro as
its currency.
The Netherlands also includes islands in the Caribbean named
Bonaire, Sint Eustatius and Saba.
There are around 20 national parks in the Netherlands.
The Netherlands is a developed nation with strong exports in a
number of industries.
Many of the world's tomatoes, cucumbers and flowers are exported
from the Netherlands.
The Netherlands is a tolerant country with liberal policies.
Dutch drivers use the right-hand side of the road.
Vincent van Gogh is perhaps the most famous Dutch painter.
Dutch
people enjoy a range of sports including football (soccer), swimming,
volleyball, golf, tennis and hockey.
New Zealand Facts
New Zealand is located in the
south-western Pacific Ocean and
features two main islands, the North
Island and the South Island, as well as
other smaller ones.
Other smaller islands include Stewart
Island, Waiheke Island,
Chatham Island, Great Barrier Island and more,
although many are uninhabited.
The capital city of New Zealand is Wellington while the largest
city is Auckland.
Other major cities include Christchurch, Hamilton and Dunedin.
The population of New Zealand was
estimated to be around 4.5 million at the start of 2013.
The official spoken languages of New Zealand are English and te
reo Maori, with English being the most widely used.
Maori are the indigenous Polynesian people of New Zealand.
The Maori name for New Zealand is Aotearoa.
The Treaty of Waitangi was signed in 1840 between the British and
Maori, making New Zealand a colony of the British Empire.
In 1893 New Zealand became the first country in the world to give
all women the right to vote.
Due to its isolation, New Zealand has developed unique animal and
plant life.
The bird species of New Zealand are particularly diverse,
including alpine parrots and ground dwelling Kiwis.
The term ‘Kiwi’ is also used as a nickname for a New Zealander.
The Lord of the Rings movies were filmed in New Zealand.
In New Zealand they drive on the left-hand side of the road.
Located in the South Island, the highest
mountain in New Zealand
is Aoraki Mount Cook which reaches 3,754
metres (12,316 ft) in height.
Dairy products are New Zealand’s highest
earning exports.
Rugby is the most popular spectator
sport in New
Zealand but a variety of sports such as football (soccer),
cricket, netball,
golf and others are popular among participants.
Russia Facts
The official name for Russia is the Russian Federation.
Russia shares borders with many countries, including China,
Ukraine, North Korea and Norway.
In terms of land area, Russia is the largest country in the world.
Russia is located across 9 time zones.
At the beginning of 2013, Russia was estimated to have a
population of around 143 million.
Russian is the official language of
Russia but there are many other languages used in various parts of the country.
The capital and largest city in
Russia is Moscow.
Other major cities in Russia include Saint Petersburg,
Yekaterinburg
and Novosibirsk.
Russians drive on the right-hand side
of the road.
The currency used in Russia is the
ruble.
Russia has a wide range of natural resources and is one of the
world’s largest producers of oil.
The world’s first satellite, named
Sputnik, was launched by the Soviet Union in 1957.
The Soviet Union (USSR) was a
socialist state that
occupied much of northern Asia and eastern Europe from
1922 until it
was dissolved in 1991. Former Soviet states include Lithuania,
Georgia,
Latvia, Ukraine, Kazakhstan and others.
The official residence of the Russian president is the Kremlin in
Moscow. The name Kremlin means fortress.
Russia is one of 5 permanent members of the UN Security Council,
along with the US, UK, China and France.
Russia has over 40 national parks and 100 wildlife reserves.
Lake Baikal is the largest freshwater lake in the
world. It
reaches 1642 metres
(5,387 feet) in depth and contains
around 20% of the world’s unfrozen
fresh water.
Mount Elbrus is the highest mountain in Russia (and Europe), it reaches
a height of 5642 metres
(18,510 feet).
Russia’s Volga River is the longest
in Europe, with a length of around 3690 kilometres (2293 miles).
Russia has the world’s largest area
of forests.
Russia produces a large amount of
renewable energy thanks to its well developed hydropower stations.
Moscow hosted the 1980 Summer Olympic
Games.
Basketball, ice hockey and football (soccer) are
popular sports in Russia.
Scotland Facts
Scotland is located in Europe, at the northern end of Great
Britain.
Scotland is a part on the United Kingdom, along with England,
Wales and Northern Ireland.
Scotland shares a border with England.
Scotland includes over 700 islands. These include groups called
Orkney, Shetland and the Hebrides.
The population of Scotland in 2011 was around 5.3 million.
The capital of Scotland is Edinburgh while the largest city is
Glasgow. Other major cities include Aberdeen and Dundee.
Aberdeen has become an important centre for the oil industry after
the finding of oil in the North Sea.
The highest mountain in Scotland is Ben Nevis which stands at a
height of 1344 metres
(4409 feet).
The Scottish Highlands are a mountainous region of Scotland with
historical importance and a low population density.
Most major cities are located in the Scottish Lowlands.
A variety of wildlife can be found in Scotland, including seals,
mountain hare, ptarmigan, stoats and the golden eagle.
Scotland has over 300 railway stations.
Scottish drivers use the left-hand side of the road.
Scotland has a unique culture with traditions such as bagpipes,
kilts and highland dancing.
In 1872, Scotland played England in the first international game
of football (soccer). The result was a 0-0 draw.
The
thistle is a national symbol of Scotland.
South Africa
The official name of South Africa is the Republic of South Africa.
South Africa is located at the southern end of Africa.
In 2011 the population of South Africa was around 52 million.
South Africa has three capital cities, Cape Town, Bloemfontein and
Pretoria.
The largest city in South Africa is Johannesburg. Other major
cities include Soweto and Durban.
South Africa has 11 official languages, including Zulu, Afrikaans,
Xhosa and English.
South Africa has the largest economy of any African country.
South Africa has had an unsettled
history, with apartheid policies
made by the National Party enforcing a
system of segregation from 1948 until
1994. Nelson Mandela was elected
president in 1994 after South Africa’s first
universal elections.
South Africa's coastline stretches over 2500 kilometres (1553 miles) in length.
South Africa is home to a wide
variety of animals including giraffes, hippopotamus, leopards and lions.
Conservation is an important issue in
South Africa. It has lost many natural habitats due to deforestation and overpopulation.
South Africa is a member of the
United Nations.
South Africa has high unemployment.
The first human heart transplant was
performed in a Cape Town hospital in 1967.
Cave paintings have been found in
South Africa that date to around 75000 years ago.
Drivers use the left-hand side of the road in South Africa.
The most popular sports in South
Africa are football (soccer), rugby and cricket.
In 2010 South Africa hosted the FIFA World Cup.
Spain Facts
The Spanish name for Spain is España.
The Spanish language is spoken in many areas of the world due to
the early influence of the Spanish Empire.
Spain is located in Europe.
It is a developed country with a high quality of life.
The largest city and capital of Spain is Madrid.
The second largest city is Barcelona, which is located in
Catalonia.
The population of Spain in 2012 was around 47 million.
The currency used in Spain is the Euro.
In Spain they drive on the right-hand side of the road.
It is believed that modern
humans first arrived in Spain around 32000 years ago.
Mount Teide is the highest mountain in Spain (3718 m, 12198 ft) and an
active volcano.
The Pyrenees is a mountain range that
divides Spain and France.
Spain includes a number of islands
including Mallorca, Tenerife,
Ibiza and Gran Canaria. Many can be found
in the Canary Islands, an archipelago
off the northwest coast of
Africa.
The Spanish tourism industry is one of the largest in the world,
bringing in billions of Euros into the Spanish economy.
Spain produces a large amount of renewable energy, including wind
power and solar power.
Spain has a variety of foods and unique
dishes such as paella (a
type of rice dish) and tapas (a range of small
snacks or appetizers).
Football (soccer) is the most popular sport in Spain.
The
1992 Summer Olympic Games were held in Barcelona.
United States Facts
The United States of America is also called the USA, US, United
States or sometimes America.
On July 4, 1776, the Declaration of Independence was issued,
establishing the United States of America.
The US is the 4th largest country in the world by land
area and 3rd by population.
On February 25, 2013, the estimated population of the US was
315,568,000.
The US is a diverse country with a multicultural society.
The US has the world's largest economy.
The US developed the first nuclear
weapons, using them on the
Japanese cities of Hiroshima and Nagasaki
near the end of World War 2.
The Mississippi and Missouri Rivers combine to form the longest
river system in the US and the fourth longest in the world.
The tallest mountain the US is Mt McKinley, located in the state
of Alaska it reaches 20,320 ft
(6,194 m) above sea level.
Alaska was purchased from Russia in 1867 and is the largest state
in the US by land area.
Hawaii is the most recent of the 50 states in the US (joining in
1959) and is the only one made up entirely of islands.
Most of the world's tornadoes occur in the Midwest region of the
US known as Tornado Alley.
The most populated city in the US is New York City, followed by
Los Angeles and Chicago.
English is the most commonly spoken language in the US, followed
by Spanish.
The first man to walk on the moon was American Neil Armstrong
(July 21, 1969).
The US was the leading force behind the development of the
Internet.
The US consumes more petroleum than any other country in the
world.
The
most popular team sports in the US are American football, baseball, basketball and
ice hockey.
Posted by
Bajaho
at
11:01 AM
No comments:
Labels:
Indian railways
Friday, April 9, 2010
National Highways in India
National Highways
India has a huge network of national highways. The national highways
have a total length of 70,548 kms. Indian highways cover 2% of the total
road network of India and carry 40% of the total traffic. The entire
highway network of India is managed by the National Highway Authority of
India which is responsible for development and maintenance of highways.
The longest highway in India is NH7 which stretches from Varansi in Uttar Pradesh
to Kanyakumari in the southern most point of Indian mainland. The
shortest highway is NH47A which stretches from Ernakulam to Kochi and
covers total length of 4 Kms.
Andhra Pradesh
S.No.
NH No.
Route
Length in the State
1
5
Junction with National Highways No. 6 near Baharagora-Cuttack-Bhubaneshwar-Vishakhapatnam -Vijayawada-Chennai
1,000 km (620 mi)
2
7
Varanasi-Mangawan-Salem-Dindigul-Madurai-Cape-Commorin(Kanyakumari)
754 km (469 mi)
3
9
Pune-Sholapur-Hyderabad-Vijayawada-Machilipatnam
430 km (270 mi)
4
16
Nizamabad - Armoor - Jagtial -- Mancherial - Chinnur up to Maharashtra Border
220 km (140 mi)
5
18
Kurnool - Nandyal - Allagadda - Mydukur - Cuddapah - Rayachoti - Pileru- Chittoor
369 km (229 mi)
6
43
From Orissa Border - Salur - Ramabhadrapuram - Vizianagaram and terminating at NH 5 near Natavalasa Junction proceeding towards Srikakulam and near Rajapulova Junction proceeding towards Visakhapatnam
83 km (52 mi)
7
63
From Karnataka Border - Guntakal - Gooty
62 km (39 mi)
8
163
Hyderabad - Warangal - Venkatapuram up to Chhattisgarh Border
244 km (152 mi)
9
205
Anantapur - Kadiri - Madanapalle - Vayalpadu - Pileru - Tirupati - Renigunta - Puttur - Nagari up to Tamil Nadu Border
360 km (220 mi)
10
214
The highway starting from the junction of NH 5 near Kathipudi - Pithapuram - Kakinada - Yanam - Amalapuram - Razole - Palakollu - Bhimavaram - Mudinepalli-Gudivada -and terminating at NH 9 near Pamarru
270 km (170 mi)
11
214A
The highway starting from the junction of NH 214 near Digamarru connecting Narsapuram - Machilipatnam - Challapalli - Avanigadda - Repalle - Bapatla - Chirala and terminating at NH 5 near Ongole
255 km (158 mi)
12
219
Madanapalle - Punganuru - Palmaner - Kuppam up to Tamil Nadu Border
128 km (80 mi)
13
221
The Highway starting from the junction of NH9 near Ibrahimpatnam connecting Kondapalli - Mylavaram - Cheemalapadu - Tiruvuru - Penuballi - Kothagudem - Paloncha - Bhadrachalam - Nellipaka - Chinturu - Konta up to Chhattisgarh border
155 km (96 mi)
14
222
From Maharashtra border to - Bhainsa - junction with NH7 near Nirmal
60 km (37 mi)
15
234
From Karnataka border to - Venkatagirikota - Pernampattu - up to Tamil Nadu Border
23 km (14 mi)
16
4
From Karnataka border to - Palamaner - Chittoor - up to Tamil Nadu Border
83 km (52 mi)
-
-
Total
4,496 km (2,794 mi)
Arunachal Pradesh
S.No.
NH No.
Route
Length
1
52
From Assam Border - Pasighat - Dambuk - Roing - Paya - Tezu - Wakro - Namsai up to Assam Border
310 km (190 mi)
2
52A
From Assam Border - Itanagar up to Assam border
42 km (26 mi)
3
153
From Assam Border - Myanmar border
40 km (25 mi)
4
229
Tawang - Pasighat
1,090 km (680 mi)
-
-
Total
1,482 km (921 mi)
Assam
S.No.
NH No.
Route
Length (km.)
1
31
From W.B. Border - Gouripur - North Salmara - Bijni - Amingaon, Junction with NH 37
322 km (200 mi)
2
31B
North Salmara - Junction with NH 37 near Jogighopa
19 km (12 mi)
3
31C
From W.B. Border - Kochgaon - Sidli Jn. With NH 31 near Bijni
93 km (58 mi)
4
36
Nagaon - Dabaka - Amlakhi - Nagaland Border
167 km (104 mi)
5
37
Junction with NH 31B near Goalpara - Paikan - Guwahati - Dispur - Nowgaon - Numaligarh - Jorhat - Jhanzi - Dibrugarh - Tinsukia - Makum - Saikhoaghat
680 km (420 mi)
6
37A
Kuwarital – Junction with NH 52 near Tezpur
23 km (14 mi)
7
38
Makum - Ledo - Lekhapani
54 km (34 mi)
8
39
Numaligarh - Naojan - Bokajan up to Nagaland Border
115 km (71 mi)
9
44
From Meghalaya Border - Badarpur - Karimganj - Patharkandi up to Tripura Border
111 km (69 mi)
10
51
Paikan up to Meghalaya Border
22 km (14 mi)
11
52
Baihata - Charali - Mangaldai - Dhekiajuli - Tezpur - Gohpur - Banderdewa - North Lakhimpur - Dhemaji - Kulajan - Arunachal Border - Junction with NH No.37 near Saikhoaghat
540 km (340 mi)
12
52A
Gohpur - A.P. Border - Banderdewa
15 km (9.3 mi)
13
52B
Kulajan - Dibrugarh
31 km (19 mi)
14
53
Junction with NH 44 near Badarpur - Silchar - Lakhipur up to Manipur Border.
100 km (62 mi)
15
54
Dabaka - Lumding - Langting - Hablong - Silchar - Dwarband up to Mizoram Border
338 km (210 mi)
16
61
Jhanzi - Amguri - Nagaland border
20 km (12 mi)
17
62
Dudhnai - Damara up to Meghalaya Border
5 km (3.1 mi)
18
151
Karimganj - Bangladesh Border
14 km (8.7 mi)
19
152
Patacharkuchi - Hajua - Bhutan Border
40 km (25 mi)
20
153
Ledo - Lekhapani - Arunachal Pradesh Border
20 km (12 mi)
21
154
Dhaleshwar (Badarpur) - Bairabi - Mizoram Border
110 km (68 mi)
-
-
Total
2,836 km (1,762 mi)
Bihar
NH
Route inside Bihar
Complete Route
Length in State (km)
Total Length
2
Uttar Pradesh border – Mohania – Kudra – Sasaram – Dehri – Aurangabad – Madanpur – Dobhi – Barachati – Jharkhand border
Delhi – Mathura – Agra – Kanpur – Allahabad – Varanasi – Mohania – Barhi – Palsit – Baidyabati – Calcutta
Delhi (12), Haryana (74), Uttar Pradesh (752), Bihar (202), Jharkhand (190), West Bengal (235)
1465
19
Uttar Pradesh border – Manjhi – Chhapra – Sonpur – Hajipur – Patna
Ghazipur – Balia – Manjhi – Chhapra – Sonpur – Hajipur – Patna
Bihar (120), Uttar Pradesh (120)
240
28
Junction with NH 31 – Barauni – Bachwara – Tajpur – Muzaffarpur – Mehsi – Chakia – Gopalganj – Uttar Pradesh border
Junction with NH 31 – Barauni – Muzaffarpur – Pipra – Kothi – Gorakhpur – Lucknow
Bihar (259), Uttar Pradesh (311)
570
28A
Junction with NH 28 – Pipra – Kothi – Sagauli – Raxaul – Indo-Nepal Border
Junction with NH 28 – Pipra – Kothi – Sagauli – Raxauli – Indo-Nepal border
Bihar (68)
68
28B
Chapra – Bettiah – Lauriya – Bagaha – Chhitauni – Uttar Pradesh Border
Chapra – Bettiah – Lauriya – Bagaha – Chhitauni – Uttar Pradesh border
Bihar (121)
30
Junction with 2 – Mohania – Kochas – Dinara – Bikramganj – Arrah – Danapur – Patna – Fatuha – Bakhtiarpur
Junction with NH 2 – Mohania – Arrah – Patna – Bakhtiarpur
Bihar (230)
230
30A
Fatuha – Chandi – Harnaut – Barh
Fatuha – Chandi – Harnaut – Barh
Bihar (65)
65
31
Jharkhand border – Rajauli – Nawada – Bihar Sharif – Bakhtiarpur – Barh – Mokameh – Barauni – Begusarai – Balia – Khagaria – Bihpur – Kursela – Purnia – Baisi –
West Bengal
– Kishanganj –
West Bengal
border
Junction with NH 2 – Barhi – Bakhtiarpur – Mokameh – Purnea – Dalkola – Siliguri – Sevok – Cooch Behar – North Salmara – Nalbari – Charali – Amingaon Junction with NH 37
Bihar (393), West Bengal (366), Assam (322), Jharkhand (44)
1125
57
Muzaffarpur – Darbhanga – Jhanjharpur – Narahia – Narpatganj – Forbesganj – Araria – Purnia
Muzaffarpur – Darbhanga – Jhanjharpur – Narahia – Narpatganj – Forbesganj – Araria – Purnia
Bihar (310)
310
57A
Junction with 57 – Forbesganj – Jogbani
Junction with NH 57 – Forbesganj – Jogbani
Bihar (15)
15
77
Hajipur – Muzaffarpur – Sitamarhi – Sonbarsa
Hajipur – Muzaffarpur – Sitamarhi – Sonbarsa
Bihar (142)
142
80
Mokamah – Luckeesarai – Munger – Bhagalpur – Kahalgaon – Jharkhand border
Mokamah – Luckeesarai – Munger – Bhagalpur – Kahalgaon – Rajmahal – Farrakka
Bihar (200), Jharkhand (100), West Bengal (10)
310
81
Kora – Katihar – Malda – West Bengal border
Kora – Katihar – Malda – West Bengal Border
Bihar (45), West Bengal (55)
100
82
Gaya – Hisua — Rajgir – Bar Bigha – Bihar Sharif – Mokameh
Gaya – Hisua — Rajgir – Bar Bigha- Bihar Sharif – Mokameh
Bihar (130)
130
83
Patna – Jehanabad – Bela – Gaya – Bodhgaya – Dobhi
Patna – Jehanabad – Bela – Gaya – Bodhgaya – Dobhi
Bihar (130)
130
84
Arrah – Buxar
Arrah – Buxar
Bihar (60)
60
85
Chhapra – Ekma – Siwan – Gopalganj
Chhapra – Ekma – Siwan – Gopalganj
Bihar (95)
95
98
Patna – Arwal – Daudnagar – Aurangabad – Rajhara – Amba – Jharkhand border
Patna – Arwal – Daudnagar – Aurangabad – Rajhara – Amba – Jharkhand border
Bihar (156), Jharkhand (51)
207
101
Chhapra – Baniapur – Mohammadpur
Chhapra – Baniapur – Mohamadpur
Bihar (60)
60
102
Chhapra – Rewaghat – Muzaffarpur
Chhapra – Rewaghat – Muzaffarpur
Bihar (80)
80
103
Hajipur – Hazrat Jandaha – Mushrigharari
Hajipur – Hazrat Jandaha – Mushrigharari
Bihar (55)
55
104
Chakia – Madhubani – Jaynagar – Shivhar – Sitamarhi – Sursand – Jaynagar – Narahia
Chakia – Madhubani – Jaynagar – Shivhar – Sitamarhi – Sursand – Jaynagar – Narahia
Bihar (160)
160
105
Darbhanga – Aunsi – Jaynagar
Darbhanga – Aunsi – Jaynagar
Bihar (66)
66
106
Birpur – Pipra – Madhepura – Kishanganj – Bihpur
Birpur – Pipra – Madhepura – Kishanganj – Bihpur
Bihar (130)
130
107
Maheshkhunt – Sonbarsa Raj – Simri-Bakhtiarpur – Bariahi – Saharsa –Madhepura – Banmankhi – Purnia
Maheshkhunt – Sonbarsa Raj – Simri Bakhtiarur – Bariahi – Saharsa – Madhepura – Banmankhi – Purnia
Bihar (145)
145
110
Junction with NH 98 – Arwal – Jehanabad – Bandhuganj – Kako – Ekangarsarai – Bihar Sharif – Junction with
Junction with NH 98 – Arwal – Jehanabad – Bandhuganj – Kako – Ekangarsarai – Biharsharif – Junction with NH 31
Bihar (89)
89
Chandigarh
S.No.
NH No.
Route
Length (km.)
1
21
Starting from Punjab Mohali Town Border – Chandigarh up to Haryana Border (Ambala District)
24 km (15 mi)
Chhattisgarh
S.No.
NH No.
Route
Length (km.)
1
53
From Maharashtra Border - Baghnadi - Chichola - Rajnandgaon - Durg - Bhilai - Raipur - Arang - Pithora - Basna - Saraipali - up to Orissa Border
314 km (195 mi)
2
12A
From M.P. Border - Chilpi - Kawardha - Pipariya - Bemetara - Simga
128 km (80 mi)
3
16
From Maharashtra Border - Bhopalpatnam - Bijapur - Bhairamgarh - Gidam - Jagdalpur
210 km (130 mi)
4
30
Raipur - Deori - Dhamtari - Charama - Kanker - Keskal - Pharasgaon - Kondagaon - Jagdalpur up to Orissa Border
316 km (196 mi)
5
78
From M.P. Border - Mahendragarh - Baikunthpur - Surajpur - Ambikapur - Kunkuri - Pathalgaon - Raikera - Jashpurnagar - Rupsera - Jharkhand Border
356 km (221 mi)
6
111
Bilaspur - Ratanpur - Katghore - Kendai - Surajpur
200 km (120 mi)
7
200
Raipur - Simga - Baitalpur - Bilaspur - Ramgarh - Champa - Sakti - Uravmiti - Raigarh up to Orissa Border
300 km (190 mi)
8
202
Bhopalpatnam - Bhadrakali - Kotturu up to A.P. Border
36 km (22 mi)
9
216
Raigarh - Sarangarh - Saraipali
80 km (50 mi)
10
217
Raipur - Mahasamund - Suarmar-Kunkuri-Jashpur up to Orissa Border
70 km (43 mi)
11
221
From A.P. Border Konta - Sukma - Kukanar - Darba - Sosanpal - Terminating junction with NH16 near Jagadalpur
280 km (170 mi)
- - Total
2,290 km (1,420 mi)
Delhi
S.No.
NH No.
Route
Length (km.)
1
1
Outer Ring Road/ Transport Nagar - Haryana Border
22 km (14 mi)
2
2
NH2/Ring Road - Delhi Capital - Haryana Border
12 km (7.5 mi)
3
2
From Delhi to Faridabad
4.4 km (2.7 mi)
4
8
Ring Road –Haryana Border
13 km (8.1 mi)
5
10
Outer Ring Road - Mundka - Haryana Border
18 km (11 mi)
6
24
Nizamuddin Road - U.P.border.
7 km (4.3 mi)
-
-
Total
76.4 km (47.5 mi)
Goa
S.No.
NH No.
Route
Length (km.)
1
4A
From Karnataka Border - Darbandora - Ponda - Bhoma - Banastari - Panaji
171 km (106 mi)
2
17
From Maharashtra Border - Pernem - Mapuca - Panaji - Cortalim - Verna - Margao - Cuncolim - Chauri (Chauri) - Polem up to Karnataka Border
139 km (86 mi)
3
17A
Cortalim (Kortali) - Sancoale - Chicalim - Murmugao
19 km (12 mi)
4
17B
Ponda - Verna - Vasco da Gama
40 km (25 mi)
Gujrat
S.No.
NH No.
Route
Length (km.)
1
NE-1
Ahmedabad - Vadodara Expressway
93 km (58 mi)
2
6
Hajira - Surat - Bardoli - Vyara - Songadh up to Maharashtra Border
177 km (110 mi)
3
8
From Rajasthan Border - Himatnagar - Ahmadabad - Anand - Vadodara - KarjanBharuch - Ankleshwar - Chalthan (Surat) - Navsari - Valsad - Vapi - Maharashtra Border
498 km (309 mi)
4
8A
Ahmedabad - Bagodra - Limbdi - Bamanbore - Morbi - Samakhiali - Kandla – Mandvi - Vikhadi - Kothara - Naliya up to Narayan Sarovar
618 km (384 mi)
5
8B
Bamanbore - Rajkot - Gondal - Jetpur - Dhoraji - Kutiyana - Porbandar
206 km (128 mi)
6
8C
Chiloda - Gandhinagar - Sarkhej
46 km (29 mi)
7
8D
Jetpur - Junagadh - Maliya - Somnath
127 km (79 mi)
8
8E
Dwarka - Porbandar - Navibabder - Somnath - Kodinar - Una - Mahuva - Talaja - Bhavnagar
445 km (277 mi)
9
14
From Rajasthan Border - Palanpur - Deesa - Sihori - Radhanpur
140 km (87 mi)
10
15
Samakhiali - Santalpur - Radhanpur - Bhaghar - Tharad up to Rajasthan Border
270 km (170 mi)
11
59
Ahmedabad - Kathua - Godhra - Dahod up to M.P. Border
211 km (131 mi)
12
113
Dahod - Limdi - Zalod - Rajasthan Border.
40 km (25 mi)
13
228
Dandi heritage route
Sabarmati Ashram - Aslali - Navagam - Matar - - Anand - Borsad - Kankapura - Kareli - Ankhi - Amod - Derol - Ankleshwar - Mangrol - Umrachi - Bhatgam - Delad - Surat - Vanjh - Navsari - Kardi - Dandi
374 km (232 mi)
-
-
Total
3,245 km (2,016 mi)
Himachal Pradesh
S.No.
NH No.
Route
Length (km.)
1
1A
From Punjab Border - Kathua - Samba - Jammu - Nagrota - Udhampur - Batot - Ramban - Khanabal - Awantipora - Pampore - Srinagar - Pattan - Baramula - Uri
541 km (336 mi)
2
National Highway 154 (India)154
Pathankot - Mandi
220 km (140 mi)
3
21
Chandigarh - Ropar - Mandi - Kullu - Manali
323 km (201 mi)
4
21A
Pinjore - Swarghat
65 km (40 mi)
5
22
Ambala - Shimla - Khab
459 kilometres (290 mi)
6
70
Jalandhar - Mandi
170 km (110 mi)
7
72
Ambala - Nahan - Haridwar
200 km (120 mi)
8
73A
Yamuna Nagar - Paonta Sahib
62 km (39 mi)
9
88
Kangra - Shimla
224 km (139 mi)
Jammu and Kashmir
S.No.
NH No.
Route
Length (km.)
1
1A
From Punjab Border - Kathua - Samba - Jammu - Nagrota - Udhampur - Batot - Ramban - Khanabal - Awantipora - Pampore - Srinagar - Pattan - Baramula - Uri
541 km (336 mi)
2
1B
Batote - Doda - Kistwar - Symthanpass - Khanabal
274 km (170 mi)
3
1C
Domel - Katra
8 km (5.0 mi)
4
1D
Srinagar - Kargil - Leh
422 km (262 mi)
Jammu and Kashmir
Sign
Name
Route
Lanes
Length
Remarks
Karakoram Highway
Hasan Abdal to Khunjerab Pass
2 Lanes
806 km
S-1(in Pakistan)
Extends from Gilgit to Skardu
167 km
S-2(in Pakistan)
Extends from Kohala to Muzaffarabad
40 km
S-3(in Pakistan)
Extends from Muzaffarabad to Chakothi
55 km
Jharkhand
S.No.
NH No.
Route
Length (km.)
1
2
From Bihar Border - Chauparan - Barhi - Barakatha - Bagodar - Dumri - Topchanchi - Gobindpur - Nirsa - Maithan Dam up to West Bengal Border
190 km (120 mi)
2
6
From Orissa Border - Baharagora up to W.B. Border
22 km (14 mi)
3
23
Chas(Bokaro Steel City) - Gola - Ramgarh - Ranchi - Bero - Sisai - Gumla - Palkot - Kolebira - Simdega - Orissa Border
250 km (160 mi)
4
31
Jn. with NH2 near Barhi - Kodarama up to Bihar border
44 km (27 mi)
5
32
Junction with NH2 near Govindpur - Dhanbad - Chas(Bokaro Steel City) - West Bengal Border - Chandil - Jamshedpur
107 km (66 mi)
6
33
Junction with NH2 near Barhi - Hazaribag - Ramgarh - Ranchi - Bundu - Chandil - Jamshedpur- Mahulia - Junction with NH6 near Baharagora
352 km (219 mi)
7
75
From UP Border - Nagar untari - Garhwa - Daltonganj - Latehar - Chandwa - Kuru - Mandar - Ranchi - Khunti - Band Gaon - Chakradharpur - Chaibasa - Jainitgarh up to Orissa Border.
447 km (278 mi)
8
78
From Chhattisgarh Border - Silam - Gumla
25 km (16 mi)
91
80
From Bihar Border - Sahibganj - Talihari - Rajmahal - Barharwa up to West Bengal Border
100 km (62 mi)
10
98
From Bihar Border - Hariharganj - Chhatarpur terminating near Rajhara at NH75
50 km (31 mi)
11
99
Chandwa - Balumath - Chatra - Hunterganj up to Bihar Border
156 km (97 mi)
12
100
Chatra - Tutilawa - Hazaribagh - Meru - Daru-Kharika - Bagodar
118 km (73 mi)
Karnataka
S.No.
NH No.
Route
Length (km.)
1
4
From Maharashtra border - Nippani - Sankeshwar - Belgaum - Dharwad - Hubli - Haveri - Ranebennur - HariharDavangere - Chitradurga - Sira - Tumkur - Nelamangala - Bangalore - Hoskote - Kolar - Mulbagal - Up to Andhra Pradesh border
700 km (430 mi)
2
4A
Belgaum - Khanapur - Gunji - Up to Goa border
82 km (51 mi)
3
7
From Andhra Pradesh border - Chik Ballapur - Devanahalli - Bangalore-Electronics City - Chandapura - Attibele - Up to Tamil Nadu border
125 km (78 mi)
4
9
From Maharashtra border - Rajeshwar - Homnabad - Mangalgi - Up to Andhra Pradesh border.
75 km (47 mi)
5
13
From Maharashtra border - Horti - Bijapur - Hungund - Kushtagi - Hospet - Jagalur - Chitradurga - Holalkere - Bhadravati - Shimoga - Tirthahalli - Karkal - Mangalore
719 km (447 mi)
6
17
From Goa border - Karwar - Ankola - Kumta - Honavar - Bhatkal - Kundapura - Udupi - Surathkal-Mangalore - Talapady - Up to Kerala border.
300 km (190 mi)
7
75
Nelamangala - Kunigal - Channarayapatna - Hassan - Alur - Sakleshpur - Uppinangadi - Mangalore
328 km (204 mi)
8
63
Ankola - Yellapur - Kalghatgi - Hubli - Gadag - Koppal - Hospet - Bellary up to Andhra Pradesh border
370 km (230 mi)
9
67
Gundlupet - Bandipur up to Tamil Nadu border
50 km (31 mi)
10
206
Tumkur - Tiptur - Arsikere - Kadur - Bhadravati - Shimoga - Sagara - Honavar and terminating at its junction with NH No.17 in Honavar.
363 km (226 mi)
11
207
From Tamil Nadu border - Sarjapur - Hoskote - Devanhalli - Doddaballapura -Dobbaspet
135 km (84 mi)
12
209
From Tamil Nadu border - Chamrajnagar - Kollegal - Malavalli - Kanakapura - Bangalore
170 km (110 mi)
13
212
From Kerala border - Gundlupet - Nanjangud - Mysore - T Narsipur - Kollegal
160 km (99 mi)
14
218
Hubli - Nargund - Kerur - Bijapur - Sindgi - Jevargi - Gulbarga and terminating at its junction with NH No.9 near Homnabad
399 km (248 mi)
15
234
Mangalore - Belthangady - Mudigere - Belur - Huliyar - Sira - Madhugiri - Gauribidanur - ChintamaniSrinivasapur - Up to Andhra Pradesh Border
509 km (316 mi)
Kerala
Main article :
Roads in Kerala
S.No.
Route
Length (km.)
1
17
Karnataka Border - Manjeshwar - Kasaragod - Kanhangad - Payyannur - Kannur - Thalassery- Vadakara - Kozhikode (Calicut) - Feroke - Kottakkal - Valanchery - Kuttipuram - Ponnani - Chavakkad - Kodungallur - North Paravur Junction with NH 47 at Edappally, Kochi
421 km (262 mi)
2
47
Tamil Nadu Border - Walayar - Palakkad (Palghat) - Alathur - Mannuthy - Chalakudy - Angamaly - Aluva - Kochi (Edapally) - Kochi (Vytilla) - Cherthala - Alappuzha (Alleppey) - Kayamkulam - Kollam - Thiruvananthapuram - up to Kaliyakkavilai in Tamil Nadu border.
417 km (259 mi)
3
47A
Kochi byepass (Kundanur) Junction with 47 - Willingdon Island
6 km (3.7 mi)
4
47C
Kochi bypass (Kalamasserry Junction) with 47 - Vallarpadam
17.2 km (10.7 mi)
5
49
Kochi bypass (Kundanur Junction). - Thripunithura - Muvattupuzha - Kotamangalam - Adimali - Devikulam up to Tamil Nadu Border
167 km (104 mi)
6
208
Kollam - Kottarakara - Punalur - Thenmala - Aryankavu up to Tamil Nadu border
81 km (50 mi)
7
212
Kozhikode - Thamarassery - Kalpetta - Sultan Battery up to Karnataka Border
119 km (74 mi)
8
213
Palakkad - Mannarkkad - Perinthalmanna - Malappuram - Junction with NH 17 at Ramanattukara
125 km (78 mi)
9
220
Kollam - Kadavoor - Kundara - Kottarakara - Adoor - Pandalam - Chengannur - Thiruvalla - Changanassery - Kottayam - Ponkunnam - Kanjirapally - Mundakayam - Peermade - Vandiperiyar - Kumily up to Tamil Nadu border
190 km (120 mi)
Madhya Pradesh
S.No.
NH No.
Route
Length (km.)
1
3
Rajasthan border – Morena - Gwalior - Shivpuri - Guna - Biaora - Pachore - Sarangpur - Shajapur - Maksi - Dewas - Indore - Thikri - Sendhwa - up to Maharashtra border
712 km (442 mi)
2
7
From UP border - Mauganj - Mangawan - Rewa - Katni - Jabalpur - Lakhnadon - Seoni - Gopalganj - Khawasa up to Maharashtra border.
504 km (313 mi)
3
12
Jabalpur - Shahpura - Bareli - Obedullaganj - Bhopal - Narsinghgarh - Biaora - Rajgarh - Khilchipur up to Rajasthan border
490 km (300 mi)
4
12A
From the northern border with Uttar Pradesh - Orchha - Pirthipur - Tikamgarh - Shahgarh - Damoh - Tendukheda - Jabalpur - Mandla - Bichhi to the Chhattisgarh border at Chilpi
482 km (300 mi)
5
25
Shivpuri - Karera - UP border
82 km (51 mi)
6
26
From UP border - Barodia - Sagar - Deori - Narsimhapur - Lakhnadon
268 km (167 mi)
7
26A
The highway starting from its junction with NH86 near Sagar - connecting Jeruwakhera - Khurai and terminating at Bina
75 km (47 mi)
8
27
From UP border - Sohagi - Mangawan
50 km (31 mi)
9
59
From Gujarat border - Jhabua - Dhar - Indore
139 km (86 mi)
10
59A
Indore - Kannod - Khategaon - Harda - Sodalpur - Betul
264 km (164 mi)
11
69
Bhopal - Obedullaganj - Hoshangabad - Itarsi - Shahpur - Betul - Pandhurna - Chicholi - Maharashtra border
330 km (210 mi)
12
75
Gwalior - Datia - U.P. Border - Alipura - Chhatarpur - Panna - Satna - Rewa - Sidhi - Bargana - UP border
600 km (370 mi)
13
76
From Rajasthan border - Kota - Shivpuri
60 km (37 mi)
14
78
Katni - Umaria - Shahdol - Anupur - Chhattisgarh border
178 km (111 mi)
15
79
Rajasthan border - Nimach - Mandsaur - Ratlam - Ghata Bilod - Indore
280 km (170 mi)
16
86
From UP border - Chhatarpur - Hirapur - Banda - Sagar - Rahatgarh - Vidisha - Raisen - Bhopal - Sehore - Ashta - Dewas
494 km (307 mi)
17
86A
The highway starting from its junction with NH86 near Rahatgarh connecting Begamganj - Gairatganj - and terminating at its junction with NH86 in Bhopal
176 km (109 mi)
18
92
From UP border - Bhind - Mahgawan - Gwalior
96 km (60 mi)
Maharashtra
S.No.
NH No.
Route
Length (km.)
1
3
From MP Border - Sangvi - Dhule - Malegaon - Chandwad - Pimpalgaon Baswant - Nashik road - Igatpuri - Bhiwandi - Thane - Mulund- Sion - Dadar - Mumbai|391 km (243 mi)
2
4
Junction with NH No.3 near Thane - Panvel - Pune - Satara- Amitkumar Jadhav Village - - Kolhapur - Kagal up to Karnataka border
371 km (231 mi)
3
4B
Jawaharlal Nehru Port Trust NH No.4 near km 109 Palaspe
20 km (12 mi)
4
4C
NH No.4 near Kalamboli at km 116 junction with NH No.4B km 16.687
5
6
From Gujarat border - Navapur - Visarwadi - Sakri - Dhule - Erandol - Jalgaon - Muktainagar - Malkapur - Khamgaon - Akola - Amravati - Nagpur - Bhandara - Deori - Raipur - Kolkata
813 km (505 mi)
6
7
From MP border - Deolapar - Nagpur - Hinganghat - Karanji up to Andhra Pradesh border.
232 km (144 mi)
7
8
From Gujarat border - Talasari - Bandra - Mumbai
128 km (80 mi)
8
9
Pune - Indapur - Solapur - Umarga up to Karnataka border.
336 km (209 mi)
9
13
Solapur - Nandnee - Karnataka border
43 km (27 mi)
10
16
From Andhra Pradesh border - Sironcha - Kopela up to Chhattisgarh Border
30 km (19 mi)
11
17
Panvel - Pen - Mahad - Poladpur - Khed - Asurde - Chiplun - Savarde - Sangameshwar - Hathkambe(Ratnagiri) - Pali - Lanja - Rajapur - Kharepatan - Kankavali - Kudal - Sawantwadi up to Goa border.
482 km (300 mi)
12
50
Nashik - Sinnar - Sangamner - Narayangaon - Rajgurunagar - Pune
192 km (119 mi)
13
69
Nagpur - Saoner up to MP border
55 km (34 mi)
14
204
Ratnagiri - Pali - Sakharpa - Malakapur - Shahuwadi - Kolhapur - Sangli - Pandharpur - Solapur - Tuljapur - Latur - Wardha - Nagpur
974 km (605 mi)
15
211
Solapur - Osmanabad - Beed - Gevrai - Aurangabad - Ellora - Chalisgaon - Dhule
600 km (370 mi)
16
222
The highway starting from the junction of NH3 near Kalyan and connecting Ahmadnagar - Pathardi - Parbhani - Nanded - Bhokar -up to Andhra Pradesh border.
550 km (340 mi)
Meghalaya
S.No.
NH No.
Route
Length (km.)
1
40
From Assam border - Barni Hat - Shillong - Dauki - Jowai
216 km (134 mi)
2
44
Nongstoin - Shillong up to Assam border
277 km (172 mi)
3
51
From Assam border - Bajengdoda - Tura - Dalu
127 km (79 mi)
4
62
Damra - Dambu - Baghmara - Dalu
190 km (120 mi)
Mizoram
S.No.
NH No.
Route
Length (km.)
1
44A
From Tripura Border - Tukkalh - Mamit - Sairang - Aizawl
165 km (103 mi)
2
54
From Assam Border - Chhimlung - Bualpui - Aizawl - Zobawk - Pangzawl - Lawngtla - Tuipang
515 km (320 mi)
3
54A
Theriat - Lunglei
9 km (5.6 mi)
4
54B
Venus Saddle - Saiha
27 km (17 mi)
5
150
Aizawl - Phaileng - Thingsat up to Manipur Border
141 km (88 mi)
6
154
From Assam Border to Kanpui
70 km (43 mi)
Nagaland
S.No.
NH No.
Route
Length (km.)
1
36
From Assam Border - Dimapur
3 km (1.9 mi)
2
39
From Assam Border - Dimapur - Kohima up to Manipur Border
110 km (68 mi)
3
61
Kohima - Wokhal - Mokokchung - Merang Kong up to Assam Border
220 km (140 mi)
4
150
From Manipur Border - Kohima
36 km (22 mi)
5
155
Mokokchung - Tuensang - Shamatore - Kiphire - Meluri up to Manipur Border
327 km (203 mi)
Orissa
S.No.
NH No.
Route
Length (km.)
1
5
Junction with NH No.6 in Jharkhand near Baharagora - Baripada - Baleshwar - Bhadrak - Cuttack - Bhubaneswar - Khordha - Chhatrapur - Brahmapur up to Andhra Pradesh Border.
488 km (303 mi)
2
5A
Junction with NH No.5 near Haridaspur - Paradip Port
77 km (48 mi)
3
6
From Chhattisgarh Border - Lobarchatti - Bargarh - Sambalpur - Deogarh - Barkote - Kendujhargarh - Jashipur - Bangriposi up to Jharkhand Border
462 km (287 mi)
4
23
From barhi - Panposh - Rourkela - Rajamunda - Barkote - Pala Laharha - Talcher - Jn. with NH42
209 km (130 mi)
5
42
Junction with NH No.6 near Sambalpur - Rairakhol - Anugul - Dhenkanal - Jn. with NH5 near Cuttack
261 km (162 mi)
6
43
From Chhattisgarh Border - Dhanpunji - Borigumma - Jaypur - Koraput - Sunki - Andhra Pradesh Border.
152 km (94 mi)
7
60
From West Bengal Border - Jaleswar l.n.road- Baleshwar
57 km (35 mi)
8
75
From Jharkhand Border to junction with NH No.215 near Parsora
18 km (11 mi)
9
200
From Chhattisgarh - Machida - Jharsuguda - Kochinda - Deogarh - Talcher - Kamakhyanagar - Sukinda - Chandikhole
440 km (270 mi)
10
201
Borigumma - Ampani - Bhawanipatna - Belgan - Balangir - Luisinga - Jogisuruda - Dunguripali - Bargarh
310 km (190 mi)
11
203
Bhubaneshwar - Pipili - Puri - Konark
97 km (60 mi)
12
203A
The highway starting from its junction with NH203 at Puri, connecting Bramhagiri and terminating at Satpada
49 km (30 mi)
13
215
Panikoili -Jajpur Road - Anandapur - Ghatgan - Kendujhargarh - Parsora - Koira - Rajamunda
348 km (216 mi)
14
217
From Chhattisgarh Border - Nauparha - Khariar - Titlagarh - Belgan - Ramapur - Baligurha - Nuagaon - Raikia - G.Udayagiri - Kalinga - Bhanjanagar - Asika - Brahmapur - Narendrapur - Gopalpur
438 km (272 mi)
15
224
Khordha - Nayagarh - Dashapalla - Purunakatak - Bauda - Sonapur - Balangir
298 km (185 mi)
Punjab
S.No.
NH No.
Route
Length (km.)
1
1
From Haryana Border - Rajpura - Khanna - Ludhiana - Phagwara - Jalandhar - Amritsar - Atari up to Pak Border
254 km (158 mi)
2
1A
Jalandher - Dasuya - Pathankot up to J&K Border
108 km (67 mi)
3
10
From Haryana Border - Lambi - Malout - Abohar - Fazilka - Indo/Pak Border
72 km (45 mi)
4
15
Pathankot - Gurdaspur - Batala - Amritsar - Tarn Taran - Zira - Faridkot - Bhatinda - Malout - Abohar up to Rajasthan Border.
350 km (220 mi)
5
20
Pathankot and up to H.P. Border
10 km (6.2 mi)
6
21
From Chandigarh Border - Kharar - Kurali - Rupnagar - Ghanauli up to H.P. Border
67 km (42 mi)
7
22
From Haryana Border - Dera Bassi up to Haryana Border.
31 km (19 mi)
8
64
From Haryana Border - Banur - Rajpura - Patiala - Sangrur - Barnala - Rampura Phul - Bathinda up to Haryana Border.
255.5 km (158.8 mi)
9
70
Jalandhar - Hoshiarpur up to H.P. Border
50 km (31 mi)
10
71
Jalandher - Nakodar - Moga - Barnala - Dhanaula - Sangrur - Dogal up to Haryana Border.
130 km (81 mi)
11
72
From Haryana Border up to Haryana Border.
4.5 km (2.8 mi)
12
95
From Chandigarh Border - Kharar - Morinda - Ludhiana - Jagraon - Moga - Firozpur
225 km (140 mi)
Puducherry
NH No.
S.No.
Route
Length (km.)
1
45A
Villupuram - Pondicherry - Cuddalore - Chidambaram - Sirkazhi - Karaikal - Nagapattinam
147 km (91 mi)
2
66
Pondicherry - Tindivanam - Gingee - Thiruvannamalai - Chengam - Uthangarai - Krishnagiri
208 km (129 mi)
Rajasthan
S.No.
NH No.
Route
Length (km.)
1
3
From UP Border - Majiyan up to MP Border
32 km (20 mi)
2
8
From Haryana Border - Ajarka - Behror - Kotputli - Manoharpur - Jaipur - Kishangarh - Ajmer - Beawar - Bhim - Dewair - Nathdwara - Udaipur - Khairwara - Bechiwara up to Gujarat Border
688 km (428 mi)
3
11
From UP Border - Bharatpur - Mahwa - Dausa - Jaipur - Ringas - Sikar - Fatehpur - Ratangarh - Dungargarh - and terminating at Bikaner on NH 15.
531 km (330 mi)
4
11A
Manoharpur - Dausa - Lalsot and terminating at Kothum on NH 8.
145 km (90 mi)
5
11B
The highway starting from its junction with NH 11A near Lalsot connecting Gangapur - Karauli - Sir Muthra - Angai - Barauli - Bari - and terminating at Dhaulpur on NH 3.
180 km (110 mi)
6
12
From MP Border - Ghatoli - Aklera - Jhalawar - Kota - Bundi - Devli - Tonk - Kothum - Jaipur
400 km (250 mi)
7
14
Beawar - Chadawal - Pali - Sanderav - Sirohi - Pindwara - Abu Road - Mawal up to Gujarat Border
310 km (190 mi)
8
15
From Punjab Border - Ganganagar - Suratgarh - Lunkaransar - Bikaner - Kolayat - Phalodi - Pokaran - Jaisalmer - Devikot - Shiv - Barmer - Sanchor up to Gujarat Border
906 km (563 mi)
9
65
From Haryana Border - Rajgarh - Churu - Fatehpur - Salasar - Ladnun - Deh - Nagaur - Soila - Jodhpur - Pali
405 km (252 mi)
10
71B
From Haryana Border - Bhiwadi and up to Haryana Border near Taoru
5 km (3.1 mi)
11
76
Pindwara - Gogunda - Udaipur - Chittaurgarh - Kheri - Kota - Baran - Kishanganj - Shahbad - Deori up to MP Border
480 km (300 mi)
12
79
Ajmer - Nasirabad - Jharwasa - Chittaurgarh - Nimbahera up to MP Border
220 km (140 mi)
13
79A
Kishangarh ( NH 8) - Nasirabad ( NH 79)
35 km (22 mi)
14
89
Ajmer - Pushkar - Ren - Nagaur - Nokha - Bikaner
300 km (190 mi)
15
90
Baran - Aklera
100 km (62 mi)
16
112
The highway starting from its junction with NH 14 near Bar connecting Bar - Jaitaran - Bilara - Kaparda - Jodhpur - Kalyanpur - Pachpadra - Balotra - Tilwara - Kawas - Barmer
343 km (213 mi)
17
113
The highway starting from its junction of NH 79 near Nimbahera - Bari - Pratapgarh - Sohagpura - Banswara up to Gujarat Border
200 km (120 mi)
18
114
The highway starting from its junction with NH 65 near Jodhpur - Balesar - Shaitrawa - Dechhu and terminating at Pokaran on NH 15
180 km (110 mi)
19
116
The highway starting from its junction with NH 12 near Tonk - r - Uniara and terminating at Sawai Madhopur
80 km (50 mi)
20
758
The highway starting from its junction with NH 8 near
Rajsamand - r - Bhilwara and terminating at Ladpura NH 76
160 km (99 mi)
Sikkim
S.No.
NH No.
Route
Length (km.)
1
31A
Gangtok - Singtam - Rangpo up to West Bengal Border
40 km (25 mi)
Tamil Nadu
S.No.
NH No.
Route
Length in the State
1
4
From Mumbai - Pune, Bangalore - Ranipet - Sriperumbudur - Poonamallee - Chennai
133 km (83 mi)
2
5
From Andhra Pradesh Border - elaur - Gummidipundi – Kavaraipettai - Chennai
45 km (28 mi)
3
7
From Karnataka Border - Hosur - Krishnagiri - Dharmapuri - Salem - Namakkal - Karur - Dindigul - Madurai - Virudhunagar - Sattur - Kovilpatti - Tirunelveli - Nanguneri - Vattakottai up to Kanyakumari
627 km (390 mi)
4
7A
Palayan Kottai - Vagaikulam - Tuticorin
51 km (32 mi)
5
45
Chennai - Tambaram - Chengalpattu - Madurantakam - Tindivanam - Viluppuram - Ulundurpettai - Trichy - Manapparai - Dindigul - Theni
472 km (293 mi)
6
45A
Villuppuram - Pondicherry - Cuddalore - Chidambaram - Poompuhar - Karaikal - Nagore - Nagappattinam
147 km (91 mi)
8
45B
Trichy - Viralimalai - Thuvarankurichchi - Melur - Madurai - Aruppukottai - Pandalgudi - Ettaiyapuram - Tuticorin
257 km (160 mi)
10
45C
Thanjavur - Kumbakonam - Sethiathope - Vadalur - Neyveli Township - Panruti and terminates near Vikravandi on NH-45.
159 km (99 mi)
11
46
Krishnagiri - Vaniyambadi - Vellore - Walajapet
132 km (82 mi)
12
47
Salem - Sankagiri - Perundurai - Avinashi - Coimbatore - It then enters Kerala. It re-enters Tamil Nadu border at Kaliyakkavilai - Kuzhithurai - Marthandam - Thuckalay - Nagercoil - Suchindrum - Kanyakumari.
224 km (139 mi)
13
47B
The highway starting from the junction of NH 47 near Nagercoil connecting Aralvaymozhi and terminating at its junction with NH7 near Kavalkinaru
45 km (28 mi)
14
49
From Kerala Border - Bodinayakkanur - Theni - Usilampatti - Madurai - Manamadurai - Paramakkudi - Ramanathapuram - Mandapam - Rameswaram
290 km (180 mi)
15
66
Krishnagiri - Uthangarai - Chengam - Tiruvannamalai - Gingee - Tindivanam - Pondicherry
208 km (129 mi)
16
67
Nagappattinam - Thiruvarur - Thanjavur - Trichy- Karur - Coimbatore - Mettupalayam - Ooty – Gudalur - Teppakadu up to Karnataka Border
505 km (314 mi)
17
68
Salem - Valapadi - Attur - Thalaivasal - Kallakkurichchi - Ulundurpettai
134 km (83 mi)
18
85
Kochin - Theni - Madurai - Sivagangai - Thondi
256 km (159 mi)
19
205
From Andhra Pradesh Border - Tiruttani - Tiruvallur - Ambathur - Chennai
82 km (51 mi)
20
207
Hosur - Bagalur - up to Karnataka Border
20 km (12 mi)
21
208
From Kerala Border - Sengottai - Tenkasi - Sivagiri - Srivilliputtur - T.Kallupati - Thirumangalam-Madurai
125 km (78 mi)
22
209
Dindigul - Palani - Madathukulam - Udumalaippettai - Pollachi - Coimbatore - Satyamangalam - Hasanur up to Karnataka Border
286 km (178 mi)
23
210
Trichy - Pudukkottai - Tirumayam - Kanadukathan - Karaikkudi - Devakottai - Devipattinam - Ramanathapuram
160 km (99 mi)
24
219
From Andhra Pradesh Border - Krishnagiri
22 km (14 mi)
25
220
From Kerala Border - Gudalur - Cumbum - Uthamapalayam - Theni
55 km (34 mi)
26
226
Perambalur, Kunnam, Ariyalur, Paluvur, Thiruvaiyaru, Thanjavur - Gandharvakottai - Pudukkottai - Thirumayam - Kilasevalpatti - Tirupathur - Madagupatti - Sivaganga - Manamadurai
212 km (132 mi)
27
227
Trichy - Lalgudi - Kallakudi - Kizhapalur - Udaiarpalayam - Jayamkondam - Gangaikondacholapuram - Kattumannarkoil - Lalpet - Kumaratchi - Chidambaram
135 km (84 mi)
28
234
From Andhra Pradesh Border - Peranampattu - Gudiyatham - Vellore City - Polur - Tiruvanamalai - Villupuram
[2] 234 km (145 mi)
Tripura
S.No.
NH No.
Route
Length (km.)
1
44
From Assam Border - Ambassa - Agartala - Udaipur - Sabroom
335 km (208 mi)
2
44A
From Mizoram Border - Sakhan - Manu
65 km (40 mi)
Uttar Pradesh
S.No.
NH No.
Route
Length (km.)
1
2
From Haryana Border - Kosi - Mathura - Agra - Firozabad - Etawah - Aurraiya - Kanpur - Fatehpur - Allahabad - Gopiganj - Varanasi - Chandauli up to Bihar Border
752 km (467 mi)
2
2a
3
3
Agra up to Rajasthan Border
26 km (16 mi)
4
7
Varanasi - Mirzapur - Lalganj - Baraundha up to M.P. Border
128 km (80 mi)
5
11
Agra - Kiraoli up to Rajasthan Border
51 km (32 mi)
6
12A
From MP Border up to junction with NH 26 near Jhansi
7 km (4.3 mi)
7
19
Ghazipur - Ballia - Rudrapur up to Bihar Border
120 km (75 mi)
8
24
From Delhi Border - Ghaziabad - Hapur - Moradabad - Rampur - Bareilly - Shahjahanpur - Sitapur - Lucknow
431 km (268 mi)
9
24B
Allahabad - Rae Bareli - Lucknow
189 km (117 mi)
10
24A
Bakshi - Ka - Talab - Chinhat (NH 28)
17 km (11 mi)
11
25
Lucknow - Unnao - Kanpur - Orai - Jhansi - Raksa up to M.P. Border
270 km (170 mi)
12
25A
Km19 (NH 25) - Bakshi-Ka-Talab
31 km (19 mi)
13
26
Jhansi - Lalitpur - Gona up to MP Border
128 km (80 mi)
14
27
Allahabad - Jasra up to MP Border
43 km (27 mi)
15
28
From Bihar Border - Tryasujan - Gorakhpur - Basti - Faizabad - Barabanki - Lucknow
311 km (193 mi)
16
28B
From Bihar Border - Padrauna - Kasia - Junction with NH28
29 km (18 mi)
17
28C
Bara Banki - Ramnagar - Bahraich - Nanpara up to Nepal Border
140 km (87 mi)
18
29
Sonauli - Farenda - Gorakhpur - Chillupar - Kopaganj - Ghazipur - Saidpur - Varanasi
360 km (220 mi)
19
56
Lucknow - Amethi - Jagdishpur - Sultanpur - Badlapur - Jaunpur - Varanasi
285 km (177 mi)
20
56A
Chinhat (NH 28) km.16 ( NH 56)
13 km (8.1 mi)
21
56B
km.16 on NH56 to km.19 of NH25.
19 km (12 mi)
22
58
From Delhi Border - Ghaziabad - Meerut - Muzaffarnagar - Purkazi up to Uttaranchal Border
165 km (103 mi)
23
72A
Chhutmalpur up to Uttaranchal Border.
30 km (19 mi)
24
73
From Uttaranchal Border - Saharanpur - Sarsawa up to Haryana Border
60 km (37 mi)
25
74
From Uttaranchal Border - Najibabad - Nagina - Dhampur - Afzalgarh - Uttranchal Border - Amaria - Jahanabad - Pilibhit - Nawabganj - Bareilly
147 km (91 mi)
26
75
From Rewa, MP - Karari - Jhansi –Makrar - Maurampur - MP to UP - Renukoot - Dudhinagar - Wyndhamganj - UP to JH - Ranchi
110 km (68 mi)
27
76
From MP Border - Jhansi - Mauranipur - MP Border - Kulpahar - Mahoba - Banda - Karwi - Mau - Jasra - Allahabad
488 km (303 mi)
28
86
Kanpur - Ghatampur - Hamirpur - Maudaha - Kabrai - Mahoba - MP Border.
180 km (110 mi)
29
87
Rampur - Bilaspur up to Uttranchal Border
32 km (20 mi)
30
91
Ghaziabad - Dadri - Sikanderabad - Bulandshahr - Khurja - Amiya - Aligarh - Etah - Chhibramau - Kannauj - Kanpur
405 km (252 mi)
31
91A
The highway starting from its junction with NH 2 near Etawah connecting Bharthana - Bidhuna - Bela and terminating at its junction with NH 91 near Kannauj
126 km (78 mi)
32
92
Bhongoan - Bewar - Kishni - Etawah - Udi up to Rajasthan Border
75 km (47 mi)
33
93
Agra - Hathras - Aligarh - Babrala - Chandausi - Bilari - Moradabad
220 km (140 mi)
34
96
Faizabad - Sultanpur - Bela - Pratapgarh - Soraon - Allahabad
160 km (99 mi)
35
97
Ghazipur - Zamania - Saiyedraja
45 km (28 mi)
36
119
The highway starting from its junction with NH 58 near Meerut connecting Mawana - Bahsuma - Bijnor - Kiratpur - Najibabad and up to Uttranchal border.
125 km (78 mi)
37
231
Raebareli - partapgarh - Machlishahar - Jaunpur
169 km (105 mi)
38
232
tanda - sultanpur - gauriganj - raebareli - lalganj - fatehpur - banda
305 km (190 mi)
39
330A
Raebareli - jagdishpur - faizabad
227 km (141 mi)
40
235
The highway starting from Meerut connecting Hapur, Gulaothi and terminating at Bulandshahar.
75 km (47 mi)
Uttarakhand (Uttranchal)
S.No.
NH No.
Route
Length (km.)
1
58
From UP Border - Manglaur - Roorkee - Haridwar - Rishikesh - Shivpuri - Devaprayag - Srinagar - Khankra - Rudraprayag - Karnaprayag - Chamoli - Joshimath - Badrinath - Mana
373 km (232 mi)
2
72
From H.P. Border - Dhalipur - Sahaspur - Jhajra - Dehradun - Bullawa - Haridwar
100 km (62 mi)
3
72A
From UP Border - Majra - Dehradun
15 km (9.3 mi)
4
73
Roorkee - Bhagwanpur up to UP Border
20 km (12 mi)
5
74
Haridwar - up Border - Jaspur - Kashipur - Barakhera - Rudrapur - Kichha - Sitarganj and up to UP Border.
153 km (95 mi)
6
87
From UP Border - Rudrapur - Pantnagar - Haldwani - Nainital - Bhowali - Almora - Ranikhet - Dwarahat - Chaukutia - Gairsain - Adbadri and connecting with NH 58 near Karnaprayag
284 km (176 mi)
7
94
Rishikesh - Ampata - Tehri - Chham - Dharasu - Kuthanaur - Kharsali - Yamnotri
160 km (99 mi)
8
108
Dharasu - Uttar Kashi - Maneri - Bhatwari - Purga - Bhaironghati - Gaurikund - Gangotri
127 km (79 mi)
9
109
Rudraprayag - Tilwara - Guptkashi - Kedarnath
76 km (47 mi)
10
119
From UP Border - Kotdwara - Banghat - Bubakhal - Pauri - Srinagar Uttarakhand
135 km (84 mi)
11
121
The highway starting from its junction with NH 74 near Kashipur - connecting Ramnagar - Dhumkot - Thalisain - Tripalisain - Pabo - Paithani and terminating at NH 119 near Bubakhal
252 km (157 mi)
12
123
The highway starting from its junctions with NH 72 connecting near Harbatpur - Vikasnagar - Kalsi - Badwala - Nainbagh - Naugaon near Barkotbend
95 km (59 mi)
13
125
The highway starting from its junction with NH 74 near Sitarganj - Khatima - Tanakpur - Champawat - Pithoragarh Dharchula or tawaghat
201 km (125 mi)
West Bengal
S.No.
NH No.
Route
Length (km.)
1
2
From Jharkhand border-Barakar–Asansol–Raniganj–Durgapur–Panagarh–Palsit–Dankuni near Calcutta/Kolkata
235 km (146 mi)
2
6
From Jharkhand Border–Kharagpur–Debra–Panskura–Kolaghat–Bagnan–Dankuni near Kolkata
161 km (100 mi)
3
31
Dalkhola–Kanki–Panjipara–Islampur–Bagdogra–Sevok–Mainaguri–Gairkata–Falakata–Cooch Behar–Tufanganj up to Assam Border
366 km (227 mi)
4
31A
Sevok-Namthang up to Sikkim Border
30 km (19 mi)
5
31C
Galgalia-Naxalbari-Bagdogra-Chalsa-Nagrakata- Gairkata- Alipurdura up to Assam Border.
142 km (88 mi)
6
32
From Jharkhand Border-Goorinathdham -Puruliya- Kantadih-Urma- Balarampur up to Jharkhand Border
72 km (45 mi)
7
34
Dalkhola–Karandighi–Raiganj–Pandua–Ingraj Bazar–Morgram–Baharampur–Palashi–Krishnanagar–Barasat–Kolkata
443 km (275 mi)
8
35
Barasat-Gaighata-Bangaon-Petrapole on India–Bangladesh border.
61 km (38 mi)
9
41
Junction with NH-6 near Panskura-Tamluk-Mahishadal-Haldia Port.
51 km (32 mi)
10
55
Siliguri-Kurseong-Darjeeling
77 km (48 mi)
11
60
From Orissa Border-Dantan-Belda-Kharagpur-Midnapore-Bankura-Mejia-Raniganj and terminating at its junction with NH 2
389 km (242 mi)
12
60A
Bankura-Chhatna-Hura-Landhurka-Puruliya
100 km (62 mi)
13
80
Farrakka up to Bihar Border
10 km (6.2 mi)
14
81
From Bihar Border-Harishchandrapur-Kumangarj-Malda
55 km (34 mi)
15
117
Setu-Kolkata-Diamond Harbour-Kulpi-Namkhana-Bakkhali
138 km (86 mi)
16
116B
Nandakumar - Contai - Digha - Chandaneswar
91 km (57 mi)
Andaman & Nicobar
S.No.
NH No.
Route
Length (km.)
1
223
The Great Andaman Trunk Road connecting Port Blair - Baratang - Mayabunder
300 km (190 mi)
TOTAL LENGTH (in km.)
65,569 km (40,743 mi)
List of State-wise National Highways in India
List of State-wise National Highways in India
Sl. No.
Name of State
National Highway No.
Total Length (in km)
1
Andhra Pradesh
4, 5, 7, 9, 16, 18, 43, 63, 202, 205, 214, 214A, 219, 221 & 222
4472
2
Arunachal Pradesh
52, 52A & 153
392
3
Assam
31, 31B, 31C, 36, 37, 37A, 38, 39, 44, 51, 52, 52A, 52B, 53, 54, 61, 62, 151, 152, 153 & 154
2836
4
Bihar
2, 2C, 19, 28, 28A, 28B, 30, 30A, 31, 57, 57A, 77, 80, 81, 82,
83, 83, 84, 85, 98, 99, 101, 102, 103, 104, 105, 106, 107 & 110
3642
5
Chandigarh
21
24
6
Chhattisgarh
6, 12A, 16, 43, 78, 200, 202, 216, 217, 111, & 221
2184
7
Delhi
1, 2, 8, 10 & 24
72
8
Goa
4A, 17, 17A & 17B
269
9
Gujarat
NE-I, 6, 8, 8A, 8B, 8C, 8D, 8E, 14, 15, 59, 113 & 228
3245
10
Haryana
1, 2, 8, 10, 21A, 22, 64, 65, 71, 71A, 72, 73, 73A , 71B & NE-II1512
1512
11
Himachal Pradesh
1A, 20, 21, 21A, 22, 70, 72, 88 & 73A
1208
12
Jammu
& Kashmir
1A, 1B, 1C
& 1D
1245
13
Jharkhand
2, 6, 23, 31, 32, 33, 75, 78, 80, 98, 99
& 100
1805
14
Karnataka
4, 4A, 7, 9, 13, 17, 48, 63, 67, 206, 207,209, 212 & 218
3843
15
Kerala
17, 47, 47A, 49, 208, 212, 213, & 220
1440
16
Madhya Pradesh
3, 7, 12, 12A, 25, 26, 26A, 27, 59, 59A, 69, 75, 76, 78, 86
& 92
4670
17
Maharashtra
3, 4, 4B, 4C, 6, 7, 8, 9, 13, 16, 17, 50, 69, 204, 211 & 222
4176
18
Manipur
39, 53, 150 & 155
959
19
Meghalaya
40, 44, 51 & 62
810
20
Mizoram
44A, 54, 54A, 54B, 150 & 154
927
21
Nagaland
36, 39, 61, 150 & 155
494
22
Odisha
5, 5A, 6, 23, 42, 43, 60, 75, 200, 201, 203, 203A, 215, 217 & 2243704
3704
23
Puducherry
45A & 66
53
24
Punjab
1, 1A, 10, 15, 20, 21, 22, 64, 70, 71, 72 & 95
1557
25
Rajasthan
3, 8, 11, 11A, 11B, 12, 14, 15, 65, 71B, 76, 79, 79A, 89, 5585, 90, 113, 112, 114 & 116
53
26
Sikkim
31A
62
27
Tamilnadu
4, 5, 7, 7A, 45, 45A, 45B, 45C, 46, 47, 47B, 49, 66, 67, 68, 205, 207, 208, 209, 210, 219, 220, 226 & 227
4462
28
Tripura
44 & 44A 400
400
29
Uttaranchal
58, 72, 72A, 73, 74, 87, 94, 108, 109, 123, 119, 121, 87 Ext. & 125
1991
30
Uttar Pradesh
2, 2A, 3, 7, 11, 12A, 19, 24, 24A, 24B, 25, 25A, 26, 27, 28,
28B, 28C, 29, 56, 56A, 56B, 58, 72A, 73, 74, 75, 76, 86, 87, 91, 91A,
92, 93 ,96, 97 , 119 & NE-II
5874
31
West Bengal
2, 2B, 6, 31, 31A, 31C, 32, 34, 35, 41, 55, 60, 60A, 80, 81 & 117
2377
32
Andaman & Nicobar
223
300
Total
66590
Posted by
Bajaho
at
2:40 AM
1 comment:
Labels:
National Highways in India
Older Posts
Home
Subscribe to:
Posts (Atom)
Translate Language
Search Free All in one resource guide
Loading...
All in One Archive
▼
2013
(2)
▼
Nov
(2)
INDIA AT A GLANCE
INTERNATIONAL FACTS
►
2010
(5)
►
Apr
(3)
►
Mar
(2)
Popular Posts
Railway stations in India
A
A brown building with clock towers, domes and pyramidal tops. A wide street in front of it
Chhatrapati Shivaji Terminus is the busiest ...
National Highways in India
National Highways
India has a huge network of national highways. The national highways
have a total length of 70,548 kms. Indian hig...
Indian Railways
Railway zones
A schematic map of the Indian Railways network, showing the various
zones.
The headquarters of the Indian Ra...
Global Warming
Global warming is an increase in the earth's temperature due to fossil fuels, industry, and agricultural processes caused by human, natu...
NOKIA Secret Codes
On the main screen type in: *#06# for checking the IMEI (International Mobile Equipment Identity). *#7780# reset to factory settings. *#6770...
Google+ Followers
Daily Calendar
Bandwidth Speed Test
World Clock
About Me
Bajaho
View my complete profile
Followers
countdown
Loading...
Catch on news
Loading...
Picture Window template. Powered by
Blogger .