Mahabharata | Sulekha Creative
Sulekha.com
Sign in
|
Register
Delhi
Popular Cities
Bangalore
Chennai
Delhi
Mumbai
Hyderabad
Pune
Kolkata
Ahmedabad
This city is currently not listed in Sulekha
×
Community
Home Talk
By Topic
Bathroom
Bedroom
DIY & Crafts
Gardening
Home Buzz
Kitchen
Living and Dining
Pets
Property Beat
By Topic
Bangalore
Chennai
Delhi/NCR
Hyderabad
Mumbai
India
Pune
Other Cities
Properties for Sale
Apartments / Flats New Projects Individual Houses Plots & Land Commercial Property Builders Property Agents Price Trends
Creative
By Topic
Books
Current Affairs
Poetry
Food
General
Short Stories
Travel
Vernacular
Contests
Inside Outside Contest - Closed
Monsoon Romance Short Story Contest - Closed
Interview
Home Talk
Property Beat
Post in Creative
Creative
Cars/Bikes
Education
Home Needs
Lifestyle
Mobiles
Movies
Office Needs
Property
Travel
Health
My Dashboard
Post Now
Q & A
Blog
Review
Link
Photo
Video
Search Member
Search Keyword
Creative General Mahabharata
Mahabharata
R Phani Kumar
/
8 yrs ago
/
1
“Mahabharat” redirects here. For the television series by
B. R. Chopra , see
Mahabharat (TV series) .
For the film by
Peter Brook , see
The Mahabharata (1989 film) .
Manuscript illustration of the Battle of Kurukshetra
The
Mahābhārata
( Devanagari : महाभारत) is one of the two major
Sanskrit epics
of
ancient India , the other being the
Ramayana .
With more than 74,000 verses, long prose passages, and about 1.8 million words in total, it is one of the longest
epic poems
in the world. [1]
Including the
Harivamsa , the
Mahabharata
has a total length of more than 90,000 verses.
It is of immense importance to the culture of
India
and
Nepal , and is a major text of
Hinduism . Its discussion of human goals ( artha
or wealth,
kama
or pleasure,
dharma
or duty/harmony, and
moksha
or liberation) takes place in a long-standing mythological tradition, attempting to explain the relationship of the individual to society and the world (the nature of the 'Self') and the workings of
karma .
The title may be translated as "the great tale of the
Bharata
Dynasty", according to the
Mahābhārata' s own testimony extended from a shorter version simply called
Bhārata
of 24,000 verses [2]
The epic is part of the Hindu
itihāsa , literally "that which happened", which includes with the
Ramayana
and the
Purāṇas .
Traditionally, Hindus ascribe the
Mahabharata
to
Vyasa . Due to its immense length, its philological study has a long history of attempts to unravel its historical growth and composition layers. Its earliest layers date back to the late
Vedic period
and it probably reached its final form in the early
Gupta period .
With its depth and magnitude, the
Mahabharata' s scope is best summarized by one quotation from the beginning of its first
parva
(section): "What is found here, may be found elsewhere. What is not found here, will not be found elsewhere."
[ citation needed ]
In its scope, the
Mahabharata
is more than simply a story of kings and princes, sages and wise men, demons and gods.
Vyasa , says that one of its aims is elucidating the four goals of life:
dharma
(duty), artha
(wealth), kama
(pleasure), and
moksha
(liberation). The narrative culminates in
moksha , believed by Hindus to be the ultimate goal of human beings.
Karma
and
dharma
play an integral role in the
Mahabharata .
The
Mahabharata
includes aspects of Hinduism, stories of the gods and goddesses, and explanations of
Hindu philosophy . Among the principal works and stories that are a part of the
Mahabharata
are the following (often considered isolated as works in their own right):
Bhagavad Gita
(Krishna advises and teaches
Arjuna
when he is ridden with doubt. Anusasanaparva.)
Damayanti
(or Nala and Damayanti, a love story. Aranyakaparva.)
Krishnavatara (the story of
Krishna , the
Krishna Lila , which is woven through many chapters of the story)
An abbreviated version of the
Ramayana . Aranyakaparva.
Rishyasringa
(also written as Rshyashrnga, the horned boy and rishi. Aranyakaparva.)
Vishnu sahasranama
(a hymn to
Vishnu , which describes his 1000 names; Anushasanaparva.)
It is undisputed that the full length of the
Mahabharata
has accreted over a long period. The
Mahabharata
itself (1.1.61) distinguishes a core portion of 24,000 verses, the
Bharata
proper, as opposed to additional secondary material, while the
Ashvalayana Grhyasutra
(3.4.4) makes a similar distinction. According to the
Adi-parva
of the
Mahabharata
( shlokas
81, 101-102), the text was originally 8,800 verses when it was composed by
Vyasa
and was known as the
Jaya
(Victory), which later became 24,000 verses in the
Bharata
recited by
Vaisampayana , and finally over 90,000 verses in the
Mahabharata
recited by Ugrasravas. [3]
As with the field of
Homeric studies , research on the
Mahabharata
has put an enormous effort into recognizing and dating various layers within the text. The complex structure had caused some early
Western Indologists
to refer to it as chaotic. [4]
The earliest known references to the
Mahabharata
and its core
Bharata
date back to the
6th - 5th century BC , in the
Ashtadhyayi
( sutra
6.2.38) of
Pāṇini
(c. 520-460 BC), and in the
Ashvalayana Grhyasutra
(3.4.4), while various characters from the epic are also mentioned in earlier
Vedic literature . [3]
This indicates that the core 24,000 verses, known as the
Bharata , as well as an early version of the extended
Mahabharata , were composed by the 6th-5th century BC, with parts of the
Jaya 's original 8,800 verses possibly dating back as far as the 9th-8th century BC. [5]
The earliest testimony of the existence of the full text of the
Mahabharata
is by the Greek
Sophist Dion Chrysostom
(c. 40-105), who mentions that "the Indians possess an
Iliad
of 100,000 verses". [3]
The later copper-plate inscription of the
Maharaja
Sharvanatha (533-534) from Khoh ( Satna
District,
Madhya Pradesh ) also describes the
Mahabharata
as a "collection of 100,000 verses" ( shatasahasri samhita ). The
redaction
of this large body of text was carried out after formal principles, emphasizing the numbers 18 [6]
and 12. The addition of the latest parts may be dated by the absence of the
Anushasana-parva
from
MS Spitzer , the oldest surviving Sanskrit philosophical manuscript dated to the first century, that contains among other things a list of the books in the
Mahabharata . From this evidence, it is likely that the redaction into 18 books took place in the first century. An alternative division into 20 parvas appears to have co-existed for some time. The division into 100 sub-parvas (mentioned in Mbh. 1.2.70) is older, and most parvas are named after one of their constituent sub-parvas. The
Harivamsa
consists of the final two of the 100 sub-parvas, and was considered an appendix ( khila ) to the
Mahabharata
proper by the redactors of the 18 parvas.
Some people believe that "The epic's setting certainly has a historical precedent in
Vedic India , where the
Kuru
kingdom was the center of political power in the late
2nd
and early
1st
millennia BCE. A dynastic conflict of the period could very well have been the inspiration for the
Jaya , the core on which the Mahabharata corpus was built, and eventually the climactic battle came to be viewed as an epochal event. Dating this conflict relies almost exclusively on textual materials in the Mahabaharata itself and associated genealogical lists in the later
Puranic literature ."
[ citation needed ]
The evidence of the Puranas is of two kinds. Of the first kind, there is the direct statement that there were 1015 (or 1050) years between the birth of Parikshit (Arjuna's grandson) and the accession of Mahapadma Nanda, commonly dated to 382 BCE, which would lead to an estimate of about 1400 BCE for the Bharata battle. [8]
F.E. Pargiter rejected this because it would imply improbably long reigns on average for the kings listed in the genealogies. [9]
Of the second kind are analyses of parallel genealogies in the Puranas between the times of Adhisimakrishna (Parikshit's great-grandson) and Mahapadma Nanda. Pargiter accordingly estimated 26 generations by averaging the lists of ten different dynasties, and assumed 18 years for the average duration of a reign to arrive at an estimate of 850 BCE for Adhisimakrishna, and thus approximately 950 BCE for the Bharata battle. [10] B. B. Lal
used the same approach with a more conservative assumption of the average reign to estimate a date of 836 BCE, and correlated this with archaeological evidence from
Painted Grey Ware
sites, the association being strong between PGW artifacts and places mentioned in the epic. [11]
Attempts to date the events using methods of
archaeoastronomy
have produced, depending on which passages are chosen and how they are interpreted, estimates ranging from the late 4th to the mid 2nd millennium BCE. [12]
The late 4th millennium date has a precedent in the calculation of
Aryabhata
(6th century), based on planetary conjunctions. His date of February 18th 3102 BCE has become widespread in Indian tradition (for example, the
Aihole inscription
of
Pulikeshi II , dated to Saka 556 = 634 CE, claims that 3735 years have elapsed since the Bharata battle. [13] ) Another traditional school of astronomers and historians, represented by
Vriddha-Garga ,
Varahamihira
(author of the
Brhatsamhita ) and
Kalhana
(author of the
Rajatarangini ), place the Bharata war 653 years after the Kaliyuga epoch, corresponding to 2449 BCE. [14]
In discussing the dating questions historian A. L. Basham says:
"According to the most popular later tradition the Mahabharata War took place in 3102 B.C., which in the light of all evidence, is quite impossible. More reasonable is another tradition, placing it in the 15th century B.C., but this is also several centuries too early in the light of our archaeological knowledge. Probably the war took place around the beginning of the 9th century B.C.; such a date seems to fit well with the scanty archaeological remains of the period, and there is some evidence in the Brahmana literature itself to show that it cannot have been much earlier." [15]
Structure and authorship
The epic employs the
story within a story
structure, otherwise known as frametales, popular in many Indian religious and secular works. It is recited to the King
Janamejaya
by
Vaisampayana , a disciple of
Vyasa .
The epic is traditionally ascribed to
Vyasa , who is also one of the major dynastic characters within the epic. The first section of the
Mahabharata
states that it was
Ganesha
who, at the behest of Vyasa, wrote down the text to Vyasa's dictation. Ganesha is said to have agreed to write it only on condition that Vyasa never pause in his recitation. Vyasa agreed, providing that Ganesha took the time to understand what was said before writing it down. This also serves as a popular variation on the stories of how Ganesha's right tusk was broken (a traditional part of Ganesha imagery). This version attributes it to the fact that, in the rush of writing, his pen failed, and he snapped off his tusk as a replacement in order that the transcription not be interrupted.
Synopsis
The core story of the work is that of a dynastic struggle for the throne of
Hastinapura , the kingdom ruled by the
Kuru
clan. The two collateral branches of the family that participate in the struggle are the
Kaurava , the elder branch of the family, and the
Pandava , the younger branch, with the situation where
Kaurava 's elder brother
Duryodhana
is younger than eldest brother of
Pandava 's i.e.
Yudhisthir , leading to conflict where both have the claims to the throne, citing themselves elder.
The struggle culminates in the
great battle of Kurukshetra , in which the
Pandavas
are ultimately victorious. The battle produces complex conflicts of kinship and friendship, instances of family loyalty and duty taking precedence over what is right, as well as the converse.
The
Mahabharata
itself ends with the death of
Krishna , and the subsequent end of his dynasty, and ascent of the Pandava brothers to heaven. It also marks the beginning of the Hindu age of
Kali
( Kali Yuga ), the fourth and final age of mankind, where the great values and noble ideas have crumbled, and man is heading toward the complete dissolution of right action, morality and virtue.
The elder generations
Janamejaya's ancestor
Shantanu , the king of
Hastinapura
has a short-lived marriage with the goddess
Ganga
and has a son, Devavrata (later to be called
Bhishma ), who becomes the heir apparent.
Satyavati
is the daughter of a fisherman in the kingdom, and she already has a son,
Vyasa . Many years later, when the king goes hunting, he see her and asks to marry her. Her father refuses to consent to the marriage unless Shantanu promises to make any future son of Satyavati the king upon his death. To solve the king's dilemma, Devavrata agrees not to take the throne. As the fisherman is not sure about the prince's children honouring the promise, Devavrata also takes a vow of lifelong celibacy to guarantee his father's promise.
Shantanu has two sons by Satyavati,
Chitrangada
and
Vichitravirya . Upon Shantanu's death, Chitrangada becomes king. After his death Vichitravirya rules
Hastinapura . In order to arrange the marriage of the young Vichitravirya, Bhishma goes to Kashi for a
swayamvara
of the three princesses Amba, Ambika and Ambalika. He wins them, and Ambika and Ambalika are married to Vichtravirya.
The Pandava and Kaurava princes
A motif depicting Bhima in the battle ready posture at
Hampi ,
Karnataka
Vichitravirya died young without any heirs. Satyavati then asked her first son
Vyasa
to go to Vichitravirya's widows and give them the divine vision of giving birth to son's without losing their chastity. Vyasa fathered the royal children
Dhritarashtra , who is born blind, and
Pandu , who is born pale. Through a maid of the widows, he also fathers their commoner half-brother
Vidura .
Pandu marries twice, to
Kunti
and
Madri . Dhritarashtra is married to
Gandhari , who blindfolds herself when she finds she has been married to a blind man. Pandu takes the throne because of Dhritarashtra's blindness. Pandu while out hunting deer, is however cursed that if he engages in a sexual act, he will die. He then retires to the forest along with his two wives, and his brother rules thereafter, despite his blindness.
Pandu's elder queen Kunti however, asks the gods
Dharma ,
Vayu , and
Indra
for sons, by using a boon granted by Durvasa. She gives birth to three sons
Yudhishtira ,
Bhima , and
Arjuna
through these gods. Kunti shares her boon with the younger queen
Madri , who bears the twins
Nakula
and
Sahadeva
through the
Ashwini
twins. However Pandu and Madri, unable to resist temptation, indulge in sex and die in the forest, and Kunti returns to Hastinapura to raise her sons, who are then usually referred to as the
Pandava
brothers.
Dhritarashtra has a hundred sons through
Gandhari , the
Kaurava
brothers, the eldest being
Duryodhana , and the second
Dushasana . There is rivalry between the sets of cousins, from their youth and into manhood.
Laakshagriha (The House of Wax)
Duryodhana plots to get rid of the Pandavas and tries to kill the Pandavas secretly by setting fire to their palace which he had made of
lac . However, the Pandavas are warned by their uncle, Vidura, who sends them a miner to dig a tunnel. They are able to escape to safety and go into hiding, but after leaving others behind, whose bodies are mistaken for them. Bhishma goes to the river Ganga to perform the last rites of the people found dead in the burned palace, understood to be Pandavas. Vidura then informs him that the Pandavas are alive and to keep the secret to himself.
Draupadi
In course of this exile the Pandavas are informed of a
swayamvara , a marriage competition, which is taking place for the hand of the
Panchala
princess
Draupadi . The Pandavas enter the competition in disguise as Brahmins. The task is to string a mighty steel bow and shoot a target on the ceiling while looking at its reflection in water below. Most of the princes fail, being unable to lift the bow. Arjuna, however, succeeds. When he returns with his bride, Arjuna goes to his mother, saying, "Mother, I have brought you a present!". Kunti, not noticing the princess, tells Arjuna that whatever he has won must be shared with his brothers. To ensure that their mother never utters a falsehood, the brothers take her as a common wife. In some interpretations, Draupadi alternates months or years with each brother. At this juncture they also meet
Krishna , who would become their lifelong ally and guide.
Indraprastha
After the wedding, the Pandava brothers are invited back to Hastinapura. The Kuru family elders and relatives negotiate and broker a split of the kingdom, with the Pandavas obtaining a new territory. Yudhishtira has a new capital built for this territory at
Indraprastha . Neither the Pandava nor Kaurava sides are happy with the arrangement however.
Shortly after this, Arjuna marries
Subhadra . Yudhishtira wishes to establish his position; he seeks Krishna's advice. Krishna advises him, and after due preparation and the elimination of some opposition, Yudhishthira carries out a Rajasuya Yagna ceremony; he is thus recognised as pre-eminent among kings.
The Pandavas have a new palace built for them, by
Maya
the
Danava . They invite their Kaurava cousins to Indraprastha. Duryodhana walks round the palace, and mistakes a glossy floor for water, and will not step in. After being told of his error, he then sees a pond, and assumes it is not water and falls in. Draupadi laughs at him, and he is humiliated.
The dice game
Sakuni, Duryodhana's uncle, now arranges a dice game, playing against Yudhishtira with loaded dice. Yudhishtira loses all his wealth, then his kingdom. He then even gambles his brothers, then his wife, and finally himself, into servitude. The jubilant Kauravas insult the Pandavas in their helpless state and even try to disrobe Draupadi in front of the entire court.
Dhritarashtra, Bhishma, and the other elders are aghast at the situation, and negotiate a compromise. The Pandavas are required to go into exile for 13 years, and for the 13th year must remain hidden. If discovered by the Kauravas, they will be forced into exile for another 12 years.
Exile and return
The Pandavas spend twelve years in exile. Many adventures occur during this time. They also prepare alliances for a possible future conflict. They spend their final year in disguise in the court of
Virata , and are discovered at or after the end of the year.
At the end of their exile, they try to negotiate a return to Indraprastha. However, this fails, as Duryodhana objects that they were discovered while in hiding, and that no return of their kingdom was agreed. War becomes inevitable.
The battle at Kurukshetra
The two sides summon vast armies to their help, and line up at
Kurukshetra
for a war. The Kingdoms of
Panchala ,
Dwaraka ,
Kasi ,
Kekaya ,
Magadha ,
Matsya ,
Chedi ,
Pandya
and the
Yadus
of
Mathura
and some other clans like the
Parama Kambojas
were allied with the
Pandavas . The allies of the
Kauravas
included the kings of Pragjyotisha,
Anga ,
Kekaya , Sindhudesa (including
Sindhus ,
Sauviras
and Sivis), Mahishmati,
Avanti
in Madhyadesa,
Madra ,
Gandhara ,
Bahlikas ,
Kambojas
and many others. Prior to war being declared,
Balarama , had expressed his unhappiness at the developing conflict, and left to go on
pilgrimage , thus he does not take part in the battle itself. Krishna takes part in a non-combatant role, as charioteer for Arjuna.
Before the battle, Arjuna, seeing himself facing great-uncle
Bhishma
and his teacher
Drona
on the other side, has doubts about the battle and he fails to lift his Gandiva bow. Krishna wakes him up to his call of duty in the famous
Bhagavad Gita
section of the epic.
Though initially sticking to chivalrous notions of warfare, both sides soon adopt into dishonourable tactics. At the end of the 18-day battle, only the Pandavas, Satyaki, Ashwathama and Krishna survive.
The end of the Pandavas
After seeing the carnage,
Gandhari
who had lost all her sons, curses Krishna to be a witness to a similar annihilation of his family, for though divine and capable of stopping the war, he had not done so. Krishna accepts the curse, which bears fruit 36 years later.
The Pandavas who had ruled their kingdom meanwhile, decide to renounce everything. Clad in skins and rags they retire to the
Himalaya
and climb towards heaven in their bodily form. A stray dog travels with them. One by one the brothers and Draupadi fall on their way. As each one stumbles, Yudhishitra gives the rest the reason for their fall (Draupadi was partial to Arjuna, Nakula and Sahadeva were vain and proud of their looks, Bhima and Arjuna were proud of their strength and archery skills, respectively). Only the virtuous Yudhisthira who had tried everything to prevent the carnage and the dog remain. The dog reveals himself to be the god Dharma, who reveals the nature of the test and assures Yudhishtra that his fallen siblings and wife are in heaven. Yudhisthira alone reaches heaven in his bodily form for being just and humble.
Arjuna's grandson
Parikshita
rules after them and dies bitten by a snake. His furious son, Janamejaya, decides to perform a snake sacrifice ( sarpasattra ) in order to destroy the snakes. It is at this sacrifice that the tale of his ancestors is narrated to him.
General
Post a Comment
All Comments
1
Sandeep Kumar C
/
/
8 yrs ago
informative
Comment
Topic Related Articles
MEDIA RESPONSIBLE FOR MODI HATE ATMOSPHERE
by
VS Gopalakrishnan Bhopal Notes - 16 :: Tiger knocks on the door
by
Proloy Cat-gardening (4) Purple Blue Pansies and salad to make with them!
by
daksha My Daughter's Marriage
by
kamalji Vegetarian Goan Hindu Food.
by
sheela
View More
More Articles
BETLA FOREST TOUR
by
indraajeet MEDIA RESPONSIBLE FOR MODI HATE ATMOSPHERE
by
VS Gopalakrishnan NEED FOR FARMERS MARKET TO IMPROVE FARMERS
INCOME
by
N.S Venkataraman Reunion through an old book.
by
Revathi Seshadri Meeting A Ghost- A short Story for Usha Suryamani
by
navneet
View More
Corporate
About Us
Contact Us
Meet Our Users
Sulekha Rivr
Media Coverage
Ads/Commercials
Careers/Jobs
Advertise on Sulekha
Terms/Conditions
Privacy Policy
Copyright Policy
Top Domains
Yellow Pages
Property /Rentals
Roommates /Home Stay
Buy/Sell
Cars/Bikes
Home Needs
Office Needs
Mobiles
Deals
Education
Movies
Top Cities (India)
Bangalore
Chennai
Delhi
Mumbai
Hyderabad
Pune
Kolkata
Ahmedabad
Chandigarh
Coimbatore
Cochin
Top Cities (US)
Austin
Atlanta
Bay Area
Boston
Chicago
Los Angeles
New Jersey
New York
Toronto
Follow Us
Download your Sulekha.com app now!
© 2015 Copyright Sulekha.com
All Rights Reserved.