India Info: April 2011
skip to main
|
skip to sidebar
India Info
Anything and everything that you can think of India!!
Wednesday, April 6, 2011
Rig Veda: Chariot, Constellations & Pole Star
Chariots are the trademarks of the Aryans. So it's very logical that everything they do would have chariots in it. Rig Veda has several references to chariots. Chariot and its spoked wheel appear in double meanings to represent multiple things. In the discussions on Rig Vedic Gods we've seen that one hymn says Indra rules over the world like the rim,
nemi , of the wheel containing the spokes,
ara . Even intricate parts of a wheel like
dhura , the peg with which the axle pole,
aksha , is fastened to the center or navel,
nabha , of the wheel, appears in hymns. Almost each and every part of a spoked wheel and chariot is used in RV.
Unlike the chariots and spoked wheels constellations are not the trademarks of the Aryans. In fact the Babylonians were the first in the world, at least in the recorded history, to have stared at the night sky with bewilderment and amazement. They were surely the earliest sky gazers, predating the Aryans by at least a thousand years, if we consider the dare of RV from 1700 BC onwards. It may not be unnatural for any one to stare at the night sky and feel a profoundness within. The unending darkness sprinkled with an unending number of sparkles of stars vanishing into nowhere has always aroused lot of questions in the minds of humans. The Aryans were not unique in this regard.
Staring at the sky for hours can very easily bring out some basic facts: the sky in the shape of an inverted bowl along with millions of stars seem to revolve around you : this is nothing but the celestial sphere in astronomical terminology. the sun, moon and the visible planets always appear in a line, rather, an arc : this arc or line is the ecliptic; in astronomical lingo it's the projection of the earth's orbital plane on the celestial sphere; simplistically it signifies the plane on which earth orbits round the sun; it's also roughly the plane on which all the planets orbit round the sun. the line, on which appear the sun, moon and the planets, is marked by a number of bright fixed stars which can divide the line into several compartments - the sun, moon and the planets seem to be moving from one of these compartments to the other in a fixed cycle of time : the Babylonians were the first to study these stars, which are located close to the earth's orbital plane and which later constituted the twelve zodiac constellations; for the Rig Vedic Aryans these stars that compartmentalize the ecliptic constituted the twenty seven asterisms,
nakshatras;
the number twenty seven comes from the twenty seven lunar days that roughly make a lunar month - dividing the ecliptic into twenty seven compartments makes the moon appear everyday in a new compartment, which is eventually called lunar mansion. there's only one star that doesn't seem to revolve - it doesn't move, doesn't rise, doesn't set, remains at the same place as long as the night sky is visible : this is the Polestar, the star that's located exactly to the north of or above the earth's north pole; each and every star appears to be rotating around the Polestar. It can be assumed that it didn't take much intelligence for the Rig Vedic Aryans to observe these basic things about celestial sphere, ecliptic, lunar mansions and Polestars. Incidentally almost all the ancient civilizations made the same observations. What's different in the case of the Rig Vedic Aryans is that they used these basic astronomical observations liberally in their double meanings and poetic creations. Before proceeding further let's see how the night sky looked like around 2000 BC in Arkaim - the site of an early Aryan settlement.
Below are a number of sky-maps, all with the same legend and in the same format - the red arc is the ecliptic; the constellation boundaries are marked in green; the names of the constellations and the bright stars visible very easily with naked eyes are marked in yellow and red. The first sky map show how the night sky looked like on 10th April, 2000 BC in Arkaim. It was just a day before the full moon nearest to Vernal Equinox. Some of the lunar mansions with very bright stars like Spica, Arcturus, Antares and Shaula are marked on the ecliptic. In 2000 BC Thuban of the Draco constellation was very close to being the Polestar (it was the Polestar around 2800 BC). Due to the precession of equinoxes, discussed in details earlier, different stars, all arranged in a circle, become Polestars at various points of time. Thuban (2800 BC), Polaris (now) and Vega (12000 BC & 14000 AD) are marked in the sky-map. On this particular day, 10th April, the moon is in the
nakshatra
Anuradha. Next are the sky-maps of 9th and 8th April, 2000 BC. 9th was a full moon coinciding with the Vernal Equinox, something that happens once in roughly nineteen years. On 9th and 8th the moon was in the adjoining nakshatras
Vishakha (full moon) and Swati. These sky maps show how the moon passes from one
nakshatra
to another with each passing day. Next is the sky-map at the time of sun rising on the Vernal Equinox, 9th Apr, 2000 BC, in Arkaim. The sun is in Krittika and the full moon in Vishakha. Identifying the stars during the day time is not that trivial. But it may not be tough to interpolate the
nakshatras
from the previous knowledge of their locations in the night. It has been observed earlier that at a place like Arkaim, where the ecliptic comes quite close to the horizon, it's quite trivial to observe the stars and map them to their respective
nakshatras
on ground. Next is the sky-map on 4th October, 2000 BC - the full moon close to Autumnal Equinox. It can be recalled that the location of full moon around Autumnal Equinox is same as that of sun on Vernal Equinox and vice versa. The full moon at Vernal Equinox was in Vishakha and the sun in Krittika. Hence the full moon around Autumnal Equinox should be in Krittika - that's what is seen in the sky-map too.
These observations, which can be noticed in the night sky without much difficulty, had left deep impact in the minds of the peoples of Rig Veda. Very poetically they have merged their favorite chariots with these and composed some wonderful hymns. Let's see some of these hymns. sapta yuñjanti ratham ekacakram eko aśvo vahati saptanāmā |
trinābhi cakram ajaram anarvaṃ yatremā viśvā bhuvanādhi tasthuḥ || 1.164.02 Seven to the one-wheeled chariot yoke the Courser; bearing seven names the single Courser draws it. Three-naved the wheel is, sound and undecaying, whereon are resting all these worlds of being. 1.164.02 imaṃ ratham adhi ye sapta tasthuḥ saptacakraṃ sapta vahanti aśvāḥ |
sapta svasāro abhi saṃ navante yatra ghavāṃ nihitā sapta nāma || 1.164.03 The seven who on the seven-wheeled car are mounted have horses, seven in tale, who draw them onward. Seven Sisters utter songs of praise together, in whom the names of the seven Cows are treasured. 1.162.03 The first verse talks about a single wheeled chariot,
ekachakra ratha , yoked to seven horses and driven by a single horse. In the next line it stresses on the fact that the wheel is three naved,
trinabhi , undecaying and strong, ajaram
an arvam , and on it rests the whole world,
vishva bhuvana . It's really tempting to identify the single wheel with seven horses with the ecliptic, which is also a sort of wheel that carries the seven horses - the sun, moon and the five visible planets, Mercury, Venus, Mars, Jupiter and Saturn. The stress on the point that the wheel is three naved, or with three centers, again point very simplistically to the ecliptic. The part of ecliptic that's visible to anyone during night does appear like an ellipse - with the three foci an ellipse really has three centers or naves. Another interesting thing in this verse is the term 'driven by a single horse'. Perhaps this is the first usage of an expression that means horse power - the gravitational power that drives the wheel, the ecliptic, is wonderfully and poetically referred to as the power of a single horse. The next verse talks about seven horses,
sapta ashva , driving a seven wheeled chariot,
sapta chakra ratham , on which rests the Seven. This seems to be a reference to the Big Dipper asterism, the seven stars of the Ursa Major constellation representing the seven sages, Saptarshi.
In another verse there's a reference to the One that's beyond the seven sages,
sapta rishi ; the One that has fixed firmly,
tastambha , the six regions of the sky,
rajamsi ; the One on whom rests the whole world,
vishvani bhuvanani tasthu;
the One that supports the sky as if it's the peg,
dhura , with which the axle pole of the entire wheel of the sky,
rajas , is affixed. The outer and simplistic identity of this One is surely the Polestar, the One that's at the center of the celestial sphere, the entire sky that rotates round it. Knowing that many natural things are used as the outer layers for something more profound and philosophic it's very likely that the Polestar, that doesn't move, doesn't rise or set, remains unchanged, unaltered and firm since ages, would be used in Rig Veda very effectively. Indeed it's used in several verses to refer to someone who's regarded even by Vushwakarma, who's strong in mind, vimana vihaya , and who's the Maker and Disposer,
dhata vidhata ; someone who's sought after even by He who has made us and who knows the whole world,
bhuvanani vishva ; someone who has created all things that have existence,
bhutani ; someone who's older than the Gods and the Asuras and earlier than the earth and heaven, prithivi and diva; someone who's like the germ primeval,
garbham prathamam . The following few verses talk about this One in the typical Rig Vedic style of double meaning. acikitvāñ cikituṣaś cid atra kavīn pṛchāmi vidmane na vidvān |
vi yas tastambha ṣaḷ imā rajāṃsi ajasya rūpe kimapi svid ekam || 1.164.06 I ask, unknowing, those who know, the sages, as one all ignorant for sake of knowledge, What was that ONE who in the Unborn's image hath stablished and fixed firm these worlds' six regions. 1.164.06 indraś ca yā cakrathuḥ soma tāni dhurā na yuktā rajaso vahanti || 1.164.19 And what so ye have made, Indra and Soma, steeds bear as ’twere yoked to the region's car-pole. 1.164.19 viśvakarmā vimanā ād vihāyā dhātā vidhātā paramota sandṛk |
teṣām iṣṭāni sam iṣā madanti yatrā saptaṛṣīn para ekam āhuḥ || 10.82.02 Mighty in mind and power is Visvakarman, Maker, Disposer, and most lofty Presence. Their offerings joy in rich juice where they value One, only One, beyond the Seven Ṛṣis. 10.82.02 yo naḥ pitā janitā yo vidhātā dhāmāni veda bhuvanāni viśvā |
yo devānāṃ nāmadhā eka eva taṃ sampraśnam bhuvanā yanti anyā || 10.82.03 Father who made us, he who, as Disposer, knoweth all races and all things existing, Even he alone, the Deities' narne-giver,him other beings seek for information. 10.82.03 ta āyajanta draviṇaṃ sam asmā ṛṣayaḥ pūrve jaritāro nabhūnā |
asūrte sūrte rajasi niṣatte ye bhūtāni samakṛṇvan imāni || 10.82.04 To him in sacrifice they offered treasures,—Ṛṣis of old, in numerous troops, as singers, Who, in the distant, near, and lower region, made ready all these things that have existence. 10.82.04 paro divā para enā pṛthivyā paro devebhir asurair yad asti |
kaṃ svid garbhaṃ prathamaṃ dadhra āpo yatra devāḥ samapaśyanta viśve ||
10.82.05 That which is earlier than this earth and heaven, before the Asuras and Gods had being,— What was the germ primeval which the waters received where all the Gods were seen together? 10.82.05 tam id garbhaṃ prathamaṃ dadhra āpo yatra devāḥ samaghachanta viśve |
ajasya nābhāv adhi ekamarpitaṃ yasmin viśvāni bhuvanāni tasthuḥ || 10.82.06 The waters, they received that germ primeval wherein the Gods were gathered all together. It rested set upon the Unborn's navel, that One wherein abide all things existing. 10.82.06 Here it's worth mentioning that the Seven Sages of Saptarshi, the Big Dipper asterism, made a perfect circle around the Polestar Thuban during the timeline of Rig Veda (~ 1700 BC). But now the stars of Big Dipper don't make a tight circle around the current Polestar Polaris. The term 'beyond the seven sages' surely made much more sense when the Polestar was really at the center. The following sky-map shows how the Big Dipper stars revolved round the Polestar Thuban forming a perfect circle in 2000 BC. The dotted lines show the locations of the asterism at different times of the same night.
The next sky-map shows the locus of the Big Dipper asterism as seen now. Had Rig Veda been written now the Saptarshi stars might not have been so important - it no longer makes a proper circle around the current polestar Polaris. Finally let's see how the ideas about these constellations impacted the calendar system in India. It's worth mentioning that a very precise and scientific calendar system has been in place in India since the Rig Vedic times.
Let's recall the following diagram we've seen in the discussions on
Surya's Bridal . It depicts the scenario during 3000 BC - sun is in Mrigashira on Vernal Equinox and Uttara Phalguni on Summer Solstice. From a few verses of RV it can be deduced that one of the beginnings of year during Rig Vedic times is this Summer Solstice when the sun is in Uttara Phalguni. On the other hand another name of Mrigashira is Agrahayana, which means the commencement of a year. This means that the Vernal Equinox is also a beginning of year. In fact one or more of the four cardinal points - the two equinoxes and two solstices - have been considered beginnings of year in RV. From the circular arrangement of the
nakshatras
we can identify that the
nakshatra
diametrically opposite to Mrigashira on the ecliptic is Mula - that's the location of sun on Autumn Equinox and that of full moon close to Spring Equinox. A lunar month in India is named after the
nakshatra
where the moon resides on the central full moon of that month. So the month of Vernal Equinox around 3000 BC is Mula. The word
mula
in Skt. means root, or the lowest part of anything. With respect to a year the 'root' month is nothing but its first month. So this again corroborates that Vernal Equinox is also a beginning of year. In fact later Vedic texts start the list of
nakshatras with Krittika, the location of sun on a Vernal Equinox around 2000 BC. The present enumeration of
nakshatras starts with Ashvini. The sun was in Ashvini on Vernal Equinox around 500 BC. That's the time line of Surya Siddhanta, the astronomical treatise based on which the present list has been derived.
Now let's see the circular arrangement of the
nakshatras
in another format. The location of each
nakshatra
in the ecliptic, in terms of the longitudinal degrees it comprises, is specified starting from 0 degree for Ashvini. Along with the
nakshatras , which divide the ecliptic equally into twenty seven compartments or lunar mansions, is given the location of the twelve zodiac constellations.
There's a difference between the Zodiacs (or Indian
Rashis)
and the Zodiac constellations. The former divides the ecliptic into twelve equal regions, very much like the
nakshatras . But the constellations are the actual boundaries of the groups of stars that comprise them. While Zodiacs are all of the same length the constellations are quite different - the constellation Libra is smaller than half of Virgo. The sky maps presented earlier show the boundaries of the constellations. The constellations roughly along the ecliptic, shown in a read arc, are the Zodiac constellations. During the time frame of Surya Siddhanta (the centuries following 500 BC and more precisely the years around 0 AD), when the Western and the Indian astronomies both took proper shapes, the constellation Aries, the Indian
nakshatra
Ashvini and the zodiac/ rashi
Aries/Mesha all started at the same point - the point of the Vernal Equinox or, more correctly, the position of sun on the Vernal Equinox at that time.
The Rashis or the Indian zodiacs are still at the same locations as they were in the past. Due to the precession of equinoxes the Vernal Equinox no longer aligns with the start of Aries. But the Western Zodiacs have drifted in such a way that the start of Aries is still aligned with the Vernal Equinox (2000 AD). In fact Indian Zodiac is called sideral, relative to the fixed
nakshatras , and Western tropical, relative to the drifting equinoxes. The positions of the
nakshatras , Zodiac constellations and Rashis are fixed. The positions of Vernal equinoxes with respect to these fixed entities are shown in the above diagram.
The Western Zodiac has an offset against the Indian
Rashis.
The offset is around twenty four degrees - that's the amount by which the equinox has precessed over the past two thousand years. Next let's see the scenario around 0 AD, the time when the Western Zodiac and the Indian Rashi began their reckoning and were aligned to each other. Vernal Equinox is at the beginning of the zodiac Mesha, Aries, and the nakshatra
Ashvini. The sun enters into the zodiac Karka, Cancer, on Summer Solstice. Like wise the sun enters into the zodiac Makara, Capricornus, on Winter Solstice. If Spring Equinox is taken as the beginning of the year then the year starts precisely when the sun enters into the zodiac Mesha, Aries. Though Vernal Equinox is no longer at the beginning of Mesha, still, even now, half of India (north, east, Tamil Nadu) celebrates new year when sun enters into Mesha, sometime around 14th April - it's called Vaishakhi. The rest of India (Maharashtra, Gujarat, south), celebrates new year on the new moon day just after the Vernal Equinox, sometime in late March or early April - it's called Ugadi. Beginning of a month on a new moon day has been the tradition in India since long. In fact that's the most logical thing to do for a lunar or a luni-solar calendar. In a luni-solar calendar the twelve lunar months totaling to roughly 356 days are synced up with solar year of roughly 365 days by adding an extra or intercalary thirteenth month from time to time. Rig Veda has reference to intercalary month. A lunar month generally starts and ends with a new moon. Even the ancient Roman calendar, the predecessor of Julian and Georgian calendars, had lunar months. An interesting trivia is that in ancient Roman Kingdom the first day of the month, the new moon day, used to be announced loudly to the people. That's why in Latin a new moon or the first day of the month was called
kalendae,
coming from PIE root
kale , meaning to shout, and akin to Skt. krand
and Greek
kalein . No points for guessing that the word calendar comes from the Latin
kalendae . Referring to the above diagram, the sun entered into Makara zodiac on a Winter Solstice. Passage of sun into a zodiac is called
samkranti
in Sanskrit and Makara Sankranti refers to sun's entry into Makara zodiac. Today the Winter Solstice is no longer on a Makara Samkranti, but still this is the only Samkranti that's celebrated in India with much veneration. A closer look will reveal why this is such an important day. In a tropical country like India, where winters are not at all dreadful, a winter solstice may not evoke any special feeling. But if we consider that the Rig Vedic Aryans actually came from a much colder northern Steppes we can understand why the day, which heralds the end of winter and beginning of longer days, is so important to them. It's possible that the Rig Vedic Aryans remembered their ancestors' veneration for the winter solstice. Much later, in historical times, when astronomy, astrology and rituals were being codified and given proper shapes in India this ritual of celebrating the winter solstice was retained. As it coincided with Makara Samkranti the latter name would have remained. Even later, when winter solstice no longer coincided with Makara Samkranti other significances were added the ancient ritual was retained for ever in India in its various later avatars. It's worth remembering that the biggest festival of the Kalash peoples of the HIndukush is Choumos, celebrated around winter solstice.
Posted by
Sudipto Das
at
7:50 AM
2
comments
India in 1100 BC: Atharva Veda & Iranian Avesta
India 1300 BC
<<
>>
India 1000 BC Vedic India in Iron Age Later Vedas Like the
Rig Veda , the only sources for the post Rig Vedic history of India are the later three
Vedas
-
Yajur ,
Sama
& Atharva Veda . There is no concrete proof of the timelines of these three Vedas. Commonly accepted chronology is that Yajur Veda and Sama Veda, composed perhaps between 1400 BC and 1100 BC, are older than Atharva Veda which was composed perhaps between 1100 and 900 BC. The present forms of all the four Vedas didn't take place for sure within these time frames. It had taken several more centuries before they would have arrived to the present forms. Yajur Veda has reference to fully developed caste systems, considerable advances in art, handicrafts, trade and occupation, which are evidently of much later date of early first millennium.
The four Vedas Rig, Yajur, Sama and Atharva are the earliest literatures of mankind. They also form the basis of the way
of life that gradually metamorphosed into a religion, commonly and also erroneously at times, known as Hinduism. At their core the four Vedas are just books of knowledge and enlightenment as realized by the learned people of the time and presented in forms of manuals for rituals - mostly worship of natural forces. Rig Veda is the Knowledge of Recited Praise, Yajur Veda the Knowledge of Sacrifice, Sama Veda the Knowledge of Chanted Hymns and Atharva Veda the Knowledge of Prayers, Charms and Spells. Apart from Yajur Veda, all the other three were composed as perfect metrical verses. Many verses of Rig Veda are reused in various forms in all the other three later Vedas. Almost all the ancient civilizations were worshipers of nature and natural forces. So it's nothing extraordinary or exceptional for the Indians to worship fire, water, sky, wind and earth - the five basic natural forces.
At the dawn of civilization, when the human race was still under the spell of the powers and mysteries of the nature, it's very natural that most of her rituals would be centered around pleasing these mysterious forces. Metaphorically each of these forces was given a shape and form of super humans or Gods. All the knowledge, be it about philosophy or environment or mathematics or governance were packaged into the widely respected ritual manuals. Though the Vedas are regarded as religious books, still they have wealth of valuable information and knowledge and tremendous literary value. None other religious books in any other religion has such great value beyond the dogmatic significance. Most of the content in Vedas are relevant even now. That's precisely what makes the Vedas so unique. Most importantly the history of ancient India is impossible to construct without the Vedas.
Yajur Veda Two versions of the Yajur Veda, Shukla (White) and Krishna (Black), have remained till date in various
recensions or Sakhas or theological schools specialized in learning various Vedic texts.
It's quite fascinating to know that some 3000 years ago Indians were equally concerned about the harmony between man and nature. Yajur Veda speaks about being "in accordance with the earth". It stresses about an all expanding growth of mankind "spreading with a hundred branches" in absolute harmony with the nature. It's very obvious that the crisis of natural resources, that we see today, shouldn't have been a matter of concern some 3000 years ago, when the population was sparse and resources plenty. When the people were settling down in newer places across India they were cutting down forests, which were just everywhere, to setup habitats. But still some where in their mind they did have this concern about the vices of exploiting the natural resources. It's indeed quite incredible to find that all the thoughts that we see today towards eco-friendliness, preserving forests and any natural resources and the stress on a greener way of living did come to the minds of our ancestors. These thoughts were considered so important that they were included in the religious manuals to be reminded to everyone during the practice of rituals. Shukla Yajur Veda: 5.43 dyaammaa lekheerantarikshammaa himseeh prithivyaa sambhava | ayam hi tvaa svadhitistetijaanah praninaaya mahate saubhaagaaya | atastvandeva vanaspate shatavalsho viroha sahasravalshaa vi vayam ruhema | Graze not the sky. Harm not mid-air. Be in accordance with the earth. For this well-sharpened axe hath led thee forth to great felicity. Hence, with a hundred branches, God, Lord of the Forest, grow thou up. May we grow spreading with a hundred branches. The following verses from Shukla Yajur Veda mention the numbers upto ten raised to the power of 12 in steps
of
powers of 10, namely
ayuta
(10 raised to the power
4, or 10K ),
niyuta
(100K ),
prayuta
(1million ),
arbuda
(10 million ),
nyarbuda
(100 million ),
samudra
(1billion ),
madhya
(10 billion ),
anta
100 billion ) and
parardha
(1trillion ).
Shukla Yajur Veda: 17.2 imaa me'agna'ishtakaa dhenavah santvekaa cha dasha cha dasha cha shatancha shatancha sahasrancha sahasranchaayutanchaayutancha niyutancha niyutancha prayutanchaarbudancha nyarbudancha samudrashcha madhyanchaantashcha paraadheshchaitaa me'agna'ishtakaa dhenavah santvamutraamushmilloke O Agni, may these bricks be mine own milch kine: one, and ten, and ten tens - a hundred,
and ten hundreds - a thousand, and ten thousand - a myriad, and a hundred thousand, and a million, and a hundred millions, and an ocean middle and end, and a hundred thousand millions, and a billion. May these bricks be mine own milch-kine in yonder world and in this world. A similar list is available in
Taittiriiya
Samhita of Krişhņa Yajur Veda (4.4.11 and 7.2.20),
Maitrāyaņi
Samhita 2.8.12,
Kathaka
Samhita (17.10) etc. The Atharvaveda Samhita (6.25.1 thru 6.25.3, 7.4.1) specially emphasizes the common relationship between one and ten, three and thirty, five and fifty, nine and ninety, clearly indicating that the persons of the Vedic age had a good grasp of the basics of decimal system for positive integers.
The number four three two (four hundred and thirty two) million occurring frequently in Sanskrit works occurs in Atharva Veda (8.3.21). Yajur Veda also has the first reference to numeric infinity ( purna
or fullness) stating that if you subtract
purna from
purna
you're still left with
purna . It's quite a unique development in the field of science and mathematics on the part of the Indians compared to their contemporaries. At the same time it's quite confusing to learn that the same people, who had such in depth knowledge about mathematics lacked the knowledge of technology and engineering. The people of Indus Valley Civilization might not have known such level of mathematics, but they were masters in technology of town planning, navigation, ship building and many others. Sama Veda Sama Veda is the first book of songs known to mankind. It forms the earliest
foundation of Indian Classical Music . It also sets the foremost legacy of using songs as a form of worship, which over the ages has been proved to be the most popular form of worship in all religions. Music and sound not only play an important role in spirituality, but also in our normal lives. Sama Veda uses the sound, lyrics and music in a wonderful way to create the right aura and ambiance for spirituality and divinity. The text for the songs of Sama Veda are taken mainly from Rig Veda. The original Rig Vedic verses are altered a bit to fit into lyrical forms of Sama Veda. Many syllables are further modified and even added, where ever needed, to suit singing. Even a notation is also followed, though it is textually represented much later when the Vedic texts are first written. This is no doubt the first instance of notated music in the world. The text of Sama Veda, without modification and additions of syllables, is known as the Sama Veda Samhita. The song book has two variants - Gramagya, containing songs meant for singing (geya) in villages (grama) , & Aranyageya, containing songs meant for singing in the forest (aranya). Sama Veda (Samhita): 4.9.2.7 namah sakhibhyah poorvasadbhyo namah saakannishebhyah | yunje vaacham shatapadeem || yunje vaacham shatapadeem gaaye sahasravarttani | gaayatram traishtubham jagat || gaayatram traishtubham jagadvishvaa rupaani sambhritaa | devaa okaamsi chaktrire || Praise to the friends who sit in front! to those seated together, praise I use the hundred-footed speech speech. I use the hundred-footed speech, I sing what hath a thousand paths, Gayatra, Trishtup, Jagat hymn. Gayatra, Trishtup, Jagat hymn,the forms united and complete, Have the Gods made familiar friends. Atharva Veda Atharva Veda, the last of the four Vedas, is often criticized for dealing with super naturals. But philosophically it's perhaps much more deeper than the other three Vedas. It, no doubt, deals with topics more complex in nature.
It's the first Vedas that speaks about medicine and physiology. The first book of Atharva Veda speaks of the following: Hymn 2: A charm against dysentery Hymn 3: A charm against constipation and suppression of urine Hymn 4: To the waters, for the prosperity of cattle Hymn 5: To the waters, for strength and power Hymn 6: To the waters, for health and wealth Hymn 11: A charm to be used at child-birth Hymn 22: A charm against jaundice Hymn 23: A charm against leprosy Hymn 24: A charm against leprosy Hymn 25: A prayer to fever, as a charm against his attacks Hymn 26: A charm to obtain invisibility The following verses speak about the importance of Sabha and Samiti, the two popular forms of meetings during the Vedic Age. It's again an early example of argumentativeness of the Indians. The main purpose of these meetings was to discuss things of relevance openly in a common forum. The importance of such meetings is great in the proper governance of a country. It's clear from this verse that these meetings were taken quite seriously by the people. It's being pointed out that everyone should be fair in their words and every man should respect every other man in these meetings. Atharva Veda: 7.12.1 sabhaa cha maa samitishchaavataam prajaapaterduhitarau sanvidaane | yenaa samgachchhaa upa maa sa shikshaanchaaru vadaani pitarah sangateshu || In concord may Prajapati's two daughters, Gathering and Assembly, both protect me. May every man I meet respect and aid me. Fair be my words, O Fathers, at the meetings. The following verse speaks about atoms as the smallest unit of any object. Atharva Veda: 12.1.26 shilaa bhumirashmaa paamsu saa bhumih samdhrita dhrita | tasyai hiranyavakshase prithivyaa akaram namah || Rock earth, and stone, and dust, this Earth is held together, firmly bound. To this gold-breasted Prithivī mine adoration have I paid.
Here 'atoms' ( P āṃ su ) are described forming the stone, the stones agglutinating to form the rocks and the rocks held together to form the Earth. This is quite a unique realization made by the Indians some 3000 years back much before the concepts of atoms and molecules in modern science came into existence. Most importantly Atharva Veda refers to Iron as a metal for the first time, thus heralding the start of the Iron Age
and the end of Bronze Age sometime around 1100BC. Atharva Veda: 11.3.5, 6, 7 ashvaa kanaa gaavastandulaa mashakaastushaah ||5|| kabru faleekaranaah sharo'bhram ||6|| shyaamamayo'sya maamsaani lohitamasya lohitam
|| 7|| Horses are the grains, oxen the winnowed ricegrains, gnats the husks. (5) Kabru is the husked grain, the rain cloud is the reed. (6) Grey iron is its flesh, copper its blood. (7) The above hymn is in glorification of Odana or the boiled rice, a staple diet for most Indians even now. It glorifies
Odana metaphorically in many ways by saying that Brihaspati is its head, Brahma the mouth, Heaven and Earth are the ears, the Sun and Moon are the eyes, the seven Rishis are the vital airs inhaled and exhaled, and so on. Atharva Veda mentions the Kuru King Parikshita. The
Kuru
kingdom, or the confederation of tribes, would have been an important one in northern India around 1100 BC.
The first reference of
Anga
is found in the Atharva Veda
along with the
Magadha
(referred to as Kikata in Rig Veda),
Gandhara
(present day Kandahar region in Afghanistan) and
Mujavat
(perhaps an ancient non Aryan settlement beyond the Himavat, the Himalayas, and the Hindukush in the Pamir region), apparently as lands of despised people.
Champa, capital of Anga was one of the biggest cities and ports in Ancient India with trade links with far off places like Thailand (perhaps referred to as the mythical Suvarnabhumi) and Vietnam.
Chedi , mentioned in Rig Veda, was also another important kingdom. All of these early kingdoms later became
Mahajanapadas , or Great Kingdoms, over the next few centuries. Avesta Perhaps the most important thing contemporary to Atharva Veda is Gatha, the earliest Zoroastrian text, believed to be composed by Prophet Zarathushtra Himself. Like the Vedas the timeline of Gatha too is shrouded in mystery. The actual dating of Zarathushtra and his first sermons in the form of Gatha is a matter of debate and controversy. Here also we'll stick to one particular view point that appears more logical than the others. We'll consider 1100 BC as the timeline of Atharva Veda, Zarathushtra and Gatha. Gatha is a very important part of the Zoroastrian scripture known as Yasna. It's a collection of highly philosophic and profound hymns considered most sacred by the Zoroastrians. It's like the Bhagavat Gita that's inserted in Mahabharata and forms the crux of Hindu spirituality and philosophy.
First let's take a look into the language of Gatha. The Zoroastrian scriptures are called Avesta and the language Avestan. The language of Gatha is an early form of Avestan.
Following is a verse from the second hymn of Gatha. It's presented in Devanagari script, transliterated by Jatindra Mohan Chatterji. Gatha 2, Yasna 29.2 Now let's see the Rig Vedic translation of the verse. It will show how close the two languages - Gathan Avesta (Av.) and Rig Vedic Sanskrit (Skt.) - are. Each and every word in Gatha has a very close Rig Vedic cognate. The cognates sound so similar that entire texts in Gatha can be translated to Rig Vedic Sanskrit by simply transliterating each word.
Avestan
Rig Vedic Adâ tashâ gêush peresat ashem
Ada tasa goh aprisat asham
Kathâ tôi gavôi ratush |
Katha te gave ratus | Hyat hîm dâtâ kshayañtô
hadâ
Yah him
dhata
kshayat sada Vâstrâ gaodâyô thwakshô |
Vastra godhah tvakshah | kêm hôi ushtâ ahurem
Kam asya
ushatha
asuram
Yê dregvôdebîsh aêshemem vâdâyôit ||
Yah drugvadbhi ishmam vadhayayet || Skt.
tasa , Creator - related to the root
tvaksh
and Av.
thwaksh
meaning creation Skt.
go
and
gava , cow, cattle - used here in the sense of people, signifying the world.;
godha
is used in the sense of sustainer (coming from Skt. root
dha ) of the world ( go ) Av.
asha, arsh, eresh, arta
come from Skt.
rita
meaning divine law, truth in general, righteousness; Skt. rita -->
Av . arta --> arsha --> asha ; Like the RV
rita
the Avestan
asha
is also a very important concept;
ratu , a related word, is used in the sense of Prophet, apostle, someone who stands for righteousness and truth Skt.
vastra , coming from root
vas
meaning to remain, to live, to shine, is used in the sense of active Skt.
kshayat , powerful, dominant - comes from root
kshi Skt.
asura
and Av.
ahura
- God Skt. and Av.
dru , meaning enemy -
drugvadbhi
comes from
dru , used in the sense of wicked. Then the Creator of the world asked Asha, "Where is thy Prophet for the world who, capable, world-forester and vigorous, would sustain her always? Whom do you intend as her Lord, as one who can thwart the violence of the wicked?"
-- Translated by Jatindra Mohan Chatterji, 1967 Upon this the Creator of the Kine (the holy herds) asked of Righteousness: How (was) thy guardian for the Kine (appointed) by thee when, as having power (over all her fate), ye made her? (In what manner did ye secure) for her, together with pasture, a cattle-chief who was both skilled and likewise energetic? Whom did ye select as her (life's) master who might hurl back the fury of the wicked? -- Translated by L. H. Mills, 1898 Then the Ox-Creator asked of the Right: "Hast thou a judge for the Ox, that ye may be able to appoint him zealous tendance as well as fodder? Whom do ye will to be his lord, who may drive off violence together with the followers of the Lie?"
-- Translated by C Bartholomae Let's see another hymn from Gatha. This is from Yasna 28.8. Yasna 28.8 Avestan
Rig Vedic Vahishtem thwâ vahishtâ ýêm
Vasishtham tvâm Vasishthah ayam Ashâ vahishtâ hazaoshem |
Ashâya Vasishthâya sujoshâm | Ahurem ýâsâ vâunush
Asura yâse vanvânah Narôi Ferashaoshtrâi maibyâ câ |
Nare Prishoshtrâya mahyam cha | Yaêibyas câ ît rånghanghôi
Yemyah ca rasasi Vîspâi ýavê vanghêush mananghô ||
Vishvaya yavaya vasoh manasah || Skt.
Vasishtha
& Av,
Vahishta , means most excellent, the superlative of Skt.
vasu
& Av.
vohu
- come from the Skt. root
vas , meaning to shine, to grow bright; The Persian
behest , meaning heaven and the English best
come from Av.
vahishta ; Vasishtha is a composer of RV and very famous personality in Hinduism;
Skt.
sujosham , Av.
hazaoshem
come from the Skt. root
jush
and Av.
zaosha , meaning to be delighted, enjoy, love, cherish - used in the sense of divine love and enjoying divine delight -
I, the best, will enjoy You, the best, with Asha, the best Skt.
vanvana , meaning loving - comes from root
van , akin to Eng. win and Lat. venus; winning by physical means of hurting and injuring is transformed into winning by means of love; another example of simplistic physical meanings getting transformed into something more profound philosophic; more such cases discussed
here Skt.
rarasi , meaning bestowing - comes from root
ra This one (myself), being at his best (Purity), would realize You, the best (Deity), with Rectitude, the best (faculty). I, beloving, would worship Ahura, for manly Frashoshtra, and for me, as well as for those, to whom You consign Conscience, for all time. -- Chatterji The best I ask of Thee, O Best, Ahura (Lord) of one will with the Best Asha, desiring (it) for the hero Frashaostra and for those (others) to whom thou wilt give (it), (the best gift) of Good Mind through all time. -- Mills The similarities in the languages indeed mean that the composers of Gatha and those of Rig Veda were very closely associated. In the
Aryan Trail
we've mentioned that a group of Indo Aryans stayed back in Central Asia and Afghanistan while the others entered India. For a very long time the Indo Aryans of India and Afghanistan had a very good relation, practiced almost the same religion and followed the same tradition. Around the timeline of Atharva Veda there seems to be an intellectual conflict between two groups of Aryans that leads to their separation. One group continues to stay in Afghanistan and very soon comes in close contact with the Iranian peoples coming from the steppes (Timber Grave Culture) and settling in various parts of Iran. We may call this group of people proto Avestan as their language gradually moves away from the Rig Vedic Sanskrit and takes the shape of Avesta. Zarathushtra, one of them, eventually founds the Zoroastrian religion. As the Avestans stay close to the Iranians - their kins, being members of the same Indo Iranian peoples - their language starts picking up more Iranian components.
It's not a surprise that Avestan, despite the strong Rig Vedic connection, is classified as an Iranian language. The other group of Indo Aryans, who separates from the proto Avestan peoples, move towards India and stay connected to the culture and religion of the Aryans of India.
Now if we assume that the proto Avestan peoples stayed in Central Asia and Afghanistan for a long time then we should expect the reference to places from this region in their texts. In fact they are better than the Rig Vedic peoples in this respect. The first chapter of Vendidad, a later Avestan text, is about sixteen perfect lands created by Ahur Mazda, the Highest God of the Zoroastrians.
The Vendidad starts with: Ahura Mazda spake unto Spitama Zarathushtra, saying: "I have made every land dear (to its people), even though it had no charms whatever in it: had I not made every land dear (to its people), even though it had no charms whatever in it, then the whole living world would have invaded the Airyana Vaeja." It continues: Asanghãmca shôithranãmca vahishtem frâthweresem azem ýô Ahurô Mazdå The best ( vahishtem ) lands
and countries
which I, Ahura Mazda, created ( frâthweresem,
from the Av. root
thwaksh ) Then it gives the list of the sixteen best Aryan countries: the Airyana Vaeja
the plain which the Sughdhas inhabit,
gâum ýim Sukhdhô-shayanem -
modern Sughd Province in Tajikistan and ancient Sogdiana the strong, holy Mouru,
M ôurum sûrem ashavane -
ancient Margiana, areas around modern day Mary/Merv in Turkmenistan. Mouru may be a cognate of Skt. maru meaning desert and also mountain. the beautiful Bakhdhi with high-lifted banner,
B âxdhîm srîrãm eredhwô-drafshãm -
Balkh in Afghanistan and ancient Bactria, Skt. Vahlika Nisaya, that lies between the Mouru and Bakhdhi,
N isâim ýim añtare Môurumca Bâxdhîmca -
as mentioned, it's a place between Merv & Balkh. the house-deserting Haroyu,
H arôyûm ýim vish-harezanem -
area around Herat in Afghanistan, Skt. Sarayu, Persian Harirud River. Vaekereta, of the evil shadows,
V aêkeretem ýim dûzhakô- sayanem -
probably some place in north east Iran. Urva of the rich pastures,
U rvãm pouru-vâstrãm -
area around Hamum Lake in Iran Khnenta which the Vehrkanas inhabit,
X neñtem ýim Vehrkânô- shayanem -
Gorgan in Iran, Skt. Vrika the beautiful Harahvaiti,
H arahvaitîm srîrãm -
Vedic Saraswati, modern Arghandab, Greek Arachosia, a tributary of Helmand. the bright, glorious Haetumant,
H aêtumañtem raêvañtem hvarenanguhañtem -
Helmand River in Afghanistan. Though Arghandab matches etymologically with Saraswati, but Helmand basin is generally identified with Saraswati. Ragha of the three races,
R akhãm thrizañtûm -
modern Rai, south of Tehran the strong, holy Chakhra,
C axrem sûrem ashavanem -
a place by the name Carx in the ancient Khorasan in Central Asia (Northern Iran) the four-cornered Varena,
V arenem ýim cathru-gaoshem -
Bannu, Skt. Varnu the Seven Rivers,
H apta Heñdu -
Skt. Sapta Sindhu or the land of the Seven Rivers, that's the Punjab. the land by the sources of the Rangha, where people live who have no chiefs,
upa aodhaêshu Ranghayå ýô asârô aiwyâxshayeiñti -
Rangha or Rasa,
a mythical river in Rig Veda with strong Indo European connections,
may be
one of the unexplored or lesser explored northern tributaries of Indus in Hindukush region. Ahura Mazda is the Supreme God of the Zoroastrians and Zarathushtra is His Prophet. Av.
Ahura
is akin to Skt. Asura , which, we've seen in
Aryan Trail , means both God and demon in Rig Veda. Mazda is akin to Skt.
medha , which means intellect. So Ahura Mazda stands for divine intellect. Opposite to Ahura Mazda is the devil Angra Mainyu. Each of the sixteen verses that define the sixteen holy lands of the Aryans end with a reference to the devil,
'Thereupon came Angra Mainyu, who is all death, and he counter-created Winter, a work of the Daevas'. Av. Mainyu is surely a cognate of Skt.
manu , mind and Angra may refer to the Rig Vedic Angirasa - here also Av. Angra and Skt. Angirasa seem to be cognates. This is the clue to the conflict between the two groups of Aryans in Afghanistan. This conflict finally leds to the separation of the two. We've argued in the
Aryan Trail
that the Dasa peoples, the first lot of Indo Aryans to arrive in Central Asia in BMAC around 1900 BC, used to call their Gods Asura. The Rig Vedic Aryans, the later lot of Aryans appearing in BMAC around 1700 BC, first fought with the Dasa peoples and later came to a truce. The term Asura meaning demon and then being elevated to the status of God may be an indication of the animosity and eventual truce between the two groups of Aryans. The word Asura means supreme spirit and in Rig Veda is generally said of Varuna, one of the oldest Indo European Gods. We've seen in many discussions that Varuna is the upholder of truth and law ( satyam-ritam ); He stands for wisdom and discernment ( putadaksham ); He stands for perfected intellect ( dhiyam ghritachim ). So the Avestan Ahura Mazda (Skt.
asura medha ), which stands for divine intellect and is associated with Asha (Skt.
rita),
is very likely none other than Varuna.
Varuna being the oldest God the cult of Varuna worship can be very well called the path leading to the elders, the pitris , or
pitriyana . Both Rig Veda and Atharva Veda mention
Pitriyana .
Though Varuna is an older God still Indra seems to have more authority among the Rig Vedic Aryans. He is the chief of all the deities,
deva . Like the epithet
asura,
which is
associated with Varuna,
deva
is associated with Indra. So the cult of Indra worship may be called
devayana . We've seen that Indra is the power of mind and intellect, impelled by thoughts and driven by the illumined thinker, dhiyeshita viprajuta.
When the intellect, the thought is further perfected and enriched we see the power of profound knowledge, wisdom and consciousness that's represented by Varuna. But going by the double meaning in Rig Veda Indra is always represented by a physical strength that destroys and kills enemies.
He stands for generus heroism. In contrast Varuna is the more lofty and spiritual one. The following verse from Rig Veda depicts the popular image of Indra and Varuna: Vṛtrāṇyanyaḥ samitheṣu jighnate vratānyanyo abhi rakṣate sadā |
Havāmahe vāṃ vṛṣaṇā suvṛktibhir asme indrāvaruṇaā śarma yachatam ||
7.83.9 One of you Twain destroys the Vṛtras in the fight, the Other evermore maintains his holy Laws. We call on you, ye Mighty, with our hymns of praise. Vouchsafe us your protection, Indra-Varuṇa. We can very well assume that going by the popular images of Indra and Varuna their worshipers - the
devayanists and the
pitriyanists
- would surely be two different lots. There are references to
devayana
and
pitriyana
in Rig Veda and Atharva Veda. Following is one instance from Atharva Veda. Anrina asmin anrinah parasmin tritiye loke anrinah syama | Ye devayanah pitriyanah ca loka sarvan patho anrina a kshiyema || 6.117.3 (Atharva Veda) May we be free in this world and that yonder, in the third
world may we be unindebted. May we, debt-free, abide in all the pathways - the
devayana
and
pitriyana . It's not unlikely that these two groups of people - the
devayanists
and
pitriyanists , the worshipers of Indra and Varuna - would have intellectual conflicts between them because at a very low level their Gods are so very different - one stands for lofty spirituality and the other for heroism. With passage of time the deeper meanings and inner significances of Indra and Varuna might have been superseded by the simplistic and more popular aspects. The breakup of the two groups of Aryans in Afghanistan might have been due to this conflict. The proto Avestan group are surely the
pitriyanists , the worshipers of Varuna, Who eventually becomes Ahura Mazda. Now let's again shift our focus to Atharva Veda. The term
atharvan
is derived from an obsolete word
athar , which means fire. Atharvan literally means fire priests and Atharva Veda is the book of hymns of the Fire Priests, the Atharvans. In Avestan too
atar
means fire. The Avestan cognate for Atharvan is Athravan and Zarathushtra, the founder of Zoroastrianism, Himself is an Athravan. He is said to be a descendant of someone called Spitama. As the Avesta and Zarathushtra are so closely associated with the Fire Priests Atharvan (and in turn the Atharva Veda) let's find out the identity of Spitama and his connection to the Atharvans. Gopatha Brahmana, a later Vedic text refers to Atharva Veda as Bhrigu Angirasi Samhita, the
samhita
or the book written by Bhrigu and Angiras. But now only Angiras is associated with the Atharva Veda. Both Bhrigu and Angiras are no doubt fire priests. The term Bhrigu and Angiras refer to the individuals Bhrigu and Angiras and also to the peoples, the descendants or the followers of the Bhrigu and Angiras. The word
angiras
comes from the root
ang
or ag
and directly means fire.
Bhrigu
comes from the root
bhraj,
which means to shine, sparkle and glitter, and the mythical Bhrigu race is closely connected with fire in Rig Veda. The name Spitama, the ancestor of Zrathushtra, seems to be a cognate of
svetatama , meaning brightest and surely an epithet for Bhrigu. So it may not be illogical to deduce that Zarthushtra Himself is one of the Bhrigu
antharvans , having descended from Spitama, also a Bhrigu atharvan. So now we know that the Avestan peoples are
pitriyanists , worshipers of Varuna, their Ahura Mazda, while the other group of Aryans are
devayanists . We also know that Zarathushtra descends from Spitama, one of the Bhrigu atharvans . If we correlate these two points we can say that the Bhrigus, the ancestors of the Avestans, are pitriyanists
and the Angirasas
devayanists . We can also infer that the aforementioned two conflicting groups of Aryan peoples in Afghanistan were the Bhrigus and the Angirasas, who eventually break up from each other around the time frame of Atharva Veda - the Angirasas of India are then associated with the Atharva Veda in India and the Bhrigus with the Avesta in Afghanistan. So the Bhrigu-Angirasa Samhita mentioned in Gopatha Brahmana may refer to the parallel development of Atharva Veda and Avesta by the Angirasas and Bhrigus. It also finds credence in Angirasa being referred to in Avesta as a devil, Angra Mainyu, in contrast to Bhrigu, Spitama. Around the World Early Vedic Age is contemporary to 18-20th dynasties of New Kingdom of Egyptian Empire. Around 1100 BC
Greek City States ,
Troy
being one of the most important ones, came to a spectacular end. The
Homeric Trojan War
is also believed to have occurred sometime in the 12th century BC. In west Asia the
Kassites
have been ruling in
Babylon
since 16th century BC. Their rule came to an end in 1155 BC when it fell to
Elam
(Iran). Finally after five centuries Babylon was conquered back by native ruler
Nebuchandrezzar I
in 1125 from the Kassites. Around the same the
Hittites
(Turkey) were declining and the
Assyrians
becoming more and more powerful. The first Assyrian Empire was established around the same time. Also Israel was getting formed. Reference and Useful Links Rig Veda
Devanagari Book
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10 English Translation S hukla (White) Yajur Veda :
Devanagari
English Translation Krishna (Black) Yajur Veda Taitiriya Samhita:
Devanagari
English Translation Sama Veda :
Devanagari
English Translation Atharva Veda :
Devanagari
English Translation Wikipedia Discovery of India Argumentative Indian
Indian History Timeline
|
Sudipto's Home
Posted by
Sudipto Das
at
7:49 AM
0
comments
Newer Posts
Older Posts
Home
Subscribe to:
Posts (Atom)
Useful Links
Misc.
Useful Links: General
Census
CIA: India Facts
CIA: Statistics
Districts of India
Election Commission
Human Development Indicators
India One Stop
Maps
National Portal
States of India
UN Development Program
UNESCO India
UNICEF
Useful Links: Indology
Ancient Indian Literature
culturalindia.net
Encyclopedia of Indian Culture
hinduwisdom.info
History Maps
Indian History Timeline
UNECSO Memory of World List
World Heritage Sites
Useful Links: Economy
Asian Development Bank
Budget
Consumer Market
CSO: Statistics
Economic Census
GDP Data
Latest GDP of India
NASSCOM
Planning Commission
Rural Development Institute
Swaminomics
World Bank
Search indigyan
Search entire web
Columns
Gurucharan Das
Shashi Tharoor
Swaminathan S. Anklesaria Aiyar
Blog Archive
►
2015
(1)
►
January
(1)
▼
2011
(17)
▼
April
(2)
Rig Veda: Chariot, Constellations & Pole Star
India in 1100 BC: Atharva Veda & Iranian Avesta
►
March
(15)
►
2009
(9)
►
December
(1)
►
August
(1)
►
June
(1)
►
March
(1)
►
February
(2)
►
January
(3)
►
2008
(23)
►
December
(5)
►
November
(4)
►
October
(1)
►
September
(3)
►
July
(5)
►
June
(1)
►
May
(4)
Blogs by Topic
Art and Culture
Art and Culture - Books
Art and Culture - Music
Foundations of Growth
Foundations of Growth - Health
General
Gurucharan Das
Leisure and Passion
Leisure and Passion - Travel
People and Prosperity
People and Prosperity - Economy
People and Prosperity - People
People and Prosperity - Politics
Present and Past
Present and Past - Current Affairs
Present and Past - History
Religion and Festivals
Swapan Dasgupta
The Times of India - Columns
Loading...
NDTV National News
Loading...
The Times of India - Nation
Loading...
The Economic Times - Economy
Loading...
The Economic Times - Markets
Loading...
Gallup Surveys
Loading...
National Anthem
Loading...
Vande Mataram
Loading...
Sare Jahan Se Achchha
Loading...
About Me
Sudipto Das
View my complete profile