Arzu: July 2007
skip to main
|
skip to sidebar
Arzu
Desires... my thoughts and desires.
Tuesday, July 24, 2007
Death Ceremony
Antyesthi (Death rites) The rishis and Dharma Sutras were at a consensus regarding the final goal of life, which they enjoined in the four ashrams - stages of life. The stalwart poet Kalidas in his classic, Raghuvansha (1-8) stipulates: "Shaishave abhyastavidyănăm yauvane vishayaishinăm; Vărdhakye munivruttinăm yogenănte tanutyajăm." "One studies during childhood (brahmacharya ashram), fulfills his desires during youth (gruhastha ashram), renounces worldly activity for silent contemplation during old age (vanprastha ashram) and then endeavors for God-realisation, after which he leaves his body." Antyeshti is the final samskara in a Hindu's life. Yajur Veda regards vivaha as the sixteenth samskara while Rig Veda considers antyeshti. Though performed after the death of a person by his relatives, it is of importance because the value of the next world is higher than that of the present. The final rituals are performed with meticulous care with the help of Brahmin priests. The first ritual after death is to place a few tulsi leaves and a few drops of water in the mouth of the dead person. It is then laid on the floor which has been purified by applying the sacred cowdung. The old clothes are removed and the body is bathed with sanctified water. The body is then covered with one piece of a new, unbleached, uncut cloth (kafan). It is then laid on a bier (nanami) made of bamboo canes tied with jute strings. The underlying message in removing the old clothes can be gleaned from a Sanskrit verse: "Dhanăni bhumau pashavashcha goshthe, Nări gruhadware sakhă smashăne, Dehashchităyăm paraloka mărge, Dharmănugo gachhati jiva ekaha." "Wealth will remain buried, cattle will remain in the pen, (his) wife will accompany (him) to the doorway, friends will accompany him to the crematorium, the body will come till the funeral pyre, but on the path to the next world, the jiva goes alone (with his karmas)." In the Swaminarayan Sampraday there is a special ritual. Where possible the sadhus are called, who then do puja of the deceased with vermilion powder. A new kanthi and flower garlands are placed around the neck. The sadhus and the nearest relatives then do arti, followed by pradakshina. Everyone present chants the Swaminarayan mantra. The sadhus then leave after delivering a consolatory This rite performed by sadhus remains unique to the Swaminarayan Sampraday. It infuses spiritual strength and thus considerably offsets the grief and hurt suffered by the relatives of the deceased. The family members then take the body to the cremation pyre, all the while chanting the Lord's name. 'Ram bolo bhai Ram' is the most commonly uttered phrase. In Bengal it is 'Hari bol, Hari bol.' In the Swaminarayan Sampradaya the Swaminarayan dhun is chanted. After the body is laid on the funeral pyre, ghee is poured over it and the fire kindled by the nearest relative. Sesame seeds are also sprinkled onto the fire as a form of puja. The latter two steps are obviously not possible where an electric kiln is used for cremation. The fire lighted in the vivaha ceremony was later, by tradition, taken to the house and kept kindled in an altar throughout life. This signified that married life was to be lived through life's vicissitudes, together. When one of the spouse died, the agni (fire) was taken in a crucible or pot to the crematorium, where it was used to light the pyre. This symbolized the end of vivaha and the beginning of agni (antyeshti) samskara. The rituals and observances which then follow vary in different groups and parts of Gujarat. By cremation, the body's five basic components - known as panch bhuts - prithvi (earth), jal (water), tej (fire), vayu (wind) and akash (space) are returned to those of the universe, thus maintaining the cosmic equilibrium. All the samskaras are spiritually oriented. However, some directly benefit the environment in one way or another. Scientists in the past decade have begun to realize this. They have pointed out that cremation, for example, is the best, most effective and environmentally prudent method for disposing of the dead. Burial leads to enormous problems of space and groundwater contamination. Corpses infected with plague and slow virus diseases infect vectors which directly feed on them. This ultimately affects humans. Recently in England, the wisdom of cremating even diseased cattle has been realized, especially those afflicted with mad cow disease. Asthi Sanchayan After cremation, the ashes and residual bones (asthi) are collected in an urn. In some communities it is customary to wash them with milk and sanctified water. The urn is then taken to a sacred river such as Ganga, Narmada or to the sacred confluence of the three rivers Ganga, Yamuna and Saraswati in Allahabad, known as the Triveni Sangam. The Swaminarayan devotees also sprinkle the ashes in the sacred river Ghela, in Gadhada and the river Gondali in Gondal. During the ritual a Brahmin priest utters Vedic mantras and performs the final rites for the salvation of the deceased. The ashes are then sprinkled into the river. Sutak (Ashauch) - Impurity This is a period of ten to thirteen days during which the nearest family members do not perform their personal daily religious rituals such as puja, arti and thal. Their personal puja is given to a friend to perform on their behalf. The family members can visit the mandir for darshan. During this period, religious scriptures and devotional songs are recited and sung respectively, for the attainment of Akshardham by the deceased. On either the eleventh, twelfth or thirteenth day, the relatives offer thal (food) to the Lord in the local mandir to repay pitru (ancestral) debt. The general Hindu belief is that as soon as the soul leaves the body, it adopts
another body whose limbs grow day by day. On the tenth day after death this 'interim' body grows completely. The son of the deceased offers the pindas - food balls made from wheat flour and water - to the growing limbs, either day-to-day or all ten together on the tenth day. It is believed that, upto this day, the deceased still continues his relation with this world. Therefore the deceased is termed preta, which means one who has departed, but who has not yet reached the other world. On the eleventh day, Brahma, Vishnu, Rudra and Yama are invoked, with Vishnu as the special witness. In their presence the deceased is offered pindas. On the twelfth day the departed soul is given away to the other world, where he then resides with his forefathers. As soon as he reaches the other world he is released from his preta body. The relatives are then freed from the sutak and can then perform their daily puja. These rites are also samskaras on the soul to lead it to God. An associated rite after cremation, generally practiced in India, is for one or more male members of the deceased to shave their heads. This is rarely observed by Hindus abroad. Some communities eat only simple foods for a fixed number of days. Sajjaa In Gujarat the family members then perform the sajjaa ritual. In this, they offer a cow, a cot, utensils, food grains, a set of clothes and footwear and anything else that the deceased used to a Brahmin. The Brahmin performs a ritual and takes the objects, symbolically to send them to the deceased for his use in the next world. In the Swaminarayan Sampradaya the belief is that the atma, who is then termed akshar mukta, is received by Shriji Maharaj, Gunatitanand Swami and Pramukh Swami Maharaj and taken to Akshardham. Therefore, this akshar mukta does not need any material offerings in his next life. But if it is a family or caste tradition to perform the sajjaa, this can be done at the nearest mandir and the objects are offered to the Lord Himself. Another alternative which is becoming popular is the jivitkriya. It is the same as the sajjaa, except it is performed by a person while alive - as the name implies. During this ritual the central sentiment uttered is, "I am performing this ritual to please Bhagwan Swaminarayan and Pramukh Swami Maharaj." The jivitkriya imbues a feeling of contentment in the individual since he/she witnesses it. Conclusion Samskaras like ours have their parallels in the world's other religious denominations - baptism, confirmation, holy matrimony in Christianity; barmitzvahs, and circumcision in Judaism; navjot in Parsis; and circumcision in Islam. These have significance in their own way in the lives of the members of these religions. In the past the sixteen Hindu samskaras formed an integral part of Hindu life. Today, with the encroachment of modern living, especially in urban India, only a few of them have survived: chaul, upanayan, vivaha and antyeshti. Yet these samskaras, with their spiritual import, holistically 'samskarize' (edify) all aspects of an individual's life. Since each samskara ritual makes the individual the focus of the occasion, he/she is psychologically boosted. This strengthens the individual's self-esteem and enriches interaction with those around. The samskaras bring together family members, close relatives and friends, hence increase the cohesiveness of the family unit. Therein the unit harmonizes and strengthens the social structure. The consequence of this is a healthy society with a strong cultural identity which easily refines, boosts and perpetuates its traditional beliefs, customs, morals and values. This has been one of the key reasons for the Hindu Dharma withstanding the rigors and onslaughts of foreign incursions and upheavals through the ages. The ancient rishis and sages enjoined the sixteen samskaras for the eternal benefit of mankind through their direct experience with the Divine. They wove them as into the fabric of daily life of the Hindu. They are 'outward acts,' from pre-birth to post- death, for inward or spiritual grace. Today, the key samskara which will determine the cohesion and perpetuation of Hindu traditions anywhere in the world is vivaha, if observed sincerely with its pristine and lofty sentiments.
Posted by
Esha
at
04:59
No comments:
After marriage ceremony
Simantonayana (Hair-parting) / Khodo bharavo In Gujarati this is known as Khodo bharavo. In this, the husband parts the wife's hair. The religious significance of this samskara is to bring prosperity to the mother and long life to the unborn child. It also wards off evil influence. The hysiological significance is interesting and advanced. Sushrut (Sharirsthan, Ch.33) believed that the foetus's mind formed in the fifth month of pregnancy. Hence the mother is required to take the utmost care for delivering a healthy child. Stipulating the details, Sushrut enjoined the pregnant mother to avoid exertion of all kinds: refrain from
sleeping during the day and keeping awake at night, and also avoid fear, purgatives, phlebotomy (blood letting by slicing veins) and postponing natural excretions. (Sharirsthan Ch.21). Besides samskaras which affect the physical health of the foetus, ancient scriptures contain examples of learning samskaras imprinted on it. From the Mahabharat, we know that Arjun's son, Abhimanyu, learnt the secrets of battle strategy while in his mother's, Subhadra's, womb. The child-devotee Prahlad of the Shrimad Bhagvatam,
learnt about the glory of Lord Narayan while in his mother's, Kayadhu's, womb. Just as a foetus can grasp good spiritual samskaras from the external world, the opposite is also true. It can definitely be affected by certain undesirable habits of the mother. Today we know that smoking, alcohol, certain medications and drugs have a detrimental effect on the foetus. The Varaha Smruti prohibits eating meat during pregnancy. Therefore, the Smrutis enjoined the husband to take every possible care to preserve the physical, mental and spiritual health of his pregnant wife. The Kalavidhan prohibits him from going abroad or to war, from building a new house and bathing in the sea.
Posted by
Esha
at
04:58
No comments:
Marriage Ceremony
(i) Haridralepan On the day before the marriage, a creamy paste of turmeric and oil is smeared over the bride's body. This is known as pithi cholvi in Gujarati and haridralepan in Sanskrit. The symbolic sentiment is that if the bride is of a dark complexion, this cosmetic treatment will endow her a lighter hue. Prior to the marriage ceremony, Ganapati (Ganesh) is worshipped at the bride's home as an auspicious beginning of the rituals, since Ganapati is the deity of auspiciousness. (ii) Var Prekshan (Welcoming the bridegroom) The bridegroom is welcomed at the entrance of the bride's house or marriage hall. The bride and the bridegroom place garlands over each other under the marriage canopy (mandap). A vow is then recited, "In following my duty, in our financial matters, in fulfilling my physical thirst, I will always consult you, take your consent and act upon it." This is known as the Pratijna Svikar. (iii) Madhu Parka (Offering honey) The bride welcomes the bridegroom and gives him honey, yoghurt and ghee (clarified butter), suggesting that she will always please him with the sweetness of her behavior. There is also a sour tinge to the mixture, which symbolises the bitterness that life can sometimes bring. (iv) Pani Grahan (Proffering of the bride's hand) The parents of the bride proffer her hand to the bridegroom and request him to accept their daughter as his wife. The bridegroom accepts the bride as his wife and presents her with clothing and jewellery. (v) Vaivahik Homa (Invoking the sacred fire) The sacred fire is invoked and offerings are poured into it. Agni (fire) represents the mouth of Lord Vishnu and symbolises illumination of the mind, knowledge and happiness and Lord Vishnu serves as a divine witness.
(vi) Shilarohan (Stepping on the stone) The bride places her right foot on a stone. The bridegroom tells her to be as firm as the stone in his house so that they are able to face problems with ease. (vii) Laja Homa (Offering parched rice into sacred fire) Four offerings are made to the sacred fire. The brother of the bride places parched rice into the bride's hands, half of which is meant to fall into the bridegroom's hands. Mantras are chanted. The bride prays to Yama, the God of Death, that he grants long life, health, happiness and prosperity to the bridegroom. (viii) Saptapadi (The seven steps) The bride and the bridegroom take seven steps around the sacred fire. At each step they invoke the blessings of God. As the couple walk the seven steps they pledge the following seven vows: 1. Let us take this first step towards food and the necessities of life. 2. Let us take this second step towards strength and vigor. 3. Let us take this third step towards wealth and prosperity. 4. Let us take this fourth step towards obtaining happiness around the household. 5. Let us take this fifth step for progeny. 6. Let us take this sixth step to act according to the six seasons and time. 7. Let us take this seventh step to believe in the same religion and lifelong friendship. (ix) Agni Parikrama (Circumambulation of sacred fire) The bride and the bridegroom move around the sacred fire four times. On the first three rounds the bride leads the bridegroom and on the fourth the bridegroom leads the bride. Before each round an offering is made. This part of the ceremony is known as the mangal phera in Gujarati. (x) Saubhagya Chinha (Blessing the bride) The bridegroom blesses the bride by putting kumkum (vermillion powder) or sindur at the parting of her hair or on her forehead and by giving her a mangalsutra (sacred necklace). (xi) Surya Darshan (Looking at the sun) The bridegroom accepts the bride as his wife in the presence of the sun deity. If the marriage is performed at night, he tells her to look at the Dhruva star (star of steadfastness) and at the star of Arundhati (star of devotion). The bridegroom tells her to be firm in her love and duty, and to be devoted to him like Arundhati was to Sage Vashishtha. The bride tells the bridegroom that she will follow their example and remain devoted. (xii) Hruday Sparsh (Touching of hearts) The bridegroom and bride touch each other's hearts. The bride tells the bridegroom, "I touch thy heart unto mine. God has given thee as my husband. May thy heart be mine now. When I talk to thee, please listen to me with perfect attention." The bridegroom repeats the vow to the bride. (xiii) Annaprashan (Feeding the bridegroom) The bride feeds the bridegroom and tells him, "By feeding you this sweet food (traditionally kansar - made of wheat flour, sugar and ghee) I shall bind thy heart with the thread of truth and sincerity and love. My heart will be thine and thy heart will be mine forever." (xiv) Purnahuti (Completion of ceremony) After the final offering is made to the sacred fire, the priest blesses the bride and bridegroom. Flower petals and rice are distributed to the guests, who shower the bride and the bridegroom. With their blessings the marriage ceremony is completed. The bride and the bridegroom are no longer separate entities but an integrated personality who will share their lives in every way.
Posted by
Esha
at
04:55
No comments:
Young age ceremonies
Namkaran (Name-giving) Based on the arrangement of the constellations at birth, the child is named on a day fixed by caste tradition. In the Hindu Dharma, the child is frequently named after an avatar, deity, sacred place or river, saint, etc., as a constant reminder of the sacred values for which that name represents. Annaprashan (First feeding) Feeding the child with solid food is the next important samskara. For a son this is done in even months - the 6th, 8th, 10th or 12th months. For a daughter this is done in odd months - 5th, 7th or 9th months. The food offered is cooked rice with ghee. Some sutras advocate honey to be mixed with this. By advocating this samskara, the wise sages accomplished two important considerations. First, the child is weaned away from the mother at a proper time. Second, it warns the mother to stop breast feeding the child. For, an uninformed mother, many out of love, continue breast feeding the child, without realising that she was not doing much good to herself or the child. Chudakarma (Chaul) (Shaving of head) This samskara involves shaving the head (of a son) in the 1st, 2nd, 3rd or 5th year, or when initiating him with the janoi (Upanayan). According to Sushrut, the significance of this, together with nail cutting, is to give delight, lightness, prosperity, courage and happiness (Chikitsasthan. Ch. 24-72). Charak also voiced a similar opinion. In the Swaminarayan Sampraday, the son is first taken to Pramukh Swami Maharaj, or senior sadhus, who clip a tuft of hair. The remaining hair is shaved off shortly afterwards. A tuft of hair (shikha, chotli) is left in place at the top of the head for longevity. Sushrut points out its significance, "Inside the head, near the top, is the joint of a shira (artery) and a sandhi (critical juncture). There, in the eddy of hairs, is a vital spot called the adhipati (overlord). Any injury to this part causes sudden death" (Sharirsthan Ch. VI, 83). In the course of time, the shikha was regarded as a symbol of the Hindu Dharma and its removal came to be regarded as a grave sin (Laghu Harita IV). Karnavedh (Piercing the earlobes) The child's ear lobes are pierced either on the 12th or 16th day; or 6th, 7th or 8th month; or 1st, 3rd, 5th, 7th or 9th year. Sushrut reasoned, "The ears of a child should be pierced for protection (from diseases such as hydrocoele and hernia) and decoration (Sharirasthan Ch.16.1, Chikitsasthan Ch.19.21). One sutra says that a goldsmith should pierce the ears while Sushrut advocates a surgeon. For a boy, the right earlobe is pierced first and for a girl, the left. For boys today, this samskara is only prevalent in some states of India. Janoi/ Upnayan Sanskar / Yagnopavit sanskar
At the age of eight the son is initiated by the acharya with the sacred thread, known as janoi or yagnopavit. Amongst all the foregoing samskaras this is regarded as supreme. It is the dawn of a new life, hence dvija - twice born. The child enters studentship and a life of perfect discipline which involves brahmacharya (celibacy). In a ceremony administered by a
priest , a coir string, known as Janoy or Poonal, is hung from around a young boy's left shoulder to his right waist line for
Brahmins
and from right shoulders to left waistline by
Kshatriyas . The ceremony varies from region to community, and includes reading from the Vedas and special Mantras and Slokas. Upa means 'near.' Nayan means 'to take (him) to,' i.e. to take the son to the teacher. Like the parents, the acharya will mold the student with love and patience into a man of character. He will inculcate in him the invaluable knowledge of the Vedas. This is the second meaning of Upanayan. In the past, a boy would leave his parental home to stay at the house of his preceptor (Guru). He would then lead a life of chastity & purity, following the code of conduct laid down by his Guru. The three strings of the janoi denote the three gunas - sattva (reality), rajas (passion), and tamas (darkness). They also remind the wearer that he has to pay off the three debts he owes to the seers, ancestors and gods. The three strings are tied by a knot known as the brahmagranthi which symbolises Brahma (creator), Vishnu(sustainer) and Shiva (leveller). One important significance of wearing the janoi is that the wearer would be constantly aware of the different deities which the threads represented. Therefore, he would be vigilant prior to any action not in accordance with the Dharma Shastras. The ceremony goes through the following steps: Nyas and Ganesh Poojan - purifying the body and mind and calling upon Ganesh to remove all obstacles Kul Devta poojan - obeisance to the deity of Dharmakul, Shree Hanumanji Non-violent sacrifice - Yagna, poojan of Lord with fire (Agnidev) as a witness Wearing the sacred thread as directed by the priest. Mantra Upadesha - receiving guru mantra from the Acharya Deeksha Pradanam - Administering the 'Brahmacharya Vrata' - the vow of leading a pure life Goiro Young females (prepubescent until married) do not have similar ritual passage as young males. However, some young Hindu females, especially those from southern India, may follow annual Monsoon Austerity Ritual of Purification by not eating cooked food for one or two weeks, depending on age of child. This is known as "Goryo" or "Goriyo". Fasting Fasting is very common among most Hindus. They Fast on certain days of the week based on their belief and to appease certain deities. Most fasting Hindus abstain from eating meat and only live on fruits and milk. Some people refrain from using
edible salts
in the preparation of the meal and have it only one time on the day. There is a month called Shravan or Savan when Hindus fast for the whole month and abstain from eating any form of meat. Also they fast during the holy days like
Ganesh Chaturthi
(Chauth),
Shivaratri ,
Rama Navami
and
Navaratri . Some people view fasting as a form of penance (tapasya) or alternatively as a means to develop a close bond with the Supreme Being. The purpose for fasting (tapasya) was instituted into the religion with a twofold purpose. The first purpose was to instill a sense of discipline in the followers, since disciplined lives are believed to be most productive. The second reason was to use these fasting days as a form of 'body cleansing'. For instance, on certain fasting days, people usually eat only fruit throughout the day, followed by one meal thus leading to a healthy lifestyle. Additionally, in the early centuries when Hindus were beginning to gain identity in the religion, there was disparity among the rich and the poor (which continues to exist in cultures all over the world) and fasting was a way for 'resource sharing' and to ensure that no one was claiming more rights on scare resources like grains and other crop, merely because of their economic advantage. The Hindu religion does not require or mandate its followers to fast, it only proposes these suggestions as a way of life.
Posted by
Esha
at
04:31
No comments:
Friday, July 20, 2007
Synopsis of Ramayan
Rāma, the hero of Ramayana, is a popular deity worshiped by Hindus, the route of his wanderings being, each year, trodden by devout pilgrims. According to
Hindu
tradition, Rāma is an incarnation ( Avatar ), of the god
Vishnu , who is part of the
Hindu Trinity . The main purpose of this incarnation is to demonstrate the righteous path ( dharma ) for the life on earth. Rāma's youth Brahma, creator of the universe, could not revoke a boon he gave the demon king Ravana, as a reward for his severe penances, that he should not be slain by gods, demons, or spirits. Having been then rewarded, Ravana began with the help of his evil supporters, the
Rakshasas , to lay waste the earth and to do violence to the good, especially the
Brahmin
priests, disturbing their sacrifices. All the gods, watching this devastation, went to Brahma to find a way to deliver themselves and the earth of this evil. Brahma went to Vishnu and conveyed the anguish of the gods and requested that Vishnu incarnate on earth as a human to destroy Ravana, as Ravana had not asked for protection against humans or beasts in his wishes to Brahma. Meanwhile, the good king
Dasharatha
of
Ayodhya , who had ruled over his kingdom of
Kosala
for a long time, was beginning to become anxious about his successor, for he had no sons to take over the kingdom after him. Taking advice from his ministers and priests Dasharatha organised a Putrakameshti Yagna, a sacrifice for progeny. Vishnu decided to be born as the eldest to Dasharatha and caused a divine being to emerge from the sacrificial fire. The divine being gave Dashratha a golden vessel filled with nectar and asked him to give it to his queens. Dasharatha divided it amongst his three queens,
Kausalya, Sumitra and Kaikeyi . In due course they became pregnant and gave birth to four sons: Queen Kausalya gives birth to the eldest son,
Rama .
Bharata
is born to Queen Kaikeyi, and twins,
Lakshmana
and
Shatrughna , are born to Queen Sumitra. The boys grew up learning the scriptures and the art of bowmanship from the sage
Vasishta . One day, the sage
Vishwamitra
visited the kingdom and asked King Dasaratha to send Rama to protect him from demons who had been disturbing his sacrifices. Although very reluctant, Dasharatha agreed to send Rama and Lakshmana with Vishwamitra. As the brothers fulfilled their duties, Vishwamitra was pleased with them and bestowed upon them various celestial weapons. Towards the end of their stay with Vishwamitra, Rama chanced to pass near the kingdom of Mithila and heard that its king,
Janaka , had offered his peerless daughter,
Sita , in marriage to the man who could bend the mighty bow of god
Siva , which had been kept at Janaka's court. Rama at once was determined to accomplish the feat, which had been tried in vain by so many suitors. When he presented himself at court, Janaka was at once won over by his youth and beauty. Five thousand men drew in the mighty bow, resting upon an eight-wheeled chariot. Rama, without any apparent effort, bent it until it broke and Janaka gladly gave him his beautiful daughter. After the splendid wedding ceremonies were over, the happy pair travelled back to Ayodhya. Rāma's exile King Dasharatha began to feel weary of reigning and decided to make Rama, his eldest son and heir-apparent, the co-regent (Yuvaraja). His happy people received the announcement of his intention with delight and the whole city was in the midst of the most splendid preparations for the ceremony. Dasharatha went to discuss the celebrations with his wives. However, Queen Kaikeyi's jealousy was aroused by her evil maid
Manthara , because the son of Kausalya and not her own son Bharata, at that time absent from the city, was to be made king. She fled to an ante-chamber where Dasharatha found her in tears. To Dasharatha's concerned queries, Kaikeyi recalled that, ages ago, the old king had granted her two boons. This was as a result of a war that the king was in before his children were born. He was riding in a chariot when the wheel was about to fall off. Queen Kaikeyi was with him, and sacrificed her finger by putting it into the wheel to hold it into place, thus saving her husband's life. To show his gratitude, he offered her 2 wishes/boons. She gratefully accepted them, and told him that she had no use for them at present, and would use them when the need arose. She now demanded the fulfillment of these before she would consent to smile upon him. Dasharatha agreed and Kaikeyi revealed her demands. She required him, first, to appoint her son Bharata as co-regent and, second, to exile Rama for fourteen years to the terrible forest of Dandaka. Dasharatha was heart-broken, but had to abide by his promise. Rama, the obedient son, immediately agreed to relinquish his claim to the throne and started to leave for his exile. His faithful wife Sita and his loving brother Lakshmana also decided to go along with Rama. With Dasharatha lying grief-stricken, Rama left for the forest, followed by the lamenting people of Ayodhya. Soon after, king Dasharatha died, overcome by grief. Sita's abduction Rama, Sita and Lakshmana left behind Ayodhya and its people, crossed the river
Ganges
and went into the forest. They found an idyllic place called Chitrakuta (Chhattisgarh) to establish their hermitage. No more beautiful place could be imagined. Flowers of every kind, delicious fruits, and on every side the most pleasing prospects, together with perfect love, is stated to have made their hermitage a paradise on earth. In the forest, Rama befriended the old vulture-king,
Jatayu . Meanwhile, Bharata returned to Ayodhya and, being also devoted to Rama, became furious with Kaikeyi for her role in exiling Rama and for the death of his father. Determined to bring back Rama, he headed for the forest. When he found Rama and pleaded with him to return and assume the throne, Rama politely refused, saying that he was duty-bound to see that his father's promise was fulfilled. Reluctantly Bharata agreed to return to the kingdom, requesting that Rama give to him his sandals. Back in Ayodhya, Bharata placed Rama's sandals on the throne of Ayodhya, and ruled as Rama's proxy from a village called Nandigrama near Ayodhya, awaiting his return. He also vowed to end his own life if Rama failed to return after fourteen years. One day, the
rakshasi
Surpanakha , a sister of the demon king Ravana, chanced upon Rama's hermitage and saw the handsome Rama and became enamored. Taking the form of a beautiful young girl, she tried to seduce Rama. Rama, ever faithful to his wife Sita, did not respond and asked her to approach Lakshmana. Lakshmana too refused, stating his duty towards his brother and his sister-in-law while in exile. An infuriated Surpanakha blamed Sita for the men scorning her and charged at her in her original demonic form. However, Lakshmana saved Sita by severing Surpanakha's nose and ears. Surpanakha flew back to Ravana complaining about the young exiles. Ravana, after hearing of the beautiful Sita from Surpanakha, resolved to kill Rama in revenge and take Sita for himself. He enlisted the aid of the demon
Maricha . Maricha turned himself into a golden deer that Sita wanted for herself. She asked Rama to get it for her, but after Rama left to find it, Maricha began screaming to trick Lakshmana. Lakshmana, convinced Rama was in danger, resolved to go out and find his brother. Before leaving Sita alone in the hut, Lakshmana drew a circle in the dirt saying that Sita would be safe as long as she stayed in the circle. Ravana approached the hermitage in the guise of an old man and asked Sita to give him some food. Initially hesitant to step out of Lakshmana's circle, Sita finally stepped out to give the old man some food. At this moment Ravana grabbed Sita and fled in his airborne vehicle ( Pushpaka Vimana ). Jatayu, seeing them fly, attempted to save Sita, but Ravana engaged Jatayu in combat and chopped off the vulture's wings. On returning to the hermitage, Rama and Lakshmana found it empty and anxiously began a search. Through Jatayu, whom they found lying mortally wounded, Rama and Lakshmana learnt of Sita's fate. Jatayu breathed his last in Rama's arms. Vanara kingdom Continuing their search, they encountered the vanara king of Kishkindha,
Sugriva , and
Hanuman , one of his generals, among whom Sita had dropped from the chariot her scarf and some ornaments. Sugriva had been deposed from his kingdom by his brother,
Vali , who had also taken his wife Roma from him. Rama agreed to defeat Vali if Sugriva would assist in the search for Sita. The agreement made, Sugriva challenged Vali to a duel. While the duel was progressing, Rama shot from his bow and killed Vali. Sugriva regained his kingdom and his wife. Sugriva and Rama sent the vanara soldiers in various directions in search of Sita. However, their efforts didn't bear fruit until they met another ancient vulture,
Sampati , who was the brother of the slain Jatayu. Sampati was earthbound and deformed - his wings were burnt when he flew too close to the Sun (a story that can be considered to be similar to that of
Icarus 's). His brother, being hardier, had saved him from falling to his death. While Jatayu was the physically stronger of the two, Sampati possessed a compensating gift of vision. Sampati's vision was incredibly powerful, spanning several hundred
yojanas
and enabling him to see farther than anyone else. On hearing of Ravana's killing his brother, he readily agreed to help the vanaras. He was soon able to spot Sita in the southern direction. He could see her imprisoned in a garden of Ashoka trees on the island of Lanka, beyond the southern ocean. Hanuman in Lanka Sugriva dispatched his army to the south with his nephew Angada at the head. Hanuman went with Angada as his general. When they reached deep south, they found a great ocean stretching between them and land of Lanka. They could find no means by which to cross the ocean. Commanding his soldiers to remain where they were, Hanuman expanded his body to enormous proportions, leaped the vast expanse of water, and alighted upon a mountain Trikuta from which he could look down upon Lanka. Perceiving the city to be closely guarded, he assumed the form of a cat, and thus, unsuspected, crept through the barriers and examined the city. He found Ravana in his apartments, surrounded by beautiful women, but Sita was not among them. Continuing his search, he at last discovered her, her beauty dimmed by grief, seated under a tree in a beautiful asoka grove, guarded by hideous rakshasas with the faces of buffaloes, dogs, and swine. Assuming the form of a tiny monkey, Hanuman crept down the tree, and giving her the ring of Rama, took one from her. He offered to carry her away with him, but Sita declared that Rama must himself come to her rescue, and as proof of finding her Sita gave Hanuman a priceless jewel to take back to Rama. While they were talking together, Ravana appeared, and, after fruitless wooing, announced that if Sita did not yield herself to him in two months he would have her guards "mince her limbs with steel" for his morning repast. In his rage, Hanuman destroyed a mango grove and was captured by the rakshasa guards, and brought before Ravana. Hanuman proclaimed that he was a messenger of Rama, and demanded that Ravana restore Sita to Rama or fall victim to Rama's wrath. Furious at hearing Hanuman's words, Ravana ordered Hanuman's death. Vibhishana , Ravana's righteous brother, intervened and counseled Ravana to follow the scriptures, reminding that it was improper to execute a messenger, and instead told him to exact the appropriate punishment for Hanuman's crime. Ravana accepted and ordered his rakshasas to set fire to Hanuman's tail. As soon as this was done, Hanuman made himself very small, slipped from his bonds, and, jumping upon the roofs, spread a conflagration through the city of Lanka. He leaped back to the mainland, conveyed the news of Sita's captivity to Rama and Sugriva, and was soon engaged in active preparations for the campaign. Battle of Lanka Rama decided that as long as the ocean was not bridged, it was impossible for any one but Hanuman to cross it. Rama meditated for three days without food or water, until from the terrified waves arose
Varuna , the god of the ocean. Varuna was perplexed that Rama was meditating on him since he (Rama) was an avatar of
Vishnu , one of the highest ranked Gods of Hinduism. Rama explained that because he is a human, he must perform the duties (dharma) of a human to call on Varuna. Hence, Varuna promised him that if the architects Nila and Nala (from Rama's army) were to build a bridge of any kind, by throwing any material into the ocean, the ocean would support the bridge as though it were built on land. Terror reigned in Lanka at the news of the approach of Rama. Vibishana, Ravana's brother, deserted to Rama, because of the demon's rage when he advised him to make peace with Rama. Fiercely fought battles ensued, in which even the gods took part--Vishnu and Indra taking sides with Rama, and the evil spirits fighting with Ravana. After the war had been fought for some time, with varying results, and a great number of troops on both sides were killed, it was decided to determine the victor by single combat between Ravana and Rama. Even the gods were terrified at the fierceness of the conflict. At each shot Rama's mighty bow cut off a head of Ravana, which at once grew back, and the hero was in despair until Vibhishana told him to aim at Ravana's belly-button. Rama took careful aim as the source of "amrit" or divine nectar that allowed the regeneration of Ravan's head was stored in his belly button. Subsequently, Rama killed Ravana using Bramha's divine weapon, the Bramhastra. As Ravana fell by this weapon, flowers rained from heaven upon the happy victory, and his ears were ravished with celestial music. Touched by the grief of Ravana's widow,
Mandodari , Rama told Vibhishan to conduct the funeral in the manner deserved by kings. Sita was led forth, beaming with happiness at finding herself re-united to her husband; but her happiness was destined to be of short duration. Rama received her with coldness and with downcast eyes, saying that she could no longer be his wife, after having dwelt in the house of Ravana. Sita assured him of her innocence; but on his continuing to revile her, she ordered her funeral pyre to be built, since she would rather die by fire than live despised by Rama. The sympathy of all the bystanders was with Sita, but Rama saw her enter the flames without a tremor. Soon
Agni , the god of fire, appeared, bearing the uninjured Sita in his arms. Her innocence thus publicly proved by the trial by fire, she was welcomed by Rama, whose treatment she tenderly forgave. Rama reveals to Lakshmana why the pyre was necessary. Earlier during the exile, Rama already knew Ravana would be kidnapping Sita. If Ravana had attempted to touch Sita, her devotion to her husband, her purity and chasity would have burned Ravana's hands. Hence, the only way to let Sita be kidnapped was for her soul to be sent with Agni, the fire god, whereas a physical form of Sita remained. Hence, when Rama told Sita to prove herself with fire, he was really asking Agni, the fire god, to give him back his Sita. The conquest won, Ravana defeated, and Sita restored, Rama returned in triumph to Ayodhya, and assumed the governance to the great delight of Bharata and the people of Ayodhya. Sita banished Ayodhya was prosperous, the people were happy, and for a time all went well. It was not long, however, before whispers concerning Sita's long stay in
Lanka
spread through the city, and Rama came to hear the whisperings that a famine in the country was due to the guilt of Sita, who had suffered the caresses of Ravana while in captivity. Under the pressure from the citizens of Ayodhya, Rama banished her to the forest in which they had spent together the happy years of their exile. Sita was already several months pregnant when she was banished by Rama. Without a murmur the unhappy Sita dragged herself to the forest, and, torn with grief of body and spirit, found the hermitage of
Valmiki , where she gave birth to twin sons,
Lava
and
Kusha . Here she reared them, with the assistance of the hermit, who was their teacher, and under whose care they grew to manhood, handsome and strong. It chanced that about the time the youths were twenty years old, Rama began to think the gods were angered with him because he had killed Ravana, who was the son of a Brahman. Rama became determined to propitiate them by means of Ashvamedha, the great sacrifice, in which he caused a horse to be turned loose in the forest. When his men went to retake it, at the end of the year, they found it caught by two strong and beautiful youths who resisted all efforts to capture them. When his men couldn't retake the horse, Rama went to the forest in person, only to learn that the youths were his twin sons, Lava and Kusha. Struck with remorse, Rama recalled the sufferings of his wife Sita, and on learning that she was at the hermitage of Valmiki, requested her to come with him. Sita had had time to recover from the love of her youth, and the prospect of life with Rama, she felt, was not altogether pleasant. She appealed to the earth, if she had never loved any man but Rama, if her truth and purity were known to the earth, let it open its bosom and take her to it. While the people stood trembling with horror, the earth opened, a gorgeous throne appeared, and the goddess of earth, seated upon it, took Sita beside her and conveyed her to the realms of eternal happiness, leaving the too late repentant Rama to wear out his remaining years in penitence.
Posted by
Esha
at
03:37
No comments:
Ramayan
The Rāmāyaṇa ( Devanāgarī : रामायण) is an ancient
Sanskrit
epic
attributed to the poet
Valmiki
and is an important part of the
Hindu
canon ( smṛti ). The name Rāmāyaṇa is a
tatpurusa
compound of Rāma and ayana "going, advancing", translating to "the travels of
Rāma ". [1]
The Rāmāyaṇa consists of 24,000 verses [2]
in seven cantos (kāṇḍas) and tells the story of a prince,
Rama
of
Ayodhya , whose wife
Sita
is abducted by the demon ( Rākshasa ) king of
Lanka ,
Rāvana . In its current form, the Valmiki Ramayana is dated variously from 500 BCE to 100 BCE, or about co-eval to early versions of the
Mahābhārata .
Posted by
Esha
at
03:29
No comments:
Labels:
Indian culture
Synopsis of Mahabharat
The core story of the work is that of a dynastic struggle for the throne of
Hastinapura , the kingdom ruled by the
Kuru
clan. The two collateral branches of the family that participate in the struggle are the
Kaurava , the elder branch of the family, and the
Pandava , the younger branch, with the situation where
Kaurva's
elder brother
Duryodhana
is younger than eldest brother of
Pandava's
i.e.
Yudhisthir , leading to conflict where both have the claims to the throne, citing themselves elder. The struggle culminates in the
Great battle of Kurukshetra , in which the
Pandavas
are ultimately victorious. The battle produces complex conflicts of kinship and friendship, instances of family loyalty and duty taking precedence over what is right, as well as the converse. The Mahabharata itself ends with the death of
Krishna , and the subsequent end of his dynasty, and ascent of the Pandava brothers to heaven. It also marks the beginning of the Hindu age of
Kali
( Kali Yuga ), the fourth and final age of mankind, where the great values and noble ideas have crumbled, and man is heading toward the complete dissolution of right action, morality and virtue. The elder generations Janamejaya's ancestor
Shantanu , the king of
Hastinapura
has a short-lived marriage with the goddess
Ganga
and has a son, Devavrata (later to be called
Bhishma ), who becomes the heir apparent. Satyavati
is the daughter of a fisherman in the kingdom, and she already has a son,
Vyasa . Many years later, when the king goes hunting, he see her and asks to marry her. Her father refuses to consent to the marriage unless Shantanu promises to make any future son of Satyavati the king upon his death. To solve the king's dilemma, Devavrata agrees not to take the throne. As the fisherman is not sure about the prince's children honouring the promise, Devavrata also takes a vow of lifelong celibacy to guarantee his father's promise. Shantanu has two sons by Satyavati,
Chitrangada
and
Vichitravirya . Upon Shantanu's death, Chitrangada becomes king. After his death Vichitravirya rules
Hastinapura . In order to arrange the marriage of the young Vichitravirya, Bhishma goes to Kashi for a
swayamvara
of the three princesses Amba, Ambika and Ambalika. He wins them, and Ambika and Ambalika are married to Vichtravirya. The Pandava and Kaurava princes A motif depicting Bhima in the battle ready posture at
Hampi ,
Karnataka Vichitravirya died young without any heirs. Satyavati then asked her first son
Vyasa
to go to Vichitravirya's widows and give them the divine vision of giving birth to son's without losing their chastity. Vyasa fathered the royal children
Dhritarashtra , who is born blind, and
Pandu , who is born pale. Through a maid of the widows, he also fathers their commoner half-brother
Vidura . Pandu marries twice, to
Kunti
and
Madri . Dhritarashtra is married to
Gandhari , who blindfolds herself when she finds she has been married to a blind man. Pandu takes the throne because of Dhritarashtra's blindness. Pandu while out hunting deer, is however cursed that if he engages in a sexual act, he will die. He then retires to the forest along with his two wives, and his brother rules thereafter, despite his blindness. Pandu's elder queen Kunti however, asks the gods
Dharma ,
Vayu , and
Indra
for sons, by using a boon granted by Durvasa. She gives birth to three sons
Yudhishtira ,
Bhima , and
Arjuna
through these gods. Kunti shares her boon with the younger queen
Madri , who bears the twins
Nakula
and
Sahadeva
through the
Ashwini
twins. However Pandu and Madri, unable to resist temptation, indulge in sex and die in the forest, and Kunti returns to Hastinapura to raise her sons, who are then usually referred to as the
Pandava
brothers. Dhritarashtra has a hundred sons through
Gandhari , the
Kaurava
brothers, the eldest being
Duryodhana , and the second
Dushasana . There is rivalry between the sets of cousins, from their youth and into manhood. Laakshagriha (The House of Wax) Duryodhana plots to get rid of the Pandavas and tries to kill the Pandavas secretly by setting fire to their palace which he had made of
lac . However, the Pandavas are warned by their uncle, Vidura, who sends them a miner to dig a tunnel. They are able to escape to safety and go into hiding, but after leaving others behind, whose bodies are mistaken for them. Bhishma goes to the river Ganga to perform the last rites of the people found dead in the burned palace, understood to be Pandavas. Vidura then informs him that the Pandavas are alive and to keep the secret to himself. Draupadi In course of this exile the Pandavas are informed of a
swayamvara , a marriage competition, which is taking place for the hand of the
Panchala
princess
Draupadi . The Pandavas enter the competition in disguise as Brahmins. The task is to string a mighty steel bow and shoot a target on the ceiling while looking at its reflection in water below. Most of the princes fail, being unable to lift the bow. Arjuna, however, succeeds. When he returns with his bride, Arjuna goes to his mother, saying, "Mother, I have brought you a present!". Kunti, not noticing the princess, tells Arjuna that whatever he has won must be shared with his brothers. To ensure that their mother never utters a falsehood, the brothers take her as a common wife. In some interpretations, Draupadi alternates months or years with each brother. At this juncture they also meet
Krishna , who would become their lifelong ally and guide. Indraprastha After the wedding, the Pandava brothers are invited back to Hastinapura. The Kuru family elders and relatives negotiate and broker a split of the kingdom, with the Pandavas obtaining a new territory. Yudhishtira has a new capital built for this territory at
Indraprastha . Neither the Pandava nor Kaurava sides are happy with the arrangement however. Shortly after this, Arjuna marries
Subhadra . Yudhishtira wishes to establish his position; he seeks Krishna's advice. Krishna advises him, and after due preparation and the elimination of some opposition, Yudhishthira carries out a Rajasuya Yagna ceremony; he is thus recognised as pre-eminent among kings. The Pandavas have a new palace built for them, by
Maya
the
Danava . They invite their Kaurava cousins to Indraprastha. Duryodhana walks round the palace, and mistakes a glossy floor for water, and will not step in. After being told of his error, he then sees a pond, and assumes it is not water and falls in. Draupadi laughs at him, and he is humiliated. The dice game Sakuni, Duryodhana's uncle, now arranges a dice game, playing against Yudhishtira with loaded dice. Yudhishtira loses all his wealth, then his kingdom. He then even gambles his brothers, then his wife, and finally himself, into servitude. The jubilant Kauravas insult the Pandavas in their helpless state and even try to disrobe Draupadi in front of the entire court. Dhritarashtra, Bhishma, and the other elders are aghast at the situation, and negotiate a compromise. The Pandavas are required to go into exile for 13 years, and for the 13th year must remain hidden. If discovered by the Kauravas, they will be forced into exile for another 12 years. Exile and return The Pandavas spend twelve years in exile. Many adventures occur during this time. They also prepare alliances for a possible future conflict. They spend their final year in disguise in the court of
Virata , and are discovered at or after the end of the year. At the end of their exile, they try to negotiate a return to Indraprastha. However, this fails, as Duryodhana objects that they were discovered while in hiding, and that no return of their kingdom was agreed. War becomes inevitable. The battle at Kurukshetra Main article:
Kurukshetra war The two sides summon vast armies to their help, and line up at
Kurukshetra
for a war. The Kingdoms of
Panchala ,
Dwaraka ,
Kasi ,
Kekaya ,
Magadha ,
Matsya ,
Chedi ,
Pandya
and the
Yadus
of
Mathura
and some other clans like the
Parama Kambojas
were allied with the
Pandavas . The allies of the
Kauravas
included the kings of Pragjyotisha,
Anga ,
Kekaya , Sindhudesa (including
Sindhus ,
Sauviras
and Sivis), Mahishmati,
Avanti
in Madhyadesa,
Madra ,
Gandhara ,
Bahlikas ,
Kambojas
and many others. Prior to war being declared,
Balarama , had expressed his unhappiness at the developing conflict, and left to go on
pilgrimage , thus he does not take part in the battle itself. Krishna takes part in a non-combatant role, as charioteer for Arjuna. Before the battle, Arjuna, seeing himself facing great-uncle
Bhishma
and his teacher
Drona
on the other side, has doubts about the battle and he fails to lift his Gandiva bow. Krishna wakes him up to his call of duty in the famous
Bhagavad Gita
section of the epic. Though initially sticking to chivalrous notions of warfare, both sides soon adopt into dishonourable tactics. At the end of the 18-day battle, only the Pandavas, Satyaki, Ashwathama and Krishna survive. The end of the Pandavas After seeing the carnage,
Gandhari
who had lost all her sons, curses Krishna to be a witness to a similar annihilation of his family, for though divine and capable of stopping the war, he had not done so. Krishna accepts the curse, which bears fruit 36 years later. The Pandavas who had ruled their kingdom meanwhile, decide to renounce everything. Clad in skins and rags they retire to the
Himalaya
and climb towards heaven in their bodily form. A stray dog travels with them. One by one the brothers and Draupadi fall on their way. As each one stumbles, Yudhishitra gives the rest the reason for their fall (Draupadi was partial to Arjuna, Nakula and Sahadeva were vain and proud of their looks, Bhima and Arjuna were proud of their strength and archery skills, respectively). Only the virtuous Yudhisthira who had tried everything to prevent the carnage and the dog remain. The dog reveals himself to be the god Dharma, who reveals the nature of the test and assures Yudhishtra that his fallen siblings and wife are in heaven. Yudhisthira alone reaches heaven in his bodily form for being just and humble. Arjuna's grandson
Parikshita
rules after them and dies bitten by a snake. His furious son, Janamejaya, decides to perform a snake sacrifice ( sarpasattra ) in order to destroy the snakes. It is at this sacrifice that the tale of his ancestors is narrated to him.
Posted by
Esha
at
03:21
No comments:
Mahabharata
The Mahābhārata (Devanagari: महाभारत) is one of the two major Sanskrit epics of ancient India, the other being the Ramayana. With more than 74,000 verses, long prose passages, and about 1.8 million words in total, it is one of the longest epic poems in the world.[1] Including the Harivamsa, the Mahabharata has a total length of more than 90,000 verses. Its discussion of human goals (artha or wealth, kama or pleasure, dharma or duty/harmony, and moksha or liberation) takes place in a long-standing mythological tradition, attempting to explain the relationship of the individual to society and the world (the nature of the 'Self') and the workings of karma. The title may be translated as "the great tale of the Bharata Dynasty", according to the Mahābhārata's own testimony extended from a shorter version simply called Bhārata of 24,000 verses[2] The epic is part of the Hindu itihāsa, literally "that which happened", which includes with the Ramayana and the Purāṇas. In its scope, the Mahabharata is more than simply a story of kings and princes, sages and wise men, demons and gods. Vyasa, says that one of its aims is elucidating the four goals of life: dharma (duty),artha (wealth),kama (pleasure), and moksha (liberation). The narrative culminates in moksha, believed by Hindus to be the ultimate goal of human beings. Karma and dharma play an integral role in the Mahabharata. The Mahabharata includes aspects of Hindu mythology, stories of the gods and goddesses, and explanations of Hindu philosophy. Among the principal works and stories that are a part of the Mahabharata are the following (often considered isolated as works in their own right): Bhagavad Gita (Krishna advises and teaches Arjuna when he is ridden with doubt. Anusasanaparva.) Damayanti (or Nala and Damayanti, a love story. Aranyakaparva.) Krishnavatara (the story of Krishna, the Krishna Lila, which is woven through many chapters of the story) An abbreviated version of the Ramayana. Aranyakaparva. Rishyasringa (also written as Rshyashrnga, the horned boy and rishi. Aranyakaparva.) Vishnu sahasranama (a hymn to Vishnu, which describes his 1000 names; Anushasanaparva.) The Harivamsa consists of the final two of the 100 sub-parvas, and was considered an appendix (khila) to the Mahabharata proper by the redactors of the 18 parvas. The Harivamsa consists of the final two of the 100 sub-parvas, and was considered an appendix (khila) to the Mahabharata proper by the redactors of the 18 parvas. The division into 18 parvas is as follows: parva title sub-parvas contents 1 Adi-parva 1-19 Introduction, birth and upbringing of the princes. 2 Sabha-parva 20-28 Life at the court, the game of dice, and the exile of the Pandavas. Maya Danava erects the palace and court (sabha), at Indraprastha. 3 Aranyaka-parva (also Vanaparva, Aranyaparva) 29-44 The twelve years in exile in the forest (aranya). 4 Virata-parva 45-48 The year in exile spent at the court of Virata. 5 Udyoga-parva 49-59 Preparations for war. 6 Bhishma-parva 60-64 The first part of the great battle, with Bhishma as commander for the Kauravas. 7 Drona-parva 65-72 The battle continues, with Drona as commander. 8 Karna-parva 73 The battle again, with Karna as commander. 9 Shalya-parva 74-77 The last part of the battle, with Shalya as commander. 10 Sauptika-parva 78-80 How Ashvattama and the remaining Kauravas killed the Pandava army in their sleep (Sauptika). 11 Stri-parva 81-85 Gandhari and the other women (stri) lament the dead. 12 Shanti-parva 86-88 The crowning of Yudhisthira, and his instructions from Bhishma 13 Anusasana-parva 89-90 The final instructions (anusasana) from Bhishma. 14 Ashvamedhika-parva[7] 91-92 The royal ceremony of the ashvamedha conducted by Yudhisthira. 15 Ashramavasika-parva 93-95 Dhritarashtra, Gandhari and Kunti leave for an ashram, and eventual death in the forest. 16 Mausala-parva 96 The infighting between the Yadavas with maces (mausala). 17 Mahaprasthanika-parva 97 The first part of the path to death (mahaprasthana "great journey") of Yudhisthira and his brothers. 18 Svargarohana-parva 98 The Pandavas return to the spiritual world (svarga). khila Harivamsa-parva 99-100 Life of Krishna.
Posted by
Esha
at
03:13
No comments:
Labels:
Indian culture
What does Hindu mean?
Origins of the word Hindu: Word Hindu is derived from Sanskrit word Sindhu (Sanskrit: सिन्धु). The word "Hindu" is in medieval Persian "Hindo" representing the ancient Avestan hendava (Sanskrit, saindhava), a dweller on the Sindhu or Indus. Using the word "Hindu" for "Sindhu", they referred to the people who lived near or across the Sindhu river and they called land further to Sindhu river as "Hindostan" (Modern Persian: Hindustan) (Hindu + -stan)). The religion of the Indians (Hindus) later became known as "Hinduism" to outsiders, whereas Indians always called their religion Sanātana dharma (the eternal law), Vaidika dharma (law of the Vedas), Arya dharma (the noble religion), or Mānava dharma (the religion of mankind).[citation needed] Eventually the word "Hindu" came into common use among Hindus themselves,[2] and was adopted into Greek as Indos and Indikos ("Indian"), into Latin as Indianus.[13] and into Sanskrit, as Hindu, appearing in some early medieval texts (e.g. Bhaviṣya Purāṇa, Kālikā Purāṇa, Rāmakośa, Hemantakavikośa and Adbhutarūpakośa)
Posted by
Esha
at
03:06
No comments:
Labels:
Indian culture
Indian literature
The earliest literary traditions were mostly oral and passed down through descendants by citizens. Later, though, they were transcribed. Most of these spring from Hindu tradition and are represented by sacred works such as the Vedas, the epics of the Mahabharata and Ramayana. Tamil Sangam literature represents some of India's oldest secular traditions.[citation needed] Many Buddhist and Jain works are in Prakrit languages like Pali. The classical works of playwright Kalidasa even today exert an important influence on Indian litterateurs. The Tamil Ramayana (translated from the original Valmiki Ramayana) by Kamban is considered to be a classical masterpiece.[citation needed] Kamban[citation needed] and Kalidasa have been rightly given the title of "Kavi Chakravarthi" (King among Poets). Upon the arrival of Mughal dynasty, Islamic culture also influenced the medieval Indian literature. This was due to the spreading influence of Persian and the rise of famous poets such as Amir Khusro. Colonial rule prepared the stage for modern literature exemplified by the works of Rabindranath Tagore, Subhramanya Bharati,Kuvempu, Bankim Chandra Chattopadhyay, Michael Madhusudan Dutt, Munshi Premchand, Devaki Nandan Khatri, among many others. Indian writers in modern times, like R. K. Narayan, Poornachandra Tejaswi, Vaikom Muhammad Basheer,Mahasweta Devi, Amrita Pritam, Arundhati Roy, Vikram Seth, Khushwant Singh, Salman Rushdie, and Moncy Pothen, have been the cynosures of wide acclaim, both in Indian languages and English .
Posted by
Esha
at
02:56
No comments:
Labels:
Indian culture
Knowing Indian culture
I know I've ended up here in foreign land and slowly and gradually moving far away from
the culture and traditions of India. It worries me, i do think about it nearly every day. Since, the time i decided to get married, my first thought was - Will I be able to maintain the Indian culture on this foreign land?? I had a doubt and a secret wish to attempt to maintain all possible traditional indian ways of living. Why is it that i am worried? Firstly, Shiv speaks only in english hardly ever in native language though he knows it. Before our marriage, I thought i'll be able to change him, by communicating with him in our native language, but what happens??? not much changes in him. He does speak but still prefers to talk in english. Secondly, culture at home. My parents always prayed and we had traditional food with english food on exception days. While here at my in-laws, shiv and his sister are more inclined to english food even father-in-law. I know this is not a major thing to think about but I always wonder how would my kids learn about Indian culture without any touch of it in the environment they are in??? I dont know if other women think about this but i do. I dont say kids
have to be expert in traditions but I give more importance to all good manners and good thinking thought by my culture. What can i do?? The only thing I come up with is gathering all required knowledge i need to teach them and then leave it up to them to either learn it or leave it.
Posted by
Esha
at
02:41
No comments:
Labels:
Indian culture
Monday, July 16, 2007
home
I don’t knw what I m going to do today. I was so excited after weekend to go to work and now after I have reached here, I don’t feel like working. I don’t feel good. I don’t want to be here. I jst want to go out of this country. Last weekend was full of ups and downs. Don’t knw why?/ I need a change but what should I do? At home, I cannt change nything except my room. I don’t feel that house as mine. After I visited my parents, I realised m missing something in my life is a feeling of home! I knw people will say m lucky that I have a mother-in-law who cooks for us. That probably I don’t have to worry about cooking nymore. But am I happy with that??? No, I have noticed she doesn’t give me that chance to cook. I don’t say I want to be in kitchen all times but if she doesn’t
knw how to cook, how to provide variety in life what am I suppose to do? She is good in sense, she prepares everything before I go home but now m more or less having a feeling she doenst want me to be involved in kitchen. The way ever weekend we have pizza for sure is making life a lot dull for me. There are so many items we don’t make at house which I always had in my parents home. And I can see myself missing all this when I go to parent home and I ask mum to cook that old dish which was one of the routine stuff. So, I was angry on Saturday and shiv saw that. By the time I got ready and went into kitchen that day she already prepared food so what am I suppose to do. Atleast once in weekend I felt I can make something I like but no. I feel like revolting but I knw this will create issues which I don’t want. So I didn’t say nything to shiv, but he insisted that day so I had to say him and he simply said- than cook what u like. No, how can I cook what I like. Ur mum already prepares stuff and I don’t like too much stuff made. Hez fine now but doesn’t knw that is still within me and I m not happy with all this. I knw I should keep this within me orelse itz going to go worse some day but how am I going to deal with it? All I have tried to do is suggest her what to cook but she doesn’t seem to be happy with it. So, m no more gonna think of cooking nything now. If I want to eat something good I m going to parents every Friday and having it. I think m slowly getting upset with her and dislike her now. Which I don’t want to happen. Things have been good but at times I need to speak. I need a tactic to deal with this.
Posted by
Esha
at
02:04
No comments:
Newer Posts
Older Posts
Home
Subscribe to:
Posts (Atom)
Blog Archive
▼
2007
(16)
►
August
(2)
▼
July
(12)
Death Ceremony
After marriage ceremony
Marriage Ceremony
Young age ceremonies
Synopsis of Ramayan
Ramayan
Synopsis of Mahabharat
Mahabharata
What does Hindu mean?
Indian literature
Knowing Indian culture
home
►
April
(2)
About Me
Esha
View my complete profile