History
History
Tuesday, 14 June 2011
This article is about the history of the Indian subcontinent prior to the partition of India in 1947.For the modern Republic of India, The
history of the
Republic
of
India
began on 26 January, 1950. The country became an independent
dominion
within the
British Commonwealth
15 August 1947. George VI (Albert Frederick Arthur George) was King
until the Republic was proclaimed in 1950. Concurrently the
Muslim-majority northwest and east of
British India
was separated into the
Dominion of Pakistan , by the
partition of India . The partition led to a
population transfer
of more than 10 million people between India and Pakistan and the death of about one million people. [1]
Lord Louis Mountbatten , and later
Chakravarti Rajagopalachari
served in the office of the
Governor General of India .
Jawaharlal Nehru
became the first
Prime Minister of India
and
Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel
became the
Deputy Prime Minister of India
and its
Minister of Home Affairs .
On 26 January 1950, India became a
republic
and a new
constitution
came into effect under which India was established as a
secular
and a
democratic
state. [2]
In the years since independence India has made huge progress and coped
with great problems, and has developed its industry and its agriculture,
and has maintained a system of government which makes it the largest
democracy in the world. The nation has faced challenges from
religious violence ,
casteism ,
naxalism ,
terrorism
and regional separatist insurgencies, especially in
Jammu and Kashmir
and northeastern India. India has unresolved territorial disputes with
the People's Republic of China, which, in 1962, escalated into the
Sino-Indian War , and with Pakistan, which resulted in wars in
1947 ,
1965 ,
1971
and
1999 .
India is
a state armed with nuclear weapons ; having conducted its first
nuclear test
in 1974, [3]
followed by
another five tests
in 1998. [3]
From the 1950s to the 1980s, India followed
socialist -inspired policies. The economy was shackled by
extensive regulation ,
protectionism
and public ownership, leading to pervasive
corruption
and slow economic growth. [4]
Beginning in 1991,
significant economic reforms [5]
have transformed India into
one of the fastest-growing economies
in the world, increasing its global clout.
Part of a series on the
History of Modern India
Pre-Independence
British Raj
(1858–1947)
Indian independence movement
(1857–1947)
Partition of India
(1947)
Post-Independence
Political integration of India
(1947–49)
Indo-Pakistani War of 1947
States Reorganisation Act
(1956)
Non-Aligned Movement
(1956– )
Sino-Indian War
(1962)
Indo-Pakistani War of 1965
Green Revolution
(1970s)
Indo-Pakistani War of 1971
Emergency
(1975–77)
Siachen conflict
(1984)
1990s in India
Economic liberalisation in India
Kargil War
(1999)
2000s in India
The
history of India
begins with evidence of human activity of
Homo sapiens
as long as 75,000 years ago, or with earlier hominids including
Homo erectus
from about 500,000 years ago. The
Indus Valley Civilization , which spread and flourished in the northwestern part of the
Indian subcontinent
from c. 3300 to 1300 BCE, was the first major civilization in India. A
sophisticated and technologically advanced urban culture developed in
the
Mature Harappan
period, from 2600 to 1900 BCE. This
Bronze Age
civilization collapsed before the end of the second millennium BCE and was followed by the
Iron Age
Vedic Civilization , which extended over much of the
Indo-Gangetic plain
and which witnessed the rise of major polities known as the
Mahajanapadas . In one of these kingdoms,
Magadha ,
Mahavira
and
Gautama Buddha
were born in the 6th or 5th century BCE and propagated their
śramanic
philosophies. Almost all of the subcontinent was conquered by the
Maurya Empire
during the 4th and 3rd centuries BCE. It subsequently became fragmented, with various parts ruled by numerous
Middle kingdoms
for the next 1,500 years. This is known as the classical period of
Indian history, during which India has sometimes been estimated to have
had the
largest economy
of the ancient and medieval world, controlling between one third and one fourth of the world's wealth up to the 18th century. Much of northern and central India was once again united in the 4th
century CE, and remained so for two centuries thereafter, under the
Gupta Empire . This period, witnessing a
Hindu
religious and intellectual resurgence, is known among its admirers as the " Golden Age of India ". During the same time, and for several centuries afterwards, southern India, under the rule of the
Chalukyas ,
Cholas ,
Pallavas , and
Pandyas , experienced its own golden age. During this period, aspects of Indian civilization, administration, culture, and religion ( Hinduism
and
Buddhism ) spread to much of
Asia . The southern state of
Kerala
had maritime business links with the Roman Empire from around 77 CE.
Islam was introduced in Kerala through this route by Muslim traders.
Muslim rule in the subcontinent began in 712 CE when the Arab general
Muhammad bin Qasim
conquered
Sindh
and
Multan
in southern
Punjab
in modern day Pakistan, [1]
setting the stage for several successive invasions from Central Asia
between the 10th and 15th centuries CE, leading to the formation of
Muslim empires in the Indian subcontinent
such as the
Delhi Sultanate
and the
Mughal Empire . Mughal rule came from Central Asia to cover most of the northern
parts of the subcontinent. Mughal rulers introduced Central Asian art
and architecture to India. In addition to the Mughals and various
Rajput
kingdoms, several independent Hindu states, such as the
Vijayanagara Empire , the
Maratha Empire , and the
Ahom Kingdom ,
flourished contemporaneously in southern, western, and northeastern
India respectively. The Mughal Empire suffered a gradual decline in the
early 18th century, which provided opportunities for the
Afghans ,
Balochis ,
Sikhs , and Marathas to exercise control over large areas in the northwest of the subcontinent until the British
East India Company
gained ascendancy over South Asia. [2] Beginning in the mid-18th century and over the next century, India
was gradually annexed by the British East India Company. Dissatisfaction
with Company rule led to the
Indian Rebellion of 1857 , after which India was directly administered by the
British Crown
and witnessed a period of both rapid development of
infrastructure
and economic decline. During the first half of the 20th century, a nationwide
struggle for independence
was launched by the
Indian National Congress
and later joined by the
Muslim League . The subcontinent gained independence from the
United Kingdom
in 1947, after being
partitioned
into the dominions of India and
Pakistan .
Pre-Historic era: Main article: South Asian Stone Age The
South Asian Stone Age
covers the
Palaeolithic ,
Mesolithic
and
Neolithic
periods in
South Asia . Evidence for the most ancient anatomically modern
Homo sapiens
in South Asia has been found in the cave sites of
Batadomba lena
and Beli lena in
Sri Lanka . [1] In
Mehrgarh , in what is today western
Pakistan , the Neolithic begins ca. 7000 and lasts until 3300 BCE and the first beginnings of the
Bronze Age . In South India, the Mesolithic lasts until 3000 BCE, and the Neolithic until 1400 BCE, followed by a
Megalithic
transitional period mostly skipping the Bronze Age. The
Iron Age
begins roughly simultaneously in North and South India, around 1200 to 1000 BCE ( Painted Grey Ware culture ,
Hallur ).
History of South Asia
History of India Stone Age
Before 3300 BCE
–
Mehrgarh Culture
7000–3300 BCE
Indus Valley Civilization
3300–1700 BCE
–
Late Harappan Culture
1700–1300 BCE  –
Cemetery H culture
1900-1300 BCE
–
Ochre Coloured Pottery culture
From 2000 BCE
Swat culture
1600–500 BCE
[ show ] Iron Age
1200–180
BCE
[ show ] Middle kingdoms of
India
CE–1279 CE
Delhi Sultanate
1206–1526 CE
Vijayanagara Empire
1336–1646 CE
Gajapati Kingdom
1434–1541 CE
Deccan Sultanates
1490–1596 CE
Mughal Empire
1526–1803 CE
Maratha Empire
1674–1818 CE
Durrani Empire
1747–1823 CE
Sikh Empire
1799–1849 CE
[ show ]Regional Empires 1100–1800 CE
Colonial India
1505–1961 CE
Company rule in India
1757–1858 CE   British Raj
1858–1947 CE
Partition of India
1947 CE
Bhimbetka rock painting ,
Madhya Pradesh ,
India .
Stone age
(5000 BC) writings of
Edakkal Caves
in
Kerala , India.
Isolated remains of
Homo erectus
in Hathnora in the
Narmada Valley
in central India indicate that India might have been inhabited since at least the
Middle Pleistocene
era, somewhere between 500,000 and 200,000 years ago. [3] [4]
Recent finds in
Tamil Nadu
(at c. 75,000 years ago, before and after the explosion of the
Toba volcano ) indicate the presence of the first anatomically modern humans in the area. Tools crafted by proto-humans that have been dated back two million
years have been discovered in the northwestern part of the subcontinent. [5] [6]
The ancient history of the region includes some of South Asia's oldest settlements [7]
and some of its major civilizations. [8] [9]
The earliest archaeological site in the subcontinent is the palaeolithic
hominid
site in the
Soan River valley . [10]
Soanian sites are found in the
Sivalik region
across what are now India, Pakistan, and Nepal. [11] The
Mesolithic
period in the Indian subcontinent was followed by the
Neolithic
period, when more extensive settlement of the subcontinent occurred after the end of the last
Ice Age
approximately 12,000 years ago. The first confirmed semipermanent settlements appeared 9,000 years ago in the
Bhimbetka rock shelters
in modern
Madhya Pradesh , India. Early Neolithic culture in South Asia is represented by the
Mehrgarh
findings (7000 BCE onwards) in present-day
Balochistan , Pakistan. [12]
Traces of a Neolithic culture have been alleged to be submerged in the
Gulf of Khambat
in India,
radiocarbon dated
to 7500 BCE. [13]
However, the one dredged piece of wood in question was found in an area
of strong ocean currents. Neolithic agriculture cultures sprang up in
the Indus Valley region around 5000 BCE, in the lower Gangetic valley
around 3000 BCE, and in later South India, spreading southwards and also
northwards into
Malwa
around 1800 BCE. The first urban civilization of the region began with the
Indus Valley Civilization . [14] Bronze Age Main article:
Indus Valley Civilization See also:
Economic history of India  and
Timeline of the economy of India
Ancient
Lothal
as envisaged by the
Archaeological Survey of India .
"Priest King" of
Indus Valley Civilization The Bronze Age in the
Indian subcontinent
began around 3300 BCE with the early Indus Valley Civilization. It was centered on the
Indus River
and its tributaries which extended into the
Ghaggar-Hakra River
valley, [8]
the
Ganges-Yamuna Doab , [15]
Gujarat , [16]
and southeastern
Afghanistan . [17] The civilization is primarily located in modern-day India ( Gujarat ,
Haryana ,
Punjab
and
Rajasthan
provinces) and Pakistan ( Sindh ,
Punjab , and
Balochistan
provinces). Historically part of
Ancient India , it is one of the world's earliest urban civilizations, along with
Mesopotamia
and
Ancient Egypt . [18]
Inhabitants of the ancient Indus river valley, the
Harappans ,
developed new techniques in metallurgy and handicraft (carneol
products, seal carving), and produced copper, bronze, lead, and tin. The Mature Indus civilization flourished from about 2600 to 1900 BCE,
marking the beginning of the urban civilization on the subcontinent.
The civilization included urban centers such as
Dholavira ,
Kalibangan ,
Rupar ,
Rakhigarhi , and
Lothal
in modern-day India, and
Harappa ,
Ganeriwala , and
Mohenjo-daro
in modern-day Pakistan. The civilization is noted for its cities built
of brick, roadside drainage system, and multistoried houses. Early historic period Vedic period Main article:
Vedic Civilization See also:
Vedas  and
Indo-Aryans
Map of
North India
in the late
Vedic period . The
Vedic period
is characterized by
Indo-Aryan
culture associated with the texts of
Vedas , sacred to Hindus, which were orally composed in
Vedic Sanskrit .
The Vedas are some of the oldest extant texts, next to those of Egypt
and Mesopotamia. The Vedic period lasted from about 1500 to 500 BCE,
laying the foundations of
Hinduism
and other cultural aspects of early Indian society. The Aryas established
Vedic
civilization all over north India, particularly in the Gangetic Plain.
This period succeeded the prehistoric Late Harappan, during which
immigrations of Indo-Aryan-speaking tribes
overlaid the existing civilizations of local people whom they called Dasyus.
The
swastika
is a major element of
Hindu iconography . Early Vedic society consisted of largely pastoral groups, with late Harappan urbanization having been abandoned. [19]
After the time of the
Rigveda , Aryan society became increasingly agricultural and was socially organized around the four
varnas , or social classes. In addition to the Vedas, the principal texts of Hinduism, the core themes of the Sanskrit epics
Ramayana
and
Mahabharata
are said to have their ultimate origins during this period. [20]
The early Indo-Aryan presence probably corresponds, in part, to the
Ochre Coloured Pottery culture
in archaeological contexts. [21] The
Kuru kingdom [22]
corresponds to the
Black and Red Ware
and
Painted Grey Ware
cultures and to the beginning of the Iron Age in northwestern India, around 1000 BCE, as well as with the composition of the
Atharvaveda , the first Indian text to mention iron, as
śyāma ayas , literally "black metal." The Painted Grey Ware culture spanned much of northern India from about 1100 to 600 BCE. [21]
The Vedic Period also established republics such as
Vaishali ,
which existed as early as the 6th century BCE and persisted in some
areas until the 4th century CE. The later part of this period
corresponds with an increasing movement away from the previous tribal
system towards the establishment of kingdoms, called
mahajanapadas . Mahajanapadas
Gautama Buddha
undertaking extreme ascetic practices before his enlightenment on the bank of river
Falgu
in
Bodh Gaya , Bihar.
Detail of a leaf with, The Birth of
Mahavira
(the 24th
Jain
Tirthankara ), from the
Kalpa Sutra , c.1375-1400.
The
Mahajanapadas
were the sixteen most powerful kingdoms and republics of the era, located mainly across the fertile
Indo-Gangetic plains , however there were a number of smaller kingdoms stretching the length and breadth of
Ancient India .
Nalanda University
is considered one of the first great
universities
in recorded history. It was the center of
Buddhist
learning and research in the world from 450 to 1193 CE. Main articles:
Mahajanapadas
and
Magadha Empire Main articles:
History of Hinduism ,
History of Buddhism , and
History of Jainism See also:
Adi Shankara ,
Siddhartha Gautama , and
Mahavira Further information:
Upanishads ,  Indian Religions ,  Indian philosophy , and  Ancient universities of India In the later Vedic Age, a number of small kingdoms or city states had
covered the subcontinent, many mentioned in Vedic, early Buddhist and
Jaina literature as far back as 1000 BCE. By 500 BCE, sixteen monarchies
and "republics" known as the
Mahajanapadas
—
Kasi ,
Kosala ,
Anga ,
Magadha ,
Vajji
(or Vriji),
Malla ,
Chedi ,
Vatsa
(or Vamsa),
Kuru ,
Panchala ,
Matsya
(or Machcha),
Surasena ,
Assaka ,
Avanti ,
Gandhara , and
Kamboja
— stretched across the
Indo-Gangetic Plain
from modern-day
Afghanistan
to
Bengal
and
Maharastra . This period saw the second major rise of urbanism in India after the
Indus Valley Civilization . Many smaller clans mentioned within early literature seem to have
been present across the rest of the subcontinent. Some of these kings
were hereditary; other states elected their rulers. The educated speech
at that time was
Sanskrit , while the languages of the general population of northern India are referred to as
Prakrits . Many of the sixteen kingdoms had coalesced to four major ones by 500/400 BCE, by the time of
Siddhartha Gautama . These four were Vatsa, Avanti, Kosala, and Magadha. [23] Hindu rituals at that time were complicated and conducted by the priestly class. It is thought that the
Upanishads ,
late Vedic texts dealing mainly with philosophy, were composed in the
later Vedic Age and early in this period of the Mahajanapadas (from
about 600 to 400 BCE). The Upanishads had a substantial effect on
Indian philosophy
and were contemporary with the development of Buddhism and Jainism, indicating a golden age of thought in this period. It is believed that circa 537 BCE, that Siddhartha Gautama attained
the state of "enlightenment" and became known as the "Buddha" - the
enlightened one. Around the same time,
Mahavira
(the 24th Jain
tirthankar
according to Jains) propagated a similar theology that was to later become Jainism. [24]
However, Jain orthodoxy believes it predates all known time. The
Vedas
are believed to have documented a few Jain
tirthankars
and an ascetic order similar to the
sramana
movement. [25] The Buddha's teachings and Jainism had doctrines inclined toward
asceticism, and they were preached in Prakrit, which helped them gain
acceptance amongst the masses. They have profoundly influenced practices
that Hinduism and Indian spiritual orders are associated with,
including
vegetarianism , prohibition of animal slaughter and
ahimsa
(non-violence). While the geographic impact of Jainism was limited to
India, Buddhist nuns and monks eventually spread the teachings of Buddha
to
Central Asia ,
East Asia ,
Tibet ,
Sri Lanka
and
Southeast Asia . Persian and Greek conquests See also:
Achaemenid Empire ,
Greco-Buddhism ,
Alexander the Great ,
Nanda Empire , and
Gangaridai
Asia in 323 BCE, the
Nanda Empire
and
Gangaridai Empire
in relation to
Alexander 's Empire and neighbors. Much of the northwestern subcontinent (present-day eastern Afghanistan and Pakistan) came under the rule of the Persian
Achaemenid Empire
in c. 520 BCE, during the reign of
Darius the Great , and remained so for two centuries. [26]
In 326 BCE,
Alexander the Great
conquered Asia Minor and the Achaemenid Empire, reaching the northwest frontiers of the Indian subcontinent. There he defeated
King Porus
in the
Battle of the Hydaspes
(near modern-day
Jhelum , Pakistan) and conquered much of the
Punjab . [27]
Alexander's march east put him in confrontation with the
Nanda Empire
of
Magadha
and the
Gangaridai Empire
of
Bengal .
His army, exhausted and frightened by the prospect of facing larger
Indian armies at the Ganges River, mutinied at the Hyphasis (modern
Beas River ) and refused to march further East. Alexander, after the meeting with his officer,
Coenus , was convinced that it was better to return. The Persian and Greek invasions had important repercussions on Indian
civilization. The political systems of the Persians were to influence
future forms of governance on the subcontinent, including the
administration of the Mauryan dynasty. In addition, the region of
Gandhara, or present-day eastern Afghanistan and northwest Pakistan,
became a melting pot of Indian, Persian, Central Asian, and Greek
cultures and gave rise to a hybrid culture,
Greco-Buddhism , which lasted until the 5th century CE and influenced the artistic development of
Mahayana Buddhism . Maurya Empire Main article:
Maurya Empire Further information:
Chandragupta Maurya ,  Bindusara , and  Ashoka the Great
Maurya Empire
under
Ashoka the Great
Ashokan pillar
at
Vaishali , 3rd century BCE.
The
Maurya Empire
(322–185 BCE), ruled by the Mauryan dynasty, was a geographically
extensive and powerful political and military empire in ancient India.
The empire was established by
Chandragupta Maurya
in
Magadha
what is now
Bihar
and it further flourished under
Ashoka the Great . At its greatest extent, it stretched to the north to the natural boundaries of the
Himalayas
and to the east into what is now
Assam . To the west, it reached beyond modern
Pakistan , annexing
Balochistan
and much of what is now
Afghanistan , including the modern
Herat
and
Kandahar
provinces. The empire was expanded into India's central and southern regions by the emperors Chandragupta and
Bindusara , but it excluded extensive unexplored tribal and forested regions near
Kalinga
which were subsequently taken by Ashoka. Ashoka propagated
Buddhism
and established many Buddhist monuments. Chandragupta's minister
Chanakya
wrote the
Arthashastra ,
one of the greatest treatises on economics, politics, foreign affairs,
administration, military arts, war, and religion produced in Asia.
Archaeologically, the period of Mauryan rule in South Asia falls into
the era of
Northern Black Polished Ware
(NBPW). The
Arthashastra
and the
Edicts of Ashoka
are primary written records of the Mauryan times. The
Lion Capital of Asoka
at
Sarnath , is the national emblem of India. Early Middle Kingdoms — The Golden Age Main article:
Middle Kingdoms of India
Ancient India
during the rise of
Sunga Empire
and
Satavahana Empire .
Kharavela Empire
Kushan Empire
and
Western Satraps
of
Ancient India
in the north along with
Pandyans
and
Early Cholas
in
southern India .
Gupta Empire
The middle period was a time of notable cultural development. The
Satavahana dynasty , also known as the Andhras, ruled in southern and central India after around 230 BCE.
Satakarni , the sixth ruler of the Satvahana dynasty, defeated the
Sunga Empire
of north India. Afterwards,
Kharavela , the warrior king of
Kalinga , [28]
ruled a vast empire and was responsible for the propagation of
Jainism
in the Indian subcontinent. [28]
The Kharavelan Jain empire included a formidable maritime empire with trading routes linking it to
Sri Lanka ,
Burma ,
Thailand ,
Vietnam ,
Cambodia ,
Borneo ,
Bali ,
Sumatra , and
Java . Colonists from Kalinga settled in Sri Lanka, Burma, as well as the
Maldives
and the
Malay Archipelago . The
Kuninda Kingdom
was a small Himalayan state that survived from around the 2nd century BCE to roughly the 3rd century CE. The
Kushanas
migrated from
Central Asia
into northwestern India in the middle of the 1st century CE and founded an empire that eventually stretched from
Tajikistan
to the middle
Ganges . The
Western Satraps
(35-405 CE) were
Saka
rulers of the western and central part of India. They were the successors of the
Indo-Scythians
and contemporaries of the Kushans who ruled the northern part of the
Indian subcontinent and the Satavahana (Andhra) who ruled in central and
southern India. Different dynasties such as the
Pandyans ,
Cholas ,
Cheras ,
Kadambas ,
Western Gangas ,
Pallavas , and
Chalukyas ,
dominated the southern part of the Indian peninsula at different
periods of time. Several southern kingdoms formed overseas empires that
stretched into Southeast Asia. The kingdoms warred with each other and
the
Deccan
states for domination of the south. The
Kalabras , a Buddhist dynasty, briefly interrupted the usual domination of the Cholas, Cheras, and Pandyas in the south. Northwestern hybrid cultures
The founder of the
Indo-Greek Kingdom ,
Demetrius I "the Invincible"
(205–171 BCE). See also:
Indo-Greek kingdom ,
Indo-Scythians ,
Indo-Parthian Kingdom , and
Indo-Sassanids The northwestern hybrid cultures of the subcontinent included the
Indo-Greeks , the
Indo-Scythians , the
Indo-Parthians , and the
Indo-Sassinids . The first of these, the
Indo-Greek kingdom Kingdom , was founded when the
Greco-Bactrian
king
Demetrius
invaded the region in 180 BCE, extending his rule over various parts of
present-day Afghanistan and Pakistan. Lasting for almost two centuries,
the kingdom was ruled by a succession of more than 30 Greek kings, who
were often in conflict with each other. The
Indo-Scythians
were a branch of the Indo-European
Sakas
( Scythians ) who migrated from southern
Siberia , first into
Bactria , subsequently into
Sogdiana ,
Kashmir ,
Arachosia , and
Gandhara ,
and finally into India. Their kingdom lasted from the middle of the 2nd
century BCE to the 1st century BCE. Yet another kingdom, the
Indo-Parthians
(also known as
the Pahlavas ), came to control most of present-day Afghanistan and northern Pakistan, after fighting many local rulers such as the
Kushan
ruler
Kujula Kadphises , in the Gandhara region. The
Sassanid
empire of Persia, who was contemporaneous with the Gupta Empire,
expanded into the region of present-day Balochistan in Pakistan, where
the mingling of Indian culture and the
culture of Iran
gave birth to a hybrid culture under the
Indo-Sassanids . Kushan Empire Main article:
Kushan Empire The
Kushan Empire
expanded out of what is now Afghanistan into the northwest of the subcontinent under the leadership of their first emperor,
Kujula Kadphises , about the middle of the 1st century CE. By the time of his grandson,
Kanishka , (whose era is thought to have begun c. 127 CE), they had conquered most of northern India, at least as far as
Saketa
and
Pataliputra , in the middle Ganges Valley, and probably as far as the
Bay of Bengal . [29]
They played an important role in the establishment of Buddhism in India
and its spread to Central Asia and China. By the 3rd century, their
empire in India was disintegrating; their last known great emperor being
Vasudeva I
(c. 190-225 CE). Roman trade with India Main article:
Roman trade with India
Coin of the Roman emperor
Augustus
found at the
Pudukottai ,
South India . Roman trade with India started around 1 CE, during the reign of
Augustus
and following
his conquest
of
Egypt , which had been India's biggest trade partner in the West. The trade started by
Eudoxus of Cyzicus
in 130 BCE kept increasing, and according to
Strabo
(II.5.12. [30] ), by the time of Augustus, up to 120 ships set sail every year from
Myos Hormos
on the
Red Sea
to India. So much gold was used for this trade, and apparently recycled by the
Kushans
for their own coinage, that
Pliny the Elder
(NH VI.101) complained about the drain of specie to India: "India, China and the Arabian peninsula take one hundred million
sesterces
from our empire per annum at a conservative estimate: that is what our
luxuries and women cost us. For what percentage of these imports is
intended for sacrifices to the gods or the spirits of the dead?" —Pliny, Historia Naturae 12.41.84. [31] The maritime (but not the overland) trade routes, harbours, and trade items are described in detail in the 1st century CE
Periplus of the Erythraean Sea . Gupta rule Main article:
Gupta Empire See also:
Chandra Gupta I ,
Samudragupta ,
Chandra Gupta II ,
Kumaragupta I , and
Skandagupta Further information:
Kalidasa ,  Aryabhata ,  Varahamihira ,  Vishnu Sharma , and  Vatsyayana Further information:
Meghadūta ,  Abhijñānaśākuntala ,  Kumārasambhava ,  Panchatantra ,  Aryabhatiya ,  Indian numerals , and  Kama Sutra
Kalidasa 's
Sanskrit play
Abhijñānaśākuntala
is one of the
Legacy of the Gupta Empire . The
Classical Age
refers to the period when much of the
Indian subcontinent
was reunited under the
Gupta Empire
(c. 320–550 CE). [32] [33]
This period has been called the
Golden Age of India [34]
and was marked by extensive achievements in
science, technology ,
engineering ,
art ,
dialectic ,
literature ,
logic ,
mathematics ,
astronomy ,
religion , and
philosophy
that crystallized the elements of what is generally known as
Hindu culture . [35]
The
decimal numeral system , including the concept of
zero , was invented in India during this period. [36]
The peace and prosperity created under leadership of Guptas enabled the pursuit of scientific and artistic endeavors in India. [37] The high points of this cultural creativity are magnificent architecture, sculpture, and painting. [38]
The Gupta period produced scholars such as
Kalidasa ,
Aryabhata ,
Varahamihira ,
Vishnu Sharma , and
Vatsyayana
who made great advancements in many academic fields. [39]
Science and political administration reached new heights during the
Gupta era. Strong trade ties also made the region an important cultural
center and established it as a base that would influence nearby kingdoms
and regions in
Burma ,
Sri Lanka , the
Malay Archipelago , and
Indochina . The Gupta period marked a watershed of Indian culture: the Guptas
performed Vedic sacrifices to legitimize their rule, but they also
patronized
Buddhism , which continued to provide an alternative to Brahmanical orthodoxy. The military exploits of the first three rulers— Chandragupta I
(c. 319–335),
Samudragupta
(c. 335–376), and
Chandragupta II
(c. 376–415) —brought much of India under their leadership. [40]
They successfully resisted the northwestern kingdoms until the arrival of the
Hunas , who established themselves in Afghanistan by the first half of the 5th century, with their capital at
Bamiyan . [41]
However, much of the
Deccan
and southern India were largely unaffected by these events in the north. [42] [43] Late Middle Kingdoms — The Classical Age Main articles:
Middle Kingdoms of India
,
Badami Chalukyas
,
Rashtrakuta
,
Western Chalukyas
, and
Vijayanagara Empire
Pala Empire
under
Dharmapala
Pala Empire
under
Devapala
Chola Empire
under
Rajendra Chola
c. 1030 C.E.
Badami Chalukya Empire
The
Kanauj
Triangle
was the focal point of
empires
- the
Rashtrakutas
of
Deccan , the
Gurjara Pratiharas
of
Malwa , and the
Palas
of
Bengal . The "Classical Age" in India began with the
Gupta Empire
and the resurgence of the north during
Harsha 's conquests around the 7th century CE, and ended with the fall of the
Vijayanagara Empire
in the south in the 13th century, due to pressure from the invaders to
the north. This period produced some of India's finest art, considered
the epitome of classical development, and the development of the main
spiritual and philosophical systems which continued to be in Hinduism,
Buddhism and Jainism. King Harsha of
Kannauj
succeeded in reuniting northern India during his reign in the 7th
century, after the collapse of the Gupta dynasty. His kingdom collapsed
after his death. From the 7th to the 9th century, three dynasties contested for control of northern India: the
Gurjara Pratiharas
of
Malwa , the
Palas
of
Bengal , and the
Rashtrakutas
of the
Deccan . The
Sena dynasty
would later assume control of the Pala Empire, and the Gurjara
Pratiharas fragmented into various states. These were the first of the
Rajput
states, a series of kingdoms which managed to survive in some form for
almost a millennium, until Indian independence from the British. The
first recorded Rajput kingdoms emerged in
Rajasthan
in the 6th century, and small Rajput dynasties later ruled much of northern India. One
Gurjar [44] [45]
Rajput of the
Chauhan
clan,
Prithvi Raj Chauhan , was known for bloody conflicts against the advancing Islamic sultanates. The
Shahi
dynasty ruled portions of eastern Afghanistan, northern Pakistan, and
Kashmir from the mid-7th century to the early 11th century. The
Chalukya dynasty
ruled parts of southern and central India from
Badami
in
Karnataka
between 550 and 750, and then again from
Kalyani
between 970 and 1190. The
Pallavas
of
Kanchipuram
were their contemporaries further to the south. With the decline of the Chalukya empire, their feudatories, the
Hoysalas
of
Halebidu ,
Kakatiyas
of
Warangal ,
Seuna Yadavas of Devagiri , and a southern branch of the
Kalachuri , divided the vast Chalukya empire amongst themselves around the middle of 12th century. The
Chola Empire
at its peak covered much of the
Indian subcontinent
and
Southeast Asia .
Rajaraja Chola I
conquered all of peninsular south India and parts of
Sri Lanka .
Rajendra Chola I 's navies went even further, occupying coasts from Burma (now
Myanmar ) to
Vietnam , [46]
the
Andaman and Nicobar Islands , the
Lakshadweep
(Laccadive) islands,
Sumatra , and the
Malay Peninsula
in Southeast Asia and the Pegu islands. Later during the middle period, the
Pandyan Empire
emerged in
Tamil Nadu , as well as the
Chera Empire
in
Kerala . By 1343, all these dynasties had ceased to exist, giving rise to the
Vijayanagar empire . The ports of south India were engaged in the
Indian Ocean
trade, chiefly involving spices, with the
Roman Empire
to the west and Southeast Asia to the east. [47] [48]
Literature in local vernaculars and spectacular architecture flourished
until about the beginning of the 14th century, when southern
expeditions of the sultan of Delhi took their toll on these kingdoms.
The Hindu Vijayanagar dynasty came into conflict with the Islamic
Bahmani Sultanate ,
and the clashing of the two systems caused a mingling of the indigenous
and foreign cultures that left lasting cultural influences on each
other. The Vijaynagar Empire eventually declined due to pressure from
the first Delhi sultanates that had managed to establish themselves in
the north around the city of Delhi by that time. The Islamic Sultanates Main article:
Islamic Empires in India See also:
Bahmani Sultanate  and
Deccan Sultanates
Gol Gumbaz
at
Bijapur , has the second largest pre-modern dome in the world after the Byzantine
Hagia Sophia . After conquering Persia, Arab
Islamic Caliphate
incorporated parts of what is now Pakistan around 720 CE. The Muslim rulers were keen to invade India, [49]
which was a rich region, [50]
with a flourishing international trade and the only known diamond mines in the world. In 712 CE an Arab Muslim general called
Muhammad bin Qasim
conquered most of the Indus region in modern day Pakistan, for the
Umayyad
empire, to be made the "As-Sindh" province with its capital at Al-Mansurah, 72 km (45 mi) north of modern
Hyderabad
in
Sindh ,
Pakistan . After several wars including the
Battle of Rajasthan , where the
Hindu
Rajput
clans defeated the
Umayyad
Arabs, their expansion was checked and contained to Sindh in Pakistan [ citation needed ] , many short-lived Islamic kingdoms ( sultanates )
under foreign rulers were established across the north western
subcontinent over a period of a few centuries. Additionally, Muslim
trading communities had flourished throughout coastal south India,
particularly in
Kerala , where Muslim traders arrived in small numbers, mainly from the Arabian peninsula. This had marked the introduction of a third
Abrahamic
Middle Eastern religion, following Judaism and Christianity, often in puritanical form. Later, the
Bahmani Sultanate
and
Deccan sultanates
founded by Turkic rulers, flourished in the south. Delhi Sultanate
Qutub Minar
is the world's tallest brick
minaret , commenced by
Qutb-ud-din Aybak
of the
Slave dynasty . Main article:
Delhi Sultanate In the 12th and 13th centuries,
Turks
and
Afghans
invaded parts of northern India and established the
Delhi Sultanate
in the former
Rajput
holdings. [51]
The subsequent
Slave dynasty
of
Delhi
managed to conquer large areas of northern India, approximately equal in extent to the ancient
Gupta Empire , while the
Khilji dynasty
was also able to conquer most of central India, but were ultimately
unsuccessful in conquering and uniting the subcontinent. The Sultanate
ushered in a period of Indian cultural renaissance. The resulting
"Indo-Muslim" fusion of cultures left lasting syncretic monuments in
architecture, music, literature, religion, and clothing. It is surmised
that the language of
Urdu
(literally meaning "horde" or "camp" in various Turkic dialects) was
born during the Delhi Sultanate period as a result of the intermingling
of the local speakers of Sanskritic
Prakrits
with immigrants speaking
Persian ,
Turkic , and
Arabic
under the Muslim rulers. The Delhi Sultanate is the only Indo-Islamic
empire to have enthroned one of the few female rulers in India,
Razia Sultana
(1236–1240). A
Turco-Mongol
conqueror in Central Asia,
Timur
(Tamerlane), attacked the reigning Sultan Nasir-u Din Mehmud of the
Tughlaq
Dynasty in the north Indian city of
Delhi . [52]
The Sultan's army was defeated on December 17, 1398. Timur entered
Delhi and the city was sacked, destroyed, and left in ruins, after
Timur's army had killed and plundered for three days and nights. He
ordered the whole city to be sacked except for the
sayyids , scholars, and the other Muslims,; 100,000 war prisoners, mostly Hindus, were put to death in one day. [53] The Mughal era
Extent of the
Mughal Empire
in 1700.
Taj Mahal , built by the Mughals Main article:
Mughal Empire In 1526,
Babur , a
Timurid
descendant of
Timur
and
Genghis Khan
from
Fergana Valley (modern day
Uzbekistan ), swept across the
Khyber Pass
and established the
Mughal Empire , covering modern day
Afghanistan ,
Pakistan ,
India
and
Bangladesh . [54]
However, his son
Humayun
was defeated by the Afghan warrior
Sher Shah Suri
in the year 1540, and Humayun was forced to retreat to
Kabul . After Sher Shah's death, his son
Islam Shah Suri
and the Hindu king
Samrat Hem Chandra Vikramaditya , who had won 22 battles from
Punjab
to
Bengal
and had established a secular Hindu Raj, ruled North India from
Delhi
till 1556, when
Akbar 's forces defeated and killed Hemu in the
Second Battle of Panipat
on 6 November 1556. The Mughal dynasty ruled most of the Indian subcontinent by 1600; it
went into a slow decline after 1707 and was finally defeated during the
Indian Rebellion of 1857 ,
also called the 1857 War of Independence. This period marked vast
social change in the subcontinent as the Hindu majority were ruled over
by the Mughal emperors, most of whom showed religious tolerance,
liberally patronising Hindu culture. The famous emperor Akbar, who was
the grandson of Babar, tried to establish a good relationship with the
Hindus. However, later emperors such as
Aurangazeb
tried to establish complete Muslim dominance, and as a result several
historical temples were destroyed during this period and taxes imposed
on non-Muslims. During the decline of the Mughal Empire, several smaller
states rose to fill the power vacuum and themselves were contributing
factors to the decline. In 1739,
Nader Shah , emperor of Iran, defeated the Mughal army at the huge
Battle of Karnal . After this victory, Nader captured and sacked Delhi, carrying away many treasures, including the
Peacock Throne . [55] The Mughals were perhaps the richest single dynasty to have ever
existed. During the Mughal era, the dominant political forces consisted
of the Mughal Empire and its tributaries and, later on, the rising
successor states - including the
Maratha confederacy
- which fought an increasingly weak Mughal dynasty. The Mughals, while
often employing brutal tactics to subjugate their empire, had a policy
of integration with Indian culture, which is what made them successful
where the short-lived Sultanates of Delhi had failed. Akbar the Great
was particularly famed for this. Akbar declared "Amari" or non-killing
of animals in the holy days of Jainism. He rolled back the
jizya
tax for non-Muslims. The Mughal emperors married local royalty, allied themselves with local
maharajas , and attempted to fuse their Turko-Persian culture with ancient Indian styles, creating a unique
Indo-Saracenic architecture .
It was the erosion of this tradition coupled with increased brutality
and centralization that played a large part in the dynasty's downfall
after
Aurangzeb ,
who unlike previous emperors, imposed relatively non-pluralistic
policies on the general population, which often inflamed the majority
Hindu population. Post-Mughal period Main articles:
Maratha Empire ,
Kingdom of Mysore ,
Hyderabad State ,
Sikh Empire ,
Rajputs , and
Durrani Empire See also:
History of Sikhism Further information:
Shivaji ,  Tippu Sultan ,  Nizam ,  Oudh ,  Ranjit Singh , and  Ahmad Shah Abdali
The
Maratha Empire
in 1760. The last
Hindu
empire of
India .
Harmandir Sahib
or
The Golden Temple
is culturally the most significant place of worship for the
Sikhs .
The post-Mughal era was dominated by the rise of the Maratha
suzerainty as other small regional states (mostly late Mughal tributary
states) emerged, and also by the increasing activities of European
powers (see colonial era below). The Maratha kingdom or confederacy was
founded and consolidated by
Shivaji . By the 18th century, it had transformed itself into the
Maratha Empire
under the rule of the
peshwas
(prime ministers). By 1760, the domain of the Marathas stretched across
practically the entire subcontinent. This expansion was brought to an
end by the defeat of the Marathas by an Afghan army led by
Ahmad Shah Durrani
at the
Third Battle of Panipat
(1761). The last
peshwa ,
Baji Rao II , was defeated by the
British
in the
Third Anglo-Maratha War . The Kingdom of Mysore in southern India was founded around 1400 CE by the
Wodeyar dynasty . The rule of the Wodeyars was interrupted by
Hyder Ali
and his son
Tipu Sultan . Under their rule, Mysore fought a
series of wars
sometimes against the combined forces of the British and Marathas, but
mostly against the British, with Mysore receiving some aid or promise of
aid from the
French . Hyderabad was founded by the
Qutb Shahi dynasty
of
Golconda
in 1591. Following a brief Mughal rule, Asif Jah, a Mughal official, seized control of Hyderabad and declared himself
Nizam-al-Mulk of Hyderabad
in 1724. It was ruled by a hereditary Nizam from 1724 until 1948. Both
Mysore and Hyderabad became princely states in British India. The Punjabi kingdom, ruled by members of the
Sikh religion , was a political entity that governed the region of modern-day
Punjab . This was among the last areas of the subcontinent to be conquered by the British. The
first
and
second Anglo-Sikh war
marked the downfall of the
Sikh Empire . Around the 18th century, the modern state of
Nepal
was formed by
Gurkha
rulers. Colonial era Main article:
Colonial India Vasco da Gama 's maritime success to discover for Europeans a new sea route to India in 1498 paved the way for direct Indo-European commerce. [56]
The
Portuguese
soon set up trading-posts in
Goa ,
Daman ,
Diu
and
Bombay . The next to arrive were the
Dutch , the
British —who set up a trading-post in the west-coast port of
Surat [57]
in 1619—and the
French .
The internal conflicts among Indian Kingdoms gave opportunities to the
European traders to gradually establish political influence and
appropriate lands. Although these continental European powers were to
control various coastal regions of southern and eastern India during the
ensuing century, they would eventually lose all their territories in
India to the British islanders, with the exception of the French
outposts of
Pondicherry
and
Chandernagore , the Dutch port of
Travancore , and the Portuguese colonies of
Goa ,
Daman , and
Diu . Company rule in India Main articles:
East India Company
and
Company rule in India
Map of India in 1857 at the end of Company rule. The
British East India Company
had been given permission by the Mughal emperor Jahangir in 1617 to trade in India. [58]
Gradually their increasing influence led the
de-jure
Mughal emperor
Farrukh Siyar
to grant them
dastaks
or permits for duty free trade in
Bengal
in 1717. [59]
The
Nawab of Bengal
Siraj Ud Daulah , the
de facto
ruler of the Bengal province, opposed British attempts to use these permits. This led to the
Battle of Plassey
in 1757, in which the 'army' of East India Company, led by
Robert Clive ,
defeated the Nawab's forces. This was the first political foothold with
territorial implications that the British acquired in India. Clive was
appointed by the Company as its first 'Governor of Bengal' in 1757. [60]
This was combined with British victories over the French at
Madras ,
Wandiwash
and
Pondicherry
that, along with wider
British successes during the Seven Years War , reduced French influence in India. After the
Battle of Buxar
in 1764, the Company acquired the civil rights of administration in Bengal from the Mughal Emperor
Shah Alam II ;
it marked the beginning of its formal rule, which was to engulf
eventually most of India and extinguish the Moghul rule and dynasty
itself in a century. [61]
The East India Company monopolized the trade of Bengal. They introduced a land taxation system called the
Permanent Settlement
which introduced a
feudal -like structure (See
Zamindar )
in Bengal. By the 1850s, the East India Company controlled most of the
Indian sub-continent, which included present-day Pakistan and
Bangladesh. Their policy was sometimes summed up as
Divide and Rule , taking advantage of the enmity festering between various princely states and social and religious groups. British Raj Main articles:
British Raj
and
Indian rebellion of 1857
The British Indian Empire at its greatest extent (in a map of 1909) The first major movement against the British Company's high handed rule resulted in the
Indian Rebellion of 1857 ,
also known as the "Indian Mutiny" or "Sepoy Mutiny" or the "First War
of Independence". After a year of turmoil, and reinforcement of the East
India Company's troops with British soldiers, the Company overcame the
rebellion. The nominal leader of the uprising, the last Mughal emperor
Bahadur Shah Zafar ,
was exiled to Burma, his children were beheaded and the Moghul line
abolished. In the aftermath all power was transferred from the East
India Company to the
British Crown ,
which began to administer most of India as a colony; the Company's
lands were controlled directly and the rest through the rulers of what
it called the
Princely states . There were 565 princely states when the Indian subcontinent gained independence from Britain in August 1947. [62] During the British Raj,
famines in India , often attributed to failed government policies, were some of the worst ever recorded, including the
Great Famine of 1876–78 , in which 6.1 million to 10.3 million people died [63]
and the
Indian famine of 1899–1900 , in which 1.25 to 10 million people died. [63]
The
Third Plague Pandemic
started in China in the middle of the 19th century, spreading plague to
all inhabited continents and killing 10 million people in India alone. [64]
Despite persistent diseases and famines, however, the population of the
Indian subcontinent , which stood at about 125 million in 1750, had reached 389 million by 1941. [65] The Indian Independence movement Main articles:
Indian independence movement
and
Pakistan Movement See also:
Mahatma Gandhi  and
Freedom fighters of India
Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi
and
Muhammad Ali Jinnah , Bombay, 1944. The physical presence of the British in India was not significant.
Yet the British were able to rule two-thirds of the subcontinent
directly, and exercise considerable leverage over the
Princely States
that accounted for the remaining one-third. The British employed " Divide and Rule " in
British India
as a means of preventing an uprising against the Raj. [66] In this environment of Hindu-Muslim disunity, the first step toward
Indian independence and western-style democracy was taken with the
appointment of Indian councilors to advise the British
viceroy , [67]
and with the establishment of provincial Councils with Indian members;
the councillors' participation was subsequently widened in legislative
councils. [68]
From 1920 leaders such as
Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi
began highly popular mass movements to campaign against the British
Raj, using largely peaceful methods. Some others adopted militant
approach that sought to overthrow British rule by armed struggle;
revolutionary activities
against the British rule took place throughout the Indian
sub-continent. The Gandhi led independence movement, opposed the British
rule using non-violent methods like
non-cooperation ,
civil disobedience
and
economic resistance . These movements succeeded in bringing independence to the Indian sub-continent in 1947. Independence and Partition Main articles:
Partition of India ,
History of the Republic of India ,
History of Pakistan , and
History of Bangladesh Along with the desire for independence, tensions between Hindus and
Muslims had also been developing over the years. The Muslims had always
been a minority, and the prospect of an exclusively Hindu government
made them wary of independence; they were as inclined to mistrust Hindu
rule as they were to resist the foreign Raj, although
Gandhi
called for unity between the two groups in an astonishing display of leadership. The British, extremely weakened by the
World War II , promised that they would leave and participated in the formation of an
interim government . The
British Indian
territories gained independence in 1947, after being
partitioned
into the
Union of India
and
Dominion of Pakistan . Following the controversial division of pre-partition
Punjab
and
Bengal ,
rioting broke out between Sikhs, Hindus and Muslims in these provinces
and spread to several other parts of India, leaving some 500,000 dead. [69]
Also, this period saw one of the largest mass migrations ever recorded
in modern history, with a total of 12 million Hindus, Sikhs and Muslims
moving between the newly created nations of
India
and
Pakistan
(which gained independence on 15 and 14 August 1947 respectively). [69]
In 1971,
Bangladesh , formerly
East Pakistan
and
East Bengal , seceded from Pakistan. The histories of each of these modern nations can be found on the respective pages shown above.
Hindu God and Goddess
Hindus view cosmic activity of the Supreme Being as comprised of three
tasks: creation, preservation, and dissolution and recreation. Hindus
associate
these three cosmic tasks with the three deities, Brahma, Vishnu and
Shiva. Lord Brahma brings forth the creation and represents the creative
principle of the Supreme Being.
Lord Vishnu
maintains the universe and represents
the eternal
principle of preservation. Lord Shiva represents the principle of
dissolution and recreation. These three deities together form the Hindu
Trinity.
Hindu religion is often labeled as a religion of 330 million gods.
According to the Hindu scriptures, living beings are not apart from God,
since He lives in each and every one of them in the form of atman (BG
10.39). The
number
330 million
was simply used to give a symbolic expression to the fundamental Hindu
doctrine that God lives in the hearts of all living beings.
Hinduism is supposed to be 'apauruseya', i.e., of
impersonal
origin & so also are the Gods of Hinduism. They are eternal &
though the deities appear to be different & independent, they are
really facets of the same Brahman, the Supreme God.
As Sri Ramakrishna says, there can be as many spiritual paths as there
are spiritual aspirants & similarly there can really be as many Gods
as there are devotees to
suit
the moods, feelings, emotions & social background of the devotees.
The Hindu scriptures were eloquent while describing the qualities of God. He is all-knowing & all powerful. He is the very
personification
of justice, love & beauty. He is ever ready to shower His grace, mercy & blessings on His creation.
From the Rig Veda, we come to know of the vedic gods eight Vasus, eleven
Rudras, twelve Adityas, Indra & Prajapathi, being the Gods of
earth, the heavens & the space.
The main Hindu Gods as we accept today can be broadly classified as
Saiva Gods (Siva, His consort, His sons, His other forms), Vaishnava
Gods (Vishnu, His consort, His various avatharams)& Sakthi or Saktha
(Forms of Goddess Sakthi).
HISTORY INDIA : India's History : Timeline of India
Agni
Brahma
Durga
Ganesha
Kubera
Hanumana
Indra
Kali
Shani
Vishwakarma
Krishna
Lakshmi
Rama
Kartikeya
Ayyappa
Saraswati
Shiva
Surya
Vishnu
Ganga
Hindu Temples
India, historically referred to the territory bound by the Hindu Kush
and the Himalayas, is a country full of wonderful temples. These
unmatched and artistic architectures contribute richly to the Indian
cultural heritage. Temples are found everywhere in India, in
villages
and in towns. The earliest temples are the rock cut and cave temples in India.
Ancient era was the witness when religious practices flourished the most
and temples became the world's storehouse of knowledge and culture..
The ancient
temples are more than mere places of worship. These are sacred
buildings
of ultimate grace and eternal hapiness.
The temples of the Medieval Era were varied architectural styles. The
temples and the religious places built then were symbolic of
the ruler
and his richness and devotion. The seeds of experimentation in religious architecture were sown in medeival temples.
India has many splendid temples that have found a place in World
Heritage list. These temples are cynosure of all for their marvellous
architecture. These pronounce the age old customs and traditions of
India. These include Sun Temple at Konark, Khajuraho Temples, Ajanta
Caves, Brihadeswara Temple, and Sanchi Stupas.
Here is a detailed discussion on the history, and stylistics of some of
the great temples of India. Although battered by the destructive forces
of time,
weather , and invading forces, the temples of India remain as
the greatest
legacy of the glory of the ancient Indians. Here is an exclusive list of ancient temples that have been a
symbol
of faith and religio.
Hindu Temple
Hindu
Temple - Akshar Dham Temple
Akshardham Temple In the long history of man's
endeavor to grasp the fundamental truth of being, the sages and profound
thinkers of early India have helped in solving the problems of the origin,
the nature and the destiny of man and the universe. Since then temple has
acted as the entrance of self-realization and God. Akshardham is not just a
temple, but a place of education, entertainment and enlightenment. There
are 73 richly patterned and 63 partially carved pillars.
Spread across a 23-acres, this
complex is flooded with shrines, sculptures, parks, lakes and rides. All
these come together to create the most powerful experience of Indian
culture ever to exist. Dedicated to Lord Swaminarayan and inspired by Pujya
Pramukh Swami Maharaj, Akshardham is a miracle worked by the service and
devotion of thousands of volunteers.
The imposing 10 story high monument
is made entirely of intricately carved, 6000 tons of pink sand-stone from
Rajasthan, with no steel or cement used at all, ensuring that the monument
will last for a thousand years. More than 12 million man hours of 900
skilled craftsmen have created this magnificent monument of 93 sculpted
pillars, 40 windows carved from both sides, and a feast of forms and
filigrees. Built inch to inch according to the ancient Sthaapatya shastras
of India, no steel has been used. Support beams are 22 ft. single piece
stone blocks. The pillars are poetry in stone, with beautiful expression
from foot to crown.
Hindu Temple - Bahai Temple
Bahai Temple - Lotus Temple It is a very recent architectural marvel of the Bahai faith, located in Kalkaji, south of Delhi. Shaped like a half opened Lotus flower, this temple is made of marble, cement, dolomite and sand. It is open to all faiths and is an ideal place for meditation and obtaining peace and tranquility. Bahai's Temple is a marvel of modern architecture, which is visible from several spots in south Delhi. The lotus flower signifies purity and peace, a representation of the Manifestation of God, to the people of India. This ancient symbol has been given a modern and contemporary form in the structure of the Bahai House of Worship drawing into its sanctum sanctorum people from all races, religious backgrounds and culture from around the globe. It represents the Bahai faith, - an independent world religion; divine in origin, all embracing in scope, broad in its outlook, scientific in its method, humanitarian in its principles, and dynamic in the influence.
The Bahai Faith
The Bahá'í Faith is the youngest of the world's independent religions. Its founder, Bahá'u'lláh (1817-1892), is regarded by Bahá'ís as the most recent in the line of Messengers of God that stretches back beyond recorded time and that includes Abraham, Moses, Buddha, Zoroaster, Christ and Muhammad.
The central theme of Bahá'u'lláh's message is that humanity is one single race and that the day has come for its unification in one global society. God, Bahá'u'lláh said, has set in motion historical forces that are breaking down traditional barriers of race, class, creed, and nation and that will, in time, give birth to a universal civilization. The principal challenge facing the peoples of the earth is to accept the fact of their oneness and to assist the processes of unification.
One of the purposes of the Bahá'í Faith is to help make this possible. A worldwide community of some five million Bahá'ís, representative of most of the nations, races and cultures on earth, is working to give Bahá'u'lláh's teachings practical effect. Their experience will be a source of encouragement to all who share their vision of humanity as one global family and the earth as one homeland.
Bahai Houses of Worship
Bahai house of worship are open to all peoples. Although their architectural styles differ widely, the nine sides and central dome common to all of them symbolize at once the diversity of the human race and its essential oneness. Devotional programs are simple, consisting of prayers, meditations, and the reading of selections from the sacred scriptures of the Bahá'í Faith and other world religions. Music is provided by unaccompanied choirs.
The Grand Structure of Bahai Temple
In the raising of the House of Worship in New Delhi traditional Indian means of construction were employed coupled with the most modern Western engineering design. Fariborz Sahba, Canadian architect of Iranian origin, spent 10 years in designing and project management, and with the help of a team of about 800 engineers, technicians, artisans and workers brought to realisation one of the most complicated constructions in the world. Rising pure and unsullied above stagnant, muddy waters, the Indians have seen this flower as worthy of emulation, teaching them to be detached from material preoccupations.
This temple joins six other Bahai temples around the world. Each of these Houses while sharing some basic design concepts, has its own distinct cultural identity embodying the principle of unity in diversity. The structure of the House is composed of three ranks of nine petals; each springing from a podium elevating the building above the surrounding plain. The first two ranks curve inward, embracing the inner dome; the third layer curves outward to form canopies over the nine entrances. The petals, constructed of reinforced white concrete cast in place, are clad in white marble panels, performed to surface profiles and patterns related to the geometry. Nine arches that provide the main support for the superstructure ring the central hall. Nine reflecting pools surround the building on the outside, their form suggesting the green leaves of the lotus flower. Translating the geometry of the design, in which there are virtually no straight lines, into the actual structure presented particular challenges in designing and erecting the framework.
Not only was it difficult to align, so as to produce accurately the complex double-curved surfaces and their intersections, but also the closeness of the petals severely restricted workspace. Nevertheless the task was carried out entirely by the local labourers. Thanks to each one who contributed in its construction. To avoid construction joints, petals were concreted in a continuous operation for approximately 48 hours. Concrete was carried up the staging by women bearing 50-pound loads in baskets balanced on their heads. All the steel reinforcing for the shells of the lotus petals was galvanised to avoid rust stains on the white concrete in the prevailing humid conditions, guaranteeing the life of the delicate shell structure of 6 to 18 cm thick shells of the petals. India is well endowed with human resources.
The architect believes that this design could not have been executed anywhere else because it is rare to find the combination of traditional craftsmanship, pride in one's work, empathy for spiritual undertaking, perseverance under all odds and ample patience, as can be found in the Indian sub-continent. As commented by progressive Architecture of USA in their article on the Bahai Temple "It goes to prove that high-tech concepts do not always demand high-tech solutions." The Indian visitors, from the most sophisticated to the most simple, expressed perplexity at the absence of any idols. It has been a hard task since explaining to them that the all-pervasive Almighty cannot be put in any limited form. Hence, over the years the visitors from India have begun to understand that the purpose of the Bahai House of Worship is to unite the hearts of the people and bring them closer to their Creator.
Since its inauguration to public worship in December 1986, the Bahai House of Worship has drawn to its portals more than 50 million visitors, making it the most visited edifice in the world. People have come regardless of the scorching summer heat of Delhi, which sometimes rises above 40°C during the months of June to September, and have braced the chill and cold rains that Delhi experiences during winter. They have admired the beautiful lotus form of the Temple, and have been fascinated by the teachings of the Bahai Faith, which believes in oneness of God, oneness of religions and oneness of mankind.
Hindu Temple - Baijnath Temple
Baijnath Temple Baijnath temple is the most amazing monuments of the Bias valley. The village is located 23 miles east of Nagarkot. It is near the Mandi border and on the main road which guides from the Punjab plains during Lahul, Kangra, Kulu and Ladakh to Central Asia and consists of an adytum or puri, 8 sq.ft. inside and 18 sq.ft.outside, prevailed by a spire of the regular conical shape, and a mandapa, 20 sq.ft.inside, covered with a low pyramid shaped roof.
Baijnath temple is a small township in the Dhauladhar range of western Himalayas. It is located at Palampur 16 km in the Kangra District of Himachal Pradesh. It is well-known for thirteen century temple devoted to Siva as Vaidyanath, 'the Lord of physicians'. The current name Baijnath became well-liked after the temple name. The town is situated on the left bank of the river Binwa. It is a stream of river Beas.
Architecture of Baijnath Temple
The temple of Baijnath is built in the Nagri style. The temple of roof is in the pyramid shape with 2.5 square meters from inside and about covering the area of 5.5 square meters from outside the temple places. The temple of Mandap (conical shaped dome) obtains support from the 4 artistic large pillars. This temple is an only example of architect of Kangra.
In 1204 AD, Raja Sansar Chand was built in the Bajinath Temple. The temple is located at Kangara a distance of 36 km east. Lord Shiva temple is situated on the stretch of Mandi in Palampur road. The Lord Shiva temple is well-known for the Linga. Every year the Baijnath temple is a lot of devotees to get blessing from Lord. During the March visit to tourist to this sacred temple of Bajinath to enjoy the bright festival of 'Shivrati'.
Baijnath Temple - Shivratri Festival
Baijnath temple is also known as 'Shivratri Festival'. In the March, the festival is renowned to mark the marriage ceremony of Lord Shiva. During this festival number of pilgrims turned up. The year, on this favorable day, it is the Lord Shiva married to Goddess Parvati. The festival is renowned all through the night includes of several ceremonies and rituals. Here every year a 5 day state level function is held on Maha Shivratri.
How to reach
The temple is accessible by road from Kangra, Palampur, Dharamsala and all the main cities of Himachal Pradesh. Tourist can use private taxis and get state transport buses.
Hindu Temple - Birla Temple
Birla Temple The Laxmi Narayan Mandir (temple) built by B.D. Birla is a modern Hindu temple dedicated to Laxmi (goddess of wealth) and Narayana (the preserver). It was inaugurated by Gandhi with the stipulation that it should be open to all castes (including the untouchables) and all faiths, so it is more welcoming to foreigners than the average temple.
After visiting so many ancient Hindu temples, it was fun to see a modern functioning one. The whole temple was quite garish, and noisy with chants over the loud speaker system, but it was also strangely peaceful. In the garden there was a tree wound with colored strings, and two women were praying at the foot.
This temple was built over a six year period (1933 - 1939) and was opened by Mahatma Gandhi.
The highest tower in the temple reaches a height of 165 feet while the ancillary towers reach 116 feet. The Geeta Bhavan, a hall is adorned with beautiful paintings depicting scenes from Indian mythology. There is also a temple dedicated to Buddha in this complex with fresco paintings describing his life and work. The entire complex, especially the walls and the upper gallery are full of paintings carried out by artists from Jaipur in Rajasthan. The rear of the temple has been developed as an artificial mountainous landscape with fountains and waterfalls.
This is one of the landmarks in the nation's capital New Delhi. It was built in the 20th century by the Birla family of industrialists known for its many other temples in India. It is modern in concept and construction. It attracts several devotees and international tourists. The presiding deity here is Lakshmi Narain (Vishnu).
Other Shrines in the temple Durga and Shiva are the other major deities housed in this temple. Mention must be made of the Buddha temple in this complex. Access and Accommodation: Accomodation is available in the temple guest house for out of town travellers especially for international scholars pursuing knowledge in Sanskrit or in the Hindu religion.
Hindu Temple - Badami, Cave Temple
Cave (Badami) Temple Situated in North Karnataka, Badami was founded by Pulakesin I in the 6th century A.D and was once the capital of the Chalukya empire. The Chalukyas are to be acknowledged with path-finding a new architectural style, examples of which can be seen in Badami, Aihole, Pattadakal and other neighboring areas. They built a number of temples, and other monuments that marked the beginning of the Hindu style of architecture. This new style combined the best of two distinct styles - the North Indian, Indo-Aryan Nagara style and the South Indian Dravidian style. Known as the Chalukyan style, this style is manifested in many cave temples, dedicated to Brahmanical deities, as well as the many Buddhist and Jain monasteries in the region.
The caves found here are as follows
Cave 1 :
The first cave made of red sandstone, dates back to 578 A.D. and was probably the first to be carved. One has to climb up 40 odd steps to reach the colonnaded verandah, a hall with numerous pillars and a square shaped sanctum hollowed in the control back wall.
Cave 2 :
Dedicated to lord Vishnu depicted here as a dwarf or 'Trivikrama' of awesome dimensions with one foot mastering the Earth and the other the sky, the second cave is atop a sandstone hill.
Cave 3 :
Still going higher up one comes across this cave antedating 578 A.D. The facade of the cave is nearly 70 feet wide, on the plinth one can see the carvings of ganas. The sheer artistry and sculptural genius makes this cave the highlight of Deccan art.
Cave 4 :
The only Jain cave, the construction of Cave four started in the 6th century and completed after nearly 100 years later then the earlier three caves.
Hindu Temple - Chattarpur Temple
Chattarpur Temple Situated in the capital of India, the Chattarpur Mandir is a fine example which presents Delhi a place that has some spectacular Hindu Temples to it's credit. 4-km away from Qutb Minar, stands the flamboyant and rich temples of Chattarpur. Made of shining white marble, these temples are very popular with the city's Hindus and the queues during Durga Puja have to be seen to be believed. The main temple dedicated to goddess Durga is built in South Indian style.
The temple complex is spread over a large area with beautiful lawns and gardens. Though devotees visit these temples throughout the year, the main attraction comes during the Navarathri festival, when devotees come from far and near. During this time, there are special bus services provided to the devotees.
Hindu Temple - Dwarkadhish Temple
Dwarkadhish Temple Gujarat has been a gateway of commerce and culture between the East and the West and is one of the oldest civilizations on the earth. Dwarka is one of four most scared pilgrimage centers (Chardham) of Hindu faith and is associated with Lord Krishna's life. The main giant ornate shrine is situated on the western most tip of saurastra. According to the epic Mahabharata, the city in due course was submerged by the sea. The submergence of Dwarka and the cause of submergence are of historical and oceanographic interest because of historic Dwarka is likely to throw light on the Dark Age of Indian history.
Ornate, exquisite and majestic, Dwarkadhish Temple (Jagat Mandir) is one of the most imposing five- storied structures of Hindu architecture in Gujarat on the confluence of river Gomti and Arabian sea. The five-storey high temple is built on seventy-two pillars. The temple spire is 78.3m high. From the temple dome waves an eighty-four foot long multicolored flag decorated with the symbols of the sun and moon. Lord Krishna's grandson, Vajranabha, is said to have built the original temple of Dwarkadhish over the hari-griha (Lord Krishna's residential place).
The sanctum of the temple is formed by the Jagat Mandir, or Nija Mandir, which dates back at least 2500 years. The Jagat Mandir has a tall tower and a hall of audience. There are two entrances to the temple. The main entrance (north entrance) is called "Moksha Dwara" (Door to Salvation). This entrance leads to the main market. The south entrance is called "Swarga Dwara" (Gate to Heaven). Outside this doorway are 56 steps that lead to the Gomati River.
Hindu Temple - Dwarka Temple
Dwarka Temple Dwarka, on the west coast of Gujarat on the shore of the Arabian Sea, features in most of the legends surrounding Lord Krishna. It is from here that the grown Lord Krishna is supposed to have ruled his kingdom. Dwarka is a significant pilgrimage site for the Hindus.
Dwarka is sanctified as the place where Lord Vishnu slew the demon Shankhasura. The Puranas mention the 12 Jyotirlingas or columns of light representing Lord Shiva which manifested in different parts of the country. One of these is located in Dwarka and is known as the Nageshwar Mahadev. The Jagat Mandir or Nij Mandir forms the sanctum of the Dwarkadish temple and dates back to 2500 years. Jagat Mandir has its own hall of audience and a conical spire. The roof of the hall is supported by 60 columns and the main temple rises five storeys high. The spire rises to a height of 157 feet and is richly carved. One of the most popular temples in Dwarka is that of Rukmini, Krishna's wife, considered an incarnation of Goddess Lakshmi, the goddess of wealth and beauty. The Sharad Peetha, one of the four Maths established by Jagatguru Shankaracharya, is also situated here.
Dwarka is situated in the extreme west of the Indian state of Gujarat in the Saurashtra peninsula on the Arabian Sea. It lies on 20°22' north latitude and 69°05' east longitude. The city is built on the right bank of Gamut creek.
Dwarka is an important pilgrimage center. It is steeped in legends, being associated with the life of Lord Krishna. In Puranic times, present-day Dwarka was known as Kushasthali or Dwaravati and enjoyed pride of place as the most important spot on the Saurashtra coast. It is said that Lord Krishna, after slaying Kansa, left his abode at Mathura and traveled with the entire Yadava community to the coast of Saurashtra where he founded a town and named it Swarnadwarika.
Vajranabh, Lord Krishna's successor and great grandson, is believed to have built the present temple Dwarkanath, also called Trilok Sundar. Many Hindus fervently believe that the temple was erected in one night by a supernatural agency, under Vajranabh's direction. Legend has it that when dying, Lord Krishna asked his devotees to leave Swarnadwarika so that the sea could engulf it. Until this day, Lord Krishna's city lies buried under the sea. Excavations have revealed that the sea swallowed five settlements, the present-day Dwarka being the sixth in line.
The temple of Dwarkadheesh, also known as Jagat Mandir, is built on the north bank of the Gomti Creek. The temple dates back to 2,500 years. Architecturally the temple is constructed on the same plan and system as most of the Hindu sacred edifices of antiquity. Sixty columns support the roof of the audience hall of the Jagat Mandir. The main temple is five-story high with the lavishly carved conical spire rising to a height of 157 feet. There is the one-meter tall, four handed black idol of Ranchhodrai, the ruler of Dwarika. Amongst the large number of temples belonging to different periods in the history of Dwarka, the most popular with pilgrims is the temple of Rukmini, Lord Krishna's wife, who is considered an incarnation of Lakshmi, the goddess of wealth and beauty.
In addition to its temples and legends, Dwarka is also sanctified as the seat of Adi Shankaracharya, who established four seats (maths) in four different directions in the country. Research work in Sanskrit is carried on at the Shankaracharya's seat known as Sharad Peetha.
Rukmini Devi Temple
This small temple, 1.5km north of town, is an architectural masterpiece. Rukmini is the most important of Krishna's 16,108 wives. The temple walls are decorated with beautiful paintings depicting her pastimes with Krishna. This temple is said to date back to the 12th century.
The story behind this temple is that one day, Durvasa Muni, who is easily angered, was invited by Lord Krishna and his wife, Rukmini, to dinner. When a person is invited to dinner, etiquette dictates that the host should not eat until the guest has been satisfied. On the way to dinner, Rukmini became thirsty and asked Krishna for help. Krishna then put his foot in the ground and the Ganges waters flowed forth from the earth while Durvasa was not looking. As Rukmini was drinking the water, however, Durvasa turned and saw her drinking without his permission. He became angry and cursed her to live apart from Lord Krishna. That is why Krishna's temple is in the town and hers is located outside the town.
Gomati Ghat Temples
Gomati, the descended Ganges, meets the sea at Chakra-tirtha Ghat. To take bath where the Gomati meets the ocean is said to offer liberation. If you go out the back entrance of the Dwarkadish Temple, you can see the Gomati River. The temple is located almost at the spot where the Gomati meets the ocean.
The Samudra Narayana Temple (Sangam Narayana) is an imposing temple at the confluence of the Gomati and the sea. Panchanada Tirtha consists of five sweet-water wells surrounded by seawater. At Chakra Narayana, Lord Vishnu was manifested as a stone marked with a chakra on the seashore. The Gomatiji Temple has an image of the Gomati River in it, said to have been brought down from heaven by Vasistha Muni.
Other Pilgriamge Attractions
Nageswara Mahadeva Temple contains one of the twelve Siva Jyotirlingas in an underground sanctum. It is located 10km from Dwarka.
Gopi-tallava is the kund (pond) where Lord Krishna met the gopis when they came to see him at Dwarka. The sacred clay from Gopi-tallava is known as gopi-candana and is used by devotees of Krishna to make the tilak marks on their bodies. It is 20km north of Dwarka on the way to Bet Dwarka.
Bhalka Tirth
The spot where Lord Krishna was mistaken for a deer and struck by a arrow hile sleeping in a deerskin. It is said Lord Krishna was cremated at Dehotsarga at Triveni Ghat.
Closeby lies Somnath with its shrine built by Soma, the Moon God. The Majestic monument as it stands today is a recent replication of the earlier construction. It is said that the original temple built by the Moon God was of gold. After it was razed to the ground it was rebuilt by Ravana in silver. When the silver temple was knocked down it was reconstructed in wood by Krishna and when this was pulled down an edifice of stone was erected by Bhimdev. Relics of the old Somnath shrine have been preserved in a museum housed in a temple. An interesting Sun Temple is also located in Somnath. Somnath is also one of the 12 Jyotirlingas or Shiva shrines in India.
Janmashtami (birthday of Lord Krishna), celebrated in the month of August/September, is a major festival of Dwarka.
Hindu Temple - Golden Temple
Golden Temple The Golden Temple or Darbar Sahib, situated in Amritsar, Punjab, is the most sacred temple for Sikhs. It is a symbol of the magnificence and strength of the Sikh people all over the world. In the evolution of the Darbar Sahib, is entwined the history and ideology of Sikhism. In its architecture are included, symbols associated with other places of worship. This is an example of the spirit of tolerance and acceptance that the Sikh philosophy propounds. The history of the Darbar Sahib starts with Guru Amar Das, who took the first steps towards building a shrine. Around the Golden Temple, the holy city of Amritsar came into being. His successor, Guru Ram Das, came to live near this tranquil and peaceful site, and started building the pilgrimage centre around the small pool, (later to become the Sarowar) which had intially drawn Guru Amar Das.
By the time of Guru Ram Das' death, the pre eminence of the Darbar Sahib among the sikh devotees was unquestionable.
The Harmandir Sahib, or the sanctum sanctorium, was envisoned by Guru Arjan Dev. This was concieved by him to reflect the resoluteness, clarity and simplicity of the Sikh relegion. The Harmindir Sahib today stands as the hallowed symbol of the indestructability of the Sikh faith.
The gilding, marble, mirror and inlay work on the Harmandir Sahib came much later. It was the nineteenth century during the reign of Maharaja Ranjit Singh, that the proud people of Punjab lavished their wealth on their shrine in Amritsar.
The Granth Sahib, the holy book of the Sikhs, was installed in the Harmandir Sahib in 1604, three years after its completion. The location of the Granth Sahib here, adds to the sanctity & reverence of the Harmandir Sahib. Here lies the heart of Sikhism. This symbol of abiding faith and tolerance is held in high esteem by every Sikh. And this is the place which every Sikh dreams, ever so often, of visiting.
Hindu Temple - Guruvayoor Temple
Guruvayoor Temple The fourth biggest temple in India in terms of the number of devotees per day, Guruvayoor Temple dedicated to Lord Krishna. Though the devotees worship him as Lord Krishna, the deity is that of a complete man incarnation of Lord Maha Vishnu with four arms. This shrine is popularly known as the Dwaraka of south and is in the form of a rectangle. There are a lot of mural paintings around the Shrine. Being one of the most sacred and important pilgrim centres of Kerala, it is probably the only temple in the state that hosts the maximum number of marriages and rice feeding ceremony, the ritual first meal for infants.
The Guru along with his disciple Vayudeva (god of air), found a place which was recommended by Lord Paramashiva. Thus the Guru and Vayu installed this deity and Paramashiva named the place as Guruvayoor. The idol is carved out a stone called 'Pathala Anjana Sila' and is utmost sacred. The place selected for the installation was suitably sacred by the presence of Lord Shiva.
The outer enclosure has a 33.5-m tall gold-plated flag post and there is also a 7 m high pillar of lamps, whose thirteen circular receptacles provide a truly brilliant spectacle, when lit. The square 'Sreekovil' is the sacred sanctum sanctorum of the temple, housing the main deity. Within the temple, there are also the images of Ganapathy, Sree Ayyappa and Edathedathy Kavil Bhagavathy. Only Hindus are allowed inside the temple.
Hindu Temple - ISKCON Temple
ISKCON Temple A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami Prabhupada is the founder acharya of the hare krishna movement. Completed in 1998, this is a complex of temples. The International Society for Krishna Consciousness (ISKCON) was initially raised as a spiritual society in New York to Propagate the message of the Bhagwad Gita. It was founded by Swami Prabhupada. In India there are about 40 ISKCON temples. Contemplating the traditions of the ancient Vaishnava tradition, its philosophy and practice, these spiritual temples have left a mark on all mankind. Visiting these temples proves to be a pleasant and revealing experience.
ISKCON temples are dedicated to Lord Krishna and were built by the Hare-Rama Hare-Krishna cult followers. These complexes are elegantly built and are few of the largest temple complexes in India. There are beautiful paintings of Russian artists on the different past times of Radha Krishna, Sita, Ram, Laxman, Hanuman and Chaitanya Mahaprabhu. Special programmes like Kirtan, Aarti, Pravachan and Prasadam are held every Sunday.
Famous ISKCON Temples In India
ISKCON
Temple, Delhi
For many this is just a temple, for finding solace, peace and quiet.
Sitting amongst Lord Krishna and his devotees with Hare Krishna chants
going around is indeed an experience. But for those who are seeking more,
there is so much to learn and see, than what meets the eye.
ISKCON
Temple, Bangalore, Karnataka
The ISKCON Temple was built recently by the International Society for
Krishna Consciousness. As you climb the granite steps you will encounter
three small shrines before the main temple. The three idols of Lord
Krishna in the main shrine are made of brass.
ISKCON
Temple, Vrindavan, Uttar Pradesh
It is located within the premises of the Krishna-Baldev Temple in
Vrindavan. Beautiful paintings depicting the life of Lord Krishna adorn
the galleries leading to the main temple. ISKCON devotees from various
parts of the world can be spotted manning the library or ISKCON book
stalls and partaking in temple rituals.
ISKCON
Chandradoya Mandir, Mayapur, West Bengal
This is the international headquarters of ISKCON. Surrounded by: a Vedic
city, the main Deities are Sri Radha Madhava. The Deities are larger than
life-size. There are also eight Gopis, four on each side of Radha-Madhava.
Also on the main altar is a small set of Radha-Krishna Deities. On the
left altar are Deities of the "Pancha-Tattva-Advaita Acarya",
Lord Nityananda, Lord Chaitanya, Gadadhara, and Srivasa Thakur. To the
left of this altar is another altar with an impressive Deity of Lord
Narasimha.
·
Hindu Temple - Jagannath Temple
·
Jagannath Temple ·
·
Situated on the eastern coast along the blue waters of the Bay of Bengal, Orissa offers to magnificent temples, sunny beaches, colourful wildlife, traditional tribal culture and a rich heritage. While several temples have vanished or have declined in importance, the great temple of Lord Jagannath at Puri is still a living and vibrant temple. Over the centuries it has attracted kings, conquerers, religious teachers, devotees and pilgrims. In the minds of the millions of Indians, Orissa is the land of Jagannath. This temple of Lord Jagannath at Puri is one of the most sacred pilgrimage spots in India, one of the four abodes (dhamas) of the divine that lie on the four directions of the compass.
·
The temple of Jagannath Puri is a rekha dwell with curvilinear tower on a pancha ratha plan and was built by Ananta Barma Chodaganga Dev during 12th century A.D. and was completed by Ananga Bhima Dev. This temple is one of the tallest monuments in the country, height is about 214 feet from the ground level. It stands on an elevated platform of stone measuring about 10 acres, which is located in the heart of the down town and presents an imposing sight.. The temple has four gates at the eastern, southern, western northern midpoints of the Meghanad Prachir and are called Lions gate, Horse Gate, Tiger Gate and the Elephant Gate respectively.
·
Lord Jagannath, the symbol of universal love and is worshiped in the Temple along with Balabhadra, Subhadra, Sudarshan, Madhaba, Sridevi and Bhudevi on the Ratnabedi or the bejewelled platform. The Deities, Lord Jagannath, Balabhadra, Subhadra and Chakra Sudarshan are made of margosa wood.
·
Maha-prasada is pure vegetarian spiritual food offered to Lord Jagannath. Just by eating this maha-prasada one makes great spiritual advancement. Every day, fifty-six varieties of prasada are offered to Lord Jagannath. The main offering of the day becomes available anywhere from 3 to 5 pm (sometimes later). The offering times are not exact and change day by day.
·
·
Hindu Temple - Kapaleeswarar Temple
·
Kapaleeswarar Temple ·
In Chennai, Mylapore, the Kapaleeswarar Temple is extremely ancient temple and is one of the visited temples. The original temple was underwater beneath the sea and the present temple construction was an afterward construction.
·
The Amman is karpagambal and Moolavar is kapaleeswarar. There are split sannadhis for many deities such as Murugar, Vinayagar, Saneeswara, Annamalaiyar. There are many other deities such as Chandikeswarar, Durgai, Dakshinamurthy located within the major Sannadhis of Kapaleeswarar (Shiva) and Karpagambal (Paravati).
·
Kapaleeswarar (Shiva) and Karpagambal (Paravati) temple is visited one. The temple is one of the main attractions in Madras. The present construction is an about 300 years old. The deity has been vocal by poets of the past millennium. This temple is also offered with enlarge mandapams and a storage tank. The temples tank lies reverse the tower.
·
Kapaleeswar temple is devoted to Lord Shiva. Kapaleeswaram is offered with a Shiv Lingam which is considered as having been set up by the Brahma. The lingam is well known Kapaleeswarar. Pravati is a small shrine in the type of peacock and included in the courtyard. This temple is the bronze statue of sixty-three shaivite saints. The Dravidian culture is a well example. However, the divinities have been commonly said of well-known personalities.
·
The Arupath Moovar Vizha festival has a huge crowd in March to April every year. Temple festivals attract enormous crowds here. The temple gives the 10 days occasions. The temple is decorated beautifully with the road complimenting the stated occurrence. In nearby district, there are sweet sharing ceremonies, classical dance performance and processions.
·
The temple has additional devoted to Muruga (called Singara Velar) and Ganesha (a dancing type called Nardana Vinayakar), with his 2 consorts Deivayani and Valli. Devote are smaller shrines other kinds of Muruga (Palani Andavar), shiva (Sundareswarar, Jagatheswarar and Annamalaiar) and others. Navagraha temple is also current. Sani Bhagavan a separate temple on Saturday will be special puja's done.
·
Vahanas
·
At the temple, the vahanas include the parrot, elephant, goat, bandicoot, bull and peacock among additional as a golden chariot is a new addition. On the vahana the Goddess and the God is seated with brought around the shrine and the temple band playing music during this happening. Around the vahanas devotees gather and believe it a respect to lift on the vahana in the Goddess and the God.
·
Nowadays, the temple rectangular site complex is crowded with stalls like temple jewelers, flower sellers and silk merchants, creating it a charming place to as left a few hours.
·
Hindu Temple - Jwalamukhi Temple
·
Jwalamukhi Temple ·
·
One of the 51 Shaktipiths of India, the temple of Jwalamukhi is in Jwalamukhi town which is about 70 kilometers from Dharamsala. Jwalamukhi is a famous temple of Goddess Jwalamukhi, the deity of flaming mouth, believed to be the manifestation of the Goddess Sati. The building is modern with a gilt dome and pinnacles, and possesses a beautiful folding door of silver plates. The Devi appears in the form of nine different flames. The principal one is believed to be Mahakali. The other eight flames at different places in the temple represent the following Goddesses Annapurna, Chandi, Hing Laj, Vidhya Vasini, Maha Lakshmi, Maha Sarswati, Ambika and Anjana.
·
In princely times, temple affairs were guided and supervised by the princely state of Nadaun. In 1809, Maharaja Ranjit Singh visited the temple and after dyeing his hand in saffron, stamped an agreement in the temple premises with Raja Sansar Chand-the local ruler. Later after tasting success in the Afghan war, Maharaja Ranjit Singh gilded the roof of the Jwalamukhi temple as a thanksgiving. His son Kharak Singh, presented to the temple a pair of silver plated folding doors.
·
The deity is- offered Bhog of Rabri or thickened milk, Misri or candy, seasonal fruits, milk and arti is done. The puja has different 'phases' and goes on practically the whole day. Arti is done five times in the day, Havan is performed once daily and portions of "Durga Saptasati" are recited.
·
·
indu Temple - Kailash Temple
·
Kailash Temple ·
·
Kailash Temple is situated at Ellora and is believed that it was constructed by excavating approx. 200,000 tones of rock and is possible the world's largest monolithic structure. Representing Shiva's Himalayan home, the temple is exquisitely sculpted and is considered as one of the most astonishing 'buildings' in the history of architecture. A crowning glory of the art, Kailash temple at Ellora is indeed unique. Instead of carving down into the face of a cliff and creating underground halls which had been the practice, the sculptors/architects set aside all convention and created a full temple, identical in every detail to a structural, 'built-up' example, by carving vertically down into the living rock.
·
The scheme of the Kailash temple is basically divided into four main parts: the body of the temple itself, the entrance gateway, an intermediate nandi shrine and the cloisters surrounding the courtyard. Much of the imposing character of the main shrine is due to its substantial plinth, which on first examination seems to be a floor by itself. Above and below this, the sub-structure is heavily molded, while the central space is occupied by a frieze of elephants and lions.
·
The Kailash temple is not only the single largest work of art executed in India, but as an example of rock-cut architecture it stands unrivaled. One gradually becomes aware of the stupendous labor that it involved (over a hundred years), and finally, the sculpture that adorns it. Standing within its walls, one cannot help but be aware of the spiritual energy that went into its creation - a jewel hewn out of the rock itself.
·
·
Hindu Temple - Kapaleeswarar Temple
·
Kapaleeswarar Temple ·
In Chennai, Mylapore, the Kapaleeswarar Temple is extremely ancient temple and is one of the visited temples. The original temple was underwater beneath the sea and the present temple construction was an afterward construction.
·
The Amman is karpagambal and Moolavar is kapaleeswarar. There are split sannadhis for many deities such as Murugar, Vinayagar, Saneeswara, Annamalaiyar. There are many other deities such as Chandikeswarar, Durgai, Dakshinamurthy located within the major Sannadhis of Kapaleeswarar (Shiva) and Karpagambal (Paravati).
·
Kapaleeswarar (Shiva) and Karpagambal (Paravati) temple is visited one. The temple is one of the main attractions in Madras. The present construction is an about 300 years old. The deity has been vocal by poets of the past millennium. This temple is also offered with enlarge mandapams and a storage tank. The temples tank lies reverse the tower.
·
Kapaleeswar temple is devoted to Lord Shiva. Kapaleeswaram is offered with a Shiv Lingam which is considered as having been set up by the Brahma. The lingam is well known Kapaleeswarar. Pravati is a small shrine in the type of peacock and included in the courtyard. This temple is the bronze statue of sixty-three shaivite saints. The Dravidian culture is a well example. However, the divinities have been commonly said of well-known personalities.
·
The Arupath Moovar Vizha festival has a huge crowd in March to April every year. Temple festivals attract enormous crowds here. The temple gives the 10 days occasions. The temple is decorated beautifully with the road complimenting the stated occurrence. In nearby district, there are sweet sharing ceremonies, classical dance performance and processions.
·
The temple has additional devoted to Muruga (called Singara Velar) and Ganesha (a dancing type called Nardana Vinayakar), with his 2 consorts Deivayani and Valli. Devote are smaller shrines other kinds of Muruga (Palani Andavar), shiva (Sundareswarar, Jagatheswarar and Annamalaiar) and others. Navagraha temple is also current. Sani Bhagavan a separate temple on Saturday will be special puja's done.
·
Vahanas
·
At the temple, the vahanas include the parrot, elephant, goat, bandicoot, bull and peacock among additional as a golden chariot is a new addition. On the vahana the Goddess and the God is seated with brought around the shrine and the temple band playing music during this happening. Around the vahanas devotees gather and believe it a respect to lift on the vahana in the Goddess and the God.
·
Nowadays, the temple rectangular site complex is crowded with stalls like temple jewelers, flower sellers and silk merchants, creating it a charming place to as left a few hours.
·
Hindu Temple - Kashi Vishwanath Temple
·
Kashi Vishwanath Temple ·
·
The oldest living city in the world, Varanasi is the ultimate destination of all Hindu pilgrims searching for moksha from the cycle of birth and re-birth. The word 'Kashi' originated from the word 'Kas' which means to shine. Kashi is mentioned repeatedly in the scriptures - the Brahmanas, Upanishads and the Puranas. It is the oldest center of learning and the University here is still widely respected for its Sanskrit, Philosophy, and Arts faculties. Hyuen Tsang, the Chinese traveler visited Varanasi in the 7th century.
·
Stepped in tradition and mythological legacy, Kashi is the 'original ground' created by Lord Shiva and Parvati. The Kashi Vishwanath Temple is dedicated to Lord Shiva. The temple was destroyed in the various invasions and was rebuilt in 1776 by Rani Ahilyabai of Indore. Hundreds and thousands of pilgrims flock to Varanasi to offer homage and wash away their sins.
·
Vishweshwara jyotirlinga has a very special and unique significance in the spiritual history of India. Deeply and intimately implanted in the Hindu mind, the Kashi Vishwanath Temple has been a living embodiment of our timeless cultural traditions and highest spiritual values. The Temple has been visited by all great saints- Adi Shankaracharya, Ramkrishna Paramhansa, Swami Vivekanand, Goswami Tulsidas, Maharshi Dayanand Saraswati, Gurunanak and several other spiritual personalities.
·
·
Hindu Temple - Khajuraho Temple
·
Khajuraho Temple ·
·
Once a great chandela capital, Khajuraho is now a quiet village. The town of exotic temples, Khajuraho is one of India's major honeymoon attractions. They are India's unique gift to the world, representing a melody to life,which encompasses all emotions ranging from love, to joy. Life, in every form and mood, has been captured in stone, testifying not only to the craftsman's artistry but also to the extraordinary breadth of vision of the Chandela kings.
·
The architecture of the temples are unique, being very different from the temple prototype of their period. The erotic carvings of temples, make it a must-see. Originally there were 85 temples, but many were destroyed by the British. Today, only 22 are in fair condition.
·
·
Khajuraho temple complex site is one the most popular places both foreign and Indian tourists. Temples of Khajuraho hold the attention of a visitor with their sculptural art, which is so exquisite and intricate, that one cannot even dream of cloning it now. The artist's creative instincts have beautifully captured various facets and moods of life in stone. The temples at Khajuraho are divided into three broad groups:
·
The Western Group is the largest, compact and centrally located group in Khajuraho, includes some of the most prominent monuments, built by the Chandela rulers. The Lakshmana Temple, the Matangesvara Temple and the Varaha Temple form one complex and the Visvanatha and Nandi temples are not far from this complex.
·
The Eastern Group comprises of five detached sub-groups in and around the present village of Khajuraho. The eastern group of monuments, situated in close proximity to the Khajuraho village, includes three Brahmanical temples known as Brahma, Vamana and Javari and three Jain temples, the Ghantai, Adinath and Parsvanath.
·
The Southern Group is the most distant one comprising of two main monuments near and across the Khudarnala. The southern group of monuments comprises the Duladeo and the Chaturbhuja temples. The Duladeo is about a kilometre south of the Khajuraho village and half a mile southwest of the Jain group of temples. The Chaturbhuja Temple is Dance Festivalmile further south and is close to the Khajuraho airport.
·
Visitors are also drawn to a dance festival, celebrated in March, which attracts some of the best classical dancers in the country - the floodlit temples provide a spectacular backdrop during the event. In a setting where the earthly and the divine create perfect harmony, it is a spectacular event that celebrates the pure magic of the rich classical dance traditions of India.
·
·
Hindu Temple - Konark Temple
·
Kornark Temple ·
·
Konark Sun Temple is located , in the state of Orissa near the sacred city of Puri. The sun Temple of Konark is dedicated to the sun God or Surya. It is a masterpiece of Orissa's medieval architecture. Sun temple has been declared a world heritage site by UNESCO.
·
The Konark temple is widely known not only for its architectural grandeur but also for the intricacy and profusion of sculptural work. The entire temple has been conceived as a chariot of the sun god with 24 wheels, each about 10 feet in diameter, with a set of spokes and elaborate carvings. Seven horses drag the temple. Two lions guard the entrance, crushing elephants. A flight of steps lead to the main entrance.
·
The Nata Mandir in front of the Jagamohana is also intricately carved. Around the base of the temple, and up the walls and roof, are carvings in the erotic style. There are images of animals, foliage, men, warriors on horses and other interesting patterns. There are three images of the Sun God, positioned to catch the rays of the sun at dawn, noon and sunset.
·
The temple city of Konark is situated in the eastern state of Orissa at a distance of around 65 km from Bhubaneswar and 35 km from Puri. The city extends between longitude 86.08°E and latitude 19.53°N.
·
·
Konark derives its name from Konarka, the presiding deity of the Sun Temple. Konarka is actually a combination of two words, Kona (corner) and Arka (sun), which, when combined, means the sun of the corner. Konark was one of the earliest centres of Sun worshipping in India. The place finds mention in the Puranas as Mundira or Mundirasvamin, a name that was subsequently replaced by Konaditya or Konarka. Apart from the Puranas, other religious texts also point towards the existence of a sun temple at Konark long before the present temple.
·
Konark was once a bustling port of Kalinga and had good maritime trade relations with Southeast Asian countries. The present Sun Temple was probably built King Narashimhadev I (AD 1238-64) of the Ganga dynasty to celebrate his victory over the Muslims. The temple fell into disuse in the early 17th century after it was desecrated by an envoy of the Mughal emperor Jahangir.
·
However, legend has it that the temple was constructed by Samba, the son of Lord Krishna. It is said that Samba was afflicted by leprosy, brought about by his father's curse on him. After 12 years of penance, he was cured by Surya, the Sun God, in whose honour he built this temple.
·
The massive structure of the temple, now in ruins, sits in solitary splendor surrounded by the drifting sands. The entire temple has been designed in the shape of a chariot carrying the Sun God across the heavens. The huge intricate wheels of the chariot, which are carved around the base of the temple, are the major attractions of the temple. The spokes of these wheels serve as sundials, and the shadows formed by these can give the precise time of the day. The pyramidal roof of the temple, made of sandstone, soars over 30 m in height. Like the temples at Khajuraho, the Sun Temple at Konark is also covered with erotic sculptures.
·
The Temple Chariot of the Sun God
Standing imperiously in its compound of lawns and casuarina trees, 35km north of Puri on the coast road, this majestic pile of oxidizing sandstone is considered to be the apogee of Orissan architecture and one of the finest religious buildings anywhere in the world. The temple is all the more remarkable for having languished under a huge mound of sand since it fell into neglect three hundred or so years ago. A team of seven galloping horses and twenty-four exquisitely carved wheels found lining the flanks of a raised platform showed that the temple had been conceived in the form of a colossal chariot for the sun god Surya, its presiding deity.
·
Lady drummer of Sun Temple
The temple is a brilliant chronicle in stone, with thousands of images including deities, the Surasundaris, heavenly damsels, and human musicians, lovers, dancers, and different scenes from courtly life.
·
Maituna - Sun Temple
Equally as sensational was the re-discovery among the ruins of some extraordinary erotic sculpture. Konark is plastered with loving couples locked in ingenious amatory postures drawn from the Kama Sutra - a feature that may well explain the comment made by one of great poet of Mughal Dynasty,Abdul Fazl, in the sixteenth century: "Even those who are difficult to please," he enthused, "stand astonished at its sight."
·
Sacred Pond
A stone's throw away from Konark beach lies the sacred pond where Samba was cured of leprosy - the miracle that allegedly inspired the founding of the sun temple. For a couple of days every year during the full or "white" moon phase of Magha (Jan/Feb), chandrabhaga is also the site of a big religious festival, the Magha Saptami Mela.
·
The Chandrabhaga Mela or Magha Saptami mela in the month of February, is a grand religious festival. Thousands of pilgrims converge on the pool, on this day to take a holy dip in its curative waters, and then shuffle off to the beach where, in accordance with an age-old custom mentioned in the puranas, they watch the sun rise over the sea. The event is followed by the puja of the Navagraha.
·
Those interested in attending the Konark Dance Festival, held in the Open air Auditorium north of the Sun Temple, should visit during the first week of December. Konark Dance Festival A dance festival is held in an open-air theatre built near the Sun Temple every year in the month of December. Known as the Konark dance festival, the event brings together eminent classical dancers of India who perform various dance forms like Odissi, Bharatnatyam, Manipuri, Kathak and Chhow. The classical extravaganza is a journey through ecstasy, and a visit to Konark during this time offers you with a combination of art, craft, fun and frolic.
·
Magha Saptami (Sun Festival) is held at Konark on the seventh day (saptami) of the bright half of the month of Magha (January/February). During this festival, the pilgrims bathe in the sea before sunrise and then proceed to the temple to worship.
·
·
Hindu Temple - Lepakshi Temple
·
Lepakshi Temple ·
·
The Vijayanagar Empire caused a number of monuments to be built and patronized in the State of Andhra Pradesh. The ornate Lepakshi temples being one of the popular temples of that era. Lepakshi is a small village, which lies nine miles east of Hindupur in Anantapur District of Andhra and is famous for its temple of Veerabhadra, and is also a renowned place where the best specimens of the mural paintings of the Vijayanagar kings are available.
·
The flat stuccoed granite ceilings of the Vijayanagar Empire provided a suitable background for frescoes as seen at Lepakshi. This temple is a notable example of the Vijayanagar style of architecture, and is built on a low rocky hill, which is called Kurmasaila so called because the bill is like a tortoise, in shape. An inscription on the exit of the outer wall of the temple records that one Virupanna constructed it in the 16th century.
·
The beautiful sculptures on the prakaram attract the pilgrims' attention. These include 14 forms of Siva, like Dakshinamurthi, Ardhanareeswara, Tripurantaka etc. The hall of creepers is another excellent work of art, which has provided perennial inspiration to textile designers over the years. About 500m, North-East of the temple stands India's largest monolithic Nandhi, measuring about 8.25m long and 4,60m high.
·
·
Hindu Temple - Lingaraja Temple
·
Lingaraja Temple ·
·
Situated in the ancient capital of the Kalinga empire, Bhubaneswar's, the Lingaraja Temple is probably one of India's most remarkable ancient, architectural achievements, with a 54-meter tower dominating the landscape. Encapsuled by high walls on all sides, the Lingaraja temple or the Bhubaneshwar is one of the most well known temples in Orissa. It is one of the best and splendoured examples of the architectural excellence which the artists had achieved during the 11th century.
·
The outer walls of the temple exhibit unparalled carvings. The beautifully carved and sculpted images of various God and Goddess are unrivalled. The temple complex has three compartments and each one has a temple each. Towards south of the entrance to main temple is image of Lord Ganesha, at the back is the image of Goddess Parvati and to north is Lord Kartikya. The Lingaraja temple has got various pillars and halls which add to its beauty.
·
The vast Bindu Sagar lake is the center around which are located the multitude of temples of Bhubaneshwar. The Lingaraja temple is located in a spacious courtyard covering over 250000 sq feet and is bounded by fortified walls. Its tower rises up to 180 feet and is elaborately carved.
·
·
Hindu Temple - Meenakshi Temple
·
Meenakshi Temple ·
·
No text can do justice to the Meenakshi temple. The gigantic temple complex, the statues exploring the entire range of human emotions, everything here is larger than life. The Meenakshi temple complex is a city temple - one of the largest and certainly one of the most ancient. According to legend Madurai is the actual site where the wedding between Shiva and Meenakshi took place. The soaring and exquisitely carved towers enclose the temple dedicated to Meenakashi. The south gateway contains the twin temples of Shiva and Meenakshi and is about nine storeys high.
·
The Sri Meenakshi Sundareswara temple and Madurai city originated together. According to tradition, Indra once committed sin when he killed a demon, who was then performing penance. He could find no relief from remorse in his own kingdom. He came down to earth. While passing through a forest of Kadamba trees in Pandya land, he felt relieved of his burden. His servitors told him that there was a Shivalinga under a Kadamba tree and beside a lake. Certain that it was the Linga that had helped him; he worshipped it and built a small temple around it. It is believed that it is this Linga, which is till under worship in the Madurai temple. The shrine is called the "Indra Vimana".
·
Once Dhananjaya, a merchant of Manavur, where the Pandyas had arrived after the second deluge in Kumari Kandam, having been overtaken by nightfall in Kadamba forest, spent the night in the Indra Vimana. When next morning he woke up, he was surprised to see signs of worship. Thinking that it must be the work of the Devas, he told the Pandya, Kulasekhara, in Manavur, of this. Meanwhile Lord Shiva had instructed Pandya in a dream to build a temple and a city at the spot Dhananjaya would indicate. Kulasekhara did so. Thus originated the temple and city.
·
Paranjothi Munivar wrote the Tiruviayadal Puranam in the sixteenth century. It is regarded as the temple's Sthalapurana. An earlier work adds a few celestial sports not included in the latter. These are, or rather were painted on the walls around the Golden Lily Tank. Some of the painted wooden panels are in the Temple Museum.
·
The earliest references available to any structure in this temple is a hymn of Sambhandar's, in the seventh century, which refers to the "Kapali Madil". The present inner walls of the Lords shrine bear this name today. In the early times the entire temple must have been confined to the area between these walls, and the structures must have been of brick and mortar.
·
In the 14th century an invasion by Malik Kafur damaged the temple. In the same century Madurai was under Muslim rule for nearly fifty years. The temple authorities closed the sanctum, covered up the Linga, and set up another in the Ardhamandapa. When the city was liberated, the sanctum was opened, and, tradition says the flower garlands and the sandalwood paste placed on the Linga were as fresh as on the first day, and two oil lamps were still burning.
·
Ashta Sakthi Mandapa is a convention in this temple, different from that followed in others, that the devotee offers worship first to Goddess Meenakshi. Therefore, while there are four other entrances into the temple, under huge Gopuras in the four cardinal directions, it is customary to enter not through any of them but through a Mandapa, with no tower above it. This entrance leads directly to the shrine of the Goddess.
·
This Mandapa is an impressive structure, with a hemispherical ceiling. It is 14m long and 5.5m wide. There are bas-reliefs all over the place. Over the entrance one of them depicts the marriage of Goddess Meenakshi with Lord Somasundara. The Mandapa derives its name, the "Ashta Sakthi", from the fact it contains sculptures of the eight Sakthis (also spelt as Shakti). Those of the four principal Nyanmars were added during renovation of the temple in 1960-63.
·
A smaller Mandapa connects the large one with another large one with another large hall, called the "Samagam Meenakshi Naicker Mandapa", after its builder, a minister of Vijayaranga Chokkanatha (1706-32), who erected in 1707. In former times the temple's elephants camels and bulls used to be stabled here. A brass "Tiruvatchi" holding a thousand and eight lamps stands here, 7.6m high. Marudu Pandya, one of the early opponents of the growing British power, installed it.
·
The Meenakshi Naicker Mandapa is a huge hall, 42.9m long and 33.5m wide. It contains 110 stone columns, each 6.7m high. There are yalis in the capital and delicate reliefs below. Some of the carvings are unfinished.
·
The Mudali Pillai Mandapa follows the Chitra Gopura. Added in 1613, it is 183m long and 7.6m wide. On its wall are many puranic scenes. It used to be without any natural light, but windows were added in the last renovation.
·
The lovely and historic Golden Lily tank then comes into view. It is from its banks that most popular photographic views of the temple are taken, showing the gigantic south outer Gopura. The northern corridor leads directly to the shrine of the Goddess. On its pillars are the images of some of the Sangam poets, of Kulasekhara Pandya, the first builder of the temple, and of Dhananjaya, who figures in the traditional story of its origin. There is no fish in the tank.
·
The corridors around the tank are rightly called the "Chitra Mandapa", for the walls carry paintings of the divine sports of the Lord, as narrated in the "Tiruvilayadal Puranam". They have been renewed from time to time. A short while ago there were paintings on wooden panels affixed over an older series. They have since been removed to the Temple Museum in the thousand-pillared Mandapa, leaving some dilapidated murals to view. It is impossible to ascertain the date of these.
·
It was in the sixteenth century that the corridors and the steps leading down to the tank were constructed; the northern corridor and steps in 1562, those on the east in 1573, and those on the south five years later.
·
Two Mandapas, the Unjal and the Kilikatti, stand on the farther way to the shrine of the Goddess. On their ceilings are more paintings. A celebrated mural, opposite to the entrance of the shrine, depicts the marriage of Goddess Meenakshi. The Kilikatti Mandapa derives its name from the fact that there are parrots in a cage here. On its walls are carvings of the divine sports. The most ornamental of the temple's Mandapas, it was built in 1623.
·
A Gopura of three tiers stands over the entrance from this Mandapa into the shrine of the Goddess. Built in 1227 by Vambathura Ananda Tandava Nambi, it is named the Vambuthurar Gopura after him. The shrine consists of a square sanctum, an Ardhamandapa and a Mukhamandapa. In the niches on the walls of the shrine are images of Iccasakthi in the south, Kriyasakthi in the west, and Jnanasakthi in the north. There are shrines of Vinayaka and Subramanya in the outer Prakara. They probably belong to the fifteenth century.
·
There are a number of historic shrines in the Prakaras. Opposite to an entrance into the first from the Mahamandapa there is one of Lord Sabhapathi. This is the famous Velliambalam where one of the Lord's divine sports took place when, at the request of the sages, Patanjali and Vyagrapadha, He danced as Lord Nataraja.
·
In the second Prakara a shrine, now called that of the Sangam poets, contains images of many of them. In the same Prakara there is a shrine apparently dedicated to Kariyamanikka Perumal, but now empty. Also in the same Prakara there is a row of fourteen small shrines, called the "isvarams". Many of them contain Lingas.
·
The famous festivals held at Madurai, include Teppam festival, the annual Float Festival, wherein the images of Sri Meenakshi and Lord Sundareswara (also spelt as Sundreshwara) are mounted on floats, and taken to Mariamman Teppakkulam Tank, where for several days they are pulled back and forth across the water in the middle of the tank, on an illuminated raft embellished with flowers, before being taken back to the main temple.
·
The annual solemnization of the marriage of Meenakshi with Lord Sundareshwar (Shiva) is one of the most spectacular temple festivals at Madurai's famous Meenakshi temple in Tamil Nadu. Car processions of the goddess and the god are some of the colourful features of this festival.
·
Meenaskhi Kalyanam, the wedding festival of Goddess Meenakshi and Lord Sundareshwar is celebrated for twelve days from the second day of the lunar month (i.e. two days after the new moon). This is a spectacular festival celebrated in the month of Chaitra (April-May).
·
The festival is characterized with royal decorated umbrellas, fans and traditional instrumental music. Scenes from mythology are enacted and the deities of Lord Shiva, Goddess Shakti and Goddess Meenakshi are taken out in a colourful procession. Thousands of devotees from all over the country gather in the city of Madurai on this occasion.
·
·
Hindu Temple - Mukteswara Temple
·
Mukteswara Temple ·
·
Built in the year of AD 950, Mukteswara temple is dedicated to Lord Shiva, and is carved with figures of ascetics in several poses of meditation. The highlight of the temple, is the magnificent torana - the decorative gateway, an arched masterpiece, reminiscent of Buddhist influence in Orissa.
·
This temple is considered to be the gem of Orissan architecture. The sculptured gateway, the Jagamohana with diamond shaped latticed windows and decorated interiors and the plethora of sculptural work all deserve mention in this temple dedicated to Shiva Although it is only a small monument rising to a height of 35 feet. Literally every inch of its surface is carved. This temple has also been described as a dream realized in sandstone and it is a monument where it is said sculpture and architecture are in complete harmony with one another. This temple dates back to the 10th century.
·
The sculptural decoration of the Mukteswara is exquisitely executed. The beautiful sculptures eloquently speak of the sense of proportion and perspective of the sculptor and their unique ability in the exact depiction of the minutest objects. The builders of Mukteswara Temple introduced new architectural designs, new art motifs and new conceptions about the icnography of the cult images. There are a number of depictions of skeletal ascetics among the sculptural images, most of them shown in teaching or meditation poses, which seems appropriate as the name Mukteswara means "Lord who gives freedom through Yoga".
·
·
Hindu Temple - Naina Devi Temple
·
Naina Devi Temple ·
·
The Goddess Naina Devi is worshipped as a single selfborn pindi. There is another pindi of Ganesha and a third established by the Pandavas. This is believed to be the 'shakti pita' where Sati's eye fell. Naina means eye. The temple is also known as Mahishapitha because of it's association with Mahishasur.
·
This area was the capital of Mahishasur. Mahishasur was given a boon by Brahma, the creator, that he could only be defeated by a maiden. His story is a major section in the Devi Mahatmya and can be found in greater detail in the Devi Bhagavata Purana. He enslaved the Gods and made life impossible for the righteous people of that time. To save themselves the Deva's got together and combined their shakti's (Goddess power within them) to create a new Devi powerful enough to defeat him. She stationed Herself on a nearby hill called Mahishapith. Hearing of Her unearthly beauty Mahishasur wanted to marry the Divine maiden. She agreed to the marriage on the condition that he could defeat Her in battle. She defeated his armies and finally Mahishasur himself. She plucked out both his eyes and gave his skull to Brahma. The Gods showered Her with flowers and cried out "Jay Naina" and hence Her name.
·
Another story claims that a cowherd named Naina, found a cow dripping milk onto a pindi with eyes on it. That night Devi Ma appeared to the cowherd in a dream and told him that the pindi was Her own form. He was told that he should build a temple there and worship the pindi. He did so and later a larger temple was built.
·
Hindu Temple - Omkareshwar Temple
·
Omkareshwar Temple ·
·
Situated on the banks of the Narmada, Omkareshwar is one of the 12 revered Jyotirlinga shrines of Shiva. It is located at a distance of about 12 miles from Mortakka in Madhya Pradesh. The river Narmada spits into two and forms an island Mandhata or Shivapuri in the center. The shape of the island resembles that of the visual representation of the Omkara sound, Om. There are two temples here, one to Omkareshwar and one to Amareshwar. Legend has it that the Vindhya mountain prayed to Shiva - Omkareshwara and was blessed here. Legend also has it that upon the request of the Devas, the Shivalinga split into two, one half being Omkareshwara and the other Amaleshwara or Amareshwar. King Mandhatha of the Ishvaku clan is believed to have worshiped Shiva here. The Omkareshawar temple is built in the North Indian style of architecture, with high spires. Devotees consider worship to Panchamuga Ganesha, to be very auspicious.
·
Shri Omkar Mandhata
The main temple with detailed carving in soap stone stands on a mile long and half mile island.
·
Siddhnath Temple
A frieze of elephants carved on a stone slab is the main draw of this example of early medieval Branmhatic architecture.
·
24 Avataras
A cluster of Hindu and Jain temples in varied architecture modes.
·
Satmatrika Temple
A group of 10th century temples.
·
·
Hindu Temple - Sabarimala Temple
·
Sabarimala Temple ·
·
Perhaps the best known pilgrimage destination in Kerala, Sabarimala is situated high up in the Sahyadri Mountains. Sabarimala Sri Dharmasastha Temple is the most famous and prominent among all the Sastha Temples. It is believed that "Parasurama Maharshi" who uplifted Kerala from the sea by throwing his axe, installed the idol of Ayyappa at Sabarimala to worship Lord Ayyappa. The temple attracts pilgrims not only from the southern states of India, but also from other parts of the country and abroad.
·
Various legends explain the birth of Ayyappa, among them that he was born to battle the demons of Kerala's hill tribes. Brought up by a childless tribal king, Ayyappa performs many miracles. After fulfilling the purpose of his incarnation, Ayyappa entered the inner sanctum of the ancient temple upon sacred Mt Sabari and disappeared. During his life, Ayyappa reportedly kept the company of tigers and leopards.
·
The Sabarimala temple attracts the maximum pilgrims on the first day of the 'Makharam' month on January 17, when a celestial light appears on top of a nearby hill. Thousands arrive just to see the light, which is considered sacred. All the devotees, after taking a holy dip in the river, trek to the hilltop temple. Before beginning the pilgrimage to Sabarimala, pilgrims prepare themselves with 41 days of rigorous fasting, celibacy, meditation and prayer. The standard items that are carried to the temple include a coconut filled with ghee and two other coconuts that are broken in front of the temple.
·
·
Hindu Temple - Sai Baba Temple
·
Sai Baba Temple ·
·
Shree Shirdi Saibaba Temple is located at Shirdi, Maharashtra, India appeal to millions of devotees of every caste, creed and religion. The Saibaba temple is a lovely shrine. Shrine was built above the Samadhi of the Shri Saibaba.
·
The Shirdi is a small village into Kopargam taluk into Ahmad nagar district of Maharashtra State. The Saibaba was physically there on the age of 20 into Shirdi. Shirdi was a small village of the 80 thatched houses among mud walls. Nowadays, Shirdi is a large town by modern shops and buildings.
·
Thursday is day of Saibaba is specifically worshipped. At Thursday devotees as of every above India visit of the Shirdi Saibaba Darshan. The Shirdi Saibaba temple opens for the devotees on 5.15 a.m. for Kakad Aarti and stays open till end of the Shejarti.
·
The headman of a Chandbhai was called Dhoopkhede. He had given permission to Saibaba for staying in village. Sai baba was called fakir by some people. For his entire life Saibaba preached at Shirdi and performed number of miracles to persuade people that god exists. Baba said that god is one but called by various names. Saibaba said follow up your individual religion and seek of the truth.
·
Temple places
·
Dwarkamai
·
With a marriage procession, Baba came to shirdhi. Saibaba stayed at dwarkamai till the end of his life. The dwarkamai is located at the right of entrance of the Samadhi mandir. Baba solved the problems of people, cured their worries and sickness at this place. Baba came into dwarkamai and showed that god is one. The 1st level of Dwarkamai has a picture of the Sai Baba and a large stone on baba used to sit. The first level has two rooms. The first room has chariot and second room contain palkhi. Chariot is small temple. The 2nd level of the Dwarkamai has made of square stool stone. Baba used this stone for taking the bath. The major attraction of the dwarkamai place is an oil painting of the Saibaba sitting in a sliced wooden shrine.
·
Samadhi Mandir
·
·
The Samadhi Mandir of the Shri Saibaba was really owned with a millionaire as of Nagpur, well-known Saibaba devotees Shreemant Gopalrao. The Shreemant Gopalrao wanted to protect a god of the Murlidhar here. However, Baba him self become Murlidhar and the Mandir become the Samadhi Mandir of the Saibaba. The Saibaba mandir is developed by stones and Baba's Samadhi mandir is developed by white marbles stones.
·
A railing is developed into marble around the Samadhi mandir and is complete of ornamental decorations. The Samadhi mandir fronts are 2 silver pillars complete of decorative designs. This god was made with the late of Shri Balaji Vasant.
·
The every day routine of the mandir starts on 5 o'clock in the morning by Bhoopali for a morning song and closes on 10 o'clock into the night behind the Shejarati is a sung. Simply at 3 occasions the mandir is reserved open during the night that is at Dassera, Ramnavmi and Gurupoornima. All Thursday and at every festival a Palakhi by Saibaba's photo is taken out as of the mandir.
·
Khandoba Temple
·
The Shriddi Saibaba temple is located on the main road. In frontage of this temple Saibaba was welcomed with Poojari Mhalsapati of the Khandoba temple. In Shirdi Saibaba temple there are icons of Mhalsai, Banai and Khandoba.
·
Top Gurusthan
·
The Saibaba 1st came to Shirdi into the type of the Bal Yogi means a child ascetic. Saibaba was 1st seated spot below a Neem tree. The Neem tree place came to be known as the Gurusthan. The Gurusthan was modernized at 30th September; 1941. There is a little shrine into Gurusthan. A large portrait of The Sai Baba is placed on raised platform of the shrine. At the side there is a marble statue of the Baba. The front portraits are a Nandi and Shivling. In this temple, 12 photos of jyotirlings are peresent. The Neem tree branches have come out through the roof of the Mandhir. At a small distance there is a Baba's Chavadi. The Saibaba used to sleep chavadi all alternate day. The Chavadi is separated into two parts. The Chavadi has a wide portrait of the Saibaba along with a white chair and a wooden bed belonging to him.
·
·
Hindu Temple - Shankracharya Temple
·
Shankracharya Temple ·
·
Kashmir has produced a galaxy of great saints, seers and savants who have enriched, elevated and refined life and helped the people at large in distress. This is perfectly showcased in the Shankracharya Temple. The temple shows the early Kashmiri style. It tries to introduce the early Sihara style and has still one-storeyed gable pediment which is evident even now. Here we find the early specimen of the horse shoe arch, prominent in the final stages of this architecture, as, for example, in Martand.
·
It was first built by Jalauka, the son of great Emperor Ashoka, about 200 B.C. The temple was later rebuilt and dedicated to Jyesthesvara by Gopaditya, who ruled from 253 A.D. to 328. The hill was called Gopadri and the village at its foot on the south is still called Gopkar. It is also said that once Shankaracharya, a famous Hindu saint, came to Kashmir from South India to revive Hinduism. He stayed on the top of the hill for sometime and the hill thus came to be known as Shankaracharya hill.
·
This temple stands on a solid rock and consists of an octagonal basement of 13 layers. Each of the four sides has two projections which terminate in pediment and agable, the latter intersecting the main roof half way up its slope. The body of the temple is surrounded by a terrace enclosed by a stone wall or parapet, 3.5 feet high. This in following the outline of the basement, preserves its octagonal shape. From the terrace another flight often steps leads to the door of the temple. The interior is a chamber, circular in plan, with a basin containing a lingam. The whole of the building is of stone, which is laid throughout in horizontal courses, no cement appearing to have been used.
·
·
Hindu Temple - The Sun Temple
·
The Sun Temple ·
·
Built in 1026 A.D. during the reign of King Bhimdev I of the Solanki dynasty, the Sun temple is dedicated to the Sun God. This temple, though ravaged by Mehmud of Gazni, still retains enough of it's original structure to convey the grandeur of its conception and the superb artistry of execution. Every inch of the edifice, both outside and inside is carved magnificently with motifs of gods and goddesses, birds, beasts and flowers. Modhera is now the site of several dance and cultural festivals. The sun temple and the ambiance here provide a majestic backdrop for the exhibition of performing arts.
·
Even in its ruined state, the sun temple at Modhera is magnificent. The first view of the sun temple is breathtaking, with the pillared portico of the sabhamandap reflected in the massive tank. The weathered golden brown stone of the edifice has an overpowering grandeur. There is no worship offered here now. There is no shikhara either. The temple has a sanctum, a pradakshina patha and a sabha mandap in front. The exterior of the sanctum has many carved images of the Sun God, portrayed as wearing a belt and long shoes. The mandapa in front of the sanctum has beautifully carved pillars with exquisite toranas adorning the entrances. The exterior of this temple is intricately carved. This temple has been designed such that the sun's rays illuminate the sanctum at dawn.
·
Hindu Temple - Thousand Pillar Temple
·
Thousand Pillar Temple ·
·
About 150 kms. from Hyderabad lies the ancient city of Warangal. Noted today for its beautiful lakes, magnificent temples and wildlife, Warangal possess the marvelous thousand pillared temple, built by King Rudra Deva in the 12th century. The famous Thousand Pillar Temple, built in 1163 AD, by king Rudra Deva is an important monument situated near the Hanamkonda-Warangal highway. One thousand richly carved pillars and a magnificent black basalt Nandi bull are unique to this temple which is dedicated to Lords Shiva, Vishnu and Surya.
·
The temple is in shape of a star and has three shrines dedicated to Lord Shiva, Vishnu and Surya. The temple is built on a 1m high platform on the slopes of the Hanumakonda hill, and has a majestic monolithic Nandi. The black basalt Nandi, a monolith, has a lovely polished finish. There are many small lingam shrines surrounding the gardens. The temple is famous for its richly carved pillars, screens and detailed sculpture.
·
·
Hindu Temple - Tirupati Balaji Temple
·
Tirupati Balaji Temple ·
·
The ancient and sacred temple of Sri Venkateswara is located on the seventh peak, Venkatachala (Venkata Hill) of the Tirupati Hill, and lies on the southern banks of Sri Swami Pushkarini.It is by the Lord's presidency over Venkatachala, that He has received the appellation, Venkateswara (Lord of the Venkata Hill). He is also called the Lord of the Seven Hills.
·
The temple of Sri Venkateswara has acquired unique sanctity in Indian religious lore. The Sastras, Puranas, Sthala Mahatyams and Alwar hymns unequivocally declare that, in the Kali Yuga, one can attain mukti, only by worshipping Venkata Nayaka or Sri Venkateswara.
·
The benefits acquired by a pilgrimage to Venkatachala are mentioned in the Rig Veda and Asthadasa Puranas. In these epics, Sri Venkateswara is described as the great bestowed of boons. There are several legends associated with the manifestation of the Lord at Tirumala.
·
There is ample literary and epigraphic testimony to the antiquity of the temple of Lord Sri Venkateswara. All the great dynasties of rulers of the southern peninsula have paid homage to Lord Sri Venkateswara in this ancient shrine. The Pallavas of Kancheepuram (9th century AD), the Cholas of Thanjavur (a century later), the Pandyas of Madurai, and the kings and chieftains of Vijayanagar (14th - 15th century AD) were devotees of the Lord and they competed with one another in endowing the temple with rich offerings and contributions.
·
It was during the rule of the Vijayanagar dynasty that the contributions to the temple increased. Sri Krishnadevaraya had statues of himself and his consorts installed at the portals of the temple, and these statues can be seen to this day. There is also a statue of Venkatapati Raya in the main temple.
·
Sri Venkatachala Mahatmya is referred to in several Puranas, of which the most important are the Varaha Purana and the Bhavishyottara Purana. The printed work contains extracts from the Varaha Purana, Padma Purana, Garuda Purana, Brahmanda Purana, Markandeya Purana, Harivamsa, Vamana Purana, Brahma Purana, Brahmottara Purana, Aditya Purana, Skanda Purana and Bhavishyottara Purana. Most of these extracts describe the sanctity and antiquity of the hills around Tirumala and the numerous teerthams situated on them.
·
The legends taken from the Venkatachala Mahatmya and the Varaha Purana, pertaining to the manifestation of the Lord at Tirumala, are of particular interest.
·
According to the Varaha Purana, Adi Varaha manifested Himself on the western bank of the Swami Pushkarini, while Vishnu in the form of Venkateswara came to reside on the southern bank of the Swami Pushkarini.
·
Padi Kavali Maha Dwara
The Padi Kavali Maha Dwara or Outer Gopuram stands on a quadrangular base. Its architecture is that of the later Chola period. The inscriptions on the gopuram belong to 13th century. There are a number of stucco figures of Vaishnava gods like Hanuman, Kevale Narasimha and Lakshmi Narasimha on the gopuram.
·
Sampangi Pradakshinam
The path for circumnavigating the temple is called a pradakshinam. The main temple has three prakarams. Between the outermost and middle prakarams is the second pathway for circumambulation known as the Sampangi Pradakshinam. Currently, this pathway is closed to pilgrims. The Sampangi Pradakshinam contains several interesting mandapams like the Pratima Mandapam, Ranga Mandapam, Tirumala Raya Mandapam, Saluva Narasimha Mandapam, Aina Mahal and Dhvajasthambha Mandapam.
·
Ranga Mandapam
Ranga Mandapam, also called the Ranganayakula Mandapam, is located in the south-eastern corner of the Sampangi Pradakshinam. The shrine within it is believed to be the place where the utsava murti of Lord Ranganadha of Srirangam was kept during the 14th century, when Srirangam was occupied by Muslim rulers. It is said to have been constructed between 1320 and 1360 AD by the Yadava ruler Sri Ranganadha Yadava Raya. It is constructed according to the Vijayanagara style of architecture.
·
Tirumala Raya Mandapam
Adjoining the Ranga Mandapam on the western side, and facing the Dhvajasthambha Mandapam is a spacious complex of pavilions known as the Tirumala Raya Mandapam or Anna Unjal Mandapam.
·
It consists of two different levels, the front at a lower level and the rear at a higher. The southern or inner portion of this Mandapam was constructed by Saluva Narasimha in 1473 AD to celebrate a festival for Sri Venkateswara called Anna Unjal Tirunal. This structure was extended to its present size by Araviti Bukkaraya Ramaraja, Sriranga Raja and Tirumala Raja.
·
It is in this Mandapam, that the utsava murthi Malayappan, holds His annual darbar or Asthanam during the hoisting of the Garudadhwaja on Dhwajastambham to mark the commencement of Brahmotsavam. Incidentally, the prasadam distributed on this occasion is still called Tirumalarayan Pongal.
·
Tirumala Raya Mandapam
The Mandapam has a typical complex of pillars in the Vijayanagara style, with a central pillar surrounded by smaller pillars, some of which emit musical notes when struck with a stone. The main pillars have rearing horses with warriors mounted on them. Some of the best sculptures of the temple are found in bold relief in the Mandapam. The bronze statues of Todermallu, his mother Matha Mohana Devi and wife Pitha Bibi, are kept in a corner of the Mandapam.
·
The Aina Mahal
The Aina Mahal is on the northern side of the Tirumala Raya Mandapam. It consists of two parts - an open mandapam in the front consisting of six rows comprising six pillars each, and a shrine behind it consisting of an Antarala and Garbhagriha. It has large mirrors which reflect images in an infinite series. There is an unjal in the middle of the room in which the Lord is seated and festivals conducted.
·
The daily program starts with 'Suprabhatam' (awakening the Lord) at three in the morning and end with the 'Ekanta Seva' (putting the Lord to sleep) at one in the night. Daily, Weekly and Periodical 'Sevas' and 'Utsavams' are performed to the Lord. Interested pilgrims can choose from the list and pay to get the Sevas or Utsavams done on their name. Devotees offer their gifts and donations in the "Hundi", which is the main source of income.
·
Everyday is a day of festivity at Tirumala. The most famous is the annual festival called 'Brahmotsavam', which is celebrated on grand scale for nine days in September, attracting pilgrims and tourists from all parts of the country. The fifth and ninth days of the festival are especially significant in as much as Garudostavam and Rathotavam takes place on those days.
·
·
Hindu Temple - Vaishno Devi Temple
·
Vaishno Devi Temple ·
·
The shrine of Mata Vaishno Devi is one of the most visited pilgrim sites in India. Situated at a height of 5, 300 ft., the site is located inside a cave in a hill. One of the most visited pilgrim sites in India, the shrine of Mata Vaishno Devi is located in a cave, amidst the folds of the Trikuta Bhagwati hill at a height of 5, 300 ft., in the state of Jammu and Kashmir (J & K). This cave temple is at a distance of 61 kms from Jammu and the last 13 kms of the way have to be negotiated on foot by the yatris, as the devotees are called. Once at the entrance to the cave, the path turns into a narrow tunnel with a cold stream named the Charan Ganga running through it. The pilgrim has to wade through this to reach the sanctum sanctorum.
·
The holy cave shrine of Vaishno Devi is nestled in a beautiful recess of the Trikuta Mountains forming a part of the lower Himalayas. It is located 61 km north of Jammu at a height of 5,200 feet above the sea level in the state of Jammu and Kashmir. In the cave there are images of three deities viz. the Mahakali, Mahalakshmi and Mahasaraswati.
·
·
The Vaishno Devi shrine is nestled in the Trikuta Mountain. It lies 61 km north of Jammu in the northern state of Jammu and Kashmir. Perched at a height of 5,200 feet above the sea level, Vaishno Devi is a cave in the lower Himalayas. Katra, the town at the foot of the Trikuta hills is the base camp for the Vaishno Devi shrine. Katra is 48 km from Jammu, 650 km from Delhi (via Una), 520 km from Udhampur, 410 km from Chandigarh and 80 km from Patnitop The shrine is visited all through the year, but the path is difficult during the winters when the route is often blocked by snowfall.
·
The temple of Vaishno Devi is dedicated to Vaishnavi, the human manifestation of Goddess Shakti. Within the temple is the deity in the form of a five and half feet tall rock with three Pindies or heads. It is written that the goddess to achieve her destiny of finally merging with Lord Vishnu assumed the form of a human and was born as Vaishnavi, in the household of one Ratnakar. Even as a young girl, Vaishnavi displayed an immense thirst for knowledge that soon out thought her teachers. Soon she started to search within herself for the answers that she couldn't find elsewhere and learnt the art of meditation. Realizing the importance of Tapasya (meditation) Vaishnavi renounced all worldly comforts and betook herself to the forest to meditate in peace.
·
·
Legend has it that while Vaishnavi was in the forest she encountered Lord Rama, prince of Ayodhya, who was in exile. Recognizing him immediately as an avatar of Lord Vishnu she begged him to merge with her, but Lord Rama, knowing that the time was not ripe promised her that on the completion of his exile he would again pass that way. If she recognized him then he would fulfill her wishes. True to his word he returned in the guise of an old man, but Vaishnavi failed to recognize him. Rama consoled her and advised her to set up an ashram at the base of the Trikuta Hills and continue with her penance.
·
The holy Shrine of Mata Vaishno Devi Ji is unique as it contains the holiest of holy Pindis manifesting Mata in her three forms which are Maha Kali, Maha Lakshmi and Maha Saraswati. Each of these forms represent particular attributes.
·
Maha Kali represents Tam Guna : Tam stands for darkness or unholiness. In her attribute of Maha Kali, Mata is constantly endeavoring to vanquish the forces of darkness. She blesses her devotees by giving them strength to never lose heart and constantly battle the forces of darkness till they prevail upon them. Maha Lakshmi represents Raj Guna : Raj stands for sustenance, prosperity and well being. In her attribute of Maha Lakshmi Vaishno Mata blesses her devotees with wealth and prosperity and thus makes their life more comfortable and happy.
·
Maha Saraswati represents Satva Guna : Satva stands for purity and goodness. In her attribute of Maha Saraswati, Mata blesses her devotees with pure thoughts and a high intellect. This enables them to distinguish between the good and the bad, between righteousness and unrighteousness and helps them to adopt the correct path in life.
·
A combination of these three attributes in a single Shakti is known as Mata Vaishno Devi Ji and this unique combination is what makes her revered all over the world. Each person on earth contains the attributes of Tam Guna, Raj Guna and Satva Guna in some degree or the other. His or her behavior is therefore, conditioned by the attribute that is predominant. However, to lead a full and meaningful life a balance has to be struck amongst the three. This balance is extremely difficult to achieve. It needs divine blessings. It is only at Vaishno Devi Ji that such blessings are possible simultaneously from a single source of Shakti . This is what makes the holy Shrine of Mata Vaishno Devi Ji unique in the world.
·
The Yatra ·
·
The Yatra begins at Katra and pilgrims have to cover 13 km of terrain on foot to reach the Darbar. One kilometer away from Katra, is Banganga, place where Mata quenched her thirst and at 6 km further down, is the holy cave at Adhkawari.The entire 13 km route is quite wide and tiled. Besides, the whole path is lit up every night by powerful sodium vapour lamps. The whole route is swept and cleaned from time to time throughout the day. Yatris are requested to keep the path clean.
·
Shelter cum sheds and shelter cum cafeterias are setup throughout the route. Pure vegetarian food is available at these outlets. Price charts are exhibited at all these outlets prominently. Drinking water has been made available all along the route, with water coolers and storage facilities.
·
Public utilities with automatic flushing systems along the track and at the Bhawan. After 6 km. of trekking, you would reach Adhkawari, the holy cave where Mata meditated for nine months. Do visit the cave. After 9.5 km., you would reach Sanji Chhat where you can rest for sometime. Accommodation is also available at this place. Bhawan is just 3.5 km. away.
·
The Darshan
At the entrance to the cave is a place called Bhavan where the worshipper buys prasad (offering to the God, a little of which is returned to the devotee for distribution amongst his near and dear ones) and other offerings. Here the Yatri is issued a token number on showing the Yatra ticket. The group no. and the time for the Yatri's turn is mentioned on the token.
·
At Bhavan there are cloakrooms, lockers for your belongings and change rooms. It is customary to bathe and change clothes before joining the queue for the darshan. Amidst the continuous chanting of Jai Mata Di, pilgrims wait patiently for their turn after depositing their coconut at the entrance for which they are given tokens. Each one has to enter the cave alone as the tunnel to the shrine is very narrow and has to be negotiated with care. Once inside it widens out to provide darshan of the goddess. The return is via a different route that takes the devotee to the shrine of Bhairon and then back to Katra.
·
Cave ·
·
The total length of the holy Cave is about ninety eight feet. Here you can see symbols of a large number of Gods and Goddesses of the Hindu pantheon. At the mouth of the original tunnel to the holy Cave on the left hand side of the rock face you can see the symbol of Vakra Tunda Ganesha. Adjacent to the symbol of Lord Ganesha you can see the symbols of Surya Dev and Chandra Dev. When you crawl into the holy Cave through the natural tunnel you cross over the Dhadh of Bhairo Nath who was beheaded by the Goddess at the entry point to the holy Cave. The Dhadh is fourteen feet long. After this you come across the symbol of Lord Hanuman who was also called Launkra Beer.
·
Beyond the Launkra Beer point you have to wade your way through water Twenty three feet beyond Launkra Beer, on the left upper hand side, the roof of the cave flares out and the weight of this over hang appears to the resting on the innumerable heads of Shesh Nag. Immediately below Shesh Nag there is the Havan Kund of Mata. Adjacent to the symbols of Shankh, Chakra, Gada and Padam. Higher up, almost touching the ceiling of the cave are the symbols of the five Pandavas, the Sapt Rishi, the Than of the divine cow, Kamdhenu, Brahma, Vishnu, Shiv and Parvati.
·
Three feet further ahead, on an elevation some what lower than Shiv and Parvati, is the Khamba that was gripped by the legendary worshipper Prahalad. Diagonally below this, at the water level you can see the Yantra with innumerable mystical signs and symbols inscribed on it. Twenty two feet beyond this point, the Sher Ka Panja symbolising the lion, which is the mount of Mata Vaishno Devi Ji is located.
·
The distance from the entry point to the Sher Ka Panja is fifty nine feet.. Six feet further ahead, on the left hand side, are the symbols of Shankar and Gouri. Thirteen feet beyond the symbols of Shankar and Gouri the holiest of the holy Pindies of ``Mata Maha Kali Ji'', ``Mata Maha Lakshmi Vaishno Devi Ji,'' and ``Mata Maha Saraswati Ji''.appear .To the right of the holy Pindies on the upper side we can once again identify the symbols of Ganesh, Surya Dev, Chandra Dev and Goddess Annapurna. Slightly behind the holy Pindies, on the right hand side you can see the symbol of the seated Sinh Raj. A little ahead of this you can make out the full hand of the Goddess raised in the Vard Hast mode, granting boons to the world. Immediately opposite the Holy Pindies is the natural symbol of Lord Pashupati Nath.
·
Water(Charan Ganga) gushes out of the base of the holy Pindies and flows out of the holy Cave. Charan Ganga is collected in small containers by the devotees and is taken home. It is also channelised to the bathing ghat and the devotees can take a bath in this water before they join the queue for Darshan of the holy Pindies.
·
The Pindis
The cave at the Trikuta mountain is indeed a unique cave as it is in this cave that Shakti in her incarnation of Vaishavi resides in a petrified rock form and it is only here that she is manifested in her 3 forms Maha Kali , Maha Lakhsmi and Maha Saraswati The holiest of the holy Pindies of "Mata Maha Kali Ji", "Mata Maha Lakshmi Vaishno Devi Ji" and "Mata Maha Saraswati Ji which are the ultimate destination for pilgrims are located at a distance of 91 feet inside the cave .In the surroundings symbols of 'Surya', 'Chander', 'Sinh Raj', 'Pashupatinath', 'Shiva' and 'Dhrupad Ji' are quite prominent.
·
A stream of water gushes out of the base of the holy Pindies which is commonly known as 'Charanganga'. After flowing through the cave this Charanganga is chennalised to 'Bathing Ghat' at Bhavan where the devotees take their bath before proceeding for Darshans of the deity. As a mark of reverence the devotees also carry this 'Charanjal' in small containers to their homes.
·
The Aartis
The Aarti of the Goddess is performed twice a day, once during the morning at sun rise and again during the evening at sun set. The holy cave is closed for pilgrims during the period the Aarti is being performed. It usually takes around two hours for the Aarti to be completed. Only the Pujaris, Sahayaks and an officer are permitted in the cave when the Aarti is being performed. The sequence of the various activities that are performed at Aarti is as under :
·
Chanting of Mantras
At the commencement of the Aarti the Pujaris utter aloud the 108 names of Durga. Then they perform Atam Puja for their own purification and apply Tilak on each other's forehead. This is followed by the chanting of mantras exhorting the Devas to give the Pujaris sound health. Thereafter, Prithvi, Surya, Deep and Dhoop are worshipped by the chanting of mantras. Once these activities are over, the Pujaris chant the Pratigyaa Sankalp where they vow to worship Mata Maha Kali, Maha Lakshmi Vaishno Mata and Mata Maha Saraswati
·
Ban Ganga Temple
After the goddess left the Bhumika Temple, she went to the Trikuta Hills passing through here. At this time, Langoor Vir (Veer Langur) felt thirsty. The goddess shot an arrow into the stone and a holy river was produced, now known as Ban Ganga. It is called Ban Ganga because the goddess washed her hair at this place. Most pilgrims take bath here. You must show the slip you got near the Bus Stand in Katra to pass this point. Ban Ganga is about 3 km from Katra.
·
Charan Paduka Temple
This is where the goddess stopped for some time while Bhairon was chasing her. Her footprints are supposed to be visible on a stone at this place. Charanpaduka means "holy footprints". It is about 1.5 km from Ban Ganga at 3,380 feet.
·
Ardh Kuwari
Ardh Kuwari is the halfway point, and some pilgrims stay here for the night. There is a 15-foot-long cave called Garbha Joon where the goddess hid herself for nine months and showed herself to a saint. The cave is narrow, and you have to almost crawl all the way through it. When Bhairon entered the cave, the goddess made a new opening with her trident and ran away. Ardh Kuwari is 4.5 km from Charan Paduka and 4,800 ft above sea level.
·
Hindu Temple - Vrindavan Temple
·
Vrindavan Temple ·
·
Vrindavan, around 15 km from Mathura, is a major place of pilgrimage, on the banks of Yamuna . Attracting about 5 lakhs pilgrims every year, it is noted for its numerous temples- both old and modern. Vrindavan is synonymous with the innocent mirth and child like playfulness of Shri Krishna. Vrindavan, the dusty little town known for the temples, big and small, famous and remote strewn all over the place.
·
Vrindavana is 135 km south of Delhi and 55 km north of Agra, just off the Delhi-Agra Road. It is 12 km or a 25-minute auto-rickshaw ride from Mathura. It has a small-town type atmosphere with narrow streets and not much motor traffic. There are said to be over 5000 temples in Vrindavana.
·
Vrindavan is situated in the north Indian state of Uttar Pradesh around 151 km south of Delhi. It extends latitude 27°33¢ in the North to longitude 77°44¢ in the East. The place is just 10 km off Mathura, the place where Lord Krishna is said to have spent his childhood. Vrindavan is situated on the New Delhi-Chennai and New Delhi-Mumbai main railway line. A meter-gauge line connects Vrindavan to Mathura. There are quite a good number of passenger trains plying between these two places
·
The name 'Vrindavan' is derived from 'Vrinda', another name for the sacred tulsi (basil) plant. A legend has it that the entire place was a tulsi grove at one time. According to another tradition, it was named after Vrinda Devi, one of Krishna's playmates. The earliest known shrine in Vrindavan is said to have been built by the local gosains in a large garden called Nidhiban, later named Seva Kunj. According to tradition, Emperor Akbar was taken blindfolded inside the grove where he had some kind of a spiritual experience. As a result, he acknowledged the spot as being holy ground.
·
The four temples that were built in honour of his visit are Govind Deva, Madan Mohan, Gopinath, and Jugal Kishore. The first is an impressive edifice built in red sandstone. Architecturally this temple is one of the finest in North India.
·
However, apart from its history, what keeps Vrindavan alive in the popular imagination of the people is its rich legend and mythology. Vrindavan is considered the place where Lord Krishna spent his early childhood. It was here that Krishna indulged in adolescent pranks with the gopis (milkmaids) in the forests and stealing their clothes while they bathed in the river.
·
Banke Bihari Temple
This temple was established by Haridas Swami, a contemporary of the six Goswami's. He discovered the Banke Bihari Deity at Nidhivana, where Banke Bihari was originally worshiped. Banke Bihari was moved here when this temple was constructed in 1864. This is the most popular temple in Vrindavana, especially in the month of Sravana, during Jhulan Yatra. The curtain before the Deities is not left open like at other temples. Every few minutes the curtain is pulled shut and then opened again. The Dieties do not get up until 9 am. The temple has mangala-arati only one day a year. Only one day a year can the lotus feet of the Deity be seen, on Akhyaya Tritiya.
·
ISKCON Temple
HARE RAMA HARE KRISHNA, this name is probably amongst the first things that spring to a westerner's mind when one thinks of India or the spirituality connected to it. A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami Prabhupada (also known as Srila Prabhupada) established the movement officially known as the International Society for Krishna Consciousness (ISKCON) in 1966. The society has since developed into a worldwide confederation of 6,000 temple devotees and 190,000 congregational devotees. It comprises of more than 350 centers, 60 rural communities, 50 schools and 60 restaurants spread all across the globe. The aim of the society is to "promote the well being of society by teaching the science of Krishna consciousness according to the Bhagavad-Gita and other ancient Vedic scriptures of India."
·
Braja Mandala Parikrama
Every year in Kartika (Oct/Nov) ISKCON puts on a Braja Mandala parikrama. It is a one-month walking tour that goes to all 12 forests in Vrindavana. The parikarma visits most of major place in the Braja area including Mathura, Radha Kund, Varsana, Nandagrama, Gokula, Vrindavana, and Govardhana Hill. It is traditional to do this walk in bare feet, although shoes are permitted.
·
Krishna Balarama Mandir
This beautiful temple has Deities of Gaura-Nitai (left altar), Krishna Balarama (middle altar), and Radha-Shyama-sundara (Radha-Krishna on right altar). In front of the temple is the Samadhi Mandir of His Divine Grace A.C.Bhaktivedanta Swami Prabhupada, the Founder Acarya of the International Society for Krishna Consciousness (ISKCON). This is where his body was laid to rest after he left this world and returned to the spiritual world.
·
Yamuna River
This is the most sacred river in Indian. The main reason it is so sacred is because it flows through Vrindavana and Mathura, and was thus intimately connected to Lord Krishna's pastimes. One who bathes in the Yamuna can be purified of all sinful reactions and attain love of Godhead.
·
Kesari Ghat
Lord Krishna killed the Kesi demon here. Kesi Ghat is on the bank of the Yamuna. If you bath here you get the benediction of bathing in all off the holy places. There is an arati performed here every day at sunset.
·
Govindaji Temple
This temple was built in 1590 and took several thousand men five full years to build. The original Govindaji Deity was found about 450 years ago by Rupa Goswami. Govindaji was removed from this temple when the Muslim emperor Aurangzeb tried to destroy it. The original Deity is now in Jaipur, in a temple right outside the King of Jaipur's palace.
·
This temple was originally seven stories high, with an altar of marble, silver and gold. A sculptured lotus flower weighing several tons decorates the main hall. On meeting Rupa Goswami, Man Singh from Jaipur, a general in Emperor Akbar's army, built this magnificent temple. Aurangzeb and his army later destroyed part of the temple. When few stories remained, all of a sudden the ground began to shake violently and Aurangzeb's men were terrified and ran for their lives, never to return.
·
The Deities on the altar in this temple are Govindaji in the middle, to His left is Lord Caitanya, and to His right is Lord Nityananda. Below are small Radha and Krishna Deities. Below Them are Lord Jagannath and a Govardhana-shila.
·
Madana Mohana Temple
The original Deity of Madana Mohana was discovered at the base of an old vat tree by Adaita Acarya, when visited Vrindavana. He entrusted thje worship of Madana Mohana to His disciple, Purusottama Chaube, who then gave the Deity to Sanatana Goswami. Sanatana Goswami spend 43 years in Vrindavana. Worshiped along with Madana Mohana are Radharani and Lalita, who were sent to Vrindavana by Purusottama Jena, the son of Maharaja Prataparudra.
·
This 60 foot high temple was opened in 1580 on a 50 foot hill called Aditya Tila, next to the Yamuna. Ram Das Kapoor paid to build the temple. One day a ship he owned, loaded with merchandise, went aground in the Yamuna. He was advised by Sanatana Goswami to pray to Madana Mohana for help. The ship came free and the owner of the ship made a big profit, which he used to built this temple.
·
Radha-Damodara Temple
This temple was founded by Jiva Goswami. The main Deities here are Sri Radha-Damodara. Other Deities worshiped here are the Radha-Vrindavana Candra Deities of Krishna Dasa Kaviraja Goswami, the Radha-Madhava Deities of Jayadeva Goswami, and the Radha-Chalacikana Deities of Bhugarbha Goswami. The original Deities were all moved to Jaipur. When the original Deities are moved, the replacement Deity is called a pratibhu-murti and is considered as good as the original Deity.
·
Radha-Gokulananda Temple
In this temple you can see the Radha-Vinod Deities of Lokanath Goswami, Radha-Gokulananda Deities of Viswanath Cakravarti, Caitanya Mahaprabhu Deity of Narottama Dasa Thakur, Vijaya Govinda Deities of Baladeva Vidyabhushana, and the Govardhana-shila given by Lord Caitanya to Raghunath Dasa Goswami. The samadhis of Lokanath Goswami, Narottama Dasa, and Viswanath Cakravarti are in front of the temple. Viswanath Cakravarti arranged to have this temple built.
·
Radha-Gopinath Temple
The Deity of Gopinath was discovered at Vamsivat by Paramananda Bhattacarya, who entrusted the Deity's worship to Madhu Pandita. On the altar are deities of Srimati Radharani and Her sister, Ananga Manjari, Madhu Pandita's samadhi is next to the temple.
·
Gopinathji was originally installed in Vrindavana by Vajranabha, the great grandson of Krishna. When the Muslims raided Vrindavana, the original Gopinath Deity was taken to Jaipur. The Gopinath Deity in Jaipur and Lord Krishna are said to exactly resemble each other from Their shoulders down to the waist.
·
Radha- Raman Temple
Gopal Bhatta Goswami established this temple. The Deity of Sri Radha-Raman was manifested from one of Gopal Bhatta Goswami's shalagram-shilas on the full moon day of Vaisakha (April/ May) in 1542. This event is celebrated every year (May) by bathing the Deity with 100 litres of milk and other auspicious items. The remnants of this abhiseka (bathing) are like nectar. Gopal Bhatta Goswami's other shalagram-shilas are worshiped on the altar here. The appearance place of the Sri Radha-Raman Deity is next to the temple. Radha-Ramanji is one of the few original Deities of the Goswami's still in Vrindavana. The standard of worship in this temple is very high.
·
Radha-Syamasundara Temple
These are the Deities of Syamananda Prabhu. Darshan is from 8.30 to 11 am and 5 to 8 pm. It is one of the seven major temples in Vrindavana. Syamananda's samadhi is across the street and down from the entrance of the temple.
·
Seva Kunja (Nikunjavan)
Krishna would massage Radharan's feet and decorate Her hair with flowers here. Once Krishna pushed His flute into the ground here and created a small kund, called Lalita Kund, to satisfy Lalita Sakhi's thirst. No one is allowed within the enclosure at night. The numerous monkeys that are there during the day also leave at night.
·
Sona Gauranga Temple
These Deities were worshiped by Jagannath Dasa Babaji. They are located in a person's house next to Prema Talkies cinema in the lane opposite the Radha Gopinath Temple.
·
Gopiswara Mahadeva Temple
The Siva-linga in this temple was installed by Vajranabha, the great grandson of Krishna. Every morning from 4 am to noon, thousands of people pour Yamuna water over the linga. It is said that the big pipal tree here is a kalpavriksya tree and will fulfil all desires. This temple is in the Vamsivata area.
·
Chir Ghat
Krishna rested here after killing the Kesi demon. Lord Caitanya also rested here. Some people say that the Gopis' clothes were stolen here by Krishna and other say that this pastime happened 14 km up the river.
·
Imli Tala
Sri Caitanya Mahaprabhu would come daily to Imli Tala to chant japa, when He was living in Vrindavana. Imli Tala means the shade of the tamarind tree. Imli means 'tamarind' and tala mean 'tree'. There is a small temple here with Gaura-Nitai and Radha-Krishna Deities.
·
Vrindavana Parikrama
It is customary for devotees to walk around the town of Vrindhavana. There is a parikrama path that goes around the town. This path is one street over from the ISKCON temple. It takes two or three hours to go around the town.
Posted by
lucky
at
19:33
No comments:
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share to Pinterest
Home
Subscribe to:
Posts (Atom)
About Me
lucky
View my complete profile
Simple template. Powered by
Blogger .