வேதம் ***VETHAM *** BY KALAIARASAN KALIYAPERUMAL KATTUMANNARKOIL
Saturday, March 24, 2012
TRAVEL FOR CAREER
/ வேலைக்கான பயணம்
Posted by
Kalaiarasan Kaliyaperumal
at
2:42 AM
No comments:
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share to Pinterest
Labels:
TRAVEL FOR CAREER
Saturday, March 10, 2012
Rigveda
The  Rigveda  ( Sanskrit :  ऋग्वेद   ṛgveda , a  compound  of  ṛc  "praise, verse" [1]  and  veda "knowledge") is an ancient  Indian  sacred collection of  Vedic Sanskrit   hymns . It is counted among the four canonical sacred texts ( śruti ) of  Hinduism  known as the  Vedas . [2]  Some of its verses are still recited as Hindu prayers, at religious functions and other occasions, putting these among the world's oldest  religious texts  in continued use. The Rigveda contains several mythological and poetical accounts of the origin of the world, hymns praising the gods, and ancient prayers for life, prosperity, etc. [3]
It is one of the oldest extant texts in any  Indo-European language .  Philological  and  linguistic evidence indicate that the Rigveda was composed in the north-western region of the  Indian subcontinent , roughly between 1700–1100 BC [4]  (the early  Vedic period ).
The surviving form of the Rigveda is based on an early  Iron Age  (c. 10th c. BC) collection that established the core 'family books' (mandalas  2 – 7 , ordered by author, deity and meter  [5] ) and a later redaction, co-eval with the redaction of the other  Vedas , dating several centuries after the hymns were composed. This redaction also included some additions (contradicting the strict ordering scheme) and  orthoepic  changes to the  Vedic Sanskrit  such as the  regularization  of sandhi  (termed  orthoepische Diaskeuase  by Oldenberg, 1888).
As with the other Vedas, the redacted text has been handed down in several versions, most importantly the  Padapatha  that has each word isolated in  pausa  form and is used for just one way of memorization; and the  Samhitapatha  that combines words according to the rules of sandhi (the process being described in the  Pratisakhya ) and is the memorized text used for recitation.
The  Padapatha  and the  Pratisakhya  anchor the text's fidelity and meaning [6]  and the fixed text was preserved with unparalleled fidelity for more than a millennium by  oral tradition  alone. In order to achieve this the oral tradition prescribed very structured enunciation, involving breaking down the Sanskrit  compounds  into  stems  and inflections, as well as certain permutations. This interplay with sounds gave rise to a  scholarly tradition  of  morphology  and  phonetics . The Rigveda was probably not written down until the  Gupta period  (4th to 6th century AD), by which time the Brahmi script  had become widespread (the oldest surviving manuscripts date to the Late Middle Ages). [7]  The oral tradition still continued into recent times.
The original text (as authored by the  Rishis ) is close to but not identical to the extant Samhitapatha , but metrical and other observations allow to reconstruct (in part at least) the original text from the extant one, as printed in the Harvard Oriental Series, vol. 50 (1994). [ 8 ]
Organization
The text is organized in 10 books, known as Mandalas, of varying age and length. The "family books": mandalas 2–7, are the oldest part of the Rigveda and the shortest books; they are arranged by length and account for 38% of the text. The  eighth  and  ninth  mandalas, comprising hymns of mixed age, account for 15% and 9%, respectively. The  first  and the  tenth  mandalas are the youngest; they are also the longest books, of 191 suktas each, accounting for 37% of the text.
Each mandala consists of hymns called  sūkta  ( su- ukta , literally, "well recited,  eulogy ") intended for various  sacrificial rituals . The  sūkta s in turn consist of individual stanzas called  ṛc  ("praise",  pl.   ṛcas ), which are further analysed into units of verse called  pada  (" foot "). The  meters most used in the  ṛcas  are the  jagati  (a pada consists of 12 syllables),  trishtubh  (11),  viraj  (10),  gayatri  and  anushtubh  (8).
For pedagogical convenience, each mandala is synthetically divided into roughly equal sections of several sūktas, called  anuvāka ("recitation"), which modern publishers often omit. Another scheme divides the entire text over the 10 mandalas into  aṣṭaka  ("eighth"), adhyāya  ("chapter") and  varga  ("class"). Some publishers give both classifications in a single edition.
The most common numbering scheme is by book, hymn and stanza (and pada  a ,  b ,  c  ..., if required). E.g., the first pada is
1.1.1a  agním īḷe puróhitaṃ  "Agni I invoke, the housepriest"
and the final pada is
10.191.4d  yáthā vaḥ súsahā́sati
Recensions
The major Rigvedic  shakha  ("branch", i. e. recension) that has survived is that of  Śākalya . Another shakha that may have survived is the Bāṣkala , although this is uncertain. [9] [10] [11]  The surviving padapatha version of the Rigveda text is ascribed to Śākalya. [12]  The  Śākala recension has 1,017 regular hymns, and an appendix of 11  vālakhilya  hymns [13]  which are now customarily included in the 8th mandala (as 8.49–8.59), for a total of 1028 hymns. [14]  The  Bāṣkala  recension includes 8 of these  vālakhilya  hymns among its regular hymns, making a total of 1025 regular hymns for this śākhā. [15]  In addition, the  Bāṣkala  recension has its own appendix of 98 hymns, the  Khilani . [16]
In the 1877 edition of Aufrecht, the 1028 hymns of the Rigveda contain a total of 10,552  ṛcs , or 39,831 padas. The  Shatapatha Brahmana gives the number of syllables to be 432,000, [17]  while the metrical text of van Nooten and Holland (1994) has a total of 395,563 syllables (or an average of 9.93 syllables per pada); counting the number of syllables is not straightforward because of issues with sandhi and the post-Rigvedic pronunciation of syllables like súvar as svàr.
Rishis
See also:  Anukramani
Tradition associates a  rishi  (the composer) with each  ṛc  of the Rigveda. [18]  Most sūktas are attributed to single composers. The "family books" (2–7) are so-called because they have hymns by members of the same clan in each book; but other clans are also represented in the Rigveda. In all, 10 families of rishis account for more than 95% of the  ṛcs ; for each of them the Rigveda includes a lineage-specific  āprī  hymn (a special sūkta of rigidly formulaic structure, used for animal sacrifice in the  soma   ritual ).
Family Āprī Ṛcas [19]
Angiras I.142 3619 (especially  Mandala 6 )
Kanva I.13 1315 (especially  Mandala 8 )
Vasishtha VII.2 1276 ( Mandala 7 )
Vishvamitra III.4 983 ( Mandala 3 )
Atri V.5 885 ( Mandala 5 )
Bhrgu X.110 473
Kashyapa IX.5 415 (part of  Mandala 9 )
Grtsamada II.3 401 ( Mandala 2 )
Agastya I.188 316
Bharata X.70 170
Manuscripts
There are, for example, 30 manuscripts of Rigveda at the  Bhandarkar Oriental Research Institute , collected in the 19th century by  Georg Bühler , Franz Kielhorn and others, originating from different parts of India, including  Kashmir ,  Gujarat , the then  Rajaputana ,  Central Provinces etc. They were transferred to  Deccan College ,  Pune , in the late 19th century. They are in the  Sharada  and  Devanagari  scripts, written on birch bark and paper. The oldest of them is dated to 1464. The 30 manuscripts of Rigveda preserved at the  Bhandarkar Oriental Research Institute ,  Pune  were added to  UNESCO 's " Memory of the World Register  in 2007. [20] [21]
Of these 30 manuscripts, 9 contain the samhita text, 5 have the  padapatha  in addition. 13 contain Sayana's commentary. At least 5 manuscripts (MS. no. 1/A1879-80, 1/A1881-82, 331/1883-84 and 5/Viś I) have preserved the complete text of the Rigveda. MS no. 5/1875-76, written on birch bark in bold Sharada, was only in part used by  Max Müller  for his edition of the Rigveda with Sayana's commentary.
Müller used 24 manuscripts then available to him in Europe, while the Pune Edition used over five dozen manuscripts, but the editors of Pune Edition could not procure many manuscripts used by Müller and by the Bombay Edition, as well as from some other sources; hence the total number of extant manuscripts known then must surpass perhaps eighty at least [ 22 ]
Contents
See also:  Rigvedic deities
The Rigvedic hymns are dedicated to various deities, chief of whom are  Indra , a heroic god praised for having slain his enemy  Vrtra ;  Agni , the sacrificial fire; and  Soma , the sacred potion or the plant it is made from. Equally prominent gods are the  Adityas  or Asura gods  Mitra – Varuna and  Ushas  (the dawn). Also invoked are  Savitr ,  Vishnu ,  Rudra ,  Pushan ,  Brihaspati  or  Brahmanaspati , as well as deified natural phenomena such as  Dyaus Pita  (the shining sky, Father Heaven ),  Prithivi  (the earth, Mother Earth),  Surya  (the sun god),  Vayu  or Vata (the wind),  Apas (the waters),  Parjanya  (the thunder and rain),  Vac  (the word), many  rivers  (notably the  Sapta Sindhu , and the  Sarasvati River ). The  Adityas , Vasus, Rudras, Sadhyas,  Ashvins ,  Maruts ,  Rbhus , and the  Vishvadevas  ("all-gods") as well as the "thirty-three gods" are the groups of deities mentioned.
The hymns mention various further minor gods, persons, phenomena and items, and contain fragmentary references to possible historical events, notably the struggle between the early Vedic people (known as  Vedic Aryans , a subgroup of the  Indo-Aryans ) and their enemies, the Dasa  or Dasyu and their mythical prototypes, the Paṇi (the Bactrian Parna).
Rigveda  ( padapatha ) manuscript in  Devanagari , early 19th century. After a scribal benediction ( "śrīgaṇéśāyanamaḥ ;; Aum(3) ;;" ), the first line has the opening words of RV.1.1.1 ( agniṃ ; iḷe ; puraḥ-hitaṃ ; yajñasya ; devaṃ ; ṛtvijaṃ ). The Vedic accent  is marked by underscores and vertical overscores in red.
Mandala 1  comprises 191 hymns. Hymn 1.1 is addressed to  Agni , and his name is the first word of the  Rigveda . The remaining hymns are mainly addressed to Agni and  Indra , as well as Varuna, Mitra, the Ashvins, the Maruts, Usas, Surya, Rbhus, Rudra, Vayu, Brhaspati, Visnu, Heaven and Earth, and all the Gods.
Mandala 2  comprises 43 hymns, mainly to  Agni  and  Indra . It is chiefly attributed to the Rishi  gṛtsamada śaunahotra .
Mandala 3  comprises 62 hymns, mainly to  Agni  and  Indra  and the Vishvedevas. The verse 3.62.10 has great importance in  Hinduism  as the  Gayatri Mantra . Most hymns in this book are attributed to  viśvāmitra gāthinaḥ .
Mandala 4  comprises 58 hymns, mainly to  Agni  and  Indra  as well as the Rbhus, Ashvins, Brhaspati, Vayu, Usas, etc. Most hymns in this book are attributed to vāmadeva gautama .
Mandala 5  comprises 87 hymns, mainly to  Agni  and  Indra , the  Visvedevas  ("all the gods'), the  Maruts , the twin-deity  Mitra-Varuna  and the  Asvins . Two hymns each are dedicated to  Ushas  (the dawn) and to  Savitr . Most hymns in this book are attributed to the  atri  clan.
Mandala 6  comprises 75 hymns, mainly to  Agni  and  Indra , all the gods, Pusan, Ashvin, Usas, etc. Most hymns in this book are attributed to the  bārhaspatya family of  Angirasas .
Mandala 7  comprises 104 hymns, to  Agni ,  Indra , the  Visvadevas , the  Maruts , Mitra-Varuna , the  Asvins ,  Ushas ,  Indra-Varuna ,  Varuna ,  Vayu  (the wind), two each to  Sarasvati  (ancient river/goddess of learning) and  Vishnu , and to others. Most hymns in this book are attributed to  vasiṣṭha maitravaruṇi .
Mandala 8  comprises 103 hymns to various gods. Hymns 8.49 to 8.59 are the apocryphal  vālakhilya . Hymns 1–48 and 60–66 are attributed to the  kāṇva  clan, the rest to other (Angirasa) poets.
Mandala 9  comprises 114 hymns, entirely devoted to  Soma  Pavamana , the cleansing of the sacred potion of the Vedic religion.
Mandala 10  comprises additional 191 hymns, frequently in later language, addressed to  Agni ,  Indra  and various other deities. It contains the  Nadistuti sukta  which is in praise of rivers and is important for the reconstruction of the geography of the Vedic civilization and the Purusha sukta  which has great significance in Hindu social tradition. It also contains the  Nasadiya sukta  (10.129), probably the most celebrated hymn in the west, which deals with creation. The marriage hymns (10.85) and the death hymns (10.10–18) still are of great importance in the performance of the corresponding  Grhya  rituals.
Dating and historical context
Geography of the Rigveda, with  river names ; the extent of the Swat  and  Cemetery H  cultures are also indicated.
The Rigveda's core is accepted to date to the late  Bronze Age , making it one of the few examples with an unbroken tradition. Its composition is usually dated to roughly between 1700–1100 BC. [23]  The  Encyclopedia of Indo-European Culture (s.v.  Indo-Iranian languages , p. 306) gives 1500–1000 BC. [24]  Being composed in an early  Indo-Aryan  language, the hymns must post-date the  Indo-Iranian separation, dated to roughly 2000 BC. [25]  A reasonable date close to that of the composition of the core of the Rigveda is that of the Indo-Aryan Mitanni documents of c. 1400 BC. [26]  Other evidence also points to a composition close to 1400 BC [27] [28]
The  Rigveda  is far more archaic than any other Indo-Aryan text. For this reason, it was in the center of attention of western scholarship from the times of  Max Müller  and  Rudolf Roth  onwards. The  Rigveda  records an early stage of  Vedic religion . There are strong linguistic and cultural similarities with the  early Iranian Avesta , [29]  deriving from the  Proto-Indo-Iranian  times, [30] [31]  often associated with the early  Andronovo culture  of ca. 2000 BC. [32]
The text in the following centuries underwent pronunciation revisions and standardization ( samhitapatha ,  padapatha ). This redaction would have been completed around the 6th century BC. [33]  Exact dates are not established, but they fall within the pre-Buddhist period (500, or rather 400 BC).
Writing appears in India around the 3rd century BC in the form of the  Brahmi  script, but texts of the length of the Rigveda were likely not written down until much later, the oldest surviving Rigvedic manuscript dating to the 14th century. [ dubious   –  discuss ]  While written manuscripts were used for teaching in medieval times, they were written on birch bark or palm leaves, which decompose fairly quickly in the tropical climate, until the advent of the  printing press  from the 16th [ dubious   –  discuss ]  century. Some Rigveda commentaries may date from the second half of the first millennium CE. The hymns were thus preserved by  oral tradition  for up to a millennium from the time of their composition until the redaction of the Rigveda, and the entire Rigveda was preserved in  shakhas  for another 2,500 years from the time of its redaction until the editio princeps  by Rosen, Aufrecht and Max Müller.
After their composition, the texts were preserved and codified by an extensive body of  Vedic priesthood  as the central philosophy of the Iron Age  Vedic civilization . The  Brahma Purana  and the  Vayu Purana  name one  Vidagdha  as the author of the Padapatha. [34]  The  Rk-pratishakhya  names  Sthavira Shakalya  of the  Aitareya Aranyaka  as its author. [35]
The  Rigveda  describes a mobile, semi- nomadic  culture, with horse-drawn  chariots , oxen-drawn wagons, and metal (bronze) weapons. The geography described is consistent with that of the Greater  Punjab :  Rivers  flow north to south, the mountains are relatively remote but still visible and reachable ( Soma  is a plant found in the high mountains, and it has to be purchased from tribal people). Nevertheless, the hymns were certainly composed over a long period, with the oldest (not preserved) elements possibly reaching back to times close to the split of Proto-Indo-Iranian  (around 2000 BC) [36]  Thus there was some debate over whether the boasts of the destruction of stone forts by the Vedic Aryans and particularly by Indra refer to cities of the  Indus Valley civilization  or whether they rather hark back to clashes between the early Indo-Aryans  with the  BMAC  in what is now northern  Afghanistan  and southern  Turkmenistan  (separated from the upper  Indus  by the  Hindu Kush  mountain range, and some 400 km distant).
While it is highly likely that the bulk of the Rigvedic hymns were composed in the Punjab, even if based on earlier poetic traditions, there is no mention of either  tigers  or  rice [37]  in the  Rigveda  (as opposed to the later Vedas), suggesting that Vedic culture only penetrated into the plains of India after its completion. Similarly, there is no mention of  iron  as the term ayas occurring in the Rig Veda refers to useful metal in general. [38]  The "black metal" ( kṛṣṇa ayas ) is first mentioned in the post-Rigvedic texts (Atharvaveda etc.). The Iron Age in northern India begins in the 10th century in the Greater Panjab. There is a widely accepted timeframe for the beginning codification of the  Rigveda  by compiling the hymns very late in the Rigvedic or rather in the early post-Rigvedic period, including the arrangement of the individual hymns in ten books, coeval with and the composition of the younger Veda Samhitas. This time coincides with the early  Kuru  kingdom, shifting the center of Vedic culture east from the Punjab into what is now  Uttar Pradesh . The fixing of the samhitapatha (by keeping  Sandhi ) intact and of the padapatha (by dissolving Sandhi out of the earlier metrical text), occurred during the later Brahmana period.
Some of the names of  gods and goddesses  found in the  Rigveda  are found amongst other belief systems based on  Proto-Indo-European religion , while words used share common  roots  with words from other  Indo-European languages .
The  horse  ( ashva ),  cattle , sheep and goat play an important role in the Rigveda. There are also references to the  elephant  ( Hastin , Varana), camel  (Ustra, especially in  Mandala 8 ), ass (khara, rasabha),  buffalo  (Mahisa),  wolf ,  hyena ,  lion  (Simha), mountain goat (sarabha) and to the gaur  in the Rigveda. [39]  The  peafowl  (mayura), the goose ( hamsa ) and the  chakravaka  (Anas casarca) are some birds mentioned in the Rigveda.
Ancillary texts
Rigveda Brahmanas
See also:  Brahmana
Of the Brahmanas that were handed down in the schools of the  Bahvṛcas  (i.e. "possessed of many verses"), as the followers of the Rigveda are called, two have come down to us, namely those of the Aitareyins and the Kaushitakins. The  Aitareya-brahmana [40]  and the  Kaushitaki- (or  Sankhayana- )  brahmana  evidently have for their groundwork the same stock of traditional exegetic matter. They differ, however, considerably as regards both the arrangement of this matter and their stylistic handling of it, with the exception of the numerous legends common to both, in which the discrepancy is comparatively slight. There is also a certain amount of material peculiar to each of them.
The Kaushitaka is, upon the whole, far more concise in its style and more systematic in its arrangement features which would lead one to infer that it is probably the more modern work of the two. It consists of thirty chapters ( adhyaya ); while the Aitareya has forty, divided into eight books (or pentads,  pancaka ), of five chapters each. The last ten adhyayas of the latter work are, however, clearly a later addition though they must have already formed part of it at the time of  Pāṇini  (ca. 5th c. BC), if, as seems probable, one of his grammatical sutras, regulating the formation of the names of Brahmanas, consisting of thirty and forty adhyayas, refers to these two works. In this last portion occurs the well-known legend (also found in the Shankhayana-sutra, but not in the Kaushitaki-brahmana) of  Shunahshepa , whom his father Ajigarta sells and offers to slay, the recital of which formed part of the inauguration of kings.
While the Aitareya deals almost exclusively with the Soma sacrifice, the Kaushitaka, in its first six chapters, treats of the several kinds of haviryajna , or offerings of rice, milk, ghee, &c., whereupon follows the Soma sacrifice in this way, that chapters 7–10 contain the practical ceremonial and 11–30 the recitations ( shastra ) of the hotar. Sayana, in the introduction to his commentary on the work, ascribes the Aitareya to the sage Mahidasa Aitareya (i.e. son of Itara), also mentioned elsewhere as a philosopher; and it seems likely enough that this person arranged the Brahmana and founded the school of the Aitareyins. Regarding the authorship of the sister work we have no information, except that the opinion of the sage Kaushitaki is frequently referred to in it as authoritative, and generally in opposition to the Paingya—the Brahmana, it would seem, of a rival school, the Paingins. Probably, therefore, it is just what one of the manuscripts calls it—the Brahmana of Sankhayana (composed) in accordance with the views of Kaushitaki.
Rigveda Aranyakas
See also:  Aranyaka
Each of these two Brahmanas is supplemented by a "forest book", or  Aranyaka . The  Aitareyaranyaka  is not a uniform production. It consists of five books ( aranyaka ), three of which, the first and the last two, are of a liturgical nature, treating of the ceremony called  mahavrata , or great vow. The last of these books, composed in sutra form, is, however, doubtless of later origin, and is, indeed, ascribed by Hindu authorities either to Shaunaka or to Ashvalayana. The second and third books, on the other hand, are purely speculative, and are also styled the  Bahvrca-brahmana-upanishad . Again, the last four chapters of the second book are usually singled out as the  Aitareyopanishad , ascribed, like its Brahmana (and the first book), to Mahidasa Aitareya; and the third book is also referred to as the  Samhita-upanishad . As regards the  Kaushitaki-aranyaka , this work consists of 15 adhyayas, the first two (treating of the mahavrata ceremony) and the 7th and 8th of which correspond to the 1st, 5th, and 3rd books of the Aitareyaranyaka, respectively, whilst the four adhyayas usually inserted between them constitute the highly interesting  Kaushitaki (brahmana-) upanishad , of which we possess two different recensions. The remaining portions (9–15) of the Aranyaka treat of the vital airs, the internal Agnihotra, etc., ending with the  vamsha , or succession of teachers.
Medieval Hindu scholarship
According to Hindu tradition, the Rigvedic hymns were collected by  Paila  under the guidance of  Vyāsa , who formed the Rigveda Samhita as we know it. [ citation needed ]  According to the  Śatapatha Brāhmana , the number of syllables in the  Rigveda  is 432,000, equalling the number of muhurtas (1 day = 30 muhurtas) in forty years. This statement stresses the underlying philosophy of the Vedic books that there is a connection (bandhu) between the astronomical, the  physiological , and the spiritual [ citation needed ] .
The authors of the  Brāhmana  literature discussed and interpreted the Vedic ritual.  Yaska  was an early commentator of the  Rigveda  by discussing the meanings of difficult words. In the 14th century,  Sāyana  wrote an exhaustive commentary on it.
A number of other commentaries  bhāṣya s  were written during the medieval period, including the commentaries by  Skandasvamin  (pre-Sayana, roughly of the  Gupta period ),  Udgitha  (pre-Sayana),  Venkata-Madhava  (pre-Sayana, ca. 10th to 12th century) and  Mudgala  (after Sayana, an abbreviated version of Sayana's commentary). [41]
In contemporary Hinduism
Hindu revivalism
Since the 19th and 20th centuries, some reformers like  Swami Dayananda Saraswati , founder of the  Arya Samaj  and  Sri Aurobindo  have attempted to re-interpret the Vedas to conform to modern and established moral and spiritual norms. Dayananda considered the Vedas (which he defined to include only the  samhitas ) to be source of truth, totally free of error and containing the seeds of all valid knowledge. Contrary to common understanding, he was adamant that Vedas were monotheistic and that they did not sanction idol worship. [42]  Starting 1877, he intended to publish commentary on the four vedas but completed work on only the Yajurveda, and a partial commentary on the Rigveda. Dayananda's work is not highly regarded by Vedic scholars and Indologist  Louis Renou , among others, dismissed it as, "a vigorous (and from our point of view, extremely aberrant) interpretation in the social and political sense." [43] [44]
Dayananda and Aurobindo moved [ clarification needed ]  the  Vedantic  perception of the  Rigveda  from the original ritualistic content to a more symbolic or mystical interpretation. [ dubious   –  discuss ]  For example, instances of  animal sacrifice  were not seen by them as literal slaughtering, but as  transcendental  processes.
"Indigenous Aryans" debate
Further information:  Indigenous Aryans  and  Out of India theory
Questions surrounding the Rigvedic  Sarasvati River  and the  Nadistuti sukta  in particular have become tied to an ideological debate on the Indo-Aryan migration  (termed "Aryan Invasion Theory") versus the claim that Vedic culture, together with  Vedic Sanskrit , originated in the Indus Valley Civilization  (termed " Out of India theory "), a topic of great significance in  Hindu nationalism , addressed for example by  K. D. Sethna  and in Shrikant G. Talageri's  The Rigveda: A Historical Analysis .  Subhash Kak  (1994) claimed that there is an "astronomical code" in the organization of the hymns.  Bal Gangadhar Tilak , also based on astronomical alignments in the Rigveda, in his "The Orion" (1893) had claimed presence of the Rigvedic culture in India in the 4th millennium BC, and in his  The Arctic Home in the Vedas  (1903) even argued that the Aryans originated near the North Pole and came south during the  ice age .
Debate on alternative suggestions on the date of the Rigveda, typically much earlier dates, are mostly taking place outside of scholarly literature. Some writers out of the mainstream claim to trace  astronomical references in the Rigveda , dating it to as early as 4000 BC, [45]  a date well within the  Indian Neolithic . [46]  Publications to this effect have increased during the late 1990s to early 2000s in the context of historical revisionism  in  Hindu nationalism , notably in books published by  Voice of India . [47]
Posted by
Kalaiarasan Kaliyaperumal
at
12:33 AM
No comments:
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share to Pinterest
Labels:
rig veda
Home
Subscribe to:
Posts (Atom)
hari om namo narayana
Hari om namo narayana.wma Powered by
mp3skull.com
About Me
Kalaiarasan Kaliyaperumal
View my complete profile
Blog Archive
▼
2012
(2)
▼
March
(2)
TRAVEL FOR CAREER
/ வேலைக்கான பயணம்
Rigveda
Watermark template. Template images by
Storman . Powered by
Blogger .