world city: Kurukshetra
world city
Information regarding various cities in india.
Thursday, February 3, 2011
Kurukshetra
pronunciation   ( help · info )  ( Hindi :  कुरुक्षेत्र ) is a land of historical importance. Historically the land belonged to Punjab now a district in  Haryana  state of  India . It is a holy place and is also known as Dharmakshetra ("Holy City"). According to the Puranas, Kurukshetra is named after King Kuru, the ancestor of Kauravas and Pandavas, as depicted in epic  Mahabharata . The importance of the place is attributed to the fact that the  Kurukshetra War  of the  Mahabharata  was fought on this land and the Bhagavad Gita  was preached on this land during the war when Lord Krishna found Arjuna in a terrible dilemma. [ 1 ] Rashtrakavi  Ramdhari Singh 'Dinkar'  has written an  epic poem  by the title of Kurukshetra . It is a narrative poem based on the  Santi Parva  of the  Mahabharata . [ 2 ]  It was written at a time when the memories of the  Second World War  were fresh on the mind of the poet. [ 2 ] Thanesar  or  Sthaneswar  is a historical town located adjacent to what is now the newly created Kurukshetra city. Thanesar derives its name from the word "Sthaneshwar", which means "Place of God". The Sthaneshwar Mahadev Temple, whose presiding deity is Lord Shiva, is believed to be the oldest temple in the vicinity. Local hearsay identifies the legendary "Kurukshetra" with a nearby place known as  Thanesar . A few kilometeres from Kurukshetra is the village known as  Amin , where there are remnants of a fort which is believed to be  Abhimanyu 's fort. In some ancient Hindu texts, the boundaries of Kurukshetra correspond roughly to the state of Haryana. Thus according to the  Taittiriya Aranyaka  5.1.1., the Kurukshetra region is south of Turghna (Srughna/Sugh in  Sirhind , Punjab), north of Khandava (Delhi and  Mewat  region), east of Maru (desert) and west of Parin. [ 3 ]
[ edit ] History A manuscript of  Mahabharata  depicting the war at Kurukshetra It is written in  Puranas  that Kurukshetra is named after King  Kuru  of the  Bharata  Dynasty, ancestor of Pandavas and Kauravas. The  Vamana Purana  tells how King Kuru came to settle on this land. He chose this land at the banks of  Sarasvati River  for embedding spirituality with 8 virtues: austerity ( tapas ), truth ( satya ), forgiveness (kshama), kindness ( daya ), purity ( sucha ), charity ( dana ),  yagya  and brahmacharya . Lord  Vishnu  was impressed with the act of King Kuru and blessed him. God gave him two boons, one that this land forever will be known as a Holy Land after his name as Kurukshetra (the land of Kuru) and the other that anyone dying on this land will be going to heaven. The land of Kurukshetra was situated between two rivers — the Sarasvati and the Drishadvati.
Bronze Chariot with Lord  Krishna  and Arjuna This land has been known as Uttravedi, Brahmavedi, Dharamkshetra and Kurukshetra at different periods. When King Kuru came on this land it was called Uttarvedi. Over the period this land has been ruled by many empires. The Bharata Dynasty came and settled on this land. Later the Battle of  Mahabharata  was fought on this land, during which Lord  Krishna  preached Bhagavad Gita  to  Arjuna . It reached the zenith of its progress during the reign of King  Harsha , during which  Chinese scholar  Hieun Tsang  visited this land at  Thanesar . By the archaeological grounds it has been proved that  Ashoka  the Great made Kurukshetra a centre of learning for people from all over the world. [ edit ] Places of interest Brahma Sarovar : Every year  lakhs  of people come to take a holy bath at Brahma Sarovar on the occasion of "Somavati Amavasya" (Sacred No-Moon Day that happens on a Monday) and on Sun-eclipse believed that bath in holy sarovar free from all sins and cycle of birth-death.
Sannihit Sarovar : This Sarovar is believed to be the meeting point of seven sacred Saraswatis. The sarovar, according to popular belief, contains sacred water. Bathing in the waters of the tank on the day of Amavasya (night of complete darkness) or on the day of an eclipse bestows blessings equivalent to performing the ashvamedh yajna.
Bhishma Kund
Jyotisar : The famous site where  Bhagavad Gita  was delivered to Arjuna
Krishna Museum: Has some historical artifacts and paintings depicting the Mahabharata war.
Kurukshetra Panorama and Science centre: A world-class panorama depicting the Mahabharata war with scientific explanations justifying every episode in the war. There are also several scientific exhibits designed to kindle a curiosity for science.
Kalpana Chawla Planetarium
Kessel Mall : A must visit Shopping Mall cum Multiplex at Sector-17 Kurukshetra for Food, Shopping and Entertainment.
Light and Sound Show : A newly built tourist attraction which highlights some aspects of Geeta Saar through lights and sound.
Dharohar: A must visit to know the tradition and culture of Haryana; located in  Kurukshetra University .
Bhishma Kund at Naraktari: The place where Arjuna shot an arrow towards the earth to quench Bhisma Pitamah's thirst.
Saraswati Forest Reserve: It is a large reserved forest area with rich flora and fauna in Kurukshetra district.
Sheikh Chehli ka makbara (tomb): This monument is maintained by the  Archeological Survey of India . It was built during the  Mughal era  in remembrance of Sufi Saint Sheikh Chehli, believed to be the spiritual teacher of Mughal Prince  Dara Shikoh .
Sthaneshwar Mahadev
Kamal Nabhi
Valmiki Ashram
Birla Mandir
Gurdwara Raj Ghat Patshahi Dasvin
Gurdwara Chhevin Patshahi
Gurdwara Siddh Bati Patshahi Pahili
Pehowa
Ban Ganga in village Dayalpur
Bhadrakali Mandir - a temple that is one of the 52  Shakti Peethas . As per the story in Hindu mythology, the goddess Sati killed herself by entering the Yagna of Raja Daksha as a protest against the insult of Lord Shiva. Remorseful Lord Shiva wandered across the whole universe with the corpse of his beloved Sati on his shoulder. To bring him back to the original mood, it was necessary to destroy the corpse of Sati. Lord Vishnu hence cut the corpse in 52 pieces with his  Sudarshana Chakra . The different parts fell at different places where the temples of the goddess were later built by the devotees. Collectively, these are known as the 52 Shakti Peethas. One of them is in Kurukhsetra, where the ankle of the goddess fell.
[ edit ] Jhansa Jhansa  is a village in the Kurukshetra district. It is known for its river and canals, and the Markanda temple, built on the banks of the Markanda River. There is a beautiful scenic view in the village where SYL Bhakhra Canal and Markanda River intersects. In the summer you can have a chilling bath in Gulla Canal and Bhakhra Canal. [ edit ] Educational institutes National Institute of Technology, Kurukshetra
NIT
Kurukshetra University : one of the  India 's premier universities, established in 1956
University Institute of Engineering and Technology, Kurukhsetra University
Gita Niketan Awasiya Vidyalaya, Kurukshetra
Shri Krishna Govt Ayurvedic College And Hospital, Kurukshetra.
University Senior Secondary Model School, (Inside Kurukshetra University Campus)
* Geeta Institute of Mgmt and Technology,kanipla, kurukhshetra [ edit ] Hospitals
lok nayak jai prakash civil hospital,kurukshetra.
Swami Anant Charitable Eye Hospital
Sahni Nursing Home: De-addiction center/for drug and alcohol addicts. It is located on the main road (Pipli road) Kurukshetra.
[ edit ] District administration The  Deputy Commissioner , an officer belonging to the  Indian Administrative Service , is in charge of the General Administration in the district . He is assisted by a number of officers belonging to Haryana Civil Service and other Haryana state services.
The  Superintendent of Police , an officer belonging to the  Indian Police Service , is responsible for maintaining Law & Order and related issues in the district. He is assisted by the officers of the Haryana Police Service and other Haryana Police officials.
The  Deputy Conservator of Forests , an officer belonging to the  Indian Forest Service , is responsible for the management of the Forests, Environment and Wild-Life in the district. He is assisted by the officers of the Haryana Forest Service and other Haryana Forest officials and Haryana Wildlife officials.
Sectoral development is looked after by the district head/officer of each development department such as PWD, Health, Education, Agriculture, Animal Husbandry, etc. These officers are from various Haryana state services.
Shahbad ,  Ladwa ,  Pehowa ,  Ismailabad  and  Jhansa  are other towns in the district with significant populations.
Posted by
world city
at
1:54 AM
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share to Pinterest
Labels:
indian city
No comments:
Post a Comment
Newer Post
Older Post
Home
Subscribe to:
Post Comments (Atom)
affiliate marketing
Followers
Blog Archive
▼
2011
(517)
►
September
(2)
►
August
(7)
►
July
(15)
►
June
(1)
►
May
(9)
►
April
(3)
►
March
(32)
▼
February
(299)
A plethora of government initiatives to provide ac...
Market conscienceTNN | In recent years, terms lik...
57Indians are rightly excited by the jasmine revo...
ALLAHABAD: The police have identified the robbers...
LWD celebrates woman power to spread awarenessTNN...
PATNA
Bangalore district General information
A VILLAGE AND FARM RESORT WITH REAL E...
Wikipedia (pronounced /ˌwɪkɨˈpiːdi.ə/ WIK-i-PEE-d...
Pratapgarh, is a town in Rajasthan, India. It is ...
Pratapgarh FortPratapgarh, a very strong hill for...
Noida Properties
...
Kanpur Property
...
Surat Property
...
Nagpur
Mumbai Properties
Ludhiana Property
...
Shimla Property Shimla properties have grabbed th...
Jammu Property
Jammu real estate, despite being ...
Ghaziabad Property
The demand for Ghaziabad Prop...
Lucknow Properties
Lucknow properties were nev...
allhabd
Anil Kapoor (Hindi: अनिल कपूर, Punjabi: ਅਨਿਲ ਕਪੂਰ...
Karisma Kapoor (Hindi: करिश्मा कपूर, born 25 June...
Juhi Chawla (Hindi: जूही चावला, born 13 November ...
Kareena Kapoor (Hindi: करीना कपूर, pronounced [kə...
Salman Khan (Hindi: सलमान ख़ान, Urdu: عبد الرشید ...
Our LinksHomeWorld Cup 2011 Live Score World Cup...
Sachin Ramesh Tendulkar  pronunciation (help·info...
Irfan Khan Pathan (Hindi: इरफ़ान ख़ान पठान, Urdu:...
as founded as an offshoot of Nupedia, a now-aband...
Udaipur Hotels
Leh Ladakh With Gallery
Shimla Hotels
The Oberoi ...
Pune Hotels
Le Meridien, Pune
Le Meridien Pune is ...
ASHOK HOTEL NEW DELHI
Pune Hotels
Khajuraho IntroductionKhajuraho Historykhajurah...
Mysore Hotels
Hotel Chandela
Jodhpur Hotels
Umaid Bhawan Palace
Hotel Panihari
Comfort Inn Hawa Mahal Hotel Jaipur
Hyderabad HotelsTaj Mahal Hotel
Abids Road, Hyde...
Goa Hotels Li
Dehradun Hotels
Chennai Hotels
Chennai Hotels
Calcutta Hotels
indie hotaol
InterContinental
Bangalore Hotels
Bangalore Hotels
Comfort Inn Vijay Residency Hotel...
Hotels In AmritsarWe are the renowned Travel Agen...
This 3 Star property near Nehru Bridge Corner ha...
Located in the north of India, Agra is a beautif...
Hotels in India
Ajmer
Ahmedabad
Hotel Facilities
Amenities:Front Desk,Business Ce...
Places Covered : Delhi - Jaipur - Jaisalmer - Jod...
The Taj Palace
Hotel, New ...
Agra
Agartala
Beawar
Bawani Khera
Bawal
Barwani
Barrackpur
Barnala
Barmer
Baripada
Bathinda
Basna
Bandikui
Barh
Bargarh
Bareilly
Barakar
Banda
Bamra
Balrampur
Ballia
Ballabhgarh
Bali
Balasore
Balangir
Balaghat
Bahraich
Baharampur
Burhanpur
Bahadurgarh
Anantapur
Anand
Anakapalle
Amroha
Amritsar
Amreli
Amravati
Ammakandakara
►
January
(149)
About Me
world city
India
View my complete profile
Awesome Inc. template. Powered by
Blogger .