INDIAN History and General Knowledge
INDIAN History and General Knowledge
This is for IAS and IPS Exam and for general knowledge Preparation. In this blog we can know more about india and indian and world geography,current affairs,indian polity and national-international importance.
Wednesday, July 6, 2011
HOW TO BECOME IAS and IPS
IAS (Indian Administrative Services) officer
IPS (Indian Police Services) officer etc…
Is all done though the same “UPSC held Civil Services” examination! This is the point of view of becoming an IAS officer. However, the procedure to become an IPS . officer is also the same!
If you are interested in becoming an IAS officer, you probably know what the IAS is all about and why becoming an IAS officer is a very good career option. However, just incase you do not know, let us give you some quick information on IAS! If you become an IAS officer, you become part of the Indian Administrative Service. You will be part of the Govt. You can work from “the inside” and change “the system”!!
If you have a dream for India, or if you, like us, believe that India will soon be a “super-power”. If you want to be part of the process of making India a great nation, IAS is for you! Being an IAS officer, there is a lot more power and control you have so that you can be part of Emerging India!
Besides that, IAS is a great career option! You get many “perks of the job” when you are an IAS officer. You will have “job security”, “discount on Govt. services”, “Govt. provided transportation” and many more things... Even though the monthly salary provided by the IAS career is not too high, the “perks” make up for the less salary!
However, getting into the IAS is not that easy! There is a very competitive “one year long” exam! To get into the IAS, you probably will have to try more than once before you succeed. And even if you clear the exam, then you have to get a very good score to qualify for the IAS! So, basically getting into the IAS is not that easy.
Can anyone apply, what is the eligibility criteria? I. Academic Eligibility
The candidate must possess a degree from an Indian University or an educational institution deemed as a University or possess an equivalent qualification. Those in the final year of a degree course can also appear in the Preliminary Examination.
II. Other Eligibility Conditions
For the IAS and the IPS, the candidate must be a citizen of India.
For the other services, a candidate must be either:
a citizen of India, or
a subject of Nepal, or
a subject of Bhutan, or
a Tibetan refugee who came over to India before January 1, 1962, with the intention of permanently settling in India, or
a person of Indian origin who has migrated from Pakistan, Burma, Sri Lanka, East African countries of Kenya, Uganda, the United Republic of Tanzania, Zambia, Malawi, Zaire, Ethiopia and Vietnam with the intention of permanently settling in India.
iii. The candidate must have attained 21 years of age on August 1st of the year of examination and must not have attained 30 years of age on that date. The upper age limit will be relaxed by 3 years for OBC candidates and 5 years for SC/ST candidates. The upper age limit is also relaxed in favor of certain categories of civil servants working under the Government of India and Defense Services Personnel.
These are the Govt. stated eligibility criteria. If you come under these, you can give the exam.
When is the examination usually conducted? The notification for the examination (giving the rules and syllabus for all the subjects in the examination) is published in the month of December every year in the 'Employment News' / 'Rozgar Samachar' and 'Gazette of India', as well as, in some leading Newspapers.
You should try to get a copy of this notification. The “Preliminary Examination” is usually held in May / June and the “Main Examination” in October / November of the same calendar year.
If you are wondering what the “Main Examination” and the “Preliminary Examination” is, don’t worry! We will be explaining all this in the next page.
How many times are you allowed to give the exam? If you belong to the “Open Category” you can give the exam 4 times maximum!
If you belong to the “OBC” you can give the exam 7 times.
If you belong to the “SC/ST” you can give the exam as many times as you want. There is no restriction on the number of times!
Where is the exam conducted? Is there a exam center in my city? The following cities have exam centers:
Agartala
Gangtok
Panaji ( Goa )
Ahmedabad
Hyderabad
Patna
Aizawl
Imphal
Pondicherry
Aligarh
Itanagar
Port Blair
Allahabad
Jaipur
Raipur
Aurangabad
Jammu
Ranchi
Bangalore
Jodhpur
Sambalpur
Bareilly
Jorhat
Shillong
Bhopal
Kochi
Shimla
Chandigarh
Kohima
Srinagar
Chennai
Kolkata
Thiruvananthapuram
Cuttack
Lucknow
Tirupati
Dehradun
Madurai
Udaipur
Delhi
Mumbai
Vishakhapatnam
Dharwar
Nagpur
Dispur
Okay, now let us understand the “format” of the exam...
Pattern of the Civil Service Exam
The Civil Service Examination has a complicated format! The complete exam stretches over a period of one year! So, before you go ahead, let us first try to understand the “format” of the exam.
First of all, in the month of May or June there are the “Preliminary examinations”. Now, in this examination, there are two papers. The papers are on:
1.
General Studies (150 marks)
2.
Some optional subject
(300 marks)
This exam is just to get you to the next round of the “main exam”. This is just to short list candidates. The score you get here is NOT added to your final score.
Now, you are probably wondering what “general studies” and “some optional subject” means, so let us clear that up!
General Studies Paper…. General Studies paper consists of questions on:
Indian Polity & Economy
History of India including Indian National Movement
Indian and World Geography
Current Affairs of National and International Importance
General and day-to-day Science
Mental Ability and Basics of Statistics etc.
Questions on planning, budgeting, developmental programs, latest issues of political and constitutional importance, panchayati raj, electoral reforms, natural resources, culture, growth of nationalism, Committees, Commission etc can be expected every year.
Now-a-days, there is a lot of emphasis on “current affairs” in the general studies paper!
Basically, the syllabus is HUGE and vague. But, don’t worry we shall try to help you with what you need to do. How to prepare for these papers is given later on in the “How to prepare” section…
“Some optional subject” paper Here you have to give a paper on a subject of your choice. You can choose from the following subjects:
Agriculture
Animal Husbandry and Veterinary Science
Botany
Chemistry
Civil Engineering
Commerce
Economics
Electrical Engineering
Geography
Geology
Indian History
Law
Mathematics
Mechanical Engineering
Medical Science
Philosophy
Physics
Political Science
Psychology
Public Administration
Sociology
Statistics
Zoology
As, you know, to give the exam you need to be a “graduate” in some field. People generally choose their optional subject as the same subject that they graduated in. However, there is no such compulsion. You can choose any subject and give your "optional subject paper" for that subject.
Okay, now after you have given the prelims, you have to wait for the result and see if you got selected for the “Main Examination”! The results generally come out by July or August!
Once the results are out, you will know whether you are going to be appearing for the “Main Examination” or not!
Now, in the main examination, there are “9” papers that you have to give! These papers include:
1 Essay type Indian Language Qualifying Paper (300 marks)
1 English
Qualifying Paper (300 marks)
1 General Essay type paper (200 marks)
2 General Studies papers (300 marks each)
4 Optional subjects papers (300 marks each)
Then finally, if you qualify after the “main examination” stage, you have to go for an interview. In the interview, you are tested on basis of your personality, mental ability etc. It is seen how suitable the job will be for you. And, if the interviewers like you, you are selected.
This complete process takes about one year. The preparation for this starts 4-5 yeas in advance. And out of the 2 lakh people that apply, only 400 to 500 are selected! To add to all this, if you are selected and only if you have a good enough score, you are free to choose what you want, whether IAS, IPS etc… IAS and IPS get filled out fastest. If you want to become an IAS officer, you will need a great score!
Posted by
SuMiTKumAr
at
6:11 PM
No comments:
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share to Pinterest
Tuesday, July 5, 2011
Indian National Movement
Indian National Movement • Government of India Act 1858 • Indian National Congress (1885) • Partition of Bengal (1905) • Muslim League (1906) • Swadeshi Movement (1905) • Morley-Minto Reforms (1909) • Lucknow Pact (1916) • Home Rule Movement (1915­1916) • The Gandhian Era (1918-1947) • Khilafat Movement (1920) • The Rowlatt Act (1919) • Jallianwalla Bagh Massacre (1919) • Non-Cooperation Movement (1920)
• Chauri Chaura Incident (1922) • Swaraj Party (1922) • Simon Commission (1927) • Dandi March (1930) • Gandhi-Irwin Pact (1931) • The Government of India Act, 1935 • Quit India Movement (1942) • Cabinet Mission Plan (1946) • Interim Government (1946) • Formation of Constituent Assembly (1946) • Mountbatten Plan (1947) • The Indian Independence Act, 1947 • Partition of India (1947) The East India Company had established its control over almost all parts of India by the middle of the 19th century. There were numerous risings in the first hundred years of British rule in India. They were, however, local and isolated in character. Some of them were led by the nobility who were refusing to accept the changing patterns of the time and wanted the past to be restored. But the risings developed a tradition of resistance offoreign rule, culminating in the 1857 revolt. The Revolt of 1857, which was called a Sepoy Mutiny by British historians and their imitators in India but described as "the First War of Indian Independence" by many Indian historians, shook the British authority in India from its very foundations. The Revolt of 1857, an unsuccessful but heroic effort to eliminate foreign rule, had begun. The capture of Delhi and the proclamation of Bahadurshah as the Emperor of Hindustan are a positive meaning to the Revolt and provided a rallying point for the rebels by recalling the past glory of the imperial city. On May 10, 1857, soldiers at Meerut refused to touch the new Enfield rifle cartridges. The soldiers along with other group of civilians, went on a rampage shouting 'Maro Firangi Ko'. They broke open jails, murdered European men and women, burnt their houses and marched to Delhi. The appearance of the marching soldiers next morning in Delhi was a'signal to the local soldiers, who in turn revolted, seized the city and proclaimed the 80-year old Bahadurshah Zafar, as Emperor of India. Within a month of the capture of Delhi, the Revolt spread to the different parts of the country. Kanpur, Lucknow, Benaras,
Allahabad, Bareilly, Jagdishpur and Jhansi. In the absence of any leader from their own ranks, the insurgents turned to the traditional leaders of Indian society. At Kanpur, NanaSaheb, the adopted son of last Peshwa, Baji Rao II, led the forces. Rani Lakshmi Bai in Jhansi, Begum Hazrat Mahal in Lucknow and .Khan Bahadur in Bareilly were in command. However, apart from a commonly shared hatred for alien rule, the rebels had no political perspective or a definite vision of the future. They were all prisoners of their own past, fighting primarily to regain their lost privileges. Unsurprisingly, they proved incapable of ushering in a new political order. Government of India Act 1858 Queen Victoria issued a proclamation on November 1, 1858, placing India under direct government of the Crown, whereby: (a) A viceroy was appointed in India (b) Princes were given the right to adopt a son (abolition of Doctrine of Lapse) (c) Treaties were honoured (d) Religious freedom was restored and equality treatment promised to Indians The Proclamation was called the 'Magna Carta of Indian Liberty'. The British rule in India was strongest between 1858 and 1905. The British also started treating India as its most precious possession and their rule over India seemed set to continue for centuries to come. Because of various subjective and objective factors which came into existence during this era, the feeling of nationalism in Indians started and grow. Indian National Congress (1885) Although the British succeeded in suppressing the 1857 Revolt, they could not stop the growth of political awareness in India. The Indian National Congress was founded in December 1885. It was the visible embodiment of the national awakening in the country. Its founder was an Englishman, Allan Octavian Hume, a retired member of the Indian Civil Service. The Indian leaders, who cooperated with Hume in launching the Congress, were patriots of high character. The first President of the Congress was W.C. Bannerjee. The aims of the Congress were: promotion of friendship and cooperation amongst the nationalist political workers from the different parts of the country; the eradication of racial, creed or provincial prejudices and promotion of national unity; formulation of popular demands and their presentation before the Government; and, most important of all, the training and organisation of public opinion in the country. Partition of Bengal (1905) On December 30, 1898, Lord Curzon took over as the new Viceroy of India. The partition of Bengal came into effect on October 16, 1905, through a Royal Proclamation, reducing the old province of Bengal in size by creating a new province of East Bengal, which later on became East Pakistan and present day Bangladesh. The government explained that it was done to stimu­late growth of underdeveloped eastern region of the Bengal. But, actually, the main objective was to 'Divide and Rule' the most advanced region of the country at that time. Muslim League (1906) In 1906, All India Muslim League was set up under the leader­ship of Aga Khan, Nawab Salimul­lab of Dacca and Nawab Mohsin-ul-Mulk. The League supported the partition of Bengal, opposed the Swadeshi Movement, and demanded special safegurds for its community and a separate elec­torates of Muslims. This led to communal differences between Hindus and Muslims. Swadeshi Movement (1905) The Swadeshi movement has its genesis in the anti-partition move­ment which was started to oppose the British decision to divide Bengal. With the start of the Swadeshi movement at the turn of the century, the Indian National Movement took a major leap forward. The Indian National Congress took up the Swadeshi call in Benaras Session, 1905, presided over by G.K. Gokhale, supported the Swadeshi and Boycott Movement of Bengal, Militant Nationalism spearheaded by Bal Gangadhar Tilak, Bipin Chandra Pal, Lala Lajpat Rai, and Aurobindo Ghosh was, however, in favour of extending the movement of the rest of India and carrying it beyond the programme of just Swadeshi and boycott of goods to full-fledged political mass struggle. Morley-Minto Reforms (1909) Morley-Minto Reforms were introduced in 1909 during the period when Lord Minto was the Governor­General of India. The reforms envisaged a separate electorate for Muslims besides other constitutional measures. The government thereby sought to create a rift within the Congress on the one hand by winning the support of the moderates, and on the other, to win favour of Muslims against Bindus. To achieve the latter objective, the reforms introduced the system of separate electorates under which Muslims could only vote for Muslim candidates. This was done to encourage the notion that the political, economic and cultural interests of Hindus and Muslims were separate and not common. Indian political leaders were however dissatisfied by these reforms. Lucknow Pact (1916) An important step forward in achieving Hindu-Muslim unity was the Lucknow Pact 1916. Anti­British feelings were generated among the Muslims following a war between Britain and Turkey which opened way for Congress and Mus­lim League unity. Both the Con­gress and the Muslim League held sessions at Lucknow in 1916 and concluded the famous Lucknow Pact. The Congress accepted the separate electorates, and both organizations jointly demanded dominion status for the country. Hindu-Muslim unity weakened the British attitude and forced the government to announce its future policy. In 1916 a British policy was announced whereby association of Indians was increased and there was to be a gradual development of local self-governing institutions. Home Rule Movement (1915­1916) Dr. Annie Besant, inspired by the Irish rebellion, started a Home Rule Movement in India in September 1916. The movement spread rapidly and branches of the Rome Rule League were established all over India. Bal Gangadhar Tilak wholeheartedly supported this movement. Rejoined forces with Dr. Besant and persuaded the Muslim League to support this programme. The Gandhian Era (1918-1947) Mahatma Gandhi dominated the Indian political scene from 1918­1947. This period of the Indian National Congress is also referred to as the Gandhian Era. It was the most intense and eventful phase of India's freedom struggle. Mahatma Gandhi provided the leadership of the highest order and his philosophy of non-violent Satyagraha became the most potent weapon to drive out .the British from the Indian soil. Khilafat Movement (1920) The Caliph, Sultan of Turkey, was looked upon by the Muslims as their religious head. During the First World War, when the safety and the welfare of Turkey were threatened by the British thereby weakening the Caliph's position, Indian Muslims adopted an aggressive anti-British attitude. The two brothers, Mohammed Ah and Shaukat Ali launched an anti­British movement in 1920-the Khilafat Movement for the restoration. The Rowlatt Act (1919) While trying to appease Indians, the British Government was following a policy of repression. Throughout the First World War, repression of freedom fighters had continued. The revolutionaries had been hunted down, hanged or im­prisoned. The Government now decided to arm itself with more powers in order to suppress the freedom fighters. In March 1919, it passed the Rowlatt Act. This Act authorised the government to detain any person without trial. The Rowlatt Act came like a sudden blow. The Indians had been promised extension of democracy during the war. They felt humiliated and were filled with anger when they found that their civil liberties were going to be curtailed still further. Unrest gripped the country and a powerful agitation against the Act started. During this agitation, Gandhiji took command of the nationalist movement. March and April 1919 witnessed a remarkable political awakening in the country. There were hartals, strikes and demonstrations at various places. The slogans of Hindu-Muslim unity filled the air. Jallianwalla Bagh Massacre (1919) The Government was bent on suppressing the mass agitation. In Bombay; Ahmedabad, Calcutta, Delhi and at other places demonstrators were lathi-charged and fired upon. Gandhiji gave a call for a general hartal on April 6, 1919. The call was responded to with great enthusiasm. The Government decided to resort to repression to suppress the agitation. At this time the British Government committed one of the worst political crimes in modem history. An unarmed but a large crowd had gathered in Jallianwalla Bagh, Amritsar (Punjab) on April, 13, 1919 for a meeting. General Dyer ordered his troops to open fire on them without warning. This massacre of unarmed people (hundreds died and thousands were wounded) in an enclosed place from which there was no exit, was fol­lowed by a reign of terror in several districts under martial law. Non-Cooperation Movement (1920) With the Congress support of the Khilafat movement, Hindu-Muslim unity was achieved which encouraged Gandhiji to launch his non-violent, non-cooperation movement. At the Calcutta Session in September 1920, the Congress resolved in favour of the non-violent, non-cooperation movement and defined Swaraj as its ultimate aim. The movement envisaged: (i) Surrender of titles and honorary officers; (ii) Resignation from nominated offices and posts in the local bodies; (iii) Refusal to attend government darbars and official functions and boycott of British courts by the lawyers; (iv) Refusal of general public to offer themselves for military and other government jobs, and boycott of foreign goods, etc. The non-cooperation movement also saw picketing of shops selling foreign cloth and boycott of the foreign cloth by the followers of Gandhiji. Chauri Chaura Incident (1922) The Congress session held at Ahmedabad in December 1921 decided to launch a Civil Disobedience Movement while reiterating its stand on the non-violent, non­cooperation movement of which Gandhiji was appointed the leader. Before Gandhiji could launch the Civil Disobedience Movement, a mob of countrymen at Chauri Chaura, a place near Gorakhpur in D.P., clashed with the police which opened fire. In retaliation the mob burnt the police-station and killed 22 policemen. This compelled Gandhiji to call off the Civil Disobedience Movement on February 12, 1922. Despite this Gandhiji was arrested and sentenced to six years imprisonment. The Chauri Chaura incident convinced Gandhiji that the nation was not yet ready for the mass-dis6bedience and he prevailed upon Congress Working Committee in Bardoli on February 12, 1922 to call off the Non-Cooperation Movement. Swaraj Party (1922) Gandhiji's decision to call off the agitation caused frustration among masses. His decision came in for severe criticism from his colleagues like Motilal Nehru, C.R. Das and N.C. Kelkar, who organized the Swaraj Party. The foundations of the 'Swaraj Party' were laid on January 1, 1923, as the 'Congress­Khilafat-Swarajya Patty'. It proposed then an alternative programme of diverting the movement from widespread civil disobedience programme to restrictive one which would encourage its member to enter into legislative councils (established under Montford Reforms of 1919) by contesting elections in order to wreck the legislature from within and to use moral pressure to compel the authority to concede to the popular demand for self-government. Simon Commission (1927) Under the 1919 Act, a statutory commission was to be appointed by the British Government at the end of ten years from the passing of the Act to inquire into the working of the system of government in the country and to recommend further reforms. Thus the commission was scheduled to be appointed in 1929. It was ac­tually appointed two years earlier in 1927. The commission consisted of seven members of the British Parliament. It was headed by Sir John Simon. As all its members were British, the Congress decided to boycott it. The Commission arrived in India in Feb. 1928. It was greeted with black flags and hostile demonstrations everywhere it went. In one such demonstration at Lahore, Lala Lajpat Rai was seriously injured in a wanton police lathi-charge on the demonstrators. Lalaji died soon after from wounds received during the demonstration. Dandi March (1930) Also called the 'Salt Satyagraha'. To achieve the goal of complete independence, Gandhiji launched another civil disobedience movement. Along with 79 followers, Gandhiji started his famous march from Sabarmati Ashram on March 20,1930, for the small village Dandi to break the Salt Law. While Gandhiji was marching to Dandi, Congress leaders and workers had been busy at various levels with the hard organizational tasks of enrolling volunteers and members, forming grassroot Congress Committees, collecting funds, and touring villages and towns to spread nationalist messages. On reaching the seashore on April 6, 1930, he broke the Salt Law by picking up salt from the seashore. By picking a handful of salt, Gandhiji inaugurated the Civil Disobedience Movement, a movement that was to remain unsurpassed in the history of the Indian National Movement for the countrywide mass participation it unleashed. The movement became so powerful that it sparked off partriotism even among the Indian soldiers in the Army. The Garhwal soldiers refused to fire on the people at Peshawar. Gandhi-Irwin Pact (1931) Early in 1931 two moderate statesmen, Sapru and Jayakar, initiated efforts to bring about rapprochement between Gandhiji and the government. Six meetings with Viceroy Lord Irwin finally led to the signing of a pact between the two on March 5, 1931, whereby the Congress called off the movement and agreed to join the Second Round Table Conference. The terms of the agreement included the immediate release of all political prisoners not convicted for violence, the remission of all fines not yet collected, the return of confiscated land not yet sold to third parties, and lenient treatment of all the government officials who had resigned. Gandhiji and other leaders were released from jail as Irwin agreed to release most political prisoners and to return the properties that had been seized by the governments. The government also conceded the right to make the salt for consumption of villages along the coast, and also the right to peaceful and non-aggressive picketing. The Congress on its part, agreed to discontinue the Civil Disobedience Movement and to participate in the next Round Table Conference. The Government of India Act, 1935 The Simon Commission report submitted in 1930 formed the basis for the Government of India Act 1935. The new Government of India Act received the royal assent on August 4, 1935. The Act continued and extended all the existing features of the Indian constitution. Popular representation, which went back to 1892, dyarchy and ministerial responsibility, which dated from 1921, provincial autonomy, whose chequered history went back to eighteenth century presidencies, communal representation, which first received recognition in 1909, and the safeguards devised in 1919, were all continued and in most cases extended. But in addition there were certain new principles intro­duced. It provided for a federal type of government. Thus, the act: (a) Introduced provincial autonomy (b) Abolished dyarchy in provinces I (c) Made ministers responsible to the legislative and federation at the centre The Act of 1935 was condemned by nearly all sections of Indian public opinion and was unanimously rejected by the Congress. The Congress demanded instead, the convening of a Constituent Assembly elected on the basis of adult franchise to frame a constitution for an independent India. Quit India Movement (1942) On August 8, 1942, the Congress in its meeting at Bombay passed a resolution known as 'Quit India' resolution, whereby Gandhiji asked the British to quit India and gave a call for 'Do or die' to his countrymen. On August 9, 1942, Gandhiji was arrested but the other leaders continued the revolutionary struggle. Violence spread throughout the country, several government officers were destroyed and damaged, telegraph wires were cut and communication paralyzed. The movement was, however, crushed by the government. Cabinet Mission Plan (1946) The struggle for freedom entered a decisive phase in the year 1945-46. The British Prime Minister, Lord Attlee, made a declaration on March 15, 1946, that British Cabinet Mission would visit India to make recommendations regarding constitutional reforms to be introduced in India. The Cabinet Mission which constituted of Lord Lawrence, Sir Stafford Cripps and A.V. Alexander visited India and met the representatives of different political parties but a satisfactory solution to the constitutional difficulties could not be found. The Mission envisaged the establishment of a Constituent Assembly to frame the Constitution as well as an interim government. The Muslim League accepted the plan on June 6, 1946, while maintaining its rights of striving for a separate Muslim state. The Congress also partially accepted the plan. Interim Government (1946) On September 2, 1946, an inter­im government was formed. Congress members led by Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru joined it but the Muslim League did not as it withdrew its earlier acceptance of the Cabinet Mission Plan. Formation of Constituent Assembly (1946) The Constituent Assembly met on December 9, 1946, and Dr. Rajendra Prasad was elected its President. The Muslim League did not join the Assembly. Mountbatten Plan (1947) In March 1947, Lord Mountbatten replaced Lord Wavell. He announced his plan on June 3, 1947. It offered a key to the political and constitutional deadlock created by the refusal of the Muslim League to join the Constituent Assembly formed to frame the Constitution of India. Mountbatten's formula was to divide India but retain maximum unity. The country would be partitioned but so would be Punjab and Bengal, so that the limited Pakistan that emerged would meet both the Congress and the League's position to some extent. The League's position on Pakistan was conceded in that it would be created, but the Congress position on unity would be taken into account to make Pakistan as small as possible. He laid down detailed principles for the partition of the country and speedy transfer of political powers in the form of dominion status to the newly formed dominions of India and Pakistan. Its acceptance by the Congress and the Muslim' League resulted in the birth of Pakistan.
The Indian Independence Act, 1947 The Bill containing the provisions of the Mountbatten Plan of June 3, 1947, was introduced in the British Parliament and passed as the Indian Independence Act, 1947. The Act laid down detailed measures for the partition of India and speedy transfer of political powers to the new government of India and Pakistan.
Partition of India (1947) In accordance with the Indian Independence Act, 1947, India was partitioned on August 15, 1947 into India and Pakistan. The Act made India and Pakistan independent dominions. Bloodshed and violence marked the exodus of refugees. The state of Kashmir acceded to the Indian Union, after the raiders were helped by Pakistan, in October 1947. Lord Mountbatten was appointed the Governor-General of free1ndia and M.A. Jinnah the first Governor-General of Pakistan.
Posted by
SuMiTKumAr
at
9:40 AM
No comments:
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share to Pinterest
History of India
This article is about the history of the
Indian subcontinent
prior to the
partition of India
in 1947.
For the modern Republic of India, see
History of the Republic of India . The
history of India
begins with evidence of human activity of
Homo sapiens
as long as 75,000 years ago, or with earlier hominids including
Homo erectus
from about 500,000 years ago. The
Indus Valley Civilization , which spread and flourished in the northwestern part of the
Indian subcontinent
from c. 3300 to 1300 BCE, was the first major civilization in India. A sophisticated and technologically advanced urban culture developed in the
Mature Harappan
period, from 2600 to 1900 BCE. This
Bronze Age
civilization collapsed before the end of the second millennium BCE and was followed by the
Iron Age
Vedic Civilization , which extended over much of the
Indo-Gangetic plain
and which witnessed the rise of major polities known as the
Mahajanapadas . In one of these kingdoms,
Magadha ,
Mahavira
and
Gautama Buddha
were born in the 6th or 5th century BCE and propagated their
śramanic
philosophies.
Almost all of the subcontinent was conquered by the
Maurya Empire
during the 4th and 3rd centuries BCE. It subsequently became fragmented, with various parts ruled by numerous
Middle kingdoms
for the next 1,500 years. This is known as the classical period of Indian history, during which India has sometimes been estimated to have had the
largest economy
of the ancient and medieval world, controlling between one third and one fourth of the world's wealth up to the 18th century.
Much of northern and central India was once again united in the 4th century CE, and remained so for two centuries thereafter, under the
Gupta Empire . This period, witnessing a
Hindu
religious and intellectual resurgence, is known among its admirers as the " Golden Age of India ". During the same time, and for several centuries afterwards, southern India, under the rule of the
Chalukyas ,
Cholas ,
Pallavas , and
Pandyas , experienced its own golden age. During this period, aspects of Indian civilization, administration, culture, and religion ( Hinduism
and
Buddhism ) spread to much of
Asia .
The southern state of
Kerala
had maritime business links with the Roman Empire from around 77 CE. Islam was introduced in Kerala through this route by Muslim traders. Muslim rule in the subcontinent began in 712 CE when the Arab general
Muhammad bin Qasim
conquered
Sindh
and
Multan
in southern
Punjab
in modern day Pakistan, [ 1 ]
setting the stage for several successive invasions from Central Asia between the 10th and 15th centuries CE, leading to the formation of
Muslim empires in the Indian subcontinent
such as the
Delhi Sultanate
and the
Mughal Empire .
Mughal rule came from Central Asia to cover most of the northern parts of the subcontinent. Mughal rulers introduced Central Asian art and architecture to India. In addition to the Mughals and various
Rajput
kingdoms, several independent Hindu states, such as the
Vijayanagara Empire , the
Maratha Empire , and the
Ahom Kingdom , flourished contemporaneously in southern, western, and northeastern India respectively. The Mughal Empire suffered a gradual decline in the early 18th century, which provided opportunities for the
Afghans ,
Balochis ,
Sikhs , and Marathas to exercise control over large areas in the northwest of the subcontinent until the British
East India Company
gained ascendancy over South Asia. [ 2 ]
Beginning in the mid-18th century and over the next century, India was gradually annexed by the British East India Company. Dissatisfaction with Company rule led to the
Indian Rebellion of 1857 , after which India was directly administered by the
British Crown
and witnessed a period of both rapid development of
infrastructure
and economic decline. During the first half of the 20th century, a nationwide
struggle for independence
was launched by the
Indian National Congress
and later joined by the
Muslim League . The subcontinent gained independence from the
United Kingdom
in 1947, after being
partitioned
into the dominions of India and
Pakistan .
Pre-Historic era
Stone Age
Main article:
South Asian Stone Age
Further information:
Mehrgarh ,
Rock Shelters of Bhimbetka , and
Edakkal Caves
Bhimbetka rock painting ,
Madhya Pradesh ,
India .
Stone age
(5000 BC) writings of
Edakkal Caves
in
Kerala , India.
Isolated remains of
Homo erectus
in Hathnora in the
Narmada Valley
in central India indicate that India might have been inhabited since at least the
Middle Pleistocene
era, somewhere between 500,000 and 200,000 years ago. [ 3 ] [ 4 ]
Recent finds in
Tamil Nadu
(at c. 75,000 years ago, before and after the explosion of the
Toba volcano ) indicate the presence of the first anatomically modern humans in the area.
Tools crafted by proto-humans that have been dated back two million years have been discovered in the northwestern part of the subcontinent. [ 5 ] [ 6 ]
The ancient history of the region includes some of South Asia's oldest settlements [ 7 ]
and some of its major civilizations. [ 8 ] [ 9 ]
The earliest archaeological site in the subcontinent is the palaeolithic
hominid
site in the
Soan River valley . [ 10 ]
Soanian sites are found in the
Sivalik region
across what are now India, Pakistan, and Nepal. [ 11 ]
The
Mesolithic
period in the Indian subcontinent was followed by the
Neolithic
period, when more extensive settlement of the subcontinent occurred after the end of the last
Ice Age
approximately 12,000 years ago. The first confirmed semipermanent settlements appeared 9,000 years ago in the
Bhimbetka rock shelters
in modern
Madhya Pradesh , India.
Early Neolithic culture in South Asia is represented by the
Mehrgarh
findings (7000 BCE onwards) in present-day
Balochistan , Pakistan. [ 12 ]
Traces of a Neolithic culture have been alleged to be submerged in the
Gulf of Khambat
in India,
radiocarbon dated
to 7500 BCE. [ 13 ]
However, the one dredged piece of wood in question was found in an area of strong ocean currents. Neolithic agriculture cultures sprang up in the Indus Valley region around 5000 BCE, in the lower Gangetic valley around 3000 BCE, and in later South India, spreading southwards and also northwards into
Malwa
around 1800 BCE. The first urban civilization of the region began with the
Indus Valley Civilization . [ 14 ]
Bronze Age
Main article:
Indus Valley Civilization
See also:
Economic history of India
and
Timeline of the economy of India
The docks of ancient
Lothal
as they appear today.
"Priest King" of
Indus Valley Civilization
The Bronze Age in the
Indian subcontinent
began around 3300 BCE with the early Indus Valley Civilization. It was centered on the
Indus River
and its tributaries which extended into the
Ghaggar-Hakra River
valley, [ 8 ]
the
Ganges-Yamuna Doab , [ 15 ]
Gujarat , [ 16 ]
and southeastern
Afghanistan . [ 17 ]
The civilization is primarily located in modern-day India ( Gujarat ,
Haryana ,
Punjab
and
Rajasthan
provinces) and Pakistan ( Sindh ,
Punjab , and
Balochistan
provinces). Historically part of
Ancient India , it is one of the world's earliest urban civilizations, along with
Mesopotamia
and
Ancient Egypt . [ 18 ]
Inhabitants of the ancient Indus river valley, the
Harappans , developed new techniques in metallurgy and handicraft (carneol products, seal carving), and produced copper, bronze, lead, and tin.
The Mature Indus civilization flourished from about 2600 to 1900 BCE, marking the beginning of the urban civilization on the subcontinent. The civilization included urban centers such as
Dholavira ,
Kalibangan ,
Rupar ,
Rakhigarhi , and
Lothal
in modern-day India, and
Harappa ,
Ganeriwala , and
Mohenjo-daro
in modern-day Pakistan. The civilization is noted for its cities built of brick, roadside drainage system, and multistoried houses.
Early historic period
Vedic period
Main article:
Vedic Civilization
See also:
Vedas
and
Indo-Aryans
Map of
North India
in the late
Vedic period .
The
Vedic period
is characterized by
Indo-Aryan
culture associated with the texts of
Vedas , sacred to Hindus, which were orally composed in
Vedic Sanskrit . The Vedas are some of the oldest extant texts, next to those of Egypt and Mesopotamia. The Vedic period lasted from about 1500 to 500 BCE, laying the foundations of
Hinduism
and other cultural aspects of early Indian society. The Aryas established
Vedic
civilization all over north India, particularly in the Gangetic Plain. This period succeeded the prehistoric Late Harappan, during which
immigrations of Indo-Aryan-speaking tribes
overlaid the existing civilizations of local people whom they called Dasyus.
The
swastika
is a major element of
Hindu iconography .
Early Vedic society consisted of largely pastoral groups, with late Harappan urbanization having been abandoned. [ 19 ]
After the time of the
Rigveda , Aryan society became increasingly agricultural and was socially organized around the four
varnas , or social classes. In addition to the Vedas, the principal texts of Hinduism, the core themes of the Sanskrit epics
Ramayana
and
Mahabharata
are said to have their ultimate origins during this period. [ 20 ]
The early Indo-Aryan presence probably corresponds, in part, to the
Ochre Coloured Pottery culture
in archaeological contexts. [ 21 ]
The
Kuru kingdom [ 22 ]
corresponds to the
Black and Red Ware
and
Painted Grey Ware
cultures and to the beginning of the Iron Age in northwestern India, around 1000 BCE, as well as with the composition of the
Atharvaveda , the first Indian text to mention iron, as
śyāma ayas , literally "black metal." The Painted Grey Ware culture spanned much of northern India from about 1100 to 600 BCE. [ 21 ]
The Vedic Period also established republics such as
Vaishali , which existed as early as the 6th century BCE and persisted in some areas until the 4th century CE. The later part of this period corresponds with an increasing movement away from the previous tribal system towards the establishment of kingdoms, called
mahajanapadas .
Mahajanapadas
Gautama Buddha
undertaking extreme ascetic practices before his enlightenment on the bank of river
Falgu
in
Bodh Gaya , Bihar.
Detail of a leaf with, The Birth of
Mahavira
(the 24th
Jain
Tirthankara ), from the
Kalpa Sutra , c.1375-1400.
The
Mahajanapadas
were the sixteen most powerful kingdoms and republics of the era, located mainly across the fertile
Indo-Gangetic plains , however there were a number of smaller kingdoms stretching the length and breadth of
Ancient India .
Nalanda University
is considered one of the first great
universities
in recorded history. It was the center of
Buddhist
learning and research in the world from 450 to 1193 CE.
Main articles:
Mahajanapadas
and
Magadha Empire
Main articles:
History of Hinduism ,
History of Buddhism , and
History of Jainism
See also:
Adi Shankara ,
Siddhartha Gautama , and
Mahavira
Further information:
Upanishads ,
Indian Religions ,
Indian philosophy , and
Ancient universities of India
In the later Vedic Age, a number of small kingdoms or city states had covered the subcontinent, many mentioned in Vedic, early Buddhist and Jaina literature as far back as 1000 BCE. By 500 BCE, sixteen monarchies and "republics" known as the
Mahajanapadas
—
Kasi ,
Kosala ,
Anga ,
Magadha ,
Vajji
(or Vriji),
Malla ,
Chedi ,
Vatsa
(or Vamsa),
Kuru ,
Panchala ,
Matsya
(or Machcha),
Surasena ,
Assaka ,
Avanti ,
Gandhara , and
Kamboja
— stretched across the
Indo-Gangetic Plain
from modern-day
Afghanistan
to
Bengal
and
Maharastra . This period saw the second major rise of urbanism in India after the
Indus Valley Civilization .
Many smaller clans mentioned within early literature seem to have been present across the rest of the subcontinent. Some of these kings were hereditary; other states elected their rulers. The educated speech at that time was
Sanskrit , while the languages of the general population of northern India are referred to as
Prakrits . Many of the sixteen kingdoms had coalesced to four major ones by 500/400 BCE, by the time of
Siddhartha Gautama . These four were Vatsa, Avanti, Kosala, and Magadha. [ 23 ]
Hindu rituals at that time were complicated and conducted by the priestly class. It is thought that the
Upanishads , late Vedic texts dealing mainly with philosophy, were composed in the later Vedic Age and early in this period of the Mahajanapadas (from about 600 to 400 BCE). The Upanishads had a substantial effect on
Indian philosophy
and were contemporary with the development of Buddhism and Jainism, indicating a golden age of thought in this period.
It is believed that circa 537 BCE, that Siddhartha Gautama attained the state of "enlightenment" and became known as the "Buddha" - the enlightened one. Around the same time,
Mahavira
(the 24th Jain
tirthankar
according to Jains) propagated a similar theology that was to later become Jainism. [ 24 ]
However, Jain orthodoxy believes it predates all known time. The
Vedas
are believed to have documented a few Jain
tirthankars
and an ascetic order similar to the
sramana
movement. [ 25 ]
The Buddha's teachings and Jainism had doctrines inclined toward asceticism, and they were preached in Prakrit, which helped them gain acceptance amongst the masses. They have profoundly influenced practices that Hinduism and Indian spiritual orders are associated with, including
vegetarianism , prohibition of animal slaughter and
ahimsa
(non-violence). While the geographic impact of Jainism was limited to India, Buddhist nuns and monks eventually spread the teachings of Buddha to
Central Asia ,
East Asia ,
Tibet ,
Sri Lanka
and
Southeast Asia .
Persian and Greek conquests
See also:
Achaemenid Empire ,
Greco-Buddhism ,
Alexander the Great ,
Nanda Empire , and
Gangaridai
Asia in 323 BCE, the
Nanda Empire
and
Gangaridai Empire
in relation to
Alexander 's Empire and neighbors.
Much of the northwestern subcontinent (present-day eastern Afghanistan and Pakistan) came under the rule of the Persian
Achaemenid Empire
in c. 520 BCE, during the reign of
Darius the Great , and remained so for two centuries. [ 26 ]
In 326 BCE,
Alexander the Great
conquered Asia Minor and the Achaemenid Empire, reaching the northwest frontiers of the Indian subcontinent. There he defeated
King Porus
in the
Battle of the Hydaspes
(near modern-day
Jhelum , Pakistan) and conquered much of the
Punjab . [ 27 ]
Alexander's march east put him in confrontation with the
Nanda Empire
of
Magadha
and the
Gangaridai Empire
of
Bengal . His army, exhausted and frightened by the prospect of facing larger Indian armies at the Ganges River, mutinied at the Hyphasis (modern
Beas River ) and refused to march further East. Alexander, after the meeting with his officer,
Coenus , was convinced that it was better to return.
The Persian and Greek invasions had important repercussions on Indian civilization. The political systems of the Persians were to influence future forms of governance on the subcontinent, including the administration of the Mauryan dynasty. In addition, the region of Gandhara, or present-day eastern Afghanistan and northwest Pakistan, became a melting pot of Indian, Persian, Central Asian, and Greek cultures and gave rise to a hybrid culture,
Greco-Buddhism , which lasted until the 5th century CE and influenced the artistic development of
Mahayana Buddhism .
Maurya Empire
Main article:
Maurya Empire
Further information:
Chandragupta Maurya ,
Bindusara , and
Ashoka the Great
Maurya Empire
under
Ashoka the Great
Ashokan pillar
at
Vaishali , 3rd century BCE.
The
Maurya Empire
(322–185 BCE), ruled by the Mauryan dynasty, was a geographically extensive and powerful political and military empire in ancient India. The empire was established by
Chandragupta Maurya
in
Magadha
what is now
Bihar
and it further flourished under
Ashoka the Great . At its greatest extent, it stretched to the north to the natural boundaries of the
Himalayas
and to the east into what is now
Assam . To the west, it reached beyond modern
Pakistan , annexing
Balochistan
and much of what is now
Afghanistan , including the modern
Herat
and
Kandahar
provinces. The empire was expanded into India's central and southern regions by the emperors Chandragupta and
Bindusara , but it excluded extensive unexplored tribal and forested regions near
Kalinga
which were subsequently taken by Ashoka. Ashoka propagated
Buddhism
and established many Buddhist monuments.
Chandragupta's minister
Chanakya
wrote the
Arthashastra , one of the greatest treatises on economics, politics, foreign affairs, administration, military arts, war, and religion produced in Asia. Archaeologically, the period of Mauryan rule in South Asia falls into the era of
Northern Black Polished Ware
(NBPW). The
Arthashastra
and the
Edicts of Ashoka
are primary written records of the Mauryan times. The
Lion Capital of Asoka
at
Sarnath , is the national emblem of India.
Early Middle Kingdoms — The Golden Age
Main article:
Middle Kingdoms of India
Ancient India
during the rise of
Sunga Empire
and
Satavahana Empire .
Kharavela Empire
Kushan Empire
and
Western Satraps
of
Ancient India
in the north along with
Pandyans
and
Early Cholas
in
southern India .
Gupta Empire
The middle period was a time of notable cultural development. The
Satavahana dynasty , also known as the Andhras, ruled in southern and central India after around 230 BCE.
Satakarni , the sixth ruler of the Satvahana dynasty, defeated the
Sunga Empire
of north India. Afterwards,
Kharavela , the warrior king of
Kalinga , [ 28 ]
ruled a vast empire and was responsible for the propagation of
Jainism
in the Indian subcontinent. [ 28 ]
The Kharavelan Jain empire included a formidable maritime empire with trading routes linking it to
Sri Lanka ,
Burma ,
Thailand ,
Vietnam ,
Cambodia ,
Borneo ,
Bali ,
Sumatra , and
Java . Colonists from Kalinga settled in Sri Lanka, Burma, as well as the
Maldives
and the
Malay Archipelago . The
Kuninda Kingdom
was a small Himalayan state that survived from around the 2nd century BCE to roughly the 3rd century CE. The
Kushanas
migrated from
Central Asia
into northwestern India in the middle of the 1st century CE and founded an empire that eventually stretched from
Tajikistan
to the middle
Ganges . The
Western Satraps
(35-405 CE) were
Saka
rulers of the western and central part of India. They were the successors of the
Indo-Scythians
and contemporaries of the Kushans who ruled the northern part of the Indian subcontinent and the Satavahana (Andhra) who ruled in central and southern India.
Different dynasties such as the
Pandyans ,
Cholas ,
Cheras ,
Kadambas ,
Western Gangas ,
Pallavas , and
Chalukyas , dominated the southern part of the Indian peninsula at different periods of time. Several southern kingdoms formed overseas empires that stretched into Southeast Asia. The kingdoms warred with each other and the
Deccan
states for domination of the south. The
Kalabras , a Buddhist dynasty, briefly interrupted the usual domination of the Cholas, Cheras, and Pandyas in the south.
Northwestern hybrid cultures
The founder of the
Indo-Greek Kingdom ,
Demetrius I "the Invincible"
(205–171 BCE).
See also:
Indo-Greek kingdom ,
Indo-Scythians ,
Indo-Parthian Kingdom , and
Indo-Sassanids
The northwestern hybrid cultures of the subcontinent included the
Indo-Greeks , the
Indo-Scythians , the
Indo-Parthians , and the
Indo-Sassinids . The first of these, the
Indo-Greek kingdom Kingdom , was founded when the
Greco-Bactrian
king
Demetrius
invaded the region in 180 BCE, extending his rule over various parts of present-day Afghanistan and Pakistan. Lasting for almost two centuries, the kingdom was ruled by a succession of more than 30 Greek kings, who were often in conflict with each other. The
Indo-Scythians
were a branch of the Indo-European
Sakas
( Scythians ) who migrated from southern
Siberia , first into
Bactria , subsequently into
Sogdiana ,
Kashmir ,
Arachosia , and
Gandhara , and finally into India. Their kingdom lasted from the middle of the 2nd century BCE to the 1st century BCE. Yet another kingdom, the
Indo-Parthians
(also known as
the Pahlavas ), came to control most of present-day Afghanistan and northern Pakistan, after fighting many local rulers such as the
Kushan
ruler
Kujula Kadphises , in the Gandhara region. The
Sassanid
empire of Persia, who was contemporaneous with the Gupta Empire, expanded into the region of present-day Balochistan in Pakistan, where the mingling of Indian culture and the
culture of Iran
gave birth to a hybrid culture under the
Indo-Sassanids .
Kushan Empire
Main article:
Kushan Empire
The
Kushan Empire
expanded out of what is now Afghanistan into the northwest of the subcontinent under the leadership of their first emperor,
Kujula Kadphises , about the middle of the 1st century CE. By the time of his grandson,
Kanishka , (whose era is thought to have begun c. 127 CE), they had conquered most of northern India, at least as far as
Saketa
and
Pataliputra , in the middle Ganges Valley, and probably as far as the
Bay of Bengal . [ 29 ]
They played an important role in the establishment of Buddhism in India and its spread to Central Asia and China. By the 3rd century, their empire in India was disintegrating; their last known great emperor being
Vasudeva I
(c. 190-225 CE).
Roman trade with India
Main article:
Roman trade with India
Coin of the Roman emperor
Augustus
found at the
Pudukottai ,
South India .
Roman trade with India started around 1 CE, during the reign of
Augustus
and following
his conquest
of
Egypt , which had been India's biggest trade partner in the West.
The trade started by
Eudoxus of Cyzicus
in 130 BCE kept increasing, and according to
Strabo
(II.5.12. [ 30 ] ), by the time of Augustus, up to 120 ships set sail every year from
Myos Hormos
on the
Red Sea
to India. So much gold was used for this trade, and apparently recycled by the
Kushans
for their own coinage, that
Pliny the Elder
(NH VI.101) complained about the drain of specie to India:
"India, China and the Arabian peninsula take one hundred million
sesterces
from our empire per annum at a conservative estimate: that is what our luxuries and women cost us. For what percentage of these imports is intended for sacrifices to the gods or the spirits of the dead?"
—Pliny, Historia Naturae 12.41.84. [ 31 ]
The maritime (but not the overland) trade routes, harbours, and trade items are described in detail in the 1st century CE
Periplus of the Erythraean Sea .
Gupta rule
Main article:
Gupta Empire
See also:
Chandra Gupta I ,
Samudragupta ,
Chandra Gupta II ,
Kumaragupta I , and
Skandagupta
Further information:
Kalidasa ,
Aryabhata ,
Varahamihira ,
Vishnu Sharma , and
Vatsyayana
Further information:
Meghadūta ,
Abhijñānaśākuntala ,
Kumārasambhava ,
Panchatantra ,
Aryabhatiya ,
Indian numerals , and
Kama Sutra
Kalidasa 's
Sanskrit play
Abhijñānaśākuntala
is one of the
Legacy of the Gupta Empire .
The
Classical Age
refers to the period when much of the
Indian subcontinent
was reunited under the
Gupta Empire
(c. 320–550 CE). [ 32 ] [ 33 ]
This period has been called the
Golden Age of India [ 34 ]
and was marked by extensive achievements in
science, technology ,
engineering ,
art ,
dialectic ,
literature ,
logic ,
mathematics ,
astronomy ,
religion , and
philosophy
that crystallized the elements of what is generally known as
Hindu culture . [ 35 ]
The
decimal numeral system , including the concept of
zero , was invented in India during this period. [ 36 ]
The peace and prosperity created under leadership of Guptas enabled the pursuit of scientific and artistic endeavors in India. [ 37 ]
The high points of this cultural creativity are magnificent architecture, sculpture, and painting. [ 38 ]
The Gupta period produced scholars such as
Kalidasa ,
Aryabhata ,
Varahamihira ,
Vishnu Sharma , and
Vatsyayana
who made great advancements in many academic fields. [ 39 ]
Science and political administration reached new heights during the Gupta era. Strong trade ties also made the region an important cultural center and established it as a base that would influence nearby kingdoms and regions in
Burma ,
Sri Lanka , the
Malay Archipelago , and
Indochina .
The Gupta period marked a watershed of Indian culture: the Guptas performed Vedic sacrifices to legitimize their rule, but they also patronized
Buddhism , which continued to provide an alternative to Brahmanical orthodoxy. The military exploits of the first three rulers— Chandragupta I
(c. 319–335),
Samudragupta
(c. 335–376), and
Chandragupta II
(c. 376–415) —brought much of India under their leadership. [ 40 ]
They successfully resisted the northwestern kingdoms until the arrival of the
Hunas , who established themselves in Afghanistan by the first half of the 5th century, with their capital at
Bamiyan . [ 41 ]
However, much of the
Deccan
and southern India were largely unaffected by these events in the north. [ 42 ] [ 43 ]
Late Middle Kingdoms — The Classical Age
Main articles:
Middle Kingdoms of India
,
Badami Chalukyas
,
Rashtrakuta
,
Western Chalukyas
, and
Vijayanagara Empire
Pala Empire
under
Dharmapala
Pala Empire
under
Devapala
Chola Empire
under
Rajendra Chola
c. 1030 C.E.
Badami Chalukya Empire
The
Kanauj
Triangle
was the focal point of
empires
- the
Rashtrakutas
of
Deccan , the
Gurjara Pratiharas
of
Malwa , and the
Palas
of
Bengal .
The "Classical Age" in India began with the
Gupta Empire
and the resurgence of the north during
Harsha 's conquests around the 7th century CE, and ended with the fall of the
Vijayanagara Empire
in the south in the 13th century, due to pressure from the invaders to the north. This period produced some of India's finest art, considered the epitome of classical development, and the development of the main spiritual and philosophical systems which continued to be in Hinduism, Buddhism and Jainism. King Harsha of
Kannauj
succeeded in reuniting northern India during his reign in the 7th century, after the collapse of the Gupta dynasty. His kingdom collapsed after his death.
From the 7th to the 9th century, three dynasties contested for control of northern India: the
Gurjara Pratiharas
of
Malwa , the
Palas
of
Bengal , and the
Rashtrakutas
of the
Deccan . The
Sena dynasty
would later assume control of the Pala Empire, and the Gurjara Pratiharas fragmented into various states. These were the first of the
Rajput
states, a series of kingdoms which managed to survive in some form for almost a millennium, until Indian independence from the British. The first recorded Rajput kingdoms emerged in
Rajasthan
in the 6th century, and small Rajput dynasties later ruled much of northern India. One
Gurjar [ 44 ] [ 45 ]
Rajput of the
Chauhan
clan,
Prithvi Raj Chauhan , was known for bloody conflicts against the advancing Islamic sultanates. The
Shahi
dynasty ruled portions of eastern Afghanistan, northern Pakistan, and Kashmir from the mid-7th century to the early 11th century.
The
Chalukya dynasty
ruled parts of southern and central India from
Badami
in
Karnataka
between 550 and 750, and then again from
Kalyani
between 970 and 1190. The
Pallavas
of
Kanchipuram
were their contemporaries further to the south. With the decline of the Chalukya empire, their feudatories, the
Hoysalas
of
Halebidu ,
Kakatiyas
of
Warangal ,
Seuna Yadavas of Devagiri , and a southern branch of the
Kalachuri , divided the vast Chalukya empire amongst themselves around the middle of 12th century.
The
Chola Empire
at its peak covered much of the
Indian subcontinent
and
Southeast Asia .
Rajaraja Chola I
conquered all of peninsular south India and parts of
Sri Lanka .
Rajendra Chola I 's navies went even further, occupying coasts from Burma (now
Myanmar ) to
Vietnam , [ 46 ]
the
Andaman and Nicobar Islands , the
Lakshadweep
(Laccadive) islands,
Sumatra , and the
Malay Peninsula
in Southeast Asia and the Pegu islands. Later during the middle period, the
Pandyan Empire
emerged in
Tamil Nadu , as well as the
Chera Empire
in
Kerala . By 1343, all these dynasties had ceased to exist, giving rise to the
Vijayanagar empire .
The ports of south India were engaged in the
Indian Ocean
trade, chiefly involving spices, with the
Roman Empire
to the west and Southeast Asia to the east. [ 47 ] [ 48 ]
Literature in local vernaculars and spectacular architecture flourished until about the beginning of the 14th century, when southern expeditions of the sultan of Delhi took their toll on these kingdoms. The Hindu Vijayanagar dynasty came into conflict with the Islamic
Bahmani Sultanate , and the clashing of the two systems caused a mingling of the indigenous and foreign cultures that left lasting cultural influences on each other. The Vijaynagar Empire eventually declined due to pressure from the first Delhi sultanates that had managed to establish themselves in the north around the city of Delhi by that time.
The Islamic Sultanates
Main article:
Islamic Empires in India
See also:
Bahmani Sultanate
and
Deccan Sultanates
Gol Gumbaz
at
Bijapur , has the second largest pre-modern dome in the world after the Byzantine
Hagia Sophia .
After conquering Persia, Arab
Islamic Caliphate
incorporated parts of what is now Pakistan around 720 CE. The Muslim rulers were keen to invade India, [ 49 ]
which was a rich region, [ 50 ]
with a flourishing international trade and the only known diamond mines in the world. In 712 CE an Arab Muslim general called
Muhammad bin Qasim
conquered most of the Indus region in modern day Pakistan, for the
Umayyad
empire, to be made the "As-Sindh" province with its capital at Al-Mansurah, 72 km (45 mi) north of modern
Hyderabad
in
Sindh ,
Pakistan . After several wars including the
Battle of Rajasthan , where the
Hindu
Rajput
clans defeated the
Umayyad
Arabs, their expansion was checked and contained to Sindh in Pakistan [ citation needed ] , many short-lived Islamic kingdoms ( sultanates ) under foreign rulers were established across the north western subcontinent over a period of a few centuries. Additionally, Muslim trading communities had flourished throughout coastal south India, particularly in
Kerala , where Muslim traders arrived in small numbers, mainly from the Arabian peninsula. This had marked the introduction of a third
Abrahamic
Middle Eastern religion, following Judaism and Christianity, often in puritanical form. Later, the
Bahmani Sultanate
and
Deccan sultanates
founded by Turkic rulers, flourished in the south.
Delhi Sultanate
Qutub Minar
is the world's tallest brick
minaret , commenced by
Qutb-ud-din Aybak
of the
Slave dynasty .
Main article:
Delhi Sultanate
In the 12th and 13th centuries,
Turks
and
Afghans
invaded parts of northern India and established the
Delhi Sultanate
in the former
Rajput
holdings. [ 51 ]
The subsequent
Slave dynasty
of
Delhi
managed to conquer large areas of northern India, approximately equal in extent to the ancient
Gupta Empire , while the
Khilji dynasty
was also able to conquer most of central India, but were ultimately unsuccessful in conquering and uniting the subcontinent. The Sultanate ushered in a period of Indian cultural renaissance. The resulting "Indo-Muslim" fusion of cultures left lasting syncretic monuments in architecture, music, literature, religion, and clothing. It is surmised that the language of
Urdu
(literally meaning "horde" or "camp" in various Turkic dialects) was born during the Delhi Sultanate period as a result of the intermingling of the local speakers of Sanskritic
Prakrits
with immigrants speaking
Persian ,
Turkic , and
Arabic
under the Muslim rulers. The Delhi Sultanate is the only Indo-Islamic empire to have enthroned one of the few female rulers in India,
Razia Sultana
(1236–1240).
A
Turco-Mongol
conqueror in Central Asia,
Timur
(Tamerlane), attacked the reigning Sultan Nasir-u Din Mehmud of the
Tughlaq
Dynasty in the north Indian city of
Delhi . [ 52 ]
The Sultan's army was defeated on December 17, 1398. Timur entered Delhi and the city was sacked, destroyed, and left in ruins, after Timur's army had killed and plundered for three days and nights. He ordered the whole city to be sacked except for the
sayyids , scholars, and the other Muslims,; 100,000 war prisoners, mostly Hindus, were put to death in one day. [ 53 ]
The Mughal era
Extent of the
Mughal Empire
in 1700.
Taj Mahal , built by the Mughals
Main article:
Mughal Empire
In 1526,
Babur , a
Timurid
descendant of
Timur
and
Genghis Khan
from
Fergana Valley (modern day
Uzbekistan ), swept across the
Khyber Pass
and established the
Mughal Empire , covering modern day
Afghanistan ,
Pakistan ,
India
and
Bangladesh . [ 54 ]
However, his son
Humayun
was defeated by the Afghan warrior
Sher Shah Suri
in the year 1540, and Humayun was forced to retreat to
Kabul . After Sher Shah's death, his son
Islam Shah Suri
and the Hindu king
Samrat Hem Chandra Vikramaditya , who had won 22 battles from
Punjab
to
Bengal
and had established a secular Hindu Raj, ruled North India from
Delhi
till 1556, when
Akbar 's forces defeated and killed Hemu in the
Second Battle of Panipat
on 6 November 1556.
The Mughal dynasty ruled most of the Indian subcontinent by 1600; it went into a slow decline after 1707 and was finally defeated during the
Indian Rebellion of 1857 , also called the 1857 War of Independence. This period marked vast social change in the subcontinent as the Hindu majority were ruled over by the Mughal emperors, most of whom showed religious tolerance, liberally patronising Hindu culture. The famous emperor Akbar, who was the grandson of Babar, tried to establish a good relationship with the Hindus. However, later emperors such as
Aurangazeb
tried to establish complete Muslim dominance, and as a result several historical temples were destroyed during this period and taxes imposed on non-Muslims. During the decline of the Mughal Empire, several smaller states rose to fill the power vacuum and themselves were contributing factors to the decline. In 1739,
Nader Shah , emperor of Iran, defeated the Mughal army at the huge
Battle of Karnal . After this victory, Nader captured and sacked Delhi, carrying away many treasures, including the
Peacock Throne . [ 55 ]
The Mughals were perhaps the richest single dynasty to have ever existed. During the Mughal era, the dominant political forces consisted of the Mughal Empire and its tributaries and, later on, the rising successor states - including the
Maratha confederacy
- which fought an increasingly weak Mughal dynasty. The Mughals, while often employing brutal tactics to subjugate their empire, had a policy of integration with Indian culture, which is what made them successful where the short-lived Sultanates of Delhi had failed. Akbar the Great was particularly famed for this. Akbar declared "Amari" or non-killing of animals in the holy days of Jainism. He rolled back the
jizya
tax for non-Muslims. The Mughal emperors married local royalty, allied themselves with local
maharajas , and attempted to fuse their Turko-Persian culture with ancient Indian styles, creating a unique
Indo-Saracenic architecture . It was the erosion of this tradition coupled with increased brutality and centralization that played a large part in the dynasty's downfall after
Aurangzeb , who unlike previous emperors, imposed relatively non-pluralistic policies on the general population, which often inflamed the majority Hindu population.
Post-Mughal period
Main articles:
Maratha Empire ,
Kingdom of Mysore ,
Hyderabad State ,
Sikh Empire ,
Rajputs , and
Durrani Empire
See also:
History of Sikhism
Further information:
Shivaji ,
Tippu Sultan ,
Nizam ,
Oudh ,
Ranjit Singh , and
Ahmad Shah Abdali
The
Maratha Empire
in 1760. The last
Hindu
empire of
India .
Harmandir Sahib
or
The Golden Temple
is culturally the most significant place of worship for the
Sikhs .
The post-Mughal era was dominated by the rise of the Maratha suzerainty as other small regional states (mostly late Mughal tributary states) emerged, and also by the increasing activities of European powers (see colonial era below). The Maratha kingdom or confederacy was founded and consolidated by
Shivaji . By the 18th century, it had transformed itself into the
Maratha Empire
under the rule of the
peshwas
(prime ministers). By 1760, the domain of the Marathas stretched across practically the entire subcontinent. This expansion was brought to an end by the defeat of the Marathas by an Afghan army led by
Ahmad Shah Durrani
at the
Third Battle of Panipat
(1761). The last
peshwa ,
Baji Rao II , was defeated by the
British
in the
Third Anglo-Maratha War .
The Kingdom of Mysore in southern India was founded around 1400 CE by the
Wodeyar dynasty . The rule of the Wodeyars was interrupted by
Hyder Ali
and his son
Tipu Sultan . Under their rule, Mysore fought a
series of wars
sometimes against the combined forces of the British and Marathas, but mostly against the British, with Mysore receiving some aid or promise of aid from the
French .
Hyderabad was founded by the
Qutb Shahi dynasty
of
Golconda
in 1591. Following a brief Mughal rule, Asif Jah, a Mughal official, seized control of Hyderabad and declared himself
Nizam-al-Mulk of Hyderabad
in 1724. It was ruled by a hereditary Nizam from 1724 until 1948. Both Mysore and Hyderabad became princely states in British India.
The Punjabi kingdom, ruled by members of the
Sikh religion , was a political entity that governed the region of modern-day
Punjab . This was among the last areas of the subcontinent to be conquered by the British. The
first
and
second Anglo-Sikh war
marked the downfall of the
Sikh Empire .
Around the 18th century, the modern state of
Nepal
was formed by
Gurkha
rulers.
Colonial era
Main article:
Colonial India
In 1498,
Vasco da Gama
successfully discovered a new sea route from Europe to India, which paved the way for direct Indo-European commerce. [ 56 ]
The
Portuguese
soon set up trading posts in
Goa ,
Daman ,
Diu
and
Bombay . The next to arrive were the
Dutch , the
British —who set up a trading post in the west coast port of
Surat [ 57 ]
in 1619—and the
French . The internal conflicts among Indian kingdoms gave opportunities to the European traders to gradually establish political influence and appropriate lands. Although these continental European powers controlled various coastal regions of southern and eastern India during the ensuing century, they eventually lost all their territories in India to the British islanders, with the exception of the French outposts of
Pondicherry
and
Chandernagore , the Dutch port of
Travancore , and the Portuguese colonies of Goa, Daman, and Diu.
Company rule in India
Main articles:
East India Company
and
Company rule in India
Map of India in 1857 at the end of Company rule.
In 1617 the
British East India Company
was given permission by Mughal Emperor Jahangir to trade in India. [ 58 ]
Gradually their increasing influence led the
de-jure
Mughal emperor
Farrukh Siyar
to grant them
dastaks
or permits for duty free trade in
Bengal
in 1717. [ 59 ]
The
Nawab of Bengal
Siraj Ud Daulah , the
de facto
ruler of the Bengal province, opposed British attempts to use these permits. This led to the
Battle of Plassey
in 1757, in which the 'army' of East India Company, led by
Robert Clive , defeated the Nawab's forces. This was the first political foothold with territorial implications that the British acquired in India. Clive was appointed by the company as its first 'Governor of Bengal' in 1757. [ 60 ]
This was combined with British victories over the French at
Madras ,
Wandiwash
and
Pondicherry
that, along with wider
British successes during the Seven Years War , reduced French influence in India. After the
Battle of Buxar
in 1764, the company acquired the civil rights of administration in Bengal from Mughal Emperor
Shah Alam II ; it marked the beginning of its formal rule, which engulfed most of India and extinguished the Moghul rule and dynasty within the next century. [ 61 ]
The East India Company monopolized the trade of Bengal. They introduced a land taxation system called the
Permanent Settlement
which introduced a
feudal -like structure in Bengal, often with
zamindars
set in place. By the 1850s, the East India Company controlled most of the Indian sub-continent, which included present-day Pakistan and Bangladesh. Their policy was sometimes summed up as
Divide and Rule , taking advantage of the enmity festering between various princely states and social and religious groups.
British Raj
Main articles:
British Raj
and
Indian rebellion of 1857
The British Indian Empire at its greatest extent (in a map of 1909)
The first major movement against the British Company's high handed rule resulted in the
Indian Rebellion of 1857 . After a year of turmoil and reinforcement of the East India Company's troops with British soldiers, the company overcame the rebellion. The nominal leader of the uprising, the last Mughal Emperor
Bahadur Shah Zafar
was exiled to Burma, his children were beheaded, and the Moghul line was abolished. In the aftermath all power was transferred from the East India Company to the
British Crown , which began to administer most of India as a colony; the company's lands were controlled directly and the rest through the rulers of what it called the
Princely states . There were 565 princely states when the Indian subcontinent gained independence from Britain in August 1947. [ 62 ]
During the British Raj,
famines in India , often attributed to failed government policies, were some of the worst ever recorded, including the
Great Famine of 1876–78
in which 6.1 million to 10.3 million people died [ 63 ]
and the
Indian famine of 1899–1900
in which 1.25 to 10 million people died. [ 63 ]
The
Third Plague Pandemic
started in China in the middle of the 19th century, spreading plague to all inhabited continents and killing 10 million people in India alone. [ 64 ]
Despite persistent diseases and famines, the population of the
Indian subcontinent , which stood at about 125 million in 1750, had reached 389 million by 1941. [ 65 ]
The Indian Independence movement
Main articles:
Indian independence movement
and
Pakistan Movement
See also:
Mahatma Gandhi
and
Freedom fighters of India
Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi
and
Muhammad Ali Jinnah , Bombay, 1944.
The physical presence of the British in India was not significant. Yet the British were able to rule two-thirds of the subcontinent directly and exercise considerable leverage over the princely states that accounted for the remaining one-third. The British employed " Divide and Rule " in British India as a means of preventing an uprising against the Raj. [ 66 ]
In this environment of Hindu-Muslim disunity, the first step toward Indian independence and western-style democracy was taken with the appointment of Indian councilors to advise the British
viceroy , [ 67 ]
and with the establishment of provincial Councils with Indian members, the councilors' participation was subsequently widened in legislative councils. [ 68 ]
From 1920 leaders such as
Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi
began highly popular mass movements to campaign against the British Raj using largely peaceful methods. Some others adopted a militant approach that sought to overthrow British rule by armed struggle;
revolutionary activities
against the British rule took place throughout the Indian sub-continent. The Gandhi led independence movement opposed the British rule using non-violent methods like
non-cooperation ,
civil disobedience
and
economic resistance . These movements succeeded in bringing independence to the Indian sub-continent in 1947.
Independence and Partition
Main articles:
Partition of India ,
History of the Republic of India ,
History of Pakistan , and
History of Bangladesh
Along with the desire for independence, tensions between Hindus and Muslims had also been developing over the years. The Muslims had always been a minority, and the prospect of an exclusively Hindu government made them wary of independence; they were as inclined to mistrust Hindu rule as they were to resist the foreign Raj, although
Gandhi
called for unity between the two groups in an astonishing display of leadership. The British, extremely weakened by the
World War II , promised that they would leave and participated in the formation of an
interim government . The
British Indian
territories gained independence in 1947, after being
partitioned
into the
Union of India
and
Dominion of Pakistan . Following the controversial division of pre-partition
Punjab
and
Bengal , rioting broke out between Sikhs, Hindus and Muslims in these provinces and spread to several other parts of India, leaving some 500,000 dead. [ 69 ]
Also, this period saw one of the largest mass migrations ever recorded in modern history, with a total of 12 million Hindus, Sikhs and Muslims moving between the newly created nations of
India
and
Pakistan
(which gained independence on 15 and 14 August 1947 respectively). [ 69 ]
In 1971,
Bangladesh , formerly
East Pakistan
and
East Bengal , seceded from Pakistan. The histories of each of these modern nations can be found on the respective pages shown above.
Posted by
SuMiTKumAr
at
8:37 AM
No comments:
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share to Pinterest
Home
Subscribe to:
Posts (Atom)
Followers
Blog Archive
▼
2011
(3)
▼
July
(3)
HOW TO BECOME IAS and IPS
Indian National Movement
History of India
About Me
SuMiTKumAr
View my complete profile
Picture Window template. Powered by
Blogger .