India Info: India in 1100 BC: Atharva Veda & Iranian Avesta
skip to main
|
skip to sidebar
India Info
Anything and everything that you can think of India!!
Wednesday, April 6, 2011
India in 1100 BC: Atharva Veda & Iranian Avesta
India 1300 BC
<<
>>
India 1000 BC Vedic India in Iron Age Later Vedas Like the
Rig Veda , the only sources for the post Rig Vedic history of India are the later three
Vedas
-
Yajur ,
Sama
& Atharva Veda . There is no concrete proof of the timelines of these three Vedas. Commonly accepted chronology is that Yajur Veda and Sama Veda, composed perhaps between 1400 BC and 1100 BC, are older than Atharva Veda which was composed perhaps between 1100 and 900 BC. The present forms of all the four Vedas didn't take place for sure within these time frames. It had taken several more centuries before they would have arrived to the present forms. Yajur Veda has reference to fully developed caste systems, considerable advances in art, handicrafts, trade and occupation, which are evidently of much later date of early first millennium.
The four Vedas Rig, Yajur, Sama and Atharva are the earliest literatures of mankind. They also form the basis of the way
of life that gradually metamorphosed into a religion, commonly and also erroneously at times, known as Hinduism. At their core the four Vedas are just books of knowledge and enlightenment as realized by the learned people of the time and presented in forms of manuals for rituals - mostly worship of natural forces. Rig Veda is the Knowledge of Recited Praise, Yajur Veda the Knowledge of Sacrifice, Sama Veda the Knowledge of Chanted Hymns and Atharva Veda the Knowledge of Prayers, Charms and Spells. Apart from Yajur Veda, all the other three were composed as perfect metrical verses. Many verses of Rig Veda are reused in various forms in all the other three later Vedas. Almost all the ancient civilizations were worshipers of nature and natural forces. So it's nothing extraordinary or exceptional for the Indians to worship fire, water, sky, wind and earth - the five basic natural forces.
At the dawn of civilization, when the human race was still under the spell of the powers and mysteries of the nature, it's very natural that most of her rituals would be centered around pleasing these mysterious forces. Metaphorically each of these forces was given a shape and form of super humans or Gods. All the knowledge, be it about philosophy or environment or mathematics or governance were packaged into the widely respected ritual manuals. Though the Vedas are regarded as religious books, still they have wealth of valuable information and knowledge and tremendous literary value. None other religious books in any other religion has such great value beyond the dogmatic significance. Most of the content in Vedas are relevant even now. That's precisely what makes the Vedas so unique. Most importantly the history of ancient India is impossible to construct without the Vedas.
Yajur Veda Two versions of the Yajur Veda, Shukla (White) and Krishna (Black), have remained till date in various
recensions or Sakhas or theological schools specialized in learning various Vedic texts.
It's quite fascinating to know that some 3000 years ago Indians were equally concerned about the harmony between man and nature. Yajur Veda speaks about being "in accordance with the earth". It stresses about an all expanding growth of mankind "spreading with a hundred branches" in absolute harmony with the nature. It's very obvious that the crisis of natural resources, that we see today, shouldn't have been a matter of concern some 3000 years ago, when the population was sparse and resources plenty. When the people were settling down in newer places across India they were cutting down forests, which were just everywhere, to setup habitats. But still some where in their mind they did have this concern about the vices of exploiting the natural resources. It's indeed quite incredible to find that all the thoughts that we see today towards eco-friendliness, preserving forests and any natural resources and the stress on a greener way of living did come to the minds of our ancestors. These thoughts were considered so important that they were included in the religious manuals to be reminded to everyone during the practice of rituals. Shukla Yajur Veda: 5.43 dyaammaa lekheerantarikshammaa himseeh prithivyaa sambhava | ayam hi tvaa svadhitistetijaanah praninaaya mahate saubhaagaaya | atastvandeva vanaspate shatavalsho viroha sahasravalshaa vi vayam ruhema | Graze not the sky. Harm not mid-air. Be in accordance with the earth. For this well-sharpened axe hath led thee forth to great felicity. Hence, with a hundred branches, God, Lord of the Forest, grow thou up. May we grow spreading with a hundred branches. The following verses from Shukla Yajur Veda mention the numbers upto ten raised to the power of 12 in steps
of
powers of 10, namely
ayuta
(10 raised to the power
4, or 10K ),
niyuta
(100K ),
prayuta
(1million ),
arbuda
(10 million ),
nyarbuda
(100 million ),
samudra
(1billion ),
madhya
(10 billion ),
anta
100 billion ) and
parardha
(1trillion ).
Shukla Yajur Veda: 17.2 imaa me'agna'ishtakaa dhenavah santvekaa cha dasha cha dasha cha shatancha shatancha sahasrancha sahasranchaayutanchaayutancha niyutancha niyutancha prayutanchaarbudancha nyarbudancha samudrashcha madhyanchaantashcha paraadheshchaitaa me'agna'ishtakaa dhenavah santvamutraamushmilloke O Agni, may these bricks be mine own milch kine: one, and ten, and ten tens - a hundred,
and ten hundreds - a thousand, and ten thousand - a myriad, and a hundred thousand, and a million, and a hundred millions, and an ocean middle and end, and a hundred thousand millions, and a billion. May these bricks be mine own milch-kine in yonder world and in this world. A similar list is available in
Taittiriiya
Samhita of Krişhņa Yajur Veda (4.4.11 and 7.2.20),
Maitrāyaņi
Samhita 2.8.12,
Kathaka
Samhita (17.10) etc. The Atharvaveda Samhita (6.25.1 thru 6.25.3, 7.4.1) specially emphasizes the common relationship between one and ten, three and thirty, five and fifty, nine and ninety, clearly indicating that the persons of the Vedic age had a good grasp of the basics of decimal system for positive integers.
The number four three two (four hundred and thirty two) million occurring frequently in Sanskrit works occurs in Atharva Veda (8.3.21). Yajur Veda also has the first reference to numeric infinity ( purna
or fullness) stating that if you subtract
purna from
purna
you're still left with
purna . It's quite a unique development in the field of science and mathematics on the part of the Indians compared to their contemporaries. At the same time it's quite confusing to learn that the same people, who had such in depth knowledge about mathematics lacked the knowledge of technology and engineering. The people of Indus Valley Civilization might not have known such level of mathematics, but they were masters in technology of town planning, navigation, ship building and many others. Sama Veda Sama Veda is the first book of songs known to mankind. It forms the earliest
foundation of Indian Classical Music . It also sets the foremost legacy of using songs as a form of worship, which over the ages has been proved to be the most popular form of worship in all religions. Music and sound not only play an important role in spirituality, but also in our normal lives. Sama Veda uses the sound, lyrics and music in a wonderful way to create the right aura and ambiance for spirituality and divinity. The text for the songs of Sama Veda are taken mainly from Rig Veda. The original Rig Vedic verses are altered a bit to fit into lyrical forms of Sama Veda. Many syllables are further modified and even added, where ever needed, to suit singing. Even a notation is also followed, though it is textually represented much later when the Vedic texts are first written. This is no doubt the first instance of notated music in the world. The text of Sama Veda, without modification and additions of syllables, is known as the Sama Veda Samhita. The song book has two variants - Gramagya, containing songs meant for singing (geya) in villages (grama) , & Aranyageya, containing songs meant for singing in the forest (aranya). Sama Veda (Samhita): 4.9.2.7 namah sakhibhyah poorvasadbhyo namah saakannishebhyah | yunje vaacham shatapadeem || yunje vaacham shatapadeem gaaye sahasravarttani | gaayatram traishtubham jagat || gaayatram traishtubham jagadvishvaa rupaani sambhritaa | devaa okaamsi chaktrire || Praise to the friends who sit in front! to those seated together, praise I use the hundred-footed speech speech. I use the hundred-footed speech, I sing what hath a thousand paths, Gayatra, Trishtup, Jagat hymn. Gayatra, Trishtup, Jagat hymn,the forms united and complete, Have the Gods made familiar friends. Atharva Veda Atharva Veda, the last of the four Vedas, is often criticized for dealing with super naturals. But philosophically it's perhaps much more deeper than the other three Vedas. It, no doubt, deals with topics more complex in nature.
It's the first Vedas that speaks about medicine and physiology. The first book of Atharva Veda speaks of the following: Hymn 2: A charm against dysentery Hymn 3: A charm against constipation and suppression of urine Hymn 4: To the waters, for the prosperity of cattle Hymn 5: To the waters, for strength and power Hymn 6: To the waters, for health and wealth Hymn 11: A charm to be used at child-birth Hymn 22: A charm against jaundice Hymn 23: A charm against leprosy Hymn 24: A charm against leprosy Hymn 25: A prayer to fever, as a charm against his attacks Hymn 26: A charm to obtain invisibility The following verses speak about the importance of Sabha and Samiti, the two popular forms of meetings during the Vedic Age. It's again an early example of argumentativeness of the Indians. The main purpose of these meetings was to discuss things of relevance openly in a common forum. The importance of such meetings is great in the proper governance of a country. It's clear from this verse that these meetings were taken quite seriously by the people. It's being pointed out that everyone should be fair in their words and every man should respect every other man in these meetings. Atharva Veda: 7.12.1 sabhaa cha maa samitishchaavataam prajaapaterduhitarau sanvidaane | yenaa samgachchhaa upa maa sa shikshaanchaaru vadaani pitarah sangateshu || In concord may Prajapati's two daughters, Gathering and Assembly, both protect me. May every man I meet respect and aid me. Fair be my words, O Fathers, at the meetings. The following verse speaks about atoms as the smallest unit of any object. Atharva Veda: 12.1.26 shilaa bhumirashmaa paamsu saa bhumih samdhrita dhrita | tasyai hiranyavakshase prithivyaa akaram namah || Rock earth, and stone, and dust, this Earth is held together, firmly bound. To this gold-breasted Prithivī mine adoration have I paid.
Here 'atoms' ( P āṃ su ) are described forming the stone, the stones agglutinating to form the rocks and the rocks held together to form the Earth. This is quite a unique realization made by the Indians some 3000 years back much before the concepts of atoms and molecules in modern science came into existence. Most importantly Atharva Veda refers to Iron as a metal for the first time, thus heralding the start of the Iron Age
and the end of Bronze Age sometime around 1100BC. Atharva Veda: 11.3.5, 6, 7 ashvaa kanaa gaavastandulaa mashakaastushaah ||5|| kabru faleekaranaah sharo'bhram ||6|| shyaamamayo'sya maamsaani lohitamasya lohitam
|| 7|| Horses are the grains, oxen the winnowed ricegrains, gnats the husks. (5) Kabru is the husked grain, the rain cloud is the reed. (6) Grey iron is its flesh, copper its blood. (7) The above hymn is in glorification of Odana or the boiled rice, a staple diet for most Indians even now. It glorifies
Odana metaphorically in many ways by saying that Brihaspati is its head, Brahma the mouth, Heaven and Earth are the ears, the Sun and Moon are the eyes, the seven Rishis are the vital airs inhaled and exhaled, and so on. Atharva Veda mentions the Kuru King Parikshita. The
Kuru
kingdom, or the confederation of tribes, would have been an important one in northern India around 1100 BC.
The first reference of
Anga
is found in the Atharva Veda
along with the
Magadha
(referred to as Kikata in Rig Veda),
Gandhara
(present day Kandahar region in Afghanistan) and
Mujavat
(perhaps an ancient non Aryan settlement beyond the Himavat, the Himalayas, and the Hindukush in the Pamir region), apparently as lands of despised people.
Champa, capital of Anga was one of the biggest cities and ports in Ancient India with trade links with far off places like Thailand (perhaps referred to as the mythical Suvarnabhumi) and Vietnam.
Chedi , mentioned in Rig Veda, was also another important kingdom. All of these early kingdoms later became
Mahajanapadas , or Great Kingdoms, over the next few centuries. Avesta Perhaps the most important thing contemporary to Atharva Veda is Gatha, the earliest Zoroastrian text, believed to be composed by Prophet Zarathushtra Himself. Like the Vedas the timeline of Gatha too is shrouded in mystery. The actual dating of Zarathushtra and his first sermons in the form of Gatha is a matter of debate and controversy. Here also we'll stick to one particular view point that appears more logical than the others. We'll consider 1100 BC as the timeline of Atharva Veda, Zarathushtra and Gatha. Gatha is a very important part of the Zoroastrian scripture known as Yasna. It's a collection of highly philosophic and profound hymns considered most sacred by the Zoroastrians. It's like the Bhagavat Gita that's inserted in Mahabharata and forms the crux of Hindu spirituality and philosophy.
First let's take a look into the language of Gatha. The Zoroastrian scriptures are called Avesta and the language Avestan. The language of Gatha is an early form of Avestan.
Following is a verse from the second hymn of Gatha. It's presented in Devanagari script, transliterated by Jatindra Mohan Chatterji. Gatha 2, Yasna 29.2 Now let's see the Rig Vedic translation of the verse. It will show how close the two languages - Gathan Avesta (Av.) and Rig Vedic Sanskrit (Skt.) - are. Each and every word in Gatha has a very close Rig Vedic cognate. The cognates sound so similar that entire texts in Gatha can be translated to Rig Vedic Sanskrit by simply transliterating each word.
Avestan
Rig Vedic Adâ tashâ gêush peresat ashem
Ada tasa goh aprisat asham
Kathâ tôi gavôi ratush |
Katha te gave ratus | Hyat hîm dâtâ kshayañtô
hadâ
Yah him
dhata
kshayat sada Vâstrâ gaodâyô thwakshô |
Vastra godhah tvakshah | kêm hôi ushtâ ahurem
Kam asya
ushatha
asuram
Yê dregvôdebîsh aêshemem vâdâyôit ||
Yah drugvadbhi ishmam vadhayayet || Skt.
tasa , Creator - related to the root
tvaksh
and Av.
thwaksh
meaning creation Skt.
go
and
gava , cow, cattle - used here in the sense of people, signifying the world.;
godha
is used in the sense of sustainer (coming from Skt. root
dha ) of the world ( go ) Av.
asha, arsh, eresh, arta
come from Skt.
rita
meaning divine law, truth in general, righteousness; Skt. rita -->
Av . arta --> arsha --> asha ; Like the RV
rita
the Avestan
asha
is also a very important concept;
ratu , a related word, is used in the sense of Prophet, apostle, someone who stands for righteousness and truth Skt.
vastra , coming from root
vas
meaning to remain, to live, to shine, is used in the sense of active Skt.
kshayat , powerful, dominant - comes from root
kshi Skt.
asura
and Av.
ahura
- God Skt. and Av.
dru , meaning enemy -
drugvadbhi
comes from
dru , used in the sense of wicked. Then the Creator of the world asked Asha, "Where is thy Prophet for the world who, capable, world-forester and vigorous, would sustain her always? Whom do you intend as her Lord, as one who can thwart the violence of the wicked?"
-- Translated by Jatindra Mohan Chatterji, 1967 Upon this the Creator of the Kine (the holy herds) asked of Righteousness: How (was) thy guardian for the Kine (appointed) by thee when, as having power (over all her fate), ye made her? (In what manner did ye secure) for her, together with pasture, a cattle-chief who was both skilled and likewise energetic? Whom did ye select as her (life's) master who might hurl back the fury of the wicked? -- Translated by L. H. Mills, 1898 Then the Ox-Creator asked of the Right: "Hast thou a judge for the Ox, that ye may be able to appoint him zealous tendance as well as fodder? Whom do ye will to be his lord, who may drive off violence together with the followers of the Lie?"
-- Translated by C Bartholomae Let's see another hymn from Gatha. This is from Yasna 28.8. Yasna 28.8 Avestan
Rig Vedic Vahishtem thwâ vahishtâ ýêm
Vasishtham tvâm Vasishthah ayam Ashâ vahishtâ hazaoshem |
Ashâya Vasishthâya sujoshâm | Ahurem ýâsâ vâunush
Asura yâse vanvânah Narôi Ferashaoshtrâi maibyâ câ |
Nare Prishoshtrâya mahyam cha | Yaêibyas câ ît rånghanghôi
Yemyah ca rasasi Vîspâi ýavê vanghêush mananghô ||
Vishvaya yavaya vasoh manasah || Skt.
Vasishtha
& Av,
Vahishta , means most excellent, the superlative of Skt.
vasu
& Av.
vohu
- come from the Skt. root
vas , meaning to shine, to grow bright; The Persian
behest , meaning heaven and the English best
come from Av.
vahishta ; Vasishtha is a composer of RV and very famous personality in Hinduism;
Skt.
sujosham , Av.
hazaoshem
come from the Skt. root
jush
and Av.
zaosha , meaning to be delighted, enjoy, love, cherish - used in the sense of divine love and enjoying divine delight -
I, the best, will enjoy You, the best, with Asha, the best Skt.
vanvana , meaning loving - comes from root
van , akin to Eng. win and Lat. venus; winning by physical means of hurting and injuring is transformed into winning by means of love; another example of simplistic physical meanings getting transformed into something more profound philosophic; more such cases discussed
here Skt.
rarasi , meaning bestowing - comes from root
ra This one (myself), being at his best (Purity), would realize You, the best (Deity), with Rectitude, the best (faculty). I, beloving, would worship Ahura, for manly Frashoshtra, and for me, as well as for those, to whom You consign Conscience, for all time. -- Chatterji The best I ask of Thee, O Best, Ahura (Lord) of one will with the Best Asha, desiring (it) for the hero Frashaostra and for those (others) to whom thou wilt give (it), (the best gift) of Good Mind through all time. -- Mills The similarities in the languages indeed mean that the composers of Gatha and those of Rig Veda were very closely associated. In the
Aryan Trail
we've mentioned that a group of Indo Aryans stayed back in Central Asia and Afghanistan while the others entered India. For a very long time the Indo Aryans of India and Afghanistan had a very good relation, practiced almost the same religion and followed the same tradition. Around the timeline of Atharva Veda there seems to be an intellectual conflict between two groups of Aryans that leads to their separation. One group continues to stay in Afghanistan and very soon comes in close contact with the Iranian peoples coming from the steppes (Timber Grave Culture) and settling in various parts of Iran. We may call this group of people proto Avestan as their language gradually moves away from the Rig Vedic Sanskrit and takes the shape of Avesta. Zarathushtra, one of them, eventually founds the Zoroastrian religion. As the Avestans stay close to the Iranians - their kins, being members of the same Indo Iranian peoples - their language starts picking up more Iranian components.
It's not a surprise that Avestan, despite the strong Rig Vedic connection, is classified as an Iranian language. The other group of Indo Aryans, who separates from the proto Avestan peoples, move towards India and stay connected to the culture and religion of the Aryans of India.
Now if we assume that the proto Avestan peoples stayed in Central Asia and Afghanistan for a long time then we should expect the reference to places from this region in their texts. In fact they are better than the Rig Vedic peoples in this respect. The first chapter of Vendidad, a later Avestan text, is about sixteen perfect lands created by Ahur Mazda, the Highest God of the Zoroastrians.
The Vendidad starts with: Ahura Mazda spake unto Spitama Zarathushtra, saying: "I have made every land dear (to its people), even though it had no charms whatever in it: had I not made every land dear (to its people), even though it had no charms whatever in it, then the whole living world would have invaded the Airyana Vaeja." It continues: Asanghãmca shôithranãmca vahishtem frâthweresem azem ýô Ahurô Mazdå The best ( vahishtem ) lands
and countries
which I, Ahura Mazda, created ( frâthweresem,
from the Av. root
thwaksh ) Then it gives the list of the sixteen best Aryan countries: the Airyana Vaeja
the plain which the Sughdhas inhabit,
gâum ýim Sukhdhô-shayanem -
modern Sughd Province in Tajikistan and ancient Sogdiana the strong, holy Mouru,
M ôurum sûrem ashavane -
ancient Margiana, areas around modern day Mary/Merv in Turkmenistan. Mouru may be a cognate of Skt. maru meaning desert and also mountain. the beautiful Bakhdhi with high-lifted banner,
B âxdhîm srîrãm eredhwô-drafshãm -
Balkh in Afghanistan and ancient Bactria, Skt. Vahlika Nisaya, that lies between the Mouru and Bakhdhi,
N isâim ýim añtare Môurumca Bâxdhîmca -
as mentioned, it's a place between Merv & Balkh. the house-deserting Haroyu,
H arôyûm ýim vish-harezanem -
area around Herat in Afghanistan, Skt. Sarayu, Persian Harirud River. Vaekereta, of the evil shadows,
V aêkeretem ýim dûzhakô- sayanem -
probably some place in north east Iran. Urva of the rich pastures,
U rvãm pouru-vâstrãm -
area around Hamum Lake in Iran Khnenta which the Vehrkanas inhabit,
X neñtem ýim Vehrkânô- shayanem -
Gorgan in Iran, Skt. Vrika the beautiful Harahvaiti,
H arahvaitîm srîrãm -
Vedic Saraswati, modern Arghandab, Greek Arachosia, a tributary of Helmand. the bright, glorious Haetumant,
H aêtumañtem raêvañtem hvarenanguhañtem -
Helmand River in Afghanistan. Though Arghandab matches etymologically with Saraswati, but Helmand basin is generally identified with Saraswati. Ragha of the three races,
R akhãm thrizañtûm -
modern Rai, south of Tehran the strong, holy Chakhra,
C axrem sûrem ashavanem -
a place by the name Carx in the ancient Khorasan in Central Asia (Northern Iran) the four-cornered Varena,
V arenem ýim cathru-gaoshem -
Bannu, Skt. Varnu the Seven Rivers,
H apta Heñdu -
Skt. Sapta Sindhu or the land of the Seven Rivers, that's the Punjab. the land by the sources of the Rangha, where people live who have no chiefs,
upa aodhaêshu Ranghayå ýô asârô aiwyâxshayeiñti -
Rangha or Rasa,
a mythical river in Rig Veda with strong Indo European connections,
may be
one of the unexplored or lesser explored northern tributaries of Indus in Hindukush region. Ahura Mazda is the Supreme God of the Zoroastrians and Zarathushtra is His Prophet. Av.
Ahura
is akin to Skt. Asura , which, we've seen in
Aryan Trail , means both God and demon in Rig Veda. Mazda is akin to Skt.
medha , which means intellect. So Ahura Mazda stands for divine intellect. Opposite to Ahura Mazda is the devil Angra Mainyu. Each of the sixteen verses that define the sixteen holy lands of the Aryans end with a reference to the devil,
'Thereupon came Angra Mainyu, who is all death, and he counter-created Winter, a work of the Daevas'. Av. Mainyu is surely a cognate of Skt.
manu , mind and Angra may refer to the Rig Vedic Angirasa - here also Av. Angra and Skt. Angirasa seem to be cognates. This is the clue to the conflict between the two groups of Aryans in Afghanistan. This conflict finally leds to the separation of the two. We've argued in the
Aryan Trail
that the Dasa peoples, the first lot of Indo Aryans to arrive in Central Asia in BMAC around 1900 BC, used to call their Gods Asura. The Rig Vedic Aryans, the later lot of Aryans appearing in BMAC around 1700 BC, first fought with the Dasa peoples and later came to a truce. The term Asura meaning demon and then being elevated to the status of God may be an indication of the animosity and eventual truce between the two groups of Aryans. The word Asura means supreme spirit and in Rig Veda is generally said of Varuna, one of the oldest Indo European Gods. We've seen in many discussions that Varuna is the upholder of truth and law ( satyam-ritam ); He stands for wisdom and discernment ( putadaksham ); He stands for perfected intellect ( dhiyam ghritachim ). So the Avestan Ahura Mazda (Skt.
asura medha ), which stands for divine intellect and is associated with Asha (Skt.
rita),
is very likely none other than Varuna.
Varuna being the oldest God the cult of Varuna worship can be very well called the path leading to the elders, the pitris , or
pitriyana . Both Rig Veda and Atharva Veda mention
Pitriyana .
Though Varuna is an older God still Indra seems to have more authority among the Rig Vedic Aryans. He is the chief of all the deities,
deva . Like the epithet
asura,
which is
associated with Varuna,
deva
is associated with Indra. So the cult of Indra worship may be called
devayana . We've seen that Indra is the power of mind and intellect, impelled by thoughts and driven by the illumined thinker, dhiyeshita viprajuta.
When the intellect, the thought is further perfected and enriched we see the power of profound knowledge, wisdom and consciousness that's represented by Varuna. But going by the double meaning in Rig Veda Indra is always represented by a physical strength that destroys and kills enemies.
He stands for generus heroism. In contrast Varuna is the more lofty and spiritual one. The following verse from Rig Veda depicts the popular image of Indra and Varuna: Vṛtrāṇyanyaḥ samitheṣu jighnate vratānyanyo abhi rakṣate sadā |
Havāmahe vāṃ vṛṣaṇā suvṛktibhir asme indrāvaruṇaā śarma yachatam ||
7.83.9 One of you Twain destroys the Vṛtras in the fight, the Other evermore maintains his holy Laws. We call on you, ye Mighty, with our hymns of praise. Vouchsafe us your protection, Indra-Varuṇa. We can very well assume that going by the popular images of Indra and Varuna their worshipers - the
devayanists and the
pitriyanists
- would surely be two different lots. There are references to
devayana
and
pitriyana
in Rig Veda and Atharva Veda. Following is one instance from Atharva Veda. Anrina asmin anrinah parasmin tritiye loke anrinah syama | Ye devayanah pitriyanah ca loka sarvan patho anrina a kshiyema || 6.117.3 (Atharva Veda) May we be free in this world and that yonder, in the third
world may we be unindebted. May we, debt-free, abide in all the pathways - the
devayana
and
pitriyana . It's not unlikely that these two groups of people - the
devayanists
and
pitriyanists , the worshipers of Indra and Varuna - would have intellectual conflicts between them because at a very low level their Gods are so very different - one stands for lofty spirituality and the other for heroism. With passage of time the deeper meanings and inner significances of Indra and Varuna might have been superseded by the simplistic and more popular aspects. The breakup of the two groups of Aryans in Afghanistan might have been due to this conflict. The proto Avestan group are surely the
pitriyanists , the worshipers of Varuna, Who eventually becomes Ahura Mazda. Now let's again shift our focus to Atharva Veda. The term
atharvan
is derived from an obsolete word
athar , which means fire. Atharvan literally means fire priests and Atharva Veda is the book of hymns of the Fire Priests, the Atharvans. In Avestan too
atar
means fire. The Avestan cognate for Atharvan is Athravan and Zarathushtra, the founder of Zoroastrianism, Himself is an Athravan. He is said to be a descendant of someone called Spitama. As the Avesta and Zarathushtra are so closely associated with the Fire Priests Atharvan (and in turn the Atharva Veda) let's find out the identity of Spitama and his connection to the Atharvans. Gopatha Brahmana, a later Vedic text refers to Atharva Veda as Bhrigu Angirasi Samhita, the
samhita
or the book written by Bhrigu and Angiras. But now only Angiras is associated with the Atharva Veda. Both Bhrigu and Angiras are no doubt fire priests. The term Bhrigu and Angiras refer to the individuals Bhrigu and Angiras and also to the peoples, the descendants or the followers of the Bhrigu and Angiras. The word
angiras
comes from the root
ang
or ag
and directly means fire.
Bhrigu
comes from the root
bhraj,
which means to shine, sparkle and glitter, and the mythical Bhrigu race is closely connected with fire in Rig Veda. The name Spitama, the ancestor of Zrathushtra, seems to be a cognate of
svetatama , meaning brightest and surely an epithet for Bhrigu. So it may not be illogical to deduce that Zarthushtra Himself is one of the Bhrigu
antharvans , having descended from Spitama, also a Bhrigu atharvan. So now we know that the Avestan peoples are
pitriyanists , worshipers of Varuna, their Ahura Mazda, while the other group of Aryans are
devayanists . We also know that Zarathushtra descends from Spitama, one of the Bhrigu atharvans . If we correlate these two points we can say that the Bhrigus, the ancestors of the Avestans, are pitriyanists
and the Angirasas
devayanists . We can also infer that the aforementioned two conflicting groups of Aryan peoples in Afghanistan were the Bhrigus and the Angirasas, who eventually break up from each other around the time frame of Atharva Veda - the Angirasas of India are then associated with the Atharva Veda in India and the Bhrigus with the Avesta in Afghanistan. So the Bhrigu-Angirasa Samhita mentioned in Gopatha Brahmana may refer to the parallel development of Atharva Veda and Avesta by the Angirasas and Bhrigus. It also finds credence in Angirasa being referred to in Avesta as a devil, Angra Mainyu, in contrast to Bhrigu, Spitama. Around the World Early Vedic Age is contemporary to 18-20th dynasties of New Kingdom of Egyptian Empire. Around 1100 BC
Greek City States ,
Troy
being one of the most important ones, came to a spectacular end. The
Homeric Trojan War
is also believed to have occurred sometime in the 12th century BC. In west Asia the
Kassites
have been ruling in
Babylon
since 16th century BC. Their rule came to an end in 1155 BC when it fell to
Elam
(Iran). Finally after five centuries Babylon was conquered back by native ruler
Nebuchandrezzar I
in 1125 from the Kassites. Around the same the
Hittites
(Turkey) were declining and the
Assyrians
becoming more and more powerful. The first Assyrian Empire was established around the same time. Also Israel was getting formed. Reference and Useful Links Rig Veda
Devanagari Book
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10 English Translation S hukla (White) Yajur Veda :
Devanagari
English Translation Krishna (Black) Yajur Veda Taitiriya Samhita:
Devanagari
English Translation Sama Veda :
Devanagari
English Translation Atharva Veda :
Devanagari
English Translation Wikipedia Discovery of India Argumentative Indian
Indian History Timeline
|
Sudipto's Home
Posted by
Sudipto Das
at
7:49 AM
No comments:
Post a Comment
Newer Post
Older Post
Home
Subscribe to:
Post Comments (Atom)
Useful Links
Misc.
Useful Links: General
Census
CIA: India Facts
CIA: Statistics
Districts of India
Election Commission
Human Development Indicators
India One Stop
Maps
National Portal
States of India
UN Development Program
UNESCO India
UNICEF
Useful Links: Indology
Ancient Indian Literature
culturalindia.net
Encyclopedia of Indian Culture
hinduwisdom.info
History Maps
Indian History Timeline
UNECSO Memory of World List
World Heritage Sites
Useful Links: Economy
Asian Development Bank
Budget
Consumer Market
CSO: Statistics
Economic Census
GDP Data
Latest GDP of India
NASSCOM
Planning Commission
Rural Development Institute
Swaminomics
World Bank
Search indigyan
Search entire web
Columns
Gurucharan Das
Shashi Tharoor
Swaminathan S. Anklesaria Aiyar
Blog Archive
►
2015
(1)
►
January
(1)
▼
2011
(17)
▼
April
(2)
Rig Veda: Chariot, Constellations & Pole Star
India in 1100 BC: Atharva Veda & Iranian Avesta
►
March
(15)
►
2009
(9)
►
December
(1)
►
August
(1)
►
June
(1)
►
March
(1)
►
February
(2)
►
January
(3)
►
2008
(23)
►
December
(5)
►
November
(4)
►
October
(1)
►
September
(3)
►
July
(5)
►
June
(1)
►
May
(4)
Blogs by Topic
Art and Culture
Art and Culture - Books
Art and Culture - Music
Foundations of Growth
Foundations of Growth - Health
General
Gurucharan Das
Leisure and Passion
Leisure and Passion - Travel
People and Prosperity
People and Prosperity - Economy
People and Prosperity - People
People and Prosperity - Politics
Present and Past
Present and Past - Current Affairs
Present and Past - History
Religion and Festivals
Swapan Dasgupta
The Times of India - Columns
Loading...
NDTV National News
Loading...
The Times of India - Nation
Loading...
The Economic Times - Economy
Loading...
The Economic Times - Markets
Loading...
Gallup Surveys
Loading...
National Anthem
Loading...
Vande Mataram
Loading...
Sare Jahan Se Achchha
Loading...
About Me
Sudipto Das
View my complete profile