Juhi's 2¢: 2. The Epic Mahabharata
skip to main
|
skip to sidebar
Monday, September 27, 2010
2. The Epic Mahabharata
( see
introduction )
The English translation of the word "Mahabharata" is "Great Bharata"; "Bharata" can mean many things (see the
disambiguation ), although relevant to the epic it refers to the kingdom of emperor Bharata, or "Bharatvarsha"; "Bharat" is now the Hindi term for the "Republic of India".
Within the Bharata Dynasty falls the
Kuru
clan, who fight among themselves (the Pandava and the Kaurava factions) leading to the famous
Battle of Kurukshetra , which becomes the subject of the epic Mahabharata.
The Mahabharata is the oldest and longest epic poem found to date, containing about 90,000
slokas
(verses). The poem begins when the credited author
Vyasa
(who is also a character in the narrative) asks
Ganesha
to write down the narration that he has just composed.
Later the poem would be recited to
Janamejaya
(a Kuru descendant), as a cautionary tale about the war of his ancestors that almost entirely annihilated the Kuru race.
These beginnings are noted in the first book of the Mahabharata, along with a brief summary of the epic.
The next 17 books provide, in excruciating detail, the story of Mahabharata.
One additional book, the
Harivamsa
Parva (the book of Hari's genealogy), talks about the life of Krishna (Hari), who is considered Vishnu's eighth avatar in Vaishnav Hinduism (see Context:
Mythology ).
The fact that this book is more or less appended to the end of the epic has caused some debate among scholars (see Literature:
Themes ).
Other than good old
Wikipedia , which is appropriate for a general overview of the Mahabharata,
MahabharataOnline.com
is a pretty good online resource for informal reading of the epic.
MAIN CHARACTERS
Mahabharantaonline.com has individual stories of the epic's
characters ; however those listed here are linked to Wikipedia pages.
The Kuru Family
The central characters in the family are:
Kauravas  - "descendants of the Kurus"; the 101 sons of the blind king
Dhritirashtra .
Pandavas  - "sons of the Pandu"; the five sons of
Pandu , Dhritirashtra's younger brother; they stand in opposition to the Kauravas in the war; they share a common wife, Draupadi.
Bhishma  - aka Devdatta (gift from the Gods); son of king
Shantanu
and goddess
Ganga
(river Ganges); great-uncle to the Pandavas/Kauravas; known for his terrible ("bhishan") vow of life-long celebacy and service to the throne of Hastinapur.
Duryodhana
- eldest Kaurava; entitled to the throne of Hastinapur prior to the war; most vocal opponent of the Pandavas; often depicted as villainous and jealous.
Kunti  - mother of the three eldest Pandavas and Karna; first wife of Pandu; has a boon to invoke a god and obtain a child from him, which comes in handy as Pandu cannot have children (see Literature:
Themes ).
Karna  - warrior and ally to the Kauravas; eldest son of Kunti (obtained via a boon by invoking
Surya , the Sun god); born out of wed-lock and abandoned by Kunti; raised by a Charioteer.
Yudhishthira  - aka "Dharmaraj" (king of Dharma); first son of Kunti and Pandu (obtained via a boon by invoking
Yama , the god of Judgement);looses his inheritance, brothers, and wife (Draupadi) to the Kauravas in a game of dice that is the turning point of the epic.
Draupadi  - wife to the Pandavs; originally sought for Yudhishthira but due to a triviality "shared" among the brothers; she is dragged into court and publically humiliated after being gambled away, causing oaths to be taken that would eventually play out during the war (see Literature:
Themes ).
Bhima  - second son of Kunti and Pandu (obtained via a boon by invoking
Vayu , the god of the Winds); known for his strength and anger; after Draupadi's humiliation, he vows to drink Dushasana's blood and wash Draupadi's hair with it (which he does during the war) before she will tie it again; also marries and has a son with a
rakshasa
(giant) woman.
Arjuna  - third son of Kunti and Pandu (obtained via a boon by invoking
Indra , god of War); perhaps the greatest of warriors in the epic, with various weapons obtained from his visit to the heavens; recieves the Bhagvad Gita from Krishna, who is his charioteer during the war, upon breaking down and refusing to fight his family at the start of the battle; his unborn grandson is the only Pandava successor to survive the war to continue the Kuru lineage.
Divine Intervention
Krishna
is approached by both Arjuna and Duryodhana for alliance in the war; while Duryodhana chooses to take Krishna's military help, Arjuna chooses Krishna himself, who then becomes his charioteer. Prior to the battle, Krishna delivers to the Kauravas a peace message from the Pandavas, which is unreciprocated; ironically he is also the one who convinces Arjuna to fight the battle by delivering the
Bhagvad Gita
(song of God). At both these scenes, Krishna reveals himself to be Vishnu but only Arjuna is able to see the divine vision (read about
darshan
in Hinduism).
See Context:
Mythology , Literature:
Themes .
SYNOPSIS
Mahabharata is full of side-stories that make the text of the epic so lengthy; however, the "meat" of the poem is made up of the conflict between the Kauravas and Pandavas and the war that ensues between them. Let's begin with the romantic-at-heart king Shantanu of Hastinapur, who woos Ganga and suffers the deaths of seven of their sons at her hands, before he breaks his vow and stops her in order to keep the eighth son, Devdatta (read the story of
Shantanu ). Devdatta would have to take a vow of celibacy and service to the throne of Hastinapur before a fisherman would agree to marry his daughter, Satyavati, to Shantanu, who had once again fallen in love, alas.
Since then Devdatta would be known as Bhishma for his terible vow (read the story of
Bhishma ).
Satyavati's son
Vichitravirya
dies before he is able conceive an heir so the terrible sage Vyasa (Satyavati's first son, born out of wedlock; read the story of
Satyavati ) is asked to lie with the two wives of Vichitravirya: Ambika, who had shut her eyes for fear of Vyasa, conceives the blind Dhritirashtra, and Ambalika who had trembled with fear of him, conceives the weak Pandu.
Fearing this, Satyavati asks Vyasa to grant the family another son and so a fearless maid-servant conceives the wise Vidhur, who would become the voice of reason and foresight to the throne of Hastinapur (read one version of this
story ).
Dhritirashtra marries Gandhari, the princess of Gandhar, who spends the rest of her life blindfolded for the sake of her husband's blindness. Her brother Shakuni out of spite for this, vows to destroy the Kuru clan. Shakuni becomes one of the key players for causing of the conflict between the cousins as he sows the seeds of jealousy in the minds of his nephews (the Kauravas), especially Duryodhana (read the stories of
Gandhari
and
Shakuni ). Dhritirashtra fathers 101 sons and one daughter, forming the Kaurava faction of the family.
Because Dhritirashtra is blind, the kingdom passes to Pandu.
Pandu marries Kunti (an aunt of Krishna), who has been granted a boon so that she may invoke a god and conceive a child by him. Kunti has already tried out this boon, and abandoned her firstborn (Karna, of
Surya , the Sun god) for fear of society. Pandu obtains a curse that he will die at the moment of orgasm, so he asks Kunti to use her boon in order to obtain children. Yudhishthira (of
Yama , the god of Judgement), Bhima (of
Vayu , the god of the Winds), and Arjuna (of
Indra , god of War) are conceived this way. Because of Kunti's teachings, Pandu's second wife Madri also obtains two twin sons this way: Nakula
and
Sahadeva
(of the
Ashvin Twins , the Vedic gods of the Sunset and Sunrise). Eventually, Pandu has intercourse with Madri and dies. Dhritirashtra then takes over the kingdom until the princes finish their education and training that they were then taking under their teacher
Drona .
Rifts have already built between the Kauravas and the Pandavas, as the Pandavas (especially Arjuna) excel at everything earning the love of Drona Acharya and the jealousy of Duryodhana and the rest of the Kauravas (read the story of
Drona Acharya ).
At the return of the princes, Karna is introduced to the Kauravas (and Pandavas) in a tournament and becomes friends with Duryodhana, who makes him king of
Anga . Yudhishthira is older than Duryodhana by a bit, and so he inherits the kingdom from Dhritirashtra and prospers. Yudhishtira bases his capital in Indraprastha, where he commissions a Palace of Wonders worthy of envy.
Duryodhana, on the other hand, wants the kingdom back. With Shakuni, the Kauravas plan to gamble with the Pandavas with the kingdom at stake. Shakuni, who has never been defeated at dice, plays for the Kauravas and Yudhishthira, who has a weakness for gambling, plays for the Kauravas.
When Yudhishthira loses his wealth, he stakes the kingdom, then his brothers, and then Draupadi, their wife, and loses all. In what is probably one of the most emotionally-charged chapters in the epic, now that Draupadi is no longer queen, Duryodhana orders younger brother
Dushasana
to drag her into court. When she questions the ethics and judgement of the court, Dushasana begins to disrobe her.
Draupadi prays to Krishna, who saves her honour by creating an illusion of a never-ending sari. After Dushasana has tired, Draupadi once again questions the morality of the elders and people present in the court to witness this, including her husbands. See the scene from BR Chopra's Mahabharat,
episode 47
on Youtube (seek to 14:00).
At Draupadi's appeal, Dhritirashtra agrees to return what they won to the Pandavas on the condition that the Pandavas be banned for the next 12 years, and spend the 13th year incognito. Here ends the second book, the
Sabha Parva . Their twelve years are described in the third book (the
Vana Parva ), and their thirteenth year in the fourth book (the
Virata Parva ). When the Pandavas return a conflict about their condition having been met arises leading to no compromise but war, hence take place the remaining books, in war.
Bhishma is the first Kaurava commander, as he must service the throne of Hastinapur (currently under Duryodhana) according to his vow. Eventually these warriors (Bhishma, Karna, Drona) fall at the hands of the Pandavas. The Pandavas lose all their sons by Draupadi in a fire set by an enemy warrior. In the end, apart from the Pandavas themselves, only Arjuna's unborn grandson survives as an heir. Arjuna's son
Abhimanyu
had already impregnated his wife Uttara, before he makes a heroic sacrifice (read the story of
Abhimanyu ).
Uttara would give birth to
Parikshit , who would be killed by a serpent and his son
Janamejaya
would then vow to annihilate the naga (serpent) race (read the stories of
Parikshit
and
Janamejaya ). Janamejaya would be stopped by Vyasa, Satyavati's first son and the author of the epic, who would tell him the story of Mahabharata and caution him about the consequences of emotional vows and wars.
TEXT & TRANSLATIONS
The
full Sanskrit text
of the Mahabharata is available online, along with English alliterations of the verses. Kisari Mohan Ganguli published the first
complete English translation
of the epic Mahabharata between the years 1883 and 1896. It is currently the only complete translation available in the public domain. A brief
summary
by Professor
James L. Fitzgerald
of the University of Tennessee, Knoxville, is also available online.
ONLINE CHAPTER SUMMARIES
MahabharataOnline.com has a summary by C. Rajagopalachari who tells the Mahabharata in a
story-like format . About.com has a summary by Romesh C. Dutt, who follows the structure of the epic and translates the Mahabharata according to selected verses from the
chapters of the books .
About.com also has a detailed
timeline
of events occurring in the story of the Mahabharata compiled by Dr. K.N.S. Patnaik.
see part 3:
Literature and the Mahabharata
Posted by
juhi
at
9:14 PM
Labels:
books ,
mahabharata ,
mythology
Reactions:
1 comment:
Anonymous June 11, 2013 at 4:18 AM Interesting work! Reply Delete Add comment Load more...
Newer Post
Older Post
Home
Subscribe to:
Post Comments (Atom)
i pen pen pen... and collect pennies.
juhi's pages
The Tech Blog
DeviantArt Gallery
Google Profile
Facebook Profile
Picasa Web Albums
penny collection
►
2012
(1)
►
January
(1)
►
2011
(2)
►
December
(1)
►
January
(1)
▼
2010
(16)
▼
September
(4)
3. Literature and the Mahabharata
2. The Epic Mahabharata
1. Context of the Mahabharata
Mahabharata post series - Introduction
►
July
(2)
►
May
(2)
►
April
(3)
►
March
(4)
►
February
(1)
►
2009
(6)
►
November
(1)
►
August
(1)
►
July
(4)
what i'm reading
The Onion
American Voices: Paul Ryan Elected Speaker Of The House
2 days ago
Wet anklets......
wet-anklets
2 years ago
Golpoguccho...
The Rockies Reloaded
2 years ago
Ramblings From Selfistan
24hrs. Later and Still Spellbound
3 years ago
FP Legal Post
Legal Post blog has moved
5 years ago
Free Online Watch Movies
Halo 1996 Hindi Movie Watch Online Part 1
5 years ago
UBCevents Calendar
procrastination101
World Timeline
Indo-European Language Tree
Chanakya Niti
Neutrino (Wikipedia)
Psychological Types (Wikipedia)
Cosmo! ;)
WebSudoku
CanvasRirer
TheOatmeal
Stylish
penny-gazers
follow by email
looking for Something?
Loading...