BHATIA COMMUNITY'S ENCYCLOPEDIA (ALL CLICKS)
BHATIA COMMUNITY'S ENCYCLOPEDIA (ALL CLICKS)
Thursday, January 6, 2011
LOARD SHREEKRISHNA RUKSHMANIJI - Lunar Dynasty
In  Hindu scriptures , the  Lunar Dynasty  ( Chandravanshi  or  Somavanshi ) is one of the three principal houses of the  Kshatriya   Varna , or warrior–ruling  caste . The Dynasty claims descent from the Moon ( Soma  or  Chandra ), while the other principal houses, the  Solar Dynasty ( Suryavanshi ) claims descent from the Sun ( Surya ) and the  Agnivanshi  claim to have been born to the fire God  Agni . Vansh essentially translates to family tree, so Chandra-, Surya- or Agnivanshi means the family tree or genealogy of the descendants of the Moon, Sun and Fire gods. Within these family trees sub-branches such as  Bharatvansh ,  Yaduvansh ,  Puruvansh , Kuruvansh ,  Pandavansh  etc. emerged, named after a prominent progenitor of the line.
Contents   [ hide ] 1   List of monarchs of the Lunar Dynasty
2   Chandra's line 2.1   Vijaya Vansha 2.1.1   Ayu Vansh 2.1.1.1   Ayu Line 1 - Kshatravriddh Vansha
2.1.1.2   Pururva - Ayu - Kshatravriddh - Kashya Vansa
2.1.1.3   Pururva - Ayu - Kshatravriddh - Kush Vansha
2.1.1.4   Pururva - Ayu - Kshatravriddh - Grihatsmad Vansh
2.1.2   Ayu Line 2 - by Anena
2.1.3   Ayu Line 3 - by Rambh
2.1.4   Ayu Line 4 - by Raji
2.1.5   Ayu Line 5 - by Nahush 2.1.5.1   Nahush's son Yayati's vansha
2.1.5.2   Nahush -> Yayati -> Puru's Vansha
2.1.5.3   Hasti Line 1 Ajameedh
2.1.5.4   Hasti -> Ajameedh Line 1-> Priyameedh
2.1.5.5   Hasti -> Ajameedh Line 2-> Neel
2.1.5.6   Hasti Line 2 Dwimeedh
2.1.5.7   Hasti Line 3 Purumeedh - No child
3   Another version 3.1   Kuru Vansha
3.2   After Yudhishthir 3.2.1   Vrishni Vansha
3.2.2   Nahush -> Yayati -> Yadu's Vansha
4   Yadu to Sanvaran
5   Jadon (Yadava) lineage
6   Major cities of Famous Chandravanshi Kings 6.1   Rohtas
6.2   Dwarka
6.3   Surpur
6.4   Hastinapur
6.5   Panchala
6.6   Kannauj
6.7   Rajgriha and Hastinapur
6.8   Uru or Turvasu lineage Kingdoms 6.8.1   Kalanjar
6.8.2   Kerala
6.8.3   Pandya
6.8.4   Chaul
6.9   Angades
7   See also
8   References
9   External links
[ edit ] List of monarchs of the Lunar Dynasty Asia in 1200 AD, showing the  Yadava  Dynasty and its neighbors. According to the  Bhavishya Purana  legend, of debatable dating, the origin of the Lunar Dynasty began with Brahma in the Treta Yuga (second era): [ 1 ] [ 2 ] Brahma  had Manasputra (Mind born son)  Atri
Atri produced Chandra (Moon God) from his eyes. In the third part of  Treta Yuga ,  Indra  sent Chandra, Rohini's husband, to Prithvi (Earth). His capital was Prayag  and was a devout worshiper of  Vishnu  and  Shiva . He performed 100 Yagyas  (Oblations) to please Mahamaya (God). He ruled for 18,000 years and then ascended to heaven.
His son was Budh.
[ edit ] Chandra's line Indra sent Chandra to Prithvi (18,000 yrs)
Chandra's son was Budh - from  Ila
Budh's son was Pururava (14,000 yrs)
Pururava had six sons in the beginning of Treta Yuga.
Ayu
Shrutayu
Satyayu
Raya
Vijaya
Jaya
[ edit ] Vijaya Vansha Vijaya's son was Bheem
Bheem's son was Kanchan
Kanchan's son was Hotra
Hotra's his son was Jahnu. He drank all the water of the  River Ganges . This prince, whilst performing a sacrifice, saw the whole of the place overflowed by the waters of the  Ganges . Highly offended at this intrusion, his eyes red with anger, he united the spirit of sacrifice with himself, by the power of his devotion, and drank up the river. The gods and sages upon this came to him, and appeased his indignation, and reobtained Gangá from him, in the capacity of his daughter (whence she is called Jáhnaví).
Jahnu's son was Poru
Poru's son was Balak
Balak's son Ajak
Ajak's son was Kush
Kush had four sons
Kushambhu
Tanaya
Vasu
Kushnabh
Kushnabh's son was Gadhi (who was an incarnation of Indra himself). Gadhi had  Vishwamitra . Born a Kshatriya, he became a  Brahmarshi  (Sage).
He had a daughter named Satyavati, who married Rishi Richik. The book "Genealogical Tables" mentions this: "it is impossible that one woman could be the daughter of Gadhi, 15 generations from Brahma, and wife of Richik, who was only 3 descents down from the same god". (8).
Satyavati had son Rishi  Jamadagni  who married Renuka, the daughter of Rishi Renu.
Jamadagni had several sons such as Vasuman, the youngest one was  Parashurama . He emptied Prithvi (earth) from Kshatriyas 21 times.
Vishwamitra had 100 sons, 99 of whom are considered the mythylogical progenitors of the  Andhras .
[ edit ] Ayu Vansh Pururava's son was Ayu (36,000 yrs) - he was a devotee of  Vishnu . Ayu had 5 sons
Kshatravriddh
Raji
Rambh
Anena
Nahush
[ edit ] Ayu Line 1 - Kshatravriddh Vansha Kshatravriddh's son Suhotra, had three sons
Kashya
Kush
Grihatsmad
[ edit ] Pururva - Ayu - Kshatravriddh - Kashya Vansa Kashya's son was Kashi, who ruled from the city of  Kashi  off the  Ganges River  (India)
Kashi's son was Rashtra
Rashtra's son was Dirghtama
Dirghtamaa's son was  Dhanvantari . Dhanvantari started  Ayur Veda . He takes his share in Yagya and is the Ansh of  Vasudeva .
Dhanvantari's son was Ketuman
Ketuman's son was Bheemarath
Bheemarath's son was Divodas
Divodas' son was Dyuman - his other names are Pratardan, Shatrujit, Vats, Ritdhwaj and Kuvalayaksh.
Dyuman's sons were Alark and others - Alark ruled for 66,000 years.
Alark's son was Santati
Santati's son was Suneeth
Suneeth's son was Suketan
Suketan's son was Dharmaketu
Dharmketu's son was Satyaketu
Satyaketu's son was Dhrishtaketu
Dhrishtketu's son was Sukumar
Sukumar's son was Veetihotra
Veetihotra's son was Bharg
Bharg's son was Bhargabhumi.
[ edit ] Pururva - Ayu - Kshatravriddh - Kush Vansha Kush had Prati
Prati's son was  Sanjay
Sanjay's son was Jaya
Jaya's son was Krit
Krit's son was Haryavan
Haryavan's son was Sahadev
Sahadev's son was Heen
Heen's son was Jayasena
Jayasen's son was Sankriti
Sankriti's son was Jaya
latthar rajput
[ edit ] Pururva - Ayu - Kshatravriddh - Grihatsmad Vansh Grihatsmad's son was Shunak
Shunak's son was Shaunakji. This Shaunak is the same person acknowledged in the Rig Veda.
[ edit ] Ayu Line 2 - by Anena Anena's son was Shuddh
Shuddh's son was Shuchi
Shuchi's son was Trikud
Trikud's son was Dharmsarathi
Dharmsarathi's son was Shantiraya - Shantiraya was a knower of the soul so he did not have any child.
[ edit ] Ayu Line 3 - by Rambh Rambh's son was Rabhas
Rabhas' son was Gambheer
Gambheer's his son was Akriya. Akriya's wife started  Brahman Vansh .
[ edit ] Ayu Line 4 - by Raji Raji had 500 sons. All were killed by  Indra . [ edit ] Ayu Line 5 - by Nahush Ayu's son was Nahush. He attained Indra's status and ruled the three worlds. Later he became a python because of Durvasa'a curse (In MBH he became python because of  Agastya  Muni's curse).
Nahusha  had 6 sons
Yati
Yayati
Sanyati
Ayati
Viyati
Kriti
[ edit ] Nahush's son Yayati's vansha Nahusha's son was Yayati.
Yayati  had five sons. Three of them were the rulers of Mlechchh Desh (Their detailed description is available in the early chapters of Matsya Purana .) The other two became  Arya . Among all the sons, the eldest son was  Yadu  and the youngest son was  Puru .
[ edit ] Nahush -> Yayati -> Puru's Vansha Puru, though younger was crowned a king (since he gave his youth to his father Yayati)
Puru's son was Janamejaya.
Janamejaya's son was Prachinvan
Prachinvan's son was Praveer
Praveer's son was Namasyu
Namasyu's son was Sudyu
Sudyu's son was Bahugav
Bahugav's son was Sanyati
Sanyati's son was Ahanyati
Ahanyati's son was Raudrashwa
Raudrashwa had 10 sons from Ghritachi Apsara
Riteyu, who had Rantibhar
Kuksheyu
Sthandileyu
Kriteyu
Jaleyu
Santateyu
Dharmeyu
Satyeyu
Vriteyu
Vaneyu
Rantibhar had three sons:
Sumati
Dhruv
Apratirath.
Apratirath's son was Kanva and his son was  Medhatithi  who produced Prasakanv Brahman. There was a Medhathithi, supposedly born in 850 AD, who wrote a commentary on  Manusmrithi   (are they the same person?)  (9). Kanva's adopted daughter was  Shakuntala , who married  Dushyant . Their son was Bharat.
Bharat's son was Bharadwaj (Bharadwaj branched off as a brahmin)
Bharadwaj 's son was Manyu
Manyu had five sons
Brihatkshatra
Jaya
Mahavirya
Nar
Garg  (branched off as a brahmin)
Mahavirya's son was Duritkshaya.
Duritkshaya had three sons
Trayaruni
Kavi
Pushkararuni.
All three, Trayaruni, Kavi and Pushkararuni became brahmins. Nar's son was Sankriti
Sankriti had two sons Guru
Rantidev
Garg 's son was Shini
Shini's son was  Gargya .
Brihatkshatra's son was Hasti, who inhabited Hastinapur.
Hasti had three sons Ajameedh
Dwimeedh
Purumeedh
[ edit ] Hasti Line 1 Ajameedh Ajameedh's sons including Priyamedha became  Brahmins . Among them one was Brihdishu.
Ajameedh's second wife's name was Nalini. She gave birth to Neel.
[ edit ] Hasti -> Ajameedh Line 1-> Priyameedh (brahmin line) Brihdishu's son was Brihatkaya
Brihatkaya's son was Jayadrath
Jayadrath's son was Vishad
Vishad's son was Senjit
Senjit had four sons
Ruchirashwa
Dridhanu
Kashya
Vats  Vatsa
Ruchirashwa's son was Par
Par had two sons
Prithusen
Neep
Neep had 100 sons plus a son Brahmdat - from Chayashuk's daughter Kritwee. He was a Yogi.
Brahmdat's son was Vishwaksena from his wife Saraswati. Vishwaksen wrote Yog Shastra
Vishwaksen's son was Udakswan
Udakswan's son was Bhalad.
[ edit ] Hasti -> Ajameedh Line 2-> Neel Neel's son was Shanti
Shanti's son was Sushanti
Sushanti's son was Puruj
Puruj's son was Ark
Ark's son was Bharmyashwa
Bharmyashwa had five sons
Mudgal (branched off as a brahmin)
Yavenar
Brihdishu
Kampilya
Sanjay. Bharmyashwa said, "My all these five sons are worthy to rule five countries (Panch Alam), therefore they were known as Panchal. Among them Mudgal started Maudgalya  Brahmin  Gotra.
[ edit ] Hasti Line 2 Dwimeedh Dwimeedh's son was Yaveenar
Yavenar's son was Kritiman
Kritiman's son was Satyadhriti
Satyadhriti's son was Dridhnemi
Dridhnemi's son was Suparshwa
Suparshwa's son was Sumati
Sumati's son was Sanatiman
Sanatiman's son was Kriti. Kriti attained the knowledge of Yog from Hiranynabh and authored six Sanhitas of Prachyasam Richa (stanzas).
Kriti's son was Neep
Neep's son was Ugrayudh
Ugrayudh's son was Kshemya
Kshemya's son was Suvir
Suvir's son was Ripunjay
Ripunjaya's son was Bahurath.
[ edit ] Hasti Line 3 Purumeedh - No child No Child [ edit ] Another version Pratapendra (supposedly ruled for 10,000 years)
Pratapendra's son was Mandaleek
Mandaleek's son was Vijayendra
Vijayendra's son was Dhanurdeept
Shakrahotra came again on Earth at the order of  Indra  along with Ghritachi Apsara. He defeated Dhanurdeept and ruled Earth. *Shakrahotra's son was Hasti and ruled from Ghritachi for 10,000 years. Hasti rode the son of Airavat elephant and built a city named
Hastinapur
in his name. This city was 10 Yojanas long and situated on the bank of Swarganga.
*Hasti's son was Ajmeedh.
*Ajmeedh's son was Rakshpal
*Rakshpal's son was Sushamyarn
*Sushamyarn's son was Kuru. He went to heaven
swarga loka
with his physical body because of a boon from Indra.
[ edit ] Kuru Vansha After the second leg of Dwapara yuga was over, Sukeshi came to Earth and married Kuru. He built Kurukshetra, which was 20 Yojanas long.It is the most popular and powerful dynasty in the history of world. Kuru (supposedly ruled for 12,000 yrs)
Kuru's son was Jahnu
Jahnu's son was Surath
Surath's son was Vidoorath
Vidoorath's son was Sarvbhaum
Sarvbhaum's son was Jayasen
Jayasen's son was Arnav (ruled for 12,000 yrs) who spread his kingdom to the four seas.
Arnav's son was Ayutayu (ruled for 10,000)
Ayutayu's son was Akrodhan
Akrodhan's son was Riksh
Riksh's son was Bheemsen
Bheemsen's son was Dileep
Dileep's son was Prateep (ruled for 5,000 yrs)
Prateep's son was Shantanu (ruled for 1,000 yrs)
Shantanu's son was Vichitraveerya (ruled for 200 yrs) Shantanu's eldest born was  Bhishma  but he took an oath to not rule and let his younger brother rule.
Vichitraveerya's son was Pandu (ruled for 500 yrs)
Pandu's son was Yudhishthir (ruled for 50 yrs).
Duryodhan (Dhritrashtra's son) ruled for 60 years and was killed by Yudhishthir's brother  Bheemsen  in  Kurukshetra .
In ancient times, Daityas were also killed in a huge number by Devas. All Daityas were reborn in Shantanu's kingdom. Destroyed by Duryodhan's army, Prithvi went to Indra and then Hari (Krishna), who took  Avatar  (Incarnation) in Vasudev and Devaki's house. He lived on Prithvi for 135 years, then went to His Go Lok.* Note - Different  Puranas  tell different ages of Krishna, especially Mahabharat, Bhagvat, Harivansh, Vishnu, Brahma Vaivart and Garg Sanhita also describe His life in detail. Most books tell His age as 125 years. Krishna's avatar was in the end of fourth leg of Dwapar Yuga.
[ edit ] After Yudhishthir Abhimanyu 's son was Pareekshit
Parikshit 's son was  Janamejaya
Janamejaya's son was Shatanek
Shatanek's son was Yagyadat (Sahastranek)
Yagyadat's son was Nishchakra. During his rule, Ganges flowed away from Hastinapur, therefore he made Kaushambi which was 4 Yojan long and west to Prayag, as his capital. [Vishnu Purana, 4/15]
Nishchakra's son was Ushtrapal (Ushtrapal)
Ushtrapal's son was Chitrarath
Chitrarath's son was Dhritiman
Dhritiman's son was Sushen
Sushen's son was Sunith
Sunith's son was Makhpal
Makhpal's son was Chakshu
Chakshu's son was Sukhvant (Sukhaval)
Sukhvant's son was Pariplav
Pariplav's son was Sunaya
Sunaya's son was Medhavi
Medhavi's son was Nripanjaya
Nripanjaya's son was Madu
Madu's son was Tigmjyoti
Tigmjyoti's son was Brihdrath
Brihdrath's son was Vasudan
Vasudan's son was Shatanek
Shatanek's son was Udayan
Udayan's son was Ahenar
Ahenar's son was Niramitra
Niramitra's son was Kshemak
Kshemak abandoned his kingdom and went to Kalapgram. He was killed by Mlechchhs. By the grace of Narad he had a son named Pradyot. Prodyot did Mlechchh Yagya in which many Mlechchhs were killed.
[ edit ] Vrishni Vansha At that time, in Satwat Vansh, there was the king named Vrishni who ruled for 5,000 yrs because of a boon from  Vishnu . Vrishni's son was Niravritti (5,000 yrs)
Niravritti's son was Dashari (5,000 yrs)
Dashari's son was Viyamun (5,000 yrs)
Viyamun's son was Jeemoot (5,000 yrs)
Jeemoot's son was Vikriti (5,000 yrs)
Vikriti's son was Bheemarath (5,000 yrs)
Bheemarath's son was Navarath (5,000 yrs)
Navarath's son was Dasharath (5,000 yrs)
Dasharath's son was Shakuni (5,000 yrs)
Shakuni's son was Kushumbh (5,000 yrs)
Kushumbh's son was Devarath (5,000 yrs)
Devarath's son was Devkshatra (5,000 yrs)
Devkshatra's son was Madhu (5,000 yrs)
Madhu's son was Navarath (5,000 yrs)
Navarath's son was Kuruvats (5,000 yrs).
By this time, 5,000 × 16 = 80,000 years had passed. Kuruvats' son was Anurath (5,000 yrs)
Anurath's son was Puruhotra (5,000 yrs)
Puruhotra's son was Vichitrang (5,000 yrs)
Vichitrang's son was Satwatvan (5,000 yrs)
Satwatvan's son was Bhajman (5,000 yrs)
Bhajman's son was Vidoorath (5,000 yrs)
Vidoorath's son was Surbhakt (5,000 yrs)
Surbhakt's son was Sumana (5,000 yrs).
By this time, 5,000 × 8 = 40,000 years had passed. Sumana's son was Tatikshetra
Tatikshetra's son was Swayambhuv
Swayambhuv's son was Harideepak
Harideepak's son was Devmedha
Devmedha's son was Surpal—The Second leg of Treta Yug ended here.
[ edit ] Nahush -> Yayati -> Yadu's Vansha Yadu - had four sons
|
-------------------------------------
|
|
|
|
Sahasrajit
Kroshtu
Nala
Raghu
|
Śatajit
------------------
|
|
|
Haihaya, Veńu and Haya.
|
Dharmanetra
|
Kuntí
|
Sáhanji
|
Mahishmat
|
Bhadrasena
|
Durdama
|
Dhanaka
-----------------------------------
|
|
|
|
Kritavíryya, Kritágni, Kritavarman, Kritaujas.
Kritavíryya's son was Arjuna ( Kartavirya_Arjuna ), the sovereign of the seven Dwípas, the lord of a thousand arms. This prince propitiated the sage Dattátreya, the descendant of Atri, who was a portion of Vishńu, and solicited and obtained from him these boons—a thousand arms; never acting unjustly; subjugation of the world by justice, and protecting it equitably; victory over his enemies; and death by the hands of a person renowned in the three regions of the universe. With these means he ruled over the whole earth with might and justice, and offered ten thousand sacrifices. At the expiration of his long reign Kártavírya was killed by  Parashurama  who was an embodied portion of the mighty Náráyańa (11).
Of the hundred sons of this king Arjuna the five principal were: Śúra, Śúrasena, Vrishańa, Madhu, and Jayadhwaja.
The son of the Jayadhwaja was Tálajangha, who had a hundred sons, called after him Tálajanghas: the eldest of these was Vítihotra; another was Bharata, who had two sons, Vrisha and Sujátí. The son of Vrisha was Madhu ; he had a hundred sons, the chief of whom was  Vrishni , and from him the family obtained the name of Vrishńi. From the name of their father, Madhu, they were also called Mádhavas; whilst from the denomination of their common ancestor Yadu , the whole were termed  Yadavas  (20). [ edit ] Yadu to Sanvaran Yadu 's other son was Kroshtu (60,000 yrs)
Kroshtu's son was Vrijinaghn (20,000 yrs)
Vrijinaghn's son was Swaharchan
Swaharchan's son was Chitrarth
Chitrarath's son was Arvind
Arvind's son was Shravas
Shravas' son was Tamas
Tamas' son was Ushan
Ushan's son was Sheetanshu
Sheetanshuk's son was Kamalanshu
Kamalanshu's son was Paravat
Paravat's son was Jyamagh
Jyamagh's son was Vidarbh
Vidarbh's son was Krath
Krath's son was Kuntibhoja, who married the daughter of Purudaitya who lived in Patal.
Kuntibhoj's son Vrishparva (10,000), was a great devotee of Devi. He ruled in Pratishthanpur ( Jhansi ) of Prayag.
Mayavidya's son was Janamejaya I
Janamejaya I's son was Prachinvan
Prachinvan's son was Praveer
Praveer's son was Nabhasya
Nabhasya's son was Bhavad
Bhavad's son was Sudyumn
Sudyumn's son was Bahugar
Bahugar's son was Sanyati
Sanyati's son was Dhanayati
Dhanayati's son was Aindrashwa
Aindrashwa's son was Rantinar
Rantinar's son was Sutapa
Sutapa's son was Sanvaran - he did  Tapas  for 100 years. Surya married his daughter Tapati to him.
Here ended Treta Yuga . Map of India during  Mahabharata . All four seas crossed their limits and presented a scene of  Pralaya . For two years, Prithvi (Earth) was under the sea. Then came storms with strong winds and the sea started to regress and Prithvi reappeared by the grace of Maharshi  Agastya . Within five years Prithvi grew all vegetations back and all the  Varnas  by the grace of  Surya , Sanvaran and Maharshi  Vashishtha came back to earth. Sanvaran came to Pratishthanpur (Jhansi) on Friday, Trayodashi (13th day) of Krishnapaksh of Bhadrapadmas.  Vishwakarma built a palace there which was 1/2 a Kos (1 and 1/2 miles) high. Sanvaran inhabited Pratishthanpur in the area of 5 Yojan or 20 Kos. Budhvanshi Prasenjit and  Yaduvanshi  (Yadav) Satwat Shoorsen became the rulers of Mathura. Mlechchhvanshi Shamshrupal (who has a beard) was the ruler of Marudesh ( Arabia ,  Iran ,  Iraq ). As the number of people grew, the number of kings also increased. Sanvaran ruled for 10,000 years.
Sanvaran's son was Archagya (10,000 yrs)
Archagya's son was Suryajapi (5,000 yrs)
Suryajapi's son was Suryayagya
Suryayagya's son was Adityavardhan
Adityavardhan's son was Dwadashatma
Dwadashatma's son was Divakar
Divakar's son was Prabhakar
Prabhakar's son was Bhaswadatma
Bhaswadatma's son was Vivaswaj
Vivaswaj's son was Haridashwarchan
Haridashwarchan's son was Vaikartan
Vaikartan's son was Arkeshtiman
Arkeshtiman's son was Martandvatsal
Martandvatsal's son was Mihirarth
Mihirarth's son was Arunposhan
Arunposhan's son was Dyumani
Dyumani's son was Taraniyagya
Taraniyafgya's son was Maitreshtivardhan
Maitreshtivardhan's son was Chitrabhanorjak
Chitrabhanorjak's son was Vairochan
Vairochan's son was Hansnyayi
Hansnyayi's son was Vedpravardhan
Vedpravardhan's son was Savitra
Savitra's son was Dhanapal
Dhanapal's son was Mlechchhanta
Mlechchh-hanta's son was Anandvardhan
Anandvardhan's son was Dharmpal
Dharmpal's son was Brahmbhakt
Brahmbhakt's son was Brahmeshtivardhan
Brahmaeshtivardhan's son was Atmprapojak
Aatmprapojak's son was Parameshthi
Parameshthi's son was Hairanyavardhan
Hairanyavardhan's son was Dhatrayaji
Dhatrayaji's son was Vidhatraprapojak
Vidhatraprapujak's son was Druhinkratu
Druhinkratu's son was Vairanchya
Vairanchya's son was Kamalasan
Kamalasan's son was Shamvarti
Shamvarti's son Shraddhdev
Shradhdev's son was Pitravardhan
Pitravardhan's son was Somdat
Somdat's son was Somvardhan
Somvardhan's son was Avatans
Avatans' son was Pratans
Pratans' son was Paratans
Paratans' son was Ayatans
Ayatans' son was Samatans
Samatans' son was Anutans
Anutans' son was Adhitans
Adhitans' son was Abhitans
Abhitans' son was Samuttans
Samuttans' son was Tans
Tans' son was  Dushyant
Dushyant's son was  Bharat  from his wife  Shakuntala  who ruled for 36,000 years.
Bharat was a great devotee of Surya Dev. He was a Chakravarti (noble) king.
Bharat's son was Mahabali (7)
Mahabali's son was Bharadwaj (was this Bharadwaj a rishi?)
Bharadwaj's son was Manyuman (18,000 yrs)
Manyuman's son was Brihatkshatra
Brihatkshatra's son was Suhotra
Suhotra's son was Veetihotra (10,000 yrs)
Veetihotra's son was Yagyahotra
Yagyahotra's son was Shakrahotra. Pleased with him,  Indra  gave him Swarg (heaven).
[ edit ] Jadon (Yadava) lineage Ancient Migration Route of  Yadavas Of the many branches of the Chandravansh line that has been briefly enumerated, the  Yadava  lineage is a major branch. This branch is an offshoot of the Bharatvansh which started with the eldest son of Yayati, Yadu. All his descendants are known as Yadavas  of Yaduvansh, meaning descendants of Yadu. Another son of Yayati,  Puru  started the Puruvansh who were the progenitors of the  Kuru  and  Pandava  line of Chandravanshi line of Kshatriyas. [ 3 ]  Based on the writings of  Puranas , the Itihaasa Mahabharata  and the  Raghuvamsa ,  Lord Krishna  was born into the Yadava branch and is considered an ancestor by  Yadav Kshatriyas . During the  Mahabharat , Chandravansh was only associated with Yadavas and  Shoorsainis   (explain how?) . The Bhati,  Chandela  who built  Khajuraho ) and Jadaun/Jadeja clans claim that they are Chandravansis. Several Indian castes such as the  Sainis  of Punjab [ 4 ] [ 5 ]  and contiguous regions, and the  Jats  of Mathura and Bharatpur, claim descent from the Yaduvanshi lineage. [ 3 ]  The  Yaduvanshis  (aka  Shoorsainis ), and the Seuna Yadavas  of  Devagiri [ 6 ]  claim descent from the  Hindu  God  Krishna . [ edit ] Major cities of Famous Chandravanshi Kings [ edit ] Rohtas Champapura in Bhagalpur was founded by Sahasra Arjuna, of the  Haihaya  tribe. This was Mahishmati on the Nerbudda, still existing in Maheswar. The rivalry between the Lunar race and that of the Suryas of Ayodhya, in whose aid the priesthood armed, and expelled Sahasra Arjuna from Mahishmati, has been mentioned. A small branch of these ancient Haihayas yet exist in the line of the Nerbudda, near the very top of the valley at Sohagpur, in Baghelkhand, aware of their ancient lineage ; and, though few in number, are still celebrated for their valour.* [ edit ] Dwarka Kusasthali Dwarka, the capital of Krishna, was founded prior to Prayag, to Surpur, or Mathura. The Bhagavat purana attributes the foundation of the city to  Anrita , the brother of Ikshwaku , of the Solar race, but states not how or when the Yadus became possessed thereof. [ 7 ] The ancient annals of the Jaisalmer family of the Yadu or Jadon stock give the priority of foundation to  Prayag , next to  Mathura , and last to Dwarka . All these cities are too well known to require description ; especially Prayag, at the confluence of the Yamuna and Ganges. The Prasioi were the descendants of Puru's of Prayag, visited by Megasthenes, ambassador of Seleucus, and the principal city of the Yadus, ere it sent forth the four branches from Satwata. At Prayag resided the celebrated Bharat, the son of Sakuntala. [ edit ] Surpur We are assured by Alexander's historians that the country and people round Mathura, when he invaded India, were termed Surasenoi. There are two princes of the name of Sursen in the immediate ancestry of Krishna ; one his grandfather, the other eight generations anterior Which of these founded the capital Surpur,1 whence the country and inhabitants had their appellation, we cannot say Mathura and Cleisobara are mentioned by the historians of Alexander as the chief cities of the Surasenoi. Though the Greeks sadly disfigure names, we cannot trace any affinity between Cleisobara and Surpur. [ edit ] Hastinapur The city of  Hastinapur  was built by  Hastin  a name celebrated in the Lunar dynasties. The name of this city is still preserved on the Ganges, about forty miles south of Hardwar where the Ganges breaks through the  Shiwalik  mountains and enters the plains of India. This mighty stream, rolling its masses of waters from the glaciers of the Himalaya, and joined by many auxiliary streams, frequently carries destruction before it. In one night a column of thirty feet in perpendicular height has been known to bear away all within its sweep, and to such an occurrence the capital of Hastin is said to have owed its ruin. Hastin sent forth three grand branches,  Ajamidha, Dvimidha, and Purumidha . Of the two last we lose sight altogether ; but Ajamidha's progeny spread over all the northern parts of India, in the Panjab and across the Indus. The period, probably one thousand six hundred years before Christ. [ edit ] Panchala From Ajamidha in the fourth generation, was Bajaswa, who obtained possessions towards the Indus, and whose five sons gave their name, Panchala, to the Panjab, or space watered by the five rivers. The capital founded by the younger brother, Kampila, was named Kampilnagara.* The descendants of Ajamidha by his second wife, Kesini, founded another kingdom and dynasty, celebrated in the heroic history of Northern India. This is the Kausika dynasty. [ edit ] Kannauj Kusha had four sons, two of whom, Kushanabha and Kushambha, are well known to traditional history, and by the still surviving cities founded by them. Kushanabha founded the city of Mahodaya on the Ganges, afterwards changed to Kanyakubja, or Kanauj, which maintained its celebrity until the Muhammadan invasion of Shihabu-d-din (a.d. 1193), when this overgrown city was laid prostrate for ever. It was not unfrequently called Gadhipura, or the ' city of Gadhi.' Kusamba also founded a city, called after his own name - Kausambi. The other sons built two capitals, Dharmaranya and Vasumati. [ edit ] Rajgriha and Hastinapur Kuru had two sons, Sudhanush and Parikhshit. The descendants of the former terminated with Jarasandha, whose capital was Rajagriha (the modern Rajmahal) on the Ganges, in the province of Bihar.
From Parikhshita descended the monarchs Santanu and Balaka : the first producing the rivals of the Great War, Yudhishthira and Duryodhana ; the other the Balakaputras.
Duryodhana, the successor to the throne of Kuru. resided at the ancient capital, Hastinapura; while the junior branch, Yudhishthira, founded Indraprastha, on the Yamuna or Jumna, which name in the eighth century was changed to Delhi.
The sons of Balaka founded two kingdoms : Palibothra, on the lower Ganges; and Aror on the eastern bank of the Indus, founded by Sahl. Aror, or Alor, was the capital of Sind in remote antiquity : a bridge over the stream which branched from the Indus, near Dara, is almost the sole vestige of this capital of the Sogdoi of Alexander
[ edit ] Uru or Turvasu lineage Kingdoms One great arm of the tree of Yayati remains unnoticed, that of Uru or Urvasu, written by others Turvasu. Uru was the father of a line of kings who founded several empires. Virupa, the eighth prince from Uru, had eight sons, two of whom are particularly mentioned as sending forth two grand shoots, Druhyu and Bhabru. From Druhyu a dynasty was established in the north. Aradwat, with his son Gandhara, is stated to have founded a State : Prachetas is said to have become king of Mlecchhades, or the barbarous regions. This line terminated with Dushyanta, the husband of the celebrated Sakuntala, father of Bharat, and who, labouring under the displeasure of some offended deity, is said by the Hindus to have been the cause of all the woes which subsequently befell the race. The four grandsons of Dushyanta, Kalanjar, Keral, Pand, and Chaul, gave their names to countries.
[ edit ] Kalanjar Kalanjar is the celebrated fortress in Bundelkhand, so well known for its antiquities, which have claimed considerable notice. [ edit ] Kerala Of the second, Kerala, it is only known that in the list of the thirty-six royal races in the twelfth century, the Kerala makes one, but the capital is unknown. [ edit ] Pandya The kingdom founded by Pand may be that on the coast of Malabar, the Pandu-Mandal of the Hindus, the Regia Pandiona of the geographers of the west, and of which, probably,  Madurai  is the modern capital. [ edit ] Chaul Chaul is in the Saurashtra peninsula, and on the coast, towards Jagat Khunt,' the world's end,' and still retains its appellation [ edit ] Angades Anga.—The other shoot from Bhabru became celebrated. The thirty-fourth prince, Anga, founded the kingdom of Angadesa, of which. Champapuri was the capital, established about the same tune with Kanauj, probably fifteen hundred years before Christ. With him the patronymic was changed, and the Anga race became famous in ancient Hindu history ; and to this day Angdes still designates the Alpine regions of Tibet bordering on Chinese Tartary. Prithvisena terminates the line of Anga; and as he survived the disasters of the Mahabharata War, his race probably multiplied in those regions, where caste appears never to have been introduced. [ edit ] See also Pal-Pali
Puru
Ahir
Aheer
Harral
Varma
Jadhav / Jatav
Rawal Jaisal
Jaisalmer
Bharatpur, India
List of Dhangar clans in India
Bhati
Gawli
Yadu
Ahirwar / Aharwar
Kshatriyas
Martial Races
Rajput Clans
[ edit ] References ^  Chandravansh - Treta Yug, 2nd Leg
^  Bhavishya Purana, 3-Pratisarg, p 274-275
^  a   b   http://www.answers.com/topic/kshatriya#Chandravanshi
^  ^ a b People of India: Haryana, pp 430, Kumar Suresh Singh, Madan Lal Sharma, A. K. Bhatia, Anthropological Survey of India, Published by Published on behalf of Anthropological Survey of India by Manohar Publishers, 1994
^  ^ a b "In the Punjab in the sub- mountainous region the community came to be known as 'Saini'. It maintained its Rajput character despite migration." Castes and Tribes of Rajasthan, pp108, Sukhvir Singh Gahlot, Banshi Dhar, Jain Brothers, 1989
^  Robin James Moore.  Tradition and Politics in South Asia . 1979. Vikas Publishing House.
^  Col. James Todd, Annals and Antiquities of Rajasthan, Vol I, Chapter 4
(7) Bhavishya Purana, by B.K. Chaturvedi, page 60. (8) Genealogical tables of the deities, princes, heroes, and remarkable personages, of the Hindus, with an intr. and index, by F. Hamilton, page 111. (9) Encyclopaedia of Hinduism, Volume 7, By N.K. Singh, page 77.
Posted by
BHATIA COMMUNITY MISSION FOUNDATION/www.bhatiacommunity.org
at
11:12 PM
No comments:
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share to Pinterest
Older Posts
Home
Subscribe to:
Posts (Atom)
Loading...
Followers
Blog Archive
►
2010
(5)
►
July
(5)
►
Jul 03
(4)
►
Jul 28
(1)
▼
2011
(1)
▼
January
(1)
▼
Jan 06
(1)
LOARD SHREEKRISHNA RUKSHMANIJI - Lunar Dynasty
About Me
BHATIA COMMUNITY MISSION FOUNDATION/www.bhatiacommunity.org
We are a family, not an organization, so, every page is shown with full biographies (If applicable), dates of birth/death and photos, to show you all who YOU'RE family really is. See your relatives, and have a look at you're history, you're present and you're future. I have been told that 'Genealogy is more than digging for personal roots. It involves looking into the history of the eras during which our relatives lived, as well as sharing that information with other researchers.'My thanks to all of my internet friends and cousins who have given me encouragement and have been willing to share their information with me. I hope those who visit my site will learn and enjoy the history of my family. This is a 'living' site so it will be updated and amended quite frequently. Photo's will be added in time so check back often if you have an interest in any of my ancestors. Also copies of certificates and censuses will be added in due course. Please feel free to sign my guest book. - Dr.Pravin Gopaldas Purecha E-mail us at bhatiacommunity@gmail.com or drpravinpurecha@gmail.com.
View my complete profile
© Copyright 2010, Bhatia Community Mission Foundation's Encyclopedia. (Discovery Vision) - ( The fr. Ethereal template. Powered by
Blogger .