DNA Tests Prove that Shrunken Heads are Real | Indiana Jen
Indiana Jen
Education & Technology (and some History)
Menu
Skip to content
Home About Me My Podcasts My Resume and Portfolio Suggest Content
DNA Tests Prove that Shrunken Heads are Real
Leave a reply
Shrunken Heads
have been one of the long debated phenomena of Anthropology. People have long questioned whether or not they were legitimate relics of head hunting practices or elaborate hoaxes. Shrunken Heads have long been reported as the gruesome trophies of head hunting tribes in Asia, the Pacific Islands, and South America (as well as in Europe, but in far more distant past). The last documented cases of Head Hunting took place in Papua New Guinea. Although long band, the outbreak of
Kuru , a degenerative nerve disorder transmitted through human tissue, put that the last nails in the metaphorical coffin.
Although Head Hunting is well documented, the process of ‘shrinking heads’ was strongly guarded by the natives who performed the rituals and process of ‘head shrinking.’ New evidence presented by  Gila Kahila Bar-Galm Ph.D.
and her colleagues have demonstrated, through extensive DNA evidence, that a remarkably well preserved human shrunken head is indeed authentic (most shrunken heads, estimated at 80%) are fakes.
Read more about the process and the authentication of the remains in this
MSNBC
article or in this piece at
Discovery News .
Share this: Email Print Pocket Share on Tumblr Like this: Like
Loading...
Related
This entry was posted in
Anthropology
and tagged
Anthropology ,
Cultural Anthropology ,
DNA ,
Head Hunting ,
Shrunken Head
on
June 14, 2011
by
Jennifer Carey .
Post navigation
←
Steven Sidebotham’s “Spectacular” Egyptian Site
Macedonia Continues Plans to Erect Alexander Statue In Spite of Protests from Greece
→
Leave a Reply
Cancel reply
Enter your comment here...
Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:
Email
(required)
(Address never made public)
Name
(required)
Website
You are commenting using your WordPress.com account.
(  Log Out  /  Change  )
You are commenting using your Twitter account.
(  Log Out  /  Change  )
You are commenting using your Facebook account.
(  Log Out  /  Change  )
You are commenting using your Google+ account.
(  Log Out  /  Change  )
Cancel
Connecting to %s
Notify me of new comments via email.
Notify me of new posts via email.
Search for:
Enter your email address to follow this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Join 8,274 other followers
2015 Honor Roll: EdTech Blogs
Bam Radio Top 100 Voices
Top Posts & Pages
Why 1950s America was *Not* Magical!!
Women Warriors - A History of Real Women in Combat
10 Things Every Teacher Should be able to do on Google Docs
5 Tips for Classroom Management with Mobile Devices
The Importance of Teaching Students Public Speaking Skills
Latest Tweets
A Farewell to Chromebooks As We Know Them
thegooru.com/a-farewell-to-…
#edtech
#gafe
2 days ago
Jim Crow-Era Travel Guides for Black Families Now Online Through Schomburg via @ Dnainfo
dnain.fo/1R8w25K
#sschat
2 days ago
Digital Citizenship: Resource Roundup | Edutopia
bit.ly/1x1ZQ9X
via @ edutopia
#edtech
#digcit
4 days ago
Follow @TeacherJenCarey
The Twenty Twelve Theme .			 Blog at WordPress.com .
Follow
Follow “Indiana Jen”
Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.
Join 8,274 other followers
Build a website with WordPress.com
Send to Email Address
Your Name
Your Email Address
Cancel
Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
%d
bloggers like this: