"7 High" Chapter 1 "Gateway to the Air Force"
“7 High”
Recollections of a Combat Defense Squadron “Ramp Rat”
Chapter 1
“Gateway to the Air Force”
The
King                                The Kid
March
5, 1960, Elvis Presley had returned home from Germany  and was discharged today
from the United States Army.  The King of Rock and Roll had gotten himself
drafted and served his hitch in the US Army.  I was a Central Valley High School senior, in Spokane, Washington USA, looking ahead to the future.  Cannon fodder to
step in for the King.
Back
then, every young man had the Selective Service System, Commanded by General
Hershey, to look forward to.  This was popularly known as “the Draft”, and was
mandatory for all US young men.
Looking
back, from a distance of fifty years, I think national service was a good
thing.  The loud protests that brought the Vietnam War to an end were because
young people were vested enough in our nation to care.  Just the other day I
heard someone on the radio say that if we still had the selective service
system there would have been no wars in Iraq and Afghanistan.
Although
I wasn’t drafted, I would never have enlisted, if there had been no national
service requirement.  It wasn’t considered onerous, but was merely a part of
growing up, one of the rites of manhood.  It was a common bond shared by all
citizens, even celebrities as big as Elvis.
Since
both sides of my family had Air Force connections, it was an easy decision for
me.  As Elvis was getting out, in the spring of 1960, my friend, Dave and I
took the application tests and were accepted into the Air Force with enlistment
to begin in September.
The
Air Force recruiter was willing to take me on as a photographer; all I had to
do was pass another test after joining up.
May 1
– A Soviet missile shoots down an American
Lockheed U2
spy plane; the pilot
Francis Gary Powers
is captured
My
senior year had been my first year at Central Valley. I signed up for Miss
Carrabba’s Photography Class because it was something I was already familiar
with, an easy grade.  Having learned photography years before, at the hands of
the master, George Knight.
George
Knight was a local institution on Broadway in Spokane, occasionally even
getting a photograph into the newspaper.  He had been a photographer in the
Army, and was heavy duty to the point of formulating his own processing
solutions, and not from some Eastman premix.
I
had my own darkroom setup, but the Central Valley school darkroom was very
nice.  The school was only a year old, and had much better equipment.  In
photography class I listened to Miss Carrabba’s war stories of aerial
photography in the Air Force and was hooked for sure.
Since
I had read the entire textbook before the first class, I was a shoo in for the
job of photographer for school events, for the newspaper and annual.   This is
my annual photo.
As
school photographer there were many chances to get out of classes to cover
various functions.
September
30, 1959, I had barely started at Central Valley when I was given the assignment
was to ride downtown in a carload of cheerleaders, and/or “Bearettes”,  to
photograph Ronald Reagan.  Miss Carrabba gave me the press camera, three number
five flashbulbs and two double sided film packs and told me to go with a
carload of girls to intercept Mr. Reagan, who was coming into town from the Spokane airport at Geiger Field.
I
found it difficult to concentrate on the assignment, and wasted two flashbulbs
in the car, and ruined my last remaining film sheet in the Ridpath Hotel.  I
was lucky to get any pictures at all.  For this shot I was most embarrassed to
sit on a young lady’s lap.
Ronald
Reagan was then starring hosting “GE Theater” on Television. He was passing
through Spokane on his way to Hanford to make a speech for the General Electric
Father/Daughter banquet on October 1, 1960.
May 16,
1960
–
Nikita Khrushchev
demands an apology from U.S.
President
Dwight D. Eisenhower
for
U-2
spy plane flights
over the
Soviet
Union , thus ending the 1960 Paris summit.
Graduating
from Central Valley High School in Spokane that June, I headed for Priest Lake with the J class hydroplane that I had spent the winter rebuilding in a very
cold shed.   Learning that my new hydro would only turn in one direction, I
crashed into a dock and spent many hours in the loft above Bishop’s Marina fashioning a fiberglass patch on the crushed sponson.
Just like this, only
different.
After repairs, the boat would take on water
at slow speeds.  The method I employed all summer, was to start the engine
while standing on the dock, jump in and punch it.  As long as the boat was in a
plane, everything was fine.  As long as the engine ran fine, which was seldom,
everything was OK.  But, if anything went wrong, the sponsons would fill with
water and then it took two people to pull the boat up onto a dock to drain.  I
drilled holes in the rear of the sponsons and kept them plugged with thermos
bottle stoppers.
It
was possible, but dangerous, to pull these plugs while at speed.  The water
would drain, but to do a good job you needed to increase the angle of attack.
This is where it got tricky, especially if you were carrying a passenger.  It
was not uncommon that summer to travel with a young lady on the front deck.
Priest Lake , Idaho
That summer, the news was full of the U-2 incident, and the capture of pilot
Francis Gary Powers by the Soviet Union.  Nikita Kruschev was enraged, and we
could see ugly photographs of him scowling out at us from the Spokesman Review
newspaper racks in front of the Leonard Paul Store, and the magazines, too.
July
1, 1960, the Soviets shot down one of our RB-47’s over the Barents Sea.  It was
a big international incident, and was a long way from Priest Lake Idaho.  If
you had told me that I would find myself humping around one of these same
RB-47s I wouldn’t have had any clue as to what you were talking about.
July 1
– A
Soviet
MiG
fighter
north of
Murmansk
in the
Barents
Sea
shoots down a 6-man
RB-47 .
Two
United States Air Force
officers survive
and are imprisoned in
Moscow 's dreaded
Lubyanka
prison .
July 13
– U.S. Senator
John F. Kennedy
is nominated for President at the
Democratic National Convention
in
Los Angeles, California .
July 25 –28
– In
Chicago ,
the
Republican National Convention
nominates U.S. Vice President
Richard
M. Nixon
for President and
Henry Cabot Lodge, Jr.
for Vice President.
While
these were just newspaper stories to us, world tensions continued to increase.
Gary Powers was sentenced to ten years in prison for espionage by the USSR.  Fidel Castro’s revolution in Cuba continued to anger the US by nationalizing all foreign
owned property in response to our embargo.
August 6
–
Cuban Revolution : In response to a
United States embargo against Cuba ,
Fidel Castro nationalizes American and foreign-owned property in the nation.
August
19
–
Cold
War : In
Moscow ,
downed American
U-2
pilot
Francis Gary Powers
is sentenced to 10 years
imprisonment by the
Soviet Union
for
espionage .
In
the southern United States, segregation was being challenged.  From the
perspective of a WASP kid in the Pacific Northwest, this might as well have
been happening on another planet.  The only segregation that I had ever seen
was the unused restroom at the Union Pacific depot in Spokane marked for
colored.  I had ventured to check it out while waiting for a train and found
that it was used only for the storage of mops and buckets.
September
12, 1960, none of this stuff was at the top of my brain when I was processed
into in the Air Force at Spokane, WA.  My mother dropped me off at the
recruiting station in the Coeur d’Alene Hotel in Spokane.  I was shocked to see
that she was crying.  This made me think that maybe this was serious.
I
had already taken the aptitude tests, but now they did the physical.  They
really did have a whole bunch of us get naked, line up and bend over, etc.  I
remember signing a long paper indicating that I had never been affiliated with
an extensive list of organizations that I never had any idea existed.  We then
were sworn in as a group.
Some
of the group was going into the Army and were heading for Fort Ord by bus.
Dave
Wirth, from my class at CV, was the only familiar face.  There were another
three guys from Wenatchee, and one from Whitman County, going into the Air
Force, and headed for Lackland Air Force Base, San Antonio, Texas, “The Gateway
to the Air Force”.  We had no clue.
The
six of us Air Force enlistees were bussed to Geiger Field, Spokane
International, to be flown on commercial transportation to San Antonio, TX.  On our orders it said, “airflight jet Surcharge Dallas to San Antonio via Braniff Air
Lines, auth”.  That sounded good.
What
a great trip it was.  My first airliner flight, and it was fantastic.  Even
better, it turned out to be the milk run, with lots of short flights.  Our
first hop was on
Northwest
Orient Airlines
to Pendleton, Oregon, on a
Douglas DC-6 .  What a
great takeoff roar!  The service was wonderful, with beautiful stewardesses.
They fed us, with real silverware, and good food.  The cute salt and pepper
shakers were complimentary, as were the cigarettes.
http://www.aerodacious.com/ccCAM009.HTM
Flying
was a lot more fun, back in the day.  Take off and landings, with those four
huge roaring engines turning propellers, were exciting.  I remember thinking
that this Air Force business was going to be all right.  Just this trip alone
was going to be worth the price of the first four years.  Not every leg was
wonderful though.  Coming out of Salt Lake City, the plane was crowded and hot,
with rough weather, crying babies and airsick passengers.
We
had to wait in Amarillo for a connection, and spotted the biggest bug I had
seen in my young life, right there in the airport.  Leaving Amarillo, on
Braniff
Airlines , we were practically the only passengers on the plane.  Some of
the fellows were soon in the back playing cards with the stewardesses, who were
even better looking than those on Northwest.  It was great feeling, when one of
them asked me if I was in the Air Force.  No one had ever asked me that before,
especially, a gorgeous stewardess.
As
we were flying over Texas at dawn, I was looking out the window.  Watching the
sun come up with gritty eyes, I could see a square piece of land with a puddle
in it, then another square with a puddle, next to another square with a puddle,
on and on forever.  It looked terribly barren to a northwest kid.  This was my
first time to Texas, watching the puddles pass below and listening to those big
engines droning into the dawn.
From
Dallas to San Antonio we were among the first to fly on Braniff’s new
Boeing 707 .  Talk about
lucky.  There was a crowd of people at the airport to see the new jet airliner.
The news media was there, and we could see a huge tv camera and operator mounted
on top of a van.  There must have been celebrities present.
We
couldn’t believe that they were going to let us fly on this airplane.  The 220
was the hottest version of the 707.  It was even more amazing that the Air
Force had paid an extra surcharge for the flight.  We might not have been so
enthusiastic had we known the history of Brannif’s 707 deliveries.
This
couldn’t have been the first 707 delivered to Branniff, because they had
crashed that one before getting it home.
On October 19, 1959, A Boeing 707-227
crashed northeast of
Arlington, Washington
while on a test flight
for
Braniff International Airways . Four
people were killed in the crash, and four survived. [26]
The 707-220
was designed for
hot and high
operations with powerful
Pratt & Whitney JT4 A-3 turbojets, only
five of these were produced, however only four were ultimately delivered with
one being lost during a test flight. All were for
Braniff International Airways
and
carried the model number 707-227. This version was made obsolete by the arrival
of the turbofan-powered 707-120B.
The 707
wings are swept back at 35 degrees and, like all swept-wing aircraft, displayed
an undesirable " Dutch roll " flying characteristic which manifested
itself as an alternating yawing and rolling motion. Boeing already had
considerable experience with this on the
B-47
and
B-52 , and had developed the
yaw damper
system on the B-47 that would be applied to later
swept wing
configurations like the 707. However, many new 707 pilots had no experience
with this phenomenon as they were transitioning from straight-wing propeller
driven aircraft such as the
Douglas DC-7
and
Lockheed Constellation .
On one
customer acceptance flight, where the yaw damper was turned off to familiarize
the new pilots with flying techniques, a trainee pilots' actions violently
exacerbated the Dutch Roll motion and caused three of the four engines to be
torn from the wings. The plane, a brand new 707-227 N7071 destined for Braniff,
crash landed on a river bed north of
Seattle
at
Arlington, Washington , killing four of the
eight occupants. [15]
In his
autobiography,
test pilot
Tex
Johnston
described a Dutch Roll incident he experienced as a passenger on
an early commercial 707 flight. As the aircraft's movements didn't cease and
most of the passengers became ill, he suspected a misrigging of the directional
autopilot (yaw damper). He went to the cockpit and found the crew unable to
understand and resolve the situation. He introduced himself and relieved the
ashen-faced captain who immediately left the cockpit feeling ill. Johnston disconnected the faulting autopilot and manually stabilized the plane "with
two slight control movements".
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Boeing_707
As
we entered the aircraft, there was soft music playing over the intercom.  The
configuration was; two seats on each side, separated by a console.  It was
spacious and luxurious.  The Braniff service was great, and the Stews were
beautiful.
Braniff 707 220
We
could hardly hear the engines as we taxied into position.  The power of the
jets after riding propeller aircraft was amazing.  After a very short take off
roll, the Captain pointed the nose up and let it rip.  The cabin floor was too
steep to climb.
It
was a very impressive ride.  I bet it looked good from the ground, too.  I had
no clue that I was to see many takeoffs like this from the ground.  Way too
soon we were landing in San Antonio.
By
now our group had grown in size to nearly thirty.  A fellow in grey AF
fatigues, wearing three stripes, met us at the airport.  He loaded us onto a
blue school bus, and drove us to
Lackland
Air Force Base .
During
the ride, I had some time to look around the bus at my fellow passengers.
There were a bunch of hoodlums.  Around the bus, were greasy “DA” haircuts,
black leather jackets, and not just a few with attitude.  This looked like a
rough and boisterous group of teenagers to me.  Not at all like the clean cut,
well-behaved, group from Spokane.  I wondered if I had made a mistake.  The bus
was pretty rowdy and I somehow managed to get crosswise with one of these
sinister looking hoods.  He decided that here was a young geek that needed some
serious harassment.  This would give me something to look forward to.
We
were unloaded into an auditorium sort of place and spent some time watching the
A1C that had delivered us there flirt with a WAF while we waited for another bus
load of recruits.  This was the most impressive thing to me.  I don’t remember
any of the presentation.
We
were all very tired.  They walked us to a mess hall, still carrying our
suitcases.  We had a rather leisurely meal.  It wasn’t bad, but I was more
tired than hungry.
After
the meal, we shambled as a group to our squadron area,  assigned to the 3711th
Basic Military Training Squadron, (BMTS). We were Flight 1101 and our barracks
number was 6519.  We met our Training Instructor, (TI).  Never thought I would
forget his name.  He was a four-stripe guy with a bad attitude.  Without
realizing it, we were to learn a lot from that attitude, at the time it just
seemed… well… unnecessary.  We all made a mental note to watch out for those
four-stripe guys.
The
internet says that AF recruits are now referred to as “trainee” in the first
weeks of basic.  Back in the day, we were airmen, right off the bus.
Dipshit
airmen, lower than whale shit airmen, but, airmen.  Even
us sorry ass rainbow flights were airmen.
(See
Appendix B , References, for links to some interesting
descriptions of AF Basic Training.)
We
played, “Pick up your suitcase!”  “Put down your suitcase!” for quite a while.
My hand was sore from hauling the damn thing around before we started.  Packing
a bunch of movie camera equipment made that old suitcase even heavier.  (The
movie gear was sent home, along with my civilian clothes, without having shot a
frame.)
Lots
of guys got picked on worse than me, but I caught my share.  We had another
training session, of which I must have learned something, but remember
nothing.  I, for one, hadn’t slept very well the night before departure, and it
had been way more than 24 hours since we had taken that flight out of Spokane.
When
we finally got to our barracks, my first impression was the mirror finish on
the floor.  I wondered how they did that and suspected that we would soon be
finding out.
First,
we learned how to report.  Each of us had a turn at approaching the TI’s
office, knocking correctly, entering just so, standing at attention and
reciting, “Sir, Airman Basic whatever, reporting as ordered, Sir”.  A lot of
guys got the chance to do it more than once.  Then there was a lot of other
stuff.  I’m afraid I was not the least bit interested in how to make a bed, but
rather to get into it.  But that was not yet to be.  Beds were not even to be
sat upon.
When
were finally allowed to turn in, it seemed like only a few moments after the
lights went out that there was yelling, “Fire, Fire, Fire!” and the lights came
on again.  With much shouted “encouragement” from our TI, we finally managed to
exit the barracks.  “Move it,
Dipshit , Move it.”  “My
grandmother could move faster than that.”
Of
course we did it all wrong, so we went back and did it again.  And again, and
over again, that night we played the fire drill game all night long.  We would
get into bed and a few minutes later, “Fire, Fire, Fire”.  Over and over until
we got it right.
There
was an audience of TIs with flashlights for the first couple of turnouts.  They
could have sold tickets the first time.  What a fiasco.  With dipshits flying
out of the barracks in various stages of undress, it was hard to keep from
laughing at some of the situations.  The TIs had a line for every occasion, and
they were humorous, the first time you heard them.  It was funniest if the
tirade wasn’t directed to your neighborhood.
We
were a rainbow flight, wearing our civilian clothes for the first week or so.
We had only been issued
pith
helmets , and a web belt with canteen.  We learned how to report, march,
salute, and turn corners.  After we got our haircuts, all those hoodlums didn’t
stand out anymore.  In fact, we surely were all dipshits now.
We
were marched to a small Base Exchange (BX), where we purchased specific items
as instructed.  A certain type of padlock, flashlight, notebook, etc, so that
everyone’s would be the same.  The people in the BX knew exactly what we were
allowed to purchase.
At
5 am each morning, our TI greeted us.  We had just a few minutes to get ready
before falling out for PT.  When “Road Guards Out”, was called we had about a
minute to finish up before “Fallout on the road in Flight formation”.  While
doing PT in the dark we could smell the mess hall.  That morning mess hall odor
is not something I can describe, but I would know it instantly, even today.  It
was the same smell at every mess hall at every base.
The
mess hall procedure was very strict.  No talking or looking around, period.
There were always TIs from other flights here and they took particular pleasure
in chewing out someone else’s dipshits.  We side stepped through the chow line,
took our metal trays to a table and then filled bowls rather than glasses with
liquid because bowls held more.  Milk and lemon aid were available.  Then, eat
as fast as possible, take trays, bowls and silverware to the KP window, and
fall in behind the chow hall.
Special
jobs, such as chow runner, squad leaders, road guards, and latrine queen were
assigned to conspicuous airmen.  By carefully trying to be invisible at all
times, I managed to escape these special duties.  But, I did have plenty of
opportunity to work for the latrine queen and floor polishing crew on numerous
occasions.
Our
civilian clothes were getting pretty nasty by the time we received our uniforms
in that giant building known as “The Green Monster”.  It was hot in the
Monster, there were huge standing fans pushing air.  It smelled like a WW II
surplus store.  As we filed along in line people yelled at us and threw items
of clothing.  We were issued a blue duffle bag to put everything in.  It was
all to be done just so.
We
were issued gray Air Force fatigues, 505 tan summer uniforms, with bush
jackets, heavy blue overcoat, raincoat, two pair of brogans, low quarters,
underwear, socks, brass, headgear, etc.  We were also measured for winter blue
uniforms.  It was a mountain of stuff, and it was difficult to cram all this
gear into the duffle bag.
We
marched back to our barracks in our new, baggy, grey fatigues, wearing our
service caps without brass.  It was the look of a flight just out of the belly
of the Monster.  But, to us, it felt like we had finally made it.  Finally, we
were not a rainbow flight anymore.  With our new brogans, we could actually
march pretty swell.  “Let me hear those heels!” our TI would holler, and we did
our best to wear the heels off of our new brogans.
At
some point we were allowed to wear our hat brass on our pith helmets.
After
this, guys that screwed up during drill could be identified later by a vertical
scratch on their foreheads.  This was obtained by being out of step, or some
other infraction.  The TI would come up behind you and smack the top of your
pith helmet, jamming it down on your head, scratching your forehead with the
inside end of the hat brass.  See
GeezerFlight
Pith Helmet
for a better explanation.
Any
“free” time allowed us was spent learning how to shine our shoes, and prepare
our area for inspection.  Footlockers had to be organized very precisely.  A
pre-completed gig slip was placed under the dust cover on each bunk.  Two
others were carried on our person at all times, in case of infraction.  We also
needed to memorize our chain of command and
security instructions .
We were aware that there was a squadron “patio”, but it was next to the Orderly
Room, and our TI didn’t believe in letting dipshits go there.
We
had junior training instructor, an Airman Third Class (one stripe).  He was in
charge the first time we got a smoke break.  He parked us in front of the
barracks, put us at ease, and said, “Light ‘em up”.  We didn’t know what to
do.  There was a long silence, then he asked, “Haven’t you ever had a smoke
break, before?”  “NO SIR!”  So he had to teach us how to take a smoke break.
First we had to learn to respond to “Light ‘em up” with “THANK YOU SIR”.  Then
we had to learn field stripping of the butts, all the details.  I had given up
hope of ever being able to smoke again and quit carrying cigarettes days
before, as had most of the flight.
We
were periodically marched to the laundry and the small BX where one of the next
items we purchased would be a plastic case for our cigarettes and matches.
Also, Kiwi and cotton balls for the brogans and shoes, spares for inspection
items, and paste wax or neutral Kiwi for the barracks floor.  Fancy US Air
Force stationary was very popular. All of us in my squad had a box.  It was
good when everyone’s footlocker looked just the same.
The
days blurred into PT, Drill, Classroom Training, getting ready for inspections,
inspections, grunt work and KP.  The entire flight pulled KP several times.
Once in a mess hall that was used by foreign air force personnel.  The foreign
trainees were very interested in us, probably never having seen “American
Dipshits” before.  Here I learned the interfaces of a large dishwashing
apparatus known as a “clipper”.  This job was much preferable to some other KP
assignments, like pots and pans.
It
was great being in the fourth squad.  Usually, when they were teaching us
something in the field, the command would be; “First two squads, get down”.  I
can remember those poor saps having to “get down” and “get up”, again and
again, to get it just right.  Seldom did the third and fourth squads have to
“get down”.
Our
junior TI liked to play “O’Grady Says”, a fun game where you are not to follow
a command unless O’Grady says.  After having instant obedience beat into your
head, it was nearly impossible not to come to attention when it was called.
You would lose, because the TI didn’t say, “O’Grady Says”, “Attention”.  The
losers had extra fun, of course.
The
memory work was coming along slowly.  We could not tell in advance what
questions were going to be asked.  When assigned barracks guard duty, we could
be sure that we would be ordered to recite specific security instructions.
(They can be found in
Appendix A , Memory Work.) It was harder
to come up with the answers under pressure, and it didn’t pay to memorize them
in order, as some were more popular than others.  I learned the shorter ones
first.
We
learned how to sleep on top of our finely made bunks using only the “dust
cover” for a blanket; how to shove a cotton ball down the tube of your
“inspection” toothpaste; how to lay out a footlocker to pass inspection and
then leave it alone.  We learned how to get the floor and our brogans so shiny
you could see the cracks in your teeth.  We learned the most important thing of
all, how to be invisible to training instructors.
Getting
mail was a big deal and it was several weeks before I received any.  We were
allowed to make a phone call, but there was no one home back in Spokane, and this was way before the days of answering machines.
Mail
Call was an event, usually held in front of the Orderly Room.  Our TI picked up
the mail for the flight and called out names to come forward and get our mail,
or he threw it towards us, depending on mood.  Envelopes that were SWAK or
smelled of perfume were held up and commented upon at great length.  One lucky
guy had a very prolific girlfriend, receiving multiple smelly, racy, lipstick
stained letters at every mail call.  He was the envy of everyone in the flight,
probably our TI, too.
Then,
one day while running laps on the PT field, I came across the hoodlum fellow
from the bus that had been screwing with me every chance he got.  That poor
fellow was in the ditch, puking his guts out.  I stopped, running in place so
as not to get in trouble should a TI be watching, and pointed out to him how
easy it would be to kick his ass.  We got along fine after that.
We
received our vaccinations outside, in the field next to the squadron area.
Duty flight basic airmen were used to give the shots.  These guys were dipshits
just the same as us and did nothing to inspire our confidence.  There were two
identical processing lines.  We removed our fatigue shirts, and proceeded in
single file.
The
first station was two garbage cans with alcohol and cotton, one on each side,
these guys took a large wad of cotton and wiped your arms with the alcohol.  We
then stepped forward to the next station where the airmen on each side of you
had needles to stick you with.  At least one of these guys was showing off with
three needles in each hand.  Some of the biggest guys fainted and fell down in
this line. The airman in front of me stepped away with a needle still stuck in
his arm dripping blood.
When
we finally did get a patio break, nothing in the world had ever tasted as good
as that cold “Dr Pepper”.  It was so cool and sweet I drank three bottles just
as fast as I could.  Try that some time on a hot day and see if you don’t feel
poorly after.
September
26, 1960
– The 2 leading U.S. presidential candidates,
Richard
M. Nixon
and
John F. Kennedy , participate in the first televised
presidential debate.
In
basic training, we had no idea what was going on in the outside world, and
totally missed this historic event.
September
27, 1960, back in Spokane, before enlistment, I had a good aptitude score for
electronics, but elected to sign up in the “general” career field to get into
photography.  The recruiter told me I would have to pass the photography test
at Lackland.  All of this was true.  At a certain point in training I took the
“bypass” test.  It seemed pretty certain that my career was on track as
planned.  On September 27th I was notified that I had qualified, and was
assigned Primary AFSC (Air Force Specialty Code) 23230, Apprentice Still
Photographer.  This was great news.
Our
Flight, 1101, was getting pretty good at drill.  In the Texas heat it was very
invigorating for a northern lad.  I passed out a couple of times before I
learned how to get a handle on it.  Once, at Honor Flight inspection, the
inspection team was coming down my rank when it started coming on.  By the time
they got to me, my vision was completely black, but I made it through the
inspection.  After they moved to the next guy, I went down, smacking my head on
the asphalt.  But, I didn’t get a gig for it, that was the main thing, and we
ended up winning Honor Flight.
Then
we KNEW we were TOO COOL, with the Honor Flight Guidon, doing monkey drills in
front of the chow hall.  The waiting flights of rainbows were hopefully
watching in awe.  We had an A3C holdover acting assistant TI for a while and he
taught us a lot of good drill moves.  While the heels on our brogans were
starting to wear down, the toes were shining up pretty good.
Marching
at night was fun.  The flashlights we had were the “usher” type.  They had a
red plastic tube that illuminated, with white light out the tip.  Marching with
those flashlights at night, we did look good.  Coming to an intersection, the
TI would call “Road Guards Out” for the corner men to do traffic control.
During
this time, one day we were marched to the other side of the base and spent the
entire day taking tests.  I remember a lot of spatial relationship questions,
math and geometry that was way over my head.
Another
time we were assigned as “duty flight” and sent to do various chores.  Some of
us finished early and were actually allowed to sit in the shade for an hour or
so.  I caught a twenty-minute nap, what a great day.
My
bunk was in the upper bay of the two story, open bay barracks.  There were some
small, screened openings in the ceiling of the upper bay, leading into the
attic.  After lights out, one southern dipshit ventured up into the attic one
night.  His clowning was rewarded with some nervous laughter.  The next night,
he tried it again, even though now discouraged by his fellow airmen.  This went
on until one night he went up there for a smoke after lights out and fell
through the ceiling.
In
the ensuing investigation, a dirty towel with my numbers stamped on it was
found.  This must have been a towel that I had donated to a floor polishing
work party.  I thought it had been thrown out.  About twenty of us were
identified as having contraband in the attic.  We were scared, mostly of being
“set back” to a younger flight, and when offered an
article 15
and extra duty we
took it.  So, while the rest of the Flight was in San Antonio on a town pass,
we were polishing the orderly room floor with dry socks.
Then,
while on base liberty, two of us crossed the street in a “non square” fashion
and were caught by a TI who not only took our gig slips, but when he found out
which flight we were from, took us directly to the mess hall to spend the rest
of the day on KP.  First, we did pots and pans detail.  When we had finished
that, we spent the afternoon eyeing and quartering potatoes.  Big garbage cans
full of spuds to be cut instead of a day off.
One
day, we were assembled in a room in the squadron classroom complex that we
hadn’t seen before.  It was a little fancier than the regular classrooms with
polished wood and flags.  With much graveness, and ceremony, it was announced
that our entire flight had been selected to ship out to Okinawa.
Okinawa
had been in the news all summer, as our treaty with Japan had been renewed and
no longer allowed nuclear weapons on Japanese soil.  Weapons and aircraft were
being moved to Okinawa, straining the resources at
Kadena AB .  Our
entire flight was being sent there as emergency Air Police augmentees.
It
is difficult to believe just how badly this demoralized our flight.  Going to
that classroom, we had been marching sharp, we were Honor Flight.  Coming back,
there were heads bobbing all over the place.  We could hear the other flights
whispering about us as we waited at parade rest in front of the chow hall.
“All shipped out, and the Honor Flight, too.”  Then there were rumors that our
TI was being reassigned.
We
went back across the base after this for the same battery of tests over again.
I’m not sure if we were given any reason for taking them over.  It would be
curious to compare the scores.  I know I didn’t try nearly as hard the second
time.
I
don’t remember there ever being any resolution on the shipment to Okinawa, it just seemed to get lost in the works.  Looking back, I wonder if we were the
guinea pigs in someone’s research project or the Air Force had just changed its
mind.  Certainly, SAC wouldn’t have been happy about untrained airmen humping
its aircraft.
During
this time we were also having fun qualifying with the
M-1 carbine , completing the
bivouac exercise, with the gas house, confidence course and night march.
Also, having finally completed the extra duty from the article 15, I was able
to enjoy a base liberty, and completed same without ending up on KP.
A
typical day sampling the luxuries of Base Liberty might go something like
this.  First, a stop at Frosty Fred’s for something cool.  Think ice cream.
Maybe stroll by the Roller Rink to see if there was any action.  Sometimes a
WAF or two could be found here.  We never saw very many WAFs, they were more
like urban legend.  They called their brogans “abners”, for “ Li’l Abner ”, a character in the Al Capp
comic strip.
Another
favorite airman basic pastime was taking pictures of each other, with a cheap
BX camera, in front of the barracks and the aircraft displays.  I had a
stationary box full of those black and white photos, but lost them years ago.
Mom has this one in her photo album.
My
fellow airmen introduced me to things like, “Have A Tampa Jewels” and
“Crookettes” little cigars.  There was a newsstand that had all the hometown
newspapers.  It made you realize that there were guys from all over the country
suffering here.
One
time we saw a real snappy drill team with cleats and chrome helmets give an
inspiring demonstration.  We were going to sign up for a drill team, for sure.
Another day, we saw a hypnotist do a show in a recreation hall.  That was kind
of spooky and afterward we weren’t sure that we weren’t doing some posthypnotic
thing.  There was a lot of joking about it, back in the barracks, but we
weren’t sure.
In
those days, Basic Training consisted of two phases.  Five weeks in first phase,
at the end of which some (lucky?) airmen were shipped out to tech school, while
others continued on with another three weeks of basic.  I had been hoping to be
shipped out to a Photo Tech School, but that didn’t happen.  My buddy Dave
Wirth, from home, left for Keesler AFB for electronics tech school, I got to
stay at Lackland.
I
never crossed paths with Dave again.  I attempted to contact him while writing
this story, and I learned that he had stayed in the Air Force for five years,
then had a successful career as an engineer, at home in Opportunity, WA.  Dave’s
Mom advised me that he passed away in 2007.  She still has the same phone
number that was on our first Air Force orders in September 1960.
For
second phase our flight, 1101, was combined with flight 1100.  We were now
known as flight 1100-01, and moved into the 1100 barracks, with their TI.
It
was a lot like starting all over again.  Our new TI made it widely known that
Flight 1101 had been a fuckup flight with a fuckup TI, and those of us from
that flight were fuckups that needed to be straightened out and that would be
his main task.
There
were different rules for lots of things, including footlocker setup, and during
inspection he grabbed me by the front of my fatigues and pulled me to the side,
trying to dump me into my footlocker.  I held onto a bunk, and he finally just
gave my footlocker a kick that sent it sliding halfway down the bay and down
the stairs.  Another time he threw a can of Comet at someone; it hit the sharp
edge of a bunk and exploded.  Green powder went everywhere; it was a disaster
to clean up.
October
12
–
Cold
War :
Nikita Khrushchev
pounds his shoe on a table
at a
United
Nations
General Assembly meeting, to protest at the discussion of
Soviet
Union
policy toward
Eastern Europe .
Patio
breaks were much more important to us at this point than international
politics.
During
second phase, the patio at our new barracks saw a lot more use.  It was closer
to the BX and there were a bunch of Mexican kids that hung out there to shine
shoes.  They used alcohol and spit, and would sniff the alcohol to get a rush.
They did such a good job, that I finally had them shine the bill of my service
cap.  I never again got a gig on that item, so they solved a big problem, but
the hat always had a certain smell after that.
22
October 1960, my eighteenth birthday slipped by.  I remember looking out the
barracks window at the setting sun and the lights of the base, feeling sorry
for myself.
One
evening, they bussed our flight, and a few others, to San Antonio for the
Shrine Circus.  We all got dressed up in 505’s with bush jackets and service
cap.  That was to be the first and last time I ever wore a bush jacket.
Getting off base was like going to a different planet.  It was strange to see
people in civilian clothes.  There were even people with hair, just walking
around.   Whenever I hear the song “San Antonio Rose” it brings back this evening.
26
October 1960, orders were posted promoting us to Airman Third Class, E-2.  That
was one stripe, back in the day.  But, the promotions weren’t effective until
Nov 10, 1960.  So we didn’t get to strut around Lackland with our new stripes.
We
did get to participate in a big parade and graduation ceremony that meant
standing at parade rest of attention in the hot sun for a good long time.  It
was long enough I felt myself starting to pass out and bent over enough to get
some blood back in my head, to a chorus of urgent vulgar whispered demands to
get back at attention from my flight mates.
26
October 1960, our shipping orders were posted I couldn’t find my name at
first.  I finally found it on the back of a page, after a long  list of other
airmen.  Thirty-five poor saps, they were all assigned AFSC 77010 and were
going to be apprentice Air Policemen at Bunker Hill AFB.
On
the back of the page, after that bunch, there was my line.  “A3C Marston,
Assigned Primary AFSC 23230, Apprentice Still Photographer”, just like they had
promised.
But,
the orders continued, “Directed duty assignment 77130, Apprentice Air
Policeman”.   A3C Marston will report to 305th Combat Support Group, Bunker
Hill AFB, Peru, Indiana, no later than Nov 18, 1960.
I
thought that there must be some mistake, but was not in the mood to question
authority those days.  Maybe this could be straightened out later, at least I’m
getting out of Lackland.  So, hooray?  I’m going to be a cop?  But, on the
bright side, finally, we were “FIGMO” and could purchase our “AWOL” Bags, a
satchel, blue with gold lettering and AF insignia.
I still have mine,
how about you?
Click here for more.
We
also purchased that blue plastic case we were so proud to carry our orders
around in.
1
November 1960 the best time at Lackland was staying in the barracks after
graduation with no TI.  Even though we were still Airman Basic, we had the
freedom of the base and could come and go as we pleased.  It felt wonderful,
and didn’t last nearly long enough.
3
November 1960 thirty-six of us “Almost Apprentice Air Policemen” shipped out
for Bunker Hill AFB, Peru, Indiana.  We were permitted a ten day leave before
reporting.  I remember throwing my duffle bag on the back of the ton and a half
truck in the squadron area. I was wearing blues and it was hot, and I was oh so
happy to be leaving Lackland AFB.
Because
of my interest in railroads, I elected to take the train home.  Boarding the
train ( MKT
“The Katy” ) in San Antonio, there were “Special” coaches for the military.
These were very old coaches and contained a lot of other GI’s.  They were
mostly Army, right out of basic.  Quite a few of them were older, draftees, and
they had a completely different attitude.  The first time the train the Army
guys loaded up with booze.  Then it started getting rowdy.  You wouldn’t want
your service cap, with the spit shined bill, to get loose in this environment.
This fun went on and on to Kansas City.  If it wasn’t a troop train, it was
close enough to get the flavor.  When the puking started I spent a lot of time
trying to stay out of the way and keep my uniform clean.
Thankfully,
the train From Kansas City to Chicago didn’t have “furlough coaches”.  At Union
Station in Chicago, I caught the Northern Pacific “ Vista Dome North Coast
Limited ”, to Spokane.  I sat in the dome car the entire way.  Anxious to
get home, the trip seemed like it would never end.
After
getting off the train in Spokane, still slick sleeved, I was saluted by a
scared looking A3C, while in the station with my folks.  That was absolutely
the funniest thing that had ever happened to me in my Air Force career.  My
family was glad to see me, but they couldn’t understand why I thought this was
so hilarious.
Recollections of a Combat Defense Squadron
“Ramp Rat”
Chapter 1
Appendix A
Memory Work
Security Instructions
Compliments of:
3973CDS.com
1.
I will take charge of my
post and protect personnel and all Government property in view.
2.
I will secure my post in
an alert manner and observe everything within sight or hearing.
3.
I will report all
violations of orders I am instructed to enforce.
4.
I will relay all messages
and distress signals from other posts to Air Police Headquarters.
5.
I will quit my post only
when properly relieved.
6.
I will give the sentry
who relieves me all instructions that I have received from Officers and
Non-commissioned Officers of the Air Police.
7.
I will not talk to anyone
except in the line of duty.
8.
I will give the alarm and
notify Air Police Headquarters in case of fire, disorder or other emergency.
9.
I will call the
Non-commissioned Officer in charge in any case not covered by instructions.
10.
I will be especially
watchful at night and challenge all persons on or near my post and allow no one
to pass without proper authority.
11.
I will apprehend and
turn over to the Air Police Officer or NCO In Charge, any person who is on my
post or who attempts to cross my post without proper authority.
Recollections of a Combat Defense Squadron
“Ramp Rat”
Chapter 1
Appendix B
References
Current
advice and description of AF Basic Military Training
http://usmilitary.about.com/cs/airforcejoin/a/afbmt1.htm
“Warrior
Week”, An Evolution of Basic Field Training at Lackland AFB”, William J. Allen
Chief, Office of History, 37th Training Wing, Lackland AFB, Texas, 1 December
2000.
http://www.lackland.af.mil/shared/media/document/AFD-061212-033.pdf
Here
is an interesting description of Air Force Basic in 1968.
Recommended
reading.
http://home.earthlink.net/~ggghostie/basictraining.html
6313th
Air Police Squadron, Kadena, Okinawa
http://7thtdsaps.com/6313th_air_police_squadron.htm
Special
thanks to
3973CDS.com
Various
links to Wikipedia used;
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Missouri-Kansas-Texas_Railroad
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/North_Coast_Limited
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/No_time_for_sergeants
Recollections of a Combat Defense Squadron
“Ramp Rat”
Chapter 1
Appe ndix C
Air Force Terminology
A
lot of the language used in basic training would not be acceptable in mixed
company, but to be realistic, there was a lot of cursing.  Practically every
sentence would contain some cursing.  There was a joke about an Airman who went
home on leave, worried about using this habitual bad language.  At the dinner
table he asked his mother to pass the …  butter.  Catching himself, he turns to
his brother and says, “Thought I f***ed up, didn’t you?”
Dipshit       Airman
Basic, (E-1).  Description normally proceeded by a string of adjectives, such
as “stupid, mother f*****g, dumb ass”, Dipshit.
F***ing      Standard
BMTS all purpose adjective
KP     Kitchen
Police
TI      Training
Instructor
Latrine       spotless
open bay restroom
AWOL         Absent
Without Official Leave
FIGMO        F***
It I’ve Got My Orders
and,
in that spirit,
Wikipedia
has the ultimate list of acronyms.
Back to Geezer Flight