Joe and Calvin hit the bottle(s): Long Day: Alabama Slammer and a B-52
Joe and Calvin hit the bottle(s)
I decided that I want to write about alcohol.
I invited my partner in libation appreciation, Calvin Pohlhammer to join me.
Everytime I sample a new drink, I'm going to write about it.
Usually unprofessionally.
Sometimes concurrently.
Grab a glass and enjoy the show.
Tuesday, July 15, 2008
Long Day: Alabama Slammer and a B-52
I don't typically go for shots, I find them a terrible waste of money and alcohol, but last night I had two-ish.
One was more of a "slammer," I'm told.
These were two drinks off my beaten path, so I had slight trepidation going in, and coming out of it I have to say I enjoyed them.
Let's go! My brother-in-arms Clay and I nipped off to Wendy's and Ruggby's for a meal and a sip.
I had a Baconator in a matter of seconds and he had some chicken nuggets ("The best chicken nuggets," he says).
I have a small application on my phone that lists off drinks and I remembered I wanted to get a few knocked down for the blog, so it was a toss up between a few.
I decided to stick with the Alabama Slammer for my first round.
Clay had a Woodchuck apple cider. Alabama Slammer's
are surprisingly fruity drinks.
It was only about 4oz tops of a drink in the bottom of a sad looking plastic cup.
I got the feeling that the drink is often served in a much larger volume, probably at a party or something.
I immediately felt slighted for paying for it.
A "tasty" slammer contains: 1/2 oz amaretto 1/2 oz Southern Comfort 1/2 oz sloe gin 1 splash sweet and sour mix/some sort of citrus Honest to goodness I could taste NONE of the liquor in this drink. It was probably the acid of the OJ and sweet and sour fruit juices that did it, but it tastes like curiously strong punch more than a "slammer"...whatever the hell that is.
It was delicious though, and I'd have several more.
Perfect party drink, for getting the kick later without getting the kick going down.
I could see trays of them, all lined up all pink and pretty waiting for passing pool party guests to grab one and throw it back before mingling and carousing.
I need to try another drink with sloe gin.
The gin fanatic I am, I desire to know more. The amaretto was virtually nonexistant...which makes me believe that the slammer is a very VERY customizable drink.
I bet if I went to a different bar every night and had one it'd be subtly changed each time.
When I get to Chicago I'm going to either A) find a bar where I can become a regular and get to know how the bartenders make their drinks or B) make them all myself.
I'd prefer B, but finding a nice intimate bar may be what I need. The slammer was a good drink, it was tasty and the scariest part is I could drink it all night but honestly I'm probably not going to have one again.
Wholly unremarkable.
Great for refreshment and leave it at that.
Serve it to guests, share it around. Make a big ole'batch and have a good time but don't go into a bar and order a single one for yourself, you'll be sad. I move on from that through two cigarettes and a Woodchuck apple cider to a
B-52 . 1 part Grand Marnier 1 part Baileys Irish Creme 1 part Kahlua Layer the ingredients in the shot according to this order: Kahlua first, Baileys, Grand Marnier.
Use the back of a cold bar spoon when adding the top two ingredients and pour slowly to prevent mixing. Replace the Grand Marnier with a high-proof dark rum and set it aflame for a Flaming B-52, a showy version of the drink.
Set fire to the rum and drink quickly with a metal straw. The B-52 is a shot that is traditionally served pousse-cafe style.
This means the layering of the ingredients according to density.
Calvin makes a MEAN pousse-cafe Grasshopper actually.
The shot came to me and was the color of my skin throughout.
No pousse-cafe for me.
I was saddened yet again.
I raised it, gave it a nod, and threw it back. First thing that hit me was the
Grand Marnier .
The rich and powerful bite of the drink hits your tongue first and foremost.
It sets a high intensity bar for the rest of the shot.
Grand Mariner is primarily an orange liqueur, and despite not tasting particularly orange it did bite with just the barest acidic hint.
After that I got the mix of Baileys and Kahlua.
Kahlua is a coffee liqueur and Baileys is well...Baileys.
Irish creme by itself is an incredibly sweet and silky drink, and mixed with the coffee flavor of the Kahlua the sting of the Grand Marnier was gone within moments, replaced by a lingering coffee and sugar flavor in the back of my mouth.
The milky Baileys coated my tastebuds and took over the flavor well after I'd finished the shot. For several minutes actually.
The smokey nature of the Kahlua was a perfect combination with the creamy Irish creme. I thoroughly enjoyed the B-52.
I like Baileys by itself, and I drink White Russians with my roommate John often enough to appreciate good Kahlua, but this was my first run in with Grand Marnier.
I'd like to have it in a drink again after this.
I think it's a great liquor for mixing.
If you enjoy the mulled flavors of Baileys and Kahlua, give this shot a...try. Bottom Line:
The "Bama" Slammer is for parties and poolside.
The B-52 is for a job well done. PS :
After a little research, Wikipedia offered up several variants of the B-52.
I'm gonna share them here.
They're kinda fun!
The following is a quote from the Wikipedia entry: B-52 with Bombay Doors , a B-52 with Bombay
gin B-52 in the Desert , a B-52 with
tequila
rather than Bailey's Irish Cream [2] B-52 , a B-52 with
Cointreau B-53 , a B-52 with
vodka B-54 , a B-52 with
amaretto B-55 , a B-52 with
absinthe B-57 , a B-52 with
Sambuca , and
triple sec
rather than Grand Marnier B-61 , a B-52 with
vanilla
and
creme de cacao B-1 , a B-52 with
Ketel One
vodka
[3] PPS :
Don't
have both of these in one night.
I got a
maaaaad
headache.
Posted by
"Viewtiful" Joe Locastro
at
11:23 PM
Labels:
alabama ,
alcohol ,
b-52 ,
big ,
drinks ,
godadmn ,
headache ,
shot ,
slammer
No comments:
Post a Comment
Newer Post
Older Post
Home
Subscribe to:
Post Comments (Atom)
The Author
This is a picture of me.
About the Authors
Calvin Pohlhammer
"Viewtiful" Joe Locastro
Joe's Drink of Choice
Gin Gimlet
Blog Archive
►
2009
(5)
►
09/13 - 09/20
(2)
►
08/23 - 08/30
(1)
►
08/09 - 08/16
(1)
►
05/31 - 06/07
(1)
▼
2008
(17)
►
12/21 - 12/28
(1)
►
12/14 - 12/21
(1)
►
12/07 - 12/14
(1)
►
08/17 - 08/24
(2)
►
08/10 - 08/17
(1)
►
08/03 - 08/10
(1)
▼
07/13 - 07/20
(7)
The Kir Royale and Godfather
The Dark Knight
Long Day: Alabama Slammer and a B-52
Inaugural Post Addendum: Limencello
Gin gimlet, part 1
Guinness Is Good For You: My Inaugural Post
Disaronno Amaretto and the amaretto sour
►
07/06 - 07/13
(3)
Read These
Critical Hit
Game Design 2 Journal #7: The one about Game Design 2
5 years ago
James Mosingo's blog
Sad Lady...
6 years ago
Hit the bottle
Posts
Atom
Posts
Comments
Atom
Comments