IRAQ UPDATE: VIETNAM WAR TIME LINE, TAKEN FROM WIKIPEDIA, WITH EDITS
skip to main
|
skip to sidebar
IRAQ UPDATE
DAILY NEWS,OPINION,AND MIDEAST UPDATES............ SEE SITE LINK FOR TIME LINE OF START UP OF IRAQ WAR AND TIME LINE OF VIETNAM WAR (1961-1975)
Thursday, December 7, 2006
VIETNAM WAR TIME LINE, TAKEN FROM WIKIPEDIA, WITH EDITS
1961 :
Fearing that another failure on the part of the U.S. to stop communist expansion would fatally damage U.S. credibility with its allies, Kennedy told reporter James Reston: "Now we have a problem in making our power credible and Vietnam looks like the place." [11]
The commitment of the defend Vietnam was reaffirmed by Kennedy on 11 May in National Security Action Memorandum 52 which became known as "The Presidential Program for Vietnam". Its opening statement reads: "U.S. objectives and concept of operations [are] to prevent communist domination of South Vietnam; to create in that country a viable and increasingly democratic society, and to initiate, on an accelerated basis, a series of mutually supporting actions of a military, political, economic psychological, and covert character designed to achieve this objective." Kennedy was intrigued by the idea of utilizing U.S. Army
Special Forces
for counterinsurgency conflicts in Third World countries threatened by the new "wars of national liberation". May 1961 —
Kennedy sends 400
United States Army Special Forces
personnel to South Vietnam to train South Vietnamese soldiers in guerilla warfare following a visit to the country by Vice-President Johnson. June 1961 —
Kennedy meets with Khrushchev in Vienna. He protests North Vietnam's attacks on Laos and points out that the U.S. was supporting the neutrality of Laos. Both leaders agree to pursue a policy of creating a neutral Laos. October 1961 —
Following successful NLF (North Vietnam) attacks, Defense Secretary
Robert S. McNamara
recommends sending six divisions (200,000 men) to Vietnam. 1962:
The Diem regime had been initially able to cope with the insurgency with the aid of U.S. materiel and advisers, and, by 1962, seemed to be gaining the upper hand. Senior U.S. military leaders received positive reports from the U.S. commander, General
Paul D. Harkins
of the
Military Assistance Command, Vietnam
or MACV. By the following year, however, cracks began to appear in the facade of success. 1963:
In January a possible victory that was turned into a stunning defeat for government forces at the
Battle of Ap Bac
caused consternation among both the military advisors in the field and among politicians in Washington. In May 1963 Republican
Barry Goldwater
declares that the U.S. should fight to win or withdraw from Vietnam. In November, the U.S. embassy in Saigon communicated through the CIA to the military officers that made up the conspiracy that the U.S. would not oppose the removal of Diem (the S. Vietnamese leader). The president was overthrown by the military and later executed along with his brother. After the coup, Kennedy appeared to be genuinely shocked and dismayed by the murders. (Top CIA officials were baffled that Kennedy didn't understand that this was a possible outcome.) Chaos ensued in the security and defense systems of South Vietnam and, once again, Hanoi took advantage of the situation to increase its support for the insurgents in the south. South Vietnam now entered a period of extreme political instability, as one military junta replaced another in quick succession. Ironically, Kennedy was himself assassinated just three weeks after Diem. Kennedy sends just 16,000 before his death in November, 1963. He was automatically succeeded by Vice-President
Lyndon B. Johnson , who declared on 24 November that the U.S. would continue its support of the South Vietnamese. During this period, the U.S. military involvement in South Vietnam dramatically increased and the 'Americanization' of the war began. 1964:
On 27 July 1964 5,000 additional U.S. military advisors were ordered to South Vietnam, bringing the total U.S. troop commitment to 21,000. In a televised address, President Johnson argued that "the challenge that we face in Southeast Asia today "is the same challenge that we have faced with courage and that we have met with strength in Greece and Turkey, in Berlin and Korea, in Lebanon and in Cuba." National Security Council members, including Secretary of Defense McNamara, Secretary of State
Dean Rusk , and General
Maxwell Taylor , agreed on 28 November to recommend that Johnson adopt a plan for a two-stage escalation of the bombing of North Vietnam." President Johnson had already appointed General
William C. Westmoreland
to succeed Paul D. Harkins as Commander of MACV in June 1964. (Under Westmoreland, the expansion of American troop strength in Vietnam took place. American forces rose from 16,000 during 1964 to more than 553,000 by 1969.) 1965:
On 8 March 1965, 3,500
United States Marines
came ashore at Da Nang as the first U.S. combat troops in South Vietnam, adding to the 25,000 U.S. military advisers already in place. On 5 May the 173d Airborne Brigade became the first U.S. Army ground unit committed to the conflict in South Vietnam. The Battle of Ia Drang was the first major battle of the
Vietnam War
between the
United States Army
and the
People's Army of Vietnam
(PAVN). The two-part battle took place between
November 14
and
November 18 , 1965. Operation Rolling Thunder was the code name given to a sustained strategic bombing campaign targeted against North Vietnam by aircraft of the U.S. Air Force and Navy that was inaugurated on 2 March 1965. After more than a million sorties were flown and three-quarters of a million tons of bombs were dropped, Rolling Thunder was ended on 11 November 1968.
[13] On 27 November 1965, the
Pentagon
declared that if the major operations needed to neutralize North Vietnamese and NLF forces were to succeed, U.S. troop levels in South Vietnam would have to be increased from
120,000 to 400,000 . In a series of meetings between Westmoreland and the president held in Honolulu in February 1966, Westmoreland argued that the U.S. presence had succeeded in preventing the immediate defeat of the South Vietnamese government, but that more troops would be necessary if systematic offensive operations were to be conducted. The adoption of this strategy, however, brought Westmoreland into direct conflict with his Marine Corps commander, General Lewis Walt, who had already recognized the security of the villages as the key to success. Walt had immediately commenced pacification efforts in his area of responsibility, but Westmoreland was unhappy, believing that the Marines were being underutilized and fighting the wrong enemy. 1966:
In the end, MACV won out and Westmoreland's
search and destroy
concept, predicated on the attrition of enemy forces, won the day. It is ironic that at this point in the conflict, both sides chose similar strategies. The PAVN, which had been operating a more conventional, large-unit war, switched back to small-unit operations in the face of U.S. military capability. The real struggle now began in the villages, where the "hearts and minds" of the Vietnamese peasants, whose cooperation was absolutely necessary to military success, were to be won or lost. Unfortunately for the U.S., it had given responsibility for this struggle to the ARVN, whose troops and commanders were notoriously unfit for the task. Only time would tell which side would feel the pain of the attritional war first and concede victory to the other side. Since the goal of the operations was to kill the enemy, ground was not taken and held as in previous wars. Savage fighting and the retreat of the enemy was immediately followed by the abandonment of the terrain just seized, leaving the Americans only in control of the ground upon which they stood. Combined with this was the anger and frustration engendered among American troops by the effective tactics of the NLF, who conducted a war of sniping, booby traps and mines, and terror against the Americans. President Johnson authorized an increase in troop strength to 429,000 by August 1966. 1967:
Late in 1967, Westmoreland said that it was conceivable that in two years or less U.S. forces could be phased out of the war, turning over more and more of the fighting to the ARVN [14] He should have known better.... General Westmoreland's public reassurances that the "light at the end of the tunnel" was about to be reached were barely out of his mouth when, on 30 January 1968, PAVN and NLF forces broke the truce that accompanied the annual Lunar New Year (Tet) holiday and mounted their largest offensive thus far in the conflict in hopes of sparking a "General Uprising" among the South Vietnamese. These forces, ranging in size from small groups to entire regiments, attacked nearly every city and major military installation in South Vietnam. The Tet Offensive came to embody the growing
credibility gap
at the heart of U.S. government statements. These realizations and changing attitudes forced the American public (and politicians) to face hard realities and to reexamine their position in Southeast Asia. The days of an open-ended commitment to the conflict were over. The psychological impact of the Tet Offensive effectively ended the political career of Lyndon Johnson. On 11 March, Senator
Eugene McCarthy
won 42 percent of the vote in the Democratic
New Hampshire Primary . 1968:
U.S. and DRV negotiators met in Paris on 10 May 1968 for the opening session of the
peace talks ....For five months, however, the negotiations stalled as neither Hanoi nor Washington was willing to give ground that would allow full negotiations to begin....One of Nixon's main foreign policy goals had been the achievement of a breakthrough in U.S. relations with China and the Soviet Union. An avowed anti-communist since early in his political career, Nixon could make diplomatic overtures to the communists without being accused of being "soft." The result of his overtures was an era of
détente
that led to nuclear arms reductions by the U.S. and Soviet Union and the beginning of a dialogue with China. In this context, Nixon viewed Vietnam as simply another limited conflict forming part of the larger tapestry of superpower relations.... On 16 March 1968, three companies of Task Force Barker, part of the
Americal Division , took part in a search and destroy operation near the village of
My Lai , in Quang Nam Province. ...The morality of U.S. participation in the conflict was a major political issue both in the U.S. and abroad. First, there was the question whether America should have interfered in what was generally considered to be a civil war. Second, was a proxy war, without a clear and decisive path to victory, worth the number of casualties that were being sustained by both combatants and civilians? Third, there was the question how the American military, which depended on the use of massive amounts of firepower (which tended to hold down casualties), could fight a war against an elusive enemy that was often indistinguishable from the civilian population. Neither (side in the Peace negotiations) gave way until late in October when Johnson issued preliminary orders to halt the bombing of North Vietnam (which ended on 11 November). 1969:
Investigative journalist
Seymour Hersh
exposed the
My Lai massacre
in print and the Haeberle photos splashed across the world media. (The
Vietnam War Crimes Working Group Files
made public in 1994 by the "Freedom of Information Act" reveal seven, albeit smaller, massacres previously unacknowledged by the Pentagon.[ citation needed ] It must also be stated that all of the allegations combined only add up to a fraction of the political murders carried out by the NLF and North Vietnamese Army during the conflict.) 1970:
Before 1970 two thousand incursions into Cambodian territory that were backed by primarily tactical bombing operations, despite Cambodia's claims of neutrality. Thereafter General
Creighton Abrams , recommended to newly-inaugurated President
Richard Nixon , that the base areas be attacked by aerial bombardment using
B-52
bombers. Nixon authorized the campaign, which totalled more than 3000 sorties over 14 months. The expansion of the conflict into Cambodia was seen as a direct escalation of the conflict, nullifying Nixon's promises of de-escalating the war. During the ensuing protests, four students were
shot and killed
and a score were wounded by
Ohio National Guardsmen
during a demonstration at
Kent State University . In an effort to lessen opposition to the U.S. commitment, Nixon announced on 12 October that the U.S. would withdraw 40,000 more troops from Vietnam before Christmas. 1971:
The credibility of the U.S. government again suffered in 1971 when
The New York Times ,
The Washington Post
and other newspapers serially published
The Pentagon Papers
(actually U.S.-Vietnam Relations, 1945-1967). The Times began publishing excerpts as a series of articles on
June 13 . The total number of U.S. forces in South Vietnam dropped to 196,700 on 29 October, the lowest level since January 1966. The "Winter Soldier Investigation" was a media event intended to publicize
war crimes
and
atrocities
by the
United States Armed Forces
and their allies in the
Vietnam War ....The three-day gathering of 109
veterans
and 16 civilians in
Detroit ,
Michigan , from
January 31 - February 2 ,
1971 , was organized by the
Vietnam Veterans Against the War
(VVAW). Honorably discharged soldiers, as well as retired civilian contractors and medical personnel, all gave testimony about war crimes they had committed or witnessed during the years of 1963-1970. 1972:
During the run-up to the 1972 presidential election, the war was again a major issue. ....the withdrawal of American troops, who now numbered less than 100,000 at the beginning of the year, was continued as scheduled. By June only six infantry battalions remained. On 12 August, the last American ground combat troops left the country....force levels were then down to 27,000. Because of a disagreement with the South Vietnamese President Thieu Nixon and to reassure him of US resolve, Nixon committed the US to large raids against both Hanoi and Haiphong on December 18. Nixon justified his actions by blaming the impasse in negotiations on the North Vietnamese, causing one commentator to describe his actions as "War by tantrum." 1973:
On 15 January 1973, citing progress in peace negotiations, Nixon announced the suspension of all offensive actions against North Vietnam, to be followed by a unilateral withdrawal of all U.S. troops. The
Paris Peace Accords
on 'Ending the War and Restoring Peace in Vietnam' were signed on 27 January, officially ending direct U.S. involvement in the Vietnam War. 1974:
The president was able to exert little influence on a hostile public long sick of the Vietnam War. Nixon was unable to fulfill his promises to Thieu to maintain economic aid. ....most of it was siphoned off by corrupt officials in the South Vietnamese government, and little actually went to the military effort and the amount of expected aid had been cut in half.... At the same time, aid to North Vietnam from the Soviet Union increased....The balance of power shifted decisively in North Vietnam's favor, and the north subsequently launched a major military offensive against the south. 1975:
In December 1974, the Democratic majority in Congress had passed the Foreign Assistance Act of 1974, which cut off all military funding to the South Vietnamese government and made unenforceable the peace terms negotiated by Nixon. Nixon, threatened with impeachment because of Watergate, had resigned his office.
Gerald R. Ford , Nixon's vice-president stepped in to finish his term. The new president vetoed the Foreign Assistance Act, but his veto was overridden by Congress. By the end of April, a weakened South Vietnamese military had collapsed on all fronts. On the 27th, 100,000 North Vietnamese troops encircled Saigon, which was defended by only about 30,000 ARVN troops. In order to increase panic and disorder in the city, the VPA began shelling the airport and eventually forced its closure. With the air exit closed, large numbers of civilians who might otherwise have fled the city found that they had no way out. On 29 April, the U.S. launched
Operation Frequent Wind , arguably the largest helicopter evacuation in history. South Vietnam was now perceived as doomed. In the early morning hours of 30 April, the last U.S. Marines evacuated the embassy roof by helicopter as civilians poured over the embassy perimeter and swarmed onto its grounds. On that day the presidential palace was captured and the NLF flag waved victoriously over it. Thieu's successor, President Duong Văn Minh attempted to surrender Saigon, but VPA Colonel Búi Tín informed him that he did not have anything to surrender. Minh then issued his last command, ordering all South Vietnamese troops to lay down their arms.
Posted by
Sharon
at
9:24 AM
No comments:
Post a Comment
Newer Post
Home
Subscribe to:
Post Comments (Atom)
WELCOME
This is an effort to encourage analysis of the current war and administration policies in the Middle East and especially in Iraq.
Any suggestions from readers are always welcome, as are appropriate links.
ARTICLES REGARDING IRAQ"S CULTURE, HISTORY AND SIGNIFICANCE, FROM SMITHSONIAN AND OTHER SOURCES
IRAQ'S UNRULY CENTURY
IRAQ'S RESILIENT MINORITY: THE KURDS
IRAQ'S OPPRESSED MAJORITY: THE SHIITES
BAGHDAD BEYOND THE HEADLINES
SAVING IRAQ'S TREASURES
RETURN TO THE MARSH
WIKIPEDIA HISTORY (SOMEWHAT CONTROVERSIAL...SEE NOTES
View of a Ma"dan ("Marsh Arab") floating village near Nasiriyah,
by Nik Wheeler, 1974
A complex ecosystem created by the annual flooding of the Euphrates and Tigris rivers, Iraq's marshes have sustained human civilization for more than 5,000 years. Some of the earliest settlements of Mesopotamia—"the land between the rivers"—were built on floating reed islands in these very wetlands. This was one of the first places where human beings developed agriculture, invented writing and worshiped a pantheon of deities. In more recent times, the remoteness of the region, the near-absence of roads, the difficult terrain and the indifference of Baghdad's governing authorities insulated the area from the political and military upheavals that buffeted much of the Arab world. In his 1964 classic, The Marsh Arabs, British travel writer Wilfred Thesiger described a timeless environment of "stars reflected in dark water, the croaking of frogs, canoes coming home at evening, peace and continuity, the stillness of a world that never knew an engine."
IRAQ WAR LINKS
IRAQ SLOGGER
IRAQ TODAY
UP TO THE MINUTE NEWS REGARDING IRAQ
ACUTE POLITICS: A SOLDIER'S BLOG
IRAQ WAR REPORT: FROM GLOBAL POLICY
POLICY REPORT ON PERMANENT BASES
Center for Global Research
Human Rights Slain on US Global Battlefield
INSIDE IRAQ
IRAQ DIARIES
EMPIRENOTES: a weekly commentary
STATE DEPARTMENT DOCUMENTS ON IRAQ
PERSPECTIVES: EXTENSIVE BACKGROUND MATERIALS ON IRAQ--JUST ONE CLICK AWAY
Timeline: U.S. Involvement in Iraq
WHAT'S HAPPENING TO THE PRESS 2-10-07
DUBAI INVESTMENT BANKER SEES "GEOPOLITICAL NIGHTMARE IN THE MIDDLE EAST"
COST OF WAR IN IRAQ: CONSTANTLY UPDATED
Text of Webb Speech 1/23/07 following State of the Union
THE DECIDER: BUSH AND THE PSYCHOLOGY OF INCOMPETENT DECISIONS 1/18/07
American Enterprise Institute: SURGE TO VICTORY USA! JANUARY 2007
U TUBE; IRAQ STREET SCENE BEFORE THE INVASION
DETAINEE ABUSE DOCUMENTED: JANUARY, 2007
DECEMBER, 2006: We're Not Winning, We're Not Losing:
NOVEMBER, 2006: A lawsuit in Germany will seek a criminal prosecution of some U.S. officials for Abu Ghraib and Gitmo
NOVEMBER, 2006: Rumsfeld Quits
NOVEMBER, 2005: Battle with the Pentagon's Top Echelon
AUGUST 2005: Plan of Attack: New Secret Strategy to Combat Terrorists
FORMAL ADMINISTRATION WAR POLICY
JANUARY 2005: Rumsfeld and Generals Disagree on Occupation Strategy
JANUARY, 2004: Bush's advisers debating military force against Syria
MARCH, 2003: OFFENSE AND DEFENSE: The Battle Between Don Rumsfeld and the Pentagon
JUNE, 2002: USA Today--Rivalry--Secretary of Defense vs. State Dept.
IRAQ UPDATE
IRAQ: PRE-WAR PLANNING AND EXECUTION BY THE BUSH ADMINISTRATION
VIETNAM WAR TIME LINE
WHAT'S HAPPENING TO THE PRESS
BLOG TIDBITS
#1
4/12/07 Iraqi civilians are experiencing "immense suffering" because of a "disastrous" security situation, deepening poverty and a worsening humanitarian crisis, according to a report by the International Committee of the Red Cross. The ICRC also sees no sign that the US-led security "surge" in Baghdad is bringing relief to the capital, while hospitals struggle to cope with mass casualties as malnutrition as well as power and water shortages become more frequent across the country.
"The suffering Iraqi men, women and children are enduring today is unbearable and unacceptable," Pierre Kraehenbuehl, director of operations for the organisation, said at the group's Geneva headquarters. The report, Civilians without Protection, provides a grim snapshot of the situation in Iraq but will carry special weight thanks to the ICRC's reputation as the scrupulously neutral "silent service" of international humanitarian work.
It maintains a presence in Baghdad despite the bombing of its offices in 2003, and works closely with the Iraqi Red Crescent. The report says that more than 100,000 families have been forced to leave their homes in the past year because of the shootings, bombings, abductions, murders and military operations.
#2
NewsTrack - Top News, Published: Feb. 10, 2007 at 8:00 AM
Russia's Putin blasts U.S. foreign policy.
MUNICH, (UPI) -- Russian President Vladimir Putin criticized the United States at an international conference in Germany for its "very dangerous" approach to global relations.
Putin told senior security officials from around the world that their nations were "witnessing an almost uncontained hyper use of force in international relations," the BBC reported Saturday.
"One state, the United States, has overstepped its national borders in every way,"
Putin said at the Munich Conference on Security Policy.
"This is very dangerous. Nobody feels secure anymore because nobody can hide behind international law."
The BBC reported that Putin said the approach is "nourishing an arms race with the desire of countries to get nuclear weapons."
Putin also denied reports that Russia has passed nuclear technology to Iran, RIA Novosti said. "Technology is coming from Europe, from Asian countries. Russia has nothing to do with this," he said.
http://www.upi.com/NewsTrack/Top_News/20070210-082453-8468r/
BACKGROUND IRAQ
http://www.amazon.com/Occupation-Iraq-Winning-Losing-Peace/dp/0300110154/ref=dp_return_1/102-6636887-2696923?ie=UTF8&n=283155&s=books&qid=1176977838&sr=1-1
On Iran, Bush Faces Haunting Echoes of Iraq: NYT 1/28/07
“We’re not looking for a fight with Iran,” R. Nicholas Burns, the under secretary of state for policy and the chief negotiator on Iranian issues, said in an interview on Friday evening, just a few hours after Mr. Bush had repeated his warnings to Iran to halt “killing our soldiers” and to stop its drive for nuclear fuel.
....there has been a vigorous behind-the-scenes debate in the administration over whether the more aggressive policy could provoke Iran to strike back. The State Department has tended to counsel caution, while some more hawkish aides in the Pentagon and the White House say the increase in American forces in Iraq could be neutered unless the American military forcefully pushes back against the Iranian aid to the militias.
...Officials familiar with the intelligence prepared for Mr. Bush say American assessments conclude that Iran sees itself at the head of an alliance to drive the United States out of Iraq, and ultimately out of the Middle East. Other briefings have included assessments that Russia and China will never join meaningful economic sanctions against a country that they do business with, so if Mr. Bush wants to apply military and economic pressure, he must do so outside the United Nations.
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/01/28/world/middleeast/28iran.html?ei=5094&en=830ff9c66178ef2d&amp;amp;hp=&ex=1169960400&partner=homepage&pagewanted=all
MUSLIM DISTRIBUTION
Sunnis vs. Shia (Shia in dark green)
Seymour Hersch: The Truth Out in The New Yorker
November 2006
....If the Democrats won on November 7th, the Vice-President said, that victory would not stop the Administration from pursuing a military option with Iran. The White House would put "shorteners" on any legislative restrictions, Cheney said, and thus stop Congress from getting in its way....
The White House's concern was not that the Democrats would cut off funds for the war in Iraq but that future legislation would prohibit it from financing operations targeted at overthrowing or destabilizing the Iranian government, to keep it from getting the bomb.
"They're afraid that Congress is going to vote a binding resolution to stop a hit on Iran, à la Nicaragua in the Contra war," a former senior intelligence official told me.
The Pentagon consultant told me that, while there may be pressure from the Israelis, "they won't do anything on their own without our green light." That assurance, he said, "comes from the Cheney shop. It's Cheney himself who is saying, 'We're not going to leave you high and dry, but don't go without us.' " A senior European diplomat agreed: "For Israel, it is a question of life or death. The United States does not want to go into Iran, but, if Israel feels more and more cornered, there may be no other choice."
A nuclear-armed Iran would not only threaten Israel. It could trigger a strategic-arms race throughout the Middle East, as Saudi Arabia, Jordan, and Egypt - all led by Sunni governments - would be compelled to take steps to defend themselves. The Bush Administration, if it does take military action against Iran, would have support from Democrats as well as Republicans. Senators Hillary Clinton, of New York, and Evan Bayh, of Indiana, who are potential Democratic Presidential candidates, have warned that Iran cannot be permitted to build a bomb and that - as Clinton said earlier this year - "we cannot take any option off the table." Howard Dean, the chairman of the Democratic National Committee, has also endorsed this view.
Last May, Olmert was given a rousing reception when he addressed a joint session of Congress and declared, "A nuclear Iran means a terrorist state could achieve the primary mission for which terrorists live and die - the mass destruction of innocent human life. This challenge, which I believe is the test of our time, is one the West cannot afford to fail."
http://www.truthout.org/cgi-bin/artman/exec/view.cgi/66/23964
Refugee Patterns from Iraq:
From Born at the Crest of the Empire Blog
United Nations Refugee Migration
The Build Up To Iran Timeline--Ready to Go To War
http://www.rawstory.com/news/2007/Timeline_new2_0125.html
A VIEW FROM LONG ISLAND
Embarrassment of riches in Iraq, Newsday.com Editorial
CONGRESS MUST PROBE LOOSE CASH
February 13, 2007
If anyone ever doubted the need for congressional oversight of spending in Iraq, consider the $12 billion - in cash no less - shipped from the Federal Reserve in New York to Baghdad in the first 13 months of the war and occupation. That's 363 tons of shrink-wrapped cash - 281 million individual bills - stacked on 484 wood pallets and flown to Baghdad in C-130 cargo planes. What happened to all that money? Good question.
That's what the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform began probing last week. There's no evidence, at this point, that it fell into the hands of insurgents. But corruption and waste seem likely.The cash was delivered to the Coalition Provisional Authority, led at the time by American L. Paul Bremer. He testified it was needed to pay Iraqis and contractors because Iraq's banking system was a dysfunctional shambles. One contractor got a duffel bag stuffed with $2 million in cash, according to a report prepared for committee Democrats. Other cash payments were made from the back of a pickup truck. Cash was stored in unguarded sacks in Iraqi ministry offices. Vaults were sometimes used, but the key to one was kept in an unsecured backpack.
Auditors found that $774,300 was stolen from another vault. Record-keeping was spotty at best: $500 million in security funding was disbursed but labeled only "TBD," meaning, to be determined. This wasn't U.S. taxpayers' money. It came from sales of Iraqi oil and seized Iraqi assets.
But with the tab in Iraq for U.S. taxpayers nearing $700 billion spent, approved and requested, Congress needs to keep a sharp eye on the money. With a Republican majority, Congress had little stomach for oversight. Credit Democrats for boldly going where the GOP wouldn't. They should recognize the difficulty of operating in a war zone and resist a partisan gotcha-fest. But Congress absolutely needs to follow the money in Iraq
Carl Bernstein On Bush Administration Excesses
The Pulitzer Prize-winning journalist commented:
"In the current administration we have seen from the President [on] down--especially Vice President Cheney, Attorney General Gonzales, Condoleeza Rice, Donald Rumsfeld--a willingness to ignore the great constitutional history of the United States -- to suspend, really ... many of the constitutional guarantees that have made us a nation apart..."
"Nixon and his men lied and abused the constitution to horrible effect, but they were stopped," said Bernstein. "The Bush Administration ... was not stopped, and has done far greater damage."
http://www.rawstory.com/news/2007/Famed_reporter_Carl_Bernstein_Bush_administration_0125.html
IRAN/ISRAEL.........
The Sunday Times of London reported on Jan. 7 that two Israeli air squadrons are training for the mission and “if things go according to plan, a pilot will first launch a conventional laser-guided bomb to blow a shaft down through the layers of hardened concrete [at Natanz].
Other pilots will then be ready to drop low-yield one kiloton nuclear weapons into the hole.”The Sunday Times wrote that Israel also would hit two other facilities – at Isfahan and Arak – with conventional bombs. But
the possible use of a nuclear bomb at Natanz would represent the first nuclear attack since the United States destroyed Hiroshima and Nagasaki in Japan at the end of World War II six decades ago.
http://www.nytimes.com/aponline/world/AP-Iran-Russia-Weapons.html?_r=3&oref=slogin&oref=slogin&oref=
Iran Receives Russian Defense Missiles
By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
Published: January 24, 2007
TEHRAN, Iran (AP) -- Iranian officials said Wednesday that they have taken delivery of advanced Russian air defense missile systems -- weapons intended, according to one Russian news agency, to defend Tehran's major nuclear facilities.
According to Russia's ITAR-Tass news agency, the weapons were expected to be used to protect major government and military installations such the nuclear facilities at Isfahan, Bushehr, Tehran and in eastern Iran.
....Sergei Chemezov, the head of the country's state-run weapons exporter as saying that the Tor-M1 missiles had been delivered before the end of December 2006.
THE UNFUNDED BATTLE TO SAVE IRAQ"S CHILDREN
Doctors plea for children of Iraq: January 19, 2007
Pity The Sick Of Iraq
http://news.independent.co.uk/world/middle_east/article2165470.ece
RICE:
I DON"T WANT TO... LOOK LIKE... WE JUST SORT OF BEAT THEIR BRAINS OUT...
Jan 11, 2007 — WASHINGTON (Reuters) - Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice said on Thursday the Bush administration would give Iraq's government some "breathing space" after the president's "tough" words in his Iraq speech.
In comments picked up on an open microphone between morning television interviews, Rice indicated she did not want to put too much pressure on Iraqi Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki, with whom the Bush administration has become increasingly irritated.
"I don't want to descend on the Maliki government and look like we, you know, just sort of beat their brains out," said Rice in comments monitored by Reuters from a television feed.
"The president was pretty tough last night and we'll be pretty tough today. Give them a little time to now do something, a little breathing space," she added.
THE OIL COMPANIES WEIGH IN.........
January 7, 2007
"Iraq's massive oil reserves, the third-largest in the world, are about to be thrown open for large-scale exploitation by Western oil companies under a controversial law which is expected to come before the Iraqi parliament within days," Danny Fortson, Andrew Murray-Watson and Tim Webb report in the cover story.
According to the paper, the law "would give big oil companies such as BP, Shell and Exxon 30-year contracts to extract Iraqi crude and allow the first large-scale operation of foreign oil interests in the country since the industry was nationalised in 1972."
"Supporters say the provision allowing oil companies to take up to 75 per cent of the profits will last until they have recouped initial drilling costs," the article continues. "After that, they would collect about 20 per cent of all profits, according to industry sources in Iraq. But that is twice the industry average for such deals."
http://www.rawstory.com/news/2007/Intelligence_officials_believe_White_House_chose_0108.html
MASTER OF WAR: www.latimes.com/news/nationworld/iraq/complete/la-na-feith10feb10,1,771787.story?
Doug Feith, UNDERSECRETARY OF DEFENSE WHO TILTED THE INTELLIGENCE:
In 1999, his firm Feith & Zell formed an alliance with the Israel-based Zell, Goldberg & Co., which resulted in the creation of the Fandz International Law Group. According to Fandz’s web site, the law group “has recently established a task force dealing with issues and opportunities relating to the recently ended war with Iraq. … and is assisting regional construction and logistics firms to collaborate with contractors from the United States and other coalition countries in implementing infrastructure and other reconstruction projects in Iraq.
Rumsfeld Doubletalk?
"As we know, there are known knowns. There are things we know we know. We also know there are known unknowns. That is to say we know there are some things we do not know. But there are also unknown unknowns, the ones we don't know we don't know."
(....See psychology Johari Communication Window
http://www.teleometrics.com/info/resources_johari.html )
According to Newsweek, Air Force Secretary Jim Roche went to Rumsfeld early on and said, "Don, you do realize that Iraq could be another Vietnam." Replied Rumsfeld: "Vietnam? You think you have to tell me about Vietnam? Of course it won't be Vietnam. We are going to go in, overthrow Saddam, get out. That's it."
Blog Archive
►
2007
(177)
►
July
(14)
►
June
(27)
►
May
(28)
►
April
(33)
►
March
(21)
►
February
(36)
►
January
(18)
▼
2006
(2)
▼
December
(2)
BUSH ADMINISTRATION PRE-WAR PLANNING
VIETNAM WAR TIME LINE, TAKEN FROM WIKIPEDIA, WITH ...