21 | September | 2011 | Mannaismaya Adventure's Blog
Mannaismaya Adventure's Blog
EXperience The Beauty of Indonesia !
Menu
Skip to content
5,008,269 spam
blocked by
Akismet
Archives
October 2015  (47)
September 2015  (54)
August 2015  (45)
July 2015  (55)
June 2015  (91)
May 2015  (98)
April 2015  (124)
March 2015  (130)
February 2015  (107)
January 2015  (117)
December 2014  (103)
November 2014  (101)
October 2014  (133)
September 2014  (141)
August 2014  (137)
July 2014  (134)
June 2014  (111)
May 2014  (100)
April 2014  (124)
March 2014  (115)
February 2014  (120)
January 2014  (125)
December 2013  (96)
November 2013  (77)
October 2013  (150)
September 2013  (132)
August 2013  (142)
July 2013  (154)
June 2013  (103)
May 2013  (103)
April 2013  (104)
March 2013  (122)
February 2013  (76)
January 2013  (107)
December 2012  (90)
November 2012  (91)
October 2012  (109)
September 2012  (94)
August 2012  (114)
July 2012  (97)
June 2012  (115)
May 2012  (102)
April 2012  (141)
March 2012  (148)
February 2012  (150)
January 2012  (154)
December 2011  (146)
November 2011  (134)
October 2011  (88)
September 2011  (97)
August 2011  (154)
July 2011  (104)
June 2011  (129)
May 2011  (108)
April 2011  (147)
March 2011  (216)
February 2011  (110)
January 2011  (128)
December 2010  (104)
November 2010  (128)
October 2010  (61)
September 2010  (59)
August 2010  (102)
July 2010  (50)
June 2010  (37)
Blog Stats
1,680,910 hits
September 2011
M
T
W
T
F
S
S
« Aug
Oct »
1 2 3 4
5 6 7 8 9 10 11
12 13 14 15 16 17 18
19 20 21 22 23 24 25
26 27 28 29 30
Blog Stats
1,680,910 hits
Blogroll
https://www.vahomeloancenters.org/.
Meta
Register
Log in
Entries
RSS
Comments
RSS
WordPress.com
Flag Counter
Daily Archives:
September 21, 2011
Operation Anaconda
September 21, 2011
by
mannaismayaadventure
3
Operation Anaconda
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia and others
Operation Anaconda  took place in early March 2002 in which the  United States military  and CIA Paramilitary Officers, working with allied Afghan military forces, and other North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) and non NATO forces attempted to destroy  al-Qaeda  and  Taliban  forces in the  Shahi-Kot Valley  and  Arma Mountains  southeast of  Zormat . This operation was the first large-scale battle in the  United States war in Afghanistan  since the  Battle of Tora Bora  in December 2001. This was the first operation in the Afghanistan theater to involve a large number of U.S. conventional (i.e. non- Special Operations Forces ) forces participating in direct combat activities.
Between March 2 and March 16, 2002 1,700 airlifted U.S. troops and 1,000 pro-government Afghan  militia  battled between 300 to 1,000 al-Qaeda and Taliban  fighters to obtain control of the valley. The Taliban and al-Qaida forces fired  mortars  and heavy  machine guns  from entrenched positions in the caves and ridges of the mountainous terrain at U.S. forces attempting to secure the area. Afghan Taliban commander  Maulavi   Saifur Rehman Mansoor  later led Taliban reinforcements to join the battle. U.S. forces had estimated the strength of the rebels in the Shahi-Kot Valley at 150 to 200, but later information suggested the actual strength was of 500 to 1,000 fighters. The U.S. forces estimated that they had killed at least 500 fighters over the duration of the battle.
Operation Anaconda
Part of the  War in Afghanistan (2001–present)
U S soldiers from Bravo Company, 1st Battalion,  187th Infantry Regiment  of the  101st Airborne Division , prepare to move out after being dropped off by a  Chinook  helicopter at the combat zone during Operation Anaconda.
Date
March 1–18, 2002
Location
Shahi Kot Valley ,  Paktia Province , Afghanistan
Coordinates :  33°22′N 69°11′E
Result
Coalition victory, Taliban evacuates but suffers heavy casualties.
Belligerents
Coalition:
United States
Afghan National Army
Canada
United Kingdom
Germany
France
Australia
New Zealand
Norway
Denmark
Taliban insurgents
al-Qaeda
Commanders and leaders
Franklin L. Hagenbeck
Saifur Rahman Mansoor
Strength
2,000
300–1,000
Casualties and losses
15 killed
82 wounded
500-800 killed
Background
A map showing the pre-operation plan.
In early 2002 increasing signals and human intelligence indicated a strong presence of Taliban and al-Qaeda fighters in the  Shahi-Kot Valley . Approximately 150 to 200 fighters were believed to be wintering and possibly preparing for a spring offensive in the valley. The signal intelligence also raised the possibility that high-value targets (HVTs) were present in the valley among which were  Jalaluddin Haqqani  and Saif Rahman. In late January and February plans were drawn up to assault the Shahi-Kot Valley using Afghan military forces (AMF) advised and assisted by U.S. special operators. Major General Franklin L. “Buster” Hagenback  was put in command of the operation.
Franklin L. Hagenback
Born November 25, 1949 (age 61)
LTG Franklin L. Hagenback
Nickname
“Buster”
Place of birth
Morocco
Allegiance
United States of America
Service/branch
United States Army
Years of service
1971-2010
Rank
Lieutenant General
Unit
10th Mountain Division
Commands held
Former Superintendent,  United States Military Academy
Battles/wars
Operation Enduring Freedom
Awards
Legion of Merit  (5)
Bronze Star  (2)
Expert Infantryman Badge
The plan called for an attack on the valley, along with units positioned in the mountains to the east to prevent escape into  Pakistan . The expectation was that fighters, as in the case of  Tora Bora  several months earlier, would flee in the face of an assault and that blocker groups would simply be able to round them up.
It was decided to use U.S. conventional infantry. The forces used, consisting of the 3rd Brigade of the  10th Mountain Division ,
10th Mountain Division
10th Mountain Division  shoulder sleeve insignia
Active
15 July 1943 – 30 November 1945
1 July 1948 – 14 June 1958
12 February 1985—Present
Country
United States of America
Branch
United States Army
Type
Light infantry
Role
Mountain Warfare
Arctic Warfare
Size
Division
Part of
XVIII Airborne Corps
Garrison/HQ
Fort Drum ,  New York
Motto
Climb to Glory [1]
Engagements
World War II
North Apennines
Po Valley
Somalia
Somalia
Haiti
War on Terrorism
Afghanistan Campaign
Iraq Campaign
Commanders
Current
commander
Major General   James L. Terry
Notable
commanders
George P. Hays  (1944—1945)
James Edward Moore (1950—1951)
Thomas L. Harrold  (1953–1954)
Philip De Witt Ginder (1954—1955)
Barksdale Hamlett  (1956—1957)
James L. Campbell  (1999—2001)
Franklin L. Hagenbeck (2001—2003)
Lloyd Austin  (2003—2005)
Michael L. Oates  (2007–2009)
Insignia
Distinctive Unit Insignia
Combat Service Identification Badge
led by Colonel  Frank Wiercinski , and 1st Battalion, 87th Regiment (1-87) of the  10th Mountain Division , led by Lieutenant Colonel  Paul LaCamera , to secure these blocking positions. In keeping with established strategy in Afghanistan, fire support was to be provided by  United States Air Force  units, rather than artillery. Further air support was provided by  US Navy  units and  French Air Force   Mirage 2000Ds .The amount of conventional assets allowed in Afghanistan was limited by  CENTCOM  and civilian defense leadership.The final plan foresaw two major forces: TF Hammer and TF Anvil. TF Hammer consisted of AMF and special operators as the primary effort to assault the Shahi-Kot Valley. TF Anvil consisted of TF Rakkasan and the 1-87 to set up blocking positions and prevent enemy forces from escaping. Special operations teams from the Advanced Force Operations  (AFO) detachment led by  Lieutenant Colonel   Pete Blaber  were to provide on-location reconnaissance in the Shahi-Kot Valley for the operation.
The Afghans had successfully defeated the Soviet Army twice in this valley, and were expecting events to pan out in a similar fashion.
Afghan bunker in the Gardez Valley inside the battlefield of Operation Anaconda. The bunker was used by American Soldiers as headquarters for all communications and attacks inside the battle zone
Image  http://www.globalsecurity.org/military/world/afghanistan/shahi-khot.htm
Prelude
The operation was composed of elements of the  United States   10th Mountain Division ,  101st Airborne Division , B Co. 159th Avn Rgt, 75th Ranger Regiment, the  US Special Operation Forces  groups to include elements of forces from  USSOCOM ,  JSOC  and CIA’s Special Activities Division ,  TF 11 ,  TF Bowie , and TF Dagger,  British   Royal Marines ,  Canada ‘s 3rd Battalion,  Princess Patricia’s Canadian Light Infantry , and  Joint Task Force 2 , the  Afghan National Army , the  German   KSK , the  Norwegian   FSK  and Marinejegerkommandoen , and elements of the Australian  Special Air Service Regiment , the  New Zealand Special Air Service  and Danish special forces from  Jægerkorpset  and the  Danish Frogman Corps .
Battle
A map of the ANACONDA area of operations.
November 2001
Afghanistan’s  Taliban  regime falls — some of the Taliban regime’s forces along with al-Qaeda elements continue to hold out in mountains.
1 March 2002
In eastern  Afghanistan , Operation Anaconda starts. US special operations forces infiltrate the area and set up observation posts. These forces consist of three teams: Juliet, India, and Mako 31. Teams Juliet and India are primarily from US Army  Delta Force , and they were to take positions to allow the north and south of the Shahi-Kot Valley and the approaches from  Gardez  to be observed. Mako 31, a small  SEAL  reconnaissance element from the  DEVGRU , was tasked to set up an observation post on the Finger, allowing recon of the TF Rakkasan landing zones. While attempting to reach their post, two snipers from Mako 31 observed a group of Taliban standing by a group of tents with a  DShK  machine gun position. This gun was emplaced in a position that would have allowed it to engage the  Chinook  helicopters bringing in the first wave of U.S. troops which would have been disastrous to the operation. Plans were made to destroy this emplacement at D-1 hour.
Bunker in the Gardez valley used by American Soldiers as headquarters for all communications and attacks inside the battle zone  Image  http://www.globalsecurity.org/military/world/afghanistan/shahi-khot.htm
2 March 2002
Canadian and US sniper teams and Afghan forces begin to sweep the  Shahi-Kot  valley area to root out rebel forces regrouping in the valley after the fall of the  Taliban  regime.
TF Hammer
Around midnight, the units of TF Hammer loaded into their vehicles and left their base in Gardez at  33°35′58″N 69°13′44″E  for the Shahi-Kot Valley. TF Hammer consisted of a large force Afghan militia led by  Zia Lodin  and the Special Forces A-teams Texas 14/ODA 594 and Cobra 72/ODA 372. The road was in poor condition and difficulties ensued. Several soldiers were injured after their  jingle trucks overturned, the commanders ordered the trucks to use their headlights, destroying any element of surprise. As TF Hammer continued, it suffered from a lack of unit cohesion because of the transportation difficulties. A convoy led by Army Chief Warrant Officer  Stanley L. Harriman  of the Third Special Forces Group split off from the main TF Hammer force to reach the assigned observation point. Grim 31, an  AC-130  aircraft providing fire support and reconnaissance for the assault, spotted Harriman’s convoy and, due to a failure in its  inertial navigation system , believed it was in a position away from friendly forces (this was due to a problem with the “glint” panels which should have identified the convoy as American). Grim 31 engaged the column, resulting in the death of Harriman and wounding several Afghan militia and U.S. special forces .
“A man’s got to know his limitations.”
I was 23 years old when I led a rifle platoon into the Shah-e-Kot Valley.  And while I was prepared for combat to some extent, no one ever tells you what massive bombing several hundred yards away looks or feels like.  And that’s what we were witnessing when we first approached our blocking position.  The photo above, captured by Specialist James Taylor (I photoshopped this one, but took the rest) depicts one of my soldiers watching one of the strikes.  This is how I  later described  our first night during the fighting. Image :
My first thought was: That’s a big fucking mountain.  My second was: It’s on fire.  There were trees with branches burning all along the north face of Takhur Gar.  I’m not sure if Captain K. consciously decided to stop, was ordered to stop, or just did it instinctively, but we did.  I took a knee with Taylor at my side.  Just then a bomb hit the side of the mountain, lighting up the entire sky.
I had never before seen anything like that.  I had never witnessed a shot fired in anger, much less, a bomb fall on people.  When the bomb hit, the sound was deafening.  It made the air vibrate.  For the split second in which the mountainside was alight from the explosion, I could see trees swaying from the shockwave.  I could see embers blowing off branches and into the snow.  Kneeling, I watched as two more bombs struck the mountain in quick succession, causing the same set of effects.  It was then that I noticed Sergeant Collins had moved forward from the back of the column.  He was kneeling next to me.  When he saw me looking at him through my night vision, he pointed to the mountain.  Then he whispered, measuring out each word carefully, “A man’s got to know his limitations.”
http://www.vetvoice.com/showDiary.do?diaryId=2395
The main body of TF Hammer reached its pre-assault point around 06:15 and waited for the expected “55 minute” aerial bombardment of enemy positions. Miscommunication between Texas 14 and higher command meant the bombardment was not that extensive and consisted of six bombs. This was due to a bomb getting stuck in the launch bay of the  B-1B  that was on its bomb run. The next aircraft in line waited for the B-1B to receive permission to jettison the bomb and go round again. During this time, both bombers plus the additional two  F-15E  planes claimed to have received a “knock off” call directing them to cease the bombardment. One of the F-15E pilots later acknowledged that this may have been a communication directing Grim-31 to cease fire. This lack of air support demoralized the Afghans and frustrated the special forces. The Afghan fighters, in trucks, were devastated by  mortar  fire registered in advance to strike fixed points on the road. The Afghans suffered forty or more deaths and injuries. At this point it became clear that Al Qaeda fighters had been expecting an attack. TF Hammer’s attack stalled short of entering the valley, due to unexpected heavy small arms and mortar fire, combined with the lack of expected close air support. These assets were tasked instead to the TF Anvil troops.
TF Anvil/TF Rakkasan
Soldiers from the  Norwegian Army Special Forces  unload from an  MH-47 Chinook  during Operation Anaconda
At H-Hour (06:30) the first “chalk” or wave of Rakkasans and Mountain troops landed via helicopter along the eastern and northern edges of the valley to await the fleeing fighters at their assigned blocking positions. The 101st and 10th Mountain troops came under fire almost immediately after landing on their way to their objectives, and remained pinned down by heavy mortar fire and locked in a fierce firefight throughout the day. Instead of 150-200 fighters in the valley as expected, post assessment held that the area contained up to 1,000 enemies dug in on the high ground around the valley.
This is my platoon taking up positions on our first full day in the valley.  The cloud you see is actually a bomb exploding.  And, like I said, there was an overabundance of friendly fire during Operation Anaconda which, fortunately, resulted in only one death.  By “overabundance,” I mean that only minutes after I took the photo above, we took a direct hit from a 2,000-lb. bomb dropped by an American F-16.  I heard it coming in first, and then saw it falling in the split-second before it hit.  By the grace of God or sheer dumb luck, the bomb malfunctioned and failed to detonate on impact.  It was a pretty significant emotional event for me and everybody else in the platoon  http://www.vetvoice.com
The troops of 1-87 in the southern  landing zones  (LZs) faced the heaviest fighting. The men on the floor of the valley then picked up and began to patrol north again moving another 50 or so meters when an RPG was fired off a low foothill to the east. This round closed in on around 10 men, including the two Australians and most of the American leadership, landing in the snow and mud right amongst them but failing to detonate. The AQ then opened up with a DHSKA as the troops on the ground ran for the only cover on the valley floor in what became known as “Hell’s Halfpipe”. The hot reception resulted in only two of the planned eight CH-47’s landing in the LZ. In this engagement, Staff Sergeant Andrzej Ropel, a Polish immigrant who was at the time not a citizen of the  United States , and Specialist William Geraci a native of Cleveland, Ohio, who was recently assigned to 1-87 from the Divisions  Long Range Surveillance Detachment , (LRSD) led the squad under fire to a ridgeline above the “Halfpipe”. Ropel was able to kill the enemy observer calling mortar fire into the “Halfpipe”, and he and his squad provided 1-87 reconnaissance of the surrounding terrain. Ropel was later awarded the  Bronze Star  with a valor device for his actions. The expectation of very limited enemy  indirect fire  capability meant that only a single  120mm mortar  was brought in the first wave. The primary fire support for the troops was provided by two  Apaches  of the 3-101’s Aviation Battalion [Eagle Attack] from the 159th Aviation Brigade. The Apaches destroyed some enemy positions harassing the U.S. and Afghan troops, but suffered serious battle damage that caused them to withdraw from the area early in the day.
A bunker in the Gardez Valley of Afghanistan destroyed by AH-64 Helicopters during Operation Anaconda  Image  http://www.globalsecurity.org/military/world/afghanistan/shahi-khot.htm
The Australian Special Air Service Regiment (SASR) also provided in-depth operational intelligence, and Signalman  Martin “Jock” Wallace  of 152 Signals Squadron (signals support unit for the SASR) was awarded the  Medal for Gallantry  for his actions during the fighting. When a mortar team from the US 10th Mountain Division was hit by enemy mortar fire Wallace put himself in harm’s way, moving under fire, collecting some of the wounded by dragging them into the creek bed, then dressing their wounds along with another SASR liaison officer. Throughout the day, the  TACP   forward air controllers  and  Special Forces   recce  teams that had infiltrated into the area the previous day called in airstrikes from  B-1 ,  B-52 ,  F-15 ,  F-18s  and  F-16  aircraft, inflicting heavy casualties on the  Taliban  and  Al Qaeda  fighters, but by no means silencing them. After nearly having their position overrun, the men in the southern LZs were in a desperate position, pinned down all day and short of ammunition. Salvation came after dark in the form of an  AC-130U Spooky  gunship that unlike the faster-moving jets during the day, was able to loiter over the area and provide sustained firepower so the men could be airlifted out under cover of darkness; the group suffered 28 wounded and none killed. At least 100  Taliban  and  Al-Qaeda  militants were reported killed during the days of fighting.
It might be hard to distinguish, but in this photo, you can see two of my soldiers in an observation post overlooking the Shah-e-Kot Valley below.  At the instant I snapped the photo, across the valley, on the ridgeline known as the “Whale” or the “Whale’s Back,” a U.S. bomb impacted and detonated.  Taliban and al Qaeda fighters were in the valley, dug into the Whale, and just to our south, dug in on the big mountain, Takhur Gar.
( http://www.vetvoice.com/showDiary.do?diaryId=2395 )
3 March and 4 March 2002
Battle of Takur Ghar
Main article:  Battle of Takur Ghar
Soldiers board a  Chinook  in Operation Anaconda
In the late evening of 3 March, Lieutenant Colonel Blaber received notice from Brigadier General  Gregory Trebon , commander of  TF 11 , that two SEAL teams commanded by Lieutenant Commander  Vic Hyder  were to be inserted into the Shahi-Kot Valley. The two SEAL teams, Mako 30 and Mako 31, planned to establish an observation point on either end of the valley. One team would move to the peak of  Takur Ghar , which commanded the southern approach to the Shahi-Kot valley. Due to time constraints, a helicopter insertion would be needed for the teams to reach the peak before dawn. LCDR Hyder requested authorization to shift the insertion 24 hours to the next evening but was directed that insertion was critical to SOF providing support to the Operation. Originally, an insertion point 1,300 metres (1,400 yd) east of the peak was identified, but due to uncontrollable time constraints, the SEALs of Mako 30 were forced into an insertion to the peak itself. Even though all overhead imagery showed no signs of life on the peak of Takur Ghar, LCDR Hyder gave the team final guidance per SOP that if any signs were seen, mission would be aborted.
The SEAL team, Mako 30, was picked up by an MH-47 Chinook helicopter, at 23:23 on 3 March. However, the Chinook experienced engine difficulties, and new MH-47s were dispatched to replace the original helicopters. This delay meant that the SEALs could not be inserted into the  LZ  east of the peak until 02:30 on 4 March, which did not allow enough time to reach the peak before daylight. Blaber was notified that the SEALs were forced to insert on the peak in order to fulfill the order to infil Mako 30 that night. Nail 22, an AC-130 gunship reconnoitered the peak, and, seeing no enemy activity, declared the mountain top secure. It was then called away to support other troops before the Chinook arrived.
For the first few days we were involved in the operation, the aerial attacks were non-stop.  And when they did stop, we filled the gap by launching mortar rounds ourselves.  This is two of my guys watching yet another strike.( http://www.vetvoice.com/showDiary.do?diaryId=2395 )
At approximately 03:00, the Chinook attempted to land atop the mountain. As they approached, the pilots and SEALs observed tracks in the snow and other signs of recent human activity. As they discussed a possible mission abort, the helicopter was met with effective RPG fire. Two Rocket Propelled Grenades slammed into the helicopter, shutting down one of its engines, the electric system, and the hydraulic systems and causing Petty Officer First Class  Neil C. Roberts  to fall out of the open ramp. Razor 03 attempted to return and retrieve him, but the damage prevented proper control and the helicopter was forced to crash-land in the valley below, approximately 4 miles away. Razor 04 returned to the peak in an attempt to rescue Roberts, offloading Mako 30. The team came under immediate fire, and Air Force  combat controller  Technical Sergeant  John A. Chapman  was believed killed and two SEALs wounded. Mako 30 was forced off the peak due to the heavy fire and damage done. The  Ranger  quick-reaction force located at  Bagram Air Base  and led by Captain Nate Self, was called in to search for the SEAL who fell out of the helicopter, now alone on top of the mountain.
Around this time command decided to change the frequencies for satellite radio communications which different units, including the AFO teams in their reconnaisance positions, were relying on to conduct and adapt the mission as the battle unfolded. One of the generals in overall charge of the events at Takur Ghar ordered the radio frequencies switched to prevent the plan being modified. Though the change may have been meant to enhance direct control of the rescue of the downed SEAL atop Takur Ghar, it had the critical effect of severely limiting communications between the different teams participating in the battle.
Like the sandstorm that eventually ground the Iraq invasion to a halt in March 2003, Operation Anaconda took a tactical pause when snow blanketed the battlefield.  It got really uncomfortable, really fast.  That’s a handful of my soldiers shifting positions.
By dusk it was snowing on our own ridgeline.  It started with big, fat flakes, before turning to the more plentiful small ones.  It snowed without respite for the duration of the night.  The guys on watch had it the worst–they had to sit up on the high ground with no cover against the wind.  Those of us in the low ground fared little better, with no shelter and few sleeping bags. ( http://www.vetvoice.com/showDiary.do?diaryId=2395 )
The SEAL team Mako 30, regrouped and was ferried by nearby units to a CH-47 to go back to Takur Ghar and search for Roberts. The AC-130 was then directed to attack the large groupings of enemy combatants currently exposed on top of the mountain, one to three minutes before the Mako 30 was scheduled to arrive. As the CH-47 neared their return, the AC-130 radioed on the new satellite frequency for confirmation to fire. They were unable to get a clear answer from the officer they reached and also were unable to connect with the AFO teams. As a result they did not fire and the CH-47 made a entry similar to the first, this time successfully landing the team on the ground amidst heavy machine gun and rocket fire while taking some casualties. They were able to establish communications via a line-of-sight radio with the teams of the AFO positioned around the Takur Ghar, taking advantage of the AFO’s knowledge of enemy movements in real time.
At 03:45, the Ranger quick reaction force was alerted by the DCG to the area. Though they weren’t given a specific mission, they were to establish communication for further instructions upon reaching Gardez, 10 minutes from the mountain. The  quick reaction force  (QRF) consisted of 19 Rangers, a  Tactical Air Control Party  ( Tacp ), and a three-man USAF  special tactics team  carried by two Chinooks, Razor 01 and Razor 02. As Air Force rules prohibited  AC-130  aircraft from remaining in hostile airspace in daylight after the crash of an AC-130 in  Khajfi  in the  Gulf War , the AC-130 support protecting Mako 30 was forced to leave before Razor 01 reached the LZ, although the leadership was aware that Razor 01 was incoming. Unfortunately, the Razor Chinooks had not been equipped with functioning satellite radios to maintain communication with the HQ in Bagram or, even more critically, the AFO Teams lead. Also unfortunate, the pilot of the Razor 01 was not told about the enemy’s anti-aircraft location on top of the mountain. Due to the satellite communications difficulties, Razor 01 was mistakenly directed to the “hot” LZ on the peak at  33°20′34″N 69°12′49″E . Because of this, the Razor 01 flew into the same enemy trap that the Seals had flown into, with no one able to communicate the reality of the situation.
Chattering Teeth  Miserably cold.
Around three in the morning, with teeth working like little off-white jackhammers, I give up on trying to rest.  I start pacing in small circles on the rocky, snow-covered, and now muddy ground.  I notice that this has become the first quiet night of the operation.  There is no crackle of machine-gun fire in the distance; there is no Spectre gunship on station searching for enemy positions with its infrared beam.  All has gone silent in the snowfall. A few minutes later Sergeant Pascoe joins me.  He is doing the same thing.  It is simply too cold to sleep or even to sit still.  We stand there conversing in whispers until the sky begins to lighten.  We talk for several hours, though now I can’t recall a word that was said.
We are technically in combat, but in reality we are just two shivering guys standing on a mountain, talking about life and wondering if it will end soon.
This all seems like a dream to me now. ( http://www.vetvoice.com/showDiary.do?diaryId=2395 )
At approximately 06:10, Razor 01 reached the landing zone. The aircraft immediately began taking fire, and the right door  minigunner , Sergeant Phillip Svitak, was killed by small arms fire. A rocket-propelled grenade then hit the helicopter, destroying the right engine and forcing it to crash land. As the Rangers and special tactics team exited the aircraft, Private First Class Matt Commons, posthumously promoted to Corporal, Sergeant Brad Crose, and Specialist Marc Anderson were killed. The surviving crew and quick-reaction force took cover in a hillock and a fierce firefight began. Razor 02, which had been diverted to Gardez as Razor 01 was landing on Takur Ghar, returned with the rest of the quick-reaction force and Lieutenant Commander Hyder at 06:25. With the help of the new arrivals and close air support, the force was able to consolidate its position on the peak. The QRF’s Chalk 2 moved up the mountain to assist Chalk 1. While air force jets provided suppressive fire on the mountain top with individual gun runs since Mako 30 was less than 100 metres (110 yd) north of the peak and Chalk 1 with its downed MH-47 was less than 100 m south of the peak. Hyder saw the need to assist Mako 31 who at that time had two dead and two injured, one of them non-ambulatory. It was obvious from this viewpoint that the proximity of friendly forces to the enemy positions was preventing sufficient suppressive firepower from being used due to danger close distance to both Mako 30 and QRF chalk 1. Hyder directed the Chalk 2 leader to continue mission up the mountain and moved, alone, to link up with Malo 30 in order to assist that team’s movement away from the peak thereby creating a better situation for air assets to support by fire. An enemy counterattack midday mortally wounded Senior Airman  Jason D. Cunningham , a  pararescueman . The wounded were refused  medevac  during the daylight hours, due to risk of another downed helicopter. Mako 30 and Lt. Cmdr. Hyder moved down the mountain with their wounded. Through threat of nearby enemy response elements, hypothermia and shock of wounded personnel, and across nearly 30″ of snow in extreme terrain, Mako 30 found a site suitable for an MH-47. The SEAL team set up defenses, attempted to warm the wounded, and waited for dark when a recovery would be attempted.
Operation Anaconda terrain model used at a press briefing at Bagram Arifield
http://www.globalsecurity.org/military/world/afghanistan/shahi-khot.htm
Australian SASR soldiers had infiltrated the area prior to the first helicopter crash undetected as part of a long range reconnaissance mission when the Chinooks went down. They remained undetected in an  observation post  through the firefight and proved critical in co-ordinating multiple Coalition air strikes to prevent the al-Qaeda fighters from overrunning the downed aircraft, to devastating effect. This, plus the actions of the two SASR officers working with the 10th Mountain Division, earned the commander of the Australian SASR force in Afghanistan the US Bronze Star for his unit’s outstanding contribution to the war on terrorism. Australian soldiers had utilised ‘virtual reality’ style software for mission rehearsal prior to insertion, and this contributed significantly to their situational awareness in the darkness and poor weather conditions. This was the first time this capability had been used for a live combat mission.
Image  http://www.globalsecurity.org/military/world/afghanistan/shahi-khot.htm
At around 20:00, the quick-reaction force and Mako 30 were exfiltrated from the Takur Ghar peak. As a result of this action, both Technical Sergeant Chapman and Senior Airman Cunningham were awarded the  Air Force Cross , the second highest award for bravery. US and Afghan sources believe at least 200 Taliban and  Al Qaida  fighters were killed during the initial assault and subsequent rescue mission.
Fate of Chapman and Roberts
It is not certain whether the soldiers died immediately or were killed by opposing soldiers. There is a possibility that Roberts was captured by the al Qaeda fighters, and executed later with a single shot to the back of the head (One of the feeds showed a group of 8-10 fighters huddling around what appeared to be a body; both GRIM 32 and MAKO 30 noted that an  IR   strobe  was active, a video feed showed the fighters passing the IR strobe around). [6]  This report has not been confirmed. Maj. Gen. Frank Hagenbeck did confirm that al-Qaeda fighters were seen (on live video feed from a  Predator  drone orbiting the firefight) chasing Roberts, and later dragging his body away from the spot where he fell. Another feed from the same predator showed a puff of heat [from a rifle] and the indistinct figure in front of it fall. Also, the quick-reaction soldiers reported fighters wearing Robert’s gear and finding “a helmet with a bullet hole in it, [from which] it was clear the last person [Roberts] to wear it had been shot in the head”.  Predator  drone footage also shows the possibility that Chapman was alive and fighting on the peak after the SEALs left rather than being killed outright as thought by Mako 30. A man was seen fighting in a bunker against multiple enemies until hit by an RPG. If this man was Chapman, he succumbed “a mere 45 seconds before… Razor 01 appeared over the mountaintop”.
Image  http://www.globalsecurity.org/military/world/afghanistan/shahi-khot.htm
Note: A paper written by Col. Andrew Milani (Former commander of the  160th Special Operations Aviation Regiment ) and Dr. Stephen D. Biddle entitled “Pitfalls of Technology: A Case Study of the battle of Takur Ghar” noted that the Predator was on station 90 minutes after Roberts had fallen; the images that were shot before the Predator had arrived were shot by GRIM-32’s Infrared Cameras. although this has not been confirmed by commanders.
10 March 2002
Major Bryan Hilferty states that the “major battle ended three or four days ago”. The U.S. sends 400 of its troops back to base.
12 March 2002
By 12 March, following the bombing, joint U.S. and Afghan forces swept through the valley and cleared it of remaining rebel forces, with little significant combat by 18 March. A total of 8 U.S. soldiers were killed and 82 wounded, along with several Afghan militiamen; U.S. estimates of other casualties vary, indicating rebel casualties between 500 and 800 and at least 14 civilian casualties. An undetermined number of rebels are said to have escaped the fighting through rugged terrain.
Image  http://www.globalsecurity.org/military/world/afghanistan/shahi-khot.htm
18 March 2002
General Tommy Franks declares Operation Anaconda over, terming it “an unqualified and complete success”.  Seymour Hersh  goes on to refute the official account, describing it as “in fact a debacle, plagued by squabbling between the services, bad military planning and avoidable deaths of American soldiers, as well as the escape of key al-Qaeda leaders, likely including Osama bin Laden.”
An enemy location is destroyed by smart bombs dropped by B-52 bombers in the Gardez Valley
Image  http://www.globalsecurity.org/military/world/afghanistan/shahi-khot.htm
Aftermath
The operation ran into problems from the outset. American Forces mistakenly landed in the middle of the valley, instead of the outside and were immediately caught in the Taliban’s kill zone. In the heavy fire fight that followed two Chinooks were shot down and a number of others were severely damaged. American forces eventually gained the upper hand, inflicting heavy casualties on the Taliban forces and pushing them out of the valley.
At the end of Operation Anaconda, the US and Afghan forces had succeeded at removing the majority of the Al-Qaeda and Taliban presence from the Shahi-Kot Valley. The US forces suffered 80 casualties in the operation, with 8 killed and 72 wounded. Estimates of Al-Qaida and Taliban casualties range from 100 to 1,000, with U.S. commanders favoring the higher estimates and Afghan commanders favoring the lower estimates. An unknown number of fighters were able to escape the Shahi-Kot Valley into Pakistan.
In the wake of Operation Anaconda, relations between US and the and UK forces on the ground soured when  Stars and Stripes , the magazine for American forces and their families, openly criticized the  Royal Marines  for returning “empty-handed” from their search for al-Qaeda and Taliban fighters claiming that Britain’s contribution to the campaign was “disappointing”. Relations were further soured with reports from a number of publications that  Osama bin Laden  might have escaped due to a substantial delay from the original H-hour of the deployment of American Forces.
Image  http://www.globalsecurity.org/military/world/afghanistan/shahi-khot.htm
Long-distance sniper record
The  record for the longest combat kill by a sniper  was temporarily set during Operation Anaconda by Canadian sniper Cpl  Rob Furlong , Princess Patricia’s  Canadian  Light Infantry (PPCLI). Using a McMillan long-range  TAC-50  .50-calibre rifle, he killed a Taliban fighter armed with an  RPK machine gun  at a confirmed distance of 2,430 metres (1.51 miles). (The previous record of 2,310 metres (7,580 ft) was set in the same month by  Arron Perry ).
Canadian Forces MacMillan Tac-50 with a Leupold Mark 4-16x40mm LR/T M1 Riflescope optical sight mounted, photographed at the Armed Forces display at the  en:Calgary Stampede  on 10 July 2006. This is the actual weapon Corporal Rob Furlong of the Princess Patricia’s Canadian Light Infantry (PPCLI) used to kill an enemy combatant from 2,430 meters.
The five-man Canadian  sniper  team, including MCpl  Graham Ragsdale  (Team Commander), MCpl Tim McMeekin, MCpl Arron Perry, Cpl Dennis Eason, and Cpl  Rob Furlong , killed over 20, and were awarded  Bronze Stars .
Reverse side of the operation
Operation Anaconda was met with criticism too. According to an interview of some soldiers of the German Special Forces KSK, the post-operation briefing was broken down by an argument between the KSK soldiers and U.S. soldiers. The cause of the conflict is said to have been the complaint of some U.S. soldiers that the KSK soldiers had just changed their position when a shepherd stumbled into their hideout instead of killing him. “Use your silenced gun, then move on”.
“Die Amis eliminieren solche Bedrohungen tatsächlich”, sagt ein Ex-Offizier des KSK. (…) Die Deutschen hätten auch erlebt, wie Amerikaner “bei der Operation Anaconda ganze Dörfer platt machten”(…): Hier Jungs, frei zum Plündern”. Der hochrangige Ex-KSK-Mann sagt: “Die Bilder von Abu Ghraib, das Foltern in irakischen Gefängnissen, haben mich absolut nicht überrascht.”
“The U.S. soldiers would in fact eliminate such ‘threats’, says a former KSK officer. (…) The Germans are quoted to have witnessed U.S. Forces flooring entire villages during Operation Anaconda: ‘Let’s go, free to pillage’ (…). A former KSK commander is quoted in the German magazine   Stern   to have said: ‘The pictures of Abu Ghraib, the torture in Iraqi prison camps, did absolutely not surprise me’ .
In pictures: Operation Anaconda
US-led forces are intensifying their assault on al-Qaeda
and Taleban positions in mountains near the city of Gardez.
The mission, called Operation Anaconda after the snake
which encircles and crushes its victims, has met fierce resistance.
More than 1,000 US troops have been deployed in the area
They are being supported by attack helicopters and bombers
Transport helicopters continually fly in fresh troops and supplies
But the enemy are proving hard to find
Advancing troops have come under guerilla-style attacks from al-Qaeda
and Taleban fighters
US forces have suffered their heaviest casualties of the war in this battle
The cold is another enemy
But US Defence Secretary Donald Rumsfeld says it is only a matter of time
before the allies are victorious
Source : http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/south_asia/1859888.stm
Damaged bunker on a ridge in the eastern Shah-i-Kot valley
Bombed-out building in the eastern Shahi Khot valley believed to have been occupied
by Taliban and Al Qaeda forces
Weapons cache found near a destroyed Al Qaeda/Taliban bunker in the eastern Shahi Khot valley
Ordnance and equipment found in the eastern Shahi Khot valley
Image  http://www.globalsecurity.org/military/world/afghanistan/shahi-khot.htm
Posted in
World's Military Corner .
Battle of Tora Bora
September 21, 2011
by
mannaismayaadventure
0
Battle of Tora Bora
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia and others.
The  Battle of Tora Bora  was a military engagement that took place in Afghanistan  in December 2001, during the opening stages of the  war in that country  launched following the  9/11  attacks on the United States. The U.S. and its allies believed that  al-Qaeda  leader  Osama bin Laden  was hiding in the rugged mountains at  Tora Bora , but despite overrunning the  Taliban  and al-Qaeda positions they failed to kill or capture him. Bin Laden was able to escape to Pakistan.
Battle of Tora Bora
Part of the  War in Afghanistan (2001-present)
Location of  Tora Bora , near the border to the  Kurram Agency  in the  Federally Administered Tribal Areas  of Pakistan. 34°07′N 70°13′E
Date
December 12-17, 2001
Location
Pachir Wa Agam District ,  Nangarhar province ,  Afghanistan
Result
Indecisive Coalition victory, capture of area by Coalition Forces, failure to kill or capture Osama bin Laden .
Belligerents
Coalition:
United States ,
United Kingdom ,
Germany ,
Canada ,
Northern Alliance
Taliban
Al-Qaeda
Commanders and leaders
Tommy Franks
Bismillah Khan
Osama bin Laden
Strength
~50 Members of U.S. 1st SFOD-D;
others from CIA SAD,
5th Special Forces Group,
160th SOAR,
U.K.SBS,
other coalition forces (aircraft);
~100-1,000 Northern Alliance fighters
~300-1,000
Casualties and losses
Coalition : None
Northern Alliance : Unknown
200 killed
Background
Tora Bora  ( Pashto : توره بوړه, English:  Black Cave ), known locally as  Spīn Ghar ( Pashto : سپین غر, English:  White Mountain ), is a cave complex situated in the White Mountains ( Safed Koh ) (Safed Koh is the Dari form for Spin Ghar) of eastern Afghanistan , in the  Pachir Wa Agam District  of  Nangarhar  province, approximately 50 km (31 mi) west of the  Khyber Pass  and 10 km (6.2 mi) north of the border of the Federally Administered Tribal Areas (FATA)  in  Pakistan . Tora Bora was known to be an important area for the Taliban and insurgency against the Soviet Union in the 80’s. Tora Bora and the surrounding White Mountain range had natural caverns formed by streams eating into the limestone.
Aerial view, 3D computer generated image. Tora Bora is in the upper right quadrant.
During the  US invasion of Afghanistan  it was one of the strongholds of the  Taliban  and its Al-Qaeda  allies. As the suspected hide-out of Al-Qaeda leader  Osama bin Laden , it was the location of the December 2001  Battle of Tora Bora .
Tora Bora was variously described by the western media to be an ‘impregnable cave fortress’ housing 2000 men complete with a hospital, a hydroelectric power plant, offices, a hotel, arms and ammunition stores, roads large enough to drive a tank into, and elaborate tunnel and ventilation systems. Both the British and American press published elaborate plans of the base which was readily accepted by the public. When presented with such plans in an  NBC  interview, the United States Secretary of Defense  Donald Rumsfield  said “This is serious business, there’s not one of those, there are many of those”.
When Tora Bora was eventually captured by the U.S. and Afghan troops, no traces of the supposed ‘fortress’ were found despite painstaking searches in the surrounding areas. Tora Bora turned out to be a system of small natural caves housing at most, 200 fighters. While arms and ammunition stores were found, there were no traces of the advanced facilities claimed to exist.
U S Special Forces in the foreground with their Afghan allies in the rear. The allies are wearing US-issued parkas. [Source: Robin Moore]
U.S. Special Forces  Operational Detachment Alpha (ODA) 572, were the only U.S. Special Forces operating in Tora Bora. In an interview published by the  Public Broadcasting Service , a Staff Sergeant described the caves as thus:
Again, with the caves, they weren’t these crazy mazes or labyrinths of caves that they described. Most of them were natural caves. Some were supported with some pieces of wood maybe about the size of a 10-foot by 24-foot room, at the largest. They weren’t real big. I know they made a spectacle out of that, and how are we going to be able to get into them? We worried about that too, because we see all these reports. Then it turns out, when you actually go up there, there’s really just small bunkers, and a lot of different ammo storage is up there.  – Jeff, Staff Sgt. ODA 572
It was also reported that in 2007, U.S. intelligence suspected that Osama bin Laden planned to meet with top Al Qaeda and Taliban commanders at Tora Bora prior to the launch of a possible attack in Europe or even the United States. Despite a commando operation that killed dozens of militants, bin Laden was not found.
Groups of reporters watch US bombing in the Tora Bora region. [Source: CNN]
In 2001, it was suspected to be in use by  al-Qaeda  and the location of bin Laden’s headquarters, variously described as a multi-storied cave complex harnessing hydroelectric power from mountain streams, or a lower-rise dwelling with hotel-like corridors capable of sheltering more than 1,000. It was also said to contain a large cache of ammunition, such as  missiles  left over from the 1980s.
The outposts in use in 2001 were originally built by extending and shoring up natural caves, with the assistance of the  CIA  in the early 1980s ( Operation Cyclone ) for use by  mujahideen  during the  Soviet invasion of Afghanistan , but several may date back to much earlier periods, as the difficult terrain has been used by tribal warriors fighting foreign invaders since ancestral times.
Battle
Air strikes on Tora Bora
At the end of 2001,  al-Qaeda fighters were still holding out in the mountains of the Tora Bora region.
On December 3, a group of 20 U.S. commandos  was inserted by helicopter to support the operation. On December 5, Afghan militia wrested control of the low ground below the mountain caves from al-Qaeda fighters and set up tank positions to blast enemy forces. The al-Qaeda fighters withdrew with  mortars ,  rocket launchers , and  assault rifles  to higher fortified positions and dug in for the battle. The CIA paramilitary officers, inserted with a highly trained Afghan force, were engaged by friendly fire, however stayed in the fight despite taking significant casualties.
Anti-Taliban tribal militia  continued a steady advance through the difficult terrain, backed by air strikes guided in by U.S. and British  Special Forces . Facing defeat, al-Qaeda forces negotiated a truce with a local militia commander to give them time to surrender their weapons. In retrospect, however, many believe that the truce was a ruse to allow important al-Qaeda figures, including Osama bin Laden, to escape.
US Special Forces unloading equipment in the Tora Bora region.[Source: Banded Artists Productions] (click image to enlarge)
On December 12, the fighting flared again, possibly initiated by a rear guard buying time for the main force’s escape through the  White Mountains  into the tribal areas  of  Pakistan . Once again, tribal forces backed by U.S. special operations troops and air support pressed ahead against fortified al-Qaeda positions in caves and bunkers scattered throughout the mountainous region. Twelve  British   SBS  commandos, and one  British   Royal Signals Specialist  from 63 Signals squadron now known as 18SFUK, accompanied the U.S. special operations forces in the attack on the cave complex at Tora Bora. Special Forces Operators of the German  KSK  took part in the battle as well. They were purportedly responsible for the protection of the flanks in the Tora Bora mountains and conducted reconnaissance missions.
Four prisoners captured at Tora Bora and shown to the media on December 17, 2001. [Source: Getty Images]
As the Taliban teetered on the brink of losing their last bastion, the U.S. focus increased on the Tora Bora. Local tribal militias, paid and organized by Special Forces and CIA SAD paramilitary operations officers, numbering over 2,000 strong, continued to mass for an attack as heavy bombing continued of suspected al-Qaeda positions.
By December 17, the last cave complex had been taken and their defenders overrun. No massive bunkers were found, only small outposts and a few minor training camps.
A search of the area by U.S. forces continued into January, but no sign of bin Laden or the al-Qaeda leadership emerged. Former  CIA officer  Gary Berntsen , who led the CIA team (consisting primarily of CIA Paramilitary Officers from  Special Activities Division ) in Afghanistan that was tasked with locating Osama bin Laden, claims in his 2005 book  Jawbreaker  that he and his team had pinpointed the location of Osama bin Laden. Also according to Berntsen, a number of al-Qaeda detainees later confirmed that bin Laden had escaped Tora Bora into Pakistan via an easterly route through snow covered mountains to the area of  Parachinar , Pakistan. He also claims that bin Laden could have been captured if  United States Central Command  had committed the troops that Berntsen had requested. Former CIA officer  Gary Schroen  concurs with this view and Pentagon documents are suggestive.
In an October 2004 opinion article in  The New York Times , Gen.  Tommy Franks  wrote,  “We don’t know to this day whether Mr. bin Laden was at Tora Bora in December 2001. Some intelligence sources said he was; others indicated he was in Pakistan at the time…Tora Bora was teeming with Taliban and Qaeda operatives … but Mr. bin Laden was never within our grasp.”  Franks, who retired in 2003, was the commander of U.S. forces in Afghanistan at the time. The last time Osama bin Laden was overheard on the  VHF  radio was on December 14, 2001. In 2008 Andy McNab, the pseudonym of a former SAS trooper echoed the claims of Berntsen, claiming that the Coalition were, “within a whisker” of capturing bin Laden at Tora Bora.
Many enemy fighters made their escape in the rough terrain and slipped away into the  tribal areas of Pakistan to the south and east . It is estimated that around 200 of the al-Qaeda fighters were killed during the battle, along with an unknown number of anti-Taliban tribal fighters. No coalition deaths were reported.
Fury’s account
A former  Delta Force  commander, using the pen name  “Dalton Fury”,  who was present at Tora Bora has written that bin Laden escaped into Pakistan on or around December 16, 2001. Fury gives three reasons for why he believes bin Laden was able to escape: (1) the US mistakenly thought that Pakistan was effectively guarding the border area, (2) NATO allies refused to allow the use of air-dropped GATOR mines , which would have helped seal bin Laden and his forces inside the Tora Bora area, and (3) over-reliance on native Afghan military forces as the main force deployed against bin Laden and his fighters. Fury states that the Afghan forces would usually leave the battlefield in the evenings to break their  Ramadan  fasts, thereby allowing the al-Qaeda forces a chance to regroup, reposition, or escape.
Fury, in an interview on  60 Minutes , stated that his Delta Force team and CIA Paramilitary Officers traveled to Tora Bora after the CIA pinpointed bin Laden’s location in that area. Fury’s team proposed an operation in which they would assault bin Laden’s suspected position from the rear, over the 14,000 foot high mountain separating Tora Bora from Pakistan. But, Fury’s proposal was denied by unidentified officials at higher headquarters for unknown reasons. Fury then proposed the dropping of GATOR mines in the passes leading away from Tora Bora, but this was also denied. Forced to approach the al-Qaeda forces from the front, at one point Fury reports that his team was within 2,000 meters of bin Laden’s suspected position, but withdrew because of uncertainty over the number of al-Qaeda fighters guarding bin Laden and a lack of support from allied Afghan troops.
American bombers strike Tora Bora
CHRIS HONDROS / GETTY IMAGES
A short time later, the Afghan military forces declared a cease fire with al-Qaeda. When Fury’s team prepared to advance again on the al-Qaeda forces anyway, Afghan soldiers drew their weapons on the US soldiers. After 12 hours of negotiations, the Afghans stood down, but this had allowed bin Laden and his bodyguards time to relocate. Fury reports that bin Laden, in his radio calls which began in the afternoon of December 13, was clearly under duress, reportedly saying to his fighters,  “the time is now, arm your women and children against the infidel” . Then, after a few hours of enduring massive and accurate aerial bombing, he broke radio silence again to say  “Our prayers were not answered. Times are dire and bad. We did not get support from the apostate nations who call themselves our Muslim brothers. Things might have been different” . Fury describes that Bin Laden’s final words to his fighters on that night were  “I’m sorry for getting you involved in this battle, if you can no longer resist, you may surrender with my blessing” .
A short time later, what was believed to be bin Laden and his bodyguards were observed entering a cave. Fury’s team called down several bombing attacks on the cave, and believed that they had killed bin Laden. Six months later, US and Canadian forces returned and checked several caves in the area, finding remains of al-Qaeda fighters, but not of bin Laden. Fury believes that bin Laden was injured in the shoulder by shrapnel during the bombing of the cave, but was then hidden, given medical care, and assisted out of the area into Pakistan by sympathetic local Afghans.
Guantanamo captives’ accounts of the battle
U.S. authorities have justified the continued detention of several dozen  Guantanamo captives  by the suspicion they had participated in the battle, had been present during the battle, or had passed through the area of the battle before or after it concluded.
An attack in the Tora Bora region of Afghanistan around the time Bin Laden slipped away in December 2001
During his testimony before a procedure convened under the authority of the  Office for the Administrative Review of Detained Enemy Combatants ,  Ayman Saeed Abdullah Batarfi , a  Yemeni  medical doctor described the conditions during the battle. He testified:
“Most of all the total guns in the Tora Bora area was 16 Kalashnikovs and there are 200 people,”
“He [Osama bin Laden] came for a day to visit the area and we talked to him and we wanted to leave this area. He said he didn’t know where to go himself and the second day he escaped and was gone.”
Aftermath
‹The  template   Rquote  is being  considered for deletion .›
“
…a severe and fierce bombardment began…not one second passed without warplanes hovering over our heads…[America] exhausted all efforts to blow up and annihilate this tiny spot – wiping it out altogether…Despite all this, we blocked their daily attacks, sending them back defeated, bearing their dead and wounded. And not once did American forces dare storm our position, what clearer proof of their cowardice, fear and lies concerning the myth of their alleged power is there?!
”
—Osama bin Laden, 2002
Following Tora Bora,  U.S.  and  UK  forces and their Afghan allies consolidated their position in the country. A  Loya jirga  or grand council of major Afghan factions, tribal leaders, and former exiles, an  interim Afghan government  was established in  Kabul under  Hamid Karzai . U.S. forces established their main base at  Bagram Air Base  just north of  Kabul .  Kandahar International Airport  also became an important U.S. base area. Several outposts were established in eastern provinces to hunt for  Taliban  and  Al-Qaeda fugitives. The number of  US troops  operating in the country would eventually grow to over 10,000.
Meanwhile, the Taliban and al-Qaeda had not given up. A US Senate report concluded that the failure to capture bin Laden “[laid] the foundation for today’s protracted Afghan insurgency and inflaming the internal strife now endangering Pakistan.” Al-Qaeda forces began regrouping in the  Shahi-Kot  mountains of  Paktia Province  throughout January and February 2002. A  Taliban  fugitive in Paktia province, Mullah Saifur Rehman, also began reconstituting some of his militia forces in support of the anti-US fighters. They totaled over 1,000 by the beginning of  Operation Anaconda  in March 2002. The intention of the insurgents was to use the region as a base area for launching guerrilla attacks and possibly a  major offensive  in the style of the  mujahedin  who  battled Soviet forces  during the 1980s.
In December 2009, the magazine  New Republic  published an article titled “The Battle for Tora Bora” by  Peter Bergen , an expert on al-Qaeda and Osama bin Laden, whose book  “ Holy War, Inc: Inside the Secret World of Osama bin Laden “  came out soon after 9/11. In his critique Bergen reconstructs the encounter with Osama at Tora Bora. He termed the rebuttal by Tommy Franks, the then US Army chief, for 800 Army rangers from nearby bases to assault the complex of caves where Osama was supposedly hiding  “one of the greatest military blunders in recent US history” . Bergen argued that the United States failed to capture Osama and allowed the Taliban to return from the cold—regrouped, rejuvenated and remarkably stronger—while US officials were diverted to Iraq.
On May 2, 2011, Osama bin Laden was confirmed to have died in a  United States Navy SEAL raid on a compound  in the city of Abbottabad ,  Pakistan , more than nine years after the failed attempts to capture or kill him in the Battle of Tora Bora.
Posted in
World's Military Corner .
Amazing Nature Photos
September 21, 2011
by
mannaismayaadventure
0
Amazing Nature Photos
Stellar images from National Geographic readers
With the National Geographic Your Shot feature, readers and amateur photographers can submit their images for possible publication on the website and in the magazine. Check out this slideshow to see some of the best photos from early September. “Having spent the better part of my life living in the Midwest, I’m no stranger to severe weather. So it means something when I say that this storm rolling over the Eastern Plains of Colorado was the worst I’ve ever been caught in. After dodging funnel clouds, 70 mph winds, possible tornadoes, extreme flash flooding, lightning strikes and a road that washed clear away as I drove over it, I still found myself wondering what the light would do after the storm passed. This was the result.” (Photograph Courtesy Nate Zeman / National Geographic Your Shot)
This shot was taken during our family tour [of] Iceland. The waterfall is called Seljalandsfoss. During this trip we used a motor home, so we camped about 500 meters from the [beautiful] waterfall. Before our dinner at 10 p.m., I took this image with the sunset colors.” Cast your vote and weigh in on the best shots at http://ngm.nationalgeographic.com/your-shot/voting-machine . (Photograph Courtesy Amnon Eichelberg / National Geographic Your Shot)
“As the three cheetah cubs at Phinda Game Reserve (KwaZulu Natal, South Africa) played around their watchful mother, one by one they ran up the tree branch and lined up in a beautiful pose, as if to say “we are ready for primetime!” (Photograph Courtesy Dumith Fernando / National Geographic Your Shot)
With the onset of spring, male western grey kangaroos fight to establish their place in the mob.” You can submit your own photos at http://ngm.nationalgeographic.com/your-shot/your-sho t . (Photograph Courtesy Robert McLean / National Geographic Your Shot)
Taken at Aquria KLCC Malaysia” See the twelve best shots daily at http://ngm.nationalgeographic.com/your-shot/daily-dozen . (Photograph Courtesy Mohd Nazrul / National Geographic Your Shot)
At the elephant orphanage in Nairobi, Kenya, the baby elephants play for an hour while the public looks on. Flopping about, cavorting, and managing that trunk takes up lots of energy and provides wonderful amusement for onlookers.” (Photograph Courtesy Patricia Mulkeen / National Geographic Your Shot)
A crocodile in a lake in Yucatan in Mexico is resting before going out for dinner.” See more amazing photos that you can use for wallpaper on your desktop at http://ngm.nationalgeographic.com/your-shot/weekly-wrapper . (Photograph Courtesy onas Egfors / National Geographic Your Shot)
Posted in
Relaxing Corner .
Earth to satellite: When will you hit — and where?
September 21, 2011
by
mannaismayaadventure
0
Earth to satellite: When will you hit — and where?
By MARCIA DUNN – AP Aerospace Writer | AP –  2 hrs 6 mins ago
IN SPACE – SEPTEMBER 14: In this handout from the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA), the Upper Atmosphere Research Satellite (UARS) is deployed from the Space Shuttle Discovery in September 14, 1991 in space. According to NASA, the 12,500 pound satellite will fall from orbit into earth’s atmosphere anytime between September 22 through 24. It is estimated that the space craft will break up into about 100 pieces, with an estimated 26 of which could hit the earth over a possible 500 mile debris field. (Photo by NASA via Getty Images)
CAPE CANAVERAL, Florida (AP) — NASA scientists are doing their best to tell us where a plummeting six-ton satellite will fall later this week. It’s just that if they’re off a little bit, it could mean the difference between hitting Florida or landing on New York. Or, say, Iran or India.
Pinpointing where and when hurtling space debris will strike is an imprecise science. For now, scientists predict the earliest it will hit is Thursday U.S. time, the latest Saturday. The strike zone covers most of Earth.
Not that citizens need to take cover. The satellite will break into pieces, and NASA put the chances that somebody somewhere will get hurt at just 1-in-3,200.
As far as anyone knows, falling space debris has never injured anyone. Nor has significant property damage been reported. That’s because most of the planet is covered in water and there are vast regions of empty land.
If you do come across what you suspect is a satellite piece, NASA doesn’t want you to pick it up. The space agency says there are no toxic chemicals present, but there could be sharp edges. Also, it’s government property. It’s against the law to keep it as a souvenir or sell it on eBay. NASA’s advice is to report it to the police.
In this image provided by NASA this is the STS-48 onboard photo of the Upper Atmosphere Research Satellite (UARS) in the grasp of the RMS (Remote Manipulator System) during deployment, from the shuttle in September 1991. The satellite is 35 feet long, 15 feet in diameter, weighs 13,000 pounds. U.S. space officials say they expect a dead satellite to fall to Earth in about a week. NASA has been watching the 6-ton satellite closely. NASA scientists are doing their best to tell us where a plummeting 6-ton satellite will fall later this week. It’s just that if they’re off a little bit, it could mean the difference between hitting Florida or New York. Or, say, Iran or India. (AP Photo/NASA)
The 20-year-old research satellite is expected to break into more than 100 pieces as it enters the atmosphere, most of it burning up. Twenty-six of the heaviest metal parts are expected to reach Earth, the biggest chunk weighing about 300 pounds (136 kilograms). The debris could be scattered over an area about 500 miles (800 kilometers) long.
Jonathan McDowell, for one, isn’t worried. He is in the potential strike zone — along with most of the world’s 7 billion citizens. McDowell is with the Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics in Cambridge, Massachusetts.
This screen grab image provided by NASA shows UARS attached to the robotic arm of the space shuttle Discovery during mission STS-48 in 1991, when UARS was deployed. NASA scientists are doing their best to tell us where a plummeting 6-ton satellite will fall later this week. It’s just that if they’re off a little bit, it could mean the difference between hitting Florida or New York. Or, say, Iran or India. (AP Photo/NASA)
“There’s stuff that’s heavy that falls out of the sky almost every year,” McDowell says. So far this year, he noted, two massive Russian rocket stages have taken the plunge.
As for the odds of the satellite hitting someone, “it’s a small chance. We take much bigger chances all the time in our lives,” McDowell says. “So I’m not putting my tin helmet on or hiding under a rock.”
All told, 1,200 pounds (544 kilograms) of wreckage is expected to smack down — the heaviest pieces made of titanium, stainless steel or beryllium. That represents just one-tenth the mass of the satellite, which stretches 35 feet (10.7 meters) long and 15 feet (4.6 meters) in diameter.
IN SPACE – UNDATED: In this handout from the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA), the Upper Atmosphere Research Satellite (UARS) sits in the cargo bay of the Space Shuttle Discovery in September, 1991 in space. According to NASA, the 12,500 pound satellite will fall from orbit into earth’s atmosphere anytime between September 22 through 24. It is estimated that the space craft will break up into about 100 pieces, with an estimated 26 of which could hit the earth over a possible 500 mile debris field. (Photo by NASA via Getty Images)
The strike zone straddles all points between latitudes 57 degrees north and 57 degrees south. That’s as far north as Edmonton and Alberta, Canada, and Aberdeen, Scotland, and as far south as Cape Horn, the southernmost tip of South America. Every continent but Antarctica is in the crosshairs.
IN SPACE – SEPTEMBER 14: In this handout from the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA), the Upper Atmosphere Research Satellite (UARS) is deployed from the Space Shuttle Discovery in September 14, 1991 in space. According to NASA, the 12,500 pound satellite will fall from orbit into earth’s atmosphere anytime between September 22 through 24. It is estimated that the space craft will break up into about 100 pieces, with an estimated 26 of which could hit the earth over a possible 500 mile debris field. (Photo by NASA via Getty Images)
Back when UARS, the Upper Atmosphere Research Satellite, was launched to study the ozone layer in 1991, NASA didn’t always pay attention to the “what goes up must come down” rule. Nowadays, satellites must be designed either to burn up on re-entering the atmosphere or to have enough fuel to be steered into a watery grave or up into a higher, long-term orbit.
The International Space Station — the largest manmade structure ever to orbit the planet — is no exception. NASA has a plan to bring it down safely sometime after 2020.
Russia’s old Mir station came down over the Pacific, in a controlled re-entry, in 2001. But one of its predecessors, Salyut 7, fell uncontrolled through the atmosphere in 1991. The most recent uncontrolled return of a large NASA satellite was in 2002.
The most sensational case of all was Skylab, the early U.S. space station whose impending demise three decades ago alarmed people around the world and touched off a guessing game as to where it might land. It plummeted harmlessly into the Indian Ocean and onto remote parts of Australia in July 1979.
The $740 million UARS was decommissioned in 2005, after NASA lowered its orbit with the little remaining fuel on board. NASA didn’t want to keep it up longer than necessary, for fear of a collision or an exploding fuel tank, either of which would have left a lot of space litter.
Predicting where the satellite will strike is a little like predicting the weather several days out, says NASA orbital debris scientist Mark Matney.
Experts expect to have a good idea by Thursday of when and where UARS might fall, Matney says. They won’t be able to pinpoint the exact time, but they should be able to narrow it to a few hours.
UNDATED: In this artist illustration handout from the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA), the Upper Atmosphere Research Satellite (UARS) is seen. According to NASA, the 12,500 pound satellite will fall from orbit into earth’s atmosphere anytime between September 22 through 24. It is estimated that the space craft will break up into about 100 pieces, with an estimated 26 of which could hit the earth over a possible 500 mile debris field. (Illustration by NASA via Getty Images)
Given the spacecraft’s orbital speed of 17,500 mph (28,162 kph), or 5 miles (8 kilometers) per second, a prediction that is off by just a few minutes could mean a 1,000-mile (1,609-kilometer) error. It probably won’t be clear where it fell until afterward, Matney says.
If it happens in darkness, it should be visible.
“If someone is lucky enough to be near the re-entry at nighttime, they’ll get quite a show,” says Matney, who works at Johnson Space Center in Houston, also in the potential strike zone.
Space junk in general is on the rise, much of it destroyed or broken satellites and chunks of used rockets. More than 20,000 manmade objects at least 4 inches (10.2 centimeters) in diameter are being tracked in orbit.
It’s mostly a threat to astronauts in space, rather than people on Earth. In June, the six residents of the International Space Station took shelter in their docked Soyuz lifeboats because of passing debris. The unidentified object came within 1,100 feet (335.2 meters) of the complex, the closest call yet.
Posted in
THE UNIVERSE & SPACE SCIENCE .
U.S. builds drone bases in Africa, Arab Peninsula: report
September 21, 2011
by
mannaismayaadventure
0
U.S. builds drone bases in Africa, Arab Peninsula: report
By JoAnne Allen | Reuters –  2 hrs 6 mins ago
WASHINGTON (Reuters) – The United States is building a ring of secret drone bases in the Horn of Africa and the Arabian Peninsula as part of an aggressive campaign against al Qaeda affiliates in Somalia and Yemen, The Washington Post reported on Wednesday, citing U.S. officials.
One base for the unmanned aircraft is being established in Ethiopia and another base has been installed in the Seychelles in the Indian Ocean, the newspaper reported.
A small fleet of “hunter-killer” drones resumed operations in the islands this month after an experimental mission demonstrated that the unmanned drones could effectively patrol Somalia from there, the report said.
The U.S. military also has flown drones over Somalia and Yemen from bases in the African nation of Djibouti and the CIA is building a secret airstrip in the Arabian Peninsula to deploy drones over Yemen, the article said.
The White House declined comment on the report.
The United States and Seychellois officials have previously acknowledged the drones’ presence in the island but have said that their primary mission was to track pirates.
But classified U.S. diplomatic cables show that the unmanned aircraft have also conducted counterterrorism missions over Somalia, about 800 miles to the northwest, the Post reported.
The newspaper said the cables, obtained by the anti-secrecy group WikiLeaks, reveal that U.S. officials asked leaders in the Seychelles to keep the counterterrorism missions secret.
(Reporting by JoAnne Allen; editing by Vicki Allen)
Posted in
World's Military Corner .
What does it feel like to fly over planet Earth?
September 21, 2011
by
mannaismayaadventure
0
What does it feel like to fly over planet Earth?
Posted on  September 21, 2011  by  the truth behind the scenes |
A time-lapse taken from the front of the International Space Station as it orbits our planet at night.
This movie begins over the Pacific Ocean and continues over North and South America before entering daylight near Antarctica.
Visible cities, countries and landmarks include (in order) Vancouver Island, Victoria, Vancouver, Seattle, Portland, San Francisco, Los Angeles. Phoenix. Multiple cities in Texas, New Mexico and Mexico. Mexico City, the Gulf of Mexico, the Yucatan Peninsula, El Salvador, Lightning in the Pacific Ocean, Guatemala, Panama, Columbia, Ecuador, Peru, Chile, Lake Titicaca, and the Amazon.
Also visible is the earths ionosphere (thin yellow line), a satellite (55sec) and the stars of our galaxy.
Smooth Version:  http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PdDEpC0uHWI
25fps Version
http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LcVVOnHfN1I&feature=related
Raw data was downloaded from
The Gateway To Astronaut Photography of Earth
http://eol.jsc.nasa.gov/sseop/mrf.htm
You can see more beautiful images of our universe at;
http://infinity-imagined.tumblr.com/
How big is the universe?
http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0Tqdc6x7sZ
Source and author:  yesterday2221  (youtube)
Posted in
THE UNIVERSE & SPACE SCIENCE .
Recently discovered species of raptor validates the fears of anyone who ever watched Jurassic Park
September 21, 2011
by
mannaismayaadventure
0
By Robert T. Gonzalez
Recently discovered species of raptor validates the fears of anyone who ever watched  Jurassic Park
One of the most recognizable characteristics of raptor dinosaurs — the clever, pack-hunting carnivores immortalized in the  Jurassic
Park  movie series — is the enormous, scythe-like talon located on the second digit of each of their feet. But the true function of this intimidating anatomical feature has puzzled paleontologists for years.
Now, by examining the fossilized remains of a recently discovered species of raptor, scientists have found new evidence that the claw was, in fact, used as a weapon.
The newly discovered raptor species belongs to a rare group of feathered dinosaurs known as troodontid therapods. Historically speaking, very little research has been done on troodontids owing to a lack of fossil material; as a point of reference, the new species — named  Talos sampsoni  (artist’s rendition below) — is the first definitive troodontid theropod to be named from the late Cretaceous of North America in over three quarters of a century.
“Finding a decent specimen of this type of dinosaur inNorth Americais like a lighting strike,” said Lindsay Zanno, lead author on the paper classifying the specimen. “It’s a random event of thrilling proportions.”
But just as exciting as the discovery of  T. sampsoni  itself is what its remains reveal about raptor behavior, because it just so happens that this newly discovered dinosaur died nursing an injury — an injury to one of its enormous, hook-like second digits.
“When we realized we had evidence of an injury, the excitement was palpable,” explained Zanno. “An injured specimen has a story to tell.”
In the case of  T. sampsoni , the scientists claim that the injury to the raptor’s toe tells a tale of action and active use. Examination of the individual bones in the raptor’s fossilized foot using a high-resolution CT scanner similar to the one your doctor uses to image bones and organs in your body — pictured up top — revealed that the injury was restricted to the second toe, and had likely suffered from an infection after being either bitten, fractured, or both.
According to Zanno, these injuries can tell us a lot about the claw’s function:
People have speculated that the talon on the foot of raptor dinosaurs was used to capture prey, fight with other members of the same species, or defend the animal against attack. Our interpretation supports the idea that these animals regularly put this toe in harm’s way.
Our data support the idea that the talon of raptor dinosaurs…was an instrument meant for inflicting damage.
The teams in-depth analysis of the fossilized remains are published in this week’s issue of PLoS ONE  (no subscription required)
Posted in
SCIENCE, GEOLOGY, HEALTH, ENVIRONMENT,TECHNOLOGY, Anthropology & Archaeology Corner .
Post navigation
←
Older posts
Categories
Anthropology & Archaeology Corner
Antiques Corner
Batik of Indonesia
Business News
Culinary Tour
Cultures of Indonesia
Departures From Jakarta Km Distance To Other City , Tourist Map
Eagle's Nest Castles
EDUCATION, BOOK, MOVIE, MUSIC & SPORT CORNER
ENVIRONMENT
Eruption of Mount Merapi Central Java – Earth Quake & Tzunami at Mentawai Island
FOREIGN EMBASSY OFFICE AT JAKARTA & List of Attorneys, Consular District of Jakarta Indonesia
Genghis Khan
GEOLOGY
HANDYCRAFT OF INDONESIA
HEALTH
HISTORY OF INDONESIA
History of Yogyakarta Hadiningrat Kingdom
INDONESIA, My Beautiful Country
INDONESIAN TRIBES
List of Hotel
Mount Trekking
NEWS
News and Events
PHOTOS GALLERY : Tour D'Java
PILGRIMAGE TOURS of JERICHO & Others
PILGRIMAGE TOURS OF JORDAN
Prince William & Kate Middleton , The Royal Wedding of the year
Relaxing Corner
SCIENCE
SCIENCE, GEOLOGY, HEALTH, ENVIRONMENT,TECHNOLOGY, Anthropology & Archaeology Corner
TECHNOLOGY
The Art
The Beautiful Churches Around The World and in Indonesia
The Composers
The History of Italy
The History of Ottoman Empire , Saladin of Egypt., Istanbul, and the fall of Constantinople
The Most Beautiful Mosques Around The World & The Most Magnificent Mosques in Indonesia
The National Heroes Of Indonesia
THE UNIVERSE & SPACE SCIENCE
The World's History
The World's Magnificent Pagodas, Temples, Palaces etc
Tour Bali Island
Tour Central Java
Tour East Java
Tour Lombok, Sumbawa, Sumba, Flores Island
Tour The Exotic Raja Ampat Island
Tour West Java
Underwater Archaeology
Vehicle registration plates of Indonesia
World's Military Corner
Follow Blog via Email
Enter your email address to follow this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Join 396 other followers
Pages
About
Contact
Home
LIST OF PACKAGES TOUR (PRICES)
Search
Blog at WordPress.com .
|
The Sunspot Theme .
Mannaismaya Adventure's Blog
Create a free website or blog at WordPress.com .
The Sunspot Theme .
Follow
Follow “Mannaismaya Adventure's Blog”
Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.
Join 396 other followers
Build a website with WordPress.com
Add your thoughts here... (optional)
Post to
Cancel