War in Afghanistan (2001–present) | 2eyeswatching
2eyeswatching
Unique By Nature
Archive for War in Afghanistan (2001–present)
War in Afghanistan (2001–present)
Posted in
MILITARY CORNER
with tags
nato isaf ,
War in Afghanistan (2001–present)
on September 17, 2012 by 2eyeswatching
Post 1252
War in Afghanistan (2001–present)
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia and others.
War in Afghanistan
Part of the War in Afghanistan (1978 – present)  and the War on Terror
Clockwise from top-left:
British Royal Marines take part in the clearance of Nad-e Ali District of Helmand province; two F/A-18 strike fighters conduct combat missions over Afghanistan; an anti Taliban fighter during an operation to secure a compound in Helmand Province; A French soldier patrols a valley in Kapisa province; U.S. marines prepare to board buses shortly after arriving in southern Afghanistan; Taliban fighters in a cave hideout; U.S. soldiers prepare to fire a mortar during a mission in Paktika province.
Date
7 October 2001 –
ongoing
(10 years, 11 months, 1 week and 1 day)
Location
Afghanistan
Status
Conflict ongoing
Fall of The Taliban Goverment
New Afghan Government and Security Force
Return of more than 5.7 million refugees to Afghanistan
Belligerents
Coalition:
NATO – ISAF(112,579)
United States – 74,400
United Kingdom – 9,500
Germany – 4,645
Italy – 4,000
France – 2,453
Poland – 2,432
Romania – 1,808
Australia – 1,550
Spain – 1,500
Turkey – 1,271
40 other countries
Afghanistan
Operation Enduring Freedom participants
2001:
United States
United Kingdom
Australia
Northern Alliance
Uzbekistan
Insurgent groups:
Taliban
al-Qaeda
IMU
Harkat-ul-Jihad-al-Islami
HI-Gulbuddin
HI-Khalis
Haqqani network
Lashkar-e-Taiba
Lashkar-e-Islam
Abdullah Azzam Shaheed Brigade
JeM [4]
ETIM
TTP
IEW
Sipah-e-Sahaba Pakistan
TNSM
IJU
Lashkar-e-Jhangvi
Harkat-ul-Mujahideen
Mullah Dadullah Front
2001:
Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan
al-Qaeda
Commanders and leaders
Barack Obama
David Cameron
Hamid Karzai
Mohammed Omar
Strength
NATO – ISAF :
112,579
Afghan National Security Forces :
380,586
Total: 493,165
(2012-05-15)
Taliban: ~36,000
Al-Qaeda: 20,000
Hezbi Islami : 1,000
IMU : 5,000–10,000
Haqqani network: 4,000-15,000
TTP : 30,000–35,000
TNSM :4,500
Total: 80,000–100,000
(2010)
Casualties and losses
Coalition :
Killed:
3,085
(USA: 2,024, GBR: 430, CAN: 158, FRA: 88, DEU: 53, Others: 335) [
Wounded:
23,500+
Missing/captured
(U.S.): 1Contractors :
Killed:
1,131 [
Wounded & injured:
15,000+
Afghan Security Forces :
10,086+ killed
Afghan Northen Aliance :
200 Killed
Total killed: 14,449+
No reliable estimate
Civilians killed: 12,500–14,700 (2001–2011)
Further information:
The
War in Afghanistan (2001–present)
began on October 7, 2001, as the armed forces of the United States, the United Kingdom, Australia and the Afghan  United Front(Northern Alliance) launched Opreration Enduring Freedom. The primary driver of the invasion was the   September 11 attacks on the United States, with the stated goal of dismantling the  al-Qaeda terrorist organization and ending its use of Afghanistan as a base. The United States also said that it would remove the  Taliban Regimefrom power and create a viable democratic state. More than a decade into the war, NATO forces continue to battle a widespread Taliban insurgency and the war has expanded into the  tribal area of neighboring Pakistan.The War in Afghanistan is also the  United State’ longest running war.
The preludes to the war were the assassination of anti-Taliban leader Ahmand Shah Massoud on 9 September 2001, and the 11 September attacks on the United States, in which nearly 3000 civilians died in New York City, Arlington,Virginia, and Shankville, Pensylvania.  The United States identified members of al-Qaeda, an organization based in, operating out of, and allied with the Taliban’s Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan,  as the perpetrators of the attacks.
In the first phase of Operation Enduring Freedom, ground forces of the Afghan United Front working with teams of U.S. and British Special Forces and with U.S. air support, ousted the Taliban regime from power in Kabul and most of Afghanistan in a matter of weeks. Most of the senior Taliban leadership fled to neighboring Pakistan, some being flown out in the Kunduz airlift.The democratic
Islamic Republic of Afghanistan
was established and an interim government under
Hamid Karzai
was created which was also democratically elected by the Afghan people in the 2004 general elections. The
International Security Assistance Force
(ISAF) was established by the
UN Security Council
at the end of December 2001 to secure
Kabul
and the surrounding areas.
NATO
assumed control of ISAF in 2003. ISAF includes troops from 42 countries, with NATO members providing the core of the force. The stated aim of the invasion was to find
Osama bin Laden
and other high-ranking al-Qaeda members to be put on trial, to destroy the organization of al-Qaeda, and to remove the Taliban regime which supported and gave safe harbor to it. In 2003, Taliban forces started an
insurgency
campaign against the democratic Islamic Republic and the presence of
ISAF -troops in Afghanistan.Their headquarters are alleged to be in or near
Quetta , Pakistan.Since 2006, Afghanistan has experienced a dramatic increase in Taliban-led insurgent activity.
Historical background (1996–2001)
Taliban Emirate vs United Front
In late 1994, most of the militia factions which had been fighting in the battle for control of Kabul were defeated militarily by forces of the Islamic State’s Secretary of Defense Ahmad Shah Massoud. Bombardment of the capital came to a halt.Massoud tried to initiate a nationwide political process with the goal of national dconsolidation and democratic elections, also inviting the Taliban to join the process. The Taliban declined.
The Taliban started shelling Kabul in early 1995 but were defeated by forces of the Islamic State government under Ahmad Shah Massoud. ( see video )
Amnesty International , referring to the Taliban offensive, wrote in a 1995 report:
This is the first time in several months that Kabul civilians have become the targets of rocket attacks and shelling aimed at residential areas in the city.
—Amnesty International,  1995
The Taliban’s early victories in 1994 were followed by a series of defeats that resulted in heavy losses. Pakistan provided strong support to the Taliban. Many analysts like
Amin Saikal
describe the Taliban as developing into a
proxy
force for Pakistan’s regional interests, which the Taliban deny. On 26 September 1996, as the Taliban with military support by Pakistan and financial support by Saudi Arabia prepared for another major offensive, Massoud ordered a full retreat from Kabul. The Taliban seized Kabul on 27 September 1996, and established the Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan. They imposed on the parts of Afghanistan under their control their political and judicial interpretation of Islam issuing edicts forbidding women to work outside the home, attend school, or to leave their homes unless accompanied by a male relative.
Ahmad Shah Massoud and Abdul Rashid Dostum, two former archnemeses, created the United Front (Northern Alliance) against the Taliban that were preparing offensives against the remaining areas under the control of Massoud and those under the control of Dostum. ( see video ) The United Front included beside the dominantly
Tajik
forces of Massoud and the
Uzbek
forces of Dostum,
Hazara
factions and
Pashtun
forces under the leadership of commanders such as
Abdul Haq
and Haji
Abdul Qadir .
The Taliban defeated Dostum’s Junbish forces militarily by seizing Mazar-i-Sharif in 1998. Dostum went into exile.
Former Pakistani President
Pervez Musharraf
was responsible for sending thousands of Pakistanis to fight alongside the Taliban and Bin Laden against the forces of Massoud.
According to a 55-page report by the United Nations, the Taliban, while trying to consolidate control over northern and western Afghanistan, committed systematic massacres against civilians compared by United Nations officials to the ones committed in Bosnia.U.N. officials stated that there had been “15 massacres” between 1996 and 2001. They also said, that “[t]hese have been highly systematic and they all lead back to the [Taliban] Ministry of Defense or to Mullah Omar himself.”The Taliban especially targeted people of Shia religious or Hazara ethnic background.Upon taking Mazar-i-Sharif in 1998, about 4,000 civilians were executed by the Taliban and many more reported tortured.The documents also reveal the role of Arab and Pakistani support troops in these killings. Bin Laden’s so-called
055 Brigade
was responsible for mass-killings of Afghan civilians. The report by the United Nations quotes eyewitnesses in many villages describing “Arab fighters carrying long knives used for slitting throats and skinning people”.
According to Pakistani Afghanistan expert
Ahmed Rashid , “between 1994 and 1999, an estimated 80,000 to 100,000 Pakistanis trained and fought in Afghanistan” on the side of the Taliban. [49]
Peter Tomsen
stated that up until 9/11 Pakistani military and ISI officers along with thousands of regular Pakistani armed forces personnel had been involved in the fighting in Afghanistan.
In 2001 alone, according to several international sources, 28,000-30,000 Pakistani nationals, 14,000-15,000 Afghan Taliban and 2,000-3,000 Al Qaeda militants were fighting against anti-Taliban forces in Afghanistan as a roughly 45,000 strong military force.Pakistani President
Pervez Musharraf
– then as Chief of Army Staff – was responsible for sending thousands of Pakistanis to fight alongside the Taliban and Bin Laden against the forces of Ahmad Shah Massoud. Of the estimated 28,000 Pakistani nationals fighting in Afghanistan, 8,000 were militants recruited in
madrassas
filling regular Taliban ranks.A 1998 document by the
U.S. State Department
confirms that “20–40 percent of [regular] Taliban soldiers are Pakistani.The document further states that the parents of those Pakistani nationals “know nothing regarding their child’s military involvement with the Taliban until their bodies are brought back to Pakistan. According to the U.S. State Department report and reports by Human Rights Watch, the other Pakistani nationals fighting in Afghanistan were regular Pakistani soldiers especially from the
Frontier Corps
but also from the army providing direct combat support.
Under the Taliban, al-Qaeda was able to use Afghanistan as a place to train and indoctrinate fighters, import weapons, coordinate with other jihadists, and plot terrorist actions.While al-Qaeda maintained its own
establishments in Afghanistan , it also supported training camps belonging to other organizations. Between 10,000 and 20,000 people passed through these facilities before 9/11, most of whom were sent to fight for the Taliban against the United Front but a smaller number were inducted into al-Qaeda.
After the August 1998 U.S. Embassy bombings were linked to bin Laden, President
Bill Clinton
ordered
missile strikes on militant training camps
in Afghanistan. U.S. officials pressed the Taliban to surrender bin Laden, and the international community imposed sanctions on the Taliban in 1999, calling for bin Laden to be surrendered. The Taliban repeatedly rebuffed the demands, however.
Central Intelligence Agency
(CIA)
Special Activities Division
paramilitary teams were active in Afghanistan in the 1990s in clandestine operations to locate and kill or capture Osama Bin Laden. These teams planned several operations but did not receive the order to execute from President Clinton.These efforts did however build many of the relationships that would prove essential in the 2001 U.S. Invasion of Afghanistan.
Ahmad Shah Massoud meanwhile remained the only leader of the United Front in Afghanistan. In the areas under his control Massoud set up democratic institutions and signed the
Women’s Rights
Declaration.Human Rights Watch cites no human rights crimes for the forces under direct control of Massoud for the period from October 1996 until the assassination of Massoud in September 2001.As a consequence many civilians fled to the area of Ahmad Shah Massoud. In total, estimates range up to one million people fleeing the Taliban. National Geographic
concluded in its documentary “Inside the Taliban”:
The only thing standing in the way of future Taliban massacres is Ahmad Shah Massoud.
— National Geographic ,  “Inside the Taliban”
Ahmad Shah Massoud (right) with Pashtun anti-Taliban leader Abdul Qadir (brother of Abdul Haq) (left) as part of the pre 9/11 2001 grand Pashtun-Tajik-Hazara-Uzbek alliance against the Taliban
From 1999 onwards a renewed process was set into motion by the Tajik Ahmad Shah Massoud and the Pashtun Abdul Haq to unite all the ethnicities of Afghanistan. While Massoud united the Tajiks, Hazara and Uzbeks as well as some Pashtun commanders under his United Front command, the famed Pashtun commander
Abdul Haq
received increasing numbers of defecting Pashtun Taliban as “Taliban popularity trended downward Both agreed to work together with the exiled Afghan king
Zahir Shah . International officials who met with representatives of the new alliance, which Pulitzer Prize winner
Steve Coll
referred to as the “grand Pashtun-Tajik alliance”, said, “It’s crazy that you have this today … Pashtuns, Tajiks, Uzbeks, Hazara … They were all ready to buy in to the process … to work under the king’s banner for an ethnically balanced Afghanistan. Senior diplomat and Afghanistan expert
Peter Tomsen
wrote: “The ‘Lion of Kabul’ [Abdul Haq] and the ‘Lion of Panjshir’ [Ahmad Shah Massoud] … Haq, Massoud, and Karzai, Afghanistan’s three leading moderates, could transcend the Pashtun—non-Pashtun, north-south divide. The most senior Hazara and Uzbek leader were also part of the process. In late 2000, Massoud officially brought together this new alliance in a meeting in Northern Afghanistan among other things to discuss “a Loya Jirga, or a traditional council of elders, to settle political turmoil in Afghanistan”. That part of the Pashtun-Tajik-Hazara-Uzbek peace plan did eventually materialize. An account of the meeting by author and journalist
Sebastian Junger
says: “In 2000, when I was there … I happened to be there in a very interesting time. … Massoud brought together Afghan leaders from all ethnic groups. They flew from London, Paris, the USA, all parts of Afghanistan, Pakistan, India. He brought them all into the northern area where he was. He held a council of … prominent Afghans from all over the world, brought there to discuss the Afghan government after the Taliban. … we met all these men and interviewed them briefly. One was Hamid Karzai; I did not have any idea who he would end up being …
In early 2001 Massoud with ethnic leader from all of Afghanistan addressed the
European Parliament
in Brussels asking the
international community
to provide humanitarian help to the people of Afghanistan.( see video ) He stated that the Taliban and al-Qaeda had introduced “a very wrong perception of Islam” and that without the support of Pakistan and Bin Laden the Taliban would not be able to sustain their military campaign for up to a year. On this visit to Europe he also warned that his intelligence had gathered information about a large-scale attack on U.S. soil being imminent.
Change in U.S. policy towards Afghanistan
During the
Clinton administration
the U.S. had no clear policy towards Afghanistan until 1998-1999 and tended to favor Pakistani policies. In 1997, U.S. State Department’s
Robin Raphel
told anti-Taliban leader Ahmad Shah Massoud to surrender to the Taliban. Massoud answered that as long as he controlled an area the size of his hat he would continue to defend it from the Taliban. Robin Raphel eventually became a lobbyist and adviser at Cassidy & Associates.The firm had a $1.2 million contract with the Musharraf military regime of Pakistan. At Cassidy & Associates she lobbied and advised Congress and the State Department for Pakistan on issues such as Afghan policy, Pakistan’s relations with India, judicial independence and U.S. perceptions and congressional views of the Pakistan government. In late 2009 Raphel was (again) appointed to the
Af-Pak
region as deputy to
Richard Holbrooke , the late US. Special Representative to Afghanistan and Pakistan, by the Obama administration. Raphel will be the main person overlooking the $1.5 billion U.S. aid package “for non-military purpose” to Pakistan.
At one point in the war, in 1997, the Taliban were vulnerable and the road to the capital, Kabul, was wide open. Two top foreign policy officials in the Clinton administration flew to northern Afghanistan to convince – without success – the United Front not to take advantage of an opportunity to make crucial gains against the Taliban. Before the United Front could strike, Assistant Secretary of State Rick Indefurth and American U.N. Ambassador
Bill Richardson
flew to northern Afghanistan and tried to convince the leadership of the United Front that this was not the time for an offensive.Instead, they insisted this was the time for a cease-fire and an arms embargo. At the same time Pakistanis began a “Berlin-like airlift to resupply and re-equip the Taliban”, financed with Saudi money.
CIA officers on the ground lobbied for a change in U.S. policy towards
Afghanistan .
United States policy towards Afghanistan changed after the
1998 United States embassy bombings . Subsequently, Osama Bin Laden was
indicted
for his involvement in the embassy bombings and in 1999 both the United States and the United Nations enacted sanctions against the Taliban via
United Nations Security Council Resolution 1267
which demanded the Taliban surrender Osama Bin Laden for trial in the United States and close all Al Qaida bases in Afghanistan.In the meantime, the only collaboration between Massoud and another U.S. intelligence service, the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA), consisted of an effort to trace Osama bin Laden following the
1998 embassy bombings . The U.S. and the European Union provided no support to Massoud for the fight against the Taliban.
A change of policy regarding support to Massoud, lobbied for by CIA officers who had visited Massoud, was underway during 2001. According to Steve Coll’s book
Ghost Wars
(which won the 2005
Pulitzer Prize
for General Non-Fiction):
The CIA officers admired Massoud greatly. They saw him as a
Che Guevara
figure, a great actor on history’s stage. Massoud was a poet, a military genius, a religious man, and a leader of enormous courage who defied death and accepted its inevitability, they thought…. In his house there were thousands of books: Persian poetry, histories of the Afghan war in multiple languages, biographies of other military and guerrilla leaders. In their meetings Massoud wove sophisticated, measured references to Afghan history and global politics into his arguments. He was quiet, forceful, reserved, and full of dignity, but also light in spirit. The CIA team had gone into the Panshjir as unabashed admirers of Massoud. Now their convictions deepened.
— Steve Coll
in
Ghost Wars ,  2004
CIA lawyers, working with officers in the Near East Division and Counter-terrorist Center, began to draft a formal, legal presidential finding for Bush’s signature authorizing a new covert action program in Afghanistan, the first in a decade that sought to influence the course of the Afghan war in favor of Massoud.
Richard A. Clarke , chair of the Counter-Terrorism Security Group under the Clinton administration, and later an official in the Bush administration, allegedly presented a plan to incoming Bush administration official
Condoleezza Rice
in January 2001.
A change in policy was finalized in August 2001.In late August 2001, the Bush administration, to pressure the Taliban to hand over leading al-Qaeda operatives, agreed on a plan to start giving support to the anti-Taliban forces of Ahmad Shah Massoud who sought to create a democratic form of government in Afghanistan. Massoud until then had not received any meaningful support from Western countries. In a meeting by the Bush administration’s top national security officials it was agreed that the Taliban in negotiations would be presented with a final ultimatum to hand over Osama bin Laden and other leading al-Qaeda operatives. If the Taliban refused,
covert
military aid would be channeled by the U.S. to anti-Taliban groups. If both those options failed, “the deputies agreed that the United States would seek to overthrow the Taliban regime through more direct action.
9 September 2001
On his visit to Europe in March 2001 Ahmad Shah Massoud had warned that his intelligence had gathered information about a large-scale attack on U.S. soil being imminent.
Massoud’s intelligence staff is aware that the attack against the U.S. will be on a scale larger than the 1998 embassy bombings, which killed over two hundred people and injured thousands.
On 9 September 2001, Massoud, then aged 48, was the target of a
suicide attack
by two Arabs posing as journalists detonating a bomb hidden in their video camera during an interview in Khoja Bahauddin, in the
Takhar Province
of Afghanistan. Massoud died in a helicopter taking him to a hospital. The funeral, though in a rather rural area, was attended by hundreds of thousands of mourning Afghans. ( see video )
Massoud had survived countless assassination attempts over a period of 26 years. The assassination of Massoud is considered to have a strong connection to the 11 September 2001, attacks, which killed nearly 3,000 people, and which appeared to be the terrorist attack that Massoud had warned against in his speech to the European Parliament several months earlier. International experts and members of the United Front such as
Amrullah Saleh
feared that without Massoud the anti-Taliban resistance would be overrun by the Taliban.
11 September 2001
Main article:
September 11 attacks
Ground Zero in New York following the
attacks of September 11, 2001
On 11 September 2001, in the early morning, a series of coordinated attacks took place on United States soil. Four commercial passenger jet airliners were hijacked. The hijackers intentionally crashed two of the airliners into the Twin Towers of the World Trade Center in New York City, killing everyone on board and many others working in the buildings. Both buildings collapsed within two hours, destroying nearby buildings and damaging others. The hijackers crashed a third airliner into the
Pentagon
in Arlington, Virginia, just outside Washington, D.C. The fourth plane crashed into a field near
Shanksville
in rural Pennsylvania after some of its passengers and flight crew attempted to retake control of the plane, which the hijackers had redirected toward Washington, D.C to target the
White House , or the
Capitol . There were no survivors from any of the flights.
Nearly 3,000 people, including the 19 hijackers, died in the attacks. According to the New York State Health Department, 836 responders, including firefighters and police personnel, have died as of June 2009.
The United States identified members of the al-Qaeda movement based in Afghanistan as the perpetrators of the attacks.
Legal basis for war
The
United Nations Charter , to which all the Coalition countries are signatories, provides that all UN member states must settle their international disputes peacefully and no member nation can use military force except in self-defense. The
United States Constitution
states that international treaties, such as the United Nations Charter, that are ratified by the U.S. are part of the law of the land in the U.S., though subject to effective repeal by any subsequent act of Congress (i.e., the “leges posteriores priores contrarias abrogant” or “last in time” canon of statutory interpretation).The
United Nations Security Council
(UNSC) did not authorize the U.S.-led military campaign in Afghanistan (Operation Enduring Freedom).
Defenders of the legitimacy of the U.S.-led invasion argue that U.N. Security Council authorization was not required since the invasion was an act of collective self-defense provided for under Article 51 of the UN Charter, and therefore was not a
war of aggression . Critics maintain that the bombing and invasion of Afghanistan were not legitimate self-defense under Article 51 of the UN Charter because the 9/11 attacks were not “armed attacks” by another state, but rather were perpetrated by groups of individuals or non-state actors, and that these attackers had no proven connection to Afghanistan. Further, it is their opinion that even if a state had perpetrated the 9/11 attacks, no bombing campaign would constitute self-defense; the necessity for self-defense must be “instant, overwhelming, leaving no choice of means, and no moment for deliberation.
President George W. Bush was authorized by Congress on 14 September 2001, by legislation titled
Authorization for Use of Military Force Against Terrorists
which was passed and signed on 18 September 2001, by both President Bush and congress. This legislation authorized the use of United States Armed Forces against those responsible for the attacks on 11 September 2001. The authorization granted the President the authority to use all “necessary and appropriate force” against those whom he determined “planned, authorized, committed or aided” the 11 September attacks, or who harbored said persons or groups. The Bush administration, for its part, did not seek a declaration of war by the U.S. Senate, and labeled Taliban troops as supporters of terrorists rather than soldiers, denying them the protections of the
Geneva Convention
and
due process
of law. This position was successfully challenged in the
U.S. Supreme Court [83]
and questioned even by military lawyers responsible for prosecuting affected prisoners. On 20 December 2001, more than two months after the U.S.-led attack began, the UNSC authorized the creation of an International Security Assistance Force (ISAF) to take all measures necessary to fulfill its mandate of assisting the
Afghan Interim Authority
in maintaining security. Command of the ISAF passed to NATO on 11 August 2003.
2001: Initial attack
Further information:
2001 in Afghanistan
On 20 September 2001, U.S. president George W. Bush addressed the United States Congress and demanded that the Taliban deliver
Osama bin Laden
and destroy bases of al Qaeda. On 5 October 2001, the Taliban offered to try Bin Laden in an Afghan court, so long as the United States provided what it called “solid evidence” of his guilt, but the U.S. would not hand over its evidence to the Taliban. So on 7 October 2001, the U.S. government launched military operations in Afghanistan. Teams from the CIA’s Special Activities Division (SAD) were the first U.S. forces to enter Afghanistan and begin combat operations. They were soon joined by
U.S. Army Special Forces
from the 5th Special Forces Group and other units from
USSOCOM .
On 7 October 2001, airstrikes were reported in the capital, Kabul (where electricity supplies were severed), at the airport, at
Kandahar
(home of the Taliban’s Supreme Leader Mullah Omar), and in the city of
Jalalabad .
CNN
released exclusive footage of Kabul being bombed to all the American broadcasters at approximately 5:08 pm October 7, 2001.
US Army Special Forces
with Northern Alliance troops on horseback
At 17:00 UTC, President Bush confirmed the strikes on national television and
Prime Minister of the United Kingdom
Tony Blair
also addressed the UK. Bush stated that Taliban military sites and terrorist training grounds would be targeted. In addition, food, medicine, and supplies would be dropped to “the starving and suffering men, women and children of Afghanistan”.
US officials rejected a new offer from the Taliban to hand over Osama bin Laden to a third country for trial if the Americans halted the bombing of Afghanistan. A prerecorded videotape of Osama bin Laden had been released before the attacks in which he condemned any attacks against Afghanistan.
Al Jazeera , the
Arabic
satellite news channel, reported that these tapes were received shortly before the attack.
British and American special forces worked jointly to
take Herat
in November 2001. These forces worked with Afghan opposition groups on the ground, in particular the Northern Alliance. The United Kingdom, Canada and
Australia
also deployed forces and several other countries provided basing, access and overflight permission.
The U.S. was able to track al-Qaeda’s number three at the time
Mohammed Atef
who was one of the most wanted, when Atef was killed, along with his guard Abu Ali al-Yafi’i and six others, in a U.S. air-strike on his home near Kabul during the U.S. invasion of Afghanistan at some time between 14–16 November 2001. This was one of America’s first and largest victories during the early stages of the war.
Air campaigns
“
Having begun the war with the greatest imaginable reservoir of moral authority, the U.S. was on the verge of letting it slip away through high-level attacks using the most ghastly inventions its scientists could come up with.
”
— Stephen Tanner , “Afghanistan: A Military History from Alexander the Great to the War against the Taliban”
Bombers operating at high altitudes well out of range of
antiaircraft
guns dropped bombs at Afghan training camps and Taliban air defenses. U.S. aircraft, including
Apache
helicopter gunships
from the
101st Combat Aviation Brigade , operated with impunity throughout the campaign with no losses due to Taliban air defenses. Several
Tomahawk Cruise Missiles
were launched from
U.S. Navy
Cruisers and Destroyers.
The strikes initially focused on the area in and around the cities of Kabul, Jalalabad, and Kandahar. Within a few days, most Taliban training sites were severely damaged and the Taliban’s air defenses were destroyed. The campaign then focused on
command, control, and communication
targets which weakened the ability of the Taliban forces to communicate. However, the line facing the Afghan Northern Alliance held, and no tangible battlefield successes had yet occurred on that front. Two weeks into the campaign, the Northern Alliance demanded the air campaign focus more on the front lines.
Example of the U.S. propaganda pamphlets dropped over
Mazari Sharif .
The next stage of the campaign began with carrier based
F/A-18 Hornet
fighter-bombers
hitting Taliban vehicles in pinpoint strikes, while other U.S. planes began
cluster bombing
Taliban defenses. For the first time in years, Northern Alliance commanders finally began to see the substantive results that they had long hoped for on the front lines.
At the beginning of November, the Taliban front lines were attacked with
daisy cutter
bombs, and by
AC-130
gunships. The Taliban fighters had no previous experience with American firepower, and often even stood on top of bare ridgelines where
Special Forces
could easily spot them and call in
close air support . By 2 November, Taliban frontal positions were devastated, and a Northern Alliance march on Kabul seemed possible for the first time. However, according to author
Stephen Tanner , “After a month of the U.S. bombing campaign rumblings began to reach Washington from Europe, the Mideast, and Pakistan where
Musharraf
had requested the bombing to cease. Having begun the war with the greatest imaginable reservoir of moral authority, the U.S. was on the verge of letting it slip away through high-level attacks using the most ghastly inventions its scientists could come up with. Then US-President George W. Bush went to New York City on 10 November 2001, “where the wreckage of the
World Trade Center
still smoldered with underground fires”,to address the
United Nations
and told the assembled nations that not only the United States are in danger of further attacks of the 9/11 terrorists, but also every other countries in the world. Tanner writes: “His words had impact. Most of the world renewed its support for the American effort, including commitments of material help from Germany, France, Italy, Japan and other countries.
Fighters from al-Qaeda took over security in the Afghan cities, demonstrating the instability of the Taliban regime. Meanwhile, the Northern Alliance and their Central Intelligence Agency/Special Forces advisers planned the next stage of their offensive. Northern Alliance troops would seize
Mazari Sharif , thereby cutting off Taliban supply lines and enabling the flow of equipment from the countries to the north, followed by an attack on Kabul itself.
Areas most targeted
During the early months of the war the U.S. military had a limited presence on the ground. The plan was that Special Forces, and intelligence officers with a military background, would serve as liaisons with Afghan militias opposed to the Taliban, would advance after the cohesiveness of the Taliban forces was disrupted by American air power.
The
Tora Bora Mountains
lie roughly east of Afghanistan’s capital Kabul, which is itself close to the border with Pakistan. American intelligence analysts believed that the Taliban and al-Qaeda had dug in behind fortified networks of well-supplied caves and underground bunkers. The area was subjected to a heavy continuous bombardment by
B-52
bombers.
The U.S. forces and the Northern Alliance also began to diverge in their objectives. While the U.S. was continuing the search for Osama bin Laden, the Northern Alliance was pressuring for more support in their efforts to finish off the Taliban and control the country.
Battle of Mazar-i Sharif
Further information:
Fall of Mazar-i-Sharif
US Army Special Forces
on 10 November, upon arriving into the city with
Northern Alliance
fighters
The battle for Mazari Sharif was considered important, not only because it is the home of the
Shrine of Hazrat Ali
or “Blue Mosque”, a sacred Muslim site, but also because it is the location of a significant transportation hub with two main airports and a major supply route leading into Uzbekistan. It would also enable humanitarian aid to alleviate Afghanistan’s looming food crisis, which had threatened more than six million people with starvation. Many of those in most urgent need lived in rural areas to the south and west of Mazar-i-Sharif. On 9 November 2001, Northern Alliance forces, under the command of generals Abdul Rashid Dostum and
Ustad Atta Mohammed Noor , swept across the Pul-i-Imam Bukhri bridge, meeting some resistance, and seized the city’s main military base and airport.
U.S. Special Operations Forces (namely Special Forces Operational Detachment A-595, CIA paramilitary officers and
Air Force Combat Control Teams ) on horseback and using Close Air Support platforms, took part in the push into the city of Mazari Sharif in
Balkh Province
by the Northern Alliance. After a bloody 90-minute battle, Taliban forces, who had held the city since 1998, withdrew from the city, triggering jubilant celebrations among the townspeople whose ethnic and political affinities are with the Northern Alliance.
The Taliban had spent three years fighting the Northern Alliance for Mazar-i-Sharif, precisely because its capture would confirm them as masters of all Afghanistan. The fall of the city was a “body blow”to the Taliban and ultimately proved to be a “major shock”, since the
United States Central Command
(CENTCOM) had originally believed that the city would remain in Taliban hands well into the following year, and any potential battle would be “a very slow advance”.
Following rumors that
Mullah Dadullah
was headed to recapture the city with as many as 8,000 Taliban fighters, a thousand American
10th Mountain Soldiers
were airlifted into the city, which provided the first solid foothold from which Kabul and Kandahar could be reached. While prior military flights had to be launched from
Uzbekistan
or
Aircraft carriers
in the
Arabian Sea , now the Americans held their own airport in the country which allowed them to fly more frequent sorties for resupply missions and humanitarian aid. These missions allowed massive shipments of humanitarian aid to be immediately shipped to hundreds of thousands of Afghans facing starvation on the northern plain.
The American-backed forces now controlling the city began immediately broadcasting from
Radio Mazar-i-Sharif , the former Taliban
Voice of Sharia
channel on 1584 kHz, including an address from former President
Burhanuddin Rabbani .
Fall of Kabul
On the night of 12 November, Taliban forces fled from the city of Kabul, leaving under the cover of darkness. By the time Northern Alliance forces arrived in the afternoon of 13 November, only bomb craters, burned foliage, and the burnt-out shells of Taliban gun emplacements and positions were there to greet them. A group of about twenty hardline fighters hiding in the city’s park were the only remaining defenders. This Taliban group was killed in a 15-minute gun battle, being heavily outnumbered and having had little more than a telescope to shield them. After these forces were neutralized Kabul was in the hands of the U.S./NATO forces and the Northern Alliance.
The fall of Kabul marked the beginning of a collapse of Taliban positions across the map. Within 24 hours, all the Afghan provinces along the Iranian border, including the key city of
Herat , had fallen. Local Pashtun commanders and
warlords
had taken over throughout northeastern Afghanistan, including the key city of Jalalabad. Taliban holdouts in the north, mainly
Pakistani
volunteers, fell back to the northern city of Kunduz to make a stand. By 16 November, the Taliban’s last stronghold in northern Afghanistan was besieged by the Northern Alliance. Nearly 10,000 Taliban fighters, led by foreign fighters, refused to
surrender
and continued to put up resistance. By then, the Taliban had been forced back to their heartland in southeastern Afghanistan around Kandahar.
By 13 November, al-Qaeda and Taliban forces, with the possible inclusion of Osama bin Laden, had regrouped and were concentrating their forces in the Tora Bora cave complex, on the Pakistan border 50 kilometers (30 mi) southwest of Jalalabad, to prepare for a stand against the Northern Alliance and U.S./NATO forces. Nearly 2,000 al-Qaeda and Taliban fighters fortified themselves in positions within bunkers and caves, and by 16 November, U.S. bombers began bombing the mountain fortress. Around the same time, CIA and Special Forces operatives were already at work in the area, enlisting and paying local warlords to join the fight and planning an attack on the Tora Bora complex.
Fall of Kunduz
Main article:
Airlift of Evil
Just as the bombardment at Tora Bora was stepped up, the siege of
Kunduz
that began on November 16 was continuing. Finally, after nine days of heavy fighting and American aerial bombardment, Taliban fighters surrendered to Northern Alliance forces on November 25 – November 26. Shortly before the surrender, Pakistani aircraft arrived to evacuate intelligence and military personnel who had been in Afghanistan to aid the Taliban’s ongoing fight against the Northern Alliance. However, during this airlift, it is alleged that up to five thousand people were evacuated from the region, including Taliban and al-Qaeda troops.
Battle of Qala-i-Jangi
A Marine with the
15th Marine Expeditionary Unit
leads a leatherneck to a security position after seizing a Taliban forward-operating base 25 November 2001
On 25 November, the day that Taliban fighters holding out in Kunduz surrendered and were being herded into the
Qala-I-Janghi
fortress near Mazar-I-Sharif, a few Taliban attacked some Northern Alliance guards, taking their weapons and opening fire. This incident soon triggered
a widespread revolt by 300 prisoners , who soon seized the southern half of the complex, once a medieval
fortress , including an armory stocked with small arms and
crew-served weapons . One American CIA paramilitary operative who had been interrogating prisoners,
Johnny Micheal Spann , was killed, marking the first American combat death in the war.
The revolt was finally put down after seven days of heavy fighting between an
SBS
unit along with some U.S. Army Special Forces and Northern Alliance, AC-130 gunships and other aircraft took part providing strafing fire on several occasions, as well as a bombing airstrikes.A total of 86 of the Taliban prisoners survived, and around 50 Northern Alliance soldiers were killed. The squashing of the revolt marked the end of the combat in northern Afghanistan, where local Northern Alliance warlords were now firmly in control.
Consolidation: the taking of Kandahar
Army Special Forces with
Hamid Karzai
in
Kandahar province
By the end of November, Kandahar, the Taliban’s birthplace, was its last remaining stronghold, and was coming under increasing pressure. Nearly 3,000 tribal fighters, led by Hamid Karzai, a loyalist of the former Afghan king, and
Gul Agha Sherzai , the governor of Kandahar before the Taliban seized power, pressured Taliban forces from the east and cut off the northern Taliban supply lines to Kandahar. The threat of the Northern Alliance loomed in the north and northeast.
Meanwhile, nearly 1,000
Marines , ferried in by
CH-53E Super Stallion
helicopters and C-130s, set up a
Forward Operating Base
known as
Camp Rhino
in the desert south of Kandahar on 25 November. This was the coalition’s first strategic foothold in Afghanistan, and was the stepping stone to establishing other operating bases. The first significant combat involving U.S. ground forces occurred a day after Rhino was captured when 15 armored vehicles approached the base and were attacked by helicopter gunships, destroying many of them. Meanwhile, the airstrikes continued to pound Taliban positions inside the city, where Mullah Omar was holed up. Omar, the Taliban leader, remained defiant although his movement only controlled 4 out of the 30 Afghan provinces by the end of November and called on his forces to fight to the death.
On 6 December, the U.S. government rejected any
amnesty
for Omar or any Taliban leaders. Shortly thereafter on 7 December, Omar slipped out of the city of Kandahar with a group of his hardcore loyalists and moved northwest into the mountains of
Uruzgan Province , reneging on the Taliban’s promise to surrender their fighters and their weapons. He was last reported seen driving off with a group of his fighters on a
convoy
of motorcycles.
Other members of the Taliban leadership fled into Pakistan through the remote passes of
Paktia
and
Paktika Provinces . Nevertheless, Kandahar, the last Taliban-controlled city, had fallen, and the majority of the Taliban fighters had disbanded. The border town of
Spin Boldak
was surrendered on the same day, marking the end of Taliban control in Afghanistan. The Afghan tribal forces under Gul Agha seized the city of Kandahar while the Marines took control of the airport outside and established a U.S. base.
Battle of Tora Bora
Main article:
Battle of Tora Bora
Tommy Franks
meets with US Army Special Forces
Air strikes on Tora Bora
Al-Qaeda fighters were still holding out in the mountains of Tora Bora, however, while an anti-Taliban tribal militia steadily pushed bin Laden back across the difficult terrain, backed by
Delta Force ,
UK Special Forces
and withering air strikes by the U.S. Facing defeat, the al-Qaeda forces agreed to a truce to give them time to surrender their weapons. In retrospect, however, many believe that the truce was a ruse to allow important al-Qaeda figures, including Osama bin Laden, to escape. On 12 December, the fighting flared again, probably initiated by a rear guard buying time for the main force’s escape through the White Mountains into the tribal areas of Pakistan. Again, tribal forces backed by British and U.S. special operations troops and
air support
pressed ahead against fortified al-Qaeda positions in caves and bunkers scattered throughout the mountainous region.
By 17 December, the last cave complex had been taken and their defenders overrun. A search of the area by U.S. and U.K. forces continued into January, but no sign of bin Laden or the al-Qaeda leadership emerged. It is almost unanimously believed that they had already slipped away into the tribal areas of Pakistan to the south and east. It is estimated that around 200 of the al-Qaeda fighters were killed during the battle, along with an unknown number of anti-Taliban tribal fighters. No American or British deaths were reported.
Diplomatic and humanitarian efforts
After the Taliban fled Kabul in November 2001 and left their stronghold, the southern city of Kandahar, in December 2001, it was generally understood that by then major al-Qaeda and Taliban leaders had fled across the border into Pakistan.
To fill the political void, in December 2001 the United Nations hosted the
Bonn Conference
in Germany. The meetings of various Afghan leaders here were organized by the United Nations Security Council. The Taliban were not included. Participants included representatives of four Afghan opposition groups. Observers included representatives of neighbouring and other involved major countries, including the United States.
The result was the
Bonn Agreement
which created the
Afghan Interim Authority
that would serve as the “repository of Afghan sovereignty” and outlined the so-called
Petersberg Process , a political process towards a new constitution and choosing a new Afghan government.
United Nations Security Council Resolution 1378
of November 14, 2001, included “Condemning the Taliban for allowing Afghanistan to be used as a base for the export of terrorism by the al-Qaeda network and other terrorist groups and for providing safe haven to Osama bin Laden, al-Qaeda and others associated with them, and in this context supporting the efforts of the Afghan people to replace the Taliban regime”.
To help provide security to support this Afghan Interim Authority, the United Nations authorized an international force – the International Security Assistance Force (ISAF) – with a mandate to help the Afghans maintain security in Kabul and surrounding areas.
Before the U.S.-led invasion, there were fears that the invasion and resultant disruption of services would cause widespread starvation and refugees. The United Nations
World Food Programme
temporarily suspended activities within Afghanistan at the beginning of the bombing attacks but resumed them after the fall of the Taliban.
Logo of ISAF.
International Security Assistance Force
Main article:
International Security Assistance Force
Operating under United States General
David Howell Petraeus , [126]
the International Security Assistance Force (ISAF) includes soldiers from 46 countries with U.S. troops making up about half its force. ISAF had initially been established as a stabilization force by the UN Security Council on 20 December 2001, to secure Kabul. Its mandate did not extend beyond this area for the first few years. On 11 August 2003, NATO assumed political command and coordination of ISAF. [ On 31 July 2006, ISAF assumed command of the south of the country, and by 5 October 2006, of the east. [129]
International Security Assistance Force
troop deployment[hide]
Current Deployment (1,000 or more)
Current Deployment (150 to 1,000)
Command Structure
ISAF total – 132,381
United States – 90,000
United Kingdom – 9,500
Germany – 4,812
France – 3,935
Italy – 3,880
Canada – 2,922
Poland – 2,560
Romania – 1,938
Turkey – 1,786
Spain – 1,552
Australia – 1,550
Georgia – 937
Denmark – 750
Bulgaria – 602
Czech Republic – 519
Belgium – 507
Sweden – 500
Norway – 406
Hungary – 383
Republic of Korea – 350
Croatia – 320
Slovakia – 308
Albania – 260
Lithuania – 237
New Zealand – 191
Estonia – 163
Macedonia – 163
Greece – 162
Finland – 156
Azerbaijan – 94
Regional Command Capital
Regional Command North
Regional Command West
Regional Command South
Regional Command East
2002: Operation Anaconda
U.S. Army soldiers from Bravo Company, 1st Battalion,
187th Infantry Regiment
of the
101st Airborne Division
search for al-Qaeda and Taliban fighters.
Canadian soldiers from 3PPCLI move into the hills to search for al-Qaeda and Taliban fighters after an air assault onto an objective north of Qualat, Afghanistan.
An Anti-Taliban Forces (ATF) fighter wraps a bandolier of ammunition for his 7.62 mm
PK machine gun
around his body as ATF personnel help secure a compound in
Helmand Province
in Afghanistan, January 2002.
Main article:
2002 in Afghanistan
Further information:
Operation Anaconda  and  Tarnak Farm incident
Following Tora Bora, Afghan forces and their U.S. allies consolidated their position in the country. Following a
Loya jirga
or grand council of major Afghan factions, tribal leaders, and former exiles, an interim Afghan government was established in Kabul under Hamid Karzai. U.S. forces established their main base at
Bagram airbase
just north of Kabul. Kandahar airport also became an important U.S. base area. Several outposts were established in eastern provinces to hunt for Taliban and al-Qaeda fugitives. The number of U.S-led coalition troops operating in the country would eventually grow to over 10,000.
Meanwhile, the Taliban and al-Qaeda had not given up. Al-Qaeda forces began regrouping in the
Shahi-Kot
mountains of Paktia province throughout January and February 2002. A Taliban fugitive in Paktia province, Mullah
Saifur Rehman , also began reconstituting some of his militia forces in support of the anti-U.S. fighters. They totalled over 1,000 by the beginning of March 2002. The intention of the insurgents was to use the region as a base area for launching
guerrilla attacks
and possibly a major offensive in the style of the
Mujahideen
who battled Soviet forces during the 1980s.
U.S. allied to Afghan militia intelligence sources soon picked up on this buildup in Paktia province and prepared a massive push to counter it. On 2 March 2002, U.S. and Afghan forces launched an offensive on al-Qaeda and Taliban forces entrenched in the mountains of Shahi-Kot southeast of
Gardez . The Mujahideen forces, who used
small arms ,
rocket-propelled grenades , and mortars, were entrenched into caves and bunkers in the hillsides at an altitude that was largely above 10,000 feet (3,000 m).
They used “hit and run” tactics, opening fire on the U.S. and Afghan forces and then retreating back into their caves and bunkers to weather the return fire and persistent U.S. bombing raids. To compound the situation for the coalition troops, U.S. commanders initially underestimated the Taliban and al-Qaeda forces as a last isolated pocket numbering fewer than 200. It turned out that the guerrillas numbered between 1,000–5,000 according to some estimates and that they were receiving
reinforcements .
By 6 March, eight Americans and seven Afghan soldiers had been killed and reportedly 400 opposing forces had also been killed in the fighting. The coalition casualties stemmed from a
friendly fire
incident that killed one soldier, the downing of two helicopters by rocket-propelled grenades and small arms fire that killed seven soldiers, and the pinning down of U.S. forces being inserted into what was coined as “Objective Ginger” that resulted in dozens of wounded.However, several hundred guerrillas escaped the dragnet heading to the
Waziristan
tribal areas across the border in Pakistan.
During Operation Anaconda and other missions during 2002 and 2003, special forces from several
western nations
were also involved in operations. These included the
Australian Special Air Service Regiment , the Canadian
Joint Task Force 2 , the German
KSK , the
New Zealand Special Air Service
and Norwegian
Marinejegerkommandoen .
Post-Anaconda operations
Following the battle at Shahi-Kot, it is believed that the al-Qaeda fighters established sanctuaries among tribal protectors in Pakistan, from which they regained their strength and later began launching cross-border raids on U.S. forces by the summer months of 2002. Guerrilla units, numbering between 5 and 25 men, still regularly crossed the border from their sanctuaries in Pakistan to fire rockets at U.S. bases and ambush American convoys and patrols, as well as Afghan National Army troops, Afghan militia forces working with the U.S-led coalition, and non-governmental organizations. The area around the U.S. base at
Shkin
in Paktika province saw some of the heaviest activity.
Meanwhile, Taliban forces remained in hiding in the rural regions of the four southern provinces that formed their heartland, Kandahar,
Zabul , Helmand Province, and Uruzgan. In the wake of Operation Anaconda
The Pentagon
requested that British
Royal Marines
who are highly trained in
mountain warfare , be deployed. They conducted a number of missions over several weeks with varying results. The Taliban, who during the summer of 2002 numbered in the hundreds, avoided combat with U.S. forces and their Afghan allies and melted away into the caves and tunnels of remote Afghan mountain ranges or across the border into Pakistan during operations.
2003–2005: Renewed Taliban insurgency
Map detailing the spread of the Neotaliban-Insurgency in Afghanistan 2002–2006
A 19th U.S. Special Forces Group soldier mans an
M60 machine gun
on a
HMMWV
in Afghanistan, in March 2004. An
AT4
anti-tank rocket can be seen in the foreground.
Spanish
Cougar
and a
VBL
of the
2nd Foreign Infantry Regiment
(2e REI) in Afghanistan (2005).
US Marines
searching for Taliban fighters in the spring of 2005.
A number of 1.25lb
M112 Demolition Charges , consisting of a
C-4
compound, sit atop degraded weaponry scheduled for destruction.
Main article:
Taliban insurgency
Further information:
War in North-West Pakistan ,  2003 in Afghanistan ,  2004 in Afghanistan , and  2005 in Afghanistan
After managing to evade U.S. forces throughout mid-2002, the remnants of the Taliban gradually began to regain their confidence and started to begin preparations to launch the insurgency that Mullah Muhammad Omar had promised during the Taliban’s last days in power. During September, Taliban forces began a recruitment drive in Pashtun areas in both Afghanistan and Pakistan to launch a renewed “ jihad ” or holy war against the Afghan government and the U.S-led coalition. Pamphlets distributed in secret during the night also began to appear in many villages in the former Taliban heartland in southeastern Afghanistan that called for jihad
Small mobile training camps were established along the border with Pakistan by al-Qaeda and Taliban fugitives to train recruits in guerrilla warfare and terrorist tactics, according to Afghan sources and a United Nations report Most of the recruits were drawn from the
madrassas
or religious schools of the tribal areas of Pakistan, from which the Taliban had originally arisen. Major bases, a few with as many as 200 men, were created in the mountainous tribal areas of Pakistan by the summer of 2003. The will of the Pakistani paramilitaries stationed at border crossings to prevent such infiltration was called into question, and Pakistani military operations proved of little use.
The Taliban gradually reorganized and reconstituted their forces over the winter, preparing for a summer offensive. They established a new mode of operation: gathered into groups of around 50 to launch attacks on isolated outposts and convoys of Afghan soldiers, police, or militia and then breaking up into groups of 5–10 men to evade subsequent offensives. U.S. forces in the strategy were attacked indirectly, through rocket attacks on bases and
improvised explosive devices .
To coordinate the strategy, Omar named a 10-man leadership council for the resistance, with himself at the head Five operational zones were created, assigned to various Taliban commanders such as the key Taliban leader Mullah Dadullah, in charge of Zabul province operations Al-Qaeda forces in the east had a bolder strategy of concentrating on the Americans and catching them when they could with elaborate ambushes.
The first sign that Taliban forces were regrouping came on 27 January 2003, during Operation Mongoose, when a band of fighters allied with the Taliban and
Hezb-i-Islami
were discovered and assaulted by U.S. forces at the Adi Ghar cave complex 15 miles (24 km) north of Spin Boldak. ]
18 rebels were reported killed and no U.S. casualties reported. The site was suspected to be a base to funnel supplies and fighters from Pakistan. The first isolated attacks by relatively large Taliban bands on Afghan targets also appeared around that time.
As the summer continued, the attacks gradually increased in frequency in the “Taliban heartland.” Dozens of Afghan government soldiers, non-governmental organization and
humanitarian workers , and several U.S. soldiers died in the raids, ambushes, and rocket attacks. Besides using guerrilla attacks, Taliban fighters began building up their forces in the district of
Dai Chopan , a district in
Zabul Province
that also straddles Kandahar and Uruzgan and is at the very center of the Taliban heartland.
Dai Chopan district is a remote and sparsely populated corner of southeastern Afghanistan composed of towering, rocky mountains interspersed with narrow gorges. Taliban fighters decided it would be the perfect area to make a stand against the Afghan government and the coalition forces. Over the course of the summer, perhaps the largest concentration of Taliban militants gathered in the area since the fall of the regime, with up to 1,000 guerrillas regrouping. Over 220 people, including several dozen Afghan police, were killed in August 2003 as Taliban fighters gained strength.
As a result, coalition forces began preparing offensives to root out the rebel forces. In late August 2005, Afghan government forces backed by U.S. troops and heavy American aerial bombardment advanced upon Taliban positions within the mountain fortress. After a one-week battle, Taliban forces were routed with up to 124 fighters (according to Afghan government estimates) killed.
2006: NATO in southern Afghanistan
A US Army soldier from
10th Mountain Division , patrols Aranas, Afghanistan
Main article:
Coalition combat operations in Afghanistan in 2006
Further information:
2006 in Afghanistan
From January 2006, a NATO
International Security Assistance Force
(ISAF) started to replace the U.S. troops of Operation Enduring Freedom in southern Afghanistan. The
British 16th Air Assault Brigade
(later reinforced by
Royal Marines ) formed the core of the force in Southern Afghanistan, along with troops and helicopters from Australia, Canada and the Netherlands. The initial force consisted of roughly 3,300 British, 2,300 Canadian, 1,963 from the Netherlands, 2300 from Australia,90 from Denmark, and 150 from
Estonia Air support was provided by U.S., British, Dutch, Norwegian and French combat aircraft and helicopters.
In January 2006, NATO’s focus in southern Afghanistan was to form
Provincial Reconstruction Teams
with the British leading in Helmand Province while the Netherlands and Canada would lead similar deployments in
Orūzgān Province
and Kandahar Province respectively. Local Taliban figures voiced opposition to the incoming force and pledged to resist it.
Southern Afghanistan faced in 2006 the deadliest spate of violence in the country since the ousting of the Taliban regime by U.S.-led forces in 2001, as the newly deployed NATO troops battled resurgent militants. NATO operations have been led by British, Canadian and
Dutch
commanders.
Operation Mountain Thrust
was launched on 17 May 2006, with the purpose of rooting out Taliban forces. In July, Canadian Forces, supported by U.S., British, Dutch and
Danish
forces, launched
Operation Medusa
in an attempt to clear the areas of Taliban fighters.
On 18 September 2006 Italian special forces, of Task Force 45 and the airborne troopers of the ‘Trieste’ infantry regiment of the Rapid Reaction Corps composed of Italian and Spanish forces, took part in ‘Wyconda Pincer’ operation in the districts of Bala Buluk and Pusht-i-Rod, in Farah province. Italian forces killed at least 70 Taliban. The situation in RC-W has deteriorated. Hotspots include Badghis in the very north and Farah in the southwest.
Further NATO operations included the
Battle of Panjwaii ,
Operation Mountain Fury
and
Operation Falcon Summit . The fighting for NATO forces was intense throughout the second half of 2006. NATO has been successful in achieving tactical victories over the Taliban and denied areas to them, but the Taliban were not completely defeated, and NATO had to continue operations into 2007.
2006 Dutch/Australian offensive
Main article:
2006 Dutch/Australian Offensive
A combined force of
Dutch
and
Australians
launched an offensive between late April to mid July 2006 in an attempt to take control of the Chora and Baluchi areas. The aim was to push the Taliban out of these areas to the north of Tarin Kowt, the provincial capital of Oruzgan province, in order to secure already present forces who were constructing a new base. The successful operation is estimated to have killed over 300 Taliban forces, for the loss of one coalition soldier.
2007: Coalition offensive
Main article:
Coalition combat operations in Afghanistan in 2007
Further information:
2007 in Afghanistan
US and British troops during a patrol in Helmand Province
Dutch army
PzH 2000
firing on Taliban in Chora
In January and February 2007, British Royal Marines mounted
Operation Volcano
to clear insurgents from firing points in the village of Barikju, north of
Kajaki . Other major operations during this period were
Operation Achilles
(March – May) and
Operation Lastay Kulang . The UK ministry of defence announced its intention to bring British troop levels in the country up to 7,700 (committed until 2009). Further operations, such as Operation Silver and
Operation Silicon , were conducted to keep up the pressure on the Taliban in the hopes of blunting their expected spring offensive.
On 4 March 2007, at least 12 civilians were killed and 33 were injured by U.S. Marines in Shinwar district in Nangrahar province of Afghanistanas the Americans reacted to a bomb ambush. The event has become known as the
Shinwar Massacre . The 120 member Marine unit responsible for the attack was asked to leave the country because the incident damaged the unit’s relations with the local Afghan population.
Later in March 2007, the
Bush Administration
sent more than 3,500 additional U.S. troops to the country.
On 12 May 2007, ISAF forces killed
Mullah Dadullah , a Taliban commander in charge of leading operations in the south of the country; eleven other Taliban fighters were killed in the same firefight.
During the summer, NATO forces achieved tactical victories over the Taliban at the
Battle of Chora
in
Orūzgān Province , where Dutch and
Australian
ISAF forces are deployed.
On 16 August 2007, eight civilians including a pregnant woman and a baby died when
Polish soldiers shelled the village of Nangar Khel , Paktika Province. Seven soldiers have been charged with
war crimes .
On 28 October 2007, about 80 Taliban fighters were killed in a 24 hour battle with forces from the U.S.-led coalition in Afghanistan’s
Helmand
province. During the last days of October, Canadian forces surrounded around 300 militants near Arghandab and killed at least 50 of them. This was said to have stopped a potential Taliban offensive on Kandahar.
The strength of Taliban forces was estimated by Western officials and analysts at about 10,000 fighters fielded at any given time, according to an 30 October report in
The New York Times . Of that number, “only 2,000 to 3,000 are highly motivated, full-time insurgents”, the
Times
reported. The rest are part-timers, made up of alienated, young Afghan men angry at bombing raids or fighting to get money. In 2007, more foreign fighters were showing up in Afghanistan than ever before, according to Afghan and United States officials. Approximately 100 to 300 full-time combatants are foreigners, usually from Pakistan, Uzbekistan, Chechnya, various Arab countries and perhaps even Turkey and western China. They tend to be more fanatical and violent, and they often bring skills such as the ability to post more sophisticated videos on the Internet or bombmaking expertise.
On 2 November 2007, Afghan security forces killed a top-ranking militant,
Mawlawi Abdul Manan , after he was caught trying to cross into Afghanistan from neighboring Pakistan. The Taliban confirmed his death. On 10 November 2007, the Taliban ambushed a patrol in eastern Afghanistan. This attack brought the U.S. death toll for 2007 to 100, making it the deadliest year for Americans in Afghanistan.
The
Battle of Musa Qala
took place in December 2007. Afghan units were the principal fighting force, supported by British forces.Taliban forces were forced to pull out of
Musa Qala .
2008: Reassessment and renewed commitment
Main article:
Coalition combat operations in Afghanistan in 2008
Further information:
2008 in Afghanistan
U.S. Army
Chinook
helicopter in the Afghanistan mountains
Admiral
Mike Mullen , Staff
Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff , said that while the situation in Afghanistan is “precarious and urgent,” the 10,000 additional troops needed there would be unavailable “in any significant manner” unless withdrawals from
Iraq
are made. However, Mullen stated that “my priorities . . . given to me by the commander in chief are: Focus on Iraq first. It’s been that way for some time. Focus on Afghanistan second.
In the first five months of 2008, the number of U.S. troops in Afghanistan increased by over 80% with a surge of 21,643 more troops, bringing the total number of U.S. troops in Afghanistan from 26,607 in January to 48,250 in June. [157]
In September 2008, President Bush announced the withdrawal of over 8,000 troops from Iraq in the coming months and a further increase of up to 4,500 U.S. troops in Afghanistan.
In June 2008, British prime minister
Gordon Brown
announced the number of British troops serving in Afghanistan would increase to 8,030 – a rise of 230 personnel. The same month, the UK lost its 100th serviceman killed in the war since 2001.
On 13 June, Taliban fighters demonstrated their ongoing strength, liberating all prisoners in Kandahar jail. The well-planned operation freed 1200 prisoners, 400 of whom were Taliban
prisoners of war , causing a major embarrassment for NATO in one of its operational centres in the country.
French soldiers from the
27ème bataillon de Chasseurs alpins
and French Task Force Tiger patrolling the many valleys of Kapisa province.
On 13 July 2008, a coordinated Taliban
attack was launched on a remote NATO base at Wanat
in
Kunar province . On 19 August, French troops suffered their worst losses in Afghanistan
in an ambush . [162]
Later in the month, an
airstrike
which targeted a Taliban commander in Herat province killed 90 civilians.
Late August saw one of the largest operations by NATO forces in Helmand province,
Operation Eagle’s Summit , with the aim bringing electricity to the region.
On 3 September, the war spilled over on to Pakistani territory for the first time when heavily armed
commandos , believed to be U.S. Army Special Forces, landed by helicopter and attacked three houses in a village close to a known Taliban and Al-Qaeda stronghold. The attack killed between seven and twenty people. According to local residents, most of the dead were civilians. Pakistan responded furiously, condemning the attack. The foreign ministry in Islamabad called the incursion “a gross violation of Pakistan’s territory”.
Burning
hashish
seized in Operation Albatross, a joint operation of Afghan officials, NATO and the
DEA .
On 6 September, in an apparent reaction to the recent cross-border attack, the federal government announced disconnection of supply lines to the allied forces stationed in Afghanistan through Pakistan for an indefinite period.
On 11 September, militants killed two U.S. troops in the eastern part of the country. This brought the total number of U.S. losses to 113, making 2008 the deadliest year for American troops in Afghanistan since the start of the war. The year was also the deadliest for several European countries in Afghanistan, particularly for the UK, who suffered a similar level of casualties to the USA with the loss of 108 personnel.
Taliban attacks on supply lines through Pakistan
In November and December 2008, there were multiple incidents of major theft, robbery, and arson attacks against NATO supply convoys in Pakistan. Transport companies south of Kabul have also been reported to pay protection money to the Taliban. In an attack on 11 November 2008, Taliban fighters in Peshawar hijacked a convoy carrying NATO supplies from Karachi to Afghanistan. The militants took two military Humvees and paraded them in front of the media as trophies.
The area east of the Khyber pass in Pakistan has seen very frequent attacks. Cargo trucks and Humvees have been set ablaze by Taliban militants. A half-dozen raids on depots with NATO supplies near Peshawar destroyed 300 cargo trucks and Humvees in December 2008. The Taliban destroyed an iron bridge on the highway between Peshawar and the Khyber pass in February 2009.
Coalition issues with Pakistan
Main articles:
Pakistan’s role in the War on Terror
and
Pakistan–United States skirmishes
Barack Obama with
Hamid Karzai
and Pakistani President
Asif Ali Zardari , May 6, 2009
An unnamed senior Pentagon official told the BBC that at some point between 12 July and 12 September 2008, President George W. Bush issued a classified order to authorize U.S. raids against militants in Pakistan. Pakistan however said it would not allow foreign forces onto its territory and that it would vigorously protect its sovereignty. In September, the Pakistan military stated that it had issued orders to “open fire” on American soldiers who crossed the Pakistan border in pursuit of militant forces.
Anti-Taliban fighters observing U.S. bombing of the cave sanctuaries of the al-Qaeda terrorist organization in the Tora Bora mountains of Afghanistan on December 16, 2001.
Reuters NewMedia Inc./Corbis
http://www.britannica.com/EBchecked/topic/1686268/Afghanistan-War
On 25 September 2008, Pakistani troops shot towards ISAF helicopters, which belonged to American troops. This caused confusion and anger in the Pentagon, which asked for a full explanation into the incident, and they denied that American helicopters were in Pakistani airspace. Pakistani President Asif Ali Zardari was quick to deny that shots were fired but instead insisted that the Pakistani troops shot flares to warn the Americans that they were in Pakistani airspace.
A further split occurred when American troops apparently landed on Pakistani soil to carry out an operation against militants in the
Khyber Pakhtunkhwa
Province but ‘Pakistan reacted angrily to the action, saying 20 innocent villagers had been killed by US troops’. However, despite tensions between Pakistan and the U.S., the United States has continued to increase the
use of remotely piloted drone aircraft in Pakistan’s border regions , in particular the Federally Administered Tribal Regions (FATA) and Balochistan; as of early 2009, drone attacks were up 183% since 2006.
By the end of 2008, the Taliban apparently had severed remaining ties with al-Qaeda. According to senior U.S. military intelligence officials, there are perhaps fewer than 100 members of al-Qaeda remaining in Afghanistan.
In a meeting with General McChrystal, Pakistani military officials urged international forces to keep their fight on the Afghan side of the border to prevent militants from fleeing into Pakistan. Pakistan noted that it has 140,000 Pakistani soldiers on its side of the border with Afghanistan to monitor and address militant activities, while the Coalition only has 100,000 soldiers to police the Afghanistan side of the border.
2009: Southern Afghanistan
A U.S. Army soldier with 1st Battalion, 32nd Infantry Regiment, 10th Mountain Division, fires his weapon during a battle with insurgent forces in Barge Matal, during Operation Mountain Fire on 12 July 2009.
U.S. Army Soldiers cross the Arghandab River to assist Afghanistan police on a humanitarian mission
French soldiers conduct a live-fire exercise, with their Nexter Systems Caesar self-propelled wheeled armored vehicles, outside of
Bagram Airfield , Afghanistan, 14 August 2009.
U.S. Soldiers pass through a village while on a dismounted patrol.
Canadian Forces
personnel carry the coffin of a fallen comrade onto an aircraft at Kandahar Air Field, July 17, 2009
Further information:
2009 in Afghanistan ,  Military operations of the War in Afghanistan (2001–present)#2009 Operations , and  Khyber Border Coordination Center
Northern Distribution Network
Main article:
NATO logistics in the Afghan War#Northern Distribution Network
In response to the increased risk of sending supplies through Pakistan, work began on the establishment of a Northern Distribution Network (NDN) through Russia and several Central Asian republics. Initial permission for the U.S. military to move troop supplies through the region was given on 20 January 2009, after a visit to the region by General Petraeus. The first shipment along the NDN route left on 20 February from
Riga , Latvia, then traveled 3,212 miles (5,169 km) to the Uzbek town of
Termez
on the Afghanistan border. In addition to Riga, other European ports include
Poti , Georgia and
Vladivostok , Russia. U.S. commanders have stated their hope that 100 containers a day will be shipped along the NDN.By comparison, currently 140 containers a day are shipped through the
Khyber Pass . By 2011, the NDN handled about 40% of Afghanistan-bound traffic, compared to 30% through Pakistan.
On 11 May 2009,
Uzbekistan
president
Islam Karimov
announced that the airport in
Navoi , Uzbekistan was being used to transport non-lethal cargo into Afghanistan. Due to the still unsettled relationship between Uzbekistan and the United States following the 2005
Andijon massacre
and subsequent expulsion of U.S. forces from
Karshi-Khanabad airbase , U.S. forces were not involved in the shipment of supplies. Instead, South Korea’s
Korean Air , which is currently involved in overhauling Navoi’s airport, officially handles logistics at the site.
Originally only non-lethal resources were allowed on the NDN. In July 2009, however, shortly before a visit by President Obama to Moscow, Russian authorities announced that U.S. troops and weapons could use the country’s airspace to reach Afghanistan.
Additionally, human rights advocates are concerned that the U.S. is again working with the government of Uzbekistan, which is often accused of violating human rights. Nevertheless, U.S. officials have promised increased cooperation with Uzbekistan, including further assistance to turn the Navoi airport into a major regional distribution center for both military and civilian ventures.
Azerbaijan , which has sent its
peacekeeping forces
to be a part of ISAF, also provided its airspace and airports for transportation of vital supplies for the U.S. Army in Afghanistan. Apart from usage of Azerbaijani airspace by U.S. Air Force, over one-third of all of the nonlethal equipment including fuel, clothing, and food used by the U.S. military in Afghanistan travels through Baku.
Increase in U.S. troops
In January, about 3,000 U.S. soldiers from the 3rd Brigade Combat Team of the 10th Mountain Division moved into the provinces of
Logar
and
Wardak . Afghan Federal Guards also fought along with U.S. Troops. The troops were the first wave of an expected surge of reinforcements originally ordered by George W. Bush and increased by Barack Obama.
In mid-February, it was announced that 17,000 additional troops would be deployed to the country in two
brigades
and additional support troops; the
2nd Marine Expeditionary Brigade
of about 3,500 from the 7,000 Marines, and the
5th Brigade, 2nd Infantry Division , a
Stryker Brigade
with about 4,000 of the 7,000 U.S. Army soldiers.The U.S. commander in Afghanistan,
General David McKiernan , had called for as many as 30,000 additional troops, effectively doubling the number of troops currently in the country.
On 23 September,
NBC News
reported that a classified assessment of the war in Afghanistan by General McChrystal included his conclusion that a successful
counterinsurgency
strategy would require 500,000 troops and five years of fighting.
In November, the U.S. ambassador in Kabul sent two classified cables to Washington expressing deep concerns about sending more U.S. troops to Afghanistan until President Hamid Karzai’s government demonstrates that it is willing to tackle the corruption and mismanagement that has fueled the Taliban’s rise. Ambassador
Karl W. Eikenberry , a retired three-star general who in 2006–2007 commanded U.S. troops in Afghanistan, also expressed frustration with the relative paucity of funds set aside for spending on development and reconstruction in Afghanistan. In subsequent cables, Ambassador Eikenberry repeatedly cautioned that deploying sizable American reinforcements would result in “astronomical costs” – tens of billions of dollars – and would only deepen the dependence of the Afghan government on the United States.
On 26 November 2009, Afghan President Hamid Karzai made a public plea to the United States to engage in direct negotiations with the Taliban leadership. In an interview with
CNN ‘s
Christiane Amanpour , Karzai said there is an “urgent need” for negotiations with the Taliban, and made it clear that the Obama administration had opposed such talks. There was no formal American response.
On 1 December 2009, President Barack Obama announced at The United States Military Academy in West Point that the U.S. will be sending 30,000 more troops to Afghanistan. Antiwar organizations in the United States responded quickly, and cities throughout the U.S. saw protests on 2 December in response.Many protesters compared the decision to deploy more troops in Afghanistan to the expansion of the Vietnam War under the
Johnson administration .
Kunduz Province campaign
In April, German forces stepped up their efforts to retake some rebellious areas of Kunduz province, considered to be the most dangerous part of Northern Afghanistan by ISAF commander McChrystal. The fighting centres upon the areas to the west and south of the city of Kunduz with a main focus on an area between the town of Chahar Dara in the West and the Kunduz river in the east. Up to now this campaign consisted of several large offensives linked by countless skirmishes and gunfights. Operations of German, Afghan, U.S., and Belgian troops were still ongoing as of December 2009. Insurgent militias suffered more than 650 casualties in this period. At least 86 coalition troops were wounded or killed. On 4 September, a
devastating NATO air raid
was conducted 7 kilometres to the southwest of Kunduz where Taliban fighters had hijacked civilian supply trucks, killing Up to 179 people including over 100 Afghan civilians.
Operation Khanjar and Operation Panther’s Claw
Main articles:
Operation Strike of the Sword
and
Operation Panther’s Claw
We’re doing this very differently. We’re going to be with the people. We’re not going to drive to work. We’re going to walk to work.
— Brig. Gen. Lawrence D. Nicholson, commander of the
2nd Marine Expeditionary Brigade , July 2, 2009.
On 25 June 2009, American officials announced the launch of Operation Khanjar (“strike of the sword”). About 4000 U.S. Marines from the
2nd Marine Expeditionary Brigade [200]
and 650 Afghan soldiersare currently involved in Operation Khanjar, which will be staged on the
Helmand River . Khanjar follows a British-led operation named
Operation Panther’s Claw
in the same region. Officials call it the Marines’ largest operation since the 2004
invasion of Fallujah, Iraq .Operation Panther’s Claw was aimed to secure various canal and river crossings to establish a permanent
International Security Assistance Force
(ISAF) presence in the area.
Initially, Afghan and American soldiers have been moving into towns and villages along the Helmand Riverto secure the civilian population from the Taliban. The main objective of the operation is to push troops into insurgent strongholds along the river. A secondary aim was to bring security to the Helmand Valley in time for presidential elections, set to take place on 20 August. The first aggressive phase will last 36 hours, where the secondary aim will be achieved first.
Taliban’s gains
According to a 22 December 2009, briefing by Major General
Michael T. Flynn , the top U.S. intelligence officer in Afghanistan, “The Taliban retains [the] required partnerships to sustain support, fuel legitimacy and bolster capacity. The 23-page briefing states that “Security incidents [are] projected to be higher in 2010.” Those incidents are already up by 300 percent since 2007 and by 60 percent since 2008, according to the briefing.NATO intelligence at the time also indicated that the Taliban had as many as 25,000 dedicated soldiers, almost as many as before
9/11
and more than in 2005.
On 10 August 2009,
Stanley McChrystal , the newly appointed U.S. commander in Afghanistan, said that the Taliban had gained the upper hand. In a continuation of the Taliban’s usual strategy of summer offensives, the militants have aggressively spread their influence into the north and west Afghanistan, and stepped up their attack in an attempt to disrupt 20 August presidential polls. Calling the Taliban a “very aggressive enemy”, he added that the U.S. strategy in the months to come is to stop their momentum and focusing on protecting and safeguarding the Afghan civilians, while also calling it “hard work”.
The Taliban’s claim of disrupting 20 August elections is largely disputed, claiming over 135 incidents of violence; media was asked to not report on any violent incidents, however, causing many outlets to hail the elections as a success, even though some estimates give the voter turn out as much less than the expected 70 percent. In southern Afghanistan where the Taliban holds the most sway, there was a low voter turnout and sporadic violence directed at voters and security personnel. The chief observer of the European Union election mission, General
Philippe Morillon , said the election was “generally fair” but “not free”.
Western groups and election observers had difficulty accessing the southern regions of Afghanistan, where at least 9 Afghan civilians and 14 security forces were killed in attacks intended to intimidate voters. The Taliban released a video days after the elections, filming just up the road between Kabul and Kandahar, a major route in Afghanistan on election day, stopping buses, cars, and asking to see their fingers. The video went on to showing ten men who had voted, being talked to by a Taliban militant, they went on to say they may pardon the voters because of the Holy month of
Ramadan
The Taliban also attacked towns with rockets and other means of indirect fire. Amid claims of widespread fraud, both of the top contenders, Hamid Karzai and Abdullah Abdullah, claimed victory in the election. Reports also suggest that the turnout was lower than the last election, and there are fears that a results dispute can turn violent, even though both candidates vowed not to incite violence in case of a loss.
After Karzai’s alleged win of 54 per cent, which would prevent a run off with his rival,
Abdullah Abdullah , over 400,000 votes had to be discounted for Karzai, and many more with hundreds of thousands of votes and polling ballots being accused of fraud. Making the real turnout of the elections much lower than the official numbers, many nations criticizing the elections as “free but not fair”.
In December, an
attack on Forward Operating Base Chapman , used by the Central Intelligence Agency to gather information and to coordinate drone attacks against Taliban leaders, killed at least six CIA officers and was a major setback for the agency’s operations in the region.
2010: American/British offensive and Afghan peace initiative
U.S. Marine Corps Sergeant exits an Italian Army CH-47 Chinook helicopter, 30 November 2010
U.S. Marines with Bravo Company, 1st Battalion, 6th Marine Regiment return fire on Taliban forces in Marjeh in February 2010
U.S. Marines with Explosive Ordnance Disposal (EOD) destroy an Improvised Explosive Device (IED) cache in Southern Shorsurak, Helmand province in June 2010.
U.K. service members of the
Royal Air Force
Regiment stop on a road while conducting a combat mission near Kandahar Airfield, Afghanistan, 2 January 2010
Australian and Afghan soldiers patrol the poppy fields in the Baluchi Valley Region, April 2010
Further information:
2010 in Afghanistan
In their public statements U.S. officials had previously praised Pakistan’s military effort against the militants during its offensive in South Waziristan in November 2009. Afghan President Hamid Karzai also started peace talks with Haqqani network groups in March 2010. Pakistan’s President Asif Ali Zardari said that Pakistan has lost over 35 billion U.S. dollars during the previous eight years as a result of the fight against militancy.According to the Afghan government, approximately 900 Taliban were killed in operations conducted during 2010.Due to increased use of IEDs by insurgents there was a significant increase in the number of injured coalition soldiers, mainly Americans, losing one limb or more or suffering major injury to their genital and pelvic areas.
Peace Initiatives
In October 2008 Defense Secretary Gates asserted that a political settlement with the Taliban was the endgame for the Afghan conflict. “There has to be ultimately – and I’ll underscore ultimately – reconciliation as part of a political outcome to this,” Gates stated.
By 2010 peace efforts began. In early January, Taliban commanders held secret exploratory talks with a United Nations special envoy to discuss peace terms. Regional commanders on the Taliban’s leadership council, the
Quetta Shura , sought a meeting with the UN special representative in Afghanistan,
Kai Eide , and it took place in
Dubai
on January 8. It was the first such meeting between the UN and senior members of the Taliban.
U.S. soldiers waiting to be evacuated by helicopter after their armoured vehicle was struck by an improvised explosive device, Afghanistan, 2009.
David Goldman/AP
http://www.britannica.com/EBchecked/topic/1686268/Afghanistan-War
On 26 January 2010, at
a major conference in London
which brought together some 70 countries and organizations,Afghan President Hamid Karzai told world leaders that he intends to reach out to the top echelons of the Taliban within a few weeks with a peace initiative. Karzai set the framework for dialogue with Taliban leaders when he called on the group’s leadership to take part in a “loya
jirga ” – or large assembly of elders – to initiate peace talks.Karzai also asked for creation of a new peacemaking organization, to be called the National Council for Peace, Reconciliation and Reintegration.Karzai’s top adviser on the reconciliation process with the insurgents said that the country must learn to forgive the Taliban.
In March 2010, the Karzai government held preliminary talks with Hezb-i-Islami, who presented a plan which included the withdrawal of all foreign troops by the end of 2010. The Taliban declined to participate, saying “The Islamic Emirate has a clear position. We have said this many, many times. There will be no talks when there are foreign troops on Afghanistan’s soil killing innocent Afghans on daily basis.
In July 2010,
The Guardian
newspaper reported that the campaign to “win hearts and minds” of Afghan civilians by U.S. troops has been proving more difficult than expected. One U.S. Army report read: “It seems to always be this way when we go there [to meet civilians]. No one wants anything to do with us.” And a report on meeting up with school representatives mentioned students throwing rocks at soldiers and not welcoming their arrival, as has been reported on several occasions elsewhere.
In September 2010 General David Petraeus commented on the progress of peace talks to date, stating, “The prospect for reconciliation with senior Taliban leaders certainly looms out there…and there have been approaches at (a) very senior level that hold some promise.
Marja offensive
In early February Coalition and Afghan forces began highly visible plans for an offensive, codenamed
Operation Moshtarak , on the Taliban stronghold near the village of Marja. It began on 13 February and, according to U.S. and Afghan officials, was the first operation where Afghan forces led the coalition.The offensive involves 15,000 US, British and Afghan troops. It is the biggest joint operation since the 2001 invasion that ousted the Taliban. The troops are fighting over an area of less than 100 square miles (260 km 2 ), with a population of 80,000.
Troop surge
Deployment of additional U.S. troops continued in early 2010, with 9,000 of the planned 30,000 in place before the end of March and another 18,000 expected by June, with the
101st Airborne Division
as the main effort. The Pentagon anticipated that U.S. troops in Afghanistan will outnumber those in Iraq for the first time since 2003.
The CIA, from a request by General McChrystal, the commander of NATO forces in Afghanistan, planned to increase teams of operatives, including their elite paramilitary officers from Special Activities Division (SAD), with U.S. military special operations forces. This combination worked well in Iraq and is largely credited with the success of that surge. The CIA also increased its campaign using
Hellfire missile
strikes on Al-Qaeda in Pakistan. The number of strikes in 2010, 115, more than doubled the 50 drone attacks that occurred in 2009.
Canadian Prime Minister Stephen Harper addressing Canadian soldiers at their base in Kandahar, Afg., March 2006.
AP
http://www.britannica.com/EBchecked/topic/1686268/Afghanistan-War
The surge in troops also meant a sixfold increase in Special Forces operations. There were 700 air strikes in September 2010, alone versus 257 in all of 2009. From July 2010 to October 2010, 300 Taliban commanders and 800 foot soldiers were killed. Hundreds more insurgent leaders were killed or captured as 2010 came to a close. General
David Petraeus
characterized the damage Special Forces were inflicting on the insurgents this way: “We’ve got our teeth in the enemy’s jugular now, and we’re not going to let go.
The CIA created what would be called Counter-terrorism Pursuit Teams (CTPT) at the beginning of the war. This force grew to over 3,000 soldiers by 2010 and is considered one of the “best Afghan fighting forces”. According to Woodward book
Obama’s War ,
Firebase Lilley
as one of the nerve centers for the covert war conducted by the CIA’s SAD. These units have not only been highly effective in operations against the Taliban and al-Qaeda forces in Afghanistan, but have expanded their operations into Pakistan.They were also important factors in both the “counterterrorism plus” and the full “counter-insurgency” options discussed by the Obama administration in the December 2010 review.
Afghan and American security forces inspecting improvised explosive devices, Kandahar province, Afghanistan, 2010.
Spc. Ian Schell/U.S. Army
http://www.britannica.com/EBchecked/topic/1686268/Afghanistan-War
Taliban offensive
The Taliban announced an offensive for the spring and launched several attacks against ISAF and Afghan government forces. Attacks include a car bomb against a NATO convoy in Kabul which killed 18 people including six NATO soldiers and separate attacks against two of the largest ISAF bases in Afghanistan, Bagram and
Kandahar Air Bases .Overall, 2010 saw the most insurgent attacks of any year since the war began, peaking in September at more than 1,500. Insurgent operations increased “dramatically” in two-thirds of Afghan provinces.
Wikileaks disclosure
Main article:
Afghan War documents leak
On 25 July 2010, the release of 91,731 classified documents from the
Wikileaks
organization was made public. The documents cover U.S. military incident and
intelligence
reports from January 2004 to December 2009. Some of these documents included sanitised, and “covered up”, accounts of civilian casualties caused by
Coalition Forces . The reports also included many references to other incidents involving civilian casualties like the
Kunduz airstrike
and
Nangar Khel incident .
The leaked documents also contain reports of Pakistan collusion with the Taliban. According to
Der Spiegel , “the documents clearly show that the Pakistani intelligence agency
Inter-Services Intelligence
(usually known as the ISI) is the most important accomplice the Taliban has outside of Afghanistan.
The New York Times
was especially alarmed by the level of collusion with the Taliban, having concluded that Pakistan “allows representatives of its spy service to meet directly with the Taliban in secret strategy sessions to organize networks of militant groups that fight against American soldiers in Afghanistan, and even hatch plots to assassinate Afghan leaders.”
The Guardian , however, did not think there was “a convincing smoking gun” for complicity between
Pakistan intelligence services
and the Taliban.
An Afghan policeman consoling a relative of the provincial governor who was killed along with three others in a roadside bombing carried out by the Taliban in Paghman, west of Kabul, September 2008.
Rafiq Maqbool/AP
http://www.britannica.com/EBchecked/topic/1686268/Afghanistan-War
Kandahar offensive
A U.S. and Afghan military offensive, called
Operation Hamkari , focusing on the Afghan province of Kandahar was launched soon after the Muslim holiday of Ramadan, which ended September 10. The Kandahar offensive was originally planned to be launched during July, but was delayed for further preparations. The offensive did not begin as one specific operation, but rather a series of operations in Kandahar City and its surrounding districts throughout the late summer and fall in 2010. Places where operations were conducted included Malajat, Zhari, Arghandab and the Horn of Panjwayi. Operations conducted in 2010 is credited with putting severe pressure on insurgent operations and increasing security in some key areas such as in Panjwayi. Unlike operations of previous years, Operation Hamkari featured the extensive use of Afghan National Security Forces, including the Afghan Border Police (ABP), led by Spin Boldak ABP Commander Gen. Abdul Razziq.
Operation Bawaar
was the Canadian aspect of the 2010 Kandahar offensive. It involved the hold and build in the district of Zangabad as well as the Ground Line of Communication (GLOC) project to Mushan – all in an area known as the Horn of Panjwai.
Pakistan and U.S. tensions
Main articles:
Pakistan–United States skirmishes
and
Pakistan–United States relations
Tensions between Pakistan and the U.S. were heightened in late September after several Pakistan Frontier Corps soldiers were killed and wounded. The troops were attacked by a U.S. piloted aircraft that was pursuing Taliban forces near the Afghan-Pakistan border but for unknown reasons opened fire on two different Pakistan border posts. In retaliation for the strike, Pakistan closed the Torkham ground border crossing to NATO supply convoys for an unspecified period. This incident followed the recent release of a video allegedly showing uniformed Pakistan soldiers executing unarmed civilians.After the Torkham border closing, the Pakistani Taliban attacked the NATO convoys carrying supplies, killing several of the drivers and destroying around 100 tankers.
Raids on Taliban leaders
Beginning in May 2010 NATO special forces began to concentrate on surgical operations to capture or kill specific Taliban leaders. As of March 2011, according to the U.S. military, the operations had resulted in the capture or killing of more than 900 low and mid-level Taliban commanders. The effectiveness of the operations in defeating the Taliban was not yet known.
2011: U.S. and NATO drawdown
U.S. Soldiers return fire during a firefight with Taliban forces in Kunar Province, 31 March 2011
U.S. Army National Guard soldiers patrol the villages in the Bagram Security Zone, 23 March 2011
Soldiers from 34th Infantry Division, Task Force Red Bulls, discuss plans to maneuver into Pacha Khak village, Kabul Province, while conducting a dismounted patrol, 7 April 2011
An Australian service light armored vehicle drives through Tangi Valley, 29 March 2011
Further information:
2011 in Afghanistan  and  Withdrawal of U.S. troops from Afghanistan
Battle of Kandahar
See also:
Battle of Kandahar
The Battle of Kandahar was part of an offensive named after the
Battle of Bad’r
that took place on 13 March 624, between
Medina
and
Mecca . The Battle followed an announcement, April 30, 2011, that Taliban would launch their Spring offensive throughout the country.
On 7 May 2011, the Taliban launched a major offensive on Government buildings in Kandahar. Around 12:30 pm local time, the Taliban unleashed a major assault on government buildings throughout the city. The Taliban said their goal was to take control of Kandahar city. At least eight locations were attacked: the governor’s compound, the mayor’s office, the
NDS
headquarters, three police stations and two high schools.
The battle continued onto a second day, 8 May 2011. The
BBC’s
Bilal Sarwary called it
the worst attack in Kandahar province since
the fall of the Taliban government in 2001 , and a embarrassment for the Western-backed Afghan government.
Death of Osama bin Laden
Main article:
Death of Osama bin Laden
On 2 May 2011, U.S. officials announced that al-Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden was killed in a Special Operation (code-named
Operation Neptune Spear ) to kill or capture Osama Bin Laden, conducted by the CIA and United States Navy SEALs, in Pakistan. Crowds gathered outside the White House in Washington, DC, chanting “USA, USA” after the news emerged, and President Barack Obama addressed the nation and the world from the East Room of the White House to tell the world of the operation.
Withdrawal
On 22 June, President Obama addressed the nation from the White House and announced that 10,000 troops would be withdrawn by the end of 2011 and an additional 23,000 troops will leave the country by the summer of 2012. After the withdrawal of 10,000 U.S. troops, only 80,000 left are participating in the war. In July 2011 Canada withdrew all of its combat troops, and has transitioned to a training role.
Following suit, other NATO countries announced reductions in troop numbers. The United Kingdom has stated that it will gradually start withdrawing some of its troops, however it has not yet specified numbers or dates.France has announced that it would withdraw roughly 1,000 soldiers by the end of 2012, with 3,000 soldiers remaining in Afghanistan at that point. Several hundreds would gradually come back at the end of 2011 and in the beginning of 2012, when the Afghan National Army takes control of the Surobi district. The remaining troops will continue to operate in Kapisa, and their complete withdrawal is expected by the end of 2014 or earlier if the security in this district is considered good enough.
Belgium announced they would withdraw half of their force starting January 2012. Norway announced it had started a withdrawal of its near 500 troops, and would be completely out of Afghanistan by 2014. Equally, the Spanish Prime Minister has announced the withdrawal of troops beginning in 2012 with a target of up to 40 percent of the current force withdrawing by the end of the first half of 2013, and complete withdrawal by 2014.
U.S. helicopter shot down
See also:
2011 Afghanistan helicopter shootdown
On 6 August 2011, Taliban fighters shot down a U.S. Chinook helicopter which caused the death of 30 U.S. Soldiers, seven Afghan troops, and a civilian interpreter. Among the U.S. deaths were 17 Navy Seals who had been part of the Naval Special Warfare Development Group (DEVGRU). It was the same unit who killed Osama Bin Laden, although none of the deceased partook in the operation.
ANA/Australian incidents
On 30 October 2011, an ANA soldier opened fire on Australian forces at a patrol base in northern Kandahar Province, shooting 11 people. This attack killed three Australian soldiers and an Afghan Army interpreter and severely wounded seven Australians. The ANA soldier responsible for the attack was killed during the gunfight. It was the bloodiest incident for Australian forces since 2001, and the worst for the ADF since the Vietnam war. The incident raised questions of Australia’s commitment to the war in Afghanistan and if success with working alongside the ANA was even possible. The attack weakened trust between Australian and ANA forces and led to weapons being confiscated from some ANA elements for several days. The Australian Prime Minister Julia Gillard later reaffirmed her government’s support for Australian involvement. A similar attack occurred just 10 days later on 9 November 2011, when an ANA soldier opened fire wounding three Australians and two Afghan soldiers before escaping.
2011 U.S.-NATO attack in Pakistan
Main article:
2011 NATO attack in Pakistan
On the Peak of Tensions after “Operation Neptune Spear”, an accidental, direct attack on Pakistan’s armed forces by ISAF forces occurred on 26 November 2011, killing 24 Pakistani soldiers. Pakistan blocked NATO supply and ordered Americans to leave
Shamsi Airfield . NATO Secretary General Anders
Fogh Rasmussen
said the attack was ‘tragic’ and ‘unintended’. “This (regret) is not good enough. We strongly condemn the attacks and reserve the right to take action,” said DG ISPR
Major General
Athar Abbas , while speaking to the national and international media from abroad on Monday. “This could have serious consequences in the level and extent of our cooperation.
Coordinated attacks against Shiites civilians
A series of terrorist attacks in the Afghan cities Kabul, Kandahar and Mazar-i-Sharif killed 60 Shiite worshippers including many children and wounded an estimated 200 on the
Day of Ashura
on December 6, 2011. The highly coordinated attacks which nearly went off simultaneously were considered to be among the war’s deadliest attacks against civilians.
Lashkar-i-Jhangvi , a Pakistan-based
Deobandi
extremist group allied to al-Qaeda, claimed responsibility. Lashkar-i-Jhangvi is known for its systematic attacks against Shiites in Pakistan. According to the Washington Post and New York Times, the Pakistani Inter Services Intelligence (ISI) had ties to Lashkar-i-Jhangvi in the past. The Afghan Taliban, which were allied to Lashkar-i-Jhangvi in their fight against Afghanistan’s anti-Taliban
United Front
in from 1996 to 2001, denied any role in the attacks.
2012: Strategic Agreement
Further information:
2012 in Afghanistan
Reformation of the United Front (Northern Alliance)
Ahmad Zia Massoud
(left), then as Vice President of Afghanistan, shaking hands with a U.S. Provincial Reconstruction Team at the ceremony for a new road. He is now the chairman of the
National Front of Afghanistan
“
If the Taliban are imposed on Afghanistan, there will be resistance.
”
In late 2011 the
National Front of Afghanistan
(NFA) was created by
Ahmad Zia Massoud ,
Abdul Rashid Dostum
and
Haji Mohammad Mohaqiq
in what many analysts have described as a reformation of the military wing of the
United Front
(Northern Alliance) to oppose a return of the Taliban to power. Meanwhile, much of the political wing has reunited under the
National Coalition of Afghanistan
led by
Abdullah Abdullah
becoming the main democratic opposition movement in the Afghan parliament. [273] [274]
Former head of intelligence,
Amrullah Saleh , has created a new movement, Basej-i Milli (Afghanistan Green Trend), with support among the youth mobilizing about 10,000 people in an anti-Taliban demonstration in the capital Kabul in May 2011.
In January 2012, the National Front of Afghanistan raised concerns about the possibility of a secretive and untransparent deal between the US, Pakistan and the Taliban during a widely publicized meeting in Berlin. U.S. Congressman
Louie Gohmert
wrote, “These leaders who fought with embedded Special Forces to initially defeat the Taliban represent over 60-percent of the Afghan people, yet are being entirely disregarded by the Obama and Karzai Administrations in negotiations.After the meeting with US congressmen in Berlin the National Front signed a joint declaration stating among other things:
“We firmly believe that any negotiation with the Taliban can only be acceptable, and therefore effective, if all parties to the conflict are involved in the process. The present form of discussions with the Taliban is flawed, as it excludes anti-Taliban Afghans. It must be recalled that the Taliban extremists and their Al-Qaeda supporters were defeated by Afghans resisting extremism with minimal human embedded support from the United States and International community. The present negotiations with the Taliban fail to take into account the risks, sacrifices and legitimate interests of the Afghans who ended the brutal oppression of all Afghans.
—National Front Berlin Statement,  January 2012
High-profile U.S. military incidents
U.S. Army soldiers prepare to conduct security checks near the Pakistan border, February 2012
Beginning in January 2012
incidents involving US troops occurred which were described by
The Sydney Morning Herald
as “a series of damaging incidents and disclosures involving American troops in Afghanistan […].” These incidents created fractures in the partnership between Afghanistan and the NATO troops operating in the country, raised the question whether discipline within U.S. troops is breaking down,undermined “the image of foreign forces in a country where there is already deep resentment owing to civilian deaths and a perception among many Afghans that US troops lack respect for Afghan culture and people and strained the
relations between Afghanistan and the United States .Besides an
incident involving US troops who posed with body parts of dead insurgents
and an video apparently showing a US helicopter crew singing “Bye-bye Miss American Pie” before blasting a group of Afghan men with a Hellfire missilethese “high-profile U.S. military incidents in Afghanistan also included the
2012 Afghanistan Quran burning protests
and the
Panjwai shooting spree .
Enduring Strategic Partnership Agreement
Italian soldiers on patrol in Afghanistan, August 2012
Main article:
U.S.-Afghanistan Strategic Partnership Agreement
On 2 May 2012, Afghan President
Hamid Karzai
and US President
Barack Obama
signed a strategic partnership agreement between the two countries, after the US president had arrived in
Kabul
as part of unannounced trip to Afghanistan on the first anniversary of
Osama bin Laden’s death . The
U.S.-Afghanistan Strategic Partnership Agreement , officially entiteled the “Enduring Strategic Partnership Agreement between the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan and the United States of America”,ovides the long-term framework for the relationship between Afghanistan and the United States of America after the drawdown of U.S. forces in the Afghanistan war. The Strategic Partnership Agreement went into effect on July 4, 2012 according to an announcement by US Secretary of State
Hillary Clinton
on July 8, 2012 at the Tokyo Conference on Afghanistan.On 7 July 2012, as part of the Enduring Strategic Partnership Agreement, the United States designated Afghanistan a
major non-NATO ally
after US Secretary of State
Hillary Clinton
arrived to Kabul to meet with President Karzai.
NATO Chicago Summit: Troops withdrawal and longterm presence
Further information:
2012 Chicago Summit ,  2011 NATO attack in Pakistan , and  Withdrawal of U.S. troops from Afghanistan
On May 21, 2012 the leaders of the NATO-member countries endorsed an exit strategy during the 2012 NATO Summit in Chicago. The NATO-led ISAF Forces will hand over command of all combat missions to Afghan forces by the middle of 2013, while shifting at the same time from combat to a support role of advising, training and assisting the Afghan security forces and then withdraw most of the 130,000 foreign troops by the end of December 2014. A new and different NATO mission will then advise, train and assist the Afghan security forces including the Afghan Special Operations Forces.
Cost of war
The cost of the war reportedly was a major factor as U.S. officials considered drawing down troops in 2011. A March 2011 Congressional Research Service report notes the following about Operation Enduring Freedom (OEF) Afghanistan: 1) following the Afghanistan surge announcement in 2009, Defense Department spending on Afghanistan has increased 50%, going from $4.4 billion to $6.7 billion a month. During that time, troop strength has gone from 44,000 to 84,000, and it is expected to be at 102,000 for fiscal year 2011; 2) The total operational cost for Afghanistan from the beginning of the conflict in 2001 through 2006 only slightly exceeds the amount spent in 2010 alone – $93.8 billion. The projected total cost relating to Afghanistan from inception to the fiscal year 2011 is expected to be $468 billion. The estimate for the cost of deploying one U.S. soldier in Afghanistan is over US$1 million dollars a year. In a 2011 news story, the
CSM
reported, “The United States and other Western nations that have borne the brunt of the cost of the Afghan war have been conspicuously absent from the bidding process on Afghanistan’s
mineral deposits , leaving it to mostly to regional powers.
Risk of a failed state
An Afghan market teems with vendors and shoppers on 4 February 2009
Village girls wait as the Afghan National Police unload a shipment of
humanitarian aid
at their village, 4 February 2009
U.S. Soldiers unload humanitarian aid for distribution to the town of Rajan Kala, 5 December 2009
In a 2008 interview, the then-head U.S. Central Command General
David H. Petraeus , insisted that the Taliban were gaining strength. He cited the recent uptick in attacks in Afghanistan and in neighboring Pakistan. Petraeus also insisted that the challenges faced in Afghanistan are more complicated than the ones that were faced in Iraq during his tour and to turn around the recent events this would require removing militant sanctuaries and strongholds, which are widespread inside Afghanistan.
Observers also have argued that the mission in Afghanistan is hampered by a lack of agreement on objectives, a lack of resources, lack of coordination, too much focus on the central government at the expense of local and provincial governments, and too much focus on Afghanistan instead of the region.
In November 2009,
Malalai Joya , a former member of the
Afghan Parliament
and the author of “Raising My Voice,” expressed opposition to an expansion of the U.S. military presence in Afghanistan and concern about the future of her country. “Eight years ago, the U.S. and NATO – under the banner of women’s rights, human rights, and democracy – occupied my country and pushed us from the frying pan into the fire. Eight years is enough to know better about the corrupt, mafia system of President Hamid Karzai. My people are crushed between two powerful enemies. From the sky, occupation forces bomb and kill civilians … and on the ground, the Taliban and warlords continue their crimes. It is better that they leave my country; my people are that fed up. Occupation will never bring liberation, and it is impossible to bring democracy by war.
Afghan policemen destroying opium poppies during an eradication sweep in Orūzgān province, 2007.
AP
http://www.britannica.com/EBchecked/topic/1686268/Afghanistan-War
In November 2009, Afghanistan slipped three places in Transparency International’s annual index of corruption perceptions, becoming the world’s second most-corrupt country ahead of just Somalia.
Pakistan is playing a central role in Afghanistan. A 2010 report published by the
London School of Economics
says that Pakistan’s ISI has an “official policy” of support to the Taliban. The ISI provides funding and training to the Taliban.”Pakistan appears to be playing a double-game of astonishing magnitude,” the report states.
Amrullah Saleh , former director of Afghanistan’s intelligence service, criticised:
We talk about all these proxies [Taliban, Haqqanis] but not the master of proxies, which is the Pakistan army. The question is what does Pakistan’s army want to achieve …? They want to gain influence in the region.
About the presence of foreign troops in Afghanistan he stated:
[T]hey fight for the U.S. national interest but … without them we will face massacre and disaster and God knows what type of a future Afghanistan will have. ( see video )
Capacity of Afghan security forces
Afghan Commandos
practice infiltration techniques, 1 April 2010 at Camp Morehead in the outer regions of Kabul.
Marines and Afghan National Army soldiers take cover in Marja on 13 February 2010
Further information:
Afghan National Army#Current status
The plan to transfer security responsibility to Afghan forces is the centerpiece of U.S. President Barack Obama’s revised Afghanistan strategy. U.S. policy called for boosting the
Afghan National Army
to 134,000 soldiers by October 2010. By May 2010 the Afghan Army had accomplished this interim goal and was on track to reach its ultimate number of 171,000 by 2011. This increase in Afghan troops was intended to allow the U.S. to begin withdrawing American forces in July 2011.The transfer of security responsibilities could not happen unless the Afghan government and the coalition could recruit, train and retain soldiers.
At the time, the Afghan National Army had severely limited fighting capacity. Even the best Afghan units lacked training, discipline and adequate reinforcements. In one new unit in
Baghlan Province , soldiers had been found cowering in ditches rather than fighting. Some were suspected of collaborating with the Taliban against the Americans. “They don’t have the basics, so they lay down,” said Capt. Michael Bell, who was one of a team of U.S. and Hungarian mentors tasked with training Afghan soldiers. “I ran around for an hour trying to get them to shoot, getting fired on. I couldn’t get them to shoot their weapons.In addition, 9 out of 10 soldiers in the Afghan National Army could not read.
The Afghan Army was plagued by inefficiency and endemic corruption. U.S. training efforts were drastically slowed by the corruption, widespread illiteracy, vanishing supplies, and lack of discipline.U.S. trainers reported missing vehicles, weapons and other military equipment, and outright theft of fuel provided by the U.S. Death threats were leveled against U.S. officers who tried to stop Afghan soldiers from stealing. Afghan soldiers often found improvised explosive devices and snipped the command wires instead of marking them and waiting for U.S. forces to come to detonate them. The Americans said this just allows the insurgents to return and reconnect them. U.S. trainers frequently removed the cell phones of Afghan soldiers hours before a mission for fear that the operation would be compromised. American trainers often spent large amounts of time verifying that Afghan rosters were accurate – that they are not padded with “ghosts” being “paid” by Afghan commanders who quietly collected the bogus wages.
Desertion
has been a significant problem in the Afghan Army. One in every four combat soldiers quit the Afghan Army during the 12-month period ending in September 2009, according to data from the U.S. Defense Department and the Inspector General for Reconstruction in Afghanistan.
A U.S. soldier calling for an air strike on the hills surrounding Barge Matal in eastern Nūristān province, Afg., July 2009.
Sgt. Matthew C. Moeller, U.S. Army/U.S. Department of Defense
http://www.britannica.com/EBchecked/topic/1686268/Afghanistan-War
The Afghan National Police provides support to the Afghan army. Police officers in Afghanistan are largely illiterate. Approximately 17 percent of them test positive for illegal drugs. They are widely accused of demanding bribes. [321]
Attempts to build a credible Afghan police force were faltering badly, according to NATO officials, even as they acknowledge that the force would be a crucial piece of the effort to have Afghans manage their own security so American forces could begin leaving. Taliban infiltration is a constant worry; incompetence an even bigger one. A quarter of the officers quit every year, making the Afghan government’s goals of substantially building up the police force even harder to achieve.
International reactions
Main article:
International public opinion on the war in Afghanistan
Public opinion in 2001
When the invasion began in October 2001, polls indicated that about 88% of Americans and about 65% of Britons backed military action in Afghanistan.
A large-scale 37-nation poll of world opinion carried out by
Gallup
International in late September 2001 found that large majorities in most countries favored a legal response, in the form of extradition and trial, over a military response to 9/11: Only in three countries out of the 37 surveyed – the United States, Israel, and India – did majorities favor military action in Afghanistan. In the other 34 countries surveyed, the poll found many clear majorities that favored extradition and trial instead of military action: in the United Kingdom (75%), France (67%), Switzerland (87%), Czech Republic (64%), Lithuania (83%), Panama (80%), Mexico (94%), and other countries.
An
Ipsos-Reid
poll conducted between November and December 2001 showed that majorities in Canada (66%), France (60%), Germany (60%), Italy (58%), and the U.K. (65%) approved of U.S. airstrikes while majorities in Argentina (77%), China (52%), South Korea (50%), Spain (52%), and Turkey (70%) opposed them.
Development of public opinion
In a 47-nation June 2007 survey of global public opinion, the
Pew Global Attitudes Project
found international opposition to the war. Out of the 47 countries surveyed, 4 had a majority that favoured keeping foreign troops: the U.S. (50%), Israel (59%), Ghana (50%), and Kenya (60%). In 41 of the 47 countries,
pluralities
want U.S. and NATO troops out of Afghanistan as soon as possible. In 32 out of 47 countries, clear majorities wanted this war over as soon as possible. Majorities in 7 out of 12 NATO member countries say troops should be withdrawn as soon as possible.
A 24-nation Pew Global Attitudes survey in June 2008 similarly found that majorities or pluralities in 21 of 24 countries want the U.S. and NATO to remove their troops from Afghanistan as soon as possible. Only in three out of the 24 countries – the United States (50%), Australia (60%), and Britain (48%) – did public opinion lean more toward keeping troops there until the situation has stabilized.
Since that June 2008 global survey, however, public opinion in Australia and Britain has also diverged from that in the U.S., and a majority of Australians and Britons now want their troops to be brought home from Afghanistan. A September 2008 poll found that 56% of Australians opposed the continuation of their country’s military involvement in Afghanistan, while 42% support it. A November 2008 poll found that 68% of Britons want their troops withdrawn within the next 12 months. On the contrary, in the United States, a September 2008 Pew survey found that 61% of Americans wanted U.S. troops to stay until the situation has stabilized, while 33% wanted them removed as soon as possible.
Coalition fatalities per month since the start of the war.
In a November 2009
Gallup
poll, a record66% of Americans said things were going badly for the U.S. in Afghanistan, up from 61% in early September. However, while public opinion was divided over Afghan troop requests, a majority of Americans continued to see a rationale for the use of military force in Afghanistan.A slight plurality of Americans favored troop increases, with 42%–47% favoringat least some troop increases to satisfy the military’s requests, 39%–44% wanting reduction, and 7–9% wanting no changes in troop levels. Just 29% of
Democrats
favor any troop increases while 57% want to begin reducing troops. 36% of Americans approved of Obama’s handling of Afghanistan, including 19% of
Republicans , 31% of
independents , and 54% of Democrats.
In a December 2009
Pew Research Center
poll, only 32 percent of Americans favored increasing U.S. troops in Afghanistan, while 40 percent favored decreasing them. Almost half of Americans, 49 percent, believed that the U.S. should “mind its own business” internationally and let other countries get along the best they can. That figure was an increase from 30 percent who said that in December 2002.
In an April 2011 Pew Research Center poll, there was little change in the American public’s views about Afghanistan, with about 50% saying that the U.S. military effort was going very well or fairly well and only 44% supporting NATO troop presence in Afghanistan. The new survey shows little change since then – 50% favor removing U.S. and NATO troops as soon as possible while 44% favor maintaining the troops in Afghanistan until the situation is stabilized.
Afghan opinions
Recent polls of Afghans have found strong opposition to the Taliban and significant, albeit diminished support of the American military presence. Also, the idea of permanent U.S. military bases vexes many people in Afghanistan, which has a long history of resisting foreign invaders.
Afghan women wait outside a USAID-supported health care clinic.
According to a May 2009 BBC poll, 69% of Afghans surveyed thought it was at least mostly good that the U.S. military came in to remove the Taliban – a decrease from 87% of Afghans surveyed in 2005. 24% thought it was mostly or very bad – up from 9% in 2005. The poll indicated that 63% of Afghans were at least somewhat supportive of a U.S. military presence in the country – down from 78% in 2005. Just 18% supported increasing the U.S. military’s presence, while 44% favored reducing it. 90% of Afghans surveyed opposed the presence of Taliban fighters, including 70% who were strongly opposed. By an 82%–4% margin, people said they preferred the current government to Taliban rule.
In a June 2009
Gallup
survey, about half of Afghan respondents felt that additional U.S. forces would help stabilize the security situation in the southern provinces. But opinions varied widely across Afghanistan at the time; residents in the troubled South were mostly mixed or uncertain, while those in the West largely disagreed that more U.S. troops would help the situation.
In December 2009, many Afghan tribal heads and local leaders from the Pashtun south and east – the heartland of the Taliban insurgency – called for U.S. troop withdrawals. “I don’t think we will be able to solve our problems with military force,” said Muhammad Qasim, a tribal elder from the southern province of Kandahar. “We can solve them by providing jobs and development and by using local leaders to negotiate with the Taliban. If new troops come and are stationed in civilian areas, when they draw Taliban attacks civilians will end up being killed,” said Gulbadshah Majidi, a lawmaker and close associate of Mr. Karzai. “This will only increase the distance between Afghans and their government.
In late January 2010, Afghan protesters took to the streets for three straight days and blocked traffic on a highway that links Kabul and Kandahar. The Afghans were demonstrating in response to the deaths of four men in a NATO-Afghan raid in the village of
Ghazni . Ghazni residents insisted that the dead were civilians.
Protests, demonstrations and rallies
Further information:
Opposition to the War in Afghanistan (2001–present)  and  Protests against the War in Afghanistan (2001–present)
The war has repeatedly been the subject of
large protests around the world
starting with the large-scale demonstrations in the days leading up to the official launch of Operation Enduring Freedom under George W. Bush in October 2001 and every year since. Many protesters consider the bombing and invasion of Afghanistan to be unjustified aggression. The
deaths of thousands of Afghan civilians
caused directly and indirectly by the U.S. and NATO bombing campaigns is also a major underlying focus of the protests. New organizations have arisen to oppose the war; for example, in January 2009, Brave New Foundation launched
Rethink Afghanistan , a national campaign for non-violent solutions in Afghanistan built around a documentary film by director and political activist
Robert Greenwald . Dozens of organizations planned (and eventually held) a national march for peace in Washington, D.C. on 20 March 2010.
Civilian casualties
Main article:
Civilian casualties in the War in Afghanistan (2001–present)
There is no single official figure for the overall number of civilians killed by the war since 2001, but estimates for specific years or periods have been published by a number of organizations. According to a report by the United Nations, the Taliban were responsible for 76% of civilian casualties in Afghanistan in 2009. A UN report in June 2011 stated that 2,777 civilians were known to have been killed in 2010, with insurgents being responsible for 75% of the civilian casualties. Another United Nations report issued in July 2011 said “1,462 non-combatants died” in the first six months of 2011, with insurgents being responsible for 80% of the deaths. In 2011 a record 3,021 civilians were killed in the ongoing insurgency, the fifth successive annual rise.
Very few people in Afghanistan have been unaffected by the armed conflict there. Those with direct personal experience make up 60% of the population, and most others also report suffering a range of serious hardships. In total, almost everyone (96%) has been affected in some way – either personally or due to the wider consequences of armed conflict.
On 11 May 2009, U.S. Secretary of Defense
Robert Gates
replaced McKiernan with General McChrystal as the new U.S. commander of all foreign military forces in Afghanistan. One of General McChrystal’s first announcements was a sharp restriction on the use of
airstrikes
to reduce civilian casualties. Afghan leaders have long pleaded that foreign troops end airstrikes and nighttime raids of Afghan homes. The issue of civilian casualties is recognized as a problem at the highest levels of ISAF command. In a September 2009 report, General McChrystal wrote “Civilian casualties and collateral damage to homes and property resulting from an over-reliance on firepower and force protection have severely damaged ISAF’s legitimacy in the eyes of the Afghan people.
Drug trade
Further information:
Opium production in Afghanistan
Opium production
levels for 2005–2007
Regional security risks and levels of opium poppy cultivation in 2007–2008.
From 1996-1999, the Taliban controlled 96% of Afghanistan’s poppy fields and made opium its largest source of taxation. Taxes on opium exports became one of the mainstays of Taliban income and their war economy. According to Rashid, “drug money funded the weapons, ammunition and fuel for the war. In the
New York Times , the Finance Minister of the United Front, Wahidullah Sabawoon, declared the Taliban had no annual budget but that they “appeared to spend US$ 300 million a year, nearly all of it on war.” He added that the Taliban had come to increasingly rely on three sources of money: “poppy, the Pakistanis and bin Laden.
By 2000 Afghanistan accounted for an estimated 75% of the world’s supply and in 2000 grew an estimated 3276 tonnes of opium from poppy cultivation on 82,171 hectares. At this juncture Omar passed a decree banning the cultivation of opium, and production dropped to an estimated 74 metric tonnes from poppy cultivation on 1,685 hectares. Many observers say the ban – which came in a bid for international recognition at the United Nations – was only issued in order to raise opium prices and increase profit from the sale of large existing stockpiles. The year 1999 had yielded a record crop and had been followed by a lower but still large 2000 harvest.The trafficking of accumulated stocks by the Taliban continued in 2000 and 2001. In 2002, the UN mentioned the “existence of significant stocks of opiated accumulated during previous years of bumper harvests.In September 2001 – before the 11 September attacks against the United States – the Taliban allegedly authorized Afghan peasants to sow opium again.
Soon after the 2001 U.S. led invasion of Afghanistan opium production increased markedly. By 2005, Afghanistan had regained its position as the world’s No. 1 opium producer and was producing 90% of the world’s opium, most of which is processed into heroin and sold in Europe and Russia. In 2009, the BBC reported that “UN findings say an opium market worth $65bn (£39bn) funds global terrorism, caters to 15 million addicts, and kills 100,000 people every year.
While U.S. and allied efforts to combat the drug trade have been stepped up, the effort is hampered by the fact that many suspected drug traffickers are now top officials in the Karzai government. Recent estimates by the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime ( UNODC ) estimate that 52% of the nation’s GDP, amounting to $2.7 billion annually, is generated by the drug trade. The rise in production has been linked to the deteriorating security situation, as production is markedly lower in areas with stable security. By some, the extermination of the poppy crops is not seen as a viable option because the sale of poppies constitutes the livelihood of Afghanistan’s rural farmers. Some 3.3 million Afghans are involved in producing opium. Opium is more profitable than wheat and destroying opium fields could possibly lead to discontent or unrest among the indigent population.
Some poppy eradication programs have, however, proven effective, especially in the north of Afghanistan. The
opium poppy
eradication program of
Balkh
Governor
Ustad Atta Mohammad Noor
between 2005 and 2007 successfully reduced poppy cultivation in Balkh Province from 7,200 hectares in 2005 to zero by 2007.
Human rights abuses
Main article:
Human rights in Afghanistan
There have been multiple accounts of human rights violations in Afghanistan.The fallout of the U.S. led invasion, including a resurgence in Taliban forces, record-high drug production, and re-armed warlords, has led to a threat to the well-being and rights of hundreds of thousands of innocent Afghan citizens, according to
Human Rights Watch .
Taliban
According to a report by the United Nations, the Taliban were responsible for 76% of civilian casualties in Afghanistan in 2009. The Afghanistan Independent Human Rights Commission (AIGRC) called the Taliban’s terrorism against the Afghan civilian population a war crime.Religious leaders condemned Taliban terrorist attacks and said these kinds of attacks are against Islamic ethics.
According to Amnesty International, the Taliban commit war crimes by targeting civilians, including killing teachers, abducting aid workers and burning school buildings. Amnesty International said that up to 756 civilians were killed in 2006 by bombs, mostly on roads or carried by suicide attackers belonging to the Taliban.
During the conflict, NATO has alleged that the Taliban have used civilians as human shields. As an example, NATO pointed to the victims of NATO air strikes in Farah province in May 2009, during which the Afghan government claims up to 150 civilians were killed. NATO stated that it had evidence that the Taliban forced civilians into buildings likely to be targeted by NATO aircraft involved in the battle. US Lieutenant Colonel Greg Julian, a spokesman for General McKiernan, NATO’s Afghanistan commander, said of the Taliban’s tactics, “This was a deliberate plan by the Taliban to create a civilian casualty crisis. These were not human shields; these were human sacrifices. We have intelligence that points to this. ( NATO
has not provided this intelligence to the public.)
The increase in Taliban power has also led to increased human rights violations against women in Afghanistan, according to the U.S. State Department.
Elections during combat
Several elections have been held in Afghanistan since 2001. The most recent election was held 18 September 2010, for the Afghan Parliament with a reported 2,499 candidates competing for 250 seats. During the elections the Taliban attacked many of those involved, killing 11 civilians and 3 Afghan National Policemen in over 300 attacks on the polls. The low death toll at the hands of the Taliban can be attributed to stepped up operations specifically targeting the leaders of insurgents planning attacks in the days leading up to the elections.which captured hundreds of insurgents and explosives. Turnout at election was 40%.
Former Afghan warlords
Former Afghan warlords and political strongmen supported by the US during the ousting of the Taliban were responsible for numerous human rights violations in 2003 including kidnapping, rape, robbery, and extortion.
Controversy over torture
In March 2002,
ABC News
claimed top officials at the CIA authorized controversial, harsh interrogation techniques.The possible interrogation techniques included shaking and slapping, shackling prisoners in a standing position, keeping the prisoner in a cold cell and dousing them with water, and
water boarding .A United Nations study in 2011 reported on interviews with 379 detainees. It found those held by police or intelligence services were subjected to beatings, removal of toenails and electric shocks.
White phosphorus use
White phosphorus
has been condemned by human rights organizations as cruel and inhumane because it causes severe burns. There are cases that have been confirmed of white phosphorus burns on the bodies of civilians wounded in Afghanistan caused by clashes between U.S. and Taliban forces near
Bagram . The United States claims at least 44 instances in which militants have used white phosphorus in weapons or attacks. In May 2009, Colonel
Gregory Julian , a spokesman for General McKiernan, the overall commander of U.S. and NATO forces in Afghanistan, confirmed that Western military forces in Afghanistan use white phosphorus to illuminate targets or as an incendiary to destroy bunkers and enemy equipment. US forces used white phosphorus to screen a retreat in the
Battle of Ganjgal
when regular smoke munitions were not available.The Afghan government later launched an investigation into the use of white phosphorus munitions.
2 Comments »
Search for:
Calendar
October 2015
M
T
W
T
F
S
S
« Sep
1 2 3 4
5 6 7 8 9 10 11
12 13 14 15 16 17 18
19 20 21 22 23 24 25
26 27 28 29 30 31
Blog Stats
521,449 hits
Pages
About
Archaeologists Find Sunken Nazi Sub in Indonesia with 17 Skeletons
Contact
Home
Nearby Star Has Strange Cool Layer Like the Sun
Categories
ANTHROPOLOGY
(1)
Antiques Corner
(12)
ARCHAEOLOGY
(33)
Business News
(25)
CULTURE of Indonesia
(11)
EDUCATION, BOOK, MOVIE,MUSIC & SPORT CORNER
(115)
GEOLOGY
(25)
HEALTH
(55)
Indonesian Tribes
(14)
INVIRONMENT
(2)
Kate Middleton Biography
(7)
MILITARY CORNER
(39)
News
(253)
Relaxing Corner
(125)
SCIENCE
(101)
SCIENCE, GEOLOGY,HEALTH, INVIRONMENT, TECHNOLOGY,ANTHROPOLOGY, ARCHAEOLOGY,
(2,719)
TECHNOLOGY
(19)
THE ART
(124)
The Beautiful Temples in Indonesia
(7)
THE COMPOSER
(4)
The Most Beautiful Church around the world and in Indonesia
(6)
THE UNIVERSE & SPACE SCIENCE
(799)
The World’s Magnificent Pagodas, Temples, Palaces etc
(16)
The World’s Magnificent Pagodas,Temples, Palaces etc
(1)
Uncategorized
(16)
UNDERWATER ARCHAEOLOGY
(52)
World Military Corner
(109)
WORLD'S HISTORY
(277)
Archives
October 2015
September 2015
August 2015
July 2015
June 2015
May 2015
April 2015
March 2015
February 2015
January 2015
December 2014
November 2014
October 2014
September 2014
August 2014
July 2014
June 2014
May 2014
April 2014
March 2014
February 2014
January 2014
December 2013
November 2013
October 2013
September 2013
August 2013
July 2013
June 2013
May 2013
April 2013
March 2013
February 2013
January 2013
December 2012
November 2012
October 2012
September 2012
August 2012
July 2012
June 2012
May 2012
April 2012
March 2012
February 2012
January 2012
December 2011
November 2011
Flag Counter
RSS Links
RSS - Posts RSS - Comments
Follow Blog via Email
Enter your email address to follow this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Top Posts & Pages
Korowai & Kombai – Papua Tree people - Asmat - Yali Tribe
10 Countries with the Most Beautiful Women in the World
Here’s what lurks inside the world’s deepest pits
"Samurai" Japanese Sword.
Traditional & Wedding Dress of Indonesian Tribes
Traditional House of Indonesia
Stunning Arctic volcanoes
Keris - Javanese and other's tribes Traditional Dagger/ Blade.
Hanging Gardens of Babylon
About
Create a free website or blog at WordPress.com .
The Black-LetterHead Theme .
2eyeswatching
Create a free website or blog at WordPress.com .
The Black-LetterHead Theme .
Follow
Follow “2eyeswatching”
Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.
Join 80 other followers
Build a website with WordPress.com
Add your thoughts here... (optional)
Post to
Cancel