Military Monday: The B-36 Peacemaker - Behind Blue Lines
Behind Blue Lines
Samizdat from the Blue Northeast
Home
About
Contributors
Contact
Feed – Subscribe
Military Monday: The B-36 Peacemaker
by
Crocker
on
March 29, 2010, 10:27 am
in
History , Military
I betray my age and Cold War lifespan with this week’s topic, the Convair
B-36 “Peacemaker”
strategic bomber. The B-36 was an enormous, ungainly aircraft powered by six Pratt & Whitney
R-4360 Wasp
radial piston engines arranged in a “pusher” configuration.
Later production models also sported four
General Electric J47
jet engines in twin pods slung near the bomber’s wingtips.
These engines – and the pods themselves – were the same as found on the Boeing
B-47 Stratojet . It was the first bomber with capacity to carry without modification first-generation nuclear and thermonuclear gravity bombs like the
Mark 17 .
The initial planning for the B-36 began in the early 1940s in response to an Army Air Force requirement for a bomber with range sufficient to fly to Europe and back again on its internal fuel load – this being before aerial refueling.
While the B-36 was never conceived of as a nuclear-capable bomber, it was pressed into this role during the 1950s before more advanced aircraft entered service. The first prototype flew in 1946 and the bomber went into full production in 1949.
The B-36 entered service at precisely the same time as a new generation of jet bombers – such as the B-47 and
B-52
– were under development.
Being relatively slow and relying on piston-engine technology, the design was arguably obsolescent at the time it entered service.
The B-36 was enormously expensive both to produce and maintain.
Because they were employed in a pusher configuration, the R-4360 engines were prone to overheating, carburetor icing and fires.
Lubricating oil consumption and fuel leaks were a constant headache.
Still, the bomber was produced in great numbers and diverted funds from other branches, particularly naval construction and army readiness.
In the opinion of then- Secretary of Defense Louis Johnson , air-dropped nuclear weapons rendered all other branches – particularly the navy – superfluous.
The Navy’s furious reaction to Johnson’s position has come to be known as the
“Revolt of the Admirals” .
Still, the B-36 served as a front-line bomber until 1958 and operated constantly in missions throughout the world in every conceivable climate.
Another oddity of bomber development during this era was Convair’s submission of the
YB-60 prototype
as a direct competitor to Boeing’s B-52.
The YB-60 was an updated, swept-winged version of the B-36 judged inferior to the B-52 in about every respect.
Another of Convair’s designs that did enter production, however, was the radical – and supersonic –
B-58 Hustler .
Here are two videos with more information – and great views – of the B-36.
The first is taken from the 1955 film,
Strategic Air Command , starring Jimmy Stewart and June Allyson. This will give you an idea both of the aircraft’s size and its complexity.
The second is an Australian documentary in five parts about the B-36.
Enjoy.
Tweet
Related posts:
Military Monday: The USS North Carolina
Military Monday: Congressional Misbehavior During WWII
Military Monday: The Battle of Peleliu and the 2000-Yard Stare
Tagged as:
B-36 ,
B-47 ,
B-52 ,
Convair ,
J47 ,
Louis Johnson ,
R-4360 ,
Revolt of the Admirals
Leave a Comment
Name
*
E-mail
*
Website
Notify me of follow-up comments by email.
Notify me of new posts by email.
Previous post:
Florida Attorney General Files Lawsuit Opposing ObamaCare
Next post:
Our Future Under ObamaCare – in Britain
Blogroll
Ace of Spades HQ
Althouse
American Thinker
As Maine Goes
Belmont Club
Breitbart
Calculated Risk
Counterterrorism Blog
DirectorBlue
Dr. Housing Bubble
Fausta's Blog
Frugal Cafe Blogspot
Gateway Pundit
Hot Air
Hugh Hewitt
In From the Cold
Instapundit
Jammie Wearing Fool
Legal Insurrection
Marginal Revolution
Michelle Malkin
Naked Emperor News
Pajamas Media
Patrick Chovanec
Patterico’s Pontifications
Powerline
Protein Wisdom
Radio Equalizer
Real Clear Politics
Red State
Small Wars Journal
Strategy Page
The Austrian Economists
The Claremont Institute
The Scoop Deck
Verum Serum
War News Update
Wealth Alchemy
Zero Hedge
Top Posts in the Last 48
Back to the Cold War: The LABS Maneuver
The Second Amendment and the Battle of Athens
New Hampshire Overtakes Maine - in Population
The Gettysburg Address 150 Years On
Maine's Leftist Population Bomb
Recent Comments Fascism in America: Woodrow Wilson and "War Socialism"
on
Woodrow Wilson: The Nation’s Worst President Open Letter to America: If You Don’t Like the Way Government is Being Run, Why Do You Keep Electing the Same Corruptocrats? | The Foxhole
on
Woodrow Wilson: The Nation’s Worst President IV – War Socialism David Axelrod Declares Obama’s Regime to be Scandal Free | The Foxhole
on
Woodrow Wilson: The Nation’s Worst President IV – War Socialism Slow Strangulation: Welcome to the Regulatory State | The Maine Heritage Policy Center
on
Barack Obama, Woodrow Wilson and the Administrative State The Obama Regime Holds ‘Extremism’ Summit, Says Muzzie Terrorists ‘Just Need a Big Hug and Jobs, But Mostly Jobs’ | The Foxhole
on
Woodrow Wilson: The Nation’s Worst President IV – War Socialism
Search Archives
Copyright © 2009 David P. Crocker and other contributors. All rights reserved.
Website design by
Rowboat Media
built on
Thesis.
Checkpoint Charlie image under Creative Commons license from Wikipedia user Scapler.
Twitter
Facebook
RSS
LinkedIn
grab this