"7 High" Chapter 2 "Peace is our Profession"
“7 High”
Recollections of a Combat Defense Squadron
Ramp Rat
Chapter 2
“Peace is our Profession”
8
November 1960, we had already been told, back at Lackland, that SAC was a hard
assed outfit and that once you were assigned into SAC, they never let you get
out into the “Real” Air Force.
8
November 1960
United States presidential
election, 1960 : In a close race,
John
F. Kennedy
is elected over
Richard
M. Nixon ,
At
home on leave in Spokane, my Mother did most of the work, sewing on those A3C
stripes.  Three pair 505’s, three pair fatigues, two blue blouses, two bush
jackets, and that heavy overcoat.  My fingers were sore, and I’d never have
made it without her help.
It’s
hard to get those little stripes on straight.  It showed up a lot more if they
were crooked.  I never heard them called “mosquito wings” until recently, but
it certainly fits.
It
seemed like there was precious little time at home before I set out for my new
assignment.  I rode the
Great Northern
Railway
“ Western
Star ” to Chicago.   This was my second stop over in the “Windy City”, and I always had a good time here.  She is still my favorite “big” city.  Then I
took the
Wabash Railroad
to Peru, Indiana.
18
November 1960, to me, Peru seemed to be a nice, sleepy little town.  The main
drag ran North/South.  At the north end, near the railroad station, was the
notorious Rainbow Bar.  About midway down the street on the west side, was the
theater.  Across from that was a good sized hotel with restaurant and bar.  A
little further south, on the west side, was the Army/Navy store.
Like
any other American city of the day, there was also a five and dime store,
department store, and, like any other American City of the day, numerous
drinking establishments, all conveniently located on the main street.  It was
nice enough burg, almost a smaller version of Spokane.  But after enjoying my
visit to the Windy City, this was nothing to write home about.
I
would have probably have just looked around a little bit and then caught a bus
for the base, charged out there, and reported, just like I had been taught in
basic, “A3C Dipshit, reporting as ordered, Sir”.  But, as Lady Luck would have
it, I ran into a fellow that was stationed at Bunker Hill.  He was in civvies’,
but was an A3C, assigned to the OMS Squadron and had been here for a few
months.
We
got to talking, and he gave me some VERY good advice.  First of all, he said,
“You’re on leave until midnight.  It’s your time.”  Second, he informed me,
“You can drink legally in Indiana, no matter what your age, if you are in the
military.”  Third, “This is Friday.  After five o’clock, no in-processing will
be happening until Monday.”  Fourth, “You don’t need to take a bus to the base,
I’ll show you where the free ride stand is.”
This
guy deserved a medal, but instead, I bought him several drinks in the Hotel
Bar.  They even had live music, a piano player.  Being allowed to drink in
public, this was a first for me, having just celebrated my eighteenth birthday
while at Lackland.
Vodka
Collins was the drink of the evening, real cocktails, no beer for this kid.  I
also discovered that if you were in a bar, in uniform, a lot of free drinks
were directed your way.
My
newfound friend showed me around town, in the proper pub crawl fashion.  The
locals were very friendly, they asked if I was going to be stationed out at the
Navy Base, and I discovered that
Bunker
Hill AFB
had originally been Navy.  It seemed an unlikely place for a Naval
Base.
Well,
it was Air Force now, and if Peru was going to be home, I loved it right off.
So,
about 10 pm, I retrieved my duffle and AWOL bag from the railroad station, and
we walked to the “Share a Ride” stand for airmen.  We were immediately picked
up and dropped off right outside the Combat Defense Squadron orderly room.
I
showed my orders to the Charge of Quarters, CQ, he didn’t know what to do with
me.  Someone lounging in the day room said, “Why don’t you put him in Tootsie’s
room?”  It was just down the hall, so he did.
“Tootsie”,
it turns out was an A2C who was TDY to Loring, MA, so, I had a nice private
room, with a sink, that shared a shower and head with the room next door.  I
fell into bed, and slept late the next morning.
The
guys next door were slightly nuts, and very friendly.  A2C “Harvey” and A3C
“Oop”, they had been here for a while and were working the ramp on “B Flight”.
They took me over to the mess hall for lunch.
The
only thing that the mess halls at Bunker Hill had in common with those at
Lackland was that morning smell.  There were no metal mess trays here.  Real
plates, embellished with the SAC crest and blue star border.  There was food to
order, with choices, and absolutely no rushing.  It was fantastic.
Walking
back to the CDS barracks after lunch, we saw a flight of A3C being marched to
the mess hall.  I was shocked to see that it was the rest of the guys I shipped
out of Lackland with.  There was an A1C “White Hat” Air Policeman marching
them.
My
new neighbors had pointed out that being marched around on a SAC base was very
rare, and considered humiliating.  Also, no one wore those grey fatigues and
caps from basic. It was like being a “rainbow” flight.  They also let me know
that there was no pass required to leave base, you just left.  It was like
heaven.
It
turned out that the other thirty five “Almost Apprentice Air Policemen” that I
left Lackland with, were being housed in a different barracks, four to a room,
treated like dipshits, standing formations and inspections, they even had
drill, and were going to be marched around the base to the various places
necessary to process in.  Some of these stops would include, Personnel, Supply,
Pass and ID, Hospital, Dental Clinic, Squadron Orderly Room, etc.
It
being Saturday, my neighbors and I caught a lift to downtown Peru for a few drinks and some shopping.  At the Army/Navy store, I traded my grey issued
field jacket for an Army green one, purchased green fatigues, Ridgway hat, with
rank pin, and a “tanker” jacket that could pass for a B-15 jacket.  At the time
the B-15 jacket was only being issued to aircrews and was much sought after by
the air police troops.  Also, a blue web belt with huge chrome buckle, and a
rubber grommet to fit inside the service cap and stretch the white hat cover
taunt to give it that “fifty mission crush”.  I also ordered the embossed
nametag with SAC emblem that was required on Class A’s.
I
had my new green fatigues tailored at the base laundry, with the squadron patch
and my proud new A3C stripes sewed on nice and straight.  Then I washed the
hell out of them so as to look like one of the old troops.
As
soon as I was issued boots, I traded the nasty, plain toe, ugly things for a
lightly worn resoled pair of Corcorans.  It was kind of like instant time in
grade.  I learned from the old hands how to iron uniforms, and the different
methods of boot lacing.
At
the BX I purchased a clock radio and a set of cheap civvies to wear while off
duty, SAC stationary spray starch for ironing.
I
quickly learned to show up at any in processing point, ahead of the marching
band of apprentice air policemen.  The clerical personnel were much easier to
deal with before that huge workload arrived.
Since
those 77010’s were behaving like trainees, the clerks took advantage of that
and treated them like it was back in basic training.
Once,
that white hat A1C that was in charge of them questioned why I wasn’t in his
marching band of rookies, but I was able to tell him, “I’ve all ready got my
three oh rating.”  It never occurred to him that it was in other than air
police.  That “bypass” “three-oh” in photography didn’t get me the job, but did
save me a lot of suffering.
I
remember walking over to the personnel building early in the morning.  It was
so cold that the snow squeaked when you stepped down on it.  Already, I had
heard talk in the barracks about something called “The Hawk”.
I
used some of my free time to look around the base.  Near the main gate there
were static display aircraft, a
B-17
and
B-47 .
I wish I still had the black and white photos
so I could identify those aircraft parked at the main gate.  The B-17 nose art
had a martini glass and it was the Martini something…  The B-47 might have had
a local (Indiana) name, Like “The City of Peru” or Kokomo, or Logansport.
I
learned something about the history of the outfit.
The
305th
Bombardment Wing
was a f amous
WWII bomb group that developed low altitude precision bombing and the combat
box, under the direction of the unit commander,
General Curtis LeMay .
General LeMay
His
photo glowered at us from the walls of offices, orderly rooms, and
headquarters.  General LeMay had a reputation for being a hard ass commander,
giving and taking stripes freely.
He
had nicknames like “Bombs Away, LeMay” and  “Ceegar LeMay”.  The General was
definitely in my
chain of command .  He had a reputation among
the troops for being mercurial.  You could be promoted or busted on the spot.
http://www.stripes.com/photoday/112606photoday.html
General
Lemay had previously been commander of both SAC and the 305th Bomb Wing, so he
had a particular interest in Bunker Hill.  When he visited, his aircraft didn’t
wait for maintenance on the runway to be cleared, but took off on the taxiway.
It was a (K)C-135, I don’t know if he was at the controls.
305th Bomb Wing
Being
in the 305th CDS barracks with the working troops, I picked up a lot of
pointers, on a wide range of subjects.  like “the hawk” and “snow snakes.”, and
made new friends in the “B Flight” bay.
I
learned that this influx of CDS troops, of which I was part, was to support the
new
B-58 Hustlers .  The
Hustlers were replacing the, soon to be extinct, B-47’s.  The B-47s were no
longer on alert, but were still on base.
The
wing’s
KC-97
tankers were all
ready gone, replaced by jets, the
KC-135 ,
these were nearly identical to the Branniff Airways 707 that I had flown from Dallas to San Antonio.
Bunker
Hill AFB also had an
Air
Defense Command , (ADC), tenant unit, the 319th Fighter Interceptor
Squadron. They were flying the “Delta Dart”,
F-106 .  Those things could really
go, and they usually went in pairs.  The 319th 106s had a tomcat painted on the
tail with the motto, “We get ours at night”.
319th Fighter Interceptor
Squadron
It
was also pointed out to me, that as a rookie I was certain to be assigned to a
lot of cold security walking posts, and that a sweat suit under fatigues made
the best underwear in cold weather.  I also learned some of the myriad methods
of blousing boots, cans, chains, tape, hooked elastic to hold the trousers.
Processing
in at supply, we were issued arctic weather gear, parka, flight pants, long
underwear, mukluks and liners, leather gloves, woolen gloves, mittens, rain
rear, rain boots.  I’m sure I’ve forgotten half the stuff.
Plus,
all the AP gear, boots, web belt, leather “ Sam Browne ” gear and
brand new natural leather Army 45 holster that first had to be dyed black.
There were also white hat covers, lanyard, fire hose, and gloves.  It was
another mountain of gear.
Nightsticks
were included, and caused a number of injuries in the barracks that evening.
We
had to scrounge our own parachute cord for boot laces.  Dyed black for use with
fatigues, bleached white for blues.  Boot lacing was an art we were learning.
My skinny ankles didn’t give enough room for the “spider”, so I standardized on
the “ladder” style.
There
were some things that my “three-oh” charm didn’t work on.  Since Air Policemen
were not required to pull KP it was customary before beginning duties to
perform 59 days of KP.  Rumor had it that if you did 60 days you automatically
were assigned a Food Service three level AFSC.
We
didn’t do 59 days of KP in a row.  It was interspersed with SAC Manual 205-5,
job training, re-qualifying with the carbine, getting a shot at qualifying with
the .45, etc.
KP
was a good place to get some wear out of the grey fatigues and brogans.  Also,
my clipper skills from basic training came in handy.  There was the
potato-peeling incident, in which rather than eye the potatoes we ground them
down to the size of golf balls in the peeling machine.  Some cooks took a dim
view of the cops, especially us rookies.
My
first Thanksgiving and then Christmas away from home slipped under the bridge.
The Food Service Squadron did pretty damn good, but it wasn’t like being at
home.  I spent a lot of time writing letters on the new fancy stationary
advertising the
Strategic
Air Command , (SAC).
By
now we definitely knew we were in SAC.  There was an Air Force way, and a SAC
way.  We were to do it the SAC way.  There was a “clone” of the SAC emblem
floating around, showing the mailed fist clutching a pair of severed
testicles.  Also a photo of a toothless old geezer, wearing a flight helmet,
with the caption, “You can sleep tonight, SAC is on the job!”
There
was a pop machine in our barracks.  It dispensed into a leaky paper cup.  The
Squirt was always out, so was the Cola.  Seems like it was always Gilbys gin
and Dr Pepper.  I had a bad experience with scotch whisky that forever changed
my DNA.
SAC
Manual 205-5 training was boring stuff.  How high fences should be, how the
lighting should be set up.  How far between signs, and what they should say.
We learned how to challenge, and on and on.  There was new memory work.
A
“7 High” was “A message dispatched to SAC Headquarters whenever an event occurs
which could adversely effect the capability to launch the strike force, and
which cannot clearly and immediately be ruled out as possible sabotage or enemy
action.”
From
any telephone on base, dialing 7 would connect you to the CSC Sabotage Alert
phone.
There
was a lot more, “Redskin”, “Broken Arrow”, EWO Procedures, SAC Two Man Policy,
The DEFCONs, SAC Manual 205-5, ( Appendix “A” , memory work, has
some of this stuff, the rest can be found at
3973CDS.com .)
There
were four kinds of Alert Force Alerts.
When
the klaxon went off, Alert Crews proceeded immediately to their aircraft.  If
they were in the BX, the Barber Shop, or the OC, the entire crew had to stay
together.
At
the sound of the klaxon, then ran for their vehicles, and sped to their
aircraft.  Responding alert crews had right of way over all other traffic, and
it was pedal to the metal.  They were driving mostly fifty eight and fifty nine
Ford station wagons at the time.
There
was no way to tell what kind of alert the klaxon was sounding for.  The entire
base proceeded as if each was the real thing.   When the crews reached their
aircraft and contacted the command post they might be told it was just an
exercise, or not.
The
alert would continue as if we were going to war until the command post called
it an exercise.
If
it was an “Alpha” the exercise was terminated as soon as the aircrews got to
their aircraft and made radio contact with the command post.
Otherwise
the scenario just continued to play out.  Aircrews started engines, notified
the command post when they were ready to taxi, and if it was “Bravo” Alert,
were notified by the command post, and the exercise was then terminated.
Otherwise,
the crews proceeded towards launch.  They taxied to the runway and began their
takeoff roll, if it was “Coco” Alert, the exercise was then ended.
If
no termination order was received, the alert aircraft launched at 20 second
intervals.  This was a “Delta” alert.  We didn’t see very many of these.  The “ Skyshield ”
Operations were the only ones I saw.
We
learned that flight line security was divided into four flights, A thru D.
Each flight worked a schedule of, three swings, three mids, three days, and
then three days off.  Swing swift was 3pm to midnight, mid shift was twelve to
7am, day shift, 7am to 3pm.
We
were given the opportunity to qualify with the .45 cal pistol.  I don’t think
anyone did.  The range was a real experience, in the basement, very loud, there
was no ear protection available except spent cartridge casings that we stuffed
in our ears.
Especially
during rapid fire, hot brass would come over the partition.  Failure to button
up the shirt collar was usually only done once.  It was very important to
qualify with a .45 if you ever wanted to pull an inside post.  I took every
opportunity to go to that crappy range and practice, until I finally qualified.
The
reason for this motivation was the cold.  I soon learned about the “Hawk”.  The
Hawk would swoop in off Lake Michigan, bringing the icy cold.  You could tell
when it was cold, the snow squeaked beneath your feet.
It
was some time before we were actually put to work.  The older troops took
advantage of this to install fear, uncertainty, and doubt. (Later to be known
as
FUD , and not to be confused with
FOD .)
Maybe my proximity to these “old troops” had something to do with my
impressions.
There
were plenty of war stories floating around.  One of the favorites had to do
with “Snow Snakes”.  Now, those of us from colder climes could see the humor in
these tales of snow snakes, and went along with the program.  There were some
of the new guys from the south that were seriously afraid of having a
snow snake
crawl up their pant leg, and what would happen after
that.
What
was going on in the real world?  We had no time for that.
17
January 1961, the outgoing Commander in Chief , Dwight David Eisenhower ,
made his last state of the union address, and the same day made his famous
farewell speech, warning of the military industrial complex.
20
January 1961,
John F.
Kennedy
was sworn in as President of the United States.  His inaugural
address, “Ask not what your country can do for you.  Ask what you can do for
your country” was stirring, and I think that we felt that we were doing
“something” for our country.  Now, we had a new Commander in Chief.  This was
to be only the first of many changes to our
chain of command .
24
January 1961, a SAC
B-52
with nuclear weapons crashed in North Carolina.   Of course this is something
that the squadron rumor mill considered important enough to discuss endlessly.
24
January 1961
A U.S.
B-52 Stratofortress , with two nuclear bombs,
crashes near
Goldsboro, North Carolina
25 January 1961
In Washington, DC
John
F. Kennedy
delivers the first live presidential news conference. In it, he
announces that the
Soviet Union
has freed the 2 surviving crewmen of a
USAF
RB-47
reconnaissance
plane shot down by Soviet flyers over the
Barents Sea
July 1, 1960
(see RB-47H shot down).
1 February 1961
The United States launches its first test of
the
Minuteman I
intercontinental ballistic missile.
I
went to downtown Peru with one of the fellows I had known since basic
training.  I had been to a teen dance club with some of the other fellows, and
was going to show him the ropes.  I didn’t understand what was going on, when
the doorman said that we could not come in.  I had been there several times
before, we were both wearing blues, and in our teens, so I didn’t see what the
problem was.
The
doorman told me my friend was “Negro”, and they were not allowed.  I turned and
looked at my friend in astonishment.  Never having experienced segregation
before was the least of it.  How could this doorman think that my friend was
Negro?  I had known him for months and he didn’t look like “Negro” to me.  We
had never discussed race.  He certainly didn’t look black to me.
I
wanted to go in anyway and to hell with them, but he was embarrassed and just
wanted to leave. So, we went around the corner to the bar for drinks.
After
we got settled in, I asked him how this doorman thought he was a “Negro”?  I
had known him for months and that had never even occurred to me.  Having no
clue, I could only conclude that some folks are awfully picky, I guess, because
he hardly had a tan.
I
don’t think either one of us had ever been confronted with racism before, or
maybe it was only me that was naive.  Certainly, we didn’t spend much time
worrying about it, and never went back.  But it was that time in the world that
racism in America was in the news almost daily.
In
the State of Indiana they had some funny liquor laws, not to mention the big
one I’ve already bragged about; that servicemen could drink, regardless of
age.
We
went in, sat down at the bar, ordered drinks and were happily sipping away when
we noticed some of our friends at a nearby table.  Picking up our drinks, we
started to move to their table when the waitress descended upon us with great
wrath, causing the spilling of drinks.  “You are not allowed to stand up with a
drink in your hand”, she shouted at us.
There
are a lot of funny laws, and they change all the time.  But, anyway, after we
enjoyed the hospitality of Peru, Indiana for the evening, we walked to the
“Share a Ride” stand, and before long a sedan with a SAC Crest and blue
officer’s sticker in the windshield stopped to pick us up.
We
loaded into the back seat.  It was a married couple, in civilian clothes.  He
was driving; she was really feeling no pain.  Turning around in her seat to
talk to us, she asked what squadron we were with.  When we told her “Combat
Defense”, she beamed at us and introduced herself and her husband.
We
were in the company of our Squadron Operations Officer and his gregarious wife,
Lucille.  She told us that we were “her boys” and anything we needed just let
her know and it would be taken care of, giving us the impression that she ran
the whole base.  We had no reason not to believe her.
She
was really on a roll and it was new and scary to us.  It must have been a hell
of a party.  They dropped us off right in front of the barracks and she told us
again to let her know if we needed anything.
While
we were training and pulling KP, we were also waiting for our “Secret” security
clearances to come through.  Early in March we received our flight line badges,
the SAC Form 138, and were finally ready to go to work.
MAD
Magazine
pointed out on
its cover for the March 1961 issue, this was the first "upside-up"
year—i.e., one in which the numerals that form the year look the same as when
the numerals are rotated upside down—since 1881, and the last until 6009.
1
March 1961, we were assigned to flights.  I was lucky and was assigned to “B
Flight”, along with my next door buddies, Harvey, and Oop.  By this time
Tootsie, my roommate, had returned from TDY and was humping the ramp for “B
Flight” also.  I didn’t even have to move.
My
buddies from basic, the other 35 incoming Air Policemen, joined us in the Combat
Defense Squadron barracks.
Among
those moving into the “B Flight” bay was that lucky airman from Texas that got those perfumed,
SWAK
letters during basic training.  I
actually got to read one of those letters and I couldn’t understand why I
didn’t know any girls like that.
That
first duty shift was a midnight shift and I tried to get plenty of sleep, but
was nervous.  I had no idea where I would be assigned and really couldn’t
imagine what any of these places, the alert area, or the MMS (Munitions
Maintenance Area), or even the Aircraft Parking area looked like.  We had never
been there, but we had heard plenty of war stories by now. B-47’s were no
longer pulling alert by this time.  The alert area was filled to capacity with
KC-135 s, and the security was
just the same as if they were nuclear alert bombers.
At
this time, the 305th Combat Defense Squadron had some procedures that seemed
unusual in my later assignments, but at the time, we had no frame of reference.
Air
Police Shields were issued along with weapons at Central Security Control
(CSC), before guard mount.  We went through the loading/clearing barrel
procedure, but weapons were not carried loaded.  Guard mount was always
conducted in the parking lot at CSC, no matter what the weather.
That
first night, I was assigned to a perimeter in the Alert Area.  It was snowing
like crazy.  I had no idea where the limits of my post were and worried about
straying onto another post.  I walked shorter and shorter lengths along the
perimeter road.
As
it snowed, it covered my tracks, and I was even less sure where I was.  It was
too cold to stand still.  Walking along with my parka hood pulled up, I flushed
a flock of quail and my heart stopped.  Snow snakes couldn’t have been any
worse.
Later
we were to learn that to walk around with a parka hood up was to invite a
handful of snow thrust in from behind.  You needed to turn your body around in
order to see to the sides or the rear.  It was easy to observe if a sentry
wasn’t doing that, he was an easy target.
The
alert area wasn’t lighted.  The perimeter fence was lit with eye level, high
intensity, and outward facing lights.  You had to watch those lights.  If
something made one of them blink, it was between you and the light.  As you
were walking your post a light might blink, and it could be an obstruction, but
if you were standing still and it blinked, it would be an intruder.
In
the reflection of the indirect lighting, it looked like there were passenger
windows in the alert KC-135s.  With snow covering the ramp it was difficult to
tell how the alert area was laid out.
For
a break, I was relieved and taken to the Alert Area Access Point, a small
concrete block building at the gate.  There was a small heater, and a coffee
pot, but with four or five people standing around in arctic gear, it seemed
worse than being outside in the snow.
The
Alert Area Supervisor was a Staff Sergent and the Access Controller an Airman
First Class, three stripes.  I didn’t feel completely at ease in close
proximity to so much rank.  At least outside, you could walk around.
It
was still dark when were relieved by the oncoming flight, and I still had no
good idea of what the alert area looked like.
21
March 1961, was my first assignment to a strike team was day shift.  There had
been a
B-47
incident the night
before.  According to rumor, a B-47 had landed, missing an engine and 12 feet
of wing.
After
guard mount, our A1C “B” Strike Team Leader was very friendly, and since we
were talking about this B-47 incident, he asked if we would like to see it, and
proceeded to drive us to where the aircraft was parked and let us walk around
it.  We were impressed with the B-47 and its ability to land safely with that
much damage.  I don’t know where the engine and chunk of wing came down.
The
aircraft landed at 1910 CST 20 Mar 61, according to “ A
Cold War Legacy ”. Here is the synopsis.
At 1556 CST, three B-47’s and a KC-135
were launched from Bunker Hill AFB, on a training mission.  Rendezvous with the
tanker was completed and the first B-47 accomplished a hook up and took on a
token fuel load.  The second B-47 moved into position, made a normal hook up
and took on 6,000 lbs of fuel.  After a planned disconnect and second contact
at 1636 CST, the B-47 pilot felt a heavy jolt from the right wing, followed by
severe vibration.  The KC-135 boom operator reported an apparent explosion and
departure of the No. 6 engine from the receiver aircraft.  The pilot of the
B-47 saw the engine and debris leave the aircraft.  An immediate breakaway was
executed, and while severe vibration was present, the aircraft remained under
control.  Ten minutes later, a 11’4” section of wing outboard of the No. 6
engine position also departed the aircraft.  Some hydraulic control was also
lost.  The aircraft descended to 10,000’ under Visual Flight Rules and returned
to Bunker Hill AFB.  The approach chute was not used, due to cross winds and
engine power limitations.  The aircraft landed without incident at 1910 CST.
Subsequent investigation revealed a chunk type failure of the No.6 engine
turbine wheel.
That
makes it sound easy, doesn’t it?  The safety report makes it sound a bit
scarier.
A B-47 from a mid-western
base took off as number three in a buddy rendezvous formation with a KC-135 and
another B-47. Mission was uneventful until the accident aircraft had received
the 6, 000 lb briefed offload and backed off to observation position.      While
approaching for another practice contact, the pilot felt a sudden, hard jolt of
the aircraft and immediately experienced severe control difficulty. The pilot
immed­iately applied left rudder and aileron to counteract a roll to the right
and reduced all throttles to idle to effect breakaway. The copilot stated the
damage as loss of number six engine and severe damage to the wing out­board of
the engine. The aircraft was controllable, though the outboard portion of the
wing would bend up and back, causing occasional fish-tail vibrations.       After
about 10 minutes, the outboard 11 feet 4 inches of the wing broke off and the
aircraft became easier to handle. As soon as possible after the initial engine
explosion, a GCI site was contacted and an emergency declared. Under GCI
monitor the aircraft was descended below the overcast and headed for home
station. Before the time it established contact with the home base, the Wing
Command Post had established a conference call with the parent Air Force, SAC,
and Boeing. After arrival in the local area, approximately one hour and 40
minutes were spent in a slow series of checks to determine possible landing
configuration.      Finally, with gear and flaps down, the aircraft handled
well at best flare speed plus 10 knots and it was landed without further
incident. The landing was normal.
The
friendly A1C Strike Team Leader we were riding with that day had over ten years
time in grade, and this was considered fairly normal at the time.  We had a
real good time that shift.  It was good to be doing something, and we liked to
be able to cruise the base in the AF Blue pickup with white Air Police stripes,
and a fiberglass canopy on the back.  We picked up coffee at the mess hall,
delivered airmen to appointments, and relieved the “A” Strike Team and MMS
Patrol, while they refueled their vehicles.
A
Strike Team was comprised of six men.  There were two strike teams, one on
duty, the other comprised of selected members from the off-going flight, who
were standing by with their vehicle, usually in the barracks or mess hall.
The
on duty Strike Team was broken into two elements, each with a vehicle, Team
Leader, Radio Operator, and BAR Man.  At this time there was an excess of
rookie personnel, and it was not uncommon to have extra personnel riding along
to get a better idea of how the base was laid out.  The “A” strike team element
was assigned strictly to the alert area.  The “B” strike team covered the
remainder of the flight line.  The “B” strike team was in and out of CSC all
shift long.
While
the “A” strike team spent most of its time providing coffee breaks for walking
posts in the Alert Area, the “B” strike team was running errands and
transporting personnel.  “B” Team responded to inbound emergencies and the
majority of “7 High” business.
Both
teams had specific assigned duties when the klaxon went off.  “A” Team swept
the runway.  It was quite an experience to get the green light from the tower,
and swing out onto the runway and punch it, knowing that there would soon be
aircraft behind you.  Remember, this was happening in a vehicle that spent the
majority of time idling in the alert area.
But,
we were rookie Airmen third class and didn’t spend much time on strike teams.
The second patrol post I remember pulling was the MMS patrol.  This was
supposed to be sweet job, and I didn’t how I lucked out.
Since
it was a patrol, I didn’t bring my parka and flight pants.  Very soon after
guard mount, I had to relieve the guy that was on the MMS “walking” post, and
ended up spending the rest of the shift there.
When
the patrol dropped me off they said I should stay in the guard shack, as there
was a K-9 patrol in the area. This shack consisted of a very small sheet metal
building, about four feet square, with badly scratched fiberglass windows, and
a small propane heater.
I
was wearing sweats under my fatigues and fatigue jacket and nearly froze,
huddling over that heater.  Because of the scratches and ice frozen onto the Plexiglas
it was nearly impossible to see out.  I sat there waiting in suspense, until
the K-9 jumped up on the door, scaring the hell out of me.  The handler, who
thought this was terribly funny, was soon inside, sharing the heater.
The
very next night, I was assigned the MMS walking patrol.  This time I really
bundled up in preparation.  As soon as I got on post, the MMS patrol drove up
and let me into the cab.  It wasn’t long before the K-9 patrol came up and he
got into the cab too.     The patrol driver told me to listen for the radio and
he and the K-9 handler proceeded to sack out.
Sitting
in the middle, I silently roasted in my heavy clothing.  I unzipped the legs of
my flight pants, but that wasn’t enough, and finally, when the radio woke them
up, I asked if I could get out and take off my arctic gear.  The K-9 guard
opened the door and got out.  As I stepped out behind him, his dog came out of
the wheel well of the vehicle, where he had been keeping warm next to the
engine, and proceeded to do what attack dogs do.
The
dog ripped the leg of my fatigues, and had ideas of more damage before his
handler pulled him back.  Both the other airmen thought this was pretty funny;
my heart took several minutes to slow down.  Thank goodness I had worn those
rumpled grey fatigues under my arctic gear, and not my “good” army fatigues.
An
identical sheet metal shack was staked down at the taxiway access to the Alert
Area, at the end of the runway, right next to the run up pad.   Again, this was
supposed to be a walking post, but there were K-9 sentries and if you walked
more than a few feet from the shack you couldn’t hear the telephone.  But the
windows were so bad that you couldn’t see out if you stayed inside.  It was a
very lonely post.
One
night in a snow storm, I was sure I spotted someone standing in the field
nearby.  Thinking it might be a penetration attempt or the K-9 patrol screwing
with me, I challenged.  There was no response, he just stood there.  The
shadowy figure in the snowstorm was far enough away that I couldn’t quite make
it out.  I didn’t want to leave the area of the shack and we had a standoff
there until the sun came up and I could tell it was a radar reflector.
The
other story I remember about this post happened when I was posted elsewhere,
and one of my buddies was huddling over that little propane heater, when the
klaxon went off.  The first KC-135 out of the alert area had already increased
power before turning onto the runway.  The jet blast caught this little sheet
metal shack, with guard and propane heater inside and blew it quite a ways into
the nearby field, scattering pieces of the shack and propane bottles in the
process.  My buddy was shaken and bruised, and took a lot of ribbing about the
incident.
Back
in the barracks, the Texas Airman, of the SWAK letters had received another one
of those letters, this one notifying him of his impending fatherhood.  This was
the source of much amusement in the flight, and the first time I had seen the
condom on the doorknob routine.  It persisted for days, much to this Texan’s
embarrassment and our hilarity.
His
girlfriend soon arrived in Peru, they were married, and moved into a tiny
apartment.  When we were invited down there we could get an idea of what it
would be to live on an Airman Third Class Pay, with a wife and baby.
Also,
about this time, our barracks neighbor, Oop, came back from leave with a
possum, the first I had ever seen, and his little brother.  He kept the possum
around as a pet and it lived in an unused wall locker.  His little brother,
about 13, was outfitted with A3C fatigues, and lived in the barracks, ate in
the mess hall, and stayed with us for many weeks.  I’m sure he learned a lot
about the Air Force.
Anywhere
on base, even from in the barracks, especially at night in cold weather, you
could hear the sound of MD-3 ground power units running in the alert area.  The
memories of those cold, crisp nights, with the smell of JP-4 exhaust mingled
with that mess hall odor, still remain.
Area
5 was the non-alert aircraft parking area.  Here B-47 and KC-135 aircraft were
parked in rows; wingtip-to-wingtip, while maintenance and other activity was
going on.
At
night, it was not uncommon for the area to be completely deserted, all dark
aircraft sitting in rows, except for one or two aircraft that were a beehive of
activity and had many vehicles, flashing lights and equipment clustered around.
The
Aircraft parking spots were identified by a grid, with letters one way, and
numbers the other.  For example, Juliet-Three, or Delta-Two identified specific
parking positions.
One
midnight shift I walked out from CSC to relieve the sentry for a break.  It was
dead quiet as I was walking his post behind a row of B-47’s.  As I walked I
heard a creaking noise.  When I stopped to listen, the noise stopped.  Then I
noticed that the tail guns on the nearest B-47 were pointed directly at me.  I
took a few steps and there was that creak again, and those guns were still
pointed right at me.
I
took off my carbine and laid it down on the ramp and tried walking away again.
No creak and the guns didn’t more.  It was just starting to get light, when I
noticed someone running between the aircraft a row over.
I
retrieved my carbine and moved into a position between the rows of aircraft,
lay down and waited for the intruder to run across the row so that I would have
a clean shot without any aircraft behind.  As soon as he cleared the row, I
blew my whistle, and he kept on running.  Repeated blasts on the whistle and he
was still running.
I
could have shot the dumb ass that thought he was going to sneak up behind me
coming back to take his post.  Seemingly unconcerned, he didn’t realize how
close I had been to putting a round into him.  I wanted to know why he didn’t
stop when he was caught and I blew my whistle.
I’ve
included an
airport diagram
in appendix “B”.  You
can still see the outline of the Christmas tree alert areas.  They are
indicated “closed to military aircraft” now.  The general flight line looks
pretty much the same as I remember it.  The fire department and security (CSC)
seem to be in the same places.  The tower now seems to be located where there
used to be a bunker for test firing of aircraft guns.  The MMS area is now the
Miami County Correctional Facility.
The
319th Fighter Interceptor
Squadron
had their own Alert and non alert parking areas for their Convair
“Delta Dart”
F-106 s, on the
north end of the ramp.  SAC provided a walking sentry for the non-alert area.
I remember walking this post on a bright cold day shift.  In plain sight of the
tower and everyone else, it was too cold to stand still.  The Air Defense
Command (ADC), parked their aircraft on an angle, as opposed to the SAC way.
Kicking
chunks of ice into other was the only entertainment when you had a post where
you couldn’t hide.  One thing we did was a game called “ducks”, and it was
vaguely similar to curling.
The
F-106s didn’t provide very good shelter from the wind, I can see how SAC ended
up with the post.  They were pretty cool aircraft, though, and had the squadron
insignia painted on the tail.
Watching
the “Sixes” taking off in pairs with afterburners blazing was superb
entertainment.
319th
FIS Air Police staffed the Alert F-106s and the ADC side of the MMS area.  They
didn’t attend our guard mount, having their own informal meeting.
Base
Operations and the tower was on the corner of the building where it is now
designated civilian parking area, and was transient parking, back in the day.
This is center of the ramp, where base operations and transient aircraft
parking area were located.  Aircraft commonly seen in this area included;
T-33 ,
C-47 ,
C-54 ,
C-119 ,
C-124 , and an occasional
B-57
or
RB-66 .  The Base Aero Club had a
few ships here, too.
Across
the end of Runway 23, was the Alert Area.  Two “ Christmas
tree ” type hardstand areas were separated by the alert facility, which was
mostly underground.  The “mole hole” had an award winning dining facility, with
a genuine “Duncan Hines Approved” sign.  One of the benefits of working swing
or day shift in the alert area was eating here.  It was excellent chow.
30
March 1961, we received orders certifying our completion of “three-oh”
training.  We began to be assigned as close-in aircraft sentry.  Alert aircraft
guards were required to memorize at least the Aircraft Commander names and tail
numbers of their aircraft from the SAC Form 380s, which were passed from sentry
to sentry, along with the SOPs for that post.  With KC-135’s, one sentry could
be responsible for up to three alert aircraft.  With this many aircraft it was
impossible to challenge all the responding crews when the klaxon went off.
The
challenge procedure consisted of the code of the day question and response.
Normally, the guard would prompt with 10, and the crew would respond with the
remainder to add up the code for the day.  There was also another code to
indicate duress.
When
the klaxon went off for an alert, the crews would come running out of the mole
hole to their aircraft.  A quiet night could erupt into a massive turmoil in
just a few seconds.  All the guard could do was try to get between the crews
and their aircraft and attempt to get the code as they went by.  It would not
have been advisable to get in the way of either air or ground crews rushing to
get engines started.
Any
time aircraft were running engines it was dangerous to be too close.
Especially during alert operations in freezing weather, the jet blast would
throw chunks of ice a considerable distance.  Nobody was worrying about where
the sentries were, it was up to you to get safe. Sometimes this was easier said
than done.
Between
alerts, and simulated exercises, we were kept busy by our Flight Commander.  He
occasionally brought the Duty Officer with him, checking posts.  We had a very
new Second Lieutenant in the CDS Squadron and he was often assigned this duty.
2Lts were called “jeeps” and this fellow didn’t look much older than me.
Some
times they would make you challenge the vehicle, but usually, they didn’t want
to get out in the bad weather, and after recognizing them, the sentry
approached the vehicle on the passenger’s side and reported to the jeep.  It
was just a little different than at basic training.  “A3C Dipshit, reporting
Post number 4, all secure sir.”  Saluting with a carbine was a little different
too, if you didn’t grab the strap, it could fly off your shoulder and smack
into the vehicle.  Word was around that our jeep hated this and it continued to
happen rather frequently.
Each
aircraft hardstand had a telephone, with a red light above that illuminated
when it rang.  A list of these phone numbers was a good thing to have.  When
the gate 10 guard called the alert area access point to let them know the duty
officer had just come through, the access controller would ring one of these
phones at nights, to flash the light and warn the sentries.  Some access
controllers flashed the lights at the gate area, also.
If
the flight commander and duty officer tried to sneak into the alert area across
the runway, the taxiway guard would get on the phone to the access controller.
Generally, the whereabouts of the duty officer and flight commander were well
kept track of.
KC-135s
were much nicer aircraft to guard during cold weather.  When temperatures
dropped below the freezing point, crew chiefs would be around the aircraft
regularly to heat the demineralized water that was onboard to be injected into
the jet engines during takeoff.
MD-3
power units that contained a light aircraft engine, would be running, exhausts
barking, and sparks flying.  The row of green lights on the instrument panel
would be glowing brightly when all was running properly.
Ground
heaters might be running, too, to heat the interior of the aircraft.  Those
ground heaters were tricky.  Once started, you couldn’t just shut them down.
The engine needed to continue running until the heating chamber was clear of
fumes.  If you didn’t know what you were doing and just shut it down when you
heard the duty officer was coming, it could just blow up on you.
One
of our “B” Flight clowns had a reputation for screwing off.   One cold night,
after a hard day in ‘Naptown, he leaned his carbine against a Coleman tug in
the alert area, crawled inside, and, pulling up his parka hood, and proceeded
to sack out.
The
Alert Area Supervisor, himself a bit of a clown, came by and saw this.  There
was a ground heater running nearby.  He moved the heater duct to melt a snow
bank; gently put the carbine in the resultant puddle, replaced the heater duct,
and drove off.
As
dawn lit up the day, this sentry waited until he saw the posting truck pull up
to the access point before crawling down.  He then started looking for his weapon.
When he found it, it was frozen solid in a puddle that was now ice.
As
the posting truck started around the area, he was frantically kicking at this
ice.  This is not a very effective technique when wearing mukluks.  This was
all to the great amusement of the rest of the guards in the alert area until it
became obvious that he wasn’t going to make it in time.
One
of the worst things you could do was to not be ready when the posting truck
arrived, as you were holding up the entire relief.  There would be a whole
bunch of guys on your back if you couldn’t find your SOPs or SAC Form 380’s to
turn over to the oncoming guard.  They had been waiting all shift to get off
work and had things to do.
We
watched and fumed as they tried to chip that carbine out of the ice.  We were
still pissed off at him when the wayward airman turned up in the barracks, very
late, after cleaning his weapon and explaining to the Flight Commander.
There
were often interesting conversations in the posting truck.  One night, there
was a contest to see who could come up with the most names for the female
genitalia.  This sheltered young troop from the Pacific Northwest had no idea
how many names there are for this item.
On
the flight that relieved us, there was an A1C who many times drove the alert
area posting truck.  He would stop the truck at gate ten and refuse to proceed
unless we sang the Mickey Mouse song.  So the posting vehicle would proceed
through the base and into the parking lot at CSC with a chorus of airmen singing
“M I C…  See you real soon.  K E Y…  Why?  Because we like you. M O U S E”.
Because
the B-58’s were behind schedule there was an abundance of manpower.  Our flight
had a barber, and on midnight shift, personnel were relieved from post and
transported to the MMS Access Control Building, where he had a chair set up for
haircuts.  Our flight commander also took advantage of this, using the MMS
training room to try and see if his pointy headed A3C dipshits were learning
anything.
With
the coming of spring, it was necessary to be sharp.  Arctic gear would no
longer hide wrinkled fatigues.  My investment in the tanker jacket and other
gear would begin to pay off.  Getting ready to go to work was a bit of work
itself.  Uniforms needed to be ironed.  Boots shined to a high gloss, and
bloused just so.  If we were assigned to a post requiring a class “A” uniform
it was necessary to bleach clean a white cap cover, scarf, gloves and boot
laces.  To look sharp it was necessary to “break starch” every day.
To
get off the ramp the flight line gate posts were the next step.  You got your
own guard shack with two phones, a heater, table, chair, and electricity to
plug in your radio.  This was better than humping the ramp in bad weather.  On
the other hand, it certainly got you noticed.  Getting caught sitting down in a
gate shack was a sure way to end up back on a perimeter post.
Two
flight line gates at Bunker Hill AFB required Class A uniforms; Gate 1, into
the Wing Command area, and Gate 5 into CSC, and the flight line.  The older
troops didn’t like getting dressed up, so the Class A gates were open to us
rookies.
The
other flight line gates, Gate 2, into the flying squadron areas, was only open
during rush hours, Gate 7, into the 319th FIS area and Gate 10, into the Alert
and MMS areas all were fatigue posts.  But only the sharpest airmen were
assigned to them.  Typically, you had to do your time on Gate 5 and 1, first,
not only because they were the class A uniform, but had the most traffic.
At
any time of year, the lights of any of these gate shacks attracted bugs.  In
springtime giant moths and hordes of June Bugs would swarm around.  Our flight
drinking champion got into trouble for using his .45 on one of those moths that
had landed on the wall inside the Gate 10 shack.  The June Bugs were so thick
that they would crunch underfoot when walking out to check through a vehicle.
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Phyllophaga_%28genus%29
12 April 1961
Vostok 1 :
Soviet cosmonaut
Yuri Gagarin
becomes the first human in space.
17 April 1961
The
Bay of Pigs Invasion
of
Cuba
begins; it fails
by
April 19 .
Declassified
after action report, “Operation Pluto”.
http://www.gwu.edu/~nsarchiv/NSAEBB/NSAEBB29/04-01.htm
National
Security Archive, “The Nuclear Vault”
http://www.gwu.edu/~nsarchiv/nukevault/index.htm
18
April 1961 the last B-47 departed Bunker Hill.
Our
Flight Commander, TSgt Evans, had a spring barbecue in the backyard of his home
in Peru.  The whole flight was invited.  Somehow I had managed a double date
with a fellow driving a rambler.  It was terrific car, the whole inside made
into a bed.
It
was a real nice spring evening, and even our “Squadron Mother”, Lucille, showed
up.  As the party got rolling, a chug a lug, beer drinking contest developed.
We rookies were dropped in the first rounds, and finally it came down to our
flight champion and Lucille.
In
a best of three, he beat her the first time, and she claimed that her blouse
had slowed her down in tipping the can.  She stripped to a formidable
brassiere, and beat him two in a row, to cheering and applause from the rest of
the flight.  He claimed distraction, but was jeered down.
In
the barracks it was common for a group to gather in one room for the playing of
records.  Now, of course, we had all done this in high school, but this was my
first introduction to “party records”.  These were supposedly risqué at the
time.  “Knockers Up”, by Rusty Warren was one, and Red Foxx had several.  It
was shocking to hear everyday language on records.
One
of the popular albums in the barracks was Oscar Brand’s Air Force songs.  The
cover had a picture of him, floating down under a parachute.  He was drinking
champagne and smoking a cigarette in a long holder.
Still available, click for
Amazon
11
May 1961 the
first B-58
arrived at Bunker Hill, I was assigned
to Flight Line Gate 5 on day shift.
We
were aware of this event, because there was some ceremony planned.  So, when
the low altitude, high speed pass happened, there was no surprise, we were all
anxious to see our first B-58.  But, then it came around again, slower, and
didn’t land, then the hot line from CSC rang, with the news that we had a B-58
declaring an in-flight emergency, the landing gear would not deploy.
Soon,
a KC-135 was launched to refuel the B-58.  Our first B-58 continued to fly around
and around.  Finally, after several hours, the aircraft, landed safely.
The
“B” Strike Team that escorted the aircraft reported that Lt. Col. Trevisani,
was the pilot and the first thing he had done after getting out of the aircraft
was to pitch a fit, cursing and kicking the tires and landing gear.
Col.
Trevisani had a reputation with the Air Police, as he liked to drive his
Private vehicle, (POV) right to his aircraft on the flight line.  He was also
known to be more than a little testy at times, and had lit into rookie air cops
before.
Kicking
the tires, this sounded like the Col. Trevisani we knew.  We also learned that
those tires were replaced after every flight on the new B-58’s, and there was a
lot of those little tires on each aircraft.
Now,
Bunker Hill was officially the fastest Air Force Base in the World.  It wasn’t
long before matchbooks from the Officers Club were circulating on base that
certified to this fact.  “These matches have been flown at Mach 2 in a B-58
Hustler from Bunker Hill AFB, the fastest AFB in the world.”  They were great
conversation starters with the ladies, and really impressed my buddies at home
too.
24 May 1961
American civil rights movement :
Freedom
Riders
are arrested in
Jackson, Mississippi
for "disturbing the
peace" after disembarking from their bus.
26
May 1961, A B-58 from the 43rd Bomb Wing at Carswell AFB flew non-stop from
Carswell to Paris to celebrate the 34th Anniversary of Lindbergh’s crossing.
2
June 1961
President John
F. Kennedy visits the Supreme Headquarters of the Allied Powers in Europe
(SHAPE) during a stop in Paris highlighted by talks with French President
Charles de Gaulle. Kennedy was on his way to Vienna for a summit meeting with
Soviet Premier Nikita Khrushchev.
***missing
stars & stripes photo
3
June 1961, The B-58 from the 43rd BW crashed after takeoff during the Paris Air
show, killing the crew.
25
June 1961
Iraqi
president
Abdul Karim Kassem
announces he is going to
annex
Kuwait .
27 June 1961
Kuwait requests British help; the
United
Kingdom
sends in troops.
14
July 1961, I applied for leave.  Do you remember what the high tech USAF leave
card looked like?
18
July 1960 I headed for home in Spokane.  This time, taking the
Wabash Cannonball
out
of Peru, it took all night to go the 25 miles to Logansport, due to a
derailment.  We crawled slowly along an unused line, rocking and rolling, with
branches scraping the sides of the cars.
Finally
arriving in Logansport, I caught the
Pennsylvania Railroad
to Chicago, and the
Empire
Builder
to Spokane.  I did the entire military police correspondence course
while sitting in the dome car.
At
home, my folks offered to upgrade me to fly as far as Chicago to allow me to
stay a couple more days.  So I did that, again flying on Northwest Air Lines
DC-6.  Flying was still luxurious compared to today.  Northwest Orient Airlines
had “Imperial Service”.  This tag is still hanging on my AWOL bag.
From
Spokane, it was one stop in Great Falls, then Minneapolis/St. Paul, then Chicago.  From Chicago, I took the bus to Peru, rather than wait for the train, even
though I had a ticket.
***The
unused portion of that ticket on the “Wabash Cannonball” is around here
someplace, I’ll include it here when it turns up.
What
did I do on leave?  Went to the lake.  Made the rounds.  I don’t have a clue.
Back
at work, I had an interesting dilemma, one day, while posted as a perimeter
guard during a “Broken Arrow” simulation; I noticed a
C-119 , Flying
Boxcar coming down the taxiway toward my post.  We had no means of
communication, and it wasn’t too long before I was faced with the choice of
what to do.
I
came to port arms and tried to stand my ground, but they just kept coming.  I
thought of pointing my carbine at them, but the rule was don’t point at
anything you don’t intend to shoot.  Waving my arms and indicating stop had no
effect.  Eventually, I gave way, and they went taxiing on past, right into the
simulated nuclear accident area.  I was expecting to get reamed out good over
this, but nobody ever said anything to me about it, and I thought it best not
to ask what I should have done.
19
August 1961
Vice
President
Lyndon B. Johnson
waves from his limousine after arriving in West Berlin in the wake of the
construction of the
Berlin Wall .
Johnson was accompanied by
Gen. Lucius Clay ,
President Kennedy's special advisor; the next day, they greeted a column of
nearly 500 vehicles and trailers from the
1st Battle Group, 18th Infantry , sent
in from West Germany to shore up West Berlin's defense.
^^^missing
stars & stripes photo
7
September 1961 Sfc. Martin Joyce, left, of Company D., 2nd Battle Group, holds
the Army's new M14 rifle as group commanding officer Col. John M. Deane,
center, talks with
Tonight Show
host Jack Paar during filming in Berlin. Paar's high-profile visit, only a few days after the Berlin Wall was put in place,
stirred controversy back home.
^^^missing
stars and stripes photo and story
It
was to be a while before the B-58s were ready to stand alert and we still had
an excess of CDS personnel, so it was inevitable that SAC would find something
for us to do.
19
September 1961, the first
grey
alien was reported, and ten of us received
TDY
orders.  We
were going to the 815th Combat Support Group,
Forbes AFB , Topeka, Kansas for sixty days.  We were issued mobility bags and told to pack our gear.
23
September 1961 we loaded aboard the base
C-47
and flew directly to Forbes
AFB to experience the land of Kansas first hand.
Recollections of a Combat Defense Squadron
“Ramp Rat”
Chapter 2
Appe ndix “A”
Memory Work
Chain of Command
November 18, 1960
President,
Dwight D. Eisenhower
Secretary
of Defense, Thomas S. Gates
AF
Chief of Staff, Thomas D. White
Vice
Chief of Staff, Gen. Curtis E. Lemay
Commander
Strategic Air Command, Gen. Thomas Power
2nd
AF Commander, Lt. Gen. John D. Ryan
Current
305th Bomb Wing Commander, Col. Frank O’Brien
305th
Combat Support Group Commander, Col. Vincent Crane
305th
CDS Squadron Commander, Capt. Robert H. Brooks
305th
CDS First Sergent, ?
305th
CDS Operations Officer, Capt. Billy J. Mitchell
305th
CDS Operations, NCOIC MSgt. Bobby W. Bulls
305th
CDS ”B” Flight Commander TSgt. Carl F. Evans
Seven
High - A message dispatched to SAC Headquarters whenever an event occurs which
could adversely effect the capability to launch the strike force, and which
cannot clearly and immediately be ruled out as possible sabotage or enemy
action.
Redskin
- A message transmitted to SAC Headquarters indicating that in incident or
series of incidents has occurred within a Category I or II area which threatens
essential elements of the strike force and the capability and readiness to
launch the force.  Additionally, this incident has been evaluated and confirmed
as an act of Sabotage or Covert Action.
Broken
Arrow
- Any incident or
accident involving a nuclear weapon.
SAC
Two Man Policy - A policy pertaining to nuclear weapon handling procedures that
requires not less than two authorized persons to be with any assembled nuclear
weapon, or any major component, at all times, when it is not secured in a
locked storage structure.
Recollections of a Combat Defense Squadron
“Ramp Rat”
Chapter 2
Appen dix “B”
References
“A
Cold War Legacy”, 1999, Pictorial Histories Publishing Company, Inc., by Alwyn
T. Lloyd, pp337-38, for 20 Mar 61 B-47 incident.
Synopsis
At
1556 CST, three B-47’s and a KC-135 were launched from Bunker Hill AFB, on a
training mission.  Rendezvous with the tanker was completed and the first B-47
accomplished a hook up and took on a token fuel load.  The second B-47 moved
into position, made a normal hook up and took on 6,000 lbs of fuel.  After a
planned disconnect and second contact at 1636 CST, the B-47 pilot felt a heavy
jolt from the right wing, followed by severe vibration.  The KC-135 boom
operator reported an apparent explosion and departure of the No. 6 engine from
the receiver aircraft.  The pilot of the B-47 saw the engine and debris leave
the aircraft.  An immediate breakaway was executed, and while severe vibration
was present, the aircraft remained under control.  Ten minutes later, a 11’4”
section of wing outboard of the No. 6 engine position also departed the
aircraft.  Some hydraulic control was also lost.  The aircraft descended to
10,000’ under Visual Flight Rules and returned to Bunker Hill AFB.  The
approach chute was not used, due to cross winds and engine power limitations.
The aircraft landed without incident at 1910 CST.  Subsequent investigation
revealed a chunk type failure of the No.6 engine turbine wheel.
http://www.globalsecurity.org/wmd/systems/b-58-fc.htm
Detail
on the B-58 program, which was being cut back, even as we were first assigned.
59-2461 64 B-58A n/a
Initially assigned to 43rd BW; on 5/11/61 became first B-58 assigned to 305th
BW, Bunker Hill AFB, IN.; later temporarily painted to look like The Firefly
(59-2451) for a film; arrived at MASDC 1/14/70 and scrapped 8/19/77.
Table
of US Strategic Bomber Forces
http://www.nrdc.org/nuclear/nudb/datab7.asp
Aircraft
assignments 319th Fighter Interceptor Squadron
http://www.convairf-106deltadart.com/319thAssignmentPage.html
Bunker
Hill AFB History
http://www.strategic-air-command.com/bases/Bunker_Hill_AFB.htm
Service
of B-58 Hustler with USAF
http://home.att.net/~jbaugher2/b58_4.html
Wikipedia
3973CDS
Novel
that was basis for the movie “Dr Strangelove”
“Red
Alert”, by Peter George(Peter Bryant). 1958
Blackmask
Com, edition 2005, Disruptive Publishing
Bunker Hill AFB (Now Grissom AFB)
Airport
Diagram
Appen dix “C”
Air Force Terminology
A/C
Aircraft
AC
Aircraft Commander
Bomb/Nav
Bombadier/Navigator
Boom
Operator
Combat
Defense Squadron
Combat
Defense Force
Combat
Defense Team
“A” Strike Team
Reserve Strike Team
Various Patrols
DSO
Defense Systems Operator
FUD
- Fear, Uncertainty and Doubt, program commercialized by IBM - International
Business Machines.
FOD
- Foreign Object Disposal  A program designed to reduce the amount of debris
sucked into jet engines.  The posters said, “I’m a FOD picker, are you?”  There
were buttons too, but they became a FOD problem
MMS
- Munitions Maintenance Squadron
Snow
Snakes - white, slippery eel type creatures that would cimb up a sentry’s pant
leg, searching for warmth.  They had been known to slither right up the
asshole, if they weren’t caught in time.
OMS
- Organization Maintenance Squadron
FMS
- Field Maintenance Squadron
A&E
- Armament and Electronics
SOP
- Standard Operating Procedure
SWAK
- Sealed with a kiss and sometimes more
SNAFU
- Situation Normal, All F***** Up