US bombers to train in Australia - Wikinews, the free news source
US bombers to train in Australia
From Wikinews, the free news source you can write!
Jump to:					 navigation , 					 search
Saturday, November 19, 2005
In a joint agreement by
Australia
and the
United States , the U.S. Air Force will begin regular strategic bomber aircraft training in the
Northern Territory
early next year. At the recent high-level
AUSMIN
talks between the U.S. and Australia it was announced that the strategic bomber training program would involve
B-52
and
B-1
bombers and the
B-2 stealth aircraft .
Under the new arrangements aircraft would fly direct from the United States for bombing operations at the Delamere Air Weapons Range situated about 130km south-west of
Katherine
in the Northern Territory. Delamere is a 211,000ha bombing range used regularly by the
Royal Australian Air Force (RAAF)
for dropping live weapons. The
Darwin RAAF base
would also be available for the bombers to land and refuel if necessary. The planes will fly to the Northern Territory from the U.S. Pacific Island base of
Guam .
A B-52 Stratofortress drops live ordnance over Nevada on May 12 2005 during an Air Force firepower demo - (U.S. Air Force photo by Senior Airman Brian Ferguson)
Support
Defence Minister Robert Hill
says Australia is helping in the rebalancing of America's military forces in Asia. Senator Hill said strategic bomber training had been conducted some time ago and that the U.S. had now asked Australia whether it could be resumed.
"We have said we are happy to assist," Senator Hill told reporters. Mr Hill said some of the aircraft may not even touch down in Australia, while others will land at the Darwin RAAF base.
The bombers will fly from the major US base on the Pacific island of
Guam . "It may be aircraft that come down to Australia from a considerable distance and use our bombing ranges and then return without landing," he said. "There will also be occasions when the aircraft will land and utilise facilities at Darwin. We think it's just another example in which we can be helpful to our ally".
Labor's opposition defence spokesman,
Robert McClelland , also supports the program. "It's very important to our long-term security that we support the United States alliance as a partner - not being dictated to in anyway - but as a partner," he said. "It is quite reasonable we provide a significant resource we have in Australia, which is open space, to develop the technologies and the skills."
Concerns
But the
Australian Greens
are outraged by the project, saying there has been no consultation in the Territory. "The Australian Government more and more is allowing the Americans to view this country as the 51st state,"
Greens leader Senator Bob Brown
said.
The mayor of Katherine, Anne Shepherd, also has serious concerns about the plan. "I know of the other accidents that have happened there when the Americans were training," Ms Shepherd said.
In August this year, A U.S. Marine Corps fighter jet dropped a bomb and damaged a building in an accident. The bomb, dropped by an
F/A-18 Hornet , exploded near a control tower and damaged facilities at Delamere Air Weapons Range - attached to the RAAF Base Tindal near Katherine.
At the time,
Prime Minister John Howard
said: "Things like this will always happen; we hope not very frequently and we hope not any more dangerously," he told Melbourne Radio 3AW in August. "But the idea that you can conduct any kind of military exercise without some kind of potential for mishap is unrealistic."
Ms Shepherd is also worried about the possible use of
depleted uranium . "I know that they use the depleted uranium on the warheads for added penetration ... and the weapons can penetrate much more easily with the depleted uranium and I'd be quite concerned if they use those kind of weapons," she said.
The Northern Territory Environment Center says it is disgusted by the announcement. Co-ordinator Peter Robertson is alarmed about the location of the training. "Only a matter of 100 kilometres or so from one of the proposed
nuclear waste
dump sites near Katherine, and it would be extraordinarily alarming and ironic if an American B-52 bomber dropped a live bomb on top of the Commonwealth's nuclear waste dump," he said.
Concerns have also been raised about the environmental impact of the training program. Australia and the United States have agreed to work towards world's best practice in environmental management for the combined military activities.
But Mr Robertson says world's best practice is simply to stop doing it. "Not to do it in a way that puts at risk communities, the environment... I mean the notion that there are clean green bombs that can be rained down on the Northern Territory, or any other part of the world, is an absolute nonsense," he said.
Sources
Max Blenkin. " US bombers to target NT " —  The Australian , November 19, 2005
" Three arrests after Rumsfeld protests " —  The Age , November 18, 2005
" B-52s to target Aust bombing ranges " —  Australian Broadcasting Corporation , November 18, 2005
Phillip Coorey. " U.S. to step up use of NT base " —  Advertiser Newspapers , November 19, 2005
" RANGE INCIDENT – DELAMERE AIR WEAPONS RANGE " —  Department of Defence , August 11, 2005
" U.S. Jet Damages Australian Building on Military Range " —  Foxnews , August 12, 2005
" US Air Force training plan concerns Katherine mayor " —  Australian Broadcasting Corporation , November 19, 2005
Share this:
This page is
archived , and is no longer publicly editable.
Articles presented on Wikinews reflect the specific time at which they were written and published, and do not attempt to encompass events or knowledge which occur or become known after their publication.
Got a correction? Add the template {{ editprotected }} to the
talk page
along with your corrections, and it will be
brought to the attention of
the
administrators .
Please note that due to our
archival policy , we will not alter or update the content of articles that are archived, but will only accept requests to make grammatical and formatting corrections.
Note that some listed sources or external links may no longer be available online due to age.
Retrieved from " https://en.wikinews.org/w/index.php?title=US_bombers_to_train_in_Australia&oldid=3792524 "
Categories :
November 19, 2005 Published Archived Australia Oceania Environment Politics and conflicts Nuclear proliferation United States Northern Territory, Australia Nuclear waste and reprocessing
Navigation menu
Personal tools
Create account Log in
Namespaces
Article
Collaboration
Variants
Views
Read
View source
View history
More
Search
Navigation
Main page Newsroom Recent changes Random article Archives Free use media upload
Wikinews
Help Pillars of writing Write an article Water cooler Style guide Live chat Donate Contact us
Regions
Africa Asia Central America Europe Middle East North America Oceania South America
In other languages
Add links
Print/export
Create a book Download as PDF Printable version
Tools
What links here Related changes Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page
This page was last modified on 3 September 2015, at 17:49.
All text created after September 25, 2005 available under the terms of the
Creative Commons Attribution 2.5
License, unless otherwise specified.
Contributions must be attributed to
Wikinews ; see
Terms of use
for details. Copyright on images may vary, please check individual image pages prior to duplication.
By using this site, you agree to the
Terms of Use
and
Privacy Policy. Wikinews ®, and the
Wikinews
logo are registered trademarks of the
Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. Wikinews
is not responsible for the content of external sites.
Privacy policy
About Wikinews
Disclaimers
Developers
Mobile view