Trends, Travel, History and Books
|
beenetworknews
Home
About Us
World Perspective
BeeNetwork FirstLook
Privacy Policy
Subscribe:
Posts
|
Comments
beenetworknews
Business, Education and Entertainment News
Business
Business / Career
Education
Entertainment
Feature
Government
Health
Opinion
Politics
Trends
Trends, Travel, History and Books
August 16, 2012
Trends
International
Sun , Sand &
Speedboats ! Celebrate The Golden Anniversary Of  James Bond
Source:  Cision
Calling all aspiring James Bonds and
Bond girls : to celebrate 50 years since  Ursula Andress  sauntered out of the tropical sea
in that white bikini,  Olhuveli Beach & Spa Resort  in the
Maldives
has marked the golden anniversary of the iconic film franchise with some exclusive, 007-inspired activities.  What’s more, actress
Naomie Harris , who played
Miss Moneypenny
in the soon-to-be-released Skyfall stayed at Olhuveli after filming, so it’s certainly got the James Bond seal of approval!
Olhuveli Beach & Spa Resort offers a vista of stunning beaches, abundant sandbanks and cloudless blue skies, providing all the credentials of a Bond film set – it’s even accessed by speedboat!   Whether guests fancy a romantic tryst in the sugar-white sand or a cool
Martini cocktail
as the sun sets over the ocean, the resort has everything a secret agent would wish for. In addition, it offers a host of thrill-seeking activities, including shark safaris, scuba diving and kite surfing.
In fact, the only extravagance James Bond himself would miss on this gorgeous piece of paradise is a fast car!  Almost half a century after the first
James Bond film , why not book a trip at this luxury beach resort to experience the James Bond lifestyle, and enjoy the following:
An exhilarating speedboat transfer to and from Malé for all guests
An exclusive, limited-edition  Miss Moneypenny cocktail   – ‘Licence To Chill’ , consisting of watermelon juice, Limoncello and Champagne
Push a snorkelling excursion one stroke further with an exhilarating shark safari in the deep waters off the island – if you dare! Special Bond girl inspired spa treatments in the resort’s Sun Spa such as:
A Royal Javanese Lulur body scrub – infused with turmeric it leaves the skin with a sun-kissed golden glow
A   Goldfinger  Sun manicure for ultra glossy nails
Learn the art of massage with a choice of couples’ massages – for that ubiquitous Bond love scene!
Thomson  is offering seven nights all-inclusive at  Olhuveli Beach & Spa Resort
from  £1,628   per person (saving up to £287 per person) , based on two adults sharing.   Available for selected departures in October, the price includes return flights from Gatwick, accommodation in a deluxe room overlooking the beach, speedboat transfers, taxes and surcharges. The resort offers two pools, an award-winning beach and huge lagoon, a choice of restaurants and bars, a luxury spa, five-star PADI dive centre, lots of watersports activities and one of the only registered kite-surfing schools in the Maldives.
Skyfall , the 23rd instalment of the Bond series, opens in October.
THE OLD PALACE HOTEL
WELCOMES NEW
HEAD CHEF
Source:  Cision
Bespoke menus tailor-made for any occasion and exciting people with food – that is the vision of Paul Newton, newly appointed Head Chef at
The Old Palace
hotel in Lincoln.
Paul, 42, has brought with him 24 years of experience in the culinary world, 16 of which he has spent working as a head chef. He believes starting from grass roots to develop menus and interacting more with guests will help him deliver the wow factor.
He explained: “Unlike most chefs who spend all their time in the kitchen, I am keen to get more involved with customers by sitting down with them to discuss their requirements and create unique menus, offering different options to give clients something special.”
Before taking up the position at The Old Palace hotel in May, Paul was Head Chef at the White Hart Hotel in the Bailgate for five years, and more recently at The Lawn where he was Head Chef for four years.  He has been cooked for a number of celebrities including
Tom Hanks ,
Sir Ian McKellen , Ron Howard and Princess Anne and he describes his food as classical but with a modern twist.
Originally from Matlock in Derbyshire, Paul went straight from school to catering college where he gained his City and Guilds 7061, City and Guilds 705 and Advanced Food Hygiene qualifications. He then completed an apprenticeship in Basingstoke before moving to Lincoln 13 years ago.
Speaking of his new job, he said: “Work here is very varied and there is a wonderful atmosphere and good teamwork.   It’s on a smaller scale than what I was doing before when I was cooking for up to 400 people but at The Old Palace I can focus more on detail and technique as opposed to cooking on a mass scale.”
As well as creating new function and room service menus, Paul aims to put an emphasis on ingredients by using local suppliers and by being sympathetic to the taste and textures of produce.  He added: “The veg suppliers in Lincolnshire are brilliant. We use Fresh from the Fields’ produce and work with the seasons to ensure that our guests enjoy the food we serve when it’s at its best in terms of quality and flavor.
“All our suppliers are from the Lincolnshire area. We use locally reared meat from Fosters Butchers on Monks Road in Lincoln and cheeses such as Lincolnshire Poacher, Cote Hill Blue and Dambusters.  We also support fair trade produce by using Fair Trade teas and have our own blend Fair Trade coffee.”
Paul is currently training the existing staff but is looking to expand the team in the next 12 months.   The Old Palace  was built next to the site of the Lincoln Medieval Bishops’ Palace, which was the administrative centre of the largest diocese in medieval England, in three phases between 1720 and 1885.  Once home to the Bishop of Lincoln, The Old Palace is now a luxury hotel and conference centre offering 32 beautifully decorated rooms in the main building and in the adjacent Old Palace Lodge – a former Victorian church that has been newly converted  The ruins of the Medieval Bishops’ Palace are separate from The Old Palace itself and are managed by English Heritage.
Countryside captured with creative eye at the
River & Rowing Museum
in new exhibition
A new exhibition at the River & Rowing Museum captures Oxfordshire landscapes with a unique, vibrant expression that reflects the variety and beauty of the rolling countryside. From the Uffington White Horse to the famous hills of Wittenham Clumps; the Rollright Stones and Blewburton Hill, Oxfordshire, steeped in ancient history, is illustrated here through born-and-bred local artist Anna Dillon’s captivating landscapes.
The exhibition links with  John Piper – The Gyselynck Collection  in the Treasures Gallery at the
River & Rowing Museum
(Until 8 October) as Piper has been an inspiration to Dillon and similarities can be drawn between the two artists’ response to the British landscape.  Anna Dillon has been passionate about the English countryside all her life. As a painter she has developed a unique style, using strong and bold color to reflect the contours and the light of the land in an abstract manner. She paints primarily in oil and is influenced by many painters of the 20th century including John and Paul Nash, John Piper, Peter Lanyon and Graham Sutherland.
Her bold approach to landscape painting can also be likened to David Hockney’s abstract iPad landscapes recently exhibited at the Royal Academy. She is a member of Oxford Arts Society and an area coordinator of Oxford Artweeks.
Dillon trained as an illustrator at Falmouth School of Art in Cornwall and then worked as a graphic designer for 16 years in London and the Middle East before painting professionally.Suzie Tilbury, Curator of the Exhibition, said:
“Anna Dillon is an extremely talented contemporary landscape artist and her unique style captures the Oxfordshire Landscape with a bold finesse that evokes a wonderful pride in our surroundings. We are delighted to have the pleasure of exhibiting such fine contemporary work at the River & Rowing Museum”
Born in Wallingford (1972) Dillon has lived in the village of Aston Tirrold in South Oxfordshire for much of her life. Anna’s grandfather, Michael Page (1916-2012), was a Cambridge rower. His enthusiasm for the sport inspired Anna to exhibit at the River & Rowing Museum.
The River & Rowing Museum is one of the UK’s leading regional and sporting Museums, attracting over 116,000 visitors a year. The Museum, an independent charity, also has a purpose built education centre visited by over 20,000 children and adults a year. The Museum provides superb value for money – tickets are £8 for adults and £6 for children and provide   free return access for a year.
Designed by David Chipperfield and located on the banks of the River Thames in Henley on Thames, the
The River & Rowing Museum
celebrates and explores four core themes through a wide variety of exhibitions and events across four galleries and special exhibitions:
Rivers:  Using the Thames as a starting point, the Museum explores the environmental, ecological and social impacts of water and rivers across the world.
The historic riverside community of Henley on Thames:   This historic town, home to the Henley Royal Regatta and host to the Rowing competition in the 1908   and 1948Olympic Games, has a colourful history dating back to the stone age, all captured in a dedicated gallery explored through hugely popular temporary exhibitions.
The international sport of rowing:   One of the world’s most significant collections of rowing memorabilia, charting the sport from ancient beginnings to present day, is held at the Museum. The sport is also celebrated through temporary exhibitions throughout the year.
The Wind in the Willows : hugely popular with children and families, this exhibition recreates the timeless E H Shepard illustrations from Kenneth Grahame’s famous novel, taking visitors on a journey through the world famous riverside tale of Mr Toad and his friends.
Since opening in August 1998 the Museum has received numerous awards including the National Heritage/NPI Museum of the Year award and the Sandford Award For Heritage Education.
Location, opening and ticket information
The River & Rowing Museum, Mill Meadows, Henley on Thames, Oxfordshire, RG9 1BF. Tel. 01491 415600.
The Museum, terrace café and shop are open every day from 10am – 5.30pm in summer and 10am – 5pm in the winter
Tickets give FREE admission for a whole year!
Admission is just £8 for adults, £6 for children aged four and over, FREE for children aged three and under and £6 for senior citizens and concessions
Free parking for visitors
Members of the British Armed Forces and their families receive discounted tickets.
The River & Rowing Museum is part of the Thames Valley Museums Group (TVMG) Family Friendly initiative – a scheme that brings together 29 Museums across Berkshire, Oxfordshire and Buckinghamshire, to promote their popular appeal to the whole family
Signatory to the Kids in Museums Manifesto
Art Fund members are entitled to free admission
National
Source:  Oprah Winfrey
Books to Love and Leave Behind (Except in Your Heart)
Toss these soul-stirring books into a bike basket, read them in the pool or leave them at the cottage for next year’s readers.
10 compulsively readable paperbacks (just out now!)
7 new reads that will take you on an inner journey
Poetry for today—and every day
Books to read with a broken heart
Related articles
New Bond girl grabs attention in Skyfall poster release
(thehimalayantimes.com)
007: After 50 years, a lasting Bond
(kansascity.com)
Moneypenny
(dryinkdesigns.wordpress.com)
James Bond – Is James Bond ‘skyfall’ A Love Letter To London?
(contactmusic.com)
Share this: Twitter Facebook LinkedIn Reddit Google Pinterest More Print Email Like this: Like
Loading...
Related
Blue Nights ,
Bond girl ,
Ian McKellen ,
James Bond ,
james bond film ,
James Bond in film ,
Joan Didion ,
Maldives ,
Miss Moneypenny ,
Moneypenny ,
Naomie Harris ,
olhuveli beach ,
Oprah ,
Oprah Book Club ,
Oprah Book Club 2.0 ,
Oprah Winfrey ,
OWN ,
Skyfall ,
speedboat transfer ,
Tom Hanks ,
travel ,
Trends Travel History and Books ,
Ursula Andress ,
vacation
←
Calendar Notes
Business and Career Opportunities DOD Awarded Contracts
→
Comments are closed.
Archives
October 2015
September 2015
August 2015
July 2015
June 2015
May 2015
April 2015
March 2015
February 2015
January 2015
December 2014
November 2014
October 2014
September 2014
August 2014
July 2014
June 2014
May 2014
April 2014
March 2014
February 2014
January 2014
December 2013
November 2013
October 2013
September 2013
August 2013
July 2013
June 2013
May 2013
April 2013
March 2013
February 2013
January 2013
December 2012
November 2012
October 2012
September 2012
August 2012
July 2012
June 2012
May 2012
April 2012
March 2012
February 2012
January 2012
December 2011
November 2011
October 2011
September 2011
August 2011
Meta
Register
Log in
Follow Blog via Email
Enter your email address to follow this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
BeeNetwork News Posts of the Month
August 2012
M
T
W
T
F
S
S
« Jul
Sep »
1 2 3 4 5
6 7 8 9 10 11 12
13 14 15 16 17 18 19
20 21 22 23 24 25 26
27 28 29 30 31
Blogs I Follow
Recent Posts
BUSINESS AND CAREER OPPORTUNITIES BIDS AND PURCHASES
NEWS EXTRA
BUSINESS AND CAREER OPPORTUNITIES DOD AWARDED CONTRACTS
CALENDAR NOTES
WE THE PEOPLE
(c) 2011 - 2014 beenetworknews.com.
All Rights Reserved.
beenetworknews
Blog at WordPress.com .
The Fresh News Theme .
julius22193 keep going Oscar Relentos Welcome to my cathartic release Eye Will Not Cry "Eye Fly High" Busy K Kathryn O'Kane's blog Grow up proper A raw view on life The Neighborhood formerly known as Kendall F. Person, thepublicblogger Gotta Find a Home: Conversations with Street People H. Lewis Smith's Blog Just another WordPress.com weblog "Fresh Oil" Fresh Oil is a secret place that is continuously being filled by the spirit of God. Fresh Oil will stay purpose driven to deliver compelling writings related to social injustice and spiritually rich revelations. Moorbey'z Blog From a Nu-Afrikan perspective, Red For The Blood That We Have Shed In The Freedom Struggle Black Is For Our People & The Origin Of All Things In The Universe Green Is For Mother Afrika & The Rebirth Of Life And For Our Children JSC: Jamaicans
in Solidarity with Cuba Globalize Solidarity: A Better World is Possible Hiking Photography BBR Productions Inc, Bringing Reality to your Dreams theGrio African American Breaking News and Opinion sarah HANNAH gómez stuff & things. keepin' it real. Shashana Page - Author
Follow
Follow “beenetworknews”
Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.
Join 402 other followers
Build a website with WordPress.com
Send to Email Address
Your Name
Your Email Address
Cancel
Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
%d
bloggers like this: