Apéritif and digestif - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Apéritif and digestif - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Clipped from:  http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ap%C3%A9ritif_and_digestif
Apéritif and digestif
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Apéritifs served with appetizers.
An
apéritif
(also spelled
aperitif ) is an
alcoholic drink
that is usually served to stimulate the appetite before a meal, contrasting with
digestifs,
which are served after meals. Apéritifs are commonly served with something small to eat, such as
crackers ,
cheese ,
pâté ,
olives , and various kinds of
finger food . [ 1 ] [ 2 ]
This French word is derived from the Latin verb
aperire , which means “to open.”
A digestif is an
alcoholic beverage
that is taken just after a meal, purportedly as an aid to digestion — hence the name, which is borrowed from
French . If a digestif is a
bitters , it will contain bitter or
carminative
herbs that some believe will aid digestion. [ 3 ]
In contrast to apéritifs, digestifs usually contain more alcohol.
Digestifs are usually taken straight ( neat ). Common choices are
amari ,
bitters ,
brandy ,
grappa ,
herbal liqueur ,
limoncello ,
ouzo ,
tequila , and
whisky .
Some
wines
(usually
fortified wines ) are served as digestifs — for example,
sherry ,
port , and
madeira .
Contents
[ hide ]
1
History 2
Types 3
See also 4
References
[ edit ]
History
The aperitif was introduced in 1846, when a French chemist, Joseph Dubonnet, created a wine-based drink as a means of delivering malaria-fighting quinine. The medicine is a bitter brew, so he developed a formula of herbs and spices to mask quinine's sharp flavor, and it worked so well that the recipe has remained well-guarded ever since. French Foreign Legion soldiers made use of it in mosquito-infested Northern Africa. Joseph's wife was so fond of the stuff that she had all her friends try it, and its popularity spread from there.
Some say that the concept of drinking a small amount of alcohol before a meal dates back to the
ancient Egyptians . Main records, however, show that the apéritif first appeared in 1786 in
Turin ,
Italy , when
Antonio Benedetto Carpano
invented
vermouth
in this city. In later years, vermouth was produced and sold by such well-known companies as
Martini ,
Cinzano , and
Gancia .
Apéritifs were already widespread in the 19th century in Italy, where they were being served in fashionable cafes in Rome, Venice, Florence, Milan, Turin, and Naples. Apéritifs became very popular in Europe in the late 19th century. By 1900, they were also commonly served in the United States. In Spain and in some countries of
Latin America , apéritifs have been a staple of
tapas cuisine
for centuries.
[ edit ]
Types