My Exploration of the World and Myself: Paris, the summer, and I
My Exploration of the World and Myself
My story...
I left Vancouver on April 4 2010 to live one year abroad. I arrived in London- spent a week with my cousins, headed over to Ireland to see some more cousins and tour the country, back to London for a day- and arrived in Paris on April 28th, 2010. I found an apartment and started working on May 10th. From May 2010 until February 2011 I lived the Parisian life and took advantage of living in the epicenter of the world by traveling and exploring numerous nearby countries such as: Algeria, Portugal, Switzerland, Spain, England, Ireland, Northern Ireland, the south of France, Belgium, Morocco, and South Africa.
This blog takes you into the wonderful adventures of my life with stories and pictures galore.
I was due back to Vancouver on April 1, 2011- where I took my position back after my one year leave. I flew back to Vancouver on March 27, 2011. It has been good to be back- I am so blessed as I am surrounded by such great people!!! So good to see friends and family again after 1 year! Just because I'm back in Vancouver to what was my "normal" life... doesn't mean the adventures and blogging stop here. The adventures will continue I'm sure... so
the only way to stay informed with my random experiences is to come back to this page! So add it to your favourites. last updated: April 2, 2011.
Tuesday, 21 September 2010
Paris, the summer, and I
As it is the last day of summer today, I thought it would be quite fitting to share with you what my summer experience was like in and around Paris. Fitting photo to begin with: Great shoes, great poster, and a great book: "The Sweet life in Paris" by David Lebovitz. I highly recommend this book, it speaks so much truth about Paris. I read it and giggled to myself almost every page because the experiences David has had in Paris, I myself have had over and over again too... sooo good!!!! And his recipes are fabulous as well!!!! Well...although I missed B.C.'s lakes and BBQ's... I was able to do some of that myself here as well... Isabelle, Roseni, Segio, Mauricio and I went out to a lake where you have to pay to fish. It's funny because they dump the fish in the lake and you pay them to catch it. The catch is you don't need a fishing license, where as with all other lakes, you do. Roseni caught the first fish... Isabelle caught the second.... And I caught the 3rd and 4th... leave it up to the girls to do the work.... The guys caught nothing.... In return...they get the dirty work! And Roseni put her expert skills into the cooking of the fruits of our labour... MMMmmmm... SOooo good!!! There's the wilderness, and there's the city life... here are some random experiences... Eating a delicious prawn from the famous Stohrer..mMMmmm Watching La Tour de France.... Going to the INCREDIBLE Yves Saint-Laurent exhibit at the Petit Palais... A balance is always required... so back out to the nature we go.... Picnics in the park.... A Brazilian BBQ feast!!!! Yummmmm...this Halal steak was SOOooooOOoo good with salt, pepper, lime juice, and smoke from the BBQ... Isabelle...finishing the red wine...again... Diogo and I! Sergio and Diogo! Back to the city we go.... Hanging out eating a vanilla macaron with fresh raspberries in the Jardin du Luxembourg with Geoffrey... Vasco and Nunez getting a bite!!! Ashley, Yannick, Geoffrey, and I attending ciné en plein air= outdoor theatre!!! Geoffrey and I making a fabulous meal with fresh veggies from the garden, mini toasts, and all sorts of goodies! Beautiful!!!! Opposite side of the spectrum, therefore still emphasizing balance and equilibrium... eating some poutine!!! Isabelle's first poutine experience, but it won't be the last....we will return to the Canadian pub when hockey season's well underway to give her the true experience!!!! Ashley and I under the Eiffel Tower... it was so fabulous having a friend from Abbotsford in town for a month!!!!!!! The lack of a lake or the ocean can really get to Parisians, so the city decides to set up "Paris Plages" every year beside the Seine river. Paris-Plages
("Paris Beaches"; till 2006
Paris-Plage
in the singular) is a plan run by the office of the
mayor of Paris
that creates temporary
artificial beaches
each summer along the river
Seine
in the centre of
Paris .
Every July and August, roadways on the banks of the river are blocked
off and host various activities, including sandy beaches and palm trees.
[ edit ]
History
French city-dwellers traditionally escape to the seaside or the
countryside during the summer, especially in August. Paris is avoided,
as the weather is unpleasantly hot and humid, and the centre is full of
tourists. Nevertheless, each summer many residents are obliged to remain
in the city, however reluctantly. The Paris-Plages scheme was
instigated in 2002 by
Bertrand Delanoë , the newly-elected
Socialist Party
mayor, as a haven for relieving the misery of those cooped up in the sweltering city.
Initially there was a single beach on the
Rive Droite . In 2006 a second beach was added on the
Rive Gauche , and the scheme's name changed from singular to plural. [ 1 ]
Unlike many beaches in France,
topless sunbathing
is not permitted. Swimming in the Seine is also not permitted, for safety reasons. [ 2 ]
The scheme has proven a major success; the number of visitors has
grown each year and topped four million in 2007. Every season, new
features are added. [ 2 ]
These include a shuttle
ferry swimming pool , and another beach area at
La Villette , in the northeast corner of the city.
linking the two riverbanks, a floating
Le Touquet naming dispute
The name "Paris-Plage" was
trademarked
in 2002. In August 2006, the mayor's office sued the
commune
of
Le Touquet-Paris-Plage
for impinging on the trademark by using the phrase "Paris-Plage" in its
tourism marketing. This was greeted with scepticism, since the
commune's name dated from 1912, based on earlier popular usage. The case
was dropped in 2008. [ 3 ] [ 4 ] An Apéritif is generally an alcoholic based drink one has before a meal, but doesn't always have to be alcoholic. I like the concept of chatting over a glass of liquid... a lot of times this is done outside, what better Parisian location than the Seine River itself. Apéritif and digestif
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
(Redirected from
Apero )
Jump to:
navigation ,
search
Apéritifs served with appetizers.
An
apéritif
(also spelled
aperitif ) is an
alcoholic drink
that is usually served to stimulate the appetite before a meal, contrasting with
digestifs,
which are served after meals. Apéritifs are commonly served with something small to eat, such as
crackers ,
cheese ,
pâté ,
olives , and various kinds of
finger food . [ 1 ] [ 2 ]
This French word is derived from the Latin verb
aperire , which means “to open.”
A digestif is an
alcoholic beverage
that is taken just after a meal, purportedly as an aid to digestion — hence the name, which is borrowed from
French . If a digestif is a
bitters , it will contain bitter or
carminative
herbs that some believe will aid digestion. [ 3 ]
In contrast to apéritifs, digestifs usually contain more alcohol.
Digestifs are usually taken straight ( neat ). Common choices are
amari ,
bitters ,
brandy ,
grappa ,
herbal liqueur ,
limoncello ,
ouzo ,
tequila , and
whisky .
Some
wines
(usually
fortified wines ) are served as digestifs — for example,
sherry ,
port , and
madeira . History
The aperitif was introduced in 1846, when a French chemist, Joseph
Dubonnet, created a wine-based drink as a means of delivering
malaria-fighting quinine. The medicine is a bitter brew, so he developed
a formula of herbs and spices to mask quinine's sharp flavor, and it
worked so well that the recipe has remained well-guarded ever since.
French Foreign Legion soldiers made use of it in mosquito-infested
Northern Africa. Joseph's wife was so fond of the stuff that she had all
her friends try it, and its popularity spread from there.
Some say that the concept of drinking a small amount of alcohol before a meal dates back to the
ancient Egyptians . Main records, however, show that the apéritif first appeared in 1786 in
Turin ,
Italy , when
Antonio Benedetto Carpano
invented
vermouth
in this city. In later years, vermouth was produced and sold by such well-known companies as
Martini ,
Cinzano , and
Gancia .
Apéritifs were already widespread in the 19th century in Italy, where
they were being served in fashionable cafes in Rome, Venice, Florence,
Milan, Turin, and Naples. Apéritifs became very popular in Europe in the
late 19th century. By 1900, they were also commonly served in the
United States. In Spain and in some countries of
Latin America , apéritifs have been a staple of
tapas cuisine
for centuries.
[ edit ]
Types
Five glasses of apéritif.
There is no single alcoholic drink that is always used for an apéritif;
fortified wines ,
liqueurs , and
dry champagne
are possibly the most common choices.
Sherry , a fortified wine, is a very popular apéritif. In Greece,
ouzo
is a popular choice; in France,
pastis . In Italy, vermouth or
bitters
(amari)
may be served; popular brands of bitters are
Campari ,
Cinzano ,
Byrrh , and
Suze . In the
Eastern Mediterranean
Arak
is served with
mezze . and apéro and a sunset....nothing better than this. exploring Paris.... Checking out window displays.... Eating famous falafels....from the take-out restaurant L'As Falafel in the Marais. mmmmmm On August 28th I attended Rock En Seine The
Rock en Seine
festival is a two or three-day
Rock 'n roll
festival , held at Domaine National de Saint-Cloud,
Château de Saint-Cloud 's park just outside Paris, inside the garden designed by
Le Nôtre . It is the festival at which
Oasis
split up on the 28th August 2009 after Liam and Noel Gallagher had a
fight just before they were due to headline the main stage. I went to the concert alone because nobody else wanted to go with me...
and I had to attend an out door concert in Paris! It was great!!!! I
watched new and funky bands...
look up Paolo Nutini... he is Scottish
awesomenessssss!!! And of course... I saw K'naan :) ....again. I'll have you know he's performing AGAIN in Paris this November, but I don't think I'll be attending this time :) haha Sundays in France are fabulous. In every town there is a market which sells fresh fruits, veggies, fish, meat, cheese, etc. I attend my weekly market here in Clamart... and usually invest in goodies such as these... Luc and I decided one day to explore a famous garden here in Paris... called "Le Jardin des Plantes" it's great, it's got a great outdoor flora display, indoor tropical plants, great outdoor artwork, and a zoo with rare animals. Here I am making art.... And here I am eating a disgraceful french crepe. If a french person saw the crepe that we were served in the garden, as well as the way I was eating it, they would just bow their heads in shame. We ordered crepes with Nutella for a treat... but instead got raw, sticky, pieces of flour with oozing Nutella coming out... I still ate it... but boy was it messy! Here's a picture of the boat restaurant on the Seine River Some lovey dovies enjoying a view of the Notre Dame Me chillin' beside a door... not just any door, a door with French character... Beautiful ... Love locks that you will find on Paris bridges, with little notes like "Pierre et Francine= Amour" HAhahahaha... me trying to get up on the Hotel de Ville wall... ohhhh goodness. And I'm up! And I'm posing.... And a kiss for you, you, and you! I love these ever so French apartments! Okay, so Luc and I have a family day every Sunday...because we both don't have family here, every Sunday when we're both in Paris we go for a walk to explore Paris and end our promenade at this fabulous sushi joint in the Marais. It's called Kyo and we are addicted to these salmon cones... Mom...you would absolutely love these!!!! I know you love cones, but these are cones back home times 10. Luc about to chow down... The secret ingredient (aside from love) is the creamy cheese they put in them!!!!!! Only in France..... This is part of my crew... Sergio on the left, me, Isabelle, Diogo, Roseni and another girl who we don't know! These were taken outside the front of the Embassy!!! My french besty/sista in Paris.. Isabelle aka Iza aka Izy aka Izo aka Iz!!!!! It wouldn't be a Canadian Embassy if there wasn't a totem pole inside!!! MOI! in the outside terrace which is on the inside of the Embassy... The Embassy is in the shape of a square and on the inside is a beautiful terrace. Every Friday there is something called cinq à sept (5 to 7) where they serve super cheap drinks and snacks and people just hang out after a long week at work... it's always a blast!!!!! This was our night out for Roseni's birthday before she left for Brazil... Yay for birthday girls! The crew at an Italian Restaurant!!! Samir, myself, and Iza sportin our sunnies at night! Watch for it... upside down glasses in the dark... Summer 2011. Good times :) Sergio and I!!! I love the picture... my hair looks fabulous!!! Well... as summer comes to an end... the fun keeps going... good times with good friends in Paris- summer 2010!
Posted by
Farida the ALLY
at
9/21/2010 01:15:00 p.m.
1 comment:
Cupcakes by Zee 1 October 2010 at 06:51 I love the fun you're having darling!!! Enjoy..you look so happy! Reply Delete Add comment Load more...
Newer Post
Older Post
Home
Subscribe to:
Post Comments (Atom)
Blog Archive
►
2011
(9)
►
April
(3)
►
March
(4)
►
February
(2)
▼
2010
(104)
►
December
(2)
►
November
(5)
►
October
(11)
▼
September
(5)
Provence
Cassis, France: My paradise
I found and left...
Paris, the summer, and I
Swiss Bliss
►
August
(11)
►
July
(7)
►
June
(15)
►
May
(15)
►
April
(33)
Thank you!
Hey everyone! I just wanted to
say a special thank you to those who are reading my blog and keeping up
with my life adventures... it really means a lot to me that your caring
and curious soul has even made it to this website in the first place! I
hope you are all enjoying the posts.... Please feel free to comment... I
know people read it, but it's nice to hear some words every once
in a while, acknowledging your participation in my experience!!!
How to comment...
Quite a few people have asked how to post comments... so what you do is go to the bottom of a blog post, click on the number of comments (for example- most of the posts say: 0 comments), write some words in the comment box that appears (add your name so I know who it's from), then choose from the menu
Comment as:
Anonymous... and post! I think you have to type one of those security words too... and voila! (ps- you know that if I am writing this... it's also an encouragement...)
About Me
Farida the ALLY
"She is a Bedouin...a predominantly desert-dwelling Arab, otherwise known as a nomad - a member of a people who have no permanent home but move about according to the seasons," said my grandmother.
View my complete profile
Search This Blog
Loading...
Followers
You & _____ people have visited my blog
Popular Posts
Rouen, France
Sorry for the delay.... The weekend of June 19-20......
So my wonderful cousin Zee has two friends that she met in Ireland who are French...
Hammam
I don't know exactly what my pattern has been in past blog posts...but I'm doing to do things a little differently this time.....
Freedom Fighters
Boy was I a proud South African descendent last Saturday evening…
I was fortunate to see Mr. Vusi Mahlasela in concert last Saturday with...
Algeria- Day3
Day 3 was a day dedicated to souvenir shopping and exploring the country's capital: Algiers. So we left Boufarik- where my uncle's f...
Lisboa- Part 1
One Long Weekend.
Two Flights.
Three friends.
Four Seasons Hotel.
Five star accommodation .
And that my friends, in a nutshell, was my ...
Links from me to you
Apartment rentals in Paris
Best steak ever in Paris
Sushi with a twist in Paris
Flame Grilled Chicken
Opera Dinner in Paris
Flight Radar 24/7
My cousin- the artist
My cousin- the baker/mother
My cousin- the designer
Wiki- my main source
Watermark template. Template images by
enjoynz . Powered by
Blogger .