Affiliate marketing, Automotive, elite property adn others ....!: Juli 2007
skip to main
|
skip to sidebar
Affiliate marketing, Automotive, elite property adn others ....!
a little excitement everything
Search Me To Earn Money !!!
Enter your search terms
Submit search form
Web
www.ebay.com
beritaotomotif.blogspot.com
www.wikipedia.com
Selasa, 31 Juli 2007
Variable valve timing
Variable valve timing Variable valve timing , or
VVT , is a generic term for an
automobile
piston engine
technology. VVT allows the
lift
or
duration
or
timing
(some or all) of the
intake
or
exhaust
valves
(or both) to be changed while the engine is in operation.
Two-stroke
engines use a
Power valve system
to get similar results to VVT Overview
The
i-VTEC
system found in the
Honda
K20Z3 .
Piston engines
normally use
poppet valves
for intake and
exhaust. These are driven
(directly
or indirectly) by
cams
on a
camshaft . The cams open the valves ( lift ) for a certain amount of time ( duration ) during each intake
and exhaust cycle. The
timing
of the valve opening and closing is also important. The camshaft is driven by the crankshaft through
timing belts ,
gears
or
chains .
The profile, or position and shape of the cam lobes on the shaft, is optimized for a certain engine
rpm , and this tradeoff normally limits low-end
torque
or high-end
power . VVT allows the cam profile to change, which results in greater efficiency and power.
At high engine speeds, an engine requires large amounts of air. However, the intake valves may close before all the air has been given a chance to flow in, reducing performance.
On the other hand, if the cam keeps the valves open for longer periods of time, as with a racing cam, problems start to occur at the lower engine speeds. This will cause unburnt fuel to exit the engine since the valves are still open. This leads to lower engine performance and increased emissions.
Pressure to meet environmental goals and fuel efficiency standards is forcing car manufacturers to turn to VVT as a solution. Most simple VVT systems (like
Mazda 's
S-VT ) advance or retard the timing of the intake or exhaust valves. Others (like
Honda 's
VTEC ) switch between two sets of cam lobes at a certain engine RPM. Still others (like
BMW 's
Valvetronic ) can alter timing and lift continuously, which is called
Continuous variable valve timing
or CVVT History
Fiat
was the first auto manufacturer to patent a functional variable valve timing system which included variable lift. Developed by Giovanni Torazza in the late
1960s , the system used hydraulic pressure to vary the fulcrum of the cam followers (US Patent 3,641,988). The hydraulic pressure changed according to engine speed and intake pressure. The typical opening variation was 37%.
In September
1975 ,
General Motors
patented a system intended to vary valve lift.
GM
was interested in throttling the intake valves in order to reduce emissions. This was done by minimizing the amount of lift at low load to keep the intake velocity higher, thereby atomizing the intake charge.
GM
encountered problems running at very low lift, and abandoned the project.
Alfa Romeo
was the first manufacturer to use a variable valve timing system in production cars (US Patent 4,231,330). The
1980
Alfa Romeo Spider
2.0 L had a mechanical VVT system in Spica fuel injected cars sold in the
USA . Later this was also used in the
1983
Alfetta
2.0 Quadrifoglio Oro models as well as other cars.
In
1986 ,
Nissan
developed their own form of VVT with the
VG30DE(TT)
engine for their Mid-4 Concept.
Nissan
chose to focus their
NVCS
( Nissan
Valve-Timing Control System) mainly at low and medium speed torque production because the vast majority of the time, engine RPMs will not be at extremely high speeds. The
NVCS
system can produce both a smooth idle, and high amounts of low and medium speed torque. Although it can help a little at the top-end also, the main focus of the system is low and medium range torque production. The
VG30DE
engine was first used in the
300ZX
(Z31) 300ZR model in
1987 , this was the first production car to use electronically controlled VVT technology.
Honda's
VTEC motorcycle engine
employed on the Japanese market-only Honda CBR400F in
1983
provided as a technology basis for VTEC. The next step was taken in
1989
by
Honda
with the
VTEC
system.
Honda
had started production of a system that gives an engine the ability to operate on two completely different cam profiles, eliminating a major compromise in engine design. One profile designed to operate the valves at low engine speeds provides good road manners, low fuel consumption and low emissions output. The second is a high lift, long duration profile and comes into operation at high engine speeds to provide an increase in power output. The
VTEC
system was also further developed to provide other functions in engines designed primarily for low fuel consumption. The first
VTEC
engine
Honda
produced was the
B16A
which was installed in the
Integra ,
CRX , and
Civic
hatchback available in Japan and Europe. In
1991 Acura / Honda
NSX
powered by the
C30A
became the first
VTEC
equipped vehicle available in the
US .
VTEC
can be considered the first "cam switching" system and is also one of only a few currently in production.
the
In
1991 ,
Clemson University
researchers patented the Clemson Camshaft which was designed to provide continuously variable valve timing independently for both the intake and exhaust valves on a single camshaft assembly. This ability makes it suitable for both
pushrod
and
overhead cam
engine applications. [1]
In
1992
BMW
introduced the
VANOS
system. Like the
Nissan
NVCS
system it could provide timing variation for the intake cam in steps (or phases), the
VANOS
system differed in that it could provide one additional step for a total of three. Then in
1998
the
Double Vanos
system was introduced which significantly enhances emission management, increases output and torque, and offers better idling quality and fuel economy.
Double Vanos
was the first system which could provide electronically controlled, continuous timing variation for both the intake and exhaust valves. In
2001
BMW
introduced the
Valvetronic
system. The
Valvetronic
system is unique in that it can continuously vary intake valve lift, in addition to timing for both the intake and exhaust valves. The precise control the system has over the intake valves allows for the intake charge to be controlled entirely by the intake valves, eliminating the need for a
throttle
valve and greatly reducing
pumping loss . The reduction of
pumping loss
accounts for more than a 10% increase in power output and fuel economy.
Ford became the first manufacturer to use variable valve timing in a pickup-truck, with the top-selling
Ford F-series
in the
2004
model year. The engine used was the
5.4L 3-valve Triton .
In
2005
General Motors
offered the first Variable Valve timing system for
I-head
V6 engines,
LZE
and
LZ4 .
In
2007
DaimlerChrysler
became the first manufacturer to produce a cam-in-block engine with independent control of exhaust cam timing relative to the intake. The 2008
Dodge Viper
uses Mechadyne's concentric camshaft assembly to help boost power output to 600 Bhp VVT Implementations
Aftermarket Modifications - Conventional hydraulic tappet can be engineered to rapidly bleed-down for variable reduction of valve opening and duration. Alfa Romeo
Twin Spark
- TS stands for "Twinspark" engine, it is equipped with Variable Valve Timing technology. BMW
Valvetronic
- Provides continuously variable lift for the intake valves; used in conjunction with Double VANOS. BMW
VANOS
- Varies intake timing by rotating the
camshaft
in relation to the gear. BMW
Double VANOS
- Continuously varies the timing of the intake and exhaust valves. Ford
Variable Cam Timing
- Varies valve timing by rotating the camshaft. DaimlerChrysler
- Varies valve timing thought the use of concentric camshafts developed by Mechadyne enabling dual-independent inlet/exhaust valve adjustment on the 2008
Dodge Viper . GM
VVT - Varies valve timing continuously throughout the RPM range for both intake and exhaust for improved performance in both
overhead valve
and
overhead cam
engine applications.(See also
Northstar System ). GM
DCVCP
(Double Continuous Variable Cam Phasing) - Varies timing with
hydraulic Ecotec LE5 ).
vane type phaser (see also
Holden
Alloytec
- Continuously variable camshaft phasing for inlet cams. Continuously variable camshaft phasing for inlet cams and exhaust cams (High Output Alloytec). Honda
VTEC
- Varies duration, timing and lift by switching between two different sets of cam
lobes . Honda
i-VTEC
- In high-output
DOHC
4 cylinder
engines the
i-VTEC
system adds continuous intake cam phasing (timing) to traditional
VTEC . In economy oriented
SOHC DOHC
4 cylinder
engines the
i-VTEC
system increases engine efficiency by delaying the closure of the intake valves under certain conditions and by using an electronically controlled throttle valve to reduce
pumping loss . In
SOHC
V6
engines the
i-VTEC
system is used to provide
Variable Cylinder Management
which deactivates one bank of 3 cylinders during low demand operation.
and
Honda
VTEC-E
- Unlike most
VTEC
systems
VTEC-E
is not a cam switching system, instead it uses the
VTEC
mechanism to allow for a lean intake charge to be used by closing one intake valve under certain conditions. Hyundai
MPI CVVT - Varies power, torque, exhaust system, and engine response. Kawasaki
- Varies position of cam by changing oil pressure thereby advancing and retarding the valve timing,
2008 Concours 14 . Lexus
VVT-iE
- Continuously varies the intake camshaft timing using an electric actuator. Mazda
S-VT
- Varies timing by rotating the
camshaft . Mitsubishi
MIVEC
- Continuously varies valve timing, duration and lift by switching between two different sets of cam lobes. Nissan
N-VCT
- Varies the rotation of the cam(s) only, does not alter lift or duration of the valves. Nissan
VVL
- Varies timing, duration, and lift of the intake and exhaust valves by using two different sets of cam
lobes . Nissan
VVT
introduced with the HR15DE HR16DE
MR18DE MR20DE
new engines in September 2004 on the
Nissan Tiida
and north american version named
Nissan Versa
(in 2007); and finally the
Nissan Sentra
(in 2007). Porsche
VarioCam
- Varies intake timing by adjusting tension of a cam chain. Porsche
VarioCam Plus
- Varies intake valve timing by rotating the cam in relation to the cam sprocket as well as duration, timing and lift of the intake and exhaust valves by switching between two different sets of cam lobes. Proton
Campro CPS
- Still under development, said to be based on Lotus technology which developed Porsche's VarioCam. PSA Peugeot Citroën
CVVT - Continuous variable valve timing. Renault Clio 182, Clio Cup and Clio V6 Mk2
VVT - variable valve timing. Rover
VVC
- Varies timing with an eccentric disc. Suzuki
- VVT -
Suzuki M engine Subaru
AVCS
- Varies timing (phase) with
hydraulic
pressure, used on turbocharged and six-cylinder Subaru engines. Subaru
AVLS
- Varies duration, timing and lift by switching between two different sets of cam lobes (similar to Honda VTEC). Used by non-turbocharged Subaru engines. Toyota
VVT
- Toyota
4A-GE 20-Valve engine
introduced VVT in the 1992 Corolla GT-versions. Toyota
VVT-i
- Continuously varies the timing of the intake camshaft, or both the intake and exhaust camshafts (depending on application). Toyota
VVTL-i
- Continuously varies the timing of the intake valves. Varies duration, timing and lift of the intake and exhaust valves by switching between two different sets of cam lobes. Volkswagen
- VVT introduced with the 1.8T engine. The intake timing intentionally runs advanced and a retard point is calculated by the ECU. A hydraulic tensioner retards the intake timing. Volvo
- VVT Yamaha
- VCT (Variable Cam Timing) Varies position of cam thereby advancing and retarding the valve timing.
Diposkan oleh
general knowledge
di
14.57
Tidak ada komentar:
Lamborghini Automobili Lamborghini S.p.A. , com monly referred to as
Lamborghini , is an Italian
manufacturer of high performance
sports cars
( supercar ) based in the small
Italian
village
of
Sant'Agata Bolognese , near
Bologna . Lamborghini is now a subsidiary of German car manufacturer
Audi AG , which is in turn a subsidiary of
Volkswagen . [1]
[2]
Lamborghini is the main counterpart to
Ferrari
in the Italian sports car business. The Italian company was founded in
1963
by businessman
Ferruccio La mborghini
( April 28 ,
1916 – February 20 ,
1993 ), who owned a successful
tractor
factory ,
Lamborghini Trattori S.p .A History Origin
The most common version, as told by Ferruccio Lamborghini's son
[3] , is that Ferruccio Lamborghini went to meet
Enzo Ferrari
at the
Ferrari
factory to complain about the quality of the
clutch
in the
Ferrari 250
GT he owned. Enzo Ferrari sent him away telling him to go and drive tractors because he was not able to drive cars. Lamborghini went back to his factory, had his Ferrari's clutch dismantled and realized that the clutch manufacturer was the same who supplied the clutches for his tractors. In his warehouse he found a spare part which he thought suitable, and when it was installed the problem was solved.
Ferruccio decided that his car was to have a
V12
engine, and enlisted the services of talented engineer
Giotto Bizzarrini , who had previously worked on a Ferrari V12. The new engine had 4
cams , a short stroke and 2 big bore valves per cylinder, and developed a surprising 350
horsepower
(260 kW). The engine featured aluminium construction, with a
crankshaft camshafts
with their own half-engine-speed sprocket and
silent chain. The car the engine was mounted in was designed by
Franco Scaglione 's Scaglione-Touring.
supported by seven main bearings, forged aluminium pistons, and
This
Lamborghini 350GTV
prototype began making public appearances in 1963, starting with the Turin Auto Show. Sales of the production model, known as the
350GT , began the following year with great success, with over 130 examples sold. Born under the sign of the
Taurus , Ferruccio Lamborghini used the bull as the badge by which to mark his new automobile.
[ edit ]
Under Ferruccio Lamborghini
The 350GT by Lamborghini was followed up by the
400GT . The excellent sales of the 400GT and its predecessor gave the company sufficient funds to design its first supercar - the now-legendary
Lamborghini Miura , which was premiered by Ferruccio himself in November 1965 at the Turin Auto Show. The car's engine was
transversely
mounted. The styling was executed by
Marcello Gandini
in less than a year; a com pleted car was displayed at the
Geneva Auto Show
in March, 1966 (the Turin car was only a chassis). The car's name was taken from that of a famed fighting-bull trainer,
Don Eduardo Miura . The Miura was a success for Lamborghini: 111 were sold in 1967, and it propelled the company into the small world of exotic supercar manufacturers.
At the same time, the Espada, a four-seat car based on the Marzal concept car, was developed. The name Espada means sword in Spanish, and referred to the sword used by the matador in bullfighting. Using the 4-litre V12 in a conventional layout up front, this low slung touring car could attain a top speed of around 150 mph in comfort. One interesting feature of the Espada was a glass taillight panel that used the same taillights as the contemporary Fiat 124 Coupe. The Espa da received minor improvements in keeping with the time as the years went by, ending up with 3 different versions.
In 1971, Lamborghini brought the unusual-looking
LP500 Countach
prototype, named after an Italian slang term uttered in surprise by a person who had just seen the new car. The production
LP400 Countach
was introduced three years later. The prototype was the first car to sport Lamborghini's now-traditional scissor doors, along with vertically mounted rear air intakes. The same 4-litre V12 engine was used, an uprated 5-litre engine arriving later in the Countach production. The Countach was also one of the first cars to use the new Pirelli P-Zero tyres when they came out. Lamborghini's own test driver was sometimes the "chauffeur" for motoring magazines' journalists, and stories of the Countach's amazing high speed cornering, power and grip were common. Another point noted by journalists was the manner in which reversing a Countach was accomplished; raising the driver's door and sitting on the door sill. In 1972, however, the company suffered a major setback. A massive tractor order for a South Americ an nation was cancelled, rendering upgrades Lamborghini had already made to its factories in anticipation of the demand useless. The money lost drove Ferruccio to sell part of his share in the tractor factory, w hic h was taken over by
Fiat . The tractor business was eventually acquired by SAME (now
Same Deutz-Fahr ). Lamborghini tractors are still sold today, as part of the SAME Deutz-Fahr Group.
Throughout the seventies, sales of the Countach kept the company in business. Soon enough, the car division became self-sufficient and profitable. Lamborghini, however, sold all his remaining stock in the company to a Swiss investor, leaving the automotive industry behind to pursue wine making from the comfort of his villa in the countryside. Ferruccio Lamborghini died in February
1993
at the age of 76. Partnerships
I n 2006, Lamborghini partnered with
Asus
to produce the Asus Lamborghini VX series of
notebook computers . The current VX notebooks are VX1 and VX2. Both feature the Lamborghini logo on the lid, and both are relatively powerful, with the later VX2 featuring a Core 2 Duo processor clocked at 2.16 GHz, 2GB of DDR2 RAM, and an nVidia GeForce Go 7700 graphics card with 512MB
Diposkan oleh
general knowledge
di
11.55
Tidak ada komentar:
Unfortunately for
Noah
or
Frank , Ferrari has gone and revealed the new F430 Scuderia when neither are around, so it's up to me to convey how fantabulous this new Prancing Horse is to you. We've been following for some time what we thought would be called the new
F430 Challenge Stradale , but Ferrari has instead decided to name it the F430 Scuderia. Regardless of what it's called, this new F430 joins the coupe and spyder, yet takes a decidedly harder, more track-oriented edge than its siblings. The car weighs around 100kg (220 lbs.) less than the standard F430 coupe, and its version of Ferrari's 4.3L V8 produces 510 horsepower instead of 483. That gives the Scuderia a frighteningly low power-to-weight ratio of 1 horsepower for every 5.4 lbs. The new F430 Scuderia also promises to carry a lot of trickle-down F1 technology as well, including lightning-quick 60 millisecond shifts and an integrated traction and stability control system. In order to accentuate the car's F1 connection, none other than famed F1 driver Michael Schumacher will officially unveil the car in Frankfurt this September. Until then, we have a gallery of high-res shots for you to flip through below and Ferrari's press release after the jump
Diposkan oleh
general knowledge
di
07.50
Tidak ada komentar:
Label:
Scuderia 2007
Senin, 30 Juli 2007
The History Of Scuderia Ferrari
Scuderia Ferrari
is the name for the Gestione Sportiva, the division of the
Ferrari
automobile company concerned with racing. Though the Scuderia and
Ferrari Corse Clienti
continue to manage the racing activities of numerous Ferrari customers and private teams, Ferrari's racing division has completely devoted its attention and funding to its
Formula One
team,
Scuderia Ferrari . Scuderia is
Italian
for "Stable", and Ferrari is
Italian
prancing horse, thus the prancing horse being the logo of Ferrari, so the name is liberraly translated as "Stable of the Prancing Horse".
Scuderia Ferrari was founded in 1929, and raced for
Alfa Romeo
until 1939. Ferrari first competed in F1 in 1948 (the team's first F1 car was the Tipo 125 F1), making it the oldest and arguably the most successful team left in the championship. The team's current drivers are
Felipe Massa
and
Kimi Räikkönen , who has signed on to Ferrari for a three-year contract with the retirement of
Michael Schumacher
after the 2006 season, and its test drivers are
Luca Badoer
and
Marc Gené . The team principal is
Jean Todt , with
Stefano Domenicali
as sporting director, and its technical director is
Mario Almondo . Both men are newly promoted following the promotion of Todt and the departure of
Ross Brawn , although Todt will remain as team principal for at least 2007. The team's numerous and ardent Italian fans have come to be known as
tifosi . 1929-1950
Scuderia Ferrari was founded by
Enzo Ferrari
in 1929 as a sponsor for amateur drivers in various races, though Ferrari himself had raced a bit in
Fiat
cars before that date. The idea came about on the night of
November 16
at a dinner in
Bologna , where Ferrari solicited financial help from
Augusto
and
Alfredo Caniato , textile heirs, and wealthy amateur racer
Mario Tadini . He then gathered a team which at its peak included over forty drivers, most of whom raced in various
Alfa Romeo 8C
cars; Enzo himself continued racing, with moderate success, until the birth of his first son
Dino
in 1932.
In 1933 Alfa Romeo experienced economic difficulties, and most Alfa racing was then done by Scuderia Ferrari. In 1935 Enzo Ferrari and Luigi Bazzi built the Alfa Romeo Bimotore which wore the Ferrari blazon on its flank. In 1935 Alfa Corse became active again. Ferrari managed numerous established drivers (notably
Tazio Nuvolari ,
Giuseppe Campari ,
Achille Varzi
and
Louis Chiron ) and several talented rookies (such as Tandini,
Guy Moll ,
Carlo Maria Pintacuda , and
Antonio Brivio ) from his headquarters in
Viale Trento e Trieste ,
Modena ,
Italy , until 1938, at which point Alfa Romeo made him the manager of the factory racing division,
Alfa Corse . In 1939 he left Alfa upon learning of the company's intention to buy him out and absorb the Scuderia; his company became
Auto Avio Costruzioni Ferrari , which manufactured machine tools. The deal with Alfa included the condition that he not use the Ferrari name on cars for four years.
Despite his agreement with Alfa, Ferrari immediately began work a racecar of his own, the
Tipo 815
(eight cylinders, 1.5 L displacement). The 815s, designed by
Alberto Massimino , were thus the first true Ferrari cars, but after
Alberto Ascari
and the
Marchese Lotario Rangoni Machiavelli di Modena
drove them in the 1940
Mille Miglia ,
World War II
put a temporary end to racing and the 815s saw no more competition. Ferrari continued to manufacture machine tools (specifically
oleodynamic grinding machines ); in 1943 he moved his headquarters to
Maranello , where in 1944 it was promptly bombed.
Rules for a Grand Prix World Championship had been laid out before the war but it took several years afterward for the series to get going; meanwhile Ferrari rebuilt his works in Maranello and constructed the 12-cylinder, 1.5 L
Tipo 125 , which competed at several non-championship Grands Prix. The car made its debut in the
1948 Italian Grand Prix
with
Raymond Sommer , and achieved its first win at the minor
Circuito di Garda
with
Giuseppe Farina. Sponsorship
Marlboro
has sponsored Ferrari since 1984 and has been title sponsor since 1997 (prior to which it was the title sponsor of McLaren). In September 2005 Ferrari announced they had signed an extension of their sponsorship arrangement with Marlboro ( Philip Morris ) until 2011. This comes at a time when tobacco sponsorship has become illegal in the European Union and other major teams have withdrawn from relationships with tobacco companies, for example McLaren ended their eight year relationship with
West . In reporting the deal,
F1 Racing
magazine judged it to be a "black day" for the sport, putting non-tobacco funded teams at a disadvantage and discouraging other brands from entering a sport still associated with tobacco. The magazine estimates that in the period between 2005 and 2011 Ferrari will receive $1 billion from the agreement.
Depending on the venue of races (and the particular national laws) the Marlboro branding will be largely subliminal in most countries
( see image ) . The Taiwanese computer company
Acer
is one of their sponsors (until 2008). In December 2005 Vodafone announced that it was withdrawing its sponsorship of Ferrari in favour of title sponsorship of McLaren beginning in 2007.
The Times
said Ferrari were "stunned" by the decision. [9]
Vodafone's position on the car is assumed by
Telecom Italia 's broadband Alice brand.
Other companies sponsoring Scuderia Ferrari include:
Fiat
(car group),
Shell
- Royal Dutch/Shell Group,
Alice ,
Bridgestone ,
AMD ,
Martini ,
Acer , and several others among which
Mubadala
Development Company (an investment company owned by the Emirate of Abu Dhabi) also owner of 5% of Ferrari's stakes as of the 2007 season.
Apart from sponsors, Ferrari have the following companies as official suppliers:
Magnetti Marelli ,
Mahle ,
IIR ,
SKF ,
Europcar ,
Iveco ,
NGK ,
Infineon ,
HN Meccanica ,
Puma ,
Sanbitter ,
Tata ,
Brembo ,
BBS ,
Selex ,
Sabelt ,
TRW Automotive ,
Microsoft
(note: the sponsors/suppliers information is accurate for the 2007 season). Spy Shots: Ferrari F430 CS surfaces again While
Lamborghini prepares its second Superleggera
model, Ferrari is hard at work on its own F430 Challenge Stradale. Spy shots have surfaced of a pair of test mules rallying it up on gravel backroads in preparation for the car's market debut. The new version picks up where the previous 360 CS left off, turning an already finely-tuned instrument of speed into an even sharper one. Whereas Porsche's RS formula calls for reducing unnecessary weight while leaving the engine in tact, Ferrari's prescription is more closely mimicked by its rivals in Sant'Agata by reducing weight while adding power to further optimize the all-important power-to-weight ratio. Sources indicate that the formula has changed a bit from the 360 to 430 CS versions: safety standards now mean no plastic windows, and the center-bolted racing wheels are reported to have given way to a more conventional five-bolt set-up. Weight is reduced through the use of carbon fiber in the doors and rear grille, lightweight magnesium rims, and what is sure to be a stripped interior with racing buckets, amounting to an estimated 220-lb weight savings. Power is expected to top 520 hp, and the brakes are tipped to get an upgrade over the "standard" F430, while soft-compound Pirelli PZero rubber should help the car stick better than the Bridgestones its conventional counterpart is saddled with. After a season spent trimming down and toning up, the F430 Challenge Stradale looks ripe to take on its challengers with explosive speed. Tuner Special: Hephaiss Ferrari 360 Modena TOKYO — With a narrow focus on tweaking such performance-oriented European brands as Ferrari, Lamborghini and Porsche, J.N. Hephaiss is running in some mighty fast company. The fact that JNH is based in Japan makes it an even rarer bird. After tackling the mighty
Porsche GT3
last fall, the designers and engineers at JNH more recently have turned their attention to the
Ferrari 360 Modena . JNH's stock in trade is functional aerodynamics. Starting from the front of the 360 Modena, the tuner has prepared its own wing-shaped canard, which works in harmony with the original venturi tunnel to create optimal downforce at high speeds. New side splitters better control airflow around the body. A split rear diffuser maintains downforce while more efficiently managing the air exiting the car. Just for fun, JNH has installed a user-switchable exhaust system with Silent and Race modes. Next up: a JNH-tuned edition of the F430. Stay tuned for details. What this means to you:
We're still not sure where the name came from — but this Japanese tuning house is turning out some attractive products.
Diposkan oleh
general knowledge
di
17.17
Tidak ada komentar:
Posting Lebih Baru
Beranda
Langganan:
Entri (Atom)
Sony Playstation
The Greatest Console Manufacturer Ever Yet .....
Scuderia Ferrari Logos
The Legendary Standing Horse Team
everything u need for ur live
Arsip Blog
▼
2007
(6)
►
Agustus
(2)
▼
Juli
(4)
Variable valve timing
LamborghiniAutomobili Lamborghini S.p.A., commonly...
Unfortunately for Noah or Frank, Ferrari has gone ...
The History Of Scuderia Ferrari
auto lover's
general knowledge
Lihat profil lengkapku