Xinefoto Photography Blog » Wedding and Family Portrait Photographer in Puerto Vallarta, Mexico and destinations worldwide.
Xinefoto Photography Blog
Wedding and Family Portrait Photographer in Puerto Vallarta, Mexico and destinations worldwide.
Home
Website Archives
February 2011
October 2010
September 2010
August 2010
May 2010
April 2010
March 2010
January 2010
December 2009
May 2009
Categories
Dreams Puerto Vallarta
Family Portrait
La Palapa
Life in Puerto Vallarta
New York City
Paradise Village
Playa del Carmen wedding
Proposal
Puerto Vallarta life
Puerto Vallarta Restaurants
Rehearsal Dinner
Riviera Maya wedding
Slideshows
Travel
Uncategorized
Weddings
Links
Food Gawker
Gertrude's Garret
New York Daily Photo
Bio Facebook Twitter Contact
Subscribe
Form submitted successfully, thank you.
Error submitting form, please try again.
Celebrating Love and Family – Ori and Olga (Four Seasons Wedding; Punta Mita, Mexico)
Monday, January 11, 2010										 Posted in
Family Portrait ,
Slideshows ,
Weddings
Location:
Four Seasons, Punta Mita Mexico
Couple from: North Carolina
It was 2 years ago this week that Ori and Olga had their wedding at the amazing Four Seasons in Punta Mita which is about an hour north of Puerto Vallarta.
It was an interesting photo session because it was a bit of a hybrid wedding and family portrait session.
Olga’s 2 children were adorable and seemed to have a really nice relationship with her new husband Ori.
The Four Seasons is really one of the most impressive resorts I’ve been to.
What’s most striking is the sense of privacy and peacefulness there.
Ori told me they were at full-occupancy, but it mostly felt like we had the whole place to ourselves.
At the same time, the service was outstanding; there was always someone right there, yet unobtrusive, to help out with whatever we needed.
Tags:
destination weddings ,
Four Seasons ,
Punta Mita
by
xine
no comments
add a comment
link to this post
email a friend
Jiminy Cricket
Monday, December 21, 2009										 Posted in
Life in Puerto Vallarta
I was up a little earlier than usual, doing my routine check and watering of my plants, when I noticed this amazing creature on one of my favorite plants (see more info about the
Mimosa
plant).
You can see how in the first image, the light was just starting to reach the balcony so the image has a cooler color cast.  But by the time I took the second image, the sun/lighting was stronger giving things a warmer glow.
I’m really in awe of this little creature.  He really has a pre-historic look, the way some reptiles do.  Or like some creature from a horror movie.  But he doesn’t seem to harm the plant (I found him there again a few days later).  I just don’t want to find him in my adjoining bedroom!
Tags:
insects ,
Puerto Vallarta life
by
xine
no comments
add a comment
link to this post
email a friend
Kerri and Augie (Dreams Wedding Puerto Vallarta)
Wednesday, May 20, 2009										 Posted in
Dreams Puerto Vallarta ,
Slideshows ,
Weddings
Location:
Dreams Resort Puerto Vallarta Mexico
Couple from: Chicago
Kerri and Augie are childhood sweethearts from Chicago who’ve been together for many years.
They got married at Puerto Vallarta’s Dreams Resort in May.
There were about 35 guests so it was a small and intimate gathering of friends and family, made even more special by having a large wedding party with 8 bridesmaids and 10 groomsmen.
The wedding party, both sets of parents, and Augie’s grandma rehearsed a grand entrance that included some fun choreographed dance moves.
By the time the couple officially arrived for the first time as husband and wife, everyone was cheering really loudly; you could feel the excitement in the air.
The bride looked stunning in her lace dress and veil which went perfectly with her dark wavy hair.
The fun and warmth of the families also made this wedding a memorable one.
One of the small touches of beauty at Dream Puerto Vallarta.
As Kerri was getting ready, we heard a knock on the door.
There was nobody there but there was a bottle with a message inside.
Kerri read the message and got all teary — something sweet from Augie.
The most fantastic color of roses I’ve ever seen.
A perfect combination of a classic-style gown and veil yet barefoot on the beach.
Kerri looks radiant as Augie looks at her with love and pride.
Part of the choreographed entrance.
Augie’s mom was very emotional during the mother and son dance.
Made me teary!
Everyone had a great time at the reception.
Tags:
Chicago ,
destination weddings ,
Dreams Resort ,
Puerto Vallarta ,
Puerto Vallarta wedding
by
xine
no comments
add a comment
link to this post
email a friend
Newer posts »
© 2015 Xinefoto Photography Blog
|
ProPhoto Photo Theme
by
NetRivet