Bloody Mary (2007) DVD review
| Examiner.com
Skip to main content
Report this ad
In AXS Entertainment:
Music Movies TV NFL MLB
Facebook Twitter Google Plus Search
Ricky Gervais will return to host the 2016 Golden Globe Awards
AXS Entertainment
Arts & Entertainment
Movies
See also:
bloody mary
Bloody Mary (2007) DVD review
Use your
key for the next article Next:
The Bloody Mary: Cure for the hangover or urban myth?
July 30, 2012
11:27 PM MST
Facebook
Twitter
Pinterest
Linkedin
Google Plus
Comment
Movie Berry
Bloody Mary DVD (2007)
Rating: Star 2 Star Star Star Star
A group of nursing assistants working in a psychiatric hospital attempt to invoke the urban legend of
Bloody Mary . They think it is all a joke until several hospital staff and patients go missing. Eventually, they turn up covered in blood with their eyeballs ripped out of the sockets.
Urban legend Bloody Mary
is free from her mirrored prison to wreak vengeance on anyone who dares say her name.
Pros • Loved the spooky setting where the movie was filmed • Effects weren’t bad for the low budget used by filmmakers • Some decent acting performances by a couple of known faces
Cons • Campy writing that didn’t make much sense • Not enough gore! • Why didn’t we see
Bloody Mary ? Would have loved to see this urban legend 'come to life'
Description • Genre: Horror/Gore/Suspense • Directed by: Richard Valentine • Starring: Jaason Simmons, Amber Borycki, Matt Borlenghi • Rated: Not Rated - Profanity, Violence, Nudity • DVD Release Date: February 6, 2007 • Studio: Echo Bridge Home Entertainment
Bloody Mary (2007) - DVD Review
One reason I was interested in seeing this movie was because of its filming location. The production company Kat Pictures, opted to use
Northern State Mental Hospital in Washington State
(where I’m from). The hospital has long been rumored to house a few spirits since its actual closing in 1973.
Unfortunately, I don’t have much more to say about this film that is positive. The story was just silly – hazing new nursing assistants with the
urban legend of Bloody Mary ? I really would have liked to follow a more creative, believable story line.
A few of the actors gave decent performances, but the character I wanted to actually see more of and didn’t was
Bloody Mary
herself. I’m not a fan of movies that keep their killer/spirit/entity, etc. too mysterious. How boring! Eventually you want to come face to face with your slasher and this movie hardly provided more than a spooky shadow. It was very disappointing to say the least.
Scenes in the film that could have been made into memorable, horrific scenes instead ended up being quite tame. We see a bit of blood splatter here and there, a bloody corpse with no eyes, but no evidence of how any of it happened. The scenes were seemingly cut to shreds. I felt as though I were watching the edited version of this film on the Family Channel.
I honestly don’t recommend checking this one out. I think the behind the scenes footage would probably be more interesting than the film itself.
Suggested
Links
Stake Land Movie Review
The Flesh Eaters (1964) review
Report this content
Share
this article
Facebook
Twitter
Pinterest
Linkedin
Google Plus
Comment
Subscribe
to author
Comments
Sue Gabel Tacoma Horror Movie Examiner Sue Gabel has been a multi-faceted writer (everything from rock music to animals to horror movies) since 1999. In addition to writing for the Examiner, she's written for AXS, USA Today Travel, AZ Central Travel, eHow, CBS Seattle, Daily Glow, Internet Brands Publishing, Made Man, Screen Junkies, Horror.about.com and RealityBug.com. Feel free to connect with her on Twitter (writing_is_life) or email
suegabel.examiner@yahoo.com . Facebook
Twitter
Contact me
Featured
Video
Related
stories
'An Honest Liar' documentary movie review
'Goodnight Mommy' trailer delivers more gripping horror
Paramount brings Terminator: Genisys to Blu-ray and DVD
'Fatal Vows' movie based on Alejandro Henriquez-Jessica Guzman Bronx case
Corey Feldman details abuse, Corey Haim's bisexuality in 'Coreyography' memoir
Arts & Entertainment
highlights
Check out ten of the sexiest male superstars on the country music scene right now Men in country are a dime-a-dozen, so when a male country music star makes a big name for himself, you can’t help but pay attention because they have a special, unique quality that draws people to...
More troubling news: Lamar Odom may have brain damage caused from the kidney dialysis Things continue to worsen for Lamar Odom because his kidneys still aren’t working. Blood tests have confirmed he had cocaine in his blood and the people at the Love Ranch said that Lamar was...
Next
Article
The Bloody Mary: Cure for the hangover or urban myth?
Report this ad
POPULAR
in ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT
Final Jeopardy answer costs contestant $6000 as she unwittingly insults liberals
Joey and Rory cancel shows in the wake of sad news of Joey's terminal cancer
Beatles release newly restored 'A Day in the Life' video from Beatles '1' DVD
Harris Faulkner $5 million hamster lawsuit no game to Hasbro
'Alaska: The Last Frontier': Atz Lee seriously hurt but makes 'not guilty' plea
Duggar family has another friend named in sexual abuse IBLP case
'General Hospital' spoilers: Will Spinelli finally unveil the truth about Jason?
'Days of Our Lives' spoilers: When will Chad wake up from his coma?
Dr. Drew: Jill and Jessa in 'massive denial' over Duggar molestation scandal
Leah Remini talks Scientology, name-checks Tom Cruise in '20/20' interview
Report this ad
TRENDING
on EXAMINER.COM
Final Jeopardy answer costs contestant $6000 as she unwittingly insults liberals
Three pit bulls rescued from Florida storm drain
Heartbroken dog begs his owner not to abandon him at shelter
Stunned passengers watch huge dog roll into first class on airplane
Skeletal dog fights for her life in Phoenix
Undercover sting results in arrest of man who wanted to have sex with animals
D'Arcee Neal: Severely disabled man on plane crawls down aisle
Saudi prince drug smuggling on private plane: Will Saudi prince be beheaded?
Megalodon teeth from mouth of 60-ft shark: Jaw-dropping find on N.C. shore
Florida hunter blows life away of nearly blind, old 'Grandfather Bear'
Report this ad
Report this ad
Facebook
Twitter
Linkedin
Google+
Pinterest
Company Links
About us
OnTopic custom content
The Rowdy
Advertise with us
Sitemap
Examiner.com Entertainment
| AXS Network | © 2006-2015 AXS Digital Group LLC d/b/a
Examiner.com |
Privacy Policy
|
Terms of Use
|
About us
Choose a Topic
Arts & Entertainment Arts & Entertainment Music Movies TV Arts & Exhibits Performing Arts Reality TV Celebrity Pop Culture Animation Young Adult Fiction Books Movie Reviews Comic Books AXS Entertainment AXS Entertainment Music Movies TV Arts & Exhibits Performing Arts NFL NHL MLB NBA Fight Sports Soccer Recreational Sports Reality TV Music Festivals News News Top News International News Strange News Science & Space Politics Elections Environment Extreme Weather Government Crime & Courts Business & Finance Same-Sex Marriage Small Business Stock Market Gun Control Global Warming Personal Finance Democrat Republican Political Buzz Marketing and PR Immigration Life Life Home & Living Pets Style & Fashion Family & Parenting Health & Fitness Education Religion & Spirituality Weight Loss & Dieting Weddings Gardening Home Improvement Relationships Green Living Nutrition Neighborhoods Careers & Workplace Sales & Deals Healthcare Jobs Hobbies Leisure Leisure Food & Drink Travel Spa & Beauty Autos & Motorcycles Bars & Clubs Recipes Drinks Budget Travel DIY Mechanic Auto Reviews Natural Beauty Luxury Travel Makeup Hair & Nails Sports Sports MLB NFL NBA NHL Soccer Fight Sports Recreational Sports College Sports General Sports Fantasy Sports Motorsports Hunting & Fishing Hiking Camping Running Equestrian Water Sports Action Sports Endurance Sports Recreation Tech Tech Gadgets & Tech Video Games Internet Tech Gear Tablets iPhone Google Glass Wearable Tech Xbox One Playstation 4 Photography MMOGs Handheld Games Facebook Anonymous Social Media Consoles Bitcoin Google Twitter Video Log In / Register Write for Us
Search