Most Famous Ghosts
About
Meet our team
Contact
Metrolic
Editorials
Home
World News
U.S. News
Business
Technology
Entertainment
Lifestyle
Science
Environment
Health
Sports
Arts
Most Famous Ghosts
Written by
admin
Posted in:
Science
no comments
Do you like this story?
Ghosts are considered to be everywhere and nowhere depending on how you see things. They can become very famous especially since many people claim to have seen them. There are lots of movies and books that feature
ghosts . They can represent a source of horror and a source of inspiration. These are the most popular ghosts.
10.
Slimer
Slimer is the green ghost from the Ghostbusters movie. He is rude, he is green and obnoxious, and he can spew slime. He is more of a comical relief than a source of horror. Kids seemed to love him and as a result he got his own TV series called The Real Ghostbusters. In this Saturday morning cartoon he teamed up with the Ghostbusters in order to catch the more threatening ghosts. He had a huge appetite and he used to burp now and then which made most of the situations very funny.
9.
The Murdered Peddler
In 1840s in Hydesville, New York a young peddler went to the home of Mr. and Mrs. Bell in order to sell his housewares. He was invited in the home of the two and he stayed there for various days. The maid was dismissed from business but she was rehired a week later. The peddler was gone when she returned, but many of his items were still there, which raised the
suspicion
of the maid. She started to experience ghostly sensations and then she saw the ghost of the peddler who apparently was murdered by the two. That is the story of Maggie and Katie Fox, two sisters who were the founders of Spiritualism. They later admitted that the whole story was a hoax and that they did not have the means of communicating with the dead. However, the religion managed to survive and it is still used nowadays.
8.
The Ghost of Charles Dickens
A Christmas Carol written by
Charles Dickens
is one of his most famous works. The book tells the story of Ebenezer Scrooge, a very mean man who is visited during the Christmas Eve by three ghosts: the ghost of Christmas Past, Present, and Yet to Come. Each of the ghosts help him understand various things and help him turn into a better person.
7.
The Ghostly Hitchhiker
The stories about the hitchhiker who vanishes are always indirect, meaning that the one who tells it has not seen the ghost himself, but he has a friend who has an uncle whose friend of… you get the picture. It is said that a couple drove home during one night when they saw a barefoot girl wearing a red dress. They took the girl in the car and when they asked her where she lives she pointed towards a farm. When they arrived there the girl disappeared from the car. When they went to the farm and asked the woman who answered the door, the woman told them that the girl was dead for years now and she showed them the dress she was wearing.
6.
Bloody Mary, Candyman, and others
There are many stories that say that if you want to see a ghost you have to go to the bathroom during the night at 12:00 o’clock, with all the lights from the house turned off, and say the name of the ghost in front of the mirror three times. Say
Bloody Mary
three times and the ghost of the woman who killed her children will appear and it will haunt you. Many people have tried without any result to summon the ghost, while many fled the bathroom after the second time they mentioned her name.
5.
Casper
Not all ghosts are dangerous; in fact there are ghosts that are friendly. The friendliest of them all is Casper. He tried not to scare people and he wanted to be friends with them. He appeared in numerous TV shows and he also had his own Hollywood movie. Way to go Casper!
4.
The Drury Lane Ghost
One of the most famous theaters from the Covent Gardens district is Drury Lane and the reason behind its success are the ghosts which apparently hunt the place. The most famous of them all is the Man in Grey who carries a sword with him.
3.
The Bell Witch
The events which happened at John Bell’s Tennessee farm between 1817 and 1821 represent the classic American ghost stories. It is said that Bell, the owner of the farm shot a strange animal but the animal disappeared by the time he went to get it. It is said that weeks afterwards a ghost started to attack the house, physically harming the people inside of it. This went on for years until
Andrew Jackson ; the man who would later become the seventh president of the United States of America hunted it down. It is believed that this is nothing but a story, as the events were not real.
2.
The Flying Dutchman
The Flying Dutchman is the most famous non-human ghost. The Flying Dutchman is in fact a merchant ship who is haunting the sea. It is said that the ship is haunted and that the ones who encounter it on sea will have to suffer. Apparently the crew members asked God to sink their ship because the Dutch captain refused to take her to the safety of the harbors. The ship was featured in the Pirates of the Caribbean film.
1.
King Hamlet
The most famous ghost of them all is King Hamlet and it plays a crucial role in the play created by William Shakespeare. The
ghost
appears during the night and it tells Hamlet that he has been murdered by his brother Claudius. He tells Hamlet to avenge his death. Hamlet is the main character of the play, but without the ghost there would not be too much of a story in the first place.
BOO!
11
Did you like it? Share it! Tweet
Related Articles Stephen King: Best Books That Inspired Movies
Maybe you wondered from where so much imagination? How can a man write more than two or three books every year? And most of them turned out to be huge successes, the majority being screened into major movie projects.<-200x200 Small […] Travel Guides: United Kingdom Of Great Britain And Northern Ireland
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland is an independent state in Western Europe.<-300x250 Medium Rectangle->
It consists of four traditional countries: England, Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland and several […] Top 10: Worst U.S. Politicians
Every country has its rotten apples in matters of politicians and the Unites States has not escaped this “curse” either. <-300x250 Medium Rectangle->
Although some of the following politicians were great political figures […] Pirates Of The Caribbean- Revealing The Unknown
We all like pirate movies since we were children. If we watch cartoons and see old movies with pirates will know that they have a dangerous life, commandeering a ship   of their own with a crew and drink rum. Basically the life of a […] Top 10 Most Haunted Hotels In America
As strange as it may sound, ghosts or the idea of having a building haunted, tends to attract large crowds of people and several hotels have already tasted (or not) the success of receiving an increased number of guests just because […] 5 Movies to see in 2010
No matter if there are financial problems or issues of this nature, new movies are always going to be launched and people are going to be there at their premieres. Remember what was just a few weeks ago at Twilight new movie release. […] Kim Cattrall: Problems On the Set of Sex And The City
In the recent debates regarding fashion, too skinny models and the existence of only size zero pieces in sale when it comes to designer clothing lines, another public declaration comes in the same direction: not all women are size zero […] Reese Witherspoon Is Engaged
Another day, another celebrity engagement is announced. And the latest star to make the happy news public is Reese Witherspoon. The engagement news was confirmed by the actress’s rep.<-200x200 Small Square->
So, Reese […]
« previous post
next post »
Comments are closed.
Loading...
Today’s Most Popular
Abu Dhabi, The Richest City In The World Susan Boyle's Autobiography: The Woman I Was Born To Be Top Alien Encounter Stories Romanians Are On The Verge Of Finding The Cure For Cancer New Planet Earth Found?
Find us on Facebook
Recent Comments
Bogdan : My friend,
I would avoid considering some theories as bei
cours de cuisine Strasbourg : Its like you learn my mind! You appear to grasp a lot about
NIDHIN A S : ENJOY THE LAST TIMES OF YOURS BY A HUMAN BEING WHO LOVES THE
Barnes : Satan (Allah) will call Jesus loud in the end.
Muthusi : Why do those aliens show themselves only on whitelands,why h
9637567952 : a
Nancy : I am reading the Dulce book, and it made me think of some of
Dr. Sanathdeva Murutenge : Now I am really getting tired of reading junk science of Ste
Faithful : I see the math is ounce and ton but china is using Metro ton
garba ali : helo
very
body
i love
this
country
is
very
nice
an
Keep In Touch
subscribe to
RSS
become a fan on
Facebook
Smartphone Powered
Did you know that
Metrolic
can be viewed from popular touch-based smartphones like iPhone TM , iPod touch TM , Android TM , Palm TM
Pre/Pixi, and BlackBerry Storm TM ?
© 2010 Metrolic. All rights reserved |
Meet our team
|
Contact us
|
Archive
|
About