Skeptics With a Sense of Humor: June 2012
Skeptics With a Sense of Humor
For February: "Quiet: the Power of Introverts in a World that Can't Stop Talking," by Susan Cain.
Saturday, June 30, 2012
Get Out of Jail Free!
Wanna get out of debt? Beat traffic tickets? Access your top secret social security account? Become a Sovereign Citizen! It's easy!
This site
will tell you how.
This site
will sell you a book about it. Sovereign Citizenship is the ultimate in gaming the system--fill out the right forms, use the right terminology, and voila, you're a nation unto yourself and not beholden to anyone. But it only works in the U.S. Sorry, Canadians, you're stuck paying taxes and traffic tickets like a sucker.
Yeah. You can imagine
how seriously
the U.S. government takes all this. You can try it if you want, but don't pay anyone money to tell you how--you'll end up with a bunch of useless books and no secret government fortune to pay for them. And if you try the 'Sovereign Citizen' trick on the IRS, they'll laugh in your face and then possibly
put you in jail
for tax fraud.
As a movement, Sovereign Citizenship is one of those extreme right wing things* where you don't need nobody tellin' you what to do. This apparently includes schools and legal scholars--they all seem to agree that the Sovereign Citizens' reading of the constitution and the
Universal Commercial Code
is, um, wrong. And
Weird . And
complicated . But mostly wrong. There's a hefty dose of conspiracy involved--when you read up on it you see weird references to the government using us (the U.S. labor force) as collateral for its debts, the idea that the whole country's legal system is secretly based on admiralty law, and claims that Native American tribes don't pay taxes or need driver's licenses. Actual Native Americans know that, sadly,
they totally do
have to pay taxes. Even if they're part of one of those rich casino-owning tribes.  The 'labor force as collateral' thing is where they get the Secret Bank Account claims. Even if the government does have a Secret Account in your name, there is no combination of forms and lawsuits that would put that money in your hands. That part of the movement is a total scam. Just know that.
The scam part is slightly separate from the political movement part, which is actually considered kind of
dangerous
by those
in the know . It has some
scary
white supremacist
roots, but it seems to have grown past those and become a more general right wing thing. There are some violent associations there, though. Paranoia and anti-government sentiment, combined with the mistaken idea that traffic laws don't apply to Sovereign Citizens, have meant
bad news for cops
on occasion.
You can probably tell by now that the theory behind this is a bit too convoluted to debunk in a quick-ish blog post. But you can probably also tell that whatever valid points this movement might have are a)buried in conspiracy bullshit and scamminess and b)far from getting you off the grid and under the government's radar, claiming Sovereign Citizenship will probably make them suspicious instead. And in case it wasn't clear the first several times I said it, pretty much nothing gets you out of taxes and traffic tickets.
*Ever notice how much the extreme right and the extreme left have in common? Sovereign Citizenship is a lot like
anarchism , but, you know, with more guns and fewer
berets .
Posted by
Jo
at
9:12 PM
No comments:
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share to Pinterest
Labels:
conspiracy ,
scams
Friday, June 29, 2012
Analogies are Like . . .
. . . a
box of chocolates . They look all tasty and make your mouth water, but some of those chocolates taste kind of gross or have a weird coconut texture, and a couple are laced with hazelnuts because the chocolatiers are, in fact, trying to kill you. Or me, anyway. Maybe hazelnuts don't bother you. But false analogies should, because they're just as bad for your brain as hazelnuts are for my throat.
Pow! English major! Queen of analogies! I could do this all day!
But should I? Probably not. Analogies are awesome and incredibly useful for explaining stuff and making it stick in your head, but they're also tricky business. Some analogies are
clearly false
(playing the
Hitler card
is almost always a false analogy) and some are practically perfect (mine), but most are somewhere in between.
Some analogies are great as far as they go, but only go so far. Comparing our brains to computers is one of these--it's a super useful comparison (it simplifies some things and suggests good lines of research) but it's not perfect. Brains are not, in fact, computers, and getting too stuck on the analogy can make us forget that and miss
important differences .
Some analogies are totally apt, but don't strike the right
emotional tone . To steal from that link, " She grew on him like she was a colony of E. Coli, and he was room-temperature Canadian beef" is great from a logical standpoint, awful in terms of mood-setting.
A lot of analogies, though, are mixed bags in terms of tone and logic. To take one of the bitchier examples, this analogy has been
floating
around the
internet :
"What a country…
The food stamp program, part of the Department of Agriculture, is pleased to be distributing the greatest amount of food stamps ever.
Meanwhile, the National Park Service asks us to “please do not feed the animals” because the animals may grow dependent and not learn to take care of themselves."
When the liberal part of me saw this, it jumped around screaming 'False! False! False! And mean!' because the liberal part of me is a Bad Skeptic. Thankfully, the rest of me is a pretty Good Skeptic who made me start really thinking.  Of course, the tone is designed to pump up certain conservative types--comparing welfare clients to bears makes you feel better about cutting programs. And it's the tone that offends liberals so much. But what about the content?
Are people like bears in this case? Maybe. On the one hand, humans have huge culture and educational differences separating us from bears. We also make a lot more long-term plans than bears. This is a down side to the analogy--human food stamp users may have plans for employment and/or education that would get them off of food stamps. They're certainly capable of those plans in a way that bears aren't.  On the other hand, humans and bears might both become dependent on easy sources of food--if that's the case, food stamps might be a terrible way to help humans. If food stamps make humans dependent, perhaps some other help would better support peoples' long-term independence plans.
As usual, one analogy means pretty much nothing for your argument. It highlights some features of a situation we might should look at, but (especially in this case) only rigorous research will tell us whether the comparison is an accurate one or not.
That's right--analogies are a whole lot like
anecdotes . Interesting, but utterly not to be trusted. Just like unlabeled chocolates.
Posted by
Jo
at
9:03 AM
No comments:
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share to Pinterest
Labels:
critical thinking ,
logic
Thursday, June 28, 2012
Save the Soil!
Wait, is that a real thing? Does the soil need saving? According to
these people , it totally does. According to them, conventional agriculture has sucked all the healthy minerals right out of the dirt and replaced them with . . . nothing. Fertilizer. Pesticides. Whatever it is, according to the link, today's fruits and veggies are not only nutritionally useless but actively poisonous.
Oh. My. God. What are we gonna do?
Organic farming, apparently. And lots of nutritional supplements.
Wait, what? You mean that whole article was just a very long ad for supplement pills? Well, yeah, but
soil depletion
has been kind of a
buzz word
for a while, so there must be
something
to it, right? Yeah, maybe, sorta, but (spoiler alert) veggies are not
poisoning
you .
The whole idea of soil depletion seems to have started with two studies. A  British study  found that 1980s fruits and veggies were (in several cases) lower in minerals than their corresponding 1930s fruits and veggies. A
U.S. study
showed some nutrients in decline, some staying steady, and a few going up. Neither study really blames soil depletion--someone else made that leap.**  Further studies
haven't really borne out the 'radical soil depletion' idea, either. It's not a totally impossible notion,*** but it's not at all clear that it's actually happening, either.
It's not even clear that veggies are getting less mineralicious with the passing years. Maybe they are, and maybe they're not. I mean, people are still studying veggies and finding health benefits--they're not doing those studies with 1930s vegetables.* So there must still be a lot of vitamin and mineral goodness left. The studies above seem to have been misquoted a lot; the circulating misquotes may be the source of the "veggies are useless, you need pills" idea.
Even if there is a decline, there could be other explanations. One of the
leading ideas
is that for the last few decades, we've been choosing plant varieties based on high yield and size instead of nutrition. Turns out the biggest, juiciest apple might not be the healthiest. Oops. Now that people are getting all concerned about nutrition and real food and variety, heirloom veggies are making a comeback and it's possible that nutrient density will, too.
Organic farming may or may not use better varieties of plants, and may or may not be
more nutritious
and
sustainable . Depends on what those farmers are doing, exactly, and how. So eat organic food, if that's what you're into. But don't get sucked into the
black hole
of supplements--real food is usually cheaper and definitely
better for you .
*At least, I hope they're not. Not even twinkies can stay tasty for eight decades.
**No, I don't know who. Probably a supplement seller.
***A lot of 'save the soil' types claim that plants need only three things to grow--nitrogen, phosphorus, and water--so that's all that commercial fertilizer replaces. Which is why all the other minerals are long gone--they got used up by previous veggies and never replaced. If the Wikipedia entry on
fertilizer
is any indication, that's just not right.
Posted by
Jo
at
12:34 PM
No comments:
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share to Pinterest
Labels:
health squatch ,
scams
Wednesday, June 27, 2012
Behold, the Humble Mustard Plaster!
Let's talk home remedies, shall we?* Wait, that's too broad. Let's narrow it down and just talk about mustard as a home remedy. Mustard is tasty, and it's a great example of the pros and cons of time honored tradition in medicine.
Mustard has been used as a cure-all for thousands of years.
According
to the
internet
it was used by the ancient Greeks, and even today it hasn't entirely died out as a treatment for colds, bronchitis, asthma, arthritis, and sundry other aches and pains. Dang, if it's lasted that long, there must be something to it, right? Except . . .  We already know that appeal to age is a
red herring . I mean, we've been using wheels for thousands of years because they kick ass, we've been killing each other for thousands of years because we're assholes. So clearly, "we've always done it" isn't enough reason to keep doing it.
It's supposed to work like this: you smash up some mustard seeds (usually
black mustard , not to be confused with
Indian mustard
or
white mustard **) and mix them with flour and water, or possibly eggwhite, and occasionally some other herbs or spices--it's one of those 'everyone has their own recipe' things--and spread it on some cloth. Then you put the cloth on your chest (for colds and lung troubles) or whatever body part hurts (for arthritis and aches. duh.). And it's supposed to make you feel better. Why? There are a couple of theories.
First, mustard plasters do tend to produce
irritating
fumes that might make your nose run and whatnot, which might clear up a stuffy head. Second, mustard is a
rubefascient  (ooh, vocabulary!)--it makes your skin red by dilating your capillaries wherever the plaster is sitting. Some people think the extra blood flow helps your body
flush toxins . Or . . . all that irritation and redness gives you
something new
to think about, effectively distracting you from your original pain. This, by the way, is also the theory behind stuff like Ben Gay and
Icy Hot .
Does it work? Nobody knows. When you look it up from the modern science angle you get a whole lot of
'not enough information'
and
'not scientifically verified.'   Oh, and you also get a lot of side effect warnings. Remember the irritating fumes? In overly strong doses they feel like tear gas. And if you leave a mustard plaster on too long it'll cause blisters and
burns . Oops. So . . . even if it was proven effective, you might want to choose something safer, ya know? Because yikes! Mustard burns look awful.
Which, by the way, is a point against the whole 'natural things are safer' idea. But there was a shining, crazy moment (okay, the 19th century is more than a moment) where this stuff was held up as
cutting edge medicine , right along with bloodletting and induced vomiting. Back then, college educated doctors didn't have much more science in their heads than your grandma, and these remedies clearly did
something,
and for a while there it seemed vitally important that a treatment
make something happen , whether or not that something was actually helpful or not.
Sorry, that was a bit off topic; I'm just fascinated by that whole era of heroic medicine. It was usually the opposite of helpful, but it was so impressively unhelpful that people flocked to the doctors who specialized in these treatments. And I now realize that I do have a point to this--alternative medicine works like that--it's usually unhelpful, but it's unhelpful in a way that makes you feel good about yourself, so it's become big business. But back in the heroic medicine days, Heroic mustard plasters were competing against equally unhelpful home-made mustard plasters, and today Herbalist mustard plasters are competing against antibiotics and Tylenol and a host of other scientifically verified remedies. It's just no contest. Or it shouldn't be, anyway. Definitely not with mustard. It's still delicious on a sandwich, though.
*This is strep-related only in the vaguest way. I actually feel much better now (Yay!). But I promise to take my antibiotics until they're all gone.
**I know, right? I always thought mustard came in Dijon, Deli, and yellow.
Posted by
Jo
at
2:53 PM
1 comment:
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share to Pinterest
Labels:
health squatch
Monday, June 25, 2012
Root Canals. With Footnotes.
First, it's strep! That's right, I have strep throat! It sucks, but I'm taking super-fat antibiotic pills which will soon have me right as rain.
Second, let's talk teeth. Why? I don't know, it just came to me as I was surfing the net in a streppy daze. I could do a sweeping post about biological dentistry and how you probably shouldn't trust it, but I'm not going to.
Quackwatch
did it already. Instead I'm gonna discuss the pros and cons of root canals.
You probably know a zillion people who've had this done (I know I do), but I'll explain anyway, mostly because it's actually
kinda neat . Let's say you take a hockey puck to the mouth* and your tooth gets injured and then totally infected. Like, inside, where the pulp is (the pulp is made of blood vessels and nerves and stuff). Apparently, once your tooth is done growing you don't really need that pulp part. Who knew, right? So, instead of yanking the whole tooth, your average dentist** will drill into it and scrape all that pulp right out and fill the space with
gutta-percha . After that, they generally stick a
crown
on it--a lot of dentists can do it all in one visit these days.
The idea behind root canals is that having your own teeth is better than having fake teeth, so they take this more conservative measure instead of pulling your whole tooth out. And most of the time it works great, but occasionally it doesn't. Sometimes they don't get all the bacteria out and your tooth still hurts, and sometimes your newly refurbished tooth breaks. At this point, sometimes they can redo your root canal and sometimes they have to just yank the tooth.
Seein' as how root canals don't always work out, you might ask your dentist to just skip straight to pulling the tooth out. And that's a valid lifestyle choice. A lot of alternative dentists, however, take it way farther than that, claiming that root canals are
dangerous  in general. Mostly because they're convinced there's always bacteria left in your tooth, slowly poisoning you and possibly causing Lou Gehrig's Disease. They vote for extraction all the way.
But only if you can't fix it with food. Yeah, a lot of alternative**** dentists are into food cures. And I'm all for eating well, but when your tooth is rotting from the inside it's probably too late for food to fix it. And as a side note,
this guy
seems to think food would cure his impacted teeth? Which is totally weird, because
impaction
is where your tooth (usually a wisdom tooth) doesn't grow in right and gets stuck in your gums or your jawbone. Which is just . . . I can see how good childhood nutrition might help your teeth grow in the first place, but once it's stuck I don't see what diet changes could do to un-stick it.
I want to go back to the "root canals are dangerous" idea, though. The 'dangerous' link up there if for the Weston A. Price foundation, and it seems pretty typical, which makes sense when you realize that
Price
is pretty much the father of alternative dentistry. Maybe I'll do a whole post on him someday, but for now you should know that he did a lot of research in the early 1900s and had some good ideas, but dentistry and its working theories have changed a lot since his day. The Weston A. Price Foundation has nothing to do with him personally and everything to do with resurrecting and expanding his old ideas on nutrition and dentistry.
The link makes a big deal about how the American Dental Association claims root canals are safe without providing any evidence. I don't really know where they get that idea--the ADA's website has handy dandy
links
where you can look at all sorts of
root canal research . Granted, none of the studies is titled "Proof of Root Canal Safety." Instead there's a whole lot of 'method' this and 'outcome' that and you actually have to look at some studies. But it's hard to claim "ADA Conspiracy" when they have an entire research database for you to browse while making your dentistry decisions.
The weirdest part, though, is the whole
ALS  (Lou Gehrig's Disease)
thing. First, what is it even doing in an article on root canals when the correlation is to
high-copper fillings
that have nothing to do with root canals?***** Second, they mention this huge jump in ALS cases the year high-copper amalgam fillings came out, but I
can't find
any other reference to this jump. Which is weird--if diagnoses increased 14-fold in one year as the article's numbers claim, you'd think I'd find references to that. And the article doesn't mention any reason to believe the spike in ALS cases (if there was one) and the fillings are in any way related. It just shows you some graphs, says fillings did it, and goes right back to root canals. It's just weird.
Okay, look. I'm tired and streppy and the rest of the article is mostly "see? bacteria!" and some of it is based on super old research by Price so I don't even know if that stuff is reliable or applicable to today's root canals. And much of it totally ignores the fact that root canals are done on infected teeth that are messing up your life anyway, so yeah, if they don't get all the germs out that sucks and you'll need more dental work. But I don't see how that makes root canals inherently evil. And I'm unconvinced by their shaky links to autoimmune diseases. And I'm annoyed that there are no links for easy access, but at least there are sources cited at the bottom of the article. None of them seems to be about that weird ALS digression, though. I still don't know what that's about but I'm pretty sure it's total squatch.
As far as I can tell, your regular, ADA-approved dentist isn't trying to kill you with root canals. And no one's proved that food kills bacteria better than antiseptics and antibiotics. And if the Weston A. Price article is any indication, alternative dentistry is pretty squatchy. Feel free to have your regular dentist skip straight to tooth extraction, if that's what you're into, but the root canals you already have probably aren't the cause of your various illnesses. If they're not broken, don't "fix" them.
Good night, and happy dentistry to everyone!
*You're way more likely to get infected tooth pulp from a cavity gone wild, but I wouldn't want to accuse y'all of bad oral hygiene or skipping dental visits.
**Hopefully your dentist is well above average, but you get the point, right?
***Only, they never say 'yank the tooth' because it sounds unprofessional.
****Also known as holistic dentists and biological dentists. (I get the 'holistic' thing, but I don't get how regular dentists would be unbiological.)
*****Amalgam fillings are a whole different kettle of fish. They're probably
not dangerous , but the move toward
other materials
is probably rendering the whole controversy even more pointless than it already was.
Posted by
Jo
at
8:43 PM
No comments:
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share to Pinterest
Labels:
fake science ,
health squatch
Sunday, June 24, 2012
Beans, Beans, Good for your Heart . . .
I've been stricken by a horrible virus that's crippling my brain, mostly by way of a high-ish fever and constant headache.
So all I have today is a link to the most thorough
discussion and debunking
of The China Study and related near-vegan diets I've ever read. I found it while looking for something almost entirely unrelated; it's super long (I'm only halfway through because of my brain being broken) but full of interesting facts and discussion. I can't vouch for anything else this lady's written 'cause I haven't read it, but I'm really enjoying this post. If you've ever wondered about this type of diet, this is a great discussion of the evidence (and often lack thereof) for their claims.
Posted by
Jo
at
5:52 PM
2 comments:
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share to Pinterest
Labels:
health squatch ,
links and games
Friday, June 22, 2012
See? Math Really is Sexy!
Okay, people. It's time for a little math. While cruising the
Cracked
website, as I soooo often do,* I came across this bit of
mathematical awesomeness . I will so totally explain, but the link has diagrams if you're interested.
If you're anything like me (even a little bit), you' probably heard the "statistic" that men, on average, have two or three times as many sex partners as women.** The numbers change depending on who you're reading, but men always outscore women for number of sexual partners. Reporters usually mention the idea that people are over- or under-reporting their numbers, and then tell you dudes probably just have more partners than ladies.
Except that this is mathematically impossible. Think about it--every hetero coupling requires one dude and one lady. So the averages have to come out the same, no matter what combination you use. Let's say
Ron Jeremy
is throwing off the average for dudes by doin' his thing with 4000 ladies. That's okay, because those 4000 ladies are each doing their own small part to bring up the women's average so they match. This even works for orgies and whatnot--I ran the idea by Mr. Skeptic to double check.
The only way to get these mismatched averages without lying is for straight dudes to get a lot of action with other straight dudes while the ladies sit home and watch movies. And that would be news, indeed. As far as we know, though, everybody's just fudging their numbers to meet cultural expectations. Guys inflate their numbers to look all manly and gals bring the numbers down to avoid looking slutty. And, of course, we all perpetuate those expectations by reporting these mismatched averages as real and important scientific fact instead of a real and important evidence of cultural double standards.
Oops. Apparently math really
is
important. Who knew?***
*It probably shows. My writing influences break down roughly as follows: 30% actual literary people (most notably
Roddy Doyle
and
Haruki Murakami ), 30% Cracked lists, 30% scholarly science/math/philosophy writers and podcasters, 8%
Maria Bamford , 2%
Kathleen Madigan . Which explains a lot, doesn't it?
**This statistic applies to heteros only. Gay statistics tend to show that gay men have more partners, on average, than other gay men. No, wait, maybe lesbians have more partners than other lesbians. Something like that. Whatever it is, I'm sure it makes just as much sense as the hetero stats.
***We probably all knew about that slutty, slutty double standard, though.
Posted by
Jo
at
1:09 PM
2 comments:
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share to Pinterest
Labels:
how science works ,
urban legends
Thursday, June 21, 2012
Put Yourself in My Shoes
Let's say you're dating a guy who turns out to be a
serial killer . Which
famously   sort of happened , so don't roll your eyes at me. Once his face is plastered all over the news, you'll realize you knew he was evil all along (which is also
hindsight bias , by the way). Even when the news tells you he was depressed, and his mom did an awful job raising him, and a bunch of horrible things happened that conspired to make him crazy enough to kill people, you'll probably stick with the "he's evil" explanation.
On the other hand, if you're the serial killer, forced to explain your hobby to your lady and the rest of the world, you'll have a truckload of excuses for your behavior. You did it for a million reasons, and amazingly enough, not one of those reasons is about being a bad person. Suddenly you're the
Talented Mr. Ripley : "whatever you do, however terrible, however hurtful, it all makes sense, doesn't it, in your head. You never meet anybody that thinks they're a bad person."
In the first case, you're guilty of the
Fundamental Attribution Error . Which, granted, isn't nearly as bad as being guilty of serial murder. But it's still wrong. When we take time to think about it, we know most things are a combination of personality and situation. But when we don't take the time, or when emotions are running high, we tend to zero in on personality and forget all about situation. We do this when awesome things happen, too. Which is probably why we take celebrity advice when we shouldn't--we assume people get famous solely by being awesome, when there's usually a hefty dose of luck and good connections involved as well.
In the second case, you're guilty of
self-serving bias . When things go right, it's because you're beautiful (handsome?) and talented and committed and what-have-you, but when things go wrong it's certainly not your fault. Noooooo, then it's 100% situation and 0% you.
These (mostly the FAE) are also why putting yourself in
someone else's shoes
can go so horribly awry. The idea there is great, and actually really useful. If you really try to imagine yourself in your ex-boyfriend's situation you can really notice situational factors you'd missed and get a better understanding into why he went so horribly wrong. You might still throw him in jail, but that understanding might help turn other budding
Dexters
down a different path. But if you
half-ass it  and stop with imagining why you'd never do those horrible things, you'll never understand anything good.
The good news is that we can and do get beyond these biases all the time, at least partially. We try to own up to our mistakes and work on our bad qualities. We try to give people the benefit of the doubt. We sometimes actively look for hidden causes for peoples' behavior and try to not get too carried away with our own awesomeness. With these biases, practice can go a long way. So keep on plugging away and it will totally pay off in extra compassion and insight and stuff.
It's nice to see a bias or two that we humans aren't utterly failing to overcome. Way to go, human race!
Posted by
Jo
at
8:20 PM
No comments:
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share to Pinterest
Labels:
critical thinking
Wednesday, June 20, 2012
Sex at Dawn: the Update
I find myself in the weird position of agreeing with the authors' ideas about current western society (mostly) but thinking their biological theory is pretty much crap.  Their biological arguments are pretty squatchy, and two of their best supported biological ideas don't really support their theory.
First they present the evidence that female sexuality is very fluid and adaptable to culture and situation. I think they're saying that means women biologically want to have sex with everyone (and possibly) bonobos but we *think* we're into monogamy because of our culture. Which might be true. Or we might have evolved to be interested in any situation that seems good for supporting our offspring. Or maybe there's a totally different explanation--I've seen a lot of this before and everyone has a different theory.
Second, they present a lot of evidence that dudes like sexual variety. And it's pretty solid. But it's also explained by both their theory AND the standard model, so I'm not sure why they spend so much time on it.
And they never really address sexual jealousy, which seems to be a really big thing and something any good sex theory needs to deal with. I mean, they talk about it some, but mostly they hand-wave it as a western cultural thing and claim it doesn't exist among foragers. Except that we know from my
first post
that they're pretty weak in their understanding of these peoples' societies.
They conclude with the idea that we should experiment with open marriage, polyamory, acceptance of affairs, and letting teens experiment with sex without getting all uptight about it. Much of which I might could get behind. But you can get behind those things without agreeing with their squatchy theory. In fact, you can get behind these things while still agreeing with some form of the standard model (especially the more modern serial monogamish versions) or while waiting for a totally different and better model to emerge.
I pretty much wish their whole book was just an expansion on their concluding bits. Would have been more interesting and possibly better supported. Overall, I would have preferred to skip this book and just stick to reading
Savage Love .
Posted by
Jo
at
7:35 AM
2 comments:
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share to Pinterest
Labels:
books
Tuesday, June 19, 2012
Sex at Dawn
I'm halfway through
"Sex at Dawn"
and I'm having a lot of doubts.
According to the authors, humans are meant to be promiscuous and fluid, with multiple short term mates. Also according to them, you haven't heard about it because no one else in the scientific world has the stones (ovaries?) to
face this
obvious truth. According to critics, you haven't heard about it because it's kind of a fringe theory. And the more I poke around for the facts, the more I agree with the critics.
First, they seem to be attacking and oldish notion of "mating for life" instead of more current notions of serial monogamy (or monogamish relataionships). Second, they spend a lot of time in the beginning talking about how depressing the Standard Model is and how terrible and conservative their opponents arguments are instead of really laying out their own ideas. Sometimes that kind of bluster is a sign of a weak theory, so it's an extra reason to poke around for further information and potential rebuttals.
And I found some. A few just point out that it
isn't
as
simple
as the authors like to think, but one
Scholarly Dude  (that's a PDF and kind of long but worth reading) has some serious problems with their research and presentation. And Wikipedia agrees with at least some of Mr. Dude's criticisms. Mr. Dude  mostly says that Ryan and Jetha aren't accurately representing the foraging societies they so heavily base their argument on. And this is where I start to agree:
I just finished the bit about the Mosuo people; the authors say these people have total sexual freedom and don't care at all about paternity (they also say the Mosuo are a matriarchy). Mr. Dude says this is only partially true--they have a ton of sexual freedom but also have long-term relationships, plus they have a kind of patrilineal ruling class and therefore care about paternity at least sometimes. So I looked to Wikipedia for a deciding vote-- they're
going
with the Dude on this one.
For a second (and totally smaller) example, Mr. Dude says the authors misrepresent Inuit wife swapping as a super common, freewheeling type of custom. Mr. Dude points out that of all the peoples the authors mention, the Inuit are the only real foragers (the rest, I gather, mix foraging with varying levels of cultivation). He says wife swapping and lending are generally arranged by husbands without necessarily consulting the wives. The Straight Dope says it's
more complicated
than both sides make it out to be, but his understanding comes down mostly against the loose, non-jealous picture the authors are painting.
So. I'm not even done with the book, so this isn't exactly a book review. It's more of a combo-pack of venting and working through pros and cons as I read. So just know that--if I change my mind by the end or have further awesome thoughts, I'll let everyone know. But for now: it's pretty clear that the authors want me to think free-form non-monogamy is biologically natural, but what I'm really getting is that human sexual expression is very, very cultural--a lot of the practices they say support their biological case seem just as culturally determined as our western practices are. So I'm not saying they're totally wrong, but this should probably be considered more "food for thought" than "groundbreaking new theory."
Also, at one point the authors blame everyone else's theories on confirmation bias (see? It's everywhere!). I find it deeply ironic that their reading of anthropology seems to suffer the same problem.
Posted by
Jo
at
7:59 AM
2 comments:
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share to Pinterest
Labels:
books
Monday, June 18, 2012
Dry Brushing--What the Hell?!
Today I learned about the exciting world of
dry brushing , wherein you rub a loofah or natural bristle brush all over your dry skin. Apparently it's all the rage in spas and stuff; if I were more pampered I would have known about this ages ago. And I've been missing a lot--according to dry brushing authorities, it'll exfoliate my skin and buff it to a high gloss or whatever) cure my cellulite*, boost my immune system, and help me flush toxins and acids through my skin. Which sounds really gross.
Good thing that last part
isn't really a thing . You'll be glad to know you're not constantly weeping toxins through your pores. Also, boosting your immune
system isn't a real thing , either. It's more about balance (which your body mostly does on its own) than boosting. Also, there's
no actual evidence
it'll fix your cellulite. Apparently it feels cool, though, and it probably does
rub off dead skin cells
(which isn't strictly necessary but might look nice as long as you don't overdo it). As squatchy treatments go, it's pretty useless but also not dangerous. So bonus points there.
But the most amazing thing I learned today was that famous
squatch doctor
Andrew Weil
thinks dry brushing is
bunk .** Just goes to show anyone can surprise you with a flash of sound thinking.
*Not that I have any . . .
**While he's debunking dry brushing, he recommends taking
milk thistle
for liver support. I looked it up and he might not be entirely off the mark. But he's probably not entirely on it either.
Posted by
Jo
at
7:19 PM
No comments:
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share to Pinterest
Labels:
health squatch
Sunday, June 17, 2012
Feminist Digression and Science Speculation
I'm just gonna warn ya right up front that I don't have a point here. I've just been seeing variations of
this
on my Facebook feed and it brought up tangential thoughts I want to get down. The "this" I'm referring to is
Anita Sarkeesian's
proposed video series on women in video games. Which is a fair enough thing to study, right? I wouldn't give her $6000 dollars for it, but that's probably because I'm jealous that I didn't think of it first. Would anyone like to give me $6000 to continue blogging about sasquatch and fake cancer cures? No? Is it because you already know I'd do it for free? I should have talked to Anita before starting this up.
But really, I've seen a couple of
Feminist Frequency
videos, and they're fine. But they're not my style--I like things more funny and free form. When I want info, I'd rather read it. (Which is probably why I read so many issues of Bitch magazine without realizing they had a video blog. Oops.) So I probably wouldn't give this gal money. And I might not even watch the videos (though I'd totally read transcripts of them). But I wouldn't freak out and send her death threats or deface her Wikipedia page. WTF? Really, people? Way to take the high road, folks.
And now for the various speculations. First, some of defenders of the video game status quo are guilty of various forms of the
naturalistic fallacy  and its cousin, the
is-ought problem : "but it's what guys want" and "that's just the way it is, it's not worth talking about" being prime examples. Sometimes we're dumb enough to look around the world and assume because it
is
a certain way, that's how it
should
be. It's natural and stuff. What guys presumably want is partly natural and partly cultural. Some guys like Modern Warfare, some guys like My Little Ponies. You could make bank with a
bronies
video game. I'm just sayin'.
Second, having just written a post on
confirmation bias
has made me see it everywhere (which makes sense, when you think about it). Like, how will Sarkeesian control for this in her proposed research? It will be awfully hard, considering her goal is to come out with a video series on sexism in video games. I mean, if that's your goal, confirmation bias will make sure you find it in spades.* Will she have other people play the games and make ratings? Will she do it herself but have a super-strict system in place? It might be best not to have feminists to the research at all (to cut down on the bias) but who else would want to do it? And would non-feminists just be biased in the other direction?
How objective is she even trying to be? I mean, if she's not even trying to be scientific about it none of these questions apply. But she does present as a rational and non-sensationalistic blogger so she totally might care about objectivity. Research design is hard, especially for a video blogger on a shoestring budget.
Um, like I said, there's not really a point to this. Except that people shouldn't send death threats, even through the internet, and research design is especially complicated with emotional issues. Oh, and confirmation bias is still totally a thing.
*I'm not saying the sexism isn't there, I'm just saying this bias is also there.
Posted by
Jo
at
4:25 PM
No comments:
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share to Pinterest
Labels:
thoughts
Saturday, June 16, 2012
Ghost Post
I pretty much don't believe in ghosts. But more importantly, I don't really want to. I'm perfectly content
not being haunted , thank you very much. So my familiarity with the ghost hunting business was mostly through urban legends and the occasional episode of
Ghost Hunters
or
Most Haunted
or whatever. I just couldn't be arsed to research it because to me, ghosts are for
scaring people
at
Halloween .
And then I started hearing "scientific" theories bandied about on these ghost shows, along with
fancy-pants equipment . And I still didn't care about ghosts. But I do care about this weird intersection of real and fake science ghost hunting seems to sit on.
Like . . . it looks like ghost hunters routinely bring recording equipment, video cameras, and EMF meters to haunted sites--these do wonders for ferreting out ghosts and gathering evidence. Except that no one has actually proven these things detect ghosts. I mean, they detect weird stuff, but we've all seen a lot of weird stuff that isn't ghosts, right?
The main awesomeness of microphones is
Electronic Voice Phenomena
(EVPs). You set one up in a quiet room and record some white noise, and when you play it back later you hear creepy messages. Except no one's really proven those are ghosts--there's a better than average chance you're
kidding yourself .* (There's also a chance you're recording actual people and/or radios in the background--not everyone is a careful ghost hunter.) Same with the video equipment, except that comes with bonus lens flares and (if you're kickin' it old school) double exposures. So sometimes you get
really
cool pictures , but they're probably not of actual ghosts.
The awesomeness of
EMF meters
is the science-y veneer they give to your adventures. And they're pretty cheap, and who doesn't love gadgets, right?
Their use
is based on some anecdotes and a vague idea that ghost emit or disturb electromagnetic fields. But no one's ever bothered to prove that--basic research is a snooze-fest compared to visiting haunted houses, so the field is sorely lacking in those very important foundational theories that real science is based on.
But here's the thing--all this fake science has actually spawned some real science. It ain't the most
solid stuff
in the world, but it's there, and it's science, and it's interesting. The most famous
examples
are Richard Wiseman's examinations of haunted sites in England and Vic Tandy's haunted infrasound. Wiseman asked visitors to some haunted sites to write down whether and where people had unusual experiences--he sensibly wanted to know if there was any consistency to peoples' reports. When people did make consistent reports about a particular room, he went and took measurements (including EMF measurements). But instead of jumping straight on the ghost train, he guessed that certain environmental factors (like poor lighting, high ceilings, unusually strong magnetic fields) were causing the weirdness. And Tandy figured out, pretty much accidentally, that
infrasound
can give you the wiggins and possibly vibrate your eyeballs enough to make you see weird shit. Which totally explains certain ghost sightings.
And that's how ghost hunting should work. When we talked about
confirmation bias , we learned that it makes you ask the wrong questions. Instead of trying to prove ghosts, you should probably focus on eliminating all the other possibilities first. Which is what Wiseman and Tandy and various
skeptical ghost hunters
are doing. And maybe, after you've eliminated all the other possibilities, you'll find that a few hauntings are actually caused by ghosts.** And all of those hauntings will probably have some clear features in common, which will give you a much better working theory of what ghost are actually like . . . that, my friends, would make ghost hunting a real science. But until that happens, most of it is just people wandering around in the dark whispering "what was that?"
*Just like we were kidding ourselves about backwards satanic messages in the '80's. Oh, wait.
Those were real.  But EVPs probably aren't.
**I'm still betting against the reality of ghosts. But I'm totally biased by the fact that ghosts scare me. Of course, what scares me is that we don't know anything about them (and whether they want to poke my brain with their incorporeal ghost fingers). So if ghost hunting got all scientific and actually proved something about ghosts' nature, I'd probably be way less scared and therefore way more okay with their possible existence. Go science!
Posted by
Jo
at
9:10 PM
No comments:
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share to Pinterest
Labels:
fake science ,
paranormality ,
real science
Thursday, June 14, 2012
Myth Confirmed!
So.
Confirmation bias .* Have I mentioned that confirmation bias is, like, one of the top ways to be wrong? 'Cause it is. It kicks your ass in several ways:
First, it makes you do bad research. Let's say you hear a creepy noise in your attic, and you swear it was a ghost. So you comb  through your house's history looking for gruesome murders, you invite ghost hunters to your house . . . all your questions are geared toward proving your ghost theory. Except it wasn't a ghost, it was a bat,** and now there are little bat babies up there and maybe you'd know that if you'd been asking the right questions. Confirmation bias made you say "what kind of ghost?" instead of "Let's check out the other possibilities before jumping on the ghost train." That's right, bias made you ask the wrong questions, which made you go gallivanting off in the wrong research direction, and now that you spent all that money getting rid of the ghosts you have none left over for the bats. Oops.
Second, it makes you twist stuff around to support your side. This is why everyone and their dog can find amazing studies to support their squatch while totally rejecting studies that disprove it. Once you're convinced that noise is a ghost, all pro-ghost research starts to become compelling and well done, while "it's just a bat" arguments will suddenly seem weak and sad. Because something deep in our brains gets off on being right all the time, and does its damnedest to defend whatever we think we're right about. Even if that leads to bat infestations.
Third, it makes you remember things wrong. Even if you try really hard to stay emotionally neutral and study both sides of the ghost vs. bat debate, if you're pro-ghost deep down, you'll remember the pro-ghost information better than the pro-bat information. That part of your brain reeeeeaaaally wants you to be right, no matter what the facts are.
All that confirmation bias leads to a host of silliness, like . . .
1. It might possibly make you an extremist. It's not a slam dunk, but it's totally possible. I mean, you start out slightly in favor of ghosts, which makes you mostly look at pro-ghost books and websites and remember pro-ghost stuff really well, and you end up a true believer. This might be more likely with really emotional issues, like politics and health squatch. But you could certainly try it with ghosts.
2. It's what makes you believe in stuff even when you find out it's not true. Even if you look in the attic yourself and clearly see a bat family instead of a ghost, you might still believe in the ghost. Hopefully just a little bit, but you also might convince yourself you have ghost bats just to save your theory.
3. It makes you give too much weight to your first impression. Your brain seems to assume that if something's first, it must be the most important. If only your first thought had been "bat!" instead of "ghost!" you wouldn't be in this mess.
4. It makes you see correlations where there aren't any. This is because confirmation bias makes you focus on positive results instead of negative ones. Let's say you think your ghost's (bat's?) name is Jeff. So you keep saying the name and then listening for weird noises--every time you get a 'response' you write it down, and pretty soon you have an impressive tally. But you forgot to note the 137 times (out of 150) that nothing happened. Your ghost's name is Dr. Acula, but now you think it's Jeff. All because of confirmation bias.
So, um, this is really hard to avoid, and it's a big reason good scientists try to take themselves entirely out of the equation when they test stuff. The rest of us just have to be aware and try reeeeaaaally hard to squash that bias down when we notice it. You get (slightly) better with practice.
And yes, I am researching a ghost post. Does it show?
*I could give you a lot of links, but Wikipedia did a really good job on this one and I'm feeling lazy. Meh. I'm a bad blogger, so sue me. (Don't really sue me.)
**This really happened to me, but the bat skittered out of the attic and across my living room before having babies. Also, I was renting so I didn't have to pay a guy to check for more.
Posted by
Jo
at
7:28 PM
No comments:
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share to Pinterest
Labels:
critical thinking
Wednesday, June 13, 2012
Vaccination 7: Pertussis is Awful
If you've learned anything from my blog so far, it's that we humans are just awful at
weighing risks
and making rational decisions.
Hold that thought. I'll come back around in a minute.
Way back when I started this blog, one of the first things I wrote about was
vaccines . Inspired by
this article ,  I focused on what exactly vaccines protect us from, disease-wise, and whether that protection is worth the risk. After that I'm pretty much in favor of vaccines, and I learned a lot of neat (and disgusting) stuff.
Since we naturally respond to emotion-tugging
anecdotes
more than statistics and logic (see? told you I'd come back around!), we in heavily vaccinated (and therefore not so measles-y) areas probably exaggerate the risks of vaccination and minimize the horribleness of almost-extinct diseases. You know, because we see sad little autistic kids and hear celebrities blame vaccines, but we don't see a lot of kids with whooping cough or diptheria, so our emotions are triggered more by the anti-vaccine side of the force and we misunderstand the real risks.
Apparently the Australian government has been fighting anecdotes with anecdotes--they've been trying to get people on board with
whooping cough
vaccine by reminding people how babies totally die from the disease. And
this couple
is helping by telling people how much they wish they'd vaccinated their baby. And this morning I saw
this article , which talks about a lady who
hates vaccines  who accuses that couple (Toni and David McCaffery) of getting paid to tell their story.
Which is a fallacious appeal to motive. They totally deny being paid for their story, but even if they got a million dollars, it doesn't change the fact that their baby actually factually died of whooping cough. They have plenty of good reasons to support vaccination, and focusing on money is a cheap dodge. Sorry, but it is. The same lady's accusation that the vaccine campaign relies on anecdotes is also a cheap dodge. The campaign uses anecdotes to get peoples' attention, that's true, but their evidence for vaccines is far from anecdotal. On the other hand, the evidence Wilyman cites--seeing an increase in chronic illnesses over her years of teaching--is totally anecdotal. She saw that and decided all on her lonesome that vaccines were the cause--she may be researching it in a real way now, but it's hard to know how much she's controlling for that initial anecdotal bias. So . . . making cheap swipes at your opponents instead of laying out your own arguments makes you look incredibly squatchy. Just so you know.
I'm not opposed to fighting anti-vaccine anecdotes with pro-vaccine anecdotes, as long as there's solid research behind them ( and there is ). But clearly that approach is open to misrepresentation. Which sucks. Almost as much as whooping cough.
Posted by
Jo
at
9:38 AM
No comments:
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share to Pinterest
Labels:
critical thinking ,
vaccination
Tuesday, June 12, 2012
Divination Speculation
So. The Skeptic's Dictionary lists
83 types
of divination. The Paranormal Encyclopedia lists
even more . Wow, right? I mean, sure, we've all seen numerology and palmistry, tarot ( stick figure tarot 's my favorite), crystal balls, maybe we have the
I Ching app
on our phones . . . but I guess literally anything will do in a pinch. Live in the woods? Try
throwing an axe
at a tree and see where it sticks. More of a homebody? Try pouring
candle wax
into cold water and see what the shapes tell you. (Or buy a lava lamp--probably works just as well and it looks good when you're stoned. Or so I'm told . . .) But if you really want to know your future, you probably ought to sacrifice some
sort of animal  and look at its guts--entrails are really where it's at.
If one of these actually told your future, it would have slowly beaten out all the other, fakier ones, right? (Unless it's the entrails. I don't want to know my future if there are entrails involved, and I'm probably not alone on that one.) I couldn't find a shred of evidence that any of these actually tell your future. But humanity seems bent on finding a method that works.
Historically speaking, it looks like divination was more of a ritual thing that you'd do with friends or family. Or your whole tribe--if you can get everyone all whipped up and mentally ripe, a little
throw of the bones
or peek at the entrails would lend extra authority to your big decision to go to war or move across town (and by town I mean wilderness, of course).*
These days, most of us don't sacrifice animals with our tribe or anything, so for a lot of us divination has kind of melded into personal fortune telling. So, you know, less animal sacrifice and more psychic hotlines. Divination persists partly because of wishful thinking and anxiety, and partly because it helps people get decisions made.
One idea
put forth by actual psychologists is that sometimes it doesn't matter what you decide as long as you pick something and get moving. And all these methods definitely help you make a decision of some sort. And having a psychic or an interesting pattern of
tea leaves
backing your play gives you confidence, which also helps you get your ass in gear.
Another
popular idea
(presented in various ways, some more squatchy than others) is that these rituals don't predict the future so much as help you figure out what you really want, deep down. Which might be true. I mean, sure, you could just try to relax and think things through to make a decision, but that's not very awesome or mystical. And going along with that "make a decision, any decision" model, casting some bones or reading some cards might help you see things in a new way or focus on things you hadn't before. So that's not completely unhelpful. I mean, candles are cheaper than therapy, right? If
those birds
fly toward 'yes' and you wish they hadn't, you've now found out what you really want.
Of course, this idea usually comes with varying amounts of mysticism. And Carl Jung gets thrown around a lot, which always confuses things.** So maybe you're getting in touch with your inner self, or maybe the universe, or whatever. But even the universe (or whatever) can't tell your future for sure. I don't hate the idea of divination as entertainment (remember the lava lamps?) or as a cheap tool for making easy decisions (what should I make for dinner? Let's check the crisper for portents!). But I wouldn't, like, count on it for anything important if I were you.
*This and most of the theories that follow are purely speculation--I tried to find studies on the psychology of divination, but mostly just found squatch instead of science. So I'm just gonna throw out some avenues of research here, and I'm sure science will get right on that for me.
** Jung's ideas
were a weird mix of actual science, interesting philosophy, and a heavy dose of mystical mumbo jumbo masquerading as science and philosophy. So when psychics and New Age people start quoting him, you have to take it with a grain of salt.
Posted by
Jo
at
7:46 PM
No comments:
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share to Pinterest
Labels:
paranormality
Monday, June 11, 2012
With a Little Help From My Friends
So, having friends makes you an asshole. Why?
Group polarization , that's why. Whatever stupid opinions you hold become stronger and more extreme when your friends are there to back you up--without your buddies you'd be way more reasonable. I didn't want to be the one to tell you, but after talking it over with my own friends I felt I really had to say something.
Okay, maybe groups aren't all bad. I mean, if you're into saving homeless puppies or telling people how awesome they are, being with
puppy-loving friends
might inspire you to save even more puppies than you would on your own initiative (or tell even more people how awesome they are). But if you're a
he-man woman hater , joining the club will only make you worse.
And sometimes it's not a matter of being better or worse, just more extreme. Like, let's say you're kinda sorta basically a Democrat (Republicans, insert your party here). Left to your own devices, you might like a Democrat in this position, a Republican in that one, a Libertarian in another . . . it would all depend on the candidate and the issue, right? But put you in a convention hall with thousands of other Democrats, and suddenly you're "Democrats all the way, baby!" That, my friends, is group polarization. And the down side here is that polarized Democrats and polarized Republicans tend to talk past each other and refuse to compromise because they're so convinced their side is perfect. Which is probably bad and stuff.
There are a couple of major theories on this. One depends on our
deep-seated need
to fit in and yet also be unique. In a group, a great way to do this is to agree with everyone, but to be a leader by being a little more extreme about whatever you agree with. So, if you're churchy, you might become a little more Jesusy than everyone else. You know, to stand out in a way everyone there approves of. And then other church-goers would feel pressure to match your Jesus-ness, and the whole group moves toward Jesus. Which might be good and might be bad, depending on which version of Jesus you're working with--charity Jesus would be preferable to smitin' Jesus. For me, at least.
Another theory is
more
information-based . So let's go back to the Democrat thing for this one. You're at the convention, agreeing with everyone, and maybe you're just caught up in that social thing. Or maybe you're hearing a lot of compelling arguments for Democrat-ness you've never thought of before. Maybe all those candidates and pundits really know their stuff, and they know how to make that stuff convincing. In that case, your sudden fervor is a combo-pack of group polarization and actually valid information. (Once again, this works the same for Republicans. Much as I hate to admit it, Republicans have some good arguments, too. Just don't tell my friends I said that.)
On the other hand, group polarization works way better in groups where
everyone agrees
on some basic things. Let's say you're trying to get everyone to hate Star Wars.* That will be way easier on the Star Trek Lovers forum than on Pinterest.** But Pinterest is a great place to stir up hatred between the knitters and the sewers (the knitters always win--those needles can really do some damage). And older,
more established
groups are harder to polarize. Possibly because fewer members are trying to prove themselves and everyone has a better understanding of the issues you're all there to discuss--once those are set, it's harder to shift things around.
So maybe having friends doesn't make you an asshole; maybe it's only having
new
friends that does it. So don't make friends. Or only make friends with puppy-lovers. Or make sure you have lots of different friends so they won't all pull you in the same wrong direction at once. Or be true to yourself. I guess there's no moral to this one. But group polarization is a thing, and if you find yourself suddenly pissed off (or really excited) about things you haven't been that pissed off (or excited) about before, it might be happening to you. The end.
*I know, that's impossible in real life. Or it was before the prequels came out, anyway.
**For the super tech-y among you (mostly just Mr. Skeptic), imagine having a Vim vs. Emacs debate on Pinterest. Trust me, it won't go anywhere. But on certain computer geek forums, ouch! Let the flame war begin!
Posted by
Jo
at
7:24 PM
2 comments:
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share to Pinterest
Labels:
critical thinking ,
real science
Sunday, June 10, 2012
Flim-Flam!
For June we read James Randi's
"Flim-Flam!"
and had a great discussion about it. Randi definitely leans hard on squatch and pseudoscience, and you can't help but admire his thoroughness and dedication to showing it for what it is. I especially loved his detailed descriptions of how many "psychic" feats are performed; sometimes there's nothing better than a magician to show you the tricks of the psychic trade.
This book was written a few decades ago, so a few of the issues he covers have faded with time. (I'd never even heard of biorhythms before reading this.) But some, like astrology and scientology, are still going strong. A few, like pseudoscientific alternative medicine, have grown and branched out since this book was published. Overall, even if specific bits of squatch are out of date, the tales of skeptic adventure still held my interest and the insider's view of tricks and cheats was fascinating. It's a long book, but an easy read and a classic for skeptics. I'd also recommend it for the skeptic dabbler--if you've wondered about ESP or contacting the dead, but wanted a hardnosed scientific look before committing, this is a good book to try.
Join us next month for Robert Wright's
"The Moral Animal,"
which discusses evolutionary biology. Should be an interesting read.
Posted by
Jo
at
7:03 PM
No comments:
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share to Pinterest
Labels:
books
Saturday, June 9, 2012
Reductio ad Hitlerum
Um, you should know up front that some of these links lead to actually horrible websites. Mostly because that's what you get when you google Hitler, but also because of the ironic fact that so many people playing the Hitler card are actually incredibly hateful their own selves. Dammit. The Hitler cats are safe to click on, though. Cats with little 'stache markings are adorable and funny.
You've probably heard of
Godwin's Law
of Nazi Analogies--the longer an internet argument gets, the more likely you are to see one. And, if you're anything like me,* you've seen a lot of
people
skip straight
to
playing the Hitler card
without even working up to it. But you haven't seen
Hitler cats , and you totally should.
Don't get me wrong, sometimes
Nazi analogies
are totally appropriate. If people are actual Nazis or fascists, or actually committing genocide, you're absolutely right to play the Hitler card. But the
rest of the time , it's probably a bit much. And when I say "a bit much" I really mean it's a combo of Red Herring and fallacious Guilt by Association. Effective but oh, so wrong!
In case you didn't read my
post on red herrings
(which mostly linked to Metallica videos), they're arguments that sound relevant but totally aren't. The fact that Hitler
studied art , or
loved dogs , or had a
Charlie Chaplin
mustache is almost never relevant to the question at hand. When you go there, it's not really because your opponent is Hitleresque. It's because you've run out of actual arguments. It's an ever-so-slightly more sophisticated version of "Oh yeah, well you're a jerk!" Which rightly makes you look like a 5th grader.**
The
guilt by association
is obvious, right? No one (except white supremacists and the occasional mass murderer) wants to be Hitler's buddy. Sure, before he killed all those people he might have been okay. A little intense, but not a bad guy. But now we know better, and we all stay as far away from that shit as possible.
But here's the thing: in the middle of all that megalomania and homicidal-ness there was a lot of normality. Nazis ate, slept, brushed their perfect blonde hair, played with their little blonde kids, adopted adorable blonde doggies and kitties (some of which had 'staches) . . . .  Which means you can point at just about anything and find a Nazi who was into it. So it's not enough to look at an issue and see whether Nazis were into it--you also have to look at how many regular, sane people are into it and whether it inexorably leads to genocide or not.
You may have noticed
every
political
movement
and
candidate
ever
compared
to
Hitler , and realistically, only a few of those
people
and
movements
are genuinely Hitleresque. The same is true of the Stalin comparisons and the Osama Bin Laden comparisons. You really can think someone's a bad candidate without comparing them to embodiments of evil. It is, in fact, that ability that keeps democracy from becoming a literal bloodbath.
So please, only play the Hitler card when it really applies. The rest of the time, you richly deserve to lose your argument just for going there.
*Who are we kidding? You're probably nothing like me. But you've probably still seen this.
**Hey, at least you look like a 5th grader who pays attention in class. Or watches the History Channel. You're such a nerd.
Posted by
Jo
at
8:46 PM
No comments:
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share to Pinterest
Labels:
logic
Wednesday, June 6, 2012
Bloody Mary (No, Not the Drink)
When I was young enough to be scared of the dark, my brother told me about the sign of the cross. You know, you cross your index fingers in front of your face . . . that way, when the monsters jump out you're ready to flick 'em in the eye and run away. Neat trick, right? But it doesn't work on ghosts, Big Brother. Your fingers just go right through them. He didn't have a trick for them.
And that's my childhood in a nutshell. I wasn't too afraid of burglars or serial killers 'cause there were statistics on them and I could strategize and prepare for the rare occasion I might meet one. But ghosts and demons? No one had any hard data, which means no one had a realistic plan for keeping them from devouring my soul, which scared me spitless.
Which means I was way too scared to play games like Bloody Mary, and I wouldn't actually touch the ouija board at sleepovers. No evil spirit was gonna get me! And then, sometime in my early college years, I realized evil spirits were bullshit and learned to
love
horror
movies . And then, sometime after my college years, I learned that the supernatural part was still bullshit but the psychology was kind of totally real.
Bloody Mary
is a real thing, in that staring at yourself for too long in dim light can make you see
weird things , like crazy
facial distortions
or the faces of other people. And
ouija boards
run not on spiritual energy, but
urban legends
and the
idiomotor effect . The ouija board as we know it today is just a board game, but it's based on real fake
spiritualist stuff . The idiomotor effect is also what causes table tipping during seances. Well, that and fakery. Lots of times it's
fakery . Soooo much fakery.
Even ghosts themselves might have
some science
behind them. Well, not so much actual ghosts as a grab bag of optical illusions, misheard noises, and other totally non-scary stuff that we think are ghosts. Which is actually way more interesting (to me, anyway) than plain old ghost stories. Plus, I can strategize and prepare for weird noises and optical illusions. And for monsters, well, I'm passing along that flicking thing to my kids. Just in case.
Posted by
Jo
at
7:25 PM
No comments:
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share to Pinterest
Labels:
paranormality ,
urban legends
Tuesday, June 5, 2012
A Woman's World Indeed
I only subscribe to three magazines--Skeptic, the Skeptical Inquirer, and the Vegetarian Times. That's right, all I do is skept and cook. And I'm okay with how boring that makes me, because it also makes me look smart. And healthy. But sometimes, while I'm standing in the check-out line* I like to glance at the magazine rack and see what I'm missing out on. And boy, have I missed a lot! Just one Woman's World magazine ($1.79) has shown me the secrets to just about everything:
1. It cured my non-existent thyroid problems with vitamins, veggies, and
Ayurvedic
ashwaganda ! There's a study! Of course they don't tell us who did the study or what exactly it said. But if it wasn't top notch I'm sure they wouldn't mention it.
2. It showed me watermelon works just like Viagra because of its high arginine levels. Which is
totally wrong --watermelon is high in citrulline, which your body converts to arginine. And it probably won't cure your erectile dysfunction. :(  God, I just can't think of a classy ED joke to go here. I guess this is why they say
women aren't funny . Dammit.
3. Moving on to the nuts, then. (Hah! I'm back!) Apparently my nut allergies are raising my blood pressure and making me stressed out--if only I could stomach 9 walnuts a day my problems would be solved. Amazingly, there might be something to this. I could tell you if the damn Penn State article would load. Here.
You try it .
4. I can also lower my cholesterol without drugs. All I need to do is eat half a cup of soybeans, half a cup of blueberries, 2 to 4 ounces of avocadoes (bad idea, I'm allergic to those, too) and 2 ounces of sesame seeds daily! With maybe some fish oil and ground flax seeds on the side. Those would work in a salad, right?
I'm noticing a theme here, and that theme is "food cures everything!" It's a wonder ancient peoples ever got sick! There's a whole article on the magical powers of herbs and spices, too. (Put some basil on that salad--apparently it works better than tylenol.) And there's probably some kind of evidence for most of these things, but the 'eat all these foods' message kind of clashes with the miracle diet featured on the cover. Which is, by the way . . .
5.
Resveratrol ! The answer to all your problems. It's found in wine, but science has saved you all that drunken fun and fatness and put it right into pill form. According to Woman's World, you can eat all that food-medicine and still be skinny because
resveratrol
is way better than portion control or exercise!** Which is a huge relief because . . .
6. The most reliable and realistic part of the magazine is the adorable Oreo creations. They have
ladybugs !
Oh wait, I forgot my horoscope! That's pretty reliable, too, right? It says in August I should take a risk in love, but that an older loved one may need more of my time. I'm pretty sure that means I should have an affair (it says Mr. Right will be walking into my life around then) but also be extra nice to Mr. Skeptic so he continues to support me. But my horoscope also says I'll make extra cash from a sideline later this month, which probably means I need to monetize my blog to recoup the two bucks I spent on Woman's World.
Um, yeah. Now you know why I read nerd magazines. And cooking magazines--I just want to make tasty things and eat them; if I get sick I'll just take a pill like the good lord
Crom
intended.***
*I was buying three family-sized boxes of tissues all for myself. Allergy season sucks.
**But probably not. As usual, it's all very preliminary and confusing, and will probably not be the miracle all us fatty fat fatties are hoping for.
***Crom also intends that I act more like Conan the Barbarian, so I should probably take up pillaging one of these days.
Posted by
Jo
at
8:04 PM
No comments:
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share to Pinterest
Labels:
entertainment ,
health squatch
Sunday, June 3, 2012
That's Awesome, But . . .
So . . . using my friends and family as
a guide, I can just assume that almost everyone in the world is from
the U.S., Japan, or India. Which also means most of the world is
either white or Asian. And middle class. And a hefty percentage of
the world's population have graduate degrees in some something
not-that-mathy and listen to either
Indie music
or acoustic
singer-songwriters .
What's that you say? My friends aren't
representative of the general population? Pshaw! Who knows my friends
better, me or you? I should know whether they're a good sample or
not, shouldn't I? Are you calling me a liar? Well, I never! I'll show
you!
Except I totally can't, because you're
totally right. Turns out a large percentage of the world actually
likes math. Who knew? It also turns out there's a whole lot of people
in Africa I've never even met! I'd better get on that.
And that right there is why anecdotes
make such shitty evidence. At least when it comes to scientific
stuff. Stories about you and your friends are horrendously unreliable
as evidence because there's no way to tell for sure
how typical
your friends'
experiences are. Or whether you're
remembering
things right .
And since our brains latch onto
vivid stories
like a lamprey to a
shark (check out my super nerdy analogy, folks!) we should probably
assume that what we remember is NOT typical. Because reality is
always more boring than the awesome stories we tell.
Like, no one's saying your buddy's
lying about seeing a ghost. But anyone can be wrong, you know? And
it's not like he had an impartial observer there checking for
alternate explanations and making sure he wasn't drunker or more
asleep than he thought he was . . .
Here's the thing—we accept anecdotes
as evidence all the time. If your super-good buddy says he saw a
ghost or your aunt says a psychic “totally read her future” you
probably just smile and nod. Because often, it's not that important.
And sometimes stories from friends are really useful—if all your
friends have bad stories to tell about your new boyfriend, you should
probably listen. But we hold science to a higher standard because
science really should apply to everyone. If I'm gonna take a
medication, I want it tested on as many different people as possible,
not just a few of my doctor's friends.
Stories are awesome, and sometimes
they're the perfect illustration of whatever point we're making. But
when it comes to science, nothing beats a
solidly designed
study.
Except two or more
solidly designed
studies that agree with the first
one . . . well, you get the idea. Hopefully.
Posted by
Jo
at
8:59 PM
No comments:
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share to Pinterest
Labels:
critical thinking
Skeptic Sunday--Oxygen at Home
Before we get together to make awesome baking soda volcanoes, let's talk about oxygen and carbon dioxide.
If you're little:
Animals breathe in oxygen and breathe out carbon dioxide. Plants breathe in carbon dioxide and breathe out oxygen. Let's think of some plants and animals and talk about what they breathe. Bonus points (and stickers) for bringing a leaf or flower to Skeptic Sunday and telling us what it breathes.
Oxygen cycle
here ,
here
and
here .
If you're bigger:
Photosynthesis
is
pretty complicated , but it's also pretty interesting. If you're the ambitious type (and possibly if you own a microscope) you can follow that first link for some cool experiments.
Also, you bigger kids are old enough to know that
baking soda volcanoes
don't work the way
real volcanoes
work. I, myself, have some volcano experience--I was 4 years old when
Mt. St. Helens
blew ash all over our town. If you want to look up some
volcano stories , I'd love to hear them. Bonus points and stickers could be had in exchange for some good volcano information.
Extra Super Bonus Points:
There are
several myths
around the world about volcanoes. If you learn one we'll all be super impressed and you can tell all your friends when we get together. Yay!
Here's the one about Mt. St. Helens to get you started:
Si Yett, meaning woman, is the Yakima Indian name for Mount St. Helens. According to legend, Si Yett was a beautiful white maiden placed on earth by the Great Spirit to protect the Bridge of the Gods on the Columbia River from the battling brothers, Mount Adams and Mount Hood.
Posted by
Jo
at
7:03 PM
No comments:
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share to Pinterest
Labels:
skeptic sunday
Newer Posts
Older Posts
Home
Subscribe to:
Posts (Atom)
Science is Life
look at the birdies
A Few Good Sites
Our Book Club
Science-Based Medicine
Skeptoid Podcasts and Transcripts
Snopes
The Straight Dope
Utah Coalition of Reason
Search This Blog
Loading...
Labels
health squatch
real science
books
urban legends
thoughts
critical thinking
scams
entertainment
logic
paranormality
fake science
links and games
how science works
philosophy
reaching the masses
conspiracy
skeptic sunday
civics
vaccination
celebrity squatch
intro
Follow by Email
Subscribe To
Posts
Atom
Posts
All Comments
Atom
All Comments
Blog Archive
►
2014
(11)
►
March
(2)
►
February
(4)
►
January
(5)
►
2013
(70)
►
December
(4)
►
November
(4)
►
October
(5)
►
September
(4)
►
August
(4)
►
July
(5)
►
June
(4)
►
May
(7)
►
April
(5)
►
March
(9)
►
February
(8)
►
January
(11)
▼
2012
(195)
►
December
(15)
►
November
(12)
►
October
(16)
►
September
(15)
►
August
(16)
►
July
(21)
▼
June
(24)
Get Out of Jail Free!
Analogies are Like . . .
Save the Soil!
Behold, the Humble Mustard Plaster!
Root Canals. With Footnotes.
Beans, Beans, Good for your Heart . . .
See? Math Really is Sexy!
Put Yourself in My Shoes
Sex at Dawn: the Update
Sex at Dawn
Dry Brushing--What the Hell?!
Feminist Digression and Science Speculation
Ghost Post
Myth Confirmed!
Vaccination 7: Pertussis is Awful
Divination Speculation
With a Little Help From My Friends
Flim-Flam!
Reductio ad Hitlerum
Bloody Mary (No, Not the Drink)
A Woman's World Indeed
That's Awesome, But . . .
Skeptic Sunday--Oxygen at Home
Cavalcade of Articles
►
May
(21)
►
April
(16)
►
March
(19)
►
February
(10)
►
January
(10)
►
2011
(32)
►
December
(9)
►
November
(10)
►
October
(9)
►
September
(4)
Simple template. Template images by
enot-poloskun . Powered by
Blogger .