“Candyman” Review (Spoilers) | Ben Harmelin
Ben Harmelin
Home About Contact Me
“Candyman” Review (Spoilers)
Posted by
bcharmelin
on March 23, 2012 ·
3 Comments
“Biggie Smalls…Biggie Smalls…Biggie Smalls.” Sorry, I couldn’t help myself. No, the 1992 horror film
Candyman
has nothing to do with Biggie Smalls, or the
South Park
episode “Hell on Earth 2006.” However, they both draw inspiration from the same urban myth, that of
Bloody Mary .
After watching
Hellraiser , I found myself still itching for a good scare. Perhaps it’s because I’ve only recently learned to appreciate horror films. However, I must admit, I am partial to certain kinds of horror films. Specifically, I enjoy those that invoke psychological terror. I’m not a fan of over-the-top grizzly gore. It isn’t scary, it’s just nauseating. Not to mention a “cheap” form of horror if you ask me. One that requires little imagination or skill to execute on the writer and director’s part. That being said,
Candyman
does have its share of gory scenes, but if you ask me, that’s not the movie’s focus.
The story follows Helen Lyle (Virginia Madsen), a grad student at the University of Illinois in Chicago, writing her thesis on local myths and legends. When she begins her research, it’s strictly academic. Her demeanor is clearly that of a skeptic. She scoffs at the notion that urban myths could hold any truth. She boldly (stupidly?) follows a lead to the dangerous
Cabrini-Green
housing projects on Chicago’s Near North Side. It is said that the Candyman, a notorious local legend, lives in these projects.
The Forbidden,
the Clive Barker short story that the movie was based on, takes place in England, not the U.S. I think switching the location for the film was an intelligent move. In my opinion, housing projects have become somewhat synonymous with lawlessness and danger. In some cases, Cabrini-Green being one of them, it was a place that even the cops were afraid to go. This adds another layer of fear and anxiety to the scenario. Helen is not only contending with the legend of the Candyman, whose existence is up for debate, but she must deal with the very real life threat of gangs in the projects. So, I guess this makes her doubly bold (or again, stupid).
But wait, that’s not all. She’s a white girl, going into the projects, in many instances in the movie, by herself. So let’s add it all up. Candyman, projects, white girl. Hold on, if I did the math right, that makes her 4x bold or stupid. If I’m giving off the impression that the movie suffers from this leap of logic, forgive me. Despite the fact that her actions were outrageous, I still somehow believed in her character, and I think that’s testament to Virginia Madsen’s acting, which was exceptional. After
Hellraiser , I was expecting more wooden acting, but quite to my surprise, on the contrary, the acting was good for a cult horror film, let alone any film.
Back to the choice of locale.
Candyman
raises some interesting points about class and racial divide in America. They aren’t really tackled in a subtle manner, but I still applaud the film for trying to do more than just entertain. According to Helen’s interviewees, there have been a string of gruesome murders in the projects recently that have received little attention outside of that community. One such story involves the murder and castration of a little boy in a public restroom. By introducing the audience to the myth of the Candyman, and showing us the evidence of his capacity for evil, the director, Bernard Rose, slowly builds fear of the myth within us, long before Helen must confront it. I have to admit, the build up was a bit slow in the beginning, rife with “boo” moments, but again, I think this was an intentional decision on Rose’s part. I started to let my guard down, thinking that the movie was simply going to be cheap surprise after cheap surprise. I was wrong.
About a third into the movie, the Candyman emerges from the periphery of the film and becomes the main driving force of the plot. It becomes no longer a grad student researching local legends for her thesis, but a grad student fighting for her life and sanity. It is unclear whether the Candyman is the perpetrator of the string of grizzly murders surrounding Helen, or if he is simply a figment of her imagination, and she is the actual killer. With each successive murder, those closest to Helen drift further and further away from her. What begins as guarded suspicion, develops into full blown belief that Helen is mentally insane and dangerous. For me, this is when the psychological terror of the film really began to take center stage.
Helen is being haunted by a legendary psychotic killer that possesses supernatural powers, yet there is no way for her to prove it. What’s worse, her life and freedom are stripped from her, as she is arrested and admitted into a mental institution under maximum security. However, nowhere is she safe from the Candyman. So now, she can’t even run from him because she is constantly restrained. Every time the Candyman appears in the room and she shrieks with terror, the doctors sedate her. Instead of being put out of her misery, her personal hell is dragged on for a month before she finally manages to break free. This for me, is one of the most nightmarish scenarios imaginable. She is completely and utterly alone. Her reality is crumbling around her, and she is helpless to prevent it. In a sense, she has assumed the role of Candyman in the community since everyone believes she is guilty of the murders.
If you’ve read this far, then I’ve already spoiled enough so I won’t share what happens in the end. The character of the Candyman (Tony Todd) is certainly frightening in and of himself, however, I think the result of the psychological wear on Helen is even worse than any potential damage his hook could inflict. Towards the end of the film, no one holds any sympathy for Helen. I couldn’t help but feel sorry for her, even though I myself wasn’t certain if she was innocent. In this respect, I think the film does a tremendous job of demonstrating how people can do horrible things with good intentions. The audience are the only ones to see Helen’s side of the story. For us, it is clear that she is trying to be a hero and do the noble, right thing. It’s frightening to think that someone could be capable of such horrible acts while committing them under the guidance of good morals. Definitely food for thought, even if by the end of the film, things are made clear (so I guess the question of moral ambiguity is thrown out the window).
The last thing I will mention briefly is the music. Legendary composer Philip Glass wrote the score for the film to great effect. I think the music in the final scene brilliantly augments the action taking place. I wasn’t as aware of the music earlier in the film, but as the action picked up, so did the music and its role in helping create the right atmosphere in each scene.
For me,
Candyman
is not only an exceptional horror film, but a well put together movie. Period. The acting was solid, the types of scares were diverse enough to keep things interesting, the music was appropriate, and the film made me think. If you’re a fan of horror films, and haven’t seen
Candyman
yet, you must. Maybe you aren’t the biggest fan of horror films, but if you can stomach the gore peppered throughout the scenes, then I suggest you at least give it a shot (I must add, by today’s standards, the gore probably seems tame to horror aficionados).
I give
Candyman
an A.
Trailer, for your viewing pleasure:
Share this: Twitter Facebook Like this: Like
Loading...
Related
Filed under
Movies
· Tagged with
Bernard Rose ,
Bloody Mary ,
Cabrini-Green ,
Candyman ,
Chicago ,
Clive Barker ,
Hellraiser ,
Horror ,
Philip Glass ,
The Forbidden ,
Tony Todd ,
Virginia Madsen
←
Hip Hop Song of the Day #16
“The Hunger Games” Review: Not a Takeru Kobayashi Biopic
→
Comments
3 Responses to ““Candyman” Review (Spoilers)”
srimattie
says:
March 23, 2012 at 8:53 pm
Totally agree with you about what a real scary movie is! I definitely want to check this one out.
Reply
calwebb
says:
March 26, 2012 at 3:02 am
I watched the trailer prior to reading the review and I was hoping for a Biggie Smalls/South Park reference. You never fail me, Ben.
Reply
bcharmelin
says:
March 26, 2012 at 3:24 pm
I aim to please Cal. When can I expect a post about your trip?
Reply
Leave a Reply
Cancel reply
Enter your comment here...
Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:
Email
(required)
(Address never made public)
Name
(required)
Website
You are commenting using your WordPress.com account.
(  Log Out  /  Change  )
You are commenting using your Twitter account.
(  Log Out  /  Change  )
You are commenting using your Facebook account.
(  Log Out  /  Change  )
You are commenting using your Google+ account.
(  Log Out  /  Change  )
Cancel
Connecting to %s
Notify me of new comments via email.
Search for:
Recent Posts
Top Ten: Verses from Big L
Review: “The Dictator”
Top Ten: Verses from Inspectah Deck
Stephen Hawking’s Brave New World a.k.a. Trending in Stephen Hawking’s Mind a.k.a. Now Trending in my Mind
Trending in my Mind
Archives
June 2012
May 2012
April 2012
March 2012
February 2012
Twitter Updates Error: Twitter did not respond. Please wait a few minutes and refresh this page.
Ben Harmelin
· Just another Ben Harmelin production.
Blog at WordPress.com .
The Structure Theme .
Follow
Follow “Ben Harmelin”
Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.
Build a website with WordPress.com
%d
bloggers like this: