Fantasy Matters: Streaming on Netflix: Supernatural
Pages
Home
About Us
FAQ
Contact Us
Fantasy Matters Reads!
Friday, March 2, 2012
Streaming on Netflix: Supernatural
Supernatural
is a popular television series boasting a Neflix rating of 4.2-stars. I resisted adding it to my Instant Queue due to its frightening cover art and because I tend to avoid horror (unless you count
The X-Files ,
True Blood , and
The Biggest Loser ).  I succumbed  to the temptation because four-star ratings have led me to several unexpectedly great shows:
Veronica Mars ,
Exit through the Gift Shop , and
Downton Abbey .  I watched my first episode of
Supernatural
late one Friday night, around 8:45 PM, when my wife and two children were already sound asleep.  I passed up watching another episode of
How I Met Your Mother
and braced myself for the pilot episode.
The pilot introduces us to Sam and Dean Winchester, two boys raised on the fringes of society by their ghost-hunting father. The Winchesters began fighting spirits after their mother disappeared into demonic flame.  The viewer watches as Sam, who took a hiatus from hunting ghosts to attend law school, is pulled back into the family business by Dean after their father disappears.  Thus begins an exciting retelling of the White Lady haunting.
The show has great special effects, decent acting, and strong plot. However, what really makes
Supernatural
shine it its fresh take on well-known ghost stories and American myths.  In addition to the pilot’s spin of the White Lady ghost story, the show contains elements of Medea,
Windigo , water spirits, phantom travelers, and
Bloody Mary .
Supernatural
also incorporates several icons of Americana into each episode.  For example, I love that Sam and Dean have a black ‘67 Impala that they drive almost exclusively on lonely, two-lane highways.  When they exit their car, it is to investigate a haunted house, sleep in a flea-infested Norman Bates motel, or eat in a diner.
Additionally,
Supernatural
is legitimately frightening and is a pleasant alternative to slick, paranormal soap operas like
True Blood . It fulfills a hunger for TV horror that has not been sated since
The X-Files . The show is in its seventh season on the CW network but you can catch it anytime on Netflix.  Put the kids to bed, turn off the lights, and enjoy at your own risk.
Posted by
Jen
at
6:00 AM
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share to Pinterest
Labels:
Matt Rasmusson ,
Review ,
TV Show
No comments:
Post a Comment
Newer Post
Older Post
Home
Subscribe to:
Post Comments (Atom)
Content
Conversations
Essays
Fun Stuff
Interviews
News
Reviews
Teaching Resources
Media
Books
Movies
Video Games
Fine Arts
TV Shows
Comics/ Graphic Novels
Follow us on
This Week's Picks
Featured Ads
Mid-World Enterprises, LLC 2011 CC BY-NC-ND. Simple template. Powered by
Blogger .