Marks and Spencer's Hand Cooked Bloody Mary potato crisps (chips) - a_foxie_smile
?
LiveJournal
Find more
Communities
RSS Reader
Shop
Help
Login
Login
Join
English (en)
English (en)
Русский (ru)
Українська (uk)
Français (fr)
Português (pt)
español (es)
Deutsch (de)
Italiano (it)
Беларуская (be)
a_foxie_smile
Log in
Or connect using:
Facebook
Twitter
VK
Google+
Mail.ru
OpenID
Error
Username:
Error
Password:
Forgot password?
Remember me
Log in
Create an Account
Your OpenID URL:
Log in
a_foxie_smile
Marks and Spencer's Hand Cooked Bloody Mary potato crisps (chips)
Hands up who had a hangover. No? Either I don't believe you. Or more likely, you are still drunk. In the UK, when one requires a certain "hair of the dog" the next morning. One more than likely turns to that most reviving of drinks, the
Bloody Mary . That amazing cocktail of tomato juice,
Worcester Sauce , tabasco, optionally perhaps some salt and pepper and a natty celery-stick mixing spoon but most importantly, a double shot of vodka. Well, no longer do we have to restrict ourselves to a liquid lunch. Marks and Spencer, our favourite semi-upmarket purveyor of ready-meals has come up with the Hand Cooked Bloody Mary flavour crisp: They are quite robust, rustic things,. In a similar way to old-style Kettle chips. True to the cocktail they do contain (dried) tomatoes and celery (extract). They also contain garlic and onion  and cardamon, taste more or a spicy taco seasoning than of tabasco and I no matter how hard I try I can't find any alcohol in them. So, sorry M+S. While these are nice enough in a spicy tomato kind of way. I might have to continue to seek my Sunday refreshments at the hand of the barman instead. Tags:
chips ,
crisps
Posted on Feb. 25th, 2012 at 11:58 pm
|
Link
|
Leave a comment
|
Share
Comments
Recent Entries Archive Friends Profile
March 2012
S
M
T
W
T
F
S
1 2 3
4 5 6 7 8 9 10
11 12 13 14 15 16 17
18 19 20 21 22 23 24
25 26 27 28 29 30 31
Tags
alcohol america baby food baking barcelona beef biscuits borough market burrito cake carrot char sui chefs chips christmas condiments crisps cucumber cult cupcakes curry daikon drink drinks eggs fashion and food fast food fish food tv fruit gadgets gifts halloween health ice cream indian indonesian italian italy jackfruit japanese jellyfish junk food korean madness madrid mcdonalds meat meat snacks medical mexican milk money non-food novelty oh dear okonomiyaki pets pork pringles pumpkin raw food ready-meals restaurant review russia salsa salsify sandwich science shopping snacks soda soup spain spices sushi sweet potato sweets takeaway television tofu trashy finds tv chefs uas valencia vegetables vietnamese walkers whole foods xmas zucchini
Powered by
LiveJournal.com