PRESSRELEASE
Contact: Steven Herron
Hyperdisk Marketing, Inc.
Office: 1+757-482-7115
Mobile: 1+949-751-8395
Email: sherron@Hyperdisk.com

Contact: Michael Mustafa
Director of Sales & Marketing
St. Regis Resort, Monarch Beach
Office: 1+949+ 234-3228
Email: michael.mustafa@stregis.com


ExtremeOnlineMakeoverfor
St.RegisMonarchBeachResort
Irvine, CA  Hyperdisk Marketing, Inc, a strategic digital marketing and communications firm,
announced today that it has been selected to create a new, dynamic, and engaging online
presence for the St. Regis Resort Monarch Beach, located in Dana Point, CA. Simultaneous with
this development, Hyperdisk Marketing will implement an aggressive emarketing plan designed
to expand distribution and visibility, deliver substantial ancillary revenue, and increase sales
conversions with improved brand presence on major search engines and travel portals.

For over 10 years, Hyperdisk has managed digital marketing campaigns for hotels, resorts, and
major hospitality companies around the world, demonstrating consistent growth. Hyperdisk has
worked with over 250 multi-branded hotels, capitalizing on their ability to create and expand
website revenue through integrated hybrid marketing tactics. With its impressive track record,
Hyperdisk maintains a dominant position in the luxury segment. Exemplars include Enchantment
Resort (Sedona, AZ), The Drake Hotel (Chicago, IL), the Jefferson Hotel (Richmond, VA),
PlumpJack Group, and Joie de Vivre Hotels.

Hyperdisk demonstrates that they understand the luxury segment and more importantly what
drives the luxury customer, said Michael Mustafa, Director of Sales and Marketing, St. Regis
Monarch Beach. They consistently provide customized service and a very stylistic approach to
creative development that is focused on results.

Hyperdisk will focus on providing the St. Regis Monarch Beach with significant search engine
marketing exposure and hybrid marketing tools to deliver the maximum number of viewthroughs that drive bookings. Search engine marketing contributes as much as 85% of all web

traffic to the hotel industry, and it is the leading marketing outlet for driving purchasing decisions
on-and-offline, as reported by eMarketer and Hotels Magazine

It is very exciting to be working with one of the most recognizable brands in the luxury category
and Makar Properties, a premiere company who are excellent stewards of the environment while
being extremely successful in asset management and development. said Steven V. Seghers,
Hyperdisk Marketings president. Our objective is to create a very stylistic and creative site that
reflects the quality of the resort and delivers a strong experiential flow that improves guest
service and bookings. We anticipate exceeding their goals through an efficient and productive
strategic and tactical plan that will significantly increase the exposure of the resort.
About Hyperdisk Marketing
Founded in 1993, Hyperdisk Marketing Inc. (hyperdisk.com) is a leader in strategic emarketing
and communications services for companies nationwide. Based in Irvine, California, Hyperdisk
offers clients a nuanced service strategy focused on driving sales, increasing brand visibility, and
improving customer loyalty. In order to help clients maximize their ROI, Hyperdisk emphasizes
proactive brand ignition, effective creative design, search engine marketing, and aggressive
hybrid marketing techniques. Hyperdisk represents over 150 hotels in 26 states, and is the most
awarded agency by Hospitality Sales and Marketing Association International (HSMAI) over the
past two years. In addition to hospitality, Hyperdisk represents major corporations in the
pharmaceutical, foodservice, financial and real estate industries.
About Makar Properties
MONARCH BEACH GOLF LINKS, DANA POINT CA

Makar Properites, LLC is a diversified real estate development company that specializes in
innovative master-planned communities and mixed-use, resort, retail, golf, office and residential
properties in premier locations and high-growth markets.
Makar was established as a company intent on improving the lives of those we touch through that
which we develop; a company devoted to creating the very best while taking into account
community needs and environmental constraints; a company focused on stewardship and
creating superior investor value. Makar's knowledge and experience, coupled with core values of
innovation, responsibility and results, provide a solid foundation on which to acquire and develop
only the most exceptional properties.
About St. Regis
The St. Regis is one of Starwood's luxury brands. The first St. Regis hotel was built in 1904 in
Manhattan, and in the 1930s under head bartender Fernand Petiot introduced America to the
Bloody Mary cocktail. The St. Regis brand has since expanded to 20 properties around the world,
and there are 21 more properties in development. From New York to Beijing, each St. Regis is
desirably located. We are honored to offer the extraordinary world of luxury awaiting you at St.
Regis Hotels & Resorts.
-END-

