The Best Sculpture and Architecture in the History of Art
HubPages Sign In Help
report
HubPages » Arts and Design
The Best Sculpture and Architecture in the History of Art Updated on April 9, 2012
St. Mark the Evangelist
See all 3 photos
Source: Wikimedia Commons
A copy of
Donatello's
statue of
Saint Mark the Evangelist
was installed in a niche of
Or San Michele
in Florence. If it were not for the depth of the recess in the exterior wall of the church, the importance of the Saint would have been totally ignored, for the highly decorative interior and exterior of the niche compete with the unornate and unembellished figure of the Evangelist.
Carved originally in marble, the biblical figure of Saint Mark is standing naturally. About to deliver his oratory sermon, Saint Mark is holding a tablet in his massive left hand. Wisdom is scintillating from his realistically carved facial gestures. His alert physiognomy is not disturbed by the simple cloak that covers his tall slender body. Saint Mark's readiness to step forward and utter wise words indicates that the statue of the Evangelist ought to stand by itself, instead of being confined and obscured by the ornamental recess in the wall. Due to the misplacement of the Saint Mark's figure, not only the beauty of the statue had been disregarded but also the significance of Saint Mark the Evangelist has been neglected.
The Gates of Paradise
See all 3 photos
"The Gates of Paradise": Panel 1 - "Genesis," Adam and Eve Source:
Courtesy of Becky Daroff
In the unique design of the east doors of the
Baptistery
that face the entrance to the
Duomo di Santa Maria del Fiore
in
Florence ,
Lorenzo Ghiberti
demonstrated a true understanding of linear perspective and anatomy. The ten bronze panels executed in an exquisite manner emanate his genuine love for the arts and undeniable devotion to his profession.
In the first panel, "Genesis," one can feel the radiating energy of God's creation. The golden light coming from above illuminates the creation of Eve. The masterly modeled figure of the Creator and figure of Eve have been given a significant place in the center of the panel.
In order to portray several scenes from "Genesis" in the same panel, Ghiberti applied two different techniques of relief. The striking contrast between the low relief of two-dimensional quality and the high relief of three-dimensional quality contributes to the profound realism of the biblical theme, the true equilibrium between the spiritual and physical essence of life.
The Pantheon
See all 3 photos
"Pantheon" by Giovanni Paolo Pannini Source: Wikimedia Commons
Who was the artist who designed the best preserved ancient building named the
Pantheon ? Its origin and its purpose are still unknown. The hidden meaning of its name has not been revealed either.
Modern art critics and scholars have associated this splendid edifice with pagan gods and goddesses. Ironically, all pagan temples are either inactive or in ruins, whereas the Pantheon, after its consecration by the
Roman Catholic Church
in dedication to the
Virgin Mary , has remained active and changed its name to Santa Maria Rotonda.
Carrying the largest unreinforced
dome
ever built, this simple and modest structure houses a more sophisticated and intricate interior, manifested by its perfect geometric design that symbolizes the perfect Creator, and its vast space that symbolizes His infinity. Illuminated by heavenly light coming through the
oculus
(a circular opening at the apex of a dome), it makes a spectator wonder about his/her origin and purpose.
More in this Series 0 Mixed Media The 'Mystic Wine' Tapestry An analysis of the "Mystic Wine" tapestry.
0 Arts and Design What happened to the genuine artists? The question always arises: who is a true artist?
What is art?
Art history and certain characteristics will provide an answer.
Recommended Hubs
Follow (0) Comments
No comments yet. Sign in
or
sign up
and post using a HubPages account. 0 of 8192 characters used Post Comment No HTML is allowed in comments, but URLs will be hyperlinked. Comments are not for promoting your Hubs or other sites.
working
lilia3 3 Followers 9 Hubs MORE BY THIS AUTHOR The Best Drawings and Paintings in the History of Art
Popular EDITOR'S CHOICE 26 Crafts & Handiwork How to Make a Christmas Bow by
CassyLu1981
62 Crafts & Handiwork Ten Genius Things You Can Do with a Glue Gun by
Lori Green
58 Crafts & Handiwork Painting on Stones Is a Craft That Rocks! by
PURPLECANDY
Related 15 Visiting Paris Paris; A Photographic Guide to Artistry and Architecture in the City by
Greensleeves Hubs
1 Architecture The Architecture and Sculpture of the Parthenon by
naffgap
0 Arts and Design Coptic Art: Architecture, Sculpture, Painting and Textiles by
whyjoker
1 Mental Health About Visual Art and How It Can Help You with Problems and Emotions by
Lucie Matějíčková
EDITOR'S CHOICE 8 Sculpture, Statues & Carving Thai Buddhist temple art, artefacts and architecture by
chasmac
Click to Rate This Article How good is this article?
Please rate this article using the scale below. The scale is from 1 to 10, where 10 is the best and 1 is the worst.
Your Rating:
?
submit
HubPages About Us Copyright Copyright © 2015 HubPages Inc. and respective owners. Other product and company names shown may be trademarks of their respective owners. HubPages ®
is a registered Service Mark of HubPages, Inc. HubPages and Hubbers (authors) may earn revenue on this page based on affiliate relationships and advertisements with partners including Amazon, eBay, Google, and others. terms of use
privacy policy
(0.17 sec)
working