April 2011 Archives | MetaFilter
caret-down clock comment email facebook feed go-to-bottom go-to-top heart log-out moon pencil search-white twitter cog list user mefi-shirt bracketed-plus down-arrow html-bracket-left html-bracket-right slash two-lines bold close hyperlink icon_19502 icon_248 icon_299 italic
Meta Filter
community weblog
Log In
Sign Up
MetaFilter
AskMeFi
FanFare
Projects
Music
Jobs
IRL
MetaTalk
More
Best Of
Podcast
Chat
Labs
Search MetaFilter…
Menu
Home
FAQ
About
Archives
Tags
Popular
Random
April 2011 Archives
April 30 Galerie Ardulik "The first Gallery dedicated to artists lying behind cinema, comics, video games masterpieces… and who creat [sic], to entertain, the most significant icons of our time."
The gallery has previously featured exhibitions from
webcomic
artist
Scott Campbell ,
H.R. Giger ,
propaganda-style Futurama posters , Superman penciller
Tim Sale ,
sketches
from
Star Wars: The Clone Wars , and
filmmaker
Sylvain Chomet .
[ more inside ] posted by
kagredon
at 11:52 PM PST
- 	 5 comments
Sex Pistols final concert The Sex Pistols final concert
@ Winterland, 1/14/78 posted by
Ardiril
at 8:11 PM PST
- 	 44 comments
“I do it because I care for people.” Los Angeles grandmother sells suicide kits to allow the elderly to "die with dignity."
posted by
hermitosis
at 5:59 PM PST
- 	 99 comments
Vanguard of American Journalism
Current TV
previously
&
previously , the media company founded by Al Gore after the 2000 election, has picked up the kinds of in depth long form journalism being rapidly dropped by major networks, but has been tantalizingly unavailable for those without cable; until now.
They have been putting their Vanguard episodes up on their website and on YouTube.
[ more inside ] posted by
Blasdelb
at 4:31 PM PST
- 	 24 comments
Worrying is praying for what you don't want
I asked what he had in mind, and he explained that he was taking a friend and embarking on a round-the-world trip, from the jungles of Africa to the streets of New York by way of India and Australasia, and planning to record any musicians he could find on the way into his Apple Powerbook, using it as a fully fledged multitrack recording studio. His intention thereby, he claimed, was to create a CD, DVD, and documentary film, all three of which would provide a snapshot of mankind at the turn of the new Millennium, and form
a vast multimedia project designed to, as he put it, "celebrate the unity and the diversity of humanity" .
[ more inside ] posted by
hippybear
at 4:26 PM PST
- 	 5 comments
Don't be evil
Andrew Norman Wilson was fired
from his job at Google for
investigating the working conditions of yellow badge employees
misusing company equipment:
[ more inside ] posted by
AlsoMike
at 3:49 PM PST
- 	 167 comments
Death and Life of American Planning The Death and Life of American Planning
- Planning professor Thomas J. Campanella discusses the legacy of Jane Jacob's effect on planning in America: First: "Privileging the grassroots over plannerly authority and expertise meant a loss of professional agency." Second: " It diminished the disciplinary identity of planning." Third: "The seeming paucity among American planners today of the speculative courage and vision that once distinguished this profession." Have these culminated in turning American planning into a "trivial profession" whose goals of equity, social justice, and sustainability are self-undermined? posted by
stratastar
at 3:41 PM PST
- 	 40 comments
A rap eulogy in 32 bars (give or take 5%)
"On November 22, 1997, there was a party at 635 Logan Street, Steubenville, Ohio. Hubbard attended this party. At the party were several members of the gang known as the Crips.
It is contested whether Hubbard is a member of the Crips. During that evening, Wise God Allah, a.k.a. Grier Montgomery, was walking down the street outside of the party. Wise God Allah was known to be a member of the rival gang the Bloods. Hubbard and up to nine other men began shooting at Wise God Allah.
One of the shots hit Wise God Allah.
The gunshot wound was fatal." * " On one record I did called
'Wise'
that didn't make the album the
Supreme Clientele —I couldn't use it, they took it off * * —I cried writing it. I wrote it on the beach. And I cried. And it started raining when I was crying. It was in Miami. I cried writing it, and then when I went to go record it, it had some tears coming to my eyes too, recording it, because I had to zone out, I couldn't really do it in front of everybody. I don't like to record in front of a lot of people especially when I'm writing emotional stuff." - Ghostface Killah [ audio interview ]
[ more inside ] posted by
jng
at 3:31 PM PST
- 	 12 comments
Eight Days A Week
$26.74bn
in revenue,
£0.69
an hour - is
Apple
exploiting
Chinese workers
? posted by
sgt.serenity
at 2:32 PM PST
- 	 158 comments
Superplexus Circles, 24" Superplexus Circles, 24"
posted by
Blazecock Pileon
at 12:11 PM PST
- 	 30 comments
Oh Globbits!
Nearly twenty years before the debut of the Academy award-winning clay-mation film
Wallace & Gromit: The Curse of the Were-Rabbit ,
Steve Box ,
Terry Brain , and
Charlie Mills
created one of the most widely-recognized British kids' shows of the 1980's...
The Trap Door .
[ more inside ] posted by
lemuring
at 11:49 AM PST
- 	 13 comments
he flips for the users The first official pics of Stern's new Tron pinball machine have been released.
According to Stern, this game will continue their recent trend of keeping games "short" and "random". Features include a miniature (non-working, of course) arcade cabinet over a cellar hole, a dropping three-target assembly (as seen on
Attack From Mars
and
Spiderman ) with a whirlwind disc behind it, and a third flipper. Like Avatar, it looks like Tron will have a "normal" and "LE" release, with the LE version adding lots of
EL wire
all over the playfield. posted by
luvcraft
at 11:10 AM PST
- 	 35 comments
An Extended Finnish Saturday Matinee
Finnish YouTube user
Ishexan
has uploaded seven English subtitled movies in parts:
Broken Blossoms
( 1919 ),
Aelita
( 1924 ),
The Gipsy Charmer
( 1929 ),
The Tragedy of Elina
( 1938 ),
The Activists
( 1939 ),
The Wooden Pauper's Bride
( 1944 ), and
Sampo
( 1959 ), which is based on the epic poem
The Kalevala . The films are mostly Finnish, though
Aelita
is a silent Russian sci-fi film, and
Sampo
was a joint Finnish and Soviet production. More film clips inside (mostly Finnish documentaries and "dorky musical numbers").
[ more inside ] posted by
filthy light thief
at 10:44 AM PST
- 	 12 comments
1.15 Gb picture of royal wedding Were you at the royal wedding?
posted by
wpenman
at 9:24 AM PST
- 	 97 comments
Dance like an idiot and don’t sell anything.
From wide-eyed
Ze Frank
comes a new useless-and-joyful social thingy called
Star.me
that's like Farmville if Farmville involved giving people
stars that look like animals . Sign up for an account with the promo code "sportsracers", offered by Ze on
The Show::Replay , which celebrates The Show's five-year anniversary with added commentary. posted by
Rory Marinich
at 8:45 AM PST
- 	 47 comments
Anonymous hits the US Chamber of Commerce
Last night at midnight, more than a gigabyte of internal memos from the
US Chamber of Commerce
and two other conservative think-tanks were
leaked to the Internet . Although no announcement has been posted to the semi-official
Anonymous web site , the archive contains a README file crediting the
hacker/cracker/griefer collective .
[ more inside ] posted by
verb
at 8:38 AM PST
- 	 50 comments
"in the street, in a store, in a kitchen or bedroom"
Starting in the summer of 2009,
Southern Souls
began by capturing unique performances by musicians that call southern Ontario home. Seeing musicians play in the places that they live and breathe, places they themselves have chosen—in the street, in a store, in a kitchen or bedroom—is almost a homecoming for the music itself, returning it to the places in which it started.
[ more inside ] posted by
purephase
at 8:32 AM PST
- 	 5 comments
I got some meat in my campylobacter The 10 Pathogen-Food Combinations That Most Hurt Public Health
posted by
jjray
at 8:08 AM PST
- 	 12 comments
♪ Sadness is a Blessing
- Lykke Li.
(Single link Vimeo music video)
Youtube version . ( V i a )
[ more inside ] posted by
zarq
at 7:41 AM PST
- 	 17 comments
Conflict, Security, and Development Remove the scourge of conflict
- "Taming mass violence is the theme of the World Bank's latest
World Development Report , which focuses on 'conflict, security and development' [ pdf ] ... Mass violence destroys all hopes of progress.
We should make a huge effort to eliminate this scourge.
It seems feasible. It is desirable. So try." posted by
kliuless
at 6:32 AM PST
- 	 18 comments
The other Cairo It's not quite the Nile,
but there is political strife there too.
The Illinois river town of Cairo (KAY-row), IL, is
surrounded by the Ohio and the Mississippi , and is in danger of being flooded.
The Army Corps of Engineers wants to activate a flood mitigation plan by breaching some levees into spillways designed to mitigate such a flood.
Unfortunately, those floodways are in Missouri, and they would rather not have a bunch of farmland flooded just to save some little town in Illinois.
Judge Limbaugh ( yes ) gave the OK, but the battle isn't over yet. posted by
gjc
at 5:45 AM PST
- 	 39 comments
The Gostak: An Interofgan Halpock
Finally, here you are. At the delcot of tondam, where doshes deave. But the doshery lutt is crenned with glauds. Glauds! How rorm it would be to pell back to the bewl and distunk them, distunk the whole delcot, let the drokes uncren them. But you are the gostak.
The gostak distims the doshes.
And no glaud will vorl them from you.
Delcot
This is the delcot of tondam, where gitches frike and duscats glake. Across from a tophthed curple, a gomway deaves to kiloff and kirf, gombing a samilen to its hoff.
Crenned in the loff lutt are five glauds.
> _
[ more inside ] posted by
JHarris
at 2:54 AM PST
- 	 65 comments
Daphne DuMaurier's The Doll
Rediscovered work by DuMaurier .
"Lost for more than 70 years, this dark story of a man's obsessive passion for Rebecca, a mysterious violinist, hasn't been published since it appeared in a small collection in 1937." posted by
bardophile
at 2:31 AM PST
- 	 5 comments
Fungus of the Month by Tom Volk Fungus of the month
, since 1997. Discover the bright aqua
green stain fungus , which turns wood green, and was used by woodworkers in the Renaissance to add natural greens to inlaid wood work.
Stinky and obscene
dog stinkhorn fungus
(maybe NSFW), like pink wieners growing out of your mulch. And many more,
poisonous ,
infectious
(warning: gross),
hallucinogenic , with interesting photos and stories, for what he calls "the myco-curious". Bonus:
I survived the destroying angel , an account of what happens if you eat a poisonous
Amanita
mushroom and are really, really lucky.
[ more inside ] posted by
LobsterMitten
at 12:41 AM PST
- 	 22 comments
April 29 10 Creepy Plants That Shouldn't Exist 10 Creepy Plants That Shouldn't Exist
posted by
shivohum
at 9:55 PM PST
- 	 45 comments
Another green world
Over the past 50 years, the small coastal plain (campo), some 30 kilometers southwest of the city of Almería, has been intensively developed for agriculture. An estimated 20,000 hecatres of extra-early market produce is grown in greenhouses in the Campo de Dalías, and it accounts for over $1.5 billion in economic activity.
[ more inside ] posted by
Casimir
at 9:15 PM PST
- 	 24 comments
"Commencement Speaker" has a new meaning MIT now owns non-voting majority of Bose
thanks to a generous alum.
NYT ,
CNN . posted by
staggernation
at 8:09 PM PST
- 	 68 comments
I want to realize too late I never should have left New Jersey
New Jersey indie punks
Titus Andronicus
have released
the video for No Future Part Three: Escape From No Future , the third song off their acclaimed Civil War themed concept album
The Monitor.
Its the second video from The Monitor, after last year's
A More Perfect Union.
The album, released last year, uses the Civil War as a loose metaphor for the New Jersey band living in Boston and dealing with growing up. It includes spoken quotes from Abe Lincoln and Walt Whitman (read by Craig Finn). The clip, directed by Tom Scharpling, is more traditional than his well-loved videos for
Ted Leo
and
The New Pornographers
and shows the band touring their beloved New Jersey.
[ more inside ] posted by
Lovecraft In Brooklyn
at 6:27 PM PST
- 	 104 comments
Tornadoes devastate southeastern U.S.
A wave of powerful storm cells
swept the southeastern United States this week, spawning
hundreds of tornadoes
that wreaked havoc from Texas to Virginia. While damage was widespread throughout the region, the most terrible toll was seen in Alabama, which has accounted for two-thirds of
the more than 300 reported deaths
-- the deadliest since the Great Depression -- and where
many small towns
were simply wiped from the map. Especially hard-hit was the university town of Tuscaloosa, the state's fifth-largest, where a monstrous F5 tornado (seen in
this terrifying firsthand video ) tore a
vicious
track
through entire neighborhoods and business districts -- narrowly missing the region's primary hospital -- and continuing a path that rained debris as far as Birmingham, over sixty miles away. The disaster
prompted a visit from President Obama today , who declared
"I've never seen devastation like this"
after surveying the area with Governor Robert Bentley, Senator Richard Shelby, and
Mayor Walter Maddox . More: photos from
In Focus
and
The Big Picture ,
aerial footage of the aftermath ,
"before and after" sliders , the path of the Tuscaloosa twister
on Google Maps ,
People Locator ,
local aid information ,
MetaTalk check-in thread posted by
Rhaomi
at 6:18 PM PST
- 	 102 comments
Fox Mulder's Wristwatch
The Internet's most comprehensive examination of the watches worn by Fox Mulder on TV's 'The X-Files'.
[ more inside ] posted by
burnmp3s
at 5:07 PM PST
- 	 46 comments
Tom Tom Club
Genius of Live
from the Tom Tom Club. Disc two features 12 remixes of their original megahit,
Genius of
Love . posted by
puny human
at 4:20 PM PST
- 	 34 comments
French trombone accompanying mad beats. Berkeley rapper Lil' B announced at Coachella he is doing "the most controversial thing in hip-hop".
He's releasing an album titled
I'm Gay . Only
he's not gay . Well, not gay in the gay way. He's gay in the really happy way.
Lil' B informed MTV News that he's "taking the initial steps to break barriers" between the hip-hop community and homosexuals.
He has received death threats
as a result of his message.
GLAAD remains skeptical
about the rapper's motives. posted by
quadog
at 4:16 PM PST
- 	 64 comments
Lonely Crusade What’s Left of the Left - Paul Krugman's Lonely Crusade for Liberalism.
After President Obama met with a group of prominent economists in December of 2010, among them
Alan Blinder , the latter remarked, somewhat bleakly and apologetically: "In the United States, there is no left left".
Paul Krugman
is a lonely man.
[ more inside ] posted by
VikingSword
at 3:46 PM PST
- 	 100 comments
I am a 91-year-old bodybuilder I am a 91-year-old bodybuilder
(SLgrauniad) posted by
Tom-B
at 2:28 PM PST
- 	 43 comments
City of Trees
A map of every street tree in Washington, DC . posted by
schmod
at 1:29 PM PST
- 	 33 comments
Cummingtonite? I'll bring the erotic acid.
From Draculin to Spermadine, Fucitol to Arsole, here is your guide to
molecules with silly names . (via
kottke ) posted by
BuddhaInABucket
at 1:00 PM PST
- 	 15 comments
Your Diorama Should Be So Lucky
Alan Wolfson's
Canal Street Cross Section , the latest of his urban miniatures, will be
exhibited , along with many other works of a similar vein, at New York's Museum of Art and Design June 7 through September 18 ( previously ). posted by
nj_subgenius
at 12:04 PM PST
- 	 12 comments
RIP Joanna Russ
After suffering a
series of strokes
earlier this week, feminist science fiction author and essayist
Joanna Russ
has died. Russ's best known work is probably her novel
The Female
Man ; this and her other works were
often misunderstood and dismissed by the male-dominated science fiction field of the 70s . Despite this, her short story " When It Changed " (which was included in Harlan Ellison's
Again Dangerous Visions ) won a Hugo award in 1973, and her novella, " Souls ," won a Nebula award in 1983. In retrospect, of course, hers is
one of the names that will be remembered
from that era of imaginative writing. posted by
aught
at 11:44 AM PST
- 	 87 comments
Grannies for Drugs
Grandmothers are agitated to the point of singing K’naan songs .
This basically concerns the frustration over the
Canadian Senate killing Bill C-393
(a law to facilitate production of cheaper life saving HIV/AIDS drugs for developing countries). With the new election looming, the “Grannies” would like to see folks use
aidsaction.ca
to
email their candidates
and ask them about their
Access to Medicines stance . posted by
davidng
at 11:39 AM PST
- 	 6 comments
The economics of Death Star planet destruction.
Furthermore, let’s remember that Alderaan isn’t
gone.
It’s just blown up. Suddenly all the metallic elements that were languishing away in the planetary core are floating around in the void, ripe for the plucking. And anyone who can plausibly claim to have owned them is dead. You can build a lot of Death Stars with that much tungsten. Well, not even a lot—but maybe one.
The Overthinking It Think Tank takes a look at
“the economic calculus behind the Empire’s tactic of A) building a Death Star, B) intimidating planets into submission with the threat of destruction, and C) actually carrying through with said destruction if the planet doesn’t comply.”
[ more inside ] posted by
kipmanley
at 11:30 AM PST
- 	 78 comments
Could Be Awkward The Washington Post has invited Donald Trump as its guest for the annual White House Correspondents Dinner.
WaPo writers
Ezra Klein
and
Dana Milbank
are not amused, with the latter pointing out that his paper had recently
taken Trump to task
for his rampant birtherism. No word yet on how the POTUS might react. posted by
Halloween Jack
at 11:20 AM PST
- 	 62 comments
all I see here is obscenity
Great Moments in Werner Herzog Voiceovers
[ more inside ] posted by
Potomac Avenue
at 11:09 AM PST
- 	 29 comments
Oh, when engineers go wrong.... Good answers at a quora.com post about bad designs
that might have best been not created..... posted by
skepticallypleased
at 10:20 AM PST
- 	 73 comments
Music From Nowhere
Since the late '70s ,
Gordon Monahan
has been
making
a
career
of extracting the unheard from pretty much anything he can get his hands on.
Monahan's
works
for
piano, loudspeakers, video, kinetic sculpture, and computer-controlled sound environments
span various genres from avant-garde concert music to multi-media installation and sound art.
Such pieces include
long string installations activated by wind ( Long Aeolian Piano , 1984-88) , by
water vortices ( Aquaeolian Whirlpool , 1990)
and by
indoor air draughts ( Spontaneously Harmonious in Certain Kinds of Weather , 1996) . His work for
electronic tone generators
and
human speaker swingers ( Speaker Swinging , 1982) , is a hybrid of science, music, and
performance art , where
minimalistic trance music
based on the Doppler Effect contrasts with issues central to
performance art
such as physical struggle and ' implied threat '.
John Cage once said , " At the piano, Gordon Monahan produces sounds we haven't heard before. "
[ more inside ] posted by
wcfields
at 10:17 AM PST
- 	 4 comments
Stinkbugs: Threat or Menace?
The
Brown Marmorated Stink Bug
( Halyomorpha halys ) is an invasive insect
introduced from China
and first spotted in the United States in 1998 in Allentown, PA.
[ more inside ] posted by
electroboy
at 9:47 AM PST
- 	 65 comments
Smug liberal bigots
After Daily Beast columnist Andrew Sullivan
lambasted
The
Sisters of Perpetual Indulgence's
Hunky Jesus Contest in San Francisco's
Dolores Park
with a short post flamingly titled " The Tired, Lame Bigotry Of Some Homosexuals ," the
Sisters responded . Sullivan reacted to the responses with an escalation, calling the Sisters " smug liberal bigots ." Is the Hunky Jesus Contest " everyone's favorite blasphemous hoot " or a " profane and shockingly insensitive spectacle " that "illustrates the secular, pro-'gay' Left's hypocrisy in demanding 'respect' for homosexuals and transsexuals"? ( previously ) posted by
mrgrimm
at 9:34 AM PST
- 	 148 comments
Most Invasive Snails? The United States of Environmental Superlatives
posted by
PepperMax
at 9:32 AM PST
- 	 26 comments
He's Baaack Yes, we turned Office into a game!
"Is this Microsoft tone genuinely corny-earnest, reflecting the kind of middle-school pep-rally sensibility that you can only imagine Apple hipsters sneering and snickering at (making you want to punch the hipsters) and Google engineers looking at in amazement? Or is it triple-backflip hipsterism itself, an Onionesque by-golly mockery of corniness? I suppose this is one of the enduring mysteries of life." [ Previously ] [ Previously-er ] posted by
-->NMN.80.418
at 9:06 AM PST
- 	 66 comments
"Tags: creepy raft made of bugs, nature, ants"
"You've seen ants. Thousands of them. And most of the time, you've seen them in colonies, living as a group. But have you seen them float as a group? Apparently a single fire ant will struggle in water, but a cluster of them can bob happily for months.
A new study has used time lapse photography to figure out why — and how — that is. " posted by
ocherdraco
at 9:01 AM PST
- 	 40 comments
Melodic Expectation: reviews of free music, new every weekday
There's a world of music offered online, and some of it is legitimately free. But if you're looking for more than
single tracks as offered by RCRD LBL , but you're daunted by the sheer volume of
netlabel releases on Archive.org ,
MeFite
sleeping bear
offers an alternative:
Melodic Expectation , reviews of music released for free by artists and labels. There are
36 posts
to date, with new additions every weekday. [via
mefi projects ]
[ more inside ] posted by
filthy light thief
at 8:30 AM PST
- 	 12 comments
Video Is TIme Travel
A German tourist films a trip to New York City in 1983 and 86:
Times Square,
The Subway posted by
The Whelk
at 7:32 AM PST
- 	 53 comments
The Monkees Reflect on Head The Monkees' Head: 'Our fans couldn't even see it'
At the height of their fame, the Monkees teamed up with Jack Nicholson to film the psychedelic classic Head – and destroy their careers in the process. So how do they feel about it now?
[ more inside ] posted by
jack_mo
at 7:22 AM PST
- 	 74 comments
videos of critters
Elephants Reunited After 20 Years
|
A slow motion dog
|
my hip hop dog
|
Baby and dog having fun with bubbles
|
sleepy kitty is sleepy
|
adjustable bark volume control
| horse skipping rope
|
fat kitty on exercise program
and all kinds of
videos of critters on Dogwork.com . posted by
nickyskye
at 7:02 AM PST
- 	 41 comments
Mr. Leonard Bernstein Explains It All For You
Inside Pop - The Rock Revolution
is a CBS News special, broadcast in April 1967. The show was hosted by Leonard Bernstein and is probably one of the first examples of pop music being examined as a 'serious' art form. The film features many scenes shot in Los Angeles in late 1966, including interviews with Frank Zappa and Graham Nash, as well as the now legendary Brian Wilson solo performance of "Surf's Up."
(MLYT)
[ more inside ] posted by
overeducated_alligator
at 6:30 AM PST
- 	 15 comments
Squeal like a pig!
Ev'ry truly cultured music student knows: you must learn your scales and your arpeggios.
Even if you're the lead singer of a death metal band
(SLYT). posted by
SomeTrickPony
at 6:00 AM PST
- 	 46 comments
A trail of bodies in your wake.. Friday Flash Fun
in the (temporary) form of Soul Brother, a retro style 2d flash game from adult swim. You character can jump into a fresh body when killed, which soon proves useful as all the inhabitants of this world have different talents, and thanks to you, very short life spans.
[ more inside ] posted by
Dillonlikescookies
at 5:57 AM PST
- 	 10 comments
Urban Nature
I drive past the
Meadowlands
every day now for the past 2 years on the NJ Turnpike.
I kept seeing construction equipment and this area of dead dumping land slowly transform into one with actual streams like out of some
plan .
Turns out, there
was .
[ more inside ] posted by
rich
at 4:14 AM PST
- 	 19 comments
KTRU Departs FM Airwaves Defiant, Unique As Ever KTRU Departs FM Airwaves Defiant, Unique As Ever:
2 weeks ago
The FCC Approved
controversial sale of Rice University's radio station, KTRU, to the University of Houston and after 40 years of student-run broadcasting, KTRU's FM signal was cut off promptly at 6 a.m. yesterday, leaving a sizable hole in Houston's FM band. The triumphant speech of Jesse Jackson at the 1984 Democratic convention faded into the wall of sound of The Flying Luttenbachers "The Pointed Stick Variations," reaching an almost unbearable harshness before everything ceased.
[ Previously ] posted by
Blake
at 3:46 AM PST
- 	 50 comments
April 28 Physics tricks could create one-way soundproofing Physics tricks could create one-way soundproofing.
Materials that genuinely discriminate between the direction of light or sound might be possible, according to a new study. That could make for true one-way mirrors or for directional soundproofing—imagine, for instance, a wall through which sound can enter but not escape. posted by
Leisure_Muffin
at 10:11 PM PST
- 	 35 comments
How I Wrote How I Wrote
is a series of videos from The Guardian where musicians perform a song after talking about it a little bit. Among the artists who've taken part are
Rufus Wainwright ,
Kristin Hersh ,
Corinne Bailey Rae ,
Laura Marling ,
Keren Ann ,
Patrick Wolf ,
Elbow ,
Gruff Rhys ,
Warpaint ,
Cee Lo Green ,
Antony and the Johnsons ,
P. J. Harvey
and
Emmy the Great , who sings a song about the Royal Wedding, appropriately enough for today (though I suppose the Cee Lo Green song is appropriate too). posted by
Kattullus
at 8:42 PM PST
- 	 27 comments
I guess you could always dust off that Britannica set ...
"Let's pretend it's an alternate world, or maybe sometime in the future, and there is no free search. You have to pay for your Google, or Bing, or whatever.
How much would you be willing to pay? " posted by
bayani
at 6:56 PM PST
- 	 119 comments
Beware the cobweb-draped hand of the motherland.
Australian comedy troupe
The Chaser
(best known for
breaking into the APEC summit in 2007 ) have been
banned from reporting on the Royal Wedding
by the Royal Family.
The Chaser respond.
[ more inside ] posted by
Lovecraft In Brooklyn
at 5:53 PM PST
- 	 168 comments
"Neo-classi-cosmoidal-cosmetic, in a nutshell."
Split Enz
were to New Zealand what the Beatles were to the UK, and like the fabs their legacy is impressive: an
endlessly
entertaining
back - catalogue
and some
inspiring
solo
and
band
offshoots . One of these,
Crowded House , captured more of the world's attention, but few in New Zealand would question the priority of the Enz. Which must be why, in 2007, Radio New Zealand made an
eight-hour
documentary series split over ten podcasts about their fascinating journey from art-folk-classical-prog to New Wave pop mastery:
Enzology
is essential listening for any Split Enz fan, featuring "excerpts from all the hits and numerous album tracks, plus previously unreleased demos, live recordings and studio out-takes gathered from the band members' personal archives and elsewhere".
[ more inside ] posted by
rory
at 5:16 PM PST
- 	 63 comments
NFL Draft and Lockout
The Carolina Panthers have drafted
Cam Newton
with the top pick in tonight's NFL Draft (watch the 1st round
live here ). The draft is taking place against the uncertainty of an intense battle between the owners and players
( previously on mefi ) . On Monday, District Judge Susan Nelson issued
her opinion
ending the lockout
of the players, who will be reporting back to work by next week, although at least one team was
not allowed to enter facilities today . Although the league asked for a stay of the ruling, Judge Nelson
denied the request yesterday , lifting fans' hopes that the 2011 season will be played. posted by
ofthestrait
at 5:11 PM PST
- 	 25 comments
The Cyclopean Terror of Sex Ed Late Bloomer (SLYT, NSF4th graders)
posted by
PhoBWanKenobi
at 4:30 PM PST
- 	 41 comments
Tidy Your CSS ProCSSor
is a powerful (and wholly free) CSS prettifier that lets you format CSS in the exact way you want. Turn your CSS into something that is visually more compelling and readable with a minimum of effort. posted by
netbros
at 3:58 PM PST
- 	 27 comments
My Drunk Kitchen
What goes better than alcohol and cooking? My Drunk Kitchen brings you important recipes for when you're boozed, like
grilled cheese ,
mac & cheese ,
omelettes , and everyone's favorite:
cookies !
[ more inside ] posted by
whitneyarner
at 3:29 PM PST
- 	 55 comments
Truth, Justice, and the International Way
In the landmark 900th issue of
Action Comics , Superman has
renounced his American citizenship .
[ more inside ] posted by
MegoSteve
at 3:28 PM PST
- 	 117 comments
The Tortoise And The Hare And The Hare And The Tortoise Apple's revenues and net earnings for the first calendar quarter of 2011 both beat the reported sales and profits of its rival Microsoft for the first time in recent history.
It's been an epic rivalry between these two computer tech giants. Apple had an early lead, was overtaken by Microsoft in a rather spectacular fashion. And then, slowly, like a guerilla campaign from distant provinces, Apple came back. At least by one measure - earnings - a measure that seemed destined to always be in Microsoft's favor, Apple has now taken the lead.
[ more inside ] posted by
VikingSword
at 3:23 PM PST
- 	 336 comments
Apartheid Economy
Towards an Apartheid Economy?
A 1996 Harvard Business Review article on rising inequality, by
Richard Freeman .
[ more inside ] posted by
russilwvong
at 2:13 PM PST
- 	 34 comments
Jorge Borges
Jorge Luis Borges
delivers the
Norton lectures
at Harvard, 1968:
The
Riddle
of
Poe try
::
The
Metaphor
::
A
Poet's
Creed posted by
puny human
at 1:47 PM PST
- 	 17 comments
Brooklyn Fields. Almost Amis.
[ more inside ] posted by
TheWash
at 1:23 PM PST
- 	 16 comments
Im in ur base, killing ur doodz
West Censoring East : The Use of Western Technologies by Middle East Censors, 2010-2011.
Meanwhile a
British firm has been found to have offered spying software
to the Egyptian regime –
Gamma International's Finfisher program would have enabled government spies to monitor activists and censor websites. posted by
adamvasco
at 1:11 PM PST
- 	 6 comments
sometimes things go up, sometimes things go down Go figure: How to succeed in business by doing nothing
Article about variability in business and why it is sometimes better to do nothing.
"You're a dynamic business leader. Let's say you make widgets - though you might equally make big-budget Hollywood movies.
Your widgets, or your movies, vary. Some widgets are perfect, some a tad too long. Some movies make mega-bucks at the box office, some bomb.
So what do you do? Well, you're dynamic, so you react, of course. Something must be done. "
[SLBBC] posted by
marienbad
at 1:06 PM PST
- 	 16 comments
Cybersecurity is an Exaggerated Risk
Jerry Brito and Tate Watkins of George Mason University published a new paper " Loving the Cyber Bomb? The Dangers of Threat Inflation in Cybersecurity Policy " examining the parallels with the US military's other recent exaggerations.
"Cybersecurity is an important policy issue, but the alarmist rhetoric coming out of Washington that focuses on worst-case scenarios is unhelpful and dangerous. Aspects of current cyber policy discourse parallel the run-up to the Iraq War and pose the same dangers. Pre-war threat inflation and conflation of threats led us into war on shaky evidence. By focusing on doomsday scenarios and conflating cyber threats, government officials threaten to legislate, regulate, or spend in the name of cybersecurity based largely on fear, misplaced rhetoric, conflated threats, and credulous reporting. The public should have access to classified evidence of cyber threats, and further examination of the risks posed by those threats, before sound policies can be proposed, let alone enacted. ...
No one wants a “cyber Katrina” or a “digital Pearl Harbor.” But honestly assessing cyber threats and appropriate responses does not mean that we have to learn to stop worrying and love the cyber bomb." posted by
RSaunders
at 12:43 PM PST
- 	 17 comments
The Steely Dan Infographic Project
In which the folks at the
Barryfest
blog attempt to create a chart, diagram, graph or other
visual aid
inspired by each and every
Steely Dan
song posted by
mintcake!
at 12:25 PM PST
- 	 48 comments
'These children don’t recognize the flags of their home countries, but they can all sing "Jesus Loves Me."' The Evangelical Adoption Crusade
[ more inside ] posted by
zarq
at 12:08 PM PST
- 	 137 comments
The Lockerbie Deal
How Britain's largest corporations helped engineer the release of Abdel Basset Ali al-Megrahi, the Lockerbie bomber . posted by
reenum
at 11:49 AM PST
- 	 10 comments
Anyone Feel Like a Slow Jam? The Comic Stylings of Brian Williams.
How’s an anchor to cope when network newscasts keep losing ground? Having a second career helps. posted by
Four-Eyed Girl
at 11:32 AM PST
- 	 62 comments
A hundred years of British cinema
Reflections: a hundred years of British cinema
(six-minute film). Via the
Projected Picture Trust . posted by
paduasoy
at 11:23 AM PST
- 	 5 comments
Spontaneous Speech Cannot be Faked
Achievement Metrics
claims that a player's speech can
predict how he'll perform in the NFL. posted by
beisny
at 10:12 AM PST
- 	 37 comments
A thumb on the nozzle of the internet firehose
Storify
is a new social media platform that makes it easy to assemble and winnow Flickr photos, tweets, Facebook posts, Google search results and URLS into a coherent story.
It went into
public beta
on April 25th.
[ more inside ] posted by
msalt
at 10:11 AM PST
- 	 17 comments
Brothers On Vacation in Hawaii Meet....for the First Time Rick Hill was vacationing in Hawaii.
So was Joe Parker. The two lived within one town of each other in Massachusetts, but discovered on that Hawaiian beach, when Joe offered to take a picture of Rick with his fiancee, that they have the same father. posted by
zizzle
at 9:58 AM PST
- 	 32 comments
Green Flash on a Red Moon
The
green flash
isn't quite the
light show
that some might imagine, but is still impressive. But sunsets aren't alone in producing the green flash - the flash can also
appear above the moon . Up on
Cerro Paranal
in northern Chile,
ESO Photo Ambassador
Gerhard Hüdepohl
has captured a very clear example of the
a green flash above the moon .
[ more inside ] posted by
filthy light thief
at 8:19 AM PST
- 	 18 comments
Writing advice from George Saunders
Writing advice from
George Saunders .
[ via ] posted by
AceRock
at 8:04 AM PST
- 	 30 comments
The 2010 Deepwater Horizon blowout and our energy future
The 2010 Gulf of Mexico Oil Well Blowout: A Little Hindsight
by
Carl Safina . posted by
jjray
at 7:51 AM PST
- 	 5 comments
"I don't give a damn for a man that can only spell a word one way." ~ Mark Twain Eponym,
Nym Words ,
A Dictionary of Medical Eponyms ,
American Proprietary Eponyms , &
Other Proprietary Eponyms . posted by
Fizz
at 7:43 AM PST
- 	 16 comments
When are Krugman and Mankiw just going to make out already, jeez Keynes v. Hayek Rap Battle: Round 2 (SLYT, about 10 mins)
EconStories revives the econ beef to end all beefs.
Previously.
[ more inside ] posted by
dismas
at 7:15 AM PST
- 	 32 comments
Unnatural selection The largest single cause of death of large mammals in North America: hunting
posted by
londonmark
at 5:53 AM PST
- 	 236 comments
Schrodinger's Smartphone
A
new paper
by
William J. Bruno
of the Theoretical Biology & Biophysics group at Los Alamos National Laboratory argues that past arguments about the impossibility of biological tissue damage from cellphone signals have failed to consider a quantum effect whereby multiple photons in a small volume can have constructive interference, and that such an effect likely does occur in practice. Synopsis
here . ( previously )
[ more inside ] posted by
crayz
at 5:33 AM PST
- 	 40 comments
April 27 NYC’s Porn District Moved Indoors to New York Public Libraries
"It’s a safe bet that most hard-core porn watchers anywhere aren’t doing it to expand their minds, and computer keys are germy enough as they are." --
Death and Taxes
[ more inside ] posted by
inkyroom
at 10:48 PM PST
- 	 201 comments
"The Russian people felt that 'we can believe these guys'." The True Battle of Chernobyl (SLYT)
posted by
mexican
at 10:07 PM PST
- 	 20 comments
The Hidden Night
The
Photopic Sky Survey
is a 5,000 megapixel, 360 degree panorama of the entire night sky stitched together from 37,440 exposures. ( via ) posted by
gruchall
at 9:54 PM PST
- 	 25 comments
Is teacher evaluation statistical voodoo? "Value-added modeling is promoted because it has the right pedigree -- because it is based on "sophisticated mathematics."
As a consequence, mathematics that ought to be used to illuminate ends up being used to intimidate."
John Ewing, president of
Math for America
and former executive director of the American Mathematical Society, criticizes the "value-added modeling" approach used as a proxy for teacher quality, most famously in
a Los Angeles Times story
that called out low-scoring teachers by name.
A Brookings Institution paper says
value-added modeling is flawed but the best measure we have of teacher value , arguing that the metric's wide fluctuations from year to year are no worse than those of batting averages in baseball.
(Though the weakness of that correlation
is mostly a BABIP issue .)
Can we assign a numerical value to teacher quality?
If so, how? posted by
escabeche
at 7:01 PM PST
- 	 62 comments
Achievement Porn Achievement Porn
posted by
anotherpanacea
at 6:13 PM PST
- 	 87 comments
Westminster Abbey
How is abbey formed?
How
is
abbey
formed?
How girl get regnant? posted by
East Manitoba Regional Junior Kabaddi Champion '94
at 5:58 PM PST
- 	 255 comments
The Sunset Perspective The Airtight Garage
(some images may be NSFW) is a blog that explores the artwork of Moebius (Jean Giraud), France's most acclaimed comic book artist. It is named after
The Airtight Garage of Jerry Cornelius , a comic loosely based on Micheal Moorcock's
protean hero.
Moebius was recently the subject of an
appreciation in Comics Alliance. posted by
Lovecraft In Brooklyn
at 5:20 PM PST
- 	 49 comments
AT&T MOBILITY LLC, PETITIONER v. VINCENT
CONCEPCION ET UX.
Third, class arbitration greatly increases risks to defendants. Informal procedures do of course have a cost: The absence of multilayered review makes it more likely that errors will go uncorrected. Defendants are willing to accept the costs of these errors in arbitration, since their impact is limited to the size of individual disputes, and presumably outweighed by savings from avoiding the courts. But when damages allegedly owed to tens of thousands of potential claimants are aggregated and decided at once, the risk of an error will often become unacceptable. Faced with even a small chance of a devastating loss, defendants will be pressured into settling questionable claims.
— Justice Scalia delivers the opinion of the Court, and a knife in the back of class-action suits.
[ more inside ] posted by
kipmanley
at 3:23 PM PST
- 	 107 comments
Old Architecture
Images of times past:
abandoned monuments in the former Yugoslavia
and
Soviet era architecture in Bulgaria .
[ more inside ] posted by
kmz
at 12:23 PM PST
- 	 49 comments
800-588-2300...
Lynn Haludren , better known as the
Empire Carpet Man , died
yesterday at the age of 89.
[ more inside ] posted by
Hey Dean Yeager!
at 12:20 PM PST
- 	 83 comments
Rodents Of Unusual Size? I don't think they exist.
I just want to remind everyone that capybara,
previously
mentioned on MetaFilter, are awesome.
The subject of
song
and
poetry ,
capybara
are the world's largest
(non-extinct)
rodent.
This
site has more information, including
a list of zoos
where you might find them and information on capybara
in literature
or
on your dinner plate ,
[ more inside ] posted by
Vibrissa
at 11:41 AM PST
- 	 59 comments
Window Painting
Window Painting
and
What A Wonderful World
from artist
Dan
Berglund . posted by
puny human
at 10:26 AM PST
- 	 1 comment
Pssst. There's a plate missing a clue over at Cloud Gate! Where is the Puck?
The Chicago Blackhawks won the Stanley Cup last season for the first time in 50 years. But what happened to the puck that was used to score what some are calling the "most famous goal in Chicago sports history?" posted by
zarq
at 10:12 AM PST
- 	 133 comments
Hawk Cam
Earlier this month
a pair of red-tailed hawks
built a nest at NYU's Bobst Library, outside the window of the office of University President John Sexton.
Bobby and Violet (named after the Library and NYU's school color) have been sitting on three eggs for the last month, with
a webcam running a live feed .
Based on a photo taken last night and analysis from hawk experts, it is believed that
at least one of the eggs has begun hatching . posted by
XQUZYPHYR
at 10:03 AM PST
- 	 29 comments
Delicious has been sold.
After rumors late last year about the Delicious bookmarking service being shut down, it was just announced that it has been sold.
It's present version will disappear in July 2011.
If you want your bookmarks to be transferred to the new incarnation, you have to
opt in.
According to
a post on the Delicious help pages : "Sorry if we've caught you by surprise. Delicious has been acquired by the founders of YouTube, Chad Hurley and Steve Chen and will become part of their new Internet company, AVOS." posted by
kdern
at 9:58 AM PST
- 	 72 comments
Towers of Swindon
Swindon Viewpoint has recently released a glorious
cache
of rare videos from everyone's favorite English Settlers
XTC ! Please to be finding early
live performaces
by the handsome devils,
early studio versions
of your favorites, earlier still performances by
The Helium Kidz , and even
a lovely tour of Swindon
with mad genius
Andy Partridge ! (Then with hair!)
[ more inside ] posted by
Krazor
at 9:47 AM PST
- 	 23 comments
She is not the one you should fear.
Amina A. is a
Gay Girl in Damascus .
On Tuesday, she was
visited by the Syrian security services . posted by
Rumple
at 9:46 AM PST
- 	 71 comments
The Ace of Spades Wears Orange
Before the iconic Power Rangers, Toei Productions tried some other "Super Sensei" series including 1977's
JAKQ
(pronounced jah-kuh)
with their playing-card-themed identities. With online poker sites down, maybe it's time for them to make a comeback? posted by
oneswellfoop
at 9:45 AM PST
- 	 11 comments
pigs go in, sausage comes out 12 videos of creepy automata
(well, actually only 11, because one of them is no longer online) posted by
luvcraft
at 9:12 AM PST
- 	 18 comments
Giving "The Devil" His Due
Emmanuel
"Toto"
Constant led a paramilitary organization called FRAPH that
terrorized Haiti
after
the overthrow of Jean-Bertrand Aristide . When FRAPH's fortunes declined, Toto mysteriously appeared in New York City, where he was
scorned by the Haitian community . Justice eventually
caught up
to Toto , who is now imprisoned in New York state.
[ more inside ] posted by
reenum
at 8:53 AM PST
- 	 6 comments
Recombinant rainbow poop diagnostics
The
E. chromi
project is forging ahead with its plan, using recombinant bacteria to detect and display disease states of the human body in your toilet.
[ more inside ] posted by
Blasdelb
at 8:14 AM PST
- 	 18 comments
Help me Obi Wan Kenobi. I exist, and I find it nauseating.
What would have happened if a science fiction classic had been written by the father of French philosophy?
Existential Star Wars .
Extra special bonus: a little girl
feels the power of the dark side . posted by
scalefree
at 7:26 AM PST
- 	 26 comments
TSA a Giant Waste of Money
John Mueller and Mark Stewart may have found the one part of government we can afford to cut in their paper " Terror, Security, and Money: Balancing the Risks, Benefits, and Costs of Homeland Security "
From the abstract "The cumulative increase in expenditures on US domestic homeland security over the decade since 9/11 exceeds one trillion dollars. It is clearly time to examine these massive expenditures applying risk assessment and cost-benefit approaches that have been standard for decades." posted by
RSaunders
at 6:36 AM PST
- 	 30 comments
Not a cryptic FPP Vortex-based mathematics
is the most advanced ever known to mankind.
Don't have time for a
time cube ?
Time need no longer limit us.
Here , Marco Rodin (inventor of the
Rodin Coil ) gives us the background. posted by
Obscure Reference
at 5:33 AM PST
- 	 45 comments
SplinterBike
Michael had always claimed he could make anything from wood, and James called his bluff in a big way.
More than 1,000 man hours and a considerable amount of skill and ingenuity later, the
SplinterBike
was ready to ride. posted by
veedubya
at 4:46 AM PST
- 	 39 comments
ACCESS GRANTED Hacker Typer
- Now you can look like you're doing something important on your computer, like you've always wanted to! (hit hack and just start bashing at your keyboard) posted by
azarbayejani
at 4:04 AM PST
- 	 71 comments
"Surely you can question my policies without questioning my faith. Or for that matter my citizenship." - President Obama Handwritten 1961 memo in father's immigration file notes Obama born in Hawaii.
"Documents obtained from the United States Citizenship and Immigration Service through a Freedom of Information Act request offer evidence that President Barack Obama was born in Hawaii. A memo dated Aug. 31, 1961 from William Wood of Immigration and Naturalization Services indicates that Barack Obama, Sr., was attending the University of Hawaii on a student visa and that a son, Barack Obama, II, was born in Honolulu on Aug, 8, 1961."
[ Image of Memo ] posted by
Fizz
at 2:55 AM PST
- 	 719 comments
In Defense of Flogging? Flogging as an alternative to incarceration?
A thoughtful essay that considers flogging as an alternative to incarceration; the author uses this as a rhetorical device to point out the inefficiencies of incarceration, and get a conversation going. Some of the comments in the forum are priceless. posted by
Vibrissae
at 2:35 AM PST
- 	 49 comments
April 26 SETI Institute to shut down alien-seeking radio dishes. SETI Institute to shut down alien-seeking radio dishes.
Lacking the money to pay its operating expenses, Mountain View's SETI Institute has pulled the plug on the renowned Allen Telescope Array, a field of radio dishes that scan the skies for signals from extraterrestrial civilizations. The timing couldn't be worse, say SETI scientists. After millenniums of musings, this spring astronomers announced that 1,235 new possible planets had been observed by Kepler, a telescope on a space satellite. posted by
Leisure_Muffin
at 8:32 PM PST
- 	 146 comments
Moving Beyond the Automobile
Moving Beyond the Automobile
is a series of ten short videos by
Streetfilms
that highlights new directions in urban transportation. It shows how cities in the U.S. are encouraging a shift away from car dependency and making it easier and more pleasant to get around by other means.
[ more inside ] posted by
parudox
at 7:25 PM PST
- 	 36 comments
Moving Through The Paths Not Taken: Viaducts, Freeways and Almost Vancouvers
Despite the
federal election focus
on BC ridings, Vancouverites are
having a hard time looking past the municipal . Things are quite dramatic in the urban planning scene. The city's regional growth plan was recently paralyzed by
disagreement from Coquitlam . TransLink announced permanent cuts to bus service during Earth Week, describing it as
"service optimization,"
highlighting its own
chronic funding issues .
The city successfully s topped a "megacasino" project
after community backlash, but the $3 billion freeway
Gateway Project
continues despite
ongoing protests.
As the city struggles to find its way to the goal of
Greenest City 2020 , it's a good time to look at the paths not taken, via
this excellent podcast on Vancouver's relationship with roadways . Part of a series called " Moving Through " from the
Museum of Vancouver .
[ more inside ] posted by
mek
at 7:05 PM PST
- 	 26 comments
Huey Meaux, record producer, dead at 82
Louisiana-born, Texas-based record producer
Huey Meaux , the so-called "Crazy Cajun", has
died . He was the man behind
Barbara Lynn 's 1962 hit
You'll Lose a Good Thing . Three years later, in a move to cash in on the British Invasion, he created a faux-British rock band called "the Sir Douglas Quintet" around San Antonio-born singer-songwriter
Doug Sahm , and produced their hit,
She's About a Mover . Meaux also produced Tex-Mex rocker
Freddy Fender 's bilingual hit
Before the Next Teardrop Falls
as well as Fender's
Wasted Days and Wasted Nights . Sadly, however, Meaux had a very ugly darker side: he was arrested not once but twice on child-sex charges, doing prison time in the late 60s, and an 11-year bid from '96 to '07. Some of the ugly details of this side of his life are detailed in this
Houston Press article
from 1996, shortly after his arrest, which will pretty much make your skin crawl... Well, so long Huey. posted by
flapjax at midnite
at 5:18 PM PST
- 	 50 comments
Where Have Those Days Gone
Dave Lowery, lead singer and guitarist in Camper Van Beethoven and Cracker, has a new side project: he's started blogging at
300songs.com . Recent topics include
the bands , the labels (both
the good
and
the bad ), and what it's like to
make a living
as a musician, even if you have to
sell out
to do it. posted by
dvorak_beats_qwerty
at 4:08 PM PST
- 	 33 comments
A Novel Approach to the Sexy, Sexy Past Eloisa James weighs in on historical sex scenes.
After attending Penn State's conference on
Historicizing Sex , NY Times Bestselling romance author/ Shakespearean scholar
Eloisa James
writes about how we view our sexual history through a contemporary prism.
[ more inside ] posted by
jenlovesponies
at 2:27 PM PST
- 	 47 comments
PlayStation Network and Qriocity Security Breach
Sony's PlayStation Network and Qriocity have been down since April 20 2011 due to an illegal intrusion. Today
Sony
announced
that user data - birthdate, user name, password, e-mail address, possibly credit card information, and more - has been compromised for its
69
million users, exposing them to identify theft amongst other things.
[ more inside ] posted by
Foci for Analysis
at 1:58 PM PST
- 	 285 comments
Worry about the big stuff, like government
Tim Heidecker endorses Donald Trumps for president posted by
The Devil Tesla
at 1:52 PM PST
- 	 128 comments
Drawing Conan O'Brien Funny Bones
-- Anatomy of a Celebrity Caricature. Artist John Kascht looks for the unique character in Conan O'Brien's face and body. And hair. (Half-hour video) posted by
TimTypeZed
at 1:25 PM PST
- 	 10 comments
Why can't I be a Mantaray?
Mr. Moritz and the Machine ,
How I Came to Work at the Wendy's
and other comics by
Nick St. John .
[ more inside ] posted by
Memo
at 12:28 PM PST
- 	 34 comments
Jazz Orphans A Trove of Historic Jazz Recordings has Found a Home in Harlem, But You Can’t Hear Them
posted by
ryoshu
at 12:12 PM PST
- 	 50 comments
Stock-based executive compenation
Why we should do away with stock-based executive compensation. Three excerpts from a
new book on executive pay
by Roger Martin, dean of the University of Toronto's business school:
The next financial crisis could be right around the corner .
How an economic theory changed the way CEOs get paid .
What the NFL can teach us about executive compensation. posted by
russilwvong
at 12:06 PM PST
- 	 39 comments
Superconductivity Flash Mob
Aw,
a science flash mob . [SLYT] posted by
wpenman
at 12:02 PM PST
- 	 20 comments
Funeral money in the contamination zone: living with Chernobyl, 25 years after the accident
Nadezhda Korotkaya, 77, a widow who lives alone in her small wooden house on the edge of Stary Vyshkov, still remembers the World War II.
"The Germans came and went," she said. "But Chernobyl came here to stay."
It was 25 years ago today that reactor number four at the Chernobyl power plant exploded, following an emergency shutdown ( detailed recounting of the disaster on Wikipedia ).
A memorial was held in Kiev, Ukraine , this morning for the
liquidators
who were the first human responders, with
a bell struck at the exact moment of the Chernobyl explosion on April 26, 1986 . See also: a look back,
with The Big Picture .
[ more inside ] posted by
filthy light thief
at 11:54 AM PST
- 	 23 comments
Phoebe Snow, RIP
Phoebe Snow , singer of 1970s hit ' Poetry Man ,' dies at 60 .
[ more inside ] posted by
nickyskye
at 10:36 AM PST
- 	 46 comments
French Riot Police revolt over beer and wine ban "I don't think the chief of police drinks water when he's having a meal."
Members of the Compagnies Républicaines de Sécurité, the French riot police, are up in arms about a new regulation forbidding them to drink alcohol during the workday.
The ban is said to be a reaction to
widely publicized photos of riot police drinking beer while policing a high-school student demonstration
in Perreux-sur-Marne. posted by
escabeche
at 9:40 AM PST
- 	 107 comments
Photographic Immortality The Burns Archive
is a collection of over 700,000 historical photographs that document
disturbing
subject matter: obsolete medical practices and experiments, death, disease, disasters, crime, revolutions, riots and war. Newsweek posted a
select gallery
this past October, as well as a
video interview and walk-through
with curator and collector Dr. Stanley B. Burns, a New York opthalmologist.
( Via )
(Content at links may be disturbing to some.)
[ more inside ] posted by
zarq
at 9:35 AM PST
- 	 15 comments
I'd love to watch Gary take it all off !
Warning -
Man with mullet performing erotic 80's porno movie dance gyration thingy . posted by
sgt.serenity
at 9:12 AM PST
- 	 67 comments
Better Living Through Guerilla Parking Ticket Art
Suffering from emotional distress caused by receiving a parking ticket? Not to worry -- members of NYC's
Parking Ticket Emotional Reclamation Project
places a therapeutic hand-written note with art into the ticket envelope in hopes to "restore emotional balance to New York, The World, The Universe." posted by
bayani
at 9:09 AM PST
- 	 11 comments
Finding the Edge Google Translated from nub1an's livejournal
Some stunning wilderness-travelogue photography from Russian trekker and (self-described-)amateur photographer "nub1an" (Ilya Kondrashov).
Untranslated link . posted by
J0
at 8:58 AM PST
- 	 10 comments
About as funny as it ever is
After 107 submissions, Roger Ebert wins The New Yorker cartoon caption contest.
Ebert's earlier
blog
about captioning.
[ more inside ] posted by
codacorolla
at 8:17 AM PST
- 	 103 comments
Michael Hansmeyer: Computational Architecture
Michael Hansmeyer: Computational Architecture .
Subdivision: Ornamented Columns
--
"A full-scale, 2.7-meter high variant of the columns is fabricated as a layered model using 1mm sheet. Each sheet is individually cut using a mill or laser. Sheets are stacked and held together by poles that run through a common core."
[ more inside ] posted by
Gator
at 7:04 AM PST
- 	 17 comments
Just five years from now. IMF bombshell: Age of America nears end.
According to the
latest IMF official forecasts , China’s economy will surpass that of America in real terms in 2016 — just five years from now.
[ more inside ] posted by
three blind mice
at 7:00 AM PST
- 	 160 comments
Something great and fun and serious and magical. New York to L.A.
By
taxi . For
$5,000 .
Now they're headed
home . posted by
xowie
at 6:43 AM PST
- 	 37 comments
Nature Special Issue on the Future of the PhD
Mark Taylor.
Reform the PhD system or close it down .
Nature
472 , 261 (2011)
[ more inside ] posted by
jeffburdges
at 6:34 AM PST
- 	 54 comments
Strangers, Again
Strangers, Again , a short film by
Wong Fu Productions , takes viewers on an introspective journey through
the stages of a romantic relationship . ( Previous
Wong Fu Production films on Metafilter) posted by
SkylitDrawl
at 6:07 AM PST
- 	 2 comments
Brandon Mississippi shows how to deal with Westboro Baptist Church Simple and effective!
While there was
dismay and discussion
about the Supreme Court ruling that allows Westboro to continue their protests, a small town in Rankin County, Mississippi shows we don't need laws to effectively keep them away. posted by
kthanksbai
at 5:43 AM PST
- 	 116 comments
Goodbye, Blue Sky The Blue Sky In Games campaign
is an old but still relevant call to embrace bright colors and happy themes in videogames. It's the opposite of the currently prevailing
Real Is Brown
style. Because of cheerful Sega games like
Outrun
and
Afterburner , it is often referred to as 'Sega Blue Skies'. posted by
Lovecraft In Brooklyn
at 5:33 AM PST
- 	 33 comments
Oh Cancer, Up Yours
"I said that I wasn't a sex symbol and that if anybody tried to make me one I'd shave my head tomorrow".
The rumors have been swirling all day, but sadly appear to be confirmed -
Marianne Joan Elliot-Said
aka punk legend Poly Styrene
has passed away
after battling breast cancer. Her new album ,
Generation
Indigo
is scheduled to be released today.
[ more inside ] posted by
louche mustachio
at 2:02 AM PST
- 	 100 comments
Support for democracy is the province of ideologists and propagandists. Is the World Too Big to Fail?
[ more inside ] posted by
Shit Parade
at 12:37 AM PST
- 	 62 comments
April 25 Freedom of Speech or Human Rights Violation?
Vancouver comedian Guy Earle and the restaurant he was performing at
were fined a combined C$22,500
by the British Columbia Human Rights Tribunal after a 2007 incident where Earle mocked a member of the audience.
[ more inside ] posted by
inturnaround
at 11:11 PM PST
- 	 190 comments
IstyOsty and KittenBlock
What's
IstyOsty ? Well suppose you want to look at an article in the Daily Mail...
[ more inside ] posted by
the latin mouse
at 10:53 PM PST
- 	 15 comments
They were going for edginess
Kids shouldn't be given cooking shows —or maybe they
should. posted by
Taft
at 10:01 PM PST
- 	 28 comments
"The first improvement in toilet paper since the 1880s"
In 2009, Telebrands Corporation released the
Comfort Wipe.
But that's not all! Josh Rimer introduces... the Comfortable Stick!
Because toilet paper is so archaic and disgusting.
(NSFW at all, at all) posted by
dunkadunc
at 7:18 PM PST
- 	 65 comments
Joi Ito named director of MIT Media Lab
MIT is expected to announce tomorrow its naming of Joichi Ito as head of the MIT Media Lab (NYTimes) . This is noteworthy because rather than being a star of academia, design, or engineering, he is a 44-year-old venture capitalist.
[ more inside ] posted by
thedaniel
at 5:02 PM PST
- 	 78 comments
Please don't Litter Cute overload
The Shiba Inu Puppy Cam has returned, this is the third (and, according to the site, last)
litter from the original puppy cam dog mom that we've seen before.
Take a break from the world... posted by
tomswift
at 4:45 PM PST
- 	 36 comments
"Your dad was meta as fuck" Dads. The Original Hipsters.
posted by
ob
at 3:56 PM PST
- 	 107 comments
Gotta die sometime and from something. What Is Good for the Heart May Not Be Good for the Prostate, Study Suggests.
In a major study that appears to overturn a lot of
previous research , the largest and most authoritative study ever to examine the association of dietary fats and prostate cancer risk has found an inverse association in the effect of Omega-3 fatty acids in heart disease and in prostate cancer. A lot of recent conventional wisdom has been upended, with the role of all fatty acids undergoing substantial revisions in our understanding.
[ more inside ] posted by
VikingSword
at 3:51 PM PST
- 	 120 comments
This view of time does not look encouraging for time travelers
The concept of time as a way to measure the duration of events is not only deeply intuitive, it also plays an important role in our mathematical descriptions of physical systems. For instance, we define an object’s speed as its displacement per a given time.
But some researchers theorize that this Newtonian idea of time as an absolute quantity that flows on its own, along with the idea that time is the fourth dimension of spacetime, are incorrect.
They propose to replace these concepts of time with a view that corresponds more accurately to the physical world: time as a measure of the numerical order of change. posted by
finite
at 2:01 PM PST
- 	 127 comments
No Marriage Until Gay Marriage Is Legal
The
Douglass Blvd. Christian Church
in
Louisville, Kentucky
has voted to
stop
signing
marriage
licenses
until gay marriage is legalized by the state. posted by
reenum
at 1:21 PM PST
- 	 87 comments
"Cultivated leisure is the aim of man."
"Jersey Shore" Gone Wilde
[ more inside ] posted by
redyaky
at 1:14 PM PST
- 	 40 comments
SINCE THE YEAR 2000
Adam Buxton
reviews YouTube comments posted by
mippy
at 12:24 PM PST
- 	 50 comments
Make Some Noise
"Good people, unfortunately due to circumstances beyond our control, the "clean" version of our new album, The Hot Sauce Committee pt 2 has leaked. So as a hostile and retaliatory measure with great hubris we are making the full explicit aka filthy dirty nasty version
available for streaming on our new site . We hope this brings much happiness, hugs, and harmony. Enjoy Kikoos for life!"
[ more inside ] posted by
nickheer
at 11:32 AM PST
- 	 60 comments
Think again, again
Every year, nine million children under five die from preventable diseases such as diarrhea and malaria. Often, the treatments for these diseases are cheap, safe, and readily available. So why don't people pick these 'low-hanging fruit'? Why don’t mothers vaccinate their children? Why don’t families use bednets, or buy chlorinated water? And why do they spend such large amounts of money on ineffective cure instead?
Poor Economics
is a book and website by Abhijit V. Banerjee and Esther Duflo. It has maps, graphs, and data drawn from the research at MIT's
Poverty Action Lab . It is currently being
reviewed
and discussed ( 1 ,
2 ,
3 ) at the Economist. BONUS: Duflo
discusses the book
and
Randomized Controlled Trials
(Wikipedia:
RCT ). posted by
anotherpanacea
at 11:11 AM PST
- 	 46 comments
The 98-year-old judo master After nearly a century, Keiko Fukuda still lives for judo [video].
Earlier this month, Fukuda turned 98. The last surviving student of Judo founder
Jigoro Kano , she
teaches classes in the Bay Area
despite having lived nearly a century. Fukuda, at 9th degree black belt, is the highest-ranking woman in judo history.
[ more inside ] posted by
jeffmshaw
at 10:01 AM PST
- 	 22 comments
Flying the Flag, Fleeing the State
Flags
of
Convenience
allow ship owners to register ships to countries other than their own.
More than half of current merchant ships are registered under them.
As you might imagine, such a system
can
lead
to abuse .
In an op-ed in today's New York Times,
Rose George suggests some changes.
[ more inside ] posted by
beisny
at 9:51 AM PST
- 	 15 comments
2011 on track to be the worst year for wildfires in Texas history Texas is burning.
Despite it being only April, due to severe drought conditions,
over 1.8 million acres have already burned throughout the state , which could soon surpass the two million acre record set in 2006. Here are the
10 largest current wildfires as seen from orbit .
[ more inside ] posted by
Unicorn on the cob
at 9:42 AM PST
- 	 53 comments
The Philanthropist "Godman"
"For the progress of humanity, work alone is not adequate, but the work should be associated with love, compassion, right conduct, truthfulness and sympathy. Without the above qualities, selfless service cannot be performed."
On
Sunday morning , Indian guru Sri Sathya Sai Baba
passed away.
He leaves behind a massive
empire , several million
mourning devotees worldwide,
an
extensive religious philosophy , a great deal of
controversy
and a legacy of large-scale philanthropic projects in India, including
free hospitals and mobile medical facilities ,
a free university and schools,
and other efforts which included supplying
clean water
to hundreds of rural villages.
[ more inside ] posted by
zarq
at 9:19 AM PST
- 	 41 comments
Get your pussy willows and squirt guns ready! Happy Dyngus Day!
Like St. Patrick's Day for the
Polish. posted by
ridiculous
at 8:37 AM PST
- 	 22 comments
"The man who gave comics its memory" Bill Blackbeard 1926-2011
Bill Blackbeard, founder of the San Francisco Academy of Comic Art, passed away March 10. The Comics Journal calls him "without question or quibble
the only absolutely indispensable figure in the history of comics scholarship
for the last quarter century."
[ more inside ] posted by
jessamyn
at 8:28 AM PST
- 	 14 comments
Making of an Hourglass The making of an hourglass.
[SLVimeo] posted by
odinsdream
at 7:41 AM PST
- 	 19 comments
Tractatus Digito-Philosophicus "This is a somewhat odd venture: a translation of Wittgenstein's Tractatus into the domain of software development."
Wait, not so crazy,
Harrison Ainsworth explains , "Central in the Tractatus is the concept of the ‘proposition’: a statement about the world that can be true or false. It is a logical artifact used to describe the world (and so links logic and world together). This maps straightforwardly to software: a proposition becomes a program. Where a proposition describes the world, a program constructs the imagination, or intended-world – an artifact. A program is like an executable proposition." posted by
geoff.
at 6:44 AM PST
- 	 29 comments
Bourbon: Is there anything it can't do? The Bourbon-Powered Car of the Future... TODAY!
posted by
.kobayashi.
at 6:36 AM PST
- 	 26 comments
Robot Elephant!
(notes on) biology , a short stop-motion animation (5.39) by ornana films, features a robot elephant. You have to wait a bit, but it's worth it. Stuff gets good at about 2.25. posted by
bwg
at 6:00 AM PST
- 	 8 comments
"Police in the US now rival criminals, and exceed terrorists as the greatest threat to the American public."
A federal justice report on policing in New Orleans since 2009 presents damning evidence of brutality, cop misconduct and systemic abuse of black citizens post-Katrina. The city’s jails are not far behind.
No limits to the law in NoLa posted by
fearfulsymmetry
at 2:56 AM PST
- 	 111 comments
The cold, incompetent stupidity of the system
Massive leak reveals secret dossiers on 759 captives
The Guantanamo Files
New York Times
and
Guardian
( ) For all the sensitive types that can't read actual wikileak files with out having tanks on your lawn or SWAT teams down your chimney, please rest assured that none of my links here or inside lead directly to *sekrets* )
[ more inside ] posted by
adamvasco
at 1:37 AM PST
- 	 391 comments
April 24 Rumor Sweeping World's Science Community that CERN's LHC has Detected the Higgs Boson -The "God Particle" Rumor Sweeping World's Science Community that CERN's LHC has Detected the Higgs Boson -The "God Particle"
The controversial rumor is based on what appears to be a leaked internal note from physicists at CERN's Large Hadron Collider (LHC), a 17-mile-long particle accelerator near Geneva, Switzerland. It's not certain at this point if the memo is authentic, or what the data it refers to might mean — but the note
has sent the physics community into full buzz mode. posted by
Leisure_Muffin
at 10:21 PM PST
- 	 102 comments
Pufnstuf Pogo-fied: Living Island
Living Island
is
Pogo 's latest bit of audio-visual remixery, using
H.R. Pufnstuf
as the source. Bonus bits inside.
[ more inside ] posted by
filthy light thief
at 9:18 PM PST
- 	 27 comments
So, I'm not a racist but... How to tell people they sound racist
[ more inside ] posted by
Blasdelb
at 8:04 PM PST
- 	 161 comments
Botswana's Cowboy Metalheads Atlas Hoods: Botswana's Cowboy Metalheads
( via ) . posted by
nasreddin
at 7:41 PM PST
- 	 35 comments
On top of spaghetti, all covered in cheese... Tom Junod writes about cooking, his mother, and mashed potatoes.
[ more inside ] posted by
WalterMitty
at 7:20 PM PST
- 	 14 comments
Renovation
Blogging the Hugos: Decline
( part 1 ,
part 2 ,
part 3 ), is a series of blog posts covering some dystopian trends in recent Hugo nominees and itself
winner
of the
of the BSFA award for non fiction. Meanwhile the 2011 Hugo finalists
have been announced , with Mefi favorites featuring strongly: In Best Novella
The Lifecycle of Software Objects
by Ted Chiang ( previously ), In Best Short Story
The Things
by Peter Watts ( previously ). Doctor who features heavily under Best Dramatic Presentation, Short Form ( too many posts to mention ), but has strong competition from
Fuck Me, Ray Bradbury . posted by
Artw
at 7:06 PM PST
- 	 27 comments
More voices you won’t hear in the election campaign
Though mentioned intermittently, Mr. Harper's determination to muzzle critics will not be a
“ballot box question”
for most Canadians when they vote. Yet the implications for a Canada ruled by an unrestrained Harper majority government are obvious, and terrifying. The
Canadian Centre for Policy Alternatives
has now published an excellent commentary by Maria Gergin called
“Silencing Dissent: The Conservative Record” . [ via Gerald Caplan for the Globe and Mail ]
[ more inside ] posted by
ServSci
at 6:59 PM PST
- 	 34 comments
cheetah and lion whisperers
Cheetah woman
-
lion man , big cat whisperers.
[ more inside ] posted by
nickyskye
at 6:35 PM PST
- 	 11 comments
Seoul through music videos
Seoul as seen through music videos, whether driving ( 1 ,
2 ), sitting ( 3 ), running ( 4 ), or walking ( 5 ).
[ more inside ] posted by
needled
at 6:32 PM PST
- 	 5 comments
Get Drunk But Neither Broke Nor Fat
If you ever needed to know which booze has the most alcohol,
the fewest calories , and
costs the least , but were too lazy to do the math yourself, there is now
Get Drunk But Neither Broke Nor Fat .
previously posted by
spitefulcrow
at 4:59 PM PST
- 	 130 comments
You Are Awesome
Webstock!
The best little web design (and development, and content) conference around. The kind of place with
opening credits ,
swag that includes confidence-boosting pencils , all the
free ice-cream
you can eat, and
NZ Sign Language interpreters for the whole event .
Also, lots and lots of clever people talking.
[ more inside ] posted by
roobot
at 4:31 PM PST
- 	 11 comments
Cthulhu Anesti!
Today is a day to celebrate the Risen God. I mean, of course, Cthulhu, that most adorable of Old Ones, who stars in
The Adventures of Lil Cthulhu . If you haven't been eaten yet and need to waste time until then,
The Calls for Cthulhu series
is a nice way to distract yourself from your impending doom. If all that cuteness isn't enough, or perhaps too much, then you might want to check out oldie but goodie
Cutethulhu . posted by
Kattullus
at 3:21 PM PST
- 	 35 comments
Puss 'N Boots
Cat videos, we've all seen them. They are in fact the lingua franca of the internet. But none of them, believe me, can quite prepare you for the pure psychedelic strangeness that is
Puss
'N
Boots . From the wonder world of
K. Gordon
Murray , the same man who gave us
Santa Claus
And His
Helpers . posted by
puny human
at 12:56 PM PST
- 	 30 comments
"Oookun oooo uuva engs ooo. Oookun uhtawn ocean."
Victoria Looseleaf's mesmerizingly WTF facial-stretch video
set to Placido Domingo has been making the rounds this weekend. But who is
Victoria Looseleaf ?
[ more inside ] posted by
BeerFilter
at 12:17 PM PST
- 	 45 comments
Making Ebenezer Scrooge look like an ok guy
Children in foster care in Michigan get an allowance for clothing. Republican State Senator Bruce Caswell wants to limit their clothing purchases to
thrift stores only . posted by
helloknitty
at 11:04 AM PST
- 	 241 comments
A Modest Proposal
Gearbox Software
helps a fan with
a modest proposal .
(with some help from
Borderlands'
Claptrap
and
Anthony
from " Hey Ash, Whatcha Playin'? " posted by
empath
at 9:36 AM PST
- 	 29 comments
Portraits of Iraqis by Daniel Heyman
I am an artist who by a stroke of good fortune met a brave American lawyer who represents
several
hundred
Iraqi
detainees
in the US federal courts....the
Iraqis I interviewed , released by the American military after many months or years of detention, were never formally accused of a crime, brought to a trial or given legal representation.
Daniel Heyman
paints
and
draws
while sitting in on interviews between former Abu Ghraib detainees and their lawyer Susan Burke.
Interview
(including Heyman's thoughts about Errol Morris' documentary
Standard Operating Procedure ).
Review .
Another gallery . Related:
The Detainee Project .
Via
zunguzungu .
[ more inside ] posted by
mediareport
at 9:22 AM PST
- 	 5 comments
To Crank and Crank Cranking.
"She couldn't really help my Dad. My Dad couldn't really help her. But they sure tried. She cranked and cranked. I was seven. I didn't know how to help anyone."
- A brief essay on life, happiness and work by Merlin Mann. posted by
Memo
at 8:15 AM PST
- 	 50 comments
The frozen desert
Huge cache of frozen carbon dioxide found on Mars. posted by
The Whelk
at 7:50 AM PST
- 	 45 comments
Artis Gilmore elected to NBA Hall of Fame
Update: In Sept. '09 I
posted about Artis Gilmore
being denied his place in the Basketball Hall Of Fame.
Injustice
rectified .
[ more inside ] posted by
planetkyoto
at 7:50 AM PST
- 	 9 comments
BBC Radio 4 Collections BBC Radio 4 now has a dedicated online program library!
Rather than hunting through the site, you can now browse by subject and/or program from one main 'Collections' page. It's not all of the output by any means, but there's plenty there to keep you going, such as
the philosophy archives from Melvyn Bragg's "In Our Time" , or
various mathematics programs
from different series. There's much much more as well.
[ more inside ] posted by
carter
at 6:14 AM PST
- 	 11 comments
Take this song and cover it!
Straight outta the Department of Obscure and Unlikely Covers, here's
Hank Crawford's version
of Johnny Paycheck's
Take This Job and Shove It .
[ more inside ] posted by
flapjax at midnite
at 5:41 AM PST
- 	 59 comments
At the end of the day
The
Jeremy Kyle Show
has been described as ' human bear-baiting ', but the programme itself makes great claims about the good it does.
So what happens when the cameras stop rolling?
At the end of the day...
Previous posted by
fearfulsymmetry
at 2:21 AM PST
- 	 26 comments
April 23 Microbe Wiki MicrobeWiki
is a free wiki resource on microbes and microbiology
[ more inside ] posted by
Confess, Fletch
at 9:53 PM PST
- 	 6 comments
I learned to program... I learned to program...
[ more inside ] posted by
Blazecock Pileon
at 8:26 PM PST
- 	 119 comments
Packa Pappas Kappsäck Micheal Johansson
makes installation art
(that doesn't suck -Ed.)
from household items posted by
mhjb
at 8:00 PM PST
- 	 15 comments
Fire in the Hole: R.I.P., Hazel Dickens
Hazel Dickens , bluegrass and country singer, daughter of West Virginia, half of the singing group Hazel & Alice, and a voice for American miners,
died on Friday at a hospice in Washington, D.C.
She was 75.
[ more inside ] posted by
MonkeyToes
at 6:52 PM PST
- 	 25 comments
From Me To You
If you like the subtle and lean animated gifs of
If We Don't, Remember ME
( previously ) you'll probably like the ones at
From Me To You
(via
this
ask metafilter question) posted by
aerotive
at 6:11 PM PST
- 	 22 comments
The shortest distance between two points is often uninteresting
Oakland artist
Momoko Sudo
paints
lines .
One
at
a
time ,
free - hand . posted by
Pirate-Bartender-Zombie-Monkey
at 6:08 PM PST
- 	 16 comments
Ebru Aqueous Surface Art
The Internet can be a powerful tool when it comes to collaborations between artists of all ilks. Laptop band Project Jenny, Project Jan harnessed said power when it set out to create a video for its new song,
“Lucky Me,”
producing a lovely, painterly video courtesy of a Turkish
Ebrû
artist the band had never met.
Hikmet Barutçugil
redefined the aspects of Ebrû with a scientific approach and managed to transfuse marbling into other disciplines, from architecture to popular crafts.
[ more inside ] posted by
netbros
at 5:29 PM PST
- 	 1 comment
Never has something more accurately been called a teaser trailer
Terraria
is a recently announced game that is currently in closed alpha.
It is similar in play style to the Internet favorite
Minecraft
( previously , and
previously-er ,
and
previously-er ), except it operates in a 2D, sidescrolling world.
Players harvest resources to craft items and structures to defend themselves against enemies.
A teaser trailer is available
here , and a more extensive gameplay trailer is available
here .
The developers are currently uploading "let's play" videos on to their youtube account:
part one here , and
part two here .
[ more inside ] posted by
codacorolla
at 4:11 PM PST
- 	 46 comments
This is what Bill Watterson has been up to
Cul de Sac
is a daily newspaper cartoon by DC-area artist Richard Thompson ( previously ). In July of 2009, Thompson
announced on his blog
that he had been diagnosed with Parkinsons's disease. Earlier this year, friends of Thompson launched
Team Cul de Sac , a fundraising project for Parkinson's research. The project has been accepting donations of artwork by cartoonists, to be published and sold in a book later this year. One recent donation to Team Cul de Sac is particularly noteworthy:
a brand new painting by Bill Watterson .
[ more inside ] posted by
eggplantplacebo
at 3:51 PM PST
- 	 10 comments
The Mark of Cain
" The Mark of Cain " is a 73 minute documentary by Alix Lambert about Russian prison tattoos and the " Thieves-in-law " who often wear the tattoos.
[ more inside ] posted by
selton
at 2:46 PM PST
- 	 22 comments
Andreas Cellarius and his Harmonia Macrocosmica Andreas Cellarius
was a scholar of the 17th Century who produced one of the most famous cosmological atlases of all time, Harmonia Macrocosmica, featuring
29 beautiful plates
(large, high-quality scans), illustrating various aspects of the Universe as understood by the Western science of his time. It's impossible to pick favorites among them, but here are three examples:
Phases of the Moon ,
Sizes of the Celestial Bodies
and
Stars and Constellations of the Northern Sky . posted by
Kattullus
at 2:46 PM PST
- 	 16 comments
May your remains one day be discovered by someone with a strong grounding in Middle Range Theory
Lewis R. Binford , one of the most influential American archaeologists of the last half-century and an early advocate of a more scientific approach to investigating ancient cultures, died on April 11 at his home in Kirksville, Mo. He was 79.
[ more inside ] posted by
infinite intimation
at 1:58 PM PST
- 	 7 comments
The Sabich
The
Sabich
is
a
popular Israeli pita sandwich based on the traditional
Babylonian - Jewish
Shabbat morning meal.
It it is usually seasoned with
Amba , the mango pickle condiment of Indian Origin which the
Baghdadi
Jewish
community
of India brought to Baghdad (along with
Sambusak , a variant of the Simosa).
[ more inside ] posted by
beisny
at 12:40 PM PST
- 	 15 comments
I had that darn cell phone just a minute ago... Where's My Cell Phone?
Can't find your cell phone? No one around to call it for you? This may help. posted by
St. Alia of the Bunnies
at 12:26 PM PST
- 	 42 comments
John Passmore Edwards "He did more good in his time than almost any other of his contemporaries"
This week marks the 100th anniversary of the death of John
Passmore
Edwards . Philanthropist, activist, MP, journalist,
editor
and
proprietor ,
chartist and pacifist ,
campaigner for peace , for the abolition of capital publishment and flogging and for
provision of free libraries . His
autobiography .
[ more inside ] posted by
biffa
at 11:37 AM PST
- 	 3 comments
Powerhouse
It was written by
Raymond Scott
in 1937, and first heard by the world played by the Raymond Scott Quintette on CBS Radio's Saturday Night Swing Club.
It was first recorded in 1937 and released by Master Records.
It was later re-released by Brunswick and then Columbia.
It contains a middle section that has a greatly different tempo and style from the rest of the song, to the degree that it is sometimes considered to be two different songs.
It was a popular tune of its time.
Among Raymond Scott's admirers was Carl Stalling, music director for Warner Bros. cartoons.
Stalling's appreciation for Scott lead to
his music being featured frequently in Warner cartoons .
Itself, it has been used in dozens of classic cartoons, especially in places depicting rapid motion or heavy machinery.
Despite this, no Warner cartoon contains a complete version of the work.
It's now so recognized from its use in cartoons that most people can probably hum portions of its middle potion, and recognize the rest, even if they don't know it's name.
It's so connected with cartoons that Cartoon Network used it as a distinctive bumper tune from 1997 to 2003.
Regardless of its iconic nature, it's still in copyright and is controlled in the US by Music Sales Corporation, and elsewhere by Warner/Chappell Music.
That song is called " Powerhouse ."
[ more inside ] posted by
JHarris
at 11:34 AM PST
- 	 62 comments
Your price is lifting mine higher— A $23,698,655.93 book about flies.
posted by
kipmanley
at 11:05 AM PST
- 	 58 comments
Wibbly wobbley timey wimey samey wamey
Last year, BBC America noticed a spike in piracy of Doctor Who episodes as fans were either frustrated with the 2 week gap between UK and US premiere and/or spoilers and gossip everywhere. The solution, as demonstrated by shows like
The Walking Dead , seems to be
to broadcast world wide on the same day .
[ more inside ] posted by
ZeusHumms
at 10:36 AM PST
- 	 341 comments
“Yes, that’s what I want to do – develop visionable avatars.” Comedian Stewart Lee on not wanting to be a "content provider"
posted by
Artw
at 9:15 AM PST
- 	 47 comments
It's alive, again!
Days after Google Video
announced
the
impending death
of Google Video, prompting
jscott
to start archiving as many videos as
the Archive team
could and a subsequent
Metafilter post on the best of Google Video , it turns out that Google has
relented
and removed the deadline. It will also be migrating the videos over to Youtube. posted by
titantoppler
at 8:58 AM PST
- 	 33 comments
The Thunderclown
Fall in love with
Mr. Momus . See the new videosongs from his soon to be released EP, the
Thunderclown :
Shangri-La
::
Willow Pattern
::
We Don't Have To Make Children
::
I Want To Be Good
::
The Teacher
::
Midas
::
The Thunderclown
:: Produced in collaboration with John Henriksson of
Tona
Serenad . posted by
puny human
at 8:44 AM PST
- 	 9 comments
We're going to need to talk about these false positives on your next performance review, boy shepherd.
Cracked.com and
VirusComix
join forces to present:
Non-bullshit Fables . posted by
Eideteker
at 7:50 AM PST
- 	 19 comments
The Gutsiest Gal to Ever Gather News! The Evolution of April O’Neil.
posted by
Fizz
at 5:12 AM PST
- 	 63 comments
Happy Easter, bunny! Just in time for Easter,
Simon's Cat meets a bunny. posted by
tomswift
at 3:49 AM PST
- 	 28 comments
Interactive toothpick sculpture of SF Man unveils interactive toothpick sculpture of San Francisco that took 35 years to create
. Mindblowing. (single vimeo link) posted by
the_bone
at 12:43 AM PST
- 	 56 comments
April 22 This is daddy. His head is shaped like a decayed turnip.
Children's drawings painted realistically. posted by
KevinSkomsvold
at 11:57 PM PST
- 	 33 comments
Shunned House for Sale For Sale: One Shunned House.
The house at 135 Benefit Street, Providence RI is for sale. This house was the inspiration for H.P. Lovecraft's short story
The Shunned House . Even without the Lovecraft connection, the house has
an eerie history . It can be yours for $925,000. posted by
marxchivist
at 8:24 PM PST
- 	 34 comments
Papers and More on Data Mining
It has applications in
health care ,
pharmaceuticals ,
facial recognition ,
economics/related areas , and of course,
much much more . Previously, MeFi discussed
controversial homeland security applications , and
the nexus between social networking and mobile devices
that further contributes to the pool.
With plenty to dig into , let's talk
Data Mining
in more detail.
[ more inside ] posted by
JoeXIII007
at 7:15 PM PST
- 	 14 comments
we can't be happy underground
Something
wonderful
is
happening .
gaiman/palm/folds/kulash/awesome-music-filter posted by
es_de_bah
at 6:00 PM PST
- 	 50 comments
Did you get my good side?
50 pictures of Basset Hounds running .
If you aren't satisfied with just pictures, well there's videos of Basset Hounds running in slow motion ( 1 , 2 ) and videos of them shaking in slow motion ( 1 , 2 ). posted by
MaryDellamorte
at 5:29 PM PST
- 	 34 comments
The wreck of the web.
It wasn't supposed to be like this. Amazon.com's
Elastic Compute Cloud
(EC2)
crashed yesterday , taking with it popular sites like Reddit, Quora, Foursquare, Hootsuite, Act.ly, and about 70 other sites. Amazon.com was affected, as was some functionality of the New York Times. Amazon Web Service's
Health Dashboard
indicates that there are still major operating disturbances.
[ more inside ] posted by
2bucksplus
at 4:01 PM PST
- 	 135 comments
How These Two White Guys Wound Up In This Kendrick Perkins Family Photo
Deadspin tells
the story
of the unlikely friendship between Kendrick Perkins of the Oklahoma City Thunder and two fans. posted by
reenum
at 3:02 PM PST
- 	 22 comments
Atlantropa: Dam in the Straits of Gibraltar and Flood Africa
The
Canal des Deux Mers
connected the Atlantic to the Mediterranean, the
Zuiderzee Works
reclaimed part of shallow inlet of the North Sea to expand the Netherlands, so why not
try taming the Mediterranean and irrigating Africa ? Part
ocean reclamation , part
power generation
( the "white coal" of falling water ),
Atlantropa
wasn't simply
the stuff of science fiction .
First called Panropa , it was
the long-term goal of a German architect and engineer named Herman Sörgel , a dream that lasted until his death in 1952, and the Atlantropa Institute continued on another 8 years.
[ more inside ] posted by
filthy light thief
at 2:45 PM PST
- 	 17 comments
"Brilliant, audacious, and exuberant Hahn-Bin mesmerized the sold-out crowd."
" Hahn-Bin , a
22-year-old protégé
of the eminent violinist Itzhak Perlman ... holds Mozart and
Warhol
in equal esteem ... [ he 's] a rare bridge between Carnegie Hall, where he [made] his mainstage debut on March 13, and the Boom Boom Room [at The Standard Hotel], where he
performed
at a
party
hosted by V Magazine
during New York Fashion Week." *
[ more inside ] posted by
ericb
at 2:37 PM PST
- 	 14 comments
'Bizness' Remember interesting music videos?
[SLYT]
The musical group tUnE-yArDs, fronted by Merrill Garbus,
has been
linked before , but I just stumbled across
this video .
For her song 'Bizness'
from her recently released [on 4AD] album. Think Peter Gabriel in his ethnomusical-borrowing days, with a splash of
Deep Forest
-- and the video's worth watching, too. Not your usual girl with a ukelele. posted by
benito.strauss
at 2:33 PM PST
- 	 29 comments
Climategate Climategate: What Really Happened?
How climate science became the target of "the best-funded, best-organized smear campaign by the wealthiest industry that the Earth has ever known."
[ Via ] posted by
homunculus
at 1:46 PM PST
- 	 73 comments
Asian ceiling? High-achieving Asian-American students are being shut out of top schools around the country. Is this what diversity looks like now?
"'There’s a form of redlining or holding Asian-American students to higher standards than any other group.' Although Asian-Americans represent less than 5 percent of the US population (and slightly more than 5 percent in Massachusetts), they make up as much as 20 percent of students at many highly selective private research universities – the kind of schools that make it into top 50 national rankings. But, critics charge, Asian-American students would constitute an even larger share if many weren’t being filtered out during the admissions process."
[ more inside ] posted by
VikingSword
at 12:22 PM PST
- 	 421 comments
Genius is being used a little loosely here
How Genius Works.
The Atlantic asks artists like T.C. Boyle, Tim Burton, Paul Simon, and Frank Gehry (and others who aren't so well-known) to describe their creative process. posted by
helloknitty
at 12:01 PM PST
- 	 68 comments
"MY MINIONS HAVE FAILED ME. YOUR DOOM AWAITS IN MY CHAMBER!"
Friday Flash Fun :
Realm of the Mad God
is a co-op MMORPG shooter with cute 8-bit graphics . Death is permanent, play addictive.
[ more inside ] posted by
goodnewsfortheinsane
at 10:41 AM PST
- 	 18 comments
Going to the extreme with coupon clipping
Was
J'aime Kirlew , self-proclaimed "Diva for Coupons" and participant on
TLC's Extreme Couponing
shown
committing fraud ? Many
couponers
(discussion begins with second comment on the page) think she's done it before going on TLC (youtube links in thread may be broken). Bud Miller from the The Coupon Information Corporation says
"This whole thing is kind of sad." . Fraud may be reduced with implementation of the
GS1 databar
(wikipedia) which contains more data than the traditional UPC code. posted by
vespabelle
at 9:58 AM PST
- 	 137 comments
Abstract Expressionism lives!
Meet
Carolyn J. Martin .
She
makes
art
by
igniting
gunpowder
on
canvas . posted by
Afroblanco
at 9:55 AM PST
- 	 18 comments
Custom Robot Toys in Afghanistan
PFC Rupert Valero is a U.S. soldier stationed in Afghanistan who makes
amazing custom toy robots
out of recycled materials. posted by
MegoSteve
at 9:51 AM PST
- 	 11 comments
Vaccination-autism debate turns nasty
Seth Mnookin courageously fought heroin addiction and re-launched himself as a well-regarded writer. His new book
The Panic Virus
raised several questions about the science behind claims that vaccinations contribute to autism, and that the consequences of doing so resulted in the reemergence of formerly eradicated diseases such as measles and whooping cough. In that light, he recently criticized a new
PBS Series
which, despite strong scientific evidence to the contrary, again suggests the vaccination-autism connection. This led to a
classless attack
on Mnookin's former struggles with addiction. His pained
response . posted by
littlemanclan
at 9:49 AM PST
- 	 80 comments
From the beginning to the end
Novel First Sentences ,
Novel Last Sentences posted by
fearfulsymmetry
at 9:28 AM PST
- 	 54 comments
Symmetry.
Symmetry.
[ more inside ] posted by
pwally
at 8:45 AM PST
- 	 18 comments
fight for your right Beastie Boys 25 years later are still fighting for their right.
Starring: Jack Black, Will Ferrell, John C. Reilly, Seth Rogen, Elijah Wood, Danny McBride, Orlando Bloom, Kirsten Dunst, David Cross, Will Arnett, Amy Poehler, Jason Schwartzman, Adam Scott, Rainn Wilson, Steve Buscemi, Chloë Sevigny, Alicia Silverstone, Martin Starr, Ted Danson and Rashida Jones.
Here's a link to the original . This may be NSFW. posted by
TheBones
at 7:20 AM PST
- 	 64 comments
I recommend the miniphants.
Flash Fun Friday!
Elephant Quest : the best elephants-with-lasers Castlevaniaesque RPG you will play all day.
[ more inside ] posted by
keeo
at 7:11 AM PST
- 	 21 comments
Iraq Vet Who Advocated For Others Kills Himself Iraq Vet Who Advocated For Others Kills Himself
"Handsome and friendly, Clay Hunt so epitomized a vibrant Iraq veteran that he was chosen for a public service announcement reminding veterans that they aren't alone." - Clay Hunt died March 31 of a self-inflicted gunshot wound. The article states he had been dealing with "survivors guilt" and frustrated by a difficult disability claim process from wounds received in Iraq. posted by
randomkeystrike
at 6:36 AM PST
- 	 70 comments
Coverhithe Coverhithe
: While you wait for his
next book , the Guardian has a new short story from China Mieville. posted by
biffa
at 6:08 AM PST
- 	 4 comments
Yale's 2010 Environmental Performance Index (EPI) Yale's 2010 Environmental Performance Index (EPI)
ranks 163 countries on 25 performance indicators tracked across ten policy categories covering both environmental public health and ecosystem vitality. These indicators provide a gauge at a national government scale of how close countries are to established environmental policy goals. posted by
wilful
at 5:48 AM PST
- 	 8 comments
Have you ever printed a boarding pass?
Alaska man prints poster-sized boarding pass.
No extra TSA pat downs, no enraged passengers. posted by
kuujjuarapik
at 5:21 AM PST
- 	 56 comments
The battle of Stokes Croft
"By this point there was devastation everywhere. All junctions were blocked by overturned glass bottle dumpsters and makeshift neighbourhood roadblocks blocks."
Last night, a
huge
clash
between protestors and the police kicked off in the colourful Stokes Croft area of Bristol. The cause? A recently-opened
Tesco Express supermarket . posted by
hnnrs
at 5:00 AM PST
- 	 56 comments
April 21 She Comes In Colors
(Good) Friday Flash Fun:
Stalwart
is a tricky little avoidance platformer with charming low-fi graphics and great music. posted by
Lovecraft In Brooklyn
at 11:05 PM PST
- 	 12 comments
Epic Meal Time tries to explain itself. In English. On a French TV show
Bacon-wrapped cupcakes: What could possibly go wrong? Well, try explaining your Internet-famous project ( Epic Meal Time ) in English on Quebec’s most popular French-language talk show. Bonus difficulty points: You already
are
from Quebec, but you don’t speak French well enough to swagger through an interview. Anglo journo Fagstein
analyzes
the “controversy.” (The interview in question, from
Tout le monde en parle ,
on YouTube ;
alternate .) posted by
joeclark
at 7:43 PM PST
- 	 97 comments
Laptopistan
Working best at
coffee shops . Destination:
Laptopistan . Why work
doesn't happen
at work. posted by
AceRock
at 7:04 PM PST
- 	 73 comments
The woman behind the Vitameatavegamin Girl
Madelyn Pugh Davis, one of the three masterminds behind
I Love Lucy
and a pioneer for women writers in radio and television, has gone on to the great
Vitameatavegamin
commercial in the sky.
She was 90.
[ more inside ] posted by
scody
at 5:53 PM PST
- 	 20 comments
Beware the creeper!
Meatcraft
- Real World Minecraft posted by
Artw
at 4:43 PM PST
- 	 13 comments
I offer you the task. You do the task. You get what you want.
The Booth At The End
is a drama about a man who makes deals. 62 parts, each lasting just two pretty fantastic minutes.
[ more inside ] posted by
sleepcrime
at 3:22 PM PST
- 	 25 comments
Cadbury Creme Eggs, Liquid Nitrogen, MRI Scans, and Extra Dimensions
The science education video series
Sixty Symbols
( previously ) explores the
Cadbury Creme Egg.
[ more inside ] posted by
KirkJobSluder
at 3:05 PM PST
- 	 26 comments
The following thread is in *massive* spoiler quotes
Portal 2
has finally hit the streets, and despite a somewhat
rocky start
with their controversial promotional ARG ( previously ), it looks to be a huge success. Interestingly for such a critically-acclaimed blockbuster, the title's core ideas steam from a pair of concept projects from student design school
DigiPen : the original portal system from
Narbacular Drop
( video
-
download
-
previously ) and the sequel's physics-altering gels from
Tag: The Power of Paint
( video
-
download
-
previously
-
previouslier ). Combine these innovative ideas with some
Lost -meets- Life After People
level design, excellent
voice acting , and top-notch writing, and it's easy to see why so many people
called in sick
this past week. But playing the game is just the beginning -- look inside for a collection of easter eggs, story theories, videos, and other goodies from the post-mortem.
[ more inside ] posted by
Rhaomi
at 2:31 PM PST
- 	 425 comments
Captured: Captured:
A Look Back at the Vietnam War on the 35th Anniversary of the Fall of Saigon. (The following photo collection contains some graphic violence and depictions of dead bodies.) posted by
docgonzo
at 2:13 PM PST
- 	 18 comments
"The truth is, I see myself as a girl that types instead of talking out of my mouth. I don't really see anything so special about that."
From an early age, it was clear that Carly Fleishmann had autism. Furthermore, she couldn't speak, and professionals who had diagnosed her considered her moderately to severely cognitively impaired. Therapy helped, but she still wasn't able to speak. Then at age ten, working with a computer equipped with pictures and symbols, she started typing and spelling words. She started with single words, then wrote sentences,
describing how she felt, and how she wanted people to treat her .
Her story has been presented on a variety of shows , often with insight provided by Carly that
she typed with one finger . As her writing ability has improved over the years,
she has shared her thoughts through her blog
(and
as a guest on Larry King's blog ), on her own
Twitter feed , and
Facebook page . Now 16, she recently
appeared again on TV, talking through her writing
( transcript ).
[ more inside ] posted by
filthy light thief
at 1:09 PM PST
- 	 46 comments
The solution to quantum gravity is ready. ... and there is no dark matter/energy!
Dr. Philip
Mannheim
has succeeded in developing a cosmological and quantum field theoretic consistent PT symmetric theory that contains no kind of dark matter and dark energy.
Space is flat in the absence of matter, and even the largest galactic rotation curves are predicted. Perhaps most interestingly, it also handles the cosmological constant and zero-point energy 'problems' simultaneously! (This is the final paper in a
long list of publications , but it makes the case such that it's importance is immediately recognized. I leave it to the experts to recognize it's true beauty.) All hail the internets! posted by
quanta and qualia
at 11:41 AM PST
- 	 210 comments
Shawarma Law Shawarma Law.
The Ed and Moe Show
is a web comedy series from
Dearborn , MI - birthplace of Henry Ford, home to the highest concentration of Muslim Arabs in North America (about 1/3 the population), and a target of
ignorant crankery
( previously ). Well Ed and Moe have seen
this kind of thing
before. Co-creator Mike Eshaq doesn't want you to counter-protest, he's asking people to come to the Dearborn Civic Center Friday April 22 at 4pm to celebrate
Shawarma Law . It's not
Ramadan
right now and there's
nothing to be afraid of.
If you can make it, come on up and share the love.
Detroit Free Press coverage . Previous episodes of The Ed and Moe Show:
1
2
3
4 . posted by
McLir
at 11:32 AM PST
- 	 17 comments
Kiki Kannibal The Girl Who Played With Fire:
Rolling Stone profiles the "rise, fall and stubborn survival" of
Kiki Kannibal , ‘The
Most Hated Girl on the Internet ’ posted by
zarq
at 11:30 AM PST
- 	 203 comments
Want to 'nod out'? Ride the 'H' train
Selling heroin on Craigslist .
[ more inside ] posted by
sveskemus
at 11:04 AM PST
- 	 36 comments
HAL Sings Daisy One Last Time
Max Mathews , died today, here in San Francisco. One of the fathers of electronic music, whose early voice synthesis project became a centerpiece in 2001: A Space Odyssey - HAL singing that old tune "Daisy Bell." posted by
njohnson23
at 11:01 AM PST
- 	 28 comments
83% male with an average net worth of $5 million What Congress Would Look Like If It [Demographically] Represented America
(full size infographic) .
Net worth of lawmakers
(related, previously) . posted by
OverlappingElvis
at 10:39 AM PST
- 	 72 comments
Roger Ebert: Remaking My Voice
When film critic Roger Ebert lost his lower jaw to cancer, he lost the ability to eat and speak. But he did not lose his voice.
In a moving talk from TED2011 , Ebert and his wife, Chaz, with friends Dean Ornish and John Hunter, come together to tell his remarkable story.
[Ted Talk video - 20minutes] posted by
hippybear
at 10:11 AM PST
- 	 10 comments
Ann Steel
Ann
Steel
--
My
Time posted by
puny human
at 9:54 AM PST
- 	 13 comments
Unfit counsel "This conflict of interest hits at the heart of the attorney-client relationship."
Robert Caulley
has served 14 years of a life sentence for the murder of his parents , a crime he says he didn't commit.
Some hope that
unknown DNA found on a gun at the crime scene will prove his innocence , citing
similar exonerations in other high-profile Ohio cases , but so far Caulley's attempts to revisit his case with further DNA testing
have failed .
But look, Caulley already had his day in court with his lawyer by his side, doing everything possible to clear him, right?
So he thought -- until he learned that
his defense attorney was sleeping with his wife during his trial . posted by
escabeche
at 9:33 AM PST
- 	 20 comments
Diamonds and Rust
' Herman Wouk Is Still Alive ' a new short story by Stephen King.
Interview
where, among other things, King discusses the origins of the story, his creative process in general, the status of the short story today, and his liking for
Judas
Priest .
[ more inside ] posted by
fearfulsymmetry
at 9:07 AM PST
- 	 59 comments
Welcome to the Traditional Family Values Center at Texas A&M!
The Texas A&M Student Senate has voted to support and advocate for student-funded traditional family values education on Texas public school campuses.
[ more inside ] posted by
fugitivefromchaingang
at 8:51 AM PST
- 	 98 comments
Gauss can prove two theorems with one proof. Gauss Facts
posted by
jjray
at 7:35 AM PST
- 	 29 comments
Eight Minutes of Nothing But Balls
Lego Great Ball Contraption . (YouTube). Not enough balls?
Try this one.
(YouTube) More about Great Ball Contraptions:
one
two posted by
Legomancer
at 6:54 AM PST
- 	 31 comments
Honest Logos
Logos +
Truth Sunglasses :
Honest Logos posted by
Memo
at 6:37 AM PST
- 	 44 comments
Iowa loophole voids mortgage
Matt and Jamie Danielson, with the aid of their bankruptcy attorney, were able to use a little known loophole in the Iowa law to
void their mortgage and own their house outright after making just one payment .
However, further investigation has uncovered some
unsavory events in the couple's past . posted by
reenum
at 6:36 AM PST
- 	 60 comments
The Management Myth "Management theory came to life in 1899 with a simple question: “How many tons of pig iron bars can a worker load onto a rail car in the course of a working day?”
... At the end of the day his “method” amounted to a set of exhortations: Think harder! Work smarter! Buy a stopwatch!" Matthew Stewart on the fruitlessness of management science. "According to my scientific sampling, you can save yourself from reading about 99 percent of all the management literature once you master this dialectic between rationalists and humanists. The Taylorite rationalist says: Be efficient! The Mayo-ist humanist replies: Hey, these are people we’re talking about! And the debate goes on. Ultimately, it’s just another installment in the ongoing saga of reason and passion, of the individual and the group." posted by
geoff.
at 6:35 AM PST
- 	 54 comments
We all live in Lester's basement now
Lester Bangs, the late, great early-rock critic, once said he dreamed of having a basement with every album ever released in it. That's a fantasy shared by many music fans—and, mutatis mutandis, film buffs as well. We all know the Internet has made available a lot of things that were previously hard to get. Recently, though, there are indications of something even more enticing, almost paradisiacal, something that might have made Bangs put down the cough syrup and sit up straight:
that almost everything is available. posted by
octothorpe
at 5:12 AM PST
- 	 137 comments
April 20 "As knowledge policy, for the creators of this knowledge, this is crazy" "The Architecture of Access to Scientific Information: Just How Badly We Have Messed This Up"
Lawrence Lessig speaking at CERN on April 18, 2011. Long (~50 min), but wonderful and totally worth it (and the second half is about Youtube and remix culture). posted by
unknowncommand
at 10:54 PM PST
- 	 53 comments
Ahoy, eh!
The
Canadian Pirate Party
is official, registered, and running 10-12 candidates in the current federal election. The recent debate over usage-based billing convinced at least
one of its candidates
of its potential appeal to voters. They are unabashedly an
issue-based party , whose platform deals with intellectual property, privacy, net neutrality, and government access/openness.
[ more inside ] posted by
kevinsp8
at 9:50 PM PST
- 	 13 comments
Everything Sucks Today
Nerds Ruin Everything.
XKCD Sucks.
Gamers Are Embarrassing.
Defunct:
Game Journalists Are Incompetent Fuckwits
Stuff Geeks Love.
Classic:
Five Geek Social Fallacies posted by
Lovecraft In Brooklyn
at 7:51 PM PST
- 	 210 comments
R.I.P. Gerard Smith
TV On The Radio's Gerard Smith Dead At 34.
Smith was
TV On the Radio's
bassist.
[ more inside ] posted by
codacorolla
at 7:10 PM PST
- 	 89 comments
Another April 20th, another accident while gathering hydrocarbons
One year after
BP's Deepwater Horizon disaster
in the Gulf of Mexico, a hydraulic fracturing operation in
northern Pennsylvania
experiences a blowout
resulting in the release of fracking liquids. The use and chemical
content of fracking liquids is a point of contention
when debating what role natural gas will play in the future of energy. posted by
nowoutside
at 6:58 PM PST
- 	 84 comments
Puzzle Hunters Puzzle Hunters - a high-quality, original animation by Matt Wilson (formerly of Bonus Stage)
posted by
LSK
at 6:12 PM PST
- 	 4 comments
Avoid the News
Avoid the News:
Towards A Healthy News Diet.
(large-ish PDF)
Go without news. Cut it out completely. Go cold turkey.
Make news as inaccessible as possible .
.
.
.
After a while, you will realize that despite your personal news blackout, you have not missed – and you’re not going to miss – any important facts. If some bit of information is truly important to your profession, your company, your family or your community, you will hear it in time – from your friends, your mother-in-law or whomever you talk to or see. When you are with your friends, ask them if anything important is happening in the world. The question is a great conversation starter. Most of the time, the answer will be: “not really.” posted by
jason's_planet
at 4:58 PM PST
- 	 113 comments
My Mets Journal
" My NY Mets sketchbook . I create an entry after each Mets game or commentary on the crazy stuff going on around the team." posted by
clorox
at 4:17 PM PST
- 	 9 comments
Tim Hetherington Killed in Libya
British photojournalist and filmmaker
Tim Hetherington
was
killed
by artillery fire in Libya today. He was 41 years old.
[ more inside ] posted by
Rangeboy
at 3:22 PM PST
- 	 72 comments
THIS POST DESIGNED TO CREATE A MEFI CIVIL WAR
"Weird" Al Yankovic
wanted to do a parody
of Lady Gaga's "Born This Way," so he did what he usually does: he contacted the artist and asked permission. Lady Gaga said she'd have to hear the lyrics, so Weird Al wrote the lyrics and sent them to her. Gaga then said she's have to actually hear the song, so Weird Al went into the studio and recorded it - at which point Gaga refused to give her permission. Weird Al responded by doing something he's never done in his entire career: he's asserted his fair use rights and
made an unapproved parody available to the public . posted by
mightygodking
at 11:04 AM PST
- 	 538 comments
The Thinking Atheist: 'Nothing More To Talk About'
The Thinking Atheist: 'Nothing More To Talk About'
(SLYT) - Many religious family members pray for their atheist and agnostic loved ones graciously, honoring personal boundaries and showing respect for the skeptic's right to form his/her own worldview... This video is not about them... posted by
MrBCID
at 10:37 AM PST
- 	 381 comments
Happy Swamp Rabbit Day!
On April 20th, 1979,
President Jimmy Carter was attacked by a giant swimming swamp rabbit . With pics, 'cause it happened.
[ more inside ] posted by
davidjmcgee
at 10:27 AM PST
- 	 75 comments
Atomic gardens
Paige Johnson works as a nanotechnology researcher at the University of Tulsa, Oklahoma. [...] Her current landscape research is focused on the strange and fascinating story of atomic gardening, a post-war phenomenon in which plants were irradiated in the hopes of producing beneficial mutations.
Pruned talks to Paige Johnson about atomic gardens. posted by
shakespeherian
at 10:00 AM PST
- 	 22 comments
Like a drag queen's acid nightmare
Yvonne Strahovski, of
Chuck
fame, lampoons Katy Perry, Ke$ha, and Gaga in
Three Pop Stars, One Song . Somewhat NSFW-ish, but the lyrics are quite witty and the tune is ear-worm-y. [SLCH] posted by
shiu mai baby
at 9:59 AM PST
- 	 32 comments
The internet is too big to take on
Writer
Cath Elliot , recently nominated for
the Orwell Prize
for political writing,
posts about what are, sadly, often
the occupational hazards
of being a political woman online. (NSFW language; author has tagged post with a trigger warning fwiw) posted by
mippy
at 9:45 AM PST
- 	 50 comments
It's your Friendly Neighborhood Unemployed-Man!
Conceptual art collective, and part-time unemployment agency,
Workforce Central Florida
recently began the " Cape-a-bility Challenge " that has
been
taking
some
flack
for spending $73,000 giving 6000 red capes (costing $14,000 for the capes alone) to the unemployed in their battle against the verbosely named existential super-villian
Dr. Evil Unemployment .
[ more inside ] posted by
wcfields
at 9:45 AM PST
- 	 34 comments
Cumbia Cumbia
"Cumbia is one of the world's great dance grooves. It is made up of merry guitars and accordions, torrid brass, and insistent, deep-toned drums and percussion, pounding out a lopsided, strutting 4/4 rhythm with a kick like nitroglycerine. Cumbia is the result of three colliding cultures that settled in Colombia at different times. Indigenous peoples were followed by the Spanish conquistadors, who added on Moorish influences from the sack of Granada. Finally, African slaves were brought in, and they supplied both the rhythm and the means to bring it forth. From its beginnings as a courtship dance among the slave population, cumbia gradually became the soul of the entire nation."
PRI's The World asks , which do you prefer,
Cumbia old
or Cumbia new? For Cumbia old the list is long:
Amaneciendo!
::
Cumbias En Moog "Cumbia De Sal"
::
Cumbia Sampuesana
::
Pedro Laza
- Cumbia del Monte
::
Gabriel Romero - La Subienda
::
Cumbia plegaria
::
Soledad - Lucy Gonzalez
::
La Zenaida
:: For Cumbia new start here:
Chancha via
Circuito
and then check out the ZZK Mix Tapes:
Fauna Megamix
::
Tremor
::
King Koya posted by
puny human
at 9:44 AM PST
- 	 24 comments
"For the majority of Pentagram's career, if you wanted to hear them, you had to know someone who had a bootleg." Meet Doctor Doom
"Forty years ago, with his band Pentagram, Bobby Liebling invented a style of fiendishly heavy metal that hardly anyone heard. He spent the ensuing decades in a haze of hard drugs and big trouble. (5 arrests, 35 detoxes, more than 200 hospital visits.) Now, with the genre he spawned on the rise and a young wife and baby boy in tow, Liebling is feeling the first rumblings of success. Here's where things start to get weird."
[ more inside ] posted by
zarq
at 8:03 AM PST
- 	 26 comments
Big Steve is Watching You? iPhones Found to Track Your Movements, Keep Record
Security researchers have discovered that without any input from the user, iPhones permanently record the movements of their owners.
Download an open-source app (Mac)
here
to reveal your own geo history. posted by
modernnomad
at 7:22 AM PST
- 	 380 comments
Bad Politics, Worse Prose
Famous dictators and the books/poetry they write .
[ more inside ] posted by
gman
at 7:09 AM PST
- 	 21 comments
Kindle Library Lending
Amazon
has
announced
that
library lending will be available on the Kindle later this year .
Teaming with
Overdrive , the program will start with
11,000 libraries
in the United States.
One of the key features touted by the company will be that users
"can highlight and add margin notes to Kindle books you check out from your local library. Your notes will not show up when the next patron checks out the book. But if you check out the book again, or subsequently buy it, your notes will be there just as you left them."
Could this be a possible death blow to the Nook? posted by
NotMyselfRightNow
at 6:50 AM PST
- 	 94 comments
Renting a read from 'newspaper landlords'
The poor in Ethiopia are often unable to buy newspapers, so they
'rent' papers for 20-30 minutes at a time
from local entrepreneurs. posted by
reenum
at 6:29 AM PST
- 	 26 comments
A home is where you make it
Could you live in
repurposed freight containers ? How about a
pig sty or a water tower ? You can really
fix a water tower up nicely .
Folks can live in
all kinds of things , including
an old cement factory .
[ more inside ] posted by
kinnakeet
at 6:16 AM PST
- 	 38 comments
Wrecked...
Lovely and haunting photographs of
25 Shipwrecks
from around the world.
[ more inside ] posted by
benzo8
at 1:27 AM PST
- 	 25 comments
Hardly Ever--Okay, Always
Riki Lindhome and Kate Micucci
take a
closer look
at issues regarding the availability of medical marijuana.
[ more inside ] posted by
KChasm
at 12:51 AM PST
- 	 41 comments
April 19 "I've always loved this photograph, but I can't figure out why."
Four Photographers on Three Wheels: William Eggleston's Tricycle and Before .
Mark Feeney 's lecture examines the humble
tricycle
in twentieth century photography. He compares photos by
Helen Levitt ,
Garry Winogrand ,
Bill Owens
and, of course,
William Eggleston . posted by
bstreep
at 10:07 PM PST
- 	 2 comments
'Cause you know I'm coming home soon.
Nantucket Sleighride
takes its title from 19th century whaling
slang .
The song is dedicated to the memory of
Owen Coffin , ship's mate aboard the
Whaleship Essex .
[ more inside ] posted by
Devils Rancher
at 10:00 PM PST
- 	 14 comments
2011 Pulitzer prize winners in easy-to-read format Longform.org has the 2011 Pulitzer prize winners
in unadorned plain text.
Instructions below for using Longform with Instapaper.
[ more inside ] posted by
mecran01
at 8:37 PM PST
- 	 15 comments
Please step away from the cell phone, Sir. Should Cops Be Allowed to Scan Your Phone During a Traffic Stop?
In Michigan, the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) has
filed a complaint
[PDF letter
here ]
alleging that Michigan State Police officers used
forensic cellphone analyzers
to snoop in drivers' cellphones during routine traffic stops . [Before they fulfill an ACLU FOIA request, the MSP wants a $272,340 deposit up front to cover their costs of retrieving analyzer data, which is obtained without the cellphone owner's knowledge.] posted by
cenoxo
at 8:36 PM PST
- 	 97 comments
I am vengeance. I am the night. I am Batman. The AV Club has been writing in-depth recaps of Batman: The Animated Series.
They were originally written by Leonard Pierce but after a
small scandal
Oliver Sava has taken over the write-ups. They've already covered some of the series best-loved episodes, including
Feat of Clay ,
Heart of Ice , and the
Mask of the Phantasm
film.
[ more inside ] posted by
Lovecraft In Brooklyn
at 7:37 PM PST
- 	 54 comments
"These records of what men and women absorb with diligent neglect of health and spiritual welfare."
"What's on the menu?" , the New York Public Library asks.
Cincinnati Ham, Champagne Sauce .
Baked Weakfish .
Republican Punch .
Cup of Beef Tea .
[ more inside ] posted by
nev
at 5:38 PM PST
- 	 47 comments
Where Do Babies Come From, and Where Do They Go?
Interactive map
of international adoptions, from the superlative Schuster Institute
for Investigative Journalism. The site contains an amazing amount of information about corruption in international adoption in countries like
Nepal
and
Vietnam . posted by
the young rope-rider
at 5:09 PM PST
- 	 18 comments
The Master of the Capsule Review
Long before he wrote
DVD reviews for
The New York Time s ,
Dave Kehr
spent 11 years at the
Chicago Reader
perfecting
the 100-word capsule review
into
a vehicle
for his
succinct ,
astute
writing
on a
wide
variety
of
films .
All of them can be read for free at the
Chicago Reader 's website.
Additionally, his
long-overlooked long reviews
have just been
collected and published.
[ more inside ] posted by
alexoscar
at 4:52 PM PST
- 	 26 comments
post-apocalyptic dravidian baroque
Kris Kuksi
makes
sculptures, paintings, and drawings . A
time-lapse
of his sculpting process and a
walkthrough
with details. He has
a book
and
sells his sculptures . His most famous work is perhaps
Church Tank .
[Previously] posted by
lemuring
at 4:44 PM PST
- 	 7 comments
Monarchy, you see, is a hereditary disease that can only be cured by fresh outbreaks of itself
Christopher Hitchens rails against monarchy and the Royal wedding. posted by
beisny
at 3:34 PM PST
- 	 283 comments
Just A Smack On The Ass Just A Smack On The Ass: A Tale of Sexual Assault, Vengeance and Nervous Swearing.
Stop Street Harassment
offers further ideas for
targets
and
bystanders
to think about.
[ more inside ] posted by
cybercoitus interruptus
at 3:29 PM PST
- 	 70 comments
A Fatwa Against Pets The Latest Enemies of Iran: Dogs and Their Owners
[ more inside ] posted by
PepperMax
at 3:00 PM PST
- 	 34 comments
we're gonna need more speaker cones
He is from Miami .
They are from Orlando .
[ more inside ] posted by
anigbrowl
at 2:40 PM PST
- 	 9 comments
The Ballad of Halo Jones
Alan Moore and
Ian Gibson's
epic story
The Ballad of Halo Jones
concluded 25 years ago today (bar the odd strange
one page appearance
hinting at why it did not return). Despite being unpopular with readers at first due to it's female protagonist and relative lack of action it is now rightly regarded as one of 2000ads classic stories. However despite Quality Comics reprinting a color monthly version (which was anything but quality) it has remained a rarity in the US,
until now .
But how would the other 6 chapters of the planned 9 part chapter have gone? Moore
revealed how it would have ended
in a
recent interview . posted by
Artw
at 2:33 PM PST
- 	 20 comments
28 Pin-up Girls
28 Classic pin-ups and their photo references.
[NSFW] posted by
stoneweaver
at 2:20 PM PST
- 	 60 comments
The Mystery of the Hipster Cops
Comics writer
Scott Synder
has noticed that the same two background characters appear in a number of different Marvel and DC comics. Who are these ' Hipster Cops '? posted by
fearfulsymmetry
at 2:00 PM PST
- 	 48 comments
Elisabeth Sladen Has Died
She was
Sarah Jane Smith : intrepid reporter, beloved companion, and stalwart defender. She was in
two
different spin-offs . The BBC is
confirming
that
Elisabeth Sladen
of Doctor Who and environs, is dead at 63. posted by
Legomancer
at 1:26 PM PST
- 	 225 comments
Making trails through the Mail Rail
Urban explorers surreptitiously gain access
to the
Post Office Railway
underneath London, take lots of photos. posted by
grouse
at 1:06 PM PST
- 	 37 comments
Hamsters are serious business.
There are many ways to be immortal. Israel Aharoni, a Jewish biologist working in Turkish-controlled Jerusalem, imagined that his enduring legacy would come from giving Hebrew names to the animals of the Holy Land.... In the spring of 1930, Aharoni staged an expedition to the hills of Syria, near Aleppo, one of the oldest cities in the world. His quest was simple: he wanted to catch the rare golden mammal whose Arabic name translates roughly as ' mister saddlebags .'
[ more inside ] posted by
mudpuppie
at 1:01 PM PST
- 	 10 comments
It happens The Tao of Poo
We can exhaustively ­explore every aspect of athletic life -- victory, defeat, violence, racism, drugs, brain damage, paralysis, death -- but nothing reveals as much about the physiology, psychology and sociology of sport as the excretory experience of athletes. posted by
ThePinkSuperhero
at 12:48 PM PST
- 	 48 comments
Oh, doctor!
Baseball fans: Curious how far that home run went? Try
HitTracker .
[ more inside ] posted by
starman
at 12:32 PM PST
- 	 6 comments
This book goes there, that book goes there ShelvAr:
an augmented reality app for shelf-reading library stacks, from Miami University Augmented Reality Research Group ( MU ARRG! ). posted by
steef
at 12:09 PM PST
- 	 25 comments
Before sharks swam in formaldehyde, there was Piss Christ
Andres Serrano
(some NSWF images) has made controversial art for decades, with his piece
Piss Christ
causing controversy shortly after it was created in 1987. In 1989, the photograph initiated
outrage against the National Endowment for the Arts because of "anti-Christian bigotry" . Then the piece was physically attacked
two times in one weekend , when it was first shown in the
National Gallery of Victoria
in 1997. In December 2010, the
Collection Lambert museum of contemporary art
in Avignon, France opened
a show called "I Believe in Miracles"
that includes pieces of minimal art, conceptual art and land art, and includes
Piss Christ . The photograph had been shown in France before without disturbance, and had been shown without incident in Collection Lambert for four months, but
around 1,000 protesters marched to the museum on Saturday, and on Sunday vandals succeeded in attacking the picture , breaking the plexiglass shield and slashing the photograph.
The museum is open again, and the damaged work is still on display .
[ more inside ] posted by
filthy light thief
at 10:55 AM PST
- 	 143 comments
Kittens in Bowls! Here's a bunch of kittens in bowls.
Love, Japan posted by
XQUZYPHYR
at 10:54 AM PST
- 	 63 comments
Fantastic Version of the Cups and Balls Tommy Wonder Performs the Cups and Balls
I ran across this performance of one of magic's oldest tricks. It's probably the best version I've seen so far. In my opinion it's even better than Dai Vernon's. posted by
wackyvorlon
at 10:41 AM PST
- 	 35 comments
cheeseburger cheeseburger do it again What we do is what we do.
The brand new DEVO video takes the crowd-sourcing/focus-grouping element of their album
Something For Everybody
to the music video world.
It's a 360-degree video where the user can control the camera.
(For the lazy among us, there's also a "random" button that moves from shot to shot.)
The link also includes a brief interview with DEVO co-founder/video co-director Gerald V. Casale. posted by
Rev. Syung Myung Me
at 10:09 AM PST
- 	 15 comments
You Love Purple!
What happens when you
let your boyfriend do your makeup . (via
The Hairpin ) posted by
hermitosis
at 9:27 AM PST
- 	 76 comments
Too crazy for Jan? Impressive.
Jan Brewer, the Governor of Arizona, has
vetoed the controversial 'birther bill'
that would require presidential candidates to provide AZ's secretary of state with proof of citizenship before they could appear on the ballot, up to and including a ' circumcision certificate ' posted by
FatherDagon
at 8:59 AM PST
- 	 115 comments
Bruno Munari
" Bruno Munari
was an Italian artist and designer, who contributed fundamentals to many fields of visual arts (painting, sculpture, film, industrial design, graphics) and non visual arts (literature, poetry) with his research on games, infancy and creativity." Here are a collection of
Bruno
Munari's
Faces . You can see more of the maestro's work in this short documentary:
1 ,
2 ,
3 , and on this Italian
children's show
from the 1970s. And here are scans from some of Munari's famous
illustrations
for children's books. posted by
puny human
at 8:36 AM PST
- 	 5 comments
War is Boring
David Axe
is on his way back from reporting for
6 weeks in Afghanistan .
[ more inside ] posted by
garlic
at 8:35 AM PST
- 	 7 comments
'Star Wars' Producer Gary Kurtz Reflects 'Star Wars' Producer Gary Kurtz Reflects
When George Lucas and I began planning the first film, we had no idea what it would become; the kind of devotion it would attract... So what was it that made Star Wars so different, so special? I can give you one small example of the kind of care we took when putting the film together... posted by
modernnomad
at 7:12 AM PST
- 	 132 comments
Philosophical Referee Symbols Philosophical Referee Symbols.
posted by
escabeche
at 7:12 AM PST
- 	 23 comments
"Thou wilt fall backward when thou hast more wit." egapbew a fo kcab
[TUMBLR]
posted by
Fizz
at 5:28 AM PST
- 	 44 comments
Tron without the headache 2D glasses for 3D movies!
Hank Green, one half of the
VlogBrothers , comes up with a
solution
for people who'd like to watch 3D movies without the headache. posted by
litnerd
at 5:02 AM PST
- 	 39 comments
Grete Waitz 1953-2011
Norwegian
marathon runner
Grete Waitz
dies at 57 .
[ more inside ] posted by
iviken
at 4:03 AM PST
- 	 17 comments
Some holoalphabetisms - in Japanese
Inspired by a recent
AskMe , a search for videos featuring the 'Iroha Uta' turned up a number of interesting versions. The
iroha
is a pangram based on the Japanese syllabary, and thus uses each of the 48 characters once and only once ( Wikipedia explanation ). Let's start with the 'lovely' Hatsune Miku
singing it . (Bonus: she includes hand symbols for each character - used by
this young lady for her version .)
[ more inside ] posted by
woodblock100
at 3:27 AM PST
- 	 8 comments
Habit Judo
Having trouble forming (and then keeping) good habits?
Habit Judo
may be the answer. [via
mefi projects ]
[ more inside ] posted by
maxwelton
at 2:55 AM PST
- 	 84 comments
April 18 The Story of the First Tornado Forecast "Are you going to issue a tornado forecast?" [asked the general].
We both made abortive efforts at crawling out of such a horrendous decision. We pointed out the infinitesimal possibility of a second tornado striking the same area within twenty years or more, let alone in five days. "Besides," we said, "no one has ever issued an operational tornado forecast."
[ more inside ] posted by
LobsterMitten
at 11:44 PM PST
- 	 9 comments
MONKEYS! RIDING DOGS! HERDING SHEEP!
Team
Ghost
Riders
[ more inside ] posted by
Minus215Cee
at 11:38 PM PST
- 	 12 comments
Memoirs of the Great Patriotic War
A
collection
of first-person accounts of the
men
and
women
who defended the Soviet Union against the Fascist invasion, and eventually participated in the
race to Berlin .
via
the War Nerd
posted by
pompomtom
at 9:56 PM PST
- 	 22 comments
Write Your Name In Japanese
ヘヤ メタフィテレ! ヰテ ヨウ ナメ イン ジャパネセ!
[ more inside ] posted by
Effigy2000
at 9:50 PM PST
- 	 50 comments
They're making up their own shows, that might be better than TV Waffle shop
is a place to eat waffles, and also a live streaming talk show.
[ more inside ] posted by
idiopath
at 9:49 PM PST
- 	 14 comments
Holy Rollers! Holy Rollers (the documentary)
Card-Counting Christians. posted by
klausman
at 7:14 PM PST
- 	 24 comments
You're no rock and roll fun
"From then on, the difference became clear. It’s the male band members who don’t take you seriously, and when you get upset with how you’re treated, ask you if you’re menstruating. It’s the promoters and planners who screw you, then call you a diva when you assert yourself.
It’s the kids who don’t talk to you after your set, but talk to your male bandmates because they assume you’re only there for show.
It’s the people who think you’re sleeping with the guitarist, the people who assume you’re queer,
or the journalists who mention your weight in reviews.
It’s every single time a producer has told me I can’t play guitar on my own record because “sweetie, you’re not a studio musician” or “sing it again, but naked.”
Mariel Loveland
from
Candy Hearts
and
Lauren Denitzio
from
The Measure [SA]
discuss sexism in modern punk rock. For further reading there's Jessica Hopper's classic essay
Emo: Where the Girls Aren’t .
Previously. posted by
Lovecraft In Brooklyn
at 6:56 PM PST
- 	 39 comments
I am the coin
IAMTHECOINIAMTELLINGTHISSTORYIAMINAGRIDCONSISTINGO FTWENTYTHOUSANDCOINSAGRIDTWOHUNDREDROWSLONGBYONEHU NDREDROWSHIGHEACHCOINISALETTERTHEREARENOSPACESANDN OPUNCTUATIONMARKSTHEREISAHIDDENCLUETOHELPYOUFINDME
[ more inside ] posted by
Horace Rumpole
at 6:43 PM PST
- 	 45 comments
Join a research expedition to Antarctica Join a research expedition to Antarctica's Mertz Glacier.
Stunning photos, videos, interactives.
[ more inside ] posted by
puffl
at 5:33 PM PST
- 	 7 comments
CLOP CLOP CLOP CLOP Pony Polka!
posted by
furiousxgeorge
at 5:31 PM PST
- 	 24 comments
Furniture that really is da bomb. "Estonian sculptor Mati Karmin creates mind-blowing furniture made out [sic] from sea mines."
That is all.
[ more inside ] posted by
kinnakeet
at 4:22 PM PST
- 	 23 comments
Sharing the road
The economic case for on-street bike parking
( they
are
not
just
for
the
folks
in
Por tla nd ). posted by
aniola
at 4:01 PM PST
- 	 40 comments
Friends, Romans, countrymen, lend me your ears.... The Science of Why We Don't Believe In Science.
Or How To Win An Argument: Try Not To Rely on Facts. MotherJones investigates what recent research can tell us about how we reason (or don't). posted by
Diablevert
at 3:50 PM PST
- 	 45 comments
The KO Hip Hop Cello-Beatbox Experience
Cellist
Kevin Olusola
incorporated
beatboxing into a piece
called Julie-O.
[ more inside ] posted by
gman
at 3:14 PM PST
- 	 16 comments
Culling and surrender The Sad, Beautiful Fact That We're All Going To Miss Almost Everything.
The vast majority of the world's books, music, films, television and art, you will never see. It's just numbers. posted by
crossoverman
at 2:44 PM PST
- 	 89 comments
Austin Breed's art games
Austin Breed
is a 19-year-old
game designer . His works are typically said to fall under the
"art game"
genre but are in fact better understood as interactive experiences that deal with everything from the idea of faith to the emotional turmoil of long distance relationships. Here are my favorites:
Distance ,
A Mother in Festerwood ,
Sweatshop Boy ,
Good Fortune .
[ more inside ] posted by
PostIronyIsNotaMyth
at 2:43 PM PST
- 	 16 comments
Tax Facts Hardly Anyone Knows 9 Things The Rich Don't Want You To Know About Taxes
- "4. Many of the very richest pay no current income taxes at all: Paulson made himself $9 billion in fees in just two years. His current tax bill on that $9 billion? Zero... 9. Other countries do it better: no one in Germany or the rest of the modern world goes broke because of accident or illness" ( via )
[ more inside ] posted by
kliuless
at 1:41 PM PST
- 	 191 comments
The best of Google Video on MetaFilter
As
discussed
over the weekend, in less than two weeks the millions of videos uploaded to six-year-old erstwhile YouTube competitor Google Video will
no longer be viewable . Though a download button has been added to each video page for easy back-up,
that will only be available though May 13th , and the company will not be offering transfer service for users with YouTube accounts. The search giant has been slowly winding down the service over the years since their billion-dollar buyout of YouTube, controversially
revoking purchased content
(with a refund) in 2007 and
disabling new uploads in 2009 . The shutdown is a big blow to the web video ecosystem, as Google Video was one of the few major services to allow free hosting of long-form video, including the content for many popular MetaFilter posts. But all is not lost! Reddit users have organized
a virtual potluck
to share the most interesting and unique videos not available anywhere else, and the
Archive Team , preserver of doomed web properties like Geocities ( previously ), is partnering with Archive.org to
back up as much content as possible . In that spirit, click inside for a list of some of the most popular Google Video-centric content posted here over the years.
[ more inside ] posted by
Rhaomi
at 1:32 PM PST
- 	 54 comments
On the Media in Egypt NPR's
On the Media
dedicated its hour this weekend to the new Egyptian media landscape
( direct MP3 link ).
[ more inside ] posted by
domnit
at 1:23 PM PST
- 	 5 comments
Prehistoric Beast "Prehistoric Beast"
(1984), a film by
Phil Tippett
[ more inside ] posted by
brundlefly
at 1:11 PM PST
- 	 8 comments
Eat the Titanic? Or, Biological Relay Chat.
In 2000, microbial ecologist
Roy Cullimore
and
Charles Pellegrino (author of Ghosts of the Titanic)
discovered that
the Titanic was being eaten by an extremeophile super-organism, transforming the steel into huge pillars of rust . [ Previously, regarding the Titanic. ]
[ more inside ] posted by
mephron
at 12:56 PM PST
- 	 17 comments
Nouveau Shamanic: The Nicolas Cage Method Nouveau Shamanic: The Nicolas Cage Method.
"I had realized that I’d developed my own style and process and school of acting which is called Nouveau Shamanic..." — Nicolas Cage, 1964- posted by
chunking express
at 11:27 AM PST
- 	 158 comments
Physics of Bicycle Self-Stabilization The physics of bicycle self-stabilization [Science Friday Video]
With bonus
SCIENCE! posted by
odinsdream
at 11:03 AM PST
- 	 16 comments
I am not a Rajneesh
" The tale is stranger than fiction ." begins the opening line of The Oregonians retrospective " Rajneeshees in Oregon The Untold Story ." The cult, began by sex guru
Bhagwan Shree Rajneesh
came to a
self-rule
a
rural part of Oregon
that battled with the
native
residents of the area. The conflict lead to a
bio-terror attack on the residents of The Dalles to sway the outcome of a local election ,
global manhunts , and
jail .
[ more inside ] posted by
wcfields
at 10:38 AM PST
- 	 97 comments
Secret FBI UFO document not so secret
As part of making documents available following Freedom of Information Act requests, the FBI has set up
The Vault , including documents on
unexplained phenomenon . One document in particular, the
Guy Hottel memo , had some proclaiming " these are the real life X-Files ." Except it's not - the document is real, but
the report was based on a hoax
that is
known by many UFO debunkers . posted by
filthy light thief
at 10:38 AM PST
- 	 12 comments
In the country of blinds, the one eyed men are kings.
" English As She Is Spoke
is a broken Portuguese-to-English phrasebook written by two translators, José da Fonseca and Pedro Carolino. Sort of. You see, in reality, translator Pedro Carolino wanted to create a phrasebook on his own. Not knowing English, he took José da Fonseca’s French-to-English phrasebook and then used a Portuguese-to-French phrasebook to translate that. It’s sort of like what you and your friends do on Google Translate, but with a poor, mislead Portuguese man doing it by hand in candlelight."
[ more inside ] posted by
item
at 8:52 AM PST
- 	 52 comments
Fork it Over! Oracle didn't see this coming.
There were some significant concerns when Oracle took stewardship of Sun's open source projects like MySQL and OpenOffice, and these concerns led to contributors to OpenOffice asking Oracle to fork over control of the project. Oracle refused.
[ more inside ] posted by
juiceCake
at 6:57 AM PST
- 	 108 comments
Dark Art by Anton Semenov
The disturbing yet beautifully illustrated world of
Anton Semenov .
[ more inside ] posted by
Gator
at 5:54 AM PST
- 	 8 comments
Gonna ruin some socks on you
The Wank Bank
SLYT from the fine folks of
Burnistoun posted by
mippy
at 3:17 AM PST
- 	 26 comments
Peeps Show V
Peeps Show V : This year's winning diorama depicts the dramatic rescue of 33 mine workers in Copiapo, Chile |
Vote for your favorite
|
Marshmallow Peep Art
|
Peeps Show IV
| Peeps Show III
|
Peeps Show II
| the
first Peep Show
|
Peepshi
(Peep sushi) |
Peepsicles
|
Peep Modernist - The Best Peep Art Creations .
[ more inside ] posted by
nickyskye
at 1:16 AM PST
- 	 21 comments
April 17 On the set of Apocalypse Now
In the tropics one must before everything keep calm.
Some backstory on the making of Apocalypse Now, originally published June of 1977.
[ more inside ] posted by
nevercalm
at 10:54 PM PST
- 	 48 comments
Jack Lemmon, Shirley MacLaine and Fred MacMurray Not Included
For their 43rd anniversary issue, New York Magazine chose "to explore, across time, one of the things that has most defined New York life for centuries and has become a unit of measurement for our successes and failures:
The Apartment: A History of Vertical Living"
/ Sardine Life:
What a century and a half of piled-up housing reveals about us.
[ more inside ] posted by
zarq
at 9:00 PM PST
- 	 33 comments
Japan's Nuclear Crisis Keeps Going Reactor shutdowns nine months away:
Tokyo Electric Power Co.
announced Sunday
that it will take
six to nine months
to complete a
cold shutdown
of the damaged reactors at the Fukushima No. 1 power plant, while the United States proposed a daring plan to use a remote-controlled helicopter and cranes to pluck out their spent fuel rods... If all goes well, displaced residents from the
evacuation zone
should know within six to nine months whether they will be able to go home, trade minister Banri Kaieda said.
[Previously]
[Open MeFi pro vs. con nuclear policy thread]
[ more inside ] posted by
KokuRyu
at 8:19 PM PST
- 	 501 comments
So basically, you’re our fault
In 1946 Charlie Wohlford, leveraging his reputation for repairing Canadian loggers' boots to better than new, founded
Dayton Boots . The company emphasized quality and grew largely on word of mouth. In 2010 they hired
Rethink Canada
for an ad campaign.
The result
was interesting. posted by
ChurchHatesTucker
at 6:42 PM PST
- 	 81 comments
Farewell Good Brothers
Farewell Good
Brothers
"An off-beat, irreverant and often hilarious documentary about the making and the makers of a modern myth - the widespread belief in flying saucers and alien visitations. Combining strange and unusual archive footage from the 1950s with several contemporary interviews, the film focuses on a few people who helped to pioneer such beliefs; the so-called ‘contactees’ and on one leading researcher who believes in them." (1991, 77 mins.) posted by
puny human
at 6:23 PM PST
- 	 13 comments
Straight Outta Union City
Retrospace ( previously ) gives us
a series of cards from lounge acts
that appeared at the Biltmore Motor Hotel in
Union City, Tennessee , sometime in the Seventies.
[ more inside ] posted by
Halloween Jack
at 6:02 PM PST
- 	 12 comments
Wonderful Day Cathy's House
[SLYT]
posted by
Fizz
at 6:00 PM PST
- 	 36 comments
A lover of courthouses
As he travels the highways of America, courthouselover stops in every county and parish along the way to snap
a photo of its courthouse . "From the Prairie-style courthouses in the Dakotas to the antebellum beauties of Alabama, and from the Romanesque masterpieces of Central Texas and Indiana to the Mission style structures of New Mexico, they are all national treasures."
[ more inside ] posted by
SpringAquifer
at 5:54 PM PST
- 	 33 comments
Well Excuse Me, Princess! Is Star Wars sexist?
Cracked examines the lack of strong female characters in Star Wars. posted by
Lovecraft In Brooklyn
at 4:52 PM PST
- 	 125 comments
'We've all been taught that this doesn't happen' A dramatic and surprising magnetic effect of light discovered by University of Michigan researchers could lead to solar power without traditional semiconductor-based solar cells.
posted by
Confess, Fletch
at 4:48 PM PST
- 	 19 comments
"The drug war is war on the underclass now. That’s all it is." Bill Moyers interviews David Simon
"Again, we would have to ask ourselves a lot of hard questions. The people most affected by this are black and brown and poor. It’s the abandoned inner cores of our urban areas. As we said before, economically, we don’t need those people; the American economy doesn’t need them. So as long as they stay in their ghettos and they only kill each other, we’re willing to pay for a police presence to keep them out of our America." posted by
bitmage
at 3:46 PM PST
- 	 67 comments
We can say f--- on TV
" Despite promises that the 43rd Parliament would be kindlier and gentler, it has been characterised by vitriol in question time, a Prime Minister labelled a liar - and outside Parliament, a bitch - and an Opposition Leader called an extremist. Both sides complain the other is mean. " [ So much for kinder, gentler politics ] posted by
vidur
at 1:58 PM PST
- 	 35 comments
brittle efficiency and shallow triumphalism Fareed Zakaria: Are America's Best Days Behind Us?
- "We have an Electoral College that no one understands and a Senate that doesn't work, with rules and traditions that allow a single Senator to obstruct democracy without even explaining why. We have a crazy-quilt patchwork of towns, municipalities and states with overlapping authority, bureaucracies and resulting waste. We have a political system geared toward ceaseless fundraising and pandering to the interests of the present with no ability to plan, invest or build for the future. And if one mentions any of this, why, one is being unpatriotic, because we have the perfect system of government, handed down to us by demigods who walked the earth in the late 18th century and who serve as models for us today and forever. America's founders would have been profoundly annoyed by this kind of unreflective ancestor worship."
[ for / against ] posted by
kliuless
at 1:23 PM PST
- 	 93 comments
Sorry, it was only two cups.
Author Greg Mortenson who wrote
Three Cups of Tea
is facing
claims
that key
stories
in the book are false. "It's a beautiful story. And it's a lie," author
Jon Krakauer
is quoted by
CBS
as saying. posted by
woodjockey
at 10:50 AM PST
- 	 72 comments
Dick & Jane's Spot: a Story of Love & Art
They
created
a home
together that
catches
the
eye , and
their story of love and art
is even more captivating, despite
tragedy
and
loss . posted by
batmonkey
at 9:54 AM PST
- 	 7 comments
Walking While Black Walking While Black is still more of a problem to the NYPD than Biking While White. [SLYT]
This recent incident, caught on video, demonstrates in real time the ways that law enforcement frequently ignores enforcing the law in favor of teaching a lesson to the law-abiding smart aleck.
[ more inside ] posted by
whimsicalnymph
at 8:54 AM PST
- 	 217 comments
Inclusive fitness theory and eusociality
Big
dust up
about kin selection. Biologists E.O. Wilson, Martin Nowak, and Corina Tarnita publish a paper attacking kin selection, the idea that the reproductive success of a gene is influenced not only by its effects on its carrier, but also by its effects on related individuals (kin) carrying the same gene. 130 some odd other
biologists respond .
Richard Dawkins
weighs in . Some talking bears offer a
summary .
[ via ] posted by
AceRock
at 8:18 AM PST
- 	 46 comments
How many souls has the dungeon stole?
How Rogue Ended Up On The Sofa
- a look at the descendants of the classic game, including
MeFi's own
100 Rogues . posted by
Artw
at 7:36 AM PST
- 	 52 comments
"A handbag?!"
What MeFite doesn't like a good
niche museum ? We've had posts about the great overview site
Museum of Museums
[ previously ], Patrick Acton's Matchstick Marvels [ previously
and
previously ], cat museums [ previously ] and even a mention of
Velvetaria, the Museum of Velvet Painting
[ previously ] - sadly now closed, awaiting new digs. I'd like to add a new one. May I present
The Hendrikje Museum of Handbags and Purses ?
[ more inside ] posted by
likeso
at 5:21 AM PST
- 	 30 comments
SWAG. SWAG. SWAG. SWAG. In Defense of Offensive Art
- What the hell does
Odd Future's
music mean? posted by
azarbayejani
at 4:20 AM PST
- 	 46 comments
Pizza Island
Pizza Island
is a cartoonist collective in Brooklyn. Each cartoonist has a workspace unique to their style and workflow:
Kate Beaton ,
Domitille Collardey ,
Sarah Glidden ,
Meredith Gran ,
Lisa Hanawalt , and
Julia Wertz . posted by
Blazecock Pileon
at 3:59 AM PST
- 	 25 comments
The Birka Jazz Archive
The Birka Jazz Archive
is a treasure trove of record jackets from all eras of jazz. American releases are grouped by label (for example,
Columbia ,
Blue Note ,
Atlantic , etc.) with, in some case, further sub-categorization by designers or visual artists (such as the amazing
David Stone Martin ). European releases are sorted by country ( France ,
Sweden ,
Germany , etc.) and it all adds up to a fabulous online resource for jazz fans and graphic design fans alike. posted by
flapjax at midnite
at 3:10 AM PST
- 	 9 comments
April 16 Your teacup is infringing on mine.
Nu-uh, I remixed it.
Cheap 3D printing has the potential to change the way we produce and consume objects in the same way the cheap PCs and the internet changed the way we produce and consume information.
Once again it is
hobbyists
and
university labs
who are democratizing the technology.
They are looking forward to the day when anyone can make
designer bath fixtures ,
functional appliances ,
custom surgical implants , or even
business opportunities
at the click of a button.
However some are warning that
overly broad patents could derail the whole revolution .
Even more worrisome is the prospect that existing IP law is
completely unprepared
for a future where the cost boundary between ideas and physical objects has crumbled.
Will commercial interests demand a
crack down
on "pirated" printouts?
Will Open Source manufacturing bring about
a Star Trekian utopia ?
It's hard to predict what will happen when
everything
is commodified. posted by
Popular Ethics
at 10:14 PM PST
- 	 98 comments
Google "killed the video star"
Google has announced that " on April 29, 2011, videos that have been uploaded to Google Video will no longer be available for playback ". If you happen to have uploaded video on Google Video,
you have until May 13, 2011 to download uploaded videos. posted by
Mike Mongo
at 9:04 PM PST
- 	 148 comments
Top US orchestra faces bankruptcy One of the US's world-class orchestras ...
has decided it
must re-organize to survive . 'A big orchestra has never done this before.'
Led by Stokowski, the
Philadelphia Orchestra
recorded the music for Disney's groundbreaking 1940 animated feature
Fantasia .
The 111-year-old ensemble acquired a top-notch reputation while under the baton of Eugene Ormandy between 1936-1980.
There's been "a 'tremendous decline' in audiences over the past five years." And $33M in revenue won't cover $46M in expenses. posted by
Twang
at 9:02 PM PST
- 	 48 comments
royally silly
Not the Royal Wedding
[slyt]
[ more inside ] posted by
nickyskye
at 8:06 PM PST
- 	 29 comments
AND you tightroped!!!! Lil Buck & Yo-Yo Ma collaboration.
More about the
event . Charles "Lil Buck" Riley is better known for his Memphis Jookin - here are a few samples:
Choppin Like That - Cartoon V ;
Soulja Boy - Birdwalk
and
Paper Planes . He also once made an appearance on Ellen's
Incredible Audience Talents
segment (at about 1:40) posted by
madamjujujive
at 7:55 PM PST
- 	 8 comments
"It was my skirt and my husband and your glass floor."
Last month, the BBC's
Comic Relief
Night
(Red Nose Day,
previously ) featured the premiere of a two-part mini-sketch from "Doctor Who" penned by current showrunner Steven Moffat:
Time
and
Space .
[ more inside ] posted by
zarq
at 7:30 PM PST
- 	 23 comments
Cover Your Nose - or - Love Is In The Air Bad (and some so bad they're good) excerpts from bad romance novels. Includes things like:
"And as he ground sinuously against her tender flesh, she began to quake and contract, whimpering with tortured delight.
Her senses exploded; her very body seemed to dissolve into a fierce, white-hot blast of elemental heat.
And in that boundless, exploding star of pleasure she felt his essence mingle with hers as he buried his face in her hair and erupted, pouring his passion into her soft, responsive frame." posted by
fantodstic
at 6:41 PM PST
- 	 95 comments
Democracy revoked. Benton Harbor's elected officials
have been unelected by the Governor of Michigan.
[ more inside ] posted by
tomswift
at 6:28 PM PST
- 	 73 comments
ba-ba-baba wak-wakka-wakka: Into The Music Library
Ubiquitous yet mysterious, timeless yet tied to a golden age, mainstream yet frequently experimental: the BBC steps
Into The Music Library . While music libraries like DeWolfe and KPM are best known as the source of many
classic TV themes and film soundtracks , they're also responsible for incidental compilations are now both influential and appreciated in their own right, such as Basil Kirchin's
Abstractions of the Industrial North
and Barbara Moore's
Vocal Shades and Tones . posted by
holgate
at 5:36 PM PST
- 	 4 comments
Notes From Chris
Todd Lamb has put together a
gallery of notes he's posted around New York City
which request people to meet "Chris" to do tedious things. ( Previous Todd Lamb )
[ more inside ] posted by
gman
at 4:59 PM PST
- 	 25 comments
The Clean Sheets Revival Show
I ain't gonna pee-pee my bed tonight . YouTUbe; 2.10.
[ more inside ] posted by
bwg
at 4:49 PM PST
- 	 51 comments
Observing Earth
We tend to think of blogs that showcase large images as a phenomenon of the past few years. But NASA's Earth Observatory has been posting its
Image of the Day
since April 1999 (when its first "large" image available for download was
a 214 KB jpeg of the North Pole ). Now, Image of the Day has downloads of images in multiple formats, most of which measure in megabytes, not kilobytes, and these stunning images of the earth's surface give context to the human activity down below:
a toxic spill in Hungary ,
wildfires in Mexico , the growth of
a coal mine in West Virginia ,
agriculture in Brazil ,
snowmelt flooding in Fargo, North Dakota ,
last year's oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico ,
artificial islands in Dubai ,
the aftermath of Japan's recent tsunami . posted by
ocherdraco
at 4:26 PM PST
- 	 4 comments
Yet Another Music Sequencer A cellular-automaton-based music sequencer.
For when you're ready to upgrade from the (multiply)
previously posted
Matrix
Watch
this demo
for inspiration. posted by
Obscure Reference
at 4:20 PM PST
- 	 29 comments
I Have 1 Day
I Have 1 Day
is a pixel-graphic point-and-click game, very cleverly executed.
[ more inside ] posted by
timory
at 2:44 PM PST
- 	 12 comments
"If the national mental illness of the United States is megalomania, that of Canada is paranoid schizophrenia." - Margaret Atwood Dear Canada:
[SLYT]
An Open Letter to Canada. posted by
Fizz
at 2:34 PM PST
- 	 33 comments
tickling animal roundup of cuteness Attention Internet: This is a penguin being tickled.
[ more inside ] posted by
flex
at 2:24 PM PST
- 	 70 comments
When Did Girls Start Wearing Pink?
"The march toward
gender-specific clothes
was neither linear nor rapid. Pink and blue arrived, along with other pastels, as colors for babies in the mid-19th century, yet the two colors were not promoted as gender signifiers until just before World War I—and even then, it took time for popular culture to sort things out." posted by
Houyhnhnm
at 10:40 AM PST
- 	 58 comments
I'm in love. What's that song? Color Me Obsessed
is a new documentary about legendary Minneapolis rock band
The Replacements . It features over 140 interviews with rockers, journalists and fans (including Colin Meloy, Craig Finn, Tommy Ramone and Robert Christgau) but not one note of the Mats music. Director Gorman Bechard has been documenting the making of the film on his
blog
and screening it in
select cities. posted by
Lovecraft In Brooklyn
at 9:49 AM PST
- 	 63 comments
Timelapse El Tiede: The Mountain.
A timelapse of shots taken from the El Tiede mountain, known for being an excellent site for astrological observations. Includes a timelapse of the Milky Way, as seen through a sandstorm coming off from the Sahara Desert. (SLYT) posted by
flibbertigibbet
at 9:46 AM PST
- 	 15 comments
The Other Birthers; or, Trig Trutherism Palin, the Press, and the Fake Pregnancy Rumor: Did a Spiral of Silence Shut Down the Story?
Kentucky journalism professor
Brad Scharlott
makes a case.
Reporter (and former Palin communications director)
Bill
McAllister , mentioned by name in Scharlott's article, says
'If we ever meet, I'll slap you.'
Scharlott writes an
op-ed
in response.
[ more inside ] posted by
box
at 7:50 AM PST
- 	 232 comments
Tina Fey's A Mother’s Prayer for Its Child
"First, Lord: No tattoos. May neither Chinese symbol for truth nor Winnie-the-Pooh holding the FSU logo stain her tender haunches." Tina Fey's
The Mother’s Prayer for Its Daughter
from her new book Bossypants. You can hear her read this piece at the beginning of her
interview with Terry Gross on Fresh Air . posted by
Kattullus
at 7:26 AM PST
- 	 94 comments
How to Disappear Completely Mike Massé does a lot of nice covers - to a smattering of customers live at Pie Pizza in South Jordan, Utah
[ more inside ] posted by
Arch_Stanton
at 7:19 AM PST
- 	 10 comments
Join the Adventure The Captain John Smith Chesapeake National Historic Trail
is America’s first water-based national historic trail. It consists of the combined routes of Smith’s historic voyages on the Chesapeake Bay and its tributaries in 1607-1609. Designated by Congress in December 2006, the trail stretches approximately 3,000 miles up and down the Bay and along tributaries in Virginia, Maryland, Delaware, and the District of Columbia.
[ more inside ] posted by
netbros
at 6:37 AM PST
- 	 5 comments
Look Ma, no hands! Chinese Pole Dancing
(SLYT, SFW) — More than it says on the tin. posted by
cenoxo
at 6:34 AM PST
- 	 17 comments
The Origin of All Language
In the current issue of
Science , a New Zealand researcher,
Quentin Atkinson
has published his findings there was a single origin of human language.
(abtract only: article behind paywall)
Using the
phoneme
as the unit of analysis, Atkinson investigated whether phonemes demonstrated a serial
founder effect , analogous to the genetic process. Results support
an African origin
of human language.
[ more inside ] posted by
palindromic
at 6:13 AM PST
- 	 30 comments
Coffee and Torts
Hot Coffee , a documentary film by Susan Saladoff, debuted at
Sundance
to considerably more enthusiasm than one would expect for a film about tort reform.
[ more inside ] posted by
steambadger
at 6:07 AM PST
- 	 32 comments
The Devil wears Communist Mime, PhD.
Model's 'underweight' appearance due to lighting, make-up and low-cut dress rules the Advertising Standards Authority.
[ more inside ] posted by
hal_c_on
at 5:52 AM PST
- 	 29 comments
Ctrl-C, Ctrl-V, Amen File-Sharers Await Official Recognition of New Religion
* All knowledge to all
* The search for knowledge is sacred
* The circulation of knowledge is sacred
* The act of copying is sacred.
Too religious for you?
Then try the
remix
manifesto . posted by
telstar
at 3:21 AM PST
- 	 59 comments
April 15 Oh, pretty old thing.
Not just the young: Photographer Isa Leshko shows us
elderly animals
(and a few more on
her own site ) . posted by
nobody
at 9:25 PM PST
- 	 25 comments
I vote... DIE! The mustache is back.
(SLFODVRSVPLMNOP) posted by
Slap*Happy
at 9:02 PM PST
- 	 26 comments
Hang the bankers
"Let's start hanging bankers, I think that could be a solution"
(slyt) posted by
445supermag
at 7:41 PM PST
- 	 76 comments
Wonder where your taxes went? Well, here you go. Your 2010 Federal Taxpayer Receipt.
"In his State of the Union Address, President Obama promised that this year, for the first time ever, American taxpayers would be able to go online and see exactly how their federal tax dollars are spent. Just enter a few pieces of information about your taxes, and the taxpayer receipt will give you a breakdown of how your tax dollars are spent on priorities like education, veterans benefits, or health care."
[ more inside ] posted by
saulgoodman
at 7:20 PM PST
- 	 76 comments
How Ayn Rand Ruined My Childhood "We were wondering if you would petition to be emancipated," he said in his lawyer voice.
"What does that mean?" I asked, picking at the mauve paint on my hands. I later discovered that for most kids, declaring emancipation is an extreme measure -- something you do if your parents are crack addicts or deadbeats.
"You would need to become financially independent," he said. "You could work for me at my law firm and pay rent to live here."
This was my moment of truth as an objectivist. If I believed in the glory of the individual, I would've signed the petition papers then and there. But as much as Rand's novels had taught me to believe in meritocracy, they had not prepared me to go it alone financially and emotionally. I began to cry and refused. posted by
fernabelle
at 6:10 PM PST
- 	 102 comments
James Merrill
On living in the
James
Merrill
House
by
Ivy Pochoda
from
Writers' Houses . Poems referenced:
Willoware Cup
::
The Victor Dog
::
Mirabell: Books of Number
::
Lost in Translation
::
Another April
::
The Book
of Ephraim
::
The Mad Scene posted by
puny human
at 5:29 PM PST
- 	 6 comments
Why I'm a Good Christian by Ricky Gervais
On the cusp of Holy Week, Ricky Gervais enlightens
with an essay
outlining why he is a good Christian.
[ more inside ] posted by
hugandpint
at 4:37 PM PST
- 	 69 comments
"And ... this little pinky went to ... "
"J. Crew's president and creative director Jenna Lyons
painting the toenails of her son Beckett
in an ad was sent to customers last week in a feature, ' Saturday with Jenna .' *
"'Lucky for me I ended up with a boy whose favorite color is pink,' says the caption. 'Toenail painting is way more fun in neon.'" Result: social conservatives go nuts.
[ more inside ] posted by
ericb
at 4:15 PM PST
- 	 105 comments
Vampire hunter B Bela Kovacs and the Trail of Blood
is an involving little flash mystery puzzler, mostly finding items and clues, but with more variety than the general escape-the-room game and nice atmospherics. posted by
klangklangston
at 3:47 PM PST
- 	 9 comments
And nothing of value was lost
Founded in 2004 as a place to catalog LiveJournal drama rejected from Wikipedia,
Encyclopedia Dramatica
rapidly became the premier site on the web for all manner of
lulz . Intended
"in the spirit of Ambrose Bierce's
The Devil's Dictionary ,"
ED grew into a sprawling crowdsourced compendium of memes, subcultures, communities, personalities, and the endless feuds and controversies spawned by
4chan
and
other anonymous imageboards . While comprehensive, the site developed a reputation for nastiness -- full of "ironic" (?) racism, gratuitous porn, organized attacks on other sites, and disturbingly thorough dossiers on perceived enemies, all dripping with vicious snark (just check out
their entry on MetaFilter ). But now, after more than six years, it appears the troll has become the trolled. Founder Sherrod "Girlvinyl" DeGrippo, allegedly
disillusioned
by the site's
legal woes
and
nihilistic trajectory , has
permanently shuttered the site
and replaced it with
OhInternet , a slicker, cleaner, Web 2.0 effort modeled after more respectable internet guides like
Know Your Meme
(which recently sold to
Cheezburger Networks
for a cool
$N million , discussed
here ).
Backups and mirrors abound , but as for the source? Pool's closed...
forever . posted by
Rhaomi
at 3:27 PM PST
- 	 85 comments
maps of famous journeys in history and fiction
Wanderlust :
GOOD Magazine, in collaboration with
Graham Roberts , maps the most famous journeys in history - some fiction, some non-fiction. Wanderlust includes trips like Around the World in 80 Days and Journey to the Center of the Earth to the voyages of Marco Polo and Charles Lindbergh's transatlantic flight. However, it's not just a map with journey lines on it; Wanderlust is a history lesson. Select a trip for a summary and explore highlights of the journey. posted by
nickyskye
at 2:34 PM PST
- 	 3 comments
No Press Pass At least nine foreign and six Libyan jouranlists are missing
in Libya. Three of the Western journalists
were spotted in a detention camp
in Tripoli. Two others are still missing and unaccounted for , South African
Anton Lazarus Hammerl
and American freelancer
Matthew VanDyke . The Committee to Protect Journalists has documented
over 80 attacks on the press
in the last month. With Qaddafi forces
firing cluster bombs in civilian areas , one wonders how we can expect these journalists to be returned safely home. Perhaps Turkey
can intercede ? There is a
facebook campaign
for at least one of the journalists. Of course, this
problem is worldwide . posted by
cal71
at 1:59 PM PST
- 	 10 comments
FBI Goes 'All In' Online Poker Doomsday.
Feds
indicted
eleven executives at
PokerStars, Full Tilt Poker and Absolute Poker.
They face charges of bank fraud and money laundering. Prosecutors also want
$3 billion
in civil money laundering penalties.
Poker players panic .
[ more inside ] posted by
Yakuman
at 1:24 PM PST
- 	 123 comments
Management Lessons from The Prince of Pranks
"In the sweet leisure of his retirement — if you don’t count the chemotherapy — former Poynter
president Jim Naughton " (and the only member of the White House Press Corps to ever question a
US President
while wearing a
chicken
head ,) has written a memoir: " 46 Frogs: Tales of a Serial Prankster ."
Poynter Online has posted four excerpts as part of their ongoing
Best Practices: Leadership & Management
series:
*
Turning the boss’s office into a fun & inviting place
*
How bringing 46 live frogs into the newsroom fosters a philosophy of fun
*
How newsroom humor can create a sense of togetherness
*
Interviewing the U.S. president while wearing a chicken head posted by
zarq
at 1:15 PM PST
- 	 4 comments
Carolyn Wonderland's vows. Monkee included!
Why did Carolyn Wonderland
sing her wedding vows
to her husband A. Whitney Brown?
Because she can . The Story
[NYT link] . Also,
a pic of the happy couple with Michael Nesmith
presiding.
[ more inside ] posted by
KevinSkomsvold
at 12:44 PM PST
- 	 20 comments
Norman Mailer's Apt
Norman Mailer's
apartment . Available now. posted by
littlemanclan
at 12:08 PM PST
- 	 19 comments
At the intesection of physics simulators, games, and awesomeness
Somewhere between the ultimate physics simulator and a freeform 2-D version of Minecraft lies
The Powder Toy , a free download for
Windows ,
Mac , and
Linux . With over
150 elements
available to build from (and a full implementation of the game of life), users have built "working"
electricity-generating reactors ,
rockets , and
destructible city models . The Powder Toy is a variant on the venerable
Falling Sand Game , the most impressive version of which is the
Powder Game , now up to version 8, and playable online as a Java applet.
[ more inside ] posted by
blahblahblah
at 11:37 AM PST
- 	 22 comments
Because sometimes a hostel just doesn't cut it.
Rent Liechtenstein.
Last Summer,
Snoop Dogg tried
to rent
Liechtenstein
for a music video shoot. Now, thanks to
Airbnb,
you can actually
rent the entire country for $70k a night,
with a two-night minimum.
[ more inside ] posted by
Lutoslawski
at 10:35 AM PST
- 	 59 comments
Walk The Dinosaur
Life Size Dinosaur Puppet Scares Children at Elementary School. posted by
ActingTheGoat
at 9:41 AM PST
- 	 99 comments
Everything you would only do in the privacy of your own home, Jon Kyl prefers to do on a subway car. #NotIntendedToBeAFactualStatement
Last week during the Senate budget negotiations,
Sen. Jon Kyl (R-Ariz.) , gave a speech that included the following statement:
" If you want an abortion, you go to Planned Parenthood, and that’s well over 90 percent of what Planned Parenthood does. " That statement is drastically different from
the statistics reported by Planned Parenthood , which list 90 percent of its services as preventive in nature, compared with 3 percent that are abortion-related. When asked about this apparent discrepancy, Jon Kyl's office replied that " his remark was not intended to be a factual statement ." And that is when things got noisy.
[ more inside ] posted by
filthy light thief
at 8:59 AM PST
- 	 136 comments
Caution: Do NOT Lick! I Heart Banana Slugs, or Is That Piece of Poop Moving?!
Daniel Williford , a District Interpretive Specialist working in the Bay Area's Santa Cruz Mountains, gives an enthusiastic overview of the beloved banana slug.
[ more inside ] posted by
PepperMax
at 7:29 AM PST
- 	 50 comments
I Really Like Focusing on the Tiny Details
Kiva Ford is an
incredibly talented glassblower . By day, he creates custom scientific glassware for research and discovery chemistry. In his off hours, he creates
artistic glass pieces
that are both lovely and impossibly small.
[ more inside ] posted by
avoision
at 7:16 AM PST
- 	 32 comments
Everywhere There's Lots of Piggies
Friday Flash Fun!
In
Pigs Can Fly , navigate a cute little
piggy
to the magic potion to help him grow wings and fly away. posted by
phunniemee
at 7:13 AM PST
- 	 9 comments
Mench kissing in the UK
"I'm not the kind of person to do that kind of thing in public,"
says Jonathan Williams, one of two men on a first date asked to leave the
John Snow
pub for "obscene" behavior on Wednesday.
[ more inside ] posted by
running order squabble fest
at 6:28 AM PST
- 	 90 comments
A taste of fructose is worse than none at all? Is Sugar Toxic?
9 pages, plus 90 minutes of
extra science . [ Previously ] posted by
rusty
at 5:49 AM PST
- 	 95 comments
Song of Songs
Tablet Magazine
has published a list of
The 100 Greatest Jewish Songs
[ more inside ] posted by
beisny
at 12:29 AM PST
- 	 64 comments
April 14 And introducing...
A 1970s recording of
Mike Oldfield and friends playing Tubular Bells live
part 1
Part 2
Part 3 posted by
boo_radley
at 11:31 PM PST
- 	 53 comments
Lynn Tilton: Billionaire Industrialist and Woman Lynn Tilton: Billionaire 1
Industrialist 2
and Woman 3 .
Does what it says on the can.
[ more inside ] posted by
davidpriest.ca
at 9:33 PM PST
- 	 65 comments
Want to Be My Boyfriend? Please Define Want to Be My Boyfriend? Please Define
is the winner of a 2008 New York Times essay competition asking college students to write about what love is like for them. The
competition runs again
this year. posted by
shivohum
at 8:45 PM PST
- 	 70 comments
"....prepares for the hunt." BBC Human Planet: The Douche
For a few weeks, the BBC film crew had the opportunity to follow a unique specimen, they were able to observe and record its mannerisms, rituals and way of life. The result of this is BBC Human Planet: The Douche. posted by
Fizz
at 8:30 PM PST
- 	 49 comments
Wokka wokka wokka wokka wokka wokka
Do you like Pac-Man but always thought "What this game really needs is to be a gigantic, player-created never-ending maze of interconnected Pac-Man boards"? Me neither.
Fortunately, someone else did.
[ more inside ] posted by
40 Watt
at 8:28 PM PST
- 	 38 comments
Secrets of the Tax-Prep Business
" Customers wanting a RAL paid Jackson Hewitt a $24 application fee, a $25 processing fee, and a $2 electronic-filing fee, plus 4 percent of the loan amount. On a $2,000 refund, that meant $131 in charges—equivalent to an annual interest rate of about 170 percent— not to mention the few hundred bucks you might spend for tax preparation . " posted by
vidur
at 7:40 PM PST
- 	 71 comments
Blow Up The Pokies
"In life you often look around for someone or something to compare yourself favourably with. The games dealers and supervisors in a casino whose souls are troubled can look to the poker machines and say, well at least we provide entertainment (we’re in the hospitality industry, don’t you know!). But in reality, that was just bullshit we told ourselves. The machines blinked and made music while they took the money; we smiled and chatted aimlessly while we took it."
Former casino worker Greg Jericho has written an exhaustive article about the human and economic costs of poker machines.
It comes in the middle of an
anti-pokies campaign
by Independent Senator Nick Xenophon that is being
bitterly opposed
by the Australian Hotels Association. posted by
Lovecraft In Brooklyn
at 7:37 PM PST
- 	 47 comments
Check out my voodoo mask!
Excellent footage
of the stunningly beautiful yet bizarre courtship and mating behavior of the
Peacock Spider. This is quite possibly the first footage of this quality that shows this behavior. Many jumping spiders have elaborate courtship dances.
More Previously. posted by
lazaruslong
at 6:57 PM PST
- 	 73 comments
By hitting your brain. That's How. How a Magnet Can Turn Off Speech
posted by
jefficator
at 6:56 PM PST
- 	 51 comments
Kittens. Poptarts. Rainbows.
Kittens. Poptarts. Rainbows. posted by
jenkinsEar
at 6:12 PM PST
- 	 45 comments
Even I could score better than this.
Kevin Na
made it to the 9th hole of the first round of the Valero Texas Open on Thursday with a decent score of one under. Unfortunately, he left the hole with a
much,
much
worse score .
[ more inside ] posted by
RyanAdams
at 5:47 PM PST
- 	 41 comments
Tony Orrico: Human Spirograph Tony Orrico: Human Spirograph
( Via )
[ more inside ] posted by
ColdChef
at 4:52 PM PST
- 	 21 comments
Almost Insideout Ninja
A
postmortem
at gamasutra on the independently developed game
Super
Meat
Boy . On their design philosophy that in part makes the game so popular: "It was vital for us to bring back the difficulty of the retro age, but also reinvent the idea of what difficulty meant. Frustration was the biggest part of retro difficulty and something we felt needed to be removed at all costs, in order to give the player a sense of accomplishment without discouraging them to the point of quitting. At its core, this idea was quite basic: Remove lives, reduce respawn time, keep the levels short and keep the goal always in sight. On top of these refinements, we added constant positive feedback, and even death became something to enjoy when you knew that upon completing the level you would be rewarded with an epic showing of all your past deaths. The replay feature was a way to remind the player that they were getting better through their own actions and reinforce that feeling of accomplishment of doing something difficult and succeeding." posted by
SpacemanStix
at 4:47 PM PST
- 	 18 comments
Karmin Covers
"Hello, we are
Karmin ! The little band with a big sound. A girl with a guitar and a guy with a box. Amy and Nick from Boston."
Look At Me Now - Chris Brown ft. Lil Wayne
::
Written in the Stars - Tinie Tempah
::
Teenage Dream - Katy Perry
::
We R Who We R - Ke$ha
::
Price Tag - Jessie J
::
website posted by
puny human
at 4:27 PM PST
- 	 37 comments
Acoustic Version of C418's "Sweden" from Minecraft
A very eloquent and tranquil performance of a young chap from Sweden playing C418's
"Sweden"
that you may have heard from Minecraft on classical guitar (SLYT) posted by
Cogentesque
at 3:52 PM PST
- 	 6 comments
Skating through B-school
Rarely is the question asked --
is our business majors learning ? posted by
escabeche
at 3:03 PM PST
- 	 98 comments
"Dead, dead, dead, dead, dead, he’s fucking dead, the guy from Brainiac is fucking dead. I want this to mean something to every fucking one of you."
15 years ago
Dayton, Ohio band
Brainiac
released their
third , and
final full-length
album
Hissing Prigs in Static Couture
on
Touch & Go records . Lead by
Tim Taylor
on vocals/keyboards the album
perfected
a brand of
short-circuit
robot
rock
that made
dance
music
out of
violent
shrieks
and
spasms . The band has been credited by
Trent Rezor in 'really inspiring to me from a sonic influence'
and
eulogized by Jeff Buckley
at
his last
gig .
[ more inside ] posted by
wcfields
at 1:08 PM PST
- 	 41 comments
Smile, Paul!
In a
heartbreakingly candid blog post , Paul finally explains his deepest, darkest secret to his friends, his family and the world:
That last photo I'm aware of that exists with me smiling with an open mouth is my eighth grade school picture. [...] By the time I was 17, I had cavities in three of my top front teeth and virtually no enamel resembling anything pearly or white when I opened my mouth...so I quit opening it.
His blog
now follows his progress as
he goes through reconstructive dental care ,
shares anecdotes
from his past, and encourages others to
ask for help . posted by
halseyaa
at 1:02 PM PST
- 	 84 comments
"I was 100 percent deceived. One hundred percent." The Truth About Race, Religion, And The Honor Code At BYU.
Deadspin has released an exposé on Brigham Young University's
Honor
Code , which prohibits students from having sex or drinking alcohol.
The article accuses the University of selectively punishing minority (and especially African American) athletes who violate the Code. Co-authored by
Darron Smith,
a former BYU instructor. Responses from former BYU students at
Religion Dispatches , the
Deseret News
and the Provo
Daily Herald .
( Previously )
[ more inside ] posted by
zarq
at 12:46 PM PST
- 	 133 comments
all about the brain
Allen Human Brain Atlas - Brain Explorer 2 is a desktop software application for viewing the human brain anatomy and gene expression data in 3D . "Until now,
a definitive map of the human brain at this level of detail
simply hasn't existed," said Allan Jones, the nonprofit institute's chief executive. "For the first time, we have generated a comprehensive map of the brain that includes the underlying biochemistry." |
Functional Neuroanatomy
|
10 Great Sites for Reviewing Brain Anatomy
|
Harvard Brain Atlas . Bonus link:
Brain massage with cosmic energy application in Pushkar, India .
[ more inside ] posted by
nickyskye
at 12:18 PM PST
- 	 12 comments
CONTINUE? 9 ... 8 ... 7 ... 6 ...
Videogame players die
a thousand deaths , complete with appropriately nostalgic
soundtrack . [ via BB ] posted by
bayani
at 12:17 PM PST
- 	 32 comments
Susan Lucci's Soap Bubble Pops ABC cancels
“All My Children” and “One Life to Live.”
Thanks to the slow decline of soap operas -- and the coming signoff of cable's
SOAPnet , two more daytime series will end decades-long runs. The
replacements
are a food show called
The Chew
and a lifestyle show tentatively titled
The Revolution . AMC ends in September and OLTL in December; SOAPnet goes dark in January, 2012
[ more inside ] posted by
Yakuman
at 12:07 PM PST
- 	 112 comments
Trevor dances in the Apple Store
iTr3vor
does not seem to know how to un-mirror his video clips and has only the vaguest understanding of copyright law. But he does like dancing in Apple Stores to the works of
Britney Spears ,
Lady Gaga , and
Rebecca Black , among others. posted by
silby
at 11:11 AM PST
- 	 93 comments
The Zoopreme Court is much cuter than the Supreme Court Zoopreme Court
Ever wanted to remember all the justices of the Supreme Court, past and present? Well it's a whole lot easier if they are animals. Dan Schofield and Alice DuBois are illustrating all 112 justices as various critters, as well as several landmark cases. posted by
melissam
at 10:54 AM PST
- 	 17 comments
A national strategic narrative
On April 8, the Pentagon released a
report
entitled:
"A National Strategic Narrative"
written by two senior members of the Joint Chiefs of Staff in a 'personal capacity'.
[ more inside ] posted by
Comrade_robot
at 10:38 AM PST
- 	 44 comments
The All Asked For Who
I'd like to welcome you all lords and ladies, gentlemen, ladies, time-ladies, time-lords, aliens and those of you in the cheap seats to a documentary produced and aired by WYES-TV New Orleans in 1986, focusing on Panopticon, the first US Doctor Who convention. ( 1 ,
2 ,
3 ) (MLYT, in authentic multi-copy VHS fuzz-o-vision!)
[ more inside ] posted by
fearfulsymmetry
at 10:25 AM PST
- 	 17 comments
Hand drawn 3D comics lettering: Stone Type
Hand drawn 3D comics lettering:
Stone
Type . Classic front page lettering from Superman, The Spirit, Sgt. Rock, La Garage Hermetique, The Incredible Hulk &c. posted by
Tom-B
at 10:09 AM PST
- 	 14 comments
Just Write It!
Fans of George RR Martin's "The Song of Ice and Fire" series are eagerly awaiting "A Dance With Dragons", the next book. This anticipation has led to
hostility from some fans as to Martin's work ethic and the manner in which he spends his personal time . posted by
reenum
at 9:50 AM PST
- 	 206 comments
The Free-Banking vs. Central-Banking Debate Out of thin air?
"Have you ever said something like 'Let me buy you a beer next week'? I'm sure you have. We all issue promises of this sort. And we frequently use such promises as a form of currency... I have just described a simple credit exchange. Societies rely heavily on promising-making and promise-keeping. It is the foundation of all financial markets. I'd like to point out something about the promises you make. They are made 'out of thin air.' "
[ more inside ] posted by
kliuless
at 9:41 AM PST
- 	 47 comments
Gondryesque
MLVP: directing duo
DAN IELS '
( previously )
video for
Manchester Orchestra 's
"Simple Math" . posted by
progosk
at 9:30 AM PST
- 	 4 comments
Food Foto Fakery Found: Floravores Furious
VegNews , the vegan lifestyle magazine, regularly publishes recipes for vegan dishes, with accompanying food-porn photos. Yesterday, VegNews was
revealed to be using stock photos of actual meat dishes
to represent their vegan analogues. Vegans are, understandably, appalled. But in an industry where
deceptive food photography
is customary, is authenticity of food illlustration a valid concern? posted by
Pants McCracky
at 8:36 AM PST
- 	 162 comments
Son of Dave
Benjamin Darvill, a.k.a.
Son of Dave , is a one-man band of sorts, combining harmonica, vocals, beat-boxing, a rattle and foot-stomping to create his own infectious form of blues. Darvill, a Canadian formerly with Crash Test Dummies, has released four albums to date as Son of Dave, his latest and best being 'Shake A Bone', recorded and mixed by Steve Albini in Chicago, the title track used briefly in an episode of Breaking Bad.
[ more inside ] posted by
bwg
at 8:06 AM PST
- 	 3 comments
Working against the market consensus can be a winning strategy. Everything Popular Is Wrong.
Stefan Goldmann
on the state of electronic music.
[ more inside ] posted by
mkb
at 7:40 AM PST
- 	 62 comments
In Soviet Russia, Photoshop Crops You! An interesting article from Wired about Soviet photo manipulations from the 1960s space race.
[ more inside ] posted by
PepperMax
at 7:10 AM PST
- 	 14 comments
Make Fake Army, Go To Jail 1) Make fake army 2) Collect Fees 3) Profit 4) Go to Jail
- Yupeng Deng created the U.S. Army/Military Special Forces Reserve Unit in Southern California for Asian immigrants. Unfortunately for all, the US Government wasn't aware of this...
SGV Tribune story
(pictures),
NY Times story posted by
Argyle
at 6:57 AM PST
- 	 42 comments
It's a finglonger, obviously
The
NIST Digital Archives
is an online collection of scientific instruments from the
National Institute of Standards and Technology . But even the experts don't always know what it is they've got, and
they'd like your help . Any idea what you're supposed to do with
Eight Dials Set in a Wooden Frame ? How about
Metal Instrument in Wood Case ? posted by
Horace Rumpole
at 6:56 AM PST
- 	 20 comments
The Galileo Lectures, from Radio New Zealand Galileo Lectures
In 2009, to mark the 400th anniversary of Galileo first turning a telescope skywards, Radio New Zealand National, in partnership with the Royal Society of New Zealand, released this kickin' series of five lectures spanning the evolution of cosmology, extra-solar planets, near-earth objects, the nascent field of neutrino astronomy and prospects for the future as the Square Kilometre Array radio telescope comes online early in the next decade. It's a great listen and best of all, it's free to download as MP3 or Ogg Vorbis! posted by
treyka
at 6:04 AM PST
- 	 4 comments
There's a name for that.
Does
this
give
you
head
tingles ?
It's ASMR.
Autonomous
Sensory
Meridian
Response .
And no, it's not
masterbatory . Need another
fix ?
[ more inside ] posted by
GamesRmeLife
at 5:53 AM PST
- 	 96 comments
Going, going, gone...
2010 was the United Nations International Year of Biodiversity ,
in case you missed it . posted by
londonmark
at 4:43 AM PST
- 	 1 comment
I sing the body electric
Hello, my name is
FRIDA . I am a
concept , developed as part of the
Rosetta project , en EU-funded initiative to support the development of
robots . Take a good
look at me .
I can be very romantic. posted by
anigbrowl
at 1:10 AM PST
- 	 21 comments
April 13 Cute Roulette Cute Roulette
posted by
Blazecock Pileon
at 11:58 PM PST
- 	 29 comments
Indoor cultivation of Marijuana and AGW
PDF: Indoor cultivation of Cannabis
is estimated to consume 20 TWh/year, equivalent to that of 2 million average US homes. This is about 1% of national electricity consumption, and results in emission of 17 million metric tons of CO2 to contribute to global warming.
[ more inside ] posted by
Chocolate Pickle
at 9:10 PM PST
- 	 89 comments
We are Sex Bob-Omb and we are here to make you think about death and get sad and stuff. Shaun of the Dead in 30 Seconds, Scott Pilgrim Style
[ more inside ] posted by
Lovecraft In Brooklyn
at 7:14 PM PST
- 	 40 comments
Solarized Solarized is the mother of all colour schemes.
"Solarized is a sixteen color palette (eight monotones, eight accent colors) designed for use with terminal and gui applications. It has several unique properties. I designed this colorscheme with both precise CIELAB lightness relationships and a refined set of hues based on fixed color wheel relationships. It has been tested extensively in real world use on color calibrated displays (as well as uncalibrated/intentionally miscalibrated displays) and in a variety of lighting conditions." posted by
chunking express
at 7:07 PM PST
- 	 95 comments
The Social Network, The Room, The Social Network All of the media consumed by Steven Soderbergh in one year
[ PDF ] posted by
shakespeherian
at 6:56 PM PST
- 	 46 comments
Not an Er in it Hugh Grant's Linda Tripp.
The movie star puts his press pass in his hat band and makes the front page with an exposé of a paparazzi.
[ more inside ] posted by
Diablevert
at 6:01 PM PST
- 	 35 comments
"We went to fight with flags.... Gadhafi forced us back to the stone age."
Shortly after the
unrest in Libya
started,
the country was cut off from the internet , cell phone infrastructure was limited
and used to send SMS messages calling on subscribers to attack foreigners , and satellite phones were jammed. In response,
engineers have recently re-routed some of the national cellphone network to make a new system, Free Libya .
[ more inside ] posted by
filthy light thief
at 4:50 PM PST
- 	 15 comments
Tipping: Yay or Nay?
Australian author, John Birmingham, recently visited New York and
has written an op-ed piece on the tipping culture in America . He found it strange, given
tipping
does not exist in Australia
but he wondered if Australia should perhaps adopt it, especially if it could provide
an increased level of service . However given the oft-discussed
troubles with tipping
and the
somewhat
decent base wage in Australia, one might think adopting tipping is
probably not
a good idea. Even
some
US businesses
are now banning employees from taking tips, so perhaps this form of payment-for-service, described by Birmingham as "an excuse for slavery" will see its end soon. posted by
Effigy2000
at 4:26 PM PST
- 	 293 comments
Sleepy Kitty wake up, cat!
posted by
puny human
at 3:34 PM PST
- 	 69 comments
Senator James Inhofe
A released FAA investigation describes how in October last year,
Senator James Inhofe
(R-OK) deliberately landed his plane on a closed runway, and then caused the plane to "hop" over terrified construction workers and their vehicles. More recently, Senator Inhofe has
taken to the Senate floor
in praise of his friend (and friend of
C Street ), deposed Ivory Coast strongman
Laurent Gbagbo . [ Previously ,
previously ] posted by
East Manitoba Regional Junior Kabaddi Champion '94
at 2:28 PM PST
- 	 81 comments
KidZania
The candy cigarette has found a rightful heir.
KidZania, an international chain of family entertainment centers, invites children to be the adults in a simulated city-state. It claims to teach children about work and money, but its critics say that KidZania, full of sponsored and branded activities, is an early introduction to corporate consumerism.
( via ) posted by
domnit
at 2:00 PM PST
- 	 47 comments
Straight baby thighs son
Ghostface Killah's
Top 10 Softest Rappers
in the game posted by
AceRock
at 1:40 PM PST
- 	 79 comments
Seriously? Tell me some other shit! Shit Harper Did
Does exactly what it says on the can.
Example: "Canadian PM Stephen Harper weakened regulations so that more pesticide residue could be left on your fruits and vegetables." "Harper decorated the government lobby in parliament with photos of just himself, instead of the traditional portraits of former Prime Ministers." And much more. posted by
Fizz
at 12:54 PM PST
- 	 96 comments
Sort of a one-man [sports] Metafilter
Quickish
is a new site offering "real-time-ish" short-form sports news and analysis links, gathered and recommended by the site's proprietor, Dan Shanoff. Link suggestions from readers are welcome.
NiemanLab interviews Shanoff . If his name sounds familiar, it's because he used to do the
Daily Quickie
on ESPN.com. posted by
beagle
at 12:31 PM PST
- 	 4 comments
Prisoner 918
802 Prisoners attempted escape from Auschwitz. 144 were successful. Kazimierz Piechowski, a Polish boy scout, was one of them. Today, at age 91,
he tells his story .
[ more inside ] posted by
zarq
at 12:21 PM PST
- 	 30 comments
A real dandy plant
Spring (aka scurvy season) is a great time to learn more about
a wonderful weed ! The
dandelion , considered by many to be a scourge, a lawn-wrecker and a pest but others see it as an ingredient in
many tasty recipes
and as
medicine . posted by
vespabelle
at 11:53 AM PST
- 	 44 comments
Interchange reform is necessary and it is long overdue. Open Letter TO JPMorgan Chase CEO Jamie Dimon.
The Democrat from Springfield responds to
the Chase CEO's letter to shareholders . posted by
boo_radley
at 11:42 AM PST
- 	 39 comments
Pictures of Cats in the Sea Services
" Sailors and cats have a special relationship that dates back thousands of years. " The U.S. Naval Institute
posts pictures of sailors and their cats , with photos from the 1880:s through the 1950:s. posted by
gemmy
at 10:48 AM PST
- 	 53 comments
Don Leslie birthday
One hundred years ago
Don Leslie
was born. Leslie invented the
Leslie speaker
that made the Hammond organ famous.
Listen to
Svoogaloo
by Sven Hammond Soul and the
Organ grinder's swing
by Jimmy Smith and my favorite
Billy's Bag
by Billy Preston.
[ more inside ] posted by
Waslijn
at 10:01 AM PST
- 	 33 comments
Don't ask me what I want it for, if you don't want to pay some more
The
Yes
Men
pull one over on the AP,
by convincing them that GE was going to donate
their 3.2 billion dollar tax credit in response to public anger over the fact that they
pay no taxes . posted by
Jon_Evil
at 9:48 AM PST
- 	 66 comments
Finally, politicians who understand popular culture
Oregon lawmakers
Rickroll
the legislature posted by
Bulgaroktonos
at 9:41 AM PST
- 	 24 comments
Yellowstone is big. No, really. Big.
New electrical conductivity measurements show the subterranean extent of the Yellowstone supervolcano to be a lot larger than previously known. posted by
jjray
at 9:32 AM PST
- 	 40 comments
Girly Man Commercials
Two weeks ago, the " Stupid Man Commercials. Why? " post on MeFi front page drew a heap of interest. Today, courtesy of the
Leo Burnett ad agency , and on behalf of their client, Manwich, we present " Girly Men ." Six days after the start of the campaign,
the ads have been pulled . (Unlike Amalgamated's campaign for Mike's Hard Lemonade, who mocked girly-man- Joey-the-intern
for a whole year back in 2008.)
Should we be surprised that the Manwich campaign would come from an ad shop whose tagline reads: "Big ideas come out of Big Pencils"? posted by
wensink
at 9:07 AM PST
- 	 141 comments
Loaded
Law enforcement authorities are in awe of the new wave of
narco "supersubs"
that are being found in the jungles of Colombia.
[ more inside ] posted by
reenum
at 9:07 AM PST
- 	 60 comments
Grab your array neighbor and sort!
Like something out of Neal Stephenson's
Anathem :
Sorting Algorithms as Folk Dances posted by
odinsdream
at 8:27 AM PST
- 	 22 comments
Vicarious hirsutedness
Whiskerino
is no more,
Goatee Groundhog Day
has come and gone and
Moustache May
is still a few weeks off. Whose fecund, feral, facial hair can sustain us in the meantime? None other than
Brian Wilson, closing pitcher of the San Francisco Giants, and his virtual beard . Touch it! posted by
mostlymuppet
at 7:04 AM PST
- 	 24 comments
Been Caught Stealin'
The urge is mightier than the pen
for
Vaclav Klaus . Of course, it
goes viral , even though Chilean officials say it was
a gift . posted by
chavenet
at 6:45 AM PST
- 	 25 comments
Supreme Court: Suppressing fruit since 1920
Fruit of the poisonous tree
is a legal term used to describe illegally gained evidence. The logic of the terminology is that if the source of the evidence is tainted, then anything gained from it is as well.
For the uninitiated, such terms used as described make for
odd introductions to supreme court arguments (PDF warning)
[ more inside ] posted by
AndrewKemendo
at 5:16 AM PST
- 	 26 comments
A bleak day for NZ internet users
Just over a year ago New Zealand's parliament
debated, passed and then scrapped
a law which would in effect withdraw internet access from those accused of illegal filesharing. Today, the New Zealand government is using "urgency" (ostensibly called in order to pass Christchurch earthquake emergency legislation) to
pass a new version of that controversial law . posted by
chairish
at 4:09 AM PST
- 	 67 comments
Michael Jackson's "Dangerous" in
Chongqing, China
700 kids in rural Chongqing dance to Michael Jackson's "Dangerous" .
Direct link .
Photos .
Chongqing, China . posted by
nickyskye
at 2:19 AM PST
- 	 19 comments
April 12 Freelancer covering Tohoku Disaster(s) Covering Tohoku
The Foreign Correspondent's Club of Japan ( FCCJ ) has posted a special edition of its
No. 1 Shimbun
covering the Tohoku Earthquake:
FCCJ members, many of them freelancers, were the first on the scene after the quake and have led coverage since. Weeks after the global media pack left, they're still here.
There's articles by veteran Japan reporters such as
Charles Pomeroy
who recently retired to Otsuchi after covering Japan for 50 years, to newer stringers such as
Gavin Blair
who worked as a "fixer" for foreign prima-donna journos dashing in and out of the disaster zone. There is a photo by photographer
Rob Gilhooly
who recently made
a heartbreaking trip into the exclusion zone
near the plants. Although not included in No 1 Shimbun, freelancer
Yas Idei
provides a Japanese perspective (in English) about the multiple disasters.
Idei's piece about Rokkashomura
is pretty enlightening, frightening, and depressing. posted by
KokuRyu
at 11:18 PM PST
- 	 23 comments
"Just a free lunch that never ends."
Why is the Federal Reserve forking over $220 million in bailout money to the wives of two Morgan Stanley bigwigs?
The Real Housewives of Wall Street
( via )
[ more inside ] posted by
The Emperor of Ice Cream
at 9:54 PM PST
- 	 111 comments
Much like the political career David Byrne Takes On The Man.
Good ole Charlie [Crist], used Bryne's (Talking Heads) song,
Road to Nowhere , during Crist's failed run for Senator of FL in 2010, without permission, without licenses.
The lawsuit that was filed was settled this week, which culminated in Crist issuing a
YouTube apology .
Crist also told the Associated Press that Byrne "couldn't have been more of a gentlemen" when the two met to settle the case. posted by
edgeways
at 9:16 PM PST
- 	 54 comments
How to Get a Real Education, by Scott Adams How to Get a Real Education, by Scott Adams
posted by
shivohum
at 9:07 PM PST
- 	 617 comments
I need help with my garrys mod.
Garry Newman , the creator of the insanely popular
Garry's Mod , which is a
sandbox game
that uses
Valve's
Source
Engine , has come up with an
ingenious
way
to catch people who pirate the game. posted by
SpacemanStix
at 8:37 PM PST
- 	 39 comments
My cell phone connects me with my friends and also calculates logarithms
Are graphical calculators pointless?
Graphical calculators are required by many college-level math courses, but they don't perform as well as mobile phones.
Pedagogically, they may be less useful than a
slide rule .
[ more inside ] posted by
twoleftfeet
at 8:34 PM PST
- 	 68 comments
A nation of fickle fools We care about climate change, but we hate the idea of having to do anything about it.
Professor of Public Ethics at
CAPPE ,
Clive Hamilton
(also author of
Requiem for a Species
and
Affluenza ), tells it like it is on climate change policy in Australia. posted by
bystander
at 8:20 PM PST
- 	 125 comments
Square pizza slices have a permanent place in my heart
Little Village Elementary Academy on Chicago's West Side has
prohibited students from bringing packed lunches from home , unless they have a medical excuse. Despite
stricter nutritional standards
implemented by the Chicago Public Schools last year to
help curb childhood obesity , some parents are not happy. (Tangentially, I watched
this clip
about the school food in France and got sort of jealous.) posted by
bayani
at 8:02 PM PST
- 	 102 comments
Science museum adds to membership
`` Several people had pledged their penises over the years
— including an American, a Briton, and a German — but Arason's was the first to be successfully donated, Hjartarson said.''
[ more inside ] posted by
Blazecock Pileon
at 7:38 PM PST
- 	 40 comments
Music sounds better with you Tastebuds is a new dating site that matches users based on their favorite music.
posted by
Lovecraft In Brooklyn
at 6:36 PM PST
- 	 118 comments
IOU Blue The IOWEYOU project.
You can't go to a shop and buy these clothes. Because each textile is unique they have an
app
that allows you to trace your garment right back through the production process to the actual weaver that hand-wove the fabric. You can see some of the
delightful
people involved in the project at their
YouTube channel . posted by
unliteral
at 6:03 PM PST
- 	 18 comments
Huffin'n'puffin' for Arianna and nuthin' to show for it
Thank you for visiting
HuffingtonPostLawsuit.com . On
April 12, 2011
Plaintiff
Jonathan Tasini , individually and on behalf of all others similarly situated, filed a federal class action lawsuit against
The HuffingtonPost.com , Inc., AOL Inc., Arianna Huffington and Kenneth Lerer for unjust enrichment and deceptive business practices. For more information, please see
a copy of the complaint
or contact
Kurzon Strauss LLP . posted by
cenoxo
at 6:03 PM PST
- 	 85 comments
Soda > Slander & Lies
1980SLYT:
Kim Mitchell* - "Go For a Soda" (1984).
In whiche our protagonist experiences his favorite rock singer (1) step out of the television, (2) do a little dance on the table, and (3) join his band in the refrigerator.
All while singing a Hard Rock Anthem about the joys of S-O-D-A. [
* wiki
• via the voice of great antiquity's
great blog post about being a contestant on Jeopardy .
via jessamyn
] posted by
not_on_display
at 5:49 PM PST
- 	 43 comments
Enhance, Rotate, Zoom in. An amazing bit of photoshoppery
transforms an extreme oblique view of a poster into a straight on view. posted by
Mitheral
at 5:07 PM PST
- 	 71 comments
The Zippo Car
In 1947 Zippo founder George G. Blaisdell celebrated his lighter's success by commisioning the
Zippo Car .
[ more inside ] posted by
milestogo
at 4:49 PM PST
- 	 21 comments
We're going back... to the current immediate present. China bans time-travel movies.
[ via ] posted by
crossoverman
at 4:23 PM PST
- 	 62 comments
Comic Rock The Ten Best Musician/Comic Artist Friendships
posted by
Artw
at 4:08 PM PST
- 	 31 comments
A Journey's End
Following on the heels of NASA's
announcement
of the final resting places of the various space shuttles, NASA, in conjunction with William Shatner, released a final
video
commemorating the program. (SLYT) posted by
Heliochrome85
at 3:59 PM PST
- 	 25 comments
Guitar Spin Idiots Idiots Failing at the Guitar Spin Trick
posted by
Ardiril
at 3:50 PM PST
- 	 37 comments
Like a travel guide, but crime.
Crimemapping.com
is where you go to see
colorful US crime maps .
[ more inside ] posted by
lemuring
at 2:44 PM PST
- 	 26 comments
Under this mask, another mask I'm in training - don't kiss me
- Daniel Douglas aka Claude Courlis aka
Claude Cahun
was a French artist,
photographer
and self confessed
narcissist .
She began a long lasting relationship and collaboration with
her stepsister Suzanne Malherbe
aka Marcel Moore at an early age.
Cahun was imprisoned by the Nazis and condemmed to death but was released shortly before the war ended.
She left a diary ; and Jersey Heritage Trust
has more .
She was also
a writer .
A short video of some of her self portraits as
a slide show . posted by
adamvasco
at 1:53 PM PST
- 	 7 comments
"Do you know any gay people?" asked Sir Ian McKellen. "Well, you do now. I'm gay."
Stonewall
is a UK-based European charity founded as a response to the controversial
Section 28
(which prohibited local authorities and teachers from intentionally promoting homosexuality) that was enacted in the UK in 1988. In the decades since being founded, the charity has become well-known for lobbying for gay rights. In 2005, Stonewall started
Education for All , a campaign against homophobic bullying and for an inclusive learning environment for all. The charity has included support from famous people before, and now includes
Sir Ian McKellen
and others
going to secondary schools to talk with kids and teachers about homophobia . (via
TheophileEscargot
on
MetaChat ) posted by
filthy light thief
at 12:55 PM PST
- 	 27 comments
You Can Call Me Al. An Ode to Paul Simon's Graceland, now 25.
"Here is Simon proving that he could be divorced and soft in the middle and still make an album that put him back on the playing field, and as a center forward. This, too, is why I think the album has been such a mainstay of so many station wagons since the late 80s: It said to those rear ends planted in those drivers’ seats, “Our idols have aged and proven human. They have turned into yuppies like us who smoke weed only occasionally and in comfortable living rooms with Persian rugs and who have kids who play soccer, and that’s okay." Don't miss the covers and rare editions at the the end of the article. Unfortunately they miss
Tangoterje's amazing "Diamonds on the Soles of Her Shoes" dub edit . Obligatory,
the Zimbabwe concert . posted by
geoff.
at 12:39 PM PST
- 	 198 comments
Yes, That Can Be My Next Tweet Yes, That Can Be My Next Tweet
creates random Tweets for you based on your previous ones.
MarkovFilter in 140 characters. posted by
XQUZYPHYR
at 12:35 PM PST
- 	 178 comments
The State of White America
In a
lecture entitled
The State of White America
Charles Murray , a
W. H. Brady Scholar
of the
American Enterprise Institute
and co-author of the controversial
The Bell Curve , details the thesis of his upcoming book
Coming Apart :
Over the last half century, the United States has developed a new lower class and a new upper class that are different in kind from anything America has ever known. The second contention of the book is that the divergence of America into these separate classes, if it continues, will end what has made America
America .
[ more inside ] posted by
ob1quixote
at 12:04 PM PST
- 	 76 comments
"If only you knew the power of the Dark Side." "...perhaps she will."
[SLYT]
Sariah Gallego Joins the Dark Side. posted by
Fizz
at 11:16 AM PST
- 	 49 comments
Juju-enhanced Internet scamming. The Sakawa Boys: Inside the Bizarre Criminal World of Ghana’s Cyber-Juju Email Scam Gangs
is a short documentary about Sakawa, the Nigerian mix of African black magic and Internet scamming that has grown into its own cultural phenomenon, complete with clothing brands, music, and
"Nollywood" movies .
Previously , we have seen
I Go Chop Your Dollar , whose star was
subsequently arrested .
See also
this (PDF alert!)
academic paper on the subject posted by
Obscure Reference
at 11:12 AM PST
- 	 14 comments
Humble Bundle 3: Frozenbyte The Humble Frozenbyte Bundle.
It's back! The third Humble Bundle (previously:
1
2 ) includes
Trine ,
Shadowgrounds ,
Shadowgrounds: Survivor , and more, all from indie Finnish developer
Frozenbyte . Pay what you want and choose how to split the proceeds between the
EFF ,
Child's Play , Frozenbyte, and Humble Bundle Inc. posted by
kmz
at 11:11 AM PST
- 	 34 comments
The guy who says he owns 50% of Facebook produces E-Mails
Paul Ceglia has refiled his lawsuit against Zuckerburg and Facebook.
With a much larger law firm. And a lot more evidence.
Ceglia
has produced more than a dozen of what he says are emails between him and Mark Zuckerberg from July 2003 to July 2004, the year in which Facebook was created.
[ more inside ] posted by
jeanmari
at 11:02 AM PST
- 	 89 comments
The Washington Post's dependence on the government it covers
Put another way, the company that owns The Washington Post is almost entirely at the mercy of the Federal Government and the Obama administration -- the entities which its newspaper ostensibly checks and holds accountable. "By the end of 2010, more than 90 percent of revenue at Kaplan’s biggest division and nearly a third of The Post Co.’s revenue overall came from the U.S. government." The Post Co.'s reliance on the Federal Government extends beyond the source of its revenue; because the industry is so heavily regulated, any animosity from the Government could single-handedly doom the Post Co.'s business...
--
Glenn Greenwald examines WaPo's entanglement with for-profit education posted by
hippybear
at 10:38 AM PST
- 	 27 comments
Susan Orlean
Susan Orlean's short essays for The New Yorker have an air of effortlessness to them, as if they were something she just tossed off while taking a break from her more important subjects, but their brevity reveals a true mastery of form, and at their best, they are brimful of surprisingly elegant sentences, self-deprecating wit and a kind of warmly feminine, disarmingly sly charm:
On Adopting
a Stray Cat
::
The Difficulties
of E-mail
::
The Joys of Snooping
::
Books That
Changed Her World
::
World War I
::
Heat Wave
::
Fear of Flying
::
Chickens posted by
puny human
at 10:09 AM PST
- 	 21 comments
Alcohol Helps the Brain Remember, Says New Study
According to
Science Daily
a
New Study
(done on mice) found drinking alcohol primes certain areas of our brain to learn and remember better. When we drink alcohol our subconscious is learning to consume more. But it doesn't stop there. We become more receptive to forming subsconscious memories and habits with respect to food, music, even people and social situations.
[ more inside ] posted by
Blake
at 8:25 AM PST
- 	 41 comments
Inflammation theory of Depression
Have you been keeping up with research on the inflammation theory of depression and mental illness? If you'd like to explore the pathology if inflammatory cytokines in the development of depression,
this paper breaks it down .
[ more inside ] posted by
xarnop
at 8:08 AM PST
- 	 51 comments
Maybe nuclear power is your problem, too? The German weekly newspaper Die Zeit
shows Americans (and a few Canadians) what a Fukushima-sized evacuation zone might mean to them. posted by
rhombus
at 6:14 AM PST
- 	 197 comments
Airline goes out of its way to save sight of a passenger
Imagine this: you live in a fairly remote place and need emergency eye surgery to save your sight that very same day. you get onto a plane but mid-trip
your flight gets cancelled
because of a technical problem. flying with most airlines we know would mean you'd miss your surgery and be in a pretty tough spot.
but not when you're flying SAS. instead of leaving you stranded with a voucher, the airline found a replacement aircraft at another airport,
flew it over to the passenger and got her to her surgery on time
( original article ). there is a lot going wrong in the airline industry these days but in my book that's pretty awesome. posted by
krautland
at 2:29 AM PST
- 	 76 comments
April 11 Recording engineer Roger Nichols has died
The veteran recording engineer and seven-time grammy winner
Roger Nichols
lost his battle with pancreatic cancer and
passed away April 9th at age 66 . Though not a household name, you've undoubtedly heard at least one album he did the sound for. Some of the artists he engineered recordings for were Stevie Wonder, Bela Fleck & the Flecktones, Frank Zappa, Donald Fagen, John Denver, the Beach Boys, Crosby Stills & Nash, Al Di Meola, Roy Orbison, Andy Laverne, Plácido Domingo, Gloria Estefan, Diana Ross, Rickie Lee Jones, Kenny Loggins, Mark Knopfler, Michael McDonald, and Toots Thielemans, among others. He also invented the first functional drum sampling machine
WENDL
(.pdf file), first used on the 1979 "Gaucho" album.
He is likely best known for the amazing pristine sound he achieved for every album done by Mssrs. Walter Becker and Donald Fagen, aka
Steely Dan.
He was a giant in his field,
a real innovator,
and it is a sad loss for the industry. posted by
Seekerofsplendor
at 10:45 PM PST
- 	 28 comments
Confidential! Derailing a train isn't as easy as you might think.
[1944] (Declassified WW2
OSS
training video.)
[ more inside ] posted by
crunchland
at 9:49 PM PST
- 	 55 comments
It's not the spectacles and pagaentry.....
The mayor of Washington DC has been arrested , along with 6 of the 12 members of its city council, during a protest today near a US Senate office building, objecting to the city's use as a bargaining chip while negotiating the
7th Continuing Resolution
to avoid a government shutdown last Friday.
The bill prohibits the District of Columbia from locally funding abortion services, and imposes a locally-unpopular school voucher program.
Had the government shutdown taken place, the DC government would have also had to suspend most of its operations including
trash pickup .
For those of you keeping track, Vince Gray is the 3rd (of 6) DC mayor to be arrested while in office.
[ more inside ] posted by
schmod
at 6:50 PM PST
- 	 93 comments
It's Bond, James Bond - I'm here for my doctor's appointment! For most of his 81 years, Sir Roger Moore has played invincible leading men.
"But behind the scenes he has cheerfully hidden a list of real (and imagined) ailments.You are late,’ says Sir Roger Moore in a deep growl. I apologise. I had thought the interview was at nine o’clock. ‘I am just off to the funeral parlour,’ he continues."
[ more inside ] posted by
VikingSword
at 5:33 PM PST
- 	 94 comments
Oh Beautiful, for Super Skies
With Marvel Comics hinting that
Black Panther
will become
"American Panther" , a typical
storm
of
controversy
and
speculation
has occurred over the supposed Americanization of an African character. The artists over at
The Temple of Cartoon Mojo
on the other hand, wondered what would happen if MORE
iconic characters were made patriotic . The results range from the
silly , to the
utterly awesome . posted by
happyroach
at 5:29 PM PST
- 	 79 comments
What Yuri Gagarin Saw First Orbit.
"On 12th April 2011 it will be
50 years to the day
since
Yuri Gagarin
climbed into his space ship and was launched into space. It took him just 108 minutes to orbit Earth and he returned as the World's very first space man. To mark this historic flight we have teamed up with the astronauts onboard the International Space Station to
film a new view of what Yuri would have seen
as he travelled around the planet. Weaving these new views together with historic voice recordings from Yuri's flight and an original score by composer Philip Sheppard, we have created
a spellbinding film to share with people around the World
on this historic anniversary."
[ more inside ] posted by
homunculus
at 5:07 PM PST
- 	 32 comments
Everything's made up, and the points don't matter
Years after its final broadcast, the award-winning, pond-hopping, cult comedy hit
Whose Line is it Anyway?
is returning to television! Sort of! Tonight in just a few minutes,
Drew Carey's Improv-A-Ganza
( promo ,
sample segment ) makes its debut on GSN, reuniting Carey with popular "Whosers" Ryan Stiles, Colin Mochrie, Greg Proops, Brad Sherwood, Wayne Brady, and
many more . Though the show will air every weekday, you don't have to wait around for new episodes to get your improv fix -- in spite of the lack of DVD box sets, there's a veritable treasure trove of past content available free from multiple online sources, including
the complete run of the American
Whose Line
on both YouTube
and
fansite WatchWLIIA
along with
every episode of the original UK run from Channel4's official YouTube channel
and
their streaming video site 4oD . Too much content? Look inside for selections of the show's most hilarious moments as sampled from
the show's burgeoning TVTropes entry . See also:
Fan guide
-
American episode guide
( UK version ) -
List of game types
[ more inside ] posted by
Rhaomi
at 5:00 PM PST
- 	 49 comments
If Asians in Asia bring about apocalypse or head up the new world order, Asian Americans will suffer the worst. The Yellow Plague: Asians and Asian Americans in Post-Apocalyptic and Zombie Fictions
posted by
Lovecraft In Brooklyn
at 4:43 PM PST
- 	 35 comments
Waiting For Manny
The recently retired Manny Ramirez was one of the most inscrutable players in recent history. Ben McGrath of the New Yorker attempted to figure out Ramirez's motivations in
this 2007 piece . posted by
reenum
at 4:34 PM PST
- 	 32 comments
Free Darko goes dark.
Free Darko calls it quits . Contributors to the irreverent basketball writing site that Brian Philips describes as "a vintage record shop that radiation turned into a grad student" talk about what Free Darko meant to them. Also,
an interview
with Free Darko writer and illustrator Bethlehem Shoals and Jacob Weinstein. posted by
AceRock
at 4:24 PM PST
- 	 19 comments
Head Tracking for iPad: Glasses-Free 3D Display Head Tracking for iPad: Glasses-Free 3D Display
- Jeremie Francone and Laurence Nigay of the
Grenoble Informatics Laboratory
track the user's head using an iPad's front facing camera, using the positional data to create the impression of depth without the use of specialized glasses
[ more inside ] posted by
Blazecock Pileon
at 4:22 PM PST
- 	 24 comments
Finger painting Adobe announces Photoshop Touch SDK plus three Photoshop iPad apps
posted by
Artw
at 3:45 PM PST
- 	 30 comments
| | | | | |
/ /
R
| |
P
\ \
for the recently departed
John McCracken
(1934 – 2011), a West Coast artist who brought a
New Age openness
to
Minimalist sculpture , along with a vocabulary of
bright ,
sleek slabs ,
blocks
and
columns
that balanced teasingly between
painting and sculpture .
[ more inside ] posted by
wcfields
at 3:43 PM PST
- 	 5 comments
Happy surprise at 40000 feet
Photographer Nate Bolt, on a overnight San Francisco to Paris flight, set up a time lapse camera to record the journey (with permission), and found midflight that he was shooting
an aurora borealis .
[ more inside ] posted by
ZeusHumms
at 3:32 PM PST
- 	 16 comments
Maps Of U.S. Population Change, 2000-2010 The Death of Downtown Chicago and 20 More Maps Of U.S. Population Change, 2000-2010
[ more inside ] posted by
T.D. Strange
at 2:52 PM PST
- 	 42 comments
vintage Japan and Hong Kong
Old Hong Kong/Macau clips 1949-1989
by Michael Rogge, now 81, who was stationed in Hong Kong and Japan. He documented his life in photos and 16mm film, clips on YT |
his YouTube channel
|
Old Japan in 1870 Engravings .
Taken from a Dutch magazine 'De aarde en haar volken' of 1875. Engravings done by French artists.
|
Old JAPAN in 1869 in engravings
French engravings, part of a travelogue, picture a weird Japan. Pictures appeared in Dutch magazine 'De Aarde en haar Volken' of 1869 and were engraved by French artists .
[ more inside ] posted by
nickyskye
at 2:10 PM PST
- 	 5 comments
I shall call it...
NAWNCO.
A logic puzzle called
NAWNCO . posted by
lemuring
at 1:39 PM PST
- 	 63 comments
$100,000 on a gazebo an hour's drive away. "The Harper government misinformed Parliament
to win approval for a $50-million G8 fund that lavished money on
dubious projects
in a Conservative riding, the
auditor general
has concluded." Or
maybe
not
- the final report won't be released until Parliament is sitting again. Or, maybe not -
John Baird
says the
Conservative party would agree to a release of the final report . posted by
joannemerriam
at 12:59 PM PST
- 	 96 comments
A critical moment in statistics
Statistical hypothesis testing
with a
p-value
of less than 0.05 is often used as a gold standard in science, and is required by peer reviewers and journals when stating results. Some statisticians argue that this indicates a
cult of significance testing
using a
frequentist
statistical framework that is
counterintuitive and misunderstood
by many scientists. Biostatisticians have
argued
that the (over)use of p-vaues come from "the mistaken idea that a single number can capture both the long-run outcomes of an experiment and the evidential meaning of a single result" and identify
several other problems with significance testing .
XKCD demonstrates
how misunderstandings of the nature of the p-value, failure to adjust for
multiple comparisons , and the
file drawer problem
result in likely spurious conclusions being published in the scientific literature and then being distorted further in the popular press.
You can simulate a similar situation yourself.
John Ioannidis uses problems with significance testing and other statistical concerns to argue, controversially, that " most published research findings are false ." Will the use of
Bayes factors
replace classical hypothesis testing and p-values? Will something else? posted by
grouse
at 12:56 PM PST
- 	 45 comments
The US Pot describes the Chinese Kettle, and the Kettle replies in kind
Recently, Secretary of State Hilary Clinton released the
35th annual Country Reports on Human Rights Practices , covering the
legal status of human rights in more than 190 countries and territories around the world . This year,
Clinton had tough words for China , amid
crackdowns on dissent . In response,
China provides a profile of the US , pointing out
actions related to Wikileaks, civilian casualties in Iraq and Afghanistan, and the prisoner abuse scandals related to counterterrorism initiatives .
[ more inside ] posted by
filthy light thief
at 12:46 PM PST
- 	 48 comments
Make Model, Make Model Photos of Auto Buds.
"Auto Buds are two cars of the same make, model, color, or as identical as possible, that are parked right next to each other or in close proximity." posted by
geoff.
at 12:18 PM PST
- 	 73 comments
Does what it says on the tin An exegesis of sexual subtext in "Predator"
[ more inside ] posted by
jtron
at 11:45 AM PST
- 	 94 comments
The Periodic Table of Storytelling. The Periodic Table of Storytelling.
via posted by
Rumple
at 11:23 AM PST
- 	 32 comments
"This house believes that the world would be better off without nuclear power."
The Economist is holding an
online debate on nuclear power .
These debates provide a great opportunity to get an overview of the different perspectives on an issue. If f you are so inclined, you can share your own views on the topic too.
Today's discussions focus on a contribution by Amory Lovins . posted by
philipy
at 11:08 AM PST
- 	 68 comments
Your wise men don't know how it feels
Thick As A Brick ( Google Video ,
YouTube ) is Jethro Tull's 1972 album/song of epic proportions.
The
lyrics
are lengthy and confusing.
But they are not
incompre hensible !
You can
learn to play
the whole thing .
It also had
very extensive packaging . [presented here in nice clickable-article format] posted by
hippybear
at 10:27 AM PST
- 	 56 comments
Tama River Tama River
Film: Tama River by Anders Edström & Karen Langley.
Music: Yoko Ono, Let’s Go On Flying.
Model: Ai Tominaga posted by
puny human
at 9:10 AM PST
- 	 8 comments
So Easy, Even Kirk Could Do It
George Takei and Patty Duke
filmed
a
series
of
Star
Trek
themed
spots
promoting
the Social Security Administration's website. posted by
ChurchHatesTucker
at 7:50 AM PST
- 	 43 comments
A girl and her room. A girl and her room.
Photographer Rania Matar has taken dozens of pictures of teenage girls in their bedrooms, in both the US and the Middle East. ( Slightly NSFW ) ( via ) posted by
shakespeherian
at 7:48 AM PST
- 	 103 comments
Are you stronger than a 5th grader?
9-year-old Naomi Kutin squats 187 at a bodyweight of 88 lbs.
This breaks the 100% Raw record for the 97 lb class, held for a number of years by a woman in her late 20's.
[ more inside ] posted by
Anatoly Pisarenko
at 7:42 AM PST
- 	 60 comments
A Huge, Incredible Scam
The reality of For Profit Educatation in Infographic form.
[ more inside ] posted by
The Whelk
at 7:41 AM PST
- 	 60 comments
Watson has begun selecting targets
Google launches
a trivia game
where Googling is
not cheating, but encouraged posted by
ConstantineXVI
at 6:49 AM PST
- 	 25 comments
Some disassembly required
After completing it's
final mission
in March, Space Shuttle Discovery has been returned to the Kennedy Space Center's Orbiter Processing Facility, where it is being dissembled for cleaning and decommissioning. Spaceflight Now has
pictures of the process . posted by
helloknitty
at 6:34 AM PST
- 	 49 comments
Hello everybody out there using minix
I'm doing a (free) operating system (just a hobby, won't be big and professional like gnu) for 386(486) AT clones.
With these words, an unknown hacker named Linus Torvalds released Linux into the world,
20 years ago this year .
[ more inside ] posted by
DU
at 5:11 AM PST
- 	 237 comments
Conflict of interest?
What?
Swedish "Pirate" MEP
Christian Engström
has announced that today or tomorrow
Europe will be voting on extending copyrights for recorded music from 50 years to 95 years .
Recently, Engström and Dutch liberal party D66 MEP Marietje Schaake have submitted a
formal question
to the European Commission on the conflict of interest arising from
their appointment of Maria Martin-Prat .
Martin-Prat has
spent years directing 'global legal policy' for IFPI , the global recording industry's London-based trade group, but will now be overseeing
IPRED
and the ongoing
ACTA
proposals ( prev i ously ).
On the other side of the pond, Judge Beryl Howell has
overturned restrictions established by lower courts on the issuing mass subpoenas to ISPs
during
her first week on the U.S. D.C. District Court
( previously ,
known
results ).
Beryl Howell was recently employed as an RIAA lobbyist and Executive Managing Director and General Counsel at the pirate chasing company Stroz Friedberg. posted by
jeffburdges
at 3:17 AM PST
- 	 211 comments
Full veil banned for Muslim women in France. A law has come into force in France which makes it an offence for a Muslim woman to conceal her face behind a veil when in public.
[ more inside ] posted by
dubold
at 2:51 AM PST
- 	 444 comments
April 10 Villians spotted at Melbourne University!
The annual
Melbourne University Puzzle Hunt
is back - and this time they need your help fending off villians with your puzzle-solving abilities. Anyone from anywhere in the world can compete in teams of 1 to 10 people (or you can
see the puzzles for yourself
and play at home).
[ more inside ] posted by
divabat
at 10:42 PM PST
- 	 7 comments
A Story of Love, War and Science "This is the story of Walter and Ina…"
"It begins before they met, when he was taking aerial photographs of occupied France from a Sopwith A2, and she was looking for work in rural Texas and worrying about the boys “over there.” They continued on separate paths until 1924." I'm a sucker for a good love story, and one that elicits nostalgia through historical documents is even better. Here is one such story. Although I have only just now begun to read the correspondence myself, I immediately thought that MeFi was a good place to share it. The curator of these letters is
Dr. Alan Dove , a
virologist and podcaster . Walter and Ina were his grandparents. posted by
Moody834
at 7:37 PM PST
- 	 4 comments
Not for old fogies.
“The flapper movement is not a craze, but something that will stay,” the author maintained. “Many of the
phrases
now employed by members of this order will eventually find a way into common usage and be accepted as good English.”
[ more inside ] posted by
timory
at 6:05 PM PST
- 	 83 comments
"I don't know if I should be photographing that or not" On filming desperately graphic war footage.
Aussie photojournalist was 5 metres away when a 12 year old suicide bomber detonated a bomb. posted by
malibustacey9999
at 5:39 PM PST
- 	 89 comments
It's time to share memories. WWII German soldiers speak about their experiences.
'The myth that the Nazi-era German armed forces, the Wehrmacht, was not involved in war crimes persisted for decades after the war. Now two German researchers have destroyed it once and for all. Newly published conversations between German prisoners of war, secretly recorded by the Allies, reveal horrifying details of violence against civilians, rape and genocide.''What already seems hardly feasible for current military operations like the war in Afghanistan is nearly impossible when it comes to an event that happened so long ago as World War II. Nevertheless, two German historians have managed to produce precisely such a documentary of perceptions of the war using live historical recordings.'
[ more inside ] posted by
VikingSword
at 5:25 PM PST
- 	 41 comments
"They asked us who we were, and we told them we were civilians from Kijran district." A Tragedy of Errors.
On Feb. 21, 2010, a convoy of vehicles carrying civilians headed down a mountain in central Afghanistan and American eyes in the sky were watching. "The Americans were using some of the most
sophisticated tools
in the history of war, technological marvels of surveillance and intelligence gathering that allowed them to see into once-inaccessible corners of the battlefield. But the high-tech wizardry would
fail
in its most elemental purpose: to tell the difference between friend and foe."
FOIA -obtained
transcripts
of US cockpit and radio conversations and
an interactive feature
provide a more in-depth understanding of what happened. posted by
zarq
at 4:23 PM PST
- 	 59 comments
tl;dr
Jörg Piringer
presents
all displayable characters in the unicode range 0 - 65536
(49571 characters). one character per frame. posted by
juv3nal
at 3:43 PM PST
- 	 82 comments
As Michael Cera said in that movie about Twitter, “We don’t even know what this is yet.”
Have you ever gotten lost in the Myst-inspired architecture of
Anthology Film Archives ’ website, or struggled awkwardly with the Chinese puzzle box-construction of
BAMcinematek ’s calendars? Have you ever circled the block at Lincoln Plaza in search of the secret entrance to the fabled
Walter Reade Theater ? (Hint: look behind the waterfall.) Have you found yourself asking time and again, “What the fuck
is
Union Docs ?”
The brainchild of critic
Paul
Brunick ,
Alt Screen
is a new site billed as "a comprehensive digital resource covering film exhibitions and related special events in the New York City area." The contributing editors include blogger
Jim Emerson ,
Ignatiy Vishnevetsky
[ previously ] and
Nathan Lee
(apparently
coming out of retirement ). posted by
alexoscar
at 3:30 PM PST
- 	 8 comments
Picma Squared Picma Squared
(flash, game) "You got your Picross in my Minesweeper!" "You got your Minesweeper in my Picross!"
[ more inside ] posted by
Ufez Jones
at 3:29 PM PST
- 	 8 comments
"Art is an invention of aesthetics, which in turn is an invention of philosophers.... What we call art is a game." What If Your Favorite Album Was a Book?
Rock classics from from Arcade Fire to Zeppelin, reimagined as book covers.
[ more inside ] posted by
Fizz
at 3:13 PM PST
- 	 33 comments
Luis Posada Carilles Acquitted Luis Posada Carilles Acquitted.
[ more inside ] posted by
lalochezia
at 2:55 PM PST
- 	 8 comments
Trees and Young Trees of different bones
A lion taxidermied by a taxidermist who had never seen a lion.
- more info
here
in Swedish ( translation ).
More daft taxidermy . posted by
Artw
at 2:02 PM PST
- 	 47 comments
It even comes with an extra long twisty tie! Let's keep it safe.
Remember, only you can prevent unboxing videos.
(SLYT) posted by
yellowbinder
at 1:07 PM PST
- 	 78 comments
Are We There Yet? Zerosomethings are adorable: angst-free, energetic, usually related to me. They will grab onto one my legs to get a free ride, and I will always give it to them.
A precocious twentysomething's artful musings on the series of life-stages most of us have passed, are passing, or will pass through in the course of ordinary survival.
Reading
"-Somethings"
I am reminded of Gail Sheehy's classic
Passages: Predictable Crises of Adult Life
(read a portion
here ), a thought-provoking and somewhat more academic investigation of how we change over time. posted by
fernabelle
at 12:47 PM PST
- 	 30 comments
From #elxn40 to #elxn41: Mapping Canada's last most recent federal election
Cédric Sam
has
released an updated version of his 2008 Google Maps and Google Earth layers
showing Canada's 2008 federal election data in
every riding across the country , accessible down to the polling district level.
A great GIS data
visualization tool for understanding how your riding or district may vote
on May 2 . posted by
HLD
at 12:10 PM PST
- 	 5 comments
Putzmeister pumps & Fukushima exclusion-zone road trip
Putzmeister pumps
Fukushima up .
[ more inside ] posted by
stbalbach
at 11:54 AM PST
- 	 15 comments
What Is to Be Done? What Is to Be Done?
Tim Kreider of
The Pain
muses about the future of cartooning as a payable profession posted by
Blazecock Pileon
at 11:30 AM PST
- 	 41 comments
My name is Modus Tollens, and I help you spot cheaters. Subjects don't need formal logic training. They don't need math or philosophy.
Fewer than 10 percent of the participants got it right when
Peter Cathcart Wason
performed his 1966 study, the
Wason Selection Task . But according to an essay by Bruce Schneier referencing the work of evolutionary psychologists Leda Cosmides and John Tooby, that number improves, by 65 to 80 percent "...when the rule has to do with cheating and privilege." posted by
fartknocker
at 9:40 AM PST
- 	 35 comments
Evan Brewer and two basses.
Sunday Morning Music (at least in PST): Evan Brewer plays a melancholy little piece on
two six-string basses
(SLYT). posted by
Existential Dread
at 9:30 AM PST
- 	 1 comment
Schwinn Sting-ray
The Classic
Schwinn Sting-ray :
A Lucky Boy's
First Fast
Wheels posted by
puny human
at 8:54 AM PST
- 	 40 comments
"It's ironic that Ikea looks on the U.S. and Danville the way that most people in the U.S. look at Mexico."
Ikea's U.S. factory churns out unhappy workers . A union-organizing battle hangs over the Ikea plant in Virginia. Workers complain of eliminated raises, a frenzied pace, mandatory overtime and racial discrimination. posted by
hippybear
at 8:27 AM PST
- 	 106 comments
The Well of Death
Ladies and Gentlemen, presenting
Maut ka Kuan , a.k.a.
Death Pit
or
Well of Death , a inverted cone of wooden planks assembled for the express purpose of driving
motorcycles and
cars
in circles at speeds that make them
stick
to the
walls . The drivers can
collect a little cash
along the way. posted by
bwg
at 6:30 AM PST
- 	 42 comments
What's the continent-wide frequency, phase angle and voltage, Kenneth?
FNET
is a low-cost, GPS-synchronized wide-area power system frequency measurement network. Highly accurate Frequency Disturbance Recorders (FDRs) [...]
measure the frequency, phase angle, and voltage of the power signal
found at ordinary 120-V electrical outlets.
Animated map . [ via ] posted by
slater
at 4:34 AM PST
- 	 26 comments
Statue of an angel with mobile phone and laptop on 16th century cathedral A statue of an angel holding a mobile phone
has been
unveiled at St John’s Cathedral
in the southern Dutch city of 's-Hertogenbosch.
The cathedral features a lot of statues. Among them
gargoyle
like
statuettes on the flying buttresses .
[ more inside ] posted by
joost de vries
at 1:54 AM PST
- 	 73 comments
April 9 She made pictures of haunting loveliness.
19 year-old
Virginia Frances Sterrett
was commissioned by the Penn Publishing Company to illustrate
Old French Fairy Tales
by Comtesse de Segur (1920). Sterrett was already ill with tuberculosis, the disease that would end her life at age 30.
[ more inside ] posted by
nev
at 8:05 PM PST
- 	 26 comments
An Extended Saturday Matinee with Lon Chaney, Bela Lugosi, and Boris Karloff
YouTube user
deb4tlj
has uploaded
seven out-of-print titles
to YouTube: three silent films starring Lon Chaney --
The Penalty
( 1920 ),
The Unknown
( 1927 ), and
Laugh, Clown, Laugh
( 1928 );
two films starring Bela Lugosi --
Island of Lost Souls
( 1932 ) and
Murders in the Rue Morgue
( 1932 ); and two films starring Boris Karloff --
The Ghoul
( 1933 ), and
The Walking Dead
( 1936 ). [Notes inside]
[ more inside ] posted by
filthy light thief
at 7:08 PM PST
- 	 15 comments
Chained to their desks
Indian prison authorities in Hyderabad have
opened up a call centre inside the jail
with hopes of servicing customers from the UK. posted by
reenum
at 6:57 PM PST
- 	 43 comments
The man who carries a cat by the tail learns something that can be learned in no other way.
- Mark Twain Writers and Kitties
That's pretty much it. Authors and their cats. My favorite is
Mark Twain . posted by
desjardins
at 6:27 PM PST
- 	 51 comments
So Long and Thanks For All The Tunafish! Domestic Cat and Captive Dolphin make nice [ SLYT ]
posted by
humannaire
at 6:12 PM PST
- 	 45 comments
No Mo-99 A Political Meltdown:
For decades, Canada has been a world leader in the production of medical isotopes. So why did the government announce that it was dumping the entire program?
(alt) posted by
Orange Pamplemousse
at 5:06 PM PST
- 	 22 comments
Show's over, folks.
75 Abandoned Theaters From Around The US posted by
flapjax at midnite
at 5:02 PM PST
- 	 55 comments
The Civil War Journal of Nehemiah Wallington The Civil War Journal of Nehemiah Wallington
, digitized by the John Rylands Library, is one of the surviving diaries kept by this seventeenth-century Puritan.
Although Wallington recorded a number of key events, like the execution of
Archbishop Laud , the diary has garnered most attention for its report of the
Chelmsford witch trials , overseen by
Witchfinder General
Matthew Hopkins
(enter "witchcraft" into the search box to see Wallington's account).
For more of the intellectual context for early modern witch-hunting in the British Isles, see the
Witches in Early Modern England
and
Survey of Scottish Witchcraft
databases, as well as the handy collection of primary texts in Cornell's
Witchcraft Collection . posted by
thomas j wise
at 4:50 PM PST
- 	 13 comments
Uh, can I go to the office? Please?
Double suspension action!
Teen suspended for outing pornstar office assistant, and
a cop wants in
on the action too . All links (here at least) SFW. posted by
kneecapped
at 3:36 PM PST
- 	 71 comments
WINNERS DON'T IGNORE SAFEWORDS -- Wm. Sessions, Director, FBI.
Friday
Saturday Flash Fun:
Lesbian Spider Queens of Mars , by
Auntie Pixelante . posted by
egypturnash
at 1:57 PM PST
- 	 9 comments
Somewhere on the spectrum between disturbing and cute
A
video
has been making the rounds of twin babies having a little conversation.
Patton Oswalt and Michael Chiklis recreate the scene (mostly) detail for detail. posted by
codacorolla
at 1:12 PM PST
- 	 50 comments
master of information The New Biology
- Eric Schadt's quest to upend molecular biology and open source it. ( via ) posted by
kliuless
at 11:00 AM PST
- 	 35 comments
Amo Amas Amat Harvard's 1869 Entrance Exam
(PDF - NYT) posted by
The Whelk
at 9:40 AM PST
- 	 85 comments
Mad as Hell
I'll never forget the day that I realized that over half of the movies I truly loved were all directed by one guy. To name just a few of his brilliant films:
12 Angry Men ,
Anderson Tapes ,
Dog Day Afternoon
(NSFW),
Serpico
and of course, the grand-daddy of conspiracy love stories
Network .
Sidney Lumet .
RIP
( prev ) posted by
victors
at 9:35 AM PST
- 	 87 comments
Ah, a Lego animation about people. Ah, or Ahhhhh,
a minimalist Lego animation about people(?). posted by
Kaatridge
at 9:26 AM PST
- 	 7 comments
Chicks With Steve Buscemi's Eyes. Chicks With Steve Buscemi's Eyes.
Surprisingly horrifying. posted by
saladin
at 9:16 AM PST
- 	 77 comments
If you build it they will .....er take photos
Man builds large format camera out of
lego , that is all. posted by
sgt.serenity
at 4:42 AM PST
- 	 17 comments
Recent research related to children
Recent research on children. (1) Brothers and sisters who argue a lot can improve their language, social skills and outcomes:
Guardian article ;
paper on part of the research
(pdf). (2) First findings from
Understanding Society . Conclusions include: the unhappiness of children’s mothers with their partners affect children’s happiness, but this is not the case if children’s fathers are unhappy in their relationships; having older brothers or sisters doesn’t appear to affect children’s happiness, but having younger brothers or sisters is associated with less happiness; not living with both natural parents has a greater negative impact on a young person’s life satisfaction than their material situation. (3) A longitudinal study on people now in their forties has found that for these people reading is linked to career success, though not necessarily to better pay, whilst playing computer games and doing no other activities was associated with less likelihood of going to university. In particular, those who owned a ZX Spectrum or Commodore C64 were less likely to go to university.
thinq interview with researcher .
Guardian article .
Telegraph article . (4) Poll about children’s attitudes to losing in sport.
Press release .
Data from children’s survey .
Data from parents’ survey . (All three are PDFs.) posted by
paduasoy
at 3:52 AM PST
- 	 30 comments
Translation: It tastes like crap
Freezerburns , the video channel dedicated to reviewing frozen food,
samples frozen treats for dogs and cats. posted by
mippy
at 3:47 AM PST
- 	 14 comments
I'm not worrying about whether you reject Cotton Mather's accretions on the Mosaic Law, but whether you reject the Mosaic Law.
William F. Buckley meets Hugh Hefner .
A philosophical debate. posted by
twoleftfeet
at 3:22 AM PST
- 	 24 comments
The Ward
The Ward
( Part 1
-
Part 2
-
Part 3 ) is a silly little Lovecraftian sitcom from the folks who bring us the H.P. Lovecraft Literary Podcast. (previously:
1 ,
2 ,
3 ,
4 )
The guys Lackey and Fifer are also writing a graphic horror novel set in the Jazz Age,
Deadbeats . posted by
JHarris
at 1:46 AM PST
- 	 11 comments
Fame
"But when Britney [Spears] got healthy, Jamie’s lawyers actually pushed for greater authority and, on October 28th of 2008, Jamie secured a permanent conservatorship.
PERMANENT. HE OWNS HER FOREVER. " posted by
dirigibleman
at 12:49 AM PST
- 	 100 comments
April 8 Four billion years ago a star left its legacy as it met its physically inevitable demise
A gamma ray burst nicknamed GRB 110328A (i.e. detected 3/28/2011) appears to be the
legacy of a star being torn apart by a supermassive black hole, leaving a peak brightness one trillion times the sun's brightness as it met its ancient inevitable end . posted by
jjray
at 8:10 PM PST
- 	 51 comments
Werner Herzog and Cormac McCarthy
On NPR Science Friday
(1-hour audio), Werner Herzog and Cormac McCarthy discuss science, art and the abyss of humanity. posted by
stbalbach
at 7:55 PM PST
- 	 34 comments
Commodore Returns!!!
Anybody want to buy a brand new C-64 ? How about a
VIC Pro ? An
Amiga 1000 ?
Commodore USA
has risen from the grave.
[ more inside ] posted by
Chocolate Pickle
at 5:31 PM PST
- 	 72 comments
Namazu-e: Earthquake catfish prints
"In November 1855, the Great Ansei Earthquake struck the city of Edo (now Tokyo), claiming 7,000 lives and inflicting widespread damage. Within days, a new type of
color woodblock print known as namazu-e (lit. "catfish pictures")
became popular among the residents of the shaken city. These prints featured depictions of mythical giant catfish (namazu) who, according to popular legend, caused earthquakes by thrashing about in their underground lairs. In addition to providing humor and social commentary, many prints claimed to offer protection from future earthquakes." posted by
madamjujujive
at 5:19 PM PST
- 	 19 comments
Whenever you feel unhappy / all you have to do is call me.
Too much bad news and worry lately? Maybe a quick dose of the jubilant new song
"Sydney (I'll Come Running)" by Brett Dennen
will help.
[ more inside ] posted by
jbickers
at 4:49 PM PST
- 	 20 comments
"I now support full marriage equality."
Louis Marinelli, activist for the
National Organization for Marriage
and founder of their
2010 "Summer of Marriage" bus tour , has announced today that
he now supports full marriage equality .
Gay rights blog Good As You has a
detailed rundown of the story , including a spotlight on
NOM's immediate efforts to discredit Marinelli's involvement in their organization .
posted by
palomar
at 4:08 PM PST
- 	 80 comments
So funny I forgot to pay
The Village Voice released its Comics Issue on April 6. Its editorial " If Cartoons Are So Big, Why Don't They Pay? " focused on the financial straits many influential and popular cartoonists find themselves in even in the midst of wide-spread popularity and new respect. Although interesting in itself, the editorial created a splash in
comics
communities
for a different reason. Its decision to not pay the artists whose work was featured in that issue. The Voice had intended to offer only attribution, but no money. It has since
recanted . posted by
gilrain
at 3:43 PM PST
- 	 30 comments
'A Thousand Pictures Fill My Head'
Featuring 2052 performers from 58 countries,
I give you Eric Whitacre's Virtual Choir 2.0 performing
Sleep.
[SLYT] posted by
Lutoslawski
at 2:25 PM PST
- 	 34 comments
Progesterone Gel Helps Prevent Preemies
One in every 8 babies born in the US is
premature . A new
study
(pdf/ via )
published online Wednesday in
Ultrasound in Obstetrics and Gynecology
indicates that vaginal progesterone gel can help women who are pregnant for the first time and at risk of premature birth
extend their pregnancies, reduce potential complications and boost the health of their newborns .
[ more inside ] posted by
zarq
at 2:12 PM PST
- 	 18 comments
Fake Plastic Crowds
Does your movie have a large crowd scene? Extras and CGI are expensive! Why not go with an
Inflatable Crowd ?
[ more inside ] posted by
yellowbinder
at 1:45 PM PST
- 	 56 comments
You're driving me to drink! Good Results of Bad Habits? Research Explains Paradox.
There's a lot of research that shows the
deleterious health effects of stress . So shouldn't alleviating stress be a net positive for your health? Why, yes, of course. But what if you relieve stress by a lot of bad habits which themselves have bad health effects? Apparently, you still benefit by reducing stress. Advances in
psychosomatic medicine
have highlighted the link between your mental state and your physical health, but for all of history, human beings have self-medicated their mental health with "bad habits" at the cost of physical health.
[ more inside ] posted by
VikingSword
at 1:43 PM PST
- 	 38 comments
20 Even Stranger and More Wonderful Books 20 Even Stranger and More Wonderful Books.
[ more inside ] posted by
storybored
at 11:54 AM PST
- 	 57 comments
You given me something to live for in the middle of the galaxy in the middle of nowhere Disasteradio-Visions [SLYT]
posted by
The Power Nap
at 11:21 AM PST
- 	 13 comments
Google Exodus
What the Exodus from Egypt would have looked like if Moses had a laptop, Google Maps and Facebook .
[ more inside ] posted by
nickyskye
at 11:01 AM PST
- 	 36 comments
Hey you horror-face! Unreleased 1994 documentary on the Fall
Here's a previously unreleased 1994 documentary on resilient English band the Fall.
[ more inside ] posted by
item
at 9:14 AM PST
- 	 52 comments
A Look at RadioLab
Rob Walker, who writes the "Consumed" column for the New York Times Magazine, talks with Jad Abumrad and Robert Krulwich about
the whys and wherefores of their popular WNYC science radio show and podcast, RadioLab . posted by
ocherdraco
at 8:59 AM PST
- 	 67 comments
"Have friends who are atheists? Agnostics? Into Wicca? Or New Age?"
Dare 2 Share Ministries offers
profiles and tips
on how to "share your faith" with fourteen different types of friends a teen Christian might have, such as
Andy the Atheist ,
Marty the Mormon ,
Jenna the Jew ,
Sid the Satanist ,
Mo the Muslim
and
Willow the Wiccan . If none of those strategies work, they also offer
articles
on how to "use the buzz in current teen culture to initiate God-talk with your friends" by "sharing your faith" through
Indiana Jones ,
Halo 3 ,
Brokeback Mountain ,
Kung Fu Panda
and
The X Files . posted by
jardinier
at 8:47 AM PST
- 	 299 comments
S that D. Shut it down.
Will there be a government shutdown ? Everything seems to hang on
GOP riders .
But it affects
more than the federal employees and contractors . For example, National Parks
will close . And so will DC services. Delegate Eleanor Holmes Norton
tells Congress off , while DC residents wonder
what are we going do with all our trash ? posted by
troika
at 7:14 AM PST
- 	 809 comments
Take 598 ...
Best of a Normal Day ; SLYT, 2.00. posted by
bwg
at 6:28 AM PST
- 	 14 comments
Who On Earth is Rob Granito?
Meet
Rob Granito , Professional
Comic Book
Con
Artist. Sure, his art is perhaps a little
similar to other work , and yeah, his
claims
of industry
contacts
are pretty much made up, and he's been
banned as a fraud from multiple conventions , but hey, a
playa's got to get paid , right? posted by
robocop is bleeding
at 6:16 AM PST
- 	 59 comments
Who's the kid? Archived Baseball photos from 1917-1956
Today, the
Boston Public Library
will publish on the Internet the
first 100
of a trove of nearly 3,000 rarely seen baseball photographs taken by
Leslie Jones , who worked for the Boston Herald and the Boston Traveler from 1917 to 1956. Moments preserved by the shutter and squirreled away in his Dorchester basement, where he kept tens of thousands of images. The Boston Globe has
a selection published here . The first batch of snapshots was released to coincide with today’s Opening Day at Fenway Park. Library staff plan to upload several dozen more images each week until all 2,881 photos are online.
The project is part of a broader initiative by the library to give the public unfettered access to Jones’s entire archive of tens of thousands of images. He photographed
car wrecks
and ice-crusted fishing trawlers; shot luminaries like Albert Einstein and
Amelia Earhart ; and the
people of Boston . posted by
Gungho
at 6:11 AM PST
- 	 18 comments
Yes, Military Comission For You
NYC mayor: Military trial appropriate in 9/11 case.
Khalid Sheikh Mohammed will be tried at a military tribunal in Guantanamo.
US Lawmakers Say Politics Played Role in Military Trial Decision.
Attorney General Eric Holder blames congress for forcing his hand on this.
Slate blasts the Obama administration as "Cowardly, Stupid, and Tragically Wrong".
Previously, the opposite. posted by
rodmandirect
at 5:35 AM PST
- 	 42 comments
12:31
In 1981, 27-year-old
Joseph Paul Jernigan
shot and stabbed the man who discovered him stealing a microwave oven. Jernigan was sentenced to death, and a prison chaplain convinced him to donate his body to
science .
Thirty years on, 1871 slices of his body are animated on a laptop screen and photographed on a long exposure in various dark locations, reconstructing Jernigan as the subject of a
haunting new project . posted by
creeky
at 4:25 AM PST
- 	 48 comments
I might repeat to myself slowly and soothingly, a list of blood and gore from minds profound
Geoff Barrow of Portishead calls " Top Post-Punk Artists as Determined by RYM Ratings " an " amazing musical journey ." But that's far from the most interesting list
Rate Your Music
user
Goregirl has created .
[ more inside ] posted by
waitingtoderail
at 3:26 AM PST
- 	 44 comments
The Gathering's Storm
MinchinFilter:
Storm, the Animated Film , from Tim's 'beat poem' about his confrontation with a credulous fool. ( About )
Related:
"If You Open Your Mind Too Much Your Brain Will Fall Out" posted by
oneswellfoop
at 12:49 AM PST
- 	 40 comments
...his Christian Brother carers competed to become the first to rape him 100 times. Oranges and Sunshine
is a film by Jim Loach, son of
Ken , telling the story of Margaret Humphreys, a social worker who helped uncover a British
Stolen Generation , children taken from often-living parents and shipped overseas.
The Guardian
interviews Harold Haig , one of the victims of the policy:
She was the first to raise the possibility that Haig had been told a terrible untruth – that he might not be an orphan after all. "I didn't think anyone would be so cruel to tell you that sort of a lie," he says. [His mother] had died just a year before he first visited Britain. posted by
rodgerd
at 12:42 AM PST
- 	 10 comments
Attack of The Birds and the Bees Julia Sweeney answers her 8-year-old daughter's questions about sex.
[ via ] posted by
spiderskull
at 12:19 AM PST
- 	 64 comments
April 7 The Friday Flash Fun Before Time
Friday Flash Fun: Remember
Dino Run?
It's back in two new forms.
Dino Run: Marathon Of Doom
is one extra long, hard Dino Run level. It's helping promote
Dino Run SE , a $3 downloadable version with new maps, hats, and dinosaur colors. Money goes to support
Gamma Bros
2. posted by
Lovecraft In Brooklyn
at 11:51 PM PST
- 	 8 comments
I have great faith. Obviously, I've been a Mets fan for forty years.
Jon Stewart hosts a
three
part
debate
with Mike Huckabee about religion, society, and policy.
[ more inside ] posted by
graphnerd
at 11:26 PM PST
- 	 118 comments
A specialized type of planetary gear. Behold the Moebius Gear.
Includes a description of the entire process from modeling to fabrication for your reading pleasure. posted by
boo_radley
at 7:41 PM PST
- 	 28 comments
Buying stocks by the speed of light, in the middle of the ocean
"..the time it takes light to propagate
between [stock] exchanges, for example between New York and London, is now a limiting factor in [financial] trading.. enabling traders to buy low and sell high [ahead of others].."
[ more inside ] posted by
stbalbach
at 7:24 PM PST
- 	 138 comments
David Armand explores the medium of interpretative dance I'm sure many have fond memories of Karaoke for the Deaf, in which 'Johann Lippowitz' gives us Torn. (bit NSFW)
With or without Natalie Imbruglia. And
Wherever I Lay My Hat . Well,
David Armand
aka Johann Lippowitz has been at it again.
This past season, BBC 2 has been airing an improv comedy show called
Fast and Loose
hosted by
Hugh Dennis .
[ more inside ] posted by
likeso
at 6:44 PM PST
- 	 14 comments
Pulp Fashion: Paper Couture Beautiful, elaborate, flowing dresses... made entirely of paper.
"Belgian artist Isabelle de Borchgrave... forms trompe l’oeil masterpieces of elaborate dresses inspired by rich depictions in early European painting or by iconic costumes in museum collections around the world."
Pulp Fashion: The Art of Isabelle de Borchgrave posted by
biddeford
at 6:39 PM PST
- 	 20 comments
Congratulations on coming to the conclusion everyone else made in 1974
The
Nixon Presidential Library
recently opened a
new exhibit
on Watergate. In previous years the museum's position was that the scandal was an attempt by Democrats to overturn the 1972 presidential election, but it is now taking an unforgiving look at the 37th president and the
actions that led to his resignation . posted by
helloknitty
at 6:38 PM PST
- 	 25 comments
For All Mankind
For
All
Mankind
"Al Reinert’s documentary For All Mankind is the story of the twenty-four men who traveled to the moon, told in their words, in their voices, using the images of their experiences. Forty years after the first moon landing, it remains the most radical, visually dazzling work of cinema yet made about this earthshaking event." "For All Mankind is irreplaceable: one of a kind and likely to remain so. It is, formally, among the most radical American films of the past quarter century and, emotionally, among the most powerfully affecting. It makes its impossible title stick. In For All Mankind, we all lift off together, and we all come home the same way, and few movies have captured so well the rhapsodic absurdity of our common voyage."
1
::
2
::
3
::
4
::
5
::
6
::
7
::
8 posted by
puny human
at 6:10 PM PST
- 	 35 comments
A world in glorious black and white. Peter Milton's etching and engraving
work
takes on the
detailed nuance
of fine B&W silver prints.
Peter is colour blind. posted by
arse_hat
at 5:55 PM PST
- 	 5 comments
Open Compute Project
Facebook's
Open Compute Project
aims to
share
with the public the social network's efficiency
design improvements
to its
compute nodes . [
via
] posted by
Blazecock Pileon
at 5:38 PM PST
- 	 11 comments
And a great big blue sky below
32 images of the earth from the blackness of space , many with spacewalking astronauts in the foreground, presented in a Big Picture style. ( via )
[ more inside ] posted by
filthy light thief
at 4:03 PM PST
- 	 34 comments
Waukeshocker Waukeshocker!
After Tuesday's painfully close, still undecided Supreme Court race between JoAnne Kloppenburg and David Prosser, Republicans warned that partisan election officials in certain municipalities might conveniently find bushels of extra uncounted votes after the fact.
It has come to pass
-- but the extra votes were found in deep-red Waukesha County, represnting the entire city of Brookfield, and give GOP favorite David Prosser a probably insurmountable 50.2%/48.8% lead.
Waukesha County Clerk Kathy Nickolaus's policy of storing election returns on a personal computer in her office with no backup
was criticized last August .
Nate Silver says
the new numbers look reasonable . posted by
escabeche
at 4:01 PM PST
- 	 255 comments
50 Books Every Eleven-Year-Old Should Read The Independent (UK) proposes a list of fifty books that every eleven-year-old should read.
[ more inside ] posted by
Halloween Jack
at 2:24 PM PST
- 	 96 comments
Budgetary Hemlock
How can you have a university without a philosophy department?
In response to a
17% budget cut to higher education by Governor Sandoval , the University of Nevada at Las Vegas is
proposing the complete elimination
of its
Philosophy Department . The Mayor of Las Vegas
has called it a sin.
Others have said
it seems like something out of an episode of
The Simpsons .
Todd Edwin Jones, chair of the UNLV Philosophy Department,
makes his case. posted by
Lutoslawski
at 2:20 PM PST
- 	 159 comments
AtariPadGasm
Atari Brings 100 Retro Titles to iOS in "Atari's Greatest Hits".
Designed for the
iCade .
Toucharcade review .
ArsTecnica review .
Does it break the iTunes App rules? . posted by
chavenet
at 2:11 PM PST
- 	 73 comments
So much depends on /proper syntax
This is just to say/Mefi's
Cortex /has created/ a william carlos williams/
poem generator
Forgive me/ it came from Think Stank/
Previously posted by
The Whelk
at 1:43 PM PST
- 	 79 comments
Now who will call us Hitler?
Glenn Beck's television show has been canceled by Fox News.
[ more inside ] posted by
cereselle
at 1:41 PM PST
- 	 122 comments
Irwin is a brain-damaged kangaroo & therapy pet
Irwin broke his neck. A woman facing her own challenges adopted him, hopes to keep him . There's
video , too. posted by
ambient2
at 1:28 PM PST
- 	 20 comments
‘Mad Men’ opening credits in CSS3 and JavaScript Mad Men
opening credits in CSS3 and JavaScript.
Using scripting and CSS, designer/developer/sharp dresser Andy Clarke and animators
Anthony Calzadilla and Geri Coady
reproduce
Mad Men ’s opening credits in-browser .
[ more inside ] posted by
joeclark
at 12:45 PM PST
- 	 75 comments
"This is the largest market you’ve never heard of." TheFix.com
is a new site targeting the more than 40 million Americans who are recovering from drug and/or alcohol addiction. It features Ask-An-Expert
videos , news, editorials and thorough
reviews
of rehab facilities based on Zagat's system.
Founded by
Maer Roshan, one of the founders of Radar Magazine.
( Via )
[ more inside ] posted by
zarq
at 12:12 PM PST
- 	 36 comments
O pais do futuro? Lula's Brazil
- "Compared with his predecessors, he had the imagination, born of social identification, to see that the Brazilian state could afford to be more generous to the least well-off, in ways that have made a substantial difference to their lives. But these concessions have come at no cost to the rich or comfortably-off, who in any absolute reckoning have done even better – far better – during these years. Does that really matter, it can be asked: isn't this just the definition of the most desirable of all economic outcomes, a Pareto optimum?" ( via
via ) posted by
kliuless
at 11:00 AM PST
- 	 16 comments
PJ Shrugs
Atlas Shrugged and so did I .
PJ O'Rourke
has seen
Atlas Shrugged
( the movie - part 1 ) and ...
[ more inside ] posted by
philip-random
at 9:24 AM PST
- 	 201 comments
Prime Numbers For Web Designers The Cicada Principle and Why It Matters to Web Designers
posted by
veedubya
at 9:18 AM PST
- 	 38 comments
Dear Woman Dear Woman,
we stand before you today as men committed to becoming more conscious in every way. posted by
Avenger50
at 9:06 AM PST
- 	 197 comments
The Ship Captain’s Medical Guide The Ship Captain’s Medical Guide.
The Ship Captain’s Medical Guide is intended primarily for use on ships where no doctor is carried and it is necessary for laymen to assess and treat injuries and to diagnose and treat ill health. The Guide can also be recommended for use in other situations where professional medical advice is not readily available, for example on expeditions. posted by
leigh1
at 8:42 AM PST
- 	 35 comments
Japan hit by another earthquake A tsunami warning has been issued for north-eastern Japan after an earthquake with a magnitude of 7.4.
Per
Reuters : "Tokyo Electric says its engineers at Fukushima Daiichi plant have evacuated after tsunami warning." However, NISA reports that the Onagawa nuke plant in Miyagi-ken has lost 2 of 3 external power grids. posted by
pleasebekind
at 8:22 AM PST
- 	 76 comments
Spitalfields Nippers
Of the two hundred and forty
photographs Horace Warner shot in 1912 of the Spitalfields Nippers , only 30 are around today.
[ more inside ] posted by
gman
at 7:48 AM PST
- 	 29 comments
What Civil Rights? My Student, the 'Terrorist'
If this were a movie, the story might end with a triumphal courtroom scene, or an intrepid Washington Post reporter breaking the story. It might have a sentimental ending, with a conservative Muslim family and community locking arms with Christians and Jews and atheists and turning the country back to its commitment to civil rights. The government, shamed, would reform its practices.
But this is not a movie, and inhumane treatment is well protected in post-9/11 America.
[ more inside ] posted by
bardophile
at 4:43 AM PST
- 	 56 comments
War and Conflict Across the Globe Conflict History: a Timeline of War and Conflict Across the Globe
You can browse the timeline to find information about wars from
a long time ago
up to
the present . A map shows the conflicts spread across the globe. You can search for specific wars: we got your
War of Jenkins' Ear
and your
Battle of Gqokli Hill . posted by
marxchivist
at 4:10 AM PST
- 	 13 comments
Off with his head! Little old ladies do it too, not just dictators.
posted by
infini
at 4:07 AM PST
- 	 20 comments
James Salter Month at The Paris Review
James Salter Month
at
The Paris Review . A series of articles throughout April celebrating the
life
and
work
of one of the best at his craft there is. A great writer indeed. posted by
hydatius
at 3:58 AM PST
- 	 9 comments
Symphonic Youtube
Is the
Youtube Symphony Orchestra
a viable model for traditional symphony orchestras in the West? It's only been around for
a couple of years
but seems to be causing enough of a stir to be taken pretty seriously. posted by
joboe
at 3:00 AM PST
- 	 45 comments
April 6 Max Rebo Would Be Proud Star Wars: The Musical
is now available in full. The 1996 musical was directed by 3 high school students and features a 40 person cast. posted by
Lovecraft In Brooklyn
at 11:37 PM PST
- 	 15 comments
"I wondered how much straight Galliano would deliver me to a merciful death."
Acclaimed food and music critic
Jonathan Gold
was hungry for some Italian.
He decided to go to
The Olive Garden . posted by
bardic
at 11:28 PM PST
- 	 183 comments
Nonplayer: From Concept to Comic
Illustrator
Nate Simpson
was a longtime veteran of the video game and concept art industries.
Back in 2009, he opted to take a year off from work to work on
Gordon and the Stareater , his first attempt at sequential art.This week, Simpson's first major-publisher creator-owned comics project,
Nonplayer , hit the stands courtesy of the folks at Image. How'd the experiment work out?
[ more inside ] posted by
fairytale of los angeles
at 10:33 PM PST
- 	 17 comments
The slinging power of a slingshot, mixed with the stabbing power of a machete
A slingshot that shoots machetes.
[ more inside ] posted by
codacorolla
at 9:42 PM PST
- 	 58 comments
a six-issue comic with a view to introducing a new hero into an existing canon
‘Capitalists are a superstitious cowardly lot,’ Louise says. ‘This f*cker put our town out with the trash, threw us on the scrap heap. Well, the scrap heap’s got up, and it’s coming for him.’
China Miéville’s rejected pitch for a superhero for our times. posted by
gerryblog
at 9:06 PM PST
- 	 66 comments
The Military's Secret Shame
When men in the military rape other men in the ranks, no one wants to talk about it.
Why the sexual assault of males in the service is finally being confronted .
[ more inside ] posted by
hippybear
at 8:55 PM PST
- 	 47 comments
Motif No. 1
The dark red
fishing shack
on Bearskin Neck wharf in the artists' colony
Rockport, Massachusetts
"is one of the most famous buildings in the world and instantly recognizable to any student of art or art history."
America's most-painted building
received its name in an impulsive exclamation by famed illustrator, etcher and art teacher Lester Hornby. Its name?
Motif No. 1
"One day when a student brought for criticism a pencil drawing of the house, Hornby exclaimed, 'What-Motif No 1 again!' It has been that ever since."
[ more inside ] posted by
ericb
at 8:40 PM PST
- 	 24 comments
Didn’t you notice the palpable difference between what is happening in Libya and what is happening elsewhere?
"[T]he real target of Western bombers and soldiers is in no way the wretched Gaddafi...For the target of the bombers is definitely the popular uprising in Egypt and the revolution in Tunisia, it is their unexpected and intolerable character, their political autonomy, in a word: their independence."
Philosopher Alain Badiou attacks the left's support for the NATO intervention in Libya.
Background:
Europe's economic entanglements with Gaddafi's Libya
in the Irish Left Review. posted by
Pastabagel
at 8:21 PM PST
- 	 44 comments
Send Your Name For Great Victory Against The Red Planet
Scheduled for November 25th, the
Mars Science Laboratory - Curiosity Rover
will launch on an
8.5 month journey to Mars .
Upon arrival, it will plummet through the atmosphere in a flying-saucer-like
aeroshell
and execute a most unusual landing via
skycrane .
Curiosity carries a
dizzying array of cameras and sensors , but more importantly a
high powered laser
to teach Mars who is boss, and oh, maybe
your name
if you let it. posted by
pashdown
at 8:09 PM PST
- 	 21 comments
Sleep is for the weak. 1-3 percent of the population may be natural "short sleepers" who function well on only a few hours sleep.
Not only are these people both night owls AND early birds, they function perfectly happily on a short amount of sleep, without caffeine, without drowsiness. They're more energized, multitask more, are thinner, and are very cheerful and resilient.
Sounds like
Beggars In Spain
wasn't too far off... posted by
jenfullmoon
at 7:54 PM PST
- 	 81 comments
I can take a phrase that's rarely heard - flip it - now it's a daily word
In the early 1990's, a young Kejuan Muchita put to use a recording from 5 years before he was born.
The recording was Herbie Hancock's 1969 song
"Jessica".
Not ringing a bell?
Well perhaps
this brief video
will help you listen to how it
morphed
into something
just as beautiful , and perhaps more familiar.
[ more inside ] posted by
cashman
at 7:17 PM PST
- 	 18 comments
The Israeli Peace Initiave, April 6 2011 Israeli ex-military and intelligence officials draft a plan for peace.
[ more inside ] posted by
moorooka
at 7:04 PM PST
- 	 28 comments
Maybe not as entertaining as the naked ladies post.
Hot Rocks : the winning entries in Wired's geology photography contest. posted by
helloknitty
at 6:03 PM PST
- 	 10 comments
Better Than LSD
Sex After a Field Trip Yields Scientific Discovery.
Via:
/. posted by
rosswald
at 5:51 PM PST
- 	 36 comments
Jesus Christ Savior
Klaus Kinski
as
Jesus
Christ :
1
::
2
::
3
::
4
::
5
::
6
::
7
::
8
::
9 posted by
puny human
at 5:46 PM PST
- 	 19 comments
No models, no makeup, no glamor NuProject
is the ongoing project of Minneapolis-based photographer
Matt Blum . He describes it as "a series of nudes of normal people." The rules: no models, no makeup and no glamour. He has been working on it since 2005. posted by
Rudy Gerner
at 4:05 PM PST
- 	 98 comments
The Twitter Three & Ethan McCord
On the
one
year
anniversary
of wikileaks release of
Collateral Murder , Panorama has released a
documentary
on the shooting featuring an
interview
with
Ethan McCord .
The Netherlands' Minister of Foreign Affairs Uri Rosenthal commemorated the occasion by informing a Green MP that he
"would not rule out extraditing Rop Gonggrijp to the US"
for Gonggrijp's role in the video's production.
The ACLU and EFF are
appealing
a U.S. subpoena of the twitter accounts belonging to Rop Gonggrijp,
Birgitta Jonsdottir , and
Jacob
Appelbaum . posted by
jeffburdges
at 2:01 PM PST
- 	 7 comments
Fermilab to announce new physics The CDF collaboration at Fermilab is set to announce evidence for non-Standard Model physics today.
The experiment at the Tevatron particle collider has released a
paper on the Arxiv
stating it has found evidence for a potential new particle that
isn't
the Higgs boson.
A
live stream announcing the results
will begin at 4pm Central time (21:00 GMT).
[ more inside ] posted by
auto-correct
at 1:53 PM PST
- 	 50 comments
Not just for fanfic
Livejournal has been straining to keep up service in the face of
repeated
DDoS
attacks .
Fingers
are being
pointed
at the
Kremlin , but
others
are skeptical. While often associated with media fandom in the English speaking world, Livejournal
is extremely popular in Russia , and home to
presidents
and
dissidents
( info ) alike.
[ more inside ] posted by
kmz
at 1:49 PM PST
- 	 35 comments
House of Cards indeed
An amateur
filmmaker
is
no longer
pleading his innocence
in the death of a man who was killed, cut up and dumped into a sewer.
[ more inside ] posted by
ricochet biscuit
at 1:40 PM PST
- 	 41 comments
It's Alive! Alive!
Watch stem cells spontaneously form into an eye in the lab . Japanese scientists at the
Riken Centre for Developmental Biology
have successfully encouraged mouse stem cells to form a crude eye - the first time the optic structure has been created outside a living host - with hopes of human cell trials in two years. posted by
Bora Horza Gobuchul
at 1:39 PM PST
- 	 33 comments
The One Percent Nation Joseph Stiglitz
in May's Vanity Fair ;
Inequality: Of the 1%, by the 1%, for the 1%
Americans have been watching protests against oppressive regimes that concentrate massive wealth in the hands of an elite few. Yet in our own democracy, 1 percent of the people take nearly a quarter of the nation’s income—an inequality even the wealthy will come to regret. ( via ) posted by
adamvasco
at 1:21 PM PST
- 	 85 comments
Mexican pointy boots.
Mexican pointy boots.
[SLYT].
[ more inside ] posted by
stonepharisee
at 1:08 PM PST
- 	 39 comments
2011 ASME Awards
2011 National Magazine Awards Finalists Announced
(Instapaperable list)
[ more inside ] posted by
AceRock
at 1:05 PM PST
- 	 8 comments
"Greatness alone is not enough, or the cow would outrun the hare." - Proverb Udderly Amazing.
[SLYT]
15-year-old German girl could not have a horse, so she trained one of her family's cows to become a show jumper. Luna the cow has come to navigate the pasture with equine ease. posted by
Fizz
at 12:07 PM PST
- 	 45 comments
Just one little tweak
As if magicked into existence by wonderful twitter hashtag
#hollywoodpostitnotes : It's
When Harry Met Sally 2 , now starring Helen Mirren. posted by
Potomac Avenue
at 12:06 PM PST
- 	 20 comments
Which of shape is insane? The Pierly/Redford Dissociative Affect Diagnostic
"This is an exploration of your brain's affective response system. Nonverbal, emotional reactions to shape tableau will target the portion of your brain that is intuitive and pre-lingual. The associated questions should be answered without tying theses shapes to any narrative or storyline.... There are 20 questions. Your answers will be tabulated at the end and your responses measured against our reference group.
Take the test ." [warning: blinky] posted by
filthy light thief
at 11:28 AM PST
- 	 187 comments
Better than the Kevin Costner Version
Bottle , a lovely stop-motion film by animator
Kirsten Lepore
[NSFW], explores a long-distance relationship fueled by communication via not-so-instant message. [Kirsten Lepore
previously , kinda] posted by
bayani
at 11:15 AM PST
- 	 18 comments
Might as well ask me to go without Internet
Would
you
give up
Snark ?
[ more inside ] posted by
Hardcore Poser
at 9:51 AM PST
- 	 130 comments
Guns! Guns! Guns!
Gun Fetish
- A montague of gun scenes from the movies created by
Edgar
Wright
back in 1993 posted by
fearfulsymmetry
at 9:50 AM PST
- 	 23 comments
Nobody's born in the forest Cultural differences
( via ) is a video created by
National Geographic
which documents the
culture shock
(no not
that
kind) experienced by
Sudanese
immigrants to the United States. Though in a country
with
such
str ife , this may come as
no surprise .
[ more inside ] posted by
Wyatt
at 8:57 AM PST
- 	 33 comments
Still smells like teen spirit
Kurt Cobain's ( obligatory Wikipedia link ) body was found at his home on April 8, 1994. His estimated time of death was three days previously - that is, seventeen years ago yesterday.
[ more inside ] posted by
running order squabble fest
at 8:32 AM PST
- 	 256 comments
"Enhance!" Access Main Computer File,
a collection of (often preposterous) graphical user interfaces culled from dozens and dozens of films, or as the site itself puts it, " A VISUAL STUDY OF COMPUTER GUI IN CINEMA ."
( via Subtraction ) posted by
ocherdraco
at 7:59 AM PST
- 	 127 comments
And Tibetan Prayer Beads
A
love song
to Ira Glass. posted by
jph
at 7:49 AM PST
- 	 45 comments
Garbo's fate: eternally desired, never alone again. *Sooo* much hotter than Andrew Jackson.
Sveriges Riksbank
has announced that great
Greta Garbo
will grace the sexy, new blue-themed 100 Krona note, Sweden's closest equivalent to the US $20 bill. In April, the Riksbank is announcing a design competition for the banknotes, with the final design selected by early 2012, and the currency released by 2014-2015. Other new faces in Sweden's complete currency makeover include author
Astrid Lindgren , musician
Evert Taube , director
Ingmar Bergman , sopranist
Birgit Nilsson , and diplomat
Dag Hammarskjöld . posted by
markkraft
at 7:37 AM PST
- 	 55 comments
Hyperphotos
French photographer and digital artist
Jean Francois Rauzier stitches together hundreds of photographs to create massive (zoom-able) images .
[ more inside ] posted by
gman
at 7:16 AM PST
- 	 12 comments
Modern (Western?) Mistakes
7 Basic Things You Won't Believe You're All Doing Wrong posted by
beisny
at 5:46 AM PST
- 	 145 comments
Why Donald Duck is the Jerry Lewis of Germany
Dr. Fuchs’s Donald was no ordinary comic creation. He was a bird of arts and letters, and many Germans credit him with having initiated them into the language of the literary classics. The German comics are peppered with fancy quotations. In one story Donald’s nephews steal famous lines from Friedrich Schiller’s play “William Tell”; Donald garbles a classic Schiller poem, “The Bell,” in another. Other lines are straight out of Goethe, Hölderlin and even Wagner (whose words are put in the mouth of a singing cat). The great books later sounded like old friends when readers encountered them at school. As the German Donald points out, “ Reading is educational!
We learn so much from the works of our poets and thinkers.”
[ more inside ] posted by
cgc373
at 5:37 AM PST
- 	 16 comments
That's a big ass rocket $1,000 per pound to orbit is the holy grail for rocket pricing.
Elon Musk claims that his SpaceX corporation's new Falcon Heavy
will be able to lift 117,000 lbs.
to low earth orbit for 1/3rd the cost of the next most capable launchers,
the space shuttle
and the
Delta IV Heavy .
[ more inside ] posted by
tgrundke
at 5:30 AM PST
- 	 39 comments
Mapping Petersburg Mapping Petersburg
"..explores the everyday life and the material, political, and literary culture of St. Petersburg
[..]
at the beginning of the twentieth century. It maps eleven itineraries through the city with the purpose of creating a palpable sense of life in Russia's late imperial capital on the eve of the 1917 revolution and during the subsequent decade." [ About ] [ via ]
[ more inside ] posted by
peacay
at 2:00 AM PST
- 	 8 comments
Soft and sweet and shaped like a potato
You say potato, Valve say... potato.
Just over a year after the
Portal 2 announcement ARG
( previously )
had people dialing up a mysterious BBS, on April 1st Valve pushed out updates to
thirteen indie games
through Steam, under the tag #potatofoolsday.
Some of the games
got
a
little
starchy
straight away, but more interesting was the appearance of
cryptic glyphs , which seemed to link to other games in the set, and
nonsense phrases .
Alongside a
cheeky coded shoutout
to members of the
Facepunch
forums, a hidden frame in the latest Aperture Science Investment Opportunity video
( 1 ,
2 ,
3 )
appeared to confirm there are 16 glyph-and-letter sets, and 13 phrases to be found in and around the games.
But what to do with them even when the set's complete?
And what of the uplifted
talking
raccoon
and the
blogger
whose
boss 's
brother
has been kidnapped by
sentient potatoes ?
[ more inside ] posted by
emmtee
at 1:53 AM PST
- 	 115 comments
Participatory Budgeting.
Government can't solve budget battles?
Let citizens do it . posted by
-
at 12:07 AM PST
- 	 33 comments
April 5 fountain pens, brass buckles, nail files, cigarettes, a “gold zecchino issued by Pope Alexander VI”, barley sugar, hypodermic needles and drugs Kenneth Grant, who has died aged 86, was probably the last living link to the voluptuary, occultist and megalomaniac Aleister Crowley;
after Crowley’s death Grant co-edited and published many of the self-styled mystic’s writings, but he also became involved in a protracted wrangle over his own claim to be Crowley’s heir.
Via. posted by
Lovecraft In Brooklyn
at 10:50 PM PST
- 	 34 comments
Project Nekton Redux
Over 50 years after the original
Project Nekton ,
high-flying
adventurer
Sir Richard Branson 's
Virgin Oceanic
team
plans
five dives
into the deep blue sea with a
one-man flying sub , starting with the 36,201 foot deep
Mariana Trench . posted by
cenoxo
at 10:33 PM PST
- 	 30 comments
"Dance is a song of the body."
Guy dances:
Dance Battle Submission
| Girl dances:
Slats Slats Slats .
[ more inside ] posted by
nickyskye
at 9:37 PM PST
- 	 44 comments
Stanley Kubrick’s Chicago, 1949 Stanley Kubrick’s Chicago, 1949
[
via
]
[ more inside ] posted by
Blazecock Pileon
at 9:28 PM PST
- 	 20 comments
REM: This is not a pop video, it's something very different
Collapse Into Now Film Project
is a set of 12 short videos to accompany the songs on R.E.M.s latest album.
“I chose to do the film project as an attempt to redefine what an ‘album’ can be in the 21st century,”
[Stipe] said. “And I matched all of the songs to artists I thought could best translate each into a film or visual piece.”
Half the films are available on
Youtube :
It Happened Today
Oh My Heart
Mine Smell Like Honey
(contains Stipe being manhandled)
Uberlin
(contains
Kick-Ass
star dancing)
Alligator Aviator Autopilot Antimatter
(features Peaches)
Walk It Back
(contains horse penis)
[ more inside ] posted by
WhackyparseThis
at 8:51 PM PST
- 	 18 comments
"Serial monogamy" and "domino dads"
A University of Michigan study has found that
1 in 5 American women have had children by several different men . Time Magazine dubs the phenomenon " domino dads ". The study is the first of its kind to survey Americans from all walks of life, and it finds that the practice can be found across economic classes. But is its publication putting an
unfair spotlight on black women ? posted by
shii
at 8:50 PM PST
- 	 63 comments
The Owls Are Not What They Seem.
Laughing Owls.
That is all. posted by
The Owls
at 8:38 PM PST
- 	 31 comments
You are your Favorite Classic Rock band!
What your Favorite Classic Rock Band says About You (Part One)
as well as
What your Favorite Classic Rock Band says About You (Part Two) posted by
storybored
at 8:13 PM PST
- 	 83 comments
The end is/was supposed to be near! Pick a year
to find out when the world should have ended/is ending/will end. posted by
daninnj
at 7:02 PM PST
- 	 30 comments
Jewish holiday music videos
Forget
Adam Sandler . Over the past few years, there has been a proliferation of Jewish take-offs of popular songs. The Fountainheads have produced
Purim
and
Pesach (Passover)
covers. The Maccabeats had a good amount of exposure with their
Hanukkah
and put out a
Purim , too.
Of course,
not
all of these songs are covers. posted by
dzkalman
at 6:49 PM PST
- 	 8 comments
Nanomachines will save us from the new medical Middle Ages IBM researchers working on nanoparticles to destroy drug-resistant bacteria
Hot on the heels of
a report on the horrific threat of antibiotics-resistant bacteria , this article highlights one possible solution- using polymers that would attack bacteria membranes, instead of drugs.
[ more inside ] posted by
Apocryphon
at 5:39 PM PST
- 	 21 comments
A Mermaid's Tale
"One day a little boy came up, he must have been about four and he saw me taking off my (prosthetic) legs and he started with the 'why' questions, you know, 'why haven't you got any legs', etc. And I said 'have you heard of The Little Mermaid?' and he said 'yes' and I said 'I'm a mermaid' and he got this look on his face and he said 'wow that's cool' and ran off to tell his dad.
I'll have to turn up to that beach again sometime with my tail - just in case he's there."
Weta Digital
are the special effects team behind the costumes, weapons and creatures of the
Lord of the Rings
movies,
Avatar
and even
a sonic screwdriver prop
that could be making an appearance on the next season of Doctor Who.
In 2009, they
created a fully functional mermaid tail
pro bono
for Nadya Vessey,
an Auckland woman who is a double leg amputee .
Video News Report:
1 ,
2 . posted by
zarq
at 4:18 PM PST
- 	 37 comments
A Tiny Day A Tiny Day in the Jackson Hole Backcountry
posted by
puny human
at 3:14 PM PST
- 	 33 comments
Asked whether Tomlinson posed a threat, Harwood replied: "Not to me, no."
We have heard how the officer – who had been expected to remain stationed by his van – strayed from his post after grappling with a protester he tried to arrest for spraying graffiti on a colleague's vehicle.
He then swung a coat at another protester, pulled a BBC cameraman to the ground, used a palm strike against a man trying to get through a cordon and finally pushed a man he said was threatening a dog handler.
Harwood said he was confused, isolated and fearful of his life, and was dealing with a "very hostile" crowd.
When we resume in the next few minutes, we should hear finally about his encounter with Tomlinson.
Liveblogging the Ian Tomlinson inquest:
Police Constable
Simon Harwood
explains his alleged attack on
Ian Tomlinson posted by
orthogonality
at 2:16 PM PST
- 	 77 comments
Skeletal Archiporn Scaffoldage.
If you like construction, with particular reference to terrifyingly lashed-together metal or bamboo rods reaching dizzyingly up into the sky, then you've come to the right thread. posted by
The Discredited Ape
at 2:15 PM PST
- 	 23 comments
But here comes Judy Graham Swallows on the outside!!
It's that time of year again! Time to vote for the
2011 Name of the Year ! This year's contestants include such heavyweights as Col. Many-Bears Grinder, Ebenezer Noonoo, Yolanda Supersad, RexAchilles Imperial, and La'Peaches Pitts.
[ more inside ] posted by
eugenen
at 2:08 PM PST
- 	 61 comments
Follow Up: Entreprenuer featured on front page of StartUp Britain speaks out
Follow Up: Entreprenuer featured on front page of StartUp Britain speaks out posted by
nam3d
at 2:04 PM PST
- 	 12 comments
Chump Change
A Euro
Scam
That Unfolded at a Snail's Pace
“It wasn’t so unusual to get coins from China,” said Susanne Kreutzer, a
Bundesbank
spokesman. “That is a business model for some people.” posted by
chavenet
at 1:42 PM PST
- 	 18 comments
The Setup
"You may have heard the name Christopher Butler in the news lately but certainly not for reasons that the 49-year-old Concord resident would want you to know about. I’ve been following Butler’s mysterious story since last August, when he invited me to write a
Diablo
feature about his business.
It unexpectedly turned out to be the most interesting—and frightening—story in my 14 years of being a journalist. " posted by
brundlefly
at 1:10 PM PST
- 	 69 comments
Inside David Foster Wallace's Private Self-Help Library
Inside David Foster Wallace's Private Self-Help Library posted by
AceRock
at 1:02 PM PST
- 	 71 comments
What is it good for, to stop the time?
[Antonioni] gave to three elderly Muslims the pictures he had taken of them. The eldest one as soon as he took a glance at the photos, immediately returned them with these words: "What is it good for, to stop the time?"
Andrei Tarkovsky's Polaroids posted by
juv3nal
at 11:48 AM PST
- 	 19 comments
No matter how technologically advanced your future society might be, its sociology and economics are basically those of the seventeenth century
How To Write A Generic SF Novel posted by
Artw
at 10:54 AM PST
- 	 166 comments
Seoul tears down an urban freeway and the city can breathe again
Seoul tears down an urban freeway and life goes on posted by
aniola
at 9:55 AM PST
- 	 104 comments
The Brisk, Shady Sale of ‘Loosies’
With the crackdown on smoking and higher cigarette taxes in New York City,
people who sell individual cigarettes, also known as loosies, are rapidly gaining new customers . posted by
reenum
at 9:37 AM PST
- 	 69 comments
The beast of Gévaudan
WANTED: Known as 'La Bête' but kills under three aliases. Reddish brown with dark ridged stripe down the back. Resembles wolf/hyena but big as a donkey. Long gaping jaw, 6 claws, pointy upright ears and supple furry tail - mobile like a cat's and can knock you over. Cry: more like horse neighing than wolf howling. Last seen by people mostly now dead.
Wolf, werewolf, hyena, baboon or mesonychid: In many respects the beast of Gévaudan was like other creatures in the annals of cryptozoology - but for one: historical records indicate that, over a 4 year span, it (or 'they')
killed around 100 people - eating most of them .
[ more inside ] posted by
rongorongo
at 9:18 AM PST
- 	 42 comments
Winded Winded
- a journey to find out the real truth behind Wind Turbines [SLVimeo]. posted by
scruss
at 9:03 AM PST
- 	 63 comments
Adoption Disruption “We need to honor and recognize that adoption is different and not a replacement for birth children we never had.
Not until then can we really embrace how adoption really is different and how we need to go about parenting differently. Social workers have to speak the truth about that.”
An excellent, thorough, and even-handed article about adoption disruption. posted by
the young rope-rider
at 8:44 AM PST
- 	 46 comments
Scott Walker Pays $81.5K Gov’t Salary to Drunk-Driving Loser Son of Crony
Wisconsin Governor Walker's recent union busting bill did more than just bust unions.
It also converts 37 top agency attorneys, communications officials and legislative liaisons from civil service positions to jobs appointed by the governor.
Meet Brian Deschane
a 20-something
college drop-out with two drunk driving convictions . He the new man in charge of environmental regulations in Wisconsin.
[ more inside ] posted by
Bonzai
at 7:49 AM PST
- 	 556 comments
The Gradual Demise of Phillipa Finch
The Gradual Demise of Phillipa Finch
is a cute animated sketch currently showing on the ABC network in Australia. You can view short (2-3 minute) episodes on the website. Better yet you can create your own
interactive heartscape .
[ more inside ] posted by
skauskas
at 6:43 AM PST
- 	 5 comments
Vs. Airman
Vs. Airman
is kind of mind-blowing the first time you see it.
It is not a PC or flash game, but a romhack that can run on a real NES.
But which game is it a hack of?
[ more inside ] posted by
JHarris
at 1:46 AM PST
- 	 17 comments
One Fish, Two Fish, LionFish SHARK.
Lionfish have invaded ; several creative attempts have been made to eradicate the poisonous fish.
Restaurants
and the
government
are putting them on the menu, spear fishermen are organizing hunts, and more recently
divers are training sharks to hunt them . posted by
Felex
at 1:43 AM PST
- 	 50 comments
Back to the future
If you've been to Tokyo anytime in the past few months, you can't have missed seeing the new Tokyo Sky Tree [ images
|
official website ]. The tower is not quite finished, but is already the world's tallest tower (and second highest structure after the Burj Khalifa).
But that's not what this post is about.
"A tower resembling Tokyo Sky Tree -- the world's tallest broadcasting tower currently under construction in Tokyo's Sumida Ward --
has been found depicted on a landscape ukiyo-e woodblock print from the mid-19th century. "
And they
aren't kidding ! posted by
woodblock100
at 12:28 AM PST
- 	 37 comments
April 4 "I am 100 percent Palestinian and 100 percent Jewish."
Israeli actor and political activist
Juliano Mer-Khamis , born to a Jewish mother and an Arab Christian father,
was
killed
on Monday
outside
the theater which he founded
in a refugee camp in the West Bank city of Jenin. posted by
beisny
at 11:44 PM PST
- 	 30 comments
At 7AM It Rocks Out! 24 hours of L.A. traffic set to music.
(SLunder2minuteYT) (May be considered a rebuttal to
"You are listening to Los Angeles" . Or maybe
"Monster Commute" .)2> posted by
oneswellfoop
at 11:34 PM PST
- 	 14 comments
Eco-friendly Wilderness Evacuation
Ah wilderness! What better place to escape the stifling trappings of urban existence - overflowing inboxes, two-hour commutes, social-media addiction. And, of course, indoor plumbing. "Take off your shoes for a while, unzip your fly, piss hearty, dig your toes in the hot sand, feel that raw and rugged earth," the great Western author and curmudgeon Edward Abbey once exhorted car-bound city slickers. Contemplating the reasons for taking a trek down the Appalachian Trail (and aping Abbey-ish machismo), travel writer Bill Bryson mused, "I wanted a little of that swagger that comes with being able to gaze at a far horizon through eyes of chipped granite and say with a slow, manly sniff, ' Yeah, I've shit in the woods .'" posted by
vidur
at 10:50 PM PST
- 	 36 comments
TETSUOOOOOOOOOOOO!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! Join the hunt for the prototype Akira games on the SNES and Sega Genesis.
Hardcore Gaming 101
is searching for
Larry Siegel , a developer they are convinced holds more information on the legendary unreleased games. Though the legendary anime and manga has spawned a
1988 graphic adventure
and
PS2 pinball game
none do the movie proper justice.
[ more inside ] posted by
Lovecraft In Brooklyn
at 10:39 PM PST
- 	 12 comments
Dear NASA, Your Mom thought I was big enough. Love, Pluto
Following in the footsteps of prestigious publications like the
Annals of Improbable Research ,
NCBI ROFL ,
Rejecta Mathematica ,
the Journal of Universal Rejection , and the
Journal of Unpublished Results , comes the
Journal of Are You Fucking Kidding .
Previous ,
previously , and
previouslier .
h/t to
Retraction Watch posted by
Minus215Cee
at 6:50 PM PST
- 	 15 comments
A beautiful and powerful solar system viewing tool. Have fun and learn at the same time.
posted by
analogtom
at 6:26 PM PST
- 	 23 comments
Haiti's new prez
One of his groovingest tracks was called
I Don't Care , but apparently Michel Martelly, aka Sweet Micky, decided he
did
care enough about Haiti to run for president of the country. And now he's
president of the country . Unlike Bill Clinton, however, Sweet Micky
definitely
inhaled, and, hey...
he's on a
horse .
[ more inside ] posted by
flapjax at midnite
at 6:21 PM PST
- 	 17 comments
A band of sisters and brothers in a circle of trust Images of a People's Movement
- more than 18 pages of photos and dozens of first-hand
narratives, interviews & recollections
of the 1951-1968 Southern Freedom Movement by the
Civil Rights Movement Veterans .
(These are just samplings - it's a deep and rich site.)
[ more inside ] posted by
madamjujujive
at 6:08 PM PST
- 	 12 comments
Something something Terminator something Predator
Zdenek Kalal, a PhD student at the University of Surrey in England, has developed the
coolest object tracking software you'll see this week . posted by
auto-correct
at 4:54 PM PST
- 	 88 comments
The Big Map Blog
The Big Map Blog
– Five-hundred enormous historical maps; all downloadable in their highest resolution. With a new map every Monday, Wednesday and Friday, and 1,700 to go!
[via
mefi projects ] posted by
carsonb
at 4:07 PM PST
- 	 43 comments
What do you mean, 'We hired a dog'?
Network Awesome has compiled
a short history of some of Jim Henson's early muppet work , including his infamously dark Wilson's Coffee commercials:
(on YouTube)
1 ,
2 ,
3
and the
IBM Muppet Show .
(Who among us
hasn't
woken up in the morning and wanted to
eat their coffee machine?
( Previously ) ( Via )
[ more inside ] posted by
zarq
at 4:05 PM PST
- 	 21 comments
Slightly funnier than placebo
Those bearing XY chromosomes and those who love them will be thrilled to watch
Manhood In The Mirror , a cautionary, educational parody about the importance of self-examination in the treatment of testicular cancer.
Both
text
and
video
instructions for TSEs are available, as well as
some background on the video itself .
Brought to you by
ZDoggMD , a
medical satirist
with other videos, such as
Immunize! . posted by
hippybear
at 2:52 PM PST
- 	 21 comments
Picture Postcard
Picture Postcard archives at
Artnet :
2002
::
2003
::
2004
::
2005
::
2006
::
2007 posted by
puny human
at 1:39 PM PST
- 	 23 comments
Exit Through the Tasmanian, Professional Gambler-Funded Museum's Gift Shop "It was always about the intersection of creativity and chaos."
So said Kirsha Kaechele, described at Wikipedia as an "American contemporary art curator, artist, and practitioner of sustainable architecture," of the avant-garde
Life is Art Foundation/KKProjects
art happening that she carried out via Katrina flooding-devastated homes in the St. Roch area of New Orleans' Upper Ninth Ward. These homes now lie in ruins, as they did before. She owes back taxes on the homes, and city has placed tax liens worth $28,000 on two of them. While she can afford the back taxes, she says, the liens are beyond her means. A medicinal marijuana farm created to fund Life is Art failed to make enough money to fund the projects. In any case, she has spent the past five months in Tasmania with her boyfriend, professional gambler and art curator
David Walsh , where he has established something called the
Museum of New and Old Art . (Pause.) I believe that connects all the most relevant dots as succinctly as possible.
[ more inside ] posted by
raysmj
at 1:22 PM PST
- 	 23 comments
4 dudes. At the same time.
Super Mario Bros. 1, 2, 3, and Famicon Super Mario Bros.
being beaten at the same time, using one controller for all four games simultaneously.
Mega Man 3, 4, 5, and 6
being beaten at the same time, using one controller.
Mega Man X and X2
at the same time.
Final Fantasy V and VI (warning: 4 hours long) .
[ more inside ] posted by
0xFCAF
at 1:07 PM PST
- 	 66 comments
If you see a hundred jellies, keep going. If you see a thousand jellies, keep going. If you see a million jellies, stop - you're there.
Head some 500 miles (800 km) east of the Philippines or 2,000 miles (3,200 km) south of Tokyo, and you'll find
Palau , an
island nation
in
the Pacific Ocean . Amongst the
Rock Islands of Palau
is a vaguely Y-shaped uninhabited island, called
Mecherchar
or
Eil Malk , which includes a number of marine lakes. One of the more astounding lakes is
Ongeim'l Tketau
or
Jellyfish Lake , home to
millions of jellyfish
that
make daily migrations, tracking the sun .
[ more inside ] posted by
filthy light thief
at 1:02 PM PST
- 	 20 comments
Osada Osada
is an "interactive music video" from the creators of
Machinarium . posted by
brundlefly
at 12:51 PM PST
- 	 9 comments
Civil war in Cote d'Ivoire
" War has returned
to the
Ivory Coast
in the guise of
massacres ,
mercenaries ,
a besieged capital , and
a humanitarian nightmare ." Several months after incumbent Laurent Gbagbo
stole the presidential election , the conflict in Cote d'Ivoire has
escalated
as the forces of rightful president Alassane Ouattara
have reached Abidjan
to
force Gbagbo's surrender .
[ more inside ] posted by
lullaby
at 12:39 PM PST
- 	 22 comments
Something is happening in our world: Memphis, Cairo, Madison
Something is happening in our world.
The masses of people are rising up. And wherever they are assembled today, whether they are in Johannesburg, South Africa; Nairobi, Kenya; Accra, Ghana; New York City; Atlanta, Georgia; Jackson, Mississippi; or Memphis, Tennessee -- the cry is always the same:
"We want
to
be free."
Forty-three years ago today, a man was killed while
protecting workers' rights to bargain collectively. posted by
orthogonality
at 12:35 PM PST
- 	 54 comments
More like "Motels with Elaine"
Steinbeck's American-road-trip classic
Travels With Charley: In Search of America ? Yeah,
mostly b.s.
[ more inside ] posted by
gottabefunky
at 11:51 AM PST
- 	 50 comments
Watch out, Gaga -- there's a new Lady in town.
With the assertion that her
"Pussy Be Yankin',"
21-year-old
Lady
arrives on a scene set years ago by the likes of
Lil Kim , in which female MC's tug back against the male dominance of
a sub-genre
by explicitly asserting their own sexual prowess -- a tradition some find
liberating
and others consider
degrading . posted by
hermitosis
at 11:26 AM PST
- 	 141 comments
It's raining bytes
As
Amazon and the RIAA go head to head over the Amazon Cloud Player
(esentially Dropbox with streaming) it seems like a good time to recap
the turbulent history of the humble MP3 , upender of the music industry business model. posted by
Artw
at 10:32 AM PST
- 	 83 comments
don't take it personally, babe, it just ain't your story
Seven students, three endings, one eavesdropping teacher.
don't take it personally, babe, it just ain't your story
is a full length digital novel by the writer of
Digital: A Love Story . Luscious high-school drama with a delicious sprinkle of social network navel-gazing. posted by
The Devil Tesla
at 9:52 AM PST
- 	 16 comments
Spiders are wonderful Spiders are wonderful
[via
mefi projects ] posted by
odinsdream
at 9:39 AM PST
- 	 111 comments
Venice, how does it work?
How does Venice work?
Short Vimeo documentary on the practicalities of Venice's architecture and civil engineering. More at
Venice Backstage . posted by
fearfulsymmetry
at 9:13 AM PST
- 	 25 comments
This is how to do policy consultation responses Rap attack:
six hundred clause Health and Social Care Bill 2011 eviscerated in three minutes by amateur rapper
[ more inside ] posted by
dmt
at 8:55 AM PST
- 	 29 comments
State Governance For Fun and Profit Rick Scott is taking aim at public hospitals in Florida.
Former private hospital executive and current Florida governor Rick Scott recently
established a commission to conduct a study into the possibility of privatizing all public hospitals in the State of Florida . Scott, a multi-millionaire who made his fortune as chief executive of
Columbia/HCA , a large private hospital chain with a significant market presence in Florida, was previously implicated in the US's largest medicare fraud settlement involving Columbia/HCA under his leadership. Although the terms of the settlement did not charge Scott specifically with any wrongdoing, both
whistleblowers
and
federal officials
party to the investigation have reported that Scott was closely involved in determining the illegal business practices that led to the fraud allegations.
[ more inside ] posted by
saulgoodman
at 8:01 AM PST
- 	 109 comments
Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Plant Hi-Res Photos
The long running "eyeball" series from noted cryptography and information freedom site
Cryptome
[ many previously ] hosts hi-res photos of the Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear site
taken from a UAV
and
inside the stricken plant .
Also eyeball shots of other Japanese nuclear reactors . posted by
T.D. Strange
at 7:28 AM PST
- 	 51 comments
"It is hovering and it's not an aircraft."
On October 21, 1978, 20-year-old
Frederick Valentich
climbed into his Cessna 182L airplane and took off from Moorabbin Airport in Melbourne.
He was never seen again.
[ more inside ] posted by
Rangeboy
at 5:13 AM PST
- 	 175 comments
"Genetic engineers don't make new genes, they rearrange existing ones." The Xenotext Experiment
is
Christian Bök 's [ Previously ],"nine-year long attempt to create an example of “living poetry.” I have been striving to write a short verse about language and genetics, whereupon I use a “chemical alphabet” to translate this poem into a sequence of DNA for subsequent implantation into the genome of a bacterium (in this case, a microbe called Deinococcus radiodurans—an extremophile, capable of surviving, without mutation, in even the most hostile milieus, including the vacuum of outer space)."
[Via]
[ more inside ] posted by
Fizz
at 5:07 AM PST
- 	 25 comments
Decluttering with IKEA
"It is no mean achievement that IKEA has continued to embody in the public mind the modernist ideals of simplicity and minimalism yet all the while its total product range has been growing – to the point where, by 2010, it comprised some 12,000 items."
Decluttering with IKEA
asks: What are we looking for as we wander through IKEA?
[ more inside ] posted by
harriet vane
at 3:09 AM PST
- 	 167 comments
April 3 James Murphy Is Playing At My House Final LCD Soundsystem concert in its entirety.
[3hrs 41mins] posted by
gwint
at 11:50 PM PST
- 	 56 comments
Clothing of the futcha. Designers from 70 years ago predict the fashion trends in the year 2000.
[ more inside ] posted by
sweetkid
at 10:58 PM PST
- 	 73 comments
You Know They Got a Hell of a Band
Stephen King and John Mellencamp will debut their long-awaited Southern gothic musical 'Ghost Brothers Of Darkland County' next year.
The story concerns the deaths of three people in Atlanta in 1957 and the CD will have songs by Kris Kristofferson, Elvis Costello, Neko Case, Meg Ryan, and Matthew McConaughey. King is also
working on the 8th Dark Tower book, 'The Wind Through the Keyhole',
which is due next year. posted by
Lovecraft In Brooklyn
at 10:15 PM PST
- 	 48 comments
This spring: Winter is Coming
HBO has a free
15 minute preview up for their adaptation of George R. R. Martin's fantasy series A Game of thrones .
The folks over at Westeros.org have seen rough copies of the first six episodes and report on them.
In general, reviews are very positive so far.
Previously on the Blue.
Via
this thread at hipinion.
Bonus:
Next Media Animation briefs you on the subject.
All links contain minor-to-major spoilers. posted by
codacorolla
at 8:24 PM PST
- 	 104 comments
You're Doing It All Wrong! You're Doing It All Wrong
A collection of How-To cooking videos from Chow.com. posted by
ColdChef
at 7:38 PM PST
- 	 46 comments
No one is condoning the crime, but... Decades after school bus kidnapping, strong feelings in Chowchilla.
'Thirty-five years ago in Chowchilla, Calif., three young men from upscale families kidnapped a bus full of children and their driver and buried them in a quarry. Some of the officials who put the culprits in prison are calling for their parole — a sore point for many residents.'
[ more inside ] posted by
VikingSword
at 7:07 PM PST
- 	 149 comments
Monday, 9:00 AM. Briefing meeting with Deparment Research Team Thirty-Two. The Department.
Regular listeners to The Bugle ( previously ) will have been missing their usual weekly dose of historico-politico-silliness. But there is a fallback.
[ more inside ] posted by
benito.strauss
at 4:53 PM PST
- 	 10 comments
Nawaat Nawaat
, a Tunisian group blog (mostly in French). posted by
nangar
at 4:15 PM PST
- 	 3 comments
The Ramones Live: 26 Songs In 54 Minutes
The Ramones Live: 26 Songs In 54 Minutes . Recorded at the Palladium, NYC, January 7, 1978. posted by
milquetoast
at 4:15 PM PST
- 	 79 comments
Space Jam Flute jam aboard the International Space Station [SLYT]
[ more inside ] posted by
inedible
at 3:22 PM PST
- 	 45 comments
Don't Ask, Don't Tell, Don't Discharge
After chalking up 14,316 military discharges to its credit ( 261 from the last year alone ), the reign of Don't Ask Don't Tell crumbled when Petty Officer 2nd Class Derek Morado's DADT-motivated hearing ended on Thursday with
the three member panel voting unanimously to retain the openly gay soldier . posted by
hippybear
at 2:33 PM PST
- 	 43 comments
Vladimir Nabokov Vladimir Nabokov exhumed in video
posted by
puny human
at 1:13 PM PST
- 	 31 comments
Half a Century of Hope Amnesty International
is 50 years old this year. It was started in 1961 by a British Lawyer,
Peter Beneson
and in
1977
was awarded the
Nobel Peace Prize . Here are some of the
50 years of Posters
and the latest
Amnesty Report 2010
The Secret Policemans's Ball
was a long running charity event to support Amnesty. Featuring some of Britains' best comedians and Musicians.
Remember the Secret Policeman's Ball
1 ;
2 ;
3 ;
4 ;
5 ;
6 ;
7 ;
8 ;
9 ; posted by
adamvasco
at 1:01 PM PST
- 	 12 comments
Talk Whedon to me, baby. Nerdgasm [SLYT].
[ more inside ] posted by
whimsicalnymph
at 12:39 PM PST
- 	 177 comments
好一朵美丽的茉莉花
As words of a
Jasmine Revolution
started circulating online, several Chinese dissidents
were disappeared , including the activist and lawyer
Teng Biao .
Today, Chinese artist Ai Weiwei
was detained , along with
several of his staff . posted by
klue
at 12:35 PM PST
- 	 27 comments
Sweet Scent of Freedom Sold Seperately
Some people have claimed that Barbie is really about giving girls the image of an empowered woman.
There can be little doubt of empowerment when it comes to
Black Moses Barbie
-
she fights for freedom
and has all the coolest playsets and accessories. posted by
yeloson
at 11:37 AM PST
- 	 9 comments
And if this old world starts a getting you down, there's room enough for two - up on the roof
At the
University of Southern California,
in the spring, a young man's fancy lightly turns to thoughts of love…making
atop the roof
of the campus' Waite Phillips Hall.
Photos of the tryst
went
*cough*
"viral" this week, and in the aftermath of the incident, the male
Kappa Sigma
member has
gone into hiding.
Web forum Hipinion checks in with some
Photoshop re-interpretations of the couple's romp.
posted by
porn in the woods
at 11:32 AM PST
- 	 129 comments
The Weeknd
Unsigned 20-year-old R&B singer the Weeknd is what all the
cool
kids
are
talking
about . Plus he gives away his music for
free . posted by
JPowers
at 11:21 AM PST
- 	 36 comments
It turns out the future doesn't really care about space travel.
Cory Doctorow's new science fiction story collection,
With A Little Help , is available in text and
audio . The stories range from an order of datamining monks to Google gone terrible wrong, and the readers include Neil Gaiman, Mur Lafferty, Mary Robinette Kowal and Wil Wheaton. The introduction is written by Jonathan Coulton. posted by
NoraReed
at 10:35 AM PST
- 	 97 comments
Peeling back the layers.
Animated Anatomies
is a new exhibition from Duke University Special Collections that examines the beautiful intricacies of anatomical flap books.
[ more inside ] posted by
Horace Rumpole
at 8:10 AM PST
- 	 7 comments
By the power of . . . you know what, never mind, that's a terrible pun
Skeletor Saves
[NSFW]: a New York City art show based on artists' memories of He-Man and the Masters of the Universe, to benefit the Ali Forney Center for homeless LGBT youth.
( Gawker. )
But this is no mere set of rasterbations from DeviantArt accounts.
The abstract ( Skeletor's Universe,
Teela ); the photographic ( She-Man ), the sculptural ( Keldor's Mirror ); the outsider-art style ( Series of 6 Pappteller Paintings ); and, of course, that which cannot be unseen ( The Seduction of He-Man .) posted by
Countess Elena
at 7:49 AM PST
- 	 13 comments
The Good The Bad The Hot
'030' , from the album 'From 001 To 017' by The Good The Bad; SLVimeo; 3.30, totally NSFW. Download track at
A Girl Called '030' ;
blog here . posted by
bwg
at 5:17 AM PST
- 	 35 comments
Cannabis culture Cannabis Culture
posted by
twoleftfeet
at 5:00 AM PST
- 	 59 comments
Shakespeare and Verlander Why are we [U.S.A.] so good at developing athletes and so lousy at developing writers?
excerpted from sportswriter Bill James's book Solid Fool's Gold: Detours on the Way to Conventional Wisdom. Via: [slate.com]
posted by
Fizz
at 4:46 AM PST
- 	 105 comments
Kissinger on von Bismarck Henry Kissinger on Otto von Bismarck
Von Bismarck was
a formidable 19th century German statesman . via
thebrowser . posted by
joost de vries
at 2:42 AM PST
- 	 37 comments
April 2 interspecies friendships
A girl and her dog play a board game together
|
a man and the goose who loves him
|
a girl and her lamb named Bee
|
a sheep and dog play tag
| rabbit and cat (the aww at :58)
|
Snaggle Puss and baby bunny
|
duckling feeds carp .
[ more inside ] posted by
nickyskye
at 10:49 PM PST
- 	 35 comments
Stetsons are cool!
The BBC has
released the trailer for the new season of Doctor Who
and revealed the
title of Neil Gaiman's episode.
. posted by
Lovecraft In Brooklyn
at 10:09 PM PST
- 	 103 comments
Muzzle the Defense The chances that a powerful person will make an error are much greater than those of a weak person.
Scott Horton translates
Benjamin Constant , references
Robespierre , and offers insight on modern efforts to preclude meaningful trials in federal court.
[ more inside ] posted by
fartknocker
at 8:54 PM PST
- 	 20 comments
Baez/Yudkowsky
John Baez (mathematical physicist and master popularizer, former operator of This Week's Finds in Mathematical Physics, current promoter of the idea that
physicists should start pitching in on saving the world ) interviews Eliezer Yudkowsky (singularitarian, author of
"Harry Potter and the Methods of Rationality,"
promoter of the idea that human life faces a near-term existential threat from unfriendly artificial intelligence, and that people can live better lives by evading their cognitive biases) about the future, academia, rationality, altruism, expected utility, self-improvement by humans and machines, and the relative merit of battling climate change and developing friendly AIs that will forstall our otherwise inevitable doom.
Part I .
Part II.
Part III.
[ more inside ] posted by
escabeche
at 8:43 PM PST
- 	 47 comments
Afghanis riot over Terry Jones' Koran-burning kill 20
A 2nd day
of riots in Afghanistan over
Rev. Terry Jones's
trial and
execution-by-burning
of a
Quran leaves a total death total of 20, with at least 80 injuries, including 7 UN aid workers. Thousands participated in the riots across the country. "I don't think we should be blaming any Afghan. We should be blaming the person who produced the news — the one who burned the Quran," stated the top U.N. envoy in Afghanistan,
Staffan de Mistura . Others
defend Jones's right to free speech . ( previously ) posted by
shivohum
at 8:35 PM PST
- 	 227 comments
Revolutionology
Revolutionology
is the blog of a sociologist in Libya. posted by
serazin
at 7:32 PM PST
- 	 5 comments
Nifty Audio Projects Nifty audio projects
from Paris Smaragdis, including fascinating method of extracting individual audio samples (say a guitar solo) from a mix by
humming the part. [6.4 mb mp4]
[via AskMe] posted by
odinsdream
at 6:43 PM PST
- 	 12 comments
Laundering Drug Money
At the height of the 2008 banking crisis, Antonio Maria Costa, then head of the United Nations office on drugs and crime, said he had evidence to suggest the proceeds from drugs and crime were "the only liquid investment capital" available to banks on the brink of collapse. "Inter-bank loans were funded by money that originated from the drugs trade," he said. "There were signs that some banks were rescued that way."
How a big US bank laundered billions from Mexico's murderous drug gangs
[ more inside ] posted by
The Emperor of Ice Cream
at 5:12 PM PST
- 	 30 comments
Deadlift
"I happen to believe that the deadlift is a most beneficial exercise for men and women and
athletes of both sexes of all ages
... The deadlift is not only a useful exercise to help build greater hip, leg, and back strength, it’s a movement everyone needs to know how to do properly because it will be done in some form or fashion countless times in a lifetime." Legendary strength coach
Bill Starr
writes about the deadlift, just as 27-year-old
Benedikt Magnusson
sets a new world record with a lift of
1015 pounds . posted by
Anatoly Pisarenko
at 4:32 PM PST
- 	 99 comments
Command decision How Slavery Really Ended in America
On May 23, 1861, little more than a month into the Civil War, three young black men rowed across the James River in Virginia and claimed asylum in a Union-held citadel.... [T]the laws of the United States were clear: all fugitives must be returned to their masters. The founding fathers enshrined this in the Constitution; Congress reinforced it in 1850 with the Fugitive Slave Act; and it was still the law of the land — including, as far as the federal government was concerned, within the so-called Confederate states. The war had done nothing to change it. Most important, noninterference with slavery was the very cornerstone of the Union’s war policy. President Abraham Lincoln had begun his inaugural address by making this clear, pointedly and repeatedly. “I have no purpose, directly or indirectly, to interfere with the institution of slavery in the states where it exists,” the president said. “I believe I have no lawful right to do so, and I have no inclination to do so.”
[ more inside ] posted by
caddis
at 2:23 PM PST
- 	 95 comments
A cat may look at a king. English proverbs and their origins.
[ more inside ] posted by
Brian B.
at 11:49 AM PST
- 	 22 comments
Urban art fun
I like urban art fun with a sense of humor:
OakOak
is a french artist who likes to play with urban elements. posted by
Waslijn
at 11:37 AM PST
- 	 9 comments
Gianmarco Magnani illustration: Silence Television Gianmarco Magnani draws girls, guitars and motorcycles.
posted by
Tom-B
at 10:49 AM PST
- 	 25 comments
A Black Scholar Gone Manning Marrable is dead.
Author of a controversial biography of Malcolm X , he was a Marxist professor who wrote regular columns such as
this one.
Unfortunately, manningmarable.net, a collection of his columns, is no longer up, but he was an influential scholar ( Mandatory Wikipedia Link ).
[ more inside ] posted by
kozad
at 9:32 AM PST
- 	 23 comments
Cantata 147
Melodic wooden sculpture plays Bach in the forest . [3m5s]
(Final 25 seconds are advertising and can be skipped.) posted by
hippybear
at 8:48 AM PST
- 	 38 comments
Sbarro is out of dough
With
$365 million in debt , mall food court Italian restaurant chain Sbarro has
filed for Chapter 11.
With nearly
1,000 restaurants in 30 countries , this could impact lovers of congealed pizza everywhere. Let's take a
look back
at some
happier moments
in the chain's lifespan. posted by
porn in the woods
at 6:05 AM PST
- 	 259 comments
If I had known then what I know now, the Goldstone Report would have been a different document.
Richard Goldstone reconsiders his report on the Gaza war of 2008-2009.
[ more inside ] posted by
beisny
at 3:44 AM PST
- 	 246 comments
Simon Tookome, artist and whipper
" I'm proud of being recognized as an artist, but I really want to be known as someone with a special talent for the whip ." Simon Tookoome, who passed away last year, was justly celebrated as an artist in his lifetime. You can view 39 of his pieces in
The Canadian Art Database
(including my favorite of his, the sculpture
Shaman Wolf ). But whipping was closer to his heart, and in his prime may have been the world's greatest whipper. Sadly, I could find no video of him from before 2000 on the internet, but
here he is at 72 . You can read a description of him at his peak in
this condescending Time article about the 1972 Arctic Winter Games . And you can watch a few more Simon Tookoome videos
here . posted by
Kattullus
at 12:17 AM PST
- 	 10 comments
I blue myself
It's like
Evolution of Dance —a collection of kicky songs, just substitute dancing for the tribal drumming of a self-crafted PVC pipe instrument.
19 songs in 8 minutes .
[ more inside ] posted by
Taft
at 12:01 AM PST
- 	 12 comments
April 1 "Survival, Strength, Sisterhood", a short film.
Survival, Strength, Sisterhood: Power of Women in the Downtown Eastside
(Vimeo link; possibly triggering) is a 2011 short film by Alejandro Zuluaga and Harsha Walia, based on a concept by the Downtown Eastside Power of Women Group (TRT 32:00).
[ more inside ] posted by
simulacra
at 11:48 PM PST
- 	 8 comments
Nunavut
The Trials of Nunavut:
Has Canada created a northern Haiti?
Despite hundreds of millions of dollars a year spent via Indian and Northern Affairs Canada, the Nunavut government, and many other federal agencies, we have the following situation:
[ more inside ] posted by
thewalrus
at 10:09 PM PST
- 	 77 comments
PROTIP: Don't Get Caught G4TV.com, GamePro, and VGChartz GamrFeed have been abusing multiple accounts to spam and manipulate Reddit for months.
Via Game Journalists Are Incompetent Fuckwits.
posted by
Lovecraft In Brooklyn
at 9:30 PM PST
- 	 33 comments
A Manhattan Microstudio
She adored New York City. She idolized it all out of proportion. Sure, she paid
$700 for a 90-square-foot microstudio , but New York was her town, and it always would be ( via ). posted by
JPowers
at 8:52 PM PST
- 	 150 comments
Mahna Mahna!
A tragically funny (or amusingly tragic) execution.
[SLYT] posted by
Hactar
at 8:18 PM PST
- 	 37 comments
Related: Before @aplusk became a Twitter star, he did a TV show called "PUNK'D" TweetForger
is the Ultimate Twitter Tool, creating webpages that look like Tweets from
anybody
who has a
Twitter
account
with messages that you provide. Think of it as putting 140 characters into somebody else's mouth. ( but with a flagging option for those who are not amused ) Perfect for the waning hours of
April Fools Day .
[ more inside ] posted by
oneswellfoop
at 7:42 PM PST
- 	 8 comments
Officer Bubbles! Constable Adam Josephs of the Toronto Police
is now known across the internet as "Officer Bubbles" for his
questionable
shenanigans
during the recent
G20 summit protests .
He
is now
suing YouTube
for hosting
videos
related to in incident. posted by
long haired child
at 6:59 PM PST
- 	 42 comments
"We are hot chicks with big cameras.
We don't need talent"
Photographers are beginning to
fight back
against the
race to the bottom
in their craft. Witness these ( painfully
true )
scenarios .
[ more inside ] posted by
pjern
at 6:55 PM PST
- 	 63 comments
HUGLAGHALGHALGHAL
You might expect a jokey April 1 press release announcing
Comic Sans Pro
is yet another
seasonal
prank . Yet
here
it
is , as little as $35 per face or $120 for the whole family. posted by
ardgedee
at 4:29 PM PST
- 	 36 comments
Hidrodentitis and Halitosis and Hilarious
Embarassing Bodies , your one-stop clinical revulsion shop!
Is it painful? And does it ooze? Pus and blood? Yep, that sounds nasty.
[warning: NASTY]
[ more inside ] posted by
Ambrosia Voyeur
at 4:12 PM PST
- 	 23 comments
Use Cheap Vodka
"The
Bloody Mary
has been called
the world's most complex cocktail , and from the standpoint of
flavor chemistry , you've got a blend of hundreds of flavor compounds that act on the taste senses. It covers almost the entire range of human taste sensations --
sweet, salty, sour and umami or savory
-- but not bitter."
Research
that's part of the
International Year of Chemistry . posted by
chavenet
at 3:00 PM PST
- 	 146 comments
Tigers on Surfboards TigersOnSurfboards.com
is now live! posted by
mr_roboto
at 2:42 PM PST
- 	 30 comments
Happy Friday Fun Flash(back) Day!
This year marks a decade of
Strong Bad Emails , sent from Strong Bad's desk. Next to his computer sits a box of
floppy discs , often displaying game titles. If you missed those titles, the detail-oriented
Homestar Runner wiki
( previously )
provides game titles, summaries, and links . Many of the games are old computer games like
Rise of the Dragon
or
Miner 2049er , and some titles are linked to
Lord_Pall 's
revived Home of the Underdogs
abandonware game archive. Other games have links to
the Videlectrix catalog , where you can see
box art
and
play some demos . Or you can go back to the Homestar Runner wiki, and go to the list of
playable Videlectrix titles , like
50k Racewalker
( play online )
Polulation: Tire
( play online ) or
Peasant's Quest
( play online ) (More previous stuff:
Peasant's Quest
and
Where's An Egg? ). posted by
filthy light thief
at 2:24 PM PST
- 	 83 comments
Mark Romanek's favourite new video
Yoann Lemoine
has directed a
video for
Iron , a song he composed and recorded as
Woodkid ; among its fans,
Mark Romanek .
[ more inside ] posted by
progosk
at 1:38 PM PST
- 	 7 comments
Do You Have What It Takes to Find the Future?
"The New York Public Library launched a
website
Friday to introduce a massive, smartphone-based scavenger hunt that will officially kick off May 20 with an invitation-only, all-night lock-in in New York City. The game, which will continue through 2011, works by getting players to download an app for their iPhone or Android-based smartphones and then head to the library's
Stephen A. Schwarzman
building, which celebrates its centennial this year, to play (folks not near New York can play a digital version on the Web)." *
[ more inside ] posted by
ericb
at 1:05 PM PST
- 	 12 comments
HOLLYWOOD SHADOWS A cure for blocked screenwriters
"Michels also told the writer to get an egg timer. Following Michels’s instructions, every day he set it for one minute, knelt in front of his computer in a posture of prayer, and begged the universe to help him write the worst sentence ever written. When the timer dinged, he would start typing. He told Michels that the exercise was stupid, pointless, and embarrassing, and it didn’t work. Michels told him to keep doing it." posted by
puny human
at 12:46 PM PST
- 	 43 comments
Be sure to get the optional Line Pack to simulate your own exciting Apple product launches. Awesome mini Apple Store tugs at your wallet.
PLAYMOBIL TM
introduces your children to the magic of Apple; includes store, figures, and 60+ accessories. Use your own real iPhone 4 as the screen behind Steve Jobs in the Keynote Theater.
[ more inside ] posted by
kipmanley
at 12:06 PM PST
- 	 43 comments
Medicine: Back to the Middle Ages Welcome to a world where the drugs don't work - it's here, today.
'A new wave of "super superbugs" with a mutation called NDM 1, which first emerged in India, has now turned up all over the world, from Britain to New Zealand.''After Alexander Fleming's 1928 discovery of the first antibiotic, penicillin, we quickly came to assume we had the chemicals to beat bacteria. Sure, bugs evolve to develop resistance. But for decades scientists have managed to develop new medicines to stay at least one step ahead of an ever-mutating enemy. Now, though, we may be running out of road.'
[ more inside ] posted by
VikingSword
at 11:59 AM PST
- 	 77 comments
Wheel of Jeopardy!
Exactly fourteen years ago, the day's episodes of
Wheel of Fortune
( Part 2 ) and
Jeopardy!
( Part 2 ,
Part 3 ) seemed slightly different somehow. posted by
kmz
at 11:35 AM PST
- 	 22 comments
We're all doomed.
The New Garage Explosion: A full length documentary by VBS-TV
[ more inside ] posted by
Potomac Avenue
at 11:03 AM PST
- 	 21 comments
Koch-funded study confirms global warming
Koch-funded study confirms global warming .
[ more inside ] posted by
russilwvong
at 10:47 AM PST
- 	 63 comments
Cooking with Google "The more Google's scientists refine search algorithms, the more they manipulate the results, even unconsciously.
When you search Google for a recipe now, you get steered towards something with low calories that can be made quickly". An interesting post about how Google's search results can be seen as "promot[ing] a cooking culture focused on speed and diets. " posted by
hepta
at 10:09 AM PST
- 	 98 comments
Slutwalk Reclaiming the Slut
walk
is happening in Toronto this weekend (swf). posted by
SylviaAspevig
at 10:01 AM PST
- 	 58 comments
You know, if one paints someone's portrait, one should not know him if possible.
"It is my wish to come very close, strikingly close, to the times in which we live, without submitting to artistic dogma... I need the connection to the world of senses, the courage to portray ugliness, life as it comes."
Otto Dix
best known for his Weimar era work such as the now
lost
Street Fight .
Probably his most well know portraits are of the
uninhibited
dancer
Anita Berber
and of the
writer
and poet
Sylvia von Harden .
Here are a
couple
of Galleries of
his work
and a six part video on Dix:
Postcards from the front
1 ;
2 ;
3 ;
4 ;
5 ;
6 ; posted by
adamvasco
at 9:53 AM PST
- 	 9 comments
Inside a dog, it's difficult to operate a mobile scanning device. Books2Barcodes
is an ongoing effort to convert all the world's great books to QR codes (2D barcodes). Each work featured here is the entire text of a piece of classic literature translated into several thousand barcodes. With a mobile device equipped with a camera and a barcode-scanning app, you can experience the joy of a great book as read through 800-character fragments on your cellphone. posted by
Wolfdog
at 9:22 AM PST
- 	 27 comments
Ever since the local American Apparel closed it’s been impossible to find any ironic tees within biking distance. Sourcebits Launches The Hipster’s Companion, a Guide to Making Your Life Better.
Finally, the app that lets you prove just how much better you are than everyone else without even having to try.
This critical guide
will help users better their lives by replacing their totally lame everyday tasks with hipster-approved alternatives.
[ more inside ] posted by
Servo5678
at 8:27 AM PST
- 	 154 comments
Very Nearly ADD I Always Wondered.
A light-hearted outlet for curiosity. posted by
netbros
at 8:25 AM PST
- 	 9 comments
Hardcore History
It's
Hardcore History
with Dan Carlin, arguably the most intense amateur history podcast you'll run across today. Catch the
Ghosts of the Ostfront
series ( 1 2 3 4 ) before it slips behind the paywall, and indulge in the epic of the fall of Rome in
Death Throes of the Republic
( 1 2 3 4 5 ). posted by
klue
at 8:21 AM PST
- 	 52 comments
Tech Support For Everyone
showmewhatswrong .
downforeveryoneorjustme .
LetMeGoogleThatForYou . posted by
Bora Horza Gobuchul
at 8:07 AM PST
- 	 25 comments
Songs of Spring, Boys of Summer
Talkin' Baseball :
Cali ,
Cardinals ,
Giants ,
Mets ,
Red Sox ,
Tigers ,
Twins ,
Yankees ,
The Simpsons softball .
[ more inside ] posted by
IvoShandor
at 7:24 AM PST
- 	 44 comments
"Now tell me, which one of these dogs would you want to have as your wide receiver on your football team?"
Ren Netherland takes photographs of animals at 'creative grooming' shows across the US
(warning: horrible, horrible use of Flash). Via
The Daily Mail
(warning: The Daily Mail). posted by
jonnyploy
at 7:23 AM PST
- 	 6 comments
Decorah Eagles Watch Bald Eagle eggs hatch (live stream).
The Raptor Resource Project brings you the Decorah Eagles from atop their tree at the fish hatchery in Decorah, Iowa. The eggs are supposed to hatch any time today. posted by
leigh1
at 6:41 AM PST
- 	 139 comments
How much is a Noble Laureate worth? Snooki's worth more than Toni Morrison, apparently.
Toni Morrison is scheduled to deliver this year's Rutger Univerisity commencement speech, for a sum of
$30,000 .
The same school recently paid Snooki of
Jersey Shore
$32,000
to teach students how to fist pump, and to relay such advice as "study hard, but party harder." posted by
litnerd
at 6:34 AM PST
- 	 104 comments
That's all there is. There is no more.
About:Blank
can be considered an inevitability of one's online journeys, though many a virtual traveler can spend their time without ever encountering the phenomenon. Part of a vast
family
(but not to be confused with
any
other
similarily
named
personages ,
aliases ,
objects ,
paraphenalia ,
bound
published
texts ,
functions
or
any imitations thereof ), it has not been without its share of
jealous
detractors . Its very reputation was
nearly besmirched , yet remained largely benign compared to
more terrifying finds . Indeed, it continues to persevere, even in
analog form . posted by
Smart Dalek
at 5:57 AM PST
- 	 14 comments
IT'S GENDER-MUTABLE FRIDAY Y'ALL Rule 63: "There is always a female version of a male character" (and vice versa).
NSFW.
Not even
close
to safe for work.
Some helpful examples:
lady Predator .
Boy Lilith (from Darkstalkers) .
Sonic the Hedgehog's
Tails , but as a woman version of Tails, watching television in bed, and being sold products related to a good health. posted by
Greg Nog
at 5:31 AM PST
- 	 47 comments
Did a piss, Says he was dejected, Asks to be exonerated
How To Piss in Public
[SLYT—NSFW]. posted by
nfg
at 4:45 AM PST
- 	 43 comments
Crushing Creepy Crawlies
Freaky Friday Flash Fun, Flatting Flies:
Insectonator
is a top-down shooter. Well, "shooter" is a stretch; this is more of "stomp, drop things, overkill with naplam" attack on pretty much every homeowner's nightmare: a bunch of crawly bugs in the dark that avoid the flashlight.
The bugs don't shoot back, so the game is just an endurance test by the player. And there are two awards for actually sticking around long enough. Weapons include a rock, your boot, various guns (including sniper rifles), rocket launchers, an anvil, naplam, and finally, a nuclear weapon.
Via the ever excellent
Jay Is Games . posted by
Old'n'Busted
at 4:45 AM PST
- 	 7 comments
We get to see how the 60s ends!
After some tough negotiations ,
AMC and Mad Men creator Matthew Weiner
have
come to an agreement to resume production on the series , which has been
renewed for two - and possibly three - more seasons . posted by
crossoverman
at 2:58 AM PST
- 	 70 comments
A perpetual notion
Video
evidence
supports
the
possibility
of
perpetual
motion .
[ more inside ] posted by
twoleftfeet
at 2:37 AM PST
- 	 22 comments
Oh Google, you foolers Gmail Motion
by Google. Gmail for the Knect generation. posted by
00dimitri00
at 1:36 AM PST
- 	 59 comments
The cops are crashing the Fiesta.
A long investigation into the
Fiesta Bowl
has produced a long and damning
report (link goes to long PDF)
detailing a culture of corruption under CEO John Junker.
The report details gifts given to
lawmakers , college administrators and others to help boost the bowl's stature in college football.
[ more inside ] posted by
azpenguin
at 12:42 AM PST
- 	 18 comments
The real tragedy is that Ryan never got the voice mail. Love at First Sight, Quite possibly the worst case of drunk dialing ever to reach the internet.
Ryan Responds spoof. posted by
Felex
at 12:04 AM PST
- 	 34 comments
About MetaFilter
MetaFilter is a weblog that anyone can contribute a link or a comment to. A typical weblog is one person posting their thoughts on the unique things they find on the web. This website exists to break down the barriers between people, to extend a weblog beyond just one person, and to foster discussion among its members.
Sites
MetaFilter
AskMeFi
FanFare
Projects
Music
Jobs
IRL
MetaTalk
Best Of
Podcast
Links
Home
FAQ
About
Archives
Tags
Popular
Random
Wiki
Search
Chat
Labs
Members
Sign Up
Log In
Search MetaFilter…
Fund MetaFilter
Join 3,935 readers in helping fund MetaFilter
Contact Us
© 1999–2015 MetaFilter Network Inc.
All posts copyright their original authors.
Classic Theme .