Majorca 2010 – Day 5 - pencer.org
Skip to posts
Contact Us
Travel Diaries Index
pencer.org
Travel diaries from around the world.
Home Holidays
Short Breaks
Days Out
Theme Parks
Walking
Previous Post
Next Post
Majorca 2010 – Day 5
22/09/2010 at 19:00
pencer
No comments
We got up at 09:00 hoping the skies would be clear so we could drive out on to the
Cap De Formentor . No luck today as it was really cloudy. So instead we stayed in
Port De Pollenca
and had a walk along the sea front towards the
marina
and
Pine Walk . We found a couple of new restaurants on the back streets that looked good. Then we went to the main square were the weekly market was in full flow. It was very busy with lots of interesting stalls selling food, drink and Mallorcan goods. After having a good look round we decided we’d come back and get some food for our lunch from here.
We walked back down to the front and then along to Café Daina where we sat at a table outside. It’s part of the Hotel Daina which looks like a really nice three star hotel. We had café con leche, white coffee, which cost €4 for two and they came with free biscuits. As usual the coffee tasted excellent, after we’d sat relaxing for a while we went back to the market.
We bought a big tub of mixed olives and gherkins for €6. At another stall we watched as a man with a super sharp knife skilfully sliced wafer thin strips of
Serrano ham
off a joint. This was fantastic value as we got a big pile of ham for only €5. In a restaurant this much would easily have cost €20. On the way back to the apartment we called in at the bakery Payares for a big baguette which cost €1.
Back at the apartment we laid all the food we’d just bought out on the balcony table, along with cheese and tomatoes we’d got from the supermarket the other day. We accompanied this with a nice glass of red wine to wash it down. This simple lunch was cheap but really tasty. The ham tasted really good, we were definitely going to go back there for more next week.
By the time we’d finished lunch it had been sunny for a couple of hours. It felt like it was going to be a warm afternoon so we had a walk down to the beach. It was fairly quiet with a lot of the sunbeds free so we picked a spot right near the sea. Two sunbeds and a parasol for the day cost €11. There’s several shower and toilet blocks along the back of the beach, these cost 50 cents to use. The sand was soft and warm, it looked clean and litter free. We had golden sand, a clear blue sea right in front of us, and comfy sunbeds. This was going to be a great afternoon as long as the sun stayed out.
The sun was warm but not too hot. After a little while we had a dip in the sea. It was fairly cold but not too bad and we soon dried off on our sunbeds. I read some more of my book
Goats from a Small Island: Grabbing Mallorcan Life by the Horns , which was turning out to be a really good read. After spending all afternoon on the beach we headed back to the apartment at 17:00.
We relaxed for a while then got ready to go out for food and drinks. Just after 19:00 we walked down to the sea front and called in Snack Bar Tamarells. It was a bit busier than when we’d been in here the other night. We had two small beers which cost €3.80. It was still warm after the sunny afternoon so we sat outside at a table right on the beach looking out to sea.
After that drink we had a leisurely stroll to Pine Walk at the other end of town. We stopped at Bar Miramar which was part of the
Hotel Miramar . This was another nice looking hotel, one that we’d happily stay at if we came again. We had a couple of small beers which cost €4. So far we’ve been really happy with the beers served at the bars and restaurants we’ve visited. This was no exception with the
Estrella Damm
tasting very clean and fresh.
Once we’d drank up we had a walk to the main square and tried an upstairs bar above a restaurant called the BBQ Lounge. They were serving cocktails so we had one for a change. I had a
Bloody Mary
and Bec had a
Pina Colada . I really liked mine, it was extra spice with sweet chilli as well as the usual ingredients. Slightly expensive at €13 for the two but worth it. We’ll definitely be coming back for more on another night.
By now we were getting pretty hungry so we walked back down to the marina. Then along the front to Los Faroles Restaurant. It was quite busy with a lot of tables taken so we sat inside. We had the usual bread and olives, bottle of house red and another of still water. For starters we shared Padron peppers and octopus Galician style. We both love Padron peppers so we’re really happy that lots of places are serving them. For the main course I had monkfish and hake, it came with a big prawn on top,
some mussels in a sauce and a couple of potatoes. Bec had grilled turbot, this was a genorous portion with three decent sized pieces. It came with carrots and two potatoes. We’ve noticed that you don’t seem to get many vegetables with the meals. My monkfish was pretty good especially the sauce it came in but Bec’s turbot was a bit bland. The restaurant itself was nice, the service fast and the waiters friendly. Overall it wasn’t a bad meal but probably our least favourite so far. When the bill came we were reasonably happy at total cost of around €60.
Once the meal was over we had a slow walk back to the apartment where there was a bottle of red wine waiting for us.
What Next?
See more pictures from
this day on Flickr .
Follow our journey on
Day Six .
Go to the
Travel Diaries Index
page for a list of all days.
Holidays
Majorca ,
Port De Pollenca
Comments (0)
Trackbacks (0)
Leave a comment
Trackback
No one has commented yet.
No trackbacks yet.
Leave a Comment
Cancel Reply
Your comment
Subscribe to comments
Leave comment
Previous Post
Next Post
Post Comments Posts by
pencer Latest Posts Latest Comments
Recent Posts
York 2011 – Day 3
York 2011 – Day 2
York 2011 – Day 1
Whitby 2010 – Day 3
Whitby 2010 – Day 2
Whitby 2010 – Day 1
London 2010 – Day 4
London 2010 – Day 3
London 2010 – Day 2
London 2010 – Day 1
Archives
February 2011  (3)
January 2011  (1)
December 2010  (6)
October 2010  (2)
September 2010  (15)
August 2010  (3)
July 2010  (3)
June 2010  (8)
May 2010  (4)
April 2010  (5)
March 2010  (15)
Categories
Days Out
Holidays
Short Breaks
Theme Parks
Walking
Tags Alcudia
Asian Trails
Bukit Bintang
Burton Villa Guest House
Cascade Pool
Chinatown
Circular Walk
Cornwall
Derbyshire
Devon
Grand Beach Motel
Jalan Alor
Kilim Mangroves
KLIA
Kuala Lumpur
Langkawi
Lendal Bridge
Little Lylia's Chillout Cafe
London
Lynmouth
Majorca
Malaysia
Malaysian Airlines
Nasi Lemak
Newquay
Orkid Ria
Pantai Cenang
Pantai Tengah
Petronas Twin Towers
Port De Pollenca
Red Lion
Rose Tea 2
Snowdonia
South West Coast Path
Suria KLCC
The Fort Inn
The Shambles
The Welsh 3000's
Traders Hotel
Wales
Walking
Whitby
Wrexham
York
York Minster
© 2015 pencer.org
Design by
SRS Solutions