The Pony Club, Mount Lawley | The Food Pornographer
About
Work with me
Media/Press
Contact
About
Work with me
Media/Press
Contact
The Food Pornographer
Home
Restaurants
Travel
Events
Markets
Family and friends
Archives
The Pony Club, Mount Lawley
April 6th, 2010  /
No Comments »
/
6319  /    Like
Note: The Pony Club has closed permanently.
Birthday breakfast, Part 1
Jac took me to The Pony Club in Mount Lawley for my mystery birthday breakfast. It was a mystery because I had no idea where we were going until we got there. :)
If you’re not familiar with The Pony Club, it’s a restaurant – not a pony club! – that serves tapas-style dishes.
The Pony Club has recently started serving breakfast on weekends 7:00am – 11:30am.
The restaurant was quite empty when we arrived just before 9am, and we were invited to pick any table we liked.
I chose a table for two right by the window, where there’d be good natural light for taking photos.
“We can’t sit at that table – we need a table for four,” Jac told me.
“Well how would I know that?” I asked her indignantly. “You didn’t tell me anyone else was coming!”
She looked at me blankly for a moment, and we burst into laughter at the same time.
“Oh yeah… I didn’t, did I?” She said. Good one, Jac!
As we settled into a table for four, my sister Juji and her boyfriend Jay arrived.
Yep, good one, Jac! :D
We ordered a number of dishes to share.
We were all keen to try the tortilla de patatas, or potato omelette (AU$16). You can choose your omelette filled with manchego and chorizo or with Moroccan spiced vegetables – we chose manchego and chorizo.
The omelette was more French-style than Spanish-style in its presentation, but it was lovely, golden-brown on the outside, soft in the middle.
In hindsight, we should’ve ordered two omelettes, one with each type of filling.
More on that point later.
The other dish we all really liked the sound of was the glazed orange and lemon torrijas (French toast, AU$10).
I greedily inhaled the aroma of citrus and butter that rose off the plate when it was placed on our table.
It was a perfect serve for us to share – four thick slices of bread cut into hefty triangles. I couldn’t work out what looked more enticing, that shiny pool of orange sauce that I immediately wanted to dip my finger into, or the French toast that looked so soft and custardy in the middle.
We dipped our French toast into the dish of orange and lemon sauce. I was the last to eat my piece of French toast, so I poured sauce over it. There may have been a fingertip or two dipped in the sauce as well :P.
The French toast was just how I like it, buttery, eggy and custardy.
The thick slices of bread were surprisingly light, so soft in the middle they melted in the mouth, and absolutely beautiful with the citrus sauce, which was more tangy than sweet.
We also shared a serve of baked eggs with spiced chick peas and spinach (AU$14).
The baked spinach was shriveled and pretty tasteless – it really didn’t make a positive contribution to the flavour or texture to the dish. It was more like a poorly chosen garnish than a worthy component of the dish.
I thought the chick peas were quite dry, but they had a delicious spicy flavour and made a great side dish for the omelette.
There were a couple of eggs in the dish – unfortunately one egg yolk had already burst and cooked through.
The other egg looked pretty good, though I prefer my eggs to be even softer and more gooey.
We ordered a couple of sides as well: pancetta (AU$5) and sherry glazed mushrooms with goats curd (AU$5).
There’s something so pleasurable and satisfying in the tactile act of eating of pancetta. Whenever I see pancetta I am compelled to pick it up and tear it with my fingers.
I used my fork to lift strips of pancetta off the serving dish, but I used my fingers to tear them into smaller pieces that I popped into my mouth.
We all agreed we couldn’t really taste the sherry in the mushrooms – they were cooked to well-done and were soft rather than bouncy in texture. To me, they tasted good, but not distinctly mushroomy. Jac thought they’d been served a little on the cold side to begin with. The goats curd was creamy and delicious but its strong flavour pretty much overwhelmed the flavour of the mushrooms.
Our waiter brought us separate plates to eat with. Here’s my plate with a bit of each of the savoury dishes. It all tasted great together!
We also shared a fresh fruit plate with yoghurt and thyme honey (AU$12).
It was a nice selection of fruit: orange, apple, pear, watermelon, strawberries and figs.
The French toast’s orange and lemon sauce made a lovely dipping sauce for the fruit too.
Jac enjoyed her
Virgin Mary
very much. Jac absolutely loves tomato juice.
I’ve never been a fan of tomato juice – I prefer eating tomatoes to drinking them.
We were served sugar cubes with our tea and coffee. Here’s Juji’s flat white coffee sucking up a sugar cube. :)
The service wasn’t terrible, but it wasn’t outstanding either. I liked that the wait staff weren’t overly chatty, especially after they found out this was a birthday breakfast (thank goodness, no over-enthusiastic chit-chat about my birthday).
We were offered drinks when we first arrived, but no one followed up to see if we’d like another round of drinks.
Jac probably would’ve ordered another Virgin Mary, and I would’ve probably ordered another tea or a fresh orange juice if someone had come to take more drink orders.
The waiter who delivered our baked eggs told us he’d return with a spoon so we could more easily serve the dish up onto our individual plates. He never came back.
It wasn’t a big deal to use our forks, but it’s always nice if a waiter actually does what he or she promises to do.
Our table was cleared promptly; however, no one asked if we’d like anything else, not while clearing the table, and not afterwards.
Here’s the thing: we really enjoyed our meal but when all the food was finished we were still hungry.
Yes, we definitely should’ve ordered two omelettes and maybe another couple of dishes!
We talked about our options: order another round of food, or drive further up Beaufort Street and grab hot roast meat sandwiches at Mondo Butchers.
Juji and Jay have raved about the hot roast pork sandwiches before and Jac and I were pretty keen to try them out.
We may have been swayed to stay and order more of The Pony Club’s breakfast dishes had there been the opportunity to do so, but since no one returned to our table once it was cleared, we decided to leave and get roast meat sandwiches.
When I’m at a restaurant, I don’t think I should have to hail a waiter to get service. If no one makes the effort to check on me, I’ll leave without spending more money. Simple.
The breakfast dishes we tried were delicious, but if you like going out for a big breakfast, don’t forget The Pony Club’s tapas-style sizing when ordering – you may find the serves on the small side (we did, but then, we are big eaters. That’s the tapas trap, I suppose – it can end up quite expensive for big eaters).
I really enjoyed the omelette and the soft, buttery, citrusy French toast.
View Larger Map
Note: The Pony Club has closed permanently.
The Pony Club
Telephone: (08) 9228 8801
620 Beaufort St
Mount Lawley WA
Breakfast with three of my favourite “J people” was fun (my other favourite J person is too far away :)).
TFP’s birthday 2010 posts
Here’s the full list of my 2010 birthday posts, in reading order:
Chocolate mini muffins, Part 2 – it’s my birthday!
The Pony Club, Mount Lawley
(the post you’re currently reading)
Hot roast meat sandwiches, Mondo Butchers, Inglewood
Big Bowl Noodle House, East Victoria Park
Desserts at Utopia, Victoria Park
My birthday – family afternoon tea
Facebook comments
comments
Like
<< Previous
Next >>
Share this post
About me
I’m Cynthia, Cyn to my friends, also known as TFP, a 40-year-old woman living in Perth, Western Australia. I live with Jac, my partner of 18+ years, and our cats, Pixel, Truffle and Elvis.
I started The Food Pornographer® blog in 2005. It combines the things I love to do most: eat, travel, take photographs and tell stories.
Read more Follow me 5774 likes 3067 followers 7101 followers 7163 followers
LATEST FROM FACEBOOK The Food Pornographer
28 October, 2015
Main course is served - seared lamb rack and pressed lamb belly (OMG the belly!!!). Conversation has dropped off noticeably with the arrival of the food. I call it... The silence of the lambs. (Ok yes, a bit of dad joke :P). I'm at a butcher masterclass at Chophouse Perth #invited
...
See More See Less View on Facebook Likes:
25+ Shares:
0 Comments:
3 Tanya Ali ,
Nicole Jackson
and
23
others like this Leanne Doyle Not a fan of Chophouse.
Had dinner there for the first time fairly recently and found the service levels low and the prices high.
I am not a fan of paying well over $40 for a pretty mediocre steak and then having to fork out extra for sauces/condiments plus buy sides as well.
Overall, I felt ripped off -
a very disappointing experience :( 7 hours ago
Kate Ellson Ooooooo......that looks delicious!! 7 hours ago
Sally Smith Red meat and bacon forever!!!!! :-) 7 hours ago
·   1 Comment on Facebook The Food Pornographer
28 October, 2015
Spiced kibbeh en croute - lamb tartare with ras el hanout and flaked almonds. One of five lamb dishes coming our way as part of the butcher's masterclass
Chophouse Perth .
These classes will be available to customers soon. I'm all for learning and eating. #invited
...
See More See Less View on Facebook Likes:
0 Shares:
0 Comments:
0 Comment on Facebook The Food Pornographer
28 October, 2015
Chef Scott Alfonso in action at the butcher's class Chophouse in Perth. I had a very small lunch today and was starving! Luckily the ambient noise from the kitchen drowned out the growls from my tummy. Well...I hope. #invited
...
See More See Less View on Facebook Likes:
5 Shares:
0 Comments:
0 Martin Eade ,
Anthony Felix Edwards
and 3 others like this Comment on Facebook The Food Pornographer
26 October, 2015
A recent feast at Mom Dumpling House in Willetton: meatballs, spinach, egg and vermicelli soup; stir-fried pork, egg and black fungus; salt and pepper squid and braised whole fish in brown sauce. Oh, the dumplings were awesome too. More on Mom and a couple of other places we've eaten at recently - Pacific Rim Plate (Hawaiian fusion) and Ah Beng Kopitiam (Malaysian) - at my blog. So much great food. Check out the post here:
thefoodpornographer.com/2015/10/what-weve-been-eating-lately/
...
See More See Less View on Facebook Likes:
3 Shares:
0 Comments:
3 Michelle Moulton ,
Jess Tabarias
and 1 other like this Philippa Willes Oooh, another one to shortlist for my next visit to Perth! 2 days ago
Michelle Moulton My hubby always goes to Pacific Rim (but he calls it Hawaiian Mike's after the chef) when he's working in the area - he gets very excited about it too 2 days ago
Claire Walkley Laine Walkley 2 days ago
Comment on Facebook The Food Pornographer
26 October, 2015
Today at work: gorgeous red velvet cupcakes to celebrate a birthday. Which design would you choose?
...
See More See Less View on Facebook Likes:
1 Shares:
0 Comments:
1 Claire Boissel
likes this Claire Boissel Pearly beads or ladybugs! 2 days ago
Comment on Facebook
Follow our cats
e-Newsletter Subscribe to my e-newsletter
to get a wrap-up of latest posts, upcoming Perth food events, exclusive news, recent activities and behind-the-scenes content.
Email address:
You can unsubscribe at any time, and your email address will never be shared, sold or used for any other purpose.
Latest Restaurant Posts What we’ve been eating lately… 3 days ago Three places we've enjoyed multiple times in recent months - … My long weekend in Sydney 2 weeks ago My bumper post on my recent long weekend in Sydney. First day in Honolulu, Hawaii 3 weeks ago Last year, Jac and I had a fantastic time in … Public House, Perth CBD 1 month ago South American-inspired lunch in the city. Finlay & Sons No 917, Inglewood 2 months ago Another busy, noisy, cramped cafe that doesn't take bookings - …
Latest Travel Tales Hole in the Wall Food Tour, Honolulu, Hawaii This tour was a terrific way to taste some of … First day in Honolulu, Hawaii Last year, Jac and I had a fantastic time in … Hot air ballooning in Bagan, Myanmar Riding a hot air balloon over the temples in Bagan … Yangon, Myanmar The first of my new series on my trip to … Denver, Colorado – Part 2 My three days/two nights in Downtown Denver included staying at …
Featured
Latest Family Feasts 40 My birthday fell on Good Friday this year, so I … Sculpture by the Sea, Cottesloe 2015 A potluck picnic and seeing this year's sculptures at Cottesloe … Zoe’s 6th birthday We celebrated Zoe's birthday with an afternoon tea. The party … Family dinner at Gold Garden, Balcatta Just another fun family meat fest! Chinese New Year 2015 – family reunion dinner Our family reunion dinner at Good Fortune Roast Duck House …
Copyright © 2014   |   Terms of use