Luscious and Low Rent
trashy_eats
Recent Entries
Fans
Archive
Community Info
Add to friends
RSS
Luscious and Low Rent
You Know You Like It
Random Casserole j_brew May 14th, 2014 So I posted another recipe on here with the mini pigs in the blanket but we still had one pack of the mini cocktail weenies left so decided to get creative with that one and some random items. Came up with a casserole and no idea what to call it so it shall now be named Random Casserole. More pics and recipe under the cut (  Read more... Collapse  )
3 Leave a comment Share
Mini Pigs In a Blanket j_brew May 2nd, 2014 I know there are tons of recipes for these online but I looked for almost an hour to find one for mini ones with cheese in them.
So here's what we came up with More pics and recipe under the cut (  Read more... Collapse  )
6 Leave a comment Share
Snickers "Slice N' Share" theidolhands November 21st, 2013 Here a man demonstrates the normal-sized snicker next to a holiday Godzilla snickers. Admit it...would you share? Tags:
chocolate ,
desserts ,
sugar high
25 Leave a comment Share
Ramen Burger theidolhands September 3rd, 2013 Sorry to post twice in one day, but I've seen this trend for turning ramen noodles into bun patties going around, and it seems quite relevant to interests here.
Further, this gentlemen in general,
The Ramen Rater , makes darn decent reviews of the delightfully trashy fave of broke folks everywhere, though today he featured a recipe version of just this dish, making unique and creative use of the included sauce packets as well!
This particular recipe happens to use a Korean package, and they call these noodles "ramyun". The Ramen Rater’s Shin Ramyun Black Burger Ingredients 1 Package Nongshim Shin Ramyun Black ground beef 1 egg 2 slices processed cheese frozen french fries cooking spray ketchup and mayonnaise Explained with pictures at this linked site Tags:
artery-clogging goodness ,
hamburger ,
links ,
ramen ,
trashed up fast food
4 Leave a comment Share
Cup Noodle Restaurant theidolhands August 29th, 2013 Current Music: Michael Jackson
-
Why You Wanna Trip on Me
| Powered by
Last.fm Speaking of hot dogs..
How about a hot dog flavored instant ramen complete with dehydrated slices?
Or wasabi-mayonnaise yaki soba? [Japanese chow mein] Care to give "cheese burger" Cup Noodle a go?
And who doesn't love a good "Italian Curry", I ask you? Well, maybe Italy!
But what would trashy eats be without your freeze-dried vegetables, bastardized cuisines or styrofoam cups?! I present a zen-like channel of food porn featuring various instant noodle delights brought to life and demonstrated for your hopeful delight.
May it inspire~ We begin our journey with a trip to a Cup Noodle
restaurant . You heard me. Tags:
fast food ,
hamburger ,
hot dogs ,
international trash ,
links ,
mayonnaise ,
ramen
Leave a comment Share
Yum yums marinade August 18th, 2013 1 cake mix, any variety (I used carrot cake) 1 8oz container of Kroger-brand Cool Whip (any will do) 1 egg. Bowl of powdered sugar Mix first three ingredients. Toss spoonfuls in powdered sugar Place on pan (parchment paper makes it easy) Bake at 350 for 12 minutes Holy crap.
7 Leave a comment Share
Mashadilla fanabana October 25th, 2012 Current Mood:
satisfied I had a load of spuds going off soon so this evening I cooked an enormous pot of mashed potato to freeze.
I also had half a pack of tortillas that needed eating up so I added cheddar and microwaved myself a mash spud quesadilla.
It was delish in a carby sort of way but it needed a lot of ketchup to give it some tang. Tags:
cheese... and lots of it ,
potatos
8 Leave a comment Share
(no subject) firecausesburns August 1st, 2012 My mum came home with a dozen tins of sweetened condensed milk. Any suggestions of fun tasty things I can do with them, that will stop me from just digging in with a spoon? Tags:
desserts ,
sugar high
30 Leave a comment Share
Recipe Review & Follow Up kadevha May 26th, 2012 A few weekends ago, I made
loaded potato buffalo chicken casserole
and it was just amazing.
Seriously, if you like loaded potatoes and buffalo chicken - make this tonight. It's not
entirely
trashy in terms of preparation but, omg, it's awesome.
I did not coat the potatoes in hot sauce as I wanted it to be tastebud friendly to anyone who ate it.
It was still plenty spicy though.
Also, I think I will use real bacon pieces found near the salad dressings instead of frying it.
I really do not like frying bacon.
That task is usually left to my husband.
I poured a bit of ranch dressing on my serving which just made it even better. As for my plea for help last weekend: http://trashy-eats.livejournal.com/1766 397.html I made a stuffed shells dish and strawberry cake.
The guys and my dad really really enjoyed it.
For link happy people, I made: I Hate Ricotta Cheese -Meat & 2 Cheese Stuffed Shells Strawberry Refrigerator Cake
- Essentially a boxed cake mix, pureed strawberries, cool whip & pudding.
My guy has declared this as his favorite cake - ever.
It may have even replaced his life long love of yellow cake/chocolate frosting.
5 Leave a comment Share
Best Guy Food? kadevha May 18th, 2012 Nearly every Saturday, my husband and his friend hang out so they can play video games, nom on food, etc.
I usually cook something very guy friendly because, well, more food is consumed when it's two guys eating rather than just my husband and me. Bring on your best ideas!
Nachos, chili, taco bakes, and the buffalo chicken casserole is out because I make these too often.
I don't mind some prep work because I dearly love cooking for these guys (mostly for my husband). (  And, the recipe for the loaded potato buffalo chicken casserole because it"s just so full of win that the guys and I approve! Collapse  )
20 Leave a comment Share
Pizza Roll Chili Cheese Casserole j_brew May 18th, 2012 So we had a bunch of stuff in the freezer to use up and decided to mix it with other things in the pantry, fridge, etc. Came up with this: Below the cut-tag are the ingredients, pics and preparation.
This should all go in the oven at 350 deg until cheese gets bubbly.
Microwaving the pizza rolls first helped to accelerate this and also you can squish them down in the bottom if you want a flat crust.
You can also add in chopped up hot dogs, onions and garnish with sour cream (the sour cream plopped on top of each serving really made this good!) (  Read more... Collapse  )
27 Leave a comment Share
Meta-trash? kshandra March 11th, 2012 Current Mood:
amused Reposted from a friend's journal with permission: Wait - you're alternating spoonfuls of salsa with spoonfuls of alfredo sauce? Yeah. The salsa helps open my sinuses and the alfredo kills the fire on my tongue. Riiiiight. We're out of milk. And I tried whipped cream, but it just didn't work as well. That's it. I'm leaving. Hey, if you're going out - pick up some milk?
3 Leave a comment Share
Macaroni, Ranch beans and cheese greeneyedsadie February 28th, 2012 Current Location: 93436 Current Mood:
satisfied Current Music: Life After People - History Channel I was having a starch craving and a bean craving, so I found a can of Jalapeno Ranch Beans in the cupboard and some salad macaroni in the pantry and there was grated cheese in the fridge! So I boiled the pasta, heated the beans on the stove, and after I drained the pasta, I melted a little butter in the pasta, then I mixed the pasta and the beans together and covered them in cheese, which I stirred in. Delicious! Tags:
artery-clogging goodness ,
beans ,
mac and cheese mix-ins ,
too lazy to cook
5 Leave a comment Share
Hand cooked Bloody Mary potato crisps (chips) a_foxie_smile February 25th, 2012 Hands up who has a hangover. No? Either I don't believe you. Or more likely, you are still drunk. In the UK, when one requires a certain "hair of the dog" the next morning. One more than likely turns to that most reviving of drinks, the
Bloody Mary . That amazing cocktail of tomato juice,
Worcester Sauce , tabasco, optionally perhaps some salt and pepper and a natty celery-stick mixing spoon but most importantly, a double shot of vodka. Well, no longer do we have to restrict ourselves to a liquid lunch. Marks and Spencer, our favourite semi-upmarket purveyor of ready-meals has come up with the Hand Cooked Bloody Mary flavour crisp: They are quite robust, rustic things,. In a similar way to old-style Kettle chips. True to the cocktail they do contain (dried) tomatoes and celery (extract). They also contain garlic and onion  and cardamon, taste more or a spicy taco seasoning than of tabasco and I no matter how hard I try I can't find any alcohol in them. So, sorry M+S. While these are nice enough in a spicy tomato kind of way. I might have to continue to seek my Sunday refreshments at the hand of the barman instead. Tags:
chips ,
international trash
10 Leave a comment Share
(no subject) fanabana February 12th, 2012 Current Mood:
cheerful Just had my first hotdog in years and it was delish.
I'm not a veggie but I only eat veggie hotdogs because even I am not trashy enough to eat the 11% pork trimmings and mechanically recovered chicken bumholes and connective tissue kind that they sell in cans in our local Tesco Express. I got a bag of ten frozen ones and have eight left to play around with so I'm thinking of making something trashy out of them.
My mum used to put frankfurters in her potato salad but other than that I've no idea how to make a meal out of them, aside from the obvious hotdog fixings and some oven chips. Advice please! Tags:
hot dogs
25 Leave a comment Share
Taco Bake kadevha November 12th, 2011 I decided to make this taco bake for my husband and his friend for their weekly get together of college football, gaming, and whatever else. It is always quite the hit with these guys! (  Recipe and a picture behind the cut... Collapse  )
10 Leave a comment Share
Taco Dip! kadevha November 9th, 2011 Trashy because of the ingredients! (  Taco dip! (I so want to make this but my husband does not agree) Collapse  ) I want to make this so I can have munch stuff for my extended weekend but my husband has gorged himself on his own faux Mexican dip this week: (  The Man "Dip" Collapse  )
8 Leave a comment Share
(no subject) firecausesburns October 12th, 2011 I've come to the conclusion that the last week of my life has been an experiment into whether a person can live entirely off two-minute noodles (smothered in cheese), Nutella, Pepsi, and peanut butter on toast. (Current signs point to yes.)
8 Leave a comment Share
(no subject) firecausesburns September 25th, 2011 Deep-fried Mars bars are officially the most delicious things I have ever tasted. Sadly, I had to stop at one fun-sized one because I was quite sure my arteries would have clogged instantly had I eaten any more. Tags:
fried ,
sugar high
4 Leave a comment Share
The Super Brownie jmnstars August 15th, 2011 Current Mood:
chipper One glass for you, one glass for me! Go grab a glass of mild and get ready because this post is full of rich and tasty Super Brownies! (  Do you have your glass of milk yet?! Collapse  )
19 Leave a comment Share
(no subject) firecausesburns July 18th, 2011 Any suggestions on trashy things to do with Greek yoghurt? I have way more than I expected because I forgot that I already had a tub and bought another tub.
21 Leave a comment Share
Comfort food firecausesburns July 1st, 2011 I've just been dumped out of the blue by a close friend/someone I had strong feelings for. I need to drown my sorrows in (preferably sweet) food that doesn't take much effort. What trashy suggestions can you lovely people give?
31 Leave a comment Share
Grilled Cheese and hot dog sandwich. greeneyedsadie June 30th, 2011 I slit and grilled two Nathan's hot dogs. Then I spread margarine on a slice of cracked wheat sourdough bread, put it in the pan, put grated Mexican four cheese blend on it then put the hot dogs on top of the cheese. Add another slice of bread with outside buttered. Then cook both sides until cheese is melty! NOM this is so good. Perfect munchie food.
18 Leave a comment Share
Late night munchies funkybrewsta June 21st, 2011 A scoop (or two. Okay, three.) of canned cheese dip found in the back of the fridge. One leftover steak with sauce and onions, cut up. Throw in bowl. Nuke for two minutes, stir. Eat with Doritos or a spoon when the Doritos run out and Diet Pepsi. See heaven. Thank me later. No pictures as I ate it too fast to care.
2 Leave a comment Share
(no subject) parresa22 June 13th, 2011 This question might be better for the 'cooking' community but oh well, I like ya'll better. I want to make this pasta salad-
http://thepioneerwoman.com/cooking/2 011/03/pasta-salad-with-tomatoes-zucchin i-and-feta/
but I HATE tomatoes. I can tolerate them in sauces or buried in a toasty sandwich but on their own to be eaten cold with a fork? Gross.
Sooooo, what would
you
sub the tomatoes for in that recipe?
40 Leave a comment Share
Previous 25
Tags
appetizers ,
artery-clogging goodness ,
bacon ,
bbq sauce ,
beans ,
biscuits ,
bisquick ,
bologna ,
can of stuff with stuff on top ,
casseroles ,
cheese... and lots of it ,
chips ,
chocolate ,
condiments ,
crockpot ,
desserts ,
dips ,
drinks ,
fast food ,
finger foods ,
french fries ,
fried ,
fried fair food ,
gravy ,
hamburger ,
hot dogs ,
hot sauce ,
international trash ,
jell-o ,
leftovers ,
lil smokies ,
links ,
mac and cheese mix-ins ,
main dishes ,
mayonnaise ,
mod post ,
not food ,
nutella ,
onion straws ,
peanut butter ,
pizza ,
poor college trash ,
pop tarts ,
potatos ,
pudding ,
ramen ,
recipe request ,
rice-a-roni ,
salads ,
sammiches ,
snacky cakes ,
soup ,
spam ,
stuff with stuff on top ,
sugar high ,
too lazy to cook ,
trashed up fast food ,
tuna ,
vegetables... probably canned ,
velveeta ,
we've seen this before
Powered by
LiveJournal.com
?
LiveJournal
Find more
Communities
RSS Reader
Shop
Help
Login
Login
Join
English (en)
English (en)
Русский (ru)
Українська (uk)
Français (fr)
Português (pt)
español (es)
Deutsch (de)
Italiano (it)
Беларуская (be)
trashy_eats
Log in
Or connect using:
Facebook
Twitter
VK
Google+
Mail.ru
OpenID
Error
Username:
Error
Password:
Forgot password?
Remember me
Log in
Create an Account
Your OpenID URL:
Log in