Eat, Sleep, Breathe, Travel: Ad for London Dungeon is too horrifying
Eat, Sleep, Breathe, Travel
EF College Break runs trips to Europe and beyond for college students. This blog is home for all things travel, and where it all comes together. A pop star monk in Beijing. A town-wide tomato fight in Spain. Nudist hikers in the Swiss Alps. The world is full of characters. Inspiration is everywhere.
Home
Archives
« Mysterious Mona Lisa
|
Main
|
Hitting the beach in Paris and Prague »
Monday, July 19, 2010
Ad for London Dungeon is too horrifying
I thought
this story
from London was pretty funny. A digital poster ad for the
London Dungeon
had to be taken down because it was too terrifying for children.
The digital ad, which was posted in Tube stations and trains, showed a standard portrait of the 16th-century English Queen, Queen Mary I, otherwise known as
Bloody Mary . After a few moments, the Queen suddenly changed into a flesh-eating zombie.
Apparently, the zombie caused many young children to freak out. So, Britain’s official Advertising Standards Authority ordered the ad’s removal. I especially enjoyed this part of the agency’s official explanation for banning the ad: "We also considered that when the face morphed into the scary character, the bloody gashes, white flesh, rotting teeth, red eyes and the threatening expression meant it was not suitable for young children to see.”
Fair point.
While the ad may be too much for little children, I have only good things to say about the London Dungeon itself. I’ve had good times there. You wander through spooky medieval London, looking at ghastly tableaus of torture, mayhem and horror. Scary sound effects and background noise add to the ghoulish atmosphere.
I have a real affinity for tableaus (my favorite ride at Disneyworld is Pirates of the Caribbean). And it looks like they’ve added some new features to the London Dungeon since I was there a few years back. They now have a Drop Ride to Doom, a Boat Ride to Hell, and the new Bloody Mary attraction. And they still have the old faithfuls like Jack the Ripper and Sweeney Todd.
Some people might tell you the London Dungeon is stupid. But those people are just scared.
Photo:
.Martin.
via Flickr ( CC license )
Posted at 12:33 PM in
England ,
News
|
Permalink
|
Reblog
(0)
Comments
You can follow this conversation by subscribing to the
comment feed
for this post.
This is a very interesting way to look at something that most people find difficult to comprehend. Previousely, I had a different take on how things operate or even how they should operate. Many thanks for the enlightenment.
Posted by:
Vic Portway
|
Sunday, July 25, 2010 at 11:37 AM
The comments to this entry are closed.
Tweets by @EFCollegeBreak
Archives
June 2013
May 2013
April 2013
March 2013
February 2013
January 2013
December 2012
November 2012
October 2012
September 2012
Eat, Sleep, Breathe, Travel
Powered by TypePad