OMDb.si - TV series - Supernatural (2005)
Toggle navigation
OMDb.si
Forum
Entry type
All
Movies
TV Series
Mini series
Search phrase
Year
Supernatural (2005)
General
ID:
kHcG
Entry type:
TV series
Genres:
Drama, Fantasy, Horror, Mystery, Thriller
Countries:
USA
Languages:
English
Length:
45 min
Summary
No summary available
Additional information
Also known as
External
Lovci na natprirodno:
Croatia (2005)
Nadnaravno:
Slovenia (2005)
Doğaüstü:
Turkey (2005)
IMDb link
Wikipedia
Episodes
Season 1
Season 2
Season 3
Season 4
Season 5
Season 6
Season 7
Season 8
Season 9
Supernatural: Episode 1 - Pilot
Sam is about to graduate from college and has an interview set up to join one of the most prestigious law schools in the country. His brother Dean, whom he has not seen since he went to college, shows up in the middle of the night and tells him their father is missing while on a hunting trip. Leaving his girlfriend behind to find their dad, Sam joins Dean in an effort to find their father in a little town called Jericho, where unmarried men disappear without a trace.
Supernatural: Episode 2 - Wendigo
Sam and Dean pose as Park Rangers to help a brother and sister search for their lost sibling, who the Winchester brothers believe may have been taken by a Wendigo.
Supernatural: Episode 3 - Dead In The Water
While going through the newspaper, Dean comes across a mysterious drowning victim. Upon further research they soon discover more people who have drowned in the same lake, but their bodies were never found. When the boys show up in town they befriend a boy whose father has drowned. The brothers come to believe the lake is haunted by a spirit.
Supernatural: Episode 4 - Phantom Traveler
A friend of Dean's calls him up when a plane crashes under mysterious circumstances. Dean and Sam soon discover a flight attendent who was on the plane but they do not realize her full connection to the crash until they are on board another flight with her.
Supernatural: Episode 5 - Bloody Mary
A man dies of a stroke in front of a mirror but Sam and Dean believe something, or someone, else may be behind his death, Bloody Mary.
Supernatural: Episode 6 - Skin
Sam’s friend, Zach, is accused of murder. Sam offers to help out by checking up on his sister, Rebecca. Rebecca claims her brother could not have committed the murder because he was with her at the time of the murder took place. But all the physical evidence points to Zach being at the scene of the crime. Could Zach have been at two places at the same time?
Supernatural: Episode 7 - Hook Man
Sam and Dean help a girl whose date became a victim of the "Hook Man," a famous urban legend that turns out to be real, in a small college town somewhere in Iowa. In order to save her and her father, the local minister, the brothers have to find the ghost's bones so they can destroy them. One tiny problem... they're in an unmarked grave.
Supernatural: Episode 8 - Bugs
Dean and Sam arrive in a town looking for something, where they stop at a realtor's open house barbecue. There, Sam meets a 13-year-old boy named Matt, with a fascincation for bugs. Soon the town is invaded by swarms of deadly bugs, and there may be no way out.
Supernatural: Episode 9 - Home
Dean and Sam return to their home of Lawrence, Kansas, where a new family has moved into the Winchester's old home. The family begins seeing and hearing frightening things, and the brothers think it might be haunted by the thing that killed their mother.
Supernatural: Episode 10 - Asylum
When Sam and Dean investigate a mysterious asylum that has a history with abuse, an evil force inside causes Sam to lose his sanity and turn on his brother.
Supernatural: Episode 11 - Scarecrow
Sam and Dean come across a small town where the citizens seem to be using a scarecrow to cause the deaths of anyone who comes into town.
Supernatural: Episode 12 - Faith
Sam and Dean investigate the deaths of people connected to a faith healer.
Supernatural: Episode 13 - Route 666
Sam and Dean head to Mississippi to investigate mysterious car accidents involving black men.
Supernatural: Episode 14 - Nightmare
The brothers investigate a mysterious death which seems connected to a boy with the power of telekinesis.
Supernatural: Episode 15 - The Benders
Dean searches for Sam when he is kidnapped by a backwoods family who likes to hunt humans and use their body parts as trophies.
Supernatural: Episode 16 - Shadow
Sam has a reunion with the girl of his dreams, Meg, but it turns out that she is in the grip of dark forces and is being used to lure John to his doom.
Supernatural: Episode 17 - Hell House
Sam and Dean investigate a house haunted by the ghost of Mordecai, a man who killed his six daughters during the 1930s. The brothers discover a website dedicated to the Mordecai legend and realize the town is unknowingly conjuring up the evil spirit through the site.
Supernatural: Episode 18 - Something Wicked
Sam and Dean investigate a small town in Wisconsin where children are falling into comas for no apparent reason. The brothers discover that a witch is creeping into the bedrooms of the children and stealing their “life force.” While battling the witch, Dean recalls a past mistake that almost cost Sam his life at the hands of the very same witch, an event which has fueled Dean’s protectiveness over Sam and his blind obedience to his father.
Supernatural: Episode 19 - Provenance
A young couple is murdered in their home shortly after buying an antique painting of a family portrait circa 1910. Upon reviewing the painting’s provenance, Sam and Dean learn that everyone who has ever bought the painting has been murdered and race to discover how the portrait is causing the deaths before it can claim its next victim.
Supernatural: Episode 20 - Dead Man's Blood
After Daniel Elkins, a vampire hunter and John’s mentor, is murdered, Sam and Dean are surprised when John himself shows up to solve the case. John discovers the vampires have taken an antique gun, which has the power to kill all supernatural beings. The Winchester family sets out to retrieve the gun from the vampires so they can use it to kill the demon that took Sam and Dean’s mother.
Supernatural: Episode 21 - Salvation
Sam has a vision of a family being attacked in the same manner as the attack on his mom, so he, Dean and John head off to Salvation, Iowa, to save this family and finally kill the demon using the Colt gun. However, Meg calls and lets the family know she is going to start killing their friends unless they return the gun. John meets Meg to deliver a fake gun, while the boys are left to deal with the demon.
Supernatural: Episode 22 - Devil's Trap
The boys visit a friend of their father's to get information about demonic possessions and ways to trap a demon. Turns out Meg is not what she appears.
Supernatural: Episode 1 - In My Time Of Dying
Tessa is a reaper trying to convince Dean to move on (die). To save Dean's life, John is forced to make a chilling agreement with the fire demon. A shaken John vows to help his oldest son at any cost. While Sam frets at his comatose brother's bedside, Dean's consciousness wanders the hospital with Tessa, a woman apparently in the same situation. But her frustration grows as he shakes off her subtle manipulations. Sam and John reach a truce, but the father knows more about his son's mysterious abilities than he lets on.
Supernatural: Episode 2 - Everybody Loves a Clown
Sam (Jared Padalecki) and Dean (Jensen Ackles) listen to a message on John's (Jeffrey Dean Morgan) cell phone from a woman named Ellen (guest star Samantha Ferris) and decide to track her down. They are shocked to discover Ellen runs a road house that also serves as a gathering place for hunters like themselves. Meanwhile, at a small town carnival, a clown is persuading children to let them into their home so he can murder their parents.
Supernatural: Episode 3 - Bloodlust
Sam (Jared Padalecki) and Dean (Jensen Ackles) meet Gordon (guest star Sterling K. Brown), a fellow demon hunter who has been systematically killing vampires in a small town, and Dean immediately bonds with the older man. However, after Sam meets with the lead vampire (guest star Amber Benson) and discovers they are actually peaceful creatures who survive on cattle blood, he decides not all supernatural beings are evil and forces Dean to choose whether he will side with Sam or Gordon.
Supernatural: Episode 4 - Children Shouldn't Play With Dead Things
Dean (Jensen Ackles) and Sam (Jared Padalecki) investigate the murder of a college student (guest star Summer Glau) who has come back from the dead seeking revenge on those who mistreated her while she was alive. Upon confrontation, the ghost savagely attacks Sam, leaving him injured. While in town, the brothers visit their mother's grave to pass along something from their father (Jeffrey Dean Morgan's).
Supernatural: Episode 5 - Simon Said
Sam (Jared Padalecki) and Dean (Jensen Ackles) meet Andy (guest star Gabriel Tigerman), a slacker who has psychic powers of persuasion, which he uses to gain favors from people. However, when some of Andy's friends start dying, the brothers question whether Andy is using his powers to kill. After learning that Andy's family was visited by the Demon 22 years ago, Sam wonders if Andy is part of the group of children the Demon told him about, and if that means he himself will eventually turn evil.
Supernatural: Episode 6 - No Exit
Sam (Jared Padalecki) and Dean (Jensen Ackles) investigate the brutal slayings of blond women from an apartment building and discover the demon responsible is the ghost of the first serial murderer, H. H. Holmes. Meanwhile, defying her mother's (guest star Samantha Ferris) wishes, Jo (guest star Alana Tal) follows the Winchesters on their hunt and ends up getting captured by the ghost and buried alive.
Supernatural: Episode 7 - The Usual Suspects
Sam (Jared Padalecki) and Dean (Jensen Ackles) investigate the murders of a lawyer and his wife who claimed to have seen a ghost right before they died. However, after local detectives Ballard (guest star Linda Blair) and Sheridan (guest star Jason Gedrick) uncover the Winchesters' records, they arrest the brothers for a double homicide before they are able to find the ghost. When the ghost begins to visit Ballard, she begins to wonder if the tale Sam and Dean are telling her could be true, and if she might be the next to die.
Supernatural: Episode 8 - Crossroad Blues
When two highly successful professionals die after claiming to be haunted by hellhounds, Sam (Jared Padalecki) and Dean (Jensen Ackles) investigate the local dive bar and discover it sits upon a site where a deal-making demon has been making people's dreams come true in exchange for their souls. Dean summons the demon to exorcise it but is horrified after it reveals the painful truth about John's death and tempts Dean by offering him the one thing he wants more than anything - his father.
Supernatural: Episode 9 - Croatoan
After Sam has a vision of Dean killing a young man who seems to be possessed by a demon, the two brothers head off to Oregon to search for answers. They come across a town infected by a deadly virus that drives a person to kill. Sam becomes infected by one of the locals and prepares for his deadly fate, but after nothing happens to him, Dean decides to come clean and reveal what John whispered to him before he died.
Supernatural: Episode 10 - Hunted
After Dean tells Sam what their father told him before he died, a distraught Sam sneaks off to Indiana without Dean. While there, Sam runs into Eva, a psychic who confesses to Sam she sought him out to warn him of his impending death. Dean discovers Gordon is after Sam and races to find his brother in time to save him.
Supernatural: Episode 11 - Playthings
Sam and Dean investigate two strange deaths at a small Connecticut inn run by a single mom whose young daughter plays with an imaginary friend. The brothers find evidence of voodoo around the inn, but soon realize the little girl's imaginary friend may in fact be a demon who is killing the townspeople.
Supernatural: Episode 12 - Night Shifter
Sam (Jared Padalecki) and Dean (Jensen Ackles) investigate a string of robberies with a disturbing pattern ?? in each incident a trusted employee holds up the bank then commits suicide. However, when the autopsy reports shows their actual time of death as several days before the robbery, Sam and Dean realize the shape-shifter has returned.
Supernatural: Episode 13 - Houses of the Holy
Sam (Jared Padalecki) and Dean (Jensen Ackles) investigate the murders of several people by individuals who claim they were visited by an angel and were carrying out God's will. After the brothers learn those murdered were actually guilty of secret crimes, Sam begins to believe this angel really does exist, but Dean stands firm on the fact a demon is behind the slayings - until he sees something even he can't explain.
Supernatural: Episode 14 - Born Under A Bad Sign
After receiving a frantic call from Sam, who has been missing for over a week, Dean races to his brothers side. He finds Sam covered in blood, but unable to remember anything that happened. Upon investigation, the brothers are horrified to discover a tape that shows Sam killing another hunter in cold blood, causing Sam to believe his evil side is finally taking over.
Supernatural: Episode 15 - Tall Tales
Sam and Dean call upon their family friend and fellow hunter Bobby for help after they are stumped by violent and unexplainable happenings on a local college campus. Bobby arrives with a suspicion as to the culprit behind the killing spree and the brothers' escalating feud.
Supernatural: Episode 16 - Roadkill
While driving down a deserted road, Sam and Dean are startled after a bloody woman named Molly bolts out in front of the Impala screaming for help from the crazy farmer who is chasing her. Sam and Dean investigate and discover the man is actually an angry spirit who kills one person the same time every year and has decided Molly will be his next victim.
Supernatural: Episode 17 - Heart
After investigating the death of a lawyer who appeared to have been killed by a wild animal, Sam and Dean realize they are tracking a werewolf. Sam is immediately attracted to the lawyer's secretary Madison and when it seems as if Madison will be the werewolf's next victim, Sam offers to stay overnight to protect her. Dean heads out to hunt the animal and is stunned by what he finds.
Supernatural: Episode 18 - Hollywood Babylon
Sam and Dean make a trip to Hollywood to investigate the death of one of the actors on a horror film set after rumors begin that he was killed by a ghost. They discover the death was a publicity hoax but when the executive producer and a studio executive are killed, Sam and Dean realize they are dealing with a haunted set. Gary Cole guest stars as Brad Redding, one of the stars of the horror film.
Supernatural: Episode 19 - Folsom Prison Blues
After hearing about a ghost that has been killing off inmates one by one, Sam and Dean decide the best way to investigate this spirit is from the inside and allow themselves to get thrown into the state penitentiary. However, after FBI Agent Henricksen shows up to take over their case, getting out of prison becomes a bigger challenge than finding the spirit.
Supernatural: Episode 20 - What Is and What Should Never Be
While hunting a Djinn Dean is attacked and transported to a world where his mother is alive, Sam is in law school and engaged to Jessica, and Dean lives a very normal life with his girlfriend. However, after he starts seeing a strange girl and learns all the people he has saved in the past have died, Dean must decide whether he wants to stay in this new safe life where everyone he loves is alive or if he should return to the hunt.
Supernatural: Episode 21 - All Hell Breaks Loose (1)
Sam is abducted by the Yellow-Eyed Demon and finds himself in a ghost town with other children who have special abilities. They learn the Demon has brought them together to initiate his endgame: an all-out war against the human race. In an effort to encourage Sam to fight, the Demon shows him what really happened to one of his parents. Dean enlists Bobby's help to find Sam before the battle begins, but he arrives too late.
Supernatural: Episode 22 - All Hell Breaks Loose (2)
Deanmust deal with the aftermath of the fight between Sam and Jake and pays a steep price for his involvement. The Demon and his spirits threaten to overtake the hunters until they receive help from an unexpected ally.
Supernatural: Episode 1 - The Magnificent Seven
Bracing themselves for the possibility of an apocalyptic war, Sam (Jared Padalecki) and Dean (Jensen Ackles) realize they have an enormous task of hunting down the hundreds of demons that escaped from the Devil's Gate. With only a year left to live, Dean decides to live life to the fullest and exhibits a carefree attitude that troubles Sam, who is trying to find a loophole in the deal. Bobby (Jim Beaver) tells the brothers about a sighting in Nebraska that turns out to be seven demons that are the actual manifestations of the Seven Deadly Sins.
Supernatural: Episode 2 - The Kids Are Alright
Dean pressures Sam into visiting Cicero, Indiana, so he can visit an old flame named Lisa (guest star Cindy Sampson), he had a tryst nine years ago. However, Dean is stunned when he meets not only Lisa again, but also her 8-year old son Ben (guest star Nicholas Elias), who bears a striking resemblance to him. However, Ben soon goes missing and Sam and Dean discover that a Changeling, a demonic parasite, is snatching kids from the small town and assuming their form. Meanwhile, Ruby makes contact with Sam and reveals some startling information about his mom.
Supernatural: Episode 3 - Bad Day at Black Rock
Sam and Dean answer a call on their dad's old cell phone, alerting them someone has broken into John's secret storage room in New York. They discover a cursed rabbit's foot has been stolen and call Bobby for help. He advises them to beware of the foot because anyone who touches it will receive an extreme amount of good luck, but once the foot is lost that person will die. Unfortunately, Sam has already handled the foot, which causes an overjoyed Dean to buy lottery tickets, but a female thief steals it from Sam causing his luck to plummet and putting his life in danger.
Supernatural: Episode 4 - Sin City
Sam (Jared Padalecki) and Dean (Jensen Ackles) investigate a rash of violent deaths in Elizabethville, Ohio, a once-sleepy town that has been turned into a haven for gamblers and drinkers. Dean discovers demons have infiltrated Elizabethville and are using their powers of persuasion to make the townspeople succumb to their basic instincts. Meanwhile, Ruby (Katie Cassidy) helps Bobby (Jim Beaver) rebuild the Colt from scratch and stuns him with some news.
Supernatural: Episode 5 - Bedtime Stories
Sam (Jared Padalecki) and Dean (Jensen Ackles) investigate a small town that has been plagued by a number of strange murders that resemble fairy tales, such as Little Red Riding Hood, Snow White and Hansel and Gretel. Meanwhile, Sam summons the Crossroad Demon (guest star Sandra McCoy) and threatens to kill her with the newly rebuilt Colt unless she releases Dean from his deal.
Supernatural: Episode 6 - Red Sky at Morning
Sam and Dean investigate the mysterious demise of drowned victims who were nowhere near the water at the time of their death. The brothers learn each of the victims saw a ghost ship shortly before they died. Upon investigation, they cross paths with Bela, who is being paid handsomely by one of the murder victims family members to solve the case. Sam and Dean warn her to stay out of their way, but she has other plans.
Supernatural: Episode 7 - Fresh Blood
Sam (Jared Padalecki) and Dean (Jensen Ackles) capture a female vampire named Lucy (guest star Mercedes McNab) who claims to have no knowledge of how she became a vampire. The guys discover Dixon (guest star Matthew Humphreys), a male vampire, is giving out human blood to unsuspecting females in bars, offering it up as the "latest drug" and turning them all into vampires. Meanwhile, Gordon (guest star Sterling K. Brown) escapes from jail and goes after Sam. However, Dixon intercepts Gordon and turns him into a vampire, which makes Gordon more powerful than before and a much bigger threat to Sam.
Supernatural: Episode 8 - A Very Supernatural Christmas
It's Christmas time and Sam (Jared Padalecki) and Dean (Jensen Ackles) investigate a series of murders where the victims were pulled up through the chimney. Sam realizes they are dealing with a sort of Anti-Santa, a demon with roots in pagan lore. Dean wants to celebrate Christmas the old fashioned way as this is his last, but Sam refuses, not wanting to accept that Dean won't be around next year. Sam flashes back to a certain Christmas when he waited for his father to come home to give him a special gift.
Supernatural: Episode 9 - Malleus Maleficarum
Sam (Jared Padalecki) and Dean (Jensen Ackles) travel to Sturbridge, Massachusetts, and discover a coven of witches that has killed two people. Ruby (Katie Cassidy) warns the brothers to stay away as the demon controlling these witches is very powerful and will surely kill them. Ignoring her plea, Sam and Dean go in after the coven and confront the head witch, who reveals Ruby's past.
Supernatural: Episode 10 - Dream a Little Dream of Me
Sam (Jared Padalecki) and Dean (Jensen Ackles) race to Bobby's (guest star Jim Beaver) side after he lapses into a coma and can't be awakened. While unconscious, Bobby battles his personal demons and the reason he became a hunter is revealed. Sam and Dean discover someone poisoned Bobby with a potion that will kill him if he doesn't wake soon. When the brothers decide to take the potion themselves to enter Bobby's dream in order to save him, they come face to face with their own personal nightmares.
Supernatural: Episode 11 - Mystery Spot
Sam (Jared Padalecki) and Dean (Jensen Ackles) investigate the disappearance of a man who went missing at a tourist location. While searching the site, Dean is shot and killed by the owner. Sam is devastated but stunned when he wakes up the next morning to find Dean alive and well. As the day unfolds, Sam realizes he is re-living the previous day and tries to prevent Dean's death, but to no avail. Dean dies again and Sam must learn to live life without his brother by his side.
Supernatural: Episode 12 - Jus In Bello
Sam (Jared Padalecki) and Dean (Jensen Ackles) break into Bela's (Lauren Cohan) apartment in order to get the Colt back, but she has tipped off Agent Henricksen (guest star C. Malik Whitfield) about their whereabouts and they are arrested. While Sam and Dean are locked in a cell in Colorado, a demon breaks in and kills some of the sheriff's men and possesses Henricksen. After the guys vanquish the demon, the FBI agent realizes they were telling the truth and prepares to release them, but Ruby (guest star Katie Cassidy) shows up to a warn Sam and Dean that the jailhouse is surrounded by a band of demons with a powerful new leader who wants Sam dead.
Supernatural: Episode 13 - Ghostfacers
Sam (Jared Padalecki) and Dean (Jensen Ackles) take a break from their usual gig to star in a gritty reality show called "Ghostfacers" which chronicles the pursuit of the paranormal. Ed Zeddmore (guest star A. J. Buckley) and Harry Spengler (guest star Travis Wester) have created a radically different and sometimes violent show full of profanity that takes them to the Morton Mansion, an abandoned estate which becomes one of the most haunted places in America one night each year. However, as their team begins to get picked off in grisly manners not fit for television, they realize they are in over their heads.
Supernatural: Episode 14 - Long Distance Call
Dean (Jensen Ackles) is stunned after he receives a phone call from his dad (guest star Jeffrey Dean Morgan) who tells him he has a solution to get Dean out of his deal. Sam (Jared Padalecki) and Dean fight because Sam is skeptical that it is really John on the other end of the phone and warns Dean not to listen to him but Dean disagrees and sets off on his own path to follow his father's orders.
Supernatural: Episode 15 - Time Is On My Side
As time runs out for Dean (Jensen Ackles), Sam (Jared Padalecki) convinces him to head to Eerie, Pennsylvania to investigate a possible zombie case. Instead, they discover Doc Benton (guest star Billy Drago), a real-life doctor who, in 1816, abandoned his medical practice to follow his obsession with finding the key to eternal life by drugging people and stealing their vital organs. Meanwhile, Bobby (Jim Beaver) finds out where Bela (Lauren Cohan) is hiding, and Dean heads out to confront her, leaving Sam behind to deal with the good doctor. Dean and Bela battle it out for the last time, and Dean leaves Bela in a desperate, and possibly fatal, position
Supernatural: Episode 16 - No Rest For The Wicked
It's 30 hours before Dean's (Jensen Ackles) deal with the crossroads demon is up and Dean, Sam (Jared Padalecki) and Bobby (Jim Beaver) are searching for Lilith, who holds the contract. They discover her location and Sam summons Ruby (Katie Cassidy) for help despite Dean's protests. Ruby warns them they aren't ready to fight Lilith yet but they steal her knife and depart for New Harmony, Indiana. In a battle to the death, Sam, Dean and Bobby take on Lilith and all her demons in a last ditch effort to save Dean's life.
Supernatural: Episode 1 - Lazarus Rising
It's four months later and Dean (Jensen Ackles) wakes in a pine box. He's been freed from Hell. He has a joyful reunion with Sam (Jared Padalecki) and Bobby (Jim Beaver), but it isn't long before the three wonder what exactly pulled Dean from Hell and what it will want in return.
Supernatural: Episode 2 - Are You There, God? It's Me, Dean Winchester
Sam (Jared Padalecki) and Dean (Jenson Ackles) are stunned when the spirits of Meg (guest star Nikki Aycox) and Agent Henricksen (guest star C. Malik Whitfield) appear and accuse the Winchesters of failing them. Although rattled, the brothers must pull together to save Bobby (Jim Beaver), who is too crippled with guilt to fight off the angry ghosts of the young children he couldn't save.
Supernatural: Episode 3 - In the Beginning
Dean (Jensen Ackles) is transported back in time and is shocked when he lands in Lawrence, Kansas. However, that shock turns to amazement after he runs into a young John Winchester (guest star Matthew Cohen) and Mary (guest star Amy Gumenick) who have just fallen in love. Dean isn't sure why he was sent back so he begins to enjoy the time with his parents and newfound grandfather (guest star Mitch Pileggi, "The X-Files"), who may be hiding a secret that is key to Sam (Jared Padalecki) and Dean's entire predicament.
Supernatural: Episode 4 - Metamorphosis
Sam (Jared Padalekci) and Dean (Jensen Ackles) discover that Jack Montgomery (guest star Dameon Clark), a family man, is turning into a Rugaru, a creature that starts as a human but changes into a flesh-eating monster. The people who are infected don't understand what is happening until they turn into cannibals and eat another person. Understanding what it is like to be a victim of a twisted destiny, Sam believes he can reason with Jack and convince him to control his urges. Dean doesn't think Jack's animalistic behavior can be subdued and decides the only honorable thing to do is to shoot him.
Supernatural: Episode 5 - Monster Movie
Dean (Jensen Ackles) and Sam (Jared Padalecki) investigate several murders at Oktoberfest. The first victim was found with bite marks on her neck, much like a vampire would leave, while the second victim has wounds that look like a werewolf attack. After a mummy rises from his crypt, Dean determines that a shape-shifter demon is terrorizing the town as iconic monsters from the old Hollywood movies.
Supernatural: Episode 6 - Yellow Fever
Sam (Jared Padalecki) and Dean (Jensen Ackles) investigate the mysterious deaths of several men who apparently dropped dead of fright. They visit one of the victims in the morgue, and Dean becomes infected with the illness which starts as a general anxiety, then moves on to full-blown terror that eventually stops the heart. Sam and Bobby (Jim Beaver) must find the root of the disease before Dean dies and is sent back to Hell.
Supernatural: Episode 7 - It's the Great Pumpkin, Sam Winchester
It's a few days before Halloween and Sam (Jared Padalecki) and Dean (Jensen Ackles) investigate two mysterious deaths in a small town. The brothers find hex bags and deduce a witch is sacrificing people to summon a dangerous demon named Samhain. Castiel (guest star Misha Collins) arrives in town and tells Sam and Dean the freeing of Samhain is one of the Seals that will lead to freeing Lucifer, so Castiel has brought a specialist angel named Uriel (guest star Robert Wisdom) to smite the entire town.
Supernatural: Episode 8 - Wishful Thinking
Sam (Jared Padalecki) and Dean (Jensen Ackles) investigate a small town where the wishing well really works. A teddy bear comes to life, someone wins the lottery and the town geek gets a hot girlfriend. The brothers realize that while everyone is happy now, the end result will be disastrous.
Supernatural: Episode 9 - I Know What You Did Last Summer
Ruby (guest star Genevieve Cortese) tells Sam (Jared Padalecki) and Dean (Jensen Ackles) that a powerful demon named Alastair (guest star Mark Rolston) is searching for a girl named Anna (guest star Julie McNiven) who can hear the angels' conversations. The three set out to find Anna but once they do, Alastair attacks them and Ruby escapes with the girl. Believing they were set up, Dean lashes out at Sam for trusting Ruby, so Sam tells him what happened during those months Dean was in Hell and how Ruby saved his life. Castiel (guest star Misha Collins) and Uriel (guest star Robert Wisdom) return and demand to be taken to Anna but not for the reason Dean thinks.
Supernatural: Episode 10 - Heaven and Hell
Anna (guest star Julie McNiven) remembers her past and Sam (Jared Padalecki) and Dean (Jensen Ackles) finally understand why Castiel (guest star Misha Collins) and Uriel (guest star Robert Wisdom) want her dead. However, they disagree with the angels' orders and try to help Anna restore an important part of her past so she can be saved. Meanwhile, Alastair (guest star Mark Rolston) and his demons continue to close in on Anna and the brothers.
Supernatural: Episode 11 - Family Remains
Sam (Jared Padalecki) and Dean (Jensen Ackles) investigate the appearance of a young female ghost (guest star) in an abandoned house, but things become more complicated when a family moves in. The brothers fail to get the family to leave, but when the son is kidnapped though the walls, they look to Sam and Dean to rescue the boy
Supernatural: Episode 12 - Criss Angel is a Douchebag
A mysterious death draws Sam (Jared Padalecki) and Dean (Jensen Ackles) to a town full of old-school magicians. Their investigation leads them to Charlie (guest star John Rubenstein), Jay (guest star Barry Bostwick) and Vernon (guest star Richard Libertini), three friends who were famous magicians in their day but have now been replaced by flashier, younger magicians. One of them has made a deal to acquire real magical powers, but the price was extremely high. Sam and Dean must figure out a way to reverse the spell before others are harmed.
Supernatural: Episode 13 - After School Special
Sam (Jared Padalecki) and Dean (Jensen Ackles) go undercover to investigate a string of murders at their old high school. The case causes them to flashback to their time there recalling how Sam was picked on by the school bully while Dean was Mr. Popular.
Supernatural: Episode 14 - Sex & Violence
Sam (Jared Padalecki) and Dean (Jensen Ackles) enter a small town in Iowa, where three men have inexplicably beaten their wives to death. The guys realize that behind the murders is a Siren, a creature that can take different forms and desperately needs love and compels people to destroy themselves as a show of devotion. The Siren eventually puts Sam and Dean under their spell and pits the two brothers against each other in a fight to the death.
Supernatural: Episode 15 - Death Takes a Holiday
Sam and Dean investigate a small town where people are cheating death. They discover the Reapers have gone missing so they turn to Pamela (guest star Traci Dinwiddie) for help. She sends them into the spiritual world to find answers and they come face to face with Alastair, who has been kidnapping all the Reapers in order to break another seal.
Supernatural: Episode 16 - On the Head of a Pin
Someone found Lucifer's sword and is using it to kill angels. Castiel (Misha Collins) and Uriel (guest star Robert Wisdom) have captured Alastair (guest star Christopher Heyerdahl) and ask Dean (Jensen Ackles) to use the torturing skills he learned in Hell to extract information from him so they can stop the murders. Sam (Jared Padalecki) is concerned Dean can't handle the job but Dean agrees to do it. However, when Alastair reveals some shocking information, Dean's world is shattered.
Supernatural: Episode 17 - It's a Terrible Life
Dean (Jensen Ackles) and Sam (Jared Padalecki) are living very normal and separate lives. Dean is a corporate man who enjoys health drinks and listens to news radio vs. rock stations. He works at a company called Sandover Bridge & Iron Company alongside Sam (Jared Padalecki) who is in Tech Support. It seems as if the two do not know each other. However, after co-workers start committing suicide at an alarming rate, the two find themselves working side by side to solve the murders.
Supernatural: Episode 18 - The Monster at the End of This Book
Sam (Jared Padalecki) and Dean (Jensen Ackles) are shocked to discover a series of comic books titled "Supernatural" that accurately detail their lives as demon hunters. They track down the writer, Carver Edlund (guest star Rob Benedict), who explains he has visions of the brothers that he then turns into comic books. Chuck reveals that Lilith (guest star Katherine Boecher) is coming and she has a plan for Sam.
Supernatural: Episode 19 - Jump the Shark
A 19-year-old boy named Adam (guest star Jake Abel) calls Sam (Jared Padalecki) and Dean (Jensen Ackles) looking for John Winchester, claiming to be his son.? Dean and Sam meet Adam, assuming he's a demon trying to lure then into a trap.? However, they find out that John was indeed the boy's father and Adam tells them of his "normal" upbringing, which infuriates Dean.
Supernatural: Episode 20 - The Rapture
Castiel (Misha Collins) appears to Dean (Jensen Ackles) in a dream and says he has something important to tell him but they need to meet somewhere private. Dean and Sam (Jared Padalecki) go searching for Castiel but instead find Jimmy, Castiel's human vessel, who has only a spotty recollection of being an angel. Jimmy wants to return to his family and normal life, but Dean and Sam are concerned about his safety.
Supernatural: Episode 21 - When the Levee Breaks
Dean (Jensen Ackles) and Bobby (Jim Beaver) lock Sam (Jared Padalecki) in Bobby's panic room so he can detox from the demon blood. However, as Bobby sees more seals are being broken he tells Dean they should let Sam out to help them fight the impending apocalypse. Dean disagrees and goes to Castiel (Misha Collins) for help. Sam and Dean have a big blowout confrontation.
Supernatural: Episode 22 - Lucifer Rising
The apocalypse is coming, and Sam (Jared Padalecki) and Dean (Jensen Ackles) prepare for the fight in very different ways. Sam joins Ruby (Genevieve Cortese) on a final run to kill Lilith (guest star Katherine Boecher), while Castiel (Misha Collins) and Zachariah (guest star Kurt Fuller) tell Dean it's time to play his part in stopping Lucifer.
Supernatural: Episode 1 - Sympathy for the Devil
Picking up where the finale left off, Dean (Jensen Ackles) and Sam (Jared Padalecki) watch as the Devil (guest star Mark Pellegrino, "Lost") emerges from Hell. The brothers and Bobby (Jim Beaver) deal with the aftermath of Lucifer rising and the stunning news from Chuck the Prophet (guest star Rob Benedict) that Castiel (Misha Collins) was blown to bits by the archangels.
Supernatural: Episode 2 - Good God, Y'All
Castiel (Misha Collins) tells Sam (Jared Padalecki) and Dean (Jensen Ackles) that he is going to search for God, who will be able to defeat Lucifer. Bobby's (Jim Beaver) old hunter friend, Rufus (guest star Steven Williams), is panicked about demons attacking his town, and begs Bobby for help. Sam and Dean arrive at the town and realize there is a spell over the townspeople, making them hallucinate that they are demons and causing them to kill one another.
Supernatural: Episode 3 - Free to Be You and Me
Not sure he trusts himself anymore, Sam (Jared Padalecki) decides to give up hunting, but a late-night visitor (guest star Adrianne Palicki) won't let him off the hook that easily. Dean (Jensen Ackles), intent on stopping the Apocalypse, continues hunting on his own and teams up with Castiel (Misha Collins) to find the Archangel Raphael, as Castiel believes Raphael knows God's location.
Supernatural: Episode 4 - The End
Sam (Jared Padalecki) tells Dean (Jensen Ackles) he wants to rejoin Dean in the battle of the Apocalypse, but Dean tells Sam that they are better off apart. Later, Dean awakens five years in the future in an abandoned city and is attacked by humans who have been infected with a demonic virus that turns humans into Zombies. Zachariah (guest star Kurt Fuller) appears to Dean and explains that this is the world that exists as a result of Dean saying no to helping the angels fight Lucifer. Dean meets up with Future Dean, who tells him that the virus is the Devil's endgame for destroying mankind.
Supernatural: Episode 5 - Fallen Idol
Sam (Jared Padalecki) and Dean (Jensen Ackles) decide to start hunting together again and their first case leads them to a small town whose inhabitants are being killed by famous dead icons like Abraham Lincoln and James Dean's car. However, after two teenage girls come forward and claim their friend was kidnapped by Paris Hilton (in a cameo role as herself), the brothers aren't sure what they are hunting anymore.
Supernatural: Episode 6 - I Believe The Children Are Our Future
Sam and Dean investigate a series of odd murders that strangely resemble fairytales and urban legends. The brothers track down an 11-year-old boy named Jesse and realize that whatever Jesse believes is coming true. Castiel tells Sam and Dean that Jesse is a serious threat and needs to be eliminated.
Supernatural: Episode 7 - The Curious Case of Dean Winchester
Sam (Jared Padalecki) and Dean (Jensen Ackles) discover a witch (guest star Hal Ozsan) is running a high-stakes poker game where the currency is life years vs. money. Bobby (Jim Beaver) sees the game as a chance to get out of the wheelchair and bets 25 years, but loses. As Bobby begins to age rapidly, Dean steps in to save him but also ends up turning into an old man, leaving Sam holding the bag for their survival.
Supernatural: Episode 8 - Changing Channels
The Trickster (guest star Richard Speight Jr.) throws Sam (Jared Padalecki) and Dean (Jensen Ackles) into an alternate universe where they are characters in different television series, including a sexy medical show, a Japanese game show, a forensics show and a sitcom. The brothers realize the only way to get out of this world is to play along and become the characters in the shows. However, Castiel (Misha Collins) appears and warns them this universe is dangerous and they must get out before they become trapped.
Supernatural: Episode 9 - The Real Ghostbusters
Super fan Becky (guest star Emily Perkins) uses Chuck's (guest star Chuck Benedict) phone to trick Sam (Jared Padalecki) and Dean (Jensen Ackles) into attending a Supernatural fan convention, complete with fans dressed up as Sam and Dean. One of the activities is a live action role playing game, but things quickly turn sour after a real ghost appears on the scene.
Supernatural: Episode 10 - Abandon All Hope
Sam (Jared Padalecki), Dean (Jensen Ackles) and Castiel (Misha Collins) track down the Colt and head off to find Lucifer (guest star Mark Pelligreno) to send him back to Hell. It's a hunters' reunion when the crew joins forces with Bobby (Jim Beaver), Ellen (guest star Samantha Ferris) and Jo (guest star Alona Tal) for what could be their last night on Earth.
Supernatural: Episode 11 - Sam, Interrupted
Supernatural: Episode 12 - Swap Meat
Supernatural: Episode 13 - The Song Remains The Same
Supernatural: Episode 14 - My Bloody Valentine
Supernatural: Episode 15 - Dead Men Don't Wear Plaid
Supernatural: Episode 16 - Dark Side of the Moon
Supernatural: Episode 17 - 99 Problems
Supernatural: Episode 18 - Point of No Return
Supernatural: Episode 19 - Hammer of the Gods
Supernatural: Episode 20 - The Devil You Know
Supernatural: Episode 21 - Two Minutes to Midnight
Supernatural: Episode 22 - Swan Song
Supernatural: Episode 1 - Exile on Main St.
Supernatural: Episode 2 - Two and a Half Men
Supernatural: Episode 3 - The Third Man
Supernatural: Episode 4 - Weekend at Bobby's
Supernatural: Episode 5 - Live Free or Twihard
Supernatural: Episode 6 - You Can't Handle the Truth
Supernatural: Episode 7 - Family Matters
Supernatural: Episode 8 -
All Dogs Go to Heaven
Supernatural: Episode 9 -
Clap Your Hands If You Believe
Supernatural: Episode 10 - Caged Heat
Supernatural: Episode 11 - Appointment in Samarra
Supernatural: Episode 12 - Like A Virgin
Supernatural: Episode 15 - French Mistake
Supernatural: Episode 16 - And Then There Were None
Supernatural: Episode 17 - My Heart Will Go On
Supernatural: Episode 18 - Frontierland
Supernatural: Episode 19 - Mommy Dearest
Supernatural: Episode 20 - The Man Who Would Be King
Supernatural: Episode 21 - Let It Bleed
Supernatural: Episode 22 - The Man Who Knew Too Much
Supernatural: Episode 1 - Meet the New Boss
Supernatural: Episode 2 -
Hello Cruel World
Supernatural: Episode 3 -
The Girl Next Door
Supernatural: Episode 4 - Defending Your Life
Supernatural: Episode 5 - Shut Up, Dr. Phil
Supernatural: Episode 6 -
Slash Fiction
Supernatural: Episode 7 - The Mentalists
Supernatural: Episode 8 -
Season Seven, Time for a Wedding!
Supernatural: Episode 9 - How to Win Friends and Influence Monsters
Supernatural: Episode 10 - Death's Door
Supernatural: Episode 11 -
Adventures in Babysitting
Supernatural: Episode 12 - Time After Time After Time
Supernatural: Episode 13 - The Slice Girls
Supernatural: Episode 14 - Plucky Pennywhistle's Magic Menagerie
Supernatural: Episode 15 - Repo Man
Supernatural: Episode 16 - Out with the Old
Supernatural: Episode 17 - The Born-Again Identity
Supernatural: Episode 18 - Party On, Garth
Supernatural: Episode 19 - Of Grave Importance
Supernatural: Episode 20 - The Girl with the Dungeons and Dragons Tattoo
Supernatural: Episode 21 - Reading is Fundamental
Supernatural: Episode 22 - There Will Be Blood
Supernatural: Episode 23 - Survival of the Fittest
Supernatural: Episode 1 - We Need to Talk About Kevin
Supernatural: Episode 2 - What's Up, Tiger Mommy?
Supernatural: Episode 3 - Heartache
Supernatural: Episode 4 - Bitten
Supernatural: Episode 5 - Blood Brother
Supernatural: Episode 6 - Southern Comfort
Supernatural: Episode 7 - A Little Slice of Kevin
Supernatural: Episode 8 - Hunteri Heroici
Supernatural: Episode 9 - Citizen Fang
Supernatural: Episode 10 - Torn and Frayed
Supernatural: Episode 11 - LARP and the Real Girl
Supernatural: Episode 12 - As Time Goes By
Supernatural: Episode 13 - Everybody Hates Hitler
Supernatural: Episode 14 - Trial and Error
Supernatural: Episode 15 - Man's Best Friend with Benefits
Supernatural: Episode 16 - Remember the Titans
Supernatural: Episode 17 - Goodbye Stranger
Supernatural: Episode 18 - Freaks and Geeks
Supernatural: Episode 19 - Taxi Driver
Supernatural: Episode 20 - Pac-Man Fever
Supernatural: Episode 21 - The Great Escapist
Supernatural: Episode 22 - Clip Show
Supernatural: Episode 23 - Sacrifice
Supernatural: Episode 1 - I Think I'm Gonna Like It Here
Supernatural: Episode 2 - Devil May Care
Supernatural: Episode 3 - I'm No Angel
© Unimatrix-One 2006-