The Sleepy Peach —: pride
Wednesday, June 29, 2011
pride
Since 2003, there have only been two years where I didn't attend a Pride parade.  One year I was in Santa Barbara for summer school; the other year I was studying abroad in England.  Now, living no more than two miles and as little as one
block
from All Things Seattle Gay Pride, it is interesting to look back at my high school and early-college days when taking a 45-minute BART ride into San Fransisco was no inconvenience at all.
So much has changed over the years, but one very important thing hasn't:  I'm still as supportive of equal rights and marriage for all who want it as I've ever been.
Last Friday night,
New York officially legalized gay marriage , becoming the most populous state in the nation to do so.  (Well, that is, unless you count California which is currently appealing the passing of Prop 8 at the federal court level.  I'll just have to wait to officially celebrate that accomplishment.)  While I may not be a resident of NY, I have many friends who are—many of which this directly effects.  When I heard the news on my way to a friend's apartment, I just couldn't contain myself!  Living in Capitol Hill, you could
feel
the excitement that this country has taken
one more step
towards true equality.
Lovebugs.
For those who don't support gay marriage (or civil unions, for that matter), the mention of "equality for all" is probably sounding a lot like a broken record.  Just remember this: over 50 years ago, when African Americans in the south were
finally allowed to step foot in "white" public schools , there was outrage against them... same as the outrage against gays and lesbians today.  Now, looking back at that dark-yet-inspiring time in history,
who
is remembered for their courage and strength?  And
who
is remembered for their hate and violence against others?
I want to tell everyone still standing against gay marriage (like those who stood for segregation, and against interracial marriage):
When you look back on today, 50 years from now, which side do you want to say you were on?
Okay, that's the end of my soapbox.
Pride weekend, every last weekend of June, has since its inception been a time for celebrating one's personal and social freedoms.  And despite its commercialization over the years, there is
love
there.  People accept everyone, without judgement or pause.  That is special, and that is the feeling I look for when I attend the Pride Parade each year.
For the second year in a row, I've had the pleasure of exploring Pride festivities and people-watching with the love of my life, and I'm thankful every day that I've been blessed with such a supportive, accepting and open-minded partner.  That's what
growth
in love and life is all about, right?  Learning to accept the things that simply are, and focusing on your happiness and that of those around you—without it being at the expense of others.
Seems simple enough, right America?  Only time will tell.
Sending love and good thoughts to all of my friends (gay or straight or otherwise), wishing you all a calm and safe summer of excitement.
* Flag image by Ludovic Bertron via
Flickr
EDIT:
Amazing quotes from the anti-miscegenation (i.e. anti-interracial marriage)
Wiki page
that Jon commented with...
Judge Leon Bazille of the Virginia trial court, 1965, defending a ruling against married interracial couple Richard and Mildred Loving
"Almighty God created the races white, black, yellow, and red, and he
placed them on separate continents.
And but for the interference with
his arrangement there would be no
cause for such marriages. The fact
that he separated the races shows
that he did not intend for the races
to mix."
US Supreme Court ruling in the case of Loving v. Virginia, 1967, which
made it unconstitutional for a state to outlaw interracial marriage
"Marriage is one of the 'basic civil rights
of man,' fundamental to our very existence and survival.... To deny
this fundamental freedom on so unsupportable a basis as the racial classifications embodied in these statutes, classifications so directly subversive of the principle of equality at the heart of the Fourteenth Amendment, is surely to deprive all the State's citizens of liberty without due process
of law. The Fourteenth Amendment requires that the freedom of choice to
marry not be restricted by invidious racial discriminations. Under our
Constitution, the freedom to marry, or not to marry, a person of another
race resides with the individual and cannot be infringed by the State."
WOW!  I mean.  WOW!
How are we still struggling with this issue?!
And how is GOD
still
being used to govern the laws of the state?  What year is this?  Who's running this country— Bloody Mary ?!?
My neck is aching from all of this constitutional whiplash.  Oy.
Posted by
Stacy
at
9:54 AM
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share to Pinterest
Tags:
gay pride ,
love ,
politics
4 comments:
shannon June 29, 2011 at 2:12 PM Beautiful! I couldn't have said it better myself. I love your angle of looking back on this time the way we now look back on segregation, not to mention pre-suffrage era. How do people not realize this is no different? Thanks for sharing. Oh, and that photo is gorgeous! Reply Delete film June 29, 2011 at 3:07 PM This comment has been removed by the author. Reply Delete film June 29, 2011 at 3:14 PM Truth! Not to mention Anti-Miscegenation laws... yeah, we had those too at one time... http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Anti-miscegenation_laws_in_the_United_States Reply Delete Kim June 30, 2011 at 10:21 AM It has been so many years since I've been to PRIDE, and I miss the excitement and the love that flow through the SF streets!
And strangely enough, I've never been to LA Pride while I've lived down here.
I'm determined to change that next year.
And your post = my thoughts exactly.
We talked about all this 10 years ago, it's insane that the country hasn't completely caught up. Reply Delete Add comment Load more...
I absolutely love hearing from you, even if you disagree with me, but please keep things cordial or your comment may not be approved. We're (probably) all adults here. And hopefully real humans too, because no robots will be allowed. Thanks!
Newer Post
Older Post
Home
Subscribe to:
Post Comments (Atom)
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
total pageviews
© Stay Hyatt | The Sleepy Peach. Powered by
Blogger .