The Winchester Brothers | Supernatural
The Winchester Brothers
Supernatural
Home
Home
Guestbook
Pictures
dean winchester bio
Dean pic
Dean and his baby
sam winchester bio
Sam Pic
Sam Crying
Sam and the Impala
John bio
John 195? -2006
Recaps Season One
Recaps Season two
fanfiction
quotes
BLOG
Forums
Dean!!!!!!!!!!!!!!1
dean crying
Background
Sam is quite different from his older brother,
Dean . He is rational, sensitive, and more concerned with a "normal life" than his brother. He also rebelled against his father's attempts to raise him as a demon hunter and enrolled in
Stanford University
instead. As the Winchester's would not have enough money to pay for Sam's enrollment he relied on receiving a full ride. When Dean came to ask Sam for his help in the first episode, the viewers are introduced to Jess (Sam's steady live in girlfriend) and it appears that he is quite popular. As well as that, is friends never knew what Sam's family were like or what they did. Brother Dean is the only person ever allowed to call him by his nickname Sammy.
He owns what appears to be a
Dell Precision
M65 laptop, which he uses to gather information for the hunts. The first time he uses the laptop is in the second episode " Wendigo " where he plays a video message.
Season 1
Sam Winchester was born on
May 2 ,
1983 . When he was only six months old ( November 2 ,
1983 ), his mother
Mary Winchester
was killed in his nursery by
The Demon . Infant Sam was saved when his older brother,
Dean Winchester
( Jensen Ackles ), ran outside with him while their father
John Winchester
went back to attempt to rescue Mary, who was stuck on the ceiling and consumed by the flames that later engulfed the entire house.
Twenty two years later to the day, the same demon killed Sam's girlfriend Jessica Moore, which spurs Sam to embark on a journey to find their missing father and get vengeance on the demon. While John Winchester is missing, he occasionally contacts the boys to leave them new missions to complete. The boys fend off mystical creatures such as the
Woman in White , the
wendigo , folklore's
Bloody Mary , and
shapeshifters . Through these missions, Sam begins experiencing episodes of
precognition
and once displays
telekinesis .
The season finale concludes with Sam, Dean, and their father John escaping from a clash with The Demon in Salvation, Iowa. While Sam is driving the Winchesters to a hospital after Dean and John were hurt, a truck crashes into them, causing massive damage to Dean's Impala with the Winchesters inside.
Season 2
In the beginning of the second season, Sam takes a more active role in the hunting. He tells Dean that this is what their dad would have wanted him to do. The Demon's plans for Sam are still unknown. Dean and Sam meet with three people that John once knew:
Ellen Harvelle , her daughter
Jo , and their computer genius associate
Ash . They assist the brothers in their hunting. In the episode " Simon Said ", Sam displays immunity to Andy Gallagher's power of mind control. He is also immune to the demonic sulfur virus in the episode " Croatoan ".
Since " Hunted ", Sam has learned what his father told Dean moments before his death: that the Demon plans to make Sam evil and use him and "the children like him" as soldiers in an upcoming war. Dean was told that if he could not save Sam, he would have to kill him. Sam is convinced that he must save as many people as he can in order to change his destiny, as stated in " Playthings " (while he is drunk).
In the episode " Born Under a Bad Sign ", Sam is possessed by the same demon responsible for
Meg 's possession in Season 1.
courtesy of : Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Š2007
Create a Free Website