HOE RIK DIT: December 2006
skip to main
|
skip to sidebar
HOE RIK DIT
100% ExPrEsSeD BuShIe StYle
Search n Ding...
Enter your search terms
Submit search form
Friday, December 29, 2006
2006 Message...
Holla Last freaky Friday of 2006 … Mense its weekend, and as the last hours and minutes to the last weekend of the year is here, there’s a buzz in the air …. If you going to be drinking and driving this weekend please take it extra easy on the roads, Metro police are heavy on the road blocks and I really don’t want to bring you KFC in jail on New Years Eve…. As some of you guy’s might know our site has been running for a few weeks now, and what an eventful few weeks. All I can say is that for 2007 we have big plans of growth for “ hoe rik dit ” and remember, all that won’t be possible without your support. I truly believe that we are a talented nation of great potential, with big ambition to achieve success and all this will be brought forward and achieved in the New Year. Success is achieved not by doing only what is comfortable and convenient.
Success is built by doing what must be done to reach it.
Success is achieved not by waiting until the last minute to get started.
Success is created by looking ahead and working to be fully prepared.
Success is achieved not by making a half-hearted effort.
Success comes when there is rock-solid commitment and real, meaningful purpose.
Success is achieved not by waiting for the lucky breaks.
Success is built by making the most of whatever circumstances and events may come along.
Success is achieved not at random.
Success happens when there is a decision and an effort and a commitment to make it happen.
Success is achieved not by a lucky few.
Success is achieved by anyone who chooses to create it. But what I’d really like to do is take this opportunity on half of the
vuilvuil crew
to wish all “ hoe rik dit ” much loved supporters a Prosperous 2007!! So mense remember to celebrate the last little moments of the year in the best way possible and end the year off on a good note. Much Love Nicholas Botha.
Made wys by
Admin
at
9:56 AM
Thursday, December 28, 2006
Results
Fede my ma se kinders, waar was jy toe southgate geskit het. My broe, it was mos off the hook jack! The gatas did try to put our party out but you know mos how you bushie's are. You always wanna force a jive but it's right. The medie's hond, last number of skirts, just fresh things. Those come out of the top shelf. People were happy, people were sad but they all were drinking, kak drunk. I left at half two and it was still shesha'ing. If you were not there then hard luck honne. Listen here, don't worry cause it's weekend and new years. You can catch up on your drinking. Good luck to those of you who are entering the world of work and studying and to those that didn't make, don't give up. Life goes on, just work hard and try your best. Ok mense, second half!
Made wys by
Lee-Boy
at
9:14 AM
Wednesday, December 27, 2006
Tribute Tuesday... " better late than never"
Since yesterday was a public holiday i missed my tribute tuesday post , but don't worry i never drank that much i still remembered to bring you something
fresh
and
pumpin.
Today's tribute goes out to the ever popular
E30 3 series
focusing mainly on the coloured brother's favourite
325is ... "Koosh".
And please don't tell me you never pictured yourselve rolling in one!!! The E30
automobile platform
was the basis for the 1982 through 1991
BMW 3 Series
entry-level luxury car
/
compact executive car . It was the successor of the
BMW E21
in 1982 and was replaced by the
BMW E36
in 1992.
BMW
continued to produce the cabriolet ( convertible ) E30 well into 1993. The M3 cabriolet was never officially offered for sale in
North America ; it was offered only for the
European
market. The famous
BMW M3
was first introduced on the E30 platform. A widened version of the E30 front suspension and the drivetrain from the E30 325i were used in the
BMW Z1
roadster . The E30 3 series was produced in four body styles, a 4 door saloon, a 2 door coach (actually just a 2 door variant of the saloon), a 5 door estate (marketed as the "touring"), and a two-door convertible. A
Baur
cabrio was also available. The 325ix was produced from 1988 to 1992, and featured all-wheel drive. It was available as a two-door (coach) or a four-door ( sedan ). The
BMW M3
utilised a widened and heavily redesigned and restyled variation of the 2 door body style. The M3 shares few parts with other E30 models. The primary distinctive feature of the BMW E30 models produced for the North American market in 1984-1987 are the elongated front/rear chrome bumpers. These bumpers are commonly known as "diving boards." In 1988, the chrome bumpers were shortened by revising the cover/fillers and shortening the shocks. In 1989 the chrome bumpers were finally replaced with shorter black plastic bumpers. The later model plastic bumper can fit onto a 1988 E30 without any modifications. This is not the case with E30s older than 88. The original chrome bumpers can be tucked in by draining the bumper shocks and compressing them to shorten the bumper. This, however, in the event of a collision, removes the ability of the shocks to absorb impacts and transfers the force directly to the chassis, which is more likely to cause serious damage even in low-speed scenarios. The cars were powered by a range of
inline 4 cylinder
( BMW M10
,
BMW M40
, &
BMW M42 ) and
inline 6 cylinder
( BMW M20
and
BMW M21 ) engines, with both petrol and diesel power. Power output for the engines ranges from 140 N·m (103 lbf·ft)
torque
for the 1.8
L
(1766 cc) 4 cylinder engine, to 230 N·m (170 lbf·ft) torque from the 2.7 L (2693 cc) 6 cylinder petrol engine. The E30
BMW M3
was fitted with a 4 cylinder engine ( BMW S14 ) producing more power, but less torque. Engines: Following on from the E21 the E30 was fitted with M10 4cyl and M20 straight six engines. The 316 used a 1766 cc M10 fed by a carburettor and producing only 66
kW
but this allowed BMW to offer a cheap entry level car in the range. The 318i used the same M10 but with Jetronic injection, pushing power to 77 kW/103 hp and improving economy. Finally the 320i (2.0 M20 with 92 kW/125 hp) and 323i (2.3 M20 with 111 kW/139 hp) completed the range. Later a 2.5 version of the M20 boosted the power of the top model to 120 kW/168 hp. In 1988 the E30 was revised. The revision contained two significant changes in the engine department. First the M20 straight six motors changed from Bosch Jetronic to Bosch Motronic, this boosted the 320i to 95 kW and the 325i to 125 kW/167 hp, all the while improving the economy, especially on the 320i. The M10 was replaced by the new belt-driven cam M40 which also incorporated Motronic injection. The new 318i now had 85 kW/114 hp and was noticeably smoother than the old 77 kW/103 hp version. The 316 was replaced by a 316i, which used a 1600 version of the M40 producing 75 kW/100 hp. Not quite as torquey as the 66 kW/88 hp 1800 M10 it replaced, it nevertheless offered superior performance. In some markets, like South Africa, the old M10 powered 316 continued a lot longer, gaining the new bumpers of the other models. In
South Africa
fans had to wait till 1991 for the 316 to make way for the 316i. Special models: In addition to the famous M3 there were other special models of the E30. BMW South Africa's Motorsport division created the 333i in 1986 by fitting the 3.3 M30 "big six" of the 733i to a 2-door E30. The resulting 333i was a major success in saloon car racing in that country and is now a collectors item. These cars, built with help from Alpina in
Austria , featured some interesting compromises like forcing the buyer to choose between air conditioning (vital in South Africa) or power steering. They were only built in small numbers in 1986. Later when it became clear that South Africa would not be getting the M3, the 325iS was created. Initially this was merely a 325i 2-door fitted with a bodykit and a close-ratio gearbox (improving acceleration at the expense of top speed and economy) but more changes where made to keep the car competitive in South African saloon car racing. Nevertheless, these cars were always sold to the public. This culminated in the 325iS EvoII of late 1991. By now several body panels were made of aluminum, preventing the car from being washed by automated car washes, and the M20 engine grew to 2.7 and now produced 155 kW.
Made wys by
Admin
at
10:27 PM
Festive
Ja ne, how was the Chrizana? Hope you were with the fam or with loved ones. Eish my Christmas was best. Blind drunk on the 24th, there was kinders and the ouens,
gang rum jack. The only problem is that i'm spanning until until but its ok, it's mos festive by the last and i'll show them i'll come to work late with a dik hangover. It's results again, hope you gonna be there cause if not then you gonna miss out honne. There's gonna be gang medie's and for the kinders there will be gang ouens. Plus its new years msk (ma se kind). What you gonna eat, where you gonna be, who you gonna tap? Eish one of the ouens have a vark house and we gonna party until the morning my broe. Well, see you by the results or the H2O or by whateva and i know there is gonna be some of you who is gonna job it by the moodie's but wherever you are make sure you're the drunkest and you get the most ass!!!!!!!!
Made wys by
Lee-Boy
at
10:52 AM
Playa's Guide................
Playa's Commandment #5 "If it ain't tight, it ain't right." New tight gear!!! Along with the season, gear is changing rapidly. I am currently re-vamping my wardrobe, and I'm lookin' hard at Nautica, Tommy, Polo, Perry and Ellis. Polo and Calvin Klein are consistently putting out fresh gear. Keep an eye on them. I know I am. Playa's Commandment #6 "It doesn't matter if you win or lose, as long as you look good." BACK TO THE TOP Hater Alert!-Watch Yo' Back, Playa! Since you've been inducted into the realm, you definitely have to watch out for pesky "haters". Everybody can't handle that you've got your sh*t together, so be on lookout for the signs of drama. Remember, even your best friend might play yo' ass out. Watch your significant other too, cuz the only trustworthy person you know is you! Trust yo' damn self. Grimms....In the realm of tightness, there are two classes of grimms. The following delivers an explanation: Grimms of Admiration- This is the "Damn I wanna be down" look, accompanied by staring and minimal eye contact. This usually occurs on an individual basis. The Hater's Grimm-" Who do you think you are, bitch??" glare accompanied by pointing, possible laughter, and the +/- 90 degree look up and down. These are from people without shit else to do. This behavior comes cliquish types. Beware of groups of more than 3- grimm concentration is high. These people are usually watching to see what you have on. This is why it's important to keep it tight. Counter this behavior by being cool and cordial. Grimmers hate it when you give them a reason to like you. Remember, grimms are dismissable. Usually grimms originate from admiration, anyway. Negros just wanna be down. Can you blame 'em. After all, your shit is tight? Keep on steppin'. Keep ya head up! Playa's Commandment # 7 "Keep it Simple." Life need not be complicated. Keep your life as simplistic as possible, w/o the un-necessary drama (listed below). Additional tight info - some people need it spelled out!!!!! Things to avoid: Lending Money. (Don't lend more than you are willing to lose. I try not to lend out shit.) Drama. (It comes in all shapes and sizes. Keep your mouth shut to minimize drama. Never induce drama.) Baby's Daddys. (Never a good situation.) Baby's Mamas. (Just as bad as baby's daddys.) Things to do: Pay yo' bills. (Bad credit ain't tight.) Get yo' papers. (Nuff' said) Get yo' education. (((It goes a long way. Intelligence is tight.) Hustle only if necessary. ((Hustlin' ain't a hobby. Do only what you have to do to get over.) BACK TO THE TOP Entity's Music Scoop!!!!!! Back to the Guide to Tightness, Part 2 Here is entity's scoop on current music. Click on the artist's name for bio-stuff. Get to clickin' already! Master P-
. The Last Don This entrepreneur definitely has what it take to be the "Don of Gansta Rap". Check out his entourage of No-Limit Soldiers. Lot's of No-Limit appearances, including Silkk, Mystikal, E-40, Snoop, Mia X, and more. Keith Washington- KW This album is fresh...despite criticism. More uptempo beats set this one aside from his previous work. He and Chante' Moore make a great team once again. Dru Hill-
. "Enter the Dru". These fella have a new album out. Check it out. Oh, and the video is funny as hell. Nokio- go on with yo sexy self. X-Scape- "Traces of My Lipstick" These ladies have certainly come a long way since "Just Kickin' It"! Thisalbum is bad as hell, with of course Jermaine Dupri producing the track. Winner! Gerald Levert- LP-Love and Consequences Tracks #2 and #10 make ya feel like cryin' with Gerald!!! The man has some serious relationship issues on this album, but I love it. Mya- Yes, I hate on her...but her cd is tight. Check it out. Tight beats. Brandy- Never Say Never I love to hate on her too, but "Angel In Disguise" (w/Joe) is fresh as hell. Gotta get it. Aaliyah- Isn't it time for a new album already??? Ginuwine- The new album is due in March! Jon B- LP-Cool Relax This CD is tha bomb! My fav's are "Whatcha Say Boo", and "They Don't Know". An R&B delight. Back to the Guide To Tightness, Part 2.
Made wys by
Lee-Boy
at
8:50 AM
Thursday, December 21, 2006
Playa's Guide...........
KEEPIN' IT TIGHT Entity lives by one of many quotes: "Tightness is a virtue". Use this quote as your guide into the realm of everlasting tightness, for it is a blessing. Everyday we must struggle to keep it tight, no matter what it takes. Some of us are given the gift of tightness at birth. Others must aquire it. Whatever the case, get it tight, or forever dwell in deepest, darkest, hell of "un-tightness". You don't wanna be there. It ain't pretty. Let entity show you some of her favorite gateways to the glory. Use with care, my children. CHAPTER 1
The rewards of tightness. CHAPTER 2
How to get it tight. Style. CHAPTER 3
Pursuit of everlasting tightness. Keepin' it tight. CHAPTER 4
How to set the playa's mood. Strategies for success. PLAYA'S COMMANDMENTS:
1 ,
2
, 3 & 4 CHAPTER 1-The rewards of tightness. The benefits of tightness are invaluable: Mad game, gear, props, envy, and monetary savings. Believe it. It's for real. So, go ahead- reap the rewards of being a playa. Besides, tightness gives you an excuse to be cocky. What more could you want? PLAYA'S COMMANDMENT #1: "Tightness is a virtue." CHAPTER 2- How to get it tight. Style. Scent: There are many places to begin, but hygiene is definitely number 1 on entity's list. Always be fresh and smelling good. Some of entity's favorite perfumes are Tommy Girl Cologne, Nautica woman, and a host of others. If you are a guy, Tommy or Coolwater will do just fine. Use what works for you, but never too much. Overkill can minimize tightness. Don't over-exert your effort for tightness. Gear: Always keep a neat appearance. Remember- IRONING BOARDS ARE YOUR FRIEND! Realize that you can never dwell in the land of the tight, if your gear is wrinkled. Also, make your best effort to be coordinated. Playa' s always match. Use your best judgement. For those with expensive taste. Don't get carried away. Yo ass will be broke. Recall that you have never seen a playa with dirty shoes on. Make sure your feet are nice-n-neat! Understand that entity is not saying you have to wear brand new Lacoste's. Whatever you have, keep it looking crisp and clean. It's not a bad thing to invest in new shoe-strings either. They work wonders for shoes. Kiwi sneaker white, shampoo, and protectant are definite tools to renew kicks that may be a little older. For those Rockport and Timberland players, shoe polish can go a long way to restoring original luster. Save money, and keep it tight. Jewelry: Overkill is a big anti-tightness movement. You don't have to have a 10 inch thick herringbone to be tight. Keep it simple, with just enough to accent what you got. Watches are cool, but avoid Guess. They are cute, but it's hell finding a replacement battery. Don't let 'em stick you for your papers. The ride: Whatever you do, keep your ghetto-sled clean and shining! The ride has to be clean! We all know that everybody doesn't have a Lexus, but it's all about taking care of what you have. Avoid Burger King bags scattered about the ride. If you smoke, don't do it in the ride. That shit will wreak like Debo's draws! If you choose to use air freshener, stick to subtle odors. Use what scent pleases you. I prefer to have a neutral smell in the car, so I spray the interior ever so often with a generic "Odor Gun". Oh, and don't put 3 Crowns in your back window. That spells out one thing-Yo ride stinks like shit! To keep the outside looking cool, a little wax and Armor All goes a long way. An easier way to go is "Black Magic" tire spray. It make your tires shine like new money. Just spray that shit on the tires, wait 2 minutes, and ride! I wash the rinse (or wash) the ride once a week. Usually, I just have dust on it, so a rinse is suitable. Oh, and have adequate sounds in the ride. Don't have a whack sound system. That ain't tight. PLAYA'S COMMANDMENT #2: "I shall always have a copy of "JOE-ALL THAT I AM" in the ride." CHAPTER 3 -Pursuit of Everlasting Tightness Alright... Now don't go getting yo'self tight for one day and then give up on the cause! Tightness has to be perpetual to be effective. Follow the guidelines everyday to achieve the higher level- "the glow of tightness". Once you reach this level, you can forever be tight, with the power to make fashion statements of your own. You will be able to define tightness as you wish, and others will automatically deem yo tight ass the "tight-playa". Remember, that it will take a lot of discipline to achieve this hiatus. One must practice diligently to achieve perfection. Note the following : PLAYA'S COMMANDMENT #3: "World class athletes practice, practice, practice. World class playa's practice, practice, practice." Get it tight, and keep it tight. CHAPTER 4 -How to set the playa's mood. Tips for success. Now that you have sucessfully achieved tightness, you need to establish yo player status. In order to do this, you need to be able to easily set the playa's mood, if you know what I mean. The following is designed to give you some ideas. Be creative, but remember not to f*ck up! You are representing "tight ass playa's around the world". Don't ruin the legacy. That would be bad. This is all you need: CD or movie of choice: Joe- All That I Am Kenny Lattimore- Self Titled Relaxing Sax- Generic Artist (Get that shit at Target!) or... Obtain a bootleg copy of "Love Jones" from the "D". Beverage: Chardonnay or White Zinfandel (Don't select Bartles & James. YUCK!) (Whatever your preference.) Don't f*ck up by providing a 40 ounce of magnum. IT-DON'T-WORK, wit yo ghetto ass! Lighting: Keep it dim. Up-lights are great for effect. Use them sparingly. Over kill is bad. Keepin it real: Don't use some lame-ass line. Be creative, but keep it real. If you stumble upon hard times, use the following generic strategy: Quote Joe. If you use these tips collaboratively, you will definitely set the ultimate playa's mood.
Made wys by
Lee-Boy
at
2:21 PM
Tribute continued...
Golf 3... The third-generation Golf was launched in November of 1991, although it did not appear in North America until the spring of 1993. The delay in North America was due to Volkswagen's decision to supply U.S. and Canadian dealerships with Mark 3 Golfs (and Mark 3 Jettas) from the VW plant in Puebla, Mexico. Quality control problems led Volkswagen of America to reject Golfs and Jettas from Mexico; shortly thereafter, labor unrest at the plant delayed production there even further. The third-generation Golf and Jetta finally made it to North America, first as 1993 models in the
San Diego ,
California
area, then in the fall in the rest of North America as 1994 models. Three-door Golfs of this generation were mostly only available in North America in GTI form. The 1993 through 1995 Golfs were called "Golf III" in North America to make it clear that they were different from the previous generation. The second-generation Golfs had increased insurance premiums, due in part to stereo systems that could easily be stolen, and the third-generation models were meant to correct that situation. Once the badge distinction was no longer necessary for insurance purposes, the Mark 3 Golf lost its
Roman numerals
suffix for 1996. The third-generation Golf was elected
Car of the Year
in 1992. For the first time a station wagon derivative was produced. The GTI variants (especially with the straight-four 4 cylinder engine) are considered to be the poorest of the performance Golfs, with significantly increased weight, but with minimal power increases. A "best of breed" VR6 variant exists which was available in a well regarded "Highline" trim; this 2.8 L VR6 engine gave a significant boost in power to 174 PS (128 kW/172 hp) for the Mark 3, a car weighing only about 1285 kg (2836 lb). Compare that to the Mk. II GTI that weighed 285 kg (629 lb) less but had only 139 PS (102 kW/137 hp) and a much smaller engine to tune (1.8 L). The convertible version was called the Cabrio. A 16-valve version of the third-generation Golf GTI was introduced in 1993. This model was greeted with a muted sense of disenchantment by the motoring press. The engine was enlarged to 2.0 L, with power now reaching 150 PS (110 kW/148 hp). While underpowered compared to the VR6, it was still relatively popular with driving enthusiasts in Europe (North America didn't get the GTI version proper, but had the name applied to the VR6 engine). Once again the Golf Driver version took its place as the official GTI-look-alike but with a more humble single-point injected 1.8 L engine. The Golf Mark 3 was also the predecessor of the diesel craze that swept through Europe in the late 1990s and early 2000s, when Volkswagen introduced the direct-injection system with the 90 PS Golf TDI in 1993. The 1996 TDI, at 110 PS (81 kW/108 hp) for a 1.9 L engine, wasn't the first diesel engine installed in a road car to achieve over 50 hp/L, but it showed the public that diesel engines could be powered without losing their fuel efficiency, while also retaining massive amounts of low-end torque, in the TDI's case, 235 N·m (173 lbf·ft) at 1900 rpm. Economical variety for diesel lovers was a 47kW, 65PS atmospheric diesel engine well known for its durability. During the 1990s, Volkswagen sponsored three high-profile rock bands' European tours, and issued a special-edition Golf, with distinctive exterior markings, for each: the Golf
Pink Floyd
Edition (1994), the Golf
Rolling Stones
Edition (1995), and the Golf
Bon Jovi
Edition (1996). In 1996 Volkswagen produced a limited 1000 special-edition 3-door "20th Anniversary" GTI models. These had the usual GTI specification but came with chequered Recaro sport seats bearing a GTI logo, red seat belts, half-chrome golf ball gear knob, red stitching on the steering wheel and on the handbrake gaiter and silver instrument dials. The red theme continued externally with a red striping on the bumpers and red brake calipers, the wheels were 16" split rim BBS alloys, visually similar to the 15" that were found on VR6 model. Brush stainless steel rear twin tailpipes on the exhaust and smoked front fog and indicator lamps to match the rear lamps. 3 optional extras were made available; electric sunroof, air conditioning and metallic black paintwork. Insurance was based on the standard GTI which made this version a very desirable model. The edition was sold in only 6 colour schemes and the 1000 number figures that were produced was as follows; 600 8 valve models, 150 16 valve models and 250 TDI models. The diesel model was only produced for the European market and wasn't sold in the UK. Together with the "colour concept" version that was produced during the final months before the production of the Mk. IV version, the 20th Anniversary model will probably be seen as the one of the rarest Mk. III models. The Golf Mark 3 was also available in "Ecomatic" Form. It was powered with a diesel engine and a clutchless manual transmission. The engine was switched off after 1.5 seconds of inactivity, whether by stopping or coasting. Re-starting the engine simply required depressing the accelerator pedal. VW had previously pioneered similar technology in the
VW Polo
"Formel E" in the 1980s. As with the Mark 1 and Mark 2, the Mark 3 would remain available in North America for a year after it was discontinued in Europe.
Made wys by
Admin
at
8:10 AM
CHRISTMAS............
Christmas Jump to:
navigation ,
search Christmas tree in a Danish home, 2004 Also called Christ's Mass Xmas Yule Observed by Christians around the world, as well as by non-Christians who observe the holiday's secular traditions. Type Christian Significance traditional birthdate of
Jesus Date December 25 (January 7 in
Old Calendarist
Orthodox Churches ) Observances religious services, gift giving, family meetings, decorating trees Related to Annunciation ,
Incarnation ,
Advent ; the winter holiday season Christmas or Christmas Day is an annual
holiday
that marks the traditional birthdate of
Jesus of Nazareth . Christmas combines the celebration of
Jesus' birth
with various other traditions and customs, many of which were influenced by ancient
winter festivals
such as
Yule [1]
and
Saturnalia . Christmas traditions include the display of
Nativity scenes
and
Christmas trees , the exchange of
gifts
and
cards , and the arrival of
Santa Claus
on
Christmas Eve . Popular Christmas themes include the promotion of goodwill, giving, compassion, and
quality family time . Christmas Day falls on
December 25 . It is preceded by
Christmas Eve
on
December 24 , and in some countries is followed by
Boxing Day
on
December 26 . Some
Eastern Orthodox Churches
celebrate Christmas on
January 7 , which corresponds to December 25 on the
Julian calendar . December 25 as a birthdate for Jesus is merely traditional, and is not thought to be his actual
date of birth . [2] Christmas is celebrated in most countries around the world, owing to the
spread of Christianity
and
Western culture , along with the enduring popularity of wintertime celebrations. Various local and regional Christmas traditions are still practiced, despite the widespread influence of
American
and
British
Christmas motifs disseminated by film, popular literature, television, and other media. Contents[ hide ] 1 Etymology 2 History 2.1 Pre-Christian winter festivals 2.1.1 Saturnalia 2.1.2 Natalis Solis Invicti 2.1.3 Yule 2.2 Origin of Christian festival 2.3 Middle Ages 2.4 The Reformation and the 1800s 2.5 The 20th century and after 3 The Nativity 4 Santa Claus and other bringers of gifts 5 Christmas tree and other decorations 6 Economics of Christmas 6.1 Commercialization of Christmas 7 Regional customs and celebrations 7.1 Social aspects and entertainment 7.2 Christmas carol media 8 Arts and media 9 See also 10 References 11 External links // Etymology In
Anglo-Saxon
times, Christmas was referred to as geol [3] , from which the current English word 'Yule' is derived. The word "Christmas" is a contraction meaning " Christ's
mass ." It is derived from the
Middle English
Christemasse and
Old English
Cristes mæsse, a phrase first recorded in 1038. [3]
The words for the holiday in Spanish (navidad), Portuguese (natal), and French (noël) refer more explicitly to the Nativity. In contrast, the German name Weihnachten means simply "hallowed night." Christmas is sometimes shortened to
Xmas , an abbreviation that has a long history. [4]
In early Greek versions of the
New Testament , the letter
Χ
(chi), is the first letter of Christ (Χριστός). Since the mid-sixteenth century Χ, or the similar
Roman
letter
X , was used as an abbreviation for Christ. [5] History Pre-Christian winter festivals Main article:
List of winter festivals A winter festival was traditionally the most popular festival of the year in many cultures, in part because there was less agricultural work to be done during the winter. From a religious point of view,
Easter
was the most significant feast in the church calendar. [6]
Christmas was considered less significant, and the
early church
opposed the celebration of birthdays of church members. [7]
The prominence of Christmas in modern times may reflect the continuing influence of the winter festival tradition, including the following festivals: Saturnalia Alleged representation of Christ in the form of the sun-god
Helios
or Sol Invictus riding in his chariot.
Third century
mosaic of the Vatican grottoes under
St. Peter's Basilica , on the ceiling of the tomb of the
Julii . Main article:
Saturnalia In
Roman
times, the best-known winter festival was Saturnalia, which was popular throughout
Italy . Saturnalia was a time of general relaxation, feasting, merry-making, and a cessation of formal rules. It included the making and giving of small presents (Saturnalia et Sigillaricia), including small dolls for children and candles for adults. [8]
During Saturnalia, business was postponed and even slaves feasted. There was drinking, gambling, and singing, and even
public nudity . It was the "best of days," according to the poet
Catullus . [9]
Saturnalia honored the god
Saturn
and began on December 17. The festival gradually lengthened until the late Republican period, when it was seven days (December 17-24). In imperial times, Saturnalia was shortened to five days. [10] Natalis Solis Invicti Main article:
Sol Invictus The Romans held a festival on December 25 called Dies Natalis Solis Invicti, "the birthday of the unconquered sun." The use of the title
Sol Invictus
allowed several
solar deities
to be worshipped collectively, including
Elah-Gabal , a Syrian sun god;
Sol , the god of Emperor
Aurelian
(AD 270-274); and
Mithras , a soldiers' god of
Persian
origin. [11]
Emperor
Elagabalus
(218-222) introduced the festival, and it reached the height of its popularity under Aurelian, who promoted it as an empire-wide holiday. [12] December 25 was also considered to be the date of the
winter solstice , which the Romans called bruma. [8]
It was therefore the day the Sun proved itself to be "unconquered" despite the shortening of daylight hours. (When
Julius Caesar
introduced the
Julian Calendar
in
45 BC , December 25 was approximately the date of the solstice. In modern times, the solstice falls on December 21 or 22.) The Sol Invictus festival has a "strong claim on the responsibility" for the date of Christmas, according to the Catholic Encyclopedia. [3]
Several early Christian writers connected the rebirth of the sun to the birth of Jesus. [13]
"O, how wonderfully acted Providence that on that day on which that Sun was born . . . Christ should be born,"
Cyprian
wrote. [3] Yule Main article:
Yule Pagan
Scandinavia
celebrated a winter festival called Yule, held in the late December to early January period.
Yule logs
were lit to honor
Thor , the god of thunder, with the belief that each spark from the fire represented a new pig or calf that would be born during the coming year. Feasting would continue until the log burned out, which could take as many as twelve days. [14]
In pagan
greater Germany , the equivalent holiday was called Mitwinternacht (mid-winter night), Wintersonnenwende (winter solstice) and there were twelve Rauhnächte (harsh or wild nights), filled with eating, drinking and partying. [15]
As
Northern Europe
was the last part to Christianize, its pagan celebrations had a major influence on Christmas. Scandinavians still call Christmas Jul. In English, the Germanic word Yule is synonymous with Christmas, [16]
a usage first recorded in 900. Origin of Christian festival Origen , a father of the Christian church, argued against the celebration of birthdays, including the birth of
Christ . It is unknown exactly when or why December 25 became associated with Jesus' birth. The
New Testament
does not give a specific date. [13]
Sextus Julius Africanus
popularized the idea that Jesus was born on December 25 in his Chronographiai, a
reference book
for Christians written in AD 221. [13]
This date is nine months after the traditional date of the
Incarnation
(March 25), now celebrated as the
Feast of the Annunciation . [17]
March 25 was also considered to be the date of the
vernal equinox
and therefore the creation of
Adam . [17]
Early Christians believed March 25 was also the date Jesus was
crucified . [17]
The Christian idea that Jesus was conceived on the same date that he died on the cross is consistent with a Jewish belief that a prophet lived an integral number of years. [17] The identification of the birthdate of Jesus did not at first inspire feasting or celebration.
Tertullian
does not mention it as a major
feast day
in the
Church of Roman Africa . In 245, the theologian
Origen
denounced the idea of celebrating Jesus' birthday "as if he were a king
pharaoh ." He contended that only
sinners , not
saints , celebrated their birthdays. [7] The earliest reference to the celebration of Christmas is in the
Calendar of Filocalus , an
illuminated manuscript
compiled in Rome in 354. [3] [18]
In the east, meanwhile, Christians celebrated the birth of Jesus as part of
Epiphany
(January 6), although this festival focused on the
baptism of Jesus . [19] Christmas was promoted in the east as part of the revival of
Catholicism
following the death of the pro- Arian
Emperor
Valens
at the
Battle of Adrianople
in 378. The feast was introduced to
Constantinople
in 379, to
Antioch
in about 380, and to
Alexandria
in about 430. Christmas was especially controversial in
4th century
Constantinople, being the "fortress of Arianism," as
Edward Gibbon
described it. The feast disappeared after
Gregory of Nazianzus
resigned as
bishop
in 381, although it was reintroduced by
John Chrysostom
in about 400. [3] Middle Ages Adoration of the
Magi
by
Don Lorenzo Monaco
(1422). In the
Early Middle Ages , Christmas Day was overshadowed by Epiphany, which in the west focused on the visit of the
magi . But the Medieval calendar was dominated by Christmas-related holidays. The forty days before Christmas became the "forty days of St. Martin" (which began on November 11, the feast of
St. Martin of Tours ), now known as
Advent . [20]
In Italy, former Saturnalian traditions were attached to Advent. [20]
Around the
12th century , these traditions transferred again to the
Twelve Days of Christmas
(December 26 - January 6). [20]
The evening of January 5 was called
Twelfth Night , a festival later celebrated in the
play of that name
by
William Shakespeare . The fortieth day after Christmas was
Candlemas . The prominence of Christmas Day increased gradually after
Charlemagne
was crowned on Christmas Day in 800. King
William I of England
was crowned on Christmas Day 1066. By the
High Middle Ages , the holiday had become so prominent that chroniclers routinely noted where various magnates celebrated Christmas.
King Richard II
of England hosted a Christmas feast in 1377 at which twenty-eight oxen and three hundred sheep were eaten. [20]
The Yule boar was a common feature of medieval Christmas feasts.
Caroling
also became popular, and was originally a group of dancers who sang. The group was composed of a lead singer and a ring of dancers that provided the chorus. Various writers of the time condemned caroling as lewd, indicating that the unruly traditions of Saturnalia and Yule may have continued in this form. [20]
"Misrule" — drunkenness, promiscuity, gambling — was also an important aspect of the festival. In England, gifts were exchanged on
New Year's Day , and there was special Christmas ale. [20] Often the "misrule" got quite out of hand. According to the
History Channel 's documentary, Christmas Unwrapped: The History of Christmas, there was even a Christmas custom pre-dating
trick-or-treat , in which revelers would knock at a door and demand the best portion of their host's food and ale, with "severe consequences" if he did not agree. Excerpt from
Josiah King 's The Examination and Tryal of Father Christmas (1686), published shortly after Christmas was reinstated as a holy day in
England . The Reformation and the 1800s During the
Reformation ,
Protestants
condemned Christmas celebration as "trappings of
popery " and the "rags of the Beast". The
Catholic Church
responded by promoting the festival in an even more religiously oriented form. Following the Parliamentary victory over
King Charles I
during
the English Civil War , England's
Puritan
rulers banned Christmas, in 1647. Pro-Christmas rioting broke out in several cities, and for several weeks
Canterbury
was controlled by the rioters, who decorated doorways with holly and shouted royalist slogans. [21]
The
Restoration
of 1660 ended the ban, but most of the
Anglican
clergy still disapproved of Christmas celebrations, using Protestant arguments. In
Colonial America , the Puritans of
New England
disapproved of Christmas; its celebration was outlawed in
Boston
from 1659 to 1681. At the same time, residents of
Virginia
and
New York
celebrated the holiday freely. Christmas fell out of favor in the United States after the
American Revolution , when it was considered an English custom. By the 1820s,
sectarian
tension in England had eased and British writers began to worry that Christmas was dying out. They imagined
Tudor
Christmas as a time of heartfelt celebration, and efforts were made to revive the holiday.
Charles Dickens ' book
A Christmas Carol , published in 1843, played a major role in reinventing Christmas as a holiday emphasizing
family , goodwill, and compassion over communal celebration and hedonistic excess. [22] During the early part of the 19th century, interest in Christmas in America was revived by several
short stories
by
Washington Irving
in
The Sketch Book of Geoffrey Crayon
and "Old Christmas", which depicted harmonious warm-hearted holiday traditions Irving claimed to have observed in England. Although some argue that Irving invented the traditions he describes, they were imitated by his American readers. [23]
The numerous
German
immigrants and the homecomings following the
American Civil War
helped promote the holiday by bringing with them
continental European
Christmas traditions still upheld in Catholic and
Lutheran
countries on the continent. Christmas was declared a U.S.
federal holiday
in
1870 . The 20th century and after "Now it is Christmas again" (1907) by Carl Larsson. In 1914, the first year of
World War I , there was an
unofficial truce
between German and
British troops
in France. Soldiers on both sides spontaneously began to sing carols and stopped fighting. The truce began on Christmas Day and continued for some time afterward. [24]
Although many stories about the truce include a
soccer
game between the trench lines, there is no evidence that this event actually occurred. In the later part of the 20th century, the United States experienced controversy over the nature of Christmas, and its status as a religious or secular holiday. Some considered the U.S. government's recognition of Christmas as a federal holiday to be a violation of the
separation of church and state . This was brought to trial several times, including in Lynch v. Donnelly (1984) [25]
and Ganulin v. United States (1999). [26]
On December 6, 1999, the verdict for Ganulin v. United States (1999) declared that "the establishment of Christmas Day as a legal public holiday does not violate the Establishment Clause because it has a valid secular purpose." This decision was upheld by the
U.S. Supreme Court
on December 19, 2000. Concerns regarding Christmas' combined Christian and secular nature continued into the 21st century. In 2005, some Christians, along with American political commentators such
Bill O'Reilly , protested against the perceived
secularization of Christmas . Some believed that the holiday was threatened by a general
secular trend , or by persons and organizations with an anti-Christian agenda. The perceived trend was also blamed on
political correctness . [27] The Nativity Adorazione del Bambino (Adoration of the Child) (1439-43), a mural by Florentine painter
Fra Angelico . Main article:
Nativity of Jesus The Nativity refers to the birth of Jesus. According to
biblical accounts , Jesus was born to the
Virgin Mary , assisted by her husband
Joseph , in the city of
Bethlehem . The birth took place in a stable, surrounded by farm animals, and the
infant Jesus
was laid in a
manger . Shepherds from the fields surrounding Bethlehem were told of the birth by an
angel , and were the first to see the child. [28]
Christians believe that the birth of Jesus fulfilled many prophecies made hundreds of years before his birth. Remembering or re-creating the Nativity is one of the central ways that Christians celebrate Christmas. The Eastern Orthodox Church practices the
Nativity Fast
in anticipation of the birth of Jesus, while much of the
Western Church
celebrates Advent. In some Christian churches, children perform plays re-telling the events of the Nativity, or sing carols that reference the event. Many Christians also display a small re-creation of the Nativity, known as a Nativity scene, in their homes, using figurines to portray the key characters of the event. Live Nativity scenes are also performed in some areas, using actors and live animals to portray the event with more realism. [29] Nativity scenes traditionally include
the Three Wise Men , Balthazar, Melchior, and Caspar, who are said to have followed the
Star of Bethlehem , found Jesus, and presented gifts of
gold ,
frankincense , and
myrrh . [30] In the U.S., Christmas decorations at
public buildings
once commonly included Nativity scenes. This practice has led to many lawsuits, as some say it amounts to the government endorsing a religion. In 1984, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled that a city-owned Christmas display, even one with a Nativity scene, does not violate the First Amendment. [25] Santa Claus and other bringers of gifts Main article:
Santa Claus Santa Claus hands out gifts during the US Civil War in
Thomas Nast 's first Santa Claus cartoon,
Harper's Weekly , 1863. In
Western culture , where the holiday is characterized by the exchange of gifts among friends and family members, some of the gifts are attributed to a character called Santa Claus (also known as
Father Christmas ,
Saint Nicholas
or St. Nikolaus,
Sinterklaas ,
Joulupukki ,
Weihnachtsmann ,
Saint Basil
and
Father Frost ). Santa Claus is a variation of a
Dutch
folk tale
based on the historical figure Saint Nicholas, or Sinterklaas, who gave gifts on the eve of his feast day of
December 6 . He became associated with Christmas in
19th century
America, and was gradually renamed Santa Claus or Saint Nick. In 1812, Washington Irving wrote of Saint Nicholas "riding over the tops of the trees, in that selfsame waggon wherein he brings his yearly presents to children." [31]
The connection between Santa Claus and Christmas was popularized by the 1822 poem " A Visit from Saint Nicholas " attributed to
Clement Clarke Moore , which depicted Santa driving a sleigh pulled by reindeer and distributing gifts to children. The popular image of Santa Claus was created by the
German-American
cartoonist
Thomas Nast
(1840-1902), who drew a new image annually, beginning in 1863. By the 1880s, Nast's Santa had evolved into the form we now recognize. The image was standardized by advertisers in the 1920s. [32] Father Christmas, who predates the Santa Claus character, was first recorded in the
15th century , but was associated with holiday merrymaking and drunkenness. [33]
In Victorian Britain, his image was remade to match that of Santa. The
French
Père Noël
evolved along similar lines, eventually adopting the Santa image. In Italy, Babbo Natale acts as Santa Claus, while
La Befana , is the bringer of gifts and arrives on the eve of the
Epiphany . It is said that La Befana set out to bring the baby Jesus gifts, but got lost along the way. Now, she brings gifts to all children. In some cultures Santa Claus is accompanied by
Knecht Ruprecht , or
Black Peter . In other versions,
elves
make the toys. His wife is referred to as
Mrs. Claus . The current tradition in several
Latin American
countries (such as
Venezuela ) holds that while Santa makes the toys, he then gives them to the
Baby Jesus , who is the one who actually delivers them to the children's homes. This story is meant to be a reconciliation between traditional
religious beliefs
and modern day
globalization , most notably the iconography of Santa Claus imported from the United States. In Southern
Germany ,
Switzerland ,
Austria ,
Südtirol
and
Liechtenstein
the
Christkind
brings the presents. The German St. Nikolaus is not identical with the Weihnachtsman (who is the German version of Santa Claus). St. Nikolaus wears a bishop's dress and still brings small gifts (usually candies,nuts and fruits) on December 6 and is accompanied by Knecht Ruprecht. Although many parents around the world routinely teach their children about Santa Claus, some have come to reject this practice, considering it deceptive. [34] Christmas tree and other decorations Christmas display in a Brazilian shopping mall Main article:
Christmas tree The Christmas tree is often explained as a Christianization of
pagan
tradition and ritual surrounding the Winter Solstice, which included the use of
evergreen
boughs, [35]
and an adaptation of pagan
tree worship . [36]
The English language
phrase "Christmas tree" is first recorded in 1835 [33]
and represents an importation from the
German language . The modern Christmas tree tradition is believed to have begun in Germany in the 18th century. [36]
From Germany the custom was introduced to England, first via
Queen Charlotte , wife of
George III , and then more successfully by
Prince Albert
during the reign of
Queen Victoria . Around the same time, German immigrants introduced the custom into the United States. [37]
Christmas trees may be decorated with
lights
and
ornaments . Since the 19th century, the
poinsettia
has been associated with Christmas. Other popular holiday plants include
holly ,
mistletoe , red
amaryllis , and
Christmas cactus . Along with a Christmas tree, the interior of a home may be decorated with these plants, along with
garlands
and
evergreen
foliage. In
Australia ,
North
and
South America , and to a lesser extent
Europe , it is traditional to decorate the outside of houses with lights and sometimes with illuminated
sleighs ,
snowmen , and other Christmas figures. Municipalities often sponsor decorations as well. Christmas banners may be hung from
street lights
and Christmas trees placed in the town square. [38] In the
Western world , rolls of brightly-colored paper with secular or religious Christmas motifs are manufactured for the purpose of wrapping gifts. The display of
Christmas villages
has also become a tradition in many homes during this season. Economics of Christmas Gifts under a Christmas tree. Christmas is typically the largest annual economic stimulus for many nations. Sales increase dramatically in almost all retail areas and shops introduce new products as people purchase gifts, decorations, and supplies. In the U.S., the "Christmas shopping season" generally begins on
Black Friday , the day after
Thanksgiving , though many American stores begin selling Christmas items in October and early November. [39]
In
England and Wales , the
Christmas Day (Trading) Act 2004
prevents all large shops from trading on Christmas Day. Scotland is currently planning similar legislation. Most
economists
agree, however, that Christmas produces a
deadweight loss
under orthodox
microeconomic theory , due to the surge in gift-giving. This loss is calculated as the difference between what the gift giver spent on the item and what the gift receiver would have paid for the item. It is estimated that in 2001 Christmas resulted in a $4 billion deadweight loss in the U.S. alone. [40] [41]
Because of complicating factors, this analysis is sometimes used to discuss possible flaws in current microeconomic theory. Other deadweight losses include the
effects of Christmas on the environment
and the fact that material gifts are often perceived as
white elephants , imposing cost for upkeep and storage and contributing to clutter. [42]
This is mitigated by
white elephant gift exchanges
in which participants make the best of their white elephants, and by
alternative giving . Some people have taken to selling their unwanted gifts shortly after Christmas on
online auction
sites. In North America,
film studios
release many high-budget movies in the holiday season, including Christmas films,
fantasy
movies or high-tone dramas with rich
production values . Commercialization of Christmas Since the late 1800's the economic importance of Christmas has lead to concerns over what is seen as the increasing commercialization of Christmas. The 1822 poem "A Visit from Saint Nicholas" had popularized the tradition of exchanging gifts and seasonal “Christmas shopping” began to assume economic importance. [43]
In her 1850 book "The First Christmas in New England",
Harriet Beecher Stowe
wrote a character who complained that the true meaning of Christmas was being lost in a shopping spree.
[44] The importance of the economic impact of Christmas was reinforced in the 1930's when President
Franklin D. Roosevelt
proposed moving the
Thanksgiving
holiday date to extend the Christmas shopping season and boost the economy during the
Great Depression . [45]
Religious leaders protested this move, with a 1931
New York Times
roundup of Christmas sermons showing the most common theme as the dangers of an increasingly commercial Christmas. [46] In 1958
Stan Freberg
and
Daws Butler
recorded the
audio theater
satire
Green Chri$tma$ , recasting
Ebenezer Scrooge
and
Bob Cratchit
in the roles of advertising executives. Due to the controversial nature of the piece, it received no commercial airplay until 1983. Regional customs and celebrations Many nations distribute
stamps
each year to commemorate Christmas. Austria, 1999 Main article:
Christmas worldwide Christmas celebrations include a great number and variety of customs with either secular, religious, or national aspects which vary from country to country: In the
Southern Hemisphere , Christmas occurs during the summer. This clashes with the traditional winter iconography, resulting in images such as a fur-coated Santa Claus surfing in for a turkey barbecue on
Australia's
Bondi Beach . New Zealanders also commonly celebrate Christmas at the beach, coinciding with the vibrant red flowering of the coastal
Pohutukawa
or " New Zealand
Christmas Tree". Japan
has adopted Santa Claus for its secular Christmas celebration, but
New Year's Day
is a far more important holiday. In
South Korea
Christmas is celebrated as an official holiday, and in
India
it is often called bada din ("the big day"). Celebrations revolve around Santa Claus and shopping. In
Poland , Santa Claus ( Polish : Święty Mikołaj) gives gifts on two occasions: on the night of December 5 (so that children find them on the morning of December 6), and on Christmas Eve (so that children find gifts that same day). In addition to the major observances of Christmas,
German
children also put shoes out at their doors on the night of December 5, and find them filled with candy and small gifts the next morning. Santa Claus ( Hungarian : Mikulás), or
Father Winter
( Hungarian : Télapó) also visits
Hungary
on December 6, bringing small gifts, and is often accompanied by a black creature called Krampusz; while on Christmas Eve (Holy Night - ( Hungarian : Szenteste)) the Little (Baby) Jesus ( Hungarian : Kisjézus or Jézuska) delivers the presents. In
Spain , gifts are brought by the Magi on Epiphany (January 6), and in
Scotland , presents were traditionally given on
Hogmanay , which is New Year's Eve. In recent times, both countries have also adopted gift-giving on Christmas Eve/Christmas Day. In
England
and
Wales , children traditionally hang up a
stocking
on
Christmas eve
(December 24), into which
Father Christmas
places gifts which are discovered and opened on December 25. The Declaration of Christmas Peace has been a tradition in
Finland
from
the Middle Ages
every year, except in 1939 (due to
World War II ). The declaration takes place in the Old Great Square of
Turku , Finland's official Christmas City and former capital. It is broadcast on Finnish radio and television.
Sauna
bathing has an important role in Finnish Christmas, often after the visit of
Joulupukki
on Christmas Eve. Saint Nicholas' Day remains the principal day for gift giving in the
Netherlands
while Christmas Day is a more religious holiday. In
Russia , Grandfather Frost brings presents on New Year's Eve, and these are opened on the same night. However, after the
Russian Revolution , Christmas celebration was banned in that country from 1917 until 1992. Even today, throughout the U.S. and Europe, several
Christian denominations , notably the
Jehovah's Witnesses
[1]
[2] , Puritans, and some
fundamentalists , view Christmas as a pagan holiday not sanctioned by the Bible. Social aspects and entertainment In many countries, businesses, schools, and communities have Christmas parties and dances in the weeks before Christmas. Christmas
pageants
may include a retelling of the story of the birth of Christ. Groups may visit neighborhood homes to sing carols. Others do volunteer work or hold fundraising drives for charities. On Christmas Day or Christmas Eve, a
special meal
is usually served. In some regions, particularly in
Eastern Europe , these family feasts are preceded by a period of fasting. Candy and treats are also part of Christmas celebration in many countries. Another tradition is for people to send cards to their friends and family members. The traditional greeting phrase on these cards is " Merry Christmas ". Cards are also produced with messages such as "Season's Greetings" or " Happy Holidays ", so as to include senders and recipients who may not celebrate Christmas . Christmas carol media Deck the Halls
( file info ) —
play in browser
( beta ) Deck the Halls Oh Holy Night
( file info ) —
play in browser
( beta ) Oh Holy Night Angels We Have Heard On High
( file info ) —
play in browser
( beta ) Angels We Have Heard On High , performed by Clarinet and French Horn Problems playing the files? See
media help . Arts and media Scrooge and the Ghost of Christmas present, by John Leech. Made for Charles Dickens's novel A Christmas Carol (1843). Main articles:
Christmas in the media
and
Christmas music Many fictional Christmas stories capture the spirit of Christmas in a modern-day
fairy tale , often with heart-touching stories of a Christmas
miracle . Several have become part of the Christmas tradition in their countries of origin. Among the most popular are
Tchaikovsky 's ballet
The Nutcracker
and
Charles Dickens ' novel
A Christmas Carol . The Nutcracker tells of a nutcracker that comes to life in a young German girl's dream. Charles Dickens' A Christmas Carol is the tale of curmudgeonly miser
Ebenezer Scrooge . Scrooge rejects compassion, philanthropy, and Christmas until he is visited by the ghosts of Christmas Past, Present, and Future, who show him the consequences of his ways. Some Scandinavian Christmas stories are less cheery than Dickens's. In
H. C. Andersen 's
The Little Match Girl , a destitute
little girl
walks barefoot through snow-covered streets on Christmas Eve, trying in vain to sell her matches, and peeking in at the celebrations in the homes of the more fortunate. In 1881, the Swedish magazine Ny Illustrerad Tidning published
Viktor Rydberg 's poem Tomten featuring the first painting by
Jenny Nyström
of the traditional Swedish mythical character
tomte , which she turned into the friendly white-bearded figure and associated with Christmas. Many Christmas stories have been popularized as movies and
TV specials . Since the 1980s, many video editions are sold and resold every year during the holiday season. A notable example is the film
It's a Wonderful Life , which turns the theme of A Christmas Carol on its head. Its hero,
George Bailey , is a businessman who sacrificed his dreams to help his community. On Christmas Eve, a
guardian angel
finds him in despair and prevents him from committing
suicide
by magically showing him how much he meant to the world around him. The
1964
stop-motion
version of
Rudolph, the Red-Nosed Reindeer , narrated by
Burl Ives , became an annual holiday tradition on television after its first telecast. Perhaps the most famous animated
television production
is the 1965 production
A Charlie Brown Christmas , wherein
Charlie Brown
tries to address his feelings of dissatisfaction with the holidays by trying to find a deeper meaning in them. This special is noted for one character's retelling of the first Christmas. The humorous
A Christmas Story
(1983) in which the main character dreams of owning a
Red Ryder BB Gun , has slowly become a holiday classic after receiving indifferent reviews, and is even repeated for 24 hours straight starting on Christmas Eve night and going on through Christmas Day on US
cable channel
Turner Network Television
or
TBS . On
British Television
it has become traditional for
Channel 4to
show the
animated film
of
Raymond Briggs ' The Snowman . A few true stories have also become enduring Christmas tales themselves. The famous newspaper editorial,
Yes, Virginia, there is a Santa Claus
is among the most well-known of these. Radio and television programs aggressively pursue entertainment and ratings through their cultivation of Christmas themes.
Radio stations
broadcast carols and
Christmas songs , including
classical music
such as the
Hallelujah chorus
from
Handel 's
Messiah . Among other classical pieces inspired by Christmas are the Nutcracker Suite, adapted from Tchaikovsky's ballet score, and
Johann Sebastian Bach 's Christmas Oratorio ( BWV
248).
Television networks
add Christmas themes to their standard programming, run traditional holiday movies, and produce a variety of Christmas specials.
Made wys by
Lee-Boy
at
8:07 AM
Newer Posts
Older Posts
Home
Subscribe to:
Posts (Atom)
Harrison Crump – Once again
Harrison Crump – Once again - Euphonik
JUMPAS
Almanak
Vuil News
Loading...
De Blom Spot
Sagte Video"s
Loading...
homies
Eddy
Admin
Lee-Boy
VUIL POSTS BACK IN THE DAYS!!
►
2009
(1)
►
March
(1)
►
2008
(4)
►
October
(1)
►
February
(2)
►
January
(1)
►
2007
(96)
►
December
(3)
►
October
(1)
►
July
(2)
►
June
(7)
►
May
(11)
►
April
(13)
►
March
(10)
►
February
(22)
►
January
(27)
▼
2006
(24)
▼
December
(24)
2006 Message...
Results
Tribute Tuesday... " better late than never"
Festive
Playa's Guide................
Playa's Guide...........
Tribute continued...
CHRISTMAS............
Christmas
Playa's Only
Tribute continued...
Tribute Tuesday...
some jokes to cheer up your babalaas Monday!!!
HOLLA, thanks for saturday guys. Here's one photo...
Let the Revolution Begin
Realization
Gammat....
A Special Word...
Met eish ja!!!
Gatiep en Gammat
Advice for 2007
gwarra vir n gwarra
To my fallen Niggas
if you were not there eish Haties!!!
SAGTE LINKS
Bruin-ou.com
emailjokes
muZikly-high
Puff & Pass
VUIL PHOTOS
vuil videos
KUIER GASTE
Vuil Gwarra
Jy't so n groot voorkop ...jy was met n laken.
I Luv bruin ou"s
No one like them!!
With Bruin Os, everything starts late! Everything ends late. Time is just a thang!
Bruin Os philosophy about time is, "We may not be on time, but we are in time, and we don't want to miss anything."
Bruin Os arrive late for weddings, funerals, and Sunday church services! And then act like they are on time!
Every family has a drunkard...
Their gospel choir can sing a three word song for twenty minutes.
In their church, the announcements are longer than the sermon.
Bruin O's cry and pass out at the funeral, but are fine and laughin' at the dinner following the interment.
Bruin O's will ask grandparents to watch their kids while they run an errand but don't pick them up until two days later.
Bruin O's refer to diabetes as, "Sugar."
Don't ask Bruin O's for the precise time. They respond, "Almost a quarter after...." or a "little after two."
Bruin O's stay engaged for six years and never get married.
Bruin O's put tamatie sous and green chillies on everything!
Bruin O's have at least one family member that "almost" made it as a soccer star.
Bruin O's re-use ZipLoc baggies, paper plates, plastic forks, spoons, and plastic knives.
Bruin O's put thin left over bars of soap in jars or plastic containers, run scalding hot water over them to melt them down to use as dishwashing liquid or home made bubble bath.
Bruin O's won't throw anything away! The rationale is that you never know when you might need it!
IN SPITE OF ALL OUR PECULIAR WAYS, I STILL LOVE Bruin O's! DON'T YOU??
Go on and smile...It is not that serious!
"Those who read are those who lead,
Those who don't, are totally deceived.
How will you grow, if you don't know?"
Being COLOURED in the work place
They take my kindness for weakness.
They take my silence for speechless.
They consider my uniqueness strange.
They call my language slang.
They see my confidence as conceit.
They see my mistakes as defeat. T
They consider my success accidental.
They minimize my intelligence to "potential".
My questions mean "I'm unaware".
My advancement is somehow unfair. Any praise is preferential treatment.
To voice concern is Discontentment.
If I stand up for myself, I'm too defensive.
If I don't trust them, I'm too apprehensive.
I'm defiant if I separate. Yet, I'm fake if I assimilate.
So, constantly I am faced with work place hate.
My character is constantly under attack.
Pride for my race makes me, "COLOURED".
Yet, I can only be me. And, who am I you might ask?
I am that Strong Person...
Who stands on the backs of my ancestor's Achievements, with an erect spine pointing to the stars with pride,Dignity and respect which lets the work place in South Africa know, that I not only possess the ability to
play by the rules, but I can make them
as Well! COLOURED History 365
U might be a Bushie...
If u know the meaning of "pap 'n tik"....
U might be a Bushie if "chupa's, mandela's, rooi sherbet and tama-lie-kie" was considered a luxury....
U might be a Bushie if u used to tape frm Radio Metro on a 2 for R5-00 TDK cassette....
U might be a Bushie if u invested in that moerse bottle of hair gel that the whole family could use...
You might be a bushie if you show up late for almost everything EXCEPT when entry to the " club" is FREE before 11:00 PM .
You might be a bushie if u call an older person you've never met before 'uncle' or 'aunty.'
You might be a bushie if you have an annoying nickname.
You might be a bushie if at least one of your family members is a teacher.
You might be a bushie if you have a party for a one-year old, and there is more adults than children.
You might be a bushie if you drink to drown your sorrows , you drink to celebrate your good times and when it's quiet , you drink to MAKE something happen !
You might be a bushie...if you calculate money owed to you in terms of cases of beer . (example: " That ou owes me R200 ...that's a whole 2 cases... ...maader!!")YOU ARE A BUSHIE if you got a shot of Jack in one hand and a shot of rum in the other and you fall hard down a flight of stairs without spilling a drop
You might be a bushy if you go to a family party and all the parents are having a better time than the kids.
You might be a bushie if you know what "gladdes" are and you know what it means when your hair has "gone home"... This one works on my nerves!
You must be a bushie if its ok to go shopping, visit neighbours or whoever and drive around town wearing hair rollers!
You might be a Bushie if you have a uncle who always dresses like an O.G (old gangsta ) and uses phrases like " Tigers dont cry my laaitie !"
You might be a Bushie if you' ve had pickled fish on Good Friday every year since you were a baby .
You might be a Bushie if you knew the words to all the Manhattans , Temptations etc. songs by the age of six.If ever you played a game called Kieriemeke ,KING , rounders, denne...youre a Bushie
You might be a bushie if your family only gets to get together at funerals and weddings and vow to keep in touch after that and then get together... at the next wedding or funeral.
You might be a bushie if the family gets together and there 's One uncle/cousin who is always in a rollery with another family member, but everybody smaaks him because he makes all the jokes .
You might be a bushie if Your sunday lunch consists of, roast (with potatoes), curry, boiled vegetables, rice, pumpkin, lettuce salad (all encompassing - could be greek or french...whatever), some salad with mint (and don't tell me mint sauce, been chowing this for years with chillies, and the boere only chow it with lamb anyway), some salad with mayo (potato or coleslaw) and it's perfectly normal. In fact, if anythings missing it's weird.
You might be a bushie if you're with some family members and one of the senior members gets dronk and feels this a good time to toets YOUR new car.
You might be a Bushie if ,you've ever uttered the words:"Hol hom in masenes
You might be a Bushie if the sound and mags on your car is worth more than the car itself .
I'm sure you get the picture.
Bruin-ou Link
Bruin-ou.com - The Brand, The People, The Lifestyle South Africa's only portal about the Coloured people of South Africa. For insight, news, views and discussions on topics related to Coloured identity in the new South Africa, get it all on Bruin-ou.com.
Baby Book