Backgrounds of the Restoration Movement: Heresy, Part 1 (Phinehas, the Nestorians) | One In Jesus
One In Jesus
Skip to content
Home About the Author Bible Classes Creation 2.0 Galatians: Free to Live for Christ John: “Who Is This “Son of Man”? The Story Contact How to Navigate the Blog Jay’s eBooks & Lectures Born of Water Buried Talents But If You Do Marry … Do We Teach Another Gospel? The Holy Spirit and Revolutionary Grace Lectureship Presentations Legal Muscle & a Shovel Reviews Progressive Church of Christ Blogs and Groups Restoration Voices Site Rules Reader-Recommended Churches
←
Conversation with Robert Prater (but with Rich, really): Stages of Faith, from the Comments
Ministers Guilty of Sexual Sin: Further Thoughts from the Comments
→
Backgrounds of the Restoration Movement: Heresy, Part 1 (Phinehas, the Nestorians)
Posted on
June 22, 2009
by
Jay Guin
First story
We all know about God’s covenant with Abraham.
(Gen 15:6)  Abram believed the LORD, and he credited it to him as righteousness.
The Old Testament has a surprising parallel —
(Psa 106:19-22, 30-31)  At Horeb they made a calf and worshiped an idol cast from metal. 20 They exchanged their Glory for an image of a bull, which eats grass. 21 They forgot the God who saved them, who had done great things in Egypt, 22 miracles in the land of Ham and awesome deeds by the Red Sea. … 30 But Phinehas stood up and intervened, and the plague was checked. 31 This was credited to him as righteousness for endless generations to come.
The Psalmist declares that Phinehas “intervened” and his work was credited to him as righteousness. What did Phinehas do to win such praise?
(Num 25:5-13)  So Moses said to Israel’s judges, “Each of you must put to death those of your men who have joined in worshiping the Baal of Peor.”
6 Then an Israelite man brought to his family a Midianite woman right before the eyes of Moses and the whole assembly of Israel while they were weeping at the entrance to the Tent of Meeting. 7 When Phinehas son of Eleazar, the son of Aaron, the priest, saw this, he left the assembly, took a spear in his hand 8 and followed the Israelite into the tent. He drove the spear through both of them–through the Israelite and into the woman’s body. Then the plague against the Israelites was stopped; 9 but those who died in the plague numbered 24,000. 10 The LORD said to Moses,
11 “Phinehas son of Eleazar, the son of Aaron, the priest, has turned my anger away from the Israelites; for he was as zealous as I am for my honor among them, so that in my zeal I did not put an end to them. 12 Therefore tell him I am making my covenant of peace with him. 13 He and his descendants will have a covenant of a lasting priesthood, because he was zealous for the honor of his God and made atonement for the Israelites.”
Phinehas was a grandson of Aaron, and by virtue of his zeal for the Lord, his descendants were to be priests before God.
In Deuteronomy, the Law of Moses declares,
(Deu 13:4-5)  It is the LORD your God you must follow, and him you must revere. Keep his commands and obey him; serve him and hold fast to him. 5 That prophet or dreamer must be put to death, because he preached rebellion against the LORD your God, who brought you out of Egypt and redeemed you from the land of slavery; he has tried to turn you from the way the LORD your God commanded you to follow. You must purge the evil from among you.
Abraham believed in God’s promises, and it was credited as righteousness. Phinehas killed an Israelite and his Midianite wife, who’d brought Baal worship to Israel, and that was credited as righteousness. Why did Paul use Abraham, and not Phinehas, as the foundation of his gospel?
In fact, many scholars conclude that that Paul consider Phinehas as his model — before Damascus. As Saul of Tarsus, Paul led an effort to purge Christianity from Judaism, surely seeking to follow in the footsteps of Phinehas and have his violence credited as righteousness. Saul approved the death of Stephen. And Saul of Tarsus was not alone. Phinehas was the hero of the Zealot movement, who justified taking up arms against the Roman idolaters on the same grounds.
But when Paul met Jesus (literally) on the road to Damascus, all thoughts of serving God through violence were gone. Paul taught righteousness through faith in Jesus — crucified and resurrected — the suffering Servant of Isaiah, rather than through zeal against heretics. We are to follow Jesus by following his example of service.
What happens when we equate a disagreement over the Bible with rebellion against God or idolatry? Well, like Saul of Tarsus we find ourselves following Phinehas rather than Abraham.
Second story
In the 5th Century, the church split over the Nestorian controversy. As explained by the
Wikipedia ,
Nestorianism
is the
doctrine
that the two individual natures of Christ, the human and the divine, are joined in conjunction (”synapheia”) rather than in
hypostatic union .
The doctrine is identified with
Nestorius
(c. 386–c. 451),
Archbishop of Constantinople . This view of Christ was condemned at the
First Council of Ephesus
in 431, and the conflict over this view led to the
Nestorian schism , separating the
Assyrian Church of the East
from the churches adherent to the First Council of Ephesus, among them being the Roman Catholic Church, the Eastern Orthodox Church, and the Oriental Orthodox Church.
Nestorianism originated in the Church in the 5th century out of an attempt to rationally explain and understand the
incarnation
of the divine Logos, the Second Person of the
Holy Trinity
as Jesus Christ. Nestorianism taught that the human and divine essences of Christ are separate and that there are two natures, the man Jesus and the divine Logos, united in Christ. In consequence, Nestorians rejected such terminology as “God suffered” or “God was crucified”, because the humanity of Christ which suffered is separate from his divinity. Likewise, they rejected the term
Theotokos
(Giver of birth to God/Mother of God) as a title of the
Virgin Mary , suggesting instead the title
Christotokos
(Giver of birth to Christ/Mother of Christ), because in their view he took only his human nature from his mother, while the divine Logos was pre-existent and external, so calling Mary “Mother of God” was misleading and potentially wrong.
Frankly, I think most modern day Protestants would find themselves preferring the Nestorian position to the orthodox position.
The controversy resulted in a split in the church, with Nestorian Christianity coming to dominate the world east of Palestine. Nestorians were effective missionaries, but their work was ignored in the West because they’d been declared heretics. Thus, tens of millions of believers, who spread the gospel from Jerusalem to Japan were forgotten by the European church. And when they were later persecuted to near extinction by the Moslems, the West paid very little attention. Why would we care about a bunch of heretics?
The result was for Islam to conquer Christianity in a world where the apostles themselves had once converted entire eastern nations.
Share this: Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window) Click to print (Opens in new window) Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window) Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window) Click to Press This! (Opens in new window) Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Click to share on Pocket (Opens in new window) Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window) Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window) Like this: Like
Loading...
Related
About Jay Guin
I am an elder, a Sunday school teacher, a husband, a father, a grandfather, and a lawyer. I live in Tuscaloosa, Alabama, home of the Alabama Crimson Tide. I’m a member of the University Church of Christ.
I grew up in Russellville, Alabama and graduated from David Lipscomb College (now Lipscomb University). I received my law degree from the University of Alabama.
I met my wife Denise at Lipscomb, and we have four sons, two of whom are married, and I have a grandson and granddaughter.
View all posts by Jay Guin
→
This entry was posted in
Restoration Movement ,
Uncategorized
and tagged
All ,
Christology ,
Church of Christ Links ,
Nestorians ,
Phinehas ,
Restoration Movement . Bookmark the
permalink .
←
Conversation with Robert Prater (but with Rich, really): Stages of Faith, from the Comments
Ministers Guilty of Sexual Sin: Further Thoughts from the Comments
→
7 Responses to
Backgrounds of the Restoration Movement: Heresy, Part 1 (Phinehas, the Nestorians)
Alan
says:
June 23, 2009 at 1:37 am
What happens when we equate a disagreement over the Bible with rebellion against God or idolatry? Well, like Saul of Tarsus we find ourselves following Phinehas rather than Abraham.
You can follow the example of both Phinehas and Abraham.
The two are not mutually exclusive.
In fact the whole point is that both of them illustrate how faith exhibits itself in action, and how God credits that kind of faith as righteousness.
Paul's problem wasn't his zeal.
The problem was that the zeal was misguided (unlike Phinehas).
And that's also the problem IMO with the modern day conservative zealots.
Todd
says:
June 23, 2009 at 2:47 am
I agree with Alan on this one Jay.
Following the example of Phineas is not in any way shape or form a problem for a believer so long as we actually know what
we are getting up in arms about.
Many could argue – successfully – that your zeal for the gospel of grace, your willingness to combat the heresy of "works" salvation, and your faithful devotion to this medium is in keeping with that zeal.
Saul of Tarsus's problem was not his zeal, but his understanding.
He uses the same zeal for Christ.
The difference being that Moses allowed us to spear God's enemies to defend the Truth while Jesus demands that we take the thrust ourselves.
J. T.
says:
June 23, 2009 at 3:19 am
<>
Paul renounced the misguided zeal of Saul as well as his violence. He retained his zeal for God. We need to do the same. We also need to recognize that "violence" does not have to be physical.
Todd
says:
June 23, 2009 at 3:29 am
Then Paul did not renounce all violence.
His writings retain quite an edge.
A Godly rebuke is a violent act.
It is also an act of love.
J. T.
says:
June 23, 2009 at 4:16 am
Rebuke in the spirit of gentleness, considering your own vulnerability to temptation is hardly an act of violence. (See Galatians 6:1-2.) To run rough-shod over people's feelings while pointing out their faults is violent.
Todd
says:
June 23, 2009 at 4:40 am
But the same phraseology offered in a "spirit of gentleness" by the speaker will be interpreted as running "roughshod over people's feelings" by the unwilling hearer.
So the violence or non violence of my words are subjective?
Truly a rebuke should be offered in love, but the act itself is verbal violence.
Correction is often gentle, rebuke almost never.
And Paul displays both gentle correction and verbal violence in his writings.
Now we must raise the question – does our definition of violence force the word into a sharply negative light?
Indeed the majority of modern references paint it so, but the word also means to compel, to use vehemence, highly excited moral action, that which produces a powerful effect.
nick gill
says:
June 24, 2009 at 5:21 am
Again, we come to a place that Eugene Peterson addresses!
I think I already shared an extensive quote from The Jesus Way on the word we typically translate "of one accord" (I'm in a car headed to DC, so I don't have any resources handy).
Eugene Peterson loves that word because he says Luke and Paul use it to capture all the passionate zeal of the Zealots without their violence.
Leave a Reply
Cancel reply
Search for:
Subscribe to RSS feeds   RSS - Posts   RSS - Comments
Table of Contents Table of Contents
Select Category
Index  (3,448)
Adult Bible Classes  (685)
1 Corinthians  (108)
1 John  (19)
1 Kings  (1)
1 Samuel  (12)
2 Samuel  (11)
Acts  (46)
Amazing Grace  (69)
Apologetics  (51)
Blue Parakeet  (29)
Creation 2.0  (36)
Faith Lessons by Ray Vander Laan  (51)
Galatians  (35)
John  (140)
Luke  (2)
Psalms  (1)
Sermon on the Mount  (42)
The Story  (36)
Bible Study Resources  (37)
Blogging  (7)
Book Reviews  (205)
Covenant: God’s Purpose, God’s Plan  (7)
Honor & Shame, by Roland Muller  (3)
How God Became King  (3)
Kingdom Conspiracy by Scot McKnight  (21)
Misreading Scriptures with Western Eyes  (14)
Muscle & Shovel, by Michael Shank  (31)
N. T. Wright’s After You Believe  (5)
Naked Gospel, The  (5)
NT Wright’s Surprised by Scripture  (1)
Paul and the Faithfulness of God  (22)
Sitting at the Feet of the Rabbi Jesus  (3)
The Advantage, by Patrick Lencioni  (24)
The Case for the Psalms, by N. T. Wright  (4)
The Death of the Messiah and the Birth of the New Covenant, by Michael J. Gorman  (7)
To Change the World  (17)
Christian Disciplines  (27)
Bonhoeffer’s Life Together  (12)
Community Disciplines  (3)
Christian Evidences/Apologetics  (60)
Archaeology  (5)
Scientific Creationism  (17)
Church & Politics  (30)
Church Finances and Business  (39)
Taxes  (13)
Church of Christ Doctrinal Issues  (604)
Age of Accountability  (17)
Christmas  (7)
Church of Christ Deism  (16)
Congregational Autonomy and Mergers  (17)
Denominationalism  (2)
Discipline  (6)
Divorce and Remarriage  (66)
Fork in the Road  (115)
The Way of UNITY between the “Christian Churches” and Churches of Christ  (6)
Why Can’t We Tell Right from Wrong?  (4)
Instrumental Music  (126)
Instrumental Music in the Old Testament  (11)
Quail Springs Church of Christ  (10)
Richland Hills, Instrumental Music, and the Future of the Churches of Christ  (6)
The Early Church and Today, by Everett Ferguson  (12)
Real Restoration  (52)
Real Worship  (32)
Renewing Our Worship  (52)
Role of Women  (89)
Sacramentalism  (12)
What Must be Preserved of the Churches of Christ?  (25)
Church Plants and Foreign Missions  (56)
Church Trends  (50)
Emerging Church  (19)
Should We Be “Emerging”?  (10)
House Churches & Institutional Churches  (10)
Lies About Christians  (3)
Churches of Christ  (235)
A Lover’s Quarrel  (13)
Churches of Christ in Decline  (49)
Fixing Our Universities  (6)
Gospel Advocate  (14)
Profiles in Apostasy  (3)
Progressive Churches of Christ  (32)
Replanting a Denomination  (18)
The Future of the Churches of Christ  (72)
Ancient-Future Assembly  (5)
The Future of the Progressive Churches of Christ  (47)
What Must the Churches of Christ Do to Be Saved?  (26)
Commenting  (13)
Communion Meditations  (41)
Counseling  (1)
Evangelism  (1)
Grace  (185)
Amazing Grace  (103)
Facing Our Failure  (3)
Faith That Works  (24)
GraceConversation.com  (15)
Hermeneutics  (203)
CENI  (22)
An Email about Authority and Mathematics  (5)
Covenant: God’s Purpose, God’s Plan  (7)
How to Argue Like a Christian  (20)
How to Study the Bible  (26)
Misreading Scriptures with Western Eyes  (16)
Regulative Principle  (21)
The Blue Parakeet  (27)
Holy Spirit and Providence  (82)
That Which Is Perfect  (12)
Jewish Roots of Christianity  (4)
Sitting at the Feet of the Rabbi Jesus  (3)
Leadership  (392)
Adult Bible Classes  (7)
Church Growth  (95)
Megachurches  (15)
Replanting a Church  (28)
What’s Wrong with How We Do Church  (12)
Church Ministries  (29)
Small Groups  (7)
Spiritual Formation  (7)
Deacons  (7)
Elders  (84)
Bad Elders  (8)
Good to Great  (3)
I Sold My Soul on eBay  (7)
Leading a Small Church  (3)
Leading Change  (26)
Litigation Between Brothers  (2)
Ministers  (28)
Multi-generational/Orange Ministry  (15)
Organizing Your Church  (7)
Overseeing the Moderate Church  (7)
Preacher Searches  (10)
Preaching  (4)
Sexual Ethics  (16)
Teams  (2)
The Advantage, by Patrick Lencioni  (24)
The Pain of Disappointment  (15)
Vision  (1)
Worship/Assembly Planning  (8)
The Proper Posture for Worship, in Seven Moods  (4)
Missional Christianity  (87)
Everything Must Change  (4)
Ministry Ideas  (20)
Radical  (8)
Resident Aliens  (8)
Simply Missional  (11)
New Wineskins Magazine  (26)
Parenting  (2)
Race  (1)
Restoration Movement  (49)
Sacraments  (174)
Baptism  (146)
Lord’s Supper  (32)
Sexuality  (80)
Homosexuality  (62)
Letter to a Gay Man in the Churches of Christ  (10)
Sex, the Church & Miss California  (13)
Technology  (1)
Textual studies  (390)
1 Corinthians  (107)
1 John  (19)
1 Kings  (1)
1 Samuel  (13)
2 Samuel  (12)
Acts  (46)
Colossians  (13)
Ephesians  (18)
Galatians  (40)
Hebrews  (1)
Luke  (6)
Philemon  (2)
Revelation  (5)
Romans  (72)
God Is Not Fair  (18)
Sermon on the Mount  (42)
Theology  (401)
Afterlife, The  (87)
Heaven  (62)
Hell  (24)
Atonement  (30)
Available Light  (46)
Calvinism  (81)
Election  (36)
God Is Not Fair  (1)
Neo-Calvinism  (8)
Perseverance  (12)
Searching for a Third Way  (21)
Connection of Church with Israel  (13)
Cruciform God  (17)
Gospel, What Is the?  (37)
Inerrancy and the Canon  (14)
Moralistic Therapeutic Deism  (6)
New Perspective  (19)
Pacifism  (29)
Story theory  (10)
Truth, What Is?  (5)
What Is Sin?  (8)
Thought Questions  (82)
Youth Ministry  (10)
Uncategorized  (4,423)
Recent Comments Gary
on
Salvation 2.0: Part 3.7: Justice Christopher
on
Salvation 2.0: Part 3.7: Justice Gary
on
Salvation 2.0: Part 3.7: Justice Christopher
on
Salvation 2.0: Part 3.16: David Bentley Hart’s “God, Creation, and Evil,” Part 9 buckeyechuck
on
Salvation 2.0: Part 3.16: David Bentley Hart’s “God, Creation, and Evil,” Part 9 Monty
on
Leadership: Revitalizing Bible Class, Part 1 Starling Jerry
on
Leadership:
Simple Church , Introduction Jo-Ann
on
Acts 2: Were the Apostles Baptized in Water? Part 1 Dwight
on
Leadership: Revitalizing Bible Class, Part 1 Monty
on
Leadership: Revitalizing Bible Class, Part 1 Dwight
on
Salvation 2.0: Part 3.19 The Principalities and Powers Dwight
on
Leadership: Revitalizing Bible Class, Part 1 Monty
on
Leadership: Revitalizing Bible Class, Part 1 Christopher
on
Salvation 2.0: Part 3.19 The Principalities and Powers Christopher
on
Salvation 2.0: Part 3.19 The Principalities and Powers Top Posts & Pages
Leadership: Simple Church, Introduction
Ray Vander Laan's "Follow the Rabbi" lectures
Hallelujah, performed with new lyrics by Cloverton
Leadership: Simple Church, Recruiting
Acts 2: Were the Apostles Baptized in Water? Part 1
Leadership: Revitalizing Bible Class, Part 2
Leadership: Revitalizing Bible Class, Part 1
U.S. Income and Employment Taxes for Missionaries (corrected and expanded)
Thrifty Christian Reader
Communion Meditation: A Lesson from an Eight-Year Old
Wineskins Magazine
Facebook page
Wineskins Magazine
Wineskins Featured Authors
Bobby Valentine: Notes at Facebook
Dan Bouchelle: Walking in the Reign
John Mark Hicks: John Mark Hicks Ministries
Jonathan Storment: Part of a Restoration Movement
Josh Graves: Exploring the Collision of Culture & Faith
Les Ferguson, Jr.: Desperately Wanting to Believe Again
Matt Dabbs: Kingdom Living
Patrick Mead: Tentpegs
Sean Palmer: The Palmer Perspective
Essential Reading
Mark Love: Dei-liberations
Richard Beck: Experimental Theology
Scot McKnight: Jesus Creed
Meta
Register
Log in
Entries
RSS
Comments
RSS
Wineskins.org
One In Jesus
Proudly powered by WordPress.
Follow
Follow this blog
Get every new post delivered right to your inbox.
Email address
Send to Email Address
Your Name
Your Email Address
Cancel
Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
%d
bloggers like this:
Skip to toolbar
Manage Subscriptions
View Job Listing
Log in
Register
Search