My Summer 2010 Tour:
Portugal
HubPages Sign In Help
22 report
HubPages » Travel and Places » Visiting Europe » Portugal
My Summer 2010 Tour:
Portugal Updated on April 23, 2012
See all 19 photos
“Estación de Autobuses de Granada” simply means Granada Bus Station. Like “ set a thief to catch a thief”,
one has to take a bus to reach the bus station as it is located far away in the outskirts of the city.
I approached the information-counter and wanted to know about bus timing for
Sagres . The counter clerk punched the name in acomputer but found no results. “No bus for Sagres”, he said. I was taken aback. So I ventured to ask, “Some other bus company?” “No other company” was the curt reply. I talked with his supervisor but it appeared that nobody knew about the place which was located at the south-western edge of
Portugal . It was a landmark and the mariners in the ancient world believed that it was end of the world and going into the water was to face the demons of the unknown.
I asked the counter clerk to give me a ticket to any other town a few stops before
Lisbon . Certainly, there was a communication gap as I was given a ticket far beyond Lisbon to a place called
Porto , up in the mountains.
If you don't know where you are going, any road will get you there
. So I boarded the bus to hack a 1,200 km distance in about 15 hours. It was awful but best advice would be to “ close your eyes and let your spirit soar
”.
See all 19 photos
Seville -Catedral de Santa Mara de la Sede
Courtesy Google Images - motorbike-tours.co.uk
Seville The first stop was
Seville , a gorgeous city with a river running through. It had magnificent castles and holy places including the third largest church in the world ( Catedral de Santa María de la Sede ).
Huelva
was next. Also known as ‘Coast of Light’, it had endless beaches, landscapes of pine and juniper. Soon the bus crossed the
Guadiana River
which formed the borders between Portugal and Spain. Being in
Schengen Zone , there were no immigration or custom controls.
Entering Portugal The bus passed by
Vila Real de Santo Antonio , a small town on the Portuguese side. The town was completely destroyed in 1755 earthquake but was re-built in just two years using pioneering technique of
prefabrication . The road beyond the town weaved through charming villages with strong castles. The terrain reminded me of “ A
Fistful of Dollars ” with unseen banditos eyeing from the rooftops..
See all 19 photos
Courtesy Google image -chooseportugal.com
Faro and Ourique About 48 km further, the bus entered
Faro . It had attractive squares and a ‘natural lagoon of the
Ria Formosa Nature Park
with its sheltered anchorages and spectacular bird life’. After Faro, the bus took a 90 degree turn and went up north seemingly on a " Road to Nowhere ".
About one hour later, the bus passed by
Ourique
which had witnessed battle between
Prince Afonso Henriques
and
Moors
led by
Ali ibn Yusuf . The area was dry but suitable for small scale grazing. There was a tranquil feel of the pace of life. Many small castles had been converted into
pousadas
which were surrounded by vast gardens. It was a place where storks glide, house martins dance and wild flowers bloom.
Further up, the terrain turned into sloping hills and the road started hugging the sea. The area was famous for the
sardine industry .
See all 19 photos
Fort Sao Felipe,Setbal
Courtesy Google Images - http://viajar.clix.pt/fotos.php?id=1554&lg=pt
The bus crossed
Setubal , a town with cobbled streets, fountains and gardens lending it a certain grace. An historic fort,
Sao Felipe , was sitting on a hill watching the city like a hawk.
Beyond Setubal, there were visible changes in the terrain. From dry, it turned into wet. It seemed a stopover for
migratory birds .
See all 19 photos
Bull fighting in Portugal
courtesy Google Images - blogs.reuters.com
The Pamplona of Portugal In the early morning, the bus reached Lisbon and I changed to another bus and continued the onward march. About an hour later, fine bulls were seen grazing in rich pasture. The bus was heading towards
Santarem
said to be "the
Pamplona
of Portugal," where there's the running of the bulls during July and October. In Portugal it is illegal to kill a bull in the arena, so it is “removed and slaughtered in the pens as fighting bulls are useful only once”.
See all 19 photos
Courtesy Google Images - actiontur.selfip.com
See all 19 photos
All Portuguese wished to be baptized and married in the church and to receive its last rites. There is a common saying to be Portuguese is to be Catholic."
A dip in the spritual world The bus was now dipping into the spiritual world. The world-famous pilgrimage site,
Fatima , was just ahead. It was there that the
Virgin Mary
revealed three secrets: World War II, Fall of Russia and the attempt on the life of
Pope John Paul II
in 1981 .
Throughout the year, pilgrims make their way to the
Basilica of Fatima , some on their knees. A daily torch-lit procession takes place at dusk ‘giving the site a constant atmosphere of spirituality’. There were dozens of springs with therapeutic value and windmills clacking in the breeze.
Beyond the Holy City, the route became scenic with vineyards, sugar-loaf hills and small rivers. Soon the bus slowed down for a brief stop at
Coimbra , a university town like Boston, USA. It was famous for its two festivals: Latada, to welcome the new students and
Queima das Fitas , at the end of academic year when “more beer is consumed than
Oktoberfest
in Munich, Germany.”
Another worth mentioning place on the way was
Averio
having many canals and lagoons. It had been appropriately described as
Venice
of Portugal.
See all 19 photos
Rotunda da Boavista is the largest square in the city named in honor of a war hero Joaquim Augusto da Boavista
Statue of King Pedro IV on a horse in Aliado Area.
Arriving Porto At long last, the bus entered the city of Porto but stopped abruptly by the side of a road. The driver called it a day and the passengers started getting down. It appeared that Porto had no central bus station but only make-shift arrangements.
After leaving the bus, I searched for a hostel suited to my budget. There was none but far away. Luckily, Proto was a city based on the peak of a hill and road to the suggested hostel was sloping downward. It was a breeze to drag the carry-on. In about 40 minutes, I reached the place, Hospedaria Nassa Senhora do Rosario, Rua do Rasario, Porto. For € 20 a day, I got a spacious room and hit the bed.
The hospedaria was quite near to Aliados which was termed as the “Monumental Heart of Porto”. It had a sloping boulevard with a central promenade. On the high-end stood the Town Hall, a palatial building with its 70 m tall bell tower. The lower side was occupied by Praca da Liberdade, a square adorned with a statue of King Pedro IV on a horse. There was a lot of hustle bustle of tourists; some cipping coffee at roadside cafés and watching the world go by.
See all 19 photos
Water-front of River Douro
See all 19 photos
Ponte de Dom Luis I that connect Porto to Gaia
River Douro While wandering in the streets of
Aliados , I came across a kiosk of ‘Hop-on Hop-off’ Bus and bought a 48-hours ticket for €13. Sitting on the rooftop of the bus, I had a glimpse of what Porto had to offer. There was a lot: old quarters filled with cafes, cathedrals, museums, forts and modern high-rise buildings.
﻿I got down at the last point, Ribeira, an old medieval town by the side of
River Douro . It had narrow, cobbled and winding streets. Its old houses were equally fascinating with colorful facades and terracotta roof tiles. There was a long line of bars and restaurants by the riverside offering a variety of foods and drinks. Besides, there were as many as six bridges spanning the river, the most spectacular being ‘ Ponte de Dom Luis’ .
See all 19 photos
Se De Porto
Courtesy :http://www.gooporto.com/porto-sights/porto-cathedral.html
In the downtown, I went to a fortress-like cathedral known as ‘ Se de Porto’ . It was originally constructed in the 12th century but underwent many alterations over time. As per guide-books ‘the rose window in the west front is the only remnant from the 12th century, a Gothic cloister was added in the late 14th century, and the main chapel was built in the 17th century. A staircase to upper levels was added in the 18 th
century.”
See all 19 photos
A lush-green sport complex in the downtown
Though I had planned for Sagres, I was dumped into Porto by some misunderstanding with Bus Company. But it was a blessing in disguise as Porto turned out to be a most beautiful city in Iberian Peninsula. There was no dearth of transport. Old trams were rattling in the city along with a most modern subway started in 2002 at a cost of €1.3 billion.
The food was good and rather inexpensive. Eating was a fun as the dishes were set on the tables with embroidered cloth. Seafoods especially cod fish were quite common. Pastries were specialty of the city. Of course, the city was famous for “ Port Wine ”. There were many wine museums and cellars offering free tasting.
See all 19 photos
A bridge on the river Duro
See all 19 photos
Plaza Lisbon
See all 19 photos
Courtesy Google Images - sacred-destinations.com
See all 19 photos
For going to Lisbon, I preferred train since the fare was the same, i.e. €20 but time and comfort were added advantages. I reached Lisbon in about three hours. Once out of the train station, I boarded a bus for Rosario, the main square. I had reserved a room in a guest house , Aljubarrota at Rua Da Assuncao N 53 4Th Floor, Baixa / Chiado, Lisbon. It was housed at the fourth floor of a 18th Century building and had no lift. It was an uphill task to scale 75 steps with luggage. I got a room for €30 with a spacious balcony overlooking the busy streets below.
In the evening, I set out for a walk in the Baixa District. It was the main shopping centre vibrating with old tramcars, street performers and vendors.
I stayed at Lisbon for three days. Two landmarks, Lisbon Cathedral and St George Fort , were nearby. In fact, I could see them from the balcony of my room.
The cathedral was built by Portugal's first king on the site of an old mosque in 1150. It resembled a medieval fortress with two bell towers and a splendid rose window. It had many sacred objects like a casket containing the remains of St. Vincent.
The cathedral was located at an elevated part of the city.  Further up  was St. George Fort. In old day, it used to protect settlement along the River Tagus. Nowadays, the bulky castle was crowning the most densely populated area, the Alfama.  Besides, the fort had some gardens where geese and ducks were roaming oblivious of the world around. The visitors were allowed to climb the towers and walk along the reconstructed ramparts of the castle walls enabling them to have a spectacular view of Lisbon and the Tagus River.
After visiting the cathedral and the fort, I had round of Alfama. It had narrow and winding streets flanked by old houses. It was like a trip in the time tunnel giving smells and sounds of old Lisbon. After the earthquake of 1755 while other areas were rebuilt, Alfama was simply restored to serve as a living history blending the past with the present.
See all 19 photos
Discovery Monument, Belem in the back ground of boats.
See all 19 photos
Courtesy: Google Image skyscrapercity.com
BELÉM
I went to Belem on train to visit the monument of
Padráo dos Descobrimentos . Before the monument, there was a mosaic decoration showing a world map with the routes of various Portuguese explorers. The monument itself was built in 1960 to celebrate 500th anniversary of Portuguese who took some part in discovery. It consisted of a 52 meter-high slab of concrete, carved into the shape of the prow of a ship. It had marble sculptures showing Henry the Navigator leading the discoverers including Vasco Da Gama.
Another important monument was “ The Torre de Belém ”. In old days, it served as military tower to guard the entrance of the Tagus River to Lisbon. Originally, it was built in the middle of the river but now stood on one side as the river had altered it course.
See all 19 photos
Chapel of St. Jerome in the Jernimos Monastery
Jerónimos Monastery
A trip to the
Jerónimos Monastery
was thrilling. It contained the tombs of King Manuel and other Portuguese Royalty as well as many important figures from Portuguese history.
A part of the monastic complex was the Chapel of St. Jerome, a small rectangular building with conical pinnacles at the four corners and stone "rope" along the roofline. In 1984, it was declared as World Heritage by UNESCO saying "Standing at the entrance to Lisbon harbor, the Monastery of the Hieronymites - construction of which began in 1502 - exemplifies Portuguese art at its best."
Leaving Europe On 21st July, 2010, I flew to Istanbul by Turkish Airlines. In the 30-day tour, I had spent about €3,600 (Equivalent to four lacs rupees) or €120 per day. It would have been much higher had not I travelled frugally, trying to save every penny. I spent another 15 days in Turkey and wrote two hubs: (i)
The Shrine of Hazrat Ayub Ansari
and (ii)
The shrine of Mevlana Jalaluddin Rumi .
I thought it was successful tour without any mishap. But not so !!! As per Italian Embassy's condition, I was to report back to thier Consulate at Karachi. When I went there, I was attended by a lady who asked me to show her my passport. She thoroughly examined it and got flared up when she saw a small ‘exit stamp’ of Portugal Immigration Authority. She started screaming “In your visa application, you said only Italy. How come you stepped out of it. It is a serious violation.” I replied very humbly, “I’m sorry, I didn’t know of this condition.” “Ignorance of law is no excuse”, she retorted at the top of her voice so that other offenders, if any, sitting the hall should take note of it. I just wondered over her attitude as the embassy had given me a card along with the visa which, inter-alia, stated that "a Schengen visa allows you to enter and to travel within the countries that are: Austria ...................... Switzerland." There was hardly any clue that, in my case, it was restricted to Italy.
I end this travelogue with this proverb which appropriately applies to me:
This is a truth as old as the hills that life and experience teach: “The poor man suffers that keenest of ills, an impediment of his reach.”
More in this Series 37 Pakistan Nagarpaker - Farthest City in South of Pakistan “You have itchy feet” shouted Rao when I suggested Nagarparker. When he didn’t agree to go there, I had to set sail all by myself. The recent rains had turned desert into green. There was no better...
31 Kenya Footloose in East Africa Part II Continued from Part I
On 27th July, 2011 I left for Arusha in the morning bus. It was a 14-hour drag but it remained mostly pleasant. It was broad daylight affording me an opportunity to view the landscape of open...
Follow (1) Comments
22 comments Go to last comment
Talat Qadir  5 years ago
Very nice account of travel....though the destination are quite unfamiliar...still enjoyed it thoroughly.Keep traveling and keep writing.
Ghazanfar Ali Khan  5 years ago
Hello Hafeez, At one time in history, Spain and Portugal were under the Muslim rule. Did you see any signs of that period in Portugal?
hafeezrm  5 years ago
from Pakistan
Hub Author
very few mostly mosques converted into churchs or building designs or layout.
If you require detail kindly go to this link: http://faculty.ksu.edu.sa/archaeology/Publications...
donna  5 years ago
Portugal sounds fascinating.
I would never have thought to tour this country.
I am so glad you decided to include it in your travels and provide such an illuminating and interesting tale.
Sandyspider  5 years ago
from Wisconsin, USA
Level 1 Commenter
Your trip sounded wonderful!
hafeezrm  5 years ago
from Pakistan
Hub Author
Thank you Talat and Sandyspider for your comments.
Michael Schmidt  5 years ago
I always enjoy reading Hafeez's travel blogs.
They're intersting, informative, inspiring, and often funny.
In fact I had the pleasure of visiting Porto & Lisbon and as always, Hafeez got it right.
He helped me relive that trip and to enjoy the pleasure of it all over again.
Thanks, Hafeez!
I'm looking forward to reading more of your travel blogs in the future.
Mohammad Sharif Shafique  5 years ago
Dear Malik: Your narration of Portugal and its cities has nearly persuaded me to visit it. The travell of Portual, no doubt is wonderful and worth readigh.
It gives all the necessary information along with photos to make it attrative and enjoyabe.
Keep it up. Mohammad Sharif
hafeezrm  5 years ago
from Pakistan
Hub Author
Thanks Michael and Sharif for your comments.
K9keystrokes  5 years ago
from Northern, California
This is beautifully written. I really enjoyed the images as well. Thank you for taking us on a trip to Portugal and the
its cities. K9
hafeezrm  5 years ago
from Pakistan
Hub Author
Thanks K9 for your comments.
UBEDULLAH KHAN MAHSOOD  5 years ago
Dear Hafeez ur Rehman MaLIK, Its very nice written, i feel that i am along with you during your portugal, specially i enjoyed the picture, thanks for your effort, i really impress with your work,
kamran  5 years ago
Portugal sounds fascinating.
Its very nice written, i feel that i am along with you during your portugal, specially i enjoyed the picture,sir long ago in history, Spain and Portugal were under the Muslim rule. Did you see any signs of that period in Portugal? Regards, Kamran Ahmed MBA Bahria University C/o Sir Ishtiaq Ahmed
hafeezrm  5 years ago
from Pakistan
Hub Author
Thanks Ubed and Kaman for your comments.
De Greek  5 years ago
from UK
Your travel adventures never fail to interest :-)
hafeezrm  5 years ago
from Pakistan
Hub Author
Thanks De Greek for your comments.
kamran qamar  5 years ago
sir. very well written. i feel like im in Portugal..u mesmerize with ur writings..kamran
hafeezrm  5 years ago
from Pakistan
Hub Author
Thanks Kamran Qamar for your comments.
faisal  5 years ago
osum sir , very well entertainment for us.....
asif jamal soomro  4 years ago
dear sir its nice to knw ur portgal visit iam thnkful of u, that u share great memories with us
David  3 years ago
I thoroughly enjoyed reading about your adventures, my wife and I wish to spend eight days in Portugal this July-August. Any advice since we only speak English and haven't been abroad very much?
hafeezrm  3 years ago
from Pakistan
Hub Author
Thanks David for visiting my page.
Portugal is a safe and tourist-friendly country, English is widely spoken and understood in all places.
I am sure you would not face any problem. Sign in
or
sign up
and post using a HubPages account. 0 of 8192 characters used Post Comment No HTML is allowed in comments, but URLs will be hyperlinked. Comments are not for promoting your Hubs or other sites.
working
hafeezrm 504 Followers 85 Hubs MORE BY THIS AUTHOR Managerial Accounting –Decision Making: Relevant Costs & Benefits Maldives - a cluster of beautiful
islands but not for backpackers CHILE IN WINTER Popular EDITOR'S CHOICE 39 Portugal 10 Products "Made in Portugal" You Should Check Out! by
Anna
EDITOR'S CHOICE 6 Portugal Visit Portugal: Road Trip Itinerary for Traveling South of Lisbon by
Anna
57 Portugal 12 Interesting & Fun Facts About Portugal by
Anna
Related EDITOR'S CHOICE 2 Plane Travel Cheap Flights To Portugal - Porto Airport Info by
Andria
10 Visiting Europe How to Plan a Trip to Portugal by
peachplanet
8 Portugal Lisbon Portugal What to do and what not to... by
joaoismail
EDITOR'S CHOICE 39 Portugal 10 Products "Made in Portugal" You Should Check Out! by
Anna
EDITOR'S CHOICE 14 Portugal Top Things to See & Do in Lisbon Portugal by
Anna
Click to Rate This Article How good is this article?
Please rate this article using the scale below. The scale is from 1 to 10, where 10 is the best and 1 is the worst.
Your Rating:
?
submit
HubPages About Us Copyright Copyright © 2015 HubPages Inc. and respective owners. Other product and company names shown may be trademarks of their respective owners. HubPages ®
is a registered Service Mark of HubPages, Inc. HubPages and Hubbers (authors) may earn revenue on this page based on affiliate relationships and advertisements with partners including Amazon, eBay, Google, and others. terms of use
privacy policy
(0.79 sec)
working