Living Space
St Aloysius Gonzaga, Religious, SJ (memorial) | Sacred Space
St Aloysius Gonzaga, Religious, SJ (memorial)
Commentary on St Aloysius Gonzaga, Religious, SJ (memorial)
Aloysius Gonzaga , who came from one of Italy’s most famous families, was born in the castle of Castiglione delle Stiviere, between Brescia and Mantua in northern Italy on 9 March, 1568   He was the eldest son of Ferdinando Gonzaga (1544-1586), Marquis of Castiglione and Marta de Santena, daughter of a baron of the Piedmontese Della Rovere family. His father wanted him to be a soldier as the family was constantly involved in local conflicts. His military training started at an early age but he also received an education in languages and other subjects.
At the age of eight he was placed in the court of Grand Duke Francesco de’ Medici in
Florence , where he remained for two years, before going on to Mantua.   While there he developed a kidney disease which was to trouble him for the rest of his life.  During his sickness, not unlike St Ignatius Loyola, he spent time reading lives of saints and praying.  He is said to have taken a private vow of chastity at the age of 9.  In November
1579 , he was sent with his brother to the
Duke of Mantua
where Aloysius was shocked by the violent and frivolous lifestyle he found there.
In
1580 , he returned to Castiglione where Cardinal (later St)
Charles Borromeo
discovered that Aloysius, already 12 years old, had not yet received his first
holy communion
and gave it to him on
22 July
1580 .  After reading about Jesuit missionaries in India, Aloysius had a desire to be a missionary himself and began giving religious knowledge classes to young boys in Castiglione.  He also used to visit some religious communities in the Duchy of Montferrat where his family spent their winters and to live a more ascetic lifestyle.
In 1581 the family was called to
Spain
to serve in the court of Empress
Mary
of
Austria . Aloysius and his brother Ridolfo became pages for the
infante
Don Diego,
Prince of Asturias .
It was while there that he made the resolution of becoming a
Jesuit , though he had first thought of joining the Capuchins. His mother agreed to but his father was violently opposed.
The family returned to Italy in 1584.  His family were still strongly against him joining the Jesuits and, when they realised he was set on the priesthood, tried to persuade him become a diocesan priest where there would be the likelihood that he could obtain a prestigious bishopric worthy of his rank.  If he became a Jesuit, such a future would be ruled out.  But Aloysius stood firm.  Finally, he was allowed to renounce his heritage in favour of his brother on 2 November 1585. This required the approval of the emperor, as Castiglione was a fief of the empire.
He went to
Rome
and, because of his noble birth, first had an audience with
Pope Sixtus V . On
25 November
1585
he was accepted into the Jesuit Roman novitiate by the superior general,
Claudius Acquaviva . He was asked to temper his ascetical ways as it upset his relationship with his fellow novices.  His health problems continued. In addition to the kidney disease, he also suffered from a skin disease, chronic headaches and
insomnia .
On 25 November 1587 he made his first vows as a Jesuit and, after receiving minor orders, began his theological studies.  In 1590 he had a vision in which the Archangel Gabriel told him he had less than a year to live.
In 1591, during his fourth and final year of
theology
a famine and plague broke out in
Italy .  The Jesuits opened a hospital for the victims and Aloysius volunteered to work there. In order to protect him, he was only allowed to work in a ward where there were no plague victims.  However, a man in his ward was infected and on
3 March
1591
Aloysius showed the first symptoms of the plague. It seemed certain that he would die very soon and he was given the Sacrament of the Sick. However, he recovered but in poorer health. During this time, he often spoke with his confessor, Cardinal
Robert Bellarmine . After another vision, he told Bellarmine he would die on the
octave
of the feast of Corpus Christi. On that day, 21 June, he seemed well in the morning but insisted he would die before the end of the day. Cardinal Bellarmine gave him the last
sacraments
and recited the prayers for the dying.  Aloysius died just before midnight on
21 June
1591 .  He was 23 years of age.
Aloysius was buried in the Church of the
Annunciation
in
Rome . Just before his death his name was changed to Robert, in memory of his confessor.  Later his remains were moved to the
Sant’ Ignazio
church in
Rome , where they now rest in an urn of
lapis lazuli
in the Lancelotti Chapel. His head was later brought to the basilica bearing his name in
Castiglione delle Stiviere .
He was beatified only 14 years after his death by
Pope Paul V
on
19 October
1605 . On
31 December
1726 , he was canonised together with a
Jesuit
novice,
Stanislaus Kostka , by
Pope Benedict XIII . The same
pope
declared Aloysius patron of young people in
1729 .
In
1926 , he was named P atron
of
Christian
youth by
Pope Pius XI . He has also been considered a
patron
of
plague
victims and, in recent years, this has been extended to victims of AIDS.
In many pictures he is shown as a young man wearing a black
cassock
and white surplice, or as a page. He holds a
lily , indicating his chastity, a
cross , indicating his piety and self-sacrifice, a skull, referring to his early death, and a
rosary , because of his devotion to the
Virgin Mary .
Comments Off
on St Aloysius Gonzaga, Religious, SJ (memorial)
Today
Wednesday
(October 28) Feast of Saints Simon and Jude, Apostles Ephesians 2:19-22
•
Luke 6:12-16
Living Space
If the texts are not presented correctly, please find them using the
search facility or the indices .
About Living Space
Dates
Tuesday
(October 27) Tuesday of the Thirtieth Week in Ordinary Time Romans 8:18-25
•
Luke 13:18-21 Wednesday
(October 28) Feast of Saints Simon and Jude, Apostles Ephesians 2:19-22
•
Luke 6:12-16 Thursday
(October 29) Thursday of the Thirtieth Week in Ordinary Time Romans 8:31b-39
•
Luke 13:31-35 Friday
(October 30) Friday of the Thirtieth Week in Ordinary Time Romans 9:1-5
•
Luke 14:1-6 Saturday
(October 31) Saturday of the Thirtieth Week in Ordinary Time Romans Rom 11:1-2a, 11-12, 25-29
•
Luke 14:1, 7-11
Search archives
You can search Living Space and find a partial index to Living Space content
here .
LivingSpace is part of Sacred Space -
www.sacredspace.ie
Sacred Space -  www.sacredspace.ie
Home
::
Pray online
::
Feedback
::
Living Space
::
Chapels
::
Novenas
::
Questions?
::
About Sacred Space
::
Donate
::
Contact us
the prayer site run by the Irish Jesuits
©1999
Sacred Space , 36 Lower Leeson Street, Dublin 2, Ireland
Printed from LivingSpace - part of Sacred Space
Copyright © 2008 Sacred Space :: www.sacredspace.ie :: All rights reserved.