7 7 7 9
?
LiveJournal
Find more
Communities
RSS Reader
Shop
Help
Login
Login
Join
English (en)
English (en)
Русский (ru)
Українська (uk)
Français (fr)
Português (pt)
español (es)
Deutsch (de)
Italiano (it)
Беларуская (be)
sekhmet_mau
Log in
Or connect using:
Facebook
Twitter
VK
Google+
Mail.ru
OpenID
Error
Username:
Error
Password:
Forgot password?
Remember me
Log in
Create an Account
Your OpenID URL:
Log in
Myspace
Recent Entries
Archive
Friends
Profile
7 7 7 9
notes on life.
kao "enjoy what you got while you got it and when it's gone, let it go." --krisstaar "The meeting of two people is like the meeting of two chemical substances. If anything happens, both are changed."
--unknown Hate, hate your enemies Save, save your friends Find, find your place Speak, speak the truth
--nirvana
March 2008   1
2 3 4 5 6 7 8
9 10 11 12 13 14 15
16 17 18 19 20 21 22
23 24 25 26 27 28 29
30 31
10 March 2008 @ 04:04 pm
Ololiúqui
Rivea corymbosa
(common synonym:
Turbina corymbosa ), is a species of
morning glory
plants, native throughout
Latin America
from
Mexico
in the North to
Peru
in the South and widely naturalised elsewhere. It is a
perennial
climbing
vine
with white flowers, often planted as an
ornamental plant . This plant also occurs in
Cuba , where it usually blooms from early December to February. Its flowers secrete copious amount of nectar, and the
honey
the bees make from it is very clear and aromatic. It is considered one of the main honey plants from the island. Known to natives of
Mexico
as
Ololiúqui
(also spelled
ololiuhqui
or
ololiuqui ), its seeds, while little known outside of
Mexico , were perhaps the most common
hallucinogenic drug
used by the natives. In
1941 ,
Richard Evans Schultes
first identified ololiuhqui as
Rivea corymbosa
and the chemical composition was first described on
August 18 ,
1960 , in a paper by
Dr. Albert Hofmann . The seeds contain
ergine
(LSA), an
ergoline
alkaloid
similar in structure to
LSD . The
Nahuatl
word
ololiuhqui
means "round thing", and refers to the small, brown, oval seeds of the morning glory, not the plant itself, which is called
coaxihuitl , "snake-plant", in Nahuatl, and
hiedra
or
bejuco
in the
Spanish language . The seeds, in Spanish, are sometimes called
semilla de la Virgen
(seeds of the
Virgin Mary ). The seeds are also used by Native curers in order to gain knowledge in curing practices and ritual, as well as the causes for the illness.
listen to the universe
18 April 2007 @ 09:07 pm
Astraea THE STAAR
In
Greek mythology ,
Astraea
("star-maiden") was a daughter of
Zeus
and
Themis
or of
Eos
and
Astraeus . She and her mother were both personifications of justice. Astraea was the last of the immortals to live with humans during the
Golden Age . As mankind became wicked, she was the last to stay on earth, ascending to heaven to become the
constellation
Virgo ; the scales of justice she carried became the nearby constellation
Libra . She is also the symbol for the Tarot Card Justice.
listen to the universe
13 April 2007 @ 08:10 am
herrrrrrrbs
Aquilegia canadensis
Folk Names: Lion's Herb
Gender: Feminine
Planet: Venus
Element: Water
Deity:
Power: Love, Courage
Medicago sativa
Folk Names: Buffalo Herb, Lucerne,
Purple Medic, Alfalfa Clover
Gender: Feminine
Planet: Venus
Element: Earth
Powers: Prosperity, anti-hunger, money NOTES:Like other legumes, its root nodules contain bacteria,
like
Rhizobium , with the ability to
fix nitrogen , producing a high-protein feed
regardless of available nitrogen in the
soil . Artemisia vulgaris
Folk Names: Artemis Herb, Artemisia,
Felon Herb, Muggons, Naughty Man,
Old Man, Old Uncle Henry, Sailor's
Tobacco, St. John's Plant
Gender: Feminine
Planet: Venus
Element: Earth
Deity: Artemis, Diana
Power: Strength, Psychic Powers, Protection,
Prophetic Dreams, Healing, Astral Projection NOTES: Chewing some leaves will kill the fatigue and stimulate the nervous system.
In the Middle Ages, mugwort was used as a magical protective herb. Mugwort
was used to repel insects, especially moths, from gardens. Mugwort has also been
used from ancient times as a remedy against fatigue and to protect travellers
against evil spirits and wild animals. Roman soldiers put mugwort in their
sandals to protect their feet against fatigue. Mugwort has an aromatic smell.
People can use Mugwort, sometimes mixed with other herbs, as a cheap substitute for
tobacco .
It can also be smoked mixed with or as a substitute for
marijuana ,
for it evokes a dreamy state of consciousness Much used in witchcraft, mugwort is said to be useful in inducing
lucid dreaming
and
astral travel . Smoking of mugwort,
or consumption of the plant or a
tincture
thereof,
prior to sleeping is said to increase the intensity of dreams,
the level of control, and to aid in the recall of dreams upon waking.
More safely, a pillow of dried mugwort leaves can be left under a dreamer's pillow
for the same effect because it contains a chemical called
thujone ,
which is toxic so should be used in much moderation in human consumption. Angelica Archangelica
Folk Names: Archangel, Masterwort
Gender: Masculine
Planet: Sun
Element: Fire
Powers: Protection, Healing, Exorcism, Visions
Deity: Venus NOTES: Chewing on angelica or drinking tea brewed from it will cause
local anesthesia ,
but it will heighten the consumer's
immune system .
It has been shown to be effective against various
bacteria ,
fungal infections
and even
viral infections .
Chamomile
Anthemis Noblis
Folk Names: Garden Healer, Maythen, Manzanilla,
Chamamelon, Camomile, Camomyle, Ground Apple,
Earth Apple, Melon Apple and Whig Plant.
Gender:
Masculine
Planet:
Sun
Element: Water
God: Amun Ra, Apollo, Buddha, Janus, Jupiter,
Herackles, Pluto, Woden, Angus
Goddess: Cerridwen, Iris, Ops, Vasudhara, Venus,
Astarte, Hathor, Ishtar
Tarot: The Empress
Color: Gold
Day: Wednesday
Magickal: Money, Love, Purification, New Life
{New Endeavors}, Meditations
Medicinal: Sleep, Analgesic, Antidepressant, Antirheumatic,
Dry Skin, Pink-eye, Kidney & Bladder Infections, Fever, Colitis,
Headaches, Indigestion, Menstruation, Vomiting, Warts, Eyestrain or Tired Eyes.
Culinary: Preservative, Meat Jams, and Teas
Cosmetic: Hair Rinse, Skin Creams, Skin Toners
Other Uses: Mildew Remover, Dye, Garden Healing
Parts Used: Flowers and herb
Lavendar
Lavendula officinale
L. vera
L. delphinensis
L. fragrans
Gender: Masculine
Astrological: Virgo
Planet: Mercury
Element: Air
Goddess: Iduna, Flora
Power: Love, Protection, Sleep, Chastity, Longevity, Purification,
Happiness, Peace, Clarity
Tarot: The Hermit
Mentha
minty
Folk Names: Garden Mint
Gender: Masculine
Planet: Mercury
Element: Air
Deity: Pluto, Hecate
Power: Money, Lust, Healing, Travel,
Exorcism, Protection
Mentha piperita
pepperminty
Folk Names: Brandy Mint, Lammint
Gender: Masculine
Planet: Mercury
Element: Fire
Deity: Pluto
Power: Purification, Sleep, Love,
Healing, Psychic Powers Mint was originally used as a medicinal herb to treat stomach ache and chest
pains. During the middle ages, powdered mint leaves were used to whiten teeth.
Mint tea is a strong
diuretic . Mint also aids
digestion . And soothes the throat.
HOLLY Ilex aquifolium
of
I. opaca
Folk Names: Aquifolius, Bat's Wings,
Christ's Thorn, Holy Tree, Holm
Chaste, Hulum, Hulver Bush, Tinne
Gender: Masculine
Planet: Mars
Element: Fire
Deity:
Power: Protection, Anti-Lightning, Luck,
Dream Magic Yerba mate
OR
Ilex paraguariensis IS a type of holly most commonly used for teas.
Users report a mental state of wakefulness, focus and alertness
reminiscent of most
stimulants , but often remark on
mate' s unique
lack of the negative effects typically created by other such compounds,
such as anxiety, diarrhea, "jitteriness", and heart palpitations.
listen to the universe
13 April 2007 @ 05:38 am
F O U R
:FOUR BASIC ELEMENTS: AIR FIRE WATER EARTH :FOUR BASIC QUALITIES: HOT COLD DRY moist.
listen to the universe
06 April 2007 @ 08:22 pm
sea diamond aka the birka princess
Santorini From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to:
navigation ,
search This article or section may contain
original research
or
unattributed claims . Please help Wikipedia by adding references. See the
talk page
for details. This article is about the islands. For other uses, see
Santorini (disambiguation) Coordinates :
36°24′N, 25°24′E Santorini  (Σαντορίνη)   Location Coordinates 36°24′N, 25°24′E Time zone : EET / EEST
( UTC+2 / 3 ) Elevation (min-max) : 0 - 300 m  (0 -  984 ft) Government Country: Greece Periphery : Cyclades Prefecture : Cyclades Population statistics (as of
2001 ) Municipality  -  Population : 13,600  -  Area : 73  km²  (28  sq.mi. )  -
Density : 186 /km² (483 /sq.mi.) Codes Postal codes : 1xx xx
Satellite image of Santorini. Clockwise from center: Nea Kameni; Palea Kameni; Aspronisi; Therasia; Thera Santorini
( Greek
Σαντορίνη) is a small, circular group of
volcanic
islands
located in the
Aegean Sea , about 200 km south-east from the mainland of
Greece . It is also known by the name of the 6th largest island in the archipelago,
Thera
(or
Thira ; Greek Θήρα) which is famous for the huge volcanic explosion which destroyed the settlements thereon, and created the current geological
caldera . It is the southernmost member of the
Cyclades
group of islands, with an area of approximately
73 km² (28 mi²) , and in
2001
had an estimated population of 13,600. Its spectacular natural beauty along with its eminent nightlife make the island one of
Europe 's top tourist hotspots. A giant central lagoon, more or less rectangular and measuring about 12 km by 7 km (8 mi by 4 mi), is surrounded by 300 m (984 ft) high sheer cliffs on three sides. The island slopes downward from the cliffs to the surrounding Mediterranean sea. On the fourth side, the lagoon is separated from the Mediterranean by another much smaller island called Therasia, also with cliffs. The lagoon is joined to the sea in two places, in the northwest and southwest. The water in the centre of the lagoon is nearly 400 m (1,300 ft) deep, so it is an ideal safe harbour for even the biggest ships. The island's ports are all in the lagoon and there are no ports on the outer perimeter of the island. The towns of Santorini cling to the top of the cliff looking down on the lagoon. It is the most active volcanic centre in the
South Aegean Volcanic Arc , though what remains today is largely a water-filled
caldera . The name Santorini was given to it by the
Latin empire
in the thirteenth century and is a reference to
Saint Irene . Before then it was called
Kallistē
("the most beautiful one"),
Strongylē
("the circular one"), or
Thera . The island was the site of one of the
largest volcanic eruptions
of the last several thousand years when it erupted cataclysmically about 3,500 years ago during the
mycenian
epoch. The eruption left a large
caldera
surrounded by
volcanic ash
deposits hundreds of feet deep, and its effects may have indirectly led to the collapse of the
Minoan civilization
on the island of
Crete , 110 km (70 mi) to the south. One popular theory holds that the Thera eruption is the source of the legend of
Atlantis
(see
below
for detail). Ionia From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to:
navigation ,
search This article is about the region of western Anatolia. For the group of islands west of Greece, see
Ionian Islands . For the municipality on Chios see
Ionia, Chios .
Location of
Ionia Ionia
( Greek
Ιωνία ; see also
list of traditional Greek place names ) was an ancient region of southwestern coastal
Anatolia
(in present-day
Turkey , the region nearest
İzmir ,) on the
Aegean Sea . It comprised a narrow coastal strip from
Phocaea
in the north near the mouth of the river
Hermus
(now the
Gediz ), to
Miletus
in the south near the mouth of the river
Maeander , and included the islands of
Chios
and
Samos . It was bounded by
Aeolia
to the north,
Lydia
to the east and
Caria
to the south. According to the universal
Greek
tradition, the cities of Ionia were founded by
colonists
from the other side of the Aegean and their settlement was connected with the legendary history of the Ionic race in
Attica , by the statement that the colonists were led by Neleus and Androclus, sons of
Codrus , the last
king of Athens . In accordance with this view the "Ionic migration", as it was called by later chronologers, was dated by them one hundred and forty years after the
Trojan war , or sixty years after the return of the
Heracleidae
into the
Peloponnese . Without assigning any definite date, recent research
as of 1910
has tended to support the popular Greek idea that Ionia acquired its Greek element relatively late — after the
Dorian invasions , and by extension, after the earlier Aegean period as well. The only Aegean objects yet found (1910) in or near Ionia are some shards of the very late
Minoan
age at
Miletus . It is improbable that all the Greek colonists were of the not numerous Ionian race.
Herodotus
tells us that the settlers were from many different tribes and cities of Greece (a fact indicated also by the local traditions of the cities), and that they intermarried with the native races. In Asia, Greeks were named with derivations of "Ionian", such as
Yona
in
Pali ,
Yavana
in
Sanskrit , and the
Modern Persian
Yūnān
for
Greece .
Josephus
relates the Ionians to the biblical character
Javan
son of
Japheth : "but from Javan, Ionia, and all the Grecians, are derived" ( Antiquities of the Jews
I:6). In Greek mythology,
Ion , regarded as the founder of the
Ionian
tribe, was the son of
Creusa
(daughter of
Erechtheus ); his father was either Creusa's husband
Xuthus
(according to
Hesiod 's
Eoiae ) or
Apollo
(according to
Euripides ).
Mood:
hungry Music:
the radiooo &icp
listen to the universe
15 March 2007 @ 03:41 am
librae 23
In
astrology ,
exaltation
is one of the five
essential dignities
of a
planet . Each of the seven traditional planets has its exaltation in one
zodiac
sign . The exaltations are: Sun
in
Aries , particularly in the 19th degree.
Moon
in
Taurus , particularly in the 3rd degree.
Mercury
in
Virgo , particularly in the 15th degree.
Venus
in
Pisces , particularly in the 27th degree.
Mars
in
Capricorn , particularly in the 28th degree.
Jupiter
in
Cancer , particularly in the 15th degree.
Saturn
in
Libra , particularly in the 20th degree.
listen to the universe
24 July 1985 @ 12:00 am
Planetary Symbols
The circle, long considered to be the most perfect shape, is an image of pure Spirit. The crescent is the symbol for the Soul. It can be seen, as here, reaching upwards towards Spirit, or, as in the symbol for the Moon reaching ‘backwards’ towards the past, or both backwards and forwards in the symbol for the planet Uranus. The vertical line is the symbol for Mind. The horizontal line is the symbol for Body. When Mind and Body are combined, they form the cross of matter. Symbols are complicated things since, as Jung observed, they can never be fully interpreted - they can only be experienced. Symbols transcend the split between the rational and the irrational, the known and the unknown.
Sun and Moon
The symbol for the Sun is pure Spirit with the dot of consciousness in the centre. The symbol for the Moon is pure Soul, with two - or sometimes three - arcs reaching ‘backwards’ towards the past. It is symbolically significant that in neither case is the cross of matter present. Earth
The Earth is the planet on which our lives become manifest, and the cross of matter is placed in the centre, surrounded by the circle of Spirit, within which all life is contained. Mercury Mercury contains all the symbols, signifying the potential integration of spirit, soul and matter and the synthesis of all the other planets, as well as the relationships between them. Soul - the mediating and connecting principle - is in the most elevated position, above the Spirit, with Matter at the base.
Venus and Mars
Venus and Mars symbolise the physical manifestations of the male/female polarity in the world. Originally, the symbol for Mars was the cross of matter above the circle of spirit, and the symbols therefore complement each other, with Venus elevating spirit over matter and Mars elevating matter over spirit.  In neither case is the symbol for the soul present.
Jupiter and Saturn The symbols for the next pair of planets, Jupiter and Saturn, concern the relationship between the soul and body. With Jupiter, the soul is elevated over the cross of matter, signifying the importance of finding a meaningful connection (soul), ‘something to live for’ in the manifest world. Jupiter frees the soul from the dominance of matter. With Saturn, the cross of matter is elevated over the soul, signifying that the soul’s yearnings must be given shape and form within the limitations of existence in time and space.
Uranus, Neptune and Pluto Uranus shows the cross of matter bracketed by two vertical lines of mind, over a small circle of spirit indicating the power of the mind to harness natural forces. An alternative symbol for Uranus replaces the two vertical lines of mind with two arcs of soul facing away from each other, one towards the past and one towards the future, harnessed by the cross of matter between them. Neptune is the crescent of soul impaled upon the cross of matter. Soul reaches upwards but is penetrated, or trapped, by matter. The symbol for Neptune, therefore, could be said to portray the soul’s suffering while it is encased in matter, and its longing to return to its source - the spirit. Pluto is a composite of all three symbols - the crescent of the soul enclosing a small circle of spirit, with the cross of matter below. Spirit could be said to dominate matter through the medium of the soul. An alternative explanation is that this symbol is a combination of the letters P and L, the initials of Percival Lowell, its discoverer. Chiron There are two possible explanations for this symbol. The first is to interpret the symbol above the circle simply as the letter K, after Charles Koval, the astronomer who first discovered Chiron’s presence in the solar system. Alternatively, we could interpret this as the vertical line of mind, from which two diagonal lines emerge, one moving upwards and the other moving downwards. The diagonal lines could represent the combined, integrated horizontal-vertical body-mind, reaching upwards the heavens and downwards towards the earth. Audience:   I can understand that the combination of mind and body makes the cross of matter and describes manifestation, or something real and tangible in this world, but I am not so clear how Spirit and Soul come into the picture, or what the difference is between them. Clare:   This is a huge question and, of course, very relevant from the point of view of astrology’s roots in the ancient mystery traditions. Although the birth chart describes our manifest lives in space and time, it always fascinates me that the great mysteries of the spirit and the soul always seem to hover in the background as we study and practice astrology, however pragmatic our approach. Jung observed that the spirit and the soul are present in all cultures, religions and languages but, being symbols of essence, they are almost impossible to define exactly. [13]
The Greek word
anemos
(‘wind’) refers to the ‘breath of life’ and from this root are derived the two Latin words
animus
(‘spirit’) and
anima
(‘soul’). This tells us that spirit and soul share the same source but, as James Hillman point out, ‘the ways of the soul and those of the spirit only sometimes coincide’
[14] . Rather, they reflect a fundamental tension in human life. Spirit and soul are symbols like yang and yin, representing two slants on life, two perspectives.
By analogy, spirit and soul are related to each other as the Sun is to the Moon and as masculine is to feminine, as Logos is to Eros, as Apollonian is to Dionysian, polarities which are reflected within every birth chart. The world of spirit, like the Sun, is ‘transcendent, blazing with light and fire’.
[15]
Spirit is ‘superior’, masculine, conscious, rational, transcendent, clear. It is the “highest goal of all development and evolution, and the ground of all life, as present fully in the beginning as in the end”.
[16]
The world of soul, or psyche, on the other hand, can be found in the diffuse impressions lying beneath the surface of everyday experience. Soul is vulnerable, it remembers and suffers. Soul is ‘inferior’, feminine, unconscious, dark, immanent. The soul is the mediating principle between the world of spirit and the realm of matter. Without soul there would be no connection between the spirit and the world.
listen to the universe
23 July 1985 @ 06:23 am
VENUS
As one of the two ‘feminine’ planets, the first point to make about Venus is that she is not the Moon. The Moon describes our deep emotional attachments and needs, whereas Venus is potentially a much more conscious principle which affirms the individual and describes our tastes and values and talents as well as our own individual appreciation of what is beautiful and valuable. Where Venus is concerned, beauty is definitely in the eye of the beholder. Venus is the power of attraction or, to put it another way, she is ‘pulling power’, which is a very powerful force indeed. Imagine that you are walking down a street and you see something in a shop window that attracts you. Before you realise what you are doing, you will find yourself walking towards it, because it is pulling you, whether it is a piece of jewellery, or a car part, or the latest computer, or a work of art. It attracts you, and there is a kind of fascination or mesmerising power. This is the power of Venus - she ‘turns us on’. A similar thing happens when we are watching somebody in a film who we find particularly attractive. Attraction is not confined to things or to people: we can be attracted just as powerfully to aesthetic values and principles, to brilliant minds, to ideals of justice and fairness, to qualities of courage and honour, to music, art and dance. Venus describes what gives us joy, regardless of the opinions of others. Whether or not our culture sanctions our particular individual pleasures, Venus needs to be fulfilled if we are to find joy in our lives. This is not as easy as it sounds because the Venus principle has become so collectively mistrusted, judged and distorted that we don’t have to delve very far into our religious or cultural backgrounds before we find that ‘woman’ (Venus) is self-indulgent, selfish, lustful, greedy, dangerous, devouring, seductive, desireful and, not uncommonly, plain evil. The Venus principle seems to have become socially and culturally acceptable only to the extent that it has been channelled into the accumulation of wealth and possessions which, when achieved, often prove to have been distractions, empty substitutes for the true joy and pleasure we were seeking. So Venus needs to be redeemed both culturally and on a personal level. In my experience, there is almost always important work to be done according to the placement of Venus in our birth charts. It is almost the norm that we will be denying ourselves the full creative expression of Venus in our charts.
Venus has rulership over two zodiac signs, one positive and active and one negative and passive, which can be associated to Venus as the morning star and as the evening star. Venus rules the negative earth sign of Taurus and the positive air sign of Libra. So Venus rules both the earthy, sensual, gentle sign of Taurus and the aesthetic, civilised, principled values of the sign of Libra.
You will see from the table of planetary correspondences that Venus rules fruit and flowers, both symbols of the feminine. Beauty, wealth, comfort, jewellery, cosmetics are all ruled by Venus, as are the colours of nature, pale blues and pinks. As ruler of Libra, Venus is associated with all the civilised arts, with justice, diplomacy, equality, compatibility. Her metal is copper, which is a beautiful soft, glowing metal. In the body, Venus rules the neck and the throat.  As ruler of Libra, Venus rules the kidneys, whose function is to keep the body in balance and in harmony with itself. Venusian people can be artists and musicians, of course, or jewellers, models or bankers, since money is such a symbol of worth; diplomats, receptionists, beauticians, farmers. In the mundane world Venus rules gardens, wardrobes, dressing tables, cosmetics, art galleries and concert halls - everything and anything which makes life more harmonious, peaceful and beautiful. As the planet which describes our taste and values and talents, what is of worth to us, even what makes life worth living, Venus needs to be indulged.  Now, if we deny ourselves the positive expression of Venus in our charts, Venus doesn't go away; she gets angry. Every personal planet needs to be fully acknowledged and encouraged. If Venus gets what she wants, she will be satisfied and fulfilled. If she is denied what she wants, she will become voracious, vicious and demanding, often with devastating results. Venus gives us a sense of beauty, the enjoyment of pleasure, aesthetic awareness, love of harmony, sociability, taking pleasure in relationships and eroticism. Orbit from Sun: 108'200'000 km Period: 225 Days RULER OF TAURUS RULER OF LIBRA THE LOVER
Mood:
ARIES
listen to the universe
23 July 1985 @ 06:22 am
MERCURY
Unlike the other planets of the old world, Mercury doesn't have an opposite or a partner because, as a symbol of paradox and contradiction, it contains all the opposites within itself. Mercury is androgynous, both male and female. It is both divisive and integrative. As the planet closest to the Sun, Mercury is the smallest and fastest, with an orbit of only 88 days. From its astronomy you can immediately see where some of our associations to Mercury come from. It darts quickly around the Sun; sometimes you see it, sometimes you don’t. Sometimes it appears to be travelling in one direction, and sometimes in another.
In mythology, Mercury is the messenger of the gods, a trickster and a theif. His image is that of a young boy with a winged helmet and winged sandals, holding a caduceus, a staff with two entwined serpents, often used today as a symbol for healing and medicine. Mercury is the carrier of messages and information. He has no interest in the content of the message itself: his task is simply to act as a go-between. In this sense, Mercury has no preference for right over wrong or for truth over lies. He would just as happily spread scandal and gossip as any other kind of information. He is versatile, witty, amoral, unreliable and ethereal, a kind of Puck figure
from A Midsummer Night’s Dream
or Ariel from
The Tempest , or Peter Pan, who never wanted to grow up.
He is perfectly happy to
put the cat amongst the pigeons and stand back and watch the result. This is where Mercury’s association with the rogue, the trickster, the card-sharp and the thief come from. When we describe people as ‘mercurial’, we mean that they are clever, certainly, but also that they are wheeler-dealers and possibly a bit dodgy.
A distorted Mercury can express itself through cunning and trickery, cheating and lying, as destructive criticism and verbal cruelty, or as a profound level of anxiety, fear and tension which erodes the immune system and undermines the body. Any of these manifestations may indicate that the archetypal gifts of Mercury, perception, intelligence, knowledge, gentle humour, genuine modesty and self confidence have been undermined by an individual’s negative experiences of the world.
Mercury rules the brain, the mind and the thinking processes. It is bi-polar, ruling both left and right brain - logical thought (where something cannot be both A and not-A) and analogical thought (where something can be both A and not-A). From this point of view, Mercury rules double meanings, and double talk, double sight,
double entendres , crosswords (vertical and horizontal thinking), humour and jokes. These would all be instances of seeing or hearing one thing, and then a moment later finding a deeper or different meaning to what has been said. The Freudian slip is a good example of the way Mercury functions. There is a fascination with language and with words and the connections between them. So this Hermes figure is very hard to pin down, very volatile and very tricky. It is no coincidence, for example, that we say, ‘My mind is playing tricks on me’. Astrologically, Mercury in the birth chart describes how each of us perceives and interprets the world, the way each of us understands, processes information, makes connections and communicates.
In common with all the other traditional planets, except for the Sun and Moon, Mercury has rulership over two signs of the zodiac, one positive and one negative: the air sign of Gemini and the earth sign of Virgo. The Moon rules our babyhood, and Mercury rules our early childhood - the period when we learn to speak, we learn to walk, and we are able to explore our immediate surroundings, which will include our first relationships with our brothers and sisters. Mercury will usually describe the kind of relationship we have with our siblings - how we perceive them. Mercury’s function is to carry and disseminate information. Mercury rules the gossip which goes on in the corner shop where you buy your newspaper. In the animal world, it rules all small creatures of the air, such as butterflies, birds and bees, which go from plant to plant carrying pollen and cross-fertilizing. And small animals generally - creatures which move quickly, to-ing and fro-ing about their daily business. Mercury represents reason, reasonableness (common sense), that which is rational. It stands for the spoken and written word, putting in order, weighing and evaluating, the process of learning and skills. This planet takes people from one place to another, but has no interest in the purpose of or reason for the journey; watches and facilitates but doesn't get involved itself. The planet of communication, language and making connections. The bridge between the concious and subconcious. Orbit from Sun: 57'910'000 km
Period: 88 Days
RULER OF GEMINI
RULER OF VIRGO
THE MESSENGER
Mood:
AQUARIUS
listen to the universe
23 July 1985 @ 06:21 am
THE MOON
The Moon’s symbolism exactly opposes, complements and balances that of the Sun. The Sun is all spirit, the masculine principle, and the Moon is all soul, the feminine principle. The Sun rules the individual, and the Moon rules the collective, crowds, and groups of people generally. With no light of its own, the Moon simply reflects the light of the Sun. the Moon is the passive, or Yin principle, the feminine, emotional soul. As the Earth’s satellite, the monthly cycle of the Moon is intimately connected to the tides, the growth cycle of plants and to all biological and emotional rhythms. At the full Moon emotions are heightened, we dream more, consume more alcohol, take more drugs, and even bleed more freely.
Psychologically the Moon rules our moods, which tend to have a life of their own. They are changeable. Moods are stronger at night; we are generally much more suggestible, much more intuitive at night. Night is mysterious and fearful. Most of us will have had the experience of waking up in the middle of the night feeling fearful, overwhelmed and confused, and it is not until the light returns at dawn that things become clear again and straightforward. This would be an example of experiencing the difference between the opposing but balancing lunar and solar principles.
Astrologically, the Moon rules the past, our childhood and our basic instinctual needs and habits. The Moon describes what we need in order to feel safe and nurtured and protected. The Moon in a chart describes how we experienced our mother, how we were nurtured, cared for and fed. And of course there is a very strong connection between food and mood. It is not unusual to hear someone say: ‘I was so angry/upset/miserable/lonely that I went to the fridge and ate everything in it.’ There is a strong lunar connection to eating disorders, which have to do with not having our needs fulfilled, feeling emotionally starved and vulnerable. These kinds of issues are very complex because they operate from the instinctual depths which drive us.
A distorted Moon or lunar principle can manifest in childish demands for attention or self-destructive regressive tendencies and habits; or in a clinging over-dependence, an overwhelming need to live through or for others, and the activation of the ‘psychic vampire’ which leaves everyone with whom the individual comes into contact feeling drained and exhausted. Eventually, of course, every child needs to learn to feed itself, and we need to learn to feed and nurture our own Moon. Only then can we be full enough to provide emotional support for others. Although this is a very simple point, it is not uncommon for us to starve ourselves emotionally in one way or another, with the result that we become emotionally demanding, self pitying and resentful. But the Moon’s placement in our birth charts indicates how we can and must learn to nurture ourselves in order restore our innate receptivity, responsiveness and sensitivity to ourselves and to others and find a loving and compassionate reconnection to our instinctual natures and to our own souls. What it is that makes us feel nurtured and safe will depend entirely on the sign in which the Moon falls, and will be very different for different people.
Physically, the Moon rules the fluids in the body and the lymphatic system, as well as all the body’s containers, such as the stomach, the womb, the bladder and the breasts. The Moon rules food, and the stomach and the breasts are connected with being fed and with feeding, the taking in and the giving out of nourishment. Looking at the list of planetary correspondences, the Moon is silver. The Moon rules watery fruits and vegetables which are round and pale, such as the cauliflower. It rules nocturnal creatures. the lunar principle is multiple, complex and changeable, like the changing phases of the Moon itself. The many triple goddess myths in our Western tradition describe the lunar cycle and the three faces, or ages, of the feminine. From the three Fates who spin the web of life, the three Graiai and the three Gorgons in the Perseus myth, to the three Marys in the Old Testament and the three witches in Macbeth, threeness is so embedded in the mythology of the feminine that even today people tend to react with some trepidation to the sight of three women together.
The triple goddess myths also reflect the phases of the Moon. The young Moon in its waxing phase is represented by the huntress Artemis or Diana, the virgin goddess of the forests, elusive, mysterious and fiercely independent, guardian of children and childbirth. The earth goddess Demeter or Hera represents the mature, full Moon phase of woman as mother, provider and carer. This is the socially sanctioned face of the feminine, fertile and nurturing. The waning, third phase of the Moon is represented by Hecate, the wise woman or crone, women past child-bearing age. Eventually the Moon disappears altogether into the darkest and most terrifying phase of its cycle, personified by the goddesses who rule over life and death itself, such as Lilith, destructive and vengeful, or Persephone, who holds the keys to the gates of the underworld and acts as guide to the souls of the dead.
The fourth phase is actually the ‘no Moon’ phase, which is sometimes called the dark or black Moon phase. It occurs around the time of the new Moon, and describes the fearful and terrifying face of the feminine. The black Moon phase is devouring and malevolent, ruling nightmares and black magic. It explains the collective fear of the feminine which has led to thousands of ‘witches’ being drowned or burned at the stake. So you can see that the lunar symbol is full of paradox and that's as it should be because it reflects the nature of the feminine.
The Moon represents our feelings and emotions, the receptivity, imagination and basic feeling tone of a person. It also has an effect on the sense of rhythm, time and timing, it influences our adaptability to change, our mobility and versatility.
Orbit from Earth: 384'000km
Period: 27.32 Days
RULER OF CANCER  RULER OF WOMAN DARKNESS
Mood:
SCORPIO
listen to the universe
23 July 1985 @ 06:20 am
THE SUN
Astronomically, the Sun is at the centre, or heart, of the solar system. Without the Sun, there would be no light or life and, indeed, no solar system. The Sun in the birth chart represents our centre of gravity and our centre of consciousness. When the Sun is shining, all is well with the world.
The Sun describes the masculine principle, reliable, predictable, direct and focused, the source of our vitality and spiritual identity. Every day the Sun rises in the east, restoring light and confidence and clarity and the life force to the earth. Equally, the heat and dryness of this solar principle can burn and scorch and can be extremely dangerous, to the extent that we cannot even look at the Sun directly with the naked eye. The Sun describes what we already are
in essence , but what will take the conscious striving of our life’s journey to make whole and to integrate. Arrogance, haughtiness, pride and narcissism, for example, are a few examples of the distortion of the solar principle, the archetype of nobility, honour, integrity and personal authority. As we work to develop the solar principle, which is ultimately our conscious connection to Spirit, we learn that the full expression of the Sun involves the integration of the shadow, since there can be no light without a shadow. The achievement of our unique identity, or solar ‘individuality’ therefore implies that we have become ‘un-divided’, we have recognised and integrated both the light and dark aspects of our solar nature. Naturally, this is very difficult to do and takes a lifetime’s work.
The Sun tells us of the actual core of a person, the inner self, of that which is of central concern. It also shows us the general vitality and the ability to assert oneself, it describes a general tone of being which colors everything else. the Sun is gold. the Sun rules diurnal creatures. the Sun is the active, single, clear and straightforward Yang principle, masculine, physical spirit.
Diameter: 1'390'000 km.
The Earth's orbit from Sun: 149'600'000km
Periode Earth - Sun: 365.25 Days
RULER OF LEO
RULER OF MAN
LIGHT
Location:
core of the milky way Mood:
PISCES
listen to the universe
viewing most recent entries