La Regina del Mare Adriatico - Toaru Majutsu no Index Wiki - Wikia
Wikia
Skip to Content
Skip to Wiki Navigation
Skip to Site Navigation
Comics
TV
Movies
Music
Books
Games
Lifestyle
#DC COMICS
Arrow Season 2.5 #12
Batman #44
Harley Quinn Road Trip Special #1
#MARVEL
Amazing Spider-Man #1
Avengers #0
Invincible Iron Man #1
#INDIE
Jem and the Holograms #7
Plutona #1
Tokyo Ghost #1
MOBILE APPS
Marvel Database
Avengers Alliance
Fairy Tail
More Comics
Search this wikia
Search all of Wikia
Sign In
Register
Username
Password
Forgot your password?
Stay logged in
Or
Connect
Start a wikia
Toaru Majutsu no Index Wiki Navigation
On the Wiki
Wiki Activity
Random page
Videos
Photos
Chat
Forum
Maps
Universe
Characters
Terminology
Locations
Story Timeline
Media
Light Novels
Toaru Majutsu no Index
Anime
Toaru Majutsu no Index (anime)
Toaru Kagaku no Railgun (anime)
Toaru Majutsu no Index Movie: Miracle of Endymion
Manga
Toaru Majutsu no Index (manga)
Toaru Kagaku no Railgun (manga)
Toaru Kagaku no Accelerator
Toaru Nichijou no Index-san
4-koma Koushiki Anthology
Koushiki Comic Anthology
Miracle of Endymion Manga
Crossover Manga
Music and Soundtracks
Games
Toaru Majutsu no Index (PSP game)
Toaru Kagaku no Railgun (PSP game)
Toaru Majutsu no Index Struggle Battle
Toaru Majutsu to Kagaku no Ensemble
Toaru Majutsu to Kagaku no Puzzdex
Community
Most Popular
Most Visited
Misaka Mikoto
Accelerator
Kamijou Touma
Shokuhou Misaki
Kakine Teitoku
Level 5
Kamijou Touma/Personality and Relationships
Newly Changed
Toaru Majutsu no Index Manga Volume 13
Kamijou Faction
Toaru Kagaku no Accelerator Manga Volume 01
Toaru Idol no Accelerator-sama
Toaru Kagaku no Accelerator Manga Chapter 020
Toaru Idol no Accelerator-sama Manga Chapter 002
Toaru Idol no Accelerator-sama Manga Chapter 001
Top Users
TheGreatEye
Kamina lowell
Inept Wiki User
Lol pie
Herald of meridian
Silent Psycho Gamer
Sxerks
Forum
Chat
Anime/Manga Hub
Toaru Majutsu no Index
Contribute
Edit this Page
Create a Map
Add a Video
Add a Photo
Add a Page
Wiki Activity
Watchlist
Random page
Recent changes
La Regina del Mare Adriatico
Redirected from
Ice ship
2,315 pages on
this wiki
Edit
Classic editor
History
Comments 5
La Regina del Mare Adriatico with its figurehead up close.
La Regina del Mare Adriatico
or
The Queen of the Adriatic Sea
( アドリア海の女王 ,
Adoriakai no Jo'ō ? )
is the name of two
magic related objects
in the
Toaru Majutsu no Index
universe. Most notably it is the name of a 9th century large-scale weapon and flagship created by the
Roman Catholic Church
for use against
Venice , to destroy it, its influences and culture. [1]
It is one of the
Ten Holy Artifacts of the Roman Catholic Church . [2]
It is also the name of the ship that carries the weapon.
Though a powerful weapon itself, the flagship requires several other ships made of ice as a convoy. [3]
These ships are called the
Queen's Fleet
( 女王艦隊 ,
Jo'ō Kantai ? )
as reference to it being the fleet of the flagship.
Contents [ show ]
Appearance Edit
All ships including the flagship itself is made out of ice that has been taken from the seawater, giving it a translucent crystalline look, and has a haunting light-bulb glow when light is reflected on its surface from the water, moonlight or even any surrounding street light. This light is even visible from a considerable distance. [3] The water used for creating the ice ship had it's freezing point and melting point altered with magic, as such the the ice will not melt under regular conditions and is not cold to the touch, though it still retains some qualities such as human skin touching the surface would slightly stick with it upon contact. [4]
Queen's Fleet Ships Edit
The Queen's Fleet in the Adriatic Sea.
On the outside the ship is extremely large, with the length of over 100 meters, with the distance between the deck and the bottom about 20 meters. The ship has 3 levels up and 5 to 7 levels down, and comparing to
Touma's
apartment building, it is significantly much larger overall. The ship has 4 masts and at least 1 gun deck, with 10 cannons positioned on each side. [4]
As with the outside, the inside of the ship along with all its contents (such as the door and even the door knob) [5]
are made out of magically modified ice as well, which also makes of the walls inside of the ship seem to glow due in part to the reflection of light. As expected from a such a large vessel, the ship contains several rooms, such as the usual cabins for personnel, guns and cannons, and a clinic. [3]
The anime adaptation depicts the ship as a
barque-type
sailing vessel, with four masts, with the last one the aftermost mast the only fore-and-aft rigged. One special thing to note about the ice ships is that it has only 1 sail for each of its masts. [6]
All-in-all, the size of the entire fleet is equivalent to that of a city. [7]
La Regina del Mare Adriatico Edit
The La Regina del Mare Adriatico is twice the size of the other ships of the Queen's Fleet in comparison. The main difference between the flagship and the fleet-ships is that the flagship is more focused on aesthetics rather than militaristic purpose.With glamorous carvings on it's walls, artistic modifications to even the most trivial objects such as doorknobs, and it was seemingly designed to look like a palace. One notable aspect it has is that it has a
figurehead
of the
Virgin Mary . [8]
It is said to be imitating the ancient
state galleys
of Venice, used by the
Doges of Venice
for the annual Marriage to the Adriatic, performed out in the sea using the ships. Entrance to the ship is a large door, although which are guarded by ice golems who will attack those who are not permitted to enter. [8]
The inside of the ship is similar to the other ships as it is also made of ice, having cabins on its own and the like, though much more finely decorated. The flagship also houses a large meeting area, that resembles a large opera house or auditorium, though it functions more similarly to that of a Parliament building. [8]
The most notable and important aspect of the flagship is the room that houses the weapon itself. To access the room, people must enter a large, intricately designed double door. The room is shaped as a perfectly square pyramid about 20 meters in length. Using magic, the tallness of the pyramid (about 100 meters high) can be fitted into the small size of the ship, furthermore the floors and walls use equilateral triangles with no other shapes to fill the gaps. In the middle of the room contains a spherical structure 7 meters in diameter made out of ice, [9]
which is used to synchronize a sacrifice's magic to it and that of the La Regina del Mare Adriatic to change its targeting system. [1]
Destroying the room and it's functions would essentially destroy the spell and render it no longer usable. [2]
It is said that the ship was created by building it around the room that houses the weapon. [10]
The anime adaptation depicts the ship as baroque-type sailing vessel, though much larger than the ice ships, also having two gun decks as well as the aforementioned figurehead. [11]
Background Edit
During the 9th century, Venice was one of the most powerful
city-states
in Northern Italy [12] , defeating several nearby powers and was a constant antagonist to both the Roman Catholic Church and the
Byzantine Empire
as they did not come under it's dominion, becoming a powerful threat to them as Venice controlled economic trade in the region.
[3]
However, the catalyst that would brought about the creation of the weapon would when merchants brought what said to be the remains of
St. Mark the Evangelist
into Venice
St Mark's Basilica
was later built to house his body. With the intention of creating Venice similar to that of the Vatican and
St. Peter , a place of pilgrimage for believers where it houses the body of
Saints
to protect their rest. [1]
As a result of this, the Roman Catholic Church built La Regina del Mare Adriatico to deal with Venice, and created the Queen's Fleet along with it to defend the weapon against opposing fleets that would attack it. [3]
Although the weapon was created to utterly destroy Venice and it's influences, it was not used by the Roman Catholic Church under the fear of economic disaster brought about by Venices destruction. However, Venice later gained information regarding the weapon, because of this, Venice conquered places that they suspected had the weapon, such as
Padova ,
Vicenza
and
Chioggia . However, the fear brought about the existence of La Regina del Mare Adriatico, caused a financial distress onto Venice after financing the invasions, and the country later crumbled shortly afterwards. [1]
Naming Edit
The name La Regina del Mare Adriatico, is one of the epithets given to the city of Venice. [13]
The name is one of the rather appropriate accolades given to the city among other things, since Venice was originally a military state that had control over the Adriatic Sea. [12]
This would indicate that the name refers to Venice's rule over the Adriatic as is a duty of the queen, however, this also applies to the similarly named weapon of the Roman Catholic Church, indicating that it is superior to Venice or is the one that truly rules over the
Adriatic Sea .
Chronology Edit
La Regina del Mare Adriatico Arc Edit
The flagship in its final moments.
Main article:
La Regina del Mare Adriatico Arc
The weapon is featured during this arc, after a series of unfortunate of events occurring to the
Roman Catholic Church
with
Academy City
being at fault, the Church finally allowed the mobilization of the weapon and its fleet with the intention of destroying Academy City and all of it's influences. Using the Rosary of the Appointed Time to change the target of the weapon from Venice to that of Academy City.
Coincidentally, Kamijou Touma was in Chioggia during its mobilization, and under the fear that he would sabotage the mission (since he was present in several cases that ruined the Church's plans) they attacked him, though to no avail. Later, with the help of the
Amakusa Church , who engages the Queen's Fleet in battle. Touma defeats the commander of the fleet,
Biagio Busoni , and helps rescue the sacrifice for the Rosary of the Appointed Time,
Agnese Sanctis , as well as
her forces .
The Queen's Fleet and La Regina del Mare Adriatico is later destroyed by Touma and would be the final catalyst for the Roman Catholic Church into branding him as an enemy of God, and getting the attention of
God's Right Seat .
World War III Arc Edit
Main article:
World War III Arc
Vento of the Front rebuilt the 'Queen's Fleet' of the La Regina del Mare Adriatico, and used it to fight against
Fiamma of the Right . The new 'core' is an ice-like cross shaped like an anchor, and pierced into her tongue where her old 'Divine Punishment' cross used to be.
The power and range of the Ships' bombardment attack increased exponentially, shoots giant icicles and was enough to bury Fiamma into a mountain of ice. Ultimately the power of the ships was insufficient to fight against Fiamma and the core was destroyed, and Vento was defeated [14] .
Abilities Edit
La Regina del Mare Adriatico Edit
The primary ability of the La Regina del Mare Adriatico is to be used to primarily destroy Venice, which is the main phase of the spell. The effect in destroying anything that has value is likened to the destruction of
Sodom and Gomorrah
by divine punishment, as La Regina del Mare Adriatico's way of destroying Venice is to launch a rain of fire upon it. [3]
Its second phase is to destroy anyone or anything connected to the city, such as technology, art pieces, culture, knowledge, etc., regardless of distance. Utterly destroying any trace and existence of Venice. [3]
The large-scale spell activating.
Because of the fear of the Roman Catholic Church that the weapon would fall into the wrong hands and can be used at them, the Church made sure that the weapon could only be used on Venice, [3]
however, if such an event did occur, then the La Regina del Mare Adriatico can be used to self-destruct as a last resort. The power of the self-destruction covers at least 10 kilometers, and is likened to a tactical nuclear weapon that can incinerate anything within the range. [2]
The spell for activating the weapon resides in a pyramidal room in the flagship, here, it also houses a spherical structure meant for the Rosary of the Appointed Time. [1]
Once activated, the room changes, with the lights surrounding the room shutting off, and the equilateral triangles that form the room slowly emerge from it's bases. Finally a light from the ceiling appears, which with coupled with the equilateral triangular shaped pillars, would reflect, inflect, and reform the light to create a large patterned path in the air, surrounding the room making it appear as a dome with a planetarium. [2]
The spell is reinforced by alchemy as well as the prisoners of its fleet, which makes any attempt at stopping the spell difficult. [2] However, destroying the core cross that activates the spell would not only stop the spell but destroy the core of the weapon, [2]
it would then essentially destroy the flag ship as well as the other fleet ships. [1]
Rosary of the Appointed Time Edit
The
Rosary of the Appointed Time
or the
Rosary of the Limit
( 刻限のロザリオ ,
Kokugen no Rozario ? )
is the name for the spherical structure that resides in the room of the La Regina del Mare Adriatico and a spell that uses a sacrifice to synchronize their power with it and that of La Regina del Mare Adriatico. [1]
Its main function is to change the target of La Regina del Mare Adriatico to something else. [1]
A sacrifice is required to change the target, though little is known regarding the requirements other than when the sacrifice's mind is crushed by the spell, the way the brain looked after being crushed would be an indication that the person is a suitable sacrifice for the spell. [9]
Agnese next to the Rosary of the Appointed Time.
The sacrifice that would be used for the spell, would feel excruciating pain once the spell is activated, and would later render the person brain damaged and severely crippled after use. [15]
The mind is crushed due to the fact that the minds create magical energy within their bodies using their life forces. The Rosary of the Appointed Time creates the magical energy required to change the target of La Regina del Mare Adriatico by crushing the mind of the sacrifice. [9]
There are several yet unknown requirements for changing the target as the Roman Catholic Church has put several locks on it in order to prevent enemies from using, though once a compatible sacrifice is chosen and used, the person would still feel the effects of La Regina del Mare Adriatico even if the preparations are still incomplete. [2]
However, one of the most important part of the synchronization is for the sacrifice to enter the spherical structure found in the middle of the core of La Regina del Mare Adriatico, where in the sphere would fill with ice when the Rosary of the Appointed Time is activated. The point is for the sacrifice to freeze inside the sphere and be destroyed magically. [16]
Because the sacrifice holds such an important position, the person can enjoy several privileges such as being excused from labor even if the person is a prisoner in the Queen's Fleet. [17]
However the most notable feature of a sacrifice is for the person to wear a modified robe that would cause a counterspell to prevent the user from dying regardless of any damage done on the person. For
Agnese Sanctis , the only known sacrifice of the Rosary of the Appointed Time, she is forced to wear a tattered habit that exposes the skin as a form of punishment used to shame her, as she is a sinner in the eyes of the Roman Catholic Church. [9]
According to Haimura Kiyotaka, her Rosary of the Appointed time clothes was made to give off a feeling of a crow that has been plucked of its feathers, and is used as a complement to
Lucia
and
Angelene's
Forbidden colored robe . [18]
Supplementary abilities Edit
Because the flagship is vulnerable to the Venetian navy, the Roman Catholic Church made it so that a convoy of ships would protect it at all times, which is named the Queen' Fleet. [3]
These ships are formed by La Regina del Mare Adriatico from the seawater and turned into ice, with its freezing and melting point changed. Using the seawater the ship reforms itself every time it is damaged. [4]
This is due to La Regina del Mare Adriatico controlling all the functions of the Queen's Fleet, as well as control and deploy ships. [8]
Defenses Edit
Index and Orsola in front of the door to the core of La Regina del Mare Adriatico.
One of the main defenses of the ship is to have magic all around its structure to provide a block structure defense on it , which means that every time the ship is damaged the block structure removes the bare minimum required to minimize damage. As such if a part of the ship is damaged, the block structure would prevent other blocks from incurring damage. Because of this, even if Kamijou Touma used the Imagine Breaker on the ship, only a part of it would be negated. [8]
Important doorways also have magic locks to prevent any intruders from entering, the most notable is the double doors that contain the core of La Regina del Mare Adriatico. The door has a defensive spell placed on it, base on the legend of
St. Blaise . The ships summons ice golems if the door detects an intruder close to it. [10]
Queen's Fleet Edit
Agata at the helm of surveillance ship number 47.
The most important aspect La Regina del Mare Adriatico is its fleet, made up of several ice ships that the flagship made itself using the seawater, it is used by the flagship to protect itself from the Venetian navy. [3]
The ice ships are so numerous, the entire fleet is equivalent of the city. [7]
Because of this, the ship can reform when damaged or even completely destroyed even from friendly fire, making it ideal for the protection of the flagship. [4]
Under the guise of monitoring the Adriatic Sea, the Queen's Fleet is a labor facility for sinners, such as the
Agnese Forces . In the ships the prisoners are under the banned form of punishment called
futility , here, prisoners are tasked to perform various menial task such as surveillance of the surrounding areas for magic or the like, this is a form of psychological torture used to wear down the laborers. However, those who try to escape are not killed and are simply given additional menial tasks to perform. [19]
It is revealed that the large-scale spell La Regina del Mare Adriatico is reinforced by the prisoners of its fleet. [2]
Some ships such as ship 47, where
Agata
is stationed, have specialized magic to gather intelligence and detect enemies. [20]
Ships like ship 37, the ship where Touma and Orsola have come upon, has magicians who are part of the management comittee of the Fleet, [9]
and are referred to as researchers, but are implied to use torture to prisoners, based on the sharp and mystifying they were found with, [7]
Supplementary abilities Edit
Divine Cannon of St. Barbara Edit
All Queen's Fleet ships are armed with a cannons made out of ice, once again with magic applied to it as to mimic an actual cannon. The cannons are based off the legend of
St. Barbara , and can be negated by Touma's Imagine Breaker, [15]
with a maximum range of 5 kilometers. [21]
The ice ships not only have regular cannons, but have anti-air cannons. [15]
In the
Toaru Majutsu no Index
anime adaptation, the ships also feature
depth charges . [11]
Ice golem Edit
With one touch of his right hand, Touma easily dispatches an ice golem.
All ships have can summon ice
golems
for use as protection. The golems are made out of the ships they are in, and can move independently after being given orders, however, because of this magic is embedded on the construct and is seperate from the ship, as such it cannot reform after being damaged, as such it can also be destroyed by Touma's Imagine Breaker. [15]
At least 3 meters tall, [15]
the golems are designed to look like they are equipped with medieval armor, and to complement this, the golems also wield medieval weaponry such as pole-arms and swords. [22]
One noteworthy feature of the ice golems is that it can glide on the floors of the ship. [15]
Similar to
Sherry Cromwell's
golem, the ice golems have poor intelligence and will try to follow orders without regard for its state, because of this,
Index's
Spell Intercept can hijack their orders. [10]
Ice bridges Edit
All ships are capable of creating bridges made of ice for people to cross to other ships.
Gallery Edit
An ice ship emerges from the canals of Chioggia. A view of an ice ship from a different angle. Agnese crossing an ice bridge. Agnese Sanctis in her Rosary of the Appointed Time habit. Add a photo to this gallery
References Edit
↑
1.0
1.1
1.2
1.3
1.4
1.5
1.6
1.7
Toaru Majutsu no Index Light Novel Volume 11
Chapter 5 Part 8
↑
2.0
2.1
2.2
2.3
2.4
2.5
2.6
2.7
Toaru Majutsu no Index Light Novel Volume 11
Chapter 5 Part 9
↑
3.0
3.1
3.2
3.3
3.4
3.5
3.6
3.7
3.8
3.9
Toaru Majutsu no Index Light Novel Volume 11
Chapter 4 Part 4
↑
4.0
4.1
4.2
4.3
Toaru Majutsu no Index Light Novel Volume 11
Chapter 2 Part 4
↑
Toaru Majutsu no Index Light Novel Volume 11
Chapter 3 Part 1
↑
Toaru Majutsu no Index II Episode 14
↑
7.0
7.1
7.2
Toaru Majutsu no Index Light Novel Volume 11
Chapter 3 Part 4
↑
8.0
8.1
8.2
8.3
8.4
Toaru Majutsu no Index Light Novel Volume 11
Chapter 5 Part 2
↑
9.0
9.1
9.2
9.3
9.4
Toaru Majutsu no Index Light Novel Volume 11
Chapter 4 Part 1
↑
10.0
10.1
10.2
Toaru Majutsu no Index Light Novel Volume 11
Chapter 5 Part 7
↑
11.0
11.1
Toaru Majutsu no Index II Episode 15
↑
12.0
12.1
Toaru Majutsu no Index Light Novel Volume 11
Chapter 2 Part 2
↑
Venice Article on Wikipedia
↑
Toaru Majutsu no Index Light Novel Volume 20
Chapter 2 Part 8
↑
15.0
15.1
15.2
15.3
15.4
15.5
Toaru Majutsu no Index Light Novel Volume 11
Chapter 3 Part 5
↑
Toaru Majutsu no Index Light Novel Volume 11
Chapter 5 Part 1
↑
Toaru Majutsu no Index Light Novel Volume 11
Chapter 3 Part 3
↑
Haimura Kiyotaka's comments on Agnese's clothes: The
Rainbow Spectrum
(Japanese) (Retrieved on 2/15/2011)
↑
Toaru Majutsu no Index Light Novel Volume 11
Chapter 3 Part 2
↑
Toaru Majutsu no Index Light Novel Volume 11
Chapter 4 Part 6
↑
Toaru Majutsu no Index Light Novel Volume 11
Chapter 4 Part 3
↑
Toaru Majutsu no Index II Episode 16
Retrieved from " http://toarumajutsunoindex.wikia.com/wiki/La_Regina_del_Mare_Adriatico?oldid=102544#Queen.27s_Fleet_Ships "
Categories :
Magic
Magic Items and Artifacts
Roman Catholic Church
Large-scale Spells
Ten Holy Artifacts of the Roman Catholic Church
Locations
Christianity
Vehicles and Transportation
Add category
Cancel
Save
Around Wikia's network
Random Wiki
Comics
About
Help
Community Central
Careers
Advertise
API
Contact Wikia
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Global Sitemap
Content is available under
CC-BY-SA .
Entertainment
Video Games
Lifestyle