The Glorious Cr
Cross of Dozulé
Cross of Love of Dozulé erected by the
Movement of Love Saint Juan Diego
on Tepeyac Hill, next to the Basilica of
Our Lady of Guadalupe
in Mexico City, the most visited Marian Sanctuary in the World.
The
Glorious Cross of Dozulé
is a postulated illuminated
Catholic cross coloured white and blue, 738m tall with arms 123m long,
which means with an exact proportion of a ratio of 3 between the
vertical and horizontal lengths. It is called
Glorious Cross , in order to distinguish it from the
Cross of Love
of Dozulé, realized on a scale of 1/100 on that of the Glorious One, that is 7.38m high with arms 1.23m long.
According to the "Movement of Love" and other believers, the
Catholic Church should have erected the Glorious Cross, which it did
not. Crosses of Love have been erected by faithful Catholic in
thousands of places in many countries of the world and in particular in
France, Italy, Mexico and Argentina. A cross was also erected by
Conchiglia - Movement of Love Saint Juan Diego
on the location where the
Virgin Mary
is believed to have appeared to
Saint Juan Diego .
The Cross with the dimensions of 7.38m x 1.23m was raised with the
approval and blessing of the Archbishop and several priests, according
to the followers of the movement. Many of these Crosses of Love have
been erected with the approval of the bishops, rectors of sanctuaries,
Orthodox patriarchs and Protestant pastors. However, there have been
cases where bishops have expressively prohibited them and have asked to
remove them.
Contents
[ hide ]
1
Origin 2
The Prayer of Dozulé 3
Other projects 4
See also 5
Sources 6
External links
Origin
Dozulé
is a small town in
Normandy , in
France , located about 25 km from
Lisieux . Between 1972 and 1978 Jesus is said to have appeared there 49 times to
Madeleine Aumont ,
a mother of five children, in the presence of her parish priest the
Abate L’Horset and other faithful people, and is believed to have been
dictating a series of messages, containing teachings and of warnings
for all people, according to those who believe in them. Among them is
the daily
Prayer of Dozulé . The messages are seen as an annunciation of the return of
Christ .
The Glorious Cross is seen as a sign of it. The followers of the
messages of Dozulé believe that they are the continuation of the
Secret of Fatima
and that they ask, for the conversion of humanity to avoid a material and spiritual catastrophe.
The Prayer of Dozulé
The followers believe that Jesus revealed to Madeleine Aumont that
the faithful are to recite this prayer every day, beginning with the
Sign of the Cross :
Jesus of Nazareth has triumphed over death. His Reign is eternal. He
is coming to conquer the world and time. Mercy my God, for those who
blaspheme You, forgive them, for they do not know what they do. Mercy
my God, for the scandal in the world, deliver them from the spirit of
satan. Mercy my God, for those who run away from You, give them the
appreciation for the Holy Eucharist. Mercy my God, for those who will
come repentant to the Glorious Cross, may they find there Peace and Joy
in God our Saviour. Mercy my God, so that Your Kingdom may come, but
save souls, there is still time, for the time is drawing near, And
Behold, I am coming. Amen. Come Lord Jesus! 1
Our Father
and 10
Hail Mary . Lord, pour out on the whole world the treasures of Your infinite mercy. The Glorious Cross of Dozule ( in Saskatoon ) I have been interested in having a Glorious Cross in our area for quite some time. I know there is one in Ponteix, Sask. But that is a 4 hour drive from here. This year ( 2010) has been a very difficult year for me. I have been very sick. On many prescriptions of antibiotics ( 7) with no relief. I ended up in hospital, very dehydrated with a temperature of 103.7, worrying about whether my organs would shut down...I am not complaining because the Lord had to allow me to be that sick so that in desperation I would make a deal with Him...He knows all. I decided to put my trust in Our Lord. I told Him that if I could possibly get off the medication that I would do something big for Him, that I would build a Glorious Cross in my yard. You must understand that this is not a simple or cheap thing to do. Also my husband is not Catholic and I am sure I don't have to explain the complications of this endeavor.
My prayer was said on a Thursday...On the Saturday I checked and I was better, so much so that I started thinking that I would have to build that Cross after all. Much to my surprise, my husband said that I had to keep my promise and that we would build the Cross. I wanted it finished before September, I had thought on Sept. 8th but for sure on the 14th, so that it could be blessed on the Feast of the Exaltation of the Cross. Everything turned out better then I expected, at the end of August the Cross was up and on the 14th, we had a great celebration. Father Denis Phaneuf celebrated Holy Mass and he blessed the Glorious Cross with a large group of people in attendance.  I must say I love this Cross.
Here are some pictures The first picture of the Glorious Cross in my back yard. It's very solid, made out of steel. Father Denis, blessing the Cross on September 14, 2010 Carmen welcoming the group. Mass followed in the garage, a large group of people came.
Father Denis and Carmen Humphrey at the foot of the cross.
Site Map