Awesome places
around the world.: Август 2012
Awesome places
around the world.
сряда, 1 август 2012 г.
Sagrada Familia, Barcelona, Spain
Sagrada Familia
Barcelona
Spain
Brief history and interesting facts:
This sub point can safely be
skipped by the readers that wish to know more and in detail about the architecture marvel, I will write in more detail below this point.If you just interested in the general history and story your welcome to read the brief summery.
This post will be about the famous Sagrada Familia. The most beautiful a magnificent cathedral in the world so far. If your not sure why it it is the most beautiful just look at the pictures below the post to see for yourself. The cathedral is not only amazing because of the way it looks, but because as with all great architecture marvels, history plays a very big and important role. The cathedral was started during 1882 and was never designed to be finished by only one architect. The first architect Antoni Gaudi designed his cathedral in such a way that during that age humanity didn't even had the technological means to do so. Even today with all our knowledge a materials we still have problems building some of the finer details. I have come across many sites that say different dates about the day it will be finally completed, however in my opinion they can not be accurate because its extremely hard  to just set a year of competition to something that had been in construction for centuries.  Well as i said the summery will be really short and cover the bare minimum, if your interested in some particular aspect scroll down the points.
Sagrada Família
Though construction of Sagrada Família had commenced in
1882 , Gaudí became involved in 1883,
taking over the project and transforming it with his architectural and engineering style—combining Gothic and curvilinear
Art Nouveau
forms.
Gaudí devoted his last years to the project, and at the time of his
death in 1926, less than a quarter of the project was complete.
Sagrada Família's construction progressed slowly, as it relied on private donations and was interrupted by the
Spanish Civil War —only
to resume intermittent progress in the 1950s. Construction passed the
midpoint in 2010 with some of the project's greatest challenges
remaining
and an anticipated completion date of 2026—the centennial of Gaudí's
death. The basílica has a long history of dividing the citizens of
Barcelona—over the initial possibility it might compete with
Barcelona's cathedral , over Gaudí's design itself,
over the possibility that work after Gaudí's death disregarded his design,
and the recent possibility that an underground tunnel of Spain's
high-speed train
could disturb its stability.
Describing Sagrada Familia, art critic Rainer Zerbst said "it is
probably impossible to find a church building anything like it in the
entire history of art"
and
Paul Goldberger
called it 'the most extraordinary personal interpretation of Gothic architecture since the Middle Ages'.
History
Gaudí's model of the completed church
Background
The Basilica of the Sagrada Família was the inspiration of a Catalan
bookseller, Josep Maria Bocabella, founder of Asociación Espiritual de
Devotos de San José (Spiritual Association of Devotees of St. Joseph).
After a visit to the Vatican in 1872, Bocabella returned from Italy
with the intention of building a church inspired by that at
Loreto .
The crypt of the church, funded by donations, was begun 19 March 1882,
on the festival of St. Joseph, to the design of the architect
Francisco de Paula del Villar , whose plan was for a
Gothic revival
church of a standard form.
Antoni Gaudí began work on the project in 1883. On 18 March 1883 Villar
retired from the project, and Gaudí assumed responsibility for its
design, which he changed radically.
Construction
Newly constructed stonework at the Sagrada Família is clearly visible against the stained and weathered older sections.
On the subject of the extremely long construction period, Gaudí is said to have remarked: "My client is not in a hurry."
When Gaudí died in 1926, the basilica was between 15 and 25 percent complete.
After Gaudí's death, work continued under the direction of
Domènec Sugrañes i Gras
until interrupted by the
Spanish Civil War
in 1936. Parts of the unfinished basilica and Gaudí's models and workshop were destroyed during the war by
Catalan anarchists .
The present design is based on reconstructed versions of the lost plans
as well as on modern adaptations. Since 1940 the architects
Francesc Quintana ,
Isidre Puig Boada ,
Lluís Bonet i Gari
and
Francesc Cardoner
have carried on the work. The illumination was designed by
Carles Buigas . The current director and son of Lluís Bonet,
Jordi Bonet i Armengol , has been introducing computers into the design and construction process since the 1980s.
Mark Burry
of New Zealand serves as Executive Architect and Researcher. Sculptures by
J. Busquets ,
Etsuro Sotoo
and the controversial
Josep Subirachs
decorate the fantastical façades.
The central
nave
vaulting
was completed in 2000 and the main tasks since then have been the construction of the
transept
vaults and
apse . As of 2006, work concentrated on the crossing and supporting structure for the main tower of
Jesus Christ
as well as the southern enclosure of the central nave, which will become the Glory façade.
Construction status
Sagrada Familia's roof under construction (2009)
One projection anticipates construction completion around 2026, the
centennial of Gaudí's death—while the project's information leaflet
estimates a completion date in 2028, accelerated by additional funding
from visitors to Barcelona following the 1992
Barcelona Olympics .
Computer-aided design
technology has been used to accelerate construction of the building,
which had previously been expected to last for several hundred years,
based on building techniques available in the early 20th century. [ citation needed ]
Current technology allows stone to be shaped off-site by a
CNC milling
machine, whereas in the 20th century, the stone was carved by hand.
In 2008, some renowned Catalan architects advocated a halt to construction,
to respect Gaudí's original designs, which, although they were not
exhaustive and were partially destroyed, have been partially
reconstructed in recent years.
A 2010 exhibition,
Gaudí Unseen, Completing La Sagrada Familia
at the
German Architecture Museum , Frankfurt am Main, describes the current construction methods and future plans for the Sagrada Familia.
AVE tunnel
On 26 March 2010, the Ministry of Public Works of Spain ( Ministerio de Fomento ) began constructing an
AVE
(high-speed train) tunnel beneath the center of Barcelona, saying the project poses no risk to the church.
Project engineers and architects disagreed, saying there was no
guarantee that the tunnel would not affect the stability of the
building. The Board of the Sagrada Família ( Patronat de la Sagrada Família ) and the neighborhood association
AVE pel Litoral
(AVE by the Coast) had led a campaign against this route of the
Tunnel Sants - La Sagrera
for the AVE, without success.
In October 2010, the
tunnel boring machine
reached the church underground under the location of the building's principal façade . A few months later, the tunneling machine reached its endpoint. No damage to the Sagrada Familia has been reported to date.
The circulation of trains through the tunnel is planned to start in
December 2012, when the installation of railway tracks, catenary and
signalisation is completed.
ADIF
intends to embed the rails into an elastic material to dampen vibrations, according to the system
Edilon .
Construction of the Sagrada Família
Construction in the spring of 1988
An artist at work in the gypsum workshop
Construction workers and aerial work platforms in the nave
Construction workers in climbing gear on a tower
A crane over a tower of the Glory façade
The Glory façade in scaffolding
Consecration
The main nave was covered and an organ installed in mid-2010,
allowing the still unfinished building to be used for religious
services.
The church was
consecrated
by Pope
Benedict XVI
on 7 November 2010 in front of a congregation of 6,500 people,
including King
Juan Carlos I
and
Queen Sofia of Spain .
A further 50,000 people followed the consecration
Mass
from outside the basilica, where more than 100 bishops and 300 priests were on hand to offer
Holy Communion .
Fire
On 19 April 2011, an arsonist started a small fire in the
sacristy
which forced the evacuation of tourists and construction workers, but caused minimal damage.
The sacristy itself, however, was destroyed by the fire, which took 45 minutes to contain.
Design
Nativity façade
The style of la Sagrada Familia is variously likened to
Spanish Late Gothic ,
Catalan Modernism
and to
Art Nouveau
or Catalan
Noucentisme . While the Sagrada Família falls within the Art Nouveau period,
Nikolaus Pevsner
points out that, along with
Charles Rennie Macintosh
in Glasgow, Gaudí carried the Art Nouveau style far beyond its usual application as a surface decoration.
Plan
While never intended to be a
cathedral
(seat of a bishop), the Sagrada Família was planned from the outset to
be a cathedral-sized building. Its ground-plan has obvious links to
earlier Spanish cathedrals such as
Burgos Cathedral ,
Leon Cathedral
and
Seville Cathedral .
In common with Catalan and many other European Gothic cathedrals, the
Sagrada Familia is short in comparison to its width, and has a great
complexity of parts, which include double aisles, an
ambulatory
with a
chevet
of seven
apsidal
chapels, a multitude of towers and three portals, each widely different
in structure as well as ornament. Where it is common for cathedrals in
Spain to be surrounded by numerous chapels and ecclesiastical buildings,
the plan of this church has an unusual feature: a covered passage or
cloister
which forms a rectangle enclosing the church and passing through the
narthex
of each of its three portals. With this peculiarity aside, the plan,
influenced by Villar's crypt, barely hints at the complexity of Gaudí's
design or its deviations from traditional church architecture.
Spires
Gaudí's original design calls for a total of eighteen spires, representing in ascending order of height the
Twelve Apostles , the
four Evangelists , the
Virgin Mary
and, tallest of all, Jesus Christ. Eight spires have been built as of
2010, corresponding to four apostles at the Nativity façade and four
apostles at the Passion façade.
According to the 2005
Works Report
of the project's official
website, drawings signed by Gaudí and recently found in the Municipal
Archives, indicate that the spire of the Virgin was in fact intended by
Gaudí to be shorter than those of the evangelists. The spire height will
follow Gaudí's intention, which according to the Works Report will work
with the existing foundation.
The Evangelists' spires will be surmounted by sculptures of their traditional symbols: a bull ( Saint Luke ), a winged man ( Saint Matthew ), an eagle ( Saint John ), and a lion ( Saint Mark ). The central spire of Jesus Christ is to be surmounted by a giant
cross ; the spire's total height (170 metres (560 ft)) will be one metre less than that of
Montjuïc
hill in Barcelona as Gaudi believed that his creation should not
surpass God's. The lower spires are surmounted by communion hosts with
sheaves of wheat and chalices with bunches of grapes, representing the
Eucharist .
The completion of the spires will make Sagrada Família the
tallest church building in the world .
Façades
The façade
The Church will have three grand façades: the
Nativity
façade to the East, the
Passion
façade to the West, and the
Glory
façade to the South (yet to be completed). The Nativity Façade was
built before work was interrupted in 1935 and bears the most direct
Gaudí influence. The Passion façade is especially striking for its
spare, gaunt, tormented characters, including emaciated figures of
Christ being scourged at the pillar; and Christ on the
Cross . These controversial designs are the work of
Josep Maria Subirachs .
The Glory façade, on which construction began in 2002, will be the
largest and most monumental of the three and will represent one's
ascension to God. It will also depict various scenes such as Hell,
Purgatory, and will include elements such as the
Seven Deadly Sins
and the
Seven Heavenly Virtues .
Nativity Façade
Tortoise at the base of column
Constructed between 1894 and 1930, the Nativity façade was the first
façade to be completed. Dedicated to the birth of Jesus, it is decorated
with scenes reminiscent of elements of life. Characteristic of Gaudí's
naturalistic style, the sculptures are ornately arranged and decorated
with scenes and images from nature, each a symbol in their own manner.
For instance, the three porticos are separated by two large columns, and
at the base of each lies a turtle or a tortoise (one to represent the
land and the other the sea; each are symbols of time as something set in
stone and unchangeable). In contrast to the figures of turtles and
their symbolism, two chameleons can be found at either side of the
façade, and are symbolic of change.
The façade faces the rising sun to the northeast, a symbol for the
birth of Christ. It is divided into three porticos, each of which
represents a theological virtue (Hope, Faith and Charity).
The Tree of Life
rises above the door of Jesus in the portico of Charity. Four towers complete the façade and are each dedicated to a Saint ( Matthias the Apostle ,
Saint Barnabas ,
Jude the Apostle , and
Simon the Zealot ).
Originally, Gaudí intended for this façade to be
polychromed , for each
archivolt
to be painted with a wide array of colours. He wanted every statue and
figure to be painted. In this way the figures of humans would appear as
much alive as the figures of plants and animals.
Gaudí chose this façade to embody the structure and decoration of the
whole church. He was well aware that he would not finish the church and
that he would need to set an artistic and architectural example for
others to follow. He also chose for this façade to be the first on which
to begin construction and for it to be, in his opinion, the most
attractive and accessible to the public. He believed that if he had
begun construction with the Passion Façade, one that would be hard and
bare (as if made of bones), before the Nativity Façade, people would
have withdrawn at the sight of it.
Passion Façade
Short video showing architectural features of Sagrada Familia in 2001
In contrast to the highly decorated Nativity Façade, the Passion
Façade is austere, plain and simple, with ample bare stone, and is
carved with harsh straight lines to resemble a skeleton if it were
reduced to only bone. Dedicated to the
Passion
of Christ, the suffering of Jesus during his
crucifixion ,
the façade was intended to portray the sins of man. Construction began
in 1954, following the drawings and instructions left by Gaudí for
future architects and sculptors. The towers were completed in 1976, and
in 1987 a team of sculptors, headed by
Josep Maria Subirachs ,
began work sculpting the various scenes and details of the façade. They
aimed to give a rigid, angular form to provoke a dramatic effect. Gaudí
intended for this façade to strike fear into the onlooker. He wanted to
"break" arcs and "cut" columns, and to use the effect of
chiaroscuro
(dark angular shadows contrasted by harsh rigid light) to further show the severity and brutality of Christ's sacrifice.
Facing the setting sun, indicative and symbolic of the death of
Christ, the Passion Façade is supported by six large and inclined
columns, designed to resemble
sequoia
trunks. Above there is a pyramidal
pediment ,
made up of eighteen bone-shaped columns, which culminate in a large
cross with a crown of thorns. Each of the four towers is dedicated to an
apostle ( James ,
Thomas ,
Philip , or
Bartholomew )
and, like the Nativity Façade, there are three porticos, each
representing the theological virtues, though in a much different light.
The scenes sculpted into the façade may be divided into three levels, which ascend in an 'S' form and reproduce the
Calvary , or
Golgotha , of Christ.
The lowest level depicts scenes from Jesus' last night before the crucifixion, including
The Last Supper ,
Kiss of Judas ,
Ecce Homo , and the
Sanhedrin Trial of Jesus . The middle level portrays the Calvary, or Golgotha, of Christ, and includes
The Three Marys ,
Saint Veronica ,
Saint Longinus , and a
hollow-face illusion
of Christ. In the third and final level the Death, Burial and the
Resurrection of Christ
can be seen. A bronze figure situated on a bridge creating a link
between the towers of Saint Bartholomew and Saint Thomas represents the
Ascension of Jesus .
Glory Façade
Glory Façade under construction (October 2011).
The largest and most striking of the facades will be the Glory
Façade, on which construction began in 2002. It will be the principal
façade and will offer access to the central
nave . Dedicated to the Celestial Glory of Jesus, it represents the road to God: Death, Final Judgment, and Glory, while
Hell
is left for those who deviate from God's will. Aware that he would not
live long enough to see this façade completed, Gaudí made only a general
sketch of what the façade would look like. He intended for the temple,
like many cathedrals and facades throughout history, not only to be
completed by other architects but also to incorporate other
architectural and artistic styles.
To reach the Glory Portico, there will be a large staircase, which
will create an underground passage beneath Carrer Mallorca, representing
Hell and vice. It will be decorated with demons, idols, false gods,
heresy and schisms, etc. Purgatory and death will also be depicted, the
latter using tombs along the ground. The portico will have seven large
columns dedicated to
spiritual gifts . At the base of the columns there will be representations of the Seven Deadly Sins, and at the top, The Seven Heavenly Virtues.
Interior
See also:
Cathedral diagram  and for definitions of the architectural terms
The church plan is that of a Latin cross with five aisles. The
central nave vaults reach forty-five metres while the side nave vaults
reach thirty metres. The transept has three aisles. The columns are on a
7.5 metre grid. However, the columns of the apse,
resting on del Villar's foundation, do not adhere to the grid,
requiring a section of columns of the ambulatory to transition to the
grid thus creating a horseshoe pattern to the layout of those columns.
The crossing rests on the four central columns of porphyry supporting a
great hyperboloid surrounded by two rings of twelve hyperboloids
(currently under construction). The central vault reaches sixty metres.
The apse is capped by a hyperboloid vault reaching seventy-five metres.
Gaudí intended that a visitor standing at the main entrance be able to
see the vaults of the nave, crossing, and apse, thus the graduated
increase in vault loftiness.
Detail of the roof in the nave. Gaudi designed the columns to mirror trees and branches.
There are gaps in the floor of the apse, providing a view down into the crypt below.
The columns of the interior are a unique Gaudí design. Besides
branching to support their load, their ever-changing surfaces are the
result of the intersection of various geometric forms. The simplest
example is that of a square base evolving into an octagon as the column
rises, then a sixteen-sided form, and eventually to a circle. This
effect is the result of a three-dimensional intersection of helicoidal
columns (for example a square cross-section column twisting clockwise
and a similar one twisting counter-clockwise).
Essentially none of the interior surfaces are flat; the ornamentation
is comprehensive and rich, consisting in large part of abstract shapes
which combine smooth curves and jagged points. Even detail-level work
such as the iron railings for balconies and stairways are full of
curvaceous elaboration.
Organ
In 2010 an
organ
was installed in the
presbytery
by the Blancafort Orgueners de Montserrat organ builders. The
instrument has 26 stops (1,492 pipes) on two manuals and a pedalboard.
Pedal
C–f 1
1.
Contrabajo
16'
2.
Subajo
16'
3.
Contras
8'
4.
Bajo
8'
5.
Coral
4'
6.
Fagot
16'
I Organo Mayor
C–g 3
7.
Flautado de cara
8'
8.
Flautado Armonica
8'
9.
Flautado Chimenea
8'
10.
Octava
4'
11.
Docena
4'
12.
Quincena
2'
13.
Decisetena
8'
14.
Corneta V
8'
15.
Lleno III-IV
1 1 / 3 '
16.
Trompeta Real
8'
II Expressivo
C–g 3
17.
Gran Principal
8'
18.
Gamba
8'
19.
Violon
8'
20.
Voz Celeste
8'
21.
Flautado Conica
4'
22.
Tapadillo
4'
23.
Nasardo 12 a
2 2 / 3 '
24.
Flabiolet
2'
25.
Nasardo 17 a
1 3 / 5 '
26.
Oboe
8'
Couplers:
II/I, I/P, II/P
To overcome the unique acoustical challenges posed by the church's
architecture and vast size, several additional organs will be installed
at various points within the building. These instruments will be
playable separately (from their own individual consoles) and
simultaneously (from a single mobile console), yielding an organ of some
8000 pipes when completed.
Geometric details
Alpha and Omega
carving at Sagrada Família entrance
The towers on the Nativity façade are crowned with geometrically shaped tops that are reminiscent of
Cubism
(they were finished around 1930), and the intricate decoration is contemporary to the style of
Art Nouveau , but Gaudí's unique style drew primarily from nature, not other artists or architects, and resists categorization.
Gaudí used
hyperboloid structures
in later designs of the Sagrada Família (more obviously after 1914),
however there are a few places on the nativity façade—a design not
equated with Gaudí's
ruled-surface
design—where the
hyperboloid
crops up. For example, all around the scene with the pelican there are
numerous examples (including the basket held by one of the figures).
There is a hyperboloid adding structural stability to the cypress tree
(by connecting it to the bridge). And finally, the "bishop's mitre"
spires are capped with hyperboloid structures.
In his later designs, ruled surfaces are prominent in the nave's vaults and windows and the surfaces of the Passion facade.
Symbolism
Themes throughout the decoration include words from the liturgy. The
towers are decorated with words such as "Hosanna", "Excelsis", and
"Sanctus"; the great doors of the Passion façade reproduce words from
the Bible in various languages including Catalan; and the Glory façade
is to be decorated with the words from the
Apostles' Creed .
The three entrances symbolize the three virtues: Faith, Hope and Love.
Each of them is also dedicated to a part of Christ's life. The Nativity
Façade is dedicated to his birth; it also has a cypress tree which
symbolizes the tree of life. The Glory façade is dedicated to his glory
period. The Passion façade is symbolic of his suffering. All in all, the
Sagrada de Família is symbolic of the lifetime of Christ.
Areas of the sanctuary will be designated to represent various
concepts, such as saints, virtues and sins, and secular concepts such as
regions, presumably with decoration to match.
Burials
Antoni Gaudí
Appraisal
Nikolaus Pevsner ,
writing in the 1960s, referred to Gaudi's buildings as growing "like
sugar loaves and anthills" and describes the ornamenting of buildings
with shards of broken pottery as possibly "bad taste" but handled with
vitality and "ruthless audacity".
The building's design itself has been polarizing. While
Time Magazine
called it 'sensual, spiritual, whimsical, exuberant',
George Orwell
called it 'one of the most hideous buildings in the world' and
James A. Michener
called it "one of the strangest-looking serious buildings in the world".
The building's distinctive silhouette has nevertheless become symbolic of Barcelona itself,
drawing an estimated 2.5 million visitors annually.
World Heritage status
With six other Gaudí buildings in Barcelona, la Sagrada Familia is a UNESCO
World Heritage Site ,
as testifying "to Gaudí’s exceptional creative contribution to the
development of architecture and building technology", "having
represented el Modernisme of Catalonia" and "anticipated and influenced
many of the forms and techniques that were relevant to the development
of modern construction in the 20th century".
Visiting
Visitors can access the Nave, Crypt, Museum, Shop, and the Passion
and Nativity towers. While visitors could previously access the towers
directly at no cost, their access currently is possible only by lift and
a walk up the remainder of the towers, over the bridge between the
towers and descent via the opposite tower by spiral staircase.
As of August 2010, there is a service for faster entry whereby visitors can buy an entry code either at Servicaixa ATM kiosks (part of 'La Caixa') or online.
Funding
Construction on Sagrada Família is not supported by any government or
official church sources. Private patrons funded the initial stages.
Money from tickets purchased by tourists is now used to pay for the
work, and private donations are accepted through the Friends of the
Sagrada Família.
The construction budget for 2009 was €18 million.
Passion façade (April 2012)
Passion façade (2010)
Nativity façade (2010)
West side (cranes removed). (2009)
Glory façade (2008)
Sagrada Família Nativity façade by night (March 2006)
Passion façade (2004)
Nativity façade (2004)
Scale model at the
Catalunya en Miniatura
park
Nave ceiling (2011)
Standing in the transept and looking northeast (2011)
Zoom in the façade (2011)
Antoni Gaudi: 25 June 1852–10 June 1926
Antoni Gaudi is the first architect to design and work on the cathedral. He  was a Spanish
Catalan
architect and figurehead of
Catalan Modernism . Gaudí's works reflect his highly individual and distinctive style and are largely concentrated in the Catalan capital of
Barcelona , notably his magnum opus, the Sagrada Família.
His work was deeply influenced by his passion about 4 things: religion, architecture, nature, and his love for Catalonia. Gaudí studied every detail of his creations, integrating into his architecture a series of crafts in which he was skilled: ceramics, stained glass, wrought ironwork forging and carpentry. He introduced new techniques in the treatment of materials, such as
trencadís , made of waste ceramic pieces. It safe to say that he was a man of many talents.
Antoni Gaudí was born in 1852 in Riudoms or in Reus,
to the industrial boilermaker
Francesc Gaudí i Serra (1813–1906) and Antònia Cornet i Bertran
(1819–1876). He was the youngest of five children, of whom three
survived to adulthood: Rosa (1844–1879), Francesc (1851–1876) and
Antoni. Gaudí’s family originated in the Auvergne region
in southern France. One of his ancestors, Joan Gaudí, a hawker, moved
to Catalonia in the 17th century; possible origins of Gaudí's family
name include Gaudy or Gaudin.
Gaudí's exact birthplace is unknown because no supporting documents
have been found, leading to a controversy about whether he was born in
Reus or Riudoms, two neighbouring municipalities of the Baix Camp
district. Most of Gaudí's identification documents from both his
student and professional years gave Reus as his birthplace. Gaudí stated
on various occasions that he was born in Riudoms, his paternal family's
village. Gaudí was baptised in the church of Sant Pere Apòstol in Reus the day after his birth under the name "Antoni Plàcid Guillem Gaudí i Cornet".
Gaudí had a deep appreciation for his native land and great pride in
his Mediterranean heritage. He believed Mediterranean people to be
endowed with creativity, originality and an innate sense for art and
design. Gaudí reportedly described this distinction by stating, "We own
the image. Fantasy comes from the ghosts. Fantasy is what people in the
North own. We are concrete. The image comes from the Mediterranean. Orestes knows his way, where Hamlet is torn apart by his doubts."
Time spent outdoors, particularly during summer stays in the Gaudí
family home Mas de la Calderera, afforded Gaudí the opportunity to study
nature. Gaudí's enjoyment of the natural world led him to join the
Centre Excursionista de Catalunya in 1879 at the age of 27. The
organisation arranged expeditions to explore Catalonia and southern
France, often riding on horseback or walking ten kilometres a day. [ 14 ]
Young Gaudí suffered from poor health, including rheumatism, which may have contributed to his reticent and reserved character.
These health concerns and the hygienist theories of Dr. Kneipp
contributed to Gaudí's decision to adopt vegetarianism early in his life.
His religious faith and strict vegetarianism led him to undertake several lengthy and severe fasts. These fasts were often unhealthy and occasionally, as in 1894, led to life-threatening illness.
Gaudí attended a nursery school run by Francesc Berenguer, whose son,
also called Francesc, later became one of Gaudí’s main assistants. He
enrolled in the Piarists school in Reus where he displayed his artistic talents via drawings for a seminar called
El Arlequín
(the Harlequin). During this time he worked as an apprentice in the "Vapor Nou" textile mill
in Reus. In 1868 he moved to Barcelona to study teaching in the Convent
del Carme. In his adolescent years Gaudí became interested in utopian socialism and, together with his fellow students Eduard Toda i Güell and Josep Ribera i Sans, planned a restoration of the Poblet monastery that would have transformed it into a Utopian phalanstère.
Between 1875 and 1878, Gaudí completed his compulsory military service in the infantry
regiment in Barcelona as a Military Administrator. Most of his service
was spent on sick leave, enabling him to continue his studies. His poor
health kept him from having to fight in the Third Carlist War, which lasted from 1872 to 1876.
In 1876 Gaudí's mother died at the age of 57, as did his 25-year-old
brother Francesc, who had just graduated as a physician. During this
time Gaudí studied architecture at the Llotja School and the Barcelona
Higher School of Architecture, graduating in 1878. To finance his
studies, Gaudí worked as a draughtsman for various architects and constructors such as Leandre Serrallach, Joan Martorell, Emili Sala Cortés, Francisco de Paula del Villar y Lozano and Josep Fontserè.
In addition to his architecture classes, he studied French, history, economics, philosophy and
aesthetics . His grades were average and he occasionally failed courses. [ 24 ]
When handing him his degree,
Elies Rogent ,
director of Barcelona Architecture School, said: "We have given this
academic title either to a fool or a genius. Time will show." [ 25 ]
Gaudí, when receiving his degree, reportedly told his friend, the sculptor
Llorenç Matamala , with his ironical sense of humour, "Llorenç, they’re saying I’m an architect now." [ 26 ]
Gaudí’s first projects were the lampposts he designed for the Plaça Reial in Barcelona, the unfinished Girossi newsstands, and the Cooperativa Obrera Mataronense (Workers' Cooperative of Mataró) building. He gained wider recognition for his first important commission, the Casa Vicens, and subsequently received more significant proposals. At the
Paris World's Fair of 1878
Gaudí displayed a showcase he had produced for the glove manufacturer Comella. Its functional and aesthetic
modernista
design impressed Catalan industrialist Eusebi Güell, who then
commissioned some of Gaudí’s most outstanding work: the Güell wine
cellars, the Güell pavilions, the
Palau Güell
(Güell palace), the Park Güell (Güell park) and the crypt of the church of the
Colònia Güell .
Gaudí also became a friend of the marquis of Comillas, the
father-in-law of Count Güell, for whom he designed "El Capricho" in
Comillas .
In 1883 Gaudí was put in charge of the recently-initiated project to build a Barcelona cathedral called
Basílica i Temple Expiatori de la Sagrada Família
(Basilica and Expiatory Church of the Holy Family, or Sagrada Família).
Gaudí completely changed the initial design and imbued it with his own
distinctive style. From 1915 until his death he devoted himself entirely
to this project. Given the number of commissions he began receiving, he
had to rely on his team to work on multiple projects simultaneously.
His team consisted of professionals from all fields of construction.
Several of the architects who worked under him became prominent in the
field later on, such as
Josep Maria Jujol ,
Joan Rubió ,
Cèsar Martinell , Francesc Folguera and Josep Francesc Ràfols. In 1885, Gaudí moved to rural
Sant Feliu de Codines
to escape the cholera
epidemic that was ravaging Barcelona. He lived in Francesc Ullar’s
house, for whom he designed a dinner table as a sign of his gratitude. [ 27 ]
The
1888 World Fair
was one of the era's major events in Barcelona and represented a key point in the history of the
Modernisme
movement. Leading architects displayed their best works, including
Gaudí, who showcased the building he had designed for the Compañía
Trasatlántica (Transatlantic Company). Consequently he received a
commission to restructure the Saló de Cent of the Barcelona City
Council, but this project was ultimately not carried out. In the early
1890s Gaudí received two commissions from outside of Catalonia, namely
the
Bishop's Palace of Astorga
and the
Casa Botines
in
León . These works contributed to Gaudí's growing renown across Spain. In 1891, he travelled to
Málaga
and
Tangiers
to examine the site for a project for the Franciscan Catholic Missions
that the 2nd marquis of Comillas had requested him to design.
In 1899 Gaudí joined the
Cercle Artístic de Sant Lluc
(Saint Luke artistic circle), a Catholic artistic society founded in 1893 by the bishop
Josep Torras i Bages
and the brothers
Josep
and Joan Llimona. He also joined the Lliga Espiritual de la Mare de Déu
de Montserrat (spiritual league of Our lady of Montserrat), another
Catholic
Catalan
organisation.
The conservative and religious character of his political thought was
closely linked to his defence of the cultural identity of the Catalan
people.
At the beginning of the century, Gaudí was working on numerous
projects simultaneously. They reflected his shift to a more personal
style inspired by nature. In 1900, he received an award for the best
building of the year from the Barcelona City Council for his
Casa Calvet .
During the first decade of the century Gaudí dedicated himself to
projects like the Casa Figueras (Figueras house, better known as
Bellesguard ), the
Park Güell ,
an unsuccessful urbanisation project, and the restoration of the
Cathedral of Palma de Mallorca, for which he visited Majorca several
times. Between 1904 and 1910 he constructed the
Casa Batlló
(Batlló house) and the
Casa Milà
(Milá house), two of his most emblematic works.
As a result of Gaudí’s increasing fame, in 1902 the painter Joan Llimona chose Gaudí’s features to represent
Saint Philip Neri
in the paintings for the aisle of the Sant Felip Neri church in Barcelona.
Together with Joan Santaló, son of his friend the physician Pere Santaló, he unsuccessfully founded a
wrought iron
manufacturing company the same year.
After moving to Barcelona, Gaudí frequently changed his address: as a
student he lived in residences, generally in the area of the Gothic
Quarter; when he started his career he moved around several rented flats
in the
Eixample
area. Finally, in 1906, he settled in a house in the Güell Park that he
owned and which had been constructed by his assistant Francesc
Berenguer as a showcase property for the estate. It has since been
transformed into the Gaudí Museum. There he lived with his father (who
died in 1906 at the age of 93) and his niece Rosa Egea Gaudí (who died
in 1912 at the age of 36). He lived in the house until 1925, several
months before his death, when he began residing inside the workshop of
the Sagrada Família.
An event that had a profound impact on Gaudí’s personality was
Tragic Week
in 1909. Gaudí remained in his house in Güell Park during this
turbulent period. The anticlerical atmosphere and attacks on churches
and convents caused Gaudí to worry for the safety of the Sagrada
Família, but the building escaped damage.
In 1910, an exhibition in the
Grand Palais
of Paris was devoted to his work, during the annual salon of the
Société des Beaux-Arts (Fine Arts Society) of France. Gaudí participated
on the invitation of count Güell, displaying a series of pictures,
plans and plaster scale models of several of his works. Although he
participated
hors concours , he received good reviews from the
French press. A large part of this exposition could be seen the
following year at the I Salón Nacional de Arquitectura that took place
in the municipal exhibition hall of
Buen Retiro
in Madrid.
During the Paris exposition in May 1910, Gaudí spent a holiday in
Vic , where he designed two
basalt
lampposts and wrought iron for the Plaça Major of Vic in honor of
Jaume Balmes ’s centenary. The following year he resided as a convalescent in
Puigcerdà
while suffering from
tuberculosis . During this time he conceived the idea for the facade of the Passion of the Sagrada Família.
Due to ill health he prepared a will at the office of the notary Ramon Cantó i Figueres on 9 June, but later completely recovered.
The decade from 1910 was a hard one for Gaudí. During this decade,
the architect experienced the deaths of his niece Rosa in 1912 and his
main collaborator Francesc Berenguer in 1914; a severe economic crisis
which paralysed work on the Sagrada Família in 1915; the 1916 death of
his friend Josep Torras i Bages, bishop of Vic; the 1917 disruption of
work at the Colonia Güell; and the 1918 death of his friend and patron
Eusebi Güell.
Perhaps because of these tragedies he devoted himself entirely to the
Sagrada Família from 1915, taking refuge in his work. Gaudí confessed to
his collaborators:
My good friends are dead; I have no family and no
clients, no fortune nor anything. Now I can dedicate myself entirely to
the Church.
Gaudí dedicated the last years of his life entirely to the “Cathedral of the Poor”, as it was commonly known, for which he took alms
in order to continue. Apart from his dedication to this cause, he
participated in few other activities, the majority of which were related
to his Catholic faith: in 1916 he participated in a course about
Gregorian chant
at the
Palau de la Música Catalana
taught by the
Benedictine
monk Gregori M. Sunyol.
Gaudí devoted his life entirely to his profession, remaining single.
He is only known to have been attracted to one woman—Josefa Moreu,
teacher at the Mataró Cooperative, in 1884—but this was not
reciprocated.
Thereafter Gaudí took refuge in the profound spiritual peace his
Catholic faith offered him. Gaudí is often depicted as unsociable and
unpleasant, a man of gruff reactions and arrogant gestures. However,
those who were close to him described him as friendly and polite,
pleasant to talk to and faithful to friends. Among these, his patrons
Eusebi Güell and the bishop of Vic, Josep Torras i Bages, stand out, as
well as the writers
Joan Maragall
and
Jacint Verdaguer , the physician Pere Santaló and some of his most faithful collaborators, such as Francesc Berenguer and Llorenç Matamala.
Gaudí’s personal appearance—Nordic features, blond hair and blue
eyes—changed radically over the course of time. As a young man, he
dressed like a
dandy
in costly suits, sporting well-groomed hair and beard, indulging
gourmet
taste, making frequent visits to the theatre and the opera and visiting
his project sites in a horse carriage. The older Gaudí ate frugally,
dressed in old, worn-out suits, and neglected his appearance to the
extent that sometimes he was taken for a beggar, such as after the accident that caused his death.
Gaudí left hardly any written documents, apart from technical reports
of his works required by official authorities, some letters to friends
(particularly to Joan Maragall) and a few journal articles. Some quotes
collected by his assistants and disciples have been preserved, above all
by Josep Francesc Ràfols, Joan Bergós,
Cèsar Martinell
and Isidre Puig i Boada. The only written document Gaudí left is known
as the Manuscrito de Reus (Reus Manuscript) (1873–1878), a kind of
student diary in which he collected diverse impressions of architecture
and decorating, putting forward his ideas on the subject. Included are
an analysis of the Christian church and of his ancestral home, as well
as a text about ornamentation and comments on the design of a desk.
Gaudí was always in favour of statehood for Catalonia
but was reluctant to become politically active. Politicians, such as
Francesc Cambó
and
Enric Prat de la Riba , suggested that he run for deputy but he refused. In 1920 he was beaten by police in a riot during the
Floral Games
celebrations.
On 11 September 1924,
National Day of Catalonia , he was beaten at a demonstration against the banning of the Catalan language by the dictatorship of
Primo de Rivera . Gaudí was arrested by the
Civil Guard , resulting in a short stay in prison, from which he was freed after paying 50 pesetas bail.
Death
Gaudí’s funeral (12 June 1926)
On 7 June 1926, Gaudí was taking his daily walk to the Sant Felip
Neri church for his habitual prayer and confession. While walking along
the
Gran Via de les Corts Catalanes
between Girona and Bailén streets, he was struck by a passing tram and lost consciousness.
Assumed to be a beggar because of his lack of identity documents and
shabby clothing, the unconscious Gaudí did not receive immediate aid.
Eventually a police officer transported him in a taxi to the
Santa Creu Hospital , where he received rudimentary care.
By the time that the chaplain of the Sagrada Família, Mosén Gil Parés,
recognised him on the following day, Gaudí's condition had deteriorated
too severely to benefit from additional treatment. Gaudí died on 10 June
1926 at the age of 73 and was buried two days later. A large crowd
gathered to bid farewell to him in the chapel of Our Lady of Mount
Carmel in the crypt of the Sagrada Família. His gravestone bears this
inscription:
Antonius Gaudí Cornet. Reusensis. Annos natus LXXIV, vitae exemplaris
vir, eximiusque artifex, mirabilis operis hujus, templi auctor, pie
obiit Barcinone die X Junii MCMXXVI, hinc cineres tanti hominis,
resurrectionem mortuorum expectant. R.I.P.
Gaudí and
Modernisme
The four-armed cross, one of the most typical features of Gaudí's works
Gaudí's professional life was distinctive in that he never ceased to
investigate mechanical building structures. Early on, Gaudí was inspired
by oriental arts ( India ,
Persia , Japan) through the study of the
historicist
architectural theoreticians, such as
Walter Pater ,
John Ruskin
and
William Morris . The influence of the Oriental movement can be seen in works like the Capricho, the Güell Palace, the Güell Pavilions and the
Casa Vicens . Later on, he adhered to the neo-Gothic movement that was in fashion at the time, following the ideas of the French architect
Viollet-le-Duc .
This influence is reflected in the Colegi de les Teresianes, the
bishop's palace in Astorga, the Casa Botines and the Bellesguard house
as well as in the crypt and the apse of the Sagrada Família. Eventually,
Gaudí embarked on a more personal phase, with the organic style
inspired by nature in which he would build his major works.
During his time as a student, Gaudí was able to study a collection of
photographs of Egyptian, Indian, Persian, Mayan, Chinese and Japanese
art owned by the School of Architecture. The collection also included
Moorish
monuments in Spain, which left a deep mark on him and served as an inspiration in many of his works. He also studied the book
Plans, elevations, sections and details of the Alhambra
by
Owen Jones , which he borrowed from the School’s library.
He took various structural and ornamental solutions from
nazarí
and
mudéjar
art, which he used with variations and stylistic freedom in his works. Notably, Gaudí observed of
Islamic art
its spatial uncertainty, its concept of structures with limitless
space; its feeling of sequence, fragmented with holes and partitions,
which create a divide without disrupting the feeling of open space by
enclosing it with barriers.
Undoubtedly the style that most influenced him was the
Gothic Revival , promoted in the latter half of the 19th century by the theoretical works of
Viollet-le-Duc .
The French architect called for studying the styles of the past and
adapting them in a rational manner, taking into account both structure
and design.
Nonetheless, for Gaudí the Gothic style was "imperfect", because
despite the effectiveness of some of its structural solutions it was an
art that had yet to be "perfected”. In his own words:
Gothic art is imperfect, only half resolved; it is a style created by
the compasses, a formulaic industrial repetition. Its stability depends
on constant propping up by the buttresses: it is a defective body held
up on crutches. (...) The proof that Gothic works are of deficient
plasticity is that they produce their greatest emotional effect when
they are mutilated, covered in ivy and lit by the moon.
The salamander in
Park Güell
has become a symbol of Gaudí's work.
After these initial influences, Gaudí moved towards
Modernisme , then in its heyday.
Modernisme
in its earlier stages was inspired by historic architecture. Its
practitioners saw its return to the past as a response to the industrial
forms imposed by the
Industrial Revolution 's technological advances. The use of these older styles represented a moral regeneration that allowed the
bourgeoisie
to identify with values they regarded as their cultural roots. The
Renaixença
(rebirth), the revival of Catalan culture that began in the second half
of the 19th century, brought more Gothic forms into the Catalan
“national” style that aimed to combine nationalism and cosmopolitanism
while at the same time integrating into the European modernizing
movement.
Some essential features of
Modernisme
were: an anticlassical language inherited from
Romanticism
with a tendency to lyricism and subjectivity; the determined connection
of architecture with the applied arts and artistic work that produced
an overtly ornamental style; the use of new materials from which emerged
a mixed constructional language, rich in contrasts, that sought a
plastic effect for the whole; a strong sense of optimism and faith in
progress that produced an emphatic art that reflected the atmosphere of
prosperity of the time, above all of the esthetic of the bourgeoisie.
Quest for a new architectural language
Gaudí is usually considered the great master of Catalan Modernism,
but his works go beyond any one style or classification. They are
imaginative works that find their main inspiration in nature. Gaudí
studied organic and
anarchic
geometric forms of nature thoroughly, searching for a way to give
expression to these forms in architecture. Some of his greatest
inspirations came from visits to the mountain of
Montserrat , the caves of
Mallorca , the
saltpetre
caves in
Collbató ), the crag of Fra Guerau in the
Prades Mountains
behind Reus, the Pareis mountain in the north of Mallorca and Sant Miquel del Fai in Bigues i Riells.
Geometrical forms
The nave in the Sagrada Familia with a
hyperboloid
vault . Inspiration from nature is taken from a
tree , as the pillar and branches symbolise trees rising up to the roof.
This study of nature translated into his use of
ruled geometrical forms
such as the
hyperbolic paraboloid , the
hyperboloid , the
helicoid
and the
cone , which reflect the forms Gaudí found in nature Ruled surfaces are forms generated by a straight line known as the
generatrix , as it moves over one or several lines known as
directrices . Gaudí found abundant examples of them in nature, for instance in
rushes ,
reeds
and
bones ; he used to say that there is no better structure than the trunk of a tree or a
human skeleton .
These forms are at the same time functional and aesthetic, and Gaudí
discovered how to adapt the language of nature to the structural forms
of architecture. He used to equate the
helicoid
form to movement and the
hyperboloid
to light. Concerning ruled surfaces, he said:
Paraboloids, hyperboloids and helicoids, constantly varying the
incidence of the light, are rich in matrices themselves, which make
ornamentation and even modelling unnecessary.
Another element widely used by Gaudí was the
catenary curve . He had studied
geometry
thoroughly when he was young, studying numerous articles about
engineering ,
a field that praised the virtues of the catenary curve as a mechanical
element, one which at that time, however, was used only in the
construction
suspension bridges .
Gaudí was the first to use this element in common architecture.
Catenary arches in works like the Casa Milà, the School of the
Teresianas, the crypt of the Colònia Güell and the Sagrada Família
allowed Gaudí to add an element of great strength to his structures,
given that the catenary distributes the weight it regularly carries
evenly, being affected only by self-canceling
tangential
forces.
Gaudí evolved from
plane
to
spatial geometry ,
to ruled geometry. These constructional forms are highly suited to the
use of cheap materials such as brick. Gaudí frequently used brick laid
with mortar in successive layers, as in the traditional
Catalan vault .
This quest for new structural solutions culminated between 1910 and
1920, when he exploited his research and experience in his masterpiece,
the Sagrada Família. Gaudí conceived this church as if it were the
structure of a forest, with a set of tree-like
columns
divided into various branches to support a structure of intertwined hyperboloid
vaults .
He inclined the columns so they could better resist the perpendicular
pressures on their section. He also gave them a double turn helicoid
shape (right turn and left turn), as in the branches and trunks of
trees. This created a structure that is now known as
fractal .
Together with a modulation of the space that divides it into small,
independent and self-supporting modules, it creates a structure that
perfectly supports the mechanical traction forces without need for
buttresses , as required by the neo-Gothic style.
Gaudí thus achieved a rational, structured and perfectly logical
solution, creating at the same time a new architectural style that was
original, simple, practical and aesthetic.
Surpassing the Gothic
This new constructional technique allowed Gaudí to achieve his
greatest architectural goal; to perfect and go beyond Gothic style. The
hyperboloid vaults have their centre where Gothic vaults had their
keystone, and the hyperboloid allows for a hole in this space to let
natural light in. In the intersection between vaults, where Gothic
vaults have ribs, the hyperboloid allows for holes as well, which Gaudí
employed to give the impression of a starry sky.
Gaudí complemented this organic vision of architecture with a unique
spatial vision that allowed him to conceive his designs in three
dimensions, unlike the flat design of traditional architecture. He used
to say that he had acquired this spatial sense as a boy by looking at
the drawings his father made of the boilers and stills he produced.
Because of this spatial conception, Gaudí always preferred to work with
casts and scale models or even improvise on site as a work progressed.
Reluctant to draw plans, only on rare occasions did he sketch his works,
in fact only when required by authorities.
An upside down force model of the
Colònia Güell , Sagrada Família Museum
Another of Gaudí’s innovations in the technical realm was the use of a
scale model to calculate structures: for the church of the Colònia
Güell, he built a 1:10 scale model with a height of 4 metres (13 ft) in a
shed next to the building. There, he set up a model that had strings
with small bags full of bullets hanging from them. On a drawing board
that was attached to the ceiling he drew the floor of the church, and he
hung the strings (for the catenaries) with the bullets (for the weight)
from the supporting points of the building—columns, intersection of
walls. These weights produced a catenary curve both in the arches and
vaults. At that point, he took a picture that, when inverted, showed the
structure for columns and arches that Gaudí was looking for. Gaudí then
painted over these photographs with
gouache
or
pastel . The outline of the church defined, he recorded every single detail of the building: architectural, stylistic and decorative.
Gaudí's position in the history of architecture is that of a creative
genius who, inspired by nature, developed a style of his own that
attained technical perfection as well as aesthetic value, and bore the
mark of his character. Gaudí’s structural innovations were to an extent
the result of his journey through various styles, from
Doric
to
Baroque
via
Gothic ,
his main inspiration. It could be said that these styles culminated in
his work, who reinterpreted and perfected them. Gaudí passed through the
historicism and eclecticism of his generation without connecting with
other architectural movements of the 20th century that, with their
rationalist postulates, derived from the
Bauhaus
school, and represented an antithetical evolution to that initiated by
Gaudí, given that it later reflected the disdain and the initial lack of
comprehension of the work of the
modernista
architect.
Other factors that led to the initial neglect of the Catalan
architect's work was that despite having numerous assistants and
helpers, Gaudí create no school of his own and never taught, nor did he
leave written documents. Some of his subordinates adopted his
innovations, above all Francesc Berenguer and
Josep Maria Jujol ; others, like
Cèsar Martinell , Francesc Folguera and Josep Francesc Ràfols graduated towards
Noucentisme , leaving the master’s trail.
Despite this, a degree of influence can be discerned in some architects that either formed part of the
Modernista
movement or departed from it and who had had no direct contact with him, such as Josep Maria Pericas (Casa Alòs,
Ripoll ), Bernardí Martorell ( Olius
cemetery) and Lluís Muncunill (Masía Freixa,
Terrassa ). Nonetheless, Gaudí left a deep mark on 20th century architecture: masters like
Le Corbusier
declared themselves admirers, and the works of other architects like
Pier Luigi Nervi ,
Friedensreich Hundertwasser ,
Oscar Niemeyer ,
Félix Candela ,
Eduardo Torroja
and
Santiago Calatrava
were inspired by Gaudí.
Frei Otto
used Gaudí’s forms in the construction of the
Munich Olympic Stadium . In Japan, the work of
Kenji Imai
bears evidence of Gaudí’s influence, as can be seen in the Memorial for the
Twenty-six Martyrs of Japan
in
Nagasaki
(Japanese National Architecture Award in 1962), where the use of Gaudí's famous “trencadís" stands out.
Design and craftsmanship
Entrance gate of the
Güell Pavilions
During his student days, Gaudí attended craft workshops, such as
those taught by Eudald Puntí, Llorenç Matamala and Joan Oñós, where he
learned the basic aspects of techniques relating to architecture,
including sculpture,
carpentry ,
wrought ironwork ,
stained glass ,
ceramics ,
plaster
modelling, etc.
He also absorbed new technological developments, integrating into his
technique the use of iron and reinforced concrete in construction. Gaudí
took a broad view of architecture as a multifunctional design, in which
every single detail in an arrangement has to be harmoniously made and
well-proportioned. This knowledge allowed him to design architectural
projects, including all the elements of his works, from furnishings to
illumination to wrought ironwork.
Gaudí was also an innovator in the realm of craftsmanship, conceiving
new technical and decorative solutions with his materials, for example
his way of designing ceramic mosaics made of waste pieces (“ trencadís ”)
in original and imaginative combinations. For the restoration of
Mallorca Cathedral he invented a new technique to produce stained glass,
which consisted of juxtaposing three glass panes of
primary colours , and sometimes a neutral one, varying the thickness of the glass in order to graduate the light's intensity.
Dedicatory object for
Orfeó Català
(1922), designed by Gaudí, drawn by Francesc Quintana and coloured by
Josep Maria Jujol
This was how he personally designed many of the Sagrada Família’s sculptures. He would thoroughly study the
anatomy
of the figure, concentrating on gestures. For this purpose, he studied
the human skeleton and sometimes used dummies made of wire to test the
appropriate posture of the figure he was about to sculpt. In a second
step, he photographed his models, using a mirror system that provided
multiple perspectives. He then made plaster casts of the figures, both
of people and animals (on one occasion he made a donkey stand up so it
would not move). He modified the proportions of these casts to obtain
the figure's desired appearance, depending on its place in the church
(the higher up, the bigger it would be). Eventually, he sculpted the
figures in stone.
Urban spaces and landscaping
Gaudí also practiced landscaping, often in urban settings. He aimed
to place his works in the most appropriate natural and architectural
surroundings by studying the location of his constructions thoroughly
and trying to naturally integrate them into those surroundings. For this
purpose, he often used the material that was most common in the nearby
environment, such as the
slate
of Bellesguard and the grey
Bierzo
granite
in the Bishop’s Palace of Astorga. Many of his projects were gardens,
such as the Güell Park and the Can Artigas Gardens, or incorporated
gardens, as in the Casa Vicens or the Güell Pavilions. Gaudí's
harmonious approach to landscaping is exemplified at the First Mystery
of the Glory of the Rosary at Montserrat, where the architectural
framework is nature itself—here the Montserrat rock—nature encircles the
group of sculptures that adorned the path to the Holy Cave.
Interiors
Interior of the
Casa Vicens
Equally, Gaudí stood out as
interior decorator ,
decorating most of his buildings personally, from the furnishings to
the smallest details. In each case he knew how to apply stylistic
particularities, personalising the decoration according to the owner’s
taste, the predominant style of the arrangement or its place in the
surroundings—whether urban or natural, secular or religious. Many of his
works were related to
liturgical
furnishing. From the design of a desk for his office at the beginning
of his career to the furnishings designed for the Sobrellano Palace of
Comillas ,
he designed all furnishing of the Vicens, Calvet, Batlló and Milà
houses, of the Güell Palace and the Bellesguard Tower, and the
liturgical furnishing of the Sagrada Família. It is noteworthy that
Gaudí studied some
ergonomy
in order to adapt his furnishings to human anatomy. Many of his furnishings are exhibited at Gaudí Museum.
Another aspect is the intelligent distribution of space, always with
the aim of creating a comfortable, intimate, interior atmosphere. For
this purpose, Gaudí would divide the space into sections, adapted to
their specific use, by means of low walls, dropped ceilings, sliding
doors and wall closets. Apart from taking care of every detail of all
structural and ornamental elements, he made sure his constructions had
good lighting and ventilation. For this purpose, he studied each
project's orientation with respect to the cardinal points, as well as
the local climate and its place in its surroundings. At that time, there
was an increasing demand for more domestic comfort, with piped water
and gas and the use of electric light, all of which Gaudí expertly
incorporated. For the Sagrada Família, for example, he carried out
thorough studies on
acoustics
and illumination, in order to optimise them. With regard to light, he stated:
Light achieves maximum harmony at an inclination of 45°, since it
resides on objects in a way that is neither horizontal nor vertical.
This can be considered medium light, and it offers the most perfect
vision of objects and their most exquisite nuances. It is the
Mediterranean light.
Lighting also served Gaudí for the organisation of space, which
required a careful study of the gradient of light intensity to
adequately adapt to each specific environment. He achieved this with
different elements such as skylights, windows, shutters and blinds; a
notable case is the gradation of colour used in the
atrium
of the
Casa Batlló
to achieve uniform distribution of light throughout the interior. He
also tended to build south-facing houses to maximise sunlight.
Works
Main article:
List of Gaudí buildings
Gaudí’s work is normally classed as
modernista ,
and it belongs to this movement because of its eagerness to renovate
without breaking with tradition, its quest for modernity, the ornamental
sense applied to works, and the multidisciplinary character of its
undertakings, where craftsmanship plays a central role. To this, Gaudí
adds a dose of the baroque, adopts technical advances and continues to
use traditional architectural language. Together with his inspiration
from nature and the original touch of his works, this amalgam gives his
works their personal and unique character in the history of
architecture.
Chronologically, it is difficult to establish guidelines that
illustrate the evolution of Gaudí’s style faithfully. Although he moved
on from his initially historicist approach to immerse himself completely
in the
modernista
movement which arose so vigorously in the last
third of the 19th century in Catalonia, before finally attaining his
personal, organic style, this process did not consist of clearly-defined
stages with obvious boundaries: rather, at every stage there are
reflections of all the earlier ones, as he gradually assimilated and
surpassed them. One of the best descriptions of Gaudí’s work was made by
his disciple and biographer Joan Bergós, according to plastic and
structural criteria. Bergós establishes five periods in Gaudí’s
productions: preliminary period, mudéjar-morisco (Moorish/mudéjar art),
emulated Gothic, naturalist and expressionist, and organic synthesis.
Early works
Gaudís first works both from his student days and the time just after
his graduation stand out for the precision of their details, the use of
geometry and the prevalence of mechanical considerations in the
structural calculations.
University years
During his studies, Gaudí designed various projects, among which the
following stand out: a cemetery gate (1875), a Spanish pavilion for the
Philadelphia World Fair of 1876, a quay-side building (1876), a
courtyard for the
Diputació de Barcelona
(1876), a monumental fountain for the
Plaça Catalunya
in Barcelona (1877) and a university
assembly hall
(1877).
Student works
Cemetery gate (1875)
Quay-side building (1876)
Fountain in Plaça Catalunya (1877)
University assembly hall (1877)
Antoni Gaudí started his professional career while still at
university. To pay for his studies, he worked as a draughtsman for some
of the most outstanding Barcelona architects of the time, such as
Joan Martorell ,
Josep Fontserè ,
Francisco de Paula del Villar y Lozano , Leandre Serrallach and Emili Sala Cortés.
Gaudí had a long-standing relationship with Josep Fontserè, since his
family was also from Riudoms and they had known each other for some
time. Despite not having an architecture degree, Fontserè received the
commission from the city council for the
Parc de la Ciutadella
development, carried out between 1873 and 1882. For this project, Gaudí
was in charge of the design of the Park's entrance gate, the
bandstand's balustrade and the water project for the monumental
fountain, where he designed an artificial cave that showed his liking
for nature and the organic touch he would give his architecture.
Gaudí worked for
Francisco de Paula del Villar
on the apse of the Montserrat monastery, designing the niche for the image of the
Black Virgin of Montserrat
in 1876. He would later substitute Villar in the works of the Sagrada
Família. With Leandre Serrallach, he worked on a tram line project to
Villa Arcadia in Montjuïc. Eventually, he collaborated with Joan
Martorell on the Jesuit church on Carrer Casp and the Salesian convent
in Passeig de Sant Joan, as well as the Villaricos church (Almería). He
also carried out a project for Martorell for the competition for a new
facade for
Barcelona cathedral ,
which was never accepted. His relationship with Martorell, whom he
always considered one of his main and most influential masters, brought
him unexpected luck; he later recommended Gaudí for the Sagrada Família.
Early post-graduation projects
After his graduation as an architect in 1878, Gaudí's first work was a set of lampposts for the
Plaça Reial ,
the project for the Girossi newsstands and the Mataró cooperative,
which was his first important work. He received the request from the
city council of Barcelona in February 1878, when he had graduated but
not yet received his degree, which was sent from Madrid on 15 March of
the same year.
For this commission he designed two types of lampposts: one with six
arms, of which two were installed in the Plaça Reial, and another with
three, of which two were installed in the Pla del Palau, opposite the
Civil Government. The lampposts were inaugurated during the
Mercè
festivities in 1879. Made of cast iron with a
marble
base, they have a decoration in which the
caduceus
of
Mercury
is prominent, symbol of commerce and emblem of Barcelona.
Early post-graduate works
Lampposts
Girossi newsstands
Esteban Comella display
Gibert Pharmacy
The Girossi newsstands project, which was never carried out, was a
commission from the tradesman Enrique Girossi de Sanctis. It would have
consisted of 20
newsstands ,
spread throughout Barcelona. Each would have included a public
lavatory, a flower stand and glass panels for advertisements as well as a
clock, a calendar, a
barometer
and a
thermometer .
Gaudí conceived a structure with iron pillars and marble and glass
slabs, crowned by a large iron and glass roof, with a gas illumination
system.
The Cooperativa Obrera Mataronense (Mataró Workers' Cooperative) was
Gaudí’s first big project, on which he worked from 1878 to 1882, for
Salvador Pagès i Anglada. The project, for the cooperative’s head office
in Mataró, comprised a factory, a worker's housing estate, a social
centre and a services building, though only the factory and the services
building were completed. In the factory roof Gaudí used the catenary
arch for the first time, with a bolt assembly system devised by
Philibert de l'Orme.
He also used ceramic tile decoration for the first time in the services
building. Gaudí laid out the site taking account of solar orientation,
another signature of his works, and included landscaped areas. He even
designed the Cooperative’s banner, with the figure of a bee, symbol of industriousness.
In May 1878 Gaudí designed a display cabinet for the Esteban Comella
glove factory, which was exhibited in the Spanish pavilion at the Paris
World Exhibition that year.
It was this work that attracted the attention of the entrepreneur
Eusebi Güell ,
visiting the French capital; he was so impressed that he wanted to meet
Gaudí on his return, beginning a long friendship and professional
collaboration. Güell became Gaudí’s main patron and sponsor of many of
his large projects.
First Güell projects
Güell's first task for Gaudí, that same year, was the design of the
furniture for the pantheon chapel of the Palacio de Sobrellano in
Comillas, which was then being constructed by Joan Martorell, Gaudí’s
teacher, at the request of the Marquis of Comillas, Güell’s father in
law. Gaudí designed a chair, a bench and a prayer stool: the chair was
upholstered with velvet, finished with two eagles and the Marquis’ coat
of arms; the bench stands out with the motif of a dragon, designed by
Llorenç Matamala; the prayer stool is decorated with plants.
Also in 1878 he drew up the plans for a theatre in the former town of
Sant Gervasi de Cassoles (now a district of Barcelona); Gaudí did not
take part in the construction of the theatre, which no longer exists.
The following year he designed the furniture and counter for the Gibert
Pharmacy, with
marquetry
of Arab influence. The same year he made five drawings for a procession
in honour of the poet Francesc Vicent Garcia i Torres in
Vallfogona de Riucorb , where this celebrated 17th-century writer and friend of
Lope de Vega
was the parish priest. Gaudí’s project was centred on the poet and on
several aspects of agricultural work, such as reaping and harvesting
grapes and olives; however, as a result of organisational problems
Gaudí’s ideas were not carried out.
Between 1879 and 1881 he drew up a proposal for the decoration of the
church of Sant Pacià, belonging to the Colegio de Jesús-María in Sant
Andreu del Palomar: he created the
altar
in a Gothic style, the
monstrance
with
Byzantine
influence, the
mosaics
and the lighting, as well as the school’s furniture. The church caught fire during the
Tragic Week
of 1909, and now only the mosaics remain, of “opus tesselatum”, probably the work of the Italian mosaicist Luigi Pellerin.
He was given the task of decorating the church of the Colegio de
Jesús-María in Tarragona (1880–1882): he created the altar in white
Italian marble, and its front part, or
antependium , with four columns bearing medallions of polychrome
alabaster , with figures of angels; the
ostensory
with gilt wood, the work of Eudald Puntí, decorated with rosaries, angels,
tetramorph
symbols and the dove of the Holy Ghost; and the choir stalls, which were destroyed in 1936.
In 1880 he designed an electric lighting project for Barcelona’s Muralla de Mar, or
seawall , which was not carried out. It consisted of eight large iron streetlamps, profusely decorated with plant
motifs ,
friezes ,
shields and names of battles and Catalan admirals. The same year he
participated in the competition for the construction of the San
Sebastián social centre (now town hall), won by Luis Aladrén Mendivi and
Adolfo Morales de los Ríos; Gaudí submitted a project that synthesised
several of his earlier studies, such as the fountain for the Plaça
Catalunya and the courtyard of the Provincial Council.
Collaboration with Martorell
Gaudí’s drawing for the facade of the
Barcelona Cathedral
A new task of the Güell-López’s for
Comillas
was the
gazebo
for
Alfonso XII ’s visit to the
Cantabrian
town in 1881. Gaudí designed a small pavilion in the shape of a
Hindu
turban ,
covered in mosaics and decorated with an abundance of small bells which
jingled constantly. It was subsequently moved into the Güell Pavilions.
In 1882 he designed a Benedictine monastery and a church dedicated to
the Holy Spirit in Villaricos (Cuevas de Vera, Almeria) for his former
teacher, Joan Martorell. It was of neo-Gothic design, similar to the
Convent of the Salesians that Gaudí also planned with Martorell.
Ultimately it was not carried out, and the project plans were destroyed
in the looting of the Sagrada Família in 1936.
The same year he was tasked with constructing a
hunting lodge
and
wine cellars
at a country residence known as La Cuadra, in Garraf (Sitges), property
of baron Eusebi Güell. Ultimately the wine cellars, but not the lodge,
were built some years later. With Martorell he also collaborated on
three other projects: the church of the Jesuit School in Carrer Caspe;
the Convent of the Salesians in Passeig de Sant Joan, a neo-Gothic
project with an altar in the centre of the crossing; and the facade
project for Barcelona cathedral, for the competition convened by the
cathedral chapter in 1882, ultimately won by Josep Oriol Mestres and
August Font i Carreras.
Gaudí’s collaboration with Martorell was a determining factor in
Gaudí’s recommendation for the Sagrada Família. The church was the idea
of Josep Maria Bocabella, founder of the Devotees of Saint Joseph
Association, which acquired a complete block of Barcelona’s
Eixample
district.
The project was originally entrusted to Francisco de Paula del Villar y
Lozano, who planned the construction of a neo-Gothic church, on which
work began in 1882. However, the following year Villar resigned due to
disagreements with the construction board, and the task went to Gaudí,
who completely redesigned the project, apart from the part of the crypt
that had already been built.
Gaudí devoted the rest of his life to the construction of the church,
which was to be the synthesis of all of his architectural discoveries.
Orientalist period
During these years Gaudí completed a series of works with a
distinctly oriental flavour, inspired by the art of the Middle and Far
East (India, Persia, Japan), as well as Islamic-Hispanic art, mainly
Mudejar
and
Nazari .
Gaudí used ceramic tile decoration abundantly, as well as Moorish
arches, columns of exposed brick and pinnacles in the shape of pavilions
or domes.
Between 1883 and 1888 he constructed the
Casa Vicens ,
commissioned by stockbroker Manuel Vicens i Montaner. It was
constructed with four floors, with facades on three sides and an
extensive garden, including a monumental brick fountain. The house was
surrounded by a wall with iron gates, decorated with
palmetto
leaves, work of Llorenç Matamala. The walls of the house are of stone
alternated with lines of tile, which imitate yellow flowers typical of
this area; the house is topped with chimneys and turrets. In the
interior the polychrome wooden roof beams stand out, adorned with floral
themes of
papier maché ;
the walls are decorated with vegetable motifs, as well as paintings by
Josep Torrescasana; finally, the floor consists of Roman-style mosaics
of "opus tesselatum". One of the most original rooms is the smoking
room, notable the ceiling, decorated with Moorish honeycomb-work,
reminiscent of the
Generalife
in the
Alhambra
in
Granada .
Orientalist works
Casa Vicens (1883–88)
El Capricho (1883–85)
Güell Pavilions (1884–87)
Palau Güell (1886–88)
Compañía Trasatlántica (1888)
In the same year, 1883, Gaudí designed the Santísimo Sacramento
chapel for the parish church of San Félix de Alella, as well as some
topographical plans for the Can Rosell de la Llena country residence in
Gelida. He also received a commission to build a small annex to the
Palacio de Sobrellano, for the Baron of Comillas, in the
Cantabrian
town of the same name. Known as El Capricho, it was commissioned by
Máximo Díaz de Quijano and constructed between 1883 and 1885. Cristòfor
Cascante i Colom, Gaudí’s fellow student, directed the construction. In
an oriental style, it has an elongated shape, on three levels and a
cylindrical tower in the shape of a Persian minaret, faced completely in
ceramics. The entrance is set behind four columns supporting depressed
arches, with capitals decorated with birds and leaves, similar to those
that can be seen at the Casa Vicens. Notable are the main lounge, with
its large
sash window , and the smoking room with a ceiling consisting of a false Arab-style stucco vault.
Gaudí carried out a second commission from Eusebi Güell between 1884
and 1887, the Güell Pavilions in Pedralbes, now on the outskirts of
Barcelona. Güell had a country residence in Les Corts de Sarrià,
consisting of two adjacent properties known as Can Feliu and Can Cuyàs
de la Riera. The architect Joan Martorell had built a Caribbean-style
mansion, which was demolished in 1919 to make way for the
Royal Palace of Pedralbes .
Gaudí undertook to refurbish the house and construct a wall and
porter's lodge. He completed the stone wall with several entrances, the
main entrance with an iron gate in the shape of a dragon, with
symbology
allusive to the myths of
Hercules
and the
Garden of the Hesperides .
The buildings consist of a stable, covered
longeing
ring and porter's lodge: the stable has a rectangular base and catenary
arches; the longeing ring has a square base with a hyperboloid dome;
the porter's lodge consists of three small buildings, the central one
being polygonal with a hyperbolic dome, and the other two smaller and
cubic. All three are topped by ventilators in the shape of chimneys
faced with ceramics. The walls are of exposed brick in various shades of
reds and yellows; in certain sections prefabricated cement blocks are
also used. The Pavilions are now the headquarters of the Real Cátedra
Gaudí, of the Polytechnic University of Catalonia.
In 1885 Gaudí accepted a commission from Josep Maria Bocabella, promotor of the Sagrada Família, for an altar
in the oratory of the Bocabella family, who had obtained permission
from the Pope to have an altar in their home. The altar is made of
varnished
mahogany , with a slab of
white marble
in the centre for relics.
It is decorated with plants and religious motifs, such as the Greek
letters alpha and omega, symbol of the beginning and end, gospel phrases
and images of
Saint Francis of Paola ,
Saint Teresa of Avila
and the
Holy Family
and closed with a curtain of crimson embroidery. It was made by the
cabinet maker Frederic Labòria, who also collaborated with Gaudí on the
Sagrada Família.
Shortly after, Gaudí received an important new commission from Güell:
the construction of his family house, in the Carrer Nou de la Rambla in
Barcelona. The
Palau Güell
(1886–1888) continues the tradition of large Catalan urban mansions
such as those in Carrer Montcada. Gaudí designed a monumental entrance
with a magnificent parabolic arch above iron gates, decorated with the
Catalan coat of arms and a helmet with a winged dragon, the work of Joan
Oñós. A notable feature is the triple-height entrance hall; it is the
core of the building, surrounded by the main rooms of the palace, and it
is remarkable for its double dome, parabolic within and conical on the
outside, a solution typical of Byzantine art. For the gallery on the
street facade Gaudí used an original system of catenary arches and
columns with hyperbolic capitals, a style he used only here.
He designed the interior of the palace with a sumptuous Mudejar-style
decoration, where the wood and iron coffered ceilings stand out. The
chimneys on the roof are a remarkable feature, faced in vividly-coloured
ceramic tiles, as is the tall spire in the form of a
lantern tower , which is the external termination of the dome within, and is also faced with ceramic tiles and topped with an iron
weather vane .
On the occasion of the World Expo held in Barcelona in 1888, Gaudí
constructed the pavilion for the Compañía Trasatlántica, property of the
Marquis of Comillas, in the Maritime Section of the event. He created
it in a Granadinian Nazari style, with horseshoe arches and stucco
decoration; the building survived until the Passeig Marítim was opened
up in 1960. In the wake of the event he received a commission from
Barcelona Council to restore the Saló de Cent and the grand stairs in
Barcelona City Hall, as well as a chair for the queen Maria Cristina;
only the chair was made, and Mayor Francesc Rius i Taulet presented it
to the Queen.
Neo-Gothic period
During this period Gaudí was inspired above all by mediaeval
Gothic art , but wanted to improve on its structural solutions.
Neo-gothic
was one of the most successful historicist styles at that time, above
all as a result of the theoretical studies of Viollet-le-Duc.
Gaudí studied examples in Catalonia, the Balearic Islands and
Roussillon in depth, as well as Leonese and Castillian buildings during
his stays in León and Burgos, and became convinced that it was an
imperfect style, leaving major structural issues only partly resolved.
In his works he eliminated the need of buttresses through the use of
ruled surfaces , and abolished crenellations and excessive openwork.
Neo-gothic works
Colegio de las Teresianas
Bishop's palace
Casa Botines
Bodegas Güell
Torre Bellesguard
The first example was the Colegio de las Teresianas (1888–1889), in
Barcelona’s Carrer Ganduxer, commissioned by San Enrique de Ossó. Gaudí
fulfilled the wish of the order that the building should be austere, in
keeping with their vows of poverty. He designed a simple building, using
bricks for the exterior and some brick elements for the interior.
Wrought ironwork, one of Gaudí's favourite materials, appeared on the
facades. The building is crowned by a row of
merlons
which suggest a castle, a possible reference to
Saint Teresa ’s
Interior Castle .
The corners have brick pinnacles topped by helicoidal columns and
culminate in a four-armed cross, typical of Gaudí’s works, and with
ceramic shields bearing various symbols of the order. The interior
includes a corridor which is famous for the series of catenary arches
that it contains. These elegant arches are decorative and support the
ceiling and the floor above. For Gaudí, the parabolic arch was an ideal
constructional element, capable of supporting great loads with slender
masonry.
Gaudí received his next commission from a clergyman who had been a
boyhood friend in his native Reus. When he was appointed bishop of
Astorga, Joan Baptista Grau i Vallespinós asked Gaudí to design a new
episcopal palace for the city, as the previous building had caught fire.
Constructed between 1889 and 1915, in a neo-Gothic style with four
cylindrical towers, it was surrounded by a
moat .
The stone with which it was built (grey granite from the El Bierzo
area) is in harmony with its surroundings, particularly with the
cathedral in its immediate vicinity, as well as with the natural
landscape, which in late 19th-century Astorga was more visible than
today. The porch has three large flared arches, built of
ashlar
and separated by sloping
buttresses .
The structure is supported by columns with decorated capitals and by
ribbed vaults on pointed arches, and topped with Mudejar-style merlons.
Gaudí resigned from the project in 1893, at the death of Bishop Grau,
due to disagreements with the
Chapter , and it was finished in 1915 by Ricardo García Guereta. It currently houses a museum about the
Way of Saint James , which passes through Astorga
Another of Gaudí’s projects outside of Catalonia was the
Casa de los Botines ,
in León (1891–1894), commissioned by Simón Fernández Fernández and
Mariano Andrés Luna, textile merchants from Leon, who were recommended
Gaudí by Eusebi Güell, with whom they did business. Gaudí’s project was
an impressive neo-Gothic style building, which bears his unmistakable
modernista
imprint. The building was used to accommodate offices and textile shops
on the lower floors, as well as apartments on the upper floors. It was
constructed with walls of solid
limestone .
The building is flanked by four cylindrical turrets surmounted by slate
spires , and surrounded by an
area
with an iron grille. The Gothic facade style, with its cusped arches, has a clock and a sculpture of
Saint George and the Dragon , the work of Llorenç Matamala.
As of 2010 it was the headquarters of the Caja España.
In 1892 Gaudí was commissioned by Claudio López Bru, second Marquis
of Comillas, with the Franciscana Catholic Missions for the city of
Tangier ,
in Morocco (at the time a Spanish colony). The project included a
church, hospital and school, and Gaudí conceived a quadrilobulate
ground-plan floor structure, with catenary arches, parabolic towers, and
hyperboloid windows. Gaudí deeply regretted the project's eventual
demise, always keeping his design with him. In spite of this, the
project influenced the works of the Sagrada Família, in particular the
design of the towers, with their paraboloid shape like those of the
Missions.
Franciscan Mission of Tangiers
In 1895 he designed a funerary chapel for the Güell family at the abbey of
Montserrat , but little is known about this work, which was never built. That year, construction finally began on the
Bodegas Güell ,
the 1882 project for a hunting lodge and some wineries at La Cuadra de
Garraf (Sitges), property of Eusebi Güell. Constructed between 1895 and
1897 under the direction of Francesc Berenguer, Gaudí’s aide, the
wineries have a triangular end facade, a very steep stone roof, a group
of chimneys and two bridges that join them to an older building. It has
three floors: the bottom one for a garage, an apartment and a chapel
with catenary arches, with the altar in the centre. It was completed
with a porter’s lodge, notable for the iron gate in the shape of a
fishing net.
In the township of Sant Gervasi de Cassoles (now a district of
Barcelona), the widow of Jaume Figueras commissioned Gaudí to renovate
the Torre Bellesguard (1900–1909), former summer palace of
King Martin I the Humane .
Gaudí designed it in a neo-Gothic style, respecting the former building
as much as possible, and tried as always to integrate the architecture
into the natural surroundings. This influenced his choice of local slate
for the construction. The building's ground-plan measures 15 x 15
meters, with the corners oriented to the four cardinal points.
Constructed in stone and brick, it is taller than it is wide, with a
spire topped with the four-armed cross, the Catalan flag and the royal
crown. The house has a basement, ground floor, first floor and an attic,
with a gable roof.
Naturalist period
During this period Gaudí perfected his personal style, inspired by
the organic shapes of nature, putting into practise a whole series of
new structural solutions originating from his deep analysis of
ruled geometry .
To this he added a great creative freedom and an imaginative ornamental
style. His works acquired a great structural richness, with shapes and
volumes devoid of rational rigidity or any classic premise.
1898–1900
Commissioned by the company Hijos de Pedro Mártir Calvet, Gaudí built the
Casa Calvet
(1898–1899), in Barcelona’s Carrer Casp. The facade is built of
Montjuïc stone, adorned with wrought iron balconies and topped with two
pediments with wrought iron crosses. Another notable feature of the
facade is the gallery on the main floor, decorated with plant and
mythological motifs. For this project Gaudí used a Baroque style,
visible in the use of Solomonic columns, decoration with floral themes
and the design of the terraced roof . In 1900 he won the award for the
best building of the year from Barcelona City Council.
A virtually unknown work by Gaudí is the Casa Clapés (1899–1900), at
125 Carrer Escorial, commissioned by the painter Aleix Clapés, who
collaborated on occasion with Gaudí, such as in decorating the
Palau Güell
and the
Casa Milà .
It has a ground floor and three apartments, with stuccoed walls and
cast-iron balconies. Due to its lack of decoration or original
structural solutions its authorship was unknown until 1976, when the
architect’s signed plans by Gaudí were discovered.
In 1900 he renovated the house of Dr. Pere Santaló, at 32 Carrer Nou de
la Rambla, a work of equally low importance. Santaló was a friend of
Gaudí's, whom he accompanied during his stay in Puigcerdà in 1911.It was
he who recommended him to do manual work for his rheumatism.
Naturalist works (1898–1900)
Casa Calvert
Finca Miralles
Park Güell
Rosary of Montserrat
Also in 1900 he designed two banners: for the Orfeó Feliuà (of Sant
Feliu de Codines), made of brass, leather, cork and silk, with
ornamental motifs based on the martyrdom of San Félix (a millstone),
music (a staff and clef) and the inscription “Orfeó Feliuà”; and Our
Lady of Mercy of Reus, for the pilgrimage of the Reus residents of
Barcelona, with an image of Isabel Besora, the shepherdess to whom the
Virgin appeared in 1592, work of Aleix Clapés and, on the back, a rose
and the Catalan flag. In the same year, for the shrine of Our Lady of
Mercy in Reus, Gaudí outlined a project for the renovation of the
church’s main facade, which ultimately was not undertaken, as the board
considered it too expensive. Gaudí took this rejection quite badly,
leaving some bitterness towards Reus, possibly the source of his
subsequent claim that Riudoms was his place of birth.
Between 1900 and 1902 Gaudí worked on the Casa Miralles, commissioned
by the industrialist Hermenegild Miralles i Anglès; Gaudí designed only
the wall near the gateway, of undulating masonry, with an iron gate
topped with the four-armed cross. Subsequently, the house for Señor
Miralles was designed by Domènec Sugrañes, associate architect of Gaudí.
Gaudí’s main new project at the beginning of the 20th century was the
Park Güell
(1900–1914), commissioned by Eusebi Güell. It was intended to be a residential estate in the style of an English
garden city .
The project was unsuccessful: of the 60 plots into which the site was
divided only one was sold. Despite this, the park entrances and service
areas were built, displaying Gaudí’s genius and putting into practise
many of his innovative structural solutions. The Park Güell is situated
in Barcelona’s Càrmel district, a rugged area, with steep slopes that
Gaudí negotiated with a system of viaducts integrated into the terrain.
The main entrance to the park has a building on each side, intended as a
porter’s lodge and an office, and the site is surrounded by a stone and
glazed-ceramic wall. These entrance buildings are an example of Gaudí
at the height of his powers, with Catalan vaults that form a parabolic
hyperboloid.
After passing through the gate, steps lead to higher levels, decorated
with sculpted fountains, notably the dragon fountain, which has become a
symbol of the park and one of Gaudí’s most recognised emblems. These
steps lead to the Hypostyle Hall, which was to have been the residents’
market, constructed with large
Doric
columns. Above this chamber is a large plaza in the form of a Greek
theatre, with the famous undulating bench covered in broken ceramics (" trencadís "), the work of
Josep Maria Jujol .
The park’s show home, the work of Francesc Berenguer, was Gaudí’s residence from 1906 to 1926, and currently houses the
Casa-Museu Gaudí .
During this period Gaudí contributed to a group project, the Rosary
of Montserrat (1900–1916). Located on the way to the Holy Cave of
Montserrat, it was a series of groups of sculptures that evoked the
mysteries of the Virgin, who tells the rosary. This project involved the
best architects and sculptors of the era, and is a curious example of
Catalan Modernism. Gaudí designed the First Mystery of Glory, which
represents the Holy Sepulcher. The series include a statue of Christ
Risen, the work of
Josep Llimona ,
and the Three Marys sculpted by Dionís Renart. Another monumental
project designed by Gaudí for Montserrat was never carried out: it would
have included crowning the summit of El Cavall Bernat (one of the
mountain peaks) with a viewpoint in the shape of a royal crown,
incorporating a 20 metres (66 ft) high Catalan coat of arms into the
wall.
1901–1903
In 1901 Gaudí decorated the house of Isabel Güell López, Marchioness
of Castelldosrius, and daughter of Eusebi Güell. Situated at 19 Carrer
Junta de Comerç, the house had been built in 1885 and renovated between
1901 and 1904; it was destroyed by a bomb during the
Civil War .
The following year Gaudí took part in the decoration of the Bar Torino,
property of Flaminio Mezzalana, located at 18 Passeig de Gràcia; Gaudí
designed the ornamentation of el Salón Árabe of that establishment, made
with varnished Arabian-style cardboard tiles (which no longer exist).
A project of great interest to Gaudí was the restoration of the
Cathedral of Santa Maria in Palma de Mallorca (1903–1914), commissioned
by the city’s bishop, Pere Campins i Barceló. Gaudí planned a series of
works including removing the baroque altarpiece, revealing the bishop's
throne, moving the choir-stalls from the centre of the nave and placing
them in the presbytery, clearing the way through chapel of the Holy
Trinity, placing new pulpits, fitting the cathedral with electrical
lighting, uncovering the Gothic windows of the Royal Chapel and filling
them with stained glass, placing a large canopy above the main altar and
completing the decoration with paintings. This was coordinated by Joan
Rubió i Bellver, Gaudí’s assistant. Josep Maria Jujol and the painters
Joaquín Torres García, Iu Pascual and Jaume Llongueras were also
involved. Gaudí abandoned the project in 1914 due to disagreements with
the Cathedral chapter.
1904
Casa Batlló
One of Gaudí’s largest and most striking works is the
Casa Batlló
(1904–1906). Commissioned by Josep Batlló i Casanovas to renovate an existing building erected in 1875 by Emili Sala Cortés,
Gaudí focused on the facade, the main floor, the patio and the roof,
and built a fifth floor for the staff. For this project he was assisted
by his aides Domènec Sugrañes, Joan Rubió and Josep Canaleta. The facade
is of Montjuïc sandstone cut to create warped
ruled surfaces ;
the columns are bone-shaped with vegetable decoration. Gaudí kept the
rectangular shape of the old building’s balconies—with iron railings in
the shape of masks—giving the rest of the facade an ascending undulating
form. He also faced the facade with ceramic fragments of various
colours ("trencadís"), which Gaudí obtained from the waste material of
the Pelegrí glass works. The interior courtyard is roofed by a skylight
supported by an iron structure in the shape of a double T, which rests
on a series of catenary aches. The helicoidal chimneys are a notable
feature of the roof, topped with conical caps, covered in clear glass in
the centre and ceramics at the top, and surmounted by clear glass balls
filled with sand of different colours. The facade culminates in
catenary vaults covered with two layers of brick and faced with glazed
ceramic tiles in the form of scales (in shades of yellow, green and
blue), which resemble a dragon’s back; on the left side is a cylindrical
turret with anagrams of Jesus, Mary and Joseph, and with Gaudí’s
four-armed cross.
In 1904, commissioned by the painter Lluís Graner i Arrufí, he designed the decoration of the Sala Mercè, in the
Rambla dels Estudis ,
one of the first cinemas in Barcelona; the theatre imitated a cave,
inspired by the Coves del del Drac (Dragon's Caves) in Mallorca. Also
for Graner he designed a detached house in the Bonanova district of
Barcelona, of which only the foundations and the main gate were built,
with three openings: for people, vehicles and birds; the building would
have had a structure similar to the Casa Batlló or the porter's lodge of
the Park Güell.
El chalet de Catllaràs (1905), in
La Pobla de Lillet
The same year he built a workshop, the Taller Badia, for Josep and
Lluís Badia Miarnau, blacksmiths who worked for Gaudí on several of his
works, such as the Batlló and Milà houses, the Park Güell and and the
Sagrada Família. Located at 278 Carrer Nàpols, it was a simple stone
building. Around that time he also designed hexagonal
hydraulic floor tiles
for the Casa Batlló, they were eventually used instead for the Casa
Milà; they were a green colour and were decorated with seaweed, shells
and starfish. These tiles were subsequently chosen to pave Barcelona’s
Passeig de Gràcia.
Also in 1904 he built the Chalet de Catllaràs, in La Pobla de Lillet,
for the Asland cement factory, owned by Eusebi Güell. It has a simple
structure though very original, in the shape of a pointed arch, with two
semi-circular flights of stairs leading to the top two floors. This
building fell into ruin when the cement works closed, and when it was
eventually restored its appearance was radically altered, the ingenious
original staircase being replaced with a simpler metal one. In the same
area he created the Can Artigas Gardens between 1905 and 1907, in an
area called Font de la Magnesia, commissioned by the textile merchant
Joan Artigas i Alart; men who had worked the Park Güell were also
involved on this project, similar to the famous park in Barcelona.
1906
Artigas Gardens , in
La Pobla de Lillet
In 1906 he designed a bridge over the Torrent de Pomeret, between
Sarrià and Sant Gervasi. This river flowed directly between two of
Gaudí’s works, Bellesguard and the Chalet Graner, and so he was asked to
bridge the divide. Gaudí designed an interesting structure composed of
juxtaposed triangles that would support the bridge’s framework,
following the style of the viaducts that he made for the Park Güell. It
would have been built with cement, and would have had a length of 154
metres (505 ft) and a height of 15 metres (49 ft); the balustrade would
have been covered with glazed tiles, with an inscription dedicated to
Santa Eulàlia. The project was not approved by the Town Council of
Sarrià.
The same year Gaudí apparently took part in the construction of the
Torre Damià Mateu, in Llinars del Vallès, in collaboration with his
disciple Francesc Berenguer, though the project’s authorship is not
clear or to what extent they each contributed to it. The style of the
building evokes Gaudí’s early work, such as the Casa Vicens or the Güell
Pavilions; it had an entrance gate in the shape of a fishing net,
currently installed in the Park Güell. The building was demolished in
1939.
Also in 1906 he designed a new banner, this time for the Guild of
Metalworkers and Blacksmiths for the Corpus Christi procession of 1910,
in Barcelona Cathedral. It was dark green in colour, with Barcelona’s
coat of arms in the upper left corner, and an image of Saint Eligius,
patron of the guild, with typical tools of the trade. The banner was
burned in July 1936.
Casa Milà
Another of Gaudí’s major projects and one of his most admired works is the
Casa Milà ,
better known as La Pedrera (1906–1910), commissioned by Pere Milà i
Camps. Gaudí designed the house around two large, curved courtyards,
with a structure of stone, brick and cast-iron columns and steel beams.
The facade is built of limestone from Vilafranca del Penedès, apart from
the upper level, which is covered in white tiles, evoking a snowy
mountain. It has a total of five floors, plus a loft made entirely of
catenary arches, as well as two large interior courtyards, one circular
and one oval. Notable features are the staircases to the roof, topped
with the four-armed cross, and the chimneys, covered in ceramics and
with shapes that suggest mediaeval helmets. The interior decoration was
carried out by Josep Maria Jujol and the painters Iu Pascual, Xavier
Nogués and Aleix Clapés. The facade was to have been completed with a
stone, metal and glass sculpture with Our lady of the Rosary accompanied
by the archangels Michael and Gabriel, 4m in height. A sketch was made
by the sculptor Carles Mani, but due to the events of the Tragic Week in
1909 the project was abandoned.
1907–8
Sketch of the
Hotel Attraction , by Joan Matamala
In 1907, to mark the seventh centenary of the birth of
King James I ,
Gaudí designed a monument in his memory. It would have been situated in
the Plaça del Rei, and would have also meant the renovation of the
adjacent buildings: new roof for the cathedral, as well as the
completion of its towers and cupola; placement of three vases above the
buttresses of the Chapel of Santa Àgada, dedicated to the Litany of the
Blessed Virgin Mary, as well as the figure of an angel on top of the
chapel's tower; finally, the opening of a large square next to the walls
(now the Plaça Ramon Berenguer el Grand). The project was not executed
because the city council disliked it.
In 1908 Gaudí devised a project for a skyscraper hotel in New York, the
Hotel Attraction ,
commissioned by two American entrepreneurs whose names are unknown. It
would have been 360 metres (1,180 ft) high (taller than the
Empire State Building ),
with a taller parabolic central section, topped with a star, and
flanked by four volumes containing museums, art galleries and concert
halls, with shapes similar to the Casa Milà. Inside it would have had
five large rooms, one dedicated to every continent.
Original design of the church for the Colònia Güell
The final project for his great patron Eusebi Güell was the church
for the Colònia Güell, an industrial village in Santa Coloma de
Cervelló, of which only the crypt was constructed (known today as Crypt
of the Colònia Güell) (1908–1918). The project began in 1890, and the
factory, service buildings and housing for the workers were constructed.
What would have been the colony’s church was designed by Gaudí in 1898,
though the first stone was not laid until 4 October 1908. Unfortunately
only the crypt was built, as Güell’s sons abandoned the project after
his death in 1918. Gaudí designed an oval church with five aisles, one
central aisle and two at either side. He conceived it as fully
integrated into nature. A porch of hyperbolic paraboloid vaults precedes
the crypt, the first time that Gaudí used this structure and notably
the first use of paraboloid vaults in the history of architecture.
In the crypt the large hyperboloid stained glass windows stand out,
with the shapes of flower petals and butterfly wings. Inside, circular
brick pillars alternate with slanted basalt columns from Castellfollit
de la Roca.
Final period
Sagrada Familia schools
During the last years of his career, dedicated almost exclusively to la
Sagrada Família ,
Gaudí reached the culmination of this naturalistic style, creating a
synthesis of all of the solutions and styles he had tried until then.
Gaudí achieved perfect harmony between structural and ornamental
elements, between plastic and aesthetic, between function and form,
between container and content, achieving the integration of all arts in
one structured, logical work.
The first example of his final stage can be seen in a simple but very
ingenious building, the Sagrada Família schools, a small school for the
workers’ children. Built in 1909, it has a rectangular ground plan of
10 by 20 metres (33 × 66 ft), and contained three classrooms, a
vestibule and a chapel. It was built of exposed brick, in three
overlapping layers, following the traditional Catalan method. The walls
and roof have an undulating shape, giving the structure a sense of
lightness but also strength. The Sagrada Família schools have set an
example of constructive genius and have served as a source of
inspiration for many architects, such is their simplicity, strength,
originality, functionality and geometric excellence.
In May 1910 Gaudí paid a short visit to Vic, where he was tasked to
design the lampposts for the city’s Plaça Major, in commemoration of the
first centenary of the birth of
Jaume Balmes .
They were obelisk-shaped lamps, with basalt rock bases from
Castellfollit de la Roca and wrought iron arms, topped with the
four-armed cross; they were decorated with vegetable themes and included
the birth and death dates of Balmes. They were demolished in 1924 due
to poor maintenance.
The same year, on the occasion of Eusebi Güell's obtaining the title
of count, Gaudí designed a coat of arms for his patron. He devised a
shield with the lower part in a catenary shape typical of Gaudí. He
divided it into two parts: the lantern of Palau Güell features a dove
and a gear-wheel on the right in allusion to the Colònia Güell in Santa
Coloma de Cervelló ( coloma
is Catalan for dove), with the phrase
ahir pastor
(yesterday Shepherd). On the left is an owl perched on a half-moon—symbol of prudence and wisdom—with the words
avuy senyor
(today Lord). The shield is surmounted by a helmet with the count's coronet and the dove symbol of the Holy Spirit.
In 1912 he built two
pulpits
for the church of Santa Maria in
Blanes : the pulpit on the
Gospel side
had a hexagonal base, decorated with the dove of the Holy Spirit and
the names in Latin of the four evangelists and the seven Gifts of the
Holy Spirit; the pulpit of the
Epistle side
had the names of the apostles who wrote epistles (Saint Peter, Saint
Paul, Saint John the Evangelist, Saint Judas Thadeus and Saint James the
Great), with the three theological virtues and the flames of Pentecost.
These pulpits were burned in July 1936.
Sagrada Família
Temple Expiatori de la Sagrada Família
From 1915 Gaudí devoted himself almost exclusively to his
magnum opus , the Sagrada Família, a synthesis of his architectural evolution. After completion of the crypt and the apse,
still in Gothic style, the rest of the church is conceived in an
organic style, imitating natural shapes with their abundance of ruled surfaces.
He intended the interior to resemble a forest, with inclined columns
like branching trees, helicoidal in form, creating a simple but sturdy
structure. Gaudí applied all of his previous experimental findings in
this project, from works such as the Park Güell and the crypt of the
Colònia Güell, creating a church that is at once structurally perfect,
harmonious and aesthetically satisfying.
The Sagrada Família has a cruciform plan, with a five-aisled nave, a
transept of three aisles, and an apse with seven chapels. It has three
facades dedicated to the birth, passion and glory of Jesus, and when
completed it will have eighteen towers: four at each side making a total
of twelve for the apostles, four on the transept invoking the
evangelists and one on the apse dedicated to the Virgin, plus the
central tower in honour of Jesus, which will reach 170 metres (560 ft)
in height.
The church will have two sacristies
adjacent to the apse, and three large chapels: one for the Assumption
in the apse, and the Baptism and Penitence chapels at the west end;
also, it will be surrounded by a cloister designed for processions and
to isolate the building from the exterior. Gaudí used highly symbolic
content in the Sagrada Família, both in architecture and sculpture,
dedicating each part of the church to a religious theme.
During Gaudí’s life only the crypt, apse and part of the Nativity
facade were completed. Upon his death his assistant Domènec Sugrañes
took over the construction; thereafter it was directed by various
architects. Jordi Bonet i Armengol assumed responsibility in 1987 and
continued as of 2011. Artists such as Llorenç and Joan Matamala, Carles
Mani, Jaume Busquets, Joaquim Ros i Bofarull, Etsuro Sotoo and Josep
Maria Subirachs (creator of the Passion facade) have worked on the
sculptural decoration. Completion is not expected until at least 2026.
Minor, late projects
During the last years of his life, apart from his devotion to the
Sagrada Família, Gaudí participated only in minor projects which were
not completed: in 1916, on the death of his friend bishop Josep Torras i
Bages, he designed a monument in his honour, which he wanted to place
in front of the Passion facade of the Sagrada Família. He made a sketch
of the project, which ultimately was not carried out, and made a plaster
bust of the bishop, the work of Joan Matamala under the instruction of
Gaudí. It was put in the Sagrada Família, where it would have formed
part of the church, but it was destroyed in 1936.
Another commemorative monument project, also not carried out, was
dedicated to Enric Prat de la Riba, which would have been situated in
Castellterçol, birthplace of this Catalan politician. The project dates
from 1918, and would have consisted of a tall tower with two porticos
and a spire topped with an iron structure flying the Catalan flag. The
sketch of the project was done by Lluís Bonet i Garí, Gaudí’s assistant.
In 1922 Gaudí was commissioned, by the Franciscan Padre Angélico
Aranda, to construct a church dedicated to the Assumption in Rancagua
(Chile).
Gaudí apologised and said that he was occupied exclusively with the
Sagrada Família, but sent some sketches of the Assumption chapel which
he had designed for the apse of the Sagrada Família, which more or less
coincided with what Padre Aranda had asked for. Unfortunately this
project was not carried out, though there are currently plans by the
Chilean architect Christian Matzner to take up the project, which if
completed would become the first of Gaudí's works to be constructed in
the Americas.
The same year Gaudí was consulted about the construction of a monumental train station for Barcelona (the future
Estació de França ).
Gaudí suggested an iron structure in the form of a large suspended
awning, a solution quite ahead of its time; perhaps for this reason, it
put the head engineers off, and they declined Gaudí’s offer. The last
known projects by the architect are the chapel for the Colónia Calvet in
Torelló, of 1923, and a pulpit for Valencia (the exact location is
unknown), of 1924. From then on, Gaudí worked exclusively on the Sagrada
Família, until the fateful day of the accident which caused his death.
Collaborators
The enormous task which Gaudí faced, not in terms of the number of
works, but in terms of their complexity, required the collaboration of a
large number of assistants, artists, architects and craftsmen. Gaudí
always led the way, but allowed expression of the individual abilities
of all of his collaborators. A test of his expertise both in his field
and in interpersonal communication was demonstrated in bringing together
a large number of diverse professionals and creating an integrated
team.
Among his collaborators were:
Architects: Francesc Berenguer, Josep Maria Jujol, Cristòfor
Cascante i Colom, Josep Francesc Ràfols, Cèsar Martinell, Joan Bergós,
Francesc Folguera, Josep Canaleta, Joan Rubió, Domènec Sugrañes,
Francesc Quintana, Isidre Puig i Boada, Lluís Bonet i Garí.
Sculptors: Carles Mani, Joan Flotats, Llorenç Matamala, Joan Matamala, Josep Llimona.
Painters: Ricard Opisso, Aleix Clapés, Iu Pascual, Xavier Nogués, Jaume Llongueras, Joaquín Torres García.
Builders and foremen: Agustí Massip, Josep Bayó i Font, Claudi
Alsina i Bonafont, Josep Pardo i Casanova and his nephew Julià Bardier i
Pardo.
Craftsmen: Eudald Puntí (carpenter and forger), Joan Oñós (forger),
Lluís y Josep Badia i Miarnau (forger), Joan Bertran (plasterer), Joan
Munné (cabinet maker), Frederic Labòria (cabinet maker), Antoni Rigalt i
Blanch (glazier), Josep Pelegrí (glazier), Mario Maragliano (mosaic
artist), Jaume Pujol i Bausis and his son Pau Pujol i Vilà
(ceramicists).
Legacy
After his death, Gaudí's works suffered a period of neglect and were
largely unpopular among international critics, who regarded them as
baroque and excessively imaginative. In his homeland he was equally
disdained by
Noucentisme , the new movement which took the place of
Modernisme . In 1936, during the
Spanish Civil War ,
Gaudí's workshop in the Sagrada Família was ransacked and a great
number of his documents, plans and scale models were destroyed.
Gaudí’s reputation was beginning to recover by the 1950s, when his work was championed not only by
Salvador Dalí
but also by architect
Josep Lluís Sert .
In 1952, the centenary year of the architect’s birth, the Asociación de
Amigos de Gaudí (Friends of Gaudí Association) was founded with the aim
of disseminating and conserving his legacy. Four years later, a
retrospective was organised at the
Saló del Tinell
in Barcelona, and the Gaudí Chair at the
Polytechnic University of Catalonia
was created with the purpose of deepening the study of the Gaudí’s
works and participating in their conservation. These events were
followed in 1957 by Gaudí’s first international exhibition, held at the
Museum of Modern Art
in New York City. In 1976, on the 50th anniversary of his death, the
Spanish Ministry of Foreign Affairs organised an exhibition about Gaudí
and his works that toured the globe.
Between 1950 and 1960, research and writings by international critics like George R. Collins,
Nikolaus Pevsner
and Roberto Pane spread a renewed awareness of Gaudí’s work, while in
his homeland it was admired and promoted by Alexandre Cirici,
Juan Eduardo Cirlot
and
Oriol Bohigas .
Gaudí’s work has since gained widespread international appreciation,
such as in Japan where notable studies have been published by
Kenji Imai
and
Tokutoshi Torii .
International recognition of Gaudí's contributions to the field of
architecture and design culminated in the 1984 listing of Gaudí's key
works as
UNESCO World Heritage Sites .
Gaudí's style have subsequently influenced contemporary architects such as
Santiago Calatrava
and
Norman Foster .
Due to Gaudí's profoundly religious and
ascetic
lifestyle, the archbishop of Barcelona, Ricard Maria Carles proposed Gaudí’s
beatification
in 1998. His beatification was approved by the
Vatican
in 2000.
On the occasion of the 150th anniversary of Gaudí’s birth, a number of
official ceremonies, concerts, shows and conferences were held, and
several books were published. On 24 September of the same year, the
musical
Gaudí
had its premiere in the
Palau dels Esports de Barcelona . The authors of the piece were Jordi Galceran, Esteve Miralles and Albert Guinovart.
In 2008 the
Gaudí Awards
were launched in his honour, organised by the Catalan Film Academy to award the best Catalan films of the year.
Several of Gaudí's works
have been granted World Heritage status by UNESCO: in 1984
the Park Güell, the Palau Güell and the Casa Milà; and in 2005
the Nativity facade, the crypt and the apse of the Sagrada Família, the
Casa Vicens and the Casa Batlló in Barcelona, together with the crypt
of the Colònia Güell in Santa Coloma de Cervelló.
The declaration of Gaudí's works as World Heritage aims to recognise his outstanding universal value. According to the citation:
The work of Antoni Gaudí represents an exceptional and outstanding
creative contribution to the development of architecture and building
technology in the late 19th and early 20th centuries.
Gaudí’s work exhibits an important interchange of values closely
associated with the cultural and artistic currents of his time, as
represented in el Modernisme [sic] of Catalonia. It anticipated and
influenced many of the forms and techniques that were relevant to the
development of modern construction in the 20th century.
Gaudí’s work represents a series of outstanding examples of the
building typology in the architecture of the early 20th century,
residential as well as public, to the development of which he made a
significant and creative contribution.
And this is all about Antoni Gaudi.
Photo, exterior
Photo, exterior
Photo, interior view of physical model
Exterior photo from elevated position, showing interior side of towers
East facade
Lower east facade
Nativity facade from east
Detail, Nativity facade
Interior side of east facade, from west
Northern portion of interior east facade, from west
Upper view northeast corner
Interior view of north walls
Upper west facade
Lower west facade (entrance)
Passion portico, west entrance
East towers from east
Interior and up of an eastern spire
Wall from west
Photo
Photo
Photo
Photo
Photo
Photo
Photo
Photo
Photo
Photo
Photo
Photo
Photo
Photo
Photo
Публикувано от
Nikifor Vladimirov
в
9:02
0
коментара
Изпращане по имейл Публикувайте в блога си! Споделяне в Twitter Споделяне във Facebook Споделяне в Pinterest
По-нови публикации
По-стари публикации
Начална страница
Абонамент за:
Публикации (Atom)
Всичко за мен
Nikifor Vladimirov
Преглед на целия ми профил
Архив на блога
▼
2012
(34)
▼
Август
(1)
Sagrada Familia, Barcelona, Spain
►
Юли
(25)
►
Юни
(8)
Последователи
Visits
Шаблон: Travel. Предоставено от
Blogger .
Travel entertainment movies hiking skiing surfing sunbathing hotels tourism fun music cooking books diving exploring sightseeing trips mountain beach forest animals