Streets of New Orleans
Described by geographer Pierce Lewis as the inevitable city in the impossible site, New
Orleans (French: La Nouvelle-Orlans) is a major United States port and the largest city and
metropolitan area in the state of Louisiana. The city is named after Philippe II, Duc d'Orlans,
Regent of France (brother of King Louis XIV), and is well known for its distinct French architecture
as well as its cross cultural and multilingual heritage. New Orleans is also famous for its cuisine,
music (particularly as the birthplace of jazz) and its annual celebrations including Mardi Gras and
the New Orleans Jazz and Heritage Festival (commonly referred to as Jazzfest).

Esplanade Ave: The original meaning of esplanade was a large, open, level area outside
fortress or city walls to provide clear fields of fire for the fortress against incoming infantry or
artillery. Esplanade Ave eventually became a place for elegant promenade and was the center of
New Orleans Creole community with luxurious homes and a thoroughbred racetrack [Sometimes
referred to as the "New Orleans Fair Grounds", the track was initially opened as the "Union Race
Course" in 1852. The track closed in 1857 due to competition from the Metairie Course. In 1859
the track was renamed the "Creole Race Course." In 1863, the name was changed again to the
"Fair Grounds".] Refugees from the Haitian Revolution substantially bolstered New Orleans
African and Creole population in the early nineteenth century reinforcing African traditions in the
city and leading to the nations largest population of Free People of Color prior to the American
Civil War. [The Haitian Revolution (17911804) was a period of brutal conflict in the French
colony of Saint-Domingue, leading to the elimination of slavery and the establishment of Haiti as
the first republic ruled by people of African ancestry. Although hundreds of rebellions occurred in
the New World during the centuries of slavery, only the revolt on Saint-Domingue, which began in
1791, was successful in achieving permanent independence under a new nation. The Haitian
Revolution is regarded as a defining moment in the history of Africans in the New World.]
[Although the ward voting system in New Orleans is archaic and no alderman or council member
has been elected by ward since 1912, it is not uncommon for New Orleanians to identify where
th
they are from by their ward number. Esplanade Ave separates the sprawling 7 ward (to the
th
st
northeast) from the narrow 6 ward (to the southwest). The 1 ward (in the lower Garden District)
th
and the 6 ward (along Esplanade ridge) are two of New Orleans geographically smallest voting
wards which reflect the high density of Anglo-Americans and Creoles, respectively, in 1880 when
the wards were established in essentially their modern form (see
http://www.mardigrasdigest.com/travel/new_orleans_districts_and_wards.htm).]
Barracks St (Rue Quartier, Calle del Cuartel): [According to Nancy Brister (see
http://www.neworleans.com/arts/history/historic-new-orleans-with-nancy-brister/145587-a-streetby-any-other-name.html): The Spanish laid out this street in the 1790's and named it calle Duana
(Custom House Street), but it was soon renamed calle Quartel. The French-speaking citizens
translated this to rue de Quartier, because the troop's quarters or barracks faced it. When the
Americans came, they called it Garrison Street, but eventually the name Barrack came into use
and later an "s" was added to make it Barracks.]
Governor Nicholls St (Rue de l Hpital, Calle del Hospital)/Bayou Rd/Gentilly Blvd/Chef
Menteur Hwy: [According to Nancy Brister (see http://www.neworleans.com/arts/history/historicnew-orleans-with-nancy-brister/145587-a-street-by-any-other-name.html): First named rue de
l'Arsenal (the second street to be named so), its name was changed to rue de l'Hopital because
the King's Hospital faced it. It was known as Hospital Street for 180 years, until 1911, when it
was renamed to honor Francis Tillou Nicholls, twice governor of the state.] Here are some more
historical facts:
Francis Redding Tillou Nicholls (August 20, 1834 - January 4, 1912) was an American
attorney, politician, judge, and a brigadier general in the Confederate States Army during
the American Civil War. He served two terms as the 28th Governor of Louisiana, first
from 1876 to 1880 and then from 1888 to 1892.

Modern-day Grand Route St. John and Bayou Road formed the overland ridge that
Indians and European explorers used to portage from Bayou St. John to the Mississippi
River. [Bayou St. John was originally called Bayouk Choupic by the Tangipahoa Indians
and Bayou St. Jean by early French settlers.] The Old Spanish Custom House, built in
1784 at the corner of Moss and Grand Route St. John, is the oldest structure still
standing in the Faubourg St. John neighborhood.
The first part of Gentilly to be developed was along the Gentilly Ridge, a long stretch of
high ground along the former banks of Bayou Gentilly (aka Bayou Sauvage).
The literal meaning of "Chef Menteur" is "Chief Liar" in the French language and probably
derives from the Choctaw phrase "oulabe mingo." According to one account, it was the
name that the indigenous tribe of Choctaw Indians gave to the colonial French governor
(Louis Billouart de Kerlerec, governor from 1753-1763) after the Frenchman had reneged
on a treaty. Another account claims that the Choctaw had originally assigned the name
to the Mississippi River, due to the many twists and turns in the Mississippi River Delta
region as it wound its way to the sea, splitting into bayous and swampland before the
levees were built to regulate its flow, made its path untrustworthy despite its might.
Ursuline Ave (Rue des Ursulines, Calle del Arsenal de las Ursulinas): The Ursulines, or
Sisters of Ursula, were the first of many orders of religious women who came to New Orleans and
founded schools, orphanages and asylums and ministered to the needs of the poor. The sisters
arrived in the mudhole that was New Orleans in 1727 and provided the first decent medical care
and later founded the first local school and orphanage for girls. Based on experimentation with
herbs grown in the convents garden, one of the nuns reputedly became the first pharmacist in
the United States. The Old Ursuline Convent, built in 1752, survived the disastrous 18th-century
fires that destroyed the rest of the French Quarter and is the only remaining building from the
French colonial period in the United States. [1788 was a year of great trauma for the city of New
Orleans as the river overflowed, a great fire on March 21 destroyed 856 buildings and 80% of the
city, and a serious epidemic broke out amongst the populace (perhaps measles (?) since
Philadelphia and New York City were struck with major measles outbreaks that same year.]
[According to Nancy Brister (see http://www.neworleans.com/arts/history/historic-new-orleanswith-nancy-brister/145587-a-street-by-any-other-name.html): On Adrien de Pauger's original plan,
this street was labeled rue Saint-Adrien, in honor of his own patron saint. It was changed to rue
de l'Arsenal, then rue Saint-Ursule and, finally, rue des Ursulines, named for the order of nuns
whose chapel faced this street.]
St. Philip St (Rue St. Philippe, Calle D San Felipe): Philip was one of the Twelve Apostles of
Jesus. Later Christian traditions describe Philip as the apostle who preached in Greece, Syria,
and Phrygia. In the Roman Catholic Church, the feast day of Saint Philip, along with that of
James the Just, was traditionally observed on May 1 but, in 1969, was moved to May 3. St. Philip
the Apostle is the patron saint for hatters, Luxembourg, Uruguay and pastry chefs. [St. Philip Neri
(1515-1595) was a native of Italy who served as a priest from 1551 to 1595. His unfailing good
humor resulted in his naming as the patron saint of practical jokers and the patron saint of joy.
th
His feast day is May 26, the date of his death.] [St. Philip St separates the 6 ward (to the
th
northeast) from the 5 ward (to the southwest). It also separates a finger of District C (to the
northeast) from a finger of District A (to the southwest) in the area stretching from Bayou St. John
to Claiborne Ave.]
Dumaine St (Rue Dumaine, Calle del Maine): [According to Nancy Brister (see
http://www.neworleans.com/arts/history/historic-new-orleans-with-nancy-brister/145587-a-streetby-any-other-name.html): This street was named for duc du Maine, an illegitimate son of King
Louis XIV. Toward the end of the Spanish rule, rue du Maine was renamed calle de los
Almacenes (Magazine Street). When the French returned, it reverted to its original name of rue
du Maine and eventually was Americanized to Dumaine.]

St. Ann St (Rue Ste. Anne, Calle D Santa Ana): Saint Anne (also Ann or Anna, from Hebrew
Hannah or Channah, meaning "favor" or "grace."), of David's house and line, was the mother of
the Virgin Mary and grandmother of Jesus Christ according to Christian and Islamic tradition.
Anne is the patron saint of Christian mothers and of women in labor, and her feast day is July 26
of the Western calendar.
Pere Antoine Alley (l Alle du Pre Antoine): Friar Antonio de Sedella (1748-1829), whose
family name was Mareno, came to New Orleans from Spain around 1774 when New Orleans was
part of the Spanish-controlled Province of Luisiana. Over the course of a few years, Father
Sedella became the beloved Pre Antoine (which translates to Father Antoine), the pastor of the
(then) St. Louis Church. He baptized Marie Laveau, performed her wedding ceremony, and
together with her did much for the imprisoned, as well as the slave population, in New Orleans.
They worked tirelessly to free women of color and their children. The church burned in the great
fire of 1788, and a new church was completed in 1794, designated this time as a cathedral. Pre
Antoine was pastor until his death in 1829 and was particularly loved among the poor.
Orleans St/Ave (Rue D Orlans, Calle D Orleans): Orlanais is a former province of France,
around the cities of Orlans, Chartres, and Blois. The name comes from Orlans, its main city
and traditional capitol, which is approximately 81 miles southwest of Paris.
Pirates Alley (l Alle des Pirates): This one-block narrow alleyway, known as Orleans Alley
until the mid 1960s, runs alongside the Cabildo (the Old Spanish Governor's Mansion) and the
Old Spanish Dungeon. It also runs alongside the St. Louis Cathedral and St. Anthonys Garden
(part of the St. Louis Cathedral) where, legend has it, slaves were once sold.
St. Peter St (Rue Pierre, Calle D San Pedro): Simon Peter (circa 1 BC - 67 AD), sometimes
called Simon Cephas, was an Apostle whose Greek name Ptros and whose Aramaic name kf
translate to stone or rock. He is regarded as the first pope of the Catholic Church, and he is
known as the saint of heaven as he has the keys to heaven. He is not only the patron saint of
popes, but he is also the patron saint of bakers, bridge builders, butchers and fishermen among
other workers. The Feast of Saints Peter and Paul, or the Solemnity of Saints Peter and Paul, is
observed on June 29.
Toulouse St (Rue Toulouse, Calle D Tolosa): [According to Nancy Brister (see
http://www.neworleans.com/arts/history/historic-new-orleans-with-nancy-brister/145587-a-streetby-any-other-name.html): This street was named for duc de Toulouse, another illegitimate son of
King Louis XIV.]
Lafitte St: Jean Lafitte (ca. 1776 - ca. 1823) was a pirate and privateer in the Gulf of Mexico in
the early 19th century. He and his elder brother, Pierre, spelled their last name Laffite, but
English-language documents of the time used "Lafitte," and this is the commonly seen spelling in
the United States, including for places named for him. [The spelling of names and words has
grown more uniform in America over the years especially after Noah Webster published his first
dictionary, A Compendious Dictionary of the English Language, in 1806.] Lafitte is believed to
have been born either in France or the French colony of Saint-Domingue. By 1805, he operated
a warehouse in New Orleans to help disperse the goods smuggled by his brother Pierre Lafitte.
After the United States government passed the Embargo Act of 1807, the Lafittes moved their
operations to an island in Barataria Bay. By 1810, their new port was very successful; the Lafittes
pursued a successful smuggling operation and also started to engage in piracy. Though Lafitte
tried to warn of a British attack, the American authorities invaded Barataria in 1814 and captured
most of Lafitte's fleet. In return for a pardon, Lafitte helped General Andrew Jackson defend New
Orleans against the British in 1815. The Lafittes then became spies for the Spanish and moved
to Galveston Island where they developed the colony there. Jean Lafitte continued pirating
around Central American ports until he died trying to capture Spanish vessels in 1823.

St. Louis St (Rue St. Louis, Calle D San Luis): King Louis IX of France (1214-1270) promoted
Christianity in France and led two Crusades. He is the patron saint of barbers, builders, button
makers, construction workers, death of children, difficult marriages, embroiderers, hairstylists,
kings, masons, needle workers, sculptors, sick, soldiers and stone masons. His feast day is
August 25. [According to Nancy Brister (see http://www.neworleans.com/arts/history/historicnew-orleans-with-nancy-brister/145587-a-street-by-any-other-name.html): St. Louis was named
for the patron saint of France, New Orleans and the church diocese and, also, for King Louis IX.
You may be surprised to know that the name St. Louis was given to the mighty river that flowed
past the city, as well - "Fleuve Saint-Louis" - instead of the Native American name of
"Mississippi." (The street name remains, but, needless to say, the new river name didn't take and
the mighty "Mississippi" still flows past Nouvelle Orleans.)] [Mississippi stems from the Algonquin
language, in whose tribal domain the river started. These Indians called it miss for big and sipi
for river, so Mississippi is a bastardization of the Indian words for Big River.] [St. Louis St
th
th
th
separates the 5 ward (to the northeast) from the 4 ward (to the southwest). The 4 ward has
the distinction of spanning three modern-day voting districts (Districts A, B and C).]
Conti St (Rue Conti, Calle D Conti): Louise lisabeth de Bourbon (November 22, 1693 - May
27, 1775) was a daughter of Louis de Bourbon and his wife, Louise Franoise de Bourbon. She
was the wife of Louis Armand de Bourbon, Prince of Conti, making her the Princess of Conti by
marriage. According to Nancy Brister (see http://www.neworleans.com/arts/history/historic-neworleans-with-nancy-brister/145587-a-street-by-any-other-name.html) Conti Street was named
after the Princess of Conti.
Bienville Ave (Rue Bienville, Calle D Bienville): Jean-Baptiste Le Moyne de Bienville (February
23, 1680 - March 7, 1767) was a colonizer born in Montreal, Quebec. Known as Sieur de
Bienville [sieur is the archaic French version of sir, a title of respect that is the inflected form of
sire], he was an early, repeated governor of French Louisiana who was appointed four separate
times from 1701 to 1743. He is the co-founder of Mobile Al and considered the fathers of both
Biloxi MS and New Orleans LA. After much debate Bienville chose to settle a crescent bend in
the Mississippi River that he felt would be protected from tidal waves and hurricanes, and the site
exploited Bayou St. John and the Bayou Road portage between Lake Pontchartrain and the
Mississippi River shown to him by Indians. After moving into his new home on the site of what is
now the Custom House, Bienville named the new city "La Nouvelle-Orlans" in honor of Philippe
II, Duke of Orlans, the Prince Regent of France. New Orleans became the capital of French
Louisiana by 1723, during Bienville's 3rd term. [According to Nancy Brister (see
http://www.neworleans.com/arts/history/historic-new-orleans-with-nancy-brister/145587-a-streetby-any-other-name.html): This street was first named rue d'Anguin (Adrien de Pauger's
misspelling for the duc d'Enghien). Bienville's name had been given to the street we now call
Conti. However, Conti was changed to Bourbon, and the name of the Princess Conti transferred
to the street now bearing her name, at which time Bienville's name was given to the street now
bearing his name.]
Iberville St (Rue de la Douane, Calle D la Aduana): Douanes were a system of taxation
through custom duties in France during King Louis XIV's reign [King Louis XIV (September 5,
1638 - September 1, 1715), who was also known as The Sun King, is the namesake of
Louisiana ]. In the singular, Douane is the French and Dutch word for customs in the sense of a
border check. Pierre Le Moyne d'Iberville (July 16, 1661 - died, probably, on July 9, 1706) was a
soldier, ship captain, explorer, colonial administrator, knight of the order of Saint-Louis,
adventurer, privateer, trader, and founder of the French colony of Louisiana. The older brother of
Jean-Baptiste, Pierre is also known as Sieur d'Iberville. [According to Nancy Brister (see
http://www.neworleans.com/arts/history/historic-new-orleans-with-nancy-brister/145587-a-streetby-any-other-name.html): This street was called Neuva Dualia by the Spanish, then rue de la
Douane by the French and, when the Americans came, it was called New Custom House Street.
Finally, in 1901, it was renamed for the "father of Louisiana."]

Canal St/Blvd: Canal Street is a major thoroughfare in the city of New Orleans and is said to be
the widest roadway in America to have been classified as a street rather than an avenue or
boulevard. Forming the upriver boundary of the city's oldest neighborhood, the French Quarter
(Vieux Carr), it acted as the dividing line between the older French/Spanish Colonial-era city and
th
the newer American Sector, today's Central Business District. [Canal St separates the 4 ward
rd
(to the northeast) from the 3 ward (to the southwest).] The name of the avenue comes from a
planned canal which was to have connected the Mississippi River to the Congo Square terminus
of the Carondelet Canal, but was never constructed. The wide median earmarked for the canal
was referred to by early inhabitants as the "neutral ground", due to the animosities amongst
culturally distant residents on separate sides of the avenue. The term is still used by New
Orleanians to refer to all street medians. Notably, the world's first movie theater (that is, the first
business devoted specifically to showing films for profit) was "Vitascope Hall", established on
Canal Street in 1896.
French Market Place (La Place du March Franais): The historic French Market has existed
on the same site since 1791 and is America's oldest public market. It began as a Native
American trading post on the banks of the mighty, muddy Mississippi River, and over the years it
has attracted a multitude of European, African and far Eastern descendants leading to an enticing
multi-cultural and multi-lingual hub of commerce. The Butchers' Market, or Halle des
Boucheries, was designed in 1813 and is home to the French Market's oldest tenant, Caf du
Monde. In 1870, a structure known as the Bazaar Market was built. Most significant for its time,
this unusually well lit and functional building was designed by Joseph Abeilard, one of America's
first African-American architects. The French Market and nearby riverfront have undergone many
transformations over the years including the creation of Dutch Alley (a pedestrian plaza
dedicated to Mayor Ernest N. "Dutch" Morial) and the Moon Walk (a boardwalk atop the levee
dedicated to Mayor Maurice Edwin "Moon" Landrieu).
N./S. Peters St: On November 20, 1852 Levee Street became N. Peters Street and on July 24,
1855 New Levee Street became S. Peters Street. During much of the Riverfront Districts
plantation period, Royal Road, now Tchoupitoulas Street, was the original road closest to the
river. Alluvial deposits from the Mississippi River created, between 1760 and the mid-1800s, all
of the land below Tchoupitoulas Street. The river-born land, called battures (between the levee
and the river) was considered public. New Levee Street, built on the batture, replaced
Tchoupitoulas Street as the road closest to the river. Samuel Jarvis Peters (1823-1863) was a
New Orleans merchant, civic leader, banker and land developer instrumental in modernizing the
American Sector along with partner James H. Caldwell. [Faubourg St. Mary (or Faubourg Ste.
Marie), a commercial district, developed into the modern Central Business District.]
Decatur St (Rue de la Leve, Camino Real y Muelle): [According to Nancy Brister (see
http://www.neworleans.com/arts/history/historic-new-orleans-with-nancy-brister/145587-a-streetby-any-other-name.html): Decatur was originally the rue du Quai, and later became known as rue
de la Levee, which makes sense, since Decatur is the first street facing the Mississippi River and
the levee. But in 1870, Levee Street was renamed in honor of Stephen Decatur, the American
naval hero of Tripoli.]
Chartres St (Rue de Chartres, Calle D Chartres): [According to Nancy Brister (see
http://www.neworleans.com/arts/history/historic-new-orleans-with-nancy-brister/145587-a-streetby-any-other-name.html): Chartres Street initially bore two names: it was rue de Conde from the
church to the lower boundary line, named for a French prince; and from the church to the upper
boundary line, it was named rue de Chartres, for the oldest of the Orleans princes. After the
Americans came, it was called Church Street. But in the 1850's the city ordered it to be Chartres
for its entire length from Canal Street to the Esplanade.]
Royal St (Rue Royale, Calle Real): [According to Nancy Brister (see
http://www.neworleans.com/arts/history/historic-new-orleans-with-nancy-brister/145587-a-street-

by-any-other-name.html): Originally named Royale-Bourbon for both the royal family and the
dynasty, it was soon ordered changed to rue Royale by Bienville.]
Bourbon St (Rue Bourbon, Calle D Borbon): The House of Bourbon is a European royal
house, a branch of the Capetian dynasty. Bourbon monarchs ruled Navarre (from 1555) and
France (from 1589) until the 1792 overthrow of the monarchy during the French Revolution.
Restored briefly in 1814 and definitively in 1815 after the fall of the First French Empire, the
senior line of the Bourbons was finally overthrown in the July Revolution of 1830. A cadet
branch, the House of Orlans, then ruled for eighteen years (1830-1848) until it too was
overthrown. Spanish Bourbons (in Spain the name is spelled Borbn and rendered into English
as Borbon) have been overthrown and restored several times, reigning 1700-1808, 1813-1868,
1875-1931 and 1975 to the present day.
Dauphine St (Rue Dauphine, Camino D Bayona): Baiona (Galician: Baiona; Spanish: Bayona)
is a municipality in Galicia, Spain, in the province of Pontevedra. (Galicia is an autonomous
community and historic region in northwest Spain, with the status of a historic nationality, and
descends from one of the first kingdoms of Europe, the Kingdom of Galicia.) Bayona was
founded in 140 BC by Diomedes of Aetolia. Throughout its history it has had several names
including Stuciana, Abriga, Balcagia and Erizana. On March 1, 1493, the Pinta, one of the ships
from Columbus' voyage to discover the New World, returned to Europe and arrived in Baiona,
making the town's port the first to receive news of the discovery of America. [According to Nancy
Brister (see http://www.neworleans.com/arts/history/historic-new-orleans-with-nancybrister/145587-a-street-by-any-other-name.html): This street was first called rue de Vendome, in
honor of the French general, but it was changed to rue Dauphine, probably for the Dauphiness.
However, another version claims that the street was named for the French province of Dauphine
and, therefore, should be pronounced "DauphiNAY" instead of "DauFEEN" - but no one's paid
much attention to that.]
Burgundy St (Rue Bourgogne): Burgundy is one of the 26 regions of France. The modern
region of Burgundy is both larger than the old Duchy of Burgundy and smaller than the area ruled
by the Dukes of Burgundy. Also, Burgundy refers to wine made in the Burgundy region in eastern
France, the most famous ones being red wines made from Pinot Noir grapes or white wines
made from Chardonnay grapes. Finally, Burgundy is a shade of purplish red associated with the
Burgundy wine of the same name; the first recorded use of burgundy as a color name in English
was in 1881.
Rampart St: Rampart Street gets its name from the wall, or "Rampart" (Rempart in French), that
was built on the north side of the street in the city's early years to fortify the early French colonial
city. Notable landmarks along modern-day Rampart Street include Our Lady of Guadalupe
Chapel (The Old Mortuary Chapel) which was built in 1826 and is the oldest surviving church
building in New Orleans. [In 1817 an epidemic resulted in the formation of a board of health. This
office decided that the "exhalations of the dead at funeral services and the transporting of the
dead through the streets spread disease." This led to the passage of a city ordinance on March
22, 1821 forbidding the placing on view of the dead during any funeral service from the first day of
July through December. Before this time, all funerals took place at St. Louis Cathedral and
processed to St. Louis Cemetary No. 1 which had a small Protestant section segregated from the
predominant Catholic section. To rid the city of the danger that these funeral processions might
present, a funeral chapel was built adjacent to the cemetery. At that time it was called the
Mortuary Chapel of St. Anthony, but nowadays it is known as Our Lady of Guadalupe Church and
is separated from St. Louis Cemetary No. 1 by Basin Street.]
St Claude Ave: Claude de la Colombire (1641-1682) was a missionary and ascetical writer. He
is the patron saint of sculptors, and his feast day is February 15. This road emerged just beyond
the man-made barrier that separated the Vieux Carr (Old Square) from the swamps, and it led
to the famed Congo Square where, during the French and Spanish colonial era of the 18th

century, slaves were allowed to congregate on Sundays to exchange goods and perpetuate their
African cultural heritage through song and dance.
Basin St/Elk Pl/Loyola Ave/Simon Bolvar Ave/La Salle St:
Basin Street was once a wide waterway that served as the turning basin for ships
traveling down the Carondelet Canal from Bayou St. John. The Carondelet Canal was
built in 1795 under the administration of Francisco Luis Hector, Baron de Carondelet,
who served as the Governor of Louisiana from 1792 to 1797. The canal was intended to
improve drainage and sanitary conditions as well as to provide a better route for shipping
goods from the lakeshore to New Orleans, but by the early 1800s the canal was choked
with weeds and debris and was impassable except by pirogue at some points.
Lodge No. 30 of the Benevolent and Protective Order of Elks opened their new grand
headquarters in 1917 at 127 Elk Place. It was designed by Toledano, Wogan, & Bernard,
architects, and had a large ballroom on the third and fourth floors. Many musical events
took place here including an Armistice Celebration Dance in 1920 featuring a large
Mexican Band that included some of the same musicians who played here years earlier
for the Exposition in 1884. Today, this short stretch of road contains several monuments
on its neutral ground.
Saint Ignatius of Loyola (Basque: Loiolako Inazio, Spanish: Ignacio de Loyola) (1491 July 31, 1556) was a Spanish knight from a Basque noble family, hermit, priest since
1537, and theologian, who founded the Society of Jesus (Jesuits) and became its first
Superior General. Ignatius is the patron saint among others of soldiers, and his feast day
is celebrated on July 31.
Simn Jos Antonio de la Santsima Trinidad Bolvar y Palacios Ponte Blanco, (17831830) was vital in the liberation from Spain of lands that would become Peru, Venezuela,
Colombia, Ecuador, Panama, and Bolivia.
The first Frenchman to explore the lower Mississippi was Rene Robert Cavalier, Sieur de
La Salle, who passed by New Orleans' site in April 1682 on a float down the Mississippi
from Canada. De La Salle claimed the entire river basin from the Appalachians to the
Rockies for France, naming the area Louisiana in honor of Louis XIV and his Austrian
bride Queen Anne.
Trem St: The modern Trem neighborhood began as the Morand Plantation and two forts: St.
Ferdinand and St. John. Near the end of the 18th century, Claude Trem purchased the land
from the original plantation owner. In 1795 the Carondelet Canal was built from the French
Quarter to Bayou St. John, splitting the land. Developers began building subdivisions throughout
the area to house a diverse population that included Caucasians, Haitian Creoles, and free
persons of color. At the end of the 19th century, the Storyville red-light district was carved out of
the upper part of Trem; in the 1940s this was torn down and made into a public housing project
(the Iberville Housing Development being for whites and the Lafitte Housing Development being
for blacks). The "town square" of Trem was Congo Square, originally known as "Place des
Ngres", where slaves gathered on Sundays to dance and hold an open-air market. This
tradition flourished until the United States took control, and officials grew more anxious about
unsupervised gatherings of slaves in the years before the Civil War. Faubourg Trem is one of
the oldest neighborhoods in the city, and early in the city's history was the main neighborhood of
free people of color. It remains an important center of the city's African-American and Crole
culture, especially the modern brass band tradition.
Marais St: Marais means Marsh in French. This street runs through the heart of historic
Faubourg Trem.

Villere St: Jacques Phillippe Viller (April 28, 1761 - 7 March, 1830) was the second Governor of
Louisiana (from December 16, 1816 to December 18, 1820) after it became a state. He was the
first Creole and the first native of Louisiana (being born near present-day Kenner Louisiana) to
attain that office.
Robertson St: Thomas Bolling Robertson (February 27, 1779 - October 5, 1828) was Secretary
of the Territory of Orleans from 1807 until 1812, at which time Louisiana became a state. He was
the first United States Representative from the State of Louisiana serving four terms until 1818.
He was appointed Attorney General of Louisiana from 1819 to 1820, and he was elected
Louisianas third governor serving from December 18, 1820 to November 15, 1824 when he was
compelled to resign after riots broke out at his suggestion of moving the capitol from New Orleans
to Baton Rouge. [Henry Schuyler Thibodaux served as interim governor, officially Louisianas
fourth governor, from November 15, 1824 to December 13, 1824.]
Claiborne Ave: William Charles Cole Claiborne (born between 1772 and 1775, died November
23, 1817) was the first governor of lower Louisiana appointed on December 20, 1803 by
Thomas Jefferson the day the initial Louisiana Purchase from France was signed. He governed
what would become the State of Louisiana, then termed the "Territory of Orleans", during its
period as a United States territory from 1804 through 1812 and then became the first elected
governor after Louisiana was the eighteenth state admitted to the Union on April 30, 1812.
Claiborne served as the first elected governor from April 30, 1812 to December 16, 1816.
Derbigny St: Pierre Augustin Charles Bourguignon Derbigny (1769-1829) was the sixth
Governor of Louisiana serving from December 15, 1828 to October 6, 1829. Derbigny was
affiliated with the nascent National Republican Party, an anti-Jackson group, and among other
things called for the construction and repair of levees. On October 6, 1829, after ten months in
office, Governor Derbigny was thrown from a carriage on the West Bank of the Mississippi River
and died three days later in Gretna Louisiana. He is buried in St. Louis Cemetery No. 1.
Roman St: Andre Bienvenue Roman (1795 - January 26, 1866) was Speaker of the Louisiana
House of Representatives and the ninth Governor of Louisiana. He served two terms as
governor, from January 31, 1831 to February 4, 1835 and again from February 4, 1839 to
January 30, 1843. Governor Roman initially took office during a time of storms, floods,
depression and epidemics. During his first term, yellow fever killed over 5,000 Louisianans, the
number of banks in the state rose from 5 to 11, the Canal Bank built the New Basin Canal, the
Pontchartrain Railroad began locomotive service in 1832, and Roman is credited with
establishing the state penitentiary system. During his second term, Roman created the Office of
State Engineer, he promoted education and civic improvements, and he served as the President
of the New Orleans Drainage Company which drained the swamps behind the city. [The Wood
Screw Pump, designed seventy-odd years later in 1913 by A. Baldwin Wood, is a low-lift axialflow drainage pump that significantly improved the drainage of New Orleans. Until the installation
of Wood's extremely efficient pumps, the city experienced chronic flooding problems, bringing
diseases such as malaria and yellow fever together with contamination of drinking water
supplies.] After his second term in office, Governor Roman returned to his St. James Parish
home but remained politically active and, among other things, served as a delegate to the
Louisiana Secession convention in 1861. Although Roman opposed secession, the convention
voted in favor of secession and he was asked to negotiate a peaceable separation from the
United States. During the Civil War Roman lost all his wealth and property, and on January 26,
1866 Roman died while walking down Dumaine Street.
Prieur St: Denis Prieur was the tenth mayor of New Orleans, Louisiana, serving from May 12,
1828 through April 9, 1838 and again from April 4, 1842 through February 7, 1843. Prieur lived
openly with his quadroon mistress and as a result lost narrowly in his 1838 bid to become
Louisianas eleventh governor.
Johnson St:

Henry Johnson (September 14, 1783 - September 4, 1864) served as a United States
Representative and as a United States Senator and was the fifth Governor of Louisiana
from December 13, 1824 to December 15, 1828. During his term as governor, the
Louisiana legislature moved the seat of government to Donaldsonville in a compromise
between the Anglo-American leaders who wanted the capital out of New Orleans and the
Creoles who wanted to retain the seat of government within a French area. Johnsons
predecessor, Thomas Robertson, was forced to resign over this very same issue.
Isaac Johnson (1803-1853) was the twelfth governor of the state of Louisiana from
February 12, 1846 to January 28, 1850. During his term, Governor Johnson was
outspoken in his views: during the 1846-1848 U.S.-Mexican War Johnson put out a call
for volunteers and announced that the United States should annex all of Mexico. On the
expansion of slavery to new territories, Johnson was a champion of State's rights and
denounced the Wilmot Proviso to prohibit slavery in territories. One of the most important
accomplishments during Johnson's administration was an act establishing the University
of Louisiana, a bill he signed in 1847. In 1849, the state capitol was moved to Baton
Rouge. After his term as governor, Johnson served as Attorney General of Louisiana
until his death in 1853.
Galvez St: Bernardo de Glvez y Madrid (July 23, 1746 - November 30, 1786) was a Spanish
military leader and the general of Spanish forces in New Spain who served as governor of
Louisiana and Cuba and as viceroy of New Spain. [The territories of New Spain included presentday California, Southwestern United States including New Mexico, Mexico, Central America
(except Panama), Florida and the Caribbean.] Glvez aided the Thirteen Colonies in their quest
for independence and led the Spanish armies against Britain in the Revolutionary War, defeating
the British at Pensacola and reconquering Florida for Spain. Galveston, Texas and several other
places are named for him.
Miro St: Esteban Rodriguez Mir y Sabater (1744 - June 4, 1795), also known as Esteban Miro
and Estevan Miro, was a Spanish army officer and governor of the Spanish American provinces
of Louisiana and Florida. Rodrguez Mir was one of the most popular of the Spanish governors
largely because of his prompt response to the Great New Orleans Fire (1788) which destroyed
almost all of the city.
Tonti St: Henri de Tonti (1649 or 1650 - September 1704) was an Italian-born soldier, explorer,
and fur trader in the service of France. In the spring of 1682, Tonti journeyed with Ren-Robert
Cavelier, Sieur de La Salle on his famous descent of the Mississippi River, and Tontis letters and
journals are valuable source materials on these explorations.
Rocheblave St: Philippe-Franois de Rastel de Rocheblave (1727-1802) was a soldier and
politician in Lower Canada.
Dorgenois St: On July 9, 1894 Dolhonde Street was changed to Dorgenois Street. LeBreton
Dorgenois, who was related to the LeMoyne brothers of Bienville and Iberville, was the seventh
mayor of New Orleans, Louisiana, but held the office for less than a month. He served from
November 6, 1812 through December 4, 1812, and he was both preceded and succeeded by
Nicholas Girod. Historians are uncertain why Dorgenois presided for such a short duration, but
they speculate that Girod was either traveling for an extended time or had a protracted illness.
Perhaps the war of 1812 had something to do with it? [On June 18, 1812 the United States
declared war on Britain. The war had many causes, but at the center of the conflict was Britain's
ongoing war with Napoleons France with whom America continued to trade. Most of the fighting
took place along Americas eastern seaboard and in the Great Lakes region and Canada. The
Battle of New Orleans, however, is a famous battle that is often regarded as the greatest
American land victory of the war. It was a prolonged confrontation which took place in modernday Chalmette from December 23, 1814, to January 26, 1815, and it was the final major battle of

the War of 1812. American forces, commanded by General Andrew Jackson, defeated an
invading British army intent on seizing New Orleans and the vast territory America had acquired
with the Louisiana Purchase in 1803. The Treaty of Ghent had been signed on December 24,
1814, but news of the peace would not reach the combatants until February of 1815 after the
British troops were soundly defeated (Americas forces sustained 71 casualties compared with
Britains 2,000 casualties).]
{Girod St: Nicholas Girod (17471840) was the sixth mayor of New Orleans between 1812 and
1815, but his term was interrupted by LeBreton Dorgenois for an unknown reason. Girod served
for less than a month as the sixth mayor of New Orleans (October 8, 1812 through November 5,
1812) before Dorgenois took over for a month; Girod then finished his term from December 5,
1812 through September 4, 1815. Girods private residence in the French Quarter is now known
as the "Napoleon House". [For a complete list of New Orleans mayors see
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_mayors_of_New_Orleans.]}
Broad Ave: Commonly referred to as Broad Street, Broad Avenue was once known as Grand
Avenue. Presumably its name derives from the particularly wide roadway that accommodates
heavy automobile traffic as well as pumping stations. Broad Avenue, rather than Claiborne
Avenue as is often thought to be the case, serves as the official boundary between Faubourg
Trem and adjacent neighborhoods.
White St: Edward Douglass White, Sr. (March, 1795 - April 18, 1847) was the tenth Governor of
Louisiana from February 4, 1835 to February 4, 1839, and he was a member of the United States
House of Representatives serving five nonconsecutive terms in Congress as an adherent of
Henry Clay of Kentucky and the Whig Party. White's father, James White, was a delegate to the
Continental Congress while White's son, Edward Douglass White, Jr., would become a United
States senator from Louisiana and Chief Justice of the United States Supreme Court.
Paul Morphy St: Paul Charles Morphy (June 22, 1837 - July 10, 1884), "The Pride and Sorrow of
Chess," was a child prodigy chess player born and raised in New Orleans. He is considered to
have been the greatest chess master of his era and an unofficial World Chess Champion. His
father was of Portuguese, Irish, and Spanish ancestry while his mother came from a prominent
French creole family, so Morphy grew up in an atmosphere of genteel civility and culture where
chess and music were typical pastimes during family gatherings. The Morphy mansion, sold by
the family in 1891, is today the site of Brennan's Restaurant at 417 Royal Street.
Dupre St: Jacques Dupre (February 12, 1773 - September 14, 1846), born in New Orleans, was
a Louisiana State Representative, State Senator and the eighth Governor of Louisiana from
January 14, 1830 to January 31, 1831 (he was the second Acting Governor within the year
following Pierre Derbignys accidental death). As governor, Dupre oversaw the incorporation of
the first railroad, a canal company and a bayou improvement company, the Merchants Insurance
Company of New Orleans and a company to granulate sugar by a new process. During his
administration there is also a prohibition of further immigration of free persons of color into the
state and the expulsion of all those who entered since 1825. Also in 1830, the seat of
government returned to New Orleans from Donaldsonville.
Gayoso St: Manuel Luis Gayoso de Lemos Amorn y Magallanes (May 30, 1747 - July 18, 1799)
was the Spanish governor of Louisiana from 1797 until his death in 1799 from yellow fever. In
1798 he instituted state-run garbage collection (a novel idea at the time).
Salcedo St: Juan Manuel de Salcedo (1743 - ?) was governor of Louisiana from July 15, 1801 to
November 30, 1803 when the colony was transferred to Pierre Clement de Laussat. [Laussat
was the last French governor of Louisiana who transferred the colony to James Wilkinson and
William Charles Cole Claiborne of the United States on December 20, 1803.]
Lopez St:

Rendon St:
Hagan St:
Moss St: Moss Street was known as Port Street until July 9, 1894 when it was renamed Laussat
Street. On February 20, 1924 Laussat Street was changed to its present name of Moss Street.
Does the modern name stem from the Spanish Moss that hangs from nearby Live Oak trees
along the lagoons of City Park?
Jefferson Davis Pkwy: Jefferson Finis Davis (1808-1889) was the only President of the
Confederate States of America.
Clark St: George Clark was the thirty-first mayor of New Orleans who served for merely fifty-two
days (just over seven weeks) from March 20, 1866 through May 11, 1866.
Genois St: Charles Genois (c. 1793 - August 30, 1866) was the twelfth mayor of New Orleans
from May 1838 to May 1840. The main event of Genois' otherwise feeble term was the January
1840 dedication of the Jackson monument in the presence of Andrew Jackson himself. Charles
Genois is buried in St. Louis Cemetery No. 2.
Telemachus St: Telemachus (meaning "far-away fighter") is a figure in Greek mythology, the son
of Odysseus and Penelope, and a central character in Homer's Odyssey. One of Telemachus
most notable personality traits is his trust, and he also demonstrates a great desire to please
others. [The northeast corner of Telemachus St and Banks St, where Finn McCools Pub now
stands, is a peculiar boundary between voting Districts A and B. The pub is located in District A
whereas all other properties at that intersection reside in Disctrict B.]
Cortez St:
Scott St:
Pierce Ave: Levi Pierce was one of four business men (including Samuel Peters) who purchased
the plantation of Franois Livaudais in 1832 and developed it into a residential area now known
as the Garden District. [The City of Lafayette was created when residents of Faubourgs
Livaudais, Nuns and Lafayette (between Felicity Street and Harmony Street) recognized the need
for local government and taxation. The three suburbs consolidated their interests and appealed
to the Louisiana State Legislature to become a sovereign city adjacent to the City of New
Orleans. The City of Lafayette was officially incorporated in April of 1833 centered on modernday Washington Avenue, but the independent city was short-lived and became part of New
Orleans in 1852. Emile Commander opened his world-famous Commanders Palace restaurant
on Washington Avenue across from the historic Lafayette Cemetery in 1880.]
Carrollton Ave: The Carrollton neighborhood of Uptown New Orleans, near the river bend
furthest from the French Quarter, was once a massive plantation owned by Barthelemy McCarty
since 1781. In 1814, Carrollton namesake Major General William Carroll and 2500 troops
camped at McCarty Plantation en route to the Battle of New Orleans. In 1833 New Orleans
Canal and Banking Co. purchased half of the McCarty Plantation to obtain right of way for a
planned extension of the New Basin Canal, while investors Laurent Millaudon, Senator John
Slidell and Samuel Kohn bought the other half and hired planner Charles Zimpel to create the
street grid. Early settlers concentrated on the natural levee, and by 1845 the rural resort
community became an incorporated town. It was annexed by New Orleans in 1874, becoming
the 16th Ward and 17th Ward of the city, but has long retained some elements of distinct identity.
David St:

Solomon St:
Hennessey St: David C. Hennessy (1858 - October 16, 1890) was police chief of New Orleans
[yes, the street name is spelled incorrectly] in the late nineteenth century after twenty years of
serving the force. He became entangled in two feuding clans of local Mafiosi and was gunned
down in front of his home on the evening of October 15, 1890 by one of the Italian families. His
assassination triggered a lynching of sixteen Sicilian inmates at the Old Parish Prison on Bienville
Street, yet the mob remained firmly entrenched in this most lucrative port city. The U.S. Mafia,
however, adopted a rule against shooting police officers as a result of this backlash.
Alexander St:
Murat St:
Olympia St:
St. Patrick St: St. Patrick was a Christian missionary from Britain who is the most generally
recognized patron saint of Ireland. The dates of Patrick's life cannot be fixed with certainty, but
on a widespread interpretation he was active as a missionary in Ireland during the second half of
the fifth century. Pious legend credits Patrick with banishing snakes from the island, though all
evidence suggests that post-glacial Ireland never had snakes; one suggestion is that snakes
referred to the serpent symbolism of the Druids of that time and place. Legend also credits
Patrick with teaching the Irish about the concept of the Trinity by showing people the shamrock, a
three-leaved clover, using it to highlight the Christian belief of 'three divine persons in the one
God'.
Bernadotte St:
Anthony St:
Helena St:
City Park Ave:
Fortin St:
Maurepas St:
Ponce de Leon St: Juan Ponce de Len y Figueroa (1474 - July 1521) was a Spanish explorer.
He became the first Governor of Puerto Rico by appointment of the Spanish crown. He led the
first European expedition to Florida, which he named, and is associated with the legend of the
Fountain of Youth which is reputed to be in Florida.
Grand Route St. John St: Bayou St. John (French: Bayou Saint-Jean) is a bayou within the city
of New Orleans, Louisiana. The Bayou as a natural feature drained the swampy land of a good
portion of what was to become New Orleans into Lake Pontchartrain. In its natural state, it
extended much farther than today; colonial era and early 19th-century maps show it had
tributaries or branches (at least seasonally) reaching into what are now the Broadmoor
neighborhood, the New Orleans Central Business District just back from St. Charles Avenue
above Lee Circle, the Carrollton neighborhood, the Treme neighborhood, and a branch
connecting to Bayou Gentilly. The portion still in existence today was navigable by canoes and
similar small vessels, used by Native Americans since Pre-Columbian times. The natives knew
the waterway as Bayouk Choupic, named after a mudfish. There was a portage between the
Bayou and the Mississippi River, which attracted early French explorers, traders, and trappers,
some of whom established a small community here by the late 17th century. In 1701 a small fort
was established by the French beside the Lake Pontchartrain end of the Bayou to protect this

important route; Fort St. Jean would be known to later generations of New Orleanians as "Old
Spanish Fort". The Bayou and portage was a key factor in the selection of the site where the city
of New Orleans was founded in 1718, by the river end of the portage route. In colonial times the
portage trail became Grand Route St. John, later replaced as the main route by the wide straight
Esplanade Avenue. The Carondelet Canal was dug to connect the back of the city along the
River with the Bayou, and the Bayou dredged to accommodate larger vessels. In the early 20th
century, commercial use of the Bayou declined, and the Carondelet Canal was filled in.
Le Page St:
Desoto St: Hernando de Soto or (circa 1496/1497 - 1542) was a Spanish explorer and
conquistador who, while leading the first European expedition deep into the territory of the
modern-day United States, was the first European documented to have discovered the
Mississippi River. De Soto sailed to the New World in 1514 with the first Governor of Panama,
Pedrarias Dvila, and was notorious for his extreme brutality. During that time, Juan Ponce de
Len, who discovered Florida, Vasco Nez de Balboa, who discovered the Pacific Ocean (he
called it the "South Sea" below Panama), and Ferdinand Magellan, who first sailed the Pacific
Ocean to the Orient, profoundly influenced de Soto's ambitions.
Bell St:
Orchid St:
Bellechasse St:
Harding Dr:
Wilson Dr:
Taft Pl:
Roosevelt Pl/Picheloup Pl:
Olga St:
Ida St:
Elaine Pl:
Delgado Dr: Isaac Delgado, the original benefactor of Delgado Community College, was a
nineteenth century immigrant from Jamaica who became a wealthy New Orleans businessman
and sugar planter. His philanthropies included the arts, medicine, and education. In a 1909
codicil to his will, he bequeathed the residue of his estate to the City of New Orleans to establish
a manual trade school for young boys.
Sherwood Forest Dr: Sherwood Forest is a Royal Forest in Nottinghamshire, England, that is famous
through its historical association with the legend of Robin Hood. [Sherwood is a derivation of shire wood.
A shire is a traditional term for a division of land, found in the United Kingdom, Ireland and in Australia, that
was governed by a royal official known as a "shire reeve" or sheriff.] Sherwood Forest Dr was once known
as City Park Row and also Delgado Avenue, but it acquired its current name on February 20, 1924.

Stewart Ct:
Allard Blvd: Formerly Morgan Blvd, on 2/20/1924 the street was renamed to honor the vast
plantation that encompassed much of the Parkview neighborhood and part of City Park in the
early nineteenth century. [The plantation of Louis Allard was purchased by his grandfather, Don

Santiago Lorreins, in the 1770s from the estate of Francisco Hery, called Duplanty, builder of the
first Cabildo Building in New Orleans in 1769. The plantation was acquired from Louis Allard in
1845 by John McDonough and given to the city of New Orleans in 1850.]
Bungalow Ct:
David St:
Passera Ct:
Banks St: Benjamin Franklin Butler (November 5, 1818 - January 11, 1893) commanded the
troops that accompanied Admiral Farragut in taking New Orleans and was made military governor
of the city. There his highhanded rule (May - December, 1862) infuriated the people of New
Orleans and the South and earned him the name Beast. (He was nicknamed "Beast Butler" or
alternatively "Spoons Butler," the latter nickname derived for his alleged habit of pilfering the
silverware of Southern homes in which he stayed.) The government, severely criticized both at
home and abroad for his actions, finally removed him. He was replaced by Nathaniel Prentice (or
Prentiss) Banks (January 30, 1816 - September 1, 1894) as commander of the Department of the
Gulf. Banks was much less corrupt than Butler and even returned some of the property that had
been confiscated by Butler. Though New Orleans residents were not happy to be under Union
occupation, Banks relatively fair treatment of the southerners earned him respect and eventually
the homage of having a street named after him.
Spanish Province of Luisiana from 1762-1803: Ironically, the majority of buildings in the
French Quarter were actually created under Spanish rule. In large part, the grandeur of the area
is due to the urban revival efforts of The Baroness Michaela Pontalba, daughter of the
Almonaster (head Spanish guy), who had two apartment buildings built around what is now
Jackson Square. These Pantalba apartments are America's oldest apartment buildings.
Lafayette Square: First known as Place Gravier, it became Lafayette Square after Lafayettes
visit to New Orleans in 1825. [Marquis de Lafayette, a Frenchman who assisted the Americans
with their war for independence, became a hero of the French Revolution. He resided in the
Cabildo during visits in 1824 and 1825.] Lafayette Square is located across from the historical
Gallier Hall, former City Hall and current site of the official reviewing stand for Mardi gras parades
along the Uptown route.
Jackson Square (Plaza D Armas): Jackson Square has always been an open area and the
heart of the French Quarter. Originally, known as the Plaza d'Armas, it was a large open
common, used at times as military parade grounds and later as a market place for fish, fowl and
produce. Andrew Jackson (March 15, 1767 - June 8, 1845) was the seventh President of the
United States (18291837). Renowned for his toughness, this son of Scotch-Irish immigrants
was nicknamed "Old Hickory". He was commander of the American forces at the Battle of New
Orleans (1815), military governor of Florida (1821) and eponym of the era of Jacksonian
democracy. A polarizing figure who dominated American politics in the 1820s and 1830s, his
political ambition combined with widening political participation shaped the modern Democratic
Party.
Sojourner Truth Community Center: Born Isabella Baumfree circa 1797, Sojourner Truth was
an African-American abolitionist and women's rights activist. She was born into slavery in
Swartekill, New York, speaking only Dutch until she was nine years old, but acquired her freedom
when the state of New York emancipated its slaves on July 4, 1827 (a legislative process that
took twenty-eight years to complete). On June 1, 1843, Isabella Baumfree changed her name to
Sojourner Truth and told her friends, "The Spirit calls me, and I must go." She became a
Methodist, and left to make her way traveling and preaching about abolition. She gave a speech
at the first National Women's Rights Convention in Worcester, Massachusetts, in 1850, but her
best-known speech, Ain't I a Woman?, was delivered in 1851 at the Ohio Women's Rights

Convention in Akron, Ohio. Sojourner Truth moved to Michigan in 1857, where she helped recruit
African-American troops for the Union Army during the Civil War, and she remained an activist
until her death on November 26, 1883, in Battle Creek, Michigan.
Old Police Jail and Patrol Station: This building, located at 2552 St. Philip, is a registered
national historic landmark. It was erected in 1902 during the administration of Paul Capdevielle,
Mayor of New Orleans from May 7, 1900 through December 5, 1904.
John McDonogh Senior High School: John McDonogh (December 29, 1779 - October 26,
1850), originally born in Baltimore MD, was a New Orleans entrepreneur and philanthropist who
made his fortune in the shipping business. In 1818 he established the town of McDonoghville,
now called McDonogh, which is in present-day Algiers and Gretna. Described as reclusive and
eccentric, he is most famous for endowing public education in two major American cities - New
Orleans and Baltimore. Although during his life McDonogh was an infamous miser, he left the
bulk of his fortune (close to $2 million) to the cities of Baltimore and New Orleans for the purpose
of building public schools for poor children - specifically, white and freed black children. This was
unprecedented, and proved controversial. Although the New Orleans public school system had
been established in 1841, the McDonogh Fund facilitated major expansion. Eventually over thirty
schools were built, most emblazoned with his name and a number. By the early 1970s there
were twenty McDonogh schools remaining in New Orleans. In the 1980s and 1990s, many of
those were renamed in a movement to remove the names of slaveholders from New Orleans'
public schools. The following John McDonogh schools are still in operation, post-Katrina:
McDonogh Senior High School, #7, #15, #26, #28, #32, #35, #42.
Cabrini High School: Saint Frances Xavier Cabrini (July 15, 1850 - December 22, 1917), also
called Mother Cabrini, was the first American citizen to be canonized by the Roman Catholic
Church. The youngest of thirteen children born to Agostino Cabrini and Stella Oldini in
Sant'angelo Lodigano, Italy, Cabrini took religious vows in 1877 and changed her name to honor
the Jesuit saint Francis Xavier. She was sent to New York City by Pope Leo XIII in March of
1889 where she founded an orphanage for Italian immigrants. Eventually she helped establish
similar orphanages in Italian communities in Chicago, Des Plaines, Seattle, New Orleans,
Denver, Golden, Los Angeles, Philadelphia and in countries throughout South America and
Europe. She is the patron saint of immigrants and hospital administrators, and her feast day is
December 22.
John Diebert Elementary School: John Diebert (January 4, 1844 - June 5, 1912) was a
lumberman and philanthropist. He and his wife, Eve Butterworth Diebert, had no children so they
left their riches to New Orleans in many ways. They donated funds for the John Diebert
Tuberculosis Hospital, completed in 1926; they contributed to the construction of the Sisters of
Charity residence next to Charity Hospital; they contributed to Hope Haven, a home for boys; they
contributed to the Eye, Ear, Nose, and Throat Hospital; they established the John Diebert
Memorial building fronting Hotel Dieu Hospital; they were contributing members of the St.
Andrew's Episcopal Church; they funded the John Diebert Public School; and they contributed to
flood relief work.
Phillis Wheatley Elementary: Phillis Wheatley (1753  December 5, 1784?) was the first
professional African poet in America and the first African-American woman whose writings were
published. Born in Gambia or Senegal, West Africa, she was enslaved at age eight. She was
purchased by the Wheatley family of Boston, who taught her to read and write, and helped
encourage her poetry.
George O. Mondy Jr. School (formerly William O. Rogers School):
William O. Rogers served as Superintendent of New Orleans Schools during different
periods and worked closely with Robert Mills Lusher who was eventually elected State
Superintendent of Education. Both Lusher and Rogers were supporters of the

Confederacy (Lusher joined the Confederate Guard but never saw action while Rogers
served as a Confederate officer) and Segregation. Rogers left his position as
Superintendent in 1870 because he was opposed to the section of the New School Law
that read all schools established under the law shall be open to all children between the
ages of six and twenty-one years without distinction of race, color or previous condition.
He resumed the position in 1877 when federal troops withdrew from Louisiana, and while
the general school act of 1877 and the (state) Constitution of 1879 did not mention
segregation, he worked closely with Lusher to establish de facto segregation. Rogers did
work towards schools for educating women and black children and teachers, but was
aggressively opposed to the co-education of women or black people alongside white
people and white men. [Board Policy #3770 of the Orleans Parish School Board, adopted
in December 1992 and effected one month later, allows a school community to initiate the
renaming of its school. This policy reflects the School Boards opposition to school
names of former slave owners or others who did not respect equal opportunity for all.]
Rev. George O. Mondy, Jr., a graduate of McDonogh No. 35 High School, was a lifelong
resident of New Orleans. He was ordained as a minister in 1992 by the Rising Sun
Missionary Baptist Association and served at New Gloryland Baptist Church. He was
one of the founders of the Black Association of New Orleans Fire Fighters and a member
of New Orleans Fire Fighters Association Local 632.
Andrew J. Bell Junior High: The school site is approximately 3.5 acres and is composed of
three brick buildings. The largest building once housed the St. Joseph Academy, and the library
is listed in the National Register of Historic Places. Andrew J. (Jackson?) Bell, born in
Bardstown, Kentucky on December 5, 1865, supported his family by teaching music and serving
as the organist at St. Augustine's Church in Louisville. After his wife died in 1900 he became a
public school teacher and eventually moved to New Orleans, Louisiana. For twenty-eight years,
until his retirement in 1941, he taught music at Marigny, McDonogh No. 6, and Thomy Lafon
schools.
Morris Jeff Community School: An open-access public elementary school slated to re-open in
fall 2010 that is named after Morris FX Jeff Sr who pioneered education and recreation programs
for the citys youth as a director of NORD programs for nearly forty years. Morris Jeff was a longtime member of the Zulu SA&PC and served as the much-honored Zulu King in 1972.

Here is a timeline of important local events as presented by the New Orleans Bicentennial
Commission (this is a portion of the monument on the neutral ground of Elk Place):
1718 Founding of New Orleans by Bienville
1719 Company of the West re-organized
1721 First (recorded) hurricane
1727 Ursulines arrive
1736 Founding of Charity Hospital
1742 Bienville resigns
1753 First theatrical production
1762 Cession of Louisiana to Spain
1764 First Acadians
1768 Revolution expels (Spanish Governor Antonio de) Ulloa
17?? missing 1 stone
1777 Don Berna(r)do de Galvez governor
17?? missing 9 stones
1799 Cabildo completed
18?? missing 1 stone
1805 City of New Orleans incorporated
1806 City police force created

1807 Fire department created
1810 Thomy Lafon (wealthiest free person of color in the nation as of 1870, human rights
activist and philanthropist) was born [Thomy Lafon (December 28, 1810 December 22, 1893) was a Creole business man, philanthropist and human
rights activist in New Orleans, Louisiana, USA. He was born poor, but was a free
person of color. He was largely self-educated and started out selling cakes to
workers, opened a small store, was a school teacher for a time and became
successful at money lending and real estate investment. He was an opponent of
slavery and supported racial integration in schools. Lafon is mostly known for his
large donations to the American Anti-Slavery Society, the Underground Railroad,
the Catholic School for Indigent Orphans, the Louisiana Association for the
Benefit of Colored Orphans and other charities for both blacks and whites. In his
will he also gave funds to local charities and the Charity Hospital, Lafon Old
Folks Home, Dillard University and the Sisters of the Holy Family, an order of
African-American nuns. Odyssey House in New Orleans is example of the
lasting legacy of Thomy Lafon. The Thomy Lafon school was called "the best
Negro schoolhouse in Louisiana", but was burned down by a white mob during
the New Orleans Race Riot of 1900. Lafon also supported Tribune, the first
black-owned newspaper in the south after the American Civil War.]
th
1812 Louisiana becomes (18 ) State of the U.S.
1815 Battle of New Orleans
(1816 Breach of the Mississippi River levee known as McCartys Crevasse floods New
Orleans and deposits sediments in what will become the Lower Garden District
raising it to high ground and making the soil so fertile that luxuriant gardens
were easily grown)
1817 Victor Sejour (playwright) born
1821 John James Audubon (naturalist) arrives
1822 Lafayette Square acquired
1824 Giacamo Beltrami explores Mississippi River and discovers headwaters
1825 Livingstons Penal Code of Louisiana
1829 Louis Moreau Gottschalk (composer and pianist) born
1830 French market built
1831 Pontchartrain Railroad opens
1832 New Basin Canal begun
1834 Jackson Barracks erected (Wilson)
1836 City divided into three municipalities
1837 Picayune begins publication
1838 First Mardi Gras parade
1839 U.S. Mint begins coinage
1841 Public schools organized
1845 Armand Lanusse (a free Crole de couleur renowned as poet and educator)
publishes Les Cenelles
1846 Norbert Rillieuxs sugar process
1847 U.S. Customhouse begun
1850 McDonogh funds public schools in New Orleans
1851 Present St. Louis Cathedral completed
1853 Gallier Hall dedicated
1854 Earliest private hospital
1855 Carrollton courthouse erected
1858 Paul Morphy conquers Europe (in chess)
1859 French Opera House opens
1863 M.W. Prince Hall Grand Lodge of Louisiana F. & A.M. founded
18?? missing 1 stone
1870 New Orleans absorbs Algiers and Jefferson City
18?? missing 1 stone
1874 Carrollton joins New Orleans

18?? missing 1 stone
1880 James B. Eads jetties completed [at the mouth of the Mississippi River making a
naviagable channel]
1881 New Orleans Board of Trade, Ltd founded
1883 California train service
1884 Oldest Elks Lodge in Deep South
1885 Cotton Exposition
1888 First electric street lights
1892 Mother Cabrini founds Italian orphanage
1893 Electric street railways
1896 Dock Board created
1897 First Civil Service Commission begins operation
1898 McDonogh monument in Lafayette Square
1899 Sewerage & Water Board formed
1900 Louis Armstrong born
1901 First Louisiana oil well
1903 First automobile traffic law
1904 Inauguration of Mayor Martin Behrman
1905 Last yellow fever epidemic
1907 Compulsory school attendance
1908 Public Belt railroad
1910 E.D. White Chief Justice U.S.A.
1911 Mahalia Jackson born
1913 New Orleans Chamber of Commerce
1916 State Federation of Labor organized
1919 Delta Steamship Lines founded
1922 New Orleans Public Service founded
1923 Industrial Canal opened
1924 First Lake Pontchartrain bridge
1927 Mississippi River floods
1933 Harvey Locks completed
1934 Sugar Bowl
1935 Huey P. Long bridge (completed)
1937 Housing Authority of New Orleans (HANO) created
1945 International Trade Mart founded
1946 Inauguration of Mayor DeLesseps S. Morrison
1958 Mississippi River bridge (completed)
1961 Inauguration of Mayor Victor Schiro
1965 Hurricane Betsy
(1967 New Orleans awarded an NFL franchise on November 1 which is All Saints Day)
(1969 Hurricane Camille)
1970 Inauguration of Mayor Moon Landrieu
1975 Superdome opened
1976 Bicentennial
19?? missing 2 stones
(1984 Worlds Fair is held in New Orleans)
(1992 Mardi Gras krewes desegregate thanks to council person Dorothy Mae Taylor)
(2000 New Orleans Saints win first playoff game)
(2004 Canal streetcar line reopens on April 18)
(2005 Hurricane Katrina and subsequent levee breaches flood New Orleans)
(2009 New Orleans Saints win Super Bowl XLIV)

