January | 2010 | Man About Town
Man About Town
Reflection on the great and the good that contemporary culture has to offer
Archive for
January 2010
TV News Flash
leave a comment »
Neighbours Star Reveals Toil of Pregnancy Plot
Long time
Ramsay Street
favourite
Susan Kennedy , played by actress Jackie Woodburne, has revealed to Channel Five the challenges she faced when filming her character’s latest storyline.
Next week will see the dramatic events unfold as Susan, and husband Karl ( Alan Fletcher ), take a weekend break in the country with daughter Libby ( Kym Valentine ) and husband Dan (Brett Tucker) to clear the air.
Libby and Dan have been unable to conceive, prompting Susan to step forward as a surrogate. In Woodburne’s own words, “she is doing it out of complete love for Libby and complete desire to help Libby and Dan have a child.”
At Karl’s insistence, both couples set off for their weekend away but it is when Susan joins Dan for a morning jog that the situation takes a tragic turn for the worse:
“Dan puts his iPod on and says ‘I’ve got to get away from you.’ He runs off and she goes after him and says ‘Don’t walk away, we have to sort this out.’ He doesn’t hear her. She falls very heavily down an embankment. She’s found several hours later in a very bad state and is taken to hospital, where she loses the baby.”
For Woodburne to have to convey such heart-wrenching emotions was an exhausting experience:
“It was a very, very gruelling few weeks. Obviously for all of us it was a very difficult few weeks of story.
“We could only talk about certain things in vague terms. Everyone had to work very hard to make it as complex and sophisticated as the story demanded but keep it within the restrictions of the time slot.”
The storyline also signals Tucker’s departure from the show. Although the circumstances surrounding his character’s departure are not yet known, Woodburne says that she is “very disappointed that he left the show.”
Fleiss: There Are Drugs in the BB House
Recent Celebrity
Big Brother
evictee,
Heidi Fleiss , has revealed to Heat Magazine that housemates are receiving supplies of
prescription drugs
from Big Brother.
Fleiss, who achieved notoriety after her arrest for running an exclusive escort agency – supplying girls to Hollywood’s rich and famous, admitted that stars were provided with various forms of prescription medication behind the scenes.
She was almost forced to leave the show herself because she had not received her prescribed dosage of valium:
“I’m an old drug addict. I gotta take all my medication or else my personality will get ahead of itself. As soon as I got my medication, there was no problem.”
When asked if other housemates were allowed their medication she replied, “Oh yeah.”
She cited a conversation she had in the house with fellow evictee, Ivana Trump:
“When Ivana came in, I asked her, ‘Do you have any valium?’ She was like ‘Nooo.’
“I’m sure I saw her popping something at night. I don’t know what she was popping, but she was doing it right before bed.”
Fleiss added, “I would like a valium for the flight home.”
Time for a Change at
Have I got News For You ?
According to sometime contestant Will Self, it is time for team captains
Ian Hislop
and
Paul Merton
to leave the popular quiz show
Have I got News For You .
The popular BBC2 programme, which takes a satirical look at the world of politics, has amassed over 30 series, but author and journalist Self believes it is time for a change of personnel.
Speaking to
The Word , he explained that he would never return as a contestant with the show in its current state:
“After my last outing I wouldn’t do it again. It had mutated.
“You now, all due respect to Paul Merton and Ian Hislop, they’re plump middle aged men sitting behind a desk making cracks about Clive Anderson’s hairstyle. That’s not satire is it?”
With typical humility and reverence Self cited the last time he believed the show to be of an acceptable standard; an episode in which he and fellow contestant Linda Smith exposed Neil Kinnock to a barrage of abuse, and “made him look like a complete arse.”
The only solution, in Self’s eyes, is for messrs Hislop and Merton to “quit the field, leave it to younger people who are hungry and savage and still want to assault the powerful and wealthy.”
The show still enjoys a primetime slot on BBC2 and regularly attracts high profile political figures as both guests and presenters. It has also been the scene of some scathing attacks on the political establishment from
Private Eye
editor Hislop, and broadcaster Merton.
Related articles by Zemanta
Heidi’s Drug Allegations In Big Brother House!
(perezhilton.com)
51.516323
-0.056501
Written by William Mathieson
January 29, 2010 at 4:57 pm
Posted in
Entertainment
Tagged with
Add new tag ,
Alan Fletcher ,
Big Brother ,
Have I Got News for You ,
Heidi Fleiss ,
Ian Hislop ,
Kym Valentine ,
Paul Merton ,
Television
News and Opinion 28/01
leave a comment »
Due to unforeseen circumstances, today’s post will take the form of a brief assessment of news from around the world.
The sight of a teenage girl being dragged from the rubble in
Port-au-Prince
was truly inspirational. Despite the devastation surrounding the rescuers, her survival offers yet another beacon of hope to Haiti’s ravaged community. The extraordinary effort of the rescue team is an enduring example of man’s ability to unite in the face of adversity; with comments being broadcast from rescuers of all nationalities, it is a true symbol of humanitarianism in action.
Adam Crozier will become
ITV ’s new
Chief Executive , leaving Royal Mail after a tumultuous final year at the helm. With the broadcaster struggling to stay afloat in a saturated market, Crozier’s appointment is both ambitious and risky. He has held the position of CEO at both the FA and Royal Mail, but has been dogged by industrial unrest and discontent among the ranks. Crozier will certainly bring a headstrong and resilient business mind to ITV but speculation will be rife over whether an ailing business needs such a rupturous
personality as it chief…
Although I may be beginning to resemble east
London ’s resident ‘Barack Obama fan-club chairman’, I must again sing his praises; his first State of the Union address was delivered with humility, reverence and panache. Whilst acknowledging the shortcomings of his government, he emphasised their courage in tackling suprastructural problems that had been sidestepped by the preceding premiership, with his usual charisma and dignity. Let’s just hope the
Americans
eventually ‘wake up and smell the coffee’!
A special mention for a number of athletes today: Congratulations must go to both Manchester football clubs. Both United and City contributed to what must be considered the most enthralling League Cup semi-final of the modern era.
Well done too to
Andy Murray , who has become the first post-war Brit to reach two grand slam finals. The world number five despatched the giant Croat,
Marin Cilic , with relative ease to reach the
Australian Open
final. From the other semi final either Federer or Tsonga would provide Murray with a stern test, but the manner in which he has reached the final has been outstanding; let us not forget that he despatched world number two,
Rafael Nadal , with consummate ease.
Related articles by Zemanta
Murray powers into Aussie final
(news.bbc.co.uk)
Andy Murray Through To Aus Open Final
(news.sky.com)
Murray channels Highland spirit to reach final
(canada.com)
51.516323
-0.056501
Written by William Mathieson
January 28, 2010 at 4:13 pm
Posted in
News ,
Politics
Tagged with
Add new tag ,
Andy Murray ,
Australian Open ,
Barack Obama ,
London ,
Marin Čilić ,
Port-au-Prince ,
Rafael Nadal ,
United States
Chris Ofili
leave a comment »
From tomorrow, Tate Britain will be exhibiting the most extensive collection of works to date from the celebrated contemporary artist, Chris Ofili.
The 2003 Turner prize winner has represented Britain at the 50th
Venice Biennale , and this exhibition provides a visual journey through both his work and his artistic progression. It is divided into seven rooms, beginning with his work from the early nineties and continuing through to his most recent pieces, produced since his relocation to the island of
Trinidad .
There is a notable difference between the themes explored in his British works and his Trinidadian pieces. His early paintings are best described as a visual tirade. Using a myriad of materials, including glitter, resin, oils and magazine cut-outs, Ofili cross-examines his Afro-Caribbean heritage and attempts to challenge
popular media
stereotypes. A concurrent theme of his early work is the use of elephant dung. These dung balls appear on each painting and, in his own words, are a way of “raising the paintings up from the ground and giving them a feeling that they’ve come from the earth rather than simply being hung on the wall.”
Chris Ofili Blossom 1997 Private Collection © Chris Ofili
It is clear what Ofili is trying to express: the frequent conflict between the rough and smooth in black culture, or the contrast between patriarchal aggression in rap music and its African influences.
The paintings however, come across as overly and maybe unnecessarily, obscene.
The Holy
Virgin Mary
in particular, uses a series of explicit pornographic images to, in Ofili’s words, demonstrate “the stereotyping of the black female.” Again, although the logic is clear, it seems somewhat overwrought. The works of the nineties are certainly visually stunning, thanks in large part to the innovative combination of materials, but one is left feeling that the meaning behind the works has been lost in translation.
The notable exception from this period is Ofili’s own response to the murder of
Stephen Lawrence
in 1993. As a young black male, this tragedy is sure to have resonated deeply within him and his painting, No Woman, No Cry contains moving images of the teenager arranged in a collage to form a teardrop. Ofili has said of the piece that he was inspired by Doreen Lawrence, Stephen’s mother, and her dignity and strength since the loss of her son.
At the turn of the century Ofili’s work took a change of direction. His pieces became noticeably more reflective, contrasting different religious symbols such as the Hindu monkey god Hanuman and images of the Last Supper. Ofili has since collaborated with famed architect David Adjaye to create a poignant space in which to examine the paintings. This effect is certainly achieved and there is a tangible sense of a paradigm shift within his work. As he explains:
“It was important for the space to feel akin to a space of worship and to experience the kind of feelings you get when you walk in to a place like that. I wondered if that was possible, and whether paintings could enhance that feeling.”
His later works, including those that were shown in the British Pavillion at the Venice Biennale, utilise the culturally embedded colour scheme of the African Union’s flag. These colours evoke visions of a distant subterranean paradise, reminiscent of the jungles of West
Africa . The use of these deep colours creates powerful images that appear to merge different religious elements. It is difficult to decipher the
cultural
grounding of each piece, making them all the more intriguing. This is particularly true of his 2006 piece Iscariot Blues, which references
Jesus
and
Judas
in an unrecognisable format.
In recent times, his move to the tropical island of Trinidad has informed his use of nature and his surroundings in his work:
“I’ve found that the night and twilight here enhances the imagination. In the city our relationship to the night is very particular because it’s always illuminated, but here it’s unlit, so you’re relying on the light of the moon and sensitivity of the eyes. It’s a different level of consciousness that is lees familiar to me, and stimulating through a degree if fear and mystery.”
There are clearly two distinct ‘eras’ of Ofili’s work. His early efforts are ‘poptastic’, using bright colours and explicit imagery to turn the spotlight back onto popular black culture; many of his subjects are recognised misogynists from the
hip-hop
fraternity. This detracts somewhat from their sentiment and the overwhelming message is that these pieces are intended to shock, using the concept of race to amplify the point.
His later works are more serene and reflective, and examine greater visceral themes. Because he has delved into his own conception of ‘paradise’, these mellower works appear to carry more gravitas. Indeed, the darkness of his subterranean scenes will invite the viewer to investigate the piece in a far more holistic manner.
Visitors to Ofili’s exhibition should expect to be exposed to a collection of extreme contrasts and, maybe, that is his allure.
Related articles by Zemanta
Ofili adds colour to controversy
(guardian.co.uk)
Chris Ofili heads into the shadows
(guardian.co.uk)
Chris Ofili: ‘I wander deep into the forest – where it’s scary’
(telegraph.co.uk)
Written by William Mathieson
January 26, 2010 at 1:33 pm
Posted in
Art
Tagged with
Add new tag ,
Art ,
Hip hop ,
Mary ,
Painting ,
Popular culture ,
Trinidad ,
Venice Biennale ,
Visual arts
Crisis, What Crisis?
with 2 comments
There has been an outpouring of worry and emotion throughout the
City of London
this morning, in response to the current crisis. Not for the worst humanitarian crisis in recent memory, that has ravaged the island of
Haiti ; the crisis facing
banking
giants across the world in the wake of
Barack Obama ’s new legislation.
The
American
president
has added fuel to the fire of his
Republican
foes by introducing revolutionary legislation that will require
retail
banks to separate their commercial and investment arms, in an attempt to quash the frivolity that brought the world’s economy to its knees in 2008 and 2009.
In certain [gun toting, evangelical] American circles this move will provide further proof that Obama is simply a Socialist sent from hell to drain America of its prosperity. For the rest of us though, or at least those of us who understand the concept of a global economy, it is a bold and courageous move. By taking the lead in such matters, president Obama has paved the way for other state executives to follow suit, when before they felt their hands were tied.
This will have sent shivers down the collective spine of City bosses this morning. Many will fear that Britain could soon follow suit, in turn loosening the grip the City has around our economy’s figurative throat.
Listening to this news break yesterday afternoon, it struck me how it had gained precedence over the crisis in Haiti, which still threatens to spiral out of control. Despite the horrific loss of life, and the appalling conditions facing those who have survived, widespread anarchy has thus far been avoided on the island. Even so, in light of the fact that we do exist as part of an interconnected, global economy, I felt that talk of banks and regulation should concede airtime to the problems in the
Caribbean . After all, it is only by keeping the spotlight on Haiti that we ensure the public keeps supporting the Haitian people. Additionally, a global economy is the sum of its parts and, no matter how small a country’s contribution, it deserves some form of return when in need.
The response to the crisis across the world has been astonishing and long may it continue. It may stand this morning’s bankers in good stead to consider that their wealth emerged, over a century ago, from the first truly global economy, and that sometimes people’s primal needs outweigh their need for bonuses.
As an aside, it was no surprise to hear the serial bandwagon-jumpers announcing this morning that they had always had president Obama’s initiative in mind; Shadow Chancellor, George Osbourne yet again claimed another idea for the Tories. It seems every theory or policy with any gravitas was actually formulated by the
Conservatives
years beforehand. Yet another black mark against the reactionary hangers on in 2010.
Related articles by Zemanta
UK considers Barack Obama-style banking revolution
(guardian.co.uk)
Proposed bank rules slam Wall Street shares
(thestar.com)
Written by William Mathieson
January 22, 2010 at 10:54 am
Posted in
Politics
Tagged with
Add new tag ,
Barack Obama ,
Caribbean ,
City of London ,
Conservatives ,
Haiti ,
President of the United States ,
Republican ,
United States
The Real Van Gogh: The Artist and His Letters
with 2 comments
The works of acclaimed impressionist Vincent Van Gogh are to be displayed in Britain this month for the first time in forty years. London’s esteemed Royal Academy of Arts will also display an unprecedented number of letters written by Van Gogh to his loved ones during his short life as an artist.
The 35 detailed correspondences are accompanied by his famous works, including over 60 paintings and 30 drawings. This is a truly comprehensive collection, with a staggering compendium of original letters and the instantly recognisable impressionist works that they document.
The letters that
Van Gogh
wrote to his family and friends provide a personal explanation of both the meaning of his travails and their composition, and provide an unrivalled insight into the mind of a tortured genius. What is both fascinating and surprising about this exhibition, upon closer inspection of his
writing , is Van Gogh’s commitment to artistic concepts, and his dedication to perfecting established techniques and principles. A common misconception is that such a confused and unsettled individual used his
art form
as a way of expressing his inner anguish. Instead, his reasoning behind each work is shockingly considered and methodical.
Van Gogh Museum, Amsterdam (Vincent van Gogh Foundation)
The majority of his letters were written to his brother Theo, who was an art dealer. He also wrote to his sister, Willemien, and a number of notable artists including Anton van Rappard,
Emile Bernard
and
Paul Gauguin . In the majority of these letters Van Gogh shows himself to be a diligent student. Indeed, in many of his letters to van Rappard, he writes in the style of an apprentice seeking tutelage from his master; some of van Rappard’s responses, particularly to ‘The Potato Eaters’, are overly savage in their criticism and Van Gogh is visibly hurt in his following correspondences.
To his siblings, his tone is more methodical and explanatory. He details to Theo new utensils that he has developed and the effects that they inspire. What is most striking about these letters is the detailed sketches – referred to as ‘scratches’ by the man himself – contained within the letter, offering examples of projects he was working on at the time. This is another wonderful aspect of the exhibition, as the sketches can be directly compared to the finished products that they set out to envisage. It is alarming to see just how accurate Van Gogh was in recreating such scenes using a dazzling array of oils, chalks, pencils and pens.
Van Gogh Museum, Amsterdam (Vincent van Gogh Foundation)
Although revered as one of history’s great artistes, Van Gogh’s letters prove him to be an equally reflective and pragmatic observer of society. Subconsciously applying impressionism in its literal form, his works are shown to be cultural examinations of people and the environment that shaped their lives. He is also clearly very influenced by his own childhood and the rural area in which he grew up; farmers and labouring tasks comprise a significant amount of his earlier work. All of the time though, he uses these influences as a means of improving his own abilities and seeks advice and clarification from his artistic peers at every step of the works’ development.
Having drawn inspiration from his homeland as a young artist, progressing onto scenes of rural communities, Van Gogh arrived in
Paris
in 1886 and immediately realigned his hypothesis and methodology once more. Surrounded by the influences of the great
French impressionists , he dove headlong into the world of vibrant colour paintings and, as before, worked tirelessly to perfect techniques that had been explained to him by his artistic counsel. It is this particular divergence that helped to inform some of his most famous works of the following years, during which he was besieged by
mental illness . Colour also influenced his most significant fixation: portraiture. He employed the vivid use of colours to achieve an existentialistic portrayal of his subjects.
What seems both juxtaposed and tragic is that Van Gogh was still able to explain his final works in such a detached manner, despite simultaneously imploding psychologically. At the time of his suicide he was still working with precision and logic and it is difficult for others to understand these contrasting emotional states.
As well as allowing visitors to peruse some of the finest impressionist works of the
19th century , this exhibition offers us a revealing insight into the mind of a hugely troubled man who, despite his problems, had a surprisingly ordered and serene approach to the works that defined his character. The popular view of Van Gogh is of a man battling with his own demons, but his own account of his life demonstrates that he was a measured, observant and reflective individual who benefited from the analysis and discussion of his work.
Related articles by Zemanta
You think you know van Gogh?
(telegraph.co.uk)
Van Gogh: in his own words
(guardian.co.uk)
Van Gogh’s Letters Show The Artist “Was Not A Hysterical, Irrational Man: He Was Very Methodical”
(huffingtonpost.com)
Van Gogh’s letters show method, not madness
(seattletimes.nwsource.com)
51.516323
-0.056501
Written by William Mathieson
January 21, 2010 at 3:51 pm
Posted in
Art
Tagged with
Add new tag ,
Art ,
Impressionism ,
Mental disorder ,
Paris ,
Paul Gauguin ,
Potato Eaters ,
Van Gogh ,
Vincent van Gogh
Email Subscription
Enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Join 6 other followers
Categories Categories
Select Category
Art  (3)
Cookery  (1)
Entertainment  (6)
Music  (1)
News  (10)
Opinion  (22)
Politics  (15)
Sport  (9)
Uncategorized  (3)
Blogroll
WordPress.com
WordPress.org
Archive
Archive
Select Month
November 2010
October 2010
September 2010
August 2010
July 2010
May 2010
March 2010
February 2010
January 2010
Recent Posts
Just Say No!
A Riposte to Capitalists
Racism in Football Still Exists
Conservative Marxism: A New Ideology?
Euthanasia: Murder or Mercy?
Blog at WordPress.com .
The Journalist v1.9 Theme .
Man About Town
Blog at WordPress.com .
The Journalist v1.9 Theme .
Follow
Follow “Man About Town”
Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.
Build a website with WordPress.com
Add your thoughts here... (optional)
Post to
Cancel