Colony in the middle of Europe
Colony in the middle of Europe
The Székely nation wants to establish the most
complete form of its self-government and self-determination: the
territorial autonomy of Székely-land.
The effort of the Székely to establish an autonomous territory derives
from the fact that for the last one thousand years it had a special
status. Their land has natural borders.
Sunday, April 09, 2006
The Beatles and our
Freedom
Trianon Beatles Lyrics - Free As A Bird (lennon/mccartney/harrison/starkey) Lyrics Free as a bird, It's the next best thing to be free as a bird. Home, home and dry Like a homing bird i fly, as a bird on wings Whatever happened to the life that we once knew Can we really live without each other Where did we lose the touch That seemed to mean so much It always made me feel so Free as a bird, It's the next best thing to be free as a bird. Home home and dry Like a homing bird i fly--a bird on wing Whatever happened to the life that we once knew Always made me feel soooo Free Free as a bird It's the next best thing to be Free as a bird Free as a bird Free as a bird BEATLES and Transylvania We need Freedom! Like a bird, we wanna to live! Freedom! Freedom! Freedom! Freedom! Freedom! Freedom! Freedom! Freedom! Freedom! Freedom! Freedom! Freedom! Freedom! Freedom! Freedom! Freedom! Freedom! Freedom! Freedom! Freedom! Freedom! Freedom! Freedom! Freedom! Freedom! Freedom! Freedom! Freedom! Freedom! Freedom! Freedom! Freedom! Freedom! Freedom! Freedom! Freedom! Freedom! Freedom! Freedom! Freedom! Freedom!
posted by Mikes Kenyere Egyesület @
9:20 PM
2 comments
Friday, February 03, 2006
Transylvania, where is The Szekler /Székely/ Land
Our momepage is : http://mikegy.fw.hu and in : http://mikeskenyere.fw.hu and:http://csillaghaboru.blogspot.com http://rablas.blogspot.com http://igaz.blogspot.com http://szabadsag.blogspot.com http://gyarmat.blogspot.com http://onrend.blogspot.com http://kukac.blogspot.com The Hungarian News From Transylvania in Hungarian Language
posted by Mikes Kenyere Egyesület @
6:34 AM
0 comments
Thursday, February 02, 2006
Our dream: TO BE FREE
We wana to be Free! Like a Horse in the Wind
posted by Mikes Kenyere Egyesület @
11:04 PM
2 comments
Our crown
Our crown
The
crowning
of István, the first Christian king of
Hungary
who was later
canonized
St. Stephen, marks the beginning of Hungarian statehood. The date is variously given as Christmas
1000
or 1 January
1001 . However, the currently venerated crown is not identical to the original one sent to St.
Stephen I of Hungary
("Szent István") by
Pope Sylvester II
in the year 1000. In year 1038 King Stephen I passed away without a direct heir after the tragic early death of his only son, Saint
Prince Imre . On his deathbed the elderly king offered his country into the graces of
Virgin Mary
(declaring her
Patrona Hungariae ) and sent the crown back to the
Vatican
to symbolize this submission. There it hung in a
tunnel , encased in a glass box, venerated until the early 16th century, when it was allegedly stolen at the height of corrupt
papacy .
posted by Mikes Kenyere Egyesület @
11:02 PM
0 comments
Dependency In The Middlemost Of Europe
In the middle of Europe in Romania nowday, there is an area Where are living the Szeklers, oppressioned from the Romanians. They want to have Teritorial Autonomy, but Europe is
blind , nobody want to support theire struggle for
Freedom. In 2006 the Menkind is
indifre nt for to live in Freedom one people. THE AUTONOMY OF
THE SZÉKELY-LAND
In the spirit of Resolution 2003/1334 of the Parliamentary Assembly of
the
Council of Europe, the Székely nation wants to establish the most
complete form of its self-government and self-determination:
the
territorial autonomy of Székely-land.
The effort of the Székely to establish an
autonomous territory
derives
from the fact
that for the last one thousand years it had a special
status. Their land has natural borders. In the East, it is separated from
the historical parts of Romania by the chains of the Carpathian
Mountains, which are traversable through passes only; in the West, it is
separated from the rest of Transylvania by other mountains.
The Székely-land is today
the most neglected, economically intentionally
weakened region of Romania , in spite of the fact that it is endowed with
rich natural resources. During the last half a century Romanians have
deforested huge parts of the land and transported the wood to other parts
of Romania for processing.
This did not allow the development of the
wood- and furniture-industry on the land of the Székely. The game
resources of the forests (beer, dear, boar, lynx, wolf) are under
exploited. Its marvelous landscape rivals that of Switzerland. It is,
together with Iceland and Hungary the richest area of the world in
medicinal springs, thermal waters and hot springs.
The potential of the land is
great , but the
Romanian Government
voluntarily
cripples
it. The roads are bad, the hotels are insufficient,
the thermal establishments are of
minor quality
and the infrastructure is
weak . The enterprises are vegetating, the banks refuse to provide credit
and the functioning of the local administration is at a critical level.
Despite this situation, practically nothing trickles down from the aid
provided by the
E U
posted by Mikes Kenyere Egyesület @
10:34 AM
0 comments
Colony in the middle of Europe
The Székely nation wants to establish the most
complete form of its self-government and self-determination: the
territorial autonomy of Székely-land.
The effort of the Székely to establish an autonomous territory derives
from the fact that for the last one thousand years it had a special
status. Their land has natural borders.
About Me
Name:
Mikes Kenyere Egyesület
Location:
Tatabánya, Komárom-Esztergom, Hungary
Self-determination was, and continues to be, a source of friction between different ethnic groups around the world as each group seeks to define and enhance its position in the world.
We, the Szeklers, from Szekler Land in Transylvania, /which is ocupated of the Romania/ wanna to live in Freedom!
Stop oppression in our country! We need Teritorial Autonomy in our country!
Upon the completion of the above investigation, the SzNC
is planning to present the results to the Romanian Parliament. Currently, the members of this council are being harassed by the Romanian
government. On October 9, 2003 the Romanian police arrested and questioned for several hours Mr. Imre Fodor, Mr. Árpád Andrássy Mr. Lajos Márton and Mr. András Tőkés during the displaying of posters announcing the upcoming meeting of the Szekler National Council...."
View my complete profile
Previous Posts
The Beatles and our
Freedom
Transylvania, where is The Szekler /Székely/ Land
Our dream: TO BE FREE
Our crown
Dependency In The Middlemost Of Europe
Archives