Tet was a boxcar-odds gamble, Mr. Robbins concludes,
a resounding tactical and strategic defeat for the VC and
North Vietnam, itself jarred by air attacks that
pinpointed targets with, some say, only pinprick success.
Lyndon B. Johnson's concept of "limited war" and
"gradualism" backfired, giving the enemy breathing
room. No all-out bombing of the North took place until
late in the war, ordered by Richard M. Nixon, mainly to
free our prisoners of war. Mission accomplished,
finally.
In the war-torn South, unsustainable losses caused
doubters in Hanoi to suggest tossing in the towel. They
were for negotiating with the "lackeys," perhaps to win
by other means, over time, by guerrilla actions, but no
set- piece battles. Dead set against this option was
hawkish Gen. Vo Nguyen Giap, architect of the war,
who had the ear of iconic Chairman Ho Chi Minh,
veteran of the French defeat in his homeland.
Few knew a "peace faction" in Hanoi wanted to quit.
Settlement terms were discussed openly, even in the
closed North Vietnamese government press. But the
hawks in Hanoi's Politburo won: Tet was launched,
perhaps significantly, on Ho Chi Minh's 77th birthday - a
blood-soaked gift for the aging chairman?
Mr. Robbins argues convincingly, as did Mark Moyar in
"Triumph Forsaken: The Vietnam War, 1954-1965," that
media created, perhaps inadvertently, a wrongful
perception of Tet. "Charlie," as then-young GIs called
the elusive VC, and his North Vietnamese comrades
accomplished in Tet, by losing badly, what they could
not do on the battlefield - stirred brewing American antiwar passions. Until then, polls showed widespread if not
deep support for "LBJ's war" - if not for his overly
optimistic generals and his defense secretary, Robert
McNamara, the headstrong ex-auto executive.
Americans' lack of resolve became our Achilles' heel,
Mr. Robbins concludes, for losing a war actually won,
and won repeatedly, on the battlefield. The "peace
movement" stoked by dour war assessments
("unwinnable," was it?) likely prolonged the conflict, a
view held by Mr. Robbins and other Vietnam War
scholars. Significantly, more than half of U.S. combat
deaths occurred after Tet of 1968, when victory, it
seemed, was at hand.
Another casualty, particularly among the military, was
trust in media. Before that, a certain respect was
engendered by "the press." After Vietnam reporting,
mostly from the safety of Saigon hotel balconies, a
distrust, even disgust, among us GIs surrounded our
perception of civilian media. It continues today, a sad
legacy of the Vietnam War, incited again by coverage
from Iraq and now from Afghanistan. Military folks
may well ask, "Whose side are they on?"

South Vietnamese Gen. Nguyen Ngoc Loan, chief of the
national police, fires his pistol into the head of suspected
Viet Cong officer Nguyen Van Lem, also known as Bay
Lop, on a Saigon street, early in the Tet Offensive on
February 1, 1968.
(AP Photo/Eddie Adams)

Led by the avuncular Walter Cronkite, mainstream
media in the Republic of Vietnam "defined battle(s) in a
way that favored the enemy, regardless of the facts," Mr.
Robbins writes tellingly. One military man curtly said,

"The Viet Cong can't beat us, but the New
York Times and CBS-TV can."
Some criticism can be laid off on media as a straw man,
but not all, in this writer's opinion.
Media bias was found in coverage "through choices of
which stories ran and how they were to be edited," Mr.
Robbins writes. Early in Tet, a single defeatist story line
emerged in mainstream media: "Disaster in Vietnam!"
(Shades of war in Iraq 40 years later?)
Journalists "took every opportunity to belittle the U.S.
effort in Vietnam [and] trumpet its failures and
shortcomings," Mr. Robbins writes. A one-sided picture
emerged. To "friendly" media, it seemed as if the U.S.
military could do no right. (Shades of Abu Ghraib prison
in Baghdad?)
For a serious student of this war's brutish realities, Mr.
Robbins' book is a don't-miss read. He tells a story not
wholly revealed, until now, ripping shibboleths about the
Vietnam War. Mr. Robbins plays a key role in a new
revisionist school of military historians. Because, well,
because history relies on facts, on immutable facts, truth
unvarnished and not spun, if we are to learn from it. Mr.
Robbins takes us a giant step in that direction.
------------------------Gary L. Larson is a retired magazine editor and former
U.S. Air Force combat correspondent in Southeast Asia
(1964-65).
[Sent in by MG Jerry Bethke, HHC/2/503d)

2/503d VIETNAM Newsletter / January 2011  Issue 23
Page 21 of 40

MILITARY UPDATE
Historical look at benefits
reveals trends
November 30, 2010

By Tom Philpotts
Proposals to raise VA health care fees
for some veterans in efforts to curb
federal budget deficits, causes some to
conclude that veteran benefits are under attack.
Bernard Rostker, former undersecretary of defense for
personnel and now a senior fellow at the RAND Corp.,
has a more optimistic perspective on how America cares
for and compensates its wartime veterans.

His original premise, he said, was that veterans care and
benefits today reflect a deeper attachment to the force,
the result of moving from a military of conscripts after
the Vietnam War, to a more professional force
comprised of volunteers.
But as he completed volume one, covering the Colonial
era through World War II, Rostker said he found the
premise to be wrong. Much of whats being done today
for veterans of the all-volunteer force is rediscovering
whats been done before.
One exception, he said, are the unprecedented resources
aimed at the invisible mental wounds, reflecting more
medical knowledge, the nature of current wars and an
attitude shift, even since the Persian Gulf War.
Otherwise, the infusion of money and staff for veterans
care and benefits fits an historical pattern, Rostker said,
noting the nations deep appreciation for those who fight
for country and suffer wounds or illness.
Other patterns emerge, Rostker said. Government
support tends to deepen with budget surpluses. Benefits
tend to improve as veterans age, their ranks thin out, and
enhancements become more affordable.

Home from France.WWI

For more than a year Rostker has researched what will
be a two-volume study on the treatment of veterans and
their survivors, going back to before the Revolutionary
War, with a special focus on wounded warrior care.
Staff Sgt. Brian Mading, 29, of Bonita Springs, Fla., and
fellow 173d paratroopers negotiate rough terrain down a
mountain in Afghanistan, taking 10 hours to descend it.

Wars bring change too. The Department of Veterans
Affairs budget has more than doubled since U.S. troops
invaded Afghanistan in October 2001 -- from $51 billion
then to $114 billion in the fiscal years that ended Sept.
30. VA spending is set to climb another 10 percent this
year, to $125 billion.
(continued.)

Persian Gulf War
2/503d VIETNAM Newsletter / January 2011  Issue 23
Page 22 of 40

Vet groups laud a 25 percent rise in VA spending since
President Obama took office. Some contrast that largess
to the Bush administration difficulty in June 2005 when
it had to request a $2 billion supplemental for VA to
meet pressing health care obligations. Some veterans
groups had called the original budget that year
tightfisted, miserly and woefully inadequate.

By 1818, with federal coffers flush with tariff money,
the Department of War gave pensions to anyone who
served in wartime, not just disabled,

Rostker avoids such comparisons. But his research
might inform cost-conscious politicians about the perils
of scrimping on veterans.

Rostker noted too that in 1833 Congress first approved
concurrent receipt  payment of both an invalid
pension and service pension. In 1836, Congress
extended pension eligibility to widows and children of
Revolutionary War veterans, adding enormously to the
cost. The last spouse eligible for that Revolutionary War
pension died in 1906, Rostker said.

President Franklin Roosevelt made such a misstep, he
said, while trying to pull the nation out of the Great
Depression. At his urging, Congress in 1933 passed the
Economy Act, which cut deeply into veterans benefits.
Roosevelt told the American Legion convention the
mere wearing of a uniform in war should not entitle a
veteran, and later his survivors, to a pension for
disabilities incurred after he left service.

Ten years later Congress settled complaints of
Revolutionary War veterans by granting 850 surviving
officers and soldiers full pay for life.

The Civil War
Pension Law of
1862 was viewed as
the most generous
any government had
ever adopted,
Rostker said,
allowing disability
payments for
injuries or ailments
incurred as a direct
result of service. It
Civil War medical treatment
set up a medical
screening system, though reliance on hometown doctors
led to rampant fraud and soon a purging of the rolls,
Rostker said.
Payments to surviving spouse and children could exceed
what veterans got. The last Civil War pensioners lived
well into the 20th Century.
The study will span newer, more controversial periods
including Gen. Omar Bradleys reform of the VA after
World War II, Korea and Vietnam and Gulf War
Syndrome.

President Franklin Roosevelt signs declaration of war
against Japan.

The backlash was strong enough that the following
March, Congress overrode Roosevelts veto and restored
most benefits it had cut a year earlier.
The Continental Congress in 1776 first recognized
responsibility for wounded veterans, voting to authorize
half pay for life to anyone who lost a limb or their ability
to earn a living due to the revolution. By 1805 Congress
approved pay for disabilities developed years after a
veteran left service.

Through history, Rostker said, you see the generosity in
many ways. You see it in the amount of money given, in
the change of eligibility standards. And recently in the
understanding of the mental aspects of conflict.
________
To comment, send e-mail to milupdate@aol.com
or write to Military Update, P.O. Box 231111,
Centreville, VA, 20120-1111
(Reprinted with permission of Tom Philpotts, Military
Update. Photos added to report).
2/503d VIETNAM Newsletter / January 2011  Issue 23
Page 23 of 40

CASPER PILOT STILL HOVERING
AFTER ALL THESE YEARS

Phils mom, Betty, ready for lift-off on her birthday.

Heres a couple pictures, including one of my mother on
her 90th birthday. She really wanted to go up on her
90th, and did real well! Take Care
Phil Johnson, CW02
Casper pilot Phil Johnson and his helio.

Several years ago my brother and I purchased this Army
trainer (TH-55) from an elderly farmer in Eastern
Oklahoma. His doctor had advised him that it was time
to quit flying. Wayne had never been in the service but
he sure loved that little helicopter. We used a flat bed to
get it back to California. I am afraid we'd still be en
route if we flew it back. Leaving the ranch it felt like we
were taking his only child.

Casper Aviation, 69-70

HIS FIRST SALUTE

L-R: Dennis Morris, 2d LT Daniel Morris & Robert Will.

I was invited by Dennis Morris, whom I served with in
C/3/503d in 1969, to the commissioning ceremony of his
son Daniel to exchange the first salute with the new
Lieutenant. Dan was commissioned a 2nd Lt. in the US
Army National Guard.

Heading to new home out west.

We keep it at a small airport near our homes, about 40
miles north of Los Angeles. Several Casper's have been
up in it. Sky Soldier Magazine ran an article of fellow
Casper Pilot Art McBride taking a ride. Since we got
spoiled since Fort Walters, RPM control is everyone's
main problem in the beginning. We all spend way too
much time looking at the instruments. During flight
school you knew by the sound what the RPM was.

Dan was active duty Army for 6 years as a non-com and
rose to the rank of Staff Sgt. He was Jumpmaster
qualified and served in Iraq with the Special Forces.
After separation he attended school at the University of
Florida and the Army ROTC program. He was
commissioned on April 30, 2010 and graduated the
following day with a Bachelors degree in Business
Management. You know his parents are very proud of
him and I was honored to attend.
Robert Will, SGT
C/3/503d
2/503d VIETNAM Newsletter / January 2011  Issue 23
Page 24 of 40

VISIT TO NORMANDY

than in the Huey. I keep in contact with Don Bliss
(Casper CO) mostly on Facebook, he's sure a nice guy.

German gun emplacements at Normandy

I'll try to make a long story short. Several years ago our
Casper group invited Max Cleland to be our keynote
speaker at one of our reunions. He was head of the
Veterans Administration at the time and a Vietnam vet
who lost both his legs. I really felt he gave a great
speech and I think most would agree. Several of us have
stayed in contact with him over the years.

Here are some photos that I think Rangers might be
interested in. What a hell of a job they did at Utah
Beach!! Really set high standards for future Rangers to
follow which I know for a fact you guys did.

Utah Beach seen from gun emplacement

Phil raising American flag at Normandy Cemetery

President Obama appointed Max as Commissioner of
American Battle Monuments Commission. Max
contacted Hans Hooker, superintendent of the Normandy
Cemetery and in turn I was invited to raise the flag.
In Vietnam I was a Chief Warrant Officer with Casper
Platoon during the 69/70 time period all at LZ English.
I ended up logging more time in the LOH Flying Inferno

Could you please let all the Rangers know that if they
ever plan a trip to that area, that they contact me and I
will get them in contact with Hans Hooker. They will
really receive the VIP treatment and it will be something
they will never forget.
(continued.)

2/503d VIETNAM Newsletter / January 2011  Issue 23
Page 25 of 40

I asked Hans if he could show me his grave. In the next
picture his assistant, Greg, is rubbing Omaha beach sand
into the headstone so we can see his name better.

He then places two flags, American and French at the
foot of the headstone. Hans then conducts a very formal
ceremony in which he presents the flags to me to be
delivered to my friend.

The bottom of the flags will always have Omaha sand on
them. He then took us down to the exact location where
the landing craft hit the beach. By the time it was over I
really felt I knew this man -- just amazing.
Phil Johnson
Caspers, 69-70
casperpgj@yahoo.com

Town of Sainte-MereEglise..D-Day battle
Tributes

I thought you guys might find this
kind of interesting.
A friend of mine asked me to take a
picture of his uncles headstone,
John Allison, while at the cemetery.
He was with the 49th Engineer
Group. According to witnesses no
one got off the landing craft, an
artillery shell hit them as the door
was opening.

The early landings, at about 0140 directly on the town,
resulted in heavy casualties for the paratroopers. Some
buildings in town were on fire that night, and they
illuminated the sky, making easy targets of the
descending men. Some were sucked into the fire. Many
hanging from trees and utility poles were shot before
they could cut loose. The German defenders were
alerted.
(continued.)
2/503d VIETNAM Newsletter / January 2011  Issue 23
Page 26 of 40

A famous incident involved paratrooper John Steele of
the 505th PIR, whose parachute caught on the spire of
the town church, and could only observe the fighting
going on below. He hung there limply for two hours,
pretending to be dead, before the Germans took him
prisoner. Steele later escaped from the Germans and
rejoined his division when US troops of the 3rd
Battalion, 505th Parachute Infantry Regiment attacked
the village capturing thirty Germans and killing another
eleven. The incident was portrayed in the movie, The
Longest Day by actor Red Buttons.
Later that morning, about 0500, a force led by Lt.
Colonel Edward C. Krause of the 505th PIR took the
town with little resistance. Apparently the German
garrison was confused and had retired for the rest of the
night. However, heavy German counterattacks began
later in the day and into the next. The lightly-armed
troops held the town until reinforced by tanks from
nearby Utah Beach in the afternoon of 7 June. There
were other notable soldiers in the Allied assault on the
town.

Florida Publishes State Veterans
Benefits Guide
TALLAHASSEE -- The 2011 edition of the Florida
Veterans Benefits Guide is being released by the Florida
Department of Veterans Affairs.
The 24- page guide, sponsored by the Florida Veterans
Foundation, provides information about federal and state
veterans benefits and how to obtain them.
Copies of the guide are being distributed to county
veteran service offices, VA facilities and state colleges
and universities.
An online version of the guide is being posted on the
FDVA website at www.FloridaVets.org.

Today, these events are commemorated by the Airborne
Forces Museum in Place du 6 June in the centre of SteMre-glise and in the village church where a parachute
with an effigy of Private Steele in his Airborne uniform
hangs from the steeple. Bullet holes are still visible in
the church's stone walls. Inside, there are stained glass
windows, with one depicting the Virgin Mary with
paratroopers falling in the foreground.

Though injured and deafened by the church bells,
Private Steele survived his ordeal. He continued to visit
the town throughout his life and was an honorary citizen
of Ste. Mre glise. The tavern, Auberge John Steele,
stands adjacent to the square and maintains his memory
through photos, letters and articles hung on its walls.
Steele died of throat cancer on May 16, 1969
in Fayetteville, NC, just three weeks short of the 25th
anniversary of the D-Day invasion.
2/503d VIETNAM Newsletter / January 2011  Issue 23
Page 27 of 40

~ AFTER ACTION REPORT ~

MARKHAM VALLEY
REPORT OF OPERATIONS
26 OCT 1943
EXTRACT ONLY

APO 929
Headquarters
503d Parachute Infantry
26 Oct. 1943

SUBJECT : Report of Encounter with Enemy Forces.
TO: The Adjutant General, U.S. Army, Washington
D.C.
In compliance with paragraph 10, AR 345-105, dated 18
November 1929, the following report of the Parachute
activities in operation against Japanese forces in the
Markham Valley, 5 September 1943 to 19 September
1943 is hereby submitted.
1. GENERAL: The 503d Parachute Infantry was
employed in conjunction with the 7th Australian
Division and the 9th Australian Division in an
air-sea and ground offensive against Japanese
forces in the Markham Valley, New Guinea 5
September 1943 to 19 September 1943. The
mission of the 503d Parachute Infantry was to
seize the Nadzab E/L Strip and prepare it for use
in landing of Airborne Australian troops and to
close the western inland approaches of the
Markham valley.

At 0825 hours, 5 September, the take-off was
started. The rendezvousing of the eighty-two
(82) transports required forty-five (45) minutes.
When all elements were in formation, the flight
to the drop area was started.
3. FLIGHT AND DROP: The flight was flying
three (3) battalion columns in a formation of six
(6) planes echeloned to the right rear and thirty
(30) seconds between elements. After flying for
one (1) hour, the first check point (Tsili-Tsili)
was passed. At this point, all men were stood up
in the plane and equipment checked. Twelve
(12) minutes later, the Markham River, the
second check point, was passed and the men
stood in the door. In three (3) minutes the
troops were jumping and in four and one-half
(4) minutes, eighty-one (81) transports were
emptied. Each battalion landed on their
assigned jump fields and proceeded immediately
to their assembly areas.

2. DEPARTURE: Due to the splendid cooperation of the Fifth Air Force and the 54th
troop Carrier Wing, all departures were effected
smoothly. All planes had been properly fitted
for parachute drops, viz, doors taped and all
excess accoutrements removed from the interior
prior to arrival of the troops.
The troops arrived at the
airfield and were at their
assigned planes two hours
prior to take-off. During
this period, parachutes and
equipment were fitted on
the individuals. Fifteen
(15) minutes prior to takeoff, all men were seated in
the planes with parachutes
and full equipment on.

Photo inscription: Hurry Up and Wait - Standard
army procedure in effect prior to the Nadzab Jump.
(continued.)
2/503d VIETNAM Newsletter / January 2011  Issue 23
Page 28 of 40

503rd PIR jump onto Nadzab, September 5, 1943

4. GROUND ACTION: The ground
action proceeded as planned. The 1st battalion,
503d Parachute Infantry seized the Nadzab E/L
Strip and commenced its preparation to receive
airborne troops. The 2d and 3d Battalions,
blocked all approaches from the North and East
and established a network of extended
patrolling. Very little activity was encountered.
The 2/2 Australian Pioneer Battalion joined the
1st Battalion at 1800 hour, 5 September 1943, to
take over the preparation of the strip. The
original strip was 1500 feet long and had
remained unused for twelve (12) months. This
strip was improved and extended to 3300 feet.
The 1st battalion then set up a perimeter defense
around the strip to protect the 2/2 Australian
Pioneer Battalion and the natives working with
them. The Airborne troops, in C-47 airplanes,
began to land at 1000 hour, 6 September 1943,
23 hours after the jump was made.
On 8 September 43, the 25th Australian Brigade
had arrived and had replaced our 3d Battalion
who were then withdrawn to the vicinity of the
strip.

The Australians continued their push down the
Valley and on 14 September 43, the 3d Battalion
was sent forward to protect their L of C and to
prevent enemy infiltration to their rear. The
main body of the Japanese Forces had at this
time evacuated LAE and were withdrawing to
the Northwest. This body encountered the 3d
Battalion at 0600 hour, 15 September 43, and
the Battalion immediately set up a defensive
position to prevent their breaking through. A
detailed account of this action is attached herein
as enclosure #2. (not included herewith. Ed)
The vigorous and aggressive patrol action of this
unit resulted in a few encounters with enemy
patrols. The Japanese patrols always withdrew
and in several instances, large amounts of
equipment was abandoned.
(continued.)

2/503d VIETNAM Newsletter / January 2011  Issue 23
Page 29 of 40

Nadzab jump.
(continued.)
2/503d VIETNAM Newsletter / January 2011  Issue 23
Page 30 of 40

b. The casualties were as follows:
Killed in action - Eleven (11)
Wounded in action - Forty-three (43)
Note: This report is included here unedited
from:
http://corregidor.org/BEA503/Reports/Markham
%20Valley/markham_post_report.htm

5. EVACUATION: a. The 1st
Battalion was evacuated by air to Port
Moresby on 14 September 43 after the
arrival of the 25th Australian brigade
with instructions to prepare for
another mission.
b. The 2nd Battalion and regimental
Headquarters Division was evacuated
on 17 September 43.
c. The 3d Battalion was evacuated on
19 September 43.
6. MISCELLANEOUS: a. The
morale of the men was excellent. The
general attitude was one of
determination. The men were
disappointed in that they had been
ordered not to be used were Infantry
could be employed and were required
to remain behind while the
Australians pushed down the Valley.
b. One (1) plane load of fifteen (15)
men did not jump because the crew
chief was taking off the door, it blew
out and was hanging on the side of the
plane. It would have endangered the life of
every man who would have tried to jump.

GDay Mate! Hey buddy!

(All photos courtesy of Daniel MacRaild)
c. One (1) man did not jump as he fainted when
the men were preparing to jump. No man
refused to jump on this mission.
7. RESULT: a. The prescribed mission
assigned to the 503d Parachute Infantry was
carried out most successfully.
2/503d VIETNAM Newsletter / January 2011  Issue 23
Page 31 of 40

YOMITAN DROP ZONE, OKINAWA

I'm attaching a series of pictures of a 2/503 jump on
Yomitan in 1965 (with inscriptions). I served with the
1st Special Forces on Okinawa for almost two years
before joining the 173d. According to my Jump Log, I
made a total of 24 jumps on Yomitan, 14 with the
Special Forces and 10 with 2/503. Of my Special Forces
jumps, three were night jumps and 8 were equipment
jumps. All ten of my 2/503 jumps were with equipment.
Most of the Special Forces jumps were from helicopters
while almost all the 2/503 jumps were from C-130's.
Frankly, I don't remember anything unusual about any of
those jumps. I never had to pull my reserve, never was
in danger of tangling with another trooper in the sky, and
the wind was never high, so I never sprained an ankle or
got dragged. However, on my one off-island jump with
2/503, on Taiwan during Exercise Sky Soldier in
October of '64, the wind was high and I got dragged
clear across the DZ before getting my chute collapsed.
George Dexter, Col. (Ret)
Bn CO, 2/503d

I jumped three times on Yomitan. Never hit the
runway. I think my friend, Jesse Harris, lost his helmet
and hit his head on the runway and was in the hospital
for a while. I remember getting up so damn early and it
was dark when we jumped, at least once. I guess that
was considered a night-jump exercise. It seems to me
the land on either side of the runway was potato fields.
Larry Paladino
B/2/503d

What Id give for a nice sandy Drop Zone. (George Dexter)
(continued.)
2/503d VIETNAM Newsletter / January 2011  Issue 23
Page 32 of 40

The smoke was there too.

(George Dexter)

I had arrived on Okinawa from the 25th in Hawaii. Had
been off jump status for a few years. A NCO was
assigned to give me pre jump. We walked over to the 34
foot tower, he looked at me and said, Do you know
what that is? I said, yes. O.K., he said, we are
finished here. Next thing I know is Im looking down
between my legs at Yomitan. I probably jumped on
Yomitan 10 times -- something to remember.
Ron Thomas
HHC/2/503d

It does bring back memories. I believe Yomitan was a
Jap air field during WWII.
Rick Jerman
HHC/2/503d

I was the Command Sergeant Major (CSM) of 1st Bn,
1st Special Forces Group in Okinawa from Jan 89 to
Apr 91. I made a HALO jump on Yomitan Drop Zone
while stationed there.
Gary Baura, CSM
173d & US Army Special Forces

I can remember we used to have to go out there for rock
stacking duty. We picked up all the coral rocks and put
them in piles so you didn't get injured doing a PLF on
top of them as they were laying all over the place. You

could slip away from the piles for day jumps but night
jumps were Real fun. Then the local farmers would
scatter the rocks all over the place, I guess they didn't
like some of us jumping in their fields that bordered the
DZ. They probably thought if the rocks are scattered we
wouldn't be jumping in...LOL
Right before we went to Vietnam we went out there to
jump from a helicopter that looked like a flying Banana.
Everyone was told to get a vigorous exit to clear the
wheel....well one guy didn't and got hung-up on the
wheel and they tried for quite a while to shake him off.
They finally decided to slowly lower the chopper to the
ground and at about (looked like) 75 feet the wheel
turned and released his chute and he hit like a ton of
bricks -- I can't remember who it was. Anyone recall
who it was?
Chuck Guy
4.2 Motar Platoon HHC/2/503d

I remember well my seventh jump getting dragged down
the runway on that so-called drop zone.
Ron Woodley
A/2/503d
(continued.)
2/503d VIETNAM Newsletter / January 2011  Issue 23
Page 33 of 40

After jump school at Fort
Bragg, with those beaches
they called drop zones, my
graduating class was sent to
the 101st at Fort Campbell.
This was April 1958. When
the buses arrived at the
Campbell repl depl, there
were a bunch of NCO's
(each with a fancy swagger
stick) banging on the sides
of the buses, exhorting us
"cherries" to get the f#@k
off the bus and into
formation. They then
proceeded to inform us that
there had been five jumpers
killed on the "best" drop
zone at Campbell (Yamoto?)
earlier that day! They then
roughly described the
difference between the beach
like DZ's we were trained on
and the horrors we had to
look forward to on the DZ's
at Campbell. They kept
asking if we wanted to quit the Airborne before they
wasted their time by assigning us to our new units. A
few guys took them up on that offer.
I was assigned to Echo Company 1/506th (Easy
Company of WWII and Band of Brothers fame). A few
weeks later I got to make my "Cherry Jump". It was to
be on Los Banos DZ, one of the smallest and roughest at
Campbell. And, because the Air Force was experimenting with some new wind and radar systems, we
would be jumping from 2500 to 3000 feet instead of the
then standard 1250. We were told that because of the
"experimental" nature of this particular drop, we were
not allowed to "slip" our chutes toward the DZ. We
were told to just enjoy the ride and land wherever we
happened to come down. When I exited the aircraft and
looked around, I couldn't see anything that looked like a
drop zone! Nothing but trees below me as far as I could
see! I came down through the trees and luckily got hung
up with my feet just touching the ground. Since I had
not seen anything that looked like a DZ, I gathered my
chute from the trees and started walking in the direction
the planes were flying. Took me about an hour to reach
the assembly area.
Six years later I got to experience the pleasures of
jumping on Yomitan on Okinawa. That was a scary
SOB! Concrete runway and airplane parking spaces.

Love that concrete.

(George Dexter)

And only about 8 seconds long before you would end up
on radio towers or in the South China Sea. I don't
remember exactly how many times I jumped in the year
I was on Okinawa, but, I do know I hit hat runway
twice! Does anyone believe it is actually possible to
make a perfect parachute landing fall? I did it the first
time I hit that runway! Balls of the feet. Calf. Thigh.
Buttock and Pushup Muscle. Never even felt the ground
until I was running around the canopy to collapse it!
The second time I hit the runway was even better. When
I realized there was no way I could avoid it, I also
realized that the wind was from my rear and not too
strong. I was able to make a standing/running landing
and didn't even fall down.
That's my story about Yomitan, and I'm sticking to it!
Jack Schimpf
B/2/503d

Hardest DZ I ever jumped. Coral would cut you up. I
preferred water jumps to landing on that damn runway.
Bob Clark
1st, 5th & 7th Special Forces
(RTO Smittys brother)

2/503d VIETNAM Newsletter / January 2011  Issue 23
Page 34 of 40

NO HIDING PLACE FROM NEW
U.S. ARMY RIFLES THAT USE
RADIO-CONTROLLED SMART
BULLETS
Weapon hailed as a game-changer that can fire up and
over barriers and down into trenches.
Soldiers will start using them in Afghanistan later this
month.
The U.S. army is to begin using a futuristic rifle that
fires radio-controlled 'smart' bullets in Afghanistan for
the first time, it has emerged.
The XM25 rifle uses bullets that can be programmed to
explode when they have travelled a set distance,
allowing enemies to be targeted no matter where they are
hiding.
The rifle also has a range of 2,300 feet making it
possible to hit targets
which are well out of
the reach of
conventional rifles.
The XM25 is being
developed specially for
the U.S. army and will
be deployed with troops
later this month, it was
revealed today.
The XM25 Counter
Defilade Target
Engagement System
has a range of roughly
2,300 feet - and is to be deployed in Afghanistan this
month.
The rifle's gun sight uses a laser rangefinder to
determine the exact distance to the obstruction, after
which the soldier can add or subtract up to 3 meters from
that distance to enable the bullets to clear the barrier and
explode above or beside the targets.
Soldiers will be able to use them to target snipers hidden
in trenches rather than calling in air strikes.
The 25-millimetre round contains a chip that receives a
radio signal from the gun sight as to the precise distance
to the target.
Lt. Col. Christopher Lehner, project manager for the
system, described the weapon as a game-changer that
other nations will try and copy.

He expects the Army to buy 12,500 of the XM25 rifles
this year, enough for every member of the infantry and
Special Forces.
Lehner told Fox News: With this weapon system, we
take away cover [from enemy targets] forever. Tactics
are going to have to be rewritten. The only thing we can
see [enemies] being able to do is run away.
Experts say the rifle means that enemy troops will no
longer be safe if they take cover.
The XM25 appears to be the perfect weapon for streetto-street fighting that troops in Afghanistan have to
engage in, with enemy fighters hiding behind walls and
only breaking cover to fire occasionally.
The weapon's laser finder would work out how far away
the enemy was and then the U.S. soldier would add one
meter using a button near the trigger. When fired, the
explosive round would carry exactly one meter past the
wall and explode with the force of a hand grenade above
the Taliban fighter.
The army's project
manager for new
weapons, Douglas
Tamilio, said: ''This
is the first leapahead technology
for troops that we've
been able to develop
and deploy.
A patent granted to
the bullet's maker,
Alliant
Techsystems,
reveals that the chip
can calculate how far it has travelled.
Mr. Tamilio said: You could shoot a Javelin missile,
and it would cost 43,000. These rounds will end up
costing 15.50 apiece. Theyre relatively cheap.
Lehner added: This is a game-changer. The enemy has
learned to get cover, for hundreds if not thousands of
years. Well, they can't do that anymore. We're taking
that cover from them and there's only two outcomes:
We're going to get you behind that cover or force you to
flee.
The rifle will initially use high-explosive rounds, but its
makers say that it might later use versions with smaller
explosive charges that aim to stun rather than kill.
2/503d VIETNAM Newsletter / January 2011  Issue 23
Page 35 of 40

Combat Related Compensation
[For 20 year military or military/civil service
retirees only]
Combat-Related Special Compensation (CRSC) for
certain disabled Uniformed Service Retirees has been
codified in law at section 1413a, Title 10, United States
Code.
The law was enacted December 2, 2002, by Section 636
of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal
Year 2003 (Public Law 107-314, December 2, 2002).
CRSC provides compensation to certain retirees with
combat-related disabilities that qualify under the criteria
set forth in the law. For additional information
regarding implementation, eligibility and application,
visit the Department of Defense (DOD) website at:
https://www.dmdc.osd.mil/crsc/
Concurrent Disability Pay:
Public Law 108-136, the National Defense
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2004, contained a
provision to restore the retired pay currently deducted
from retirees accounts due to their receipt of
Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) compensation
(currently reflected on Retiree Account Statements as the
VA waiver).
This restoration of retired pay is known as Concurrent
Disability Pay (CDP). It is applicable to all retirees who
have a VA-rated, service-connected disability of 50% or
higher with the exception of disability retirees with less
than 20 years of service and retirees who have combined
their military time and civil service time to qualify for a
civil service retirement. The phased-in restoration will
begin January 1, 2004, with the first payments arriving
February 2, 2004. CDP will be direct deposited or
mailed based on retirees current retired pay and VA
system information. The rates will automatically
increase or decrease based on the percentage of
disability reported by the VA: If rated at 100%, $750.00.
If rated at 90%, $500.00. If rated at 80%, $350.00. If
rates at 70%, $250.00. If rated at 60%, $125.00. If rated
at 50%, $100.00. These amounts will increase each year
until January of 2014 when eligible members will
receive their full retired pay entitlement and their VA
disability compensation with no reduction.
Please note that CDP pay cannot exceed gross retired
pay. For example, a retiree who is rated at 100% as
indicated above but whose gross retired pay is only
$631.00, will only have $631.00 restored. For more
details, visit:
http://www.warms.vba.va.gov/regs/38CFR/BOOKB/
PART3/S3_750.DOC

VA Processes First Claims for New
Agent Orange Presumptives
New Program Speeds Approval for Vietnam Veterans
WASHINGTON  The Department of Veterans Affairs
(VA) has decided more than 28,000 claims in the first
six weeks of processing disability compensation
applications from Vietnam Veterans with diseases
related to exposure to the herbicide Agent Orange.
With new technology and ongoing improvements, we
are quickly removing roadblocks to processing
benefits, said Secretary of Veterans Affairs Eric K.
Shinseki. We are also conducting significant outreach
to Vietnam Veterans to encourage them to submit their
completed application for this long-awaited benefit.
VA published a final regulation on Aug. 31 that makes
Veterans who served in the Republic of Vietnam and
who have been diagnosed with Parkinsons disease,
ischemic heart disease, or a B-cell (or hairy-cell)
leukemia eligible for health care and disability
compensation benefits. With the expiration of the
required 60-day congressional review on Oct. 30, VA is
now able to process these claims.
Vietnam Veterans covered under the new policy are
encouraged to file their claims through a new VA Web
portal at www.fasttrack.va.gov. Vietnam Veterans are
the first users of this convenient automated claims
processing system.
If treated for these diseases outside of VAs health
system, it is important for Veterans to gather medical
evidence from their non-VA physicians. VA has made it
easy for physicians to supply the clinical findings needed
to approve the claim through the new Web portal. These
medical forms are also available at
www.vba.va.gov/disabilityexams.
The portal guides Veterans through Web-based menus to
capture information and medical evidence required for
faster claims decisions. While the new system currently
is limited to these three disabilities, usage will expand
soon to include claims for other conditions.
VA has begun collecting data that recaps its progress in
processing claims for new Agent Orange benefits at:
www.vba.va.gov/VBA/agentorange/reportcard/index.
html.
[Sent in by Roger Dick, C/2/503d)

2/503d VIETNAM Newsletter / January 2011  Issue 23
Page 36 of 40

COWBOYS 1965-66
Chopper Soul

~ 3rd Batt Coins & Medallions ~

I would like to take this opportunity to clear up any
misunderstanding about coins versus Medallions.
Because of the interest in the first batch of 3rd Batt coins
I decided to fix one side of it and produce another 100
3rd Batt coins with the Bn hash marks on the front
flash. The back remains the same with only one hash
mark and it is still $10.00 plus $2.00 shipping.
I have about 30 of those coins remaining.
The medallion is in the shape of the WWII 503rd patch.
It is 2.5" long and 2" wide and 0.23 thick.
Because of its size and number of colors it cost more to
produce so I raised the price to 20.00 plus 3.00 shipping.
I know it is a bit expensive but my goal has not been to
make money on either the coin or the medallion. Rather
to give all the profits away. I have done that with the
3rd Batt coins and will continue to do so till all are gone.
Some fellow paratroopers have bought coins to donate
them to other paratroopers, some have donated money to
the poor and I reserved some to just GIVE away.
I plan to do the same with the 503rd Medallion. All
profits will go to the 173d Society and Foundation and to
a local Food bank. That is why I priced the Medallion at
20 bucks.
If I do not sell them then I will have a very large
SINGLE Medallion collection.
In ANY event I cannot tell you how much joy I have
received in this whole process. The men and women I
have met make it all worthwhile.
Warm Regards, AATW

Ranger Rudy Teodosio
#49 1970-71 Team
Charlie and 27 year
military career, sent me
information on the 173d
ABN support chopper
from the 335th Assault
Helicopter Group called
Cowboys (1965-66).
The information on the
chopper was first sent to
us by Bill Spies
(Patrolling page 51
lower right & 52 ).
The organization
responsible for this is
the Worldwide Rangers
Organization - check
them out!
We need more of such items
Ranger twin
restored for the public and
veterans to look at as our era of Vietnam fighting must
never be forgotten.
HEY, Id like to buy a non-flying Huey and place it on
my front yard and sit in the door having my mocha -coffee and chocolate mixed together as we did in the
field / radio-relays and in our hoochs.
Going to find out when the bird will be officially
donated to the museum, at which point the Long Range
Reconnaissance Patrol members of our Unit who rode
this bird can be there as the pilots and our door-gunner
have been located.
Thought that all of you who will receive this will enjoy
reading about chopper SOUL.
RLTW
Robert 'twin' Henriksen
173d Special Ops Unit Director
(Lrrp + Lrp + Rgr + Lrs)

Anet 247 - Worldwide Army Ranger's Vietnam
helicopter spreads "good cheer"

Paul Fisher, LTC (Ret)
HHC/3/503d

Cell (908) 489-0366
Home (732) 542-1598
Email: fisherppd@att.net

2/503d VIETNAM Newsletter / January 2011  Issue 23
Page 37 of 40

2/503d VIETNAM Newsletter / January 2011  Issue 23
Page 38 of 40

A SALUTE AND FAREWELL TO OUR SKY SOLDIER & RANGER BROTHERS
WHO MADE THEIR FINAL JUMP THIS PAST YEAR

Nicholas S. Cook

Ronald Allen Tucker

Frank Garcia

Dick Eckert

John Wills

Ruben Dimas, Sr.

John Nix

Louis Robert Fastuca

Butch Clark

Joseph Whiting Dimock, II

(Sadly, continued.)

David Charles Dolby

Vinson B. Adkinson, III

2/503d VIETNAM Newsletter / January 2011  Issue 23
Page 39 of 40

Terry Lee Robertson

Robert Miller

Raymond C. Alcaraz, Jr.

Matthew Eric George

Lance H. Vogeler

James A. Thorne

James Anthony Page

Lucas Tyler Beachnaw

It is foolish and wrong to mourn the men
who died. Rather we should thank God
that such men lived.
George S. Patton

Al Ealey

2/503d VIETNAM Newsletter / January 2011  Issue 23
Page 40 of 40

