The Journey: CONFIRMATION NAME OF DEANNA ALVARADO
skip to main
|
skip to sidebar
Wednesday, January 6, 2010
CONFIRMATION NAME OF DEANNA ALVARADO
DEANNA ANNE ALVARADO Patron Saint: ST. ANNE Anne (Hebrew, Hannah, grace; also spelled Ann, Anne, Anna) is the traditional name of the mother of the
Blessed Virgin Mary . All our information concerning the names and lives of Sts.
Joachim
and Anne, the
parents
of
Mary , is derived from
apocryphal literature , the Gospel of the Nativity of Mary, the Gospel of Pseudo-Matthew and the Protoevangelium of James. Though the earliest form of the latter, on which directly or indirectly the other two seem to be based, goes back to about A.D. 150, we can hardly accept as beyond
doubt
its various statements on its sole authority. In the Orient the Protoevangelium had great authority and portions of it were read on the
feasts
of
Mary
by the Greeks,
Syrians ,
Copts , and
Arabians . In the Occident, however, it was rejected by the
Fathers of the Church
until its contents were incorporated by
Jacobus de Voragine
in his "Golden Legend" in the thirteenth century. From that time on the story of St. Anne spread over the West and was amply developed, until St. Anne became one of the most popular
saints
also of the
Latin Church . The Protoevangelium gives the following account: In
Nazareth
there lived a
rich
and
pious
couple, Joachim and Hannah. They were childless. When on a
feast day
Joachim presented himself to offer sacrifice in the temple, he was repulsed by a certain
Ruben , under the pretext that men without offspring were unworthy to be admitted. Whereupon Joachim, bowed down with grief, did not return home, but went into the mountains to make his plaint to
God
in solitude. Also Hannah, having learned the reason of the prolonged absence of her husband, cried to the Lord to take away from her the curse of sterility, promising to dedicate her child to the service of
God . Their
prayers
were heard; an
angel
came to Hannah and said: "Hannah, the Lord has looked upon thy tears; thou shalt conceive and give birth and the fruit of thy womb shall be
blessed
by all the world". The
angel
made the same promise to Joachim, who returned to his wife. Hannah gave birth to a daughter whom she called Miriam (Mary). Since this story is apparently a reproduction of the
biblical
account of the conception of
Samuel , whose mother was also called Hannah, even the name of the mother of
Mary
seems to be
doubtful . The renowned
Father John of Eck
of
Ingolstadt , in a
sermon
on St. Anne (published at
Paris
in 1579), pretends to
know
even the names of the
parents
St. Anne. He calls them Stollanus and Emerentia. He says that St. Anne was born after Stollanus and Emerentia had been childless for twenty years; that
St. Joachim
died soon after the presentation of Mary in the temple; that St. Anne then married
Cleophas , by whom she became the mother of
Mary Cleophae
(the wife of Alphaeus and mother of the
Apostles
James the Lesser, Simon and
Judas , and of Joseph the Just); after the death of Cleophas she is said to have married Salomas, to whom she bore Maria Salomae (the wife of Zebedaeus and mother of the Apostles John and James the Greater). The same spurious legend is found in the writings of
Gerson
(Opp. III, 59) and of many others. There arose in the sixteenth century an animated controversy over the marriages of St. Anne, in which
Baronius
and
Bellarmine
defended her monogamy. The Greek
Menaea
(25 July) call the
parents
of St. Anne Mathan and Maria, and relate that Salome and Elizabeth, the mother of
St. John the Baptist , were daughters of two sisters of St. Anne. According to Ephiphanius it was maintained even in the fourth century by some enthusiasts that St. Anne conceived without the action of man. This
error
was revived in the West in the fifteenth century. (Anna concepit per osculum Joachimi.) In 1677 the
Holy See
condemned the
error
of Imperiali who taught that St. Anne in the conception and birth of
Mary
remained
virgin
( Benedict XIV , De Festis, II, 9). In the Orient the cult of St. Anne can be traced to the fourth century.
Justinian I
(d. 565) had a church dedicated to her. The canon of the Greek Office of St. Anne was composed by
St. Theophanes
(d. 817), but older parts of the Office are ascribed to Anatolius of Byzantium (d. 458). Her
feast
is celebrated in the East on the 25th day of July, which may be the day of the dedication of her first church at Constantinople or the anniversary of the arrival of her supposed
relics
in Constantinople (710). It is found in the oldest
liturgical
document of the
Greek Church , the Calendar of Constantinople (first half of the eighth century). The Greeks keep a collective feast of St. Joachim and St. Anne on the 9th of September. In the
Latin Church
St. Anne was not
venerated , except, perhaps, in the south of
France , before the thirteenth century. Her picture,
painted
in the eighth century, which was found lately in the church of Santa Maria Antiqua in
Rome , owes its origin to Byzantine influence. Her feast, under the influence of the "Golden Legend", is first found (26 July) in the thirteenth century, e.g. at
Douai
(in 1291), where a foot of St. Anne was
venerated
(feast of translation, 16 September). It was introduced in
England
by
Urban VI , 21 November, 1378, from which time it spread all over the
Western Church . It was extended to the universal
Latin Church
in 1584. The supposed
relics
of St. Anne were brought from the Holy Land to Constantinople in 710 and were still kept there in the
church
of St. Sophia in 1333. The
tradition
of the church of Apt in southern
France
pretends that the body of St. Anne was brought to Apt by St. Lazarus, the friend of
Christ , was hidden by St. Auspicius (d. 398), and found again during the reign of
Charlemagne
(feast, Monday after the
octave
of
Easter ); these
relics
were brought to a magnificent
chapel
in 1664 (feast, 4 May). The head of St. Anne was kept at
Mainz
up to 1510, when it was
stolen
and brought to Düren in Rheinland. St. Anne is the
patroness
of Brittany. Her
miraculous
picture (feast, 7 March) is
venerated
at Notre Dame d'Auray,
Diocese of Vannes . Also in
Canada , where she is the principal patron of the
province of Quebec , the shrine of
St. Anne de Beaupré
is well known. St. Anne is patroness of
women
in labour; she is represented holding the
Blessed Virgin Mary
in her lap, who again carries on her arm the child
Jesus . She is also patroness of miners, Christ being compared to gold, Mary to silver. Saint Anne (also Ann or Anna, from Hebrew Hannah חַנָּה or Channah‎, meaning "favor" or "grace.") of
David 's house and line, was the mother of the
Virgin Mary
and grandmother of
Jesus Christ
according to
Christian
and
Islamic
tradition. Her name Anne is the Greek rendering of the Hebrew name
Hannah . Mary's mother is not named in the
canonical
Gospels
and
Qu'ran . According to the
apocryphal
Gospel of James , Anne and her husband
Joachim , after years of childlessness, were visited by an
angel
who told them that they would conceive a child. Anne promised to dedicate the child to God's service. Joachim and Anne are believed to have given Mary to the service of the
Second Temple
when the girl was three years old. Anne is the
patron saint
of
Quebec ,
Brittany , the
Mi'kmaq
peoples, women in
labor , and
miners . The story bears a superficial similarity to that of the birth of
Samuel,
whose mother Hannah had also been childless. Although Anne's cult receives little attention in the
Western church
prior to the late 12th century, dedications to Anne in the
Eastern church
occur as early as the 6th century. In the Eastern Orthodox tradition, Anne is ascribed the title Forbear of God, and both the
Birth of Mary
and the
Dedication of Mary to the Temple
are celebrated as two of the
Twelve Great Feasts . In Western
iconography , Anne may be recognised by her depiction in
red
robe and
green
mantle, often holding a book. Images may also be found depicting
Anne holding a small Mary who in turn holds an infant Christ
(see gallery). Such trinitarian representations mirror similar depictions of the
Trinity , and were sometimes produced as pairs. Varying theologians have believed either that Joachim was Anne's only husband, or that she was married thrice. Ancient belief, attested to by a sermon of
St John Damascene , was that Anne married once. In late medieval times, legend held that Anne was married three times, first to Joachim, then to
Clopas , and finally to a man named Solomas, and that each marriage produced one daughter: Mary, mother of Jesus,
Mary of Clopas , and
Mary Salomae , respectively.The sister of Saint Anne was
Sobe
who was the mother of
Saint Elizabeth . Similarly, in the 4th century, and then much later in the 15th century, a belief arose that Mary was born of Anne by
virgin birth . Those believers included the 16th century mystic
Valentine Weigel
who claimed Anne conceived Mary by the power of the
Holy spirit . This belief was also condemned as an error by the Catholic Church in 1677. Instead, the Church teaches that Mary was conceived in the normal fashion, but that she was miraculously preserved from
original sin
in order to make her fit to bear Christ. The conception of Mary free from original sin is termed the
Immaculate Conception —which is frequently confused with the
Virgin Birth
or
Incarnation
of Christ. The iconographic subject of Joachim and Anne
The Meeting at the Golden Gate
fitted both views, and was a regular component of artistic cycles of the " Life of the Virgin ". The couple meet at the "Golden Gate" of
Jerusalem
and embrace. They are aware of Anne's pregnancy, of which they have been separately informed by an
archangel . For those believing in the virgin birth of Mary, this moment stood for her conception, and the feast was celebrated on the same day as the Immaculate Conception. The
Birth of Mary , the
Presentation of Mary
and the
Marriage of the Virgin
were usual components of cycles of the Life of the Virgin in which Anne is normally shown. Anne is never shown as present at the
Nativity of Christ , but is frequently shown with the infant Christ in various subjects. She is normally shown as present at the
Presentation of Jesus at the Temple
and the
Circumcision of Christ . There was a tradition that she went (separately) to Egypt and rejoined the
Holy Family
after their
Flight to Egypt . Anne is not seen with the adult Christ, so was regarded as having died during the youth of Jesus. Anne is also shown as the matriarch of the
Holy Kinship , the extended family of Jesus, a popular subject in late medieval Germany. In modern devotions, Anne and her husband are invoked for protection for the unborn. The feast day of Anne is 26 July (Western calendar) and 25 July (Eastern calendar). [ edit ] Patronage Saint Anne is patron of the following places:
Brittany ,
Castelbuono ,( Sicily ,
Italy );
Canada ;
France ;
Fasnia ;
Brittany ;
Quebec ;
Adjuntas, Puerto Rico ;
Norwich, Connecticut ;
Santa Ana Pueblo ;
Seama, New Mexico ;
Taos, New Mexico ;
Chiclana de la Frontera , Spain;
Marsaskala ;
Tudela, Navarre ;
Philippines ;
Santana (São Paulo) ; (a neighbourhood of São Paulo,) and
South Vietnam . She is also the Patron Saint of housewives, grandmothers, cabinet makers, and women in labor. [ edit ] Islamic view Though unnamed in the
Qur'an , Islamic tradition identifies Anne (Hannah) as the mother of
Mary . The daughter of Faqud, Hannah was childless until old age. She saw a bird feeding its young while sitting in the shade of a tree which made her want children of her own. She prayed for a child and eventually conceived. Her husband, called Imran by the
Qu'ran , died before the child was born. Expecting the child to be male, Hannah vowed to dedicate him to isolation and the service in the Temple. However, Hannah delivered a daughter whom she named Mary. Her words after the birth of Mary reflect her status as a great mystic. Hannah wanted a son, but she believed that the daughter was God's gift to her.
Posted by
sjpm_the_journey
at
3:35 PM
No comments:
Post a Comment
Newer Post
Older Post
Home
Subscribe to:
Post Comments (Atom)
PHOTO GALLERY
Confirmation Preparation Program in Pictures
St. Joseph Parish Community Events
Loading...
THE YOUNG PILGRIMS OF THE JOURNEY
One’s destination is never a place but rather a new way of looking at things. We all have heard that saying that life is a journey but what does this mean to you?
You may also have heard that we are a pilgrim people and that our Church is a pilgrim Church. Again, what does this mean? Ultimately this means that we are all works in progress. We are not perfect. We still have much to learn and to unlearn. As Christians, we believe in the power and guidance of the Spirit who illumines us. God is always a companion on the journey even if we do not know it. God is our teacher, guide and guardian. Living life as a journey does not necessarily mean that you have to go anywhere physically. Going about one’s daily life and being present to the people, places and things you naturally encounter is how most of us grow and learn. The key is to allow ourselves to be changed by those experiences. We need to be humble enough to admit that we do not know everything in order to be open to new possibilities. The Confirmation Preparation Program here at St. Joseph Parish in Maplewood, New Jersey aims at leading the the young Christian toward a more intimate union with Christ and a more lively familiarity with the Holy Spirit in order to be more capable of assuming the apostolic responsibilities of Christian life. Thank you for choosing to participate in the Confirmation Preparation Program at St. Joseph Parish. Your willingness to commit yourself to completing the program and receiving the sacrament of Confirmation convey to the entire faith community how much you value both your faith and your community. Your faith formation throughout the Confirmation preparation program will both assist you in identifying the gifts and talents you possess and challenge you to put these gifts and talents to use in our community. You will be invited to take responsibility for your own faith formation, as well as to assist others in that same endeavor. This blog contains some information concerning the theology of Confirmation, an overview of the program, program expectations and requirements, as well as other sources of information intended to be both helpful and useful for you as a candidate for Confirmation. This blogspot is interactive so you can leave your comments, suggestions and messages. However, this does not take away the importance of direct and open communication with us. FR.
MANOLO
USEFUL LINKS
OPEN DOORS - St.Joseph Parish Ministries, Events and Activities
ST. JOSEPH PARISH WEBSITE
FR. MANOLO'S BLOG
Blog Archive
►
2011
(2)
►
February
(2)
▼
2010
(23)
►
September
(4)
►
February
(2)
▼
January
(17)
SUNDAY, JANUARY 10 CONFIRMATION SESSION
CONFIRMATION NAME OF DAVID ACEVEDO
CONFIRMATION NAME OF DEANNA ALVARADO
CONFIRMATION NAME OF ZACHARY ARGUELLES
CONFIRMATION NAME OF SIERRA BASTIEN
CONFIRMATION NAME OF BRANDON BEST
CONFIRMATION NAME OF ASHLEY CARR
CONFIRMATION NAME OF DYLAN DOWD
CONFIRMATION NAME OF BRIAN DURKIN
CONFIRMATION NAME OF EMMALINE ETIENNE-DAMAS
CONFIRMATION NAME OF ANNIE HILTON
CONFIRMATION NAME OF LUKE KOSOWATZ
CONFIRMATION NAME OF GREGORY KUREK
CONFIRMATION NAME OF TARYNN LYNN
CONFIRMATION NAME OF UGONNA MBAGWU
CONFIRMATION NAME OF SARAH O'CONNOR
CONFIRMATION NAME OF YARLIE ROSE PIERRE-LOUIS
►
2009
(62)
►
December
(1)
►
November
(2)
►
September
(6)
►
August
(1)
►
May
(20)
►
March
(4)
►
February
(22)
►
January
(6)
►
2008
(36)
►
December
(2)
►
November
(4)
►
October
(5)
►
September
(2)
►
July
(23)
About Me
sjpm_the_journey
View my complete profile