The Papists - Could you outline special of the differences...
The Papists
Apologetics and Evengelization
The go-to blog for questions regarding the Catholic faith where reason will be used to affirm that which we know by faith.
Ask us a question!
Popular tags:
Abortion
Catholic Feminism
General Advice
General Doctrine Prayers
Sacraments
Saints
Science and Reason
Scriptures Sexuality and Chastity
Contributor Introductions
Browse by Author
approximatelyinfinity
¡Viva Cristo Rey!
bannerofthecross
We're More Than Flesh and Bone
closertothelost
MANALIVE
heartallonfire
Verdictless Life
heartlessmuffineater
Intellect & Romance
mariaishismiddlename
Jesus is a Hepcat
nonjeneregrette
radical notions
porcelainstrength
For when I am weak, then I am strong.
randomnoisegenerator
Reductio ad Absurdum
Ask Away
August 21, 2012
6:17 pm
Anonymous:   Could you outline special of the differences between eastern religions and Catholic methods of meditation or contemplation?
Well, I’m not really well read in Eastern styles of meditation, (nor really on Catholic methods either.)
I did find this on wikipedia which you might find interesting.
Christian Meditation
is a term for form of prayer in which a structured attempt is made to get in touch with and deliberately reflect upon the revelations of
God . [ 84 ]
The word meditation comes from the Latin word
meditari , which means to concentrate. Christian meditation is the process of deliberately focusing on specific thoughts (e.g. a
biblical
scene involving
Jesus
and the
Virgin Mary ) and reflecting on their meaning in the context of the love of God. [ 85 ]
Christian meditation contrasts with cosmic styles of eastern meditation as radically as the portrayal of
God the Father
in the Bible contrasts with discussions of
Krishna
or
Brahman
in Indian teachings. [ 86 ]
Unlike eastern meditations, most styles of Christian meditations do not rely on the repeated use of
mantras , but are intended to stimulate thought and deepen meaning. Christian meditation aims to heighten the personal relationship based on the love of God that marks Christian communion. [ 87 ] [ 88 ]
In
Aspects of Christian meditation , the
Catholic Church
warned of potential incompatibilities in mixing Christian and eastern styles of meditation. [ 89 ]
In 2003, in
A Christian reflection on the New Age
the
Vatican
announced that the “Church avoids any concept that is close to those of the New Age”. [ 90 ] [ 91 ] [ 92 ]
From the little I know, it seems that Eastern religions put the emphasis on meditation as a way one can become more in touch with themselves and the universe while Catholic meditation seems more geared towards contemplation on scriptural or theological questions about the nature of God, creation, and its relation.
Filed under:   Nikosnature ,   Catholic ,   ThePapists ,   Hinduism ,   Christianity , .
∞
Next post
Previous
View the discussion thread
"Well Liked"
by
Peter Vidani .
For
Tumblr .
© 2012–2015 The Papists