Củ Chi tunnels and Vinh Moc tunnels | 2eyeswatching
2eyeswatching
Unique By Nature
«
RAILROAD FOUND ON MARS?
MINOAN CIVILIZATION
»
Củ Chi tunnels and Vinh Moc tunnels
CỦ CHI TUNNELS
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Part of the tunnel complex at Củ Chi, this tunnel has been made wider and taller to accommodate tourists.
The tunnels of Củ Chi  are an immense network of connecting underground tunnels located in the Cu Chi district of Ho Chi Minh City (Saigon), Vietnam, and are part of a much larger network of tunnels that underlie much of the country. The Củ Chi tunnels were the location of several military campaigns during the Vietnam War, and were the Viet Cong’s base of operations for the Tet Offensive in 1968.
The tunnels were used by Viet Cong guerrillas as hiding spots during combat, as well as serving as communication and supply routes, hospitals, food and weapon caches and living quarters for numerous guerrilla fighters. The tunnel systems were of great importance to the Viet Cong in their resistance to American forces, through which they secured American withdrawal from Vietnam and ultimate military success.
Life in the tunnels
American soldiers used the term “Black echo” to describe the conditions within the tunnels. For the Viet Cong, life in the tunnels was difficult. Air, food and water were scarce and the tunnels were infested with ants, poisonous centipedes, scorpions, spiders and vermin. Most of the time, guerrillas would spend the day in the tunnels working or resting and come out only at night to scavenge for supplies, tend their crops or engage the enemy in battle. Sometimes, during periods of heavy bombing or American troop movement, they would be forced to remain underground for many days at a time. Sickness was rampant among the people living in the tunnels, especially malaria, which was the second largest cause of death next to battle wounds. A captured Viet Cong report suggests that at any given time half of a  PLAF  unit had malaria and that “one-hundred percent had intestinal parasites of significance”.
U.S. campaigns against the tunnels
A trap door on the jungle floor leads down into the Củ Chi tunnels. Closed and camouflaged, it is almost undetectable.
The camouflaged trap door, now open.
The tunnels of Củ Chi did not go completely unnoticed by U.S. officials. They recognized the advantages that the Viet Cong held with the tunnels, and accordingly launched several major campaigns to search out and destroy the tunnel system. Among the most important of these were  Operation Crimp  and  Operation Cedar Falls .
Operation Crimp began on January 7, 1966, with  B-52  bombers dropping 30-ton loads of high explosive onto the region of Củ Chi, effectively turning the once lush jungle into a pockmarked moonscape. Eight thousand troops from the  U.S. 1st Infantry Division , 173rd Airborne Brigade , and the  1st Battalion, Royal Australian Regiment  combed the region looking for any clues of PLAF activity.
The operation was, for the most part, unsuccessful. On the occasion when troops found a tunnel, they would often underestimate its size. Rarely would anyone be sent in to search the tunnels, as it was so hazardous. The tunnels were often rigged with explosive booby traps  or  punji stake  pits. The two main responses in dealing with a tunnel opening were to flush the entrance with gas or water to force the guerrillas into the open, or to toss a few grenades down the hole and “crimp” off the opening. The clever design of the tunnels along with the strategic use of trap doors and air filtration systems rendered American technology ineffective.
However, an Australian specialist engineering troop, 3 Field Troop, under the command of Captain Sandy MacGregor did venture into the tunnels which they searched exhaustively for four days, finding ammunition, radio equipment, medical supplies and food as well as signs of considerable Viet Cong presence. One of their number, Corporal Bob Bowtell died when he became trapped in a tunnel that turned out to be a dead end. However the Australians pressed on and revealed, for the first time, the immense military significance of the tunnels. At an International Press Conference in Saigon shortly after Operation Crimp, MacGregor referred to his men as Tunnel Ferrets. An American journalist, having never heard of ferrets, used the term Tunnel Rats and it stuck. Following his troop’s discoveries in Cu Chi, Sandy MacGregor was awarded a Military Cross.
From its mistakes, and the Australians’ discoveries, U.S. command realized that they needed a new way to approach the dilemma of the tunnels. A general order was issued by General Williamson, the Allied Forces Commander in South Vietnam, to all Allied forces that tunnels had to be properly searched whenever they were discovered. They began training an elite group of volunteers in the art of tunnel warfare, armed only with a gun, a knife, a flashlight and a piece of string. These specialists, commonly known as “ tunnel rats ”, would enter a tunnel by themselves and travel inch-by-inch cautiously looking ahead for booby traps or cornered PLAF. There was no real doctrine for this approach and despite some very hard work in some sectors of the Army and MACV ( Military Assistance Command, Vietnam ) to provide some sort of training and resources, this was primarily a new approach that the units trained, equipped and planned for themselves.
Despite this revamped effort at fighting the enemy on its own terms, U.S. operations remained largely unsuccessful at eliminating the tunnels. In 1967, General  William Westmoreland  tried launching a larger assault on Củ Chi and the  Iron Triangle . Called Operation Cedar Falls, it was, in principle, exactly the same as Operation Crimp, but with 30,000 troops instead of the 8,000.
On January 18, tunnel rats from the 1st and 5th Infantry uncovered the Viet Cong district headquarters of Củ Chi containing half a million documents concerning all types of military strategy. Among the documents were maps of U.S. bases, detailed accounts of PLAF movement from  Cambodia  into Vietnam, lists of political sympathizers, and even plans for a failed assassination attempt on  Robert McNamara . With this one exception, Operation Cedar Falls failed to achieve its objective of destroying the communist stronghold in the region.
A  booby trap  with bamboo spikes.
By 1969, B-52s were freed from bombing North Vietnam and started “ carpet bombing ” Củ Chi and the rest of the Iron Triangle. Ultimately it proved successful but futile. Towards the end of the war, the tunnels were so heavily bombed that some portions actually caved in and other sections were exposed. But by that time, they had succeeded in protecting the local guerrilla units in “surviving to fight another day”.
Throughout the course of the war, the tunnels in and around Củ Chi proved to be a source of frustration for the U.S. military in Saigon. The Viet Cong had been so well entrenched in the area by 1965 that they were in the unique position of locally being able to control where and when battles would take place. By helping to covertly move supplies and house troops, the tunnels of Củ Chi allowed guerrilla fighters in their area of South Vietnam to survive, help prolong the war and increase American costs and casualties until their eventual withdrawal in 1972, and the final defeat of the Republic of Vietnam  in 1975.
Tourist Destination
The 75-mile (121 km)-long complex of tunnels at Củ Chi has been preserved by the government of Vietnam, and turned into a war memorial park. The tunnels are a popular  tourist  attraction, and visitors are invited to crawl around in the safer parts of the tunnel system. Some tunnels have been made larger to accommodate the larger size of Western tourists, while low-power lights have been installed in several of them to make traveling through them easier and booby traps have been clearly marked. Underground conference rooms where campaigns such as the  Tết Offensive  were planned in  1968  have been restored, and visitors may enjoy a simple meal of food that  Viet Cong  fighters would have eaten.
Above-ground attractions include caged monkeys,  vendors  selling  souvenirs , and a  shooting range  where visitors can fire a number of  assault rifles , such as the  M16 rifle  or  AK-47 , as well as a light machine gun like the  M60 .
A command center in the tunnels. Today, visitors to the complex can eat meals underground, sampling foods that the underground Viet Cong fighters had eaten, such as rice.
Tour guide showing how the tunnel works.
Tourists can fire a variety of Vietnam War era weapons at the shooting range.
Visitors entering tunnel system.
VINH MOC TUNNELS
The Structureplan of Vinh Moc Tunnels.
Vinh Moc  (Vịnh Mốc) is a tunnel complex in  Quang Tri ,  Vietnam . During the  Vietnam War  it was strategically located on the border of  North Vietnam  and  South Vietnam . The tunnels were built to shelter people from the intense bombing of Son Trung and Son Ha communes in Vinh Linh county of  Quang Tri Province  in the  Vietnamese Demilitarized Zone . The American forces believed the villagers of Vinh Moc were supplying food and armaments to the North Vietnemese garrison on the island of Con Co which was in turn hindering the American bombers on their way to bomb Hanoi. The idea was to force the villagers of Vinh Moc to leave the area but as is typical in Vietnam there was nowhere else to go. The villagers initially dug the tunnels to move their village 10 metres underground but the American forces designed bombs that burrowed down 10 metres. Eventually against these odds, the villagers moved the village to a depth of 30 metres. It was constructed in several stages beginning in 1966 and used until early 1972. The complex grew to include wells, kitchens, rooms for each family and spaces for healthcare. Around 60 families lived in the tunnels; as many as 17 children were born inside the tunnels.
The tunnels were a success and no villagers lost their lives. The only direct hit was from a bomb that failed to explode; the resulting hole was utilized as a ventilation shaft.
Three levels of tunnels were eventually built.
Geography
The tunnels lie north of the  Ben Hai River .
Much of the sub-strata of Vietnam is limestone which is soft to dig through yet structurally sound. The Limestone allows easy hand digging of the tunnels and no structural supports are necessary.
History
When the  War  took place in Vinh Moc from 1966 to 1972, the  United States Army  released over 9,000 tons of bombs in the area, with a ratio of 7 tons of bombs on average per person. But the local people didn’t want to leave or lose their motherland. So, they began to dig tunnels in 1965  and finished in  1967  with simple tools in 18,000 labor days. The total length of the tunnels is nearly 2,000 m long with 6 entrances to the tops of hills and 7 entrances to the  South China sea .
Tourism
Today, the tunnels are a tourist attraction and can be visited on organised tours. Beside individual tours to the tunnels, they are regularly part of full-day trips, starting from  Hué  to explore the  Demilitarized Zone . In comparision to the  Cu Chi tunnels , walking through the Vinh-Moc-tunnels is a lot more comfortable, because they are situated in a less humid climate zone and the height of the tunnels allows even western tourists to stand upright.
Water well in Vinh Moc tunnel
Bomb Crater in Vinh Moc Tunnel Village
TO BE OR NOT TO BE
Entrance to Vinh Moc Tunnels
Using bomb fragment as a smart to alert everybody when necessary.
Going down to the next level.
:  Maternity Room in Vinh Moc tunnel (where 17 babies were born)
Family Room in Vinh Moc tunnels.
TUNNEL RAT
The  tunnel rats  were  American ,  Australian  and  New Zealand  soldiers who performed underground search and destroy  missions during the  Vietnam War . Later, similar teams were used by the  Red Army  during the  Soviet war in Afghanistan .
An infantryman is lowered into a tunnel during “Operation Oregon”, 1967
In the course of the war, the  Viet Cong  created extensive underground complexes. Whenever troops would uncover a tunnel, tunnel rats were sent in to kill any hiding enemy soldiers and to plant  explosives  to destroy the tunnels. A tunnel rat was equipped with only a standard issue  .45 caliber pistol , a bayonet and a flashlight, although most tunnel rats were allowed to choose another pistol with which to arm themselves. The tunnels were very dangerous, with numerous  booby traps  and enemies lying in wait. Often there were flooded U-bends in the tunnels to trap gas. Guards manned holes on the sides of tunnels through which spears could be thrust, impaling a crawling intruder. Not only were there human enemies, but also dangerous creatures, such as  snakes  (including venomous ones),  rats ,  spiders ,  scorpions , and  ants .  Black-Bearded Tomb Bats  ( Taphozous melanopogon ) and  Lesser Dawn Bats  ( Eonycteris spelaea ) roosted in the tunnels and were a harmless nuisance if awoken.
Part of the tunnel complex at  Củ Chi .
Due to the confined space, the tunnel rats disliked the intense  muzzle blast  of the comparatively large .45 caliber round , which would often leave them temporarily deaf, and it was not uncommon for them to use whatever handgun they might find. The  Soviet -made pistols the enemy carried were particular favourites, but they were rare, and the soldiers would often have someone at home send them a civilian pistol or  revolver . Among the favorites were the smaller German  Luger  or less-common double action  Walther  pistols, both chambered in  9 mm . Many of these were brought home by American troops returning from  World War II . Others would trade their pistols for revolvers used by other personnel. Many used improvised  suppressors  on their pistols to further reduce the noise.A particularly favored weapon was a specially modified  Smith & Wesson Model 29  known as the “quiet special purpose revolver”. Unlike the standard Model 29, which fires a  .44 Magnum  cartridge, the quiet special purpose revolver instead shot a  .410 shotgun shell . This cartridge was far less loud than the .45 caliber. In addition, the revolver lacked as much recoil as the M1911, was lighter, more useful in a tight, claustrophobic space such as a tunnel, and very compact as well.
Tunnel rats were generally, but not exclusively, men of smaller stature in order to fit in the narrow tunnels. It has been claimed by Mangold and Penycate that the tunnel rats were almost exclusively White or Hispanic soldiers, and the majority of  American Latinos  were  Puerto Rican  or  Mexican American . Such tactics came to prominence following their successful application in January 1966 during a combined US-Australian action against the  Củ Chi tunnels  in  Binh Duong Province , known as  Operation Crimp .
Afghanistan
Afghanistan  has an extensive series of historic tunnels used for transporting water, the  kariz , and during the 1979–1989  Soviet   war in Afghanistan , such tunnels were used by  Mujahideen  fighters. The Soviet  40th Army  had their own tunnel rats, who were tasked with flushing people out of the tunnels, then going through the tunnels to disarm booby traps and kill those who remained. Meanwhile, the  United States Marine Corps  and the  Royal Marines  are involved in similar work during the current ongoing  war in Afghanistan .
Tunnel rats preparing to place charges and make connections for detonation
Share this: Twitter Facebook Like this: Like
Loading...
Related
This entry was posted on November 7, 2011 at 3:10 am and is filed under
WORLD'S HISTORY
.						You can follow any responses to this entry through the
RSS 2.0
feed.
You can
leave a response , or
trackback
from your own site.
Leave a Reply
Cancel reply
Enter your comment here...
Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:
Email
(required)
(Address never made public)
Name
(required)
Website
You are commenting using your WordPress.com account.
(  Log Out  /  Change  )
You are commenting using your Twitter account.
(  Log Out  /  Change  )
You are commenting using your Facebook account.
(  Log Out  /  Change  )
You are commenting using your Google+ account.
(  Log Out  /  Change  )
Cancel
Connecting to %s
Notify me of new comments via email.
Blog at WordPress.com .
The Black-LetterHead Theme .
Follow
Follow “2eyeswatching”
Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.
Join 80 other followers
Build a website with WordPress.com
%d
bloggers like this: