Air Force One lithograph with F-16 escort over the Statue of Libery will become a collector’s item in the military community - Matt Scherer
Matt Scherer
Note:
Air Force One lithograph with F-16 escort over the Statue of Libery will become a collector’s item in the military community
By
matt-scherer
on July 31, 2009 at 7:05 PM
Print —
After outraging
New York city residents with a scheduled flyover of mockup of Air Force One
flying over the
Statue of Liberty
for a photograph, someone in the military should have burned all of the negatives.
As a retired Air Force public affairs professional who worked with some of the best military photojournalists in the world, I know the thrill of annually getting six or eight boxes of the poster sized lithographs of everything from the
F-15
to a
B-52 .
For me, getting those lithos was like going to the dime store as a 10-year-old youth to get six pack of bubble gum cards.
Like those baseball cards with stars like Willie Mays and Bob Gibson, our public affairs staff would open up just one pack and ooh and ah at the pictures.
And, like any military noncom, I had the job of keeping the lithos in a special place for distribution to friends of the public affairs office.
When our office needed a special favor or needed to reward the guys at the motor pool or supply, we would secretly slip them an F-15 litho for their office or classroom.
I believe that the F-16 escorting the Air Force One litho will become a rare collector’s item and highly valued among military bases.
Still, the best thing for the Air Force photo and public affairs community would have been to burn the negatives and find an alternate location to shoot the photo again.
Categories:
Uncategorized
Tags:
F-16
|
lithos
|
Statue of Liberty
Matt Scherer
Comments are closed.
Note:
Top
Videos
Most Popular
1
University of the Incarnate Word on alert after report of gunman
2
21-year-old man in critical condition after pinning car under...
3
Young San Antonio mother killed by an alleged drunk driver...
4
Docs: San Antonio Aquarium owner's brother arrested for...
5
'Beautiful' cartel trafficker 'La Muñeca' arrested in Mexico...
6
Katy student complains to school board after teacher argues...
7
Records: SAPD officer threatened to post sexual videos of ex...
8
Selena Quintanilla's widower reveals never-before-seen photo...
9
HBO cancels 'The Brink'
10
North Texas woman accused of hiring hit man for $1,500 to kill...
Browse previous blog posts by month and year of entry. You'll see all the posts for that time period.
Select Month
Show Earlier
Browse previous blog posts by month and year of entry. You'll see all the posts for that time period.
Send to Email Address
Your Name
Your Email Address
Cancel
Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.