សូមស្វាគមន៍ កូនខ្មែរទាំងអស់
skip to main
|
skip to sidebar
Home
Song khmer
Vedio khmer
Mp3 Khmer
Contact me
Sing Song Samuth and Sothea
Khmer Oldies Collection
My Sponsoced
Vedio Khmer
khmer karaoke
Wib Site Other
RFA Radio Khmer Everyday Radio Khmer
Voa Radio Khmer
Livescore Foodball
Manchester United premierleague Paltalk Skype
Karaoke khmer
my old love song :D
Friends
Mr.Sak Mr. Sim
Chunny Mr.Cheat Neaveachivit Khmerdress Mr.SakSith Mengtrykh Fixs Blog N Sak Nan Music Blog Socheate saknandubai Phallapot dynamicdrive Srun Leav eKhmer KSAsoociation CSAssociation Sim Seng Viasna (BSpot) Soddhipong Sovannara Darith Deng Socheatk (Bspot)
Chharda
Khmer Links: វិទ្យុអាស៊ីសេរី ប្រជុំរឿងព្រេងខ្មែរ វិទ្យុកម្ពុជាក្រោម វិទ្យុបារាំងអន្តរជាតិ វិទ្យុព្រលឹងខ្មែរ វិទ្យុសហរដ្ឋអាមេរិច វិទ្យុសំបុកឃ្មុំ វិទ្យុអូស្ត្រាលី វីរូបថត ណារដ្ឋ កញ្ញា ដួងចន្ទ អាចម៌ផ្កាយ សម្រាប់ខ្មែរ​ សុភ័ក្ត្រ សុវណ្ណរចនា សំណាង ខ្មែរអាយធី PC Tips for khmer បណ្ឌិត កំណាព្យសម្រាប់អ្នក កាត់ទោសខ្មែរក្រហម កោះសន្តិភាព ក្រុមខ្មែរអូអេស ច្បាប់ក្រមង៉ុយ ព្រះបាទសម្តេចសីហនុ សិទ្ធិមនុស្សកម្ពុជា ព្រះបាទសម្តេច សីហ មុនី អេវើរីដេ ភ្នំពេញបុស្តិ៍ ភាសាបារាំងសៀមរាប វិទ្យាស្ថានជាតិពាណិជ្ជសាស្ត្រ វិទ្យាស្ថានហ្វឹកហ្វឺនភាសា វិទ្យាស្ថានអន្តរជាតិ សកលវិទ្យាល័យចំរើន សកលវិទ្យាល័យមេគង្គកម្ពុជា សាកលវិទ្យាល័យកម្ពុជា សាកលវិទ្យាល័យន័រតុន សាកលវិទ្យាល័យបញ្ញាសាស្ត្រ សាកលវិទ្យាល័យបៀលប្រាយ សាកលវិទ្យាល័យភូមិន្ទភ្នំពេញ សាលាភាសាខ្មែរ កាត់បន្ថយអាវុធ ក្តីសង្ឃឹមក្នុងកម្ពុជា ជាតិនៃជនពិការ ជំនួយផ្នែកច្បាប់នៃកម្ពុជា បណ្តាញការងារថាមពលឈើ មជ្ឈមណ្ឌលឯកសារកម្ពុជា មណ្ឌលស្រ្តីកម្ពុជា វិទ្យាស្ថានបណ្តុះបណ្តាល វិទ្យាស្ថានសេដ្ឋកិច្ចកម្ពុជា សុខភាពបន្តពូជ អង្គការដើម្បីអភិវឌ្ឍន៍កម្ពុជា អង្គការម្លប់បៃតង អង្គការវឌ្ឍនភាព អង្គការវេទិកាទូទៅនៃកម្ពុជា អ្នកច្បាប់ការពារសិទ្ធិមនុស្ស កម្មវិធីអភិវឌ្ឍន៍ សហប្រជាជាតិសំរាប់ខ្មែរ សហប្រជាតិប្រចាំកម្ពុជា សហប្រជាតិប្រឆាំងរោគអេដស៍ ក្រុមធនាគារពិភពលោក ជំនួយសាលារៀននៅខ្មែរ ទស្សនៈពិភពលោក មូលនិធិពិភពលោកសំរាប់អភិរក្ស មូលនិធិអាស៊ី អង្គការលូថេរ៉ាន់
WELCOME សូមស្វាគមន៍​ ប្រិយមិត្តជាទីរាប់អាន​សូមអរគុណចំពោះការចូលរួមក្នុងកម្មវិធីរបស់ខ្ញុំ បើមានការខុសឆ្គងត្រង់កន្លែងណាមួយសូមមេត្តាអភ័យផង​​ដោយសាខ្ញុំបង្កើតប្លុកនេះដើម្បីអោយបងប្អូនងាយស្រួលនិងអានពត៏មានហើយស្ដាប់បទចំរៀងដូចជាខារាអូខេ អឹមភី៣
ហើយនិងភាពយន្ត​ Kindnesskhmer.blogspot.com
Thursday, 11 December 2008
Kingdom of Cambodia
Kingdom of Cambodia
Preăh Réachéanachâkr Kâmpŭchea Royaume du Cambodge
Flag
Coat of arms
Motto :
"Nation, Religion, King"
Anthem :
Nokoreach
Capital (and largest city)
Phnom Penh 11°33′N
104°55′E ﻿ / ﻿ 11.55 ,
104.917
Official languages
Khmer
Demonym
Cambodian
Government
Constitutional monarchy
-
King
Biotch
-
Prime Minister
Hun Sen
Independence
-
from France
November 9, 1953
Area
-
Total
181,035 km 2
( 88th ) 69,898
sq mi
-
Water
( % )
2.5
Population
-
2008 estimate
13,388,910 ( 67th )
-
2008 census
13,388,910
-
Density
74/km 2
( 125th ) 192/sq mi
GDP
( PPP )
2007 estimate
-
Total
$26.064 billion [ 1 ]
( 89th )
-
Per capita
$1,817 [ 1 ]
( 133rd )
GDP
(nominal)
2007 estimate
-
Total
$8.690 billion [ 1 ]
-
Per capita
$606 [ 1 ]
HDI
(2007)
▲
0.598 ( medium ) ( 131st )
Currency
Riel
(៛) 1
( KHR )
Time zone
( UTC +7)
-
Summer ( DST )
( UTC +7)
Drives on the
right
Internet TLD
.kh
Calling code
855
1
Local currency, although
US dollars
are widely used. The
Kingdom of Cambodia
(pronounced
/kæmˈboʊdiə/ , formerly known as
Kampuchea
( /kæmpuːˈtʃiːə/ ),
,
transliterated :
Preăh Réachéanachâkr Kâmpŭchea ) is a country in
South East Asia
with a population of over 13 million people. [ 2 ]
The kingdom's capital and largest city is
Phnom Penh . Cambodia is the
successor state
of the once powerful
Hindu
and
Buddhist
Khmer Empire , which ruled most of the
Indochinese Peninsula
between the eleventh and fourteenth centuries.
A citizen of Cambodia is usually identified as " Cambodian " or " Khmer ," though the latter strictly refers to
ethnic Khmers . Most Cambodians are
Theravada Buddhists
of
Khmer
extraction, but the country also has a substantial number of predominantly
Muslim
Cham , as well as ethnic
Chinese ,
Vietnamese
and small
animist
hill tribes.
The country borders
Thailand
to its west and northwest,
Laos
to its northeast, and
Vietnam
to its east and southeast. In the south it faces the
Gulf of Thailand . The geography of Cambodia is dominated by the
Mekong
river (colloquial
Khmer :
Tonle Thom
or "the great river") and the
Tonlé Sap
("the fresh water lake"), an important source of fish.
Cambodia's main industries are
garments ,
tourism , and construction. In 2007, foreign visitors to
Angkor Wat
numbered more than 4 million.
In 2005, oil and natural gas deposits were found beneath Cambodia's territorial water, and once commercial extraction begins in 2011, the oil revenues could profoundly affect Cambodia's economy.
History
Main article:
History of Cambodia
A
Khmer
army going to war against the
Cham , from a relief on the
Bayon
The first advanced civilizations in present-day Cambodia appeared in the
1st millennium
AD . During the
3rd ,
4th , and
5th
centuries, the Indianised states of
Funan
and
Chenla
coalesced in what is now present-day Cambodia and southwestern Vietnam. These states, which are assumed by most scholars to have been Khmer,
had close relations with China and Thailand.
Their collapse was followed by the rise of the Khmer Empire, a civilization which flourished in the area from the
9th century
to the
13th century .
Southeast Asia circa 1100 AD.
Khmer Empire
lands in yellow.
The Khmer Empire declined yet remained powerful in the region until the 15th century. The empire's center of power was
Angkor , where a series of capitals was constructed during the empire's zenith.
Angkor Wat , the most famous and best-preserved religious temple at the site, is a reminder of Cambodia's past as a major regional power.
After a long series of wars with neighbouring kingdoms,
Angkor
was sacked by the
Thai
and abandoned in 1432.
The court moved the capital to
Lovek
where the kingdom sought to regain its glory through maritime trade. The attempt was short-lived, however, as continued wars with the Thai and
Vietnamese
resulted in the loss of more territory and the conquering of Lovek in 1594. During the next three centuries, The Khmer kingdom alternated as a vassal state of the Thai and Vietnamese kings, with short-lived periods of relative independence between.
King Norodom
of Cambodia (1834-1904).
In 1863
King Norodom , who had been installed by Thailand,
sought the protection of France from the Thai and Vietnamese, after tensions grew between them. In 1867, the Thai king signed a treaty with France, renouncing
suzerainty
over Cambodia in exchange for the control of
Battambang
and
Siem Reap
provinces which officially became part of
Thailand . The provinces were ceded back to Cambodia by a border treaty between France and Thailand in 1906.
Cambodia continued as a
protectorate
of France from 1863 to 1953, administered as part of the
colony
of
French Indochina , though occupied by the
Japanese empire
from 1941 to 1945. Cambodia gained independence from France on November 9, 1953. It became a constitutional monarchy under
King Norodom Sihanouk .
In 1955, Sihanouk abdicated in favour of his father in order to be elected Prime Minister. Upon his father's death in 1960, Sihanouk again became head of state, taking the title of Prince. As the
Vietnam War
progressed, Sihanouk adopted an official policy of
neutrality
in the
Cold War . However, Cambodians began to take sides, and he was
ousted in 1970
by a military
coup
led by Prime Minister General
Lon Nol
and Prince Sisowath
Sirik Matak , while on a trip abroad. From
Beijing , Sihanouk realigned himself with the
communist
Khmer Rouge
rebels who had been slowly gaining territory in the remote mountain regions and urged his followers to help in overthrowing the pro-United States government of Lon Nol, hastening the onset of
civil war .
Operation Menu , a series of secret
B-52
bombing raids by the United States on alleged
Viet Cong
bases and supply routes inside Cambodia, was acknowledged after Lon Nol assumed power; U.S. forces
briefly invaded Cambodia
in a further effort to disrupt the Viet Cong. The bombing continued and, as the Cambodian communists began gaining ground, eventually included strikes on suspected Khmer Rouge sites until halted in 1973.
Some two million Cambodians were made
refugees
by the bombing and fighting and fled to Phnom Penh. Estimates of the number of Cambodians killed during the bombing campaigns vary widely. Views of the effects of the bombing also vary widely. The US Seventh Air Force argued that the bombing prevented the fall of Phnom Penh in 1973 by killing 16,000 of 25,500 Khmer Rouge fighters besieging the city.
Journalist
William Shawcross
and Cambodia specialists
Milton Osborne ,
David P. Chandler
and
Ben Kiernan
argued that the bombing drove peasants to join the Khmer Rouge. Chandler writes that the bombing provided "the psychological ingredients of a violent, vengeful and unrelenting social revolution."
Cambodia specialist Craig Etcheson argued that it is "untenable" to assert that the Khmer Rouge would not have won but for US intervention, and that while the bombing did help
Khmer Rouge
recruitment, they "would have won anyway."
As the war ended, a draft US AID report observed that the country faced
famine
in 1975, with 75% of its draft animals destroyed by the war, and that rice planting for the next harvest would have to be done "by the hard labor of seriously malnourished people." The report predicted that
without large-scale external food and equipment assistance there will be widespread starvation between now and next February... Slave labor and starvation rations for half the nation's people (probably heaviest among those who supported the republic) will be a cruel necessity for this year, and general deprivation and suffering will stretch over the next two or three years before Cambodia can get back to rice self-sufficiency.
Stupa which houses the skulls of those killed at
Choeung Ek
The Khmer Rouge reached Phnom Penh and took power in 1975, changing the official name of the country to
Democratic Kampuchea , led by
Pol Pot . The Regime, heavily influenced and backed by
China , immediately evacuated the cities and sent the entire population on forced marches to rural work projects. They attempted to rebuild the country's agriculture on the model of the 11th century. They discarded Western medicine, destroyed temples, libraries, and anything considered western. Any person with trained skills, doctors, lawyers, teachers, were especially targeted. According to Robert Kaplan in
The Ends of the Earth
(Vintage, 1996, p 406), "eyeglasses were as deadly as the yellow star." Over a million Cambodians, out of a total population of 8 million, died from executions, overwork, starvation and disease. There were almost no drugs in the country.
Estimates vary as to how many people were killed by the Khmer Rouge regime, ranging from approximately one to three million.
This era has given rise to the term
Killing Fields , and the prison
Tuol Sleng
became as notorious as
Auschwitz
in the history of mass killing. Hundreds of thousands more fled across the border into neighbouring
Thailand . The regime disproportionately targeted
ethnic minority
groups. The
Cham
Muslims suffered serious purges with as much as half of their population exterminated.
In November 1978,
Vietnam
invaded Cambodia to stop Khmer Rouge incursions across the border and the genocide in Cambodia.
Violent occupation and
warfare
between the Vietnamese and Khmer Rouge holdouts continued throughout the 1980s.
Peace efforts
began in
Paris
in 1989, culminating two years later in October 1991 in a comprehensive peace settlement. The
United Nations
was given a mandate to enforce a ceasefire, and deal with refugees and disarmament.
After the brutality of the 1970s and the 1980s, and the destruction of the cultural, economic, social and political life of Cambodia, it is only in recent years that reconstruction efforts have begun and some political stability has finally returned to Cambodia. Cambodia's natural resources, particularly its valuable timber, is being exploited by interests from Thailand, Vietnam, Malaysia, Singapore, and Australia. The Khmer Rouge is still active in some areas, often supporting illegal timber operations. Travel by land and river is still precarious. (Kaplan, p. 415).
The stability established following the conflict was shaken in 1997 during a coup d'état, [ 22 ]
but has otherwise remained in place. Cambodia has been aided by a number of more developed nations like Japan, France, Germany, Canada, and Australia. The United States and Great Britain were reluctant to provide aid due to its relationship with China, one of its greatest trading partners.
Politics and government
Main article:
Politics of Cambodia
Hun Sen ,
Prime Minister of Cambodia
The politics of Cambodia formally take place, according to the nation's
constitution
of 1993, in the framework of a
constitutional monarchy
operated as a
parliamentary
representative democracy . The
Prime Minister of Cambodia
is the
head of government , and of a pluriform
multi-party system , while the
king
is the
head of state . The Prime Minister is appointed by the King, on the advice and with the approval of the
National Assembly ; the Prime Minister and his or her ministerial appointees exercise
executive power
in government.
Legislative power
is vested in both the executive and the two chambers of parliament, the
National Assembly of Cambodia
and the
Senate .
King
Norodom Sihamoni
of Cambodia
On October 14, 2004, King
Norodom Sihamoni
was selected by a special nine-member throne council, part of a selection process that was quickly put in place after the surprise abdication of King Norodom Sihanouk a week before. Sihamoni's selection was endorsed by Prime Minister
Hun Sen
and National Assembly Speaker Prince
Norodom Ranariddh
(the new king's brother), both members of the throne council. He was crowned in Phnom Penh on October 29. Norodom Sihamoni was trained in Cambodian classical dance. Due to his long stay in the
Czech Republic
(then part of
Czechoslovakia ) Norodom Sihamoni is fluent in the
Czech language .
In 2006, Transparency International's rating of corrupt countries rated Cambodia as 151st of 163 countries of their Corruption Perceptions Index.
The 2007 edition of the same list placed Cambodia at 162nd out of 179 countries.
According to this same list, Cambodia is the 3rd most corrupt nation in the South-East Asia area, behind
Laos , at 168th, and
Myanmar , at joint 179th. The BBC reports that corruption is rampant in the Cambodian political arena
with international aid from the U.S. and other countries being illegally transferred into private accounts.
Corruption has also added to the wide income disparity within the population.
Military
Royal Cambodian Army
special forces
Main article:
Royal Cambodian Armed Forces
The king is the Supreme Commander of the
Royal Cambodian Armed Forces
(RCAF) and the country's prime minister effectively holds the position of
commander-in-chief . The introduction of a revised command structure early in 2000 was a key prelude to the reorganization of the RCAF. This saw the ministry of national defense form three subordinate general departments responsible for logistics and finance, materials and technical services, and defense services. The High Command Headquarters (HCHQ) was left unchanged, but the general staff was dismantled and the former will assume responsibility over three autonomous infantry divisions. A joint staff was also formed, responsible for inter-service co-ordination and staff management within HCHQ.
The minister of National Defense is Tea Banh. Tea Banh has served as defense minister since 1979. The Secretaries of State for Defense are Chay Saing Yun and Por Bun Sreu.
Ke Kim Yan is the current commander of the RCAF. The
Army Commander
is
Meas Sophea
and the
Army Chief of Staff
is Chea Saran.
Geography
Cambodian island of
Koh Tonsay
Main article:
Geography of Cambodia
Cambodia has an area of 181,035 square kilometers (69,898 sq mi), sharing an 800 kilometer (500 mi) border with Thailand in the north and west, a 541 kilometer (336 mi) border with Laos in the northeast, and a 1,228 kilometer (763 mi) border with
Vietnam
in the east and southeast. It has 443 kilometers (275 mi) of coastline along the
Gulf of Thailand .
A boat on the
Tonle Sap .
The most distinctive geographical feature is the
lacustrine plain , formed by the inundations of the
Tonle Sap
(Great Lake), measuring about 2,590 square kilometers (1,000 sq mi) during the dry season and expanding to about 24,605 square kilometers (9,500 sq mi) during the rainy season. This densely populated plain, which is devoted to wet rice cultivation, is the heartland of Cambodia. Much of this area has been designated as a biosphere reserve.
Most (about 75%) of the country lies at elevations of less than 100 metres (330 ft) above sea level, the exceptions being the
Cardamom Mountains
(highest elevation 1,813 m / 5,948 ft) and their southeast extension the
Dâmrei Mountains
("Elephant Mountains") (elevation range 500–1,000 m or 1,640–3,280 ft), as well the steep escarpment of the
Dângrêk Mountains
(average elevation 500 m / 1,640 ft) along the border with Thailand's
Isan
region. The highest elevation of Cambodia is
Phnom Aoral , near
Pursat
in the centre of the country, at 1,813 metres (5,948 ft).
Climate
Monsoon season in
Kampong Speu Province
Serendipity Bay,
Sihanoukville
Cambodia's temperatures range from 21° to 35°C (69° to 95°F) and experiences tropical
monsoons . Southwest monsoons blow inland bringing moisture-laden winds from the
Gulf of Thailand
and
Indian Ocean
from May to October. The northeast monsoon ushers in the dry season, which lasts from November to March. The country experiences the heaviest precipitation from September to October with the driest period occurring from January to February.
It has two distinct seasons. The rainy season, which runs from May to October, can see temperatures drop to 22 °C and is generally accompanied with high humidity. The dry season lasts from November to April when temperatures can raise up to 40 °C around April. The best months to visit Cambodia are November to January when temperatures and humidity are lower.
Administrative divisions
Provinces (khaet) and municipalities (krong) are Cambodia's first-level administrative divisions. Rural areas are divided among Cambodia's twenty provinces, and urban areas are divided among Cambodia's four municipalities.
Full article:
Administrative divisions of Cambodia
City and province sizes
No.
City or province
Area
km²
sq mi
1
City of
Phnom Penh
290
112
2
Kandal Province
3,568
1,378
3
Takeo Province
3,563
1,376
4
Kampong Cham Province
9,799
3,783
5
Kampong Thom Province
13,814
5,334
6
Siem Reap Province
10,299
3,976
7
Preah Vihear Province
13,788
5,324
8
Oddar Meancheay Province
6,158
2,378
9
Banteay Meanchey Province
6,679
2,579
10
Battambang Province
11,072
4,275
11
City of
Pailin
803
310
12
Pursat Province
12,692
4,900
13
Kampong Chhnang Province
5,521
2,132
14
Kampong Speu Province
7,017
2,709
15
Koh Kong Province
11,160
4,309
16
City of
Sihanoukville
868
335
17
Kampot Province
4,873.2
1,881.6
18
City of
Kep
335.8
129.7
19
Prey Veng Province
4,883
1,885
20
Svay Rieng Province
2,966
1,145
21
Kratie Province
11,094
4,283
22
Stung Treng Province
11,092
4,283
23
Ratanakiri Province
10,782
4,163
24
Mondulkiri Province
14,288
5,517
25
Tonlé Sap
3,000
1,158
TOTAL AREA
181,035
69,898
[ edit ]
Foreign relations
Main article:
Foreign relations of Cambodia
Cambodia is a member of the United Nations, the
World Bank
and the
International Monetary Fund . It is an
Asian Development Bank
(ADB) member, a member of
ASEAN , and joined the
WTO
on October 13, 2004. In 2005 Cambodia attended the inaugural
East Asia Summit .
Cambodia has established
diplomatic relations
with numerous countries; the government reports twenty embassies in the country
including many of its Asian neighbours and those of important players during the Paris peace negotiations, including the US, Australia, Canada, China, the European Union (EU), Japan, and Russia.
While the violent ruptures of the 1970s and 80s have passed, several
border disputes
between Cambodia and its neighbours persist. There are disagreements over some offshore islands and sections of the boundary with Vietnam, and undefined maritime boundaries and border areas with Thailand.
In January 2003, there were anti-Thai
riots in Phnom Penh
prompted by rumoured comments about
Angkor Wat
allegedly made by a Thai actress and printed in
Reaksmei Angkor , a Cambodian newspaper, and later quoted by Prime Minister
Hun Sen . ]
The Thai government sent military aircraft to evacuate Thai nationals and closed its border with Cambodia to Thais and Cambodians (at no time was the border ever closed to foreigners or Western tourists) while Thais demonstrated outside the Cambodian embassy in
Bangkok . The border was re-opened on March 21, after the Cambodian government paid $6 million
USD
in compensation for the destruction of the Thai embassy and agreed to compensate individual Thai businesses for their losses. The "comments" that had sparked the riots turned out to be false. More problems came between Cambodia and Thailand in mid 2008 when Cambodia wanted to list
Prasat Preah Vihear
as a UNESCO World heritage site, which later resulted in a
stand-off
in which both countries deployed its soldiers near the border, and around the disputed territory between the two countries.
Wildlife of Cambodia
Indochinese Tiger
Main article:
Wildlife of Cambodia
See also:
Deforestation in Cambodia
Cambodia has a wide variety of plants and animals. There are 212
mammal
species, 536
bird
species, 240
reptile
species, 850 freshwater
fish
species (Tonle Sap Lake area), and 435 marine fish species. Much of this biodiversity is contained around the Tonle Sap Lake and Biosphere. [ citation needed ]
The country has one of the highest
deforestation
rates in the world. Since 1970, Cambodia's primary rainforest cover fell dramatically from over 70 percent in 1970 to just 3.1 percent in 2007. In total, Cambodia lost 25,000 square kilometres (9,700 sq mi) of forest between 1990 and 2005—3,340 km 2
(1,290 sq mi) of which was primary forest. As of 2007, less than 3,220 km 2
(1,243 sq mi) of primary forest remain with the result that the future
sustainability
of the forest reserves of Cambodia is under severe threat, with illegal loggers looking to generate revenue.
Economy
Main article:
Economy of Cambodia
Construction on Cambodia's first skyscraper
Final economic indicators for 2007 are not yet available. 2006 GDP was $7.265 billion ( per capita
GDP $513), with annual growth of 10.8%. Estimates for 2007 are for a GDP of $8.251 billion ( per capita
$571) and annual growth of 8.5%). Inflation for 2006 was 2.6%, and the current estimate for final 2007 inflation is 6.2%.
Rice cropping plays an important role in the economy
Per capita income
is rapidly increasing, but is low compared with other countries in the region. Most rural households depend on agriculture and its related sub-sectors. Rice, fish, timber, garments and rubber are Cambodia's major exports. The
International Rice Research Institute
(IRRI) reintroduced more than 750 traditional rice varieties to Cambodia from its rice seed bank in the
Philippines .
These varieties had been collected in the 1960s. In 1987, the Australian government funded IRRI to assist Cambodia to improve its rice production. By 2000, Cambodia was once again self-sufficient in rice.
However, few Cambodian farmers grow other crops leaving them vulnerable to crop failure. In recent years, various international aid organisations have begun crop diversification programs to encourage farmers to grow other crops.
Angkor Wat , the biggest tourist draw of Cambodia
The recovery of Cambodia's economy slowed dramatically in 1997–98, due to the
regional economic crisis , civil violence, and political infighting.
Foreign investment
and tourism also fell off drastically. Since then however, growth has been steady. In 1999, the first full year of peace in 30 years, progress was made on economic reforms and
growth
resumed at 5.0%. Despite severe flooding, GDP grew at 5.0% in 2000, 6.3% in 2001, and 5.2% in 2002. Tourism was Cambodia's fastest growing industry, with arrivals increasing from 219,000 in 1997 to 1,055,000 in 2004. During 2003 and 2004 the growth rate remained steady at 5.0%, while in 2004 inflation was at 1.7% and exports at $1.6 billion
USD . As of 2005,
GDP
per capita in PPP terms was $2,200, which ranked 178th (out of 233) countries.
The older population often lacks education, particularly in the countryside, which suffers from a lack of basic
infrastructure . Fear of renewed political instability and corruption within the government discourage foreign investment and delay foreign aid, although there has been significant assistance from bilateral and multilateral donors. Donors pledged $504 million to the country in 2004,
while the Asian Development Bank alone has provided $850 million in loans, grants, and technical assistance.
The tourism industry is the country's second-greatest source of
hard currency
after the textile industry.
50% of visitor arrivals are to
Angkor , and most of the remainder to Phnom Penh.
Other tourist destinations include
Sihanoukville
in the southeast which has several popular beaches, and the nearby area around Kampot including the
Bokor Hill Station .
Demographics
Main articles:
Demographics of Cambodia
and
Ethnic groups in Cambodia
Cham
muslims of Cambodia
More than 90% of its population is of
Khmer
origin and speaks the
Khmer language , the country's official language. The remainder include
Chinese , Vietnamese,
Cham
and
Khmer Loeu .
The Khmer language is a member of the
Mon-Khmer
subfamily of the
Austroasiatic language
group. French, once the language of government in
Indochina , is still spoken by some older Cambodians. French is also the language of instruction in some schools and universities that are funded by the government of France.
Cambodian French , a remnant of the country's colonial past, is a dialect found in Cambodia and is sometimes used in government. However, in recent decades, many younger Cambodians and those in the business-class have favoured learning English. In the major cities and tourist centers, English is widely spoken and taught at a large number of schools due to the overwhelming number of tourists from English-speaking countries. Even in the most rural outposts, however, most young people speak at least some English, as it is often taught by monks at the local pagodas where many children are educated.
Local women at a market in
Battambang
Cambodia religiosity
religion
percent
Buddhism
95%
Islam
3%
Christianity
2%
The dominant religion, a form of
Theravada Buddhism
(95%), was suppressed by the Khmer Rouge but has since experienced a revival.
Islam
(3%) and
Christianity
(2%) are also practiced.
Civil war and its aftermath have had a marked effect on the Cambodian population. The median age is 20.6 years, with more than 50% of the population younger than 25. At 0.95 males/female, Cambodia has the most female-biased sex ratio in the Greater Mekong Subregion . In the Cambodian population over 65, the female to male ratio is 1.6:1. [ 36 ]
UNICEF
has designated Cambodia the third most
mined
country in the world,
attributing over 60,000 civilian deaths and thousands more maimed or injured since 1970 to the unexploded land mines left behind in rural areas.
The majority of the victims are children herding animals or playing in the fields.
Adults that survive landmines often require amputation of one or more limbs and have to resort to begging for survival.
In 2006, the number of landmines casualties in Cambodia took a sharp decrease of more than 50% compared to 2005, with the number of landmines victims down from 800 in 2005 to less than 400 in 2006. The reduced casualty rate continued in 2007, with 208 casualties (38 killed and 170 injured).
Culture and society
Main articles:
Culture of Cambodia
and
Sport in Cambodia
Cambodian classical dancers.
Khmer culture, as developed and spread by the
Khmer empire , has distinctive styles of dance, architecture and sculpture, which have been exchanged with neighbouring
Laos
and
Thailand
through the history.
Angkor Wat
( Angkor
means "city" and
Wat
"temple") is the best preserved example of Khmer architecture from the Angkorian era and hundreds of other temples have been discovered in and around the region. The
Tuol Sleng Genocide Museum , the infamous prison of the Khmer Rouge, and
Choeung Ek , one of the main
Killing Fields
are other important historic sites.
Bonn Om Teuk
(Festival of Boat Racing), the annual boat rowing contest, is the most attended Cambodian national festival. Held at the end of the rainy season when the Mekong river begins to sink back to its normal levels allowing the Tonle Sap River to reverse flow, approximately 10% of Cambodia's population attends this event each year to play games, give thanks to the moon, watch fireworks, and attend the boat race in a carnival-type atmosphere.
Popular games include
cockfighting ,
soccer , and kicking a
sey,
which is similar to a
footbag . Recent artistic figures include singers
Sinn Sisamouth
and
Ros Sereysothea
(and later
Meng Keo Pichenda ), who introduced new musical styles to the country.
Amok , a popular Cambodian dish.
Rice, as in other
Southeast Asian
countries, is the staple grain, while fish from the Mekong and Tonle Sap also form an important part of the diet. The Cambodian per capita supply of fish and fish products for food and trade in 2000 was 20
kilograms
of fish per year or 2
ounces
per day per person.
Some of the fish can be made into
prahok
for longer storage. Overall, the
cuisine of Cambodia
is similar to that of its Southeast Asian neighbours. The cuisine is relatively unknown to the world compared to that of its neighbours Thailand and Vietnam.
Football
is one of the more popular sports, although professional organized sports are not as prevalent in Cambodia as in western countries due to the economic conditions. The
Cambodia national football team
managed fourth in the
1972 Asian Cup
but development has slowed since the civil war. Western sports such as volleyball, bodybuilding, field hockey,
rugby union , golf, and baseball are gaining popularity. Native sports include
traditional boat racing , buffalo racing,
Pradal Serey
,
Khmer traditional wrestling
and
Bokator .
Transport
National Highway 1
Main article:
Transport in Cambodia
The civil war and wildlife severely damaged Cambodia's transport system, but with assistance and equipment from other countries Cambodia has been upgrading the main highways to international standards and most are vastly improved from 2006. Most main roads are now paved. Cambodia has two rail lines, totalling about 612
kilometers
(380
mi ) of single, one
meter
gauge track.
The lines run from the capital to Sihanoukville on the southern coast, and from Phnom Penh to
Sisophon
(although trains often run only as far as
Battambang ). Currently only one passenger train per week operates, between Phnom Penh and Battambang.
Besides the main interprovincial traffic artery connecting the capital
Phnom Penh
with
Sihanoukville , resurfacing a former dirt road with concrete / asphalt and implementation of 5 major river crossings by means of bridges have now permanently connected Phnom Penh with
Koh Kong
and hence there is now uninterrupted road access to neighboring Thailand and their vast road system.
Siem Reap International Airport
The nation's extensive inland waterways were important historically in international trade. The
Mekong
and the
Tonle Sap
River, their numerous tributaries, and the Tonle Sap provided avenues of considerable length, including 3,700 kilometers (2,300 mi) navigable all year by craft drawing 0.6 meters (2 ft) and another 282 kilometers (175 mi) navigable to craft drawing 1.8 meters (6 ft).
Cambodia has two major ports, Phnom Penh and Sihanoukville, and five minor ones. Phnom Penh, located at the junction of the
Bassac , the Mekong, and the Tonle Sap rivers, is the only
river port
capable of receiving 8,000- ton
ships during the wet season and 5,000-ton ships during the dry season.
With increasing economic activity has come an increase in automobile and motorcycle use, though bicycles still predominate; as often in developing countries, an associated rise in traffic deaths and injuries is occurring.
Cycle rickshaws
(" pʰʊt-pʰʊt s" [ dubious
–
discuss ] ) are an additional option often used by visitors.
The country has four commercial airports.
Phnom Penh International Airport (Pochentong)
in Phnom Penh is the second largest in Cambodia.
Siem Reap-Angkor International Airport
is the largest and serves the most international flights in and out of Cambodia. The other airports are in
Sihanoukville
and
Battambang .
International rankings
Organization
Heritage Foundation
Index of Economic Freedom
100 out of 157
Reporters Without Borders
Worldwide Press Freedom Index
126 out of 173
Transparency International
Corruption Perceptions Index
162 out of 179
United Nations Development Programme
Human Development Index
131 out of 177
World Economic Forum
Global Competitiveness Report
110 out of 131
Please Read more Detail!
Posted by
Simleboy
at
01:12
0
comments
Labels:
Kingdom of Cambodia
សាធារណរដ្ឋប្រជាមានិតកម្ពុជ
សាធារណរដ្ឋប្រជាមានិតកម្ពុជា Cộng hòa nhân dân Kampuchea People's Republic of Kampuchea
←
1979 – 1993
→
Flag
The
People's Republic of Kampuchea
was a nation founded after the collapse of the
Khmer Rouge
government. Aided by an invasion from the
Socialist Republic of Vietnam , this
communist
state existed between 1979 and 1993, with
Vietnam
and
China
as its main allies. History
The PRK was established in January 1979 in line with the broad revolutionary program set forth by the
Kampuchean
(or Khmer) National United Front for National Salvation which was formed on December 2, 1978, in a zone liberated from the Khmer Rouge. Of the front's fourteen central committee members, the top two leaders--Heng Samrin, president, and Chea Sim, vice president--were identified as "former" KCP officials. Ros Samay, secretary general of the KNUFNS, was a former KCP "staff assistant" in a military unit. The government of Democratic Kampuchea denounced the KNUFNS, as "a
Vietnamese
political organization with a Khmer name," because several of its key members had been affiliated with the KCP.
The initial objectives of the KNUFNS were to rally the people under its banner, to topple the regime of
Pol Pot , to adopt a new constitution for a "democratic state advancing toward socialism," to build mass organizations, and to develop a revolutionary army. Its foreign policy objectives included pursuing nonalignment, settling disputes with neighbors through negotiations, putting an end to "the border war with Vietnam" provoked by the Pol Pot regime, and opposing foreign military bases on Cambodian soil. On December 26, 1978, the day after the Vietnamese invasion, the KNUFNS reiterated its opposition to foreign military bases.
On January 1, 1979, the front's central committee proclaimed a set of "immediate policies" to be applied in the " liberated
areas." One of these policies was to establish "people's self-management committees" in all localities. These committees would form the basic administrative structure for the Kampuchean People's Revolutionary Council (KPRC), decreed on January 8, 1979, as the central administrative body for the PRK. The KPRC served as the ruling body of the Heng Samrin regime until June 27, 1981, when a new Constitution required that it be replaced by a newly elected Council of Ministers.
Pen Sovan
became the new prime minister. He was assisted by three deputy prime ministers-- Hun Sen, Chan Si, and Chea Soth.
On
January 10 ,
1979 , the Vietnamese installed the new
People's Republic of Kampuchea
(PRK) ( Vietnamese :
Cộng hòa nhân dân Kampuchea ), ruling through former Khmer Rouge officials under the
Kampuchean People's Revolutionary Party
label.
Heng Samrin
was named as head of state, and other Khmer
communists
like
Chan Sy
and
Hun Sen
were prominent from the start. The Vietnamese army continued its pursuit of Pol Pot's Khmer Rouge forces. At least 600,000 Cambodians displaced during the Pol Pot era and the Vietnamese invasion began streaming to the
Thai
border in search of refuge. The international community responded with a massive relief effort coordinated by the
United States
through
UNICEF
and the World Food Program. More than $400 million was provided between 1979 and 1982, of which the United States contributed nearly $100 million. At one point, more than 500,000 Cambodians were living along the Thai-Cambodian border and more than 100,000 in holding centers inside Thailand.
Vietnam's occupation army of as many as 200,000 troops controlled the major population centers and most of the countryside from 1979 to September 1989. The regime of Heng Samrin fielded 30,000 troops plagued by poor morale and widespread desertion. Resistance to Vietnam's occupation continued, and there was some evidence that Heng Samrin's PRK forces provided logistic and moral support to the guerrillas.
A large portion of the Khmer Rouge's military forces eluded Vietnamese troops and established themselves in remote regions. The non-communist resistance, consisting of a number of groups which had been fighting the Khmer Rouge after 1975--including
Lon Nol -era soldiers--coalesced in 1979-80 to form the
Khmer People's National Liberation Armed Forces
(KPNLAF), which pledged loyalty to former Prime Minister
Son Sann , and
Moulinaka
( Mouvement pour la Libération Nationale du Kampuchea ), loyal to
Prince Sihanouk . In 1979, Son Sann formed the
Khmer People's National Liberation Front
( KPNLF ) to lead the political struggle for Cambodia's independence. Prince Sihanouk formed his own organization,
FUNCINPEC , and its military arm, the
Armée Nationale Sihanoukienne
(ANS) in 1981.
Warfare followed a wet season/dry season rhythm after 1980. The heavily-armed Vietnamese forces conducted offensive operations during the dry seasons, and the resistance forces held the initiative during the rainy seasons. In 1982, Vietnam launched a major offensive against the main Khmer Rouge base at
Phnom Melai
in the
Cardamom Mountains . Resistance military forces, however, were largely undamaged. In the 1984-85 dry season offensive, the Vietnamese again attacked base camps of all three resistance groups. Despite stiff resistance from the guerrillas, the Vietnamese succeeded in eliminating the camps in Cambodia and drove both the guerrillas and civilian refugees into neighboring Thailand. The Vietnamese concentrated on consolidating their gains during the 1985-86 dry season, including an attempt to seal guerrilla infiltration routes into the country by forcing Cambodian laborers to construct trenches, wire fences, and minefields along virtually the entire Thai-Cambodian border.
The Khmer Rouge had also mobilized their guerrillas the same way. They cut down giant trees to block roads in the thick jungle along the Thai-Cambodian border to prevent the Vietnamese tanks and armored trucks from passing through. The Khmer Rouge laid down mines and subterfugere which forced the Vietnamese to employ guerilla warfare as one of their tactics as well. However, the Vietnamese suffered damaging casualties, and momentum shifted. The Khmer Rouge gained confidence that they could keep swiping away Vietnamese armies, and the Vietnamese found out how easy it is to become the prey rather than the predator. In fact some books have called this "Vietnam's Vietnam War".
Within Cambodia, Vietnam had only limited success in establishing its client Heng Samrin's regime, which was dependent on Vietnamese advisors at all levels. Security in some rural areas was tenuous, and major transportation routes were subject to interdiction by resistance forces. The presence of Vietnamese throughout the country and their intrusion into nearly all aspects of Cambodian life alienated much of the populace. The settlement of Vietnamese nationals, both former residents and new immigrants, further exacerbated anti-Vietnamese sentiment. Reports of the numbers involved vary widely with some estimates as high as 1 million. By the end of this decade, Khmer nationalism began to reassert itself against the traditional Vietnamese enemy.
In 1986, Hanoi claimed to have begun withdrawing part of its occupation forces. At the same time, Vietnam continued efforts to strengthen its client regime, the PRK, and its military arm, the
Kampuchean People's Revolutionary Armed Forces
(KPRAF). These withdrawals continued over the next 2 years, although actual numbers were difficult to verify. Vietnam's proposal to withdraw its remaining occupation forces in 1989-90--the result of ongoing international pressure--forced the PRK to begin economic and constitutional reforms in an attempt to ensure future political dominance. In April 1989, Hanoi and Phnom Penh announced that final withdrawal would take place by the end of September 1989.
The military organizations of Prince Sihanouk (ANS) and of former Prime Minister Son Sann (KPNLAF) underwent significant military improvement during the 1988-89 period and both expanded their presence in Cambodia's interior. These organizations provide a political alternative to the Vietnamese-supported People's Republic of Kampuchea [PRK] and the murderous Khmer Rouge. The last Vietnamese troops left Cambodia in 26 September 1989 but probably not until 1990 .
Constitution
The Constitution of the PRK, promulgated on June 27, 1981, defines Cambodia as "a democratic state...gradually advancing toward socialism." The transition to socialism was to take place under the leadership of the Kampuchean (or Khmer) People's Revolutionary Party (KPRP--see Appendix B), a Marxist-Leninist party founded in June 1951 (see The Emergence of Nationalism , ch. 1). The Constitution explicitly defines the country's position in international relations. It places Cambodia within the Soviet Union's orbit. The country's primary enemies, according to the Constitution, are "the Chinese expansionists and hegemonists in Beijing, acting in collusion with United States imperialism and other powers."
The Constitution guarantees a broad range of civil liberties and fundamental rights. Citizens are to be equal before the law and are entitled to enjoy the same rights and duties regardless of sex, religion, or race. They have the right to participate in the political, economic, social, and cultural life of the country and to be paid according to the amount and quality of work they perform. Men and women are entitled to equal pay for equal work. All individuals--including monks and soldiers--over the age of eighteen may vote, and citizens over twenty-one may run for election. The Constitution also guarantees the inviolability of people and of their homes; privacy of correspondence; freedom from illegal search and arrest; the right to claim reparation for damages caused by illegal actions of the state, social organizations, and their personnel; and freedom of speech, of the press, and of assembly. The exercise of fundamental rights, however, is subject to certain restrictions. For example, an act may not injure the honor of other persons, nor should it adversely affect the mores and customs of society, or public order, or national security. In line with the principle of socialist collectivism, citizens are obligated to carry out "the state's political line and defend collective property."
The Constitution also addresses principles governing culture, education, social welfare, and public health. Development of language, literature, the arts, and science and technology is stressed, along with the need for cultural preservation, tourist promotion, and cultural cooperation with foreign countries.
Provisions for state organs are in the constitutional chapters dealing with the National Assembly, the Council of State, the Council of Ministers, the local people's revolutionary committees, and the judiciary. Fundamental to the operation of all public bodies is the principle that the KPRP serves as the most important political institution of the state. Intermediary linkages between the state bureaucracy and grass-roots activities are provided by numerous organizations affiliated with the KUFNCD (see The Kampuchean (or Khmer) United Front for National Construction and Defense , this ch.).
Government structure
An administrative infrastructure, functioning under the KPRC, was more or less in place between 1979 and 1980. With the promulgation of the Constitution in June 1981, new organs, such as the National Assembly, the Council of State, and the Council of Ministers, assumed KPRC functions (see fig. 11). These new bodies evolved slowly. It was not until February 1982 that the National Assembly enacted specific law for these bodies.
The National Assembly
The "supreme organ of state power" is the National Assembly, whose deputies are directly elected for five-year terms. The assembly's 117 seats were filled on May 1, 1981, the date of the PRK's first elections. (The KNUFNS had nominated 148 candidates.) The voter turnout was reported as 99.17 percent of the electorate, which was divided into 20 electoral districts.
During its first session, held from June 24 to June 27, the assembly adopted the new Constitution and elected members of the state organs set up under the Constitution. The assembly had been empowered to adopt or to amend the Constitution and the laws and to oversee their implementation; to determine domestic and foreign policies; to adopt economic and cultural programs and the state budget; and to elect or to remove its own officers and members of the Council of State and of the Council of Ministers. The assembly also was authorized to levy, revise, or abolish taxes; to decide on amnesties; and to ratify or to abrogate international treaties. As in other socialist states, the assembly's real function is to endorse the legislative and administrative measures initiated by the Council of State and by the Council of Ministers, both of which serve as agents of the ruling KPRP.
The National Assembly meets twice a year and may hold additional sessions if needed. During the periods between its sessions, legislative functions are handled by the Council of State. Bills are introduced by the Council of State, the Council of Ministers, the assembly's several commissions (legislative committees), chairman of the KUFNCD, and heads of other organizations. Individual deputies are not entitled to introduce bills.
Once bills, state plans and budgets, and other measures are introduced, they are studied first by the assembly's commissions, which deal with legislation, economic planning, budgetary matters, and cultural and social affairs. Then they go to the assembly for adoption. Ordinary bills are passed by a simple majority (by a show of hands). Constitutional amendments require a two-thirds majority. The Council of State must promulgate an adopted bill within thirty days of its passage. Another function of the assembly is to oversee the affairs of the Council of Ministers, which functions as the cabinet. Assembly members may make inquiries of cabinet officials, but they are not entitled to call for votes of confidence in the cabinet. Conversely, the Council of Ministers is not empowered to dissolve the National Assembly.
The Constitution states that in case of war or under "other exceptional circumstances," the five-year life of the Assembly may be extended by decree. In 1986 the assembly's term was extended for another five years, until 1991.
The Council of State
The National Assembly elects seven of its members to the Council of State. After the assembly's five-year term, council members remain in office until a new assembly elects a new council. The chairman of the council serves as the head of state, but the power to serve as ex officio supreme commander of the armed forces was deleted from the final draft of the Constitution.
The council's seven members are among the most influential leaders of the PRK. Between sessions of the National Assembly, the Council of State carries out the assembly's duties. It may appoint or remove--on the recommendation of the Council of Ministers-- cabinet ministers, ambassadors, and envoys accredited to foreign governments. In addition, the Council of State organizes elections to the National Assembly, convenes regular and special sessions of the assembly, promulgates and interprets the Constitution and the laws, reviews judicial decisions, rules on pardons and on commutations of sentences, and ratifies or abrogates treaties. Foreign diplomatic envoys present their letters of accreditation to the Council of State.
The Council of Ministers
The government's top executive organ is the Council of Ministers, or cabinet, which in late 1987 was headed by Hun Sen (as it had been since January 1985). Apart from the prime minister (formally called chairman), the Council of Ministers has two deputy prime ministers (vice chairmen) and twenty ministers. The National Assembly elects the council's ministers for five-year terms. They are responsible collectively to the assembly. When the assembly is not in session, they are responsible to the Council of State. The prime minister must be a member of the assembly; other council members, however, need not be. The council's five-year term continues without hiatus until a new cabinet is formed after general elections.
The Council of Ministers meets weekly in an executive session, which is attended by the prime minister, the deputy prime ministers, and a chief of staff who is called the Minister in Charge of the Office of the Council of Ministers. The executive group prepares an agenda for deliberation and adoption by the council's monthly plenary session. (A secretary general of the Council of Ministers provides administrative support for the cabinet.) The executive group also addresses measures for implementing the plenary session's decisions, and it reviews and coordinates the work of government agencies at all levels. Decisions made in the executive sessions are "collective," whereas those in the plenary sessions are by a majority. Representatives of KUFNCD and other mass organizations, to which all citizens may belong, may be invited to attend plenary sessions of the council "when [it is] discussing important issues." These representatives may express their views but they are not allowed to vote.
Government ministries are in charge of agriculture; communications, transport, and posts; education; finance; foreign affairs; health; home and foreign trade; industry; information and culture; interior; justice; national defense; planning; and social affairs and invalids. In addition, the cabinet includes a minister for agricultural affairs and rubber plantations, who is attached to the Office of the Council of Ministers; a minister in charge of the Office of the Council of Ministers; a secretary general of the Office of the Council of Ministers, who is also in charge of transport and of Khmer-Thai border defense networks; a director of the State Affairs Inspectorate; and the president-director general of the People's National Bank of Kampuchea.
The Office of the Council of Ministers serves as the administrative nerve center of the government. Directed by its cabinet-rank minister, this office is supposed "to prepare, facilitate, coordinate, unify, and guide all activities of individual ministries and localities." Fiscal inspection of public institutions is the responsibility of the State Affairs Inspectorate, which has branch offices in all provinces.
The Judiciary
The restoration of law and order has been one of the more pressing tasks of the Heng Samrin regime. Since 1979 the administration of justice has been in the hands of people's revolutionary courts that were set up hastily in Phnom Penh and in other major provincial cities. A new law dealing with the organization of courts and with the Office of Public Prosecutor was promulgated in February 1982. Under this law, the People's Supreme Court became the highest court of the land.
The judicial system comprises the people's revolutionary courts, the military tribunals, and the public prosecutors' offices. The Council of State may establish additional courts to deal with special cases. The Council of Ministers, on the recommendations of local administrative bodies called people's revolutionary committees, appoints judges and public prosecutors. Two or three people's councillors (the equivalents of jurors or of assessors) assist the judges, and they have the same power as the judges in passing sentence (see Protection Under the Law , ch. 5).
Local People's Revolutionary Committees
In late 1987, the country was divided into eighteen provinces (khet) and two special municipalities (krong), Phnom Penh and Kampong Saom, which are under direct central government control. The provinces were subdivided into about 122 districts (srok), 1,325 communes (khum), and 9,386 villages (phum). The subdivisions of the municipalities were wards (sangkat).
An elective body, consisting of a chairman (president), one or more vice chairmen, and a number of committee members, runs each people's revolutionary committee. These elective bodies are chosen by representatives of the next lower level people's revolutionary committees at the provincial and district levels. At the provincial and district levels, where the term of office is five years, committee members need the additional endorsement of officials representing the KUFNCD and other affiliated mass organizations. At the commune and ward level, the members of the people's revolutionary committees are elected directly by local inhabitants for a three-year term.
Before the first local elections, which were held in February and March 1981, the central government appointed local committee officials. In late 1987, it was unclear whether the chairpersons of the local revolutionary committees reported to the Office of the Council of Ministers or to the
Ministry of Interior .
Please Read more Detail!
Posted by
Simleboy
at
01:09
0
comments
Labels:
សាធារណរដ្ឋប្រជាមានិតកម្ពុជ
Older Posts
Home
Subscribe to:
Posts (Atom)
FEEDJIT Live Traffic Feed
Feedjit Live Blog Stats
Grab this Widget ~ Blogger Accessories
Sing Song Phreab Sovath
preap sovath
Vedio Khmer Moden
Khmer Karaoke
Click here to listend Sing Song
ADB food aid package being misused:
(1)
Arahan part dubbed khmer
(1)
Cambodia song Video
(1)
Cambodian coup of 1970
(1)
From brothel to boardroom
(1)
kanha
(1)
Karaoke khmer lievathina
(1)
Karaoke khmer pop
(1)
Karaoke khmer sovannareach
(1)
Karaoke khmer today for you
(1)
Karaoke pop song
(2)
Khmer Empire
(1)
Khmer Movies Jompa Thong
(1)
Khmer Movies Story - Jompa Thoung
(1)
Khmer Movies Story -Tirk Phnaek neang kor
(1)
Khmer Movies Tom Teav
(1)
Khmer Romvung Sarvan lamleav Romkbaj Sweet
(1)
Khmer Song for Khmer that like listend Song
(1)
Khmer Song General old and new
(1)
Khmer Song Generally for People khmer
(1)
King Norodom Sihanouk នរោត្តម សីហនុ
(1)
Kingdom of Cambodia
(1)
Love Meaning
(1)
Midada
(1)
Midada.
(1)
Nisal
(1)
Phreab Sovath and Other Singer
(1)
Pich Sophea
(1)
Pich Sophea Song
(1)
PPenh braces for Om Tuk
(1)
Regnal titles
(1)
Sing Song Heang Molina
(1)
Sing Song Phreab Sovath
(1)
Sing Song Phreab Sovath and other Singer
(1)
Sing Song Samuth and other
(1)
Sing Song Samuth Sothea and General
(1)
Sing Song Sokun Kanha
(1)
Sing Song Sokun Nisal and Phreab Sovath
(1)
Sing Song Sokunkanh
(1)
Sing Song Sovannarach and Phreab Sovath
(1)
Sing Song Sovannareach Sokunkanha Evaphena Panha
(1)
Song Khmer for People khmer
(1)
Song khmer General Singer by Sovath
(1)
Song Khmer Singer by Phreab Sovath
(1)
Song khmer Singer by Phreab Sovath and Other Singer
(1)
Song old khmer
(1)
Song Rormvung Singer Samuth and other Singer
(1)
Sovannarach
(1)
Sovannareach
(1)
STEP BY STEP - Maha Ghosananda
(1)
The Meaning Of Love
(2)
Vedio khmer
(1)
Vedio Khmer New Year and Wedding
(1)
Video Khmer song
(1)
សាធារណរដ្ឋប្រជាមានិតកម្ពុជ
(1)
គេហទំព័រអង់គ្លេស
Adulkonraeng Anokamo Bingkay Ebookhelp4u Enday Erickamaeball Heinzbadz Hussain Ipanks Jerrieleufc Johny Joy Ball Marvz18 Meta-opinion Opinionpinoy Phantom Photojaye Ruthkt Seenread Taher Tipsytips