the Carver Family
» Jimmy Stewart
the Carver Family
SRCarver.com
Links
Carver Photo Gallery
Carver Webmail
Pages
About Us
Amendment II
Army Security Agency
Dancing in the Rain
Facts about Iraq
Fascinating!
Sidewalk Artist
Sidewalk Artist - Part 2
The Lego Church
World’s Coolist Clock
Favorite Jokes
Favorite Quotations
Favorite Videos
Favorite YouTube Videos
God and Country
Ann-Margret
Captain Kangaroo
David McNerney
December 7, 1941
Flip Side of Hollywood
Folding the Flag
George W. Bush
James Cathey
Jane Fonda
Jimmy Stewart
John Wayne
November 11, 1918
Paul Harvey
The WW II Monopoly Game
Tiger Woods
Memorials
The Good Old Days
The Patriot Guard Riders
A Few Mission Photos
A Month in the North Texas PGR
Escorting SPC Franklin
Making A Difference
Traveling Wall Escort
Under the Leather
Video Tributes to the PGR
Login
Username:
Password:
Remember me
Jimmy Stewart
This was copied from Wikipedia. The underlined links will take you to the relevant places on the Wikipedia website.
Brig. Gen. James Maitland Stewart, United States Air Force
Col. James M. Stewart
Allegiance
United States of America
Service/branch
United States Air Force Reserve
United States Army Air Corps
Years of service
1941-1968
Rank
Brigadier General
(advanced in rank in 1959)
Battles/wars
World War II Vietnam War
Awards
Distinguished Service Medal French Croix de Guerre
with Palm Distinguished Flying Cross
(2) Air Medal
(4) Army Commendation Medal Armed Forces Reserve Medal Presidential Medal of Freedom
The Stewart family had deep military roots as both grandfathers had fought in the
Civil War , and his father had served during both the
Spanish-American War
and
World War I . Since Stewart considered his father to be the biggest influence on his life, it was not surprising that when another war eventually came, he too served. Unlike his family’s previous infantry service, Stewart chose to become a military flyer. [25]
An early interest in flying led Stewart to gain his
Private Pilot License
in 1935 and
Commercial Pilot Certificate
in 1938. He often flew cross country to visit his parents in Pennsylvania, navigating by the railroad tracks. [26]
Nearly two years before the December 1941
attack on Pearl Harbor , Stewart had accumulated over 400 hours of flying time. [27]
Considered a highly proficient pilot, he even entered a cross-country race as a co-pilot in 1939. [28]
Along with musician/composer
Hoagy Carmichael , seeing the need for trained war pilots, Stewart teamed with other Hollywood moguls and put their own money into creating a flying school in
Glendale, Arizona , which they named Thunderbird Field. This airfield trained more than 200,000 pilots during the War, became the origin of the Flying Thunderbirds, and is now the home of
Thunderbird School of Global Management . [29]
Later in 1940, Stewart was drafted into the
United States Army Air Corps
(USAAC) but was rejected due to a weight problem. The USAAC had strict height and weight requirements for new recruits and Stewart was five pounds under the standard. To get up to 148 pounds he sought out the help of Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer’s muscle man, Don Loomis, who was legendary for his ability to add or subtract pounds in his studio gymnasium. Stewart subsequently attempted to enlist in the USAAC but still came in under the weight requirement although he persuaded the AAC enlistment officer to run new tests, this time passing the weigh-in, [30]
with the result that Stewart successfully enlisted in the Army in March 1941. He became the first major American movie star to wear a military uniform in
World War II .
Since the United States had not entered the conflict and the Army was unwilling to put celebrities on the front lines, Stewart was initially held back from combat duty. Although he enlisted as a private, he earned a commission as a second lieutenant and completed pilot training. During training, his previous experience was downplayed as he was concerned that his expertise would relegate him to instructor duties “behind the lines.” [31]
His fears were confirmed when he was subsequently stationed in
Albuquerque, New Mexico , becoming an instructor pilot for the
B-17 Flying Fortress .
The only public appearances after he went into flight school were limited engagements scheduled by the Air Corps. “Stewart appeared several times on network radio with
Edgar Bergen
and
Charlie McCarthy . Shortly after Pearl Harbor, he performed with
Orson Welles ,
Edward G. Robinson ,
Walter Huston
and
Lionel Barrymore
in an all-network radio program called
We Hold These Truths , dedicated to the 150th anniversary of the Bill of Rights. But mostly, Stewart’s days and nights were spent preparing for his upcoming flight tests, ground school and academic examinations for his commission.” [32]
“Still, the war was moving on. For the 36-year-old Stewart, combat duty seemed far away and unreachable and he had no clear plans for the future. But then a rumor that Stewart would be taken off flying status and assigned to making training films or selling bonds called for his immediate and decisive action, because what he dreaded most was the hope-shattering spectre of a dead end.” [33]
So he appealed to his commander, a pre-war aviator, who understood the situation and reassigned him to a unit going overseas.
Col. Stewart being awarded the
Croix de guerre
with palm by Lt. Gen. Henri Valin, Chief of Staff of the French Air Force, for his role in the liberation of France.
USAF
photo.
In August 1943 he was finally assigned to the 445th Bombardment Group in
Sioux City , Iowa, first as Operations Officer of the 703rd Bombardment Squadron and then its commander. In December, the 445th Bombardment Group flew its
B-24 Liberator
bombers to
RAF Tibenham ,
England
and immediately began combat operations. While flying missions over Germany, Stewart was promoted to Major. In March 1944, he was transferred as group operations officer to the 453rd Bombardment Group, a new B-24 unit that had been experiencing difficulties. As a means to inspire his new group, Stewart flew as command pilot in the lead B-24 on numerous missions deep into Nazi-occupied Europe. These missions went
uncounted
at Stewart’s orders. His “official” total is listed as 20 and is limited to those with the 445th. In 1944, he twice received the
Distinguished Flying Cross
for actions in combat and was awarded the
Croix de Guerre . He also received the
Air Medal
with three
oak leaf clusters . In July 1944, after flying 20 combat missions, Stewart was made
Chief of Staff
of the 2nd Combat Bombardment Wing of the
Eighth Air Force . Before the war ended, he was promoted to colonel, one of only a few Americans to rise from private to colonel in four years.
At the beginning of June 1945, Stewart was the presiding officer of the
court-martial
of a pilot and navigator who were charged with dereliction of duty when they
accidentally bombed the Swiss city of Zurich
the previous March the first instance of U.S. personnel being tried over an attack on a neutral country. The Court acquitted the accused. [34]
Stewart continued to play an active role in the
United States Air Force Reserve
after the war, achieving the rank of
Brigadier General
on
23 July
1959 . [35]
Stewart did not often talk of his wartime service, perhaps due to his desire to be seen as a regular soldier doing his duty instead of as a celebrity. He did appear on the TV series,
The World At War
to discuss the
14 October
1943 , bombing mission to
Schweinfurt , which was the center of the German ball bearing manufacturing industry. This mission is known in USAF history as
Black Thursday
due to the incredibly high casualties it sustained; in total, 60 aircraft were lost out of 291 dispatched, as the raid consisting entirely of B-17s was unescorted all the way to Schweinfurt and back due to the current escort aircraft available lacking the range. Fittingly, he was identified only as “James Stewart, Squadron Commander” in the documentary.
He served as Air Force Reserve commander of
Dobbins Air Reserve Base
in the early 1950s. In 1966, Brigadier General James Stewart flew as a non duty observer in a
B-52
on a bombing mission during the Vietnam conflict. At the time of his B-52 flight, he refused the release of any publicity regarding his participation as he did not want it treated as a stunt, but as part of his job as an officer in the Air Force Reserve. After 27 years of service, Stewart retired from the Air Force on
31 May
1968 . [36]
© 2015 the Carver Family