Short circuits and open endings – a conversation with Micol Assaël — Kunstjournalen B-post
Fortsett til innholdet.
|
Gå til navigasjonen
Nettstedskart
Tilgjengelighet
Kontakt
Søk
bare i denne seksjonen
Avansert søk…
Seksjoner
Forside
Personlige verktøy
Logg inn
Du er her:
Forside
→
Kunstjournalen B-post 2009
→
Short circuits and open endings – a conversation with Micol Assaël
Info
Short circuits and open endings – a conversation with Micol Assaël
"I attempt to locate the dark zones of our understanding. To root out the limits, and to see how far they can be forced, to see what happens if they are violated. I use dangerous materials because the best way to try to understand the nature of things is to get myself into trouble – and then to find the way out of it. The unit of measure remains as allways – man.”(i) - Micol Assaël
By Jannecke Heien
Mindfall, Manifesta, San Sebastián, 2004. Engines,
fuses, petrol, cable, smoke and table. 557 x 252 cm. Courtesy of the
artist and Galleri Johann König, Berlin. «It is a sort of pilgrimage
that Assael envisions. In spite of their rough appearance, Assaël’s
sculptures and environments can function as a secret passage to
ethereal mental landscapes and distant emotional geographies. (…) They
emit a spiritual noise.» viii
What was it about this small web image of an installation that made
it stick to my memory and made me wish to find out all about it’s
context and origin? The documentation of Micol Assaël’s installation
Mindfall
gives the impression of worn-out machinery, abandoned
by its operators and heading towards the unknown. It makes me wonder
what happened in this room – what will develop here, and will it in any
way be possible to stop? Other parts of her work include large room
environments in which she by means of electronics and mechanics creates
(fascinating, in different ways charged) rooms where the viewer becomes
physically involved through the use of temperature, air flow and
electricity. A conversation with Assaël gives a glimpse into a way of
thinking where dreams and the as yet unmapped frontiers of natural
science become components in – and starting points of – art
production.
Micol Asaël lives and works in Rome and Moscow.
Kunstjournalen
met her at a balcony in Fyllingsdalen (in
June),short of sleepafter a long walk in the fair night.
Mindfall , Manifesta, San Sebastián, 2004.
Engines, fuses, petrol, cable, smoke and table. 557 x 252 cm. Courtesy
of the artist and Galleri Johann König, Berlin.
Jannecke Heien (JH):
I want to start by focusing a little to the
side of your art practice, because
when I read that you
practise rock climbing it struck me as kind of logic that it must be
interesting – and necessary – for you to investigate aspects of risk:
what it means and implies to take risks. Would you say that this link
is as evident to you?
Micol Assaël (MA):Actually I haven’t been climbing for the last four
years. However, when you are moving on a vertical stone wall you have
to be very aware of being in balance all the time; you have to feel
your center of gravity and never forget it, because if you lose it you
lose your equilibrium and fall into emptiness. It’s also a kind of
ballet, as every movement turns out to be very harmonic around your
center of gravity. So this practice is basically forcing you to be
harmonic while facing the fear of the void and the fear of falling. I
like dangerous situations and risk, but I feel a bit removed from it
now after so many years. I just think that taking risks and facing your
fears brings you into a zone where it’s necessary to react and
consequently live an epistemological experience. In this zone I want to
place art, as a completely free mental space.
JH:
I am fascinated with the atmosphere that you create with
these installations, and I am interested in knowing more about how
these works came into being. Can you describe the origin of some
of
your projects – starting with
Mindfall ? (Manifesta
2004)
MA: With
Mindfall
I wanted to explore the moment after a
short circuit; its natural, direct consequence. So I started to think
about a context for a burned out electrical device, and the work
started taking shape step by step. I went to a recycling facility where
they allowed me to climb around in mountains of industrial materials
and choose freely what I needed. I picked out a lot of old, electrical
engines from different kinds of applications and with different power.
A technician friend helped me set them up in order to make them running
again. We put capacitors on them, a type of batteries that are
necessary to provide enough power to start the engines. We lowered the
rpm of the machines in order to make them sound like they were
struggling hard, burning out under a big strain. Then we hid resistors
in the back of each engine and set up a hydraulic system pumping petrol
through tiny black tubes that looked like electrical cables. All the
connections between the engines where done by means of a hyper-chaotic
net of black wires. So when the engines were started, the petrol fell
onto the hot resistors inside, and they released burned smoke, filling
the air with hot petrol fumes.
Theory of Homogenous Turbulence , 2002.
Site specific intallation in the garden of Villa Medici-Accademia di
Francia, Rome. Fans, light, loudspeaker. Courtesy of the artist and
Galleri Johann König, Berlin
In San Sebastian I spent a month installing it all – it was like a
kind of sickness; there was a kind of impossibility to finishing the
work. I was making myself crazy with a lot of numbers and calculations
that were completely useless, and I tried to draw up a kind of manual
of my work based on the power of each single engine. In addition, I
guess that breathing petrol fumes for that long was also very bad for
my mind. When I chose the title, the meaning of this word was pretty
clear to me. I think it was sticking to a mostly present and nasty
state of mind, when you face the impossibility of thinking or
understanding. I think it is caused by the stress – the room was in
some way a sort of materialisation of my mind at that time. I also put
resistors between two sheets of glass to get them to fog up. I like to
think of it as a journey into my brain.
JH : Maybe because in my own practice, engines and
physical apparatus in an artistic context would represent material of
severe resistance, I find the form that you give your projects
intriguing. Did the fascination with engines come because this is a
foreign and hidden world for you – or on the contrary because it is a
familiar field; something you have a natural confidence working with,
and therefore see possibilities in?
MA:
No, it’s because it is a new world. I don’t know exactly how I began
working with engines and things like that. However, my first job was in
a foundry and I was very much fascinated by the tools we were using,
for example for cutting and cleaning the bronze or for moving very
heavy objects. Then again there was a sort of feticism of tools when I
was working as an assistant in Nunzio’s studio, in Rome, and also when
I was installing air conditioning systems with my technician friend
Carlo. Technology and how you build things, how you find solutions to
transform reality in order to use it for our own purpose has always
fascinated me. Engines and tools have their own inner power and
potential, which can also be scary sometimes.
JH:Mindfall
was reinstalled at Galleri Johann König in Berlin
2007, with music by the Finnish composer Mika Valnio, who basically
amplified the engine sounds. In a text by Francesco Stocchithe
atmosphere was described as “excruciating”(ii). In what way did you
feel that the sound piece completed or developed your concept?
MA: I invited Mika because his music has inspired me a lot in the
past. He uses sound really as a matter, and his practice seems to me
very close to that of a sculptor. So in a way his intervention on
Mindfall
completed it, added something really important and
strong. It was amazing, like he put my work into life; he woke it up.
Very intense.
JH:
In
Theory of Homogenous Turbulence , 2002, you’re
referring to Heidegger’s
The origin of the Artwork,
from Holzwege (iii).
Can you elaborate a bit on the
background of this focus? In addition, can you say a little about the
link between the Heidegger reference and the theory of physics referred
to in the title?
These gaps ... I think they are the main areas
where people can understand a little bit of reality.
MA: I wanted to do something about loss of control. This was during
a period when I was very into philosophy, and just after I’d gone to
Vorkuta in Siberia without any map, in the attempt of loosing myself in
vast, wild Russia. I used an open theory of physics, an unsolved
problem, as the title for this work, because the intention of the show
was to open up new ways of relating art to a text, to test the
possibility of an interacting meaning between the two. I think that
fields of knowledge, including that of art, are getting more and more
specific, often implying new languages that start complicating
interaction and communication within each field, such as in
mathematics. I also think that at this point it may be easier to
communicate and interact with unknown and foreign fields. There was a
direct relation between experiencing the work – with the sound, the
wind, the rotating light – and reading about a problem which has no
solution. Facing these kinds of things must be very similar to finding
yourself lost in the middle of a forest, not knowing wich way to go.
The physics problem was about the turbulence of fluids, and the work
itself was made out of air currents, which are fluid with an inner
turbulence. In the Holzwege, Heidegger is investigating the nature of
truth and its fight with darkness, or something like that. He is
talking about a zone again, the
Lichtung , which is an area in
the middle of the forest, free of trees, where the road suddenly stops.
And the work was also a
Lichtung .
Risk as archetype
JH:
Let’s talk about
Chizhevski Lessons , the
installation made for Kunsthalle Basel in 2007. In Polly Staple’s
words, “walking into the room, you immediately felt the electrostatic
charge of the piece – and with some force. It seemed to crinkle you up
around the edges, literally electrifying you, resulting in a space/time
dislocation at odds with the surroundings.” (iv) Who was Alexander
Chizevsky?
MA:Chizevsky was a Russian scientist who investigated the relation
between solar activity and incidents on earth. When he implied that the
Russian revolution was one of the incidents connected with the solar
activity, he was sentenced to hard labour and sent to Siberia, where he
spent many years working in the mines. While there, he constructed an
apparatus which was able to cleanse the air by means of electricity, in
order to make breathing easier for the miners. Rumours have it that
even Breznjev had one of these in his car. Apparently the Chizhevsky
lamp was able to make people younger and make wounds heal a lot faster.
The photographer who came to document our work in the laboratory in
Moscow was very ill with a bad cold and asthma, but while the generator
was working she was feeling good.
JH: I’d like to hear more about the collaboration documented in
the video shown in the adjacent room at Kunsthalle Basel. How did you
find the physicists who helped you develop the installation?
MA:It was totally by coincidence. You know, I’d been trying to
realize this idea for a long time, but people just told me I was crazy
and that there was no way it could be done. In Moscow in 2005, while
installing another project for the Moscow Biennale, this man approached
me, and it turned out he was a nuclear engineer from Murmansk. He was
the first person who took my idea into consideration. After a first,
somewhat troublesome process with him, the producer of the biennale
helped me find some other engineers, and he was really lucky to find
those guys. They developed several ways of realising the work, some
variants. We chose the one we liked the most, and started building it
shortly thereafter. We were working in an amazing laboratory which
looked like something straight out of
Metropolis . The three
engineers and the technician only spoke Russian, but we had two
interpreters, one from Tajikistan speaking a very basic English, and
one who was half African and who was always very curious to get to know
things from the engineers but never really in the mood to translate
what they were saying.
Formuška,
Kunsthalle
Fridericianum, Kassel, 2009. Photo: Nils Klinger. Takk til Galleria
Zero, Milano. The machine combines water and electricity to create
lightning and clouds of steam. The result is an installation affecting
the body and physical perception as well as the senses. Like in
'Chizhevsky Lessons'
in Basel in 2007, the installation
confronts the audience with the immaterial nature, yet natural and
mysterious power, of electricity.
JH : These scientific theories and experiments – when
you choose to focus on them in an exhibition, do you feel that you do
this because you want to pursue this fascination, or because you want
to communicate something?
MA: Both. I mean, it comes from a personal fascination, but I want
to share an experience. It’s something I would like to find myself in,
and that I also want to share. That’s very important. Because most of
the time you find yourself really alone when you experience something,
you just don’t know who to call, but then if you can share an
experience with somebody else it’s much more fun.
JH : Were you familiar with Moscow before you came to
work on the Moscow Biennale project?
MA: Not with Moscow, but I’d had a trip to Siberia, in the summer of
2001. I just had the feeling that I needed to escape very far from
everything, so I opened the atlas and I looked east for the last stop
of a railway line. This is how I found Vorkuta as the final destination
of the trip. The purpose was to make a book of drawings, like I did in
Iceland in 1999. I came to Russia by boat, arriving in the harbour of
Saint Petersburg from Helsinki on the cargo ship
Petsamo . The
trip was very long with few stops. From time to time the train was
split up and continued on different tracks, so if you were in the wrong
carriage, you could end up in a totally different place from where you
were supposed to go.
I got lost and ended up near Kotlas, which by the way was the
“target of opportunity” destroyed by Major Kong's
B-52
in the
climax of
Stanley
Kubrick 's
1964
film
Dr.
Strangelove .
I spent one week in a room on the
12 th
floor of the Hotel Vorkuta, with an astonishing view of
the vast tundra and the coal mines far away, constantly giving off a
dense, dark smoke. Vorkuta is very far to the north and in the summer
it never gets dark there. And it’s always raining. I’ll never forget
that landscape. I started my book of drawings in that room(v). I ate
nothing but smoked, salted fish with a delicious vodka from Vorkuta
that had an aluminium cap which, once opened, couldn’t be closed, so
the bottle had to be emptied. I also wrote down all the dreams I was
having.
Vorkuta , detail, «Rendez-vous», Museé
d’art Contemporain, Lyon, 2004. Ice covered table with high voltage
electrical circuits, installed in a refrigerated room, with an arm
chair holding 37C.
JH : Some of your works seem potentially dangerous to
the visitor. But rather than focus on danger I understand that you
explore what it means to take risk and you investigate the physical and
psychological reactions released when facing danger. How do you see
risk as especially central to us – now? Is there a relation between the
focus on risk and what is happening in the world, or what you are
witnessing yourself?
MA: Yes, I think so, the world is getting more and more dangerous.
Risk is kind of archetypic for me as a concept. I’ve been studying
Kant’s
Critique of Judgement , and he’s also talking about this
sublime feeling. I guess this is also related to the idea of risk, to
face something that scares you and is bigger than you. I also found
that, in an analytical way, to be confident with this attitude or with
risk itself brings you closer to an edge. Thus it gives you a chance to
experience what Heidegger calls “the opening”(vi), where you can also
experience art. It’s kind of an in-between zone. I have always been
interested in these in-between areas, such as in-between dream and
consciousness. These gaps ... I think they are the main areas where
people can understand a little bit of reality. So being exposed to a
risk I think forces you to understand somehow what you are facing and
what you have to deal with.
Inner Disorder #1 , 2001-09. 500 drawings
in 7 vitrine cabinets. «The title refers to a composition by the
mucician Psykovsky, but also to quantum mechanics and particle physics,
in a way.»
JH : It’s interesting, I heard a lecture from the
Frieze Art Fair
talking about how we all seem to be in denial when
it comes to the biggest risk we are now facing – the climate change.
Now, maybe it’s not relevant to you, but to me these works of yours may
function as a sort of reminder that one should be a little bit braver
and look towards this risk, instead of just looking the other
way.
MA: Yes, I agree.
JH:
Tell us about the original project idea that you planned for
the Reykjavik Art Festival in 2005 –
Waiting for the Unknown .
I know that you weren’t allowed to install this, but would you care to
describe the initial idea/concept?
MA: Jessica Morgan from the Tate Modern in London was curating a
show in several different sites spread all around Iceland. She offered
me a young volcano on a small island in the south as the venue for my
work. It was really difficult to deal with such a live spot. When I
first visited Heymaey, I was very impressed by the intense presence of
the small mountain; you could really feel that that mountain was alive,
though asleep. It was quite warm at the top, and there was also smoke
coming out here and there. I spent a lot of time at the top of the
crater, it was amazingly beautiful. Of course I wanted to deal with its
power, so I was thinking of doing something with copper, but the
mountain was also very big and it’s not possible to know in advance
when it will wake up and erupt again with a big blast, covering the
whole island in dark ashes. So I came up with this idea of dealing
directly with the unpredictable eruption and I decided to install 1 ton
of TNT at the top of the crater, so that when the volcano Eldfell would
wake up again, its explosion would also start off the TNT explosion,
and this would have left another crater next to the volcano one.
In the end it was not possible to get hold of the explosives, and I
had to make a publication in newspaper format. It’s about the project
and its possible consequences, with lots of interviews with geologists
and volcanologists, and also witness statements from the eruption in
1973 when Eldfell rose up from the sea.
The audience were flown to Heymaey and we all walked up to the
crater. We had some fireworks over there and ate raw whale meat with a
special bread cooked on the hottests spot of the volcano, a place only
one woman knows, and of course we drank
brennivin .
Nýidalur,
2001. Permanent installation in
the village of Santa Casciano dei Bagni. The title refers to the place
in the Icelandic desert where Assaël made her first book of drawings.
All images courtesy of the artist and Galleri Johann König,
Berlin.
JH : The art critic Polly Staple sees what you do as
”apocalyptic”. Is this an interpretation you identify with?
MA: No, I don’t understand where that comes from. In my opinion she
put too much emphasis upon this in that article, though it is still a
very good text. (vii)
JH : Earlier you've mentioned Bruce Naumann, Gordon
Matta-Clarck, and Richard Serra as artists who’ve been important to
you, and from your tattoo one gathers that you have a soft spot for
Lawrence Weiner. Which artists do you find inspiring among your
contemporaries?
MA: Gregor Schneider, David Zink Y, Koo Jeong A, Pawel Althamer,
Christoph Buchel, Gabriel Orozco, Domique Gonzales Foerster, and many
others.
JH : In what directions do you want to continue working
in the years to come?
MA: I would like to carry on the collaboration with the Russian
engineers and the Elektroenergeticefsky Institute, to do more works
related to low temperature, electricity and sound as raw materials. I
want to work with glass again and maybe also bees. I also have this
dream of working in Svalbard at some point.
i Ester Cohen,
http://www.johannkoenig.de/23/micol_assaël/texts.htm
ii Francesco Stocchi: “Clean Distortions.
Spike -15, 2008, pp. 34-35.
iii “ Off the Beaten Track
( Holzwege)
1950
iv Polly Staple: “Risk Assessment”,
Frieze
Magazine , Issue N° 1 10, October 2007
Free Fall in the Vortex of Time
v “ Free Fall in the Vortex of Time, ( 2005)
is a book of 120 pages, collages of small papers of many different
kinds, the ones you use to find in your pocket and normally throw away.
For about a year and a half, maybe two, I used to write numbers on
these papers: additions of minutes, hours and dates starting from the
time I was starting the drawing. It was a period when I was nearly
incapable of waiting, so I found this system of keeping myself busy all
the time. The book itself is a day of 24 hours from many different
dates”.
vi «The art work opens up in its own way the Being
of beings. This opening up, i.e., this deconcealing, i.e., the truth of
beings, happens in the work. Art is truth setting itself to work.”
Heidegger, Martin,
The Origin of the Work of Art in Poetry,
Language, Thought . Trans., Hofstadter, Albert. New York: Harper
& Row, 1971. p. 39
vii Polly Staple: “Risk Assessment”,
Frieze
Magazine , Issue N° 1 10, October 2007
viii
Massimiliano
Gioni, "Future greats part 1", Art Review March 2008
Side-alternativer
Skriv ut
In this issue
Short circuits and open endings – a conversation with Micol Assaël
About Kunstjournalen B-post
Ordering and subscription
Contributors
Battle and consensus - art and public space
2013: Assembly, Momentum, LIAF
2012: Sound
2010/2011: The Past Now!
2009:
Feed Your Darlings
2008:
Art as Notions of the impossible made possible?
2007: The 00-decade
2006: Political?
Languages
English
Norsk
Kunstjournalen B-post - kunstjournalen (at) kunstjournalen.no
Bygget med Plone
Gyldig XHTML
Gyldig CSS
Section 508
WCAG