Spacium
Spacium
A blog to Share every thing about astronautics, aeronautics,aerospace.....
Innovations,discoveries,designs,toughs,revolutionary
concepts,ideologies,creations.....
Its a blog of aero
buddies.
Wednesday, 15 August 2012
Life on Mars exists!! Are we going to MARS-The Next Earth soon...?
For centuries people have speculated about the possibility of
life on
Mars
owing to the planet's proximity and similarity to
Earth
!!.... Do u think NASA's "curiosity" solves this mystery?
What NASA rover "curiosity" going to find on mars....
What the conditions actually exist there ...? I started to collect all the facts....here are some
Mars: Extreme Planet
Travelers of the Future, Beware!
Mars is no place for the faint-heated.
Arid, rocky, cold and
apparently lifeless,
the Red Planet offers few hospitalizes. Fans of
extreme
sports can rejoice, however, for the Red Planet will
challenge
even the hardiest souls among us. Home to the largest volcano in the
solar system, the
deepest canyon and crazy weather and temperature
patterns, Mars looms as the ultimate lonely planet destination.
Early Times
The first sightings of Mars
1500s
How far away is Mars?
1600s
The telescope helps us see Mars.
1700s
Does Mars have ice caps?
Is Mars inhabited?
1800s
The canal craze begins
1900s and beyond
The NASA Missions
If you dream of going, here's what to expect:
Mars Quick Facts:
Learn about the similarities and differences between Mars and Earth, and about the two small moons that orbit Mars.
"Mars" here on Earth:   If you want to know what it might be like to spend time in the Martian environment,
visit the
Haughton-Mars Project ,
which tested prototype Mars astronaut suits on July 26, 2000 and
August 3, 2000.
The Haughton impact crater is in the Canadian high
arctic, and has a rocky
polar desert setting
somewhat
like Mars--though, of course, nothing on Earth comes close to the extreme conditions on the red planet.
Other places on Earth that can help us understand Mars include:
Death Valley, California, where Ubehebe crater and "Mars Hill" have geologic features similar to those on Mars C hanneled Scabland in Washington, where catastrophic floods swept
through the land much like what happened long ago in the Ares Vallis
flood plain where Mars Pathfinder landed Permafrost in Siberia, Alaska and Antarctica, where subsurface water-ice and small life forms exist Mono Lake, California, which is a 700,000-year-old evaporative lake
that compares to Gusev Crater, a basin on Mars where water once was
likely
Volcanoes in Hawaii, which are like those on Mars, though much smaller
Quick Facts
Earth/Mars Comparison
Mars
Earth
Average Distance from Sun
142 million miles
93 million miles
Average Speed in Orbiting Sun
14.5 miles per second
18.5 miles per second
Diameter
4,220 miles
7,926 miles
Tilt of Axis
25 degrees
23.5 degrees
Length of Year
687 Earth Days
365.25 Days
Length of Day
24 hours 37 minutes
23 hours 56 minutes
Gravity
.375 that of Earth
2.66 times that of Mars
Temperature
Average -81 degrees F
Average 57 degrees F
Atmosphere
mostly carbon dioxide some water vapor
nitrogen, oxygen, argon, others
# of Moons
2
1
More Information on Mars:
Mars in the Solar System How does Mars measure up against the other planets?
Martian Moons:
The diabolical duo:
Phobos & Deimos.
Martian Seasons: What's the weather like?
Martian Year
For any planet, a year is the time it takes to make one orbit around the sun.
Because Mars is farther away from the sun, it has to travel a greater
distance around the sun.
It takes Mars about twice as long as it does
for Earth to make one circle around the sun.
Therefore, a year on Mars
lasts twice as long.
Links: http://mars.jpl.nasa.gov/allaboutmars
Posted by
Ganesh BBV
at
13:48
No comments:
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share to Pinterest
Tuesday, 14 August 2012
Third X-51A Hypersonic Test Targeted For Mid-August
http://www.boeing.com/defense-space/military/waverider/docs/X-51A_overview.pdf
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Boeing_X-51
The
Boeing X-51
(
X-51 WaveRider ) is an unmanned
scramjet
demonstration aircraft for
hypersonic
( Mach
6, approximately 4,000 miles per hour (6,400 km/h) at altitude)
flight testing . It successfully completed its first
free-flight
on 26 May 2010 and also achieved the longest duration flight at speeds over Mach 5.
The X-51 " WaveRider " earned its name because it rides its own shockwave. The program is run as a cooperative effort of the
United States Air Force ,
DARPA ,
NASA ,
Boeing , and
Pratt & Whitney Rocketdyne . The program is managed by the Propulsion Directorate within the
United States
Air Force Research Laboratory
(AFRL).
The X-51 had its first captive flight attached to a
B-52
in December 2009.
An official post by Aviation weekly says.....
ATLANTA — U.S. Air Force officials say the third, and possibly final,
attempt to reach or exceed sustained speeds beyond Mach 5 with the
X-51A hypersonic demonstrator is set for Aug. 14.
Describing the X-51A as “the key to the next step in
hypersonics,” Air Force Research Laboratory Aerospace Systems Director
Doug Bowers says that even the mixed success of the initial X-51A
flights has proved invaluable to advancing the state-of-the-art.
Speaking at the American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics Joint
Propulsion Conference earlier this week, Bowers said, “The first X-51
was mostly a success, the second flight was a hung store [failed to
release from the B-2 mothership] and on the third the inlet started but
un-started. Every flight test we’ve had has been a learning opportunity,
and until we took it to flight we really didn’t know the unknowns.”
The latest X-51A includes a series of hardware and software
changes to counter issues that are thought to have brought the last
flight to a premature end after only 9.5 sec. of powered flight at
around Mach 5. The second flight, on June 13, 2011, ended when the
vehicle’s Pratt & Whitney Rocketdyne SJX61-2 engine failed to
transition from ethylene fuel to JP-7. The ethylene is used to start the
scramjet, while JP-7 is used for sustained flight.
Designed to demonstrate technologies for sustained,
air-breathing hypersonic flight up to Mach 6.5, the first flight of the
X-51 on May 25, 2010, reached Mach 4.88. Although the first X-51A did
not reach Mach 5, the test was considered a technical success as some
143 sec. of the vehicle’s 210 sec. of total powered flight time was
under scramjet power, making the flight 11 times longer than any
previous air-breathing flight with a scramjet. A fourth X-51A is close
to completion at Boeing’s Palmdale, Calif., facilities, but is currently
not funded for flight testing.
Posted by
Ganesh BBV
at
11:29
No comments:
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share to Pinterest
How X-51A Scram jet works
Posted by
Ganesh BBV
at
11:27
No comments:
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share to Pinterest
Home
Subscribe to:
Posts (Atom)
About Me
Ganesh BBV
View my complete profile
Followers
Blog Archive
▼
2012
(3)
▼
August
(3)
Life on Mars exists!! Are we going to MARS-The Nex...
Third X-51A Hypersonic Test Targeted For Mid-Augus...
How X-51A Scram jet works
Simple template. Template images by
enot-poloskun . Powered by
Blogger .