02 | November | 2011 | Mannaismaya Adventure's Blog
Mannaismaya Adventure's Blog
EXperience The Beauty of Indonesia !
Menu
Skip to content
5,008,269 spam
blocked by
Akismet
Archives
October 2015  (47)
September 2015  (54)
August 2015  (45)
July 2015  (55)
June 2015  (91)
May 2015  (98)
April 2015  (124)
March 2015  (130)
February 2015  (107)
January 2015  (117)
December 2014  (103)
November 2014  (101)
October 2014  (133)
September 2014  (141)
August 2014  (137)
July 2014  (134)
June 2014  (111)
May 2014  (100)
April 2014  (124)
March 2014  (115)
February 2014  (120)
January 2014  (125)
December 2013  (96)
November 2013  (77)
October 2013  (150)
September 2013  (132)
August 2013  (142)
July 2013  (154)
June 2013  (103)
May 2013  (103)
April 2013  (104)
March 2013  (122)
February 2013  (76)
January 2013  (107)
December 2012  (90)
November 2012  (91)
October 2012  (109)
September 2012  (94)
August 2012  (114)
July 2012  (97)
June 2012  (115)
May 2012  (102)
April 2012  (141)
March 2012  (148)
February 2012  (150)
January 2012  (154)
December 2011  (146)
November 2011  (134)
October 2011  (88)
September 2011  (97)
August 2011  (154)
July 2011  (104)
June 2011  (129)
May 2011  (108)
April 2011  (147)
March 2011  (216)
February 2011  (110)
January 2011  (128)
December 2010  (104)
November 2010  (128)
October 2010  (61)
September 2010  (59)
August 2010  (102)
July 2010  (50)
June 2010  (37)
Blog Stats
1,680,910 hits
November 2011
M
T
W
T
F
S
S
« Oct
Dec »
1 2 3 4 5 6
7 8 9 10 11 12 13
14 15 16 17 18 19 20
21 22 23 24 25 26 27
28 29 30
Blog Stats
1,680,910 hits
Blogroll
https://www.vahomeloancenters.org/.
Meta
Register
Log in
Entries
RSS
Comments
RSS
WordPress.com
Flag Counter
Daily Archives:
November 2, 2011
Củ Chi tunnels and Vinh Moc tunnels
November 2, 2011
by
mannaismayaadventure
0
Củ Chi tunnels
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Part of the tunnel complex at Củ Chi, this tunnel has been made wider and taller to accommodate tourists.
The tunnels of Củ Chi  are an immense network of connecting underground tunnels located in the Cu Chi district of Ho Chi Minh City (Saigon), Vietnam, and are part of a much larger network of tunnels that underlie much of the country. The Củ Chi tunnels were the location of several military campaigns during the Vietnam War, and were the Viet Cong’s base of operations for the Tet Offensive in 1968.
The tunnels were used by Viet Cong guerrillas as hiding spots during combat, as well as serving as communication and supply routes, hospitals, food and weapon caches and living quarters for numerous guerrilla fighters. The tunnel systems were of great importance to the Viet Cong in their resistance to American forces, through which they secured American withdrawal from Vietnam and ultimate military success.
Life in the tunnels
American soldiers used the term “Black echo” to describe the conditions within the tunnels. For the Viet Cong, life in the tunnels was difficult. Air, food and water were scarce and the tunnels were infested with ants, poisonous centipedes, scorpions, spiders and vermin. Most of the time, guerrillas would spend the day in the tunnels working or resting and come out only at night to scavenge for supplies, tend their crops or engage the enemy in battle. Sometimes, during periods of heavy bombing or American troop movement, they would be forced to remain underground for many days at a time. Sickness was rampant among the people living in the tunnels, especially malaria, which was the second largest cause of death next to battle wounds. A captured Viet Cong report suggests that at any given time half of a  PLAF  unit had malaria and that “one-hundred percent had intestinal parasites of significance”.
U.S. campaigns against the tunnels
A trap door on the jungle floor leads down into the Củ Chi tunnels. Closed and camouflaged, it is almost undetectable.
The camouflaged trap door, now open.
The tunnels of Củ Chi did not go completely unnoticed by U.S. officials. They recognized the advantages that the Viet Cong held with the tunnels, and accordingly launched several major campaigns to search out and destroy the tunnel system. Among the most important of these were  Operation Crimp  and  Operation Cedar Falls .
Operation Crimp began on January 7, 1966, with  B-52  bombers dropping 30-ton loads of high explosive onto the region of Củ Chi, effectively turning the once lush jungle into a pockmarked moonscape. Eight thousand troops from the  U.S. 1st Infantry Division , 173rd Airborne Brigade , and the  1st Battalion, Royal Australian Regiment  combed the region looking for any clues of PLAF activity.
The operation was, for the most part, unsuccessful. On the occasion when troops found a tunnel, they would often underestimate its size. Rarely would anyone be sent in to search the tunnels, as it was so hazardous. The tunnels were often rigged with explosive booby traps  or  punji stake  pits. The two main responses in dealing with a tunnel opening were to flush the entrance with gas or water to force the guerrillas into the open, or to toss a few grenades down the hole and “crimp” off the opening. The clever design of the tunnels along with the strategic use of trap doors and air filtration systems rendered American technology ineffective.
However, an Australian specialist engineering troop, 3 Field Troop, under the command of Captain Sandy MacGregor did venture into the tunnels which they searched exhaustively for four days, finding ammunition, radio equipment, medical supplies and food as well as signs of considerable Viet Cong presence. One of their number, Corporal Bob Bowtell died when he became trapped in a tunnel that turned out to be a dead end. However the Australians pressed on and revealed, for the first time, the immense military significance of the tunnels. At an International Press Conference in Saigon shortly after Operation Crimp, MacGregor referred to his men as Tunnel Ferrets. An American journalist, having never heard of ferrets, used the term Tunnel Rats and it stuck. Following his troop’s discoveries in Cu Chi, Sandy MacGregor was awarded a Military Cross.
From its mistakes, and the Australians’ discoveries, U.S. command realized that they needed a new way to approach the dilemma of the tunnels. A general order was issued by General Williamson, the Allied Forces Commander in South Vietnam, to all Allied forces that tunnels had to be properly searched whenever they were discovered. They began training an elite group of volunteers in the art of tunnel warfare, armed only with a gun, a knife, a flashlight and a piece of string. These specialists, commonly known as “ tunnel rats ”, would enter a tunnel by themselves and travel inch-by-inch cautiously looking ahead for booby traps or cornered PLAF. There was no real doctrine for this approach and despite some very hard work in some sectors of the Army and MACV ( Military Assistance Command, Vietnam ) to provide some sort of training and resources, this was primarily a new approach that the units trained, equipped and planned for themselves.
Despite this revamped effort at fighting the enemy on its own terms, U.S. operations remained largely unsuccessful at eliminating the tunnels. In 1967, General  William Westmoreland  tried launching a larger assault on Củ Chi and the  Iron Triangle . Called Operation Cedar Falls, it was, in principle, exactly the same as Operation Crimp, but with 30,000 troops instead of the 8,000.
On January 18, tunnel rats from the 1st and 5th Infantry uncovered the Viet Cong district headquarters of Củ Chi containing half a million documents concerning all types of military strategy. Among the documents were maps of U.S. bases, detailed accounts of PLAF movement from  Cambodia  into Vietnam, lists of political sympathizers, and even plans for a failed assassination attempt on  Robert McNamara . With this one exception, Operation Cedar Falls failed to achieve its objective of destroying the communist stronghold in the region.
A  booby trap  with bamboo spikes.
By 1969, B-52s were freed from bombing North Vietnam and started “ carpet bombing ” Củ Chi and the rest of the Iron Triangle. Ultimately it proved successful but futile. Towards the end of the war, the tunnels were so heavily bombed that some portions actually caved in and other sections were exposed. But by that time, they had succeeded in protecting the local guerrilla units in “surviving to fight another day”.
Throughout the course of the war, the tunnels in and around Củ Chi proved to be a source of frustration for the U.S. military in Saigon. The Viet Cong had been so well entrenched in the area by 1965 that they were in the unique position of locally being able to control where and when battles would take place. By helping to covertly move supplies and house troops, the tunnels of Củ Chi allowed guerrilla fighters in their area of South Vietnam to survive, help prolong the war and increase American costs and casualties until their eventual withdrawal in 1972, and the final defeat of the Republic of Vietnam  in 1975.
Tourist Destination
The 75-mile (121 km)-long complex of tunnels at Củ Chi has been preserved by the government of Vietnam, and turned into a war memorial park. The tunnels are a popular  tourist  attraction, and visitors are invited to crawl around in the safer parts of the tunnel system. Some tunnels have been made larger to accommodate the larger size of Western tourists, while low-power lights have been installed in several of them to make traveling through them easier and booby traps have been clearly marked. Underground conference rooms where campaigns such as the  Tết Offensive  were planned in  1968  have been restored, and visitors may enjoy a simple meal of food that  Viet Cong  fighters would have eaten.
Above-ground attractions include caged monkeys,  vendors  selling  souvenirs , and a  shooting range  where visitors can fire a number of  assault rifles , such as the  M16 rifle  or  AK-47 , as well as a light machine gun like the  M60 .
A command center in the tunnels. Today, visitors to the complex can eat meals underground, sampling foods that the underground Viet Cong fighters had eaten, such as rice.
Tour guide showing how the tunnel works.
Tourists can fire a variety of Vietnam War era weapons at the shooting range.
Visitors entering tunnel system.
Vinh Moc tunnels
The Structureplan of Vinh Moc Tunnels.
Vinh Moc  (Vịnh Mốc) is a tunnel complex in  Quang Tri ,  Vietnam . During the  Vietnam War  it was strategically located on the border of  North Vietnam  and  South Vietnam . The tunnels were built to shelter people from the intense bombing of Son Trung and Son Ha communes in Vinh Linh county of  Quang Tri Province  in the  Vietnamese Demilitarized Zone . The American forces believed the villagers of Vinh Moc were supplying food and armaments to the North Vietnemese garrison on the island of Con Co which was in turn hindering the American bombers on their way to bomb Hanoi. The idea was to force the villagers of Vinh Moc to leave the area but as is typical in Vietnam there was nowhere else to go. The villagers initially dug the tunnels to move their village 10 metres underground but the American forces designed bombs that burrowed down 10 metres. Eventually against these odds, the villagers moved the village to a depth of 30 metres. It was constructed in several stages beginning in 1966 and used until early 1972. The complex grew to include wells, kitchens, rooms for each family and spaces for healthcare. Around 60 families lived in the tunnels; as many as 17 children were born inside the tunnels.
The tunnels were a success and no villagers lost their lives. The only direct hit was from a bomb that failed to explode; the resulting hole was utilized as a ventilation shaft.
Three levels of tunnels were eventually built.
Geography
The tunnels lie north of the  Ben Hai River .
Much of the sub-strata of Vietnam is limestone which is soft to dig through yet structurally sound. The Limestone allows easy hand digging of the tunnels and no structural supports are necessary.
History
When the  War  took place in Vinh Moc from 1966 to 1972, the  United States Army  released over 9,000 tons of bombs in the area, with a ratio of 7 tons of bombs on average per person. But the local people didn’t want to leave or lose their motherland. So, they began to dig tunnels in 1965  and finished in  1967  with simple tools in 18,000 labor days. The total length of the tunnels is nearly 2,000 m long with 6 entrances to the tops of hills and 7 entrances to the  South China sea .
Tourism
Today, the tunnels are a tourist attraction and can be visited on organised tours. Beside individual tours to the tunnels, they are regularly part of full-day trips, starting from  Hué  to explore the  Demilitarized Zone . In comparision to the  Cu Chi tunnels , walking through the Vinh-Moc-tunnels is a lot more comfortable, because they are situated in a less humid climate zone and the height of the tunnels allows even western tourists to stand upright.
Water well in Vinh Moc tunnel
Bomb Crater in Vinh Moc Tunnel Village
TO BE OR NOT TO BE
Entrance to Vinh Moc Tunnels
Using bomb fragment as a smart to alert everybody when necessary.
Going down to the next level.
:  Maternity Room in Vinh Moc tunnel (where 17 babies were born)
Family Room in Vinh Moc tunnels.
Tunnel rat
The  tunnel rats  were  American ,  Australian  and  New Zealand  soldiers who performed underground search and destroy  missions during the  Vietnam War . Later, similar teams were used by the  Red Army  during the  Soviet war in Afghanistan .
An infantryman is lowered into a tunnel during “Operation Oregon”, 1967
In the course of the war, the  Viet Cong  created extensive underground complexes. Whenever troops would uncover a tunnel, tunnel rats were sent in to kill any hiding enemy soldiers and to plant  explosives  to destroy the tunnels. A tunnel rat was equipped with only a standard issue  .45 caliber pistol , a bayonet and a flashlight, although most tunnel rats were allowed to choose another pistol with which to arm themselves. The tunnels were very dangerous, with numerous  booby traps  and enemies lying in wait. Often there were flooded U-bends in the tunnels to trap gas. Guards manned holes on the sides of tunnels through which spears could be thrust, impaling a crawling intruder. Not only were there human enemies, but also dangerous creatures, such as  snakes  (including venomous ones),  rats ,  spiders ,  scorpions , and  ants .  Black-Bearded Tomb Bats  ( Taphozous melanopogon ) and  Lesser Dawn Bats  ( Eonycteris spelaea ) roosted in the tunnels and were a harmless nuisance if awoken.
Part of the tunnel complex at  Củ Chi .
Due to the confined space, the tunnel rats disliked the intense  muzzle blast  of the comparatively large .45 caliber round , which would often leave them temporarily deaf, and it was not uncommon for them to use whatever handgun they might find. The  Soviet -made pistols the enemy carried were particular favourites, but they were rare, and the soldiers would often have someone at home send them a civilian pistol or  revolver . Among the favorites were the smaller German  Luger  or less-common double action  Walther  pistols, both chambered in  9 mm . Many of these were brought home by American troops returning from  World War II . Others would trade their pistols for revolvers used by other personnel. Many used improvised  suppressors  on their pistols to further reduce the noise.A particularly favored weapon was a specially modified  Smith & Wesson Model 29  known as the “quiet special purpose revolver”. Unlike the standard Model 29, which fires a  .44 Magnum  cartridge, the quiet special purpose revolver instead shot a  .410 shotgun shell . This cartridge was far less loud than the .45 caliber. In addition, the revolver lacked as much recoil as the M1911, was lighter, more useful in a tight, claustrophobic space such as a tunnel, and very compact as well.
Tunnel rats were generally, but not exclusively, men of smaller stature in order to fit in the narrow tunnels. It has been claimed by Mangold and Penycate that the tunnel rats were almost exclusively White or Hispanic soldiers, and the majority of  American Latinos  were  Puerto Rican  or  Mexican American . Such tactics came to prominence following their successful application in January 1966 during a combined US-Australian action against the  Củ Chi tunnels  in  Binh Duong Province , known as  Operation Crimp .
Afghanistan
Afghanistan  has an extensive series of historic tunnels used for transporting water, the  kariz , and during the 1979–1989  Soviet   war in Afghanistan , such tunnels were used by  Mujahideen  fighters. The Soviet  40th Army  had their own tunnel rats, who were tasked with flushing people out of the tunnels, then going through the tunnels to disarm booby traps and kill those who remained. Meanwhile, the  United States Marine Corps  and the  Royal Marines  are involved in similar work during the current ongoing  war in Afghanistan .
Tunnel rats preparing to place charges and make connections for detonation
Posted in
The World's History .
Minoan civilization
November 2, 2011
by
mannaismayaadventure
0
Minoan civilization
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia and others.
The  Minoan civilization  was a  Bronze Age  civilization that arose on the island of  Crete  and flourished from approximately the 27th century BC to the 15th century BC. It was rediscovered at the beginning of the 20th century through the work of the British archaeologist  Arthur Evans .  Will Durant referred to it as “the first link in the European chain.The early inhabitants of Crete settled as early as 128,000 BC, during the  Middle Paleolithic age. However, it was not until 5000 BC that the first signs of advanced agriculture appeared.
Map of Minoan Crete
Overview
What the Minoans called themselves is unknown. The term “Minoan” was coined by  Arthur Evans  after the mythic  “king” Minos .Minos was associated in  Greek myth  with the  labyrinth , which Evans identified with the site at  Knossos . It has sometimes been argued that the  Egyptian  place name “Keftiu” (*Káftiu  kftiw ) and the  Semitic  “Kaftor” or “ Caphtor ” and “Kaptara” in the  Mari  archives refer to the island of Crete; “On the other hand some acknowledged facts about Caphtor/Keftiu can only with difficulty be reconciled with Crete,” observes John Strange. In the  Odyssey , composed centuries after the destruction of the Minoan civilization,  Homer  calls the natives of Crete  Eteocretans  (“true Cretans”); these may have been descendants of the Minoans.
Minoan  palaces  (anaktora) are the best known building types to have been excavated on the island. They are monumental buildings serving  administrative  purposes as evidenced by the large  archives unearthed by  archaeologists . Each of the palaces excavated to date has its own unique features, but they also share features which set them apart from other structures. The palaces were often multi-storied, with interior and exterior  staircases , light wells, massive  columns , storage magazines and courtyards.
blue monkey fresco from the House of the Frescoes, northwest of the palace of Knossos. http://www.historywiz.com/galleries/bluemonkeys.html
It seems that the Minoan people were not  Indo-European , and that they were even related to the pre-Greek dwellers of the Greek mainland and Western  Anatolia , the so-called  Pelasgians . However the Minoan civilization was much more advanced and sophisticated than the contemporary  Helladic civilization during the bronze-age. The Minoan script ( Linear A ) has not yet been deciphered, but it seems that it represented an  Aegean  language, unrelated to any Indo-European language. From the neolithic ages  Crete  stood in the middle of two cultural-streams leading to the west: The forward-Asiatic and the north-African cultural streams. It seems that for many centuries Minoan Crete remained free from any invaders and managed to develop a distinct self-based civilization which was probably the most advanced in the  Mediterannean  area during the bronze-age.
These blue monkeys appear on a wall in Akrotiri, a Minoan city on the island of Santorini. The monkey was indigienous to Egypt and may have been brought to the island as gifts and pets. The artist creates a highly naturalistic portrait of the animal – blue with a white belly and groin – very different from the highly stylized Egyptian art of the period.
http://www.historywiz.com/galleries/bluemonkeys.html
Chronology and history
Further information:  Minoan chronology  and  Minoan pottery
Rather than associate absolute calendar dates for the Minoan period, archaeologists use two systems of relative chronology . The first, created by Evans and modified by later archaeologists, is based on  pottery styles. It divides the Minoan period into three main eras—Early Minoan (EM), Middle Minoan (MM), and Late Minoan (LM). These eras are further subdivided, e.g. Early Minoan I, II, III (EMI, EMII, EMIII). Another dating system, proposed by the Greek archaeologist  Nicolas Platon , is based on the development of the architectural complexes known as “palaces” at  Knossos ,  Phaistos ,  Malia , and  Kato Zakros , and divides the Minoan period into Prepalatial, Protopalatial, Neopalatial, and Post-palatial periods. The relationship among these systems is given in the accompanying table, with approximate calendar dates drawn from Warren and Hankey (1989).
The saffron gatherers, detail
In this wall fresco from Akrotiri on Santorini, two women are shown in a field of crocuses. The older woman is gathering the stamens of flowers and placing them in a basket. The younger woman has a partially shaven head, and is gathering stamens with both hands. Saffron is derived from the stamens and has been used as a dye since antiquity. Saffron was used to dye robes and saffron robes appear frequently in the wall frescoes. In classical Greece, saffron was a symbol of wealth and power.
http://www.historywiz.com/galleries/saffrongatherers.html
The  Thera eruption  occurred during a mature phase of the LM IA period. The calendar date of the volcanic eruption is extremely controversial.  Radiocarbon dating  has indicated a date in the late 17th century BC;those radiocarbon dates, however, conflict with the estimates of archaeologists who synchronize the eruption with the  Conventional Egyptian chronology  and obtain a date of around 1525-1500 BC. See the article on  dating the Thera eruption  for more discussion. The eruption is often identified as a natural, catastrophic event that lead to its rapid collapse.
the saffron gatherers
History
Minoan chronology
3650-3000 BC
EMI
Prepalatial
2900-2300 BC
EMII
2300-2160 BC
EMIII
2160-1900 BC
MMIA
1900-1800 BC
MMIB
Protopalatial
(Old Palace Period)
1800-1700 BC
MMII
1700-1640 BC
MMIIIA
Neopalatial
(New Palace Period)
1640-1600 BC
MMIIIB
1600-1480 BC
LMIA
1480-1425 BC
LMIB
1425-1390 BC
LMII
Postpalatial
(At Knossos, Final Palace Period)
1390-1370 BC
LMIIIA1
1370-1340 BC
LMIIIA2
1340-1190 BC
LMIIIB
1190-1170 BC
LMIIIC
1100 BC
Subminoan
The oldest evidence of inhabitants on Crete are preceramic  Neolithic  farming community remains that date to approximately 7000 BC.A comparative study of DNA haplogroups of modern Cretan men showed that a male founder group from  Anatolia  or the Levant , is shared with the Greeks.The neolithic population dwelt in open villages. On the shores, there were fishermen’s huts, while the fertile  Mesara Plain  was used for agriculture.
The  Bronze Age  began in  Crete  around 2700 BC. In the late 3rd Millenium BC, several localities on the island developed into centers of commerce and handwork. This enabled the upper classes to continuously practice leadership activities and to expand their influence. It is likely that the original hierarchies of the local elites were replaced by monarchist power structures – a precondition for the creation of the great palaces. From the Early Bronze Age (3500 BC to 2600 BC), the Minoan civilization on Crete showed a promise of greatness.
males shown in procession in a wall fresco at Knossos
The Cup-Bearer fresco from the South Propylaea at Knossos. The males shown wear brightly embroidered loin-cloths with gold and silver belts, silver anklets and bracelets
At the end of the MMII period (1700 BC) there was a large disturbance in Crete, probably an earthquake, or possibly an invasion from Anatolia .   The palaces at Knossos, Phaistos, Malia, and Kato Zakros were destroyed. But with the start of the Neopalatial period, population increased again, the palaces were rebuilt on a larger scale and new settlements were built all over the island. This period (the 17th and 16th centuries BC, MM III / Neopalatial) represents the apex of the Minoan civilization. There was another natural catastrophe around 1600 BC, possibly an eruption of the  Thera volcano . Even this disaster didn’t discourage the Minoans: the palaces were again rebuilt and were made even greater than before.
The influence of the Minoan civilization outside Crete manifests itself in the presence of valuable Minoan handicraft items on the  Greek mainland . It is likely that the ruling house of  Mycenae  was connected to the Minoan trade network. After around 1700 BC, the material culture on the Greek mainland achieved a new level due to Minoan influence. Connections between  Egypt  and Crete are prominent. Minoan ceramics are found in Egyptian cities and the Minoans imported several items from Egypt, especially  papyrus , as well as architectural and artistic ideas. The Egyptian  hieroglyphs  served as a model for the  Minoan pictographic writing , from which the famous  Linear A  and  Linear B writing systems later developed.
This beautiful fresco was found in a small house northwest of the palace with richly decorated walls. It is called the House of the Frescoes
Around 1450 BC, Minoan culture experienced a turning point due to a natural catastrophe, possibly an earthquake. Another eruption of the Thera  volcano has been linked to this downfall, but its dating and implications remain controversial. Several important palaces in locations such as Mallia, Tylissos, Phaistos, Hagia Triade as well as the living quarters of Knossos were destroyed. The palace in Knossos seems to have remained largely intact. This resulted in the Dynasty in Knossos being able to spread its influence over large parts of Crete, until it was overrun by  Mycenaean Greeks .
The Minoan palace sites were occupied by the Myceneans around 1420 BC (1375 BC according to other sources),who adapted the Linear A  Minoan script to the needs of their own  Mycenaean language , a form of  Greek , which was written in  Linear B . The first such archive anywhere is in the LMII-era “Room of the Chariot Tablets”. The Myceneans generally tended to adapt, rather than destroy, Minoan culture, religion and art, and they continued to operate the economic system and bureaucracy of the Minoans.
The beautiful fresco is in the Caravanserai, a probable reception hall at the south of the palace. Some of the rooms have baths and the walls are decorated with wall paintings .
http://www.historywiz.com/galleries/minoangarden.htm
During LMIIIA:1,  Amenhotep III  at Kom el-Hatan took note of  k-f-t-w  (Kaftor) as one of the “Secret Lands of the North of  Asia “. Also mentioned are Cretan cities such as  Ἀμνισός  (Amnisos),  Φαιστός  (Phaistos),  Κυδωνία  (Kydonia) and  Kνωσσός  (Knossos) and some  toponyms reconstructed as belonging to the Cyclades or the Greek mainland. If the values of these Egyptian names are accurate, then this  Pharaoh  did not privilege LMIII Knossos above the other states in the region.
After about a century of partial recovery, most Cretan cities and palaces went into decline in the 13th century BC (LHIIIB/LMIIIB). The last Linear A  archives date to LMIIIA (contemporary with LHIIIA).
Knossos remained an administrative center until 1200 BC; the last of the Minoan sites was the defensive mountain site of  Karfi , a refuge site which displays vestiges of Minoan civilization almost into the  Iron Age .
Geography
Crete is a mountainous island with natural  harbours . There are signs of earthquake damage at many Minoan sites and clear signs of both uplifting of land and submersion of coastal sites due to  tectonic  processes all along the coasts.
Homer  recorded a tradition that Crete had 90 cities.   To judge from the palace sites the island was probably divided into at least eight political units during the height of the Minoan period. The north is thought to have been governed from Knossos, the south from  Phaistos , the central eastern part from  Malia , and the eastern tip from  Kato Zakros  and the west from  Chania . Smaller palaces have been found in other places.
Some of the major Minoan archaeological sites are:
Palaces
Knossos  – the largest Bronze Age archaeological site on Crete; was purchased for excavations by Evans on March 16, 1900.
Phaistos  – the second largest   palatial building on the island, excavated by the Italian school shortly after Knossos
Malia  – the subject of French excavations, a palatial centre which affords a look into the development of the palaces in the protopalatial period
Kato Zakros  – a palatial site excavated by Greek archaeologists in the far east of the island. This is also referred to as “Zakro” in archaeological literature.
Galatas  – the most recently   confirmed palatial site
Agia Triada  – an administrative centre close to Phaistos
Gournia  – a town site excavated in the first quarter of the 20th century by the American School
Pyrgos  – an early Minoan site on the south of the island
Vasiliki  – an early Minoan site towards the east of the island which gives its name to a distinctive ceramic ware
Fournu Korfi  – a site on the south of the island
Pseira  – island town with ritual sites
Mount Juktas  – the greatest [ citation needed ]  of the Minoan peak sanctuaries because of its association with the palace of Knossos
Arkalochori  – the find site of the famous  Arkalochori Axe
Karfi  – a refuge site from the late Minoan period, one of the last of the Minoan sites
Akrotiri  – settlement on the island of  Santorini  (Thera), near the site of the  Thera Eruption
Zominthos  – a mountainous city in the northern foothills of  Mount Ida
Minoans beyond Crete
Minoan  copper  ingot.
Minoans were traders, and their cultural contacts reached far beyond the island of Crete — to  Egypt’s   Old Kingdom , to copper-bearing  Cyprus ,  Canaan , and the Levantine  coasts beyond, and to  Anatolia . In late 2009, Minoan-style frescoes and other Minoan-style artifacts were discovered during excavations of the  Canaanite palace at  Tel Kabri ,  Israel , leading archaeologists to conclude that the Minoan influence was the strongest foreign influence on that  Caananite  city state. These are the only Minoan remains ever found in  Israel .
Minoan techniques and styles in ceramics also provided models, of fluctuating influence, for  Helladic Greece . Along with the familiar example of  Thera , Minoan “colonies” can be found first at  Kastri  on  Cythera , an island close to the Greek mainland that came under Minoan influence in the mid-third millennium (EMII) and remained Minoan in culture for a thousand years, until Mycenaean occupation in the 13th century. The use of the term “colony”, however, like “thalassocracy”, has been criticized in recent years.The Minoan strata there replace a mainland-derived culture in the Early Bronze Age, the earliest Minoan settlement outside Crete. The  Cyclades  were in the Minoan cultural orbit, and, closer to Crete, the islands of  Karpathos ,  Saros  and Kasos , also contained Minoan colonies, or settlements of Minoan traders, from the Middle Bronze Age (MMI-II); most of them were abandoned in LMI, but Minoan Karpathos recovered and continued with a Minoan culture until the end of the Bronze Age.   Other supposed Minoan colonies, such as that hypothesised by  Adolf Furtwängler  for  Aegina , were later dismissed.There was a Minoan colony at  Ialysos on  Rhodes .
Minoan cultural influence indicates an orbit that extended not only throughout the  Cyclades  (so-called  Minoanisation ), but in locations such as Egypt and Cyprus. Paintings from the 15th century BC, in  Thebes, Egypt  depict a number of individuals that are Minoan in appearance bearing gifts. Inscriptions record these people as coming from  Keftiu , or the “islands in the midst of the sea”, and may refer to gift-bringing merchants or officials from Crete.
Certain locations within Crete emphasize it as an “outward looking  society. The Neopalatial site of  Kato Zakros , for instance, is located within 100 metres of the modern shore-line, situated within a bay. Its large number of workshops and the richness of its site materials indicate a potential ‘entrepôt’ for import and export. Such activities are elaborated in artistic representations of the sea, including the ‘Flotilla’ fresco from room 5, in the west house at Akrotiri.
Society and culture
Fresco showing three women who were possibly Queens .
The Minoans were primarily a  mercantile  people engaged in overseas trade. Their culture, from 1700 BC onward, shows a high degree of organization.
Many historians and archaeologists believe that the Minoans were involved in the Bronze Age’s important  tin  trade: tin, alloyed with  copper  apparently from Cyprus , was used to make  bronze . The decline of Minoan civilization and the decline in use of bronze tools in favor of iron ones seem to be correlated.
The Minoan trade in  saffron , the stigma of a mutated  crocus  which originated in the Aegean basin as a natural chromosome mutation, has left fewer material remains: a fresco of saffron-gatherers at  Santorini  is well-known. This inherited trade pre-dated Minoan civilization: a sense of its rewards may be gained by comparing its value to frankincense , or later, to  pepper . Archaeologists tend to emphasize the more durable items of trade: ceramics, copper, and tin, and dramatic luxury finds of  gold and  silver .
Objects of Minoan manufacture suggest there was a network of trade with mainland Greece  (notably  Mycenae ),  Cyprus ,  Syria ,  Anatolia ,  Egypt ,  Mesopotamia , and westward as far as the coast of  Spain .
Minoan men wore  loincloths  and  kilts . Women wore  robes  that had short sleeves and layered flounced skirts. These were open to the navel allowing their breasts to be left exposed, perhaps during ceremonial occasions. Women also had the option of wearing a strapless fitted  bodice . The patterns on emphasized  symmetrical  geometric designs. It must be remembered that other forms of dress may have been worn of which we have no record.
The  Minoan religion  focused on female deities, with females officiating. The statues of  priestesses  in Minoan culture and frescoes showing men and women participating in the same sports such as  bull-leaping , lead some archaeologists to believe that men and women held equal social status. Inheritance is thought to have been matrilineal. The frescos include many depictions of people, with the genders distinguished by colour: the men’s skin is reddish-brown, the women’s white.
Concentration of wealth played a large role in the structure of society. Multiroom constructions were discovered in even the ‘poor’ areas of town, revealing a social equality and even distribution of wealth.
Language and writing
Unknown signs on the  Phaistos Disc .
Knowledge of the spoken and written language of the Minoans is scant, due to the small number of records found. Around 3000   clay tablets have been found with the various Cretan scripts. Clay tablets seem to have been used from around 3000 BC or earlier. Two clay cups from Knossos have been found with remnants of ink; and inkwells, similar to the animal-shaped inkstands from Mesopotamia, have also been found.
Sometimes, the Minoan language is referred to as  Eteocretan , but this presents confusion between the language written in  Linear A scripts  and the language written in a  Euboean -derived alphabet after the  Greek Dark Ages . While the Eteocretan language is believed to be a descendant of Minoan, there is not enough source material in either language to allow conclusions.
The earliest writing found on Crete is  Cretan hieroglyphic  system. It is not known whether this language is Minoan, and scholars often debate its origin. These hieroglyphs are often associated with the Egyptians but also appear related to several other writings from the Mesopotamian region. The hieroglyphs came into use from MMI and were in parallel use with the emerging Linear A from the 18th century BC (MM II) and disappeared during the 17th century BCE (MM III).
In the  Mycenean period , Linear A was replaced by Linear B, recording a very archaic version of the  Greek language . Linear B was successfully deciphered by  Michael Ventris  in 1952, but the earlier scripts remain a mystery. The overwhelming majority of tablets are written in the  Linear B  script, apparently being inventories of goods or resources. Others are inscriptions on religious objects associated with cult . Because most of these inscriptions are concise economic records rather than dedicatory inscriptions, the translation of Minoan remains a challenge.
Unless  Eteocretan  truly is its descendant, it is perhaps during the  Greek Dark Ages , a time of economic and socio-political collapse, that the Minoan language became extinct.
Art
A  fresco  found at the Minoan site of Knossos, indicating a sport or ritual of “bull leaping”, the red skinned figure is a man and the two light skinned figures are women.
The collection of Minoan art is in the museum at  Heraklion , near Knossos on the north shore of Crete. Minoan art, with other remains of  material culture , especially the sequence of ceramic styles, has allowed archaeologists to define the three phases of Minoan culture (EM, MM, LM) discussed above.
Since wood and textiles have vanished through decomposition, the best preserved, and so most easily learned from, surviving examples of Minoan art are  Minoan pottery , the palace architecture with its  frescos  that include landscapes,  stone carvings , and intricately carved  seal stones .
Pottery
Main article:  Minoan pottery
In the Early Minoan period ceramics were characterized by linear patterns of  spirals , triangles , curved lines,  crosses ,  fishbone  motifs, and like. In the Middle Minoan period naturalistic designs such as  fish ,  squid ,  birds , and  lilies  were common. In the Late Minoan period, flowers and animals were still the most characteristic, but the variability had increased. The ‘palace style’ of the region around Knossos is characterised by a strong  geometric simplification of  naturalistic  shapes and  monochromatic  paintings. Very noteworthy are the similarities between Late Minoan and  Mycenaean art. Frescoes were the main form of art during these time of the Minoan culture.
Spouted vessel, 2100-1700 BC.
Vase with typical octopus motif, 1500 BC. (Old Palace Period)
Vase, Marine Style, 1500 BC. (New Palace Period)
Cans, 1390-1070 BC. (Final Palace Period)
(Left) Kamares style from Phaistos. 1800-1700 BC. Herakleion Museum;(right)  Early Minoan clay pitcher 2500 BC  http://www.historywiz.com/minoanpottery.htm
(left)Minoan Amphora , marine style, 1500-1400 BC, (right) Minoan Ewer, palace style, 1500-1400 BC   http://www.historywiz.com/minoanpottery.htm
the Harvester Vase – a stone vessel showing the harvest – from Hagia Triada. Crete.c.1550-1500 BC. Steatite  http://www.historywiz.com/minoanpottery.htm
Marine Style Late Minoan     Marine Style Late Minoan 1400 BC – papyrus in relief
http://www.historywiz.com/minoanpottery.htm
Religion
Main article:  Minoan religion
“ Snake Goddess ” or a priestess performing a ritual.
The Minoans seem to have worshipped primarily goddesses, which has sometimes been described as a “ matriarchal religion .  Although there is some evidence of male gods, depictions of Minoan goddesses vastly outnumber depictions of anything that could be considered a Minoan god. While some of these depictions of women are speculated to be images of worshippers and priestesses officiating at religious ceremonies, as opposed to the deity herself, there still seem to be several goddesses including a  Mother Goddess  of  fertility , a  Mistress of the Animals , a protectress of  cities , the  household , the  harvest , and the  underworld , and more. Some have argued that these are all aspects of a single  Great Goddess . They are often represented by serpents , birds, poppies, and a somewhat vague shape of an animal upon the head.
A major festive celebration was exemplified in the famous athletic  Minoan bull dance , represented at large in the frescoes of Knossos   and inscribed in miniature seals.
The Minoan horn-topped altars, since  Evans ‘ time conventionally called “ Horns of Consecration ” are represented in seal impressions, and survive in examples as far afield as Cyprus.
Minoan sacred symbols include the  bull  and its horns of consecration, the  labrys  (double-headed axe), the  pillar , the serpent, the sun-disk, and the  tree . However, recently a completely different interpretation of these symbols, focusing on  apiculture  instead of religious significance, has been suggested.
The bull leaper from Knossos ( Heraklion Archaeological Museum )
Evidence that suggests the Minoans may have performed human sacrifice has been found at three sites: (1)  Anemospilia , in a MMII building near Mt. Juktas, interpreted as a temple, (2) an EMII sanctuary complex at  Fournou Korifi  in south central Crete, and (3)  Knossos , in an LMIB building known as the “North House. ( explanation of abbreviations )
Like much of the archaeology of the Bronze Age, burial remains constitute much of the material and archaeological evidence for the period. By the end of the Second Palace Period Minoan burial practice is dominated by two broad forms: ‘Circular Tombs’, or  Tholoi , (located in South Crete) and ‘House Tombs’, (located in the north and the east). Of course, there are many trends and patterns within Minoan mortuary practice that do not conform to this simple breakdown. Over all, inhumation was the most popular form of burial, cremation does not seem to have been a popular means of burial in Bronze Age Crete.Throughout this period there is a trend towards individual burials, with some distinguished exceptions. These include the much-debated Chrysolakkos complex, Mallia, consisting of a number of buildings forming a complex. This is located in the centre of Mallia’s burial area and may have been the focus for burial rituals, or the ‘crypt’ for a notable family.
Warfare and “The Minoan Peace”
Children  boxing  in a fresco on the island of  Santorini .
Though the vision created by  Arthur Evans  of a  pax Minoica , a “Minoan peace”, has been criticised in recent years, it is generally assumed there was little internal armed conflict in Minoan Crete itself, until the following Mycenaean period. As with much of Minoan Crete, however, it is hard to draw any obvious conclusions from the evidence. However, new excavations keep sustaining interest and documenting the impact around the Aegean.
Despite having found ruined watchtowers and fortification walls, Evans argued that there was little evidence for ancient Minoan fortifications. But as S. Alexiou has pointed out (in  Kretologia  8), a number of sites, especially Early and Middle Minoan sites such as Aghia Photia, are built on hilltops or are otherwise fortified. As Lucia Nixon said, “…we may have been over-influenced by the lack of what we might think of as solid fortifications to assess the archaeological evidence properly. As in so many other instances, we may not have been looking for evidence in the right places, and therefore we may not end with a correct assessment of the Minoans and their ability to avoid war.
The Prince of Lilies is from one of the large frescoes at the palace of Knossos. The fresco demonstrates the fluidity of movement and naturalism of Minoan art between 1700 and 1400 BCE.
http://www.historywiz.com/galleries/minoanprince.htm
Chester Starr points out in “Minoan Flower Lovers” (Hagg-Marinatos eds. Minoan Thalassocracy) that  Shang China  and the  Maya  both had unfortified centers and yet still engaged in frontier struggles, so that itself cannot be enough to definitively show the Minoans were a peaceful civilization unparalleled in history.
In 1998, however, when Minoan archaeologists met in a conference in Belgium to discuss the possibility that the idea of Pax Minoica was outdated, the evidence for Minoan war proved to be scanty.
Archaeologist Jan Driessen, for example, said the Minoans frequently show ‘weapons’ in their art, but only in ritual contexts, and that “The construction of fortified sites is often assumed to reflect a threat of warfare, but such fortified centres were multifunctional; they were also often the embodiment or material expression of the central places of the territories at the same time as being monuments glorifying and merging leading power” (Driessen 1999, p. 16).
On the other hand, Stella Chryssoulaki’s work on the small outposts or ‘guard-houses’ in the east of the island represent possible elements of a defensive system. Claims that they produced no weapons are erroneous; type A Minoan swords (as found in palaces of Mallia and Zarkos) were the finest in all of the Aegean (See Sanders, AJA 65, 67, Hoeckmann, JRGZM 27, or Rehak and Younger, AJA 102).
Keith Branigan claimed that 95% of so-called Minoan weapons possessed hafting (hilts, handles) that would have prevented their use as weapons (Branigan, 1999); more recent experimental testing of accurate replicas has shown this to be incorrect as these weapons were capable of cutting flesh down to the bone (and scoring the bone’s surface) without any damage to the weapons themselves. Archaeologist Paul Rehak maintains that Minoan figure-eight shields could not have been used for fighting or even hunting, since they were too cumbersome (Rehak, 1999). And archaeologist Jan Driessen says the Minoans frequently show ‘weapons’ in their art, but only in ritual contexts (Driessen 1999). Finally, archaeologist Cheryl Floyd concludes that Minoan “weapons” were merely tools used for mundane tasks such as meat-processing (Floyd, 1999). However, this theory is thrown into question by evidence of “rapiers nearly three feet in length dated to the Middle Minoan period.
About Minoan warfare, Branigan concludes that “The quantity of weaponry, the impressive fortifications, and the aggressive looking long-boats all suggested an era of intensified hostilities. But on closer inspection there are grounds for thinking that all three key elements are bound up as much with status statements, display, and fashion as with aggression…. Warfare such as there was in the southern Aegean EBA  early Bronze Age  was either personalized and perhaps ritualized (in Crete) or small-scale, intermittent and essentially an economic activity (in the Cyclades and the Argolid/Attica) ” (1999, p. 92). Archaeologist Krzyszkowska concurs: “The stark fact is that for the prehistoric Aegean we have no direct evidence for war and warfare per se” (Krzyszkowska, 1999).
Furthermore, no evidence exists for a Minoan army, or for Minoan domination of peoples outside Crete. Few signs of warfare appear in Minoan art. “Although a few archaeologists see war scenes in a few pieces of Minoan art, others interpret even these scenes as festivals, sacred dance, or sports events” (Studebaker, 2004, p. 27). Although armed warriors are depicted being stabbed in the throat with swords, violence may occur in the context of ritual or blood sport.
Although on the Mainland of Greece at the time of the Shaft Graves at Mycenae, there is little evidence for major fortifications among the Mycenaeans there (the famous citadels post-date the destruction of almost all Neopalatial Cretan sites), the constant warmongering of other contemporaries of the ancient Minoans – the Egyptians and Hittites, for example – is well documented.
Architecture
The Minoan cities were connected with stone-paved  roads , formed from blocks cut with bronze  saws . Streets were drained and water and sewer  facilities were available to the upper class, through  clay  pipes.
Minoan buildings often had flat tiled roofs;  plaster , wood, or  flagstone   floors , and stood two to three stories high. Typically the lower  walls were constructed of stone and  rubble , and the upper walls of  mudbrick . Ceiling timbers held up the roofs.
The materials used in constructing the villas and palaces varied, and could include sandstone, gypsum, or limestone. Equally, building techniques could also vary between different constructions; some palaces used ashlar masonry while others used roughly hewn megalithic blocks.
Palaces
Ruins of the palace at Knossos.
Fresco from the “Palace of Minos”,  Knossos , Crete.
Storage jars in Knossos.
The first palaces were constructed at the end of the Early Minoan period in the third millennium BC ( Malia ). While it was formerly believed that the foundation of the first palaces was synchronous and dated to the Middle Minoan at around 2000 BC (the date of the first palace at Knossos), scholars now think that palaces were built over a longer period in different locations, in response to local developments. The main older palaces are Knossos, Malia, and Phaistos. Some of the elements recorded in the Middle Minoan ‘palaces’ (Knossos, Phaistos and Mallia, for example) have precedents in earlier styles of construction in the Early Minoan period. These include the indented western court, and the special treatment given to the western façade. An example of this is seen at the “House on the Hill” at Vasiliki, dated to the Early Minoan II period.
The palaces fulfilled a plethora of functions: they served as centres of  government , administrative offices,  shrines , workshops, and storage spaces (e.g., for grain). These distinctions might have seemed artificial to Minoans.
The use of the term ‘palace’ for the older palaces, meaning a dynastic residence and seat of power, has recently come under criticism (see  Palace ), and the term ‘court building’ has been proposed instead. However, the original term is probably too well entrenched to be replaced. Architectural features such as  ashlar  masonry, orthostats , columns, open courts, staircases (implying upper stories), and the presence of diverse basins have been used to define palatial architecture.
Minoan Bees Jewel Herakleion Archaeological Museum  Gold Bee Pendant
Cast gold found at Chrysolakos at Malia. The two bees are taking a drop of honey to the hive. metalworking  1800-1700 BC  http://www.historywiz.com/galleries/bees.html
Often the conventions of better-known, younger palaces have been used to reconstruct older ones, but this practice may be obscuring fundamental functional differences. Most older palaces had only one story and no representative façades. They were U-shaped, with a big central court, and generally were smaller than later palaces. Late palaces are characterised by multi-storey buildings. The west façades had sandstone ashlar masonry. Knossos is the best-known example. See  Knossos . Further building conventions could include storage magazines, a north-south orientation, a pillar room, a Minoan Hall system, a western court, and pier-and-door entrance ways. Palatial architecture in the First Palace Period is identified by its ‘square within a square’ style, whilst later, Second Palace Period constructions incorporated more internal divisions and corridors.
This is a small Minoan lion jewel made of gold from the Herakleion Archeological Museum and a good example of small precious metal work.
http://www.historywiz.com/galleries/goldenlion.html
It’s a common architectural standard among the Middle Minoan ‘palaces’ that they are aligned with their surrounding topography. The MM palatial structure of Phaistos appears to align with Mount Ida, whilst Knossos is aligned with Juktas.These are oriented along a north-south axis. One suggested reason for this is the ritual significance of the mountain, where a number of Peak Sanctuaries (spaces for public ritual) have been excavated (i.e., Petsophas). The material record for these sites show clusters of clay figurines and evidence of animal sacrifice.
Columns
One of the most notable contributions of Minoans to architecture is their unique column, which was wider at the top than the bottom. It is called an ‘inverted’ column because most Greek columns are wider at the bottom, creating an illusion of greater height. The columns were also made of wood as opposed to stone, and were generally painted red. They were mounted on a simple stone base and were topped with a pillow-like, round piece as a capital.
Gold ring with a depiction of the goddess with a griffin from Phourni. Before 2000 BC.   The goddess in her supernatural arena is often depicted with griffins .
http://www.historywiz.com/galleries/griffinring.html
Villas
A number of compounds interpreted as ‘Villas’ have been excavated in Crete. These structures share many features with the central Palaces (i.e., a conspicuous western façade, storage facilities, and a ‘Minoan Hall’) of the Neopalatial era, and may indicate either that they performed a similar rôle, or that they were artistic imitations, suggesting that their occupants were familiar with palatial culture. These villas are often richly decorated (see the frescos of Haghia Triadha Villa A).
Agriculture and subsistence
The Minoans raised  cattle ,  sheep ,  pigs , and  goats , and grew  wheat ,  barley ,  vetch , and  chickpeas , they also cultivated  grapes ,  figs , and olives , and grew  poppies , for poppyseed and, perhaps, opium. The Minoans also domesticated  bees .
Crops including lettuce, celery, asparagus and carrots grow wild in Crete, while some produce was native, such as pears, quinces, and olive trees. They also imported date palm trees, and cats (used for hunting purposes) from Egypt  and adopted  pomegranates  and  quinces  from the Near East, although not  lemons  and  oranges  as is often imagined.
They developed Mediterranean polyculture, the practice of growing more than one crop at a time, and as a result of their more varied and healthy diet, the population increased. This method of farming would theoretically maintain the fertility of the soil, as well as offering protection against low yields in any single crop. Furthermore, Linear B tablets indicate the importance of orchard farming (i.e., figs, olives and grapes) in processing crops for “secondary products”. Olive oil in the Cretan diet (or more largely, the Mediterranean diet) is comparable to butter in the Northern diet.The process of fermenting wine from grapes is likely to have been a concern of the “Palace” economies, whereby such prestige goods would have been both important trade commodities as well as culturally meaningful items of consumption. Equally, it is likely that the consumption of exotic or expensive products would have played a role in the presentation and articulation of political and economic power.
The Fisherman
Farmers used wooden  plows , bound by leather to wooden handles, and pulled by pairs of  donkeys  or  oxen .
The importance of marine resources in the  Cretan diet  is equally important to consider: the prevalence of edible molluscs in site material,and the artistic representations of marine fish and animals, including the distinctive “Octopus” stirrup jar (LM IIIC), indicate an appreciation and occasional use of fish within the economy. However, doubt remains over the functional significance of these resources in the wider Cretan diet, especially in relation to grain, olives and animal produce. Indeed, the intensification of agricultural activity is indicated by the construction of terraces and dams at Pseira in the Late Minoan period.
The Cretan diet consisted of wild animals roaming the island. Cretans ate wild deer and boar along with the meats made available to them by their livestock. Wild game can no longer be found on Crete.
Not all plants and flora would have a purely functional or economic utility. Artistic depictions often show scenes of lily gathering and performances within ‘green’ spaces. The fresco known as the “Sacred Grove” at Knossos, for instance, depicts a number of female figures facing towards the left-hand-side of the scene, flanked by a copse of trees. Some scholars have suggested that these depictions represent the performance of ‘harvest festivals’ or ceremonies, as a means to honour the continued fertility of the soil. Further artistic depictions of farming scenes are observed on the Second Palace Period “Harvester Vase” (an egg-shaped  rhyton , or pouring vessel), where 27 male figures, led by another, each carry hoes. This suggests the importance of farming as an artistic motif.
Much debate has been animated by the discovery of storage magazines within the palace compounds. At the second ‘palace’ at Phaistos, for instance, a range of rooms in the western side of the structure have been identified as a magazine block. Within these storage areas have been recovered numerous jars, jugs and vessels, indicating the role of the complex as a potential re-distribution centre of agricultural produce. Several possibilities may be suggested, including a model where all economic and agricultural produce was controlled by the Palace and re-distributed by it. At sites such as Knossos, where the town had developed to a considerable size, there is evidence of craft specialisation, indicating workshops. The Palace of Kato Zakro, for instance, indicates workshops that were integrated into the structure of the palace. Such evidence contributes to the idea that the Minoan palatial system developed through economic intensification, where greater agricultural surplus could support a population of administrators, craftsmen and religious practitioners. The number of domestic, or sleeping, chambers at the Palaces indicate that they could have supported a large population of individuals who were removed from manual labour.
Evolution of agricultural tools in Minoan Crete
Originally the tools were made of wood or bone, and bound together to the handle with leather straps. During the  Bronze Age  the tools were upgraded to  bronze , with wooden handles. Due to its circular hole the tool would spin around on its handle, so the Minoans invented oval shaped holes in their tools with oval shapped handles, this stopped the tools from being able to spin.
Tools List:
Double  Adze
Double  Axe
Single-Bladed  Axe
Axe – Adze
Sickle
Chisel
Minoan demise theories
Main article:  Minoan eruption
The  Minoan eruption  on the island of  Thera  (present-day  Santorini  about 100 km distant from Crete) occurred during the LM IA period. This eruption was among the largest volcanic explosions in the history of civilization, ejecting approximately 60 km 3  of material and rating a 6 on the  Volcanic Explosivity Index . The eruption devastated the nearby Minoan settlement at  Akrotiri  on Santorini, which was entombed in a layer of  pumice .Also, it has been suggested that the eruption and its effect on the Minoan civilization was the origin of the  Atlantis myth, via Egyptian historical accounts.
It’s further believed that the eruption severely affected the Minoan culture on Crete, although the precise extent of the impact has been debated. Early theories proposed that ashfall from Thera on the eastern half of Crete choked off plant life, causing starvation of the local population. However, after more thorough field examinations, this theory has lost credibility, as it has been determined that no more than 5 millimetres (0.20 in) of ash fell anywhere on Crete. Recent studies indicate, based on archaeological evidence found on Crete, that a massive  tsunami , generated by the Theran eruption, devastated the coastal areas of Crete and destroyed many Minoan coastal settlements.The LM IIIA (Late Minoan) period is marked by its affluence (i.e., wealthy tombs, burials and art) and the ubiquity of Knossian ceramic styles.   However, by LM IIIB the importance of Knossos as a regional centre, and its material ‘wealth’, seem to have declined.
Significant Minoan remains have been found above the Late Minoan I era Thera ash layer, implying that the Thera eruption did not cause the immediate downfall of the Minoans. As the Minoans were a sea power and depended on their naval and merchant ships for their livelihood, the Thera eruption caused significant economic hardship to the Minoans. Whether these effects were enough to trigger the downfall of the Minoan civilization is under intense debate. The  Mycenaean  conquest of the Minoans occurred in Late Minoan II period. The Mycenaeans were a military civilization. Using their functional navy and a well equipped army they were capable of an invasion. There is evidence of Mycenaean weaponry being found in burials on Crete. This demonstrates Mycenaean military influence.Not many years after the eruption, and many archaeologists speculate that the eruption induced a crisis in Minoan civilization, which allowed the Mycenaeans to conquer them easily.
Sinclair Hood writes that the destruction of the Minoans was most likely due to an invading force. Although the demise of the flourishing civilization was aided by the erupting volcano on Thera, the ultimate end came from outside conquerors. Archaeological evidence leads to the fact the destruction of the island appears to be due to fire damage. Hood notes that the palace at Knossos appears to have experienced less damage than other sites along the island of Crete. Because natural disasters do not choose targets, it is most likely that the destruction was a product of invaders, for invaders would have seen the usefulness of a palace center like Knossos.
Several authors have noted evidence for exceedance of  carrying capacity  by the Minoan civilization. For example, archaeological recovery at Knossos  provides clear proof of  deforestation  of this part of Crete near late stages of Minoan development.
Posted in
The World's History .
Post navigation
Categories
Anthropology & Archaeology Corner
Antiques Corner
Batik of Indonesia
Business News
Culinary Tour
Cultures of Indonesia
Departures From Jakarta Km Distance To Other City , Tourist Map
Eagle's Nest Castles
EDUCATION, BOOK, MOVIE, MUSIC & SPORT CORNER
ENVIRONMENT
Eruption of Mount Merapi Central Java – Earth Quake & Tzunami at Mentawai Island
FOREIGN EMBASSY OFFICE AT JAKARTA & List of Attorneys, Consular District of Jakarta Indonesia
Genghis Khan
GEOLOGY
HANDYCRAFT OF INDONESIA
HEALTH
HISTORY OF INDONESIA
History of Yogyakarta Hadiningrat Kingdom
INDONESIA, My Beautiful Country
INDONESIAN TRIBES
List of Hotel
Mount Trekking
NEWS
News and Events
PHOTOS GALLERY : Tour D'Java
PILGRIMAGE TOURS of JERICHO & Others
PILGRIMAGE TOURS OF JORDAN
Prince William & Kate Middleton , The Royal Wedding of the year
Relaxing Corner
SCIENCE
SCIENCE, GEOLOGY, HEALTH, ENVIRONMENT,TECHNOLOGY, Anthropology & Archaeology Corner
TECHNOLOGY
The Art
The Beautiful Churches Around The World and in Indonesia
The Composers
The History of Italy
The History of Ottoman Empire , Saladin of Egypt., Istanbul, and the fall of Constantinople
The Most Beautiful Mosques Around The World & The Most Magnificent Mosques in Indonesia
The National Heroes Of Indonesia
THE UNIVERSE & SPACE SCIENCE
The World's History
The World's Magnificent Pagodas, Temples, Palaces etc
Tour Bali Island
Tour Central Java
Tour East Java
Tour Lombok, Sumbawa, Sumba, Flores Island
Tour The Exotic Raja Ampat Island
Tour West Java
Underwater Archaeology
Vehicle registration plates of Indonesia
World's Military Corner
Follow Blog via Email
Enter your email address to follow this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Join 396 other followers
Pages
About
Contact
Home
LIST OF PACKAGES TOUR (PRICES)
Search
Create a free website or blog at WordPress.com .
|
The Sunspot Theme .
Mannaismaya Adventure's Blog
Blog at WordPress.com .
The Sunspot Theme .
Follow
Follow “Mannaismaya Adventure's Blog”
Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.
Join 396 other followers
Build a website with WordPress.com
Add your thoughts here... (optional)
Post to
Cancel