US to sell precision-guided bombs to Saudi Arabia - Wikinews, the free news source
US to sell precision-guided bombs to Saudi Arabia
From Wikinews, the free news source you can write!
Unchecked
Jump to:					 navigation , 					 search
Middle East
Other stories from Middle East
13 October 2015:
Israelis killed, injured in Jerusalem bus attack; wave of violence continues
1 October 2015:
Russian jets carry out strikes in Syria
24 September 2015:
Mecca stampede kills hundreds
16 September 2015:
Kuwaiti court sentences seven to death for June mosque bombing
12 September 2015:
At least 107 killed in Mecca crane collapse
... More articles here
Location of Middle East
To write, edit, start or view other articles on Middle East, see the Middle East Portal
Tuesday, January 15, 2008
The
Bush administration
officially notified
Congress
Monday of its intention to sell sophisticated precision-guided bombs to
Saudi Arabia . The action, coinciding with
President Bush 's visit to Saudi Arabia, is part of a broader U.S. effort to bolster Gulf allies in the face of a more assertive
Iran . VOA's David Gollust reports from the State Department.
The Bush administration has already briefed Congress on its arms sales plans for Saudi Arabia. Monday's announcement sets in motion a 30-day period in which the
House
and
Senate
can block the plan with a joint resolution - an action that appears highly unlikely.
Under the proposed deal, worth more than $120 million, the
United States
would provide Saudi Arabia with 900 kits and associated equipment to convert conventional gravity bombs into GPS-guided smart-bombs, known as
JDAMs .
The weapons are a mainstay of the U.S. military arsenal and their accuracy would vastly enhance the capability of the
Saudi Air Force , which has top-of-the-line U.S.-made fighter-bomber aircraft.
Six JDAM bombs on an
ejector rack , under the wing of a
B-52 .
The sale is part of a broader $20-billion arms package for Saudi Arabia and other Gulf states announced by Secretary of State
Condoleezza Rice
and Defense Secretary
Robert Gates
last August on a mission to the Gulf, aimed at shoring up U.S. allies concerned about Iranian influence in the region.
Several elements of the broader package including sales of
Patriot
anti-missile systems to
Kuwait
and the
United Arab Emirates , and upgrades for Saudi Arabia's
AWACS
airborne command and control planes, have already gotten congressional assent. Officials here say they also expect the Saudi J-DAMS sale to proceed despite concerns expressed by some congressional supporters of
Israel .
At the time the Gulf weapons sales package was announced last year, the Bush administration also committed to a 10-year, $30-billion arms package for Israel, representing a 25 per cent increase in annual U.S. arms aid to that country.
Briefing reporters, State Department Spokesman Sean McCormack said the administration has assured Congress it would do nothing to upset Israel's military edge over potential enemies in the region.
"We've spent a lot of time assuring that we abide by our commitments to a qualitative military edge for Israel," said Sean McCormack. "This is something that
President Reagan
first talked about and it's been reiterated and reconfirmed by each successive president after that. We're committed to maintaining that qualitative military edge for Israel."
Israel itself has not protested the pending sale. Israeli officials have said they anticipate being provided with a new-generation U.S. smart bomb more capable than J-DAMS, which have been in service for more than a decade.
A spokesman for House Foreign Affairs Committee Chairman Tom Lantos, a prominent advocate for Israel in Congress, said he does not intend to push a resolution of disapproval.
However one House member,
New York
Democrat
Anthony Weiner , said he would introduce such a measure and already has more than 30 co-sponsors.
Critics of the package have faulted Saudi Arabia's record in combating terrorism and advancing political reform. Under questioning here, Spokesman McCormack said the Saudi government has made "quantum leaps" in action against terrorist cells and financing in recent years and has begun the process of reform, though not necessarily at a pace that would please some critics.
Two-thirds majorities of the members in both houses would be required to block the sale and officials here say chances for that appear nil.
Have an opinion on this story?
Post it!
Sources
Sonia Verma. " George Bush offers allies $20bn of arms to counter Iran " —  Times Online , January 15, 2008
David Gollust. " US to Sell Precision-Guided Bombs to Saudi Arabia " —  VOA News , January 14, 2008
This article includes material from
US to Sell Precision-Guided Bombs to Saudi Arabia
by
VOA News , which is in the
public domain .
Share this:
This page is
archived , and is no longer publicly editable.
Articles presented on Wikinews reflect the specific time at which they were written and published, and do not attempt to encompass events or knowledge which occur or become known after their publication.
Got a correction? Add the template {{ editprotected }} to the
talk page
along with your corrections, and it will be
brought to the attention of
the
administrators .
Please note that due to our
archival policy , we will not alter or update the content of articles that are archived, but will only accept requests to make grammatical and formatting corrections.
Note that some listed sources or external links may no longer be available online due to age.
Retrieved from " https://en.wikinews.org/w/index.php?title=US_to_sell_precision-guided_bombs_to_Saudi_Arabia&oldid=2470287 "
Categories :
Middle East January 15, 2008 Published Archived Politics and conflicts North America United States Asia Saudi Arabia Iran Israel United Arab Emirates Kuwait Economy and business Anthony Weiner Hidden category:
Imported news
Navigation menu
Personal tools
Create account Log in
Namespaces
Article
Collaboration
Variants
Views
Read
View source
View history
More
Search
Navigation
Main page Newsroom Recent changes Random article Archives Free use media upload
Wikinews
Help Pillars of writing Write an article Water cooler Style guide Live chat Donate Contact us
Regions
Africa Asia Central America Europe Middle East North America Oceania South America
In other languages
Add links
Print/export
Create a book Download as PDF Printable version
Tools
What links here Related changes Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page
This page was last modified on 14 March 2014, at 17:30.
All text created after September 25, 2005 available under the terms of the
Creative Commons Attribution 2.5
License, unless otherwise specified.
Contributions must be attributed to
Wikinews ; see
Terms of use
for details. Copyright on images may vary, please check individual image pages prior to duplication.
By using this site, you agree to the
Terms of Use
and
Privacy Policy. Wikinews ®, and the
Wikinews
logo are registered trademarks of the
Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. Wikinews
is not responsible for the content of external sites.
Privacy policy
About Wikinews
Disclaimers
Developers
Mobile view