Aerial refueling
Other Aviation Articles
Airports Worldwide
Advertise For Free!
Aerial refueling
By
Wikipedia,
the free encyclopedia,
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Aerial_refueling
A wing-mounted refuelling pod with a trailed drogue ready to give fuel to a probe-equipped receiver aircraft
A C-17 Globemaster refuels through the boom of a KC-135 Stratotanker
Boom and receptacle : USAF
KC-135R Stratotanker , two
F-15s
(twin fins) and two
F-16s , on an aerial refueling training mission
Probe and drogue : USAF
HC-130P
HIFRs a
HH-60 Pave Hawk
Aerial refueling , also called
air refueling ,
in-flight refueling
( IFR ),
air-to-air refueling
( AAR ) or
tanking , is the process of transferring
fuel
from one
aircraft
(the tanker) to another (the receiver) during flight. Applied to
helicopters , it is known as HAR for Helicopter Aerial Refueling. The procedure allows the receiving aircraft to remain airborne longer and, more important, to extend its range and therefore those of its weapons or its deployment radius. A series of air refuelings can give range limited only by crew fatigue and engineering factors such as engine oil consumption.
Because the receiver aircraft can be topped up with extra fuel in the air, air refueling can allow a
take-off
with a greater
payload
which could be weapons, cargo or personnel: the maximum take-off weight is maintained by carrying less fuel and topping up once airborne. Alternatively, a shorter take-off roll can be achieved because take-off can be at a lighter weight before refueling once airborne.
Usually, the aircraft providing the fuel is specially designed for the task, although refueling pods can be fitted to existing aircraft designs if the "probe and drogue" system is to be used (see later). The cost of the refueling equipment on both tanker and receiver aircraft and the specialized aircraft handling of the aircraft to be refueled (very close "line astern" formation flying) has resulted in the activity only being used in military operations. There is no known regular civilian in-flight refueling activity. In large-scale military operations, air refueling is extensively used. For instance, in the
Gulf War
and the Iraqi
invasion of Kuwait
and the
Iraq War , all coalition air sorties were air-refueled except for a few short-range ground attack sorties in the Kuwait area.
There are two main types of Flight Refuelling systems, "Probe and Drogue", and "Flying Boom".
In probe and drogue systems the receiver aircraft is fitted with a rigid forward-facing tube with a valve on the forward end; this is the "probe" and the aft end is connected to the aircraft fuel system so that it can be topped up when fuel flows through the probe during a refuelling "contact". The pilot must be able to see the probe in order to manoeuvre it into the "drogue" that is a funnel-shaped receptacle on the end of a flexible fuel pipe or "hose" that is un-reeled in flight from the tanker aircraft and supplies the fuel to the probe when the two are mated together. Practical probe and drogue systems were originally developed in the late 1930s by the company Flight Refuelling Limited (FRL) in the UK and deployed after the 1939-45 war in the late 1940s and 1950s. The FRL standard of fuel valve was adopted by NATO and is a world standard for probe and drogue systems, allowing interchangeable refuelling operations between different forces. Such systems can be retro-fitted to aircraft without much difficulty, both pod-based tanker systems with deployable hoses, and probes for receiver aircraft. A tanker can have a centre-line hose and a hose pod under each wing. It is therefore possible to refuel more than one fighter aircraft at a time. For these reasons, probe and drogue systems are more common than the Flying Boom system described below.
In the Flying Boom system, the receiver has a receptacle in the top of the fuselage that is designed to mate with the end of a long, rigid, extendable tube (the "boom") that is pivoted from the rear of the tanker aircraft and is controlled up-and-down and side-to-side through small winglets, operated by the boom operator (the "boomer"). The boom operator is stationed at the rear of the tanker and can view the receiver aircraft and the boom through a rearward-facing windscreen. The receiver pilot positions the aircraft in approximately the right position and the "boomer" flies the end of the boom to the receptacle in the top of the receiver aircraft, mating the two together and then pumping fuel. The original Flying Boom system was developed by the Boeing Company for aircraft of the US Air Force Strategic Air Command (SAC). The diameter of the boom fuel pipes is greater than that of probe and drogue systems and fuel flow rates can be higher. However, a Flying Boom tanker is a specialised aircraft and the boom can only be fuselage-mounted.
History and development
Pioneer experiments
Capt.
Lowell H. Smith
and
Lt.
John P. Richter
receiving the first mid-air refueling on June 27, 1923, from a plane flown by 1st Lt. Virgil Hine and 1st Lt. Frank W. Seifert.
Some of the earliest experiments in aerial refueling took place in the 1920s, when it was as simple as two slow-flying aircraft flying in formation, with a hose run down from a hand-held fuel tank on one aircraft and placed into the usual fuel filler of the other. The first mid-air refueling between two planes occurred on June 27, 1923, between two
Airco DH-4 B
biplanes
of the
United States Army Air Service . An endurance record was set by three DH-4Bs (a receiver and two tankers) on
August 27-28 , 1923, in which the receiver airplane remained aloft for more than 37 hours using nine mid-air refuelings to transfer 687 gallons of
aviation gasoline
and 38 gallons of engine oil. The same crews demonstrated the utility of the technique on October 25, 1923, when a DH-4 flew from
Sumas, Washington , on the
Canadian
border to
Tijuana, Mexico , landing in
San Diego , using mid-air refuelings at
Eugene, Oregon , and
Sacramento, California .
In 1929, a group of
U. S. Army Air Corps
fliers, led by then Major
Carl Spaatz , set an endurance record of over 150 hours with the
Question Mark
over Los Angeles. Between June 11 and July 4, 1930, the brothers John, Kenneth, Albert, and Walter Hunter set a new record of 553 hours 40 minutes over Chicago using two
Stinson SM-1 Detroiters
as refueler and receiver. Aerial refueling remained a very dangerous process until 1935 when brothers
Fred and Al Key
demonstrated a spill-free refueling nozzle, designed by A. D. Hunter. They exceeded the Hunters' record by nearly 100 hours in a
Curtiss Robin
monoplane
[1] , staying aloft for more than 27 days.
A
F-101A Voodoo
(top right),
B-66 Destroyer
(top left) and
F-100D Super Sabre
refuel from a
KB-50 J tanker in the early 1960s
There were parallel experiments conducted in Europe; at
Le Bourget
the
Aéro-Club de France
and the 34th Aviation Regiment of the
French Air Force
were able to demonstrate passing fuel between machines at the annual aviation fete at
Vincennes
in 1928. The UK's
Royal Aircraft Establishment
were also trialling 'refuelling-in-mid-air', with the to use this technique to extend the range of the long-distance
flying boats
that serviced the
British Empire . By 1931 they had demonstrated refueling between two
Vickers Virginias , with fuel flow controlled by an automatic valve on the hose which would cut off if contact was lost. The aviation pioneer
Alan Cobham
bought a patent from David Nicolson and John Lord for £480 each and then developed the probe and drogue method and gave public demonstrations of the system. In 1934 he founded
Flight Refuelling Ltd . (FRL), and by 1938 had used an automatic system to refuel aircraft as large as the
Short Empire
flying boat
Cambria
from an
Armstrong Whitworth AW.23 .
Handley Page Harrows
were used to refuel the Empire flying boats for regular transatlantic crossings. FRL still exists as part of
Cobham plc .
Modern specialized
tanker
aircraft have equipment specially designed for the task of offloading fuel to the receiver aircraft, based on Hunter's design, even at the higher speeds modern
jet aircraft
typically need to remain airborne.
Operational air refueling
In January 1948, General Carl Spaatz, then the first
Chief of Staff
of the new
United States Air Force
made aerial refueling a top priority of the service. In March 1948 USAF purchased two sets of Cobham's refueling equipment, which had been in practical use with
BOAC
since 1946, and manufacturing rights to the system. FRL also provided a year of technical assistance. The sets were immediately installed in two
B-29 Superfortresses , with plans to equip 80 B-29s.
Flight testing began in May 1948 at
Wright-Patterson Air Force Base ,
Ohio , and was so successful that in June orders went out to equip all new B-50's and subsequent bombers with receiving equipment. Two dedicated Air Refueling units were formed on June 30, 1948: the 43rd ARS at
Davis-Monthan Air Force Base ,
Arizona , and the 509th ARS at
Walker Air Force Base ,
New Mexico . The first ARS aircraft used a hose refueling system, but testing with a boom system followed quickly in the autumn of 1948.
In 1949 from February 26 to March 3 an American
B-50 Superfortress
Lucky Lady II
of the 43rd Bomb Wing flew non-stop around the World in 94 hours, 1 min., a feat made possible by 3 aerial refuelings from 4 pairs of
KB-29M
tankers of the 43rd ARS. Before the mission, crews of the 43rd had experienced only a single operational air refueling contact. The flight started and ended at
Carswell Air Force Base
in
Fort Worth, Texas
with the refuelings accomplished over
West Africa , the Pacific ocean near
Guam
and between
Hawaii
and the
West Coast .
This first non-stop circumnavigation of the globe proved that, because of aerial refueling, vast distances and geographical barriers were no longer an obstacle to military air power. In 1949 four additional ARS units were organized by the USAF and both the 43rd and 509th ARS became fully operational.
The first use of aerial refueling in combat took place during the Korean War.
Aerial refueling systems
The two most common approaches for making the union between the two aircraft are the
boom and receptacle
system (sometimes called
flying boom ) and the
probe and drogue
system. There is also a combination “boom drogue adaptor” that combines the first two methods. Much less popular was the
wing-to-wing
system, which is no longer used.
Boom and receptacle (The
Boeing
"Flying Boom")
USAF
C-5
approaches a KC-135R
USAF
AWACS
approaches a KC-135R
The “flying boom” is a rigid, telescoping tube that an operator on the tanker aircraft extends and inserts into a receptacle on the receiving aircraft. All boom-equipped tankers (i.e. KC-135, KC-10), have a single boom, and can refuel one aircraft at a time with this mechanism.
History of Flying Boom
In the late 1940s, General
Curtis LeMay , commander of the
Strategic Air Command
(SAC), asked Boeing to develop a refueling system that could transfer fuel at a higher rate than had been possible with earlier systems using flexible hoses. Boeing engineers came up with the concept of the “Flying Boom” system. The B-29 was the first to employ the flying boom system, and between 1950 and 1951, 116 original B-29s, designated KB-29Ps, were converted at the Boeing plant at Renton, Washington State. Boeing went on to develop the world’s first production aerial tanker, the
KC-97 Stratotanker , a piston-engined Boeing Stratocruiser (USAF designation C-97 StratoFreighter) with a Boeing-developed flying boom and extra kerosene (jet fuel) tanks feeding the boom. The Stratocruiser airliner itself was developed from the B-29 bomber after World War II. In the KC-97, the mixed gasoline/kerosene fuel system was clearly not desirable and it was obvious that a jet-powered tanker aircraft would be the next development, having a single type of fuel for both its own engines and for passing to receiver aircraft. It was no surprise that, after the KC-97, Boeing began receiving contracts from the USAF to build jet tankers based on the
Boeing 367-80
(Dash-80) airframe. The result was the Boeing Model 717, Military designation KC-135, of which 732 were built.
Flying Boom Operation
The flying boom is attached to the rear of the tanker aircraft. The attachment is flexible allowing boom movement up to 25 degrees left or right, and from flush with the bottom of the aircraft up to 50 degrees down. Mounted within the outer structural portion of the boom is a rigid tube through which the fuel passes. The tip end of the fuel tube has a nozzle attached on a flexible ball joint. The nozzle mates to the "receptacle" in the receiver aircraft during fuel transfer. A
poppet valve
in the end of the nozzle prevents fuel from exiting the tube until "contact" is properly made between the nozzle and receptacle. Toggles in the receptacle engage the nozzle, holding it locked during contact. Mounted on the hollow shaft surrounding the fuel tube are a pair of control surfaces which equal the functionality of a conventional aircraft
V-tail
stabilizing surface setup, or alternatively, a four-surface arrangement closely resembling the tail surfaces of the late World War II
Heinkel He 162
jet fighter, allowing aerodynamic control of the boom. The fuel tube extends and retracts
hydraulically ; it also "freewheels" in and out in response to the receiver's fore and aft movement during contact. The receiver's receptacle is typically fitted on the aircraft's centerline, but design considerations may require other locations.
To complete an aerial refueling, the receiver aircraft's pilot begins by flying formation directly below and approximately 50 feet (15 m) behind the boom. When cleared, the receiver aircraft moves forward to the contact position aided with either voice commands (using radio) or visual commands (using lights on the bottom of the tanker) from the crew member operating the boom, called a " boom operator " or "boomer" -- an enlisted crew member in the
USAF . On KC-135 tanker aircraft the boomer lies prone on a couch or pallet; on the KC-10 the boomer sits. On either tanker, the boomer's position is in the back of the aircraft facing aft. Once the receiver aircraft reaches the
contact position
its pilot attempts to hold in place with as little relative motion between the two aircraft as possible. Using the ruddevator control stick and the extension/retraction lever, the boomer precisely positions the boom's nozzle into the receiver's receptacle. Following toggle engagement (locking the boom in place)
pumps
operated by the tanker's pilot force fuel through the boom into the receiver.
USAF KC-135R boom operator view
While in contact, pilot director indicators (two rows of lights on the bottom of the tanker's
fuselage
change in relation to the nozzle's up/down and fore/aft movement) aid the receiver pilot in remaining within the
air refueling envelope.
The air refueling envelope -- a roughly cube-shaped area within which the nozzle and receptacle must remain during contact -- is slightly different for each receiver. Its boundaries are based either on boom movement limitations, or to prevent the receiver from moving into a position where any portion of the boom might touch the receiver outside the receptacle while in contact. The boom's mechanical limits stem from both the structural limitations of yoke and trunnion system mounting the boom to the tanker, and the maximum deflection of the flexible nozzle. Should receiver movement left, right, up or down exceed the nozzle's deflection limits the nozzle could become mechanically bound in the receptacle (like trying to remove a key from a lock while pulling sideways instead of pulling straight back) preventing nozzle/receptacle disengagement. The boomer follows the receiver aircraft's movement with the ruddevator control stick to maintain alignment between the inner fuel tube and the outer structural portion of the boom. He or she also monitors the receiver's position, via three boom position indicators, and commands the toggles in the receptacle to disengage the nozzle -- a disconnect -- before the receiver aircraft exceeds any published air refueling envelope limit.
When fueling is complete, the boomer or receiver pilot (typically the boomer) commands a disconnect. Nozzle/receptacle disengagement might also occur following an automatic
pressure disconnect
when the receiver's fuel system has been filled to capacity. Following disconnect, the boomer retracts the fuel tube from the receptacle and flies the boom clear of the receiver. While not in use, the boom is flown or hoisted (via a cable and hydraulic pump) up to the bottom of the tanker and latched in position to minimize drag. The receiver backs away and clears the tanker, then continues on its mission.
Flying Boom Systems in Service
USAF fixed wing aircraft use the flying boom system exclusively. In addition to the US Air Force, the boom system is in use by the Netherlands (KDC-10), Israel (modified Boeing 707) and Turkey (ex-USAF KC-135R). Possibly the largest tanker aircraft, Iran took delivery of Boeing 747 tankers equipped with a single boom and three drogues in early 1976, but the current status of these aircraft is unknown. Both Japan and Italy have contracted with Boeing for tankers based on the B767.
The European EADS group has developed a boom refueling system using "fly-by-wire" controls that is compatible with other boom systems. This is offered on modified European Airbus type aircraft that are configured as tankers.
Advantages of Boom and Receptacle
Higher fuel flow rates (up to 1000 US gallons / 6,000lbs per minute for the
KC-135
tanker) can be achieved with the large diameter of the pipe in the flying boom, resulting in much less time required to refuel compared to the smaller diameter required of a flexible hose system. Unlike bombers and other large aircraft, however, fighter aircraft can only ‘’accept’’ fuel at 1000-3000 lbs per minute and cannot use the boom’s maximum flow rate. The flying boom, therefore, loses its primary advantage over the hose-and-drogue system when refueling fighter aircraft and requires a reduction in refueling pressure when servicing these aircraft.
The boom method eliminates the requirement for the (often very large and less maneuverable) receiver aircraft pilot to precisely fly a probe into a drogue, something that is easily performed by fighter sized aircraft, but would be extremely challenging even for the best pilot in a larger aircraft.
A tanker with a flying boom can be converted in the field to accommodate probe-equipped aircraft, if necessary.
Disadvantages of Boom and Receptacle
The cost to train and employ the "boomer" -- 1990s estimates place the cost to train a boom operator at nearly $1,000,000.
Incompatibility with probe and drogue systems, which are prevalent on US Navy, and most non-US aircraft.
Complexity of tanker design.
Only one receiver aircraft can refuel at a time.
Cannot be used to refuel most helicopters.
Cannot be installed on carrier based aircraft.
Probe and Drogue
Tornado GR4
refueling from the drogue of an RAF
VC10
tanker over Iraq
As its name implies, this refueling method employs a flexible hose that trails from the tanker aircraft. The
drogue
(or
para-drogue ), sometimes called a
basket , is a fitting resembling a windsock or
shuttlecock , attached at its narrow end with a valve to a flexible hose. The drogue stabilizes the hose in flight and provides a funnel to aid insertion of the receiver aircraft probe into the hose. The hose connects to a Hose Drum Unit (HDU). When not in use, the hose/drogue is reeled completely into the HDU. The receiver has a
probe , which is a rigid arm placed on the aircraft's nose or fuselage. This probe is often retracted when not in use, particularly on high speed aircraft. At the end of the probe is a valve that is closed until it mates with the drogue, after which it opens and allows fuel to pass from tanker to receiver. The valves in the probe and drogue that are most commonly used are to a
NATO
standard and were originally developed by the company
Flight Refuelling Limited . This standardization allows drogue-equipped tanker aircraft from many nations the ability to refuel probe-equipped aircraft from other nations. The NATO standard probe system incorporates shear rivets that attach the refueling valve to the end of the probe. This is so that if a large side-load or up-and-down load develops while in contact with the drogue, the rivets shear and the fuel valve breaks off rather than the probe or receiver aircraft suffering structural damage. A so-called "broken probe" (actually a broken fuel valve, as described above) may happen if poor flying technique is used by the receiver pilot, or in turbulence. Sometimes the valve is retained in the tanker drogue and prevents further refueling from that drogue until removed during ground maintenance.
Buddy store
F/A-18 buddy refueling
A "buddy store" or “buddy pod” is an external pod loaded on an aircraft
hardpoint
that contains a hose and drogue system HDU. Buddy stores allow fighter / bomber aircraft to be reconfigured for "buddy tanking" other aircraft. This allows an air combat force without dedicated/specialized tanker support (for instance, a
carrier air wing ) to extend the range of its strike aircraft.
Probe and Drogue Operation
The tanker aircraft flies straight and level and extends the hose/drogue which is allowed to trail out behind and below the tanker under normal aerodynamic forces. The pilot of the receiver aircraft extends his probe (if required) and uses normal flight controls to "fly" the refueling probe directly into the basket. This requires a closure rate of approximately two knots (walking speed) in order to establish solid probe/drogue couple and pushing the hose several feet into the HDU. Too little closure will cause an incomplete connection and no fuel flow (or occasionally leaking fuel). Too much closure is dangerous because it can trigger a strong transverse
oscillation
in the hose, severing the probe tip. The optimal approach is from behind and below (not level with) the drogue. Because the drogue is relatively light (typically soft canvas webbing) and subject to aerodynamic forces, it can be pushed around by the bow wave of approaching aircraft, exacerbating engagement even in smooth air. After initial contact, the hose and drogue is pushed forward by the receiver a certain distance (typically, a few feet), and the hose is reeled slowly back onto its drum in the HDU. This opens the tanker's main refueling valve allowing fuel to flow to the drogue under the appropriate pressure (assuming the tanker crew has energized the pump). Tension on the hose is aerodynamically "balanced" by a motor in the HDU so that as the receiver aircraft moves fore and aft, the hose retracts and extends, thus preventing bends in the hose that would cause undue side loads on the probe. Fuel flow is typically indicated by illumination of a green light near the HDU. If the hose is pushed in too far or not far enough, a cutoff switch will inhibit fuel flow, which is typically accompanied by an amber light. Disengagement is commanded by the tanker pilot with a red light.
S-3 Viking
buddy tanker with drogue deployed
Probe-and-Drogue Systems in Service
USAF helicopters, and all US Navy and Marine Corps aircraft refuel using the “hose-and-drogue.” NATO countries and other western allies also refuel with the hose-and drogue. The probe-and-drogue system was first used in service on late models of the
KB-29M Superfortress . Its first use in combat occurred on May 29, 1952 when twelve
F-84s
were refueled during a mission from
Itazuke, Japan
to
Sariwon, North Korea . Also in the 1950s, the
Royal Air Force
converted two squadrons of
Valiant
bombers to the tanker role by mounting a Hose Drum Unit (HDU) in the bomb bay. These were
No. 214 Squadron RAF
at
Marham , operational in 1957, and
No. 90 Squadron RAF
at
Honingon , operational in 1958. In the 1960s the Valiant was replaced by
Victor
tankers that had up to three refueling points, one under the fuselage and a pod under each wing.
Advantages of Probe and Drogue
Simpler/cheaper tanker design.
The probe-and-drogue method allows aircraft not originally designed as tankers to be converted by attaching a refueling pod.
Tankers can be equipped with multipoint hose-and-drogue systems allowing two (or more) aircraft to refuel simultaneously from the same tanker, reducing time spent by as much as 75% for a four aircraft strike package . Multiple refueling points also offers redundancy over the single boom system.
Can be used to refuel properly-equipped helicopters, such as the
MH-53E
Sea Dragon.
No boom operator is needed for the refueling as the drogue can be operated by the pilot of the tanker.
Disadvantages of Probe and Drogue
The lower flow rates (1,500-2,000lbs/min) available from the lower pressure and limited diameter of the hose used in the probe-and-drogue system result in longer refueling times compared to the Flying Boom for larger aircraft.
Drogue subject to turbulence and aerodynamic forces (bow wave) of approaching aircraft.
Drogue subject to damage by poor receiver technique, making further refueling difficult or impossible.
Precise placement of the probe into the drogue by the receiver aircraft pilot precludes large receiver aircraft installation.
Drogue only equipped tankers cannot be easily fitted with boom systems.
Boom Drogue Adapter Units
Cockpit view of KC-135 boom in the US Navy "Iron Maiden" configuration.
Air National Guard KC-135 tanks a US Navy Hornet
USAF KC-135 and
French Air Force
KC-135FR refueling-boom equipped tankers can be field converted to a probe-and-drogue system using a special adapter unit. In this configuration, the tanker retains its articulated boom, but has a hose/drogue at the end of it instead of the usual nozzle. The tanker boom operator holds the boom in a static position, while the receiver aircraft then flies the probe into the basket. Unlike the soft canvas basket used in most drogue systems, the adapter units used on adapter units utilize a steel basket, grimly known as the “iron maiden” by
naval aviators
because of its unforgiving nature. Soft drogues can be contacted slightly off center, wherein the probe is guided into the hose receptacle by the canvas drogue. The metal drogue, when contacted even slightly off center, will pivot out of place, potentially “slapping” the aircraft’s fuselage and causing damage.
The other major difference with this system is that when contacted, the hose does not “retract” into an HDU. Instead, the hose bends depending on how far it is pushed toward the boom. If it is pushed too far, it can loop around the probe or nose of the aircraft, damage the windscreen, or cause contact with the rigid boom. If not pushed far enough, the probe will become disengaged ceasing fueling. Because of a much smaller position keeping tolerance, staying properly connected to a KC-135 adapter unit is considerably more difficult than staying in a traditional hose/drogue configuration. When fueling is complete, the receiver carefully backs off until the probe refueling valve disconnects from the valve in the basket. Off center disengagements, like engagements, can cause the drogue to “prang” the probe and/or strike the aircraft’s fuselage.
Multiple Refueling Systems
Some tankers have both a boom and one or more complete hose-and-drogue systems. Where these are attached to the wings, the system is known as the Multi-Point Refueling System or MPRS. The USAF
KC-10
has both a flying boom and also a separate hose and drogue system manufactured by Cobham plc. Both are on the aircraft centerline at the tail of the aircraft, so only one system can be used at once. However, such a system allows all types of probe- and receptacle-equipped aircraft to be refueled, including large aircraft that are probe-equipped and do not have the maneuverability to take fuel from an off-centerline wing pod. Many KC-135 and some KC-10s are also equipped with dual under-wing hose-and-drogue attachments known as Wing Air Refueling Pods (WARPs).
Wing-to-wing Refueling
In this method, similar to the probe and drogue method but more complicated, the tanker aircraft released a flexible hose from its wingtip. An aircraft, flying beside it, had to catch the hose with a special lock under its wingtip. After the hose was locked, and the connection was established, the fuel was pumped. It was used on a small number of Soviet
Tu-4
and
Tu-16
only (the tanker variant was Tu-16Z).
Grappling Systems
Some historic systems used for pioneering aerial refueling used the grappling method, where the tanker aircraft unreeled the fuel hose and the receiver aircraft would grapple the hose midair, reel it in and connect it so that fuel can be transferred either with the assistance of pumps or simply by
gravity feed . This was the method used on the
Question Mark
endurance flight in 1929, and also the first ever non-stop around-the-world flight by
Strategic Air Command 's
B-50
nuclear -capable bomber nicknamed the
Lucky Lady II
in 1949.
Compatibility Issues
The probe-and drogue system is not compatible with flying boom equipment, creating a problem for military planners where mixed forces are involved. For this reason (as well as other advantages of probe/drogue systems), the
USAF
has considered converting boom systems to probe-and-drogue.
Strategic and tactical implications
An
F-15E Strike Eagle
disengages from a
KC-10 Extender , using a boom with an
He 162
style of control surface
Strategic uses and considerations
The development of the
KC-97
and
KC-135 Stratotankers
was pushed by the
Cold War
requirement of the
United States
to be able to keep fleets of
nuclear -armed
B-47 Stratojet
and
B-52 Stratofortress
strategic bombers
airborne around-the-clock either to threaten retaliation against a
Soviet
strike for
mutual assured destruction , or to bomb the U.S.S.R. first had it been ordered to do so by the
President of the United States . The bombers would fly orbits around their assigned positions from which they were to enter Soviet airspace if they received the order, and the tankers would refill the bombers' fuel tanks so that they could keep a force in the air 24 hours a day, and still have enough fuel to reach their targets in the Soviet Union. This also ensured that a
first strike
against the bombers'
airfields
could not obliterate the U.S.'s ability to retaliate by bomber. A noted example of refueling used in this manner in the movies can be seen in the opening credits of
Dr. Strangelove .
In the UK, in 1958 Valiant tankers were developed with one HDU mounted in the bomb-bay. Valiant tankers were used to demonstrate radius of action by refueling a Valiant bomber non-stop from UK to Singapore in 1960 and a Vulcan bomber to Australia in 1961. Other UK exercises involving refueling aircraft from Valiant tankers included
Javelin
and
Lightning
fighters, also Vulcan and Victor bombers. For instance, in 1962 a squadron of Javelin air defense aircraft was refueled in stages from the UK to
India
and back (exercise "Shiksha"). After the retirement of the Valiant in 1965, the Handley Page Victor took over the UK refueling role and had three hoses (HDUs). These were a fuselage-mounted HDU and a refueling pod on each wing. The center hose could refuel any probe-equipped aircraft, the wing pods could refuel the more maneuverable fighter/ground attack types.
A byproduct of this development effort and the building of large numbers of tankers was that these tankers were also available to refuel
cargo aircraft ,
fighter aircraft , and
ground attack aircraft , in addition to bombers, for ferrying to distant theaters of operations. This was much used during the
Vietnam War , when many aircraft could not have covered the transoceanic distances without aerial refueling, even with intermediate bases in
Hawaii
and
Okinawa . In addition to allowing the transport of the aircraft themselves, the cargo aircraft could also carry
matériel , supplies, and personnel to
Vietnam
without landing to refuel. KC-135s were also frequently used for refueling of air combat missions from air bases in Thailand.
The USAF
SR-71 Blackbird
strategic reconnaissance aircraft made frequent use of air-to-air refueling. Its home base was at
Beale AFB
in central
California , but to make actual reconnaissance missions over enemy territory, it was necessary to deploy the craft to forward bases in Okinawa or in Europe. Hence, there were lots of trans-Pacific and trans-Atlantic flights. Also, for safe
takeoff
performance, it was necessary for the SR-71 to take off with less-than-full fuel tanks. The SR-71 would then rendezvous with a specially
modified KC-135
to top up its tanks. Then the SR-71 was capable of flying for many hours on its own. This tanker variant was necessary because the SR-71 used a special fuel,
JP-7 , with a very high
flash point
(needed to withstand the high skin temperatures of Mach 3+ cruising flight) which could not be used in other aircraft engines and the
KC-135Q
was equipped with a separate internal bladder system to carry and deliver this non-standard fuel.
A
KC-10 Extender
from
Travis Air Force Base , California, refuels an
F-22 Raptor
Tactical uses and considerations
The capability of refueling after takeoff conveys two considerable tactical advantages to those forces with access to tankers. It allows attack aircraft, fighters, and bombers to reach distances they could not without refueling, and patrol aircraft to remain airborne longer. Additionally, since an aircraft's maximum takeoff weight is generally less than the maximum weight with which it can stay airborne, this allows an aircraft to take off with only a partial fuel load, and carry additional
payload
weight instead. Then, after reaching altitude, the aircraft's tanks can be topped up by a tanker, bringing it up to its maximum flight weight.
Vietnam War
During the
Vietnam War , it was common for USAF fighter-bombers flying from
Thailand
to
North Vietnam
to refuel from KC-135s en-route to their target. Besides extending their range, this enabled the
F-105s
and
F-4 Phantoms
to carry more bombs and rockets. Tankers were also available for refueling on the way back if necessary. In addition to ferrying aircraft across the
Pacific Ocean , aerial refueling made it possible for battle damaged fighters, with heavily leaking fuel tanks, to hook up to the tankers and let the tanker feed its engine(s) until the point where they could glide to the base and land. This saved numerous aircraft.
The US Navy frequently used carrier-based aerial tankers like the
KA-3 Skywarrior
to refuel Navy and Marine aircraft such as the F-4,
A-4 Skyhawk ,
A-6 Intruder , and
A-7 Corsair II . This was particularly useful when a pilot returning from an airstrike was having difficulty landing and was running low on jet fuel. This gave him fuel for more attempts at landing for a successful "trap" on an aircraft carrier. The KA-3 could also refuel fighters on extended Combat Air Patrol. USMC jets based in South Vietnam and Thailand also used USMC
KC-130
Hercules transports for air-to-air refueling on missions.
Falklands War/South Atlantic War
During the
Falklands War , aerial refueling played a vital role in all of the Argentine successful attacks against the
Royal Navy . The
Argentine Air Force
had only 2 KC-130H Hercules available and they were used to refuel both Air Force and Navy
A-4 Skyhawks
and Navy
Super Etendards
in their
Exocet
strikes. The Hercules on several occasions approached the islands (where the
Sea Harriers
were in patrol) to search and guide the A-4s in their returning flights. On one of those flights (callsign
Jaguar ) one of the KC-130s went to rescue a damaged A-4 and delivered 39,000 lb (18,000 kg) of fuel while carrying it to its airfield at
San Julian . On the other hand, the
Mirage IIIs
and
Daggers
lack of air refueling capability prevented them from achieving better results. The Mirages were unable to reach the islands with a strike payload, and the Daggers could do so only for a 5 minute strike flight.
On the British side, air refueling was carried out by the
Handley Page Victor
K.2 and after the Argentine surrender by modified C-130 Hercules tankers. These aircraft aided deployments from the UK to the
Ascension Island
staging post in the Atlantic and further deployments south of bomber, transport and maritime patrol aircraft. The most famous refueling missions were the " Operation Black Buck " sorties which involved 14 Victor tankers refueling single
Avro Vulcan
bombers to attack the Argentine-captured airfield at Port Stanley on the
Falkland Islands . They attempted to knock out the Port Stanley runway, blocking the Argentine C-130 Hercules reinforcement operations. The raids were the longest-range bombing raids in history until surpassed by the
B-52
in the 1991
Gulf War
and later
B-2
flights.
The Victor tankers, retired in 1993, were replaced in RAF service by
Lockheed L-1011
and
Vickers VC10
transports which were bought second-hand and fitted as tankers. The L-1011s, converted by
Marshall Aerospace , and VC10s, converted by British Aerospace, can refuel any aircraft fitted with the NATO standard probe system.
Libya
During
Operation El Dorado Canyon , several
F-111 Aardvark
fighter-bombers stationed in the
United Kingdom
utilized aerial refueling to enable them to operate non-stop against targets in
Libya . Since the aircraft were allowed to cross neither French nor Spanish airspace, they had to make a detour around the
Iberian Peninsula
and stay above International waters during all transit.
Persian Gulf War
F-14 Tomcats
from the Red Sea and Persian Gulf await their turn refueling from a KC-10A over Iraq during
Desert Storm .
During the time of Operation Desert Shield, the military build up to the Persian Gulf War, US Air Force KC-135s, McDonnell Douglas KC-10As, and USMC KC-130 Hercules aircraft were deployed to forward air bases in
England ,
Diego Garcia , and
Saudi Arabia . Aircraft stationed in Saudi Arabia normally maintained an orbit in the
Iraq-Saudi Arabia neutral zone , informally known as "Frisbee", and refueled Coalition Aircraft whenever necessary. Two side by side tracks over central Saudi Arabia called "Prune" and "Raisin" featured 2-4 basket equipped KC-135 tankers each and were used by Navy aircraft from the
Red Sea Battle Force . Large Navy strike groups from the Red Sea would send A-6 tankers to the Prune and Raisin tracks ahead of the strike aircraft arriving to top off and take up station to the right of the tankers thereby providing an additional tanking point. RAF Handley Page Victor and
VC-10
tankers were also used to refuel British and coalition aircraft and were popular with the US Navy for their docile basket behavior and having three point refueling stations. An additional track was maintained close to the northwest border for the EA-3 ELINT aircraft and any Navy aircraft needing emergency fuel. These 24-hour air-refueling zones helped make the intense air campaign during Operation Desert Storm possible. An additional 24/7 tanker presence was maintained over the Red Sea itself to refuel Navy F-14 Tomcats maintaining
Combat Air Patrol
tracks. During the last week of the conflict, KC-10 tankers moved inside Iraq to support barrier CAP missions set up to block Iraqi fighters from escaping to Iran.
On January 16-17 1991, the first combat sortie of Desert Storm, and the longest combat sortie in history, at that time, was launched from
Barksdale AFB, Louisiana . Seven B-52Gs flew a thirty-five hour mission to the Persian Gulf region, and back, to launch Boeing Air Launched Cruise Missiles (ALCMs) with the surprise use of conventional warheads. All of this was made possible by in-flight refueling, and by the secret switch away from nuclear warheads on the ALCMs.
An extremely useful aerial tanker in Desert Storm was the USAF KC-10A
Extender . Besides being larger than the other tankers, the KC-10A is equipped with the USAF "boom" refueling and also the "hose-and-drogue" system. This makes it possible for the KC-10A to refuel USAF aircraft, and also USMC and US Navy jets that use the "probe-and-drogue" system, and also allied aircraft, such as those from the UK and Saudi Arabia. KC-135s may be equipped with a drogue depending on the mission profile.
The KC-10A was originally designed for the support of NATO in Europe by the USAF. In the case of armed conflict, with a full jet fuel load, the KC-10A is capable of flying from a base on the east coast of the US or Canada, flying nonstop to Europe, transferring a considerable amount of fuel in air-to-air refueling, and then returning to its home base, all without landing anywhere. This could have been very useful in the case when numerous European bases become disabled by Warsaw Pact strikes in
Germany , the
Netherlands ,
France , and
Great Britain .
Kosovo War
The
USAF
provided nearly 90 percent of the NATO tanker force, 112 active and 63 Reserve-component KC-135 and KC-10 tankers. Tankers were also provided from Britain’s
RAF
( Tristars
and
VC-10s ),
French Air Force
and
Turkish Air Force
KC-135s ,
Spanish Air Force
KC-130 Hercules
and
Royal Netherlands Air Force
KDC-10s . Although some European nations provided air-refueling aircraft, the conflict highlighted the problem Europe has with a lack of such aircraft and dependence on the United States for tanker support during a major operation. Some European nations sought to address this lack of capability, such as the
Italian Air Force
purchase of the
Boeing KC-767 , but there is still a huge difference in air-refueling capability between the US and Europe.
Aerial Rearming
In 2003 the U.S. Air Force and Far Technologies applied secretly for patents on mid-air rearming of aircraft. The technique proposed is similar in many respects to airborne refueling, with a number of notable modifications. The airborne rearming system comprises a rearming plane with an internal bomb storage area and loading device consisting of a large aft door and a modified remote-driven robotic arm (boom) equipped with a day-night camera as well as sensors. A special pylon to receive the arms from the boom is fitted onto the attack aircraft. At present financial and technological problems stand in the way of aerial rearming, mainly the need for an automatic system to perform the rearm currently under development for aerial refueling.
HIFR (Helicopter In-Flight Refueling)
Raising a hose from
ship
to an
HH-65
Hose connect and refueling of an
HH-65
A variation of aerial refueling is when a naval
helicopter
approaches a warship (not necessarily suited for landing operations) and receives fuel through the cabin while hovering.
Alternatively, some helicopters equipped with a probe extending out the front can be refueled from a drogue-equipped tanker aircraft in a similar manner to fixed-wing aircraft by matching a high forward speed for a helicopter to a slow speed for the fixed-wing tanker. Therefore a less ambiguous meaning for the abbreviation HIFR would be
HOVER
In-Flight Refueling.
The transfer of cargo while an aircraft is hovering is known within the
US Navy
and the
United States Coast Guard
as
VERTREP .
Developments
Commercial tankers are increasingly being used by military forces. The Omega Companyis contracted by the US Navy.
Autonomous (hands off) refueling using probe/drogue systems is being investigated by
NASA , potentially for use by
Unmanned aerial vehicles .
Tanker aircraft by refueling system
Boom and receiver
A
B-2 Spirit
prepares to refuel from a KC-135R
KB-29 P (No longer in service)
adapted from the
B-29 Superfortress
bomber
KC-97 Stratotanker
(No longer in service)
derived from the
C-97 Stratofreighter
KC-135 Stratotanker
related to the
Boeing 707
airliner
also used by the
French Air Force ,
Republic of Singapore Air Force
and
Turkish Air Force
boom can be fitted preflight with a drogue adapter. French Air Force KC-135 Stratotankers use the probe and drogue system
MPRS models will have two drogue hose reels (pods) at the wingtips
KC-10 Extender
adapted from the
McDonnell Douglas DC-10
airliner
also has a retractable hose and drogue that can be selected in-flight
can be fitted with two underwing pods(similar to the KC-135's MPRS) capable of simultaneously refueling two receiver aircraft (Wing Air Refueling Pods or WARPs)
Boom operator is in a rear-facing seat with a downward facing window with fly by wire controls.
The
Royal Netherlands Air Force
operates two KDC-10s - former civil aircraft modified to a similar standard to the KC-10
KC-767
adapted from the
Boeing 767
airliner
to be used by the
Italian Air Force
and
Japan Air Self Defense Force
(Entered service on March 26, 2009)
Airbus A330 MRTT
development of Airbus A330-200 airliner.
Australian
aircraft will be equipped with both a flying boom and probe-and-drogue units to accommodate both
RAAF
F-111s
as well as
F/A-18s
and will be known as KC-30B. UK aircraft will be probe-and-drogue only. The advanced refueling boom system (ARBS) places the boom operator and mission planning station in the cockpit. It includes remote controls with an enhanced 2D/3D vision system rather than a rear facing seat in the tail.
de Havilland Sea Vixens
probe-and-drogue refuelling at a 1960s
Farnborough Air Show
An Australian
Boeing 707
refueling a US Navy
F/A-18
in 2002
German
Luftwaffe
Airbus
A310 MRTT
ready for refueling, shown at the
Paris Air Show
2007
Probe and drogue
Airbus A330 MRTT
RAF
Future Strategic Tanker Aircraft , due in service around 2008.
RAAF
due in service beginning 2009.
Airbus A310 MRTT
4 for
Luftwaffe
2 for
Canadian Forces
(as
CC-150 Polaris )
Airbus A400M , future strategic transport and tanker aircraft due in service around 2009.
Avro Lancaster
(retired)
Refueled
Gloster Meteors
in 1940's
Avro Lincoln
(retired)
Refueled
Gloster Meteors
in 1940's
Avro Vulcan
(No longer in service)
specially modified for operations during the
Falklands War
Blackburn Buccaneer
(No longer in service)
Equipped for buddy tanking
Boeing 707
Used by the
Royal Australian Air Force ,
Brazilian Air Force ,
Canadian Forces Air Command ,
South African Air Force
and others
French Air Force
KC-135 Stratotankers
use the probe and drogue system.
RCAF
(later as
Canadian Forces ) used to use
CC-137 Husky
(Boeing 707's) for refueling. Both were retired in the late '90's.
KB-29 M (No longer in service)
adapted from the
B-29 Superfortress ; earlier versions used a "grappling hose" system; later models used a true probe-and-drogue.
KB-50
(No longer in service)
adapted from the
B-50 Superfortress , an improved model of the B-29 Superfortress.
HC-130 Hercules
and
KC-130 Hercules , especially in
United States Marine Corps
service as well as KC-130s in
Argentine Air Force ,
Brazilian Air Force ,
Israel Air Force ,
Republic of Singapore Air Force ,
Royal Canadian Air Force
and
Spanish Air Force
service.
variants of the
C-130 Hercules
Lockheed L-1011
Tristar
K1 and KC1 variants deployed by the
Royal Air Force
Vickers Valiant
(No longer in service)
Vickers VC-10
Handley Page Victor
(No longer in service)
KA-3B Skywarrior
(No longer in service)
Dedicated tanker variant of the Skywarrior. Primary US Navy tanker from the Vietnam War until retirement prior to Desert Storm.
A-4 Skyhawk
Equipped for buddy tanking with several nations.
KA-6D Intruder
(No longer in service)
Dedicated tanker variant of the Intruder. Attack variants of the A-6 also capable of buddy tanking
A-7 Corsair II
(No longer in US service)
Equipped for buddy tanking in US Navy and Greek service
S-3 Viking
The current primary carrier-based tanker, equipped for buddy tanking
F/A-18E/F Super Hornet
Equipped for buddy refueling as "Strike tankers". Taking over tanking duties as the S-3 is retired from service.
Ilyushin Il-78
Midas
Standard Russian tanker, adapted from
Il-76
cargo/transport aircraft
Variants of this tanker aircraft also deployed by the air forces of
Algeria ,
mainland China ,
India
and
Pakistan .
Myasishchev M-4-2
adapted from the M-4 bomber
Myasishchev 3MS-2
adapted from the 3M bomber
Tu-16N
(and Tu-16Z with wing-to-wing system)
Su-24 M
equipped for buddy refueling with the UPAZ container as "Strike tankers"
Su-33
equipped for buddy refueling
Popular culture
The film
The Starfighters
has a great deal of footage of
F-104 Starfighter
jet fighters refueling. This was extensively mocked when
The Starfighters
showed up on
Mystery Science Theater 3000
as episode #612.
The film
Dr. Strangelove
from 1964 has genuine footage of a "boom and receptacle" operation between USAF KC-135 Stratotanker and B-52 Stratofortress in turbulent air.
The film
The Perfect Storm
contains a scene where an HH-60 helicopter attempts to refuel during adverse weather, but is unable to succeed. This was based on true events that occurred during the
1991 Halloween Nor'easter .
The film
The Final Countdown
from 1980 has genuine footage of a "probe and drogue" operation between US Navy KA-6 Intruder and F-14 Tomcats from
USS  Nimitz  (CVN-68) .
The
OVA
series
Macross Zero
shows a
VF-0
variable fighter
refueling from a
KS-3
tanker aircraft, while
SV-51
variable fighters are seen using the buddy pack system.
The film
The Sum of All Fears
features a mid-air refueling sequence with the
E-4B
NEACP. In the commentary, author
Tom Clancy
mocks mid-air refueling as "sex between two planes at 35,000 feet".
The film
Air Force One
shows a
CG
sequence of a US Air Force KC-10 Extender refueling the
hijacked
Presidential aircraft, " Air Force One ", a specially converted
Boeing 747 .
In the 2005 film
Stealth
the futuristic F/A-37 Talons refuel at an automated aerial refueling station.
Media Engineers at NASA's
Dryden Flight Research Center
are evaluating the capability of an F/A-18A aircraft as an in-flight refueling tanker to develop analytical models for an automated aerial refueling system for unmanned air vehicles (UAVs)
See also
Docking maneuver
for
spacecraft
External links
Photo aerial tanking 1929
Aerial tanking history
Airborne rearming
- A comprehensive article including a video.
Aerial Refueling on APA
Official KC-30 Tanker website
Text from
Wikipedia
is available under the
Creative Commons Attribution/Share-Alike License ; additional terms may apply.
Published - July 2009
Copyright 2004-2015 © by Airports-Worldwide.com Legal Disclaimer