Eggy Space
skip to main
|
skip to sidebar
I won $1000 playing Bingo at Harrah's Reno
There were four "Best of Bingo" Tournaments at Harrah's Reno in 2012. I only went to the final one on December 1.  It was free if you belonged to the
Total Rewards
loyalty program and received an invitation. I won $1000!
I also won playing slots, so it was a fantastic weekend!
Harrah's Reno
is my favorite casino in Northern Nevada. I really like the Joy Luck Noodle Bar (on the casino floor, now open 24 hours). All of the employees at Harrah's Reno are very friendly, nice, and helpful.
Posted by
Eggy
Labels:
Harrah's ,
Reno
Road Trip Summary
Overview Map - The Dark Blue States Were Visited
My 2009 Cross-Country Road Trip included 25 states and took 28 days. Here are some of the notable places and statistics.
Trip Highlight
Visited 21 states for the first time (Added to my refrigerator magnet collection)
Low-Light #1
Food Poisoning
Low-Light #2
Bad Weather in Florida (Disney cut short)
Most Scenic Drive
CO-82 Mountains near Aspen, Colorado
Distance Driven
6787.3 Miles
Gas Cost
$645.61
Longest Day's Drive
652 Miles.
Amarillo, Texas to Forest City, Arkansas
Shortest Day's Drive
95 Miles.
Grayson, Kentucky to Lexington, Kentucky (got ill)
Free Hotel Rooms
6 Nights at Harrah's properties, Thanks to the Total Rewards Program!
Least Expensive Hotel
Rodeway Inn, Lake City, Florida.
$43.55 (including tax)
Most Expensive Hotel
Ramada Limited, Green River, Utah $84.71 (including tax)
Total Hotel Cost
$1182.47 (22 nights, plus 6 free)
Average Hotel Cost
$53.75 per night ($42.23 if including free room nights in the denominator)
Highest Elevation
12,095 feet.
Independence Pass, Colorado
Best Free Souvenir #1
I Survived Highway 50 Certificate (The Loneliest Road in America)
Best Free Souvenir #2
Free Disney Buttons
Free Tour #1
Tabasco Factory (okay, it costs $1 toll to cross the 'bridge')
Free Tour #2
NPS Mississippi Riverfront Walking Tour (from the French Quarter)
Biggest Regret
Not making a U-Turn to go the Woody Creek Tavern
Best Cultural Art
Cadillac Ranch, Amarillo, Texas
Most Interesting City
New Orleans
Best College Town
Lawrence, Kansas
Best Meal
Lunch at Commander's Palace, New Orleans
Least Time in a State
Ohio:
About 17 minutes in Chesapeake
Favorite Road Snacks
Banana Chips and Punjabi Mix (Tasty, but a bit prone to spilling)
Best Investment
Garmin Nuvi 260W GPS Unit (I am now a GPS believer!)
Most Played CD
Chronicle by Creedence Clearwater Revival
Preparation Mistake #1
Not checking the CD's in my changer before leaving home
Preparation Mistake #2
Not bringing Chinese Medicine (for Food Poisoning)
Most Amazing
The History of Mike the Headless Chicken
Most States in a Day
5 States in a Day: NC, VA, WV, OH, KY
Best $1 Spent
Tour of Genoa (Colorado) Wonder Tower
See all of the Road Trip postings
(with a minimum of page breaks).
Or, for postings by state, click on an underlined state in the table below:
Alabama
Alaska
Arizona
Arkansas
California
Colorado
Connecticut
Delaware
Dist. Of Columbia
Florida
Georgia
Guam
Hawaii
Idaho
Illinois
Indiana
Iowa
Kansas
Kentucky
Louisiana
Maine
Maryland
Massachusetts
Michigan
Minnesota
Mississippi
Missouri
Montana
Nebraska
Nevada
New Hampshire
New Jersey
New Mexico
New York
North Carolina
North Dakota
Ohio
Oklahoma
Oregon
Pennsylvania
Puerto Rico
Rhode Island
South Carolina
South Dakota
Tennessee
Texas
Utah
Vermont
Virgin Islands
Virginia
Washington
West Virginia
Wisconsin
Wyoming
It was a good trip, but it would have been better if:
I had more time, I did not get food poisoning, I had better luck with the weather (particularly in Florida).
Posted by
Eggy
Labels:
Road Trip
Road Trip Day 28 - Home! Sweet Home!
I woke up about 8am feeling like maybe I had one Strawberry
Daiquiri
too many, but hey, they were free!
I slowly got ready to leave.
I checked out, took my things to the car.
Then at the 11am opening time, I made one last trip to the Lucky Noodle Bar.
This time, I got an order of Beef Stew
Noodle (五香牛腩湯河粉)
to eat there, and an order of
Beef Chow Fun
(干炒牛河) as take-away.
They charge $1 per dish for
take-away
orders, but they package them very well and they don't leak.
I leave
Harrah's Reno
about noon.
I had a great time, ate well, and won money! It only takes about 20 minutes to hit the
Nevada - California
border.
I decided to stop and visit some friends at a small town in
Nevada County
, California, before
heading home.
This concludes my Road Trip.
I stuck fairly close to my
initial planned route and schedule .
I had some good times, and some
not so good times .
I will need to give it some thought, and write up what I might have learned from the experience.
Posted by
Eggy
Labels:
CA ,
Casino ,
NV ,
Road Trip
Road Trip Day 27 - Harrah's Reno, Buffet and Noodles
Warning:
I got carried away in this posting talking about the food at Harrah's, Reno. If you don't care about food, you might want to skip over this post.
Last night, I ate my Chinese Beef Stew Rice Noodle Soup (五香牛腩湯河粉) at the
Joy Luck Noodle Bar
at Harrah's Reno. It is a simple dish, but I really like it.
The Noodle Bar has other interesting things like Pad Thai (泰式雞蝦炒粉), Beef Chow Fun with Black Bean Sauce (豉椒炒牛河), Lemon Grass Marinated Pork Chops (香茅豬扒燴米粉), Stir Fried Curry Rice Vermicelli with Shrimp & BBQ Pork (星洲炒米粉), and Wor Won Ton Egg Noodle Soup (鍋雲吞湯麵).
Then I played the slot machines until a little past midnight and did quite well (I have put some money 'in my pocket' and am certain to go home a net winner).
This morning, after a relaxing shower in my large clean bathroom, I went downstairs to brunch. On Saturday and Sunday,
Harrahs Reno's Carvings Buffet
has a Champagne Brunch from 8am to 2pm. While it might not be quite as fancy as some of the much more expensive Champagne Brunches in Las Vegas, it is very good and is only $12.99.
I paid with
Total Rewards
points so it was free. The buffet has a:
Italian Station - Brick oven pizza, grilled vegetables, pastas
Salad Bar -
Build your own (or they will build special ones for you), peel and eat shrimp, mussels, Jack Daniel's Chili, and soup
Carving Station - Prime Rib, Turkey, Ham,
Keilbasa
Mexican Station - Fish, thin New York Steaks with
Chipotle
Butter, Enchiladas, Rice, Beans, warm Tortillas, Guacamole, and Salsas
Asian Station - Pan Fried Noodles, Pot Stickers, BBQ Pork, and Noodles-To-Order (Beef Stew Rice Noodle Soup again, for me!)
The American Station -
Eggs Benedict , Mashed Potatoes, Bacon, Sausage, Scrambled Eggs, Hash Browns,
Chicken Fried Steak , Baked Beans, Chicken, Gravy, Corn
Dessert
Corner - Pie, Cake, soft Ice Cream, Fresh Fruit
Crêpes , Cookies,
Cheesecake
(they virtually always have it in some form, ask if you don't see it)
I am not a big champagne drinker, but I had a couple of weak
Mimosas
(to which I added
Grenadine Syrup
that I carry in a small bottle for just such occasions).
I ran into my 'Casino Friend', Sally, who likes playing the same bank of slot machines that I do.
It was really a coincidence that she was here at the same time, because we both only go to Reno, NV about 3 or 4 times a year. Sorry, I can't tell what our favorite games are!
I ate at the
Joy Luck Noodle Bar
again about 7:30pm, this time having Seafood
Fried Fun Hor (干炒河) just to be flexible.
The Noodle Bar is fast, cheap, and they are very accommodating about adjusting ingredients to your personal taste.
I gambled until about 2am, and had a good time.
Posted by
Eggy
Labels:
Casino ,
Harrah's ,
NV ,
Road Trip
Road Trip Day 26 - Nevada - US Highway 50 - The Loneliest Road in America
I had breakfast in Ely's
Hotel Nevada and Gambling Hall
24 hour restaurant. The food (at breakfast and dinner last night) was good , reasonably priced, and service was very friendly and attentive.
Two unique things worth mentioning about Ely, Nevada:
There is an operating steam train and railway museum -
The Nevada Northern Railway Museum
(these are a real hit with train buffs and kids),
There are numerous
interesting murals
around town.
I had seen posters for "Highway 50 Survival Guides" in some of the local businesses. I picked up one of the passport sized Survival Guides near the hotel registration desk.
The Survival Guides are part of a
"Loneliest Road in America" promotion . The
Loneliest Road moniker
was coined by
Life Magazine
in a (not completely complimentary) article written about Highway 50 and rural Nevada in July 1986.
The State of Nevada subsequently adopted "The Loneliest Road in America" as an official designation for part of US-50.
The Highway 50 Survival Kit promotion involves taking your passport for validation at any of various locations in five different towns along "The Loneliest Road":
Fernley Fallon Austin Eureka Ely
If you get all five validation stamps, you can send in a postage-paid card and receive a "I Survived Hwy 50" certificate and a commemorative souvenir.
You can pick up your Survival Guide at certain locations on the Loneliest Road:
At the east end at the
Hotel Nevada and Gambling Hall , Convention Center, Chamber of Commerce, and other places.
At the west end at the
Fernley Chamber of Commerce
(if it is open),
and sometimes at the
Wigwam Restaurant
and
Museum
where the original
Moe is Back . If you are planning a trip in advance, it would probably be safest to
request a Survival Guide online . If you going spur of the moment, you can download
a PDF of the Survival Guide
(without Validation page, but you could probably have any piece of paper stamped and send it in for your certificate).
I had traveled the Loneliest Road before, but getting the passport stamped added a fun
scavenger hunt
dynamic to the trip. It also made me have more contact with local people and places.
The Survival Guide has useful and interesting information about each town and is like a mini tour book.
Depending on their interests people will have different favorite sights along the Loneliest Road.
I think that almost everybody will find
Sand Mountain
impressive and the old
Shoe Tree
very interesting (you might regret if you don't bring a pair of shoes to contribute).
I like this Shoe Tree, 48 miles east of Fallon even more than
the Shoe Tree near Milltown, Indiana .
Trip Advice for Northern Californians:
It is about 280 miles from Fernley, NV to Ely, NV.
A good 3 night trip from the
San Francisco Bay Area
is to spend a night in
Lake Tahoe
or
Reno , then go to Ely (and spend the night at The Hotel Nevada), then return spending the night in either Reno or Tahoe.
By the time that I reach
Reno , I am within 4 hours of home, but I am going to spend two nights at
Harrah's
because I am craving my favorite noodles at the relatively new
Joy Luck Noodle Bar
(which replaced the Lucky Noodle Bar and is even better).
I am also looking forward to sleeping in a spotless room with comfortable bed and lots of pillows (and I will gamble a bit, too).
It is Saturday night and they only had standard rooms available when I called my
Casino Host
two days ago. However, this room is definitely the
Ritz
compared to some places I have stayed in the past month!
Posted by
Eggy
Labels:
Casino ,
Harrah's ,
NV ,
Road Trip
Road Trip Day 25 - Desert Solitude, sort of
The breakfast at the Ramada Limited in
Green River, Utah
was lousy. I arrived for breakfast at 8:25am and there were 3 waffles, some bread, no fruit, no yogurt, 3 cold eggs without shells sitting uncovered, some rock hard bulk donuts, and cheap flimsy paper plates. Wow, my most expensive room in 3 weeks and such a lousy breakfast! I do have to admit, the hotel did have good pillows.
I left Green River about 10am heading west on
I-70 . Stopped several places to enjoy the beautiful view and geological features of
San Rafael Swell .
After a couple of hours, I reached
Salina, Utah , and found its best known attraction, an old statue of
Ute Chief Blackhawk
which is sometimes misidentified as
Milkshake Man .
Other than the statue, Salina is known for a
1945 massacre of German POWs .
I am heading to Ely, Nevada, and my GPS unit seems like it wants to route me west on
Utah SR-161
(to
Utah SR-257
to US-50). Fortunately, an employee at a Chevron Station in
Cove Fort, Utah
convinces me not to go that way since "It is a dirt road, and not good at all".
I subsequently confirmed this with satellite images.
Unfortunately, I was unaware of the
fort in Cove Fort, which offers daily free tours .
I headed north on
I-15 . It is interesting to see speed limit 80 MPH signs. It was raining and there was road work going on, so the actual 80 mile an hour drive was rather short lived.
I left I-15 heading west on a boring Utah portion of US-50 for about 2 hours until I hit the
Nevada border .
It takes about an hour to reach
Ely, Nevada
from the Utah-Nevada border on
US-50
(which becomes less flat and more interesting). I drove by the
Bristlecone Motel
(which was the
#1 rated motel in Ely according to Tripadvisor.com ) but there was No Vacancy. Actually, I should mention that I found
Tripadvisor.com
very useful during my road trip for its ordinal ranking of hotels (and motels) within a city. The number two rated hotel in Ely,
The Hotel Nevada (and Gambling Hall ), did have rooms available (and was less than $45 including tax, breakfast not included).
The
Nevada Hotel and Gambling Hall
is a very unique place. The 6 story building was
built in 1929
and is full of
memorabilia, curios, and old photos . My room on the fourth floor was large and the WiFi reception was great. The bed was a little soft for my taste. The bathroom was very small and had several signs warning about water pressure (but it worked great for me). The employees in the hotel, from desk clerk to waitress to bartender, were all very friendly and customer focused. The casino is comprised of
slot machines on the ground floor, and a fairly small card room
in the basement.
At registration, I was given a coupon for a free
Margarita
at the casino bar, and a beer across the street at The Liberty Club.
There was a 24 hour
Happy Hour with 99 cent Margaritas and $1 beers .
The Hotel Nevada
would be a great place for motorcycle riders or car clubs to visit. Actually, there were some guys there from some type of Corvette Club. The hotel and casino are fun and Highway 50 west of Ely is a great uncrowded road.
Posted by
Eggy
Labels:
Casino ,
NV ,
Road Trip ,
UT
Road Trip Day 24 - Colorado: Aspen and Mike the Headless Chicken
Checked out of the Rodeway Inn in Colorado Springs about 8am.
While I was originally planning to take
US-50
through
Canon City ,
Gunnison , and
Montrose
to
Grand Junction , I changed my mind and am going to
Glenwood Springs
via
Aspen .
Again, I am glad to have my GPS unit as it helps me navigate out of Colorado Springs on
US-24 .
I stop for gas in
Woodland Park, Colorado , which has sort of a
Lake Tahoe
feel to it (sans lake).
The scenery is nice.
After about three hours on the road ( US-24 ) I branch onto
CO-82 , it is quite narrow and steep in places and really not the type of road that I enjoy ( your mileage may vary ). Eventually I reached the summit at
Independence Pass
on the
Continental Divide . I was happy to have a parking lot to stop at and a trail to stretch my legs. There was really a fairly big crowd of people (about 20 or so) stopped there.
Somebody helped me take the obligatory Continental Divide photo so I could have symmetry with
my one taken three weeks ago in New Mexico .
It took about 45 minutes to drive the 20 miles from Independence Pass to
Aspen
and I arrived about 12:30.
Aspen is a pretty and clean town, but there did not seem to be much happening. I walked around - there are nice houses and bike trail / walking areas.
I did not go into any of the fancy boutiques or galleries. Hardly anybody seemed to be around except for gardeners, painters, and maintenance people - I guess all the action is in the winter. I had a difficult time finding a restaurant which was open for lunch and ended up at
Tasters , a sandwich and pizza place (my Italian Sandwich was quite good).
I headed out of town on
CO-82
northwest towards
Glenwood Springs
at about 2:30pm. I missed the turn-off to
Woody Creek .
I subsequently felt guilty about not paying
homage
to
Hunter S. Thompson
at the
Woody Creek Tavern . After a bit more than an hour, I reached Glenwood Springs, and got on
I-70
going west.
I stopped at a rest area in
Rifle, Colorado
for a soft drink and a quick nap.
At about 6:30pm, I arrived in
Fruita, Colorado
(just west of
Grand Junction ), in search of " Mike the Headless Chicken ". Actually, I had put "Mike the Headless Chicken" in my GPS about a month earlier, and had forgotten exactly what he was. After my GPS indicated that I had passed him, I parked the car and walked around until I found him.
Actually, the "Mike" here,
is a metal sculpture
dedicated to the memory of a rooster who lived in Fruita (in the 1940's) without his head for 18 months. It is an
inspiring story of a simple Western Colorado chicken , who through a twist of fate survives his beheading and becomes famous and traveled throughout the United States as an entertainer. Unfortunately, Mike met his demise in March of 1947 in a motel room in Phoenix, Arizona.
The city of
Fruita, Colorado has an annual festival
to celebrate the life and spirit of
Mike the Headless Chicken .
I would encourage you to Google "Mike the Headless Chicken",
or click here .
Just across the overpass over I-70 is the
Western Slope Vietnam War Memorial .
This interesting tribute is open 24 hours, 365 days, has a
'Huey' helicopter , and
Rolling Stone Music .
Crossed the
border
into
Utah
about 7pm.
A
Filipina
and her American boyfriend from
Los Angeles
also were there taking a photo.
Arrived in
Green River, Utah
about 8pm. Went to several hotels, they were either full or
price gouging . Finally, I checked into a room at
Ramada Inn Limited
($84 including tax) - the most expensive room on my road trip (and certainly not the nicest).
I could not maintain a
Wi-Fi
connection from my room, so I sat in the lobby doing email for about an hour.
Avoid Green River, Colorado if you are looking for a bargain motel room.
Posted by
Eggy
Labels:
CO ,
Road Trip ,
UT
Road Trip Day 23 - Eat on a Plane!
Colorado Springs
I left the
Genoa Wonder View Tower
at about 5:30pm.
I am afraid that I made
Jerry Chubbuck
late for dinner, but he insisted that I could take my time.
Finding Interesting Attractions on a Road Trip:
I have used
Roadsideamerica.com 's
map tool
(see
Colorado State example ) a lot to help find interesting places near my
Road Trip route .
Not only did I learn about the
Wonder View Tower
here, but also my next stop:
The Airplane Restaurant .
In addition to finding the attractions on the Roadsideamerica maps, you can also organize and save them to ' My Sights ',
then subsequently load them as
Points of Interest
(POI's) to your GPS unit.
I found it very easy to load these custom POI's to my
Garmin Nuvi 260W
using
Garmin's free POI Loader software .
The Airplane Restaurant
is near the
Colorado Springs
Municipal Airport
and one of its unique features is that you can 'Eat in a Plane' (a real plane!).
If you have a larger group, prefer more openness, or suffer from
aerophobia , you can 'Dine in the Airport Terminal'.
The restaurant is full of interesting
aviation memorabilia .
The restaurant staff wear
flight crew uniforms , and there are aircraft related sounds in some unexpected places in the restaurant (don't miss the
restrooms ). You can even take turns flying the plane (Note: Don't worry, I
Photoshopped
in the sky and clouds in the picture below).
The
aviation themed
menu
offers a variety of
soups ,
sandwiches , and
entrees .
I opted for the
French Onion Soup
and
Blackened
Ahi Tuna
over
Cajun Rice
with
Chipotle
Citrus Butter
(served with
sauteed vegetables ).
The
Ahi
was very good.
The Airplane Restaurant serves
beer ,
wine , and has a full
bar
(including
some aviation theme specialty drinks , of course).
The Airplane Restaurant was
previously known as Solo's Restaurant
(their URL is still
http://www.solosrestaurant.com/
and the name in the website has not been updated as of May 2009).
I was there about 7:30pm on a Wednesday evening and the larger tables in the plane were full, but there were seats available at the small tables and in the terminal.
The Airplane Restaurant (719-570-7656) is at 1665 N. Newport Road (one block east of Powers on Fountain Blvd) and next to the
Radisson
Inn and Suites Colorado Springs .
Open for Lunch and Dinner (Monday to Saturday 11am-9pm and Sunday Noon-8pm).
Just watch for the plane, you can't miss it.
If you are in the
Colorado Springs
area and want an interesting experience (especially if you have any
young aviators
in your family), you should visit the
Airplane Restaurant .
After dinner, I found an inexpensive ($43.75 using a hotel coupon) room at the
Rodeway Inn
in
Colorado Springs . The room was in a strange location on the back of the building.
I used the decent strength
Wi-Fi , did some
hand wash
in the sink, and went to bed by
midnight .
Posted by
Eggy
Labels:
CO ,
Road Trip
Road Trip Day 23 - Genoa Wonder View Tower, Colorado
It was raining when I checked out of my hotel in
Salina ,
Kansas , at about 10am. Headed west on
I-70 . Unless you like
silos
and
flat land
there does not seem to be much to see in
Western Kansas
or
Eastern Colorado .
Took a brief nap in a rest area near
Colby ,
Kansas , and passed into
Colorado
about 3:15pm.
About 78 miles west of the
Colorado-Kansas border
is an amazing attraction which I was unaware of until researching for my trip.
The
Wonder View Tower , in
Genoa ,
Colorado , was built as a
roadhouse
and
tourist attraction
in 1926 and was the tallest building between
California
and the
Mississippi River
at that time.
According to the
Denver Post , the current owners,
Jerry and Esther Chubbuck
have owned the tower for more than 40 years.
Jerry Chubbuck seems to be part
Archaeologist ,
historian ,
satirist , and entertainer.
The one dollar admission to the
tower
and
museum
was my best entertainment value during my trip.
The museum contains more than 20,000
Indian artifacts , many of them
arrowheads
found by Chubbuck himself. Jerry will be more than happy to tell you about his famous discovery of a 8,000 year old
'Bison Kill Site' .
Jerry offers to refund the admission fee if you can correctly guess the identity of ten of his special museum pieces while playing a game called 'Guess What' (which he seems to enjoy as much as you do).
The Tower itself has 87 steps, in some places is quite narrow, and is probably not appropriate for people with
claustrophobia
or
acrophobia . The postcards claim that the ability to see six states was "proved by
Ripley ".
The states are
Colorado ,
Kansas ,
Nebraska ,
New Mexico ,
South Dakota , and
Wyoming .
Amazing treasures are in each of the 20 rooms! Many of the items are for sale (especially
antique bottles ,
rocks ,
dinosaur bones , and
meat grinders ). If you can't find it here, you don't need it (maybe I got that backwards). The
oddities , such as
two headed calf , and
eight legged pig
embryo
must be popular with children.
Also known as the
Genoa Tower
to people in the area, the Genoa Wonder View Tower and Museum are located on the north side of I-70 on the frontage road at the west end of Genoa.
March to September: 8am - 8 pm (Call to confirm).
Other months by appointment. Call 719-763-2309
The Wonder View Tower in Genoa, Colorado is definitely worth a visit!
View Larger Map
Posted by
Eggy
Labels:
CO ,
Genoa Wonder View Tower ,
KS ,
Road Trip
Road Trip Day 22 - Lawrence, Kansas: 1968 Pennies
Was woken up by
housekeeper
at 8:50 (I was not happy)! The hotel breakfast was quite good. Checked out at 10:30 and started driving west on
I-70
from
Columbia ,
Missouri . Stopped at a
Stuckey's
/
BP
Station for gas and bought some
state refrigerator magnets
that I needed (Note: It is against the rules to buy the magnet before you get to the state; if you could, then why even go on the trip?).
Crossed the border from
Kansas City, Missouri
to
Kansas City, Kansas .
Debated having some
Kansas City Barbecue . The following were recommendations from some friends at
Chow.com :
Fiorella's Jack Stack Barbecue Oklahoma Joe's BBQ LC's Bar-B-Q
( Burnt Ends )
Arthur Bryant's Gates Bar-B-Q
I wasn't ready to eat so I continued on
I-70 , which turns into the
Kansas Turnpike .
I was also getting anxious to get to one of the
three primary destinations
for my trip:
The
world's largest collection of 1968 pennies
in
Lawrence ,
Kansas .
Lawrence is only about 50 minutes from the
Missouri - Kansas border .
I stopped at the
Lawrence Visitor's Center
(in the
restored
Union Pacific Depot ).
There were two very helpful people at the visitor's center, but surprisingly, they were unaware of the
famous penny collection
about exactly one mile away.
They seemed somewhat amused, but a little confused, when I explained my long
pilgrimage
to visit the
pennies .
Lawrence, Kansas is an interesting city. It is very much of a college town being home to the
University of Kansas
and
Haskell Indian Nations University .
Downtown Lawrence feels somewhat like how I imagine that
Berkeley
or
San Francisco
would have felt in the late 1960's. The good weather had apparently lured many people into the streets. There were many students,
people playing guitars on the sidewalk, and colorful people walking around.
I easily found street parking near ' Beyond the Door ' at 918 Massachusetts Street.
Beyond the Door is a
Hippie
Shop (not a
Head shop ).
The shop has a lot of interesting
vintage clothing ,
tie-dye
and
Grateful Dead
T-Shirts , inexpensive jewelry,
posters , etc.
I bought some unique
earrings .
Beyond the Door
also hosts the public display of the
world's largest collection of 1968 pennies .
I met Gregor Brune, a lifelong Lawrence resident and curator of the collection.
Gregor is friendly, articulate, and apparently 'consumed by all things 1968'.
A recent ' American Profile '
article gives some
history about Gregor Brune and the 1968 penny collection .
I had brought some 1968 pennies for the collection, and am now one of the
largest contributors .
Gregor and I had a very good lunch (I had Chicken and
Crawfish
Gumbo ) at the
Free State Brewing Company .
When it opened in 1989,
Free State
was the first legal brewery in Kansas in over 100 years.
After lunch, I got back on the I-70 Kansas Turnpike and headed west.
I was like a
moth towards a candle
when I was lured by the signs of the ' OZ Museum ' 9 miles off I-70 to
Wamego , Kansas.
Unfortunately, I arrived there a few minutes after the 5 pm closing time (I should have called on my cell phone to save time and gas).
I was, however, able to see some
Ruby Slippers
in the window.
It took about 1.5 hours to drive from Wamego to
Salina, Kansas
where I spent the night at an inexpensive motel.
Posted by
Eggy
Labels:
KS ,
MO ,
Road Trip
Road Trip Day 21 - St Louis Gateway Arch and Casino
The
Chrysanthemum Tea ,
young coconut water , sleep, and
Advil
seemed to improve my
muscle aches
and
body temperature .
The hotel breakfast at the
Holiday Inn Express (Evansville Indiana)
was much better than most of the
breakfasts
so far on my trip - there were
scrambled eggs ,
breakfast sausage ,
some type of meat patties , warm
whole eggs ,
waffles ,
good coffee ,
apple juice ,
orange juice
and some
take-away
fruit. I had thought about spending two days here to try and restore my health, but was feeling so much better that I decided to move on. Checked out about 11am, went to a nearby
Buehler's Buy Low
grocery store to buy some
canned drinks
and
Advil .
Drove west on
I-64 , crossing into
Illinois
about 1pm.
Made it to
Missouri
about 3:30pm. It was raining very hard in
St Louis
as I neared the
Gateway Arch . The
parking lot
for the arch was $6, and since I was not going to be getting out and walking in the rain, I just drove by, and then continued west on
I-70 .
After about 25 minutes, the rain had stopped and I saw a sign for
Harrah's Casino .
Harrahs St Louis
is near the
Missouri River , about 3 miles off of
I-70
in
Maryland Heights , a western suburb of St Louis. The Harrah's complex is clean, new, and attractive.
To enter the casino, you evidently need a
Total Rewards
card, or a readily available free guest pass. I had a free
carbonated drink
in the
casino , and had plans to eat some
noodles
(and was hoping they had a restaurant similar to the
Joy Luck Noodle Bar
in
Harrah's Reno ). Unfortunately they don't serve
noodles
in St Louis on
Monday . Anyway, it was nice to see the
casino
and stretch my legs.
I drove west on I-70 for another hour and a half, and stopped at the
Comfort Inn
in
Columbia, Missouri .
When asked about noodles, the young desk clerk recommended his 'favorite restaurant', the ' Great Wall Chinese Buffet '. My $12 dinner really filled my noodle void - they had a good selection and the staff was friendly.
Posted by
Eggy
Labels:
Casino ,
Harrah's ,
IL ,
IN ,
MO ,
Road Trip
Older Posts
Home
Subscribe to:
Posts (Atom)
Eggy's Popular Posts
Pineapple Rice Recipe - Part 1
Pineapple Rice Recipe - Part 2
How to Make a Pineapple Boat
Steamboat is like Chinese Fondue
My Reviews at SharedReviews.Com
Vintage Bugis Street Girls
Three Cups of Tea - An Amazing Story
About Me
I am Eggy. Actually, that is not my birth name or my legal name, but one time my actual name was not available when I was registering at a website so I started using Eggy. It is actually useful having a separate name in cyberspace, because when one of my friends refers to Eggy, I know they are referring to my internet incarnation.
I am a Singaporean who is now living in Northern California.
I hope to use this blog to share some of my recipes, thoughts, and whatever comes along. Cooking is one of my passions. I enjoy experimenting and trying different types of cooking. I won first prize in a Thai cooking competition a few years ago in Singapore. My recipes cover a pretty broad range (Chinese, Indian, Thai, Malay, Western, Fusion). Many of my recipes are spicy. I live to eat, not eat to live.
Contact Me
About Me
View my complete profile