Tequila
Home ► Other ► Alcohol ► Tequila
If you choose to enter the world of Tequila, this just might happen to you someday
???????
There are two things you need to know about Tequila that have nothing to do with Tequila!!
The first lesson is about drinking any spirit which is 80 Proof, which will be 40% alcohol.
Your stomach gives the impression to the brain that it is "full" when a certain "Volume" has been reached, and as such, you stop putting whatever it is in your mouth.
This "Volume" could be with a food, such as eating a chicken.
When you're done eating a chicken, you're full, and you stop.
Or this "Volume" could be with a liquid.
You drink a liter of Coke, you're full, and you stop.
But with a spirit, especially at the 40% alcohol mark, this "Full" effect must be addressed.
If you drink beer (at the 6% alcohol mark), you may get a small "Full" sensation, which will help you stop.
Wine at 15%, will give less of a "Full" effect.
But any 40% alcohol will give next to no "stop response" because you never are "Full".
Because 99.999% of what goes into your mouth is assessed by the brain in volume, this makes a lot of people drink much more than they should when drinking any 40% alcohol content spirit.
When drinking spirits at the 40% mark, you have to go by "Numbers" and not "Volume".
When you find your number (2,4,6,etc.) you better stop, although you won't ever feel "Full".
Over drinking of any 40% spirit will give you the sensation that part of your brain has been damaged and/or torn from your head if you drink "One Too Many"!!!
Now we can talk "Tequila"!!!
TEQUILA
is a Mexican spirit made from the
Agave
plant.
Tequila is known for the most outlandish parties and worst hangovers.
Numerous "Drinking Games" are associated with Tequila, such as "Lick, Shot, Lime".
Are the hangovers from Tequila due to excessive drinking by people to don't drink responsibly?
Or is there a "Hallucinogenic" effect included in the Agave, much like with mushrooms?
You decide.
As always, just don't drink more Tequila than your number.
The most important thing to know about Tequila is there are two types;
1) The first type of Tequila is known as "Mixtos".
The "Mixtos" alcohol content must come from no less than 51% Agave, with other sugars making up the remaining alcohol. "Mixtos" use both fructose and/or glucose sugars (corn/wheat). "Mixtos" will say something like "Made
from
Agave" or "Made
with
Pure Agave", but it won't say "100% Agave".
Even though there may be a mixtos Tequila at 95% agave, the "Agave" alcohol percentage is not usually written anywhere on the bottle.
As such, there is no way to know what a good "Mixtos" bottle of Tequila is.
2) The second type of Tequila is 100% Agave distilled.
The 100% Agave distilled Tequila will say "100% Agave" somewhere on the bottle.
The major flavor distinction with 100% Agave Tequila is the base ingredient (the Agave plant), which is more vegetal in flavor than grain spirits (and often more complex).
This is the preferred (only) type of Tequila to drink.
The "100% Agave Tequila" is usually bottled in three main categories:
1) Blanco ("white") or Plata ("silver"): white spirit, un-aged and bottled or stored immediately after distillation, or aged less than two months in stainless steel or neutral oak barrels;
2) Reposado ("rested"): aged a minimum of two months, but less than a year in oak barrels of any size;
3) Añejo ("aged" or "vintage"): aged a minimum of one year, but less than three years in small oak barrels
But there are five categories that are recognized;
1) Blanco ("white") or Plata ("silver"): white spirit, un-aged and bottled or stored immediately after distillation, or aged less than two months in stainless steel or neutral oak barrels;
2) Joven ("young") or Oro ("gold"): a mixture of Blanco Tequila and Reposado Tequila.
3) Reposado ("rested"): aged a minimum of two months, but less than a year in oak barrels of any size;
4) Añejo ("aged" or "vintage"): aged a minimum of one year, but less than three years in small oak barrels
5) Extra Añejo ("extra aged" or "ultra aged"): aged a minimum of three years in oak barrels. This category was established in March 2006.
The ways to drink Tequila (or any Liquor) depends on two things, your tongue and the cost.
The first, and best way to drink any spirit, is all by itself.
Then you get only the flavor of the spirit with no "tag along" flavors.
With any spirit including Tequila, this is know as drinking it
"Neat" .
Using any glass to drink Tequila will do, but if you want add an air of sophistication and class, in 2002 the "Consejo Regulador del Tequila" (Tequila Regulatory Council) approved an "Official Tequila Glass" called the "Ouverture Tequila Glass", made by
Riedel .
In relationship to taste, alcohol will cause a "burning" sensation to the tongue.
The more alcohol, the more the sensation.
But, Tequila is no higher in alcohol than other "Main Stream" spirits, with an alcohol content at the 40% mark.
But like many other spirits at the 40% alcohol mark, the alcohol level may be too high for many palettes and will need to be diluted.
If you just can't handle the taste and need to dilute the Tequila, the main drink known to use Tequila is the
Margarita .
There are numerous
recipes
for Margaritas.
Tequila is also very expensive, 2 to 10 times more than "other" spirits at the 40% alcohol content mark.
At this point, the second lesson to learn that has nothing to do with Tequila is "Where in the cost tree does Tequila fall?"
I have what I call the "Four Standards of Comparison" all in the 1.75 L bottle, and all at the 40% alcohol content mark (prices at time of publishing and may include sale prices).
#1 Black Velvet = $14.00
Black Velvet is a Canadian Blended Whiskey. Black Velvet in my opinion is the best spirit on the planet when considering flavor & cost.
#2 Jack Daniels Black = $32.00
Jack Daniel's is a brand of sour mash Tennessee whiskey that is among the world's best-selling liquors. It is known for its square bottles and black label. As of November 2007, it was reportedly the best-selling whiskey in the world.
#3 Crown Royal = $40.00
Crown Royal is also a blended Canadian whisky. It is the top-selling Canadian whisky in the United States.
#4 Grand Marnier = $75.00
Grand Marnier is a liqueur created in 1880 by Alexandre Marnier-Lapostolle. It is made from a blend of true cognacs and distilled essence of bitter orange. It is produced in several varieties, most of which can be consumed "neat" as a digestif and can be used in mixed drinks and desserts.
Everything that I buy I put "Apples to Apples and Oranges to Oranges."
Meaning I price everything to the 1.75 L price per bottle.
Usually, the 1.75 L bottle will be the best value, but not always.
For example, at the time of publishing this page, Patron Silver Tequila prices were;
375ml = $26.99 ÷ 375 = .0719733 x 1750 = $125.95 in relation to a 1.75 L bottle
750ml = $45.99 ÷ 750 = .06132 x 1750 = $107.31 in relation to a 1.75 L bottle
1.75 L = $99.99 = "This is the cheapest way to buy Patron Silver Normally"
But the 375ml bottle was on sale at a locale retailer for
$14.98
÷ 375 = .0399466 X 1750 = $69.90 in relation to a 1.75 L bottle (the 375ml on sale was a better value than the 1.75L at normal price)
Sometimes the smaller sized bottles on sale end up cheaper than the 1.75 L bottle at regular price.
You just have to be a good shopper and divide everything out for each size bottle and re-multiple up to the 1750 ml volume (or 1.75 L).
Also, in a 1.75 L bottle there are 60 1oz shots.
So Black Velvet at $14.00 ÷ 60 = .2333 cents per drink.
And because (At least as far as the alcohol effect goes);
1 shot of 40% alcohol (1 oz) = 1 glass of wine (8 oz) = 1 beer (12 oz)
You can also see where some of the "Popular" other drinks fall in the "Four Standards of Comparison"!!!
Beer @ $6.00 for 6 pack = $1.00 x 60 = $60.00 in relation to a 1.75 L bottle of a 40% alcohol spirit.
(Four as much as Black Velvet)
Wine @ $10.00 for 750 L bottle = $2.00 x 60 = $120.00 in relation to a 1.75 L bottle of a 40% alcohol spirit.(Three times as much as Crown Royal)
Wine @ $50.00 for 750 L bottle = $10.00 x 60 = $600.00 in relation to a 1.75 L bottle of a 40% alcohol spirit.(Eight times as much as Grand Marnier)
Something to think about!!!!
You may want to "Shoot" Tequila, but why would you not want to "Savor" a $100.00+ bottle of Tequila by drinking it "Neat" using a volume equal to your pinky or ring finger at the start of the nail to the tip of the finger?
So the solution, pour a shot, and sip very small amounts, very slowly.
The only reason to "Shoot" Tequila is if you are using gut rot Mixtos and you want to get past the taste.
Or you want to get drunk really, really fast.
If you want to get past the taste, drink the 100% Agave Tequila instead.
If you want to get drunk really fast, you may prefer to do this
??????
instead.
But he obviously was
??????
two hours later!!!!
All the Tequilas are 40% alcohol except the one 1800 which is 50% (Which is in Red).
All prices are adjusted to the 1.75L bottle size, even if it is not sold in the 1.75L bottle size.
I break down everything I drink into 4 categories which are defined by my buget (which can change over time).
Meaning the drinks may change in each catagory over time as well;
1) Daily
2) Weekly
3) Monthly
4) Yearly
Daily Tequila
1800 TEQUILA
The
1800 Tequila
is owned by the Beckmann Family, who also owns the Jose Cuervo brand, even though it is marketed separately from the Cuervo line of Tequila. 1800 is produced at Cuervo's secondary factory "Los Camachines" along with the other Jose Cuervo 100% agave line of "Gran Centenario." Though neither of these labels are officially considered part of the Cuervo line, they are both produced at NOM 1122, which is completely controlled by Cuervo. The older US version of 1800 did have a faux wax stamp of the Cuervo seal applied to the bottle, and this product is/was quite commonly referred to as "Cuervo 1800". Later bottles of 1800 employed a different seal, with absolutely no mention of any ties to Cuervo.
It's noteworthy, that currently 1800 Tequila has 5 basic varieties, and they are all 100% Agave.
1)
1800 Silver
($49.99)
Mellowed in American Oak barrels for 15 days and blended with a touch of aged reserves.
Color
Pale yellow diamond
Aroma
Agave, roasted pepper, spice,and black peppercorns
Flavor
Smooth and supple entry with a round medium-bodied palate with sweet prune and roasted pepper
Finish
Long, sweet and fruity pepper fade
2)
1800 Select Silver
(50% alcohol)
($69.95)
Aged in American oak barrels for 15 days.
The world's only American 100 proof Silver Tequila
Color
Crystal Clear with blonde highlights
Aroma
Agave, pepper, caramel, banana and pineapple
Flavor
Smooth, round taste with forward agave sweetness
Finish
Memorable with a soft finish
3)
1800 Reposado
($49.99)
Rested in American and french Oak barrels for 6 months
Color
Honey-brown amber
Aroma
Butterscotch, caramel vanilla, and orange peel
Flavor
Round and supple, buttery caramel and mild spice flavors
Finish
Sweet orange peel, white pepper, and marzipan
4)
1800 Anejo
($93.30)
Aged in French Oak barrels for 3 years
Color
dark amber wit hcopper highlights
Aroma
Vanilla, cinnamon, cloves, butterscotch and chocolate
Flavor
Nutty with toffee flavors
Finish
Peppery spice
5)
1800 Coleccion
(40% alcohol) ($ = ?; I haven't found this at any retail store yet!!)
A blend of younger and older Tequila reserves aged in charred French Oak barrels
Color
Dark amber with copper highlights
Aroma
Deep oak, vanilla, toasted almonds, cloves, and peppers
Flavor
Vanilla, oak, almonds, spice, toasted coconut
Finish
Well rounded, evolving finish with velvet nuance.
Very rich, smooth, complex finish
SAUZA
The history of Sauza dates back to 1873. That's when the namesake, Don Cenobio Sauza, first bottled and sold Sauza Silver. Years later, in 1929, Don Cenobio’s son Don Eladio Sauza added Sauza Gold to the collection.
The Sauza's (widely considered Tequila’s first family) have long served as industry pioneers. They were the first to refer to the spirit as “Tequila” and the first to export it to the United States. Then, to help preserve the integrity of Tequila, the Sauza’s were instrumental in forming the
"Denomination of Origin" , a law ensuring that Tequila could only come from Mexico. Since then, the Sauza family has spent decades cultivating the Agave and perfecting the art of distilling.
1)
Sauza Silver
The Master Blender carefully distills Sauza ® Silver to specifically emphasize fresh Agave notes. Truly a balanced, clean and herbal Tequila.
Color:
Crystal clear
Aroma:
Very approachable with jasmine and lime followed by fresh agave and green apple aromas
Taste:
Fresh Green
2)
Sauza Gold
Sauza ® Gold is a smooth Tequila with the fresh Agave taste you expect—plus an extra hint of cooked Agave and Vanilla.
Color:
Pale golden hue
Aroma:
Sweet aromas of vanilla and cooked agave layered with orange blossom and almond notes
Taste:
Cooked agave and sweet caramel balanced with pepper notes
AZUL
From the house of "Gran Centenario", Mexico's most award winning ultra-premium Tequilas, Tenampa Azul is a "Tequila for our times".
Azul has a very fresh taste with all the authentic undertones that only 100% Agave can produce.
The finest 100% Blue Agave Tequila is harvested from plants that range from 10-12 years.
More mature than the average 6 years standard, and the plants are also grown in the Highlands where the soil is richer.
The Tequila is rested in never before used French Limousin oak barrels for optimum flavor.
1) Silver ($24.95)
2) Reposado ($24.95)
Camarena
Not all Tequilas are created equal. Familia Camarena Tequila is made from 100% blue agave.
This mythical plant takes its time to reach the perfect size and depth of flavor for making fine Tequila – sometimes as long as a decade. Some of our family's agave fields reach nearly 8,000 feet in the highlands region of Jalisco, Mexico, where high elevation, a mild climate and rich red earth give our Familia Camarena Tequila its refined flavor.
Blue agave is the heart of any great Tequila. Highland agave azul from Jalisco is the soul of Familia Camarena Tequila.
100% pure agave in every bottle.
1) Silver ($35.99)
Clear with a pure, platinum sheen, Familia Camarena 100% Blue Agave Silver Tequila shows notes of rich toasted agave and fresh green herbs. Exceptionally soft and smooth on the palate, our Silver Tequila exhibits hints of sweet vanilla, savory brown spices and black pepper with a graceful, warming finish.
2) Reposado ($35.99)
Reposado means "to rest." We let our Familia Camarena 100% Blue Agave Reposado Tequila rest in American oak barrels for 60 days before bottling. The aging process lends a touch of soft spice to the natural sweetness of the agave in our Reposado Tequila. The result is a smooth, refined barrel aged Tequila with an elegant, robust finish.
Weekly Tequila
CABO WABO
Cabo Wabo
is the name of a chain of nightclubs and restaurants located in Cabo San Lucas, BCS, Mexico, as well as Harvey's Lake Tahoe in Stateline, Nevada and a third location on the Las Vegas Strip in Nevada just outside of the Miracle Mile Shops at Planet Hollywood. It is also a popular brand of tequila. All were founded by rock musician Sammy Hagar. The Cabo San Lucas location is generally considered to be one of the top three most popular nightclubs in town. But as opposed to competing nightclub/bar Squid Roe (which plays top-40 music and attracts a younger/spring-break clientele), Cabo Wabo typically attracts an older adult clientele with its mostly rock music selection.
In the late 1990s Hagar began selling his patrons a house brand of hand-made tequila he commissioned from a family-owned distillery in the state of Jalisco. In 1999, a wine importer from Napa Valley began to import the Tequila into the United States. An instant success, sales rose from 37,000 cases the first year to 140,000 cases in 2006, making it the second-best selling premium Tequila in the United States.
1) Blanco ($69.97)
As crystal clear as the waters surrounding Cabo San Lucas, Cabo Wabo Tequila Blanco arouses the senses with fresh floral aromas complemented by notes of lime and mint. Handcrafted from 100-percent Weber’s Blue Agave, our Blanco boasts unadulterated agave flavors and a slightly spicy character that teases the palate, and delivers a crisp, clean finish that leaves you energized and refreshed. Enjoy Cabo Wabo Tequila Blanco as a chilled shot or in your favorite premium drink.
Pure, crystal-clear color
Bottled direct from distillation
Fresh, floral bouquet with spicy lime and full agave flavors`1
2) Reposado ($81.65)
Recognized as one of the finest tequilas in the world, Cabo Wabo Tequila Reposado delivers a distinctive experience that even the most discerning drinkers find delightful and unique. An assertive nose of sweet lime, orange and fresh herbs excites upon pouring. Maturation in American oak casks for 4 to 6 months infuses our Reposado with a bold peppery flavor and hints of fruit that linger on the palate briefly, followed by a long, spicy finish. A truly incomparable spirit, Cabo Wabo Tequila Reposado is ideal for sipping solo or in a top-shelf margarita or other mixed drinks.
Amber-yellow color
Aged in oak casks for four to six months
Rich, peppery taste with abundant fruit flavors
3) Anejo ($107.31)
For those who appreciate the deep, robust flavor that only proper aging can bring, Cabo Wabo Tequila Añejo is truly a tequila without peer. Matured in American oak barrels for 14 months, our Añejo presents a full vanilla and caramel nose that quickly gives way to woody notes on the palate complemented by hints of honey and chocolate. A long, delicate finish—the definition of smooth—completes the experience, and it makes Cabo Wabo Tequila Añejo a drink best enjoyed on its own.
Amber-gold color
Aged in American oak barrels for 14 months
Vanilla and caramel nose with honey and chocolate flavors
DON JULIO
From the rich clay soil of the Los Altos region of Mexico comes
Don Julio Tequila .
1)
Don Julio Blanco
($99.99)
Bottled immediately after distilling.
With a fresh agave expression and citrus notes, this tequila is called upon often when concocting innovative cocktails and the ultimate margarita, but is also perfect on its own or on the rocks.
Don Julio Blanco was given a ‘Classic’ rating in Wine Enthusiast Magazine’s review of the top spirits of 2007. ‘Classic’ is their highest recommendation and was awarded after noted critic Paul Pacult reviewed over 250 spirits.
Notes from the Master Distiller;
Color
Clear
Nose
Crisp Agave aromas blended with hints of fresh citrus notes – lemon, lime and grapefruit
Taste
A lightly sweet and incredibly pure agave flavor immediately excites the palate and rounds out for a smooth and lush Blanco tequila of unrivalled excellence
Finish
Clean and fresh complemented by a touch of black pepper and grassy undertones
2)
Don Julio Reposado
($99.99)
Aged in American white oak barrels for 8 months.
Best enjoyed on its own, or with a refreshing grapefruit soda, or sipped along with fresh Sangrita.
Notes from the Master Distiller;
Color
Straw-like color
Nose
An inviting aroma of mellow, lemon citrus notes and spice layers with touches of ripe stone fruit
Taste
Incredibly soft and elegant hints of dark chocolate, vanilla and light cinnamon balanced with subtle notes of pear, apple and lemon for a lightly honeyed and smooth flavor to be savored
Finish
Silky, warm finish with an essence of dried fruit and nuts, redolent of a caramel apple
3)
Don Julio Anejo
($109.99)
Aged in American white oak barrels for 18 months.
Prized for its enticing layers of flavors and softness, Don Julio Añejo is best appreciated when enjoyed neat, over ice or as a mixed cocktail.
Notes from the Master Distiller;
Color
Light amber
Nose
This alluringly fragrant, aged tequila has a fresh blend of lime, grapefruit and mandarin citrus aromas with a rich touch of caramel
Taste
Wonderfully complex with expressions of cooked agave and wild honey. Notes of cherries and strawberries with vanilla and oaky butterscotch. Distinctively full-bodied with astonishing depth of character
Finish
Bright and lightly spiced finish with the essence of wild honey in the background for a rewarding long finale
PATRON
John Paul DeJoria
is the co-founder of Patrón Tequila.
Now Patrón is wholly owned by Caribbean Distillers Corporation Limited, which also owns Anguilla Rums Limited (owner of Pyrat® rum), CDC S.A. de C.V. (the Patrón® related Mexican operation), and Ultimat Spirits GmbH, worldwide distributor of Ultimat® ultra-premium Polish vodka.
1)
Patron Silver
($99.99)
Patron Silver is crystal clear, ultra premium tequila.
This light, fresh tequila is a favorite of tequila connoisseurs worldwide.
Many prefer this smooth, soft, and light tequila over an aged and slightly oaky flavor.
Patron Silver is the perfect ingredient in a margarita or in your favorate cocktail.
It is also delicious neat or on the rocks.
2)
Patron Reposado
($109.99)
Patron Reposado is aged in oak barrels for over two months.
It's aged and blended to incorporate the fresh clear taste of Silver with a hint of oak flavor found in Anejo.
Reposado is excellent as a sipping tequila or as a key ingredient in a favorite cocktail.
It makes an excellent ultra premium margarita.
3)
Patron Anejo
($125.99)
Patron Anejo is a delicate blend of uniquely aged tequilas.
All the tequilas are aged in small white oak barrels for a minimum of 12 months.
As in many premium red wines, the blends must be adjusted for each vintage.
The same care and attention is paid when blending Anejo, making it smooth, distinctive, and extraordinary.
Monthly Tequila
The "Monthly Tequila's" are brands which are also listed in the weekly category, but are the "Premium" Tequila's.
CABO WABO
Uno
($239.98)
Cabo Uno is the result of a rare event, where the patience of nature and meticulous craftsmanship converge in a crescendo of perfection. Handcrafted from select, 100-percent Weber’s Blue Agave, Cabo Uno is matured in charred American white oak barrels for 38 months. Produced in boutique batches, each bottle is signed and numbered.
Boasting delicate aromas of fresh herbs and tropical fruit, Cabo Uno excites the palate with elegant notes of chocolate, caramel and roasted coffee before delivering a long and ultra-smooth finish. Bottled in hand-blown crystal and boxed in wood and leather, Cabo Uno is the finest tequila in the world. Savor in a snifter for an epic tequila experience.
Pure amber color
Matured in American white oak barrels for 38 months
Herb and tropical fruit aroma with chocolate, caramel and roasted coffee flavors
Don Julio 1942
($256.62)
Aged in American white oak barrels for at least 2 1/2 years.
This limited-edition tequila is best appreciated when served in a snifter. Adding even more to its exclusivity, Tequila Don Julio 1942 undergoes a second distillation in a special still known as Pot Still 6, which refines the flavors even further.
Notes from the Master Distiller;
Color
Brilliant golden hue
Nose
Rich, sweet aromas of caramel and toffee layered with a fresh vanilla fragrance and hints of red fruits like cherry mixed with caramel and almonds. Chocolate tones along with cinnamon and a light touch of wood.
Taste
A silky, smooth character that coats the palate with roasted agave and vanilla flavors, sun-ripened tropical fruits and spiced undertones to create a wonderfully unique tequila experience
Finish
Beautiful, sweet agave-laced finish with lingering hints of oak and rich vanilla essence
PATRON
Gran Patron Platinum
($429.99)
Gran Patron Platinum is the worlds finest platinum tequila.
Triple distilled then aged to perfection, it is a true connoisseur's silver tequila.
This is the smoothest sipping tequila ever produced.
Yearly Tequila
The "Yearly Tequila's" are brands which are also listed in the weekly categories, but these are the "Ultra Premium" Tequila's.
DON JULIO
Don Julio Real
($863.28)
Aged in American white oak barrels for 3 to 5 years.
For the ultimate tequila experience, sip it neat in a specialized tequila glass. Don Julio REAL is produced from a highly selective batch of only the best estate-grown agave and its second distillation is in a special still known as Pot Still 6, which refines the flavors even further.
Notes from the Master Distiller;
Color
Majestic golden hue
Nose
Rich, sweet aromas of caramel and toffee layered with a fresh vanilla fragrance and hints of red fruits like cherry mixed with caramel and almonds. Chocolate tones along with cinnamon and a light touch of wood.
Taste
Attractive dry fruit flavors, cooked agave and peach are the first flavors perceived. Enticing vanilla flavors layered with caramel, chocolate and coffee undertones and a slight herbal essence create a refined, yet unforgettable sensation
Finish
Sweetly seductive with lingering vanilla impressions and a hint of oak for a warm, sensuous finish
PATRON
Gran Patron Burdeos Anejo
($1049.97)
Patron Burdeos Anejo is a tequila matured in oak barrels made of a unique blend of American mountain oak and oaks from the different regions of France.
The tequila is aged for 12 months, then distilled once again and racked in hand selected Bordeaux barrels, adding the distinct fruity flavors of the finest Bordeaux wines.
Gary's brothers suggestion = ESPOLON