Turning My Head Out
Turning My Head Out
My reviews and Opinion on Movies,
music, Comics, video games
and anything else that comes up
Tuesday, June 11, 2013
Utah In Comics and TV
Wow! It has been a long, long time since I have tickled the keys of my laptop to write a blog post that will hopefully be read by at least 5 people. So to "come back" I've revamped my blog, made it look a bit more snazzy and I've decided to do this post to acknowledge that Salt Lake City will be having its first Comic-Con this September! So to get the public excited about Salt Lake's first Comic-Con, I've decided to highlight some times in comics and television where Utah has appeared. I understand I'm not highlighting everything, so if you know of other times Utah is mentioned throughout comics and pop-culture please feel free to leave it in the comments.
First off i have to say Utah is a great state. Complain about it all you want but really you can't move away; Why? Because you secretly love it. Its got an amazing landscape with mountains that brush the underbelly of the clouds. Rock landscapes that encourage the numerous outdoor activities and snow that makes skiers and snowboarders shed a tear. Enough about the state itself, lets move onto the real reason you're reading this; to find out about where our state pops up in comics!
Doctor Who
I remember back in 2006 when me and my family moved to the United States; I believe we had left the UK part way through series 2 of Doctor Who. With the excitement that me and my siblings had for this show we told everyone we met about the alien that has two hearts, travels in time and space and has been a different person 10 times! Now it may have been that people didn't understand what we were saying because of our thick British accents but most people didn't hop onto the TARDIS bandwagon, then lo and behold Netflix arrived and it has caught on and spread like a wildfire in the mountains. It may have been because of these reasons that it has become very popular in Utah.
Season 1 Episode 6 "Dalek"
The premiering episode of the new Daleks was set underneath the salt plains of Utah. Although we don't get to see any Utah landscape, its still fun to watch it with the thought that they are running around in some underground base beneath Utah.
Season 6 Episode 1 "The Impossible Astronaut"
In this episode The Doctor invites his companions the Ponds and River Song to meet him in Utah. The difference between this episode and the Dalek episode is that we actually get to see the amazing Utah landscapes and we get to see them many times. Another notable place we get to see is Lake Powell which is named "Lake Silencio" in the episode. I don't know a single person who hasn't been to Lake Powell at least once. Utah residents love boating, wake-boarding, tubing and fishing and "Lake Silencio" is a popular spot. Its exciting again to see the state was used for an important part of the season six story line in which The Doctor is killed in the season premiere! I myself wasn't able to see it filmed on location nor have i been able to visit the spot but if this Salt Lake Comic-Con continues annually, i think we need to get Matt Smith, Karen Gillan, Arthur Darvill and Alex Kingston to come!
Another mention of Utah is on the title track of the Season 6 soundtrack called "The Doctor in Utah."
I'm happy that Doctor Who has got the recognition is deserves here in the states and especially Utah. It has made buying Doctor Who merch easier. Call me a hipster but i knew about Doctor Who before it was cool.
Marvel Comics
From reading Marvel comics I've noticed they have quite a few mentions of Utah in some of their well known comics. They have also published "Enders Game" comic adaptations and "Ultimate Iron Man" which were written by once Utah resident Orson Scott Card (another person we should try and get to a SLC Comic-Con.) The other mentions come from two of my favorite Marvel comics.
1. Civil War
You can read my previous post
Marvel Vs DC comics
to read more on this storyline but for the sake of this mention i shall summarize. In "Civil War" heroes split sides, some siding with the government who is forcing heroes to register and some who are opposed to the government control. In the story the government trains heroes and sets them up into teams to police the superhuman acts/events of each state. (sort of an Avengers team for each state.) One moment in the comic while SHIELD agent Maria Hill is explaining what teams are where she mentions "Those Mormon heroes in Utah" which makes me breath a soft laugh every time i read Civil War. Here are the panels:
2. Wolverine: Old Man Logan
Old Man Logan is by far one of the best comics i have ever read. Written by Mark Millar, its set in a post apocalyptic time where a large majority of the heroes are dead and the villains rule the United States. Wolverine (Logan) lives a quiet life in California with his wife and two children living in patient fear of the Hulk Gang whom they pay passage to. To gain more money to pay the Hulk gang, Wolverine sets off with an old and blind Hawkeye trekking across the US to deliver a package to someone in New York. Now if you want to know what happens go and read the comic but i shall highlight the parts that were awesome to see in this comic and they are firstly, a mention to Cedar City, UT and second, the visual presence of Rice Eccles Stadium in Salt Lake City, UT. I highly recommend this comic if you haven't read it (its more on the mature side, not for kids) but for now here is the Rice Eccles panel:
Invincible
I wanted to save the best and most significant for last. Some Background; I am a huge fan of The Walking Dead comics and own all the books so far. As I would read them I would see ads in the back for other Robert Kirkman/Image comics and this one caught my eye - INVINCIBLE.
As I went to comic stores I would inquire about it and ask if it was good because if so I wanted to invest in it as I've done with The Walking Dead. Since grabbing volume 1 "Family Matters" I have become a huge fan and now own Ultimate Collections 1, 2 and 3 with 4, 5 and 6 coming in the mail this week. This is a great take on the superhero genre with an comedic but immersive storyline and intense but beautiful artwork that makes you want to look at each panel for at least an hour. Something that makes this comic more exciting and noteworthy (especially for us Utahn's) is that since issue 8 it has been drawn by Utah resident Ryan Ottley who is scheduled to attend the Salt Lake City Comic-Con. I'm guessing its because of Ryan Ottley penciling the comic that we see local comic shop "Night Flight Comics" appear in Invincible. Whether its meant to be the local Utah comic shop or not, its fun to think it is. Another great appearance is a road sign in Issue 7, no biggie but still fun to see that the Guardians of the Globe HQ is in Utah. Here's a peek at that:
So there you have it! Utah mentions in comics and TV that hopefully will get everyone excited and involved in the first Salt Lake City Comic-Con! I will be there so if you happen to read this and see me say Hello. Search the Amazon.com box to the right or Barnes and Noble to buy Civil War, Old Man Logan or volumes of Invincible (highly recommend it) and to buy tickets and for more information on SLCCC visit
http://www.saltlakecomiccon.com/
I hope to be posting more so subscribe to my blog and keep an eye out. thank you to everyone who reads this and any support I get. Thank You!
Posted by
Josh Wilsher
at
12:05 PM
No comments:
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share to Pinterest
Labels:
dalek ,
Doctor Who ,
invincible ,
marvel ,
ryan ottley ,
salt lake city ,
salt lake comic con ,
utah
Sunday, July 22, 2012
The Dark Knight Rises - "review" (*spoilers*)
AMAZING! Now when i say "Review" i mean that i can sum up the whole movie in a couple of sentences but i wanted to highlight a couple of things that made me go "oh.....". SO! i have to say straight away that this was an amazing movie, it was epic, it was grand and it was a great end to a trilogy. It had great twists and surprises and it was intense!  I think its safe to say this was the Star Wars trilogy for our generation.
The storyline was great and laid out very well and Nolan did a great job in condensing a couple of months into minutes, i was very impressed with that. Also i was impressed by Anne Hathaway's catwoman. I've never been a fan of catwoman and when she was cast i was like "argh really? catwoman?" but i can admit that she did a great job and it was a great addition to the film.
Bane breaking Batman's back was great, not as dramatic as the comic but it was still great to see. It was also great to see Nottingham's Wollaton Hall portrayed as Wayne Manor as i have been to wollaton hall many times and seeing it on the big screen in a big movie was surreal.
Overall it was an amazing movie. Its the super nerd in me that got a bit annoyed at a couple of things.
Damian Wayne
The first thing I'm going to address didn't annoy me or make me go "whaaaat!?" but was more like a "oh..alright whatever" and that is - Talia al Guhl dying. I was hoping she would live but I'm not that bothered. why? i hear you ask. well if you've not been reading 'Batman" comics for the past couple of years you have missed out on a new addition to the Wayne Family and that is -
Damian Wayne.
After Bruce Wayne gets down with Talia, he finds out later that she got pregnant and he has a son! Now his son is a bit psycho and too big for his own boots at times but that's understandable seen as he was raised by assassins and his dad sort of neglected him. Now he is the new Robin and has fought alongside Dick Grayson as Batman and also his Father Bruce Wayne. As i said it didn't bother me but i did think "oh man, no Damian" when Talia took her last breaths in the cab of that truck.
﻿
"Robin"
This is where the fan boy Nerd comes out. First up it was a nice surprise to hear that nod towards the character of robin but overall i feel it was a mistake because of these reasons -
Robin's real name is actually 'Dick Grayson' or it could be Jason Todd or Tim Drake or Damian Wayne as there have been a variety of Robin's. So first thing is that not using a real name like Dick Grayson, was a let down and kind of messed the character up.
Robin is NOT 30 something years old! i read that Nolan was never going to do Robin, let alone hint at him and i was disappointed because of his amazing renditions of characters so far; i had faith that he would do Robin the way he is meant to be - a young 14-18 year old boy like he is in the comics. So it was disappointing that he decided to take the "Chris O'Donnell" route by making "robin" too old. just compare -
Nowhere in the comics have i seen Robin be more than 18 years old. When the young Robin's outgrow the mantle they take on their own alias' like - Nightwing and Red Robin. My idea's for what he could have done to hint at robin - had John Blake's real name as Dick Grayson or Tim Drake. Given John Blake a nickname such as Nightwing etc. Have one of the 15 year olds at the orphanage have the name Dick Grayson or one of the other robin names. There were so many ways that he could have hinted at robin so much better but sadly we got given the "Chris O'Donnell" version. "and there was much rejoicing, yay..................................". Again it was a nice hint but i feel like he took an amazing movie and while not ruining it at all, kind of farted on it a bit at the end. It should have been done properly or just left out. Overall The Dark Knight Rises was an amazing movie and its definitely a movie that has redefined a universe, people, generation and made its mark. Christopher Nolan has done and amazing job. I'm interested to see the next take on The Dark Knight's world. If you haven't seen TDKR yet then you just spoilt alot for yourself and you should go see it!
Thanks for reading!
Posted by
Josh Wilsher
at
12:11 AM
No comments:
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share to Pinterest
Labels:
bane ,
Batman ,
catwoman ,
christian bale ,
christopher nolan ,
damian wayne ,
dick grayson ,
red robin ,
robin ,
talia al guhl ,
the dark knight rises
Monday, July 9, 2012
Judge Dredd: Several reasons to like "The Law"
This past week i went to the movies and i was greatly happy to be able to catch the trailer for "Dredd" on the big screen. As the title and credits faded away i heard sighs and groans of disappointment and unappreciation from other movie goers. Now seen as i live in Utah, i doubt there are many Judge Dredd fans here so i can eliminate the theory that they were groaning fans. After hearing the public i decided to voice my opinion (as usual) on my blog here and tell the world why Judge Dredd is an awesome comic book character but also why we should have an open mind to the new take of Dredd coming out in September. So here are several reasons why i like Judge Dredd﻿ and hopefully it persuades you . 1. One of, if not the first rough, tough and gritty comic .
Judge Dredd hit comic pages in 1977 when he was created by writer John Wagner. He was part of the British comic series 2000AD and from the front cover is automatically seen as a guy who you don't want to get on his bad side. Preparing to write this post i asked my Dad about his Judge Dredd "history" so to speak, because I've only read a handful of collections and seen the Stallone movie. He said what drew him to reading it was that Judge Dredd was tough and as he stated "I am the Law!", he made citizens in the comic and readers know he was Judge, Jury and Executioner. The Judge Dredd stories bought great new material and hard hitting stories to the comic world.
From my experience of reading Judge Dredd comics, even though they aren't as brutal as some comics today they still stand as a pioneer of comics that aren't afraid to show some harshness.
2. He Is The Law!
If you become or are a Dredd fan, you'll pick up quickly that his famous line is "I AM THE LAW!", why? because its fact! Judge Dredd patrols the streets of Mega City One, a futuristic city in 2031 that has several million citizens and is kept in check by 'The Judges'. They are the law enforcement and have been given the authority of Judge, Jury and Executioner. So that means if they arrest a murderer, they can trial them on the spot and decide whether they die or not making Judge Dredd the literal Law on the streets of Mega City One. This line carries on over to his attitude as well, as it makes him a total intimidating bad ass. For those who have read the comics when Dredd comes on the scene (and he's usually the first) the call goes out from the first person to wet themselves - "Oh dok!? its Dredd!"
His attitude is comparable to that of Batman's in that he's hard, intimidating and gets things done whatever the cost but at the same time has a underlying care for those close to him. Above is a strip of the comic "Judge Death Lives!" where Judge Fear of 'The Four Dark Judges' tries to sort of "penance stare" Judge Dredd but in return gets to gaze into something a bit more solid.
3. The Uniform
Original Comic Dredd
Stallone Dredd
Karl Urban Dredd
This was one point because if you genuinely look at the Judges uniforms they look kind of impractical and very colourful, nevertheless, i think we can all admit it is an awesome look and shows the power that Dredd has. Green gloves and boots plowing through criminals, a hefty gold badge, honkin' great shoulder pads - one which has an eagle, and last but not least the black and redlined helmet with a visor, Its an awesome costume and Dredd pulls it off well. The uniform has actually been a big part of the transition into movies, as you can see from the pictures, the uniform has taken a change in the movies, especially the new 2012 movie where it seems they have gone for a rusty bulletproof vest look without massive shoulder pads. One thing that has been done great is the helmet, its like Thor's hammer or Captain America's shield - it has to be done right and i feel like they've done great. Problem was with the Stallone movie that put alot of fans off was that he took of his helmet and didn't wear it too much, which in the comic i don't think that thing ever leaves his head.
4. Details/ Creativeness
One thing that i love about the Judge Dredd comics is the creativeness and details that make mega city one and its Judges entertaining and exciting. First of all the idea of a policeman having all three powers of Judge, jury and executioner is a cool idea, probably not one we'd want in our world but its a brilliant futuristic idea. Next is the Judges 'lawgiver' that has a variety of 6 different ammo to help get the job done. These ammo include - Armour piercing, high explosive, heat seeker, incendiary and ricochet. My favourite has to be the heat seeker as it flies around corners to deliver judgment to the criminals that hide behind walls. I feel like the Stallone movie did a great job in utilizing the different ammo's and I'm excited to see how they do it in the new movie. Just from the trailer it looks like he uses a variety. Another part of its creativity is its profanity, they don't even as much as say "we're going to kick your ass" instead they say 'Butt' and also most times you'll hear characters say "Drokk!", which roughly translates to your usual curse words or "Dok" which i think roughly translates to God . I think there are some more but i can't remember, i like this though because i like to read comics and not have swearing, only exception is The walking dead because it seems people would use language in a situation like that, but then again it can be a bit unnecessary at times.
5. Facts and Numbers Finally if none of the other points have convinced you, here are a few facts and things that will show that Judge Dredd is pretty well known. First off Dredd was rated the 7th greatest comic book character in Empire magazine and 35th in IGN's 100 greatest comic book heroes. still not wow'd? Judge Dredd has had crossover comics battling the disturbing and dreadful Aliens and Predator. Last but not least for all the Batman fans (i mention batman because since nolan's batman movies came out everyone's heads turn when you say batman or joker because it seems to have become a fad). Dredd has even been published by DC comics and also had a series of Crossover's with The Dark Knight himself where they were not only put against each other's foes but also against each other.
So there you have it, some of my thoughts and reasons on why Judge Dredd is a comic and movie worth paying attention to. hope you enjoyed the read and that you take a look into the world of Judge Dredd. Karl Urban (Star Trek) is playing Judge Dredd in the new 2012 Dredd movie and it looks great, if you haven't seen the trailer yet, here it is -
Thanks for reading, tell your friends and spread the Dredd!﻿
Posted by
Josh Wilsher
at
11:59 PM
No comments:
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share to Pinterest
Labels:
2000AD ,
Dredd 3D ,
Drokk ,
John Wagner ,
Judge Death ,
Judge Dredd ,
judgement on gotham ,
karl urban ,
Mega City One ,
stallone
Monday, July 2, 2012
DC vs Marvel Marvel Comics, What Happened?
I'M BACK! and to revamp my blog i decided to bore you all with a big rant about comics. har har!
so you're probably wondering what this post is about - well lately I've really been ranting to my brothers and friends about DC vs Marvel, about their pro's and con's of being comic companies.
I ask the question "Marvel Comics, what happened?" because as this post goes on you'll hear my opinions on what they have done to their 'universe' as opposed to DC comics.
To start off for those who are unfamiliar with comics in general, for DC and Marvel each company has a set world, universe, storyline, whatever you want to call it. The set one is the main universe where comic companies run their regular storyline and usually all of their major comic events each year.
As I've read Marvel and DC comics, I've seen lots of change come to each universe, some that is good some that makes you say "really?....". so I'm going to cover a couple of events that have happened which have (in my opinion) either broken or boosted the comics.
Marvel
As you'll see in the world today, Marvel is a very public and well known comic company especially with trademark characters like Spiderman, Wolverine and The Hulk. Now we have the Avengers to thank for an outstanding introduction into more of the marvel universe. Now even though The marvel Cinematic universe (as its been named) is thriving with great interpretations of favourite heroes and amazing story lines with twist and thrills; i can't help but notice that Marvel's comics have taken a bit of a beating and have the become the abandoned child of their franchise. It feels like they aren't trying as hard on their comics as they were and that the only way to keep selling is with shock value. here are a couple of events that i wanted to cover -
Civil War I still have to get this for my comic library but this comic event for me was so amazing but at the same time ruined the marvel universe. Civil War is about the battle between what's right and what's fair. The American Government have partnered with Tony Stark/Iron Man to pass the 'Superhuman registration act' which makes it mandatory for all super heroes and villains to register their secret identity with the government and receive special training to work with the government. while Stark thinks this is a great idea, Captain America/Steve Rogers is surprisingly the one who opposes the government he stands for, saying that it is unfair to force them to reveal identities. A series of events unfold and it climaxes to the point where Captain America dies.
First off - how Captain America dies is pretty pathetic, he gets shot. i know he's handcuffed and what not but he's fought off countless aliens and armies with his hands behind his back. Another thing was after the events of Civil War, spiderman's universe got flipped around by some magical man, and SHIELD kind of became a dictatorship to superheroes. it was an amazing storyline and the events that happened during the story were great, they were enjoyable but it left the marvel universe in ruins and i felt like Marvel didn't do a good job in picking up the pieces.
Ultimatum﻿
Ultimatum was set in Marvel's "Ultimate" universe and was a big event before marvel rebooted Ultimate Spiderman, Ultimate Iron Man etc into 'Ultimate Comics: Spiderman' 'Ultimate Comics: Iron Man'. Also you should know the Avengers are called "The Ultimates" in this universe.
The Story of Ultimatum was that Magneto was steaming angry with the death of his daughter The Scarlet Witch, so in his anger he flipped the magnetic poles of the earth causing a tidal wave to drown New York City and other anomalies to happen over the globe. with what few superheroes are left, they band together to find magneto and bring him to justice for what he has done.
This event was like Civil War in that it was an amazing story to read and i enjoyed it but at the end it was in ruins, they were lazy in picking up the pieces and even though it was shocking and exciting, they killed off too many characters and unlike DC comics, Marvel can't bring their heroes back to life with style. First of here is a "small" list of people that died - Yellowjacket/Antman, Dr Strange, The Blob, Magneto, Wolverine, Dr Doom, Daredevil, Professor X, Nightcrawler, Cyclops, Beast and Archangel. Then apart from that list we see heroes who seem to go MIA - Thor, Spiderman, Dr strange (even though he dies, someone comes out a light and gets him..dunno). after being left in confusion, i read that marvel released what they called "Requiem" a series of comics covering only spiderman, xmen and fantastic four after the events of Ultimatum. Then in the new "Ultimate Comics:......."  the events of Ultimatum are only mentioned like twice and nothing more is explained. That really annoyed me.....
Other things with Marvel comics is that in the Ultimate Comics: Spiderman, Peter Parker is dead and its now a black Mexican kid filling the role as spiderman in a black and red suit. In my opinion Peter Parker should always be spiderman and if you want to bring in another spiderman, make a storyline like Spiderman 2099 or just create another alternate universe but in the main and ultimate universe's leave it as Peter Parker. Also we see that marvel has used its Shock horror factor and announced the first Homosexual wedding in a comic - this annoys me because i don't care, i really don't care about a fictional characters sexual preference, when i read comics i want action, explosions, twists in a story, but i don't want stupid relationships, even between men and women its boring. This is an event where you can see marvel is running out of idea's and Aren't trying to keep their original characters exciting.
As i look back at what I've just written you probably think I'm a homophobic racist but I'm not, i just don't care for my comics to be Politically correct, let alone even include things about what is happening in the world, i want to read fiction, and that means i don't want current world issues, i read comics to escape the issues of the world, doesn't everyone? So overall breathtaking job on your movies and TV shows Marvel but hire some better writers for your comics.
Other great marvel reads - Wolverine: Old Man Logan, Civil War: Iron Man/Spiderman/Wolverine, Ultimate Spiderman Series, Iron Man: Extremis.
DC Comics
DC has had an amazing past year and has successfully rebooted their main universe and other heroes. With Geoff Johns (the Steven Moffat of Comics) on board, they have released some of the best comic events and done a good job in picking up the pieces in the aftermath. I feel like DC has made a couple of good movies ("amazing" for the batman trilogy) and still put the same effort into their comics, after all we wouldn't have the movies without the comics. if you want to know more about the New 52 Reboot you can read my review of Justice League #1 and Batman #1
here .
Here are some events that have shown the epicocity (is that a word or am i just quoting tobuscus?) of DC's events  -
Blackest Night
About 2 years ago Green Lantern was bought to the front of the DC franchise when we saw him lead the DC universe against the powers of darkness in Blackest Night. In this comic event Nekron the black lantern of death rises to take over the living and wipe out all of the other lanterns as well as life itself. Teaming up with the other lanterns, Hal Jordan fights to keep the light of the lanterns burning. It was a genius idea introducing more Lanterns and using the colour spectrum with emotions. overall it seem like DC sat down to brainstorm and was like "lets do a story about the powers of the colours of a mood ring" so simple but so genius. In this event DC started doing some epic 2 page pictures that made your enthusiasm for the story grow. Following the aftermath of Blackest Night came the event 'Brightest Day' which was nothing like Blackest Night but was still enjoyable and explained further as to why certain heroes and villains were resurrected at the end of Blackest Night.
Flashpoint
I wanted to highlight this comic event because it is the event that ushered in The New 52. Its the event that showed that you can reboot your comics nicely without killing characters and still having it make sense. Flashpoint follows the Flash as he wakes up in an alternate universe where Thomas Wayne (Bruce Wayne's dad) is Batman, Wonder Woman and Aquaman are at war and Superman was captured as a child and put into a government project. It was a good story with a nice twist and this next part, the conclusion and cross into the new 52 I'm going to let wikipedia explain haha -
Traveling back in time, Barry merges with his younger counterpart during the attempt to stop Thawne. While traveling through time, Barry realizes he can see three different timelines — DC,
Vertigo , and
Wildstorm . A mysterious hooded figure, later identified as "Pandora", tells him that the world was split into three to weaken them for an impending threat, and must now be reunited to combat it. The DC, Vertigo, and Wildstorm universes are then merged, creating
a brand new DC Universe . Barry then wakes up in a similar manner to the beginning of Flashpoint. Believing that everything is over, Barry remembers Thomas' letter and gives it to Bruce, who is still the Batman in this timeline. Bruce is deeply touched by his father's sacrifice to ensure his own life, and cries, and is grateful to Barry for informing him of the events that transpired before the timeline was reset ﻿.
Now we have the all New 52 DC comics which so far have been great and i've really enjoyed reading.
Night Of the Owls
I consider this the first of the new 52 and an important DC story arc/event. All throughout Gotham's history there has been an underground council with an assassin known as the court of owls. They have watched over Gotham and kept it running the way they want it. Now they are after the dark knight who is turning Gotham in a direction they aren't happy with. Night of the Owls is a great show of teamwork as it included Robin, Nightwing, Red Robin, Batgirl, Batwoman, Batwing, and other characters of the Batman family each heeding to the call of Alfred after the court of owls sends a city wide order to assassinate Gotham officials. After being tortured mentally and physically by the court Batman becomes stronger and better to take down the court.  I've been subscribing to Batman comics and the lead up to this event has been great and then the execution of the main event was epic!
﻿
Other things with DC are that this year they announced that Green Lantern (not a real green lantern from OA, just some magical crap) Alan Scott was gay, this was a disappointment because it seemed like DC were just trying to compete with Marvel over the whole gay thing. same opinion on that, don't care, don't want it in my comics. Also they have made Starfire look and act like a sleaze, which i know she's looked a bit raunchy at times but don't we all picture her as the lovable and naive teen titan? I haven't got much to say about DC, they seem to know how to keep their character exciting and don't feel the need to change the original character. Lets just say if DC can "kill off" Batman in 'Final Crisis' and bring him back in a smart way then they can do anything and we don't have to worry.
Other great DC Comics reads - Final Crisis, Green Lantern: Rebirth, Flash: Rebirth, The Flash: Dastardly Death of the Rogues (this one shows flash in his prime), SupermanBatman series, Batman: Hush.
If you have any questions about a comic you want to get or recommendations for or from me, feel free to email me or leave a comment. There are also other great comics not published my Marvel and DC. Haven't forgot about The Walking Dead!
Thanks for Reading!
﻿
Posted by
Josh Wilsher
at
7:37 PM
No comments:
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share to Pinterest
Labels:
aquaman ,
Batman ,
cyborg ,
DC Comics ,
Flash ,
hawkeye ,
Justice League ,
magneto ,
nightwing ,
the amazing spiderman ,
the avengers ,
Thor
Sunday, January 29, 2012
Review: Gotham City Impostors (Beta)
This week i was informed that the new Batman spin off game "Gotham City Impostors" had its BETA testing version up on the PS network. So i downloaded it quick as i could because its awesomely FREE! After neglecting this and MW3 a bit i have been able to get to level 11 and see why this is a great multiplayer game.
The theme of the game is that at dawn/day when Batman has gone to bed and the Joker is making plans there are 2 gangs of renegades and amateur vigilantes who dress up in crude imitations of their idols and feel that it is their duty to wage the war on crime during the day. Really its just a tongue and cheek, fun take on the Batman universe but i can say that this is up there with MW3 for online multiplayer first person shooters, in fact i have had more fun playing this because I'm not getting shot in the head every 5 seconds by some insecure fool called I-KiLl.Noo8s--f@c3cra99erF'dUrM0m (or some screen name only a computer can decode), who obviously has been playing it for countless hours.
The thing that makes this game unique and fun is the customization of characters, weapons and gadgets. Most of the Weapons are basic guns but then again there are quite a few that look like they were made in a rednecks backyard shed. I like that because it adds character to the game and keeps the feeling of "these people are weirdo crazy" to the game. The same goes for the uniforms, it adds character and originality to the game, plus it makes you think back to the scene in "The Dark Knight" when we hear Batman say to his supporters "I'm Not Wearing Hockey Pads!". Its very much like call of duty with weapons in that you have a primary, secondary, tactical, lethal and a couple of perks. The only difference is that you can customize the weight and size of your character which can affect how fast you move and what weapons you can use.
The BETA has 2 maps (crime alley and an amusement park) and 2 game types (fumigation and brainwashing). The Maps are fairly small which is good because it keeps the gameplay fast and continuous but because they are the only two everyone has the figured out already. The two game types are good choices to show what the game is like. In fumigation its like base capturing, you have to secure 3 bases to unleash an attack of bats or joker gas. simple territorial game type. The brainwashing one I'm not a fan of, its pretty much capture the flag. You have to obtain a battery to take to your base which powers a machine to brainwash and confuse the other teams, making it easy for your to take them out. I've never been good at capture the flag, so i don't play it much.
It being a BETA version, it does take a while to load and find players sometimes and there are a few glitches. I don't know if this is because of the Beta version or if its just my crappy playing skills - i unload on a guy point blank with piercing rounds and he doesn't go down, yet one shot in my torso and I'm dead. dunno? maybe i need a stronger gun. ah well. Though its a BETA version it delivers the play standards of a regular game and is dependable.
Overall it is one of the best first person shooters I've played. If you play Call of duty then you'll like this one because it gives a break from the serious atmosphere of COD. For me i don't care if i die or live on this game because its so out there and ridiculous, you can't help but laugh at the ways you die or kill another player where as on MW3 it feels like everyone thinks they lose their dignity if they get bested. Gotham City Impostors Is a straight up, fun multiplayer game.
So if you have a PS3 go to the playstation store and search "Gotham" (or the full name) and download the BETA version now! ﻿
Posted by
Josh Wilsher
at
9:20 PM
No comments:
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share to Pinterest
Labels:
Batman ,
call of duty ,
crime alley ,
DC Comics ,
fumigation ,
gotham city impostors ,
modern warfare 3 ,
playstation 3 ,
playstation store ,
PSN ,
the joker
Review: Rayman (original) DSi-Ware
First off, sorry i haven't written anything for yonks of time which is really bad too especially when a site features my blog and i get people looking at it. oops! Things have been pretty busy lately and also I'm slightly addicted to Modern Warfare 3 online and also another game which i will post a review of right after this one. I don't want to say I'm not going to review anymore or post things but i guess it won't be that often. maybe 2-4 times a month? dunno maybe more.
ANYWAY!!
About a week ago i got the newest "Nintendo Power" out of the library and it was a good'un, especially with its review and amazing amount of "Kid Icarus: Uprising" which comes out march of this year. They also had a section highlighting the products on the 3DS E-shop. While my eyes scrolled through all the ones i know about and then countless black and white side scrollers they then fell upon "Rayman". The first ever rayman game which made its debut on the Playstation. I remembered playing it on the PSone when it first came out and i loved it, so i purchased it for my 3DS. technically its part of the DSi-Ware shop but you can find it on the E-shop, but its not 3D....oh man.
For anyone who's never played the original rayman, i imagine its much like the others (except for the rabbit spin-offs, what was with that?) in that you have to save little pink things and its a basic side scroller. I know that "Rayman: Origins" is very similar to this one, hence why its called Origins. In Rayman, you travel through a variety of themed worlds throwing your fist and flying with your hair to save the little pink people who are trapped in cages. Simple task but one fun adventure especially as you progress and unlock new worlds.
What i love about the original is the imagination and colour in the different worlds. The soundtrack and sounds are memorable and is a great comfortable and fun side scroller classic. Even though Rayman: Origins was fun, i still felt like i wanted the original art and graphics like you can see above. With this version they kept that and even added to it by placing a map of where you are on the lower touch screen, sometimes it helps, most the time its just for show.
Another great addition to the DSi version is the save points. when the clown takes your photo as rayman, the DSi/3DS takes a picture of you for the save file. i learned this when i was looking like the back end of a horse, what a lovely save file picture it was.............but its a fun addition to the classic game. In terms of game play and levels most of it is the same as the PSone version but i couldn't help thinking that some of the levels and power ups have been swapped around a bit. For example it wasn't til quite later on that i got the power to fly with the helicopter hair, whereas i thought in the PSone version you get that as your 2nd power after the punch? So with some power ups moved, the levels are a bit harder and sometimes seem impossible to beat. Other times its very easy. Overall though i purchased it to relive my childhood and quite simply I'm not drawn toward all these modern makeovers and spin-offs of Rayman.
So if your a fan of any of the new Rayman games, definitely get this one and play it. Find out about its roots. If you played this version before then why not get it again, its like playing playstation all over again......but on a DSi/3DS.
Rayman can be found on the Nintendo E-shop for a nice price of $7.99 and while your on the E-shop, don't forget to download the "Mario and Sonic at the London Olympics" and "Resident Evil: Revelations" Demo's﻿
Posted by
Josh Wilsher
at
6:51 PM
No comments:
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share to Pinterest
Labels:
3ds ,
DSi ,
e-shop ,
nintendo ,
Rayman
Sunday, January 15, 2012
Music Spotlight: Ed Sheeran
Late last year i was introduced to the music of Ed Sheeran and immediately loved the variety of his music. I was also confused for about a month and thought that he was Rupert Grint with a name change because of the video "Lego House", but after watching it all the way through I've gained knowledge!" Since then I've told people about him and saw that one of his songs plays on the 2012 Hollister clothing store radio. I've been procrastinating but here is finally a spotlight for Ed sheeran who is constantly entertaining my ears these days and has somewhat inspired me to start songwriting again.
Ed Sheeran has had a pretty underground music life before his breakouts these past few years. He's opened for Nizlopi (the "JCB" song guys) and has worked with quite a few big names. Now he is very well known in England (if anyone hasn't noticed, most these music spotlights are about English artists, i guess I'm trying to inform America about the great talent from there) and he is quickly making his way over to America which is kind of where he started to take off, but now he's back!
What makes Ed sheeran's music catchy and memorable is the mix and blend of soft, folk guitar with some solid RnB beats and even a little bit of rapping, and if you don't want to call it rapping then how about fast singing/talking? Whatever you want to call it, its what makes you remember his name. His song "Lego House" suprises you and displays the fast singing. It is genius because in my opinion it keeps you entertained, makes you listen more closely and mixes up the genre. Its not often you hear indie/folk rappers. Again its like Ellie Goulding and the 'TRON: Legacy' soundtrack a perfect morph of two styles. Aswell as the upbeat tracks, i will say that he knows how to write a love song and give it the feeling it needs, for a great example you can check out "Kiss Me".
Discography
"+ (Plus)"
As he is a recent breakout artist he doesn't have too many albums which is unfortunate but its great because we look forward to more. Although he lacks in albums he does have an extensive collection of EP's, alot of which are self released. With 'Plus' we have a great starting album to display who Ed Sheeran is, although the theme's seem a bit redundant (most are about love and drugs, but wait....aren't they the same thing? hmmm. deep.) it in no way is a boring album. its just easy to pick out what the song is about. It has great singles on like "The A Team" and "Lego House" and includes other great tracks like "Give Me Love", "Kiss Me" and "Small Bump". Like i said above the music is a great variety of sounds and styles and keeps you entertained.
So be sure to go and get some Ed Sheeran, especially if your in the USA, then you can say "yeah i liked him from the beginning" (you look cool like that). He's definitely going to keep getting bigger and is just really enjoyable to listen to. I can't stop listening to him at work and i love playing his songs on guitar. Below is the video "Lego House" which features Rupert Grint and confused me as to who Ed Sheeran really was. I still picture Rupert Grint when i listen to the song.
﻿
Posted by
Josh Wilsher
at
8:58 PM
No comments:
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share to Pinterest
Labels:
ed sheeran ,
give me love ,
kiss me ,
lego house ,
plus ,
rupert grint ,
the a team
Older Posts
Home
Subscribe to:
Posts (Atom)
Blog Archive
▼
2013
(1)
▼
June
(1)
Utah In Comics and TV
►
2012
(6)
►
July
(3)
►
January
(3)
►
2011
(34)
►
December
(7)
►
November
(13)
►
October
(14)
The ones people like the most
Reviews - "Swapnote" and Cartoon Network: Punch Time Explosion
Even though "Swapnote" is a free application on the Nintendo 3DS, i wanted to highlight it really quickly before i review a new g...
The Walking Dead - Graphic Novel vs The TV Series
I'm going to say it straight right now - I like the graphic novel better than the television series. I love the TV series, but the comi...
Judge Dredd: Several reasons to like "The Law"
This past week i went to the movies and i was greatly happy to be able to catch the trailer for "Dredd" on the big screen. As t...
DC Comics "The New 52" - Justice League/Batman #1
Well its been a month now since the first new 52 DC Comics came out and now the #2 issue's are already on their way. If you haven't ...
(no title)
DC vs Marvel Marvel Comics, What Happened?
I'M BACK! and to revamp my blog i decided to bore you all with a big rant about comic...
Music Spotlight: Bloc Party
I've been meaning to do this music Spotlight for a while now because this is a band that i known well, but not well enough, or they hav...
Review: Howl's Moving Castle
Now as your starting to read this you either know how good this movie is or your thinking "its that weird Japanese cartooning, the guy...
Music Spotlight - Ellie Goulding
Even though she is well and widely known in the UK, Ellie Goulding is quickly surfacing in the USA these days, so if you don't know who...
Review: Rayman (original) DSi-Ware
First off, sorry i haven't written anything for yonks of time which is really bad too especially when a site features my blog and i get...
Coldplay Discography
With the release of their new album "Mylo Xyloto" that hits stores next week, 24th October, I decided to take a listen to their o...
There was an error in this gadget
Follow me with your Email
Amazon SearchBox
There was an error in this gadget
Followers
Search This Blog
Loading...
Awesome Inc. template. Powered by
Blogger .