WIN some FAIL some: Marvel Movies | CityofFilms.com
Movie News, Movie Reviews, Movie Trailers, TV News
Home
Movie News
TV News
Trailers
Articles
Reviews
WIN some FAIL some: Marvel Movies
October 1st, 2010 by
Graham McMorrow
Here I am with another installment of WIN some FAIL some.
With at least five Marvel movies announced to be released in the next two years what better time to take a look at Marvel movie wins and fails.
Like any opinion on the internet, I am sure the following doesn’t necessarily represent the views of everyone.
Please leave a comment below, I look forward to hearing your thoughts.
X-Men Origins: Wolverine
(2009)
–
I have a special fondness for
Wolverine
and seeing this EPIC FAIL of an origins movie made my fan girl blood boil. Sitting in a box ready to be moved is my hard cover edition of the comic this should have been based on [ here ].  Even if I ignore the reckless use of source materials and re-imagined origins for most of the characters it’s still teeming with fail!  Firstly the producers of this movie couldn’t even contain a
leak of the unfinished product , so several months before the movie was even released everyone could witness the train wreck.  This little fact aside it seems a little disturbing that they couldn’t even cast the part of
Kayla Silverfox
to someone more suited. Instead they spray paint her down so she’s
a dark tan .  Personally the only redeeming party of this movie was
Ryan Reynolds
as
Deadpool .
Hulk (2003)
– Even with stars like
Jennifer Connelly
and
Eric Bana
this movie was doomed for failure.
Ang Lee
to his credit did try hard to convey what the
Hulk
is with a solid back story drawing many aspects from the comic genre itself. This, however, only hindered the ‘awesome’ that this movie could have been. The 2008 release of
The Incredible Hulk
managed to save most new comers to the Hulk series a lot of hours by simply putting the most important parts of this movie into the first three minutes or so.  For such a drawn out movie there honestly wasn’t enough of the big green guy we all have come to love. No, not the
Green Giant .
Elektra (2005)
–
I find it shocking that this movie was NOT the one hinted at the end of
Daredevil
which itself is worth of mention in the fail section.  On a side note the first Marvel movie to have content at the end of the credits (as far as I know) is tell Daredevil. Moving on Elektra tried really hard to be what Daredevil almost was: Mediocre. Let’s call it like it is people this is a spin off. With a unstable plot filled with villains that seem a little TOO fantastic what more could we come to expect? Only scoring a 10% on the
Tomatometer
it goes to show what the fans think. At least
Jennifer Garner
looks fantastic in the costume [ check it ].
Ghost Rider (2007)
–  I would feel a little bias by this because of my distaste for
Cage
but this time it’s not just fueled by that. The writing in this was so cheesy that
Chester
himself must have overdosed while watching.  I’ve never been so bored with a Marvel movie in my life – I demand action!  Not unlike the previously mentioned Elektra movie this too suffers from terrible logic and plot holes. With a 26% on the
Tomatometer
it’s hard not to at least rent this and make a drinking game out of it.  Watch the epic clip below:
[youtube width=”300″ height=”200″]http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iBVbnJmEtRU[/youtube]
Spiderman 3  (2007) – Ever get the feeling that there’s too much going on at once in one movie?  It might be like kicking a dead horse in the head by now but shit, this was a busy movie.  With
Spider-Man 1
&
2
having such a following how did it go so wrong? I blame the introduction of
Venom .  Don’t get me wrong Venom was the best thing that
Todd McFarlane
ever contributed to Spider-Man as a whole. However the execution of the introduction of one of the most loved villains ever was terrible. If you were able to push past the terrible design of Venom and the idea that
Eric Forman
could have ever been Brock, there was still the distracting entrance of one and a half more villains. Wait what? Yup that’s right
Sandman
and
Hobgoblin
appearances too. The disjointed story was hard for even the most die-hard fans to swallow and now thanks to Raimi’s disaster, Spider-Man is getting a whole new
Disney facelift .  So…yeah, be careful what you wish for.
So now that I’ve calmed down my nerd rage a little, let’s move on to bigger and better things.  After swallowing down all of that FAIL how about a big tall glass of WIN?
Spiderman 2 (2004)
–
Sam Raimi
(the king of B movies) did a fantastic job with this one. Why the second one you may ask? Well it’s because
Peter Parker
has worked past his whiny kid stage and moved onto the hard life of being a super hero. With the introduction of only one villain into the mix it’s easy to follow unlike the aforementioned second sequel.  You know what’s more enjoyable about this movie than our friendly neighborhood Spider-Man?  Tthe cameo appearances; Stan Lee, he always makes an appearance in a Marvel movie and pointing him out is always a lot of fun. Stan isn’t the only face you’ll see though Bruce Campbell and Ted Raimi both have a place in this gem it’s like a movie
Easter egg
bonanza!
Ironman (2008)
–  This movie had typecasting at its best. Who better to play a millionaire playboy than
Downey Jr.
whose track record is almost as spotted as
Tony Stark ‘s. The only thing I was disappointed about was the lack of
Ozzy’s Ironman
in the actual movie itself, so the whole time I spent humming it to the most intense parts of the movie waiting for it to happen. Too much?  With the perfect balance of humour, explosions, and hidden
Avengers
references I wasn’t too upset by the lack of a good song.
The Punisher: Warzone (2008)
– If you take a step back and really look at this version of the
Punisher
you’ll find it draws its story heavily from the comic book storyline itself.  With over the top action that one can only expect from a comic book –
Lexi Alexander
did a fantastic job capturing the element. If this wasn’t enough to be drawn into the Punisher story the use of color made everything feel even more comic esq. In fact this movie yielded one of my favorite scenes of all time:
[youtube width=”300″ height=”200″]http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YF28ceFJJ3A[/youtube]
The Incredible Hulk (2008)
– I will always and forever think of Edward Norton as the Hulk, I was devastated by the sad news about the upcoming Avengers movie [ catch up here ].  It’s hard to distinguish this as a reboot or a sequel as it has a reference and even a clip from the 2003 Hulk. This doesn’t throw me off though because with the origins firmly built up already, the Hulk gets a super villain:
Abomination . It just wouldn’t be a Marvel movie without a super villain.
Kick-Ass (2010)
– This is in fact a
Marvel
movie,
Icon
is a branch of Marvel much like
Vertigo
is to
DC . Kick-Ass at first felt like your teen angst Spiderman–ish can’t get the girl story; however, this quickly changed with the introduction of Hit-girl. Who is
Hit-girl
you may ask? She’s a mega violent epic 10 year old super hero who  puts everyone to shame with her skill. There are a few people that have a problem with her though (isn’t there always) but actress
Chloe Moretz
doesn’t mind as she has something to say about it:
“Younger children shouldn’t see the movie. It’s R rated for a reason. R rated is 18 and over, and if you are 18 and over, then you can take someone younger, but I wouldn’t advise it. I don’t advice it even if you’re 90 years old…”
[Read Full Article
Here ].
Tags:
hulk ,
iron man ,
kick-ass ,
marvel ,
spider-man ,
x-men
Looking for something similar?
X-Men TV Series ‘Hellfire’ in Development at FOX
Tom Holland Is Marvel’s New Spider-Man; Jon Watts to Direct New Movie
Witness the Birth of The Vision in a New AVENGERS: AGE OF ULTRON Clip
Newer
Older
Film Features!
October Movie Guide
Star Wars News
Trailer Roundup
Fun With Short Films
More Movie News
Weekend Preview: Culinary Drama, Political Satire and Zombie Jokes
COF Presents: Our Serious Unboxing & Review of MONSTER MUTT
BAD SANTA 2 Begins Filming in January, Billy Bob Thornton Confirmed to Star
When Do We All Agree this Is Getting Ridiculous? An All-Female Remake of Ocean’s 11 is Happening
Here’s What’s Coming And Going From Netflix in November
A Short and Funny Trailer for THE BROTHERS GRIMSBY Starring Sacha Baron Cohen
THE NIGHT BEFORE Trailer: Christmas With the Bros
THE RIDICULOUS 6 Trailer: Adam Sandler’s First Netflix Movie
Elizabeth Banks Returning to Direct PITCH PERFECT 3
MY TOP 5: Big Movies Still To Come in 2015
Suicide Squad’s Joker Revealed in Full Costume
Weekend Preview: Remember When October Was For Horror Movies?
JESSICA JONES Trailer: A Full Reveal of Netflix’s New Marvel Series
Marty McFly & Doc Brown Visit Jimmy Kimmel, Michael J. Fox Shows off Self-Lacing Nikes
New JOY Trailer Starring Jennifer Lawrence and Bradley Cooper
INFOGRAPHIC: What Back to the Future got right and wrong about 2015
CREED Featurette Showcases the Rebirth of Rocky
The Truth is in the New X-Files Reboot Trailer & Poster
Watch the Final Trailer for STAR WARS: THE FORCE AWAKENS
Book Review: The Art of Regular Show
Book Review – Great Showdowns: The Revenge
Box Office: GOOSEBUMPS Takes Over with a $23.5 Million Opening Weekend
Blue Meets Orange in the New STAR WARS: THE FORCE AWAKENS Poster
Weekend Preview: Viewer Beware, You’re in For a Scare!
DIE HARD 6 Could Be A Prequel Story, Is Actually Happening
X-Men TV Series ‘Hellfire’ in Development at FOX
GODZILLA VS. KONG Roars Into Theaters in 2020
45 YEARS Trailer: Charlotte Rampling Digs Up the Past With a Powerful Performance
Latest Tweet!
Weekend Preview:
#BurntMovie
#OurBrandIsCrisis
#ScoutsVsZombies
-
https://t.co/rvYjuYeX38
https://t.co/9gy46VAlzl
City of Films
is your online resource for all the latest film and TV news in and out of Hollywood. The city launched in 2004 and continues to produce original and very entertaining content for general movie lovers and aficionados alike. We currently work out of Canada and The United States.
Movie Links!
Home
Movie News
TV News
Trailers
Articles
Reviews
About Us
Advertise
Contact Us
Box Office
© 2015 City of Films. All Rights Reserved.
All movie titles, pictures, and trailers are registered trademarks and/or copyrights of their respective holders.