Turning My Head Out: July 2012
Turning My Head Out
My reviews and Opinion on Movies,
music, Comics, video games
and anything else that comes up
Sunday, July 22, 2012
The Dark Knight Rises - "review" (*spoilers*)
AMAZING! Now when i say "Review" i mean that i can sum up the whole movie in a couple of sentences but i wanted to highlight a couple of things that made me go "oh.....". SO! i have to say straight away that this was an amazing movie, it was epic, it was grand and it was a great end to a trilogy. It had great twists and surprises and it was intense!  I think its safe to say this was the Star Wars trilogy for our generation.
The storyline was great and laid out very well and Nolan did a great job in condensing a couple of months into minutes, i was very impressed with that. Also i was impressed by Anne Hathaway's catwoman. I've never been a fan of catwoman and when she was cast i was like "argh really? catwoman?" but i can admit that she did a great job and it was a great addition to the film.
Bane breaking Batman's back was great, not as dramatic as the comic but it was still great to see. It was also great to see Nottingham's Wollaton Hall portrayed as Wayne Manor as i have been to wollaton hall many times and seeing it on the big screen in a big movie was surreal.
Overall it was an amazing movie. Its the super nerd in me that got a bit annoyed at a couple of things.
Damian Wayne
The first thing I'm going to address didn't annoy me or make me go "whaaaat!?" but was more like a "oh..alright whatever" and that is - Talia al Guhl dying. I was hoping she would live but I'm not that bothered. why? i hear you ask. well if you've not been reading 'Batman" comics for the past couple of years you have missed out on a new addition to the Wayne Family and that is -
Damian Wayne.
After Bruce Wayne gets down with Talia, he finds out later that she got pregnant and he has a son! Now his son is a bit psycho and too big for his own boots at times but that's understandable seen as he was raised by assassins and his dad sort of neglected him. Now he is the new Robin and has fought alongside Dick Grayson as Batman and also his Father Bruce Wayne. As i said it didn't bother me but i did think "oh man, no Damian" when Talia took her last breaths in the cab of that truck.
﻿
"Robin"
This is where the fan boy Nerd comes out. First up it was a nice surprise to hear that nod towards the character of robin but overall i feel it was a mistake because of these reasons -
Robin's real name is actually 'Dick Grayson' or it could be Jason Todd or Tim Drake or Damian Wayne as there have been a variety of Robin's. So first thing is that not using a real name like Dick Grayson, was a let down and kind of messed the character up.
Robin is NOT 30 something years old! i read that Nolan was never going to do Robin, let alone hint at him and i was disappointed because of his amazing renditions of characters so far; i had faith that he would do Robin the way he is meant to be - a young 14-18 year old boy like he is in the comics. So it was disappointing that he decided to take the "Chris O'Donnell" route by making "robin" too old. just compare -
Nowhere in the comics have i seen Robin be more than 18 years old. When the young Robin's outgrow the mantle they take on their own alias' like - Nightwing and Red Robin. My idea's for what he could have done to hint at robin - had John Blake's real name as Dick Grayson or Tim Drake. Given John Blake a nickname such as Nightwing etc. Have one of the 15 year olds at the orphanage have the name Dick Grayson or one of the other robin names. There were so many ways that he could have hinted at robin so much better but sadly we got given the "Chris O'Donnell" version. "and there was much rejoicing, yay..................................". Again it was a nice hint but i feel like he took an amazing movie and while not ruining it at all, kind of farted on it a bit at the end. It should have been done properly or just left out. Overall The Dark Knight Rises was an amazing movie and its definitely a movie that has redefined a universe, people, generation and made its mark. Christopher Nolan has done and amazing job. I'm interested to see the next take on The Dark Knight's world. If you haven't seen TDKR yet then you just spoilt alot for yourself and you should go see it!
Thanks for reading!
Posted by
Josh Wilsher
at
12:11 AM
No comments:
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share to Pinterest
Labels:
bane ,
Batman ,
catwoman ,
christian bale ,
christopher nolan ,
damian wayne ,
dick grayson ,
red robin ,
robin ,
talia al guhl ,
the dark knight rises
Monday, July 9, 2012
Judge Dredd: Several reasons to like "The Law"
This past week i went to the movies and i was greatly happy to be able to catch the trailer for "Dredd" on the big screen. As the title and credits faded away i heard sighs and groans of disappointment and unappreciation from other movie goers. Now seen as i live in Utah, i doubt there are many Judge Dredd fans here so i can eliminate the theory that they were groaning fans. After hearing the public i decided to voice my opinion (as usual) on my blog here and tell the world why Judge Dredd is an awesome comic book character but also why we should have an open mind to the new take of Dredd coming out in September. So here are several reasons why i like Judge Dredd﻿ and hopefully it persuades you . 1. One of, if not the first rough, tough and gritty comic .
Judge Dredd hit comic pages in 1977 when he was created by writer John Wagner. He was part of the British comic series 2000AD and from the front cover is automatically seen as a guy who you don't want to get on his bad side. Preparing to write this post i asked my Dad about his Judge Dredd "history" so to speak, because I've only read a handful of collections and seen the Stallone movie. He said what drew him to reading it was that Judge Dredd was tough and as he stated "I am the Law!", he made citizens in the comic and readers know he was Judge, Jury and Executioner. The Judge Dredd stories bought great new material and hard hitting stories to the comic world.
From my experience of reading Judge Dredd comics, even though they aren't as brutal as some comics today they still stand as a pioneer of comics that aren't afraid to show some harshness.
2. He Is The Law!
If you become or are a Dredd fan, you'll pick up quickly that his famous line is "I AM THE LAW!", why? because its fact! Judge Dredd patrols the streets of Mega City One, a futuristic city in 2031 that has several million citizens and is kept in check by 'The Judges'. They are the law enforcement and have been given the authority of Judge, Jury and Executioner. So that means if they arrest a murderer, they can trial them on the spot and decide whether they die or not making Judge Dredd the literal Law on the streets of Mega City One. This line carries on over to his attitude as well, as it makes him a total intimidating bad ass. For those who have read the comics when Dredd comes on the scene (and he's usually the first) the call goes out from the first person to wet themselves - "Oh dok!? its Dredd!"
His attitude is comparable to that of Batman's in that he's hard, intimidating and gets things done whatever the cost but at the same time has a underlying care for those close to him. Above is a strip of the comic "Judge Death Lives!" where Judge Fear of 'The Four Dark Judges' tries to sort of "penance stare" Judge Dredd but in return gets to gaze into something a bit more solid.
3. The Uniform
Original Comic Dredd
Stallone Dredd
Karl Urban Dredd
This was one point because if you genuinely look at the Judges uniforms they look kind of impractical and very colourful, nevertheless, i think we can all admit it is an awesome look and shows the power that Dredd has. Green gloves and boots plowing through criminals, a hefty gold badge, honkin' great shoulder pads - one which has an eagle, and last but not least the black and redlined helmet with a visor, Its an awesome costume and Dredd pulls it off well. The uniform has actually been a big part of the transition into movies, as you can see from the pictures, the uniform has taken a change in the movies, especially the new 2012 movie where it seems they have gone for a rusty bulletproof vest look without massive shoulder pads. One thing that has been done great is the helmet, its like Thor's hammer or Captain America's shield - it has to be done right and i feel like they've done great. Problem was with the Stallone movie that put alot of fans off was that he took of his helmet and didn't wear it too much, which in the comic i don't think that thing ever leaves his head.
4. Details/ Creativeness
One thing that i love about the Judge Dredd comics is the creativeness and details that make mega city one and its Judges entertaining and exciting. First of all the idea of a policeman having all three powers of Judge, jury and executioner is a cool idea, probably not one we'd want in our world but its a brilliant futuristic idea. Next is the Judges 'lawgiver' that has a variety of 6 different ammo to help get the job done. These ammo include - Armour piercing, high explosive, heat seeker, incendiary and ricochet. My favourite has to be the heat seeker as it flies around corners to deliver judgment to the criminals that hide behind walls. I feel like the Stallone movie did a great job in utilizing the different ammo's and I'm excited to see how they do it in the new movie. Just from the trailer it looks like he uses a variety. Another part of its creativity is its profanity, they don't even as much as say "we're going to kick your ass" instead they say 'Butt' and also most times you'll hear characters say "Drokk!", which roughly translates to your usual curse words or "Dok" which i think roughly translates to God . I think there are some more but i can't remember, i like this though because i like to read comics and not have swearing, only exception is The walking dead because it seems people would use language in a situation like that, but then again it can be a bit unnecessary at times.
5. Facts and Numbers Finally if none of the other points have convinced you, here are a few facts and things that will show that Judge Dredd is pretty well known. First off Dredd was rated the 7th greatest comic book character in Empire magazine and 35th in IGN's 100 greatest comic book heroes. still not wow'd? Judge Dredd has had crossover comics battling the disturbing and dreadful Aliens and Predator. Last but not least for all the Batman fans (i mention batman because since nolan's batman movies came out everyone's heads turn when you say batman or joker because it seems to have become a fad). Dredd has even been published by DC comics and also had a series of Crossover's with The Dark Knight himself where they were not only put against each other's foes but also against each other.
So there you have it, some of my thoughts and reasons on why Judge Dredd is a comic and movie worth paying attention to. hope you enjoyed the read and that you take a look into the world of Judge Dredd. Karl Urban (Star Trek) is playing Judge Dredd in the new 2012 Dredd movie and it looks great, if you haven't seen the trailer yet, here it is -
Thanks for reading, tell your friends and spread the Dredd!﻿
Posted by
Josh Wilsher
at
11:59 PM
No comments:
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share to Pinterest
Labels:
2000AD ,
Dredd 3D ,
Drokk ,
John Wagner ,
Judge Death ,
Judge Dredd ,
judgement on gotham ,
karl urban ,
Mega City One ,
stallone
Monday, July 2, 2012
DC vs Marvel Marvel Comics, What Happened?
I'M BACK! and to revamp my blog i decided to bore you all with a big rant about comics. har har!
so you're probably wondering what this post is about - well lately I've really been ranting to my brothers and friends about DC vs Marvel, about their pro's and con's of being comic companies.
I ask the question "Marvel Comics, what happened?" because as this post goes on you'll hear my opinions on what they have done to their 'universe' as opposed to DC comics.
To start off for those who are unfamiliar with comics in general, for DC and Marvel each company has a set world, universe, storyline, whatever you want to call it. The set one is the main universe where comic companies run their regular storyline and usually all of their major comic events each year.
As I've read Marvel and DC comics, I've seen lots of change come to each universe, some that is good some that makes you say "really?....". so I'm going to cover a couple of events that have happened which have (in my opinion) either broken or boosted the comics.
Marvel
As you'll see in the world today, Marvel is a very public and well known comic company especially with trademark characters like Spiderman, Wolverine and The Hulk. Now we have the Avengers to thank for an outstanding introduction into more of the marvel universe. Now even though The marvel Cinematic universe (as its been named) is thriving with great interpretations of favourite heroes and amazing story lines with twist and thrills; i can't help but notice that Marvel's comics have taken a bit of a beating and have the become the abandoned child of their franchise. It feels like they aren't trying as hard on their comics as they were and that the only way to keep selling is with shock value. here are a couple of events that i wanted to cover -
Civil War I still have to get this for my comic library but this comic event for me was so amazing but at the same time ruined the marvel universe. Civil War is about the battle between what's right and what's fair. The American Government have partnered with Tony Stark/Iron Man to pass the 'Superhuman registration act' which makes it mandatory for all super heroes and villains to register their secret identity with the government and receive special training to work with the government. while Stark thinks this is a great idea, Captain America/Steve Rogers is surprisingly the one who opposes the government he stands for, saying that it is unfair to force them to reveal identities. A series of events unfold and it climaxes to the point where Captain America dies.
First off - how Captain America dies is pretty pathetic, he gets shot. i know he's handcuffed and what not but he's fought off countless aliens and armies with his hands behind his back. Another thing was after the events of Civil War, spiderman's universe got flipped around by some magical man, and SHIELD kind of became a dictatorship to superheroes. it was an amazing storyline and the events that happened during the story were great, they were enjoyable but it left the marvel universe in ruins and i felt like Marvel didn't do a good job in picking up the pieces.
Ultimatum﻿
Ultimatum was set in Marvel's "Ultimate" universe and was a big event before marvel rebooted Ultimate Spiderman, Ultimate Iron Man etc into 'Ultimate Comics: Spiderman' 'Ultimate Comics: Iron Man'. Also you should know the Avengers are called "The Ultimates" in this universe.
The Story of Ultimatum was that Magneto was steaming angry with the death of his daughter The Scarlet Witch, so in his anger he flipped the magnetic poles of the earth causing a tidal wave to drown New York City and other anomalies to happen over the globe. with what few superheroes are left, they band together to find magneto and bring him to justice for what he has done.
This event was like Civil War in that it was an amazing story to read and i enjoyed it but at the end it was in ruins, they were lazy in picking up the pieces and even though it was shocking and exciting, they killed off too many characters and unlike DC comics, Marvel can't bring their heroes back to life with style. First of here is a "small" list of people that died - Yellowjacket/Antman, Dr Strange, The Blob, Magneto, Wolverine, Dr Doom, Daredevil, Professor X, Nightcrawler, Cyclops, Beast and Archangel. Then apart from that list we see heroes who seem to go MIA - Thor, Spiderman, Dr strange (even though he dies, someone comes out a light and gets him..dunno). after being left in confusion, i read that marvel released what they called "Requiem" a series of comics covering only spiderman, xmen and fantastic four after the events of Ultimatum. Then in the new "Ultimate Comics:......."  the events of Ultimatum are only mentioned like twice and nothing more is explained. That really annoyed me.....
Other things with Marvel comics is that in the Ultimate Comics: Spiderman, Peter Parker is dead and its now a black Mexican kid filling the role as spiderman in a black and red suit. In my opinion Peter Parker should always be spiderman and if you want to bring in another spiderman, make a storyline like Spiderman 2099 or just create another alternate universe but in the main and ultimate universe's leave it as Peter Parker. Also we see that marvel has used its Shock horror factor and announced the first Homosexual wedding in a comic - this annoys me because i don't care, i really don't care about a fictional characters sexual preference, when i read comics i want action, explosions, twists in a story, but i don't want stupid relationships, even between men and women its boring. This is an event where you can see marvel is running out of idea's and Aren't trying to keep their original characters exciting.
As i look back at what I've just written you probably think I'm a homophobic racist but I'm not, i just don't care for my comics to be Politically correct, let alone even include things about what is happening in the world, i want to read fiction, and that means i don't want current world issues, i read comics to escape the issues of the world, doesn't everyone? So overall breathtaking job on your movies and TV shows Marvel but hire some better writers for your comics.
Other great marvel reads - Wolverine: Old Man Logan, Civil War: Iron Man/Spiderman/Wolverine, Ultimate Spiderman Series, Iron Man: Extremis.
DC Comics
DC has had an amazing past year and has successfully rebooted their main universe and other heroes. With Geoff Johns (the Steven Moffat of Comics) on board, they have released some of the best comic events and done a good job in picking up the pieces in the aftermath. I feel like DC has made a couple of good movies ("amazing" for the batman trilogy) and still put the same effort into their comics, after all we wouldn't have the movies without the comics. if you want to know more about the New 52 Reboot you can read my review of Justice League #1 and Batman #1
here .
Here are some events that have shown the epicocity (is that a word or am i just quoting tobuscus?) of DC's events  -
Blackest Night
About 2 years ago Green Lantern was bought to the front of the DC franchise when we saw him lead the DC universe against the powers of darkness in Blackest Night. In this comic event Nekron the black lantern of death rises to take over the living and wipe out all of the other lanterns as well as life itself. Teaming up with the other lanterns, Hal Jordan fights to keep the light of the lanterns burning. It was a genius idea introducing more Lanterns and using the colour spectrum with emotions. overall it seem like DC sat down to brainstorm and was like "lets do a story about the powers of the colours of a mood ring" so simple but so genius. In this event DC started doing some epic 2 page pictures that made your enthusiasm for the story grow. Following the aftermath of Blackest Night came the event 'Brightest Day' which was nothing like Blackest Night but was still enjoyable and explained further as to why certain heroes and villains were resurrected at the end of Blackest Night.
Flashpoint
I wanted to highlight this comic event because it is the event that ushered in The New 52. Its the event that showed that you can reboot your comics nicely without killing characters and still having it make sense. Flashpoint follows the Flash as he wakes up in an alternate universe where Thomas Wayne (Bruce Wayne's dad) is Batman, Wonder Woman and Aquaman are at war and Superman was captured as a child and put into a government project. It was a good story with a nice twist and this next part, the conclusion and cross into the new 52 I'm going to let wikipedia explain haha -
Traveling back in time, Barry merges with his younger counterpart during the attempt to stop Thawne. While traveling through time, Barry realizes he can see three different timelines — DC,
Vertigo , and
Wildstorm . A mysterious hooded figure, later identified as "Pandora", tells him that the world was split into three to weaken them for an impending threat, and must now be reunited to combat it. The DC, Vertigo, and Wildstorm universes are then merged, creating
a brand new DC Universe . Barry then wakes up in a similar manner to the beginning of Flashpoint. Believing that everything is over, Barry remembers Thomas' letter and gives it to Bruce, who is still the Batman in this timeline. Bruce is deeply touched by his father's sacrifice to ensure his own life, and cries, and is grateful to Barry for informing him of the events that transpired before the timeline was reset ﻿.
Now we have the all New 52 DC comics which so far have been great and i've really enjoyed reading.
Night Of the Owls
I consider this the first of the new 52 and an important DC story arc/event. All throughout Gotham's history there has been an underground council with an assassin known as the court of owls. They have watched over Gotham and kept it running the way they want it. Now they are after the dark knight who is turning Gotham in a direction they aren't happy with. Night of the Owls is a great show of teamwork as it included Robin, Nightwing, Red Robin, Batgirl, Batwoman, Batwing, and other characters of the Batman family each heeding to the call of Alfred after the court of owls sends a city wide order to assassinate Gotham officials. After being tortured mentally and physically by the court Batman becomes stronger and better to take down the court.  I've been subscribing to Batman comics and the lead up to this event has been great and then the execution of the main event was epic!
﻿
Other things with DC are that this year they announced that Green Lantern (not a real green lantern from OA, just some magical crap) Alan Scott was gay, this was a disappointment because it seemed like DC were just trying to compete with Marvel over the whole gay thing. same opinion on that, don't care, don't want it in my comics. Also they have made Starfire look and act like a sleaze, which i know she's looked a bit raunchy at times but don't we all picture her as the lovable and naive teen titan? I haven't got much to say about DC, they seem to know how to keep their character exciting and don't feel the need to change the original character. Lets just say if DC can "kill off" Batman in 'Final Crisis' and bring him back in a smart way then they can do anything and we don't have to worry.
Other great DC Comics reads - Final Crisis, Green Lantern: Rebirth, Flash: Rebirth, The Flash: Dastardly Death of the Rogues (this one shows flash in his prime), SupermanBatman series, Batman: Hush.
If you have any questions about a comic you want to get or recommendations for or from me, feel free to email me or leave a comment. There are also other great comics not published my Marvel and DC. Haven't forgot about The Walking Dead!
Thanks for Reading!
﻿
Posted by
Josh Wilsher
at
7:37 PM
No comments:
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share to Pinterest
Labels:
aquaman ,
Batman ,
cyborg ,
DC Comics ,
Flash ,
hawkeye ,
Justice League ,
magneto ,
nightwing ,
the amazing spiderman ,
the avengers ,
Thor
Newer Posts
Older Posts
Home
Subscribe to:
Posts (Atom)
Blog Archive
►
2013
(1)
►
June
(1)
▼
2012
(6)
▼
July
(3)
The Dark Knight Rises - "review" (*spoilers*)
Judge Dredd: Several reasons to like "The Law"
DC vs Marvel
Marvel Comics, What Happened?
I'M BAC...
►
January
(3)
►
2011
(34)
►
December
(7)
►
November
(13)
►
October
(14)
The ones people like the most
Reviews - "Swapnote" and Cartoon Network: Punch Time Explosion
Even though "Swapnote" is a free application on the Nintendo 3DS, i wanted to highlight it really quickly before i review a new g...
The Walking Dead - Graphic Novel vs The TV Series
I'm going to say it straight right now - I like the graphic novel better than the television series. I love the TV series, but the comi...
Judge Dredd: Several reasons to like "The Law"
This past week i went to the movies and i was greatly happy to be able to catch the trailer for "Dredd" on the big screen. As t...
DC Comics "The New 52" - Justice League/Batman #1
Well its been a month now since the first new 52 DC Comics came out and now the #2 issue's are already on their way. If you haven't ...
(no title)
DC vs Marvel Marvel Comics, What Happened?
I'M BACK! and to revamp my blog i decided to bore you all with a big rant about comic...
Music Spotlight: Bloc Party
I've been meaning to do this music Spotlight for a while now because this is a band that i known well, but not well enough, or they hav...
Review: Howl's Moving Castle
Now as your starting to read this you either know how good this movie is or your thinking "its that weird Japanese cartooning, the guy...
Music Spotlight - Ellie Goulding
Even though she is well and widely known in the UK, Ellie Goulding is quickly surfacing in the USA these days, so if you don't know who...
Review: Rayman (original) DSi-Ware
First off, sorry i haven't written anything for yonks of time which is really bad too especially when a site features my blog and i get...
Coldplay Discography
With the release of their new album "Mylo Xyloto" that hits stores next week, 24th October, I decided to take a listen to their o...
There was an error in this gadget
Follow me with your Email
Amazon SearchBox
There was an error in this gadget
Followers
Search This Blog
Loading...
Awesome Inc. template. Powered by
Blogger .