Lesbian | Ty Templeton's ART LAND!!
Ty Templeton's ART LAND!!
Skip to content
Home **Bun Toons** All About Ty About Ask a Question… Internet Entries Recent Work Request for Interviews Request for Work Videos Credits APPEARANCES 2015 CLASSES Cover Gallery Dexter by Ty HOLMES INC. STIG’S INFERNO Ty’s Lists!
Tag Archives:
Lesbian
Because I Care Bun Toons! YAY!
Posted on
September 7, 2013
|
16 comments
I gave at the office, AND I give online.
The internet is usually a quiet place where people are calm and don’t overreact to things.  But this week, the comic fans on the web are up in arms about not getting something they want.  Since that never happens, I had no choice but to roll up my sleeves and pitch in…
It’s not missionary work, but it’s just as satisfying.
Ty the Guy OUT!
For your fabulous Bonus, I give you the LAST time Batwoman was heading for the altar (and didn’t make it).
Of course, the homosexual subtext was completely different back in the fifties.  I suppose we can blame Eisenhower.
—————————————————————————————————
For last week’s equally SEXUALLY charged Bun Toons, click above
For the Bun Toon archive, a hotbed of inter-gender activity, click the smutty rabbit above.
Share this: Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window) Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window) Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window) Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window) Like this: Like
Loading...
16 Comments
Posted in
bun toons ,
Bunny Funnies ,
Ty Toons
Tagged
Batman ,
Batwoman ,
Batwoman marriage ,
Ben Affleck ,
controversy ,
DC Comics ,
gay marriage ,
Lesbian ,
LGBTQ ,
Maggie Sawyer ,
Marriage ,
marriage equality ,
superhero movies
THE SEVEN MOST MISGUIDED ATTEMPTS AT GAY CHARACTERS IN COMICS.
Posted on
September 1, 2010
|
36 comments
A recent spate of internet chatter involving something
Darwyn Cooke
said about making Batwoman gay got me thinking about homosexual comic characters in general.   Cooke was worried that
DC
was being exploitative of Batwoman’s lesbianism, rather than sensitive and intelligent about it –  something he’s concluded without reading the actual
Detective Comic
series, I’ll wager, or he’d know it’s being done quite well.  But I’ll give Darwyn the benefit of the doubt, as the pre-release Batwoman hype seemed more aimed at titillation than acceptance, and it’s not like comics haven’t had an appalling track record when creating gay characters.
You can just see the tolerance and acceptance in this image.
LGBT people were routinely played as odd, creepy or predatory in our biz, if they were even mentioned at all…check out Jim Shooter’s infamous Bruce-Banner-Nearly-Raped-in-the-Shower scene in the Rampaging Hulk to get a typical view of the subject from the Seventies.
And if they weren’t sinful weirdoes, they ended up dead from AIDS or being killed off-panel unceremoniously, because, well… no one will miss them.  Count how many X-Men have come out over the years, and now count up how many of them are dead.  The numbers don’t add up well.
Even when strong, positive gay characters showed up, there was still something “off” about ‘em.  Spider-Man’s cop friend Jean DeWolff was brusque and unpleasant (and has since been killed off). The Flash’s gay pal,
Pied Piper,
(written excellently by
Mark Waid ) was an evil Rogue named after
a character who lured young children away
from their parents by blowing on something.  (Flash Rogues with more problematic names if they’d popped out of the closet:
“the Top” ,
“the Rainbow Raider”
and
“the Golden Glider” .…)
It’s been a long road to get to where
Batwoman ,
Midnighter ,
Rene Montoya ,
Apollo ,
Anole ,
Obsidian , and
John Constantine
can be out and still be decent characters with more or less regular lives, and who are not portrayed as creepy, or bad or sinful.  Well, except for Constantine, but that’s how we like him.  Along that road, there have been bumps and mistakes — Attempts to be inclusive that ended up making LGBT folk seem odder to mainstream readers.  And of course,  wherever there is awful comics…I’ll be there to share them with you….
Here now–
THE SEVEN MOST MISGUIDED ATTEMPTS AT GAY CHARACTERS IN COMICS.
7)  Sebastian O
Created by writer
Grant Morrison
in 1993.  (Grant shows up again later in this list so keep an eye peeled).  I believe he’s the first gay character to have his own comic series from a mainstream American publisher ( Vertigo ), if you don’t count characters ret-conned into their GBLT status (such as
DC’s Shade the Changing Man/Woman ).
Sebastian O is set in a steampunk version of Victorian England, wherein Sebastian is more or less a revenge-killer version of
Oscar Wilde , only more gay…Oh sure, his mission is to hunt down and slay someone who got him tossed unjustly into prison (mostly for writing a “sinful” book), but it’s hard to be on O’s side when he’s friends with an admitted (and unrepentant) child molester, and when he murders innocent people, and feeds their bodies to his cat if it suits his needs.  There’s too much overt pederasty through the story for it to be helpful to anyone’s understanding of a gay lifestyle, and I’m not sure a homicidal Wilde is even the best place to start…
It IS a gun in my pocket, but I'm still glad to see you.
Here’s the strange part:  The series is actually readable, and Mr. O is easily the least annoying character on this list.
6)  Tasmanian Devil
Because there are no bears in Australia.
Taz was the first openly homosexual member of the Justice League, and it sure made him into a household name in the world of comics, didn’t it?  After coming out, the Devil was continuously played as a background character (rarely with even a single line of dialog), who shows up to be beaten senseless during REALLY BIG crossover events, and that’s about it.  You can find him buried in rubble on page eight in any book with the word CRISIS in the title.
After his second class status in the Justice League went nowhere, he was relegated to the astoundingly forgettable
GLOBAL GUARDIANS,
where he did nothing there either.  Eventually he’s killed and turned into a throw rug by Prometheus in the recent miniseries, JUSTICE LEAGUE: CRY FOR JUSTICE.
It’s not like Taz was ever a good character to begin with, but if they were going to make him gay, for god’s sake, don’t make him SO F***ING LAME!
5)  Monsieur Mallah and the Brain.
Ah...l'amour.
C'est fou!
A talking gorilla and a disembodied jar of goo, in love.
Dateline: Early Doom Patrol.  The Brain (when he was a regular mad scientist with a body) did some mad science-y experiments on a regular mountain gorilla until the ape became a simian genius with the power to speak French, and the desire to do evil.  Then the scientist lost his body in some sort of science-y accident and ended up a brain in a jar.  You’d think that would make this pair weird enough…
But during Grant Morrison’s 80s run of the
DOOM PATROL , the Brain was put into one of the spare robot bodies belonging to Doom Patrol member ROBOTMAN and the fun began.  As soon as he had arms and legs (and other body parts), Brain tells Mallah that he has been secretly in cross-species love with the furry beastie for years, but couldn’t confess it when he was just squishy lumps of tube stuff.   Mallah sends his bestial gay love right back at Brain, and they move in for the weirdest kiss in Western fiction… until … well, you’ll just have to read it to believe it…
…yup.  The Robotman body self destructs the moment the monkey plants a smacker on the android’s lips, as it simply can’t exist in a world that odd.  It sure brought home the idea that homosexuals are JUST like you and me.  A great leap forward for tolerance.
(NOTE:  The characters have since been revived and killed again, this time Mallah being beaten to death with Brain as the weapon.  They always die together, though…so it’s KINDA romantic.)
4) Freedom Ring:
Quick Quiz:
Whose costume is more macho?
Though at first glance, the character of
Curtis Doyle’s FREEDOM RING
(first appearing in
Robert Kirkman’s
“Master of the Ring” 5 part story arc in Marvel Team-Up a few years back) seemed like a decent character to make into a gay-positive super-hero.  He’s well adjusted, intelligent and casually “out” about his lifestyle, when he acquires a bit of the Cosmic Cube in the form of a ring, and is ready to save the world as essentially Marvel’s version of a Green Lantern.
But then this happens.
It could have gone well, except Curtis is killed dead,  penetrated by many phallic looking “things” (tendrils, spikes?), shooting out from a bad guy’s body (another subtle one there, guys) exactly one month to the day after he was being promoted as Marvel’s new Gay Superhero by Joe Quesada in interviews.  The story in which he was killed
had already been written and drawn when Quesada felt the need to do the media promotion
thing.  It’s hard to believe they weren’t aware of the F*CK YOU involved when they quickly impale Freedom Ring dead, in one of the worst bait-and-switch messages since
Bill Jemas’ MARVILLE
was described as “readable”.   Author Kirkman now claims he “didn’t mean it” to be so bluntly homophobic, it just sort of turned out that way…
3)  The Rawhide Kid
I hear guns can be metaphors for something.
Probably the worst dialog for any gay character in comics belongs to Rawhide Kid….perhaps for any straight character as well.
Ha ha!
It's funny, see?
The “Kid”
had been a Marvel Western mainstay since the late fifties, usually taking third place behind
Kid Colt: Outlaw , and the
Two-Gun Kid
in popularity.  But, in 2003, editor
Axel Alonzo
and writer
Ron Zimmerman
took this somewhat outdated Atlas era gunfighter and made him into a prancing joke, supposedly to introduce more gay-positive characters into the Marvel world.  For a book about straight shootin’, it’s ironic how MUCH THEY MISSED THEIR TARGET.
And if he gets bored, he's scratch your eyes out.
The mini-series “RAWHIDE KID:  SLAP LEATHER” (beautifully drawn by the legendary
John Severin ) is an aimless generic plot (about saving a rancher  from evil land developers or something) that has no reason for existence, beyond fruity double entendres and an obsession with keeping one’s leather gear looking fabulous. It’s as though Zimmerman’s entire knowledge of homosexuality came from a screening of
THE BIRDCAGE , and then he checked with
a Westboro Baptist minister
to ensure he was writing a script “faggy” enough to be absurdly hateful.
Guess what?  It was.
Hey folks.
Do you get it?
It's like it's a gun, or maybe it's a dick.
It's all too subtle for me.
2)  Northstar
What DIDN’T Marvel handle badly about this character’s history?  Let us count the ways…
1)
John Byrne
created him to be Marvel’s first openly homosexual character, but the editors refused to let Northstar’s orientation be discussed for more than ten years- until issue #106 of
ALPHA FLIGHT .
Northstar
had been gay since Alpha Flight #1.
The world of Canadian Superheroes gets all "real".
2)   A few years before he was officially “out”, he got a mysterious illness that was very AIDS-like, and he was only cured of it when…
3)  …It was revealed that he was actually a ….I swear to god….FAIRY. The kind with little fly wings, you know…like Tinkerbell?  Being part fairy gave him some sort of immunity in his blood or something, I don’t remember the details, only that I threw my copy across the room when I read it.
4)  Bless his heart, Northstar adopts a baby girl he finds in a dumpster, but the kid dies of AIDS before long.  AIDS and Fairies, folks, that’s what being gay in the Marvel Universe is all about.
5)   He’s never had a date, or a romantic moment in his entire publishing history so far as I know, and his orientation barely comes up in his own mini-series.  For Marvel’s first “gay” character, he’s sure not very gay.  But at least he’s currently alive (though Wolverine DID kill him once).  That’s fairly rare for olde-tyme homosexuals in the funny books…
Don't forget,
he's a professional skier, so he goes "swish" whenever he goes down.
and finally…
1)  Extraño
Like a fine wine, this drawing only gets better with age.
Created by
Steve Englehart
and
Joe Staton
in the
DC MILLENIUM
mini-series of the late 80s, and later spun-off into
THE NEW GUARDIANS
super-hero team with fellow token character
“Pieface” , the Inuit mechanic from Silver Age Green Lantern comics…(clearly the Spirit’s
EBONY WHITE
was busy.)
Extraño is the Spanish word for “strange” or “queer”, so you know you’re in for thoughtful writing from the get-go.  This caricature of a flaming queen was the first openly gay super-hero in DC history (and I think in comics generally), and boy-howdy was he a sensitive portrayal.  First there’s his whole “look”: a billowy purple cape, bling that would embarrass Flavor Flav, thigh-high leather pirate boots (rolled down), and a goofy mustache that would someday inspire Prince.  Oh, and he’s  constantly referring to himself as “Auntie”.  I think the editors were going for gay-positive but they clearly had no idea what that was.   I guess they figured a flamboyant, hair-obsessed Hispanic with magic powers would simply write itself.   He was kind of a Dr. Strange character that could levitate and do mystical shit, but that was never what he was about.  It was the gayness.  The gay clothes, the gay attitude, the ASTOUNDINGLY large blow-dried ‘do… Aaaand, of course, because he was, you know…GAY…, he’s trying to kill himself when we first meet him (stopped by the Flash) aaaand he eventually had to contract AIDS, which he got from a possibly-gay vampire called
Hemo-Goblin .  Though after he got himself the AIDS, he never seemed to ever suffer from it in any way…and kind of forgot he had it.
I guess the suicide attempt was Englehart’s attempt at insight, but it came off as a patronizing cliché, even in the 80s.
This is the least flamboyant image I could find of this guy.
BONUS POINTS:  Since Extraño wasn’t just an collection of homosexual stereotypes, but also Hispanic stereotypes, they managed to knock down two minorities in one go.
Of course, readers got tired of this crap, and DC recently killed him in a big explosion that dropped most of a house on his ass.
COMING SOON:
The Seven BEST Gay characters in Comics…because the glass is finally half full.
Ty the Guy OUT!
Here now, your comic book moment of zen:
Share this: Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window) Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window) Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window) Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window) Like this: Like
Loading...
36 Comments
Posted in
Ty's Top
Tagged
alpha flight ,
Axel Alonzo ,
Batwoman ,
Darwyn Cooke ,
Extraño ,
Freedom Ring ,
Gay ,
Gay Comics ,
gay-positive ,
Grant Morrison ,
Jim Shooter ,
Joe Staton ,
John Byrne ,
Kirkman ,
Lesbian ,
LGBT ,
Monsieur Mallah ,
Northstar ,
Pied Piper ,
Rawhide Kid ,
Ron Zimmerman ,
Sebastian O ,
Steve Englehart ,
Tasmanian Devil ,
the Brain ,
The New Guardians
Follow me on Twitter!
Subscribe:
Enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Join 330 other followers
Ty Templeton’s ART LAND!   RSS - Posts
Categories Categories
Select Category
00 Stig's Inferno
American Splendor
Appearances
April 1
art for sale
Art Spiegelman
Awards
Batman
Big Max
Bigg Time
Bootcamp Comics
Breaking into Comics
Bun Toon
bun toons
Bunny Funnies
Canadian Superheroes
charity
Christmas
Christmas Bunny
Comic Book Art
Comic Book Bootcamp
Comic Book Creators
Comic Book Moment of Zen
Comics
Comics in other forms
Comics that Matter
Commissions
Con Sketches
Contests
Convention Stories
Conventions
Corrections
countdown
Credits
Dark Claw Adventures
DC Comic’s Shoptalk
DC Comics
Dead Celebrity Jokes
Dexter: The Early Cuts
Easter
eBay listings for Ty Templeton
Elongated Man
Elseworlds Special
Eulogy
Fit to Print
Flashbacks
Follow-Up
Four Panels
Free Comic Book Day
GLXmas Special
Hallowe’en
Halloween
Halloween ComicFest
Harvey Pekar
Hero Initiative
Heroes of the North
Holmes Inc
Hoverboy Fridays
Interviews
Introduction
It Gets Better
JLA
Joe Shuster Awards
Justice League
Justice League Unlimited Covers
Koffler Centre of the Arts
Last Round-Up
Last Week in Art Land
Last Week on the ‘net
LGBTQ
Links
Mad Dog
Mad Magazine
Marvel Comics
Maus
Mike Parobeck
Moonstone Books
Mouse Rat
Movie Review
Mr. Comics
music
Nepotism Thursdays
NEW COMIC WEEKEND
New Comics Day
New Pages
New Work
Northern Guard
On Television
On the 'Net
On the Couch
Parks and Recreation
Planet of the Apes
Powdered Toast Man Special
Released this week
RePost
Reviews
Saturday Morning Cartoons
Scandals
Secret Origins
Spider-Man
Spider-Man/Human Torch
Star Trek
Stig's Inferno
Superfriends
Superman
Templetoons
The Comic Book Lounge & Gallery
The Crimson Arrow
The Joe Shuster Awards
The New Wave
The Simpsons
top five
Toronto Cartoonists Workshop
Toronto Cartoonists Workshops
Tributes
Trouble
True Life Tales
Tumblr
Twitter
Ty Templeton
Ty Templeton’s Comic Book Bootcamp
Ty Toons
Ty's Top
Ty’s Lists
Uncategorized
Unseen artwork
Videos
What the %@&*!
WildC.A.T.S. Adventures
Wonder Woman
Workshops
X-Men
Archives
Archives
Select Month
October 2015
September 2015
August 2015
July 2015
June 2015
May 2015
April 2015
March 2015
February 2015
January 2015
December 2014
November 2014
October 2014
September 2014
August 2014
July 2014
June 2014
May 2014
April 2014
March 2014
February 2014
January 2014
December 2013
November 2013
October 2013
September 2013
August 2013
July 2013
June 2013
May 2013
April 2013
March 2013
February 2013
January 2013
December 2012
November 2012
October 2012
September 2012
August 2012
July 2012
June 2012
May 2012
April 2012
March 2012
February 2012
January 2012
December 2011
November 2011
October 2011
September 2011
August 2011
July 2011
June 2011
May 2011
April 2011
March 2011
February 2011
January 2011
December 2010
November 2010
October 2010
September 2010
August 2010
July 2010
June 2010
May 2010
April 2010
March 2010
February 2010
January 2010
December 2009
November 2009
October 2009
September 2009
Blog at WordPress.com .
The Coraline Theme .
Ty Templeton's ART LAND!!
Create a free website or blog at WordPress.com .
The Coraline Theme .
Follow
Follow “Ty Templeton's ART LAND!!”
Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.
Join 330 other followers
Build a website with WordPress.com
Send to Email Address
Your Name
Your Email Address
Cancel
Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
%d
bloggers like this:
Add your thoughts here... (optional)
Post to
Cancel