Rachel Pollack Interviewed by Mary K. Greer | Mary K. Greer's Tarot Blog
Mary K. Greer's Tarot Blog
"Tarot helps you meet whatever comes in the best possible way."
Home
BIO
EVENTS
PUBLICATIONS
EMAIL
GD Glossary
Subscribe to feed
Rachel Pollack Interviewed by Mary K. Greer
June 13, 2011 in
Interviews & Conversations
Rachel Pollack
is one of the organizers and featured presenters at the
Omega Institute Tarot Conference
on July 29-31st. Rachel is best known in the Tarot world for her landmark book,
Seventy-Eight Degrees of Wisdom , which has been followed up by more than a dozen tarot works including a tarot deck and the recent book,
Tarot Wisdom . She is also a well regarded fiction writer, having received many honors and awards, among them the famed Arthur C. Clarke Award for Science Fiction and the World Fantasy Award. Currently, she teaches in the MFA Creative Writing Program at
Goddard College . Among comic book aficionados she is best known for her run of issues 64-87 on the comic book
Doom Patrol , on
DC Comics ‘
Vertigo
imprint. Rachel is a member of the American Tarot Association, the International Tarot Society, and the Tarot Guild of Australia and presents Tarot workshops around the world.
Following the Conference, Rachel and I will be teaching a Five-Day Workshop on
The Art of Becoming a Great Tarot Reader , July 31 to August 5th. Watch a video of Rachel discussing teaching tarot at Omega
here .
The picture on the right shows Rachel wearing a mask created by Marlene Boaz (go, girl!). It’s The Speaker of Birds from Rachel’s
Shining Tribe Tarot .
Mary: As a novelist, comic book and short story writer, and poet you are very involved with story. How does story relate to the tarot and how do you think tarot readers can benefit from knowing something about story?
Rachel : There is a famous Chasidic proverb that says “God created humans because God loves stories.”  Story allows us to enter the cards and become part of them in a way unlike anything else, not study, not meditation.  Story seems to me the basis of readings, with the querent the hero, the question the springboard of the plot, and the cards in their places the action.  It can often help Tarot readers to ask the querent story questions, such as the attitude of the figure in the picture, where he or she might be going, why a figure is weeping, and so on.  And we begin to go deeply into the cards, in a very personal way, when we see great stories of mythology or literature in the Tarot.  I’m sure the original designers never thought of Rapunzel when they created the Tower and other cards, and yet it works perfectly, and gives the cards more meaning.
Mary: You’ve been doing tarot for over 40 years. What keeps it alive and fresh for you after all this time?
Rachel : I have never walled Tarot off into its own corner.  To me, Tarot is the world, so as I learn more about anything I think of how it can apply to Tarot.  For instance, just yesterday I read an intriguing idea about the story in Genesis that God took a rib from Adam and made Eve.  At first glance, this seems very sexist, and has been used  to describe women as inferior.  But the writer I was reading looked at the fact that chimpanzees have 13 ribs and humans have 12.  Thus the creation of woman was the evolutionary change from ape to human.  Women can be said to introduce human consciousness.  How does this affect Tarot?  Well, for one thing we find Adam and Eve in the Rider version of the Lovers, so now we can consider new and interesting points about that card.  But it also opens up the relationship between the male and female cards, such as the Magician and the High Priestess, or the Empress and the Emperor.  The Tarot and has led me to spiritual wisdom, inspired stories and poems, and brought truly wonderful people into my life.  I’m currently writing my 33rd book (not all about Tarot, but probably half of them), inspired in part by the classic works of Eden Gray, who introduced so many of us to Tarot in the late 60s and early 70s.  In the introduction I say this about Tarot: “The only thing I can tell you for sure is that you will never come to the end of it.”
Mary: You created the
Shining Tribe Tarot
deck. Do you feel fated to have done so? What were the biggest lessons you learned, and is there something a tarot reader can gain by creating a deck that they won’t get any other way?
Rachel : All my work with Tarot seems fated in a way.  In that same introduction I write that people ask me how I discovered Tarot, but it feels more like Tarot discovered me.  I began to create my own deck while writing
The New Tarot , which looked at some seventy-five decks created in the 70s and 80s.  It felt like the right thing to do.  I was also reading about early human spirituality, and traveling to prehistoric caves and stone circles, and ancient temples for my book “The Body of the Goddess,” on the origins of religion in nature and the human body.  So creating a deck grounded in nature and tribal and prehistoric art happened naturally.  Fate, you could say.  Getting permission to go into Lascaux cave was one of the great experiences of my life, and deeply affected my relationship to images in general and the Tarot in particular.
When you create your own deck you bond with the cards in a very deep way.  They become an extension of you, and you of them, a living relationship.  At the same time, my whole way of teaching and experiencing Tarot runs against any idea that I own the meanings of the cards.  I love it when people show me new meanings.  I did a Shining Tribe workshop this past year, and a woman came who loved the cards, never used any others, but had never had my book about them.  She made up all her own meanings, and they were completely different than mine. I think she was nervous I would be angry, but I loved it.  I could see the truth of everything she said.  Maybe everyone should find a deck they know nothing about but like, work with the cards, do readings, draw or tell stories with them until we really know them, and then publish a book about them, all without ever reading the creator’s interpretations.
See interviews with other presenters:
Ellen Lorenzi-Prince
James Wells
Marcus Katz
Mary Greer
Share this: Share Print Email Facebook Reddit Google Twitter LinkedIn Like this: Like
Loading...
Related
About
Click
HERE
to subscribe to Mary K. Greer's Tarot Blog by Email
≈◊≈◊≈◊≈◊≈
Mary K. Greer has made tarot her life work. Check here for reports of goings-on in the world of tarot and cartomancy, articles on the history and practice of tarot, and materials on other cartomancy decks. Sorry, I no longer write reviews.
Contact me
HERE.
© 2007-2013, Mary K. Greer
All material on this site is copyrighted. If you use anything, be sure to include my name and a link back to this site. Thank you.
Donate any amount to keep this ad-free blog growing.
Top Posts What Every Newbie Tarot Reader Should Know
What every newbie tarot reader should know about the history and myths of tarot
Three-Card Spreads: The Essentials
Carl Jung and Tarot
Mlle. Lenormand, the most famous card reader of all time
TV & Movie Tarot Watch List
Yes-No Advice Oracle
Origins of Cartomancy (Playing Card Divination)
Reading the Marseilles Tarot
Reading the Story in a Picture - Doré's Saltimbanques
ALL POSTS
Book/Story/Poetry Reports
(53)
Classes & Webinars
(2)
For Beginners
(7)
Golden Dawn Tarot
(8)
Interviews & Conversations
(19)
Knitted Tarot Bags
(5)
Lenormand
(15)
Major Arcana
(16)
Minor Arcana
(4)
Pamela Colman Smith
(19)
Playing Card Divination
(21)
Professional Tarot
(13)
RWS Tarot
(29)
Secrets of the Occult Tarot
(3)
Story in a Picture
(13)
Tarot & Psychology
(15)
Tarot Card Meanings
(10)
Tarot de Marseille
(1)
Tarot Deck Reports
(24)
Tarot Games
(7)
Tarot History & Research
(67)
Tarot Music Videos
(12)
Tarot News & Events
(46)
Tarot Readings
(12)
Tarot Spreads
(18)
Tarot Tips & Techniques
(30)
Thoth Tarot Deck
(7)
Uncategorized
(18)
Video & Audio Tarot
(63)
World Events
(7)
zContests
(2)
zPictures of Cartomancers
(13)
zPolls
(2)
zQuotables
(7)
Recent Comments
mkg
on
What Every Newbie Tarot Reader Should Know
Rechel Renkel on
What Every Newbie Tarot Reader Should Know
Juliana on
Yes-No Advice Oracle
Marilyn
on
19th Century American Lenormand Decks
Marilyn
on
Storyteller—Pamela Colman Smith
Marilyn
on
Lunatic, Street Person or Vagabond Hippie?
Archives
Archives
Select Month
September 2015  (2)
May 2015  (1)
April 2015  (3)
March 2015  (4)
February 2015  (7)
January 2015  (4)
December 2014  (2)
November 2014  (1)
December 2013  (1)
October 2013  (1)
September 2013  (2)
July 2013  (4)
January 2013  (3)
October 2012  (2)
September 2012  (4)
July 2012  (1)
June 2012  (1)
November 2011  (5)
October 2011  (1)
September 2011  (6)
August 2011  (2)
July 2011  (13)
June 2011  (11)
May 2011  (2)
April 2011  (4)
March 2011  (6)
February 2011  (2)
January 2011  (7)
October 2010  (1)
September 2010  (19)
August 2010  (5)
July 2010  (6)
June 2010  (1)
May 2010  (4)
April 2010  (4)
March 2010  (5)
February 2010  (3)
January 2010  (4)
November 2009  (7)
October 2009  (7)
September 2009  (9)
August 2009  (7)
July 2009  (7)
June 2009  (2)
April 2009  (2)
March 2009  (5)
February 2009  (2)
January 2009  (3)
December 2008  (2)
November 2008  (5)
October 2008  (14)
September 2008  (11)
August 2008  (4)
July 2008  (4)
June 2008  (8)
May 2008  (15)
April 2008  (17)
March 2008  (9)
February 2008  (4)
October 2007  (1)
Links
A. E. Waite at Adepti
Adam McLean’s Art Tarot Weblog
AeclecticTarot & Forum
American Tarot Assoc.-ATA
Amy's Tarot Journal
Andy’s Playing Cards/Tarot
Anima Tarot
Arcanalogue
Arnell Ando’s Art Site
Ask the Wild Bee
Assoc. for Tarot Studies- ATS
Barbara Moore/Tarot Pathways
Beth Owl's Daugther
Builders of the Adytum
buildyourmetaphysicalbusiness
Catherine – Tarot Elements
Cathy McClelland-Star Tarot Deck
Corrine Kenner/Shuffle
Cultural Association "Le Tarot"
Daughters of Divination
Donnaleigh's Tarot
Douglas Gibb's Tarot Eon
Dream Gates-Robert Moss
Ed Buryn, Vagabond
Enrique Enriquez/taro-logy(beta)
Ferol Humphrey
Fool Stop Tarot-US Games
Gaian Tarot Artist’s Journal
Geraldine Amaral/TheSpiritualTarot
Ginny Hunt/78 Notes to Self
Holly’s Rider-Waite Site
ironsidestarot
James Ricklef's Tarot Blog
James Wells/Evolutionary Tarot
Jan's Tarot Guide-Angel Paths
Janine Renées' Tarot Magic Adventures
Jase On Cards
Joan Bunning's Learning the Tarot
Julie Cuccia-Watts
Karen Mahony/baba-studio
Law and Magic
Lenormandcards
Llewellyn – tarot
Ludus Triumphorum
Marcia McCord Tarot Reader
Mark Filipas/Masquerade
Mike Hernandez' Tarot Blog
Museo dei Tarocchi
My Sacred Journey-Katrina Wynne
Myth As Metaphor
Occult of Personality
Omega Institute Tarot Workshops
Playing Cards in Art
Practical Tarot Blog
Pre-Gébelin Tarot History
Pythagorean Tarot
Quirkeries-Sharyn Woerz
Rachel Pollack/Shining Tribe
Raleigh-Durham Tarot Meetup
Roppo’s PCS Works
Roswila’s Tarot Gallery
Seaqueen’s Ask My Cards
Sherryl E. Smith – Tarot Heritage
Soul-Guidance
Stir the Cauldron
Students-of-Tarot
Supertarot
Tarot Art-Ra Horakhty Tarot
Tarot Assoc. of the British Isles-TABI
Tarot by Paris/Paris Finley
Tarot Dude
Tarot Elements
Tarot for Life/site&forum
Tarot Guild of Aotearoa (NZ)
Tarot Guild of Australia
Tarot Heritage – Sherryl Smith
Tarot India
Tarot Passages
Tarot Pathways/Podcasts
Tarot Professionals
Tarot Speakeasy-Tali Goodwin
Tarot Totes (bag sales)
Tarot University Arkletters
Tarot-to-Go
Tarot.com/Library
TarotbyArwen
Tarotecards App
TarotGals-Janet Boyer
TarotGarden (deck sales)
Tarotgirl's Weblog
Tarotpedia
TarotTeachings-Avia Venefica
Tero/Tarotpuu
The Tarot Channel
The Tarot Connection
The Tarot Guild
The Tarot School
The Wild Hunt
Trionfi—Origins & History
Villa Revak
William Blake Tarot Readings
RSS - Posts RSS - Comments
4 comments
Comments feed for this article
June 13, 2011 at 5:15 pm
Paris
Standing ovation.
I can only hope that this is just the first installment…
June 13, 2011 at 5:53 pm
mystereum
I love Rachel’s expression about getting a deck without any book, and going for it.
A wonderful divination method to use inner divinity to read the cards to sync up and mesh with archetype through one’s own language of story in a “you as only you can be” of The Sun.
Great interview in both call and response!
June 16, 2011 at 8:17 am
The Wild Hunt » Quick Notes: Peg Aloi, Rachel Pollack, Michelle Bachmann, and Patheos Move Notes
[…] famed Tarot expert Rachel Pollack (of Seventy-Eight Degrees of Wisdom fame) about her career, and how she keep the subject of Tarot fresh after 40 years.“I have never walled Tarot off into its own corner.  To me, Tarot is the world, so as I […]
June 20, 2011 at 3:46 pm
Tara
What a great way to remove the fear of not reading the cards correctly . . .
forget the book, say what one sees. Thanks to Rachel Pollack for being
a genuine teacher.
Please leave a reply.
Cancel reply
Enter your comment here...
Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:
Email
(required)
(Address never made public)
Name
(required)
Website
You are commenting using your WordPress.com account.
(  Log Out  /  Change  )
You are commenting using your Twitter account.
(  Log Out  /  Change  )
You are commenting using your Facebook account.
(  Log Out  /  Change  )
You are commenting using your Google+ account.
(  Log Out  /  Change  )
Cancel
Connecting to %s
Notify me of new comments via email.
Notify me of new posts via email.
Pages
BIO
EMAIL
EVENTS
Egypt, Tarot and Mystery School Initiations
GD Glossary
PUBLICATIONS
Blog Stats
1,206,368 hits
«
Singing High Priestess
Tarot Flow
»
Create a free website or blog at WordPress.com . The Tarski Theme .
Subscribe to feed.
Follow
Follow “Mary K. Greer's Tarot Blog”
Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.
Join 6,241 other followers
Build a website with WordPress.com
Send to Email Address
Your Name
Your Email Address
Cancel
Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
%d
bloggers like this: