November 2010 ~ Movie Reviews
skip to main
|
skip to sidebar
Home
Movie Reviews
Wikipedia® Film Reviews in one place. (C)2006-2010 Pawana Media Works.
Home
Affiliate marketing
Internet
Market
Stock
Downloads
Dvd
Games
Software
Office
Parent Category
Child Category 1
Sub Child Category 1
Sub Child Category 2
Sub Child Category 3
Child Category 2
Child Category 3
Child Category 4
Featured
Health
Childcare
Doctors
music
politics
Uncategorized
This is featured post 1 title
Replace these every slider sentences with your featured post descriptions.Go to Blogger edit html and find these sentences.Now replace these with your own descriptions.This theme is Bloggerized by Lasantha - Premiumbloggertemplates.com.
This is featured post 2 title
Replace these every slider sentences with your featured post descriptions.Go to Blogger edit html and find these sentences.Now replace these with your own descriptions.This theme is Bloggerized by Lasantha - Premiumbloggertemplates.com.
This is featured post 3 title
Replace these every slider sentences with your featured post descriptions.Go to Blogger edit html and find these sentences.Now replace these with your own descriptions.This theme is Bloggerized by Lasantha - Premiumbloggertemplates.com.
This is featured post 4 title
Replace these every slider sentences with your featured post descriptions.Go to Blogger edit html and find these sentences.Now replace these with your own descriptions.This theme is Bloggerized by Lasantha - Premiumbloggertemplates.com.
This is featured post 5 title
Replace these every slider sentences with your featured post descriptions.Go to Blogger edit html and find these sentences.Now replace these with your own descriptions.This theme is Bloggerized by Lasantha - Premiumbloggertemplates.com.
Thursday, November 11, 2010
Clash of the Titans [2010]
1:38 AM
Admin - Pramod
Clash of the Titans is a 2010 fantasy film and remake of the 1981 film of the same name (the rights to which had been acquired by distributors Warner Bros. in 1996). As with the 1981 film, the story is very loosely based upon the Greek myth of Perseus. Directed by Louis Leterrier and starring Sam Worthington, the film was originally set for standard release on March 26, 2010. However, it was later announced that the film would be converted to 3D and was released on April 2, 2010.
Alternative Ending The special features of the DVD has an alternative ending that was
cut from the film. After defeating the Kraken and Hades, Andromeda falls
into the sea and Perseus dives in to save her. When he reaches her, he
embraces her with a passionate kiss, indicating that he fell in love
with her, and she with him. After reaching the shore and regaining
consciousness, Andromeda asks Perseus if he will stay and he says there
is someone he needs to talk to, before kissing her again, indicating
that he will come back. Getting on Pegasus, he flies to Mt. Olympus
where he confronts Zeus, stating that he does not wish to be one of them
and that any conflict between them has just started. After slamming his
sword into the gods' map and shattering the models of every living
person, he leaves and is seen flying on Pegasus over the sea, presumably
back to Argos.
Download torrent
Read more »
Sammys Adventure - The Secret Passage [2010]
1:25 AM
Admin - Pramod
Sammy's Adventures: The Secret Passage is a 2010 Belgian animated film produced in English. It was directed by Ben Stassen and features the voice talents of Isabelle Fuhrman, Tim Curry, Melanie Griffith and Jenny McCarthy. The film was released in August 2010.
Sammy's Adventures (whose working title was Around the World in 50 Years 3D) follows a sea turtle as he navigates his 50 year life through the changes caused by global warming.
Sammy, a sea turtle, hatches on a deserted beach and tries to climb out of the hole where he hatched. Being caught by a seagull, he struggles for his life and manages to escape, as the seagull clashes in the air with a another seagull, also carrying its prey, who turns out to be a female hatchling sea turtle, Shelly.
Sammy falls onto an old raft and gets carried into the open ocean, losing Shelly. In the ocean he meets another hatchling, Ray, who tells him the story of a "turtle paradise" on an island called "Lapagos", and they together start their voyage there. Later, the two get caught by trawls. Sammy is released back into the sea by the fishermen, but loses Ray.
Washed onto the shore in California, he is picked up by a hippie woman and lives as a pet in the hippie commune with Vera, another female sea turtle, who is older than Sammy, and Catoff, a cat, who claims to be French. On a Christmas evening the hippies draw a peace sign on his shell to sign him as the peace ambassador. When the hippies see that Sammy and Vera won't mate, they release Vera. The police evicts the hippie commune from the beach, and Sammy decides to return back to the sea.
There he meets Vera and a young female sea turtle who is attacked by a shark. Vera and Sammy save the turtle who turns out to be Shelly, his childhood friend. They decide to travel together to the paradise islands, but Shelly gets lost in the sea.
Vera tells Sammy to swim to the "cold waters". Sammy finds an old refrigerator drawn by the humans and uses it to travel to Antarctic. A gull he meets on his journey tells him that the paradise island can be only be reached through a "secret passage where the fresh waters run". In the Antarctic waters Sammy meets a fin whale who barely escapes a harpoon from a whaling ship.
The harpoon destroys the refrigerator, but Sammy is saved by the anti-whaling protesters and placed into the sea animal shelter where he finds Shelly, Catoff and people from the hippie commune (who now work in the shelter). The ex-hippie recognized the peace sign on Sammy's shell.
Shelly and Sammy are released into the ocean. They decide to find the secret passage and use it to travel to the paradise island. They manage to find the passage (which turns out to be Panama Canal) but get separated as they try to pass a lock. As he searches Shelly, Sammy encounters two sea turtles that urge him to help their friend who got trapped in an intermodal container. Sammy rescues the turtle, who turns out to be his old friend Ray. They swim together to a wrecked Spanish galleon where Roy lives with Rita, his girlfriend.
Being told about Shelly, Rita remembers her and advices Sammy to search for her in the galleon. Sammy finds Shelly being courted by another sea turtle. Disappointed and upset, Sammy returns to his friends only to find out that the turtle who courted Shelly is a playboy but has a strong relationship with another female. Together with Ray and Albert, a shark who lost his teeth, they set up a fake shark attack on Shelly to let Sammy save her again and win her heart. Shelly and Sammy then reunite and, along with Ray and Rita, return to the beach they hatched.
The closing scene of the movie shows Sammy helping one of his new-hatched grandsons to climb out of the hole.
Download torrent
Read more »
Tuesday, November 9, 2010
Paranormal Activity 2 [2010] CamRip
10:41 PM
Admin - Pramod
Paranormal Activity 2  (as
known as Paranormal 2 Activity), is a 2010 psychological horror film
directed by Tod Williams and written by Michael R. Perry. The film is a
parallel prequel to the 2007 film  Paranormal Activity , beginning
two months before and following up with the events depicted in original
film. It was released in theaters at midnight on October 22, 2010, in
the United States, Mexico, Poland, Ireland, United Kingdom and Canada.   Download torrent
Read more »
Paranormal Activity [2007] DVDrip
10:17 PM
Admin - Pramod
Paranormal Activity is a 2007 American supernatural horror film written and directed by Oren Peli.The film centers on a young couple, Katie and Micah, who are haunted by a supernatural presence in their home; it is presented in the style of "found footage," from a camera set up by the couple in an attempt to photograph what is haunting them.
Paranormal Activity premiered at Screamfest Film Festival in North America on October 14, 2007, and was shown at the Slamdance Film Festival on January 18, 2008. It received a limited U.S. release on September 25, 2009 and nationwide release on October 16, 2009. The film earned nearly $108 million at the U.S. box office and $194 million worldwide. Paramount/DreamWorks acquired the U.S. rights for $350,000. It is one of the most profitable movies ever made, based on return on investment, although such figures are difficult to verify independently and are likely to exclude marketing costs.
Language..................: English
Burn Tested...............: Yes
Audio Format..............: Dolby Digital
Encoder...................: AC3
Channels..................: 6
Video Format..............: Xvid
Standalone Support........: ESS
Resolution................: 720 x 384
Source....................: Retail DVD
Original Format...........: Pal
Genre.....................: Horror/Thriller
IMDb Rating...............: 6.8/10
Movie Information.........: http://www.imdb.com/title/tt1179904/
File Size.................: 1.06 GB
Movie Runtime.............: 1:21:57
DVD Release Date..........: 25 Nove
Download torrent
Read more »
Dangerous Minds [1995] DVDRip
10:12 PM
Admin - Pramod
Plot:
In this blackboard-jungle drama based on a true story, Michelle Pfeiffer stars as
LouAnne Johnson, a Marine turned teacher who squares off against a classroom of impudent, inner-city teens, whose bullying tactics nearly drive her out the first day. But Johnson radically changes her lesson plan to include bribery and browbeating (despite objections from the school's prissy principal) in an effort to teach the class that learning is its own reward.
Cast:
Michelle Pfeiffer as LouAnne Johnson
George Dzundza as Hal Griffith
Courtney B. Vance as George Grandey
Robin Bartlett as Carla Nichols
Beatrice Winde as Mary Benton
John Neville as Waiter
Lorraine Toussaint as Irene Roberts
Renoly Santiago as Raúl Sanchero
Wade Domínguez as Emilio Ramírez
Bruklin Harris as Callie Roberts
Marcello Thedford as Cornelius Bates
Roberto Alvarez as Gusmaro Rivera
Richard Grant as Durrell Benton
Marisela Gonzales as Angela
Toni Nichelle Buzhardt as Nikki
Norris Young as Kareem
Rahman Ibraheem as Big G
Desire Galvez as Taiwana
Wilson Limpo as Roderick
Raymond Grant as Lionel Benton
Veronica Robles as Stephanie
Size:698.96 MiB
Download this torrent
Read more »
Sunday, November 7, 2010
Golmaal 3 (2010) DVDRip
10:19 PM
Admin - Pramod
Golmaal 3 is a Hindi comedy film directed by Rohit Shetty. A sequel to the 2008 film Golmaal Returns, the project stars a majority of the actors from the previous film, including Ajay Devgn, Kareena Kapoor, Arshad Warsi, Tusshar Kapoor and Shreyas Talpade; it also features new actors.  The film started shooting on 20 March 2010 in Mumbai and continued in Goa. Golmaal 3 was released on 5 November 2010
Detected quality:
DVDRip
Release
date:
05 November 2010
Cast:
Kareena Kapoor,
Mithun Chakraborty,
Ajay Devgan,
Vrajesh Hirjee,
Sharman
Joshi,
Kunal Khemu,
Arshad Warsi,
Johnny Lever,
Sanjay Mishra,
Ratna Pathak
and others
Genre:
Comedy
Download torrent
Read more »
Saturday, November 6, 2010
The Sorcerers Apprentice (2010)
8:47 AM
Admin - Pramod
The Sorcerer's Apprentice is a 2010 fantasy adventure film produced by Jerry Bruckheimer, directed by Jon Turteltaub, and distributed by Walt Disney Pictures, the team behind the National Treasure franchise. Parts of the story are loosely based on the Sorcerer's Apprentice  segment in Disney's Fantasia (with one scene being an extensive reference to it), which in turn is based on the late 1890s symphonic poem by Paul Dukas and the 1797 Johann Wolfgang von Goethe ballad.
Balthazar Blake (Nicolas Cage) is a sorcerer in modern-day Manhattan fighting against the forces of evil, in particular his arch-nemesis, Maxim Horvath (Alfred Molina), while searching for the person who will inherit Merlin's powers. This turns out to be Dave Stutler (Jay Baruchel), a physics student at New York University, whom Balthazar takes as a reluctant protégé. The sorcerer gives his unwilling apprentice a crash course in the art and science of magic and sorcery, in order to stop Horvath and Morgana le Fay (Alice Krige) from destroying the world.
The film was originally set to be released on July 16, 2010, but was instead released two days earlier on July 14, 2010.
Download torrent
Read more »
The Wolfman (2010) DVDRip
8:39 AM
Admin - Pramod
View all movie versions:
The Wolfman
IMDB link:
780653
Detected quality:
DVDRip
IMDB
rating:
6.1 (28,538 votes)
Release date:
12 February 2010
Cast:
Anthony Hopkins,
Rick Baker,
Geraldine Chaplin,
Benicio Del Toro,
Max Von
Sydow,
Cristina Contes,
Michael Cronin,
Nicholas Day,
Anthony Debaeck,
Rob
Dixon and others
Genres:
Drama ,
Thriller ,
Horror
File size                        : 1.37 GiB
Duration                         : 1h 59mn
Overall bit rate                 : 1 642 Kbps
Writing application              : VirtualDubMod 1.5.10.2 (build
2542/release)
Writing library                  : VirtualDubMod build 2542/release
Original source form             : MAX TORRENTZ
Download torrent
Read more »
The Killer Inside Me [2010]
8:38 AM
Admin - Pramod
The Killer Inside Me is a 2010 American film adaptation of the 1952 novel of the same name by Jim Thompson. The film is directed by Michael Winterbottom and stars Casey Affleck, Kate Hudson, and Jessica Alba. At its release, it was instantly reviled for its graphic depiction of violence especially as it was directed toward women. At its premiere at the Sundance Film Festival in January 2010, Jessica Alba left the theater half way through the screening and when the film was over a viewer stood and called to the director, who was in the audience, saying: "I don't understand how Sundance could book this movie! How dare you? How dare Sundance?" The violence has colored most critical reviews of the film ever since.
1h 49mn | 702 MB | 640x272 | 759 Kbps |
23.976 fps | MP3 | 126 Kbps | 2 ch
Download torrent
Read more »
Prince of Persia The Sands of Time [2010] DVDRip
8:35 AM
Admin - Pramod
Prince of Persia: The Sands of Time is a 2010 sword-and-sorcery film written by Jordan Mechner, Boaz Yakin, Doug Miro, and Carlo Bernard; directed by Mike Newell; produced by Jerry Bruckheimer and distributed by Walt Disney Pictures. The film is a retelling of the 2003 video game of the same name, developed and released by Ubisoft Montreal.
The film stars Jake Gyllenhaal as Prince Dastan, Gemma Arterton as Princess Tamina, Ben Kingsley as Nizam, and Alfred Molina as Sheik Amar.
The film has the same title as the video game Prince of Persia: The Sands of Time, and is primarily based on it. Elements from Prince of Persia: Warrior Within and Prince of Persia: The Two Thrones, two other titles from the Prince of Persia video game franchise, are also incorporated.
Download torrent (700MB)
Read more »
Zombieland (2009) DVDRip
8:33 AM
Admin - Pramod
Zombieland is a 2009 American zombie comedy film directed by Ruben Fleischer from a screenplay written by Rhett Reese and Paul Wernick. The film stars Jesse Eisenberg, Woody Harrelson, Emma Stone, and Abigail Breslin as survivors of a zombie apocalypse. Together they take an extended road trip in an attempt to find a sanctuary free from zombies.
Zombieland received positive critical reviews and was a commercial success: It grossed more than $60.8 million in 17 days, surpassing the Dawn of the Dead remake to become the top-grossing zombie film to date in the United States.
Download torrent
(1.4GB)
Read more »
Alice in Wonderland [2010] DVDrip
8:30 AM
Admin - Pramod
Alice in Wonderland
is a 2010 American fantasy
adventure film
directed by
Tim
Burton
based on the 1865 Fantasy novel
Alice in Wonderland
by
Lewis Carrol , written by
Linda Woolverton , and released by
Walt Disney Pictures . The film stars
Mia Wasikowska ,
Johnny
Depp ,
Helena Bonham Carter ,
Anne Hathaway ,
Crispin Glover ,
Michael
Sheen , and
Stephen Fry . Wasikowska plays nineteen year old
Alice , who returns
to "Underland" for a second time, after originally visiting thirteen
years previously. She is told that she is the only one who can slay the
Jabberwocky ,
a dragon-like creature controlled by the
Red Queen
who
terrorizes Underland's inhabitants.
The film uses a combination of live action and 3D animation in a
story that can neither be described as a sequel nor as a
re-imagining . Burton developed the story because
he never felt an emotional connection to the original book, with its
series of events about a girl wandering from one weird character to
another.
The film premiered in London at the
Odeon Leicester Square
on February 25, 2010, and
was released in Australia on March 4, 2010, and the United States and
the United Kingdom on March 5, 2010, through
IMAX 3D
and
Disney Digital 3D , as well as in traditional theaters.
Despite its short theatrical-release window and mixed reviews, the film
crossed the $1-billion mark in worldwide grosses.
Troubled by a strange recurring dream and mourning the loss of her
beloved father, nineteen-year-old
Alice Kingsleigh
attends a garden party at Lord Ascot's estate, where she is faced with
the expectations of marriage and of the society in which she lives.
Unsure of how to reply and increasingly confused, she runs away to chase
after a rabbit in a waistcoat, and accidentally falls into a rabbit
hole. She is transported to a world called Underland where she is
greeted by the
White Rabbit , the
Dormouse ,
the Dodo , and
Tweedledum and Tweedledee . They
argue over her identity as "the right Alice," who it is foretold will
slay the Red Queen's
Jabberwocky
on the Frabjous Day and restore the
White Queen to power. They consult Absolem [ 7 ]
the
Caterpillar ,
who decides that she is "not hardly Alice." The group is then ambushed
by the
Bandersnatch
and a group of playing-card
soldiers led by the
Knave of
Hearts . Alice escapes and flees into the woods.
The Knave informs the
Red Queen
that Alice
has returned to Underland and threatens her reign, and the Red Knights
are ordered to find Alice immediately. Meanwhile, the wandering Alice
encounters the
Cheshire Cat , who takes her to the
Mad
Hatter
and
March Hare . On the way to the White Queen's
castle, Hatter relates the terror of the Red Queen's reign, and comments
that Alice is not the same as she once was. The Hatter helps Alice
avoid capture by allowing himself to be seized instead. Later, Alice is
found by Bayard the
Bloodhound , who wishes to take her to the White
Queen, but Alice insists upon helping the Hatter, so they go to the Red
Queen's castle.
The Red Queen is unaware of Alice's true identity (believing she is
named "Um") and therefore welcomes her as a guest. Meanwhile, the Hatter
persuades the Queen to let him serve as her personal
milliner
in an attempt to delay his execution. Alice learns that the
Vorpal Sword
(the only weapon capable of killing
the Jabberwocky) is locked away in a case inside the Bandersnatch's
den. The Knave attempts to seduce Alice, but she rebuffs him. She later
manages to retrieve the sword and befriend the Bandersnatch. The Knave
finds her with the sword and attempts to arrest her. Alice escapes on
the back of the Bandersnatch and delivers the sword to the White Queen.
The Cheshire Cat saves the Hatter from execution, and the Hatter calls
for rebellion against the Red Queen. The resistance flees to the White
Queen's castle, and both armies prepare for battle. Alice remains unsure
about the expectation for her to champion the White Queen, and meets
once more with Absolem. He reminds Alice of her past visit to Underland
(which she mistakenly called "Wonderland" at the time) thirteen years
earlier, and helps give her the courage to fight the Jabberwocky.
When the Frabjous Day arrives, both the White and Red Queens gather
their armies on a
chessboard -like battlefield and send forth their
chosen champions (armor-clad Alice and the Jabberwocky respectively) to
decide the fate of Underland. The White Queen offers her sister a chance
for peace but is refused. Encouraging herself with words of her father,
Alice manages to kill the Jabberwocky. Having regained control of the
throne, the White Queen banishes the Red Queen and the Knave to the
Outlands, and gives Alice a vial of the Jabberwocky’s blood, which will
take her home. The Hatter suggests that she could stay in Underland, but
she decides that she must go back and promises that she will return.
After drinking the blood, Alice returns home, where she addresses all
of the issues she faced at the beginning of the film and takes charge
of her life. She then becomes an apprentice for Lord Ascot, with the
idea of beginning oceanic trade routes in China. As the story closes,
Alice prepares to set off on a trading ship. Absolem, now a butterfly,
lands on her shoulder. Alice recognizes him before he flutters away.
Download torrent
(700MB)
Read more »
The Losers [2010] DVD rip
8:27 AM
Admin - Pramod
The Losers
is a 2010 American
action
film
adaptation
of
Vertigo
comic book
series of the same name
by Andy Diggle. Directed
by
Sylvain White , the film features an
ensemble
cast
that includes
Jeffrey Dean Morgan ,
Zoe
Saldana
and
Chris Evans .
The film received mixed or average reviews from critics and drew
comparisons to
The A-Team , a remake of which was released
shortly after
The Losers
premiered.
Clay, Jensen, Roque, Pooch and Cougar are members of an elite
United States
Special Forces
team sent into the
Bolivian
jungle on a search-and-destroy mission. Upon painting their target for
an air strike, Cougar spots children being moved into the camp. Their
attempts at aborting the strike are met with resistance, and upon
destruction of the targeting equipment it's revealed that "command" is
"Max," and he has no intention of aborting. Against orders, Clay moves
the team into the compound (target site) to rescue the children, finding
all but one. Clay finds the last child guarded by the prime target (the
prime reason for the air strike), whom Clay shoots as the man attempts
to reach for the knife that he had previously dropped. The team then
escape the compound with the children via school bus, narrowly escaping
the blast zone. Reaching the original pickup location, Clay opts to
airlift the children out of the area instead of the team. But Max,
believing the team to be on board the helicopter, orders it destroyed.
Download torrent
Read more »
Milf (2010) DVDRiP
8:25 AM
Admin - Pramod
Milf (2010) DVDRiP XviD-QCF
English | AVI | XviD 624x352 968Kbps 23.976fps |
MP3 135Kbps 2CH 48KHz | 1hr 28mn | 701MB
Genre: Comedy
Director: Scott Wheeler
Cast: Joseph Booton, Ramon Camacho, Philip Marlatt, Jack Cullison
Plot: A group of nerdy college guys who can't seem to connect with girls
their own age
discover the excitement of hooking up with sexy older women.
How To Get Your Maxspeed (uTorrent)
Torrent Client - Preferences - Bandwidth - Number of connections - Set
aprox. 500 for each
Torrent Client - Preferences - BiTorrent - Protocol Encryption - Forced
Bandwidth Allocation - High (Set download/upload limit - Unlimited)
Stop Other Active Torrents - Start downloading and wait for connections.
Enjoy and Seed for at least 1:1 ratio. Don't forget to say thanks/leave
reviews.
Greets to all actual/future p2p/scene quality groups and affiliate
websites.
Don't trust IMDb robot or bad ratings,always watch some trailers first.
Ignore stupid comments/fake/mislabeled/no-dvdrips/CAM/TS/RAR uploads.
Please spread this release/torrent to your friends/forums/etc.
If you need translation subs visit some subtitles sites.
Report if you see online streaming or other spam links.
Recommended movie player VLC PLAYER.
Download torrent
Read more »
Crook 2010 Hindi Pre-DVDRip
8:23 AM
Admin - Pramod
Crook (originally titled Crook: It's Good to Be Bad) is a Bollywood  thriller film directed by Mohit Suri starring Emraan Hashmi. The film was released on October 8, 2010. The film was shot in Australia and South Africa and is based on the racial attacks on Indian students in Australia  during 2009
The film starts with Jai Dixit ( Emraan
Hashmi ), a youngster who sells pirated DVDs. One day, his uncle
Joseph ( Gulshan Grover ) caught him and changed his
personality completely, he changed his name to Suraj Bhardwaj and sends
him off to
Australia . At the airport, he meets Romi Latti, a
teenager who got a scholarship to a University College. He also meets
Suhani ( Neha Sharma ), a young girl who has come to pick Romi up.
Suraj gets attracted to Suhani, and therefore he pretends to be Romi and
leaves with Suhani. When Suhani finds out that he is not the real Romi,
Suraj makes a run for it. Suraj then stays with Goldie, a responsible
adult living with his brothers. While Suraj is at a grocery store, on
phone with his uncle Joseph, he finds that Australians are attacking the
shopkeeper because he is a Muslim, so Suraj finds a gun and comes out.
He has the Australians on the gunpoint as the police come. Suraj
remembers that his uncle told him not to get in any type of trouble with
the police, so Suraj runs away. Suraj hides in Nicole's car, although
he finds out Nicole is the younger sister of the Attackers. Nicole works
in a striping club named 'Duke's Club'. When Suraj has to pick between
Suhani and Nicole, he picks Suhani and takes the duty to be Suhani's
brother, Samarth's ( Arjan Bajwa ) driver. When Samarth's car
breaksdown, Suraj has to get help, but instead he tells Romi to go and
fix his car so Suhani and Suraj can have a beautiful night together. But
when they are about to kiss, Samarth shows up, and concepts that Romi
has been beat up by Australians on the highway and Romi and Samarth are
about to protest against the Australians and Indians. When Samarth is
attacked, he loses his temper and kidnaps Nicole, when Suraj goes to
save Nicole, it turns out that Samarth is planning to murder Nicole and
blame the murder on Suraj, and he is doing all this because his sister
Sheena was also murdered by the Australians once. But when he
accidentally shoots Suraj, Romi comes up behind him with a metal rod and
smacks it round Samarth's head and he dies. The film ends with Suhani
and Suraj getting back together.
Download torrent
Read more »
Robin Hood 2010 720p BluRay
8:20 AM
Admin - Pramod
Robin Hood is a 2010 American/British adventure film based on the Robin Hood legend, directed by Ridley Scott and starring Russell Crowe. It was released in the United Kingdom on May 12, 2010, after premiering at the 2010 Cannes Film Festival, and was released in the United States on May 14.
It is 1199 and
Robin Longstride
( Russell
Crowe ) is a common
archer
in
Richard the Lionheart 's ( Danny
Huston ) army. A veteran of the
Third
Crusade
and Richard's war against
Philip II of France
(Jonathan Zaccaï), he now takes part
in the siege against
Chalus Castle . Following the death
of Richard the Lionheart, Robin and two other common archers,
Alan
A'Dale
( Alan Doyle ),
Will Scarlett
( Scott
Grimes ), as well as soldier
Little
John
( Kevin Durand ), attempt to return to their
homeland, having spent ten years fighting abroad. Along the way they
come across an ambush of the Royal guard by Sir Godfrey ( Mark
Strong ), an English knight with French allegiance. Philip of France
had ordered Sir Godfrey to assassinate Richard. Having discovered the
King is already slain, Sir Godfrey is chased off by the arrival of Robin
and his companions. Aiming to return to England safely and richer in
pocket than when they left it, Robin and his men steal the armour of the
slain knights and head for the English ships on the coast under the
guise of noblemen. Before leaving the scene of slaughter Robin promises a
dying knight, Robert Loxley ( Douglas
Hodge ), to return a sword to the man's father in
Nottingham .
Upon arriving in
England , Robin (who has assumed the identity of
Loxley) is brought to
London
and chosen to inform the Royal family of the
King's death and witnesses the coronation of
King John
( Oscar
Isaac ), who is the younger brother of the recently-deceased
Richard. The arrogant King John shows no remorse to his poor Kingdom and
demands harsh taxes to be collected, sending Sir Godfrey off to the
North with the task of raising revenue. Unbeknownst to King John, Sir
Godfrey is an agent of the French King and uses this Royal Decree to
stir up enough unrest, using French Troops, to cause Civil War in
England.
Robin and his companions head to Nottingham, where Loxley's old and
blind father Sir Walter ( Max
von Sydow ) asks him to continue impersonating his son, in order to
prevent the family lands being taken by the crown. Loxley's widow,
Lady
Marian
( Cate Blanchett ), is initially distrustful of
Robin, but soon warms to him when he recovers taxed grain for the
townsfolk to plant.
Meanwhile, Godfrey's actions have stirred up the northern Barons, who
march to meet King John, and demand the signing of a charter of rights.
Having realized Godfrey's deception, and knowing he must reunite his
people in order to meet an imminent French invasion, the King agrees. A
battle follows shortly where Godfrey's men are interrupted while
ransacking Nottingham, and chased off by Robin and the northern Barons.
In the midst of the battle, Sir Walter is slain by Godfrey.
The film climaxes with an invasion on England's south coast by the
French, who are met as they land by the English army. The English are
victorious in the ensuing battle. Godfrey attempts to flee on horseback,
but Robin puts an arrow through his throat from long distance,
presumably killing him. However, King John perceives the French
surrendering to Robin, rather than to himself, as a major threat to his
power. In the final scenes, King John reneges on his word to sign the
Charter of the Forest , burns it, and
declares Robin to be an outlaw. In response to this, Robin moves to
Sherwood Forest
with Lady Marian and his friends to form
what will become the
Merry Men of Sherwood Forest .
Download torrent
Read more »
Kill Speed [2010] DVD rip
8:17 AM
Admin - Pramod
KILL SPEED" is a high-octane, youth oriented, “TOP
GUN” meets “FAST & FURIOUS” tale about best friends who fly
home-built, high-tech planes to deliver Mexican manufactured crystal
meth throughout rural California in order to fund their Hollywood,
rock-star lifestyle. That is until a beautiful young woman who is not
what she pretends to be infiltrates their group.
View all movie versions:
Kill Speed
IMDB link:
1027683
Detected quality:
HDRiP
Release
date:
02 July 2010
Cast:
Tom Arnold,
Robert Patrick,
Bill Goldberg,
Andrew Keegan,
Nick Carter,
Natalia Cigliuti,
Jose De Jesus Martinez,
Skip Stellrecht,
Greg Grunberg,
Brent Huff and others
Genre:
Action
Cast: randon Quinn ...
Rainman
Natalia Cigliuti Natalia Cigliuti ...
Rosanna
Nick Carter Nick Carter ...
Forman
Robert Patrick Robert Patrick
Reno Wilson Reno Wilson ...
Jackson
Bill Goldberg ...
Big Bad John
Download torrent
Read more »
Shutter Island [2010] DvDrip
8:14 AM
Admin - Pramod
hutter Island is a 2010 American psychological thriller film directed  by Martin Scorsese. The film is based on Dennis Lehane's 2003 novel of the same name. Production started in March 2008. Leonardo DiCaprio stars as U.S. Marshal Edward "Teddy" Daniels, who is investigating a psychiatric facility located on the island named in the title. The film grossed over $127 million in its initial domestic theater release.
Shutter Island
was originally slated to be released on October 2,
2009, but Paramount Pictures pushed the release
date to February 19, 2010
View all movie versions:
Shutter
Island
IMDB link:
1130884
Detected quality:
DVDRip
IMDB
rating:
8.0 (101,962 votes)
Release date:
13 February 2010
Cast:
Leonardo DiCaprio,
Elias Koteas,
Robin Bartlett,
Ben Kingsley,
Max Von
Sydow,
John Carroll Lynch,
Michael Byron,
Ken Cheeseman,
Patricia Clarkson,
Matthew Cowles and others
Genres:
Drama ,
Thriller ,
Crime ,
Mystery ,
Horror
Download torrent
Read more »
She's Out of My League (2010) DVDRip
8:09 AM
Admin - Pramod
View all movie versions:
She's
Out of My League
IMDB link:
815236
Detected quality:
DVDRip
IMDB
rating:
6.6 (19,337 votes)
Release date:
12 March 2010
Cast:
Casey Brown,
Lindsay Sloane,
Chuck Aber,
Tony Amen,
Rick Applegate,
Jay Baruchel,
Andrew
Daly,
Trevor Eve,
Adam LeFevre,
Sharon Maughan and others
Genres:
Romance ,
Comedy
Format/Info                      : Audio Video Interleave
Format profile                   : OpenDML
File size                        : 1.26 GiB
Duration                         : 1h 44mn
Overall bit rate                 : 1 732 Kbps
Writing application              : VirtualDubMod 1.5.10.2 (build
2542/release)
Writing library                  : VirtualDubMod build 2542/release
Original source form             : MAX TORRENTZ
Copyright                        : SIGISMUNT
Video
ID                               : 0
Format                           : MPEG-4 Visual
Format profile                   : AdvancedSimple@L5
Format settings, BVOP            : Yes
Format settings, QPel            : No
Format settings, GMC             : No warppoints
Format settings, Matrix          : Default (MPEG)
Codec ID                         : XVID
Codec ID/Hint                    : XviD
Duration                         : 1h 44mn
Bit rate                         : 1 343 Kbps
Width                            : 720 pixels
Height                           : 304 pixels
Display aspect ratio             : 2.35:1
Frame rate                       : 23.976 fps
Resolution                       : 24 bits
Colorimetry                      : 4:2:0
Scan type                        : Progressive
Bits/(Pixel*Frame)               : 0.256
Stream size                      : 1 004 MiB (78%)
Writing library                  : XviD 1.2.1 (UTC 2008-12-04)
Audio
ID                               : 1
Format                           : AC-3
Format/Info                      : Audio Coding 3
Codec ID                         : 2000
Duration                         : 1h 44mn
Bit rate mode                    : Constant
Bit rate                         : 384 Kbps
Channel(s)                       : 6 channels
Channel positions                : Front: L C R, Surround: L R, LFE
Sampling rate                    : 48.0 KHz
Stream size                      : 287 MiB (22%)
Alignment                        : Aligned on interleaves
Interleave, duration             : 64 ms (1.53 video frames)
Interleave, preload duration     : 192 ms
Source: 720p BluRay
Download torrent
Read more »
2012 (2009) DVDRip
8:07 AM
Admin - Pramod
View all movie versions:
2012
IMDB link:
1190080
Detected quality:
DVDRip
IMDB
rating:
5.9 (75,991 votes)
Release date:
11 November 2009
Cast:
John Cusack,
Danny Glover,
Woody Harrelson,
Patrick Bauchau,
Amanda Peet,
Oliver Platt,
George Segal,
Frank C. Turner,
Gillian Barber,
Doron Bell
and others
Genres:
Action ,
Drama ,
Sci Fi ,
Adventure ,
Thriller
Format
: AVI
Format/Info
: Audio Video Interleave
File size
: 1.37 GiB
Duration
: 2h 31mn
Overall bit rate
: 1 293 Kbps
Writing application
: VirtualDubMod 1.5.10.2 (build
2542/release)
Writing library
: VirtualDubMod build 2542/release
Original source form
: MAX TORRENTZ
Copyright
: SIGISMUNT Video
ID
: 0
Format
: MPEG-4 Visual
Format profile
: AdvancedSimple[@]L5
Format settings, BVOP
: Yes
Format settings, QPel
: No
Format settings, GMC
: No warppoints
Format settings, Matrix
: Default (H.263)
Codec ID
: XVID
Codec ID/Hint
: XviD
Duration
: 2h 31mn
Bit rate
: 1 163 Kbps
Width
: 640 pixels
Height
: 272 pixels
Display aspect ratio
: 2.35:1
Frame rate
: 25.000 fps
Resolution
: 24 bits
Colorimetry
: 4:2:0
Scan type
: Progressive
Bits/(Pixel*Frame)
: 0.267
Stream size
: 1.23 GiB (90%)
Writing library
: XviD 1.2.1 (UTC 2008-12-04)
Audio
ID
: 1
Format
: MPEG Audio
Format version
: Version 1
Format profile
: Layer 3
Codec ID
: 55
Codec ID/Hint
: MP3
Duration
: 2h 31mn
Bit rate mode
: Variable
Bit rate
: 117 Kbps
Channel(s)
: 2 channels
Sampling rate
: 48.0 KHz
Resolution
: 16 bits
Stream size
: 127 MiB (9%)
Alignment
: Aligned on interleaves
Interleave, duration
: 24 ms (0.60 video frame)
Interleave, preload duration
: 163 ms
Download torrent
Read more »
How To Train Your Dragon 2010 - 720p BluRay
6:45 AM
Admin - Pramod
View all movie versions:
How
to Train Your Dragon
IMDB link:
892769
Detected quality:
720p
IMDB
rating:
8.2 (38,670 votes)
Release date:
26 March 2010
Cast:
Peter Aude,
Jay
Baruchel,
Gerard Butler,
Robin Atkin Downes,
Craig Ferguson,
Robert Hansen,
Ashley Jensen,
Niclas Mortensen,
Sasia MøLgaard,
Niels Olsen
and others
Genres:
Animation ,
Adventure ,
Family ,
Comedy ,
Fantasy
Download torrent
Read more »
Killers 2010 - DVDRIP
6:43 AM
Admin - Pramod
A vacationing woman meets her ideal man,
leading to a swift marriage. Back at home,
however, their idyllic life is upset when they
discover their neighbors could be assassins
who have been contracted to kill the couple.
Format
| AVI
Language | ENGLISH
Size | 701 MB
Genre | COMEDY
Runtime | 01:36:13 Subs
| None
Source
| DVD PAL Rating| 3.7/10
IMDB : http://www.imdb.com/title/tt1103153/
Posted on ...: 07/07/2010
Video | Audio
Data
FourCC: xvid/XVID Resolution: 672x288
Aspect Ratio: ~2.35 Framerate: 25 fps
Bitrate: 922 kbps Qf: 0.190630
Audio tag: MP3 Bitrate: 113 VBR
Channels: 2 Sample Rate: 44100
Download torrent
Read more »
Iron Man 2[2010]DvDrip
6:41 AM
Admin - Pramod
Billionaire
Tony Stark
must contend with deadly issues involving the government, his own
friends, as well as new enemies due to his superhero alter ego Iron Man.
http://www.imdb.com/title/tt1228705/
2h 04 mn | 799 MB | 640x256 | 759 Kbps | 23.976 fps | MP3 | 128 Kbps | 2
ch
View all movie versions:
Iron Man 2
IMDB link:
1228705
IMDB rating:
7.2 (71,069 votes)
Release date:
26 April 2010
Cast:
Samuel L. Jackson,
Don Cheadle,
Robert Downey Jr.,
Gwyneth Paltrow,
Mickey
Rourke,
Leslie Bibb,
Sam Rockwell,
Don Abernathy,
Christiane Amanpour,
Martin Andris and others
Genres:
Action ,
Sci Fi ,
Adventure ,
Thriller
Download Movie Torrent
Read more »
A Day Of Violence 2010 - DVD RIP
6:39 AM
Admin - Pramod
Mitchell Parker lies dead on a morgue slab. In life, 'Mitchell' served
the low ranks of Debt Collectors, surrounded by all the filth and scum
that the world had to offer. He thought his luck was in, when on a
routine collection he stumbles across 100,000 in cash, hidden in the
sofa of one of his clients. A dark and haunting past hangs over the head
of 'Mitchell Parker', one that will lead him on a journey of redemption
and ultimately sacrifice. Hunted by the gang whose Money he has stolen.
He must evade capture and use the money to rid himself of his demons
once and for all. Witness his last days of life.
Genre................> Crime | Thriller
Year..................> 2010
IMDb Link............>
http://www.imdb.com/title/tt1109582/
Source...............> DVD
Size...................> 1.18 GB
Length...............> 1h 31mn
Video.................> XviD
Resolution...........> 688 x 382/ 25.00 fps
Audio Language....> English
Audio.................> mp3 / 128 Kbps
Subs..................> N/A
CAST Giovanni Lombardo Radice ... Hopper
Nick Rendell ... Mitchell
Christopher Fosh ... Chisel
Victor D. Thorn ... Curtis Boswell
Peter Rnic ... Madock
Steve Humphries ... Smithy
Helena Martin ... Suzy
Tina Barnes ... Abbi
Forbes KB ... Noodles
Pete Morgan ... Danny
Download Movie torrent
Read more »
Wednesday, November 3, 2010
13Hrs (2010)
7:48 PM
Admin - Pramod
As a storm rages outside, Sarah
Tyler, her family and friends shore up for the night in the isolated
countryside. But something comes out of the driving rain and darkness.
Something that holds a dark secret so devastating that, in one night, it
could wipe out the entire family...
http://www.imdb.com/title/tt1411232/
seeders:
1682 leechers:
987   Detected quality:
DVDRip
Release
date:
28 August 2010
Cast:
John Lynch,
Tom
Felton,
Simon MacCorkindale,
Sue Scadding,
Gabriel Thomson,
Gemma Atkinson,
Isabella Calthorpe,
Louisa Lytton,
Anthony Di Liseo,
Cornelius Clarke and others
Size - 704MB
Download Torrent
Read more »
Hitman (2007 Film)
7:42 PM
Admin - Pramod
Hitman is a 2007 film directed by Xavier Gens and based on the video game series of the same name. The film stars Timothy Olyphant and Dougray Scott. Hitman was released on November 21, 2007. A sequel, under the working title of Hitman 2, is currently in pre-production.
The film opens with a montage showing a group of bald children
receiving tattoos of
bar codes
and receiving
training in firearms and hand-to-hand combat. In these scenes, it is
shown that those boys are raised to be assassins and trained to kill.
Interpol
agent Mike Whittier discovers
Agent 47
in his study, where the two talk. The scene flashes back three months,
as 47 is completing a hit in
Niger . He
receives a communication from his Agency contact, Diana, and is told he
is to kill his next target, Russian President Mikhail Belicoff,
publicly. He completes his mission as ordered, but before he can leave
Russia he is contacted by his employers. They tell him there is a
witness to the assassination and order him to intercept her. When Agent
47 confronts her on the street, he realizes she's never seen him before.
As they stare at each other, a civilian next to him is shot. Realizing
he's been set up, Agent 47 calmly walks away from the scene.
His employers reveal his location to agents in the Russian
FSB , who make plans to intercept him. As he is
about to be taken, Diana personally calls him to warn him. She tells him
that Belicoff ordered the hit on himself. After a dramatic escape from
the hotel, 47 intercepts Nika, the woman who supposedly witnessed his
hit. He interrogates her about Belicoff and discovers that Belicoff had
doppelgängers in place. He deduces that he killed the real Belicoff and
that a double has taken his place at the behest of a
cabal
of
Russian hardliners who do not want political change.
As Nika and 47 attempt to take a train further into the Russian
interior they are intercepted by more assassins from the Agency. 47
kills four of them before wounding Agent Whittier and his partner.
Infuriated at yet another escape, the FSB and Agent Markov order
Interpol to leave the country immediately. In the meantime, 47 contacts
Agent Smith of the
CIA . He offers Smith a deal - he
will kill Udre Belicoff, Mikhail's brother, in exchange for a favor
from the CIA. Udre is an arms dealer and slave trader whom both the CIA
and FSB have wanted dead for some time. He uses
blackmail
to influence Smith into accepting the deal. Smith informs 47 that Udre
had been planning something with a German arms dealer named Price.
Intercepting him could lead 47 to Udre.
47 and Nika travel to
Istanbul , where 47 abducts Price from a restaurant
in order to pose as Price at a meeting with Udre. 47 later kills Udre
and his henchmen at Udre's mansion outside the city. Belicoff's double
is forced to attend Udre's funeral. 47 kidnaps Yuri and forces him to
have his own FSB agents try to shoot Belicoff as he delivers a eulogy
for Udre. Disguised as a soldier, 47 manages to kill all of Belicoff's
guards and takes him into the archbishop's chamber in the church. He has
a conversation with Belicoff who tries to reason with 47. He tells 47
that the Russian people will never let him get away with assassinating
the president. He offers to let 47 leave if he leaves Belicoff alive. 47
instead kills him. He then allows himself to be taken into custody by
Interpol and Mike Whittier.
At this point Agent Smith delivers on his end of the deal, having the
agents under his command intercept the Interpol convoy that is
transporting 47 to the airport, giving 47 the distraction necessary to
escape. The scene then flashes forward to the conversation between
Whittier and 47 occurring at Whittier's house. After wrapping up their
conversation, 47 reveals the body of Mr. Price, shaved and dressed to
look like 47. They make a deal in which Whittier will go along with 47's
plan, admitting that the body in his home is the real 47. As 47 leaves,
he turns to Whittier and says that he hopes to never see Whittier
again.
The scene then changes to Nika, who is shown picking up an envelope
from an undisclosed sender. Inside it, there are papers and a message
saying that she now owns a vineyard (she had told 47 of her childhood
dream of having one). Meanwhile, 47 is watching her from afar, through
the scope of his sniper rifle. He then looks at the corpse of another
hitman ,
lying close to him, and says, "I told you to leave her alone. You should
have listened." He then turns back, and walks away.
Size: 935.25 MiB (980675967 Bytes)
Info:
IMDB
Spoken language(s): English
Download this torrent
Read more »
Star Wars: Episode 2 - Attack of the Clones
7:37 PM
Admin - Pramod
Star Wars Episode II: Attack of the Clones
is a 2002
American
space opera
film
directed by
George
Lucas
and written by Lucas and Jonathan Hales. It is the fifth film
to be released in the
Star
Wars
saga and the second in terms of
internal chronology .
The film is set 10 years after the events in
Star Wars Episode I:
The Phantom Menace , when
the galaxy
is on the brink of
civil war . Under the leadership of a renegade
Jedi
named
Count
Dooku , thousands of
planetary systems
threaten to
secede
from the
Galactic
Republic . When an
assassination
attempt is made on Senator
Padmé Amidala , the former Queen of
Naboo ,
20-year-old Jedi apprentice
Anakin
Skywalker
is assigned to protect her, while his mentor
Obi-Wan Kenobi
is assigned to investigate the assassination
attempt. Soon, Anakin, Padmé, and Obi-Wan are drawn into the heart of
the Separatist territories and the beginning of a new threat to the
galaxy, the
Clone Wars .
Released on May 16, 2002,
Attack of the Clones
was the first
motion picture to be shot completely on a
high definition digital 24-frame system
and the first
Star Wars
film to be internationally out-grossed
in the year of its original release.
Size: 1.5 GiB (1610248416 Bytes)
Info:
IMDB
Spoken language(s): English
Texted language(s): English
Download torrent
Read more »
Monday, November 1, 2010
Vampires Suck - 2010
1:43 AM
Admin - Pramod
Becca Crane (Jenn Proske) moves to Sporks to live with her clueless
father, Sheriff Frank ( Diedrich Bader ), after her mother starts an affair with
Tiger
Woods . Meanwhile killings have been happening to random people and
the number one suspects are the Kardashians. Becca is quickly befriended
by many students at her new high school, including Jennifer ( Anneliese van der Pol ) but she is
intrigued by the mysterious and aloof Edward Sullen ( Matt
Lanter ), who perplexes her during their time in the biology class.
Later, Becca is nearly struck by a van in the school parking lot. Edward
inexplicably moves from several feet away and stops the vehicle with a
student without any harm to himself or Becca, the student being badly
injured. He later refuses to explain this act to Becca and warns her
against befriending him. After much research, but reaching the wrong
conclusion that he is a
Jonas Brother , Edward corrects her saying he's a
vampire ,
though he only consumes animal blood and shows her the shiny bling he
wears under his clothes. The pair fall in love but Edward denies having
sex
with her
and instead introduces Becca to his vampire family on her birthday.
While unwrapping a gift, Becca gets a paper cut, causing Edward's family
to relapse by her blood's scent and attempt to kill her. Realizing the
danger that he and his family pose to Becca, Edward ends their
relationship while saving her from the one of the three nomadic vampires
who have been killing humans, Jack (Charlie Weber), knocking his head
off with a baseball bat.
Edward's departure leaves Becca heartbroken and depressed for months
as she discovers that thrill-seeking activities evoke Edward's preserved
image. She is also comforted by her deepening friendship with Jacob
White ( Christopher N. Riggi ), the cheerful childhood friend who
eases her pain over losing Edward. But due to his strange puberty, Becca
discovers he has become a
Chihuahua
as his "pack" arrive to maul another of the nomadic vampires. Edward
has moved to Brazil and is now dating
Lady
Gaga
but through a series of miscommunications, Edward believes
Becca has
killed
herself
and attempts to provoke the " Zolturi " — a powerful vampire coven capable of
killing him — by standing naked in the sunlight at the site of the ' St. Salvatore's day ' school prom.
Becca rushes to the prom in a Porsche Carrera to save Edward. Upon
arrival, she is slowed down during the warring factions of
Edward fangirls and Jacob fangirls . She is
unable to make it in time as Edward exposes himself, figuratively and
literally. However, an eclipse starts and thus concealing Edward's
vampire nature as Becca gets him to safety. However after a fight
between him and the Zolturi leader, Daro ( Ken
Jeong ), Edward is forced to make Becca into a vampire so their lives
would be spared. He does so after Becca agrees to marry him if he makes
her a vampire and his wife. The movie concludes with Edward taking a
blow to the head by the head Jacob fangirl (though surviving the blow),
who ends up being attacked by the vampirized Becca
Download this torrent
Read more »
Newer Posts
Older Posts
Home
Your Ad Here
Categories
Affiliate marketing
(1)
Comedy
(1)
English Movies
(41)
English Series
(2)
Hindi Movies
(7)
Blog Archive
►
2011
(1)
►
January
(1)
▼
2010
(52)
▼
November
(28)
Clash of the Titans [2010]
Sammys Adventure - The Secret Passage [2010]
Paranormal Activity 2 [2010] CamRip
Paranormal Activity [2007] DVDrip
Dangerous Minds [1995] DVDRip
Golmaal 3 (2010) DVDRip
The Sorcerers Apprentice (2010)
The Wolfman (2010) DVDRip
The Killer Inside Me [2010]
Prince of Persia The Sands of Time [2010] DVDRip
Zombieland (2009) DVDRip
Alice in Wonderland [2010] DVDrip
The Losers [2010] DVD rip
Milf (2010) DVDRiP
Crook 2010 Hindi Pre-DVDRip
Robin Hood 2010 720p BluRay
Kill Speed [2010] DVD rip
Shutter Island [2010] DvDrip
She's Out of My League (2010) DVDRip
2012 (2009) DVDRip
How To Train Your Dragon 2010 - 720p BluRay
Killers 2010 - DVDRIP
Iron Man 2[2010]DvDrip
A Day Of Violence 2010 - DVD RIP
13Hrs (2010)
Hitman (2007 Film)
Star Wars: Episode 2 - Attack of the Clones
Vampires Suck - 2010
►
October
(24)
Download
Follow this blog
Copyright © 2011
Movie Reviews
| Powered by
Blogger
Design by
Free WordPress Themes
| Bloggerized by
Lasantha
-
Premium Blogger Themes
|
belt buckles