Scottsdale Houses a Thriving Film Community by Russ Lyon
How It Works
Explore
Articles
RevPages
Talents
Groups
Questions
Brand Pages
Join APSense
Username:
Password:
Remember me   Sign In
Articles
Browse Articles   »   Home & Family   »   Scottsdale Houses a Thriving Film Community
Scottsdale Houses a Thriving Film Community
by
Russ Lyon
If
you think the film industry in Scottsdale Arizona is limited to the
hilarious comedy "Raising Arizona" by the Coen Brothers, you haven?t
been to Scottsdale lately.
Scottsdale houses
a thriving film community including hosting The 11th Annual Phoenix
Film Festival is taking place March 31st through April 7th, 2011 with
screenings at the Harkins Cine Capri Theatre at Scottsdale 101.
The festival features over 150 films, shorts, Q&A with producers,
directors, and talent and more. You can play nine holes at one of
Scottsdale?s many award winning golf course resorts and then dress to
the nines for the film festivals Opening Night Gala featuring the
presentation of the Phoenix Film Foundation?s Visionary Award given to a
key contributor to the community. Educational workshops in screenplay
writing are open to aspiring middle-school and high-school directors.
Festival passes range from Platinum Passes which include entry to all
the events, parties, and priority seating to individual film screening
passes.
Scottsdale's beautiful weather and scenery make it perfect for many
outdoor activities including golf, hiking, biking, and filming. Some
well-known movies filmed in Scottsdale, Arizona include Bill and Ted?s
Excellent Adventure, Transamerica, and The Blue Collar Comedy Tour: The
Movie. Scottsdale has many old Hollywood connections, especially The
Biltmore Hotel whose illustrious guests have included Fred Astaire and
Marilyn Monroe.
Hotel Valley Ho?s Magical Mystery Tour led by experts from the Ultimate
Art & Cultural Tours explores the history and legends of this
mid-century modern hotel?s famous Hollywood guests. Not surprising
considering its natural beauty and Old West Heritage, Scottsdale has
often been used for filming Westerns. The landmark Western Call of the
Canyon (1923) was filmed in Sedona, Arizona. Many visitors to Arizona
who follow historic Route 66 which runs through Scottsdale, might not
realize that it is the real life inspiration for one the most popular
movies of all time, Disney?s Cars.
In fact, many real life movie places exist in Scottsdale, including the
bank that is robbed toward the end of ?Raising Arizona? which is the
Reata Pass Steakhouse in North Scottsdale. Scottsdale is also home to
real movie stars. Fred Graham was Hollywood?s greatest 'fight' men ever,
working on Westerns, action movies, and thrillers for over 30 years
before becoming the first president of the Arizona Film Commission. He
was a double for John Wayne in many Arizona Westerns, Jimmy Stewart in
Vertigo ,
Cary Grant in To Catch A Thief, and many more. Comedian and actor David
Spade grew up in Scottsdale and did stand-up at many of Scottsdale?s
popular nightclubs. Basketball Hall of Famer and perhaps the best known
and best loved Harlem Globe Trotter, Meadowlark Lemon now lives in
Scottsdale.
If you need more proof that Scottsdale, Arizona, ignites the film
imagination, you can look at one of its most famous residents.
Throughout his early teenage years, famed film director Steven Spielberg
made amateur 8 mm "adventure" films with his friends, many of them shot
at the Pinnacle Peak Patio restaurant in Scottsdale.
Resources Box
TGEYE
More are only a click away from getting in touch with your family over the ...
Al's Hints Tips and Tricks
Them is best for them etc etc etc. It’s just as important to be able to let...
Ultimate Survival Plan
Of Your Family Take Advantage of This Special Offer The Ultimate Survival P...
About
Russ Lyon
4
connections,
0
recommendations,
12
honor points.
Joined APSense since, March 23rd, 2010, From Scottsdale, United States.
Report this Page
Created on Mar 14th 2011 22:42. Viewed 369 times.
Share on APSense
Comments
No comment, be the first to comment.
Please sign in before you comment.
Recommended Reading?
+0
-0
Sponsored
10,000 By This Time Next Month...
The quickest way to success is to find someone who's already achieved what you are trying to do,then copy everything they did to achieve their success. I will show you EXACTLY what to do !
E-mail 60,000 Members Now !
What are you waiting for ? It's Free and get MASSIVE. * Get FREE, targeted exposure for your Business & leveraging your time. Why make it hard on yourself when there is a tool that makes is so easy !
PAID Directly and Instantly To You
NEW training & tools to explode your current business leveraging your time to get a LOT more out of the same efforts,why make it hard on yourself when there is a tool that makes is so easy !
Tags Links
More Articles
Welcome to Scottsdale Russ Lyon
From Hipster to Ultra-Sophisticated Scottsdale?s DC Ranch is Home to it All
Scottsdale Schools Home to Excellent Programs
Scottsdale Mountain is Home for Outdoor Enthusiasts
Scottsdale?s Ancala Home to Fabulous Championship Golf
Similar Articles
Andhra Pradesh – A thriving real estate community
BCN NEWS SHARES LETTER FROM THRIVING BUSINESS COMMUNITY
Scottsdale Houses Many Visitors
Scottsdale Houses Many Hip Hot Spots
Scottsdale Offers Many Houses of Worship
Home   -   About APSense   -   How It Works   -   Privacy Policy   -   Terms of Use   -   Contact Us   -   Tools   -   Directory   -   Upgrade Your Account
©2007-2015 APSense Ltd. All Rights Reserved.
Join APSense.com Social Network
Special Offer: FREE Upgrade to Pro!