Working For Someone vs Being Your Own Boss
HubPages Sign In Help
17 report
HubPages » Business and Employment » Small Businesses & Entrepreneurs
Working For Someone vs Being Your Own Boss Updated on April 10, 2013
We've all had them. Those
really bad
days at the office - days where you forget about the monthly bills, forget about the car / house repayments and just don't give a damn anymore. Days that make you want to clear your desk with a mighty swipe of your hand, days when you just see red - where you need to resist the urge to march into your bosses office and tell him to take his job and to
you-know-what . It's an interesting fantasy - one that I have at least once every couple of months. I picture myself gathering up my things, giving my colleagues a courageous wave goodbye, wishing them all the luck in the world - and walking (but really resisting the urge to run) out fearless (but trembling inside), with my head held high and a smile plastered to my face. Think
Jerry Maguire.
See all 9 photos
Tom Cruise plays Jerry Maguire, a Sports Agent who decides there's more to life than the average soul destroying 9 - 5 job.
When do You Know it's Time to Leave? Leaving a full time job where you are guaranteed a monthly salary for something less certain takes a lot of guts. Maybe you've just reached the point where you don't care anymore - where you'd rather be eating cans of beans and packets of soup, than have to face another day of working yourself to death in that soul destroying place known as
'the office'.
It might not be that bad - I might be over exaggerating. This however, was exactly how I felt 4 years ago.
I remember the day I made the decision to
leave my permanent
job clearly. I'd had been booked off for 2 weeks by the doctor that January with
Vertigo , after an incredible amount of
stress at work . During those two weeks of not being able to drive anywhere, focus on anything on TV and pretty much do anything besides sit quietly and think - I came to a decision. When I got back to work that week, I handed in my resignation letter without a second thought. I didn't have another job to go to, I hadn't looked at my budget - I'd done no planning at all. I had hit
rock bottom
with my health - to me, that was more important than being somebody's slave for eight hours a day. What for? Do you think someone's going to stand at your grave one day and say, "What a shame, she made such great coffee and those recons were something else! What will we do without her at the office?" Sadly, no - no one is going to care about what you did at work. You're going to leave behind family and friends who never got to see you because you were either working crazy hours at the office, or bringing the stress home every day.
The Fantasy of Becoming Your Own Boss
See all 9 photos
Source: anankkml, freedigitalphotos.net
See all 9 photos
Hamper for car dealer
See all 9 photos
Hamper for car dealer
See all 9 photos
"Thank You" mini gift
See all 9 photos
Beach themed wedding table gifts
See all 9 photos
Sweet wedding table gifts
See all 9 photos
My business logo
See all 9 photos
More wedding gifts and invitations
The Reality of Working for Yourself Working for yourself has it's perks, but I definitely wouldn't recommend quitting your day job if you don't have full family and
financial support behind you . Four years ago I sat down with my husband and asked him to stand behind me. I told him I'd move heaven and earth, that I'd give it my all - yes, we'd suffer a bit financially in the beginning - but, it wouldn't be anything that we couldn't handle. I said to him that I'd rather we scrape through for a few months and do something that I enjoy - that doesn't promote the rage, stress and depression I'd been bringing home every day, than risk it affecting our marriage or my health anymore. I was fortunate that during that year and a half of working for myself from home, that he didn't complain about the money (rather lack of it) - not even once. He stood behind me 100%.
Starting my
home business
was easy. I paid R150 to CIPRO (South Africa's business registration organization), and took a few days to decide on a catchy, short and appropriate business name. I decided to pursue my hobby at the time of creating
gift hampers
and small gifts and turn it into a
full time job . This seemed like the perfect idea, as I would be able to unleash my creativity
and
get paid for it. My husband designed the website and this gave him the opportunity to discover his creative side as well. He researched and put together the entire website of about 10 pages - an incredible job, and a
huge
achievement. I am so proud of what he accomplished.
During the first year I made gift hampers for all occasions - Mother's Day, Valentine's Day, Christmas, etc - but the most popular were the birthday hampers. I spent a lot of time on these as I customized each one to exactly what the client wanted. If they wanted sunflowers added to their basket - I arranged it, if they wanted a unique card added to their order - I designed and printed it, if they wanted it the same day - I made it happen. I knew that it would take a few years for my business to get off the ground properly and was prepared to go the distance. I found an Accountant to do my books for free, advertised my gifts in every possible medium - social media websites, blog pages, newsletters and flyers; and I just started to dip my toes into the wedding gift field. Unfortunately, a year after
working from home
my husband received news of being retrenched from his job. I knew then that I'd have to give up the dream I'd been living and go back to a permanent job. Luckily, he started a new job a month later and I was able to carry on with my business from home on a part time basis. I started an Au Pair job in the afternoons to bring in some extra money, worked a few hours in the morning for a catering company and did my business in between and at night. I enjoyed the variety of the 3 positions, but sadly - working part time, proved to take it's toll with me as orders started decreasing and I had less time to dedicate to my business. After a few months of selling hardly any hampers, I took a week to weigh out all the options and decided at the end of it to let go of my business and to go back to full day work. It was a very hard decision, knowing what we'd both put into the business (even looking at these images today makes my heart extremely heavy), but I knew that even keeping it on the sidelines while
working full day
- I wouldn't be able to give it my all. We were looking at financial stability and starting a family within a few years.
I'm currently working an 8 - 5 job, I don't hate it - but I miss the freedom I had while working at home. I'm happy that I receive a
monthly salary
and that I don't need to
stress
about buying proper food or paying the rent - but I miss the creativity I became accustomed to. Looking back, I'm glad I took the chance to start my
own small business
- that I had the opportunity to do it. I learned so many things about myself and about the way business works. I'm positive that I'll do something similar in the future - when we're in a position to do it, but for now - I'm happy to pay the bills, and go away on holiday when we can afford to.
The Checklist
Own Boss
The 9 - 5 Job
Work whenever you like
Work set hours
Answer to yourself
Answer to your boss
Unstable pay
Guarenteed monthly pay
Take a day off whenever you like
Take off when it suits the company
Probably need to work when you're sick
Can take time off to recover when sick
Gym at any time during the day
Gym before, after work or during lunch
Work from home
Sit through traffic
Feel isolated
In the company of colleagues
Make changes anytime
Run ideas by your boss first
Work until you get the job done
Work 9 - 5 and then go home
More in this Series 87 Home-Based Businesses Finding Happiness: Leaving a Full Day Job to Become a Freelance Writer I did it! After months of research and planning, weighing out pros and cons, checking of finances, and
most importantly - gaining the support of my husband - I found the courage to resign from my job at last, to become...
Recommended Hubs
Follow (9) Comments
17 comments Go to last comment
ctbrown7  3 years ago
Very good advice here.
Way to follow your dreams!
NeilsHotDeals  3 years ago
from New York
Great HUB
MelChi  3 years ago
from Cape Town, South Africa
Hub Author
@ctbrown7 - Thank you! I'm glad I was able to get a few advice tips across. Go dreams! :) @NeilsHotDeals - Thanks for reading :)
Millionaire Tips  3 years ago
from USA
Like you, I've had my time doing the 9-5 job and times doing the own boss thing.
You've listed the pros and cons very well.
I wish you the best in all your future endeavors.
MelChi  3 years ago
from Cape Town, South Africa
Hub Author
@Millionaire Tips - We are extremely fortunate to have had the opportunity to experience both, something I will never regret.
Thanks for stopping by :)
amithak50  3 years ago
from India
I never want to work for someone else whatever be the cost .Being my own boss is really great feeling even if you not earning much .Also,both side has benefits as well as loses but I will prefer working for myself ..Thanks for the nice hub
MelChi  3 years ago
from Cape Town, South Africa
Hub Author
@amithak50 - you are so right, there are many pros and cons to working for yourself as well as for working for someone else. It's my goal / dream / aim to be working for myself again within the next year or two though. Having experienced this, and seeing where I went wrong the first time, I am slowly putting steps into place to make this a reality again. Thanks for reading :)
mikeydcarroll67  3 years ago
I agree....I love working for myself but I'm getting ready to return to grad school so having a job is essential.
MelChi  3 years ago
from Cape Town, South Africa
Hub Author
Mikeydcarroll67 , it would be great to have the best of both when you want it, wouldn't it? Thanks for reading :)
mikeydcarroll67  3 years ago
yep that would be very nice!
Success For You  3 years ago
I have been a full time management consultant for 12 years now and absolutely love it, the freedom and flexibility is what makes the difference for me. The flexibility to consult, coach, author books, post blogs, and simply network with so many like-minded people is an awesome experience. I can now enjoy more of the quality of my time and not merely the quantity... Great posting, I'll continue to follow you!!!!!!
MelChi  3 years ago
from Cape Town, South Africa
Hub Author
Hi Success
For You - That is very inspirational! I think having flexibility and freedom to do what we are good at, what inspires and moves us, and what we are passionate about is one of the biggest gifts that we can ever imagine. I am a huge fan of working for yourself, although there are days I'm sure that I am going to miss that monthly salary. Hopefully in 12 years from now, I can look back and know I made the right decision. Thanks for stopping by and commenting! :)
Karine Gordineer  3 years ago
from Upstate New York
Level 2 Commenter
Hi Melanie - Wow! This one certainly struck a chord with me.
Sorry that your biz didn't work out the first time around.
I've actually been in my own biz twice now and had to go back to work FT for various reasons.
The second time though was quite viable.
You learn more and more.
In these times having multiple revenue streams certainly helps.
I think your checklist is valuable but honestly where I work now I feel more isolated than when I work at home alone and there's no such thing as 9 to 5...you work until the job is done.
It's like being in your own business without the benefits except the steady pay.
Also I worked about 2 years without even taking a sick day until recently. I know for some people it's just not possible to leave a "soul sucking" job but sometimes you just gotta put your heatlh and happiness first.
I'm glad you're new job is ok for you.
Don't give up on your dreams though!
Thanks for another great Hub!
MelChi  3 years ago
from Cape Town, South Africa
Hub Author
Hi Karine! Thank you so much for your kind words, and for sharing your views.
It's true what you say - there are pros and cons to working for someone and working for yourself, it just depends on the person and the situation of work I suppose. I'm glad to hear I'm not the only one who has had success and failure in both departments...but life is not static, and I think sometimes we just land in situations that aren't so great to test us, and see how far we can go - to see how strong we really are. I have one more week at my FT job, and then I'm going to be freelancing as a writer while working from home.
A decision I've been weighing up since January and I am both excited and terrified at the same time. But, I needed the change - my health was suffering in my current job, and I realized my passion was really writing. It was a now or never situation. A full time job certainly has its benefits...at least you will be able to afford a vacation every now and then - something I'll have to put on hold for a couple of years. There's no perfect job out there - it just depends on what's really important and what you are able to do at the time.
RoVeE  2 years ago
from Milan, Italy
Great hub!
I myself is searching for work/job at home, too.
MelChi  2 years ago
from Cape Town, South Africa
Hub Author
Thanks RoVeE - Working from home is indeed a blessing, but it's not as easy as it seems, otherwise then I suppose everyone would be doing it! :) But, with the way technology is advancing today, I wouldn't be surprised if we saw a lot more people doing this in the near future.
Joseph Vandyke  2 years ago
I agree, it's not easy but definitely worth it! Sign in
or
sign up
and post using a HubPages account. 0 of 8192 characters used Post Comment No HTML is allowed in comments, but URLs will be hyperlinked. Comments are not for promoting your Hubs or other sites.
working
Melanie Chisnall (MelChi) 516 Followers 51 Hubs MORE BY THIS AUTHOR Home Living: Fun and Easy Ways to Decorate A Room - A Creative Project for the Whole Family What To Do When You Receive Bad Customer Service Animals Near Extinction, Abused and Neglected - Let's Be Their Voice!
Popular 5 Business Ideas 101 Coffee Shop and Cafe Name Ideas by
Jared Miles
44 Mail Order & Internet/Web Businesses How To Build Your Own Online Dating Website Business by
really?
11 Selling From Home Creative Workshop Teachings from Home by
Nadine May
Related 5 Specific Career Jobs How to Get a Job in a Cabinet Minister's Office on Parliament Hill in Ottawa by
renegadetory
0 Job Loss, Quitting & Getting Laid Off How to Leave Your Job on Good Terms with Your Employer by
A Fresh Start After Forty
0 Leadership How to Deal with a Change in Management: Tips for Working with a New Boss by
A Fresh Start After Forty
17 Small Businesses & Entrepreneurs The pros and cons of Google Voice for small business by
Tony Lawrence
2 Employment & Jobs Pros and Cons of Being an Independent Contractor: The Good, The Bad, and the Ugly of a Freelance Job by
Cassidy Michael Kakin
Click to Rate This Article How good is this article?
Please rate this article using the scale below. The scale is from 1 to 10, where 10 is the best and 1 is the worst.
Your Rating:
?
submit
HubPages About Us Copyright Copyright © 2015 HubPages Inc. and respective owners. Other product and company names shown may be trademarks of their respective owners. HubPages ®
is a registered Service Mark of HubPages, Inc. HubPages and Hubbers (authors) may earn revenue on this page based on affiliate relationships and advertisements with partners including Amazon, eBay, Google, and others. terms of use
privacy policy
(0.31 sec)
working