Good Lord! *Choke*: Supernatural Superheroes | Defending Regicide
but I be knowing the schemes
Search
Defending Regicide
All About Me
RSS
Good Lord! *Choke*: Supernatural Superheroes
12
Aug
I
mentioned
already that one thing I like a lot about crappy horror comics from the 1960s and 70s is that they consist of encapsulated, one-off stories that don’t involve superheroes and their stupid fucking personal dilemmas. However, I was
lying
when I wrote that. Horror comics (and their nearly identical cousins,
war
comics) would routinely showcase heroes and serial stories in an effort to get people to buy the stupid things on a regular basis. In the post-Golden Age era, I think the first hero team created solely to deal with supernatural and monster-sized threats was Jack Kirby’s
Challengers of the Unknown,
who debuted in a decidedly non-horror comic,
Showcase
number six. Consisting of four daredevils with no super powers, the Challengers would take on any job too dangerous or weird for usual government task forces and agencies, which implies that until they came on the scene we were totally vulnerable to countless attacks by inter-dimensional squid and gigantic beasts made entirely from atomic energy.
There were often regular serial features included in these horror comics, almost always to bad effect (and quite often, only in the DC titles).
Dr. 13:
The Ghost-Breaker was featured as the last story in issues of
Ghosts
from 1980-1981, questionably chronicling a character who debunked hauntings in a comic titled
If You Don’t Believe in
GHOSTS
We Challenge You to Read True Tales of the Weird and Supernatural.
Johnny Peril,
an “adventurer of the weird,” was featured in issues of
The Unexpected.
And most of these DC horror comics were hosted by some forgettable Vampira reject (no dis to
Cain and Abel ), a throwback to EC Comics’
trio
of witches that hosted their horror titles. But there is one group of superheroes who, though they arguably did not debut in the pages of any horror comic, are the best defenders of humanity against supernatural forces bar none. And that group of heroes is known as the Doom Patrol.
I first became familiar with the Doom Patrol when I was in my first year of junior high and
Grant Morrison
had taken over writing duties for a resurrected version of this weird team’s title. I was unaware of their legacy at the time, though it didn’t impede my enjoyment of the series under Morrison’s authorship one bit. I read it for a little while, until my dad quit
working
for DC Comics (for the second time) and I stopped thinking about the Doom Patrol. I forgot about the series completely, in fact, until the late 1990s when I began creeping my way back into comics by way of trade collections and saw it in a burgeoning section of
Vertigo
titles at
Cosmic Comics
on West 23rd Street (now Manhattan Comics under seemingly new ownership). I remembered having enjoyed the series as a pubescent pre-teen and vowed to pick it up again sometime, after I’d waded through
The Preacher
and collections of Alan Moore’s
Swamp Thing.
Having already tested the comic years earlier, I felt sure that I would like it, unlike my hit-or-miss attempts at reading
DMZ
or
Ex Machina.
And then, I forgot about it for another eight years.
Eventually, I read through Morrison’s run on
Doom Patrol
and loved every weird, surreal minute of it. It was, and remains, the best self-aware comic–yes, even better than Morrison’s
Animal Man
and John Byrne’s
She-Hulk –and this title is truly the only one of its type. There are plenty of superhero teams with weird abilities that secretly keep the space-time continuum in check, but how many of them also have issues dedicated to complete
parody
and satire of other genres? I read through the entire six paperback run of
Doom Patrol
in about a week, then re-read it, then did something I could never have done when I read the first issue in 1987: I went on the internet and did a search for “ Doom Patrol. ” And there, I made a startling discovery: Grant Morrison’s
Doom Patrol
wasn’t the first one, in fact it wasn’t even the
second
or the
third.
The first
Doom Patrol
series began publication in 1963, a few months before John Kennedy’s
brains
splattered his wife’s dress in the back of a convertible in Dallas. At that point, being who I am, I determined to read the original series and learn more about this strange group of freaks that saved the world so many times from unseen and incomprehensible disasters.
Then, I forgot about it for three more years.
About a month ago, I was poking around that venerable New York institution
The Strand,
and I discovered volumes 1-4 of the
DC Classics Archives
edition
of
Doom Patrol
at a very affordable price, and I quickly snapped them up. I am no stranger to the Silver Age of comic books, having learned long ago to read these titles with my tongue planted firmly in cheek when regarding the patently obvious pandering and ridiculous
pseudo-science
that is their hallmark. I began reading these hardback editions, and you know…I started to like them.
Really
like them, not just in a detached, ironic way. The Doom Patrol were freaks, yes, and their stories formulaic and largely predictable (though I could never have predicted a villain as stupid and weird as
Animal-Vegetable-Mineral Man ), and yet there was something more real about these odd characters, more real to me than billionaire Bruce Wayne or zit-faced
Peter Parker.
The action is telegraphed: wheelchair-bound leader Niles Caulder gets a distress signal and sends the team out to deal with some incorrigible disaster. But in between the action, there are quips, quarrels, self-reflective statements that make these fictional mutants seem much more human. There’s even a marriage and an adoption within the series, a rare Silver Age moment where there’s a change to the plot that isn’t wiped away by the next issue. I think the best example of this kind of chicanery was when the Doom Patrol set out to find a group of atomic mutants bent on destroying the world with their eerie mutant powers (which consisted of them shooting rays out of their eyes and/or limbs). The team splits up to cover more ground, and in doing so two ancillary members of the group, Mento and his adopted son
Beast Boy
(later
Changeling,
then
Beast Boy
again) discover the Abominable Snowman. The creature starts to attack, but Beast Boy thwarts the Snowman by showing him a picture of Alfred E. Newman of
MAD
magazine fame. It’s a little aside that has nothing to do with the immediate story but which sets the tone for the series nicely.
I liked the first four volumes so much, I went and found the final, fifth volume, where the Doom Patrol actually
sacrifices
their lives in order to save a remote fishing village in Maine (under stupidly complicated circumstances, take my word for it). How many comic book series end with the protagonists
dying ? However, no comic book series ever “ends,” as evidenced by the subsequent versions of the Doom Patrol that
continue
to the date of this writing. Having read only two authors’ work on it, I am far from an expert, but in my opinion the Doom Patrol are the best bunch of supernatural superheroes, or perhaps superheroes of the supernatural, in comic books. If only they’d been building superintendents, they’d be supernatural superhero supers.
I can’t end this without addressing a bit of controversy: the contention that Marvel Comics
bit
the idea for the X-Men from DC Comics’
Doom Patrol,
and the lesser controversy that the idea for the Doom Patrol came from Marvel’s
Fantastic Four.
Those uncanny Marvel muties debuted three months after
Doom Patrol,
suggesting that a direct cribbing is unlikely, yet a salacious rumor persists that shadowy double
agents
of Marvel overheard
Arnold Drake
pitching the idea for
Doom Patrol
and scurried back to Stan Lee to divulge this million-dollar notion. Except it didn’t actually
make
DC a million dollars, so clearly the concept was wielded more effectively by Kirby and Lee. Whatever the case and its thin premises, I don’t think it matters who came up with the idea first. Sympathetic
uglies
have been saviors of luscious damsels throughout literary history, and if these guys hadn’t thought up the idea, some other loser eventually would have. In conclusion, comic books are for nerds and if you’ve read this to the end then you definitely are one.
Rate this: Sharing is caring. Facebook Twitter Tumblr Pinterest Google More Print Reddit Email Like this: Like
Loading...
Related
Tags:
1970s ,
Challengers of the Unknown ,
comic books ,
Doom Patrol ,
horror comics ,
Martian Manhunter
Comments
1 Comment
Categories
comic books ,
culture ,
memories ,
visual art
←
I Am Not a Graffiti Artist. I’m a Graffiti Bomber.
Fucking. Walk.
→
One Response to “Good Lord! *Choke*: Supernatural Superheroes”
Trackbacks/Pingbacks
Good Lord! *Choke* « Defending Regicide
-
August 12, 2011
[…] as I will show in part two of this essay, they can be about all of those things, and more. Rate this:
Sharing is […]
Leave a Reply
Cancel reply
Enter your comment here...
Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:
Email
(required)
(Address never made public)
Name
(required)
Website
You are commenting using your WordPress.com account.
(  Log Out  /  Change  )
You are commenting using your Twitter account.
(  Log Out  /  Change  )
You are commenting using your Facebook account.
(  Log Out  /  Change  )
You are commenting using your Google+ account.
(  Log Out  /  Change  )
Cancel
Connecting to %s
Notify me of new comments via email.
What is now
9 Secrets Only Happy People Know (And They Ain’t Tellin’!)
Your Rights as a Homophobe
The Mind’s Eye
Larry “Bud” Melman, We Hardly Knew Ye
I Don’t Know Why You Say Ello, I Say Goodbye
What once was
What once was
Select Month
September 2015  (1)
June 2015  (2)
May 2015  (1)
September 2014  (2)
August 2014  (1)
May 2014  (1)
March 2014  (1)
August 2013  (1)
May 2013  (1)
March 2013  (2)
February 2013  (3)
January 2013  (1)
December 2012  (4)
November 2012  (3)
October 2012  (6)
September 2012  (1)
April 2012  (3)
February 2012  (5)
January 2012  (7)
December 2011  (2)
November 2011  (3)
October 2011  (5)
September 2011  (3)
August 2011  (5)
July 2011  (5)
June 2011  (9)
May 2011  (7)
April 2011  (13)
March 2011  (15)
February 2011  (28)
January 2011  (4)
What I’m writing about 30 Rock
1970s
1980s
Alan Moore
Alec Baldwin
America
babies
baby
ball pit
Barack Obama
Batman
blood
cartoons
CBS
cgi
Christianity
Christians
comic books
comic strips
Community
creative writing
Cypress Hill
Daniel Radosh
DC Comics
evangelism
exploitation
facebook
family
feminism
Flash
foam rubber costumes
God
graffiti
grandma
hip-hop
Human Tornado
JA
Jesus Christ
Judaism
kung fu
Liz Lemon
marijuana
men
minecraft
misogyny
movies
NBC
New York City
parenting
politics
PS3
racism
rap
Rapture Ready!
religion
Ryan Reynolds
self esteem
sex
sitcom
Style Wars
sucks
Superman
Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles
television
Tracy Morgan
tumblr
TV
twitter
Unitarian Universalism
video games
Watchmen
Wii
women
XBox
youth SUBSCRIBE!
Enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Join 496 other followers
instead of this shit, you should read
syffal.com
Insane interviews with indie rockers.
Phat Friend
He makes rap music, but don't hold that against him.
Armagideon Time
A blog after my own nerdly heart.
Wishing On a Star
Don't let the title confuse, this bitch will cut you in real life.
Copyright Karl Gold © 2012
Create a free website or blog at WordPress.com .
The Bueno Theme .
Follow
Follow “Defending Regicide”
Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.
Join 496 other followers
Build a website with WordPress.com
Send to Email Address
Your Name
Your Email Address
Cancel
Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
%d
bloggers like this: