Barangay Saint Christine: What Time is It Now?
Pages
Home
Rapture by Rory Moore
Integrity by Erlhynda Rosel
Tuesday, October 12, 2010
What Time is It Now?
The End Time IS here now. Text in Red Bold is the author of this blog, all others are copied from internet. The below article tells the story. Many Religious Leaders (Except for Franklin Graham) Support Mosque By
Elizabeth Dias
Wednesday, Aug. 18, 2010
From left: Getty Images; Seth Wenig / AP; Corbis
TIME conducted interviews with eight prominent, diverse religious
voices in the U.S. on the subject of the so-called Ground Zero mosque
and community center in New York City. With the exception of Franklin
Graham, the leaders appear committed to religious freedom, though a few
worry that the funding for the mosque as well as its political and
religious agenda have not been fully disclosed. Read more:
http://www.time.com/time/nation/article/0,8599,2011614,00.html#ixzz128YqABgw
Heidi Hadsell, president of the
Hartford Seminary
Hadsell supports the building of the mosque near the site of the Sept. 11 attacks. Hartford established a groundbreaking Christian-Muslim seminary program in the 1970s and has done some of the most innovative and leading work on Christian-Muslim dialogue. Meanwhile, in nearby Bridgeport, Conn., a similar mosque controversy is developing.
• "I'm afraid that politicians have gotten hold of this and are using it to pander to extreme voices that are really Islamophobic. The real issues get lost in the battle. I think theologically , there is nothing inside of Christianity that would indicate that we are to treat people of other religions with anything but the utmost respect and friendship."
• "Christians need to speak out. My guess is they are speaking out and they are not being heard. The voices that are being heard are the more strident voices."
• "I think it's important for Christians across the country to hear what Christian leaders are saying and not just what right-wing politicians are saying. I think people ... get confused unless their own religious leadership speaks up. The noise isn't coming from religious leaders; it's coming from politicians. In the main part, religious leaders are not attacking this mosque. The main part is politicians who are attacking this mosque hoping for votes.
• "If people would just calm down, it could go forward and in a few years people would see it doing exactly what [the mosque supporters] said it would do."
• "The notion that one serves one's own faith by knocking down another faith is false. One serves one's faith by living up to the ideals of that faith. The ideals of Christianity, like the ideals of Islam and Judaism, are peaceful ideals. They are ideals of constructing peaceful and productive relationships with neighbors. The responsibility is to live up to the ideals of one's religion and not sink to the lowest fears." Read more:
http://www.time.com/time/nation/article/0,8599,2011614,00.html#ixzz128P6VmZd
there is nothing inside of Christianity that would indicate that we are to treat people of other religions with anything but the utmost respect and friendship."
I beg to differ there Miss, copied below is a compilation of articles freely available on the internet, that’s where I got them. If you don’t know how to find them yourself, you were not taught properly in the first place. I have pity on any that are not aware of the stories and truths in the Holy Bible, the WHOLE thing, not the first 5 books, or just the Old Testament, but the WHOLE HOLY BIBLE.
The writing in the Good Book is a blueprint for how we as humans should live. This has become so evident to me since moving to the Philippines. In a predominantly Roman Catholic Nation, very many of the Christian attitudes, principals, and values that I grew up with in America, are lacking here. There are many who already know this.
Recent events tell clearly what time it is. I could site many, but I’ll focus on just one.
On May 30 th
this year, a “Freedom Flotilla”, auspiciously carrying humanitarian relief challenged the Blockade of Gaza.
Read the story
to get the full insight, but let’s say that Israel handled itself with Honor, and the rest of the world is not. Obama wants an investigation into Israel’s handling of the event, when Israel’s display showed Honorable intentions by; Only using non-lethal weapons as primary weapons, after many warnings to the flotilla. After it was over Israel in what can only be frames as a Godly Act of Forgiveness, released everyone. What more do you want? What more can Israel do? Where are the ones that should be coming to Israel’s defense? Do you want another Holocaust Stain on our hands before the Lord?
I’m afraid that one thing is true right now, the End Time is here, and nothing that any of us can do will change that. All of us must dig deep within our souls and bring out compassion for other True Believers, but also for those who are not the descendants of Cain. I remember so well my good father explaining to me as I was growing up. I raised the point at the dinner table one evening, that the famine in Africa was so bad. He proceeded to lecture me about the reasons for that. Those reasons are straight out of the Holy Bible, some which are copied below. But first let’s define who Cain and Able was, so we will know Cain’s descendants. All links are active; only right click them, and open in new tab, unless you want to navigate away from this article.
The entire article is great information, however I take no credit for any of it, other people already made this available, I’ve just collected it here. The most important quick information points are near the begining.
In the
Hebrew Bible ,
Cain and Abel
(Hebrew:
קין
, הבל ,
Hevel ,
Qayin ) [1]
are two sons of
Adam and Eve . The
Qur'an
mentions the story calling them The two sons of Adam (Arabic:
إبني
آدم ) only, [2]
while the names Qabil (Arabic:
قابيل ) and Habil (Arabic:
هابيل ) are used in other sources of Islamic literature. In the Greek New Testament, Cain is referred to as
εκ του πονηρου.
[3]
In at least one translation this is rendered "from the evil one", [4]
while others have "of the evil one." [5]
Some interpreters take this to mean that Cain was literally the son of the serpent in the
Garden of Eden . A parallel idea can be found in Jewish tradition, [6]
that the serpent (Hebrew
nahash
נחש ) from the Garden of Eden was father to firstborn Cain. In all versions, Cain is a crop farmer and his younger brother Abel is a shepherd. [7]
Cain is portrayed as sinful, committing the first murder by killing his brother, [8]
after God [9]
has rejected his offerings of produce but accepted the animal sacrifices brought by Abel. [10]
The oldest known copy of the Biblical narration is from the 1st century
Dead Sea Scrolls . [11] [12]
Cain and Abel also appear in a number of other texts, [13]
and the story is the subject of various interpretations. [14]
Abel, the first murder victim, is sometimes seen as the first
martyr ; [15]
while Cain, the first murderer, is sometimes seen as an ancestor of
evil . [16]
1 Adam knew his wife Eve intimately, and she conceived and gave birth to Cain. She said, "I have had a male child with the L ORD 's help." [31]
2 Then she also gave birth to his brother Abel. Now Abel became a shepherd of a flock, but Cain cultivated the land.
3 In the course of time Cain presented some of the land's produce as an offering to the L ORD .
4 And Abel also presented [an offering] [32]
— some of the firstborn of his flock and their fat portions. [33]
The Lord had regard for Abel and his offering,
5 but He did not have regard for Cain and his offering. Cain was furious, and he was downcast. [34]
6 Then the L ORD
said to Cain, "Why are you furious? And why are you downcast? [35]
7 If you do right, won't you be accepted? But if you do not do right, sin is crouching at the door. Its desire is for you, but you must master it."
8 Cain said to his brother Abel, "Let's go out to the field." [36]
And while they were in the field, Cain attacked his brother Abel and killed him. –
Genesis 4:1-8 ( HCSB Copied from Wikipedia
Murder and motive For convenience, the story can be considered in two sections — 1. murder and motive and 2. confrontation and consequences.
Religious sources of the Cain and Abel story can be found in
Genesis
(950 to 450 BC) in the
Hebrew Bible , Sura 5 ( Al-Ma'ida ) of the
Qur'an
(early 7th century) and
Pearl of Great Price
(1851). [30]
[ edit ]
Biblical account (Judaeo-Christian)
Cain leads Abel to death , by
James Tissot .
1 Adam knew his wife Eve intimately, and she conceived and gave birth to Cain. She said, "I have had a male child with the L ORD 's help." [31]
2 Then she also gave birth to his brother Abel. Now Abel became a shepherd of a flock, but Cain cultivated the land.
3 In the course of time Cain presented some of the land's produce as an offering to the L ORD .
4 And Abel also presented [an offering] [32]
— some of the firstborn of his flock and their fat portions. [33]
The Lord had regard for Abel and his offering,
5 but He did not have regard for Cain and his offering. Cain was furious, and he was downcast. [34]
6 Then the L ORD
said to Cain, "Why are you furious? And why are you downcast? [35]
7 If
you do right, won't you be accepted? But if you do not do right, sin is
crouching at the door. Its desire is for you, but you must master it."
8 Cain said to his brother Abel, "Let's go out to the field." [36]
And while they were in the field, Cain attacked his brother Abel and killed him.
–
Genesis 4:1-8 ( HCSB) The
Septuagint
has a different verse 7:
Hast thou not sinned if thou hast brought it rightly, but not rightly
divided it? be still, to thee shall be his submission, and thou shalt
rule over him. [37] [ edit ]
Motives Though Genesis depicts Cain's motive in killing Abel as simply being
one of jealousy concerning God's favor for Abel, this is not the view of
many extra-biblical works. The
Midrash
and the
Conflict of Adam and Eve with Satan
both record that the real motive involved the desire of women.
According to Midrashic tradition, Cain and Abel each had twin sisters,
whom they were to marry. The Midrash records that Abel's promised wife
was the more beautiful. Cain would not consent to this arrangement. Adam
proposed to refer the question to God by means of a sacrifice. God
rejected Cain's sacrifice, signifying His disapproval of his marriage
with Aclima, and Cain slew his brother in a fit of jealousy. [38]
[ edit ]
Abel's death
Adam and Eve mourn the death of Abel,
In
Christianity , comparisons are sometimes made between the death of Abel and that of
Jesus , the former thus seen as being the first
martyr : in
Matthew 23:35 , Jesus speaks of Abel as
righteous ; and the
Epistle to the Hebrews
states that
The blood of sprinkling ... [speaks] better things than that of Abel
( Hebrews 12:24 ). The blood of Jesus is interpreted as bringing mercy; but that of Abel as demanding vengeance (hence the curse and mark). [39]
Abel is invoked in the
litany
for the dying in
Roman Catholic Church , and his sacrifice is mentioned in the
Canon of the Mass
with those of
Abraham
and
Melchizedek . The
Coptic Church
commemorates him with a
feast day
on December 28. [40]
[ edit ]
Burial According to the Qur'an, Cain (Kabil) buried Abel (Habil), prompted
to do so by a single raven scratching the ground, on God's command. The
Qur'an states that upon seeing the raven, Cain regretted his action
[al-Ma'idah:27-31], and that rather than being cursed by God, since He
hadn't done so before, God chose to create a law against murder:
If anyone slew a person – be it for murder or for spreading mischief
in the land – it would be as if he slew the whole people; and if anyone
saved a life, it would be as if he saved the life of the whole people . According to
Shi'a Muslim
belief, Abel is buried in
Nabi Habeel Mosque , located west of
Damascus , in
Syria .
[ edit ]
Underworld In classical times, as well as more recently, Abel was regarded as
the first innocent victim of the power of evil, and hence the first
martyr. In the
Book of Enoch
(at 22:7), the soul of Abel is described as having been appointed as
the chief of martyrs, crying for vengeance, for the destruction of the
seed of Cain. This view is later repeated in the
Testament of Abraham
(at A:13 / B:11), where Abel has been raised to the position as the judge of the souls:
An awful man sitting upon the throne to judge all creatures, and
examining the righteous and the sinners. He being the first to die as
martyr, God brought him hither [to the place of judgment in the nether
world] to give judgment, while
Enoch ,
the heavenly scribe, stands at his side writing down the sin and the
righteousness of each. For God said: I shall not judge you, but each man
shall be judged by man. Being descendants of the first man, they shall
be judged by his son until the great and glorious appearance of the
Lord, when they will be judged by the twelve tribes of Israel, and then
the last judgment by the Lord Himself shall be perfect and unchangeable. According to the
Coptic
Book of Adam and Eve
(at 2:1-15), and the
Syriac
Cave of Treasures , Abel's body, after many days of mourning, was placed in the
Cave of Treasures , before which Adam and Eve, and descendants, offered their prayers. In addition, the
Sethite
line of the
Generations of Adam
swear by Abel's blood to segregate themselves from the
unrighteous .
[ edit ]
Confrontation and consequences
[ edit ]
Bible
Cain, by
Henri Vidal ,
Jardin des Tuileries ,
Paris
9 Then the Lord said to Cain, "Where is your brother Abel?"
"I know not," he replied. "Am I my brother's keeper?"
10 Then He said, "What have you done? Your brother's blood cries out to Me from the ground!
11 So now you are cursed [with alienation] [41]
from the ground that opened its mouth to receive your brother's blood you have shed.
12 If you work the land, it will never again give you its yield. You will be a restless wanderer on the earth."
13 But Cain answered the Lord, "My punishment [42]
is too great to bear!
14 Since
You are banishing me today from the soil, and I must hide myself from
Your presence and become a restless wanderer on the earth, whoever finds
me will kill me."
15 Then the Lord replied to him, "Therefore, [43]
whosoever slayeth Cain vengeance will be taken on him sevenfold. " [44]
And the Lord set a Mark upon Cain, lest any finding him should kill him.
16 Then Cain went out from the Lord's presence and lived in the
land of Nod , east of
Eden .
–
Genesis 4:9-16 (HCSB) [ edit ]
Qur'an and Sunnah The story with the motives and the aftermath of the killing is mentioned in Surat Al-Ma'ida Verse 27 - 32 [45] :
27. Recite to them the truth of the story of the two sons of Adam.
Behold! they each presented a sacrifice (to Allah): It was accepted from
one, but not from the other. Said the latter: "Be sure I will slay
thee." "Surely," said the former, "(Allah) doth accept of the sacrifice
of those who are righteous.
28. "If thou dost stretch thy hand against me, to slay me, it is not for
me to stretch my hand against thee to slay thee: for I do fear Allah,
the cherisher of the worlds.
29. "For me, I intend to let thee draw on thyself my sin as well as
thine, for thou wilt be among the companions of the fire, and that is
the reward of those who do wrong."
30. The (selfish) soul of the other led him to the murder of his
brother: he murdered him, and became (himself) one of the lost ones.
31. Then Allah sent a raven, who scratched the ground, to show him how
to hide the shame of his brother. "Woe is me!" said he; "Was I not even
able to be as this raven, and to hide the shame of my brother?" then he
became full of regrets.
32. On that account: We ordained for the Children of Israel that if
anyone killed a person not in retaliation of murder, or (and) to spread
mischief in the land - it would be as if he slew the whole people: and
if any one saved a life, it would be as if he saved the life of the
whole people. Then although there came to them Our apostles with clear
signs, yet, even after that, many of them continued to commit excesses
in the land. There is Hadith in Al-Bukari that tells of the consequences Qabil shall take because of slaying his brother: [46]
Narrated by Sufian Athaouri, from Al-A'amash, from Abdullah ibn
Murrah, from Masrouq, from Abdullah ibn Mas'oud, that Mohammad said: "No
human being is killed unjustly, but a part of responsibility for the
crime is laid on the first son of Adam who invented the tradition of
killing (murdering) on the earth." [ edit ]
Mark of Cain Main article:
Curse and mark of Cain
Much has been written about the curse of Cain, and associated
mark . The word translated as
mark
( 'Oth ,
אות ) could mean a sign, omen, warning, or remembrance. [47]
In the Bible, the same word is used to describe the stars as signs or omens, [48]
circumcision
as a token of God's covenant with
Abraham , [49]
and the signs performed by
Moses
before
Pharaoh . [50]
The word
Ot (hard t)
in
Hebrew
also means "a letter" (of the alphabet).
Jewish mysticism ,
among other ancient lores, assigns spiritual ideas or powers to written
letters and verses. The Mark of Cain may be a letter, a verse, a
message, or a
talisman .
The Bible makes reference on several occasions to
Kenites , who, in the Hebrew, are referred to as Qayin, i.e. in a highly
cognate
manner to Cain (Qayin). Some therefore believe that the Mark of Cain
referred originally to some very identifying mark of the Kenite tribe,
such as red hair, or a ritual tattoo of some kind, which was transferred
to Cain as the tribe's eponym. The mark is said to afford Cain some
form of protection, in that harming Cain involved the harm being
returned sevenfold. This is hence seen as some sort of protection that
membership of the tribe offered, in a form such as the entire tribe
attacking an individual who harms just one of their number.
Baptist [ citation needed ]
and
Catholic [ citation needed ]
groups both consider the idea of God cursing an individual to be out of
character, and hence take a different stance. Catholics officially view
the curse being brought through the ground itself refusing to yield to,
not being in harmony with, Cain [ citation needed ] ,
whereas some Baptists view the curse as Cain's own aggression,
something already present that God merely pointed out rather than added.
There are several theories; in the Catholic world one example has been
put forth that rather this mark is one of grace, and that perhaps the
mark of is that of Abel's blood, [51]
by which God is saying, "This man is still mine. Vengeance is mine. I
will repay. Hands off!" As the heart of God is always ready to show
mercy. This view supports Abel as a Christ figure in paralleling
Christ’s sacrifice; here a blood sacrifice which acknowledges guilt and
counting himself as guilty seeks atonement (this is in contrast to
Cain's sacrifice) [52]
In
Judaism ,
the mark is not a punishment but a sign of God's mercy. When Cain was
sentenced to be a wanderer he did not dispute the punishment but only
begged that the terms of his sentence be altered slightly [ citation needed ] ,
protesting "Whoever meets me will kill me!" For unspecified reasons,
God agrees to this request. He puts the mark on Cain as a sign to others
that Cain should not be killed until he has had seven generations of
children. Lamech, Cain's descendant, refers poetically to the "mark of
Cain" in
Genesis 4:19-24 , in a passage which has been subject to several interpretations.
[ edit ]
Wanderer As Abel's murderer, Cain was commanded to wander the earth in
punishment, a tradition arose that this punishment was to be forever, in
a similar manner to the (much later) legends of the
Flying Dutchman
or the
Wandering Jew . According to some
Islamic
sources, such as
al-Tabari ,
Ibn Kathir
and
al-Tha'labi , he migrated to
Yemen .
Cain flying before Jehovah's Curse
Musée d'Orsay ,
Paris . Though variations on these traditions were strong in medieval times, with several claims of
sightings
being reported, they have generally gone out of favour. Nevertheless, the Wandering Cain theme has appeared in
Mormon folklore
(but not scripture)—a second-hand account relates that an early Mormon leader,
David W. Patten , encountered a very tall, hairy, dark-skinned man in
Tennessee
who said that he was Cain. The account states that Cain had earnestly
sought death but was denied it, and that his mission was to destroy the
souls of men. [53] [54]
The recollection of Patten's story is quoted in
Spencer W. Kimball 's
The Miracle of Forgiveness , a popular book within
The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints . [55]
This widespread Mormon belief is further emphasized by an account from
Salt Lake City in 1963 which stated that "One superstition is based on
the old Mormon belief that Cain is a black man who wanders the earth
begging people to kill him and take his curse upon themselves (M, 24,
SLC, 1963)." [56]
Despite these later traditional beliefs of perpetual wandering, according to the earlier
Book of Jubilees
(chapter 4) Cain settled down, marrying his sister,
Awan , resulting in his first son,
Enoch
(considered to be different from the more famous
Enoch ),
approximately 196 years after the creation of Adam. Cain then
established the first city, naming it after his son, built a house, and
lived there until it collapsed on him, killing him in the same year that
Adam died.
A medieval legend used to say that at the end, Cain arrived at the
Moon, where he eternally settled with a bundle of twigs. This was
originated by popular fantasy interpreting
the shadows on the Moon face . An example of this belief can be found in
Dante Alighieri 's
Inferno
(XX, 126 [57] ) where the expression "Cain and the twigs" is used as a synonym of "moon".
[ edit ]
Legacy and symbolism
15th century depiction of Cain and Abel
In
medieval Christian art , particularly in 16th century
Germany , Cain is depicted as a stereotypical
ringleted , bearded Jew, who killed Abel the blonde, European
gentile
symbolizing Christ. [58]
This traditional depiction has continued for centuries in some form, such as
James Tissot 's 19th century
Cain leads Abel to Death .
Another view is taken in
Latter-day Saint theology , where Cain is considered to be the quintessential
Son of Perdition , the father of
secret combinations
(i.e. secret societies and
organized crime ), as well as the first to hold the title
Master Mahan
meaning
master of [the] great secret, that [he] may murder and get gain . [ citation needed ]
The treatise on Christian Hermeticism,
Meditations on the Tarot: A journey into Christian Hermeticism ,
describes the Biblical account of Cain and Abel as a myth, ie. it
expresses, in a form narrated for a particular case, an "eternal" idea.
It shows us how brothers can become mortal enemies through the very fact
that they worship the same God in the same way. According to the
author, the source of religious wars is revealed. It is not the
difference in dogma or ritual which is the cause, but the "pretention to
equality" or "the negation of hierarchy". [59]
[ edit ]
Literature As the first murderer and first murder victim, Cain and Abel have often formed the basis of tragic drama.
Lord Byron
rewrote and dramatized the story in the poem " Cain ", viewing Cain as symbolic of a sanguinary temperament, provoked by Abel's hypocrisy and sanctimony. [58]
In
Dante 's
Purgatory
Cain is remembered by the souls in
Purgatory
in Canto XIV (14) on page 153, verse 133 saying "I shall be slain by
all who find me!", Cain is facing the punishment that God has visited
upon him for the sin of Envy, which is a similar play on the words in
Genesis 4:13-14
where he says, "I shall be a fugitive and a wanderer on the earth, and whoever finds me will kill me."
John Steinbeck 's novel
East of Eden
retells the Cain and Abel story in the setting of the late 19th and early 20th century western migration towards
California . Also, his novelette
Of Mice and Men
draws elements from the story.
Baudelaire
is more sympathetic to Cain in his poem "Abel et Caïn" in the collection
Les Fleurs du mal ,
where he depicts Cain as representing all the downtrodden people of the
world. The poem's last lines exhort, "Race de Caïn, au ciel monte/Et
sur la terre jette Dieu!" (In English: "Race of Cain, storm up the sky /
And cast God down to Earth!")
Miguel de Unamuno 's
Abel Sánchez
(1917) is a study on envy. Abel receives everything undeservingly,
while his friend Joaquín is despised by God and society and envies him.
In
Thornton Wilder 's play
The Skin Of Our Teeth
(1942), it is stated that Henry Antrobus' real name is Cain and he accidentally killed is brother Abel with a stone.
Kane and Abel
is a modern adaptation, a 1979 novel by British author
Jeffrey Archer . In 1985, it was made into a
CBS
television
miniseries
titled
Kane & Abel , starring
Peter Strauss
as Rosnovski and
Sam Neill
as Kane. In
A Time For Everything
(2004) by
Karl Ove Knausgård , the story of Cain and Abel is retold with a focus on Cain - an
introvert
and troubled man who gets the reader's sympathy. In this version, God's
favouring of Abel is simultaneously a curse for sneaking into
Eden
past the
Cherubs
guarding the gate. It is suggested that Abel in fact wants Cain to kill
him, or at least this is what Cain believes - though he later regrets
his act, and takes his punishment willingly.
Hermann Hesse
briefly discussed the story of Cain and Abel from a non-orthodox point of view in his novel
Demian
where he also referred to the gnostic group called the
Cainites . In
Ishmael ,
Daniel Quinn
puts forth the idea of the story of Cain and Abel being an allegory
describing the conflict between agricultural and pastoral peoples in the
Fertile Crescent .
The author of
Dracula ,
Bram Stoker , revisits the biblical tragedy in his story " The return of Abel Behena " about a fraternal friendship gone awry.
Some form of legacy or curse of the name is often seen in literature: the monster
Grendel
in
Beowulf
is a descendant of Cain. In the
epilogue
to
Agatha Christie 's novel
And Then There Were None , the author refers to the
Mark of Cain
in laying out the clues. There is a
Stephen King
short story titled
Cain Rose Up , in which a college student goes on a killing spree while ruminating on the story of Cain and Abel. In the
DC Comics
( Vertigo
division)
universe ,
Cain and Abel
are a pair of fictional characters based on the Biblical Cain and Abel, in
Neil Gaiman 's
Sandman
series. In the series, Cain is constantly killing off his brother, despite the fact they are both
immortals .
Cain was traditionally considered to have red hair; the expression "Cain-coloured beard" is used in
Shakespeare 's
The Merry Wives of Windsor . [58]
In addition, Shakespeare also references Cain and Abel in Act III Scene iii of
Hamlet
when Claudius says, "It hath the primal eldest curse upon't/ A brother's murder!" (Lines 40-41).
Their names are often used in works of fiction simply as a reference, also. In
Waiting for Godot
by
Samuel Beckett , the character of
Estragon
tries to guess the names of two other characters. He guesses Abel and Cain. One of
Jason Bourne 's many names in
The Bourne Identity
and its sequels was Cain, an operative name in the Treadstone 71 program.
Posted by
Mark and Merejen
at
6:12 PM
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share to Pinterest
Reactions:
No comments:
Post a Comment
Please feel free to express any opinions about our businesses here or the way we deal with our neighbors. We will try our best to respond to all who make comments if you include an email address. We are trying our best to support our community in every way we can. Sometimes we face struggles, which interferes with our timetable, but we can only do so much. Please be patient with us, we are doing the best we can.
Newer Post
Older Post
Home
Subscribe to:
Post Comments (Atom)
There was an error in this gadget
About Me
Mark and Merejen
Lianga, Surigao del Sur, Philippines
Merejen is the Filipina wife of Mark who is an American. All content in this blog is available for posting anywhere, there will never be a charge for any of the articles contained herein. The writer will never ask for any financial support for this endeavor, if support is offered, it will be refused. This is the mission Yahushua/Jesus Christ has assigned to me, please do not belittle my wish to follow the leading of my Savior by offering money, gifts, or, recognition for what I do for our Messiah. We moderate all comments. We accept responsibility for everything we write. Here you will find only the truth as best we know it.
View my complete profile
Inspiration
Quote DB
Search this blog
Loading...
United States Coast Guard
Philippine American Family
PhilAm Pride
Recent Visitors
My Blog Links
A Lianga Diary
A Lianga Diary: Bantay Salakay
A Lianga Diary: Mark's Trevails
A Lianga Diary: Other Voices
A Look at American Democracy!
Barangay Saint Christine Development Plan
Bulatlat
Diatagon
Helium Asia - Where Coconuts Reign
Jef Menguin - Transform the Filipino Dream
Jesus Christ Crowned with thorns
The Lost Filipino
Archive
►
2013
(2)
►
July
(2)
►
2011
(4)
►
June
(1)
►
May
(3)
▼
2010
(51)
►
November
(5)
▼
October
(36)
Rapture and Heaven by Mark Borders
What Time is It Now?
It's the Corruption Stupid!
Get Thee Behind me satan!!!
Prepare for the End Times!
The Plan to Salvation
My Friends, Consider This
On the right side? Are you?
Listening for that Still Small Voice
My Dear Friends Back Home
End of Days???
Mistakes: Chastisement, Understanding, and Forgive...
Encouragement from Carlos
How to get started.
The Answer
Looking for Encouragement
Sins against me???
Mathew 6
To Cynthia a friend
Why the "Attacks"?
Stop the Presses!!!
Wheel of Life
Footprints
He Stands at the door and knocks. . .
It Might Be Time!
Hot or Cold?
Past Advice
Folks Please
I Had to Share This
Properly Managing The Philippines A Must - Comment...
Lockdown!
Sad
SOP
What Now?
The Battle is Over, And Jesus Is Lord.
I'm So Sorry
►
September
(7)
►
August
(2)
►
April
(1)
►
2009
(3)
►
June
(1)
►
February
(2)
►
2008
(8)
►
November
(2)
►
October
(1)
►
July
(3)
►
January
(2)
►
2007
(3)
►
December
(3)
Visiting Countries
Labels
Accident
(1)
Business
(11)
Corruption
(4)
Development Plan
(1)
Family
(2)
Family Only
(1)
Gas Station
(6)
Phoenix
(4)
Questions
(1)
Religion
(2)
Roads
(1)
Sawmill
(2)
Tourism
(1)
Quote of the Day
Quote DB />
Subscribe To
Posts
Atom
Posts
Comments
Atom
Comments
My Lord and Savior
Web of Trust
History
Blog Patrol
Bravenet Counter
Watermark template. Powered by
Blogger .