October | 2010 | Ty Templeton's ART LAND!! | Page 2
Ty Templeton's ART LAND!!
Skip to content
Home **Bun Toons** All About Ty About Ask a Question… Internet Entries Recent Work Request for Interviews Request for Work Videos Credits APPEARANCES 2015 CLASSES Cover Gallery Dexter by Ty HOLMES INC. STIG’S INFERNO Ty’s Lists!
Monthly Archives:
October 2010
←
Older posts
Newer posts
→
LAST WEEK on the ‘net
Posted on
October 17, 2010
|
Leave a comment
Monday October 11
Linkarama@Newsarama
from
Newsarama
Bigg Time
from
Underbrain
11.OCT 2010. Hey Kids, Comix ! from
Sequential/Canadian Comix News and Culture
Comic Book Resources Forums:  Sins Past Question
(comments) from
Comic Book Resources
Tuesday October 12
The 7 worst comic book resurrection stories
from
Blastr
Back Issues:  Stig’s Inferno
from
Lost Man
The 7 worst comic book resurrection stories
from
Comics Cavern
Borderland Speakeasy #16:  Sherlock Holmes and the Public Domain
from
PopMatters
Link Round Up:  October 8, 2010
from
Geek Art Gallery
Wednesday October 13
Civil Wars Specials–Choosing Sides
from
Comic Maniac
Single Issue Hall of Fame:  Secret Origins #50
from
Seduction of the Indifferent
Happy Belated Birthday to a Living Legend
from
Comics Cavern
Ty Templeton talks Under the Red Hood
from
fuckyeahjasontodd
In the News!
from
Eden Bachelder:  Sketches and Miscellany
The Comic Bloc Forums:  Legion of Super-Heroes /Legion Commissions and Con Sketches
from
Comic Bloc
Comic Book Resources Forums:  Sins Past Question
from
Comic Book Resources
Marvel Preview Review for December Pt 2 of 3
from
Comics And…Other Imaginary Tales
I’m Running My Inkpen
from
Michel Fiffe
Of Words and Pictures
(comment) from
Comic Book Resources
Sunday October 17
Poison Ivy – Botanist, eco-terrotist, cougar?
from
Live Journal:  We Like Dick
Share this: Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window) Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window) Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window) Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window) Like this: Like
Loading...
Leave a comment
Posted in
Last Week on the 'net
Saturday Morning Taxi Toons! Yay!
Posted on
October 16, 2010
|
1 comment
Bwah-hah-hah-hah-hah!!
The morning of Saturday is upon us, and time for another bun toon.  This one was inspired by a terribly bad cab ride, a conversation with my friend Sam Agro, and a bit of an old SNL sketch.  Put ’em together and you make toon soup.   I’m actually happy with how this one turned out, and hey, look!  I lettered it by hand, just because I can still do that!
Dedicated to the Sketch Treadwells of this world.  May you all be stiffed with a Kat Krispies coupon.
See you soon for another Hi-larious top ten list, and more bun toons next week.  Ain’t the internet fun?  Speaking of fun…
TY THE GUY OUT!
Here now, your comic book moment of zen.
–
Share this: Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window) Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window) Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window) Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window) Like this: Like
Loading...
1 Comment
Posted in
bun toons ,
Bunny Funnies ,
Templetoons
Tagged
blind cabbie ,
humor ,
humour ,
space cabbie ,
webcartoon ,
webcomic
World Wide Hoverboy Friday
Posted on
October 15, 2010
|
2 comments
Because the calendar never lies
We’ve been getting some emails from Hoverboy fans around the world, asking if we can identify various overseas versions of the character…why this toy was released, or who drew that issue, etc.    But every now and then, even we get stumped, so we’re turning to you guys for help.  Here are some examples of Hoverboy mania from around the world, we can’t really identify.  Any and all foreign fans who’ve know their stuff, fill US in as to the history of these things, and we’ll pass it along to the original posters.
Well, this first one, we DO know a little about.  It was produced by the American Hoverboy team at Vigilance Comics, to be sold exclusively in Mexico.  It sold quite poorly as every page was filled with racist Mexican stereotypes that the creators believed were complimentary, such as a talking chihuahua as mayor, and everyone eating tacos during conversation and action scenes.   The question we can’t answer, however, is how many issues were produced of this series, and are there any other cover scans available?  We’ve only seen the first two issues (and issue one cannot be reproduced on a family website, trust me).  Any other Mexican Hoverboy fans with scans of issue #3?
This was sent in by a Belgian fan who speaks only Dutch and wonders if we could translate the cover for him.  I’m afraid my French is so bad, it’s one of the reasons Quebec wants to separate from Canada, so I’m not the one to give it a try.  Anyone recognize this comic?  And who the hell are the ducks?  They look vaguely Nazi…?
This was sent in by someone who claims they found it on a cruise ship in the garbage, so it could have come from ANYWHERE on Earth.  My guess is that it’s from Australia, or New Zealand, since they seem to be worried about Japanese robots attacking, and they’re speaking English.  Perhaps it’s from Malaysia, or the Phillipines?  Any guesses?  The art is gorgeous, and the price tag suggests it’s fairly recent.
This was sent to us by a Hover-Fan who lives in Rome, Italy.  He claims it’s painted on the side of a building about a block from his house, a building that faces a rubble strewn courtyard, long abandoned.  Our fan wants to know if this was intended as an advertisement, and when is it from?  Damned if I know, is my answer.
This is likely from France, or Belgium.  The French writing gives it away.  Also, the photo was sent to us by snail mail from an American living in Paris, who says he stole this bottle from a quaint bed and breakfast in the Alsace region of Eastern France, and wonders what year it’s from, and whether there was a shampoo that went with it.   He says he ransacked the whole house and couldn’t find the shampoo, and it has driven him crazy ever since.
Well, I hope we can find some answers, I know there are at least four or five fans waiting breathlessly to know.  Any help would be helpful.  And we’ll believe anything you tell us, we’re gullible that way.
TY THE GUY OUT!
Here now, your Hoverboy Moment of Zen
Vigilance Novelties Hoverboy Button Artwork, circa 1966
Share this: Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window) Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window) Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window) Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window) Like this: Like
Loading...
2 Comments
Posted in
Hoverboy Fridays
Tagged
Hoverboy ,
parody ,
satire
This has NOTHING to do with comics.
Posted on
October 14, 2010
|
7 comments
I’ve been meaning to mention this for days now, as it’s just too stupid to keep to ourselves.  In Toronto, where I live and slave away at drawing the  Simpsons Comics this month,  (and finishing Johnny Canuck’s NORTHERN GUARD, and waiting for art in an upcoming issue of Mad Magazine, and, of course Marvel’s AGE OF HEROES is still on sale…plugging boy TY), the local laws have become amusing.
Now, we Canadians long got over the gay marriage and socialized medicine stuff….that’s everyday life  around here.  But lately in Toronto, the two big legal stories concern the recent court order making prostitution legal, and the recent by-law making it illegal to park more than one car in your driveway.
Freedom comes in many shapes and sizes.
Ty the Guy OUT!
This post wasn’t about comics, so you get no moment of zen.  Sorry, but  rules must be followed if order is to be maintained.
Share this: Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window) Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window) Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window) Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window) Like this: Like
Loading...
7 Comments
Posted in
Uncategorized
Tagged
driveway ,
law ,
prostitution ,
toronto
Happy Birthday Joe Simon!
Posted on
October 11, 2010
|
9 comments
MARVEL COMICS first ever editor-in-chief
is 97 years old today, and looking damn fine.
The man c0-created
Captain America ,
the Sandman ,
Newsboy Legion
and a host of other characters, and managed to do it in an era when a black soul singer could not have had an easy time of it in the New York publishing industry.
Oh wait, that might be the wrong Joe Simon.  Wait a second…
That’s better.  Joe Simon, co-creator of Captain America and a host of other titles.
He’s known primarily for his work with
Jack Kirby ,
Timely , and DC, in the Golden Age of comics, introducing the world to the
BOY’S RANCH,
THE BOY COMMANDOS ,
FIGHTING AMERICAN ,
THE FLY ,
SANDMAN AND SANDY , and romance and horror comics in general.  Simon, along with Kirby, were the original “IMAGE” comics, as they formed their own creator-based company, called
MAINLINE COMICS , in the fifties, long before disgruntled Marvel employees of the nineties were a gleam in their disgruntled parents’ eyes!
So much of this was before my time, I only know about it through reprints and history books. …HOWEVER, I am old enough to recall the Joe Simon comics of the late 60s and early 70s, and they were so F***ING WEIRD that they remain amongst my favorite comics of all time.
Who but Joe Simon would have given us
BROTHER POWER:  THE GEEK ?
No biting the heads off of chickens in here...it's actually far weirder.
Crazy bikers, hippies galore and midgets in turbans is the standard for this title, only two issues of which were ever published.  In the late sixties, if you wanted a writer to talk to the new generations of peace and love, turn to a man in his fifties and let ‘im loose.  This wasn’t Joe’s only foray into talking to the young…just a few years later, Joe Simon would create the BEST comic DC would ever publish about teenage politics.
See what happens when you let 18 year olds vote?
The loons in the car with Prez are his cabinet, I kid you not.  The Native American fellow was Secretary of State, and he never wore a shirt, even to peace talks with Israel.  Go daddy, go!   When I was 14, this comic spoke to me, but mostly it told me to go kill the neighbor’s dog.
Because money solves everything.
Another of the Joe Simon lunatic-masterpieces of the 70s.   It’s Richie Rich meets the Newsboy Legion, and it lasted three issues, only ONE of which was actually published.  My favorite part of this comic was the subtle racism that the white kids either inherited or earned their millions…but the black kid got his money through a glitch in the bank that accidentally credited a shoe-shine boy’s account with a million dollars, because, you know…well…he was black.
My all time favorite of the wacky 70s Joe Simon creations was his last pairing with his original partner Jack Kirby for another run at the character name
“SANDMAN” .
It was a precursor to the
Vertigo
series.  The main character lived in the “Dream Dome” and was able to enter the dreams of living people, and fight their nightmares.  And it was drawn by Kirby and inked by
WALLY WOOD !  Talk about a Dream Team!  Unfortunately for DC and the rest of us, Simon, Kirby and Wood weren’t available for an issue #2, and they handed it off to lesser teams until the book was canceled 5 issues later. (Kirby did a couple more art jobs, but without Simon and Wood…meh).
So HAPPY BIRTHDAY JOE SIMON!  Marvel Comics, and the industry in general, would be nothing like it is today without you.  Thanks for helping Kirby find his style, and this youthful comic fan his joy in Oddball Comics.  You continue to be the legend you are.  Many more to come.
TY THE GUY OUT!
Here now, your comic book moment of zen.
Share this: Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window) Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window) Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window) Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window) Like this: Like
Loading...
9 Comments
Posted in
Comic Book Creators ,
Comic Book Moment of Zen ,
Comics that Matter
Tagged
Brother Power ,
Green Team ,
Jack Kirby ,
Jerry Grandenetti ,
Joe Simon ,
Marvel Comics ,
Prez ,
Sandman ,
The Geek ,
Wally Wood
LAST WEEK on the ‘net
Posted on
October 10, 2010
|
Leave a comment
Monday October 4
Kibbles’n’Bits
from The Beat
Linkarama@Newsarama
from
Newsarama
Holmes Inc. Art Show Showcases New Canadian Talent
from
Comic Book Daily.com
Creative Writing 101
from
Iconoclastic
Tuesday October 5
Random Comics News Story Round-Up
from
The Comics Reporter
The 7 most successful comicbook superhero reboots
from
Blastr
Comic Book Fans–Steve Rude Needs Your Help
from
The Frontlines
Wednesday October 6
Hot Comics — The Fifty Dollar Club
from
luxxcorp
Wolverine and Doop
from
Comic Vine
A Sense of Wonder:  How DC Has Failed To Successfully Incorporate Shazam! Into The DC Universe
from
The Comics Cube
Spider-Man:  Back in Quack #1:  It Is What It Is, Bro
from
High Five! Comics
If you live in Toronto, Ontario
from
Cultural AD/HD
Who is Spider-Man’s One True Love?
comments
from
Comic Book Resources Forums
Thursday October 7
La Fugacidad De La Fama
from
Dedos Pegajosos
Comics and Arts Courses for Adults and Kids
from
community/livejournal/Toronto
Ty Templeton
from
The Island of Themyscira
Friday October 8
15 Artists in 15 Minutes, Part 2
from
The Comics Cube
Daily Reviews/Spider-Man:  Back in Quack
from
Comics Bulletin
Retro-Read #27  Spider-Man/Human Torch
from  Cyberspace
Comics
Batman by the Boy
from
Andertoons Cartoon Blog
Sunday October 10
Sunday Runaround–Stan Lee’s Sweet Sweet Music
from
Bleeding Cool
Go, Look:  Thank Canada
from
The Comics Reporter
Share this: Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window) Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window) Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window) Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window) Like this: Like
Loading...
Leave a comment
Posted in
Last Week on the 'net
HAZY MEMORIES BUN TOONS
Posted on
October 9, 2010
|
1 comment
You'll never stop me from cartooning.
Don't make me cut you.
-First off.  We must wish happy thoughts to Yoko, and the missing walrus.
Who knew John did a bunny self portrait?  It shows his range.
Anyway…It’s Thanksgiving weekend in Canada…time to visit the mom’s house and eat turkey while the kids put permanent marks in their grandmother’s furniture.  While I was over at the mom’s house a couple of weeks ago, I was handed a box of old drawings and cartoons from the start of my career…including some submissions to humour magazines drawng in my early twenties.  In honour of turkey and visiting home, I present a couple of them on my bunny blog.
All this goes to prove that young cartoonists should not PUN so much.  It’s a disease when you’re that age.  See you next week with an ALL NEW Bun Toon that has never been in my mother’s house.
TY THE GUY OUT!
Here now, your comic book moment of zen:
—————————————————————————————–
for last week's bun toon - DICK FIST: NARCOLEPTIC PRIVATE EYE - click here
Share this: Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window) Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window) Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window) Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window) Like this: Like
Loading...
1 Comment
Posted in
bun toons ,
Bunny Funnies ,
Templetoons
Tagged
Beatles ,
John Lennon ,
Thanksgiving ,
webcartoon
←
Older posts
Newer posts
→
Follow me on Twitter!
Subscribe:
Enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Join 330 other followers
Ty Templeton’s ART LAND!   RSS - Posts
Categories Categories
Select Category
00 Stig's Inferno
American Splendor
Appearances
April 1
art for sale
Art Spiegelman
Awards
Batman
Big Max
Bigg Time
Bootcamp Comics
Breaking into Comics
Bun Toon
bun toons
Bunny Funnies
Canadian Superheroes
charity
Christmas
Christmas Bunny
Comic Book Art
Comic Book Bootcamp
Comic Book Creators
Comic Book Moment of Zen
Comics
Comics in other forms
Comics that Matter
Commissions
Con Sketches
Contests
Convention Stories
Conventions
Corrections
countdown
Credits
Dark Claw Adventures
DC Comic’s Shoptalk
DC Comics
Dead Celebrity Jokes
Dexter: The Early Cuts
Easter
eBay listings for Ty Templeton
Elongated Man
Elseworlds Special
Eulogy
Fit to Print
Flashbacks
Follow-Up
Four Panels
Free Comic Book Day
GLXmas Special
Hallowe’en
Halloween
Halloween ComicFest
Harvey Pekar
Hero Initiative
Heroes of the North
Holmes Inc
Hoverboy Fridays
Interviews
Introduction
It Gets Better
JLA
Joe Shuster Awards
Justice League
Justice League Unlimited Covers
Koffler Centre of the Arts
Last Round-Up
Last Week in Art Land
Last Week on the ‘net
LGBTQ
Links
Mad Dog
Mad Magazine
Marvel Comics
Maus
Mike Parobeck
Moonstone Books
Mouse Rat
Movie Review
Mr. Comics
music
Nepotism Thursdays
NEW COMIC WEEKEND
New Comics Day
New Pages
New Work
Northern Guard
On Television
On the 'Net
On the Couch
Parks and Recreation
Planet of the Apes
Powdered Toast Man Special
Released this week
RePost
Reviews
Saturday Morning Cartoons
Scandals
Secret Origins
Spider-Man
Spider-Man/Human Torch
Star Trek
Stig's Inferno
Superfriends
Superman
Templetoons
The Comic Book Lounge & Gallery
The Crimson Arrow
The Joe Shuster Awards
The New Wave
The Simpsons
top five
Toronto Cartoonists Workshop
Toronto Cartoonists Workshops
Tributes
Trouble
True Life Tales
Tumblr
Twitter
Ty Templeton
Ty Templeton’s Comic Book Bootcamp
Ty Toons
Ty's Top
Ty’s Lists
Uncategorized
Unseen artwork
Videos
What the %@&*!
WildC.A.T.S. Adventures
Wonder Woman
Workshops
X-Men
Archives
Archives
Select Month
October 2015
September 2015
August 2015
July 2015
June 2015
May 2015
April 2015
March 2015
February 2015
January 2015
December 2014
November 2014
October 2014
September 2014
August 2014
July 2014
June 2014
May 2014
April 2014
March 2014
February 2014
January 2014
December 2013
November 2013
October 2013
September 2013
August 2013
July 2013
June 2013
May 2013
April 2013
March 2013
February 2013
January 2013
December 2012
November 2012
October 2012
September 2012
August 2012
July 2012
June 2012
May 2012
April 2012
March 2012
February 2012
January 2012
December 2011
November 2011
October 2011
September 2011
August 2011
July 2011
June 2011
May 2011
April 2011
March 2011
February 2011
January 2011
December 2010
November 2010
October 2010
September 2010
August 2010
July 2010
June 2010
May 2010
April 2010
March 2010
February 2010
January 2010
December 2009
November 2009
October 2009
September 2009
Blog at WordPress.com .
The Coraline Theme .
Ty Templeton's ART LAND!!
Create a free website or blog at WordPress.com .
The Coraline Theme .
Follow
Follow “Ty Templeton's ART LAND!!”
Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.
Join 330 other followers
Build a website with WordPress.com
Send to Email Address
Your Name
Your Email Address
Cancel
Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
%d
bloggers like this:
Add your thoughts here... (optional)
Post to
Cancel