Future comic book reads | DestroyTheCyborg!
Future comic book reads | DestroyTheCyborg!
Contact
Contribute
About
Select a Page Contact
Contribute
About
Follow us on the internet!
Ads by Project Wonderful!
Your ad here, right now: $0
Comic Books
Movies
Music
Video Games
Books
Specialty Articles
Analysis
Editorial
Regular Posts
B-Movie Breakdown
Comic Virgins
DTC Listens
Previously In…
The Weekly Pull List
Podcasts
The DTC Podcast!
I Read Comic Books
DestroyTheCyborg! Film Podcast
Select a Page Comic Books
Movies
Music
Video Games
Books
Specialty Articles
- Analysis
- Editorial
Regular Posts
- B-Movie Breakdown
- Comic Virgins
- DTC Listens
- Previously In…
- The Weekly Pull List
Podcasts
- The DTC Podcast!
- I Read Comic Books
- DestroyTheCyborg! Film Podcast
Future comic book reads
Published On
July 9, 2008 |
By
Mike Rapin
|
Random
I don’t know what it is, but whenever I see Nick blogging, I always feel the need to blog. Nick, do you feel the same way? haha
Anyways, my real post:
I haven’t read any comics in a few days (I finished my weeklies on Saturday) and it’s because 1) I’m lazy, 2) My girlfriend is around and 3) I’ve been way too tired to read (those are in no real order). But I want to let you guys know what I’m looking forward to read that I will (hopefully) be getting too in the near future and will, in turn, blog about. Most of this stuff is just what I’ve gotten a hold of and just want to read for fun and has no dealings with continuity or major plots or anything. Just fun stuff in vague/very interested sumary:
1.
Squadron Supreme/Supreme Power
v2
Seeing that I’m a die-hard
Marvel Ultimate-universe
fan, I need to read this series to get
Ultimate Power
and the new Squadron Supreme series that just came out. Now, the Squadron Supreme/Supreme Power series that I’m talking is
NOT
the series
that ran into the
Avengers
way back when, but instead is the series totally off on its own that Marvel decided to have intertwine with their Ultimate universe (which I haven’t read yet, so shh!). But I’m really excited for this series. I’m 7 issues in and I have almost everything–except
Dr. Spectrum –to read in trade paperback form. It’s obviously at the top of my list.
2.
Battle Pope
I love
Robert Kirkman . Seriously. His runs in
Ultimate X-Men
were effing incredible, but I was drawn to him by his
Walking Dead
series which just kicks so much ass. Holy shit is it good. On top of that, he is writing
Invincible . Holy mother of
Thor
is that series good. And with that, I have Battle Pope. An apocalypse driven series based around sex, violence and just plain kick-ass-ery. I started this series about a month ago on a whim and gave up as I started to catch up on my weekly comics. What I read was utterly incredible. It had me laughing out loud on the bus as I rode back from work one day and I can’t wait to start the series up again.
3.
Blade
Ever since I saw the
Blade movie
however long ago, I’ve wanted to read the Blade comics, especially the
most recent series . Since I began reading comics, I’ve known of Blade but I’ve never really investigated him enough to truly appreciate him as a character. I know he was working with the
Nightstalkers
and
Dr. Strange
back in the day, but I’ve never really read enough story to really get to know who Blade really is. Yea, that’s cheezy, but that’s how I ride. Nevertheless, I’m excited to read the 13-issue series
Marvel
just recently put out and I assume it’s going to be great.
4.
Y – The Last Man
I don’t know where or how I heard about this series back when I started collecting it, but I happen to have the whole series (#1-50) and guess what? I’m excited to read this series. The concept of this entire series that only 1 man and his monkey survived this disease that killed the rest of the male population in the world…
Now there’s a concept I can’t get enough of, a man and his monkey.
It’s a series basis that just makes me laugh and from what I’ve heard about it it just sounds too surreal to imagine without actually reading.
Even still, it’s supposed to be an amazing series. You have to love the innovation at
Vertigo .
5.
Watchmen
I know I’m late in the game here–try 20 years late–saying “Oh man! Watchmen!” but even with that, I know any hardcore comic book fan would say to read this series and that’s exactly what I plan on doing.
Alan Moore
is a god–this is obvious–and I plan on doing my worship by reading Watchmen and crying in happiness at how awesome this series is going to be. And that’s that.
6.
PS238
Again, another series I have no memory of coming across, but my guess is that I stumbled across the tri-weekly page publishing on
Aaron Williams ‘ web site via some other site and had to get the rest of the series. The focus of the series is on one little boy who has powers. I don’t know more than that, since I haven’t even read anything else on it or any of the series. So, it should be cool, as vague of a description as that is. I have the first 25 or so comics, and I’ll just go from there.
So, remember to click the links provided if you want more information on each of these series’ and hopefully you’ll start reading too.
aaron williams alan moore amazing avengers battle pope blade dr. spectrum dr. strange future reading invincible kick-ass kids monkey nightstalkers ps238 Random robert kirkman sex squadron supreme super powers supreme power thor ultimate power ultimate x-men Vertigo violence walking dead watchmen y - the last man
Related Post
The Weekly Pull List – October 21st, 2015
The Weekly Pull List – September 30th, 2015
I Read Comic Books | Episode 33 | Language and Comics
The Weekly Pull List – July 15th, 2015
About The Author
Mike Rapin
Mike is currently the Editor-in-Chief at
DestroyTheCyborg!
as well as a full time web developer for
Comixology
in New York. He's a die-hard
X-Men
fan whose love of Gambit will stand the test of time.
One Response to
Future comic book reads
Leave a Reply
Cancel reply
Recent Tweets
RT @xanderwithaz: ICYMI - This week @destroythecyb's
I Read Comic Books podcast tackled the issue of trimming your pull list. https://t.co…
3 days ago
RT @ValiantComics: ICYMI: Archer & Armstrong are BACK with a new upcoming ongoing series! https://t.co/7eX2lyHF8N
3 days ago
Hey! Did you know that our podcast I Read Comic Books has a subreddit? https://t.co/d1EbSFLNEE
3 days ago
Avatar Press
BOOM! Studios
Dark Horse
Dynamite
Icon
IDW
Image
Marvel
Top Cow
Vertigo
Login
Register
Log in
Entries
RSS
Comments
RSS
WordPress.org
© DestroyTheCyborg!