2011 | Mary K. Greer's Tarot Blog | Page 4
Mary K. Greer's Tarot Blog
"Tarot helps you meet whatever comes in the best possible way."
Home
BIO
EVENTS
PUBLICATIONS
EMAIL
GD Glossary
Subscribe to feed
Yearly Archive
You are currently browsing the yearly archive for 2011.
Mary Greer interviewed by Rachel Pollack
June 24, 2011 in
Interviews & Conversations ,
Tarot News & Events
|
4 comments
This is an interview with me by Rachel Pollack, as part of our series on the presenters at the
Omega Institute Tarot Conference
happening
July 29-31st. You can read plenty about me right here on my blog, so let’s get on with it.
Rachel: Your work has featured endless ways people can develop their own style and ways of reading.  And yet, you are also steeped in Tarot knowledge and tradition.  How do you integrate these two sides in your teaching?
Mary : I am a life-long learner; I feel history can enhance anyone’s life, and that natural skills can be refined and augmented by study. I don’t fully integrate history and technique in my teaching, although I try to do so in my practice. Carl Jung advised that one should learn everything possible about symbols and then, when working with a dream, to forget it all. It’s a paradox involving an intelligent ‘forgetting’ that allows one to be fully present in the moment with a person’s own material. In actuality, all the learning forms a backdrop, which helps me recognize patterns that may elucidate the whole situation.
When it comes to reading tarot, you don’t need to know tarot history, just basic card interpretations and a few spreads. Some people are intuitive readers and don’t need book meanings to help people via the cards. I really try to honor this potential, so most of my class exercises are designed to develop a person’s natural abilities and insights—to help students discover how much they already know and what their own reading style is. But that’s really only a starting point.
Skill development and history are very useful when faced with crises, blocks and difficult situations. I believe it was George Santayana who said that those who do not know their history are bound to repeat it. We get stuck in old patterns of thinking and behaving, but models and techniques are available that can help us break out of these. Tarot is a kind of story-telling, and history consists of stories from the past. But, a study of history also teaches us how to evaluate these, for all stories are not equally relevant or helpful. In my longer, on-going classes I bring in quite a bit of history. I’m trying to find ways to make history more relevant to a workshop environment, because dry facts can be deadly when students are wanting and needing to experience tarot directly. It’s one of my current challenges.
Rachel: In recent years you have devoted yourself to the history of Tarot and fortune telling.  How does new knowledge of the past affect what we do with Tarot today?
Mary : History is accumulated, collective knowledge. It helps us meet challenges and opportunities that we may not have yet encountered on our own. Here’s a couple of examples.
The history of oracles and cartomancers gives me a sense of belonging to one of humanity’s oldest professions, present in every time and every culture. As an older woman I can see that this is a skill, that while practiced by men and women of all ages, has been a speciality of elder females, for which they have been revered, ignored, sought out, villanized and even killed. Caitlin Matthews expressed it eloquently at the last Readers Studio when she said, “We live on the edge for a reason, so that when people are on edge, they run towards us!” History makes us aware of just what that edge looks like, how others have met the challenges, and conditions under which an ‘edge’ existence becomes honored or dangerous. Knowing this, and seeing how other professions have improved their status, suggests possibilities for elevating this profession for myself and for those who come after.
A second example involves the Rider-Waite-Smith deck, where I have discovered that the Minor Arcana suits illustrate stories chosen by A.E. Waite. For example, Cups tells the story of one of the first Grail myths, and Swords is the foundation myth of the Freemasons. They lend a certain archetypal, psychic power to this deck that has been intuited by many who have copied the artwork, but not previously understood. More importantly, perhaps, is that when we recognize that we are living out elements of a great myth through getting cards in these suits, it gives a greater meaning to the experience and helps us to recognize possible outcomes and make clearer choices.
Rachel: You’ve worked with astrology and Tarot “birth constellations.”  Considering our theme of “Fate and Free Will,” do such structures suggest a more fixed fate than readings where we just shuffle the cards and see what happens?
Mary : There’s an old astrological axiom: “The stars impel, they do not compel.” Impel suggests an urging while compel is about being forced. I sometimes feel that life is like floating down a great river carried by a particular current made up of current events and our own character (or karma). I can go with the flow, enhance it, or fight it. I don’t think that Lifetime Cards tell us who we will become, or that Year Cards tell us what events will happen that year. I find that they have more to do with sensing the existing flow and then discerning the meaning those events can have for us. They reflect qualities that bring a sense of fulfillment—no matter what happens. Were we fated to be born on a certain day? I really don’t know, but I like to think that my Higher Self chose circumstances that would best facilitate my soul’s journey. When I live life as if that were true, then everything seems more vital, exciting and purposeful then when I don’t. Meaningful synchronicities abound, leading to ‘probability enhancement’—one of my favorite definitions of magic. In readings, I like mixing free will with considerations of chance, fate and destiny, which I hope we will do in my conference session.
See interviews with other presenters:
Rachel Pollack
Ellen Lorenzi-Prince
James Wells
Marcus Katz
Marcus Katz interviewed by Mary K. Greer
June 23, 2011 in
Interviews & Conversations ,
Tarot News & Events
|
3 comments
Marcus Katz
is one of the fabulous presenters at this year’s
Omega Institute Tarot Conference , July 29-31st. He lives in England’s beautiful Lake District, made famous by so many romantic poets like Wordsworth and Coleridge. Truly it is a place to inspire the soul. In addition to founding
Tarot Professionals
and
Tarot Town , Marcus is the author of two books,
Tarosophy
and
Tarot Flip ,
and a doctoral candidate in Western esotericism at the University of Exeter, where he earned his master’s degree. (Picture: Marcus at Rosslyn Chapel. )
Mary: How did you get into tarot and what motivated you to found the largest tarot organization in the world?
Marcus:
When I was very young I asked what seemed to be unusual questions. When I turned 12, I was sure I had missed some important lesson at school, or teaching from my parents, that everyone else other than me seemed to have received. Everyone seemed to know what they were doing and what the world was about. Otherwise how did they know what to do, what was important, and why they should do anything? So when Tarot was taught in one of our rather spectacularly alternative lessons at the experimental school I was lucky enough to have joined at that age, I saw what Tali Goodwin, my co-author, calls a “Blank Bible”. A pictorial system in which I could make sense of the world, uniquely to my own experience. So within a weekend I had created my own deck (22 Majors only, pasted onto cardboard) and learnt enough to do readings for my friends at school. Since that time I estimate I’ve done easily over 10,000 face-to-face readings over 30 years – and am still learning.
I founded
Tarot Professionals
to bring full-time professionalism and consideration to the craft of Tarot study, reading and teaching. We aim to marry commercial common-sense with spiritual sensibility and now after two years are able to support other Tarot projects, such as Moti Zemelman’s Dancers Tarot and Chris Deleo’s tarot documentary, featuring Enrique Enriquez, as well as consulting on the
ShindigTarot.com
online video reading system. Our main ambition is to restore the spiritual dignity of Tarot. Our work to support World Tarot Day brought some 2,600+ people to the site on the day itself this year, up from 600 last year. As such we were also able to donate to two important charities, and create a positive vibe for Tarot to a wider audience. The Facebook group has gone up 840% because we invest our money back into advertising such events. For those who want to encounter Tarot in a supportive environment, we offer
Tarot Town , currently approaching 6,000 members. All of these offer my own research and unique, often unpublished materials, including a rarely seen Crowley sketch from his original notebooks as one little part of the full 78-lesson course!
Mary: Your main focus seems to be on tarot education and professional support and development. What do you think a tarot reader most needs to learn in order to get the most from the cards for themselves?
(Picture: me, Marcus and the Fool’s dog.)
Marcus : My main focus is indeed on education. Our
Hekademia Tarot
program is two-years long and now has two cohorts, totaling 50 students, on what aims to be the most comprehensive Tarot course in the world. The work that the students is producing is already astonishing us! We have a showcase of the first term’s work on the main site, where students produced “Wonder Cabinets” of Tarot, entire photographic decks and essays on the oracular tradition, all within the first two months of the course! We originally planned to have one cohort of 20 students per year, we are currently looking to fill a third enrolment in September of three such enrolments this first year!
To me, a Tarot reader needs to see the cards as a language. A language which can then express insight to them which could not otherwise be communicated. I see many students on my beginner courses who have “been reading 20 years” and yet don’t seem to have progressed beyond quite linear and mechanic readings, or “intuition”. I hope they leave my beginners course with a new excitement as to *why* they have been learning that language for so long without visiting the country in which that language is spoken, and what it can express and to what it can lead. It is not the learning of French that is useful, it is when you use the language to order a delicious meal in Paris, or get directions to a one-off music event in Geneva – that is what is useful about the language. I believe Tarot is a tool to engage life, not escape it. So every time your Tarot reading takes you to a new encounter, a meeting with a new person, an event you might not otherwise have attended, a place you might not otherwise have gone, this is Tarot teaching.
Mary: You are a trainer in Neurolinguistic Programming (NLP) and other communication and business techniques, what does tarot offer individuals that none of these others does as well?
Marcus : I
work with clients using NLP
on a weekly basis, ranging from such issues as insomnia, addictions, weight-issues, compulsive disorders, phobias, etc. I also coach clients in performance skills such as presentations, interviews, exams, etc. This is a wide spectrum of work and what strikes me is that many of my clients lose sight of their own unfolding story when afflicted with such issues. Whilst my work with them may help us undo their curse or weave a better spell, it does not fully open out into the
mundus imaginalis , the world of wonder beyond that which is presented to us. The tarot enables this world to be accessed in so many different ways.
So I see the Tarot as a reflective tool, one arising and stabilizing in the same perceptual world we find ourselves in—and we find ourselves in Tarot as the blank bible which in turn is the truth of our encounter with what arises. Tarot is the picture of the Soul’s dance inside itself, the divine dance of the Fool. It transcends all material and transient nature in which business, communication and counseling all take place, each to their own world – important in their place, however only part of the full deck of possibilities.
If you look deeply into the Eye painted on the Tower card of the Thoth deck, and turn it on its side, you will see the 0 or black nothingness of the Fool in the centre. The outside of the eye now resembles the
vesica piscis
of the Universe/World card. And between them, vibrating in perfect harmony between the Nothing and the All, are 22 radiating lines of gold … our Tarot.
See interviews with other presenters:
Rachel Pollack
Ellen Lorenzi-Prince
James Wells
Mary K. Greer
Summer Solstice Intention
June 20, 2011 in
Uncategorized
|
4 comments
“With the Great Solstice Turning of the Seasons, we honor the spirit of the Tarot and all those, past, present and future, who unselfishly support its gifts of illumination, healing, and inspiration for all.”
Wherever you are, at High Noon (or whenever is convenient) tomorrow—June 21st—we ask you to take a moment to send these thoughts out into the world. See the Tarot and all who love it and all who love them, bathed in the light of the Sun. If you can’t do it on the 21st, then join us on the 22nd.
In Love and Luck and Light, may the Sun’s illumination awaken all to your best expression of Self,
Mary
Lecture on the Tarot by Frieda, Lady Harris
June 16, 2011 in
Thoth Tarot Deck
|
2 comments
For everyone interested in the Crowley/Harris Thoth deck, there is an important article at
Tero Hynynen’s blog Tarotpuu . He reproduces a 1942 lecture by Lady Harris at the Sesame Club in which she speaks in some detail about the artistic choices made in certain cards. The Sesame was one of the few fashionable clubs open to both men and women and had welcomed American poet Edith Sitwell only a few years earlier. According to Harris, Death “has to suggest the idea of reincarnation, as opposed to putrefaction, he is weaving with his scythe a geometrical web of new forms.” She explains that while Water and Cups “typifies compassionate, receptive soothing ideas, its plenty is an over-copious endowment which destroys effort and it leads to a luxuriousness in which creative self-consciousness is lost.” Finally, the Fool is supposed to be the Pierrot of the Commedia dell-Arte.
I mention these only to whet your appetite, for Tero’s post contains much much more, as well as a larger version of this rare portrait of Lady Harris. You can also find a short account of her 1945 lecture at the Tomorrow Club
here .
Tarot Flow
June 14, 2011 in
Tarot Card Meanings ,
Tarot Tips & Techniques
|
17 comments
One of the geniuses of the Rider-Waite-Smith deck is the story-telling qualities of the Minor Arcana. Each card can tell a story, but a sometimes overlooked factor is that the suits tell stories as you move from card to card. In classes I encourage students to write a tale based on each suit so that they can get a personalized feel for how one image changes into the next. Pamela Colman Smith was a trained book illustrator and story-teller, so she may have told her own stories, although I believe Waite gave her specific tales to illustrate (see
here
and
here ).
Whatever the original stories, this
“tarot flow”
perspective can be used in your own readings. Rather than looking at the Minor Arcana cards as static scenes, try seeing them as a moment that is only one step in a progression. Something happened just before this moment and it’s about to change into something else. It’s like individual tai chi gestures that should really only be part of a living, flowing, connected movement.
Many modern spreads, rather than focusing on a sequential development, favor single cards interpreted according to an individualized position: What helps you? What blocks you? How does your partner feel about you? I can guarantee that your partner doesn’t have only one feeling regarding you! If you see the cards in terms of a sequence, then you get more of the sense that on the way from one feeling to the next one, your partner, in regards to your question, is only temporarily dominated by the feeling shown by the card.
Let’s say you got the 5 of Pentacles. Your partner may be feeling emotionally cold and thinking that sticking with you, right now, is a hardship to be endured. That can be pretty depressing. But if you consider both the 4 and 6 of Pentacles, then you could consider whether your partner might have made a firm commitment to holding on to the relationship (4 of Pentacles) and is aware of a possible pay-off later (6 of Pentacles). It’s just that right now he or she is feeling hurt or going through a cold spell that might be only temporary. Do you see other possibilities for this sequence?
This kind of approach works very well with one of the
reversed card techniques . This optional way to read a reversal says that an upside down card is an energy that is attempting to manifest, but there is still something to deal with in regards to the preceding card. That is, you need to
revisit
the prior card in the suit before you can fully take on or manifest the present one. In this example, if the 5 of Pentacles was reversed, then you might want to consider what needs to be held on to in times of scarcity, by reminding yourself what you both found so valuable (4 of Pentacles). Consider what your partner has always clung to. Is there some way you can be supportive of or honor that in order to be a true companion in difficult times?
In
The Complete Book of Tarot Reversals , I opened most Minor Arcana card interpretations with a possible scenario of how the figures depicted on one card might have arrived there from the preceding one, seeking to link all the cards in a chain of actions and consequences. It’s worth taking a second to consider this perspective when doing a reading.
If you would like,
in the Comments, also
tell us your “tarot flow” story for the cards pictured below. How does the 8 of Cups card follow from the 7 and lead to the 9 of Cups? If the 8 of Cups is reversed, then how might you be better able to handle it by first revisiting the 7 of Cups?
These cards are from what’s been called the “Edith Waite” deck, that illustrates and accompanies
El Tarot Universal de Waite .
Rachel Pollack Interviewed by Mary K. Greer
June 13, 2011 in
Interviews & Conversations
|
4 comments
Rachel Pollack
is one of the organizers and featured presenters at the
Omega Institute Tarot Conference
on July 29-31st. Rachel is best known in the Tarot world for her landmark book,
Seventy-Eight Degrees of Wisdom , which has been followed up by more than a dozen tarot works including a tarot deck and the recent book,
Tarot Wisdom . She is also a well regarded fiction writer, having received many honors and awards, among them the famed Arthur C. Clarke Award for Science Fiction and the World Fantasy Award. Currently, she teaches in the MFA Creative Writing Program at
Goddard College . Among comic book aficionados she is best known for her run of issues 64-87 on the comic book
Doom Patrol , on
DC Comics ‘
Vertigo
imprint. Rachel is a member of the American Tarot Association, the International Tarot Society, and the Tarot Guild of Australia and presents Tarot workshops around the world.
Following the Conference, Rachel and I will be teaching a Five-Day Workshop on
The Art of Becoming a Great Tarot Reader , July 31 to August 5th. Watch a video of Rachel discussing teaching tarot at Omega
here .
The picture on the right shows Rachel wearing a mask created by Marlene Boaz (go, girl!). It’s The Speaker of Birds from Rachel’s
Shining Tribe Tarot .
Mary: As a novelist, comic book and short story writer, and poet you are very involved with story. How does story relate to the tarot and how do you think tarot readers can benefit from knowing something about story?
Rachel : There is a famous Chasidic proverb that says “God created humans because God loves stories.”  Story allows us to enter the cards and become part of them in a way unlike anything else, not study, not meditation.  Story seems to me the basis of readings, with the querent the hero, the question the springboard of the plot, and the cards in their places the action.  It can often help Tarot readers to ask the querent story questions, such as the attitude of the figure in the picture, where he or she might be going, why a figure is weeping, and so on.  And we begin to go deeply into the cards, in a very personal way, when we see great stories of mythology or literature in the Tarot.  I’m sure the original designers never thought of Rapunzel when they created the Tower and other cards, and yet it works perfectly, and gives the cards more meaning.
Mary: You’ve been doing tarot for over 40 years. What keeps it alive and fresh for you after all this time?
Rachel : I have never walled Tarot off into its own corner.  To me, Tarot is the world, so as I learn more about anything I think of how it can apply to Tarot.  For instance, just yesterday I read an intriguing idea about the story in Genesis that God took a rib from Adam and made Eve.  At first glance, this seems very sexist, and has been used  to describe women as inferior.  But the writer I was reading looked at the fact that chimpanzees have 13 ribs and humans have 12.  Thus the creation of woman was the evolutionary change from ape to human.  Women can be said to introduce human consciousness.  How does this affect Tarot?  Well, for one thing we find Adam and Eve in the Rider version of the Lovers, so now we can consider new and interesting points about that card.  But it also opens up the relationship between the male and female cards, such as the Magician and the High Priestess, or the Empress and the Emperor.  The Tarot and has led me to spiritual wisdom, inspired stories and poems, and brought truly wonderful people into my life.  I’m currently writing my 33rd book (not all about Tarot, but probably half of them), inspired in part by the classic works of Eden Gray, who introduced so many of us to Tarot in the late 60s and early 70s.  In the introduction I say this about Tarot: “The only thing I can tell you for sure is that you will never come to the end of it.”
Mary: You created the
Shining Tribe Tarot
deck. Do you feel fated to have done so? What were the biggest lessons you learned, and is there something a tarot reader can gain by creating a deck that they won’t get any other way?
Rachel : All my work with Tarot seems fated in a way.  In that same introduction I write that people ask me how I discovered Tarot, but it feels more like Tarot discovered me.  I began to create my own deck while writing
The New Tarot , which looked at some seventy-five decks created in the 70s and 80s.  It felt like the right thing to do.  I was also reading about early human spirituality, and traveling to prehistoric caves and stone circles, and ancient temples for my book “The Body of the Goddess,” on the origins of religion in nature and the human body.  So creating a deck grounded in nature and tribal and prehistoric art happened naturally.  Fate, you could say.  Getting permission to go into Lascaux cave was one of the great experiences of my life, and deeply affected my relationship to images in general and the Tarot in particular.
When you create your own deck you bond with the cards in a very deep way.  They become an extension of you, and you of them, a living relationship.  At the same time, my whole way of teaching and experiencing Tarot runs against any idea that I own the meanings of the cards.  I love it when people show me new meanings.  I did a Shining Tribe workshop this past year, and a woman came who loved the cards, never used any others, but had never had my book about them.  She made up all her own meanings, and they were completely different than mine. I think she was nervous I would be angry, but I loved it.  I could see the truth of everything she said.  Maybe everyone should find a deck they know nothing about but like, work with the cards, do readings, draw or tell stories with them until we really know them, and then publish a book about them, all without ever reading the creator’s interpretations.
See interviews with other presenters:
Ellen Lorenzi-Prince
James Wells
Marcus Katz
Mary Greer
Singing High Priestess
June 4, 2011 in
Uncategorized
|
11 comments
I bet you never knew that the High Priestess could sing. Watch her musical debut
HERE . Click on the play button. The song is
“Life is Like a Boat” by the amazing Rei fu, a Japanese singer/songwriter/artist (thank you, Bill D.).
I couldn’t resist doing the Empress, too:
HERE . Her song is
“One I Love”
by Meav who appears on the Celtic Women album.
And some great advice from the Devil:
HERE . The first line of this piece is attributed to Heather Pryor. I can’t find the original recording.
These talking pictures are made from the sample clips and web app available at
PQ Talking Photo . I’ll be posting more of them.
Ellen Lorenzi-Prince interviewed by Rachel Pollack
June 2, 2011 in
Interviews & Conversations ,
Tarot News & Events
|
8 comments
Ellen Lorenzi-Prince
is one of the featured presenters at this year’s
Omega Institute Tarot Conference , July 29-31st. She is creator of
Tarot of the Crone
and
Tarot Paper Dolls , both available at
The Tarot Connection , and she has a forthcoming tarot deck inspired by the ancient Minoan culture (see sample below). As well as being an innovative artist and writer, Ellen is one of our most outstanding tarot presenters, leading participants gently on their own personal journey, helping them find the story in the cards.
Visit Ellen at
Crone Ways .
Here she is interviewed by Rachel Pollack.
Star from Tarot of the Crone
Rachel: Where some people write books you create Tarot decks.
The Tarot of the Crone ,
The Minoan Tarot , decks of just the 22 Trump cards–do each of these express a different side of Tarot?  Do they expand Tarot’s possibilities?
Ellen : Do my decks express different sides of Tarot and expand its possibilities? Yes. But no. Yes, because they do provide other windows and passageways. But not really, because Tarot is more of a power than an
artifact, more than something with a predetermined amount of sides. It’s a power that is generative and fundamental for the artist, reader and mystic in me. Tarot is a power that is alive, and it’s a realm that deepens the more I explore it. New card images are like keys in a hall of doors. The good ones take you places.
Rachel: In your Tarot of the Crone study group you have avoided the traditional way of teaching meanings and instead developed a great wealth of readings and exercises.  Do you think we understand the cards and what they can mean for us primarily by working with them?
Ellen : Study is important. So is experience and exploration. We grow in understanding through both hands. I like to provide new experiences in Tarot because that keeps it challenging and fun for me. But the nature of the study group also reflects the philosophy of the Tarot of the Crone: immediate, personal, and transformational. I don’t take a formal approach because the deck is about the individual journey.
Rachel: You have traveled to sacred places, especially in Greece, and gone deeply into myths as living stories.  Do the mythic figures come alive in the cards?  What guidance do we get from them?
Ellen : Sometimes mythic beings literally come alive in the cards. I may get a reading that knocks my socks off, where I feel a deep and powerful voice speaking to me. Sometimes because of how the image strikes me, the context of the question or other cues, I recognize certain qualities in the voices. Qualities similar to those that speak in the sacred sites. Characteristics that allow me to give a voice a name, and through a name, a form and a story.
You can get good advice from these figures precisely because you do know their story (although never believe you know the whole of it). You know where they might be biased. You know what choices they made, what they believed and what they valued. Through understanding their story and recognizing where it touches your own, you learn how they would handle your situation, information which can help you create or avert the outcome suggested by the card.
Chariot from The Minoan Tarot
See interviews with other presenters:
Rachel Pollack
James Wells
Marcus Katz
Mary Greer
World Tarot Day – Wednesday, May 25th
May 24, 2011 in
Uncategorized
|
6 comments
On Wednesday, May 25th (tomorrow for most of you) head over to the
World Tarot Day official site
to experience fun, games, free class, new ideas, free readings and much much more. I’ll show up at Shindig Tarot to do a few short, free readings:
http://shindigtarot.com/directory/mary_k_greer
Here’s only a few of the activities:
1.
Tarot VideoWall : Submit a short 1-3 minute video clip on the theme “Tarot is …” and send it to:
worldtarotday@tarotprofessionals.com
(use
sendthisfile.com
or similar free service for large files) and have it included in our Tarot VideoWall project for 2011.
2. Take part in the
Worlds Largest Tarot Reading
and claim your free place on the Tarot Wall of Fame!
You can also join the experience of World Tarot Day™ (May 25th) by selecting a card
on the day itself , to answer the question, “ What is the spirit of Tarot for the next year? ” from your favourite deck, and sending its name to
worldtarotday@tarotprofessionals.com
and it will be entered into the WORLDS LARGEST EVER TAROT READING!
If you’d like to take a crazy photograph of you drawing the card in some weird place – local or bizarre, domestic or esoteric – and send that as well, the strangest photograph will get a prize! Every entry and your website will also be featured on our
TAROT WALL OF HONOUR
for the whole year, gaining you promotion to the wider community!
You’ll also receive a unique
collectable certificate
showing “I Spoke the Spirit of Tarot on World Tarot Day” just for entering your single card – with or without a photograph!
See the
photograph gallery
from the World’s Largest Tarot Reading 2010, featuring over 40+ Tarot readers worldwide.
Download
and interpret the 1-card, 3-card, 10-card and 100+card World’s largest Tarot reading and discuss what it means for the Spirit of Tarot on our
Facebook group
all year round!
3.
Team Dog or Team Cat?
Take part in this surprise team competition and make new tarot friends from across the globe! Watch this space over the week for more announcements. Will you guide the Fool’s Dog or take sides with the Queen’s Cat …? Who will take the Tarot throne this year? YOU Decide!
4. THE FOOLS FAIR WILL BE HERE ONLY ON THE DAY
With special offers, prizes, education and promotion available for only a few moments at a time during the day, all day, the Fool’s Fair is a festival flurry of awesome Tarot bargains, fun, provocation and challenge. When you enter the Fool’s Fair, you will leave with more than you bargained for!
2011 Omega Tarot Conference-interviewing James Wells
May 16, 2011 in
Interviews & Conversations ,
Tarot News & Events
|
2 comments
The 2011 Omega Tarot Conference: “Fate and Free Will”
is coming up soon on July 29-31. This year Rachel Pollack and I are including three speakers who are among the top workshop presenters at tarot conferences. They really understand the needs of tarot students and practitioners and create fun and innovative ways of experiencing the cards more deeply and effectively no matter your level of knowledge. With this lineup, we know this will be an outstanding weekend for tarot learning.
James Wells lives in Toronto, Canada and is a professional tarot reader, teacher and workshop organizer. His book,
Tarot for Manifestation , will be available in time for Omega, while his deck,
The Circle Ways Tarot Deck , will be out later. James’ readings focus on self-empowerment and conscious decision-making. He uses circle methodology, reiki, journaling and many other modalities to help clients and students remember their creativity, resourcefulness and wholeness. We are really honored to have him on the faculty this year.
• How did you get into tarot and how did you make the shift from your former profession into being a full-time tarot teacher and reader?
Since childhood, I’ve been interested in what makes people and the universe tick.  When I was 12 years old, I was reading a book called
Let ESP Work for You
by Patsy Ruth Welding.  There was a short section of seven or eight pages that talked about tarot cards.  Welding’s description of the cards was simultaneously luscious and grounded.  I saved up the money I earned from lawn cutting and newspaper delivering and went to a games store to buy my first tarot deck, a 1JJ Swiss pack.  Any time I could, I practised with friends, cousins, and myself.  When I was in high school, some of my teachers would ask me to pop into their offices after classes to give them short readings.  In my late teens, I discovered Gail Fairfield’s book,
Choice Centered Tarot .  At last, an understandable system!  A couple of years later, I went into a career in music (classically trained), directing choirs, playing organ and piano, composing, and so forth.  This career sustained me creatively and spiritually for a while, but I became disenchanted with the interactions I encountered in that world.  I realised that when I was offering tarot sessions for people, I felt really alive.  People began to give me fare from their gardens, books and other gifts in exchange for tarot consultations, so I checked with a healing teacher with whom I was then working and with an astrologer friend of mine about going into tarot in a professional manner.  Their feedback plus my own sense of inner rightness took me to a printing shop to get 1000 business cards made.  They simply said, “James Wells, Tarot Consultant” and displayed my phone number.  These got around and more people started to call.  People told me that the sessions they experienced with me helped them see things in a good way, so I began to wonder what I did that made our times with the cards so beneficial.  That’s when I started to teach workshops and classes.  The process of creating a format and handouts clarified, and still clarifies, what is valuable to me as a practitioner of tarot.  The private consultations and the teaching enhance one another.
• You are considered to be one of the best tarot workshop presenters. Why do you think this is and what do you most want participants to get from one of your workshops?
I get a thrill from the “aha!” moment, so in many workshops I set up the possibility for someone in the group to have a revelatory experience.  Recently, I offered a creative exploration of people’s birth, year, and month cards (derived from their date of birth).  A psychotherapist who was in attendance suddenly blurted out, “Holy s**t!” as she had a realisation about a pattern in her life.  My heart leapt for joy.  People who attend my gatherings also comment that they feel heard, accepted, and wiser than they first believed themselves to be.  My experience with, and training in, circle process fosters these.  Circle process is a simple and adaptable communication methodology rooted in basic human practices such as attentive listening, intentional speaking, and reliance on something greater than ourselves.  In my tarot workshops, my job is to weave a container wherein people not only get information from me, but also bring their personal journey to the cards and learn from hearing their fellow participants speak about how the tarot and their lives converge.  I suppose all of that comes down to offering hands-on learning experiences rather than just talking at people.
• There are many purposes for tarot readings. What, for you, is its most profound purpose?
Two words come to mind: liberation and wholeness.  The tarot, at its best, is a marvellous lens through which we can see what IS.  When we become aware of what is, we can see our options more clearly.  Knowing that we can choose any of these is liberating.  We’re no longer victims to our thoughts about whatever our experiences, past or present, have been.  An accumulation of these liberation moments can help us to remember that at our core we are whole.  What a profound gift to those who use the tarot consciously!
See interviews with other presenters:
Rachel Pollack
Ellen Lorenzi-Prince
Marcus Katz
Mary Greer
About
Click
HERE
to subscribe to Mary K. Greer's Tarot Blog by Email
≈◊≈◊≈◊≈◊≈
Mary K. Greer has made tarot her life work. Check here for reports of goings-on in the world of tarot and cartomancy, articles on the history and practice of tarot, and materials on other cartomancy decks. Sorry, I no longer write reviews.
Contact me
HERE.
© 2007-2013, Mary K. Greer
All material on this site is copyrighted. If you use anything, be sure to include my name and a link back to this site. Thank you.
Donate any amount to keep this ad-free blog growing.
Top Posts What Every Newbie Tarot Reader Should Know
What every newbie tarot reader should know about the history and myths of tarot
Three-Card Spreads: The Essentials
Carl Jung and Tarot
Mlle. Lenormand, the most famous card reader of all time
TV & Movie Tarot Watch List
Yes-No Advice Oracle
Origins of Cartomancy (Playing Card Divination)
Reading the Marseilles Tarot
Reading the Story in a Picture - Doré's Saltimbanques
ALL POSTS
Book/Story/Poetry Reports
(53)
Classes & Webinars
(2)
For Beginners
(7)
Golden Dawn Tarot
(8)
Interviews & Conversations
(19)
Knitted Tarot Bags
(5)
Lenormand
(15)
Major Arcana
(16)
Minor Arcana
(4)
Pamela Colman Smith
(19)
Playing Card Divination
(21)
Professional Tarot
(13)
RWS Tarot
(29)
Secrets of the Occult Tarot
(3)
Story in a Picture
(13)
Tarot & Psychology
(15)
Tarot Card Meanings
(10)
Tarot de Marseille
(1)
Tarot Deck Reports
(24)
Tarot Games
(7)
Tarot History & Research
(67)
Tarot Music Videos
(12)
Tarot News & Events
(46)
Tarot Readings
(12)
Tarot Spreads
(18)
Tarot Tips & Techniques
(30)
Thoth Tarot Deck
(7)
Uncategorized
(18)
Video & Audio Tarot
(63)
World Events
(7)
zContests
(2)
zPictures of Cartomancers
(13)
zPolls
(2)
zQuotables
(7)
Recent Comments
mkg
on
What Every Newbie Tarot Reader Should Know
Rechel Renkel on
What Every Newbie Tarot Reader Should Know
Juliana on
Yes-No Advice Oracle
Marilyn
on
19th Century American Lenormand Decks
Marilyn
on
Storyteller—Pamela Colman Smith
Marilyn
on
Lunatic, Street Person or Vagabond Hippie?
Archives
Archives
Select Month
September 2015  (2)
May 2015  (1)
April 2015  (3)
March 2015  (4)
February 2015  (7)
January 2015  (4)
December 2014  (2)
November 2014  (1)
December 2013  (1)
October 2013  (1)
September 2013  (2)
July 2013  (4)
January 2013  (3)
October 2012  (2)
September 2012  (4)
July 2012  (1)
June 2012  (1)
November 2011  (5)
October 2011  (1)
September 2011  (6)
August 2011  (2)
July 2011  (13)
June 2011  (11)
May 2011  (2)
April 2011  (4)
March 2011  (6)
February 2011  (2)
January 2011  (7)
October 2010  (1)
September 2010  (19)
August 2010  (5)
July 2010  (6)
June 2010  (1)
May 2010  (4)
April 2010  (4)
March 2010  (5)
February 2010  (3)
January 2010  (4)
November 2009  (7)
October 2009  (7)
September 2009  (9)
August 2009  (7)
July 2009  (7)
June 2009  (2)
April 2009  (2)
March 2009  (5)
February 2009  (2)
January 2009  (3)
December 2008  (2)
November 2008  (5)
October 2008  (14)
September 2008  (11)
August 2008  (4)
July 2008  (4)
June 2008  (8)
May 2008  (15)
April 2008  (17)
March 2008  (9)
February 2008  (4)
October 2007  (1)
Links
A. E. Waite at Adepti
Adam McLean’s Art Tarot Weblog
AeclecticTarot & Forum
American Tarot Assoc.-ATA
Amy's Tarot Journal
Andy’s Playing Cards/Tarot
Anima Tarot
Arcanalogue
Arnell Ando’s Art Site
Ask the Wild Bee
Assoc. for Tarot Studies- ATS
Barbara Moore/Tarot Pathways
Beth Owl's Daugther
Builders of the Adytum
buildyourmetaphysicalbusiness
Catherine – Tarot Elements
Cathy McClelland-Star Tarot Deck
Corrine Kenner/Shuffle
Cultural Association "Le Tarot"
Daughters of Divination
Donnaleigh's Tarot
Douglas Gibb's Tarot Eon
Dream Gates-Robert Moss
Ed Buryn, Vagabond
Enrique Enriquez/taro-logy(beta)
Ferol Humphrey
Fool Stop Tarot-US Games
Gaian Tarot Artist’s Journal
Geraldine Amaral/TheSpiritualTarot
Ginny Hunt/78 Notes to Self
Holly’s Rider-Waite Site
ironsidestarot
James Ricklef's Tarot Blog
James Wells/Evolutionary Tarot
Jan's Tarot Guide-Angel Paths
Janine Renées' Tarot Magic Adventures
Jase On Cards
Joan Bunning's Learning the Tarot
Julie Cuccia-Watts
Karen Mahony/baba-studio
Law and Magic
Lenormandcards
Llewellyn – tarot
Ludus Triumphorum
Marcia McCord Tarot Reader
Mark Filipas/Masquerade
Mike Hernandez' Tarot Blog
Museo dei Tarocchi
My Sacred Journey-Katrina Wynne
Myth As Metaphor
Occult of Personality
Omega Institute Tarot Workshops
Playing Cards in Art
Practical Tarot Blog
Pre-Gébelin Tarot History
Pythagorean Tarot
Quirkeries-Sharyn Woerz
Rachel Pollack/Shining Tribe
Raleigh-Durham Tarot Meetup
Roppo’s PCS Works
Roswila’s Tarot Gallery
Seaqueen’s Ask My Cards
Sherryl E. Smith – Tarot Heritage
Soul-Guidance
Stir the Cauldron
Students-of-Tarot
Supertarot
Tarot Art-Ra Horakhty Tarot
Tarot Assoc. of the British Isles-TABI
Tarot by Paris/Paris Finley
Tarot Dude
Tarot Elements
Tarot for Life/site&forum
Tarot Guild of Aotearoa (NZ)
Tarot Guild of Australia
Tarot Heritage – Sherryl Smith
Tarot India
Tarot Passages
Tarot Pathways/Podcasts
Tarot Professionals
Tarot Speakeasy-Tali Goodwin
Tarot Totes (bag sales)
Tarot University Arkletters
Tarot-to-Go
Tarot.com/Library
TarotbyArwen
Tarotecards App
TarotGals-Janet Boyer
TarotGarden (deck sales)
Tarotgirl's Weblog
Tarotpedia
TarotTeachings-Avia Venefica
Tero/Tarotpuu
The Tarot Channel
The Tarot Connection
The Tarot Guild
The Tarot School
The Wild Hunt
Trionfi—Origins & History
Villa Revak
William Blake Tarot Readings
RSS - Posts RSS - Comments
Pages
BIO
EMAIL
EVENTS
Egypt, Tarot and Mystery School Initiations
GD Glossary
PUBLICATIONS
Blog Stats
1,206,368 hits
«
Previous Entries
Next Entries
»
Blog at WordPress.com . The Tarski Theme .
Subscribe to feed.
Follow
Follow “Mary K. Greer's Tarot Blog”
Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.
Join 6,241 other followers
Build a website with WordPress.com
Add your thoughts here... (optional)
Post to
Cancel