Jabberwock: May 2008
Jabberwock
"It seems very pretty," she said, "but it's rather hard to understand."
About me
My books
Long-form writing
Saturday, May 31, 2008
Sri Lanka photos 2: elephants (and elephant produce)
We began the elephant leg of the tour at the
Pinnewala elephant orphanage
just off the Kandy road – a key tourist attraction for anyone visiting non-coastal Lanka. There are shops here that sell products made of elephant dung. On average you get 4 kg of dung from each elephant per day, and that’s enough to produce 48 poster-sized sheets of paper. Even if you know that the dung-processing is very efficient and scientific, and that the raw material is basically reduced to a collection of fibre after being boiled and treated for a few hours, you can’t help some Beavis-and-Butthead snickering at how proud the shop-owners are of dung products. “Sir, this notepad is more expensive because the pages are all made of
pure elephant dung
– see!” Two weeks ago I would never have guessed that I’d be photographing a pile of elephant poo, much less putting it up on my blog, but one learns new things about life every day. In the background are the rectangular frames that are used to mix the dung fibre and pulp together, and make coloured paper. An elephant skeleton in the shop factory. Just so you know what it looks like. On a happier note, live elephants on their way to the nearby river for their afternoon bath. It’s a major tourist attraction out here – you can see some of the paparazzi in the background.
This chap’s something of a local legend. One of his front feet was blown away by a landmine and he limps around on three legs. Treads very cautiously and stays near the edge of the river, doesn’t go in too deep. There’s talk of getting him a prosthetic if money can be raised. One of the mahouts takes a quick nap under the shelter of a rock – it was a hot day. A family appropriates one of the rocks for itself. The little one was very enthusiastic throughout. Lady elephants are better at public displays of affection, much the same way it is with humans. This one kept nuzzling her husband's belly with her trunk. He seemed to enjoy it but he didn't reciprocate - looked straight ahead. Abhilasha feeds a baby elephant. After seeing the photo my mother, in the tradition of all good mothers-in-law, remarked that they have exactly the same smile on their faces, though Abhi is definitely missing a trunk. From our
“brave and adventurous”
elephant safari in Sigiriya. Sitting on the guy’s neck was quite an experience – very powerful muscles = free butt massage. Don’t miss his crossed hind legs. He took us into the lake as well. In the background is the Sigiriya rock fortress – more on that in the next post. ( Click photos to enlarge )
Posted by
Jabberwock
at
5:35 PM
9 comments:
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share to Pinterest
Friday, May 30, 2008
Sri Lanka photos - 1
Am putting the pics up in random order over a few posts, along with some commentary. ( Click photos to enlarge .) Nearly everywhere we travel, we manage to do some impromptu “cat tourism” and the pattern continued in Lanka; our guide was befuddled by the greater interest we showed in the feline-life than in the monuments and sculptures he was pointing out. The most impressive of the kitties we encountered was this little model of piety in the Ruwanvelisaya stupa complex in
Anuradhapura . He/she remained in this position all the time we were there – arms stretched out in prayer, feet folded in a distinctly yogic posture. Didn’t move at all. I also like the expression on the woman's face. Another languid (but not as saintly) cat outside the Arunalu Spice and Herbal Garden, just before Kandy. Once we were done tickling this one’s belly, we dutifully spent some time inside the garden, admiring the plants, learning about the preparation of the very distinct curry powder that is used in nearly all Lankan cuisine. (The yellow daal was consistently excellent, though it isn’t for delicate stomachs.) Had some fine herbal tea too – very fresh, like all the tea and juices we had in the country. But still running with the animal theme: here’s a bedraggled mongrel on a cold and damp day in Nuwara Eliya. I was very taken by the topography of this place. Had thought it would be like a north Indian hill station, situated on a mountainside so that you have to negotiate steep and winding roads uphill or downhill even to travel just a few kilometers. But Nuwara Eliya is on a plateau, so even though it’s 2,000 metres above sea level there are vast patches of flat land, including the area occupied by the lake you see in this photo. Much more relaxing on the whole for people who suffer from motion sickness on mountain roads. Some of the scenery also reminded me of the Scottish highlands; these photos don't really do it justice. Hanuman temple in Nuwara Eliya. The people who built it claim this was the spot where
Sita
was kept captive by Ravana, and where
Hanuman
found her. Naturally, this means that they have a spot on one of the rocks marked with yellow to show that this was the indent left by the deity's giant foot when he landed here. Also, one of the lake-beds in this region has a black-ish tinge, which has to mean that this is where Hanuman dipped his tail after it had been set on fire. (More on tourism overkill in a subsequent post.) Next to the temple, there's a flower nursery dedicated to the abducted goddess, with her name spelt very differently from the north Indian style. One of the performers in the mask dance, part of a cultural show we saw at the Kandy Arts Association Hall. Picked up a few of these masks later. And the Raban dance, which involves the balancing of several spinning drums. Very impressive. Apologies for the picture quality though - dark hall, poor vantage point. The ancient capital of Anuradhapura is full of old buildings and ruins, not all of which seem very well-maintained. We had a decent enough time there but it could have been better: we were there at the hottest time of day, there was very little shade and lots of walking to be done, much of it barefoot. This is the Isurumuniya temple, dating from the 5th century, along with a famous carving of forbidden lovers. Also from Anuradhapura: a section of the semi-circular moonstone in the Abhayagiri monastery, with its motifs of buffaloes, lions, horses and elephants - some say the animals stand for the four stages of life, though there are other interpretations too.
(In the miniature versions that we saw in souvenir shops, the swans looked like Donald Ducks.) Also, a guardstone, with the guard carrying a pot of plenty, representing prosperity and fertility. More pics to follow, including several that involve elephants.
Posted by
Jabberwock
at
5:21 PM
5 comments:
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share to Pinterest
Thursday, May 29, 2008
Back
Well, the vacation happened and it was nice, which is just as well since tough times loom ahead – the family situation is getting more intense generally. Shortly after touching down I learnt that my grandfather had passed away around 36 hours earlier. My dadi, one of the strongest, most pragmatic people I know, decided not to call and inform us because she felt it would spoil the last day of our stay and anyhow we couldn’t have made it back to Delhi more than a few hours before we were scheduled to. We missed the cremation, and that’s something I feel very bad about. My last memory of dadaji is of him wishing us well, telling us to “have a good time in Ceylon”. He turned 90 this March and much of his natural poise and authority – which impressed so many people during his lengthy army career – had been undermined after a stroke a couple of years ago. But he was still very alert given his age and circumstances, and still partial to a peg of scotch every evening. Also, the vaguely old-world British style of speaking English was in place till the end. “How are you, my dear?” he would say to dadiji each morning in a clipped but warm voice, though most of their longer conversations were in Punjabi. They would have celebrated their 60th anniversary later this year and I worry about how she will cope. She had been prepared for his passing for a long time, and often voiced her hope that he would be the first to go (since he was so dependent on her), but dealing with the actual loss is of course a completely different matter. They had been together since she was 20 and he 30, and though it wasn’t a love marriage in the often-myopic way that we use that term today, it was built on respect, an attachment that kept growing over the years and an understanding that adjustments had to be made (in both directions, not just on her part) given their very different natures. They traveled the world together on his postings, on one occasion living for years in another country with no other family to depend on; they brought up a son who was to be a constant source of disappointment and trouble, and later in life they did everything they could for a grandson who couldn’t always be around for them. It’s difficult to imagine the strength they must have derived from each other through all the good and bad times. Most people don’t have to wait till their thirties to experience losing a grandparent for the first time, but in my case one grandparent (my nana) died before I was born and the other three have had extremely long lives. This has had its good and bad sides. On one hand, it’s been painful to see them get old and fragile, constantly afflicted by illnesses, dependent on domestic help on a day-to-day basis while also dealing with other family woes that I won’t mention here. When Abhilasha and I got married last year, my dadi joked that she wished it had happened when I was in my early or mid-20s since they would have been in better shape then, and would have been able to pamper their granddaughter-in-law the way they would have liked. On the other hand, their longevity has meant that I've been able to spend some quality time with them in the past few years – something that wouldn’t have happened if they had left earlier, when I was in the much more self-involved phase of growing up and working hard to establish myself in my profession. I’ve cherished this extra time, the fact that it’s helped me fulfill a few of my responsibilities towards them, or even make them happy through little things like seeing my name at the top of a newspaper article. Though I’ve lived with my mum and nani since I was a child, I’m also the only grandchild of my dada and dadi, and for all practical purposes their only immediate family too – so the level of responsibility has been high, especially in the past few years as they have grown more infirm. (I should clarify that for most of this time, my dadi has been astonishingly resilient and very determined that my life and work mustn’t be compromised on their account, except in the most extreme situations.) Am going to do what I can to persuade her to stay with us now, but there are many complications, many things that have to be settled first, and none of it is going to happen quickly. It looks like I’m going to be spending a lot of time moving between houses and dealing with tetchy matters in the foreseeable future. Might also have to cut down on work after I’ve finished with the few assignments I have pending. Will post a few old photos of my grandparents once I have them scanned, and will also put up some pictures from Sri Lanka soon, but otherwise it looks like activity here will continue to be sporadic for some time. More updates when possible.
Posted by
Jabberwock
at
10:48 AM
41 comments:
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share to Pinterest
Monday, May 19, 2008
Going to Sri Lanka...
...for a week. Or Ceylon, as my dadi persists in calling it. Much-needed break after all the family illnesses/troubles of the last few months (don’t even want to think about how many enticing travel assignments I’ve had to turn down in the past year). Will mostly be in the highlands and non-coastal areas:
Kandy ,
Nuwara Eliya ,
Sigiriya ,
Dambulla ,
Anuradhapura . Won’t have Net access for most of the time I’m away, but will hopefully have some pictures to put up next week. Back on the 28th. Bye-bye.
Posted by
Jabberwock
at
8:01 PM
15 comments:
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share to Pinterest
The LOTR disc-set
The 12-disc extended edition of
The Lord of the Rings
trilogy
is available in stores in India now. I picked up the set a couple of days ago and it looks sumptuous. As anyone who reads this blog often will know, I make a lot of noise about
DVD extras
and the need for directors to use the medium to provide value-addition for home-viewers (rather than simply have the film on the disc along with a “songs selection” feature, as many DVDs of Hindi films lazily do). Well, what
Peter Jackson
and his team have accomplished with this disc-set represents the most thoughtful use of the medium I’ve yet seen; it’s obvious that they've relished the opportunity to show off the behind-the-scenes material that piled up during the many years of shooting. “Specially created for home viewing” says the package, and the booklet accompanying the set adds that with no constraints on running time, each film was extended by between 30 and 50 minutes (sounds a bit like a 600-word film review being expanded on a blog!). But rather than simply inserting deleted scenes, Jackson approached this Extended Edition as if he were creating a whole new version of the film. He and editor John Gilbert carefully evaluated material to be integrated into the film, and then worked to bring each scene up to the same polish as the rest of the feature – visual effects were completed, dialogue was recorded and sound effects created. Based on what I’ve seen of the discs so far, these are no idle claims. Each of the three films in the trilogy –
The Fellowship of the Ring ,
The Two Towers
and
The Return of the King
– has its own box with four discs. Two of the discs in each box are labeled Appendices and Jackson himself introduces these, explaining the bonus features and how the menus should be navigated. The features include dozens of good-sized documentaries about various aspects of the filming; galleries with thousands of categorised images (storyboards, artwork created for the production, behind-the-scenes photos); four separate feature-length commentary options (by the director and the writers, the cast, the production and design teams, each group providing a specialised perspective on participating in one of the grandest movie epics ever); and detailed interactive maps, based on the ones that
Tolkien
created for his books, which allow the viewer to trace the routes taken by various sets of characters (a mini-screen simultaneously plays part of the relevant scene from the film, so the various complicated place names can be easily related to the landscapes in the movies). Whoever put this material together must have had a lot of fun doing it. Of course, to get through all these features you have to be an obsessive fan of the trilogy, or a Tolkien-nerd, and also have an obscene amount of free time on your hands. It’s staggering to think of how much time would be required to navigate
everything
on this set. The films by themselves add up to around 12 hours and if you were to listen to all four of the commentary tracks (I
did
say you have to be obsessive), that means a cool 48 hours spent in front of your TV screen. The documentaries run into several hours too, and it’s impossible to estimate the amount of time needed to see all of the images in the galleries or to study all the map routes. I doubt I’ll be able to do all of this anytime soon, but for now I’ve watched the extended version of
The Fellowship of the Ring
as well as bits of
The Return of the King , and the extra material has been quite good, especially the quieter scenes that punctuate the grand moments (this is something I occasionally thought was missing in the films when I saw them on the big screen): such as the melancholy scene early in the first film where Frodo and Sam watch a group of ghostlike, fading elves marching slowly towards the ships that will take them to Valinor; or the confrontation between the heroes and Sauron's sarcastic messenger (known as the “Mouth of Sauron”) outside the Black Gates of Mordor just before the final battle begins. More info
here ,
here
and
here .
Posted by
Jabberwock
at
9:54 AM
6 comments:
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share to Pinterest
Labels:
films ,
Tolkien
Sunday, May 18, 2008
Waiter, there’s a drop of soup in my plate!
It’s not often that I’m struck dumb in a restaurant, but this happened at the
Smoke House Grill
in Greater Kailash a few days go. We had been warned by food-journo colleagues that the place is basically a bar that makes a very half-hearted effort at serving meals, but we were meeting friends on a short time-frame and our preferred haunt in the complex ( Mainland China ) had a long waiting queue, so we plodded across to Smoke House instead. There were four of us. Since we weren’t hugely keen on the appetizers, we decided to order two soups and split them. All went well up to the moment we were placing the order and the phrase “1 into 2” was used. At this, the waiter smiled sadly and shook his head. “Sorry sir,” he said, “Our soup portion is too small and it cannot be divided further.” Coming from a member of the serving staff at a high-profile restaurant, this was a startling proclamation, but we recovered our poise. “Never mind how small it is,” said my wife, “We’ll make do. Just bring it in two bowls.” “Ma’am, no!” he replied, with greater conviction, and the overall demeanor of a man who has fought these battles before and emerged triumphant each time, “It is very, very small. We don’t have bowls that are small enough.” After he left we sat about muttering at each other, marveling at this conundrum of the indivisible soup. He was probably exaggerating, we decided, or maybe he was in a bad mood and taking it out on us; or this was a management ploy to get diners to order extra dishes (if so, we had foiled it by sticking to our original order). At any rate, the portions couldn’t be THAT small – we figured we could still pass the bowls around the table. But then the soup arrived and it turned out that the waiter knew his beat. It was served in one of the most impressively designed pieces of crockery I have seen. Imagine a largish dinner plate – 14 or so inches in diameter – with a tiny bit in the centre hollowed out to make a circular cavity that can accommodate around 40 ml of liquid. Into this hollow was poured the soup, very carefully, so that not a drop
would spill out onto the rest of the plate. One of the soups was tomato and it must in fairness be said that it was aesthetically pleasing: a blob of orange surrounded by acres and acres of white plate – like a fried egg with an exceptionally small yolk. But they should have given us a complementary magnifying glass. Providing a visual break was a tiny piece of
maida
floating despondently in the middle of the thin, translucent liquid. They called this a dimsum, but that’s a bit like calling
Frodo Baggins
the
Great Khali . We suspect that the only reason the chefs allowed this food item to be pried from their grasp was that it would displace the volume of the liquid and raise the soup level, thus giving the impression that it was three spoonfuls instead of two. “You didn’t have to bother with the big plate,” one of my friends called out, “You could have served the soup in a ladle instead.” The waiter simply grinned and walked away – it was obvious that this wasn't the first time he was hearing this joke. But the restaurant did make amends for the small soup in the end – the bill was a large one. P.S.
While on food, a recommendation for Delhiites interested in Malaysian cuisine. There’s this very promising new place called Kayalan (website
here ) – it’s based in Neb Sarai in extreme south Delhi but it does home-delivery far and wide (even up to central Delhi as far as I know). I’ve tried their Nasi Goreng (which is a staple order for me at an Oriental restaurant), Otak Otak (steamed fish fillet in banana leaves) and marinated Pandan chicken, and all of it has been very good. Abhilasha, who ordered from there with her office crowd a few days ago (the ball-and-chain routine has a few side-advantages!), also recommends the Char Kway Teow, which is a stir-fried preparation of rice noodles with prawn or crab. You’ll find the details on the Menu section of the website.
Posted by
Jabberwock
at
11:50 AM
10 comments:
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share to Pinterest
Labels:
food ,
funny posts (supposedly)
Phew!
I think I lost around 10 years of my life watching
this match
yesterday - almost feel like I played the thing myself. Warrior moment for
Rafa , holding on to his number 2 ranking in the face of some absolutely superb clay-court tennis by Djokovic. Great match from both guys, great last game (which went on for something like 20 minutes). Rafa meets Federer in the
Hamburg final today , but I really don't care whether he wins or not. Yesterday was enough. I spend a lot of my spare time on the
Tennis World blog
and it's been interesting to see how the arrival of Djokovic in the last few months seems to have united Federer and Nadal fans. Roger's groupies were actually cheering Rafa on yesterday (though that's partly because if Rafa had lost the number 2 spot, he might have been seeded to meet Roger in the French Open semi-final this year instead of the final, and that would have been frazzle-inducing for any Federer fan). The camaraderie between both groups of fans has been quite remarkable in recent months, especially given all the rancour that used to be directed at Rafa when he first came on to the scene. (More on that in
these
posts , about sports-fans and their perceptions.) A lot of that rancour is now being directed at Djokovic, who is seen as the cocky young upstart trying to overturn the established order, but I think he'll start building up goodwill for himself in the next few months. So it goes in sport. P.S. : if none of this makes any sense to you, look away. I usually do a good job of keeping my very intense life as a tennis fanatic away from this blog, but have to unburden every once in a while.
Posted by
Jabberwock
at
10:38 AM
7 comments:
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share to Pinterest
Labels:
sports ,
tennis
Thursday, May 15, 2008
Bhoot camp: notes on
Bhoothnath
I had very low expectations going in to see
Bhoothnath
(I feared it would be the culmination in a series of dreadful films –
U, Me aur Hum ,
Goal
and
Jodhaa Akbar
being among the others – that
Tehelka
has asked me to review in recent weeks) and the first half-hour lived down to these expectations. After a five-minute preamble that could have come out of any B-movie about teens in a spooky mansion, we meet a family of three, newly arrived in Goa. Aditya (Shah Rukh Khan in a relaxed cameo) is a cruise-ship engineer who is setting sail soon, leaving his wife Anjali (Juhi Chawla) and their little son, the unfortunately nicknamed Banku (Aman Siddiqui), in an old haveli rented by his employers. It’s a very large house and much is made of its largeness (“ Upar chhat bhi hai !” the freshly arrived tenants marvel in unison, leaving us to imagine what the place might have looked like if it had been otherwise). As Banku discovers late one night, it’s haunted too: the ghost of a former owner, Kailash Nath (Amitabh Bachchan), doesn’t want people straying into his personal fiefdom and will do everything he can to scare them off. But he hasn’t reckoned with Banku, who starts bossing him around instead. The early scenes had a very amateurish feel about them, as if they had been written and shot in two or three days. The slapstick, built around Satish Shah as a school principal who covets the children’s lunches, was tedious – you could point out that I’m probably not the target audience for this anyway, but there were a few kids sitting in my row in the hall and they appeared just as unimpressed by the onscreen tomfoolery (they were more animated when an Etam lingerie ad played just before the film began). And while I don’t think it’s possible for Juhi Chawla to be less than likable, she looks tired and worn-out here, a reminder that it’s been exactly 20 years since QSQT and that we too are growing old. Watching Amitabh in his early scenes, I mused that he may have taken on this role only because he was playing Babban Singh in
RGV’s Aag
at the time and he could simply step into the studio next door without changing his clothes or washing up. (Personal hygiene is not high on Bhoothnath’s priority list and in the first few scenes he strongly resembles Babban in
Aag . Even some of AB’s facial gestures – scowling menacingly at the camera, sticking out his tongue and wiggling it around – play like outtakes from the earlier performance. Bhoothnath’s attempts to scare Banku are just as ineffectual as Babban’s efforts to convince the audience that he is the ultimate bad-ass villain.) But then, almost imperceptibly (and much to my surprise), the film found its footing and started to improve. As Bhoothnath and Banku develop an unlikely bond, Amitabh slowly sinks his chomps into his role and you sense that he’s enjoying himself (which is an impression I haven’t got in some of his other recent work) in the company of young Siddiqui. There are some good visual effects – I liked the scenes with the dry leaves and the furniture rearrangement, and the goofy touches such as Bhoothnath gliding through the gates of the haveli as if he’s doing the moonwalk. The highlight of the film’s middle section is the gentle, nicely shot song “Chalo Jaane Do”, sung by Amitabh and Juhi in their own voices. (Another song, “Mere Buddy”, where ghost and boy groove and hip-hop with glamorous back-up dancers, isn’t as melodious, but it had me wondering if the support staff were Bhoothnath’s friends from the spirit world – if so, this could be the first convincing explanation for the extras in a Bollywood dance number moving like zombies.) The genre-change trick In earlier reviews, I’ve touched on the schizophrenia of many current Hindi films – the tendency to split themselves down the middle in a simplified attempt to provide viewers “the complete package”, so that the movie you see post-intermission is completely different in tone from what went before. ( U, Me aur Hum
was the worst offender.) This happens in the final half-hour of
Bhoothnath
too. When the ghost's back-story is revealed, what started as a fantasy for children changes direction to become a family melodrama – full of teary-eyed speeches and recrimination – about demanding parents, insensitive progeny, the importance of forgiveness and the even greater importance of performing ceremonies around a sacred fire. I had a mixed response to this change of tone. It’s jarring and inconsistent with the first half of the film, and my feelings about religion and the religious indoctrination of children being what they are, I strongly disapproved of the climactic scenes where Banku is made to participate in a
shraadh
ritual to help Bhoothnath’s
atma
find
mukti . **
Personally, I would have been happier with a climactic martial-arts confrontation between Bhoothnath’s ghost and his evil, westernised daughter-in-law (the source of much of the old man’s misery while he was alive). But if you accept that this is the film's premise, the dramatic scenes – however misguided in their conception – are well-executed on their own terms. Director Vivek Sharma and his writers seemed more assured and on firmer ground with the family-drama material than with the kiddie stuff that precedes it. Of course, this means that
Bhoothnath
ends up being something of a hotchpotch, but are we really looking for narrative unity in this movie anyway? The later scenes might feel out of place, but you can just as easily say that about the fantasy song early on, which has Banku and the other schoolkids dressed in colourful cargo pants, vests, headbands and cheerleader outfits, and carrying basketballs and pom-poms. In the final analysis, the question that must be asked of
Bhoothnath , as of many other mainstream Hindi films, is not "Is this movie internally consistent?" but "Does it have enough 'paisa vasool' scenes in it, even if those scenes are randomly dispersed and should logically belong in several different films?" My answer to the second question is yes, but only just, and as always it depends on what your definition of paisa-vasool is. **
Footnote: there IS humour to be found in the
shraadh
scene, if you know where to look for it: the almost diabolically gleeful expression on little Banku’s face as he pours stuff into the divine fire gives the impression that he’s offering burnt flesh to a very vengeful God. Also, with all the speculation about the testy off-screen relationship between Shah Rukh and Amitabh, there’s something cheekily appropriate about SRK participating in a ritual that will send AB packing to an indeterminate other-world. (At the end of the film, when the ghost disappears and Banku dolefully asks his dad “ Papa, mera Bhoothnath kahaan gaya ?”, my wife preempted Shah Rukh’s reply: “ Tere Bhoothnath ki aisi ki taisi! Ab saare
endorsements
mere !”)
Posted by
Jabberwock
at
4:54 PM
11 comments:
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share to Pinterest
Labels:
Amitabh Bachchan ,
films ,
Indian cinema ,
New Hindi cinema
Wednesday, May 14, 2008
Random signboard
At the Metro construction site in Saket.
Not sure what it means but it sounds profound in an awkward sort of way. Those boards you see towards the left contain elaborately detailed commandments - lists of dos and don'ts - for the construction workers. Very impressive stuff, such as "Kindly do not accept drugs and alcohol from strange persons".
Posted by
Jabberwock
at
8:14 AM
9 comments:
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share to Pinterest
Friday, May 09, 2008
A few notes on
The Seven Samurai
Last week I treated myself to a couple of mini-film festivals at home, watching (mostly re-watching) a few films of a particular director or actor. The honorees included
James Stewart
(whose birth centenary is next week) and
Akira Kurosawa , and the festival high point, apart from re-experiencing the gorgeousness of
Vertigo
in its restored print, was watching
The Seven Samurai
after many years. It was like catching up with old friends. Jaded film buffs often tend to undermine a director’s iconic movies in favour of less-discussed works, but I can’t get over what a timelessly awesome film
The Seven Samurai
is, and how well it holds up to multiple viewings despite its length. So what if this is Kurosawa’s most popular movie: it’s
still
arguably his most organic and satisfying too. (Dare one say: "best"?) A confession here: when I first saw
The Seven Samurai
(the full-length, 3 hour 20 minute version), I was slightly underwhelmed. This could partly be because I’d been expecting a full-blown action movie and didn’t realise that the first two hours would be dedicated to build-up, character development and strategy. Also, being aware that
Samurai
was among the many inspirations for
Sholay , I probably expected a clearer delineation of the heroes and villains and wasn’t quite prepared for the ambiguity about class relations and the parallels the film draws between marauding bandits and noble samurais. (For viewers unfamiliar with class conflicts in 16th century Japan – the mutual distrust between warriors and peasants – it can take a while to appreciate these nuances anyway.) It was only on a second viewing that I was better able to see the film for what it was and everything fell in place. (Later, Donald Richie’s essay in
his excellent Kurosawa book
provided a deeper understanding of context.) Among the many strengths of
The Seven Samurai
are its economy and directness, which the film sustains throughout its long running time. These qualities are evident right from the opening scene, where a group of horse-riding bandits look down at a hillside village and decide that they will attack it once the crop has been harvested. A terrified peasant overhears these plans and reports back to the villagers. After consulting with a wise elder, they decide to hire itinerant samurai to protect them from the bandits, in exchange for food. They travel to a nearby town in groups to look for master-less samurai (ronin), but their offers are rejected. Then they happen to witness a rescue operation performed by a composed, elderly samurai named Kambei; he agrees to help them and sets about assembling a band of warriors for the task. We are introduced to these recruits one by one, and we also meet the swaggering, clownish Kikuchiyo, a man who was born a peasant but is trying desperately to cross over to the warrior class – to become a samurai by dint of his actions. He is eventually allowed into the group and preparations begin for the battles ahead. I was wrong to think of “action” in
The Seven Samurai
purely in terms of the actual battle scenes; Kurosawa’s mastery of shot composition and sweeping camera movements bring a kinetic energy to even the quieter scenes. The film is full of superb setpieces, such as the shot of Kikuchiyo sitting on a rooftop with the samurai banner in his hand, suddenly looking up at the hills and seeing dozens of bandits riding down towards the village. But remarkably, each of these scenes also has a built-in intimacy. Never do you get the sense that the action in this film exists in isolation – it is informed by, and enriched by, what we gradually learn about the characters. Take the master swordsman Kyozu, the most Zen-like of the samurai, a man devoted to the perfection of his art for its own sake, rather than to material rewards or the pleasure of battle. There’s a quietly beautiful scene where Kyozu and the excitable Kikuchiyo are on a stake-out together, waiting to ambush three bandit spies. While Kikuchiyo keeps a lookout from atop a tree, grimacing and making dramatic gestures, Kyozu sits in an almost meditative state underneath, picking a flower and gazing at it. When the bandits arrive, he calmly rises, draws his sword and dispatches two of them with unhurried professionalism while Kikuchiyo elects to play the fool, jumping on the third man clumsily and beating him with his hands. (Note: in a video essay about the film on my DVD, the narrator observes that Seiji Miyaguchi’s’s deadpan performance as Kyozu recalls the “impassive gravity and grace” of Buster Keaton! The comparison makes me giggle, for various reasons.) Shimura and Mifune Like
Sholay ,
The Seven Samurai
is much greater than the sum of its parts. Still, the personalities of its two most prominent characters, as well as the performances of the actors playing those roles, make for a fascinating contrast:
Takashi Shimura
as the charismatic, soft-spoken but authoritative Kambei, who inspires and leads the samurai; and
Toshiro Mifune
as his polar opposite, the loud-mouthed but endearing Kikuchiyo, who constantly betrays his insecurities by trying too hard to impress. If Kambei is the cerebral force of the film, Kikuchiyo is its emotional centre, its beating heart, and Shimura and Mifune (whose roles in the earlier Kurosawa films
Stray Dog
and
Drunken Angel
are worlds removed from their roles here) are both exemplary. As played by Shimura, Kambei exudes integrity and discipline, but he never comes across as humourless or dictatorial. The warm, self-effacing smile on his face is the smile of a man who has learnt, through hard experience, to be stoical about many things, and it’s easy to see why the others hold him in reverence. Mifune, on the other hand, makes the most of the flashiest role in the film – this is one of the greatest comic performances I’ve seen (and one that Dharmendra’s Veeru in
Sholay
owes a big debt to, as Anangbhai points out in a comment on
this old post ). Scenes like the one where Kikuchiyo sounds the alarm in jest and then makes fun of the villagers’ panicked response, or when he steals a gun from one of the bandits, or tries to master a recalcitrant horse, all make for superb physical comedy. Time and again, we get evidence of what Kurosawa meant when he observed once that Mifune “could convey in a single movement what it took most actors three separate movements to express”. A favourite scene My favourite 30 seconds in the film begin with a shot of Kikichiyo sulking by himself on a rock shortly after he has delivered an impassioned monologue to the other samurai, expressing his ambivalent feelings about both the farmer and warrior class. Now he’s sitting alone, heavily (and somewhat ridiculously) clad in the armour that the villagers have stolen from other samurai in the past, and even as a still image this is a lovely, poetic composition: a bear of a man hunched up in a defensive position, arms drawn tightly around himself, eyebrows furrowed in wrath. (The expression on Mifune’s face is so uncomplicatedly angry here that I can easily picture the shot as a panel in a
maanga
comic, with a little wisp of smoke drawn over his head to indicate blackness of mood!) At this point, the young ronin Katsushiro – unaware of what has transpired between Kikuchiyo and the other samurai – approaches, starts to say something in a friendly tone and draws back as Kikuchiyo snarls and waves a spear at him. Kikuchiyo then jumps up and stalks away. The village children come running after him (he is, after all, the most accessible of the samurai and the villagers have become charmed by his constant buffoonery) and in a very judicious use of sound editing, we hear the children’s combined cries of delight
before
we see them enter the screen from the left. (It's a bit like bird sounds.) Kikuchiyo turns, stomps his feet at them and continues walking away; even though he should by rights seem like a threatening figure here, his movements are childishly petulant, and the scene is a reminder that this is a boy in a man’s body. There is immense energy in this nearly wordless sequence, made even more forceful by the dust sweeping across the background, a reminder of the strong wind constantly blowing through the village, dramatically heralding the action that lies ahead. (Heavy rain plays an equally vital role in the final battles.) And it defines Kikuchiyo’s character (his internal confusion, his uncertainty about his place in the world) more effectively than pages of dialogue could. But like I said, it's only 30 seconds in a great three-and-a-half-hour film. P.S.
for more about the film’s subtexts – including the story’s relevance to early 20th century Japan – see
this lengthy review
on the DVD Verdict site. And
Donald Richie’s book
is a must-have for any Kurosawa fan. P.P.S.
Anyone interested in doing me a good turn many kindly gift me
the three-disc edition
of the film released by Criterion, which has a treasure trove of supplementary material. The DVD I own only has a shortish video essay. [A post on Kurosawa's
Yojimbo
here , and one on Donald Richie
here .]
Posted by
Jabberwock
at
7:41 PM
13 comments:
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share to Pinterest
Labels:
Akira Kurosawa ,
films ,
Japanese cinema ,
Samurai ,
Toshiro Mifune ,
world cinema
Wednesday, May 07, 2008
Roads less traveled
[ From my Metro Now column – another in a series of trying-hard-to-be-optimistic pieces about the traffic situation in Delhi ] Every dark cloud has a silver lining, we are constantly told, but the adage forgets to add that at times the lining must be surgically attached. This can be accomplished by grabbing the squirming cloud, pinning it to the ground, stitching the silver lining painfully into its side and then adding a few layers of cellotape as extra precaution. The silver lining for the satirically named
“bus rapid transit”
corridor – a cloud that has been brooding above Delhi for the last few weeks – is that it will eventually free up a lot of retail space in our city. The reason is that many offices will empty out as people decide to make productive use of traffic jams and convert their vehicles into workstations. This is the most efficient solution to the current problem of south Delhi-based worker ants leaving their homes early in the morning and reaching their central Delhi offices in the late afternoon, just as things are beginning to wind up for the day. (All you can really do in office at that time is to go out for a long coffee-and-gossip break, which – as all conscientious and disdainful freelancers know – is the only thing offices are good for anyway.) As more of these rapid-transit bus corridors mushroom across the city, I foresee a huge change in Delhi’s working culture. Since the government is too pigheaded to reverse a plan it has already set in motion, it will be forced to do the next best thing: equip all vehicles with free wi-fi, enabling people to turn the clogged roads into office spaces and their cars into cubicles (I only hope some nameless planning committee doesn’t decide to supply broadband cables with “special corridors” for different frequencies). Eventually, we will even be permitted to reserve specific spots along the road. Since auctions are the in-thing these days, public bids can be made for these spaces. I can just see it now: “How much for that 10ft x 8 ft spot in the shade beneath the large gulmohar on Josip Broz Tito Marg, right opposite house number 21? You, sir, in the brown safari suit?” School buildings will become redundant too, because it will be found that classes can just as easily be conducted in vans and buses (which can take a U-turn and drop the kids back home in the afternoon). As the sage said, show me a city with a BRT problem and I’ll show you a city that can live and work on its streets. What’s the point of getting out of the house at all, you may ask. Simple – after finishing your work for the day (which is around the time the traffic jams will start to clear), you can carry along the usual route and make it to office in time for evening conversation with friends. The rate at which Delhi is "developing", this will soon be the only way people will get any socialising done. [Earlier posts on roads and traffic:
A Hitchcockian road rant ,
Cutting Bluelines down to size ,
Jaywalkers ]
Posted by
Jabberwock
at
11:56 AM
7 comments:
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share to Pinterest
Labels:
funny posts (supposedly)
Monday, May 05, 2008
DVD subtitles: He become skinny, punctual and don’t wanna die
The text on some DVD covers is bad enough,
as previously noted , but what’s on the actual disc can be much worse. Can anyone tell me why the English subtitles on old Japanese films are consistently ludicrous? This is something I first discovered while watching Star Movies’ “100 Years of Cinema” telecasts in the early 1990s, and it hasn’t changed through years of going to film festivals/DVD-watching. Even the discs produced by the British Film Institute have subtitles that appear to have been written by someone who took a crash course in Japanese and English the previous weekend and is now acquainted with exactly 10 words in each language, not counting proper nouns. For example, my disc of Kurosawa’s
Ikiru
– about an elderly bureaucrat, Watanabe, discovering he has stomach cancer and just six months to live – nearly manages a difficult feat: spoiling the impact of this very elegiac film. One problem is the incongruous use of slang (“I wanna die earlier, but I cannot die!” bewails the melancholy Watanabe), but those sentences are at least comprehensible. What to make of this exchange? Woman : Dad is punctual to go out. Visitor at doorstep : But he has not applied into work, that’s why I come here. [Translation: The woman, Watanabe’s housekeeper, is saying, “Dad left for work early today.” The visitor at the door, Watanabe’s colleague, is startled to hear this because the bureaucrat has not been coming in to work for a few days.] Then there’s the bit where Watanabe’s son finds out that his father has withdrawn a large sum of money from the bank, and a family friend speculates that he is out having a good time: Family friend : 50,000 dollars! It is great to spend it on women! Son : No, wouldn’t be! Family friend : That would surprise you? I think he is erotic. He does all good for you for 20 years. Now, it is his time to explode. Family friend’s wife
( speculating that Watanabe hasn’t been looking well of late ): He become skinny with rough skin. Meanwhile, Watanabe, distraught that he has cancer (and also that he is being discussed in such terrible translation), meets a writer at a bar and tells him about his illness. Writer : You should not drink the wines! It is like committing suicide if you know yourself of cancer. Watanabe
( in keeping with the Noh tradition of adding an ‘s’ to nearly every word ): Sometimes wines helps forgets unhappy things. Upon hearing this, I hit the Pause button, poured myself a large glass of wine and then resumed watching. A few minutes later, the words were making much more sense.
Posted by
Jabberwock
at
3:55 PM
20 comments:
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share to Pinterest
Labels:
films ,
Japanese cinema ,
language ,
world cinema
Saturday, May 03, 2008
Review
With minimum comment, here are selected sentences from Khalid Mohammed’s review of the film
Anamika , in today’s HT: Ananth Narayan Mahadevan’s
Anamika
treats Alfred Hitchcock’s
Rebecca
(1940) as if it were chewing gum. Chomp, chomp, chomp till it’s tasteless and tiresome. Surely
Hitch
would have gone burp
re
burp. [I don’t know whether the italicized
Hitch
is a copy-desk goof-up or an attempt to somehow link Hitchcock’s nickname with the Will Smith film. Also love the “1940” after “Rebecca” – so particular about details, aren’t we?] The plot roast thickens. A cop (Gulshan Glower) eats kilos and kilos of goose liver. You get fever. His wife keeps going “Quack, quack” as if she were in a quackie movie. [Might
this
be a "quackie movie"?] and Dino Morea and Minisha Lamba must be making Laurence Olivier and Joan Fontaine rock and roll in their graves. [Interesting that reviewers who
use phrases like “rock and roll in their graves”,
and pride themselves on writing for the casual moviegoer, think it’s okay to drop Olivier and Fontaine into a piece like this without clarifying who they might be] Update :
Joan Fontaine
is still alive.
Posted by
Jabberwock
at
10:36 AM
15 comments:
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share to Pinterest
Thursday, May 01, 2008
Death (and embarrassment) by SMS
Take
this
news item from Turkey, about a misplaced character in an SMS sent by a husband to his estranged wife resulting in two gruesome deaths. Of course, a language where the omission of a single dot in a single word can completely change the meaning of a sentence is begging for trouble, but this is a universal problem. Those of us who use the Dictionary facility on our cellphones will know that a particular arrangement of letters can create two or more very different words, e.g. “awake” and “cycle”, or “ocean” and “madam”, and that this can cause confusion. If the sender isn’t careful, a perfectly harmless sentence like “Federer just crushed Djokovic in the semis” can come out reading “Federer just brushed Djokovic in the penis”. (Don’t ask me how I know this.) This puts me in mind of an incident from a few years ago. Some of us had been invited to a colleague’s place for a debauched late-night party – it didn’t
have
to be debauched (you could choose to be well-behaved, sip a mocktail and check out by 11 PM), but the possibility was always open. It was an all-night affair at a large house, the sort of place where a hormonally charged couple seeking privacy might at any time stumble into an empty room together, accidentally bolt the door from within and then get down to playing “Doctor”. One friend who didn’t know the host very well had a younger sister with no plans for the evening, so he asked someone else to check if he could take her along (since they weren’t planning to stay very late, he figured she wouldn’t be exposed to any of the murkier sub-plots that might ensue). “Can we bring Amit’s sister?” typed Rajesh into his phone, except that he wrote “Amits” as a five-letter word without the apostrophe and didn’t closely read what he was typing, so that the message that went forth was “Can we bring bogus sister?”
To make matters worse, our host, an expert in all sorts of shady party requests, interpreted “bogus sister” (or “fake sister”, take your pick) as “a girl of pliable morals, whom you wouldn’t want to publicly introduce as your steady – or even friend – but who is good for fooling around with at binges”.
Human beings can be wonderfully inventive when it comes to slang and euphemism. Thus it was that Rajesh, Amit and the latter’s sweet and innocent sibling had barely arrived when the host – already high on some obscure weed – leeringly asked her if she wanted an empty room immediately and if she would take turns with her two escorts or handle both of them at once. He also recited a short poem he had made up on the spot, which employed a series of salty Punjabi words and, at one point, rhymed “sister” with the Hindi “bistar” (bed).
A nasty scuffle resulted – one that could certainly have turned out worse if there had been weapons at arm’s reach. It didn’t end as unhappily as the episode in Turkey, but there were no more parties (or at least none that our group came to know about) at this house for several months. Not that we ever learn from these incidents. In an earlier post, I’ve mentioned the time I bought the DVD of
The Pink Panther
and hurriedly dashed off an SMS to friends asking if they wanted to see it over the weekend, only to have one of them call back and ask why I wanted to show him pink panties on a Saturday (or any other day for that matter). More recently, I conducted a fruitless online search for an intriguingly titled book after a friend messaged to ask “Have you read Phobia Deer, new book, sounds interesting”, only to discover that he was asking about Shobhaa De’s latest.
Posted by
Jabberwock
at
6:11 PM
10 comments:
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share to Pinterest
Labels:
evil cellphones ,
funny posts (supposedly)
Newer Posts
Older Posts
Home
Subscribe to:
Posts (Atom)
Monthly archives
Monthly archives
October 2015 (8)
September 2015 (10)
August 2015 (8)
July 2015 (7)
June 2015 (5)
May 2015 (8)
April 2015 (5)
March 2015 (9)
February 2015 (4)
January 2015 (5)
December 2014 (8)
November 2014 (4)
October 2014 (5)
September 2014 (7)
August 2014 (8)
July 2014 (7)
June 2014 (4)
May 2014 (4)
April 2014 (6)
March 2014 (7)
February 2014 (11)
January 2014 (6)
December 2013 (8)
November 2013 (7)
October 2013 (6)
September 2013 (6)
August 2013 (6)
July 2013 (7)
June 2013 (6)
May 2013 (9)
April 2013 (8)
March 2013 (13)
February 2013 (9)
January 2013 (16)
December 2012 (15)
November 2012 (11)
October 2012 (13)
September 2012 (10)
August 2012 (8)
July 2012 (7)
June 2012 (9)
May 2012 (9)
April 2012 (8)
March 2012 (12)
February 2012 (6)
January 2012 (11)
December 2011 (12)
November 2011 (14)
October 2011 (11)
September 2011 (13)
August 2011 (11)
July 2011 (11)
June 2011 (13)
May 2011 (8)
April 2011 (12)
March 2011 (14)
February 2011 (16)
January 2011 (10)
December 2010 (15)
November 2010 (14)
October 2010 (11)
September 2010 (12)
August 2010 (16)
July 2010 (10)
June 2010 (10)
May 2010 (10)
April 2010 (10)
March 2010 (11)
February 2010 (9)
January 2010 (7)
December 2009 (9)
November 2009 (5)
October 2009 (11)
September 2009 (11)
August 2009 (5)
July 2009 (8)
June 2009 (7)
May 2009 (6)
April 2009 (8)
March 2009 (10)
February 2009 (6)
January 2009 (16)
December 2008 (13)
November 2008 (12)
October 2008 (10)
September 2008 (17)
August 2008 (14)
July 2008 (19)
June 2008 (14)
May 2008 (14)
April 2008 (12)
March 2008 (15)
February 2008 (13)
January 2008 (17)
December 2007 (16)
November 2007 (17)
October 2007 (17)
September 2007 (17)
August 2007 (18)
July 2007 (13)
June 2007 (17)
May 2007 (17)
April 2007 (17)
March 2007 (20)
February 2007 (17)
January 2007 (16)
December 2006 (19)
November 2006 (15)
October 2006 (19)
September 2006 (18)
August 2006 (18)
July 2006 (18)
June 2006 (15)
May 2006 (17)
April 2006 (17)
March 2006 (21)
February 2006 (18)
January 2006 (24)
December 2005 (23)
November 2005 (17)
October 2005 (23)
September 2005 (20)
August 2005 (20)
July 2005 (28)
June 2005 (32)
May 2005 (32)
April 2005 (18)
March 2005 (33)
February 2005 (24)
January 2005 (30)
December 2004 (31)
November 2004 (30)
October 2004 (43)
September 2004 (28)
Subscribe to Jabberwock
Enter your email address: Delivered by
FeedBurner
My books
Jaane bhi do Yaaro : Seriously Funny Since 1983
and
The Popcorn Essayists: What Movies do to Writers
are available online, on Flipkart and elsewhere
Excess: the Tehelka anthology
An anthology about motherhood
This fine collection includes my essay about Hindi-film mothers
Click here for the video of my TEDx talk about film criticism
Blog pageviews
Films - selected posts
Revisiting J P Dutta's Hathyar
A visual analysis of "Tere Mere Sapne"
On Queen and Kangna Ranaut
Harold Lloyd's Safety Last! - a boy, a city and a pyramid of gags
Pink Saris and Gulabi Gang
Miss Lovely: sleaze and the unmanly man:
A memory of Farooque Shaikh
Lingua fracas in Nayakan and Inglourious Basterds - movie characters confounded by language
Partition and partitions in Qissa: Tale of a Lonely Ghost
Charandas Chor, by Shyam Benegal and Habib Tanvir
An essay in defence of the song sequence
Heroism on an intimate scale - Hansal Mehta's Shahid
Notes from MAMI - Jafar Panahi's Closed Curtain
Game of Thrones - notes on Shuddh Desi Romance
Visual storytelling in The Lunchbox
Biases in movie-watching: 2 views of John Ford (and Kai po Che)
The strange case of Deepak Dobriyal
Bhuvan Shome, the bureaucrat in his jungle
Love in Madhumati and Vertigo
Love across dimensions: on Vikramaditya Motwane's Lootera
Trio of life - about Ship of Theseus
An elbow on the opposite knee - Rouben Mamoulian on the natural and the true
Lessons in Forgetting - how to "punish" a free-spirited young woman
Meeting Nikhil Bhagat: a former actor remembers his brush with stardom
Arre O Sambha - Naach! On the strange fame of MacMohan
Fathers and storytellers: on Bombay Talkies
A brief encounter with Roger Ebert
A tribute to Balraj Sahni on his 100th
Heil harebrain - how comedy can make villains look ridiculous
Exit, pursued by a bear (the horrors of Aatma)
From Dusk till Yawn - on Django Unchained
About Listen... Amaya
Bimal Roy's Sujata (and the invisible line in "Bachpan ke Din")
Many types of "new" - a discusion about Indian film
Chance and intent: the Walter Murch-Michael Ondaatje conversations
10 trailblazers of modern Hindi cinema
On Stan Brakhage's cinema bizarro
Resul Pookutty on sound design in films
Time and light in Shyam Benegal's Trikaal
Cinemas of India - on NFDC's restored DVDs
Hopkins as Hitchcock, and other imitations of life
Woody Allen, then and now - thoughts on aging stars
Barfi! and the anatomy of a reaction
Half a girl - Jalpari, the Desert Mermaid
Conflicting thoughts on Gangs of Wasseypur
Kite and kin: notes on Patang
The strange fate of a passive man: Arvind Desai ki Ajeeb Dastan
A Canterbury Tale - a great spiritual film for the incurable nastik
Moral slipperiness in Shanghai
75 and still dancing: Make Way for Tomorrow
Loneliness of a long-distance baaghi: on Paan Singh Tomar
Shaitani Anand (or Return of Zombie Rajesh)
Goddess, prisoner: on Satyajit Ray's Devi
The artist, the ivory tower and the world - on Govind Nihalani's Party
Notes on A Separation
Andar ki baatein: inside references in movies
Every sperrrm is sacred - on Vicky Donor's Dr Chaddha
Kahaani and the dhokebaaz flashback
An anthology of cinematic "moments"
Putting the act in action: Black Friday, Sword of Doom
Coca Cola in film
Videokaaran: cinema and the underdog
Some thoughts on book-to-film adaptation
I am Cuba
Ghosts and relics in Sahib Bibi aur Ghulam
Hollywood's earliest adventures in screenwriting
Ode to Paulette Dubost
Teen Behenein
On Supremo, Ajooba and other pre-Ra.One superheroes
49th Parallel: propaganda with a touch of art
Masks and mirrors: Aks and Delhi 6
Shades of Ray: the restored Jalsaghar
The Amitabh Bachchan cameos
Sholay - notes on an establishing sequence
The wondrous meeting of Rajendra Kumar and Bertrand Russell
Dadasaheb Phalke as a silent-movie hero
Directors in unusual acting roles
Boy and wolf: Stanley ka Dabba
Up above the world so high...on title credits
Shor in the City
The banal and the beautiful: great scenes in average films
Howard Hawks' noir western, Red River
Idealism and self-deception in Satyakam
Of red roses and hanky-pankies: Rajesh Khanna, ladykiller
An 'essential moment' in The Spirit of the Beehive
Notes on Gulzar's Koshish
Anonymous in the naked city
The King's Speech and Black Swan: a double bill
A tribute to Bob Christo
Chaplin, City Lights and Sadma
On Bollywood's use of gaalis
The musical conquests of Goopy and Bagha
Fragmented women in Mean Streets and Contempt
A tribute to Dharmendra
The Social Network as a David Fincher film
Billy Wilder's Ace in the Hole
On film posters and artwork
Hell is other people: Bunuel's The Exterminating Angel
The cowardly Samurai - audience manipulation in Harakiri
How to stop worrying and lose your moustache
Martin Scorsese, movie buff
The merits of idle talk in Ozu's Good Morning
Triumph of the Will: the psychopath as God
3 Women: Robert Altman's dream film
Hrishikesh Mukherjee's Namak Haraam
Dogs in Teri Meherbaniyan and Mon Oncle
The distorting mirror in Cabaret
Thoughts on Udaan
Haxan: the rationalist as Satan
Andar ka shaitan: an essay on Raajneeti
Zombies and 'normal' people in Carnival of Souls
Memories of Master Mayur
The many wonders of Gumnaam
The scorching winds of change: Sathyu's Garam Hawa
We all go a little mad sometimes
The Yahoo! column: an introduction
Anup Kurian on his 'small' film
F W Murnau's Sadhu aur Shaitan
A conversation with Naseeruddin Shah
Bhanu Athaiya on dressing up a movie
Notes on Ishqiya
Izz aal well?
Tati's Play Time, and what a movie lets us see
Billy Wilder's Stalag 17
Jules Dassin's prison noir: Brute Force
Demons in the grassland: Shindo's Onibaba
Charles Laughton as Rembrandt
Franju's Blood of the Beasts
Two or three things about Godard's Week End
Reality and fantasy in Unfaithfully Yours
Fredric March and Inherit the Wind
Chintu-ji, and a Q&A with Ranjit Kapoor
Aghaat, and Nihalani's use of actors
The definitive Devil: Walter Huston
Notes on Sankat City
Sam Fuller's Pickup on South Street
Wildly uneven movies: Khamoshi
Future reloaded: the new Star Trek
Diploma films: Bonga, The Eight-Column Affair
Early Hitchcock: Murder! and Rich and Strange
Bollywood's Fourth Wall: Luck by Chance
Kubrick's The Killing
Oye Lucky! Lucky Oye!
God in the machine: Rab ne bana di Jodi
Ernst Lubitsch and Trouble in Paradise
The Lives of Others
Ugly aur Pagli
Merchant-Ivory's Bombay Talkie
Cinefan: Mumbai Cutting
Burqa psycho hunts screaming teens
Cinefan: Ramchand Pakistani
50 years of Vertigo
Revisiting The Seven Samurai
Persepolis on screen
Sarkar Raj: lights off
Notes on Bhoothnath
DVD review: A Streetcar Named Desire
No Direction Home / Bob Dylan
U, Me aur Ho-Hum
Race is on my mind
Pankaj Kapur in Dharm
Unreliable notes on Jodha Akbar
Dhan Dhana Dhan Nose
The Talk of the Town
The Golden Compass, and notes on fantasy
Phillum noir: Manorama Six Feet Under
Astaire and Rogers in Swing Time
OSO: so-so, but insulated against criticism
Anurag Kashyap's No Smoking and Tarsem Singh's The Cell
Notes on Johnny Gaddaar
The fire from Ram Gopal's loins
The Lion in Winter
Notes on Chak de India
My Father, My Lord
Cinefan: Driving to Zigzigland
Cinefan: Amol Palekar's Thang
Cinefan: Mizoguchi and the benshi
Closely Watched Trains
Provoked into a snarky post
Jugdment at Nuremberg
Ensemble kitsch: Nagin, Jaani Dushman, Kranti
Kate and Larry turn 100
Eklavya, the royal bored
Pushpak, then and now
Manmohan Desai's Parvarish
Nanook of the North
Sai Paranjpe's Katha
Goofiness meets menace: Fearless Vampire Killers
Shyam Benegal's Junoon
Anti-heroism in Paths of Glory
Vettaiyaadu Vilaiyaadu
Polanski's Macbeth
Jaan-e-Mann
Fiddler on the Roof
Thoughts on the Munnabhais
United 93
Don trailer, and the tunes that bind
The ants were screaming!
Revisiting Shyamalan's Unbreakable
Notes on KA(LA)NK
Yun Hota toh Kya Hota?
The Man Who Shot Liberty Valance
Cinefan diary: Jean-Claude Carriere
Dharam-Veer: the love that sings its name
For better, for verse: Fanaa
To Marilyn on her 80th
Michael Powell's Peeping Tom
The Passion of Joan of Arc
Asafoetida attack! The Mistress of Spices
Groucho Marxism: Duck Soup revisited
Trial and error: 12 Angry Men
Terrence Malick's The New World
Cronenberg's A History of Violence
Capote review
Kolya, and other films at the EU fest
Transamerica review
The Turning Brain
Notes on Crash
Dario Argento and Suspiria
Eraserhead, and thoughts on horror films
Deconstructing RGV: Company, Sarkar
Hail, Spartacus!
Bolly retro: Insaaf Kaun Karega
Herzog, Kinski: portraits in madness
Hitchcock's Strangers on a Train
Bachchanalia
Roger Manvell's Film: on screen acting
The Texas Chainsaw Massacre
Yojimbo, and the Mifune walk
Donald Richie lecture
Matrubhoomi review
Hotel Rwanda review
Bollywood: what's changed?
English titles for Hindi films
Revenge of the Sith
Robert Altman's MASH
Fellini's Rosebud: Asa Nisi Masa
Pink Floyd in Pompeii
Revisiting Deewar
The Seventh Seal
Virtual history
DePalma's way
R.I.P. Parveen Babi
Shakespeare on film
Life of Brian, amen
Robert Bloch, Lon Chaney, silent films...
Amu, and the 1984 riots
Terrence Malick, and Badlands
In praise of Naram Dharam
Once Upon a Time in the West: the Sholay connection
Night in tarnished armour
Ekta ki Mahabharata
Kahaani Hamaaray Mahabharat Ki: a preview
Episode 1: The Tattoo Menace
Squabbling sutradhaars
Ganesha to Vyasa: Go find yourself a human stenographer
More low comedy from the Dwapara Yuga
What big pecs you have, little princes!
Domesticity
Tips for a successful marriage
More notes from married life: water tanks, grinning electricians
Home fires burning
Matrimony in a time of cyberspace
The advent of Foxie
On Paa, progeria and parenting a dog
More baby photos
City notes
In praise of the Metro
'PVR Talkies'
An afternoon at the Golf Club
Bats in Sheila Dikshit's belfry
Delhi Story contd
Flyovers down under
Flyovers, and a shifting city
Google Earthing
Gurgaon as a Moebius Strip
On the Bus Rapid Transit Corridor
PVR memories, and Madhuban 'Fine Dining'
Saket vistas: the brand name
Saket vistas: the Metro crane
The Saket column for Time Out
Irregular ranting
More subtitle silliness: ten were negritos
A rant about film writing
Who will bell the Sheikh?
Halloween Kali and serial killer Ekta
Why meetings are evil
The magnifying glass and the soup
DVD subtitles
Embarrassment by SMS
Research findings we could use
A rant about sentient ATMs
New Year SMSes
On jaywalkers
Attending a north Indian wedding
Cutting Blueline buses down to size
Celeb answers I'd like to see
The Vodafone pug, and tips for phone usage
Bejewelled robots: thoughts on daily soaps
Categories of moronic moviegoers
Children on trains
The Crybaby Indian Passenger
Orkut, the killer wail
The righteous indigestion of travelling Indians
Celebrity age-fudging
Radio and the eagle
Improve interest levels in men's tennis
A Hitchcockian road rant
Paper is heavy
Pitfalls of freelancing
Movie-hall rant
Flirting with stupidity
Cinefan again: good things and bad
Cinefan day 1: a Siri Fort rant
No coverage: conversation with Airtel
Anti-PR rant: excessive politeness
The jabberwock slays Switzerland
Internet monitoring
Word pukers
Eat shoots and leaves
DVDs, VCDs: not the same!
What, no baby?
Code voracity
When we weren't connected
Blogroll
A Fan Apart
Absolute Lee
Akhond of Swat: Nilanjana S Roy
Amardeep Singh
Amitava Kumar
Antiblurbs: Sanjay Sipahimalani
Baradwaj Rangan
Beth Loves Bollywood
Bhiwani Junction: Shamya
Calcutta Chromosome
Chhota Hazri: Trisha Gupta
Death Ends Fun: Dilip D'Souza
DelhiBelly: Jason Overdorf
Dream Ink
Dusted Off: Madhulika Liddle
Film Impressions: Deepa Deosthalee
Gradwolf
Great Bong
India - Food & Travel Guide
India Uncut: Amit Varma
Jim Emerson's Scanners
Known Turf: Annie Zaidi
Marginalien: Manjula Padmanabhan
Mihir Pandya
Mike Enright
Paresh Palicha
Parmanu
Practically Marzipan: Aishwarya
PreeOccupied
President Blink-Blink: Supriya Nair
Samanth Subramanian
Scribbles and Stories
South Asia Daily: Mayank Chhaya
Stet: Mitali Saran
The Compulsive Confessor: eM
The Long Walk Home: Manreet Sodhi Someshwar
The Middle Stage: Chandrahas Choudhury
The Seventh Art
The Spaniard in the Works: Space Bar
Vantage Point: Gaurav Sabnis
Within/Without: Neha Viswanathan
Zigzackly: Peter Griffin
Search this blog
Loading...
Some popular posts
In defence of Vikas Bahl's delightfully zany
Shaandaar
[ Did this review for Mint Lounge ]
It may be an understatement to say that Vikas Bahl’s madcap new film Shaandaar
will confound or anno...
The muddy doors of perception – thoughts on the Aarushi Talwar and Jeff MacDonald cases
[ A shorter version of this piece appeared on The Daily O ]
Savage crimes of passion lie beyond the pale of regular human experience – ea...
Jazbaa : Irrfan kicks ass...and that's about it
[ And the Irrfan Khan theme for the week continues. Wrote this piece for The Daily O ] There were two moments in Sanjay Gupta’s Jazbaa
(th...
No
tamasha
– the return of Nikhil Bhagat
[ My latest Mint Lounge column ] The Oscar-winning actress Luise Rainer, who died last year at age 104, holds what could be a record for lo...
Thoughts on
Talvar : Holmes in the heart of darkness
[ Did a version of this piece for my Mint Lounge column ] In an early scene in Meghna Gulzar’s Talvar , CDI officer Ashwin (Irrfan Khan) jo...
How to reply to New Year SMSes
The most exciting thing about the changeover from December 31 to January 1 is the flow of SMSes that accompanies it. Among the many text mes...
Reviewing the reviewer: a part-response to Khalid Mohamed's piece
There have been some nice, flattering reviews of the Hrishikesh Mukherjee book recently, such as the ones by Jerry Pinto
in The Indian ...
Meeting Nikhil Bhagat: a former actor remembers his brush with fame
[ Did a version of this piece for the March issue of The Caravan ] On an unusually chilly Kolkata evening this January, at the inauguration...
Guddi
screening at India Habitat Centre
If you’re a movie buff and in Delhi on October 31, please mark your calendars. Penguin India is organising a screening of Hrishikesh Mukher...
Reviews and responses 1: a "tough" and "discomfiting" book
Here’s a nice review
- by Mayank Shekhar - of the Hrishikesh Mukherjee book. I appreciate this bit:
“This is a tougher book to write [t...
Selected posts by label
Aamir Khan
(7)
adaptations
(14)
Ajooba
(3)
Akira Kurosawa
(6)
Alan Moore
(5)
Alfred Hitchcock
(26)
Amit Chaudhuri
(5)
Amitabh Bachchan
(25)
Amitav Ghosh
(3)
Amitava Kumar
(3)
And above all - Jeetendra!!
(8)
animals
(38)
Anita Desai
(3)
Anita Nair
(3)
Anurag Kashyap
(11)
Apu Trilogy
(3)
Arthur C Clarke
(5)
Arun Shourie
(1)
Ashok Kumar
(5)
Atheism
(11)
Balraj Sahni
(5)
Bengali cinema
(7)
Billy Wilder
(8)
Bimal Roy
(6)
blogging and journalism
(6)
blurbs
(3)
books - fiction
(135)
books - nonfiction
(85)
Cary Grant
(4)
cats
(7)
Chaplin
(6)
Charles Darwin
(5)
Charles Laughton
(4)
Chetan Bhagat
(7)
childhood
(13)
Cinemas of India
(4)
class and privilege
(18)
comedy
(33)
comics
(19)
Delhi
(11)
Dev Anand
(11)
Dharmendra
(11)
Dibakar Banerjee
(11)
Dilip Kumar
(5)
Disco Dancer
(3)
dogs
(18)
Draupadi
(8)
Eddie Campbell
(3)
Ekta Kapoor ki Mahabharat
(8)
Ernst Lubitsch
(4)
evil cellphones
(5)
fantasy
(22)
Farooque Shaikh
(7)
film editing
(3)
film noir
(9)
food
(19)
Foxie
(18)
Frankenstein
(5)
funny posts (supposedly)
(50)
gender issues
(26)
Godard
(3)
Goopy Gyne Bagha Byne
(2)
Govind Nihalani
(5)
Graham Greene
(4)
Groucho Marx
(6)
Gulzar
(5)
Hannibal Lecter
(3)
Hari Kunzru
(5)
Harlan Ellison
(2)
Helen
(5)
Herman Melville
(3)
Hollywood classics
(38)
horror
(25)
Howard Hawks
(2)
Hrishikesh Mukherjee
(10)
Indian cinema
(151)
Indian English writing
(72)
Ingmar Bergman
(6)
Ira Levin
(4)
Irrfan Khan
(5)
Isaac Asimov
(4)
Jaani Dushman
(4)
Jaipur Literature Festival
(16)
James Stewart
(4)
Japanese cinema
(10)
Jerry Pinto
(4)
Jim Thompson
(1)
John Wayne
(5)
Kahaani
(3)
Kamal Haasan
(4)
Karna
(9)
Katharine Hepburn
(4)
Kazuo Ishiguro
(6)
Kirk Douglas
(4)
Kishore Kumar
(7)
language
(17)
Laurence Olivier
(8)
love stories
(28)
Luck by Chance
(4)
maa ka doodh
(1)
Madhubala
(2)
Mahabharat
(36)
Mani Ratnam
(4)
Manjula Padmanabhan
(9)
Manoj Kumar!!!
(6)
Marilyn Monroe
(4)
Marjane Satrapi
(4)
Martin Scorsese
(4)
Meena Kumari
(6)
Michael Powell
(3)
Milos Forman
(1)
Mira Nair
(7)
Montgomery Clift
(2)
Nargis
(7)
Naseeruddin Shah
(18)
Nawazuddin Siddiqui
(9)
New Hindi cinema
(88)
Nilanjana S Roy
(3)
Nirupa Roy
(6)
noir writing
(7)
Noses
(2)
Of Mothers and Others
(2)
Old Hindi films
(83)
Om Puri
(7)
on reviewing and criticism
(9)
Orhan Pamuk
(6)
paid sex
(3)
Pakistani writing
(11)
parenthood
(13)
Parveen Babi
(4)
Pather Panchali
(2)
Patricia Highsmith
(4)
Pauline Kael
(6)
Popcorn Essayists
(5)
popular science
(9)
Pratima Devi
(4)
propaganda
(4)
Psycho
(9)
pups
(3)
Quentin Tarantino
(5)
Rafael Nadal
(20)
Raj Kapoor
(7)
Rajorshi Chakraborti
(8)
Rani Mukherji
(5)
Ravi Baswani
(3)
Richard Dawkins
(7)
RK Narayan
(5)
robots
(9)
Roger Ebert
(8)
Rupert Everett
(1)
Ruskin Bond
(6)
Saeed Mirza
(4)
Saket
(15)
Salman Rushdie
(6)
Samit Basu
(7)
Samurai
(9)
Sandy
(2)
Sanjeev Kumar
(9)
satire
(14)
Satyajit Ray
(10)
science fiction
(11)
serial killers
(8)
sexuality
(13)
Shaitani Rajesh Khanna
(4)
Shehan Karunatilaka
(2)
Sholay
(9)
Shyam Benegal
(10)
snakes and naags
(5)
song sequences
(12)
Sonia Faleiro
(4)
Spencer Tracy
(3)
Srishti books
(3)
Star Plus Mahabharat
(8)
Stephen King
(4)
Steven Pinker
(4)
Suniti Namjoshi
(2)
Susanna's Seven Husbands
(1)
technology
(6)
tennis
(31)
Thomas Harris
(3)
Tolkien
(6)
Toshiro Mifune
(2)
translations
(24)
tributes
(9)
vampires
(10)
Vicky Donor
(4)
Victor Erice
(1)
Vidya Balan
(7)
Vikram Chandra
(4)
Vishal Bhardwaj
(9)
Waheeda Rehman
(8)
Werner Herzog
(2)
Woody Allen
(4)
world cinema
(42)
Yasujiro Ozu
(4)
Zac O'Yeah
(2)
zombies
(6)
Books - selected posts
Literary time travellers
Found in translation
Pop goes the epic - on new-age retellings of the Mahabharata and Ramayana
Vikram Chandra on mixed rasa in ancient literature and popular cinema
Love and longing in Prague - on Nirmal Verma's वे दिन
On Jaspal Singh's Helium, fiction as lecture, and the 1984 riots
Colm Tóibín's The Testament of Mary
Zombies in the mirror - exhibitionism and alienation in World War Z
Vinod Mehta on Meena Kumari
Pandavas in the sky with diamonds: on Sandipan Deb's underworld Mahabharata
Legends of Halahala - silent pictures from another world
Jayant Kripalani's New Market Tales
Keigo Higashino's creepy new mystery
Colours of funny - a column on literary satires
On Suniti Namjoshi's The Fabulous Feminist
A bodhi-catva guide to life
Dead writers' society
Annie Zaidi's Love Stories #1 to 14
Tinkle tinkle, little book-store
The true-crime chronicles
Blonde on blonde: a biography of the many Marilyn Monroes
Cross-dressing and murder in Bangalore
Adventures of an intrepid film critic
Two novels about violence
"I'm a cartoonist who can't draw" - a conversation with Manu Joseph
Kalpish Ratna's Once Upon a Hill
Dissecting the universe - on popular-science books
Pussy riot: on Nilanjana S Roy's The Wildings
Mad maane mother: Jerry Pinto's Em and the Big Hoom
Lovers and other aliens in I am an Executioner
Highway 39: Journeys Through a Fractured Land
Cyrus Mistry's Chronicle of a Corpse Bearer
Visual storytelling in The Obliterary Journal
How to Fight Islamist Terror from the Missionary Position
Out of the well and into the ocean: a superficial book on Aamir Khan
Dissecting the universe: popular-science books
Annawadi "by heart" - on Katherine Boo and Behind the Beautiful Forevers
Stupid Japanese guy meets terrifying Indian city
Squirrel trap: on writing and letting go
An essay on the Indian comics industry
Bollywood's Top 20 - a collection of oddly impersonal profiles
Temple Grandin's Animals in Translation
Literary heroes, fathers and ghosts: Pico Iyer on Graham Greene
Laughing zombies, dead mothers...notes on Granta Horror
A Gardener in the Wasteland
11.22.63 - Stephen King goes time-travelling
Notes from the Times of India Literary Carnival
A boy and a ship: Ondaatje's The Cat's Table
Chronicle of a solitary man: Teju Cole's Open City
Bollywood: the Greatest Show on Earth
The dreary song of Savio de Souza
Ambedkar and caste, in Gond art
Thoughts on being prolific (and Asimov's middling mysteries)
A. Revathi's A Hijra Life Story
The Best of Quest
Murder in collaboration
R K Narayan on a movie set
Rafael Nadal's mid-career memoir
Arun Shourie on the suffering of innocents in a godless world
Deathless in wartime: The Tiger's Wife
Zahreelay teer: Ibn-e Safi in translation
Damon Runyon's Broadway stories
A Kiss Before Dying: complexities of book-to-film adaptation
Urmilla Deshpande's carnal prose
Epic fictions: the Rashomon-like world of the Mahabharata
Susanna's Seven Husbands: short story, novella, script
Snippets: kidnapped piglets, rescued strays
No newts are good news: on Karel Čapek’s great satire
Speaking for the tribes: Jamil Ahmad's The Wandering Falcon
The highest truth, the half-known life: biography of an ocean
The absent spinner: cricket and life in Shehan Karunatilaka's Chinaman
Sad detective in tandoori marinade: Zac O'Yeah's Scandinavistan
Noir's arc: notes on an excellent anthology
In Jaipur with Biharis, Swedes and other 'chuts'
Archdeacons and earthworms: Charles Darwin, the good novelist
Makers of modern India: a conversation with Ramachandra Guha
Kitty lit: Pallavi Aiyar's Chinese Whiskers
Muscular fish, invisible gorillas and an anti-establishment Bengali writer
Thoughts on narrative non-fiction
Noah's improbable Ark, why we don't talk, monster boyfriends and thugs
Chollychaplum and others in Garson Kanin's Hollywood
Aubrey Menen and the witches of Limbo
Let the Great World Spin
The journey of Saramago's elephant
Sudhir Kakar's The Crimson Throne
Balloonists: adrift but tied to the world
On Zohra Segal's Close-Up
Eggs and sperms and misunderstood worms
Mockingbird revisited
Blaft's Tamil pulp fiction
Of men and microbes: Manu Joseph's Serious Men
Notes from the Bhutan literature festival
A chat with Rahul Mehta
Upamanyu Chatterjee's morose humour
Roddy Doyle Q&A
Split identities in The Temple-goers
Syed Muhammad Ashraf's The Beast
Continents revisited: meeting Ved Mehta
In Bhimsen's voice: M T Vasudevan Nair and Prem Panicker
Dhruba Hazarika's Luck
Millennium 3: The Girl who Kicked the Hornets' Nest
The electrocutioner's tale
There was a crooked house...
Coetzee's Summertime
GOB-smacked: Like a Diamond in the Sky
The Lion in springtime: Hilary Mantel's Wolf Hall
The Suspicions of Mr Whicher
Notes from Germany: children's-book illustrators, etc
On Ishiguro's Nocturnes
John Wyndham's The Day of the Triffids
Blaft's Tamil folk-tales
Chris Cleave and Little Bee
Aatish Taseer on Islam's 'enclosed world'
Notes from Jaipur: Diaspora Lite
Notes from Jaipur: Chetan Bhagat
A chat with Daniyal Mueenuddin
Paging Pakistan
Slumdog leather-hearts in Junot Diaz's Drown
Kamila Shamsie's Burnt Shadows
Q&A with Vandana Singh
Firdaus Kanga's Trying to Grow
The Devil and Annie Proulx
Gond art at Bookaroo
Manjula Padmanabhan and Escape
Ranjit Lal on birds and beasts
Alice Albinia and Empires of the Indus
Climbing Mount Improbable with Richard Dawkins
A Case of Exploding Mangoes
A meeting with Manju Kapur
'Righteous murder': The Six Suspects
Opium, giant whales and khidmatgars: Amitav Ghosh interview
To Have and Have Not: The White Tiger
Language in Sea of Poppies
Roberto Rossellini in India
John Hood on Ray's films
The Adventures of Amir Hamza
Peter Robinson and Inspector Banks
The Palace of Illusions
Jhumpa Lahiri's Unaccustomed Earth
The Pregnant King
Amruta Patil and Kari: Q&A
Miniatures in a mural: Saeed Mirza's Ammi
Anjum Hasan and Lunatic in my Head
Manil Suri's The Age of Shiva
Philip Roth's Exit Ghost
Ira Levin and The Boys from Brazil
Anita Desai: notes and a conversation
Koji Suzuki's Ring series, and Japanese fiction
On the road in the USSR
Irawati Karve's Yuganta
David Leavitt's The Indian Clerk
Dev Anand, Romancing with Life
Patricia Highsmith's short stories
My Revolutions / Hari Kunzru interview
Salmon in the Yemen
M G Vassanji and The Assassin's Song
Mukul Kesavan's Men in White
Craig Thompson's Blankets
A conversation with Mohsin Hamid
A Thousand Splendid Suns
Lunch with Amitava Kumar
Suite Francaise
A Big B in Jessica's bonnet
Sudhir Kakar's The Indians
The Peacock Throne
Paul Auster's invisible narrators
Hannibal Rising
Osamu Tezuka's Buddha series
The end of pretension in publishing?
Fireproof, and Raj Kamal Jha interview
Orhan Pamuk's The New Life
Moonis Ijlal's book covers
Small rebellions: Stories by Bama
In Spite of the Gods: Ed Luce on India
The Third World War
No Onions Nor Garlic
A conversation with Vikram Chandra
Someone Comes to Town, Someone Leaves Town
The Women in Cages: Vilas Sarang's short stories
Alan Moore's Watchmen
Nyagrodha, the tree of stories
Of khotas, rudeboys and ponceys: Londonstani
The Byomkesh Bakshi mysteries
What's a hen do: Brideless in Wembley
The child's-eye view: Black Swan Green
Manju Kapur's Home truths
Amartya Sen on identity and choice
Quick notes from Kitab fest
Jerry Pinto's Helen
A conversation with Rajorshi Chakraborti
Killing sacred cows: Kiran Nagarkar and God's Little Soldier
Or the Day Seizes You
Thomas Harris, monster-maker
Upamanyu Chatterjee's Weight Loss
Kiran Desai interview
It's Only a Movie: Charlotte Chandler on Hitchcock
Other Hitchcock books: Robin Wood, Truffaut
Myth series: The Penelopiad, Weight
Karen Armstrong on myth-making
Roberto Calasso and the frig vedas
The Manticore's Secret
The Kapoors: on Bollywood's First Family
Tigers in Red Weather
Bapsi Sidhwa and a Lahore anthology
Bougainvillea House review
Julian Barnes' Arthur & George
The stench of second-hands
On Beauty review
Sikandar Chowk Park review
We Need to Talk About Kevin
League of Extraordinary Gentlemen Vol 2
Hari Kunzru's Noise
Satyajit Ray's Speaking of Films
Capsule reading: pocket books
Amartya Sen's The Argumentative Indian
Revisiting the vampyr: The Historian
Marjane Satrapi's Embroideries
Pamuk's Istanbul: Portrait of a writer and his city
Mike Marqusee: Obviously a Believer
Murakami: deromanticising the outsider
The charm of Big Books
David Maine's The Flood
Siddhartha Deb, and a new heart of darkness
S J Perelman, and Motilal Nehru's laundry
Pundits From Pakistan
Kunzang Choden interview
Well read
Small Island
The Hungry Tide
Kitty litterateurs
Alex Garland's The Coma: dream-life, waking-life
Orhan Pamuk's Snow, and Kafka is funny!
Stories without borders: Rana Dasgupta interview
Sunday interview with Mihir Bose
Ved Mehta's The Red Letters
Meeting Kate Grenville and Tim Winton
Ranji, Maharajah of Connemara
Philip Roth and The Plot Against America
David Mitchell's Cloud Atlas
Ishiguro and The Unconsoled
The future of Englishes
Damon Galgut
Persepolis and Maus
Other posts
Private luxury: doing your own thing
Tales from the crematorium
IPL, tennis, narrow domestic walls
Sri Lanka photos: elephants
New ways of looking at the world
More Bombay notes (emphasis: food)
Yoga in Rishikesh
Diary writing, and memories of 1990
Notes on the Australian Open
The best of Manoj Kumar
Meeting Ebrahim Alkazi
The world's biggest cruise ship: photos, notes
Axl Rose and the Pet Shop Boys
Notes from Bombay
Astonishing births in the Mahabharata
'The Madrakas don't share their vinegar'
Notes from Rishikesh and Ananda
Our times, their times
Rediscovering He-Man
Vignettes from an NRI wedding
God's little reviewers
The divorced woman as easy prey
Porn and Pasolini: the Palika Bazaar trail
Food favourites
Moving in circles
Spellwreck
Netizen's lament
New Yorker update, and more on reviewing
Jabberwock turns one
Writer's voice
A Basel memory
This gun for hire: I'm freelancing
The Comments debate
The Engelbert concert
Song tag
Journalism vs writing
My trip to monasteryland
Old friends
The one where they all turn 30
Poe in the barbershop
The chair as masseuse
My Diwali blog
A room from the past
Remembering Sandy
A roach riposte
On reviewing
Ye olde style
Fan fall-oing
Surviving the aftermath of a car crash
Watermark template. Powered by
Blogger .