Home Film School: Camera Moves & Effects
skip to main
|
skip to sidebar
Home Film School
www.HomeFilmSchool.com
Camera Moves & Effects
Exercise great care whenever moving the camera within a shot. Avoid jerky movements unless you desire them for effect. DEEP FOCUS is used to keep all objects in both the foreground and background in focus at the same time. This is most easily accomplished using a wide lens and/or a closed aperture (high number t-stop setting) in order to gain the deep depth of field desired. SHALLOW FOCUS is used to isolate a subject from the background and/or foreground. This is most easily accomplished with a narrow lens and/or an open aperture (low number t-stop setting) in order to gain the shallow depth of field desired. SPLIT FOCUS - to focus on a point between two subjects. FOCUS PULL (FOLLOW FOCUS) - This simply refers to adjusting the focal point on the lens so as to keep subjects sharp as they move about the frame, closer or farther from the camera, or as the camera itself moves. A assistant cameraman, not the operator, usually pulls focus. RACKING FOCUS is an effect that changes the selective focal point within the frame from one plane to another within a shot (from subject A in the foreground to subject B in the background), thus changing the point of the audience's attention. FOCUS IN / OUT - This is a TRANSITION SHOT where at the beginning of the shot the subject slowly comes into focus; or at the end of a shot the subject slowly goes out of focus. T-STOP PULL - This refers to changing the actual t-stop on a lens as the camera moves into a different lighting situation within a single shot. Say you are tracking your subject as she walks out of her house and into her front yard where the sun is shinning. In this situation you would have to close down the t-stop as you moved into the much brighter outdoors. This can be a very difficult move, as you will have to take accurate light readings with your incident meter. The change in light intensity may be a sudden change, or a gradual one depending on the situation. TILT UP / DOWN - The camera is stationary, but moves on its axis up or down. PAN LEFT / RIGHT (to see all of Panoramic view) - The camera is stationary, but pivots on its axis, moving the camera left or right (always leading, never chasing the actor). SWISH PAN, sometimes called a WHIP PAN, is a very fast pan that causes the image on the screen to blur and is often used as a TRANSITION SHOT from one shot or sequence to another. TRACKING (DOLLYING) - To move the camera smoothly in a preset motion using a dolly on a straight or curved track, or on wheels alone. A professional dolly can be used, as can a pickup truck, a typical wheelchair, skateboard, or any other device that can be rigged. A dolly shot usually moves forward or backward (PUSH IN / PULL OUT / DOLLY IN / OUT); or moves along side the action as a horizontally moving shot. Tracking shots can also be done HANDHELD, but will not be as smooth. They can also be done with a STEADICAM. A slow tracking shot, often called a CREEP, is done to build tension within the shot. HANDHELD - A WALKING HANDHELD SHOT can be effective, but can also make the audience nauseous. A handheld is most effective to show nervous tension, hastiness, or anxiety when it is a STATIC HANDHELD SHOT, meaning the operator does not move, but stands in place. The frame will move slightly but naturally as a person naturally moves while standing. A static handheld shot is far more subjective than a static shot on a tripod. STEADICAM - a device created in the 1970s that straps the camera on a spring harness to the operator's body, allowing him a free range of motion on uneven terrain, while filming a smooth and flowing shot. ZOOM IN / OUT - Using a zoom lens - and not moving the camera - to change the magnification of the subject within the frame. This move is now considered a faux pas by many cinematographers, but can still be found in some contemporary films. VERTIGO SHOT - Two separate effects: dolly in while zooming out, or dolly out while zooming in. The former will cause the background to move in behind the subject, while the latter will cause the background to spread out and nearly disappear. The subject will appear to remain relatively the same distance from the camera. This move is highly effective as an intense reaction shot.
It was first used by Alfred Hitchcock in the 1958 film
Vertigo , and was later made famous in Steven Spielberg's
Jaws . Want to learn more? Order "THE OLD SCHOOL FILM SCHOOL" today! Copyright © 2004 by
HomeFilmSchool.com Next Lesson:
Lighting The Set
Newer Post
Older Post
Home
You Can Now Read 'THE FILM DIRECTOR'S GUIDE TO PRINCIPAL PHOTOGRAPHY' on Amazon Kindle
Preview:
Introduction to Directing Film
Elements of the Great Script
Performance Direction
The Production Process
The Shooting Schedule
Understanding Cinematography
Film Stocks & Light
The Film Camera
Properties of Lenses
Composition
Standard Shots & Angles
Camera Moves & Effects
Lighting the Set
Filters & Gels
Post Production
Bibliography
Noteworthy
*The End of a Great Era: Steven Paul Jobs, 1955-2011
How To Be A Faster Writer
5 Keys to Writing a Summer Blockbuster
Q & A with screenwriting instructor Syd Field
How to write a screenplay: a format guide
Writing the Second Act
Writing (Not Overwriting) Description
Creating Your Hero: Top Ten Rules
Wow your pitch like a pro
Writing Bad-to-the-bone Characters
Why Screenplays Should be Written from a SUBJECTIVE POINT-OF-VIEW
The scenes every film fan should see
How To Break In If You’re NOT in L.A.
Copyright & Fair Use on the Internet
Virtual Dolly & Crane
How to Write an Unforgettable Scene
Danny Boyle's Golden Rules
Script Magazine interview w/ writer Aaron Sorkin
Script Secrets Assignment: Character in Conflict
Character Emotion Makes the Plot
Write your Screenplay in 10 Minutes a Day
How to Make a Steadicam Flying Camera Support
Screenwriting for Hollywood (Reason.tv)
Approaching Character: The Circle of Being
Robert Rodriguez : Film Is Dead
Spielberg on becoming a film director
When Drama Becomes Propaganda: Why is so much political art so awful?
How to Write a Play (video)
An Introduction to Publishing Your Work
Making Digital Video Look Like Film
Lighting Techniques (video)
High-End Blocking and Staging
What Makes Screenplay Dialogue Great?
Screenwriter Jose Rivera: Tricks of the Trade
How to Make a Jib Arm and Camera Dolly
The 10 Commandments of Fiction Writing
Acting and Filmmaking for Dummies
Landing a Hollywood Script Agent
Secrets of Genre
Evolution/Revolution by Syd Field
'Monsters' feature film made for only $15,000
How to Write a Screenplay: A Guide to Screenwriting
Movie Reality vs. "Real" Reality
The 101 Greatest Screenplays according to the Writers Guild of America
How to Write in 700 Easy Lessons: the Case Against Writing Manuals
For Photographers: Web Resources and Tutorials
Getting Started in Acting
Writing from the Unconscious: Trying to catch the wind
Writing the Horror Movie
Ask the Expert ... Tips for Writing a TV Spec
Comedy Guru Chris Fenton gives secrets to what he looks for in a script
The Plot Climax and the Story Climax
Boost Your Creativity: 7 Unusual Psychological Techniques
Creating Art is All About Accidents Waiting to Happen
Mario Moreno and Anthony Grieco, authors of The Pocket Screenwriting Guide (video)
The changing landscape of independent filmmaking
Revisiting the Topic of Indie Movies and Youth
Q & A with UCLA Screenwriting Chairman Richard Walter
The I-List: 25 Companies Every Indie Needs to Know
Film Rules: Why 10 of the world’s top cinematographers have still not bought into the digital revolution
15 Must-Have Freeware Programs for Filmmakers
21 Mac Shareware Applications for Filmmakers
Is Film School Right for You?
The Right Camera for Film Transfer
How to give video a film look using 24p
Creativity is King in the World of Independent Film Production
Filmmaking Advice from Filmmakers
Making Your Video Look More Like Film
David Koepp on what every writer should know
Visual Preparation for the Shoot
$14 Steadycam: "The Poor Man's Steadicam"
Tools and Utilities for Filmmakers
Shooting Day-for-Night Scenes
Robert McKee on Screenwriting
Pro Camcorder Buyer's Guide 2010
Uploading Video to the Web
What are the Greatest Films of All Time?
8 Rewrite Notes For Any Comedy Script
Ten Simple Keys to Plot Structure
Web Film School by Dov Simens
Video Lighting Buyer's Guide 2009
Robert Rodriguez : Film Is Dead
Are you learning something?
Then support this site!
Please consider making a donation in any amount.
Contact via
email@HomeFilmSchool.com
Resources
Hollywood Film Institute
Film Stop
Indy Mogul: Do It Yourself Filmmaking
HomeFilmSchoolStudent.com
Internet Movie Database
Filmmaker.com
SmartHollywood.com
Mandy's Film & TV Production Directory
IndyCine.com
Action-Cut-Print! - Filmmaking Resources
MovieMaker Magazine
Filmmaker Magazine
Premiere Magazine
Academy of Motion Picture Arts & Sciences
American Film Institute
Hollywood Film Institute
Maine Media Workshops
Directors Guild of America
The Director's Template
Writer's Digest
Michael Hauge's Screenplay Mastery (Article Index)
John Truby's Writers Studio
ScreenwritingU
Screenwriter's Utopia
Simply Scripts
Screenplays For You
Drew's Script-O-Rama
Writers Guild of America
ScriptChat
Cinematography.com
Cinematographer.com
American Society of Cinematographers
Kodak Motion Picture Film
Fuji Motion Picture Film
Panavision Cameras & Equipment
Arri Cameras & Equipment
Aaton Cameras & Equipment
FilmSite.org
Followers