The Films of John & James Whitney
Archive
Movie
Live Music Show
Documentaries
Collections
The Films Of...
Art
All Shows
Magazine
About
The Films of John & James Whitney
American animator, composer and inventor, widely considered to be one of the fathers of computer animation.
Curated by
Jason Forrest
Total Runtime: 0:40:46
The Films of ... art computers design film graphic design magic making of photography technology vintage computer graphics
Life
Whitney was born in
Pasadena ,
California
and attended
Pomona College .
His first works in film were 8 mm movies of a lunar eclipse which he
made using a home-made telescope. In 1937-38 he spent a year in Paris,
studying
twelve-tone
composition under
Rene Leibowitz . In 1939 he returned to America and began to collaborate with his brother
James
on a series of abstract films. Their work,
Five Film Exercises
(1940-45) was awarded a prize for sound at the First International Experimental Film Competition in
Belgium
in 1949. In 1948 he was awarded a
Guggenheim Fellowship .
During the 1950s Whitney used his mechanical animation techniques to
create sequences for television programs and commercials. In 1952 he
directed engineering films on
guided missile
projects. One of his most famous works from this period was the animated
title sequence
from
Alfred Hitchcock 's 1958 film
Vertigo , which he collaborated on with the graphic designer
Saul Bass .
In 1960, he founded Motion Graphics Incorporated, which used a
mechanical analogue computer of his own invention to create motion
picture and television title sequences and commercials. The following
year, he assembled a record of the visual effects he had perfected using
his device, titled simply
Catalog . In 1966,
IBM
awarded John Whitney, Sr. its first artist-in-residence position.
By the 1970s, Whitney had abandoned his analogue computer in favour
of faster, digital processes. The pinnacle of his digital films is his
1975 work
Arabesque , characterized by
psychedelic ,
blooming colour-forms. His work during the 1980s and 1990s, benefited
from faster computers and his invention of an audio-visual composition
program called the Whitney-Reed RDTD (Radius-Differential Theta
Differential). Works from this period such as
Moondrum
(1989 - 1995) used self-composed music and often explored mystical or
Native-American
themes.
All of John Whitney's sons (Michael, Mark and John Jr.) are also film-makers.
The Whitney film collection is housed at the
Academy Film Archive
at the
Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences ,
where its preservation and restoration are ongoing. Several of the
films (plus some of James Whitney's), were preserved by Center for
Visual Music in Los Angeles; HD transfers from their preservation have
been seen in major museum exhibitions including Visual Music at MOCA and
The Hirshhorn Museum (2005), Sons et Lumieres at Centre Pompidou
(2004-05), The Third Mind at The Guggenheim Museum, and other shows.
Whitney's mechanical analogue computer
The analogue computer Whitney used to create his most famous
animations was built in the late 1950s by converting the mechanism of a
World War II
M-5 Antiaircraft Gun Director. [ 1 ]
Later, Whitney would augment the mechanism with an M-7 mechanism, creating a twelve-foot-high machine. [ 2 ]
Design templates were placed on three different layers of rotating
tables and photographed by multiple-axis rotating cameras. Color was
added during optical printing. Whitney's son, John, Jr., described the
mechanism in 1970:
“
I don't know how many
simultaneous motions can be happening at once. There must be at least
five ways just to operate the shutter. The input shaft on the camera
rotates at 180 rpm, which results in a photographing speed of 8 frame/s.
That cycle time is constant, not variable, but we never shoot that
fast. It takes about nine seconds to make one revolution. During this
nine-second cycle the tables are spinning on their own axes while
simultaneously revolving around another axis while moving horizontally
across the range of the camera, which may itself be turning or zooming
up and down. During this operation we can have the shutter open all the
time, or just at the end for a second or two, or at the beginning, or
for half of the time if we want to do
slit-scanning [ 3 ]
The Films of John & James Whitney
◀
PREV NEXT
▶
THIS VIDEO:
MORE INFO ABOUT THIS SHOW »
Our Curators Recommend:
Buckminster Fuller - Everything I Know - 26 During the last two weeks of January 1975 Buckminster Fuller gave an extraordinary series of lectures concerning his entire life's work.
The Films of Jan Svankmajer 2 The works of master Czech animator Jan Svankmajer, 1968-1982
The Films of Hans Richter A selection of short films by the highly influential and innovative avant-garde filmmaker Hans Richter
The Films of Maya Deren an American avant-garde filmmaker and film theorist of the 1940s and 1950s. Deren was also a choreographer, dancer, poet, writer and photographer.
Network Awesome Originals:
Cremaster Week All 5 of Matthew Barney's groundbreaking Cremaster Cycle films, including supplemental documentaries, interviews and curated video.
Women Of Rock 400+ videos dedicated to the Pioneers of Rock!
Women In Prison Weekend DEPRAVED! INCORRIGIBLE! SEE WHAT HAPPENS BEHIND BARS!
Hungarian Day! Take a trip to Hungary and discover some of its treasures!
Previously This Week:
Sun, Nov 1
The Twilight Zone - Perchance to Dream
Doc - Power of Dreams - Tibetan Buddhist dreaming
Art - Melodrama Sacramentral (Jodorowsky et al, 1965)
Doc - Park Avenue: Money, Power and the American dream
Movie - Dreams That Money Can Buy (1947)
Movie - Russian Ark
(2002)
Sat, Oct 31
Groovie Ghoulies - Witches Brew (1970)
Collection - Halloween Commercials
Tales from the Crypt - Dead Wait (Tobe Hooper, 1991)
Doc - Ed Gein, the Real Leatherface
Movie - Night of the Living Dead (George A. Romero, 1968)
Movie - Dawn of the Dead (George Romero, 1978)
Fri, Oct 30
Live Music Show - Cibo Matto
Art - Jumping (Osamu Tezuka, 1984)
Sampling in 1988
Doc -
Tezuka Osamu: Sosaku no Himitsu
Art - Tales of a Street Corner (Osamu Tezuka, 1962)
Movie - Space Firebird 2772
Thu, Oct 29
Live Music Show - Nirvana, Chicago, 1989
Doc - Hype! (1996)
Movie - Teaserama (Irving Klaw, 1955)
Quentin Tarantino and Robert Rodriguez talk "Grindhouse"
Movie - High School Hellcats (1958)
Movie - World On A Wire (RW Fassbinder, 1973)
Wed, Oct 28
Live Music Show - Miles Davis (Vienna, 1973)
Doc - Miles Electric: A Different Kind of Blue
Collection - Stairway to Stardom
Art - J'ai faim, j'ai froid (Chantal Akerman, 1984)
Music With Roots in the Aether: Robert Ashley
Movie - The Phantom of Liberty (Luis Buñuel, 1974)
Tue, Oct 27
Behind the scenes of the Evil Dead movies
Talk Show - Sam Raimi
Within the Woods by Sam Raimi (1978)
Talk Show - Bruce Campbell Lecture
Bollywood Evil Dead (2008)
Movie - The Evil Dead (Sam Raimi, 1981)
Our video curators filter videos into feature-length shows.
Each day we broadcast 6 new shows curated by theme.
All shows are in the archive. Watch ‘em any time.
Network Awesome is a new kind of online TV experience. We mine YouTube to present the best videos that are
interesting, over-looked or just plain cool.
FOLLOW US ON FACEBOOK
Like a TV guide you actually like!
FOLLOW US ON TUMBLR
Tons of .gifs and new ones every day.
FOLLOW US ON TWITTER
Share your favorite shows with the world!
Magazine
About
Advertise
Contact
Design: Matt Gentile, Martin Müller, and Jason Forrest
Code: Greg Sadetsky, Crucial Felix, Mike Dillion, Dan Levine, and
Benjamin Gleitzman
Illustration:
James Clapham