How worried should we be about balance disorders?
About
Meet our team
Contact
Metrolic
Editorials
Home
World News
U.S. News
Business
Technology
Entertainment
Lifestyle
Science
Environment
Health
Sports
Arts
How worried should we be about balance disorders?
Written by
admin
Posted in:
Health
no comments
Do you like this story?
We all experience
balance disorders
at some point or another. These can occur disparately or quite frequently but, either way, most of us surely stop and wonder what brought it about or if whether there’s any underlying condition we should worry about. Still, very few
of us seek medical attention for something like this. As quickly as they occur so they pass and we rarely give it a second thought. Still, here’s your chance to clear up this aspect in your life and know what you’re dealing with.
A balance disorder is a disturbance of an individual’s physical functions which make him or her experience unsteadiness, giddiness, wooziness, a moving or even a spinning or a floating sensation.
We might be taking our balance for granted if you think that it is a result of excellent syncing of several body systems and of the way in which they can harmoniously work together.  The main elements that lead to our balance are the visual system, the vestibular system and the
proprioception . Simply put, the eyes, the ears and the sense of where we are in space are essential though second to the brain’s ability to compile information and send out “orders”.
Disruption of you body’s balance is very common partly because it can be the form of expression for many pathologies ranging from low blood pressure in the best case and brain tumors or
strokes , in the worst case.   Considering the later possibility, no physical imbalance should be ignored.
A balance disorder can be cause therefore even by an infection in the ear. However,  a head injury, or blood circulation disorders that affect the
inner ear or brain are more common causes. Sometimes it can simply be the result of getting older.
From a different standpoint, problems in the visual, skeletal systems, the
nervous and circulatory systems can also be the source of
balance problems. For example, low blood
pressure can cause dizziness when we suddenly stand up. Arthritis or eye
muscle imbalance, as examples of disturbances in the skeletal and visual system, also may cause balance problems. Even so, most balance problems appear all of a sudden, out of nowhere, with no apparent cause.
Balance disorders can be called in many different ways like lightheaded, floating, woozy, confused, helpless, fuzzy in daily life but in the medical field they are referred to as
vertigo , disequilibrium and pre-syncope. These distinctions are used to tell between severity of the conditions the imbalance indicates.
Here’s how you can tell between them.
Vertigo
is when you have a spinning sensation either of yourself or of the room around you. This condition is quite disturbing and it is most commonly accompanied by nausea and vomiting.
Disequilibrium is the sensation or being off balance and it most likely results in frequent falls. These falls are oddly enough always in a specific direction. Pre-syncope is a sensation of weakness, of feeling lightheaded or fain. This occurs usually before fainting (syncope).
Diagnosing
balance
disorder
is, as you’ve probably already guessed, quite complicated. There are many medical conditions that can contribute or act like important variables in the offset of balance  disorders. There are even some medications that can cause these disorders, so a medical examination is essential and you should tell your doctor everything he asks about no matter how relevant you think that information is. After your physician evaluates your case you might need to see a
physiotherapist
as he can assess balance in detail.
The opinion of an otolaryngologist might also be necessary before ruling out any underlying medical condition. This specialist is a physician/surgeon who specializes in disorders of the ear, nose, head, neck, throat and can even specialize in balance disorders. All in all, a rigorous  examination and a medical history are about what you need to ease your mind.
Specialized tests must be necessary if there’s still a question of your health status. Tests of your vestibular system for example, can include a electronystagmography(ENG), a Videoystagmograph(VNG), a rotation test, a Computerized Dynamic Posturography and a Caloric reflex test. Your auditory system can be tested through pure-tone audiometry, speech audiomtery, acoustic-reflex and many other test you are better off asking your physician about. Other tests can include magnetic resonance imaging(MRI) and
computerized axial tomography (CAT).
Everyone has a dizzy spell now and then, but the term “dizziness” may
mean something different to different people. For some people,
dizziness might be a fleeting sensation of spinning, while for others
it’s intense and lasts a long time. Experts believe that more than four
out of 10 Americans will experience an episode of dizziness significant
enough to send them to a doctor.
Here’s how you can tell if you should reconsider your ocassional dizzy spell.  You can start by asking yourself these questions: do I feel unsteady?; do I feel like the room is spinning around me?; Do I feel as if I’m moving when I know I’m sitting still?; do I sometimes lose my balance and fall?; do I feel as if I am free falling?; do I feel lightheaded or faint?; do I experience blurred vision during the dizzy spells?; do I lose my sense of time or space? These are some of the questions that are actually common sense to ask yourself and immediately seek a doctor’s attention if the answers are affirmative.
Treatment can vary from physiotherapy and medicine, to diet changes or learning how to cope with balance disorder on a daily basis, if it cannot be cured completely.11
Did you like it? Share it! Tweet
Related Articles Magnet – Combating Brain Tumors
Many of us may not know, but brain tumors are not such an easy thing to deal with. Human brain actually controls your entire being and if something happens to it, you will never be the same again. This is the situation with human brain […] Top 10 Serious Drug Side Effects
Most of the people have to take at some point in their life prescription drugs, which are drugs that can not be bought from the pharmacy without a written recipe from the doctor.<-200x200 Small Square->
Many of these drugs are not […] Top 10 Most Deadly Poisons In The World
Everybody wants to know which are the most deadly poisons because they believe that if they recognize them they might escape getting poisoned.<-200x200 Small Square->
But the truth is that the most dangerous poisons in the world […] Treatment To Prevent HIV Spread
Up until now, many studies have been made in order to find ways of preventing the HIV from spreading. <-300x250 Medium Rectangle->
According to a new research, it seems that this is possible now, thanks to a combination of […] Top 10 Most Infectious Diseases
There are a lot of diseases that can affect people, but it is the simple ones, which have no actual cure, but the immune system of the body to fight against them.<-200x200 Small Square->
Take the common cold for example. Scientists […] Pumpkin Seeds Oil – Useful for Prostate Affections
The infection of the urinal and the prostate is among the most frequent affections of the renal system. Diseases such as renal lithiasis, genital infections or some problems in the evacuation of urine, favorite the appearance of these […] Anxiety Fueled By Dopamine Release In The Brain Of Anorexics
Anorexia nervosa is one of the most common eating disorders nowadays, especially among teenage girls who do not seem to get some peace when it comes to their bodies.<-300x250 Medium Rectangle->
Anorexia is the type of disorder […] Switch for Fear Discovered
Fear is a very common thing and being scared is part of our daily life. We usually react thanks to our instincts when it comes to being afraid of something, but most of the times we freeze with fear. Scientists have made a study to […]
« previous post
next post »
Comments are closed.
Loading...
Today’s Most Popular
Abu Dhabi, The Richest City In The World Susan Boyle's Autobiography: The Woman I Was Born To Be Top Alien Encounter Stories Romanians Are On The Verge Of Finding The Cure For Cancer New Planet Earth Found?
Find us on Facebook
Recent Comments
Bogdan : My friend,
I would avoid considering some theories as bei
cours de cuisine Strasbourg : Its like you learn my mind! You appear to grasp a lot about
NIDHIN A S : ENJOY THE LAST TIMES OF YOURS BY A HUMAN BEING WHO LOVES THE
Barnes : Satan (Allah) will call Jesus loud in the end.
Muthusi : Why do those aliens show themselves only on whitelands,why h
9637567952 : a
Nancy : I am reading the Dulce book, and it made me think of some of
Dr. Sanathdeva Murutenge : Now I am really getting tired of reading junk science of Ste
Faithful : I see the math is ounce and ton but china is using Metro ton
garba ali : helo
very
body
i love
this
country
is
very
nice
an
Keep In Touch
subscribe to
RSS
become a fan on
Facebook
Smartphone Powered
Did you know that
Metrolic
can be viewed from popular touch-based smartphones like iPhone TM , iPod touch TM , Android TM , Palm TM
Pre/Pixi, and BlackBerry Storm TM ?
© 2010 Metrolic. All rights reserved |
Meet our team
|
Contact us
|
Archive
|
About