May | 2012 | Ehran Edwards
Skip to content
Ehran Edwards
Cinematographer. Editor. Writer
Primary Menu
Menu
Bio
Contact
Film Portfolio
Photography
Weddings
Month
May 2012
Five Poison Arrows – Music Video
May 31, 2012 October 1, 2012 Ehran Edwards
Leave a comment
I am thrilled to show you all my music video ‘Five Poison Arrows’.
This is a music video I made for Stephanie Cherote in 2010. The video was a school exercise to practice working with the RED ONE camera. I also challenged myself to learn more about After effects.
It was a difficult project for me at the time as my grandfather had passed away just a month earlier and Stephanie requested the  the story be about grief of a lost one. All the same, my  connection to the project spurred me on to make the best clip I knew how at the time.
Prior to this I had never done any special effects work, let alone opened  After Effects. I was somewhat naive as to what I was getting myself into. I did my utmost toresearch and prepare to film the video with the effects in mind, but not having the experience I did make my job more difficult for myself in the editing room. That being said I worked harder to make up for all my shortcomings in pre-production to ensure the final result was just as I had dreamed.
I was very happy with the result and humbled to have the video selected for the ‘International Film School of Sydney’s yearly screening at the Ritz Cinema, Randwick in 2011. Unfortunately, due to technical problems, the video was never screened. The young actors had all come to watch themselves on the big screen in front of a large audience. They went home disappointed. I hope that people can now watch this video and enjoy it. Giving them the credit they deserved.
Thanks to all who were involved in making this video, the actors, the make up artists and the crew.
Music and Lyrics by Stephanie Cherote.
Cinematographer, Director, Producer and Art design – Ehran Edwards
Camera Assist – Kieran Fowler
Gaffer – Jordi Planell
Gaffer – Anton Syzonov
1st AD – Luke Jacobs
Makeup – Debbie Muller
Editing – Ehran Edwards
Special Effects – Ehran Edwards and Realm Choong
Featuring: Stephanie Cherote, Gabriela Basioli, Patrick Ferreira, Mitchel O’Brien, Lincoln Foagali, Danielle Spencer, Grace Palmer, Samantha Perugini, Diane Woollett. Thank you to the whole cast. You were all amazing and an absolute joy to work with. I wish you all the best of luck in your future careers. xxx
A special thanks to Realm Choong who was my saviour when it came to all the special effects work that I needed to learn. I couldn’t have done it without you.
Follow/Like my Facebook page at
http://www.facebook.com/Ehranjade.Filmmaker
Here is a link to my latest music video
‘Only Only’ by Brendan Maclean
Share this: Twitter Facebook Google Tumblr Pinterest Like this: Like
Loading...
‘Cumbia Muffin’ Live at The Basement
May 26, 2012 September 25, 2012 Ehran Edwards
Leave a comment
Here are two videos which I worked on in November 2011. I recently discovered they had been edited and am excited to share them with you.
I worked alongside Miguel Llano who was the 1st camera getting the static shots, while I ran around like mad at the front amongst all the dancers getting the close ups.
It was such an enjoyable gig. I’m sure you will enjoy the music.
The band is
Cumbia Muffin , they are an energetic, spontaneous Columbian troupe. There music is a mix of original works and reorchestrated mixes of Columbian 80s classics.
‘Fiesta de Negritos’ by Cumbia Muffin
‘Cumbia En Do Menor’ by Cumbiamuffin.
Share this: Twitter Facebook Google Tumblr Pinterest Like this: Like
Loading...
IDAHO 2012 Documentary Trailer
May 22, 2012 September 25, 2012 Ehran Edwards
Leave a comment
Here is a short trailer for the IDAHO 2012 documentary that I worked on. The Full length documentary will be released shortly.
IDAHO (International Day AGAINST Homophobia) 2012
was celebrated at Parramatta Town Hall on the 6th of May.
The event was hosted by Bump productions and documented by
Lantern House Films.
The day consisted of a spectacular performance by the ‘ Sydney Gay and Lesbian Choir ‘ as well as presentations and speeches by
PFLAG (Parents, Family and Friends of Lesbians and Gays) , ‘ Wear it Purple ‘ and the NSW Police force.
It was a wonderful day to witness. I feel very privileged to have heard the personal accounts of parents as well as being amongst the audience during the emotional choir performance.
IDAHO 2012 Documentary Trailer
Filmed by: Ehran Edwards, Adrian Tan and Lucas Plunkett
Sound by: Andrew Bennett and Giovanni Zarrilo
Edited by: Andrew Bennett
Featuring: Footage from ‘Wear It Purple’s short documentary ‘E3 – Envisage/Empower/Engage.
Photo by: Jason Nicholl Photography Featuring ‘Sydney Gay and Lesbian Choir’
Share this: Twitter Facebook Google Tumblr Pinterest Like this: Like
Loading...
Film Review – ‘Sunrise: A Song of Two Humans’
May 3, 2012 May 3, 2012 Ehran Edwards
Leave a comment
I haven’t done a film review on my site yet and boy am I thrilled that the first one is
‘Sunrise; A Song of Two Humans’ .
I’m currently working on a short film which is very much inspired by many of the artistic black and white films from the 20s – 50s. So the director leant me a whole pile of films for me to watch so that I knew what it was he was trying to acheive for his new project. A little overwhelmed at the tone of the films as I spotted ‘ Nosferatu ‘, ‘ Suspiria ‘, ‘ Inferno ‘ and ‘ Vertigo ‘. Not exactly the most relaxing of movies to sit back and watch at the end of a long day at work. However, I delved into the pile, and this is one of the first gems I came across.
I didn’t know anything about this film. As far as I could tell, it was old and black and white. I had had a few people recommend it, and since I didn’t feel like watching Italian horror, I thought I’d see what it was about.
The film starts with a number of title cards and I soon realised I was watching a very elegant silent movie. Having just watched
‘The Artist’ , a very spot on homage to the silent era, I was curious as to what a genuine silent film of the time would be like.
Upon meeting the characters and the plot being laid down before me, I was hooked. The characters were a lot less 2 dimensional than I expected, with strong elements of deceit, vanity, purity and unabashed selfishness.  The plot in itself was was thick with heartbreaking desires and evil motivations.
The film follows a simple farmer who lives with his wife and young child. The farmer is ensued by an evil femme fatale from the city. The farmer falls prey to the temptress, callously ignoring his wife, he goes to her, selling off stock to provide her with wealth and comfort. Not satisfied with their brief meetings and his money the woman begs him to murder his wife so they can be together. The foolish farmer agrees and the two plan a way to be rid of the wife without any suspicion. The farmer begins to carry out their plan, taking his wife out on a boat with the intention of drowning her. The farmer becomes torn as to what he should do and struggles to go through with the plan. His wife soon realising his intentions, she is heartbroken, she watches as her husband comes before her with outstretched hands.
I don’t want to tell you what happens as it is truly gripping right up until the final moments of the film.
Made in 1928 and directed by F.W Murnau. It stars George O’Brien as the Farmer, Janet Gaynor as his wife and Margaret Livingston as the woman from the city. ‘Sunrise’ was the first and only film to win the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences’ (AMPAS) ‘Best Picture’ award in the category of “Artistic Quality of Production”. The film also took home Oscars for ‘Best Actress award for Janet Gaynor and Best cinematography for Charles Rosher and Karl Struss.The film is also quite bold in style and visual effects. Known as the finest silent movie ever made in Hollywood, it truly lives up to it’s reputation.
I was amazed at some of the effects. Most impressively scenes where it appeared there was a superimposed image giving a ghost like effect to it. I have read since that they did this in camera. Where they covered part of the film, only partially exposing it, then put the exposed film back in again, without the coverings, and exposing it again. That just blows my mind! Murnaus’ creative and imaginative flashbacks are also quite inspirational. Never before have I felt so much dread from such a short and blatant dream sequence.
This bittersweet story is completely engaging, hardly making use of title cards at all, the performances are directed so well that it barely feels like a silent film. With a sublime orchestrated soundtrack, charismatic characters and it’s groundbreaking effects this is certainly one to watch.
Heres the trailer, which unfortunately doesn’t feature the beautiful film score.
Share this: Twitter Facebook Google Tumblr Pinterest Like this: Like
Loading...
Follow me on Facebook
Follow me on Facebook
Follow my Blog
Enter your email address to follow this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Join 79 other followers
Archives
Archives
Select Month
October 2015  (2)
September 2015  (2)
October 2013  (1)
July 2013  (2)
June 2013  (1)
May 2013  (1)
April 2013  (6)
March 2013  (5)
February 2013  (4)
January 2013  (12)
December 2012  (2)
November 2012  (9)
October 2012  (13)
September 2012  (22)
August 2012  (5)
July 2012  (9)
June 2012  (1)
May 2012  (4)
April 2012  (6)
March 2012  (6)
February 2012  (14)
January 2012  (11)
December 2011  (3)
November 2011  (8)
October 2011  (5)
Recent Posts
Announcement!
First Impressions of the DJI Ronin-M
One Week In
Fork in the Road
Beehive Trailer and Crowd Funding
Green Screen Basics
Beehive in the media – Australian Cinematographer Magazine
The Making of Beehive ~ Part 4: Production Design
The Making of Beehive ~ Part 3: Getting the Wheels in Motion
Mind Over Matters ‘Real Life’ Music Video
Quote of the day #16 – Confidence and Robert Downey Jr
Red Epic Review and Tutorial
2287
Quote of the Day #15 – Academics, Creativity and Werner Herzog
Making of Beehive ~ Part 2: Finding a Crew
The importance of Networking and minding your manners.
The Making of Beehive ~ Part 1: The Script
Quote for the Day #14 – Being Interesting and Saying So with Charlie Chaplin and F Scott Fitzgerald
Quote For The Day #13 – Breaking the Mould with Ang Lee
Beehive Official Facebook Page
1. Beehive - A short film by Ehran Edwards
Quote for the Day #7
Quote for the Day #9
Introducing Beehive
Auditions Day 1
Quote for the Day #11
Quote for the Day #10
Beehive crew
Quote for the Day #12
Quote for the Day #13
Quote for the Day #14
The Cast of Beehive
The Making of Beehive Part 1: The Script
The Making of Beehive ~ Part 2: Finding a crew
Beehive Official Facebook Page
The Making of Beehive ~ Part 3: Wheels in motion
The Making of Beehive ~ Part 4: Production Design
2. Film Gear, Reviews & Tutorials by Ehran
Building A Camera Assist Toolkit
So You Want to be A Camera Assistant
Panasonic Lumix DMC-GH3
Sony Action Cam
Go Pro Hero Naked and Hero2
Twixtorial Part 1 – Slow Motion with Canon 5D MII
Slow Motion With Canon 7D
Red Scarlet-X
Sony NEX FS-100
Sony NEX FS-700
Red Epic Review and Tutorial
3. Cameras and Film Gear
DP review
DSLR News shooter
Letus Direct
Jag35
Planet 5D
Rig wheels
5D Filmmaking
Carl Zeiss Cinematography
Canon 5D tips.com
Depth of Field Calculator
Arri
Hand Held Hollywood
4. Hire and Retail
Digihire – AU
B & H
Digital World International
Camera Lab
Discount Digital Photographics
Georges Camera Store
Digital Logic
Rent A Cam
Red Apple Camera Rentals
Video Australasia
Lemac
Panavision
Barbizon Lighting Company
Set Wear
Adorama
Metro Screen
http://www.digihire.com.au
The Front
Camera Hire Australia
5. Recommended Blogs
shoot.edit.learn
Philip Bloom DP
Pro Lost
Going For Picture
The Black and Blue
The Light Journal
Olivia Tech
6. Cinematography
American Society of Cinematographers
Australian Cinematographers Society
Society of Camera Operators
7. Filmmaking
No Filmschool
Exposure room
Reddit/ Filmmakers
The Making of Beehive Part 1: The Script
8. Job/ Industry
Craigslist
Production WEEKLY
Ehran Edwards
Ehran Edwards
Ehran Jade Cinematographer
Hey, i’m a freelance cinematographer. I am passionate about filmmaking and photography. I am interested in working as a cinematographer, camera operator, editor, director or producer.
Pretty much everything when it comes to film.
Welcome to my blog. I am a freelance cinematographer, videographer and camera assist. I also write, direct and edit.
You can check out my Facebook page at www.facebook.com/EhranEdwards.Film
Blog at WordPress.com .
|
The Wilson Theme .
Follow
Follow “Ehran Edwards”
Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.
Join 79 other followers
Build a website with WordPress.com
%d
bloggers like this: