Cyberpunk
The Matrix
.
This article is about the film The Matrix, for other usages
of the term, see
Matrix .
The Matrix
is a
film
first released
in the
USA
on
March 31 ,
1999 ,
written and directed by the
Wachowski brothers
(Andy and Larry). It stars
Keanu Reeves ,
Laurence Fishburne ,
Carrie-Anne Moss , and
Hugo
Weaving .
The story is about a young computer
hacker
who
learns about the true nature of his reality and gets involved with a band
of rebels fighting against the masters of it, sentient
computer programs
called
agents .
The Matrix
earned $171 million in the US and $456 million
worldwide. The movie's unexpected success spawned its expansion into a series
(see
Matrix series ) of three films ( The
Matrix ,
The Matrix Reloaded , and
The Matrix Revolutions ), a computer/video
game ( Enter the Matrix ), and a collection of nine
animated
shorts (the
Animatrix ). All of the ideas were written by
the Wachowski brothers, although five of the nine animated shorts count among
their authors noted figures from the world of Japanese animation ( Anime ). Also,
the movie's official website provides free comics, set in the world of
The
Matrix . Some of these comics are now available in printed form (on 120
pages), although the creators claim that free comics will be available on
the site in the future.
Contents
[ show hide ]
1
Awards and nominations
2 Synopsis
3 Influences
3.1 Literature
3.2 Cinematic
3.3 Philosophy
3.4 Science
4 Principal
cast
5
Similarities with Neuromancer
6 Related
articles
7 External
links
Awards and nominations
The Matrix
received
Oscars
for
film editing ,
sound effects editing ,
visual effects , and
sound . Furthermore, the film won these
awards over
Star Wars: The Phantom Menace ,
making it the first film to win the special effects Oscars over a film of
the
Star Wars
series. The film is known for its innovative
special effects, including the " bullet-time "
effect, a combination of slow motion and camera orbiting around a given subject.
Won 4
Academy Awards , for
Best Editing ,
Sound Effects Editing ,
Visual Effects , and
Best Sound .
Synopsis
Spoiler warning :
Plot or ending
details follow.
Keanu Reeves
as
Neo
in
The Matrix
A computer software programmer named
Thomas A. Anderson , who prefers his hacker
name "Neo," is contacted by a group of humans who resist the Matrix. Morpheus,
their leader and a practitioner of
critical pedagogy , explains to Neo that the
Matrix is a false reality and invites him to enter the "real world." There
Neo discovers that the year is not 1999, but about 2199 and that humanity
is fighting a war against intelligent machines. Morpheus has rescued Neo
from the Matrix because he believes that Neo is "The One," who will destroy
the Matrix and save humankind. It turns out that the world which Neo has
inhabited since birth, the Matrix, is an illusory
simulated reality
construct of the world of
1999 ,
developed by the machines to keep the human population docile whilst they
are used as power plants to keep the computers running.
Morpheus believes that Neo has the power to free humankind from
its enslavement through complete mastery over the Matrix. Neo is initially
skeptical, but learns how he can "bend the rules" of the Matrix. He also
forms a close personal relationship with a female member of the group, Trinity.
Inside the Matrix, the humans are pursued by a group of self-aware programs,
called Agents, capable of punching through walls and dodging bullets, as
well as having incredible martial arts skills. Their most powerful skill
is their ability to "jump" between bodies, enabling them to take over any
person who has not been disconnected from the Matrix.
When one member of the resistance (code named Cypher, who is subsequently
killed off) betrays them and allows Agents to capture Morpheus, Neo goes back
into The Matrix with Trinity to save their leader. After Morpheus and Trinity
exit the Matrix, Agent Smith, the leader of the Agents, destroys the phone
booth from which the escape signal was being broadcasted. Subsequently,
Neo
engages in a final duel with the program, killing the agent's current body.
He then flees as a new Agent Smith arrives, having just taken over a new
person.
Upon reaching the second location of a hard line (a hijacked phoneline
which carries the escape sequence necessary for exit from the Matrix), Neo
is shot in the chest by Agent Smith. Neo slumps over, apparently dead. However,
in the real world, Trinity refuses to accept Neo's death, and whispers into
his ear that she now believes what the prophecy has fortold. Neo, who is
seemingly awakened by the power of her love, realizes the fabricated nature
of the Matrix, and it is only then that he is able to transcend the world
around him. Empowered by this newfound notion of disbelief, Neo effortlessly
defeats Agent Smith, thereby "deleting" him from the Matrix. He returns to
the real world and is greeted by Trinity and Morpheus.
Influences
Literature
The story makes numerous references to historical and literary myths,
including
Alice's Adventures in Wonderland ,
Judeo-Catholic
imagery
about
Messianism
and the
novels
of
William Gibson , especially
Neuromancer .
Gibson popularized the concept of a world wide
computer
network with a
virtual reality
interface, which was named "the
matrix" in his
Sprawl Trilogy . However the concept and name
apparently originated even earlier in the
1976
serial
The Deadly Assassin
on the British
science-fiction television
series
Doctor Who , which featured a virtual reality
known as
the Matrix . The first writer about a virtual
reality, populated with unsuspecting victims, was
Daniel F. Galouye
with
Simulacron Three
1964 .
The concept of
artificial intelligence
overthrowing
or enslaving mankind had previously been touched on by hundreds of
science fiction
stories, cinematically most
notably in
James Cameron 's
1984
film,
The Terminator . The idea of a world controlled
by machines and all of humanity living underground goes back to the
1909
short
story
The Machine Stops
by
E.
M. Forster .
Note:
The Matrix
was often mistakenly considered by critics
and public to be a sequel to
Johnny Mnemonic
which also stars
Keanu
Reeves
and belongs to the
Cyberpunk
genre.
Cinematic
The Matrix
has many cinematic influences, ranging from
explicit homage to stylistic nuances. Its action scenes, with a physics-defying
style also drawn directly from
martial arts films , are notable. They integrate
Hong
Kong
style
kung fu
hand-to-hand combat (under the skilled guidance
of
Yuen Wo Ping ) and wire work, the hyper-active
gun fights of directors such as
John Woo
and
Ringo
Lam , and classic American action movie tropes, including a rooftop chase.
It could also be argued that The Matrix was originally based on
or inspired by the concept of
Ghost
hacking , which is taken from
Ghost in the Shell .
Additionally, there are notable influences from Japanese animation
( anime ). Both
a scene near the end of the movie, where Neo's breathing seems to buckle
the fabric of reality in the corridor where he is standing, as well as the
"psychic children" scene in the
Oracle 's waiting
room are evocative of similar scenes from the
1980s
anime
classic
Akira . The title sequence, the rooftop chase
scene where an agent breaks a concrete tile on the roof when landing after
a jump, the scene late in the movie where a character hides behind a column
while pieces of it are blown away by bullets, and a chase scene in a fruit
market where shots hit watermelons, are practically identical to shots in
another anime science fiction classic,
Ghost in the Shell .
Philosophy
The Matrix
follows all phases of the
Campbellian
heroic myth arc with near-literal
precision, including even minor details like the circular journey, the crucial
battle happening underground, and even the three-headed immortal enemy (the
three agents).
Elements of
theology
and
philosophy
are heavily present in
The Matrix . Also, students of
Gnosticism
will notice many of its themes touched upon. There are also many references
to
Hinduism ,
Buddhism
and
Taoism ,
with concepts of Enlightenment/ Nirvana
and rebirth. Further references to
Buddhism / Hinduism
include the
free will
versus
fate
debate
and the nature of
reality ,
perception ,
enlightenment ,
Karma
and existence.
In many ways
The Matrix
is about a kind of
reality enforcement , or similarly,
hyperreality .
There have been several books and
websites
written about the philosophy of
The Matrix . One of the major issues
in the film is the question of the validity of the world around us, i.e.,
what is reality, or whether what is happening is merely sensory information
fed to us, is also raised in other
science fiction
films including
eXistenZ ,
Total Recall , and peripherally in the film
Abre los ojos
(remade into
Vanilla
Sky ).
The ideas behind
The Matrix
have been explored in old philosophical
texts on
epistemology , such as
Plato's allegory of the cave
and
Descartes '
Meditations on First Philosophy .
In a well-known
Solipsistic
thought experiment , the
subject
is a
brain in a vat
of liquid; in the Matrix, Neo
is a body in a vat.
Postmodern
thought plays a tangible role in the movie.
In an opening scene, Neo hides a diskette in a false copy of
Jean Baudrillard 's
Simulacra and Simulation ,
a work that describes modern life as a
hyperreal
experience of simulation based upon simulation. Interpretations of
The
Matrix
often reference Baudrillard's philosophy to demonstrate that
the movie is an allegory for contemporary experience in a heavily commercialized,
media-driven society.
See also:
the
philosophy
( http://whatisthematrix.warnerbros.com/rl_cmp/new_phil_category.html )
section of the
official matrix website
( http://www.thematrix.com/ ) .
Science
It should be noted that the reason given in the movie for
computers
enslaving humans is implausible from a
thermodynamic
point of view. The chemical energy
required to keep a human being alive is vastly greater than the bio-electric
energy that could be harvested. It would be vastly more effective to burn
the organic matter then to power a conventional
electrical generator . Some people have
pointed out the possibility that the laws of thermodynamics work differently
in real life than in the matrix to make it harder for people to suspect they
are being used as a power source, or that the machines have technology not
yet imaginable by humans, and thus the known laws of science are impossible
to apply in this situation. On the other hand, Morpheus speaks of physical
laws like gravity applying both to the real world and within its simulation,
and the scenes we see within the real world are certainly consistent with
basic physics. (It is difficult to imagine how the "real world" would look
if
entropy
were the machines' invention, for example.) Critical fans have speculated
that the machines were actually using the humans' brains as components in
a massively parallel
neural network
computer, and that the characters
were simply mistaken about the purpose. This error would then be reflected
in the "Zion Historical Archive" of
The Second Renaissance .
In fact,
this was very close to the original explanation. Because they felt that non-technical
viewers would have trouble understanding it, the writers abandoned it in
favor of the "human power source" explanation. The neural-network explanation,
however, is presented in the film's novelization, and the short story "Goliath",
featured on the Matrix website and in the first volume of The Matrix Comics.
Principal cast
Keanu Reeves
as
Neo
Laurence Fishburne
as
Morpheus
Carrie-Anne Moss
as
Trinity
Hugo Weaving
as
Agent
Smith
Julian Arahanga
as
Apoc
Marcus Chong
as
Tank
Matt Doran
as
Mouse
Gloria Foster
as the
Oracle
Paul Goddard
as Agent Brown
Belinda McClory
as
Switch
Joe Pantoliano
as
Cypher
Anthony Ray Parker
as
Dozer
Robert Taylor (actor II)
as Agent Jones
Trivia buffs should also be interested to learn that
Carrie-Anne Moss
also appeared in a short-lived
science fiction
television
series called
Matrix [1]
( http://imdb.com/title/tt0106062/ )
in
1993 .
Similarities with Neuromancer
The plot of
The Matrix
bears some resemblance to the basic
plot of the book
Neuromancer . In both a computer hacker is recruited
to perform a particularly difficult task. This is not particularly surprising,
since both
The Matrix
and
Neuromancer
are in the same genre:
cyberpunk .
One could argue (perhaps facetiously) that once a writer sets out to create
a cyberpunk fiction, certain elements are expected,
e.g.,
the tough-guy
hacker/cracker hero, his optional female sidekick, the more-or-less malevolent
artificial intelligences, and so forth. It has been noted that
Neo
is similar to
Case , while
Trinity
may resemble
Molly . (The extent of these
resemblances can be debated: Trinity does not have retractable claws, and
we know the color of her eyes.) On the other hand, Neo's "recruiter", Morpheus,
does not have a close
Neuromancer
counterpart. The nearest match
would most likely be Armitage, yet Morpheus's personality was not constructed
by an AI, nor did he ever threaten Neo with neurotoxin sacs in Neo's bloodstream.
Indeed, Morpheus is a respected member high in the hierarchy of a human resistance
movement, whereas Armitage is largely a lone wolf, employed and manipulated
by an AI.
Other differences are also illuminating. Consider, for example,
Gibson's Turing Police, as compared to the Wachowski brothers' agent programs.
In
Neuromancer,
we have
human
police, tasked to limit the
growth of artificial intelligences. The Matrix world, by contrast, gives
us AIs who curtail human development. Gibson shows humans working alongside
the AI Wintermute; their eventual triumph is presented as a victory for the
"good guys". Again in contrast, the human-AI collaboration in
The Matrix —Cypher
defecting to the agents—appears to undermine all that good and right stand
for. From this standpoint,
The Matrix
can be seen as an
antithesis
to Gibson's
Neuromancer.
Related articles
The Matrix Reloaded
The Matrix Revolutions
The Matrix Online
Enter The Matrix
Virtual reality
Martial arts film
Bullet-time
Digitalism
External links
Wikiquote
has a
collection of quotes by or about
The Matrix .
The Matrix
official website
( http://www.thematrix.com/ )
Internet Movie
Database entry on
The Matrix
( http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0133093 )
Matrixfans.net
( http://matrixfans.net/ )
The
Many Meanings of
The Matrix
( http://www.integralnaked.org/talk.aspx?id=205 ) ,
Larry Wachowski
in a dialogue with
Ken Wilber .
Thumbnailed
DMOZ Matrix category
( http://open.thumbshots.org/Arts/Movies/Titles/M/Matrix_Series/Matrix_Reloaded,_The/ )
Matrix Wiki
Encyclopedia (dictionary-of-matrix.com)
( http://www.dictionary-of-matrix.com/ )
Matrix-Explained.com: Explanations,
photos, discussion board, links
( http://www.matrix-explained.com )
Technology
- The Shadow of the Matrix
( http://japanvisitor.com/jc/shadow-of-the-matrix.html )
X-matrix.net - Home of The Final Matrix Exegesis
( http://X-matrix.net )
MATRIX²
Wired Magazine May 2003
( http://www.wired.com/wired/archive/11.05/matrix2_pr.html )
MatrixTheories
( http://thematrix.talkinbout.us/ )
Unplugging The Matrix
( http://slate.msn.com/id/2090943/ ) , an
article on
Slate .
Man as the World-Builder
( http://www.dwheeler.com/essays/world-builders.html ) ,
one of many philosophical articles inspired by the move.
Philosophy
of The Matrix
( http://whatisthematrix.warnerbros.com/rl_cmp/new_phil_category.html )
(official Warner Brothers Site, mentioned previously).
PlayTheMatrix.net , role-playing game
based on The Matrix universe (in Spanish)
The Matrix Reloaded
.
The Matrix Reloaded
is the part of the
second installment of the
Matrix
series , written by the
Wachowski brothers
and released in
North
American
theaters
May 15 ,
2003
by
Warner
Bros.
and around the world during the latter half of that month.
The
Matrix Reloaded
earned $281 million dollars in the US and $735 million
dollars worldwide. The other parts of the second installment are the computer
game
Enter the Matrix , which was released May 15,
and a collection of nine animated shorts, the
Animatrix ,
which was released on June 3.
The Matrix Revolutions
was released
six months after this film, in November 2003.
Contents
[ show hide ]
1 Overview
2 Plot
2.1 The
Threat
2.2
The Oracle
2.3 Smith
2.4
The Merovingian & The Keymaker
2.5
The Architect
2.6
To Be Concluded...
3 Discussion
4 Cast
5
External links
Overview
The Matrix Reloaded
was largely filmed at the
Fox Studios
in
Sydney ,
Australia .
The climactic
freeway
chase scene was filmed at the decommissioned
Alameda Naval Air Station
in
Alameda, California . Producers constructed
a 1.5-mile freeway on the old runways just for the movie. Portions of the
chase were also filmed in
Oakland, California , and the tunnel shown
briefly is the
Webster Tube
connecting Oakland and
Alameda. Some post-production editing was done in old aircraft hangars on
the base as well.
While surpassing the first part of the trilogy in cinematography
and special/visual effects budget, some fans have suggested that the sequel
adheres more closely to the
action
genre , with less of a focus on the intricate plot and philosophical musings
that made the first film the subject of intense fan devotion. This opinion
is not universally held, however: some viewers have argued that the philosophical
insights of the first movie were overrated, while many others have expressed
satisfaction with the consistent continuation of the original film's plot
and metaphysical speculation in
Reloaded .
Reloaded
earned an estimated $42.5 million on its Thursday
opening day in the
United States , a new record surpassing the one
set in
May
2002
by
Spider-Man , which took in $39.4 million
on its first day. The movie earned $91.8 million over its first Friday, Saturday,
and Sunday, establishing it as the second-best opening weekend ever after
Spider-Man's
2002 record of $114.8 million in ticket sales
during its three-day opening weekend.
Reloaded
garnered the biggest
debut ever for an
R-rated film , topping by far the $58
million for
2001 's
Hannibal .
Reloaded
eventually
broke
Beverly Hills Cop 's 19-year-old record
for the top-grossing R-rated film of all time, holding that record only briefly,
until it was taken by
The Passion of the Christ
a few
months later.
Most of the main characters from its prequel,
The Matrix ,
are included in
Reloaded , including
Neo
( Keanu
Reeves ),
Morpheus
( Laurence Fishburne ), and
Trinity
( Carrie-Anne Moss ). There are also many new
faces such as Link, the Merovingian, and the Architect. Filmed simultaneously
to the third movie,
The Matrix Revolutions , it includes
action scenes such as a chase involving over 50 vehicles, including motorcycles
and
18-wheelers . In addition, there is finally
footage of
Zion ,
the underground city alluded to in
The Matrix .
The film was banned in
Egypt
because
of the violent content and because it put into question issues about human
creation "linked to the three monotheistic religions that we respect and
which we believe in". Egyptian media claimed it promoted
Zionism
since it talks about Zion and the dark forces that wish to destroy it.
Pirate copies of
The Matrix Reloaded
appeared on file sharing
networks such as
BitTorrent
and
eDonkey2k
within two weeks of its theatrical release. Unlike some pirate copies of
new movies, which are covertly filmed from a cinema screen, the
Reloaded
copy is high quality, and is believed to have been made from a film print.
[1]
( http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/entertainment/film/2940270.stm )
Plot
Spoiler warning :
Plot or ending
details follow.
The Threat
Neo, Trinity, and Morpheus arrive in the underground city of Zion,
an enclave for humans who've escaped the machines. There they receive word
that 250,000
sentinels
are tunneling towards the underground city
of Zion, and Neo, Trinity, and Morpheus have only 72 hours to save the city.
Or so it seems...
Commander Lock, in charge of Zion's defenses, orders all ships to
return to prepare to the onslaught of the machines. Morpheus defies Lock's
directive and orders one ship to remain at "broadcast depth" to await word
from the
Oracle .
Morpheus believes that when she contacts Neo, the Prophesy will be fulfilled
and the machines will be stopped.
The Oracle
In the meantime, Neo is having trouble sleeping and is haunted by
dreams where he sees Trinity, now his lover, fight with an agent, fall out
a building, and shot in the chest on her way down. He does not, however,
see her die. The Oracle eventually contacts Neo and, meeting in a courtyard,
they have a characteristically cryptic yet enlightening conversation. She
curiously mentions Neo's sleeplessness, which is odd since that was apparently
only an affliction affecting Neo in the "real world." In talking with the
Oracle, Neo learns that everything in the Matrix isn't really as it seems.
The Oracle is a computer program, a part of the machine world. She
offers Neo a red candy that looks like the red pill Neo first took to leave
the Matrix and enter the "real world." He does not eat the candy; he merely
pockets it. The Oracle says that most programs work as intended and are consequently
invisible. On the other hand, programs sometimes go awry and are "assimilated"
back into the Matrix. Faced with deletion, she says, programs would rather
choose "exile" and be free in the Matrix instead of being removed back to
the Source, the machine mainframe. This, it turns out, is where Neo must go
in order to stop the machines and save Zion.
To return to the Source, Neo must first go to the Keymaker, another
program/person with "keys" to everything. He is held captive by the
Merovingian ,
a dangerous program/person among the eldest in the Matrix. The keys correspond
to "backdoors" to all the computer programs of the Matrix. The door to the
mainframe is kept under intense security and can only be accessed for "just
over five minutes" (until an alternate security system kicks in), or as the
Keymaker puts it "exactly 314 seconds." This of course is a reference to
pi , the only "anomaly"
in an otherwise "perfect" system of numbers.
Smith
The Oracle wishes Neo good luck and exits the courtyard just before
Smith (formerly
Agent Smith ) arrives. While it appeared that he
was destroyed at the end of
The Matrix , Smith explains that he and
Neo are now somehow connected. Smith realized that he should die, but understood
the rules and chose not to. Now he is free from the rules of the Matrix like
Neo, and desires to exact revenge.
He has figured out how to replicate himself at will through touch,
and can team up (with himself) against Neo. After an extravagant fight scene
dubbed "Burly Brawl" in which Neo takes on over 100 Smiths, Neo uses his
new ability to fly (first shown at the end of
The Matrix ) to escape.
Smith is able to "leave" the Matrix by taking over the body of Bane. When
Bane exits the Matrix through the phone line, he retains his appearance,
but his mind has been hijacked by Smith, and thus Smith's consciousness enters
the real world.
The Merovingian & The Keymaker
Neo, Trinity, and Morpheus leave to visit the Merovingian who is
accompanied by his wife
Persephone
and the Twins, his two silvery bodyguards who can become translucent and move
through solid objects. After a discussion about cause and effect and the
nature of the world, the Merovingian denies them access to the Keymaker and
bids them adieu. After puzzling over what went wrong, the trio is unexpectedly
led by Persephone, who is upset with her husband, to the Keymaker. Trinity
and Morpheus escape with the Keymaker by car and are chased onto the freeway
by the Twins, who are later joined by a slew of agents in a 15 minute freeway
chase scene. Neo is left behind to fight a half dozen of the Merovingian's
bodyguards alone.
Meanwhile, the machines continue burrowing and are a little over
nine hours away from reaching Zion. In response, several hovercraft are strategically
placed for a surprise counter-attack when the machines approach closer. Back
inside the Matrix, having survived the freeway chase, the Keymaker explains
how to reach the source: "There is a building. Inside this building there
is a level where no elevator can go and no stair can reach. This level is
filled with doors. These doors lead to many places--hidden places. But one
door is special. One door leads to the Source." To access the building, its
alarm must be disabled and to do that the electricity must be cut. In addition,
the core network of the electricity grid must be accessed and the emergency
fail-safes deactivated. For 314 seconds, the mainframe can be entered, but
The Keymaker warns, "Only the One can open the door, and only during that
window can the door be opened."
The Architect
Neo enters a room surrounded by television monitors and stands opposite
a man who identifies himself as the Architect, the creator of the Matrix.
He explains that Neo is the eventuality of an anomaly which the Architect
has been unable to remove from the near mathematical harmony that is the
Matrix. The Architect reveals that the Matrix is much older than Neo knows.
He says this is the sixth version of the Matrix and that Neo has had five
predecessors. The first version of the Matrix was designed to be perfect,
but failed due to the inherent flaws in every human being. Subsequent versions
were designed in which nearly 99% of subjects accepted the simulation. Still,
a certain fraction rejected the Matrix, creating a "systemic anomaly" which
if left unchecked threatened the stability of the Matrix. Those minds were
allowed to leave the system and live in Zion to preserve the stability of
the system. Now Zion is to be destroyed, Neo's anomalous existence is to
be merged into the mainframe Source, and the Matrix is to be "reloaded" or
reset.
After Neo's code is assimilated, he is to choose 23 individuals
(16 female, 7 male) to rebuild the next version of Zion. If he does not comply,
a catastrophic system crash will result, killing everyone plugged into the
Matrix, which combined with the destruction of Zion would mean the elimination
of the human race. The Architect tells Neo he can choose between two doors.
One leads to the Source and the salvation of Zion. The other leads to Trinity,
which as his dream predicted, is being chased by an agent. Neo chooses to
save Trinity, apparently at the expense of the human race, and the Architect
admonishes him, "Hope: it is the quintessential human delusion, simultaneously
the source of your greatest strength and your greatest weakness."
To Be Concluded...
Back in the real world, Morpheus is dismayed that the Prophecy has
been unfulfilled. Neo tells Morpheus that the Prophecy was just a lie, another
system of control. The Nebuchadnezzar comes under attack by sentinels and
the crew must abandon the ship. Outside, in the sewers, they run from the
sentinels, but Neo senses something has changed. He can "feel" the sentinels'
presence, even though he is no longer in the Matrix. Somehow he disables the
sentinels with a burst of electric energy, but then he falls unconscious and
enters a coma. The crew is rescued by another hovercraft. The film concludes
with the news that the surprise counter-attack has failed. Someone set off
an electromagnetic pulse early and five hovercraft were immediately disabled
and they were quickly overrun by the machines. There was only one survivor:
Bane, the man who has had his mind taken over by Smith in the real world.
The film ends with an ominous "To Be Concluded...", referring to
The Matrix Revolutions .
Discussion
In this film, Neo returns the favor to Trinity by bringing
her
back to life this time. The scene used visual effects which some see as illustrating
a healing energy coming from Neo, that merges with the rapidly fading energy
of lifeless Trinity. It could also be seen as another manifestation of Neo's
ability to manipulate items (in this case, a human heart) within the Matrix.
At the end of the movie, when the crew is forced to abandon the
Nebuchadnezzar due to a sentinel attack, Neo uses his abilities to destroy
the sentinels in the "real" world. This twist has sparked a flurry of discussions,
many of which suggest that the "real" world that Neo and the rest of Zion
occupy in is another Matrix inside the Matrix. Or alternatively, they never
really escaped from the first Matrix and it's all been an illusion. Most
viewers believe the first theory. The answer was expected in the third installment
of
The Matrix
series.
Another theory states that Neo's ability to produce an electromagnetic
pulse in the real world is the result of receiving programming from digesting
a piece of candy given to him by the Oracle, although we never see him consume
it. Receiving programs via foodstuffs is demonstrated by the Merovingian
earlier in the movie.
There are various references to philosophy, mythology and
computer science . The scene in which Neo fights
the Seraph is a simultaneous reference to the spirituality of martial arts
and to
challenge-response authentication .
It is also suggested that the Oracle is actually an
oracle machine . A cleverly constructed technical
detail is Trinity's use of an
ssh
exploit , which had not yet been discovered
(and thus fixed) in
1999
(the year which the Matrix simulates), to break into
a computer. The "hidden floor" full of doors is floor number 65, which is
a multiple of 13.
Characters throughout the movie continually remind us that Neo is
still only human. At the beginning the agents say, "Only human." The Merovingian
says, "You see, he is just a man," when Neo's hand bleeds briefly. The Architect
tells Neo, "You remain irrevocably human..." Whether these are meant to guide
the viewer or mislead is debated.
In the Architect scene, some of the screens show images from Neo
waking up in the real world. It is unclear how these images supposedly from
outside the Matrix could be known to the Architect inside of the Matrix,
unless perhaps the Architect can read Neo's memories.
The
Unix
utilities
Nmap
and
sshnuke
appear during one scene, where they
are used to shut down a power station. It is interesting that real tools
were used in this movie.
Cast
The cast of
The Matrix Reloaded
is largely the same as
The Matrix , with only minor additions.
The character of "Tank" from
The Matrix
did not return,
reportedly due to actor
Marcus
Chong 's salary demands and conflicts with the Wachowski brothers. The
character's role of ship pilot is taken over by newcomer Link, Tank's brother-in-law.
In passing, Tank is mentioned to have been killed, but no details are provided.
Actress
Gloria Foster
died during the editing. Her role
of "The
Oracle "
is reprised by actress
Mary Alice , here and also in subsequent
sequels and video games. Her change of appearance is specifically addressed
as a programmatic quirk in
Enter the Matrix .
Additionally,
Aaliyah
was originally cast to play the part of "Zee"
until her untimely death in the summer of 2001.
Christine Anu
as
Kali
Helmut Bakaitis
as
The Architect
Monica Bellucci
as
Persephone
Daniel Bernhardt
as
Agent
Johnson
Essie Davis
as Maggie
Sing Ngai
as
Seraph
(as
Collin Chou )
Laurence Fishburne
as
Morpheus
Gloria Foster
as The
Oracle
Nona M. Gaye
as
Zee
Malcolm Kennard
as
Abel
David A. Kilde
as
Agent
Jackson
Randall Duk Kim
as
The Keymaker
Harry J. Lennix
as Commander Lock
Matt McColm
as
Agent
Thompson
Carrie-Anne Moss
as
Trinity
Robyn Nevin
as Councillor Dillard
David No
as
Cain
Harold Perrineau Jr.
as
Link
Jada Pinkett Smith
as
Niobe
Adrian Rayment
as Twin #2 (see
ghost )
Neil Rayment
as Twin #1 (see
ghost )
Rupert Reid
as Lock's Lieutenant
Keanu Reeves
as
Neo
(aka
Thomas A. Anderson , see
Aeon
for info
on
The One )
Frankie Stevens
as
Tirant
Steve Vella
as
Malachi
Clayton Watson
as
The Kid
Hugo Weaving
as
Agent
Smith
Cornel West
as Councillor West
Bernard White
as Rama-Kandra (see
Rama Chandra )
Lambert Wilson
as
Merovingian
Anthony Wong
as Ghost (see
ghost )
Anthony Zerbe
as Councillor
Hamann
External links
Wikiquote
has a
collection of quotes by or about
The
Matrix Reloaded .
The Matrix Reloaded
Official Website
( http://www.thematrix.com/ )
Internet Movie
Database entry on
The Matrix Reloaded
( http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0234215 )
The
Many Meanings of
The Matrix
( http://www.integralnaked.org/talk.aspx?id=205 ) ,
Larry Wachowski
in a dialogue with
Ken Wilber .
Newsweek:
The Matrix Makers
( http://www.msnbc.com/news/850165.asp )
- A look behind the scenes at the
Matrix
sequels (possible spoilers).
MATRIX 2
Bullet Time was just the beginning. F/x guru John Gaeta
reinvents cinematography with
The Matrix Reloaded .
By Steve Silberman
I'm sitting in a former naval barracks in Alameda, California,
watching the digital assembly of a human face. Bones, teeth, glistening eyes.
Layer upon layer. Finally the hair and skin, the creases and tiny scars that
make us who we are. The face blinks and breathes. Then it snarls, and my
skin crawls.
Agent Smith is back, and he's pissed.
Matthew Welch
You'll be seeing a lot of Agent Smith this year. Neo's man-in-black nemesis
returns on May 15 in The Matrix Reloaded, the continuing story of a young
hacker who learns that the apparently real world is an elaborate computer
simulation. In November, a second sequel,
Matrix Revolutions ,
will take up where
Reloaded's
nail-biting climax leaves off.
Things have changed since 1999. In the last shot of the
original film, Neo, played by ex-slacker Keanu Reeves, flew up out of the
frame, demonstrating that his mental abilities had become stronger than the
enslaving delusion of the Matrix. Now he's a full-fledged superhero, soaring
over the skyline at thousands of miles an hour and making a rescue as trucks
collide head-on. The bad news: Agent Smith, played by Hugo Weaving, is a
rogue virus in the Matrix, able to multiply himself at will. And the last
free human city, Zion, in a cave near the Earth's core, is under attack.
What hasn't changed is the dark, richly nuanced aesthetic
of brothers Larry and Andy Wachowski, a pair of Hollywood outsiders who wrote
and directed what became the most successful movie in the history of Warner
Bros. The Wachowskis had always conceived of Neo's odyssey as a trilogy,
but to release both sequels months apart - plus the videogame
Enter
the Matrix
and an anime series called
The Animatrix
-
required a year of intense collaboration, as the scripts, sets, and shot
designs all evolved together.
The Matrix
raised the bar for action films
by introducing new levels of realism into stunt work and visual effects.
For
Reloaded
and
Revolutions , the Wachowskis dreamed
up action sequences that were so over-the-top they would require their special-effects
supervisor, John Gaeta, to reinvent cinematography itself.
Matthew Welch
So what does a visual effects supervisor do to follow
up the
Matrix
trilogy? Gaeta says his next project will be "some
combination of
Akira , Busby Berkeley, and
Apocalypse Now ."
With four Academy Award nominations to their credit, the members of the
core Matrix team reconvened in February 2000 at a secret location near the
beach outside of Los Angeles. There - at the home base of Eon, the Wachowskis'
production company - Gaeta, concept artists Geof Darrow and Steve Skroce,
production designer Owen Patterson, producer Grant Hill, and the brothers
brainstormed around "the most James Bond table you've ever seen," Gaeta says.
Hanging above it were pulldown screens linked to 3-D workstations so that
art and designs could be discussed collectively. Over the next year, a river
of drawings, storyboards, and stage plans flowed into Eon's asset-management
network, which was christened (what else?) the Zion Mainframe.
For visual ideas and inspiration, the group cranked up
Alien ,
2001 ,
Vertigo ,
Apocalypse Now ,
Koyaanisqatsi , and
20,000 Leagues Under the Sea ,
along with documentary footage of car crashes, robotics manufacturing, 19th-century
submarines, glassblowers at work, the drilling of the Chunnel, the heavyweight
bouts of Rocky Marciano, and the explosion of the
Hindenburg .
Madhouse, the makers of
Akira
and
Metropolis , prepared
a custom reel of explosions of various types and sizes for the Wachowskis,
who were particularly interested in the ways that natural phenomena - weather,
water, flames - are depicted in anime as intelligent obstacles, characters
in their own right.
As the team tossed ideas around for one hellacious fight
scene that became known in-house as the Burly Brawl, Gaeta realized that
the innovative technology he and his crew developed for
The Matrix's
ultra slo-mo action sequences would not be sufficient to bring the Wachowskis'
new vision to the screen. Those oft-imitated shots - now universally known
as Bullet Time - required serpentine arrays of meticulously aligned cameras,
and months of planning, for a brief scene featuring two or three actors.
In the Burly Brawl, super-Neo would battle more than 100 Agent Smiths in
an extended orgy of kung fu orchestrated by crack martial-arts choreographer
Yuen Woo-Ping.
To develop the technology needed for the Burly Brawl, Eon
and Warner Bros. launched ESC, a visual-effects skunk works in an old naval
base across the bay from San Francisco. ESC ultimately produced more than
a thousand visual-effects shots for the two sequels, and the company has
operated in stealth mode until now. The word
Matrix
didn't even
appear on the scripts' title pages; instead, they were tagged with a code
name,
The Burly Man .
For
Reloaded's
blowout chase sequence - Trinity
and a character called the Keymaker haul ass on a motorcycle to the nearest
landline, past carloads of marauding bad guys - ESC constructed a quarter
mile of new freeway on the naval base. Eventually, Gaeta enlisted more than
500 digital artists from a roster of cutting-edge effects vendors (including
Sony Pictures Imageworks, Animal Logic, Tippett Studio, BUF Compagnie, and
Giant Killer Robots) to create everything from shimmering swarms of Matrix
code to thousands of vengeful robot "squiddies" burrowing toward Zion.
But the Burly Brawl became Gaeta's personal obsession. Like
many in the film industry, he has been talking for years about the promise
of virtual cinematography, a confluence of technologies that would allow
directors to sculpt actors' performances with the ease of tweaking a CAD
file. The traditional ways of doing this, however, reduce the world to the
kinds of data that computers easily understand, and the result often ends
up looking like a glorified videogame. That wouldn't work for the Burly Brawl,
a fight that erupts in a virtual prison indistinguishable from the real world.
"People get really preoccupied with, 'Are you going to top
yourselves this time? Are you really gonna come up with a
zinger ?'"
Gaeta tells me. "My job has nothing to do with making zingers. The point is
not to knock you over with a visual trick. The point is to be able to construct
events that are so complex, in terms of what human bodies need to do, that
the total 'effect' is
impossible choreography . 'My God! It looks
real, but it just can't be.'"
The showdown is set in a dingy courtyard in the vast cityscape
of the Matrix. A sign on a pole says NO BRAWLING. It will not be a good day
for that sign.
Neo and Agent Smith face off as crows flutter into the air.
Words are exchanged. Things do not go well. The agent makes a bold attempt
to load himself into Neo's body, but Neo's powers are too strong now. What
Smith needs is reinforcements, a cavalry. Being a virus, there are potential
recruits everywhere.
Warner Bros.
Scene from
Reloaded : The beginning of the
Burly Brawl.
If the dojo fight in
The Matrix
was a kung fu sonata, the Burly
Brawl is a symphony. Neo tears the sign from the ground and wields it as
a kendo sword, vaulting pole, and battering ram. A woman walking by can't
believe what she's seeing; suddenly her body is hijacked, she drops her grocery
bag, and another Smith charges into the fray. Whole battalions of Smiths
arrive, mount assaults, attack in waves, scatter, regroup, and head back
for more. (At ESC, one massive pile-on was dubbed the "Did someone drop a
quarter?" shot.) In the thick of it, Neo is dancing, chucking black-tied
bodies skyward, pivoting around the signpost, and using shoulders as stepping-stones
over the raging river of whup-ass.
Fans will wear out their remotes replaying the scene on
DVD, but what they won't see, even riding the Pause button, is a transition
that happens early on. When Neo and Agent Smith walk into the courtyard,
they are the real Reeves and Weaving. But by the time the melee is in full
effect, everyone and everything on the screen is computer-generated - including
the perspective of the camera itself, steering at 2,000 miles per hour and
screaming through arcs that would tear any physical camera apart.
This is virtual cinematography, but the most impressive
thing about the Burly Brawl is that it doesn't look virtual at all. The digital
faces of Reeves and Weaving could get past a flank of security guards, and
the buildings surrounding the courtyard look dreary and lived-in - the grimy,
unmistakable patina of the real.
Effects designers have been swapping CG faces onto the heads
of stunt doubles for more than a decade, but typically, these faces were
seen for only brief moments, from afar, or were occluded by other effects,
like flames or smoke. Previous attempts to render faces with enough verisimilitude
so that a camera could linger produced virtual visages that had a plastic,
androidal quality, like the all-digital actors in
Final Fantasy: The
Spirits Within . Because the faces of Reeves and Weaving are so familiar
to the audience - and because, as ESC's effects supervisor Kim Libreri puts
it, "our brains are hardwired from day one to look at human faces and not
be deceived" - Gaeta's job was that much harder.
The standard way of simulating the world in CG is to build
it from the inside out, by assembling forms out of polygons and applying
computer-simulated textures and lighting. The ESC team took a radically different
path, loading as much of the real world as possible into the computer first,
building from the outside in. This approach, known as image-based rendering,
is transforming the effects industry.
Warner Bros.
Scene from
Reloaded : Trinity slams the door.
A similar evolution has already occurred in music. The first electronic
keyboards sought to re-create a piano's acoustic properties by amassing sets
of rules about the physics of keys, hammers, and strings. The end result
sounded like
a synthesizer. Now DJs and musicians sample and morph the recorded
sounds of actual instruments.
Instead of synthesizing the world, Gaeta cloned it. To make
the Burly Brawl, he would have to build the Matrix.
At the end of a desolate street in Alameda, giant cargo
cranes rise out of the bay - the same towering machines that inspired the
design of the Imperial Walkers in
The Empire Strikes Back . When
Gaeta and his crew moved here two years ago, there was no heat or air-conditioning,
and the hundreds of bunks occupying the main building had been soaked in
a flood. Now 270 animators, painters, pyrotechnicians, rotoscopists, and
coders buzz around the cinder-block rooms. The hallway between the Trinity
Conference Room and the Zion Theater is lined with original prints by the
resident artists, 80 percent of them eager ESCapees from other effects houses,
notably Pixar and Industrial Light & Magic.
Still boyish at 37, with the scruffy elegance of a rock
prodigy who has stayed relevant, Gaeta sports long sideburns that are themselves
a kind of visual effect, sculpting his jawline. He speaks with an ironic
inflection, elongating vowels so that when he says " Re-loo-oaded "
or " Revo-luuu-tions, " the titles come with air quotes preinstalled.
Growing up on Long Island, Gaeta was a classic high school
underachiever until he discovered photography and what he calls a "dark universe
perfection" in the films of Stanley Kubrick and Ridley Scott. After graduating
from NYU film school in 1990, he became a production assistant on
Saturday
Night Live . Then a friend told him that Douglas Trumbull - the effects
guru behind
2001
and
Blade Runner
- was launching
a new studio in an old textile mill in western Massachusetts. It was here,
at a company called Mass.Illusion, that Gaeta met his mentors and embarked
on a quest to seamlessly integrate the digital and the real.
"I was awestruck working with Doug because he was so fearless,"
Gaeta recalls. "He'd say, 'This camera doesn't exist yet, but we're going
to make one. This screen doesn't exist, but we'll build it. Then we'll invent
a new format.' Doug was innovating constantly."
Diane Piepol, a digital artist who worked at Mass.Illusion,
says Gaeta was equally at home with the camera jocks and the computer geeks:
"He brought more long-range technical investigation to his job than I had
ever seen. Usually you have the digital people on one side and the camera
people on the other, and they don't talk much. But John was fluid in both
worlds."
The first step in bringing real objects into the virtual
world was to obtain precise measurements of everything in the frame. To render
an existing city block, CG artists would seek out blueprints of each building
so they could generate wireframe models to scale. When work began on 1998's
What Dreams May Come , Gaeta and effects supervisor Joel
Hynek headed off to Glacier National Park in Montana, the setting of that
film's visual centerpiece - a vision of heaven as a luminous, still-damp
oil painting. At night, Gaeta hiked into the mountains with a laser-radar
rig to survey the rock faces.
Meanwhile, the Wachowskis were struggling to convince Warner
Bros. to green-light
The Matrix . Action-movie mogul Joel Silver
was enthusiastic about the script, but with its gnostic allegories, Baudrillardian
subtexts, and Philip K. Dick mindfuckery, it was no
Die Hard With a
Modem . To clinch the deal, the brothers hired Darrow and Skroce, two
underground comic book illustrators, to draw up art and elaborate storyboards.
There was one element in the script, however, that could never be adequately
represented with static images: Bullet Time.
This was the Wachowskis' name for a visual effect that didn't
exist yet: an action sequence that slowed time to a sinuous crawl and then
cranked it back up to normal speed as the camera pivoted rapidly around it.
It was the kind of challenge Gaeta had been waiting for. When he read the
script, he pleaded with an effects producer at Mass.Illusion, "You have to
get me this gig." Gaeta's prototype was so impressive, it got him the job,
and the studio agreed to make the movie.
To make Bullet Time happen, Gaeta merged two techniques
with roots in the earliest days of photography.
In the mid-19th century, another group of geeks had wrestled
with the task of relating the physical to the virtual: mapmakers.
After the invention of the daguerreotype, a cartographer
named Aimé Laussedat suggested stringing cameras to kites and lofting
them over Paris. By taking multiple exposures of the landscape from different
angles and triangulating them with clever algorithms, it was possible to
generate a topographical map from flat images, similar to the way your brain
generates depth perception from two separate 2-D inputs: your eyes. Laussedat's
breakthrough was christened photogrammetry.
Fast-forward to the early 1990s, when another Frenchman,
Arnauld Lamorlette, the R&D director for design firm BUF Compagnie, faced
a problem similar to Laussedat's. Industrial clients examining buildings
for structural flaws needed to see Paris from above. Parisian airspace, however,
is tightly controlled; nonmilitary aircraft may fly over the city only on
Bastille Day. Lamorlette found that by morphing between two photographs,
he could generate a 3-D model: digital photogrammetry. BUF employed the technique
to help director Michel Gondry create a music video for the Rolling Stones.
Its radical camera moves - zipping through a room full of partygoers frozen
in midmotion - caused a sensation in Europe. (BUF also used this method to
make a Gap ad called "Khakis Swing" that was most Americans' first glimpse
of the effect.)
Gaeta and Kim Libreri pumped up this technique for
The
Matrix : By triggering a circular array of 122 still cameras in sequence,
they were able to simulate the action of a variable-speed movie camera that
tracked completely around its subject. Because the cameras located on one
side of the array were visible to those on the other side, however, they
also needed a way to computer-generate photo-realistic sets so they could
paint the cameras out of the frame.
Gaeta found the answer in 1997, at the annual visual effects
convention Siggraph, where he saw a short film by Paul Debevec, George Borshukov,
and Yizhou Yu called
The Campanile Movie . The film - a flyover
of the UC Berkeley campus - was generated entirely from still photographs.
Like the 19th-century cartographers, Debevec and his team derived the precise
shapes and contours of the landscape by triangulating the visual information
in still photographs. Then they generated 3-D models based on this geometry,
but instead of applying computer-generated textures to the models, they wrapped
them with photographs of the buildings themselves. The trick worked spectacularly
well. Instead of resembling something out of
Toy Story , the
buildings and the surrounding hills in
The Campanile Movie
looked
absolutely real.
"When I saw Debevec's movie, I knew that was the path,"
Gaeta told me. To walk that path as far as the Wachowskis needed him to go,
he hired Borshukov, who had written the algorithms used to render the images
at Berkeley. Borshukov, Libreri, and a visionary effects engineer named Dan
Piponi became Gaeta's core posse at Mass.Illusion, a collaboration that continues
to this day at ESC.
"John, Kim, Dan, and I all have this passion for sampling
the real," Borshukov says. "By extracting information from the real world,
you preserve all the richness and variation, the noise, the unrepetitiveness,
the subtleties - the things that are so hard and expensive for computer graphics
to achieve. Eventually, computer graphics will be able to build these things.
We're jumping the gun by 10 years."
Creating the Burly Brawl, however, is a taller order than
inventing Bullet Time. To portray Neo in hand-to-hand combat with more than
100 Agent Smiths in the old way would have required Escher-like tangles of
crisscrossing still-camera rigs and years of compositing. What Gaeta needed
was a virtual camera that could fly through the 3-D scene - as free from
the laws of space and time as Neo is from the physical laws of the Matrix.
"The concept of Bullet Time had to graduate to the true
technology it suggested," he says. "For
Reloaded , we had to
finish the job so that we could get relentless, uninterrupted, and editable
chunks of Neo in the zone."
This virtual camera needed to be able to see behind and
around things, and to know what was obscured by any particular angle, so
that if the Wachowskis wanted to try different passes through the Burly Brawl,
the entire scene would already be in ESC's computers, captured in code, as
real as if it was a physical set. Unlike a physical set, however, the scene
would be moving - alive with the rage of hundreds of men fighting in top
form. Bullet Time squared.
The process of creating multiple Smiths was fairly straightforward.
First Gaeta and his crew turned a 250,000-square-foot hangar in Alameda into
the biggest motion-capture dojo in the world. The punishment was relentless
for Yuen Woo-Ping's army of black belts; between the sequels and the videogame,
they did hundreds of takes a day. Buffed out with CG muscle, tailored in
simulated suits, and animated with collision data obtained from digital crash-test
dummies, the torsos of Yuen's warriors were transformed in postproduction
into wave upon wave of attacking Hugo Weaving clones.
Then came the real work.
While the topography of the human face is the hardest to
simulate digitally, it turns out to be one of the easiest to map photogrammetrically.
It has fewer shadows and occlusions than, say, the city of Paris. The language
of the face communicates maximum information through the subtlest inflections.
The interfaces of our souls are designed to be read in a heartbeat.
To replace the faces of Yuen's men with that of Agent Smith
- while retaining the level of photorealism that the Wachowskis demanded
- Gaeta and his team built a system for sampling the real at a higher resolution
than had ever before been attempted, dubbing this process universal capture.
Gaeta began by making lo-res laser scans of Reeves' and
Weaving's heads in relaxed, neutral poses. These scans furnished the basic
geometry upon which succeeding layers of real-world data would be applied.
Then Reeves and Weaving each sat down on a stage in front
of five Sony HDW-900 video cameras. The massive datastreams from these cameras
- one gigabyte a second - were treated like holy water; even the cameras'
color-correction software was disabled to prevent any loss of data. Instead
of recording to tape, which requires compression, the cameras were modified
to send uncompressed data to a bank of high-end PCs that stored it on a huge
disk array. "The scene in that room was surreal," Gaeta recalls. "There's
this guy onstage, and his face is surrounded with this fucking
Cape
Canaa-averal
backup system."
As Reeves and Weaving acted out a range of facial expressions
for their rumble in the courtyard, the cameras captured each twitch of muscle
and every change in the blood flow to the skin. This data was then analyzed
with algorithms written by Borshukov that tracked each individual pixel as
it moved from frame to frame. The tiny irregularities in the actors' faces
actually made this job easier, giving Borshukov's algorithms distinctive
points in space to grab on to as he reconstructed the actors' features moving
through time.
The old Bullet Time rig had produced the illusion that reality
was a big CAD file, but it was just an effect, not a three-dimensional world
that could be manipulated as easily as if it really
was
a CAD file.
The universal-capture rig enabled ESC to smuggle the faces of Neo and Agent
Smith across the border between the digital and the real, into Gaeta's Matrix
- a zone where skyscrapers, skin, flames, and marauding machines are all
re-created equal.
What this means for moviemaking is that once a scene is
captured, filmmakers can fly the virtual camera through thousands of "takes"
of the original performance - and from any angle they want, zooming in for
a close-up, dollying back for the wide shot, or launching into the sky. Virtual
cinematography.
How deep did the rabbit hole go? A cast of each actor's
head was sent to a company called Arius 3D, makers of ultrahigh-resolution
scanners employed in 1999 to archive the works of Michelangelo. The Arius
scanner is accurate down to 25 microns - the diameter of a mold spore. To
get the clothing simulations just right, ESC sent swatches of Reeves' black
cassock and Weaving's jacket to a company called Surface Optics, which builds
devices to measure a property of light called the bidirectional reflectance
distribution function. Surface Optics happened to have one machine on hand
scheduled to ship to Lockheed Martin a month later, where it was to be assigned
to its usual task: evaluating the reflectivity of paint on stealth bombers.
This ocean of information - combined with even more real-world
data about the light levels on the set - was poured into the rendering program
of choice at ESC: mental ray. (The German firm that created it won an Academy
Award for technical achievement in March.) What emerged is real enough to
fool Morpheus: effects that are mind-blowing precisely because they're transparent
- a world that looks like the world.
For years, employees at ILM have joked that George Lucas
is pushing to create virtual cinematography so that he can do away with living
actors. It is a point of pride at ESC that its methods are designed to augment
the subtleties of human performance, not replace them.
"We're not interested in making Keanu say things he hasn't
said," Borshukov tells me. "Our aim was to preserve the most minute aspects
- every smirk, every frown - of how Keanu made Neo real."
The ability to create photorealistic virtual human beings
raises unsettling questions, especially in conjunction with the means to
cut-and-paste them into any landscape. These questions troubled Gaeta himself
so much that, a few years ago, he wrote a letter alerting President Clinton
to the fact that such technology could be used for purposes of mass deception.
(The letter was never answered.)
As it happens, one group deeply interested in the new breed
of hyperrealistic CG is the military. Darpa is fast-tracking image-based
rendering and lighting for use in immersive battle simulations. In 1999,
the US Army launched the Institute for Creative Technologies at USC, where
Paul Debevec - Borshukov's former mentor at Berkeley - is now the head of
graphics R&D.
Gaeta recognizes the paradox. "You have these paranoid films
about the Matrix depicting how people are put in a mental prison by misusing
this technology, and you have the military constructing something like the
actual Matrix. Or maybe
our
technology will become the actual Matrix,
and we have inadvertently spilled the vial of green shit out onto the planet."
Neo and Gaeta have something in common. In a world of seductive
illusions, they became revolutionaries by championing the prodigious chaos
of the actual world. It's a role Gaeta accepts with a healthy dose of Wachowskian
irony. Before I leave ESC headquarters, I ask Gaeta where the brothers got
their codename for the film.
" The Burly Man
is the title of the script on
Barton Fink's desk. We all loved that movie," he explains. "The lesson at
the end of it is that after all these ordeals, all this agony, you finally
arrive at the culmination of your entire life's work - and it's a wrestling
picture.
"That's what
The Matrix
is."
How to Be a Real Hollywood Player
And the Oscar for Best Actress in a Supporting Game goes to
Jada
Pinkett Smith!
by Evan Ratliff
Warner Bros.
In
Reloaded , the
Matrix
sequel, Jada Pinkett Smith
plays the supporting role of Niobe, a hovercraft pilot. But in
Enter
the Matrix , the spinoff videogame, she's the star. Both will be released
on May 15 - a synergistic first for Hollywood. ( GoldenEye 007 ,
a well-received shooter, came out a full two years after the movie hit theaters.)
The movie industry has promised multimedia convergence ever since Atari's
Star Wars
hit arcades 20 years ago. But with minimal participation
from actors and directors, franchised game incarnations have largely ended
up as flubs that look and play like marketing ploys.
Enter the Wachowski brothers, avid gamers who view the two
Matrix
sequels and the game as a single project. All three
titles share the same sets, crews, costume designers, choreographers, and
- most crucially - actors. Each of the 25 main characters in the film reprise
some version of their role for the game, and none more than Niobe. She and
weapons expert Ghost (Anthony Wong) are the only playable characters.
While the typical spinoff might require actors to reread
a few lines or submit to a scan, Pinkett Smith worked as hard on the game
as on the movie that spawned it. She had to memorize game scripts several
times longer than their film equivalents. She's starring in an additional
hour of the movie, which will appear not in theaters but as cut-scene interludes
in
Enter the Matrix . And to get the gameplay right, she had
to endure six months' worth of extra motion capture, face mapping, and full-body
scanning. The result, she says, was maddening. "You had first unit, second
unit, third unit, and then the game stuff."
That's a first for videogame production. "I could have hired
some cheap actors to do it," says David Perry, whose company, Shiny Entertainment,
developed the game. "But the Wachowskis didn't want to hear that. They were
like, are you kidding me?"
For actors, shooting on a game set can be a trying experience:
Game producers have to film from all angles to create realistic action. The
motion capture set also required pretend-driving foam-and-wire cars, reacting
to nonexistent explosions, and fleeing from make-believe agents. "It was
like being a kid again," she says. "Everything had to be created through
my imagination."
It wasn't easy, but the result, she predicts, will vault
game acting into Hollywood's next big thing. "People are going to wanna be
down," she says, noting that husband Will Smith is already investigating
a game tie-in for his next movie. "That's the way you are going to have to
do it from now on."
That's fine for Pinkett Smith - as long as she's working
with the masters. "I know that if the Wachowskis made another game," she
says, "it would be something that's never been done before."
The 10 Movies That Rocked My World
by John Gaeta
1.
2001: A Space Odyssey (Kubrick)
The ultimate application of visual effects by the director who has most inspired
my industry.
2.
Metropolis (Lang) Metropolis (Rintaro)
Fritz Lang's visionary approach to architecture and set design is as contemporary
today as it was in 1926. The 2002 remake written by the anime master responsible
for Akira is the most sophisticated merger of 2-D and 3-D animation methods
I've ever seen. Plus, antirobot rebellion is supercool.
3.
Alien (Scott)
Ridley Scott is a god when it comes to setting a tone. H. R. Giger's textures
and atmosphere in this film are among the strongest and strangest visual
backdrops you'll ever find. (A close second: Blade Runner.)
4.
Koyaanisqatsi Powaqqatsi (Reggio)
These movies make me hallucinate, literally. I am obsessed with the visuals
and consult them endlessly. Stylized culture, nature, and surreal patterns
of this world - it's all there.
5.
Vertigo (Hitchcock)
The vertigo effect is completely original. If Alfred Hitchcock, Stanley Kubrick,
or Orson Welles were alive, they would transcend today's virtual cinema in
ways we could never imagine.
6.
The Seven Samurai (Kurosawa)
This is a truly immense story and perhaps the greatest action film ever created.
I first saw this when I was 15, and no Hollywood film I've seen since quite
tops it.
7.
The Mirror (Tarkovsky)
Symbolically charged imagery, autobiographical memory, and an inherent sense
of the spiritual nature of simple things will keep this work provocative
forever.
8.
Godzilla, King of the Monsters (Honda)
OK, so I like to see massive destruction delivered by gigantic, unforgiving
monsters. What's wrong with that? Humans need some competition.
9.
SlaughterHouse-Five (Hill)
Any film that displays the mind-bending technique of "telepathic schizophrenia"
- the ability to shift through time and space as a means of accepting absurd
realities like war and death - has got to be useful to the average Joe. Vonnegut
is a madman.
10.
Brazil (Gilliam)
If George Orwell did stand-up comedy, it would be like Terry Gilliam predicting
the future. Hilarious.
BONUS PICK:
The Omega Man (Sagal)
I threw this film into the mix because it seems relevant right now. Gun freak
number one, Charlton Heston, plays the only uncontaminated man left standing
after a biological attack on America. Observe as he "deals" with the protests
of the germed-up mutant citizenry. Has Dick Cheney seen this?
Contributing editor Steve Silberman (digaman@wiredmag.com)
wrote about bacterial communication in Wired 11.04.
Copyright
© 1993-2004 The Condé Nast Publications Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright
© 1994-2003 Wired Digital, Inc. All rights
reserved.
The Matrix
From Wikiquote
The Matrix
(1999)
(All links to people on this page point to their entries on Wikipedia.)
Written and directed by:
Andy Wachowski
&
Larry Wachowski
"Just between you and me, you don't believe it, do you? You don't
believe this guy is The One?"
"I think Morpheus knows things that I don't."
"I think we can handle one little girl. I sent two units, they're
bringing her down now."
"No, lieutenant, your men are already dead."
"That's impossible!"
" Wake up, Neo. "
"Follow the white rabbit."
"You ever have that feeling where you're not sure if you're awake
or still dreaming?"
"Yeah, all the time. It's called
mescaline ."
" The
Trinity? ... Jesus ... I just thought ... you were
a guy."
"Most guys do."
"I know why you're here, Neo. I know what you've been doing...
why you hardly sleep, why you live alone, and why night after night, you
sit by your computer. You're looking for him. I know because I was once looking
for the same thing. And when he found me, he told me I wasn't really looking
for him. I was looking for an answer. It's the question that drives us. It's
the question that brought you here. You know the question, just as I did."
"What is the Matrix?"
"The answer is out there, Neo, and it's looking for you, and
it will find you if you want it to."
"This is insane. I can't do this!"
" You have a problem with authority, Mr. Anderson. "
It seems that you've been living two lives. One life, you're
Thomas A. Anderson, program writer for a respectable software company. You
have a social security number, pay your taxes, and you...help your landlady
carry out her garbage. The other life is lived in computers, where you go
by the hacker alias "Neo" and are guilty of virtually every computer crime
we have a law for. One of these lives has a future, and one of them does
not.
"We're willing to wipe the slate clean, give you a fresh start.
All that we're asking in return is your cooperation in bringing a known terrorist
to justice."
"Well ... that sounds like a pretty good deal. But I think I
may have a better one. How about, I give you the finger ... and you give
me my phone call."
"What use is a phone call if you are unable to speak?"
"You have been down there Neo, you know that road, you know exactly
where it ends. And I know that's not where you want to be."
"I imagine that right now you're feeling a bit like Alice, tumbling
down the rabbit hole."
"You have the look of a man who accepts what he sees because
he is expecting to wake up. Ironically, that's not far from the truth."
" Unfortunately, no one can be
told
what The
Matrix is. You have to
see it for yourself . "
"I'm trying to free your mind, Neo. But I can only show you the
door. You're the one that has to walk through it."
" Take the Red Pill… and see how deep The Rabbit Hole
goes. "
"The Matrix is the world that has been pulled over your eyes
to blind you from the truth."
"Buckle your seatbelt, Dorothy, 'cause Kansas is going bye-bye."
"Have you ever had a dream, Neo, that you were so sure was real?
What if you were unable to wake from that dream? How would you know the difference
between the dream world and the real world?"
" Welcome to the real world. "
"Am I dead?"
"Far from it."
"Why do my eyes hurt?"
"You've never used them before."
" What is real? How do you define
real ? If you're
talking about what you can feel, what you can smell, what you can taste and
see, then real is simply, electrical signals interpreted by your brain. "
"Welcome to the desert of the real."
"Throughout human history, we have been dependent on machines
to survive. Fate, it seems, is not without a sense of irony."
"I didn't say that it would be easy, Neo. I just said that it
would be the truth"
"I know kung fu."
Morpheus: " Don't think you are, know you are. "
"Do you believe that my being stronger or faster has anything
to do with my muscles in this place? Do you think that's air you're breathing
now?"
"Stop trying to hit me and hit me"
"There is a difference between knowing the path and walking the
path."
"You have to let it all go, Neo. Fear, doubt, and disbelief.
Free your mind."
" Whoa "
"The body cannot live without the mind."
"Good shit, huh? It's good for two things: degreasing engines
and killing brain cells."
"I know what you're thinking, 'cause right now I'm thinking the
same thing. Actually, I've been thinking it ever since I got here: Why, oh
why, didn't I take the
Blue
pill?"
"How do the machines know what Tastee Wheat tasted like? Maybe
they got it wrong. Maybe what I think Tastee Wheat tasted like actually tasted
like oatmeal, or tuna fish. That makes you wonder about a lot of things.
You take chicken, for example: maybe they couldn't figure out what to make
chicken taste like, which is why chicken tastes like everything!"
" To deny our own impulses is to deny the very thing that
makes us human. "
"I know this steak doesn't exist. I know that when I put it in
my mouth, the Matrix is telling my brain that it is juicy and delicious.
After nine years, you know what I realize? —
Ignorance is bliss.
"
" There is no spoon. "
"I'd ask you to sit down, but, you're not going to anyway. And
don't worry about the vase."
" What's really going to bake your noodle later on is,
would you still have broken it if I hadn't said anything? "
" Deja vu. "
Smith: "I want everything."
Morpheus: "Would that include a bullet from this gun?"
" Believe it or not , you piece of shit — you're
still going to burn! "
"Never send a human to do a machine's job."
" My name… is… Neo! "
"Mr. Wizard! Get me the hell out of here!"
"'I'd like to share a revelation that I've had during my time
here. It came to me when I tried to classify your species. I realized that
you're not actually mammals. Every mammal on this planet instinctively develops
a natural equilibrium with the surrounding environment, but you humans do
not. You move to an area, and you multiply, and multiply, until every natural
resource is consumed. The only way you can survive is to spread to another
area. There is another organism on this planet that follows the same pattern.
A virus.
Human beings are a disease, a cancer of this planet. You
are a plague… and we are the cure. "
"So what do you need? Besides a miracle."
"Guns. Lots of guns."
"Neo ... nobody has ever done this before."
"I know. That's why it's going to work."
" Dodge this! "
"I know you're out there. I can feel you now. I know that you're
afraid… afraid of us. You're afraid of change. I don't know the future. I
didn't come here to tell you how this is going to end.
I came here
to tell how it's going to begin. "
" I'm going to show these people what you don't want them
to see. I'm going to show them ... a world without rules or controls, borders
or boundaries. A world where anything is possible. Where we go from there
is a choice I leave to you. "
See also:
The Matrix Reloaded ("Matrix 2")
-
The Matrix Revolutions ("Matrix 3")
Cast
Neo (Thomas A. Anderson):
Keanu
Reeves
Morpheus:
Laurence Fishburne
Trinity:
Carrie-Anne Moss
Agent Smith:
Hugo Weaving
Cypher:
Joe Pantoliano
Oracle:
Gloria Foster
Mouse:
Matt Doran
External Links
Official
Matrix Site
( http://whatisthematrix.warnerbros.com/ )
|
Direct
Link to Philosophy Section
( http://whatisthematrix.warnerbros.com/rl_cmp/new_phil_main.html )
Review
& Analysis of
The Matrix
( http://ofcs.rottentomatoes.com/click/movie-1086960/reviews.php?critic=movies&sortby=default&page=2&rid=106867 )
Review of
The Matrix
( http://dvdmg.com/matrix.shtml )
The Matrix
at Rotten Tomatoes
( http://www.rottentomatoes.com/m/TheMatrix-1086960/ )
The Matrix
at IMDb
The Many Meanings
of
The Matrix
Larry Wachowski
The Matrix
trilogy
is the most successful cinematic venture of the past several decades.
Together,
The Matrix ,
The Matrix Reloaded , and
The Matrix
Revolutions
have grossed over three billion dollars worldwide, and the
story continues with
The Animatrix ,
The Matrix Comics , and
The Matrix Online .
The attention of audiences worldwide
has been captured by the mind-bending storyline of these films and their
phenomenal special effects, but the perennial question remains: What does
it all mean?
Larry and Andy Wachowski, the writers and directors of
The Matrix
trilogy, have been reluctant to share their interpretation of the films from
day one, fearing that whatever they said would turn into dogma.
However,
this did present a problem for Warner Brothers when producing
The Matrix
DVD boxed set (to be released this fall).
How do you have a director's commentary—a
must for any boxed set—when the directors refuse to comment?
What the Wachowskis did was to ask Ken Wilber and Cornel West to do the
director's commentary on all 3 films.
The following dialogue was recorded
right before Ken flew to LA to meet with Larry and Cornel and do the recorded
commentary.
Ken and Cornel recorded 15 hours of commentary, which has been
edited down to 6 hours to fit the 3 films, and the boxed set with all 3 films—and
6 hours of Ken and Cornel's commentary—will be released in October.
In the following dialogue, for the first time ever, we are lucky enough
to hear Larry publicly comment on this situation.
As he explains, the movies
were in many ways designed not to give answers, but to introduce questions.
What does it mean to be human?
What is reality?
Who is in control?
Does
God exist? and so on.
If he was to explain what he thought the movies meant,
he would be providing people with another concept of reality to either accept
or reject—either way, the open space created by the question would vanish.
The Matrix
injected mainstream culture with a straight shot of the
surreal, where fact and fiction and truth and appearance are not grounded
in a single pre-given "reality," because reality is simply what
appears
to be real.
In a dream, the dream is real—until you wake up.
In the Matrix,
the Matrix is real—until you wake up.
But what if you never woke up?
It's
questions like that that Larry wished to inspire, and he certainly succeeded.
As Ken points out, the first movie is fairly easy to grok: everything in
the Matrix is bad, everything outside of the Matrix is good.
Everyone inside
the Matrix is trapped, everyone outside the Matrix is free, and so on.
But
twenty minutes into part 2,
Reloaded , and the audience discovers that
the Oracle is a machine program, at which point most people go: um, what?
What had begun as a simple good guy/bad guy movie had just become a complex
piece of literature, with different levels of interpretation and a very sophisticated
model of reality.
Ken suggests that it's not until the last twenty minutes
of part 3,
Revolutions , that the key to the trilogy is revealed: although—and
perhaps because—Neo is physically blind, he sees the machines as luminous,
golden light—not quite how the "bad guys" are seen in most movies.
And yet
Neo is unmistakable in what he says to Trinity: "If you could see them as
I see them, they are all made of Light...."
Indeed, the machines represent
Spirit, but Spirit as alienated and therefore attacking....
Thus, as Ken summarizes a more integral interpretation (that takes into
account what is revealed in all three films), Zion represents body (filmed
in blue tint), the Matrix represents mind (green tint), and the machines—this
is the kicker revealed in part 3—represent spirit (golden tint).
For those
of you keeping track, this is indeed quite similar to the Great Nest of Being
as taught by the world's wisdom traditions, a spectrum of being and consciousness
reaching from body to mind to spirit.
Borrowing from the wisdom of Christian mysticism, "The flames of Hell are
but God's love denied," and so an alienated and dissociated spirit manifests
as an army of machines bent on destroying humankind.
It is only in the integration
of body, mind, and spirit that all three are redeemed and peace returns.
Ken and Larry go on to discuss their shared lifelong passion for philosophy.
As Ken points out, Larry is just about as philosophically/spiritually well
read as anyone you're likely to find, and
The Matrix
films are a stunning
tribute to that fact.
Larry said that when he found Ken's work, "It was
like Schopenhauer discovering the Upanishads."
Ken said that was grandiose
enough to quote.
Whereas Ken's books have been known to disrupt many a happy
home (my spouse won't shut up about quadrants!), Larry's love of philosophy
seems to run in the family: Larry and his father are reading
Sex, Ecology,
Spirituality
together.
Très cool !
This dialogue is meant to highlight what a more integral view of interpretation
involves.
In chapters 4 and 5 of
The Eye of Spirit , Ken suggests
that any work of art can be interpreted from at least four or five major
perspectives, none of which is privileged, all of which are important.
These
include: the artist's original intent (what did the artist himself or herself
mean by this artwork?); unconscious factors in the artist; the cultural background
of the artist; and the viewer response (what does the artwork mean to different
viewers of the artwork?).
[If you would like to download a pdf of these
two chapters, please
click here .]
The Wachowskis did not want their own original intent to overpower the equally
legitimate viewer response, and so they remained thunderously silent about
their original intent.
But, as this dialogue makes clear, Larry feels that
perhaps the time is now ripe for some more integral interpretations of
The
Matrix
trilogy that include all of those perspectives, which is why he
and Ken have begun having these types of more public dialogues and commentaries.
There is no single, definitive interpretation of
The Matrix , because
the sum total of perspectives is infinite .
But there are more integral
and less integral interpretations, and the integral interpretations—up to
this point— have been getting the short end of the stick, something this
dialogue is intended to end.
Once again, Integral Naked is proud to present a conversation you will truly
hear nowhere else.
We hope you enjoy the show....
transmission time:
31 minutes
keywords:
The Matrix ,
The Matrix Reloaded ,
The Matrix Revolutions , director's commentary,
Andy Wachowski, Warner Brothers, the Oracle, the machines, Agent Smith, Hegel,
Schopenhauer, the four quadrants (I/we/it/its), " What Is Integral? ,"
evolution, the Big Bang, your Original Face,
satori
(sudden spiritual
breakthrough), ontogeny, phylogeny, microgeny,
Sex, Ecology, Spirituality , Carrie-Anne Moss,
Keanu Reeves, Joel Silver, Stanley Kubrick, non-dual awareness, Los Angeles,
metrosexual,
A Theory of Everything .
most memorable moment:
"The whole key to
The Matrix
trilogy is given
in the last twenty minutes of the third film...."
Cyberpunk
.
Cyberpunk
(a
portmanteau
of
cybernetics
and
punk ) is a sub- genre
of
science fiction
which uses elements from the
hard-boiled
detective novel ,
film noir ,
Japanese
anime ,
and
post-modernist
prose. It describes the
nihilistic ,
underground side of the digital society which started to evolve in the last
two decades of the
twentieth century . Cyberpunk's
dystopian
world has been called the antithesis of the mid-twentieth century's
utopian
science
fiction visions, as typified by
Star Trek .
Contents
[ show hide ]
1 History
2
Notable precursors to the genre
3
Cyberpunk writers and works
3.1 Cyberpunk
films
3.2 Cyberpunk
games
4 Further
developments
5 Quote
6 See also
7 External
links
History
The term was originally coined in
1980
by
Minnesota
writer
Bruce Bethke
for his
short
story , "Cyberpunk," which was first published in Amazing Science Fiction
Stories, Volume 57, Number 4, November 1983, although it was quickly appropriated
as a label to be applied to the works of
Gibson ,
Rucker ,
and others.
In cyberpunk literature, much of the action takes place
online , in
cyberspace
- the clear borderline between the real and the
virtual
becomes blurred. A typical (though not
universal) feature of the genre is a direct connection between the human
brain and computer systems.
Cyberpunk's world is a sinister, dark place with
networked
computers that dominate every aspect of life. Giant multinational corporations
have replaced governments as centres of power. The
alienated
outsider's battle against a totalitarian system is a common theme in science
fiction; however, in conventional science fiction those systems tended to
be sterile, ordered, and state-controlled. In sharp contrast, Cyberpunk shows
the seamy underbelly of
corporatocracy , and the
Sisyphean battle
against their power by
disillusioned renegades.
Cyberpunk literature tends to be strongly dystopian and pessimistic.
It is often a metaphor for the present day, reflecting worries about large
corporations, corruption in governments, and
alienation .
Some cyberpunk authors also intend their works to act as warnings of possible
futures that may follow from current trends. As such, cyberpunk is often
written with the intention of disquieting the reader and calling him to action.
Cyberpunk stories are seen by some social theorists as fictional forecasts
of the evolution of the
Internet . The
virtual
world
of the Internet often appears in cyberpunk under various names,
including "cyberspace," the "Metaverse" (as seen in
Snow Crash ),
and the "Matrix" (originally from
Neuromancer ,
but further popularized by the roleplaying game
Shadowrun
and later by the movie
The Matrix ).
Notable precursors to the genre
George Orwell
( 1984 ,
1948 )
Alfred Bester
( The Stars My Destination (Tiger! Tiger!) ,
1956 )
William S. Burroughs
( Naked
Lunch ,
1959 ,
The Soft Machine ,
1961 )
Roger Zelazny
( Dream
Master
( He Who Shapes ))
Philip K. Dick
( Do Androids Dream of Electric
Sheep?
( Blade Runner ))
David Drake
( Lacey and His Friends ,
1974 )
John Brunner
( The Shockwave Rider ,
1975 )
John M. Ford
( Web of Angels ,
1980 )
K. W. Jeter
( Dr. Adder , published in the
1980s
but written
earlier)
Vernor Vinge
( True Names ,
1981 )
Cyberpunk writers and works
William Gibson
with his novel
Neuromancer
( 1984 ) is likely
the most famous writer connected with the term cyberpunk. He emphasized style,
character development and atmosphere over traditional science-fictional tropes,
and
Neuromancer
was awarded the
Hugo ,
Nebula , and
Philip K. Dick
Awards. Other famous
cyberpunk writers include
Bruce Sterling
(who functioned as cyberpunk's
chief ideologue with his
fanzine
Cheap
Truth ),
Rudy Rucker ,
Pat
Cadigan , and
Neal Stephenson .
Raymond Chandler
with his bleak, cynical worldview
and staccato prose strongly influenced the creators of the genre. The world
of cyberpunk is the dystopian, hopeless world of
film noir ,
but pushed just a little bit into the future.
Philip K. Dick
also had a strong influence on
the genre; his works contain recurring themes of social decay, artificial
intelligence, and blurred lines between reality and some kind of virtual
reality. Dick's characters are also marginalized more often than not.
Cyberpunk films
The film
Blade Runner
( 1982 ) based on
Philip K. Dick's
Do Androids Dream of Electric
Sheep?
is set in a dystopian future in which synthetic life forms
have substandard rights. The
Robocop
series has a more near-futuristic setting where at least one
corporation , Omni
Consumer Products, is an all-powerful presence in the city of
Detroit .
The short-lived television series
Max
Headroom
also introduced many viewers to the genre.
The Japanese
manga-ka
Masamune Shirow
often writes in the cyberpunk
style. His most notable stories within the genre include
Appleseed ,
Black Magic M-66 ,
and especially
Ghost in the Shell ,
which has been adapted
into a critically acclaimed
anime
that questions, on several levels, the delineation
between life and simulation.
Ghost in the Shell
has also been further
adapted as a related television anime series called
Ghost in the Shell: Stand
Alone Complex .
The most recent follow-up from
Ghost in the Shell
is the
2004
anime
film from
Mamoru Oshii
called
Innocence: Ghost in the Shell .
Beyond his obvious reference to
Blade Runner,
Innocence: Ghost
in the Shell
achieves a unique spatial atmosphere and is one of the
most philosophical tales related to
artificial life . The story, replete with historical
and literacy references, "does not hold the view that the world revolves
around the human race. Instead it concludes that all forms of life—humans,
animals and robots—are equal" (Mamoru Oshii).
A listing of cyberpunk films is as follows:
Escape from New York
(1981)
Escape from L.A.
(1996)
Blade Runner
(1982)
The Terminator
(1984)
Terminator 2: Judgment Day
(1991)
Terminator 3: Rise of the Machines
(2003)
Robocop
(1988)
Total Recall
(1990)
The Lawnmower Man
(1992)
The Lawnmower Man 2
(1996)
Johnny Mnemonic
(1995)
Ghost in the Shell
(1995)
Innocence: Ghost in the Shell
(Ghost in the Shell 2: Innocence) (2004)
Dark City
(1998)
The Matrix
(1999)
The Matrix Reloaded
(2003)
The Matrix Revolutions
(2003)
The Animatrix
(2003)
Minority Report
(2002)
Imposter
(2002)
Paycheck
(2003)
I, Robot
(2004)
A listing of cyberpunk TV shows is as follows:
Max Headroom
Dark Angel
Ghost in the Shell: Stand
Alone Complex
Cyberpunk games
At least two
role-playing games
called
Cyberpunk
exist:
Cyberpunk 2020 ,
by R. Talsorian Games, and
GURPS Cyberpunk ,
published by
Steve Jackson Games
as a module of the
GURPS
family
of role-playing games.
Cyberpunk 2020
was designed with the settings
of William Gibson's writings in mind, and to some extent with his approval,
unlike the perhaps more creative approach taken by
FASA
in producing
the
Shadowrun
game (see below). Both Cyberpunk-titled games are set in the near future,
in a world where
cybernetics
and computers are even more present than
today.
Another cyberpunk
RPG
included the (out of print) game
Cyberspace ,
released by
Iron Crown
( http://www.ironcrown.com/ )
enterprises.
Corporate corruption is a frequent theme in these games' adventures. The
characters often find themselves skirting the law, if not outright flouting
it. Recently, the
d20 Open Gaming Movement
has brought several new
entries into the arena, including Mongoose's
d20 Cyberpunk
and LRG's
Digital Burn.
In
1990 ,
in an odd re-convergence of cyberpunk art and reality, the
U.S. Secret Service
raided
Steve Jackson Games 's headquarters during
Operation Sundevil
and confiscated all their
computers. This was—allegedly—because the
GURPS Cyberpunk
sourcebook could be used to
perpetrate computer crime. That was, in fact, not the main reason for the
raid, but after the event it was too late to correct the public's impression.
Steve Jackson Games later won a lawsuit against the Secret Service, aided
by the freshly minted
Electronic Frontier Foundation .
(See the
GURPS Cyberpunk
page.)
Role-playing games have also produced one of the more unique takes
on the genre in the form of the
1989
game series
Shadowrun .
Here, the setting is still that of
the dystopic near future; however, it also incorporates heavy elements of
fantasy
literature and games, such as magic, spirits, elves, and dragons.
Shadowrun'' s
cyberpunk facets were modeled in large part on William Gibson's writings,
and the game's publishers,
FASA , have been accused by many as having directly ripped
off Gibson's work without even a statement of influence. Gibson, meanwhile,
has been reported to be less than impressed with the inclusion of elements
of
high fantasy
within clearly derivative setting
elements and storytelling techniques that he had pioneered. Nevertheless,
Shadowrun
has introduced many to the genre, and still remains
popular among gamers.
The trans-genre RPG
Torg
(published by
West End Games ) also included a variant cyberpunk
setting (or "cosm") called the
Cyberpapacy . This setting was originally
a medieval religious dystopia which underwent a sudden
Tech Surge .
Instead of corporations or corrupt governments, the Cyberpapacy was dominated
by the "False Papacy of Avignon". Instead of an
Internet ,
hackers roamed the "GodNet", a computer network rife with overtly religious
symbology, home to angels, demons, and other biblical figures.
Another notable RPG based on cyberpunk is
Uplink ,
Created by
Introversion Software
in
2002 , in which
the player works as a freelance hacker in 2010 and takes jobs from different
corporations. Missions range from stealing files from rival companies to the
final mission where the player tries either to destroy the Internet or save
it from complete destruction.
Netrunner
is a
collectible card game
introduced in
1996 , based on
the
Cyberpunk 2020
role-playing game.
Computer games have frequently used cyberpunk as sources of inspiration.
The most prevalent of these are the
System
Shock
series, the
Deus Ex
series and the Shadowrun video games.
A listing of Cyberpunk video/pc games:
Beneath a Steel Sky
Deus Ex
Deus Ex: Invisible War
Enter the Matrix
Flashback: The Quest for Identity
Hell: A Cyberpunk Thriller
Minority Report
Red Faction
Red Faction 2
Shadowrun
System Shock
System Shock 2
Total Recall
Further developments
An unusual sub-sub-genre of cyberpunk is
steampunk ,
which is set in an anachronistic
Victorian
environment, but with cyberpunk's bleak,
film noir
world view.
The Difference Engine
was probably
the novel that helped bring this genre to the forefront.
The emerging genre called
postcyberpunk
continues the preoccupation with the effects of computers, but without the
assumption of
dystopia
or the emphasis on
cybernetic
implants.
Cyberprep
is a term that reflects the flip side of
cyberpunk .
The early nineties saw the emergence of
biopunk ,
a derivative sub-genre building not on informational technology but on biology,
the other dominating scientific field of the end of the twentieth century.
Individuals are enhanced not by mechanical means, but by genetic manipulation
of their very chromosomes.
Paul Di Filippo
is seen as the most
prominent biopunk writer.
Quote
"Anything that can be done to a rat can be done to a human being.
We can do just about anything you can imagine to rats. And closing your eyes
and refusing to think about this won't make it go away.
That
is
cyberpunk." — Bruce Sterling
See also
Arcology
Biopunk
Corporatocracy
Cyberculture
Cyberpunk fashion
Cyberware
Cypherpunk
Steampunk
Technocracy
External links
alt.cyberpunk
usenet group
FAQ file
( http://18hz.com/cyberpunk.htm )
Cyberpunk
( http://www.infinityplus.co.uk/stories/cpunk.htm )
- The original Bruce Bethke story
Cyberpunk
Information Database
( http://project.cyberpunk.ru/idb/index.html/ )
Cyberpunk
R.I.P.
( http://www.wired.com/wired/archive/1.04/1.4_cyberpunk_pr.html )
- By Paul Saffo,
Wired Magazine
English
309K
( http://www.cwrl.utexas.edu/~tonya/cyberpunk/ )
- Cyberpunk Fiction
GURPS
Cyberpunk
website
( http://www.sjgames.com/gurps/books/Cyberpunk/ )
R. Talsorian
series on Cyberpunk film
( http://www.talsorian.com/cp_cinema_1.shtml/ )
West End Games official website
( http://www.westendgames.com/ )
Introversion Software official website
( http://www.introversion.co.uk/ )
Retrieved from " http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cyberpunk "
Categories :
Cyberpunk
Neuromancer
.
Published in
1984 ,
Neuromancer
was author
William Gibson 's first novel. It won
the 1984
Nebula award , the
Philip K. Dick Memorial Award
and
Hugo
Award
the following year. The novel is considered to be the first proper
cyberpunk
novel.
Spoiler warning :
Plot or ending
details follow.
Contents
[ show hide ]
1 Setting
2 Characters
3 Reference
4 See also
5 External
Links
Setting
Set in a
dystopian
future which many readers find chillingly
plausible, this book explored ideas such as
artificial intelligence ,
virtual reality ,
genetic engineering , multinational
corporations dominating
the world at the expense
of the
nation-state , and
cyberspace
(a computer network called the Matrix) long before these ideas were fashionable
in
popular culture . Gibson also explored the dehumanizing
effects of a world dominated by ubiquitous and cheap technology, writing
of a future where violence and the
free
market
are the only things upon which one may rely.
Characters
Case : The
anti-hero .
A drug addict and cyberspace
hacker
whose
nervous system
was burnt out by some of his business
partners who used a
Russian
mycotoxin
after he ripped them off. When
Armitage
offers to help him he jumps at
the offer.
Molly : A "Razorgirl" who is recruited along with
Case by Armitage. She has extensive body modifications, most notably blades
under her fingernails which can be used like claws, an optimized reflex system
and implanted lenses covering her eyesockets with added optical enhancements.
Armitage : He is (apparently) the main patron of the
crew. Formerly a
Green Beret
named Colonel Willis Corto, who took
part in the
Screaming Fist
operation. He was heavily injured
both physically and psychologically, and the "Armitage" personality was constructed
as part of experimental "computer-mediated psychotherapy" by
Wintermute , one of the
artificial intelligences
seen on the
story (the other one being the eponymous Neuromancer) which is actually controlling
the mission. As the novel progresses, Armitage's personality slowly disintegrates.
Peter Riviera : A thief who can project images using
his implants. He is a drug addict, hooked on a mix of heroin and cocaine.
Lady 3Jane Marie-France Tessier-Ashpool : The shared
current leader of "Tessier-Ashpool SA", a company running
Freeside , a resort in space. She lives
in the tip of Freeside, known as the "Villa Straylight". She controls the
hardwiring that keeps the company's AIs from exceeding their boundaries of
intelligence.
Reference
William Gibson,
Neuromancer , published by
Ace Books ,
ISBN 0441569595
See also
The Sprawl trilogy
The Matrix
(movie)
External Links
Study
Guide for Neuromancer by Paul Brians of Washington State University
( http://www.wsu.edu/~brians/science_fiction/neuromancer.html )
Retrieved from " http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Neuromancer "
Categories :
1984 books
|
Dystopian novels
|
Science fiction novels
|
The Sprawl trilogy
Logan's Run
.
You have
new messages .
Logan's Run
(novel)
Novel
by
William F. Nolan
&
George Clayton Johnson
Released
1967
Original publisher (U.S.)
N/A
Genre
Science fiction
Professional reviews
SF Reviews.Net
T. M. Wagner
link
( http://www.sfreviews.net/logansrun.html )
Logan's Run
(movie)
Released
1976
Studio
MGM
Director
Michael Anderson
Producers
Saul David , Hugh Benson
Screenwriter
David Zelag Goodman
Music
Jerry Goldsmith
Cast
Michael
York ,
Richard Jordan ,
Jenny
Agutter ,
Peter Ustinov ,
Farrah Fawcett
Aspect ratio
2.35:1
Todd-AO 35
Running
time
120 min
IMDb listing
link
( http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0074812/ )
Logan's Run
is a
novel
by
William F. Nolan
and
George Clayton Johnson , published
in
1967 . A
film version
was made in
1976 , directed
by
Michael Anderson , which was filmed mostly in
a
Dallas, Texas
shopping
mall . A
television version
was made from
1977
to
1978 , produced
by
Ivan Goff .
Contents
[ show hide ]
1 Exposition
2 Plot
Introduction
3
Differences between Novel and Film
4 Plot
Conclusion
5
Sequels and Spinoffs
6 Style
Exposition
"The seeds of the Little War were planted in a restless summer during
the mid- 1960s ,
with
sit-ins
and
student demonstrations
as
youth tested its strength.
By the early
1970s
over 75 percent of the people living on
earth
were under
twenty-one years of age.
The
population
continued to climb—and with it the
youth
percentage.
In the
1980s
the figure was 79.7 per cent.
In the
1990s ,
82.4 per cent.
In the year
2000 — critical
mass ."
Plot Introduction
In the future, the population's age is limited at twenty one years
(thirty in the movie version). When people reach that limit — called Lastday
— they are
euthanized
in a Sleepshop; in the film, there is
a ceremony called Carousel, in which they believe they will be reborn. A
person's age can be told by looking at a life clock
crystal
in the palm of their
hand , that glows a different colour depending on their
age. On Lastday it blinks red.
Runners are people who want to escape this fate. Logan 5 (Logan 3
in the novel), a
Deep Sleep Operative , or
sandman
who polices the
Carousel process, becomes a runner himself when his life clock is put forward
so he can work undercover. Jessica 6, a contact Logan has because he terminated
her runner brother, helps Logan to find the
mythical
" sanctuary ",
a place of safety for runners outside of the massive cities that the population
is centered in.
Differences between Novel and Film
The film is reasonably faithful to the novel in its first half, with
some specific differences. The movie is set in a
post-apocalyptic
scenario in
which the final remnants of humanity live in a domed city sealed off from
the outside. Thus the population control policy is designed to prevent overpopulation
of the dome. In the novel there has been no worldwide apocalyptic war, but
some cities from the past (such as
Washington D.C. ) have been ruined in a smaller
war. Most cities are massive, global, and thriving, which makes the forced
euthanasia premise much more cynical. The novel does not contain the Carousel
nor the concept of life renewal. Also, in the movie, Logan is assigned by
the city's computer to go undercover as a Runner to find Sanctuary and destroy
it. In the book, Logan decides to undertake this quest himself on his own
Lastday, so that he will be remembered as a hero. For most of the book, therefore,
Logan is a much darker character, an
antihero ,
with his character arc being his growing sympathy towards Runners and ultimate
desire to reach, not destroy, Sanctuary.
In the movie, Logan finds an
ankh
pendant on
the body of a Runner he has killed, which is a key to Sanctuary. In the novel
he finds a card that allows him to contact an underground network of Runners,
through which he meets Jessica.
In the novel, Logan and Jessica travel all over the globe. The character
of Box, a psychotic
cyborg
whom the pair encounter, is much changed in the
film. In the novel, Logan and Jessica find themselves trapped in an Arctic
prison colony, and are told that Box, the colony's most violent and insane
inmate, is their only key to escape. In the movie, Box has been placed at
Runners' escape route from the domed city, where he captures and kills Runners
so that their bodies can be recycled for food. This gives the film a subplot
inspired by the earlier film,
Soylent
Green . Because of Box, in the film Logan concludes no Runner has
ever really escaped and that Sanctuary is a myth.
The film's second half is even more markedly changed from the novel,
as described in the next passage.
Plot Conclusion
Spoiler warning :
Plot or ending
details follow.
In the novel Francis, another sandman, catches up with Logan and Jessica
after they have managed to escape the cities. He reveals that he and Ballard,
a friend of Jessica and Logan who has helped them escape, are one in the same
(he was wearing a disguise). The 40-year-old Ballard is working from within
the system, and he believes that it is starting to die. Sanctuary turns out
to be an abandoned space colony near
Mars . Logan and Jessica escape to the colony on
a
rocket
from the remains of the
John F. Kennedy Space Center . Ballard
remains to continue to help others escape.
The movie version of
Logan's Run
had a different outcome.
Francis is commissioned by the city's
computer
network to follow Logan and Jessica. They have found the frozen human remains
of others who attempted to escape the city guarded by an android. Logan and
Jessica narrowly escape the android and conclude that Sanctuary does not
exist. In the ruins of
Washington D.C. , Logan and Jessica meet an old
man -- well beyond the thirty-year lifespan that citizens are allowed, and
in a confrontation between Logan and Francis, learn that the restrictions
on population, Carousel, and the bases for their society are no longer necessary.
Francis dies in the fight.
Logan, Jessica, and Old Man decide to return to the City Of Domes
to prove the entire human race wrong. Old Man waits at the City borders while
Logan and Jessica again penetrate city seals to return inside the Domes.
As Logan declares to the city populace the truth about Carousel and the possibility
of extended life, both he and Jessica are captured and arrested by the Sandmen
and placed under the city computer for interrogation. Logan's denial of Sanctuary
causes the computer and the City Of Domes' destruction. Logan and Jessica
(and eventually the entire City Populace) escape and the under-thirty citizens
meet the old man who accompanied them, thus the human race is freed from totalitarian
control. The film's ending is much more sentimental than the book's.
Sequels and Spinoffs
Nolan wrote two sequels,
Logan's World
and
Logan's Search ,
published after the film's release. A brief television series spun off from
the film lasted one season in the late
1970s , starring
Gregory Harrison as Logan.
Marvel
Comics
also published a short-lived
comic
book
series. A
remake
of the film has been announced for 2005.
Style
Logan's Run
is fast-paced and at times graphic and
sexually
explicit for the time in which it was
written. Although generally dark (forced
self-mutilation ,
sadistic
sexual
torture ),
Logan's Run
is also quite broadly drawn, with characters such
as a
cryogenics - and
sex-obsessed
cyborg , and
an army of deadly
American Civil War
recreation
androids .
See also:
Euthanasia ,
Dystopia
/
Utopia ,
Body modification ,
Sexual liberation
Harrison Bergeron
.
The
dystopian
short
story
" Harrison Bergeron " by
Kurt
Vonnegut , opens with the line " The year was 2081, and everyone was
finally equal. "
Spoiler warning :
Plot or ending
details follow.
Unfortunately, this equality has been achieved by handicapping the
most intelligent, athletic or beautiful members of society down to the level
of the lowest common denominator, a process central to the society which
is overseen by the United States Handicapper General, who at the time of
the story is the shotgun-toting Diana Moon Glampers.
Harrison Bergeron , the title character, is by age
14 exceptionally gifted in all three aspects -- already seven feet tall,
" a man that would have awed Thor, the god of thunder " -- and outgrowing
hindrances faster than the Handicapper General's office can think them up.
When he is taken to prison for plotting to overthrow the government, for
a moment he escapes and manages to break free of his imposed handicaps, and
into a television studio:
"I am the Emperor!" cried Harrison. "Do you hear? I am the Emperor!
Everybody must do what I say at once!" He stamped his foot and the studio
shook. "Even as I stand here" he bellowed, "crippled, hobbled, sickened -
I am a greater ruler than any man who ever lived! Now watch me become what
I can become!"
The ensuing hullabaloo is televised, with the Handicapper General
herself eventually arriving to settle things; Bergeron's parents, Hazel and
George, are at home watching television, and see the whole thing. However,
thanks to their concentration handicaps, once it is all over, they forget
what exactly it was that had caused so much excitement.
The story was adapted into a
TV
film in
1995
starring
Sean Astin . It also formed a segment of the 1972
TV production and book
Between Time and Timbuktu . It was
first published in
The Magazine of Fantasy
& Science Fiction , October 1961, and is collected in
Welcome to the Monkey House .
Oryx and Crake
.
Oryx and Crake
is a
novel
by
Canadian
author
Margaret Atwood , which was published in
2003 .
Spoiler warning :
Plot or ending
details follow.
Returning to the
dystopic
themes of Atwood's earlier novel
The Handmaid's Tale ,
Oryx and Crake
presents a very different scenario than that novel's religious
theocracy .
However, in both novels the collapse of
civilization
quite noticeably echoes current events.
The
protagonist
of
Oryx and Crake
is Snowman,
clad only in a bedsheet, who appears to be the last human being on Earth.
He's not entirely alone, however; strange hybrid beasts such as
wolvogs
and pigoons and rakunks are roaming freely. As well, a group of what he calls
Crakers -- a mysterious community who seem, at first, to be both human and
eerily not quite human -- lives nearby. They bring Snowman food and consulting
him on matters that surpass their understanding; thus, Snowman comes across
as a
post-apocalyptic
hermit
guru . As
the story develops, these assorted lifeforms are revealed to be the products
of
genetic engineering .
In flashbacks, we learn that Snowman was once a young boy named Jimmy,
who grew up in the early 21st century. His world was dominated by multinational
corporations which kept their employees' families in
privileged compounds
separated from the
pleeblands .
Shortly after Jimmy's family moved to HelthWyzer, where his father worked
as a genographer, Jimmy met and befriended Glenn, a brilliant science student.
Atwood's
satirical
take on current society is presented most pointedly
in the jaded activities of these two youths. Jimmy and Glenn spend a lot
of their free time playing online computer games such as
Kwiktime Osama
and
Blood and Roses , or watching live executions,
Noodie
News ,
frog squashing , graphic
surgery
and
pornography .
Their favourite pastime, however, is an online game called Extinctathon,
a trivia game which requires immense knowledge of
extinct
animal and plant species. Using the codenames
Thickney
(Jimmy) and
Crake
(Glenn), they try to work their way up the ranks to become
Grandmasters.
On another trip through the dark underbelly of the Web, they come
across an Asian child pornography site, where Jimmy is struck and haunted
by the eyes of a young girl he calls
Oryx , who will eventually become
intimately involved in the lives of Jimmy and Crake as all three move toward
their roles in the end of the old world and the birth of the new.
Crake used his prominent position at a
biotech
corporation to launch a project to create the hybrid Crakers. His goal was
to create a peaceful society that will live harmoniously with nature. These
genetically engineered humans are leaf-eating
herbivores
and they only have
sexual intercourse
during limited breeding
seasons when they are
promiscuous . Thus, many of the conflicts in human
culture are removed.
At the same time, Crake created a virulent genetic
epidemic
that, apparently, killed off all humans except for Jimmy. Jimmy was unknowingly
vaccinated
with the intention of acting as a
guardian
for the Crakers. Thus, Crake could be argued to be a
mad
scientist , albeit maddened by the troubled society he occupied; alternatively,
one might see Crake as rationally saving intelligent life from an inevitably
dying society. In the story's
climax , Crake arranged his own death by manipulating
Jimmy into killing Crake for self-defense. At the same time, Oryx died and,
thus, we find Jimmy obsessing over his vanished world and, especially, Oryx.
However, the story ends with some unresolved
ambiguity
as three, ragged true humans arrive and spend some time observing the Crakers.
Then, Snowman, in turn, spies on these humans and, on the final page, Snowman
walks in the open towards these humans.
The Handmaid's Tale
.
Cover of The Handmaid's Tale
The Handmaid's Tale
is a
1985
science fiction
novel
by
Canadian
author
Margaret Atwood . It describes the horrors of
a
United States
in which a religious movement has
gained ultimate power, at a time where pollution has caused the majority
of women to be sterile.
Spoiler warning :
Plot or ending
details follow.
Themes
A revolution has taken place in the
United
States . The
Constitution
has been abrogated
and a new order - the Republic of Gilead - has been established, one that
rules with the
Bible
in hand. Most
citizens
have been stripped of their freedoms. All religions - including Christianity
- have been suppressed.
African-Americans
and others who do not conform
to the new societal norms are deported to regions where pollution has reached
toxic levels - if they are lucky. The government enforces its dictates with
mass liquidations and ritualized executions of religious and political dissidents.
Women are most affected: no longer are they allowed to read, wear
make-up, or to choose their clothes. There are five types of women in this
new society: Wives, Aunts, Marthas, Handmaids and Econowives.
Wives are at the top of the social structure: they are infertile women
married to the Commanders who are the ruling circle of the new military dictatorship.
Aunts have the duty of training and monitoring the Handmaids. In return
they receive - relatively speaking - a substantial degree of personal autonomy.
Marthas are also infertile and are deemed unfit for membership in
the ruling class but are willing to accept their status as
servants
to the Commanders and Wives.
A Handmaid is a fertile female whose sole purpose is to have
sex
once a month with her Commander, to provide
him with children who will be treated as the offspring of his Wife.
The Econowives' place in the social order is not clearly defined:
they are married to males who are below the status of Commander and expected
to carry out all the tasks which, among the other women, are apportioned
by class. Why the Econowives are required to do this when they are (implicitly)
capable of bearing children and thus, would be as valuable as Handmaids,
is not explained.
Plot
The story is told from the perspective of Offred, the handmaid. "Offred"
is the name given to her by the new order, since she "belongs" to, or is
"of" her Commander, whose first name is Fred. She does not state her "real"
name. (In the
1990
film adaptation, Offred gives her real first name as Kate; however, this
was not derived from the novel.) In fact, none of the characters in the novel
are identified as having surnames, which enhances the atmosphere of other-worldliness.
Offred's assignment to the household of the Commander is not her first,
but it differs from her prior experience in that she is given, in various
disjointed episodes, glimpses that all is not as it seems in the new world
and that the people in her life, while paying lip service to society's mores,
seek various means of expressing their individuality.
Slowly, it begins to dawn on Offred that the Bible is only used as
a crutch; she seems to remember that the verses quoted at her were not actually
in the book, but how can she verify this if she is not allowed to read?
Appendices following the story proper treat Offred's narrative as
a historical document, implying an academic setting even farther into the
future. In this respect
The Handmaid's Tale
is similar to
Egalia's
Daughters
by Gerd Brantenberg or
Dune
by
Frank
Herbert .
Adaptations
A 1990 film adaptation of the novel was directed by
Volker Schlöndorff . It starred
Natasha Richardson ,
Faye
Dunaway
and
Robert Duvall . The libretto of
Poul Ruders '
opera , which
premiered in
2003 ,
is also derived from the novel.
A Friend of the Earth
.
T. Coraghessan Boyle 's novel
A Friend
of the Earth
( 2000 ) is a story of environmental destruction. The novel
is set in
2025 ;
as a result of
global warming
and the
greenhouse effect , the climate has drastically
changed, and, accordingly,
biodiversity
is a thing of the past.
Due to
habitat
loss, many animal species have become extinct,
but also the flora has considerably suffered. Many foods, including beef,
eggs, beer, etc., are no longer readily available. Instead,
rice
is grown
everywhere, and
sake
is the only alcoholic beverage available. Other vegetables are grown in domed
fields.
El
Niño
has become an everyday companion of the inhabitants of the
United States : strong winds are continuously blowing,
and there is heavy rainfall for several months every year. In the dry season,
it is unbearably hot.
Deforestation
has occurred for two reasons: (a)
the storms, which have uprooted whole forests; and, (b) the timber industry's
limitless destruction of primeval forests all over the world, including the
tropical
rainforest . On top of it all, modern science has
invented lots of artificial ways to prolong human life (for example, there
are TV ads for organ transplants), and
longevity
among humans is now a fact with
life expectancy
having climbed to over the 100-year
mark. Consequently, the world is massively overpopulated. In the U.S.A.,
what used to be unspoiled nature is now residential areas, with condominiums
having sprung up everywhere. Inside these condos, people who do not care
about the environment live their lives in front of their computers and
televisions .
At no point in the novel does Boyle enter into a discussion of the
political situation, but there are various hints hidden in the text which
tell us that the social security system has crumbled and that many older
Americans are left to their own devices, without a regular income, many of
them seemingly even without a roof over their heads.
Synopsis
Spoiler warning :
Plot or ending
details follow.
A Friend of the Earth
is the story of Tyrone O'Shaughnessy
Tierwater, a U.S. citizen born in
1950 , half Irish
Catholic and half Jewish ("I'm a mess and I know it. Jewish guilt, Catholic
guilt, enviro-eco-capitalistico guilt: I can't even expel gas in peace."),
whose personal tragedy fits in with, and adds to, the gloomy atmosphere created
in the novel.
Egged on by Andrea, the woman he loves, he becomes a convinced and
committed "ecoteur" in the
1980s , is imprisoned for several years, but eventually
cannot change anything. On top of that, he suffers the loss of his first
wife when their daughter is only three and of his daughter when she is only
25. When the novel opens, Tierwater is a 75-year-old disillusioned ex-con
living on the estate of a famous pop star somewhere in
California
and looking after the latter's private menagerie.
Maclovio Pulchris, the singer, has had the idea of preserving some
of the last surviving animals of several species in order to initiate a captive
breeding programme at some later point in time, choosing to preserve the animals
no-one else would. Tierwater has been working for Pulchris ("Mac") for ten
years when, in 2025, Andrea, his ex-wife and stepmother to his daughter
Sierra,
contacts him after more than 20 years. She and a friend of hers, April Wind,
move in with Tierwater, officially for April Wind to write a biography, or
rather hagiography, of Sierra Tierwater, his daughter, who died in 2001 as
a martyr to the environmentalist cause. (A "tree-hugging cunt", as their
opponents called her, she falls off a tree in old growth woodland in which
she has been living for about three years.)
In the course of the next few months the situation deteriorates even
more: The rain and the wind destroy the animals' cages, and subsequently
they have to be kept in Pulchris's basement. One morning one of the lions
gets loose, attacks the singer, and kills him and a number of employees.
As a consequence, the other lions are shot -- and thus lions as a species
become extinct. (There is just one surviving lion in the
San
Diego Zoo
left.)
Jobless and penniless, Tierwater, who has fallen in love all over
again with Andrea, is evicted from the estate by Pulchris's heirs, and he
and Andrea are on the road, heading for a mountain cabin owned by E.F.! (Earth
Forever!), a cabin somewhere in the forest which decades ago served them
as a hideout. They arrive there with only one of Pulchris's animals in tow:
Petunia, the Patagonian
fox , which they now keep as their domestic animal, passing
it off as their dog.
In the final scene of the book, a teenaged girl comes hiking along
the trail where the forest surrounding the dilapidated cabin would have been,
and Tierwater and Andrea, who again call themselves husband and wife now,
have a glimmer of hope that life is going to be again what it was 30 years
ago. In spite of everything, the novel ends on an optimistic note.
Some of the icons of the environmental movement mentioned in the text:
Edward Abbey
[ The Monkey Wrench Gang
(1975)]
Aldo Leopold
[ A Sand County Almanac
(1949)]
Edwin Muir
Arne Naess
( Deep
Ecology )
Henry David Thoreau
Allusions to other novels by T.C. Boyle:
Officer Jerpbak, who makes his first appearance in
Budding Prospects
( 1984 ).
In the neighbourhood of Maclovio Pulchris's estate, there is a
walled-in community reminiscent of that in
The Tortilla Curtain
( 1995 ).
A lot more background information can be found at
http://www.tcboyle.com
.
Fahrenheit 451
.
Fahrenheit 451
( 1953 ) is a
dystopian
science fiction
novel by
Ray
Bradbury . It is set in a world where books are
banned
and critical thought is discouraged; the central character,
Guy Montag ,
is employed as a "fireman" (which, in this case, means " book
burner "). 451
degrees Fahrenheit
is stated as the temperature
at which paper ignites and begins to burn. See
fire point .
Contents
[ show hide ]
1 Plot
2 Analysis
3
Film and radio versions
4
Influence on popular culture
5 ISBNs
6 External
links
Plot
Spoiler warning :
Plot or ending
details follow.
After meeting a girl named Clarisse McClellan, Montag, a fireman who
sets fire to houses possessing contraband books, starts questioning the world
he lives in. The plot is driven by Montag's rejection of the mindless world
which he inhabits. He begins to collect books, to the horror of his wife,
Mildred, whose only interest in life is the viewing of vacuous television
shows (a parody of 1950's programming). When ordered to put fire to his house,
he does so before turning his flamethrower on
Beatty , his fire chief. With the aid
of
Faber ,
a well-educated but timid old man, he eludes a police search and escapes
the Mechanical Hound, a robotic tracking device. Montag flees into the forest,
where he joins a wandering band of intellectual rebels, who have committed
books to memory. The book ends as he watches "the city" destroyed by an
atomic
bomb .
Analysis
Although given the time of the book's publication, its theme brings
to mind the repression of intellectual freedom that characterised the
McCarthy
Era , Bradbury's critique of the censorial tendency also encompasses acts
motivated by radical
egalitarianism
and what would today be called
political correctness .
The book also deals with apathy toward and ignorance regarding one's
surroundings and a devotion to the law of the sort characterized for many
by
Nazi Germany . Montag lived his life as a fireman
without thinking about his actions: to him, books were banned and he was
only enforcing the law. Montag is awoken initially to the possibility that
the law might be wrong through encounters with the eccentric girl named Clarisse,
and by watching a woman burn with her books. Montag then began to wonder
what the books could contain that would make some give their lives for them
and others want to destroy them. This drives him to an eventual meeting with
the Fahrenheit 451's wise man Faber. Montag then realizes that all this time
he had sought to destroy that which he didn't understand.
Film and radio versions
The book, with some plot changes, was made into a film in
1966
by
François Truffaut , with
Oskar
Werner
as Montag. There are plans for a
remake
in
2005 , directed
by
Frank Darabont .
In addition to the movie, there have been at least two
BBC
Radio 4
dramatisations, both of which follow the book very closely.
Influence on popular culture
The title of Bradbury's book has become a well-known byword amongst
those who oppose
censorship , in much the way
George
Orwell 's
1984
has (although not to the same
extent). As such, it has been alluded to in dozens of later contexts, amongst
them the
ACLU 's 1997 whitepaper
Fahrenheit
451.2: Is Cyberspace Burning?
and
Michael
Moore 's
2004
film
Fahrenheit 9/11 .
See also:
Cinema of France ,
List of French language films
Equilibrium (2002 movie)
.
Equilibrium
is an
action-filled
science-fiction
film set in the future. Similarities
to classic
dystopian
novels
such
as
Nineteen Eighty-Four ,
Fahrenheit 451 , and
Brave New World
are evident.
Contents
[ show hide ]
1
Story
2
Cast & Crew
3
Gun Kata
4
External links
Story
Spoiler warning :
Plot or ending
details follow.
The movie is set in 2072, where mankind has survived a nuclear war
and has been to the brink of
extinction .
Knowing that the next
war
would annihiliate them, the survivors decided that
emotions
were the cause of man's "inhumanity to man", and have decided to make them
illegal. In the fictional
city
Libria , everyone has to take doses of the
(fictitious)
drug
prozium , which prevents men from being sad or angry. The drug
also removes
emotions
like love and hapiness, but the powers-that-be
find that it is a small price to pay to have
peace .
However, a group of
rebels
feeling that without emotions man is nothing, refuse
to take their daily dosage of
prozium
and have moved out of
Libria .
These
"emotional deviants"
are hunted down and killed by the
Clerics ,
Libria's ninja-like secret police.
Cast & Crew
Kurt Wimmer
- Director/Writer
Christian Bale
- John Preston
Emily Watson
- Mary
Taye Diggs
- Brandt
Sean Bean
- Partridge
Sean Pertwee
- Father
Gun Kata
Gun Kata
is a fictitious gun-fighting martial arts
discipline that features as part of the movie. Gun Kata is based upon the
premise that the positions and actions of antagonists can be predicted to
a high degree of accuracy in any given combat situation.
External links
IMDb entry
on
Equilibrium
( http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0238380/ )
Apple trailer
( http://www.apple.com/trailers/miramax/equilibrium.html )
Gunkata the deadly martial art of handgun
self-defense
The Domination
.
The Domination
is a
dystopian
alternate history
series of four
novels
written
by
S. M. Stirling . The world of The Domination diverges
from our world at the time of the
American Revolutionary War , when
the
Netherlands
declares war on the
UK , resulting in the loss of its
Cape
Colony
to the British. After defeat in Revolutionary War, the
Loyalists
who historically went to Canada
are instead moved to the new Crown Colony of Drakia in
South
Africa . The Crown Colony of Drakia (later, the Dominion of Draka) is an
aggressive
militaristic
slave-owning society reinforced over
the course of the 19th century by
Icelanders ,
French
royalists ,
defeated
American Confederates
and other
reactionary
refugees.
Over 90% of the population are
slaves
(officially
referred to as ' serfs ', as the Draka maintain the fiction that they are
part of the
British Empire , which outlaws slavery). In fact
the entire Drakan society, from sex to the economy, is based on slavery.
Almost all Draka citizens own at least a few slaves.
The Dominion draws substantially from the ideology of
Friedrich Nietzsche
and can be viewed as
an "Anti-America" - in the sense that like the
United
States , the Draka nation started off as a British settler
colony , but
evolved along diametrically opposite lines. While the United States had slavery,
even slave-holders had to pay lip-service to the
American values
of liberty and equality, and
the contradiction was eventually resolved by the
American Civil War . The Draka, on the other
hand view themselves as a
master
race
and unlike the
Nazis , actually try their utmost to be such - all Draka
citizen children attend sex-segregated
boarding schools
with an extreme
Sparta -like
emphasis on physical fitness.
Politically, the Draka state is described as ' aristocratic
republic '
with a
parliamentary system
of government. The
Archon ,
the head of state appointed by parliament (elected in free and fair elections),
serves for a 20-year term. Draka citizens have a considerable degree of
free
speech , but fundamental criticism of the slave system is forbidden. The
Draka economy is heavily dominated by
cartels
known
as Combines, with ownership split between the state and the Landholders'
League (Citizens can only own the right to use land, not the land itself,
which can be confiscated in the event of neglect or misuse). There is also
a considerable small-business
private sector .
Because the Draka are so heavily outnumbered, meaning that a general
slave rebellion
could well mean their extermination,
the Draka are utterly ruthless.
Impalement
is the favoured Draka method of executing rebellious slaves.
Spoiler warning :
Plot or ending
details follow.
By
1900
the Draka have conquered and enslaved all of
Africa . The
last areas to be conquered were the jungles of the
Congo , due to
the danger of
tropical diseases . Meanwhile, the United States
has
annexed
Mexico
outright after the
Mexican-American War .
William Walker 's Southern adventurers conquer
Central America . During the
American Civil War
the Draka supply massive
amounts of aid to the
Confederacy , including
steam-powered
armored cars . However, the
Union
still wins the Civil War, and
annexes Walker's central American empire, along with
Hawaii , the
Caribbean
islands and the
Philippines . All these territories eventually give
the United States a total of 62 states.
In
World War I
the Dominion of the Draka loyally joins
the Allied side, and conquers the
Ottoman Empire , before declaring independence
from Britain, renaming itself the Domination of the Draka. It then takes
advantage of the
Russian Civil War
to take over much of
Central
Asia , and partitions
China
with the
Japanese Empire .
At this stage, under the influence of Draka philosophers such as Elvira
Naldorssen, the traditional Draka
white-supremacism
is replaced by Draka-supremacism,
with the Draka viewing all of non-Drakan humanity as their cattle. Elvira
explains the ideology of the Domination, the utter amorality of which will
lead enemies of the Draka to refer to them as 'Snakes':
"...so the Draka are not different from other peoples because they
violate the Golden Rule or Bentham's derivative idolatry 'the greatest good
for the greatest number'. Everyone does. We do not violate them, we reject
them.
"Others have conquered and ruled; we alone conquer for conquest's
sake and Dominate for no other purpose than Domination itself; the name we
half-consciously chose for our state is no accident. We, and we alone have
spoken aloud the Great Secret; that the root function of all human society
is the production and reproduction of power - and that power is the ability
to compel others to do your will against theirs. It is end, not means. The
purpose of Power is Power.
"The Draka will conquer the world for two reasons; because we must
and because we can. And yet of the two forces the second is the greater;
we do this because we choose to do it. By the sovereign Will and force of
arms the Draka will rule the Earth, and in so doing remake themselves. We
shall conquer and beat the Nations of the Earth into the dust and reforge
them in our self wrought Image; the Final Society without weakness or mercy,
hard and pure. Our descendants will walk the hillside of that future, innocent
beneath the stars, with no more between them and their naked will than a wolf
has. THEN there will be Gods in the Earth."
The first book of the series
Marching Through Georgia
is
a war story set during the Eurasian War, the Domination timeline's equivalent
of
World War II . Due to the additional danger of invasion
on its southern border by the Domination, the
Soviet
Union
was completely crushed by the Nazis, with only a Siberian rump
state surviving under a
junta
led by
Marshal Timoshenko . The Domination entered
the war just before the Nazi invasion of Russia, conquering
Italy
with the
tacit consent of the Nazis. Now the Draka have attacked the
Third
Reich
itself, in the
Caucasus
region. Much of the story is told from the
point of view of the Draka
centurion
Eric von Shrakenberg and the American journalist Bill Dreiser.
The Draka citizen soldiers, female as well as male, are honed killing
machines, each equal to several of their enemy on the battlefield. They are
equipped with superb weaponry - while the German army is equipped with
Panther
and
Tiger
tanks, the Draka have 14,000 Hond III tanks - equivalent in armor, engine
size and gun caliber to the
M1 Abrams
and other real-world tanks of the present day.
For attritional warfare the Domination uses it
Janissary
slave soldiers, who make up 60% of the Draka army. Draka soldiers neither
ask nor give quarter - all captured enemies are killed or permanently enslaved.
After the
attack on Pearl Harbor
annihilates the
entire
American Pacific Fleet , with
the States of Hawaii and the Philippines under Japanese occupation, and fighting
a desperate battle to expel a Japanese invasion of the mainland, the United
States is totally unable to open a second front in
Europe , while
alliance with the Nazis against the Draka is blocked by the
Jewish
lobby (which
naturally see the Nazis as a worse evil due to the
Holocaust ),
and by a Draka threat to supply Japan with
nuclear
materials
and research information in the event of US-German peace.
As a result, once the United States eventually defeats Japan, the
Draka have conquered all of mainland Europe and most of
Asia . One of the
most powerful and horrific aspects of "Marching Through Georgia" is most
non-Jewish readers will find themselves rooting for the Nazis, who try in
vain to defend Europe against an enemy whose atrocities dwarf those of Hitler
and Stalin. In total, the Eurasian War claims some 200 million lives, over
three times the death toll of our own World War II.
The second book
Under the Yoke
is a horrific vision of Europe
under Draka rule. Tanya von Shrakenberg is establishing a plantation in formerly-French
Touraine Province. Her slaves include Marya Sokolowska and Chantal Lefarge,
formerly a
Polish
nun
and a
French
Communist
respectively.
In 1943 the United States set up the "Alliance for Democracy", an
economic and military union of the 11 remaining free countries - the United
States, the countries of
South
America , the UK, Japan,
India , the South-east Asian and
Australasian
Federations, and the Indo-Chinese republic. Fred Kustaa, agent for the Alliance
secret service, the
OSS , is attempting to keep a
resistance movement
alive in Europe. He
smuggles weapons to guerillas in
Finland ,
and latter attempts to smuggle the German professor Ernst Oerbach, who has
vital knowledge on
nuclear fusion . Marya Sokolowska is Fred's contact
in this second mission.
Eventually Draka ruthlessness crushes all resistance in Europe. Finland
is eventually almost totally depopulated, and in 1952 when a rebellion takes
over the city of
Barcelona , the Draka respond with a
thermonuclear bomb .
The third book
The Stone Dogs
tells the story of the Protracted
Struggle - the ultra-nasty
Cold War
between the Domination of the Draka and the Alliance for Democracy. There
is a far more intense
space race
in this world, with colonies and military
bases established on the
Moon , on
Mars
and in the
asteroid
belt .
In the 1970s, just as in our world, there is a major setback for the
Free
World . An OSS covert operation, designed to discredit a
Hindu
nationalist
party and keep India in the Alliance, backfires as the Draka assassinate
the Indian president and plant a suicide note implicating the OSS in the
scandal. As a result India secedes from the Alliance - and is conquered and
enslaved by the Draka within weeks (except
Burma , which
counter-seceded and rejoined the Alliance). After the 'Indian Incident' the
Alliance for Democracy is formally converted into a single superstate.
The much larger free population of the Alliance give it an edge in
physics
and
computer
technology, while the Domination gains the upper hand in the
biological
sciences by carrying out
vivisection
on its slave population. Both sides develop their respective super-weapons
with which to launch the first strike of the inevitable final war...
In "Drakon", the Domination is pitted against the world of Samothrace,
which is populated by the descendents of the Alliance's peoples. The Draka
stumble upon an alternative timeline, and the Samothracians rush to counter
the impending invasion with an incursion of their own. The showdown between
the Draka and the Samothracians culminates in an epic clash in
New
York City .
External links
Timeline of
the world of the Domination
( http://www.angelfire.com/fl4/eagle18/nightmares.html )
A
criticism of the Draka series
Time out of Joint
.
Philip K. Dick 's
novel
Time
Out of Joint
was originally serialised in the
British
science fiction
magazine
New Worlds Science Fiction
The
hero ,
named Ragel Gumm, lives in a quiet, early
1960s
American
suburb .
His unusual
occupation
consists of repeatedly winning the
cash
prize in
a local
newspaper
competition called `Where will the little
green man be next?' However, he has a problem: every now and then, some object
around him, like a
hot dog
stand in the local
park , fades away
into nothingness, leaving behind only a small slip of
paper
with the
name of the object printed on it. There are other mysterious aspects:
children
exploring the basement of an old, ruined
house
nearby
find a pile of magazines. One features an
actress ,
apparently well-known, who Gumm has never heard of, named
Marilyn Monroe .
Confusion gradually mounts for Gumm, and the plot then moves to one
of his neighbours observing this, who starts worrying `What if Gumm were
becoming
sane ?' In fact, Gumm does become sane, and
the deception around him (erected to both protect and exploit him) is unravelled.
The novel epitomises many of Dick's novels, with its concern about
the nature of reality, and ordinary people in ordinary lives having the world
unravel around them.
Blade Runner
.
Film poster for Blade Runner
Blade Runner
is a very dark
science fiction film
directed by
Ridley
Scott
released in
1982 . It presents a bleak
dystopic
vision of
Los Angeles
in the not too distant future.
Harrison Ford
stars as "Blade Runner" Rick Deckard.
In the future world of the movie artificially manufactured
androids
called
replicants
are used for dangerous and degrading work
in
Earth 's
"offworld colonies". Replicants are considered dangerous and are illegal
on Earth, and the Blade Runners are
bounty
hunters
who track down and "retire" (kill) any trespassers. Deckard is
called out of his own retirement to "retire" several advanced "Nexus-6" replicants
who are illegally present in Los Angeles.
Rutger Hauer
and
Darryl
Hannah
play two of the fugitive replicants, and
Sean Young
plays Rachael, Deckard's love interest, whose own humanity is in question.
Contents
[ show hide ]
1 Creators
2 Significance
3 Multiple
versions
4 Related
works
5
Blade Runner and today's issues
6 Blade
Runner Trivia
7 See also
8 External
links
Creators
Based loosely on the
novel
Do Androids Dream of Electric
Sheep?
by
Philip K. Dick , the
screenplay
was written by
Hampton Fancher
and
David Peoples . The
soundtrack
was composed by
Vangelis .
The term "Blade Runner", used in this film as a designation for people
of Deckard's profession, comes originally from a 1974 novel by
Alan E. Nourse ,
The Bladerunner , the
protagonist of which is a smuggler of black-market surgical implements. Nourse's
book inspired
William S. Burroughs 's book,
Bladerunner, A Movie ,
a script treatment in the form of a novel. Neither Nourse's novel nor Burroughs's
had any influence on Ridley Scott's film
Blade Runner
except that
Hampton Fancher happened upon a copy of
Bladerunner, A Movie
while
Scott was looking for a snappier title for his film - Scott liked it, and
obtained the rights to the title (but not any aspect of the plot).
Significance
Blade Runner
operates on an unusually rich number of dramatic
levels. The movie's dark
cyberpunk
style and futuristic design have inspired many subsequent science fiction
movies,
The Fifth Element
and
The Matrix
for example. It also owes a large debt to
film noir ,
containing such conventions as the
femme
fatale , a
Chandleresque
first-person narration (removed
in later versions), and the questionable moral outlook of the
Hero
- extended
here even to include the humanity of the hero, as well as the usual dark
and shadowy cinematography. One of the key subtexts of the plot is to question
the nature of reality, particularly with reference to
Cartesian
dreams
which the human and android protagonists may or may not experience;
it is therefore probably no coincidence that 'Deckard' is pronounced the
same as ' Descartes '.
But it is also perhaps the most literate science fiction work of recent
years, both thematically -- enfolding the
philosophy of religion
and
moral
implications of the increasing human mastery of
genetic engineering , within the context
of
classical Greek drama
and its notions of
hubris
-- and linguistically, drawing on the poetry of
William
Blake
and the
Bible . It also features a
chess
game based
on the famous
immortal game
of
1851 .
The film has been selected for preservation in the
United
States
National Film Registry .
Multiple versions
Spoiler warning :
Plot or ending
details follow.
Six versions of the film exist but only two are widely known and seen:
The original theatrical release ( 1982 ), also called
the
domestic cut .
Two workprint versions, shown only as previews to test audiences'
response; one of these was distributed in
1991 , billed as
a
Directors Cut , but was not approved by Ridley Scott. These workprints
have occasionally been shown at film festivals.
The Ridley Scott-approved Director's Cut in
1992 , prompted
by the unauthorized 1991 release. It does not include Deckard's explanatory
voice-over . One scene was added: a dream Deckard
has when he's dozing off at home drunk playing the piano. It shows a
unicorn
running through a forest. The final scene, where Deckard and Rachael are
driving off into the wilderness, was removed from this edition. A couple
of other scenes were extended slightly (mainly just city shots and flying
scenes). This is the only version so far released on DVD.
The international cut, with more graphic violence.
The broadcast version, with some profanity removed.
Ridley Scott decided both the voice-over and the happy ending were
not suited to the movie. The ending in the Director's Cut has to do with
the following included scene: Deckard picks up a small
origami
unicorn
he noticed on the ground when it was knocked over by Rachael as she was walking
towards the elevator. This suggests Gaff knew about his dreams, insinuating
that Deckard too has fabricated or copied memories, making him a replicant
as well.
Scott ended much speculation on the issue stated in a
2002
interview
that Deckard is indeed a replicant, although this raises a number of obvious
questions. Despite this authorized opinion, some
Blade Runner
fans
have various reasons to think the story is better if Deckard is not a replicant,
mainly related to the strength of the conflict and some philosophical implications.
Making Deckard a replicant makes the film less interesting in a number
of ways. If Deckard is human, the question of
What it is to be human
clearly becomes a central issue of the film. When Roy saves Deckard, a replicant
is showing a behaviour so human that it makes the definition shake. When
Deckard falls in love with Rachel, a human is feeling something for a non-human.
If replicants are hunting and falling in love with replicants there is no
ambivalence and therefore no conflict.
In
2002 ,
Scott completed a new cut of the film - creating a new digital print of the
film from the original negatives, updating the special effects, and remixing
the score into 5.1 surround. Unlike the rushed
1992
Director's
Cut, Scott personally oversaw the new cut. The Special Edition DVD is said
to be a three-disc set including the original theatrical release, the 1992
director's cut, and the newly enhanced version, as well as deleted scenes,
extensive cast and crew interviews, and a
BBC
documentary.
Unfortunately,
as of 2004 , this "Special Edition" release has been
delayed indefinitely due to legal disputes with the film's original
bond guarantors , who were ceded ownership
of the film when the shooting ran over budget.
Related works
Three more
Blade Runner
novels, which are sequels to the
movie rather than the book, have been written by Philip K. Dick's friend
K. W. Jeter :
Blade Runner 2: The Edge of Human
( 1988 )
Blade Runner 3: Replicant Night
( 1996 )
Blade Runner 4: Eye and
Talon
( 2000 )
There are also two computer games based on the movie. One for
Commodore
64
and
ZX Spectrum
by
CRL Group PLC
year
1985
and one
PC game
( Westwood Studios ,
1997 ), based on
the world described by the film.
A good account of the film's history is available in the book
Future Noir:
the Making of Blade Runner
by
Paul Sammon
( ISBN 0061053147 ).
Blade Runner
and today's issues
The world of
Blade Runner
depicts a future whose fictional
distance from present reality has grown sharply smaller during the past twenty
years.
The first draft of the entire human genome was decoded in
June 26 ,
2000
by
the
Human Genome Project , followed by a steadily-increasing
number of other organisms across the microscopic to macroscopic spectrum.
The short step from theory to practice in using genetic knowledge was taken
quickly:
genetically modified organisms
have become a present reality, with genetically-modified food ingredients
an everyday part of human daily diet (at least, in
North
America ).
The embryonic techniques of
somatic cell nuclear transfer
from a specific
genotype
via
cloning ,
as well as some of the
problems
pre-figured in "Blade Runner", were demonstrated
by the cloning of
Dolly the sheep
in
1996 . Since
2001 , political
efforts have been mounting in many countries to ban
human
cloning , impelled by a sense of its abhorrence and imminence, while rumors
abound that that the first human clones may already have been produced, the
most famous example being a claim by the
Raelians ,
a religious group who believes in
extraterrestrials .
In all of these developments, a clear tension between commercial and
non-commercial interests is apparent, as scientific and business motivations
conflict with ethical and religious concerns about the appropriateness of
human intervention in the deepest fabric of nature.
Such issues are deeply troubling to many. At core, the creation of
life and the ordering of the natural world has been the traditional raison
d'etre of
gods ,
and the substance of various
creation myths . In the classic Greek tradition,
the term
hubris
denotes actions by humans that usurp roles properly reserved for the gods;
heroes who display hubris invariably meet nasty ends ( nemesis ).
Blade Runner
has been praised for immersing us in these conflicts,
successfully blurring any standard expectations of moral correctness.
Blade Runner Trivia
It has been confirmed by Ridley Scott that the character of Deckard
is indeed a replicant himself.
The reference to the sixth replicant from Bryant's description
of the escaped replicants is not Deckard but another replicant who was subsequently
removed from the movie. Replacement dialogue was recorded for the scene but
it was never used.
The final scene in the original theatrical cut was actually unused
footage from
Stanley Kubrick 's
The
Shining .
A panel at the
Guardian
( http://www.guardian.co.uk/life/feature/story/0,13026,1290561,00.html )
votes Blade Runner the best science fiction movie ever.
See also
List of movies
List of actors
List of directors
List of documentaries
List of Hollywood movie studios
External links
Wikiquote
has a
collection of quotes by or about
Blade
Runner .
Blade Runner
entry
( http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0083658/ )
at the
Internet Movie Database
Blade Runner
fan site
( http://www.brmovie.com/ )
Special
Edition News Page
( http://www.brmovie.com/BR_Special_Edition.htm )
Deckard Is Not
A Replicant
( http://www.brmovie.com/Analysis/D-a-H_by_MC.htm ) ,
essay by Martin Connolly
2019: Off-World
( http://scribble.com/uwi/br/ ) , a fan
site
"Was
Deckard a replicant?" discussion at 2019: Off-World
Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep?
.
Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep?
( 1968 ) is a
science fiction
novel
by
Philip K. Dick . It tells the story of bounty
hunter Rick Deckard, stalking almost-human "Nexus-6"
androids
(referred to derogatorily as "andys") through the gloomy, partially deserted
streets of a future
San Francisco . It was adapted very loosely into
the screenplay for the 1982 film
Blade
Runner .
Spoiler warning :
Plot or ending
details follow.
The plot and characterizations of
Do Androids Dream of Electric
Sheep?
are different in a number of ways from that of
Blade Runner .
The novel is both more surreal and more complex than the movie, as the movie
was based on the themes rather than the plot of the novel.
The future portrayed is a bleak one, in which the Earth is dying after
a nuclear war, and many people have emigrated "off-world" to the space colonies.
Animals are extremely rare, and hence extremely valuable. In fact, owning
an animal is something of a status symbol. For many, an artificial animal
is the only affordable alternative. Rick Deckard himself owns an
electric
sheep , a replacement for a living one which had died some time ago.
His peers are ignorant to the change, and it is a source of shame to Deckard.
The androids are given as
slaves
as
an incentive to colonizers of
Mars , but their presence is illegal on Earth.
They can be differentiated from true humans in only a few ways: the Voigt-Kampff
empathy
test, an inferior and obsolescent "Boneli" test based on timing reflex responses,
and a bone marrow scan. Strictly speaking, the term
android
is
an accurate one as the term suggests biological composition; the beings in
the novel are genuinely organic. (In modern SF, the term has come to refer
to machines instead, as in the
Star Wars
movies, which in a strict sense might be inaccurate. Excessive debate on
such finer details is likely to encounter deep complications, the very issues
which Dick—and
Isaac Asimov
before him—explored along the human-mechanical
boundary.) The androids live a maximum of roughly four years, since their
cells cannot be replaced as they deteriorate. The novel states that this
is a shortcoming of the android technology; in contrast, the film
Blade
Runner
depicts the four-year lifespan as a safety feature, deliberately
included so that the android beings could not grow into fuller humanity.
Unlike the film adaption, Deckard is not an android; he passes the
Voigt-Kampff test. He is, however, alarmed to find that unlike another bounty
hunter, he has started to develop empathy for androids. At one point Deckard
proclaims that the androids are alive, in meaningful if not legal ways.
Another significant feature of the novel, entirely absent from the
movie
Blade Runner , is the religion of Mercerism. Founded by Wilbur
Mercer, a man who had the power to reverse the decay process and restore
life into dead animals, Mercerism blends the concept of a
life-death-rebirth deity
with the scientific
theory of
entropy .
Worshipers use an empathy box, an electronic device which instills in its
user a
hallucination
of sharing Mercer's sufferings.
Androids, even the advanced Nexus 6 models, cannot participate in Mercerism,
as they lack the necessary trait of empathy. It can be assumed that asking
a suspected android to use an 'empathy box', as they are called in the novel,
would be a simple way to determine if they are indeed an artificial human.
Another feature of the scenario is the 'Penfield Mood Organ', which
induces emotions in its users. The user can dial a setting to obtain a mood.
Examples include setting 481, "awareness of the manifold possibilities of
the future", 888, "the desire to watch
television ,
no matters what's on it", and 3, the "desire to dial." Many users have a
daily schedule of moods to which they adhere.
ISBN numbers
ISBN 0345404475
( paperback ,
1996 )
ISBN 0783895186
( hardcover ,
2001 ,
Large Type Edition)
Candide
.
Candide
(1759) is a short
novel
by the
Enlightenment
philosopher
Voltaire .
Sardonic in outlook, it follows the naive protagonist Candide from
his first exposure to the precept that " all is for the best in this, the best of all
possible worlds ," and on through a series of adventures that dramatically
disprove that precept even as the protagonist clings to it. The novel
satirizes
the philosophy of
Gottfried Leibniz . In "Candide", Leibniz is
represented by the philospher
Dr. Pangloss , the tutor of the title
character. Despite a series of misfortunes and misadventures, Pangloss continually
asserts that "tout est au mieux" ("everything is for the best") and the he
lives in "le meilleur des mondes possibles" ("the best of all possible worlds).
Voltaire never openly admitted to having written the controversial
Candide . The work is signed with a
pseudonym :
"Monsieur le docteur Ralph," literally "Mr. Dr. Ralph."
Leonard Bernstein
based an
operetta
( 1956 ) on Voltaire's
story. For information on this, please see
Candide (musical) .
See also:
panglossianism -
dystopia
Memorable passages of
Candide
The one which begins with the Venetian senator Pococurante's summing
up for his visitors his views of the authors whose works comprise his library.
<< Les sots admirent tout dans un auteur estimé. Je ne lis
que pour moi ; je n'aime que ce qui est à mon usage. >>
Candide, qui avait été élevé à ne jamais
juger de rien par lui-même, était fort étonné
de ce qu'il entendait ; et Martin trouvait la façon de penser
de Pococuranté assez raisonnable.
English translation:
"Fools admire everything in an author of reputation. For my part, I read
only to please myself. I like only that which serves my purpose." Candide,
having been educated never to judge for himself, was much surprised at what
he heard. Martin found there was a good deal of reason in Pococurante's remarks.
External links
French text from University of Virginia:
[1]
( http://etext.lib.virginia.edu/etcbin/browse-mixed-french?id=VolCand&tag=public&images=images/modeng&data=/lv1/Archive/french-parsed )
English
translation at the Voltaire Foundation, University of Oxford
( http://www.voltaire.ox.ac.uk/x_voltfnd/etc/e-texts/prose/voltaire/index_prose_candi.html )
Candide by Voltaire
- electronic text
( http://www.elook.org/literature/voltaire/candide/ )
A letter written by
Voltaire
to the
Journal encyclopédique
in which the author denies
being the author of Candide:
[2]
( http://humanities.uchicago.edu/homes/VSA/Candide/Candide.letter.html )
Twelve Monkeys
.
Twelve Monkeys
is a
science fiction
conspiracy theory
movie
directed
by former
Monty Python
member
Terry
Gilliam
and inspired by the short film
La Jetée .
It deals with problems of time and memory, and features a memorable performance
by
Brad
Pitt
as a seriously deranged animal liberationist.
Spoiler warning :
Plot or ending
details follow.
Bruce Willis
stars as James Cole, who believes
he has been sent to our time from a future in which apocalyptic events (initiated
by a group calling itself the Army of the Twelve Monkeys) have killed 90%
of humanity and forced the survivors into a bleak subterranean existence;
his mission is to study the events leading up to the apocalypse. Alternatively
Cole could be just plain insane.
On his arrival back in
1996 , Cole is
arrested and institutionalised, whereupon he encounters Jeffrey Goines (Brad
Pitt's character) and also meets Dr Kathryn Railly ( Madeleine Stowe ), an expert in insanity related
to prophecy. Initially Railly has Cole down as delusional, but as events
unfold she begins to take him seriously.
Struggling with his own sanity, Cole, assisted by Railly, strives
to unravel the mystery of the Army of the Twelve Monkeys. As Railly starts
to believe his story, Cole begins to doubt his own knowledge of the future.
In the end it transpires that Goines and the Twelve Monkeys were not responsible
for the spread of the disease which afflicted mankind but another person altogether...
Trivia
Towards the end of
Twelve Monkeys
there is a scene set in
a movie theater. The film seen playing in the background of these shots is
Alfred Hitchcock 's
Vertigo , and the scene that appears is
that of Scottie and Madeleine in
Big Basin Redwoods State Park
where Madeleine looks at the
growth
rings
of a felled
giant
redwood
and traces back events in her past life as
Carlotta Valdez
("here I was born...
and here I died"). As well as obviously resonating with larger themes in
Twelve Monkeys , this scene can also be considered Gilliam's
tip of the hat to
Chris Marker , whose
La Jetée
inspired
Twelve Monkeys .
La Jetée
features images
of tree rings in several museum scenes, and the connection between
La
Jetée
and the scene from
Vertigo
is also observed explicitly
by Marker in his 1982 documentary montage
Sans Soleil .
A "making of" documentary about the film,
The Hamster
Factor and Other Tales of Twelve Monkeys , was made by
Keith Fulton
and
Louis Pepe .
Technical data
writing credits:
David Webb Peoples ,
Janet Peoples
music:
Paul Buckmaster ,
Tom Waits ,
Bernard Herrmann
(from Hitchcock's "Vertigo")
runtime: 129 minutes
sound: DTS-Stereo / DTS
aspect ratio: 1.85 : 1
release date: January 5, 1996 (USA)
budget: $29,000,000
BBFC
Certificate: 15
MPAA rating: R
External links
IMDb entry
for
Twelve Monkeys
( http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0114746/ )
A Clockwork Orange
.
A Clockwork Orange
is a
dystopian
1962
novel
by
Anthony Burgess , adapted as a film by
Stanley Kubrick
in
1971 . It is widely
regarded as a successor to earlier great
British
dystopian novels such as
Nineteen Eighty-Four
and
Brave New World .
Burgess wrote that the title came from an old
Cockney
expression, "As queer [meaning strange] as a clockwork orange", but that
he had found that other people read new meanings into it 1 . For
instance, some believed that the title referred to a mechanically-responsive
(clockwork) non-human (orang,
Malay
for person). Burgess states in his later
introduction, "A Clockwork Orange Resucked", that a creature who can only
perform good or evil is "a clockwork orange -- meaning that he has the appearance
of an organism lovely with colour and juice but is in fact only a clockwork
toy to be wound up by God or the Devil." Rumour had it that Burgess had intended
to name the work "A Clockwork Orang" and was thus
hypercorrected
to the form we know. In his essay
"Clockwork oranges" 2
he says that "this title would be appropriate
for a story about the application of Pavlovian, or mechanical, laws to an
organism which, like a fruit, was capable of colour and sweetness". This
title alludes to the protagonist's conditional negativistic responses to
feelings of evil which prevent the exercise of his free will.
The book was inspired by an event in
1944 , when Burgess'
pregnant wife Lynn was robbed and beaten by four
US
soldiers in a
London
street, aborting the pregnancy 3 .
Spoiler warning :
Plot or ending
details follow.
Contents
[ show hide ]
1 Synopsis
2 Film
3 Spin-offs
4
Unrealized adaptations
5 Soundtrack
6 References
7
Related topics
8
External links
Synopsis
Set a few years in the future, it follows the career of fifteen year
old Alex. His main pleasures in life are
classical music , sex --- both consensual and
otherwise --- and random acts of
violence
("ultraviolence" in Alex's idiom). He tells his story in a teenage slang called
" Nadsat ",
which uses a
Russian
vocabulary mixed with
English
slang.
Eventually Alex is caught and "rehabilitated" by a programme of
aversion therapy , which, though rendering him
incapable of violence (even in self-defence), also makes him unable to enjoy
his favourite classical music as an unintended
side
effect .
The
moral question
of the book is that Alex is
now " good ",
but his ability to choose this has been taken away from him; his "goodness"
is as artificial as the clockwork orange of the title.
Eventually Alex falls afoul of some of his former victims, and the
political fuss that ensues results in the state removing his conditioning;
he gleefully returns to his early habits but finds he has lost the taste
for it. The 20th chapter ends on a dark note, with Alex listening joyfully
to
Beethoven's Ninth Symphony , and eagerly
anticipating his return to creating havoc.
At this point some editions of the book end, but there is a 21st chapter
which was dropped at the time of US publication. Burgess claims that the original
American publisher dropped his final chapter in an effort to make the book
more depressing. The intended book was divided into three parts of 7 chapters
each, which added up to be 21, a symbolic age at which a child earns his
rights (when the novel was written). There is controversy as to whether the
21st chapter makes the book better or makes the book worse. In the 21st chapter,
which takes place a few years after the 20th, we find Alex realising that
his violent phase is over, but that it was inevitable. A few of the old characters
are reincarnated as new friends of Alex. He thinks of starting a family,
while thinking that his children will be as violent as he was, for a time.
Film
The book was adapted into a film by
Stanley Kubrick
in
1971 , starring
Malcolm McDowell
as Alex and featuring a soundtrack
by
Wendy Carlos . It would appear, from one of Burgess'
later novels,
The Clockwork Testament , that Burgess himself may
not have been too pleased by the adaptation that made it to the screen.
Rated
X
on its original release in the United States, the film was nonetheless
nominated for an
Academy Award for Best Picture
(it lost to
The French Connection ) and reinvigorated
sales for recordings of
Beethoven 's ninth symphony. Later, a censored
R-rated version was also released in the US; both the original X-rated and
the later R-rated version are today available on
VHS
and
DVD . Notably, the
MPAA
has
since reclassified the X-rated version of the film to R. The film was rated
C
(for "condemned") by the United States Catholic Conference's
Office for Film and Broadcasting because of its explicit sexual and violent
content (such a rating conceptually forbade Catholics from seeing the film
so rated; the "condemned" rating was abolished in
1982 , and since
then films deemed by the conference to have unacceptable levels of sex and/or
violence have been rated
O , meaning "morally offensive").
In
Britain
the
sexual violence
in the film was considered extreme
at the time, with the press blaming the influence of the film for an attack
on a homeless person. It was widely believed that Kubrick's annoyance at
this response led to him withdrawing the film from distribution in the United
Kingdom. However, in a television documentary made after Kubrick's death,
his widow Christiane confirmed rumours that Kubrick had withdrawn A Clockwork
Orange from UK distribution on police advice after threats were made against
Kubrick and his family. (The source of the threats was not discussed.) That
Warner Bros. acceded to Kubrick's request to withdraw the film is an indication
of the remarkable relationship Kubrick had with the studio, particularly
the executive Terry Semel. Whatever the reason for the film's withdrawal,
it could not easily be seen in Britain for some 27 years, until after Kubrick's
death.
Spin-offs
Seven years prior to Stanley Kubrick's production of
A Clockwork
Orange , Andy Warhol had produced a low-budget, artistic version, titled
Clockwork
(also known as
Vinyl ). Reportedly, the only
two recognizable scenes are those where Victor (Alex) wreaks general havoc
and undergoes the Ludovico treatment.
Cast Information,
Short Synopsis and Stills
( http://www.geocities.com/malcolmtribute/aco/vinyl.html )
Internet Movie Database entry
on
Vinyl
( http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0215619 )
In 1995, a highly-acclaimed pornographic video, titled
A Clockwork
Orgy , was produced. The video remains very close to Stanley Kubrick's
version, in its high-quality sets, production values, and reasonably coherent
storyline. The only illogical (but necessary) nuance is that Burgess's "ultraviolence"
is replaced by "ultra-sex," and the men "attacked" by Alex(andra) and her
"droogs" have a really hard time pretending to be abused.
Cast Information,
Short Synopsis and Stills (Partial Nudity)
( http://www.geocities.com/malcolmtribute/aco/acoorgy.html )
Unrealized adaptations
Members of
The Rolling Stones
proposed to film their
own adaptation before
Stanley Kubrick
decided to do so. Other unrealized
versions were to contain girls in miniskirts or senior citizens instead of
the teenage rowdies.
Soundtrack
As with most major movie releases, a soundtrack was issued for
A
Clockwork Orange . It may be considered to be a monumental album in that
it contains a "first": the song "March From A Clockwork Orange" was the first
recorded song to feature the use of a
vocoder .
It is available on the Warner Bros. label and the tracks are as follows:
Title Music From A Clockwork Orange -
Walter
Carlos
The Thieving Magpie (Abridged) - A Deutsche Grammophon Recording
Theme From A Clockwork Orange (Beethoviana) - Walter Carlos
Ninth Symphony, Second Movement (Abridged) - A Deutsche Grammophon
Recording
March From A Clockwork Orange (Ninth Symphony, Fourth Movement,
Abridged) - Walter Carlos and Rachel Elkind
William Tell Overture (Abridged) - Walter Carlos
Pomp And Circumstance March No. 1 - Sir Edward Elgar
Pomp And Circumstance March No. IV (Abridged) - Sir
Edward
Elgar
Timesteps (Excerpt) - Walter Carlos
Overture To The Sun - Terry Tucker
I Want To Marry A Lighthouse Keeper - Erike Eigen
William Tell Overture (Abridged)- A Deutsche Grammophon Recording
Suicide Scherzo (Ninth Symphony, Second Movement, Abridged) - Walter
Carlos
Ninth Symphony, Fourth Movement, (Abridged) - A Deutsche Grammophon
Recording
Singin' In The Rain -
Gene Kelly
Three months after the official soundtrack was released, composer
Wendy Carlos
released a version (Columbia KC 31480)
containing unused cues and other musical elements which had not appeared
in the film. Kubrick had only used part of Carlos's
Timesteps , for
example, and the
synthesizer
rendition of the Scherzo from Beethoven's
Ninth Symphony
had been shortened. In addition to these materials,
the second soundtrack LP contained a synthesizer version of Rossini's
La
Gazza Ladra , for which Kubrick had used an orchestral performance. In
1998 , a
compact disc was distributed containing a new, digital remastering of the
synthesizer material. The CD contains Carlos's compositions, including those
Kubrick did not use, and the cues
Biblical Daydreams
and
Orange
Minuet
which the 1972 LP had not included.
It is interesting to note that Wendy Carlos had composed the first
three minutes of
Timesteps
before reading Burgess's novel. Originally,
Carlos had intended
Timesteps
to introduce a rendition of the
Ninth
Symphony
's Choral movement, played with a vocoder.
Timesteps
was completed roughly the same time Kubrick had wrapped photography for his
film; it and the vocoder performance of Beethoven's
Ninth
became
the foundation for Carlos and Kubrick's collaboration.
References
1
A Clockwork Orange: A play with music
Century
Hutchinson Ltd, 1987. An extract is quoted on several web sites:
1
( http://pers-www.wlv.ac.uk/~fa1871/burgess.html )
2
( http://pages.eidosnet.co.uk/johnnymoped/aclockworktestament/aclockworktestament_anthonyburgessonaclockworkorange_page2.html )
3
( http://kubricks0.tripod.com/burgesam.htm )
2
Clockwork Oranges : in
1985 , Anthony
Burgess, Hutchinson, 1978
ISBN 0091360803 . Extracts quoted
here
( http://pages.eidosnet.co.uk/johnnymoped/aclockworktestament/aclockworktestament_beingtheadventures_page1.html ) .
3 Gore Vidal 'Why I am 8 years younger than Anthony Burgess'
United
States
p411.
Related topics
List of movies
List of actors
List of directors
List of documentaries
List of Hollywood movie studios
External links
Internet Movie Database entry
on
A Clockwork Orange
( http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0066921 )
Official site
( http://www.clockworkorange.com/ )
Review by Tim Dirks at filmsite.org
( http://www.filmsite.org/cloc.html )
Quotes from "A Clockwork
Orange" at Wikiquote
( http://en.wikiquote.org/wiki/A_Clockwork_Orange )
Clockwork Orange
is also the nickname of
Glasgow Underground , the SPT
metro
line of
Glasgow, Scotland .