Migraines /=/ Headaches - The Lame Dame
The Lame Dame
RSS
Jun
20
Migraines /=/ Headaches
carathebug :
Space-Aged Art Blog: Migraines /= Headaches
aged-space :
I just wanted to say that after a stupid comment somebody made to me yesterday. Yes, there is the worst headache you have ever experienced thing going on when you have a migraine, but migraines differ from run of the mill headaches because
they will fuck you up
in so many other ways. Here’s the
wiki page , check under the ‘pain’ section to see all the wonderful things that can possibly go on whilst having a migraine.
Sorry for the mini rant, but there are so many people that have to deal with migraines, and this stigma that they are just really bad headaches needs to go away.
I love you, Spacey!
And yes it’s true. Best current research indicates a migraine is a lot more like a frontal lobe seizure than a headache. They don’t even always come with pain! I literally almost died before the docs figured me out, because of that.So spread the word! It might actually save a life.
The pain of migraine is invariably accompanied by other features.   Nausea occurs in more than 90%  of patients, and vomiting occurs in about one third of patients.  Blurred vision,    photophobia ,  phonophobia ,  osmophobia ,   delirium, nasal stuffiness, diarrhea,  tinnitus ,  polyuria ,  pallor , or sweating may be noted during the headache phase. There may be localized  edema  of the scalp or face, scalp tenderness, prominence of a vein or artery in the temple, or stiffness and tenderness of the neck. Impairment of concentration and mood are common. The extremities tend to feel cold and moist .  Vertigo  may be experienced; a variation of the typical migraine, called  vestibular migraine , has also been described. Lightheadedness, rather than true vertigo,   and a feeling of faintness may occur.
I also get this weird eye droop thing, one eyelid will drop to half mast, almost like a stroke.
Reblogged 3 years ago
from
pilferingapples
Comments
14 notes
migraine ,
migraine symptoms ,
migraines suck hard core ,
My Words ,
Tweet
View the discussion thread
Blog comments powered by
Disqus
texasuberalles
reblogged this from
pilferingapples tenereandruid
reblogged this from
thelamedame
and added: …………or my personal ‘favourite’ migraine …..a variant of hemiplegic migraine…..which leaves the suffer a para or a... tenereandruid
likes this tser
reblogged this from
thelamedame katisconfused
likes this thelamedame
reblogged this from
pilferingapples
and added: The pain of migraine is invariably accompanied by other features. Nausea occurs in more than 90% of patients, and... daleksdontcry
likes this pilferingapples
likes this pilferingapples
reblogged this from
aged-space
and added: I love you, Spacey! And yes it’s true. Best current research indicates a migraine is a lot more like a frontal lobe... arealgreg
likes this aged-space
posted this
About
The Lame Dame
I'm a fashionable femme with a cane.
This blog is a safe space for cripples of all kinds, and I regularly feature pictures of people with disabilities in an effort to normalize disability representation. This is a submission based blog, so if you feel something is missing, please submit
About
Gallery Gallery Explanation Stuff To Read My Words
Ask me anything
Submit
Archive
Copyright © 2012–2015
The Lame Dame . Powered by
Tumblr .
Simple Things
theme by
Dan Hauk .