July | 2012 | Terribly Sorry
Terribly Sorry
Reach for the stars…
Month:
July 2012
Post navigation
My love to the films of the 30’s and the 40’s.. and the 50’s
Posted by
Terribly Sorry
0
I love films.
I love old films.
I love old film stars.
I love old film everything.
Old = hmm…. for now I’m gonna talk about the 30’s and 40’s. But there are films I love from the 50’s, 60’s and 70’s and 80’s and 90’s so yeah, I’m not sure where ‘Old’ begins!!
Bear with me, now.
Ok, I’ll add in the 50’s for good measure. Yay!
Basically, I’m trawling those excellent Wikipedia lists at the moment, more accurately:
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/1930s_in_film
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/1940s_in_film
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/1950s_in_film
there that says it all really!!
Let’s start with the 30’s.
Gosh I love those beautiful 30’s film stars… But let’s save that for later shall we?
First, some context from lovely Wikipedia:
“The decade of the  1930s in film  involved many significant films. 1939 was one of the biggest years (and still is one of the greatest years) in  Hollywood .”
Oooooh!
“Many full-length films were produced during the decade of the 1930s. The 1930s were a decade of  political  turmoil and economic problems; the great depression had affected the entire world, and Europe was dealing with both the fallout of World War I and the economic hardships of the time, both of which resulted in the rise of fascist political movements. The uncertainty of the era resulted in widespread popularity of fantastical, escapist fare. Swashbuckling adventures and the safe scares of the Universal Horror films were highly successful during this period.”
Hmm. I am not acquainted with ‘Universal Horror films’.
However I know some lovely ‘swashbuckling ones’!! Cough *Errol Flynn* Cough.
“1930 also marks the beginning of what is considered to be the  ‘golden age’ of Hollywood , a period which lasted through at least the 1940s.”
Aw, that’s really sweet!! Come on Hollywood, what are you now??!!
Basically, below are all the films I have either heard about or watched. I would love to write reviews about all of these later on.
The Adventures of Robin Hood  (1938) starring Errol Flynn and Olivia de Havilland! A must see, please!! So feel good.. and um, Errol Flynn is very good looking of course..
All Quiet on the Western Front  (1930) Such a tearjerker! World War One..
Gone with the Wind  (1939) Argh!!!! I am virtually in the process of watching this one!!!! (It’s 238 minutes long…. all the better for me of course~!) Vivien Leigh, Clark Gable, Olivia de Havilland… lovelovelove. Amazing filming, love it already.
Goodbye, Mr. Chips  (1939) I’ve only watched the beginning of this one, but my sisters and my b(r)other have watched it, and they all agree to it being an amazing, heartwarming and a veritable tearjerker… I think I should watch it during the holidays (Yep I’m on holiday now!! About time too~!)
Gulliver’s Travels  (1939) Oh yes, yes, YES!! Best animated Gulliver film ever (probably the only animated Gulliver film ever, but who cares??!!) Very very very funny.. We can all do imitations of all the characters. Much too unwatched for my liking. Watch it please!! Give it some well deserved love!
Oh dear, only 5 films I know from the 1930’s —– !!
However all this could change in a few years…
Now for the 1940’s. Wikipedia, come here~
“The  decade  of the  1940s in film  involved many significant films. Hundreds of full-length films were produced during the decade of the 1940s. The great actor  Humphrey Bogart  made his most memorable films in this decade.  Orson Welles ‘s masterpiece Citizen Kane  was also released. The  film noir  genre was at its height.”
Hmm.. er, what’s ‘film noir’?
“ Film noir  is a  cinematic  term used primarily to describe stylish  Hollywood   crime dramas , particularly those that emphasize cynical attitudes and sexual motivations.”
Right then!! Let’s move on… ^^;;;
Bambi  (1942) Bambi lovers, please don’t murder me when I saw I have not watched this properly… *Dodges thrown objects*…. I intend to!! Please!!
Bicycle Thieves  (1947) I watched this a while ago, it’s an Italian film. I remember being affected by the hardness of life for the unemployed.. features the stealing of a bicycle and it’s consequences… Sniff, sniff.
The Great Dictator  (1940) I haven’t seen this one (yet) but it’s a Charlie Chaplin, and Charlie Chaplin rocks!
It’s a Wonderful Life  (1946) Oh dear, how can I explain the love I have for this film??!! A must see for Christmas, everyone! How George Bailey decides not to commit suicide through his guardian angel. Intriguing, non?! J’adore ca!!
National Velvet  (1944) Haven’t seen it, it stars Mickey Rooney and a young Elizabeth Taylor.
Pinocchio  (1940) I’m serious here, what more can I say? WATCH IT. teehee
The Three Caballeros  (1944) I watched this Disney animation very young… all I remember now was that I was intrigued and enthralled by the impression of crazy nonsensical almost psychedelic coolness of it all. To be honest, I got no idea of what it was about when I was watching it.. Oh well, it has Donald Duck, right?! That should be enough. I really want to watch it again… but then I’d get a new impression of it.. but still.            Argh!!         Just had a session  of Wikipedia!!! The memories are all flooding back!! YAY.
One quote from Wikipedia: “A kiss, or several to be exact, lead to Donald going into the phrase “Love is a drug.” This scene is similar to “ Pink Elephants on Parade ,” for being a major “ drunk ” scene. Donald constantly envisions sugar rush colors, flowers, and Panchito and Jose popping in at the worst moments. The scene changes after Donald manages to dance with a woman from the  state of Oaxaca , from the  Isthmus of Tehuantepec . The two dance to the song “La Sandunga.” The woman begins by singing the song, with Donald “quacking” out the rest of the chorus. The “drunkenness” slows down for a moment, but speeds up again when a Mexican woman uses a conductor’s stick to make  cacti  do just about anything while dancing “ Jesusita en Chihuahua “, a trademark song of the Mexican Revolution. This is a notable scene for live action and cartoon animation mixing, as well as animation among the cacti.”
Is that psychedelic or not???!!!
Hmm, 7 films from the 1940’s. An improvement no doubt… but not good enough!!
Now for the 1950’s!!!!!!!
WOW, the film list just suddenly got bigger!!
Some Wikipedia for you:
“The decade of the  1950s in film  involved many significant films.”
HA.
Understatement.
Alice in Wonderland  (1951) I haven’t seen it, but would like to. Many stereotypical images of the characters are based on the way they look in this Disney animation. And besides, you hates Alice in Wonderland?
Ben-Hur  (1959) OKAY. WHERE DO I BEGIN. Actually, I’m not going to harm myself doing this. In fact, I’ll just have to write a review about it. Sorry folks. (In a nutshell, WATCH IT.)
Cinderella  (1950) Wow~ I love this Disney so much!! Watched it one Christmas with everyone.. so well made, and so pretty…
Funny Face  (1957) To my greatest regret I haven’t watched this, but it’s on my list!! Audrey Hepburn + Fred Astaire loving you!! Iconic imagery (just you know the whole ‘eye candy’ thing). I MUST HAVE..
Gentlemen Prefer Blondes  (1953) Well you don’t say…. Apart from being a little disgruntled by the title, since I’ve never seen a Marilyn Monroe before, maybe it’s the time to start.
Gigi  (1958) Well, seeing as it won 9 Oscars, it must have something appealing in it!!
The King and I  (1956) I wanna see it so bad!!! It’s just a little annoying the world and I practically already knows what will happen in it… Who cares!! Yul Brynner + Deborah Kerr, come to me!!!
Lady and the Tramp  (1955) Aw!! I had no idea it was made in the 50’s (silly me..). I don’t remember much of it, though I do remember that iconic and super sweet scene of Lady and Tramp sharing a bowl of spaghetti and accidentally kissing… My dream date of course!!
Peter Pan  (1953)
Whoever has not watched and loved Peter Pan must be fed to the ticking crocodile!!!!
Ahem. No, seriously. Watch it. It’s fantastic.
Rear Window  (1954) My sister watched this Alfred Hitchcock starring James Stewart and GRACE KELLY. Adore the woman. I want to watch it too!! Ps. the clothes are to die for?!
Roman Holiday  (1953) SUCH.A.GOOD.FILM. You have to watch it to understand why. So funny. So nicely and perfectly filmed. Love. Audrey Hepburn. Love. Gregory Peck. Love. Rome. Love. This film.
Seven Brides for Seven Brothers  (1954) Oh Lord. MY CHILDHOOD!!!!!  love it love it love it!! The dancing! The music!! The songs!!! the Seven Brothers!!!!!!! Definitely a favourite of mine…
:)
The Seven Year Itch  (1955) I wanna see it. If only for the famous Marilyn Monroe flying white skirt subway thing.
Singin’ in the Rain  (1952) I wanna see it. If only for that song!!
Sleeping Beauty  (1959) Another great Disney! For once there’s a prince who actually does something useful! Properly a little scary though most people pretend not to be scared..
Some Like It Hot  (1959) Er, cos it’s a Marilyn Monroe and because it’s so famous?! Okay!
South Pacific  (1958) I need to see this!!! If only because of the music and crazy songs!!
The Ten Commandments  (1956) Charlton Heston. Yul Brynner. Charlton Heston. Anne Baxter. Charlton Heston. Charlton Heston with a beard. NEED I SAY MORE??????? Love it. Like. Crazy.
Vertigo  (1958) An Alfred Hitchcock. Watched the beginning, now want to watch the end. Unfortunately I already know what happens.. because I read the article on it from Wikipedia. Dang it!!
War and Peace  (1956) I want to watch it!! Audrey Hepburn!!! And because of the famous novel
:)
P.S. I found a film called ‘The Blob’ and another called ‘Boobs in the Woods’!!!!! HAHAHA
Well, the 1950’s went better didn’t it? 20 films!
Right, that left me exhausted…. sensory overload?
Let’s save the 60’s, 70’s and 80’s for another day.. Oh my..
Watch lots of good films in the holidays everyone!
P.S. I might do a post on the famous film stars of these eras. And why I love them. YIPPEE!!!
Just for my pleasure:
Golden Age of Hollywood. 1st row, l-r:  Greta Garbo ,  Humphrey Bogart ,  Lauren Bacall , Clark Gable ,  Katharine Hepburn ,  Fred Astaire ,  Ginger Rogers ,  Marlon Brando ,  Marx Brothers ,  Joan Crawford . 2nd row, l-r:  John Wayne ,  James Stewart ,  Buster Keaton , Claudette Colbert ,  Gene Kelly ,  Burt Lancaster ,  Judy Garland ,  Gregory Peck ,  Elizabeth Taylor , Kirk Douglas . 3rd row, l-r:  Bette Davis ,  Audrey Hepburn ,  Jean Harlow ,  Alfred Hitchcock , John Ford ,  Howard Hawks  and Lauren Bacall,  Grace Kelly ,  Laurence Olivier ,  Marlene Dietrich ,  James Cagney . 4th row, l-r:  Ava Gardner ,  Cary Grant ,  Ingrid Bergman ,  Henry Fonda ,  Marilyn Monroe ,  James Dean ,  Orson Welles ,  Mae West ,  William Holden ,  Sophia Loren . 5th row, l-r:  Vivien Leigh ,  Joan Fontaine  and  Gary Cooper ,  Spencer Tracy ,  Barbara Stanwyck ,  Lillian Gish ,  Tyrone Power ,  Shirley Temple ,  Janet Leigh  and  Charlton Heston ,  Rita Hayworth ,  Mary Pickford .
I love you all.
Posted in
Film Fancying
Tagged
30's films ,
40's films ,
50's films ,
film stars ,
films ,
hollywood ,
wikipedia
Jul · 17
An Entire Retel…
Posted by
Terribly Sorry
0
An Entire Retelling of my encounter with Baz Luhrmann’s
Romeo + Juliet
OK, so we come into our English lesson in Period Two, and there’s something paused on the projected screen.
On it, there’s an old man, and someone who my friend recognizes as Mike from friends – Paul Rudd. Ah, I say. The guy from Clueless. We both agree. It carries on. They are now talking in a sauna, and then somewhere else. Pretty fast paced, this film is, I thought. I don’t understand, really…
And THEN. The next scene: a pool table place. And there, just there in front of my astounded face is the beautiful angel face of LEONARDO DI CAPRIO. YOUNG. WITH A SQUEAKY VOICE.
Why hello there, gorgeous
My friend and I practically died. We were screaming silently all through that scene. Oh my gosh, he’s so beautiful. Oh my gosh, I love him. I kind of gasped, grinning like an idiot, every time I saw his face. I couldn’t believe I was actually watching Baz Luhrmann’s Romeo + Juliet. Now I got that the old man and Paul Rudd were actually Lord Capulet and Count Paris. AH, I was mentally screaming. AH. HIS VOICE. QUITE HIGH. HIS LOOKS! SO YOUNG! I sat there in a daze, now and again (every few seconds) breathing down my poor friend’s obliging neck to whisper things like ‘Isn’t he so GORGEOUS?!’. Thankyou, friend, for not batting me away. Perhaps you should have.
Skip to Capulet’s place. Down a golden staircase where drastic preparations for the upcoming party are taking place, a very heavily made-up Lady Capulet, flashing her underwear from under her robe, is screaming for Juliet. ‘JULIE-E-E-E-E-E-T!!!’ her red mouth shrieks. She is grotesque. The Nurse joins in. ‘JULI-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-T!!!!!’ It’s getting on my nerves. My nerves are cooled by the sight of Juliet underwater, eyes open, her hair floating dreamily around her face. She breaks the surface of the water of the bath. ‘I’m here, mother, what is your will?’ I like Claire Danes as Juliet. She has the right amount of intriguing beauty in her face. I’m also incredibly jealous of her.
Gawsh. Juliet’s mum is super freaky. She moves so quickly, and now she’s dressed up like Cleopatra and she can’t communicate with Juliet without the nurse present, and she moves like she’s fast forwarded and I don’t like her. Sweat, sweat. I see her kissing another man later on, so she’s also adulterous. Disgusting.
To Romeo! Love love. A car rolls up with ‘Mercutio’ on the number plate.Out steps out the man himself. With a silver wig and a glittering bra and skirt. Snigger. They all joke around together. The ‘fairy Mabs’ scene comes out again. Comparing it with the same scene from Zeffirelli’s version, there’s not much difference.
Thou talkst of nothing!’ and all. Except I like Luhrmann’s Romeo better. Not that Zeffirelli’s Romeo is at all bad (he’s gorgeous), it’s just that he looks a little too much like Zac Efron for my comfort. Better than Zac, but still, similar. It’s not his fault. It’s Zac’s fault for accepting a role in High School Musical. Heck. However, Zeffirell’s Juliet is an angel. Check her out.
The ABSOLUTELY BEAUTIFUL Olivia Hussey as Juliet (Zeffirelli, 1968)
Anyways, the little speech by Romeo about a sense of forboding doom… Oh Romeo, don’t die!!! I wonder if it would’ve been better for him to never have met Juliet… but then again he experienced true love in her that he may never have found anywhere else, and true love is priceless. It’s just because I hate sad endings!! So much!! Then Romeo slowly pops a little white pill in his mouth (I have my suspicions), then a really quick cut to a really big close up of his eye as he looks up, and then everything explodes in a shower of golden fireworks. Suspicions confirmed. Onto the partay!
Baz Luhrmann does great party scenes…
My word. Such vivid images. The fireworks, the spectacle of it all, the people, Mercutio dancing on the staircase, Romeo saying ‘Drugs are fast…’ in a detached way while everything goes haywire around him. It gets too much. In the next scene he’s dunking his beautiful face in water. And dumps his mask too.
Ah. A fish tank. A sense of crazy anticipation from me. Gah. It’s so strong it’s physically painful to watch. He’s gonna meet Juliet. Down, down his eye travels, looking at the fish, when he sees an eye looking at him through the tank. They both bolt upright. They stare. They smile. They laugh, they lean towards each other. It’s the sweetest scene. I think my heart may never be the same. And then her nurse takes her away, but Juliet keeps looking back all the time, and Romeo’s running, where is she? Where is she?
Err… hello gorgeous stranger on the other side of the fish tank?
Oh my! There’s a gorgeous stranger on the other side of the fish tank!!!
Errm… great party! BTW I think you’re the most beautiful person I’ve ever seen. Just to let you know…
She’s dancing with Paul Rudd (Count Paris) in a spacesuit, but even when she’s dancing with the man she’s expected to marry, she keeps looking at Romeo with such a lovely expression on her face. Lucky bunny. Romeo’s in glorious shock. He can’t take his eyes off her.
And then… ahh how sweet~!! There’s now a smushy slow ballad being sung. So romantic. Romeo sneakily takes Juliet’s hand. He kisses it, saying something lovely like ‘I’m profaning this holy shrine by touching it with my lips, but you don’t mind, do you?’ Of course she doesn’t.
I’m dirtying your saintly hands with my unworthy ones but I’ll kiss your hands better, so that’s ok then??
She laughs, and then he sneakily tries to kiss her (this is like 5 seconds after they started talking – fast paced!!) but she eludes him. And then escaping from prying eyes (Juliet’s mother and Paris in particular), they escape quickly into the elevator. Pretty elevator. But even prettier is what happens inside… and oh my word.
They kiss.
O.o
ARGHHHHHHHHH BEST BIT EVERRR
Now I am the one in shock. Romeo’s a great kisser. This is basically my definition of the perfect kiss. Imagine having your first kiss at a crazy party, having met a
Leonardo di Caprio
lookalike, seeing him through a fishtank, and then finally having your kiss going up in a lift, then going down in a lift. And dodging the parents while you’re at it. Bliss.
‘I will wash my sin again…’ breathes Romeo, and moves in again… Oh hell! Oh heaven! The doors open and they fly apart. On going out Juliet see’s her mother with Paris and frantically, she shoves Leo’s chest and pushes him into the lift as quick as lightning for another kiss. It’s so beautiful. It’s like a dream. The derogatory satirical part of my brain not touched by the Romeo fever was thinking – ‘That would’ve been a very fun part to act. A
very
fun part…’ meaning Juliet. Lucky, lucky Claire Danes.
Did you know Natalie Portman was originally chosen to play Juliet, but that she looked so young it seemed as if Leo was molesting her in the kissing parts?! Poor Natalie. Left out in such an iconic film and the envy of all girls worldwide. The doors open again, and they are caught by Juliet’s nurse. She glances at Romeo disapprovingly and drags Juliet away again.
She’s looking back, he’s chasing after. Again. But then she’s going up the staircase and the smile slowly fades from Romeo’s face. No, don’t! You want to shout. Don’t do this to yourself, Romeo! This will be the death of you! ‘She’s a Capulet…’ he whispers, beaten. My heart broke in two. This is the beginning of the end of Romeo!
His friends take him away, but he keeps looking back with that heart-rending expression. His friends are driving away in that amazing car, while Juliet watches them from a balcony. Then Romeo can take it no longer. He jumps from the car and dashes off. ‘Romeo!’ shout his friends. They soon give up and go. Romeo gatecrashes Capulet’s amazing home once again. He scrambles in the dark, then accidentally sets off all the pretty fairy lights in the garden. He climbs up to what he thinks is Juliet’s balcony in anticipation, but turns away in disgust at Capulet’s face. Then, Juliet enters the garden. Romeo’s still on the trellis.
‘Oh, Romeo, Romeo, wherefore art thou, Romeo?’ Juliet sighs. She goes on about the meaninglessness of names; Romeo listens in pleasure as she says she would even renounce the name of Capulet for him. We see a dark shadow stepping up behind her. ‘Juliet, I – ‘he begins. The camera cuts to Juliet’s face as she screams, then cuts away to show them both fall into the swimming pool.
ahhhhh! the pool kissing
Cue another sweet scene of underwater kissing.
After the initial surprise they go to a secluded part of the pool. A security guy comes to check out the commotion but Juliet shows herself so he’s satisfied. When he’s gone, Romeo, who has been slowly drowning beside her feet, bursts out for air. Too loudly. I get an uneasy feeling that Romeo’s a little brash and clumsy.
Aw, they’re so sweet, just drifting about in the pool, so in love. Wouldn’t that have been such a perfect ending for a short film titled ‘Love at first sight’? But no. We have to kill them both off. Life is unfair…
I’ve just been crying my eyes out watching the death scene. WHY WHY WHY. It was so beautiful though. All the candles. Just one question… WHY HADN’T SHE WOKEN UP EVEN 5 SECONDS EARLIER?! …
MY CONDENSED VERSION OF THE DEATH SCENE
NOOOO!!!! JULIET’S DEAD!!!!! WHY BOTHER LIVING ANY MORE???!!
Right, I’ve got my poison. Now it’s time to say goodbye…
Oh, my… How can she look so beautiful even when she’s dead…?
The chamber was full of light… Oh, my Juliet..
My love? My wife?… Why did it have to end like this…
Lips… take one last kiss..
Juliet…. *sob*… I will meet you again!!! *swallows poison*
WHAT!!!!!! JULIET… YOU’RE ALIVE????!!!!!!!
What have you DONE??!!!!
Oh no…. NO……
You’ve left me all alone….
Well, if this is what it takes to stay together… *positions gun*… I’m doing it. *BANG*
THE END…
I wish I was around when Leonardo di Caprio was THE man. He was bigger than… than (I hate to say this name) Justin Bieber ever was or will be…
Well, that’s that.
After watching R+J I was in an R+J mood all day until we watched Chariots of Fire and then got into a Chariots of Fire mood… Baz Luhrmann’s Romeo+Juliet. A film I’d desperately needed in my life. Finally. Hmm.
Posted in
1951-2000 ,
Film ,
Reviews
Tagged
baz luhrmann ,
claire danes ,
death scene ,
fish tank ,
leonard whiting ,
leonardo dicaprio ,
olivia hussey ,
romeo and juliet
Jul · 13
Post navigation
And you are…?
A little girl in the great intellectual city of Oxford embarking on a literary odyssey from books as diverse as 'The Little Prince' to 'The Pickwick Papers' to the 'Iliad', and telling you all about it. The Book-Devourer lives!
When she is not reading, this insatiable one is also going Art, Fashion, Film and Music mad. Call her the Renaissance-Muse. 90's babe of the 21st century. She also occasionally eats, drinks and sleeps too (and she's one for milk coffee and good Lindt chocolate of course).
Occasionally dabbles in writing, liking short stories some of which she has shared with you. Is now writing an extraordinary love story...
The Me: What I Am
I like shopping, painting, make-up, designing, cool phones ^^, taking pictures, music (mostly K-pop and classical), going to the movies, white coffee :3, nail polish and daydreaming...
Areas of Fascination 1850-1900
1951-2000
2001-Present
Books
Dramas
Film
Film Fancying
How to do Stuff
Korea
Literary Love
Little Flights of Fancy
Personal Ramblings
Prehistoric
Rants
Reviews
The Arts, Fashion, Beauty
Thinking things
Want to follow me?
Enter your email address to follow this me and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Join 21 other followers
Her over the years
March 2013
December 2012
November 2012
October 2012
September 2012
August 2012
July 2012
June 2012
May 2012
April 2012
March 2012
February 2012
January 2012
December 2011
November 2011
October 2011
September 2011
Enter le crazy world of Terribly Sorry …
i cannot be but what i am and if you cannot except me for what i am you are not worth being with .... the girl with the psyche of a cassandra and the words of a muse. and one word... believe.
Blog Stats
20,929 hits
Blogroll
Discuss
Get Inspired
Get Polling
Get Support
Learn WordPress.com
Theme Showcase
WordPress Planet
WordPress.com News
Blog at WordPress.com .
|
The Reddle Theme .
Follow
Follow “Terribly Sorry”
Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.
Build a website with WordPress.com