Joe Petagno - vintage original sixties 60s black light posters
THE HOUSTON FREEBURG COLLECTION Main Navigation
Home Page
BG0 to BG289
FD1 to FD147 & Denver
BG Cards Handbills
FD Cards Handbills
Art of Rock
Neon Rose
Grande Ballroom
Hapshash/Osiris/Europe
Black Light, etc.
Hambly
East Totem West
Peter Max
Third Eye
Pro Arts
Pandora
Steve Sachs
Joe Petagno
Beatles
Politics/War
Drugs
PEACE & LOVE
Albums
Original Movie Posters
Fillmore Ties
Where Are They Now
Jimi's Page
Travel
Disney
Etcetera
Press
Links
Guestbook
Contact
joe petagno
- vintage original sixties 60s black light posters
Imagination and diversity characterize the works of Joe Petagno. Intricate details prevail in the execution of his psychedelic posters, which for the most part were produced by Saladin and dated a little later than his peers, 1970 to 1972. His illustrious career also boasts LP album and science fiction book covers, and even illustrations for decks of cards. Below are a few of my favorite posters.
Click on poster for more info or slide show.
In February of 2013, I had the pleasure of doing a little Q & A with Joe. Here's the transcript:
HF: I am grateful for your time in this endeavor Joe. I’ve been wanting  to expand the scope of the Petagno page on the website for some time now.
I should start by saying that “Time Out In Time” is probably my favorite Petagno piece from the psychedelic era.  I see that one offered at auction now and then, and the response is usually pretty aggressive. Can you tell me a little about that one, and what in particular inspired that theme, besides the obvious drug reference?
PETAGNO :   Most of the art I did from that period was done to either debunk childhood fantasies, to promote the legalization of pot or just provoke the status quotient.  Time out in Time was done on a trip to England where I had inadvertently stumbled across Beatrix Potters’ Tale of Jeremy Fisher.  The idea of having a frog sitting on a water Lilly smoking a pipe of hash, stoning out to the vibes of nature was  irresistible to me and perhaps (although not consciously aware of it )  it was a way of importing English childhood fantasies into the American cornucopia. The reference to time and the little harlequin playing the tune of the mushroom perched on an hour glass was a whim inferring time is a continuum. I thought if Jeremy was around in the heady environment of psychedelic California he too would surely have partaken in the rituals of the day, along with the Little Opium Annie, Smokey the Bear, Dick Tracy, Mickey and Co. etc.
HF: How long would it typically take from concept to printing of a black light poster, and what kind of money could an artist make on these things at the time?
PETAGNO :
Generally it took about 10 days to finish one of these pieces, they were done full size on illustration board without prior studies or sketches, starting with pencil and then inking with rapidograph pens in various sizes after which the pencil was erased.  Finishing off with colour separation by cutting Silk screen masks using a scalpel knife and  Rubylith film, a separate one for yellow, red and blue. If you needed more than just the primary colours you cut the same area twice to get green, purple etc.  From ‘70 to ’74,  I think I executed some 50 pieces also for other poster house’s like One stop in LA and Big O in London.  I was being paid $200.00 apiece with 7% royalties which was pretty good in those days.  I was one of the more popular designers in So. Cal at the time, producing a couple of pieces a month, sometimes 3 or 4.  It was quite lucrative…I certainly didn't need a job.
HF: What about the Saladin connection? Was there a personal,  as well as professional,  bond between the two of you that
s eemed to click at the time?
PETAGNO:
From ’67 to ’70, I had a stall in W. Hollywood at an outdoor Art fair.  It was here I was turned on to the guys at Saladin Productions. We had a great professional as well as personal relationship.
HF: I think I see a number of potential influences in your early psychedelia works. For example, Rick Griffin in “Yesterday Tomorrow”  (from his San Mescalito piece). Who would you say had the most profound effects on your work?
PETAGNO:
I was into surfing as was Rick, I was first exposed to his work in Surfer magazine in ‘64.  Yesterday and Tomorrow was a take on San Juan Mescalito. I, like so many other’s had read Castenada’s book with great interest and wanted to have a go at it too.  I included myself and some fellow stoners, including Ron Walters CEO at Saladin sitting in the tree on the right.  My early influences were Comics, Art slingers like Wally Woods, Milton Caniff and Joe Kubert as well as Aubrey Beardsley, Arthur Rackham and Durer’ woodcuts.
HF: What were your artistic goals in life back in the late 60s and early 70s? And do you feel you have achieved those goals?
PETAGNO:
Firstly I just wanted to see my work in print and get out and see the world at large.  Secondly to be able to sustain myself without having to work (in my estimation Art is not work its play) to be my own man, come go as I please, have as much personal freedom as possible and still maintain a life style.  Yes, at the age of 65 and a huge back catalogue with 3 countries under my belt,and clients worldwide,  I can honestly say I have effectively achieved these goals, don’t ask me how...I have no idea, but one things for sure, I wouldn’t have changed a thing.
To quote the Grateful Dead…”Lately it occurs to me what a long strange trip it’s been.”
HF: My love and enthusiasm for quality black light posters has not changed much since I first started collecting at the age of 14. My favorite ones then are pretty much my favorite ones now. What are some of your favorite other artists of the era?
PETAGNO:
Mouse, Kelley, Griffin, Moscoso and Crumb are all brilliant.
HF: Do you see the quality, vintage black light posters ever taking off in terms of value, say like the concert posters from the late 60s?
PETAGNO :
I would like to answer that question with a emphatic Yes, however in order for that to happen we’ll need a shift in consciousness from the material to the spiritual / mass to individual.
HF: What are you doing now, and what “unfinished business” is left to be accomplished?
PETAGNO :
Working in the Heavy /Extreme Metal business and selling my own merchandise at
www.petagno.dk
I guess one could say Petagno is still provoking the Status quo.
I’ve designed a computer game that I would like to see put into production…but that’s another story.
A rare look at a line drawing of "Time Out In Time" before it received its dayglo colours.  ©Joe Petagno
More on Petagno from Wikipedia:
Joe Petagno  (born January 1, 1948 - ) is an artist  known principally for creating images used on heavy metal album covers, for bands such as Pink Floyd, Led Zeppelin, Nazareth, Motorhead Roy Harper Marduk, Nightingshade, Illdisposed.
Petagno was born in Portland, Maine and left the United States  in 1972. He worked with Hipgnosis  before meeting Motörhead's Lemmy  in 1975, he designed "War-Pig" for the band's Motorhead album and has continued to design the majority of the album and sngle sleeve covers for the band.
He is also known for his science fiction book covers, notably for the Corgi SF Collector's Library edition of Ray Bradbury 's  The Silver Locusts  aka The Martian Chronicles . He also did non-heavy metal album covers. When Graeme Edge  left The Moody Blues he teamed up with Adrian Gurvitz  to form The Graeme Edge Band. Their two releases Kick Of our Muddy Boots released on the Decca  subsidiary label Threshold  released in 1975 as a gatefold depicted a rider on horseback in a desert coming across a dead man in American Western-style garb and even included a rendition of the Threshold swooshing face icon. Paradise Ballroom issued in 1977 was also illustrated by Petagno, this time depicting a dancing woman using mainly blues.
When Adrian Gurvitz  joined forces with Ginger Baker to form the Baker Gurvitz Army, Petagno illustrated their first two vinyl releases, the self titled The Baker Gurvitz Army 1975 on the legendary Vertigo which depicted the three members of the group on horseback; and Elysian Encounter , 1975 on the Mountain label depicted almost certainly as "spacemen" or possibly religious figures in the typical early Petagno style, fabulously exotic outfits and suits or armour.
In 1979, Petagno went with a travelling exhibition, sponsored by the Shah of Iran , visiting France an d meeting his partner, Sanne, in Denmark , where he has lived ever since.
He has produced illustrations for a deck of playingcards, commercially available as "The Deck of Death".
Petagno appeared in a rare interview on the bonus DVD when Motörhead re-issued their Inferno  album as a  30th Anniversary Birthday Edition. Javascript must be enabled to view the Photo Album on this page.
cache/wst.opf.496663.xml
Joe Petagno - Vintage original sixties 60s black light posters
Tags: Joe Petagno,vintage black light posters,sixties posters,60s posters,album cover art,psychedelic posters,psychedelic art,saladin posters,time out in time,legalize pot poster,nixon on toilet
Content copyright
. Houston Freeburg. All rights reserved.