Castro Theatre's 70MM Festival Features Classics Restored to Big-Screen Glory | 7x7
Skip to Navigation
Skip to Content
Eat + Drink
Style
Culture
Play
Tech
Travel
Oakland
Best of San Francisco
Events
Wine Country
Tahoe
Highway 1
East Bay
Marin
Search mysite.com:
Castro Theatre's 70MM Festival Features Classics Restored to Big-Screen Glory
By
Rossiter Drake
on June 02, 2011 9:00 PM
Lawrence
returns to the big screen at the Castro, where the 70MM Film Festival kicks off this Saturday.
During a time when single-screen theaters have become dinosaurs, hopelessly outnumbered by overstuffed cineplexes where first-run features crowd shoebox-sized auditoriums, the
Castro Theatre
is a refreshing relic, a movie palace that treats films as works of art. As such, it is the only venue in San Francisco equipped to project in high-resolution 70-millimeter format, giving local cinephiles an increasingly rare opportunity to see big-screen classics like Alfred Hitchcock's
Vertigo
and David Lean's
Lawrence of Arabia
as they were originally intended. Beginning this Saturday, the Castro will play host to its annual
70MM Festival , a nine-day celebration of those classics and two others: Jerome Robbins and Robert Wise's beloved adaptation of the
Romeo and Juliet -inspired musical
West Side Story , and Jacques Tati's
Playtime , about a hopelessly old-fashioned soul braving the strange new world of modernist Paris. Tickets cost $10 for adults, and $7.50 for seniors over 62 and children under 12.
West Side Story When:
June 4-5; Sat., 7:30 p.m.; Sun., 1, 4:15, 7:30 p.m. Why:
Robbins' artful choreography takes center stage in this Oscar-winning adaptation of Leonard Bernstein and Stephen Sondheim's long-running Broadway musical. The story? "Frenzied hokum," complained legendary New Yorker critic Pauline Kael, and it's true that
West Side 's kinder, gentler version of Shakespeare's romantic tragedy has aged less than gracefully. But restored to its original big-screen glory, it remains a worthy spectacle 50 years after its theatrical debut. ( 1961; 152 min. ) Playtime When:
June 6-7; Mon., 7 p.m.; Tue., 5, 8 p.m. Why:
Tati’s farces about confusion in the age of technology peaked with this, his seminal fourth feature, about the resolutely old-fashioned Monsieur Hulot, who loses himself in a maze of modern architecture while trying to rendezvous with an American official in Paris. A bold, impressionistic portrait beautifully restored to its original format,
Playtime
speaks to the brilliance of Tati's timeless comedy, his breathtaking choreography and the visual audacity of a film that redefined the possibilities of 70mm. ( 1967; 124 min. )
Vertigo When:
June 8-10; 2, 5, 8 p.m. Why:
Set in and around San Francisco and beautifully restored to enrich Robert Burks’ stunning cinematography,
Vertigo
is neither as tightly plotted as
Rear Window
nor as masterfully paced as
North by Northwest ,
but it remains one of Hitchcock’s moodiest and most affecting
thrillers, a haunting tale of erotic obsession starring the great Jimmy
Stewart and Kim Novak. ( 1958; 129 min. )
Lawrence of Arabia When:
June 11-12; 2, 7 p.m. Why:
Full disclosure: As a critic, I'm often asked to name my favorite film of all time. Well, here it is. Lean’s award-winning epic follows enigmatic adventurer T.E. Lawrence (Peter O'Toole) during his adventures in the Middle East during the First World War. The 70mm format was brought to another level here, as the awesome beauty of the desert was captured like never before in possibly the grandest, most riveting character study ever committed to film. ( 1962; 216 min. )
under
Culture ,
Alfred Hitchcock ,
David Lean ,
Jacques Tati ,
Jerome Robbins ,
Jimmy Stewart ,
Kim Novak ,
Leonard Bernstein ,
Pauline Kael ,
Peter O'Toole ,
Robert Wise ,
Stephen Sondheim
More
Culture
Postings Previous Posting Parking Dilemma: Deep Skepticism About SFpark's Elitist Parking Meter Plans Next Posting Bobby Lee’s ‘Bizarre’ Career-In-Motion Comes to Punchline
Download the Big Eat App
Download the Big Drink App
The Big Drink 2014: 50 Cocktails to Try Before You Die
The Big Eat 2014: 100 Things to Try Before You Die
The 2012 Big To-Do SF: 100 Things To Do Before You Die
The Big Veg 2011: 50 Vegetarian (Or Vegan) Things to Eat Before You Die
The Big Sweet SF: 50 Treats to Eat Before You Die
50 Things to Do in Wine Country Before You Die
Four Awesome Northern California Hot Springs
Download the Big Eat App
Download the Big Drink App
The Big Drink 2014: 50 Cocktails to Try Before You Die
The Big Eat 2014: 100 Things to Try Before You Die
The 2012 Big To-Do SF: 100 Things To Do Before You Die
The Big Veg 2011: 50 Vegetarian (Or Vegan) Things to Eat Before You Die
The Big Sweet SF: 50 Treats to Eat Before You Die
50 Things to Do in Wine Country Before You Die
Four Awesome Northern California Hot Springs
Copyright 2014 7x7
About Us
Contact
Advertise on 7x7.com
Terms of Service
Privacy
Internships & Jobs