Saul Bass Design Quote Minimal Desktop Wallpaper 1680x1050 and 1280x800.
Archive
About
Contact
Dec 11, 2011
Design is Thinking Made Visual Minimal Wallpaper
I wanted to create some minimal wallpapers using famous design quotes...
I wanted to create some minimal wallpapers using famous design quotes, so my desktop can stay minimal, with just a little something extra. This might end up becoming a series of wallpapers.
Saul Bass
has been an inspiration to me, and specifically, an inspiration to encourage me to play with letterforms in imperfect ways. I wouldn’t say that I’m someone who is particularly talented in regards to hand-lettering by way of perfection. I have a style, I suppose, but perfect lines are not strengths. I roll with the organic and unusual.
Saul’s style was and
is
unique, and unmistakable. I adore his now-classic film poster designs and title sequences;
Anatomy of a Murder ,
Vertigo , and
The Man With The Golden Arm
being absolute favorites.
His distinct hand-lettered titles, color palette choices, the organic nature of the line work, the off-set balance of geometric shapes; all create remarkably simple, but effective designs. For me, the instant vintage sex appeal is undeniable.
For these wallpapers I didn’t go with 50s or 60s color schemes, but opted for the hand-drawn letterforms. It’s a hint of modern juxtaposed with irregular type, and some good old noise thrown in. There is also a complete color variety that uses the wonderful
Say it Fat
typeface, with some added vintage distress.
I have attached zipped packages of 1280x800 and 1650x1080 monitor resolutions, for anyone interested in using these on their computers. The color varieties are displayed, and individually downloadable, off to the right. To download simply “right-click” on the image and choose
save link as .
Download 1280x800
Download 1680x1050
Posted in: design and wallpaper
Tagged: minimal desktop wallpaper, saul bass, hand-drawn type, typography, typographic desktop wallpaper, and design exercises
Recent posts:
Recent Records 6
Recent Records 5
Recent Records 4
Please enable JavaScript to view the
comments powered by Disqus.
comments powered by
Disqus
Design. Development. Music. Drupal. Opinions.
Holler at me : joe-at-joetower.com