30 (Film Diary 13: 09/04/12 - 15/04/12) - Film Flare
Film Flare
Part of the Flare family, Film Flare devotes time, energy, effort and love into films, trailers and cast.
Home
Archives
Profile
Subscribe
« 29 - Bel Ami review
|
Main
|
31 - The Hunger Games review »
16/04/2012
30 (Film Diary 13: 09/04/12 - 15/04/12)
Unlucky for some, lucky for you.
It's episode 13 of Film Flare's most audacious and stunning Film Diary, FFFD.
(those words are entirely my own and not endorsed or verified by any independant authority)
Leggo! (meaning 'let's go')
License to Kill (1989)
The second of only two James Bond film
Timothy Dalton
ever did I think is one of the more underrated films of the whole series. In terms of character development and story, the film attempted a similar tone to
Casino Royale  but was instead often overlooked for seemingly being distant from the tone of the series which to be fair was still bogged down in post-Roger Moore silliness (Dalton's first bond film
The Living Daylights  was a step in the right direction though).
This is also the only Bond film to be rated a 15 in the UK, mostly for shark related mishaps, although a man does get exploded, there's a bit of implied rape and it's strongly implied a man has his heart cut out and given to a woman (aww!). Most of these actions are carried out by the film's villain, the drug lord Franz Sanchez, played through and through nasty by Robert Davi.
Just look at that face: what a prick!
The story is a brilliantly simple story of revenge wrapped around a mildly more complex story of drug dealing, double crossing and generic Bond tropes. A heavy influence of this film is Japanese stories of the Ronin, a master-less samurai alongside Bond's much more insidious actions of abusing the mistrust of the bad guys and performing very little direct action to bring the villain down. It's a little more intelligent of Bond and fits well into the revenge narrative that fills the story with emotions and a human core. Add to this the fact that for this film, Bond is in fact, a rogue agent and suddenly the reasons for misdirection seem even more evident.
The Bond girls, forever a staple of the series are suitably glamerous although not really fleshed out (haha) as characters themselves, instead they remind me of the incidental woman Sean Connery's Bond would sleep with, with them having little or no impact on the story as a whole.
However, it is the stunt work here that shines. It is wonderful.
Many of the stunts are brilliantly realised and executed and one in particular brought to mind a similar stunt that most of you will see (if you haven't already) when The Dark Knight Rises comes out later this year, although I'm not telling you which one. The plane stunts are insanely good and the whole thing looks very convincing whilst still retaining that slight OTT James Bond edge.
In the end, it was the increased violence and the darker side to Bond that put off many reviewers and viewers. Whilst not badly reviewed in and of itself, I personally feel it deserves to be much more loved by Bond fans. It's a grown up Bond.
Oh and keep your peepers peeled if you watch it for a young
Benicio Del Toro !
Trailer:
Twelve Monkeys (1995)
Now this is a beautiful, twisted piece of genius.
Easily the best thing that
Terry Gilliam
has directed (if you disagree, you're wrong!), this film is incredibly well directed, insanely well acted and a story that demands attention and rewards what attention you give it.
The story is time-travel at its core. It cleverly removes a time-travel paradox by not sending
Bruce Willis
back in time to change the future, instead he is simply told to observe and gather information to help the future repair and rebuild. By removing the idea of James Cole (Willis) having to 'save' the world, the emphasis is instead on the futility of life in 1996. The narrative contains many setbacks and tiny scenes and moments which mean nothing in themselves but each comes back with massive force and power by the time the credits role. It's a marvellous piece of storytelling and an exercise in how to tell a non-linear, confusing story and simply and as stylishly as possible.
By the way, I have never seen Bruce Willis on such form, ever. He is strong, resilient but he conveys such weakness at times, it's amazing. His James Cole is often as confused as we are but towards the end starts to build up incorrect ideas with such conviction and sense that we (as viewers) wonder if and how the carpet will be taken form under our feet.
Madeleine Stowe  gives her Kathryn Railly a fierce intelligence and charisma which remains a constant throughout the film.
Brad Pitt
is on top form too as the slightly odd (to put it lightly) Jeffrey Goines, with similar characteristics and ideals to one of his more iconic roles, Tyler Durden ( Fight Club ).
On top of all the praise I've given it so far, it has a charming tie-in to several Hitchcock films (most notably
Vertigo ) in a similar way to
La Jetee , the film that inspired 12 Monkeys.
So really then, an incredibly well made, well acted, confusing story told quite simply. Add to this several references to classic films and art and it is a beautiful film to boot.
If you get the chance and you've not seen it yet, please watch this film.
Trailer:
Posted at 07:36 PM in
2012 ,
Diary ,
Film ,
People ,
Review ,
Trailers ,
Web/Tech
|
Permalink
Technorati Tags :
12 Monkeys ,
1989 ,
Benicio Del Toro ,
bond girls ,
Brad Pitt ,
Bruce Willis ,
Casino Royale ,
Dark Knight Rises ,
Film Flare ,
James Bond ,
La Jetee ,
License To Kill ,
Madeleine Stowe ,
news ,
reviews ,
Robert Davi ,
ronin ,
stunts ,
Terry Gilliam ,
The Living Daylights ,
Timothy Dalton ,
trailer ,
Vertigo
|
Reblog
(0)
Comments
You can follow this conversation by subscribing to the
comment feed
for this post.
The comments to this entry are closed.
Blog
powered by
Typepad
Search
T.G
23
Following
33
Followers
Archives
November 2013
October 2013
September 2013
August 2013
July 2013
June 2013
May 2013
April 2013
March 2013
February 2013
Categories
2012
2013
Best Of...
Books
Current Affairs
Diary
Film
People
Religion
Review
Trailers
Web/Tech
Weblogs
See More
Subscribe to this blog's feed
Film Flare
Powered by TypePad