The official homepage of Manfred Waffender: BLOG
MANFRED WAFFENDER
LOG
2015
2014
2013
2012
2011
2010
2009
2008
2007
BIO
FILM
PRINT
PHOTO
TEACHING
PLACES_IN_TIME
SHOP
CONTACT
We live in time
December 31 - Finished reading
The sense of an ending
by
Julian Barnes
(in the german translation by Gertraude Krüger),
"the story of a man coming to terms with the mutable past" . This is how the book starts: "We live in time  - it holds us and moulds us - but I’ve never felt I understood it very well. And I’m not referring to theories about how it bends and doubles back, or may exist elsewhere in parrallel versions. No, I mean ordinary, everyday time, which clocks and watches assure us passes regularly: tick-tock, click-clock. Is there anything more plausible than a second hand? And yet it takes only the smallest pleasure or pain to teach us time’s malleability. Some emotions speed it up, others slow it down; occasionally, it seems to go missing - until the eventual point when it really does go missing, never to return."
Projection
December  29 - Morning light.
Amsterdam
December 18 and 19 -  With the ICE to Amsterdam. Morning walk in winter sun light. Vincent van Gogh’s
Blossoming Almond Tree
in the
Van Gogh Museum .
In the evening visiting a performance of
Orest , the new opera by
Manfred Trojahn
at
Het Muziektheater .
"The composer drew his inspiration from a rarely staged tragedy by
Euripides featuring Orestes, the brother of Elektra and Iphigenia, as
the central character. Following the murder of his mother Klytaemnestra
he seeks escape from his nightmares and tries to find his place in
society. However, the death sentence pronounced by the men of Argos
against Elektra and Orestes appears to have sealed his fate. Can the
execution of this sentence only be thwarted by new deeds of violence?
With Helena already destined to become the new victim of the siblings,
the radiant form appears of her daughter Hermione, who is immune from
the curse of the gods and is able to reveal a new path to Orestes.
Ultimately it becomes apparent that the gods have had their day."
Subvertising
December - " Banksy
is probably the
most popular, yet most mysterious, urban street artist
in the world – and he works at incredible
extremes. He has become
internationally known as a subversive graffiti artist – yet manages to
maintain a secret identity. He is a counter-cultural prankster, but has
art in major cosmopolitan galleries
around the globe. Banksy’s work has
sold to Hollywood celebrities for over half a million dollars a piece,
but much of his subvertising
is freely (and illegally) drawn on public surfaces. He works against
the mass media
establishment, but has been featured in local, national,
international news. He is on some level clearly a geek at
heart but at the same time his art is always on the cutting edge."
( web urbanist -
Local Designs to Global Destinations )
Cherry Tree December 12 - From a friend in Northern California:
Tibetan prayer flags
to decorate the cherry tree for christmas. Thank you, Anna!
Ensemble Modern December 5 -
Wenn die Bühne brennt
is the title of a portrait film about Frankfurt based
Ensemble Modern
shown on German-French cultural channel arte. More than a year Manfred Scheyko and his film team accompanied the musicians to concerts all over the world. Climax of the 52 minutes film is a clip from a recording of
Luigi Nono’s Prometeo
at this year’s
Salzburger Festspiele .
Enlightening December 3 -
Look at What the Light Did Now . Well made documentary by
Anthony Seck
about American-Canadian singer/songwriter Leslie
Feist
and her collaborators. On DVD. More than just another  film about a musician.
The Art of Noises November 29 and 30 - Two inspiring nights at Duesseldorf’s
salon des amateures : On 11/29
Dr. Johannes Ullmeier
presents a lecture talk titled "The Art of Noise - from futurism to today" with rarely heard sound samples from
Luigi Russolo
and other noise artists. It is the prelude for "Resonanzraeume", a project by the
Institut for Media and Cultural Studies
at Heinrich Heine University. The talk is followed by the performance "50 Sculptures" by the
Institut Fuer Feinmotorik . On 11/30 the
Intro Magazine
celebrates its 20th anniversary. Special guest is
Peter Licht , a congenial poet/musician from Cologne. He starts his performance with "Begrabt mein iPhone an der Biegung des Flusses" ("Bury my i-phone at Wounded Knee"), a title from his new album "Das Ende der Beschwerde" ("The End of Complaints"):
"Begrabt mein iPhone an der Biegung des Flusses. Da wo in der Mitte der Gesellschaft eine Kausalkette entspringt. Fahrt meinen Wagen in die Wüste und lasst ihn stehen wo der Tank endet. Blast meine geheimen Nummern in die Wolken, die vorbei ziehen. Zieht mein Gesicht in den Sand und handelt mit meiner DND. Zieht Kornkreise in die stehenden Felder meiner Biografie. Lest meine Gedanken, verschenkt die Daten, verkauft mein Fleisch. Verkauft mein Fleisch an den billigen Ständen und verwertet die Reste. Ich wüsste niemanden, der sich selbst gehörte - hat noch niemand jemals von gehört... "
Measuring up
November 28 - Everyone has read it:
Daniel Kehlmann’s
Measuring the World . The 2005 novel, which is (loosely) based on the lives of 19th century explorer Alexander von Humboldt and mathematician Carl Friedrich Gauß is allegedly one of the most sold books in Germany in the last few years. It has been translated in many languages and is required reading for the graduation exams. I read it and - frankly - dont understand the fuss.
Carnage November 26 -  Cinema visit:
Carnage
is Roman Polanski’s adaptation of Yasmina Reza’s hit theater play
The God of Carnage . It is a dark comedy, in which two pairs of parents meet after their teenage sons were involved in a shool brawl. In the constriction of a New York apartment they lose their composure and go at each other. Its a great pleasure to watch four world class actors giving their best:
Jodie Foster ,
John C. Reilly ,
Christoph Waltz
und
Kate Winslet .
Cherry Tree November 21 -  Waiting for a breeze.
Cherry Tree November 11 - Fallen.
Map and territory November 10 -  After having read
The Map and the Territory,
the new novel by French author
Michel Houellebecq , in which the artist Jed Martin shoots to fame by exhibiting photographs of old Michelin maps, I discover
Karte und Botschaft , a student project at the
Design Department
of the University of Applied Sciences Duesseldorf (FH D): inspired by the novel, they started to create photographs of maps in the style of Jed Martin.
Scientific proof November  4 - Ever so often science proofs what we have known for a long time.
The network of global corporate control
is a paper by Stefania Vitali, James B. Glattfelder and Stefano Battiston, that was published earlier this year:
"We present the first investigation of the architecture of the international ownership network, along with the computation of the control held by each global player. We find that transnational corporations form a giant bow-tie structure and that a large portion of control flows to a small tightly-knit core of financial institutions. This core can be seen as an economic ‘super-entity’ that raises new important issues both for researchers and policy makers .”
The study shows that the world belongs to
147
transnational corporations, whose interests are interconnected and
which control nearly 40% of the monetary value of all such corporations.
Of the top 50 organizations the majority are
financial institutions.
Cherry Tree November 3 - Turning yellow.
Gratitude
October  9 - A link from a friend in California:
Gratitude , a
TEDx
presentation about gratefulness by film maker
Louie Schwarzberg , who is the founder of a stock footage firm company, specialized in slow motion:
"I started shooting time lapse photography. It would take me a month to shoot a four minute role of film. It was all I could afford. I’ve been shooting time lapse flowers continously, non stop, twenty four hours a day, seven days a week, over thirty years. As the seasons move, there is a dance I get never tired of. Their beauty imerses us with color, taste, touch. Beauty and seduction are natures tools for survival. Because we protect what we fall in love with."
The off voice of the old man in the film belongs to
David Steindl-Rast , a benectine monk and spiritual teacher.
Thanks for the link, Deborah!
Revolution October 8 -  It started three weeks ago in New York: Inspired by the demonstrations and changes in the Arab world, people protested against social and economic inequality and corporate greed. Since than the
Occupy movement
is spreading from Wall Street all over the western world:
Occupy Wall Street
is a leaderless resistance movement with people of many colors, genders and political persuasions. The one thing we all have in common is that
We Are The 99%
that will no longer tolerate the greed and corruption of the 1%. We are using the revolutionary
Arab Spring
tactic to achieve our ends and encourage the use of nonviolence to maximize the safety of all participants."
Plain-talking
October 6 -  In an interview about his new novel
Mittelreich , German actor
Josef Birbichler
finds clear words for the current state of affairs:
"For me it is clear. In the year 1989 the corrective broke away. Until then the capital  had to be afraid, that there might be another - a better - form of society. That’s why they couldn’t carry it to the extremes. Now they can go to the extremes with everything. .. Somehow it is really frivolous, that they pretend, that they discovered it. But it shows: They have their backs against the wall. Even our Federal President suddenly recognizes, that it is wrong to individualize the profits and to socialize the immense losses. It calls the whole political system into question. It might well be, that in the long run democracy is not the most suitable system for capitalism. What is coming next will be blood and mud. What was until now was nothing compared to what’s coming."
(translated from the literature magazine in Die Zeit)
Improvisation September 24 to October 2 - As part of a group of  sixty students and teachers I take part in a week long course on improvisation in Montepulciano / Tuscanny. The meeting is organised and payed for by the
Kolleg fuer Musik und Kunst Montepulciano , an academic institution of all the art academies and music universities in North Rhine-Westphalia. Its housed at the
European Academy for Music and Performing Arts
at beautifully renovated
Palazzo Ricci
in Montepulciano.
move September 21 -
move. Art and Dance Since the 1960s
is the title of an exhibition at Duesseldorf’s K20.
"It’s main focus is on visual artists, dancers and choreographers who create sculptures and installations that directly affect the movement of exhibition goers, turning spectators into active participants  - perhaps even dancers."
(catalog) I enjoy dangling in
William Forsythe’s
Choregraphic Object
The Fact of Matter
(2009): a few dozen plastic rings hanging from  textile ribbons. They also show
Ten Thousand Waves , the new nine-screen video installation by
Isaac Julien :
"Filmed on location in the ravishing and remote Guangxi province and at the famous Shanghai Film Studios and various sites around Shanghai, Ten Thousand Waves combines fact, fiction and film essay genres against a background of Chinese history, legend and landscape to create a meditation on global human migrations. Through formal experimentation and a series of unique collaborations, Julien Isaac seeks to engage with Chinese culture through contemporary events, ancient myths and artistic practice."
(press release)
Radio on TV September 17 -
Radio Ro
is a hilariously funny musical theater show, that was produced three years ago at
Schauspiel Köln . Directed by
Clemens Sienknecht . Four members of an outdated recording studio perform "famous songs - but with altered lyrics and also altered melodies". Finally  on TV ( 3sat) .
You′ ll never walk alone September 10 - Soccer in the new arena  in Mainz. 31 000 spectators. Mainz 05 : 1899 Hoffenheim. Despite impressive chanting the hosts loose the game 0:4.
Cherry Tree September 2 - Tired. At the end of a long summer.
Walking August 29 to 31 - Three day hike in the Swiss alps on the rear side of the "Sleeping Indian" (above
Engelberg ) with my old school mate Herbert H. Bannalp - Urnerstaffel - Walegg - Walenalp - Brunnihütte -  Rugghubel - Rot Graetli - Bannalper Schonegg - Bannalp. Listening to cow bells, wind and running water. Watching the path in front and an eagle above. Feeling rocks under my feet and fresh air in my lungs.
Mapping
August 18 - An old friend comes for a visit - and brings a new book:
Infinite City - A San Francisco Atlas
by
Rebecca Solnit . What makes a place?
This
"brilliant
reinvention of the traditional atlas, searches out the answer by
examining the many layers of meaning in one place, the San Francisco Bay
Area.
In the most inventive manner Solnit has compiled 22 beautiful color maps,  each connecting different perspectives of the city.
Map number 3 is called Cinema City : "This is a map about two moments in the history of film and San
Francisco:
one in which photographer
Eadweard Muybridge
laid the
foundation for
a new technology of moving pictures that would evolve
into cinema as
we know it; and another, eighty years later, when his
fellow Englishman
Alfred Hitchcock
filmed his dark valentine to San
Francisco,
Vertigo , here.
Of course, there are countless other moving picture and media moments
of note—movies such as
Bullitt ,
with its lyrical car chases, breakthroughs
such as
Philo T.
Farnsworth’s
invention of television on Green Street—but
maps are
always selective, and Muybridge and Hitchcock are a striking pair
of
imagemakers. The genesis and an apotheosis of cinema are charted on
this map, whose last theme is decline—if not of the medium, at least of
its dream palaces, the movie houses that once were the exclusive home
of cinema. There were over seventy such theaters in San Francisco,
many
of them in the neighborhoods, when
Vertigo debuted in
1958, but only a
handful remain open. They were replaced first by
television, then by video
rentals, and by other digital ways of
watching films on small screens, even
more than they were by the
downtown multiplexes. So there are three eras
on this map, the
1870s-1880s, the 1950s, and the present, in which we are
heirs to
their wealth but makers of a curious imagistic poverty as well."
Thank you, Anna: for your visit and for the book.
At the flicks
August 13 -
Super8 . This summer’s blockbuster. Written by
J.J. Abrams , produced by
Steven Spielberg . Boy meets alien (girl). Great story telling. Haunting images. Reminiscent of
Close Encounters ,
E.T.   and
Back to the Future .
Amblin .
Twitter
August 12 - Listening to
birdsongradio.
Faith July 25 to 30  - Canoe trip on the lakes of
Mueritz National Park . Contemplating
Henry David
Thoreau :
"Everyone must believe in something. I believe I’ll go canoeing".
Getting high on music July 22 -
Scientists at
The Neuro ,  a research and teaching institute at McGill University in Montreal, have found that
"the pleasurable experience of listening to music releases dopamine, a neurotransmitter in the brain important for more tangible pleasures associated with rewards such as food, drugs and sex."   Published in
Nature Neuroscience ,
the results suggest why music, which has no obvious survival value, is so significant across human society.
“These findings provide neurochemical evidence that intense emotional responses to music involve ancient reward circuitry in the brain" , says Dr. Robert Zatorre, neuroscientist at The Neuro.
“To our knowledge, this is the first demonstration that an abstract reward such as music can lead to dopamine release. Abstract rewards are largely cognitive in nature, and this study paves the way for future work to examine non-tangible rewards that humans consider rewarding for complex reasons.”
Music for the desert July 13 -  I visited an inspiring exhibition and discovered a great young artist. The title of the exhibition is
BIG PICTURE
and the name of the artist is
Richard T. Walker . The exhibition - still to be seen until November 20 at
K 21
in Dusseldorf -
"revolves around a selection of 12 installations which are displayed in a specially designed architectural setting ( Stadler Prenn Architekten, Berlin ) that is designed to emphasize the spatial and physical aspects of the film projections."
(Curator Doris Krystof) The artist, born in England, is 34 years old.
"In the spirit of an introverted Romantic he sets out into the country to explore himself and nature...Walker always approaches the environment cautiously and slowly enters a dialogue with the bizarre plants and stone formations...he makes use of the emptiness of the landscape, but personalises the motionless desert inhabitants by focusing on them individually and providing them each with a musical performance especially adapted to them."
(catalogue)
T he hierarchy of relavance , the video selected for this exhibition, has a duration of 8 minutes. Towards the end of an elaborate  voice over, Walker says:
"After some time he opened his eyes and just stood there: still and quiet in memory of the melody. He took a long deep breath contemplating the actions he knew he needed to take. So that ones again he would be able to stand back in awe and truly appreciate the magnificence of this landscape. He picked up his back and put it over his shoulder, beginning his long walk into the distance. His pace began slow and considered, reflecting the rhythm of the song of distraction, the song, that briefly had set him free.“
Cherry Tree July 7 - Listening to the light percussion of a gentle summer rain.
Specialization June  27 -
"A human being should be able to change a diaper, plan an invasion, butcher a hog, conn a ship, design a building, write a sonnet, balance accounts, build a wall, set a bone, comfort the dying, take orders, give orders, cooperate, act alone, solve equations, analyze a new problem, pitch manure, program a computer, cook a tasty meal, fight efficiently, die gallantly. Specialization is for insects."
( Robert A. Heinlein , science fiction author) As quoted by industrial designer
Chris Koehne .
Cherry Tree June 26 - Processing. Jam, juice, cans.
Cherry Tree June 25 - Harvest. The higher the sweeter. The highest are for the birds.
Cherry Tree June 13 -
Cherry-Time Cherries of the night are riper Than the cherries pluckt at noon Gather to your fairy piper When he pipes his magic tune: Merry, merry, Take a cherry; Mine are sounder,
Mine are rounder, Mine are sweeter  For the eater Under the moon. And you ’ll be fairies soon.   In the cherries pluckt at night, With the dew of summer swelling, There’s a juice of pure delight, Cool, dark, sweet devinely smelling. Merry, merry, Take a cherry; Mine are sounder, Mine are rounder, Mine are sweeter For the eater In the moonlight. And you ’ll be fairies quite.   When I sound the fairy call, Gather here in silent meeting, Chin to knee on the orchard wall, Cooled with dew and cherries eating. Merry, merry, Take a cherry; Mine are sounder, Mine are rounder, Mine are sweeter. For the eater When the dews fall. And you ’ll be fairies all. (Robert Graves, 2003)
Perfume of June June 6 -
Stop and smell the roses .
Thomas Struth June 2 -  Visit to
Thomas Struth - Photographs 1978-2010
at
K20
in Duesseldorf: More than 100 motifs, most of them large-sized, by the famous German photographer. After studying painting with
Gerhard Richter , he became a student of
Bernd and Hilla Becher
at the
Kunstakademie Duesseldorf . Part of the photo exhibition is a room to listen to music:
"Music has always played a fundamental role in my life. For this reason, the guitarist
Frank Bungarten
and I have put together a music program for the Education Department’s exhibition room of the Kunstsammlung NRW. The program consists of a special selection of pieces randomly played in high audio quality in the ’Labor’. Besides this top musicians will lead master classes, where you can experience firsthand how artistic work can develop through lively practice. The acoustic ’look’ behind the scenes in the direct vicinity of the Kunstsammlung’s collection is intended as a way of letting the different forms of perception and creation with which artists express their beliefs and world views interact with one another. After visiting the audio exhibition in the ’Labor’, music from different genres, epochs, and different cultural spheres will reverberate in the ears of visitors as they continue to look at the artworks in the collection, offering a different perspective on visual art.”
(Thomas Struth)
Cherry Tree May 31 - Ripening.
Nearly 90 May 21 -
Merce Cunningham Dance Company
on their
Legacy Tour
at
Staatstheater Wiesbaden :
"Nearly 90²
is a restaged version of
Nearly Ninety ,
Cunningham’s final work, presented against a black backdrop with new
costumes and lighting. The pared-down production brings a renewed
clarity to the choreography, illuminating the keen, geometric beauty
honed over Cunningham′s 65-year career of dancemaking. Like the original
iteration, the work weaves together languid, meditative phrases and
vigorous ensembles to create a richly textured evening of dance. The
work is accompanied by new music
from former Led Zeppelin bassist
John Paul Jones
and mixed-media sound
composer
Takehisa Kosugi ."
An evening of immense inspirational power - and an opportunity to take a bow before the genius of
Merce Cunningham .
Trier May 13 - Every other year the
University of Applied Sciences Trier
comes forward with a new version of
designfusion , an event designed by students for students, teachers and the general public. Exhibitions, films, lectures, workshops and a mega fashion show. This year’s topic is KULT (cult). Following an invitation by Prof. Franz Kluge, I give a lecture talk: "Sensory Awareness - the art of perception".  In the afternoon, I follow the KULT signs to exhibitions in different locations of the university throught town - and discover the beauty of  Germany’s oldest city. In the Gothic cloister of the 1700 year old
cathedral
(the oldest cathedral in the country), I listen to a coincidental concert: It starts with the percussion of hammer and chisel of a single stonemason up on a scaffolding and the voice of a blackbird on top of a stone statute - and ends with five strokes of the church bells. Closing time.
"Like a dog!" May 10 -  „Someone must have been telling lies about Josef K., he knew he had done nothing wrong but, one morning, he was arrested.“
That is how
Franz Kafka
started his famous novel
The Trial . First published in 1925, it tells
„the story of a man arrested and prosecuted by a remote, inaccessible authority, with the nature of his crime revealed neither to him nor the reader.“
(wikipedia) By entering
Die Hundsprozesse , a performance installation in a disused municipal office building in Cologne, the theatergoer is forced to play the part of Josef K.. The play/performance/installation is commisioned by
Schauspiel Köln
and put on by Danish theater company
SIGNA .
“SIGNA devises site-specific projects fitted to a particular space by redefining abandoned, disused buildings and sites and transforming them into a timeless theatrical space, an artificial world that the audience is invited to visit and explore.“
After registration in a bare office the vistor/defendant spends hours wandering from interrogation to interrogation, waiting, witnessing bizarre torture scenes and beeing lured into corrupt affairs. For up to six hours one can spend in the so called Basalgericht (base court).
I went with a group of students from my Sensory Awareness course. The inescapable introspection brings forward all kinds of emotional reactions, changinging from paranoid outrage to depressed capitulation.
What now?
May 7 -
Little Man, What Now?
is a novel by German writer
Hans Fallada . It was first published in 1932, a year before the fascists came into power. With its description of the last days of the
Weimar Republic
and the social decline of bookkeeper Johannes Pinneberg and his wife Lämmchen, the book is considered to be a modern classic. Belgian director
Luk Pervceval
adapted the story for theater and put it on stage at
Muenchner Kammerspiele . The production met with critical acclaim and was invited to the
Theatertreffen 2010
in Berlin and to the
International May Festival 2011
at
Hessisches Staatstheater
in Wiesbaden, where today I had the chance to see it. Great theater! Four and a half hours of outstanding performances by a top-class ensemble.
Swimming  May 5 - Start of the open air pool season.
Cherry Tree April 23 - Happy Easter!
Tuscany April 15 to 18 - Meeting with fellows at
Palazzo Ricci
in
Montepulciano
in order to prepare a workshop on  improvisation in fall. The workshop is a project of the
College for Music and Art Montepulciano , an academic institution of  art- and music universities in North Rhine-Westphalia.
Ode to the Brain April 12 - Latest release by The Symphony of Science:
Ode to the Brain!
The
Symphony of Science
is a musical project headed by
John Boswell :
"The goal of the project is to bring scientific knowledge and philosophy
to the public, in a novel way, through the medium of music.
Science and
music are two passions of mine that I aim to combine, in a way that is
intended to bring a meaningful message to listeners, while
simultaneously providing an enjoyable musical experience."
(John Boswell)
Cherry tree at night April 10 - In full bloom - beneath a shaky moon.
Cherry Tree April 2 - First blossoms.
Out for a walk March 24 to 28 -   Five days along the
Way of St. James
through the
Biosphere Reserve Palatinate Forest -Vosges du Nord . Landau, Bad Bergzabern, Fischbach, Eppenbrunn, Hornbach. Flowering almond trees, a light green glow around the broadleaf trees. Murmuring streams and reflective ponds. In
Martin Heidegger’s
famous essay
The Pathway
we read:
"... The Simple conserves the puzzle of what abides and what is great. Spontaneously it enters men and yet needs a lengthy growth. ...But the message of the pathway speaks just as long as there are men who, born in its breeze, can hear it. They are hearers of their Origin and not servants of machination. In vain does man try with his plans to bring his globe into order if he is not ordered to the message of the pathway. The danger looms that today’s men are hard of hearing towards its language. They have ears only for the noise of media, which they consider to be almost the voice of God. ...Certainly the number of those who still recognize the Simple as their hard-earned possession is quickly diminishing. But it is these few who will everywhere be the abiding ones. Through the gentle force of the pathway they are going to be able to survive the gigantic energies of atomic power which human calculation has artifacted for itself and made into fetters of its own doing. The pathway’s message awakens a sense which loves the Free and, at a propitious place, leaps over sadness and into a final gladsomeness. This resists the stupidity of simply working, which when done for itself promotes only what negates. ..."
Kaikoura und Oamaru February 23 - Skilled employees from
Grieger
mount two large size prints from my photo series
new sea land scapes
in a permanent exhibition at
Robert Schumann School of Music and Media
in Düsseldorf.
Cherry Tree March 21 - First buds.
Humility and courage March 16 - I agree with American composer
John Luther Adams
who comments the events in Fukushima on his facebook site:
"As we grieve for the people of Japan and watch in horror the unfolding
catastrophe, one can’t help but wonder: How many more Fukushima Daichis
and Chernobyls will it take? How many more Deepwater Horizon and Exxon
Valdez disasters before we find the humility and courage to shape a
different future for our species?"
Nightmare March 14 - As the bad news from Fukushima get worse, a film by Japanese filmmaker
Akira Kurosawa
comes to mind:
Dreams.
It was released 1990 and consists of eight episodes. Each episode represents one of his own dreams.
Mount Fuji in Red
is the second nightmare in the film. A large nuclear power plant near Mount Fuji has begun to melt down, painting the sky red, sending millions of Japanese people fleeing into the ocean.
Fukushima March 13 - Among a million other things the earthquake and tsunami also demaged  a nuclear power station about 150 miles north of Tokio. An explosions has taken off the roof of one of four reactor buildings.
Japan March 12 - Magnitude 8.9 earthquake 231 miles northeast of Tokyo. The earthquake is said to be the fifth largest in the world since 1900 and the largest quake ever to hit Japan. Within an hour after the quake a tsunami with a wall of water up to 30 feet high washes over the Japanese coast. I am stunned by the images on TV: Cars and trains are swept away like toys.  Buildings collapse.  Fires break out.
Extra time February 28 - Dense fog at the airport in Bergen. No flights in, no flights out for more than 12 hours. Following the recommendation of a friendly book seller I get a copy of
Out Stealing Horses
by norwegian author Per Petterson. Sitting on my backpack between suitcases and boxes I have a great time reading a good book:
"Down there outside the barn the dairymaid was washing her buckets and
tubs in the stream with water and soda, and the sun flashed in the metal
and in the icily clear water pouring into the buckets and splashing out
again, and we waved to her, and she raised her hand and waved back, and
a shining streak of water flew up in an arc through the air before it
fell to the ground."
PLACES_IN_TIME | norwayfjords February 26 - The
Nærøyfjord   is a fjord in
Sogn og Fjordane
county, Norway. The narrow fjord is a branch of the large
Sognefjord . It has been listed as a UNESCO
World Heritage Site
and has been rated by the
National Geographic Society
as the world’s number one natural heritage site along with the
Geirangerfjord . From the getty in
Gudvangen
I record a 30 minute take of video and seperate stereo tracks. It is the first recording in a series of six long-lasting takes for PLACES_IN_TIME | norwayfjords.
Folk music  February 23 -
Ole Bull
was a famous Norwegian violinist and composer.
Robert Schumann
once noted, that Bull was among "the greatest of all". In 1863 he got the idea to start an academy based on Norwegian folk music. More than a century later, 1977,
Ole Bull Academy
was founded. Today it is situated in a spacious building in Voss, a village surrounded by snow-capped mountains, forests and lakes, about 60 miles east of Bergen. The Academy works in close cooperation with Grieg Academy. It gives folk musicians an opportunity to attain a university level education and teaches Norwegian folk music and folk dance to university students. We arrive in Voss after a beautiful train ride and have the opportunity to record a session with eight students learning to play the
hardanger fiddle
from a local virtuoso.
Grieg Academy February 22 - Tour through
Grieg Academy
with Bjorn Einar Halverson. With a population of about 160 students the academy offers 4-year
programs in performance, composition, pedagogy and music therapy. Stefan, the  producer of an image film about Grieg Academy we intend to shoot in summer, scouts for locations. I give a presentation about the
Institute For Music And Media
to a group of Norwegian collegues and show
Steve Reich: City Life
to composition students.
A city with a view February 21 -  Arrival in
Bergen . With one of our students I visit
Grieg Academy,
a partner of
Robert Schumann School of Music and Media . The city is surrounded by seven mountains. The most visited one is called
Fløyen . It is 320 m high and offers - like a balcony - great views of the harbour city on the west coast of Norway.
Cherry Tree February 19 - Pruning "... should be done in late winter, encouraging the plant to grow more during the growing season...A properly pruned cherry tree should have a scaffold shape. This means that there are branches circling the tree, perpendicular to the leader, and there should be an area of about two feet between the levels to allow for light to reach the lower leaves and fruit."
( About Cherry Trees )
Ambient Soul February 14 - New album: JAMES BLAKE by 22 year old
James Blake . Whow!  Music stripped to the bones. Slow. Without redundancy. Very long pauses. Tense and empty. Pop with black holes. Brave.
Flood February 3 -
Schauspiel Köln :
Das Werk / Im Bus / Ein Sturz
by
Elfriede Jelinek , staged by
Karin Baier . Three plays about greed, irresponsibility and human hubris. Great performances, especially by
Thomas Loibl
and
Lina Beckmann
and a fantastic stage design, that leaves the stage flooded - and the audience stunned.
Life January 31 -
Life
is a nature documentary series made by BBC television. The original broadcast in UK consists of ten 50-minute episodes.
After watching the first three parts on German TV on the previous Mondays, I ordered the DVD Set.  " The budget and timescale for the series enabled the producers to set
ambitious filming challenges, and expedition crews brought back several
sequences which have never been shown before ." The production facts are full of superlatives: a budget of more than 10 Million £, 3000 days of shooting, High Definition, high-speed cameras capable of shooting up to 8000 frames each. In the opening narration David Attenborough says:
"Our planet may be home to 30 million different kinds of animals and plants, each individual locked in its own lifelong fight for survival. Everywhere you look, on land or in the ocean, there are extraordinary examples of the lenghts living things go to stay alive."
This is TV at its very best.
Jazztage Mainz Januar 22 -
Klangraum
is a renowned studio for film music in Mainz. For the fourth time the three owners organise a two-day jazz festival. The second night starts with an unreckoned reunion. Three members of Missus Beastly, a world-jazz-oriented instrumental group, I admired in the mid seventies (break-up ’79), come on stage:
Norbert Doemling
(bass),
Jürgen Benz
(saxophon) and
Burkhard Schmidl
(keyboards). After each musician has played a solo, the three get into a nostalgic groove. I remember wild nights in the smoke filled university cafeteria 35 years ago with never ending pieces...Beastlies... Amon Düül ... Guru Guru ... Xhol Caravan ...dancing girls in flying skirts. Second is the
marburgjazzorchestra . " Why search far afield when
the good is nearby?" they say and play music by German bigband composers. The
SHS-trio
closes of a great evening with live music: Heinz Dieter Sauerborn (saxophon), Hanns Höhn (bass) and Bernhard Sperrfechter (guitar). No drummer. Performed with virtuosity. Perfect!
Getaway January 16 - Weekend foray to Alsace. Choucrote au poisson in
Saverne . Sunset in
Parc naturel regional des Vosges du Nord .
Cherry tree January 9 -  Hibernating.
New Year’s resolution January 1 - Keep walking - and pay attention to each step.