Unknown and the problem of fridge logic | Alec Nevala-Lee
Alec Nevala-Lee
Thoughts on art, creativity, and the writing life.
Unknown
and the problem of fridge logic
with 4 comments
Last night, as part of
Redbox’s
free movie promotion, my wife and I rented
Unknown , a Liam Neeson thriller that is slightly more polished than
Taken , but features significantly less
throat-punching . If there was ever a movie meant to be rented for free on a random Thursday night, it’s this one: director Jaume Collet-Serra has a nice, slick visual style that keeps the story clocking along, and there’s one short scene between Bruno Ganz and Frank Langella that is a quiet masterpiece of suspense, but in the end, the movie founders on a script that squanders a clever premise for a series of generic action beats. As the implausibilities mount, it becomes impossible to take any of it seriously: it’s the kind of film where you walk out of the theater humming the plot holes.
Of course, nobody expects thrillers to be airtight. For a movie to mislead audiences, it’s usually obliged to reach some kind of accommodation with plausibility, working in the moment without necessarily standing up to extended scrutiny. Hence the phenomenon of
fridge logic : a detail in a movie that seems fine at the time, but later strikes the viewer as ridiculous. Ted Tally, the screenwriter of
The Silence of the Lambs , instructively
quotes
Jonathan Demme on this point:
“That’s a refrigerator question.” A refrigerator question? “You know. You’ve just come home from a movie, you had a great time, you go to the refrigerator to get a beer, you open the door, and you say ‘Wait a minute…'”
Tally concludes by saying that Demme doesn’t worry much about refrigerator questions. And for good reason. Because even the best thrillers tend to fall apart on closer examination, but if we’re emotionally engaged, we don’t care.
Take
Vertigo , for instance. This is easily the greatest of all thrillers, and one without which a movie like
Unknown
might not even exist, but it contains so many implausibilities—among other things, how Madeline managed to disappear from her hotel room, and how anyone could be sure that Scotty wouldn’t make it to the top of the bell tower—that we can thank it for the term “fridge logic” itself: Hitchcock referred to such moments as “icebox” scenes, since they start to bother you “after you’ve gone home and start pulling cold chicken out of the icebox.” And the greater the thriller, the more likely we are to discover such problems, if only because we’re drawn to revisit it more than once. If there are numerous elements of
The Usual Suspects
that I no longer believe, it’s only because I’ve seen it over thirty times. By any measure, then, the movie succeeded.
So why can’t I forgive the plot problems in
Unknown ? The issue is one of delay: if
Unknown
had managed to postpone my objections until even five minutes after the closing credits, I would have enjoyed it more. As it stands, I found myself annoyed by its implausibilities long before the end of the movie, at which point fridge logic becomes a simple
plot hole . That delay of five minutes may seem like a small thing, but it’s no different than any act of sleight of hand, in which a few seconds of misdirection can make all the difference. A movie like
Unknown
is a reminder that ordinary professionalism can take a movie ninety percent of the way, but the last ten percent requires something more. And that last bit of effort, as Hitchcock and Demme know, is what pushes a plot hole out of the movie and safely into the fridge.
Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window) Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window) Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window) Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window) Like this: Like
Loading...
Written by nevalalee
August 26, 2011 at 9:14 am
Posted in
Movies
Tagged with
fridge logic ,
Jaume Collet-Serra ,
Jonathan Demme ,
Ted Tally ,
The Silence of the Lambs ,
The Usual Suspects ,
Unknown ,
Vertigo
«
Quote of the Day
The obsessive screenwriter
»
4 Responses
Subscribe to comments with
RSS .
Wow. Great post. I feel enlightened now.
I actually haven’t seen these movies yet, but I can completely understand what you’re talking about all the same.
And I’m relieved to discover that the state of confusion I sometimes experience after a movie like this has a name.
Tatiana
August 26, 2011 at
3:47 pm
Thanks! And if you liked fridge logic, you’ll love
fridge brilliance .
nevalalee
August 26, 2011 at
3:52 pm
wait a minute, how did danny ocean get back up the elevator shaft and into the room where he was supposedly being beat in?
Wakes
August 30, 2011 at
11:11 pm
And where did the fake money come from?
nevalalee
August 31, 2011 at
7:25 am
Leave a Reply
Cancel reply
Enter your comment here...
Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:
Email
(required)
(Address never made public)
Name
(required)
Website
You are commenting using your WordPress.com account.
(  Log Out  /  Change  )
You are commenting using your Twitter account.
(  Log Out  /  Change  )
You are commenting using your Facebook account.
(  Log Out  /  Change  )
You are commenting using your Google+ account.
(  Log Out  /  Change  )
Cancel
Connecting to %s
Notify me of new comments via email.
Notify me of new posts via email.
Follow Alec Nevala-Lee on WordPress.com
Pages
About me
About my novels
Contact me
Press and media
Short fiction
Recent Posts
Seeing as much as you can
Thinking away from the notes
Hail to the King
Quote of the Day
Arguments with myself
“The yacht was a monster…”
Quote of the Day
Is this post an example of Betteridge’s Law?
Search for:
Twitter
A lot of people think that the latest installment of
#TheDistance
is the best, most riveting episode yet. I agree:
soundcloud.com/the-distance-p…
1 week ago
In case you missed it,
#TheDistance
returns with a quirky, funny look at a family of numismatists. (Coins, silly.)
soundcloud.com/the-distance-p…
3 weeks ago
@ VelocityWong
@ nycballet
@ Justin_Peck
She's on her second viewing of it today! 				 4 weeks ago
Archives
August 2011
M
T
W
T
F
S
S
« Jul
Sep »
1 2 3 4 5 6 7
8 9 10 11 12 13 14
15 16 17 18 19 20 21
22 23 24 25 26 27 28
29 30 31
Follow via Email
Subscribe via RSS
Follow on Facebook
Follow on Facebook
Blog at WordPress.com .
The Journalist v1.9 Theme .
Follow
Follow “Alec Nevala-Lee”
Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.
Join 9,902 other followers
Build a website with WordPress.com
Send to Email Address
Your Name
Your Email Address
Cancel
Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
%d
bloggers like this: