"Off Balance" - DCAU Wiki: your fan made guide to the DC Animated Universe - Wikia
Wikia
Skip to Content
Skip to Wiki Navigation
Skip to Site Navigation
Comics
TV
Movies
Music
Books
Games
Lifestyle
WHAT’S HOT
Empire
Scream Queens
Star vs. the Forces of Evil
FALL PREMIERES
American Horror Story: Hotel
Fargo
Ash vs. Evil Dead
ANIME TO WATCH
Owari no Seraph: Nagoya Kessen-hen
Haikyuu!! Second Season
K: Return of Kings
MOBILE APPS
The Walking Dead
Avatar
Adventure Time
More TV
Search this wikia
Search all of Wikia
Sign In
Register
Username
Password
Forgot your password?
Stay logged in
Or
Connect
Start a wikia
DC Animated Universe Wiki Navigation
On the Wiki
Wiki Activity
Random page
Videos
Photos
Chat
Forum
Forum
DCAU Discussion
Site Discussion
Featured Articles
DCAU Wiki featured articles
Batman
Superman
Hawkgirl
Joker
Wonder Woman
Supergirl
Flash
About Us
Admins
Copyrights
Policies
Manual of Style
Conjecture
Images
Citing sources
Deletion policy
Protection policy
Vandalism
DCAU
Site Map
A to Z
All articles
Characters
Superheroes
Veronica Vreeland
Alfred Pennyworth
Lana Lang
Nora Fries
Metahumans
Annie
Episodes & Feature Films
Justice League Unlimited (animated series)
Batman: The Animated Series
Batman Beyond
Justice League (animated series)
Superman: The Animated Series
The New Batman Adventures
Static Shock
Places
Meta-Brawl
Flash Museum
Gotham Police Department
Cities
Lazarus Pit
Headquarters
Crime Alley
Vehicles
Batmobile
Batwing
Javelin
Batcycle
War Wheel
Raven X1-11
Soulmobile
Equipment
Terry McGinnis's Batsuit
Batsuit
Annihilator
Power ring
Batarang
Brimstone
Anti-Kryptonite suit
Lists
List of sexual innuendos and double entendres in the DCAU
List of people who know Batman's secret identity
DCAU influences on mainstream comics
List of Wonder Woman's exclamations
Joker/Chronological appearances
List of DCAU voice actors in Batman: The Brave and the Bold
List of live-action crossovers
Contribute
Add a Video
Add a Photo
Add a Page
Wiki Activity
Watchlist
Random page
Recent edits
"Off Balance"
3,547 pages on
this wiki
Edit
History
Talk 0
Batman: The Animated Series
episode
"Off Balance"
Airdate:
November 23, 1992
Production Number:
50
Airdate Order:
44
Animation Services by:
Sunrise
Written by:
Len Wein
Directed by:
Kevin Altieri
Episode images (9)
" Off Balance " is the forty-fourth episode of
Batman: The Animated Series . It originally aired on November 23, 1992.
Contents [ show ]
Plot
Thugs from the Society of Shadows silence themselves.
Batman meets one of his underworld informants,
Twitch , atop Gotham's Statue of Liberty. Twitch says he's been running errands for a mysterious organization, the
Society of Shadows . He mentions that they are planning a heist of a high-tech weapon, and their leader goes by the name " Vertigo ". Just then, two agents of the Society appear and attack. In the fight, Twitch is thrown off the statue's head into the sea (though he appears to survive). Batman overcomes the two agents, but before he can interrogate them, they release gas canisters in their masks, sending them both into catatonic states.
Batman appears at the firing range at Gotham Police Headquarters, where
Gordon
is practicing alone. Batman relates the night's events, then guesses that the target of the planned heist is
Wayne Enterprises ' new ultrasonic drill, being delivered that night by train.
At the rail station, when the drill is unloaded,
Lucius Fox
and the entire security detail is disabled by waves of vertigo, caused by waves emitted by an eyepatch worn by Vertigo himself. As his men take the drill, Batman appears and tries to intervene, but is likewise disoriented by the vertigo effect. Vertigo is about to attack, but a dart is fired before him. He turns and sees a
mysterious woman
aiming another shot at him, and flees with the drill.
Batman
discovers that
Talia
has removed his mask.
Batman tracks the Society to an abandoned cathedral outside Gotham. While searching the surrounding forest, he runs into the woman, who introduces herself as Talia. Then they are both attacked by the Society. Talia proves herself more than capable in combat, and they have gained the upper hand, when two more agents appear above them and fire the drill at them. The ground crumbles beneath their feet, dropping them into an underground cavern and knocking them unconscious.
They wake up in a cell. Batman finds that Talia has removed his mask to care for his wounds. She explains that Vertigo used to be a servant of her father, who has sent her to punish him. She proposes a temporary partnership.
Batman manages to open their cell door, and they make their way into the main hallway. As soon as they enter, the door seals behind them, and the vertigo effect hits them. At the other end of the room, Vertigo explains that he's making his departure, but he's planted identical devices in the walls which will continue the effect after he leaves, and thus make it impossible for them to avoid the room's booby traps.
Batman takes Talia's arm and asks her to trust him. They make their way slowly across the room, narrowly evading booby traps such as trap doors and arrows, with his guidance. When they reach the other end, they pass through a door and the vertigo effect stops. When Talia asks how he resisted the effect, Batman says he kept his eyes closed, relying instead on his hearing and other senses.
Talia
and a
mysterious man
speak.
They climb the stairs of the bell tower as Vertigo is carrying the drill to a helicopter on top. Seeing them, he activates his vertigo device, throwing them off balance, then fires the drill, tearing away the stone steps. Unable to stop from falling, both Batman and Talia jump forward and grab the bell ropes. In the belfry, the bells issue a thunderous ringing, causing Vertigo to drop the drill and stumble, with his hands pressed to his ears. He tumbles out of the tower, falling into a nearby river.
Batman carries the drill back towards the
Batwing , telling Talia that both their jobs are done. She says, not quite, and points her gun at him. At her order, he hands over the drill, but not before slipping a small device into its barrel. As a helicopter lands to lift Talia off, Batman vows that their business is not yet settled.
As the helicopter flies over the mountains, Talia informs
her father
via videophone that she has succeeded. He congratulates her and suggests that she test the drill. She aims the drill out the window at a nearby mountain and pulls the trigger—then the concealed device explodes, causing the weapon to short circuit and overheat, forcing her to drop it. As she rages over the phone, her father coolly shuts off the line impressed that Batman achieved a victory even in defeat. He also vows that their business with Batman isn't settled.
Continuity
Batman's brief encounter with Talia seems to have tremendously impressed both her and Ra's; by the time of their next appearance, " The Demon's Quest ", Ra's has set in motion an elaborate scheme to test Batman's worthiness as the heir to his empire and the husband to his daughter.
Background information
Home video releases
Batman: The Animated Series, Volume Two (DVD)
Batman: The Complete Animated Series (DVD)
Best of Batman (DVD)
Production inconsistencies
Just before Talia is attacked in the forest, when she's walking towards the rocks, her walking animation is her stepping forwards, yet she seems to "slide" sideways.
Trivia
Though he is named in the credits, Ra's al Ghul does not formally make his name known until "The Demon's Quest".
Vertigo 's fall from the tower (especially the camera shot from inside the tower of him falling past an opening) appears to be a direct reference to the 1958
Hitchcock
film
Vertigo . Another possible homage is the opening fall from the Statue of Liberty, which resembles a climactic scene from Hitchcock's
Saboteur.
This episode is noteworthy for being the first-ever screen appearance of Ra's, one of Batman's deadliest enemies from the comics. Ra's had never before appeared on a Batman film or television show, and would not appear outside the DCAU until the 2005 film
Batman Begins .
Vertigo's comics counterpart is known as
Count Vertigo , an old
Green Arrow
villain. He also appears in the non-DCAU adaptation
The Batman , where his eyepiece affects the ears rather than the eyes. In both versions Batman counteracts the effects by temporarily disabling the afflicted sense.
The episode is directly based on the comics story "Batman: Into the Den of the Death-Dealers" ( Detective Comics
#411, May 1971) by
Dennis O'Neil , chronicling the first meeting of Talia and Batman.
Cast
Actor
Role
Kevin Conroy
Bruce Wayne / Batman
Bob Hastings
Commissioner Gordon
Robert Costanzo
Harvey Bullock
Efrem Zimbalist, Jr.
Alfred
Barry Dennen
Shadow Agent
Brock Peters
Lucius Fox
Helen Slater
Talia
Chick Vennera
Twitch
David Warner
Ra's al Ghul
Michael York
Vertigo
Quotes
Commissioner Gordon :
One of these days I'm going to nail
his
feet to the ground.
Batman : Alfred, you're brilliant!
Alfred : ( nonchalantly ) Yes, so I've heard.
Talia:
( noticing a rat ) Filthy creature.
Batman:
( coming around ) I've been called worse.
Batman:
I don't do helpless.
Talia :
How did you do that?
Batman:
Simple, I just kept my eyes closed.
Talia:
You
what ?
Batman:
The only way to neutralize the vertigo effect was to rely on my other senses to see us through.
Talia:
All right. I
am
impressed.
Ra's al Ghul :
So even in defeat, the Detective manages to achieve some small measure of victory. As you said,
Detective ..."This is not over."
Previously produced episode: " I Am the Night "
Episodes of Batman: The Animated Series
Next produced episode: " The Man Who Killed Batman "
Previously aired episode: " His Silicon Soul "
Next aired episode: " What Is Reality? "
Retrieved from " http://dcau.wikia.com/wiki/Off_Balance?oldid=146100 "
Categories :
Episodes directed by Kevin Altieri
A to Z
Batman: The Animated Series episodes
Episodes written by Len Wein
Around Wikia's network
Random Wiki
TV
About
Help
Community Central
Careers
Advertise
API
Contact Wikia
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Global Sitemap
Content is available under
CC-BY-SA .
Entertainment
Video Games
Lifestyle