Digress-Straggle-Divagate: Springbrook National Park part 1 The Purlingbrook Falls
skip to main
|
skip to sidebar
Digress-Straggle-Divagate
Friday, 22 June 2007
Springbrook National Park part 1 The Purlingbrook Falls
This is Purlingbrook Falls, located in
Springwood National Park , South East Queensland. Infact, it's right on the New South Wales border.
It is about a 45 - 60 minute drive at a guess. One can never be exactly sure because you are always so distracted by the scenic tour on the drive there... and ....because I have such a crap memory. You can go here four times a year (very easily, I might add) and each time you go, the falls will look different. The amount of recent rainfall makes a huge difference in the view and the temperture. I have been to this place when it was 34c with 85% humidity at home.. but it is always cool in this valley. The walk to get to the bottom of the falls, however, may not always be as cool. (i.e. carry lots of drinking water!) The walk does take a few hours, but as most of it is in shade its a delight to go. Not for the totally unfit unless you have 4-5 (or so) hours to spare.. must add that. Most of the photographs I have posted today, were taken in October 2005. It was about 30c but I'm guessing not much more than 23c by the time we got to the bottom. We comfortably did this walk, 3 Adults & 5 children, in umm not sure.. around 3 hours? You can spend far more time than that - so much to see.. stop and take in nature.. it's wonderful. Mind you, we stopped so I could photograph every thing that moved and many many things that didnt. Much fun was had - apologies to those we may have disturbed with our frequent laughter which often broke the delicious calm of the valley.
Then again, if laughter annoys you, stiff shit... it's a great sound. If you don't like laughter.. you know what you can do :D
OOhh...must NOT forget to mention our fake tropical bird calls.
"Ga gaah Ga gaah" and "Ahh ahh eeh eeh toockie toockie" (a la George of the Jungle) were crowd favorites for our walking party - and honestly, I can not say it was only the children doing it.. but they did participate at some stage ....hee hee OK lets start with some real info rather than my dribble. There is no right and wrong way to walk this trail..(legs do help & walking on your hands would just be bloody stupid). Just start at either end and make sure you exit the other. For some reason, we have always started on the same side. Creature of habit I am..
Don't forget, you can click on the images to enlarge them
The path kinda runs in a large wobbly circle. It heads down hill.. zig zagging all the way so it is never too steep. The path is well looked after and very safe .. just stay on the path ! I have many photographs of the walking trail, but they mainly have people in them, and as I have not asked their permission to show their faces.. I will not post. Sounds like a good excuse to go for another Springbrook National Park walk with the camera? Remind me of that will ya? Just not when its gonna be 5c tonight.. brrr This is the water pooling at the top of the falls. Nothing incredibly spectacular about this area really I guess. It could be any smallish waterway. The fun starts just a few metres away ! In this photo, off in the distance you can see the Gold Coast .. err. coast? hmm.. water?.. ocean.. yes.. thats the word, ocean. . The altitude is 900 metres (2953 feet for you imperial buggers),
Purlingbrook Falls itself has a drop of 100 metres (approx 328 feet ) This walk way is roughly the half way point. Yes, you do walk BEHIND the waterfall. In high summer this would be magnificent as I'm thinking you would be damn hot by then. As I said, different times of the year = diff volume of water.
. . . OOh.. edit ! I just found this photo online.. thief ! It must have been right after a good rain.. check out the volume of water going over! Bags me not walking under that waterfall in this weather ! Summer.. maybe. My camera did get slightly wet when I took this photo. I was standing infront of the cliff wall, but behind the waterfall. I love this place. Still behind the waterfall, but looking across the other side. Then looking upwards.
Vertigo , is not my friend. Vertigo is a right bitch.I held the camera with one hand and gripped the handrail extremely firmly with the other. Even if you don't like this photo, or can't work it out.. I don't care.. You MUST LOVE this picture cause it made me feel sick to take it. Did I mention that I intensely dislike Vertigo? This photograph ... I stole from a website. A thief.. but at least I confess.
The volcanic rock at the bottom of the falls.. it's actually very soothing.. the constant rushing water sound hitting the rocks. Just past the waterfall itself, this tree fern used to live. It is no longer there. Why it is not there anymore, I'm not sure. I know I didn't take it home.. although I'd love to !
Ok.. thats it for the water shots. I've got some other photos to sort.. and I'll post them soon. Also looking into the indigenous history of the area. It is very interesting. Damn it's cold tonight!.. remind me of this when I am whinging in summer please? .
Posted by
Just Me
at
9:12 AM
7 comments:
LiSh
said...
water falling........ looks cold It was 7 here today so I went to the beach, go figure! I COULD have driven up the mountain and poked the snow, or up Russell Falls to do an imitation of an icimicle... but I'm only insane enough to take the dogs to the beach for a swim
23 June 2007 at 9:24 PM
Just Me
said...
dogs to the beach for a swim in 7c dogsicles someone call the RSPCA !!
23 June 2007 at 11:07 PM
LiSh
said...
Like I could keep the little rotters out of the water!
25 June 2007 at 11:28 AM
Melly`
said...
I got her address and am calling the RSPCA now..
27 June 2007 at 11:37 PM
Melly`
said...
Forgot... my dog shamed me again today TWICE.... nope I cant remember how we use phones either,....
27 June 2007 at 11:46 PM
Anonymous
said...
Dang it is too freeze for me!!!(July 07) in this afternoon that about 5c.... our nose just turn blue
lool It is Best one lookout water fall (omg water just like ice) yeah why not you go for it and enjoy walk about (p.s No ant cause sleep in) I made it lool love to see Springbrook...... Thank !!!!
9 July 2007 at 10:16 PM
caz
said...
oppp sorry lool....Dang it is too freeze for me!!!(July 07) in this afternoon that about 5c.... our nose just turn blue lool It is Best one lookout water fall (omg water just like ice) yeah why not you go for it and enjoy walk about (p.s No ant cause sleep in) I made it lool love to see Springbrook...... Thank !!!!
9 July 2007 at 10:18 PM
Post a Comment
Newer Post
Older Post
Home
Subscribe to:
Post Comments (Atom)
Just Me
I rant, I rave, I laugh - join me
About Me
Just Me
Gold Coast, Australia
I'm a new blogger - who knows how long this will last? I get distracted so easily... Please feel free to leave me COMMENTS (click on 'comments' just under the post itself) .. OH and any monies are graciously accepted.. Remember one thing, this is MY blog, if you don't like it - well then there is a BIG FAT RED X in the top right hand corner of the screen baby... use it if you deem it necessary
View my complete profile
Blog Archive
►
2009
(1)
►
July
(1)
►
2008
(14)
►
May
(1)
►
March
(1)
►
February
(9)
►
January
(3)
▼
2007
(55)
►
November
(2)
►
August
(1)
►
July
(5)
▼
June
(26)
John would be proud - artists make a stand for hum...
Springbrook National Park part 1 The Purlingbrook ...
A glorious drive just minutes from home
Ha Ha .. Gotta love Keating
OOps nearly forgot
Sunday lunch - in Paradise
Evening walk at the beach again... gotta love it
Nude.. gets attention
Workchoices... much closer to the truth!
A Tshirt I want !
Ahh... life can be tough !
Look UP, not down - Let's put this in perspective
This is a bit of a worry
It's STILL Wintersun....
It's Wintersun time again ! part 2 The Cars
It's Wintersun time again ! part 1
Spank the Pussy!
Gorgeous Sunset as storm comes in to town
Damn funny - who hasn't done something similar to ...
1 Planet, 1 Future - too many short sighted govern...
They Loved it !
Anyone fancy a DUMP CAKE?
Thank gawd they were wrong eh?
End of voting..
Oh dear, act your age!
Headcolds suck.. badly
►
May
(21)
O U C H
!
Grab a cuppa and read these
Everyone needs a Mel in their life
My Pizzaland Nut
A good two cents worth
Lish - she has pulled her finger out!
Oh Crikey!
Pavlov's Cat - thanks for many a good read
urban dictionary - a must these days!
 Need a website designed? Give my friend a go!
The Weather where I am is...
I'm watching you watching me!
Digress with me
View My Guestbook
Sign My Guestbook
On this day...