Flight Information Services, Langley Flying School
Home
Our Mission
Flight Training
Professional Pilot Program
Pilot Summer Camp
Licences
Private Pilot Licence
Commercial Pilot Licence
Recreation Pilot Permit
Ratings
Multi-engine Class
Instrument
Instructor
Night
VFR Over-the-top
Others
Language Profiency for Pilots
Multi-crew Standard Operating Procedures Training
Gift Ideas
Multi-engine Flight Excursion Program
Prospective Students
The School
The Staff
Getting Started . . .
Flying as a Career
Student Loans
International Students
International Students Off-campus Work
Frequently Asked Questions
Graduates' List and Staff Alumni
Langley Flying School Bursaries and Awards
Calendar
Chief Flying Instructor's Page
Groundschool Schedules
Student Accomodation
Bicycle and Bus Transportation
Famous Contemporary Pilots
Language Testing References
Students
Booking Sheet
Ready Room
Classroom
Flight Rules and Safety Precautions
Anonymous Safety Reporting
Flight Operations Safety Threats List
Flight Operation Notices
Near Mid-air Collision Report
Student Feedback
Student Feedback: Instructor Evaluations
Student Feedback: Aircraft Improvements
Student Feedback: Facilities Improvements
Student Feedback: Service/Organization Improvements
Student Feedback: Program Review
Resources
Safety Management Systems
Examination Room
Map Room
Airport Instrument Procedures
Tutors' List
Carpe Diem
Steve Jobs: Stay Hungry, Stay Foolish
For the Love of the Game: Clear the Mechanism
People & Places
Bicycle and Bus Transportation
Writers' Corner
Request for a Langley Flying School Email Account
Student Awards
Langley Flying School Bursaries and Awards
Recipients
Calendar
Student Supplies and Price List
Chief Flying Instructor's Page
Graduates' List and Staff Alumni
News Archives
Staff and Administration
Standard Operating Procedures
Anonymous Operations Safety Reporting
Anonymous Workplace Safety Reporting
Flight Operations Safety Threats List
Workplace Safety Threats List
Maintenance Control Manual
Maintenance Control Manual Documents Incorporated by Reference
Flight Instructor Aircraft Responsibility
Flight Operation Notices
Authorized Persons' List
Class IV Instructor Supervision Status
Staff Meeting Minutes
Staff Safety Training Record
Staff Training Policy
Aircraft Maintenance Supervisor Training Record
Classroom Monitoring Evaluation Report
Chief Engineer's Report of Student Pilot Maintenance Completion
Student Enrolment Contracts
Student Language Testing
Request to Start Advanced Flight Training
Flight Training Authorization
Prior Learning Assessment Report
Quality Assurance
Staff Feedback
Aircraft Improvements
Facilities Improvements
Service/Organization Improvements
Safety
Safety Management Systems
Flight Rules and Safety Precautions
Anonymous Operations Safety Reporting
Contact Us
Address & Map
Contact Form
Employment Opportunities
Giving to Langley Flying School Students
International Students
Registration Form
Flight Operations
Flight Information Services
Pre-flight information is obtained by the
pilot from a NavCanada distribution network composed of regional Flight
Information Centres (FICs).
There are nine FICs in Canada—based in Kamloops,
Edmonton, Winnipeg, London, Quebec City, Halifax, North Bay, Yellowknife, and
Whitehorse—and the regional distribution of these centres is indicated in the
depiction that appears to the right.
Pilots can also obtain flight information from a Flight Service Station (FSS) located at specified
airports, but FSS are primarily oriented to
providing information services to pilots departing and arriving at the specific
airport where they are located.
The primary functions of the FIC is to
provide pilots with access to emergency services, aviation weather information,
flight planning administration, en
route flight information, and
airport advisory services.  The nearest
FIC can be contacted using the toll-free number 1-866-WX BRIEF.
When a pilot planning a flight communicates
with the FIC, the pilot should begin by describing the planned routing, time, and
altitude, and then request “a briefing”.
In response, the Flight Service Specialist will convey all pertinent
information pertaining to the flight, including weather, AIRMETs, NOTAMs, and
PIREPs. 1   All of this information is
published on NavCanada’s website— www.flightplanning.navcanada.ca —and
where possible, pilots should review this data prior to contacting the FIC, and
advise the Flight Service Specialists accordingly.  NavCanada has also established internet
access to flight data through a series of
Pilot
Information Kiosks ,
currently situated at 80 airports across Canada.  Kiosk locations are published on NavCanada’s
internet site, and
are also specified in the
Canada Flight
Supplement .
En route Communication
During a flight, pilots exchange updated
information with the FICs via a network of
Remote
Communication Outlets  (RCOs), as well as radio communication equipment co-located at airports
(see P. 189).  Currently, the frequency 126.7
MHz is the frequency monitored by both pilots and FSS/FIC personnel for the
purpose of in-flight communication (see P. 189), but owing to frequency
congestion, frequency 126.7 MHz will be phased out by 2010, and replaced by
the frequencies 123.275 MHz, 123.375 MHz, 123.475 MHz, and 123.55 MHz.  These frequencies shall be referred to as
Flight Information Services En route  (FISE).  Remember, however, that
all ATC and ATS units, including FSSs and FICs continuously monitor 121.5 MHz
for the purpose of emergency communications.
When contacting the FIC via radio for the
purpose of obtaining in-flight information, pilots must transmit the following
information:  aircraft identification, the
name of the location of the RCO, followed by the expression “R-C-O” in
non-phonetic format:
Pilot:
Pacific Radio,
this is Cherokee Golf, Alpha, Bravo, Charlie on the Lytton R-C-O.
To avoid confusion between Kamloops FSS,
which administers information at the Kamloops Airport, and
Kamloops FIC, which administers information for the Kamloops Flight Information
Centre, the Kamloops FIC is referred to as
Pacific Radio  for the purpose of radio communication (as
indicated above).
The frequencies 122.75 MHz and 123.45 MHz
are reserved for pilot-to-pilot (air-to-air) communications.
1
AIRMET s pertain to unexpected changes in the weather conditions
that were previously not published in the aviation forecasts;
PIREPS
are pilot
reports pertaining to weather conditions observed by a pilot during flight, and
communicated to FSS/FIC personnel on the ground.
Weight
and Balance
A pilot cannot legally fly an aircraft
unless:
the aircraft is operated in
accordance with the requirements of the
Pilot Operating Handbook— including
weight and loading limitations; 1
the load is properly disposed
in the aircraft; 2
the cargo and equipment is
secured to prevent shifting and the passenger exits are not blocked. 3
There are various terms associated with
weight and balance:
Standard Weight Empty (Standard Empty Weight )
is the weight of the airframe and engines with standard equipment, including
unusable fuel and oil.  Essentially, this
is the weight of the aircraft when it came out of the factory, before optional
equipment was added.
Basic Empty Weight
is the weight of the aeroplane with
the
current
equipment options (instruments, radios, interior
features), excluding passengers, cargo and
usable fuel ; depending
on the aircraft manufacturer, basic empty weight sometimes includes full oil
weight, and the pilot must examine the aircraft weight and balance list to
determine if oil weight is included.
Usable Fuel
is aircraft fuel available for flight, while
Unusable Fuel
is fuel remaining in the tanks that is unreliable and cannot be
used.
Maximum Gross Weight
is the maximum permissible weight of the aeroplane.
Useful (Disposable) Load
is gross takeoff weight, less basic empty weight.
Operation Gross Weight
is the weight of the aircraft loaded for takeoff ( Basic Empty
Weight
plus
Payload Weight ).
Requirements
Before each flight, the pilot must ensure
that the aircraft does not exceed the maximum gross weight.  The pilot must also determine the
Centre
of Gravity
(C of G)
of an aircraft before each flight to ensure it is
between the maximum rearward and maximum forward positions (the
C of G
Range ).
The C of G is the central balance of the
aircraft—the point at which it could be suspended and remain balanced— and is
calculated using the load “positions” or “stations” prescribed in the
Pilot Operating Handbook
and the actual
load anticipated for an intended flight.
Aeroplane manufacturers publish weight and
balance limits, including the Standard Empty Weight in the aircraft’s
Pilot
Operating Handbook .  In addition,
each aircraft has an
Aircraft Weight and Balance Report
which is kept with the aircraft documents; it provides the actual
Basic Empty Weight (BEW) and C of G information for the specific aircraft,
including changes in radio equipment and any other equipment or airframe
changes since manufacture.  Typically, the
aircraft documents will include a series of superseded reports, but only the
latest report must be used for calculation purposes.
In the Weight and Balance section of the
Pilot
Operating Handbook , data is provided for each “position” or “station” in
the aircraft.  Specifically, the
Pilot
Operating Handbook
data provides an
arm
for each station, which is the distance in inches from a
predetermined
balance datum line
(the datum line is simply a reference line
that allows measurement of longitudinal position of the stations).  Typically, station arms are provided for the front passengers, the second row passengers,
the rear cargo hold, the forward cargo hold, and the fuel.  The weight and balance is calculated by using
the station information and anticipated weight at each station, as well as the
aircraft BEW and its corresponding C of G as derived from the Aircraft Weight
and Balance Report.
Procedure
For each station item, the
weight
is
multiplied by the
arm  to establish (for each
position) a
moment .  To determine the aircraft C
of G, the total moment (all station moments added together, including the BEW
moment) is divided by the total weight.
The sum, in inches, provides the C of G for the aircraft and is compared
with the aircraft C of G “envelope” found in the
Pilot Operating Handbook
to determine if it is within limits.
Item
Weight (pounds)
Arm (inches)
Moment
Basic Empty Weight
1380
85.0
117,300 4
Pilot and Front
Passengers
320
85.5
27,360
Rear Passengers
90
117
10,530
Fuel (usable)
180
95
17,100
Baggage Area #1
25
133
3,325
Totals
1995
175,615
C of G:
175,615
=
88.0
1995
A computation table, such as appears above, helps simplify the calculations.  In
this example, the total weight (1995 lbs.) is added up to ensure it is within
the permissible limit; then the
total moment (175,615) is divided by the
total weight to provide the centre of gravity (88.0 inches);
finally, this
C of G number, along with the total takeoff weight of the aircraft, is checked
against graphs found in the
Pilot Operating Handbook
to determine if the
aircraft is within permissible limits.
These graphs commonly depict the maximum
aft C of G and the maximum forward C of G in relation to various takeoff
weights.  In the sample graph that
appears to the right, the maximum forward limit is 84 inches aft datum, and the
maximum rearward limit is 96 inches.  To
conduct a takeoff beyond these limits would be deadly.  Note also that the maximum takeoff weight—for
this aircraft, 2150 lbs.—could only be used when the C of G is between 88.5
inches and 96 inches; as the weight is reduced, the C of G must migrate forward
of 88.5 to remain within the graph limits.
Finally, note how this graph sets the legal limits for utility category
manoeuvres, such as spins, or steep turns in excess of 45° bank (see
discussions on P. 27).
While the format of the above weight and
balance graphic is typical of many aircraft such as the Piper Cherokee, there
is a second format commonly used.
In
the
Pilot Operating Handbook
of Cessna aircraft, for example, the
determination of the aircraft’s balance point does not include the calculation
of the C of G
directly ; instead the pilot determines the balance point by
calculating the
total moment
of the aircraft—i.e., simply adding all the
moments together—and then comparing this number with the aircraft’s total weight.
In the above example we have used, the
total moment was of course 175,615, a unit referred to as
pound-inches .  Since this figure is
commonly large and cumbersome, the number is typically divided by 1000; so
175,615 lb-in. would become 175.615 lb-in/1000.
(The unit names have the appearance of rocket science, but in fact it is
all real simple stuff.)  It is the 175.6
figure, along with the total weight of the aircraft (1995 lbs.), which is
checked against graphs in the aircraft’s
Pilot Operating Handbook .  As show in the graph that appears below, the information presented is more or less identical to that which
appears in the previous weight and balance graph.
To determine the pound-inches/1000 a second
specialized graph is used which makes this format of weight and balance quite
easy to calculate.  This second graph
appears above, and you can see that each station—pilot and front
passenger, Rear passenger, fuel, etc.—has its own reference line.  The weight for each station establishes a
point on the reference line, and the station moment (lb-in/1000) is determined
by extension of a downward vertical line.
These can then be entered on a table, as shown below.
Item
Moment
(lb.-inches/1000)
Basic Empty Weight
175.6
Pilot and Front
Passengers
27.3
Rear
Passengers
10.5
Fuel (usable)
17.1
Baggage Area #1
3.3
Totals
175.8
There may be some confusion over the fact
that 175.8 value appears in the above table instead of the 175.8 figure that is
plugged into the graph above; the reason for this is that the last two digits
are dropped when using the load-weight graph to the right—the difference is
inconsequential.
Actual passenger weights must be used in
calculating weight and balance, but if these are not available, the following
average passenger weights
(published in the
Aeronautical Information Publication ) can be used:
Type of Passenger
Summer Weight
Winter Weight
MALES (12 years and up)
200 lbs. (90.7 kg.)
206 lbs. (93.4 kg.)
FEMALES (12 years and up)
165 lbs. (74.8 kg.)
171 lbs. (77.5 kg.)
CHILDREN (2 – 11 years)
75 lbs. (34.0 kg.)
75 lbs. (34.0 kg.)
INFANTS (less than 2 years)
30 lbs. (13.6 kg.)
30 lbs. (13.6 kg.)
NOTE:
On
any flight involving a number of passengers whose weights, including carry-on baggage,
will exceed the average weights listed above, the actual weights of such
passengers are to be used.
The
weight of infants  must be added separately when the infant’s
weight exceeds 10% of the adult responsible.
Where
carry-on baggage  is
not involved or permitted, the weights for males and females may be reduced by
13 lbs (5.9 kg.).
In calculating fuel, aviation fuel weighs
approximately 6 lbs. per US Gallon and oil weighs 1.95
lbs. per litre.  One US Gallon
contains 3.79 litres.
Note that the
Aircraft Weight and
Balance Report
for some aircraft includes oil, while others do not; where
oil is not included, the oil station (including weight, arm, and moment) must
be added to the pre-flight calculations.
This can only be determined by examining the actual report, including the
equipment/weight list included in the Report.
Oil weights are published in the
Canada Flight Supplement .  On occasion, oil is presented as a negative
value in the weight and balance calculations (this appears in the table below),
and this is because the location of oil is sometimes behind the datum line.  Not to worry, here, as the negative moment
value for oil (-333 lb.-inches in the case above) is simply subtracted in
reckoning the total moment value.  Negative
values appear typically when the reference datum line is configured at the
firewall (separating the engine and cabin compartments), but it is more common
for designers to place the reference datum line at or near the spinner.
Item
Weight (pounds)
Arm (inches)
Moment
Basic Empty Weight
1380
85.0
117,300 5
Pilot and Front
Passengers
320
85.5
27,360
Rear Passengers
90
117
10,530
Oil
22
-15
-333
Fuel
180
95
17,100
Baggage Area #1
25
133
3,325
Totals
2017
174,949
C of G:
174,949
=
86.7
2017
.
Weight, Balance
and Performance
The heavier the aircraft, the
greater
the lift
required from the wing
throughout the speed range .  Consider, for example, two identical
aircraft, one lightly loaded and the second heavily loaded.  If both are flying at the same indicated
airspeed, it is clear that the heavier aircraft must have a
higher angle of
attack
(to produce the extra lift) than the lighter aircraft.  For a given speed, including speed just above
the stall, it must be that the angle of attack of the
heavier aircraft is
closer to the critical stall angle of attack than the light aircraft —it
follows, therefore, that the lighter an aircraft, the slower its
stall
speed .
The same argument as above can be applied
to
fuel economy .  That is, the aircraft with
a lower angle of attack for a given speed must have less induced drag and
therefore less thrust (fuel burn) will be required.
The location of the Centre of Gravity (C of
G) with respect to whether it is forward or rearward also affects aircraft
performance.  While an aircraft takes off
with a specific ramp weight, once it leaves the ground the effective “negative”
lift of the horizontal stabilizer has the effect of increasing the aircraft’s
“aerodynamic weight.”  If a C of G is located
forward, the negative lift of the tail will have to be increased to balance the forward
weight, and as the negative lift is increased, the aerodynamic weight, overall,
is increased.  Using the same reasoning
as applied above with respect to weight in general, an aircraft with a forward
C of G will have a higher stall speed than the aircraft with a rearward C of
G.  A forward C of G loading, however,
has an positive effect with respect to stability—an aircraft with heavy tail
loading will be more stable in recovering from a pitch-down attitude as the
associated acceleration will activate a greater amount of horizontal stabilizer
weight, thereby making it easier to raise the nose.  Also, at the point of stall, a forward C of G
will make recovery easier (the pilot has more pitch authority on the control
column than is the case with a rearward C of G). 6
These features, of course, are related to
loading variations within limits.  An
aircraft loaded outside limits is simply dangerous.  Always ensure weight and balance is within
limits—if it is not and you have an accident, your insurance will not cover
property or personal liability.
Further Readings:
Transport Canada's
The Importance of Proper Weight and Balance
Transport Canada's
Take Five: Overloading
1
CAR
602.07
2
CAR
602.86 (1) .
3
CAR
602.86(2).
4
This calculation of the moment is based on weight times arm—1380 ×
85.0 = 117,300.  The unit of the moment
is commonly referred to as
pound-inches —e.g., 117,300 pound-inches.
5
This calculation of the moment is based on weight times arm—1380 ×
85.0 = 117,300.  The unit of the moment
is commonly referred to as
pound-inches —e.g., 117,300 pound-inches.
6
See also discussion regarding the effects of C of G on the stall
speed that appears
Aerodynamics and Theory of Flight.
Pressure and
Density Altitude
There are many occasions in which a pilot
has to predict the performance of an aircraft—e.g., in planning a takeoff, in
planning a climb over mountainous terrain, in predicting rates of fuel
consumption, and aircraft performance with respect to speed.
Generally, aircraft performance—in terms of
lift generated by the wing, and thrust generated by the engine— decreases with
an increase in ambient temperature and a decrease in ambient air pressure .
The concept of
pressure altitude
allows us to take into consideration any variation in the ambient
pressure.  We know that standard
pressure—the pressure most likely to be encountered—is 29.92”Hg (inches of
mercury) at sea level.  We also know that
the pressure of the air normally decreases 1”Hg with an 1000’ increase in
altitude.  Therefore, if we are at an
airport with sea level elevation, and the current altimeter setting is
2 8 .92”Hg, we can predict that the aircraft during the takeoff, for example,
will perform as if it is doing the same takeoff at an airport with an elevation
of 1000’, and performance will be degraded accordingly.  Conversely, if the altimeter setting were
30.92”Hg—i.e., the pressure of the air is higher than normal or standard—the
takeoff performance of the aircraft would be enhanced—as if the takeoff were
conducted at an airport situated 1000’ under sea level where thick dense air
(not water!) would provide better conditions for lift from the wing surfaces
and thrust from the propeller and engine.
Calculation of pressure is done by
calculating the difference between the current altimeter setting and the
standard altimeter setting.  This difference
is then converted into feet, based on the given that
1”Hg = 1000’ —this is referred to as the
Standard Pressure
Lapse Rate .  Accordingly, if the current
altimeter setting is 30.12”Hg., we would calculate as follows:
30.12 – 29.92
= .2 .  Using the standard lapse rate,
.2 is converted into 200’.  What do we do
with this 200’?  The answer is that if we
want to determine the pressure altitude for an airport, we must add or subtract
the 200’ relative to the airport’s elevation.
If we want to determine the pressure altitude of an intended altitude
that we want to cruise at, we must add or subtract the 200’ relative to the
planned cruising altitude.  The question
of adding or subtracting the
“correction value”
is determined by whether
the current air pressure is higher or lower than standard.  Since pressure decreases with altitude, and
the current altimeter setting is higher than standard, we should subtract the
200’.  Thus, if the airport elevation
were 3427’, we can say that the airport’s pressure altitude is 3227’ for the
purpose of determining takeoff performance, and if the planned cruising
altitude were 6500’ we know that when we level off with 6500’ indicated on the
altimeter, the aircraft will burn fuel and produce an indicated airspeed as if
it had levelled off at 6300’.
While pressure altitude provides a
correction for pressure, it does not take into consideration the ambient
temperature of the air—a factor that, on a hot day when performance of the
aircraft is degraded, is far more critical.
In factoring in the influence of
temperature on aircraft performance we shift to the concept of density
altitude —that is, the higher the temperature, the higher the density
altitude.  Here we must use math, and the
formula is as follows:
Density Altitude = Pressure Altitude + (100
´
[actual temperature – standard
temperature] )
Okay, how you are asking “what the heck is ‘standard
temperature’”.  The standard temperature
at sea level is 15° C, and the
standard temperature
lapse rate
is 2°/1000’ (actually 1.98° per 1000’, but the .02 that is missing never hurt anyone).  (The origin of the standard temperature lapse
rate is discussed on
Page
140 )  What then is the standard temperature for an
airport with an elevation of 2000’?  The
answer is 11° C as, we know, temperature will
decrease 2° C for every 1000’ increase in altitude
(15-4=11).
So we can see by the formula that density altitude will equal
pressure altitude when the actual temperature is in fact the standard
temperature for a given elevation or cruising altitude.  What is the standard temperature for an
airport with an elevation of 4000’?  The
answer is this: 4 ´ 2 = 8 and 15 – 8 = 7, or 7° C.
Now we can go into action: What is the density altitude of an
airport with an elevation of 4,500’ when the altimeter setting is 28.92”Hg.,
and the temperature is 28° C.?
Density Altitude = Pressure Altitude + (100
´
[28 – (15 - 9)])
Density Altitude = 5,500’ + (100
´
[28 – 6)])
Density Altitude = 5,500’ +
2,200
Density Altitude = 7,700’
You can see how, with only a moderate
increase in temperature, the performance of an aircraft can be extremely
degraded—and a white-knuckle takeoff is truly something to avoid!  For this reason,
Pilot Operating Handbook s
publish various tables that enable a pilot to calculate performance
characteristics at varying temperatures and altitudes.
Instead of memorizing the above formula,
consider the good news—density altitude can be readily calculated by spinning
the wheel on the E6B, and the temperature and pressure factors are normally
built into the performance charts published by an aircraft manufacturer’s
Pilot Operating Handbook .  The graph that appears below is
similar to that which appears on p. 9-1 of the Cherokee manual.  This graph is entered on the bottom with
temperature (either in °F or °C—you E6B, by the way, is equipped with a
conversion scale).  In the example shown
on the graph, the temperature is 32° C, and the pressure altitude is
3500’—figures that are common for summer departures from airports such a Calgary International Airport.  A reference line is extended
straight up from the temperature scale to intercept the pressure altitude lines
that run at an angle.  From this
intercept point, a horizontal reference line is made directly to the density
altitude scale which lies on the left side of the graph.  The density altitude for the departure is
approximately 5500.’
Takeoff Performance
The performance of an aircraft during a
takeoff—in particular, the length of runway required before the aircraft
becomes established in a climb—can become critical in the case of short runways
or when the outside temperatures become extremely hot.
Takeoff data is commonly presented to
pilots in the form of a graph, as appears above.  In the example shown, the graph is entered
from the left, based on the airport’s density altitude.  A horizontal line is then extended from left
to right, first to intercept the two ground-roll lines, the first for a lightly
loaded aircraft, and the second dashed line for the aircraft at gross weight.  The line is then further extended to the
right to intercept the 50’-obstacle lines, again with the two weights indicated
by separate lines.
When using takeoff performance graphs such
as this, it is crucial to know that the ground roll data is something to be
virtually ignored.  Only when an aircraft
reaches an altitude of 50’ will its climb performance be stabilized and
predictable.  While the example shows
that the aircraft will become airborne at about 1100’, it will not be able
climb significantly away from the runway surface (and 50’ is not a lot of
clearance) until it has travelled another 1100’.  The rule of thumb, therefore is always to
discard the ground roll numbers, and to instead use the
clearance over 50’
when assessing the success of a takeoff.
Note also that the fine print must be
carefully read.  The performance values
determined from this graph will only apply if the flaps are set to 0° (the
application of up to 25° flaps will increase aircraft performance and decrease
takeoff distances), the runway is paved, level, and dry, and there are no winds
(a headwind would increase aircraft performance also).  What can we do if we are faced with a wet or
grass runway?  There is no direction
provided by the manufacturer in this case, but we can refer to general recipe rules
that appear in
From the Ground Up
(see the section entitled
Take off
Performance Charts
in Part 5,
General
Airmanship .  Here is a summary of
some of these rules:
A 10% reduction in takeoff
distance can be applied for every 9 KTS of
headwind , and a 10% increase can be applied for every 2 KTS of
tailwind .
A 15% increase in takeoff
distance can be applied to
dry grass
runways ;
runway contaminants  such as long grass, sand, mud, slush, standing
water, or snow can easily double the takeoff distance.
A 10%
decrease in
weight  will result in a 10% decrease
in the takeoff roll, while a 10%
increase
in weight
will result in a 20% increase in the takeoff roll.
It is not uncommon for the aircraft
manufacturer to produce a takeoff performance table, instead of a graph, as
indicated below.  This table
presents data for takeoff weight of 2300 lbs., and in fact the table will
include additional rows showing data for different weights (which has been
excluded here).
The interpretation of tables like this
often involve interpolation.  For example, if the
pressure altitude is 2500’, and the temperature is 10° C, the total distance
required to clear a 50’ obstacle will be the median (or
middle ) point between 1780’ and 1945’—what is 1862.5’, rounded up
to 1863’.  The interpolation process can
also require an second adjustment; consider, for example, if the pressure
altitude is 2500’ and the
temperature is 35° C.
To determine the 50’-obstacle distance in this case, you have to find
the median (middle point) between four numbers—2030, 2180, 2235, and 2395.  The interpolation of this—which works out to 2211’—is shown below.
In some cases, interpolation can be
complicated, as you are not always selecting the median.  In these cases,
just eyeball the table to
come up with your estimate.  The
difference of a few feet won’t make the
difference—if the takeoff surface is
marginal for one reason or another, you wouldn’t take the
chance anyways.
Like the graph data, the table data
contains fine-print information which must also be read carefully, but a final
note should be made with respect to this table concerning the affects of
temperature.  Take a look at the
difference between the distances required for a sea-level takeoff at 0°C and a
sea-level takeoff at 40°—an increase in excess of 20’.  Similarly, observe the effects of altitude on
takeoff performance.  Conducting a takeoff at 5000’ requires almost
twice the distance of a takeoff conducted at sea-level.
Airspeeds
The airspeed at which the aircraft is
travelling through an air mass is referred to as
true airspeed  (TAS).
Unlike a car where the speed of travel
relative to road surface is displayed accurately on the speedometer, the true
airspeed of an aircraft cannot be accurately displayed owing to the effects of
air pressure, temperature, and instrument error.
To reckon with these variable effects on
true airspeed, we differentiate between two additional types of airspeed— calibrated
airspeed  (CAS) and indicated airspeed
(IAS).  TAS is determined by the
manufacturer of a certified aircraft when it is built, and the TAS performance
values for the aircraft are published in the form of a graph or table in the
Pilot Operating Handbook .
To be as accurate as possible, the manufacturer
factors in speed variations for temperature and pressure.  Some aircraft graphs require that you enter
density altitude (see discussion P. 94), while other graphs require that you enter pressure
altitude and temperature separately.  The
example of the cruise performance graph that appears above is similar
to that which appears in the Piper Cherokee. This graph assumes that the
aircraft is flown at gross weight (2150 lbs.), and that wheel fairings are not
fitted to the aircraft’s undercarriage.
With aircraft flown at a lighter weight, it travels faster than the
speeds indicated in this graph, although we are not told how much faster.  If the wheel fairings are installed, we must
add 3 MPH.  The example shown on the
graph shows that a 75% power setting at a density altitude of 2500’ will
produce a speed of approximately 125 MPH.
What is a 75% power setting?  Good
question.
Cruise Power Setting
So we can see now how we determine TAS from
performance graphs in an aircraft
Pilot
Operating Handbook —in the above graph, for the Cherokee, for example—but
the question now arises as to the notion of
percentage
of power .  To successfully predict
TAS, the aircraft manufacturer has to enable the pilot to connect the
instruments in the aircraft cockpit with the percentage of power used, and this
of course is done with the RPM gauge—the speed at which the
engine and propeller are turning.  To do
this, the pilot must refer to another graph (there are many!) as appears below.   In the example indicated on this
graph, 75% power can be established at an altitude 2500’ by setting the
throttle slightly above 2400 RPM.  In
fact most pilots regard 2400 RPM to be the ideal power setting—engine wear is minimized, yet we retain the speed
advantage of flying with a higher TAS.
As altitude is increased, however, 2400 RPM will not produce the full
75% power.  As can be seen in this graph,
2400 RPM at 10000’ will only produce slightly under 60% power, and this, in
turn, means that TAS will be reduced from approximately 125 MPH to just under
120 MPH .
Overall, these graphs will feel somewhat
foreign at first, but very quickly you will develop a sense of comfort—if only
because their use is repetitive.
Fuel Consumption
On July 16, 2009, a
Cessna 172P
was on a VFR flight from
Tofino, B.C., to Victoria, B.C. During the flight down the west coast of
Vancouver Island, the pilot encountered fog along the coast and diverted inland.
In the vicinity of Cowichan Lake Village, B.C., the engine sputtered and lost
power. The pilot transmitted a MAYDAY call on 121.5 MHz and made a forced
landing on the highway, midway between Lake Cowichan Village and Youbou, B.C.
While on short final for the road, the pilot saw power lines crossing the road
and elected to go under them. The aircraft touched down hard, bounced, and the
left wing hit a hydro pole. The aircraft went off the left side of the road,
into a ditch, and nosed over. The aircraft was substantially damaged but the
three occupants were uninjured. Although the ambient temperature was high,
conditions were conducive to the formation of carburetor ice. When the aircraft
was recovered, it was determined that both fuel tanks were dry. No evidence
could be found of fuel draining out of the tanks (no smell of fuel or sign of
fuel spilled on the ground). The aircraft had flown 2.7 hr since leaving
Victoria with 30 U.S. gallons of fuel on board.
TSB File A09P0201 .
There is another crucial concept related to
the cruise power settings of an aircraft, and that is
fuel consumption.  It is absolutely
critical to a pilot’s skill set that the fuel consumption be predicted accurately.  In this regard, the graphs for the Cherokee
are straight forward.  Inserted into the
Range
graphs for the Cherokee (see Pp.
9-6 and 9-7 of the
Pilot Operating
Handbook ) is the table which appears below.   This table, small and simple as it is,
provides the only data presented to the pilot regarding fuel consumption
requirements—with the power set to 75%, the aircraft will burn fuel at a rate
of 8.4 gallons per hour (GPH)—in the case of the Cherokee, the unit is U.S.
gallons.  While the 8.4 GPH figure
applies to a throttle setting of 2400 at an altitude of 2500’, the same
throttle setting up at 10000’ will in fact
consume less fuel—approximately 6.2 GPH.
The reduced fuel consumption for the same throttle setting at higher
altitude is primarily the result of leaning—the higher you go, the more you
will have to lean in order to maintain the optimal fuel/air mixture of 1:15. 1
There are three additional considerations
related to fuel consumption.  Firstly,
the predictions made by the manufacturer in the above table are based on
performance testing of a brand-new Cherokee with a brand-new paint job and a
brand-new engine.  Obviously, the same
level of aerodynamic and engine-thrust efficiency will not occur in a working
Cherokee that has accumulated lots of air time.
Secondly, the above table is presented by the manufacturer on the basis
of specified assumptions or preconditions.
In the case of the Cherokee, the fuel consumption rates assume the
aircraft is flown at maximum gross weight and that the mixture be set to best
economy setting.  If the actual weight of the
aircraft is less than maximum gross the rate of fuel consumption will be
somewhat reduced; if the mixture control is set richer (more fuel) than best
economy, the rate of fuel consumption will be higher.
1
See discussion regarding
fuel mixture control .
Fuel, Distance and Time to Climb
A final consideration related to fuel
consumption relates to the fuel required to climb to altitude.  While climb fuel consumption rates are insignificant in the case
of short or brief climb segments, climb fuel becomes very significant in the
case of extended or prolonged climb segments.  It is considered generally accurate to plan
fuel requirements for a trip with the assumption that the fuel burn rate during
the climb segment is
double
that of fuel burn rate during
cruise.
In the case of the Cherokee, the
Pilot Operating Handbook
does not
provide any definitive data on the rates of fuel consumption during a
climb.  We could extrapolate from the rate
of consumption for 75% power (8.4 GPH) and say that the 100% power would be
10.3 GPH (25% of 8.4 is 2.1, and this could be added to the 8.4 figure), but
there is no direction from the manufacturer to do this, and it leaves us
uncomfortably below the climb rates of fuel consumption one might come to
expect based on experience with piston aircraft.  While the 75% power rate of 8.4 GPH is based
on best economy mixture settings,
aggressive leaning to this extent during a climb could cause engine damage.
To resolve the climb fuel consumption issue in the case of the
Cherokee, we assume
double
the cruise
consumption rate of 8.4 GPH—so the climb rate is 16.8 GPH—and we determine the
time required to climb using the climb performance graph similar to that appears below.
In using this graph, two rates of climb are
determined, one being the rate of climb expected at the bottom of the climb—in the
example show, from an airport located at an elevation of 2500’—and the other
being the rate of climb expected at the top of the climb—in
the example, a cruising altitude of 9500’ is planned.  From these two rates, the average rate of
climb is calculated—e.g., 340’ per minute.
At this rate, it will require approximately 20 minutes to complete the
climb.  Once this time-to-climb is known,
the pilot can determine the fuel required (based on, in the case of Cherokee,
16.8 GPH), and the distance flown (based on 20 minutes at a speed of 74
NM).
It is only after we make such climb
calculations that we can then make determinations for the fuel and time
required for the cruise portion of the flight, since the distance to be covered
in cruise flight is the total distance from the departure airport to the
destination airport, less the distance required to climb.  As a rule, allowance for
the effects of wind is not factored into climb speed.
The Cherokee method for calculating fuel,
distance, and time to climb is relatively simplified in that it is based on one
figure—the aircraft’s rate of climb.
Many aircraft
Pilot Operating
Handbooks , however, present a more detailed and accurate graph which the
pilot uses to do the math.  The graph
which appears below in based on the climb performance chart found in
the Piper Lance, a big sister for the Cherokee 140 that seats seven people, has
retractable gear, and is pulled along by a big 300 horsepower engine (the Piper
Lance achieves speeds during flight that are similar to the twin engine Piper
Seneca).
As can be seen from this graph, the pilot
has to calculate the fuel, distance and time to climb from sea level to the
proposed cruising altitude; from these values, the pilot must then subtract the
fuel, distance and time required to climb from sea level to the height of the
departure airport.
The calculations which appear on this graph
show the results for a planned climb to 10500’ from a airport of departure with
an elevation of 10500.’
Landing
Errors
Wheelbarrowing —danger in tricycle gear aeroplanes, caused by pilot placing too
much weight on nose gear with forward control pressure; during takeoffs, this
occurs when the pilot attempts to excessively hold the aircraft on the ground;
during landings, it occurs commonly in combination with full flaps and
excessive speed—again excessive attempts are made to hold the aircraft on the
ground, and braking power is reduced as the main gear lacks weight.
Solution:
Go around.
Balloons and Bounces —excessive back
pressure during the flare for landing; the aircraft is caught gaining height
above the runway at near-stall speeds—if the aircraft is then dropped onto the
runway a bounce will be produced.
Solution :
Go around or, if safe, add power to
re-establish the flare .
Porpoising —aircraft is bounced back and forth on the nose and main gear,
caused by improper landing attitude and excessive speed.  Smoothly regain the correct landing attitude and add power to become
airborne again— go around .
Landing Illusions
Rain on the windshield
causes a distortion—refraction—that
makes terrain appear lower than it actually is—a hilltop ½ mile away may appear
200’ lower than it actually is.
Also, landing on a upslope runway presents a similar illusion—that
you are higher than what you actually are.
Here is a summary of the landing illusions that pilots can experience:
Situation
Illusion
Outcome
Runway narrower than usual
Too high
Tendency to flare late
Runway wider than usual
Too low
Tendency to flare early
Runway slopes up
Too high
Tendency to make low approach
Runway slopes down
Too low
Tendency to make high approach
Terrain before runway is higher
Too low
Tendency to make high approach
No lights before runway at night (black-hole)
Too high
Tendency to make low approach
Air very clear at night
Closer to airport than actual fact
Tendency to descend too early
Smoggy or hazy air
Farther from airport than actual fact
Tendency to descend too late
Precision
Approach Path Indicators (PAPI)
PAPIs are commonly found at airports, and they provide the pilot with
precise visual feedback with respect to the position of the aircraft on
glidepath prescribed for the
airport.  They are especially useful for
night approaches, where the ever-present risk is for the pilot to allow the
aircraft to inadvertently descend below the glide path into the “black hole”
that sometimes exists below the final approach path when there are little or no
ground lights.
Two types of PAPIs are commonly used—a two-light presentation, and a
four-light presentation (aboved).  “On-glide”
indications are provided when the PAPI lights are evenly split—one-half are
red, and the other half is white ( “red and white, you’re all right” ).  An all-white PAPI display indicates the aircraft
is high on the glidepath, while all-red display indicates the aircraft is low ( “red
and red . . you’re dead” ) .
Landing Rules of Thumb
As a rule, landings airspeeds
should be 1.3 times the aircraft’s power-off stalling speed (calibrated) in a
landing configuration (V so )—i.e., full flaps, and gear down (if
applicable).  The airspeed should only be
flown after all manoeuvring for landing is completed—thus it only applies to
“short final” phase of landing, beginning at the midpoint of the final approach
leg.
Note that this rule does not apply to all
aircraft; as the landing speeds in some aircraft may be prescribed in
Pilot
Operating Handbook
without variation.
Note additionally that the 1.3 V so
rule applies to stalling speeds for the
actual
weight of the
aircraft, as per the stalling speeds found the aircraft’s
Pilot Operating
Handbook .  Without this information,
however, weight adjustments to the final approach airspeed can be made: reduce
V so
by one-half the percentage to which the aircraft is loaded below
the gross weight.  For example, if an
aircraft has a V so
of 50 KTS, the short final is normally flown at
65 KTS calibrated.  If, however, the
maximum gross weight is 2100 lbs., and its actual weight is 1800 lbs., its
approach speed should be further reduced by approximately 7% (one-half of
14.29%)—instead of 65 KTS, the approach should therefore be flown at 61 KTS
(60.45 KTS to be precise).
When landing in gusting conditions, the final approach speed should be increased by one-half the
gust
velocity .
Crosswind Landing Limitations
Approximately 10% of all light Canadian
aircraft accidents are attributed to pilots’ inability to control the aircraft
during crosswind landings.
Using crosswind chart (found in the
Canada
Flight Supplement ), winds anticipated during a landing can be broken down
into two portions: the headwind component, and
the crosswind component.  The crosswind component is
used to predict aircraft performance.
Students should be readily familiar with the use of these graphs.
As a rule, North American aircraft are
designed to withstand a maximum crosswind equal
to 20% of the aircraft stall speed; this figure, however, is conservative as a
skilled and proficient pilot is typically able to land with crosswind
components equal to 30% of the stall speed.
Students often error with respect to the
proper conversion of winds reported in “magnetic” degrees, and winds reported
in “true” degrees.  Just remember that
only the winds communicated by a control tower or by ATIS (recorded airport
information transmitted on a radio frequency) is in “magnetic” degrees; all
written weather reports regarding winds, including airport terminal forecasts,
describe the winds in “true” degrees, and must therefore be converted to
“magnetic”.  Remember that a runway heading
is based on “magnetic” degrees in the Southern Domestic Airspace.
Mid-air Collisions
1
A small percentage of these accidents occur head on;
nearly all occur in daylight hours in VFR conditions within 5 nautical miles of
an airport, usually in the traffic circuit.
A pilot is five times more likely to have a mid-air collision with
an aircraft flying in the same direction than with one flying in the opposite
direction.
If an approaching aircraft appears
fixed , you are on a
collision course; if the approaching aircraft has movement, there is no risk of
collision.  Be sure you do not turn the
wrong way.
Never turn, climb, or descend into a blind spot.
During flight, the critical areas to scan are 60° left and right of the flight path and 10° above and below.
Further Readings:
AOPA's Collison Avoidance
Bird Strikes
d Strikes
Since 1912, 200 deaths have resulted from bird strikes on aircraft.
The greatest risk is in flight below 2,500’ where 99% of all bird
strikes occur.
The faster the aircraft the greater the risk—up to 80-90 KTS, birds
have time to get out of the way.
The greatest risk is during March and April and during September and
October, when bird migration occurs.
If you see birds ahead of you attempt to pass over, rather than
under, as birds dive downward when threatened.
Anticipate that a bird striking the windscreen will penetrate; use
the instrument panel as a shield, anticipate blood and guts, and remember to
fly the aircraft.
All bird strikes are to be reported; see the RAC Section of the
AIP .
Flight over Water, Whiteouts, and Mountain Flying
Flight over Water
Common sense is to wear a life jacket whenever your aircraft is beyond gliding distance from shore.  Ditching in
water will create panic among already traumatised pilot and passengers as
icy-cold water floods what will likely be an inverted cockpit.  The dark cabin will be full of debris, loose
wires, cables and seatbelts, making the retrieval of life jackets after
ditching virtually impossible.
The key is remaining calm.  Do not release your seatbelt until you are
ready to exit the cabin.  Locating the
exit handle will be difficult while upside down in murky water, so locate the
exit handle while still in your harness.
Even with the water pressure equalized on both sides, the door could
still be difficult to open, so be prepared to push hard.  If unsuccessful, force a window by anchoring
yourself firmly, pushing out against the window with both feet.  Once the door is open, never let go of the
handle until you are out; should you let go, you may not be able to locate it
again.  Therefore, release your seatbelt
while holding the handle and pull yourself out (do not kick as someone may be
behind you).  If you get stuck, do not
panic; back up and turn a little, then try again.  Once you are clear of the aircraft, inflate
your lifejacket (if you inflate your life jacket in the cockpit, this could
impede your egress).
Further Readings:
Transport Canada's
Importance of Underwater-Egress Pre-Flight Briefing for Passengers
AIM : Flight Operations over Water
Whiteout
The lighting associated
with
whiteout conditions
is
such that the terrain is virtually devoid of visual clues.  The eye can no longer discern the surface or
terrain features.  There is a uniform
white glow without the normal spatial indicators such as shadows, horizon, or
clouds.
Whiteouts occur whenever
unbroken snow-covered terrain lies below a uniformly overcast sky whereby the
light from the sky is about equal to the light from the surface.
The danger of
controlled
flight into terrain
(know
as CFIT ) in
whiteout conditions is especially high when a pilot does not recognize the
condition.  When recognized, immediately
climb and turn toward areas where sharp terrain features exist—be prepared to
transition to instruments.
Further Reading:
Transport Canada's
Coming to a Theatre near you: Whiteout
Mountain
Flying
Mountain flying
presents increased risks.  Never fly in
the mountains without extensive pre-flight planning and a thorough weather
briefing.  Here are some rules of thumb
derived from
Tips on Mountain Flying
published by Transport Canada,
Aviation Safety:
Flight routing should be
arranged to avoid topography that could prevent a safe landing.
Flight routing should be along
populated areas and well-known mountain passes.
Sufficient altitude should be
maintained at all time so as to enable a power-off glide to a safe landing
area.
VFR Navigation Charts
(VNC) should be used rather than
World Aeronautical Charts
(WAC) as they provide greater detail for air pilotage; the
routing, including ground clearances, should be carefully studied before
flight.
When faced with a “sea of
mountains,” believe your compass (bearing in mind compass irregularities) as it may be your only means of getting out of trouble.
Do not fly when the winds are at
or below mountain peak level, or
at your intended cruise altitude, are above 30 KTS.  Winds above 20 KTS should be avoided.
In anticipation of possible
down drafts, always cross a mountain ridge at a 45° angle so as to allow a turn away from
the ridge.
Know the wind direction at all
times, and be on the lookout for changes in wind direction and velocity.
Never fly in the vicinity of
abrupt changes in the terrain, such as cliffs or ridges as they can be
associated with severe turbulence.
In anticipation of downdrafts
and severe turbulence, cross mountain ridges at maximum altitude, and
never with less than 1,500’ separation.
Anticipate downdrafts on the
leeward side of mountains, and
updrafts on the windward side;
anticipate downdrafts between 1,500’ and 2,000’ per minute.
Do not panic if a downdraft is encountered; they usually cease with sufficient height above
ground that will enable manoeuvring safely away.  Do not count on this, however, in extremely
turbulent air or in canyon areas.
If you encounter a severe
downdraft, use full power and maintain the best rate of climb speed for the
altitude at which you are operating; being cautious of the stall speed, attempt
to fly to an updraft or smooth air.
Remember that the actual
horizon is near the base of distant mountains; improperly using the mountain
peaks as the horizon will place the aircraft in a slow-flight attitude unable
to climb.
Never fly up the middle of a
canyon; instead, fly along one side or the other in case a 180-degree turn is
required.
If possible, fly up the right
side of a canyon in anticipation of other aircraft flying in the opposite
direction.
Beware of flying up canyons,
valleys, and passes where the rise in terrain could exceed an aircraft climb
capability.
Beware of flying below a cloud
ceiling in mountain passes—while the cloud base could be constant, the distance
between the cloud base and the ground could decrease owing to rising terrain.
Further Readings:
Transport Canada's Tips of Mountain Flying Part I
Transport Canada's Tips on Mountain Flying Part II
Transport Canada's
Looking Back: Flying into a Mountain Trap
Be Prepared!
Some time back, a
student of ours, who was also an Airworthiness Inspector with Transport Canada, brought in a letter written by a pilot who
experienced a near-fatal flying accident during a mountain flight in the summer
of 1997.  Copies of the letter were made
and distributed to the class, and the effect on those of us reading it was
dramatic to say the least.  So the
lessons learned by this pilot can be passed on to newer generations of pilots,
the letter is included below.  The
writing is unedited, and appears as it was written.  As the author writes, if the letter stops any
one of us from repeating the mistakes that were made, the experience will have
at least some worthwhile benefit.
There are many
messages or lessons to derive from this, but perhaps the most important is to
be prepared
to go down , especially in the mountains.  While the author demonstrates preparedness in
many respects—equipment taken on board the aircraft, the use of flight
planning, etc.—strong criticism must be directed at the decision to press on in
bad weather, and the decision to enter cloud as a desperate attempt to remedy
the situation.  There is
never
a
circumstance in flying where a VFR pilot must fly on into poor weather.  The loss of visual reference during a
VFR flight is likely a case of poor planning, and is always associated with
poor decision-making.  All pilots are
trained to perform precautionary landings on unprepared landing surfaces, and
by losing sight of ground, the author gave up this last resort.  Here, then, is the story:
ON
THURSDAY 21 ST
OF AUGUST 1997, AFTER GETTING A WEATHER REPORT FROM
WILLIAM’S LAKE FLIGHT SERVICES, I FILED A FLIGHT PLAN.
THE TRIP WAS MEANT TO TAKE US TO EDEN NORTH, ALBERTA, WHICH IS 45 KILOMETERS WEST
OF EDMONTON.  I FILED MY
ROUTE DIRECT TO EDSON, ALLOWING A STOPOVER THERE OF ONE HOUR AND THEN ON TO EDEN NORTH.  I HAD FULL FUEL ON BOARD (4 ½ HOURS), 2
PASSENGERS, CHRIS DANTON AND BENNO HEGGLIN AND MYSELF, STEVE RANDELL, THE
PILOT.
WE HAD
A MINIMAL AMOUNT OF BAGGAGE, INCLUDING OUR SKYDIVING GEAR, AS WE WERE HEADING
FOR THE CANADIAN NATIONALS.  I HAD
ESTIMATED THE PLANE’S GROSS WEIGHT AT 2630 LBS AND WAS WITHIN THE MAXIMUM
WEIGHT LIMITS FOR THE CESSNA 182.  MY
PLANE WAS CONFIGURED FOR SKYDIVERS, WHICH MEANS THERE IS ONLY A PILOT’S SEAT IN
THE PLANE.  THE PASSENGERS SIT ON A HIGH
DENSITY FOAM FLOOR MAT AND HAVE LEG STRAPS INSTALLED IN THE FLOOR TO SECURE
THEM.  THE PASSENGER DOOR OPENS UP INTO
THE WING.  THERE IS A BAR ATTACHED TO THE
FLOOR AND INTO THE SOCKET WHERE THE SECOND CONTROL YOKE WOULD NORMALLY BE.  THE FRONT PASSENGER CAN COMFORTABLY LEAN BACK
AGAINST THIS, FACING THE REAR OF THE PLANE.
THE SECOND PASSENGER SITS DIRECTLY BEHIND THE PILOT’S SEAT, ALSO FACING
TO THE REAR OF THE PLANE.
WE
WERE AIRBORNE BY 7:15 A.M., OPENED OUR FLIGHT PLAN IN THE
AIR WITH WILLIAM’S LAKE AND STARTED OUR TRIP.  OUR ROUTE
WOULD TAKE US DIRECTLY OVER CANIM LAKE, MAHOOD LAKE AND MYRTLE LAKE TO THE NORTH OF BLUE RIVER AND OVER THE ROCKIES TO EDSON.
OVER
MYRTLE LAKE LAYERS OF CLOUD WERE MOVING AROUND AT
ALL LEVELS OF FLIGHT BUT GAVE ME NO CONCERN AS THE GROUND WAS ALWAYS VERY
VISIBLE.  COMING OVER THE NORTH THOMPSON
WE WERE AT 6000 FEET ABOVE SEA LEVEL, THE CLOUDS WERE BROKEN AND SEEMED TO BE
MOVING CONTINUALLY, WITH THE UPPER WINDS BEING IN THE 20 KNOT RANGE BLOWING
FROM THE EAST.
I
DECIDED TO CIRCLE BLUE RIVER AND “HANG TOUGH” FOR A FEW
MINUTES TO SEE IF IT WOULD GET WORSE OR BETTER.
WE HAD THE TOWN OF BLUE RIVER AND THE RUNWAY IN FULL
VIEW.  LOOKING SOUTH DOWN THE THOMPSON I
HAD CLEAR VISION THROUGH THE LAYERS OF CLOUDS WITH A CEILING ABOVE ME OF ABOUT
1000 FEET, BUT WAS AWARE THAT THE VALLEY BOTTOM APPEARED TO BE “FOGGED IN” BUT
FULL OF HOLES.
AT
THIS POINT I DECIDED I WOULD FLY THE VFR ROUTE TO VALEMONT AND FOLLOW THE
HIGHWAY THROUGH THE ROCKIES.  THERE WERE LOW CLOUD CELLS OVER
THE HIGHWAY BUT THE ROAD WAS VERY OBVIOUS.
TEN TO FIFTEEN MINUTES NORTH OF BLUE RIVER, THE WAY AHEAD SEEMED TO BE
CLOSING AND THE WEATHER SYSTEM BECOMING VERY ‘IFFY” VFR.
I TOLD
CHRIS AND BENNO WE WOULD BE HEADING BACK TO KAMLOOPS.  I TRIED NOTIFYING FLIGHT SERVICES ON 126.7 TO
INFORM THEM OF MY DECISION, BUT GOT NO RESPONSE.  I THEN DID A 180 DEGREE TURN.  I ENTERED GOTO CYKA (KAMLOOPS) INTO MY GPS TO GIVE US THE
QUICKEST ROUTE.
THE
ROAD BELOW WAS GETTING HARDER AND HARDER TO SEE AND IT BECAME APPARENT I WAS
NOW FLYING BETWEEN SOME MAJOR CLOUD LAYERS.
WE CIRCLED IN THIS SPACE FOR TWENTY TO THIRTY MINUTES, OCCASIONALLY WE
WOULD SPOT A TINY HOLE AND THE HIGHWAY WOULD BE MOMENTARILY VISIBLE.  ALL OTHER AVENUES WERE BLOCKED.
IT WAS
OBVIOUS TO US THAT WE MUST BE CLOSE OR EVEN OVER BLUE RIVER.  WE KNEW THAT THESE CELLS WERE NOW CLOSING
OVER AND THAT WE WOULD SHORTLY BE ENGULFED IN THEM.
I
ASKED BENNO, WHO HAD THE VFR MAP IN HIS HAND, TO GIVE ME THE HIGHEST POINT TO
THE WEST OF HIGHWAY 5.  THIS HE DID.  I HAD REALIZED THAT WE WERE GOING TO BE IN
THE CLOUDS ANY SECOND AND HAD DECIDED THAT IF WE COULD FLY THE KAMLOOPS TRACK
AT AROUND 8000 FEET ABOVE SEA LEVEL WE WOULD CLEAR ALL OBSTRUCTIONS.  I ALSO HAD IT IN MY MIND THAT THESE WERE
MOVING CLOUD CELLS AND THAT IT WOULD NOT BE LONG BEFORE WE BROKE OUT OF THEM.
I TOLD
CHRIS AND BENNO THAT WE WOULD BE FLYING IN THE CLOUDS, AND THAT I WAS NOT HAPPY
ABOUT IT AT ALL.  TO ENTER CLOUDS WAS NOT
MY CHOICE:  THEY CLOSED AROUND US AND I
KNEW NOW THAT I WOULD HAVE TO
CONCENTRATE ON INSTRUMENTS.
I WAS
CLIMBING AT 400 FEET PER MINUTE AT 110 MILES PER HOUR.  I WAS RELAXED AND IT SEEMED TO ME THAT THINGS
WERE GOING WELL.  I KEPT THE WINGS LEVEL
WITH THE ARTIFICIAL HORIZON AND KEPT SWEEPING THE OTHER GAUGES WITH MY EYES.  I WAS APPREHENSIVE, BUT CONVINCED MYSELF I
COULD DO THIS.  I SHOULD MENTION THAT MY
GPS IS A HANDHELD THAT I HAD MOUNTED MYSELF JUST HIGHER THAN THE TOP OF THE
DASH.
WE HAD
STARTED OUR CLIMB AT 6000 FEET AND WERE AT 7800 FEET ABOVE SEA LEVEL WHEN I
THOUGHT I SHOULD CHECK THE TRACK AND BEARING TO KAMLOOPS ON THE GPS.  UP UNTIL THIS POINT I HAD REFUSED TO LET
MYSELF LOOK OUT OF THE WINGSHIELD.
I
LOOKED UP AT THE GPS AND AT THE SAME TIME LOOKED OUT OF THE WINDSHIELD.  I CAN’T TELL YOU WHAT I EXPECTED TO SEE,
PROBABLY BLUE SKIES AND A HORIZON!  I
BECAME VERY QUICKLY DISORIENTATED AND JUST WANTED THE PLANE TO STOP.
THE
COMPASS WAS CONTINUALLY SPINNING EAST, AND I INFORMED BENNO AND CHRIS THAT I
DIDN’T UNDERSTAND WHY I COULDN’T MAKE THE PLANE GO SOUTH.  I LOOKED AT MY AIRSPEED, IT WAS BELOW 30
MILES PER HOUR.  I KNEW WE WERE EnTERING
A STALL, MAYBE A SPIN, I PUSHED THE NOSE DOWN.
I TOLD
THE GUYS I HAD SCREWED UP AND THAT I WAS SORRY; I DID NOT EXPECT THAT WE COULD
RECOVER FROM THIS, BEING IN SUCH DENSE CLOUDS WITH NO REFERENCE POINTS.  I STARED BACK AT THE INSTRUMENTS.  THE AIRSPEED WAS HORRENDOUS AND WE WERE
DESCENDING BETWEEN THREE AND FOUR THOUSAND FEET A MINUTE.
I NOW
REALIZED WE WERE IN A SPIRAL DIVE.  I
GRABBED THE THROTTLE AND NEARLY PULLED IT OUT OF THE DASH.  I HAD NO IDEA IF WE WERE DESCENDING CLOCKWISE
OR ANTI-CLOCKWISE.  I PUT BOTH FEET ON
THE RUDDERS AND PULLED BACK ON THE YOKE.
WITHIN SECONDS EVERTHING WAS FLOATING IN THE PLANE.  IT FELT LIKE ALL OF US WERE ON THE CEILING
WITH THE BAGGAGE.  WE ARE STILL IN THE
CLOUDS.
IT
SEEMED TO ME LIKE THERE WAS AN EXPLOSION AND THEN EVERYTHING WENT VERY PEACEFUL
FOR A FEW SECONDS.  THE WINDSHIELD WAS
GONE.  THE PILOT’S DOOR WAS GONE.  THE TOP OF THE DASH INCLUDING MY GPS WAS
GONE.  OUR HEADSETS AND ANYTHING LOOSE
WAS GONE.  MY SKYDIVING GEAR AND SOME
BAGGAGE WAS GONE.  WE WERE STILL IN THE
CLOUDS.
CHRIS
AND BENNO WERE FIGHTING TO CLOSE THE JUMP DOOR.
THEY HAD TO USE MY CHEST STRAP TO LEVER IT IN.  IT WOULD NOT FIT.  IT WAS OBVIOUS THE PLANE WAS BENT.
I
SHOUTED TO BENNO TO GIVE ME SOME SKYDIVING GOGGLES.  THE RAIN AND SNOW IN THE CLOUDS WERE STINGING
MY EYES.  BENNO QUICKLY GOT THEM FROM HIS
GEAR BAG AND PUT THEM OVER MY HEAD.  WE
ARE STILL IN THE CLOUDS BUT THINGS SEEMED VERY PEACEFUL.  WE WERE DESCENDING AT 90 MILES AN HOUR.  I THINK BEING SKYDIVERS THAT THE DOOR AND
WINDSHIELD BEING MISSING WERE IRRELEVANT TO US.
WE SPENT MOST WEEKENDS JUMPING FROM PLANES.
I
REMEMBER WONDERING HOW CHRIS HAD REMAINED IN THE PLANE WHEN EVERTHING ELSE HAD
GONE OUT THE DOOR.  I INFORMED THEM THAT
WE WOULD PROBABLY HIT A MOUNTAIN ANYTIME NOW.
BENNO
SAW A BRIGHT AREA TO MY LEFT AND I TURNED THE PLANE AS BEST I COULD.  NONE OF THE CONTROLS SEEMED TO BE RESPONDING
WELL.  THE PLANE WAS IN A STEADY DESCENT,
FULL POWER DID NOTHING TO CHANGE THINGS.
WE WERE GOING DOWN.  WE HAD BROKEN
OUT OF THE CLOUDS IN THE MIDDLE OF A STEEP CANYON WHICH APPEARED TO HAVE NO
EXIT.  THE CEILING WAS ABOUT 800 FEET
ABOVE GROUND LEVEL AND POURING RAIN.  I
INFORMED BENNO AND CHRIS WE WERE GOING TO CRASH WITHIN MINUTES AND TO PREPARE
THEMSELVES.
THERE
WERE GLACIERS TO OUR RIGHT AND A MEADOW BELOW THEM NEARLY TWO MILES LONG.  A WHITE RIVER RAN THROUGH THE CENTRE OF THE
VALLEY, WITH AREAS OF SPRUCE HERE AND THERE.
TO THE LEFT OF THE RIVER SEEMED TO BE ACRES OF WHAT SEEMED LIKE
WILLOWS.  WHERE SHOULD I LAND?
IN THE
BACK OF MY MIND I COULD HEAR LARRY AND THE GUYS AT SPRINGHOUSE TALKING ABOUT
ALWAYS TAKING THE SMALL TREES.  I DECIDED
ON THE SMALL TREES.  THE MEADOW WAS TOO
GOOD TO BE TRUE.  I SLOWED THE PLANE DOWN
USING EACH NOTCH OF FLAPS AND WENT INTO THE CRASH SITE AT 40 DEGREE FLAPS AND
AROUND 38 PER MILE AN HOUR AIRSPEED.  I
TURNED THE FUEL OFF.
* * * * * * * * * * * *
MY
HEAD HURTS.  THERE IS BLOOD RUNNING DOWN
MY FACE AND NECK.  CHRIS IS KICKING AT
THE PASSENGER DOOR.  FLAMES ARE COMING
FROM UNDER THE COWLINGS AND DASH.  I AM
TELLING EVERYONE TO GET THE HELL OUT.
CHRIS HAS KICKED THE DOOR OPEN ENOUGH TO GET OUT AND DRAGS SOME BAGGAGE
OUT WITH HIM AROUND THE PILOT’S SIDE AND THEN GOT THE BAGGAGE AND SURVIVAL GEAR
OUT.  I GRABBED THE FIRE EXTINGUISHER AND
RELEASED IT INTO THE ENGINE COMPARTMENT; IT DID NOTHING.
I
REALISED THAT THE PLANE WAS GOING TO BURN.
I PULLING THE KEYS FROM THE MAGNETO SWITCH AND TRIED TO OPEN THE BAGGAGE
DOOR SO I COULD GET THE ELT 1
OUT.  THE PLANE WAS BENT AROUND THE DOOR
AND WOULDN’T OPEN.
THERE
WAS A BIG ROCK CLOSE BY.  CHRIS WAS
HERDING US BEHIND THE ROCK.  IT APPEARS
HE HAD BAGGAGE HANGING ON HIM EVERYWHERE.
BENNO SEEMS DAZED AND CONFUSED.
HE IS BREATHING VERY POORLY AND HIS MOVEMENTS ARE SLOW.
WE
CROUCH DOWN.  AT LEAST ONE OF THE FUEL
TANKS BLOWS AND THE PLANE IS ENGULFED IN FLAMES.  THIS HAS ALL HAPPENED IN LESS THAN 4
MINUTES!  I AM CONCERNED THAT I DIDN’T
GET THE ELECTRONIC LOCATION TRANSMITTER OUT.
THIS IS A WORRY FOR ME.
IT IS
ABOUT 9:30 A.M.  AND AT
THIS POINT NO ONE HAS PANICKED.  CHRIS
HAS MADE BENNO AND ME STAY PUT; HE HAS GONE TO THE RIVER TO FIND A
CAMPSITE.  WE ARE IN THE BOTTOM OF 10-12
FOOT ALDER BRUSH AND CAN SEE NOTHING.
BENNO’S BACK IS CAUSING HIM MUCH PAIN BY NOW AND I AM BECOMING WEAK
QUICKLY.  THERE IS BLOOD EVERYWHERE ON
ME.
CHRIS
HAS FOUND A SMALL GRAVEL BAR AND IS LEADING US TO IT.  HE TELLS BENNO TO SIT DOWN AND STAY THERE;
THE RAIN IS RELENTLESS.  CHRIS DRAGS ME
OVER TO THE RIVER, HE IS SHOUTING TO BENNO TO FIND THE FIRST AID KITS.  WE HAD TWO ON BOARD.  HE PULLS OFF MY T-SHIRT AND HOLDS MY HEAD ON
THE SKULL.  HIS INDUSTRIAL FIRST AID
KNOWLEDGE IS PRICELESS IN THIS SITUATION.
HE USES TENSION BANDAGES AND A COMPRESSION PACK TO BANDAGE MY HEAD UP.  HE THEN TELLS ME TO SIT WITH BENNO.  CHRIS ASSEMBLES THE TENT AND WE ALL SIT
INSIDE.  SOAKING WET BUT OUT OF THE RAIN.
WE ARE
NOT TALKING MUCH, HOPING FOR THE RAIN TO STOP.
I ASK CHRIS IF HE CAN GO BACK TO THE PLANE FOR THE ELT.  I DESCRIBE WHAT IT LOOKS LIKE AND WHERE IT IS
LOCATED.  THERE WERE ALSO CHOCOLATE BARS,
MAPS, ETC., THAT WERE LEFT IN THE PLANE AND MIGHT BE OKAY.  HE TAKES THE AXE AND BLAZES A TRAIL BACK TO
THE PLANE.  HE RETURNS TO SAY THE PLANE
IS COMPLETELY BURNT WITH JUST THE TAIL AND WINGTIPS LEFT.
THERE
IS NOWHERE TO LIGHT A FIRE.  WE NEED HEAT
DESPERATELY AS WE ARE ALL SOAKED TO THE SKIN.
WE SPEND TIME TRYING TO FIGURE OUT WHERE WE ARE.  THE CONCENSUS IS THAT THE GLACIERS MUST BE ON
THE NORTH SIDE OF THE MOUTAINS AND THEREFORE WE ARE IN A EAST-WEST VALLEY.  WE DECIDE THAT THE THOMPSON RIVER MUST BE TEN MILES TO THE WEST
OF US.  THERE IS NO LOGGING IN THIS
VALLEY AS FAR AS WE CAN SEE.  CHRIS AND
BENNO WANT TO KNOW ABOUT THE ELT.  I TOLD
THEM THAT THREE MINUTES WASN’T LONG ENOUGH FOR THE SATELLITE TO PICK UP THE SIGNAL
AND THAT IF WE HADN’T SEEN A PLANE BY THE NEXT MORNING THAT WE WERE PROBABLY ON
OUR OWN.  AFTER READING THROUGH MY SURVIVAL GUIDE WE
DESIGNATED CHRIS OUR LEADER AND FOLLOW HIS INSTRUCTIONS.
CROSSING
THE RIVER AND GETTING TO A SMALL GROVE OF SPRUCE TREES WAS IMPERATIVE.  WE DECIDED TO DO THIS NOW AS WE WERE WET
ANYWAY.  CHRIS MADE ONE MORE TRIP BACK TO
THE PLANE TO CONFIRM THE ELT WAS BURNT.
HE CLEANED THE DEBRIS FROM THE WINGS AND SCRATCHED IN THE WING “THREE
SURVIVORS, TWO INJURED.  HEADING DOWN THE
VALLEY.
HE
THREW STICKS INTO THE RIVER TO GAUGE ITS DEPTH THEN WITH BENNO AND HIMSELF AND
AS MUCH OF OUR BAGGAGE AS THEY COULD CARRY THEY CROSSED THE FAST MOVING, ICE
COLD, CHEST DEEP WATER AND DISAPPEARED FROM MY SIGHT.
BEFORE
LEAVING ME IN THE TENT, CHRIS HAD TOLD ME TO SIT UPRIGHT AND BE AS STILL AS
POSSIBLE.  I WAS STILL LOSING A LOT OF BLOOD.  HE GAVE ME 3 CUBES OF COOKING CHOCOLATE AND
AN APPLE TO EAT.  DRINKING WATER WAS
PLENTIFUL.
AFTER
WHAT SEEMED LIKE A LOT OF TIME PASSING BY I HEARD CRIS SHOUTING.  HE HAD MISTAKENLY CROSSED THE RIVER IN THE WRONG PLACE.  IT WAS TOO DEEP FOR HIM AND HAD PULLED HIM
UNDER.  I HAD TO CONVINCE HIM THAT HE HAD
CROSSED FURTHER UP, WHICH HE THEN DID.
HE PACKED UP THE TENT AND THE TWO OF US MADE OUR WAY BACK ACROSS THE RIVER.
WHEN
CHRIS HAD CROSSED WITH BENNO HE HAD CLIMBED TO A HIGH POINT TO BE ABLE TO SEE
THE VALLEY AND TO SELECT THE CAMPSITE TO WHICH HE NOW TOOK ME.  BENNO HAD A GOOD FIRE GOING CONSIDERING ALL
THE WOOD WAS SOAKING WET.  WE GOT OUT OF
OUR WET CLOTHES AND DRIED OFF AS BEST WE COULD.
I GOT INTO A SLEEPING BAG AND INTO THE TENT WHERE I WAS WRAPPED IN A
THERMAL SHEET.
THE
RAIN HAD EASED OFF.  BENNO AND CHRIS USED
THE REMAINING DAYLIGHT TIME TO GET EVERYTHING AS DRY AS POSSIBLE.  THEY ALSO MADE A MEAL OUT OF THE DRIED
POWDERED FOOD IN THE SURVIVAL KIT.
AT
DARK WE SAT BY THE FIRE AND I EXPLAINED HOW MUCH TIME WOULD GO BY ONCE MY
FLIGHT PLAN WAS COMPLETED BEFORE ANYONE WOULD START LOOKING FOR US.  WE WERE CONCERNED WHAT OUR FAMILIES WOULD BE
GOING THROUGH.  WE THEN WENT TO BED BUT
NONE OF US WAS ABLE TO GET MUCH SLEEP MAKING THIS A VERY LONG NIGHT.
THE
FACT THAT NO PLANES HAD GONE OVER IN THE AFTERNOON SURPRISED ME.  TOWARDS EVENING THE WEATHER HAD LIFTED AND
VISIBILITY HAD IMPROVED.  THIS LED ME TO
BELIEVE THAT THE ELT HAD NOT BEEN HEARD AND THAT WE SHOULD HAVE AN ALTERNATE
PLAN.
THERE
WAS NOT ENOUGH FIREWOOD AT OUR CAMPSITE TO HAVE A FIRE OF ANY SIZE.  SO WE DECIDED THAT IF NO PLANE HAD SHOWED UP
WITHIN A FEW HOURS THAT MORNING AND WITH THE VERY LIMITED FOOD SUPPLIES WE HAD
WE SHOULD START MAKING OUR WAY FURTHER DOWN THE VALLEY.
CHRIS
KEPT THE FLARE GUN READY AT ALL TIMES.
WE DECIDED TO MOVE AT A VERY CASUAL PACE.  EVEN THOUGH IT WASN’T RAINING WALKING THROUGH
THE MEADOWS AND BRUSH WAS INCREDIBLY DIFFICULT AND WE WERE ONCE AGAIN SOAKED TO
THE SKIN.  CHRIS MADE A TRAIL AS BEST HE
COULD.  WE HAD DECIDED TO WALK FOR 6
HOURS EACH DAY, SETTING UP CAMP BY MID AFTERNOON TO GIVE LOTS OF TIME TO DRY
OUT OUR GEAR BY THE FIRE AND REPLENISH OUR ENERGIES.  THE TERRAIN WE WERE WALKING IN WAS OLD
ORIGINAL GROWTH AND WAS ALMOST IMPASSABLE.
AT ONE TIME IN THE BRUSH WE HAD AN ANIMAL FOLLOWING US BUT AFTER
SHOUTING AT IT, LEFT US ALONE.  THE
HORSEFLIES, BUGS AND MOSQUITOS WERE UNBEARABLE.
AFTER
TRAVELING WHAT SEARCH AND RESCUE LATER ESTIMATED TO BE 5 KILOMETERS WE STOPPED
IN SOME SPRUCE TREES ABOVE A VERY STEEP PART OF THE CANYON.  CHRIS HAD KEPT US GOING BUT REALIZED AT EVERY
STOP BENNO AND I WERE GETTING SLOWER AND SLOWER.  WE SHARED AN ORANGE HERE AND DEBATED WHETHER WE
SHOULD MAKE CAMP.
SHORTLY
AFTER WE COULD HEAR A SMALL PLANE ENGINE.
WE NEEDED TO HAVE A FLARE READY.
IT WAS A FLOAT PLANE AND IT DIDN’T SEEM SO FAR AWAY.  UNFORTUNATELY IT BANKED AWAY FROM US AND WAS
GONE.  I THINK THIS WAS OUR FIRST DOWN
MOMENT, REALIZING THAT THE ODDS OF BEING SPOTTED WERE SO SLIM.
WE
KNOW NOW THAT THE PLANE BELONGED TO DICK MUNROE WHOSE PASSENGERS WERE OUR
WIVES, LINDA AND KAREN AND FRIEND DENNIS WICK.
WITHIN
A VERY SHORT TIME WE COULD HEAR ANOTHER PLANE.
IT WAS A SEARCH AND RESCUE BUFFALO.  IT STARTED UP THE VALLEY BUT TURNED AS CHRIS
FIRED A FLARE RIGHT UNDER IT.  IT RETURNED
CLOSER TO US AND CRIS FIRED OUR REMAINING FLARES ALL AROUND IT.  THERE WAS NO RESPONSE.  WE WERE DEPRESSED AND KNEW WE HAD TO HAVE A
BIG FIRE.  THE PLANE NOT SEEING THE
FLARES HAD TAKEN SOME OF THE SPIRIT OUT OF US.
WE NOW
KNOW THAT THE FLARES WERE NEVER SEEN BY ANY OF THE CREW AND IN BRIGHT DAYLIGHT
CONDITIONS THEY ARE RARELY SEEN.
THE
PLANE WAS NOW COMING BACK FROM WEST TO EAST UP THE VALLEY.  CHRIS WAS SHOUTING FOR EVERYONE TO COLLECT
THE LICHEN AND PILE IT WITH OTHER DRY STICKS UNDER A DRY, HAIR COVERED SPRUCE
HE HAD PICKED.  THERE DIDN’T SEEM TO BE
ENOUGH TIME.  I HAD BECOME USELESS TO
THEM AS MY GOOD EYE WAS MOSTLY CLOSED FROM INSECT BITES, BUT CHRIS CONTINUED
WITH HIS MISSION.
THE BUFFALO HAD TURNED AT THE END OF THE
VALLEY AND WAS NOW HEADING BACK TOWARD US.
THE SUN WAS BEHIND IT AND WE COULDN’T SEE IT.  CHRIS HELD DOWN THE LOWER BRANCHES OF THE
TREE WITH HIS ARMS; BENNO STUFFED ALL THE FIRE LIGHTING FUEL INTO THE BRANCHES
AND LIT IT UP.  THE TREE WENT UP LIKE A
ROMAN CANDLE FIREWORK.  WE THOUGHT WE
WOULD HAVE TO RUN TO THE RIVER IN CASE THE REST OF THE FOREST WENT UP TOO.
WE
STOPPED FOR A MOMENT TO WAVE OUR ARMS AT THE BUFFALO.  I WAS ALMOST CERTAIN HE HAD TURNED HIS
LANDING LIGHTS ON AND OFF BUT THE PLANE CONTINUED OUT WEST OF THE VALLEY.
THIS
LIFTED OUR SPIRITS.  WE WANTED TO BELIEVE
WE HAD BEEN SPOTTED. CHRIS WASN’T SO SURE AND DECIDED WE SHOULD SET SOME MORE
TREES ON FIRE TO MAKE SURE WE GOT THEIR ATTENTION.
IT
SEEMED LIKE THE LONGEST TIME BUT WE COULD HEAR THE PLANE COMING FROM THE EAST AGAIN.  IT WAS VERY LOW.  IT’S UNDERCARRIAGE WAS DOWN AND THE PILOT WAS
TURNING HIS LANDING LIGHTS ON AND OFF.
THEY DROPPED A SMOKE FLARE AND WINDDRIFT STREAMERS.
WE HAD
BEEN SPOTTED.  WE HUGGED EACH OTHER AND
EMOTIONS RAN HIGH.
THE BUFFALO CONTINUED DESCENDING AND
WITHIN A SHORT TIME WE COULD HEAR THE LABRADOR RESCUE CHOPPER COMING.  THEY HAD A A TOUGH TIME FINDING A SAFE SPOT
TO HOVER.  THE PILOT EVENTUALLY FOUND A
SMALL GRASSY AREA BY THE RIVER WHERE HE HELD THE AIRCRAFT IN A HOVER SITUATION
30 FEET ABOVE THE RIVER WITH HIS BLADES MISSING THE TREES FOR AT LEAST
TWENTY-FIVE MINUTES.
WE
STARTED MAKING OUR WAY TOWARDS THE CHOPPER, CHRIS REALIZED THAT I HAS HAVING
TROUBLE SEEING WHERE I WAS GOING SO HE AND A SEARCH AND RESCUE SERGEANT CAME
BACK UP THE HILL TO HELP ME TO THE CHOPPER.
THEY WINCHED US UP INTO THE HELICOPTER, GAVE US A HUG AND TOLD US IT WAS
AS EXCITING FOR THEM TO HAVE SURVIVORS AS IT WAS FOR US TO BE RESCUED.
THEY
TOOK US TO BLUE RIVER WHERE WE WERE TRANSFERRED TO A BUFFALO PLANE AND FLOWN TO KAMLOOPS HOSPITAL.
AT BLUE RIVER, ONE OF THE EMPLOYEES AT
NORTHERN AIR ASKED ME IF I WOULD BE BUYING A LOTTO TICKET AS WE WERE SO
LUCKY.  MY REPLY TO HIM WAS NO, AS WE HAD
JUST WON THE LOTTERY!
* * * * * * * * * * *
IN SUMMARY, SAAR HAD SEEN THE WRECKAGE ON THEIR WEST-EAST PASS UP THE VALLEY AND HAD WRITTEN
IN THEIR LOG, “PLANE BURNED; MOST PROBABLY THREE CRISPIES IN IT.”  IF THEY HADN’T SEEN THE FIRE AND SMOKE THEY
WERE GOING TO SEND A JUMPER IN TO CONFIRM IT.
ON
MONDAY 25 TH , WHILE TALKING TO THE TRANSPORT SAFETY BOARD, I WAS TOLD
THEY HAD CO-ORDINATES FOR THE CRASH SITE FROM THE ELT.  A LADY PILOT ON A COMMERCIAL FLIGHT HAD
CAUGHT THE SIGNAL FOR THE THREE MINUTES THAT IT RAN, BEFORE BURNING UP  (THIS COULD OR COULD NOT BE TRUE.)
THE
SEARCH AND RESCUE CREWS ON THE AIRPLANE WERE PROFESSIONAL IN THEIR JOBS BUT
SHOWED FEELING TOWARD THE SURVIVORS.  WE
CAN ONLY OFFER THEM PRAISE FOR THEIR EFFORTS.
THE
REASON FOR TELLING THIS STORY IS TO INFORM ALL THOSE INTERESTED IN THE TRUTH
AND HOPEFULLY IT WILL STICK IN THE MINDS OF ANY PILOT OR CREW WHO IS TEMPTED
INTO SIMILAR SITUATIONS.  IF IT STOPS ONE
OF YOU FROM MAKING THE MISTAKES THAT I MADE THEN THIS HAS BEEN WORTHWILE.
1
ELT stands for
Emergency
Locator Transmitter .
Mogas
Transport Canada
has approved the use of automotive gasoline (mogas) in specific categories of
aircraft, subject to certain limitations.
Every pilot who contemplates the use of mogas should read Transport Canada’s
Use
of Automotive Gasoline (MOGAS ) in Aviation .
There are three considerations regarding
mogas: the use of mogas is not generally supported by engine manufacturers;
mogas is not engineered for aviation purposes; and, in using mogas, the pilot
assumes sole responsibility for quality (and therefore liability) associated
with its use.
Transport Canada basically followed the process
of formal approval established by the US FAA which issued
Supplementary Type
Certificates
(STCs) for
specific engines and aircraft; while these were recognized by Transport Canada,
it imposed altitude and temperature restrictions in view of the unique
characteristics of Canadian mogas—i.e., Canadian Aircraft were restricted to
flight below 6000’, and at temperatures below 24°C.  This restriction, however,
has since been removed for certain category aircraft.  As well, for aircraft categories, Transport Canada
now provides blanket approval, meaning that STCs are not required for these
aircraft.
Operational Considerations
1.
Material
Compatibility .  Transport Canada
warns that mogas may be associated with the deterioration of rubbers and
plastics in aircraft fuel systems.
2.
Alcohol .  Fuels containing alcohol (methanol or ethanol) other than de-icing fluids are not permitted for aircraft use,
owing to the manner in which alcohol attacks rubber and plastic components in
the fuel systems.  Importantly, fuel
manufacturers need not indicate when alcohol is present in automobile
fuel.  Manual alcohol testing procedures undertaken by the
pilot must therefore be used.  As a means
of monitoring elastomers (natural or synthetic rubbers or plastics), Transport
Canada additionally recommends frequent inspection of the o-rings found in fuel
sump drains—the pilot should look for o-ring blockage when the drains are open,
and o-ring leakage when the drains are closed.
As well, the fuel filter should be checked frequently for particulate
originating from deteriorated elastomers.
3.
Carburettor Icing .  Because mogas has higher volatility than aviation fuels, mogas absorbs more heat
during air/fuel mixture process and is therefore subject to greater cooling
during vaporization—the result being that ice accumulates at higher ambient
temperatures, making the likelihood of carburettor icing higher while flying
with mogas.
4.
Vapour Lock .  Again, because of the
increased volatility of mogas, there is increased probability of experiencing
vapour lock whereby mogas vaporises in fuel lines.  This is especially common in instances of
shutting down aircraft immediately after running at full operating
temperatures; the fuel in the lines adjacent to the engine become “heat soaked”
and vaporization occurred.  Full fuel
flow should be verified prior to takeoff and effort to reduce engine
temperature by reducing throttle should be used if vapour lock is encountered
in flight.  Automotive fuel varies in
volatility owing to the four seasonal grades that are produced (Aviation fuel
has only one volatility grade), and special consideration should be given to
avoiding winter grade fuels which have increased volatility, and therefore
increased risk of vapour lock, as well as carburettor icing.
5.
Filtering .  Transport Canada
recommends that all mogas be filtered using a 5-micron filter/separator,
or finer; the filter should also have a “go/no-go” system, which responds to
the presence of water contamination by shutting off.  Makeshift filters, such as a chamois or felt material, should only be used in
emergencies, owing to the possibility of fibres clogging the fuel system.
6.
Cross-contamination .  Unlike aviation fuel, mogas is not
transferred using dedicated fuel lines; there is therefore increased risk of
fuel cross-contamination whereby two fuels are mixed.
Transport Canada recommends that mogas vendors perform fuel-testing procedures
referred to as the “Clear and Bright”, “Free Water,” and “Density” tests.
7.
Electrostatic
Discharge .  Transport Canada
recommends that the fuel storage container should be bonded by wire to the tank
being fuelled.  It notes that the hazard
of fire increases substantially with the use of plastic containers, which
cannot be bonded to the aircraft.
Transport Canada writes: “ Many accident
reports have revealed that an arc was created when the [plastic jerry] can was
pulled away at the end of the pour following sufficient charge
accumulation.  By this time the tanks are
likely full and the results can be lethal .”
Mogas Requirements
Of the aircraft receiving blanket mogas approval, the most common is
the Cessna 150 using a Continental O-200 engine; aircraft not in this category
(so called “Category 4”) require an engine and airframe STC.
To qualify, the aircraft must be approved for operating 80/87 fuel.
With all aircraft using mogas, the engine log
must
contain a complete record of all hours on mogas, including a record of fuel
mixtures (avgas and mogas); the aircraft
Journey Log
shall
be annotated “Mogas may be used based on the acceptance of TP 10737”.  Placards
should
be installed at
each fuel filler and in the cockpit; the flight envelope (temperature and
altitude)
should
also be placarded.
Further Reading:
Transport Canada's
The Hazard of Aircraft Refuelling with Plastic "Jerrycans"
Transport Canada's
Mogas
Emergency Locator Transmitter
The
ELT
is a battery-powered transmitter
that will detect automatically any unusual deceleration force such as that
associated with a crash and subsequently transmit a distress signal on the frequency
121.5 MHz.  If properly maintained, the
ELT is designed to have sufficient power to transmit the signal (which is a
wailing sound similar to a siren) for 48 hours at -20°C.  An ELT signal is detected by the
COSPAS-SARSAT satellite systems that are capable of detecting a signal within 90
minutes.  As well, high altitude
commercial and military aircraft normally monitor 121.5 MHz and can typically
detect the signal within 100 miles of crash site.  All aircraft should monitor 121.5 MHz when
able, especially in sparsely settled areas.
An ELT signal announces your distress and
enables the satellite systems to determine your approximate position.  Search and Rescue systems are then alerted
and use the ELT signal to home in on your location rapidly.
On every flight, ensure the ELT is armed (if practical), and ensure every passenger is aware of the
ELT location and operation.  ELT
information should be displayed in the aircraft.  After landing, check 121.5 MHz to ensure that
your ELT has not been inadvertently activated.
In the event of an emergency you should of
course, while airborne, transmit “Mayday,” squawk 7700 on the transponder, and
broadcast your position.  After the crash
or forced landing, place the ELT function switch to “ON” immediately.  Once the ELT is turned on, do not switch it
off until you have been rescued.
Satellites and rescue aircraft need a continuous transmission to locate
the aircraft and home to its position.
An ELT signal can be improved by, if
possible, removing the ELT from the aircraft and setting it vertically on the
highest nearby point, ensuring that it remains connected to its antenna. 1   Always stay with the aircraft
and set up a survival camp, and prepare signal fires or
some other means of attracting the attention of search aircraft. 2
In the event that no emergency exists—e.g.,
you have conducted a precautionary landing to wait out bad weather—make
attempts to contact overflying aircraft or Air Traffic Services.  If not successful, switch on the ELT one-hour
after the expiry of your flight plan or itinerary, as this is when the search
for an overdue aircraft will begin.  The
ELT transmission in such cases will lesson the costs of the search and upon
arrival of the search aircraft you can contact them via radio and advise of
your intentions.
An ELT is only as good as the
batteries.  The replacement of batteries must be in accordance with the manufacturer’s
instructions.  ELTs should only be tested
in the first five minutes of every hour.
To avoid false alarms, always switch “OFF”
the ELT whenever it is removed from the aircraft.  Disconnect the batteries if the ELT is being
shipped.  In the event of an inadvertent
broadcast, advise Air Traffic Services that there is no emergency.
1
Raising the ELT 8 feet will increase its range by 20 to 40%.  Additionally, by placing the transmitter on a
piece of metal such as the aircraft wing will provide reflectivity and will
extend transmission range.
2
If you land in an uninhabited area, the best course of action is to
stay with the aircraft and the ELT.  The
idea here is that the aircraft is far easier to see than people are.  Make all efforts to make yourself visible
from the air—i.e., have smoke, flares, signal fires, etc., ready to attack
attention.
Medical Factors
Hypoxia —lack of oxygen in the body—the most important thing to remember is that the victim of hypoxia
is not aware of his or her condition; the effects are progressive with
altitude: lassitude and indifference,
belligerence or euphoria,
including loss of aircraft control, reduced vision, confusion, inability to
concentrate, impaired judgement, slowed reflexes, and eventual loss of
consciousness.  Symptoms typically appear
at 14000’, including the potential loss of aircraft control at 16000’, and
unconsciousness at 18000’.  Nevertheless, at 10000’ there is a definite
but undetectable hypoxia.  Prevention:
fly above 10000’ for duration of less than 30 minutes, or wear oxygen.  At night, hypoxia can impair vision at 5000’,
so it is recommended that oxygen be worn at night above this altitude.
Carbon Monoxide Poisoning —susceptibility increases with altitude; symptoms: sluggishness and
warmness, intense headache, throbbing temples, ringing in ears, dizziness,
dimming of vision, vomiting, and eventual death.  If symptoms are noticed, turn off the heat
and open a vent.
Decompression Sickness —the build-up of nitrogen bubbles in different parts of the body
when they come out of solution as a result of a rapid pressure decrease.  The risk is greatest in flight operations
above 20000’.  The formation of bubbles
in the lungs or the brain could give rise to chest pain and/or collapse.  If symptoms include dull, sickening pain, an
immediate descent to lower altitude is required.
Vertigo —spatial disorientation—loss
of bearings or confusion of sense of position and movement that occurs with
reduced visual reference (clouds, fog, snow, etc.).
Drugs —do not fly for 8 hours after consuming alcohol, 24 hours after
taking antihistamines, 48 hours after taking sulpha drugs, 4 weeks after taking
tranquillisers.
Anaesthetics —after spinal or general anaesthetics, do
not fly until your doctor says it is safe; while it is difficult to generalize
about local anaesthetics, common sense requires waiting 24 hours before flying.
Blood Donation —Donation of blood disturbs body circulation for several days, which
may impair flying; for this reason, active pilots should avoid blood donation;
if blood has been donated, a pilot should not fly for 48 hours.
Insurance
With respect to passenger liability, both
commercial and private aircraft must have a minimum $300,000 per passenger;
with respect to public liability, private aircraft must have a minimum of
$100,000 while commercial aircraft must have a minimum of $1,000,000. 1
While written proof of insurance must be carried on board private aircraft, the registration of
commercial aircraft is contingent on insurance coverage and therefore written
proof is not required.
1
CAR
606.02.
Marshalling Signals
The use of marshalling signals is typically encountered at larger or busier
airports where ground crew oversee and coordinate the movement of aircraft on
airport aprons.  The use of signals, for
example, is common at
Fixed Based Operator  facilities, which are the commercial suppliers
of fuel and other aircraft and crew services at airports.  Marshallers normally position themselves
forward of the left wingtip, within view of the pilot, and they will use
illuminating lights at night.  Note that
the engines of multi-engine aircraft are numbered left to right (pilot’s
perspective), beginning on the outer engine on the aircraft’s left wing.
Booking Sheet
|
Contact Form
|
Address & Map
|
Standard Operating Procedures
|
Anonymous Safety Reporting
|
People & Places
© 2015 Langley Flying School, Inc.
The content of this website is protected by copyright and reproduction in whole or in part is only authorized with the written consent of David L. Parry, Chief Flying Instructor, Langley Flying School.
"Choose a job you love, and you will never have to work a day in your life."
Confucius