Operation Victoria: September 2011
Tuesday, 27 September 2011
Operation University.
Since arriving back at university, I've become quite the frugal shopper. I thought I'd create a post with some money saving tips for food shopping and cooking whilst at university. Or, actually, later in life. There's never any point spending more than you have to at any point in life... except on clothes... just maybe :)
1. Bulk cooking.
Tonight, for dinner, I made a chicken casserole in the slow cooker (crock pot). In there went three frozen chicken breasts, a handful of baby carrots, diced onion, sweetcorn and mixed peppers. Add a little salt, pepper and gravy granules. I added a dash of Soy Sauce for flavour but it's hardly necessary. Cook it all up in one session and dish it up on some plain rice.
You'll notice there is absolutely oodles of the stuff. I knew that I was bulk cooking and was still surprised with how much there was. So tonight, not only did I make a gorgeous dinner for right now but I have two portions of chicken casserole and rice to put in the freezer and enjoy when I can't be bothered cooking or get home from university late.
2. Buy Frozen!
If you don't have a freezer in your accommodation, beg, steal (don't) or borrow one. Freezers save so much money. For example, the casserole again:
5 frozen chicken breasts cost £2.87 whereas 5 fresh chicken breasts: £3.90.
1kg of frozen sweetcorn costs £1.48 whereas tinned sweetcorn would work out at £1.88 per kg.
1kg of frozen mixed peppers costs just £1.48 whereas ONE fresh pepper costs 68p.
1kg of frozen baby carrots costs £1.00. Fresh carrots are 80p/kg but you get three. Here you get a bag full.
1kg of frozen diced onions costs £1.50 whereas fresh diced onion costs £2.22 per kilogram.
Can you see a trend here people? That's an overall saving of over £4 for all the ingredients in the same quantity. That means that one portion of casserole, cooked from frozen ingredients, work out at less than 50p. That's a full, filling and healthy meal for less than 50p. You can't afford not to. If you're unlucky enough to live without a freezer and your landlord will allow your own electrical equipment, get a freezer for next to nothing (or even free!) from websites such as Freecycle or Craig's List.
3. Step Back and Compare.
Yesterday when I did my Asda shop online I wanted to buy Weetabix (or the cheaper version thereof). I noticed something quite interesting that I never had in the supermarket. 24 Wheat Bisks costs £1.00 whereas a pack of 48 costs £2.67. How can that be? Double the Weetabix, more than double the price? I think not. Buy two 24 packs if you want 48. Likewise, buy four 24 packs if you want 72. That works out even cheaper still. It's a little less practical to store but who really cares? Think of the money you're saving. That and you can play a rubbish version of Tetris whilst trying to get your 4 boxes of cereal into the cupboard. :)
4. Shed the Stigma.
There is nothing wrong with Smart Price / Basics / Tesco Value. Absolutely nothing. Don't be a food snob - for goodness sake, you're at university, you can't afford to be. Do you want to leave uni with a little bit of money saved up or do you want to waste £2 every time you buy branded Weetabix instead of Wheat Bisks? They're the same damn thing in a different packet. An uncle of mine worked in a biscuit factory. Every day he would package the exactly same biscuits into various different packages for all sorts of different brands. They were the same biscuits, all marketed at different prices for different companies. Even if you only save £2 every week that you swap products from branded to Smart Price you'll have saved over £100 per year. £100. What could you spend that on that you're wasting on a slightly more upmarket brand of beans? A bean is a bean no matter how you package it.
5. Price Comparison.
Take advantage of price comparison promotions, especially the Asda Price Guarantee. If your Asda shop isn't a full 10% cheaper than another leading supermarket, they'll give you a voucher back for the difference. Before now, we've had a £4 voucher from Asda to spend in store because their shop wasn't 10% cheaper. Even if Asda ARE cheaper but aren't a full 10% they'll still give you a voucher. What does it hurt? You either get a cheaper shop or a cheap shop and a voucher. Try it.
One more cheeky tip whilst we're at it: group together. Asda require a £25 shop to qualify for delivery. Don't think you'll spend that on your own? Don't have an Asda in your area? Get a group together. All do your shopping, split the delivery cost and you'll get the cheapest shop possible delivered to your door. Either that or do a fortnight's shopping at once. £25 is £12.50 a week. Think of how much more you'll spend when that nice bag of Cadbury's Buttons catches your eye on the way to the till. Online shopping solves that problem. No more overspending.
1 comment:
Operation Memory.
Courtesy of Gabrielle Blair at
Design Mom
for the inspiration behind this post. Please watch the video to put my post into context. :)
Gabrielle asks: 'If you closed your eyes right now and thought of your favourite memory,
what would it be?' I thought for a while and found that I couldn't pick just one.
My favourite memories are:
1. Of being at Coco's diner in Palm Springs with my parents in 2010 and eating the most delicious meal I've had in America.
2. Of collecting Gary at the train station in Aberystwyth after he took at 6 hour train journey to see me at university.
3. Of walking down Palm Canyon Drive in Palm Springs and looking at the Thursday night markets at twilight.
4. (An odd one here) Of the night I went to hospital with anaphylaxis and Gary told the nurse that he was my boyfriend even when he wasn't. (How sad!)
5. Of walking a very drunk Chris Matthew and Francis Osborn home from their night out - both of whom were in drag and kept kissing me on the cheek for finding a mobile phone that was never even lost!
6. Of my Dad pulling up on the front of our house with an 8 week old
Maisey
in the back of his car. :)
7. Of walking around Borsdane Woods with Chris Holding as a child and throwing leaves into the river.
8. Of the night I spent at Chris Matthew's house playing GoldenAxe III and camping in the living room with too much Pimms and late night television.
9. Of the CF night out around Aberystwyth in 2009.
10. Of living with Cara Urwin in my first year of university - more specifically when she came to my door dressed as Santa and sang 'Thanks For The Memories' at me as a farewell when I moved out. :)
Writing this post has filled my stomach with the warmest, happiest feeling. I'm so lucky to have had such great times in my life. Try it! What's your favourite memory? Leave me a comment :)
No comments:
Sunday, 25 September 2011
Operation Moving Day
Well, that's it! I've moved in! My room is lovely. (Pictures will follow when I can take some decent ones).
This is the beautiful house I will be living in until June. (Image courtesy of Google Maps Street View).
This four (double) bedroom mansion is rather beautiful. I have more storage space than I actually know what to do with. Nine drawers, three wardrobes and two double cupboards. I am actually using four of the drawers and a half of a wardrobe. My bedroom is at the back of the house and my view is of the back garden. Today I was sat at the computer and saw a pair of
Red Kites
flying above the garden. They came so close to the window and they were so beautiful.
Just to re-cap the living arrangement, I'm lodging in a room of this house with the couple who own it and one other lodger. She came to introduce herself and she's quite nice. Hopefully she appreciates the quiet too. I have a little story about her as an introduction:
She moved into her room here yesterday and went to the bathroom last night only to find that she'd locked herself in by accident. The lock was stuck and she couldn't get out. So she shouted for help and hammered on the door and walls. Nothing. The landlady and her husband, both deaf, were just on the other side of the wall but couldn't hear her shouts. She hammered, shook the door, shouted and still nothing. She wrote a note asking for help, in lipstick on toilet paper, and put it under the door. Still no one came. Eventually, at 2am, the landlady heard something vague and came to investigate. She found out what had happened. (By this time, the girl had made a bed in the bath for the night). Her husband got the ladders and put them up to the bathroom window and eventually, three hours later, the girl was freed from her bathroom prison. What bad luck is that? Getting stuck and shouting for help from deaf people.
Anyway, tonight I am going round to a friend's for a cup of tea. Living the high life and all that, hey? :)
No comments:
Saturday, 24 September 2011
Operation Lampeter
Well, I'm packed. Tomorrow morning I will be up at 8am and setting off at 9am on the 4 hour, 151 mile drive to my new lodgings in Lampeter, Ceredigion. The above picture is the building I lived in last year. It's absolutely lovely from the outside and, unfortunately, a hell hole on the inside. Anyway, I've discussed my living arrangements for this year on previous posts and so hopefully I'm moving onwards and upwards.
I have a really weird mixture of emotions at the moment. I'm excited to start the work and finish my degree next June, graduating next July. I'm quite anxious but hopeful about my new house and the situation I'll be living in. I'm dreading the drive and being so far away from home. I'll be going home every third weekend regardless of what else is happening in the world so I'm going to approach this year with a positive attitude. I know why I'm here even if I don't want to be. I'm here to finish my degree, to open the door with my grades for my next course at Huddersfield (hopefully) and to make mine and my man's future brighter. It's a temporary melancholy in the grand scale of life. Of course when you're so sad about the circumstance it's hard to see the bigger picture or see the benefit of living in misery but it's all temporary. This too will pass.
So I'm going to try harder, work for longer, complain less and try to make the most of my last year in an adorable but annoying (in equal parts) village. Good luck to everyone else returning to university at the moment. :)
The main street in Lampeter. As you can see, there's absolutely naff all there.
No comments:
Thursday, 22 September 2011
Operation Vertigo.
I got sent home from work today for being a liability. In fairness, I am. I got taken to A&E yesterday and diagnosed with vertigo.
Vertigo
is horrible and I feel completely debilitated. I can't even sit in work and cut things out for the children because I can't move my head up and down without it getting worse. I feel like I'm spinning even when I'm sat still - hence the lovely picture of the Whirling Dervishes. I'm meant to be moving to South Wales again on Sunday.... that should be fun.
No comments:
Sunday, 18 September 2011
Operation Packed Lunch
Trying to be healthier. Failing to be adventurous.
No comments:
Operation Huddersfield
Dear all,
Sorry I haven't been online much of late.
This week has been the busiest I can remember in a long while. I started
my work placement last Monday in the reception class of my old primary
school and I absolutely adored it. I know for sure that Early Years
teaching is what I want to do. The children were wonderful and it's
actually quite interesting what you can learn about a child's home life
from what you see of them in a school environment. It seems I instantly
knew which children were from older parents, younger parents, planned,
unplanned and unwelcome despite the fact that all of them were wearing
an identical school uniform. I adore watching the way the childrens'
minds work and how they latch on to certain ideals. The only part of the
whole experience I haven't liked so far is the way I'm treated by the
class teacher. She's nice to me - friendly enough - but I constantly
felt belittled. All she'd allow me to do was the dog work she didn't want to. When she wasn't there, when she was late or hadn't bothered to set up, I was fully suitable to fill in for her and teach the children but as soon as it suited her I was back to photocopying and making wall displays. I worked within administration for a few months before going to university so I certainly don't need any experience within the realm of photocopying. I'm not there to be a slave, I'm there to experience working as a teacher and although I know there are limitations because of my qualifications (or lack thereof) it doesn't mean that admin is all I'm suitable for. I had more enthusiasm, consideration, aptitude and forward planning than the teacher herself and she still treated me like a second class citizen. But none of that matters really - all that matters is that I enjoyed myself, the children were great to work with and I'll miss them dearly.
Next week I'll be in the nursery unit for the week. Not sure if I'm more excited or more nervous. I haven't heard a single nice thing about the nursery teacher from anyone who's worked that the school - past AND present. Apparently, she's very patronising and doesn't think anyone quite compares to her. That should be fun, huh?
This weekend, Gary and his sister moved into their new university house in Huddersfield so Saturday morning we got up at half past six, loaded up three cars with their things and drove up to Yorkshire. Strictly speaking, my car wasn't loaded... it just had Gary, myself and his Shar Pei and Chihuahua in it. Hardly crammed but lovely. His new house is quite nice for student digs. A two bed end terrace with the tiniest kitchen known to man:
The kitchen... all of it. There is no more to it.
But despite the kitchen the house is lovely. You can see his classroom from his bed and the rent is great given the location of the house so, all in all, it's a great situation. I'll leave you with a picture of the lovely fireplace in their living room. With a little work, it could be a great feature :)
No comments:
Monday, 12 September 2011
Operation First Day.
Today was my first day of work experience. I arrived at the school way too earlier and loitered for a while wondering what I'd got myself into. In actual fact, it was a wonderful day. I've learned that 4 year old children never stop, rarely listen but quite like you if you give them individual attention. I've learned that stickers promote obedience, girls can be bitches even at that age and boys of eighteen don't really change from when they were four. I'm now quite fond of children's television and love making collages by cutting up old catalogues. Snack time was whole raw carrots - I drew a line and went for my ham butty. All day, people kept mistaking me for the woman on the photograph I've attached. She's a headteacher at another local school. Not sure I see the resemblance myself but there we go. All in all, a wonderful day.
1 comment:
Sunday, 11 September 2011
Operation Catch-up.
I feel like I'm so behind on my blog reading. I've been away for the weekend and I absolutely wouldn't have traded last weekend for anything but I've come home and don't really know where I'm up to with the people I follow. I adore the blogging community. I feel like I genuinely know the people that own the blogs I read. I know their lives, their families, their passions and their hard times. They inspire me, amuse me and occasionally make me jealous. It almost feels as if there isn't a line between my real life and that of those on Blogger. I quite like it, if I'm honest. Nothing wrong with a little inspiration.
The issue now is that I don't have time to catch-up for a little while. I'm starting work experience in an infant school tomorrow at 8.45am and will be starting at that time and finishing around 4pm for the next fortnight. I can see a little blog neglect coming on here. I'll try to keep up with things the best I can.
No comments:
Operation Weekend
Our weekend in photographs.
Giving Maisey a pep talk.
Damn, we're sexy.
My normal face.
The mister and I.
The traffic. Typical for a Friday night.
A smiling goat. How wonderful.
This is Tank. He is a hawk and a very pretty one at that.
The mister and his bird... that isn't me.
What a lovely piggy. (That's Gary, poking her nose).
The church in the village.
My parents.
Gary and I made enchiladas again. Addicts much?
Little Summer.
I hope you all had a lovely weekend. :)
No comments:
Friday, 9 September 2011
Operation Chicken Pie
Here is a snippet of what we had for dinner last night. I made the meal for my partner and my parents and the pie crust was the nicest pastry I've ever made. I changed from my usual recipe to a recipe which thrives on keeping the pastry cold.
Ingredients:
155 g all-purpose flour
2 g salt
115 g butter, chilled and diced
60 ml ice water
It tasted great and everyone commented that the pastry was as good as shop bought. The tip is to keep the pastry as cold as possible - pop it in the freezer when you aren't using it.
The filling for my chicken pie was based on a recipe from Chef in Training called
Crock Pot Italian Chicken . It was really delicious and really easy to make so I recommend you give it a try. I added a chopped carrot, a handful of sweetcorn and a handful of chopped button mushrooms to give more weight to the filling for when the chicken fell apart during cooking.
The Chef in Training Italian Chicken recipe in the slow cooker with added vegetables.
The finished chicken pie complete with wonderful, thin and flaky butter pastry.
It didn't turn out of the plate very well but that's down to my own impatience.
For dessert, I made a trifle with a difference. The bottom was a cheap strawberry jelly with a few left over strawberries chopped up and included. Instead of making the jelly with water, I topped it up with cold lemonade. It adds a nice tang to the jelly and you can feel the fizz of the lemonade whilst you're eating.
Lemonade jelly with added strawberries.
Jelly with added custard. It was finally finished off with strawberry fromage frais.
No comments:
Wednesday, 7 September 2011
Operation Mish Mash.
Tonight, my Dad made a Spaghetti Bolognaise for dinner and although it's lovely I just didn't feel like it. So I whipped up some of the base for my aforementioned
Garlic Bread
base and made what can only be described as a mish mash. It was somewhat a mixture between a pie and a taco, minus the lettuce. The outside was the garlic bread base with a little extra salt and pepper and the inside was mince beef in Bolognaise sauce with a little grated cheese over the top. The aim was Calzone, the reality was what could be termed a Bolognaise pie. Despite the ambiguity, it was really nice and I'd definitely make it again.
In other news, my work experience placement has been arranged and confirmed for the fortnight beginning 12th September and my personal statement for my
GTTR
application has been checked thrice and is ready to go. My personal tutor at university has replied to my email and is more than happy to provide my academic reference and I have a wonderful secondary referee lined up. Things are going wonderfully. :)
Coming up soon: A snippet of tomorrow night's dinner - chicken pie and trifle with a twist!
No comments:
Tuesday, 6 September 2011
Operation Notice Board
After emailing my landlord, I discovered that I won't have a notice board in my room for the next academic year. I thought about buying one and looked on eBay but they all seemed so boring and quite expensive for what they were. I looked the shed and found a grotty old notice board from our old house. It was covered in grass clippings and looked a bit sorry for itself, as you can see:
The board before cleaning and re-covering.
It was good enough considering it was free so I wiped it down with some kitchen cleaner. It was then that I realised I had some fat quarters of material in my bedroom that I'd never gotten round to finishing sewing so I decided to re-cover the notice board in a far friendlier material.
Close up of the original board and the material fat quarter.
The pattern of the material.
Using some super glue and a Pritt Stick (probably would have been better using a glue gun but you know me... never do things the easy way) I started to stick the material down to the original background and tuck the edges of the material underneath the frame all the way around.
Tucking the edges of the material underneath the board's frame.
The material didn't quite reach the end of the board.
It ended up that the material didn't fully cover the board and I really didn't want to piece it together and have a big join running down the middle of the board so I decided to create a chalkboard on half of the notice board. I went to the local independently-owned DIY shop and found a thin piece of board and some chalkboard paint. When I went to pay, the owner didn't charge me for the board because it was just a scrap off-cut from something he was making. Bargain. So I got home, cut the board down to size and gave it a couple of thin coats of the paint. Whilst waiting for that to dry, I figured that I'd need something to keep the chalk in so I covered an old jelly pot with some left over material from the board.
Jelly cup covered in left over material.
When the board was completely dry, I used a hot glue gun (yes, I actually found one!) to glue the chalkboard to the edge of the noticeboard that the material didn't reach. I then glued the back of the jelly cup and stuck it to the bottom of the chalkboard. I decided not to repaint the frame because I love the original colour and it goes with the material really well. It looks amazing and cost no more than the cost of a tin of chalkboard paint - £4 and I used barely any so the tin will last for years. Absolute bargain. :)
The finished product. :)
PS. If I've linked to your party, your button will be on the Link Party page to the right. Thank you for having me. :)
6 comments:
Operation Packing.
I decided to start packing today for my departure to university on Sunday the 25th. This is my progress. Two full boxes containing everything I could ever possibly want or need during the next academic year. If you can name it, I'll probably have two of it in this box. Except maybe toilet seats and ironing boards. However, there is a washing basket, an entire set of bedding, a box of ice pops, oodles of food, more Tupperware than I'll be able to use, three bottles of Original Source shower gel (which I adore) and the nicest air freshener I've ever bought from Makro. The only things that I'm left to pack are pillows, clothing, towels and my computer which will hopefully fit in one more bag and a box. Please bear in mind that my car is this big:
It's going to be like a giant game of Tetris.
No comments:
Sunday, 4 September 2011
Operation Saturday
I normally don't blog on weekends because I don't tend to have a lot of time on the internet but this weekend I thought I'd take a couple of photos to share on here. Gary and I were invited to a dinner party hosted by his best friend Scully and Scully's girlfriend Hannah. They're such a wonderful couple and great people so we had such a lovely time.
This is Gary drinking his tankard of Pepsi. Doesn't do things by half, my man.
The wonderfully arranged salad.
The enchiladas before the cheese and the oven.
Not the most appetising of pictures but the enchiladas were gorgeous. We'd never had them before but I'm pretty sure they'll become a regular for us. I just hope we can make them as nicely as Hannah and Scully did!
Hannah and I respectively playing GoldenAxe III on the Xbox whilst eating toffee pudding. I love that I've finally found someone who shares my love of these games. Not even Gary will play them with me.
We had a truly lovely time this weekend. Apologies for the quality of the pictures - that's what a Blackberry does for you. I don't think I'll be getting another one when it comes time to renew my contract. Hope you've all had a great weekend too. :)
No comments:
Thursday, 1 September 2011
Operation Budget
So, it's that time of year again.The time of year where I get my student loan but it doesn't stretch far enough. The time of year where they give you less than it actually costs you in rent and then land you in £20,000 of debt three years later.
Anyway, moving on. I'm moving in, as a tenant, into the home of one of my university's librarians and I've got a fantastic deal on my rent. (Perhaps I shouldn't jinx things but I'm sure she can't go back on it now). They seem to be a lovely couple and they're both deaf. As harsh as this sounds, that's fantastic for me because noise does my head in. I want to live somewhere silent and because my landlords can't hear they use BSL to communicate and subtitles on the TV. It's an absolute dream, noise wise. For £70 per week, I get a double bedroom at the back of the house overlooking the garden and fields with built-in wardrobes, a bathroom either to myself or shared with one other tenant, Sky TV in my bedroom (TV provided), wireless internet, use of the kitchen and washing machine and a driveway to park my car in. Absolute bargain compared to the fact that I was paying £77 a week to live on campus in a single room sharing a bathroom with 7 other disgusting people and having a kitchen that was too filthy to use no matter how often I cleaned it. So, all in all, I'm quite looking forward to moving in there... Well, as excited as I can be when I'm dreading the whole year as it is. The only issue is that this year my rent is paid monthly whereas previous years allowed me to pay the whole thing off in one lump sum. I'm paying it all myself too so it's going to take some serious budgetting to be able to save a little money for my postgraduate degree tuition fees, afford my car insurance AND pay rent monthly myself.
I knocked up a week by week budget on a table in Microsoft Word and plan to pin it to my wall when I move in. I also found these fantastic monthly budget sheets on
Sissyprint . They have some AMAZING printables for absolutely free so I really recommend you have a look. They have everything from budgets to cards and little messages to stick on packed lunches. So adorable. Anyway, I printed off their monthly budgets and filled one in for all the months I'll be living at university as of October. They have a section for everything and a section for you to write down what you actually spent in comparison to the amount you should have. That should be interesting, right? :P They're a really handy size and I'm in love with my new download. If you want to print them yourselves, pay
Sissyprint
a visit and have a scroll through their blog. You might find something else you like as well. :)
No comments:
Operation Steak Pie.
Today's recipe takes a while to make but is well worth it in the end. It is a relatively simple recipe that tastes great and, again, has a minimal amount of ingredients so is good on the wallet too.
Ingredients for the puff pastry:
250g of plain flour.
250g of room temperature butter.
1 tsp of salt.
75ml of cold water.
1. Add the sifted flour, salt and the butter to your mixing bowl and loosely rub together.
2. Create a well in the middle of your mixture and add two thirds of the water. (Add more as necessary). Kneed until you have a dough consistency. It shouldn't be too sticky but if it is then add a little more flour and kneed it in.
3. Turn out onto a floured board, kneed until you're happy with the dough and then wrap in cling-film (or a plastic bag since I ran out) and leave in the fridge until you're ready to roll it out.
And now for the best bit... The filling. :)
Ingredients:
As much steak as you like providing it will fit!
500ml of beef stock.
1 tbsp of Soy sauce.
2 tbsp of tomato puree.
1 tsp of your preferred mustard.
1 onion (and any other small veg you like in your pies).
1. Put the beef, beef stock, onions (and mushrooms in my case) into the slow cooker on high and cover for around 3 hours. Check that after this time the beef is tender and cooked.
2. Add the mustard and the tomato puree.
3. Mix 2 tbsp of flour with water to form a paste and mix into the beef mixture. Stir the mixture until it boils and thickens.
You know the rest. Grease and line your pie dish with pastry, add the filling and
put a crust on the top. Brush the top crust of the pie and the outer rim of the bottom crust with either a
milk or egg wash and bake until the pastry goes golden brown. For me, that was in a Gas Mark 6 oven for 25 minutes.
And I stuck together the left over pastry from the pie and made a jam tart. Waste not, want not. :)
3 comments:
Newer Posts
Older Posts
Home
Subscribe to:
Posts (Atom)
Blog Archive
Blog Archive
March 2012 (7)
February 2012 (13)
January 2012 (14)
December 2011 (8)
November 2011 (11)
October 2011 (10)
September 2011 (17)
August 2011 (8)
(c) Operation Victoria.. Travel template. Powered by
Blogger .