Brian Boru - The Chieftain Clan O'Flaithbheartaigh
Kings and Queens of Connemara
{english variants:O'Flaherty, Lafferty}
The Chieftain Clan O'Flaithbheartaigh
Kings and Queens of Connemara
{english variants:O'Flaherty, Lafferty}
Blog
Photo Gallery
Videos
Origin of Celts
Name History
Family Tree
Brian Boru
Connemara's Pirate Queen
Succession of the Kings
Native American Ancestors
Members
Guestbook
The History of Brian Boru, the last High King of Ireland
A reproduction of a Celtic island village, a style still used in the 16th century.
Craggaunowen Crannog, County Clare.
Ireland experienced many invasions and migrations
down through the ages, as we have discussed in
previous articles. Each of them were identified in a
racial context, and each contributed to the
technological and cultural evolution of the Irish
people, while each group, in their turn, were
assimilated into what we have come to think of as
the Celtic Race, although the Celts were merely one
more of the races who became the Irish.  And
yet, through all their history, the Irish had
remained insular, a tribal people, identifying with
an extended family rather than with a geographical
territory.  Their world seldom extended beyond
Ireland's shores, and most of them lived their
entire lives within a few miles of where they were
born, creating a sense of loyalty to family and
neighbors, rather than any sense of nationalism.
This was true until the Viking era, who were
themselves Celts, although with a very different
world view.
When the Norse arrived in Ireland, early in the 9th
Century, they had been making a living from conquest and
commerce for more than four hundred years.
They possessed a mobility and world view which made
them an integral part of, not only all of Europe,
but of Western Asia and North Africa as well.
No one had cut such a wide swath since the Roman
Empire.  The Vikings were well entrenched from
the courts of Byzantium to the Pillars of Hercules,
and from Sicily to Iceland, and beyond. Even so,
they were, first and foremost, adventurers,
raiders and merchants, opportunists who profited
from a good trade.
And so, even though the Vikings brought the concept
of urban living to Ireland, they created trading
centers, rather than defensible towns in the Roman
and European context.  When threatened, Vikings
usually took to their ships, where they were
supreme, while the Irish still relied on family and
alliances for their security.  The Irish viewed
Ireland in much the same context as Europeans viewed
Europe.  Neither the Vikings, nor the Irish,
had any concept of Irish nationalism. Their world
was divided into their clan and strangers, a term
the Irish still use today.
Following the defeat of Domhnuil Brecc, King of
Dalriada, at the battle of Mag Rath in 637, Irish
Dalriada, now separate from Scottish Dalriada, was
gradually weakened until the Dal n’Araide, the
former allies of Dalriada, were able to overrun the
kingdom in the 8 th
Century. However, it
is likely that most of the populace, including the
Irish contingent of
Cineal Cholla , survived.                                            Rock of Cashel, County Tipperary.                        'Caput' (Seat) of the 'Ard Righ' (High King) of 'muma' (Munster)    The U í
Neill had originally held the west
and center of Ireland, south of
"Ulaidh"
(Ulster). Ulster fell to them at an
early date, as discussed, and
Patrick’s seat at Armagh was always
linked to Tara and King L ó egaire,
who died in 462. But it was not
until the 9 th
Century
that one of their kings,
"Righ Ma é lsechlainn"
(King Malachy I) of
Cineal Cholm á in
(one of two major dynasties of the
southern U í
Neill) centered in
"Midi"
(Meath),
in about 845, following his conquest
of the Vikings under Tuirgeis and
taking advantage of the distractions
provided by the Viking incursion,
succeeded in taking hostages both
from
"Laigin"
(Leinster) and
from the ruling dynasty of
"Muma"
(Munster), allowing him to declare
himself
"ard righ"
(high king) of all of
Ireland.
(AKA
Brian
B ó riomhe ,
or Brian Boru)
The facts
concerning
Brian mac Cenn é idigh
(Kennedy), of
"An D á l
Cais"
(The
Dalcassians),
son of the chief
of
"Thuaidh
Muma"
(North
Munster -
Thomond) in what
is now eastern
County Clare,
are disputed;
but it is said
that he was born
c. 941, and that
he took the name
Brian Boru from
the town of
B ó riomhe ,
near Killaloe,
on the west bank
of the Shannon,
where he was
later to build
his
"caput." 																 His palace, 																 "Ceann Coradh" 																 (The Head of
the Weir -
Kincora) was
situated on the
summit of the
hill in the
center of the
present town of
Killaloe, where
the Catholic
Church now
stands. Thomond
was a tributary
kingdom of Muma,
most southern of
the five
"coicidh"
of Ireland.
Brian was the
youngest of
twelve brothers,
all of whom fell
in battle;
except
Marc á n ,
who became the de facto Bishop of Munster; and
Anl ú an ,
who died of an
illness.
Beal
B ó riomhe ,
Brian
mac Cenn éidigh's
Fort one
mile
north of
Killaloe,
Co.
Clare
Brian’s eldest brother
"Mathghamhain"
(Mahon) succeeded his
father as High King of Muma in 968. The elder Mahon had seized the
throne in 964, but was driven from Cashel and forced to accept a truce.
Brian refused to submit and retired instead into the wild country of
Slieve Aughty on the border of Connacht. He was almost constantly at war
with the Vikings of Luimneach and with the Coicidh of Laigin, who were
usually allied with the Vikings as a matter of expediency. Laigin was
the traditional enemy of the D á l
Cais. A legend grew around Brian’s name as he fought a bitter guerrilla
war, hiding in the wilderness, often with fewer than fifteen men. In
968, in alliance with the neighboring clans of
"Thuaidh Muma"
and
"De í se Muma"
(South Muma - Desmond), Brian crossed the Shannon and sacked the Norse
settlements in the south. They defeated Viking King Ivar of Luimneach
and his Irish allies, Donovan and
"Maolmordha"
(Molloy) of
Laigin, at Sologhead near Tipperary, causing them all to flee to Wales.
Brian’s brother Mahon was restored to the throne of Muma but, in 976,
Ivar returned with a great fleet and, having forced Mahon’s abdication,
had him put to death by Donovan and Molloy.
The Wood of
Beal B ó riomhe
Brian, thirty-five years of age, succeeded his brother as King of Muma
and quickly took vengeance on the assassins. With the help of the Gaelic
clans of Muma, he overran and burned the Norse settlements on the
islands in the Shannon at Luimneach. They then attacked the Viking army
and slaughtered Ivar and his sons who, as Christians, had taken refuge
in the monastery founded by St Senan early in the 6 th
Century
on Scattery Island. Donovan and Molloy were hunted down and killed and
Brian was crowned King of Muma at Cashel. Within three years he was the
undisputed ruler of the southern half of Ireland and had established his
seat at
"Ceann Coradh"
(Head of the Weir or River Crossing - Kincora, called the crossing place of the race of man, modern Killaloe, Co. Clare).                        Brian's palace of
"Ceann Coradh"
(Head of the Weir - Kincora) was located at the top of the hill immediately to the left of the bridge.
Killaloe,
Co. Clare
Overlooking
the
River
Shannon
at a
strategic
point.
In 980,
"Ma é lsechlainn
Mh ó r II"
(Malachy II, The Great) styled
himself Emperor of the Irish, after having won a victory over the Norse under
kings Sitric and Olaf Kvaran at the Battle of Tara the year before. Brian
disputed this presumption and, in 985, sailed an army up the Shannon to Lough
Ree, raided Meath and pillaged Connacht. After a considerable period of futile
conflict, a truce was negotiated and, for several years, they coexisted
amicably, with Malachy sole sovereign north of the
"Eiscir Riata"
and
Brian, king of the south. But in 998, the Danes of Dubhlinn allied themselves with
the Norse of Leinster under King Molloy (the younger) again and revolted.
Brian and Malachy
united their forces
"to the great joy of the Irish"
and, in the year of
the millennium, defeated the Danes
"with red slaughter"
at Glenm á ma,
on the slopes of the Wicklow Mountains near Dunlavin. Seven thousand Danes are
said to have fallen in the battle, and the remaining Danes of Dubhlinn were
isolated in the pass and virtually wiped out. King Molloy of Laigin was found
hiding in a yew tree. Brian’s Irish then marched to Dubhlinn, sacked it and
ravaged Laigin so that the province was ever after relegated to a spoiler’s
roll. Brian received the submission of the Viking King Sitric and then restored
Armagh, confirming its’ supremacy over the Irish church.
In 1002, Brian and
Malachy quarrelled again and Malachy, after Brian marched on Tara, was compelled
to resign his sovereignty to the superior force of Brian and to take the
inferior position of provincial king.
Brian
subsequently ruled a more or less united and peaceful Ireland for more than
twelve years and was inscribed in
"The Book of Armagh"
by his
secretary and counselor,
"Maelsuthain O Cearbhaill"
(Upstanding
Master
Ó Carroll), as
"Brian Imperator
Scottorum,"
(Brian, Emperor of The Irish).                             Scattery Island Monastery                                                                               Where King Ivar of Luimneach was killed by Brian
Boru   During his reign, Brian was able to
transcend the traditional independence of the clans, discourage
their incessant debilitating feuds, and to suppress the Vikings.
He enforced law and order with rigid and impartial justice;
built forts at strategic points, as well as roads, bridges and
churches; founded schools and encouraged learning. Notable
remaining examples are Cormac’s Chapel at Cashel, consecrated in
1134, and Clonfert Cathedral, Co. Galway, completed in 1164.
Brian dispatched agents abroad to buy books and during his reign
the bardic schools, as well as Irish art, experienced a revival.
They laid the basis for a prescriptive grammar of Irish, the
first such grammar of a western European language. Many of our
oldest sources today were created or copied during this era and
at least three of them remain. One was compiled in the great
monastery of Clonmacnoise c.1100; another probably at
Glendalough about the same time; and the third in the monastery
of Terryglass in Tipperary between 1150 and 1200. There are also
two remaining copies of the
"Book of Hymns,"
late 11 th
or early 12 th
Century manuscripts of more limited
scope but nevertheless contributing to our knowledge of the
period. Trade flourished and Brian’s palace at
"Ceann Coradh" 				 became the political center of Ireland. Vikings throughout
the Gaedhil acquired respect for Gaelic culture and political
institutions, changing the relationship.
Unfortunately, Brian Boru made no adequate arrangement for his
succession or for the continuity of the united Ireland he had
brought about. In fact, by taking the throne from Malachy, Brian
voided the druidic
"Brehon"
tradition of the hereditary
succession of the U í
Neill
to the high-kingship. 			 Boru, like the MacDonalds’ progenitor, Somhairle in
Alba, used the force of his strong arm and his
personal charisma to bring about peace and unity.
Neither hero possessed the political acumen to
immortalize their achievements. The Norse, the
Danes, the Normans and finally the English, were
successful in Ireland because they seldom faced a
united foe.
Romanesque Entrance To Clonfert
Cathedral One of the best remaining examples of the enlightenment engendered by Brian Boru.                                                        Clonfert Cathedral                                                Built in the era of
Brian Boru
The local kings and clan chiefs were
jealous of the authority of Kincora
and, as the king aged, they looked
for an opportunity to reestablish
their independence. Brian’s former
wife, Gormlaith, is said to have
taken advantage of the situation
presented and to have caused the
battle of Clontarf resulting in
Brian Boru’s death. She had been
married twice before and was
constantly plotting on behalf of
herself and her son Sitric, now King
of Dublin. Gormlaith precipitated a
quarrel between Brian’s eldest son 											 "Murchadh"
(Murrough) and her
brother Molloy, King of Laigin.
Molloy, visiting Kincora, interfered
in a game of chess which Murrough
was playing. Murrough responded by
taunting Molloy about his capture
when hiding in the yew tree. The
implication of cowardice was enough
to cause Molloy to revolt. He
returned to Laigin and allied
himself with the U í
Neill, Sitric and others, and
attacked and defeated Brian’s ally
Malachy. Malachy appealed to Brian
for help.
Upon hearing of Gormlaith’s latest
manipulation, Brian set her aside,
which only freed her to vent her
hatred on him. She offered herself
in marriage to Sigurd, Earl of
Orkney and grandson of Ivar, former
King of Dublin, if he would come to
the aid of Sitric and Molloy.
Meanwhile, the winter of 1013 was
spent in preparation for what all
now saw would be a decisive
confrontation. Sitric sought the aid
of Brodar and Ospak (Olaf) of Man,
two brothers who controlled the
seaways of Man with a fleet of
thirty long ships between them.
Brodar agreed on the condition that
he should wed Gormlaith who, with
all her failings, was very
beautiful. Sitric assented, with the
stipulation that the condition
remain secret. Olaf was dissatisfied
with the arrangement and when Brodar
tried to kill him, Olaf fled with
ten long ships, sailed to the
Shannon and became Brian’s ally.
16th
Century Jarl's Palace,
Kirkwall, Orkney                     Possibly built on the
site of Sigurd's 11th
Century palace.
Sitric then went to
Orkney, where Jarl
Sigurd, who was at
that time overlord
of The Western Isles
and of
Cineal
Cholla , was
holding a Yuletide
feast. A number of
prominent Vikings
were there,
including Jarl Gilli
(possibly
Somhairle’s
great-grandfather),
Thorstein Hallson,
Hrafn the Red and
Erling of Stroma. At
first, Sigurd was
reluctant, but
finally agreed,
after Sitric also
promised him
Gormlaith’s hand, to
have his long ships
at Dublin by Palm
Sunday (April 18,
1014). Mother and
son both counted on
the accidents of
battle to resolve
one marriage promise
or the other. 															                 Bull
Island,
sheltering 																	 "Cluain
Tarbh"
(Meadow
of Bull
Seals -
Clontarf)             on the
right in
this
picture,
and the
mouth of
the
Liffey,
at top,
Co.
Dublin   The
forces
of
the
Vikings
assembled
by
Palm
Sunday
on
the
shore
of
Clontarf,
a
few
miles
north
of
Dublin.
There
were
1,000
mail-clad
men
from
"Mona"
(The
Isle
of
Man)
under
Brodar,
as
well
as
Vikings
from
Normandy,
Flanders,
England
and
Cornwall.
But
the
major
foreign
contingent
of
picked
men
conspicuous
for
their
valor
were
those
from
the
Innse-Gall
of
Scotland,
who
obviously
included
forbearers
of
the
MacDonalds,
MacLeods,
MacSweeneys
and
all
those
Hebridean
clans
who
had
Viking
ancestors.
It
was
told
that
there
were
many
portents
and
dreams
of
omens
before
the
battle.
The
night
rained
boiling
blood
on
Brodar’s
ships
and
a
great
clamor
foretold
the
rupture
of
the
world.
Strange
horsemen
were
seen
against
the
skyline
and
crows
gathered
by
the
gates
in
anticipation
of
the
heads
that
would
be
hanging
there.
A
Seeress
at
Skida
Myre
in
Orkney
foretold
that
the
famous
Raven
battle
banner
she
had
woven
for
Sigurd
the
Strong
would
bring
victory
to
those
who
faced
it
and
death
to
him
who
bore
it.
A
man
of
Orkney
saw
a
vision
of
twelve 																			 "valkyriur"
weaving
a
terrible
cloth
of
battle
on
the
loom
of
slaughter.
"Men’s
heads
were
used
in
place
of
weights
and
men’s
intestines
for
the
weft
and
warp:
a
sword
served
as
the
beater,
and
the
shuttle
was
an
arrow."
Brian’s
forces
mustered
for
the 																			 "slogad"
at
Ceann
Coradh
on
March
17th,
St
Patrick’s
Day.
They
included
the
men
of
Muma,
of
southern
Connacht
under
their
warleaders
Ó Heyne
of
Aidhne
and
Ó Kelly
of
the
U í
Maine;
plus
the
Christianized
Norsemen
of
Luimneach
and
Phort
Lairge.
Near Cashel, Brian was
joined by the Deise Muma. Olaf and his Manx Vikings were there. Malachy
and the forces of Midi had joined them near Dubhlinn by Palm Sunday,
perhaps including the
Cineal Cholla
of Airgialla. Apart from them, the Irish were all from the southern clans, since the U í
Neill did not take part. It is said that Scottish companies fought for
Brian under Mar and Lennox as well. Another source says that they were
under Domhnall, Steward of Mar. He may have participated in opposition
to Sigurd of Orkney, who would have been his traditional enemy. They
were mentioned by Brian’s bard MacLiag, in his c.1015 tribute to Brian
and his palace,
"Kincora:"
And where is that youth of majestic height,
The faith-keeping Prince of the Scots - Even he,                                 As wide as his fame was, as great as his might,                                       Was tributary, oh, Kincora to thee!                                                   Thee, oh, Kincora!                                        Excerpt from translation by J L Mangan
It is certain that there were significant
representatives of the Highlands and Isles, including ancestors of
Cineal ua Dhomhnuil, who fought on both sides at
"Clontarf"
( Cluain Tarbh
- Meadow of Bull Seals). In retrospect, we can easily see the
importance of this decisive battle which ended the expansion of the
Vikings in the British Isles and weakened them sufficiently so that
Harald Hardraade’s defeat at Stamford Bridge in England in 1066 was
irreversible, allowing Somhairle to wrest The Isles from the
Lachlannaich a hundred and forty years later. Participation by so many
from all over the Danish Empire indicates that they understood its’
significance as well, or determined to make it so. 																											         The Irish bards
tell that on the night before the battle, the Norse claimed that Woden,
their god of war, rode up through the dusk on a dapple-gray horse,
halberd in hand and foretold that if the battle were fought on Good
Friday, Brian would be slain, but if on any other day, all would fall
who were against him. Insults were exchanged and possibly the Vikings
attempted to determine if Malachy and his men would really fight. Brian
was unwilling to fight on the Holy Day, but the pagan Vikings forced the
battle.
Each army numbered
about 20,000 men, but the Danes were better armed, most clad in shirts
of mail, their war coats appearing as a sea of dull wavering blue to the
Irish who fought in tunics. Although Brian is said to have mounted his
horse before the battle, with a golden-hilted sword in one hand and a
crucifix in the other, urging on his men; he was 73 years old and,
during the battle, he was guarded on a hill in Tomar’s Wood, by a
"skjaldborg" (fence of shields) of chosen warriors who surrounded him with their shields locked together.                                             Clontarf Sunrise Over The Irish Sea   At first light the Vikings deployed with their backs
to the shore in a typical Viking battle line. They were used to
overwhelming weak opposition and relied on brute force, rather than
tactics, for victory. But this time, because of their need to defend
both the Dubhlinn bridge and their anchored ships, their battle line
extended for more than a mile and a half. Some of their units were
separated by more than a bow shot from each other and the sea behind
left no room for retreat or maneuver, except to their ships. In any
direction they advanced, they would have to fight up hill. Rather than a
poor plan, it was no plan at all. 																														         Sitric’s
brother Dubhgall guarded the Dubhlinn bridge on the Viking left with the
Norse of the town, while Sitric watched the battle from the tower above
the gate. Molloy commanded the center with the men of Laigin, Dungal of
the Liffey’s men and the other disaffected Irish clans, who for one
reason or another opposed Boru. The sea-Vikings and men of the
Innse-Gall were on the right under Sigurd the Strong of Orkney who
flaunted his great Raven Banner. His shield wall included Plait, known
by the Irish as the bravest of the Lachlann. Then there were Hrafn the
Red, Asmund the White, Thorstein Hallson, Brodar of Mona and three other
sons of the King of Norway.
The Irish chose
to extend their front to meet the Viking deployment, so that they
advanced in a long thin line, perhaps only twelve men deep. Seventy
battle banners marked the Irish war bands. Command of the battle line
was given to Brian’s son Murrough, known as the
"Hector of Erin."
He was famous for going into battle with a sword in each hand and was in the center, supported by his own warband of
"seven score sons of kings,"
in the tradition of Irish heros.
"For there was not a king of any one tribe in Erin who had not his son
or his brother in Murrough’s household, for he was the Lord of the
volunteers of Erin."
Murrough’s brave legion was followed closely by the men of De í se Muma. On the Irish left, commanded by Murrough’s son Tordelbach, were the men of the D á l Cais, facing Sigurd, his armored Sea-Vikings and the thousand followers of Brodar of Man. The men of Connacht under
Ó Heyne
and of Olaf of Mona and other Christian Vikings, opposed Dubhgall and
the Dubhlinn Norse on the right. Malachy and the army of Midi formed the
reserve, their position partially concealed by a ditch that crossed the
battlefield.
The battle
began with a challenge to single combat between the Alban, Domhnall of
Mar, and the Viking hero, Plait, son of their king. It is told that they
were found the next morning with the hair of each in the fist of the
other, and the sword of each in the other’s heart. The battle frenzy
took charge and the two armies came together under a hail of arrows as a
great carnage ensued, so closely fought that
"a sharp, cold wind"
out of the east blew blood droplets into the eyes of Brian’s warriors.
At first the
Vikings wreaked havoc on the Irish, although Molloy was killed early in
the fight. Later in the day, Malachy attacked the Viking flank with
fresh men and the course of battle turned. The Danes began to waiver and
when Murrough and Tordelbach combined in an encircling maneuver, many
of the Lachlannaich fled toward their ships. But an exceptionally high
Spring tide had carried the vessels away and great numbers of Norse were
drowned while heaps of their dead lay on the ground. Brodar and his men
hacked their way out of the maelstrom, but Sigurd the Strong chose to
maintain his shield wall until he was dispatched by Murrough. Brian’s
son struck Sigurd a blow with his right hand sword which knocked loose
his helmet, followed by a blow with his left hand sword which clove his
neck. Murrough was soon attacked by Eric, a son of the Viking King and,
like Domhnall and Plait, they slew each other.
Brian’s army is
said to have suffered 4,000 casualties, while the Vikings lost 7,000.
Olaf of Mona blocked the bridge into Dubhlinn so that it is said that
only twenty surviving Norse reached the city. But from his post on the
hill, Brian could see that his son Murrough’s banner no longer flew and,
feeling a premonition, named his younger son his heir.
Tadhg
Ó
Ceallaigh
( Ó Kelly), King of
U í
Maine
in Connacht (Hy-Many in Galway), traditional enemy and long envious of
the Irish king, is said to have betrayed Brian, pointing out his
position to Brodar who, with his men, overcame Brian’s guard. Both Brian
and Brodar, as well as the traitor
Ó Kelly, were killed. The saga graphically describes the horrible revenge of the Irish for Brian’s slaying:
"Brodar
was taken alive. Ulf Hreda slit open his belly and unwound his
intestines from his stomach by leading him round and round an oak tree;
and Brodar did not die until they had been pulled out of him."
But
in spite of the loss of their greatest king, Ireland had won her freedom
from the Danes, probably the key factor in relieving the rest of Europe
from their tyranny as well, although they came again with a different
name a little over a hundred and fifty years later, this time called
Normans. In 1016, the men of Connacht burned Kincora and, in 1062, Aedh
Ó Connor, King of Connacht, again destroyed the rebuilt palace, feasting on the sacred salmon kept in a palace pool.
After Brian, no other
"ard righ"
ever attained the complete supremacy he had enjoyed, and for the next 150 years different families jostled for the title. The D á l n Á raide lost their sovereignty in the 12 th
Century to an outsider,
"Murchadh
Ó Cearbhaill"
(Murrough
Ó Carroll), King of Airgialla, who styled himself king of D á l n Á raide, D á l Riata and Fir Li. The first recorded
Ó Cahan,
Ragnall
(d. 1138), ruled
Fir na Craibe, Ciannachta and Fir Li
(Coleraine and Keenaght in Co. Derry). After the Ui Neill defeated the
last of the Danes in Co. Down in 1148 and the earldom of Ulster
collapsed in 1333,
Cineal Cholla , who had maintained holdings and
alliances in Antrim, began to reestablish their power and independence.
Somhairle mac Gillebruide established the Kingdom of The Isles in the
12 th
Century and it may be that the predecessors of
Cineal ua Dhomhnuil
acquired or reacquired control of Rathlin Island and some part of their
ancient patrimony of Irish Dalriada, perhaps following Somhairle’s
victory over the King of Man. In any case, the success of Somhairle in
establishing the Kingdom of The Isles produced benefits for his kinsmen
in the Glens of Antrim as well.                                                 Storm Surf in Ballycastle Bay
as an
Irish
king who ended the domination of the
High Kingship of Ireland
by the
Uí Néill . Building on the achievements of his father,
Cennétig mac Lorcain , and especially his elder brother,
Mathgamain , Bryan first made himself
King of Munster , then subjugated
Leinster , making himself ruler of the south of Ireland. He is the founder of the
O'Brien dynasty .
Bryan Boruma mac Cennetig
Bryan Bóruma mac Cennétig , ( c.
941–23 April 1014), ( English :
Bryan Boru ,
Middle Irish :
Bryan Bóruma ,
Irish :
Bryan Bóroimhe ), was an
Irish
king who ended the domination of the
High Kingship of Ireland
by the
Uí Néill . Building on the achievements of his father,
Cennétig mac Lorcain , and especially his elder brother,
Mathgamain , Bryan first made himself
King of Munster , then subjugated
Leinster , making himself ruler of the south of Ireland. He is the founder of the
O'Brien dynasty .
The Uí Néill king
Máel Sechnaill mac Domnaill , abandoned by his northern kinsmen of the
Cenél nEógain
and
Cenél Conaill , acknowledged Bryan as High King at
Athlone
in 1002. In the decade that followed, he campaigned against the northern Uí Néill, who refused to accept his claims, against Leinster, where resistance was frequent, and against the
Norse Gaelic
kingdom of
Dublin . Bryan's hard-won authority was seriously challenged in 1013 when his ally Máel Sechnaill was attacked by the Cenél nEógain king
Flaithbertach Ua Néill , with the
Ulstermen
as his allies. This was followed by further attacks on Máel Sechnaill by the Dubliners under their king
Sihtric Silkbeard
and the Leinstermen led by
Máel Mórda mac Murchada . Bryan campaigned against these enemies in 1013. In 1014, Bryan's armies confronted the armies of Leinster and Dublin at
Clontarf
near Dublin on
Good Friday . The resulting
Battle of Clontarf
was a bloody affair, with Bryan, his son Murchad, and Máel Mórda among those killed. The list of the noble dead in the
Annals of Ulster
includes Irish kings, Norse Gaels, Scotsmen, and Scandinavians. The immediate beneficiary of the slaughter was Máel Sechnaill who resumed his interrupted reign.
The court of Bryan's great-grandson
Muirchertach Ua Bryain
produced the
Cogadh Gaedhel re Gallaibh , a work of near
hagiography . The Norse Gaels and Scandinavians too produced works magnifying Bryan, among these
Njal's Saga , the
Orkneyinga Saga , and the now-lost
Bryan's Saga . Bryan's war against Máel Mórda and Sihtric was to be inextricably connected with his complicated marital relations, in particular his marriage to
Gormlaith , Máel Mórda's sister and Sihtric's mother, who had been in turn the wife of
Amlaíb Cuarán‎ , king of Dublin and
York , then of Máel Sechnaill, and finally of Bryan.
Early life
Many Irish annals state that Bryan was in his 88th year when he fell in the Battle of Clontarf in 1014. If true, this would mean that he was born as early as 926 or 927. [1]
Other birth dates given in retrospect are 923 or 942. [1]
He was one of the 12 sons of
Cennétig mac Lorcáin
(d. 951), king of Dál Cais and king of Tuadmumu (Thomond, in north Munster). Cennétig was described as
rígdamna Caisil , meaning that he was either heir or candidate ("king material") to the kingship of Cashel or Munster, [2]
although this might be a later interpolation. Bryan's mother was
Bé Binn inion Urchadh , daughter of
Urchadh mac Murchadh
(d. 945), king of
Maigh Seóla
in west Connacht. [1] [2]
That they belonged to the
Uí Briúin Seóla
may explain why he received the name Bryan, which was rare among the Dál Cais. [2]
Bryan was born at Kincora,
Killaloe , a town in the region of Tuadmumu ( Thomond ). [2]
Bryan's posthumous cognomen "Bóruma" (anglicised as Boru) may have referred to "Béal Bóruma", a fort north of Killaloe (Co Clare) in Thomond, where the Dál Cais held sway. [1] [2] [3]
Another explanation, though possibly a late (re-)interpretation, is that the nickname represented Old Irish
bóruma
"of the cattle tribute", referring to his capacity as a powerful overlord. [1]
When their father died, the kingship of Tuadmumu passed to Bryan's older brother,
Mathgamain , and, when Mathgamain was killed in 976, Bryan replaced him. Subsequently he became the King of the entire kingdom of
Munster .
The Dál gCais
Bryan belonged to the
Dál gCais
(or Dalcassians), a newly styled kin group of ultimately
Déisi
origin who occupied a territory north of the
Shannon Estuary , which today would incorporate a substantial part of
County Clare
and then formed the core of the new kingdom of
Thomond . In earlier times their ancestors had controlled some lands in today's
County Limerick
as well, but these had been overrun by the
Uí Fidgenti
from the 9th century and the invading
Norse
in the 10th.
The
River Shannon
served as an easy route by which raids could be made against the provinces of
Connacht
and
Meath . Both Bryan's father,
Cennétig mac Lorcáin
and his older brother
Mathgamain
conducted river-borne raids, in which the young Bryan would undoubtedly have participated. This was probably the root of his appreciation for
naval forces
in his later career. Thus an important influence upon the Dalcassians was the presence of the
Hiberno-Norse
city of
Limerick
on an isthmus around which the Shannon River winds (known today as
King's Island
or the Island Field). The Norse had made many a raid themselves from the Shannon, and the Dalcassians likely benefited from some interaction with them, from which they would have been exposed to innovations such as superior weapons and ship design, all factors that may have contributed to their growing power.
Mathgamain
In 964, Bryan's older brother,
Mathgamain , claimed control over the entire province of Munster by capturing the
Rock of Cashel , capital of the ancient
Eóganachta , the hereditary overlords or High Kings of Munster, but who in dynastic strife and with multiple assassinations had weakened themselves to the point they were now impotent. Earlier attacks from both the
Uí Néill
and Vikings were factors. This situation allowed the illegitimate (from the Eóganacht perspective) but militarized Dál Cais to attempt to seize the provincial kingship. However, Mathgamain was never fully recognized and was opposed throughout his career in the 960s and 970s by
Máel Muad mac Brain , a semi-outsider from the Cashel perspective but still a legitimate Eóganacht claimant from far south Munster. In addition to Máel Muad, the Norse king
Ivar of Limerick
was a threat and may have been attempting to establish some overlordship in the province or a region of it himself, with the
Cogad Gaedel re Gallaib
even asserting he actually achieved this until routed by Mathgamain in the celebrated
Battle of Sulcoit
in 967. This victory was not decisive however and eventually there grew up a brief alliance of sorts between Mathgamain, Máel Muad and others to drive the Norse "soldiers" or "officials" out of Munster and destroy their Limerick fortress in 972. [4]
But the two Gaelic claimants were soon back to fighting and the fortuitous capture of Mathgamain in 976 by
Donnubán mac Cathail
allowed him to be effortlessly dispatched or murdered by Máel Muad, who would now rule as king of Cashel for two years.
But the Dál Cais remained a powerful force and Brian quickly proved to be as fine a commander of armies as his brother. After first dispatching the already much weakened Ivar in 977, he challenged Máel Muad in 978 and defeated him in the fateful
Battle of Belach Lechta , after which all the Eóganachta were no longer viable at the provincial level and Brian and the Dál Cais now enjoyed the overlordship, although not the traditional kingship of the province, which was based on lineage. Either soon before or soon after his victory over Máel Muad, Bryan routed Donnubán and the remainder of the Norse army in the
Battle of Cathair Cuan , there probably slaying the last of Ivar's sons and successor Aralt. He then allowed some of the Norse to remain in their settlement, but they were wealthy and now central to trade in the region, with a fleet of great value.
Cian , the son of his brother Mathgamain's sworn enemy Máel Muad, later became a faithful ally of Bryan and served under him in a number of campaigns.
Extending authority
Having established unchallenged rule over his home Province of Munster, Bryan turned to extending his authority over the neighboring provinces of
Leinster
to the east and Connacht to the north. By doing so, he came into conflict with High King
Máel Sechnaill mac Domnaill
whose power base was the Province of
Meath . For the next fifteen years, from 982 to 997, High King Máel Sechnaill repeatedly led armies into Leinster and Munster, while Bryan, like his father and brother before him, led his naval forces up the Shannon to attack Connacht and Meath on either side of the river. He suffered quite a few reverses in this struggle, but appears to have learned from his setbacks. He developed a military strategy that would serve him well throughout his career: the coordinated use of forces on both land and water, including on rivers and along Ireland's coast. Bryan's naval forces, which included contingents supplied by the Hiberno-Norse cities that he brought under his control, provided both indirect and direct support for his forces on land. Indirect support involved a fleet making a diversionary attack on an enemy in a location far away from where Brian planned to strike with his army. Direct support involved naval forces acting as one arm in a
strategic pincer , the army forming the other arm.
In 996 Bryan finally managed to control the province of
Leinster , which may have been what led Máel Sechnaill to reach a compromise with him in the following year. By recognising Bryan's authority over
Leth Moga , that is, the Southern Half, which included the Provinces of Munster and Leinster (and the Hiberno-Norse cities within them), Máel Sechnaill was simply accepting the reality that confronted him and retained control over
Leth Cuinn , that is, the Northern Half, which consisted of the Provinces of Meath,
Connacht , and
Ulster .
Precisely because he had submitted to Bryan's authority, the King of Leinster was overthrown in 998 and replaced by
Máel Morda mac Murchada . Given the circumstances under which Máel Morda had been appointed, it is not surprising that he launched an open rebellion against Bryan's authority. In response, Bryan assembled the forces of the Province of Munster with the intention of laying siege to the Hiberno-Norse city of Dublin, which was ruled by Máel Morda's ally and cousin,
Sigtrygg Silkbeard . Together Máel Morda and Sigtrygg determined to meet Bryan's army in battle rather than risk a
siege . Thus, in 999, the opposing armies fought the
Battle of Glen Mama . The
Irish annals
all agree that this was a particularly fierce and bloody engagement, although claims that it lasted from morning until midnight, or that the combined Leinster-Dublin force lost 4,000 killed are open to question. In any case, Bryan followed up his victory, as he and his brother had in the aftermath of the
Battle of Sulcoit
thirty-two years before, by capturing and
sacking
the enemy's city. Once again, however, Bryan opted for reconciliation; he requested Sigtrygg to return and resume his position as ruler of Dublin, giving Sigtrygg the hand of one of his daughters in marriage, just as he had with the Eoganacht King, Cian. It may have been on this occasion that Bryan married Sigtrygg's mother and Máel Morda's sister
Gormflaith , the former wife of Máel Sechnaill.
The struggle for Ireland
Bryan made it clear that his ambitions had not been satisfied by the compromise of 997 when, in the year 1000, he led a combined Munster-Leinster-Dublin army in an attack on High King
Máel Sechnaill mac Domnaill 's home province of Meath. The struggle over who would control all of Ireland was renewed. Máel Sechnaill's most important ally was the
King of Connacht ,
Cathal mac Conchobar mac Taidg
(O'Connor), but this presented a number of problems. The Provinces of Meath and Connacht were separated by the Shannon River, which served as both a route by which Bryan's naval forces could attack the shores of either province and as a barrier to the two rulers providing mutual support for each other. Máel Sechnaill came up with an ingenious solution; two bridges would be erected across the Shannon. These bridges would serve as both obstacles preventing Bryan's fleet from traveling up the Shannon and as a means by which the armies of the Provinces of Meath and Connacht could cross over into each others kingdoms.
The Annals state that, in the year 1002, Máel Sechnaill surrendered his title to Bryan, although they do not say anything about how or why this came about. The
Cogadh Gaedhil re Gallaibh
provides a story in which Bryan challenges High King Máel Sechnaill to a battle at the
Hill of Tara
in the province of Meath, but the High King requests a month long truce so that he can mobilise his forces, which Bryan grants him. But Máel Sechnaill fails to rally the regional rulers who are nominally his subordinates by the time the deadline arrives, and he is forced to surrender his title to Bryan. This explanation is hardly credible, given Bryan's style of engaging in war; if he had found his opponent at a disadvantage he would certainly have taken full advantage of it rather than allowing his enemy the time to even the odds. Conversely, it is hard to believe, given the length and intensity of the struggle between Máel Sechnaill and Bryan, that the High King would surrender his title without a fight.
Where that fight may have occurred and what the particular circumstances were surrounding it we may never know. What is certain is that in 1002 Bryan became the new High King of Ireland.
Unlike some who had previously held the title, Bryan intended to be High King in more than name only. To accomplish this he needed to impose his will upon the regional rulers of the only Province that did not already recognise his authority,
Ulster . Ulster's geography presented a formidable challenge; there were three main routes by which an invading army could enter the Province, and all three favored the defenders. Bryan first had to find a means of getting through or around these defensive ' choke points ', and then he had to subdue the fiercely independent regional Kings of Ulster. It took Bryan ten years of campaigning to achieve his goal which, considering he could and did call on all of the military forces of the rest of Ireland, indicates how formidable the Kings of Ulster were. Once again, it was his coordinated use of forces on land and at sea that allowed him to triumph; while the rulers of Ulster could bring the advance of Bryan's army to a halt, they could not prevent his fleet from attacking the shores of their kingdoms. But gaining entry to the Province of Ulster brought him only halfway to his goal. Bryan systematically defeated each of the regional rulers who defied him, forcing them to recognise him as their overlord.
Emperor of the Irish
It was during this process that Bryan pursued an alternate means of consolidating his control, not merely over the Province of Ulster, but over Ireland as a whole. In contrast to its structure elsewhere, the
Roman Catholic Church in Ireland
was centered, not around the bishops of
diocese
and archbishops of
archdiocese , but rather around
monasteries
headed by powerful abbots who were members of the royal dynasties of the lands in which their monasteries resided. Among the most important monasteries was
Armagh , located in the Province of Ulster. Bryan's advisor,
Maelsuthain O'Carroll
documented in the ' Book of Armagh ' that, in the year 1005, Bryan donated twenty-two ounces of gold to the monastery and declared that Armagh was the religious capital of Ireland to which all other monasteries should send the funds they collected. This was a clever move, for the supremacy of the monastery of Armagh would last only so long as Bryan remained the High King. Therefore, it was in the interest of Armagh to support Bryan with all their wealth and power. It is interesting that Bryan is not referred to in the passage from the 'Book of Armagh' as the 'Ard Ri' —that is, High-King— but rather he is declared " Imperator Scottorum ," or "Emperor of the Irish" ("Scottorum" then being the common Late Latin term for the Irish: Ireland was usually referred to in Latin as "Scotia Major" while Scotland was referred to as "Scotia Minor").
Though it is only speculation, it has been suggested that Bryan and the Church in Ireland were together seeking to establish a new form of kingship in Ireland, one that was modelled after the kingships of
England
and
France , in which there were no lesser ranks of regional Kings – simply one King who had (or sought to have) power over all in a
unitary state . In any case, whether as High King or Emperor, by 1011 all of the regional rulers in Ireland acknowledged Bryan's authority. No sooner had this been achieved than it was lost again.
Máel Mórda mac Murchada
of
Leinster
had only accepted Bryan's authority grudgingly and in 1012 rose in rebellion. The
Cogadh Gaedhil re Gallaibh
relates a story in which one of Bryan's sons insults Máel Morda, which leads him to declare his independence from Bryan's authority. Whatever the actual reason was, Máel Morda sought allies with which to defy the High-King. He found one in a regional ruler in Ulster who had only recently submitted to Bryan. Together they attacked the Province of Meath, where the former High King Máel Sechnaill sought Bryan's help to defend his Kingdom. In 1013 Bryan led a force from his own Province of Munster and from southern Connacht into Leinster; a detachment under his son, Murchad, ravaged the southern half of the Province of Leinster for three months. The forces under Murchad and Bryan were reunited on 9 September outside the walls of Dublin. The city was blockaded, but it was the High King's army that ran out of supplies first, so that Bryan was forced to abandon the siege and return to Munster around the time of
Christmas .
Máel Morda may have hoped that by defying Brian, he could enlist the aid of all the other regional rulers Bryan had forced to submit to him. If so, he must have been sorely disappointed; while the entire Province of Ulster and most of the Province of Connacht failed to provide the High King with troops, they did not, with the exception of a single ruler in Ulster, provide support for Máel Morda either. His inability to obtain troops from any rulers in Ireland, along with his awareness that he would need them when the High King returned in 1014, may explain why Máel Morda sought to obtain troops from rulers outside of Ireland. He instructed his subordinate and cousin, Sigtrygg, the ruler of Dublin, to travel overseas to enlist aid.
Sigtrygg sailed to
Orkney , and on his return stopped at the
Isle of Man . These islands had been seized by the Vikings long before and the Hiberno-Norse had close ties with Orkney and the Isle of Man. There was even a precedent for employing Norsemen from the isles; they had been used by Sigtrygg's father,
Amlaíb Cuarán , in 980, and by Sigtrygg himself in 990. Their incentive was loot, not land. Contrary to the assertions made in the
Cogadh Gaedhil re Gallaibh , this was not an attempt by the Vikings to reconquer Ireland. All of the Norsemen, both the
Norse-Gaels
of Dublin and the Norsemen from the Isles, were in the service of Máel Morda. It should be remembered that the High King had 'Vikings' in his army as well; mainly the Hiberno-Norse of Limerick (and probably those of Waterford, Wexford, and Cork as well), but, according to some sources, a rival gang of Norse mercenaries from the Isle of Man.
Essentially this could be characterised as an Irish civil war in which foreigners participated as minor players.
Along with whatever troops he obtained from abroad, the forces that Bryan mustered included the troops of his home Province of Munster, those of Southern Connacht, and the men of the Province of Meath, the latter commanded by his old rival Máel Sechnaill mac Domnaill. He may have outnumbered Máel Morda's army, since Bryan felt secure enough to dispatch a mounted detachment under the command of his youngest son, Donnchad, to raid southern Leinster, presumably hoping to force Máel Morda to release his contingents from there to return to defend their homes. Unfortunately for the High King, if he had had a superiority in numbers it was soon lost. A disagreement with the King of Meath resulted in Máel Sechnaill withdrawing his support (Bryan sent a messenger to find Donnchad and ask him to return with his detachment, but the call for help came too late). To compound his problems, the Norse contingents, led by
Sigurd Hlodvirsson ,
Earl of Orkney
and
Brodir
of the Isle of Man, arrived on
Palm Sunday , 18 April. The battle would occur five days later, on
Good Friday .
The fighting took place just north of the city of
Dublin , at
Clontarf
(now a prosperous suburb). It may well be that the two sides were evenly matched, as all of the accounts state that the
Battle of Clontarf
lasted all day. Although this may be an exaggeration, it does suggest that it was a long, drawn-out fight.
There are many legends concerning how Bryan was killed, from dying in a heroic man-to-man combat to being killed by the fleeing Viking mercenary
Brodir
while praying in his tent at Clontarf [ citation needed ] . He is said to be buried in the grounds of
St. Patrick's Cathedral
in the city of Armagh. Legend dictates he is buried at the north end of the church.
Historical view
The popular image of Bryan—the ruler who managed to unify the regional leaders of
Ireland
so as to free the land from a 'Danish' ( Viking ) occupation—originates from the powerful influence of a work of 12th century propaganda,
Cogadh Gaedhil re Gallaibh
( The War of the Irish with the Foreigners ) in which Bryan takes the leading role. This work is thought to have been commissioned by Bryan's great-grandson,
Muirchertach Ua Bryain
as a means of justifying the Ua Bryain claim to the High-Kingship, a title upon which the Uí Neill had had a near-monopoly.
The influence of this work, on both scholarly and popular authors, cannot be exaggerated. Until the 1970s most scholarly writing concerning the Vikings' activities in Ireland, as well as the career of Bryan Boru, accepted the claims of
Cogadh Gaedhil re Gallaibh
at face value.
Bryan did not free Ireland from a Norse ( Viking ) occupation simply because it was never conquered by the Vikings. In the last decade of the 8th century, Norse raiders began attacking targets in Ireland and, beginning in the mid-9th century, these raiders established the fortified camps that later grew into Ireland's first cities:
Dublin ,
Limerick ,
Waterford ,
Wexford , and
Cork . Within only a few generations, the Norse citizens of these cities had converted to Christianity, inter-married with the Irish, and often adopted the
Irish language , dress and customs; thus becoming what historians refer to as the ' Hiberno-Norse '. Such Hiberno-Norse cities were fully integrated into the political scene in Ireland, long before the birth of Bryan. They often suffered attacks from Irish rulers, and made alliances with others. Rather than conquering Ireland, the Vikings, who initially attacked and subsequently settled in Ireland were, in fact, assimilated by the Irish. [ citation needed ]
Wives and children
Bryan's first wife was Mór, daughter of the king of
Uí Fiachrach Aidne
of Connacht. She is said to have been the mother of his sons Murchad, Conchobar and Flann. Later genealogies claimed that these sons left no descendants, although in fact Murchad's son Tadc is recorded as being killed at Clontarf along with his father and grandfather. [5]
Echrad daughter of the king of Uí Áeda Odba, an obscure branch of the southern Uí Néill, was the mother of
Tadc , whose son
Toirdelbach
and grandson
Muirchertach
rivalled Bryan in power and fame. [6]
Bryan's most famous marriage was with
Gormflaith , sister of Máel Mórda of Leinster.
Donnchad , who had his half-brother Tadc killed in 1023 and ruled Munster for forty years thereafter, was the result of this union. [7]
Bryan had a sixth son, Domnall. Although he predeceased his father Domnall apparently had at least one surviving child, a son whose name is not recorded. Domnall may perhaps have been the son of Bryan's fourth known wife, Dub Choblaig, who died in 1009. She was a daughter of King
Cathal mac Conchobar mac Taidg
of Connacht. [8]
Bryan had at least three daughters but their mothers are not recorded. Sadb, whose death in 1048 is recorded by the
Annals of Innisfallen , was married to Cian, son of Máel Muad mac Bryan. Bé Binn was married to the northern Uí Néill king
Flaithbertach Ua Néill . A third daughter, whose name may have been Sláine, was married to Bryan's stepson Sitric of Dublin. [9]
According to
Njal's Saga , he had a foster-son named Kerthialfad. [10]
Cultural heritage
The descendants of Bryan were known as the Ui Bryain
(O'Brien) clan, hence the surnames Ó Briain, O'Brien, O'Brian etc.
"O" was originally Ó which in turn came from Ua, which means
"grandson", or "descendant" (of a named person). The
prefix is often anglicised to O', using an apostrophe instead of the Irish
síneadh fada : "´". The
O'Briens
subsequently ranked as one of the chief
dynastic
families of the country (see
Chiefs of the Name ).
In popular culture
Morgan Llywelyn
has written a novelization of Bryan's life called simply
Lion of Ireland .
The sequel,
Pride of Lions ,
tells the story of his sons, Donough and Teigue, as they vie for his crown.
His name is remembered in the title of one of the oldest tunes in Ireland's traditional repertoire: " Bryan Boru's March ". It is still widely played by traditional Irish musicians.
The
Star Trek
character
Miles O'Brien
claimed to be a descendant of Bryan Boru.
Edward Rutherfurd
affords Bryan Boru a chapter in his historical fiction,
The Princes of Ireland: The Dublin Saga . His version supports the contention that Bryan died while praying in his tent.
The second volume of
Brian Wood 's
Vertigo
graphic novel series
Northlanders
is set against a backdrop of Viking "occupation" of Ireland, including the
Battle of Clontarf .
Members Area
Login with Facebook
Sign In
or
Register
Recent Blog Entries
The Clan O'Flaithbheartaigh
by
Ladybug Lafferty
| 0 comments
Recent Photos
Recent Videos
Grace O'Malley~Part 5
781 views - 0 comments
Grace O'Malley~Part 4
702 views - 0 comments
Grace O'Malley~Part 3
682 views - 0 comments
Grace O'Malley~Part 2
752 views - 0 comments
Newest Members
Copyright ©2011
Create a Free Website