Should we exercise when our blood pressure is high? - Physical Fitness Stack Exchange
current community
blog
chat
Physical Fitness
Physical Fitness Meta
your communities
Sign up
or
log in
to customize your list.
more stack exchange communities
company blog
Stack Exchange
Inbox
Reputation and Badges
sign up
log in
tour
help
Tour
Start here for a quick overview of the site
Help Center
Detailed answers to any questions you might have
Meta
Discuss the workings and policies of this site
Physical Fitness
beta
Questions
Tags
Users
Badges
Unanswered
Ask Question
Sign up
×
Physical Fitness Stack Exchange is a question and answer site for physical fitness professionals, athletes, trainers, and those providing health-related needs. It's 100% free, no registration required.
Should we exercise when our blood pressure is high?
up vote
6
down vote
favorite
I normally can control my blood pressure (120/80) by managing to have healthy life style, following my nutritionist's diet guide, enough rest/sleep, no stress and regular exercise. But this morning (GMT +8 / Malaysia Time) I ate just a small spoon of lamb at my friend's wedding party. No wonder I kinda got headache after that, so I just took a nap as soon as I was home. And felt better when I woke up. Tonight when I checked my blood pressure is 140/90.
I usually do body weight exercise at night and walk/jog in the morning.
I already walked for 5.5km this morning and did 36 classic push ups and 10 push ups with my feet higher on a bench while I took rest near the beautiful lake then walked home. I just feel something is missing now, really.
Is it safe if I exercise right now?
I usually do ladders: 3 sets of 6 reps push ups, 2 sets of 4 reps seated dips in, 2 sets of 5 reps deep push ups, 2 sets of 6 reps of bear walks.
I searched on and on and googled around but found nothing about this. What I found from google were always boring references of things I already do regularly, like balance diet, regular exercise, etc etc.
exercise
bodyweight-exercises
share | improve this question
edited
Dec 6 '12 at 18:18
Baarn
3,562 2 18 47
asked
Jul 3 '11 at 14:30
Arie
402 1 3 10
add a comment  |
5 Answers
5
active
oldest
votes
up vote
4
down vote
accepted
You definitely have to manage blood pressure as best you can.
There are a couple things you have to keep in mind with exercise:
Anaerobic exercise will increase the blood pressure during exertion
Aerobic exercise will slow the heart rate and increase the volume (but not blood pressure)
After both types of exercise your
resting
blood pressure will be lower.
However, if you already deal with high blood pressure you need to get it under control before you do anything anaerobic (like any type of strength training).
In short, if your BP is already high, doing the dips will make it peak while you are exercising.
As your answer hinted at, you have to make sure your diet is in order so you can be in a good place to get your exercise in.
It also might be a good idea to talk to your doctor about the types of exercise they would recommend.
You might be best served by sticking with purely aerobic exercise.
My mother-in-law deals with high blood pressure and vertigo, and she enjoys Jazzercise safely.
When she has an episode she will back off the exercise until she can get everything back under control.
share | improve this answer
answered
Jul 5 '11 at 14:16
Berin Loritsch
40.6k 1 35 112
The aerobic/anaerobic statements here are incorrect.
–  Grohlier
Dec 10 '12 at 20:34
add a comment  |
up vote
4
down vote
I would like to share with you my experience. I recently discovered that I had high BP and was put on medicine. Before you start doing exercise with weights you need to double check with the Doctor + you need to ensure that you DON’T stop your breath while lifting weights. There is a danger of BP shooting up if you hold your breath for long.
Now to start with what has worked for me:
Start with aerobic exercises first. Make sure that you do Aerobic exercise for 30 mintutes and light weights for around 10 minutes. Slowly increase the time that you spend doing weights. You can reduce your aerobic time to minimum 15 minutes but never give up aerobic exercises. IMO you get best results when you do both forms of exercises. If you follow your exercises regime for 2 months you will be a much fitter person and blood pressure should be closer to normal. It has worked amazingly for me . Since you are young you might as well fix this problem for ever. Also remember to cool down post work out. This is of paramount importance. Once you are done, lie down on a mat and rest for 5-10 minutes concentrating on your breath and breathing deeply.
IMO if you don’t have any physical condition like Unbalanced Thyroid or Cholestrol, BP might purely be a lifestyle disease for you. You can do wonders by losing weight/controlling stress and reducing salt intake.
share | improve this answer
answered
Aug 23 '11 at 9:37
Geek
500 1 8 15
Thanks for the insightful sharing! I appreciate it.
–  Arie
Aug 27 '11 at 8:52
add a comment  |
up vote
1
down vote
Both aerobic and anaerobic exercise will increase the pressure inside your body.
Aerobic exercise speeds up your heart rate (baring the use of rate limiting drugs).
Stroke volume (the volume of blood ejected from the heart with each beat) is also increased with aerobic exercise.
For both reasons, since the vascular system is a closed pathway, blood pressure goes up.
Anaerobic exercise is more apt to increase your inner thoracic cavity pressure (pressure inside your chest/stomach) than your blood pressure.
An exception might be doing dynamic-anaerobic weight lifting movements (walking lunges) where the movement is still classified as anaerobic but still taxes your body enough your heart rate increases.
Working in a hospital setting our limitations for blood pressures that we don't allow patients to exercise are over 180/106 or below 90/60.
Those limitations also change if a patient is symptomatic (light headed, dizzy, nauseous, chest pain, etc.).
If your blood pressure has started becoming gradually higher you should probably go talk to your primary care physician to discuss if anything needs to be pursued.
If it was a one time deal you should be fine (exceptions being symptomatic). All different things can affect your blood pressure: Stress, Sleep, Fluid retention, even body position (laying down, seated, standing).
share | improve this answer
answered
Dec 6 '12 at 18:09
Grohlier
1,155 4 10
add a comment  |
up vote
0
down vote
Lesson's learned, I mustn't eat foods that I musn't eat, including just a small spoon of lamb, even at others' place/event, the trick : I should've been able to manage to get stuffed at home with my own diet based on my nutritionist's guide before getting to the party so all I could eat were just safe to
hbp
and healthy fruits like watermellon etc.
Since my headache was getting worst all I did yesterday was exercised/pushed myself to my limit that I think I could handle safely, it was just 10 light push ups with my hands on my bed and my feet on the floor, so that was less contraction, less satisfaction, that's the price I must pay for just a small spoon of lamb. And only 5 deep push ups with my feet just 15cm higher from the floor. I feel so guilty whenever I don't do my body-weight exercise like this.
I can exercise normally again starting from tonight, because I checked my blood pressure got back to normal again (120/80) recently, but I had to lie down on bed
much
longer than I wanted because I couldn't resist if my head felt like being hit by many nails with a hammer.
Anyone who's been fighting
BPPV
Vertigo
and
hbp
with regular exercise and balanced diet like me is always welcomed to share experience here. Thanks.
share | improve this answer
answered
Jul 5 '11 at 10:55
community wiki
Arie
add a comment  |
up vote
0
down vote
You need to think if you've done anything dispite eating lamb that day, because it should not be such a powerfull triger. Maybe you've been under stress or lack of sleep, then a little lamb just was a trigger.
My experience was like this.
Eating meat just bothers my health, stress is a mighty contributor, lack of sleep, coffee...
I have dumped pills and first thing first I was on to meditation. Imediately I felt better.
Bike exercise is by my opinion the best. I did pull ups, and felt good, but only in the morning.
Red meat, only 1 day in a week.
Smothies every day.
Dumped coffee. Why? Most doctors, and everybody else will tell you that one or two cups od coffee is healty. Well it is not! From bp 125 coffee will raise you to bp 130. Just a little bit of stress or burger can get you to bp 140. Instead of coffee have dark chocholade every day as an antyoxidance.
Be discipline!
When you mesure a high bp do not exercise in that moment. You can maybe have a walk.
Have shower and meditate.
Eat smothie with a vegetables that are prown to lower bp, like beet.
share | improve this answer
answered
Aug 25 at 14:45
Equilibrium
1
add a comment  |
Your Answer
draft saved
draft discarded
Sign up or
log in
Sign up using Google
Sign up using Facebook
Sign up using Email and Password
Post as a guest
Name
Email
Post as a guest
Name
Email
discard
By posting your answer, you agree to the
privacy policy
and
terms of service .
Not the answer you're looking for?							Browse other questions tagged
exercise
bodyweight-exercises
or
ask your own question .
asked
4 years ago
viewed
17439 times
active
2 months ago
Get the
weekly newsletter!
Top questions and answers
Important announcements
Unanswered questions
see an
example newsletter
By subscribing, you agree to the
privacy policy
and
terms of service .
Related
6
When do our bodies burn our fat?
9
Why are pyramid sets often advised for bodyweight exercises?
2
How long should i excercise?
6
Free weights or body weight exercises?
2
Does muscle adaptation occur when strength training (low reps)?
2
I want to gain weight using bodyweight exercises
1
Should I eat before or after my exercise?
14
What quiet exercises should I be fitting into a short morning workout for all-round fitness?
4
Combining home exercise with limited equipment with gym
3
Advanced High Frequency Training
Hot Network Questions
Is Earth really a magnet?
Difference between homology and integral homology?
Is reusing old code for a new assignment considered self plagiarism? How to protect yourself if you consider it to be, and a group partner does not?
How to pronounce "friends"?
The difference in "reduce", "lower", and "decrease"?
Is it possible to reduce the size of an RSA key?
Why use SSH and VPN in combination?
What does Opt. S.D. mean?
What is the latest date for the setting in a sci-fi text or movie?
How many major cities would need to be destroyed by nuclear strikes to completely disable the world economy?
Can I add a baby as a co-author of a scientific paper?
Super Heavyweight Biker keeps destroying dutch bikes
General question about analog and digital signals
Why does "ls -l" display the year of my (jar) file as "16:18"?
Why would governments legalize marijuana?
How do I use scp backwards?
In Back to the Future, how did Marty get the timing right with the lightning strike?
Whats wrong with my file check script?
For which problems in P is it easier to verify the result than to find it?
Orthogonal Wavefunctions
Has Batman ever teamed up with Joker?
Why do we 'cut' a deal?
Can you solve this devilish Junior Jumble?
Customized Not Equal Symbol
more hot questions
question feed
tour
help
blog
chat
data
legal
privacy policy
work here
advertising info
mobile
contact us
feedback
Technology
Life / Arts
Culture / Recreation
Science
Other
Stack Overflow
Server Fault
Super User
Web Applications
Ask Ubuntu
Webmasters
Game Development
TeX - LaTeX
Programmers
Unix & Linux
Ask Different (Apple)
WordPress Development
Geographic Information Systems
Electrical Engineering
Android Enthusiasts
Information Security
Database Administrators
Drupal Answers
SharePoint
User Experience
Mathematica
Salesforce
ExpressionEngine® Answers
more (13)
Photography
Science Fiction & Fantasy
Graphic Design
Movies & TV
Seasoned Advice (cooking)
Home Improvement
Personal Finance & Money
Academia
more (9)
English Language & Usage
Skeptics
Mi Yodeya (Judaism)
Travel
Christianity
Arqade (gaming)
Bicycles
Role-playing Games
more (21)
Mathematics
Cross Validated (stats)
Theoretical Computer Science
Physics
MathOverflow
Chemistry
Biology
more (5)
Stack Apps
Meta Stack Exchange
Area 51
Stack Overflow Careers
site design / logo © 2015 Stack Exchange Inc; user contributions licensed under
cc by-sa 3.0
with
attribution required
rev 2015.10.30.2921
Physical Fitness Stack Exchange works best with JavaScript enabled