lovely gurlz: August 2010
lovely gurlz
dream as if you'll live FOREVER..
live as if you'll die today...
Search This Blog
Loading...
Thursday, August 19, 2010
WRITING (ENGLISH)
Nowadays, there are numbers of students who are choosy in deciding which universities they want to apply to further their studies. There are a few reasons why students are having problems with it such as facilities & services, courses offered, fees and the job opportunity after the students had graduated.
Firstly, students should consider about the facilities & services provided by the universities. Facilities that should be provided such as cafeteria and library, whereas the types of services are information & technology (including Wi-Fi) and also transportation. These two criteria are very important for the students to consider when applying to the university because the students are going to used it in the future during their study. For example, if there is no library in the university, how would students in the university going to study and do research. It will cause problems to the students going outside of the university area to search for these sources. This means that, it’s not only going to waste the student’s time, but it also going to waste the student’s money. So, it’s very important for the students to consider about the facilities & services provided.
Secondly, the courses offered and the job opportunity after post graduated by the universities should also be considered.  There are many courses offered by the universities in the Malaysia such as biotechnology, multimedia, art & design, law, account and many more. Students should think first before choose the courses that they want to study. It is because the courses taken are going to be used in the future when they are going to work.  Besides, they also need to think about the job opportunity.  If the students took courses that are less job opportunity, it’s going to be meaningless. In instant, many universities nowadays offered an administrative course to the students even though they know that the job opportunities are less in the future. If it is in this case, the students need to put an effort to find a job after they graduated.
Lastly, the fees of the courses offered should be considered by the students. Sometimes, the fees offered by the universities are differently from each another even though they are offering the same courses. So, as a student’s they should do a research first before registered their name in that particular courses. They should check the total amount of the fees that they are going to paid along their studies. In order to prevent any complications in the future, students should asked opinion from the other people. Even though the universities offer a low fees, but it does not mean that the level of study, facilities and the services are the same. So, they should go thoroughly with the list of universities and do a comparison.
In conclusion, while choosing the universities for the students to apply, they should consider many things. If they just ignore about it, it will have trouble to them in their future during their study. So, before choosing which university they want to apply to, they should considered about the facilities & services, courses offered, job opportunity and also the fees. They should think about it deeply before make any decision in order for them to avoid any problem.
Posted by
nanatyneneqah...
at
9:56:00 AM
No comments:
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share to Pinterest
Wednesday, August 18, 2010
TUBERCULOSIS
Tuberculosis
or
TB
(short for tubercles
bacillus ) is a common and often deadly
infectious disease
caused by various strains of
mycobacteria , usually
Mycobacterium tuberculosis
in humans.
Tuberculosis usually attacks the
lungs
but can also affect other parts of the body. It is spread through the air, when people who have the disease cough, sneeze, or spit.
Most infections in humans result in an
asymptomatic , latent infection, and about one in ten latent infections eventually progresses to active disease, which, if left untreated, kills more than 50% of its victims.
The classic symptoms are a
chronic cough
with
blood-tinged
sputum ,
fever ,
night sweats , and
weight loss . Infection of other organs causes a wide range of symptoms.
Diagnosis
relies on
radiology
(commonly
chest X-rays ), a
tuberculin skin test , blood tests, as well as microscopic examination and
microbiological culture
of bodily fluids.
Treatment
is difficult and requires long courses of multiple antibiotics. Contacts are also screened and treated if necessary.
Antibiotic resistance
is a growing problem in ( extensively )
multi-drug-resistant tuberculosis . Prevention relies on screening programs and
vaccination , usually with
Bacillus Calmette-Guérin
vaccine.
A third of the world's population are thought to be infected with
M. tuberculosis , and new infections occur at a rate of about one per second. The proportion of people who become sick with tuberculosis each year is stable or falling worldwide but, because of population growth, the absolute number of new cases is still increasing.
In 2007 there were an estimated 13.7 million chronic active cases, 9.3 million new cases, and 1.8 million deaths, mostly in
developing countries .
In addition, more people in the
developed world
are contracting tuberculosis because their
immune systems
are compromised by
immunosuppressive drugs ,
substance abuse , or
AIDS . The distribution of tuberculosis is not uniform across the globe; about 80% of the population in many Asian and African countries test positive in tuberculin tests, while only 5-10% of the US population test positive.
Classification
Main article:
Tuberculosis classification
The current clinical classification system for tuberculosis (TB) is based on the pathogenesis of the disease. [ citation needed ]
Classification System for TB
Class
Type
Description
0
No TB exposure
Not infected
No history of exposure
Negative reaction to
tuberculin
skin test
1
TB exposure
No evidence of infection
History of exposure
Negative reaction to tuberculin skin test
Ghon complex
2
TB infection
No disease
Positive reaction to tuberculin skin test
Negative bacteriologic studies (if done)
Fibrocaseous cavitary lesion (usually in upper lobe of lungs)
3
TB, clinically active
M. tuberculosis
cultured (if done)
Clinical, bacteriologic, or radiographic evidence of current disease
4
TB
Not clinically active
History of episode(s) of TB
or
Abnormal but stable radiographic findings
Positive reaction to the tuberculin skin test
Negative bacteriologic studies (if done)
and
No clinical or radiographic evidence of current disease
5
TB suspect
Diagnosis pending
TB disease should be ruled in or out within 3 months
Signs and symptoms
Main symptoms of variants and stages of tuberculosis,
with many symptoms overlapping with other variants, while others are more (but not entirely) specific for certain variants. Multiple variants may be present simultaneously.
Scanning electron micrograph of
Mycobacterium tuberculosis
Phylogenetic tree
of the genus
Mycobacterium .
When the disease becomes active, 75% of the cases are
pulmonary
TB, that is, TB in the lungs. Symptoms include
chest pain ,
coughing up blood , and a productive, prolonged cough for more than three weeks. Systemic symptoms include
fever ,
chills ,
night sweats ,
appetite loss ,
weight loss ,
pallor , and often a tendency to
fatigue
very easily.
In the other 25% of active cases, the infection moves from the lungs, causing other kinds of TB, collectively denoted extrapulmonary tuberculosis.
This occurs more commonly in
immunosuppressed
persons and young children. Extrapulmonary infection sites include the
pleura
in tuberculosis pleurisy, the
central nervous system meningitis , the
lymphatic system
in
scrofula
of the neck, the
genitourinary system
in
urogenital tuberculosis , and bones and joints in
Pott's disease
of the spine. An especially serious form is disseminated TB, more commonly known as
miliary tuberculosis . Extrapulmonary TB may co-exist with pulmonary TB as well.
in
Causes
Main article:
Mycobacterium tuberculosis
The primary cause of TB,
Mycobacterium tuberculosis , is a small
aerobic
non-motile
bacillus . High
lipid [ 10 ]
It
divides
every 16 to 20 hours, an extremely slow rate compared with other bacteria, which usually divide in less than an hour.
(For example, one of the fastest-growing bacteria is a strain of
E. coli
that can divide roughly every 20 minutes.) Since MTB has a cell wall but lacks a
phospholipid
outer membrane , it is
classified
as a
Gram-positive Gram stain
is performed, MTB either stains very weakly Gram-positive or does not retain dye due to the high lipid & mycolic acid content of its cell wall.
MTB can withstand weak
disinfectants dry state
for weeks. In nature, the bacterium can grow only within the cells of a
host M. tuberculosis
can be cultured
in vitro .
content of this pathogen accounts for many of its unique clinical characteristics. bacterium. However, if a
and survive in a
organism, but
Using
histological
stains on expectorate samples from
phlegm
(also called sputum), scientists can identify MTB under a regular microscope. Since MTB retains certain stains after being treated with acidic solution, it is classified as an
acid-fast bacillus
(AFB).
The most common acid-fast staining technique, the
Ziehl-Neelsen stain , dyes AFBs a bright red that stands out clearly against a blue background. Other ways to visualize AFBs include an
auramine-rhodamine stain
and
fluorescent microscopy .
The
M. tuberculosis
complex includes four other TB-causing
mycobacteria :
M. bovis ,
M. africanum ,
M. canetti
and
M. microti .
M. africanum
is not widespread, but in parts of Africa it is a significant cause of tuberculosis.
M. bovis
was once a common cause of tuberculosis, but the introduction of
pasteurized milk
has largely eliminated this as a public health problem in developed countries.
M. canetti
is rare and seems to be limited to Africa, although a few cases have been seen in African emigrants.
M. microti
is mostly seen in immunodeficient people, although it is possible that the
prevalence
of this pathogen has been underestimated .
Other known pathogenic
mycobacteria
include
Mycobacterium leprae ,
Mycobacterium avium
and
M. kansasii . The last two are part of the
nontuberculous mycobacteria
(NTM) group. Nontuberculous mycobacteria cause neither TB nor
leprosy , but they
do
cause pulmonary diseases resembling TB.
Risk factors
Persons with
silicosis
have an approximately
30-fold
greater risk for developing TB.
Silica particles irritate the respiratory system, causing immunogenic responses such as
phagocytosis
which consequently results in high lymphatic vessel deposits.
It is this interference and blockage of
macrophage
function which increases the risk of tuberculosis.
Persons with chronic renal failure who are on hemodialysis also have an increased risk: 10—25 times greater than the general population. Persons with
diabetes mellitus
have a risk for developing active TB that is two to four times greater than persons without diabetes mellitus, and this risk is likely greater in persons with insulin-dependent or poorly controlled diabetes. Other clinical conditions that have been associated with active TB include
gastrectomy
with attendant weight loss and malabsorption, jejunoileal bypass, renal and cardiac transplantation, carcinoma of the head or neck, and other neoplasms (e.g., lung cancer, lymphoma, and leukemia).
Given that silicosis greatly increases the risk of tuberculosis, more research about the effect of various indoor or outdoor air pollutants on the disease would be necessary. Some possible indoor source of silica includes
paint ,
concrete
and
Portland cement . Crystalline silica is found in concrete, masonry, sandstone, rock, paint, and other abrasives. The cutting, breaking, crushing, drilling, grinding, or abrasive blasting of these materials may produce fine silica dust. It can also be in soil, mortar, plaster, and shingles. When you wear dusty clothing at home or in your car, you may be carrying silica dust that your family will breathe.
Low body weight is associated with risk of tuberculosis as well. A
body mass index
(BMI) below 18.5 increases the risk by 2—3 times. On the other hand, an increase in body weight lowers the risk.
Patients with
diabetes mellitus
are at increased risk of contracting tuberculosis, and they have a poorer response to treatment, possibly due to poorer drug absorption
Other conditions that increase risk include
IV drug abuse ; recent TB infection or a history of inadequately treated TB; chest X-ray suggestive of previous TB, showing fibrotic lesions and nodules; prolonged
corticosteroid
therapy and other immunosuppressive therapy; Immunocompromised patients (30-40% of AIDS patients in the world also have TB)
hematologic
and
reticuloendothelial
diseases, such as
leukemia
and
Hodgkin's disease;
end-stage kidney disease ; intestinal bypass; chronic
malabsorption
syndromes; vitamin D deficiency;
and low body weight
Twin studies
in the 1940s showed that susceptibility to TB was heritable. If one of a pair of twins got TB, then the other was more likely to get TB if he was identical than if he was not.
These findings were more recently confirmed by a series of studies in
South Africa . Specific gene polymorphisms in
IL12B
have been linked to tuberculosis susceptibility.
Some drugs, including
rheumatoid arthritis
drugs that work by blocking
tumor necrosis factor-alpha
(an inflammation-causing
cytokine ), raise the risk of activating a latent infection due to the importance of this cytokine in the immune defense against TB.
Mechanism
Transmission
When people suffering from active pulmonary TB cough, sneeze, speak, or spit, they expel infectious
aerosol µm
in diameter. A single sneeze can release up to 40,000 droplets. Each one of these droplets may transmit the disease, since the infectious dose of tuberculosis is very low and inhaling less than ten bacteria may cause an infection.
droplets 0.5 to 5
People with prolonged, frequent, or intense contact are at particularly high risk of becoming infected, with an estimated 22% infection rate. A person with active but untreated tuberculosis can infect 10–15 other people per year. Others at risk include people in areas where TB is common, people who inject drugs using unsanitary needles, residents and employees of high-risk congregate settings, medically under-served and low-income populations, high-risk racial or ethnic minority populations, children exposed to adults in high-risk categories, patients
immunocompromised
by conditions such as
HIV / AIDS , people who take immunosuppressant drugs, and health care workers serving these high-risk clients.
Transmission can only occur from people with active — not latent — TB  . The probability of transmission from one person to another depends upon the number of infectious droplets expelled by a carrier, the effectiveness of ventilation, the duration of exposure, and the
virulence
of the
M. tuberculosis
strain .
The chain of transmission can, therefore, be broken by isolating patients with active disease and starting effective anti-tuberculous therapy. After two weeks of such treatment, people with
non-resistant
active TB generally cease to be contagious. If someone does become infected, then it will take at least 21 days, or three to four weeks, before the newly infected person can transmit the disease to others. TB can also be transmitted by eating meat infected with TB.
Mycobacterium bovis
causes TB in cattle. (See details below.)
Pathogenesis
About 90% of those infected with
Mycobacterium tuberculosis
have
asymptomatic , latent TB infection (sometimes called LTBI), with only a 10% lifetime chance that a latent infection will progress to TB disease.
However, if untreated, the death rate for these active TB cases is more than 50%.
TB infection begins when the mycobacteria reach the
pulmonary alveoli , where they invade and replicate within the
endosomes
of alveolar
macrophages .
The primary site of infection in the lungs is called the
Ghon focus , and is generally located in either the upper part of the lower lobe, or the lower part of the
upper lobe. dendritic cells , which do not allow replication, although these cells can transport the bacilli to local ( mediastinal )
lymph nodes . Further spread is through the bloodstream to other tissues and organs where secondary TB lesions can develop in other parts of the lung (particularly the apex of the upper lobes), peripheral lymph nodes, kidneys, brain, and bone.
All parts of the body can be affected by the disease, though it rarely affects the
heart ,
skeletal muscles ,
pancreas
and
thyroid .
Bacteria are picked up by
Tuberculosis is classified as one of the
granulomatous
inflammatory conditions.
Macrophages ,
T lymphocytes ,
B lymphocytes
and
fibroblasts
are among the cells that aggregate to form a
granuloma , with
lymphocytes cytokines
such as
interferon gamma , which activates macrophages to destroy the bacteria with which they are infected. Cytotoxic T cells
can also directly kill infected cells, by secreting
perforin
and
granulysin .
surrounding the infected macrophages. The granuloma functions not only to prevent dissemination of the mycobacteria, but also provides a local environment for communication of cells of the immune system. Within the granuloma, T lymphocytes secrete
Importantly, bacteria are not always eliminated within the granuloma, but can become dormant, resulting in a latent infection
Another feature of the granulomas of human tuberculosis is the development of abnormal cell death, also called
necrosis , in the center of
tubercles . To the naked eye this has the texture of soft white cheese and was termed
caseous
necrosis .
If TB bacteria gain entry to the bloodstream from an area of damaged tissue they spread through the body and set up many foci of infection, all appearing as tiny white tubercles in the tissues. This severe form of TB disease is most common in infants and the elderly and is called
miliary tuberculosis . Patients with this disseminated TB have a fatality rate near 100% if untreated. However, If treated early, the fatality rate is reduced to near 10%.
In many patients the infection waxes and wanes. Tissue destruction and necrosis are balanced by healing and
fibrosis . Affected tissue is replaced by scarring and cavities filled with cheese-like white necrotic material. During active disease, some of these cavities are joined to the air passages
bronchi
and this material can be coughed up. It contains living bacteria and can therefore pass on infection. Treatment with appropriate
antibiotics
kills bacteria and allows healing to take place. Upon cure, affected areas are eventually replaced by scar tissue.
If untreated, infection with
Mycobacterium tuberculosis
can become
lobar pneumonia .
Diagnosis
For more details on this topic, see
Tuberculosis diagnosis .
Mycobacterium tuberculosis
(stained red) in sputum.
Tuberculosis is diagnosed definitively by identifying the causative organism ( Mycobacterium tuberculosis ) in a clinical sample (for example,
sputum
or
pus ). When this is not possible, a probable - although sometimes inconclusive
- diagnosis may be made using imaging (X-rays or scans) and/or a
tuberculin skin test (Mantoux test) .
The main problem with tuberculosis diagnosis is the difficulty in culturing this slow-growing organism in the laboratory (it may take 4 to 12 weeks for blood or sputum culture). A complete medical evaluation for TB must include a medical history, a physical examination, a
chest X-ray , microbiological smears, and cultures. It may also include a
tuberculin skin test , a
serological
test. The interpretation of the tuberculin skin test depends upon the person's risk factors for infection and progression to TB disease, such as exposure to other cases of TB or immunosuppression.
Currently, latent infection is diagnosed in a non-immunized person by a tuberculin skin test, which yields a delayed hypersensitivity type response to
an extract
made from
M. tuberculosis .
Those immunized for TB or with past-cleared infection will respond with delayed hypersensitivity parallel to those currently in a state of infection, so the test must be used with caution, particularly with regard to persons from countries where TB immunization is common.
Tuberculin tests have the disadvantage of producing false negatives, especially when the patient is
co-morbid
with
sarcoidosis , Hodgkins lymphoma, malnutrition, or most notably active tuberculosis disease
The newer interferon release assays (IGRAs) overcome many of these problems. IGRAs are
in vitro
blood tests that are more specific than the skin test. IGRAs detect the release of
interferon gamma
in response to mycobacterial proteins such as
ESAT-6 . These are not affected by immunization or
environmental mycobacteria , so generate fewer
false positive
results.
There is also evidence that the T-SPOT. TB
IGRA is more sensitive than the skin test [ . Diagnosis of TB has also been done with use of various radiotracers using nuclear medicine methods, which not only detects but also locates tubercular infection  .
New TB tests are being developed that offer the hope of cheap, fast and more accurate TB testing. These include
polymerase chain reaction
assays for the detection of bacterial DNA. The development of a rapid and inexpensive diagnostic test would be particularly valuable in the developing world. .
Prevention
Map showing the 22 high-burden countries (HBC) that according to WHO account for 80% of all new TB cases arising each year. The
Global Plan
is especially aimed at these countries.
TB prevention and control takes two parallel approaches. In the first, people with TB and their contacts are identified and then treated. Identification of infections often involves testing high-risk groups for TB. In the second approach, children are
vaccinated
to protect them from TB. No
vaccine
is available that provides reliable protection for adults. However, in tropical areas where the levels of other species of mycobacteria are high, exposure to
nontuberculous mycobacteria
gives some protection against TB.
The
World Health Organization
(WHO) declared TB a global health emergency in 1993, and the Stop TB Partnership developed a
Global Plan to Stop Tuberculosis
that aims to save 14 million lives between 2006 and 2015
Since humans are the only host of
Mycobacterium tuberculosis , eradication would be possible. This goal would be helped greatly by an effective vaccine.
Vaccines
Many countries use
Bacillus Calmette-Guérin
(BCG) vaccine as part of their TB control programmes, especially for infants. According to the WHO, this is the most often used vaccine worldwide, with 85% of infants in 172 countries immunized in 1993.
This was the first vaccine for TB and developed at the
Pasteur Institute
in France between 1905 and 1921.
However, mass vaccination with BCG did not start until after
World War II .
The protective efficacy of BCG for preventing serious forms of TB (e.g.
meningitis ) in children is greater than 80%; its protective efficacy for preventing pulmonary TB in adolescents and adults is variable, ranging from 0 to 80%.
In South Africa, the country with the highest prevalence of TB, BCG is given to all children under age three. prevalent ; therefore BCG is not given to the entire population in these countries. In the USA, for example, BCG vaccine is not recommended except for people who meet specific criteria:
However, BCG is less effective in areas where mycobacteria are less
Infants or children with negative skin test results who are continually exposed to untreated or ineffectively treated patients or will be continually exposed to
multidrug-resistant
TB.
Healthcare workers considered on an individual basis in settings in which a high percentage of MDR-TB patients has been found, transmission of MDR-TB is likely, and TB control precautions have been implemented and were not successful.
BCG provides some protection against severe forms of pediatric TB, but has been shown to be unreliable against adult pulmonary TB, which accounts for most of the disease burden worldwide. Currently, there are more cases of TB on the planet than at any other time in history and most agree there is an urgent need for a newer, more effective vaccine that would prevent all forms of TB—including drug resistant strains—in all age groups and among people with HIV.
Several new vaccines to prevent TB infection are being developed. The first
recombinant
tuberculosis
vaccine clinical trials
in the United States in 2004, sponsored by the
National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases
(NIAID).
A 2005 study showed that a
DNA TB vaccine
given with conventional
chemotherapy
can accelerate the disappearance of bacteria as well as protect against re-infection in mice; it may take four to five years to be available in humans. A very promising TB vaccine,
MVA85A , is currently in
phase II trials
in South Africa by a group led by
Oxford University ,
and is based on a genetically modified
vaccinia
virus. Many other strategies are also being used to develop novel vaccines,
including both
subunit vaccines
(fusion molecules composed of two
recombinant
proteins delivered in an
adjuvant ) such as Hybrid-1, HyVac4 or M72, and recombinant
adenoviruses
such as Ad35.
Some of these vaccines can be effectively administered without needles, making them preferable for areas where HIV is very common.
All of these vaccines have been successfully tested in humans and are now in extended testing in TB-endemic regions. To encourage further discovery, researchers and policymakers are promoting new economic models of vaccine development including prizes, tax incentives and
advance market commitments .
rBCG30, entered
Screening
Mantoux tuberculin skin test
Mantoux tuberculin skin tests
are often used for routine screening of high risk individuals. [ 78 ]
Interferon-γ release assays
are blood tests used in the diagnosis of some infectious diseases. There are currently two interferon-γ release assays available for the diagnosis of tuberculosis:
QuantiFERON-TB Gold
(licensed in US, Europe and Japan); and
T-SPOT.TB , a form of
ELISPOT
(licensed in Europe).
Chest photofluorography
has been used in the past for mass screening for tuberculosis.
Treatment
Main article:
Tuberculosis treatment
Treatment for TB uses
antibiotics
to kill the bacteria. Effective TB treatment is difficult, due to the unusual structure and chemical composition of the mycobacterial cell wall, which makes many antibiotics ineffective and hinders the entry of drugs.
The two antibiotics most commonly used are
rifampicin
and
isoniazid . However, instead of the short course of antibiotics typically used to cure other bacterial infections, TB requires much longer periods of treatment (around 6 to 24 months) to entirely eliminate mycobacteria from the body. Latent TB treatment usually uses a single antibiotic, while active TB disease is best treated with combinations of several antibiotics, to reduce the risk of the bacteria developing
antibiotic resistance .
People with latent infections are treated to prevent them from progressing to active TB disease later in life.
Drug resistant tuberculosis is transmitted in the same way as regular TB. Primary resistance occurs in persons who are infected with a resistant strain of TB. A patient with fully susceptible TB develops secondary resistance (acquired resistance) during TB therapy because of inadequate treatment, not taking the prescribed regimen appropriately, or using low quality medication.
Drug-resistant TB is a public health issue in many developing countries, as treatment is longer and requires more expensive drugs.
Multi-drug-resistant tuberculosis
(MDR-TB) is defined as resistance to the two most effective first-line TB drugs:
rifampicin
and
isoniazid .
Extensively drug-resistant TB
(XDR-TB) is also resistant to three or more of the six classes of second-line drugs.
The
DOTS
(Directly Observed Treatment Short-course) strategy of tuberculosis treatment recommended by WHO was based on clinical trials done in the 1970s by Tuberculosis Research Centre, Chennai, India. The country in which a person with TB lives can determine what treatment they receive. This is because multidrug-resistant tuberculosis is resistant to most first-line medications, the use second-line antituberculosis medications is necessary to cure the patient. However, the price of these medications is high; thus poor people in the developing world have no or limited access to these treatments.
Posted by
nanatyneneqah...
at
9:42:00 PM
1 comment:
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share to Pinterest
SINUSITIS
What are sinuses? Sinuses are the air chambers in the bone behind your cheeks, eyebrows and jaw. They make mucus, a fluid that cleans bacteria and other particles out of the air you breathe. Tiny hairs called cilia (say: “sill-ee-ah”) sweep mucus out of your sinuses so it can drain out through your nose.   What is sinusitis? Sinusitis (say: “sine-you-site-iss”) is the name for a condition in which the lining of your sinuses becomes inflamed.   FDA Warning The. U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) advises against the use of ear candles. Ear candles can cause serious injuries and there is no evidence to support their effectiveness. For more information, please visit the
FDA Web site .
What causes sinusitis?
Anything that causes swelling in your sinuses or keeps the cilia from moving mucus can cause sinusitis. This can occur because of changes in temperature or air pressure. Allergies can cause sinusitis. Using decongestant nasal sprays too much, smoking, swimming or diving can also increase your risk of getting sinusitis. Some people have growths called polyps (say: “pawl-ips”) that block their sinus passages and cause sinusitis.
When sinusitis is caused by a bacterial or viral infection, you get a sinus infection. Sinus infections sometimes occur after you’ve had a cold. The cold virus attacks the lining of your sinuses, causing them to swell and become narrow. Your body responds to the virus by producing more mucus, but it gets blocked in your swollen sinuses. This built-up mucus is a good place for bacteria to grow. The bacteria can cause a sinus infection.   What are the symptoms of sinusitis? The symptoms of sinusitis include: Pain or pressure in the forehead, cheeks, nose and between the eyes
Headache
Fever
Nasal congestion
Reduced sense of smell and taste
Cough, which may be worse at night
Bad breath (called halitosis)
An ache in the teeth
How is acute sinusitis treated? Treatment for sinusitis depends on the cause.
You can use a saline nasal spray, which will clean our your nasal passages and help clear congestion. Your doctor may recommend a prescription nasal spray that helps treat inflammation.
If you have sinus pain or pressure, your doctor may prescribe or recommend a decongestant to help your sinuses drain. Decongestants are generally only recommended for short-term use.
Over-the-counter pain relievers such as acetaminophen (one brand: Tylenol) and ibuprofen (some brands: Advil, Motrin) can ease headache and sinus pain.
If your case of sinusitis is very severe and your doctor thinks the cause is bacterial, he or she may prescribe an antibiotic. You may take an antibiotic for 10 to 14 days, but you will usually start feeling better a couple of days after you start taking it. It is important to take antibiotics exactly as your doctor tells you and to continue taking it until it is completely gone, even after you’re feeling better.
If allergies are causing your sinusitis, your doctor may treat the allergy. Then the sinusitis will usually clear up on its own.
See the box below for other things you can do to feel better when you have sinusitis.   Tips on taking care of sinusitis Get plenty of rest. Lying down can make your sinuses feel more stopped-up, so try lying on the side that lets you breathe the best. You can prop yourself up with a pillow.
Sip hot liquids and drink plenty of fluids.
Apply moist heat by holding a warm, wet towel against your face or breathing in steam through a cloth or towel. This will relieve sinus pressure and help open your sinus passages.
Talk with your doctor before using an over-the-counter cold medicine. Some cold medicines can make your symptoms worse or cause other problems.
Don’t use a nasal spray with a decongestant in it for more than 3 days. If you use it for more than 3 days, the swelling in your sinuses may get worse when you stop using the medicine.
Avoid alcohol, which can worsen swelling in the sinuses.
Posted by
nanatyneneqah...
at
9:31:00 PM
No comments:
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share to Pinterest
MIGRAINE
Migraine
is a
neurological
syndrome
characterized by altered bodily perceptions, severe
headaches , and
nausea . Physiologically, the
migraine headache
is a neurological condition more common to women than to men. The word
migraine
was borrowed from
Old French
migraigne
(originally as "megrim", but respelled in 1777 on a contemporary French model). The French term derived from a
vulgar
pronunciation of the
Late Latin
word
hemicrania , itself based on
Greek
hemikrania , from Greek roots for "half" and "skull".
The typical migraine headache is unilateral (affecting one half of the head) and pulsating, lasting from 4 to 72 hours; symptoms include
nausea ,
vomiting ,
photophobia
(increased sensitivity to light), and
phonophobia
Approximately one-third of people who suffer from migraine headaches perceive an
aura —unusual visual, olfactory, or other sensory experiences that are a sign that the migraine will soon occur.
(increased sensitivity to sound).
Initial treatment is with
analgesics
for the headache, an
antiemetic
for the nausea, and the avoidance of triggering conditions. The cause of migraine headache is
unknown ; the most common theory is a disorder of the
serotonergic
control system.
There are migraine headache variants, some originate in the
brainstem
(featuring intercellular transport dysfunction of calcium and potassium ions) and some are genetically disposed. Studies of twins indicate a 60 to 65 percent genetic influence upon their propensity to develop migraine headache.
Moreover, fluctuating hormone levels indicate a migraine relation: 75 percent of adult patients are women, although migraine affects approximately equal numbers of prepubescent boys and girls; propensity to migraine headache is known to disappear during pregnancy, although in some women migraines may become more frequent during pregnancy.
Classification
The
International Headache Society
(IHS) offers guidelines for the classification and diagnosis of migraine headaches, in a document called "The International Classification of Headache Disorders, 2nd edition" (ICHD-2). [ 12 ]
According to ICHD-2, there are seven subclasses of migraines (some of which include further subdivisions):
Migraine without aura , or
common migraine , involves migraine headaches that are not accompanied by an aura (visual disturbance, see below).
Migraine with aura
usually involves migraine headaches accompanied by an aura. Less commonly, an aura can occur without a headache, or with a non-migraine headache. Two other varieties are
Familial hemiplegic migraine
and
Sporadic hemiplegic migraine , in which a patient has migraines with aura and with accompanying motor weakness. If a close relative has had the same condition, it is called "familial", otherwise it is called "sporadic". Another variety is
basilar -type migraine , where a headache and aura are accompanied by
difficulty speaking ,
vertigo ,
ringing in ears , or a number of other brainstem-related symptoms, but not motor weakness.
Childhood periodic syndromes that are commonly precursors of migraine
include
cyclical vomiting
(occasional intense periods of vomiting),
abdominal migraine
(abdominal pain, usually accompanied by nausea), and
benign paroxysmal vertigo of childhood
(occasional attacks of vertigo).
Retinal migraine
involves migraine headaches accompanied by visual disturbances or even blindness in one eye.
Complications of migraine
describe migraine headaches and/or auras that are unusually long or unusually frequent, or associated with a seizure or brain lesion.
Probable migraine
describes conditions that have some characteristics of migraines but where there is not enough evidence to diagnose it as a migraine with certainty.
Signs and symptoms
The signs and symptoms of migraine vary among patients. Therefore, what a patient experiences before, during and after an attack cannot be defined exactly. The four phases of a migraine attack listed below are common but not necessarily experienced by all migraine sufferers. Additionally, the phases experienced and the symptoms experienced during them can vary from one migraine attack to another in the same person:
The
prodrome , which occurs hours or days before the headache.
The
aura , which immediately precedes the headache.
The
pain
phase, also known as headache phase.
The postdrome.
Prodrome phase
Prodromal symptoms occur in 40–60% of migraine sufferers. This phase may consist of altered mood, irritability,
depression
or
euphoria ,
fatigue ,
yawning , excessive sleepiness, craving for certain food (e.g.
chocolate ), stiff muscles (especially in the neck), hot ears, constipation or diarrhea, increased urination, and other visceral symptoms. These symptoms usually precede the headache phase of the migraine attack by several hours or days, and experience teaches the patient or observant family how to detect that a migraine attack is near.
Aura phase
For the 20–30%
of migraine sufferers who experience migraine with aura, this aura comprises focal neurological phenomena that precede or accompany the attack. They appear gradually over 5 to 20 minutes and generally last fewer than 60 minutes. The headache phase of the migraine attack usually begins within 60 minutes of the end of the aura phase, but it is sometimes delayed up to several hours, and it can be missing entirely (see
silent migraine ). Symptoms of migraine aura can be visual, sensory, or motor in nature.
Visual
aura
is the most common of the neurological events. There is a disturbance of vision consisting usually of unformed flashes of white and/or black or rarely of multicolored lights ( photopsia ) or formations of dazzling zigzag lines ( scintillating scotoma ; often arranged like the
battlements
of a castle, hence the alternative terms "fortification spectra" or "teichopsia" ). Some patients complain of blurred or shimmering or cloudy vision, as though they were looking through thick or
smoked glass , or, in some cases,
tunnel vision
and
hemianopsia . The
somatosensory
aura of migraine consists of digitolingual or cheiro-oral
paresthesias , a feeling of pins-and-needles experienced in the hand and arm as well as in the nose-mouth area on the same side. Paresthesia migrate up the arm and then extend to involve the face, lips and tongue.
Other symptoms of the aura phase can include auditory, gustatory or olfactory hallucinations, temporary
dysphasia ,
vertigo , tingling or numbness of the face and extremities, and hypersensitivity to touch.
Oliver Sacks 's book
Migraine
describes "migrainous deliria" as a result of such intense migraine aura that it is indistinguishable from "free-wheeling states of hallucinosis, illusion, or dreaming."
Visual symptoms of migraine aura
Enhancements reminiscent of a zigzag fort structure
Negative scotoma, loss of awareness of local structures
Positive scotoma, local perception of additional structures
Mostly one-sided loss of perception
Pain phase
The typical migraine headache is unilateral, throbbing, and moderate to severe and can be aggravated by physical activity. Not all these features are necessary. The pain may be bilateral at the onset or start on one side and become generalized, and usually it alternates sides from one attack to the next. The onset is usually gradual. The pain peaks and then subsides and usually lasts 4 to 72 hours in adults and 1 to 48 hours in children. The frequency of attacks is extremely variable, from a few in a lifetime to several a week, and the average sufferer experiences one to three headaches a month. The head pain varies greatly in intensity.
The pain of migraine is invariably accompanied by other features.
Nausea
occurs in almost 90 percent of patients, and vomiting occurs in about one third of patients. Many patients experience sensory hyperexcitability manifested by
photophobia ,
phonophobia , and
osmophobia
and seek a dark and quiet room. Blurred vision, delirium, nasal stuffiness, diarrhea,
polyuria ,
pallor , or sweating may be noted during the headache phase. There may be localized
edema
of the scalp or face, scalp tenderness, prominence of a vein or artery in the temple, or stiffness and tenderness of the neck. Impairment of concentration and mood are common. The extremities tend to feel cold and moist.
Vertigo
may be experienced; a variation of the typical migraine, called
vestibular migraine , has also been described. Lightheadedness, rather than true vertigo, [ citation needed ]
and a feeling of faintness may occur.
Postdrome phase
The patient may feel tired or "hungover" and have head pain, cognitive difficulties, gastrointestinal symptoms, mood changes, and weakness. According to one summary, "Some people feel unusually refreshed or euphoric after an attack, whereas others note depression and
malaise ."
Triggers
A migraine trigger is any factor that, on exposure or withdrawal, leads to the development of an acute migraine headache. Triggers may be categorized as behavioral, environmental, infectious, dietary, chemical, or hormonal. In the medical literature, these factors are known as 'precipitants.'
The
MedlinePlus Medical Encyclopedia , for example, offers the following list of migraine triggers:
Migraine attacks may be triggered by:
Allergic reactions
Bright lights, loud noises, and certain odors or perfumes
Physical or emotional
stress
Changes in
sleep patterns
Smoking
or exposure to smoke
Skipping meals
Alcohol
Menstrual cycle
fluctuations,
birth control pills , hormone fluctuations during the
menopause
transition
Tension headaches
Foods containing
tyramine
(red wine, aged cheese, smoked fish, chicken livers, figs, and some beans),
monosodium glutamate
(MSG) or
nitrates
(like bacon, hot dogs, and salami)
Other foods such as chocolate, nuts, peanut butter, avocado, banana, citrus, onions, dairy products, and fermented or pickled foods.
long exposures to light from computer screen, video screens, and tv.
–
MedlinePlus medical encyclopedia Sometimes the migraine occurs with no apparent "cause". The trigger theory supposes that exposure to various environmental factors precipitates, or triggers, individual migraine episodes. Migraine patients have long been advised to try to identify personal headache triggers by looking for associations between their headaches and various suspected trigger factors and keeping a
migraine journal
recording migraine incidents and diet to look for
correlations
in order to avoid trigger foods. It must be mentioned, that some trigger factors are quantitative in nature, e.g., a small block of dark chocolate may not cause a migraine, but half a slab of dark chocolate almost definitely will, in a susceptible person. In addition, being exposed to more than one trigger factor simultaneously will more likely cause a migraine, than a single trigger factor in isolation, e.g., drinking and eating various known dietary trigger factors on a hot, humid day, when feeling stressed and having had little sleep will probably result in a migraine in a susceptible person, but consuming a single trigger factor on a cool day, after a good night's rest with minimal environmental stress may mean that the sufferer will not develop a migraine after all. Nightmares or Traumatic Dreams may also be recorded as migraine triggers. Migraines can be complex to avoid, but keeping an accurate migraine diary and making suitable lifestyle changes can have a very positive effect on the sufferer's quality of life. Some trigger factors are virtually impossible to avoid, e.g. the weather or emotions, but by limiting the avoidable trigger factors, the unavoidable ones may have less of an impact on the sufferer.
Food and Drink
Many migraine sufferers report reduced incidence of migraines due to identifying and avoiding their individual dietary triggers. However, more studies are needed.
Gluten
One food elimination that has proven to reduce or eliminate migraines in a percentage of patients is
gluten . For those with (often undiagnosed)
celiac disease
or other forms of gluten sensitivity, migraines may be a symptom of gluten intolerance. One study found that migraine sufferers were ten times more likely than the general population to have celiac disease, and that a gluten-free diet eliminated or reduced migraines in these patients
Another study of 10 patients with a long history of chronic headaches that had recently worsened or were resistant to treatment found that all 10 patients were sensitive to gluten. MRI scans determined that each had inflammation in their central nervous systems caused by gluten-sensitivity. Seven out of nine of these patients that went on a gluten-free diet stopped having headaches completely.
Aspartame
While some people believe that
aspartame
triggers migraines, and anecdotal evidence is present, this has not been medically proven.
MSG
MSG is frequently reported as a dietary trigger (12%). In a placebo-controlled trial,
monosodium glutamate
(MSG) in large doses (2.5 grams) taken on an empty stomach was associated with adverse symptoms including headache more often than was
placebo .
However another trial found no effect when 3.5g of MSG was given with food.
Tyramine
The National Headache Foundation has a specific list of triggers based on the tyramine theory, detailing allowed, with caution and avoid triggers. However, a 2003 review article concluded that there was no scientific evidence for an effect of tyramine on migraine.
Other
A 2005
literature review
found that the available information about dietary trigger factors relies mostly on the subjective assessments of patients. Some suspected dietary trigger factors appear to genuinely promote or precipitate migraine episodes, but many other suspected dietary triggers have never been demonstrated to trigger migraines. The review authors found that alcohol,
caffeine withdrawal , and missing meals are the most important dietary migraine precipitants, that
dehydration
deserved more attention, and that some patients report sensitivity to red wine. Little or no evidence associated notorious suspected triggers like chocolate, cheese,
histamine ,
tyramine
or nitrites with migraines. However, the review authors also note that while general dietary restriction has not been demonstrated to be an effective migraine therapy, it is beneficial for the individual to avoid what has been a definite cause of the migraine.
Weather
Several studies have found some migraines are triggered by changes in weather. One study noted 62% of the subjects thought weather was a factor but only 51% were sensitive to weather changes.
Among those whose migraines did occur during a change in weather, the subjects often picked a weather change other than the actual weather data recorded. Most likely to trigger a migraine were, in order:
Temperature mixed with humidity. High humidity plus high or low temperature was the biggest cause.
Significant changes in weather
Changes in
barometric pressure
Another study examined the effects of warm
chinook winds
on migraines, with many patients reporting increased incidence of migraines immediately before and/or during the chinook winds. The number of people reporting migrainous episodes during the chinook winds was higher on high-wind chinook days. The probable cause was thought to be an increase in positive
ions
in the air.
Other
One study found that for some people who suffer from migraine in India, washing hair in a bath was a migraine trigger. The triggering effect also had to do with how the hair was later dried.
Strong fragrances have also been identified as potential triggers, and some sufferers report an increased sensitivity to scent as an aura effect.
Pathophysiology
Migraines were once thought to be initiated exclusively by problems with
blood vessels . The vascular theory of migraines is now considered secondary to brain dysfunction
and claimed to have been discredited by others.
Trigger points
can be at least part of the cause, and perpetuate most kinds of headaches.
The effects of migraine may persist for some days after the main headache has ended. Many sufferers report a sore feeling in the area where the migraine was, and some report impaired thinking for a few days after the headache has passed.
A
melanopsin -based receptor has been linked to the association between light sensitivity and migraine pain.
Depolarization theory
Animation of
cortical spreading depression.
A phenomenon known as
cortical spreading depression
can cause migraines. [ 40 ]
In
cortical spreading depression ,
neurological activity
is depressed over an area of the
cortex
of the brain. This situation results in the release of
inflammatory
mediators leading to irritation of
cranial nerve
roots, most particularly the
trigeminal nerve , which conveys the sensory information for the face and much of the head.
This view is supported by
neuroimaging
techniques, which appear to show that migraine is primarily a disorder of the brain (neurological), not of the blood vessels (vascular). A spreading depolarization (electrical change) may begin 24 hours before the attack, with onset of the headache occurring around the time when the largest area of the brain is depolarized. A study in 2007, using the
Positron Emission Tomography
(PET) technique identified the
hypothalamus
as being critically involved in the early stages. [ 41 ]
Vascular theory
Migraines can begin when
blood vessels
in the brain contract and expand inappropriately. This may start in the occipital lobe, in the back of the brain, as arteries spasm. The reduced flow of blood from the occipital lobe triggers the aura that some individuals who have migraines experience because the visual cortex is in the occipital area.
When the constriction stops and the
blood vessels
dilate, they become too wide. The once solid walls of the blood vessels become permeable and some fluid leaks out. This leakage is recognized by pain receptors in the
blood vessels
of surrounding tissue. In response, the body supplies the area with chemicals which cause inflammation. With each heart beat, blood passes through this sensitive area causing a throb of pain.
The vascular theory of migraines is now seen as secondary to brain dysfunction.
Serotonin theory
Serotonin
is a type of neurotransmitter, or "communication chemical" which passes messages between nerve cells. It helps to control mood, pain sensation, sexual behaviour, sleep, as well as dilation and constriction of the blood vessels among other things. Low
serotonin
levels in the brain may lead to a process of constriction and dilation of the blood vessels which trigger a migraine.
Triptans
activate serotonin receptors to stop a migraine attack.
Neural theory
When certain nerves or an area in the
brain stem
become irritated, a migraine begins. In response to the irritation, the body releases chemicals which cause inflammation of the blood vessels. These chemicals cause further irritation of the nerves and blood vessels and results in pain.
Substance P
is one of the substances released with first irritation. Pain then increases because substance P aids in sending pain signals to the brain.
Unifying theory
Both vascular and neural influences cause migraines.
stress triggers changes in the brain
these changes cause serotonin to be released
blood vessels constrict and dilate
chemicals including substance P irritate nerves and blood vessels causing
neurogenic inflammation
and pain
Posted by
nanatyneneqah...
at
9:27:00 PM
No comments:
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share to Pinterest
Newer Posts
Older Posts
Home
Subscribe to:
Posts (Atom)
WELCOME....
time is GOLD..
Calendar
visitor..
free counter
chat..
Shoutbox
by
ngai.cc
Followers
Blog Archive
▼
2010
(19)
►
September
(1)
▼
August
(18)
WRITING (ENGLISH)
TUBERCULOSIS
SINUSITIS
MIGRAINE
BREAST CANCER
CATARACT
MOUTH ULCER
SYNDROME DOWN
EPISTAXIS
DENGUE FEVER
CONJUNCTIVITIS
RHEUMATOID ARTHRITIS
LUNG CANCER
HEPATITIS C
MUET ASSIGNMENT
ACNE
SICKLE CELL ANEMIA
OBESITY
about us
nanatyneneqah...
nana:
-funny and
skinny girl
atyn:
-like reading
love novel
neneq: -has a beautiful hair
pieqa:
-alwayz make jokes
View my complete profile
Awesome Inc. template. Powered by
Blogger .