ADVENTURES IN 3-D (1953) – ComicDate
ADVENTURES IN 3-D (1953)
Aus ComicDate
Wechseln zu:
Navigation ,
Suche
HARVEY PUBLICATIONS : No. 1 - 2 (1954) | Location: FREI-AR-03-A
Issues 1, 2
1 ( NOSTRAND, HOWARD -,
POWELL, BOB -art)(original glasses missing)
Von „ http://www.comicdate.com/index.php?title=ADVENTURES_IN_3-D_(1953) “
Kategorien :
HARVEY PUBLICATIONS
|
1953
|
NOSTRAND, HOWARD
|
POWELL, BOB
|
3-D COMIC
About us
News
Blog
Help!
Meine Werkzeuge
Anmelden / Benutzerkonto erstellen
Namensräume
Seite
Diskussion
Varianten
Ansichten
Lesen
Quelltext anzeigen
Versionsgeschichte
Aktionen
Suche
Navigation
Hauptseite
Gemeinschafts-Portal
Aktuelle Ereignisse
Letzte Änderungen
Zufällige Seite
Hilfe
Werkzeuge
Links auf diese Seite
Änderungen an verlinkten Seiten
Spezialseiten
Druckversion
Permanenter Link
Diese Seite wurde zuletzt am 15. Oktober 2011 um 15:51 Uhr geändert.
Diese Seite wurde bisher 3.436-mal abgerufen.
Datenschutz
Über ComicDate
Impressum
Cover scans are are from a comic strip, webcomic or from the cover or (in very view cases) interior of a comic book. The copyright for
images are most likely owned by either the publisher of the comic or the writer(s) and/or artist(s) which produced the comic in question.
Copyright notices
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:WikiProject_Comics/copyright
DC/Wildstorm
All
DC
Comics and/or
Wildstorm
characters and the distinctive likeness(es) thereof are trademarks of and copyright DC Comics and/or WildStorm Productions, an imprint of DC Comics. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. (Some
Vertigo
Comics and
Wildstorm
publications are not copyright to DC but to the creators in question, DC maintains a list of such exceptions
here . It is believed this list may not be exhaustive, and it is best to check the
indicia
of the comic book or graphic novel in question.)
All  Charlton Comics  characters and the distinctive likeness(es) thereof were originally Trademarks & Copyright © 1944-1983 Charlton Publications. The characters and the distinctive likeness(es) thereof were acquired by  DC Comics  in 1983 and are Trademarks & Copyright © 1983-today DC Comics, Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
Marvel
All  Marvel  characters and the distinctive likeness(es) thereof are Trademarks & Copyright © 1941-today Marvel Characters, Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
Dark Horse
Artwork published by
Dark Horse Comics, Inc. , characters and their distinctive likenesses are trademarks of and copyright the respective
Licensor . ( Dark Horse Comics  publications tend not to be copyright to Dark Horse but to the creators or licensors in question. It is important the copyright is correctly attributed)
Image Comics
All
Image Comics
characters are trademarks of and copyright 2008 Image Comics or their respective owners.
2000 AD
[ http://www.2000adonline.com
2000 AD] and ''Character's Name'' copyright Rebellion A/S 2010.
Other copyright owner
If you are the copyright holder of material listed on comicDate, please feel free to contact us. If you disagree that we publish material on this wiki, we will remome the material from this site. Otherwise, we would like to include as a copyright note. Thank you.