Bob Downes:
“Electric City” LP | Turn Off The Radio
Turn Off The Radio
YOU CAN’T ALWAYS GET WHAT YOU WANT
(but sometimes you get what you need)
Bob Downes:
“Electric City” LP
When I first saw this album, I hadn’t heard of
Bob Downes
previously, but I was immediately drawn to the bizarre, colourful cover art. Sometimes it’s easy to pick a winner.
A split second later, I noticed that it was a
Vertigo
LP, a gatefold, an original “ swirl ” label LP… I snatched it.
There are several notable tracks on Electric City – Side A alone carries enough weight to outclass the majority of contender LPs. For example, “No Time Like The Present” sets off the LP complete w/ funky guitar, great horns, and full-body breakdowns. Next is “Keep Off The Grass” – a nervous sounding afrojazzrock mash-up. This track gets seriously smokin’ with oddball scat vocals tossed in with the groovy flute at high velocity. Following in line, “Don’t Let Tomorrow Get You Down” keeps things moving with hard percussion and a funky bass line. “Dawn Until Dawn” is an outstanding jazzy number with an ominous repetitive horn stab and a crispy beat.
Unfortunately, the players do seem to get a bit over-zealous in a few instances. At times the cohesion of the grooves created are muddled and forgotten and the music becomes spastically hectic. While these moments can detract from the listening experience, the high points of this LP greatly outweigh the low.
Overall, this album is a really well put together package. The LP cover is beautiful and confusing and interesting.
And, as if looks aren’t enough, the band and supporting cast play with such vigor and precision that whether you like it or not, you are nearly forced to respect if not enjoy the music. This is a rare and sought-after piece of jazzrock history. Pick it up if you see it – Bob and friends will not disappoint you.
Recently, a friend suggested I break my 2nd copy to increase its rarity. I considered it for a second or two… (**)
(**) Liar’s Radio does not condone destroying vinyl LPs.
Share this: Share Twitter Facebook Like this: Like
Loading...
Related
About this entry
You’re currently reading “Bob Downes:
“Electric City” LP,” an entry on Turn Off The Radio
Published:
September 17, 2010 / 9:48 am
Category:
D.I.T.C. ,
LP Reviews
Tags:
Bob Downes ,
breaks ,
dj ,
drums ,
flute ,
fusion ,
jazz ,
jazzrock ,
open music ,
psych ,
rare ,
rare groove ,
rock ,
samples ,
soul ,
swirl ,
Vertigo
1 Comment
Jump to comment form
|
comment rss [?]
|
trackback uri
[?]
young
9.17.10 / 10pm
niceeeeee
Reply
Leave a Reply
Cancel reply
Enter your comment here...
Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:
Email
(required)
(Address never made public)
Name
(required)
Website
You are commenting using your WordPress.com account.
(  Log Out  /  Change  )
You are commenting using your Twitter account.
(  Log Out  /  Change  )
You are commenting using your Facebook account.
(  Log Out  /  Change  )
You are commenting using your Google+ account.
(  Log Out  /  Change  )
Cancel
Connecting to %s
Notify me of new comments via email.
About
Welcome to “ TURN OFF THE RADIO ” presented by Liar’s Radio
We play vinyl records…
The blues, heavy psychedelic blues, Christian bayou blues, Shankar and sitar beats, the Beatles and the Stones, rare (“sought after”) gems, WLP, French, Library, freakbeat, biker, MOD, garage, surf, aCiD, psych, doom rock, krautrock, raga rock, space rock, new wave, Bowie,
spirit rock, prog & horn rock, fusion, jazz, souljazz, jazzfunk, dazz, disco, Italo, blaxploitation, SOUL, funk, funky reggae, Afro-beat, Afro-Cuban,
the Latin, Brazilian, electro, downtempo instrumentals, neo-soul, hip-hop, underground hip-hop, old school hip-hop, “old school”, De La, doubles, breaks, DITC secret-beats, samples, OGs, OST, MONO, LPs & EPs, 12″s, 45rpm 7inches, soundtracks, meditational hymns, Axelrod, Still Sealed soundscapes, experimental…
It’s not a dance party.
Turn off LIAR’S RADIO.
Feed your head instead.
Liar's Radio
Share this: Share Twitter Facebook Like this: Like
Loading...
Related
Recently
03.13 Yasiin Gaye (The Departure) – Mos Def vs. Marvin Gaye
09.09 Gummy Soul vs. Souls Of Mischief – ’93 Still
05.28 Hofmann’s Potion
06.28 Action Bronson – “blue chips”
06.25 CYCLE CHIC SOCIAL (Vancouver) – June 29, 2012
06.20 Alchemist x Curren$y – “covert coup instrumentals”
06.13 Official Roots Picnic 2012 Mixtape (DJ Low Budget)
06.12 A Group Called Smith – “Baby It’s You”
05.15 Grateful Doom
04.16 Liar’s Radio:
“RECORD SALE DAY!”
Categories
Categories
1. Listen To LIAR'S RADIO !!
7" (45rpm)
BOLLYWOOD
Comedy
D.I.T.C.
D.I.Y. Tools Etc.
dj
FUNK
FUNK/SOUL
HIP HOP
JAZZ
Liar's Radio Promo CD Tracklistings
LIBRARY
LP Reviews
Mixtapes
MOD/FREAKBEAT
Past Events
PSYCH
Record Stores (Vancouver, BC)
ROCK
SOUL
SOUNDTRACK (OST)
The Breaks
Vancouver BC
Vinyl Galleries
Blog at WordPress.com . |
The Hemingway Theme .
Entries RSS
Comments RSS
Follow
Follow “Turn Off The Radio”
Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.
Join 640 other followers
Build a website with WordPress.com
%d
bloggers like this: