The NEW 52: Dial H #1 | Examiner.com
Skip to main content
Report this ad
In Arts & Entertainment:
Celebrity Pop Culture Books Music Movies
Facebook Twitter Google Plus Search
Arts & Entertainment
Animation
See also:
Comic Books
DC Comics
China Mieville
The NEW 52: Dial H #1
Use your
key for the next article Next:
Comic book review: Dial H #1
May 14, 2012
3:20 PM MST
Facebook
Twitter
Pinterest
Linkedin
Google Plus
Comment
DC Comics DC Comics
View all
5 photos
Dial H #1 (2012)
Rating: Star 5 Star Star Star Star
DC's
NEW 52 just got newer—sort of.
In September
DC
revitalized their entire universe on the cusp of the 2011 blockbuster event
Flashpoint .
Flash-forward eight months later, after the first bouts of cancellations, six new serials were poised to take their spots—one of which being,
Dial H .
DC Comics
Dial H for Hero
has bit into the
DC Universe
a couple of times now.
One of which being in the 1980’s where it hopped around for a bit as a crossover in several
DC
magazines such as:
The Legion of Super-Heroes ,
Adventure Comics ,
The New Adventures of Superboy , and
Superman .
And, most noticeably, a short-lived run in 2003 titled
H.E.R.O. , which only ran for twenty-two issues.
The premise of the
Dial H for Hero
franchise is as follows: a mysterious and magical telephone booth transforms the ‘boothee’ into a random superhero upon the condition that they dial ‘4376,’ otherwise represented as the word ‘HERO.’
China Mieville
begins by introducing readers to
Dial H’s
titular character,
Nelse —an overweight, late twenty something, struggling in a city that eats up slackers and do-gooders all the same.
Nelse
is bickering with his friend
Darren
when he finally stomps off to leave
Nelse
to his invitational-only pity party.
In a pang of guilt
Nelse
chases after his buddy to only catch up with him as he is being mugged.
Trying to get to a telephone to dial for help he stumbles into a phone booth and in a panic dials a number—any number—and suddenly
Nelse
transforms into— Boy Chimney !
Boy Chimney
is a macabre, Jack Skellington-esque character whose powers include: increased reflexes and speed, poison gas, smoke manipulation, bullet-proof skin, smoked-based clairvoyance, and transportation by smoke.
Mateus Santolouco’s
rendering of
Boy Chimney
was superb, and the pages including the unusual hero were my favorite of the issue.
After saving his friend and taking him to the hospital,
Boy Chimney
collapses back to
Nelse
upon a rooftop in
Littleton
and begins piecing together the last few hours of events.
The issue then peaks as
Nelse
finds out that his hospitalized friend has been conducting some illegal business on the side, owes money to some very nasty individuals, and that is the truth to why he was roughed-up in the first place.
In an effort to protect his friend,
Nelse
heads back to the phone booth and transforms yet again, except under the guise of
Captain Lachrymose !—an emo clad hero that draws upon the most traumatic events of a person’s life for strength and power.
Dial H
definitely has a very strong
Vertigo
vibe to it, which translates well.
There is a slight reference to the
Green Lantern , but other than that
Dial H
feels completely outside of mainstream
DC Universe .
The plot is excellently composed and will hopefully catch the subscription piles of readers.
Santolouco’s
art is gritty and dark;
Littleton
almost has a ‘what-if’
Gotham City
had no
Batman
kind of an atmosphere to it, so the more eccentric and morally ambiguous heroes such as
Boy Chimney
and
Captain Lachrymose
fit in perfectly.
I give
Dial H #1
four-and-a-half stars out of five and the Schultz must-read stamp of approval.
Pick up your copy today at
Merlyn’s Sci-fi and Fantasy Shop
in downtown Spokane along with
DC’s
other new releases which will be spilling out there shelves throughout the month of May.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
You can follow Anthony Schultz on
Facebook ,
Twitter ,
Chime.In , or
LinkedIn
by clicking any one of the aforementioned social media sites and subscribing to his feeds.
Also, for more content by Anthony visit his website,
Idiosyncratic Wit , at Wordpress (dot) com, or his comic book blog,
The Martian Manhunter .
Suggested
Links
Vertigo Comics relaunch recap
The NEW 52: Week 4 Wrap-Up
The NEW 52: Week 3 Wrap-Up
The NEW 52: Week 2 Wrap-Up
The NEW 52: Week 1 Wrap-Up
Report this content
Share
this article
Facebook
Twitter
Pinterest
Linkedin
Google Plus
Comment
Comments
Anthony Schultz Spokane Comic Books Examiner Anthony Schultz is comic book, movie, and book aficionado, and enjoys spending his free time by furthering his inner pannapictagraphist by completing his Martian Manhunter and Orange Lantern collections.
As a Spokannite and native of Washington State Anthony spends his off hours with family, friends, and his Wookiee of a Daschund, Norman.
He publishes regularly on Amazon and Word Press and can be reached at all hours at
Peabody99224@Netscape.net .
Anthony also contributes to CBS Local, and can be read
here . Facebook
Twitter
Contact me
Featured
Video
Related
stories
Top 10 English Dubbed Anime
They Grow up so fast-ish.
Review of The Last: Naruto the Movie
Top 10 scariest cartoons of all time
Top 5 Story arcs in the Gintama Anime
Eight Smartest Heroes in the Marvel Universe
Arts & Entertainment
highlights
Camera
Check out some of the sexiest women on the music scene right now When it comes to music, there are some very hot performers with some simply amazing talent working in the industry. From their looks to their personalities and their style, the industry has some of...
Russell Brand slams Katy Perry’s ‘vapid’ celeb lifestyle in new documentary Russell Brand despised living in the spotlight while he was married to Katy Perry. The 40-year-old comedian is coming clean about his 14-month marriage to the pop superstar in new documentary, ...
Next
Article
Comic book review: Dial H #1
Report this ad
POPULAR
in ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT
Boy George Prince bombshell didn’t halt ‘The Voice’
'Alaska: The Last Frontier': Atz Lee seriously hurt but makes 'not guilty' plea
Boy George Prince shocker: ‘I’ve slept with Prince’ bombshell halts ‘The Voice’
'The X Factor' U.K. 2015 Episode 15: Louisa Johnson and Seann Miley Moore excel
Jessa Seewald causes speculation she could be having twins with latest pic
Raven-Symone's firing petitioned by several thousand 'The View' viewers
Jason Thompson to exit ‘General Hospital,’ but what about Dr. Drake?
Russell Brand slams Katy Perry’s ‘vapid’ celeb lifestyle in new documentary
Gwen Stefani, Blake Shelton spotted holding hands on Halloween
'Alaska: The Last Frontier': That's just too much information
TRENDING
on EXAMINER.COM
Senior Lab appears as if he has been crying after surrendered by his family
Boy George Prince bombshell didn’t halt ‘The Voice’
Ben Carson completely embarrassed by atheist Richard Dawkins, he's a 'disgrace'
NASA releases first images of Cassini's dive through the geyser of Enceladus
Viral photo of Saudi dog carrying a newborn baby to nearby house
14-year-old dog watches her family as they leave her behind at Miami shelter
Colorado Springs shooting spree: Gunman kills 3 on street before being shot dead
Jeffrey and Jeanette Navin bodies found: Son, 27, charged in Connecticut deaths
Sad ending for German shepherd found hanging by his neck in truck in viral photo
Emaciated dog in disturbing viral social media photo fighting for her life
Report this ad
Report this ad
Facebook
Twitter
Linkedin
Google+
Pinterest
Company Links
About us
OnTopic custom content
The Rowdy
Advertise with us
Sitemap
Examiner.com Entertainment
| AXS Network | © 2006-2015 AXS Digital Group LLC d/b/a
Examiner.com |
Privacy Policy
|
Terms of Use
|
About us
Choose a Topic
Arts & Entertainment Arts & Entertainment Music Movies TV Arts & Exhibits Performing Arts Reality TV Celebrity Pop Culture Animation Young Adult Fiction Books Movie Reviews Comic Books AXS Entertainment AXS Entertainment Music Movies TV Arts & Exhibits Performing Arts NFL NHL MLB NBA Fight Sports Soccer Recreational Sports Reality TV Music Festivals News News Top News International News Strange News Science & Space Politics Elections Environment Extreme Weather Government Crime & Courts Business & Finance Same-Sex Marriage Small Business Stock Market Gun Control Global Warming Personal Finance Democrat Republican Political Buzz Marketing and PR Immigration Life Life Home & Living Pets Style & Fashion Family & Parenting Health & Fitness Education Religion & Spirituality Weight Loss & Dieting Weddings Gardening Home Improvement Relationships Green Living Nutrition Neighborhoods Careers & Workplace Sales & Deals Healthcare Jobs Hobbies Leisure Leisure Food & Drink Travel Spa & Beauty Autos & Motorcycles Bars & Clubs Recipes Drinks Budget Travel DIY Mechanic Auto Reviews Natural Beauty Luxury Travel Makeup Hair & Nails Sports Sports MLB NFL NBA NHL Soccer Fight Sports Recreational Sports College Sports General Sports Fantasy Sports Motorsports Hunting & Fishing Hiking Camping Running Equestrian Water Sports Action Sports Endurance Sports Recreation Tech Tech Gadgets & Tech Video Games Internet Tech Gear Tablets iPhone Google Glass Wearable Tech Xbox One Playstation 4 Photography MMOGs Handheld Games Facebook Anonymous Social Media Consoles Bitcoin Google Twitter Video Log In / Register Write for Us
Search