Why I Hate Saturn | Defending Regicide
but I be knowing the schemes
Search
Defending Regicide
All About Me
RSS
Tag Archives: Why I Hate Saturn
Comics Worth Avoiding: Piranha Press
24
Jan
I have a confession to make: I never really liked
Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles.
I got into the comic book around 1987 because I had a crush on some girl who was into it. Wanting to impress her, I made an investment of time and money (the former mine, the latter my parents’) to get the first four trade editions of the comics and become an expert overnight. There were aspects I enjoyed, such as the unsubtle
satire
of Marvel Comics’ writing and the fact that it was independently-produced, but by and large I felt it was boring. The only thing oddball about the series, in comic book terms, was the title. The characters went through the same one-dimensional
foibles
and well-timed action scenes as any other dumb superhero book on the market, and did it worse than a lot them besides. But for an excuse to hang around this girl, I got into the
Turtles
and acted like a devoted fan. We even assumed the characters’ monikers as our nicknames: I think she was Donatello, I was
Raphael.
The massive popularity of the
Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles
and the industry-wide shit storm that followed has been
well-documented
and opined upon. I don’t want to do that. I want to relate my memories of the time, and to my recollection, virtually all of that black-and-white comics shit was
awful.
In the wake of the
Turtles’
direct market success were dozens if not hundreds of sub-par, cheapo action comics, seemingly written by retards and drawn by spastics. I remember a direct
Turtles’
knock-off about radioactive hamsters or something, a third-rate parody of second-rate satire. I recall a comic with the tantalizing title of
Reagan’s Raiders.
I didn’t take any of this shit seriously, and neither did anyone I knew. Maybe I was a little too young to appreciate this crummy renaissance of underground
comix,
and it was all enjoying robust sales and positive critique among the older high school crowd. But the prepubescent set that I ran with thought the black-and-white comic books revolution was a load of bullshit.
Even worse than these black-and-white action comics were the black-and-white “artsy” comics, each attempting to emulate
American Splendor
in its own way, most of them falling well short of that relatively attainable goal. If we weren’t buying
Hamster Vice,
we sure as fuck weren’t going to check out some girl’s maudlin poem framed by a bunch of doodles she made while chatting on the telephone. It was just a lot of garbage that got play during a brief sliver of time when speculating on comic book collecting was profitable and trendy. And that’s where I remember
Piranha Press
stepped in, DC Comics’ answer to the unasked question that was the chaotic landscape of comic books in the late 1980s. Again, someone more knowledgeable and capable than I can detail the wherefores and particulars of how the imprint began. I was only familiar with the title because (as mentioned
before ) my father worked in comic books and brought home every Marvel and DC title, every week. That meant I was taking crap like
Secret Wars II
and
Piranha Press
titles along with the
Batman.
Like I say, I don’t know the specifics behind how
Piranha Press
began, but I can guess that it was DC’s attempt to
exploit
the burgeoning black-and-white comics market. They probably appointed someone
eccentric
to head it up, and he hired a bunch of his friends, regardless of their talent and acumen. What resulted was a sporadic but runny stream of shit that spewed forth from DC like a million continuity reboots. DC was enjoying some great success in the adult comics market with graphic novels like
Watchmen
and
The Dark Knight Returns,
yet the stuff coming from its “funny books for
folks
what don’t like funny books” line was the most puerile, forgettable claptrap. There was a series called
Gregory
by Marc Hempel that was a study in wasting the reader’s time. And there was this ridiculous series called
Beautiful Stories for Ugly Children
that featured these rejects from a introductory creative writing class printed alongside grotesque–and possibly well-rendered–pen and wash drawings, however you couldn’t tell how good they might be because the black-and-white pulp printing turned them into featureless grey smudges. And I was ostensibly getting copies
direct
from the printer, not handled and shuffled around by some distributor or store owner. I’m guessing the hapless fools who actually purchased copies of
Beautiful Stories for Ugly Children
thought it was a story interspersed with a series of Rorschach blots.
No comic exemplifies the backwards stupidity of
Piranha Press
and its low standards than Kyle Baker’s
Why I Hate Saturn.
I’ve hated this comic for years, but before writing this essay, I did a search online to see how many people agreed with my accurate and unassailable assessment of this junk. I was surprised to find mostly
positive
reviews of the work, describing it as quirky and innovative and a whole bunch of other shit that flat out does not
apply . I like Kyle Baker, I think he’s a terrific draftsman, and
Why I Hate Saturn
is, for the most part, meticulously drawn and well-paced. The lettering is also kind of fun. But the story is so meandering and
pointless
that you end up wishing the words were excised altogether so you could flip through the nice pictures unmolested. It’s clear that the deadline was approaching fast while creating this book, since the last half of the story is jammed in the last eight or so pages. The comic, like
Piranha Press
as a whole, is a nice experiment that ultimately fails miserably. However,
Piranha Press
did sort of morph into the
Vertigo
imprint, so it did some good in the world.
Rate this: Sharing is caring. Facebook Twitter Tumblr Pinterest Google More Print Reddit Email Like this: Like
Loading...
Tags:
1980s ,
comic books ,
DC Comics ,
Kyle Baker ,
Louapre ,
Marc Hempel ,
Marvel ,
Piranha Press ,
Sweetman ,
Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles ,
Why I Hate Saturn
Comments
Leave a Comment
Categories
comic books ,
holla! ,
memories ,
visual art
What is now
9 Secrets Only Happy People Know (And They Ain’t Tellin’!)
Your Rights as a Homophobe
The Mind’s Eye
Larry “Bud” Melman, We Hardly Knew Ye
I Don’t Know Why You Say Ello, I Say Goodbye
What once was
What once was
Select Month
September 2015  (1)
June 2015  (2)
May 2015  (1)
September 2014  (2)
August 2014  (1)
May 2014  (1)
March 2014  (1)
August 2013  (1)
May 2013  (1)
March 2013  (2)
February 2013  (3)
January 2013  (1)
December 2012  (4)
November 2012  (3)
October 2012  (6)
September 2012  (1)
April 2012  (3)
February 2012  (5)
January 2012  (7)
December 2011  (2)
November 2011  (3)
October 2011  (5)
September 2011  (3)
August 2011  (5)
July 2011  (5)
June 2011  (9)
May 2011  (7)
April 2011  (13)
March 2011  (15)
February 2011  (28)
January 2011  (4)
What I’m writing about 30 Rock
1970s
1980s
Alan Moore
Alec Baldwin
America
babies
baby
ball pit
Barack Obama
Batman
blood
cartoons
CBS
cgi
Christianity
Christians
comic books
comic strips
Community
creative writing
Cypress Hill
Daniel Radosh
DC Comics
evangelism
exploitation
facebook
family
feminism
Flash
foam rubber costumes
God
graffiti
grandma
hip-hop
Human Tornado
JA
Jesus Christ
Judaism
kung fu
Liz Lemon
marijuana
men
minecraft
misogyny
movies
NBC
New York City
parenting
politics
PS3
racism
rap
Rapture Ready!
religion
Ryan Reynolds
self esteem
sex
sitcom
Style Wars
sucks
Superman
Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles
television
Tracy Morgan
tumblr
TV
twitter
Unitarian Universalism
video games
Watchmen
Wii
women
XBox
youth SUBSCRIBE!
Enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Join 496 other followers
instead of this shit, you should read
syffal.com
Insane interviews with indie rockers.
Phat Friend
He makes rap music, but don't hold that against him.
Armagideon Time
A blog after my own nerdly heart.
Wishing On a Star
Don't let the title confuse, this bitch will cut you in real life.
Copyright Karl Gold © 2012
Blog at WordPress.com .
The Bueno Theme .
Follow
Follow “Defending Regicide”
Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.
Join 496 other followers
Build a website with WordPress.com
Send to Email Address
Your Name
Your Email Address
Cancel
Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
%d
bloggers like this: