John Byrne | Ty Templeton's ART LAND!!
Ty Templeton's ART LAND!!
Skip to content
Home **Bun Toons** All About Ty About Ask a Question… Internet Entries Recent Work Request for Interviews Request for Work Videos Credits APPEARANCES 2015 CLASSES Cover Gallery Dexter by Ty HOLMES INC. STIG’S INFERNO Ty’s Lists!
Tag Archives:
John Byrne
Happy Birthday Big Red S!
Posted on
April 18, 2013
|
6 comments
Seventy Five years old!  Great Rao!
I have a lovely essay that I wrote on the occasion of Superman’s 70th Birthday, and rather than rethink it, I’ll just link to it below.  Click on the image and you’ll be taken to a much larger and readable version of the article.   When you’re done (or once you’ve ignored the article and scrolled below it), you can rejoin the regular blog, still in progress.
What I said still holds true (unless the upcoming movie REALLY sucks).
I’ve had a long and unexpected association with Superman through the years, and I consider it quite an honour to have contributed to the great character’s legacy. Working out of the Superman office in the late 80s and early 90s gave me the whooping-giggle thrill of collaborating with some of the legends of this comics industry.  I got ink over such childhood heroes as Jim Mooney:
And John Byrne…
Dan Jurgens…
…and the definitive Superman artist for a generation: Curt Swan.
…as well as a dozen other artists working out Mike Carlin’s Superman office.  My single favourite image I contributed to while I was a Superman inker was this cover for Superboy: The Comic Book #4…penciled by Kevin Maguire and rendered by your humble blogger.  I rarely put my own artwork up on the walls of my house, but I consider this a Kevin piece anyway, so it sat on my wall for years.
I dare you to tell me that isn’t a great cover.
Superman was on hand the first time I co-wrote a story with my pal Dan Slott.  Though we’d worked together as a writer/artist team a few times, this was our first collaboration as co-writers, and our little tale featured Krypto and his big flyin’ master.   Go find a copy and read it, you’ll let go of a few honest tears when it’s done.  I’m proud of this one.
I got to work with Jerry Seinfeld because of Superman.  I was asked to design the look of  Superman for a series of Seinfeld/American Express animated commercials, as well as creating some odd Jerry and Superman scenes for billboards and print ads.
The original photo is Jerry grabbing at “no one” in the air, and I had to draw Superman to fit where Jerry’s hand was.  Kal-el is supposed to be saying “this guy’s crazy”, but it looks equally like he’s tickling the comedian.
Superman and Jerry bond over their dogs.
Is there any better job than being paid to illustrate Krypto starting a bromance?
Working for Superman offered me to opportunity to design collectable action figures:
and crayon boxes, and puzzles and t-shirts and colouring books and darn near anything with an S on it.  Of the many many images of Superman I’ve drawn for DC Comics over my career, this is my favourite:
I know there’s other characters on this JLU cover, but there’s something about the Superman figure that sits just right with me.  His proportions, his expression, even the colours of his costume, all came together in this image and I didn’t screw any of it up.  I actually don’t hate this cover and my wife will tell you how rare that is for me.  I might be wrong, but I think it’s the last time I drew Superman for the mother corporation…once I get it correct, I scoot off and don’t do it again.
So happy birthday Mr. Cape.  You’ve been a delightful character to read as a child, to work on as a young adult, and to come back to every few years like a comfortable trip back home.   I hope I get another chance at him someday…and I treasure the time we spent together.
I’m always a little jealous when he dates someone else.
Ty the Guy OUT!
Here now, your BONUS Superman Moment- You knew this one was coming.
Share this: Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window) Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window) Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window) Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window) Like this: Like
Loading...
6 Comments
Posted in
DC Comics ,
Superman ,
Tributes
Tagged
75th Anniversary ,
comic books ,
comics ,
Curt Swan ,
Dan Jurgens ,
Dan Slott ,
DC Comics ,
Jerry Seinfeld ,
Jim Mooney ,
John Byrne ,
justice and the American way ,
Kevin Maguire ,
Krypto ,
Mike Carlin ,
Smallville ,
Superboy ,
Superman ,
Superman Adventures ,
truth
Thank Canada! Thank Canada!
Posted on
October 8, 2010
|
13 comments
Don't make us put on our antler costumes and come down there.
It’s Thanksgiving weekend in Canada.  We do it early, which proves (by the science of common sense) that we invented it, and gave Thanksgiving to the world as a gift.  The United States later introduced
our
introspective holiday into their calendar, retroactively attaching it to a big dinner that starving English settlers shared with local Indians a few years before the shooting started.  But it’s our holiday obviously:   It’s based on politeness. Don’t look it up or you’ll insult me.  It’s ours.
Besides Canada’s generosity in giving humanity a moment to reflect on their good fortune, I’ve created a list of the other things the people of the world SHOULD be thanking Canada for.
Thank you, Mr. Shatner.
And no, it’s not going to be about
Bill Shatner , though obviously it could be.  It’s about the world of comic books, and that fact that it simply wouldn’t exist if it weren’t for Canada, and that’s a fact.
So on behalf of the bacon-eating hockey players of this proud nation everywhere… Eskimos and fur trappers, and frozen Frenchmen…
…you’re WELCOME, comic fans.
THE
TOP EIGHT REASONS COMIC FANS SHOULD THANK CANADA
–
8)  John Byrne
Normally these are top SEVEN lists, but
John Byrne
is so insistent that people include him in things, that I let him have his way, even though, technically, he’s a Brit.  Canada should be thanked because we educated the Byrne boy.  Took him in from that wretched England, and raised him up from the tender age of eight, until we let him go into the world in middle age.  Turned out he was the biggest thing in comics for most of the late 70s, and to politely thank us back, he made Canadian comic star, WOLVERINE, into the most popular comic book character for the last thirty years.
And made "Snikt" a household word, along with "beer".
7)  Hal Foster
His Tarzan comic strips were phenomenal, but Foster’s PRINCE VALIANT Sunday pages throughout the 40s and 50s are often considered the most beautiful illustrations ever done for the comics page.    Here, look…
That's just one panel.
Wally Wood ,
Al Williamson ,
Mark Shultz ,
Joe Kubert ,
Dave Sim
and literally hundreds of other illustrators of the Golden and Silver ages cite Nova Scotia local boy Hal Foster as their primary influence.  Gee, you think Kirby might have borrowed the look of his “DEMON” from somewhere in panel three…?  Say “Thank you”, Jack.
6)  Our Trees.
Marvel Comics, slightly before they're collectable.
Every American comic book you’ve ever held in your hand started life as a Canadian tree.  You can forget that the printing industry of the North East
has ALWAYS used our fine Quebec forests as their principal source of paper, as long as you remember that since the 80s, damn near every comic book published by every publisher, large or small, was printed at QUEBECOR PRINTING in…you guessed it, Quebec.  Thank the French-Canadian lumberjacks for this one.
Oh ho!
Ze Comics...they all rely on Jacques to exist, mais non?
5)  Darywn Cooke
Besides being the only man who can collapse civilization by saying “sudden lesbian” in an online video,
Darwyn Cooke
is comics current “it boy”, with
critical gushes and swooning fans following him from project to project.   His retro style has earned him every award the biz has to offer, and he’s done all this while being a dead ringer for Slam Bradley – an achievement in itself.  Without Darwyn, comics nowadays would be nothing more but hyperbolic close up details of forearm veins.  Thank the stars, he stems that tide.
That's a very patriotic American image there, Darwyn...
4)  Lynn Johnston.
FOR BETTER OF FOR WORSE
is easily the best comic art ever given to us by a female creator, and for the whole time it was being published,
Lynn
drew it from her home a few hours north of Toronto.
This magnificent series (only recently finished up) aged along with its readers, and touched the lives of millions in a way that the comics hadn’t since the early days of the century.  Along with
Doonesbury ,
Peanuts ,
Pogo ,
Li’l Abner ,
Krazy Kat ,
Popeye ,
Little Nemo ,
Prince Valiant
and
Calvin and Hobbes ,
FBOFW
is one of the ten best comic strips ever produced.  If you know who
Farley
is, and the mere mention of his name doesn’t start to choke you up, you’re an inhuman monster.
The series finale from 2008
–
3)  Dave Sim
a rare photo of Dave with his mouth shut
The creation and the COMPLETION of the astounding run of
CEREBUS THE AARDVARK
is the No. #1 most inspiring story the world over for both indie cartoonists and people prone to spelling mistakes.
Yes, that's a typo.
A thirty year typo...
Dave Sim proved that if you have an insanely long, mind-bogglingly intricate story that’s going to take you twenty seven years to tell…then BY GOD, it can be done, even if you have to do it yourself!!
CEREBUS
is the longest running series ever written and drawn by the same guy – don’t even bring up the part
about publishing it and promoting it himself (with the help of his temporary wife and temporary publisher
Deni Loubert , of course, and his inker/background assistant
GERHARD ).  300 issues, 6000 pages, 12,000 loud mouth opinions in the letters pages.  When people say Sim wrote the book on self-publishing, he literally did.
Image Comics , wouldn’t exist without his ground-breaking influence, and apparently,
neither would Babylon 5 .
2)  Todd McFarlane
The '90s:
they were his fault. But at least he has balls.
Speaking of
Image Comics …  We must give thanks for our man of the Western Praries:   Todd McFarlane .  Without him, we wouldn’t have all those extra fidgety
lines on all those drawings for the last twenty years.  Besides re-inventing Spider-Man’s face mask, Marvel’s sales figures and humanity’s basic anatomy, Todd re-invented the toy industry by adding so many bendy bits to action figures, that they are now too cool to remove from the box.
Don't you DARE play with this.
It's not a TOY, it's a McFarlane Action Figure!
Because of the twin revolutions of Image Comics and McFarlane Toys, the fanboy universe would not be the same without him, and neither would the million dollar home-run-collectible baseball market, as I think Todd owns them all.  I think he part-owns the Edmonton Oilers too, but there’s no American who needs to thank him for that.
The Million Dollar Balls of Todd
–
1)  Joe Shuster
Shuster, hard at work cheating himself out of millions.
Ah, you knew I was going here.
Joe Shuster
was the Canadian artist who co-created Superman to help out his American friend
Jerry Seige l accomplish SOMETHING in his life.
He helped create this guy.
Canadians know this because we have the stamps, the “Heritage Minute”,  the street named after him in Toronto, and the cousin he left behind to create
WAYNE AND SHUSTER .  (It’s absolutely true, they were blood relatives!)
You'll note the resemblance to Jor-El.
Superman is practically a Canadian citizen we hear about this so much.  Metropolis is based on Toronto.  The Daily Planet is based on Toronto’s
He was not born on this street, but it's in the right town, at least.
“Daily Star”
newspaper, and the original editor “George Taylor” was named after a real Daily Star Editor, and former boss of former Star copy boy, Shuster.   I don’t  have to tell you that comics in America would have died out long ago without the fellows in the capes, and that the fellows in the capes are ALL a variation on the Man of Steel in one way or another.
So you’re welcome, world!  Thank Canada !
Honorable Mentions:
Stuart Immomen, Ian Boothby,  Dave Ross, Kaare Andrews, Win Mortimer, Ken Lashley, Chester Brown, Tom Fowler, Pia Guerra, Bryan Lee O’Malley, Seth, Max Douglas, Richard Pace, Dale Keown, Bernie Mireault, Gabriel Morrissette, Yanick Paquette, Travis Charest, Diana Shutz,Tom Grummett, Howard Wong,  Steve McNiven, David Finch, Gene Day, Sam Agro, Kate Beaton, Richard Comely, Denis Rodier, Gibson Quarter, David J. Cutler, Clement Sauve, Steve Platt, George Freeman, Dean Motter, Ken Steacy, Adrian Alphona, Pat Davidson, Ramon Perez, Ho Che Anderson, Martin Pasko, Rand Holmes, Cam Stewart, Marcus To, Francis Manapul, Ryan Sohmer, Bob Smith, Mark Shainblum, Kent Burles,  Lar Desouza, J.  Bone, Kalman Adrasofszky…and K.T. Smith.
Just off the top of my head.
TY THE GUY OUT!
Here now, your comic book moment of zen:
Art by Joe Shuster, for adult publishers, shortly after he stopped drawing Superman.
Share this: Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window) Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window) Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window) Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window) Like this: Like
Loading...
13 Comments
Posted in
Canadian Superheroes ,
Ty's Top
Tagged
Bill Shatner ,
Captain Canada ,
Cerebus ,
Darwyn Cooke ,
Dave Sim ,
For Better or for Worse ,
Hal Foster ,
Joe Shuster ,
John Byrne ,
Lynn Johnston ,
Prince Valiant ,
Quebecor World ,
Thanksgiving Day ,
Todd McFarlane ,
Wayne and Shuster ,
Wolverine
THE SEVEN MOST MISGUIDED ATTEMPTS AT GAY CHARACTERS IN COMICS.
Posted on
September 1, 2010
|
36 comments
A recent spate of internet chatter involving something
Darwyn Cooke
said about making Batwoman gay got me thinking about homosexual comic characters in general.   Cooke was worried that
DC
was being exploitative of Batwoman’s lesbianism, rather than sensitive and intelligent about it –  something he’s concluded without reading the actual
Detective Comic
series, I’ll wager, or he’d know it’s being done quite well.  But I’ll give Darwyn the benefit of the doubt, as the pre-release Batwoman hype seemed more aimed at titillation than acceptance, and it’s not like comics haven’t had an appalling track record when creating gay characters.
You can just see the tolerance and acceptance in this image.
LGBT people were routinely played as odd, creepy or predatory in our biz, if they were even mentioned at all…check out Jim Shooter’s infamous Bruce-Banner-Nearly-Raped-in-the-Shower scene in the Rampaging Hulk to get a typical view of the subject from the Seventies.
And if they weren’t sinful weirdoes, they ended up dead from AIDS or being killed off-panel unceremoniously, because, well… no one will miss them.  Count how many X-Men have come out over the years, and now count up how many of them are dead.  The numbers don’t add up well.
Even when strong, positive gay characters showed up, there was still something “off” about ‘em.  Spider-Man’s cop friend Jean DeWolff was brusque and unpleasant (and has since been killed off). The Flash’s gay pal,
Pied Piper,
(written excellently by
Mark Waid ) was an evil Rogue named after
a character who lured young children away
from their parents by blowing on something.  (Flash Rogues with more problematic names if they’d popped out of the closet:
“the Top” ,
“the Rainbow Raider”
and
“the Golden Glider” .…)
It’s been a long road to get to where
Batwoman ,
Midnighter ,
Rene Montoya ,
Apollo ,
Anole ,
Obsidian , and
John Constantine
can be out and still be decent characters with more or less regular lives, and who are not portrayed as creepy, or bad or sinful.  Well, except for Constantine, but that’s how we like him.  Along that road, there have been bumps and mistakes — Attempts to be inclusive that ended up making LGBT folk seem odder to mainstream readers.  And of course,  wherever there is awful comics…I’ll be there to share them with you….
Here now–
THE SEVEN MOST MISGUIDED ATTEMPTS AT GAY CHARACTERS IN COMICS.
7)  Sebastian O
Created by writer
Grant Morrison
in 1993.  (Grant shows up again later in this list so keep an eye peeled).  I believe he’s the first gay character to have his own comic series from a mainstream American publisher ( Vertigo ), if you don’t count characters ret-conned into their GBLT status (such as
DC’s Shade the Changing Man/Woman ).
Sebastian O is set in a steampunk version of Victorian England, wherein Sebastian is more or less a revenge-killer version of
Oscar Wilde , only more gay…Oh sure, his mission is to hunt down and slay someone who got him tossed unjustly into prison (mostly for writing a “sinful” book), but it’s hard to be on O’s side when he’s friends with an admitted (and unrepentant) child molester, and when he murders innocent people, and feeds their bodies to his cat if it suits his needs.  There’s too much overt pederasty through the story for it to be helpful to anyone’s understanding of a gay lifestyle, and I’m not sure a homicidal Wilde is even the best place to start…
It IS a gun in my pocket, but I'm still glad to see you.
Here’s the strange part:  The series is actually readable, and Mr. O is easily the least annoying character on this list.
6)  Tasmanian Devil
Because there are no bears in Australia.
Taz was the first openly homosexual member of the Justice League, and it sure made him into a household name in the world of comics, didn’t it?  After coming out, the Devil was continuously played as a background character (rarely with even a single line of dialog), who shows up to be beaten senseless during REALLY BIG crossover events, and that’s about it.  You can find him buried in rubble on page eight in any book with the word CRISIS in the title.
After his second class status in the Justice League went nowhere, he was relegated to the astoundingly forgettable
GLOBAL GUARDIANS,
where he did nothing there either.  Eventually he’s killed and turned into a throw rug by Prometheus in the recent miniseries, JUSTICE LEAGUE: CRY FOR JUSTICE.
It’s not like Taz was ever a good character to begin with, but if they were going to make him gay, for god’s sake, don’t make him SO F***ING LAME!
5)  Monsieur Mallah and the Brain.
Ah...l'amour.
C'est fou!
A talking gorilla and a disembodied jar of goo, in love.
Dateline: Early Doom Patrol.  The Brain (when he was a regular mad scientist with a body) did some mad science-y experiments on a regular mountain gorilla until the ape became a simian genius with the power to speak French, and the desire to do evil.  Then the scientist lost his body in some sort of science-y accident and ended up a brain in a jar.  You’d think that would make this pair weird enough…
But during Grant Morrison’s 80s run of the
DOOM PATROL , the Brain was put into one of the spare robot bodies belonging to Doom Patrol member ROBOTMAN and the fun began.  As soon as he had arms and legs (and other body parts), Brain tells Mallah that he has been secretly in cross-species love with the furry beastie for years, but couldn’t confess it when he was just squishy lumps of tube stuff.   Mallah sends his bestial gay love right back at Brain, and they move in for the weirdest kiss in Western fiction… until … well, you’ll just have to read it to believe it…
…yup.  The Robotman body self destructs the moment the monkey plants a smacker on the android’s lips, as it simply can’t exist in a world that odd.  It sure brought home the idea that homosexuals are JUST like you and me.  A great leap forward for tolerance.
(NOTE:  The characters have since been revived and killed again, this time Mallah being beaten to death with Brain as the weapon.  They always die together, though…so it’s KINDA romantic.)
4) Freedom Ring:
Quick Quiz:
Whose costume is more macho?
Though at first glance, the character of
Curtis Doyle’s FREEDOM RING
(first appearing in
Robert Kirkman’s
“Master of the Ring” 5 part story arc in Marvel Team-Up a few years back) seemed like a decent character to make into a gay-positive super-hero.  He’s well adjusted, intelligent and casually “out” about his lifestyle, when he acquires a bit of the Cosmic Cube in the form of a ring, and is ready to save the world as essentially Marvel’s version of a Green Lantern.
But then this happens.
It could have gone well, except Curtis is killed dead,  penetrated by many phallic looking “things” (tendrils, spikes?), shooting out from a bad guy’s body (another subtle one there, guys) exactly one month to the day after he was being promoted as Marvel’s new Gay Superhero by Joe Quesada in interviews.  The story in which he was killed
had already been written and drawn when Quesada felt the need to do the media promotion
thing.  It’s hard to believe they weren’t aware of the F*CK YOU involved when they quickly impale Freedom Ring dead, in one of the worst bait-and-switch messages since
Bill Jemas’ MARVILLE
was described as “readable”.   Author Kirkman now claims he “didn’t mean it” to be so bluntly homophobic, it just sort of turned out that way…
3)  The Rawhide Kid
I hear guns can be metaphors for something.
Probably the worst dialog for any gay character in comics belongs to Rawhide Kid….perhaps for any straight character as well.
Ha ha!
It's funny, see?
The “Kid”
had been a Marvel Western mainstay since the late fifties, usually taking third place behind
Kid Colt: Outlaw , and the
Two-Gun Kid
in popularity.  But, in 2003, editor
Axel Alonzo
and writer
Ron Zimmerman
took this somewhat outdated Atlas era gunfighter and made him into a prancing joke, supposedly to introduce more gay-positive characters into the Marvel world.  For a book about straight shootin’, it’s ironic how MUCH THEY MISSED THEIR TARGET.
And if he gets bored, he's scratch your eyes out.
The mini-series “RAWHIDE KID:  SLAP LEATHER” (beautifully drawn by the legendary
John Severin ) is an aimless generic plot (about saving a rancher  from evil land developers or something) that has no reason for existence, beyond fruity double entendres and an obsession with keeping one’s leather gear looking fabulous. It’s as though Zimmerman’s entire knowledge of homosexuality came from a screening of
THE BIRDCAGE , and then he checked with
a Westboro Baptist minister
to ensure he was writing a script “faggy” enough to be absurdly hateful.
Guess what?  It was.
Hey folks.
Do you get it?
It's like it's a gun, or maybe it's a dick.
It's all too subtle for me.
2)  Northstar
What DIDN’T Marvel handle badly about this character’s history?  Let us count the ways…
1)
John Byrne
created him to be Marvel’s first openly homosexual character, but the editors refused to let Northstar’s orientation be discussed for more than ten years- until issue #106 of
ALPHA FLIGHT .
Northstar
had been gay since Alpha Flight #1.
The world of Canadian Superheroes gets all "real".
2)   A few years before he was officially “out”, he got a mysterious illness that was very AIDS-like, and he was only cured of it when…
3)  …It was revealed that he was actually a ….I swear to god….FAIRY. The kind with little fly wings, you know…like Tinkerbell?  Being part fairy gave him some sort of immunity in his blood or something, I don’t remember the details, only that I threw my copy across the room when I read it.
4)  Bless his heart, Northstar adopts a baby girl he finds in a dumpster, but the kid dies of AIDS before long.  AIDS and Fairies, folks, that’s what being gay in the Marvel Universe is all about.
5)   He’s never had a date, or a romantic moment in his entire publishing history so far as I know, and his orientation barely comes up in his own mini-series.  For Marvel’s first “gay” character, he’s sure not very gay.  But at least he’s currently alive (though Wolverine DID kill him once).  That’s fairly rare for olde-tyme homosexuals in the funny books…
Don't forget,
he's a professional skier, so he goes "swish" whenever he goes down.
and finally…
1)  Extraño
Like a fine wine, this drawing only gets better with age.
Created by
Steve Englehart
and
Joe Staton
in the
DC MILLENIUM
mini-series of the late 80s, and later spun-off into
THE NEW GUARDIANS
super-hero team with fellow token character
“Pieface” , the Inuit mechanic from Silver Age Green Lantern comics…(clearly the Spirit’s
EBONY WHITE
was busy.)
Extraño is the Spanish word for “strange” or “queer”, so you know you’re in for thoughtful writing from the get-go.  This caricature of a flaming queen was the first openly gay super-hero in DC history (and I think in comics generally), and boy-howdy was he a sensitive portrayal.  First there’s his whole “look”: a billowy purple cape, bling that would embarrass Flavor Flav, thigh-high leather pirate boots (rolled down), and a goofy mustache that would someday inspire Prince.  Oh, and he’s  constantly referring to himself as “Auntie”.  I think the editors were going for gay-positive but they clearly had no idea what that was.   I guess they figured a flamboyant, hair-obsessed Hispanic with magic powers would simply write itself.   He was kind of a Dr. Strange character that could levitate and do mystical shit, but that was never what he was about.  It was the gayness.  The gay clothes, the gay attitude, the ASTOUNDINGLY large blow-dried ‘do… Aaaand, of course, because he was, you know…GAY…, he’s trying to kill himself when we first meet him (stopped by the Flash) aaaand he eventually had to contract AIDS, which he got from a possibly-gay vampire called
Hemo-Goblin .  Though after he got himself the AIDS, he never seemed to ever suffer from it in any way…and kind of forgot he had it.
I guess the suicide attempt was Englehart’s attempt at insight, but it came off as a patronizing cliché, even in the 80s.
This is the least flamboyant image I could find of this guy.
BONUS POINTS:  Since Extraño wasn’t just an collection of homosexual stereotypes, but also Hispanic stereotypes, they managed to knock down two minorities in one go.
Of course, readers got tired of this crap, and DC recently killed him in a big explosion that dropped most of a house on his ass.
COMING SOON:
The Seven BEST Gay characters in Comics…because the glass is finally half full.
Ty the Guy OUT!
Here now, your comic book moment of zen:
Share this: Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window) Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window) Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window) Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window) Like this: Like
Loading...
36 Comments
Posted in
Ty's Top
Tagged
alpha flight ,
Axel Alonzo ,
Batwoman ,
Darwyn Cooke ,
Extraño ,
Freedom Ring ,
Gay ,
Gay Comics ,
gay-positive ,
Grant Morrison ,
Jim Shooter ,
Joe Staton ,
John Byrne ,
Kirkman ,
Lesbian ,
LGBT ,
Monsieur Mallah ,
Northstar ,
Pied Piper ,
Rawhide Kid ,
Ron Zimmerman ,
Sebastian O ,
Steve Englehart ,
Tasmanian Devil ,
the Brain ,
The New Guardians
Follow me on Twitter!
Subscribe:
Enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Join 330 other followers
Ty Templeton’s ART LAND!   RSS - Posts
Categories Categories
Select Category
00 Stig's Inferno
American Splendor
Appearances
April 1
art for sale
Art Spiegelman
Awards
Batman
Big Max
Bigg Time
Bootcamp Comics
Breaking into Comics
Bun Toon
bun toons
Bunny Funnies
Canadian Superheroes
charity
Christmas
Christmas Bunny
Comic Book Art
Comic Book Bootcamp
Comic Book Creators
Comic Book Moment of Zen
Comics
Comics in other forms
Comics that Matter
Commissions
Con Sketches
Contests
Convention Stories
Conventions
Corrections
countdown
Credits
Dark Claw Adventures
DC Comic’s Shoptalk
DC Comics
Dead Celebrity Jokes
Dexter: The Early Cuts
Easter
eBay listings for Ty Templeton
Elongated Man
Elseworlds Special
Eulogy
Fit to Print
Flashbacks
Follow-Up
Four Panels
Free Comic Book Day
GLXmas Special
Hallowe’en
Halloween
Halloween ComicFest
Harvey Pekar
Hero Initiative
Heroes of the North
Holmes Inc
Hoverboy Fridays
Interviews
Introduction
It Gets Better
JLA
Joe Shuster Awards
Justice League
Justice League Unlimited Covers
Koffler Centre of the Arts
Last Round-Up
Last Week in Art Land
Last Week on the ‘net
LGBTQ
Links
Mad Dog
Mad Magazine
Marvel Comics
Maus
Mike Parobeck
Moonstone Books
Mouse Rat
Movie Review
Mr. Comics
music
Nepotism Thursdays
NEW COMIC WEEKEND
New Comics Day
New Pages
New Work
Northern Guard
On Television
On the 'Net
On the Couch
Parks and Recreation
Planet of the Apes
Powdered Toast Man Special
Released this week
RePost
Reviews
Saturday Morning Cartoons
Scandals
Secret Origins
Spider-Man
Spider-Man/Human Torch
Star Trek
Stig's Inferno
Superfriends
Superman
Templetoons
The Comic Book Lounge & Gallery
The Crimson Arrow
The Joe Shuster Awards
The New Wave
The Simpsons
top five
Toronto Cartoonists Workshop
Toronto Cartoonists Workshops
Tributes
Trouble
True Life Tales
Tumblr
Twitter
Ty Templeton
Ty Templeton’s Comic Book Bootcamp
Ty Toons
Ty's Top
Ty’s Lists
Uncategorized
Unseen artwork
Videos
What the %@&*!
WildC.A.T.S. Adventures
Wonder Woman
Workshops
X-Men
Archives
Archives
Select Month
October 2015
September 2015
August 2015
July 2015
June 2015
May 2015
April 2015
March 2015
February 2015
January 2015
December 2014
November 2014
October 2014
September 2014
August 2014
July 2014
June 2014
May 2014
April 2014
March 2014
February 2014
January 2014
December 2013
November 2013
October 2013
September 2013
August 2013
July 2013
June 2013
May 2013
April 2013
March 2013
February 2013
January 2013
December 2012
November 2012
October 2012
September 2012
August 2012
July 2012
June 2012
May 2012
April 2012
March 2012
February 2012
January 2012
December 2011
November 2011
October 2011
September 2011
August 2011
July 2011
June 2011
May 2011
April 2011
March 2011
February 2011
January 2011
December 2010
November 2010
October 2010
September 2010
August 2010
July 2010
June 2010
May 2010
April 2010
March 2010
February 2010
January 2010
December 2009
November 2009
October 2009
September 2009
Blog at WordPress.com .
The Coraline Theme .
Ty Templeton's ART LAND!!
Blog at WordPress.com .
The Coraline Theme .
Follow
Follow “Ty Templeton's ART LAND!!”
Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.
Join 330 other followers
Build a website with WordPress.com
Send to Email Address
Your Name
Your Email Address
Cancel
Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
%d
bloggers like this:
Add your thoughts here... (optional)
Post to
Cancel