G&B Team: Chris Evans
G&B Team
Revolution of the New Era
Welcome
Freedom of Expressions.
Friday, December 24, 2010
Chris Evans
My Hero Evans is a former vegetarian. [ citation needed ]  He met his former girlfriend  Jessica Biel  in 2001 through friends. He appeared with her in the 2004 film  Cellular  and again in the 2005 film  London . They broke up in June 2006. [ 17 ]  Chris' brother, actor  Scott Evans , is openly gay, and Chris expressed his  support  for his brother and the  gay community  in a 2009 interview with  The Advocate . [ 11 ]
Christopher Robert "Chris" Evans  (born June 13, 1981) is an American actor. He is perhaps best known for his role in the film  Not Another Teen Movie  and as the  Human Torch  in the films  Fantastic Four  and  Fantastic Four: Rise of the Silver Surfer . [ 1 ]  He will be starring in the title role in the upcoming comic book movie,  Captain America: The First Avenger . [ 2 ]
Evans was born in  Sudbury, Massachusetts , the son of Lisa (née Capuano), a dancer, and Bob Evans, a  dentist . [ 3 ] [ 4 ]  He is the nephew of U.S. Congressman  Mike Capuano , who is his mother's brother. [ 5 ] [ 6 ]  He has two sisters, Carly and Shanna, and a younger brother,  Scott , who was featured on the  ABC   soap opera ,  One Life to Live . [ 3 ]  Evans is of  Italian  (from his maternal grandfather) and  Irish  descent, and was raised  Catholic . [ 7 ] [ 8 ]  He graduated from  Lincoln-Sudbury Regional High School  in 1999 and had originally planned to attend  New York University  after graduating from high school. After completing his junior year in high school, Evans traveled to  Brooklyn  where he interned at a casting agency and took a summer acting program. That same summer he met an agent that helped him get his start in acting after completing high school. Evans had small parts on television series such as  Boston Public  and  The Fugitive  and a role in the television series  Opposite Sex  before landing his first notable role as Jake Wyler in  Not Another Teen Movie .
After filming wrapped on  Not Another Teen Movie , Evans landed several more lead roles in  The Perfect Score  and  Cellular . He also starred in a couple of independent films in Chicago with Executive Producer David Johnson where audiences got to see a different side to Evans. In Dirk Wittenborn's  Fierce People  he plays Bryce, a character whose sinister mental make up slowly becomes evident as the film unfolds. In London , Evans played a strung out drug user with relationship problems. He was then chosen to play the  Human Torch  in the 2005  comic book  adaptation  Fantastic Four . He was named 'Male Superstar of Tomorrow' at the 2005 Young Hollywood Awards. Evans reprised the role of Johnny Storm/The Human Torch in the sequel  Fantastic Four: Rise of the Silver Surfer  in 2007. That year he also starred as an engineer turned astronaut called Mace in  Danny Boyle 's sci-fi film  Sunshine , which brought him to the attention of directors as a serious acting talent.
In 2008, Evans appeared in  Street Kings , co-starring  Keanu Reeves , and  The Loss of a Teardrop Diamond , co-starring  Bryce Dallas Howard  and  Ellen Burstyn . The latter is based on a play created by  Tennessee Williams . Evans also appeared in the 2009 sci-fi  thriller   Push  along with  Dakota Fanning  and  Camilla Belle . [ 9 ]  Evans performed his own fight scenes, which took weeks to film, and was bruised during filming. [ 10 ]  Evans was featured in an article in  The Advocate  for his role in  Push . [ 11 ] In 2009, Evans was ranked 474th in  Forbes ' "Star Currency" rankings based on the global box-office performance of his past films. [ 12 ]
In 2010, he filmed  Puncture  in Houston, Texas. Directed by Mark and Adam Kassen, it is described as a David and Goliath law drama about a drug-addicted lawyer Mark Weiss (played by Evans) who takes on a health supply corporation while battling his own personal demons. Also in 2010, Evans appeared in  Sylvain White 's  The Losers , an adaptation of  Vertigo  and  DC Comics ' comic book  series of the same name . [ 13 ]  Evans also appeared in another comic book adaption,  Edgar Wright 's  Scott Pilgrim vs. the World , where he portrayed Lucas Lee, one of Ramona Flowers' seven exes, whom Scott Pilgrim must defeat in order to win her affections. [ 14 ]  Evans is set to play the iconic  Marvel  comic book character  Captain America  in the upcoming films  Captain America: The First Avenger ,  The Avengers  and at least two sequels to  Captain America . [ 15 ]  Before that he is filming  What's Your Number?  a comic romance staring  Anna Faris  filmed in his native Boston. [ 16 ]
My gawd! only in my dreams!
Posted by
Just Boner
at
11:40 PM
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share to Pinterest
Reactions
No comments:
Post a Comment
Newer Post
Older Post
Home
Subscribe to:
Post Comments (Atom)
Pages
Home
"The Secret of Making People Like You"
Welcome To My Life
Informative. Entertaining. Erotic.
Contributions
For requests, suggestions, and contributions please don't hesitate to send in to Boner007@yahoo.com shall gladly be appreciated. Articles and photos used in this page were solicited from different sites on the internet and indicated with link.
Followers
Blog Archive
▼
2010
(31)
▼
December
(31)
Wanking
Pump it up!
Chris Evans
Ryan Reynolds
Oded Fehr
Edward Burns
Straight? Echus!
Man's Milky Juice
Akihiro Sato
Jo In Sung of Memories in Bali
The Love of Siam Theme song
(Movie)No Regret ─MV
No Regret
My Asian Dreamboy
Dare to bare
Fantasy 7
Christmas in the Philippines
My First Mesa de Gallo
Fantasy # 6
Fantasy # 1
Fantasy # 4
Fantasy # 5
Fantasy # 2
Fantasy # 3
My dream guy from the group Blue, DUNCAN JAMES
The Love of Siam
Beating off
Currently so busy redesigning the page
Spit-shining the old water pump!
The Art of Male Masturbation (From a sex therapist...
Waxing the brass candlestick
Labels
Brandon Manilow
(1)
Chris Evans
(1)
Clark of Fratmen
(1)
Cody Cummings
(1)
Duncan James
(1)
Ethan Parker
(1)
Jedrek
(1)
Lee Yeong Hoon
(1)
Love of Siam
(1)
Marco Blaze
(1)
Masturbation
(3)
My Asian Dream guys
(3)
My Kinda Guy
(6)
Oh Ji-ho
(1)
Pavel Novotny
(1)
Pump it up
(1)
Reese Rideout
(1)
About Me
Just Boner
I love taking pictures on the beach. I love travelling but I hate flying on an airplane or riding on a taxi cab. I always dream of seeing myself shoveling on a snow or picking up apples from the tree. I love to sing in front of a great crowd or at the grandiose of a church wedding. I dream of having a foreigner boyfriend.
View my complete profile
Total Pageviews
There was an error in this gadget
Search This Blog
Loading...
Travel template. Template images by
Nikada . Powered by
Blogger .