The Rap Sheet: November 2010
skip to main
|
skip to sidebar
Monday, December 20, 2010
January’s 2010 Hits in December
In case anyone has been puzzled by the unusual lack of activity on this page over the last day and a half, please rest assured that it was intentional--and extremely useful. Not only did it allow our post
asking readers to vote for the Best Crime Novel Cover of the Year
to remain at the top of The Rap Sheet (and thereby generate a greater response), but it provided me with the time I needed to finish putting together
January Magazine ’s Best Crime Novels of the Year feature.
As I did last year , I have split the numerous 2010 crime-fiction selections in two, with Part I going up just a bit ago. You can read the A-G selections
here . Part II of this feature will be posted tomorrow afternoon.
To learn how the books were chosen, not only crime novels but other works as well, see
January ’s Best Books of 2010
anchor piece here .
Posted by
J. Kingston Pierce
at
1:08 PM
0
comments
Saturday, December 18, 2010
Face Off
Ever since 2007, those of us at The Rap Sheet have closed out each year with a look back at some of what we considered to be the
finest crime novel covers of the previous twelvemonth . It’s our small way of acknowledging the often-unheralded graphic designers who, though they don’t write the books we read, nonetheless play a vital role in encouraging us to pick up those works in the first place. Frankly, most of the crime-fiction jackets we see in stores nowadays are quite pedestrian and dull, either employing identical varieties of imagery (especially shadowy running figures and vague but ominous
nightscapes) or, even worse,
duplicating stock photography we have already spotted on other book fronts . It is the least we can do to applaud concepts that go beyond the typical, that draw our eyes through distinctive means.
Our annual judging panel comprises four people with at least some background in design:
novelist
Linda L. Richards, who’s also the editor of
January Magazine ; graphic artist, illustrator, and photographer
David Middleton , who serves as the art and culture editor of
January ; Kevin Burton Smith, the editor and creator of
The Thrilling Detective Web Site ; and yours truly, J. Kingston Pierce, editor of The Rap Sheet. Over the last few months, we’ve all pitched in our nominations for “great covers.” Linda’s assessment of the panelists’ nominations strikes me as correct: “Kevin’s choices all seem starkly graphic, Jeff seems pulled by great images, I am moved by really terrific typography, and I know from David’s comments that he’s big on how all the pieces fit together. (Um ... not surprising, considering he’s a working designer!)”
From a longlist of more than two dozen outstanding examples, published on both sides of the Atlantic, the four of us voted for our favorites, narrowing the list down further to just 10 jackets, each of which offers intriguing atmosphere, interesting and appropriate typography, and creativity that exceeds the norm. Now we’re asking Rap Sheet readers to help us pick the best crime novel cover of 2010.
After you’ve looked closely over the nominees featured below (arranged in alphabetical order by title), scroll down to the end of this post, where you will find a box in which to vote for what you think are the best choices among this final bunch. Feel free to choose as many jackets as you think deserve praise. We will leave this cover contest open for the next week and a half, until midnight on Wednesday, January 5. After which we’ll announce the results.
By the way, if you think we’ve neglected to mention some particularly handsome specimen of crime-fiction front published during 2010, please let us know about it in the Comments section of this post. With your alternative suggestion, try to include a Web address where we can all go to study your nominee ourselves.
Click on any of these covers for an enlargement.
&lt;br /&gt; &lt;a href="http://polldaddy.com/poll/4265248/"&gt;Which Is Your Favorite Crime Novel Cover of 2010?&lt;/a&gt;&lt;span style="font-size:9px;"&gt;&lt;a href="http://polldaddy.com/features-surveys/"&gt;customer surveys&lt;/a&gt;&lt;/span&gt;&lt;br /&gt;
Posted by
J. Kingston Pierce
at
9:30 AM
9
comments
Labels:
Best Covers
“It Is the Dead She Seeks”
This week’s new short story in
Beat to a Pulp , and the last one to be posted there in 2010, is called “ The Quick ... and the Dead .” It comes from novelist and
blogger
Bill Crider.
Posted by
J. Kingston Pierce
at
9:00 AM
0
comments
Why Does This Headline Not Surprise Me?
“ Fox News Viewers Are the Most Misinformed: Study. ” More
here .
Posted by
J. Kingston Pierce
at
8:31 AM
1 comments
Friday, December 17, 2010
Giving Credit Wherever It’s Due
Earlier today, the final part of “The Chase,” the Top Suspense group’s big
tag-team fiction project , was posted. You will find it
here .
Now the focus shifts to you, the readers of that multi-part story. As Top Suspense member Dave Zeltserman
explained
when “The Chase” began running last week, “we’ll be offering free books to the first five people who can match each segment to the author who wrote it!” The six authors involved are listed
here .
It’s not clear exactly where one is supposed to lodge his or her guesses about who wrote each segment of “The Chase.” But I suspect you can probably do so in the Comments section of
Part 12
and feel confident of having entered this contest.
UPDATE:
Dave Zeltserman has now posted the specifics for people hoping to enter Top Suspense’s contest: “We’re offering free books and bragging rights to the first five people who can match each story segment to the author who wrote it. You can enter the contest by sending an e-mail to
dave.zeltserman@gmail.com
with your picks. Entries must be received by Dec. 30th, and one entry per person. We’ll be announcing the winners on Jan. 3rd.” Zeltserman is
also offering
free autographed editions of his own novels to the “first three people who can pick out the two story segments I wrote.”
Click here
to read “The Chase” in its entirety.
Posted by
J. Kingston Pierce
at
8:14 PM
1 comments
An Actress to Remember
Bill Crider
brings the sad news
that 90-year-old Iowa-born performer Neva Patterson has died at her home in Los Angeles.
As
The New York Times
points out , the rather
stern-countenanced
Patterson was probably known best for her roles in the film
An Affair to Remember
(1957) and the play
The Seven Year Itch
(1952). But her lengthy
list of credits
in the Internet Movie Database includes guest appearances in TV crime dramas such as
Coronet Blue ,
The Snoop Sisters ,
Ironside ,
The Rockford Files ,
Barnaby Jones ,
Cagney & Lacey , and
In the Heat of the Night . Patterson also had a regular part in James Garner’s 1971-1972 western series,
Nichols , and played “a collaborator with alien invaders” in the original, 1980s science-fiction TV mini-series
V .
Posted by
J. Kingston Pierce
at
7:55 PM
0
comments
Labels:
Obits 2010
The Book You Have to Read: “An Unsuitable
Job for a Woman,” by P.D. James
(Editor’s note: This is the 111th installment of
our ongoing Friday blog series
highlighting great but forgotten books. Today’s pick comes from Oregon coast author
Kristine Kathryn Rusch , better known to crime-fiction enthusiasts under her pseudonym Kris Nelscott. As Nelscott, she has written six critically acclaimed mystery novels about African-American private eye
Smokey Dalton . She’s won the Herodotus Award for Best Historical Mystery, and been short-listed
for the Edgar and Shamus awards. Her latest Smokey Dalton short story, “Family Affair,” was reprinted in
By Hook or By Crook and 27 More of the Best Crime and Mystery Stories of the Year , edited by Ed Gorman and Martin H. Greenberg. In 2011, WMG Publishing will reissue all six Smokey novels in anticipation of her next installment in that series,
The Day After , which will appear in 2012.)
I grew up in a very different time. At the age of 17, I was on the short list to become a page in the United States Senate. Several someones from a Wisconsin high school would be chosen, and my record of extracurricular activities--from debate to Model United Nations--as well as my high grades gave me the best credentials in the state. I was, as my social studies teacher told me, a shoo-in.
Until it came time for the interview. Four of my classmates and I had to travel to Madison, the state capital, to meet the senator and his staff. My four classmates went. I could not.
Not because of anything I had done, mind you. The senator’s staff simply took one look at our list and barred me from attending. Seems I was the only girl in the state to try to become a Senate page.
I didn’t protest. At 17, I already knew there was nothing I could do except hope things would get better. Later that year, I won a prestigious local scholarship that would pay my tuition for all four years of college. That scholarship, given every year to a boy and a girl from the local high school, was the best the school had to offer.
The boy did not have the restrictions built into his scholarship that I had. His scholarship had no restrictions at all. Mine had several, including this one: I would lose the scholarship if I got married while still in college. Silly me, I got married at 19 and forfeited the scholarship. Again, I did not protest the inequity. I knew there was no point--even though I planned to (and did) graduate within the usual four years. Marriage didn’t slow me down. Lack of financial resources hurt, however. I really could have used that money.
At one point, I held four jobs because I had lost that scholarship. Although if I mentioned to my father, a college professor, that I “lost” the scholarship, he would correct me. I had chosen to
give it up . True enough. But had I had a penis, I would not have had to make that choice. The inequity was on me solely because of my gender.
One Saturday afternoon, as I manned the used bookstore that provided both one of my four jobs and the only major leak in my income, I stumbled upon a book by a mystery writer who was just becoming famous in the United States. Phyllis Dorothy James White knew all about the inequities that women suffered. Her books resonated with them.
Only I didn’t know that yet, because I had never read a
P.D. James
novel. The title of this one,
An Unsuitable Job for a Woman
(1972), caught my eye. It spoke to me for obvious reasons and for reasons not so obvious: the fact that I couldn’t try out for the baseball team even though I was a good hitter, because I was a girl; the fact that I was told to stay out of politics, radio, and medicine, all because I was a girl; and the fact that
no one thought anything about those limitations , because it was normal back then to restrict the expectations of girls. Sure, women all over the country, all over the world, were fighting for women’s rights at that point, but the fight was just beginning, and if you mentioned them, you must be one of those bra burners, those wimmen’s libbers, those feministas, all of which sounded really, really bad.
An Unsuitable Job for a Woman . Every job I wanted was unsuitable. Everything I wanted to do was “for boys, honey,” as my mother would gently tell me. Stubborn, resistant girl that I was, I ignored it all. So I picked up James’ book and read it cover to cover.
A confession now: I haven’t re-read that novel in preparation for this essay. I had planned to. Well, actually, I had planned to look through my shelf and find something really obscure, something so forgotten that people would slap their foreheads and go,
Oh, yeah! I read that!
So I can’t tell you how old-fashioned this P.D. James book is or if it still holds up by modern standards. (It’s P.D. James, so I’m secure in the knowledge that the characters are stellar, the plot good, and the writing fine. I’m just not sure if the politics are, um, politically correct.)
As I thought about The Rap Sheet’s request that I write about a really obscure book, I kept coming back to the James. No one discusses this novel of hers. Cordelia Grey, the heroine, is a one-off. James never revisited her, to my great disappointment.
I loved the book. The unsuitable job, of course, was that of a private detective. Cordelia Grey wasn’t one of those faintly
Gothic heroines who fell in love with the man who abused her. She took charge, even when it was hard, and she did things women weren’t supposed to do.
I adored that. So, years later, when I started reading the history of the modern detective novel, and I saw mentions of the largely unsung women who had started the modern female detective subgenre, I was happy. I read about
Margaret Maron , who--let’s be honest now--hasn’t ever completely gotten her due outside of the field. I read about
Sue Grafton , of course. And about
Sara Paretsky , whose writing is exceedingly political and the stronger for it. But all of those writers, at least to me, hark back to Cordelia Grey and her unsuitable job.
Yet no one mentions her anymore. Maybe because she was a one-off. Or maybe because she didn’t influence anyone but me.
My first female detective novel is nearly done. It has taken me 30 years to work up the courage to write about my own gender--at least at novel length. (I have written a number of women-centric short stories for
Alfred Hitchcock Mystery Magazine
and
Ellery Queen Mystery Magazine
under my real name, Kristine Kathryn Rusch.) It took me a long time to figure out why I waited to write about a female detective.
It’s because back in the day, I swallowed a lot of anger. I was furious that I--the most qualified candidate--couldn’t meet the United States senator and be considered for that job. I was furious that I had to relinquish a scholarship because of a personal choice that had nothing to do with academics and everything to do with my femaleness. I was furious at being barred from sports, at the sexual harassment that was common at my various jobs, at the casual sexism of my professors and mentors.
And I felt (I still feel) that fury does not make good fiction. Fury makes great speeches. Good fiction has great characters in a great story. Everything else is gravy--especially political points. Political points from a place of fury.
Maybe that’s what I admired most about
An Unsuitable Job for a Woman . The title hinted at that fury, but the fury was an undercurrent, barely there. Again, I haven’t re-read the book. I’m not sure if I would see the fury for what it is now, or if I just imagined it.
But it was there for me. Understated, important, and hidden beneath a good story.
For most of my life, I have aspired to write an emotional, political point beneath good storytelling. And I’ve aspired to it because of one book I might never have seen if I had kept that long-ago scholarship. If I hadn’t been in that bookstore, trying to earn my way through college.
I guess that’s a lesson. I’m here despite the limitations I faced. Or maybe because of them. I certainly wouldn’t have discovered Cordelia Grey without them.
Posted by
J. Kingston Pierce
at
8:57 AM
13
comments
Labels:
Books You Have to Read ,
P.D. James
Final Forgottens of the Year
With Christmas approaching (all too rapidly!) next week, it looks as if today will be the last official “forgotten books” tribute occasion until the first Friday of next year, January 7. Fortunately, there are some fine gems among this morning’s book suggestions, which you can read more about during the coming, quieter holiday times.
In addition to Kristine Kathryn Rusch’s write-up, on this page, about
An Unsuitable Job for a Woman , by P.D. James, crime fiction is well represented in
Red Christmas , by Patrick Ruell;
Red Diamond, Private Eye , by Mark Schorr;
The Jones Men , by Verne E. Smith;
Decoy , by Cleve F. Adams;
Glitterburn , by Heywood Gould;
A Touch of Death , by Charles Williams;
The Crime at Diana’s Pool , by Victor Alonzo Whitechurch;
Jake Strait, Bogeyman , by Frank Rich;
Sleight of Body , by Ralph McInerney;
Baby Moll , by John Farris; and several titles from
John Dickson Carr .
A full accounting of today’s recommended reads is available in series organizer
Patti Abbott’s personal blog .
Posted by
J. Kingston Pierce
at
8:49 AM
0
comments
Thursday, December 16, 2010
He Laughed Last
I bow my head today in appreciation of American screenwriter, director, and producer
Blake Edwards , who died yesterday at age 88. In addition to his many big-screen pictures-- Breakfast at Tiffany's
(1961),
Days of Wine and Roses
(1962),
The Pink Panther
(1963),
The Great Race
(1965),
10
(1979), and
Victor, Victoria
(1982)--Edwards was responsible for two memorable mid-20th-century TV detective dramas:
Richard Diamond, Private Detective
(1957-1960), starring
David Janssen ; and
Peter Gunn
(1958-1961), with Craig Stevens.
There are plenty of worthy tributes to Edwards appearing on the Web, including obituaries in
The New York Times ,
The Washington Post , and the blog
Edward Copeland on Film . Rather than duplicate their information, I’d like to celebrate the man by showcasing some of the work he brought to the silver screen. Below, I have embedded the trailers from three of my favorite Edwards films: the original
Pink Panther ;
Victor, Victoria
(in which he directed his wife, singer-actress Julie Andrews); and a less-well-known picture, 1988’s
Sunset , which teamed Bruce Willis (playing early western film star
Tom Mix ) with
James Garner
(as onetime lawman
Wyatt Earp ) in an adventure/crime drama about prostitution, movie-making, and murder in 1920s Hollywood.
Edwards died in Santa Monica, California, apparently from “complications of pneumonia.” But thanks to his abundant film and TV work, and despite some negative reviews of his later work, he’s unlikely to be forgotten.
And because any day that offers helpings of both
Audrey Hepburn
and composer
Henry Mancini
has to be considered worth living, here’s a bonus clip from
Breakfast at Tiffany’s , featuring the song with which that romantic flick is most closely associated (even though--amazingly--it wasn’t included in
the trailer .)
READ MORE:
“ The Late Great Blake Edwards ,” by Mercurie (A Shroud of Thoughts); “ Blake Edwards and Crime ,” by Michael Carlson
(Irresistible Targets).
Posted by
J. Kingston Pierce
at
4:53 PM
5
comments
Labels:
Obits 2010 ,
Videos
Tracking Travis
Now, you might expect a blog called Pornokitsch to be deep into other subjects than crime fiction. However, for the last several months Pornokitsch contributor
Jared Shurin has been reviewing all of John D. MacDonald’s 21
Travis McGee
novels in order of their publication. Today he offers
his comments
(not terribly enthusiastic) on
Free Fall in Crimson
(1981). He has only two more McGee books to go:
Cinnamon Skin
(1982) and
The Lonely Silver Rain
(1985).
You’ll find all of the reviews
here . Shurin’s posts would be valuable especially to readers who haven’t dipped much into McDonald’s series about Florida salvage expert-cum-detective McGee.
Posted by
J. Kingston Pierce
at
3:45 PM
1 comments
Labels:
John D. MacDonald
Due Consideration
As the previous
winner of a Spinetingler Award , I have a special place in my heart for these commendations, which are given out annually by
Spinetingler Magazine . So when I read this morning that “the reading period for the novel, short fiction, and comic/graphic novel categories of the 2011 Spinetingler Awards are now open,” I wanted to pass the word along. You’ll find the entry details
here .
Posted by
J. Kingston Pierce
at
3:08 PM
0
comments
Wednesday, December 15, 2010
Drawn to Danger
From
The Outfit , Darwyn Cooke and IDW Publishing
(Editor’s note: A couple of months ago, we asked
Gary Phillips , the Shamus Award-nominated creator of Los Angeles private eye
Ivan Monk
and the author of the recently published novella,
The Underbelly , to write on this page about his latest effort in the field of graphic-novel writing,
giving Depression-era super-spy Operator 5 new life
as the back-up feature in Moonstone’s
Spider
#1, which is due out in January. He has since written stories for Moonstone about a black pulp character he created called
Decimator Smith , and worked on bringing back swinging ’60s freelance spy
Derek Flint . With 2010 soon coming to a close, we asked Phillips to choose his favorite crime and mystery graphic novels of the year. His picks are below.)
The following is by no means an exhaustive overview, but I’ve tried to offer what I presume is The Rap Sheet’s mostly mystery prose-reading audience a flavor of what’s out there in the world of crime and mystery graphic novels. Take a gander and see what you think.
Fogtown , by Anderson Gabrych and Brad Rader (Vertigo Crime)
Fogtown , by writer Anderson Gabrych and artist Brad Rader, is one in a series of digest-size, hardcover, black-and-white graphic novels being produced by Vertigo Crime, a subdivision of DC Comics’
Vertigo
line of edgy comics (such as
Hellblazer , filmed as
Constantine , and
Sweet Tooth , about a kid with antlers and no navel in a post-plague America).
Full disclosure: A few years ago I wrote a private-eye mini-series for DC/Vertigo called
Angeltown
(now collected as one book, with new added material, and due out in March from Moonstone as
Angeltown: The Nate Hollis Investigations ). I also have an original graphic novel,
Cowboys
(with art by the talented Brian Hurtt), coming from Vertigo’s crime line in July 2011.
That said, rest assured that I don’t get a cut off of
Fogtown ’s sales, so trust me here. I really dug the story and art in this book. It’s set in 1953 San Francisco and the set-up is familiar: à la
Jack the Ripper , a madman is gutting prostitutes in the city’s Tenderloin district as the fog rolls in heavy and menacing off the bay. Tougher than a West Texas boot, middle-aged private eye Frank Grissel gets immersed in finding out who this murderer is, while Gabrych and Rader give us a look and feel of ’50s Bay Area Americana. Grissel intentionally comes off as a riff on
Mickey Spillane ’s Mike Hammer with an extra dose of testosterone. But the joy of this graphic novel is how Gabrych offers distractions and diversions as the secrets of the case and Grissel’s life are revealed.
If you remember from the first Hammer novel,
I, the Jury
(1947), there was this head-shrinking, ball-busting psychiatrist-villain, Dr. Charlotte Manning. Gabrych sends her and several other tough-guy ’50s paperback-original troupes out for a new spin in this story. Rader’s somewhat cartoony style is not an approach I usually respond to, but it works here, given the bluntness of the tale and its characters. Think Robert Aldrich’s treatment of Spillane’s material in
Kiss Me Deadly
(1955).
Fogtown
is a graphic novel well worth the price of admission.
Box 13 , by David Gallaher and Steve Ellis (Red 5 Comics)
Movie star Alan Ladd led the cast of the syndicated half-hour series
Box 13 , which ran for 52 episodes over a year on the radio (1948 to 1949). He played
Dan Holiday , a reporter turned novelist, who was constantly in search of ideas for his future books (a concept not dissimilar from that of the current ABC-TV series
Castle ). Holiday ran an advertisement in the classified section of the newspaper he used to work for, which read:
“Adventure wanted! Will go anywhere, do anything. Write Box 13, c/o
Star-Times .” Holiday would invariably be contacted by all sorts of people and fall into various oddball and dangerous adventures.
In this year’s
Box 13
graphic novel, by writer David Gallaher and artist Steve Ellis, Dan Holiday has become a spy novelist, who also has done a non-fiction book about mind-control programs such as
MK-ULTRA , conducted by the CIA in the mid-20th century. Somebody named Suzie (which was the name of Holiday’s secretary in the radio show) has been leaving this Holiday small wooden boxes with numbers on their lids, beginning with 1. Every time Holiday opens one of these boxes, lights and funny symbols float up out of it (shades of the atomic light in the trunk in
Kiss Me Deadly
that Quentin Tarantino paid homage to in
Pulp Fiction ) and something haywire is trigged inside of him. Holiday’s eyes go red, a gray streak appears in his hair, and suddenly the mild-mannered writer can leap from a car roof onto a building’s fire escape and shoot a pistol better than the
Punisher . Then there’s the alluring and mysterious Olivia Mayfair (her last name being the same as that of Ladd’s production company, which was behind his radio show) ... But I shall say no more about her. Holiday also has these peculiar blackout spells, from which he wakes up in locations such as the East River and a hospital ward straight out of a Terry Gilliam flick.
While this printed version of
Box 13
was published in early 2010, the original story ran as a serial Webcomic for the iPhone from
ComiXology.com
back in 2009. Each chapter break is designed to end on a cliffhanger, so the reader will come back for more. Gallaher does an excellent job of pacing and characterization, but he could have taken the time to do some re-engineering of the ending for the print version. Although it’s meant to be ambiguous, it is a bit too fuzzy and not as coherent as it could be. Ellis’ artwork has a kind of loose-limbed style that grew on me, and the way he draws facial expressions is well-suited to the creeping, sweating paranoia of
Box 13 .
Nola , by Pierluigi Cothran and Damian Couceiro, from an unproduced screenplay by Chris Gorak (Boom! Studios)
Set just before and after
Hurricane Katrina
devastated New Orleans in the summer of 2005, this story focuses on Nola Thomas, a bi-racial Southern beauty out for blood. It’s not giving too much away to tell you that the set-up is she’s been having an affair with a white married man, and she has no qualms about that situation. What she does find
disconcerting is, one warm evening as they’re leaving a roadside joint after making love in the storeroom, he tosses off this cold-hearted admonishment: “Sugar, we’re screwin,’ not dating.”
That’s messed up.
Matters go further downhill from there, and soon our girl winds up underneath a wrecked Mercedes-Benz as her erstwhile lover sets its leaking pool of gas on fire and leaves her to die--’cause she’s just too much goddamn trouble. Only she doesn’t actually cash in her chips, and in the days after the hurricane lays waste to that blue city in the red state of Louisiana, Nola cuts a vicious swath, exacting vengeance upon the man who wronged her, while along the way she resurrects a past involving her long-gone daddy and secrets best left undisturbed.
There is a bit too much coincidence of plot in
Nola . But I liked that its elliptical structure--parts of the story come from the immediate past, then the action loops to the present, then back again--echoed the 1967 motion picture
Point Blank
(adapted from
Donald E. Westlake /Richard Stark’s novel
The Hunter ) as well as 1999’s
The Limey
(which consciously borrowed from that previous film).
Nola
bears a rough-hewn character that comes across both in its dialogue and in Couceiro’s unadorned art, which ain’t pretty, but is certainly suitable in establishing this story’s verisimilitude. Colorist Juan Manual Tumburus earns an honorable mention for his earthy, muddy palate, which aptly conveys
Nola ’s post-deluge New Orleans.
Parker: The Outfit , by Darwyn Cooke (IDW Publishing)
Let me say straight away that I am extremely jealous of writer, artist, and cartoonist
Darwyn Cooke . The reason I became an author, trying to paint pictures with words, was due to my inability to draw. When I was a kid, there was nothing more I wanted to do than to write and illustrate my own comics.
Anyway, this adaptation of Westlake/Stark’s
The Outfit
(1963), the third novel featuring the non-hero and thief known only as Parker, is the second such venture the talented Mr. Cooke has undertaken. Last year he gave us
his take on the first Parker novel ,
The Hunter , set in 1962 New York, just as the original book was.
The Outfit
opens in Miami Beach, Florida, in 1963, with a nice allusion to a scene from
The Hunter , in which Parker is shot in bed by his girlfriend after they’ve made love. Cooke’s
Outfit
likewise begins in the boudoir. A down-angled full-page panel shows a woman, Bett, in bed looking aghast after the pillow next to her is hit by a silenced bullet. The words read: “When the woman screamed, Parker awoke and rolled off the bed.” Parker, however, is not visible on this page.
Picking up here on the lean prose of the Parker books, Cooke uses short-hand dialogue and blocks of expositional text, which are not often employed in comics. His color palette is limited to black lines, solid blacks, and grayish-purple tones. (In 2009’s
Parker: The Hunter , his tone was, instead, a grayish-green.) Cooke’s style of anatomy (which clearly evidences his background in cartoon storyboarding) is not everybody’s cup of bourbon, but I think he does a bang-up job of evoking the look and feel of his yarn’s time period and conveying Parker’s cold anger. For my money, he does the memory and work of Mr. Westlake proud.
* * *
SO WHAT DO YOU THINK?
Those of us at The Rap Sheet are curious to know whether readers of crime, mystery, and thriller novels are also attracted to graphic books that tell similar stories. If you haven’t tried out graphic novels in the crime and mystery field before, has the above sampling encouraged you to do so? Are retailers such as the Mystery Bookstore and Book Soup in Los Angeles smart to include graphic novels among their stock, or are the audiences for these two media non-overlapping? We encourage you to share your responses to these questions in the Comments section of this post.
READ MORE:
“ The Fall (and Rise) of the Crime Comic ,” by Brian Lindemuth (Mulholland Books).
Posted by
Gary Phillips
at
11:17 AM
6
comments
Bullet Points: Christmas Rushed Edition
• A fitting tribute to Ian Fleming:
Jamaica’s present Boscobel Airstrip, located in the northeastern parish of
Saint Mary
and used principally by private jets, will soon be upgraded, expanded, and
renamed after the creator of super-spy James Bond . Fleming lived in Saint Mary Parish during his retirement in the late 1950s and early ’60s.
• Patti Abbott has pulled something of a surprise
on the followers of her recent
round-robin short-fiction challenge . As she explains, “I was originally going to end this challenge myself next week,” but after receiving the
11th installment , from blogger Dan Fleming, “it seemed like the perfect ending. My piece would be redundant at best.” You can catch up on the full run of that progressive story
here .
•
A very special Christmas episode
... of
The Avengers ?
•
Dragnet
pays its own tribute
to the holiday.
• I missed
this post
when it was put up last month, but I think author Ed Gorman’s distinction between detective novelists Ross Macdonald and John D. MacDonald is right on. And judging by the comments attached to his remarks, I’m not alone.
• Have you ever wanted to listen
to an interview with acclaimed California writer Don Winslow ( The Dawn Patrol ,
Savages )? Well, this is your chance, as he answers questions from Jeff Rutherford. Listen
here .
• Scottish novelist Irvine Welsh ( Trainspotting )
chooses “five great crime novels,”
all but one of which I’ve read. (Hat tip to
Campaign for the American Reader .)
• Anyone up for a
David Goodis memorial ? It is scheduled to be held on January 11, 2001--the 40th anniversary of that author’s death--at his graveside in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania?
• From today’s edition of
Salon :
“Stieg Larsson and Dan Brown novels are riddled with clichés, but for many readers, that’s a feature not a bug.” Really? More
here .
• New England author William G. Tapply
died of leukemia in July 2009 , but Skyhorse Publishing still has one more posthumous novel of his to release. It’s called
The Nomination
and will reach bookstores in late January of next year.
• It’s not crime fiction , but since the mastermind behind it is crime-fiction blogger Cullen Gallagher (Pulp Serenade), his
marathon tribute to the Gold Medal western novels
deserves a mention on this page. Authors whose work has so far been considered include Harry Whittington, Donald Hamilton, and Jonas Ward (aka William Ard).
•
Another book cover to admire .
• South African writer Roger Smith
has been
draped in bouquets
by international crime fiction authority Peter Rozovsky for his novel
Wake Up Dead . I still haven’t gotten around to reading that book (the U.S. paperback version
isn’t due out till next month ), but we can all get a sense of Smith’s literary style by reading his short story, “Ishmael Toffee,” which has
just been posted here .
• No wonder Americans think
Republicans are obstructionists
and
out of touch
with current economic realities
...
• A remarkable recap:
Do the Math
presents
an annotated rundown of “all of
Donald E. Westlake ’s major fiction, his lone book of reportage, and three important essays.”
•
Remaindered , the
short independent film
directed by author-screenwriter Lee Goldberg, which
I wrote about in October , “has been chosen as an official selection of the 2011 Derby City Film Festival in Louisville, Kentucky,”
according to Goldberg’s blog .
• Roger “R.J. Ellory, author of
The Anniversary Man
and
Saints of New York ,
answers Declan Burke’s questions about which crime novel he would most like to have written, his most satisfying writing moment, his present reading, and more
here .
• The prolific Max Allan Collins is pushing
to finish work on another unpublished Mickey Spillane novel,
The Consummata , at the same time as he polishes off the preliminary research on
Ask Not , his latest Nate Heller detective novel, this one based around the 1963 assassination of President John F. Kennedy. Find out more
here .
• Steve Holland offers a
two - part
gallery
of Ngaio Marsh book covers.
• R.I.P.,
Richard Holbrooke .
The skilled and veteran diplomat, who oversaw negotiations to end the war in Bosnia, was often mentioned as the leading candidate to become Secretary of State under a President Al Gore, and who President Obama appointed as his special envoy for Afghanistan and Pakistan,
died Monday night
after surgery to repair a tear to his aorta. He was 69 and will be much missed.
Posted by
J. Kingston Pierce
at
9:37 AM
1 comments
Blow Out Your Candles, Mr. Link
I want to take a moment this morning to wish screenwriter and TV producer  William Theodore Link
the happiest of 77th birthdays. The co-creator (with his longtime writing partner,
Richard Levinson ) of such winning series as
Columbo ,
Mannix , and
Ellery Queen , and the author of this year’s delightful short-story work,
The Columbo Collection , Link was born on this date in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, back in 1933.
I had the opportunity to speak with Link earlier this year, and posted the results of our length exchange
in The Rap Sheet .
If you would like to wish Link a happy birthday today, just drop a message into the Comments section of this post. I’ll let him know to look there.
Posted by
J. Kingston Pierce
at
6:29 AM
3
comments
Labels:
Columbo
Monday, December 13, 2010
Fresh Starts
For the last couple of years, I’ve taken up a task originally proposed by Brian Lindenmuth, now of
Spinetingler Magazine . He suggested that, in December, book bloggers should
compile lists of authors whose work they’d read for the first time during the preceding 12 months. This might encourage others to try something new as well.
It has certainly been interesting to track my “discoveries.” This year I read roughly half and half old and new books, and multiple works from authors such as
Erle Stanley Gardner ,
William Campbell Gault ,
Ellery Queen , and Ernest Tidyman (whose
John Shaft
private-eye stories are, in my opinion, far better than the movies made from them). Of the 2010 releases I’ve enjoyed since New Year’s Day, more than a third came from first-time scribblers or wordsmiths whose efforts I had not previously sampled.
To begin, here’s my 2010 reading list of novels by authors new to me. Debut works are boldfaced. Asterisks denote crime or thriller fiction.
•
Rachel Brady ( Dead Lift )*
•
Massimo Carlotto ( Bandit Love )*
•
Dan Chaon ( Await Your Reply )
•
Sam Eastland ( The Eye of the Red Tsar )*
• Lyndsay Faye ( Dust and Shadows )*
•
Carl Férey ( Zulu )*
•
Matthew Flaming ( The Kingdom of Ohio )
•
Leighton Gage ( Dying Gasp )*
• Ernesto Gallo ( Needle in a Haystack )*
•
William Campbell Gault ( The Dead Seed )*
• Anna Katharine Green ( The Leavenworth Case )*
•
Sara Gruen ( Water for Elephants )
• Ellen Horan ( 31 Bond Street )*
• D.E. Johnson ( The Detroit Electric Scheme )*
• Thomas Kaufman ( Drink the Tea )*
•
Michael Lawrence ( I Like It Cool )*
•
William Link
( The Columbo Collection )*
• Jassy Mackenzie ( Random Violence )*
• Ernesto Mallo ( Needle in a Haystack )*
• Kevin McCarthy ( Peeler )*
•
Deon Meyer ( Thirteen Hours )*
•
Mark Mills ( The Information Officer )*
•
Zygmunt Miłoszewski ( Entanglement )*
• Graham Moore ( The Sherlockian )*
•
Peter Quinn ( The Man Who Never Returned )*
•
Adam Ross ( Mr. Peanut )*
•
Mark Sanderson ( Snow Hill )*
•
Kelli Stanley ( City of Dragons )*
• James Thompson ( Snow Angels )*
• Keith Thomson ( Once a Spy ) *
• Ernest Tidyman ( Shaft )*
And below you will find my roster of non-fiction works by writers I had never taken the opportunity to read before.
•
Joseph J. Ellis ( His Excellency:
George Washington )
•
Neil Hanson ( Monk Eastman: The Gangster Who Became a War Hero
•
Michael F. Holt ( Franklin Pierce )
•
Jeffrey H. Jackson ( Paris Under Water:
How the City of Light Survived the
Great Flood of 1910 )
• Edward P. Kohn ( Hot Time in the Old Town: The Great Heat Wave of 1896 and the Making of Theodore Roosevelt )
•
James T. Kloppenberg ( Reading Obama: Dreams, Hope, and the American Political Tradition )
• James Mauro ( Twilight at the World of Tomorrow: Genius, Madness, Murder, and the 1939 World’s Fair on the Brink of War )
Usually, my annual breakdown is fairly well balanced between fiction and non-fiction, with a heavy emphasis on historical studies. This year, though, the scales tipped decidedly in favor of fiction, for reasons I can’t explain. I shall have to do better in 2011.
WHAT WERE YOUR DISCOVERIES?
Anyone else who would like to try the “first reads” exercise is welcome to drop their list into the Comments section of this post. Or, if you make a list on your own blog, please provide a URL here, so that we can all visit it.
READ MORE:
“ Fresh Starts ,” by Gary M. Dobbs (The Tainted Archive).
Posted by
J. Kingston Pierce
at
5:03 PM
8
comments
Labels:
First Reads
In Process
• This week’s new story
in
Beat to a Pulp
is called “ Believe ,” and comes from New York writer Lina Zeldovich.
• Today brings us Part 8
of the Top Suspense group’s big
tag-team fiction project , which asks readers to identify the authors of the 12 individual chapters.
Click here
to read the new installment of “The Chase.” This project should conclude on Friday.
• Finally, in celebration of this holiday season ,
Mystery Readers Journal
editor Janet Rudolph is posting a humongous, multi-part list of seasonally appropriate crime and thriller novels in her Mystery Fanfare blog. Titles beginning with A-D can be found
here ; E-H listings are available
here ;
click here
for I-N; O-R is
here ; and look
here
for books whose titles begin with the letters S-Z.
Posted by
J. Kingston Pierce
at
1:51 PM
0
comments
Right to the Point
The Winter 2010 issue of
Needle: A Magazine of Noir
is now available. You’ll find a preview of the issue
here , with ordering info
here .
Posted by
J. Kingston Pierce
at
1:37 PM
0
comments
Sunday, December 12, 2010
Tony Goes A-Roamin’
Had he not died back in 1998, today would have been singer-actor
Frank Sinatra ’s 95th birthday. To celebrate, we’ve embedded (above) the trailer for his 1967 detective film,
Tony Rome . That picture was adapted for the screen from Marvin H. Albert’s 1960 novel,
Miami Mayhem , the first of three novels featuring
Miami private eye Rome .
In his original review of the movie, critic Roger Ebert
wrote :
Sinatra is no Bogart, which won’t come as news, and
Tony Rome
is no
Maltese Falcon .
But it plays the detective game by the rules, and that’s something.
In well-made detective movies, you have a plot, a real, honest-to-goodness plot. No gimmicks. No neo-Nazi villains in underwater pads. No exploding cigarette lighters. Just a detective, who is a hard-working, hard-drinking guy who has been unlucky with dames and plays the horses and has a lot of cynical dialog.
This guy gets involved in a seemingly innocent job, like tracing somebody’s lost husband or escorting a drunken daughter home to her millionaire daddy. Then it turns out that something valuable is missing. It can be a Maltese falcon or a diamond ring or anything just so it’s something that (quavering violin in echo chamber) Men Will Kill For.
Then you have to have intrigue and physical danger and a few surprising plot twists. You have to have a sympathetic character or two: really straight people who are trying to do the best thing, but their past is against them. Then you have to have the detective playing it tough and cynical and getting knocked around, but occasionally revealing a glimmer of human warmth in his heart.
Tony Rome
does this, and to call it a typical detective movie is not an insult.
It has been a long while since I last watched
Tony Rome
(with its theme song by Sinatra’s daughter,
Nancy ), but the “classic film blog,” Out of the Past, celebrates this movie with some “ pretty darn cool ” stills.
Sinatra went on to make one more Rome picture,
Lady In Cement
(1968). It co-starred Raquel Welch and Dan Blocker (of
Bonanza
fame), but was, unfortunately, a rip-off of Raymond Chandler’s
Farewell, My Lovely , with further suggestions of John D. MacDonald’s 1966 Travis McGee novel,
Darker Than Amber .
READ MORE:
“ Tony Rome ,” by Marty McKee (Johnny LaRue’s
Crane Shot).
Posted by
J. Kingston Pierce
at
4:24 PM
1 comments
Labels:
Birthdays 2010
“You’re Santa. Respect the Suit!”
Fans of TNT-TV’s  Leverage
undoubtedly know this already, but the first of three new episodes of that series, which follows a group of justice-minded thieves and con men, will debut tonight at 9 p.m. ET/PT. A sneak peak of “The Ho Ho Ho Job” is available
here .
By the way, these three episodes--the last two of which are scheduled to show back to back next Sunday, December 19--will conclude
Leverage ’s third season. The series
has already been renewed
for a fourth season, to begin sometime in mid-2011.
Posted by
J. Kingston Pierce
at
3:36 PM
0
comments
And Then They Were Gone
With end-of-the-year tributes and “best books” lists now proliferating on the Web, it seems the appropriate time to remember some of the fine crime-fiction-related folk we’ve lost over the last 12 months:
Albert Cornelis “A.J.” Baantjer , 86, the creator of a long-running series of novels featuring Amsterdam police inspector Jurriaan DeCock (aka DeKok) and his sidekick, Sergeant Vledder.
Eleanor Taylor Bland , 65, the author of 13 police procedurals featuring African-American Chicago police homicide detective Marti MacAlister.
Tom Bosley , 83, who starred as Howard Cunningham on the TV sitcom
Happy Days , and as Father Frank Dowling on
Father Dowling Mysteries .
Knox Burger , 87, a magazine editor turned book editor turned literary agent who assisted the writing careers of John D. MacDonald, Martin Cruz Smith, Max Allan Collins, Robert Terrall, Donald E. Westlake, and others.
Stephen J. Cannell , 69, the TV writer and producer behind such popular programs as
The Rockford Files ,  City of Angels ,  The A-Team ,  Wiseguy , and
Hardcastle and McCormick . He also composed the detective Shane Scully series of novels ( The Prostitute’s Ball ).
Maury Chaykin , 61, who starred as Rex Stout’s most famous sedentary sleuth in the A&E-TV drama
A Nero Wolfe Mystery .
Ernest Chiriaka , 96, an American artist who--using the moniker “Darcy”--became famous during the mid-20th century for his often sexually suggestive but consistently captivating cover illustrations for paperback crime novels.
Jon Cleary , 92, Ned Kelly Award-winning Australian novelist who wrote a long-running series starring Scobie Malone, a detective with the New South Wales police force.
Robert Culp , 79, who co-starred with Bill Cosby in the small-screen series  I Spy
and appeared in three episodes of
Columbo .
Tony Curtis , 85, who is remembered best for his film roles in
Some Like It Hot ,  The Defiant Ones , and  The Boston Strangler , but also featured in a trio of TV crime dramas:  The Persuaders!  (1971), the short-lived  NBC Mystery Movie  component
McCoy  (1975-1976), and the Robert Urich detective series
Vega$
(1978-1981).
Clare Curzon
(née Eileen-Marie Duell Buchanan), 88, a British novelist best known for writing the  Superintendent Mike Yeadings mysteries , including
Three-Core Lead
(1988).
Kenn Davis , 77, a California painter and the creator of black San Francisco private eye  Carter Bascombe .
Dino De Laurentiis , 91, Italian-born film producer responsible for such hits as
Serpico  (1973),  Death Wish  (1974),  Three Days of the Condor  (1975), and
Hannibal Rising  (2006). He was also behind the 1976-1977
TV version of
Serpico .
A.S. “Sid” Fleischman , 90, a writer who first became known for producing sexually suggestive mystery novels such as
Danger in Paradise  (1953) and  The Venetian Blonde  (1963), but later penned children’s books on the order of
The Whipping Boy
(1987).
John Forsyth , 92, who played the wealthy patriarch in
Dynasty
and provided the voice of unseen private-eye agency chief Charlie Townsend on the 1970s series  Charlie’s Angels .
Dick Francis , 89, the British jockey turned crime writer, who turned out more than 40 novels, mostly with horse-racing backdrops.
James Gammon , 70, the gravelly voiced American character actor who played a miserable baseball club manager in the film
Major League
(1989), was often cast in Sam Shepherd plays, and portrayed Don Johnson’s father on the 1996-2001 TV crime drama
Nash Bridges
(even though he was only nine years older than Johnson).
Jackson Gillis , 93, a novelist ( Killers of Starfish
and
Chain Saw ) as well as a longtime TV screenwriter who contributed to
The Adventures of Superman ,
Perry Mason ,
Columbo ,  Mannix ,  Ironside ,  The Snoop Sisters
and many more shows.
Harold Gould , 86, who played con man Kid Twist in  The Sting
and starred, with Stefanie Powers, in the short-lived ABC-TV mystery series  The Feather and Father Gang
(1976-1977).
Peter Graves , 83, who starred as spy chief Jim Phelps on
Mission: Impossible , but also appeared in the role of Los Angeles private eye Lew Archer in the 1974 TV pilot film  The Underground Man .
Raymond Hawkey , 80, a graphic designer for Britain’s
Daily Express
and
Observer
newspapers, who created covers for the novels of Len Deighton, Ian Fleming, and Richard Stark (aka Donald E. Westlake). Hawkey also wrote three thrillers, as The Gumshoe Site
recalls : “ Wild Card
(Cape, 1974; with Roger Bingham);
Side-Effect
(Cape, 1979); and
It
(NEL, 1983; retitled
End Stage , Sphere, 1988).”
Lesley Himes , 82, journalist and the widow of  Chester Himes , “the father of black American crime writing.”
Laura Hruska , 74, co-founder and editor-in-chief of  Soho Press .
Elliott Kastner , 80, the film producer behind such pictures as
Where Eagles Dare  (1968),
Harper
(1966), and
The Long Goodbye , the 1973 big-screen adaptation of what may be Raymond Chandler’s finest novel.
James MacArthur , 72, who played cop Danny “Danno” Williams on the original
Hawaii Five-O
TV series.
David Markson , 82, post-modern novelist, author of
Wittgenstein’s Mistress ,
This Is Not a Novel , and a pair of crime-based works,
Epitaph for a Tramp
(1959) and
Epitaph for a Dead Beat
(1961) .
Kevin McCarthy , 96, perhaps best known for his feature role in
Invasion of the Body Snatchers
(1956), but also a guest star on such TV crime dramas as
The Defenders ,  Honey West ,
Burke’s Law ,  The Man from U.N.C.L.E. ,
Judd for the Defense , and
Columbo .
Ralph McInerney , 80, author of the Father Dowling mysteries, which became the basis for the aforementioned 1987-1992 TV series starring Tom Bosley and Tracy Nelson.
Don Meredith , 72, Dallas Cowboys quarterback, Monday Night Football broadcaster, and a recurring star on the anthology series
Police Story .
Len Moffatt , 87, who with his wife, June, founded and edited the
JDM Bibliophile , “the fanzine and journal dedicated to the study and discussion of the works of John D. MacDonald.”
Leslie Nielsen , 84, the actor who made a name for himself on the small-screen shows
The Bold Ones
and
Bracken’s World , as well as in dramatic films such as
Forbidden Planet
(1956) and
The Poseidon Adventure
(1972), before turning to comedic roles in television’s
Police Squad!
and the
Naked Gun
film series .
Peter O’Donnell , 90, the British-born comic-strip writer and creator of troubleshooter/action heroine  Modesty Blaise .
Robert B. Parker , 77, who created the character of Boston private eye
Spenser
and led him through a series of adventures (notably 1980’s
Looking for Rachel Wallace
and 1981’s
Early Autumn ) that spawned a TV series in the mid-1980s,
Spenser: For Hire .
Alan Plater , 75, a writer “with over two hundred assorted credits in radio, television, theater, and film--plus six novels,”
explains
the International Movie Database. Plater penned scripts for such TV series as
Z Cars ,
Cribb ,
The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes , and
The Return of Sherlock Holmes .
Kerry J. Schooley , 61, a Canadian author who co-edited (with Peter Sellers) the noir anthologies
Iced  (2001),  Hard-Boiled Love
(2003), and
Revenge  (2004), and under the pseudonym John Swan wrote noir fiction, including the novel
Sap  (2004).
David Thompson , 38, the co-owner of  Murder by the Book  in Houston, Texas, and publisher of Busted Flush Press.
David L. Wolper , 82, a TV and film producer who gave us the 1997 film  L.A. Confidential
as well as the 1970s TV crime drama
Get Christie Love! , which starred Teresa Graves.
Is there anybody of significance we have missed naming? Additions are certainly welcome in the Comments section of this post.
READ MORE:
“ In Memoriam: TV Stars We Lost in 2010 ,” by Bob Sassone (TV Squad); “ But That’s Not All, Folks ... ,” by Ivan G. Shreve Jr. (Thrilling Days of Yesteryear).
Posted by
J. Kingston Pierce
at
1:27 PM
6
comments
Labels:
Obits 2010
I’ll Be Doyle’d!
Remember
I Write Like , the computer program that analyzes a block of your text and tells you what famous author your style most resembles? The last time I tried it, the thing said that
I wrote like Jack London --which cheered me up no end.
With nothing to do but plow ahead on
my serial novel
this week, plus read and review dozens of books (they still arrive daily, in spite of my recent retirement after 50 years on the job; like Al Pacino said, “Just when I think I’m out, they drag me back in!”), I decided to submit
my recent blast at Arthur Conan Doyle .
Guess what? According to I Write Like, I now write like Conan Doyle himself! No shite, Sherlock--that’s what it says!
Posted by
dick adler
at
12:51 PM
0
comments
Friday, December 10, 2010
The Book You Have to Read:
“Money, Money, Money,” by Ed McBain
(Editor’s note: This is the 110th installment of
our ongoing Friday blog series
highlighting great but forgotten books. Today’s selection comes from Richard L. Pangburn, a resident of Bardstown, Kentucky, and the author/editor of a trio of out-of-print books on Native American
genealogy. He has been reviewing books on the Web since 1995 for Amazon, the Cormac McCarthy Society Forum, the now-defunct Readerville, and other sites.)
Ed McBain ’s 2001 novel,
Money, Money, Money , which begins on
Pearl Harbor Day , is a story that bridges the gap between the literary and his customary thriller/police procedurals. I think it was his best book.
It is a prophetic novel in many ways, having first been published in August 2001, not long before the terrorist attacks on New York City and Washington, D.C.. It is a book with the right title, in a very literary way describing the greed and addiction that afflict the American way of life. It also contains naturalistic symbols and, since the story stretches into Christmastime, McBain makes some darkly humorous holiday allusions as well.
Money
is an
87th Precinct
novel (the 51st in that series), but the focus in its opening pages is on a young woman, Cassandra Ridley, a veteran pilot in the first Iraq War, who’s now working as a messenger, flying a suitcase full of cash into a desolate canyon in Mexico, which she’ll exchange for a suitcase filled with cocaine.
She has already made some $200,000 for this, her fourth such trip, and the Mexicans give her a $10,000 bonus in cash. Returning to her home in the city (McBain’s not-too-disguised New York), she carefully launders her earnings through different bank accounts. But with her bonus money, Ridley buys herself a few nice things, including three genuine animal furs. Later, while wearing one of those coats, she crosses a picket line of animal-rights activists, cursing their cause.
That act earns her some very bad karma.
It isn’t long before a small-time burglar, one Wilbur Struthers, breaks into Ridley’s apartment to steal her furs. While there, he discovers her stash of thousands of dollars in bonus money. So excited is Struthers at making this big a haul, that he unknowingly drops his prescription reading glasses, in their case, and leaves them behind in her flat.
Not surprisingly, the lady is quite put out when she finds her furs and cash missing. She calls the police, who fill out a routine report, not inspiring confidence. But then she comes across those abandoned spectacles on her floor. Ridley uses them to track down the thief, confronts him at his home with her gun, and retrieves her furs and most of the dough. What she doesn’t know, though, is that Struthers has been confronted by the Secret Service, because he passed a counterfeit $100 bill in a bar--part of the bonus drug money he’d filched from Cass Ridley.
The next chapter begins with McBain’s series main protagonist, Detective Steve Carella, and his colleagues at the 87th Precinct, being called out to the local zoo, where a naked woman has been found half-eaten in the lions’ domain. McBain provides here some grisly naturalistic details--all in good fun, I think.
The lady being obviously dead, there ensues a debate over what to do with the animals--liberals among the zookeepers want to save them, but the conservatives at police headquarters send a SWAT team out with orders to shoot the lions en masse. But before the paramilitary guys show up, one of the lions, ineffectively shot with a tranquilizer dart, charges Carella, knocking him down and pressing on his shoulders, the animal’s face close enough that the cop can smell its breath, the breath of death. The lion appears ready to grab onto Carella’s head, when it is finally killed by Oliver Wendell “ Fat Ollie ” Weeks, another of the regular cops in McBain’s series.
Carella is shaken by this incident, but the lion is just a symbol of what really shakes him in these pages. McBain makes good use of psychology and literary nuance. Carella’s father has recently passed, and Carella is just now, in this book, trying to come to grips with his own mortality.
Some readers have complained
on Amazon’s Web site
that nice guy Steve Carella steps out of character in
Money , becoming a workaholic and coming down too hard on his family. I disagree. His character is consistent with someone who’s going through such a midlife crisis, and I thought the author handled it well.
By the way, the counterfeit money in this story comes straight out of history. During the mid-20th century, the United States had sold its political puppet, the last
Shah of Iran , money-making presses that were identical to those that produced greenbacks for the U.S. Mint. After the shah was deposed in 1979, Iranian revolutionaries went ahead and printed their own U.S. dollars, “super-bills,” which pumped billions into the struggling American economy.
The balance of this book details the investigation into the death of that woman--obviously, drug-runner Cass Ridley--in the lions’ den. It leads the 87th Precinct detectives first to a terror cell of Arabs busily planting a bomb in the city, and then on to the trail of money from them to Mexican drug smugglers, as well as the pipeline of drugs moving from Mexico into the big-city ghetto. One of the main adversaries here will remind you of psychopath
Anton Chigurh , from Cormac McCarthy’s
No Country for Old Men , but the complicity of evil exists at all levels.
McBain goes on to use the lion-motif as a symbol of naturalism in this novel. At the end, that lion appears as a Dick Cheney-like character spouting a diatribe about how ends justify the means for the CIA, and how the American people favor pre-emptive killing in order to quell their fears of being killed. (In other words, they allow fascism to be pressed upon them in a misguided attempt to escape the terrors of fascism.) It’s a heavy message, but getting to that point brings the reader plenty of laugh-aloud humor.
Money, Money, Money
is both a parable and a police mystery/thriller. That the book is so frequently overlooked may be due to its literary nuances and the timing of events.
Posted by
J. Kingston Pierce
at
8:10 AM
1 comments
Labels:
Books You Have to Read
Newer Posts
Older Posts
Home
Subscribe to:
Posts (Atom)
Just the Facts
Home
Introduction
Invitation to Authors
Submitting Review Copies
Advertising in The Rap Sheet
Author Web Sites/Blogs
Archive Sites
All Points Bulletin
Send Us News:
The Rap Sheet is always on the lookout for information about new and soon-forthcoming books, special author projects, and distinctive crime-fiction-related Web sites. Shoot us an e-mail note
here .
Text © 2006-2015 by The Rap Sheet or its individual contributors.
Rap Sheet logo by
David Middleton .
Subscribe to The Rap Sheet
Enter your e-mail address: Delivered by
FeedBurner
Subscribe in a Reader
Follow via Twitter
Follow via Facebook
If You Can, Please Help The Rap Sheet to Survive and Thrive
The Usual Suspects
J. Kingston Pierce, editor
Megan Abbott
Declan Burke
Mark Coggins
Michael Gregorio
Cameron Hughes
Ali Karim
Patrick Lennon
Brendan M. Leonard
Stephen Miller
Roger “R.N.” Morris
Jim Napier
Gary Phillips
Anthony Rainone
Linda L. Richards
Kevin Burton Smith
Jason Starr
David Thayer
Jim Winter
Search The Rap Sheet
Site search
Web search
powered by
FreeFind
The Morgue
The Morgue
November 2015 (1)
October 2015 (21)
September 2015 (26)
August 2015 (25)
July 2015 (31)
June 2015 (30)
May 2015 (33)
April 2015 (24)
March 2015 (25)
February 2015 (20)
January 2015 (19)
December 2014 (30)
November 2014 (25)
October 2014 (19)
September 2014 (29)
August 2014 (31)
July 2014 (25)
June 2014 (23)
May 2014 (28)
April 2014 (21)
March 2014 (24)
February 2014 (25)
January 2014 (36)
December 2013 (26)
November 2013 (21)
October 2013 (25)
September 2013 (36)
August 2013 (29)
July 2013 (31)
June 2013 (29)
May 2013 (38)
April 2013 (37)
March 2013 (35)
February 2013 (37)
January 2013 (28)
December 2012 (26)
November 2012 (24)
October 2012 (36)
September 2012 (37)
August 2012 (42)
July 2012 (44)
June 2012 (40)
May 2012 (41)
April 2012 (55)
March 2012 (49)
February 2012 (37)
January 2012 (47)
December 2011 (37)
November 2011 (55)
October 2011 (56)
September 2011 (57)
August 2011 (46)
July 2011 (45)
June 2011 (58)
May 2011 (62)
April 2011 (67)
March 2011 (60)
February 2011 (43)
January 2011 (66)
December 2010 (49)
November 2010 (66)
October 2010 (68)
September 2010 (93)
August 2010 (74)
July 2010 (63)
June 2010 (69)
May 2010 (79)
April 2010 (65)
March 2010 (77)
February 2010 (45)
January 2010 (61)
December 2009 (38)
November 2009 (64)
October 2009 (94)
September 2009 (69)
August 2009 (67)
July 2009 (71)
June 2009 (62)
May 2009 (84)
April 2009 (78)
March 2009 (64)
February 2009 (66)
January 2009 (66)
December 2008 (68)
November 2008 (53)
October 2008 (64)
September 2008 (73)
August 2008 (70)
July 2008 (69)
June 2008 (75)
May 2008 (76)
April 2008 (89)
March 2008 (72)
February 2008 (87)
January 2008 (89)
December 2007 (58)
November 2007 (73)
October 2007 (83)
September 2007 (78)
August 2007 (57)
July 2007 (73)
June 2007 (67)
May 2007 (104)
April 2007 (109)
March 2007 (83)
February 2007 (90)
January 2007 (111)
December 2006 (89)
November 2006 (121)
October 2006 (117)
September 2006 (68)
August 2006 (83)
July 2006 (73)
June 2006 (60)
May 2006 (28)
Fall-Winter Reading Picks
Check out our picks of more than 300 crime and thriller novels due out on both sides of the Atlantic between now and New Year’s Day.
Click here .
Rap Sheet Followers
Disclosure Notice
The Rap Sheet accepts books sent free of charge from publishers,
publicists, and authors. Those works may inspire comments on this page. However, in no case is there any promise given that a book will be the subject of an endorsement or review, either positive or negative.
General Crime Fiction
Alpha-60 Books
Anthony Neil Smith
Art & Literature
At the Scene of the Crime
At the Villa Rose
AustCrime
Battered, Tattered, Yellowed & Creased
Beneath the Stains of Time
Big Beat from Badsville
Bill Crider’s Pop Culture Magazine
Bill Peschel
Bish’s Beat
Bitter Tea and Mystery
Black Irish Blarney
The Bloodstained Bookshelf
BOLO Books
Bookgasm
Book Reviews by Elizabeth A. White
Brit Grit
The Bunburyist
Buzz, Balls & Hype
Campaign for the American Reader
Classic Mysteries
Clothes in Books
CluesSisters
Col Bury’s New Crime Fiction
Confessions of a Mystery Novelist
The Consulting Detective
The Corpse Steps Out
The Cozy Chicks
Crime Always Pays
Crime Beat (South Africa)
Crime Fiction Dossier
Crime Fiction from Poe Up to 1950
Crime Fiction Ireland
Crime Fiction Lover
A Crime Is Afoot
The Crime of It All
Crime Pays
Crimepieces
Crime Review
Crime Scene NI
Crime Scraps Review
The Crime Segments
CrimeSpace
CrimeSpot
Crimespree Magazine
Crime Thriller Girl
Crime Thriller Hound
Crime Time Preview
Crime Watch (New Zealand)
Crimeworm
Crimezine
Criminal Element
Criminal Minds
The Dark Pages
Dave’s Fiction Warehouse
Davy Crockett’s Almanack of Mystery, Adventure, and the Wild West
Deadly Diversions
Death by Killing
Death Can Read
Detectives Beyond Borders
DJ’s Krimiblog
Do Some Damage
Double O Section
‘Do You Write Under Your Own Name?’
The Drowning Machine
Dust & Corruption
Ed and Edgar
Ed Gorman’s Blog
The Education of a Pulp Writer
Elizabeth Spann Craig
Escape and Suspense!
Euro Crime
Euro Crime Blog
Existential Ennui
Existentialist Man
Fair Dinkum Crime
Femmes Fatales
Film Noir of the Week
George Kelley
Getting Medieval
Gravetapping
The Graveyard Shift
The Great Detectives of Old Time Radio
Grift Magazine
The Groovy Age of Horror
Gumshoe Review
The Gumshoe Site
Guns, Gams, and Gumshoes
Hardboiled Wonderland
Hey, There’s a Dead Guy in the Living Room
His Futile Preoccupations ....
The House of Crime and Mystery
How Mysterious!
The Hungry Detective
In Reference to Murder
In Search of the Classic Mystery Novel
In So Many Words ...
International Noir Fiction
Irresistible Targets
JAFO
January Magazine
Jen’s Book Thoughts
Jim Huang’s Blog
Joe Barone’s Blog
Johnny LaRue’s Crane Shot
Jungle Red Writers
Killer Books
Killing Time
The Kill Zone
Kirkus Reviews: Mysteries and Thrillers
Kupaki Headhunter Searching
for That Next Great Book
The Lady Killers
Lee Goldberg’s Blog
Lesa’s Book Critiques
Life, Death and Fog
Life in Metropolis
The Life Sentence
Little Big Crimes
Little Known Gems
Lost in Books
Marty’s Marquee
Material Witness
Mean Streets
Mellotone 70Up Blog
Men’s Pulp Mags
Meritorious Mysteries
Mike Dennis
Mr. Hardboiled
Mrs. Peabody Investigates
Ms. Wordopolis Reads
Mulholland Books Blog
Murder in Common
Murder Is Everywhere
My Life Called So
Mysteries and More from Saskatchewan
Mysteries in Paradise
Mysterious Matters: Mystery Publishing Demystified
Mysterious Musings
Mysterious Press Blog
Mysterious Writers
The Mystery Bookshelf
Mystery Fanfare
Mystery*File Blog
MysteryPeople
Mystery Readers International
Mystery Scene Blog
Myst Noir
Naked Authors
Nasty. Brutish. Short.
Neat, Clean, Shaved & Sober
Noah’s Archives
Nobody Move!
Noir Journal
No More Grumpy Bookseller
Nordic Bookblog
Not the Baseball Pitcher
Novel Heights
Off the Cuff
Omnimystery News
One Bite at a Time
Only Detect
Ontos
Out of the Gutter
The Passing Tramp
Pattinase
Paul D. Brazill
Permission to Kill
Picks by Pat
The Poisoned Martini
Pop Sensation
Pretty Sinister Books
The Psychopathology of Everyday Life
Pulp Curry
Pulp Den: Earl Norman and
Burns Bannion
Pulpetti
Pulp Fiction Reviews
Pulp Pusher
Pulp Serenade
Reading and Writing Podcast
Read Me Deadly
Reviewing the Evidence
Righting Crime Fiction
Rough Edges
Scandinavian Crime Fiction
Scene of the Crime
Scott Dennis Parker
Shots
Shotsmag Confidential
The Sirens of Suspense
Somebody Dies
Something Is Going to Happen
Sons of Spade
Speaking of Mysteries
Spinetingler Magazine
The Spy Command
Spy Vibe
Stop, You’re Killing Me!
Studies in Starrett
Tangled Web
Thrillers for You
The Thriller Guy
The Thrilling Detective Blog
The Thrilling Detective Web Site
Tipping My Fedora
Tip the Wink
Today in Mystery History
The Trap of Solid Gold
Type M for Murder
Vanished Into Thin Air
The Venetian Vase
The View from the Blue House
Up and Down These Mean Streets
Upfront: Sharon’s Mystery Reads
Vince Keenan
Weekly Lizard
The Westlake Review
Women of Mystery
Woody Haut’s Blog
The Write Answers
The Writer’s Forensics Blog
Yet Another Crime Fiction Blog
Zachary Klein: Just Sayin’
Periodicals
Alfred Hitchcock Mystery Magazine
All Due Respect
The Big Click
Blood & Tacos
Crime Factory
Crimespree Magazine
Crime Squad
Crime Time
Deadly Pleasures Mystery Magazine
Disenthralled
Ellery Queen Mystery Magazine
Futures Mystery Anthology Magazine
James Bond 007 Magazine
Mysterical-E
Mystery Scene
New Mystery Reader Magazine
Noir Nation
Over My Dead Body
The Strand Magazine
Suspense
ThugLit
Yellow Mama
Short Fiction/Poetry
Akashic Books
Bad Things
Beat to a Pulp
Burnt Bridge
CrimeWAV.com
The 5-2: Crime Poetry Weekly
Plan B Magazine
Plots With Guns
Pulp Metal Magazine
Shotgun Honey
Six Word Stories
Thrills, Kills ’n’ Chaos
About the Genre
Australian Crime Fiction Database
Black Mask
British Golden Age Detective Fiction
The Classic TV Archive: U.S. Crime Drama Series Guide
Coucoucircus: TV Show Themes
Cozy Mystery List
Crime Boss
Crimeculture
CrimeFictionCanada
Crime Fiction IV: A Comprehensive Bibliography, 1749-2000
Criminal History
DetNovel.com
Ellery Queen Mystery Magazine Covers
G.J. Demko’s Landscapes of Crime
Golden Age of Detection
Golden Gate Mysteries
A Guide to Classic Mystery and Detection
George Kelley Paperback and Pulp Fiction Collection
Hard-boiled Heaven
Hard-boiled Maryland
Historical Mystery Fiction
Irish Crime Writers
Italian Mysteries
Looking for a Mystery?
The Maywrite Library
Murder at 3 Cents a Day
Murder with Southern Hospitality
Mystery Time Line
Old Time Radio Mystery Theater
100 Favorite Mysteries of the 20th Century
Pulp Fiction Central
ThePulp.Net
Pulp Rack
Radio Detective Story Hour
Scandinavian Books
Scandinavian Crime Fiction in English
Spy Guys & Gals
Television Tunes
Twists, Slugs, and Roscoes: A Glossary of Hardboiled Slang
Ultimate Mystery Fiction Web Guide
World’s Best Detective, Crime, and Murder Mystery Books
Online Discussion Groups
Crime Thru Time
DetecToday
Dorothy-L
Rara-Avis
Writers’ Groups
American Crime Writers League
Australian Crime Writers Association
The Crime Writers’ Association (UK)
Crime Writers of Canada
Crime Writers of Scandinavia
Friends of Mystery
International Association of Crime Writers
International Thriller Writers
Mystery Readers International
Mystery Writers of America
Private Eye Writers of America
The Short Mystery Fiction Society
Sisters in Crime
Characters/Series
Absolutely Barnaby Jones
All Things Law & Order
Amelia Peabody
The Avengers TV
The Baker Street Blog
BernieGunther.com
Cagney & Lacey Official Site
Camden House: The Complete Sherlock Holmes
CBS Radio Mystery Theater
Charlie Chan
The Charlie Chan Family Home
Charlie’s Angels
Clerical Detectives
The Continental Op Page
Crime Story
David Addison and Maddie Hayes: Moonlighting
Diagnosis Murder
Diagnosis Murder UK
The Diogenes Club: A Sherlock Holmes Web Site
Droodiana
E Komo Mai: Hawaii Five-O Fan Club
Ellery Queen
Ellery Queen: The Sartorial Ellery Queen
Ellery Queen: A Web Site on Deduction
The Fans from U.N.C.L.E.
The Man from U.N.C.L.E. Episode Guide
The Fantômas Web Site
The FBI Episode Guide
Foyle’s War
The Fugitive
Gervase Fen: The Last Great Amateur Detective
The Harry O Page
Harry Palmer Movie Site
Have Gun--Will Travel Tribute
The Hawaii Five-O Home Page
I Hear of Sherlock Everywhere
Inspector Wallander
The International Sister Fidelma Society
Ironside’s Page
James Bond: Commander Bond
James Bond Dossier: Ultimate Guide to the James Bond Movies
James Bond: Illustrated 007
James Bond: K1Bond007
James Bond: MI6
James Bond: Licensed to Kill
Judge Dee
Judge Dee: The Mystery Novels of Robert van Gulik
Mack Bolan/Executioner
Magnum Mania!
Magnum, P.I. Official Web Site
Mars Investigations
Matt Helm: The Unofficial Home Page
Mike Longstreet
Modesty Blaise
The Modesty Blaise Book Covers
Modesty Blaise News
Mr. Moto
Nancy Drew
NBC Mystery Movie
NBC Mystery Movie Series Guide
The Nick Carter & Carter Brown Blog
The Outsider/Dave Ross
The Page of Fu Manchu
Perry Mason TV Series
The Perry Mason TV Show Book
The Psychology of Rex Stout, Nero Wolfe, and Archie Goodwin
The Quincy Examiner
Randall & Hopkirk (Deceased)
The Rockford Files Home Page
Search: World Securities Corporation
Sexton Blake
Sherlockian.net
The Sibyl & Sleuth
Simenon’s Inspector Maigret
Simon Templar, aka The Saint
Solar Pons
Steele Here!: Remington Steele
Travis McGee
Ultimate Charlie’s Angels
The Ultimate Columbo Site
Ultimate James Bond Fan Blog
The Unofficial Quiller Web Site
The Violent World of Parker
The Wolfe Pack
True Crime
Crime Library
Crime Magazine
Crime Rant
Crime Scene Blog
Deranged L.A. Crimes
L.A. Noir
LAPD Blog
L.A. Times Homicide Report
The Malefactor’s Register
Mikeb302000
Mind of a Killer
Murder by Gaslight
The Proceedings of the Old Bailey
Tickle the Wire
White Collar Wire
NBC Mystery Movie at 40
Back in the fall of 1971, NBC-TV introduced its most successful “wheel series,”
The NBC Mystery Movie . Look for our anniversary posts
here .
Which were your favorite
NBC Mystery Movie
series? (Vote for one or more.) Amy Prentiss Banacek Columbo Cool Million Faraday & Company Hec Ramsey Lanigan’s Rabbi Madigan McCloud McCoy McMillan & Wife Quincy, M.E. The Snoop Sisters Tenafly    Free polls from Pollhost.com
Videos Disclaimer
From time to time, The Rap Sheet features short video clips. Use of these is for historical and entertainment purposes only, and is not meant to establish ownership of such materials. Rights to those clips stay with their owners/creators.
The One Book Project
In honor of The Rap Sheet’s first birthday, we invited more than 100 crime writers, book critics, and bloggers from all over the English-speaking world to choose the one crime/mystery/thriller novel that they thought had been “most unjustly overlooked, criminally forgotten, or underappreciated over the years.” Their choices can be found
here .
The Wayback Machine
Before The Rap Sheet was a blog, it was a monthly newsletter in
January Magazine.
To find all the old editions of that newsletter, just
click here .
Visit
CrimeSpace
Your Vigilance Is Requested
Those of us responsible for The Rap Sheet try to get everything right, and we work to keep our Web links up to date. But we’re not perfect. So, if you spot any errors (typographical or otherwise) in this blog, or discover links or embedded videos that aren’t functioning properly, please
let us know via e-mail .
Check Out Our YouTube Channel
Selected Labels
Agatha Christie
(18)
Alistair MacLean
(4)
Anniversaries 2015
(8)
Arthur Conan Doyle
(21)
Awards 2014
(79)
Awards 2015
(71)
Banacek
(6)
Barry Forshaw
(9)
Best Books 2013
(7)
Best Books 2014
(19)
Best Covers
(15)
Best Crime Drama Openers
(19)
Bill Pronzini
(5)
Bloody Scotland 2013
(5)
Bondiversaries
(9)
Books You Have to Read
(137)
Bookstore Closures
(15)
Bouchercon 2008
(10)
Bouchercon 2009
(18)
Bouchercon 2010
(22)
Bouchercon 2011
(16)
Bouchercon 2012
(5)
Bouchercon 2013
(6)
Bouchercon 2014
(14)
Bouchercon 2015
(13)
Charlie Chan
(5)
Columbo
(29)
Copycat Covers
(19)
CrimeFest 2013
(6)
CrimeFest 2014
(5)
CrimeFest 2015
(5)
Dashiell Hammett
(25)
David Morrell
(8)
Dennis Lehane
(9)
Derek Raymond
(6)
Don Winslow
(11)
Donald E. Westlake
(10)
Early Reads
(18)
Ed Gorman
(10)
Edgar Allan Poe
(16)
Ellery Queen
(13)
Elmore Leonard
(21)
Eric Ambler
(9)
Erle Stanley Gardner
(11)
Foyle’s War
(16)
George Pelecanos
(4)
George V. Higgins
(3)
H.R.F. Keating
(8)
Hard Case Crime
(39)
Harry O
(4)
Hawaii Five-O
(8)
Henning Mankell
(10)
Historical Crime
(16)
Honey West
(4)
Humphrey Bogart
(4)
Ian Fleming
(50)
Ian Rankin
(8)
Interviews
(126)
Ironside
(10)
It Takes a Thief
(4)
J. Robert Janes
(6)
Jack the Ripper
(5)
James Bond
(17)
James Ellroy
(16)
James Garner
(12)
James Lee Burke
(8)
James Patterson
(10)
Jeffery Deaver
(4)
Jim Thompson
(6)
Joe Gores
(9)
John Connolly
(6)
John D. MacDonald
(7)
John Harvey
(7)
John le Carré
(4)
John Shannon
(7)
Ken Bruen
(9)
Killed in the Ratings
(16)
Kirkus
(132)
Kolchak: The Night Stalker
(7)
Laura Lippman
(7)
Law and Order
(16)
Lawrence Block
(4)
Lee Child
(20)
Lee Goldberg
(7)
Left Coast Crime 2013
(4)
Left Coast Crime 2014
(4)
Left Coast Crime 2015
(3)
Linwood Barclay
(10)
Loren D. Estleman
(4)
Madigan
(7)
Magnum P.I.
(5)
Mannix
(7)
Mark Billingham
(7)
Mark Coggins
(7)
Matt Helm
(6)
Max Allan Collins
(28)
McCloud
(5)
McMillan and Wife
(10)
Megan Abbott
(12)
Michael Connelly
(17)
Mickey Spillane
(25)
NBC Mystery Movie
(36)
Nero Wolfe
(5)
Obits 2014
(23)
Obits 2015
(28)
Perry Mason
(19)
Peter Gunn
(7)
Peter James
(7)
Peter Robinson
(6)
Philip Kerr
(7)
Pierce’s Picks
(103)
R.J. Ellory
(11)
Rap Sheet Milestones
(20)
Raymond Chandler
(50)
Robert B. Parker
(20)
Robert Crais
(6)
Robert J. Randisi
(10)
Robert McGinnis
(13)
Robert Wilson
(4)
Roger N. Morris
(13)
Ross Macdonald
(28)
Roy Huggins
(10)
Sara Paretsky
(7)
Shaft
(14)
Sherlock Holmes
(33)
Stephen King
(17)
Stieg Larsson
(40)
Story Behind the Story
(61)
Stuart Neville
(6)
The Avengers
(12)
The Maltese Falcon
(5)
The Man from U.N.C.L.E.
(16)
The Name of the Game
(6)
The New Black Mask
(10)
The Rockford Files
(24)
The Streets of San Francisco
(7)
Thomas B. Dewey
(4)
Thomas Harris
(12)
Tom Nolan
(6)
Tony Black
(14)
Tony Hillerman
(4)
TV Detectives
(32)
Twin Peaks
(5)
Walter Mosley
(5)
William Campbell Gault
(5)
Buy Books Online
Amazon.com Widgets
Stats Counter
QUOTABLE CRIME
“Crime is terribly revealing. Try and vary your methods as you will, your tastes, your habits, your attitude of mind and your soul is revealed by your actions.”
-- British mystery novelist
Agatha Christie
This site is dedicated to the memory of my beloved
Roadster .