Expendable Youth | Bass frequencies collated and regurgitated
Expendable Youth
Bass frequencies collated and regurgitated
Skip navigation
About (me)
You Wouldn’t Bring Sand To The Beach
July 21, 2009 – 5:10 pm
Posted in
Uncategorized
Tagged
dan hancox ,
dubstep ,
neophile ,
one foot ahead of the other ,
ramp ,
wonky ,
zomby
Comments (2)
Not pissing in the ocean. But how much does that matter?
Are you a
neophile ? Do you hunger for novelty?
Are you a magpie, snatching each shiny object within your gaze and devouring any worth it might offer before looking up to continue your search, hunger barely dented? Does the idea of a static culture, free from the everyday bombardment of data on the information superhighway cause you to break out in a cold sweat?
Do you like
Zomby ?
I feel an affinity with his influences – 80s video games and 90s UK rave – which coaxed me away from resisting the largely lumpen, monochrome sound named dubstep and reminding me of the need to diversify. But to what end?
Zomby’s appeal exists also as part of THE NEW. Specifically the much derided (by him, amongst others) term ‘Wonky’, on the subject of which posts can be written as intricate and expansive as
this increasingly notorious article . Although many genre terms refer to textural elements or structural rules, Wonky appears to exist purely as part of a dichotomy with an opposite – the wonkification of music is to change it, make it different and it is those factors which, when (and only when) viewed in contrast with the un-Wonky, necessitate the term.
The cult of the new deems Wonky to be good, as it is different. Unfixed time signatures, rhythms almost arrhythmical in nature, gloopy, undefined sonics… all unusual in dance music therefore worthy of intense scrutiny. This championing of all things Wonk has given my little neophile brain a bit of a bruising, the increasingly academic and opaque nature of the internet chatter surrounding such artists as Zomby has begun to repel me, leading me to forget what I saw in such music in the first place.
When I started college, I chose English Literature. We began by reading a book, the name of which I can’t recall and do not wish to as its content here is irrelevant. The next term was spent picking apart and analysing the text, to the point where it could no longer be enjoyed as a single piece of art and I could only appreciate it as a huge jigsaw of factors, elements and influences. I dropped the subject immediately.
I never wanted that to happen again, but I fear this unrelenting wall of comment, opinion and analysis which constitutes the interweb many be once again undermining the direct, sensual and physical appeal of music which feeds my mind and body. I once again refer to the excellent
Dan Hancox
and direct you to his Buffoon Empiricist Manifesto: (I implore you to read about it
here )
Buffoon Empiricism is a response to the terrible perseverance and proliferation of information and music online. Everyone can access everything, all of the time. Every message board post has a download inside. Every riposte has another riposte. Club music has become more of a spectacle than ever in the last five years; regarded, consumed and critiqued from a metaphorical and physical distance.
Yes, dancing is far preferable to RSI. Zomby’s
One Foot Ahead Of The Other
EP is out 7th September on
Ramp , featuring the track below. It’s awesome and right now, it doesn’t matter why.
Pangaea
July 15, 2009 – 1:40 pm
Posted in
Critical Beats ,
Dreams ,
Drone*Noise*Ambient
Tagged
hessle ,
hotflush ,
pangaea ,
ramadanman
Comments (1)
When injected with melancholy, deftly placed space and a smidgen of pathos, dance music (at the lack of a better term) describes places dripping with a syrupy sepia; like hazy memories, ancient summers shot through super8 with the comforting ambiguity only such textural, instrumental music can lend.
Most cite
Burial
as responsible for propagating such elements amongst the delicate skipping rhythms and inky black bass of 2-step/dubstep/whatever but for me it all slotted into place with
Ramadanman ‘s ‘Blimey’ – the faint swelling pad and distant chattering voices rising amongst the woodblocks, creating similar colours to golden(i.e.
Pause )-era
Fourtet .
Whilst Ramadanman has (for me) failed to follow it up with anything to match it in terms of scope,
Pangaea
has quietly risen to the fore with tracks such as this, on
Scuba ‘s
Hotflush . Just listen to that sound that starts to blend in at 1:50 – as mournful as a sighing processor…
Fast-forward to now for the hyper limited ‘Memories’ which takes the idea behind Skream’s diva-step anthem remix aka The Biggest Tune In The World ( You know which one I mean ), completely ignores it, buries it under 3 feet of clay and crafts something infinitely more nuanced and ultimately satisfying.
Grab it now , if there’s still time.
Finally, grab his March mix which features above track at the very end. There’s still enough dubs there for you ‘spotters and top marks for the SL2/Acen/2 Bad Mice inclusions. Old skool hardcore FTW.
DOWNLOAD:
Pangaea – Reprise Agency Mix
Tracklist:
01. SL2 – DJs take control (XL)
02. Martin Kemp – Bowser (unreleased)
03. 2 Bad Mice – Hold It Down (Moving Shadow)
04. Ramadanman – ??? (unreleased)
05. Micky Pearce – Innami (unreleased)
06. Luke Envoy – Uptown (unreleased)
07. Badawi – Lost Highway (unreleased)
08. Acen – Trip II The Moon (part II) (Production House)
09. Guido – Tango (unreleased)
10. Tempa t – Next Hype (Brackles remix) (unreleased)
11. Untold – Anaconda (forthcoming Hessle Audio)
12. Peverelist – The Blues (unreleased)
13. Joe – Rut (Hessle Audio)
14. Untold – I Can’t Stop This Feeling (Pangaea remix) (unreleased)
15. Pangaea – Memories (white)
Night Sluggin’
July 14, 2009 – 3:48 pm
Posted in
BASS ,
Dancefloor ,
HYPE HYPE
Tagged
bok bok ,
cooly g ,
l-vis 1990 ,
night slugs
Leave a Comment
He’s a good bloke that
L-Vis 1990 . Aside from
re-energising half-step wobblers with some much needed NRG , I got talking to him outside one of London’s reasonably priced (and fully vegan) Samuel Smith pubs and he stuck me on the door for that night’s THEM vs HYP!HYP!HYP! event at Corsica Studios. I had to leave early for ‘personal’ (ahem) reasons but all such rave shame shall be washed away the attendance of us all at him and
Alex Bok Bok ‘s gutter dance shindig
NIGHT SLUGS , where the filthiest in skewed house meets the infinite colours of worldwide electronic party bass.
Wednesday 22nd of July sees
Christian Martin
and London’s own minimal-funkstress
Cooly G
backed up by L-Vis and Bok Bok. Grab this mix for some appetite-whetting.
Purple funk ,
Electrik Red
and laser bass:
BOK BOK – LUCKY ME MIX
http://s3.amazonaws.com/luckymedia/32bokbok.mp3
01 – REFUGE – U Best Believe
02 – DONAEO – Love To Happen
03 – MOSCA – Square One
04 – DRE SKULL – I Want You (BOK BOK remix dub)
05 – ALISON HINDS ft MACHEL MONTANO
06 – DJ CLEO – East Rand Funk
07 – R1 RYDERS – Rubberband
08 – DORIAN CONCEPT – Trilingual Dance Sexperience
09 – SHORTSTUFF & MICKEY PEARCE – Tripped Up
10 – ZOMBY – With Lasers
11 – ELECTRIK RED – Drink In My Cup
12 – JOKER & GINZ – Purple City
13 – TERROR DANJAH – Sidechain
14 – BOK BOK – Crew dub
15 – DJ ASSAULT – Vandalism
16 – MR DE – Time Space Scrilla
17 – BASUTBUDET – Take Them Out To Eat (BOK BOK’s sundown edit)
Clark – Totems Flare
July 9, 2009 – 5:41 pm
Posted in
Critical Beats
Tagged
Body Riddle ,
Clark ,
Electronica ,
Growls Garden ,
Totems Flare ,
Warp
Leave a Comment
No talk of (Chris)
Clark
can avoid mention of 2006’s
Body Riddle
– his third long player and a modern electronica ‘perfect storm’, managing to sate the appetites of both the digital hi-fi kidz and the notoriously picky bearded purists with its delicate sample constructs and melancholy android melodies. Heavily indebted to the scene royalty of labelmates
Autechre, Aphex, Plaid and the like , as good as it was its virtues still relied heavily on a familiar basis. A high-grade homage, Leone’s
A Fist Full Of Dollars
to Kurosawa’s
Yojimbo .
It is also I might add, very good.
His work since (2008’s
Turning Dragon
and this year’s
Growls Garden
EP) suggests an artist enamored with the ensuing success and live schedule that followed. Thick riffs and dancefloor elation worked themselves in amongst the gourmet distortion and more conventional breakdown/drop structures begun to replace the choppy edits, to the point where undeniable album highlight ‘Growls Garden’ (which is brooding synth-pop more than tasteful IDM) gets played by posh-trance doyen and
Border Community
label boss
James Holden .
Better quality…
The above track is a triumph, its thumping midsection echoes the glorious crunch of gallic Ed Bangers
Justice
and requires mandatory air-punching. It also sees Clark follow fellow electronic virtuosos
Cursor Miner
and
Tim Exile
behind the microphone for the first time to complete a dark-wave anthem with more grandeur and pathos than the former and a hella more direct, physical appeal than the sometimes obtuse lab-coat boffinery of the latter.
The rest fades into a pleasant, sometimes impressive yet faintly directionless haze of classic acid warbling and fuzzed-out textures that feel included more out of compulsion than joy. Nothing else quite possesses the brio of the above track or exhibits the excitement he obviously felt crafting it. I urge Clark to continue extricating himself from the massive influence the 90s still has on electronica and plow full-steam ahead with his new identity as some sort of grand, gothic slayer of twee inanity.
For the moment get
Body Riddle
and
Growls Garden
EP, then wait.
The Month In Purple
July 4, 2009 – 8:06 pm
Posted in
BASS ,
Dancefloor ,
Independent Thinking ,
Purple
Tagged
basement jaxx ,
bristol ,
dan hancox ,
gemmy ,
guido ,
joker ,
Purple ,
sonar ,
zero 7
Comments (1)
L-R Gemmy, Joker and Guido. Thanks to Dan Hancox for photo
Dan Hancox writes about music well. He combines the intelligence to unravel sounds and themes into clear theories with the warmth and honest enthusiasm of someone who is obviously a music fan. His
blog
is well worth following, although I found his recent
fried chicken/pirate radio analogy
a little hard to swallow (oof!).
His
piece for the guardian on Bristol’s ‘purple’ trinity of Joker, Gemmy and Guido
comprehensively sums up the appeal of their rich, dayglo sound; the influence of classic video game themes and g-funk, the importance of using melody to reclaim dance music from the clutches of male dominated xtreme bass-fetishism and the issue of synaesthesia – unavoidable thanks to the trio’s colour orientated reference points. There’s very little I can, or would want to add. So I wont. Just read it.
Of the three,
Guido
is the one I know the least about. This 29min mini-mix however provides a tasty bite size introduction to his take on purple – the most melodic of the three, not shying away from synth-sax and the easily misused autotune to bring the patterns to life. Grab it
here , courtesy of
Numbers
and their ace
podcasts .
Guido – Tantalized
Guido, Aarya & Ruthless – Beautiful Complication
Guido – Chakra
Guido – You Do It Right
Guido – Orchestral Lab
Gemmy – Johnny 5
Guido – Mad Sax
Joker – Do It!
Guido – Tango
Joker – Digidesign
ALSO
A few Joker remixes (more often than not with Ginz who worked with him on the awesome
Purple City ) of more mainstream artists have been cropping up on the internetz with all – like this re-rub of carnival house perennials
Basement Jaxx
– severely pwning the originals. That combination of tropical fruity keyboard twirls and pixxellated bass give it the delectable glow the original only promised…
…come back! Yes, it is Zero 7. No, I haven’t heard the original. The bassline here burns like a digital heatwave before the increasingly recognisable purple synth riff rides over the top like… *a few adjectives later* …, so I don’t think we need to hear the original. This really is er… ‘massive’. Yes, that’ll do.
AND ALSO
Grab his mix from the Barcelona SONAR 2009 festival
here , thanks to
FADER . No tracklist yet, but there’s some lolworthy video of a man whose star is most definitely rising. Watch him fly.
lolcano eruption!
Zomby – Mercury’s Rainbow
June 23, 2009 – 7:02 pm
Posted in
Dreams
Comments (1)
Truly transcendental electronica (oh yes) from
Zomby
after a couple of disappointingly lacklustre remixes ( Franz Ferdinand ,
Animal Collective ) to remind us of the prickly, luminous, highlighter-marker, cut-and-print quality of his best work, neatly sidestepping the increasingly hoary approach to percussion in dubstep/wonky/whatever it’s called this week by telling it to fuck off completely. Don’t build a groove, just place it in front of you and let it gently gather inertia until it spins with it’s own infinite momentum, an almost imperceptible pitch and yaw bending the image over time into recognisable yet subtley altered variations. With synths. Y’know, like these ones:
The images are of course from
2001 ‘s climactic, abstract epiphany, capturing wonderfully that hypnotic and nebulous sense of wonder that such absorbing music illicits. Me, I can’t help thinking of the Spinemelter 2000 – ‘I’l ta-a-a-ake i-i-i-it’
Paul White – The Strange Dreams Of…
June 18, 2009 – 1:59 pm
Posted in
Critical Beats
Comments (2)
‘Beat Generation’ (young Dilla/Madlib obsessives grouped together by er… someone) doyen
Paul White ‘s cut&paste hip-hop sampledelica arguably owes a lot to the 90s
Mo’ Wax
affiliates of yore but it’s his approach to the shared studio armoury that defines his voice. A more frenetic aesthetic keeps most tracks around the 2min mark and the beats simmering rather than drifting into a self-indulgent haze, ostensibly linked to our supposed modern split-second attention span but more likely thanks to the man’s day job as purveyor of library music for (among others) our dear old BBC.
Unsurprisingly It’s as celluloid an experience as any instrumental hip-hop record with one track (‘Flying Over Tokyo’) fashioned almost entirely from elements lifted from Katsuhiro Otomo’s superlative anime epic
Akira
and a smattering of dialogue from generally adored cult classics. ‘So what’s new?’ you snap distractedly but there’s an underlying, woody aroma of wholemeal English prog which lends a pastoral, psychedelic decoration not unlike
Boards Of Canada
brought up on the early
Vertigo
and
Def Jam
back catalogue (on second thoughts, they probably were). Instances such as
King Crimson’s ’21st Century Schizoid Man’
bursting in via ‘The Uprising Of The Insane’ combine curiously well with the bumpy hip-hop rhythms, giving this LP an earthy organic base on which to plant the boombox jams.
Listen to the album in full
here
(and find out how you can commission Paul to personally make you some beats!)
…and grab this mix, courtesy of the unrelentingly engaging
FADER . In fact, head over there now for an interview with Paul and label mate/cohort
Bullion .
Download: Paul White’s FADER Mix
Intro
King Stitt – Herbsman – Trojen
Todd Rundgren – International Feel – Bearsville
BBC Radiophonic Orchestra – Doctor Who – BBC Records
Peter Baumann – This Day – Virgin
Joe Zawinul – In A Silent Way – Atlantic
Todd Rundgren – Never Never Land – Bearsville
Paul White – Highlife – Unreleased
Paul White – Universal Thoughts – Unreleased
Paul White – Alien Attack – Unreleased
Paul White – Get Em Up – Unreleased
Jo Jo Bennett – Leaving Rome -Trojen
Batucada Fantastica – Atabaques E Surdos – Musidisc
George Duke – OMI (Fresh Water) – Epic
Gong – And You Tried So Hard – Virgin
Utopia – Singring And The Glass Guitar – Bearsville
Paul White – Time Wars (Extended Version) – One Handed-Music
NADSROIC – One To Watch
June 15, 2009 – 9:41 pm
Posted in
Critical Beats ,
Independent Thinking ,
Pop ,
R&B
Leave a Comment
Following the threads of genius through commercial hip-hop to the logical destination of tomorrow, there comes a collaboration of fwd-thinking youths (via label/collective creative powerhouse
LuckyMe ) with the potential to forge a white-hot vision of next-level funk worthy of a lot of the hyperbole already associated with the sound.
Ciorsdan Brown originates from Glasgow’s increasingly fertile beat farms and combines with the similarly vital creative mind of
Hudson Mohawke
to form
NADSROIC , a project producing the most sophisticated and vivid future R&B since the glory days of Timbaland/Pharrell et al. Raised on Celtic fiddle and song she comes off like a languid Missy E, cloaking the lyrical barbs and potent flows with a delivery that matches the mellifluous to the delectably louche. Hudson’s shattered rhythms and starry-eyed sample clusters have never before sounded so completely at home.
Incoming ‘Room Mist’ EP on the 29th. Check
LuckyMe
for updates.
HudMo / Nadsroic mini mix culled from Mary Anne Hobbs Experimental: X Chromosome Special, 22nd of April 2009:
Nadsroic & Husdon Mohawke mix
Hudson Mo Loops – ‘M5000 Loop’
Damfunk – ‘Rhythm Trax’
The Blessings – ‘Faberge’
Nadsroic – ‘Room Mist’ (prod HudsonMo)
Nadsroic – ‘Saw You There’ (prod HudsonMo)
Nadsroic – ‘Peekaboo’ (prod HudsonMo)
Nadsroic – ‘Step Back’ (prod HudsonMo)
Nadsroic – ‘Allhot’ (prod HudsonMo)
Download
(Thanks to A
Shaving Of The Horn That Speared You )
Rodney Jerkins Is A Genius
June 11, 2009 – 9:52 pm
Posted in
Critical Beats
Leave a Comment
…and if this slice of 2002 bumping future R&B didn’t predate/totally inspire the current wave of wonky hip-hop beatheads (which it did) then I ain’t writing this through a fug of instant coffee caffeine goodness (which I am). That shuddering rhythm and snapping, bubbling synth line is pure pop simplicity, like a haiku you can dance to. Ya dig?
Aside from his production work with Ciara, Beyoncé, Whitney Houston, Michael Jackson and er… the Spice Girls (YA RLY) this is
Rodney ‘Darkchild’ Jerkins ‘ optimum joint
– dirty and clean in all the right places. It’s also Brandy’s best, not so much o’ dat mawkish ballad shiz. If
Alexander Nut
hasn’t been dropping this all the time forever then I suggest he gets on it forthwith, as should you.
more about “ Rodney Jerkins Is A Genius “, posted with
vodpod
Nosaj Thing / Vomiting The 90s
June 9, 2009 – 3:52 pm
Posted in
Critical Beats
Leave a Comment
Yet another fresh-faced young beatsmith, raised in the (supposedly) blinding sunhaze of L-fuckin’-A and influenced by the DIY tropical punk emanating from crucially kool venue ‘The Smell’ and its regulars (No Age, Mika Miko etc). It’s glitch-hop I guess, the loose, tumbling hip-hop rhythms and the paintbox crayon synths of FlyLo and Dorian Concept et al, and of NOW.
Interest was piqued (mine) by the inclusion of
‘FWD’ on tasty Dutch label Rush Hour’s
Beat Dimensions
series , the mouth-watering chunkiness of the central synth riff lending it a juicy weight that the surrounding tracks fell short of. His debut LP
Drift
is out now although nothing included, for me, quite lived up to the above cut. More and more of this ouevre strikes me as a regurgitation of the 90s golden era of electronica, directed through the more recent reference points of extreme sound squeezing and willfully fucked rhythms.
Drift
has a mix of the Doctor Who melodic eeriness of
Not For Threes -era Plaid and the considered structure and careful mapping of
I Care Because You Do -era Aphex Twin – both features are very much to his credit but maybe I’m showing my age when they cloud my judgement.
Don’t get me wrong, there’s a lot here to like – he’s capable of much more melodic depth and variety than most of his peers and boasts a rare and delicate approach to sound sculpting – but I’m just so eager for him to be less in thrall to his heroes, that’s when you see an artist truly bloom.
Anyway, that’s just like, my opinion.
For a taste check out/buy the album
here
or grab this mix from the Mary Ann Hobbs show (which also includes Ras G for some similarly-styled fun and Appleblim’s BLOC set).
Mary Anne Hobbs – with Nosaj Thing, Mono/Poly, Hyetal, Ras G, Ben Klock, Appleblim [Hotfile download]
[Rapidshare]
Tracklist:
Nosaj Thing Mix
Chopin – ‘Prelude in E Minor’
Nosaj Thing – ‘Untitled’
Nosaj Thing – ‘Nightcrawler’
Nosaj Thing – ‘Wandering Star’ [Nosaj Thing Remix]
Nosaj Thing – ‘Coat of Arms’
Nosaj Thing – ‘1685/Bach’
Nosaj Thing – ‘Intro/Camel’ [Nosaj Thing Remix]
Nosaj Thing – ‘Aquarium’
Nosaj Thing – ‘Caves’
Nosaj Thing – ‘Harrison Ford’
Mono/Poly Mix
Mono/Poly – ‘The Beatles’
Mike Slott – ‘My Lightbridge’
Sir OJ – ‘Lightsabermass’
Mono/Poly – ‘Red & Yellow Toys’
Mono/Poly – ‘Ninja Turtle Feet’
Busy – ‘Avogadro’
T-Bag ft. Lil Wayne – ‘Cant Believe It’ [Mono/Poly Mix]
Mono/Poly – ‘Aquaschism + The Gemini Mermaid’
Hyetal Mix
Hyetal – ‘Pixel Rainbow Sequence’ [Peverelist remix] (forthcoming on Reduction Records)
Hyetal – ‘Gold Or Soul’ (forthcoming on Soul Motive)
Hyetal – ‘We Should Light A Fire’ (Dubplate)
Shortstuff – ‘Progression’ (forthcoming on Formant Recordings)
Jack Sparrow & Biggins – ‘Fullest’ (Dubplate)
? – ‘Secrets’ (Dubplate)
Ras G Mix
Ras G – ‘El-Saturn-Day/P.O.P/Brainfeeder Bent Intro’
Ras G – ‘Deep Space Nine’ (Dubplate)
Ras G – ‘HollyHood/Where Dem Trees @?’(Dubplate)
Samiyam – ‘Fishsticks’ (Dubplate)
Ras G – ‘Ancestrial Echoes’(Dubplate)
Ras G – ‘Elevators’ (Dubplate)
Flying Lotus – ‘Aboriginal’ (Dubplate)
Ras G – ‘In Coming!!!!’(Brainfeeder)
Hudson Mohawke – ‘Yonard’(Warp)
Ras G – ‘Speaker Smash [ruff]’ (Dubplate)
Ben Klock Mix
Ben Klock – ‘Grip’ (Ostgut Ton)
Levon Vincent – ‘Six Figures’ (Novel Sound)
Steffan Linzatti – ‘See’ (Stockholm LTD)
Steve Stoll – ‘Run in it – B1’ (Proper)
Norman Nodge – ‘Rush’ (MDR)
Telefon Tel Aviv – ‘Immolate Yourself’ [Ben Klock Remix] (BPitchcontrol)
Roman Lindau – ‘Simplicity’ (Fachwerk)
Appleblim Recorded At Bloc Weekend
Track listing to follow shortly…
« Older posts
November 2015
M
T
W
T
F
S
S
« Jul
1
2 3 4 5 6 7 8
9 10 11 12 13 14 15
16 17 18 19 20 21 22
23 24 25 26 27 28 29
30
Archives
July 2009
June 2009
May 2009
April 2009
March 2009
February 2009
January 2009
December 2008
November 2008
Recent Posts
You Wouldn’t Bring Sand To The Beach
Pangaea
Night Sluggin’
Clark – Totems Flare
The Month In Purple
Pages
About (me)
Search
Blogroll
GODS OF WAR
WordPress.com
WordPress.org
RSS Feeds
All posts
All comments
Meta
Register
Log in
Create a free website or blog at WordPress.com .
The ChaosTheory Theme .
Follow
Follow “Expendable Youth”
Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.
Build a website with WordPress.com
Add your thoughts here... (optional)
Post to
Cancel