Barangay Saint Christine: October 2010
Pages
Home
Rapture by Rory Moore
Integrity by Erlhynda Rosel
Tuesday, October 26, 2010
Rapture and Heaven by Mark Borders
Bold print is added by author Mark Borders, in response to an article on NTEB (Now The End Begins), website at
http://www.nowtheendbegins.com/
In
1 Thessalonians 4, we read where Paul says that "we which are alive
[and] remain shall be caught up together with them in the clouds, to
meet the Lord in the air". The key phrase here is when Paul say "caught
up together". The New Testament was largely written in Greek, and the
Greek work that Paul uses in that phrase is the word "harpazo", which
means literally "to snatch out", or "to seize". A very apt word to
describe how the Lord Jesus will soon pull the believers out of here.
After Greek, the Bible was translated into Latin, and that same phrase
in Latin uses the word "raptus", or "rapturo", from which we get our
English word "rapture". This word is a verb, and denotes action, not
simply description.
There is no doubt that believers will be “caught up together”, at some time.
Jesus promises to return for His people, and it's not a secret
You
will note that Paul says that Jesus, when He returns to take us out,
does not come all the way down to the earth, but rather comes down only
as far as the clouds. The world below will not see Jesus at this time,
only those believers who are "caught up" in the clouds to be with Him.
There will be nothing "secret" about this event as a). it will be
apparent to all those not raptured what is happening, and b). The impact
and devastation that will be felt by those left behind will be obvious
and very immediate. Nothing secret about it, but, those left behind on
earth will not see Jesus take us, only the aftermath of that event. Does
Jesus say anywhere in the Bible that He will return again for His
People?
In this paragraph, lies one of my issues
against Pre-Tribulation Rapture, “Jesus said that only God knows the
time of His Second Coming”, if believers are “Caught Up”, assuming a
Pre-Tribulation Rapture, then everyone left would know the time of the
second coming. It’s not like Jesus; once He has His church removed; is
going to be sitting around long (7 Years?) waiting for all the
destruction to happen, while His Brothers and Sisters; stand idly by and
watch while their friends and loved ones who would not believe are
tortured and killed. Instead I believe that the believers would feel as I
do; Please Lord, leave me here to the very last second, so I may
continue the work of bringing people to you, I agree with you Jesus that
none should be left behind.
"Let not your
heart be troubled: ye believe in God, believe also in me. In my Father's
house are many mansions: if [it were] not [so], I would have told you. I
go to prepare a place for you. And if I go and prepare a place for you,
I will come again, and receive you unto myself; that where I am,
[there] ye may be also." John 14: 1-3
In this
paragraph, “and receive you unto myself; that where I am, [there] ye may
be also.”, this says nothing about the destination once he receives us,
in fact just the opposite. Wherever Jesus will be, there is where we
will be. During this time Jesus will not be in heaven, He is on His way
to earth to reclaim it for His Father.
Jesus
promises us in His Word that there will come a Day when He will
personally return and gather the believers and take them to be with Him
in Heaven. So at this point in our study we cross off the list those
people who say there will be "no rapture", as Jesus Himself as promised
us that He will come from us and take us out. To deny this is to deny
the clear, revealed teaching of the Bible. The Bible commands us to wait
for His return - "For they themselves shew of us what manner of
entering in we had unto you, and how ye turned to God from idols to
serve the living and true God; And to wait for his Son from heaven, whom
he raised from the dead, [even] Jesus, which delivered us from the
wrath to come." 1 Thessalonians 1:9,10
This
paragraph, your conclusion that; “and take them to be with Him in
Heaven.” is a wish or desire by believers to be spared from seeing all
the things happening around them, believers have lured themselves into
believing that God will spare them from this. Did God spare Abraham
completely from the destruction of Sodom and Gomorrah? Why would God
spare believers, when their wisdom and teaching could bring more
believers into the Kingdom of God? Yes Jesus will deliver us from the
wrath of the final destructive battle of Armageddon, not the wrath of
the Tribulation Period.
Paul wrote about the Rapture so we would not be ignorant of it
Further
along in 1 Thessalonians, Paul addresses a topic that was in much
debate even in his day regarding the Rapture. Many people had thought
that the Rapture has already happened, and maybe they missed it. They
didn't understand the process by which everything would unfold. What
would happen to those who had already died before the Rapture? So Paul
sets out in chapter 4 of 1 Thessalonians to answer all these questions.
Let's break it down bit by bit:“But I would not have you to be ignorant,
brethren, concerning them which are asleep, that ye sorrow not, even as
others which have no hope. For if we believe that Jesus died and rose
again, even so them also which sleep in Jesus will God bring with him."
1Thessalonians 4: 13,14
This is only talking
about believers who die before the Rapture of believers. Those who are
dead (asleep) will be caught up with the believers who are not dead
(asleep). In the twinkling of an eye we will be changed, our bodies will
become Glorified Bodies. Any defect will be changed to perfection, eyes
will be perfect, ears, teeth, bones, all will be perfect, healthy.
Praise God, I won't have to wear glasses anymore. Or wake up with my
neck throbbing from a accident when I was young. Perfect Glorified
Bodies!! Whoo Hoo!!
God through Paul here is
telling us that, as believers, we are not left to wonder or guess about
the final outcome of those who had already died. God promises that Jesus
will bring those people up to Heaven as well. That death is not a cause
for sorrow, because we know who holds our future, and that future is
certain and secure. Next, he addresses those who will still be alive on
earth when Jesus returns.
Now for more truth: You
say "Jesus will bring those people UP to Heaven as well." Here is
another lie satan wants you to believe, more confusion to get past.
Heaven is not UP!! Why do you think we meet him in the air? Where is it
that Jesus is going? He's going to earth to bring wrath to the wicked,
fight the battle of Armageddon, and rule the earth for 1000 years. Just
who do you think he is going to rule over?
satan and his followers??
Absolutely not! We the Believers are going to meet Him in the air, for a
quick re-uniting with Jesus, our friends and family who went on before,
then we all are going to come back to the earth with Jesus. Praise God!
He sets up His Kingdom, right here on the new Earth. After Jesus, and
us Believers cleanse the Earth. The Holy City will come down out of the
Heavens, notice that is plural, and it will establish itself on Earth.
This is our Heaven for at least 1000 years. Remember folks, at this
point we live for an eternity, right here on Earth, with Jesus as our
King, and Ruler. Things on this New Earth continue just like before, but
there is perfect peace among all, perfect transactions, perfect
everything. No more tears, no more pain, only Happiness and Peace among
all us Believers. Thank God, no more corruption, no more lies, no more
crime, no more evil. satan and his followers are bound for a time (1000
years), while we believers carry on with the business of the world.
Growing food, to add to the manna, catching fish, working, building,
everything like the last years before the Tribulation, only much, much
better. Don't you want to be there for that???
Now,
here comes the Chastisement. You who believed in the
Pre-/Mid-Tribulation Rapture, believed the lie of satan, he is a lier,
and the truth is not in him. If you also believed Heaven was somewhere
UP there, then you are believing in the fairy tell s you tell your
children, or the TV Movie the "Wizard of Oz". Folks let me tell you,
THAT MOVIE WAS FICTION. Go find the book in a book store and see what
section it's in; "Fiction". Grow UP! You should be more adult than that.
Instead of telling fictional fairy tells, you should have been reading
them the Truth in Bible. "Oh, but it's so scary!!" Well Ohhh noooo. Wow,
welcome to the real world. Life and end times is scary, should be scary
so people understand what is at stake. Narrow is the path that leads to
our Father, and few reach the destination. Wide is the path that leads
to destruction, and many who enter there! That was a warning folks. God
said this, not this author, God Said It! Now, you want to argue with God
about it, then wait till you stand before the Throne of God and you are
Judged by all the things you did while on earth. Will you come up
lacking? wanting? will you look like evil? are you guilty of something?
Why, yes you are guilty of not accepting His Only Begotten Son. The One
True Savior of this World. The Human Female Flesh, mated with the
Heavenly Father, produced Jesus, the Living Breathing Flesh of Man, who
did not ever lie Honesty, always showed Ultimate Compassion, Generously
game Himself to pay for our sins which had not even been committed yet.
Was beaten, but showed Bravery beyond any of us. Do you think for one
minute that if; He wanted to destroy all humans on the earth and start
over, do you think He couldn't do it?? Come on, look at all the miracles
he performed, if He could raise the dead bodies of others after days,
He could have hung on that cross until today and not die. He willing
gave up His life for me and you, and your neighbors, family, friends,
etc.
The Devil has caused you to believe
all these lies about the Bible, he wants you for his follower at that
final battle, and would do anything to keep you. God will not interfere
like satan, God said he would not destroy the earth again until the
Deliver had come. Get right folks, start studying your Bible. Get your
life right with God. Join me in Heaven, right here on Good Ole Planet
Earth, but New, Refreshed, Healed, just like us.
Now
in this article, I was responding to another group called Now The End
Begin (NTEB) in facebook. Bold Italics is my writing the other is
theirs, not sure who's but you can look for yourself sometime. Also I
did not write the books and verses I paraphrased, If you want to make
sure what I'm telling you is the truth, look it up yourself. To NTEB:
There's been enough people tell you this same thing I'm saying. Maybe
you better wake up and find Jesus. Good Lord Folks, all of you, all over
the world. If I can get it, just an average person, who can read. Why
has so many Bible Teachers, Ministers, Priests, Bishops, Clergy,
whatever name you go by these days. Are you going to stand before God
and argue with Him too? Shame such shame on what the Roman Catholic
Church has failed to do, and shame on you for what you are going to do.
The Roman Catholic Church will stand with the anti-Christ and proclaim
him savior of the world. Not MY Savior he's not. Get the behind me
satan, I bind you in the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy
Spirit. Get yourselves right people or you will spend an eternity in
hell. Fire and Brimstone all around you, horrible agony, never sleeping,
never eating, never feeling even one moment of relief. An eternity of
that. Are you really sure that's what you want? Really?
By: Mark Borders,
Southern Baptist Nobody;
but a Child of the Risen Lord!!
This
article is not and will not be copyrighted, it is offered free to any
who need it, anyone wishing to copy it, and use it in anyway; have my
permission to do so, I only insist that you change nothing, take nothing
out, add nothing in, unless you are sending it to me to point out
something you disagree with. And, I'm open to further discussions, but
this, and the article by Rory Moore, which is also free to anyone with
the same restriction, should be enough to convince any half-witted
Church-going, non-Believer of the truth.
Posted by
Mark and Merejen
at
2:14 AM
1 comment:
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share to Pinterest
Links to this post
Reactions:
Tuesday, October 12, 2010
What Time is It Now?
The End Time IS here now. Text in Red Bold is the author of this blog, all others are copied from internet. The below article tells the story. Many Religious Leaders (Except for Franklin Graham) Support Mosque By
Elizabeth Dias
Wednesday, Aug. 18, 2010
From left: Getty Images; Seth Wenig / AP; Corbis
TIME conducted interviews with eight prominent, diverse religious
voices in the U.S. on the subject of the so-called Ground Zero mosque
and community center in New York City. With the exception of Franklin
Graham, the leaders appear committed to religious freedom, though a few
worry that the funding for the mosque as well as its political and
religious agenda have not been fully disclosed. Read more:
http://www.time.com/time/nation/article/0,8599,2011614,00.html#ixzz128YqABgw
Heidi Hadsell, president of the
Hartford Seminary
Hadsell supports the building of the mosque near the site of the Sept. 11 attacks. Hartford established a groundbreaking Christian-Muslim seminary program in the 1970s and has done some of the most innovative and leading work on Christian-Muslim dialogue. Meanwhile, in nearby Bridgeport, Conn., a similar mosque controversy is developing.
• "I'm afraid that politicians have gotten hold of this and are using it to pander to extreme voices that are really Islamophobic. The real issues get lost in the battle. I think theologically , there is nothing inside of Christianity that would indicate that we are to treat people of other religions with anything but the utmost respect and friendship."
• "Christians need to speak out. My guess is they are speaking out and they are not being heard. The voices that are being heard are the more strident voices."
• "I think it's important for Christians across the country to hear what Christian leaders are saying and not just what right-wing politicians are saying. I think people ... get confused unless their own religious leadership speaks up. The noise isn't coming from religious leaders; it's coming from politicians. In the main part, religious leaders are not attacking this mosque. The main part is politicians who are attacking this mosque hoping for votes.
• "If people would just calm down, it could go forward and in a few years people would see it doing exactly what [the mosque supporters] said it would do."
• "The notion that one serves one's own faith by knocking down another faith is false. One serves one's faith by living up to the ideals of that faith. The ideals of Christianity, like the ideals of Islam and Judaism, are peaceful ideals. They are ideals of constructing peaceful and productive relationships with neighbors. The responsibility is to live up to the ideals of one's religion and not sink to the lowest fears." Read more:
http://www.time.com/time/nation/article/0,8599,2011614,00.html#ixzz128P6VmZd
there is nothing inside of Christianity that would indicate that we are to treat people of other religions with anything but the utmost respect and friendship."
I beg to differ there Miss, copied below is a compilation of articles freely available on the internet, that’s where I got them. If you don’t know how to find them yourself, you were not taught properly in the first place. I have pity on any that are not aware of the stories and truths in the Holy Bible, the WHOLE thing, not the first 5 books, or just the Old Testament, but the WHOLE HOLY BIBLE.
The writing in the Good Book is a blueprint for how we as humans should live. This has become so evident to me since moving to the Philippines. In a predominantly Roman Catholic Nation, very many of the Christian attitudes, principals, and values that I grew up with in America, are lacking here. There are many who already know this.
Recent events tell clearly what time it is. I could site many, but I’ll focus on just one.
On May 30 th
this year, a “Freedom Flotilla”, auspiciously carrying humanitarian relief challenged the Blockade of Gaza.
Read the story
to get the full insight, but let’s say that Israel handled itself with Honor, and the rest of the world is not. Obama wants an investigation into Israel’s handling of the event, when Israel’s display showed Honorable intentions by; Only using non-lethal weapons as primary weapons, after many warnings to the flotilla. After it was over Israel in what can only be frames as a Godly Act of Forgiveness, released everyone. What more do you want? What more can Israel do? Where are the ones that should be coming to Israel’s defense? Do you want another Holocaust Stain on our hands before the Lord?
I’m afraid that one thing is true right now, the End Time is here, and nothing that any of us can do will change that. All of us must dig deep within our souls and bring out compassion for other True Believers, but also for those who are not the descendants of Cain. I remember so well my good father explaining to me as I was growing up. I raised the point at the dinner table one evening, that the famine in Africa was so bad. He proceeded to lecture me about the reasons for that. Those reasons are straight out of the Holy Bible, some which are copied below. But first let’s define who Cain and Able was, so we will know Cain’s descendants. All links are active; only right click them, and open in new tab, unless you want to navigate away from this article.
The entire article is great information, however I take no credit for any of it, other people already made this available, I’ve just collected it here. The most important quick information points are near the begining.
In the
Hebrew Bible ,
Cain and Abel
(Hebrew:
קין
, הבל ,
Hevel ,
Qayin ) [1]
are two sons of
Adam and Eve . The
Qur'an
mentions the story calling them The two sons of Adam (Arabic:
إبني
آدم ) only, [2]
while the names Qabil (Arabic:
قابيل ) and Habil (Arabic:
هابيل ) are used in other sources of Islamic literature. In the Greek New Testament, Cain is referred to as
εκ του πονηρου.
[3]
In at least one translation this is rendered "from the evil one", [4]
while others have "of the evil one." [5]
Some interpreters take this to mean that Cain was literally the son of the serpent in the
Garden of Eden . A parallel idea can be found in Jewish tradition, [6]
that the serpent (Hebrew
nahash
נחש ) from the Garden of Eden was father to firstborn Cain. In all versions, Cain is a crop farmer and his younger brother Abel is a shepherd. [7]
Cain is portrayed as sinful, committing the first murder by killing his brother, [8]
after God [9]
has rejected his offerings of produce but accepted the animal sacrifices brought by Abel. [10]
The oldest known copy of the Biblical narration is from the 1st century
Dead Sea Scrolls . [11] [12]
Cain and Abel also appear in a number of other texts, [13]
and the story is the subject of various interpretations. [14]
Abel, the first murder victim, is sometimes seen as the first
martyr ; [15]
while Cain, the first murderer, is sometimes seen as an ancestor of
evil . [16]
1 Adam knew his wife Eve intimately, and she conceived and gave birth to Cain. She said, "I have had a male child with the L ORD 's help." [31]
2 Then she also gave birth to his brother Abel. Now Abel became a shepherd of a flock, but Cain cultivated the land.
3 In the course of time Cain presented some of the land's produce as an offering to the L ORD .
4 And Abel also presented [an offering] [32]
— some of the firstborn of his flock and their fat portions. [33]
The Lord had regard for Abel and his offering,
5 but He did not have regard for Cain and his offering. Cain was furious, and he was downcast. [34]
6 Then the L ORD
said to Cain, "Why are you furious? And why are you downcast? [35]
7 If you do right, won't you be accepted? But if you do not do right, sin is crouching at the door. Its desire is for you, but you must master it."
8 Cain said to his brother Abel, "Let's go out to the field." [36]
And while they were in the field, Cain attacked his brother Abel and killed him. –
Genesis 4:1-8 ( HCSB Copied from Wikipedia
Murder and motive For convenience, the story can be considered in two sections — 1. murder and motive and 2. confrontation and consequences.
Religious sources of the Cain and Abel story can be found in
Genesis
(950 to 450 BC) in the
Hebrew Bible , Sura 5 ( Al-Ma'ida ) of the
Qur'an
(early 7th century) and
Pearl of Great Price
(1851). [30]
[ edit ]
Biblical account (Judaeo-Christian)
Cain leads Abel to death , by
James Tissot .
1 Adam knew his wife Eve intimately, and she conceived and gave birth to Cain. She said, "I have had a male child with the L ORD 's help." [31]
2 Then she also gave birth to his brother Abel. Now Abel became a shepherd of a flock, but Cain cultivated the land.
3 In the course of time Cain presented some of the land's produce as an offering to the L ORD .
4 And Abel also presented [an offering] [32]
— some of the firstborn of his flock and their fat portions. [33]
The Lord had regard for Abel and his offering,
5 but He did not have regard for Cain and his offering. Cain was furious, and he was downcast. [34]
6 Then the L ORD
said to Cain, "Why are you furious? And why are you downcast? [35]
7 If
you do right, won't you be accepted? But if you do not do right, sin is
crouching at the door. Its desire is for you, but you must master it."
8 Cain said to his brother Abel, "Let's go out to the field." [36]
And while they were in the field, Cain attacked his brother Abel and killed him.
–
Genesis 4:1-8 ( HCSB) The
Septuagint
has a different verse 7:
Hast thou not sinned if thou hast brought it rightly, but not rightly
divided it? be still, to thee shall be his submission, and thou shalt
rule over him. [37] [ edit ]
Motives Though Genesis depicts Cain's motive in killing Abel as simply being
one of jealousy concerning God's favor for Abel, this is not the view of
many extra-biblical works. The
Midrash
and the
Conflict of Adam and Eve with Satan
both record that the real motive involved the desire of women.
According to Midrashic tradition, Cain and Abel each had twin sisters,
whom they were to marry. The Midrash records that Abel's promised wife
was the more beautiful. Cain would not consent to this arrangement. Adam
proposed to refer the question to God by means of a sacrifice. God
rejected Cain's sacrifice, signifying His disapproval of his marriage
with Aclima, and Cain slew his brother in a fit of jealousy. [38]
[ edit ]
Abel's death
Adam and Eve mourn the death of Abel,
In
Christianity , comparisons are sometimes made between the death of Abel and that of
Jesus , the former thus seen as being the first
martyr : in
Matthew 23:35 , Jesus speaks of Abel as
righteous ; and the
Epistle to the Hebrews
states that
The blood of sprinkling ... [speaks] better things than that of Abel
( Hebrews 12:24 ). The blood of Jesus is interpreted as bringing mercy; but that of Abel as demanding vengeance (hence the curse and mark). [39]
Abel is invoked in the
litany
for the dying in
Roman Catholic Church , and his sacrifice is mentioned in the
Canon of the Mass
with those of
Abraham
and
Melchizedek . The
Coptic Church
commemorates him with a
feast day
on December 28. [40]
[ edit ]
Burial According to the Qur'an, Cain (Kabil) buried Abel (Habil), prompted
to do so by a single raven scratching the ground, on God's command. The
Qur'an states that upon seeing the raven, Cain regretted his action
[al-Ma'idah:27-31], and that rather than being cursed by God, since He
hadn't done so before, God chose to create a law against murder:
If anyone slew a person – be it for murder or for spreading mischief
in the land – it would be as if he slew the whole people; and if anyone
saved a life, it would be as if he saved the life of the whole people . According to
Shi'a Muslim
belief, Abel is buried in
Nabi Habeel Mosque , located west of
Damascus , in
Syria .
[ edit ]
Underworld In classical times, as well as more recently, Abel was regarded as
the first innocent victim of the power of evil, and hence the first
martyr. In the
Book of Enoch
(at 22:7), the soul of Abel is described as having been appointed as
the chief of martyrs, crying for vengeance, for the destruction of the
seed of Cain. This view is later repeated in the
Testament of Abraham
(at A:13 / B:11), where Abel has been raised to the position as the judge of the souls:
An awful man sitting upon the throne to judge all creatures, and
examining the righteous and the sinners. He being the first to die as
martyr, God brought him hither [to the place of judgment in the nether
world] to give judgment, while
Enoch ,
the heavenly scribe, stands at his side writing down the sin and the
righteousness of each. For God said: I shall not judge you, but each man
shall be judged by man. Being descendants of the first man, they shall
be judged by his son until the great and glorious appearance of the
Lord, when they will be judged by the twelve tribes of Israel, and then
the last judgment by the Lord Himself shall be perfect and unchangeable. According to the
Coptic
Book of Adam and Eve
(at 2:1-15), and the
Syriac
Cave of Treasures , Abel's body, after many days of mourning, was placed in the
Cave of Treasures , before which Adam and Eve, and descendants, offered their prayers. In addition, the
Sethite
line of the
Generations of Adam
swear by Abel's blood to segregate themselves from the
unrighteous .
[ edit ]
Confrontation and consequences
[ edit ]
Bible
Cain, by
Henri Vidal ,
Jardin des Tuileries ,
Paris
9 Then the Lord said to Cain, "Where is your brother Abel?"
"I know not," he replied. "Am I my brother's keeper?"
10 Then He said, "What have you done? Your brother's blood cries out to Me from the ground!
11 So now you are cursed [with alienation] [41]
from the ground that opened its mouth to receive your brother's blood you have shed.
12 If you work the land, it will never again give you its yield. You will be a restless wanderer on the earth."
13 But Cain answered the Lord, "My punishment [42]
is too great to bear!
14 Since
You are banishing me today from the soil, and I must hide myself from
Your presence and become a restless wanderer on the earth, whoever finds
me will kill me."
15 Then the Lord replied to him, "Therefore, [43]
whosoever slayeth Cain vengeance will be taken on him sevenfold. " [44]
And the Lord set a Mark upon Cain, lest any finding him should kill him.
16 Then Cain went out from the Lord's presence and lived in the
land of Nod , east of
Eden .
–
Genesis 4:9-16 (HCSB) [ edit ]
Qur'an and Sunnah The story with the motives and the aftermath of the killing is mentioned in Surat Al-Ma'ida Verse 27 - 32 [45] :
27. Recite to them the truth of the story of the two sons of Adam.
Behold! they each presented a sacrifice (to Allah): It was accepted from
one, but not from the other. Said the latter: "Be sure I will slay
thee." "Surely," said the former, "(Allah) doth accept of the sacrifice
of those who are righteous.
28. "If thou dost stretch thy hand against me, to slay me, it is not for
me to stretch my hand against thee to slay thee: for I do fear Allah,
the cherisher of the worlds.
29. "For me, I intend to let thee draw on thyself my sin as well as
thine, for thou wilt be among the companions of the fire, and that is
the reward of those who do wrong."
30. The (selfish) soul of the other led him to the murder of his
brother: he murdered him, and became (himself) one of the lost ones.
31. Then Allah sent a raven, who scratched the ground, to show him how
to hide the shame of his brother. "Woe is me!" said he; "Was I not even
able to be as this raven, and to hide the shame of my brother?" then he
became full of regrets.
32. On that account: We ordained for the Children of Israel that if
anyone killed a person not in retaliation of murder, or (and) to spread
mischief in the land - it would be as if he slew the whole people: and
if any one saved a life, it would be as if he saved the life of the
whole people. Then although there came to them Our apostles with clear
signs, yet, even after that, many of them continued to commit excesses
in the land. There is Hadith in Al-Bukari that tells of the consequences Qabil shall take because of slaying his brother: [46]
Narrated by Sufian Athaouri, from Al-A'amash, from Abdullah ibn
Murrah, from Masrouq, from Abdullah ibn Mas'oud, that Mohammad said: "No
human being is killed unjustly, but a part of responsibility for the
crime is laid on the first son of Adam who invented the tradition of
killing (murdering) on the earth." [ edit ]
Mark of Cain Main article:
Curse and mark of Cain
Much has been written about the curse of Cain, and associated
mark . The word translated as
mark
( 'Oth ,
אות ) could mean a sign, omen, warning, or remembrance. [47]
In the Bible, the same word is used to describe the stars as signs or omens, [48]
circumcision
as a token of God's covenant with
Abraham , [49]
and the signs performed by
Moses
before
Pharaoh . [50]
The word
Ot (hard t)
in
Hebrew
also means "a letter" (of the alphabet).
Jewish mysticism ,
among other ancient lores, assigns spiritual ideas or powers to written
letters and verses. The Mark of Cain may be a letter, a verse, a
message, or a
talisman .
The Bible makes reference on several occasions to
Kenites , who, in the Hebrew, are referred to as Qayin, i.e. in a highly
cognate
manner to Cain (Qayin). Some therefore believe that the Mark of Cain
referred originally to some very identifying mark of the Kenite tribe,
such as red hair, or a ritual tattoo of some kind, which was transferred
to Cain as the tribe's eponym. The mark is said to afford Cain some
form of protection, in that harming Cain involved the harm being
returned sevenfold. This is hence seen as some sort of protection that
membership of the tribe offered, in a form such as the entire tribe
attacking an individual who harms just one of their number.
Baptist [ citation needed ]
and
Catholic [ citation needed ]
groups both consider the idea of God cursing an individual to be out of
character, and hence take a different stance. Catholics officially view
the curse being brought through the ground itself refusing to yield to,
not being in harmony with, Cain [ citation needed ] ,
whereas some Baptists view the curse as Cain's own aggression,
something already present that God merely pointed out rather than added.
There are several theories; in the Catholic world one example has been
put forth that rather this mark is one of grace, and that perhaps the
mark of is that of Abel's blood, [51]
by which God is saying, "This man is still mine. Vengeance is mine. I
will repay. Hands off!" As the heart of God is always ready to show
mercy. This view supports Abel as a Christ figure in paralleling
Christ’s sacrifice; here a blood sacrifice which acknowledges guilt and
counting himself as guilty seeks atonement (this is in contrast to
Cain's sacrifice) [52]
In
Judaism ,
the mark is not a punishment but a sign of God's mercy. When Cain was
sentenced to be a wanderer he did not dispute the punishment but only
begged that the terms of his sentence be altered slightly [ citation needed ] ,
protesting "Whoever meets me will kill me!" For unspecified reasons,
God agrees to this request. He puts the mark on Cain as a sign to others
that Cain should not be killed until he has had seven generations of
children. Lamech, Cain's descendant, refers poetically to the "mark of
Cain" in
Genesis 4:19-24 , in a passage which has been subject to several interpretations.
[ edit ]
Wanderer As Abel's murderer, Cain was commanded to wander the earth in
punishment, a tradition arose that this punishment was to be forever, in
a similar manner to the (much later) legends of the
Flying Dutchman
or the
Wandering Jew . According to some
Islamic
sources, such as
al-Tabari ,
Ibn Kathir
and
al-Tha'labi , he migrated to
Yemen .
Cain flying before Jehovah's Curse
Musée d'Orsay ,
Paris . Though variations on these traditions were strong in medieval times, with several claims of
sightings
being reported, they have generally gone out of favour. Nevertheless, the Wandering Cain theme has appeared in
Mormon folklore
(but not scripture)—a second-hand account relates that an early Mormon leader,
David W. Patten , encountered a very tall, hairy, dark-skinned man in
Tennessee
who said that he was Cain. The account states that Cain had earnestly
sought death but was denied it, and that his mission was to destroy the
souls of men. [53] [54]
The recollection of Patten's story is quoted in
Spencer W. Kimball 's
The Miracle of Forgiveness , a popular book within
The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints . [55]
This widespread Mormon belief is further emphasized by an account from
Salt Lake City in 1963 which stated that "One superstition is based on
the old Mormon belief that Cain is a black man who wanders the earth
begging people to kill him and take his curse upon themselves (M, 24,
SLC, 1963)." [56]
Despite these later traditional beliefs of perpetual wandering, according to the earlier
Book of Jubilees
(chapter 4) Cain settled down, marrying his sister,
Awan , resulting in his first son,
Enoch
(considered to be different from the more famous
Enoch ),
approximately 196 years after the creation of Adam. Cain then
established the first city, naming it after his son, built a house, and
lived there until it collapsed on him, killing him in the same year that
Adam died.
A medieval legend used to say that at the end, Cain arrived at the
Moon, where he eternally settled with a bundle of twigs. This was
originated by popular fantasy interpreting
the shadows on the Moon face . An example of this belief can be found in
Dante Alighieri 's
Inferno
(XX, 126 [57] ) where the expression "Cain and the twigs" is used as a synonym of "moon".
[ edit ]
Legacy and symbolism
15th century depiction of Cain and Abel
In
medieval Christian art , particularly in 16th century
Germany , Cain is depicted as a stereotypical
ringleted , bearded Jew, who killed Abel the blonde, European
gentile
symbolizing Christ. [58]
This traditional depiction has continued for centuries in some form, such as
James Tissot 's 19th century
Cain leads Abel to Death .
Another view is taken in
Latter-day Saint theology , where Cain is considered to be the quintessential
Son of Perdition , the father of
secret combinations
(i.e. secret societies and
organized crime ), as well as the first to hold the title
Master Mahan
meaning
master of [the] great secret, that [he] may murder and get gain . [ citation needed ]
The treatise on Christian Hermeticism,
Meditations on the Tarot: A journey into Christian Hermeticism ,
describes the Biblical account of Cain and Abel as a myth, ie. it
expresses, in a form narrated for a particular case, an "eternal" idea.
It shows us how brothers can become mortal enemies through the very fact
that they worship the same God in the same way. According to the
author, the source of religious wars is revealed. It is not the
difference in dogma or ritual which is the cause, but the "pretention to
equality" or "the negation of hierarchy". [59]
[ edit ]
Literature As the first murderer and first murder victim, Cain and Abel have often formed the basis of tragic drama.
Lord Byron
rewrote and dramatized the story in the poem " Cain ", viewing Cain as symbolic of a sanguinary temperament, provoked by Abel's hypocrisy and sanctimony. [58]
In
Dante 's
Purgatory
Cain is remembered by the souls in
Purgatory
in Canto XIV (14) on page 153, verse 133 saying "I shall be slain by
all who find me!", Cain is facing the punishment that God has visited
upon him for the sin of Envy, which is a similar play on the words in
Genesis 4:13-14
where he says, "I shall be a fugitive and a wanderer on the earth, and whoever finds me will kill me."
John Steinbeck 's novel
East of Eden
retells the Cain and Abel story in the setting of the late 19th and early 20th century western migration towards
California . Also, his novelette
Of Mice and Men
draws elements from the story.
Baudelaire
is more sympathetic to Cain in his poem "Abel et Caïn" in the collection
Les Fleurs du mal ,
where he depicts Cain as representing all the downtrodden people of the
world. The poem's last lines exhort, "Race de Caïn, au ciel monte/Et
sur la terre jette Dieu!" (In English: "Race of Cain, storm up the sky /
And cast God down to Earth!")
Miguel de Unamuno 's
Abel Sánchez
(1917) is a study on envy. Abel receives everything undeservingly,
while his friend Joaquín is despised by God and society and envies him.
In
Thornton Wilder 's play
The Skin Of Our Teeth
(1942), it is stated that Henry Antrobus' real name is Cain and he accidentally killed is brother Abel with a stone.
Kane and Abel
is a modern adaptation, a 1979 novel by British author
Jeffrey Archer . In 1985, it was made into a
CBS
television
miniseries
titled
Kane & Abel , starring
Peter Strauss
as Rosnovski and
Sam Neill
as Kane. In
A Time For Everything
(2004) by
Karl Ove Knausgård , the story of Cain and Abel is retold with a focus on Cain - an
introvert
and troubled man who gets the reader's sympathy. In this version, God's
favouring of Abel is simultaneously a curse for sneaking into
Eden
past the
Cherubs
guarding the gate. It is suggested that Abel in fact wants Cain to kill
him, or at least this is what Cain believes - though he later regrets
his act, and takes his punishment willingly.
Hermann Hesse
briefly discussed the story of Cain and Abel from a non-orthodox point of view in his novel
Demian
where he also referred to the gnostic group called the
Cainites . In
Ishmael ,
Daniel Quinn
puts forth the idea of the story of Cain and Abel being an allegory
describing the conflict between agricultural and pastoral peoples in the
Fertile Crescent .
The author of
Dracula ,
Bram Stoker , revisits the biblical tragedy in his story " The return of Abel Behena " about a fraternal friendship gone awry.
Some form of legacy or curse of the name is often seen in literature: the monster
Grendel
in
Beowulf
is a descendant of Cain. In the
epilogue
to
Agatha Christie 's novel
And Then There Were None , the author refers to the
Mark of Cain
in laying out the clues. There is a
Stephen King
short story titled
Cain Rose Up , in which a college student goes on a killing spree while ruminating on the story of Cain and Abel. In the
DC Comics
( Vertigo
division)
universe ,
Cain and Abel
are a pair of fictional characters based on the Biblical Cain and Abel, in
Neil Gaiman 's
Sandman
series. In the series, Cain is constantly killing off his brother, despite the fact they are both
immortals .
Cain was traditionally considered to have red hair; the expression "Cain-coloured beard" is used in
Shakespeare 's
The Merry Wives of Windsor . [58]
In addition, Shakespeare also references Cain and Abel in Act III Scene iii of
Hamlet
when Claudius says, "It hath the primal eldest curse upon't/ A brother's murder!" (Lines 40-41).
Their names are often used in works of fiction simply as a reference, also. In
Waiting for Godot
by
Samuel Beckett , the character of
Estragon
tries to guess the names of two other characters. He guesses Abel and Cain. One of
Jason Bourne 's many names in
The Bourne Identity
and its sequels was Cain, an operative name in the Treadstone 71 program.
Posted by
Mark and Merejen
at
6:12 PM
No comments:
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share to Pinterest
Links to this post
Reactions:
Sunday, October 10, 2010
It's the Corruption Stupid!
What Would Jesus Do, or say right now, about the way you treat your young people?
Sometimes people hit a nerve with me or push my buttons. I've made a comment elsewhere about the Congressman ordering the School to forbid homework on the weekends. That was a foolish enough idea, but fighting the President on adding extra years to the school system is illogical, immoral, and down right stupid. Below is a comment from the Presidents Kuro-Kuro site and my rebuttal.
etchell cuaycong on October 9, 2010 at 9:02 pm
adding more years to the education system. will not uprade the education. The quality of education of the philippines is already World Class. So it doesnt need changing. making the medium of education in english will make it better to compete to the world…. But adding years will just burden the over burdened and poor families and parents. ang hirap na nga lalo pang pahirapan…pwede ba? [sic]
Mark and Merejen
on October 9, 2010 at 11:14 pm
@etchell – You are almost right, the minds of your young people are World Class. Many of my wife’s friends attend college and talk with us all the time. I see how eager and intelligent your young people are, and I just cringe at the thought that they are only afforded 10 years of education at the expense of the State,. When in fact not only should the State provide free education for 12 years, I personally believe it should be 14. Those extra 2 years would be college preparatory or actually the first 2 years of a college program.
Now I know what everyone is thinking, how can the State afford to do this, and how can the parents afford to support their children these extra years. If anyone thinks that there are not smart enough accountants and budget analyst to figure that out then you have been living on a different plant these last few years. There are always answers many of which have been used for generations around the world. This is not that hard.
Yes, any change of this magnitude will take a lot of adjustment, but is anyone willing to tell me that the children of the Philippines are not worth it? What about how all you guys talk about how family is so important, I’ve heard it told that family is the only thing that matters. Really???? What about your children? Are they not part of your families?? My Lord, what kind of examples are you trying to set???
Mark and Merejen
on October 9, 2010 at 11:27 pm
And, I can even tell you where the money will come from. My Lord, it is so very simple my friends.
First, stop corruption immediately, that alone will put untold millions of pesos into the education system. Make certain that school officials are honest and that the honest ones do not have to pay out illegal SOP’s to contractors to get work and building accomplished. My Goodness how much do you think that will save?
Second, show the world that the Philippines is making true, lasting, democratic reforms making it easier to do business here. Companies around the world will start pouring in, wanting to get their share of an economic recovery. Oh how simple it all is, if only, if only. Each and every citizen would start today, taking responsibility for your actions, for your children, for you Family, and for your Nation.
I could go on and on, trying to explain the steps to economic recovery, but surly you get my point.
It’s the Corruption Stupid
Mark and Merejen
on October 9, 2010 at 11:39 pm
One has to question the family values of a society who wants so desperately to put your young people at a disadvantage. One has to wonder about the RH bill in earnest, if you take this obvious lack of family values into consideration.
If you care nothing about your children, and wish them to grow up struggling through life what kind of person does that make you? I guess you would even be ok with them, oh let’s say at 12 or 13 years old, go off and fight a Jihad.
Is that what you want the world to see really? I will tell all of you this, the Lord is looking down on you right now and shaking His Head and weeping.
Mark and Merejen
on October 10, 2010 at 12:31 am
But you say; how do we stop corruption? So very simple my friends, so simple. The President and his communication team contacts all; TV stations, Radio Stations, Newspapers, Magazines, Online News agencies and orders them to announce a public broadcast every hour that says; Any citizen witnessing corruption of any kind, or at any place, please send us a text message to cell number so and so, or if you have access to the internet contact us at email address so and so. Only together as a Nation can we put an end to these Childish Terroristic Threats of Corruption in our Country.
.
Now how would you like to be a corrupt official, police officer, teacher, whatever, knowing that everyone was going to be watching you? Watching over your shoulder as you try to pocket some SOP.
Jesus loved children, below is a list from the Christian website  Ministry-To-Children.com Children Are A Gift From God Bible Verses Behold, children are a heritage from the LORD, the fruit of the womb a
reward. Like arrows in the hand of a warrior are the children of one’s
youth. Blessed is the man who fills his quiver with them! He shall not
be put to shame when he speaks with his enemies in the gate.
(Psalms 127:3-5 ESV)
And when Esau lifted up his eyes and saw the women and children, he said, “Who are these with you?” Jacob said, “The children
whom God has graciously given
your servant.”
(Genesis 33:5 ESV)
He gives the barren woman a home, making her the joyous mother of children. Praise the LORD!
(Psalms 113:9 Holy Bible ESV)
Children Can Be Saved By God Bible Verses But as for you, continue in what you have learned and have firmly
believed, knowing from whom you learned it and how from childhood you
have been acquainted with the sacred writings, which are able to make
you wise for salvation through faith in Christ Jesus.
(2 Timothy 3:14-15 Holy Bible ESV)
I am reminded of your sincere faith, a faith that dwelt first in your
grandmother Lois and your mother Eunice and now, I am sure, dwells in
you as well.
(2 Timothy 1:5 ESV)
Children Can Praise and Worship God Bible Verses But when the chief priests and the scribes saw the wonderful things
that he did, and the children crying out in the temple, “Hosanna to the
Son of David!” they were indignant, and they said to him, “Do you hear
what these are saying?” And Jesus said to them, “Yes; have you never
read, “‘Out of the mouth of infants and nursing babies you have prepared
praise’?”
(Matthew 21:15-16 ESV)
Out of the mouth of babes and infants, you have established strength because of your foes, to still the enemy and the avenger.
(Psalms 8:2 ESV)
Children Are Examples Of Humble Faith In Jesus Bible Verses
And calling to him a child, he put him in the midst of them and said,
“Truly, I say to you, unless you turn and become like children, you
will never enter the kingdom of heaven. Whoever humbles himself like
this child is the greatest in the kingdom of heaven. “Whoever receives
one such child in my name receives me, but whoever causes one of these
little ones who believe in me to sin, it would be better for him to have
a great millstone fastened around his neck and to be drowned in the
depth of the sea.
(Matthew 18:2-6 ESV)
“See that you do not despise one of these little ones. For I tell you
that in heaven their angels always see the face of my Father who is in
heaven.
(Matthew 18:10 ESV)
Like newborn infants, long for the pure spiritual milk, that by it
you may grow up to salvation– if indeed you have tasted that the Lord is
good.
(1 Peter 2:2-3 ESV)
Jesus Has A Passion That No Child Be Lost Bible Verses What do you think? If a man has a hundred sheep and one of them has
gone astray, does he not leave the ninety-nine on the mountains and go
in search of the one that went astray? And if he finds it, truly, I say
to you, he rejoices over it more than over the ninety-nine that never
went astray. So it is not the will of my Father who is in heaven that
one of these little ones should perish.
(Matthew 18:12-14 ESV)
Bible Verses About Jesus Blessed The Children And they were bringing children to him that he might touch them, and
the disciples rebuked them. But when Jesus saw it, he was indignant and
said to them, “Let the children come to me; do not hinder them, for to
such belongs the kingdom of God. Truly, I say to you, whoever does not
receive the kingdom of God like a child shall not enter it.” And he took
them in his arms and blessed them, laying his hands on them.
(Mark 10:13-16 ESV)
Now they were bringing even infants to him that he might touch them.
And when the disciples saw it, they rebuked them. But Jesus called them
to him, saying, “Let the children come to me, and do not hinder them,
for to such belongs the kingdom of God. Truly, I say to you, whoever
does not receive the kingdom of God like a child shall not enter it.”
(Luke 18:15-17 ESV)
Discipline and Child Training Bible Verses Train up a child in the way he should go; even when he is old he will not depart from it.
(Proverbs 22:6 ESV)
Folly is bound up in the heart of a child, but the rod of discipline drives it far from him.
(Proverbs 22:15 ESV)
You shall teach them diligently to your children, and shall talk of
them when you sit in your house, and when you walk by the way, and when
you lie down, and when you rise.
(Deuteronomy 6:7 ESV)
Every one of you shall revere his mother and his father, and you shall keep my Sabbaths: I am the LORD your God.
(Leviticus 19:3 ESV)
My son, keep your father’s commandment, and forsake not your mother’s teaching.
(Proverbs 6:20 ESV)
Children, obey your parents in the Lord, for this is right. “Honor
your father and mother” (this is the first commandment with a promise),
“that it may go well with you and that you may live long in the land.”
Fathers, do not provoke your children to anger, but bring them up in the
discipline and instruction of the Lord.
(Ephesians 6:1-4 ESV)
Discipline your son, and he will give you rest; he will give delight to your heart.
(Proverbs 29:17 ESV)
Besides this, we have had earthly fathers who disciplined us and we
respected them. Shall we not much more be subject to the Father of
spirits and live? For they disciplined us for a short time as it seemed
best to them, but he disciplines us for our good, that we may share his
holiness. For the moment all discipline seems painful rather than
pleasant, but later it yields the peaceful fruit of righteousness to
those who have been trained by it.
(Hebrews 12:9-11 ESV)
Fathers, do not provoke your children to anger, but bring them up in the discipline and instruction of the Lord.
(Ephesians 6:4 ESV)
“Honor your father and your mother, that your days may be long in the land that the LORD your God is giving you.
(Exodus 20:12 ESV)
Grandchildren are the crown of the aged, and the glory of children is their fathers.
(Proverbs 17:6 ESV)
“You shall stand up before the gray head and honor the face of an old man, and you shall fear your God: I am the LORD.
(Leviticus 19:32 ESV)
Likewise, you who are younger, be subject to the elders. Clothe
yourselves, all of you, with humility toward one another, for “God
opposes the proud but gives grace to the humble.”
(1 Peter 5:5 ESV)
Discipline your son, and he will give you rest; he will give delight to your heart.
(Proverbs 29:17 ESV)
Hear, my son, your father’s instruction, and forsake not your
mother’s teaching, for they are a graceful garland for your head and
pendants for your neck.
(Proverbs 1:8-9 ESV)
(Jesus) went down with them and came to Nazareth and was submissive
to them. And his mother treasured up all these things in her heart. And
Jesus increased in wisdom and in stature and in favor with God and man.
(Luke 2:51-52 ESV)
Bible Verses About Children Who Were Made Kings By God Josiah was eight years old when he began to reign, and he reigned
thirty-one years in Jerusalem. And he did what was right in the eyes of
the LORD, and walked in the ways of David his father; and he did not
turn aside to the right hand or to the left. For in the eighth year of
his reign, while he was yet a boy, he began to seek the God of David his
father, and in the twelfth year he began to purge Judah and Jerusalem
of the high places, the Asherim, and the carved and the metal images.
(2 Chronicles 34:1-3 ESV)
More Bible Scriptures Verses That Mention Children Brothers, do not be children in your thinking. Be infants in evil, but in your thinking be mature.
(1 Corinthians 14:20 ESV)
“And I said to their children in the wilderness, Do not walk in the
statutes of your fathers, nor keep their rules, nor defile yourselves
with their idols.
(Ezekiel 20:18 ESV)
Remember also your Creator in the days of your youth, before the evil
days come and the years draw near of which you will say, “I have no
pleasure in them”;
(Ecclesiastes 12:1 ESV)
My son, fear the LORD and the king, and do not join with those who do
otherwise, for disaster from them will rise suddenly, and who knows the
ruin that will come from them both?
(Proverbs 24:21-22 ESV)
When all Israel comes to appear before the LORD your God at the place
that he will choose, you shall read this law before all Israel in their
hearing. Assemble the people, men, women, and little ones, and the
sojourner within your towns, that they may hear and learn to fear the
LORD your God, and be careful to do all the words of this law, and that
their children, who have not known it, may hear and learn to fear the
LORD your God, as long as you live in the land that you are going over
the Jordan to possess.”
(Deuteronomy 31:11-13 ESV)
“And when all these things come upon you, the blessing and the curse,
which I have set before you, and you call them to mind among all the
nations where the LORD your God has driven you, and return to the LORD
your God, you and your children, and obey his voice in all that I
command you today, with all your heart and with all your soul, then the
LORD your God will restore your fortunes and have compassion on you, and
he will gather you again from all the peoples where the LORD your God
has scattered you.
(Deuteronomy 30:1-3 ESV)
But if a widow has children or grandchildren, let them first learn to
show godliness to their own household and to make some return to their
parents, for this is pleasing in the sight of God.
(1 Timothy 5:4 ESV)
May the LORD give you increase, you and your children!
(Psalms 115:14 ESV)
I mean that the heir, as long as he is a child, is no different from a
slave, though he is the owner of everything, but he is under guardians
and managers until the date set by his father. In the same way we also,
when we were children, were enslaved to the elementary principles of the
world. But when the fullness of time had come, God sent forth his Son,
born of woman, born under the law, to redeem those who were under the
law, so that we might receive adoption as sons.
(Galatians 4:1-5 ESV)
You shall not bow down to them or serve them, for I the LORD your God
am a jealous God, visiting the iniquity of the fathers on the children
to the third and the fourth generation of those who hate me, but showing
steadfast love to thousands of those who love me and keep my
commandments.
(Exodus 20:5-6 ESV)
“Only take care, and keep your soul diligently, lest you forget the
things that your eyes have seen, and lest they depart from your heart
all the days of your life. Make them known to your children and your
children’s children–
(Deuteronomy 4:9 ESV)
You shall teach them to your children, talking of them when you are
sitting in your house, and when you are walking by the way, and when you
lie down, and when you rise.
(Deuteronomy 11:19 ESV)
So the water has been healed to this day, according to the word that
Elisha spoke. He went up from there to Bethel, and while he was going up
on the way, some small boys came out of the city and jeered at him,
saying, “Go up, you baldhead! Go up, you baldhead!” And he turned
around, and when he saw them, he cursed them in the name of the LORD.
And two she-bears came out of the woods and tore forty-two of the boys.
(2 Kings 2:22-24 Holy Bible ESV)
“But to what shall I compare this generation? It is like children
sitting in the marketplaces and calling to their playmates, “‘We played
the flute for you, and you did not dance; we sang a dirge, and you did
not mourn.’
(Matthew 11:16-17 Holy Bible ESV)
The wolf shall dwell with the lamb, and the leopard shall lie down
with the young goat, and the calf and the lion and the fattened calf
together; and a little child shall lead them.”
(Isaiah 11:6 ESV)
I hope these children Bible verses were encouraging and inspiration.
Perhaps you’ve already used some of these for Bible memory. These are
some of the most famous Bible quotes.
Posted by
Mark and Merejen
at
12:48 AM
No comments:
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share to Pinterest
Links to this post
Reactions:
Saturday, October 9, 2010
Get Thee Behind me satan!!!
Below is my response to an article in Kuro-Kuro from a heathen muslim entitled: “ISLAMIC PERSPECTIVE ON ENVIRONMENT VIZ-A-VIZ MINDANAO NATURAL RESOURCES”
Ernesto T. Santa Cruz, you demonic minion of satan; you may have many fooled, but you do not fool this man of God. You and your kind are on the losing side, and you don't even realize it yet. My Lord and Savior Jesus Christ will rebuke you. You are destined for the fiery pit of hell, and damnation is what awaits you for an eternity. Your only chance, which not one of you will take, is to humble yourself before the Lord God Almighty and ask His forgiveness.
You and your lying, murdering, prophet; have worked hand in hand with satan to take over this world with your Holy War, but you are destined to fail, and when you do there will be no second chances, your future is written in the Book of Revelations where this time would come to pass. You think you have invaded enough of the world that you are superior, but your weaknesses will bring you down.
You and your kind are a disgrace to the human race. Your despicable prohet, muhammad ibn ‘abdullāh was a liar, murderer, and molested woman and probably children. He was cast out of his place of birth for promoting unGodly beliefs, came back after building an army of fools, and destroyed the entire city out of revenge. The One True God, would never condone revenge therefore whatever you call your god, his real name is satan.
There are enough good Christians in this world to stand against all of you, but remember; we have the Lord and Savior Jesus Christ on our side. Our robes will be washed white as snow and we will dwell with our Heavenly Father forever and ever. At the most you get to make you noises for 7 years, then the end comes, and you will be defeated in the mighty battle of Armageddon. You and your god satan, with the anti-christ will be cast down into the fires of hell; where you will feel, and live the torment you so much deserve. Remember who you fight, satan remembers him well, you are going against Father God, Jesus Christ, all the Archangels, the other Angels, and His One True Church. You will fight against the likes of me, a person who will not stop, will not rest, until all you heathen are destroyed.
Get thee behind me satan, in the Name of our Lord Savior, Jesus Christ I BIND you and your minions from any harm against Good, Honest, Christians. I CALL down 10,000 Angels to surround and protect each one of us. We stand firmly on Your Side Oh Lord, we commit ourselves to Your Glory and your Loving Kindness.
Posted by
Mark and Merejen
at
6:14 PM
No comments:
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share to Pinterest
Links to this post
Reactions:
Newer Posts
Older Posts
Home
Subscribe to:
Posts (Atom)
There was an error in this gadget
About Me
Mark and Merejen
Lianga, Surigao del Sur, Philippines
Merejen is the Filipina wife of Mark who is an American. All content in this blog is available for posting anywhere, there will never be a charge for any of the articles contained herein. The writer will never ask for any financial support for this endeavor, if support is offered, it will be refused. This is the mission Yahushua/Jesus Christ has assigned to me, please do not belittle my wish to follow the leading of my Savior by offering money, gifts, or, recognition for what I do for our Messiah. We moderate all comments. We accept responsibility for everything we write. Here you will find only the truth as best we know it.
View my complete profile
Inspiration
Quote DB
Search this blog
Loading...
United States Coast Guard
Philippine American Family
PhilAm Pride
Recent Visitors
My Blog Links
A Lianga Diary
A Lianga Diary: Bantay Salakay
A Lianga Diary: Mark's Trevails
A Lianga Diary: Other Voices
A Look at American Democracy!
Barangay Saint Christine Development Plan
Bulatlat
Diatagon
Helium Asia - Where Coconuts Reign
Jef Menguin - Transform the Filipino Dream
Jesus Christ Crowned with thorns
The Lost Filipino
Archive
►
2013
(2)
►
July
(2)
►
2011
(4)
►
June
(1)
►
May
(3)
▼
2010
(51)
►
November
(5)
▼
October
(36)
Rapture and Heaven by Mark Borders
What Time is It Now?
It's the Corruption Stupid!
Get Thee Behind me satan!!!
Prepare for the End Times!
The Plan to Salvation
My Friends, Consider This
On the right side? Are you?
Listening for that Still Small Voice
My Dear Friends Back Home
End of Days???
Mistakes: Chastisement, Understanding, and Forgive...
Encouragement from Carlos
How to get started.
The Answer
Looking for Encouragement
Sins against me???
Mathew 6
To Cynthia a friend
Why the "Attacks"?
Stop the Presses!!!
Wheel of Life
Footprints
He Stands at the door and knocks. . .
It Might Be Time!
Hot or Cold?
Past Advice
Folks Please
I Had to Share This
Properly Managing The Philippines A Must - Comment...
Lockdown!
Sad
SOP
What Now?
The Battle is Over, And Jesus Is Lord.
I'm So Sorry
►
September
(7)
►
August
(2)
►
April
(1)
►
2009
(3)
►
June
(1)
►
February
(2)
►
2008
(8)
►
November
(2)
►
October
(1)
►
July
(3)
►
January
(2)
►
2007
(3)
►
December
(3)
Visiting Countries
Labels
Accident
(1)
Business
(11)
Corruption
(4)
Development Plan
(1)
Family
(2)
Family Only
(1)
Gas Station
(6)
Phoenix
(4)
Questions
(1)
Religion
(2)
Roads
(1)
Sawmill
(2)
Tourism
(1)
Quote of the Day
Quote DB />
Subscribe To
Posts
Atom
Posts
All Comments
Atom
All Comments
My Lord and Savior
Web of Trust
History
Blog Patrol
Bravenet Counter
Watermark template. Powered by
Blogger .