Batwoman | Ty Templeton's ART LAND!!
Ty Templeton's ART LAND!!
Skip to content
Home **Bun Toons** All About Ty About Ask a Question… Internet Entries Recent Work Request for Interviews Request for Work Videos Credits APPEARANCES 2015 CLASSES Cover Gallery Dexter by Ty HOLMES INC. STIG’S INFERNO Ty’s Lists!
Tag Archives:
Batwoman
Bun Toon #3 for 2013! YAY!
Posted on
December 30, 2013
|
8 comments
NUMBER #3
We’re into the medal rounds now, former babies!  Bronze for EVERYONE!
Towards the middle of the summer, there was a bit of a kerfuffle about whether or not DC Comics wanted to let Batwoman get married.  The writers wanted her to, the editors didn’t…and when you add to the mix that Batmwoman was all lady-gay, and planning to marry a lady-gay Gotham City Cop, the story got all controversial-like.
Since DC Comics didn’t plan to publish the wedding issue… I had to step in.
Apparently, there was some kerfuffle about Ben Affleck as well.  Who can keep track of the internet’s Bat-Kerfuffles?  At least I’m here to solve everyone’s problems, and that’s what magical bunnies are for.
—————————————————————————————————-
Our third LEAST popular Bun Toon was one I ran just a couple of weeks ago.  Ignore it again, I dare you!
If you’re keeping score, that’s the SECOND time a holiday themed Bun Toon has spiked the big enchilada in the last twelve months. (Easter didn’t work either.)  Failure used to be restricted to the continuing story of The Contessa Von Shoenfeld, or True Dentistry Stories, but this year, I couldn’t scare up an audience on the vacation days.    Perhaps family truly IS more important than snarky interenet rabbits.
—————————————————————————————————
Since this finishing-nearly-last X-Mas Bun Toon was a re-run from JUST last week for Buddha’s sake, I’m re-running my personal favorite BUN TOON from the Summer, simply because it’s my fave, and it  didn’t make the top five (just barely).  So I get to do it again in this year end retrospective because…well.
Mike emailed me a couple of days after this ran to thank me for “saving his life”, even if it ruined his big finish.
See you tomorrow for the ALMOST most popular Bun Toon and the REALLY NOT VERY popular Bun Toons at….NUMBER TWO!!
Ty the Guy OUT!
Share this: Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window) Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window) Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window) Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window) Like this: Like
Loading...
8 Comments
Posted in
bun toons ,
Bunny Funnies ,
Ty Toons
Tagged
Batfleck ,
Batwoman ,
Ben Affleck ,
Chris Claremont ,
DC Comics ,
Gay rights ,
LGBT ,
marriage equality ,
Mike Grell
Because I Care Bun Toons! YAY!
Posted on
September 7, 2013
|
16 comments
I gave at the office, AND I give online.
The internet is usually a quiet place where people are calm and don’t overreact to things.  But this week, the comic fans on the web are up in arms about not getting something they want.  Since that never happens, I had no choice but to roll up my sleeves and pitch in…
It’s not missionary work, but it’s just as satisfying.
Ty the Guy OUT!
For your fabulous Bonus, I give you the LAST time Batwoman was heading for the altar (and didn’t make it).
Of course, the homosexual subtext was completely different back in the fifties.  I suppose we can blame Eisenhower.
—————————————————————————————————
For last week’s equally SEXUALLY charged Bun Toons, click above
For the Bun Toon archive, a hotbed of inter-gender activity, click the smutty rabbit above.
Share this: Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window) Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window) Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window) Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window) Like this: Like
Loading...
16 Comments
Posted in
bun toons ,
Bunny Funnies ,
Ty Toons
Tagged
Batman ,
Batwoman ,
Batwoman marriage ,
Ben Affleck ,
controversy ,
DC Comics ,
gay marriage ,
Lesbian ,
LGBTQ ,
Maggie Sawyer ,
Marriage ,
marriage equality ,
superhero movies
Today, for Spirit Day
Posted on
October 20, 2010
|
4 comments
a re-posting of
“The  Seven Best Gay Characters in Comics”
(originally posted September 13, 2010)
Last week,  the seven most MISGUIDED attempts at Gay Characters in comics .  This week:  The Seven Best Gay Characters in Comics –   Because the glass is half full, and I know how to swirl it around.
Who am I to make such a list?  What are my credentials?
I’ve read more comics than you have – (Unless you’re  Mark Waid , and then I’m sorry for being presumptuous, my superior master) –  And because I have a blog and you don’t.   I found this one on the street near my friend Kevin’s house, and now it’s mine , so no one can stop me.
THE SEVEN BEST GAY CHARACTERS IN COMICS.
7) WICCAN
(BILLY KAPLAN) – (and his boyfriend Hulkling (TED ALTMAN)
Can you guess which one’s called “Hulkling” and which one’s “Wiccan”?
Wiccan is part of a Mighty Marvel Royal Family.
Kissing cousin to damn near everyone.
He is (more or less) the son of mutant Wanda Maximov (the Scarlet Witch), making him the grandson of Magneto (X-Men bad guy), nephew to Quicksilver (X-Men/Avenger asshole), twin brother of SPEED (Young Avengers teen), and step-son (?) to the Silver Age Vision, who used to be the golden age Human Torch –  also Wiccan is first cousin to Luna, daughter or Crystal, who was the ex-girlfriend of the CURRENT Human Torch, which makes Billy Kaplan part of the extended families of the Fantastic Four, the X-Men and the Avengers – requiring every Marvel hero but Daredevil to let him crash on the couch for two days, unannounced.
And Wiccan’s boyfriend, Hulkling, is the son of Captain Mar-vell and a Skrull Princess named Analee.  So he’s an Avengers brat too.
Young Avengers Presents #3
It’s often said that there’s someone gay in every extended family in America (whether you know it or not) and Marvel finally acknowledged it with one of the main families of the Marvel U.
But what really lands BILLY on the list are these scenes from YOUNG AVENGERS PRESENTS  Issue #3…. Wiccan has spent the issue with his brother, trying to find his missing, presumed dead mom, the Scarlet Witch, and along the way, they’re told she’s not going to be found, and handed this piece of advice….
-and when he’s home later, with Hulkling, he realizes how wonderful THAT moment with his boyfriend is…
Notice, the gay boyfriend isn’t a temptation to deny, or a problem to solve, or a secret to hide from his family – the boyfriend is a magical blessing in Wiccan’s life.  There’s yer hopeful ending, right there, and it comes from someone in the family… the “Dick Cheney’s daughter” of the Marvel Universe, if I may use a metaphor bluntly and badly.
6)  BATWOMAN
-KATE KANE
Pretty. pretty…
After the first few Batwoman issues of Detective I found I liked the comic, but didn’t love the protagonist.  It was BEAUTIFULLY illustrated by J.H. Williams III, over an action -packed Greg Rucka plot about a weird Alice in Wonderland cult -all entertaining as hell — but I hadn’t had that “moment” where I was won over by Batwoman, (or Kate Kane), as a character in her own right.  There was much butt kicking and leaping, but ALL the bat-gang do that.
–
But then, we came to this scene in Detective 856, where Ms. Kane arrives at a charity function dressed in a formal tuxedo, rocking a post-goth, post-Patrick Nagel thing, and strutting like it was her palace.
Her confidence in facing down disapproving relatives and openly flirtatious police captains, won me over but good.
I love her body language, her dialog, that touch of arrogance, all while working clues to a super-crime in her head.  Dare I say it, it reminded me of Bruce Wayne – in a way that Dick Grayson, Tim Drake or Barbara Gordon never did – the way Kate just OWNED that room and the story.
So as of ‘Tec 856, Kate Kane had “it” for me.
As the next few issues followed, and we learned of Kate’s bizarre back story, her brutal family tragedy, her “honorable” discharge from the Army, and her wonderful, complex relationship with her father, this comic became the surprise hit of the year for me.  More of this, thanks!
And oh, yeah.  She’s gay.  Just part of the overall weave, my friends.
5) MARK SLACKMEYER
From Doonesbury.
Mark is one of the four founding characters of one of the five best comic strips of the 20th Century  ( Pogo ,  Calvin and Hobbes ,  Peanuts
and  L’il Abner are the other four) and DECADES into Mark’s story in the strip, he turns out to be gay.  It seemed a little forced when the idea first arrived, but I never should have doubted  Mr. Garry Trudeau , Lord of the  Doonesbury .  In fairly short order, Megaphone Mark, the ultra liberal student radical turned NPR radio host settles down with a man who is his opposite in nearly every way – a log cabin Republican, conservative money-pusher named Chase Talbot III (who is the embodiment of Mark’s much hated, ultra-conservative father) and they become a bickering married couple on the radio.  BRILLIANT comics, great satire and very real human comedy for anyone with a passing recognition of the Oedipal Complex or the tropes of 70s family sitcoms.
And yet, they’re in love.
Mark and Chase are separated now, but their time together was a high water mark in what is still the best comic strip running in  American papers.
4)  MIDNIGHTER
-(and his lovely husband, Apollo)
From the ultra right wing, ultra violent Wildstorm series, STORMWATCH, comes the most militant homosexual “super-hero” in history.
What’s not to LOVE about Midnighter?  He’s Gay Batman, for god’s sake.  PLUS he’s got a special instant super-healing power, and a murderous temper which makes him gay Wolverine-Batman.  Which is really gay Dark
Like this guy…only attracted to men, see?
Claw, and that’s the whole enchilada right there.  Gay Dark Claw.  Dark Claw , only gay.  And his boyfriend is essentially gay Superman, only  named Apollo.  It makes me wish I was gay, so I could love Midnighter even more.
What started off as a  Warren Ellis
one-joke about a long believed super-hero subtext, became an actually interesting pair of characters over the next few years of Stormwatch, and then, AUTHORITY.   Midnighter and Apollo were a little more bloodthirsty than you expected, more fiercely loyal to each other than you expected, and more physically affectionate with each other than any other gay characters in comics were at the time, but they were written with wit and cleverness, even if the dialog tended towards sneering British ‘tude, And they were a genuine couple, in love and committed to each other, even adopting a child together.  (A reincarnation of a teammate, but let’s not go THERE).
They really do kiss a lot, these two…when they’re not slaughtering super-villains.
When MIDNIGHTER launched in his own monthly series, the first couple of story lines included one of the BEST time travel adventures ever, and some of the best done-in-one comic tales being published.
He’s Gay Dark Claw.  Does this need to be explained again?
–
3) LAWRENCE POIRIER
FOR BETTER OR FOR WORSE
Coming out to your family or friends was a dangerous thing to do in 1993.  Lynn Johnson , creator of  FOR BETTER OR FOR WORSE , discovered it was a dangerous thing to do on the comics pages of your local newspaper.
When Michael Patterson’s life long friend Lawrence told Michael he was gay, Lynn Johnson received countless hate letters and death threats from around the world….just for showing the comic strip pages that a gay person simply existed.  Over one hundred newspapers in the United States dropped her very popular comic strip until the offendingly gay Lawrence was out of the spotlight … And the intolerance wasn’t just in the real world for this poor teen –  As his fictional story continued, Lawrence told his stepfather he’d met a college boy and fallen in love, and that bit of honesty got Lawrence thrown out of his house.
Now, in the middle of all that abuse and hatred, Lawrence does something remarkable:   He remains polite.  He rages very little, he tells Michael how much he appreciates his friend’s support, and quietly waits for the rest of the world to realize how badly they’re behaving towards him.  He makes this an epic story of dignity in the middle of intolerable behavior from damn near everyone else.  All from a small, slightly terrified 17 year old boy.
THAT’s a Super-hero in my book.
2)  TOLAND POLK
Stuck Rubber Baby
Toland Polk is a fictionalized character, very loosely based on the early life of writer/ artist   HOWARD CRUSE , one of comics’ more notably “out” underground cartoonists of the 70s and 80s.  The 1995 graphic novel STUCK RUBBER BABY is a dense narrative about Toland’s early adulthood, living in the American South in the 1960s, and slowly discovering that he’s slightly racist, and very gay, and that he can only learn to stop being ONE of those things.
One of the best novels I’ve ever read about growing up.  It won the Harvey and the Eisner for best Graphic Novel in 95, as well as a bunch of other best thing-on-Earth awards that year.  Stuck Rubber Baby, stands with Maus, Barefoot Gen or Contract with God, as a rare comic life story that NEVER leaves you.  By the time it’s over, Toland Polk is one of your favorite people.
–
1) ESPERANZA “HOPEY” GLASS.
LOVE AND ROCKETS.
Teen Hopey, mind you.
Ahh…. Love and Rockets
– the 80s comic book you could give your date, and she would “get it”.  QUICK HISTORY LESSON: Fangirls started hanging around comic shops because of  Jaime Hernandez’
“LOCAS” series in  Love and Rockets , long before
Sandman
was a gleam in VERTIGO’s creepy eye.
Though it started as the sci-fi story of two giggling, pro-solar mechanics named Maggie and Hopey (and Maggie’s major crush, RAND RACE), the series, LOCAS, quickly became about two unemployed EX-pro-solar mechanics/ slackers who  hang around the LA Hispanic 80s Punk Rock / Wrestling world, falling in and out of trouble (and love) while picking up an ASTOUNDINGLY complex and interesting supporting cast.
What holds the series together, is that EVERYBODY loves the adorable lead character, Maggie Chascarrillo —
Ray loves Maggie.  Speedy loved Maggie.  Penny loves Maggie.  Izzy loves Maggie, and the readers love Maggie, but MOST of all, HOPEY loves Maggie.
Hopey really, really loves her.  It makes Hopey’s jackboot-wearing street-cynic party-girl butch-punk lesbian heart melt every time she’s in a room with Mags, and Maggie loves Hopey right back, except Mags couldn’t give up men forever, even for Hopey….which is the basis for much of the drama in the first decade of their relationship.
We’ve all watched Hopey’s heart break a few times, and along the way, I think we all fell in love with the abrasive little bitch who couldn’t play the bass worth a damn.  She was annoyingly human, after all.
Jamie’s not mean to Hopey…she gets to kiss Mags every now and then.
The stunning artwork by author/artist  Jamie Hernandez didn’t hurt the reader’s enjoyment of the series either.
THERE WAS NO ROOM FOR MORE
I didn’t write about Anole, or Graymalkin, or any of the gay X-Men, because I confess I rarely read X-Men books (there’s simply too many), and I’m not familiar with their stories, sorry.
Krazy Kat
was strongly considered, but Kat went from being male to female so regularly, that Ignatz may have been bisexual, instead of gay, without knowing it, and who needs that confusion?  There was simply no  room for Bitchy Butch ( Roberta Gregory’s
wonderfully awful dyke character from Naughty  Bits ), or  Element Lad , or Constantine , or any from the legion of lesbian detectives, wonderful characters all.
-And finally…
Get yer mind out of the gutter right now, soldier!
… I never brought up Peppermint Patty and Marcie because they aren’t lesbians, all right?  Get over it people.  They both had a crush on “Chuck”, and ONLY Chuck, never each other… and you can’t tell a person’s orientation simply because of how they wear pants.  Marcie didn’t even LIKE softball.  Good GRIEF! Don’t be such a hater.
TY THE GUY OUT!
Here now, your comic book moment of zen:
Share this: Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window) Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window) Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window) Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window) Like this: Like
Loading...
4 Comments
Posted in
Comics that Matter
Tagged
Apollo ,
Batwoman ,
Bitchy Butch ,
DC Comics ,
Doonesbury ,
Esperanza "Hopey" Glass ,
For Better or for Worse ,
gay comic book characters ,
gay-positive portrayals ,
Howard Cruse ,
Hulkling ,
Jaime Hernandez ,
Krazy Kat ,
Lawrence Poirier ,
LGBTQ ,
Love and Rockets ,
Lynn Johnson ,
Mark Slackmeyer ,
Midnighter ,
Spirit Day ,
Stuck Rubber Baby ,
Toland Polk ,
Wiccan ,
Wildstorm Comics
THE SEVEN BEST GAY CHARACTERS IN COMICS.-
Posted on
September 12, 2010
|
43 comments
Last week,
the seven most MISGUIDED attempts at Gay Characters in comics .  This week:  The Seven Best Gay Characters in Comics –   Because the glass is half full, and I know how to swirl it around.
Who am I to make such a list?  What are my credentials?
I’ve read more comics than you have – (Unless you’re
Mark Waid , and then I’m sorry for being presumptuous, my superior master) –  And because I have a blog and you don’t.   I found this one on the street near my friend Kevin’s house, and now it’s mine , so no one can stop me.
THE SEVEN BEST GAY CHARACTERS IN COMICS.
7) Wiccan
(BILLY KAPLAN)
– (and his boyfriend Hulkling (TED ALTMAN)
Can you guess which one's called "Hulkling" and which one's "Wiccan"?
Wiccan is part of a Mighty Marvel Royal Family.
Kissing cousin to damn near everyone.
He is (more or less) the son of mutant Wanda Maximov (the Scarlet Witch), making him the grandson of Magneto (X-Men bad guy), nephew to Quicksilver (X-Men/Avenger asshole), twin brother of SPEED (Young Avengers teen), and step-son (?) to the Silver Age Vision, who used to be the golden age Human Torch –  also Wiccan is first cousin to Luna, daughter or Crystal, who was the ex-girlfriend of the CURRENT Human Torch, which makes Billy Kaplan part of the extended families of the Fantastic Four, the X-Men and the Avengers – requiring every Marvel hero but Daredevil to let him crash on the couch for two days, unannounced.
And Wiccan’s boyfriend, Hulkling, is the son of Captain Mar-vell and a Skrull Princess named Analee.  So he’s an Avengers brat too.
Young Avengers Presents #3
It’s often said that there’s someone gay in every extended family in America (whether you know it or not) and Marvel finally acknowledged it with one of the main families of the Marvel U.
But what really lands BILLY on the list are these scenes from YOUNG AVENGERS PRESENTS  Issue #3…. Wiccan has spent the issue with his brother, trying to find his missing, presumed dead mom, the Scarlet Witch, and along the way, they’re told she’s not going to be found, and handed this piece of advice….
-and when he’s home later, with Hulkling, he realizes how wonderful THAT moment with his boyfriend is…
Notice, the gay boyfriend isn’t a temptation to deny, or a problem to solve, or a secret to hide from his family – the boyfriend is a magical blessing in Wiccan’s life.  There’s yer hopeful ending, right there, and it comes from someone in the family… the “Dick Cheney’s daughter” of the Marvel Universe, if I may use a metaphor bluntly and badly.
6)  Batwoman
-KATE KANE
Pretty.
pretty...
After the first few Batwoman issues of Detective I found I liked the comic, but didn’t love the protagonist.  It was BEAUTIFULLY illustrated by J.H.
Williams III, over an action -packed Greg Rucka plot about a weird Alice in Wonderland cult -all entertaining as hell — but I hadn’t had that “moment” where I was won over by Batwoman, (or Kate Kane), as a character in her own right.  There was much butt kicking and leaping, but ALL the bat-gang do that.
–
But then, we came to this scene in Detective 856, where Ms. Kane arrives at a charity function dressed in a formal tuxedo, rocking a post-goth, post-Patrick Nagel thing, and strutting like it was her palace.
Her confidence in facing down disapproving relatives and openly flirtatious police captains, won me over but good.
I love her body language, her dialog, that touch of arrogance, all while working clues to a super-crime in her head.  Dare I say it, it reminded me of Bruce Wayne – in a way that Dick Grayson, Tim Drake or Barbara Gordon never did – the way Kate just OWNED that room and the story.
So as of ‘Tec 856, Kate Kane had “it” for me.
As the next few issues followed, and we learned of Kate’s bizarre back story, her brutal family tragedy, her “honorable” discharge from the Army, and her wonderful, complex relationship with her father, this comic became the surprise hit of the year for me.  More of this, thanks!
And oh, yeah.  She’s gay.  Just part of the overall weave, my friends.
5) Mark Slackmeyer
From Doonesbury.
Mark is one of the four founding characters of one of the five best comic strips of the 20th Century  ( Pogo ,
Calvin and Hobbes ,
Peanuts
and
L’il Abner
are the other four) and DECADES into Mark’s story in the strip, he turns out to be gay.  It seemed a little forced when the idea first arrived, but I never should have doubted
Mr. Garry Trudeau , Lord of the
Doonesbury .  In fairly short order, Megaphone Mark, the ultra liberal student radical turned NPR radio host settles down with a man who is his opposite in nearly every way – a log cabin Republican, conservative money-pusher named Chase Talbot III (who is the embodiment of Mark’s much hated, ultra-conservative father) and they become a bickering married couple on the radio.  BRILLIANT comics, great satire and very real human comedy for anyone with a passing recognition of the Oedipal Complex or the tropes of 70s family sitcoms.
And yet, they're in love.
Mark and Chase are separated now, but their time together was a high water mark in what is still the best comic strip running in  American papers.
4)  Midnighter
-(and his lovely husband, Apollo)
From the ultra right wing, ultra violent Wildstorm series, STORMWATCH, comes the most militant homosexual “super-hero” in history.
What’s not to LOVE about Midnighter?  He’s Gay Batman, for god’s sake.  PLUS he’s got a special instant super-healing power, and a murderous temper which makes him gay Wolverine-Batman.  Which is really gay Dark
Like this guy...only attracted to men, see?
Claw, and that’s the whole enchilada right there.  Gay Dark Claw.
Dark Claw , only gay.  And his boyfriend is essentially gay Superman, only  named Apollo.  It makes me wish I was gay, so I could love Midnighter even more.
What started off as a
Warren Ellis
one-joke about a long believed super-hero subtext, became an actually interesting pair of characters over the next few years of Stormwatch, and then, AUTHORITY.   Midnighter and Apollo were a little more bloodthirsty than you expected, more fiercely loyal to each other than you expected, and more physically affectionate with each other than any other gay characters in comics were at the time, but they were written with wit and cleverness, even if the dialog tended towards sneering British ‘tude, And they were a genuine couple, in love and committed to each other, even adopting a child together.  (A reincarnation of a teammate, but let’s not go THERE).
They really do kiss a lot, these two...when they're not slaughtering super-villains.
When MIDNIGHTER launched in his own monthly series, the first couple of story lines included one of the BEST time travel adventures ever, and some of the best done-in-one comic tales being published.
He’s Gay Dark Claw.  Does this need to be explained again?
–
3) Lawrence Poirier
FOR BETTER OR FOR WORSE
Coming out to your family or friends was a dangerous thing to do in 1993.
Lynn Johnson , creator of
FOR BETTER OR FOR WORSE , discovered it was a dangerous thing to do on the comics pages of your local newspaper.
When Michael Patterson’s life long friend Lawrence told Michael he was gay, Lynn Johnson received countless hate letters and death threats from around the world….just for showing the comic strip pages that a gay person simply existed.  Over one hundred newspapers in the United States dropped her very popular comic strip until the offendingly gay Lawrence was out of the spotlight … And the intolerance wasn’t just in the real world for this poor teen –  As his fictional story continued, Lawrence told his stepfather he’d met a college boy and fallen in love, and that bit of honesty got Lawrence thrown out of his house.
Now, in the middle of all that abuse and hatred, Lawrence does something remarkable:   He remains polite.  He rages very little, he tells Michael how much he appreciates his friend’s support, and quietly waits for the rest of the world to realize how badly they’re behaving towards him.  He makes this an epic story of dignity in the middle of intolerable behavior from damn near everyone else.  All from a small, slightly terrified 17 year old boy.
THAT’s a Super-hero in my book.
2)  Toland Polk
Stuck Rubber Baby
Toland Polk is a fictionalized character, very loosely based on the early life of writer/ artist
HOWARD CRUSE , one of comics’ more notably “out” underground cartoonists of the 70s and 80s.  The 1995 graphic novel STUCK RUBBER BABY is a dense narrative about Toland’s early adulthood, living in the American South in the 1960s, and slowly discovering that he’s slightly racist, and very gay, and that he can only learn to stop being ONE of those things.
One of the best novels I’ve ever read about growing up.  It won the Harvey
and the Eisner for best Graphic Novel in 95, as well as a bunch of other best thing-on-Earth awards that year.  Stuck Rubber Baby, stands with Maus, Barefoot Gen or Contract with God, as a rare comic life story that NEVER leaves you.  By the time it’s over, Toland Polk is one of your favorite people.
–
1) Esperanza “Hopey” Glass.
LOVE AND ROCKETS.
Teen Hopey, mind you.
Ahh…. Love and Rockets
– the 80s comic book you could give your date, and
she would “get it”.  QUICK HISTORY LESSON: Fangirls started hanging around comic shops because of
Jaime Hernandez’
“LOCAS” series in
Love and Rockets , long before
Sandman
was a gleam in VERTIGO’s creepy eye.
Though it started as the sci-fi story of two giggling, pro-solar mechanics named Maggie and Hopey (and Maggie’s major crush, RAND RACE), the series, LOCAS, quickly became about two unemployed EX-pro-solar mechanics/ slackers who
hang around the LA Hispanic 80s Punk Rock / Wrestling world, falling in and out of trouble (and love) while picking up an ASTOUNDINGLY complex and interesting supporting cast.
What holds the series together, is that EVERYBODY loves the adorable lead character, Maggie Chascarrillo —
Ray loves Maggie.  Speedy loved Maggie.  Penny loves Maggie.  Izzy loves
Maggie, and the readers love Maggie, but MOST of all, HOPEY loves
Maggie.
Hopey really, really loves her.  It makes Hopey’s jackboot-wearing street-cynic party-girl butch-punk lesbian heart melt every time she’s in a room with Mags, and Maggie loves Hopey right back, except Mags couldn’t give up men forever, even for Hopey….which is the basis for much of the drama in the first decade of their relationship.
We’ve all watched Hopey’s heart break a few times, and along the way, I think we all fell in love with the abrasive little bitch who couldn’t play the bass worth a damn.  She was annoyingly human, after all.
Jamie's not mean to Hopey...she gets to kiss Mags every now and then.
The stunning artwork by author/artist  Jamie Hernandez didn’t hurt the reader’s enjoyment of the series either.
THERE WAS NO ROOM for MORE
I didn’t write about Anole, or Graymalkin, or any of the gay X-Men, because I confess I rarely read X-Men books (there’s simply too many), and I’m not familiar with their stories, sorry.
Krazy Kat
was strongly considered, but Kat went from being male to female so regularly, that Ignatz may have been bisexual, instead of gay, without knowing it, and who needs that confusion?  There was simply no
room for Bitchy Butch ( Roberta Gregory’s
wonderfully awful dyke character from
Naughty
Bits ), or
Element Lad , or
Constantine , or any from the legion of lesbian detectives, wonderful characters all.
-And finally…
Get yer mind out of the gutter right now, soldier!
… I never brought up Peppermint Patty and Marcie because they aren’t lesbians, all right?  Get over it people.  They both had a crush on “Chuck”, and ONLY Chuck, never each other… and you can’t tell a person’s orientation simply because of how they wear pants.  Marcie didn’t even LIKE softball.  Good GRIEF! Don’t be such a hater.
TY THE GUY OUT!
Here now, your comic book moment of zen:
Share this: Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window) Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window) Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window) Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window) Like this: Like
Loading...
43 Comments
Posted in
Ty's Top
Tagged
Apollo ,
Batwoman ,
Doonesbury ,
For Better or for Worse ,
Gay Comics ,
Hopey ,
Hulkling ,
Lawrence Poirier ,
Love and Rockets ,
Maggie ,
Mark Waid ,
Midnighter ,
Peanuts ,
Stuck Rubber Baby ,
Toland Polk ,
Warren Ellis ,
Wiccan
THE SEVEN MOST MISGUIDED ATTEMPTS AT GAY CHARACTERS IN COMICS.
Posted on
September 1, 2010
|
36 comments
A recent spate of internet chatter involving something
Darwyn Cooke
said about making Batwoman gay got me thinking about homosexual comic characters in general.   Cooke was worried that
DC
was being exploitative of Batwoman’s lesbianism, rather than sensitive and intelligent about it –  something he’s concluded without reading the actual
Detective Comic
series, I’ll wager, or he’d know it’s being done quite well.  But I’ll give Darwyn the benefit of the doubt, as the pre-release Batwoman hype seemed more aimed at titillation than acceptance, and it’s not like comics haven’t had an appalling track record when creating gay characters.
You can just see the tolerance and acceptance in this image.
LGBT people were routinely played as odd, creepy or predatory in our biz, if they were even mentioned at all…check out Jim Shooter’s infamous Bruce-Banner-Nearly-Raped-in-the-Shower scene in the Rampaging Hulk to get a typical view of the subject from the Seventies.
And if they weren’t sinful weirdoes, they ended up dead from AIDS or being killed off-panel unceremoniously, because, well… no one will miss them.  Count how many X-Men have come out over the years, and now count up how many of them are dead.  The numbers don’t add up well.
Even when strong, positive gay characters showed up, there was still something “off” about ‘em.  Spider-Man’s cop friend Jean DeWolff was brusque and unpleasant (and has since been killed off). The Flash’s gay pal,
Pied Piper,
(written excellently by
Mark Waid ) was an evil Rogue named after
a character who lured young children away
from their parents by blowing on something.  (Flash Rogues with more problematic names if they’d popped out of the closet:
“the Top” ,
“the Rainbow Raider”
and
“the Golden Glider” .…)
It’s been a long road to get to where
Batwoman ,
Midnighter ,
Rene Montoya ,
Apollo ,
Anole ,
Obsidian , and
John Constantine
can be out and still be decent characters with more or less regular lives, and who are not portrayed as creepy, or bad or sinful.  Well, except for Constantine, but that’s how we like him.  Along that road, there have been bumps and mistakes — Attempts to be inclusive that ended up making LGBT folk seem odder to mainstream readers.  And of course,  wherever there is awful comics…I’ll be there to share them with you….
Here now–
THE SEVEN MOST MISGUIDED ATTEMPTS AT GAY CHARACTERS IN COMICS.
7)  Sebastian O
Created by writer
Grant Morrison
in 1993.  (Grant shows up again later in this list so keep an eye peeled).  I believe he’s the first gay character to have his own comic series from a mainstream American publisher ( Vertigo ), if you don’t count characters ret-conned into their GBLT status (such as
DC’s Shade the Changing Man/Woman ).
Sebastian O is set in a steampunk version of Victorian England, wherein Sebastian is more or less a revenge-killer version of
Oscar Wilde , only more gay…Oh sure, his mission is to hunt down and slay someone who got him tossed unjustly into prison (mostly for writing a “sinful” book), but it’s hard to be on O’s side when he’s friends with an admitted (and unrepentant) child molester, and when he murders innocent people, and feeds their bodies to his cat if it suits his needs.  There’s too much overt pederasty through the story for it to be helpful to anyone’s understanding of a gay lifestyle, and I’m not sure a homicidal Wilde is even the best place to start…
It IS a gun in my pocket, but I'm still glad to see you.
Here’s the strange part:  The series is actually readable, and Mr. O is easily the least annoying character on this list.
6)  Tasmanian Devil
Because there are no bears in Australia.
Taz was the first openly homosexual member of the Justice League, and it sure made him into a household name in the world of comics, didn’t it?  After coming out, the Devil was continuously played as a background character (rarely with even a single line of dialog), who shows up to be beaten senseless during REALLY BIG crossover events, and that’s about it.  You can find him buried in rubble on page eight in any book with the word CRISIS in the title.
After his second class status in the Justice League went nowhere, he was relegated to the astoundingly forgettable
GLOBAL GUARDIANS,
where he did nothing there either.  Eventually he’s killed and turned into a throw rug by Prometheus in the recent miniseries, JUSTICE LEAGUE: CRY FOR JUSTICE.
It’s not like Taz was ever a good character to begin with, but if they were going to make him gay, for god’s sake, don’t make him SO F***ING LAME!
5)  Monsieur Mallah and the Brain.
Ah...l'amour.
C'est fou!
A talking gorilla and a disembodied jar of goo, in love.
Dateline: Early Doom Patrol.  The Brain (when he was a regular mad scientist with a body) did some mad science-y experiments on a regular mountain gorilla until the ape became a simian genius with the power to speak French, and the desire to do evil.  Then the scientist lost his body in some sort of science-y accident and ended up a brain in a jar.  You’d think that would make this pair weird enough…
But during Grant Morrison’s 80s run of the
DOOM PATROL , the Brain was put into one of the spare robot bodies belonging to Doom Patrol member ROBOTMAN and the fun began.  As soon as he had arms and legs (and other body parts), Brain tells Mallah that he has been secretly in cross-species love with the furry beastie for years, but couldn’t confess it when he was just squishy lumps of tube stuff.   Mallah sends his bestial gay love right back at Brain, and they move in for the weirdest kiss in Western fiction… until … well, you’ll just have to read it to believe it…
…yup.  The Robotman body self destructs the moment the monkey plants a smacker on the android’s lips, as it simply can’t exist in a world that odd.  It sure brought home the idea that homosexuals are JUST like you and me.  A great leap forward for tolerance.
(NOTE:  The characters have since been revived and killed again, this time Mallah being beaten to death with Brain as the weapon.  They always die together, though…so it’s KINDA romantic.)
4) Freedom Ring:
Quick Quiz:
Whose costume is more macho?
Though at first glance, the character of
Curtis Doyle’s FREEDOM RING
(first appearing in
Robert Kirkman’s
“Master of the Ring” 5 part story arc in Marvel Team-Up a few years back) seemed like a decent character to make into a gay-positive super-hero.  He’s well adjusted, intelligent and casually “out” about his lifestyle, when he acquires a bit of the Cosmic Cube in the form of a ring, and is ready to save the world as essentially Marvel’s version of a Green Lantern.
But then this happens.
It could have gone well, except Curtis is killed dead,  penetrated by many phallic looking “things” (tendrils, spikes?), shooting out from a bad guy’s body (another subtle one there, guys) exactly one month to the day after he was being promoted as Marvel’s new Gay Superhero by Joe Quesada in interviews.  The story in which he was killed
had already been written and drawn when Quesada felt the need to do the media promotion
thing.  It’s hard to believe they weren’t aware of the F*CK YOU involved when they quickly impale Freedom Ring dead, in one of the worst bait-and-switch messages since
Bill Jemas’ MARVILLE
was described as “readable”.   Author Kirkman now claims he “didn’t mean it” to be so bluntly homophobic, it just sort of turned out that way…
3)  The Rawhide Kid
I hear guns can be metaphors for something.
Probably the worst dialog for any gay character in comics belongs to Rawhide Kid….perhaps for any straight character as well.
Ha ha!
It's funny, see?
The “Kid”
had been a Marvel Western mainstay since the late fifties, usually taking third place behind
Kid Colt: Outlaw , and the
Two-Gun Kid
in popularity.  But, in 2003, editor
Axel Alonzo
and writer
Ron Zimmerman
took this somewhat outdated Atlas era gunfighter and made him into a prancing joke, supposedly to introduce more gay-positive characters into the Marvel world.  For a book about straight shootin’, it’s ironic how MUCH THEY MISSED THEIR TARGET.
And if he gets bored, he's scratch your eyes out.
The mini-series “RAWHIDE KID:  SLAP LEATHER” (beautifully drawn by the legendary
John Severin ) is an aimless generic plot (about saving a rancher  from evil land developers or something) that has no reason for existence, beyond fruity double entendres and an obsession with keeping one’s leather gear looking fabulous. It’s as though Zimmerman’s entire knowledge of homosexuality came from a screening of
THE BIRDCAGE , and then he checked with
a Westboro Baptist minister
to ensure he was writing a script “faggy” enough to be absurdly hateful.
Guess what?  It was.
Hey folks.
Do you get it?
It's like it's a gun, or maybe it's a dick.
It's all too subtle for me.
2)  Northstar
What DIDN’T Marvel handle badly about this character’s history?  Let us count the ways…
1)
John Byrne
created him to be Marvel’s first openly homosexual character, but the editors refused to let Northstar’s orientation be discussed for more than ten years- until issue #106 of
ALPHA FLIGHT .
Northstar
had been gay since Alpha Flight #1.
The world of Canadian Superheroes gets all "real".
2)   A few years before he was officially “out”, he got a mysterious illness that was very AIDS-like, and he was only cured of it when…
3)  …It was revealed that he was actually a ….I swear to god….FAIRY. The kind with little fly wings, you know…like Tinkerbell?  Being part fairy gave him some sort of immunity in his blood or something, I don’t remember the details, only that I threw my copy across the room when I read it.
4)  Bless his heart, Northstar adopts a baby girl he finds in a dumpster, but the kid dies of AIDS before long.  AIDS and Fairies, folks, that’s what being gay in the Marvel Universe is all about.
5)   He’s never had a date, or a romantic moment in his entire publishing history so far as I know, and his orientation barely comes up in his own mini-series.  For Marvel’s first “gay” character, he’s sure not very gay.  But at least he’s currently alive (though Wolverine DID kill him once).  That’s fairly rare for olde-tyme homosexuals in the funny books…
Don't forget,
he's a professional skier, so he goes "swish" whenever he goes down.
and finally…
1)  Extraño
Like a fine wine, this drawing only gets better with age.
Created by
Steve Englehart
and
Joe Staton
in the
DC MILLENIUM
mini-series of the late 80s, and later spun-off into
THE NEW GUARDIANS
super-hero team with fellow token character
“Pieface” , the Inuit mechanic from Silver Age Green Lantern comics…(clearly the Spirit’s
EBONY WHITE
was busy.)
Extraño is the Spanish word for “strange” or “queer”, so you know you’re in for thoughtful writing from the get-go.  This caricature of a flaming queen was the first openly gay super-hero in DC history (and I think in comics generally), and boy-howdy was he a sensitive portrayal.  First there’s his whole “look”: a billowy purple cape, bling that would embarrass Flavor Flav, thigh-high leather pirate boots (rolled down), and a goofy mustache that would someday inspire Prince.  Oh, and he’s  constantly referring to himself as “Auntie”.  I think the editors were going for gay-positive but they clearly had no idea what that was.   I guess they figured a flamboyant, hair-obsessed Hispanic with magic powers would simply write itself.   He was kind of a Dr. Strange character that could levitate and do mystical shit, but that was never what he was about.  It was the gayness.  The gay clothes, the gay attitude, the ASTOUNDINGLY large blow-dried ‘do… Aaaand, of course, because he was, you know…GAY…, he’s trying to kill himself when we first meet him (stopped by the Flash) aaaand he eventually had to contract AIDS, which he got from a possibly-gay vampire called
Hemo-Goblin .  Though after he got himself the AIDS, he never seemed to ever suffer from it in any way…and kind of forgot he had it.
I guess the suicide attempt was Englehart’s attempt at insight, but it came off as a patronizing cliché, even in the 80s.
This is the least flamboyant image I could find of this guy.
BONUS POINTS:  Since Extraño wasn’t just an collection of homosexual stereotypes, but also Hispanic stereotypes, they managed to knock down two minorities in one go.
Of course, readers got tired of this crap, and DC recently killed him in a big explosion that dropped most of a house on his ass.
COMING SOON:
The Seven BEST Gay characters in Comics…because the glass is finally half full.
Ty the Guy OUT!
Here now, your comic book moment of zen:
Share this: Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window) Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window) Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window) Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window) Like this: Like
Loading...
36 Comments
Posted in
Ty's Top
Tagged
alpha flight ,
Axel Alonzo ,
Batwoman ,
Darwyn Cooke ,
Extraño ,
Freedom Ring ,
Gay ,
Gay Comics ,
gay-positive ,
Grant Morrison ,
Jim Shooter ,
Joe Staton ,
John Byrne ,
Kirkman ,
Lesbian ,
LGBT ,
Monsieur Mallah ,
Northstar ,
Pied Piper ,
Rawhide Kid ,
Ron Zimmerman ,
Sebastian O ,
Steve Englehart ,
Tasmanian Devil ,
the Brain ,
The New Guardians
Follow me on Twitter!
Subscribe:
Enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Join 330 other followers
Ty Templeton’s ART LAND!   RSS - Posts
Categories Categories
Select Category
00 Stig's Inferno
American Splendor
Appearances
April 1
art for sale
Art Spiegelman
Awards
Batman
Big Max
Bigg Time
Bootcamp Comics
Breaking into Comics
Bun Toon
bun toons
Bunny Funnies
Canadian Superheroes
charity
Christmas
Christmas Bunny
Comic Book Art
Comic Book Bootcamp
Comic Book Creators
Comic Book Moment of Zen
Comics
Comics in other forms
Comics that Matter
Commissions
Con Sketches
Contests
Convention Stories
Conventions
Corrections
countdown
Credits
Dark Claw Adventures
DC Comic’s Shoptalk
DC Comics
Dead Celebrity Jokes
Dexter: The Early Cuts
Easter
eBay listings for Ty Templeton
Elongated Man
Elseworlds Special
Eulogy
Fit to Print
Flashbacks
Follow-Up
Four Panels
Free Comic Book Day
GLXmas Special
Hallowe’en
Halloween
Halloween ComicFest
Harvey Pekar
Hero Initiative
Heroes of the North
Holmes Inc
Hoverboy Fridays
Interviews
Introduction
It Gets Better
JLA
Joe Shuster Awards
Justice League
Justice League Unlimited Covers
Koffler Centre of the Arts
Last Round-Up
Last Week in Art Land
Last Week on the ‘net
LGBTQ
Links
Mad Dog
Mad Magazine
Marvel Comics
Maus
Mike Parobeck
Moonstone Books
Mouse Rat
Movie Review
Mr. Comics
music
Nepotism Thursdays
NEW COMIC WEEKEND
New Comics Day
New Pages
New Work
Northern Guard
On Television
On the 'Net
On the Couch
Parks and Recreation
Planet of the Apes
Powdered Toast Man Special
Released this week
RePost
Reviews
Saturday Morning Cartoons
Scandals
Secret Origins
Spider-Man
Spider-Man/Human Torch
Star Trek
Stig's Inferno
Superfriends
Superman
Templetoons
The Comic Book Lounge & Gallery
The Crimson Arrow
The Joe Shuster Awards
The New Wave
The Simpsons
top five
Toronto Cartoonists Workshop
Toronto Cartoonists Workshops
Tributes
Trouble
True Life Tales
Tumblr
Twitter
Ty Templeton
Ty Templeton’s Comic Book Bootcamp
Ty Toons
Ty's Top
Ty’s Lists
Uncategorized
Unseen artwork
Videos
What the %@&*!
WildC.A.T.S. Adventures
Wonder Woman
Workshops
X-Men
Archives
Archives
Select Month
October 2015
September 2015
August 2015
July 2015
June 2015
May 2015
April 2015
March 2015
February 2015
January 2015
December 2014
November 2014
October 2014
September 2014
August 2014
July 2014
June 2014
May 2014
April 2014
March 2014
February 2014
January 2014
December 2013
November 2013
October 2013
September 2013
August 2013
July 2013
June 2013
May 2013
April 2013
March 2013
February 2013
January 2013
December 2012
November 2012
October 2012
September 2012
August 2012
July 2012
June 2012
May 2012
April 2012
March 2012
February 2012
January 2012
December 2011
November 2011
October 2011
September 2011
August 2011
July 2011
June 2011
May 2011
April 2011
March 2011
February 2011
January 2011
December 2010
November 2010
October 2010
September 2010
August 2010
July 2010
June 2010
May 2010
April 2010
March 2010
February 2010
January 2010
December 2009
November 2009
October 2009
September 2009
Create a free website or blog at WordPress.com .
The Coraline Theme .
Ty Templeton's ART LAND!!
Blog at WordPress.com .
The Coraline Theme .
Follow
Follow “Ty Templeton's ART LAND!!”
Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.
Join 330 other followers
Build a website with WordPress.com
Send to Email Address
Your Name
Your Email Address
Cancel
Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
%d
bloggers like this:
Add your thoughts here... (optional)
Post to
Cancel