My Pantone 14-0848 Summer | Graphic Content
Graphic Content
words+images of a graphic artist in modern times
Home Images Background
RSS
←
The Queens’ “Bee”
Corel X5 Dreaming
→
My Pantone 14-0848 Summer
24
Mar
During this time of the year, the majority of mango trees in the nearby provinces turn yellow and the branches are much more closer to the ground. Almost to the point of touching the ground and breaking in two. Summer has begun. And thy color is Pantone 14-0848.
In a few days, mango trees in nearly all of the Philippines will be yellow with ripe mangos hanging from branches straining to keep itself from breaking. And people will be saturated with the scent and the taste of it. I should know this: My father has a mango orchard and they’re busy harvesting the mangos for days. The picture above shows a sample of this year’s harvest
(and there’s several boxes more coming soon) .
In these times of financial crises and economic instabilities, people always feel that they need a vacation. Luckily for those still in school, most of them will eventually get their wish
(summer school notwithstanding) . For the rest of us, however, we can only wish. Which is why we try to make the best of the situation and find the good things in simple living
(which is what most of us can afford in these times, anyway).
Pantone may have foreseen this (probably from reading the financial news) when they chose
Pantone 14-0848 Mimosa as their Color of the Year for 2009 . As Leatrice Eiseman, executive director of the Pantone Color Institute®,  said in a press statement:
“In a time of economic uncertainty and political change, optimism is paramount and no other color expresses hope and reassurance more than yellow. The color yellow exemplifies the warmth and nurturing quality of the sun, properties we as humans are naturally drawn to for reassurance. Mimosa also speaks to enlightenment, as it is a hue that sparks imagination and innovation.”
I guess that even though life has been one tough day at work, it’s always reassuring that there’s always a summer vacation waiting. It’s only a matter of how you want to have yours. If life hands you a bunch unripe mangos, slice ’em up and break out the  bagoong
(salty shrimp paste)  and have a great summer snack. I don’t know about you but mine involves a cool mango smoothie with ripe mango bits and a tall glass. Or probably a tall glass of… Mimosa , perhaps?
Share this: Reddit Like this: Like
Loading...
Related
Leave a comment
Posted by
sonnyleon
on 03/24/2009 in
design ,
news ,
thoughts
←
The Queens’ “Bee”
Corel X5 Dreaming
→
Leave a Reply
Cancel reply
Enter your comment here...
Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:
Email
(required)
(Address never made public)
Name
(required)
Website
You are commenting using your WordPress.com account.
(  Log Out  /  Change  )
You are commenting using your Twitter account.
(  Log Out  /  Change  )
You are commenting using your Facebook account.
(  Log Out  /  Change  )
You are commenting using your Google+ account.
(  Log Out  /  Change  )
Cancel
Connecting to %s
Notify me of new comments via email.
March 2009
S
M
T
W
T
F
S
Apr »
1 2 3 4 5 6 7
8 9 10 11 12 13 14
15 16 17 18 19 20 21
22 23 24 25 26 27 28
29 30 31
Create a free website or blog at WordPress.com .
The Choco Theme .
Entries (RSS)
and
Comments (RSS)
Follow
Follow “Graphic Content”
Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.
Build a website with WordPress.com
%d
bloggers like this: