Lisalugemist - kärbsepüünis (ingl.k Wikipedia)
Putuktoidulised taimed
Sissejuhatus
Kanntaim
Kärbsepüünis
Näpitslill
Küsimused kordamiseks
Lisalugemist - kärbsepüünis (ingl.k Wikipedia)
Lisalugemist - näpitslill (saksa k. Wikipedia)
Lisalugemist - kärbsepüünis (ingl.k Wikipedia)
Venus Flytrap
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
(Redirected from
Dionaea )
For other uses, see
Venus Flytrap (disambiguation) .
Venus Flytrap
Venus Flytrap leaf
Conservation status
Vulnerable
( IUCN )
[1]
Scientific classification
Kingdom:
Plantae
Division:
Magnoliophyta
Class:
Magnoliopsida
Order:
Caryophyllales
Family:
Droseraceae
Genus:
Dionaea
Species:
D. muscipula
Binomial name
Dionaea muscipula
Sol.
ex
Ellis
(1768)
Venus Flytrap distribution
Synonyms
Dionaea corymbosa
(Raf.) Steud. (1840)
Dionaea crinita
Sol. (1990)
nom.superfl.
Dionaea dentata
D'Amato (1998)
nom.nud.
Dionaea heterodoxa
D'Amato (1998)
nom.nud.
Dionaea muscicapa
St.Hil. (1824)
sphalm.typogr.
Dionaea sensitiva
Salisb. (1796)
Dionaea sessiliflora
( auct. non
G.Don: Raf.) Steud. (1840)
Dionaea uniflora
( auct. non
Willd.: Raf.) Steud. (1840)
Drosera corymbosa
Raf. (1833)
Drosera sessiliflora
auct. non
G.Don: Raf. (1833)
Drosera uniflora
auct. non
Willd.: Raf. (1833)
The
Venus Flytrap
( Dionaea muscipula ) is a
carnivorous plant
that catches and digests animal prey (mostly
insects
and
arachnids ). The trapping structure is formed by the terminal portion of each of the plant's leaves. The plant's name refers to
Venus , the Roman goddess of love.
Contents
1
Description
2
Mechanism of trapping
3
Habitat
4
Cultivation
5
Cultivars
6
Popular culture
7
References
8
External links
Description
Illustration of the Venus Flytrap from
Curtis's Botanical Magazine .
The Venus Flytrap is a small
herb , forming a rosette of four to seven leaves, which arise from a short subterranean stem that is actually a bulb-like
rhizome . Each leaf reaches a maximum size of about three to seven centimeters, depending on the time of year; [2]
longer leaves with robust traps are generally formed after flowering. Flytraps that appear to have more leaves are generally
colonies , formed by rosettes that have divided beneath the ground.
The leaf blade is divided into two regions: a flat, heart shaped photosynthetic capable
petiole , and a pair of terminal lobes hinged at the midrib, forming the trap which is actually the true leaf. The upper surface of these lobes contains red
anthocyanin
pigments and its edges secrete
mucilage . The lobes exhibit
rapid plant movements , snapping shut when stimulated by prey. The trapping mechanism is tripped when prey items stumble against one of the three hair-like
trichomes
that are found on the upper surface of each of the lobes. The trapping mechanism is so specialized that it can distinguish between living prey and non-prey stimuli such as falling raindrops; [3]
two trigger hairs must be touched in succession or one hair touched twice, [3]
whereupon the lobes of the trap will snap shut in about 0.1 seconds. The edges of the lobes are fringed by stiff hair-like protrusions or cilia, which mesh together and prevent large prey items from escaping. (These protrusions, and the trigger hairs, are probably
homologous
with the tentacles found in this plant’s close relatives, the
sundews .) The holes in the meshwork allow small prey to escape, presumably because the benefit that would be obtained from them would be less than the cost of digesting them. If the prey is too small and escapes, the trap will reopen within 12 hours. If the prey moves around in the trap, it tightens and digestion begins more quickly.
Speed of closing can vary depending on the amount of humidity, light, size of prey, and general growing conditions. The speed with which traps close can be used as an indicator of a plant's general health. Venus Flytraps are not as humidity dependent as are some other carnivorous plants, such as
Nepenthes ,
Cephalotus , most
Heliamphora , and some
Drosera .
Mechanism of trapping
Closeup of one of the hinged trigger hairs.
The Venus Flytrap is one of a very small group of plants that are capable of
rapid movement , such as
Mimosa , the
Telegraph plant ,
sundews
and
bladderworts .
The mechanism by which the trap snaps shut involves a complex interaction between
elasticity ,
turgor
and growth. In the open, untripped state, the lobes are
convex
(bent outwards), but in the closed state, the lobes are
concave
(forming a cavity). It is the rapid flipping of this
bistable
state that closes the trap, [4]
but the mechanism by which this occurs is still poorly understood. When the trigger hairs are stimulated, an
action potential
(mostly involving calcium ions — see
calcium in biology ) is generated, which propagates across the lobes and stimulates cells in the lobes and in the
midrib
between them. [5]
Exactly what this stimulation does is still debated: cells in the outer layers of the lobes and midrib may rapidly secrete
protons
into their cell walls, loosening them and allowing them to swell rapidly by
osmosis
and
acid growth ; alternatively, cells in the inner layers of the lobes and midrib may rapidly secrete other
ions , allowing water to follow by osmosis, and the cells to collapse. Both, either or neither of these mechanisms may play a role. [6]
If the prey is unable to escape, it will continue to stimulate the inner surface of the lobes, and this causes a further growth response that forces the edges of the lobes together, eventually sealing the trap hermetically and forming a 'stomach' in which
digestion
occurs. Digestion is
catalysed
by
enzymes
secreted by glands in the lobes. Digestion takes about ten days, after which the prey is reduced to a husk of
chitin . The trap then reopens, and is ready for reuse, even though the trap rarely catches more than three insects in its lifetime. [ citation needed ]
Habitat
The Venus Flytrap is found in
nitrogen -poor environments, such as
bogs . Although it has been successfully transplanted and grown in many locales around the world, it is found natively only in North and South Carolina in the United States. There also appears to be a naturalized stand of Venus Flytraps in northern Florida. It may have been introduced to that area by birds dropping the seeds in their feces as the area is on a bird flyway from North and South Carolina. One such place is North Carolina's
Green Swamp . The nutritional poverty of the soil is the reason that the plant relies on such elaborate traps: insect prey provide the nitrogen for
protein
formation that the soil cannot. The Venus Flytrap is not a tropical plant and can tolerate mild winters. In fact, Venus Flytraps that do not go through a period of winter dormancy will weaken and die after a period of time.
Cultivation
This article or section contains
instructions, advice, or how-to content .
The purpose of Wikipedia is to present facts, not to teach subject matter.
Please help
improve this article
by removing or rewriting the how-to content, which may qualify for a
move
to
Wikibooks .
Venus Flytraps are very popular as cultivated plants, although they have a large reputation for being difficult to grow. This reputation is almost exclusively due to inappropriate treatment of the plants by retailers and their consequent ill-health on purchase. However, Venus Flytraps are safely grown in pots under conditions that mimic those in their natural habitat.
Time-lapse photography of a growing trap.
Venus flytraps can be kept in pots on a patio, deck or position in the garden that receives at least 6-8 hours of sunlight per day. [7]
In areas of lower humidity, the plant can survive with frequent watering and a drainage system to prevent fungal growth. It is also beneficial to keep it in a tray with about an inch of water to maintain higher humidity levels. Stagnant water is dangerous for the plant, so using pebbles to elevate the plant from the water is safer for the plant. Venus flytraps grow better still in a greenhouse which often leads to healthy, vigorous and colourful plants. The colour of the trap leaves may be used as an indicator of sufficient light; in appropriate conditions the inside of each trap should be bright red in color for most varieties. Insufficient light leads to the inside of the trap turning light green. Low light also causes
etiolation
and makes plants more susceptible to diseases.
Venus flytraps are best grown in mixtures of
sphagnum
peat moss and/or
peat
often with the addition of sand, perlite or other inert salt free material. Soil
pH
should be in the range of 3.9 to 4.8.
The 'Dentate' cultivar of the venus fly trap in cultivation
Venus Flytraps ideally should not be watered with tap water as accumulated salts in tap water may kill carnivorous plants. Soft water with
TDS
of 100 ppm or less yields good growth, both
distilled
water or clean rain water are ideal. The soil should be kept constantly moist by placing the pot in a tray full of water, with the root bulb of the plant allowed to be above the level of the water at least part of the time, to prevent root rot in stagnant water. There is no danger of over-watering. Venus flytraps can survive short periods of immersion underwater. [7]
Some
horticulturists
have experimented with giving small amounts of
fertiliser
to Venus flytraps, usually applying diluted solutions of products formulated for
epiphytes , using cotton swabs, to the plant's foliage. Another method of fertiliser application is a spray bottle or pump. Beginners, however, and those without expendable plants, would be wise to avoid fertiliser in favor of insects.
Healthy venus flytraps produce flowers in the spring
Venus flytraps are entirely capable of catching their own food; thus, feeding them manually is not necessary. If for some reason a grower wishes to feed a flytrap, live insects no larger than 1/3 of the size of the trap may be used, as larger insects tend to have a detrimental effect on the plant as they often drastically shorten the individual trap's life and/or cause it to die.
Algal
growth near the plant is an indicator of overfeeding, as is an abundance of dead, black traps.
Healthy Venus flytraps will produce scapes of white flowers in
spring , however, many growers remove the flowering stem early, as flowering consumes some of the plant's energy, and reduces the rate of trap production. If allowed to flower, successful pollination will result in the production of dozens of small, shiny black seeds.
Venus flytraps have a necessary winter dormancy period, triggered by nighttime temperatures below 10 ° C
(50 ° F ) and reduced day length. [7]
In climates with mild winters they can be kept outside to overwinter ( hardiness zone
9 or greater). The soil should be kept slightly moist and the area well ventilated to prevent the growth of
grey mold . Those who live in areas with extremely cold winters ( hardiness zone
8 or less) might consider placing plants in a plastic bag in the refrigerator for two to three months, starting in Autumn, although they can survive freeze-over for brief periods of time. [7]
Plants can be propagated by seed, although seedlings will take several years to mature. More commonly, they may be propagated by division in spring or summer.
Cultivars
Typical variety of the Venus Flytrap.
Dionaea muscipula
'Akai Ryu', Japanese for 'Red Dragon', in cultivation.
Venus Flytraps are, by far, the most commonly recognized and cultivated carnivorous plant. They are sold as houseplants and are often found at florists, hardware stores and supermarkets. Although the genus is
monotypic , during the past ten years or so, large quantities of cultivars have come into the market through
tissue culture
of select genetic mutations. It is through tissue culture that great quantities of plants are raised for commercial markets.
Some of the registered
cultivars
(cultivated varieties) include (name of originator in brackets):
Dionaea muscipula
'Akai Ryu' {R.Gagliardo}
Dionaea muscipula
'Big Mouth' {T.Camilleri}
Dionaea muscipula
'Bohemian Garnet'
{M.Srba}
Dionaea muscipula
'Clayton's Red Sunset' {C.Clayton}
Dionaea muscipula
'Clumping Cultivar' {D'Amato}
Dionaea muscipula
'Dentate' {D'Amato}
Dionaea muscipula
'Dentate Traps' {B.Meyers-Rice}
Dionaea muscipula
'Dente' {D'Amato}
Dionaea muscipula
'Fused Tooth' {D'Amato}
Dionaea muscipula
'Jaws' {L.Song}
Dionaea muscipula
'Kinchyaku' {K.Kondo}
Dionaea muscipula
'Red Piranha' {E.Read}
Dionaea muscipula
'Red Rosetted' {D'Amato}
Dionaea muscipula
'Royal Red' {AUPBR 464}
Dionaea muscipula
'Sawtooth' {B.Meyers-Rice}
An unofficial list includes many more names, with more added annually. None of these "variation names" are officially recognized unless the name is properly documented, registered and accepted by the only official CP name registrant, the
International Carnivorous Plant Society .
Popular culture
See also:
Venus Trap
Invenusable Flytrap, a villain on
Mighty Morphin Power Rangers
Venus Flytrap-like plants are common in fictional works, usually in a much larger (and sometimes
sentient ) form capable of digesting a human being. Probably the most famous is Audrey II in
Little Shop of Horrors , a plant that needs to eat people to live (the
off-Broadway
play was based on a low-budget
black comedy ,
The Little Shop of Horrors , in which the plant was named Audrey 2).
The Addams Family
had a large, monstrous Venus Flytrap named Cleopatra, which Morticia took care of. Other fictional outings include the Philippine comic
Darna , where the villain Flaviana turns Venus Flytraps into monsters as a defense. A one-time villain on
Mighty Morphin Power Rangers
was the Invenusable Flytrap, a humanoid plant creature. There was also a character named
Venus Flytrap
on the television sitcom
WKRP in Cincinnati .
Cartoons frequently make use of monstrous plants; examples include, but certainly are not limited to
Inspector Gadget , the alien hero
Wildvine
from the
Cartoon Network
original series
Ben 10 ,
Darkwing Duck ,
The Simpsons
and
Zetsu , a villain character in the
manga
series,
Naruto . Video games such as
Super Mario Bros.
use similar creatures called
piranha plants
as enemies and
Rampage: Total Destruction
has a venus fly trap-like plant named Venus. Another video game, called
Venus The Flytrap , involves a robotic fly which tries to destroy other robotic insects. [8]
The
Infocom
text adventure
game
Leather Goddesses of Phobos
features a giant (mobile) flytrap which attempts to eat the player's character.
The Sims 2: University
features an unlockable object, the Cow Plant, which will lure non-player characters with a cake lure and eat them if not fed regularly. The
Gravemind
in
Halo 2
resembles a large venus flytrap. The Deku Babas, Twilit Babas and Boko Babas in
The Legend of Zelda
all resemble venus flytraps. In
Pokemon Diamond and Pearl ,
Carnivine 's design is based on the Venus Flytrap; its
Japanese
name,
Muskippa , is based on the scientific name
muscipula .
30 Seconds to Mars ' second album,
A Beautiful Lie , includes a single called
The Kill . The single's album art has a Venus flytrap in the front.
References
^
Schnell, D., Catling, P., Folkerts, G., Frost, C., Gardner, R.,
et al.
(2000).
Dionaea muscipula .
2006
IUCN Red List of Threatened Species .
IUCN
2006. Retrieved on 11 May 2006. Listed as Vulnerable (VU A1acd, B1+2c v2.3)
^
Venus Flytraps .
The Carnivorous Plant FAQ . Retrieved on
2005 - 06-13 .
^
a
b
Raven, Evert and Eichhorn, "Biology of Plants" (7th edition) , W.H. Freeman and Company, 2005
^
Forterre Y, Skotheim JM, Dumais J, Mahadevan L (2005). " How the Venus Flytrap snaps ".
Nature
433
(7024): 421-5.
doi : 10.1038/nature03185 .
^
Hodick D, Sievers A (1989). " The action potential of
Dionaea muscipula
Ellis ".
Planta
174 : 8-18.
doi : 10.1007/BF00394867 .
^
Hodick D, Sievers, A (1988). " On the mechanism of closure of Venus Flytrap ( Dionaea muscipula
Ellis) ".
Planta
179 : 32-42.
doi : 10.1007/BF00395768 .
^
a
b
c
d
http://www.cobraplant.com/venus-flytrap.html
^
MobyGames page for Venus the Flytrap
External links
Images and movies of the Venus Flytrap
(Dionaea muscipula)
at ARKive
How to grow a Venus flytrap
The Carnivorous Plant FAQ
The Mysterious Venus Flytrap
Discovery explains how the Venus Flytrap snaps.
How Venus Flytraps Work
Venus Flytrap evolution
[ dead link
–
history ]
Carolina Beach State Park, "Fly trap Trail"
Botanical Society of America,
Dionaea muscipula
- The Venus Flytrap
Save The Venus Flytrap
v
•
d
•
e
Carnivorous plant
genera
Aldrovanda
•
Brocchinia
•
Byblis
•
Catopsis
•
Cephalotus
•
Darlingtonia
•
Dionaea
•
Drosera
•
Drosophyllum
•
Genlisea
•
Heliamphora
•
Nepenthes
•
Pinguicula
•
Roridula
•
Sarracenia
•
Triphyophyllum
•
Utricularia
Protocarnivorous :
Capsella
•
Dipsacus
•
Geranium
•
Ibicella
•
Paepalanthus
•
Passiflora
•
Plumbago
•
Potentilla
•
Stylidium
Extinct :
Archaeamphora
•
Droserapollis
•
Droserapites
•
Droseridites
•
Fischeripollis
•
Palaeoaldrovanda
•
Saxonipollis
See also:
List of carnivorous plants
Retrieved from " http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Venus_Flytrap "
See artikkel on litsentseeritud GNU Free Documentation License . See kasutab materjale artikkel"dionaea" .
« Eelmine
|
Järgmine »