National Margarita Day at Abuelo's Mexican Restaurant | Examiner.com
Skip to main content
Report this ad
In Leisure:
Food & Drink Travel Spa & Beauty Autos & Motorcycles Bars & Clubs
Facebook Twitter Google Plus Search
Leisure
Bars & Clubs
Happy Hour
See also:
Happy Hour
National Margarita Day
National Margarita Day at Abuelo's Mexican Restaurant
Use your
key for the next article Next:
Carrabba's Italian Grill 5 for $5 happy hour (Photos)
February 22, 2011
7:07 PM MST
Facebook
Twitter
Pinterest
Linkedin
Google Plus
Comment
National Margarita Day at Abuelo's Vance Eaglin
Abuelo's Mexican Restaurant
at Happy Hour
Rating: Star 5 Star Star Star Star
Buenos Dias readers!
It's
National Margarita Day
and it's our mission to go and get a good
Margarita.
Out of dozens of locations to choose from,
Abuelo's Mexican Food
will be our stop.
Outside, the building is rather large and impressive.
Even before you get inside the door, you get a majestic feeling because the building is majestic and beautiful.
Plenty of signage out front hyping up the
Happy Hour
at
Abuelo's
and
Happy Hour
is what we're about.
They run an outstanding Sunday thru Friday from 3 to 7pm and again from 9pm until.
Going into
Abuelo's
gives the same impression of going into one of the more prominent restaurants in one of the casinos in Las Vegas.
Life sized statues are in the middle of the main floor and some very impressive indoor plant work.
The servers are buttoned up with outfits that say strictly business.
The upscale feel is ever present in the manner and attitudes of the staff.
At the bar, there were only a couple of monitors and either was tuned in to a sports highlights channel.
Remember, the sports are important.
But Wow what a posh place and immaculate atmosphere.
The drink specials are beer well, and wine half off.
Specialty drinks were something like $2 dollars off.
Abuelo's
has a variety of
Margarita
flavors on the rocks or shaved ice.
Mango was the flavor of choice.
The bartender promptly brought one over.
Very nice presentation with the finer salt and lime wedge.
The
Mojito
and the
Margarita
seem to be the two main signature drinks.
The bartender had no idea that today is
National Margarita Day.
She was very surprised to learn that in fact it was
National Margarita Day .
It even has a nice ring to it.
The prices on all
Margarita's
is half off during
Happy Hour
and surprise, surprise.
The
Margarita
the bartender served me was absolutely the best, and I mean the best
Margarita
I have ever had.
Holy Wow.
Made my Margarita Day great.Talk about some real
happy
and the appetizer menu has items priced from $1.50 up to $6 dollars and the selection great.
More
happy
which is the cusp of our search.
So
Abuelo's
gets a 9 on the happy meter.
A ten if the bartender would have known that today is
National Margarita Day.
In fact I called around to random bars and restaurants just to ask if they knew what today was.
Out of 8 calls made, not one knew.
Not only did they not know that today is
National Margarita Day , they had no idea that there was even such a thing as
National Margarita Day .
There was plenty of
happy
and a lot of Wow and the best
Margarita
around this
Happy Hour
part of town.
This
Abuelo's
is located in Peoria, Az.
There are locations in something like 16 other states.
So enjoy your
Abuelo's
if there is one nearby you and have a
Margarita .
Happy National Margarita Day
readers, see you at the next stop.
Report this content
Share
this article
Facebook
Twitter
Pinterest
Linkedin
Google Plus
Comment
Comments
Vance Eaglin Tempe Happy Hour Examiner 15 plus years in the restaurant industry and happily still in the business.
I have learned to be patient with people and with the things that are important in one's life.
I understand there are vast and extreme differences in how each man, woman, and child see and approach life.
Only through Examining ourselves at face value can we learn to approach life I believe, with a positive self perception.
I love to read and write and I approach life in that way.
Contact me
Featured
Video
Related
stories
Carrabba's Italian Grill 5 for $5 happy hour (Photos)
New Bonefish menu raises the bar on bar menus
Happy Hour at Dave's On Broadway
McCormick & Schmick's happy hour named best in the nation (Photos)
Barefoot Bubbly: Pink Moscato wine review
Leisure
highlights
Review : Smartphone Wallet from Harley-Davidson is perfect for rides around town Harley-Davidson has got some great new items in store for the 2015 holiday season and their Smartphone Leather Wallet for the ladies makes a perfect gift or stocking stuffer. It is made of lambskin...
Camera
Six best beauty looks from Black-ish star Tracee Ellis Ross Black actresses are definitely having a moment when it comes to drawing in audiences for TV shows. From Kerry Washington in “Scandal” to Viola Davis in “How to Get Away with Murder”, shows starring...
Next
Article
Carrabba's Italian Grill 5 for $5 happy hour (Photos)
Report this ad
POPULAR
in BARS & CLUBS
Visine bar prank: The dangerous truth about putting eye drops in a drink
Blushing Brides, a tribute to the Rolling Stones
Joliet and suburban Halloween parties and events
Top Ten Pizza Joints in the Clearwater Area
The top 5 places to meet singles in San Diego
Trick and Treat: Adult Halloween Parties in Kansas City
Casey McQuillen, you matter
Scientist warn organic and natural cosmetics and skin care products are no good
Introducing..My Crazy Girlfriend
The benefits of live music
TRENDING
on EXAMINER.COM
Final Jeopardy answer costs contestant $6000 as she unwittingly insults liberals
Skeletal dog fights for her life in Phoenix
Heartbroken dog begs his owner not to abandon him at shelter
Three pit bulls rescued from Florida storm drain
D'Arcee Neal: Severely disabled man on plane crawls down aisle
Undercover sting results in arrest of man who wanted to have sex with animals
Saudi prince drug smuggling on private plane: Will Saudi prince be beheaded?
Megalodon teeth from mouth of 60-ft shark: Jaw-dropping find on N.C. shore
Florida hunter blows life away of nearly blind, old 'Grandfather Bear'
Woman horrified as she finds boyfriend having sex with her dog in her bed
Report this ad
Report this ad
Facebook
Twitter
Linkedin
Google+
Pinterest
Company Links
About us
OnTopic custom content
The Rowdy
Advertise with us
Sitemap
Examiner.com Entertainment
| AXS Network | © 2006-2015 AXS Digital Group LLC d/b/a
Examiner.com |
Privacy Policy
|
Terms of Use
|
About us
Choose a Topic
Arts & Entertainment Arts & Entertainment Music Movies TV Arts & Exhibits Performing Arts Reality TV Celebrity Pop Culture Animation Young Adult Fiction Books Movie Reviews Comic Books AXS Entertainment AXS Entertainment Music Movies TV Arts & Exhibits Performing Arts NFL NHL MLB NBA Fight Sports Soccer Recreational Sports Reality TV Music Festivals News News Top News International News Strange News Science & Space Politics Elections Environment Extreme Weather Government Crime & Courts Business & Finance Same-Sex Marriage Small Business Stock Market Gun Control Global Warming Personal Finance Democrat Republican Political Buzz Marketing and PR Immigration Life Life Home & Living Pets Style & Fashion Family & Parenting Health & Fitness Education Religion & Spirituality Weight Loss & Dieting Weddings Gardening Home Improvement Relationships Green Living Nutrition Neighborhoods Careers & Workplace Sales & Deals Healthcare Jobs Hobbies Leisure Leisure Food & Drink Travel Spa & Beauty Autos & Motorcycles Bars & Clubs Recipes Drinks Budget Travel DIY Mechanic Auto Reviews Natural Beauty Luxury Travel Makeup Hair & Nails Sports Sports MLB NFL NBA NHL Soccer Fight Sports Recreational Sports College Sports General Sports Fantasy Sports Motorsports Hunting & Fishing Hiking Camping Running Equestrian Water Sports Action Sports Endurance Sports Recreation Tech Tech Gadgets & Tech Video Games Internet Tech Gear Tablets iPhone Google Glass Wearable Tech Xbox One Playstation 4 Photography MMOGs Handheld Games Facebook Anonymous Social Media Consoles Bitcoin Google Twitter Video Log In / Register Write for Us
Search