The Best Margarita Recipe Ever!?
| The Libra Chronicles
Main menu
Skip to content
Pickup RAW Coaching and Bootcamps Sidecar Explained The King of Cats The Seduction Chronicles – A Collection What Is All This Insolence!?
The Libra Chronicles
I'm just waiting on that train, because the Fast Ones always ride for free…
RSS
The Best Margarita Recipe Ever!?
Posted by
Ronnie Libra
on
May 12, 2012
Margarita cocktail (Photo credit: Wikipedia)
(There is a song in my head that I cannot think of the Artist of at the moment since it’s in Mexican.  I REFUSE to put any Jimmy Buffet garbage on my blog.  SOOooo  No song of the day.  Once I remember the song I am trying to think of or find a suitable substitute I will replace my ranting.)
;)
(Edit Note – Jan 2014:  The ORIGINAL Article that had comments in the Hundreds over at Hodges Lab website is gone.  I think that blog has gone under after many years so this actually has become a preservation of sorts by a recipe that hundreds of commenters in that post SWORE by!)
Ya ya ya, am I late?  We just missed Cinco de Mayo.  However, it’s getting warmer out and soon lots and lots of people will be drinking margaritas regardless of what day it is.  So allow me to be of service…
I had to add the question marks.  Saying a drink recipe is the BEST is relative.  It’s like people that love red wine saying they don’t like
Merlot .
For the record it’s IMPOSSIBLE to not like Merlot because I doubt seriously that ANYONE on this fine planet has had the opportunity to try every flavor profile of Merlot out there.  There are so many different profiles created by Merlot grapes that you can put two Merlots next to each other and they could be COMPLETELY different.  Why do people say they don’t like Merlot?  Because of a stupid Line in a Stupid Wine Movie.
Actually, the reason to why Miles wont drink Merlot is, that in the book “ Sideways ” by
Rex Pickett , the wine he’s saving for his ex-wife’s return is a 1961 Pétrus (…An estate of limited size, it produces a limited production red  wine  almost entirely from  Merlot   grapes ,…)  and NOT a 1961 Cheval Blanc. But Pétrus (which is 100% Merlot) didn’t give permission to use their label and the director therefore changed the manuscript into a Cheval Blanc.
Miles doesn’t want to be reminded of his wife when spending an evening with Maya – a new girl he’s actually is interest in.
Not many knows this.
So next time you try to seem Wine Savvy by trying to shit all over Merlot, just be proud of the fact that not only are you letting your decisions be based on FICTION, but that you are also basing your “savvy” wine deference on a fictitious character’s relationship with his wife that has nothing to do with the quality of a grape, or the wine produced from it.
Now that my wine snobbery is over…
Anyway, the point is the same as far as cocktail recipes.  You can make almost every drink several different ways and one person will like it sweet while another person likes is sour while another person wants to taste the booze in it etc.  However, that being said, this is a fucking good
Margarita
recipe, and it sure beats vodka, ice and lemon-lime powerade in a blender (No really, I have heard a guy swear by that version saying “Dude, chicks can’t tell the difference.”)  So enough of my blabbing except to say I have tweaked this (on my own but not the ingredients below) by adding both the Cointreau and
Grand Marnier
(splashes) or have added a splash of Patron Citronge to the mix.  The key is to NOT use
sour mix
at all in my opinion.  If you can do that, you are Golden.
By the way, this was posted at a science blog, which I think is kinda funny and ironic, but cool nonetheless.
Here we go:
The Best Margarita Recipe Ever from Hodges Lab
Have you ever gone to a restaurant because of their margaritas?  †
When I’m back in Dallas, I love the margaritas at El Fenix, Pappasito’s, and even Chili’s. But try to go home and find the recipes. All the recipes on the Internet are all the same: tequila, triple sec, lime juice, maybe some sour mix… make them and they always miss something . I’ve been buying out my local Beverages ‘n More to find that missing ingredient, and I think I finally got it.
Below is the best margarita recipe, capturing the  something  that makes a restaurant margarita so much better than the homemade versions:
Two parts tequila (good tequila is always better…)
Half part Grand Marnier (this is a critical part… trust me, don’t go cheap on the citrus liqueur. Cointreau also goes very well, but really doesn’t have the same aromatic flavor that Grand Marnier has; try them side-by-side; they have totally different flavors… if you cheat here with
Triple Sec
or Orange Curaçao, you  must  add a dash of orange bitters!)
Half part fresh lime juice.
Half part fresh lemon juice.
Half part
simple syrup .
Half part Limoncello (a fairly inexpensive type of lemon liqueur that isn’t sour but has lots of big citrus flavor… this is, I think, the secret ingredient in most restaurant margaritas— that extra citrus flavor adds a lot without making the drink more tart).
Pinch of salt. Very little will go a long way… alternatively, rim the glass with coarse salt.
Mix with a bunch of ice cubes in a shaker and shake violently for about 15 seconds (until ice starts to crystallize on the outside of your metal shaker). Pour contents into an old-fashioned glass and, for a nice visual appeal, you can finish with a drop of grenadine (let it sink to the bottom for a sweet finish). Add a couple of skinny straws and a slice of lime if you like. Trust me!
Hint : too strong for your taste? Stir in some lemon-lime soda— don’t shake!
(†)  In Texas, we really enjoy our margaritas.
UPDATE:  After fiddling with this for a while, I’ve found that it’s better to use fresh lime and syrup rather than sour mix. Even though there are good sour mixes out there (I’m talking about you,  Dr. Swami and Bone Daddy ), I find they don’t have quite the same freshness as when you use a fresh lime. In any case, if you can’t get fresh limes or don’t have five minutes to make simple syrup, you can substitute a quality sour mix—no neon yellow stuff, please!—for the lime juice and simple syrup above.
Enjoi
Rate this: Share this: Share Share on Tumblr Email Print Like this: Like
Loading...
Related
This entry was posted in
Drinksology
and tagged
Alcohol ,
award ,
bar ,
Bartender ,
bartending ,
cocktail ,
Cointreau ,
Drink ,
food ,
Grand Marnier ,
leisure ,
Margarita ,
Merlot ,
mixology ,
nightlife ,
recipe ,
Rex Pickett ,
sideways ,
Syrup ,
travel ,
Triple Sec ,
wine ,
winning . Bookmark the
permalink .
Post navigation
Solving the “I am Unworthy of an Attractive Woman” Issue (Part III)
Chicago – Drink Spots for your Dating Pleasure
2 responses to “ The Best Margarita Recipe Ever!? ”
Owen Scott Medd
says:
May 14, 2013 at 7:21 am
As a huge fan of the original Hodges Lab margarita (I have used this margarita recipe for years now and it never fails to impress people… and knock them on their butts too) thanks for re-posting this.
I had the recipe memorized, but sometimes after a couple of these one needs to fall back to the documentation.
Reply
Ronnie Libra
says:
January 31, 2014 at 1:17 pm
Your welcome. I’m glad I did reblog this
Looks like Hodges Lab is Kaput for good.
I even tried seaching for “Hodges Lab” best margarita recipe and nothing came up but my article.
That’s the second article in my blog I posted, that I think is a great article that disappeared from the original site.
Thanks for reading.
Reply
Leave a Comment
Cancel reply
Enter your comment here...
Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:
Email
(required)
(Address never made public)
Name
(required)
Website
You are commenting using your WordPress.com account.
(  Log Out  /  Change  )
You are commenting using your Twitter account.
(  Log Out  /  Change  )
You are commenting using your Facebook account.
(  Log Out  /  Change  )
You are commenting using your Google+ account.
(  Log Out  /  Change  )
Cancel
Connecting to %s
Notify me of new comments via email.
Notify me of new posts via email.
Follow Blog via Email
Enter your email address to follow this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Join 812 other followers
Follow The Libra Chronicles on WordPress.com
Top Posts & Pages The Best Margarita Recipe Ever!?
How to receive a Free Sleep Disorders Test
Sonic's Routines and Techniques
Captain Jack - Opening, Social Proof versus “Player in the Game” and Game Dynamics
Microcalibration Mini-Course - Everything You Need To Know to Step Up Your Game to Another Level
Zan Perrion's Notes - A Must Read for Anyone Interested in Seduction or even Dating
Overcompensating - The DREAD of the Intermediate Seducer
Pickup RAW Coaching and Bootcamps
Lay Report:
Blissfully Key Westy - Or I could name it Key West Fuck Parade to sound cool...
Self Loathing Pickup Artists, Coaches and Mark Manson
Recent Posts
The Dream and the Demonologist
Synchrodestiny –
Your Excuse to Seduce Without Fear
Learn to Love Yourself and a Special Event Coming Up
Microcalibration Mini-Course – Everything You Need To Know to Step Up Your Game to Another Level
Day2 Scrum – Dating How-To Mini Guide for Men
Why Would She Single You Out?
2014 in Review for Libra Chronicles
Pickup RAW Podcast #1 – The Game of Seduction – Do You Really Want It?
Risk Creepy by 60yearsofchallenge
Captain Jack – Opening, Social Proof versus “Player in the Game” and Game Dynamics
Step Through That Window – How to Skyrocket Your Success With Dating and Relationships
Peter Grimm: Myths and Truths about Pickup
Search
Search for:
https://twitter.com/LibraChronicles
@ bennydiego
@ FoxNews
@ tedcruz
@ megynkelly
Did you also complain when gay people were still having sex in Texas until 2003? 				 1 month ago
@ bennydiego
@ FoxNews
@ tedcruz
@ megynkelly
Really, because where were you when pro-marijuana Californians were breaking federal law? 				 1 month ago
RT @ SpaceMarine40 : @ LisaReneeJones
All three of these
#VMAs
losers are
#Donothingbitch
material.
I prefer to focus on real winners like #… 				 1 month ago
@ Chicagoist
Dave Grohl is about the most fake thing to ever happen to Rock and Roll. 				 1 month ago
@ instagram
@ MileyCyrus
@ jordvnhaus
Not gay, she just thinks she's supposed to be because it's "cool"
#Brainwashing
#politicalcorrectness
1 month ago
RT @ BrianTracy : Don't expect to see positive changes in your life if you surround yourself with negative people.
#wordsofwisdom
2 months ago
RT @ BrianTracy : Surround yourself with people that will build you up, not bring you down.
#BrianTracy
ow.ly/i/3cZWk
2 months ago
Follow @LibraChronicles Archived Goodness
July 2015  (1)
May 2015  (5)
December 2014  (1)
November 2014  (1)
October 2014  (1)
September 2014  (3)
June 2014  (2)
May 2014  (4)
February 2014  (1)
January 2014  (8)
December 2013  (2)
April 2013  (1)
March 2013  (1)
February 2013  (11)
January 2013  (3)
December 2012  (2)
August 2012  (1)
May 2012  (6)
April 2012  (1)
March 2012  (1)
February 2012  (6)
January 2012  (11)
December 2011  (13)
November 2011  (6)
October 2011  (8)
September 2011  (18)
May 2010  (2)
Categories Advanced Game
Dream Path
Dreams
Drinksology
Food
History - My Story
I Like
Music
Nonsense Ramblings
Online Dating
OPP
Podcasts
Political
Rants
Seduction
Seduction 101 - The Basics
Sexuality
Sleep
Uncategorized
Wisdom
Create a free website or blog at WordPress.com .
|
The Piano Black Theme .
Follow
Follow “The Libra Chronicles”
Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.
Join 812 other followers
Build a website with WordPress.com
Send to Email Address
Your Name
Your Email Address
Cancel
Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
%d
bloggers like this: