Eggy Space: Road Trip Day 25 - Desert Solitude, sort of
skip to main
|
skip to sidebar
Road Trip Day 25 - Desert Solitude, sort of
The breakfast at the Ramada Limited in
Green River, Utah
was lousy. I arrived for breakfast at 8:25am and there were 3 waffles, some bread, no fruit, no yogurt, 3 cold eggs without shells sitting uncovered, some rock hard bulk donuts, and cheap flimsy paper plates. Wow, my most expensive room in 3 weeks and such a lousy breakfast! I do have to admit, the hotel did have good pillows.
I left Green River about 10am heading west on
I-70 . Stopped several places to enjoy the beautiful view and geological features of
San Rafael Swell .
After a couple of hours, I reached
Salina, Utah , and found its best known attraction, an old statue of
Ute Chief Blackhawk
which is sometimes misidentified as
Milkshake Man .
Other than the statue, Salina is known for a
1945 massacre of German POWs .
I am heading to Ely, Nevada, and my GPS unit seems like it wants to route me west on
Utah SR-161
(to
Utah SR-257
to US-50). Fortunately, an employee at a Chevron Station in
Cove Fort, Utah
convinces me not to go that way since "It is a dirt road, and not good at all".
I subsequently confirmed this with satellite images.
Unfortunately, I was unaware of the
fort in Cove Fort, which offers daily free tours .
I headed north on
I-15 . It is interesting to see speed limit 80 MPH signs. It was raining and there was road work going on, so the actual 80 mile an hour drive was rather short lived.
I left I-15 heading west on a boring Utah portion of US-50 for about 2 hours until I hit the
Nevada border .
It takes about an hour to reach
Ely, Nevada
from the Utah-Nevada border on
US-50
(which becomes less flat and more interesting). I drove by the
Bristlecone Motel
(which was the
#1 rated motel in Ely according to Tripadvisor.com ) but there was No Vacancy. Actually, I should mention that I found
Tripadvisor.com
very useful during my road trip for its ordinal ranking of hotels (and motels) within a city. The number two rated hotel in Ely,
The Hotel Nevada (and Gambling Hall ), did have rooms available (and was less than $45 including tax, breakfast not included).
The
Nevada Hotel and Gambling Hall
is a very unique place. The 6 story building was
built in 1929
and is full of
memorabilia, curios, and old photos . My room on the fourth floor was large and the WiFi reception was great. The bed was a little soft for my taste. The bathroom was very small and had several signs warning about water pressure (but it worked great for me). The employees in the hotel, from desk clerk to waitress to bartender, were all very friendly and customer focused. The casino is comprised of
slot machines on the ground floor, and a fairly small card room
in the basement.
At registration, I was given a coupon for a free
Margarita
at the casino bar, and a beer across the street at The Liberty Club.
There was a 24 hour
Happy Hour with 99 cent Margaritas and $1 beers .
The Hotel Nevada
would be a great place for motorcycle riders or car clubs to visit. Actually, there were some guys there from some type of Corvette Club. The hotel and casino are fun and Highway 50 west of Ely is a great uncrowded road.
Posted by
Eggy
Labels:
Casino ,
NV ,
Road Trip ,
UT
Newer Post
Older Post
Home
Eggy's Popular Posts
Pineapple Rice Recipe - Part 1
Pineapple Rice Recipe - Part 2
How to Make a Pineapple Boat
Steamboat is like Chinese Fondue
My Reviews at SharedReviews.Com
Vintage Bugis Street Girls
Three Cups of Tea - An Amazing Story
About Me
I am Eggy. Actually, that is not my birth name or my legal name, but one time my actual name was not available when I was registering at a website so I started using Eggy. It is actually useful having a separate name in cyberspace, because when one of my friends refers to Eggy, I know they are referring to my internet incarnation.
I am a Singaporean who is now living in Northern California.
I hope to use this blog to share some of my recipes, thoughts, and whatever comes along. Cooking is one of my passions. I enjoy experimenting and trying different types of cooking. I won first prize in a Thai cooking competition a few years ago in Singapore. My recipes cover a pretty broad range (Chinese, Indian, Thai, Malay, Western, Fusion). Many of my recipes are spicy. I live to eat, not eat to live.
Contact Me
About Me
View my complete profile