MINKA NEWS: Month of South American Independences
Thursday, 11 August 2011
Month of South American Independences
MINKA NEWS English edition 60, 000 copies Castellano - Português Month of South American Independences
MINKA NEWS IS A NON-PROFIT COMMUNITY NEWSLETTER.  DIRECTOR RAUL MANCERA. 7 AUGUST 2011.  If you want to receive this newsletter in your e-mail write us to:   MINKANEWS@YMAIL.COM
INDEX The British and Irish legion in the South American independence wars  BRITISH BRAZILIAN AWARDS THE BRITISH LEGION IN THE SOUTH AMERICAN INDEPENDENCE WARS Battle of Boyacá 7 August, 1819 Battle of Junín August 6, 1824 Press Award/Reino Unido divulga lista dos premiados de sua edição inaugural Legión británica
The British and Irish legion in the South American independence wars
This weekend we remember two decisive battles were British and Irish soldiers played a decisive role in the independence of Latin America. On August 7 (1819) Bolívar’s combined Colombian and Venezuelan armies with the British-Irish legion defeated the Spanish royalist at Boyacá liberating Bogotá, the capital of the Spanish viceroyalty of the Northern Andes. On August 6 (1824) Bolívar leading an army with soldiers from all the 10 Hispanic South American countries defeated the last continental American Spanish viceroyalty at Junín (central Peru).    General William Miller was one of the heroes. Four months later the Latin American and British legions achieved the final victory against Madrid in continental America. On August 6 (1825) the Upper Peru was declared the new Republic of Bolivia. Every year the Bolivians celebrate their national day in August 6 and the Colombian had a national festivity on August 7, the date in which every 4 years a new Colombian President starts his period. Today Juan Manuel Santos, who lived many years in England, is achieving one year in office.        Yesterday night the Bolívar Hall was full of people celebrating Bolivia’s national day. The ambassador Beatriz Souvirone and the Consul Paola Verónica organized the event and today both are going to attend a 1,000-strong Christian cult at Elephant and Castle. At the same time most of the leaders of the 300,000 strong British Brazilian community gathered at the Canary Wharf Hilton to discuss with their Brazilian parliamentarian from abroad and to award around 20 personalities and organizations. We dedicate this special issue to the memory to 6,000 British and Irish soldiers who fought in the South American independence wars.
BRITISH BRAZILIAN AWARDS
On Friday 5 and Saturday 6 the UK’s Brazilian community had one of its most important events ever: the International Brazilian Press Award. The most distinguished artist, cultural, media, social and community personalities were distinguished. Around 300 people gathered at the Hilton Hotel (Canaru Wharf) un a very well organized event that started with a panel with the President of the Parliament of the Brazilian living abroad (CRBE) and the four Brazilian European members of that Parliament. They discussed many issues relating the 3 million Brazilian living outside their homeland. Around 20 personalities and organizations from all the European Brazilian community were awarded.    The event finished few hours ago. Minka had a report in Portuguese on it in its Portuguese language section, and a full report in English is going to appear in the incoming week. In the above picture is Professor Else Vieira, one of the collaborators of Minka News, who received the awards for promoting the Brazilian culture in the UK.
THE BRITISH LEGION IN THE SOUTH AMERICAN INDEPENDENCE WARS The Union Flag was a battle flag of the British Legions during   Bolívar's campaign to liberate New Granada . [ 1 ]   The   British Legion   or   British Legions   were   foreign volunteer   units that   fought under Simón Bolívar   against Spain for the independence of  Colombia ,   Venezuela ,   Ecuador , and   Peru . The Venezuelans called them the   Albion Legion . They were composed of over seven thousand volunteers, mainly   Napoleonic War   veterans from   Great Britain   and   Ireland , as well as some German veterans and some locals recruited after arriving in South America. Volunteers in the British Legion were motivated by a combination of both genuine   political   and   mercenary   motives. [ 1 ] Their greatest achievements were at   Boyacá   (1819),   Carabobo   (1821), and   Pichincha   (1822), which secured independence for Colombia, Venezuela and Ecuador, and during the last great campaign, culminating in the   Battle of Ayacucho   in Peru (1824), which destroyed Spanish rule in South America forever. The British Legions fought until the end of the wars, their number much depleted. Flag of the Irish Legion carried by General Devereux. [ 2 ] In March 1819, Bolivar combined most of his foreign volunteers into a brigade of 250 men named the British Legions, with   James Rooke   as commander. The British Legions consisted of the 1st British Legion led by Colonel   James Towers English , the 2nd British Legion led by Colonel   John Blossett , and the Irish Legion, led by Colonel   William Aylmer   (1772–1820). The British Legions were an important part of Bolívar's army. They played a pivotal role in the   Vargas Swamp Battle   on July 25, 1819, and Bolivar credited them with the victory at the subsequent   Battle of Boyacá   on August 7, 1819, saying "those soldier-liberators are the men who deserve these laurels." At the victory at   Carabobo   Bolívar describing them as "the saviours of my country". [ 3 ]   Nonetheless, they have been largely forgotten in the countries in which they fought: Colombia, Venezuela, and Ecuador and Peru. Motivation The motivations of volunteers for the British Legions were mixed. Many Britons were still concerned by the threat that Spain, as a restored world power, potentially posed to Britain. Despite Spain and Britain having been allies in the   Peninsular War   just a few years before, many Britons' image of the Spanish in America was influenced by the now-disputed   Black Legend . Volunteers were also motivated by the   liberal   propaganda of Bolívar's supporters that portrayed the war as bringing freedom and rights to people under Spanish tyranny. For these reasons, particularly the former, the recruiting of British volunteers received tacit government support, even if in principle the British Crown discontinued its support to the insurgents after the   Congress of Vienna   in 1814. [ 4 ] However   mercenary   interests also played a large part in motivating potential recruits, who were often unemployed, and who perceived South America as a land of immense wealth of which they would be able to have a share. At the end of the Napoleonic Wars the British Empire no longer required a large standing army. In April, 1817,   The Times   calculated that there were 500,000 ex-soldiers in a British population of 25 million. After a quarter-century of Continental wars—both the wars against   Revolutionary France   and the   Napoleonic Wars —these men had no other employment history or trade and, therefore, often found themselves in poverty.   South America's wars of independence   provided many of them with an opportunity to continue their military careers and escape from the prospect of inactivity and poverty at home.
Leaders: Number of British soldiers Número de soldados británicos
Colonel Hippisley 720
Colonel English 1.200
Colonel Elson 572
General D’Evereux 1.729
General Mac Gregor 600
Colonel Meceroni 300
Others/ Otros 387
Total 5.508
James Rooke   (1770-1819) was a   British   career soldier in the   Napoleonic wars . He became commander under   Simon Bolivar   of the   British Legions   during the   South American wars of independence . James Rooke was born in   Dublin   around 1770. He joined the British Army in 1791 and fought in various campaigns against the   French , reaching the rank of Major by 1802. Rooke was well-connected, and became a close friend of the   Prince of Wales . However, in 1801 he had to sell most of his property to pay his debts, and moved to France, which was then at peace with Britain. When war broke out again, the French authorities interned Rooke. He remained in prison until his escape at the start 1813, when he joined   Wellington 's army in Spain. Rooke was discharged from the army when hostilities ended in 1814, but on   Napoleon 's return in 1815, he rejoined and fought at the   Battle of Waterloo . Rooke left the British army in 1816 and made a trip to   St. Kitts   in the   Caribbean   to visit his sister, who was wife of the Governor of the colony. In September 1817, Rooke sailed to Angostura (now   Ciudad Bolívar ) in   Venezuela   and enrolled in Bolivar’s Patriot army as a Lieutenant Colonel. He organized and was given command of an Anglo-Venezuelan unit, the 1st Regiment of Hussars of Venezuela. [ 1 ] With this unit, he fought in various battles in the inconclusive Venezuelan campaign of 1818, and received two wounds. In March 1819, Bolivar combined most of his foreign volunteers into a brigade of 250 men named the British Legion, with Rooke as commander. In a bold attempt to break the stalemate with the   Spanish   forces, Bolivar decided to move west, ascend the   Andes   and seize the high ground. The journey in the height of the rainy season was gruelling and the force lost 300 men en route, of whom 60 were from the British Legion. [ 2 ] After a pause for recovery, Bolivar led his forces in the   Vargas Swamp Battle , in   Boyacá ,   Colombia , where the British Legion under Rooke fought with distinction, storming uphill against the Spanish defences. During this action Rooke was seriously wounded which led to the amputation of his left arm. [ 3 ] Once Rooke lost his arm, he raised his right arm and shouted in poorly accented Spanish: "Viva la Patria!" The surgeon asked him in English: "Which Country? Ireland or England?" Rooke shook his head and replied: "The Country which will bury me..." Shortly after, Rooke died on 28 July 1819 at a monastery in Belén de Chámeza, near   Tunja . Rooke is remembered proudly and Colombia honors him for being one of the architects of south American nations independence. His widow, Mrs. Anna Rooke, drew a pension for life and was given honors of a Military Widow.   [ 4 ] There is a bronze statue of Colonel Rooke at the nearby village of Paipa.
James Towers English   (22 February 1782 – 26 September 1819) was an   Irish   commander of   British Legions   forces in the   South American wars of independence . James Towers English was the son of a well-to-do Dublin merchant. He went into business supplying horses to the British Army until his company went bankrupt, then took a job with the army Commissariat as a clerk. [ 1 ]   In May 1817 he met López Méndez, the representative of   Simon Bolívar   in London. Claiming to have been a cavalry lieutenant, he was made a captain in the '1st Venezuelan Hussars' and sailed for South America in December 1817. He fought with distinction at the battle of Ortiz on 26 March 1818, and was promoted to full Colonel and appointed second-in-command of the British Guard of Honor led by   James Rooke . [ 2 ] In May 1818, he signed a contract with the Patriot government to recruit and equip a British force of 1,000 men, in return for which he was promised £50 per head and a General's commission. By painting a rosy picture of pay and conditions in South America, he succeeded in recruiting between 1,000 and 2,000 mercenaries, who sailed during the following months. English returned to Venezuela and landed on Margarita Island in mid-April, 1819 where he was confirmed in the rank of Brigadier General and was given command of all the foreign mercenaries, as subordinate to Venezuelan General   Rafael Urdaneta . [ 3 ] In July 1819 he participated in storming the fortress of El Morro, which guarded the city   Barcelona . His troops looted the city, drank all the alcohol they could find and devastated their section of the town. On August 7 1819 Urdaneta's army attempted to storm   Maturín   but failed after grievous losses in their assault against Fort Agua Santa, while General English remained in the rear pleading sickness. [ 1 ]   With his authority destroyed, English was replaced as leader of the British Legion by Colonel   John Blossett . English retired to   Margarita Island where he died of illness on 26 September 1819 and is buried in a cemetery overlooking Juan Griego Bay. [ 4 ]   His wife, Mary, remained in Colombia and married the English trader William Greenup. [ 5 ]
Colonel   John Blossett   was a British soldier who led the second   British Legion   to aid   Simon Bolivar   in the   wars of independence   against   Spain . Born in   Ireland , the great-grandson of   Huguenot   Brigadier-General   Salomon Blosset de Loche   who had assisted   William of Orange   in the taking of the British Crown in 1688, Blossett entered the British Army in 1798, serving in the   10th Foot   and rising to the level of Captain in 1814 and Major at the time of his discharge from the army in 1817. In 1819 Blossett was awarded the rank of Colonel by   Simon Bolivar   as leader of the British expedition to assist him in the war of independence, taking over from General   James Towers English . [ 1 ]   Having fought a number of duels throughout his career Blossett was fatally shot by Colonel Power whilst on the expedition in South America.
William Aylmer   (1778-1820) from Painstown,   County Kildare ,   Ireland   was a leader of the   United Irishmen   in the 1798 Rebellion against the   British   government. At the   Battle of Ovidstown on 19 June 1798 he led a fierce battle against superior forces in which 200 insurgents died. Aylmer retreated into the inaccessible   Bog of Allen   and set up a defensive camp for over a month. Eventually he surrendered in return for a safe conduct abroad; effectively a form of exile. [ 1 ] [ 2 ] Released from prison in 1802, he went into exile to   Austria [ 3 ] , where he served as an officer and noted swordsman in the   Austrian Army , from which he was at one point detached to tutor British Dragoons in the art of swordsmanship. [ 4 ] After almost twenty years in Austria he returned to Ireland, and in 1819 sailed from   Dublin   to   Venezuela   with 200 officers and men to assist   Simon Bolivar 's independence struggle as commander of the Tenth Lancers and second in command of the Irish Legion under lieutenant-colonel   Francisco Burdett O'Connor . He arrived in September 1819 on the island of  Margarita   off the coast of Venezuela, where lack of preparations caused severe hardships. Many of the volunteers died or returned to Ireland. [ 5 ] [ 6 ]   He was wounded at the Battle of   Rio Hacha   on 25 May 1820 and died in   Jamaica   on 20 June 1820. [ 7 ]
Martin Guisse   was a   Royal Navy   Admiral and veteran of the   Battle of Trafalgar   who later assumed command of the   Peruvian Navy , in whose service he was killed in action in 1829. Guisse was a restless, adventure-loving man. Like   Lord Cochrane   he had been in the Royal Navy — taking part in one of   Britain 's greatest naval victories, the Battle of Trafalgar, in 1805. When Guisse heard of the   South American wars of independence   he resigned from the Navy, bought his own ship, the Hecate , and set sail never to return to Britain. He arrived in   Buenos Aires   and quickly came to an agreement with Cochrane. Guisse's role in the battles that followed was significant, in spite of frequent, bitter disagreements with Cochrane. It was his contribution to the attack on the   Esmeralda   that made its capture possible. After the war and in poor health, he retired to   Miraflores   where he married the young   Limenian ,   Juana Valle Riestra . But his peaceful life was short. When war broke out against   Colombia   in 1829 he was asked to take command of the Peruvian Navy. His fleet captured   Guayaquil   but he was killed by a sniper during the battle.  William Miller, the British hero in the JUNIN battle .
President   José de la Riva Agüero   promoted Miller to General of Brigade and, when   Simón Bolívar   arrived, he was promoted to Chief of a cavalry unit that included Argentines and Chileans who had arrived with   San Martín , in addition to many Peruvians and Colombians. At the   Battle of Junín   his cavalry was largely responsible for the defeat of the Spanish and at the   Battle of Ayacucho   his initiative in launching an attack at a critical moment, without waiting for   Sucre's   orders, was decisive in securing victory. During these wars Miller was wounded twenty two times, and after his death the autopsy revealed he had carried two bullets in his liver for 40 years. He created the Hussars of the Peruvian Legion who, after turning the course of the Battle of Junín in favour of the revolutionaries, were renamed the "Hussars of Junín". These same Hussars remain in charge of the guard at the Peruvian Palace of Government in Lima.
Thomas Cochrane
Admiral   Thomas Cochrane, 10th Earl of Dundonald, 1st Marquess of Maranhão ,   GCB ,   ODM   (14 December 1775 – 31 October 1860), styled   Lord Cochrane   between 1778 and 1831, [ 1 ] [ 2 ]   was a senior   British   naval   flag officer   and   radical   politician. He was a daring and successful   captain   of the   Napoleonic Wars , leading the French to nickname him   Le Loup des Mers   ('The Sea Wolf' or 'The Wolf of the Seas'). He was dismissed from the   Royal Navy   in 1814, following a conviction for fraud on the Stock Exchange and he then served in the rebel navies of   Chile ,   Brazil   and   Greece   during their respective wars of independence. In 1832, he was pardoned and reinstated in the   Royal Navy   with the rank of   Rear Admiral of the Blue . After several further promotions, he died in 1860 with the rank of   Admiral of the Red , and the   honorary title   of   Rear-Admiral of the United Kingdom .
Chilean Navy   A painting of the   Capture of Valdivia   in the Chilean naval and maritime museum Cochrane left the UK accompanied by Lady Cochrane and their two children, he reached   Valparaiso   on 28 November 1818. On 11 December 1818, at the request of   Chilean   leader   Bernardo O'Higgins , Cochrane became a Chilean citizen, was appointed Vice Admiral, and took command of the   Chilean Navy   in Chile's   war of independence   against Spain. He was the first   Vice Admiral of Chile . [ 51 ] (p37)   Cochrane reorganized the Chilean navy, introducing British naval customs. He took command in the frigate   O'Higgins   and blockaded and raided the coasts of   Peru   as he had those of France and Spain. On his own initiative he organized and led the   capture of Valdivia , despite only having 300 men and two ships to deploy against seven large forts. However, he failed in his   attempt to capture   the   Chiloé Archipelago   for Chile. In 1820, O'Higgins ordered him to convoy the Liberation Army of General   Jose de San Martin   to Peru, blockade the coast and support the campaign for independence. Later, forces under Cochrane's personal command cut out and captured the frigate   Esmeralda , the most powerful Spanish ship in   South America . All this led to Peruvian independence, which O'Higgins considered indispensable to Chile's independence and security. Cochrane's victories in the Pacific were spectacular and important but the euphoria was almost immediately marred by accusations that he had been plotted against by subordinates and treated with contempt and denied adequate financial reward by his superiors. It is clear from the evidence that none of these accusations is true and that the root of the problem lay in Cochrane's own suspicious and uneasy personality. [ 52 ] Loose words of Katty resulted in a story that Cochrane have made plans to free   Napoleon   from his exile on   Saint Helena   and make him ruler of a unified South American state, a non-sense because Charles, the envoy, was killed two months before his "departure to Europe". [ 53 ]   Cochrane left the service of the Chilean Navy on 29 November 1822. Chilean naval vessels named after Lord Cochrane The Chilean Navy has named five ships   Cochrane   or   Almirante Cochrane   (Admiral Cochrane) in his honour: The first,   Almirante Cochrane , was a famous   battery ship   that fought in the   War of the Pacific   (1879–1884).
The second   Almirante Cochrane   was a   dreadnought   battleship laid down in Britain in 1913. The   Royal Navy   acquired the unfinished ship in 1917, converting her into to the carrier HMS  Eagle  (1918) .
The third ship,   Cochrane , was a   Fletcher -class   destroyer , the former   USS  Rooks  (DD-804) , commissioned into the Chilean Navy in 1962 and scrapped in 1983.
The fourth ship,   Almirante Cochrane , was a   County -class   destroyer , the former   HMS  Antrim  (D18) , which the Chilean Navy acquired in 1984 and decommissioned in 2006.
The fifth and current ship to bear the name,   Almirante Cochrane   (FF-05) , is a   Type 23   frigate , the former   HMS  Norfolk  (F230) , which the Chilean Navy commissioned in 2006.
Brazilian Navy Brazil   was fighting its own   war of independence   against   Portugal . Excepting   Montevideo   (in today   Uruguay , then   Cisplatina ), along the 1822, the southern provinces fell under the control of the patriots led by the Prince Regent, later   Emperor Pedro I , but Portugal still controlled some north important capitals, with major garrisons and naval bases like   Belém do Pará , Salvador da Bahia   and   São Luís do Maranhão . Coat of arms of the Marquess of Maranhão. [ 54 ] Cochrane took command of the   Brazilian Navy   on 21 March 1823 and its   flagship , the 'Pedro I'. He blockaded the Portuguese in   Bahia , confronted them at the   Battle of May 4 , and forced them to evacuate the province in a vast convoy of ships which Cochrane's men attacked as they crossed the Atlantic. Cochrane then sailed to   Maranhão   (then called Maranham) on his own initiative and bluffed the garrison into surrender by claiming that a vast (and mythical) Brazilian fleet and army were over the horizon. He then sent a subordinate, Captain   John Pascoe Grenfell , to   Belem do Pará   to use the same bluff and extract a Portuguese surrender. As a result of Cochrane's efforts, Brazil was now totally de facto independent and free from any Portuguese troops. On his return to   Rio de Janeiro , the   Emperor Pedro I   rewarded him by making him the   Marquess of Maranhão   (Marquês do Maranhão) in the   Empire of Brazil   in 1824. He was also awarded an accompanying coat of arms. Although many suggested that the Brazilian title was not hereditary, the descendants of Lord Dundonald preserved the title among themselves. [ 55 ] Unfortunately, as in Chile, Cochrane's joy at these successes was rapidly replaced by quarrels over pay and prize money and a totally imaginary accusation that the Brazilian authorities were plotting against him. [ 56 ] In mid- 1824, Cochrane sailed north with a squadron to assist the Brazilian army, under General Francisco Lima e Silva, suppress a republican rebellion in the state of   Pernambuco   which had begun to spread to   Maranhão   and other northern states. The rebellion was rapidly extinguished. Cochrane then proceeded to   Maranhão   where he took over the administration and demanded the payment of a vast sum of prize money which he claimed was owing to himself and the squadron as a result of the recapture of the province in 1823. [ 57 ]   He took all money from the public funds and sacked all merchant ships anchored in   São Luís do Maranhão . [ 58 ]   Then, defying orders to return to   Rio de Janeiro , Cochrane transferred to a captured Brazilian frigate, left Brazil on 10 November 1825 and returned to Britain.
Battle of Boyacá 7 August, 1819
Battle of Boyacá
Part of   Bolivar in New Granada ,   Venezuelan War of Independence
Painting of the Battle of Boyaca, which resulted in the independence of Colombia, Venezuela, Ecuador and Panama from Spain. Exhibited in the Federal Palace, Caracas, Venezuela.
Date August 7, 1819
Location Boyacá ,   Colombia
Result Decisive Republican victory
Belligerents
Independentist army * Foreign volunteers   British Legions
Spain Hispanic American royalists
Commanders and leaders
General-in-Chief Simón Antonio Bolívar .   Brigade General Francisco de Paula Santander .   Brigade General   Jose Antonio Anzoátegui .   Brigade General Carlos Soublette   Colonel   José María Barreiro   .   Colonel Francisco Jiménez .   Colonel   Sebastián Díaz Execution of Spanish officers
Strength
3430 2940 colombian-venezuelan loyalist soldiers
Casualties and losses
13 dead, 53 injured. over 100 casualties, 150 injured and 1600 prisoners.
The   Battle of Boyacá   in   Colombia , then known as   New Granada , was the battle in which Colombia acquired its definitive independence from   Spanish Monarchy , although fighting with royalist forces would continue for years. Brigadier Generals   Francisco de Paula Santander   and   José Antonio Anzoátegui   led a combined republican army of Colombians and Venezuelans, complemented by the   British Legion , to defeat in two hours a Royalist Colombian-Venezuelan forces led by Spanish Colonels   José María Barreiro   and Francisco Jiménez. Simón Bolívar   credited the victory to the British Legion declaring that "those soldier liberators are the men who deserve these laurels" when offered laurels after the victory. The battle occurred 150 km from   Bogotá   in the   Andes Mountains , in a place known as   Casa de Teja , close to a bridge over the Teatinos River and 3 roads heading to Samaca, Motavita and   Tunja , an area which is now part of the   Boyacá Department .
The battle On August 7, 1819, after Bolívar secured a narrow victory at   Vargas Swamp Battle , both armies headed towards   Bogotá , which was lightly defended. The capture of the capital in the hands of the Patriot Army would effectively cut off the advance of the republican army and give the strategic initiative to its opponents. At 6:00 a.m., the Spanish forces departed from Motavita towards Casa de Teja, a distance of only 25 km which the Spaniards completed in 7 hours 30 minutes, at an average speed of 18 minutes per kilometer. At 10:00 a.m. General Santander's forces departed from   Tunja   toward Casa de Piedra and the road to Bogota. The Patriot forces completed the 16 km in 4 hours (at an average rate of 15 minutes per kilometer). The Republican forces split in two: the vanguard reached Casa de Teja at 1:30 p.m., while the rearguard stopped a kilometer and a half behind to get some rest. Shortly before 2:00 p.m., Capitan Andres Ibarra and his forces spotted Casa de Teja and the vanguard of the Republican Army. The Spaniards spotted him too, and Coronel Sebastian Dias, chief of the vanguard of the Spanish army ordered to follow and engage what he believed was only a small observation force. They returned and General Santander ordered Lieutenant Coronel Paris to attack the Republican forces. The Spanish vanguard crossed a strategic bridge over the Teatinos River and took attack positions there. Meanwhile, the full force of the Patriot army under Santander had reached Casa de Piedra. The Spanish rearguard was still several meters behind, so General Anzoátegui ordered to block the way between the vanguard and the rearguard of the Spanish forces. The rearguard, outnumbered, retreated to a small hill close to Casa de Piedra. Simón Bolívar's forces arrived from Papia, after the Vargas Swamp battle. He ordered a flank attack on the Spanish rearguard: battalions Barcelona and Bravos de Paez were to attack on the right side while the Britanica and Rifles legion attacked on the left. The enemy assumed battle positions: in the center were three artillery pieces surrounded by royal battalions 12 and 22, and on the wings, cavalry units. Outnumbered, the Spanish rear guard began to retreat without any clear direction. Therefore, Bolívar ordered lancers units to attack the center of the Republican infantry, while a full cavalry squadron ran away from the battle via the road towards Samaca. Bareiro attempted to break the blockage of the Patriot forces and rendezvous with the Spanish vanguard but heavy enemy fire forced him and his forces to surrender. Meanwhile, one kilometer and a half behind Casa de Piedra, the Patriot vanguard managed to ford the river and was approaching the rear of the Republican vanguard force. Once it reached them, the vanguard forces engaged in battle, while the rearguard attempted to cross the river by force, using bayonets. The Spanish forces fled, leaving on the bridge their leader, Coronel Juan Taira. As the assembly of enemy prisoners began, the battle was over shortly after 4:00 p.m. At least 1,600 troops and several of the Spanish commanders, including Barreiro himself, were captured at the end of the battle. New Granada's liberation was assured by this victory, which left the road to Bogotá and the city itself practically undefended, as the survivors headed towards other locations. After the battle, Santander and Anzoátegui were promoted to  Divisional General . On the orders of Santander, Coronel Barreiro and 38 more were executed in Bogotá on October 11, 1819. The bridge in question, el   Puente de Boyacá , is no longer in use but it has been maintained as a symbol of the Independence of South America.
The final defeat of Royal forces in the   New Kingdom of Granada   and the weakening of the rest of the forces in all America.
The royalist understand that the patriots were worthy of respect for their courage and heroism.
The end of Spanish control over the American provinces, with the escape of viceroy Juan de Samano.
The following freedom of all provinces in the New Kingdom.
The creation of   Gran Colombia .
The start of an autonomous government in the former Spanish provinces.
The independence of   Venezuela ,   Peru ,   Ecuador   and the creation of   Bolivia .
Viceroy   Juan de Samano was informed of the defeat and manage to escape and flee to Spain, which brought to an end the reign of the Spanish Empire in northern Latin America. In commemoration of this battle, August 7 is a   national holiday   in Colombia. On this date every 4 years the elected   President of Colombia   is proclaimed in the   Casa de Nariño . Taking advantage of this date, the Colombian capital, Bogotá, start the usual celebrations in commemoration of the birth of the city, on August 6, 1538.
Battle of Junín August 6, 1824
Battle of Junín
Part of the   Peruvian War of Independence
Battle of Junín   by   Martín Tovar y Tovar . Oil on canvas.
Date August 6, 1824
Location Junín Region
Result Independist victory
Belligerents
Independist army Royalist army
Commanders and leaders
Simón Bolívar Antonio José de Sucre José de Canterac
Strength
1,000 1,300
Casualties and losses
150 250
The   Battle of Junín   was a military engagement of the   Peruvian War of Independence , fought in the highlands of the   Junín Region on August 6, 1824. The preceding February the royalists had regained control of Lima, and having regrouped in   Trujillo ,   Simón Bolívar   in June led his rebel forces south to confront the Spanish under   Field Marshal   José de Canterac . The two armies met on the plains of Junín, northwest of the   Jauja Valley . Bolivar (with 8,000 soldiers), in a hurry to try to cut the royalist retreat (8,000 soldiers) towards Cuzco, sent out his cavalry (1,000) to delay the movement of Spanish troops out of the Junin Plain. The Spaniards sent out their cavalry (1,300) to disrupt the incoming patriot cavalry to give Canterac time to withdraw his infantry from the plain. The plain is a marshland close to the Junin lake and the patriot troops were trying to form for battle when they were struck by the charge of the Spanish cavalry and sent back in confusion.
Patch awarded by officers who took part of the Peruvian Campaign in 1823-24. However, the Spanish charge missed one squadron of the Columbian Grenadiers under   Felipe Braun , which managed to form and charge the Spaniard cavalry's rear. The surprise caused the Spanish cavalry to drop their weapons, turn tail and run for the protection of their infantry, which had already vacated the plain. The battle lasted about one hour, and it involved hand-to-hand cavalry clashes with   lance   and   saber . As solely a cavalry battle, no firearms were used. About 250 royalist and 150 independentists were killed.Although in actuality this battle would qualify as little more than a skirmish, this military engagement greatly enhanced the morale of the victorious independentists, with a first win in Perú. The retreat of Canterac's troops after the defeat in Junin was relentless and defections from the Peruvian royalist troops to the patriots increased considerably. Eventually the Viceroy of Peru ,   José de la Serna e Hinojosa , had to step in as commander of the Spanish forces to try and restore morale.   Felipe Braun   became the "hero of Junín".
Pueblito Paisa/ Wards Corner/ Iberian American winners Wards Corner Community Coalition members at Haringey Civic Centre, Wood Green, 20th July 2011. Preparing to go into the planning meeting which subsequently voted 5-4 to reject the Grainger plan to redevelop Seven Sisters. Important events
Sunday 7 th  August – Christian cult for Bolivia. Elephat and Castle Fusion Centre. 11:30 am. Saturday 13 th  August – Celebration of the Andean independence and the Pueblito Paisa victory at the Bernie Grant Centre. Tottenham.
Press Award/Reino Unido divulga lista dos premiados de sua edição inaugural (Cerimônia/Show de premiação foi o dia 6 de Agosto no HILTON CANARY WHARF, em Londres)
Após avaliar indicações recebidas da mídia, entidades culturais e comunitárias brasileiras, o Board de Premiação do   Brazilian International Press Award/Reino Unido   divulgou os premiados que deverão estar recebendo seus troféus "Newspaper Boy" dia 6 de agosto, no Salão de Eventos do   Hilton Canary Wharf , em Londres.
Os premiados de 2011 no Reino Unido são:
- ABEP - Michael Mohallem (Associação de Pesquisadores Acadêmicos) - Natan Barreto (Literatura) - Henrique Goldman (Cineasta) - Fernanda Franco & Rose Chamberlain (Festival de Cinema Brasileiro) - StoneCrabs Theatre Company - Franko Figueiredo     (Teatro) - Paul Heritage (Promoção da Cultura Brasileira) - Naz Vidas - José Resinente (Ação Social & Humanitária) - ABRIR - Brazilian Association of Educational Projects in the   UK      (Promoção do Idioma Português) - Else R. P. Vieira (Promoção da Cultura Brasileira) -   BREACC - Brazilian Educational and Cultural Center of the   UK     (Educação, Cultura & Idioma) - London School of Samba - Gui Tavares (Promoção de Música Brasileira) - Marcus Fumagalli (Mídia Comunitária Brasileira) - London School of Capoeira - Banda Pé de Jurema (Música Popular Brasileira)
Premios Especiais
- Projeto Taru (Arte, Educação & Consciência Ecológica) - Marcelo Bratke (Pianista) - Ana Maria Pacheco (Artista Plastica) - Marcos Valle (Músico) - Homenagem aos veículos de comunicação comunitários brasileiros na Europa
A noite de premiação do Press Award/Reino Unido, foi o ponto culminante da programação conjunta com o Seminário   FOCUS-BRAZIL ,    tuvo um show especial do homenageado   MARCOS VALLE .
Reconhecidos pelo Ministério das Relações Exteriores entre os mais relevantes eventos culturais brasileiros no exterior, o   Brazilian International PRESS AWARD e o FOCUS-BRAZIL   iniciam por Londres, com a realização do   FOCUS-BRAZIL & PRESS AWARD REINO UNIDO 2011 , o processo de internacionalização que pretende integrar diversas comunidades emigrantes brasileiras no mundo.
O   FOCUS-BRAZIL   foi nos dias 5 & 6 de agosto, com os painéis do Seminário FOCUS-BRAZIL ocupando a faixa horária das 9 da manhã às 17:00 horas. A cerimônia/show do PRESS AWARD será realizada no dia 6, sábado, a partir das 19:30 horas. Ambos eventos acontecerom no   HILTON CANARY WHARF HOTEL .
Os eventos     FOCUS-BRAZIL & PRESS AWARD REINO UNIDO 2011   dão sequência a uma tradição que há 14 anos tem o apoio da   TAM Airlines ,   TV Globo Internacional, Banco do Brasil   e Ministério das Relações Exteriores.
Para maiores informações sobre os eventos, consulte os sites oficiais
FOCUS   BRAZIL   -   www.focusbrazil.com Brazilian International PRESS AWARD   -   www.pressaward.com
A edição inaugural  do   FOCUS-BRAZIL EUROPA   – Congresso Internacional de Cultura, Mídia & Comunidade Brasileira , marcada para os dias   5 e 6 de agosto   de 2011 no   Hilton Canary Wharf , em Londres  foi  marcada por importantes debates acerca de temas atuais que interessam e afetam aos cerca de 3 milhões de brasileiros que residem no exterior. Entre os eventos incluídos na programação estuvo encontro dos representantes eleitos para o   CRBE (Conselho de Representantes Brasileiros no Exterior) , contando com as presenças do   Embaixador Eduardo Gradilone , atual Subsecretário do Itamaraty para as Comunidades Brasileiras no Exterior e do Presidente do CRBE, educador   Carlos Shinoda , do Japão. Os quatro titulares do CRBE eleitos pela Europa –   Carlos Mellinger   (Inglaterra),   Laércio Silva   (Inglaterra),   Mônica Pereira   (Bélgica) e  Flávio Carvalho   (Espanha) – também são presenças confirmadas. O Painel do CRBE foi o de abertura do evento, dia 5, das 9 da manhã ao meio dia, contando com a presença do Cônsul-Geral do Brasil em Londres,   Embaixador Marcus de Vincenzi   e outras autoridades. O primeiro dia do evento foi completado das 14 às 17 horas com o   Painel Promoção das Artes e Cultura do Brasil , que tuvo como convidados especiais o legendário músico brasileiro de carreira internacional   Marcos Valle   e  a atriz, produtora e autora   Edel Holz , multipremiada por suas iniciativas de teatro para comunidades brasileiras nos Estados Unidos. Ao lado dela estuvo o produtor e diretor teatral   Franko Figueiredo   (StoneCrabs Theatre Company-Londres) e a professora   Else R. P. Vieira , da Queen Mary University of London. No sábado, das 9 da manhã ao meio-dia foi realizado o   Painel de Promoção da Língua Portuguesa , para o qual virão especialmente, dos Estados Unidos, a educadora   Anete Arslanian , atual Presidente da American Organization of Teachers of Portuguese com a presença da Presidente da Associação de escolas Brasileiras do Japão,   Maria Yoshida . Das 14:00 às 16:00 foi o   Painel de Negócios   mediado por   Marcelo Spínola , diretor de distribuição da TV Globo Internacional. Como convidados contaremos com a presença de   José Sales , diretor da TAM Airline Europa-Asia-África,   Paulo Guimarães , diretor geral do Banco do Brasil em Londres,   Daniel Costa Fernandes , chefe do setor comercial da Embaixada do Brasil em Londres e   Sergio Gullo , Câmara de Comercio Brasileira da Grã- Bretanha. Das 16:15 às 18:30 foi a vez do   Painel da Mídia Comunitária Brasileira na Europa , que pela primeira vez na História da emigração brasileira, tuvo em Londres representantes dos mais relevantes veículos de comunicação comunitários brasileiros da Europa. Além do convidado especial,   Zigomar Vuelma , Presidente da Associação Brasileira de Imprensa Internacional, tuvo os seguintes representantes dos veículos:  Vicente Lou   (Leros Magazine-Inglaterra),   Marcelo Mortimer   (Brazilian Post-Inglaterra),   Tânia Spittle   (Brasil ETC-Europa),   Carolina Beal   (Brazilian News-Inglaterra),   Régis Querino   (Real Magazine-Inglaterra),   Juliano Zappia   (Vamos!-Inglaterra),   Márcia Curvo (brasileirosnaholanda.com–Holanda),   Mauro Cardoso   (Brazuca Magazine-França),   Bianca Donatangelo   (Guia Acibra-Alemanha), Frazão Araújo   (BrasilcomZ-Espanha),   Angela Piqui   (ABC Classificados-Bélgica),   Erika Zidko   (Aqui Notícias-Itália),   Luiz Mendez   (Aqui Milão-Itália),   Luis Malheiro   (Brasil Plus-Suíça),   Ricardo Silva   (Revista News Brazil-Irlanda). Também estão confirmadas as presenças de Antônio e Ana Martins   (Acontece.com e Acontece Magazine– Estados Unidos),   Fernanda Cirino   (Gazeta News–Estados Unidos), Fernando Vasconcellos   (BRTVonline.com) e   Arthur Muranaga   (Grupo IPC–Japão). Patrocinado pela   TAM Airlines ,   Banco do Brasil   e   TV Globo Internacional , o   FOCUS-BRAZIL EUROPA-Congresso Internacional de Cultura, Mídia & Comunidade Brasileira,   tem apoio do   Ministério das Relações Exteriores   e do   Consulado Geral do Brasil em Londres . Instituições brasileiras do Reino Unido que apóiam o evento:   Casa do Brasil em Londres, ABRAS, ABRIR   e   BREACC . O evento tem parcerias internacionais com a   American Organization of Teachers of Portuguese ,   ABI-Internacional/Brazilian International Press Association   e com o   Projeto Minha Pátria, Minha Língua .
EVENTOS POR EL DIA DE BOLIVIA:   DOMINGO 7 DE AGOSTO: ACCION DE GRACIAS POR BOLIVIA. COMUNIDAD CRISTIANA DE LONDRES. FUSION CENTRE. 22 ELEPHANT RD. SE 1. SABADO 13 DE AGOSTO. CELEBRACION DE LOS DIAS NACIONALES DE COLOMBIA, PERU, BOLIVIA Y ECUADOR Y DE LA GRAN VICTORIA DE LA COMUNIDAD LATIA E IBEROAMERICANA DEL PUEBLITO PAISA. 7 PM. BERNIE GRANT CENTRE.  Town Hall Approach Road, N15 4RX.     http://www.berniegrantcentre.co.uk/p7.html
ACTIVIDADES PARA CONMEMORAR EL 205 ANIVERSARIO DEL DESEMBARCO DEL LIBERTADOR  MIRANDA EN  SURAMERICA (3-13 DE AGOSTO 1806) Y LOS ANIVERSARIOS DE LAS INDEPENDENCIAS DE BAHIA BRASIL (2 DE JULIO), VENEZUELA (5 DE JULIO), ARGENTINA (9 DE JULIO), COLOMBIA (20 DE JULIO),  PERU (28 DE JULIO), BOLIVIA (6 DE AGOSTO) Y ECUADOR (10 DE AGOSTO) Y LA VICTORIA DEL PUEBLITO PAISA
SABADO 13 DE AGOSTO. 7PM. BERNIE GRANT CENTRE. TOTTENHAM HIGH RD. N15 4RX.
SABADO 13 DE AGOSTO VEN A  LA GRAN FIESTA PARA CELEBRAR LA VICTORIA DEL PUEBLITO PAISA
Nuevo centro comercial latino e iberoamericano en Londres Excelente ubicación. Al frente de un Retail Centre donde están las más prestigiosas firmas británicas (Next, Argos, PC World, ASDA, etc.) y estacionamiento gratuito por 3 horas. A 1 minuto del metro, tren y estación de buses de Tottenham Hale. Contactarse al 07404703933
Friends of Fair Deal Discount Card We are very pleased to introduce the 'Friends of Fair Deal Discount Card' for use in shops in and around Seven Sisters. The card enables you to enjoy generous discounts offered by participating local businesses. You can get a card of your own when you spend £15 or more at Fair Deal Supermarket, and you can sign up to the   Newsletter   as well at the same time, and this way stay informed on all the new developments happening over the coming weeks and months. By using local shops, you keep your hard earned money in the local area, which allows the possibility for that money to stay in the area for longer. When there's more money around it means more ideas have the space and resources to emerge and develop, and at least have the possibility of blossoming. Thus making a more vibrant and exciting community to be in.
Legión británica
Se le dio nombre de   Legión Británica , o   legiones británicas , a un grupo de unidades militares formadas por voluntarios extranjeros, que lucharon bajo el mando del general   Simón Bolívar   en la guerra de independencia de   Venezuela ,   Colombia ,   Ecuador ,   Perú   y   Bolivia . Sus unidades formaron parte de los ejércitos de la desaparecida   Gran Colombia . Desde el año 1817, y en los cinco años siguientes, el número de contrataciones y enganches en los puertos de   Inglaterra   exceden de los seis mil hombres, 3   sin embargo desde las 53 naves que formaron sus expediciones se afirma que combatieron unos cinco mil trescientos soldados. Muchos de ellos eran veteranos del   Reino Unido , incluyendo a   Irlanda , y también se contaba con algunos veteranos   alemanes   al servicio de Inglaterra. El principal delegado para efectuar el reclutamiento de los voluntarios en   Londres   fue   Luis López Méndez . 4   La mayor parte de ellos habían participado en las guerras napoleónicas o la guerra británico estadounidense de 1812. Los voluntarios en la Legión Británica estaban motivados por una combinación tanto de motivos políticos y del beneficio de mercenarios. Bolívar por su parte esperaba elevar la moral de las tropas patriotas e incorporar más profesión militar en sus ejércitos. Las Legiones Británicas estuvieron compuestas por la 1ª Legión Británica, por la 2ª Legión Británica, y la Legión Irlandesa. Formaron los batallones de infantería Albión, Carabobo y Rifles, regimientos de caballería como los Húsares, aunque sus miembros también combatieron encuadrados en otras unidades americanas. Las unidades de voluntarios extranjeros usaron sus propias enseñas, como la   Union Jack 5   para los ingleses, o en el caso de la Legión irlandesa una bandera verde con el   clàrsach , símbolo de   Irlanda . 6   7 Las Legiones Británicas formaron una parte importante del ejército de Bolívar, quien las acreditó en la   batalla de Boyacá   proclamando " Esos Soldados liberadores son los hombres que merecen Estos laureles " , y en la   batalla de Carabobo   donde los describió como " Los Salvadores de mi Nación ". Sin embargo, a pesar de que algunos historiadores aclaman que ellos fueron posteriormente casi olvidados por los países en los que lucharon; hay muchas demostraciones de que esto es un craso error ya que inclusive hay batallones en los ejércitos suramericanos que con orgullo llevan sus nombres. Fuerzas de la las expediciones británicas que zarparon de   Londres   desde fines de   1817   a   1819   y llegaron a la   Gran Colombia : Cuando Simón Bolívar organizó la fuerza que debía acompañarlo durante   Campaña Libertadora de Nueva Granada , incluyó a la Legión Británica. El Coronel   James Rooke   estuvo al mando de 160 ó 200 hombres, quienes lucharon por la Independencia de la Gran Colombia. 4 Después de la   Batalla del Pantano de Vargas   el coronel Manrique, Jefe de Estado Mayor, dijo: «Todos los cuerpos del ejército se han distinguido, pero merecen una mención particular, (…) las Compañías Británicas. A las que su Excelencia el Presidente de la República, les ha concedido la “Estrella de los Libertadores”, en premio de su constancia y de su valor». 4 El coronel James Rooke fue herido por una bala en el brazo izquierdo. Éste tuvo que ser amputado y cuando se lo desprendieron, lo alzó con su mano derecha y gritó en castellano: «Viva la Patria!», El cirujano le preguntó en inglés: «Cuál Patria?, Irlanda o Inglaterra?», Rook meneó negativamente la cabeza y contestó: «La que me ha de dar sepultura». El Coronel Rooke murió días después de la amputación. La viuda del coronel Rooke, Anna Rooke, disfrutó de una pensión vitalicia y recibió una suma de dinero como indemnización. 4
LOS DOCUMENTOS SOBRE LA LEGION BRITANICA HAN SIDO TOMADOS DE LA WIKIPEDIA
Posted by
READ MORE...
at
04:00
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share to Pinterest
Labels:
7 agosto ,
isaac
bigio ,
london ,
londres ,
mes americano Analisis global ,
Minka News ,
month of southamerican independencies ,
pueblito paisa ,
ward corner
2 comments:
GREAT MILITARY BATTLES 7 August 2015 at 09:43 Warfare is a fascinating subject. Despite the dubious morality of using violence to achieve personal or political aims. It remains that conflict has been used to do just that throughout recorded history. Your article is very well done, a good read. Reply Delete GREAT MILITARY BATTLES 7 August 2015 at 09:43 Warfare is a fascinating subject. Despite the dubious morality of using violence to achieve personal or political aims. It remains that conflict has been used to do just that throughout recorded history. Your article is very well done, a good read. Reply Delete Add comment Load more...
Newer Post
Older Post
Home
Subscribe to:
Post Comments (Atom)
Followers
Todos los Articulos
▼
2011
(12)
►
September
(2)
▼
August
(10)
205 aniversario del Desembarco Libertador de Ameri...
[Portugues] Vandalismo de Londres se desdobra
14 agosto 2011
205 aniversario del Desembarco Libertador de Ameri...
205 aniversario del Desembarco Libertador de Ameri...
Especial: Isaac en el Correo
Edicion especial por el 190 aniversario de Peru
Julio, Mes de las Independencias Andinas
Month of South American Independences
MINKA NEWSDiario de Londres Castellano - Eng...
ISAAC BIGIO
READ MORE...
Isaac Bigio es un analista internacional graduado y postgraduado en historia y política económica en la London School of Economics, donde también ha enseñado administración y gobierno en América Latina. También ha recibido cursos en otras universidades inglesas donde se ha especializado en crisis, guerras, revoluciones y conflictos étnicos y sociales.
Ha sido reproducido en prácticamente todos los grandes periódicos masivos de habla española y portuguesa del mundo, además de en millares de medios en los 5 continentes. Produce una columna diaria para Correo, el único matutino hispanoamericano con 14 ediciones regionales, y otras publicaciones.
En 1997 obtuvo el premio a la excelencia de la mayor librería británica (Dillons, hoy Waterstone). Ha sido considerado por Yahoo Brasil y Google News como el columnista latinoamericano más publicado o leído.
Ha organizado todos los foros en español en las elecciones británicas. Fue homenajeado por el alcalde de Londres por haber liderado el reconocimiento de la minoría iberoamericana en la cuna del idioma inglés.
View my complete profile
Simple template. Powered by
Blogger .