How to Get Rid of Pest Mice FOR BEGINNERS: Exquisite Mice Recipes for Beginners :)
skip to main
|
skip to sidebar
How to Get Rid of Pest Mice FOR BEGINNERS
Over 10 years of mice pest control experience. Almost 70.000 rodents killed. Approximately 2.000 homes protected from mice infestation. Learn how to get rid of mice today... from a real (US based) rodent exterminator. Welcome to my mice control blog!
Exquisite Mice Recipes for Beginners :)
To a lot of people,
cooking and eating mice
is unthinkable. But in some
portions of the world , mice make up an important role in their native delicacies. In fact, in North America, people eat rat because of their nutritional value
(being rich in protein) , while in some parts of
Paris , mice are eaten because they taste like a crossbreed between chicken and pork. And yet, to the rest of the world, mice have become a stable source of meat that can be cooked in many different ways. Some restaurants even have
mice
in their menus. Thus, no matter how unthinkable it may seem to you, mice cooking and eating is actually an old practice and many people are so into it ever since.
The
common house mouse
has been very popular in
West Africa
that about 50% of all the locally produced meat there mouse or rat meat. To be exact with numbers, according to the
United Nations Food and Agricultural Organization , more than 250 thousand pounds of mouse and rat meat are sold in the market of
Accra
alone. So, here are some of the
recipes
that are quite popular among the
mice-eating people :
Grilled Mouse Bordeaux
The other name of this recipe, " Entrecote a la bordelaise ", sounds like any other classy food you can get from a high-class restaurant. Well, in fact, this
mouse meat recipe
is served in popular restaurants in Paris! The skin of the mouse is removed before it is eviscerated and glazed with an exquisite sauce made from a mixture of
olive oil , some
shallots
and other spices. The meat is then grilled over a fire made from old and broken wooden wine barrels.
Mouse Stew
Just like the meat in the
Mouse Bordeaux , the mouse is also skinned and eviscerated when cooking
Mouse Stew . The mouse's body is then split into two from the neck down to the tail bone and then battered with a mixture of
butter ,
peanut oil
and some spices. The battered meat is then deep-fried until it turns golden brown. The fried mouse meat will then be covered with an elegant sauce mixed from water, fresh tomatoes,
red peppers
and some other spices. For the meat to absorb the taste of the sauce, the entire dish is simmered for a couple of minutes and then served hot with
rice .
Stuffed Mouse Dormice
The mouse is skinned and eviscerated; head, tail and feet removed. The stuffing is made from ground meat
(can be mouse meat, pork, beef or chicken)
mixed with
pine nuts ,
garum
or
anchovy paste ,
asafoetida ,
homemade broth
and other spices. The mouse is stuffed with the stuffing and then sewn properly before it is cooked in the oven for a prescribed length of time.
Roasted Mice
The best mice to use for this recipe are the
field mice
primarily because of their meat is not as tender as that of a
house mouse , thus it is very fitting for a roasting recipe. The mice is skinned and eviscerated before it is skewered and roasted over hot coals. This recipe is best eaten with
Margarita .
Creamed Mouse
Just like all other recipes, the mouse should be cleaned out of the head, feet and tail. It should be skinned too and the rest of the internal organs should be removed. The meat is then
marinated
in a pot of a mixture of
ethyl alcohol
and some spices. After marinating for at least 2 hours, the meat should be dredge into a batter mixture consisting of flour, salt, pepper and some spices. The battered meat is then fried under a low fire for about 5 minutes before another cup of alcohol is added into the pan. Along with the alcohol, about 8 cloves of garlic are also added. The mixture is to be simmered for another 15 minutes before it is transferred to a pan of cream sauce. The meat is sautéed for another 10 minutes before it becomes ready for serving.
Mouse Enchiladas
The mouse should be skinned and eviscerated before it becomes fit for cooking. In this specific recipe, the mouse is cooked in a regular enchilada sauce made from chillis mixed with
liquor . Chile skin is supposed to be separated from chilli meat before it is mixed with the liquor and some fried onions. The
tortillas
are to be filled with the mouse meat mixed with the enchiladas sauce, rolled and then baked for about 15 minutes at 350 degrees
Fahrenheit .
You see, there are so many other
great-tasting mouse dishes
out there that are not mentioned in this article. Although it is really quite ironic how such wonderful dishes were derived from an animal most people consider as pest, still one truth remains, the people behind these recipes are really able to bring out another dimension of the mice. They may not be as main stream as chicken, beef and pork, but with all honesty, people who were able to eat game and veal can be outnumbered by those who have already
tasted mouse meat
at least once in their lifetimes.
We can't really say which cuisine is exotic or not simply because we do not eat certain kinds of foods. To some places, the normal food that we are eating may be categorized as exotic and the foods that we consider exotic might be categorized as normal to them. This diversity in taste and preference is what makes the different cuisines around the world unique.
Of course, I am not encouraging you to feed on the mouse that you see in your house simply for the purpose of establishing that a new predator
(that's you)
has just emerged in their habitat
(that's your house) . There are some findings too that suggest that improper preparation can also cause food poisoning. The
preparation of mouse meat
may not be as easy as you think, so if ever you are enticed to taste mouse meat one of these days, better go to a restaurant instead and just enjoy your experience without having to worry about other things.
All the best, Sergiu Zburatoru How to Get Rid of Mice FOR BEGINNERS
Newer Post
Older Post
Home
Archive
▼
2011
(38)
►
September
(2)
►
August
(3)
►
July
(1)
▼
June
(2)
Exquisite Mice Recipes for Beginners :)
Factors Affecting Mouse Infestation
►
March
(30)
►
2010
(8)
►
September
(8)
►
2009
(14)
►
May
(1)
►
April
(1)
►
March
(5)
►
February
(4)
►
January
(3)
Get Help From Our Mice Termination Experts
"If you build a better mousetrap, you will catch
better mice"
- George Gobel , American Comedian, 1919-1991
© Copyright 2009-2011
How to Get Rid of Mice FOR BEGINNERS Contact Me
|
Privacy Policy Powered by
Blogger .