Choose Days With Mori: Stars who were products of Singing Competitions (Part 4 of 4)
Choose Days With Mori
"...love is how you stay alive, even after you are gone." - Morrie Schwartz
Thursday, March 22, 2012
Stars who were products of Singing Competitions (Part 4 of 4)
Rachelle Ann Go - Champion
Star for the Night 2004
17. Rachelle Ann Go
(born August 31, 1986) is a
Filipina
singer ,
model
and occasional
actress .
Rachelle was born in Manila, Philippines and is of Chinese-Filipino descent. Fondly called Shin or Shin-Shin by her friends, Rachelle's interest in singing started at a very young age. Her father predicted even before she turned a year old that she was destined to be a Star. When she turned seven, she underwent vocal training and lessons and, by the time she was nine, she participated in her very first amateur singing competition and won the first prize, belting out Jennifer Holliday's "And I Am Telling You," in spite of being the youngest contender.
She became a veteran of singing competitions and has consistently won several contests. Her television debut on "Eat Bulaga!," a hit noon-time variety show, happened when she was just eleven. She competed in the show's contest "Birit Baby" where young aspirants belt out vocally challenging songs. She ended up receiving the runner-up award but was highly praised for her take on a Céline Dion classic, "All By Myself".
In 2003, along with a thousand hopefuls, Rachelle auditioned for the second season of the Philippines' leading talent search, Search for a Star. Rachelle breezed through the preliminary rounds and found herself among the top twelve contenders vying for the coveted recording prize during the finale. On March 13, 2004 Rachelle was announced as the second grand champion, following Sarah Geronimo, singing her rendition of Mariah Carey's "Through the Rain".
Rachelle is also a talent of VIVA Entertainment Group and became part of ABS-CBN variety shows such as ASAP and ASAP Fanatic from 2004 to 2010.
Go graduated from La Immaculada Concepcion School in Pasig. She took up her college life in
San Beda College
taking up BS-Business Administration. She later became Ms. San Beda in 2004. She joined the cast of
Party Pilipinas
in 2010.
Regine Velasquez
Champion - Ang
Bagong Kampeon 1984
18. Regina Encarnacion Ansong Velasquez-Alcasid
(born April 22, 1970), known as
Regine Velasquez , is a
Filipino
singer, actress, record producer and TV host. She won the 1989 Asia Pacific Singing Contest in
Hong Kong , and is widely known for possessing an extensive vocal range.
Velasquez is the first
Asian
artist to stage a solo concert at the
Carnegie Hall
in
New York , as part of Carnegie Hall's centennial-year concert series.
In 1994,
Polygram Records
produced her first Asia-released album, "Listen Without Prejudice".
It is considered as Velasquez' most successful album to date, selling more than 700,000 copies in Asia. The album has sold over 100,000 units in the
Philippines , 300,000 units in China and 20,000 in Thailand.
She has collaborated with artists such as
Paul Anka ,
David Hasselhoff ,
98 Degrees ,
Brian McKnight ,
Mandy Moore ,
Ronan Keating ,
Stephen Bishop ,
Jim Brickman ,
Peabo Bryson ,
Jeffrey Osborne ,
Dave Koz ,
Grasshopper ,
Coco Lee ,
Michel Legrand ,
David Pomeranz ,
Eduardo Capetillo ,
Fernando Carrillo , and
Billy Crawford . "In Love With You", a duet with
Jacky Cheung , landed the top spot in
MTV Asia 's Top 20 Asian Videos in 2000.
In 2000, She performed the country's millennial theme
Written In The Sand
together with 2,000 children in the top-roof of
The Peninsula Manila , televised in 67 broadcast networks throughout the world to coincide with midnight in Manila for the
BBC's
millennium special
2000 Today .
She has also embarked on several television and film projects, receiving a Best Actress award for her portrayal of a
mentally challenged
woman in a
Maalaala Mo Kaya
episode entitled "Lobo". Velasquez formed IndiMusic (iMusic), a record label partnered with Bella Tan's Universal Records.
She is currently managed by Aria Productions.
Velasquez's her first movie role was in the film
The Untouchable Family . She soon ventured into comedy films. She was cast in the 1988 film
Pik Pak Boom . She then co-starred in the flick
Elvis and James .
Velasquez' returned to the cinema in 1996 for her first lead role in the film
Wanted Perfect Mother . Also in that same year, she was one of three lead actresses in the musical comedy
Do Re Mi
alongside
Donna Cruz
and
Mikee Cojuangco . Despite being part of the movie, Velasquez' vocals were not part in recording of the movie's soundtrack, as it was an then-upcoming VIVA Records singer named Krystine, who sang vocals on her part.
In the movie version, Velasquez was able to record her vocals just in time before the movie was released.
In 1998's
Honey Nasa Langit Na Ba Ako , she played a ghost who died in a car accident days before her wedding day. Also, Velasquez co-starred with
Aga Muhlach
in the romantic film
Dahil May Isang Ikaw . Later, in 2000, she starred in
Kailangan Ko'y Ikaw
with
Robin Padilla . In 2001 she starred in
Pangako Ikaw Lang
which earned her a
Box-Office Queen
award from the
Guillermo Mendoza Memorial Scholarship Foundation .
Velasquez acted in two more romantic films in 2002 and 2003;
Ikaw Lamang, Hanggang Ngayon
and
Pangarap Ko Ang Ibigin Ka . In December 2003, she appeared in
Captain Barbell .
Velasquez returned to the romance genre in 2006 and 2007 with
Till I Met You
and
Paano Kita Iibigin .
In June 2008, she was the voice of Urduja in the
animated
film
Urduja .
In 2009, Velasquez, conceptualized the story for
OMG (Oh, My Girl!)
and she will appear in a cameo role as a production assistant.
Velasquez is currently filming Mrs. Recto, an indie film under the direction of Director Dante Nico Garcia. Her third reunion movie with Aga Muhlach,
Of All The Things .
Velasquez is the first child of Teresita and Gerardo Velasquez, born in
Tondo, Metro Manila , Philippines on April 22, 1970. Her family moved to Hinundayan, Southern
Leyte , where Velasquez studied at the Hinundayan Central School. Music figured largely in her early development; her father always sang
Frank Sinatra
songs to the children and her mother accompanied on guitar. Velasquez always loved music and even before she could read, she was singing along with the family.
Her father signed her up for small local singing competitions. He helped train her voice by having her sing while neck-deep in the ocean. Her mother also helped by teaching her how to move on stage and interpret songs. At the age of six, Velasquez participated in a nationally-televised amateur singing competition, The Tita Betty's Children's Show. Her piece, "Buhat Nang Kita'y Makilala" (Since I Met You), won third place.
Velasquez continued to compete in more singing competitions in small towns around the country. By nine, Velasquez and her family had moved to Balagtas, Bulacan, where she studied at Balagtas Central School. She later studied at St. Lawrence Academy, where she won Vocal Solo and Vocal Duet awards for her school at the annual BULPRISA (Bulacan Private School Association) competition. At fourteen, Velasquez entered the senior division of
Ang Bagong Kampeon
(The New Champion), a nationally-televised singing competition, hosted by Bert "Tawa" Marcelo and
Pilita Corrales . Her father suggested that she audition with "Saan Ako Nagkamali" (Where Did I Go Wrong). She won for eight straight weeks and became the first grand champion of the show. The show's musical director, Dominic Salustiano, suggested her winning piece,
George Benson 's "In Your Eyes". She won a contract with OctoArts, recording the single "Love Me Again" as
Chona Velasquez , her nickname at the time.
At the behest of friend and fellow OctoArts recording artist,
Pops Fernandez , Velasquez guested on the
GMA
7 Variety TV show, 'Penthouse Live', on February 16, 1986.
Martin Nievera , Pops' husband and co-host of the show, suggested to Velasquez that she drop the name "Chona" and use Regine as her screen name. That year, her father resigned from his job as a construction estimator to fully attend to his daughter's blossoming career.
Viva Records signed Velasquez to a contract in 1987, releasing her self-titled debut album
Regine . The album contained the songs "Kung Maibabalik Ko Lang," "Isang Lahi, " and "Urong Sulong." Her first regularly televised performances were musical variety shows with ensemble casts, such as
ABS-CBN 's Triple Treat and the Sunday variety show Teen Pan Alley. Velasquez and Alley's
Janno Gibbs
continued to collaborate throughout the years, creating the musical Kenkoy at Rosing, recording the cover song "Magkasuyo Buong Gabi," and performing duets in concert.
In 1989, Velasquez was chosen to represent the Philippines in the
Asia-Pacific Singing Contest
held in Hong Kong. On Dececember 23, 1989, Velasquez won the grand prize with " You'll Never Walk Alone " from
Carousel
and " And I Am Telling You I'm Not Going " from
Dreamgirls . After the competition, media started calling her " Asia's Songbird ."
Velasquez and
Ogie Alcasid
announced their engagement at
Party Pilipinas
on August 8, 2010 after 7 years.
By December 22 of the same year, Velasquez married long-time partner Ogie Alcasid in Terrazas de Punta Fuego in Nasugbu Batangas.
In April 2011, She and her husband confirmed the news of her pregnancy through the same afternoon-variety show,
Party Pilipinas . In November 8, 2011, Velasquez gave birth to her and husband Ogie Alcasid's first born, Nathaniel James Velasquez Alcasid at the Makati Medical Center.
After her nine-month career break, Velasquez made a comeback in her Sunday variety show
Party Pilipinas
on 12 February 2012 to promote her Valentine concert. Along with co-hosts Jaya, Rachelle Ann Go, Kyla and Jonalyn Viray, Velasquez did an impromptu/unrehearsed performance to give tribute to one of their biggest music influences, American singer
Whitney Houston
who died hours before the show started. Velasquez sang a medley of Houston's hits such as
All the Man That I Need ,
The Greatest Love of All
and
I Will Always Love You
together with the other singers who also gave a tribute.
Prior to her performance, Velasquez gave testimony on the influence Ms Houston made on her, "The songs of this diva shaped and inspired the singer that I am today, to commemorate her, this is my tribute to Whitney Houston" "I’m deeply saddened by her passing. She influenced me, especially when I was just starting. I’m a fan and will always be one. Rest in peace, Ms Houston.."
As the part of her comeback, Velasquez had a sold out concert together with her husband Ogie Alcasid entitled
Mr. & Mrs. A
on February 14, 2012 (Valentines Day) in
Smart Araneta Coliseum , The concept of the show is based on Velasquez' experience in wonderful and challenging sides of marriage and being a mother. The guests are
Dingdong Dantes ,
Kyla ,
Angeline Quinto ,
Erik Santos
and
Vice Ganda .
Sarah Geronimo - Champion
Star for the Night 2003
19. Sarah Asher Tuazon Geronimo
is a Filipino recording artist, actress and dancer. Geronimo started her official debut in show business after having won the
Star for a Night
singing competition and released her first album
Popstar: A Dream Come True
in 2003.
Following her debut, she recorded six more albums:
Sweet Sixteen
in 2004,
Becoming
in 2006,
Taking Flight
in 2007,
Just Me
in 2008,
Music and Me ,
Christmas Girl
in 2009 and
One Heart
in 2011.
Geronimo has had a series of concerts at the
Araneta Coliseum
in Manila and several worldwide concert tours, often done in conjunction with a new album or movie appearance.
Geronimo appears on television with the musical variety show
ASAP . She became the lead actress in the drama
Bituing Walang Ningning . She had her film debut in a leading role in
A Very Special Love
which had a sequel,
You Changed My Life .
Sarah Asher Tuazon Geronimo was born on July 25, 1988 in Santa Cruz,
Manila ,
Philippines , to Delfin Geronimo, a retired
Philippine Long Distance Telephone Company
(PLDT) employee, and Divina Geronimo, who ran a
beauty parlor
from the family home. She studied at Dominican School Manila. Geronimo’s first performance was in a mall show when she was two years old.
At the age of four, she made her first appearance on national television and was a member of the children's television show
Pen-Pen de Sarapen
for two years.
At six, she performed at a short concert at Isetann Cinema Complex on Recto Avenue in Manila.
She sang for
Pope John Paul II
during his visit to the Philippines in 1995, when she was six.
At the age of eight, her father enrolled Geronimo at the Center for Pop Music Philippines, where she received her first formal music and voice lessons.
Geronimo performed in hotel lounges, on campuses, in shopping malls, and on a few TV shows. Around this time, she was part of the cast of the
ABS-CBN
children's show
Ang TV .
At the age of nine, she joined the cast of the TV show
NEXT .
She also played a cameo role in Star Cinema’s
Sarah, Ang Munting Prinsesa.
In November of 2011, Geronimo made a movie again with
Gerald Anderson
in
Won't Last A Day Without You
which earned 20 million in its firs day of opening. Geronimo
signed an exclusive one-year contract with
ABS-CBN , it states her future projects and commitments such as having a weekly solo show, an extension as a performer in
ASAP Rocks , and a movie with
John Lloyd Cruz
for the third time.
In February 2009, Geronimo made a movie again with John Lloyd Cruz in
You Changed My Life , the
sequel of
A Very Special Love
.
The film’s total theatrical earnings earned over P240 million and holds the record for the
highest grossing Filipino movie made .
Geronimo is having her solo weekly musical-variety show every Sunday night titled
Sarah G. Live!
and her movie with
John Lloyd Cruz
is in production. Geronimo is set to have her major concert on her birthday at soon to be opened
Mall of Asia Arena .
Sheryn Regis - 1st Runner-Up
Star in a Million 2004
20. Sheryn Mae Poncardas Regis
(born November 26, 1980), better known as simply
Sheryn Regis , is a
Filipina
pop
singer, composer, host and actress. Sheryn was a consistent top scorer of
Star in a Million , where she eventually ended as runner-up to
Erik Santos
in January 2004. She is a member of
ABS-CBN
homegrown talent,
Star Magic .
Sheryn was born and raised in Ninong's Best, Mabini St.,
Davao City
(Region 11), to Bernardo and Daisy Regis. She is the eldest of three kids, and has two siblings, Elton and Joseph. Regis' mother guided her in singing. At the age of 2, Sheryn was able to hum and sing simple tunes as her mom recalls. Her first and favorite contest piece was Ms. Kuh Ledesma’s “Dito Ba,” which Sheryn learned at the age of five. At seven, Sheryn started joining amateur singing contests. Her winnings were used to buy tapes of Shirley Bassey’s hits for her next contest piece. And at the age of eight, Sheryn won her first grand prize by singing Ms. Tillie Moreno’s “Saan Ako Nagkamali?"
Aside from singing, Regis offered voice lessons to children while in high school. During her college years, Sheryn was able to finish her B.S. Secondary Education, with a major in English at
Cebu Normal University . It was during these years, too, that she was exposed to theater acting and chorale singing. It gave her a chance to travel abroad, and to perform for Filipino communities in Canada and in the USA. Both Mr. Leo Martinez and Ms. Gina Alajar served as workshop mentors. In 1999, she was awarded as the "Best Interpreter" at the Cebu Pop Music Festival (a songwriting festival), and the original composition that she sang also won the Grand Prize.
Regis worked as a lounge singer at the Cebu Plaza Hotel where she met Earl Echiverri (cousin of Caloocan City mayor Enrico "Recom" Echiverri). In 2002, they exchanged vows and had a daughter nicknamed “Sweety” the following year.
In 2003, Sheryn Regis entered
ABS-CBN ’s
Star in a Million . She was the consistent top finalist from first episode tell they only remain 3 contestant and was dubbed the
Power Belter . She ended up as the first runner-up and texter’s choice awardee during the Grand Champion Night last January 3, 2004. After this, Regis went back to Cebu, and was later offered a recording contract by ABS-CBN and another recording company. She accepted ABS-CBN’s offer.
Sheryn has become part of different variety shows,
Most Requested Show
and
ASAP .
Sheryn hosted the now-defunct
Search for the Star in a Million Season 2
with fellow champs Erik, Rachelle Ann, and Mark. She is also the host of
Little Big Star Cebu , which was reportedly ranked as the fourth top-rating show in
ABS-CBN 's Nationwide Charts.
In October 2007, Sheryn was given her first major dual acting role as a fairy godmother and an evil witch who are twin sisters in
Love Spell 's Cindyrella, starring
Kim Chiu
and
Gerald Anderson . Sheryn expressed her excitement as she is given the opportunity to dabble into acting and use her past experience in theater. The series ran through early January 2008.
Early 2008, Sheryn Regis was chosen to be part of the cast of
Utoy
with Dolphy and Makisig Morales as main stars.
On June of the same year, she was reported to be part of the final cast of
I Love Betty La Fea , ABS-CBN's remake of
Betty La Fea , which stars Bea Alonzo on the lead role. Sheryn played the role of Kylie in the series.
Sheryn was ones part of
ASAP
every Sunday in segments such as ASAP Music Room and Full Circle. .
Posted by
MoRi_2009
at
6:15 AM
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share to Pinterest
No comments:
Post a Comment
Newer Post
Older Post
Home
Subscribe to:
Post Comments (Atom)
Feedjit
Feedjit Live Blog Stats
About Me
MoRi_2009
Lower Antipolo City, Rizal, Philippines
I am Mori P. married @ age 44 to Mochi -
a lovely 28 year old single mom. I was a former Overseas Filipino Worker for 7 years - in a small island called the Kingdom of Bahrain - but now back in the Philippines to take a slice in the pie of a thriving
design & build business. Reviving my passion in writing and photography through this blog. A big
fan of the late Steve Jobs. Loves playing Ipad apps. Has a strong charisma with kids, they adore me everywhere I go. Considers people my friends those
who don't sugarcoat the truth; who tells me things upright whether good or bad. Don't walk out on negative people...Run!
View my complete profile
Stills
Vested motive
Memories of our I do's
SDE video by Jake Olaso
Choice cut photos by Ruffa+Mike
Blog Archive
▼
2012
(22)
►
May
(1)
►
April
(4)
▼
March
(12)
Giant Networks' Top 10 Leading Men
My 10 silly beliefs
Stars who were products of Singing Competitions (P...
Stars who were products of Singing Competitions (P...
Stars who were products of Singing Competitions (P...
Stars who were products of Singing Competitions (P...
Company branding entries
Push your limits
My today thoughts on things around
Save the World
Music playing on my background
Worth waiting for
►
February
(5)
Blogs I follow
Missed Connections
Whigby greeting cards
2 years ago
The Cre8ive
I've moved!
2 years ago
Followers
My Blog Visitors
ClusterMaps
Picture Window template. Template images by
andynwt . Powered by
Blogger .