Japan Hero
skip to main
|
skip to sidebar
Japan Hero
Kamen Rider Masked Rider Guyver Japan's Giant Monsters Kamen Riders Mazinger Metal Heroes Moldiver Project A-Ko Ranma 1/2 Sailor Moon Sazan Eyes Sentai Silent Möbius Steam Detectives Tekkaman Tetsuwan Atom Ultraman
Friday, August 15, 2008
Mazinger Z
Z Mazinger is a retelling of the
Mazinger Z
story by
Go Nagai , mixing it with ancient Greek mythology. Here, Greek myths are the human testimony of the epic battles between robots piloted by extraterrestrials. The appearance of the robot remains similar to the original Mazinger, but with a more modern look. Set in contemporary times, the battle of the Gods (extraterrestrials thought to be Gods by the ancient Greeks) continues.
Hades
(in mythology, the ruler of the underworld, embodied by
Dr. Hell ) has returned to attack the Earth and exterminate the human race, and to protect it
Zeus
sends a robot born from him, Z Mazinger (this is why the Z of Zeus is before the name and not after it as in Mazinger Z, where it's not related to the Greek god). The robot is given by chance to a student called
Koji Kabuto
(the classic Mazinger hero) and together with
Aphrodite
(piloted by
Sayaka ) and other classic Mazinger characters such as
Tetsuya
he defends the planet. Many other gods are involved, and their relationships of love and envy are part of the plot.
Posted by
tendou
at
12:36 PM
No comments:
The Guyver
A
college
student named Sean Barker discovers that his girlfriend Mizky Segawa's father Dr. Tetsu Segawa, a researcher for the mysterious Chronos Corporation, has stolen an alien device known as "The Guyver," from Chronos, which fuses with him and causes him to be covered in a suit of
bio -armor. The president of Chronos, Fulton Balcus, wants the Guyver back and sends his mutant henchmen, the Zoanoids, led by Lisker, to steal it back. They kidnap Mizky and take her back to Chronos, and Sean is seemingly killed when Lisker pulls the control medallion from his forehead, causing him to melt into a puddle of green slime and die. But the Guyver rebuilds Sean's body from a cellular level and resurrects him to save Mizky and kill the evil Zoanoids before finally facing Balcus himself, who transforms into a giant dinosaur-like monster (dubbed the Zoalord) to fight Sean.
The term
Guyver
is a word coined by manga artist
Yoshiki Takaya . It can refer to:
Bio Booster Armor Guyver
- Manga series by Yoshiki Takaya Guyver: Out of Control
- Animated feature film based on the manga, produced
1986 Guyver (OVA)
- 12 episode OVA series also based on the manga, produced in
1989 Guyver: The Bioboosted Armor (anime)
- 26 episode anime series also based on the manga, produced in
2005
There were also two live action
Guyver movies
made in the US that were also based on the manga series.
The Guyver
- Live action movie, produced in
1991 The Guyver 2 [1]
- Live action movie, produced in
1994
Guyver
are a West Australian band.
Posted by
tendou
at
5:15 AM
No comments:
Ultraman
Ultraman
( ウルトラマン ,
Urutoraman )
is a
fictional character
featured in
tokusatsu , or "special effects" television programs. Ultraman made his debut in the
tokusatsu
SF / kaiju / superhero
TV series,
Ultraman , a follow-up to the television series
Ultra Q . The show was produced by
Tokyo Broadcasting System
and
Tsuburaya Productions , and was broadcast on
Tokyo Broadcasting System (TBS) July 17 ,
1966
to
April 9 ,
1967 , with a total of 39 episodes (40, counting the pre-premiere special that aired on
July 10 ,
1966 ).
from
Although
Ultraman
is the first series to feature an Ultra-being, this is actually the
second
Ultra Series .
Ultra Q
was the first. A major pop culture phenomenon in Japan, the show has spawned dozens of imitators as well as numerous sequels and remakes, which continue to be popular today.
To distinguish him from subsequent Ultra Warriors, Ultraman is referred to as the original Ultraman
( 初代ウルトラマン ,
Shodai Urutoraman ) , the first Ultraman, Ultraman Hayata (a reference to his host's surname) or as simply Man.
Posted by
tendou
at
5:06 AM
No comments:
Kamen Rider Faiz
This article is about the character.
For the series, see
Kamen Rider 555
Kamen Rider Faiz
( 仮面ライダーファイズ ,
Kamen Raidā Faizu )
(Φ) is a
fictional
suit of high-tech
power armor
seen in the
2003 -
2004
Japanese
television series Kamen Rider 555 . It is the first of the Rider Gears seen in the series. Its motief is based on the Greek letter (Φ), and a
Grasshopper .
The Faiz Gear was the second set of
Kamen Rider
Gear developed by the
Smart Brain
Corporation to protect the
Orphenoch
King. The Faiz Gear had less power than the original
Delta Gear , but had a much greater functionality.
Like most of the Rider Gears that Smart Brain developed, the Faiz Gear can only be worn by Orphenochs or humans implanted with
Orphenoch
DNA . Transforming into Kamen Rider Faiz burns Orphenoch DNA, so humans who have been implanted with this DNA will quickly run out and no longer be able to use the Faiz Gear (and probably die). Orphenochs may use the Faiz Gear more often (in their human form only), but their DNA breaks down with continued use, and they will die.
Its first known, and primary wearer is Takumi Inui (Wolf Orphenoch). Other known wearers include,
Akai
(Cactus Orphenoch),
Naoya Kaido
(Snake Orphenoch), and Takuma Itsurou (Centipede Orphenoch). Kusaka Masato ( Kamen Rider Kaixa ) used the gear once to trick Kiba and Takumi into thinking they had been betrayed by the other. During the short time Takumi was going through a crisis, Yuji Kiba (Horse Orphenoch) temporarily used the Gear until he returned. By the end of the series, the Gear was still intact.
Posted by
tendou
at
4:24 AM
No comments:
Japan Hero goes wide in Asia
"Hero," Fuji TV's suspense/drama about a rebel prosecutor that will open in Japan on Sept. 8, is also getting a wide release in Asia. The pic, which stars Japanese megastar Takuya Kimura in the prosecutor role, will open in South Korea on Oct. 25 on 250 screens -- a local record for a Japanese pic. The pic will bow in Hong Kong on Oct. 18, as well as in Taiwan, Singapore and Malaysia. "Hero" will open on 20 screens or more in each of these territories, a large number given the small local market share of Japanese pics. The pic will not be dubbed on the assumption that fans will want to hear Kimura's voice. "Hero" is based on a Fuji TV series, starring Kimura as a rule-breaking delinquent-turned-prosecutor, that racked up stupendous 30-plus ratings for every episode when it was broadcast from January to March 2001. Instead of ordering another season, however, Fuji dropped the show for five years, reviving it for a special that aired in July 2006 -- and also scored over 30. By this time, Fuji producer Chihiro Kameyama -- the mastermind behind the smash "Bayside Shakedown" cop thriller franchise and many other hit films, was developing a "Hero" feature. Set for release on 470 screens on Sept. 8, "Hero" is expected to equal or surpass the spectacular take of the two "Bayside Shakedown" films, the second of which grossed Y17.35 billion ($151 million) in 2003, more than that year's "Harry Potter" entry. In August, Kimura signed to star in
the Anh Hung Tran psychothriller "I Come With the Rain," a pan-Asian production that is expected to raise his regional profile. He also appeared in Wong Kar-wai's mood romance "2046," as well Yoji Yamada's period drama "Love and Honor," a major hit for Shochiku in 2006.
Posted by
tendou
at
4:14 AM
No comments:
Home
Subscribe to:
Posts (Atom)
Blog Archive
▼
2008
(5)
▼
August
(5)
Mazinger Z
The Guyver
Ultraman
Kamen Rider Faiz
Japan Hero goes wide in Asia
About Me
tendou
Look so shy
View my complete profile