Out of the Closet, Into the Streets: The Beauty of the Songbird
Out of the Closet, Into the Streets
Confessions, Views and Commentaries
Thursday, February 17, 2011
The Beauty of the Songbird
Since its her 25th year in the Showbiz Industry... as an avid fan, it is my responsibility to create a masterpiece for my one and only SONGBIRD,
Regina Encarnacion Ansong Velasquez...
Ever since I was a child, I have always been an aficionado of the Disney Princesses because they possess and hold an incomparable beauty and glamour. Each Disney Princess has there own exceptional persona and character that really rendered my interests in them.
However I was not only stricken with their beauty and glamour but also I learned to love the different stories that each princess have gone through. Such as Princess Aurora’s 100 years of deep sleep, Princess Ariel’s venture to human hood, Princess Snow White’s apple poisoning and most of all the story of Cinderella. Every story made me realized the other side of beauty, its true sense and meaning.
What is it? Are there objective standards of beauty? Or is beauty in the eye of the beholder?  Must a person be beautiful to be considered great?  What is the effect of experiencing beauty in life? I have chosen a very interesting topic, as I believe that her story encompasses my understanding of what Beauty really is.
Before we even heard and knew of her Cinderella story, there was just her phenomenal voice of which was never heard of in the Philippine music history. It became all the more mind-blowing, astonishing and extraordinary when one beheld the singer, a young woman whose delicate frame and features contradict her fragile aura. The infirmity vanishes from the first note of a song and in its place, an astounding blend of deep emotion and perceptible splendor is experienced. That beauty is Regine Velasquez.
photo: pinoyexchange.com Regine also known affectionately as the Asia's Songbird around the world is a true story of rags to riches. Few people who have heard her amazing voice can say that they have never heard her equally inspiring life story. Much like a fairy tale, her humble beginnings in Bulacan have not dismayed this naturally talented singer in surpassing the performance calibers of formally trained singers of her generation. She started to sing at the age of four and upon discovering her incredible singing talent her parents supported her love for music. At age ten, Regine could be found standing neck-deep in the beach singing. It was to train her to use her diaphragm in singing and to strengthen her lungs. Teresita her mom taught her how to evoke emotion while Mang Gerry her dad helped her develop a technique in reaching high notes. She started joining singing contests at the age of ten but triumph was not always on her side. She entered 200 singing contests but only won 67 of them. She got tired of joining such contests but this didn’t stop her because it is their source of income. Her dad quit his job just to support her and be with her in every singing contest she joined. This was her motivation; she strived harder and harder to attain what she has now and what she has achieved. The year 1989 was the start of her booming career especially after winning the Asia Pacific Singing Contest, which was held in Hong Kong at the same year. This contest gave her the coveted title of Asia’s Songbird that gave her celebrity status and made her an Asian superstar. That same year, she collaborated a song with Jacky Cheung entitled "In Love With You," which reached the MTV Asia and Channel V’s top 20 music charts. She has also collaborated with artists such as
Paul Anka ,
David Hasselhoff ,
98 Degrees ,
Brian McKnight ,
Mandy Moore ,
Ronan Keating ,
Stephen Bishop ,
Jim Brickman ,
Peabo Bryson ,
Jeffrey Osborne ,
Dave Koz
,
Lea Salonga ,
Grasshopper ,
Coco Lee ,
Michel Legrand ,
David Pomeranz ,
Eduardo Capetillo
and
Billy Crawford . More blessings came along her way; some of her albums had good response from neighbor Asian countries achieving triple platinum, 2 double platinum and 2 golds from
China ,
Singapore ,
Malaysia ,
Indonesia ,
Hong Kong ,
Taiwan , Thailand ,
Vietnam , Japan and South Korea.
Year after year, Regine gets better by being versatile in her craft. She started to juggle her singing, film, television, and advertising careers. Both foreign and local fans supported her all this years and a manifestation of this are the awards she has received; 2 star awards, 1 Famas, 2 MTV Asia, 3 MTV Phil, 11 Awit awards, 1 Katha Awards, 9 aliw awards, 15 Guillermo Mendoza Memorial Scholarship Foundation. As a fan,
I believe that she as a performer and person empowers and allows others to dream, just like what she did before. This is the best part about her. Every time she performs onstage, every time she sings a song, she reminds all of us that there was a time when it seemed like no one wanted to listen. But it is that past that makes her who she is today; strong, generous, human, pained and blessed.
photo:abante.com.ph
People might think that her achievements swollen her so much pride and that she has the “diva” attitude or that she became very conceited and self righteous but I can attest that Regine is still the humble girl from Bulacan. How can I say this? Regine staged numerous benefit concerts for different foundations such as the Bantay Bata and GMA ‘s Kapuso foundation. Also, her
MTV Asia
special entitled Speak Your Mind was nominated for the
UNICEF
Child Rights Awards. The production was highly commended for its agendum on child welfare, documenting the plight of homeless children swarming the streets of Metro Manila, in an effort to protect and safeguard their rights. Also, she has helped a lot of foundations such as the Singapore's National Kidney Foundation, the Hong Kong AIDS Foundation, the Hong Kong Philharmonic Orchestra, and the Philippines' Bridges School for Special Children. That is why, for me
Regine is at her greatest every time she decides to be small. When she displays her vulnerability and her homegrown valiance, she shimmers like a red diamond. Everything in her life blended so well, it was like everything was meant for her.
She has uncountable awards and honors but we see that her charms and graces have all blossomed along with her talent, but her beauty and talent is not all about the prestigious awards, honors, fame, and wealth that she acquired. Regine embodies a beauty that is seen only in few people. Her physical beauty is admired by her legions of fans all around the globe, from her gorgeous face, expressive eyes, sexy lips and a body of a goddess. But what makes Asia’s Songbird more attractive? More dazzling? And more divine? It’s her inner beauty, her benign heart, her down to earth persona, her unconditional love to the Filipino people, her patriotism to her motherland, her love and passion for her craft, her being a true person and her just being simply beautiful in her own right. That makes her beautiful! That is the Beauty of a Songbird!
Labels:
asian ,
beauty ,
philippine pride ,
regine velasquez ,
songbird
at
11:30 AM
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share to Pinterest
Posted by
Out if the Closet, Into the Streets
4 comments:
musingan February 18, 2011 at 9:46 AM I saw her singing live once... the best... Reply Delete Out if the Closet, Into the Streets February 19, 2011 at 3:22 AM i agree... ive been to several of her concerts.. she was ecstatic!!! really a phenomenal singer! Reply Delete Lireyn September 3, 2011 at 12:16 PM That was one great blog!! Truly amazing!! Regine is really phenomenal! Perfect! Reply Delete jun_md01 December 12, 2011 at 11:13 PM i just miss her so much.... love you ate regine! Reply Delete Add comment Load more...
Newer Post
Older Post
Home
Subscribe to:
Post Comments (Atom)
Who am I?
Out if the Closet, Into the Streets
Im straightforward, I speak my mind out and most of all... Fierce in every way... Are you ready?
View my complete profile
Subscribe To
Posts
Atom
Posts
Comments
Atom
Comments
Popular Posts
A Different Take on Ferdinand Marcos and Ninoy Aquino
The anniversary of EDSA 1 is fast approaching, and I believe that this article written by Nemenzo, Gemma from Filipinas (August 2008) is ver...
The Best Speech Ive Ever Read....
Over the years, I have been a fan of prominent political personalities in the Philippines, of their wit and their wisdom in dealing with thi...
Untold Celebrity Stories
#2
It Could Happen Only in the Movies
These two women move in different circles but they seem to lead
parallel lives.
Barbara C. Gonzale...
Celebrity Untold Stories # 1
I was browsing the internet, bored doing nothing... I came pass this website showing untold philippine celebrity stories... As I was reading...
Regine Velasquez - The Diva, The Icon, The Asia's Songbird
Hindi ko maitatanggi ang malaking paghanga ko sa pinakamagaling na mangaawit na nabuhay sa buong kasaysayan ng Pilipinas, si Regine Velasque...
Regine Velasquez - The Diva, The Icon, The Asia's Songbird (part2)
Eto na ang pangalawang parte ng aking blog tungkol kay Regine Velasquez. Sa unang parte ng blog ko ay ipinakita ko kung paano pinuri at hina...
News For Sale: The Corruption of the Philippine Media
photo: emilyjaneolson.wordpress.com
The article entitled, ““News For Sale: The Corruption of the Philippine M...
The Beauty of the Songbird
Since its her 25th year in the Showbiz Industry... as an avid fan, it is my responsibility to create a masterpiece for my one and only SONGB...
Philippines, a Finalist in the New 7 Wonders of Nature
As of this very moment, while doing this blog entry. There are only
154 days
10
hours Left to Vote until 11.11.2011 Instead of b...
My Battle Cry
photo by: cheshirecatstudios.com
Damn the people who bastardized others amelioration a...
What I Read and Who I Follow
Songbird Source!
Regine Velasquez ICONIC The Philippine Star Supreme
-
October 24 The Philippine Star Supreme ICONIC Songbird
Photography by Mark Nicdao Make Up by Songbird herself Styling by Veron
Gonzalez Hair by Jonathan Ve...
1 day ago
(,") BLOGS NG PINOY (",)
Geeky Promdi, The
-
Blog URL: http://www.thegeekypromdi.com
Author: Erik Felipe
Blog Category: Computers & Gadgets, Hobbies & Interests, Life & Lifestyle,
Personal, Technology...
6 days ago
Go, celebrate the gift of life!
Beyond the Senses
-
Go ahead, flip the switch: Find some place quiet. It is always good to sit
in silence and listen to that small voice deep inside of you. (This humble
horse...
4 months ago
Three Hand Star
Wishful Thinking
-
Sometimes, when I walk alone in a mall, I notice the small and young
families. Those families with seemingly young and happy parents with their
young kids....
7 months ago
JolOgs's Backpack
-
Tadaaa!!!
It's been so long my dear blog! haha!
bigla lang kitang naalala sa gitna ng napakaraming trabahong nakatambak sa
harap ako.. at eto
nagpapapansi...
1 year ago
Ang dami mong pasumangil sa buhay
The Story Circle Magic Workshop
-
Do you want to know how they do it?
Do want to learn the basic and advance move in sleight of hand?
Do you want to do magic using Science?
Do you want to ...
2 years ago
Chants and Rants of the Lady in Black and White
Leaving
-
I am now leaving this blog. Actually, I'm just transferring to a different
blog name. All this blog's contents will be transferred there and that'll
be the...
2 years ago
I S T A M B A Y
Lipat na me. Palo na u
-
Marami pong salamat sa mga nagbasa, kumoment, natuwa, naiyak, natae nasuka
at kung ano ano pang arts sa mga sulating nalimbag po dito. Matagal po
itong hin...
2 years ago
Divorce in the Philippines
Good Divorce?
-
I have laid out some arguments on why I think divorce is not an option at
this point so now I am here to point out the good effects of divorce. As we
all k...
4 years ago
This is a sick social scene anyway
Autobiography of a music lover
-
As what Souichi Negishi, the protagonist of Detroit Metal City said, "No
Music, No Dream", it has been my tag line ever since I watched that film.
Even tho...
4 years ago
Confessions of an Introvert
-
Show 5
Show All
Paradigms, Perspectives and Ideas
untold stories
celebrity
country philippines
gay
love
regine velasquez
aquino
filipino
marcos
philippine pride
beauty
existence
family
inspiration
international
life
man
music
opinion
pilipino
politics
realizations
relationship
valentines
God
PTPB
ablan
allegory
arroyo
asian
battle cry
birth of a nation
bloggers party cyber world
career
culture
decisions
dick gordon
edsa
education
elites
enlightenment
essence
estrada
frankl
freedom
gayagaya
home
homophobia
house
human
jollibee
lea salonga
letters to a young poet
little prince
masses
mcdo
media
metamorphosis
movie
nationalism
orihinal
pagbabago
pagibig
perspectives
philippines
philosophy
poem
president
romulo
sartre
songbird
speech
structures
struggles
toursim
views
vote
wounded-healer
Blog Archive
▼
2011
(45)
►
August 21
(1)
►
June 5
(1)
►
May 22
(1)
►
May 1
(1)
►
March 27
(1)
►
March 6
(1)
►
February 20
(1)
▼
February 13
(11)
News For Sale: The Corruption of the Philippine Me...
Everyone's Allegory of the Cave (Inspired by Plato...
Not just a HOUSE but also a HOME
The Beauty of the Songbird
Echoing "The Metamorphosis," "Letters to a Young P...
Gods Existence?
What Viktor Frankl made me Realize
What Jean Paul Sartre Taught Me...
“The Rise of the Masses, The Fall of the Elites”
Is There Anything Original in this World?
Ang Pilipino Takot sa Pagbabago?
►
February 6
(11)
►
January 30
(6)
►
January 23
(10)
What's inside the Closet?
Loading...
What I Watch...
Loading...
People who LOVES me...
My Circle
Out of the Closet
There was an error in this gadget
Travel template. Template images by
jusant . Powered by
Blogger .