Yoo Jae Suk | I am SunDragoon
About Profile Song Lyrics
I am SunDragoon
I want to share with you!!!
Archive for the tag “Yoo Jae Suk”
21
Jun 2014
Memorable Running Man Games
As most of you already know,
Running Man
is a really popular
Variety Show
that could captivate a lot of Korean fans. One of the charms of Running Man is the diverse kinds of games that are played by the members. For me, these kinds of games were not familiar at first, so they look unique and interesting to me when I first saw them. Some of these games have such brilliant ideas that I couldn’t even come up with. The other games are simple, but could turn out to be really funny when played by the
Running Man members . So, let’s look at them.
1. Name Tag Ripping
And here it is the s ignature game of Running Man, Name Tag Ripping! If you have watched Running Man before, you must already know about this game because most of Running Man episodes always have this game. Basically there’s a name tag behind everyone’s back and you have to guard your own name tag so it doesn’t get ripped while trying to eliminate other people by ripping their name tag. This game could be really fun because there can be so many variations to play this game. In Running Man especially, this game is a lot more fun because there are betrayals, surprise, and unexpected things that could happen. They also played several variations of this game, like when they played it in team and when it was one-versus-everyone kind of nametag ripping. So, I think it was obviously a memorable game in Running Man.
2. Ddakji
Here is another game that is played a lot in Running Man that they even held a tournament for this. It is Ddakji! For you who don’t know what ddakji is, it is a square folded paper that is played by throwing it onto another ddakji to make that ddakji flip once. This game was actually played by Korean children a lot and it became one of Running Man’s trademark game. It started as a normal game in Running Man, but it became so popular that they keep playing it again and again. Now, it has become a memorable Running Man game for me since it could be really fun. Watching them played ddakji could be compared to watching
fifa world cup match
because it can be really thrilling. Also, if you want to try playing it, you could make them yourself by watching
this video . It’s really simple and fun to play with other people. Have fun playing it!
3. Photo Zone
This is totally hilarious! Photo zone
is one of my favorite Running Man games ever. It succeeded in making me laugh until my stomach hurt for several times. The members basically have to be in a picture that the crew takes. Their face must be clearly in that picture and not blocked by anything in order to succeed this game. Sometimes, they have to push each other aside and jump like crazy to be in the photo. This game was played a lot in early episodes of Running Man. These days, they rarely play this game, but I hope they will play it again in future episodes.
4. Quiz Games
This is another game that was played a lot in Running Man. It’s like a normal quiz where the members have to answer the question. There were usually punishments if the answer is wrong, like being air-blown by the microphone, thrown into a pool, etc. What makes this game funny is the fact that the members give unexpected and silly answers when they don’t know the real answers. It is a lot of fun to watch since there are also a lot of variations that could be added to this game.
5. Wrestling (Ssireum)
Wrestling (ssireum)
is actually one
of Korean traditional games. It kind of resembles
Sumo , but has certain differences to it.
Kim Jong Kook
is the king of this game since he almost always wins when wrestling with other Running Man members.
Yoo Jae Suk
has met a lot of his embarrassing moments by being tortured by Kim Jong Kook in this game. Since it is also played a lot in the past, I think it’s one of the most memorable game in Running Man.
Those are the games that are most memorable in Running Man in my opinion. I don’t remember all of the games in Running Man, so there might be some that I missed. Perhaps I will write more of it later when I remember other games that I think are memorable. And you might also have different opinions about which games are most memorable to you, so please let me know in the comment which games those are. See you!
Posted in
Korea ,
Variety Shows
and tagged
Ddakji ,
Games ,
Ha Ha ,
Ji Suk Jin ,
Kang Gary ,
Kim Jong Kook ,
Korea ,
Lee Kwang Soo ,
Name Tag Ripping ,
Photo Zone ,
Quiz ,
Running Man ,
Song Ji Hyo ,
Ssireum ,
Variety Show ,
Variety Show Games ,
Yoo Jae Suk
|
Leave a comment
14
Aug 2012
2
Comments
Popular Variety Shows Nowadays..
It’s already late in my country, yet I still can’t sleep and I decided to write something. So, I just want to share my thoughts about Variety Show nowadays. Perhaps most of you know
Running Man
since it’s the most popular variety show now and you also like it, right? That’s the charm of
Korean variety show .
Running man is not the only funny and interesting variety show. There are a lot other which are as funny as Running man, or even better. As you may have already known, there are 3 big broadcasting system in Korea. They are
SBS ,
KBS , and
MBC . While SBS has Running man as its variety show, KBS and MBC also have their own, too. KBS has
1 Night 2 Days , while MBC has
Infinity Challenge . But, it’s true that Running man is the most popular outside Korea. Also, every variety show has its own style and charm which is unique to it. Well, let’s see some of them, then.
Running man has a special concept where you have to compete in order to win something or win the game. I think that’s some of the charm. But, you can’t deny that the one that makes this show interesting is
Yoo Jaesuk . It wouldn’t be as popular as now if Yoo Jaesuk isn’t the MC, don’t you think? Also, the characteristics of each member plus the funny games they play can also be considered its charm. Personally, I like how there are usually guests every week. It kinda attract me to watch the next episode every time I see next week’s guest. Expecially when the guest is pretty. ^o^
KBS 1 Night 2 Days (1N2D) is a show where the members go to different places in Korea to see and introduce those beautiful places to the viewers. While that is the main reason of the show, it has its own addictive charm which is
Bokbulbok . It literally translates to blessing-curse-blessing (according to wikipedia). It actually refers to any kind of game that the members play to decide upon something, like who gets to eat, who gets to sleep outside, etc. If you watch it, you’ll really get addicted to it and find it really amusing. The MC is
Kang Hodong , another great MC who is as good as Yoo Jaesuk and also very funny. You’ll also like him when you watch this. Overall, it’s one of the best show you can watch if you need some laughs.
The last is MBC Infinity Challenge. I actually don’t watch it regularly, not because I don’t want to, but because I don’t have the time. But, I’ve watched some of it and I think it’s kinda like 1N2D where you go to experience a lot of things, playing games, etc except they don’t sleep in at night. Well, CMIIW. The show is also hosted by Yoo Jaesuk, so you should know it must also be funny. Please comment if you have something to add/correct. ^^
Anyway, those are the three most famous variety show according to each broadcasting station. There are a lot other show which are also good to watch like
Invincible Youth ,
Heroes , etc. But, I guess it would be too long and boring if I write all of them here. So, maybe next time. Also, I’m really a fan of bokbulbok and I really want to list all those bokbulbok in the 1N2D show. So, maybe I’ll also write about that next time. Anyway, I hope it was fun reading this one, and if you really want to watch another show beside Running man, I’d suggest those two above (1N2D and Infinity Challenge). See ya.
Posted in
Korea ,
Variety Shows
and tagged
1 Night 2 Days ,
Bokbulbok ,
Infinite Challenge ,
Invincible Youth ,
Kang Ho Dong ,
KBS ,
Korea ,
MBC ,
MC ,
Running Man ,
SBS ,
Variety Show ,
Yoo Jae Suk
15
Dec 2011
Korea’s Grasshopper is the Most Popular MC
Grasshopper ? Isn’t that an insect? Well, not really. It’s actually a nickname of the most famous MC in Korean. If you watched a lot of
Korean variety show , you must know who he is. Yes, he is
Yoo Jae Suk , the National MC of Korea.
Why grasshopper? Well, that nickname was given to him when he appeared in a show at KBS where he debuted. At that time, he appeared at the show using a grasshopper costume. He even made a dance called grasshopper dance, which resembled how grasshoppers hop. After that he started to be more famous as he hosted a lot of different shows.
So, is he really the most popular MC in Korea? I believe so. And I’m sure most Korean people will agree to that. The reason of that is because every Korea citizen knows him. Am I exaggerating? No, I really mean it. You can go to Korea and ask everyone you meet on the road if they know Yoo Jae Suk. He even got the nickname “National MC of Korea” which tells how popular he is in Korea.
Until now, he has appeared as an MC for some variety shows and talk shows. Most of the shows he hosted were always big hits and well-known in Korea. Some of the variety shows are
X-Men ,
Family Outing ,
Infinity Challenge , and
Running Man . And some of the talk shows he hosted are Come To Play and
Happy Together .
Well, what really made him that popular? As you know, variety shows in Korea are usually funny. So, one of the main points that makes a variety show funny is the MC. Jae Suk is known to be a really funny person. He always has a way to make people laugh with his jokes. I eventually like him after watching some of his shows which were always really funny.
But, being funny isn’t the only reason. Korea has a lot of funny MCs other than Jae Suk. So, why is it him? Everyone might have different opinions. But, in my opinion, he became the best MC because he is modest even though he knows he is one of the most famous people in Korea. You can see that from some of his shows, where he usually greets even ordinary people nicely. Also, there was a game in one of Running Man shows that made him couldn’t lie as a lie detector was attached to his body. He was then asked if he thought he is the best MC, even better than MC
Kang Ho Dong . He answered no, and the machine showed that he didn’t lie.
Seeing that event, we can tell that it was just a clear proof of his modesty. He doesn’t think high of himself, which makes him approachable by all citizens of Korea. I feel that I’ll be really comfortable being around him because I know that he is really a modest and nice person, but also a really funny person. There are not many people like that in the world. Being modest even when you know you’re already high is a gift that is only given to some people.
Perhaps we aren’t gifted with a heart like Jae Suk’s. But, we can still try to improve ourselves and be more modest. Even though you might not be able to be famous like him, being modest still make people around you like you and feel comfortable around you. You’ll get more friends and be a better person at the same time. So, time to improve yourself and be more modest!
Well, this is the end for now. See you later!
Posted in
Variety Shows
and tagged
Korea ,
MC ,
Variety Show ,
Yoo Jae Suk
|
Leave a comment
Post Navigation
The Author
iamsundragoon
My Calendar
October 2015
M
T
W
T
F
S
S
« Jun
1 2 3 4
5 6 7 8 9 10 11
12 13 14 15 16 17 18
19 20 21 22 23 24 25
26 27 28 29 30 31
Search here
Search for:
Recent Posts
How Much Korean Support Their Nation at Sports
Korean Foods that Looked Strange at First Sight
Memorable Running Man Games
Why Do I Learn Korean Language?
Roommate, a Variety Show that Finally Brought Me Back Again!
Categories
Food
(3)
Korea
(13)
Language
(1)
Lyrics
(2)
Misc.
(2)
Online World
(1)
Singer/Band
(1)
SNSD
(3)
Uncategorized
(2)
Variety Shows
(9)
Blogroll
KShowNow
SNSD Korean
Soshified
WordPress.com
WordPress.org
Follow Blog via Email
Enter your email address to follow this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Join 6 other followers
Create a free website or blog at WordPress.com .
The Bold Life Theme .
Follow
Follow “I am SunDragoon”
Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.
Build a website with WordPress.com