Korea’s Grasshopper is the Most Popular MC | I am SunDragoon
About Profile Song Lyrics
I am SunDragoon
I want to share with you!!!
15
Dec 2011
Leave a Comment
Korea’s Grasshopper is the Most Popular MC
Grasshopper ? Isn’t that an insect? Well, not really. It’s actually a nickname of the most famous MC in Korean. If you watched a lot of
Korean variety show , you must know who he is. Yes, he is
Yoo Jae Suk , the National MC of Korea.
Why grasshopper? Well, that nickname was given to him when he appeared in a show at KBS where he debuted. At that time, he appeared at the show using a grasshopper costume. He even made a dance called grasshopper dance, which resembled how grasshoppers hop. After that he started to be more famous as he hosted a lot of different shows.
So, is he really the most popular MC in Korea? I believe so. And I’m sure most Korean people will agree to that. The reason of that is because every Korea citizen knows him. Am I exaggerating? No, I really mean it. You can go to Korea and ask everyone you meet on the road if they know Yoo Jae Suk. He even got the nickname “National MC of Korea” which tells how popular he is in Korea.
Until now, he has appeared as an MC for some variety shows and talk shows. Most of the shows he hosted were always big hits and well-known in Korea. Some of the variety shows are
X-Men ,
Family Outing ,
Infinity Challenge , and
Running Man . And some of the talk shows he hosted are Come To Play and
Happy Together .
Well, what really made him that popular? As you know, variety shows in Korea are usually funny. So, one of the main points that makes a variety show funny is the MC. Jae Suk is known to be a really funny person. He always has a way to make people laugh with his jokes. I eventually like him after watching some of his shows which were always really funny.
But, being funny isn’t the only reason. Korea has a lot of funny MCs other than Jae Suk. So, why is it him? Everyone might have different opinions. But, in my opinion, he became the best MC because he is modest even though he knows he is one of the most famous people in Korea. You can see that from some of his shows, where he usually greets even ordinary people nicely. Also, there was a game in one of Running Man shows that made him couldn’t lie as a lie detector was attached to his body. He was then asked if he thought he is the best MC, even better than MC
Kang Ho Dong . He answered no, and the machine showed that he didn’t lie.
Seeing that event, we can tell that it was just a clear proof of his modesty. He doesn’t think high of himself, which makes him approachable by all citizens of Korea. I feel that I’ll be really comfortable being around him because I know that he is really a modest and nice person, but also a really funny person. There are not many people like that in the world. Being modest even when you know you’re already high is a gift that is only given to some people.
Perhaps we aren’t gifted with a heart like Jae Suk’s. But, we can still try to improve ourselves and be more modest. Even though you might not be able to be famous like him, being modest still make people around you like you and feel comfortable around you. You’ll get more friends and be a better person at the same time. So, time to improve yourself and be more modest!
Well, this is the end for now. See you later!
Related
Posted in
Variety Shows
and tagged
Korea ,
MC ,
Variety Show ,
Yoo Jae Suk
Single Post Navigation
←
Older Entry
Newer Entry
→
Leave a Reply
Cancel reply
Enter your comment here...
Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:
Email
(required)
(Address never made public)
Name
(required)
Website
You are commenting using your WordPress.com account.
(  Log Out  /  Change  )
You are commenting using your Twitter account.
(  Log Out  /  Change  )
You are commenting using your Facebook account.
(  Log Out  /  Change  )
You are commenting using your Google+ account.
(  Log Out  /  Change  )
Cancel
Connecting to %s
Notify me of new comments via email.
The Author
iamsundragoon
My Calendar
December 2011
M
T
W
T
F
S
S
Aug »
1 2 3 4
5 6 7 8 9 10 11
12 13 14 15 16 17 18
19 20 21 22 23 24 25
26 27 28 29 30 31
Search here
Search for:
Recent Posts
How Much Korean Support Their Nation at Sports
Korean Foods that Looked Strange at First Sight
Memorable Running Man Games
Why Do I Learn Korean Language?
Roommate, a Variety Show that Finally Brought Me Back Again!
Categories
Food
(3)
Korea
(13)
Language
(1)
Lyrics
(2)
Misc.
(2)
Online World
(1)
Singer/Band
(1)
SNSD
(3)
Uncategorized
(2)
Variety Shows
(9)
Blogroll
KShowNow
SNSD Korean
Soshified
WordPress.com
WordPress.org
Follow Blog via Email
Enter your email address to follow this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Join 6 other followers
Blog at WordPress.com .
The Bold Life Theme .
Follow
Follow “I am SunDragoon”
Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.
Build a website with WordPress.com