April | 2011 | The Earth Enthusiast
The Earth Enthusiast
This blog is all about interesting things on Earth.
Home About
RSS
Monthly Archives:
April 2011
Best Comedians in the Philippines
27
Apr
There are lots of comedians in the Philippines. They make us laugh out loud and forget our problems even just for a short period of time. And it has become an issue nowadays who really is the best among them. Thus, I decided to make a poll of who is the best comedian in RP and I hope that you’ll like it! But before you read the results, take a deep breath and SMILE
:-)
The TOUGH LAUGH TEN:
1. DOLPHY (Rodolfo Vera Quizon, Sr.)
A
Filipino
comedian – actor
in the
Philippines . He is widely regarded as the “King of Comedy” of the country for his innate comedic talent embodied by his long roster of works on stage, radio, television and movies.
His exposure to movies started while as a young person, he worked inside the theater selling peanuts, watermelon seeds and
jicama
snacks, thereby he could watch limitless movies for free.
Gone with the Wind
was the first
color motion picture film
he saw.
In November 2010, President
Benigno Aquino III
conferred the Grand Collar of the Order of the Golden Heart to Dolphy – the highest award given to a private citizen by the President of the Philippines – for his contributions to the entertainment industry and for his charitable and philanthropic works.
While on television, he also started doing movies for independent studios like LEA Productions, Balatbat Productions, Filipinas Productions, Zultana Productions and
Fernando Poe, Jr. ‘s D’Lanor Productions. He starred on two of his movies in 1964,
Captain Barbell
and
Daigdig ng Fantasia
(Fantasy World) with
Nova Villa , both directed by
Herminio “Butch” Bautista .
2. AI-AI DE LAS ALAS (Martina Aileen de las Alas)
A
Filipino
comedienne
and
film actress . She has three children with ex-husband Miguel Vera.
de las Alas is the daughter of Rosendo de las Alas (1920–2008). She was married to actor Miguel Vera. She was a saleslady at a Department Store.
Ai-ai  de las Alas has done several movies including
Ang Tanging Ina
produced by
Star Cinema , ABS-CBN film productions. It was followed by more comedy films like
Volta
where she plays a superhero, which was followed by a TV series. Also, in television shows like
MTB: Ang Saya Saya
in where she was one the lead host, and played an important role in the TV remake of
Bituing Walang Ningning
as mother.
She also released her first album with
Star Records
entitled
Ang Tanging Ina Nyo , featuring six novelty tunes, with tracks including “Tanging Ina Nyo”, “Volta”, “Dance-phabet”, “Tong Twalya”, “Si Manloloko” and “Super Papa”.
She has also acted in the films
Ang Cute Ng Ina Mo ,
Ang Tanging Ina N’yong Lahat
and
Pasuko
3.. VICE GANDA (Jose Mari Borja-Visceral)
A
Filipino
stand-up comedian , actor, and the resident judge of
Showtime , a pre-noontime talent show aired on
ABS-CBN .
He is currently managed by columnist and talk show host
Ogie Diaz . He became the first Filipino celebrity to have 1,000,000 fans on the social networking site
Facebook , Currently, he has about 2,000,000 fans in
Facebook .
He/  She is the 42nd Box-Office Entertainment Award, “Bert Marcelo Memorial Award”. Ganda grew up in Jose Abad Santos, in Manuguit,
Tondo, Manila . He is the youngest of 5 siblings. His mother was forced to work in the
United States
when his father died when he was 13 years old. He attended
Far Eastern University
studying
political science . He started his career in 1999 as a
stand up comedian
performing at
The Library
comedy bar .Ganda is the youngest among five siblings. He has 2 sisters and 2 brothers. His 2 brothers are also gay. Ganda said his father did not know he was gay and he kept his sexuality hidden from his mother as he did not want to disappoint her. Vice Ganda was 9 years old when his father died from gun shots, this is why if Vice Ganda hears gun shots it reminds him of the death of his father.
4. POKWANG (Marietta Subong)
A
Filipina
comedienne, actress, TV host singer, impersonator and salon co-owner. She started in a reality show in
ABS-CBN
and subsequently appeared in dramas and sitcoms of the network. She also received the Best Comedy Actress award from the Philippine Movie Press Club for her portrayal in the sitcom
Aalog-Alog
and the Best Female Comedian award from
People’s Choice Awards . She became a host of the variety show
Wowowee
until it ended in July 31, 2010. She is also known for impersonating actress Annabelle Rama,
Dionisia Pacquiao
( Manny Pacquiao ‘s mother), and Marlene Aguilar, the sister of singer
Freddie Aguilar . Pokwang is a member of ABS CBN’s
Star Magic
group of entertainers. Recently she filed a complaint against a former felon a certain Michael Balboa who has a past relationship with one of Pokwang’s employees, the suspect threw stones at her beauty parlor located at West Avenue, Quezon City.
5. EUGENE DOMINGO (Eugene Domingo)
A
Filipina
theater, movie and television
actress . She is the only actress in the Philippine entertainment history to have participated in six films ( Working Girls 2010 ,
Here Comes the Bride ,
Mamarazzi ,
Petrang Kabayo ,
RPG: Metanoia ,
Ang Tanging Ina Mo (Last na ‘To!) ) produced by eight different Filipino production companies ( GMA Films ,
Regal Films , Unitel Productions, OctoArts Films, Quantum Films,
VIVA Films , Ambient Media,
Star Cinema ) within a year. Domingo also holds the record of being the first lead actress in Philippine cinema to star in the most number of films (seven) in a year.
Domingo started her career by enrolling in the
University of the Philippines ‘s Theatre Arts program, and apprenticing as an actress, production and stage management staff under the university’s theatre company
Dulaang UP
and recently played such a role in the film “Foster Child”
which won her the award for Best Supporting Actress in the Gawad Tanglaw. She appeared on a number of
sitcoms ,
teleseryes
and drama anthologies in both
ABS-CBN
and
GMA Network .
6. MICHAEL V. (Beethoven del Valle Bunagan)
Also known as “ Bitoy ” or “ Toybits “, is a
Filipino
comedian ,
actor ,
director ,
composer ,
singer ,
rapper ,
voice artist
and
parodist , who appears in the
GMA Network
show
Bubble Gang , and in his own TV show
Bitoy’s Funniest Videos . His current TV show is
Pepito Manaloto . Known as the
“Weird Al” Yankovic
of the
Philippines
for his “translations” and
parodies
of popular Filipino and foreign songs and has also made original songs, such as “Sinaktan Mo Ang Puso Ko” (You’ve Hurt My Heart), and “Hindi Ako Bakla” (I’m Not Fag). The song “Sinaktan Mo Ang Puso Ko” is closely similar to Yankovic’s “ You Don’t Love Me Anymore “.
He has won the
Asian Television Awards
for Best Comedy Performance by an Actor for the years 2004, 2005 and 2006.
He recently joined
MariMar
as the voice of Fulgoso. After his voice-acting in MariMar, he joined the cast of
Codename: Asero
which is Bitoy’s first soap opera.
On August 23, 2008, Michael V, was officially informed that he will grace the front cover of
Reader’s Digest
(RD) 5th Annual Humor Special, September issue.
7. JOEY DE LEON (José María Ramos de León)
A
Filipino
comedian ,
actor , and television presenter. He hosts the noontime
variety show
Eat Bulaga! . He is a member of the comedy trio Tito,
Vic
and Joey that has made several comedy movies and TV shows. As a songwriter, de Leon has penned songs including “Ipagpatawad Mo” (Forgive Me), “Awitin Mo, Isasayaw Ko” (Sing and I Will Dance), “Boyfriend kong Baduy” (My Geeky Boyfriend), “Iskul Bukol” (School Lump).He started out his showbiz career in the 1960s as a radio
disc jockey . His first big break on TV was
Intercontinental Broadcasting Corporation ‘s gag show
OK Lang .
Although de Leon continued to do movies alongside his showbiz team mates Tito and Vic, he started doing solo performances for other TV shows. He top billed
Joey and Son
in the ’80s, a sitcom on
RPN
where he played father. He was also one of the gag performers on TODAS where his co-stars included Jimmy Santos and Val Sotto. Other TV shows included Apple Pie, Patis, Atbp., The Sharon Cuneta Show, and Let’s Go Crazy. He was launched by Viva Films as a solo comedian in
She-Man: Mistress of the Universe . He also tried his hand at directing movies like
Romeo Loves Juliet
and
Small, Medium, Large .
8. ALLAN K (Allan Quilantang)
A singer, comedian, actor and TV host. He is one of the co-hosts of the noontime variety show
Eat Bulaga.
Allan K’s first appearance in
Eat Bulaga
was in Bulagaan; before joining the show he performed in bars, and in other countries.
He became a regular host of Eat Bulaga, with his own segment entitled “Allan nose (knows) best”.
During his 11 year-stay in Eat Bulaga, one challenge was for him to walk from Tape office (Quezon City) to the church of Antipolo City (estimated distance: 16.8 km) and perform in the E.B. Babes: Bebot division competition.
Previous to Eat Bulaga, Allan K was a host of “All-Star K” The 1 Million Videoke Challenge” together with singer and host Jaya Ramsey.
He previously hosted “Bandaoke” with co-host Jaya Ramsey.
He currently co-hosts a Comedy Talent Show “Comedy Bar” with Eugene Domingo.
9. K BROSAS (Maria Carmela Brosas)
A
Filipina
actress ,
comedienne ,
singer
and
television host . She was a band member of ‘Gladys and The Boxers’ and was
lead singer
when the group performed as ‘K and The Boxers’. In mid-2010, she became a co-host in the game show
Pilipinas Win na Win .
10.  KITKAT (Soraya Ray Lopez Bañas)
A singer, comedian, and actress in the Philippines. She is known as “The Stolen Diva”, under the management of
ABS-CBN . She is a stand-up singer/comedienne at
Punchline ,
Laffline
and
Metro Comedy Bar . Her first solo concert was in January 2009 at the Metro Bar. She also portrays sidekicks in television series and movies. She has appeared on the game show
The Singing Bee .
She entered amateur singing contests as a child, and while at school worked as a back-up singer then band member with
Willie Revillame . She holds a degree in International Studies from the
College of the Holy Spirit , graduating in 2004.
REFERENCES:
http://en.wikipedia.org
http://www.google.com.ph/
http://www.yahoo.com/
Leave a comment
Posted by
red88sky
on April 27, 2011 in
Uncategorized
26
Apr
Singers with the Most Powerful Singing Voice
I am a music lover! That’s why I decided to make a top ten list of singers with the most powerful singing voice in the world. This is based on my opinion and I don’t intend to hurt others if they don’t like my opinion! So, here are they:
10. SARAH GERONIMO (Sarah Asher Tua Geronimo)
Sarah Geronimo
Also known as the “Pop Princess” is a singer, actress, model, dancer, and host from the Philippines. Geronimo started her career at a young age and appeared in children’s variety shows such as Pen-pen de Sarapen, Ang TV and NEXT .
She is the first Filipino artist to receive a platinum award for a DVD copy of her concert The Other Side in 2005 and is currently the only artist who has a platinum record not only for one but for 4 DVD’s of her concert in which her fourth one was awarded with triple platinum status in December of 2010. Her full album released on the new format called Music Album Phone which she is the first to have, reached platinum status on its first day of release.
In 2010, Geronimo received the Best Female Major Concert for her sold-out Araneta show “Record Breaker” and the “Entertainer of the Year” award from
Aliw Awards
Foundation making her the youngest artist to receive the award in history. Geronimo is
PARI ’s biggest selling artist of the decade, selling a million albums since her debut in 2003.
9. REGINE VELASQUEZ (Regina Encarnacion Ansong Velasquez)
Regine Velasquez
A
Filipina
singer, actress, record producer and
TV host . She won the 1989 Asia Pacific Singing Contest in Hong Kong and is widely known for possessing a wide and powerful vocal range. She has collaborated with artists such as
Paul Anka ,
David Hasselhoff ,
98 Degrees ,
Brian McKnight ,
Mandy Moore ,
Ronan Keating ,
Stephen Bishop
Jim Brickman , [5]
Peabo Bryson , [6]
Jeffrey Osborne ,
Dave Koz ,
Grasshopper ,
Coco Lee ,
Michel Legrand ,
David Pomeranz ,
Eduardo Capetillo ,
Fernando Carrillo , and
Billy Crawford . “In Love With You,” a duet with
Jacky Cheung , reached MTV Asia and Channel V music charts.
She has also embarked on several television and film projects, receiving a Best Actress Award for her portrayal of a
mentally challenged
woman in
Maalaala Mo Kaya .Velasquez also formed IndiMusic (iMusic), a record label partnered with Bella Tan’s Universal Records., She is currently managed by Aria Productions.
8. MICHAEL JACKSON (Michael Joseph Jackson)
Michael Jackson
An American recording artist, dancer, singer-songwriter, musician, and philanthropist. Referred to as the
King of Pop , Jackson is recognized as the most successful entertainer of all time by
Guinness World Records . His contribution to music, dance, and fashion, along with a much-publicized personal life, made him a global figure in
popular culture
for over four decades. The eighth child of the
Jackson family , he debuted on the professional music scene along with his brothers as a member of
The Jackson 5
in 1964, and began his solo career in 1971.
Jackson sang from childhood, and over time his voice and vocal style changed noticeably. Between 1971 and 1975, Jackson’s voice descended from boy soprano to high tenor. Jackson first used a technique called the “vocal hiccup” in 1973, starting with the song “It’s Too Late to Change the Time” from
The Jackson 5 ‘s
G.I.T.: Get It Together
album.Jackson did not use the hiccup technique— somewhat like a gulping for air or gasping— fully until the recording of
Off the Wall : it can be seen in full force in the “ Shake Your Body (Down to the Ground) ” promotional video. With the arrival of
Off the Wall
in the late 1970s, Jackson’s abilities as a vocalist were well regarded. At the time,
Rolling Stone
compared his vocals to the “breathless, dreamy stutter” of Stevie Wonder. Their analysis was also that “Jackson’s feathery-timbred tenor is extraordinarily beautiful. It slides smoothly into a startling
falsetto
that’s used very daringly”. 1982 saw the release of
Thriller , and
Rolling Stone
was of the opinion that Jackson was then singing in a “fully adult voice” that was “tinged by sadness”.
7. DIANA ROSS (Diana Ernestine Earle Ross)
Diana Ross
an
American
singer
and
actress . Ross was lead singer of the
Motown
group
The Supremes
during the 1960s. After leaving the group in 1970, Ross began a solo career that included successful ventures into
film
and
Broadway . She received a
Best Actress
Academy Award nomination for her role as
Billie Holiday
in
Lady Sings the Blues
(1972), for which she won a
Golden Globe
award. She won 8 awards
American Music Awards , garnered twelve
Grammy Award
nominations, and won a
Tony Award
for her one-woman show,
An Evening with Diana Ross , in 1977.
In 1976,
Billboard
magazine named her the “Female Entertainer of the Century.” In 1993, the
Guinness Book of World Records
declared Diana Ross the most successful female music artist in history due to her success in the
United States
and
United Kingdom
for having more hits than any female artist in the charts with a career total of 18 number one records in the United States. Diana Ross has sold more than 100 million records worldwide .
Ross is one of the few recording artists to have two stars on the
Hollywood Walk of Fame —one as a solo artist and the other as a member of The Supremes. In December 2007, she received a
John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts
Honors Award .
6. BEYONCE (Beyoncé Giselle Knowles)
Beyonce
An American recording artist, actress and fashion designer. Born and raised in
Houston ,
Texas , she enrolled in various performing arts schools and was first exposed to singing and dancing competitions as a child. Knowles rose to fame in the late 1990s as the lead singer of the R&B girl group
Destiny’s Child , one of the world’s
best-selling girl groups
of all time. During the hiatus of Destiny’s Child, Knowles released her debut solo album
Dangerously in Love
in 2003, which spawned the number one hits “ Crazy in Love ” and “ Baby Boy ” and became one of the most successful albums of that year, earning her a then record-tying five
Grammy Awards . Following the group’s disbandment in 2005, Knowles released her second solo album,
B’Day
in 2006. It debuted at number one on the
Billboard
200
and included the hits “ Irreplaceable ” and “ Beautiful Liar “. Her third solo album
I Am… Sasha Fierce
was released in 2008, and included the anthemic “ Single Ladies (Put a Ring on It) “. The album earned Knowles six Grammys at the
52nd Grammy Awards , breaking the record for most
Grammy Awards won by a female artist in one night .
Knowles has earned numerous awards and accolades. She is one of the most honored artists by the Grammys, and third among female artists,with a total of 16 Grammy Awards— 13 as a solo artist and 3 as a member of Destiny’s Child. Knowles was ranked the 4th Artist of the 2000s
decade
by
Billboard
and was listed the most successful female artist of the decade, as well as the top radio artist of the decade.
5. MARIAH CAREY (Mariah Carey)
Mariah Carey
An
American
R&B / pop
singer-songwriter ,
record producer
and actress. She made her recording debut, in 1990, under the guidance of
Columbia Records
executive
Tommy Mottola , and became the first recording artist to have her first five singles top the U.S.
Billboard
Hot 100
chart. Following her marriage to Mottola, in 1993, a series of hit records including, “ Dreamlover ” and “ Hero ” from the diamond album,
Music Box
established her position as Columbia Records’ highest-selling act.
Mariah Carey possesses a
five-octave vocal range , and was ranked first in a 2003
MTV
and
Blender
magazine countdown of the 22 Greatest Voices in Music, as voted by fans and readers in an online poll. Carey said of the poll, “What it really means is voice of the MTV generation. Of course, it’s an enormous compliment, but I don’t feel that way about myself.” She also placed second in
Cove
magazine’s list of “The 100 Outstanding Pop Vocalists.” Regarding her
voice type , Carey said that she is
alto , while French-American
baritone
and singing teacher in the
Conservatoire de Paris
Malcolm Walker states that she is
light lyric soprano , “because the upper register is much more healtier than the lower register.” However, within contemporary forms of music, singers are classified by the
style of music
they sing. There is currently no authoritative voice classification system within non-classical music. Attempts have been made to adopt classical voice type terms to other forms of singing, but they are controversial,because the development of classic voice categorizations were made with the understanding that the singer would amplifying his voice with his naturals resonators, without a
microphone.
4.. CHARICE (Charmaine Clarice Relucio Pempengco)
Charice
A
Filipino
recording artist
and
actress
who rose to popularity through
YouTube . Dubbed by
Oprah Winfrey
as the
Most Talented Girl in the World , she released her first international
studio album ,
Charice
in 2010. The album entered the
Billboard 200
at number-eight making Charice the first and only Asian singer in history to land in the Top 10 of the
Billboard 200
album chart. In late 2010, she released an
Extended play , titled
Grown-Up Christmas List . She released the single, “ Pyramid “, which featured rapper,
Iyaz . It became her most successful single to-date, charting within the top-40 in a number of countries, and debuting on
The Oprah Winfrey Show
where she sang live vocals. Crossing over to acting on television, she joined the cast of TV series
Glee
as
Sunshine Corazon . She is due to release a new single from her upcoming international studio album, “ Before It Explodes “, a song written by
Bruno Mars .
3. BARBRA STREISAND (Barbra Joan Streisand)
Barbra Streisand
An American
singer ,
actress ,
film producer
and
director . She has won two
Academy Awards , eight
Grammy Awards , four
Emmy Awards , a
Special Tony Award , an
American Film Institute
award, a
Peabody Award , and is one of the few entertainers
who have won an Oscar, Emmy, Grammy, and Tony Award .
She is one of the most commercially and critically successful entertainers in modern entertainment history, with more than 71.5 million albums shipped in the United States and 140 million albums sold worldwide. She is the best-selling female artist on the
Recording Industry Association of America ‘s (RIAA) Top Selling Artists list, the only female recording artist in the top ten, and the only artist outside of the
rock and roll
genre. Along with
Frank Sinatra ,
Cher , and
Shirley Jones , she shares the distinction of being awarded an acting Oscar and also recording a number-one single on the U.S.
Billboard Hot 100
chart.
According to the
RIAA , Streisand holds the record for the most top ten albums of any female recording artist – a total of 31 since 1963. Streisand has the
widest span (46 years) between first and latest top ten albums of any female recording artist. With her 2009 album,
Love Is the Answer , she became one of the only artists to achieve number-one albums in five consecutive decades. According to the RIAA, she has released 51 Gold albums, 30 Platinum albums, and 13 Multi-Platinum albums in the United States.
2. CELINE DION (Céline Marie Claudette Dion)
Celine Dion
A
Canadian
recording artist and entrepreneur. Born to a large family from
Charlemagne ,
Quebec , Dion emerged as a teen star in the French-speaking world after her manager and future husband
René Angélil
mortgaged his home to finance her first record. In 1990, she released the
English-language
album
Unison , establishing herself as a viable pop artist in North America and other English-speaking areas of the world.
Dion is often regarded as one of pop music’s most influential voices. She has been described as a reigning “ Queen of Pop ” for her influence over the record industry during the 1990s, alongside other female entertainers, including
Whitney Houston
and
Mariah Carey . In a countdown of the “22 Greatest Voices in Music” by
Blender Magazine
and
MTV , she placed ninth (sixth for a female), and she was also placed fourth in
Cove
magazine’s list of “The 100 Outstanding Pop Vocalists.”Dion is often compared to
Mariah Carey
for her vocal style and to her idol,
Barbra Streisand
for her voice.
1. WHITNEY HOUSTON (Whitney Elizabeth Houston)
Whitney Houston
An American
R&B /pop singer, actress, and former fashion model. Houston is the most awarded female artist of all time, according to Guinness World Records, and her
list of awards
include 2
Emmy Awards , 6
Grammy Awards , 16
Billboard Music Awards , 22
American Music Awards , among a total of 415 career awards as of 2010. Houston is also one of the world’s
best-selling music artists , having sold over 170 million albums and singles worldwide.
Houston is a
mezzo-soprano . Her
vocal range
extends from G below
middle C
(G 3 ) to high B- flat
(B♭ 5 ); she can
belt
out to treble F (F 5 ). She came in third on MTV’s 22 Greatest Voices,and sixth on
Online Magazine COVE ‘s list of the 100 Best Pop Vocalists with a score of 48.5/50.In 2008,
Rolling Stone
listed Houston as the thirty-fourth of the 100 greatest singers of all time, stating “Her voice is a mammoth, coruscating cry: Few vocalists could get away with opening a song with 45 unaccompanied seconds of singing, but Houston’s powerhouse version of Dolly Parton’s “I Will Always Love You” is a tour de force.”Describing Houston’s voice,
Mariah Carey
states “[She] has a really rich, strong mid-belt that very few people have. She sounds really good, really strong.”
Leave a comment
Posted by
red88sky
on April 26, 2011 in
Uncategorized
“VIA CRUCIS” , An Undying Tradition
19
Apr
Via Crucis
(or Way of the Cross; Stations of the Cross, ; also called the Via Dolorosa or Way of Sorrows, or simply, The Way) refers to the depiction of the final hours (or Passion) of Jesus, and the devotion commemorating the Passion. The tradition as chapel devotion began with St. Francis of Assisi and extended throughout the Roman Catholic Church in the medieval period. It is less often observed in the Anglican and Lutheran churches. It may be done at any time, but is most commonly done during the Season of Lent, especially on Good Friday and on Friday evenings during Lent.
And here in the Our Lady of the Holy Rosary Parish in Tuyan, City of Naga, the parishioners started this long time tradition of the catholics on the holy tuesday, April 19th. Their first station was at the church’s altar and ended at the Magdooc chapel as the fourteenth station.
I have experienced this undying tradition for quiet a long time together with hundreds of catholics from Tuyan, and its neighboring barangays, the Inayagan and Cantao-an. This tradition is really for all ages because even the older people who could barely walk went with their relatives just to experience the “Via Crucis”. And also the younger people who are not totally aware of this catholic tradition joined together with their parents just to experience this as inherited by their relatives. And in spite of the hot rays of the sun and the tricky way, the faithful people didn’t cease to walk and climb the rocky hills. Because they believed that their sacrifices will be of  worth. And that their immolations were not enough compared to the trials and hardships Jesus Christ experienced on his way to Mt. Calvary.
And as a follower of God, I will not cease to experience this kind of tradition that I think is a good way to repent for our sins. As what was written in Luke 9:23 “Whoever wishes to be God’s follower must deny his very self, take up his cross each day, and follow in His steps.”
So, I will continue to carry my cross for the betterment of my soul and for God’s glory!
Alfred L. Alicabo
Leave a comment
Posted by
red88sky
on April 19, 2011 in
Uncategorized
The Philippines
18
Apr
The
Philippines
[ Filipino :
Pilipinas ], officially known as the
Republic of the Philippines
[ Filipino :
Republika ng Pilipinas ] is a country in Southeast Asia in the western Pacific Ocean.To its north across the Luzon Strait lies Taiwan. West across the South China Sea sits Vietnam. The Sulu Sea to the southwest lies between the country and the island of  Borneo, and to the south the Celebes Sea separates it from other islands of Indonesia. It is bounded on the east by the Philippine Sea. Its location on the Pacific Ring of Fire and its tropical climate make the Philippines prone to earthquakes and typhoons but have also endowed the country with natural resources and made it one of the richest areas of biodiversity in the world. An archipelago comprising 7,107 islands, the Philippines is categorized broadly into three main geographical divisions:Luzon, Visayas and Mindanao. Its capital city is Manila.
Source:
[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Philippines]
Leave a comment
Posted by
red88sky
on April 18, 2011 in
Uncategorized
Hello world!
15
Apr
Welcome to
WordPress.com . After you read this, you should delete and write your own post, with a new title above. Or hit
Add New
on the left (of the
admin dashboard ) to start a fresh post.
Here
are some suggestions for your first post.
You can find new ideas for what to blog about by reading
the Daily Post .
Add
PressThis
to your browser. It creates a new blog post for you about any interesting  page you read on the web.
Make some changes to this page , and then hit preview on the right. You can alway preview any post or edit you before you share it to the world.
1 Comment
Posted by
red88sky
on April 15, 2011 in
Uncategorized
Search It!
Search
My Pics.
Gravatar Image.
Read this…
Best Comedians in the Philippines
22
“VIA CRUCIS” , An Undying Tradition
The Philippines
Hello world!
Routine
April 2011
S
M
T
W
T
F
S
1 2
3 4 5 6 7 8 9
10 11 12 13 14 15 16
17 18 19 20 21 22 23
24 25 26 27 28 29 30
My tweets! Error: Twitter did not respond. Please wait a few minutes and refresh this page. Archives
Archives
Select Month
April 2011  (5)
Author
red88sky
Blog at WordPress.com .
The Choco Theme .
Entries (RSS)
and
Comments (RSS)
The Earth Enthusiast
Create a free website or blog at WordPress.com .
The Choco Theme .
Follow
Follow “The Earth Enthusiast”
Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.
Build a website with WordPress.com
Add your thoughts here... (optional)
Post to
Cancel