NewReleaz: November 2008 - CellPhones | Gadgets | Cars | Bikes | Games | Movies | Music
skip to main
|
skip to sidebar
NewReleaz
Sunday, November 2, 2008
madhur bhadarkar Latest Movie:Fashion Movie Review(2008)
Cast:
Priyanka Chopra, Mugdha Godse, Kangna Ranaut, Arbaaz Khan, Harsh Chhaya, Madhur
Bhandarkar, Karan Johar, Manish Malhotra, Neil Nitin Mukesh . Director:
Madhur Bhandarkar Producer:
Ronnie Screwvala Music:
Salim Merchant & Sulaiman Merchant Lyrics:
Irfan Siddique, Sandeep Nath The Story: The story of Fashion begins in Chandigarh, where aspiring model Meghna Mathur (Priyanka) conveys her wish to go to Mumbai to her parents. While her dad (Raj Babbar) out rightly refuses, her mom (Kiran Juneja) is supportive. Against her dad’s wishes, Meghna leaves her house with dreams in her eyes to strike it big in the modeling world. But it is not a path of roses for her as she experiences some major difficulties in her initial days in Mumbai. But she gets a good helping hand with an old acquaintance, Rohit (Ashwin Mushran) an aspiring designer who assists big shot designer Rahul Arora (Sameer Soni). She keeps bumping into another struggling model, Maanav (Arjan) while making the rounds of modeling agencies for auditions. Meghna becomes good friends with Maanav and even starts sharing his apartment after she faces accommodation problems. Meghna gets noticed by India’s top modeling agency Panache’s top official, Anisha Roy (Kitu) who brings her to Panache boss, Abhijit Sareen’s (Arbaaz) notice. Abhijit gets impressed by her ambitious nature and go getter attitude. Panache’s face is Shonali (Kangana) but though very successful, her drug habit starts becoming a problem for her and subsequently for Panache. Abhijit decides to terminate Shonali’s contract and ropes in Meghna in her place. Soon, Meghna is everywhere – right from being the showstopper at the biggest fashion shows in town to fashion magazine covers to print ads to TV commercials. The overnight success spoils Meghna and the budding love relationship between her and Maanav also comes to an abrupt end. What happens after Meghna reaches the pinnacle of success in the modeling world and how her journey also invariably leads to the downfall of Shonali and what shocking things further await Meghna forms the rest of the film. After the cricically acclaimed and controversial films like Chandni Bar, Page 3, Corporate and Traffic Signal, Madhur has hit a master stroke with Fashion exposing the nasty dark side of the most glamorous profession in the world. Never getting preachy and avoiding stereo types Madhur efficiently handles the subject without getting judgemental even once. He has outshone himself in the technical department making Fashion is most slick product till date. His perfect casting also lifts the film to a totally different angle. In fact one wouldn’t be surprised if Madhur manages to win a National Award with this film as well! Also, perhaps for the first time his climax is not dark where the protagonist ends up being a loser! The film has a bitter-sweet ending. The screenplay by Madhur, Anuradha Tiwari and Ajay Monga peeks deep into the reality of the fashion world and touches every single aspect of the industry such as casting couch, gay designers, wild lifestyle of models who can’t handle success, backstage dramas during major fashion shows, manipulative head honchos and attitude problems of successful people. After holding the audience’s attention captive for a major portion, the screenplay tends to drag towards the finale moments. Niranjan Iyengar’s dialogues strike a chord. Priyanka in the most challenging roles of her career, delivers the goods successfully. Kangana despite a short role ends up giving an award worthy performance. Even though it is her debut film, Mugdha Godse shows extreme confidence. Arbaaz Khan is good and so is Sameer Soni. Arjan Bajwa acts well. Kitu Gidwani is graceful whereas Ashwin Mushran is very like able.
Posted by
Gautam Venkatesh
at
9:11 PM
No comments:
Electronic Arts Makes Games for Google Android Mobile Phone
Electronic Arts unveiled games tailored for Google phones running on Android open-source software.
Tetris is available for the first of what is expected to be an array of mobile telephones based on a free, open software platform created by a Google-led Open Handset Alliance. EA said that puzzle-game "Bejeweled" and a video game version of "Monopoly" will be available for T-Mobile G1 handset in November and that more games are in development. "Android is another exciting new platform to offer customers great games with enhancements like touch and tilt capabilities," said Adam Sussman, Vice President of EA Mobile. T-Mobile began selling G1 smartphone last week. Motorola is believed to be rolling out Android-based mobile phones of its own. EA has versions of "Tetris," "Bejeweled," and "Monopoly" and other games available for BlackBerry devices and smartphones built with Microsoft's Windows software. It also has mobile versions of "Spore," "Tetris," "Sudoku," and "Scrabble" for the Apple iPhone.
Posted by
Gautam Venkatesh
at
8:20 PM
No comments:
New Game Releases for the Week of November 2, 2008
"November kicks off with (yet another) release week blowout!
Highlights include Resistance 2 (PS3),
Gears of War 2
(Xbox 360), Tom Clancy's End War (Xbox 360/PS3/PSP/DS), Valkyria Chronicles (PS3), plus much more!
Check out the full list of new video game releases (USA) for the week of November 2, 2008 on Xbox 360, PlayStation 3, Nintendo Wii, Sony PS2, PSP, Nintendo DS, and PC!"
Posted by
Gautam Venkatesh
at
1:41 AM
No comments:
Quantum of Solace
Release on November 2, 2008
Quantum of Solace
American theatrical poster
James Bond
Daniel Craig
Also starring
Mathieu Amalric Olga Kurylenko Gemma Arterton Judi Dench Jeffrey Wright Giancarlo Giannini
Directed by
Marc Forster
Produced by
Michael G. Wilson Barbara Broccoli
Novel/Story by
Ian Fleming
(Characters) Michael G. Wilson (Plot)
Screenplay
Joshua Zetumer Paul Haggis Neal Purvis Robert Wade
Cinematography by
Roberto Schaefer
Music by
David Arnold
Main theme
" Another Way to Die "
Composer
Jack White
Performer
Alicia Keys Jack White
Editing by
Matt Chesse Rick Pearson
Distributed by
Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Columbia Pictures
Released
31 October 2008 (UK,
EI ) 14 November 2008 ( NA ) 19 November 2008 ( AUS )
Running time
106 min.
Budget
£ 113.4 million
Preceded by
Casino Royale
(2006)
Followed by
Bond 23
(2010)
Plot
Almost an hour after the conclusion to
Casino Royale , Bond is involved in a car chase in
Siena ,
Italy , with the captured
Mr. White
restrained in the boot. After evading his pursuers, Bond, along with two agents and
M , interrogate Mr. White, who reveals that his organization,
Quantum , has agents in
Her Majesty's Government
and the
CIA . One of the agents (Mitchell), M's trusted
bodyguard , kills an agent, frees Mr. White and tries to escape. Bond pursues him and is forced to kill the double agent in self-defence.
MI6
traces some doctored cash to
Haiti , where Bond meets
Camille , who helps him to find
Dominic Greene , a ruthless businessman and chairman of Greene Planet, a legitimate cover for Quantum. Camille is revealed to have a vendetta against an exiled
Bolivian ,
General Medrano . The General murdered Camille's father, and forced her to witness the rape and murder of her mother and older sister, before setting fire to their home, leaving the very young Camille to burn.
After the first encounter, Camille makes her way to Greene, who then introduces her to General Medrano. At this point, Camille is escorted away by Medrano to his private boat. Bond pursues and captures Camille before she is able to assassinate Medrano. Bond and Camille escape from the clutches of Medrano's henchmen after a protracted on-water chase. After disembarking Bond leaves an unconscious Camille to a local, then tracks Greene to an airfield and a waiting private jet. On the jet are CIA operatives
Felix Leiter
and Gregg Beam, whom Greene and chief henchman Elvis meet to discuss the CIA's non-involvement in Medrano's/Greene Planet coup of Bolivia. The CIA agree not to act in exchange for oil provided by Greene following a successful coup. In return, Greene asks for Bond to be taken care of, of which Beam agrees to.
Bond follows Greene to a production of
Tosca
being held on the shore of
Lake Constance
in
Bregenz ,
Austria , which is being used as a clandestine way for members of Quantum to discuss the destabilisation of the Bolivian government and the control of South America's water supply. It emerges that Greene intends to use his government contacts to help overthrow the current regime in
Bolivia , and place the exiled General Medrano as the head of state. Medrano will in exchange give him a barren piece of land, which will actually give them total control of the nation's water supply. As the meeting continues Bond sends the pictures of most of the participants of the meeting to MI6, with the notable exception of Mr White, who remains in his seat as his fellow Quantum accomplices leave the audience. As Greene departs from the show, he's intercepted by Bond, where a gun fight follows, which culminates in the capture of the bodyguard of a key Quantum member. The bodyguard is subsequently shot by Greene's men after he falls onto the hood of Greene's vehicle.
As a result of yet another death of a potentially vital source of information, Bond's passports and credit cards are revoked at the behest of M. Despite this, Bond is still able to travel to Italy, where he reunites with
René Mathis , his contact who first appeared in
Casino Royale . After an awkward introduction, Mathis agrees to help Bond, and the duo subsequently make their way to
La Paz ,
Bolivia . As they leave La Paz Airport, an MI6 field operative working out of the British Consulate, Agent
Strawberry Fields , introduces herself and makes clear to Bond that there is an arrest warrant on him and that he is to return to the UK on the next available flight. Bond and Mathis dutifully ignore this threat and make their way to the centre of La Paz, where, posing as teachers who struck it rich on the lottery, check in to a notably expensive hotel. Agent Fields joins Bond in the hotel room, where she falls for Bond's charms.
The same night, Mathis provides Bond and Fields with invitations to a fund raiser being held by Greene. The trio visit the party, where Greene seems to be successful in soliciting funds following an impassioned speech to the guests of the party regarding the creation of nature reserves via purchased land. Camille then gatecrashes the party, creating an unwelcome distraction for Greene, who then threatens to kill Camille by throwing her off a broken first-floor balcony. It is at this point that Bond makes his appearance to Greene and his main accomplice, Elvis. Following a tense conversation, Bond and Camille leave the party, while in the meantime, Agent Fields cunningly trips Elvis, causing him to fall down a flight of concrete stairs. Bond and Camille exit to a
Range Rover Sport , which is then stopped by police. As Bond opens the boot lid of the vehicle, Rene Mathis, battered but alive, lies prone in the boot. As Bond picks Mathis up from the boot, the policemen open fire and gravely injure Mathis. Bond disarms the policemen and comforts the dying Mathis, who asks Bond to forgive the betrayal of Vesper Lynd. Mathis dies in the arms of Bond, who then dumps his body in the adjacent dumpster.
Bond and Camille then make their way to the location of Greene's intended land acquisition. They survey the area in a 50's
Douglas DC-3
propeller plane, where they are intercepted by a chopper and a fighter jet sent out by General Medrano. Bond and Camille successfully evade and defeat their pursuers after an airborne chase, but at the cost of a damaged plane. Bond and Camille escape to a sink hole, where the duo realise that Greene was not interested in oil, but supplies of fresh water, hidden in underground rivers. After this revelation, they return to La Paz. At the hotel, Bond is reunited with M and a cabal of MI6 operatives. M subsequently scolds Bond for his hitherto reckless actions. Bond then notices a darkened body lying face down on the double bed of the hotel room. The lifeless body is that of Agent Fields who, M states to Bond, was drowned in crude oil by forces allied to Quantum (Her body on the bed is positioned the same way as Jill Masterson's gold-painted body was in
Goldfinger ).
It is at this point that M effectively revokes Bond's licence to kill, and asks him to disarm and end his activities in Bolivia. Despite this, Bond escapes once more by overpowering several MI6 operatives accompanying him in a lift. After this escape Bond encounters and speaks to M, stating to her that he is not finished with his operation. Bond then leaves the hotel with the help of Camille. Bond makes contact with CIA ally
Felix Leiter , whom he then meets in a local bar. Not long after the encounter, the bar is swarming with counter-terrorist personnel with orders to capture Bond. Bond makes his escape from the bar and reunites with Camille.
The duo make their way to a remote hydrogen
fuel cell
run eco-hotel located in a barren piece of Bolivian desert. In the hotel are General Medrano and the Bolivian Colonel of Police, who await Greene and his entourage's arrival. Medrano then asks the hostess for a beer, which the hostess subsequently delivers. Greene and his men then arrive at the hotel, and proceed to initiate the land transfer process between him and Medrano. The Colonel receives his Euro cash payment as part of his support for the coup. It is also at this meeting that Greene decides to change the terms of the deal. Realising that Quantum has also infiltrated his key personnel, General Medrano reluctantly signs to the new deal. As the parties depart, Bond infiltrates the hotel, killing the departing Colonel of Police in the process. As the
Land Rover Defender
occupied by the Colonel reverses back into the parking space, it crashes into a set of hydrogen fuel tanks, thus setting off a chain of explosions that eventually decimate the hotel.
Meanwhile, Camille infiltrates the hotel via roof entry. In his hotel room, the General proceeds to rape the beer-serving hostess. Camille overhears the screams from the hostess and realises Medrano is in the same room. She kills the guards at Medrano's door, then proceeds to a fight with Medrano. At the same time, Bond is making his way up the hotel, subduing Greene's men and eventually reaching Greene. As the hotel continues to disintegrate, assisted by continuous explosions of hydrogen tanks, Bond and Greene engage in a fist-fight. The fight ends with Greene being injured in the foot by a fire axe. At this point, Bond overhears a gunshot from Medrano's room and leaves Greene to his fate. Bond finds a shaken Camille huddling as the room where the fight occurred falls to pieces. Bond and Camille eventually manage to escape the flame-strewn room by blowing a hole in the wall. Bond then sees a limping Greene escaping from the hotel. He easily catches up with him, and proceeds to pick up and drive him far away from the hotel. Bond then uncharacteristically lets Greene live, opting to leave the antagonist stranded in the middle of the desert and leaving him with a can of oil in the process. Bond and Camille then reach a station, where they have one final kiss before the duo part their ways.
In the last scene of the film, Bond is in a Russian town where he confronts
Vesper 's boyfriend, who is occupied with a Canadian agent, Corinne Veneau. It emerges that Vesper's boyfriend is a member of Quantum who becomes involved with high-ranking women to get them to give up government assets in order to save him when he gets purposefully taken hostage. Bond tells Corrine to alert the Canadian Intelligence Service that there is a leak and ushers her out of the room; he stays behind with the boyfriend. Bond then leaves the building and is confronted by M who is surprised that Bond did not kill Vesper's boyfriend. M also explains to Bond that Greene was found in the Bolivian desert with two shots in the head and a gut full of oil. Bond sets out, more focused than before, knowing that Mr. White and Quantum are still on the loose. The final shot is that of Vesper's necklace, of which Bond kept throughout the film, lying in the snow.
The film then ends on the signature
Gunbarrel Sequence .
Posted by
Gautam Venkatesh
at
12:43 AM
No comments:
Saturday, November 1, 2008
Pioneer XMp3 XM radio unveiled
Pioneer unveils its latest XMp3 XM radio
which claims to be the lightest XM radio available in the market.
Apart from tuning to several radio stations, the XM Radio also lets you play MP3 files.
You can save your favorite MP3 files on the microSD memory card. The XMp3 portable radio records up to 100 hours of XM programs as well as records multiple channels simultaneously. It also offers auto-record capability.
Pioneer XMp3 Portable XM Radio is expected to be priced around $280 (approx Rs.13,801).
Posted by
Gautam Venkatesh
at
11:12 PM
No comments:
MartinLogan Feature loudspeaker announced
MartinLogan’s Innovative New “Feature” Loudspeaker Uses Built In Amplifier to Reduce Wire Clutter
Available: November 2008
US Retail Price: $1,695/each
Lawrence, Kansas, October 31, 2008—MartinLogan is proud to announce the new “Feature” loudspeaker, a fully powered, high-resolution, electrostatic loudspeaker designed for use either on- or off-wall in center, front, or surround channel applications.
Internally powered with a high-resolution 150 watt switching amplifier the Feature allows an unprecedented level of system connection flexibility. A standard RCA line-level input minimizes wire clutter by connecting directly to on-wall televisions (and other devices) without the need for external amplifiers.
Additionally, standard speaker-level connections allow the fully powered Feature to integrate with audio systems where RCA connection is not possible. Consumers choosing to use the Feature with a traditional receiver will experience an enhanced sonic experience without the need to upgrade to a more expensive model.
A highly-sophisticated Vojtko™ crossover seamlessly blends the Feature’s state-of-the-art electrostatic transducer, neodymium soft-dome tweeter, dual low-distortion 5.25-inch woofers, and 150 watt amplifier to provide crisp, clear, MartinLogan sound across the entire frequency range.
For those seeking an ultimate performance, clutter-free home theater experience Feature perfectly matches MartinLogan’s fully powered Purity floor standing electrostatic loudspeaker and full line of low-distortion subwoofers.
“MartinLogan’s new fully powered loudspeakers really simplify home theater while still providing award-winning MartinLogan sound. They are a perfect match for the new generation of televisions and DVD players equipped with built-in surround sound decoding and volume control,” said Devin Zell, MartinLogan Assistant Marketing Manager.
About MartinLogan
MartinLogan, one of the most respected names in audio, is located in Lawrence, Kansas, where 80 employees handcraft the company's ultimate loudspeaker products. The speaker systems, incorporating MartinLogan's patented CLS™ (Curvilinear Line Source) high-resolution electrostatic technology and ATF™ (Advanced Thin Film) transducers, range in price from $299 to $30,000 (US Retail). The subwoofer systems range in price from $649 to $3,495 (US Retail).
Posted by
Gautam Venkatesh
at
10:58 PM
No comments:
Casio XJ-S Super Slim Projectors introduced
Casio America introduces four new Super Slim projectors with the DLP projection technology. The new additions to the Super Slim projectors are 1.69” with enhanced brightness and RS-232 connectivity.
The XJ-S32, XJ-S37, XJ-S42 and XJ-S47 projectors form a part of Casio’s Ultra Bright Series, apt for brightness applications and mobile presenters. With the new Super Slim projectors, Casio offers 2300-2700 ANSI lumens output and versatile 2X power zoom lens.
The XJ-S37 and XJ-S47 projectors equip USB, thus making PowerPoint and other presentations easy without a PC. Both these projectors let you wirelessly connect through an optional Wireless LAN adaptor, you can expand connectivity in the conference room by connecting up to four PCs at a time.
Posted by
Gautam Venkatesh
at
10:56 PM
No comments:
Dell S2209W and S2309W LCD Displays now official
Dell has officially announced two new LCD displays namely S2209W and S2309W.
The 22-inch S2209W and the 23-inch S2309W pack in 1,000:1 contrast ratio, 16:10 aspect ratio, a 5ms pixel response time, DVI with HDCP encryption and VGA.
Both the LCD displays offer full 1080p and let you conveniently play Blu-ray and other HD video. The displays offer amazing viewing experience without the black bars that generally appear with a 16:10 ratio LCD.
Apparently, the key difference between the two displays is the panel type, the S2209W uses lower-cost twisted nematic panel reducing the amount of visible colors while details of the S2309W display is not revealed.
Dell S2209W and S2309W LCD displays are priced at $239 (approx Rs.11,780) and $299 (approx Rs.14,737), Respectively.
Posted by
Gautam Venkatesh
at
10:45 PM
No comments:
Slim and sleek smartphone from Samsung
Samsung
has announced a new
headset the I7110 - that is based on S60 and Symbian OS. The handset, showcased for the first time at the Symbian Smartphone Show in London is a slim and sleek bar type smartphone that’s only 12.9-mm thick. Geesung Choi, President of Samsung’s Telecommunications Network Business, said, "The introduction of I7110, Samsung’s new Symbian OS-based smartphone, is a testament of our strategic focus on the open OS phone portfolio. With a strong partnership with Symbian and the increased momentum in the smartphone market, Samsung will continue to offer a wide selection of
mobile phones
meeting the needs and lifestyles of today’s consumers." Based on Symbian OS v9.3, S60 3rd Edition, Feature Pack 2, the I7110 is equipped with a 2.6-inch AMOLED (Active Matrix Organic Light Emitting Diode) screen, boasts GPS with geo-tagging and navigation capabilities in pedestrian and driving modes and comes with a 5MP auto-focus camera with an LED flash that has ‘smile shot’ and ‘blink shot’ functions. The I7110 offers advanced video recording and play features as it supports multi-codec formats including DivX. The I7110 comes equipped with HSDPA and Wi-Fi and also offers an 8-way optical mouse for navigation. It is A2DP compatible and supports
external memory via microSD cards (up to 16GB). According to Samsung, the I7110 will provide users with upto 11 hours of talktime. The Samsung I7110 will be available in Russia from November 2008 and will soon be introduced in other markets. The price hasn't been revealed yet.
Posted by
Gautam Venkatesh
at
10:41 PM
No comments:
LATEST CELL PHONE - SAMSUNG PIXON M8800
The Samsung Pixon M8800 is being marketed as “the world’s slimmest full-touch 8.0-megapixel camera phone”, at 13.8-mm thin.
Measuring 3.2-inch, the touchscreen is a 240 x 400 resolution-boasting WQVGA TFT LCD number. The camera has a 16x digital zoom, auto-focus, face detection and geo-tagging, and there’s even a dedicated photo browser to view and share your pics. Capture video footage at 30fps (720 x 480 resolution) or 120fps (QVGA), and even film in slow-mo. Play video in files including MPEG4, WMV, DivX and Xvid. There are a host of connectivity options; these include GSM, GPRS, EDGE as well as HSDPA at 7.2Mbps. You also get Bluetooth 2.0 and USB 2.0, a TV out connection. It features an internal memory of 200MB, however there’s the microSD card slot, so buy yourself one of those 16GB SanDisk cards and load it with thousands of tunes. As long as they’re in MP3, AAC, e-AAC+, e-AAC+ or WMA format
The Samsung Pixon M8800 will be available in the UK and Ireland from 1 November 2008 for prices that are as mysterious as UFO sightings occurring in USA only.
Posted by
Gautam Venkatesh
at
10:31 PM
No comments:
COWON 02
Cowon has officially confirmed that the new
Cowon O2
and S9 PMP will be available in November 2008. As a reminder, the Cowon O2 is a 4.3-inch AMOLED player with DMB support. Priced at around $698, the gadget provides nine hours of video playback. Meanwhile, the price tag for the COWON S9 is still unavailable at this time.
Posted by
Gautam Venkatesh
at
10:26 PM
No comments:
PARIS HILTON poses as a fairy for her latest perfume advert
PARIS HILTON
poses as a fairy for her latest
perfume
advert for her second
fragrance , Fairy Dust.
Wearing a gold boob tube, a barely-there skirt and stockings, Paris uses her
appeal to get the scent noticed,
SUN UK
reports.
It's due to hit stores this month.
Posted by
Gautam Venkatesh
at
9:45 PM
No comments:
LATEST SAREE DESIGN 2008
Latest saree design 2008:
Here is a transparent black saree with rose appliqué and interesting designs.
It seems that some of the roses are sewn on.
I have never been fond of appliqués, especially of the size used here. Really small ones look nice, but larger it gets, more fake it looks and detracts for the richness of the outfit.
Posted by
Gautam Venkatesh
at
9:59 AM
No comments:
ELECTRONIC WATCH 2008
ELECRONIC WATCH, WHOLESALE 2008 NEWEST AUTOMATIC WATCH, WRIST WATCH, FASHION WATCH, BRAND WATCH... Place of origin:
Switzerland
Model No:
RX015
Payment Terms:
T/T,Western Union,MoneyGram,PAYPAL
Minimum Order Quantity:
5 Piece/Pieces US$300
Supply Ability:
100,00 Piece/Pieces per
Month
Package:
The watch come With Original Box,care card and name tag .
Delivery Time:
It will takes 4-5 days for you to receive your items
Brand Name:
brand
Features Specifications: electronic watch , Wholesale 2008 Newest Automatic watch ,wrist watch , fashion watch,brand watch
electronic watch , Wholesale 2008 Newest Automatic watch ,wrist watch , fashion watch,brand watch .
Movement: Swiss ETA2824-2, which can keep 50 hours work very correctly Water resistance: 100metres/330feet
Case: Stainless steel
Bracelet/Strap: 316L Stainless steel
Quality: Super A Level
Our company established in 1998, and have experience in this field for 6 years, now we can supply 1000 different styles Watches in our stock, All the Watches are 100 best quality,
will come with Original packaging and accessory. Also there will be new items each month!
Most of our customers are from USA, UK, Canada, Australia and so on, they are all satisfied with our products and service. Of course they are receiving more and more positive feedbacks, and enlarging more and more market from their loyal old customers and interesting new customers.
If you are a new customer, first time you can order some samples to check the quality, so there is no minimum order request first time for new customer!
Wholesale the best quality ,best price watch , automatic watch
, wrist watch
, fashion watch , quartz watch , brand watch , swiss
watch
,
men's
watch ,
lady watch , women's watch
, designer watch, imitation watch . electronic watch . watches Serious Guarantee:
1. All the Watches are Super A Quality Level! We can guarantee you will be satisfied with our products.
2. If the Watches you received are not as our description or you are not satisfied with them, we will refund all the payment to you including shipping price.
3 . To get latest catalog list and quotation, please feel free to email to us or visit our company web site, we will be glad to reply you here without delay
Posted by
Gautam Venkatesh
at
9:32 AM
No comments:
CHANEL HOLIDAY 2008
It looks like nothing can stop the gold fever train that roared through the makeup world earlier this year, and now it’s chugging all the way to the holidays! Remember Chanel’s
Gold Fever Collection ? Well, Holiday 2008 is here, and — you guessed it! — gold (with touches of red, bronze and beige) still plays a starring role.
Some might say Chanel was too tame in the color department, but I’m liking the browns, beiges and golds. The look features neutral beige and brown eyes paired with either pink-gold or red lips. The face and cheeks glow with touches of gold with shimmery pink highlights. Mmm… I lurve Chanel. Lips
Le Crayon Levres Precision Lip Definer, $28
Rouge : true red
Rouge Allure Luminous Satin Lip Colour lipstick, $30
Nude : pale nude Exaltation : coral red (limited edition)
Aqualumiere Sheer Colour Lipshine SPF 15, $26
Cancun : soft beige
Creme Gloss Lumiere Brush-On Creme Lip Colour, $32
Praline Rose : pink bronze (limited edition) Canelé : warm bronze
Levres Scintillantes Glossimer, $26
Red Shine : red with shimmer Gold Shine : pink-gold with shimmer (limited edition)
Eyes
Les 4 Ombres Quadra Eye Shadow, $56
Beiges de CHANEL :
matte cream, shimmery taupe, shimmery gold and shimmery brown (limited edition)
Ombre D’Eau Fluid Iridescent Eyeshadow, $32
Riviera : pale gold (limited edition)
Le Crayon Yeux Precision Eye Definer, $27.50
Noir Scintillant : soft black with gold shimmer (limited edition)
La Ligne De Chanel Professional Eyeliner Duo, $45
Brun-Lamé : dark brown and soft brown sparkle (limited edition)
Nails
Le Vernis Nail Colour, $20
Perle Rosée : warm beige-pink (limited edition) Haute Chocolat : chic chocolate gold (limited edition)
Face
Eclat Lumiere Highlighter Face Pen, $38
Beige Rosé : highlighter with pink undertone
Gold Highlighting Powder, $75
A golden, loose powder for the face and body (limited edition)
I haven’t fully explored the products in this release, but here are a few pictures, swatches and some first impressions from a handful of items from the collection.
Beiges de CHANEL LES 4 OMBRES Quadra Eye Shadow
Every girl should have a few go-to browns and neutrals in her eye shadow stash, and the Beiges de Chanel quad fits the bill. If you’re new to makeup, consider starting your collection with this.
The shades in the quad run on the cool side. I’m partial to the shimmery, deep dark chocolate shade (has subtle gold flecks), with the shimmery taupe and shimmery gold shades a close tie for second. The matte beige is probably my least fave of the four as it looks a bit too cool for my skin tone (and feels a touch chalkier than the other three shades). Overall, this bad boy should rock as an everyday work palette.
Red Shine and Gold Shine Glossimers
Like Chanel’s fall release, the holiday collection includes a lovely gold limited edition Glossimer, this one called Gold Shine.
Gold Shine differs from her cousin, Gold Light Glossimer, which was a cooler, sheer gold gloss with golden glitter. Gold Shine has a warmer pink-gold color and richer pigmentation; it also lacks Gold Light’s big flecks of gold.
Gold Shine functions like a neutral on my lips and should look fabulous with a gold and brown smokey eye.
Red Shine, the second Glossimer in the collection, is a permanent member of the Chanel Glossimer family. This cool-toned red gets me fired up!
She’s not for the faint of heart or the lazy. Red Shine’s highly pigmented and quite high maintenance. But I love her. I think she’d look fab paired with a single wash of shimmery gold or taupe on the eyes and lots of Exceptionnel mascara.
Praline Rose CRÈME GLOSS LUMIÈRE Brush-On Creme Lip Colour
Unlike the Glossimers, which come with doe foot applicators, the Creme Gloss Lumiere lip glosses come with a brush. I think the formula feels thicker and stickier than Glossimers and gives a bit more coverage.
Gold Shine may have the sexier packaging, but this is definitely worth a look.
From left to right: Praline Rose, Red Shine, Gold Shine
Praline Rose packs more pink than shiny gold, but it still brings the shimmer. I like this shade and see it pairing well with brown or black smokey eyes. The color basically functions as a neutral on me, and I can even see it being appropriate for regular use in the spring.
Still Loving You, Coco
While Chanel’s
summer
and
spring
releases featured colors that made my heart flutter a bit more than this one does, Chanel Holiday 2008 does contain some highly wearable and lovely shades. Definitely check out the quad if you’re on the market for cool toned browns.
What say ye? Does Chanel Holiday 2008 do anything for your makeup soul?
Your friendly neighborhood beauty addict.........
Posted by
Gautam Venkatesh
at
9:21 AM
No comments:
Latest Beauty News & Press Releases
Latest Beauty News &
Press Releases
New Age-Fighting Eye Cream Eyelastin is Changing Skin Care Forever
In a cosmetic world that is filled with all sorts of age-fighting eye creams that generally tend to cost hundreds of dollars per bottle, Eyelastin, a new age-fighting eye cream from Dermagevity Skin Care, aims to offer a proven formula that is priced with a range that anybody can afford to buy and use it frequently.
By
Global Communications
-
November 01, 2008
New Eye Cream Eyevive Utilizes Micro Circulation Technology to Revitalize Skin
The world of cosmetics is always eagerly anticipating the next big breakthrough in age-fighting technology for skin care products. Eyevive, a revolutionary new eye cream created by Dermestetics, a leading skin care company, uses a patented micro circulation technology to increase the circulation of blood around the capillaries and normalize drainage.
By
Health Web Shopping
-
November 01, 2008
Anti-Wrinkle Cream Dermaxin Backs Immediate Product Performance with Clinical Proof
Consumers can spend thousands of dollars per year to receive sets of collagen injections, which are usually accompanied by an array of commonly known side effects like the loss of facial expressiveness and discomfort. However, a new anti-wrinkle cream, Dermaxin, created by Dermestetics—a leading skin care company—offers an equally effective and clinically proven topical treatment.
By
Health Web Shopping
-
November 01, 2008
Posted by
Gautam Venkatesh
at
9:10 AM
No comments:
DVD RELEASE
HENRY POOLE IS HERE DVD release on November 4, 2008
. When a man discovers that he has only six weeks to live, he leaves his job, his fiancee and his overbearing mother and tries to spend his remaining days in seclusion. But when a miracle transforms his life, his quirky neighbors disrupt his plan to live out his days in quiet desperation.
Henry Poole is Here
is a 2008 film directed by
Mark Pellington . The film premiered
January 21 , 2008 at the
2008 Sundance Film Festival . The film was picked up by
Overture Films
and will be released later in 2008. The movie has a planned release date of July 2, 2008 in Belgium.
The film also features an original soundtrack score "All Roads Lead Home (The Surrender Song)" written/sung by
James Grundler ; as performed by
Golden State . Cast
Luke Wilson
- Henry Poole George Lopez
- Father Salizar Radha Mitchell
- Dawn Stupek Morgan Lily - Millie Stupek Adriana Barraza
- Esperanza Cheryl Hines
- Meg Earl Carroll - Mr. Lawrence Noah Dahl
- Young Henry Poole Rachel Seiferth
- Patience Nick Dash
- Security Guard
Posted by
Gautam Venkatesh
at
5:38 AM
No comments:
DVD RELEASE
GET SMART DVD release on November 4, 2008
. The bumbling secret agent, Maxwell Smart, and his level-headed female partner, Agent 99, battle against the evil forces of KAOS.
Maxwell Smart is on a mission to thwart the latest plot for world domination by the evil crime syndicate known as KAOS. When the headquarters of U.S. spy agency Control is attacked and the identities of its agents compromised, the Chief has no choice but to promote his ever-eager analyst Maxwell Smart, who has always dreamt of working in the field alongside stalwart superstar Agent 23. Smart is partnered instead with the lovely-but-lethal veteran Agent 99. Given little field experience and even less time, Smart--armed with nothing but a few spy-tech gadgets and his unbridled enthusiasm--must thwart the doomsday plans of KAOS head Siegfried.
Cast
Actor
Role
Steve Carell
Maxwell Smart
Anne Hathaway
Agent 99
Dwayne Johnson
Agent 23
Alan Arkin
The Chief
Terence Stamp
Siegfried
Masi Oka
Bruce
Nate Torrence
Lloyd
Ken Davitian
Shtarker
Terry Crews
Agent 91
David Koechner
Larabee
James Caan
The President
Dalip Singh
Dalip
Bill Murray
Agent 13
Posted by
Gautam Venkatesh
at
5:16 AM
No comments:
Celtic Music Star Enya Releases 'And Winter Came'
On November 11, Warner Bros. Records will release Enya's new winter
album titled ' And
Winter Came .' Enya recorded the CD with her long time creative partners, producer/arranger Nicky Ryan and lyricist, Roma Ryan, at their studio near Dublin (Ireland).
Originally conceived as a Christmas record, ' And
Winter Came ' revealed itself to be a broader seasonal album during the recording of the ten original songs and two holiday classics. Says Enya, "I
always wanted to do a Christmas album, but as we began recording, I didn't feel it was right to impose a Christmas theme on certain songs ." Nicky Ryan elaborates,
"it evolved into more an Enya album based
in a winter landscape where Christmas arrives here and there. "
Posted by
Gautam Venkatesh
at
5:11 AM
No comments:
SciencE bOOks
Lycopene
Nutritional, Medicinal and Therapeutic Properties
Editors:
Victor R. Preedy:
Department of Nutrition and Dietetics, King's
College, London, UK
Ronald R. Watson:
School of Medicine, University of Arizona, Tuscon,
USA
ISBN 978-1-57808-538-5/ November 2008/ ca.480 pages, hc/ US $ 116.00
Tomatoes
have become a dietary staple for humans in many parts of the world. The characteristic
deep red color of the ripe tomato fruit and related products is mainly due
to lycopene. Lycopene is the predominant carotenoid in tomatoes, followed
by a-carotene, b-carotene, g-carotene, and phytoene, as well as by several
other minor carotenoids. Tomatoes and tomato-based foods have long been an
important source of lycopene in the Western diet.
There has been a growing interest in exploring the role of lycopene in the
prevention of a variety of nutritional and health issues in humans, including
some cancers and cardiovascular diseases. Recently, many case studies using
cell cultures, animal models, and epidemiological investigations have shown
a relationship between lycopene intake and a lowered risk of contracting some
cancers and various chronic diseases. Increasingly, clinical evidence supports
the role of lycopene as a nutrient with important health benefits, since it
appears to provide protection against a broad range of epithelial cancers.
The possibility that consumption of lycopene-rich foods may reduce the risk
of such diseases has prompted numerous in-depth studies of the levels of lycopene
in foods and of correlations between dietary lycopene and certain diseases.
This monograph will serve as a reference for providing a better understanding
of the role of lycopene in promoting health, and by encouraging a deeper understanding
of approaches to a healthy diet and life.
CONTENTS
Part 1: Characterization of Lycopene from Chemistry to Basic Physiological
Functions
- Lycopene Overview: What it is and What it Does: Robert M. Diener and Mildred
S. Christian
- Stability of Lycopene During Food Processing and Storage: John Shi and Sophia
Jun Xue
- Lycopene Metabolites: Apo-lycopenals: Nikki A. Ford and John W. Erdman,
Jr.
- Non-covalent Binding of Lycopene and Lycophyll: Zsolt Bikadi, Peter Hari,
Eszter Hazai, Samuel F. Lockwood and Ferenc Zsila
- Risk Assessment of Lycopene: Andrew Shao and John N. Hathcock
Part 2: Biochemical and Physiological Features of Lycopene's Effects
- Lycopene and Peroxynitrite Modifications: Kaampwe Muzandu, Kennedy Choongo
and Shoichi Fujita
- Lycopene and Down-regulation of Cyclin D1, pAKT and pBad: Rosanna Sestito
and Paola Palozza
- Lycopene and Chylomicrons: Kathleen M. Botham and Elena Bravo
- Lycopene and Chromosomal Aberrations: Lusânia Maria Greggi Antunes
and Maria de Lourdes Pires Bianchi
- Lycopene and Lycopene-enriched Prostasomes: A. Goyal, M. Chopra and Alan
Cooper
- Topically Applied Lycopene and Antioxidant Capacity: Marco Andreassi and
Lucio Andreassi
- Lycopene and Cardiovascular Diseases: Martha Verghese, Rajitha Sunkara,
Louis Shackelford and Lloyd T. Walker
- Effects of Lycopene and Monounsaturated Fat Combination on Serum Lycopene,
Lipid and Lipoprotein Concentrations: K.D.K. Ahuja and Madeleine Joyce Ball
- Lycopene: Cataract and Oxidative Stress: S.K. Gupta, S. Srivastava, R. Agarwal
and S.S. Agrawal
- Lycopene and Bone Tissue: L.G. Rao and E.S. Mackinnon
Part 3: Lycopene and Cancer
- Lycopene and Its Potential Role in Prostate Cancer Prevention: A. Trion,
F.H. Schröder and W.M. van Weerden
- Lycopene and Urokinase Receptor Expression in Prostate Cancer Cells: I.
Sehgal D.V.M.
- Lycopene and Lung Cancer: Fuzhi Lian and Xiang-Dong Wang
- Breast Cancer and Lycopene: Nasséra Chalabi, Yves-Jean Bignon and
Dominique J. Bernard-Gallon
- Lycopene and Colon Cancer: Martha Verghese, Judith Boateng, Louis Shackelford
and Lloyd T.Walker .
Phenotypic plasticity of Insects
(Mechanisms and Consequences)
Douglas Whitman and T.N. Ananthakrishnan (eds.)
978-1-57808-423-4/ November 2008/ ca.600 pages, hc/ US$ 135.00
This book explores the profound importance of phenotypic plasticity as a central
organizing theme for understanding biology. Chapters take a broad, integrative
approach to explain how physical and biological environmental stimuli (temperature,
photoperiod, nutrition, population density, predator presence, etc.), influence
insect biochemical, physiological, learning, and developmental processes, altering
phenotype, which then influences performance, ecology, life-history, survival,
fitness, and subsequent evolution. Topics include endocrinology, development,
body size, allometry, polyphenism, reproduction, reproductive and life-history
tradeoffs, alternative mating and life-history strategies, density-dependent
prophylaxis, physiological adaptation, acclimation, homeostasis, heat-shock
proteins, learning, adaptive anti-predator behavior, and evolution of phenotypic
plasticity.
Contents
- What is Phenotypic Plasticity and Why is it Important?: Douglas W. Whitman
- Phenotypic Plasticity and the Semantics of Polythenism: A Historical Review
and Current Perspectives: Michael Canfield and Erick Greene
-Phenotypic Plasticity and the Origins of Diversity: A Case Study on Horned
Beetles: Armin P. Moczek
o Developmental Flexibility, Phenotypic Plasticity, and Host Plants: A Case
Study with Nemoria Caterpillars: Erick Greene and Michael Canfield
o Phase Polyphenism in Locusts: Mechanisms, Population, Consequences, Adaptive
Significance and Evolution: Stephen J. Simpson and Gregory A. Sword
o Density-Dependent Prophylaxis in Insects: Kenneth Wilson and Sheena C. Cotter
o Natural Enemy-Induced Plasticity in Plants and Animals: Douglas W. Whitman
and Leon Blaustein
o A Behaviorally Plasticity Response to Risk of Predation: Oviposition Site
Selection by a Mosquito in Response to its Predators: Leon Blaustein and Douglas
Whitman
o Polyphenisms in Lepidoptera: Multidisciplinary Approaches to Studies of Evolution
and Development: P.M. Brakefield and W.A. Frankino
o Causes and Consequences of Phenotypic Plasticity in Body Size: The Case of
the Yellow Dung Fly Scathophaga stercoraria (Diptera: Scathophagidae): Wolf
U.
Blanckenhorn
o She Shapes Events as they Come: Plasticity in Female Insect Reproduction:
Jason Hodin
o Temperature Dependence of Development Rate, Growth Rate and Size: From Biophysics
to Adaptation: Gerdien de Jong and Tom M. van der Have
o The Developmental-Physiological Basis of Phenotypic Plasticity: H. Frederik
Nijhout and Goggy Davidowitz
o Wing Polymorphism in Gryllus (Orthoptera: Gryllidae) Proximate Endocrine,
Energetic and Biochemical Mechanisms Underlying Morph Specialization for Flight
vs.
Reproduction: Anthony J. Zera
o Evolution of Homeostatic Physiological Systems: H. Arthur Woods
o Acclimation as Adaptive Phenotypic Plasticity: Douglas W. Whitman
o Heat Shock Proteins and their Role in Generating, Maintaining and Even Preventing
Alternative Insect Phenotypes: Jason B. Williams, Stephen P. Roberts, and Michelle
M.
Elekonich
o Learned Host Preferences: Andrew B. Barron
o On the Origins of Insect Hormone Signaling: Jason Hodin
o Phenotypic Plasticity and Evolvability: An Empirical Test with Experimental
Evolution: Henrique Teotonio et al.
Posted by
Gautam Venkatesh
at
4:47 AM
No comments:
NOVEMBER CHILD
Director: Christian Schwochow, Release Date: 20.11.2008
Malchow, GDR, 1980. 20-year-old Anne is hiding Juri, a deserter of the Red Army. The two fall in love with each other. But their love is threatened: there is an arrest warrant and possibly a death sentence waiting for Juri. The two leave the country and flee to the West, leaving Anne’s six-month-old daughter Inga behind. Inga grows up with her grandparents and thinks that her mother died during a swimming accident. 25 years later she meets the literature professor Robert, who sends her on the trail of her past. He met Inga’s mother Anne during one of his seminars. At first Inga is resistant, but then she asks for Robert’s help. Together they take off on a journey through Germany, in search of Inga’s mother Anne...
Source: German Films Service & Marketing GmbH
Posted by
Gautam Venkatesh
at
4:30 AM
No comments:
A YEAR AGO IN WINTER
Director: Caroline Link, Release Date: 13.11.2008
Malchow, GDR, 1980. 20-year-old Anne is hiding Juri, a deserter of the Red Army. The two fall in love with each other. But their love is threatened: there is an arrest warrant and possibly a death sentence waiting for Juri. The two leave the country and flee to the West, leaving Anne’s six-month-old daughter Inga behind. Inga grows up with her grandparents and thinks that her mother died during a swimming accident. 25 years later she meets the literature professor Robert, who sends her on the trail of her past. He met Inga’s mother Anne during one of his seminars. At first Inga is resistant, but then she asks for Robert’s help. Together they take off on a journey through Germany, in search of Inga’s mother Anne...
Source: German Films Service & Marketing GmbH
Posted by
Gautam Venkatesh
at
4:02 AM
No comments:
PALERMO SHOOTING
Director: Wim Wenders, Release Date: 27.11.2008
As a successful photographer of world-wide renown, Finn leads a life that is as prominent as it is hectic. He gets by with very little sleep, his cell phone is never still, and the music from his headphones is his most constant companion. But when his life suddenly spins out of control, Finn takes off and leaves everything behind. His journey leads him from Duesseldorf to Palermo. There he finds himself persecuted by a mysterious shooter who’s after him with a vengeance. At the same time a whole new life is beginning for Finn. And a great love...
Source: German Films Service & Marketing GmbH
Posted by
Gautam Venkatesh
at
3:58 AM
No comments:
Newer Posts
Older Posts
Home
Subscribe to:
Posts (Atom)
Followers
Blog Archive
▼
2008
(29)
▼
November
(27)
madhur bhadarkar Latest Movie:Fashion Movie Review...
Electronic Arts Makes Games for Google Android Mob...
New Game Releases for the Week of November 2, 2008...
Quantum of Solace
Pioneer XMp3 XM radio unveiled
MartinLogan Feature loudspeaker announced
Casio XJ-S Super Slim Projectors introduced
Dell S2209W and S2309W LCD Displays now official
Slim and sleek smartphone from Samsung
LATEST CELL PHONE - SAMSUNG PIXON M8800
COWON 02
PARIS HILTON poses as a fairy for her latest perfu...
LATEST SAREE DESIGN 2008
ELECTRONIC WATCH 2008
CHANEL HOLIDAY 2008
Latest Beauty News & Press Releases
DVD RELEASE
DVD RELEASE
Celtic Music Star Enya Releases 'And Winter Came'
SciencE bOOks
NOVEMBER CHILD
A YEAR AGO IN WINTER
PALERMO SHOOTING
SN-C001 MODEL
The Matador" - In Theaters October 31, 2008
"The Other End Of The Line" - In Theaters October ...
"The Haunting of Molly Hartley" - In Theaters Octo...
►
October
(2)
About Me
Gautam Venkatesh
This is Gautam Venkatesh.
View my complete profile