Sashimi Girl in Stroud Green: It's Franklin's with friends, preceded by kitty and cocktails
Sashimi Girl in Stroud Green
Thursday, 18 August 2011
It's Franklin's with friends, preceded by kitty and cocktails
A fine forkful - find out of what further down
So, here I am, in Stroud Green, being virtuous and updating my blog (and having a rest day from the gym).  I'm listening to my birthday present from Dalston, magical violin sonatas by
Biber .  I'm a very lucky woman.  And what better way to illustrate this than to describe the delights of my birthday, spent with Scarlett, Rhett and, you know who...
Misty
It was a day which, like Mary Poppins [don't you just love Julie Andrews?  I do] was practically perfect in every way.  Dalston was in Deutschland, admittedly, but I was consoled for his absence with wonderful company and the odd...
Passion fruit Martini
cocktail (or three).  First up was the passion fruit Martini, made with vodka (at my request), by Scarlett.  Truly scrumptious.  A teensy bit difficult in the pouring from the shaker due to the presence of the passion fruit seeds.  So, for the second bite at
Difford's #9 , we went for the margarita.
Margarita
Scarlett apologised for the lack of margarita glasses and asked if I minded drinking from a martini glass.  Do you know the answer to this very polite question?  I bet you can guess if you've read more than one of my posts!  Of course not, said I.  I'm dedicated to being a very obliging guest.  It's not even a sacrifice really, it just comes naturally to me.  Margaritas, dangerous things, delicious, but dangerous.  I only got the one (good thing too), because next it was...
Misty
Oh no, it wasn't.  That's Misty again.  I know, fluffy, it's  very  tiring being so beautiful, isn't it?  Actually, I don't know.  If she were a human, she'd be a supermodel keeping us all in a style to which we are sadly unaccustomed.  Oh yes, the final cocktail was a
Vesper .  Utterly delicious.  So, we were well set up to stroll across the common to
Franklin's  in Dulwich.
Great Vesper
The
à la carte was tempting, however, the set menu had sufficient on it to satisfy our requirements which were...
Scarlett's starter
Rabbit liver with
fris ée and (looks like salsify but isn't) radish.  Tasted very delicious as did my and Rhett's...
Sprats on toast
I found them a bit dry, but they were juicy, well-cooked, and totally edible.  It was simply that they needed something to give them a lift and lubrication.  Not lemon juice.  I'm thinking of tartare sauce as someone who shouldn't and it's not that, but something creamy to oil the wheels.  Just as an aside, there's no-one who reads this blog who's going to try and bone a sprat, is there?  Besides, they are oily fish, crammed full of healthy omega-3, and as with the slightly larger sardines they'd have grown into if we hadn't eaten them, the bones are not only edible but good for you.
I'm going to make a confession now.  You know how one sometimes wishes one had ordered what others' have instead?  Or is it just me?  On this occasion, I wish I'd done the rabbit livers and what Rhett was having.  Not that Scarlett's and my ox heart with chorizo, chicory and capers (not non-pareil one though, or at least my non-pareil capers are much smaller than these ones) wasn't delicious.  It was.
Ox heart with chicory, chorizo and capers
Look.
See what I mean about the capers though?
And we had it with the usual, absolutely perfect, crisp on the outside, fluffy on the inside..
Franklin's perfect chips
And for extra vitamins...
Buttered cabbage
But just take a gander at Rhett's...
Main course
That's a ham hock hash with a fried duck egg.  Perhaps it
is
just me.  And we do share, you know, so I do get to taste things.  It's just a very luscious dish.  Here, I'll show you what I mean.
Luscious ham hock hash with fried duck egg
It's something one could conceivably cuddle up to (in the autumn perhaps, but I'd do it any time) gastronomically rather than literally speaking.  The puddings were more than up to scratch.  I have a theory about Franklin's which is that they do tarts very well.  Hence my choice of...
Butterscotch tart with cream
Scarlett's a baker and she told me that my pastry was as perfect as it's possible to get tart-wise.  The butterscotch was yummy, the edge of the pastry perfectly crisp and melt in the mouth.  I could have eaten all the cream (and I'm not usually a big fan of cream - except ice cream of course), but I didn't.
Rhett chose the fool.
Scarlett focuses on Rhett's gooseberry fool
﻿﻿﻿And Scarlett went for the lemon cake.
Cake with vanilla cream
We'd toyed with the idea of and ordered a cheeseboard to share (and to round things off).  Unfortunately, the cheese was not up to standard.  It consisted of three cheeses, including a  Montgomery  (I think, although it might have been  Keen's ) Cheddar.  Now, we know our cheeses.  Rhett and I, in particular, are cheesehounds.  The ageing process generally produces what might be termed an age line, a dark, discoloured area, which can run through the cheese.  Really good cheese shops like
La Fromagerie  and
Neal's Yard Dairy  who truly understand not only about sourcing quality produce, but also storage and, in the case of cheese, the affinage or maturation process (bringing a cheese on to its peak condition) excise this bit of cheese.  In fact when I was buying Christmas cheese for Scarlett, Rhett and myself at Neal's Yard Dairy in Borough Market before Christmas, this was very carefully done - and it's worth saying that all parts of the cheese which were not up to the mark or were simply the ends of the cheeses concerned were chucked.  What neither they, nor restaurants who understand good cheese, do is serve a stale, old bit of cheese, hidden under some flatbread.  Nor when we sent it back do the chef have a conversation with his sous about how we don't understand cheese and come back with pentagonally-cut long oblong of the same.  By this stage, quite honestly, I'd gone off the whole idea anyway, because it wasn't fun any more.  A shame.  I'm sure I will be delighted to go back to Franklin's, but I won't be ordering the cheese again.
What it couldn't do is dampen the wonderful experience of spending my birthday with very dear, kind and loving friends.  I know I seem to spend a lot of time saying this on my posts but really - lucky, lucky me.  So, here's to you, with many thanks just for being you.
Rhett and Scarlett
and of course,
Misty and Scarlett share deep thoughts on life, love and the pursuit of catnip bananas
Posted by
Sashimi Girl in Stroud Green
at
16:30
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share to Pinterest
1 comment:
Sashimi Girl in Stroud Green 20 August 2011 at 07:39 Worked out that a horseradish cream (would go well with the smoky, oily bass notes of the sprats) might be a suitable lubrication. Reply Delete Add comment Load more...
Newer Post
Older Post
Home
Subscribe to:
Post Comments (Atom)
There was an error in this gadget
Followers
Subscribe To
Posts
Atom
Posts
Comments
Atom
Comments
Follow by Email
Blog Archive
▼
2011
(44)
►
October
(4)
►
September
(7)
▼
August
(9)
I get my birthday cake... and eat it
You can do your würstchen (but you're not doing mi...
It's Franklin's with friends, preceded by kitty an...
A canine deficiency is remedied by Kulu Kulu Sushi...
Let's all have some figgy pudding...
Sushi of Shiori - exquisite food and company
She's delicious, she's delightful - Scarlett cooks...
Tender meat - spiced to savour
It's About Thyme with Alexander the Great
►
July
(16)
►
June
(7)
►
May
(1)
About Me
Sashimi Girl in Stroud Green
London, United Kingdom
I've recently fallen in love with my life for the first time ever.
On the basis that it's good to share - a kind of squid pro quo - I'm looking forward to showing and sharing my appreciation for - in no particular order - life, love, food, but mostly food, in Stroud Green, London, the world, but mostly London.
View my complete profile
My Blog List
London Eater
Sabi Omakase, Stavanger Norway
7 hours ago
Chocolate & Zucchini
12 Amazing Instagram Accounts for Paris Lovers
1 day ago
Cheese and Biscuits
Cheese and Biscuits On Tour - Jersey (part 2)
2 days ago
Greedy Gourmet
Shake Shack
2 days ago
The English Can Cook
10 things to eat and drink in Cretan cuisine
2 days ago
Kavey Eats
Markets of Canada | Montreal’s Marché Jean-Talon
2 days ago
Hollow Legs
Stir-Fried Pork & Cucumber
3 days ago
Global: Jay Rayner | guardian.co.uk
Vico: restaurant review | Jay Rayner
3 days ago
Burgerac
Lamb Burger by Jessica Dance
6 days ago
Tamarind and Thyme
Munich Eating, Part 2
1 week ago
Young & Foodish
Slinging Slices of Pizza in London’s West End
1 week ago
The London Foodie
How to Host a Great Dinner Party - My Top Tips!
2 weeks ago
EatingAsia
Recipe
2 weeks ago
The Skinny Bib
rolex replica 9312
2 weeks ago
Rococo Chocolate Blog
Salty and Sweet for Chocolate Week
3 weeks ago
Peckham Rye Eats
SPANAKOPITA
5 weeks ago
Souvlaki For The Soul
Feta Dumplings
1 month ago
Burger Me! A London Burger Blog
New York Burger Tour in 36 hours
1 month ago
Gastrogeek
a sandwich for racists
1 month ago
delicious:days
Elderberry Jelly – Save the Best for Last
2 months ago
A Slice of Cherry Pie
The Journey of Life
5 months ago
The Lambshank Redemption
Like Frank Sinatra...
6 months ago
The Spice Spoon
Nowruz – Rosewater Shortbread with Chocolate and Pistachio
7 months ago
Essex Eating
Recipe - Spiced root veg with kale and yoghurt
7 months ago
meemalee's kitchen
Totoro Cream Puffs - Shirohige's Cream Puff Factory, Tokyo
7 months ago
Cherrapeno
Nearly Christmas...
10 months ago
Wild Yeast
Marzipan Stollen
10 months ago
Dan Lepard
Five-spice sesame biscuits
11 months ago
Syrian Foodie in London
Food From the Levant
1 year ago
Gin and Crumpets
Gin tasting: Blackwoods Vintage Dry Gin
1 year ago
Eat.St
KERB is the word
1 year ago
Eat Noodles Love Noodles
Time To Say Goodbye
2 years ago
No Reservations
Vai Milano
2 years ago
a forkful of spaghetti
learning to QOOQ
2 years ago
The English can eat
3 years ago
The Cheeselover
Why can't we have cheese bars in Britain?
3 years ago
Street Food Stories
A Proven Theory
3 years ago
Meat and Two Veg
Preview: Midnight Steak Out Extravagansa
3 years ago
Chez Pim
Curry night @ The Picnic Basket – a fundraising for Thai flood victims
3 years ago
DOS HERMANOS: GO EVERYWHERE, EAT EVERYTHING
NORTHALL: DINING IN THE SHINING
4 years ago
A Taste of Tottenham
New Year's Feast
4 years ago
street cuisine
Andy Hayler's Restaurant, Food and Hotel Guide
Search This Blog
Loading...
Pages
Home
sashimigirlinstroudgreen asserts her copyright to all material published on this site. Awesome Inc. template. Powered by
Blogger .