What’s your drink ?
| loony radio
Home About
loony radio
Stay updated via RSS
Recent Posts
Fifty Shades of Porn
Book Review : HMS Ulysses
Om beach, Gokarna
Tapovan : a place to die for
Sherlock : The BBC TV Series
Pearl Jam !!
Sex, Lies and a TV Show
1000 Hits!! Cheers!!!!!
The Best Love Story Ever
Sitcom review: Castle
469
The Next President of India
Paradise Pondicherry
Satyajit Ray – The Visionary
Book Review : The Hunger Games
Blog Stats
9,155 hits
facebook
facebook
Follow Blog via Email
Enter your email address to follow this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Join 20 other followers
Archives
June 2012  (3)
May 2012  (12)
April 2012  (2)
January 2012  (7)
December 2011  (3)
swarnabha , subhojit
subhojit / swarnabha
What’s your drink ?
Posted: January 4, 2012 in
Drinks ,
Music ,
refreshment
Tags:
Big Lebowski ,
Chivas Regal ,
Cocktail ,
Drinks ,
Hollywood ,
James Bond ,
Jeff Bridges ,
Lost in Translation ,
On the rocks ,
Vodka ,
Whiskey
8
Image via Wikipedia
It was 2:30 am, 3 liters down, New Years eve. I was sweating , trying hard to sit straight on the couch  while my head was spinning like a merry-go-round. I saw  my  two brothers  were carrying my sloshed brother-in-law  in hope of bringing him into senses by forcing him to take a shower.
I have always wanted to drink like a gentleman specially if I am drinking something like
Chivas Regal
12 years old. Like suited Hollywood characters filling the glass with ice cubes as it makes the twinkling sound, then pouring the sparkling gold-colored scotch from an elegant looking bottle slowly into it. A perfect Hollywood  moment. But alas,  I ended up doing clumsy
bhangra
to the song “munni badnam hui ” and puked the next morning.
I decided I should limit myself to Blender’s Pride. The problem with drinking these expensive scotch is you keep drinking it because it is much much much smoother than regular whiskey and then when it hits you ? you won’t get time to recover, the world will spin and you will end up cursing yourself like me. Anyways, I missed my chances with the Chivas, but you should not miss it. I figured out that one should follow three rules while drinking expensive scotch :
1. It must be served on the rocks.
2. Consumed slowly.
3. You should limit yourself to 4 or 5 pegs or else the taste buds will not respond and you will not be able to enjoy the rich flavor.
Drink like James Bond drinking
Vesper , Bill Murray drinking scotch in the movie
Lost in Translation
, Jeff Bridges drinking
White Russian
in the movie
The Big Lebowski
, Robert Duvall aka Captain drinking
Mojito
in the movie
Thank you for smoking
or any other rich aristocrats who drinks like them.
This slideshow requires JavaScript.
However alluring it might look on movie screen but honestly it is not always possible for general crowd like us to drink like that. So we are conducting a poll so that we get know each others drinks. Since it is humanely not possible to mention all of the brand names on the list, we are only mentioning the types of drinks on the poll . However feel free to let us know what’s your brand through comments  so that we can be more knowledgeable in this noble subject. Lets see how many drinks we come up with , so that we can try out each others choices.
Drink responsibly. Cheers!!
Take Our Poll
Related articles
Purple haze: What party drinks look like magnified 1,000 times – and this one is just a vodka and tonic
(dailymail.co.uk)
White Russian Recipe
(mademan.com)
Most Expensive Whiskey
(celebritynetworth.com)
Possibly the Most Underrated Drink of All Time The White Russian
(tbseblog.com)
Share this: Twitter Facebook Google Like this: Like
Loading...
Related
Comments
Anushree
says:
January 5, 2012 at 11:02 am
The smoothest scotch I have ever had was Black Dog.. Loved it.. It was so smooth and silky.. The physical equivalent of the taste would be running a soft silk scarf or tie through your fingers.. Hmmm….
My favourite cocktail is of course the Mojito.. However, it is my cursed lot that so far only two pubs have managed to get it exactly right, the rest make it too sweet or too watery or just plain and simple blah!!!! Those two places were Le Space in Pondicherry and @Live in New Delhi..
But last year I tasted JD for the first time and I was blown away.. I looouuuuuwed the rich woody flavour and aftertaste in my mouth.. and I have been hankering for round two ever since..
:P
Reply
subhojit / swarnabha
says:
January 5, 2012 at 11:08 am
lucky me ,
I was at both the mojito incidents and the JD incident too … don’t worry we will surely have the second round
:)
Reply
Samik Barua Choudhury
says:
January 5, 2012 at 10:19 pm
donn blame the stuff cz f ur irrspnsbl drnkng………
it rqrs lts f experience to knw and undrstand the true taste nd flavr f a scotch……. ppl whos lstng jimi hndrx fr d frst tm ll defly say wht a crap……
but u go on listng more nd more the real jimi wll unfold …..
likewise to knw the true flvr of sctch u ve to cntnu………..
3 cheers fr scotch…………….
Reply
pritha
says:
January 5, 2012 at 10:32 pm
Can only say CHEERS!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
Reply
subhojit / swarnabha
says:
January 5, 2012 at 11:06 pm
well definitely scotch is not crap …tauba tauba …its just that it is not supposed to be drank plenty at a time
:)
Reply
Anushree
says:
January 6, 2012 at 11:00 am
It could be drunk plenty at a time but it just needs to be done right.. I know of two people who finished one bottle between them..
I think scotch is more like an acquired taste.. Not exactly for amateurs..
:P
Definitely hazardous to combine it with “Munni badnaam”!!!!
:D
Reply
Madhubanti Mukerji
says:
January 6, 2012 at 10:10 pm
hmm…hard to vote for just one. I’ll tell you why. Read below.
For never-ending ‘adda’ sessions- Beer, as you can drink as much as you want, easiest drink to keep on drinking. My absolute favorite is Guinness.
When socializing/on a creative drive (drink/make)- Cocktail [especially Mojito], Vodka.
When drinking with JD [ who happens to be my husband and not a drink]- Rum. Captain Morgan’s Original Spiced Rum, to be exact.
While enjoying my own company- Scotch.It goes very well with a book or a solitary card game and some appropriate music. It’s almost like a pet you could cuddle up with
:)
My drink is Laphroaig-smooth and woody.
As I habitually drink Scotch, I can’t say much about Whiskey. But JD (the drink) is one of the good ones that I’ve tried. A close second is Blue Label.
When feeling adventurous- time to try out country liquors and all kinds of liqueurs with coffee. Sambuca with just ice tastes pretty nice. One can even flame it, but I haven’t tried that yet. I tried Sake which wasn’t very impressive. I’m currently looking forward to try out Raki.
When Cooking- Wine
:P
When trying to get drunk- try all of above with tequila shots in between. I did it once and will hopefully do it never ever. First you feel the pain of dying and then the morning after you’d feel like the walking-dead, if you had the energy to leave your bed, that is. I had the good sense to remain in mine
:)
Here’s a toast to all the merry drinkers and drunkards. May we all drink our fill this year.
Cheers!
Reply
subhojit / swarnabha
says:
January 6, 2012 at 10:23 pm
Thanks Tua for sharing, that was quite lovely. Hoping to share a drink with you when you come home.
Keep up the spirits !!
:)
Reply
Leave a Reply
Cancel reply
Enter your comment here...
Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:
Email
(required)
(Address never made public)
Name
(required)
Website
You are commenting using your WordPress.com account.
(  Log Out  /  Change  )
You are commenting using your Twitter account.
(  Log Out  /  Change  )
You are commenting using your Facebook account.
(  Log Out  /  Change  )
You are commenting using your Google+ account.
(  Log Out  /  Change  )
Cancel
Connecting to %s
Notify me of new comments via email.
Notify me of new posts via email.
Why I HATE This Kolaveri Di.
An Open Letter to Deepika Padukone
Blog at WordPress.com . |
The Greyzed Theme .
%d
bloggers like this: