DURAN DURAN GREATEST HITS: May 2009
�
Pimp-My-Profile.com
THOUSANDS OF FREE BLOGGER TEMPLATES
�
skip to main
|
skip to sidebar
Tuesday, May 12, 2009
NICK RHODES
Nick Rhodes
(born Nicholas James Bates on June 8,1962) is the keyboardist for
Duran Duran . Rhodes and singer
Simon Le Bon
are the only members to have been with the band throughout its 29-year professional career (beginning in 1980). Furthermore, Rhodes is the youngest band member and the only member that has been with the band since its creation in 1978.
He has also released albums with
Arcadia
in 1985 (a Duran Duran side-project), as well as
The Devils
in 2002 with
Stephen Duffy
who was the singer of Duran Duran when they formed in 1978.
Early history
Nick Bates was the only child of well-off parents, the owners of a
Birmingham
toy store. In 1978, Bates left school at the age of sixteen, and founded Duran Duran with his art school friend
John Taylor . At about the same time as the name Duran Duran was chosen for the band, he decided to change his name, allegedly due to being taunted by classmates with the moniker "Master Bates", to
Rhodes
after the
Greek island . He attended Woodrush High School in Hollywood Birmingham.
As the band coalesced into its final lineup in 1979-80, Duran Duran started playing at a local
Birmingham
club called " The Rum Runner ". The club owners became the band's managers, and
Rhodes
began working at the club as a
disc jockey .
Contributions to Duran Duran
The band achieved rapid success, and Rhodes was a driving force throughout. An unschooled musician, he loved experimenting with the sounds his
analog synthesizers
were capable of, but shied away from the "novelty" sounds of some other early synth bands. The distinctive warble of " Save A Prayer ," the keyboard stabs of " A View to a Kill ," and the string sounds of " Come Undone " and " Ordinary World " are some of his most recognizable creations. He also popularized the
Crumar
Performer on the early records.
Rhodes was also quick to recognize the potential of the
music video , and pushed the band to put more effort into their early videos than seemed warranted at the time (before the advent of MTV). His contributions to the band were sometimes underestimated by contemporaries and critics. Barely twenty when the band hit major stardom, he cultivated an androgynous and sometimes flamboyant image, wore heavy makeup, and changed his hair colour at whim. As the band "grew up" in the public eye, however, Rhodes's intelligence, determination, and incisive dry humour became well-known to fans and fellow musicians. He is known as the holder of the Duran Duran flame and in fact owns the rights to the Duran Duran name.
By the late 1990s, Rhodes had begun writing lyrics for Duran Duran, as well as music. His digitally altered voice is heard on the title track to the 1997 album
Medazzaland .
In 2001, the original five members of Duran Duran reunited to record new music; see
Duran Duran
for details.
Record production
Rhodes studied production techniques while in the studio with Duran Duran, eventually helping to mix several tracks on the
Rio
album, and was a co-producer on many of the band's later albums.
In early 1983, he discovered the band
Kajagoogoo
and co-produced their debut single
Too Shy
which became a UK no.1 (prior to any of Duran's singles reaching no.1).
Rhodes and
Warren Cuccurullo
wrote and produced three tracks for the
Blondie
reunion album in 1996; the tracks were not used, but one song called "Pop Trash Movie" was later recorded by Duran Duran for the 2000 album
Pop Trash .
In 2002, Rhodes co-produced and played additional synthetizers in nine tracks of the album
Welcome To The Monkeyhouse
by
The Dandy Warhols . In 2004 he produced British-based pop group
Riviera F
for their debut EP
International Lover , published on Pop Cult/Tape Modern (Rhodes & Stephen Duffy’s label).
Side projects
With his bandmates
Simon Le Bon
and
Roger Taylor , Rhodes formed the side project
Arcadia
while Duran was on hiatus in 1985. The band had a moody, keyboard-heavy sound, far more atmospheric than Duran Duran (or the hard rock of the other Duran splinter group of 1985,
Power Station ). The band scored a major hit with "Election Day" and the band's only album,
So Red The Rose , went platinum in the US but was less successful in their native UK. The band never toured and was dissolved when Duran Duran regrouped in 1986.
Throughout the 1990s, Rhodes worked on a side project called
TV Mania
with Duran bandmate Cuccurullo. They created a self-described "social junk culture triptych opera" composed of music, dialogue, samples, and "found sound," and hoped to make it into a Broadway play. The music and packaging have reportedly been finished, but they have not found a label to release it.
In 1999, Rhodes reunited with Duran Duran's original vocalist,
Stephen Duffy , to create new music based on some of the earliest Duran music the two had written together. The result was the album
Dark Circles,
released under the name
The Devils .
Also in 1999, Rhodes had a small guest appearance (in voice only) as a Canadian bomber pilot in
South Park: Bigger, Longer & Uncut .
Personal life
Rhodes met
Julie Anne Friedman
(heiress to the Iowa, USA
Younkers Department Store
fortune) at a yacht party while on an American tour in 1982, and married her on 18 August 1984. They have one daughter together, Tatjana Lee Orchid (born 23 August 1986). After a brief separation and an attempt to reconcile, they filed for divorce in 1992. Since his divorce, he has been in three long-term relationships. He dated British photographer/filmmaker
Madeleine Farley
from late 1992 - November 1999. From February 2000 - July 2001, he was romantically linked to American model
Mary Gray . He dated American actress/model/artist
Meredith Ostrom
from July 2001 - February 2009. He also had a brief relationship with British Socialite Tara Palmer-Tomkinson (from November 1999 - February 2000).
Rhodes became enamoured of the art world early in his career, making friends with
Andy Warhol
and
The Factory
crowd, and attending exhibitions worldwide. At the end of 1984, he released his own book of abstract art photographs called
Interference . Many of the photos were displayed at an exhibition at the Hamilton Gallery in
London .
Rhodes became a
vegetarian
in 1988, following an incident where he was cutting into a rare steak and blood spurted onto his shirt.
Rhodes's father, Roger Bates, to whom Nick was very close, died in 2008. Duran Duran's July 7, 2008 concert at the Birmingham NIA was dedicated to Nick's father.
Diposkan oleh
heri
di
9:39 AM
1 komentar
Label:
duran duran bio
ANDY TAYLOR
Andy Taylor
(born 16 February 1961) is an
English
guitarist ,
singer , and
songwriter , best known as a member of
Duran Duran
and
The Power Station . He has also performed as a solo artist, and served as a
record producer
for
C.C.Catch
and several other artists.
He was born and raised in
Cullercoats ,
Tyne and Wear , North East England, and attended
Marden High School . He began playing guitar at the age of eleven, and was soon playing with local bands, even producing one at the age of sixteen. He dropped out of school early to tour England and Europe with several different bands, playing working men's clubs and air force bases.
Duran Duran and Power Station
Taylor joined Duran Duran in 1980 (easily the most experienced musician in the band), and enjoyed their rise to fame over the next five years. He married Tracey Wilson, one of Duran Duran's hairstylists, in 1982. The couple have four children. Taylor invested his royalties in real estate, and once owned a wine bar in
Whitley Bay
named "Rio" after one of Duran Duran's biggest hit singles and albums.
In the mid eighties Taylor grew dissatisfied with the band's keyboard-heavy
synth pop , however, and longed to stretch out his rock muscles. During a hiatus in Duran's schedule, he joined forces with bassist
John Taylor ,
Chic
drummer
Tony Thompson , and singer
Robert Palmer
to create the band
The Power Station , which had three hit singles and played the
Live Aid
concert in 1985. The band was a distinct break from the
New Romantic
Duran Duran material as they pursued a hard-rock music style.
Taylor would later rejoin Power Station bandmates Palmer and Thompson for Palmer's first solo album since the band's formation. The resulting album,
Riptide
proved to be a massive success for Palmer.
After The Power Station, Taylor allowed Duran Duran to believe he would be returning to record a new album, even as he was signing contracts for a solo career in
Los Angeles . Another Capitol Records group,
Missing Persons , was disbanding at the same time, and Andy hired
Terry Bozzio
and
Patrick O'Hearn
to work with him. This caused ex-Missing Persons guitarist
Warren Cuccurullo
to approach Duran Duran to fill Andy's position -- a vacancy no one in Duran Duran knew existed. Eventually Duran Duran sued Taylor to force him in to the studio to complete the album
Notorious , but he ended up playing on only a few tracks before departing the band completely. He later countersued to claim some of the royalties from that album.
Solo career
In the meantime, Andy Taylor hooked up with ex- Sex Pistols
guitarist
Steve Jones
and recorded the hit single "Take It Easy" (US #24), which was used as the theme song to the movie
American Anthem . Ex-Missing Persons members
Terry Bozzio
and
Patrick O'Hearn
lent drums and bass, respectively, to the song and video. Two other songs by Taylor/Jones also appeared on the album: "Wings of Love" and the instrumental "Angel Eyes". Andy Taylor also contributed to the
Miami Vice II
soundtrack with the song "When The Rain Comes Down" (US #73). This was followed by his first solo album,
Thunder
(1987). O'Hearn again played bass for him on the album and during the following tour.
Taylor also contributed a cover of "Dead on the Money" to the
Tequila Sunrise
soundtrack in 1988. Taylor's former band Duran Duran would also allow one of their own songs, " Do You Believe In Shame? " to be included on the album. Also in 1988, Andy helped produce Rod Stewart's album "Out of Order" along with Chic members Bernard Edwards and Tony Thompson.
A second solo album, this one consisting of entirely
cover versions , entitled
Dangerous , was released in 1990.
Taylor played as a
backing musician
for several other stars, including
Belinda Carlisle
(on her single "Mad About You"),
Robert Palmer ,
Rod Stewart ,
C.C.Catch
and
Thunder . He then moved on to producing full time, working with several moderately successful bands throughout the 1990s.
His most recent venture is the album "Burger Kingdom" which was recorded at his Ibiza studio in April 2008.
His new band consists of the following members:
Andy Taylor - Guitar & Vocal
Liam Keenan - Vocals & Piano
Joe Breban - Drums
Miky Dunn
- Bass
Reunions
Taylor participated in the 1996 reunion of The Power Station, and in 2001 reunited with the other original members of Duran Duran to record their first new music together since 1985. Their ensuing album,
Astronaut , featured a blend of Taylor's heavy guitar with the synth hooks of the classic Duran Duran sound.
In 2006, Taylor again parted ways with
Duran Duran , leaving the band a second time, in the middle of the recording of
Reportage , which was scrapped by the band after his departure. More recently, Taylor strongly hinted in his blogs that Duran Duran's management company, Magus Entertainment, were partly responsible for his departure.
This was confirmed on the 4th of May 2008 when (following legal action) The Sunday Times(UK) printed the following retraction -
"Andy Taylor
An article about Duran Duran (Wild boys always shine, Culture, November 4, 2007), referring to Andy Taylor's departure, said he had failed to turn up for a recording session in New York and had sent a "blunt message . . . that he was leaving the band, with immediate effect". It was suggested that his departure was "still unexplained". Andy Taylor's departure from the band is the subject of continuing legal proceedings, but we wish to make clear that he was unable to get a US working visa to attend the New York recording session because of administrative failures by the band's management. His departure was not unexplained and he did not leave the band — the Duran Duran partnership was dissolved by the other members. We apologise and are happy to correct the record."
[ 1 ]
Taylor also wrote in his autobiography that in addition to the problems recording
Reportage , old conflicts between Nick Rhodes and Simon LeBon resurfaced. He also suggests that he was suffering from clinical depression during that period, following the death of his father.
Andy Taylor Studios Ibiza
Work on Andy Taylor Studios Ibiza (ATSI) was completed in 2006, a state of the art recording facility in
Ibiza . In 2007 Taylor created three MySpace profiles and an official website to showcase the new music he has recorded with singer
Liam Keenan . Tracks from artists which Taylor has produced are also featured, including
Hungover Stuntmen ,
Sonny J Mason ,
Juke
and
Veil Cassini
RockAffairs
Founded in November 2007 and launched in April 2008, Taylor provided the seed money and helped co-found RockAffairs.com, a website developed to allow unsigned artists to sell MP3s, sell merchandise, promote their band and keep 100% of the profit. It also pioneers a new Profit Share Scheme where 100% of income from listener signups is distributed amongst bands who sign up for the profit share scheme.
In June 2008, Taylor handed control of the company over to Sarah Eaglesfield, former webmistress at duranduran.com.
"Wild Boy: My Life In Duran Duran"
On September 9th, 2008, an autobiography by Andy Taylor was released. It covers a backstage look of Duran Duran's rise, an album by album look at how the band became synonymous with early MTV, the drug and alcohol habits of the band, and delves into Taylor's other works, both solo and with other artists, such as his bandmates in The Power Station, Steve Jones and even Rod Stewart. Above all else, it is Taylor's own accounts of his life, from the strong family ties raised in him by his father and extended family to the experiences of starting a family of his own with his wife Tracey.
Personal life
Andy Taylor married his long-time girlfriend, Tracey Wilson, in 1982. They have four children, Andrew James, born August 20, 1984; Georgina, born August 12, 1987; Bethany, born in September 1991; and Isabelle, born in May 1996.
Discography
With Duran Duran
Duran Duran
(1981) Rio
(1982) Seven and the Ragged Tiger
(1983) Arena (live)
(1984) Astronaut
(2004) Reportage
(2006) (Unreleased Album)
With Power Station
The Power Station
(1985) Living In Fear
(1997)
Solo
Thunder
(1987) Dangerous
(1990) The Spanish Sessions EP
(1999)
Solo Singles
"Take It Easy" "When The Rain Comes Down" "I Might Lie" "Don't Let Me Die Young" "Life Goes On" (Promo) "Dead On The Money" (Promo) "Lola" "Stone Cold Sober"
Diposkan oleh
heri
di
9:35 AM
1 komentar
Label:
duran duran bio
ROGER TAYLOR
Roger Andrew Taylor
(born 26 April 1960) is the drummer for the electronic pop/rock band
Duran Duran . He is not to be confused with the
Queen
drummer
Roger Taylor .
Early life
Roger began drumming around the age of twelve, teaching himself by playing along with his favorite records. His first ambition was to become goalkeeper for English football team
Aston Villa . As a child he was taken to every home match by his father Hugh, but at 5'9 never grew tall enough to realise his dream. He has cited drummers
Paul Thompson
of
Roxy Music ,
Charlie Watts
of the
Rolling Stones
and
Tony Thompson
of
Chic
as his key musical influences growing up.
Before joining Duran Duran, he played with several school and local club bands. After being inspired by the punk bands playing at Barbarellas club in
Birmingham , he formed New Wave/Punk outfit
Scent Organs , who became regional finalists in the ' Melody Maker ' young band of the year in 1978. After the band split in 1979 he joined
Duran Duran .
[ edit ]
Initial tenure in Duran Duran, 1980-1985
He climbed with the band to fame and fortune in the early 1980s, playing on their first four albums:
Duran Duran ,
Rio ,
Seven and the Ragged Tiger
and
Arena . Along with bass player
John Taylor , he gave the band their trademark powerful driving disco/rock rhythms. His dark brooding looks served as a pleasing contrast to the rest of the band's more glamorous look.
Noted to be fairly quiet and unassuming, Roger typically shied away from interviews and the spotlight, preferring to stay in the background and maintain a degree of privacy.
Arcadia
After
Duran Duran
had achieved three multi-million worldwide selling studio albums and a huge world tour in 1984 (which peaked with 3 nights at New York's
Madison Square Garden ), Taylor worked with Duran Duran bandmates
Simon Le Bon
and
Nick Rhodes
on the album
So Red The Rose
for their side project
Arcadia
which featured among others,
Sting ,
David Gilmour ,
Herbie Hancock
and
Grace Jones . The band never toured, and he did not participate in its promotion.
Taylor picked up two
Grammy awards
during this period.
Nine year hiatus from music
His final performance with
Duran Duran
was a one-off show with the band at
Live Aid
benefit concert
in
Philadelphia
which reached a global audience of 2 billion people. At the end of 1985, after the band had achieved a transatlantic no. 1 record with the
James Bond
theme
A View to a Kill ," Roger left the band and retired to the English countryside with his wife. He then fathered two sons and one daughter: James Roger, Ellea and Elliott Dante. Taylor was said to be exhausted by the rigors of being in the limelight. He took a long sabbatical to recover and maintain a sense of privacy.
Second tenure in Duran Duran, 1994 and 2001-2008
In 1994, while visiting a friend in
Paris , he temporarily joined
Duran Duran
to play drums on two tracks for the covers album
Thank You ,
later appearing in the video for
Perfect Day
and on the band's
Top Of The Pops
performance of the song.
In 1997, Taylor began flirting with the music industry again. He briefly formed the electro/dance band
Freebass , which produced a single, " Love is Like Oxygen, "(a cover of
The Sweet ) on underground dance label
Cleveland City Records
and was placed in the top ten of the music week
UK dance chart . Taylor also released electro house vinyl with
Freebass
member
Jake Roberts
under the name ' Funkface ' - ' Lost This Feeling ' and ' Shine ' on Taylors own label
Rt Music .
In 2001, Taylor rejoined
Duran Duran , as all five of the
original
members reunited to record new material and perform as a
quintet
again. This culminated in 5 sold out nights at
Wembley Arena , playing
Madison Square Garden
again and signing with
Epic Records
in
New York . The band delivered a worldwide hit single ' (Reach Up For The) Sunrise ' and multi million selling album
Astronaut
which heavily featured the electro-funk rhythms of the newly reunited Roger and
John Taylor .
The ' Astronaut ' tour lasted for more than 2 years with sold out shows all around the globe. The band also picked up several prestigious 'achievement' awards from
Q magazine ,
MTV
and a
Brit award .
In 2002, Taylor appeared on the " Twelve Drummers Drumming " Christmas card in the " Twelve Days of Christmas " set sold at
Woolworths
to raise money for the
NSPCC
– alongside the "other"
Roger Taylor , the drummer for
Queen . In 2003, he began a long running deejay residency at
Londons Met Bar
playing a mix of
house
and
hip hop . In 2004, Taylor and
Giovanna Cantone
announced their separation after nineteen years of marriage. In the same year he was named Britain's fifth most eligible bachelor in UK high society magazine
Tatler
alongside
Prince William
and
Hugh Grant . In 2005, he started work on the second
Duran Duran
album for
Epic Records . He was named (along with
John Taylor ) as one of the
greatest musicians
of all time in the
Ubersonik.com top 100 . In 2006,
Timbaland
and
Justin Timberlake
started work with Duran Duran on several tracks for a new album set for release in 2007. In 2007, the band preview the entire album ' Red Carpet Massacre ' at
The Barrymore Theater
on
New Yorks Broadway
over 10 groundbreaking and critically acclaimed nights. On 12 May 2007
( 2007-05-12 ) , he married Peruvian girlfriend Gisella Bernales, in a Caribbean ceremony. On 1 July 2007
( 2007-07-01 ) , he performed with Duran Duran at the ' Concert for Diana ' at the new
Wembley Stadium . The band were introduced by
Prince William
and
Prince Harry . They opened the show to a worldwide audience of 1 billion people. On 24 August 2008, Roger performed a 4-hour deejay set at legendary 'superclub'
Pacha
in
Ibiza . 6 March . Began residency with partner Jake Fonique at Cielo , uber hip down town New York house club that has hosted some of the biggest and most respected dj's in the world. Saturday 7 March 2009, Roger will be spinning a DJ set in club Gryphon at the Seminole HardRock Hotel and Casino. 18 March . Duran Duran begin recording a new album with 'prodigious' producer/dj Mark Ronson.
Diposkan oleh
heri
di
9:33 AM
0
komentar
Label:
duran duran bio
JOHN TAYLOR
John Taylor
(born
Nigel John Taylor
on
June 20 ,
1960
in
Birmingham ,
England ) is the
bass guitarist
and co-founder of the
pop rock
band
Duran Duran . Duran Duran was one of the most popular groups in the world during the 1980s, thanks to revolutionary
music videos
that played in heavy rotation in the early days of
MTV , and Taylor was one of Duran Duran's most popular members.
Taylor played with Duran Duran and its changing lineups from its founding in 1978 until 1997, when he left to pursue a solo recording and film career. He made a dozen solo releases (albums, EPs, and video projects) through his company "Trust The Process" in the next four years, had a lead role in the movie
Sugar Town , and made appearances in half a dozen other film projects. He rejoined Duran Duran for a full reunion of the original five members of the group in 2001.
Taylor also founded two
supergroup
side projects:
Power Station
and
Neurotic Outsiders .
Taylor grew up in
Hollywood , a suburb of
Birmingham , England. As a child he attended
Catholic
school and the
Abbey High School , in
Redditch , wore glasses (due to severe
myopia , over -10
dioptres ), enjoyed
James Bond
movies and the hobby of
wargaming
with hand-painted model soldiers. In his early teen years he discovered girls, choosing
Roxy Music
as his favourite band, and before long was collecting records and teaching himself to play piano. His first band was called Shock Treatment. John is known to be the most favorite out of all of the band. Most of his fans are girls.
1978-1997: Duran Duran and Power Station
In 1978, Taylor and school friend
Nick Rhodes
formed
Duran Duran
with
Stephen Duffy
while attending the School of Foundation Studies & Experimental Workshop Birmingham Polytechnic (now
Birmingham City University ). Soon after Taylor underwent an " ugly duckling " transformation -- ditching the glasses for
contact lenses , adopting the ruffles and sashes of the fashion that would become known as the
New Romantic
style, and learning to wear eyeliner and lipstick. He stopped using the name "Nigel," and has been known throughout his professional career as John Taylor.
Taylor played guitar when Duran Duran was founded, but switched to
bass guitar
after discovering the funky rhythms of
Chic , and learned to enjoy playing in the
rhythm section
with Duran's newly recruited
drummer
Roger Taylor . He has frequently cited Chic's
Bernard Edwards
and
The Clash 's
Joe Strummer
as his strongest influences, in addition to
Paul McCartney ,
James Jamerson , and Roxy Music players
Graham Simpson
and
John Porter . Duran Duran released its first album in 1981, and went on to worldwide success in the early 1980s. [ 1 ]
Duran Duran's early music tended to feature prominent, almost melodic bass lines, following the model of
funk
and
disco
songs like " Good Times ". Although it was occasionally plain in the beginning that Taylor's playing was naïve and self-taught, he developed a unique undulating style that has since inspired many imitators. It was John Taylor who played bass on the
Band Aid
charity single " Do They Know It's Christmas? " As Duran Duran became famous in the early 1980s, Taylor's individual
celebrity
grew. His picture was a staple of teen magazines, and he won numerous popularity polls, including appearances on
People Magazine ' s annual list of "Sexiest People". He lived a lavish lifestyle with homes in
London
and
Paris , and owned several cars, which he rarely had a chance to drive, including the Bond-style
Aston Martin
of which he had always dreamed. He dated fashion models, such as
Bond girl
Janine Andrews
and "Face of the '80s"
Renee Simonsen , was welcome at parties all over the world, and developed the
cocaine
addiction
to go with the rest of his high living.
In 1985, after recording the
chart-topping theme
to the Bond movie
A View to a Kill , Duran Duran split into two side projects. John Taylor and Duran Duran guitarist
Andy Taylor
joined forces with singer
Robert Palmer
and former Chic drummer
Tony Thompson
to form the band
The Power Station . With the guidance of producer Bernard Edwards, they released one album,
The Power Station , which produced the hit singles "Some Like It Hot" and the
T.Rex
cover song " Bang A Gong (Get It On) ".
That year, Taylor also launched his first solo effort, recording the single " I Do What I Do... " for the soundtrack to the movie
9½ Weeks . He also wrote some instrumental music for the movie's score with collaborator
Jonathan Elias .
Although Andy Taylor and Roger Taylor left the band, the three remaining Duran Duran members reformed for the 1986
Notorious
album, and continued to record and tour throughout the 1990s with new guitarist
Warren Cuccurullo . Taylor recorded a fair amount of unreleased solo material on the side, including several tracks used on the soundtrack of the
Allison Anders
movie
Mi Vida Loca .
On December 24 1991, Taylor married 19-year-old actress and party girl
Amanda De Cadenet , who was already pregnant with his daughter, Atlanta (born March 31, 1992). He moved from England to
Los Angeles, California
to help further his wife's acting career, as well as to escape constant attention from the British tabloids. Taylor's marriage declined even as Duran Duran's star rose with the success of 1993's
The Wedding Album . In late 1994, Taylor sought treatment for his substance abuse, and has remained sober since. He and De Cadenet officially separated in May 1995.
Duran Duran's success rapidly waned with the widely derided 1995 covers album
Thank You . Following that album's supporting tour, Duran Duran spent part of the summer of 1995 in London working on the album
Medazzaland . Concurrently, Taylor devoted time to the side project
Neurotic Outsiders , recording and touring with that band from the end of 1995 through the start of 1996.
1997-2001: Solo career
In 1996, Taylor co-founded the independent
record label
B5 Records
in California with producer
Hein Hoven . B5 Records originally recorded from Hoven's
Lake Hollywood
home but eventually built a
state of the art
studio in
Santa Monica
dubbed "B5 by the Sea." The label had a cutting-edge website created by Kapil Mathur which featured a virtual journey through the B5 studios, and which allowed visitors to "interact" with Taylor and Hoven using mobile
avatars
in a
virtual environment .
At B5, Taylor sang and played guitar and bass on his first solo album,
Feelings Are Good (And Other Lies) , working with collaborator
Steve Jones
of the
Sex Pistols . The home-grown album was marketed by
mail order , and capitalized on the
Internet
savvy of the Duran Duran fanbase by selling its CDs directly via the website. The music and vocals were generally rough and raw, much more akin to
punk music
than to Duran Duran, while the lyrics reflected Taylor's chaotic personal life and his ongoing
divorce
from De Cadenet. He participated in writing an album for the reunited Power Station in late 1996, but his personal problems forced him to withdraw from the project, which went on to record with Bernard Edwards on bass and toured with a hired bass player. Increasing creative differences within Duran Duran, his move to LA and a desire to focus on his solo work also led Taylor to reconsider his place in that band. In January 1997 he announced at a Duran Duran fan convention that he was leaving the band. [ 2 ]
He was soon recording more of his own material on B5 Records, releasing the EP
Autodidact
even as
Feelings Are Good
was re-released on the larger Canadian label
DeRock Records . B5 then issued a
tribute album
called
Dream Home Heartaches... Remaking/Remodeling Roxy Music , featuring
Roxy Music
covers by Taylor and many other local Los Angeles artists. The label also produced the album
Sub-Acid Sweet Songs
for L.A. quartet
Three Alarm Fire
before Hein Hoven decided to leave the company. After that, the B5 Records company and the much-simplified website were renamed "Trust The Process", and focused on promoting Taylor's solo work rather than developing other acts.
During 1997 and 1998, Taylor built and toured with a band called "John Taylor Terroristen" ( Gerry Laffy
on guitar, Michael Railton/Tio Banks on keyboard, Larry Aberman on drums, John Amato on sax and flute) which played numerous shows in
Southern California
before touring the East and West Coasts of the United States. Terroristen released a live EP
5.30.98
and the accompanying video
Better Off Alive
through the Trust The Process website. After 9/11, Taylor said he would never use the band name "Terroristen" again.
Taylor also began making forays into
acting . His long friendship with Allison Anders led to a starring role in her independent film,
Sugar Town , in 1998. He also appeared in small roles in several other movies and TV programmes over the next couple of years.
In 1999, Taylor released two albums of earlier material. The first,
Resume , was made up of unreleased music that he and Jonathan Elias had worked on together during the 1985 sessions for the
9½ Weeks
movie soundtrack. The second,
Meltdown , was a collection of tracks Taylor had laid down in 1992, during the extensive delays in Duran Duran's recording of
The Wedding Album . Described by Taylor as "upbeat dance electronica with a hip hop influence", some of the lyrics reveal his disaffection with the Duran Duran lifestyle; he has said he came very near to leaving the band during that time, but was held back by the sudden success of " Ordinary World " and " Come Undone " in 1993.
Later in 1999 Taylor signed a recording contract with the Japanese record label
Avex Trax , and released an album labeled simply
John Taylor
on the cover, but listed in his official discography as
The Japan Album . John Taylor Terroristen did more touring in Japan, Germany, and the United States. The Trust The Process website released an accompanying limited edition
Japanese EP , followed by the "bootleg album"
Live Cuts
featuring unretouched recordings of Taylor's live performances from that year.
He continued recording for Avex in 2000, and early in 2001 released
Techno For Two , a decidedly non- techno
album filled with very personal songs. Shortly after, as talks began for a potential Duran Duran reunion, Taylor decided to create a retrospective package called
Retreat Into Art
demonstrating his development over the previous five years. A limited edition of 999 signed boxes contained two CDs, a poster, postcards, and more. After the signed boxes were sold out, the two-CD set was marketed on its own.
Taylor's final solo release, completed after the Duran Duran reunion was under way, was the collection
MetaFour
released in 2002. The album is divided into four thematic sections. The first contains instrumental music created for the 1992 film
Mi Vida Loca . The second consists of previously unreleased live performances from various points in Taylor's early solo career, while the third contains a handful of acoustic performances and demos. The last section is a 17-minute question and answer session Taylor took part in at the
Musicians Institute
in Hollywood in 1998.
2001-2008: Duran Duran reunited
In 2000, Taylor was approached at his home in Los Angeles by singer Simon Le Bon about a possible reunion with the original
Duran Duran
lineup, and he was enthusiastic about the idea as long as the other two Taylors (Roger and Andy, who had left the band in 1986) were willing to rejoin as well. An agreement was soon reached, and Taylor demonstrated his renewed commitment to the band by inking an enormous linked-D's
tattoo
on his upper arm.
After a highly successful tour of Japan in 2003, the reunited band was signed with
Epic Records , and released the album
Astronaut
in October 2004. They toured throughout the first half of 2005 before returning to the studio to work on their next new album. Guitarist Andy Taylor left the band again in October 2006, and recordings from this session (with the working title "Reportage") were set aside when the band got a chance to work with famed producer Timbaland. The resulting album, "Red Carpet Massacre", was released in November 2007. To celebrate its release the band took the unprecedented step of performing the album in its entirety for 10 special performances on Broadway in New York City, with a world tour in 2008.
Guest appearances
Over the years, Taylor has worked on projects with several other performers. He has performed with
James Angell , and played bass on the
Deadsy
song "She Likes Big Words". He co-wrote and played bass on the
Mindi Abair
song "It Just Happens That Way", and did backing vocals on her cover of "Save Tonight".
He remixed the song, "Like A Hard Rain" for Japanese artist
Nanase , and played on two songs for the Japanese band
Slut Banks .
Taylor's side project
Neurotic Outsiders
has re-convened for an occasional live show or two since a surprise four-show stint at the
Viper Room
in 1999. [ 3 ]
John Taylor made his first film appearance outside of Duran Duran as "The Hacker" (alongside then-girlfriend
Virginia Hey ) in the
pilot episode
of
Timeslip , a 1985 TV programme that was not further developed. He later made a guest appearance in the 1985
Miami Vice
episode titled "Whatever Works." In the episode, he, along with Tony Thompson,
Andy Taylor , and
Michael Des Barres
played Power Station's 1985 hit "Bang a Gong (Get It On)." John was the only band member who had spoken lines, introducing character Sonny Crockett (Don Johnson) to new lead singer
Michael Des Barres . Taylor also made
cameo appearances
in
The Flintstones in Viva Rock Vegas , and
Politically Incorrect
with Bill Maher in 2000, and
That '80s Show
in 2002. He also appeared on
BBC Two
comedy panel game
Never Mind the Buzzcocks
as a panelist in April 2001.
He makes a cameo appearance in the
Bloodhound Gang 's music video for the song "Your Only Friends Are Make Believe", "Playing
rock, paper, scissors
with himself... and losing" as described by Evil Jared Hasselhoff in the commentary for the band's DVD "One Fierce Beer Run".
Basses
The
bass guitar
most commonly associated with John Taylor is the Japanese
Aria Pro II , which he used during the height of Duran Duran's fame; he also promoted the instrument in a series of magazine advertisements. In the mid-1980s, John tried other basses such as
Steinberger
and
Wal
(interestingly, although the Wal is considered by many to be one of the world's finest basses, Taylor was unimpressed with his). Taylor eventually settled on Phillip Kubicki's
Factor bass
with a unique drop-D latch on the head. Taylor also inherited the
Music Man StingRay
belonging to his idol
Bernard Edwards .
As of 2007, Taylor still plays the Aria and the Stingray, but has also been seen playing a 1962 reissue
Fender Precision Bass , a
Gibson Les Paul
bass, a
Warwick Thumb 5
and a Peavey Cirrus 5 and 4 string.
Noting Taylor's loyalty to the same Peavey bass guitar onstage with Duran Duran for several years, in early 2006,
Peavey Guitars
asked Taylor to create a signature 4-string bass guitar. With his design partner Patty Palazzo, and designer Ted McCann, Taylor created the limited-edition "Peavey Liberator J84", which featured a detachable amplifier built into a custom-built case. The amp could be expanded into an external speaker or amplifier to increase volume and flexibility. Taylor went on to design a six-string guitar, the "Peavey Liberator A435" (named after
the main road
that led from his childhood home into the city of
Birmingham ,
England ), as well. Only 100 each of the numbered-and-signed basses and guitars were made available to the public, in October 2006.
Personal
John married
Amanda De Cadenet
in a London registry office on December 24, 1991 and they had a daughter, Atlanta Noo, on 31 March 1992. They officially separated in May 1995. John met his second wife
Gela Nash , co-founder of
Juicy Couture , in 1996, and they married in Las Vegas on March 27, 1999. They divide their time between Los Angeles, and the 15th-century
South Wraxall Manor
in the British countryside, purchased in 2004.
Discography
With Duran Duran
Duran Duran
(1981) Rio
(1982) Seven and the Ragged Tiger
(1983) Arena
(Live) (1984) " A View to a Kill " (Single) (1985) Notorious
(1986) Big Thing
(1988) Decade: Greatest Hits
(Compilation) (1989) Liberty
(1990) The Wedding Album
(1993) Thank You
(1995) Medazzaland
(4 tracks) (1997) Greatest
(Compilation) (1998) Astronaut
(2004) Red Carpet Massacre
(2007)
With Power Station
The Power Station
(1985) Living In Fear
(1996) (9 tracks as co-writer)
With Neurotic Outsiders
Neurotic Outsiders
(1996)
Solo
I Do What I Do... (Theme for 9½ Weeks)
(Single) (1986) Feelings Are Good and Other Lies
(1997) Autodidact
(EP) (1997) :Resumé
(With Jonathan Elias) (1999) Meltdown
(1999) The Japan Album
(1999) The Japan EP
(EP) (2000) Live Cuts
(Live) (2000) Terroristen: Live At The Roxy
(Live) (2001) Techno For Two
(2001) Retreat Into Art
(2001) MetaFour
(2002)
Film credits
1999 -
Sugar Town :
Clive 2000 -
Four Dogs Playing Poker :
Dick 2000 -
A Diva's Christmas Carol :
Ghost of Christmas Present (VH1) 2001 -
Strange Frequency :
Jimmy Blitz (VH1) 2001 -
Vegas, City of Dreams :
Byron Lord
Diposkan oleh
heri
di
9:29 AM
0
komentar
Label:
duran duran bio
SIMON LE BON
Simon John Charles Le Bon
(born 27 October 1958) is the lead singer and lyricist of the new wave band
Duran Duran
and its offshoot,
Arcadia .
Early life
Le Bon was a member of the local
church choir
from a young age, but was also trained as an actor. Simon went to
Pinner County Grammar School , the same school that
Elton John
attended some years earlier. He worked as a theatre porter at Northwick Park Hospital Accident and Casualty, and also auditioned for a punk band at Harrow College. He appeared in a few
television commercials
and also in several
theatre
productions. He worked on a
kibbutz
– an Israeli
collective
community
– in the Negev desert in
Israel
in 1978, and then returned to England to attend drama school at the
University of Birmingham
before meeting the fledgling band Duran Duran. [ citation needed ]
Le Bon attended Birmingham University at the same time as
Blancmange
lead singer Neil Arthur. This fact came up during a
Smash Hits
interview of Blancmange done by
Chris Heath . According to Arthur, Le Bon recognised his old university classmate immediately upon running into him backstage at a
Top of the Pops
taping, and the two met up for a drink and friendly chat.
Career
Duran Duran
Duran Duran was founded by childhood friends
John Taylor
and
Nick Rhodes
along with singer/songwriter
Stephen Duffy
in 1978, but Duffy left a year later, convinced they weren't going anywhere. The band went through a long succession of lineup changes after Duffy's departure, but finally settled on a guitarist and drummer. The band had a powerful pop sound flavoured with disco, funk, and electronics, built on a solid rock rhythm section, and all they needed was a charismatic singer with a distinctive voice.
Le Bon's ex-girlfriend, Fiona Kemp (a
barmaid
at the
Rum Runner
nightclub
where Duran Duran was rehearsing), introduced him to the band in May 1980, recommending him as a potential vocalist. As band legend has it, he turned up for the audition wearing pink leopard-print trousers, and carrying a notebook containing a large collection of
poetry
he had written - all of which would later become tracks on the early Duran Duran albums. [ citation needed ]
After listening to the songs the band had already composed together, Le Bon spent some time fitting one of his poems ("Sound of Thunder") to one of the instrumentals, and found they had a good match. Le Bon agreed to "try [Duran Duran] out for the summer"; within six weeks the band was playing steadily around Birmingham and London, and a national tour supporting
Hazel O'Connor
led to a record deal with
EMI
Records in December.
The band's first album,
Duran Duran , was released in 1981, and they quickly shot to fame as part of the
New Romantic
movement. Three more albums followed in quick succession:
Rio
(1982),
Seven and the Ragged Tiger
(1983) and
Arena
(1984). Each album release was accompanied by heavy media promotion and a lengthy concert tour. By mid-1984, the band was ready for a break. Duran Duran's only other work that year was an appearance on the 1984
Band Aid
charity single, " Do They Know It's Christmas ."
Following the departures of Roger Taylor and Andy Taylor, Le Bon, Rhodes, and John Taylor continued on as Duran Duran, recording and releasing
Notorious
(1986) and
Big Thing
(1988). The group added guitarist
Warren Cuccurullo
and
Sterling Campbell
(his only album as a member of the band) and recorded the album
Liberty
(1990), but the band's success had begun to wane in the late-1980s.
Duran Duran had a resurgence in popularity in 1993 with
The Wedding Album . Several months into the intensive concert tour supporting this album, Le Bon suffered from strained
vocal cords , and the tour was postponed for six weeks while he recovered.
In 1995, Duran Duran released the covers album
Thank You , and Le Bon had the chance to cover some of his favorite artists, ( Jim Morrison ,
Lou Reed , and
Elvis Costello ), but the album was severely panned by critics from all quarters. That year Le Bon also performed Duran Duran's 1993 hit "Ordinary World" with
opera
tenor
Luciano Pavarotti
during a "Children of Bosnia"
benefit concert
for War Child. Le Bon described the event to Jam! Showbiz thus: "If you're talking about name dropping, he's one of the biggest names you could drop, Pav-The-Man."
When bassist
John Taylor
left the band in 1997, Le Bon and Rhodes remained as the only two members who had been with Duran Duran from the beginning. The successive two albums with Le Bon, Rhodes, and Cuccurullo,
Medazzaland
(1997) and
Pop Trash
(2000) were not commercial successes.
Simon Le Bon performing in 2005
In 2001, Duran Duran's original five members reunited to record a new album, " Astronaut ", for
Epic Records . "Astronaut" was released worldwide on 11 October 2004. The album was preceded by the single "(Reach Up For The) Sunrise", their first UK Top 10 single in a decade.
Arcadia
Before Duran Duran reunited, Le Bon formed the band
Arcadia
with fellow Duran Duran members
Nick Rhodes
and
Roger Taylor . Arcadia released only one album, the multi-platinum
So Red The Rose
(1985), and the band never toured.
Solo excursions
While Le Bon has been in Duran Duran for the band's entire history, he has also dabbled in solo outings. In 1985, for the
Whitbread Round the World Race , he contributed a song entitled "Grey Lady Of The Sea" and narrated a video of that year's race called
Drum
(1987).
Grey Lady Of The Sea
was released as a single in Japan in 1988.
In 1989, for
Jonathan Elias '
Requiem For The Americas
project, Le Bon contributed "Follow In My Footsteps", with
The Bangles'
Susanna Hoffs
on background vocals. The track was released on 7" single in Italy that year.
In 1998, along with friend Nick Wood and wife Yasmin, he set up
SYN Entertainment
( S imon
Y asmin
N ick) in Tokyo, Japan. Having first conceived the idea in 1988, Le Bon is currently described as SYN's "Founder and Chairman", while Wood is "Founder, President and Creative Director".
In 1999, Le Bon was reported to be involved in Napalm Death's new album, a collaboration brought about through their shared love of hometown Birmingham.
In 2000, SYN Entertainment founded SYN Records which has released a number of compilations, some of which have included contributions by Le Bon. Another solo track, "Dreamboy", was featured on the SYN-released soundtrack to the
Mario Van Peebles
movie
Love Kills .
Also in 2000, SYN co-executive produced the Duran Duran album
Pop Trash
along with
Nick Rhodes
and
Warren Cuccurullo 's side-venture
TV Mania .
In October 2005 Dutch trance
DJ Ferry Corsten
released the track "Fire", with vocals by Simon Le Bon. It was a remix of the lesser known Duran Duran single
Serious , from the album
Liberty . (full credits: Ferry Corsten feat. Simon Le Bon - Fire (Flashover remix), on Flashover Recordings)
In late 2006, Simon became a member of Shinzou Sound, and took part in the Japan-based online manga project, 'Synesthesia', by co-writing the theme song 'Nobody Knows' along with Nick Wood. Shinzou Sound is a group of creative collaborators specializing in manga, music, web design, and popular culture. They joined forces with the simple concept of merging their talents in an effort to deliver the new entertainment of music and manga in an innovative way. Exclusive songs, inspired by the manga story were commissioned from international and Japanese DJs, and the story was launched in fortnightly episodes on the Net, with the individual songs available free through iTunes Japan.
Personal life
In 1984, Le Bon wooed young
fashion model
Yasmin Parvaneh
after seeing her face in a magazine and phoning her
modelling agency
to track her down. They married on 27 December 1985. After Parvaneh suffered two
miscarriages , the couple had three daughters: Amber Rose Tamara Le Bon (born August 1989 - a model like her mother), [ 1 ]
Saffron Sahara (born September 1991) and Tallulah Pine (born September 1994). [ citation needed ]
The family lives in
Putney .
While Duran Duran was on hiatus in 1985, Le Bon drew media attention when his
maxi yacht ,
Drum , lost her keel and capsized during the
Fastnet race , just off
Falmouth , along the southern coast of
Cornwall . Before being rescued, Le Bon and other crew members were trapped underwater, inside the hull, for forty minutes. Despite the accident, Le Bon and
Drum
went on to participate in the 1985-1986
Whitbread Round the World Race , coming in third overall in elapsed time. Le Bon and his partners eventually sold
Drum ; the events surrounding
Drum
and the races were chronicled in a 1989 movie entitled
Drum - The Journey Of A Lifetime .
Twenty years after his accident, in 2005, Le Bon made public his desire to race again. During a touring hiatus in August 2005, Le Bon again raced
Drum
in the
Fastnet race , borrowing the vessel from her current owner (the Scottish multi car garage owner Sir
Arnold Clark ) to participate, and raising funds for the
RNLI
charity. Unfortunately, Le Bon had to leave the race unfinished, as light winds were slowing
Drum
(and
Drum's
competitors), and would have delayed the boat's arrival at Plymouth, interfering with Le Bon's obligation to perform in Japan at a sold-out, 60,000-seat show
Diposkan oleh
heri
di
9:16 AM
1 komentar
Label:
duran duran bio
Newer Posts
Older Posts
Home
Subscribe to:
Posts (Atom)
Masukkan Code ini
K1-D97YB1-D untuk berbelanja di KutuKutuBuku.com
free hit counter
Followers
Blog Archive
►
2010
( 1 )
►
July
( 1 )
▼
2009
( 11 )
►
December
( 4 )
▼
May
( 5 )
NICK RHODES
ANDY TAYLOR
ROGER TAYLOR
JOHN TAYLOR
SIMON LE BON
►
February
( 2 )
►
2008
( 6 )
►
December
( 2 )
►
November
( 4 )
About Me
heri
handani
View my complete profile