'Idea-IMAGE-TECHNIQUE' Method of the Piano; particular questions - personal answers; 4.
Q uestion
4 .
Could you explain what the notions,
" leggiero "
and
" legato cantabile "
- actually mean to you?
Answer:
As I think, you actually would like to
know what they do mean for me, particularly in perspective of the
Chopin
&
Neuhaus' Method ...
Look, the piano technique
cannot be heavy and difficult for the pianists – do you agree? If we would
like to achieve such a fantastic easiness of the really master's level – we
cannot practice the piano using weighty and incompatible technical tools.
That is why
leggiero
was the most often used word in the Chopin's
piano lessons. The technical contents of this word could be interpreted as a
possible
smooth, joyful and easy
way of articulation of the piano
sound.
The very significant aspect of
this kind of
leggiero , is the proper control of
The Zone : a
hand cannot be just fallen down to the uncontrollable keyboard's
Zone
– it should smoothly be put into suitable
Zone
via active
participation of the liberated fingers and the adequately produced sound must
fully harmonize with our real artistic requirements. The virtual motion in
the gained sound must be present in its
interior ; a hearing activity
has to virtually push the sound – like a wind, which
" pushes "
the sail.
Look at the sample below:
It has to be very clear for us
all that if these virtual notes (above) become overloaded, theirs motion
becomes slower and heavier – up to the moment, the whole action must be
stopped. Therefore,
leggiero –
in its purely technical (one can say:
mechanical) meaning, should play so great importance role in the piano system
built after
CHOPIN
&
NEUHAUS'
orders.
Legato cantabile
is being habitually
interpreted as a kind of the very lyric articulation of the sound, as
something that could remember delicate
portamenti
known from the
operas of
Bellini .
In the
Chopin
& Neuhaus'
System
it should be define as the
main schooling pattern of the sound articulation yet, which greatly helps to
develop the real piano technique. Why so? Because it helps to pass over the whole
piano instrumental difficulty: thanks to its use the main part of mechanic
difficulty of the piano keyboard would totally be improved. But, it may
happen only through consequent use of the whole power of artistic fantasy,
its creativity and will. A keyboard for unskilled pianist is like a cat's
smile for the greenhorn mouse... – it is like highly refined trap that can
destroy one's hands if behind them does not exist any strong artistic ( virtual )
upholder.
Leggiero
in our Method should not be understood as something
that produces a weak, silent, bloodless sound –
leggiero
is just
related to the physical easiness, in any case – not to the purely aesthetical
side of the piano playing.
Generally seen, according to
my actual knowledge related to the problem, here exists the very harmful
misunderstanding concerning exactly the
legato-subject
in the piano
technical schooling. Many teachers again and again would like to follow the
sorrowfully primitive mechanic way of legato articulation on the piano,
described in the (unfortunately) so famous book of Malwine
Br é e . This very
brief manual, frankly said, actually would not like to take into
consideration the fact, a piano keyboard is equipped with the keys. The keys
factually divide the entire scope of the sounds' heights into collection of
(mainly) 88 unique sounds being put in such an order, in which each sound
stays away from the consecutive next one precisely for half a tone.
To produce the real sounding
legato
effect
of the actual
bel canto
quality, one cannot brutally keep
the former key pushing in the same time on the next one, so the real interval
would be heard for a while, besides – devastating a clarity of melodic
development and polluting the articulation's precision. Instead of such an
amateurish legato
" treatment " ,
here must be used a much more
professional kind of the piano sound's handling, built on an image of the
real
bel canto
vocal technique, which most basic standard is the
fluent sounds' moving without greater pressure – just like the
waves of sympathy
would operate the entire process. No fighting, just flying! At the last end I
feel, I should once again highlight the question of the leggiero, of the
purely TECHNICAL LEGGIERO of course: the
ffff
dynamic mark given by
Prokofiev
should
practically be completed with the leggiero-feeling inside of the pianist's
hands – just THIS feeling differentiates the real piano playing technique
from the real wood chopping, indeed. The ultimate goal of all the pianist's
work should very seriously be considered, too: what is the real point of the
ultimate interest of the practicing and performing pianist? Is it the
artistic image
of the performed music or the
way , he is assured, he should move
his hands in?
One surely becomes better
acquainted with these issues reading the H. Neuhaus' (fortunately...) famous
book , but as well, reading this
interview with V.
Horowitz , who in history of the piano in the XX Century represents the piano
mastery in its best, we could greatly expand our piano instrumental
knowledge.
Your comments - maybe?
Actualized: 2007-12-16