Spaghetti alla Norma: Sicilian-Style Pasta with Eggplant, Tomatoes, Basil and Ricotta - TasteFood
TasteFood
a culinary journey beginning and ending at the kitchen table
Home
04 June 2009
Spaghetti alla Norma: Sicilian-Style Pasta with Eggplant, Tomatoes, Basil and Ricotta
This divine Sicilian pasta dish often elicits the question: Who is Norma?  Theories abound, and one of them is that the dish was named in honor of
Bellini , a native of Catania, Sicily.  Bellini's opera " Norma " was so popular with his compatriots, that it inspired the creation of a new superlative -
una vera Norma -
to sing praise of any good deed or object.  Years later, the author
Nino Martaglio
tasted this traditional dish from Sicily and was so delighted by it that he called in
Spaghetti alla Norma .  You will agree that this dish is
una vera Norma.
Sicilian-Style Pasta with Eggplant, Tomatoes, Basil and Ricotta
-   Spaghetti alla Norma Serves 4
1 large firm eggplant (aube rgine) Extra-virgin olive oil Salt and freshly ground black pepper
2 tablespoons extra-virgin olive oil I small yellow onion, finely chopped 2 garlic cloves, minced 1 28 oz./800 g. can Italian plum tomatoes 2 tea spoons dried oregano Pinch of sugar 1 lb./500 g. dried spaghetti 1/2 cup shaved Ricotta Salata or Pecorino Romano cheese, plus extra for garnish Handful fresh basil leaves Fresh buffalo mozzarella, cut in slivers
Prepare the eggplant: Trim ends.  Cut horizontally in 1/4" slices. Arrange in one layer on baking tray.  Brush with olive oil and sprinkle with salt and pepper.  Grill in oven, turning once, until browned and softened.  Remove.  Cut the slices in thirds.  Set aside. Prepare tomato sauce: Heat two tablespoons olive oil in skillet over medium-high heat.  Add onion and sauté until it begins to give off juices, about 2 minutes.  Add garlic and sauté one minute.  Add tomatoes with juices and oregano.  Simmer 10 minutes, stirring to break up tomatoes.  Add sugar.  Stir in eggplant slices and simmer additional 10 minutes.  Season with salt and pepper to taste.
While the sauce is cooking, bring a large pot of salted water to a boil.  Add spaghetti and cook until
al dente .  Drain.  Return spaghetti to pot and add eggplant mixture.  Add 1/2 cup ricotta salata.  Toss to combine.  Serve garnished with fresh basil leaves, slivers of buffalo mozzarella cheese and extra ricotta salata.
What to Drink?  An Italian medium-bodied, fruity red:
Barbera
or
Chianti ; avoid a tannic red wine.
Jun 4, 2009 12:19:13 PM
|
Italy ,
Main Course ,
Pasta ,
Wine and food pairings
Comment
1
Reblog It
0
1 Comment
Perfect menu for our coming anniversary.I have now a surprise for my husband.
-Ava
Posted by:
Jollibee Food Corporation
|
21 July 2009 at 06:34 PM
The comments to this entry are closed.
NEXT POST Bistro-Style Skirt Steak with Sautéed Shallots - Bavette aux Echalotes
At the risk of repeating myself, I will tell you that I love French bistro cooking. Simply put, it makes me very happy. In fact, bistro food should make all of us happy. It's comforting, generous, convivial and unpretentiously rooted...
PREVIOUS POST My Big Fat Greek Dinner
Grilled Spiced Lamb Kebabs with Tsatsiki When it's hot outside, the food I crave is Greek. These Greek-inspired Lamb Kebabs are packed with herbs, spices and the heat of cayenne. They are positively addictive and perfect for a party and...
TasteFood
1
Following
2
Followers
Search
My Other Accounts
Facebook
|
TasteFood
Twitter
|
TasteFood
Recent Comments
Lynda:
Thanks, Cathy!
On
Pumpkin Pecan Roulade
Lynda:
Liz, you can do it! Its seriously easy - thats ...
|
more »
On
Pumpkin Pecan Roulade
MrsWheelbarrow:
Lovely idea for the non-pie dessert this week. ...
|
more »
On
Pumpkin Pecan Roulade
Subscribe to this blog's feed
Powered by Typepad