My Cultural Landscape: Willful Women of the World
My Cultural Landscape
(Copyright George Heymont, All Rights Reserved)
Thursday, January 7, 2010
Willful Women of the World
For years, many people thought that a romance or marriage resulted from a man's choice of the woman best suited to become his spouse. Women who took the initiative to steer a romance toward the
altar
(much less
propose
to the groom) were considered shameless
hussies . As we all know, some men are completely clueless. How many marriages have you seen in which, if the woman didn't
choreograph
and
micromanage
her relationship with her husband, nothing would ever get done? There are times when a girl's gotta do what a girl's gotta do. The
suffragette
movement was about a woman's right to vote. The
women's liberation movement
was, in many ways, about the fight for
equality in the workplace
and a
woman's right to control decisions relating to her body .
While many a
torch song
has been written about a woman longing for a man's lost or unrequited love, the songs in which a woman boldly lays out a course of action to get her man form a much smaller repertoire.
Consider this verse from
Jule
Styne
and
Bob Merrill's
hit song,
Don't Rain On My Parade , which comes at the end of
Funny Girl's
first act: "I'm gonna live and live
now ! Get what I want, I know how! One roll for the whole shebang! One throw that bell will go clang, Eye on the target and wham, One shot, one gunshot and
bam ! Hey,
Mr.
Arnstein , here I am. Get ready for me love, 'cause I'm a 'comer' I simply gotta march, my heart's a drummer Nobody, no, nobody, is gonna rain on my parade!" Many songs from the Broadway literature capture a woman's determination to get her way. Consider the following: "Marry The Man Today" from 1950's
Guys and Dolls
(music and lyrics by
Frank
Loesser ). "Make The Man Love Me" from 1951's
A Tree Grows in Brooklyn
(music by
Arthur Schwartz , lyrics by
Dorothy Fields ). Whatever Lola Wants
from 1955's
Damn Yankees
(music by
Jerry Ross , lyrics by
Richard Adler ). "You'll Never Get Away From Me" from 1959's
Gypsy: A Musical Fable
(music by Jule
Styne , lyrics by
Stephen Sondheim ). "I Ain't Down Yet" from 1960's
The Unsinkable Molly Brown
(music and lyrics by
Meredith
Willson ). "The Other Side of the Tracks" from 1962's
Little Me
(music by
Cy Coleman , lyrics by
Carolyn Leigh ). "Come Play
Wiz
Me" from 1964's
Anyone Can Whistle
(music and lyrics by Stephen Sondheim). "An Old Fashioned Wedding" from the 1966
Lincoln Center
revival of
Annie Get Your Gun
(music and lyrics by
Irving Berlin ). One of my favorite songs from
Jerry Bock
&
Sheldon
Harnick's
Pulitzer prize -winning musical,
Fiorello !
(1959), demonstrates Marie's determination not to end up a spinster. Here are the lyrics for "The Very Next Man." "I shall marry the very next man who asks me, You'll see. Next time I feel That a man's about to kneel, He won't have to plead or implore I'll say 'Yes' before his knee hits the floor! No more waiting around. No more browsing through
True Romance . I've seen the light So, while there's a chance I'm gonna marry the very next man who asks me. Start rehearsing the choir Tie some shoes on my
Chevrolet . Pelt me with rice And catch my bouquet I'm gonna marry the very next man. If he adores me What does it matter if he bores me? If I allow the man to carry me off No more will people try to marry me off. No more living alone. No more cheating at
solitaire . Holding my breath For one special man Why, I could smother for all he'd care. I'm through being wary, I'll marry the very next man. No more daydreams for me. Find the finest of bridal suites. Chill the champagne And warm up the sheets I'm gonna marry the very next man. And if he likes me, Who cares how frequently he strikes me? I'll fetch his slippers with my arm in a sling Just for the privilege of wearing his ring. New York papers, take note, Here's a statement that you can quote: Waiting for ships That never come in A girl is likely to miss the boat I'm through being wary I'll marry the very next man!" Three new films offer a chance to examine how three powerfully-driven women have dealt with the challenge of finding the right man to suit their needs and temperament. What makes these films so interesting is the fact that each one is set in a different century, in societies that forced women to confront distinctly different issues of
protocol . * * * * *
* * * * My primary reason for going to see
The Young Victoria
was my interest in the period costume work. Directed by
Jean-Marc
Vallée
and produced by
Sarah, Duchess of York , the film offers much more than a fairy tale about a royal romance. As its producer explains: "The black-clad, diminutive figure who suffered racking headaches, and who had a tempestuously volatile temper, was simply not the beautiful, magical young woman who ran down the hills of
Coburg
with no shoes collecting wild flowers for her hair." Not by a long shot. At the beginning of the film, we see Victoria ( Emily Blunt ) as a young princess who is not allowed to go up or down the stairs without holding onto
someone's
hand.
We see her mother, the widowed
Princess Victoria, Duchess of Kent
( Miranda Richardson ) as a woman adrift who is being fiercely manipulated by the power-hungry comptroller of her household,
Sir John Conroy
( Mark Strong ), who hopes to be named Regent until Victoria reaches the age of 25. Indeed, Victoria's tutor,
Baroness Louise
Lehzen
((Jeanette
Hain ), may be the only person truly looking out for the young girl's happiness while the Duchess and Conroy scheme to gain power over the throne. Although the young Victoria has a passion for
Bellini
(she is seen attending a performance of
I
Puritani ), and is deeply fond of her uncle,
King William IV
( Jim
Broadbent ) and aunt,
Queen Adelaide
( Harriet Walter ), she has no true friends. Political vultures are quick to curry favor, knowing that when the King dies, Victoria will ascend to the
throne .
Sarah, Duchess of York (who spent many years researching the period in which Victoria ruled over England with Albert by her side) was able to secure the use of several royal properties for filming.
The script (written by
Julian
Fellowes ) strives for historical accuracy. In a brilliant banquet scene, William IV loudly denounces and publicly humiliates Victoria's mother, stressing that he only prays he can live long enough for Victoria to reach her 18 th
birthday so that she can directly succeed him as England's ruler. According to
Fellowes , about two thirds of the speech in the movie included the King's actual words. Jim
Broadbent
as the aging King William IV Meanwhile, young Victoria's
other
uncle,
King Leopold I of Belgium
( Thomas
Kretschmann ) has been desperately trying to find a way to exert control over the young woman.
Essentially, he needs England's money and political power to shore up his own fortunes. When all else fails, he starts to train his son, the handsome
Prince Albert of Saxe- Coburg
and
Gotha
( Rupert Friend ) to ingratiate himself with Victoria so that he can spy on the young girl. Queen Victoria (Emily Blunt) on her coronation day As
William Lamb, 2 nd
Viscount Melbourne
( Paul
Bettany ) maneuvers himself into position to become Victoria's
mentor
(and make sure that her household staff is comprised of partisans from his own political party), she begins to gain confidence and mature, determined that as soon as she is crowned Queen of England she will get rid of the obnoxious Conroy. Lord Melbourne (Paul
Bettany )
with Victoria
(Emily Blunt) When Victoria and Albert are introduced, they quickly sense each other's loneliness and share their resentment at being treated like
pawns
on a political
chess
board. Although Albert offers his help should Victoria ever be in need, at that point she is still young, proud, and not used to having someone around who is genuinely interested in serving her desires. By the time she and Albert start to grow closer, Lord Melbourne is becoming a bit of a nuisance. The odd piece of
trivia
which I did not know before seeing this movie is that once Victoria became Queen of England, no one could ask for her hand in marriage.
She, instead, had to propose to the man she wanted to wed.
Albert's growing devotion soon becomes obvious and, once they are married -- Victoria starts to royally assert herself, strongly objecting to Albert;s "treating her like a woman." As
the Prince Consort, he must find a way to be Victoria's husband, rather than merely being perceived as another one of the queen's "guests" in her palace. There is much to admire in this film, particularly the costume design by
Sandy Powell ,production design by
Patrice Vermette , and cinematography by Hagen Bogdanski. I found the scenes in which the young
Queen Victoria
is counseled by the
Dowager
Queen Adelaide to be quite touching, allowing the audience to see some of the true spine behind William
IV's
reign.
While much of the movie revolves around Emily
Blunt's
portrayal of Queen Victoria, I especially liked the performances by Rupert Friend (Prince Albert) and Harriet Walter (Queen Adelaide). Even if you come to
The Young Victoria
only expecting two hours of eye candy, you will be impressed by the acting, writing, and cinematography. Here's the trailer: * * * * * * * * * Moving from the 19 th
to the 20th century and across the
Atlantic Ocean , the next film is based on a short story by one of the American theatre's most famous queens:
Tennessee
Williams .
As directed by Jodie
Markell ,
The Loss of a Teardrop Diamond
clearly demonstrates that even a lesser work by Williams is better than many major works by lesser dramatists and screenwriters. The movie begins with a flashback in which we see some men dynamiting a stretch of levee (an unfortunate move which results in the deaths of several locals). The action then jumps ahead in time as the young, beautiful, and obviously very spoiled Fisher Willow drives home from a party in Memphis. The film's small cast of characters are all battling ghosts of their past in ways reminiscent of other Williams creations. Mr.
Dobyne
( Will Patton ) was once a very powerful figure in Mississippi. Now a disgraced alcoholic, he lives with his son in near poverty on the Willow plantation. Mrs.
Dobyne
( Barbara Garrick ) has lost her mind (she is probably suffering from
Alzheimer's ) and is in a state mental care facility. Jimmy
Dobyne
( Chris Evans ) is young, poor, handsome, and has a surprisingly high level of integrity. As such, he is a total misfit in polite Southern society. Fisher Willow
( Bryce Dallas Howard ) is a rebellious young Southern woman who has just returned to
Mississippi
after spending a year studying abroad (while in
Paris , she may have had a nervous breakdown). Fisher's return to her late father's
plantation
has left her feeling totally out of
sync
with her old way of life. Cornelia
( Ann-Margaret ) now rules the Willow family and her brother's estate with an iron thumb. Miss Addie
( Ellen
Burstyn ), a beloved relative,
has returned from the Orient after years of being addicted to
opium . Now diagnosed with cancer, she is desperate to find someone who can assist her in committing suicide. Vinnie
( Jessica Collins ) is an old friend of Jimmy's from school who still has the hots for him. As she has grown more worldly, Fisher has been haunted by the memory of her greedy father's crimes. Polite members of Memphis society still refer to her as "the murderer's daughter." But, in order to avoid being disinherited by her aunt Cornelia, Fisher must find a young man who can accompany her to society events.
Feeling like an outcast, she determines that Jimmy Dobyne (another outcast) can fill the bill. Whether or not he is ready, willing, or able to become her escort is totally beside the point. Jimmy has nothing better to do and Fisher already knows that she can never be a typical
Southern belle . She's too smart and has already sensed that, although many men may like her, no one will ever truly love her. Bryce Dallas Howard as Fisher Willow As one watches this film, it becomes very clear that
The Loss of a Teardrop Diamond
was a total labor of love. As Markell explains: "I was intrigued by the fact that, although Williams wrote this screenplay in 1957 at the peak of his creativity and fame, he chose to set the story in the 1920s, when America was first adjusting to the modern age and the
Old South
was being replaced by the
New South . I grew up in
Memphis, Tennessee
and was always intrigued by the mysterious, ephemeral beauty that haunts the South. There are still remnants of its individuality and of its old idiosyncratic ways and I wanted to capture them on film before they are lost forever.
Tennessee Williams once said that everything he ever wrote was about loss. Sometimes the South still feels haunted by the sins of the fathers. Williams also said that so much of his work takes place in the South because he wanted to explore those vices, (the " mendacity " he explores in
Cat on a Hot Tin Roof , for example) which ultimately lead to the destruction of a culture. Fisher and Jimmy are trying both to define themselves apart from their respective families, and to understand who they are in this new world. Their search for something true in a
provincial society
is what eventually drives them together and yet sometimes pushes them apart. Their longing to connect is universal and timeless." The performances are uniformly excellent, with kudos going to Bryce Dallas Howard, Ellen Burstyn, and Chris Evans for their finely layered characterizations of complex Southerners. Special mention should be made of the lush cinematography by
Giles Nuttgens , which adds a haunting glow to many of the film's settings.
One can't help but wonder, however, whether Fisher and Jimmy (had they been transported out of rural Mississippi) might have fared much better in a larger and more liberal environment like
New Orleans
where they could have found happiness and thrived as an ebullient
fag hag / beard
and her extremely handsome gay friend. Here's the trailer: * * * * * * * * * Fast forward to the 21st century and a world in which technology has allowed us to overschedule ourselves, be constantly interrupted by calls on our cell phones, and generally lose sight of what's important in life. Meet Anna ( Amy Adams ), a young Bostonian who
stages
real estate properties in order to improve their chances of selling.
For the past four years, Anna and her
cardiologist
boyfriend, Jeremy ( Adam Scott ), have been "an item." When one of Anna's friends sees Jeremy leaving an upscale jewelry store, she jumps to the conclusion
that he has purchased an engagement ring and is about to pop the question. As the two women rehearse Anna's "surprised" look, they're thrilled that Jeremy has finally "gotten the message." A quick meeting with Anna's father ( John Lithgow ) in a local bar allows the scriptwriters to plant the seed of their plot: an old Irish tradition that on February 29th of any
leap year , a woman can propose to a man. Later, over a romantic dinner, Anna is eagerly awaiting Jeremy's proposal when their meal keeps getting interrupted by one of his fellow surgeons. Called to the hospital (try not to cringe at the series of
aorta
puns), Jeremy gives Anna a beautiful pair of diamond earrings and informs her that, because he is headed to
Dublin
for a medical conference, he'll probably just go straight from the hospital to
Logan Airport . What follows is highly predictable. Nor would you be a major cynic if you examined the plot of
Leap Year
and concluded that it is essentially a mash-up of
Planes, Trains and Automobiles
and certain parts of
Brigadoon
with the main body of the film moved from
Scotland
to
Ireland
and a dash of the British humor that made such romantic comedies as
Four Weddings and a Funeral
and
Notting Hill
into major hits added in for good measure. It doesn't take long for Anna (a miserable control freak and the kind of self-serving technobrat you'd like to smack six ways to Sunday) to decide to surprise Jeremy in Dublin and propose to him on February 29th. With that decision, things start to go horribly wrong.
First, Anna's transatlantic flight is diverted to
Cardiff, Wales
due to a raging storm. Determined that nothing will stop her, she manages to charter a fishing boat to take her across the
Irish Sea , where she is deposited on the
Dingle
peninsula (which, curiously enough, is on the coast of Ireland that faces the
Atlantic Ocean
rather than
Wales ). Standing on a deserted beach with her rolling suitcase, fashionable high heels, and cell phone, Anna is very much out of her element. She's also a selfish little bitch with lots of attitude. One of Anna's most annoying character traits is an all-too-familiar American talent for insulting and alienating people and then trying to buy them off when in need of their help. Declan (Matthew Goode) and Anna (Amy Adams) As soon as she locks horns with Declan ( Matthew Goode ), a disgruntled, shaggy-looking innkeeper, the race is on to see if Anna can make it to Dublin in time to propose to Jeremy without falling in love with Declan. Trust me, if you had any brains you'd ditch Anna in a minute and run off with Declan yourself. As directed by
Anand Tucker ,
Leap Year
is designed to be a comfortable audience pleaser in which Anna's sense of entitlement is steadily undermined by Declan's pragmatic sarcasm while the emotionally wounded Declan feels his heart coming back to life. Eventually, the severely mismatched pair start to develop feelings for each other while cinematographer
Newton Thomas Sigel
does his best to turn the film into an infomercial for the hardy people at
Discover Ireland . Matthew Goode as Declan As appealing an actress as Amy Adams may be, she can't hold a candle to Matthew Goode's Declan. Goode (who recently appeared as
Colin Firth's
lover in
A Single Man ) is equally adept at playing straight and gay romantic leads. The bottom line is that he's a much more interesting actor than Adams, a factor of raw talent that nearly allows him to walk off with the film. That's not meant to suggest that
Leap Year
isn't worth your time. This is a very entertaining film that's gorgeous to look at and filled with moments of misguided romance,
schadenfreude , and human weakness. Like too many dinners of Chinese food, you'll feel hungry for more substance shortly after leaving the theatre. Here's the trailer:
Posted by
geoheymont
at
12:01 PM
No comments:
Post a Comment
Newer Post
Older Post
Home
Subscribe to:
Post Comments (Atom)
There was an error in this gadget
MAKE A DONATION!
George Heymont
Subscribe Now!
Posts
Atom
Posts
Comments
Atom
Comments
Subscribe via email
Enter your email address: Delivered by
FeedBurner
ME AND MY TOWN
About The Author
Tales of Tessi Tura
Miscellaneous Articles
Profiles and Interviews
Alert & Oriented
A Dying Art Form
Dictation Therapy For Doctors
See My Work on Huffington Post
SEARCH THE INTERNET
Enter your search terms
Submit search form
A DESPERATE GRASP ON REALITY
Raw Story
Daily Kos
AmericaBlog
AmericaBlog Gay
Salon.com
Huffington Post
Blog Archive
October 2015
(8)
September 2015
(9)
August 2015
(6)
July 2015
(12)
June 2015
(11)
May 2015
(8)
April 2015
(7)
March 2015
(9)
February 2015
(8)
January 2015
(6)
December 2014
(7)
November 2014
(11)
October 2014
(8)
September 2014
(9)
August 2014
(11)
July 2014
(13)
June 2014
(13)
May 2014
(11)
April 2014
(10)
March 2014
(8)
February 2014
(7)
January 2014
(8)
December 2013
(8)
November 2013
(10)
October 2013
(9)
September 2013
(14)
August 2013
(7)
July 2013
(11)
June 2013
(19)
May 2013
(9)
April 2013
(12)
March 2013
(19)
February 2013
(8)
January 2013
(11)
December 2012
(9)
November 2012
(13)
October 2012
(8)
September 2012
(16)
August 2012
(10)
July 2012
(16)
June 2012
(17)
May 2012
(17)
April 2012
(11)
March 2012
(16)
February 2012
(14)
January 2012
(13)
December 2011
(11)
November 2011
(12)
October 2011
(17)
September 2011
(18)
August 2011
(16)
July 2011
(11)
June 2011
(19)
May 2011
(15)
April 2011
(15)
March 2011
(16)
February 2011
(13)
January 2011
(11)
December 2010
(10)
November 2010
(16)
October 2010
(18)
September 2010
(17)
August 2010
(17)
July 2010
(13)
June 2010
(16)
May 2010
(14)
April 2010
(14)
March 2010
(20)
February 2010
(11)
January 2010
(12)
December 2009
(11)
November 2009
(17)
October 2009
(21)
September 2009
(16)
August 2009
(12)
July 2009
(15)
June 2009
(16)
May 2009
(16)
April 2009
(9)
March 2009
(19)
February 2009
(18)
January 2009
(17)
December 2008
(12)
November 2008
(14)
October 2008
(16)
September 2008
(16)
August 2008
(16)
July 2008
(19)
June 2008
(10)
December 2007
(153)
November 2007
(125)
There was an error in this gadget