The Wonderland Murders
| Just another WordPress.com weblog
Home
About
RSS
The Wonderland Murders
Just another WordPress.com weblog
Hey there! Thanks for dropping by The Wonderland Murders ! Take a look around and grab the
RSS feed
to stay updated. See you around!
Uncategorized
Classical Music
Latest Entries »
Johann Sebastian Bach
Filed under:
Classical Music
April 16, 2010
Johann Sebastian Bach
(German pronunciation:
[joˈhan]
or
[ˈjoːhan zeˈbastjan ˈbax] )
(31 March 1685 [ O.S.
21 March] – 28
July 1750) (often referred to simply as
Bach ) was a German
composer, organist, violist, and violinist whose ecclesiastical and
secular works for choir, orchestra, and solo instruments drew together
the strands of the
Baroque
period and brought it to its ultimate
maturity.
Although he did not introduce new forms, he enriched the prevailing
German style with a robust
contrapuntal
technique, an unrivalled control of harmonic and
motivic
organisation, and the adaptation of rhythms, forms
and textures from abroad, particularly from Italy and France.
Revered for their intellectual depth, technical command and artistic
beauty, Bach’s works include the
Brandenburg concertos , the
Goldberg Variations , the
Partitas ,
The Well-Tempered Clavier , the
Mass in B Minor , the
St Matthew Passion , the
St John Passion , the
Magnificat ,
The Musical Offering ,
The Art of Fugue , the
English
and
French Suites , the
Sonatas and
Partitas for solo violin , the
Cello Suites , more than 200 surviving
cantatas , and a
similar number of
organ
works, including the celebrated
Toccata and Fugue in D
minor
and
Passacaglia and Fugue
in C minor .
Bach’s abilities as an organist were highly respected throughout
Europe during his lifetime, although he was not widely recognised as a
great composer until a revival of interest and performances of his music
in the first half of the 19th century. He is now regarded as the
supreme composer of the Baroque, and as one of the greatest of all time.
Bach in a 1748 portrait by
Haussmann
Childhood
(1685–1703)
Johann Ambrosius Bach, Bach’s
father
Johann Sebastian Bach was born in
Eisenach ,
Saxe-Eisenach . He was the youngest child of
Johann Ambrosius Bach , the director of the
Stadtpfeifer or town musicians, and
Maria Elisabeth Lämmerhirt . His
father taught him to play violin and
harpsichord . His uncles were all professional musicians, whose posts ranged from
church organists and court chamber musicians to composers. One uncle,
Johann Christoph Bach
(1645–93), was especially famous and introduced him to the art of organ
playing. Bach was proud of his family’s musical achievements, and around
1735 he drafted a genealogy, “Origin of the musical Bach family”.
Bach’s mother died in 1694, and his father eight months later. The 10-year-old orphan moved in with his oldest brother,
Johann Christoph Bach
(1671–1721), the organist at the
Michaeliskirche
in nearby
Ohrdruf .  There, he copied, studied and performed music, and apparently received
valuable teaching from his brother, who instructed him on the
clavichord .
J.C. Bach exposed him to the works of the great South German composers
of the day, such as
Johann Pachelbel
(under whom Johann Christoph had
studied) and
Johann Jakob Froberger ; possibly to
the music of North German composers; to Frenchmen, such as
Jean-Baptiste Lully ,
Louis Marchand ,
Marin
Marais ; and to the Italian clavierist
Girolamo Frescobaldi . The young Bach probably
witnessed and assisted in the maintenance of the organ music. Bach’s
obituary indicates that he copied music out of Johann Christoph’s
scores, but his brother had apparently forbidden him to do so, possibly
because scores were valuable and private commodities at the time.
At the age of 14, Bach, along with his older school friend George
Erdmann, was awarded a choral scholarship to study at the prestigious
St. Michael’s School in
Lüneburg ,
not far from the northern seaport of
Hamburg ,
one of the largest cities in the
Holy Roman Empire . This involved a long journey with his friend, probably undertaken
partly on foot and partly by coach. His two years there appear to have
been critical in exposing him to a wider palette of European culture
than he would have experienced in
Thuringia .
In addition to singing in the a cappella choir, it is likely that he
played the School’s three-manual organ and its harpsichords. He probably
learned French and Italian, and received a thorough grounding in
theology, Latin, history, geography, and physics. He would have come
into contact with sons of noblemen from northern Germany sent to the
highly selective school to prepare for careers in diplomacy, government,
and the military.
Although little supporting historical evidence exists at this time,
it is almost certain that while in Lüneburg, young Bach would have
visited the
Johanniskirche
(Church of
St. John) and heard (and possibly played) the church’s famous organ
(built in 1549 by
Jasper
Johannsen
and nicknamed the “Böhm organ” after its most prominent
master,
Georg Böhm ). Given his innate musical talent,
Bach would have had significant contact with prominent organists of the
day in Lüneburg, most notably Böhm (the organist at Johanniskirche) as
well as organists in nearby Hamburg, such as
Johann Adam Reincken .
Arnstadt to Weimar
(1703–08)
St. Boniface’s Church in Arnstadt
In January 1703, shortly after graduating and failing an audition for
an organist’s post at
Sangerhausen , Bach took up a post as a court musician in the chapel of
Duke Johann Ernst
in
Weimar , a
large town in Thuringia. His role there is unclear, but appears to have
included menial, non-musical duties. During his seven-month tenure at
Weimar, his reputation as a keyboard player spread. He was invited to
inspect and give the inaugural recital on the new organ at St.
Boniface’s Church in
Arnstadt . The
Bach family
had close connections with this oldest town in
Thuringia, about 40 km to the southwest of Weimar at the edge of the
great forest. In August 1703, he accepted the post of organist at that church, with
light duties, a relatively generous salary, and a fine new organ tuned
to a modern system that allowed a wide range of keys to be used. At this
time, Bach was embarking on the serious composition of organ preludes;
these works, in the North German tradition of virtuosic, improvisatory
preludes, already showed tight motivic control (in which a single, short
music idea is explored cogently throughout a movement). However, in
these works the composer had yet to fully develop his powers of
large-scale organisation and his
contrapuntal
technique
(in which two or more melodies interact simultaneously).
Strong family connections and a musically enthusiastic employer
failed to prevent tension between the young organist and the authorities
after several years in the post. He was apparently dissatisfied with
the standard of singers in the choir; more seriously, there was his
unauthorised absence from Arnstadt for several months in 1705–06, when
he visited the great master
Dieterich Buxtehude
and his
Abendmusik
in the northern city of
Lübeck .
This well-known incident in Bach’s life involved his walking some
400 kilometres (250 mi) each way to spend time with the man he probably
regarded as the father figure of German organists. The trip reinforced
Buxtehude’s style as a foundation for Bach’s earlier works, and that he
overstayed his planned visit by several months suggests that his time
with the old man was of great value to his art. According to legend,
both Bach and
George Frideric Handel
wanted to become
amanuenses
of Buxtehude, but neither wanted to marry his daughter, as that was a
condition for the position.
Places in which Bach lived throughout his life
According to minutes from the proceedings of the Arnstadt consistory
in August 1705, Bach was involved in a brawl in Arnstadt:
“
Johann Sebastian Bach,
organist here at the New Church, appeared and stated that, as he walked
home yesterday, fairly late night … six students were sitting on the
“Langenstein” (Long Stone), and as he passed the town hall, the student
Geyersbach went after him with a stick, calling him to account: Why had
he [Bach] made abusive remarks about him? He [Bach] answered that he had
made no abusive remarks about him, and that no one could prove it, for
he had gone his way very quietly. Geyersbach retorted that while he
[Bach] might not have maligned him, he had maligned his bassoon at some
time, and whoever insulted his belongings insulted him as well …
[Geyersbach] had at once struck out at him. Since he had not been
prepared for this, he had been about to draw his dagger, but Geyersbach
had fallen into his arms, and the two of them tumbled about until the
rest of the students … had rushed toward them and separated them.
”
Despite his comfortable position in Arnstadt, by 1706 Bach appeared
to have realised that he needed to escape from the family milieu and
move on to further his career. He was offered a more lucrative post as
organist at St. Blasius’s in
Mühlhausen ,
a large and important city to the north. The following year, he took up
this senior post with significantly improved pay and conditions,
including a good choir. Four months after arriving at Mühlhausen, he
married his second cousin from Arnstadt,
Maria Barbara Bach . They had seven children, four of
whom survived to adulthood. Two of them— Wilhelm Friedemann Bach
and
Carl Philipp Emanuel Bach —became
important composers in the ornate
Rococo
style that followed the Baroque.
The church and city government at Mühlhausen agreed to his plan for
an expensive renovation of the organ at St. Blasius’s. Bach, in turn,
wrote an elaborate, festive
cantata
— Gott ist mein König, BWV 71 — for
the inauguration of the new council in 1708. The council was so
delighted with the piece that they paid handsomely for its publication,
and twice in later years had the composer return to conduct it. However,
that same year, Bach was offered a better position in Weimar.
Weimar
(1708–17)
A portrait of a young man, supposedly of Bach, but disputed
After barely a year at Mühlhausen, Bach left, to become the court
organist and
concertmaster
at the ducal court in Weimar, a
far cry from his earlier position there as ‘lackey’. The munificent
salary on offer at the court and the prospect of working entirely with a
large, well-funded contingent of professional musicians may have
prompted the move. The family moved into an apartment just five minutes’
walk from the ducal palace. In the following year, their first child
was born and they were joined by Maria Barbara’s elder, unmarried
sister, who remained with them to assist in the running of the household
until her death in 1729. It was in Weimar that the two musically
significant sons were born—Wilhelm Friedemann and Carl Philipp Emanuel
Bach.
Bach’s position in Weimar marked the start of a sustained period of
composing keyboard and orchestral works, in which he had attained the
technical proficiency and confidence to extend the prevailing
large-scale structures and to synthesise influences from abroad. From
the music of Italians such as
Vivaldi ,
Corelli
and
Torelli , he learned how to write dramatic openings and
adopted their sunny dispositions, dynamic motor-rhythms and decisive
harmonic schemes. Bach inducted himself into these stylistic aspects
largely by transcribing for harpsichord and organ the ensemble concertos
of Vivaldi; these works are still concert favourites. He may have
picked up the idea of transcribing the latest fashionable Italian music
from Prince
Johann Ernst , one of his
employers, who was a musician of professional calibre. In 1713, the Duke
returned from a tour of the
Low
Countries
with a large collection of scores, some of them possibly
transcriptions of the latest fashionable Italian music by the blind
organist Jan Jacob de Graaf. Bach was particularly attracted to the
Italian solo-tutti structure, in which one or more solo instruments
alternate section-by-section with the full orchestra throughout a
movement.
In Weimar, he had the opportunity to play and compose for the organ,
and to perform a varied repertoire of concert music with the duke’s
ensemble. A master of
contrapuntal
technique, Bach’s steady output of
fugues
began
in Weimar. The largest single body of his fugal writing is
Das wohltemperierte Clavier
(“The
well-tempered keyboard”— Clavier
meaning keyboard instrument).  It consists of two collections compiled in 1722 and 1744, each containing a prelude and fugue in every
major
and
minor key . This
is a monumental work for its masterful use of counterpoint and its
exploration, for the first time, of the full range of keys–and the means
of expression made possible by their slight differences from each
other—available to keyboardists when their instruments are tuned
according to systems such as that of
Andreas Werckmeister .
Violin Sonata No. 1
in G minor
(BWV 1001) in Bach’s handwriting
During his tenure at Weimar, Bach started work on the
“Little Organ Book”
for his eldest son,
Wilhelm Friedemann; this contains traditional
Lutheran
chorales
( hymn
tunes ), set in complex textures to assist the training of
organists. The book illustrates two major themes in Bach’s life: his
dedication to teaching and his love of the chorale as a musical form.
Bach eventually fell out of favour in Weimar and was, according to the
court secretary’s report, jailed for almost a month before being
unfavourably dismissed:
“
On November 6, [1717], the
quondam concertmaster and organist Bach was confined to the County
Judge’s place of detention for too stubbornly forcing the issue of his
dismissal and finally on December 2 was freed from arrest with notice of
his unfavourable discharge.
”
Köthen
(1717–23)
Bach began once again to search out a more stable job that was
conducive to his musical interests.
Leopold, Prince of
Anhalt-Köthen
hired Bach to serve as his
Kapellmeister
(director of music). Prince Leopold, himself a musician, appreciated
Bach’s talents, paid him well, and gave him considerable latitude in
composing and performing. However, the prince was
Calvinist
and did not use elaborate music in his worship; thus, most of Bach’s
work from this period was secular, including the
Orchestral suites , the
Six Suites for Unaccompanied Cello
and the
Sonatas and
partitas for solo violin . The well-known
Brandenburg concertos
date from
this period.
On 7 July 1720, while Bach was abroad with Prince Leopold, tragedy
struck: his wife, Maria Barbara, the mother of his first 7 children,
died suddenly. The following year, the widower met
Anna Magdalena Wilcke , a young, highly gifted
soprano 17 years his junior, who performed at the court in
Köthen ; they married on 3 December 1721. Together they had 13 more children, six of whom survived into
adulthood:
Gottfried Heinrich ,
Johann Christoph Friedrich
and
Johann Christian , all of whom became
significant musicians; Elisabeth Juliane Friederica (1726–81), who
married Bach’s pupil Johann Christoph Altnikol; Johanna Carolina
(1737–81); and Regina Susanna (1742–1809).
Leipzig
(1723–50)
Commemorative statue of J.S. Bach in Leipzig
In 1723, Bach was appointed Cantor of
Thomasschule , adjacent to the
Thomaskirche
(St. Thomas’s
Lutheran Church) in
Leipzig , as well as Director of Music in the
principal churches in the town. This was a prestigious post in the leading mercantile city in Saxony, a
neighbouring electorate to Thuringia. Apart from his brief tenures in
Arnstadt and Mühlhausen, this was Bach’s first government position in a
career that had mainly involved service to the aristocracy. This final
post, which he held for 27 years until his death, brought him into
contact with the political machinations of his employer, the Leipzig
Council. The Council comprised two factions: the Absolutists, loyal to
the Saxon monarch in Dresden,
Augustus the Strong ; and the
City-Estate faction, representing the interests of the mercantile class,
the guilds and minor aristocrats. Bach was the nominee of the
monarchists, in particular of the Mayor at the time, Gottlieb Lange, a
lawyer who had earlier served in the Dresden court. In return for
agreeing to Bach’s appointment, the City-Estate faction was granted
control of the School, and Bach was required to make a number of
compromises with respect to his working conditions. Although it appears that no one on the Council doubted Bach’s musical
genius, there was continual tension between the Cantor, who regarded
himself as the leader of church music in the city, and the City-Estate
faction, which saw him as a schoolmaster and wanted to reduce the
emphasis on elaborate music in both the School and the Churches. The
Council never honoured Lange’s promise at interview of a handsome salary
of 1,000 talers a year, although it did provide Bach and his family
with a smaller income and a good apartment at one end of the school
building, which was renovated at great expense in 1732.
St. Thomas Church, Leipzig , in
the 21st century
Bach’s job required him to instruct the students of the
Thomasschule
in singing and to
provide weekly music at the two main churches in Leipzig,
St. Thomas
and
St Nicholas . His post also
obliged him to teach Latin, but he was allowed to employ a deputy to do
this instead. In an astonishing burst of creativity, he wrote up to five
annual cantata cycles during his first six years in Leipzig (two of
which have apparently been lost). Most of these concerted works expound
on the Gospel readings for every Sunday and feast day in the Lutheran
year; many were written using traditional church hymns, such as
Wachet auf, ruft uns
die Stimme
and
Nun komm, der Heiden Heiland , as inspiration.
To rehearse and perform these works at St. Thomas Church, Bach
probably sat at the harpsichord or stood in front of the choir on the
lower gallery at the west end, his back to the congregation and the
altar at the east end. He would have looked upwards to the organ that
rose from a loft about four metres above. To the right of the organ in a
side gallery would have been the winds, brass and timpani; to the left
were the strings. The Council provided only about eight permanent
instrumentalists, a source of continual friction with the Cantor, who
had to recruit the rest of the 20 or so players required for
medium-to-large scores from the University, the School and the public.
The organ or harpsichord was probably played by the composer (when not
standing to conduct), the in-house organist, or one of Bach’s elder
sons, Wilhelm Friedemann or Carl Philipp Emanuel.
Bach drew the soprano and alto choristers from the School, and the
tenors and basses from the School and elsewhere in Leipzig. Performing
at weddings and funerals provided extra income for these groups; it was
probably for this purpose, and for in-school training, that he wrote at
least six
motets ,
mostly for
double choir .
As part of his regular church work, he performed motets of the
Venetian School
and Germans such as
Heinrich Schütz , which would have served as
formal models for his own motets.
Having spent much of the 1720s composing cantatas, Bach had assembled
a huge repertoire of church music for Leipzig’s two main churches. He
now wished to broaden his composing and performing beyond the liturgy.
In March 1729, he took over the directorship of the
Collegium Musicum , a secular performance ensemble that had
been started in 1701 by his old friend, the composer
Georg Philipp Telemann . This was one of the dozens
of private societies in the major German-speaking cities that had been
established by musically active university students; these societies had
come to play an increasingly important role in public musical life and
were typically led by the most prominent professionals in a city. In the
words of
Christoph Wolff , assuming the directorship
was a shrewd move that ‘consolidated Bach’s firm grip on Leipzig’s
principal musical institutions’. During much of the year, Leipzig’s Collegium Musicum gave twice-weekly,
two-hour performances in Zimmerman’s Coffeehouse on Catherine Street,
just off the main market square. For this purpose, the proprietor
provided a large hall and acquired several musical instruments. Many of
Bach’s works during the 1730s and 1740s were probably written for and
performed by the Collegium Musicum; among these were almost certainly
parts of the
Clavier-Übung
( Keyboard Practice ) and
many of the violin and
harpsichord concertos .
Zimmerman’s Coffeehouse in Leipzig, where Bach’s Collegium Musicum gave
regular concerts
During this period, he composed the Kyrie and Gloria of the
Mass in B Minor , and in 1733, he presented the manuscript
to the King of Poland, Grand Duke of Lithuania and Elector of Saxony,
August III
in an ultimately
successful bid to persuade the monarch to appoint him as Royal Court
Composer. He later extended this work into a full Mass, by adding a
Credo, Sanctus and Agnus Dei, the music for which was almost wholly
taken from some of the best of his cantata movements. Bach’s appointment
as court composer appears to have been part of his long-term struggle
to achieve greater bargaining power with the Leipzig Council. Although
the complete mass was probably never performed during the composer’s
lifetime, it is considered to be among the greatest choral works of all time.
Between 1737 and 1739, Bach’s former pupil
Carl Gotthelf Gerlach
took over the directorship
of the Collegium Musicum.
In 1747, Bach went to the court of
Frederick II of Prussia
in
Potsdam ,
where the king played a theme for Bach and challenged him to improvise a
fugue based on his theme. Bach improvised a three-part fugue on
Frederick’s
pianoforte , then a novelty, and later presented
the king with a
Musical Offering
which consists of fugues,
canons and a trio based on the “royal theme,” nominated by the monarch.
Its six-part fugue includes a slightly altered subject more suitable for
extensive elaboration.
The Art of Fugue , published posthumously but
probably written years before Bach’s death, is unfinished. It consists
of 18 complex fugues and canons based on a simple theme. A magnum opus of thematic transformation and contrapuntal devices, this
work is often cited as the summation of polyphonic techniques.
The final work Bach completed was a chorale prelude for organ,
dictated to his son-in-law,
Johann Altnikol , from his
deathbed. Entitled
Vor deinen Thron tret ich hiermit
( Before
thy throne I now appear ,
BWV
668a); when the notes on the
three staves of the final cadence are counted and mapped onto the Roman
alphabet, the initials “JSB” are found. The chorale is often played after the unfinished 14th fugue to conclude
performances of
The Art of Fugue .
Death (1750)
The 1750 “Volbach Portrait” may show Bach in the last months of his life
Bach’s final resting place,
St. Thomas’
Church, Leipzig
Bach’s health may have been in decline in 1749; on 2 June,
Heinrich von Brühl
wrote to one of the
Leipzig
burgomasters
to request that his music director,
Gottlob Harrer, fill the post of
Thomascantor
and
Director
musices
posts “upon the eventual … decease of Mr. Bach.” Bach became increasingly blind, and the celebrated British eye surgeon
John Taylor
(who had operated
unsuccessfully on
Handel ) operated on Bach while visiting Leipzig in
1750. Bach died on 28 July 1750 at the age of 65. A contemporary
newspaper reported the cause of death as “from the unhappy consequences
of the very unsuccessful eye operation”. Some modern historians speculate the cause of death was a stroke
complicated by pneumonia.
His estate was valued at 1159
thalers
and included five
Clavecins , two
lute-harpsichords, three violins, three violas, two cellos, a
viola da gamba , a
lute
and a
spinet ,
and 52 “sacred books” (many by
Martin
Luther , Muller and Pfeiffer, including
Josephus ‘
History of the Jews
and nine volumes of Paul Wagner’s
Leipzig
Song Book ).
A modern reconstruction of Bach’s head using computer modelling
techniques, unveiled 3 March 2008 in Berlin, showed the composer as a
strong-jawed man with a slight underbite, his large head topped with
short, silver hair.
Musical style
Bach’s musical style arose from his extraordinary fluency in
contrapuntal invention and motivic control, his flair for improvisation
at the keyboard, his exposure to South German, North German, Italian and
French music, and his apparent devotion to the Lutheran liturgy. His
access to musicians, scores and instruments as a child and a young man,
combined with his emerging talent for writing tightly woven music of
powerful sonority, appear to have set him on course to develop an
eclectic, energetic musical style in which foreign influences were
injected into an intensified version of the pre-existing German musical
language. Throughout his teens and 20s, his output showed increasing
skill in the large-scale organisation of musical ideas, and the
enhancement of the Buxtehudian model of improvisatory preludes and
counterpoint of limited complexity. The period 1713–14, when a large
repertoire of Italian music became available to the Weimar court
orchestra, was a turning point. From this time onwards, he appears to
have absorbed into his style the Italians’ dramatic openings, clear
melodic contours, the sharp outlines of their bass lines, greater
motoric and rhythmic conciseness, more unified motivic treatment, and
more clearly articulated schemes for modulation.
There are several more specific features of Bach’s style. The
notation of Baroque melodic lines tended to assume that composers would
write out only the basic framework, and that performers would embellish
this framework by inserting ornamental notes and otherwise elaborating
on it. Although this practice varied considerably between the schools of
European music, Bach was regarded at the time as being on one extreme
end of the spectrum, notating most or all of the details of his melodic
lines—particularly in his fast movements—thus leaving little for
performers to interpolate. This may have assisted his control over the
dense contrapuntal textures that he favoured, which allow less leeway
for the spontaneous variation of musical lines. Bach’s contrapuntal
textures tend to be more cumulative than those of Händel and most other
composers of the day, who would typically allow a line to drop out after
it had been joined by two or three others. Bach’s harmony is marked by a
tendency to employ brief
tonicisation —subtle
references to another key that lasts for only a few beats at the
longest—particularly of the
supertonic ,
to add colour to his textures.
The opening of the six-part fugue from
The Musical Offering , in
Bach’s hand
At the same time, Bach, unlike later composers, left the
instrumentation of major works including
The Art of Fugue
and
The
Musical Offering
open. It is likely that his detailed notation was
less an absolute demand on the performer and more a response to a
17th-century culture in which the boundary between what the performer
could embellish and what the composer demanded to be authentic was being
negotiated.
Bach’s apparently devout, personal relationship with the Christian
God in the
Lutheran
tradition and the high
demand for religious music of his times inevitably placed sacred music
at the centre of his repertory; more specifically, the Lutheran chorale
hymn tune, the principal musical aspect of the Lutheran service, was the
basis of much of his output. He invested the chorale prelude, already a
standard set of Lutheran forms, with a more cogent, tightly integrated
architecture, in which the intervallic patterns and melodic contours of
the tune were typically treated in a dense, contrapuntal lattice against
relatively slow-moving, overarching statements of the tune.
Bach’s theology also informed his compositional structures:
Sei
Gegrüsset
is perhaps the finest example where there is a theme with
11 variations (making 12 movements) that, while still one work, becomes
two sets of six—to match Lutheran preaching principles of repetition. At
the same time the theological interpretation of ‘master’ and 11
disciples would not be lost on his contemporary audience. Further, the
practical relationship of each variation to the next (in preparing
registration and the expected textural changes) seems to show an
incredible capacity to preach through the music using the musical forms
available at the time.
Bach’s seal, used throughout his Leipzig years. It contains the letters
J
S B
superimposed over their mirror image topped with a crown.
Bach’s deep knowledge of and interest in the liturgy led to his
developing intricate relationships between music and linguistic text.
This was evident from the smallest to the largest levels of his
compositional technique. On the smallest level, many of his sacred works
contain short motifs that, by recurrent association, can be regarded as
pictorial symbolism and articulations of liturgical concepts. For
example, the octave leap, usually in a bass line, represents the
relationship between heaven and earth; the slow, repeated notes of the
bass line in the opening movement of cantata
Gottes Zeit ist
die allerbeste Zeit, BWV 106 ) depict the laboured trudging of
Jesus as he was forced to drag the cross from the city to the
crucifixion site.
On the largest level, the large-scale structure of some of his sacred
vocal works is evidence of subtle, elaborate planning: for example, the
overall form of the
St Matthew Passion
illustrates the
liturgical and dramatic flow of the Easter story on a number of levels
simultaneously; the text, keys and variations of instrumental and vocal
forces used in the movements of the Ascension Oratorio
Lobet Gott in seinen
Reichen, BWV 11 ) may form a structure that resembles the cross.
Beyond these specific musical features arising from Bach’s religious
affiliation is the fact that he was able to produce music for an
audience that was committed to serious, regular worship, for which a
concentrated density and complexity was accepted. His natural
inclination may have been to reinvigorate existing forms, rather than to
discard them and pursue more dramatic musical innovations. Thus, Bach’s
inventive genius was almost entirely directed towards working within
the structures he inherited, according to most critics and historians.
Frontispiece of Bach’s
Clavier-Büchlein vor Anna
Magdalena Bach , composed in 1722 for his second wife
Bach’s inner personal drive to display his musical achievements was
evident in a number of ways. The most obvious was his successful
striving to become the leading virtuoso and improviser of the day on the
organ. Keyboard music occupied a central position in his output
throughout his life, and he pioneered the elevation of the keyboard from
continuo
to solo instrument in his numerous
harpsichord concertos
and chamber movements with keyboard
obbligato ,
in which he himself probably played the solo part. Many of his keyboard
preludes are vehicles for a free improvisatory virtuosity in the German
tradition, although their internal organisation became increasingly
more cogent as he matured. Virtuosity is a key element in other forms,
such as the fugal movement from
Brandenburg Concerto No. 4 , in
which Bach himself may have been the first to play the rapid solo violin
passages. Another example is in the organ fugue from BWV 548, a late
work from Leipzig, in which virtuosic passages are mapped onto Italian
solo-tutti alternation within the fugal development.
Related to his cherished role as teacher was his drive to encompass
whole genres by producing collections of movements that thoroughly
explore the range of artistic and technical possibilities inherent in
those genres. The most famous examples are the two books of the
Well Tempered Clavier , each of
which presents a prelude and fugue in every major and minor key, in
which a variety of contrapuntal and fugal techniques are displayed. The
English and French Suites, and the Partitas, all keyboard works from the
Köthen period, systematically explore a range of metres and of sharp
and flat keys. This urge to manifest structures is evident throughout
his life: the
Goldberg Variations
(1746?), include a
sequence of canons at increasing intervals (unison, seconds, thirds,
etc.), and
The Art of Fugue
(1749) can be seen as a
compendium of fugal techniques.
Family members
Wilhelm Friedemann Bach
(1710–84)
Carl Philipp Emanuel Bach
(1714–88)
Johann Christoph Friedrich Bach
(1732–95)
Johann Christian Bach
(1735–82)
See also:
Bach
family
Bach married his second cousin
Maria Barbara Bach
in 1707. They had seven children,
four of whom survived to adulthood:
Catharina Dorothea (28 December 1708 – 14 January 1774).
Wilhelm Friedemann
(22 November 1710
– 1 July 1784).
Carl Philipp Emanuel
(8 March 1714
– 14 December 1788).
Johann Gottfried Bernhard
(11
May 1715 – 27 May 1739).
Maria died in 1720, and Bach married
Anna Magdalena Wilcke
in 1721. They had a further 13
children, six of whom survived to adulthood:
Gottfried Heinrich
(1724–63)
Elisabeth Juliana Friederica, called “Lieschen” (1726–81)
Johann Christoph Friedrich ,
the “Bückeburg” Bach (1732–95)
Johann Christian , the “London” Bach
(1735–82)
Johanna Carolina (1737–81)
Regina Susanna (1742–1809)
Although Bach fathered 20 children, only 10 survived infancy. He has
no known descendants living today. His great-granddaughter—Frau Carolina
Augusta Wilhelmine Ritter, who died 13 May 1871—was his last known
descendant.
Works
Main articles:
BWV
and
List of
compositions by Johann Sebastian Bach
See also:
Category:Compositions
by Johann Sebastian Bach ,
List of fugal
works by Johann Sebastian Bach , and
List
of transcriptions of compositions by Johann Sebastian Bach
J.S. Bach’s works are indexed with BWV numbers, an
initialism
for
Bach Werke Verzeichnis
(Bach Works Catalogue). The catalogue, published in 1950, was compiled
by
Wolfgang Schmieder . The catalogue is
organised thematically, rather than chronologically: BWV 1–224 are
cantatas ;
BWV 225–249, the large-scale choral works; BWV 250–524,
chorales
and sacred songs; BWV 525–748,
organ
works; BWV 772–994, other keyboard works; BWV
995–1000,
lute
music; BWV 1001–40,
chamber
music ; BWV 1041–71, orchestral music; and BWV 1072–1126,
canons
and
fugues . In compiling the catalogue, Schmieder largely
followed the Bach Gesellschaft Ausgabe, a comprehensive edition of the
composer’s works that was produced between 1850 and 1905. For a list of
works catalogued by BWV number, see
List of
compositions by Johann Sebastian Bach .
Organ works
Bach was best known during his lifetime as an organist, organ
consultant, and composer of organ works in both the traditional German
free genres—such as
preludes ,
fantasias , and
toccatas —and
stricter forms, such as
chorale preludes
and
fugues . He
established a reputation at a young age for his great creativity and
ability to integrate foreign styles into his organ works. A decidedly
North German influence was exerted by
Georg
Böhm , with whom Bach came into contact in Lüneburg, and
Dieterich Buxtehude
in
Lübeck ,
whom the young organist visited in 1704 on an extended leave of absence
from his job in Arnstadt. Around this time, Bach copied the works of
numerous French and Italian composers to gain insights into their
compositional languages, and later arranged violin concertos by
Vivaldi
and others for organ and harpsichord. His most
productive period (1708–14) saw the composition of several pairs of
preludes and
fugues
and toccatas and fugues, and of the
Orgelbüchlein
(“Little organ book”), an
unfinished collection of 45 short chorale preludes that demonstrate
compositional techniques in the setting of
chorale
tunes. After he left Weimar, Bach’s output for organ fell off, although
his best-known works (the six
trio
sonatas , the “German Organ Mass” in
Clavier-Übung III
from 1739, and the “ Great Eighteen ” chorales,
revised late in his life) were all composed after this time. Bach was
extensively engaged later in his life in consulting on organ projects,
testing newly built organs, and dedicating organs in afternoon recitals. One of the high points may be the third part of the
Clavier-Übung ,
a setting of 21 chorale preludes uniting the traditional Catholic Missa
with the Lutheran catechism liturgy, the whole set interpolated between
the mighty “St. Anne” Prelude and Fugue on the theme of the Trinity.
Other keyboard
works
The title page of the third part of the
Clavier-Übung , one of the
few works by Bach that was published during his lifetime
Bach wrote many works for the
harpsichord ,
some of which may also have been played on the
clavichord .
Many of his keyboard works are anthologies that show an eagerness to
encompass whole theoretical systems in an encyclopaedic fashion.
The Well-Tempered Clavier ,
Books 1 and 2 (BWV 846–893). Each book comprises a prelude and fugue in
each of the 24 major and minor
keys
in chromatic order from C major to B minor (thus, the whole collection
is often referred to as ‘the 48’). “Well-tempered” in the title refers
to the
temperament
(system of tuning); many
temperaments before Bach’s time were not flexible enough to allow
compositions to move through more than just a few keys.
The
15
Inventions and 15 Sinfonias
(BWV 772–801). These short two- and
three-part contrapuntal works are arranged in the same chromatic order
as the Well-Tempered Clavier, omitting some of the less used keys. The
pieces were intended by Bach for instructional purposes.
Three collections of
dance suites : the
English Suites
(BWV 806–811) , the
French Suites
(BWV 812–817)
and the
Partitas
for keyboard
(BWV 825–830). Each collection contains six suites
built on the standard model ( Allemande – Courante – Sarabande –(optional
movement)– Gigue ).
The English Suites closely follow the traditional model, adding a
prelude before the allemande and including a single movement between the
sarabande and the gigue. The French Suites omit preludes, but have
multiple movements between the sarabande and the gigue. The partitas
expand the model further with elaborate introductory movements and
miscellaneous movements between the basic elements of the model.
The
Goldberg Variations
(BWV 988), an
aria with thirty
variations . The collection has a complex
and unconventional structure: the variations build on the
bass line
of the aria, rather than its melody,
and musical
canons
are interpolated according to a grand
plan. There are nine canons within the 30 variations, one placed every
three variations between variations 3 and 27. These variations move in
order from canon at the unison to canon at the ninth. The first eight
are in pairs (unison and octave, second and seventh, third and sixth,
fourth and fifth). The ninth canon stands on its own due to
compositional dissimilarities.
Miscellaneous pieces such as the
Overture in the
French Style
( French Overture , BWV 831),
Chromatic
Fantasia and Fugue
(BWV 903), and the
Italian Concerto (BWV 971) .
Among Bach’s lesser known keyboard works are seven
toccatas
(BWV 910–916),
four duets (BWV 802–805) ,
sonatas
for keyboard (BWV 963–967), the Six Little
Preludes
(BWV 933–938), and the
Aria variata alla
maniera italiana
(BWV 989).
Orchestral
and chamber music
Bach wrote music for single instruments, duets and small ensembles.
Bach’s works for solo instruments—the six
sonatas and
partitas for violin
(BWV 1001–1006), the six
cello suites
(BWV 1007–1012) and the Partita for
solo flute ( BWV 1013 )—may be listed among the most
profound works in the repertoire. Bach also composed a suite and several
other works for solo lute. He wrote
trio
sonatas ; solo
sonatas
(accompanied by
continuo )
for the flute and for the
viola da gamba ; and a large number of
canons
and
ricercare , mostly for unspecified instrumentation.
The most significant examples of the latter are contained in
The Art of Fugue
and
The Musical Offering .
Bach’s best-known orchestral works are the
Brandenburg concertos , so named
because he submitted them in the hope of gaining employment from
Margrave
Christian
Ludwig of Brandenburg-Schwedt
in 1721; his application was
unsuccessful. These works are examples of the
concerto grosso
genre. Other surviving works in the
concerto
form include two violin concertos ( BWV 1041
and
BWV 1042 ); a Concerto for Two Violins in D Minor
( BWV 1043 ), often referred to as Bach’s “double”
concerto; and
concertos for one, two,
three and even four harpsichords . It is widely accepted that many of
the harpsichord concertos were not original works, but arrangements of
his concertos for other instruments now lost. A number of violin, oboe
and flute concertos have been reconstructed from these. In addition to
concertos, Bach also wrote four
orchestral suites , a series of
stylised dances for orchestra, each preceded by a
French overture . The work now known as the
Air on the G String
is an arrangement for the violin
made in the nineteenth century from the second movement of the
Orchestral Suite No. 3.
Vocal and
choral works
Bach performed a
cantata
on Sunday at the
Thomaskirche , on a theme corresponding to the
lectionary
readings of the week, as determined by the Lutheran Church Year
calendar. He did not perform cantatas during the seasons of Lent and
Advent. Although he performed cantatas by other composers, he also
composed at least three entire sets of cantatas, one for each Sunday and
holiday of the church year, at Leipzig, in addition to those composed
at
Mühlhausen
and Weimar. In total he wrote more
than 300 sacred cantatas, of which approximately 195 survive.
His cantatas vary greatly in form and instrumentation. Some of them
are only for a solo singer; some are single choruses; some are for grand
orchestras; some only a few instruments. A very common format, however,
includes a large opening chorus followed by one or more recitative-aria
pairs for soloists (or duets) and a concluding
chorale .
The recitative is part of the corresponding Bible reading for the week
and the aria is a contemporary reflection on it. The melody of the
concluding chorale often appears as a
cantus
firmus
in the opening movement. Among the best known cantatas are
Christ lag in Todesbanden, BWV 4 ,
Ich hatte viel Bekümmernis,
BWV 21 ,
Ein’ feste Burg ist
unser Gott, BWV 80 ,
Gottes Zeit ist
die allerbeste Zeit, BWV 106
( Actus Tragicus ),
Wachet auf, ruft uns
die Stimme, BWV 140
and
Herz und Mund und Tat
und Leben, BWV 147 .
In addition, Bach wrote a number of secular cantatas, usually for
civic events such as council inaugurations. These also include wedding
cantatas, the
Wedding Quodlibet , the
Peasant
Cantata
and the
Coffee Cantata , which concerns a
girl whose father will not let her marry until she gives up her
addiction to that extremely popular drink.
Bach’s large choral-orchestral works include the grand scale
St
Matthew Passion
and
St John Passion , both written for Good
Friday vespers services at St. Thomas and St. Nicholas Churches in
alternate years, and the
Christmas Oratorio
(a set of six cantatas for use in
the
Liturgical season
of Christmas). The
Magnificat
in two versions (one in E-flat major, with four interpolated
Christmas-related movements, and the later and better-known version in D
major), the
Easter Oratorio , and the
Ascension Oratorio
compare to
large, elaborate cantatas, of a lesser extent than the Passions and the
Christmas Oratorio.
Title page of the Calov Bible, with Bach’s signature in the bottom right
hand corner.
Bach’s other large work, the
Mass in B minor , was assembled by
Bach near the end of his life, mostly from pieces composed earlier (such
as cantata
Gloria in excelsis Deo, BWV 191
and
Weinen, Klagen, Sorgen,
Zagen, BWV 12 ). It was never performed in Bach’s lifetime, or
even after his death, until the 19th century.
All of these works, unlike the six
motets
( Singet
dem Herrn ein neues Lied ;
Der Geist hilft unser Schwachheit auf ;
Jesu, meine Freude ;
Fürchte dich nicht ;
Komm, Jesu,
komm! ; and
Lobet den Herrn alle Heiden ), have substantial
solo parts as well as choruses.
Bach’s signature in a copy of a three volume Bible commentary by the
orthodox Lutheran theologian, Abraham Calov, was discovered in 1934 in a
house in Frankenmuth, Michigan in the US. It is not known how the Bible
came to America, but it was purchased in a used book store in
Philadelphia in the 1830s or 1840s by an immigrant and taken to
Michigan. Its provenance was verified and it was subsequently deposited
in the rare book holdings of
Concordia Seminary
in
St. Louis, Missouri . It contains Bach’s markings of
texts for his cantatas and notes. It is only rarely displayed to the
public. A study of the so-called Bach Bible was prepared by Robin
Leaver, titled J.S. Bach and Scripture: Glosses from the Calov Bible
Commentary (St. Louis: Concordia Publishing House, 1985).
Performances
Present-day Bach performers usually pursue either of two traditions:
so-called “ authentic performance
practice”, utilising historical techniques, or alternatively the use of
modern instruments and playing techniques, with a tendency towards
larger ensembles. In Bach’s time orchestras and choirs were usually
smaller than those known to, for example,
Brahms , and even Bach’s most ambitious choral
works, such as his
Mass in B minor
and Passions, are composed for
relatively modest forces. Some of Bach’s important chamber music does
not indicate instrumentation, which gives greater latitude for variety
of ensemble.
Easy listening
realisations of Bach’s music and its use
in advertising also contributed greatly to Bach’s popularisation in the
second half of the twentieth century. Among these were the
Swingle Singers ‘ versions of Bach
pieces that are now well-known (for instance, the
Air on the G string , or the
Wachet
Auf
chorale prelude) and
Wendy
Carlos ‘s 1968 groundbreaking recording
Switched-On Bach , using the then recently invented
Moog electronic synthesiser . Jazz musicians have also
adopted Bach’s music, with
Jacques Loussier ,
Ian Anderson ,
Uri
Caine
and the
Modern Jazz Quartet
among those creating jazz versions
of Bach works.
Legacy
and modern reputation
Since being moved in 1938, the
Donndorf
statue of Bach now stands in the Frauenplan in
Eisenach. The pedestal has been shortened and the relief is now at the
wall in the background.
After his death, Bach’s reputation as a composer declined; his work
was regarded as old-fashioned in favour of the emerging
classical style . Initially he was remembered more as a player, teacher and as the father
of his children, most notably
Johann Christian
and
Carl Philipp Emanuel . (Two other
children,
Wilhelm Friedmann
and
Johann Christoph Friedrich ,
were also composers.)
During this time, his most widely known works were those for
keyboard.
Mozart ,
Beethoven , and
Chopin
were among his most prominent
admirers. On a visit to the Thomasschule, for example, Mozart heard a
performance of one of the
motets
(BWV 225) and exclaimed “Now, here is something
one can learn from!”;
on being given the motets’ parts, “Mozart sat down, the parts all
around him, held in both hands, on his knees, on the nearest chairs.
Forgetting everything else, he did not stand up again until he had
looked through all the music of Sebastian Bach”. Beethoven was a devotee, learning the
Well-Tempered Clavier
as a
child and later calling Bach the “Urvater der Harmonie” (“Original
father of harmony”) and, in a pun on the literal meaning of Bach’s name,
“nicht Bach, sondern Meer” (“not a brook, but a sea”).  Before performing a concert, Chopin used to lock himself away and play
Bach’s music. Several notable composers, including Mozart, Beethoven,
Robert Schumann , and
Felix Mendelssohn
began writing in a more contrapuntal
style after being introduced to Bach’s music.
The revival of the composer’s reputation among the wider public was
prompted in part by
Johann Nikolaus Forkel ‘s 1802 biography,  which was read by Beethoven.
Goethe
became acquainted with Bach’s works
relatively late in life through a series of performances of keyboard and
choral works at
Bad Berka
in 1814 and 1815; in a letter of 1827 he
compared the experience of listening to Bach’s music to “eternal
harmony in dialogue with itself”.  But it was
Felix Mendelssohn
who did the most to
revive Bach’s reputation with his 1829 Berlin performance of the
St
Matthew Passion .
Hegel , who attended the performance, later
called Bach a “grand, truly Protestant, robust and, so to speak, erudite
genius which we have only recently learned again to appreciate at its
full value”. Mendelssohn’s promotion of Bach, and the growth of the composer’s
stature, continued in subsequent years. The
Bach Gesellschaft
(Bach Society) was founded in 1850
to promote the works; by 1899, the Society had published a comprehensive
edition of the composer’s works, with a conservative approach to
editorial intervention.
Thereafter, Bach’s reputation has remained consistently high. During
the 20th century, the process of recognising the musical as well as the
pedagogic value of some of the works has continued, perhaps most notably
in the promotion of the
Cello Suites
by
Pablo
Casals . Another development has been the growth of the “authentic”
or
period performance
movement, which, as far as possible, attempts to present the music as
the composer intended it. Examples include the playing of keyboard works
on the
harpsichord
rather than a modern
grand piano
and the use of small choirs or
single voices instead of the larger forces favoured by 19th- and early
20th-century performers.
Bach’s contributions to music—or, to borrow a term popularised by his
student
Lorenz Christoph Mizler , his
“musical science”—are frequently bracketed with those by
William Shakespeare
in English literature and
Isaac
Newton
in physics.  Scientist and author
Lewis
Thomas
once suggested how the people of Earth should communicate
with the universe: “I would vote for Bach, all of Bach, streamed out
into space, over and over again. We would be bragging, of course, but it
is surely excusable to put the best possible face on at the beginning
of such an acquaintance. We can tell the harder truths later.”
Street named after Johann Sebastian Bach in
Wittenberg ,
Germany
Some composers have paid tribute to Bach by setting his name in
musical notes (B-flat, A, C, B-natural; B-natural is notated as “H” in
German musical texts, while B-flat is just “B”) or using contrapuntal
derivatives.
Liszt , for example, wrote a prelude and fugue on
this
BACH motif
in versions for organ and piano). Bach himself set
the precedent for this musical acronym, most notably in Contrapunctus
XIV from the
Art of Fugue . Whereas
Bach also conceived this
cruciform
melody (among other similar ones) as a sign of devotion to Christ and
his cross, later
composers have employed the BACH motif in homage to the composer
himself. Some of the greatest composers since Bach have written works
that explicitly pay homage to him. Examples include
Beethoven ‘s
Diabelli Variations ,
Shostakovich ‘s
Preludes and Fugues ,
and
Brahms ‘s
Cello Sonata in E , whose
finale is based on themes from the Art of Fugue. A 20th-century work
very strongly influenced by Bach is
Villa-Lobos ‘s
Bachianas Brasileiras .
Bach in
popular culture
Bach is the most represented artist on the
Voyager Golden Record , a phonograph record included
in
two Voyager missions ; his compositions comprise three of
the 27 recordings chosen. Many early examples of synthesised music
played on the
Commodore 64
home
computer ‘s
SID
chip were realisations of Bach’s contrapuntal
works.
Today the “Bach style” continues to influence musical composition,
from hymns and religious works to pop and rock. Many of Bach’s
themes—particularly the theme from
Toccata and
Fugue in D minor —have been used in rock songs and
have achieved popularity.
As recently as 1986 the album
Switched On Bach
reached
RIAA
platinum
status certifying that it sold over 1,000,000 units. Earlier this album
entered
Billboard’s
pop Top 40 charts
on March 1, 1969, and climbed quickly to
the Top 10. It stayed in the Top 40 for 17 weeks.
Permalink
Johannes Brahms
Filed under:
Uncategorized
—
Leave a comment
Johannes Brahms
(pronounced
[joːˈhanəs ˈbʁaːms] ) (7 May
1833 – 3 April 1897), was a
German
composer and pianist, one of the leading musicians of the
Romantic period . Born in
Hamburg ,
Brahms spent much of his professional life in
Vienna ,
Austria ,
where he was a leader of the musical scene. In his lifetime, Brahms’s
popularity and influence were considerable; following a comment by the
nineteenth-century conductor
Hans von Bülow , he is sometimes grouped with
Johann Sebastian Bach
and
Ludwig van Beethoven
as one of the
Three Bs .
Brahms composed for piano, chamber ensembles, symphony orchestra, and
for voice and chorus. A virtuoso pianist, he gave the first performance
of many of his own works; he also worked with the leading performers of
his time, including the pianist
Clara Schumann
and the violinist
Joseph Joachim . Many of his works have become staples of
the modern concert repertoire. Brahms, an uncompromising perfectionist,
destroyed many of his works and left some of them unpublished.
Brahms was at once a traditionalist and an innovator. His music is
firmly rooted in the structures and compositional techniques of the
Baroque and Classical masters. He was a master of
counterpoint ,
the complex and highly disciplined method of composition for which Bach
is famous, and also of
development , a compositional ethos pioneered by
Haydn ,
Mozart
and
Beethoven . Brahms aimed to honour the “purity”
of these venerable “German” structures and advance them into a Romantic
idiom, in the process creating bold new approaches to harmony and
melody. While many contemporaries found his music too academic, his
contribution and craftsmanship have been admired by subsequent figures
as diverse as the progressive
Arnold Schoenberg
and the conservative
Edward
Elgar . The diligent, highly constructed nature of Brahms’s works
was a starting point and an inspiration for a generation of composers.
Johannes Brahms
Life
Early years
Brahms’s father, Johann Jakob Brahms (1806–72), came to Hamburg from
Dithmarschen ,
seeking a career as a town musician. He was proficient on several
instruments, but found employment mostly playing the
horn
and
double
bass . In 1830, he married Johanna Henrika Christiane Nissen
(1789–1865), a seamstress never previously married, who was seventeen
years older than he was. Johannes Brahms had an older sister and a
younger brother. Initially, they lived near the city docks, in the
Gängeviertel quarter of Hamburg, for six months, before moving to a
small house on the Dammtorwall, located on the northern perimeter of
Hamburg, in the Inner Alster.
Photograph from 1891 of the building in Hamburg where Brahms was born.
Brahms’s family occupied part of the first floor, behind the two double
windows on the left hand side.
Johann Jakob gave his son his first musical training. He studied
piano from the age of seven with Otto Friedrich Willibald Cossel. It is a
long-told tale that Brahms was forced in his early teens to play the
piano in bars that doubled as brothels; recently, Brahms scholar Kurt
Hoffman has suggested that this legend is false. Since Brahms himself
clearly originated the story, however, some have questioned Hoffman’s
theory.
For a time, Brahms also learned the cello. After his early piano lessons with Otto Cossel, Brahms studied piano
with
Eduard Marxsen , who had studied in
Vienna
with
Ignaz von Seyfried
(a pupil of
Mozart ) and
Carl
Maria von Bocklet
(a close friend of
Schubert ). The young Brahms gave a few public concerts in
Hamburg, but did not become well known as a pianist until he made a
concert tour at the age of nineteen. (In later life, he frequently took
part in the performance of his own works, whether as soloist,
accompanist, or participant in chamber music.) He conducted choirs from
his early teens, and became a proficient choral and orchestral
conductor.
Meeting Joachim and
Liszt
Brahms in 1853
He began to compose quite early in life, but later destroyed most
copies of his first works; for instance,
Louise Japha ,
a fellow-pupil of Marxsen, reported a piano sonata that Brahms had
played or improvised at the age of 11. His compositions did not receive
public acclaim until he went on a concert tour as accompanist to the
Hungarian violinist
Eduard
Reményi
in April and May 1853. On this tour he met
Joseph Joachim
at
Hanover ,
and went on to the Court of
Weimar
where he met
Franz Liszt ,
Peter Cornelius , and
Joachim
Raff . According to several witnesses of Brahms’s meeting with Liszt
(at which Liszt performed Brahms’s
Scherzo ,
Op. 4, at sight), Reményi was offended by Brahms’s failure to praise
Liszt’s
Sonata in B minor
wholeheartedly
(Brahms supposedly fell asleep during a performance of the recently
composed work), and they parted company shortly afterwards. Brahms later
excused himself, saying that he could not help it, having been
exhausted by his travels.
Brahms and Schumann
Joachim had given Brahms a letter of introduction to
Robert Schumann , and after a walking tour in the
Rhineland ,
Brahms took the train to
Düsseldorf ,
and was welcomed into the Schumann family on arrival there. Schumann,
amazed by the 20 year-old’s talent, published an article entitled “ Neue
Bahnen ” (New Paths) in the October 28, 1853 issue of the journal
Neue Zeitschrift für Musik
alerting the public to the young man, who, he claimed, was “destined to
give ideal expression to the times.” This pronouncement was received with some scepticism outside of
Schumann’s immediate circle, and may have increased Brahms’s naturally
self-critical need to perfect his works and technique. While he was in
Düsseldorf, Brahms participated with Schumann and
Albert Dietrich
in writing a sonata for Joachim; this is
known as the “ F-A-E Sonata ” ( German :
Frei aber einsam ).
He became very attached to Schumann’s wife, the composer and pianist
Clara , fourteen years his senior, with whom he would carry
on a lifelong, emotionally passionate, but probably platonic,
relationship. Brahms never married, despite strong feelings for several
women and despite entering into an engagement, soon broken off, with
Agathe von
Siebold
in
Göttingen
in 1859. After Schumann’s attempted
suicide and subsequent confinement in a mental sanatorium near
Bonn
in
February 1854, Brahms was the main intercessor between Clara and her
husband, and found himself virtually head of the household.
Detmold and Hamburg
After Schumann’s death at the sanatorium in 1856, Brahms divided his
time between Hamburg, where he formed and conducted a ladies’ choir, and
the principality of
Detmold , where he was court music-teacher and
conductor. He was the soloist at the premiere of his
Piano Concerto No. 1
in 1859.
He first visited
Vienna
in 1862, staying there over the winter, and,
in 1863, was appointed conductor of the
Vienna
Singakademie . Though he resigned the
position the following year, and entertained the idea of taking up
conducting posts elsewhere, he based himself increasingly in Vienna and
soon made his home there. From 1872 to 1875, he was director of the
concerts of the Vienna
Gesellschaft der Musikfreunde ;
afterwards, he accepted no formal position. He declined an honorary
doctorate of music from
University of Cambridge
in 1877, but
accepted one from the University of
Breslau
in 1879, and composed the
Academic Festival Overture
as
a gesture of appreciation.
He had been composing steadily throughout the 1850s and 60s, but his
music had evoked divided critical responses, and the Piano Concerto No. 1
had been badly received in some of its early performances. His works
were labelled old-fashioned by the ‘New German School’ whose principal
figures included Liszt and
Richard Wagner . Brahms admired some of Wagner’s music and
admired Liszt as a great pianist, but the conflict between the two
schools, known as the
War of the Romantics , soon embroiled all of musical
Europe. In the Brahms camp were his close friends: Clara Schumann, the
influential music critic
Eduard Hanslick , and the leading Viennese surgeon
Theodor Billroth . In 1860, Brahms attempted to organize a
public protest against some of the wilder excesses of the Wagnerians’
music. This took the form of a manifesto, written by Brahms and Joachim
jointly. The manifesto, which was published prematurely with only three
supporting signatures, was a failure, and he never engaged in public
polemics again.
Years of popularity
It was the premiere of
A German Requiem , his largest
choral work, in
Bremen , in 1868, that confirmed Brahms’s European
reputation and led many to accept that he had conquered Beethoven and
the symphony. This may have given him the confidence finally to complete
a number of works that he had wrestled with over many years, such as
the cantata
Rinaldo , his first string quartet,
third piano quartet, and most notably his first symphony. This appeared
in 1876, though it had been begun (and a version of the first movement
seen by some of his friends) in the early 1860s. The other three
symphonies then followed in 1877, 1883, and 1885. From 1881, he was able
to try out his new orchestral works with the court orchestra of the
Duke of
Meiningen , whose conductor was
Hans von Bülow . He was the soloist at the premiere of his
Piano Concerto No. 2
in 1881.
Brahms frequently travelled, both for business (concert tours) and
pleasure. From 1878 onwards, he often visited
Italy
in the
springtime, and he usually sought out a pleasant rural location in
which to compose during the summer. He was a great walker and especially
enjoyed spending time in the open air, where he felt that he could
think more clearly.
In 1889, one Theo Wangemann, a representative of American inventor
Thomas
Edison , visited the composer in Vienna and invited him to make an
experimental recording. Brahms played an abbreviated version of his
first Hungarian dance on the piano. The recording was later issued on an
LP of early piano performances (compiled by
Gregor
Benko ). Although the spoken introduction to the short piece of
music is quite clear, the piano playing is largely inaudible due to
heavy surface noise. Nevertheless, this remains the earliest recording
made by a major composer. Analysts and scholars remain divided, however,
as to whether the voice that introduces the piece is that of Wangemann
or of Brahms.
In 1889, Brahms was named an
honorary citizen of
Hamburg , until 1948 the only one born in Hamburg.
Later years
Brahms’s grave in the
Zentralfriedhof
(Central Cemetery), Vienna.
In 1890, the 57 year-old Brahms resolved to give up composing.
However, as it turned out, he was unable to abide by his decision, and
in the years before his death he produced a number of acknowledged
masterpieces. His admiration for
Richard Mühlfeld , clarinetist with the Meiningen
orchestra, moved him to compose the
Clarinet
Trio , Op. 114,
Clarinet Quintet , Op. 115 (1891),
and the two
Clarinet Sonatas , Op. 120 (1894).
He also wrote several cycles of piano pieces, Opp. 116–119, the
Four
Serious Songs
( Vier ernste Gesänge ), Op. 121 (1896), and
the
Eleven Chorale Preludes
for organ,
Op. 122 (1896).
While completing the Op. 121 songs, Brahms developed cancer (sources
differ on whether this was of the
liver
or
pancreas ). His condition gradually worsened and he died on
April 3, 1897. Brahms is buried in the
Zentralfriedhof
in Vienna.
Works
See also:
List of compositions by
Johannes Brahms
Brahms wrote a number of major works for orchestra, including two
serenades ,
four
symphonies ,
two
piano concertos
( No. 1 in D minor ;
No. 2 in B flat major ), a
Violin Concerto , a
Double Concerto
for violin and
cello, and two orchestral overtures, the
Academic Festival Overture
and
the
Tragic Overture .
His large choral work
A German Requiem
is not a
setting of the liturgical
Missa pro defunctis
but a setting of
texts which Brahms selected from the
Lutheran
Bible . The work was composed in three major periods of his life. An
early version of the second movement was first composed in 1854, not
long after
Robert Schumann ‘s attempted suicide, and
this was later used in his first piano concerto. The majority of the
Requiem was composed after his mother’s death in 1865. The fifth
movement was added after the official premiere in 1868, and the work was
published in 1869.
Brahms’s works in
variation
form include the
Variations and Fugue
on a Theme by Handel
and the
Paganini Variations , both
for solo piano, and the
Variations on a Theme by Haydn
in versions for two pianos and for orchestra. The final movement of the
Fourth Symphony , Op. 98, is formally
a
passacaglia .
His
chamber
works include three string quartets,
two string quintets, two string sextets, a clarinet quintet, a clarinet
trio, a horn trio, a piano quintet, three piano quartets, and four piano
trios (the fourth being published posthumously). He composed several
instrumental sonatas with piano, including three for violin, two for
cello, and two for clarinet (which were subsequently arranged for
viola
by the
composer). His solo piano works range from his early
piano
sonatas
and
ballades
to his late sets of character pieces. Brahms was a
significant
Lieder
composer, who wrote over 200 songs. His
chorale preludes
for
organ , Op. 122, which he wrote shortly before his death,
have become an important part of the organist’s repertoire.
Brahms strongly preferred writing
absolute music
that does not refer to an explicit scene or
narrative, and he never wrote an
opera
or a
symphonic poem .
Despite his reputation as a serious composer of large, complex
musical structures, some of Brahms’s most widely known and most
commercially successful compositions during his life were small-scale
works of popular intent aimed at the thriving contemporary market for
domestic music-making; indeed, during the 20th century, the influential
American critic
B. H. Haggin , rejecting more mainstream views,
argued in his various guides to recorded music that Brahms was at his
best in such works and much less successful in larger forms. Among the
most cherished of these lighter works by Brahms are his sets of popular
dances—the
Hungarian Dances , the
Waltzes ,
Op. 39, for piano duet, and the
Liebeslieder Waltzes
for vocal
quartet and piano—and some of his many songs, notably the
Wiegenlied ,
Op. 49, No. 4 (published in 1868). This last was written (to a folk
text) to celebrate the birth of a son to Brahms’s friend Bertha Faber
and is universally known as
Brahms’s Lullaby .
Style and influences
Brahms maintained a Classical sense of form and order in his works –
in contrast to the opulence of the music of many of his contemporaries.
Thus many admirers (though not necessarily Brahms himself) saw him as
the champion of traditional forms and “pure music”, as opposed to the
“New German” embrace of programme music.
Brahms venerated
Beethoven : in the composer’s home, a marble bust of
Beethoven looked down on the spot where he composed, and some passages
in his works are reminiscent of Beethoven’s style. Brahms’s
First Symphony
bears strongly a
homage (or influence) from Beethoven’s
Fifth Symphony
as the two works
are both in a formidable C Minor, and end in the struggle towards a C
Major triumph. The main theme of the finale the
First Symphony
is also reminiscent
of the main theme of the finale of Beethoven’s
Ninth , and when this resemblance
was pointed out to Brahms, he replied that any ass –
jeder Esel
–
could see that. In 1876, when the work was premiered in Vienna, it was
immediately hailed as “Beethoven’s Tenth”.
A German Requiem
was partially
inspired by his mother’s death in 1865 (at which time he composed a
funeral march that was to become the basis of Part Two,
Denn alles
Fleisch ), but it also incorporates material from a Symphony which he
started in 1854 but abandoned following Schumann’s suicide attempt. He
once wrote that the Requiem “belonged to Schumann”. The first movement
of this abandoned Symphony was re-worked as the first movement of the
First Piano Concerto .
Brahms also loved the Classical composers
Mozart
and
Haydn .
He collected first editions and autographs of their works, and edited
performing editions. He also studied the music of pre-classical
composers, including
Giovanni Gabrieli ,
Johann Adolph Hasse ,
Heinrich Schütz , and, especially,
Johann Sebastian Bach . His friends included leading
musicologists, and, with
Friedrich Chrysander , he edited an
edition of the works of
François Couperin . He looked to older
music for inspiration in the arts of strict
counterpoint ;
the themes of some of his works are modelled on
Baroque
sources such as Bach’s
The Art of Fugue
in the fugal finale of Cello Sonata No. 1 or
the same composer’s Cantata No. 150 in the passacaglia theme of the
Fourth Symphony’s
finale .
The early Romantic composers also had a major influence on Brahms,
particularly Schumann, who encouraged Brahms as a young composer. Brahms
often met Robert and
Clara Schumann . During his stay in
Vienna
in
1862–63, Brahms became particularly interested in the music of
Franz Schubert . The latter’s influence may be identified in works by Brahms dating from
the period, such as the two piano quartets Op. 25 and Op. 26, and the
Piano Quintet
which alludes to
Schubert’s
String Quintet
and
Grand Duo
for piano four hands.
There is less evidence for influence of
Chopin
and
Mendelssohn
on Brahms, although occasionally one can
find in his works what seems
to be an allusion to one of their works
(for example, Brahms’s Scher.zo, Op. 4, alludes to Chopin’s Scherzo in
B-flat minor; the scherzo movement in Brahms’s
Piano Sonata in F minor, Op. 5 ,
alludes to the finale of Mendelssohn’s Piano Trio in C minor).
Brahms considered giving up composition when it seemed that other
composers’ innovations in extended
tonality
would result in the rule of tonality being broken altogether. Although
Wagner
became fiercely critical of Brahms as the latter grew
in stature and popularity, he was enthusiastically receptive of the
early
Variations and Fugue
on a Theme by Handel ; Brahms himself, according to many sources
(Swafford, 1999), deeply admired Wagner’s music, confining his
ambivalence only to the dramaturgical precepts of Wagner’s theory.
Brahms wrote settings for piano and voice of 144 German
folk
songs, and many of his lieder reflect folk themes or depict scenes of
rural life. His
Hungarian dances
were among
his most profitable compositions.
Brahms and religion
Although Brahms’s religious views are not perfectly clear, it is
certain one of his musical influences was the
Bible . He
was reared to appreciate Luther’s translation. His “Requiem” employs
biblical texts to convey a humanist message, omitting words about
salvation or immortality, and focuses on the living rather than the
dead. On the one hand, author Walter Niemann declared, “The fact that
Brahms began his creative activity with the German folk song and closed
with the Bible reveals…the true religious creed of this great man of
the people.” However, others see Brahms as more of a cultural Lutheran
who embraced the cultural aspects of his upbringing but may or may not
have adopted the religious beliefs.
When asked by conductor Karl Reinthaler to add additional sectarian
text to his “requiem”, Brahms responded, “As far as the text is
concerned, I confess that I would gladly omit even the word German and
instead use Human; also with my best knowledge and will I would dispense
with passages like John 3:16. On the other hand, I have chosen one
thing or another because I am a musician, because I needed it, and
because with my venerable authors I can’t delete or dispute anything.
But I had better stop before I say too much.”
There is reason to believe that Brahms was a religious freethinker.
Being a star of his age, he would frequently say deceptive things to the
public. This means that the most reliable accounts on Brahms’s
innermost feelings may come from the people in the close circle around
him. Among these, you have the pious
Antonín Dvořák , the closest Brahms ever would
come to having a protégé. In a letter, Dvorak disclosed his concerns
regarding Brahms’s religious views: “Such a man, such a fine soul—and he
believes in nothing! He believes in nothing!”
Unfortunately, the subject of Brahms and religiosity has been subject
to considerable revisionism and even attempts of fraud. Of these, the
most famous one is from the book “Talks With Great Composers” by
Arthur Abell .
This book contains a supposed interview with Brahms and
Joseph Joachim , and it is notable for the fact that
everything in it is held together by biblical references. The book was
first released in the 1950s, after all the composers involved were dead.
The book has been disregarded as fraudulent by biographer Jan Swafford
and by most other serious biographers in recent years, but it still
colours a lot of older resources on Brahms. For example, the quote “I
know several young composers who are atheists. I have read their scores,
and I assure you, Joseph, that they are doomed to speedy oblivion,
because they are utterly lacking in inspiration. Their works are purely
cerebral … no atheist has ever been or ever will be a great composer” is
still widely quoted, yet it is most likely that it is the invention of
Abell.
Influence
Brahms’s point of view looked both backward and forward; his output
was often bold in its exploration of harmony and rhythm. As a result, he
was an influence on composers of both conservative and modernist
tendencies. Within his lifetime, his idiom left an imprint on several
composers within his personal circle, who were strong admirers of his
music, such as
Heinrich von Herzogenberg ,
Robert
Fuchs , and
Julius Röntgen , as well as on
Gustav
Jenner , who was Brahms’s only formal composition pupil.
Antonín Dvořák , who received substantial
assistance from Brahms, deeply admired his music and was influenced by
it in several works such as the
Symphony No 7 in D minor
and the F
minor Piano Trio. Features of the ‘Brahms style’ were absorbed in a more
complex synthesis with other contemporary (chiefly Wagnerian) trends by
Hans
Rott ,
Wilhelm Berger
and
Max
Reger , whereas the British composers,
Hubert
Parry
and
Edward Elgar , and the Swede,
Wilhelm Stenhammar , all testified to learning much from
Brahms’s example. It was Elgar who said, “I look at the Third Symphony
of Brahms, and I feel like a pygmy.”
Ferruccio Busoni ‘s early music shows much
Brahmsian influence, and Brahms took an interest in him, though Busoni
later tended to disparage Brahms. Towards the end of his life, Brahms
offered substantial encouragement to
Ernő Dohnányi
and also to
Alexander von Zemlinsky . Their early
chamber works (and those of
Béla Bartók , who was friendly with Dohnányi,) show a
thoroughgoing absorption of the Brahmsian idiom. Zemlinsky, moreover,
was in turn the teacher of
Arnold Schoenberg , and Brahms was apparently impressed
by two movements of Schoenberg’s early
Quartet in D major
which
Zemlinsky showed him. In 1933, Schoenberg wrote an essay “Brahms the
Progressive” (re-written 1947), which drew attention to Brahms’s
fondness for motivic saturation and irregularities of rhythm and phrase;
in his last book ( Structural Functions of Harmony , 1948), he
analysed Brahms’s “enriched harmony” and exploration of remote tonal
regions. These efforts paved the way for a re-evaluation of Brahms’s
reputation in the 20th century. Schoenberg went so far as to orchestrate
one of Brahms’s piano quartets. Schoenberg’s pupil
Anton
Webern , in his 1933 lectures, posthumously published under the
title
The Path to the New Music , claimed Brahms as one who had
anticipated the developments of the
Second Viennese School , and Webern’s own Op. 1, an
orchestral
passacaglia , is clearly in part a homage to, and
development of, the variation techniques of the passacaglia-finale of
Brahms’s Fourth Symphony.
Brahms was honoured by the German Hall of Fame, the
Walhalla temple . On 14 September 2000, he was introduced
there as 126th “ rühmlich ausgezeichneter Teutscher ” and 13th
composer among them, with a bust by sculptor
Milan Knobloch .
Personality
Like Beethoven, Brahms was fond of nature and often went walking in
the woods around Vienna. He often brought penny candy with him to hand
out to children. To adults, Brahms was often brusque and sarcastic, and
he sometimes alienated other people. His pupil
Gustav
Jenner
wrote, “Brahms has acquired, not without reason, the
reputation for being a grump, even though few could also be as lovable
as he.
” He also had predictable habits, which were noted by the Viennese
press, such as his daily visit to his favourite “Red Hedgehog” tavern in
Vienna ,
and the press also particularly took into account his style of walking
with his hands firmly behind his back complete with a caricature of him
in this pose walking alongside a red hedgehog. Those who remained his
friends were very loyal to him, however, and he reciprocated with equal
loyalty and generosity.
Johann Strauss II
(left) and Johannes Brahms (right)
photographed in Vienna
Brahms was a lifelong friend of
Johann Strauss II , though they were very different as
composers. Brahms even struggled to get to the
Theater an der Wien
in
Vienna
for
the premiere of Strauss’s operetta
Die
Göttin der Vernunft
in 1897 before his death. Perhaps the
greatest tribute that Brahms could pay to Strauss was his remark that he
would have given anything to have written
The Blue Danube
waltz . An
anecdote dating around the time Brahms became acquainted with Strauss is
that when Strauss’s wife Adele asked Brahms to autograph her fan, he
wrote a few notes from the “Blue Danube” waltz, and then cheekily
inscribed the words “Alas, not by Brahms!”
Starting in the 1860s, when his works sold widely, Brahms was
financially quite successful. He preferred a modest life style, however,
living in a simple three-room apartment with a housekeeper. He gave
away much of his money to relatives, and anonymously helped support a
number of young musicians.
Brahms was an extreme perfectionist. He destroyed many early works —
including a Violin Sonata he had performed with Reményi and violinist
Ferdinand David
— and once
claimed to have destroyed 20 string quartets before he issued his
official First in 1873. Over the course of several years, he changed an
original project for a symphony in D minor into his
first piano concerto . In
another instance of devotion to detail, he laboured over the official
First Symphony for almost fifteen years, from about 1861 to 1876. Even
after its first few performances, Brahms destroyed the original slow
movement and substituted another before the score was published. (A
conjectural restoration of the original slow movement has been published
by Robert Pascall.) Another factor that contributed to Brahms’s
perfectionism was that
Schumann
had announced early on that Brahms was to become
the next great composer like Beethoven, a prediction that Brahms was
determined to live up to. This prediction hardly added to the composer’s
self-confidence, and may have contributed to the delay in producing the
First Symphony. However,
Clara Schumann
noted before that Brahms’s First Symphony
was a product that was not reflective of Brahms’s real nature. She felt
that the final exuberant movement was “too brilliant”, as she was
encouraged by the dark and tempestuous opening movement she had seen in
an early draft. However, she recanted in accepting the Second Symphony,
which has often been seen in modern times as one of his sunniest works.
Other contemporaries, however, found the first movement especially dark,
and
Reinhold Brinkmann , in a study of
Symphony No. 2 in relation to 19th century ideas of
melancholy ,
has published a revealing letter from Brahms to the composer and
conductor
Vinzenz Lachner
in which Brahms confesses to
the melancholic side of his nature and comments on specific features of
the movement that reflect this.
Comment
Ludwig van Beethoven
Filed under:
Uncategorized
—
Leave a comment
April 15, 2010
Ludwig van Beethoven
(pronounced
/ˈluːdˌvɪɡ vɑːn ˈbeɪˌtoʊvən/
(U.S.) or
/ˈlʊdˌvɪɡ væn ˈbeɪtˌhoʊvən/
(UK); German:
[ˈluːt.vɪç fan ˈbeːt.hoːfən] ;
baptised
17 December 1770 – 26 March 1827) was a
German composer
and
pianist .
He was a crucial figure in the transitional period between the
Classical
and
Romantic
eras in
Western classical music , and remains one of the most
acclaimed and influential composers of all time.
Born in
Bonn ,
of the
Electorate of Cologne
and a part of
the
Holy
Roman Empire of the German Nation
in present-day Germany, he moved
to
Vienna
in his early twenties and settled there, studying with
Joseph
Haydn
and quickly gaining a reputation as a
virtuoso
pianist. His hearing began to
deteriorate
in the late 1790s, yet he continued to
compose,
conduct , and perform, even after becoming
completely deaf .
A portrait by
Joseph Karl Stieler , 1820
Biography
Prince-Elector’s Palace ( Kurfürstliches Schloss ) in Bonn, where
the Beethoven family had been active since the 1730s
Background
and early life
Beethoven was the grandson of a musician of
Flemish
origin named Lodewijk van Beethoven (1712–1773). Beethoven was named after his grandfather, as Lodewijk is the
Dutch
counterpart of
Ludwig . Beethoven’s
grandfather was employed as a bass singer at the court of the
Elector of Cologne , rising to become
Kapellmeister
(music director). He had one son,
Johann van Beethoven
(1740–1792), who worked as a
tenor in the same musical establishment, also giving lessons on piano
and violin to supplement his income.
Johann married Maria Magdalena Keverich in 1767; she was the daughter
of Johann Heinrich Keverich, who had been the head chef at the court of
the
Archbishopric of Trier .
House of birth,
Bonn ,
Bonngasse 20, now the
Beethoven-Haus
museum
Beethoven was born of this marriage in
Bonn ; he was
baptized in a
Roman Catholic
service on
17 December 1770, and was probably born the previous day, 16 December. Children of that era were usually baptized the day after birth; and it
is known that Beethoven’s family and his teacher
Johann Albrechtsberger
celebrated his birthday on 16 December. While this evidence supports the
case for 16 December 1770 as Beethoven’s date of birth, it cannot be
stated with certainty, as there is no documentary evidence of it (only
his baptismal record survives). Of the seven children born to Johann van Beethoven, only the
second-born, Ludwig, and two younger brothers survived infancy. Caspar
Anton Carl was born on 8 April 1774, and Nikolaus Johann, the youngest,
was born on 2 October 1776.
Beethoven’s first music teacher was his father. A traditional belief
concerning Johann is that he was a harsh instructor, and that the child
Beethoven, “made to stand at the keyboard, was often in tears”.
However, the
New Grove
indicates that there is no solid documentation to support it, and
asserts that “speculation and myth-making have both been productive.” Beethoven had other local teachers as well: the court organist Gilles
van den Eeden (d. 1782), Tobias Friedrich Pfeiffer (a family friend, who
taught Beethoven piano), and a relative, Franz Rovantini (violin and
viola). His musical talent manifested itself early. Johann, aware of
Leopold Mozart ‘s successes in this area, attempted to
exploit his son as a
child
prodigy , claiming that Beethoven was six (he was seven) on the
posters for Beethoven’s first public performance in March 1778.
Some time after 1779, Beethoven began his studies with his most
important teacher in Bonn,
Christian Gottlob Neefe , who was
appointed the Court’s Organist in that year. Neefe taught Beethoven composition, and by March 1783 had helped him
write his first published composition: a set of keyboard variations ( WoO
63). Beethoven soon began working with Neefe as assistant organist, first on
an unpaid basis (1781), and then as paid employee (1784) of the court
chapel conducted by the Kapellmeister
Andrea Luchesi . His
first three piano
sonatas , named “ Kurfürst ” (“Elector”) for
their dedication to the Elector
Maximilian
Frederick , were published in 1783. Maximilian Frederick, who died in
1784, not long after Beethoven’s appointment as assistant organist, had
noticed Beethoven’s talent early, and had subsidized and encouraged the
young Beethoven’s musical studies.
Maximilian Frederick’s successor as the Elector of Bonn was
Maximilian
Franz , the youngest son of Empress
Maria Theresa of Austria , and he
brought notable changes to Bonn. Echoing changes made in
Vienna
by
his brother
Joseph , he
introduced reforms based on
Enlightenment philosophy , with increased support for
education and the arts. The teenage Beethoven was almost certainly
influenced by these changes. He may also have been strongly influenced
at this time by ideas prominent in
freemasonry ,
as Neefe and others around Beethoven were members of the local chapter
of the
Order of the Illuminati .
In March 1787 Beethoven traveled to Vienna (it is unknown at whose
expense) for the first time, apparently in the hope of studying with
Mozart . The details of
their relationship
are uncertain, including whether
or not they actually met. After just two weeks there Beethoven learned that his mother was
severely ill, and he was forced to return home. His mother died shortly
thereafter, and the father lapsed deeper into alcoholism. As a result,
Beethoven became responsible for the care of his two younger brothers,
and he spent the next five years in Bonn.
Beethoven was introduced to a number of people who became important
in his life in these years. Franz Wegeler, a young medical student,
introduced him to the von Breuning family (one of whose daughters
Wegeler eventually married). Beethoven was often at the von Breuning
household, where he was exposed to German and classical literature, and
where he also gave piano instruction to some of the children. The von
Breuning family environment was also less stressful than his own, which
was increasingly dominated by his father’s strict control and descent
into alcoholism. It is also in these years that Beethoven came to the attention of
Count Ferdinand von
Waldstein , who became a lifelong friend and financial supporter.
A portrait of the thirteen-year-old Beethoven by an unknown Bonn master
(c. 1783)
In 1789, he obtained a legal order by which half of his father’s
salary was paid directly to him for support of the family. He also contributed further to the family’s income by playing
viola
in the
court orchestra. This familiarized Beethoven with a variety of operas,
including three of
Mozart ‘s operas performed at court
in this period. He also befriended
Anton
Reicha , a
flautist
and violinist of about his own age who was
the conductor’s nephew.
Establishing
his career in Vienna
With the Elector’s help, Beethoven moved to
Vienna
in
1792. He was probably first introduced to
Joseph
Haydn
in late 1790, when the latter was traveling to London and
stopped in Bonn around Christmas time. They definitely met in Bonn on Haydn’s return trip from London to
Vienna in July 1792, and it is likely that arrangements were made at
that time for Beethoven to study with the old master. In the intervening years, Beethoven composed a significant number of
works (none were published at the time, and most are now listed as
works without opus )
that demonstrated a growing range and maturity of style. Musicologists
have identified a theme similar to those of his
third symphony
in a set of
variations written in 1791. Beethoven left Bonn for Vienna in November 1792, amid rumors of
war spilling out of France , and learned shortly after his
arrival that his father had died. Count Waldstein in his farewell note to Beethoven wrote: “Through
uninterrupted diligence you will receive Mozart’s spirit through Haydn’s
hands.” Beethoven responded to the widespread feeling that he was a successor
to the recently deceased Mozart over the next few years by studying that
master’s work and writing works with a distinctly Mozartean flavor.
Beethoven did not immediately set out to establish himself as a
composer, but rather devoted himself to study and to playing the piano.
Working under Haydn’s direction, he sought to master
counterpoint . He also took violin lessons from
Ignaz Schuppanzigh . Early in this period, he also began receiving occasional instruction
from
Antonio Salieri , primarily in Italian vocal
composition style; this relationship persisted until at least 1802, and
possibly 1809. With Haydn’s departure for England in 1794, Beethoven was expected by
the Elector to return home. He chose instead to remain in Vienna,
continuing his instruction in counterpoint with
Johann Albrechtsberger
and
other teachers. Although his stipend from the Elector expired, a number
of Viennese noblemen had already recognized his ability and offered him
financial support, among them
Prince Joseph Franz Lobkowitz ,
Prince Karl Lichnowsky , and Baron
Gottfried van Swieten .
Portrait of Beethoven as a young man by
Carl
Traugott Riedel
(1769–1832)
By 1793, Beethoven established a reputation in Vienna as a piano
virtuoso and improviser in the salons of the nobility, often playing the
preludes and fugues of
J. S. Bach ‘s
Well-Tempered Clavier . His friend
Nikolaus
Simrock
had also begun publishing his compositions; the first are
believed to be a set of variations (WoO 66). Beethoven spent much of 1794 composing, and apparently withheld works
from publication so that their publication in 1795 would have greater
impact. Beethoven’s first public performance in Vienna was in March 1795, a
concert in which he debuted a
piano concerto . It is uncertain whether this was the
First
or
Second , as documentary
evidence is unclear, and both concertos were in a similar state of
near-completion (neither was completed or published for several years). Shortly after this performance, he arranged for the publication of the
first of his compositions to which he assigned an
opus
number , the
piano
trios of Opus 1 . These works were dedicated to his patron Prince
Lichnowsky, and were a financial success; Beethoven’s profits were nearly
sufficient to cover his living expenses for a year.
Wider publicity
Beethoven in 1803
In 1796, Beethoven embarked on a tour of central European cultural
centers that was an echo of a
similar tour by Mozart
in 1789.
Accompanied by
Prince Lichnowsky
(who also accompanied
Mozart on his tour), Beethoven visited
Prague ,
Dresden ,
Leipzig ,
and Berlin, composing and performing to acclaim. He spent the most time
in Prague, where his reputation had already preceded him through
Lichnowsky’s family connections, and Berlin, where he composed
two cello sonatas (Op. 5)
dedicated to
King Friedrich Wilhelm II , a
lover of music who played that instrument. These works are notable for
successfully combining virtuoso cello and piano parts, a difficult task
considering the differing natures of the two instruments. The king presented Beethoven with a snuffbox full of gold coins;
Beethoven observed that the trip earned him “a good deal of money”. Beethoven returned to Vienna in July 1796, and embarked on another tour
in November, heading east instead of north, to the cities of Pressburg
(present-day
Bratislava ) and
Pest .
At Pressburg he performed on a piano sent from Vienna by his friend
Andreas Streicher , a piano he joked was “far too good for me..because it robs me of the
freedom to produce my own tone”.
Beethoven spent most of 1797 in Vienna, where he continued to compose
(apparently in response to an increasing number of commissions) and
perform, although he was apparently stricken with a serious disease
(possibly
typhus )
in the summer or autumn. It is also around this time (although it may
have been as early as 1795) that he first became aware of issues with
his hearing. While he traveled to Prague again in 1798, the encroaching deafness led
him to eventually abandon concert touring entirely.
Musical maturity
Between 1798 and 1802 Beethoven finally tackled what he considered
the pinnacles of composition: the
string quartet
and the
symphony .
With the composition of his
first six string quartets (Op. 18)
between 1798
and 1800 (written on commission for, and dedicated to, Prince
Lobkowitz), and their publication in 1801, along with premieres of the
First
and
Second
Symphonies in 1800 and
1802, Beethoven was justifiably considered one of the most important of a
generation of young composers following after Haydn and Mozart. He
continued to write in other forms, turning out widely known
piano
sonatas
like the “ Pathétique ” sonata (Op. 13),
which Cooper describes as “surpass[ing] any of his previous
compositions, in strength of character, depth of emotion, level of
originality, and ingenuity of motivic and tonal manipulation”. He also completed his
Septet
(Op. 20) in 1799, which was one of his most
popular works during his lifetime.
For the premiere of his
First Symphony , Beethoven hired the
Burgtheater on 2 April 1800, and staged an extensive program of music,
including works by Haydn and Mozart, as well as the Septet, the First
Symphony, and one of his piano concertos (the latter three works all
then unpublished). The concert, which the
Allgemeine musikalische
Zeitung
described as “the most interesting concert in a long time”,
was not without difficulties; among other criticisms was that “the
players did not bother to pay any attention to the soloist”.
While Mozart and Haydn were undeniable influences (for example,
Beethoven’s
quintet for piano and
winds
is said to bear a strong resemblance to
Mozart’s work for the same
configuration , albeit with his own distinctive touches), other composers like
Muzio Clementi
were also stylistic influences.
Beethoven’s melodies, musical development, use of modulation and
texture, and characterization of emotion all set him apart from his
influences, and heightened the impact some of his early works made when
they were first published. By the end of 1800 Beethoven and his music were already much in demand
from patrons and publishers.
Teaching
Ludwig van Beethoven: detail of an 1804 portrait by
W. J. Mähler
In May of 1799, Beethoven gave piano lessons to the daughters of
Hungarian Countess
Anna Brunsvik .
While this round of lessons lasted less than one month, Beethoven
formed a relationship with the older daughter Josephine that has been
the subject of much speculation ever since. Shortly after these lessons
she married Count Josef Deym, and Beethoven was a regular visitor at
their house, giving lessons and playing at parties. While her marriage
was by all accounts unhappy, the couple had four children, and her
relationship with Beethoven did not intensify until after Deym died in
1804.
Beethoven had few other students. From 1801 to 1805, he tutored
Ferdinand Ries , who went on to become a composer and later
wrote
Beethoven remembered , a book about their encounters. The
young
Carl Czerny
studied with Beethoven from 1801 to 1803. Czerny
went on to become a renowned music teacher himself, taking on
Franz
Liszt
as one of his students, and also gave the Vienna premiere of
Beethoven’s
fifth piano concerto (the
“Emperor”)
in 1812.
Beethoven’s compositions between 1800 and 1802 were dominated by two
works, although he continued to produce smaller works, including the
Moonlight Sonata . In the spring of 1801
he completed
The
Creatures of Prometheus , a
ballet .
The work was such a success that it received numerous performances in
1801 and 1802, and Beethoven rushed to publish a piano arrangement to
capitalize on its early popularity. In the spring of 1802 he completed the
Second Symphony , intended for
performance at a concert that was eventually cancelled. The symphony
received its premiere at a subscription concert in April 1803 at the
Theater an der Wien , where Beethoven had been appointed
as composer in residence. In addition to the Second Symphony, the
concert also featured the First Symphony, the
Third Piano Concerto , and
the
oratorio
Christ on the Mount
of Olives . While reviews were mixed, the concert was a financial
success; Beethoven was able to charge three times the cost of a typical
concert ticket.
Beethoven’s business dealings with publishers also began to improve
in 1802 when his brother Carl, who had previously assisted him more
casually, began to assume a larger role in the management of his
affairs. In addition to negotiating higher prices for recently composed
works, Carl also began selling some of Beethoven’s earlier unpublished
works, and encouraged Beethoven (against the latter’s preference) to
also make arrangements and transcriptions of his more popular works for
other instrument combinations. Beethoven acceded to these requests, as
he could not prevent publishers from hiring others to do similar
arrangements of his works.
Loss of hearing
Around 1796, Beethoven began to lose his hearing. He suffered a severe form of
tinnitus ,
a “ringing” in his ears that made it hard for him to perceive and
appreciate music; he also avoided conversation. The cause of Beethoven’s
deafness is unknown, but it has variously been attributed to
syphilis ,
lead poisoning ,
typhus ,
auto-immune
disorder (such as
systemic lupus erythematosus ), and even his
habit of immersing his head in cold water to stay awake. The
explanation, from the autopsy of the time, is that he had a “distended
inner ear” which developed lesions over time. Because of the high levels
of lead found in samples of Beethoven’s hair, that hypothesis has been
extensively analyzed. While the likelihood of lead poisoning is very
high, the deafness associated with it seldom takes the form that
Beethoven exhibited.
As early as 1801, Beethoven wrote to friends describing his symptoms
and the difficulties they caused in both professional and social
settings (although it is likely some of his close friends were already
aware of the problems). Beethoven, on the advice of his doctor, lived in the small Austrian
town of
Heiligenstadt , just outside Vienna,
from April to October 1802 in an attempt to come to terms with his
condition. There he wrote his
Heiligenstadt Testament , which
records his resolution to continue living for and through his art. Over time, his hearing loss became profound: there is a well-attested
story that, at the end of the premiere of his
Ninth Symphony , he had to be
turned around to see the tumultuous applause of the audience; hearing
nothing, he wept. Beethoven’s hearing loss did not prevent his composing music, but it
made playing at concerts—a lucrative source of income—increasingly
difficult. After a failed attempt in 1811 to perform his own
Piano Concerto No. 5 (the
“Emperor”) , he never performed in public again.
Beethoven in 1815
A large collection of Beethoven’s hearing aids such as special ear
horns can be viewed at the Beethoven House Museum in Bonn, Germany.
Despite his obvious distress, Carl Czerny remarked that Beethoven could
still hear speech and music normally until 1812. By 1814 however, Beethoven was almost totally deaf, and when a group of
visitors saw him play a loud arpeggio of thundering bass notes at his
piano remarking, “Ist es nicht schön?” (Is it not beautiful?), they felt
deep sympathy considering his courage and sense of humor.
As a result of Beethoven’s hearing loss, a unique historical record
has been preserved: his conversation books. Used primarily in the last
ten or so years of his life, his friends wrote in these books so that he
could know what they were saying, and he then responded either orally
or in the book. The books contain discussions about music and other
issues, and give insights into his thinking; they are a source for
investigation into how he felt his music should be performed, and also
his perception of his relationship to art. Unfortunately, 264 out of a
total of 400 conversation books were destroyed (and others were altered)
after Beethoven’s death by
Anton Schindler , in his attempt to paint an idealized
picture of the composer.
Patronage
Beethoven’s patron,
Archduke
Rudolph
While Beethoven earned income from publication of his works and from
public performances, he also depended on the generosity of patrons for
income, for whom he gave private performances and copies of works they
commissioned for an exclusive period prior to their publication. Some of
his early patrons, including Prince Lobkowitz and Prince Lichnowsky,
gave him annual stipends in addition to commissioning works and
purchasing published works.
Perhaps Beethoven’s most important aristocratic patron was
Archduke
Rudolph , the youngest son of
Emperor Leopold II , who in
1803 or 1804 began to study piano and composition with Beethoven. The
cleric ( Cardinal-Priest ) and the
composer became friends, and their meetings continued until 1824.
Beethoven dedicated 14 compositions to Rudolph, including the
Archduke Trio
(1811) and his
great
Missa Solemnis
(1823). Rudolph,
in turn, dedicated one of his own compositions to Beethoven. The letters
Beethoven wrote to Rudolph are today kept at the
Gesellschaft der Musikfreunde
in Vienna.
In the fall of 1808, after having been rejected for a position at the
royal theatre, Beethoven received an offer from
Napoleon ‘s brother
Jérôme Bonaparte , then king of
Westphalia , for a well-paid position as
Kapellmeister
at the court in
Cassel . To persuade him to stay in Vienna, the
Archduke Rudolph, Count Kinsky and Prince Lobkowitz, after receiving
representations from the composer’s friends, pledged to pay Beethoven a
pension of 4000 florins a year. Only Archduke Rudolph paid his share of
the pension on the agreed date. Kinsky, immediately called to duty as an
officer, did not contribute and soon died after falling from his horse.
Lobkowitz stopped paying in September 1811. No successors came forward
to continue the patronage, and Beethoven relied mostly on selling
composition rights and a small pension after 1815. The effects of these
financial arrangements were undermined to some extent by
war with France , which caused significant inflation when the
government printed money to fund its war efforts.
The Middle period
Beethoven in 1814. Portrait by
Louis-René
Létronne .
Beethoven’s return to Vienna from Heiligenstadt was marked by a
change in musical style, now recognized as the start of his “Middle” or
“Heroic” period. According to Carl Czerny, Beethoven said, “I am not
satisfied with the work I have done so far. From now on I intend to take
a new way”. The first major work of this new way was the
Third Symphony
in E flat, known
as the “Eroica”. While other composers had written symphonies with
implied programs, or stories, this work was longer and larger in scope
than any previously written symphony. It made huge demands on the
players, because at that time there were few orchestras devoted to
concert music that were independent of royal or aristocratic patrons,
and hence performance standards at concerts were often haphazard. When it
premiered in early 1805 it received a mixed reception, with some
listeners objecting to its length or failing to understand its
structure, while others viewed it as another masterpiece.
Beethoven composed highly ambitious works throughout the Middle
period, often heroic in tone, that extended the scope of the classical
musical language Beethoven had inherited from Haydn and Mozart. The
Middle period work includes the Third through
Eighth
Symphonies, the string
quartets 7–11, the
“Waldstein”
and
“Appassionata”
piano
sonatas,
Christ on the Mount of Olives , the opera
Fidelio ,
the
Violin Concerto
and many other
compositions. During this time Beethoven earned his living from the sale
and performance of his work, and from the continuing support of wealthy
patrons. His position at the Theater and der Wien was terminated when
the theater changed management in early 1804, and he was forced to move
temporarily to the suburbs of Vienna with his friend Stephan von
Breuning. This slowed work on
Fidelio , his largest work to date,
for a time. It was delayed again by the Austrian
censor ,
and finally premiered in November 1805 to houses that were nearly empty
because of
French occupation of the city . In
addition to being a financial failure, this version of
Fidelio
was also a critical failure, and Beethoven began revising it.
Life mask made in 1812
The work of the Middle period established Beethoven’s reputation as a
great composer. In a review from 1810, he was enshrined by
E. T. A.
Hoffman
as one of the three great “ Romantic ” composers; Hoffman called Beethoven’s
Fifth Symphony
“one of the
most important works of the age”. A particular trauma for Beethoven
occurred during this period in May 1809, when the attacking forces of
Napoleon
bombarded Vienna . According to Ferdinand
Ries, Beethoven, very worried that the noise would destroy what remained
of his hearing, hid in the basement of his brother’s house, covering
his ears with pillows. He was composing the
“Emperor” Concerto
at the
time.
Personal
and family difficulties
Beethoven was introduced to
Giulietta
Guicciardi
in about 1800 through the
Brunsvik
family . His mutual love-relationship with Guicciardi is mentioned in
a November 1801 letter to his boyhood friend, Franz Wegeler. Beethoven
dedicated to Giulietta his
Sonata No. 14 , popularly known as the
“Moonlight” Sonata .
Marriage plans were thwarted by Giulietta’s father and perhaps
Beethoven’s common lineage. In 1803 she married Count Wenzel Robert von
Gallenberg (1783-1839), himself an amateur composer. Though she
revisited Beethoven in 1822 when this unhappy marriage was over, he
rebuffed her and did not resume a relationship.
Beethoven’s relationship with Josephine Deym notably deepened after
the death of her first husband in 1804. There is some evidence that
Beethoven may have proposed to her, at least informally. While the
relationship was apparently reciprocated, she, with some regret, turned
him down, and their relationship effectively ended in 1807. She cited
her “duty”, an apparent reference to the fact that she was born of
nobility and he was a commoner. It is also likely that he considered proposing (whether he actually did
or not is unknown) to
Therese Malfatti , the dedicatee of “ Für
Elise ” in 1810; his common status may also have interfered with
those plans.
In the spring of 1811 Beethoven became seriously ill, suffering
headaches and bad fevers. On the advice of his doctor, he spent six
weeks in the
Bohemian
spa town
of
Teplitz .
The following winter, which was dominated by work on the Seventh
symphony, he was again ill, and decided to spend the summer of 1812 at
Teplitz. It is likely that he was at Teplitz when he wrote three love
letters to an “Immortal Beloved”. While the identity of the intended recipient is an ongoing subject of
debate, the most likely candidate, according to what is known about
people’s movements and the contents of the letters, is
Antonie Brentano , a married woman with
whom he had begun a friendship in 1810. Beethoven traveled to
Karlsbad
in late July, where he stayed in the same guesthouse as the Brentanos.
After traveling with them for a time, he returned to Teplitz, where
after another bout of gastric illness, he left for
Linz
to visit
his brother Johann.
Beethoven’s visit to his brother was made in an attempt to end the
latter’s immoral cohabitation with Therese Obermayer, a woman who
already had an illegitimate child. He was unable to convince Johann to
end the relationship, so he appealed to the local civic and religious
authorities. The end result of Beethoven’s meddling was that Johann and
Therese married on 9 November.
Beethoven in 1818 by
August Klöber
In early 1813 Beethoven apparently went through a difficult emotional
period, and his compositional output dropped for a time. Historians
have suggested a variety of causes, including his lack of success at
romance. His personal appearance, which had generally been neat,
degraded, as did his manners in public, especially when dining. Some of
his (married) desired romantic partners had children (leading to
assertions among historians of Beethoven’s possible paternity), and his
brother Carl was seriously ill. Beethoven took care of his brother and
his family, an expense that he claimed left him penniless. He was unable
to obtain a date for a concert in the spring of 1813, which, if
successful, would have provided him with significant funds.
Beethoven was finally motivated to begin significant composition
again in June 1813, when news arrived of the
defeat of one of Napoleon’s armies
at
Vitoria, Spain
by a coalition of forces under the
Duke of Wellington .
This news stimulated him to write the battle symphony known as
Wellington’s Victory . It was
premiered on 8 December at a charity concert for victims of the war
along with his Seventh Symphony. The work was a popular hit, likely
because of its programmatic style which was entertaining and easy to
understand. It received repeat performances at concerts Beethoven staged
in January and February 1814. Beethoven’s renewed popularity led to
demands for a revival of
Fidelio , which, in its third revised
version, was also well-received when it opened in July. That summer he
also composed a piano sonata for the first time in five years ( No. 27, Opus 90 ). This
work was in a markedly more
Romantic
style than his earlier sonatas. He was also one of many composers who
produced music in a patriotic vein to entertain the many heads of state
and diplomats that came to the
Congress of Vienna
that began in November 1814. His
output of songs included his only
song
cycle , “ An die ferne Geliebte “, and the
extraordinarily expressive, but almost incoherent, “ An die
Hoffnung ” (Opus 94).
Custody
struggle and illness
Between 1815 and 1817 Beethoven’s output dropped again. Part of this
Beethoven attributed to a lengthy illness (he called it an “inflammatory
fever”) that afflicted him for more than a year, starting in October
1816. Biographers have speculated on a variety of other reasons that also
contributed to the decline in creative output, including the
difficulties in the personal lives of his would-be paramours and the
harsh censorship policies of the Austrian government. The illness and
death of his brother Carl from
consumption
likely also played a role.
Carl had been ill for some time, and Beethoven spent a small fortune
in 1815 on his care. When he finally died on 15 November 1815, Beethoven
immediately became embroiled in a protracted legal dispute with Carl’s
wife Johanna over custody of their son Karl, then nine years old.
Beethoven, who considered Johanna an unfit parent because of her morals
(she had an illegitimate child by a different father before marrying
Carl, and had been convicted of theft) and financial management, had
successfully applied to Carl to have himself named sole guardian of the
boy; but a late
codicil
to Carl’s will gave him and Johanna joint
guardianship. While Beethoven was successful at having his nephew
removed from her custody in February 1816, the case was not fully
resolved until 1820, and he was frequently preoccupied by the demands of
the litigation and seeing to the welfare of the boy, whom he first
placed in a private school. The custody fight brought out the very worst
aspects of Beethoven’s character; in the lengthy court cases Beethoven
stopped at nothing to ensure that he achieved this goal, and even
stopped composing for long periods.
The Austrian court system had one court for the
nobility ,
The R&I Landrechte, and another for commoners, The Civil Court of
the Magistrate. Beethoven disguised the fact that the Dutch “van” in his
name did not denote nobility as does the German “von”, and his case was tried in the Landrechte. Owing to his influence with
the court, Beethoven felt assured of a favorable outcome. Beethoven was
awarded sole guardianship. While giving evidence to the Landrechte,
however, Beethoven inadvertently admitted that he was not nobly born. The case was transferred to the
Magistracy on 18 December 1818, where he lost sole guardianship.
Beethoven appealed, and regained custody of Karl. Johanna’s appeal
for justice to the Emperor was not successful: the Emperor “washed his
hands of the matter”. Beethoven stopped at nothing to blacken her name,
as can be read in surviving court papers. During the years of custody
that followed, Beethoven attempted to ensure that Karl lived to the
highest of moral standards. His overbearing manner and frequent
interference in his nephew’s life, especially as he grew into a young
man, apparently drove Karl to attempt suicide on 31 July 1826 by
shooting himself in the head. He survived, and was brought to his
mother’s house, where he recuperated. He and Beethoven reconciled, but
Karl was insistent on joining the army, and last saw Beethoven in early
1827.
The only major works Beethoven produced during this time were
two cello sonatas , a piano sonata, and
collections of folk song settings. He began sketches for the Ninth
Symphony in 1817.
Late works
Beethoven in 1823; copy of a destroyed portrait by
Ferdinand Georg Waldmüller
Beethoven began a renewed study of older music, including works by
J. S. Bach
and
Handel , that were then being published in the
first attempts at complete editions. He composed the
Consecration of the House
Overture , which was the first work to attempt to incorporate his
new influences. But it is when he returned to the keyboard to compose
his first new piano sonatas in almost a decade, that a new style, now
called his “late period”, emerged. The works of the late period are
commonly held to include the last five piano sonatas and the
Diabelli Variations , the last two sonatas for cello
and piano, the late quartets (see below), and two works for very large
forces: the
Missa Solemnis
and the
Ninth Symphony .
By early 1818 Beethoven’s health had improved, and his nephew had
moved in with him in January. On the downside, his hearing had
deteriorated to the point that conversation became difficult,
necessitating the use of conversation books. His household management
had also improved somewhat; Nanette Streicher, who had assisted in his
care during his illness, continued to provide some support, and he
finally found a decent cook. His musical output in 1818 was still somewhat reduced, with song
collections and the
Hammerklavier Sonata
his only notable compositions, although he continued to work on
sketches for two symphonies (that eventually coalesced into the enormous
Ninth Symphony). In 1819 he was again preoccupied by the legal
processes around Karl, and began work on the
Diabelli Variations
and the
Missa Solemnis .
For the next few years he continued to work on the Missa, composing
piano sonatas and bagatelles to satisfy the demands of publishers and
the need for income, and completing the Diabelli Variations. He was ill
again for an extended time in 1821, and completed the Missa in 1823,
three years after its original due date. He also opened discussions with
his publishers over the possibility of producing a complete edition of
his works, an idea that was arguably not fully realized until 1971.
Beethoven’s brother Johann began to take a hand in his business affairs
around this time, much in the way Carl had earlier, locating older
unpublished works to offer for publication and offering the Missa to
multiple publishers with the goal of getting a higher price for it.
Two commissions in 1822 improved Beethoven’s financial prospects. The
Philharmonic Society
of London offered a commission for a symphony, and Prince Nikolay
Golitsin of
St. Petersburg
offered to pay Beethoven’s
price for three string quartets. The first of these spurred Beethoven to
finish the Ninth Symphony, which was premiered, along with the Missa
Solemnis, on 7 May 1824, to great acclaim at the
Kärntnertortheater .
The
Allgemeine musikalische Zeitung
gushed “inexhaustible genius
had shown us a new world”, and Carl Czerny wrote that his symphony
“breathes such a fresh, lively, indeed youthful spirit […] so much
power, innovation, and beauty as ever [came] from the head of this
original man, although he certainly sometimes led the old wigs to shake
their heads.” Unlike his earlier concerts, Beethoven made little money on this one,
as the expenses of mounting it were significantly higher. A second concert on 24 May, in which the producer guaranteed Beethoven a
minimum fee, was poorly attended; nephew Karl noted that “many people
have already gone into the country”. It was Beethoven’s last public concert.
Beethoven then turned to writing the string quartets for Golitsin.
This
series of quartets , known
as the “Late Quartets”, went far beyond what either musicians or
audiences were ready for at that time. One musician commented that “we
know there is something there, but we do not know what it is.” Composer
Louis
Spohr
called them “indecipherable, uncorrected horrors”, though
that opinion has changed considerably from the time of their first
bewildered reception. They continued (and continue) to inspire musicians
and composers, from
Richard Wagner
to
Béla Bartók , for their unique forms and ideas. Of the late
quartets, Beethoven’s favorite was the
Fourteenth Quartet, op. 131
in C# minor, upon hearing which
Schubert
is said to have remarked, “After this, what is
left for us to write?”
Beethoven wrote the last quartets amidst failing health. In April
1825 he was bedridden, and remained ill for about a month. The
illness—or more precisely, his recovery from it—is remembered for having
given rise to the deeply felt slow movement of the
Fifteenth Quartet , which
Beethoven called “Holy song of thanks (‘Heiliger dankgesang’) to the
divinity, from one made well”. He went on to complete the (misnumbered)
Thirteenth ,
Fourteenth , and
Sixteenth
Quartets. The
last work completed by Beethoven was the substitute final movement of
the Thirteenth Quartet, deemed necessary to replace the difficult
Große
Fuge . Shortly thereafter, in December 1826, illness struck again,
with episodes of vomiting and diarrhea that nearly ended his life.
Illness and death
Beethoven’s grave site,
Vienna
Zentralfriedhof
Main article:
Death of Beethoven
Beethoven was bedridden for most of his remaining months, and many
friends came to visit. He died on 26 March 1827, during a thunderstorm.
His friend Anselm Hüttenbrenner, who was present at the time, claimed
that there was a peal of thunder at the moment of death. An
autopsy
revealed significant liver damage, which may have been due to heavy
alcohol consumption.
Unlike
Mozart , who was buried anonymously
in a communal grave (such being the custom at the time), 20,000 Viennese
citizens lined the streets for Beethoven’s funeral on 29 March 1827.
Franz Schubert , who died the following year and was buried
next to Beethoven, was one of the torchbearers. After a Requiem Mass at
the church of the Holy Trinity (Dreifaltigkeitskirche), Beethoven was
buried in the
Währing
cemetery, north-west of Vienna. His remains
were
exhumed
for study in 1862, and moved in 1888 to
Vienna’s
Zentralfriedhof .
There is dispute about the cause of Beethoven’s death;
alcoholic cirrhosis ,
syphilis ,
infectious hepatitis ,
lead poisoning ,
sarcoidosis
and
Whipple’s disease
have all been proposed. Friends and visitors before and after his death clipped locks of his
hair, some of which have been preserved and subjected to additional
analysis, as have skull fragments removed during the 1862
exhumation . Some of these analyses have led to controversial assertions that
Beethoven was accidentally
poisoned
to death by excessive doses of lead-based
treatments administered under instruction from his doctor.
Character
Beethoven’s personal life was troubled by his encroaching
deafness ,
which led him to contemplate suicide (documented in his Heiligenstadt
Testament). Beethoven was often irascible and may have suffered from
bipolar disorder
and irritability brought on by chronic abdominal pain (beginning in his
twenties) that has been attributed to possible lead poisonin Nevertheless, he had a close and devoted circle of friends all his
life, thought to have been attracted by his strength of personality.
Toward the end of his life, Beethoven’s friends competed in their
efforts to help him cope with his incapacities.
Sources show Beethoven’s disdain for authority, and for social rank.
He stopped performing at the piano if the audience chatted amongst
themselves, or afforded him less than their full attention. At soirées,
he refused to perform if suddenly called upon to do so. Eventually,
after many confrontations, the Archduke Rudolph decreed that the usual
rules of court etiquette did not apply to Beethoven.
Religious views
Main article:
Ludwig van Beethoven’s
religious views
Beethoven was attracted to the ideals of the
Enlightenment . In 1804,
when Napoleon’s imperial ambitions became clear, Beethoven took hold of
the title-page of his Third Symphony and scratched the name Bonaparte
out so violently that he made a hole in the paper. He later changed the
work’s title to “Sinfonia Eroica, composta per festeggiare il sovvenire
d’un grand’uom” (“Heroic Symphony, composed to celebrate the memory of a
great man”), and he rededicated it to his patron, Prince Joseph Franz
von Lobkowitz, at whose palace it was first performed.
The fourth movement of his
Ninth Symphony
features an
elaborate choral setting of
Schiller’s
Ode
An die
Freude
(“Ode to Joy”), an optimistic hymn championing the
brotherhood of humanity.
Scholars disagree about
Beethoven’s religious
beliefs , and about the role they played in his work. It has been
asserted, but not proven, that Beethoven was a
Freemason .
Music
A bust based upon Beethoven’s
death
mask
Further information:
Beethoven’s musical style ,
Beethoven and C minor , and
List of
compositions by Ludwig van Beethoven
Beethoven is acknowledged as one of the giants of
classical music ; occasionally he is referred to as one of the
“ three
B s ” (along with
Bach
and
Brahms ) who epitomize that tradition. He was also a pivotal
figure in the transition from 18th century musical
classicism
to 19th century
romanticism , and his influence on subsequent generations of
composers was profound.
Overview
Beethoven composed in several musical genres, and for a variety of
instrument combinations. His works for
symphony orchestra
include nine
symphonies
(the Ninth Symphony includes a chorus), and about a dozen pieces of
“occasional” music. He wrote nine
concerti
for one or more soloists and orchestra, as well as four shorter works
that include soloists accompanied by orchestra. His only
opera
is
Fidelio ;
other vocal works with orchestral accompaniment include two
masses
and a number of shorter works.
His large body of compositions for
piano
includes 32
piano sonatas
and numerous shorter pieces,
including arrangements of some of his other works. Works with piano
accompaniment include 10 violin sonatas, 5 cello sonatas, and a sonata
for
French horn , as well as numerous
lieder .
Beethoven also wrote a significant quantity of chamber music. In
addition to 16
string quartets , he wrote five works for
string quintet , seven for
piano
trio , five for
string trio , and more than a dozen works for a
variety of combinations of wind instruments.
The three periods
“Für Elise”
Sample
of the
Für
Elise
from
Beethoven
Problems listening to this file?
Beethoven’s compositional career is usually divided into Early,
Middle, and Late periods. In this scheme, his early period is taken to last until about 1802, the
middle period from about 1803 to about 1814, and the late period from
about 1815.
In his Early period, Beethoven’s work was strongly influenced by his
predecessors
Haydn
and
Mozart . He also explored new
directions and gradually expanded the scope and ambition of his work.
Some important pieces from the Early period are the
first
and
second
symphonies, the set of six
string quartets
Opus 18 , the first two piano concertos, and the
first dozen or so
piano sonatas , including the famous
Pathétique
sonata, Op.
13.
His Middle (Heroic) period began shortly after Beethoven’s personal
crisis brought on by his recognition of encroaching deafness. It
includes large-scale works that express heroism and struggle.
Middle-period works include six symphonies (Nos. 3–8), the last three
piano concertos, the
Triple Concerto
and
violin concerto , five string
quartets (Nos. 7–11), several piano sonatas (including the
Moonlight ,
Waldstein
and
Appassionata
sonatas),
the
Kreutzer
violin sonata
and Beethoven’s only
opera ,
Fidelio .
Beethoven’s Late period began around 1815. Works from this period are
characterized by their intellectual depth, their formal innovations,
and their intense, highly personal expression. The
String Quartet, Op. 131
has seven linked movements, and the
Ninth Symphony
adds choral forces
to the orchestra in the last movement. Other compositions from this period include the
Missa Solemnis , the last five
string quartets (including the massive
Große
Fuge ) and the last five piano sonatas.
Beethoven on
screen
Main articles:
Eroica (1949 film) ,
Immortal Beloved (film) , and
Copying Beethoven
Eroica
is a 1949
Austrian
film depicting life and works of Beethoven ( Ewald
Balser ), which also entered into the
1949 Cannes Film Festival . The film is directed by
Walter Kolm-Veltée , produced by Guido
Bagier with Walter Kolm-Veltée and written by Walter Kolm-Veltée with
Franz Tassié.
In
1994
a
film
about Beethoven ( Gary
Oldman ) titled
Immortal Beloved
was written and
directed by
Bernard Rose . The story follows
Beethoven’s
secretary
and first
biographer ,
Anton Schindler
(portrayed by
Jeroen Krabbé ), as he attempts to ascertain the true
identity of the
Unsterbliche Geliebte
( Immortal Beloved ) addressed in three letters found in the
late composer’s private papers. Schindler journeys throughout the
Austrian Empire , interviewing women who might be potential
candidates, as well as through Beethoven’s own tumultuous life. Filming
took place in the
Czech
cities of
Prague
and
Kromeriz
and the
Zentralfriedhof
in
Vienna ,
Austria, between 23 May and 29 July 1994.
In 2003 a
BBC
/ Opus Arte film
Eroica
was released, with
Ian Hart
as Beethoven and the
Orchestre
Révolutionnaire et Romantique
conducted by Sir
John Eliot Gardiner
performing the
Eroica Symphony
in its entirety. The
subject of the film is the first performance of the Eroica Symphony in
1804 at the palace of Prince Lobkowitz (played by
Jack Davenport ). In a 2005 three-part BBC miniseries, Beethoven was played by
Paul
Rhys .
A movie titled
Copying Beethoven
was released in 2006, starring
Ed
Harris
as Beethoven. This film was a fictionalized account of
Beethoven’s last days, and his struggle to produce his
Ninth Symphony
before he died.
Comment
Franz Liszt
Filed under:
Uncategorized
—
Leave a comment
April 14, 2010
Franz Liszt
( Hungarian :
Ferencz
Liszt , in modern use
Ferenc Liszt , from 1859 to 1865 officially
Franz Ritter
von Liszt ) (October 22, 1811 – July 31, 1886) was a
Hungarian
composer ,
virtuoso
pianist
and teacher.
Liszt became renowned throughout Europe during the 19th century for
his great skill as a performer. He was said by his contemporaries to
have been the most technically advanced pianist of his age and perhaps
the greatest pianist of all time. He was also an important and influential composer, a notable piano
teacher, a conductor who contributed significantly to the modern
development of the art, and a benefactor to other composers and
performers, notably
Richard Wagner ,
Hector Berlioz ,
Camille Saint-Saëns ,
Edvard
Grieg
and
Alexander Borodin .
As a composer, Liszt was one of the most prominent representatives of
the “ Neudeutsche Schule ” (“New German School”).
He left behind a huge and diverse body of work, in which he influenced
his forward-looking contemporaries and anticipated some 20th-century
ideas and trends. Some of his most notable contributions were the
invention of the
symphonic poem , developing the concept of
thematic transformation
as part of
his experiments in
musical form
and making radical departures in
harmony .
Life
Memorial tablet at the Leopold de Pauli Palace in
Bratislava
commemorating Liszt’s concert there in 1820, aged 9
Early life
The earliest known male ancestor of Franz Liszt is his
great-grandfather, Sebastian List, who as one of the thousands of
German -speaking migrant serfs entered
Hungary
from
Lower
Austria
in the first half of the 18th century, and died in 1793 in
Rajka ,
Moson
County . Liszt’s grandfather was an overseer on several
Esterházy
estates; he could play the piano, violin
and organ. The Liszt clan dispersed throughout Austria and Hungary and gradually
lost touch with one another.
Franz Liszt was born to
Marie
Anna Lager
and
Adam Liszt
on October 22, 1811, in the village of
Raiding
( Hungarian :
Doborján )
in
Sopron County . Liszt’s father played the piano, violin,
cello, and guitar. He had been in the services of
Prince Nikolaus II Esterházy
and knew
Haydn ,
Hummel
and
Beethoven
personally. At age six, Franz Liszt began
listening attentively to his father’s piano playing as well as to show
an interest in both sacred and
Romani
music . Adam began teaching him the piano at age seven, and Franz
Liszt began composing in an elementary manner when he was eight. He
appeared in concerts at Sopron and
Pozsony
in October and November 1820 at age 9. After the concerts, a group of
wealthy Hungarians offered to finance Franz’s musical education
abroad.
In Vienna, Liszt received piano lessons from
Carl
Czerny , who in his own youth had been a student of Beethoven and
Hummel. He also received lessons in composition from
Antonio Salieri , who was then music director of the
Viennese court. His public debut in Vienna on December 1, 1822, at a
concert at the “Landständischer Saal,” was a great success. He was
greeted in Austrian and Hungarian aristocratic circles and also met
Beethoven and
Schubert . In spring 1823, when the one year’s leave of absence came to an end,
Adam Liszt asked Prince Esterházy in vain for two more years. Adam Liszt
therefore took his leave of the Prince’s services. At the end of April
1823, the family for the last time returned to Hungary. At end of May
1823, the family went to
Vienna
again.
Towards the end of 1823 or early 1824 Liszt’s first published
composition appeared in print, a
Variation on a Waltz by
Diabelli
(now S. 147), which was Variation 24 in Part II of
Vaterländischer Künstlerverein .
This anthology, commissioned by Diabelli, included 50 variations on his
waltz by 50 different composers (Part II), Part I being taken up by
Beethoven’s 33 variations on the same theme, which are now better known
as the
Diabelli Variations , Op. 120.
Adolescence in Paris
After his father’s death Liszt returned to Paris; for the next five
years he was to live with his mother in a small apartment. He gave up
touring. To earn money, Liszt gave lessons in piano playing and
composition, often from early morning until late at night. His students
were scattered across the city and he often had to cross long distances.
Because of this, Liszt kept uncertain hours and also took up smoking
and drinking—all habits he would continue throughout his life.
The following year he fell in love with one of his pupils, Caroline
de Saint-Cricq, the daughter of
Charles X ‘s minister of commerce. However, her father
insisted that the affair be broken off. Liszt again fell ill (there was
even an obituary notice of him printed in a Paris newspaper), and he
underwent a long period of religious doubts and pessimism. He again
stated a wish to join the Church but was dissuaded this time by his
mother. He had many discussions with the
Abbé de Lamennais , who
acted as his spiritual father, and also with
Chrétien Urhan , a German-born violinist who introduced him to
the
Saint-Simonists . Urhan also wrote music that was anti-classical and highly subjective,
with titles such as
Elle et moi, La Salvation angélique
and
Les
Regrets , and may have whetted the young Liszt’s taste for musical
romanticism. Equally important for Liszt was Urhan’s earnest
championship of Schubert, which may have stimulated his own lifelong
devotion to that composer’s music.
During this period Liszt read widely to overcome his lack of a
general education, and he soon came into contact with many of the
leading authors and artists of his day, including
Victor
Hugo ,
Lamartine
and
Heinrich Heine . He composed practically nothing in these
years. Nevertheless, the July Revolution of 1830 inspired him to sketch a
Revolutionary Symphony based on the events of the “three glorious
days,” and he took a greater interest in events surrounding him. He met
Hector Berlioz
on December 4, 1830, the day before the
premiere of the
Symphonie fantastique . Berlioz’s
music made a strong impression on Liszt, especially later when he was
writing for orchestra. He also inherited from Berlioz the diabolic
quality of many of his works.
Niccolò Paganini . His playing inspired
Liszt to become as great a virtuoso.
Paganini
After attending an April 20, 1832 concert for charity, for the
victims of a Parisian cholera epidemic, by
Niccolò Paganini , Liszt became determined to become as great a virtuoso on the piano as
Paganini was on the violin. Paris in the 1830s had become the nexus for
pianistic activities, with dozens of pianists dedicated to perfection at
the keyboard. Some, such as
Sigismond Thalberg
and
Alexander Dreyschock , focused on
specific aspects of technique (e.g. the “three-hand effect” and octaves,
respectively). While it was called the “flying trapeze” school of piano
playing, this generation also solved some of the most intractable
problems of piano technique, raising the general level of performance to
previously unimagined heights. Liszt’s strength and ability to stand
out in this company was in mastering all the aspects of piano technique
cultivated singly and assiduously by his rivals.
In 1833 he made transcriptions of several works by Berlioz, including
the
Symphonie fantastique . His chief motive in doing so,
especially with the
Symphonie , was to help the poverty-stricken
Berlioz, whose symphony remained unknown and unpublished. Liszt bore the
expense of publishing the transcription himself and played it many
times to help popularise the original score. He was also forming a friendship with a third composer who influenced
him,
Frédéric Chopin ; under his influence Liszt’s
poetic and romantic side began to develop.
With Countess
Marie d’Agoult
In 1833, Liszt began his relationship with the Countess
Marie d’Agoult . In addition to this, at the end of April
1834 he made the acquaintance of
Felicité de Lamennais .
Under the influence of both, Liszt’s creative output exploded. In 1834
Liszt debuted as a mature and original composer with his piano
compositions
Harmonies poetiques et religieuses
and the set of
three
Apparitions . These were all poetic works which contrasted
strongly with the fantasies he had written earlier.
Franz Liszt, portrait by
Miklós Barabás , 1847
In 1835 the countess left her husband and family to join Liszt in
Geneva; their daughter Blandine was born there on December 18. Liszt
taught at the newly founded Geneva Conservatory, wrote a manual of piano
technique (later lost) and contributed essays for the Paris
Revue et gazette musicale .
In these essays, he argued for the raising of the artist from the status
of a servant to a respected member of the community.
For the next four years Liszt and the countess lived together, mainly
in Switzerland and Italy, where their daughter,
Cosima ,
was born in
Como ,
with occasional visits to Paris. On May 9, 1839 Liszt and the
countess’s only son, Daniel, was born, but that autumn relations between
them became strained. Liszt heard that plans for a Beethoven monument
in Bonn were in danger of collapse for lack of funds, and pledged his
support. Doing so meant returning to the life of a touring virtuoso. The
countess returned to Paris with the children while Liszt gave six
concerts in Vienna then toured Hungary. F
Touring virtuoso
Liszt in 1843
For the next eight years Liszt continued to tour Europe; spending
holidays with the countess and their children on the island of
Nonnenwerth
on the Rhine in summers 1841 and 1843. In spring 1844 the couple
finally separated. This was Liszt’s most brilliant period as a concert
pianist. Honours were showered on him and he was adulated everywhere he
went. Since Liszt often appeared three or four times a week in concert, it
could be safe to assume that he appeared in public well over a thousand
times during this eight-year period. Moreover, his great fame as a
pianist, which he would continue to enjoy long after he had officially
retired from the concert stage, was based mainly on his accomplishments
during this time.
After 1842 “ Lisztomania ” swept across Europe. The reception
Liszt enjoyed as a result can only be described as hysterical. Women
fought over his silk handkerchiefs and velvet gloves, which they ripped
to shreds as souvenirs. Helping fuel this atmosphere was the artist’s
mesmeric personality and stage presence. Many witnesses later testified
that Liszt’s playing raised the mood of audiences to a level of mystical
ecstasy.
Adding to his reputation was the fact that Liszt gave away much of
his proceeds to charity and humanitarian causes. In fact, Liszt had made
so much money by his mid-forties that virtually all his performing fees
after 1857 went to charity. While his work for the Beethoven monument
and the Hungarian National School of Music are well known, he also gave
generously to the building fund of Cologne Cathedral, the establishment
of a
Gymnasium
at Dortmund, and the construction of the Leopold
Church in Pest. There were also private donations to hospitals, schools
and charitable organizations such as the Leipzig Musicians Pension Fund.
When he found out about the Great Fire of Hamburg, which raged for
three weeks during May 1842 and destroyed much of the city, he gave
concerts in aid of the thousands of homeless there.
Liszt in Weimar
In February 1847, Liszt played in Kiev. There he met the Princess
Carolyne zu Sayn-Wittgenstein ,
who dominated most of the rest of his life. She persuaded him to
concentrate on composition, which meant giving up his career as a
travelling virtuoso. After a tour of the Balkans, Turkey and Russia that
summer, Liszt gave his final concert for pay at Elisavetgrad in
September. He spent the winter with the princess at her estate in
Woronince. By retiring from the concert platform at 35, while still at the height
of his powers, Liszt succeeded in keeping the legend of his playing
untarnished.
Liszt in 1858 by
Franz Hanfstaengl
The following year, Liszt took up a long-standing invitation of Grand
Duchess
Maria
Pavlovna of Russia
to settle at
Weimar ,
where he had been appointed
Kapellmeister
Extraordinaire
in 1842, remaining there until 1861. During this
period he acted as conductor at court concerts and on special occasions
at the theatre. He gave lessons to a number of pianists, including the
great virtuoso
Hans von Bülow , who married Liszt’s daughter
Cosima
in 1857 (years after she would marry
Richard Wagner ). He also wrote articles championing
Berlioz
and Wagner. Finally, Liszt had ample time to
compose and during the next 12 years revised or produced those
orchestral and choral pieces upon which his reputation as a composer
mainly rests. His efforts on behalf of Wagner, who was then an exile in
Switzerland, culminated in the first performance of
Lohengrin
in 1850.
Princess Carolyne lived with Liszt during his years in Weimar. She
eventually wished to marry Liszt, but since she had been previously
married and her husband, Russian military officer Prince Nikolaus zu
Sayn-Wittgenstein-Ludwigsburg (1812–1864), was still alive, she had to
convince the Roman Catholic authorities that her marriage to him had
been invalid. After huge efforts and a monstrously intricate process,
she was temporarily successful (September 1860). It was planned that the
couple would marry in Rome, on October 22, 1861, Liszt’s 50th birthday.
Liszt having arrived in Rome on October 21, 1861, the Princess
nevertheless declined, by the late evening, to marry him. It appears
that both her husband and the Czar of Russia had managed to quash
permission for the marriage at the Vatican. The Russian government also
impounded her several estates in the Polish Ukraine, which made her
later marriage to anybody unfeasible.
Liszt in Rome
Liszt, photo by Franz Hanfstaengl, June 1867.
The 1860s were a period of severe catastrophes of Liszt’s private
life. On December 13, 1859, he had lost his son Daniel, and on September
11, 1862, his daughter Blandine also died. In letters to friends Liszt
afterwards announced that he would retreat to a solitary living. He
found it at the monastery
Madonna del Rosario , just outside Rome,
where on June 20, 1863, he took up quarters in a small, Spartan
apartment. He had on June 23, 1857, already joined a
Franciscan
order.
On April 25, 1865, he received the
tonsure
at the hands of Cardinal
Hohenlohe .
Following this he was sometimes called the
Abbé
Liszt. He received the four minor orders on July 31, 1865,
porter ,
lector ,
exorcist ,
and
acolyte .
On 14th August 1879 he was made an honorary
canon
of
Albano . The title ‘Abbé’, the French equivalent of ‘Father’, is a courtesy
title reminiscent of the Eighteenth Century, when it was often given to
men in minor orders; Liszt was never a
priest . ( Abbé
can also
mean
abbot ,
but that definition does not apply here at all.)
At some occasions, Liszt took part in Rome’s musical life. On March
26, 1863, at a concert at the
Palazzo Altieri , he directed a
programme of sacred music. The “Seligkeiten” of his “Christus-Oratorio”
and his “Cantico del Sol di Francesco d’Assisi”, as well as
Haydn’s
“Die Schöpfung” and works by
J. S. Bach , Beethoven, Jornelli,
Mendelssohn
and Palestrina were performed. On January
4, 1866, Liszt directed the “Stabat mater” of his “Christus-Oratorio”,
and on February 26, 1866, his “ Dante Symphony “. There were several further occasions of
similar kind, but in comparison with the duration of Liszt’s stay in
Rome, they were exceptions. Bódog Pichler, who visited Liszt in 1864 and
asked him for his future plans, had the impression that Rome’s musical
life was not satisfying for Liszt. [ citation needed ]
Threefold life
Liszt was invited back to Weimar in 1869 to give master classes in
piano playing. Two years later he was asked to do the same in Budapest
at the Hungarian
Music Academy . From then until
the end of his life he made regular journeys between Rome, Weimar and
Budapest, continuing what he called his “vie trifurquée” or threefold
existence. It is estimated that Liszt travelled at least 4000 miles a
year during this period in his life—an exceptional figure given his
advancing age and the rigours of road and rail in the 1870s.
Last years
Liszt at the piano, an engraving based on a photograph by Louis Held,
Weimar, 1885.
On July 2, 1881, Liszt had fallen down the stairs of the Hotel in
Weimar. Though friends and colleagues had noted swelling in Liszt’s feet
and legs when he had arrived in Weimar the previous month, Liszt had up
to this point been in reasonably good health, and his body retained the
slimness and suppleness of earlier years. The accident, which
immobilised him for eight weeks, changed this. A number of ailments
manifested— dropsy ,
asthma ,
insomnia ,
a
cataract
of the left eye and chronic heart disease. The last-mentioned
eventually contributed to Liszt’s death. He became increasingly plagued
with feelings of desolation, despair and death—feelings which he
expressed in his
works from this period . As he told
Lina
Ramann , “I carry a deep sadness of the heart which must now and
then break out in sound.”
He died in Bayreuth, Germany, on July 31, 1886, at age 74, officially
as a result of
pneumonia
which he may have contracted during the
Bayreuth Festival
hosted by his daughter Cosima. Questions
have been posed as to whether
medical malpractice
played a direct part in Liszt’s
demise.
Composer
Camille Saint-Saëns , an old friend, whom
Liszt had once called “the greatest organist in the world” dedicated
his
Symphony No. 3 “Organ Symphony”
to Liszt; it had premiered in London only a few weeks before his death.
Liszt as pianist
Performing style
There are few, if any, good sources that give an impression of how
Liszt really sounded from the 1820s.
Carl
Czerny
claimed Liszt was a natural who played according to feeling,
and reviews of his concerts especially praise the brilliance, strength
and precision in his playing. At least one also mentions his ability to
absolutely never change tempo, which may be due to his father’s insistence that he practice with a
metronome. His
repertoire at this time consisted primarily of pieces in the style of
the brilliant Viennese school, such as concertos by
Hummel
and works by his former teacher Czerny, and
his concerts often included a chance for the boy to display his prowess
in improvisation.
Franz Liszt Fantasizing at the Piano
(1840), by
Danhauser , commissioned by
Conrad
Graf . The imagined gathering shows seated
Alfred de Musset
or
Alexandre Dumas, père ,
George
Sand , Franz Liszt,
Marie d’Agoult ; standing
Hector Berlioz
or
Victor
Hugo ,
Niccolò Paganini ,
Gioachino Rossini ; a bust of
Beethoven
on the grand piano (a “Graf”), a portrait
of
Byron
on the wall, a
statue of
Joan of Arc
on the far left.
Following the death of Liszt’s father in 1827 and his hiatus from the
life as a touring virtuoso, it is likely Liszt’s playing gradually
developed a more personal style. One of the most detailed descriptions
of his playing from this time comes from the winter of 1831/1832, during
which he was earning a living primarily as a teacher in Paris. Among
his pupils were Valerie Boissier, whose mother Caroline kept a careful
diary of the lessons. From her we learn that:
“M. Liszt’s playing contains abandonment, a liberated feeling, but
even when it becomes impetuous and energetic in his fortissimo, it is
still without harshness and dryness. […] [He] draws from the piano
tones that are purer, mellower and stronger than anyone has been able to
do; his touch has an indescribable charm. […] He is the enemy of
affected, stilted, contorted expressions. Most of all, he wants truth in
musical sentiment, and so he makes a psychological study of his
emotions to convey them as they are. Thus, a strong expression is often
followed by a sense of fatigue and dejection, a kind of coldness,
because this is the way nature works.”
Possibly influenced by Paganini’s showmanship, once Liszt began
focusing on his career as a pianist again his emotionally vivid
presentations of the music were rarely limited to mere sound. His facial
expression and gestures at the piano would reflect what he played, for
which he was sometimes mocked in the press. Also noted was the extravagant liberties he could take with the text of
a score at this time. Berlioz tells us how Liszt would add cadenzas,
tremolos and trills when playing the first movement of Beethoven’s
Moonlight Sonata, and created a dramatic scene by changing the tempo
between Largo and Presto. In his
Baccalaureus letter
to George Sand from the beginning of
1837, Liszt admitted that he had done so for the purpose of gaining
applause, and promised to follow both the letter and the spirit of a
score from now on. It has been debated to what extent he realized his
promise, however. By July 1840 the British newspaper
The Times
could still report
“His performance commenced with Händel’s Fugue in E minor, which was
played by Liszt with an avoidance of everything approaching to
meretricious ornament, and indeed scarcely any additions, except a
multitude of ingeniously contrived and appropriate harmonies, casting a
glow of colour over the beauties of the composition, and infusing into
it a spirit which from no other hand it ever received.”
Repertoire
During his years as a travelling virtuoso Liszt performed an enormous
amount of music throughout Europe, but his core repertoire always centered around his own compositions,
paraphrases and transcriptions. Studying Liszt’s German concerts between
1840 and 1845, the five most frequently-played pieces were the
Grand
Galop chromatique ,
Schubert ‘s
Erlkönig
(in Liszt’s transcription),
Réminiscences
de Don Juan ,
Réminiscences de Robert le Diable , and
Réminiscences
de Lucia de Lammermoor . Among the works by other composers we find compositions like
Weber ‘s
Aufforderung zum Tanz ,
Chopin
Mazurkas, Études by composers like
Ignaz Moscheles , Chopin and
Ferdinand Hiller , but also major works by Beethoven, Weber
and Hummel, and from time to time even selections of Bach, Händel and
Scarlatti.
Most of the concerts at this time were shared with other artists, and
as a result Liszt also often accompanied singers, participated in
chamber music, or performed works with an orchestra in addition to his
own solo part. Frequently played works include Weber’s Konzertstück,
Beethoven’s Emperor Concerto and Choral Fantasy, and Liszt’s reworking
of the Hexameron for piano and orchestra. His chamber music repertoire
included Hummel’s Septet, Beethoven’s Archduke Trio and Kreutzer Sonata,
and a large selection of songs by composers like Rossini, Donizetti,
Beethoven and especially Schubert. At some concerts Liszt could not find
musicians to share the program with, and consequently was among the
first to give solo piano recitals in the modern sense of the word. The
term was coined by the publisher Frederick Beale, who suggested it for
Liszt’s concert at the Hanover Square Rooms in London on June 9, 1840, even though Liszt had given concerts all by himself already by March
1839.
Musical works
The sound of the fountains of the famous garden of
Villa
d’Este
inspired Liszt to write a piano piece called “Jeux d’eau à
la Villa d’Este”. The villa and the portrait of the composer can be seen
in the same image made by
István Orosz
Liszt was a prolific composer. His composition career has a clear
arch that follows his changing professional and personal life. [ citation needed ]
Liszt
is best known for his piano music, but he wrote extensively for many
mediums. Liszt’s piano works are usually divided into two classes. On
the one hand, there are “original works”, and on the other hand
“transcriptions”, “paraphrases” or “fantasies” on works by other
composers. Because of his background as a forefront technical piano
virtuoso, Liszt’s piano works are often marked by their difficulty.
Liszt is very well known as a programmatic composer, or an individual
who bases his compositional ideas in extra-musical things such as a
poetry or painting. Liszt is credited with the creation of the
Symphonic Poem
which is a programmatic
orchestral work that generally consists of a single movement.
Liszt’s compositional style delved deeply into issues of unity both
within and across movements. For this reason, in his most famous and
virtuosic works, he is an archetypal Romantic composer. Liszt pioneered
the technique of thematic transformation, a method of development which
was related to both the existing variation technique and to the new use
of the Leitmotif by
Richard Wagner .
Piano Music
The largest and best known portion of Liszt’s music is his original
piano work. His thoroughly revised masterwork, “ Années de pèlerinage ” (“Years of
Pilgrimage”) includes arguably his most provocative and stirring pieces.
This set of three suites ranges from the virtuosity of the Suisse Orage
(Storm) to the subtle and imaginative visualizations of artworks by
Michelangelo
and
Raphael
in the second set. Années contains some pieces which are loose
transcriptions of Liszt’s own earlier compositions; the first “year”
recreates his early pieces of “Album d’un voyageur”, while the second
book includes a resetting of his own song transcriptions once separately
published as “Tre sonetti di Petrarca” (“Three sonnets of Petrarch”).
The relative obscurity of the vast majority of his works may be
explained by the immense number of pieces he composed, and the level of
technical difficulty which was present in much of his composition.
Liszt’s piano works are usually divided into two classes. On the one
hand, there are “original works”, and on the other hand
“transcriptions”, “paraphrases” or “fantasies” on works by other
composers. Examples for the first class are works such as the piece
Harmonies
poétiques et religieuses
of May 1833 and the
Piano Sonata in B minor
(1853).
Liszt’s transcriptions of
Schubert
songs, his fantasies on operatic melodies, and
his piano arrangements of symphonies by
Berlioz
and
Beethoven
are examples for the second class. As
special case, Liszt also made piano arrangements of his own instrumental
and vocal works. Examples of this kind are the arrangement of the
second movement “Gretchen” of his
Faust Symphony
and the first
“Mephisto Waltz” as well as the “ Liebesträume
No. 3″ and the two volumes of his
“Buch der Lieder”.
Transcriptions
Liszt’s composing music on music, being taken as such, was nothing
new. Nevertheless, Liszt invested a particular kind of creativity.
Instead of just overtaking original melodies and harmonies, he
ameliorated them. In case of his fantasies and transcriptions in Italian
style, there was a problem which was by Wagner addressed as “Klappern
im Geschirr der Perioden”. Composers such as
Bellini
and
Donizetti
knew that certain forms, usually periods of
eight measures, were to be filled with music. Occasionally, while the
first half of a period was composed with inspiration, the second half
was added with mechanical routine. Liszt corrected this by modifying the
melody, the bass and—in cases—the harmonies.
Many of Liszt’s results were remarkable. The
Sonnambula-fantasy
for example, a concert piece full of charming melodies, could certainly
not have been composed either by Bellini or by Liszt alone. Outstanding
examples are also the
Rigoletto-Paraphrase
and the
Faust-Walzer .
The most delicate harmonies in parts of those pieces were not invented
by
Verdi
and
Gounod , but by Liszt.
Hans von Bülow
admitted, that Liszt’s transcription of his
Dante
Sonett
“Tanto gentile” was much more refined than the original he
himself had composed. Liszt’s transcriptions of Schubert songs, his fantasies on operatic
melodies, and his piano arrangements of symphonies by Berlioz and
Beethoven are other well known examples of piano transcriptions.
Liszt was the second pianist (after
Kalkbrenner ) to transcribe
Beethoven ‘s symphonies for the piano. He usually
performed them for audiences that would probably never have an
opportunity to hear the orchestral version.
Original songs
Franz Liszt composed about six dozen original
songs
with
piano
accompaniment. In most cases the lyrics were in German or French, but
there are also some songs in Italian and Hungarian and one song in
English. Liszt began with the song “Angiolin dal biondo crin” in 1839,
and by 1844 had composed about two dozen songs. Some of them had been
published as single pieces. In addition, there was an 1843–1844 series
“Buch der Lieder”. The series had been projected for three volumes,
consisting of six songs each, but only two volumes appeared.
Although Liszt’s early songs are seldom sung, they show him in much
better light than works such as the paraphrase “ Gaudeamus igitur ” and the
Galop
after Bulhakow, both composed in 1843. The transcriptions of the two
volumes of the “ Buch der
Lieder ” can be counted among Liszt’s finest piano works. However, the contemporaries had much to criticise with regard to the
style of the songs. Further critical remarks can be found in Peter
Raabe’s
Liszts Schaffen .
Today, Liszt’s songs are nearly entirely forgotten. As an exception,
most frequently the song “Ich möchte hingehen” is cited. It is because
of a single bar, most resembling the
opening
motif
of Wagner’s
Tristan und Isolde . While it is commonly claimed
that Liszt wrote that motif ten years before Wagner started work on his
masterpiece, it has turned out that this is not true: the original version of “ Ich möchte
hingehn ” was composed in 1844 or 1845. There are four manuscripts,
and only a single one, a copy by August Conradi, contains the said bar
with the
Tristan
motif. It is on a paste-over in Liszt’s hand.
Since in the second half of 1858 Liszt was preparing his songs for
publication, and he just at that time received the first act of Wagner’s
Tristan , it is most likely that the version on the paste-over
was a
quotation
from Wagner. This is not to say, the motif was originally invented by Wagner. An
earlier example can be found in bar 100 of Liszt’s
Ballade
No.2 in B minor
for piano, composed in 1853.
Programme music
A statue of Liszt
Liszt, in some of his works, supported the idea of
programme
music
– that is, music intended to evoke extra-musical ideas. By
contrast,
absolute music
(a radical new idea in the
19th century world of music) stands for itself and is intended to be
appreciated without any particular reference to the outside world.
Liszt’s own point of view regarding programme music can for the time
of his youth be taken from the preface of the
Album d’un voyageur
(1837). According to this, a landscape could evoke a certain kind of
mood. Since a piece of music could also evoke a mood, a mysterious
resemblance with the landscape could be imagined. In this sense the
music would not paint the landscape, but it would match the landscape in
a third category, the mood.
In July 1854 Liszt wrote his essay about Berlioz and
Harold in Italy
that stated that not all music was
programme music. If, in the heat of a debate, a person would go so far
as to claim the contrary, it would be better to put all ideas of
programme music aside. But it would be possible to take means like
harmony, modulation, rhythm, instrumentation and others to let a musical
motif endure a fate.In any case, a programme should only be added to a
piece of music if it was necessarily needed for an adequate
understanding of that piece.
Still later, in a letter to Marie d’Agoult of November 15, 1864,
Liszt wrote:
“Without any reserve I completely subscribe to the rule of which you
so kindly want to remind me, that those musical works which are in a
general sense following a programme must take effect on imagination and
emotion, independent of any programme. In other words: All beautiful
music must be first rate and always satisfy the absolute rules of music
which are not to be violated or prescribed”.
Symphonic poems
Die Hunnenschlacht , as painted by
Wilhelm von Kaulbach , which in turn inspired one of
Liszt’s symphonic poems.
See also:
Symphonic poems (Liszt)
A symphonic poem or tone poem is a piece of
orchestral
music in one movement in which some extramusical program provides a
narrative or illustrative element. This program may come from a
poem , a
story or
novel ,
a
painting ,
or another source. The term was first applied by Liszt to his 13
one-movement orchestral works in this vein. They were not pure
symphonic
movements
in the classical sense because they dealt with descriptive
subjects taken from
mythology , Romantic literature, recent history or
imaginative fantasy. In other words, these works were programmatic
rather than abstract. The form was a direct product of
Romanticism
which encouraged literary, pictorial and dramatic associations in
music. It developed into an important form of
program
music
in the second half of the 19th century.
The first 12 symphonic poems were composed in the decade 1848–58
(though some use material conceived earlier); one other,
Von der
Wiege bis zum Grabe
( From the Cradle to the Grave ), followed
in 1882. Liszt’s intent, according to
Hugh MacDonald
in the
New Grove Dictionary of
Music and Musicians (1980) , was for these single-movement works
“to display the traditional logic of symphonic thought.” That logic, embodied in
sonata
form
as
musical development , was traditionally
the unfolding of latent possibilities in given themes in
rhythm ,
melody
and
harmony ,
either in part or in their entirety, as they were allowed to combine,
separate and contrast with one another. To the resulting sense of struggle Beethoven had added an intensity of
feeling and the involvement of his audiences in that feeling, beginning
from the
Eroica
Symphony
to use the
elements of the craft of music— melody ,
bass ,
counterpoint , rhythm and harmony—in a new
synthesis of elements toward this end.
Liszt attempted in the symphonic poem to extend this revitalization
of the nature of musical discourse and add to it the Romantic ideal of
reconciling classical formal principles to external literary concepts.
To this end, he combined elements of
overture
and
symphony
with descriptive elements, approaching symphonic first movements in
form and scale. While showing extremely creative amendments to sonata form, Liszt used
compositional devices such as
cyclic
form ,
motifs
and
thematic transformation
to lend
these works added coherence. Their composition proved daunting, requiring a continual process of
creative experimentation that included many stages of composition,
rehearsal and revision to reach a version where different parts of the
musical form seemed balanced.
Late works
See also:
Late works of Franz Liszt
Liszt as caricatured in 1886 by
Vanity Fair ‘s
‘Spy’
With some works from the end of the Weimar years Liszt drifted more
and more away from the musical taste of his time. An early example is
the melodrama “Der traurige Mönch” (“The sad monk”) after a poem by
Nikolaus Lenau , composed in the beginning of October 1860.
While in the 19th century harmonies were usually considered as major or
minor triads to which
dissonances
could be added, Liszt
took the
augmented triad
as central chord.
More examples can be found in the third volume of Liszt’s
Années
de Pèlerinage . “Les Jeux d’Eaux à la Villa d’Este” (“The Fountains
of the
Villa d’Este “), composed in September 1877,
foreshadows the
impressionism
of pieces on similar subjects by
Debussy
and
Ravel .
However, other pieces such as the “Marche funèbre, En mémoire de
Maximilian I, Empereur du Mexique” (“Funeral march, In memory of
Maximilian I, Emperor of Mexico”) composed in 1867 are without stylistic parallel in the 19th and 20th
centuries.
At a later stage Liszt experimented with “forbidden” things such as
parallel 5ths in the “Csárdás macabre” and
atonality
in the
Bagatelle sans tonalité
(“Bagatelle without Tonality”). In the last part of his “2de Valse
oubliée” (“2nd Forgotten waltz”) Liszt composed that he could not find a
lyrical melody. [ clarification needed ]
Pieces like the “2nd Mephisto-Waltz” are shocking with nearly endless
repetitions of short motives. Also characteristic are the “Via crucis”
of 1878, as well as
Unstern! ,
Nuages
gris , and the two works entitled
La lugubre gondola
of the 1880s.
Literary works
Besides his musical works, Liszt wrote essays about many subjects.
Most important for an understanding of his development is the article
series “De la situation des artistes” (“On the situation of the
artists”) which 1835 was published in the Parisian
Gazette musicale .
In winter 1835–36, during Liszt’s stay in
Geneva ,
about half a dozen further essays followed. One of them which should
have been published under the name “Emm Prym” was about Liszt’s own
works. It was sent to Maurice Schlesinger, editor of the
Gazette
musicale . Schlesinger, however, following an advice of Berlioz, did
not publish it. In the beginning of 1837, Liszt published a review of some piano works
of
Sigismond Thalberg . The review evoked a
huge scandal. Liszt also published a series of writings titled “Baccalaureus
letters”, ending in 1841.
During the Weimar years, Liszt wrote a series of essays about operas,
leading from
Gluck
to
Wagner . Besides, Liszt wrote essays about Berlioz and the
symphony
Harold in Italy ,
Robert
and
Clara Schumann ,
John Field’s
nocturnes, songs of
Robert
Franz , a planned
Goethe
foundation at Weimar, and
other subjects. In addition to these essays, Liszt wrote a book about
Chopin
as well as a book about the
Romanis
(Gypsies) and their music in Hungary.
While all of those literary works were published under Liszt’s name,
it is not quite clear which parts of them he had written himself. It is
known from his letters that during the time of his youth there had been
collaboration with Marie d’Agoult. During the Weimar years it was the
Princess Wittgenstein who helped him. In most cases the manuscripts have
disappeared so that it is difficult to decide which of Liszt’s literary
works actually were works of his own. However, until the end of his
life it was Liszt’s point of view that it was he who was responsible for
the contents of those literary works.
Liszt also worked until at least 1885 on a treatise for modern
harmony. Pianist Arthur Friedheim, who also served as Liszt’s personal
secretary, remembered seeing it among Liszt’s papers at Weimar. Liszt
told Friedheim that the time was not yet ripe to publish the manuscript,
titled
Sketches for a Harmony of the Future . Unfortunately, this
treatise has been lost.
Legacy
Liszt’s students
Early students
Liszt was one of the most noted teachers of the 19th century. This
part of his career commenced after his father’s death in August 1827.
For the purpose of earning his own and his mother’s living, Liszt gave
lessons in composition and piano playing. According to a letter to
Monsieur de Mancy on December 23, 1829, he was so full of lessons that
each day, from half-past eight in the morning till 10 at night, he had
scarcely breathing time. Most of Liszt’s students of this period were amateurs, but there were
also some who made a professional career. An example of the first kind
is Valerie Boissier, the later Comtesse de Gasparin. Examples of the
second kind are Pierre Wolff and Hermann Cohen. During winter 1835–36
they were Liszt’s colleagues at the Conservatoire at
Geneva .
Wolff then went to
Saint Petersburg .
Cohen, who from
George Sand
received the nickname “Puzzi”,
developed into a very successful pianist. Of Jewish origin, he was
baptized on August 28, 1847. On this day he experienced what he called
an “apparition” of Christ, Mary and the saints in an “ecstasy of love”. A
year later he became novice of a Carmelite convent. When on October 7,
1850, he was professed, he took the name Père Augstin-Marie du Très
Saint Sacrament (“Pater Augustin-Mary of the Holiest Sacrament”). On
April 19, 1851, he was ordained as priest. In spring 1862 he met Liszt
in
Rome .
After colloquies with Pater Augustin, Liszt decided that he would
himself become ecclesiastic.
During the years of his tours Liszt gave only few lessons. Examples
of students from this period are Johann Nepumuk Dunkl and Wilhelm von
Lenz. Dunkl received lessons from Liszt during winter 1839–40. He had
introduced himself by playing
Thalberg’s
Fantasy Op. 6 on melodies from
Meyerbeer’s
opera “Robert le diable”. Liszt later called
him a “Halbschüler” (“half-student”). Lenz, from St. Petersburg, had met
Liszt already at the end of 1828. In summer 1842 he was in Paris again
where he received further lessons from Liszt. He was merely an amateur
with a repertoire of pieces such as Chopin’s Nocturne Op. 9/2. In spring
1844, in Dresden, Liszt met the young
Hans von Bülow , his later son in law. Bülow’s repertoire
included Thalberg’s Fantasy “La Donna del Lago” Op. 40 and Liszt’s
Sonnambula-Fantasy .
Later students
Since Liszt had settled in Weimar, the number of those who received
lessons from him was steadily increasing. Until his death in 1886 there
would have been several hundred people who in some sense may have been
regarded as his students. August Göllerich published a voluminous
catalogue of them. In a note he added the remark that he had taken the connotation
“student” in its widest sense. As consequence, his catalogue includes
names of pianists, violinists, cellists, harpists, organists, composers,
conductors, singers and even writers. Another catalogue was prepared by
Carl Lachmund. In Lachmund’s catalogue his own wife’s name, missing in
Göllerich’s catalogue, is included. She had successfully persuaded Liszt
to listen to her playing the harp. After she had played a single piece,
without Liszt saying a word about it, she was nominated as Liszt’s
student by her husband.
The following catalogue by Ludwig Nohl, headed with “Die Hauptschüler
Liszts” (“Liszt’s main students”), was approved in September 1881 and,
with regard to the order of the names, corrected, by Liszt.
Hans von Bülow
Carl Tausig
Franz Bendel
Martin Krause
Hans von Bronsart
Karl Klindworth
Alexander Winterberger
Julius Reubke
Theodor Ratzenberger
Robert Pflughaupt
Friedrich Altschul
Nicolaus Neilissoff
Carl Baermann
Dionys Pruckner
Ferdinand Schreiber
Louis Rothfeld
Antal Siposs
George Leitert
Julius Richter
Louis Jungmann
William Mason
Max Pinner
Juliusz Zarębski
Giovanni Sgambati
Carlo Lippi
Siegfried Langaard
Karl Pohlig
Arthur Friedheim
Louis Marek
Eduard Reuss
Bertrand Roth
Berthold Kellermann
Carl Stasny
Josef Wieniawsky
Ingeborg Starck-Bronsart
Sophie Menter-Popper
Sophie Pflughaupt
Aline Hundt
Pauline Fichtner-Erdmannsdörfer
Ahrenda Blume
Anna Mehlig
Vera Timanova
Martha Remmert
Sara Magnus-Heinze
Dora Petersen
Ilonka Ravacz
Cäcilia Gaul
Marie Breidenstein
Amy Fay
In 1886 a similar catalogue would have been much longer, including
names such as
Eugen d’Albert ,
Walter
Bache , Carl Lachmund,
Moriz Rosenthal ,
Emil Sauer ,
Alexander Siloti ,
Conrad Ansorge , William Dayas, August Göllerich,
Bernhard Stavenhagen ,
August Stradal ,
István Thomán
and others.
Nohl’s catalogue was by far not complete, and this even when the
restriction to the period since the Weimar years is neglected. Of
Liszt’s Hungarian students, for example, only Antal Siposs and Ilonka
Ravasz were mentioned. Siposs had become Liszt’s student in 1858 in
Weimar, after Liszt had heard him playing at a concert and invited him.
In 1861 Siposs returned to Budapest, where in 1875 he founded a music
school. Ilonka Ravasz was since winter 1875–76 one of Liszt’s most gifted
students at the newly founded Royal Academy for Music at Budapest.
Astonishingly, the names of Aladár Juhász and Károly Aggházy are missing
in Nohl’s catalogue, although both had been among Liszt’s favourite
students at the Hungarian Academy.
Also missing are the names of Agnes Street-Klindworth and Olga
Janina. Agnes Street-Klindworth had in 1853 arrived in Weimar, where she
received lessons in piano playing from Liszt and lessons in composition
from Peter Cornelius. Until 1861 she was Liszt’s secret mistress. Olga
Janina had joined the circle around Liszt in 1869 in Rome. According to
Liszt’s impression, she had rare and admirable musical talents. In his presence, she performed his piano concertos in E-flat and A
Major as well as further examples of his works.
Unfortunately, Olga Janina fell in love with Liszt. They had a short
affair, until in spring 1871—on Liszt’s initiative—they separated. Olga
went to America, but in spring 1873 returned to Budapest. In a telegram
to Liszt she had announced that she would kill him. After three
adventurous days together with Liszt in an apartment in Budapest she
left. Together with Liszt’s student Franz Servais she first went to Belgium
where she gave concerts which were brilliant successes. She then,
together with Servais, went to Italy.
During the 1870s Olga Janina wrote several scandalous books about
Liszt, among them the novel
Souvenirs d’une Cosaque , published
under the pseudonym “Robert Franz”. In Göllerich’s catalogue of Liszt’s
students she is registered as “Janina, Olga, Gräfin (Marquise Cezano)
(Genf)”. Thus she may have changed her name and moved to Geneva. Taking
the preface of her
Souvenirs d’une Cosaque
literally, she had
first moved from Italy to Paris where she had lived in poverty. The last
paragraph of the preface can be read as a dedication to Liszt.
Besides Liszt’s master students there was a crowd of those who could
at best reach only moderate abilities. In such cases, Liszt’s lessons changed nothing. However, also several of Liszt’s master students were disappointed
about him. An example is Eugen d’Albert, who in the end was on nearly hostile
terms with Liszt. The same must be said of
Felix Draeseke
who had joined the circle around Liszt at
Weimar in 1857, and who during the first half of the 1860s had been one
of the most prominent representatives of the
New German School . In Nohl’s catalogue he is not even
mentioned. Also Hans von Bülow, since the 1860s, had more and more
drifted towards a direction which was not only different from Liszt’s,
but opposite to it
According to August Stradal, some of Liszt’s master students had
claimed that
Anton Rubinstein
was a better teacher than
Liszt. It might have been meant as allusion to Emil Sauer, who had in
Moscow
studied with
Nikolai Rubinstein . During a couple of
months in summers 1884 and 1885 he studied with Liszt at Weimar. When he
arrived for the first time, he already was a virtuoso of strongest
calibre who shortly before had made a concert tour through Spain. The
question of whether there was any change in his playing after he had
studied with Liszt remains open. According to his autobiography
Meine
Welt , he had found it imposing when Arthur Friedheim was thundering
Liszt’s
Lucrezia-Fantasy . Regarding Liszt’s playing a Beethoven
Sonata, however, he wrote, Liszt had at least given a good performance
as actor. As his opinion, Sauer had told his fellow students that Anton
Rubinstein was a greater composer than Liszt. In Sauer’s own compositions, a piano concerto, two sonatas, about two
and a half dozen Etudes and several concert pieces, no influence of
Liszt as composer of the 1880s can be recognized.
Liszt’s teaching
approach
Liszt offered his students little technical advice, expecting them to
“wash their dirty linen at home,” as he phrased it. Instead, he focused
on musical interpretation with a combination of anecdote, metaphor and
wit. He advised one student tapping out the opening chords of
Beethoven’s
Waldstein
Sonata , “Do
not chop beefsteak for us.” To another who blurred the rhythm in
Liszt’s
Gnomenreigen
(usually done by playing the piece too fast
in the composer’s presence): “There you go, mixing salad again.” Liszt
also wanted to avoid creating carbon copies of himself; rather, he
believed in preserving artistic individuality.
There were some pieces which Liszt famously refused to hear at his
masterclasses. Among them were
Carl
Tausig ‘s transcription of
J. S. Bach ‘s organ
Toccata and Fugue in D
minor , and
Chopin ‘s
Scherzo No. 2 in B-flat minor . Liszt
also did not like to hear his own Polonaise No. 2 in E Major, as it was
overplayed and frequently badly played.
Liszt did not charge for lessons. He was troubled when German
newspapers published details of pedagogue
Theodor Kullak ‘s will, revealing that Kullak had generated
more than one million marks from teaching. “As an artist, you do not
rake in a million marks without performing some sacrifice on the altar
of Art,” Liszt told his biographer
Lina
Ramann . However,
Carl Czerny
charged an expensive fee for
lessons and even dismissed
Stephen Heller
when he was unable to afford to pay for his
lessons. Interestingly, Liszt spoke very fondly of his former teacher,
to whom he dedicated his
Transcendental Etudes . He wrote the
Allgemeine
musikalische Zeitung , urging Kullak’s sons to create an endowment
for needy musicians, as Liszt himself frequently did.
In the summer of 1936, Hungarian-French music critic
Emil
Haraszti
published a two-part essay on Liszt, entitled
Liszt á
Paris
in the publication
La Revue musicale . In 1937 he
published
Deux Franciscians: Adam et Franz Liszt
and in December
of that year published
La Probleme Liszt . The essay, which is a
deep exploration of the musicality of Liszt, established Haraszti as one
of the foremost Liszt scholars of his generation.
Royal
Academy of Music at Budapest
Since the early 1860s there were attempts of some of Liszt’s
Hungarian contemporaries to have him settled with a position in Hungary.
In January 1862, in Rome, Liszt received a letter by Baron Gábor
Prónay, since 1850 President of a Conservatory in Pest. Baron Prónay
offered Liszt the position as President. When in 1867 the Conservatory
became “Ungarisches National Konservatorium” (“Hungarian National
Conservatory”), Baron Prónay still tried to persuade Liszt to take the
leadership. Liszt, however, in letters to Baron Prónay and further ones of his
Hungarian contemporaries explained that his career as virtuoso and as
conductor had finally ended. If he took a position in Hungary, it would
be solely for the purpose of spreading his own compositions, his
Oratorios and his symphonic works. Besides, as soon as he left Rome, it
was his duty to spend some months of the year in Weimar. The Grand Duc
had for several times asked for it.
In 1871 the Hungarian Prime Minister
Gyula Andrássy
made a new attempt. In a writing of June 4,
1871, to the Hungarian King he demanded an annual rent of 4,000 Gulden and the rank of a
“Königlicher Rat” (“Councellor of the King”) for Liszt, who in return
would permanently settle in Budapest, directing the orchestra of the
National Theatre as well as music schools and further musical
institutions. With decision of June 13, 1871, the King agreed. By that time there were also plans of the foundation of a Royal Academy
for Music at Budapest, of which the Hungarian state should be in
charge. The Royal Academy is not to be confused with the National
Conservatory which still existed. The National Conservatory, of which
the city Budapest was in charge, was until his death in 1875 directed by
Baron Prónay. His successor was Count Géza Zichy.
The plan of the foundation of the Royal Academy was in 1871 refused
by the Hungarian Parliament, but a year later the Parliament agreed.
Liszt was ordered to take part in the foundation. In March 1875 he was
nominated as President. According to his wishes, the Academy should have
been opened not earlier than in late autumn 1876. However, the Academy
was officially opened already on November 14, 1875. Since it was Liszt’s
opinion that his colleagues
Franz
Erkel , the director,
Kornél Ábrányi
and
Robert Volkmann
could quite well do this job without him,
he was absent. He arrived on February 15, 1876, in Budapest. On March 2
he started giving lessons, and on March 30 he left. The main purpose of
his coming to Budapest had been a charity concert on March 20 in favour
of the victims of a flood.
In November 1875, 38 students had passed the entrance examinations.
21 of them wanted to study piano playing, the others composition.
Details of the entrance exainations are known from an account by Károly
Swoboda (Szabados), one of Liszt’s first students at the Royal Academy. According to this, candidates for a piano class had to play a single
piano piece of their own choice. It could be a sonata movement by
Mozart, Clementi or Beethoven. The candidates then had to sight read an
easy further piece. Candidates for a composition class had to reproduce
and continue a given melody of 4, 5 or 8 bars, after Volkmann had played
it for about half a dozen times to them. Besides, they had to put
harmonies to a given bass which was written on a table.
After Liszt had arrived, he selected 8 students for his class for
advanced piano playing. To these came Áladár Juhász as the most
outstanding one. As exception, he was to study piano playing only with
Liszt. The others were matriculated as students of Erkel, since it was him
from whom they would receive their lessons during Liszt’s absence. Erkel
also gave lessons in specific matters of Hungarian music. Volkmann gave
lessons in composition and instrumentation. Ábrányi gave lessons in
music aesthetics and harmony theory. Liszt had wished that there should
have been a class for sacral music, leaded by Franz Xaver Witt. He had
also wished that Hans von Bülow should take a position as piano
professor. However, neither Witt nor Bülow agreed.
In spite of the conditions under which Liszt had in June 1871 been
appointed as “Königlicher Rat”, he neither directed the orchestra of the
National Theatre, nor did he permanently settle in Hungary. As usual case, he arrived in mid-winter in Budapest. After one or two
concerts of his students by the beginning of spring he left. He never
took part in the final examinations, which were in summer of every year.
Most of his students were still matriculated as students of either
Erkel or later Henrik Gobbi. Some of them joined the lessons which he
gave in summer in Weimar. In winter, when he was in Budapest, some
students of his Weimar circle joined him there.
Judging from the concert programs of Liszt’s students at Budapest,
the standard resembled that of an advanced masterclass of our days.
There was a difference, however, with regard to the repertoire. Most
works as played at the concerts were works of composers of the 19th
century, and many of the composers are now forgotten. As rare
exceptions, occasionally a piece of
J. S. Bach
or
Händel
was played.
Mozart
and
Haydn ,
but also
Schubert
and
Weber , were missing. Of
Beethoven
only a comparatively small selection of his
works was played. In typical cases Liszt himself was merely represented
with his transcriptions.
The actual abilities Liszt’s students at Budapest and the standard of
their playing can only be guessed. Liszt’s lessons of winter 1877–78
were in letters to Lina Ramann described by Auguste Rennebaum, herself
Liszt’s student at the Royal Academy. According to this, there had been
some great talents in Liszt’s class. However, the abilities of the
majority had been very poor. August Stradal, who visited Budapest in 1885 and 1886, took the same
point of view. In contrast to this, Deszö Legány claimed, much in Stradal’s book was
nonsense, taken from Stradal’s own fantasy. Legány’s own reliability, however, is not beyond doubt since many of
his attempts of whitewashing Liszt and—even more—the Hungarian
contemporaries are too obvious. Margit Prahács shared and supported
Stradal’s view. Her quotations from the contemporary Hungarian press
show that much of Stradal’s critique had been true. Concerning Liszt’s
relation with his Hungarian contemporaries at the end of his life, for
example, in spring 1886 the journal
Zenelap
wrote:
“It is solely in Budapest, where musicians are wandering on such
high clouds that they hardly take notice when Liszt is among them.”
In 1873, at the occasion of Liszt’s 50th anniversary as performing
artist, the city Budapest had installed a “Franz Liszt Stiftung” (“Franz
Liszt Foundation”). The foundation was destined to provide stipends of
200 Gulden for three students of the Academy who had shown excellent
abilities and especially had achieved progress with regard to Hungarian
music. Every year it was Liszt alone who could decide which one of the
students should receive the money. He gave the total sum of 600 Gulden
either to a single student or to a group of three or more of them, not
asking whether they were actually matriculated at the Academy.
It was also Liszt’s habit to declare all students who took part in
his lessons as his private students. As consequence, nearly none of them
paid any charge at the Academy. Since the Academy needed the money,
there was a ministerial order of February 13, 1884, according to which
all those who took part in Liszt’s lessons had to pay an annual charge
of 30 Gulden. However, Liszt did not respect this, and in the end the
Minister resigned. In fact, the Academy was still the winner, since
Liszt gave much money from his taking part in charity concerts.
The lessons in specific matters of Hungarian music turned out as
problematic enterprise, since there were different opinions, exactly
what Hungarian music actually was. In 1881 a new edition of Liszt’s book
about the Romanis and their music in Hungary appeared. According to
this, Hungarian music was identical with the music as played by the
Hungarian Romanis. Liszt had also claimed, Semitic people, among them
the Romanis, had no genuine creativity. For this reason, according to
Liszt’s book, they only adopted melodies from the country where they
lived. After the book had appeared, Liszt was in Budapest accused for a
presumed spreading of anti-Semitic ideas. In the following year no students at all wanted to be matriculated for
lessons in Hungarian music. According to the issue of July 1, 1886, of
the journal
Zenelap , this subject at the Hungarian Academy had
already a long time ago been dropped.
In 1886 there was still no class for sacral music, but there were
classes for solo and chorus singing, piano, violin, cello, organ and
composition. The number of students had grown to 91 and the number of
professors to 14. Since the winter of 1879–80, the Academy had its own
building. On the first floor there was an apartment where since the
winter of 1880–81 Liszt lived during his stays in Budapest. His last
stay was from January 30 to March 12, 1886. After Liszt’s death Janós
Végh, since 1881 vice-president, became president. No earlier than 40
years later the Academy was renamed to “Franz Liszt Akademie”. Until
then, due to world war I, Liszt’s Europe and also his Hungary had died.
Mainly, the only connection between Franz Liszt and the “Franz Liszt
Akademie” was the name.
Liszt School of
Music Weimar
On June 24, 1872, the composer and conductor
Karl Müller-Hartung
founded an “Orchesterschule” (“Orchestra School”) at Weimar. Although
Liszt and Müller-Hartung were on friendly terms, Liszt took no active
part in that foundation. The “Orchesterschule” later developed to a
conservatory which still exists and is now called “ Liszt School of
Music Weimar “.
Comment
Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart
Filed under:
Uncategorized
—
Leave a comment
April 13, 2010
Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart
(German:
[ˈvɔlfɡaŋ amaˈdeus ˈmoːtsart] ,
full baptismal name
Johannes Chrysostomus Wolfgangus Theophilus
Mozart
(27 January 1756 – 5 December 1791), was a prolific and influential
composer
of the
Classical era . He composed over 600
works , many acknowledged as pinnacles of
symphonic ,
concertante ,
chamber ,
piano ,
operatic , and
choral
music . He is
among the most enduringly popular of
classical
composers.
Mozart showed prodigious ability from his earliest childhood in
Salzburg .
Already competent on
keyboard
and
violin , he
composed from the age of five and performed before European royalty; at
17 he was engaged as a court musician in Salzburg, but grew restless
and traveled in search of a better position, always composing
abundantly. While visiting
Vienna
in 1781, he was dismissed from his Salzburg
position. He chose to stay in the capital, where he achieved fame but
little financial security. During his final years in Vienna, he composed
many of his best-known symphonies, concertos, and operas, and the
Requiem . The circumstances of his early death have
been much mythologized. He was survived by his wife
Constanze
and two sons.
Mozart learned voraciously from others, and developed a brilliance
and maturity of style that encompassed the light and graceful along with
the dark and passionate—the whole informed by a vision of humanity
“redeemed through art, forgiven, and reconciled with nature and the
absolute.” His influence on subsequent Western
art
music
is profound.
Beethoven
wrote his own early compositions in the
shadow of Mozart, of whom
Joseph
Haydn
wrote that “posterity will not see such a talent again in 100
years.”
Biography
Family and
early years
Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart was born to
Leopold
and
Anna Maria Pertl Mozart
at 9  Getreidegasse
in
Salzburg ,
capital of the sovereign
Archbishopric of Salzburg , in what
is now Austria. Then it was part of the
Holy Roman Empire . His only sibling to survive past birth
was
Maria Anna
(1751–1829), called “Nannerl”.
Wolfgang was
baptized
the day after his birth at
St. Rupert’s Cathedral . The baptismal record gives his
name in Latinized form as
Joannes Chrysostomus Wolfgangus Theophilus
Mozart . He generally called himself “Wolfgang Amadè Mozart” as an adult, but
there were many variants .
His father Leopold (1719–1787) was deputy
Kapellmeister
to the court orchestra of the Archbishop of Salzburg, and a minor
composer. He was also an experienced teacher. In the year of Mozart’s
birth, his father published a violin textbook,
Versuch einer
gründlichen Violinschule , which achieved some success.
When Nannerl was seven she began keyboard lessons with her father,
and her three-year-old brother would look on, evidently fascinated.
Years later, after his death, she reminisced:
He often spent much time at the
clavier ,
picking out thirds, which he was always striking, and his pleasure
showed that it sounded good. […] In the fourth year of his age his
father, for a game as it were, began to teach him a few minuets and
pieces at the clavier. […] He could play it faultlessly and with the
greatest delicacy, and keeping exactly in time. […] At the age of five
he was already composing little pieces, which he played to his father
who wrote them down.
These early pieces,
K.
1–5, were recorded in the
Nannerl Notenbuch .
Biographer
Maynard Solomon
notes that while Leopold was a devoted teacher to his children, there
is evidence that Wolfgang was keen to make progress beyond what he was
being taught. His first ink-spattered composition and his precocious
efforts with the violin were on his own initiative, and came as a great
surprise to Leopold. Father and son were so close that these childhood
accomplishments brought tears to Leopold’s eyes.
Leopold eventually gave up composing when his son’s outstanding
musical talents became evident. He was Wolfgang’s only teacher in his earliest years, and taught his
children languages and academic subjects as well as music.
1762–1773:
Years of travel
Main articles:
Mozart family grand tour
and
Mozart in Italy
During Mozart’s formative years, his family made several European
journeys in which he and Nannerl performed as
child
prodigies . These began with an exhibition in 1762 at the court of
the
Prince-elector
Maximilian III
of
Bavaria
in
Munich ,
then in the same year at the Imperial Court in
Vienna
and
Prague .
A long concert tour spanning three and a half years followed, taking
the family to the courts of
Munich ,
Mannheim ,
Paris, London,
The Hague , again to Paris, and back home via
Zürich ,
Donaueschingen , and Munich. During this trip
Mozart met a great number of musicians and acquainted himself with the
works of other composers. A particularly important influence was
Johann Christian Bach , whom Mozart visited in London
in 1764 and 1765. The family again went to Vienna in late 1767 and
remained there until December 1768.
These trips were often arduous. Travel conditions were primitive,
the family had to wait patiently for invitations and reimbursement from
the nobility, and they endured long, near-fatal illnesses far from home: first
Leopold (London, summer 1764) then both children (The Hague, autumn 1765).
After one year in Salzburg, father and son set off for Italy, leaving
Wolfgang’s mother and sister at home. This travel lasted from December
1769 to March 1771. As with earlier journeys, Leopold wanted to display
his son’s abilities as a performer and as a rapidly maturing composer.
Wolgang Mozart met
G. B. Martini
in
Bologna ,
and was accepted as a member of the famous
Accademia Filarmonica .
In Rome he heard
Gregorio Allegri ‘s
Miserere
once in performance in the
Sistine Chapel . He wrote it out in its entirety from memory,
only returning to correct minor errors—thus producing the first illegal
copy of this closely guarded property of the
Vatican .
In Milan, Mozart wrote the opera
Mitridate, re di Ponto
(1770),
which was performed with success. This led to further opera
commissions . He returned with his father
later twice to Milan (August–December 1771; October 1772 – March 1773)
for the composition and premieres of
Ascanio in Alba
(1771) and
Lucio
Silla
(1772). The father hoped these visits would result in a
professional appointment for his son in Italy, but such hopes were never
fulfilled.
Toward the end of the final Italian journey, Mozart wrote the first
of his works to be still widely performed today, the solo
cantata
Exsultate, jubilate ,
K.
165.
1773–1777:
The Salzburg court
After finally returning with his father from Italy on 13 March 1773,
Mozart was employed as a court musician by the ruler of Salzburg
Prince-Archbishop Hieronymus
Colloredo . The composer was a favorite son in Salzburg, where he had
a great number of friends and admirers. He had the opportunity to work in many genres, including symphonies,
sonatas, string quartets, serenades, and a few minor operas. Several of
these early works are still performed today. Between April and December
of 1775, Mozart developed an enthusiasm for violin concertos, producing a
series of five (the only ones he ever wrote), which steadily increase
in their musical sophistication. The last three— K. 216 ,
K. 218 ,
K. 219 —are now staples of the
repertoire. In 1776 he turned his efforts to
piano concertos , culminating in the E-flat
concerto
K. 271
of early 1777,
considered by critics to be a breakthrough work.
Despite these artistic successes, Mozart grew increasingly discontent
with Salzburg and redoubled his efforts to find a position elsewhere.
One reason was his low salary, 150 florins per year; but also, Mozart longed to compose operas, and Salzburg provided only
rare occasions for these. The situation worsened in 1775 when the court
theater was closed, especially since the other theater in Salzburg was
largely reserved for visiting troupes.
Two long expeditions in search of work (both Leopold and Wolfgang
were looking) interrupted this long Salzburg stay: they visited Vienna
from 14 July to 26 September 1773, and
Munich
from 6 December 1774 to March 1775. Neither visit was successful, though
the Munich journey resulted in a popular success with the premiere of
Mozart’s opera
La finta giardiniera .
1777–1778:
The Paris journey
In August 1777, Mozart resigned his Salzburg position and on 23 September ventured out once more in search of employment,
with visits to
Augsburg ,
Mannheim ,
Paris, and
Munich . Since Archbishop Colloredo would not give Leopold leave to travel,
Mozart’s mother Anna Maria was assigned to accompany him.
Mozart became acquainted with members of the famous orchestra in
Mannheim, the best in Europe at the time. He also fell in love with
Aloysia
Weber , one of four daughters in a musical family. There were some
prospects of employment in Mannheim, but they came to nothing; and
Mozart left for Paris on 14 March 1778 to continue his search. There his luck was hardly better; one of his
letters home hints at a possible post as an organist at
Versailles ,
but Mozart was not interested in such an appointment. He fell into debt and took to pawning valuables. The nadir of the visit occurred when Mozart’s mother took ill, and died
on 3 July 1778. There had been delays in calling a doctor—probably, according to
Halliwell, because of a lack of funds.
While Wolfgang was in Paris, Leopold was energetically pursuing
opportunities for him back in Salzburg,,
and with the support of local nobility secured him a better post as
court organist and concertmaster. The yearly salary was 450 florins; but Wolfgang was reluctant to accept, and after leaving Paris on 26 September 1778 he tarried in Mannheim and
Munich, still hoping to obtain an appointment outside Salzburg. In
Munich he again encountered Aloysia, now a very successful singer: but
she made it plain that she was no longer interested in him.
Mozart finally reached home on 15 January 1779 and took up the new
position, but his discontent with Salzburg was undiminished.
The
A minor piano sonata
K. 310/300d
and the
“Paris” Symphony
(no. 31) are among
several well-known works from Mozart’s time in Paris, where they were
performed on 12 June and 18 June 1778.
1781:
Departure to Vienna
In January 1781, Mozart’s opera
Idomeneo
premiered with “considerable success” in
Munich . The following March the composer was summoned to
Vienna ,
where his employer, Archbishop Colloredo, was attending the celebrations
for the accession of
Joseph II
to the Austrian
throne. Mozart, fresh from the adulation he had earned in Munich, was
offended when Colloredo treated him as a mere servant, and particularly
when the archbishop forbade him to perform before the Emperor at
Countess Thun ‘s for a fee equal to half of his
yearly Salzburg salary. The resulting quarrel came to a head in May:
Mozart attempted to resign, and was refused. The following month
permission was granted, but in a grossly insulting way: the composer was
dismissed literally “with a kick in the ass”, administered by the
archbishop’s steward, Count Arco. In Vienna, though, Mozart had become
aware of some rich opportunities, and he decided to settle there as a
freelance performer and composer.
The quarrel with the archbishop went harder for Mozart because his
father sided against him. Hoping fervently that he would obediently
follow Colloredo back to Salzburg, Leopold exchanged intense letters
with his errant son, urging him to be reconciled with their employer;
but Wolfgang passionately defended his intention to pursue an
independent career in Vienna. The debate ended when Mozart was
dismissed, freeing him from the demands of an oppressive employer and of
an over-solicitous father. Solomon characterizes Mozart’s resignation
as a “revolutionary step”, and it greatly altered the course of his
life.
Early Vienna years
Mozart’s new career in Vienna began well. He performed often as a
pianist, notably in a competition before the Emperor with
Muzio Clementi
on 24 December 1781, and he soon “had established himself as the finest keyboard player in
Vienna”. He also prospered as a composer, and in 1782 completed the opera
Die Entführung aus dem Serail
(“The Abduction from the Seraglio”), which premiered on 16 July 1782 to
enormous acclaim. The work was soon being performed “throughout
German-speaking Europe”, and fully established Mozart’s reputation as a composer.
Near the height of his quarrels with Colloredo, Mozart moved in with
the Weber family, who had moved to Vienna from Mannheim. The father,
Fridolin, had died, and the Webers were now taking in lodgers to make
ends meet. Aloysia, who had earlier rejected Mozart’s suit, was now married to the
actor
Joseph Lange , and Mozart’s interest shifted to the third
daughter,
Constanze . The couple were married on 4
August 1782, eventually securing Leopold’s “grudging consent”. In the marriage contract, Constanze “assigns to her bridegroom five
hundred gulden which […] the latter has promised to augment with one
thousand gulden”, with the total “to pass to the survivor”. Further, all
joint acquisitions during the marriage were to remain the common
property of both.
The couple had six children (although only two survived infancy):
Raimund Leopold (17 June – 19 August 1783)
Karl Thomas Mozart
(21 September 1784 –
31 October 1858)
Johann Thomas Leopold (18 October – 15 November 1786)
Theresia Constanzia Adelheid Friedericke Maria Anna (27 December
1787 – 29 June 1788)
Anna Maria (died soon after birth, 25 December 1789)
Franz Xaver Wolfgang Mozart
(26
July 1791 – 29 July 1844)
In the course of 1782 and 1783 Mozart became intimately acquainted
with the work of
Johann Sebastian Bach
and
George Frideric Handel
as a result of the
influence of
Gottfried van Swieten , who owned many
manuscripts of the
Baroque
masters. Mozart’s study of these
scores inspired compositions in Baroque style, and later had a powerful
influence on his own personal musical language: for example in
fugal
passages in
Die Zauberflöte
(“The Magic Flute”) and
the finale of
Symphony No. 41 .
In 1783, Wolfgang and Constanze visited his family in Salzburg.
Leopold and Nannerl were, at best, only polite to Constanze; but the
visit at least prompted the composition of one of Mozart’s great
liturgical pieces, the
Mass in C
minor . Though not completed, it was premiered in Salzburg, with
Constanze singing a solo part.
Mozart met
Joseph Haydn
in Vienna, and the two composers
became friends (see
Haydn and Mozart ). When Haydn visited Vienna, they sometimes
played together in an impromptu
string quartet . Mozart’s
six quartets dedicated to Haydn
(K. 387, K. 421, K. 428, K. 458, K. 464, and K. 465) date from the
period 1782 to 1785, and amount to a carefully considered response to
Haydn’s
Opus 33
set from
1781. He stood in awe of Mozart, whose sister recorded that in 1781
Haydn told the visiting Leopold: “I tell you before God, and as an
honest man, your son is the greatest composer known to me by person and
repute, he has taste and what is more the greatest skill in
composition.”
From 1782 to 1785 Mozart mounted concerts with himself as soloist,
presenting three or four new piano concertos in each season. Since space
in the theaters was scarce, he booked unconventional venues: a large
room in the Trattnerhof (an apartment building); and the ballroom of the
Mehlgrube (a restaurant). The concerts were very popular, and the concertos he premiered at them
are still firm fixtures in the repertoire. Solomon writes that during
this period Mozart created “a harmonious connection between an eager
composer-performer and a delighted audience, which was given the
opportunity of witnessing the transformation and perfection of a major
musical genre”.
With substantial returns from his concerts and elsewhere, he and
Constanze adopted a rather plush lifestyle. They moved to an expensive
apartment, with a yearly rent of 460 florins. Mozart also bought a fine
fortepiano
from
Anton Walter
for about 900 florins, and a
billiard
table for about 300. The Mozarts sent their son
Karl Thomas
to an expensive boarding school, and kept servants. Saving was therefore impossible, and the short
period of financial success did nothing to soften the hardship the
Mozarts were later to experience.
On 14 December 1784, Mozart became a
Freemason ,
admitted to the lodge Zur Wohltätigkeit (“Beneficence”). Freemasonry played an important role in the remainder of Mozart’s life:
he attended many meetings, a number of his friends were Masons, and on
various occasions he composed Masonic music. (See
Mozart and Freemasonry .)
1786–1787:
Return to opera
Despite the great success of
Die Entführung aus dem Serail ,
Mozart did little operatic writing for the next four years, producing
only two unfinished works and the one-act
Der Schauspieldirektor . He focused instead
on his career as a piano soloist and writer of concertos. However,
around the end of 1785, Mozart moved away from keyboard writing and began
his famous operatic collaboration with the
librettist
Lorenzo Da Ponte . 1786 saw the successful premiere of
The Marriage of Figaro
in Vienna. Its
reception in
Prague
later in the year was even warmer,
and this led to a second collaboration with Da Ponte: the opera
Don
Giovanni , which premiered in October 1787 to acclaim in Prague,
and also met with success in Vienna in 1788. The two are esteemed among
Mozart’s most important works and are mainstays of the operatic
repertoire today, though at their premieres their musical complexity
caused difficulty for both listeners and performers. These developments
were not witnessed by the composer’s father, as Leopold had died on 28
May 1787.
In December 1787 Mozart finally obtained a steady post under
aristocratic patronage. Emperor
Joseph II
appointed him as his
“chamber composer”, a post that had fallen vacant the previous month on
the death of
Gluck . It was a part-time
appointment, paying just 800 florins per year, and only required Mozart
to compose dances for the annual balls in the
Redoutensaal . Mozart complained to
Constanze that the pay was “too much for what I do, too little for what I
could do”. However, even this modest income became important to Mozart when hard
times arrived. Court records show that Joseph’s aim was to keep the
esteemed composer from leaving Vienna in pursuit of better prospects.
In 1787 the young
Ludwig van Beethoven
spent two weeks in Vienna,
hoping to study with Mozart. The evidence concerning this time is
conflicting, and at least three hypotheses are in play: that Mozart
heard Beethoven play and praised him; that Mozart rejected Beethoven as a
student; and that they never even met. (See
Mozart and Beethoven .)
1788–1790
Toward the end of the decade, Mozart’s circumstances worsened. Around
1786 he had ceased to appear frequently in public concerts, and his
income shrank. This was a difficult time for all musicians in Vienna because Austria
was
at war , and both the general
level of prosperity and the ability of the aristocracy to support music
had declined.
By mid-1788, Mozart and his family had moved from central Vienna to
the suburb of
Alsergrund . Although it has been thought that Mozart reduced his rental expenses,
recent research shows that by moving to the suburb Mozart had certainly
not reduced his expenses (as claimed in his letter to
Puchberg ), but merely increased the housing space at
his disposal. Mozart began to borrow money, most often from his friend and fellow
Mason
Michael Puchberg ; “a pitiful sequence
of letters pleading for loans” survives. Maynard Solomon and others have suggested that Mozart was suffering
from depression, and it seems that his output slowed. Major works of the period include the last three symphonies (Nos.  39 ,
40 , and
41 , all from 1788, and the last of
the three Da Ponte operas,
Così fan tutte , premiered in 1790.
Around this time Mozart made long journeys hoping to improve his
fortunes: to
Leipzig ,
Dresden ,
and Berlin in the spring of 1789 (see
Mozart’s Berlin journey ), and to
Frankfurt ,
Mannheim , and other German cities in 1790. The
trips produced only isolated success and did not relieve the family’s
financial distress.
1791
Mozart’s last year was, until his final illness struck, a time of
great productivity—and by some accounts a time of personal recovery. He composed a great deal, including some of his most admired works: the
opera
The Magic Flute , the final piano
concerto ( K. 595 in B-flat ), the
Clarinet Concerto
K. 622, the
last in his great series of string quintets ( K. 614 in E-flat ), the motet
Ave verum corpus
K. 618, and the
unfinished
Requiem
K. 626.
Mozart’s financial situation, a source of extreme anxiety in 1790,
finally began to improve. Although the evidence is inconclusive it appears that wealthy patrons in Hungary and Amsterdam pledged
annuities to Mozart, in return for the occasional composition. He
probably also benefited from the sale of dance music written in his role
as Imperial chamber composer. Mozart no longer borrowed large sums from Puchberg, and made a start on
paying off his debts.
He experienced great satisfaction in the public success of some of
his works, notably
The Magic Flute
(performed many times in the
short period between its premiere and Mozart’s death) and the Little Masonic Cantata K. 623, premiered on 15 November 1791.
Final illness
and death
Mozart fell ill while in Prague for the premiere on 6 September of
his opera
La clemenza di Tito , written in 1791
on commission for the Emperor’s coronation festivities. He was able to continue his professional functions for some time, and
conducted the premiere of
The Magic Flute
on 30 September. The illness intensified
on 20 November, at which point Mozart became bedridden, suffering from
swelling, pain, and vomiting.
Mozart was nursed in his final illness by Constanze and her youngest
sister Sophie, and attended by the family doctor, Thomas Franz Closset.
It is clear that he was mentally occupied with the task of finishing his
Requiem . However, the evidence that he
actually dictated passages to his student
Süssmayr
is very slim.
Mozart died at 1 a.m. on 5 December 1791 at the age of 35. The
New Grove
gives a
matter-of-fact description of his funeral:
Mozart was buried in a common grave, in accordance with contemporary
Viennese custom, at the St Marx cemetery outside the city on 7 December.
If, as later reports say, no mourners attended, that too is consistent
with Viennese burial customs at the time; later Jahn (1856) wrote that
Salieri, Süssmayr, van Swieten and two other musicians were present. The
tale of a storm and snow is false; the day was calm and mild.
The cause of Mozart’s death cannot be known with certainty. The
official record has it as “hitziges Frieselfieber” (“severe miliary
fever”, referring to a rash that looks like millet seeds), a description
that does not suffice to identify the cause as it would be diagnosed in
modern medicine. Dozens of theories have been proposed, including
trichinosis ,
influenza ,
mercury poisoning , and a rare kidney ailment. The
practice of
bleeding
medical patients, common at that time,
is also cited as a contributing factor. The most widely accepted
version, however, is that he died of acute
rheumatic fever ; he is known to have had three or even four
attacks of it since his childhood, and this disease has a tendency to
recur, with increasingly serious consequences each time, such as rampant
infection and damage to the heart valves. A 2009 paper suggested that Mozart may have died from acute
nephritic syndrome
arising from a
streptococcus
infection.
Mozart’s sparse funeral did not reflect his standing with the public
as a composer: memorial services and concerts in Vienna and Prague were
well attended. Indeed, in the period immediately after his death
Mozart’s reputation rose substantially: Solomon describes an
“unprecedented wave of enthusiasm” for his work; biographies were written (first by
Schlichtegroll ,
Niemetschek , and
Nissen ; see
Biographies of Mozart ); and publishers
vied to produce complete editions of his works.
Appearance
and character
Mozart’s physical appearance was described by tenor
Michael Kelly , in his
Reminiscences :
“a remarkable small man, very thin and pale, with a profusion of fine,
fair hair of which he was rather vain”. As his early biographer
Niemetschek
wrote, “there was nothing special
about [his] physique. […] He was small and his countenance, except for
his large intense eyes, gave no signs of his genius.” His facial
complexion was pitted, a reminder of his
childhood case of smallpox . He loved elegant clothing.
Kelly remembered him at a rehearsal: “[He] was on the stage with his
crimson
pelisse
and gold-laced
cocked hat , giving the time
of the music to the orchestra.” Of his voice Constanze later wrote that
it “was a tenor, rather soft in speaking and delicate in singing, but
when anything excited him, or it became necessary to exert it, it was
both powerful and energetic”.
Mozart usually worked long and hard, finishing compositions at a
tremendous pace as deadlines approached. He often made sketches and
drafts, though unlike Beethoven’s these are mostly not preserved,
Constanze having sought to destroy them after his death.
See:
Mozart’s compositional method .
He was raised a
Roman Catholic , and remained a loyal member of the Church
throughout his life; see:
Mozart and Roman Catholicism .
Mozart lived at the center of the Viennese musical world, and knew a
great number and variety of people: fellow musicians, theatrical
performers, fellow transplanted Salzburgers, and many aristocrats,
including some acquaintance with the Emperor
Joseph II . Solomon considers
his three closest friends to have been Gottfried von Jacquin, Count
August Hatzfeld, and Sigmund Barisani; the many others included his
older colleague
Joseph Haydn , singers
Franz Xaver Gerl
and
Benedikt Schack , and the horn player
Joseph Leutgeb . Leutgeb and Mozart carried on a curious
kind of friendly mockery, often with Leutgeb as the butt of Mozart’s
practical jokes .
He enjoyed
billiards
and dancing (see:
Mozart and dance ), and kept pets: a canary, a
starling , a dog, and also a horse for recreational riding.
Particularly in his youth, Mozart had a striking fondness for
scatological
humor, which is preserved in his many surviving letters, notably those
written to his cousin
Maria Anna Thekla Mozart
around
1777–1778, but also in his correspondence with his sister Nannerl and
his parents. Mozart even wrote scatological music, the
canon
“ Leck mich im Arsch ” (literally “Lick me in the arse”,
sometimes idiomatically translated “Kiss my arse” or “Get stuffed”)
K. 231.
Works, musical style, and
innovations
Style
Mozart’s music, like
Haydn ‘s,
stands as an archetype of the Classical style. At the time he began
composing, European music was dominated by the
style galant :
a reaction against the highly evolved intricacy of the
Baroque .
But progressively, and in large part at the hands of Mozart himself,
the
contrapuntal
complexities of the late Baroque
emerged once more, moderated and disciplined by new
forms ,
and adapted to a new aesthetic and social milieu. Mozart was a
versatile composer, and wrote in every major genre, including
symphony ,
opera ,
the solo
concerto , chamber music including
string quartet
and
string quintet , and the piano
sonata .
These forms were not new; but Mozart advanced the technical
sophistication and emotional reach of them all. He almost
single-handedly developed and popularized the Classical
piano concerto . He wrote a great deal of
religious music , including large-scale
masses : but also many dances,
divertimenti ,
serenades ,
and other forms of light entertainment.
The central traits of the Classical style are all present in Mozart’s
music. Clarity, balance, and transparency are the hallmarks of his
work, but any simplistic notion of its delicacy masks the exceptional
power of his finest masterpieces, such as the
Piano Concerto No. 24
in C
minor, K. 491, the
Symphony No. 40
in G minor, K. 550,
and the opera
Don Giovanni .
Charles
Rosen
makes the point forcefully:
It is only through recognizing the violence and sensuality at the
center of Mozart’s work that we can make a start towards a comprehension
of his structures and an insight into his magnificence. In a
paradoxical way, Schumann’s superficial characterization of the G minor
Symphony can help us to see Mozart’s daemon more steadily. In all of
Mozart’s supreme expressions of suffering and terror, there is something
shockingly voluptuous.
Especially during his last decade, Mozart exploited
chromatic
harmony to a degree rare at the time, with remarkable assurance and to
great artistic effect.
Mozart always had a gift for absorbing and adapting valuable features
of others’ music. His travels certainly helped in the forging of a
unique compositional language. In London as a child, he met
J.C. Bach
and heard his music. In Paris, Mannheim,
and Vienna he met with many other compositional influences, as well as
the avant-garde capabilities of the
Mannheim orchestra . In Italy he encountered the
Italian overture
and
opera
buffa , both of which deeply affected the evolution of his own
practice. Both in London and Italy, the galant style was in the
ascendent: simple, light music with a mania for
cadencing ; an emphasis on tonic, dominant, and subdominant
to the exclusion of other harmonies; symmetrical phrases; and clearly
articulated partitions in the overall form of movements. Some of Mozart’s early symphonies are
Italian overtures , with three movements running into each
other; many are
homotonal
(all three movements having the same key
signature, with the slow middle movement being in the
relative
minor ). Others mimic the works of J.C. Bach, and others show the
simple
rounded binary forms
turned out by Viennese composers.
As Mozart matured, he progressively incorporated more features
adapted from the Baroque. For example, the
Symphony No. 29 in A Major
K. 201
has a contrapuntal main theme in its first movement, and experimentation
with irregular phrase lengths. Some of his quartets from 1773 have
fugal finales: probably influenced by Haydn, who had included three such
finales in his recently published Opus 20 set. The influence of the
Sturm und Drang
(“Storm and Stress”) period in music,
with its brief foreshadowing of the
Romantic
era
to come, is evident in the music of both composers at that
time. Mozart’s
Symphony No. 25 in G minor
K. 183
is another excellent example.
Mozart would sometimes switch his focus between operas and
instrumental music. He produced operas in each of the prevailing styles:
opera
buffa , such as
The Marriage of Figaro ,
Don
Giovanni , and
Così fan tutte ;
opera
seria , such as
Idomeneo ; and
Singspiel ,
of which
Die Zauberflöte
is the most famous
example by any composer. In his later operas he employed subtle changes
in instrumentation, orchestral texture, and
tone color ,
for emotional depth and to mark dramatic shifts. Here his advances in
opera and instrumental composing interacted: his increasingly
sophisticated use of the orchestra in the symphonies and concertos
influenced his operatic orchestration, and his developing subtlety in
using the orchestra to psychological effect in his operas was in turn
reflected in his later non-operatic compositions.
Influence
Mozart’s most famous pupil, whom the Mozarts took into their Vienna
home for two years as a child, was probably
Johann Nepomuk Hummel , a transitional figure between
Classical and Romantic eras.
More important is the influence Mozart had on composers of later
generations. Ever since the surge in his reputation after his death,
studying his scores has been a standard part of the training of
classical musicians.
Ludwig van Beethoven , Mozart’s junior
by fourteen years, esteemed and was deeply influenced by his work, with
which he was acquainted as a teenager. He is thought to have played in
the court orchestra at
Bonn
in performance of Mozart’s operas, and he traveled to Vienna in 1787 hoping to study the older composer
(see above). Some of Beethoven’s works have direct models in comparable
works by Mozart, and he wrote
cadenzas
( WoO
58) to
Mozart’s D minor piano concerto
K. 466 .
A number of composers have paid homage to Mozart by writing sets of
variations
on his themes. Beethoven wrote
four such sets (Op. 66, WoO 28, WoO 40, WoO 46). Others include
Frédéric Chopin ‘s
Variations for Piano
and Orchestra
on “Là ci darem la mano” from
Don
Giovanni
(1827) and
Max
Reger ‘s
Variations and Fugue
on a Theme by Mozart
(1914), based on the variation theme in the
piano sonata
K. 331 .
Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky
wrote his
Orchestral Suite No. 4 in G,
“Mozartiana”
(1887),
as a tribute to Mozart.
Köchel
catalogue
\For unambiguous identification of works by Mozart, a
Köchel
catalogue number
is used. This is a unique number assigned, in
regular chronological order, to every one of his known works. A work is
referenced by the abbreviation “K.” followed by this number. The first
edition of the catalogue was completed in 1862 by
Ludwig von Köchel . It has
repeatedly been updated since then, as scholarly research improves our
knowledge of the dates and authenticity of individual works.
Comment
Frédéric Chopin
Filed under:
Classical Music
—
1 Comment
April 9, 2010
Frédéric François Chopin , in Polish
Fryderyk Franciszek
Chopin
(the
surname
is pronounced
[ʃɔpɛ̃]
in French, and
usually
/ˈʃoʊpæn/
in English, and
is sometimes written
Szopen
in Polish; 1 March 1810 – 17 October 1849), was a
Polish
composer
and
virtuoso
pianist. He is considered one of the great masters of
Romantic music .
Chopin was born in the village of
Żelazowa Wola , in the
Duchy of Warsaw , to a French- expatriate
father and Polish mother. He was considered a
child-prodigy
pianist. At the age of 20, on 2 November 1830, he left
Warsaw
for
Austria, intending to go on to Italy. The outbreak of the Polish
November Uprising
27 days later, and its subsequent
suppression by the
Russian Empire , led to his becoming one of
many expatriates of the Polish
Great Emigration .
In Paris, Chopin made a comfortable living as a composer and piano
teacher, while giving few public performances. Though an ardent Polish
patriot , in France he used the French versions of his
given
names
and traveled on a French passport, possibly to avoid having to
rely on Imperial Russian documents. After ill-fated romantic involvements with Polish women, from 1837 to
1847 he had a turbulent relationship with the French novelist Aurore
Dupin, better known by her pseudonym,
George
Sand . For the greater part of his life Chopin suffered from poor
health; he died in Paris in 1849, aged thirty-nine, of
pulmonary
tuberculosis .
The great majority of Chopin’s compositions were written for the piano
as
solo
instrument. Though technically demanding, they emphasize nuance and expressive depth rather than sheer
virtuosity. Chopin invented
musical
forms
such as the
instrumental ballade
and was responsible for major innovations in the
piano
sonata ,
mazurka ,
waltz ,
nocturne ,
polonaise ,
étude ,
impromptu
and
prélude .
Life
Childhood
Chopin’s father,
Nicolas Chopin , a Frenchman from
Lorraine , had
emigrated to Poland in 1787 at the age of sixteen and had served in
Poland’s National Guard during the
Kościuszko Uprising . He subsequently
tutored children of the
aristocracy , including the
Skarbeks ,
whose poorer relative, Justyna Krzyżanowska, he married. The wedding took place at the 16th-century parish church in
Brochów
on 2 June 1806.
(Justyna’s brother would become the father of American
Union
General
Włodzimierz Krzyżanowski ).
Frédéric Chopin was the couple’s second child and only son. He was
born at
Żelazowa Wola , fifty kilometres west of
Warsaw, in what was then the Napoleonic
Duchy of Warsaw . The parish record of the baptism
(discovered in 1892) gives 22 February 1810 as his date of birth, but the true date is widely believed to be 1 March, the date which the
composer and his close family usually gave. He was baptized on Easter Sunday, 23 April 1810, in the same church in
Brochów where his parents had married. The parish register cites his
given
names
in the Latin form
Fridericus Franciscus ; in Polish he was called
Fryderyk Franciszek .
In October 1810, when Chopin was seven months old, the family moved
to Warsaw. His father accepted an offer from the celebrated
lexicographer
Samuel
Linde , to teach
French
at a
secondary school , the
Warsaw Lyceum .
The school was housed in the
Saxon
Palace , and the Chopin family lived on the palace grounds. In 1817
Grand Duke Constantine
requisitioned the Saxon Palace for military purposes, and the Lyceum was
moved to the
Kazimierz Palace , on the grounds of present-day
Warsaw University . The family lived
in a spacious second-floor apartment in an adjacent building. Fryderyk
Chopin attended the Warsaw Lyceum from 1823 to 1826.
The Polish spirit, culture and language pervaded the Chopins’ home,
and as a result the son would never, even in Paris, perfectly master the
French language . Louis Enault, a biographer, borrowed George Sand’s phrase to describe
Chopin as being “more Polish than Poland”.
Others in Chopin’s family were musically inclined. Chopin’s father
played the flute and violin; his mother played the piano and gave
lessons to boys in the elite boarding house that the Chopins maintained.
As a result Fryderyk early became conversant with music in its various
forms.
Józef Sikorski, a musician and Chopin’s contemporary, recalls in his
Memoirs
about Chopin
( Wspomnienie Chopina ) that, as a child, Chopin
wept with emotion when his mother played the piano. By six, he was
already trying to reproduce what he heard or to make up new melodies. He received his earliest piano lessons not from his mother but from his
older sister Ludwika (in English, “Louise”).
Chopin’s first professional piano tutor, from 1816 to 1822, was the
Czech ,
Wojciech Żywny . Though the youngster’s skills soon surpassed his teacher’s, Chopin
later spoke highly of Żywny. Seven-year old “little Chopin” ( Szopenek )
began giving public concerts that soon prompted comparisons with
Mozart
as a child and with
Beethoven .
That same year, seven-year old Chopin composed two
Polonaises ,
in
G
minor
and
B-flat major . The first was published in the
engraving workshop of Father Izydor Józef Cybulski (composer, engraver,
director of an organists’ school, and one of the few music publishers in
Poland); the second survives as a manuscript prepared by Mikołaj
Chopin. These small works were said to rival not only the popular
polonaises
of leading Warsaw composers, but the famous
Polonaises
of
Michał Kleofas Ogiński . A substantial
development of melodic and harmonic invention and of piano technique
was shown in Chopin’s next known
Polonaise , in
A-flat
major , which the young artist offered in 1821 as a
name-day
gift to
Żywny .
About this time, at the age of eleven, Chopin performed in the
presence of
Alexander I ,
Tsar
of
Russia, who was in Warsaw, opening the
Sejm
(Polish parliament).
As a child, Chopin showed an intelligence that was said to absorb
everything and make use of everything for its development. He early
showed remarkable abilities in observation and sketching, a keen wit and
sense of humor, and an uncommon talent for
mimicry . A story from his school years recounts a teacher being pleasantly
surprised by a superb portrait that Chopin had drawn of him in class.
In those years, Chopin was sometimes invited to the
Belweder
Palace
as playmate to the son of
Russian Poland’s ruler ,
Grand Duke
Constantine Pavlovich of Russia , and charmed the irascible duke with
his piano-playing. (A few years later, the Grand Duke would flee the Belweder, just in the
nick of time, at the very opening of the
November 1830 Uprising , escaping the Polish officer cadets
who rode up through the
Royal Baths Park
from their barracks in an effort to capture
him.)
Julian Ursyn Niemcewicz
attested to
“Little Chopin’s” popularity in his dramatic
eclogue ,
“ Nasze Verkehry ” (“Our Intercourse,” 1818), in which the
eight-year old Chopin features as a motif in the dialogues.
While in his mid-teens, during vacations spent at the village of
Szafarnia
(where
he was a guest of Juliusz Dziewanowski, father of schoolmate Dominik
Dziewanowski), Chopin was exposed to
folk melodies
that he would later transmute into
original compositions. His letters home from Szafarnia (the famous
“Szafarnia Courier” letters) amused his family with their
spoofing
of the Warsaw newspapers and demonstrated the youngster’s literary
talent.
An anecdote describes how Chopin helped quiet rowdy children by first
improvising a story and then lulling them to sleep with a
berceuse
( lullaby )
— after which he woke everyone with an ear-piercing
chord .
Education
Chopin, tutored at home until he was thirteen, enrolled in the Warsaw
Lyceum in 1823, but continued studying piano under Żywny’s direction.
In 1825, in a performance of the work of
Ignaz Moscheles , he entranced the audience with his free
improvisation, and was acclaimed the “best pianist in Warsaw.”
In the autumn of 1826, Chopin began a three-year course of studies
with the Polish composer
Józef Elsner
at the
Warsaw Conservatory , which was
affiliated with the
University of Warsaw
(hence Chopin is
counted among that
university’s alumni ). Chopin’s first
contact with Elsner may have been as early as 1822; it is certain that
Elsner was giving Chopin informal guidance by 1823 and, in 1826, Chopin
officially commenced the study of
music
theory ,
figured bass , and
composition
with Elsner.
In year-end evaluations, Elsner noted Chopin’s “remarkable talent”
and “musical genius.” As had Żywny, Elsner observed, rather than
influenced or directed, the development of Chopin’s blossoming talent.
Elsner’s teaching style was based on his reluctance to “constrain”
Chopin with “narrow, academic, outdated” rules, and on his determination
to allow the young artist to mature “according to the laws of his own
nature.”
In 1827, the family moved to lodgings just across the street from
Warsaw University, in the
Krasiński Palace
at
Krakowskie Przedmieście 5
(in what
is now the
Warsaw Academy
of Fine Arts ). Chopin would live there until he left Warsaw in 1830.
(In 1837-39, artist and poet
Cyprian Norwid
would study painting there; later he would
pen the poem, “Chopin’s Piano,” about Russian troops’
1863
defenestration
of the instrument.)
In 1829, Polish portraitist
Ambroży Mieroszewski
executed a set of
five portraits of Chopin family members (the youngest daughter, Emilia,
had died in 1827): Chopin’s parents, his elder sister Ludwika, younger
sister Izabela, and, in the first known portrait of him, the composer
himself. (The originals perished in World War II; only black-and-white
photographs remain.) In 1913, historian Édouard Ganche would write that
this painting of the precocious composer showed “a youth threatened by
tuberculosis. His skin is very white, he has a prominent
Adam’s apple
and sunken cheeks, even
his ears show a form characteristic of
consumptives .”
Chopin’s younger sister Emilia had already died of tuberculosis at the
age of fourteen, and their father would succumb to the same disease in
1844.
According to
musicologist
and Chopin biographer
Zdzisław Jachimecki , comparison of the
juvenile Chopin with any earlier composer is difficult because of the
originality of the works that Chopin was composing already in the first
half of his life. At a comparable age,
Bach , Mozart and Beethoven had still been
apprentices, while Chopin was perceived by peers and audiences to be
already a master who was pointing the path of the coming age.
Chopin himself never gave thematic titles to his instrumental works,
but identified them simply by
genre
and number. His compositions were, however, often inspired by emotional and sensual
experiences in his own life. One of his first such inspirations was a
beautiful young singing student at the Warsaw Conservatory and later a
singer at the Warsaw Opera,
Konstancja Gładkowska .
In letters to his friend Tytus Woyciechowski, Chopin indicated which of
his works, and even which of their passages, were influenced by his
erotic transports. His artist’s soul was also enriched by friendships
with such leading lights of Warsaw’s artistic and intellectual world as
Maurycy Mochnacki ,
Józef Bohdan Zaleski
and
Julian Fontana .
Young man
In September 1828, Chopin struck out for the wider world in the company
of a family friend, the zoologist
Feliks Jarocki , who planned to attend a
scientific convention in Berlin. There, Chopin enjoyed several
unfamiliar operas directed by
Gaspare Spontini , went to several concerts, and saw
Carl Friedrich Zelter ,
Felix Mendelssohn
and other celebrities. On his return
trip, he was the guest of Prince
Antoni Radziwiłł , governor of the
Grand Duchy of Posen
— himself an accomplished
composer and aspiring cellist. For the Prince and his piano-playing
daughter Wanda, Chopin composed his
Polonaise for Cello and
Piano, in C major, Op. 3.
Back in Warsaw, in 1829, Chopin heard
Niccolò Paganini
play and met the German pianist and
composer
Johann Nepomuk Hummel . In August the
same year, three weeks after completing his studies at the Warsaw
Conservatory, Chopin made a brilliant debut in
Vienna . He
gave two piano concerts and received many favorable reviews — in
addition to some that criticized the “small tone” that he drew from the
piano. This was followed by a concert, in December 1829, at the Warsaw
Merchants’ Club, where Chopin premièred his
Piano Concerto No. 2 in F minor ,
Op. 21, and by his first performance, on 17 March 1830, at the
National Theater , of his
Piano Concerto No. 1 in E minor ,
Op. 11. In this period he also began writing his first
Études
(1829–1832).
Chopin’s successes as a performer and composer opened the
professional door for him to western Europe, and on 2 November 1830,
seen off by friends and admirers, with a ring from Konstancja Gładkowska
on his finger and carrying with him a silver cup containing soil from
his native land, Chopin set out, writes Jachimecki, “into the wide
world, with no very clearly defined aim, forever.”
Later that month, in Warsaw, the
November Uprising
broke out, and Chopin’s friend and
traveling companion, the future industrialist and art patron
Tytus Woyciechowski , returned to
Poland to enlist. Chopin, now alone in
Vienna ,
writes Jachimecki, “afflicted by nostalgia, disappointed in his hopes of
giving concerts and publishing, matured and acquired spiritual depth.
From a romantic… poet… he grew into an inspired national bard who
intuited the past, present and future of his country. Only now, at this
distance, did he see all of Poland from the proper perspective, and
understand what was great and truly beautiful in her, the tragedy and
heroism of her vicissitudes.”
When in September 1831 Chopin learned, while traveling from Vienna to
Paris, that the uprising had been crushed, he poured “profanities and
blasphemies” in his native
Polish language
into the pages of a little journal that he
kept secret to the end of his life. These outcries of a tormented heart
found musical expression in his
Scherzo in B minor, Op. 20 , and his
“Revolutionary Étude”, in C
minor, Op. 10, No. 12 .
Paris
Chopin arrived in Paris in late September 1831, still uncertain
whether he would settle there for good. With a view to easing his entry into the Parisian musical community, he
began taking lessons from the prominent pianist
Friedrich Kalkbrenner . In February
1832 Chopin gave a concert that garnered universal admiration. The
influential musicologist and critic
François-Joseph Fétis
wrote in
Revue
musicale : “Here is a young man who, taking nothing as a model, has
found, if not a complete renewal of piano music, then in any case part
of what has long been sought in vain, namely, an extravagance of
original ideas that are unexampled anywhere…” Only three months earlier, in December 1831,
Robert Schumann , in reviewing Chopin’s
Variations on
“La ci darem la mano” , Op. 2 (from Mozart’s opera
Don
Giovanni ), had written: “Hats off, gentlemen! A genius.”
After his Paris concert
début
in February 1832, Chopin
realised that his light-handed keyboard technique was not optimal for
large concert spaces. However, later that year he was introduced to the
wealthy
Rothschild
banking family, whose patronage
opened doors for him to other private salons.
In Paris, Chopin found artists and other distinguished company, as
well as opportunities to exercise his talents and achieve celebrity, and
before long he was earning a handsome income teaching piano to affluent
students from all over Europe. He formed friendships with
Hector Berlioz ,
Franz
Liszt ,
Vincenzo Bellini ,
Ferdinand Hiller ,
Felix Mendelssohn ,
Heinrich Heine ,
Eugène Delacroix , Prince
Adam Jerzy Czartoryski ,
Alfred de Vigny , and
Charles-Valentin Alkan .
In Paris, Chopin seldom performed publicly. In later years he
generally gave a single annual concert at the Salle Pleyel, a venue that
seated three hundred. He played more frequently at
salons
— social gatherings of the aristocracy and
artistic and literary elite — but preferred playing at his own Paris
apartment for small groups of friends. His precarious health prevented
his touring extensively as a traveling
virtuoso ,
and beyond playing once in
Rouen , he seldom ventured out of the capital. His high income from teaching and composing freed him from the strains
of concert-giving, to which he had an innate repugnance.
Arthur Hedley
has observed that “As a pianist Chopin was
unique in acquiring a reputation of the highest order on the basis of a
minimum of public appearances—few more than thirty in the course of his
lifetime.”
In 1835 Chopin went to
Carlsbad ,
where, for the last time in his life, he met with his parents. En route
through
Saxony
on his way back to Paris, he met old friends from Warsaw, the
Wodzińskis. He had made the acquaintance of their daughter Maria, now
sixteen, in Poland five years earlier, and fell in love with the
charming, artistically talented, intelligent young woman. The following year, in September 1836, upon returning to
Dresden
after having vacationed with the Wodzińskis at
Marienbad , Chopin proposed marriage to
Maria. She accepted, and her mother Countess Wodzińska approved in
principle, but Maria’s tender age and Chopin’s tenuous health (in the
winter of 1835–1836 he had been so ill that word had circulated in
Warsaw that he had died) forced an indefinite postponement of the
wedding. The engagement remained a secret to the world and never led to
the altar. Chopin finally placed the letters from Maria and her mother
in a large envelope, on which he wrote the Polish words
“Moja bieda”
(“My sorrow”).
Chopin’s feelings for Maria left their traces in his
Waltz in A-flat
major
“The Farewell Waltz”, Op. 69, No. 1, written on the morning of
his September departure from Dresden. On his return to Paris, he
composed the
Étude in F minor , the second
in the Op. 25 cycle, which he referred to as “a portrait of Maria’s
soul.” Along with this, he sent Maria seven songs that he had set to the
words of
Polish Romantic
poets
Stefan Witwicki ,
Józef Zaleski
and
Adam Mickiewicz .
After Chopin’s matrimonial plans ended, Polish countess
Delfina Potocka
appeared episodically in Chopin’s life as
muse and romantic interest. For her he composed his Waltz in D flat
major, Op. 64, No. 1 — the famous “ Minute
Waltz .”
During his years in Paris, Chopin participated in a small number of
public concerts. The list of the programs’ participants provides an idea
of the richness of Parisian artistic life during this period. Examples
include a concert on 23 March 1833, in which Chopin, Liszt and
Hiller
performed J. S. Bach’s concerto for three
harpsichords ;
and, on 3 March 1838, a concert in which Chopin, his pupil Adolphe
Gutman,
Alkan , and Alkan’s teacher Pierre
Joseph Zimmerman performed Alkan’s arrangement, for eight hands, of
Beethoven’s
7th symphony .
Chopin was also involved in the composition of Liszt’s
Hexaméron ; Chopin’s was
the sixth (and last) variation on
Bellini ‘s theme.
George Sand
In 1836, at a party hosted by Countess
Marie d’Agoult ,
mistress
of friend and fellow composer
Franz
Liszt , Chopin met French author and feminist Amandine Aurore
Lucille Dupin, the Baroness Dudevant, better known by her
pseudonym ,
George
Sand . Sand’s earlier romantic involvements had included
Jules
Sandeau ,
Prosper Mérimée ,
Alfred de Musset , Louis-Chrystosome Michel,
Charles
Didier , Pierre-François Bocage and
Félicien Mallefille .
Chopin initially felt an aversion for Sand. He declared to
Ferdinand Hiller : “What a repulsive woman
Sand is! But is she really a woman? I am inclined to doubt it.”
Sand, however, in a candid thirty-two page letter to Count Wojciech
Grzymała, a friend to both her and Chopin, admitted strong feelings for
the composer. In her letter she debated whether to abandon a current
affair in order to begin a relationship with Chopin, and attempted to
gauge the currency of his previous relationship with Maria Wodzińska,
which she did not intend to interfere with should it still exist. By the summer of 1838, Chopin’s and Sand’s involvement was an open
secret.
A notable episode in their time together was a turbulent and
miserable winter on
Majorca
(8 November 1838 to 13 February 1839), where
they, together with Sand’s two children, had gone in the hope of
improving Chopin’s deteriorating health. However, after discovering the
couple were not wed, the deeply religious people of Majorca became
inhospitable, [ citation needed ]
making
accommodations difficult to find; this compelled the foursome to take
lodgings in a scenic yet stark and cold former
Carthusian
monastery in
Valldemossa .
Chopin also had problems having his
Pleyel
piano
sent to him. It arrived from Paris on 20 December but was
held up by customs. (Chopin wrote on 28 December: “My piano has been
stuck at customs for 8 days… They demand such a huge sum of money to
release it that I can’t believe it.”) In the meantime Chopin had a
rickety rented piano on which he practiced and may have composed some
pieces.
On 3 December, he complained about his bad health and the
incompetence of the doctors in Majorca: “I have been sick as a dog
during these past two weeks. Three doctors have visited me. The first
said I was going to die; the second said I was breathing my last; and
the third said I was already dead.”
On 4 January 1839, George Sand agreed to pay 300 francs (half the
demanded amount) to have the Pleyel piano released from customs. It was
finally delivered on 5 January. From then on Chopin was able to use the
long-awaited instrument for almost five weeks, time enough to complete
some works: some
Preludes , Op. 28; a revision of the
Ballade No. 2, Op. 38; two Polonaises, Op. 40; the Scherzo No. 3, Op.
39; the Mazurka in E minor from Op. 41; and he probably revisited his
Sonata No. 2, Op. 35. The winter in Majorca is still considered one of
the most productive periods in Chopin’s life.
During that winter, the bad weather had such a serious effect on
Chopin’s health and chronic lung disease that, in order to save his
life, the entire party were compelled to leave the island. The beloved
French piano became an obstacle to a hasty escape. Nevertheless, George
Sand managed to sell it to a French couple (the Canuts), whose heirs are
the custodians of Chopin’s legacy on Majorca and of the Chopin
cell-room museum in Valldemossa.
The party of four went first to
Barcelona ,
then to
Marseille , where they stayed for a few months to
recover. In May 1839, they headed to Sand’s estate at
Nohant
for the summer. In autumn they returned to Paris, where initially they
lived apart; Chopin soon left his apartment at 5 rue Tronchet to move
into Sand’s house at 16 rue Pigalle. The four lived together at this
address from October 1839 to November 1842, while spending most summers
until 1846 at Nohant. In 1842, they moved to 80 rue Taitbout in the Square d’Orléans, living
in adjacent buildings.
It was around this time that we have evidence of Chopin’s playing an
instrument other than the piano. At the funeral of the tenor
Adolphe Nourrit , who had jumped to his death in
Naples
but
whose body was returned to Paris for burial, Chopin played an
organ
transcription of
Franz Schubert ‘s lied
Die Gestirne .
During the summers at Nohant, particularly in the years 1839-43,
Chopin found quiet but productive days during which he composed many
works. They included his great
Polonaise in A flat major ,
Op. 53, the “Heroic”, one of his most famous pieces. It is to Sand that
we owe the most compelling description of Chopin’s creative
processes—of the rise of his inspirations and of their painstaking
working-out, sometimes amid real torments, amid weeping and complaints,
with hundreds of changes in the initial concept, only to return to the
initial idea. She describes an evening with their friend
Delacroix
in attendance:
Chopin is at the piano, quite oblivious of the fact that anyone is
listening. He embarks on a sort of casual improvisation, then stops. ‘Go
on, go on,’ exclaims Delacroix, ‘That’s not the end!’ ‘It’s not even a
beginning. Nothing will come … nothing but reflections, shadows,
shapes that won’t stay fixed. I’m trying to find the right colour, but I
can’t even get the form …’ ‘You won’t find the one without the
other,’ says Delacroix, ‘and both will come together.’ ‘What if I find
nothing but moonlight?’ ‘Then you will have found the reflection of a
reflection.’ The idea seems to please the divine artist. He begins
again, without seeming to, so uncertain is the shape. Gradually quiet
colours begin to show, corresponding to the suave modulations sounding
in our ears. Suddenly the note of blue sings out, and the night is all
around us, azure and transparent. Light clouds take on fantastic shapes
and fill the sky. They gather about the moon which casts upon them great
opalescent discs, and wakes the sleeping colours. We dream of a summer
night, and sit there waiting for the song of the nightingale …
As the composer’s illness progressed, Sand gradually became less of a
lover and more of a nurse to Chopin, whom she called her “third child.”
But the nursing began to pall on her. In the years to come she would
keep up her friendship with Chopin, but she often gave vent to
affectionate impatience, at least in letters to third parties, in which
she referred to Chopin as a “child,” a “little angel,” a “sufferer” and a
“beloved little corpse.”
In 1845, as Chopin’s health continued to deteriorate, a serious
problem emerged in his relations with Sand. Those relations were further
soured in 1846 by problems involving her daughter Solange and the young
sculptor
Auguste Clésinger . In 1847 Sand published
her novel
Lucrezia Floriani , whose main characters — a rich
actress and a prince in weak health — could be interpreted as Sand and
Chopin; the story was uncomplimentary to Chopin, who could not have
missed the allusions as he helped Sand correct the
printer’s
galleys . In 1847 he did not visit Nohant. Mutual friends attempted
to reconcile them, but the composer was unyielding.
One of these friends was
mezzo-soprano
Pauline Viardot . Sand had based her 1843 novel
Consuelo
on Viardot, and the three had spent many
hours at Nohant. An outstanding
opera
singer, Viardot was also an excellent pianist who had initially wanted
the piano to be her career and had taken lessons with Liszt and
Anton
Reicha . Her friendship with Chopin was based on mutual artistic
esteem and similarity of temperament. The two had often played together; he had advised her on piano
technique and had assisted her in writing a series of songs based on the
melodies of his
mazurkas . He in turn had gained from
Viardot some first-hand knowledge of Spanish music.
The year 1847 brought to an end, without any dramatics or
formalities, the relations between Sand and Chopin that had lasted ten
years, since 1837.
Count Wojciech Grzymała, who had followed Chopin’s romance with
George Sand from the first day to the last, would later opine: “If he
had not had the misfortune of meeting G.S. [George Sand], who poisoned
his whole being, he would have lived to be
Cherubini ‘s age.” Chopin died at thirty-nine; his friend
Cherubini had died at Paris in 1842 at age eighty-one. The two composers repose four meters apart at
Père Lachaise Cemetery .
Final years
Chopin’s public popularity as a virtuoso waned, as did the number of
his pupils. In February 1848, he gave his last Paris concert. In April,
with the
Revolution of 1848
underway in
Paris, he left for London, where he performed at several concerts and at
numerous receptions in great houses.
Toward the end of the summer he went to Scotland, staying at the
castle ( Johnstone , in
Renfrewshire , near
Glasgow )
of his former pupil and great admirer Jane Wilhelmina Stirling and her
elder sister, the widowed Mrs. Katherine Erskine. Miss Stirling proposed
marriage to him; but Chopin, sensing that he was not long for this
world, set greater store by his freedom than by the prospect of living
on the generosity of a wife.
In late October 1848 in
Edinburgh ,
at the home of a Polish physician, Dr. Adam Łyszczyński, Chopin wrote out his last will and testament—”a kind of disposition to
be made of my stuff in the future, if I should drop dead somewhere,” he
wrote his friend Wojciech Grzymała. In his thoughts he was now
constantly with his mother and sisters, and conjured up for himself
scenes of his native land by playing his adaptations of its folk music
on cool Scottish evenings at Miss Stirling’s castle.
Chopin made his last public appearance on a concert platform at
London’s
Guildhall
on 16 November 1848, when, in a
final patriotic gesture, he played for the benefit of Polish refugees. His appearance on this occasion proved to be a well-intentioned
mistake, as most of the participants were more interested in the dancing
and refreshments than in Chopin’s piano artistry, which cost him much
effort and physical discomfort.
At the end of November, Chopin returned to Paris.
He passed the winter in unremitting illness, but in spite of it he
continued seeing friends and visited the ailing
Adam Mickiewicz , soothing the Polish poet’s nerves with
his playing. He no longer had the strength to give lessons, but he was
still keen to compose. He lacked money for the most essential expenses
and for his physicians. He had to sell off his more valuable furnishings
and belongings.
Death and funeral
Feeling ever more poorly, Chopin desired to have one of his family with
him. In June 1849 his sister Ludwika Jędrzejewicz, who had given him his
first piano lessons, agreed to come to Paris. He had lately taken up
residence in a very beautiful, sunny apartment at
Place Vendôme 12 . It was there, a few minutes before two o’clock on the morning of
Wednesday, 17 October 1849, that Chopin died. His death certificate stated the cause as
tuberculosis
(in 2008 this cause was questioned,
cystic fibrosis
being offered as an alternative
etiology ).
Later, many persons who had not been present at Chopin’s death would
claim to have been there. “Being present at Chopin’s death,” writes Tad
Szulc, “seemed to grant one historical and social cachet. “Those actually around his bed appear to have included his sister
Ludwika, Princess Marcelina Czartoryska, George Sand’s daughter Solange
and her husband
Auguste Clésinger , and Chopin’s friend and
former pupil Adolf Gutmann, his friend Thomas Albrecht, and his
confidant, Polish Catholic priest Father Aleksander Jełowicki.
Later that morning, Clésinger made Chopin’s
death
mask
and casts of his hands. Before the funeral, pursuant to
Chopin’s dying wish (which stemmed from a
fear of being buried alive ), [ citation needed ]
his
heart was removed and preserved in alcohol (perhaps brandy) to be
returned to his homeland, as he had requested. His sister later took it in an urn to Warsaw, where it was sealed
within a pillar of the
Holy Cross Church
on
Krakowskie Przedmieście , beneath an
inscription from
Matthew
VI:21: “For where your treasure is, there will
your heart be also.” Chopin’s heart has remained there — except for a
period during
World War II , when it was removed for
safekeeping — within the church that was rebuilt after its virtual
destruction during the 1944
Warsaw Uprising . The church stands only a short distance
from Chopin’s last Polish residence, the
Krasiński Palace
at
Krakowskie Przedmieście 5 .
The funeral, to be held at the
Church of the Madeleine
in Paris, was
delayed almost two weeks, until 30 October. Chopin had requested that
Mozart’s
Requiem
be sung. The
Requiem
had
major parts for female voices, but the Church of the Madeleine had never
permitted female singers in its choir. The Church finally relented, but
on condition that the female singers remain behind a black velvet
curtain. The soloists in the
Requiem
included the bass
Luigi Lablache
— who had sung the same work at Haydn’s
funeral and had also sung at
Bellini ‘s funeral — and Chopin’s and George Sand’s friend,
the mezzo-soprano
Pauline Viardot . Also played were Chopin’s
Préludes
No. 4 in E minor and No. 6 in B
minor. The funeral was attended by nearly three thousand people, but
George Sand was not among them.
Chopin was buried, in accordance with his wishes, at
Père Lachaise Cemetery . At the
graveside, the
Funeral March
from his
Sonata No. 2 in B flat minor, Op. 35
was played, in
Napoléon Henri Reber ‘s instrumentation.
Chopin’s grave, with its monument carved by Clésinger, attracts
numerous visitors and is consistently decorated with flowers, even in
winter.
In 2008 a controversy arose over whether Chopin died of tuberculosis
or
cystic fibrosis , an incurable
genetic disease
whose complete clinical
spectrum was not recognized until the 1930s, almost a century after his
death. The Polish government declined to allow scientists to remove
Chopin’s heart from its repository for DNA testing.
Memorials
In 1909, to celebrate Chopin’s centenary, the Russian composer
Sergei Lyapunov
wrote a “ symphonic poem
in memory of Chopin”, titled
Zhelazova Vola ,
Op. 37 ( Russian : Жeлaзoвa
Вoлa), a reference to
Chopin’s birthplace .
In 1926 a bronze statue of Chopin, designed by sculptor
Wacław Szymanowski
in 1907, was erected
in the upper part of
Warsaw ‘s
Royal Baths ( Łazienki ) Park , adjacent to Ujazdów Avenue
( Aleje Ujazdowskie ). The statue was originally to have been
erected in 1910, on the centenary of Chopin’s birth, but its execution
was delayed by controversy about the design, then by the outbreak of
World
War I .
On 31 May 1940, during the German occupation of Poland in
World
War II , the statue was destroyed by the
Nazis .
It was reconstructed after the war, in 1958. Since 1959, free piano
recitals of Chopin’s compositions have been performed at the statue’s
base on summer Sunday afternoons. The stylized
willow
over Chopin’s seated figure echoes a
pianist ‘s
hand and fingers. Until 2007, the statue was the world’s tallest
monument erected to Chopin.
A 1:1-scale replica of Szymanowski’s
Art
Nouveau
statue is found in
Warsaw ‘s
sister city of
Hamamatsu , Japan. There are also preliminary plans
to erect
another replica along Chicago’s
lakefront
in addition to a different sculpture commemorating the
artist in
Chopin Park
for the 200th anniversary
of Chopin’s birth.
There are numerous other monuments to Chopin around the world. The
most recent, and by a small margin taller than the Warsaw statue, is a
modernistic bronze sculpture by
Lu Pin
in Shanghai, China,
that was unveiled on 3 March 2007.
The world’s oldest monographic music competition, the
International
Frédéric Chopin Piano Competition , founded in 1927, is held every
five years in
Warsaw .
Periodically the
Grand prix du disque de F. Chopin
is awarded
for notable Chopin recordings, both remastered and newly recorded work.
Named for the composer are the largest Polish music
conservatory , the
Fryderyk Chopin Music Academy ;
Warsaw Frédéric Chopin Airport ;
and
asteroid
3784
Chopin .
Music
Chopin, according to
Arthur
Hedley , “had the rare gift of a very personal melody, expressive of
heart-felt emotion, and his music is penetrated by a poetic feeling
that has an almost universal appeal…. Present-day evaluation places
him among the immortals of music by reason of his insight into the
secret places of the heart and because of his awareness of the magical
new sonorities to be drawn from the piano.”
It is very difficult to characterise Chopin’s oeuvre briefly.
Robert Schumann , speaking of Chopin’s
Sonata in B-flat minor , wrote
that “he alone begins and ends a work like this: with dissonances,
through dissonances, and in dissonances,” and in Chopin’s music he
discerned “cannon concealed amid blossoms.”
Franz
Liszt , in the opening of his biography about Chopin (Life of
Chopin), termed him a “gentle, harmonious genius.” Thus disparate have
been the views on Chopin’s music. The first systematic, if imperfect,
study of Chopin’s style came in F. P. Laurencin’s 1861
Die Harmonik
der Neuzeit . Laurencin concluded that “Chopin is one of the most
brilliant exceptional natures that have ever stridden onto the stage of
history and life, he is one who can never be exhausted nor stand before a
void. Chopin is the musical progone of all progones until now.”
Chopin’s music for the piano combined a unique rhythmic sense
(particularly his use of
rubato ),
frequent use of
chromaticism , and
counterpoint .
This mixture produces a particularly fragile sound in the
melody
and
the
harmony ,
which are nonetheless underpinned by solid and interesting harmonic
techniques. He took the new salon genre of the
nocturne ,
invented by Irish composer
John Field , to a deeper level of
sophistication. Three of Chopin’s twenty-one
Nocturnes
were
published only after his death in 1849, contrary to his wishes. He also endowed popular dance forms, such as the Polish
mazurek
and the
Viennese waltz , with a
greater range of melody and expression.
Chopin’s mazurkas , while based somewhat on
the traditional Polish dance, were different from the traditional
variety in that they were suitable for concerts halls as well as dance
settings. With his mazurkas, Chopin brought a new sense of
nationalism ,
which was an idea other composers writing both at the same time as and
after Chopin would also incorporate into their compositions. Chopin’s
nationalism was a great influence and inspiration for many other
composers, especially Eastern Europeans, and he was one of the first
composers to clearly express nationalism through his music. Furthermore,
he was the first composer to take a national genre of music from his
home country and transform it into a genre worthy of the general
concert-going public, thereby creating an entirely new genre.
Chopin was the first to write
ballades
and
scherzi
as individual pieces. He also took the example of Bach’s
preludes
and
fugues , transforming the genre in his own Préludes.
Further information:
Nocturnes (Chopin) ,  Preludes (Chopin) , and  Études (Chopin)
Chopin reinvented the
étude , expanding on the idea and making it into a gorgeous, eloquent and
emotional showpiece. He also used his
Études
to teach his own
revolutionary style, for instance playing with the weak fingers (3, 4, and 5) in fast
figures (Op. 10, No. 2), playing in octaves (Op 25, No.10) and playing
black keys with the thumb (Op. 10, No. 5).
Influence
Several of Chopin’s pieces have become very well known—for instance
the
Revolutionary Étude
(Op. 10, No. 12), the
Minute
Waltz
(Op. 64, No. 1), and the third movement of his
Funeral March
Sonata No. 2
(Op. 35), which is often used as an iconic representation of grief.
Chopin himself never named an instrumental work beyond
genre
and number, leaving all potential extra-musical associations to the
listener; the names by which we know many of the pieces were invented by
others. The
Revolutionary Étude
was not written with the failed Polish
uprising against Russia in mind; it merely appeared at that time. The
Funeral
March
was written before the rest of the sonata within which it is
contained, but the exact occasion is not known; it appears not to have
been inspired by any specific personal bereavement. Other melodies have been used as the basis of popular songs, such as
the slow section of the
Fantaisie-Impromptu
(Op. posth. 66)
and the first section of the
Étude, Op. 10, No. 3 . These
pieces often rely on an intense and personalised chromaticism, as well
as a melodic curve that resembles the operas of Chopin’s day — the
operas of
Gioachino Rossini ,
Gaetano Donizetti , and especially
Vincenzo Bellini . Chopin used the piano to recreate the gracefulness of the singing
voice, and talked and wrote constantly about singers.
Chopin’s style and gifts became increasingly influential.
Robert Schumann
was a huge admirer of Chopin’s music, and
he used melodies from Chopin and even named a piece from his suite
Carnaval
after Chopin. This
admiration was not generally reciprocated, although Chopin did dedicate
his
Ballade No. 2 in F major
to Schumann.
Franz Liszt
was another admirer and personal friend of the
composer, and he transcribed for piano six of Chopin’s Polish songs.
However, Liszt denied that he wrote
Funérailles
(subtitled “October 1849”, the seventh movement of his piano suite
Harmonies poétiques et
religieuses
of 1853) in memory of Chopin. Though the middle
section seems to be modeled on the famous octave trio section of
Chopin’s
Polonaise in A flat major,
Op. 53 , Liszt said the piece had been inspired by the deaths of
three of his Hungarian compatriots in the same month.
Johannes Brahms
and the younger Russian
composers, too, found inspiration in Chopin’s examples. Chopin’s technical innovations became influential. His
Préludes
(Op. 28) and
Études
(Opp. 10 and 25) rapidly became
standard works, and inspired both Liszt’s
Transcendental Études
and
Schumann’s
Symphonic Studies .
Alexander Scriabin
was also strongly influenced by Chopin;
for example, his 24 Preludes, Op. 11, are inspired by Chopin’s Op. 28.
Jeremy Siepmann, in his biography of the composer, lists pianists
whose recordings of Chopin are generally acknowledged to be among the
greatest Chopin performances ever preserved:
Vladimir de Pachmann ,
Raoul
Pugno ,
Ignacy Jan Paderewski ,
Moriz Rosenthal ,
Sergei Rachmaninoff ,
Alfred
Cortot ,
Ignaz Friedman ,
Raoul Koczalski ,
Arthur Rubinstein ,
Mieczysław Horszowski ,
Claudio
Arrau ,
Vlado Perlemuter ,
Vladimir Horowitz ,
Dinu
Lipatti ,
Vladimir Ashkenazy ,
Martha Argerich ,
Maurizio Pollini ,
Murray Perahia ,
Krystian Zimerman ,
Evgeny
Kissin .
Arthur Rubinstein
said the following about
Chopin’s music and its universality:
Chopin was a genius of universal appeal. His music conquers the
most diverse audiences. When the first notes of Chopin sound through the
concert hall there is a happy sigh of recognition. All over the world
men and women know his music. They love it. They are moved by it. Yet it
is not “Romantic music” in the
Byronic
sense. It does
not tell stories or paint pictures. It is expressive and personal, but
still a pure art. Even in this abstract atomic age, where emotion is not
fashionable, Chopin endures. His music is the universal language of
human communication. When I play Chopin I know I speak directly to the
hearts of people!
Style
Although Chopin lived in the 1800s, he was educated in the tradition
of
Beethoven ,
Haydn ,
Mozart
and
Clementi ; he used Clementi’s piano method with his own
students. He was also influenced by
Hummel ‘s development of virtuoso, yet Mozartian,
piano technique. Chopin cited Bach and Mozart as the two most important
composers in shaping his musical outlook. [ citation needed ]
The series of seven Polonaises published in his lifetime (another
nine were published posthumously), beginning with the Op. 26 pair, set a
new standard for music in the form, and were rooted in Chopin’s desire
to write something to celebrate Polish culture after the country had
fallen into Russian control. The Polonaise in A major, Op. 40, No. 1, the “Military,” and the
Polonaise in
A-flat major , Op. 53, the “Heroic,” are among
Chopin’s best-loved and most-often-played works.
Rubato
Chopin’s music is well known for benefiting from
rubato
(which was how he himself performed
his music), as opposed to a strictly regular playing. Yet there is usually call for
caution when the music is performed with wobbly, over-exaggerated,
inappropriate
“rubato” (e.g. attempting to justify insecure playing, with reference
to expressive rubato).
His playing was always noble and beautiful; his tones sang, whether
in full
forte
or softest
piano . He took infinite pains to teach
his pupils this
legato ,
cantabile
style of playing. His most severe criticism was “He—or she—does not
know how to join two notes together.” He also demanded the strictest
adherence to rhythm. He hated all lingering and dragging, misplaced
rubatos , as well as exaggerated
ritardandos
… and it is precisely in this
respect that people make such terrible errors in playing his works.
—Friederike Müller,  “From the Diary
of a Viennese Chopin Pupil”
However, while some can provide restrictive quotes about Chopin such
as the above, often to the effect that “the accompanying hand always
played in strict tempo”, these quotes need to be considered in better
context in terms both of the time when they were made and of the situations
that may have prompted the original writer to set down the thoughts.
Constantin von Sternberg (1852–1924) has written:
It is amusing to note that even some serious persons express the
idea that in tempo rubato “the right hand may use a certain freedom
while the left hand must keep strict time.” (See Niecks’
Life of
Chopin , II, p. 101.) A nice sort of music would result from such
playing! Something like the singing of a good vocalist accompanied by a
poor blockhead who hammers away in strict time without yielding to the
singer who, in sheer despair, must renounce all artistic expression. It
is reported by some ladies that Chopin himself gave them this
explanation, but — they might not have understood him […]
—Constantin von Sternberg (1852-1924),  Tempo
rubato, and other essays
There are also views of contemporary writers such as
Hector Berlioz .
This suggests that Chopin is not to be found at commonly encountered
one-sided
extremes. The unbalanced views are:
that Chopin requires
metronomic
rhythm in the left hand;
that insecure performances of Chopin can be justified with reference
to rubato.
that performances with particular inflections, that result from
technical limits/insecurities rather than a performer’s intentions, can
be justified with reference to rubato.
Some performers’ (and piano-schools’) “too-strongly-held one-sided
views on Chopin’s way of playing rubato” may account for some
unsatisfactory interpretations of his music.
Romanticism
Chopin regarded most of his contemporaries with indifference, though
he had many acquaintances who were associated with
romanticism
in music,
literature , and the fine arts—many of them via
his liaison with George Sand. Chopin’s music is, however, considered by
many to epitomise the Romantic style. The relative classical purity and discretion in his music, with little
extravagant exhibitionism, partly reflects his reverence for
Bach
and
Mozart .
Chopin never indulged in explicit “scene-painting” in his music, or
used programmatic titles. He castigated publishers who renamed his
compositions in this way.
Nationalism
Zdzisław Jachimecki
notes that “Chopin
at every step demonstrated his Polish spirit — in the hundreds of
letters that he wrote in Polish, in his attitude to Paris’s [Polish]
émigrés, in his negative view of all that bore the official stamp of the
powers that occupied Poland.” Likewise Chopin composed music to
accompany Polish texts but never musically illustrated a single French or German text, even
though he numbered among his friends several great French and German
poets.
According to
Arthur Hedley , Chopin “found within himself
and in the tragic story of Poland the chief sources of his inspiration.
The theme of Poland’s glories and sufferings was constantly before him,
and he transmuted the primitive rhythms and melodies of his youth into
enduring art forms.”
In asserting his own Polishness, Chopin, according to Jachimecki,
exerted “a tremendous influence [toward] the
nationalization
of the work of numerous later composers, who have often personally —
like the
Czech ,
Smetana
and
Norway’s
Grieg
— confirmed this opinion…”
Works
Main article:
List of compositions by
Frédéric Chopin
Over 230 of Chopin’s works survive; some manuscripts and pieces from
his early childhood have been lost. All of his known compositions
involved the piano. Only a few of them ranged beyond solo piano music,
as either
piano concerti
or
chamber
music
works.
Chopin composed:
3
piano sonatas
5
rondos
4
scherzos
4
ballades
17
polonaises , including one with
orchestral accompaniment and one for cello and piano accompaniment
58
mazurkas
20
waltzes
3
écossaises
26
preludes
4 sets of
variations , including
Souvenir de
Paganini
4
impromptus
21
nocturnes
27
études
(twelve in the Op. 10 cycle, twelve
in the Op. 25 cycle, and three in a collection without an opus number)
2
concertos
for piano and orchestra, Opp.
11
and
21
He also composed a
fantaisie , an
Allegro de concert
(which is
possibly the remnant of an incomplete concerto), a
barcarole , a
berceuse , a
bolero , a
tarantella ,
a
contredanse , a
fugue , a
cantabile ,
a
lento ,
a
Funeral March , and a
Feuille d’album .
Chopin’s other works include a
krakowiak
for piano and orchestra;
fantasia
on themes from Polish songs with accompanying orchestra, a
trio for violin, cello and piano ; a
sonata for cello and piano , a
Grand Duo in E
major
for cello and piano with
Auguste Franchomme
on themes from
Giacomo Meyerbeer ‘s opera
Robert le diable , and 19 Polish
songs
for
voice and accompanying piano.
Opus numbers
The last opus number that Chopin himself used was 65, allocated to
the
Cello Sonata in G minor .
Chopin expressed a deathbed wish that all his unpublished manuscripts
be destroyed. However, at the request of the composer’s mother and
sisters, his pianist friend and musical executor
Julian Fontana
selected 23 unpublished piano pieces and
grouped them into eight opus numbers (Opp. 66–73). These works were
published in 1855.
In 1857, 17 Polish songs for which Chopin was known to have composed
music at various stages of his life were collected and published as Op.
74—the order within that opus having little regard to the actual order
of composition. Other songs have since come to light, but they are not part of Op. 74.
Works that have been published since 1857 have not received opus
numbers. Instead, alternate catalog designations have been applied to
them.
Fiction
Possibly the first venture into fictional treatments of Chopin’s life
was a fanciful
operatic
version of some of its events. This opera,
entitled
Chopin , was written by
Giacomo Orefice
and produced in
Milan
in
1901. Orefice incorporated Chopin’s music, arranged as arias; the
operatic arrangements have been described as “coarse”. Various arias have been recorded by well-known singers, but the opera
has long been out of the repertoire. Orefice also applied an operatic
treatment to one of
George Sand ‘s novels,
Consuelo .
Chopin’s life and his relations with George Sand have been
fictionalized in
film . The 1945
biopic
A Song to Remember
earned
Cornel
Wilde
an
Academy Award
nomination as
Best Actor
for his portrayal of
the composer. Other film treatments have included
Impromptu
(1991), starring
Hugh
Grant
as Chopin;
La note bleue
(1991); and
Chopin: Desire for Love
(2002).
The 1975
Ken Russell
film
Lisztomania
outlandishly portrayed Chopin and Sand’s relationship as
dominant and submissive
with Sand
fulfilling the role of
dominatrix
over Chopin’s
submissive
attitude.
Another reference to Chopin in cinema occurs in
Ingmar Bergman ‘s
Autumn
Sonata . The difference of interpretation of Chopin’s Prelude
No. 2 in A minor by the pianist Charlotte Andergast and her daughter Eva
constitutes a major scene in the film.
The role-playing video game
Eternal Sonata
(2007) is set in a dream world created by a fictional Chopin on his deathbed.
Its story line refers to Chopin’s life and music, and his compositions
are heard on the soundtrack.
Comment
Glossary
Filed under:
Classical Music
—
Leave a comment
March 31, 2010
Adagio .  Italian musical term meaning ‘slow’, often interpreted as very slow.
Allegro .  Italian musical term meaning ‘light’ or ‘fast’. But is an ‘allegretto’ (meaning, literally, ‘a little allegro’) slower or faster than allegro? The term is usually accepted as meaning slower, but is irritatingly ambiguous.
Andante .  Italian musical term meaning ‘at walking pace’.
Andantino .  Irritatingly ambiguous Italian musical term, usually taken to mean a little faster than andante, but which can also be interpreted as a little slower than andante.
Aria .  Italian word for ‘song’ or ‘air’, performed by a solo singer, particulary in an operatic context.
Arpeggio .  Split chord, i.e. a chord whose notes are spread in a harplike manner instead of being sounded simultaneously.
Assai.
Italian word for ‘very’.
Baritone .  Low male voice, pitched between tenor and bass.
Basset clarinet.
Clarinet with an extended lower register, invented by Mozart’s friend, Anton Stadler, who employed it in his performances of the Clarinet Concerto, K622, and Clarinet Quintet, K581. Long obsolete; but modern versions of the instrument have been made for use by authenticity-conscious players.
Basset horn .  Species od large, deep-toned clarinet, much loved by Mozart in his Vienna years, when he used it primarily for masonic purposes, but also in his big B flat Wind Serenade, K361, and his opera
La clemenza di Tito .
Breeches role .  Also known as trousers role. An operatic part in which a male character is played by a woman. The role of Cherubino in
Figaro’s Wedding
was specifially written in such a way. But castrato roles, originally a feature of
opera seria
and devised for male singers whose pre-puberty voice had been preserved by castration, are also now performed by women in the manner of breeches roles. This is increasingly preferred to the only realistic alternative, which us to transpose the music downwards for tenor or baritone voice. Idamante in
Indomeneo
is such a role.
Cadenza .  Solo passage for varying length, particularly in the first movement of a concerto or in a vocal work, enabling the soloist to display his/her technique in an improvisational manner relevant to the work being performed. Classical cadenzas traditionally end with a trill, serving as a signal to the conductor and orchestra to get ready to rejoin the soloist. Mozart wrote down some of his own cadenzas for concertos, providing invaluable information on how he performed such passages.
Canon .  Put simply, a ‘catch’ or a ’round’. Piece of music, or section of a piece, in which a melody performed by one voice or instrument is repeated by one or more others, each entering before the previous voice has finished. As a result, the melody is presented in a constantly overlapping form. A double canon is an elaborate form of canon featuring two simultaneous canons for two voices each – also known as a ‘canon four in two’.
Chromaticism .  The use of chromatic chords or scales which, in piano terms, employ all the black notes as well as the white notes of the keyboard. Chromatic harmony is therefore richer than simple diatonic harmony, based on the notes of the normal major or minor scale.
Concerto.
Work for solo instrument (or several instruments) and orchestra, usually in three movements. Mozart perfected the art of the piano concerto.
Counterpoint . The combination of two or more melodies or musical figures in such way that make musical sense.
Divertimento .  A piece of entertainment music, usually for a group of instruments (strings and/or wind), in several movements.
Double bassoon .  The lowest woodwind instrument regularly employed in an orchestra or ensemble. It has a compass an octave lower than a bassoon’s. Rarely used before the nineteenth century; but Mozart included a part for it in his great Serenade for thirteen wind instruments.
Gavotte .  Antique dance-form, akin to a minuet, but with four beats in the bar instead of three. A tradition of the gavotte is that it begins on the third beat, Mozart, particularly in his early years, occasionally employed the rhythm of the gavotte as an ingredient of his concert music. Bach included gavottes in many of his dance suites, and Prokofiev’s
Classical Symphony
contains a witty pastiche of a baroque gavotte.
K .  Abbreviated prefix referring to the Kochel index of Mozart’s works. Ludwig von Kochel (1800-77) was an Austrian scholar whose catalogue provides the standard chronological reference numbers for Mozart’s works. Thus K216 is the index reference for the Violin Concerto in G major. The catalogue, largely accurate, has been subject to a degree of modern revision.
Konzertmeister .  Concert master. Leader or director of an orchestra or ensemble.
Larghetto . Italian music term meaning ‘slow and digfined’.
Maestoso . Italian musical term meaning ‘majestic’.
Mezzo-soprano . Female voice pitched halfway between soprano and contralto. Today the term (often abbreviated to ‘mezzo) tends to be employed in preference to ‘contralto’, now almost obsolete.
Minuet . Dance in triple-time usually employed by Mozart as the second or third movement of a string quartet, or the third movement of a symphony. The contrasted middle section of a minuet is known as a trio, because there was a tradition of writing it in three-part harmony.
Moderato . Italian musical term meaning ‘at moderate speed’.
Molto . Italian word for ‘very’.
Non Troppo . Italian musical term meaning ‘not too much’.
Obbligato.
Italian term employed when an instrument has a special ‘obligatory’ role in a piece of music, usually in conjunction with the human voice. Thus, Mozart’s case, an operatic aria may have a clarinet obbligato or a violin obbligato in addition to a general orchestral accompaniment.
Piano quartet.
A work for piano with (usually) a trio of strings, consisting of violin, viola and cello.
Pizzicato.
Plucked note on a string instrument.
Polyphony . Greek word meaning ‘many voices’, i.e the simultaneous sounding of different lines, melodies or notes. Synonymous with counterpoint.
Presto.
Italian musical term meaning ‘fast’, often taken to mean as fast as possible (which would in face be
prestissimo ).
Rondeau . A rondo in the French manner. Term used by Mozart when writing in that style.
Rondo form . Italian term for what was traditionally the spirited finale of a symphony, string quartet or sonata. The word refers to the fact that the opening theme or section of the movement keeps recurring, or coming ’round’ again, thereby forming an essential part of the music’s structure. Slow movements can also be in rondo form.
Scherzo . Italian word for ‘joke’. Title applied, particularly by Beethoven, to what until then had been a movement in the form of a minuet. Mozart wrote no scherzos, though Haydn occasionally used the term.
Sonata . A work consisting of three or four carefully structured movements. A three-movement Mozart sonata usually has a slow movement enclosed between two faster ones.
Sonata form . Term describing the structure of what was usually the first movement of a sonata during Mozart’s period and later. Put simply, it consisted of an ‘exposition’, based on two or more contrasted themes, a ‘development’ section in which the material ready heard is altered, developed, broken up or tautened in various ways, a ‘recapitulation’ in which the introductory material is assembled in something like its original form, and a ‘coda’ or tailpiece, which rounds the music off or brings it to some sort of closing climax.
Sonotory.
Sound. The sonotory of a group of wind instruments is the sound they make when performing together.
Soprano . The highest female voice, ranging from middle C upwards.
Sostnuto . Italian musical term meaning ‘sustained’.
String bass . Colloquial term for double bass, the lowest string instrument regularly employed in an orchestra or ensemble.
String quartet . A work for four string players, traditionally two violins, viola and cello. Haydn perfected the form, to which Mozart, Beethoven and Schubert all made major contributions. A string quartet is also an ensemble which performs string quartets.
String quintet.
As above, but with an extra player, selected by the composer. Mozart’s quintets had a second viola.  Schubert, in his solitary string quintet, preferred two cellos.
Symphony . Form of orchestral work in several movements, usually of an ambitious nature. Much favoured by Haydn (known as the ‘father of the symphony’), Mozart, Beethoven and Schubert.
Tenor . High male voice, employed by Mozart in his operas and choral works.
Trill.
Musical term for the rapid alternation of the written note and the note above. Trills are traditionally decorative, but in keyboard terms they aare a way of sustaining the sound of a note.
Vivace.
Italian word for ‘lively’.
Comment
Notes on Mozart : Requiem in D minor, K626
Filed under:
Uncategorized
—
1 Comment
February 27, 2010
Introit               Kyrie               Dies irae               Tuba mirnum               Rex remendae               Recordare            Confutatis               Lacrimosa             Domine Jesu                Hostias               Sanctus               Benedictus                 Agnus Dei               Lux aeterna
D minor was Mozart’s most demonic key, the one he employed for the supernatural side of
Don Giovanni , for the sulphurous first movement of his D minor Piano Concerto, K466, for the shadowy Kyrie, K341, and for the last of his works, the unfinished requiem, K626.
The story of how Mozart came to write it, and failed to complete it, is famous, though less mysterious than it has been made to seem. No vengeful Salieri – the man reputed (slanderously) to be Mozart’s murderous Viennese enemy – lay behind the ominous nature of the commission, which reached Mozart via a supposedly sinister stranger in July 1791. The stranger, sinister or otherwise, was merely the lackey of a certain Count Walsegg-Stuppach, a would-be composer who commissioned music from other people and passed it off as his own.
Walsegg’s wife having recently died, he wanted someone special to write a Requiem in her memory. Mozart was his man, but was extremely busy at the time, with two operas to finish by September and his Clarinet Concerto for Anton Stadler in October. Nevertheless, being always in need of ready cash, he accepted the commission (50 per cent in advance), though he delayed  fulfilling it. This, no doubt, helped to account for the theory that commission ‘distressed’ him and ultimately made him fear that he was writing his own Requiem. In fact, as the latest edition of the
New Groove
confirms, there is ample evidence suggest that he was stimulated by the project, that Walsegg’s identity was no secret (the count shared a villa with Mozart’s close friend and benefactor Michael Puchberg), and that Anton Stadler was already earmarked to perform the major basset-horn part. What finally threw Mozart’s knife-edge timing askew was the feverish illness which hit him in November, slowed his progress, brought him out in boils, and killed him at the bar eight of the Lacrimosa. The theory that Salieri had poisoned him, given weight by Pushkin’s poem on the subject and by Rimsky-Korsakov’s opera
Mozart and Salieri , was just one (though the worst) of the innumerable Mozart myths which continue to circulate him. If anyone killed Mozart, it was more probably one of the doctors who bled him with inadequately sterilised instruments.
His death, at any rate, placed his widow in a quandary. Since Count Walsegg would have been unlikely to accept a half-finished work, Constanze Mozart expediently adopted the count’s own tactics and got someone else – the composer’s pupil Franz Xaver Sussmayr – to complete it. Sussmayr, who had already been acting as the dying composer’s amanuensis, did a resourceful job, using Mozart’s surviving sketches and memories of discussions to fill out the unfinished music. Though the result was not authenic Mozart – how it could be? – it was unquestionably a musical entity, which has continued to this day to be successfully performed. Few if any numbers of the average audience would be aware of Sussmayr’s plastic surgery on the music if they had not been informed of it beforehand.
Its mistake and inconsistencies, however, have prompted more than one dissatisfied Mozart scholar to revise Sussmayr’s efforts, usually to no avail. Among performers, loyalty to Sussmayr remains strong. One of the best and most recent of the interventionist, however, is Robert Levin, whose edition has been taken up in Britain by that most assiduous of Mozart conductors, Sir Charles Mackerras.
Consicous of structural inadequacies at any key points in the Sussmayr original, and of easily adjustable infelicities of instrumentation and musical grammar, Levin has made many subtle alterations that can only be to the music’s benefit. Of these, the most noticeable are the addition of a new powerful Agmen fugue (based on a Mozart sketch ignored or overlooked by Sussmayr) at the end of the Lacrimosa, the higher profile of the Hosanna fugue in the Sanctus, and the instrumental shadows which are atmospherically cast over the end of the Benedictus just before the short Hosanna reprise.
Yet the orchestration of the Requiem as it has come down to us has not been obscured. In fact, the reverse is true. Again and again, the sound has been meticulously cleaned up, corrected and purified. The burnished beauty of tone, brought about by the emphasis on basset horns and basoons, alongside trumpets, pounding kettledrums and the uncanny timbre of an obbligato trombone in the Tuba mirum becomes intensified, and the deliberate absence of flutes, oboes and horns becomes even more noticeable.
The work as a whole shines forth as a final inspired combination of the traditional Austrian Roman Catholic side of Mozart’s church music and his later devotion to freemasonry, complete with the very individual sound-world – here incorporating some touching hints of
The Magic Flute
– which he invented to potray it. In Robert Levin’s revision, the Mozart-Sussmayr score is now surely as good as it is ever going to be.
Most recording of Mozart’s Requiem have drawbacks of one sort or another. Old-fashioned performances with big choirs and symphony orchestras no longer sound right for this work, whose stabbing rhythms and fierce dissonances have everything to gain from being performed by light-toned forces under a drama-conscious conductor. (taken from the book “Notes on Mozart” by Conrad Wilson)
Comment
Notes on Beethoven : Symphony No. 5 in C minor, Op. 67
Filed under:
Uncategorized
—
Leave a comment
February 24, 2010
Allegro con brio               Andante con moto               Allegro –               Allegro
Leonard Bernstein, in one of his television lectures which were often so much sharper than his performances, had this to say about the first four notes of Beethoven’s Fifth Symphony: ‘Three Gs and an E flat. Simple. Baby simple. Anybody could think of it. Maybe’
In these words he underlined the reverberating impact of a motif Beethoven had already employed, to quite different and less sensational effect, in his Fourth Piano Concerto and other works. Beethoven’s own comment, as quoted by his unreliable friend Anton Schindler, was that in the Fifth Symphony the notes represented Fate rapping at the door.
The words, true or otherwise, were vivid enough to go down in history, along with the V-for-victory symbolism of the notes in Morse code during the Second World War. Even if the motif was an established Beethoven fingerprint at a certain stage in his career, he never used it more potently than in this symphony, where it obsessively pervades the opening movement and returns, in slightly altered form, in both the scherzo and finale. It was a motif which, in any case, had already been heroically employed by Cherubini in his
Hymne du Panth é on , as Beethoven, an ardent admirer of that Paris-based Italian, surely knew. The fierce thematic unity of the first movement of the Fifth Symphony is neverthless its strongest feature, transcending not only Cherubini’s but also Beethoven’s own previous use of it.
Hurled at us in increasingly pungent C minor, it makes its point unequivocally and goes on making it. Not even the forlorn little oboe cadenza which intrudes at the height of the action can impede its progress for long. When the motif immediately resumes, its fury is doubled. But whether, as has often been claimed, the music’s inexorably marching motion represents Austria expelling the french is hard to say. Certainly, although some listeners are unwilling to see it as hawkish, this is a profoundly militaristic and devastating work – and the brassy fanfares in the slow movement, the screaming piccolo and braying trombones in the finale, are in themselves enough to confirm the fact.
Not for nothing did a member of the Napoleonic guard, on hearing it for the first time, reputedly spring misguidedly to his feet at the start of the finale, crying ‘C’est l’empereur’. The music is ceremonial, exultant, even brutal, an exercise in triumphalism of the most blatant sort, summed up by the modish saying that if you have a hammer, you find nails to use it on. In this symphony, Beethoven had his hammer. How the music actually sounded as part of an under-rehearsed four-hour Beethoven programme in an unheated Theater ab der Wien in December 1808 is anybody’s guess. But, however inaccurate the performance, and however uncomfortable the conditions in which it took place, its message must have been clear.
Beethoven, who had once contemplated settling in Paris rather than Vienna, held famously self-contradictory views on Napoleon, as well as possessing a considerable admiration for French music. And it was Berlioz, a Frenchman, who said that Beethoven’s ability to sustain such a height of effect in this work was nothing if not ‘prodigious’. yet it took a long time – four years, from 1804 until 1808 – for him to shape the symphony to his satisfaction while distracting himself with other major projects.
During the long gestation of what is by no means a long work, the slow movement, originally conceived as a sort of lumbering minuet, eventually became a theme and variations through whose often brazen notes a hint of dance motion remained discernible. The scherzo, originally an extended movement on the lines of the scherzos of the fourth, sixth and seventh symphonies, eventually grew shorter – through Pierre Boulez and Nikolaus Harnoncourt, in their recordings of it, have continued to champion the full-length version of this movement which, it is now thought, may have been erroneously abbreviated. The finale, linked to the scherzo by ghostly drum-taps, stealthy strings and the gradual appearance of what seems like a pale thread of light, announces itself with the most resounding burst of C major in musical history.
Yet the work as a whole is not purely about progress from the sombreness of C minor to the fierce sunshine of the major key. The four notes with which it opens – those three Gs and an E flat – are not specifically in the key of C minor at all, even if that is how they sound. Nor are they played by the full orchestra, though that is the effect which their initial statement on strings and clarinets manages to convey. There are performances, more often now than in the past, which can make the victory of C major over C minor seem quite irrelevant, the whole work being a show of bombastic force. Beethoven’s Fifth may be the most familiar, or over-familiar, of all his symphonies, but a good performances of it still has the power to surprise.
Recordings of the Fifth tend to fall between well-upholstered, romantic, old-fashioned performances about good banishing evil, and harderedged, smaller-scale modern performances in which the heroic side of Beethoven is taken with a pinch of salt. Though all music is subject to fashion, the latter approach, at least for the moment, seems nearer the truth. Beethoven’s Fifth is not a beautiful work but a raw, abrasive one, and the sounds it makes have nothing to do with his diminished hearing. He heard it that way in his head. (Taken from the book “Notes on Beethoven” by Conrad Wilson)
Comment
Notes on Schubert : Four Impromptus
Filed under:
Classical Music
—
Leave a comment
February 22, 2010
1827
Four Impromptus, D899
No. 1 in C minor
No. 2 in E flat major
No. 3 in G flat major
No. 4 in A flat major
Four Impromptus, D935
No. 1 in F minor
No. 2 in A flat major
No. 3 in B flat major
No. 4 in F minor
Though Schubert’s piano sonatas are now recognised as vital large-scale components of his output, they were once considered so inferior to Beethoven’s that they did not merit serious attention. His sets of shorter piano pieces, on the other hand, were overshadowed by nobody else’s. Moreover, being easier to grasp and less tiring to perform, they had no difficulty establishing themselves as little miracles of musical characterisation. The fact that the two sets of impromptus, D899 and D835, were once thought to be sonatas in disguise did nothing to diminish their popularity or to stop pianist from splitting them up as separate
morceaux.
Written late in the penultimate year of his life, and shortly before he embarked on his last three great and genuine piano sonatas, they nevertheless benefit from being treated as entities.
What’s in a name? ‘Impromptu’ implies something improvised; but Robert Schumann, that passionate musical cryptographer, was one of the first to propose that Schubert was here deliberately concealing something more ambitious. His evidence was based on the second set, with its abundance of sonata-like features and its return in the end to the key in which it begins. but the first set, which begins in one key and ends in another, seems unified principally by the fact that the four pieces are all by Schubert. In no sense do they form an integer; yet, in an uncanny way, that is how they sound.
The tem ‘Impromptu’ was in any case a bit vague in 1827. Vo rišek,
the conductor of Vienna’s Gesellschaft der Musikfreunde and thus known to Schubert, had pioneered it with an impromptu written five years earlier. If Schubert’s pieces do in some ways sound improvisatory, this is merely the impression given by them. Quite clearly, they were meticulously composed.
Of the four that form D899 (originaly grouped as Opus 90), the first is inspired almost entirely by a melancholy little march tune, its notes picked out skeletally and haltingly before being harmonised. The second is brilliant, fiery example of what Chopin might have called an
étude , setting right-hand triplets against left-hand rhythmic pattern (Brahms, in a resourceful arrangement of it, put the triplets in the left hand). The third is a serenely flowing idyll – sweet, sad, sublime – based on one of the most gently rippling and unforgetable of all Schubert melodies. In the fourth, there are flashing arpeggios surrounding a ruggedly Beethovenian middle section.
Schubert was dead before Schumann identified, to his own satisfaction, the second set of impromptus, D935, as a sonata in disguise, with F minor as its home key. Whatever Schubert himself had thought about them, he was progamatic enough to tell his publisher that the pieces, formerly known as Op. 142, could be performed separately or together, and he numbered them 5-8 as proof that they formed a continuation of the earlier set.
Sonata or otherwise – and all Schubert authorities today opt for otherwise – the music does have its own unity, the pieces offsetting each other to perfection. Yet each, as the composer clearly recognised, seems thoroughly self – sufficient, in a way that a sonata movement usually does not – thought perhaps we should ask if Schubert’s choice of title has any bearing on how we listen to the music.
But if Schubert had actually decided to call these four pieces a sonata, would we have thought any less highly of them? Thought the first pieces  is generally thought to have insufficient impulse to form the first movement of a sonata, the vast opening movement of the great G major Sonata has even less. Yet, meditative thought it is, it clearly forms the start of a great work, not least in Sviatoslav Richter’s almost static recording of it.
Quite apart from that, however, the opening impromptu is a quintessential Schubert journey with the pianist as wanderer, upon whose transitory moods we eavesdrop. The second impromptu is a sort of scherzo in slow motion, complete with central trio section. The third is a theme and variations, akin to andante of the A minor String Quartet and indeed based on the same theme from
Rosamunde.
The last is a stamping, syncopated dance, big enough to serve as counterweight to the first impromptu.
All very plausible, then – but the main argument against calling the result a sonata was that Schubert did not do so. He recognised the music as something different, though not necessarily slighter or less ambitious. The first piece takes it slowly circling major-minor contrast of tonality far beyond anything in the
Moments Musicaux , those nicely named Schubert miniatures with which the impromptus invite comparison, and it incorporates as second subject one of the most shimmeringly poignant of all Schubert’s keyboard melodies. The second impromptu comes closer to being a
Moment Musical , yet again its modulations – moving through two of Schubert’s favourite flattened keys and then surprisingly into the more remote A major – go beyond what might be expected of such a piece.
The third, rooted in
Rosamunde , is much too long to be considered a
Moment Musical , and the last has that volatile, impatient, scale-obsessed quality that can make some of Schubert’s seemingly more casual pieces end up sounding a lot less casual than the start. (taken from the book “Notes on Schubert” by Conrad Wilson)
Comment
« Older Entries
Recent entries
Johann Sebastian Bach
Johannes Brahms
Ludwig van Beethoven
Franz Liszt
Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart
Frédéric Chopin
Glossary
Notes on Mozart : Requiem in D minor, K626
Notes on Beethoven : Symphony No. 5 in C minor, Op. 67
Notes on Schubert : Four Impromptus
Browse popular tags
Meta
Register
Log in
Entries RSS
Comments RSS
Friends & links
Create a free website or blog at WordPress.com .
Create a free website or blog at WordPress.com .
Pages
About
Monthly archives
April 2010
March 2010
February 2010
Create a free website or blog at WordPress.com . |
The Motion Theme .
[ Back to top ]
Follow
Follow “The Wonderland Murders ”
Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.
Build a website with WordPress.com
Add your thoughts here... (optional)
Post to
Cancel