June | 2009 | TasteFood
TasteFood
a culinary journey beginning and ending at the kitchen table
Skip to content
Home
About
Contact
Press & Articles
Recipe Box
Monthly Archives:
June 2009
Gazpacho – a Hot Weather Friend
Posted on
June 27, 2009
|
3 comments
Oh my, it is hot.  How hot?  Well, I have been told it will reach 100 F. today (38C!)  I am positive that right now my kitchen is pushing 125 F. Now, for those of you who do not know me, I am not a hot-weather person. My idea of a dream existence is to own a lovely stone house in the south of France and live there year-round
except
in the summer, when I would head north. I don’t even mind rain from time to time. It’s the reverse of the natural order of things, I know, but my DNA is just not programmed to sustain the heat. I have come to expect the usual summer hot spells, but lately I have been lulled into ignorant bliss by a long stretch of clear, cool, breezy autumn-like weather.  I’ve been smiling ear to ear like a fleece-clad cheshire cat, enjoying wind blown hikes with rosy cheeks and watering eyes, while back home, I read sympathetically about the heat in further-flung-regions.
So, just when I begin to believe that this will be the summer norm, I find myself facing triple digit temperatures.  I suspiciously wonder if the high heat has been lurking and gleefully rubbing it’s sweaty hands all along, plotting and waiting to pounce as soon as I let my guard down.  Well I can roll with the punches.  I am now unpacking my small hot weather clothing that I have just packed for a trip to a hot futher-flung-region.  I am hiking only at the crack of dawn, and any water related locales have become the preferred destination.  And, for sure, the oven is off limits in the house, while all food I prepare comes from my repertoire of recipes that I turn to in extreme heat.
One such recipe is my version of gazpacho, a puréed tomato-based soup from Spain, served cold. I call it a liquid salad, because, if you glance at the ingredients, that is very much what it is. My version involves no puréeing, because I love the toothsome texture of the diced vegetables, fresh and satisfying to the bite. Their colors mingle with their natural juices in a cool, thirst-quenching soup of tomato, making this a festive and refreshing dish to present – one of the few un-wilted looking items in my kitchen at the moment. The selection of vegetables can be varied. I stray from the conventional gazpacho and add carrot for its color and sweetness and fennel bulb for its anise flavor and crunch. This is a perfect liquid salad for a hot summer day.
Gazpacho
Serves 4-6
1 quart or 1 liter tomato juice
1 organic cucumber with skin, seeded, diced
1 large red onion, finely chopped
3 tomatoes, diced, with juices
1 carrot, peeled, finely diced
1 fennel bulb, fronds and outer pieces removed, finely diced
1 red or yellow bell pepper, seeded, ribs removed, diced
1 jalapeno pepper, finely chopped
1 garlic clove, minced
1 teaspoon ground cumin
Juice of one lemon and one lime
1 tablespoon extra-virgin olive oil
Dash of tabasco sauce
Salt and freshly ground black pepper, to taste
1 generous handful fresh cilantro/coriander chopped
Combine all of the ingredients except cilantro in a large bowl.  Adjust seasoning to taste. Cover and chill at least one hour before serving. (Can be made up to 6 hours in advance.) Stir in cilantro before serving.  Garnish with cilantro or parsley leaves.
Serving suggestions:  Top gazpacho with diced avocado and serve with tortilla chips.
Share this: Click to print (Opens in new window) Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window) Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window) Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window) Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window) Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window) More Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)
3 Comments
Posted in
Appetizers ,
Soups and Stews ,
Vegetarian
Tagged
Gazpacho ,
recipe ,
soup
Grilled Eggplant and Heirloom Tomato Stacks with Basil and Tomato Coulis
Posted on
June 23, 2009
|
9 comments
Eggplants love the grill, and I love to grill eggplants – or
aubergines
as they are so elegantly referred to in other countries. Eggplants comes in many sizes and shapes, while the most common variety is the plump, pear-shaped and, well, aubergine colored vegetable found year round in our markets.
When it comes to the barbecue the versatile, yet subtle, eggplant is the workhorse of grilled vegetables. Its mellow, buttery flavor and firm texture lends well to the barbecue, as it hold its shape during grilling and serves as a perfect vehicle for spicy, smoky, flamboyant flavors. Eggplants may be simply prepared with olive oil, salt and pepper and served in stand-alone fashion – or tossed with a medley of Provençal-style vegetables as a grilled accompaniment to meat and fish.  Cut in planks, and use as a vessel for a dollop of creamy tsatsiki for an easy crowd-friendly appetizer – or stack grilled slices with tomato, basil and goat cheese for an impressive beginning to a dinner.
This recipe is easy to prepare, delicious and fresh to eat. The smoky eggplant combines beautifully with cool garlicky goat cheese, juicy sweet tomatoes and crisp fresh basil leaves.  Serve as an elegant appetizer or on a bed of arugula for a dramatic salad.
Grilled Eggplant and Heirloom Tomato Stacks with Basil
and Tomato Coulis
Makes 8 stacks
1 to 2  narrow, firm eggplants, sliced horizontally 1/4-inch thick to yield 16 slices
Extra-virgin olive oil
Salt and freshly ground black pepper
1 1/2 cups soft goat cheese
1 garlic clove, minced
2 large heirloom tomatoes, sliced horizontally 1/4-inch thick to yield 8 slices
16 large basil leaves
1/4 cup finely grated Pecorino Romano cheese
1 cup tomato coulis (see below)
Prepare Eggplant:
Preheat oven broiler or prepare grill. Lightly brush eggplant slices on both sides with olive oil. Sprinkle with salt and pepper. Arrrange on baking tray and broil in oven, turning once, until golden brown, about 3 minutes per side. (Or grill over direct medium heat until charred and tender, turning once, 6 to 8 minutes). Transfer to plate to cool.
Arrange Stacks:
Whisk goat cheese, garlic, 1/2 teaspoon salt and 1/2 teaspoon black pepper in a small bowl.
Arrange 1/2 of the eggplant slices on a platter.  Spoon 1 to 2 teaspoons goat cheese over the eggplant, then top with 1 basil leaf. Place a tomato slice over the basil and spread 1 to 2 teaspoons goat cheese over the tomato. Place a second eggplant slice over the goat cheese. Top with one teaspoon goat cheese and basil leaf.  Lightly drizzle 2 to 3 teaspoons  Tomato Coulis
over and around the eggplant stack. Garnish with one teaspoon grated Pecorino Romano cheese.  Serve immediately.
Tomato Coulis:
Makes about 1 cup
1 pound ripe plum tomatoes, peeled and seeded (see below), coarsely chopped
1 small garlic clove, minced
1 tablespoon extra-virgin olive oil
1/2 teaspoon salt, or to taste
1/2 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper
Combine tomatoes, garlic and olive oil in bowl of food processor.  Process until smooth.  Add salt and pepper. Let stand at room temperature for one hour before serving.  (Coulis may be made one day in advance. Cover and refrigerate). Serve at room temperature.
Cooking Class – How to Peel and Seed a Tomato:
1.  Take a paring knife and cut out the stem: Make shallow incisions around the stem and scoop out the stem .
2.  With same knife, make a shallow X-incision in bottom of tomato.
3.  Bring a saucepan of water to a rolling boil.  Plunge tomato into water for 10 seconds.  Remove and submerge in a bowl of ice water.
4.  Remove the cooled tomato from the water.  Peel away skin.
5.  To seed the tomato, cut the tomato in half.  Use your fingers to scoop out seeds.
Share this: Click to print (Opens in new window) Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window) Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window) Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window) Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window) Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window) More Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)
9 Comments
Posted in
Appetizers ,
Italy ,
Vegetables and Salads ,
Vegetarian
Tagged
appetizer ,
eggplant ,
recipe ,
salad
Summer Solstice Danish-Style
Posted on
June 20, 2009
|
Comments Off
on Summer Solstice Danish-Style
Denmark is the land of the (nearly) midnight sun. The sun sets just before 11:00 in the evening, only to begin its ascent again in the wee hours of the morning. In a land where the winters are long and very dark, it is no wonder that celebrations, and even a God or two, have been delegated to give thanks and perhaps curry favor with the fiery powers that be. Summer Solstice, or
Sankt Hans Aften
(which means the eve of St. John the Baptist Day), is the height of these jubilations, as it celebrates the longest day of the year. Bonfires are lit, and food and drink are plentiful, as the Vikings of yesteryear, and in spirit, party and feast until dawn.
This year we will attempt our own celebration on a nearby beach.  We will light a bonfire and have a picnic dinner as the sun sets.  It is likely that we will forego the authentic tradition of burning an effigy over the fire, as that may not go over too well with the local residents and could quite possibly get us arrested.  (Proper solstice tradition would have a straw witch burned over the fire.  This symbolizes the riddance of problems, worries, and threats from people’s lives.)
Food typically associated with the solstice celebration is simple picnic fare: grilled fish or meat, fresh boiled local crayfish (which can be a party unto itself) and remoulade sauce, potato salad, green salad and a dessert featuring summer strawberries.  All of this would be accompanied, Viking-style, by beer,
snaps
and wine throughout the evening.
Share this: Click to print (Opens in new window) Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window) Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window) Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window) Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window) Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window) More Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)
Comments Off
on Summer Solstice Danish-Style
Posted in
Uncategorized
Tagged
Denmark ,
Solstice
Summer Solstice NOMA-Style
Posted on
June 17, 2009
|
3 comments
Last summer we were in Denmark visiting friends and family during the summer solstice.  Miraculously, we managed to get a coveted dinner reservation at the acclaimed Copenhagen restaurant NOMA, and realized that our luck was only due to the general population out partying in traditional solstice-style on beaches before bonfires rather than in restaurants.  Seizing our opportunity, we invited our Danish friends and hosts (who were more than happy to abandon tradition for a table at NOMA) to join us.
That evening, we dined on a fabulous prix-fixe menu consisting of 7 courses composed exclusively of ingredients hailing from Nordic countries.  (NOMA is an acronym for
Nordisk   Mad
– or Nordic Food in Danish.)  A visit to this restaurant is highly recommended if you are in Copenhagen, although advance reservations are a must. It is a fantastic collaboration between Danish chefs Claus Meyer and René Redzepi.  All ingredients originate from Denmark, Sweden, Norway, Iceland, Greenland and the Faroe Islands.  They run from the familiar to the exotic: eel, musk ox, green strawberries, hare, seaweed, rye bread, black lobster are a few examples (quite out of context.)  You may feast on dishes such as
Sautéed Dover Sole with New Danish Potatoes, Green Strawberries and Elderberry Sauce
perhaps accompanied by
Stirred Mashed Potatoes with Lumpfish Roe and Crispy Chicken Skin , and finish with
Caramel Ice Cream with Icelandic Buttermilk, Dried Swedish Berries and Sorrel Crème Anglaise .
I enjoy poring over the NOMA Nordic Cuisine cookbook, which I bought as a memento after our meal. It is an inspirational and unique testament to Nordic terroir, and apropos several interesting blogs that attempt to prepare every single recipe in a particular tome of a cookbook, I would seriously have a go at reproducing NOMA’s – if only I could get my hands on chickweed, seakale and sweet cicely.  For now, I do what I always do and improvise with the seasonal and local products I find in my part of the world.
As we drove home after our long dinner, it was approaching midnight.  To the west the sun had just set and exited the sky in a swirl of orange and purple flourishes in its haste to rise again. To the east it was doing just that, where the sky was brightening and soft pink tinges nudged the gray-blue midnight summer sky.  It was truly a magical Danish solstice moment.
Share this: Click to print (Opens in new window) Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window) Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window) Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window) Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window) Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window) More Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)
3 Comments
Posted in
Copenhagen ,
Denmark ,
Restaurants: Copenhagen ,
Travel
Tagged
Denmark ,
NOMA
Fattoush Salad
Posted on
June 14, 2009
|
2 comments
~
Fattoush is a Middle Eastern salad made with fresh garden vegetables and toasted bread.  It’s similar in concept to the Italian bread salad, panzanella, a traditional rustic recipe using day-old bread tossed with salad and “refreshed” with dressing.  Fattoush has a significant Middle Eastern influence, with the addition of sumac which gives the salad its characteristically sour flavor, as well as feta cheese, kalamata olives, parsley, coriander, and mint.
Fattoush Salad
Toasted pita bread adds an addictive crunch to this salad. When the grill is going, I like to grill the pita for extra flavor.  Serves 4-6 as a light main course or 6-8 side salads.
For the vinaigrette:
1 small garlic clove, minced
2 tablespoons freshly squeezed lemon juice
1 tablespoon red wine vinegar
1/4 teaspoon dried cumin seed
1/4 teaspoon dried sumac
1/2 teaspoon salt, or to taste
1/2 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper, or to taste
1/2 cup extra-virgin olive oil
For the salad:
2 large pita breads
2 cups arugula leaves
1 head romaine lettuce, washed
1 small bunch (about 1/2 cup) Italian parlsey leaves
1 small bunch (about 1/2 cup) fresh cilantro/coriander leaves
1 small bunch (about 1/2 cup) fresh mint leaves
1 pint cherry or grape tomatoes, halved lengthwise
1/2  English cucumber, quartered lengthwise, thinly sliced
1 small red onion, thinly sliced
1 cup kalamata olives
1/2 cup crumbled feta cheese, plus extra for garnish
Prepare the vinaigrette:
Mix all of the ingredients, except the olive oil, together in a small bowl. Whisk in olive oil in a steady stream until emulsified.
Prepare salad:
Preheat oven broiler. Brush pita bread with olive oil. Sprinkle with a little salt and pepper.  Cut each pita circle in 6 triangles.  Toast in oven, turning once, until crispy and golden. Remove from heat and cool.  Break into pieces.
Toss two-thirds of the pita with the arugula, romaine, parsley, cilantro and mint in a large bowl. Scatter the tomatoes, cucumber, onion, olives and feta over the salad. Drizzle with half of the dressing and toss to combine. Add additional vinaigrette to taste.  Serve garnished with extra feta.
Share this: Click to print (Opens in new window) Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window) Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window) Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window) Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window) Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window) More Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)
2 Comments
Posted in
Appetizers ,
Vegetables and Salads ,
Vegetarian
Tagged
Fattoush ,
recipe ,
salad
My Big Fat Greek Dinner
Posted on
June 8, 2009
|
2 comments
When it’s hot outside, the food I crave is Greek. These Greek-inspired lamb kebabs are packed with herbs, spices and the heat of cayenne.  They are positively addictive and perfect for a party and easy entertaining.  Nearly everything can be prepared in advance,
and
a barbeque is required.  What more could you ask for?  Oh, yes: Good friends, great wine and perhaps a little  Ouzo .
To complete the menu, serve these spicy, more-ish kebabs with smoky, Middle-Eastern harissa and creamy, garlicky tsatsiki.  Accompany with a greek salad brimming with garden fresh vegetables, feta cheese and kalamata olives and roasted potatoes. By the end of the meal your tastebuds will be singing, and your guests will be begging for more.
Grilled Spiced Lamb Kebabs
Makes 16
16 small bamboo skewers
2 lbs./1 kg. ground lamb
1 medium yellow onion, finely chopped, about 1 cup
4 garlic cloves, minced
1/2 cup finely chopped fresh mint
1/2 cup finely chopped fresh coriander/cilantro
2 teaspoons ground cumin
2 teaspoons salt
2 teaspoons freshly ground black pepper
1 teaspoon paprika
1 teaspoon ground coriander
1 teaspoon cayenne
Exta-virgin olive oil
Fresh mint or basil leaves
Pita bread
Tsatsiki
Harissa
Soak bamboo skewers in warm water 30 minutes before assembling kebabs.  Drain.
Combine all the ingredients in a bowl.  Mix well.  Gather a small handful of the meat in your hand and form it lengthwise around a skewer so that the meat is covering 3/4 of the skewer.  Place on plate or tray.
Repeat with remaining meat and skewers.  Lightly brush the kebabs with olive oil.  (Kebabs can be prepared to this point up to 6 hours in advance.  Cover with plastic wrap and refrigerate.  Remove from refrigerator 30 minutes before grilling.)
Grill on barbeque or in oven, turning to brown all sides, until cooked through, about 10 minutes.  Arrange on plates or serving platter and garnish with fresh mint or basil leaves.  Serve with pita bread, tsatsiki and harissa.
Share this: Click to print (Opens in new window) Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window) Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window) Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window) Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window) Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window) More Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)
2 Comments
Posted in
Greece ,
Kitchen Table Philosophy ,
Main Course ,
Meat ,
Vegetables and Salads ,
Wine and food pairings
Tagged
barbecue ,
Greek ,
grilled ,
lamb kebabs ,
meat ,
recipe ,
summer
Spaghetti alla Norma: Sicilian-Style Pasta with Eggplant, Tomatoes, Basil and Ricotta
Posted on
June 4, 2009
|
4 comments
This divine Sicilian pasta dish often elicits the question: Who is Norma?  Theories abound, and one of them is that the dish was named in honor of Bellini, a native of Catania, Sicily.  Bellini’s opera “Norma” was so popular with his compatriots, that it inspired the creation of a new superlative –
una vera Norma –
to sing praise of any good deed or object.  Years later, the author Nino Martaglio tasted this traditional dish from Sicily and was so delighted by it that he called in
Spaghetti alla Norma .  You will agree that this dish is
una vera Norma.
Sicilian-Style Pasta with Eggplant, Tomatoes, Basil and Ricotta
–   Spaghetti alla Norma
Serves 4
1 large firm eggplant (aube rgine)
Extra-virgin olive oil
Salt and freshly ground black pepper
2 tablespoons extra-virgin olive oil
I small yellow onion, finely chopped
2 garlic cloves, minced
1 28 oz./800 g. can Italian plum tomatoes
2 tea spoons dried oregano
Pinch of sugar
1 lb./500 g. dried spaghetti
1/2 cup shaved Ricotta Salata or Pecorino Romano cheese, plus extra for garnish
Handful fresh basil leaves
Fresh buffalo mozzarella, cut in slivers
Prepare the eggplant:
Trim ends.  Cut horizontally in 1/4″ slices. Arrange in one layer on baking tray.  Brush with olive oil and sprinkle with salt and pepper.  Grill in oven, turning once, until browned and softened.  Remove.  Cut the slices in thirds.  Set aside.
Prepare tomato sauce:
Heat two tablespoons olive oil in skillet over medium-high heat.  Add onion and sauté until it begins to give off juices, about 2 minutes.  Add garlic and sauté one minute.  Add tomatoes with juices and oregano.  Simmer 10 minutes, stirring to break up tomatoes.  Add sugar.  Stir in eggplant slices and simmer additional 10 minutes.  Season with salt and pepper to taste.
While the sauce is cooking, bring a large pot of salted water to a boil.  Add spaghetti and cook until
al dente .  Drain.  Return spaghetti to pot and add eggplant mixture.  Add 1/2 cup ricotta salata.  Toss to combine.  Serve garnished with fresh basil leaves, slivers of buffalo mozzarella cheese and extra ricotta salata.
Share this: Click to print (Opens in new window) Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window) Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window) Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window) Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window) Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window) More Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)
4 Comments
Posted in
Italy ,
Main Course ,
Pasta ,
Wine and food pairings
Tagged
eggplant ,
Italian ,
norma ,
pasta ,
recipe
My book:
Follow
Facebook
Instagram
Pinterest
RSS
Twitter
Search TasteFood
Search for:
Get the latest post delivered to you free via email.
Enter your email address to follow this blog and receive free notifications of new posts by email.
Like TasteFood on Facebook:
Like TasteFood on Facebook:
Recipe Index Appetizers
Breads, Pasta, Rice, Grains
Chicken
Condiment
Desserts
Fish and Shellfish
Gluten-free
Lamb
Legumes
Marinades
Meat
Pasta
Pizza
Pork
Poultry
Soups and Stews
Tians and Casseroles
Vegetables and Salads
Vegetarian
Beverages
Cooking for Your Health
Recent Posts
Smashing Roots
Caramelized Onion Tart with Gruyere
Smoky Chipotle Glazed Ribs
Roasted Figs with Prosciutto, Goat Cheese and Rosemary
In Praise of Lentils and a recipe for Soup
Gemelli Pasta with Roasted Tomatoes, Arugula, and Olive Oil Breadcrumbs
Back to School Basics: Easy Granola
Upside Down Baking: Raspberry, Fig and Almond Cake
Pomegranate Chicken Skewers with Yogurt, Pistachios, and Mint
Hot and Sweet Pepper Crostini
Squash Blossom Pizza with Sweet Peppers, Onion, and Pecorino
BLT Salad with Avocado and Grilled Croutons
30 minute Dinners: Spaghetti with Shrimp, Broccolini and Basil
Duck Crostini with Radicchio Slaw and Roasted Apricots
Asparagus Carbonara
Greek Tabbouleh Salad
Lisbon Snapshots #TasteFoodTravel
Summer Berry Spritzers and a Mojito
Strawberry Cake
Ricotta Beet Bruschette with Garden Pesto
Archives
Archives
Select Month
October 2015
September 2015
August 2015
July 2015
June 2015
May 2015
April 2015
March 2015
February 2015
January 2015
December 2014
November 2014
October 2014
September 2014
August 2014
July 2014
June 2014
May 2014
April 2014
March 2014
February 2014
January 2014
December 2013
November 2013
October 2013
September 2013
August 2013
July 2013
June 2013
May 2013
April 2013
March 2013
February 2013
January 2013
December 2012
November 2012
October 2012
September 2012
August 2012
July 2012
June 2012
May 2012
April 2012
March 2012
February 2012
January 2012
December 2011
November 2011
October 2011
September 2011
August 2011
July 2011
June 2011
May 2011
April 2011
March 2011
February 2011
January 2011
December 2010
November 2010
October 2010
September 2010
August 2010
July 2010
June 2010
May 2010
April 2010
March 2010
February 2010
January 2010
December 2009
November 2009
October 2009
September 2009
August 2009
July 2009
June 2009
May 2009
April 2009
March 2009
February 2009
January 2009
December 2008
November 2008
October 2008
September 2008
August 2008
July 2008
June 2008
May 2008
April 2008
March 2008
© Copyright Reserved:
Unless otherwise noted, all written text, recipes and photographs are Copyright of Lynda Balslev ©2008-2015. Material may not be duplicated, published or re-written without prior consent. All rights reserved.
This work is licensed under a
Creative Commons Attribution-Noncommercial-No Derivative Works 3.0 United States License .
Powered by
WordPress.com VIP Privacy Policy
Privacy Policy
Proudly powered by WordPress.
Theme: Coraline by
WordPress.com .
Follow
Follow “TasteFood”
Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.
Join 4,147 other followers
Build a website with WordPress.com
Send to Email Address
Your Name
Your Email Address
Cancel
Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.