Twenty-four hours in Milan: What to do? - Stephen Baker
Book Details
Excerpts
Reviews
Book Details
Excerpts
Videos
Reviews
Book Details
Excerpts
Videos
Reviews
Smart Data Collective
Flowing Data (visualizations)
Tim Graham's Data Blog
DataMining (Matthew Hurst)
IBM's Many Eyes (tools to visualize your data)
Blogspotting (a BusinessWeek blog, 2005-2009)
Home
- Viewing one post
Twenty-four hours in Milan: What to do?
March 29, 2012 General
I flew over to Milan , gave two speeches (about data or, as the Italians refer to them,
dati ) and then had a little more than 24 hours to enjoy myself in the city. As I was coming to grips with all the possibilities--would I be able to get a ticket to see Leonardo's Last Supper?-- the world-famous Barcelona soccer team was moving into my hotel and my whole neighborhood was gearing up for a Milan-Bar ç a showdown.
Turned out I couldn't score a ticket for Leonardo or the soccer game. So I went to art museums, starting with the
Pinocoteca de Brera.
There I saw an Andrea Mantegna of the dead Christ, a painting whose date (circa 1475) I had to memorize for an art history class decades ago. He was experimenting with perspective and foreshortening, or
scorzo . But I have to say, I looked at the painting for about 10 minutes and couldn't get over the impression that his Christ had tiny legs.
Before I left for Milan, I grabbed a William Trevor book,
My House in Umbria , from the shelves. I later came across a quote in it that summed up my experience at the Pinocoteca: "Pictures of angels and saints, and the Virgin with the baby Jesus, are very pretty and are of course to be delighted in, but one after another can be too much of a good thing."
Of course, as Mantenga demonstrates, not all of them are especially pretty. This didn't stop me, however, from walking across the vast Cathedral square, where Barcelona and Milanese soccer fans were chanting and taunting each other, to the Palazzo Reale, where they had an exhibit of
Titian and 16th century landscape paintings . I went to buy my ticket, and when the woman told me it would cost 9 euros, I must have looked a little startled. So she told me that if I was retired, a student or... a
journalist , I could get in for free. I walked in and promised to blog about it.
The first painting I saw was a magnificent small
Bellini , which blew away everything I'd seen at the Pinocoteca. My sad little smart-phone image doesn't begin to do it justice. Yes, there is a crucifix prominently placed. But the scenery,
il paesaggio , is what makes it.
Crucifixion, Giovanni Bellini, circa 1490
I was planning to eat royally in Milan. But I was alone, so I just dined
at neighborhood joints, pasta one night, risotto the next. The one thing
that surprised me was that when I ordered salads, the waiters both
nights plunked a liter of olive oil on the table, along with a big bottle of
vinegar. This was Do it Yourself in a big way.  Below, a street with springtime budding in Milan.
7 comments
[view]
7 comments
[hide]
add comment
share:
Your browser doesn't support inline comment display.
Click here to view the comments.
©2015 Stephen Baker Media, All rights reserved.
Site by Infinet Design
Kirkus Reviews -
https://www.kirkusreviews.com/book-reviews/stephen-baker/the-boost/
LibraryJournal - Library Journal
Booklist Reviews - David Pitt
Locus -
Paul di Filippo
read
more reviews
Prequel to The Boost: Dark Site
- December 3, 2014
The Boost: an excerpt
- April 15, 2014
My horrible Superbowl weekend, in perspective
- February 3, 2014
My coming novel: Boosting human cognition
- May 30, 2013
Why Nate Silver is never wrong
- November 8, 2012
The psychology behind bankers' hatred for Obama
- September 10, 2012
"Corporations are People": an op-ed
- August 16, 2011
Wall Street Journal excerpt: Final Jeopardy
- February 4, 2011
Why IBM's Watson is Smarter than Google
- January 9, 2011
Rethinking books
- October 3, 2010
The coming privacy boom
- August 17, 2010
The appeal of virtual
- May 18, 2010
http://www.googleadservices.com/pagead/conversion/984267054/?label=3D7QCNryngIQrvKq1QM&guid=ON&script=0"/>