Couture into art (and vice versa) – Il Teatro alla Moda | Examiner.com
Skip to main content
Report this ad
In Life:
Home & Living Pets Style & Fashion Family & Parenting Health & Fitness
Facebook Twitter Google Plus Search
Life
Style & Fashion
Fashion Trends
See also:
Wallis Annenberg Center for the Performing Arts
Missoni
Couture into art (and vice versa) – Il Teatro alla Moda
November 14, 2011
12:32 PM MST
Facebook
Twitter
Pinterest
Linkedin
Google Plus
Comment
Okay – while we’re on the subject of museum shows…..
Oh – that’s right.
I was going to go back to
Rodarte , etc.
Well – just think of this as a bit of
etc.
before the wrap-up.
Besides it occurred to me that I’m going to have to find a way to fold in, or at least consider something I happened across only a week or so after the Hammer event – something a colleague of mine wrote about
Alec Soth
that appeared in the September/October 2011 issue of
artillery Magazine .
Besides – it’s just after the week-end:
think arts, leisure, culture – yeah, more museum shows (at least during the day) – and have I ever got one for you.
Philipp Scholz Rittermann
View all
6 photos
Philipp Scholz Rittermann, courtesy Wallis Annenberg Center for the Performing Arts
In lieu of venting and lamenting about the museum fashion shows that never come to LACMA, here’s one that the
Annenberg Center
brought to its temporary space at Beverly Drive and Dayton (a block north of Wilshire) in Beverly Hills.
Il Teatro alla Moda
belies its name with excessive modesty.
It is more about the design talent of the very best (mostly Italian) haute couture fully integrated into the artistic concept and execution of an operatic or theatrical production.
The show focuses primarily on Italian couture designers, although both
Emmanuel Ungaro
and
Karl Lagerfeld
(for
Fendi ) are featured in the line-up (presumably for Italian productions:
the Lagerfeld costumes – in denim – were for a production of
Carmen ; I’m not sure about the Ungaro – I saw the show the week of its opening, and my notes are woefully incomplete.
I think my pen dropped from my hand, as my jaw eventually dropped to the floor in awe).
I’m thinking there was at least one
Lacroix
and possibly a
Viktor & Rolf
piece; but I could be hallucinating their presence here.
(Lacroix of course has designed fairly extensively for the opera and ballet in France; and had the show’s focus veered further away from Italian designers, I can’t imagine that his work wouldn’t have been featured extensively.)
In addition to the costumes for opera and ballet, there are also designs for special concert or recital appearances by those rare birds of the big stage we call
divas
– leaving no doubt that next to the talent, the training, the management, conductor and/or choreographer, a diva’s best friend is her couturier.
These are not ladies to leave so much as a seam to chance.
One thing you have to say about the Italians (as if
Vogue Italia
couldn’t tell you as much), they really understand
luxury .
You’re almost overwhelmed with it with your first step into the show.
The first two designs are by
Roberto Capucci ; and you should savor them now, because the
Capucci show
up in
Philadelphia
right now is not heading this way any time soon.
Capucci was not necessarily a designer who always took his design to the level of art.
But he understood extravagance gesturally and materially, and his couture is made for spectacle.
That said, the first gown you see – designed for a concert appearance by
Anna Caterina Antonacci
– is relatively modest:
a one-shouldered tunic gown in silk georgette, cut along the lines of the classic Roman
chlamys , the folds in subtle parallel lines in geranium shades of rose, amber and gold.
Not enough for you?
The high priestess’s tunic gown in white silk taffeta, embellished with silver sequins, cording and black beading, designed for a production of
Bellini ’s
Norma , is simply spectacular.
From breathtaking to ecstatic – and there’s
more .
The African-inspired
Missoni
for the 1990 World Cup opening ceremonies are accompanied by beautiful concept sketches and illustrations by Maria Pezzi and Richard Sciberras for the label and ingenious knit patterns by Tai
MIssoni
himself.
A gown in a rectilinear mesh of sapphire-silver metallic material (it looks almost like mylar) designed by
Romeo Gigli
for the Queen of the Night in a production of
Die Zauberflöte , with the skirt divided and extended into trains that stretch by more than one body length away from the body is surrealism extended to the realm of science fiction.
And I could
go on .
The good news is: (a) I’ll be able to; and (b) you’ll still be able to see the show (which had been scheduled to close this week-end).
It’s been extended to
December 18th .
The costumes by
Gianni Versace
are worth another post by themselves.
(I’ll leave you with a few teasers by way of the slide gallery – including a costume for the Diaghilev-Stravinsky ballet,
The Firebird , and a
Sonia Delaunay
inspired, beaded gown for
Kiri Te Kanawa ’s performance in
Strauss ’s
Capriccio .)
Whatever you do, don’t miss it.
Report this content
Share
this article
Facebook
Twitter
Pinterest
Linkedin
Google Plus
Comment
Subscribe
to author
Comments
Ezrha Jean Black LA Luxury Style Examiner Ezrha Jean Black, staff writer for Artillery art magazine, is a writer, critic, investigative researcher, and blogger based in Los Angeles.
Moving freely between the art world, the film and music industries, and L.A.'s design, fashion and literary communities -- the criss-crossing lanes of L.A.'s cultural freeway -- continuously shapes, morphs and sharpens her eye for style.
She can be contacted through Artillery Magazine or directly at ezrhajeanblack@hotmail.com.
Twitter
Contact me
Featured
Video
Related
stories
Disneyland and Irvine Spectrum Center host a 'Disney Magical Holiday Lights'
Timberland’s newest Premium Brogue Boot from the Chestnut Quartz collection
The List: Top 5 fashion schools in California
Tutorials to create Great Gatsby inspired hairstyles
Cubic zirconia and Swarovski crystals, what's the difference?
Life
highlights
The American Academy of Pediatrics urges raising legal smoking age to 21 The effect of nicotine on developing brains is one of the main reasons the AAP is recommending raising the legal age to purchase tobacco. Both cigarettes and e-cigarettes have neurotoxic effects...
Camera
Be a dinner hero: This delicious taco salad can be whipped up in a matter of minutes There is no one recipe for taco salad. Ground beef, ground turkey, or chicken are all good protein options. Most taco salads include some kind of lettuce or greens. Chances are tomatoes will also...
Report this ad
POPULAR
in STYLE & FASHION
Disneyland and Irvine Spectrum Center host a 'Disney Magical Holiday Lights'
Halloween costumes 2015: Most popular costume ideas, themes for adults & kids
Timberland’s newest Premium Brogue Boot from the Chestnut Quartz collection
The List: Top 5 fashion schools in California
Tutorials to create Great Gatsby inspired hairstyles
Cubic zirconia and Swarovski crystals, what's the difference?
Get the celebrity looks for less, just in time for the holidays
Philadelphia most stylish influencer Denise Dougherty
Kendall and Kylie Jenner being sued for copying Florida-based company's motto
Top 5 best resale shops in St. Louis
TRENDING
on EXAMINER.COM
Final Jeopardy answer costs contestant $6000 as she unwittingly insults liberals
Three pit bulls rescued from Florida storm drain
Heartbroken dog begs his owner not to abandon him at shelter
Stunned passengers watch huge dog roll into first class on airplane
Skeletal dog fights for her life in Phoenix
Undercover sting results in arrest of man who wanted to have sex with animals
D'Arcee Neal: Severely disabled man on plane crawls down aisle
Saudi prince drug smuggling on private plane: Will Saudi prince be beheaded?
Megalodon teeth from mouth of 60-ft shark: Jaw-dropping find on N.C. shore
Florida hunter blows life away of nearly blind, old 'Grandfather Bear'
Report this ad
Report this ad
Facebook
Twitter
Linkedin
Google+
Pinterest
Company Links
About us
OnTopic custom content
The Rowdy
Advertise with us
Sitemap
Examiner.com Entertainment
| AXS Network | © 2006-2015 AXS Digital Group LLC d/b/a
Examiner.com |
Privacy Policy
|
Terms of Use
|
About us
Choose a Topic
Arts & Entertainment Arts & Entertainment Music Movies TV Arts & Exhibits Performing Arts Reality TV Celebrity Pop Culture Animation Young Adult Fiction Books Movie Reviews Comic Books AXS Entertainment AXS Entertainment Music Movies TV Arts & Exhibits Performing Arts NFL NHL MLB NBA Fight Sports Soccer Recreational Sports Reality TV Music Festivals News News Top News International News Strange News Science & Space Politics Elections Environment Extreme Weather Government Crime & Courts Business & Finance Same-Sex Marriage Small Business Stock Market Gun Control Global Warming Personal Finance Democrat Republican Political Buzz Marketing and PR Immigration Life Life Home & Living Pets Style & Fashion Family & Parenting Health & Fitness Education Religion & Spirituality Weight Loss & Dieting Weddings Gardening Home Improvement Relationships Green Living Nutrition Neighborhoods Careers & Workplace Sales & Deals Healthcare Jobs Hobbies Leisure Leisure Food & Drink Travel Spa & Beauty Autos & Motorcycles Bars & Clubs Recipes Drinks Budget Travel DIY Mechanic Auto Reviews Natural Beauty Luxury Travel Makeup Hair & Nails Sports Sports MLB NFL NBA NHL Soccer Fight Sports Recreational Sports College Sports General Sports Fantasy Sports Motorsports Hunting & Fishing Hiking Camping Running Equestrian Water Sports Action Sports Endurance Sports Recreation Tech Tech Gadgets & Tech Video Games Internet Tech Gear Tablets iPhone Google Glass Wearable Tech Xbox One Playstation 4 Photography MMOGs Handheld Games Facebook Anonymous Social Media Consoles Bitcoin Google Twitter Video Log In / Register Write for Us
Search