September | 2010 | Life Is Fare
Life Is Fare
One woman's approach to living life to the fullest by eating happy food.
Skip to content
Home Why I’m Blogging What’s in It for You? Who’s Bill? Cooking Videos My Cookbooks About Chez Marcita
Monthly Archives:
September 2010
←
Older posts
Have You Heard the One About the New Name for Corn Syrup?
Posted on
September 25, 2010
|
2 comments
I’m a bit behind on the news, being a blogger on
hiatus , but I wanted to share this news from
The Hufffington Post  from about 10 days ago: “The makers of high fructose corn syrup [HFCS] want to sweeten its image with a new name: corn sugar.”
Hoping to clear up confusion, the
Corn Refiners Association  has asked the federal government for permission to use “corn sugar” in place of HFCS  ever since Americans’ consumption of corn syrup has fallen to a 20-year low. Why the drop in sales? Because everyone knows that HFCS is a
factor in obesity .
While it may take the Food and Drug Administration two years to decide on the name,  the Corn Refiners Association is already using it in advertising, including an online marketing campaign ( Cornsugar.com ) and  two new commercials
that try to alleviate shopper confusion, showing people who say they now understand that “whether it’s corn sugar or cane sugar, your body can’t tell the difference.
Sugar is sugar .”
The problem isn’t what kind of sweetener high fructose corn syrup is; the issue is that the corn industry has been
adding it insidiously
to all kinds of foods that don’t need it, causing Americans to become addicted to it, and therefore driving them to buy more processed foods.
Read more about why
HFCS is not a good substitute for cane sugar .
2 Comments
Posted in
In the News
Tagged
Corn Refiners Association ,
cornsugar.com ,
HFCS ,
high fructose corn syrup ,
Industrialized Food
From My Mother’s Recipe Box: Sponge Cake
Posted on
September 22, 2010
|
6 comments
When was the last time you had sponge cake? For me, it was probably at a church function when I was a kid. I don’t know if anyone makes sponge cake anymore but I don’t make a point of seeking out a recipe for it since I’m not big on desserts. Yet, this Sponge Cake recipe from
My Mother’s Recipe Box  caught my eye because of its simplicity in ingredients and technique. Oh, and one little detail in the bottom right-hand corner of the card.
First, the simplicity: One of the reasons I’m posting these old recipes is because so many people, especially in the U.S., have lost the art of cooking. Sharing recipes on these 3×5 cards doesn’t seem as popular anymore either, with so many resources available on the internet. Look at how Mrs. Blanche McNamara typed up this recipe to make it fit on an index card. There aren’t many ingredients to begin with; on top of that, the instructions are short and easy to follow.
And, the detail at the bottom right-hand corner? Apparently Blanche goes by the nickname, “Mack.” Sure wish I had had the opportunity able to meet Mack.
6 Comments
Posted in
My Mother's Recipe Box ,
Recipes
Tagged
desserts ,
food ,
food blog ,
foodie ,
My Mother's Recipe Box ,
sponge cake
Stocking Up for Winter: One Mixed Quarter of Grassfed Beef
Posted on
September 16, 2010
|
8 comments
I get lots of questions when I tell people
Bill
and I buy our meat in bulk. How much does it cost? Where do you get it? What’s the process? Where do you store it?
So I thought I’d share our beef purchasing experience with you since today’s the day I picked up our quarter of a cow and stored it in our freezer.
First of all, all farmers have their own process, but in general, you put in an order for meat way in advance, paying a small deposit, so they can raise your animal. In our case, last March we ordered beef, pork, and lamb from
Lubbers Farm , which we
visited
last fall (in Grand Rapids, Michigan) so we could learn where and how the animals were raised. We were pleased with what we saw.
To find a farm that raises pastured animals where you live you can search on
EatWild.com .
A few weeks ago I got a call from Mike at
Mike’s Deer Processing
in Allendale, Michigan. He said our cow was going to be slaughtered soon so he wanted to take our order for processing. That means answering questions like “Ground beef or stew meat?” “How many steaks per package?” “How many pounds per rump roast?” It does help to have an idea of the cuts of meat a butcher is referring to before having the conversation, so if you need a reference there are many
charts and posters
available online. But butchers are really good at walking you through the process.
So what’s a mixed quarter? Picture a cow (see above). If you want half a cow, you get all the parts on one side of the animal (not the front end or back end), but if you only want a quarter you would sacrifice certain cuts if you took the front right quarter or the rear left quarter. That’s why it’s called a “mixed” quarter, so everyone who’s buying quarters from the same cow gets an even distribution of the different cuts. It all fit into two boxes in the back of my car.
We chose to get a lot of ground beef because Bill makes a mean
grassfed beef burger .
Everyone always asks, how much do you pay per pound? That’s because most of us have been raised to consider cost first on anything we buy. But for Bill and me, we draw the line at food. So here’s the breakdown for the beef:
One mixed quarter of beef: $336.60 (includes $20 kill fee)
Butcher’s processing fee: $87.80
Deposit paid in March: $25
Total: $449.40
Up front, that’s a lot of money. If you divide the total by the 113 lbs. of beef we received, it costs $3.98 per pound. That’s still a lot of money from many points of view.
But think of it this way: While our ground beef may have cost $3.98 per pound, so did our prime rib, chuck roasts, short ribs, rump roast, t-bones, sirloins, and porterhouse steaks. And in the long run, that’s good for our health because we know we’re eating healthy, grassfed meat, locally raised without stress, hormones, or antibiotics. So we might have fewer trips to the doctor’s office as a result. Plus, we don’t eat beef every day. We vary our meals with vegetarian options so the meat lasts quite awhile.
Where do we store 113 pounds of beef? In our 11-cubic-foot upright freezer in the basement (sort of like
this one ), along with the soon-to-come half a pig, whole lamb, and various chickens. It’s a bit smaller than those huge chest freezers that most people buy. We like an upright one for ergonomic reasons.
If you don’t have room for a freezer or a big enough kitchen freezer, consider these options:
Store the meat at a friend’s or neighbor’s home and give them a roast or two for the favor.
Share the meat among a group of people.
Make room in the basement or garage by getting rid of that old rusty MG convertible that you’ll never drive and don’t have time to fix.
Hopefully, this information sheds a little light on how to buy grassfed beef from a local farmer. For more information about the benefits of grassfed meat, check out the
NRDC’s Top Ten Reasons to Eat Grassfed Meat .
8 Comments
Posted in
Buy Local ,
Grassfed meat ,
Happy Food
Tagged
Buy Local ,
food ,
food blog ,
foodie ,
grassfed beef ,
Grassfed meat ,
Happy Food ,
life is fare ,
locavore ,
Lubbers Farm ,
Mike's Deer Processing ,
you are what you eat
Know Your Farmer: Local Isn’t Always Better
Posted on
September 10, 2010
|
2 comments
Just because a dairy farm is in your back yard doesn’t mean it’s the one you want to buy milk–or beef–from. The Food and Drug Administration (FDA)  announced
August 31 that it’s seeking a court order against Scenic View Dairy of Hamilton, Michigan, not far from where I live. The FDA press release says that the dairy’s president and three of its managers “sold dairy cows for human consumption that contained illegal drug residues in edible tissues.”
It also alleges that “the defendants, despite numerous warnings, sold for slaughter dairy cows that were treated with drugs contrary to the drugs’ FDA-approved labeling and without a valid veterinary prescription authorizing such use. The complaint alleges that violations occurred from 2002 through 2010 at Scenic View Dairy’s three farms, located in Fennville, Freeport, and Gowen, Michigan.”
The complaint is based, in part, upon illegal neomycin, penicillin, and sulfadimethoxine drug residues that the USDA found in the edible tissue of dairy cows that defendants had offered for sale for human consumption. But FDA regulations for animal drugs include a specified time to withdraw an animal from treatment prior to slaughter so that a drug is depleted from edible tissue to levels safe for humans.
Scenic View Dairy buys cows primarily from New Hampshire, Pennsylvania and Vermont and sells to slaughterhouses in other states, including Pennsylvania and Wisconsin.
Another reason why it’s important to meet your local farmer–especially ones that raise grassfed and pastured meats–and go see the animals they’re raising for you. Ask questions.
Know your farmer .
2 Comments
Posted in
Buy Local ,
In the News ,
Industrialized Food
Tagged
Buy Local ,
food ,
food blog ,
foodie ,
Industrialized Food ,
life is fare ,
you are what you eat
Every Blogger Needs a Breather
Posted on
September 7, 2010
|
2 comments
I’m amazed it’s already been over a
year
since I launched Life Is Fare. That’s a lot of blog posts, considering I’ve published one almost every day. And sometimes, a blogger just needs a break.
Truth is, I’ve got a lot going on. For one thing, I’m working on a cookbook I hope to have done by the holidays. It focuses on main dishes for people with allergies–mostly wheat, dairy, and corn, since that’s the experience I’ve had while adapting recipes for
Bill .
And, I’ve got some exciting upcoming restaurant visits and food events I can’t wait to blog about. But first, I’ve decided to take a breather. Does that mean I’m abandoning my blog and you, the reader? No way. In fact, I hope my little break will enrich my content for all of us.
In actuality, I’ll continue to blog but it won’t be the almost daily cadence I’ve established since I began posting last summer. A recipe here and a news blurb there for sure.
I hope I haven’t disrupted anyone’s routine. Some of you subscribers will likely be glad to have one less email in your inboxes!
In the meantime, remember: You are what you eat. Life is fare.
2 Comments
Posted in
The Year of Food
Tagged
food blog ,
life is fare
Bellini Baubles
Posted on
September 6, 2010
|
Leave a comment
White peach juice is what makes a
Bellini  a Bellini. That plus Prosecco, and you’re golden. So last summer, when white peaches were in season, I pureed a whole bunch of them and froze the puree so
Bill  and I could enjoy Bellinis year-round. The problem was I put too much puree in my freezer containers and didn’t have enough Prosecco to balance it.
This year, the light bulb went off: Why not freeze the puree in ice cube trays so we’d have serving-size blocks of puree? I decided to call them Bellini Baubles.
I used white Saturn (or Doughnut) peaches from the market. Just remove the pits, peel them, and puree them in a juicer or blender. Then fill as many ice cube trays as you can.
Once they’re frozen in the tray, you simply dump them all into an airtight container and store them in the freezer.
Now, whenever I’m in the mood for a Bellini, I just open a bottle of Prosecco, put a bauble in a champagne flute, and pour Prosecco over it.
Our favorite brand is Zardetto.
Bill says he likes how cold the bauble makes the Prosecco. I like the simplicity of this drink. Sometimes we add a few raspberries.
You could also try
Bon Appetit’s
White Peach Summer Bellini
recipe if you want to make the drink with a more subtle peach flavor. And, if you don’t have white peaches, you can use yellow peaches, or even peach nectar.
If you’re not baker or jam-maker, this is a great way to preserve the summer harvest in your freezer and have a delicious refreshing drink any time of the year. We like them for breakfast with
oat cakes
on Sunday morning!
Leave a comment
Posted in
Good Food Deserves Good Wine ,
Produce from the Garden ,
Recipes
Tagged
Bellini ,
Buy Local ,
food ,
food blog ,
foodie ,
garden produce ,
Happy Food ,
life is fare ,
Recipes ,
white peaches ,
you are what you eat ,
Zardetto Prosecco
Tonight’s Special: Fried Grasshoppers
Posted on
September 5, 2010
|
4 comments
Photo via National Geographic
One major discussion going on currently is how the heck we’re going to continue to feed the
nearly 7 billion people
who populate this little planet called Earth. Switching to vegetarianism or even
flexitarianism
is a good first step for carnivores. But I was just reading in this month’s
National Geographic
magazine that the United Nation’s
Food and Agriculture Organization  (FAO) thinks switching to insects is even better. Yes, Americans, insects. I’m including myself when I cringe at the thought of frying up beetles, crickets, grasshoppers, and ants for a meal, but the McCricket might be a likely substitute for the Big Mac one day. With 12.9 grams of protein per a 100-gram serving, how can you go wrong?
For more protein, try the grasshopper, which is also loaded with phosphorous (238 mg) and packs 5 grams of iron as well as 35 mg of calcium. Or the water beetle, with 19.8 grams of protein, 14 mg of iron, 44 mg of calcium, and 226 mg of phosphorous.
Plus, insects can be farmed more cheaply and on less land, which means we can likely feed the world on them. Problem is, Americans–and many cultures in the West–are just not used to eating bugs. It’s just a mindset adjustment, isn’t it? Are you game?
4 Comments
Posted in
In the News
Tagged
cricket ,
FAO ,
food ,
food blog ,
foodie ,
grasshopper ,
insects ,
life is fare ,
National Geographic ,
United Nations' Food and Agriculture Organization ,
water beetle ,
you are what you eat
←
Older posts
Subscribe to Life Is Fare
Enter your email address to follow Life Is Fare and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Join 466 other followers
Topics
Buy Local
Cooking Videos
Detox
Eat Your Veggies
Eateries
Fellow Foodies
Food Over a Fire
Good Food Deserves Good Wine
Good Reading for Good Eating
Grassfed meat
Happy Food
In the News
Industrialized Food
Movies and Documentaries
My Mother's Recipe Box
Produce from the Garden
Recipes
Roadtrip Fare
The Fish Dilemma
The Year of Food
Travel
Uncategorized
What's for Breakfast?
Wheat-Free Corn-Free Dairy-Free Desserts
Wheat-Free Corn-Free Dairy-Free Dinners
Wheat-Free Corn-Free Dairy-Free Small Plates
Search Life Is Fare
Search for:
Archive
Archive
Select Month
April 2014
December 2013
November 2013
August 2013
July 2013
June 2013
May 2013
April 2013
March 2013
February 2013
January 2013
December 2012
November 2012
October 2012
September 2012
August 2012
July 2012
June 2012
May 2012
April 2012
March 2012
February 2012
January 2012
December 2011
November 2011
October 2011
September 2011
August 2011
July 2011
June 2011
May 2011
April 2011
March 2011
February 2011
January 2011
December 2010
November 2010
October 2010
September 2010
August 2010
July 2010
June 2010
May 2010
April 2010
March 2010
February 2010
January 2010
December 2009
November 2009
October 2009
September 2009
August 2009
Blogroll
Animal Welfare Approved:
Audits and certifies family farms that utilize high-welfare methods of farming.
Artisan Beef Institute:
An outreach, education, and now scientific research program targeted toward home cooks, professional chefs, grill meisters, and artisan farmers, ranchers, slaughterhouses, and butchers.
Chris Guillebeau's manifesto: 279 Days to Overnight Success
Discover the World of Artisan Beef:
Carrie Oliver helps discover and celebrate the true nature of meat.
Eat Wild.com –
The source for safe, healthy, natural and nutritious grass-fed meat, dairy and other wild edibles
Eating in Raleigh, NC
A blog about the importance of examining what we eat.
Farmsanctuary.org:
Works to end cruelty to farm animals
Fresh Start Nutrition
Melanie Zook, MA, RD, LDN, brings her professional background in nutrition, education, holistic health and the environment into the homes and lives of others.
Good Food Down on the Farm:
For people interested in good, healthy, natural food
Local Harvest.org –
a source for finding sustainably grown food in your area
Mallergies:
An interactive site focusing on the latest trends in food allergies
Summertime Market:
Eat local, buy local at this market in Douglas, Michigan
Sustainable Table:
a dictionary resource for people who care about what they eat
The Red Road:
Nick Taylor’s blog that chronicles his attempts to follow animism as a way of living.
The Skinny Daily Post
My buddy Juju who loves to cook, advocates home cooking for optimal nutrition, and loves simple, inexpensive 200-calorie, starch-free, sugar-free meals.
Fellow Foodies
101 Cookbooks:
Heidi Swanson’s recipe journal.
35 a Week:
Tips and recipes for making a lot out of a little
Agrigirl
A woman named Tammy who loves food and loves to write. She’s often fascinated with the life lessons that come from her kitchen.
Chocolate & Zucchini
Clotilde Dusoulier is a Parisian woman who shares her passion for all things food-related.
Eating Grand Rapids:
from food lover and adventurer Mackenna Morse in Grand Rapids, MI
Food by Kristin:
A holistic nutrition educator whose focus is on creating health through eating simple and delicious whole foods
Foodie Lady:
Recipes for taste-full people
Girl in an Apron
A woman who focuses on traditional, local and seasonal eating.
Healthy Food for Living:
from a woman who strives to find a balance between “eating to live” and “living to eat.”
Hope for Healing:
Discovering hope, health, and healing through nourishing gluten-free living.
Just a Little Piece:
A fellow writer and eater who loves to bake
Martha Rose Shulman
A writer whose cookbooks are devoted to eating well–meaning, food that is delicious and that makes you feel good.
My French Heaven
Cuisine, design, and joie de vivre of Stéphane Gabart
Our Food Choices(TM):
Two guys trying to figure out what to eat, where to find it and why it all matters
Rural Eating
Original recipes for the local food lifestyle
The Feast Nearby
The God's Cake:
From British guy who loves food, eating, and chocolate
The Mindful Kitchen:
From a woman who tries to live a life that is mindful
The Pearl Onion:
an exploration of the world of food
With Respect for Food:
Two foodies who are trying to eat responsibly
You Can Cook:
The chronicles of fellow foodie Ghadeer
Cookbooks for Sale Buy it in paperback or e-book: Nothing to Sneeze At: Main Dishes for People with Allergies
Follow on Facebook
Follow on Facebook
Follow Life Is Fare
Tags Bon Appetit
breakfast
Buy Local
carbon footprint
Christmas
Christmas cookies
cookies
corn-free
Crane Dance Farm
Creswick Farms
CSA
Cuba
dairy-free
Dan Barber
Daniel Klein
detox
E coli
eggs
Electric Cheetah
farmers' market
farm to table
feedlot meat
fish
food
food allergies
food blog
foodie
frittata
garden produce
gluten-free
GMO
Good Food for the Common Good
grassfed beef
grassfed eggs
Grassfed meat
Happy Food
herbs
HFCS
high fructose corn syrup
holiday baking
Holland Farmers' Market
Holland Farmers Market Chef Series
Hope College Critical Issues Symposium
Industrialized Food
Jonathan Safran Foer
lamb
life is fare
locavore
Lubbers Farm
Marcia Davis
Michael Pollan
Monsanto
My Mother's Recipe Box
Nature's Market
organic
pastured pork
pastured poultry
processed food
raw milk
recipe
Recipes
restaurants
soup
sustainable fishing
The Perennial Plate
USDA
vegan
vegetables
vegetarian
veggies
vintage recipes
Visser Farms
West Michigan Cooperative
wheat-free
you are what you eat
Blog at WordPress.com .
The Coraline Theme .
Life Is Fare
Create a free website or blog at WordPress.com .
The Coraline Theme .
Follow
Follow “Life Is Fare”
Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.
Join 466 other followers
Build a website with WordPress.com
Add your thoughts here... (optional)
Post to
Cancel