Brunch at Ken & Cook, New York | eyechow
eyechow
a travel-flavored food blog
Search
Main menu
Skip to primary content
Home About Blogroll Contact Current City Disclosure Press The USA Project Yoga
Post navigation
←
Previous
Next
→
Brunch at Ken & Cook, New York
Posted on
August 26, 2012
by
eyechow
When I was invited by
Ken & Cook
to brunch with them last Sunday, I was excited for two things: trying oysters for the first time, and getting to experience a relatively new restaurant that
I’d read
good things about. Not to mention that brunch is always something to look forward to.
Kiyo and I went around lunchtime, and we decided to order more food than we normally would so that we could try a well-rounded sampling of the menu. They seated us right on the edge of the restaurant, so we had a nice open-air view of passersby, but we weren’t directly on the sidewalk.
When I saw their $2 blue oyster deal, I knew that was what I needed to try. And as you can see, we each got one complimentary cocktail; Kiyo had a mimosa, and I had a
Bellini .
Little baguettes were the first item we were served, and I should have known right then that I would be stuffed after the feast that followed! I tore up my bread and saved a small piece to eat after the oysters, in case I didn’t like them and they left a strange taste in my mouth (they didn’t).
Let me just say that oysters are strange… they look strange, they taste strange, and strangest of all is their texture. Even David, the manager who invited me in, said he didn’t care for oysters. Kiyo thought they were good, and he said if he had them a few more times they would probably grow on him.
Kiyo showed me how to make sure it wasn’t stuck to the shell, and then I squeezed the lemon on top. I also added some of the champagne vinaigrette that came with it, and then I slurped it. That was when I realized I wasn’t sure if I should chew it or not, and in a moment of panic the strange, squishy oyster just sat in my mouth; then I swallowed without chewing, and it was a relief that it was all over. The actual taste of the oyster was neither pleasant nor unpleasant, but they slimy texture was unenjoyable for me. The whole experience was so novel and odd that I got a small adrenaline rush! But I will probably avoid oysters from now on.
The salads we had next more than made up for the whole oyster situation. Mine was of yellow and purple beets, avocado, radish, and  cress .  The crunchy radish perfectly contrasted the soft avocado, and the beets fell somewhere between.
This is the perfect salad for any meal, and I would love to be able to take it to work with me for a mid-day boost.
Also, look how beautiful it is!
Kiyo’s salad was equally delicious, even though it was much more traditional. His was bibb lettuce with tomatoes, croutons and ranch. The tomatoes were plump and soft, the croutons doused in olive oil, and the ranch was flavorful without being overbearing.
For our main course (yes, we ordered way too much food and I had to take some home!) Kiyo ordered the irresistible wagyu beef burger.
The cheese and caramelized onions on the extra soft, slightly sweet bun was heavenly. The same delicious tomatoes from the bibb salad came with it as well.
Kiyo ate all the fries and as much of the burger as he could manage (about three-quarters) which meant there was a little piece left for me to try. The burger looked and tasted like an upgrade from the usual, Shake-Shack style burger (which is also delicious, of course, but this one just felt a bit more formal, or high-class).
My brunch entrée was the perfect combination of breakfast and lunch: two poached eggs over biscuits with sausage gravy and home fries… amazing! David recommended this to me when I wasn’t sure what to order, and I’m so glad he did.
The gravy was the perfect flavor and consistency, with a good amount of meat. The biscuits were flaky but not dry. The home fries were clearly homemade, and were slightly oily, which is how I like them: extra soft and crispy.
The eggs were clearly cooked perfectly, and the whole dish pulled together to make a meal that I would gladly eat every week if I could. Luckily, I had a leftover biscuit with some gravy and home fries, which I reheated the next morning before work.
New York Magazine ‘s recent Restaurant Issue says that Ken & Cook is only open for dinner… that is clearly untrue! If you have the chance to brunch here, I would highly recommend it.
Ken & Cook
Location: 19 Kenmare St., New York NY 10012 Phone: (212) 966-3058
Share this: Twitter Facebook Email Pinterest Google Print Tumblr Like this: Like
Loading...
Related
This entry was posted in
North America
and tagged
alcohol ,
avocado ,
baguette ,
beef ,
beets ,
bellini ,
bibb lettuce ,
biscuits ,
biscuits and gravy ,
bread ,
breakfast ,
breakfast and brunch ,
brunch ,
burger ,
caramelized onion ,
champagne ,
cheese ,
cheeseburger ,
cocktails ,
cress ,
croutons ,
eggs ,
french fries ,
fries ,
gravy ,
homefries ,
lettuce ,
magazine ,
meat ,
mimosa ,
New York ,
New York City ,
Nolita ,
oil ,
olive oil ,
onions ,
Orange juice ,
oysters ,
radish ,
ranch ,
restaurant ,
salad ,
sausage ,
shellfish ,
Sunday Brunch ,
tomato ,
wagyu beef
by
eyechow . Bookmark the
permalink .
One thought on “ Brunch at Ken & Cook, New York ”
Wackadoo!
on
August 31, 2012 at 2:55 AM
said:
Great review! As a result, I’ll try this place and also recommend it to my colleagues! I put my trust in Eyechow. Best food blog I’ve seen!
Oysters: I find the best approach is, a drop of Tabasco, a touch of lemon juice and a good dash of Worchestershire sauce; then right over the throat, no chewing, then wash it back immediately with a slug of beer!
Reply
↓
Leave a Reply
Cancel reply
Enter your comment here...
Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:
Email
(Address never made public)
Name
Website
You are commenting using your WordPress.com account.
(  Log Out  /  Change  )
You are commenting using your Twitter account.
(  Log Out  /  Change  )
You are commenting using your Facebook account.
(  Log Out  /  Change  )
You are commenting using your Google+ account.
(  Log Out  /  Change  )
Cancel
Connecting to %s
Notify me of new comments via email.
Notify me of new posts via email.
Search
The Twenty Eleven Theme .
|
Blog at WordPress.com .
Follow
Follow “eyechow”
Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.
Join 725 other followers
Build a website with WordPress.com
Send to Email Address
Your Name
Your Email Address
Cancel
Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
%d
bloggers like this: