Online College Blog and School Reviews
| 10 Most Famous Bars in the World
Home
Blog
10 Most Famous Bars in the World
When traveling, visiting the local bars is just as important as exploring the local sights, museums, restaurants and cafes. It enables you to experience the area’s culture in an unfiltered manner, with, of course, the presence of a few brews or spirits unique to the establishment and region. Whether you’re a worldwide partier or the type who likes to kick back on the patio and absorb your surroundings, the following bars are worth adding to your agenda if you plan to visit the countries they serve.
The Blind Beggar — London, England :
The mystique of The Blind Beggar attracts patrons from all over the world. Built in 1894, it’s best remembered as the sight of the murder of The Richardson Gang’s George Cornell by Ronnie Kray, one of the Kray Twins. Fittingly, just prior to the ordeal, the barmaid changed the record in the jukebox to "The Sun Ain’t Gonna Shine Anymore" by The Walker Brothers. After the incident, the record eerily repeated "anymore." Not a fan of spooky London gangland history? You may be comforted to know the bar sits where the Salvation Army was founded — certainly a more positive fact.
OJ’s Restaurant and Beach Bar — Crab Hill Beach, Antigua : Unlike a few bars on this list, OJ’s isn’t trendy. Instead, it allows the views of the gleaming Crabb Hill beach and Montserrat’s active volcano to serve as its main attractions. Inside, it’s adorned with local artwork, artifacts and driftwood, encapsulating that calm and relaxed Caribbean feel. It’s a great place to unwind with a beer and/or cocktail and forget about the minutiae of everyday life.
Rex Hotel’s Rooftop Garden — Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam : Four decades ago, it served as
the
spot for U.S. GIs, officers and journalists to hang out amid the Vietnam War. The qualities appreciated by previous generations remain today — it features picturesque scenery, boasting beautiful greenery and overlooking Ho Chi Minh City. It’s open 24 hours and serves a delicious array of cocktails, so you never have to leave. According to a tally by its website,
Newsweek
named it "One of the Best Bars Of South East Asia" and American Travel Writer Patricia Shultz listed it as one of "1,000 places to see before you die."
Vertigo — Bangkok, Thailand : Another must-visit rooftop bar in Southeast Asia, Vertigo sits atop the Banyan Tree hotel, 61 floors above street level. Patrons enjoy breathtaking views of Bangkok’s cityscape as they sip on uniquely crafted cocktails and dine on savory seafood and steaks. If you’re afraid of heights, weather weary or don’t like dressing up before going out, you may have a better time elsewhere. It’s an experience in itself and not exactly a hole-in-the-wall type of place.
Harry’s Bar — Venice, Italy : A who’s who of celebrities have frequented Harry’s Bar, including Alfred Hitchcock, Woody Allen, Orson Welles, Charlie Chaplin, Truman Capote and Barbara Hutton. Founder Giuseppe Cipriani credited its creation to Bostonian Harry Pickering, who gave Cipriani 30,000 Lira as a gift for loaning him 10,000 Lira after he had a falling out with his aunt. Most locals, however, simply recognize the bar as the home of the
Bellini
and
Carpaccio .
Harry’s New York Bar — Paris, France : Paris’s Harry’s Bar features equally famous clientele. This one isn’t related to the one in Venice — the best bars in the world aren’t franchised — but it’s just as popular, attracting patrons such as Jack Dempsey, Knute Rockne, Ernest Hemingway, Humphrey Bogart and Rita Hayworth. Acquired in 1911 by former American jockey Tod Sloan, the former bistro was transformed into New York Bar to serve American expatriates who desired the occasional comfort of home. Twelve years later, Harry MacElhone, its barman, purchased the place and renamed it Harry’s New York Bar, and the rest is Parisian-American history.
White Horse Tavern — New York, New York : Since 1673, White Horse Tavern has served a diverse group of patrons, including the new Colony’s General Assembly, Criminal Court and City Council, and Jack Kerouac and Norman Mailer — not bad for an establishment once owned by a pirate. The meticulously preserved colonial house has been owned by just six people, and oozes of American history. In recent years, it has evolved into more of a place for dining, but remains conducive to mingling.
Mary McBride’s — Chushenden, Northern Ireland : Mary McBride’s proves that size doesn’t matter. At one time it was considered the smallest pub in the world, but its mere closet size only adds to its folksiness. The founder, Mary McBride, who wasn’t a drinker herself, added to the atmosphere by dispensing Chushenden gossip. The bar’s biggest draw to outsiders, however, has always been its breathtaking view of the Antrim coast.
The Long Bar at the Raffles Hotel — 1 Beach Road, Singapore : Occupying two levels of the 124-year-old colonial-style Raffles Hotel, The Long Bar serves "almost every alcoholic and non-alcoholic concoction imaginable," including the
Singapore Sling , which consists of gin, Benedictine, Cherry Heering and Sarawak pineapple juice. The tasty drink was created in 1915 by bartender Ngiam Tong Boon and has been altered by other Singaporean bartenders through time, even those who’ve worked at The Long Bar. Regardless of how it has been tweaked, it’s something you’ve got to try at least once.
Vesuvio — San Francisco, California : Perhaps this list has been a little America-centric, but we’d be remiss not to mention Vesuvio. A staple of San Francisco culture, the bar was frequented by the stars of the Beat Generation, including Dylan Thomas, Neal Cassady and Jack Kerouac, the latter of whom is permanently remembered with Jack Kerouac Alley — he knew his great American bars. Naturally, beautiful art is in residence and patrons can absorb it while sipping eco-friendly cocktails.
1. Choose a degree level:
- Select a degree -
2. Choose a category:
- Select a category -
3. Choose a subject:
- Select a subject -
Submit
Sponsored Schools
Online Degrees
College Reviews Students
Online College Reviews
Online College Search Tool
Online University Articles
Online University Links
Categories
Accelerated degrees
Accounting degrees
Advertising degrees
Animation degrees
Associates degrees
Bachelor degrees
Best buys
Business degrees
Certificate programs
College credit for life experience
College reviews
Communication degrees
Computer forensics degrees
Computer Information Systems degrees
Computer science degrees
Continuing education
Counseling degrees
CPA certification
Criminal investigation degrees
Criminal justice degrees
Criminology degrees
Culinary arts degrees
Database degrees
Diplomacy degrees
Distance learning basics
Distance learning degrees
Doctorate degrees
Education degrees
Engineering degrees
English degrees
Entrepreneur degrees
Environmental management degrees
Exams (SAT, GRE, etc.)
Fashion degrees
Features
Finance degrees
Financial aid for online degrees
Fire science degrees
Fitness and wellness degrees
Forensic science degrees
Free online courses
Game design degrees
Graduate degrees
Graphic design degrees
Health related degrees
Healthcare administration degrees
Homeland security degrees
Hospitality management degrees
Hotel and restaurant management degrees
Human Development degrees
Human resource degrees
Information assurance degrees
Information technology degrees
Interior design degrees
International Business degrees
Ivy League online programs
Justice Administration degrees
Law degrees
Learning Tools
Legal studies degrees
Liberal studies degree
Management degrees
Marketing degrees
Masters degrees
MBA degrees
Medical field degrees
Medical sonography degrees
Military history degrees
Music degree
Networking degrees
Nursing degrees
Nutrition degrees
Occupational safety degrees
Occupational therapy degrees
Online college degrees
Online Degree Programs
Online education
Open Courseware
Paralegal degrees
Physical therapy degrees
Programming degrees
Project management degrees
Psychology degrees
Public Administration degrees
Public health degrees
Radiology degrees
Religious degrees
Research
Retail management degrees
Science degrees
Sociology degrees
Software engineering degrees
Sports management degrees
Student loan consolidation
Technology degrees
Tips and Tools
Top universities by region
Tourism degrees
Uncategorized
Undergraduate degrees
Want to Advertise?
Web development degrees
Home
Online College Reviews
Helpful Online Degree Tips and Links
Online Degree Search
© 2015
Online College Blog and School Reviews.org
All rights reserved.
All data and information provided on this site is for informational purposes only. This site makes no representations as to accuracy, completeness, currentness, suitability, or validity of any information on this site and will not be liable for any errors, omissions, or delays in this information or any losses, injuries, or damages arising from its display or use. All information is provided on an as-is basis. We are not experts; we are students and former students. Please use your discretion before making any decisions based on the information provided at this blog, whether in posts or in comments. Site owners and authors will not compensate you in any way whatsoever if you ever happen to suffer a loss/inconvenience/damage because of/while making use of information provided in this blog.