Classic Summer Wine Cocktails | Vintner's Circle Winemaking Shops | winemaking made easy, in our stores or in your home.
Loading
Winemaking Made Easy
908.979.WINE
news
locations
shop online
about us
wine blog
contact us
own a franchise
Home
»
recipes
»
Classic Summer Wine Cocktails
wine making
wine lifestyle
gift giving
wine labels
Select a Category
wine tips
wine lifestyle
interesting facts
recipes
wine making
wine making kits
sulfites
wine making tips
news
wine varieties and styles
food pairing
general wine knowledge
Articles
wine regions
wine facts
Last 20 Posts
06-21-13 Create Fireworks with July 4th Food & Wine
06-10-13 Vintner’s Circle Wine Makers Take Gold, Silver and Bronze in International Competition
05-24-13 “Fun-to-Fill” Father’s Day Wine Gifts
04-19-13 Asparagus and Wine Pairing – Selective But Satisfying
01-18-13 Serving Ideas for Cupcakes and Wine Pairing
01-11-13 Red Wine Headaches – Are Sulfites Off the Hook?
01-08-13 Tailgating Parties - Pairing Wine with Fun Times
01-04-13 Greco di Tufo is a Complex and Delightful Match for Great Italian Dishes
08-04-12 Vintner’s Circle Franchising Holds 4th Annual Conference
07-15-12 Vintner’s Circle in Dickson City Hosts “Taste the Experience” Dinner
06-28-12 Fish Stories to Share and Wines to Pair | Fish and Wine Pairing
06-04-12 Vintner’s Circle Wine Makers Take Gold, Silver and Bronze in International Competition
05-17-12 Vintners Circle exhibiting at the International Franchise Expo
05-05-12 Wines that work with your Cinco de Mayo feast
05-04-12 California Wine History
11-15-11 Beaujolais Nouveau | Always Available on the Third Thursday of November
10-15-11 Pizza Wine Pairing
09-28-11 Wine Party Favors
09-13-11 Vintner's Circle Selected as Finalist for the New York Enterprise Report Small Business Awards
07-09-11 Sweet wine
Classic Summer Wine Cocktails
May 16th, 2010 by jolan in
recipes ,
wine lifestyle
As the weather warms up, it’s time to think of ways to keep cool. Weekends mean time at the pool, stretching out on the porch, and neighborhood barbecues (and picnics and festivals and beaches, oh my!). We’ve put together a list of classic wine cocktails, all the more enjoyable for their simplicity. With a small splash of liquor, or fruit puree, or some fresh berries, you can explore the tastes of France, Italy, and Spain – without leaving the cool shade of your own backyard.
Kir/Kir Royale
1 part black currant liqueur + 5 parts
white wine
+ 1 lemon twist = kir
The
kir
(pronounced
keer ) originates from Burgundy, France. Traditionally, the wine cocktail is made with
crème de cassis
(black currant liqueur) and Aligoté (a light, acidic white wine from Burgundy). Of course, you can add black currant liqueur to a variety of white wines to get the refreshing sweetness associated with the kir. I do recommend a lighter white, like a
Sauvignon Blanc
or
Pinot Grigio , but there certainly will be no Wine Police chasing you down if you decide on a full-bodied
Chardonnay .
A kir royale ( keer roy-ALL ) is simply crème de cassis and Champagne. In my heart of hearts, though, I can’t recommend that you spoil deliciously expensive, true Champagne by any additions; instead, try a touch of crème de cassis to
sparkling wine
from California or Spain.
Enhance your kir or kir royale with a lemon twist. Lemon twists are easy: use a vegetable peeler to get a thin (you want none of the bitter, white pith) strip of lemon peel, and simply twist it. Twisting the peel releases the skin’s aromatic oils; run the peel around the top of your glass, and either drop the twist in your drink, or let it hang languorously on the lip.
Bellini
1 part peach puree + 3 parts sparkling wine = Bellini
The
Bellini
comes by way of Harry’s Bar in Venice, Italy (which has been quite the source of culinary creations, as it also claims to be the first to have served
Carpaccio ). A Bellini is simply fresh peach puree, topped with
sparkling white wine . In Venice, the traditional formula involves white peaches and Prosecco, a sparkling white wine that comes from the region.
Enjoy your Bellini in a Champagne flute, topped with a slice of fresh peach, or a lemon or orange twist, for an extra special touch.
Sangria
1 bottle
red wine
+ 1 lemon, sliced + 1 orange, sliced + 1 apple, sliced + 1/4 cup cranberry juice + 2 tablespoons sugar + 1 shot brandy = red wine sangria
1 bottle
white wine
+ 1 lemon, sliced + 1 cup strawberries, sliced + 1 cup raspberries + 1 tablespoon honey + 1 cup club soda = white wine sangria
“ Sangría ” is a Spanish term, translated loosely into English as “bleeding” or (so says my dictionary) “phlebotomy”. Perhaps the term comes from the color of the wine, or how the cocktail’s fruit components ooze out sweet flavor, but whatever its murky origins, sangria means something delicious. This is one of the more versatile wine cocktails, so I give the above recipes as something as a starting point. The basic formula is wine and fruit and a touch of sweetener, and perhaps a touch of liquor and/or carbonation (like club soda or Sprite). If you have a favorite sangria recipe, I’d love to hear it.
On that note, who has a particularly good wine cocktail, classic or not, that would be perfect for summer? Have you had a great wine cocktail somewhere, but aren’t sure how to make it? If you describe where and when you had what you had, we could figure it out together!
Tags:
Bellini ,
kir ,
kir royale ,
sangria ,
wine cocktails
Leave a Reply
Click here to cancel reply.
Name (required)
Mail (will not be published) (required)
Website
privacy policy
terms and conditions
franchise login
uncorked login