July | 2009 | body & mind balance
body & mind balance
step by step
Skip to content
Home Anna Dannfelt PROFESSIONAL AROMATHERAPY “CREATE YOURSELF” COACHING WHAT PEOPLE SAY CONTACT
Monthly Archives:
July 2009
←
Older posts
ESSENTIAL OILS AS MOOD-ENHANCERS
Posted on
July 31, 2009
|
Leave a comment
One of the most useful aspects of essential oils is the
mood-enhancing properties . Every oil will create some kind of feeling in you.  To realize why this happens you need to know a bit about how the essential oils work through our
olfactory system:
(Following is taken from Wikipedia – text & picture;
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Olfactory_system )
<<In mammals, the main olfactory system detects odorants that are inhaled through the
nose , where they contact the main
olfactory epithelium , which contains various
olfactory receptors . These can distinguish a new odor from the background environmental odors and determine the concentration of the odor.
These olfactory receptors are connected to bipolar
olfactory receptor neurons
in the olfactory epithelium, which transduce receptoractivation into electrical signals in
neurons . The signals travel along the
olfactory nerve , which belongs to the
peripheral nervous system . This nerve terminates in the
olfactory bulb , which belongs to the
central nervous system .>>
1:
Olfactory bulb
2:
Mitral cells
3: Bone 4: Nasal
Epithelium
5:
Glomerulus
6:
Olfactory receptor cells
You might say that the olfactory receptors in the nose is the only place where the brain sticks out from the skull. In the olfactory bulb (1) there is a series of
key-holes
which accommodate different molecules. It’s a little like the round peg in the round hole. If the odor molecule doesn’t fit in the key-hole the odor will stay only in the nose, being analyzed by the brain and that’s it, most odors fall into this category. If, however, the odor molecule fits into one of the key-holes it will enter the
limbic system
of the brain, also called the
reptile brain.
)Following text & picture is taken from Wikipedia:
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Limbic_system)
Amygdala : [ 3 ] [ 4 ] [ 5 ]
Involved in signaling the cortex of motivationally significant stimuli such as those related to reward and fear in addition to social functions such as mating.
Hippocampus : [ 3 ] [ 4 ] [ 5 ]
Required for the formation of
long-term memories
and implicated in maintenance of cognitive maps for navigation.
Parahippocampal gyrus : [ 4 ]
Plays a role in the formation of spatial memory
Cingulate gyrus : [ 3 ] [ 4 ] [ 5 ]
Autonomic functions regulating
heart rate ,
blood pressure
and cognitive and
attentional
processing
Fornix : [ 5 ] [ 3 ]
carries signals from the
hippocampus
to the
mammillary bodies
and
septal nuclei .
Hypothalamus : [ 3 ] [ 5 ]
Regulates the autonomic nervous system via
hormone
production and release. Affects and regulates
blood pressure ,
heart rate ,
hunger ,
thirst ,
sexual arousal , and the
sleep/wake cycle
Thalamus : [ 3 ] [ 5 ]
The “relay station” to the cerebral cortex
In addition, these structures are sometimes also considered to be part of the limbic system:
Mammillary body : [ 3 ]
Important for the formation of memory
Pituitary gland : [ 3 ]
secretes
hormones
regulating
homeostasis
Dentate gyrus : [ 4 ]
thought to contribute to new
memories
and to regulate happiness.
Entorhinal cortex : Important memory and associative components.
Piriform cortex : [ 5 ]
The function of which relates to the
olfactory system .
Fornicate gyrus : Region encompassing the cingulate, hippocampus, and parahippocampal gyrus
Olfactory bulb : Olfactory sensory input
Nucleus accumbens : Involved in reward,
pleasure , and
addiction
Orbitofrontal cortex : Required for
decision making
As you can see the limbic system is situated in the middle of the brain – as if it was the heart of the brain.
The molecular structure of essential oils fit in this key-hole system, so the essential oils do enter the limbic system. The essential oils also transgress the
blood-brain-barrier
and therefore enters the limbic system through the blood as well. Since many of the molecules in essential oils mimic our own hormones, they can, among other things, help to regulate our hormone-system. Some essential oils are very valuable for mental clarity, help with mood-swings, facilitating sleep and much much more.
In my next post I will tell you a little about the different oils and how you can use them as mood-enhancers.  I will also give you dosages and how-to-use tips. Stay tuned!
Share this: Like this: Like
Loading...
Leave a comment
Posted in
Aromatherapy
Tagged
Aromatherapy ,
blood-brain-barrier ,
brain ,
essential oils ,
hormones ,
key-hole ,
limbic system ,
molecules ,
mood-enhancers ,
odors ,
olfactory system
ESSENTIAL OIL QUALITY – Ravensara/Ravintsara
Posted on
July 21, 2009
|
3 comments
I wrote in an earlier post about an essential oil I picked up:
Ravintsara
( cinnamomum camphora ). I couldn’t really get this oil out of my head so I have been doing some research. As usual there is plenty of misunderstandings between different oils, popular names, botanical names and the chemical properties. What continues to confuse me are the different Latin names but this is what I have found:
Ravensara,
( Ravensara aromatica / Ravensara anisata
–
Lauraceae family)
Is a a leafy evergreen tree 18 to 20 meters high with a reddish-grey bark indigenous to the moist forests of Madagascar, in Malagasy called Havozo. The essential oil is steam-distilled from the
stem-bark
( Ravensara anisata ) or the
leaves
& branches
( Ravensara aromatica )
The main chemical constituents of
R. aromatica
are: 1,8 cinèole (up to 49%). The main chemical constituents in
R. anisata
are: anethole (approx. 85%) and methyl chavicol. This makes these two oils completely different.
Ravintsara
(Cinnamomum camphora – Lauraceae family)
is steam-distilled from the leaves. It is also high in 1,8 cinèole.
The problem is that I cannot find any information on the Ravintsara ( c. camphora) . All info I can find reverts back to
Ravensara aromatica/anisata . So the question is; Is it really the same plant? Or is it a mixup of the names? One source states: “ Cinnamomum camphora
is also named
Ravintsara
in Madagascar; hence
Ravensara camphora
is seen on price lists mistakenly as
ravensara
but no true species exist; various qualities abound”.
So you see the confusion around essential oils; this is why it is so important to make sure that the oil you buy is good quality and has a Latin (botanical) name on the label. In the case with the
Ravensara , I would go for the botanical name
Ravensara aromatica.
to be continued…when I have more information.
Share this: Like this: Like
Loading...
3 Comments
Posted in
Aromatherapy
Tagged
Aromatherapy ,
botanical ,
chemistry ,
confusion ,
essential oil ,
ravensara
AROMATHERAPY AND HORSES
Posted on
July 13, 2009
|
Leave a comment
This is Jade. She is 34 years old and she did her last mounted-game competition when she was 30.
I told you in my last post that I work with horses. Apart from basic groundwork,
natural horsemanship style,
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Natural_horsemanship
I also work with essential oils. Sometimes in combination with training to help keep the horse focused and/or calm if there is nervousness. Most often I use essential oils with horses who suffer from some kind of trauma. Horses have an average life-span of about 15 years, a pony can get as old as 40. They are incredibly sensitive with an amazing memory – they remember everything. Very few horses stay with one owner for the full duration of their lives, some change owners very very often and the new owners rarely know anything about the past of the horse they just bought. If there is trauma it will make itself known in different ways and this is where I am called in.
This next picture is of a pony that belongs to a friend of mine. She was caught, with her foal,  in a very bad flood a few years ago and the foal drowned. She is a wonderful pony but she tunes out and goes into flight mode when pushed. I have done some ground-work with her and she always ends up going into a slight panic; breathing hard, sweating, rushing and becoming non-communicable. This weekend I brought my oils and she answered very well. We did some groundwork and she could stay calm, which is a good start, but there is still more work to be done. The oils she chose will be used for some time until progress is noticeable, then maybe she will need another oil/oils. Once her trauma is healed she will be an amazing pony.
I have, through the years, also worked with a variety of different animals; dogs, cats, sheep, cows, lamas, snakes, birds, lizards, turtles, frogs etc with fantastic results. With animals there is no doubt, they instinctively know what they need to heal, and they seem to have a need to be whole. For this kind of work only top quality essential oils will suffice and then in very small quantities.
In England, Caroline Ingraham  works professionally with aromatherapy and animals. When I met her some years ago she was about to work with saving orangutans with severe trauma. She has done amazing work in this area and is the pioneer of animal aromatherapy. If this is interesting to you, you need to check out her home-page.
http://www.ingraham.co.uk/
Share this: Like this: Like
Loading...
Leave a comment
Posted in
Animals ,
Aromatherapy
Tagged
Animals ,
Aromatherapy ,
essential oils ,
healing ,
horses ,
natural horsemanship ,
trauma
BEING PRESENT
Posted on
July 9, 2009
|
Leave a comment
Being present or
being in the now,
is something I have been working on for very long, and it is really not that easy. We think we are present most of the time, but we actually hardly ever are. As I already mentioned in another posting; we judge everything based on something we already know, keeping us in the past or in the future. The present is a constant moment – it has no time. Everything is fresh and new – a possibility of learning or enjoying or maybe even suffering – yes, suffering is also part of being. All emotions are a learning experience, and the
now
is constantly loaded with possibilities. Changes are now, learning is now, experiencing is now, tasting, touching, seeing, smelling is now. When we are in the past we feel regret and when we are in the future we feel fear.                                                                                                                                                                                 We are constantly searching for our future, looking here, looking there – and the future always seem to elude us since it never comes; Each future moment becomes the present, at which point we completely miss it since we are still searching for the future. In a way we are living like slaves to our emotions; constantly struggling to go forward without ever stopping to reap the rewards.
When my children were small they had their favorite movie which they would watch over and over again, days – even weeks – on end. Each time they watched this movie it was like they saw it for the first time. This is being in the present. I used to watch them, mesmerized by their intense joy over something – to me – “worn down”. I was always in the future; next meal, next day, next chore. I was so busy that I very seldom stopped only to exist. My children showed me how to do this. They were the reason I learned to stop, because the joy of watching them exist made me still. My children were always my greatest teachers.
The source of our creativity is stillness.
I am very good at handling horses, somehow I
know
inside what they are feeling, what they are about to do. I have never learned about horses and I am not a brilliant rider, but I do know how they tick. Why? When I was a child I had an enormous love for horses,  and on the farm where we lived summers and holidays there were horses in a field. I used to spend my days there, watching them. I would bring a book and sandwiches and just watch.  With time I started to move with the horses, being part of their flock and this is how I learned horses. I learned their “language” and I learned that every movement means something. I learned that horses exist only in the present and this is the key to good horsemanship – the present. Horses were always my teachers.
Everything in the Universe comes from within; every idea, creation, thought, knowledge. Each time I stay in the present I learn something valuable – priceless. The things I do, know and understand best were learned in these moments. I watch my surroundings while being in the present – this is how I learn. But I have to work on it all the time since I slide so easily into the future.
Share this: Like this: Like
Loading...
Leave a comment
Posted in
Lifestyle ,
Personal development
Tagged
children ,
creation ,
future ,
horses ,
knowledge ,
learning ,
past ,
Personal development ,
present ,
stillness ,
universe
FOODS continued…
Posted on
July 7, 2009
|
1 comment
I was astonished to see the movie link in my last post is unavailable due to “terms of use violation”. Hmm, interesting. So I will post you another little film here instead, can’t enough stress the importance of nutrition.
A connection is made between additives and ADD in children. ADD has increased enormously over the last years…makes me wonder…
Share this: Like this: Like
Loading...
1 Comment
Posted in
Nutrition
Tagged
ADD ,
additives ,
Nutrition
FOOD
Posted on
July 7, 2009
|
1 comment
We need to take a look at how and what we are eating.  So many people are overweight and obese, have problems with; concentration, sleep, hormones, digestion, emotions…the list goes on forever. I have been watching this development for a long time and it took me some time to realize that much of it is connected to foods and eating-habits. “We are what we eat” doesn’t mean that we become pigs for eating pork, it is more about health and balance.
Our bodies have certain needs, and they are quite simple, in the old days all nutrients came naturally through our foods. Today much of our foods are either polluted or depleted of nutrients. Our bodies find ways to handle the toxins that come into our systems – to a certain point. When the amount of toxins becomes to large, the body slowly starts breaking down. And with body is included the brain = emotions, memory, hormones, concentration, learning…the list is vast. So much of the food people eat today is full of chemicals that are bad or outright dangerous. Much foods have no nutritious value at all. Many people don’t even know how to cook a simple meal.
Check out this video on additives in foodstuffs and tell me if you are prepared to feed this to yourself and your children.
Information on additives, toxins and depletion is becoming widely available as disease from unhealthy eating is growing rampant. Research has been and is being conducted to ascertain what nutrients we need to function  and what additives make us ill:
Essential fatty acids are vital for healthy brain-function and has been found to help combatting dyslexia, how interesting then, that the number of dyslectic children is rising in today’s society. Essential fatty acids are found in fish-oil and
cold-pressed, unrefined
vegetable oils. The vegetable oils you find in your local store, with the exception of good quality olive oil, are so refined as to be unfit for eating.
Vitamins and trace-elements (calcium, iron, magnesium etc) are found in most
unrefined
food-stuffs; vegetables, fruits, meat and dairy-products. Today most people suffer disease from vitamin and trace-element depletion. The levels of these vital nutrients are lower also in natural food-stuffs since the soil has been depleted.
Natural sugars are being replaced with “fake” sugars such as aspartam, sorbitol and others. Some are believed to induce cancer. Extensive studies are being done in this area.
Meat-producing animals are heavily medicated with antibiotics – not because they are ill, rather to “protect” them from illness. They are also given hormones for bigger meat-yield. Antibiotics and hormones are stored primarily in fatty tissue and also in muscle tissue (meat). When we eat the meat, we are also ingesting these antibiotics and hormones.
Fizzy soft drinks; the carbonic acid, which gives the fizziness, lowers the pH of the body. To balance that, calcium is excreted from the sceletal system, depleting the bones of calcium = osteoporosis. The number of children with osteoporosis has risen drastically.
Osteoporosis is normally an old peoples disease and comes from low calcium-levels together with a sedentary life-style.
Children need calcium and movement to grow healthy. Now they are drinking sodas (which are cheaper than milk) and sitting still.
The list goes on forever.
A whole new food-movement is gaining momentum in today’s society, especially in the USA; check out this article about one amazing mans work to change the wave of food-induced deterioration:
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/07/05/magazine/05allen-t.html
In the article is a link for the website, if you don’t feel like reading the article you can go straight to:
www.growingpower.org
Will Allen
Picture by Nigel Parry for The New York Times
Share this: Like this: Like
Loading...
1 Comment
Posted in
Nutrition
Tagged
additives ,
depletion ,
fatty acids ,
foods ,
Nutrition ,
vegetable oils ,
vitality ,
vitamins
THANK YOU
Posted on
July 3, 2009
|
2 comments
Thank you people for such nice feed-back on my post yesterday,  I was – again – reminded of the rewards that come when I step past my comfort zone.
I received quite a few comments, ideas and questions that led me to believe that there is a great need for communication out there. So last night while falling asleep I had the idea to post questions and answers on this blog, this way you will get information on stuff that interests you; be it aromatherapy, herbs, natural skin-care, personal development, nutrition, stress-management or whatever…this way everybody helps each-other, which is how it should be.
By the way, please click on the ad to the right. It is a charity widget – every click helps children.
Share this: Like this: Like
Loading...
2 Comments
Posted in
Uncategorized
Tagged
comfort zone ,
content ,
information ,
thank you ,
Uncategorized
←
Older posts
Search for:
Email Subscription
Enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Join 781 other followers
Aromatherapy of Luxembourg
Aromatherapy of Luxembourg
July 2009
M
T
W
T
F
S
S
« Jun
Aug »
1 2 3 4 5
6 7 8 9 10 11 12
13 14 15 16 17 18 19
20 21 22 23 24 25 26
27 28 29 30 31
Archives
Archives
Select Month
April 2015  (1)
February 2015  (1)
January 2015  (1)
February 2014  (2)
January 2014  (2)
December 2013  (1)
October 2013  (2)
September 2013  (3)
August 2013  (2)
July 2013  (3)
June 2013  (3)
May 2013  (5)
April 2013  (4)
March 2013  (5)
February 2013  (1)
January 2013  (2)
December 2012  (5)
November 2012  (3)
October 2012  (4)
September 2012  (6)
August 2012  (8)
July 2012  (2)
June 2012  (5)
May 2012  (5)
April 2012  (5)
March 2012  (4)
February 2012  (6)
January 2012  (8)
December 2011  (7)
November 2011  (5)
October 2011  (6)
September 2011  (2)
July 2011  (4)
June 2011  (4)
May 2011  (5)
April 2011  (4)
March 2011  (5)
February 2011  (3)
January 2011  (8)
December 2010  (5)
November 2010  (4)
October 2010  (5)
September 2010  (7)
August 2010  (8)
July 2010  (4)
June 2010  (8)
May 2010  (10)
April 2010  (6)
March 2010  (6)
February 2010  (8)
January 2010  (8)
December 2009  (6)
November 2009  (6)
October 2009  (12)
September 2009  (11)
August 2009  (10)
July 2009  (8)
June 2009  (14)
Categories Categories
Select Category
Animals  (11)
Aromatherapy  (90)
Babies & Children  (31)
DIY  (3)
Energetics  (22)
Essential oil profiles  (16)
Flowers & Herbs  (18)
health  (5)
Inspiration  (24)
just another story  (1)
Life  (73)
Lifestyle  (93)
Massage  (10)
medicine  (18)
Musings  (28)
Nutrition  (19)
perfume  (18)
Personal development  (81)
Product information  (47)
Profiles  (14)
Scents  (29)
Skincare  (29)
Stress  (40)
Sustainability  (14)
Uncategorized  (53)
Wellness  (51)
anxiety
Aromatherapy
babies
Babies & Children
balance
bath
beauty
belief
change
chemicals
children
choices
communication
creation
creativity
distillation
dreams
emotion
environment
essential oil
essential oils
eucalyptus
fear
flowers
frankincense
freedom
geranium
healing
health
herbs
history
hormones
horses
information
jasmine
knowledge
lavender
learning
Lifestyle
love
Massage
medicine
motivation
muscle
myrrh
natural
Nutrition
orange
organic
pain
perfume
Personal development
Product information
relaxation
respect
rose
rosemary
rosewood
sandalwood
scent
Scents
science
skin
skin-care
sleep
Stress
tea tree
training
trauma
truth
Uncategorized
vegetable oil
water
Wellness
ylang-ylang Twitter
I don't have a television
wp.me/pxGUm-Py
6 months ago
Supercrooks and Superheroes
wp.me/pxGUm-Pt
9 months ago
THE MAGIC OF SMILING
wp.me/pxGUm-Po
9 months ago
#Facebook
is going to sell your data to big advertisers. Things are about to get creepy.
bit.ly/1uDAH36
via @ SumOfUs
1 year ago
Europe's about to get its first shipment of toxic
#tarsands . Sign here to keep dirty oil out of
#EU
- via @ Sum_Of_Us
bit.ly/1hqNLmH
1 year ago
Blogroll
AnnasTao
Business profile
Good things happen
WordPress.com
WordPress.org
Blogs I like
Body movement
Ca Fleur Bon
Dax Moy – training & philosophy
Fashion Era
Gillian Mc Keath
globaltableadventure.com
Grass roots and grains
Haute Couture
Home-made beauty recipes
LisaLise natural skin care
Megan Elizabeth
Messy Nessy Chic
Nice cooking and baking
Robert Tisserand
Roxana Illuminated Perfume
The art of doing stuff
Information & Resources
Cosmetics info
Green standards
Organic consumers
Safe cosmetics
Skin deep
Toxnet
Create a free website or blog at WordPress.com .
The Coraline Theme .
body & mind balance
Create a free website or blog at WordPress.com .
The Coraline Theme .
Follow
Follow “body & mind balance”
Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.
Join 781 other followers
Build a website with WordPress.com
%d
bloggers like this:
Add your thoughts here... (optional)
Post to
Cancel