Kaustikos MD: February 2011
Kaustikos MD
Watch the transformation of a pharmacologist into a physician. Sarcastic ramblings, anecdotes and reflections.
Friday, February 25, 2011
Doing it wrong - FSA
I try with great patience and an absolute removal of bias to accept changes and reforms. Despite my rational skepticism of certain things, I've tried to remain optimistic that some things are brilliant and an awesome step forward towards promoting a positive impact on our society. I was unfortunately reminded of just how wrong I can be sometimes by my dilemma a couple nights ago.
Colds - yes, those. The one abomination that can change you from a tolerable human being to a lethargic mess unless you try to allow your immune system a couple seconds to do their job. Well, for reasons unknown, I was meet with this infectious agent a couple nights ago. Like a good soldier, I had decided to purchase some OTC medications to help alleviate the symptoms while my boisterous immune system eradicated the remnants. I was reminded of my good natured preparedness when I noticed I had enrolled in a FSA with a certain amount already allocated to that card; enough to purchase what I needed for the night - acetominophen/diphenhydramine/dextromethorphan. I was excited - a card that you allocated funds pre-tax towards purchases of items like OTC medications! You "saved" money through this and it forced you to allocate funds towards better expenses! Why, this is EXACTLY what I was talking about earlier!
/Drives to Walgreen's
/Goes to OTC Med Section
/Picks up medication
/Goes to pharmacy counter
(You can make any purchases there, by the way, so don't think you have to wait in line up front!)
*Scans item*
Pharmacist "It'll be $x.xx"
*Swipes card* - FAILURE
Pharmacist "Oh, is that an FSA card? You don't know about the new change with these things, do you?"
And my mind immediately stumbles backward. I
did
remember
the change ...when I read about the reform that was going to be implemented. Oh, yes, silly me! I read and laughed at this change
Starting Jan. 1, 2011, you won't be able to spend FSA dollars on over-the-counter medical supplies that aren't specifically prescribed by a doctor But that was over a year ago when I read this and it remained in the deep corners of my mind - an area I forgot to access when I decided to enroll in the FSA or when I was about to make this purchase. In essence, if you think you're playing smart by getting this card - HA. I don't want to hear the reasons for this change, however logical they may be, because it reeks of emotionally driven panic. No, my mind will remain forever entrenched in the "Fuck you, FSA" bias until I hear how making you get a prescription for OTC meds is logical/sound/intelligent/etc. If you're thinking hard about this, it's because you're an intelligent person who realizes it makes no sense. You're trying to grasp at any logical thought process for why forcing you to pay more money for medications that don't require a prescription is
LOGICAL.
Let's be frank - the FSA was a great idea that may have had flaws. Despite those flaws, you're simply not approaching the situation correctly by making people get a valid prescription for drugs that don't require a prescription.
Ultimately, I was forced to use my other funds to purchase these drugs and basically put this FSA card in storage. The other funds being my post-tax income, I suppose, until I can figure out all the OTC medications I want to use and just hand that list over at my next doctors appointment.
Why yes, Doctor, I do have a headache, cough, soar throat, sinus infection, sneezing, stuffy nose, dry eyes, congestion and trouble sleeping. No, I don't want to waste your time with tests to prove your diagnosis! Just write a script for every OTC medication you can think of and I'll be on my way. Yes, I realize everyone else has tried this approach because of the FSA bullshit... oh, the door's that way? *sigh*
No images, no videos, no sounds. This is bullshit
/rant
at
7:26 AM
No comments:
Links to this post
Monday, February 21, 2011
THE FIX - PART II
Okay,
I have summarized a rather brief overview of how the solution can be applied, but I guess you would prefer a better explanation. For reasons beyond my control, my hands are pounding the keyboard to once again explain how I want Healthcare to work. Have no fear; because I promise I won't be ambiguous in trying to deliver my solution to a crisis that
politicians
cannot fix on their own.
Let's begin by going through my archives to find a good place to start quoting -
Then what's my point? Well, health care is trying to introduce plans that require less spending on our part for medications meant to treat diseases which could be easily avoidable in the first place with better lifestyle choices and planning. RUN-ON GO! See that? I'm refusing to go back and fix that grammatically incorrect sentence. Yes, dear readers, the problem I have is how we're implementing health care. Ask me if I believe health care is a right or privilege and I'd lean towards the latter. Am I a jerk? Possibly. Am I wrong? I disagree; but I'm not saying that we should completely cut off and restrict health care completely. I'm saying
stop giving out pills like it's candy ! That paragraph basically shows what the problem is; you can't - CAN'T - fix all these healthcare problems with pills. Despite the promises that some
messiahs
try to deliver, majority of healthcare issues are worsened with just prescribing meds  without another stipulation attached .  In case you haven't figured it out by now; your body eventually becomes desensitized to that medication and it'll become as effective as a placebo.
YES, IT'S TRUE . I hate linking wikipedia and every PI/PhD/MD I've worked with would probably snipe me with cyanide if they found out I referenced it this frequently, but this isn't a damn publication. By now, a couple of people are tracing my IP to figure out where I live to offer their personal counter-rebuttal about how healthcare isn't about promoting pill-popping; believing that healthcare is about taking care of you. Yes, in theory, the idea is to promote care for the populace. This would be an amazing plan if people actually
didn't take advantage of healthcare .  Barring fraud statistics, we're also neglecting the "sedentary" lifestyle some people choose to follow while being "taken care of" (The quotations are strictly implemented because there's no telling what makes someone lazy or where the line is drawn for adequate care). Not everyone is as awesome as you, unfortunately, and people are going to become lazy when they're offered a simple solution with no work required.  Even when the answer is so simple -
And the question is once again being asked - WHAT DO WE DO?
Lure them/entice them/make them want to work for that reward.
Gym memberships - $0 if you show improvement and even a financial reward in the end!
Healthy Foods - Tax deductible/cheaper than unhealthy foods
facebook for updates.
Gyms/Grocery Stores - Tax deductions/rewards for promoting healthier lifestyle. Gym owners; the more people you get to successfully utilize your gym and get benefits, the better the reward from Big Brother. Grocery Stores - Promote/sell healthier products for discounted prices and you, too, shall receive help from Big Brother.
This is where I became a little vague, I suppose, and didn't necessarily promote my entire intellectual prowess. I don't work in politics - the only job where my skills and expertise would be most beneficial are found in an
organization I am hesitant to admit my disappointment in . That and my qualifications wouldn't obtain the proper job where I could implement my own strategies with no objection. In any regard, I can't thoroughly give you a perfect system with a 30 page PowerPoint that explains my point properly. What I can do, however, is guide you through
a system
the government is trying to implement which could solve the problem if they adjusted the model. If you can't read that one page and deduce what it's trying to accomplish, I'll offer a simple conclusion an Attending I know
summarized
perfectly -
What are Accountable Care Organizations?
The health care reform legislation enacted in March 2010 authorizes the Medicare program to contract with accountable care organizations (ACOs). These are networks of physicians and other providers that could work together to improve the quality of health care services and reduce costs for a defined patient population.
Translation: No one really knows what ACOs are, but somehow they are supposed to save money. How? The next section explains...
Shared Savings. Spending for the population of patients in a particular ACO could be compared to targets based on past experience for the same patients, or to spending for similar patients in the community who were not assigned to the ACO.
If the ACO was found to have saved money, it would receive some share of the savings.
Just how the savings would be divided among the participating providers is a major question that each ACO will need to resolve on its own.
# Evolution Toward Stronger Incentives. In the beginning, there would be no downside risk:
The ACO would not share in the losses if treatment of its patients cost more than expected, though this could change over time.
In other words: BUNDLING and CAPITATION.
Medicare and major private insurers capitate a payment for each patient or each episode of care. If patient is very sick and needs a lot of care, the doctors will likely lose money.
Capitation model is hardly new. It mostly failed because it gave doctors incentive to give as little care as possible, and to cherrypick healthier patients.
Now, however, there is a clout of the federal government behind it. Doctors will be virtually forced to become part of these ACOs--there are numerous paragraphs about this in the healthcare bill. There won't be any cherry picking or fussing on the part of providers.
So, what's the problem, you ask?
You're targeting the wrong people!
The system is trying to have physicians promote better healthcare to their customers (patients). This model is so close to perfection! Why not go even further and target the customers themselves!
Patients are not idiots and if you introduce a system of accountable care where the patients are responsible for their own actions, you could find an enormous improvement in the system and reduced cost by the government. Tell the patient that if they improve in their condition (taking less pills/fewer visits to the hospital), the government gives you a cut of the savings.  The patient decides to lead that sedentary lifestyle and continue popping pills; then they are going to see a higher cost.  This system is already being used, indirectly, and patients often don't see how their hard work is being rewarded.
Far from the obvious , the solution is to try to not only be more obvious about their rewards, but also expanding this system to include the lifestyle choices that need to be changed.
How do you reward patients for better lifestyle choices? Well, the
FSA
and
HSA
was an amazing start towards promoting that lifestyle choice, but this needs to be expanded upon and include more than medical expenditures - food expenses and gym memberships should also be included! By now, most people are familiar with the HSA card that they use to purchase their OTC medications/etc - and they definitely take advantage of that whenever they can.  Why is it so damn difficult to implement that towards groceries? Why not increase the amount put towards that card and allow people to purchase healthier foods. Yes, there's a gray line between healthy and unhealthy, but we can still market the obvious bad
fr om good
While we're still trying to use that carrot on a stick approach, why not further that reward towards working out, too? This one would be a little bit trickier because we have to find a way to satiate the government, patient and gyms at the same time. The most obvious would be to have the following -
Gym memberships are automatically taken out of your income pre-tax every year - but you don't foot the entire bill.  The government will promote the majority of the spending per year with a minor cut from your end; we'll say 75/25 to start. You improve; you get less taken out and - fuck it - a higher refund on your taxes. You don't improve; we bump up your contributions towards spending (25 to 30, per example)
Health screens (already being used by employers) will be implemented at the start of the year to assess how your body is. This will be used to gauge your start point and how you've improved every year.
Employers initially only have one contribution to make - mandatory 1 to 1.5 hours allotted to working out at a gym. They might not like it at first, but introducing incentives from the government to promote this healthier lifestyle choices in the workplace will help. The healthier a patient becomes, the better the reward/deductions/refunds/etc received by the employer from the government at the end of the year.  If you make it sound like that business is going to make money/save money, they'll be on board.
Gyms - We can't do it without your help; step it up and promote being healthy. If the government is going to get involved in this process, then it should be mandatory that you put some effort into it. Realizing it's a private practice means we're leaning towards communism at this point - but we'll offer incentives that promote retaining members for reduced spending in taxes. WIN!
Patients (You) - Think about it! We're letting you work out for reduced cost while being paid at work! Just get on a treadmill with your friends and spend an hour a day sweating out your frustrations! This is a win-win because the employer knows you're being productive and you're improving your health! You're going to get a reward when "tax time" comes around the corner and eventually spend less money in taxes!
I honestly don't feel like we'll ever have healthcare reform without government intervention (or less intervention) at this point. People feel comfort in knowing that "Big Brother" is there to help you with health care, and almost seize compulsively when businesses are allowed to offer their own managerial methodology. If it makes you feel better; replace any sort of involvement by government with private businesses and you ultimately come up with the same damn thing. Either way, the point I'm making is that we cannot - CANNOT - allow a system dedicated to health to continue on the same route. Decreased tolerance from medications will definitely drive up costs; that I can guarantee.  I can't seem to figure out why it's so bad to assume that patients are capable of taking some responsibility for their actions. If we offer monetary rewards for healthier lifestyle choices, I can guarantee we'll see better outcomes than what we're doing now. But for now, this sad system seems like rainbows and butterflies to most when the truth is -
at
3:01 PM
No comments:
Links to this post
Monday, February 14, 2011
THE FIX
I strive never to present problems without my own solutions. So, whenever I'm drawn into the often delightful debate about health care, I have found that my answers aren't the ones
people like to hear . The rat-maze brain of mine that leads to my train of thought is severely ingrained - I'd have to be proven wrong about my idea before I would realize that other solutions are better. There lies the problem - my idea is so far removed from the present solution that the mere possibility of it happening is worse than
my god
making an appearance.
"Wait, you're saying divine intervention is more possible?"
Naturally, I'd have to present the solution before you can even imagine that possibility. But, yes, it is. Before I begin, I'll share a video I recently saw that properly helps ease into my
solution.
First, let this be an example of why commercials outside of the United States will never air here. We prefer cute and cuddly over dark humor. Not to say the commercial really merits being shown here, since
who gives a damn about cheese ?
Let us now move to my point - this country is lazy
Let me be clear that I'm not a
staunch, egotistical, pretentious douche
who thinks he's better than everyone because he goes to a gym regularly. No, I sympathize because I find the fault falls not on everyone but in how they're being trained into leading this lifestyle. Leading the 9-5 lifestyle where you're trained to sit at your desk for hours, relying on transportation that requires minimal movement, and hard work is not something you'd be inclined to follow, would it?  Most jobs today require
maybe
5 hours of actual work per day, with the
exception of a few
that don't meet that criteria. Yet the job still demands the 8 hours of commitment. Then you have the commutes to various places, time for eating/chores/things to do and it's easy to see how time to lead a healthier lifestyle is restrictive. Sure, we can condemn those who watch T.V. at night and force them to utilize that time for healthier alternatives. Yes, but that's basically forcing someone to become completely robotic and never giving that person any reward for hard work.
You do realize that even if we're machines, that things would ultimately give in, right? Tell you what, go take your car out for a drive and
never stop . Let me know how long your car lasts.  Better yet, try connecting the dots as to why your computer becomes slower and slower everyday when you don't turn it off/restart the computer.
Then what's my point? Well, health care is trying to introduce plans that require less spending on our part for medications meant to treat diseases which could be easily avoidable in the first place with better lifestyle choices and planning. RUN-ON GO! See that? I'm refusing to go back and fix that grammatically incorrect sentence. Yes, dear readers, the problem I have is how we're implementing health care. Ask me if I believe health care is a right or privilege and I'd lean towards the latter. Am I a jerk? Possibly. Am I wrong? I disagree; but I'm not saying that we should completely cut off and restrict health care completely. I'm saying
stop giving out pills like it's candy !
Patient walks into the clinic complaining of chest pain and blah blah blah blah blah blah - doctor prescribes lisinopril (your blood pressure's too high) and simvastatin (your cholesterol sucks).
"That's it?" The Patient responds, almost optimistically
"Why, no! You're going to have to change your diet and exercise regimen if you want to get better." Responds the doctor; cautioning that the pills are only meant to provide a short-term solution to the patients problem. The patient walks away with the prescription and gives the insurance card to the receptionist - $0 bill. The patient gets in their car and goes through the pharmacy drive-through (it's easier, duh) and gets their prescription filled - $0. The patient arrives home and puts the pills on the table and thinks.
"A new lifestyle? I have to change my diet and begin exercising..."
Why yes, you're going to have to eat healthier foods (more $$$$) and exercise (more $$$$) while taking these pills ($0). But why do that? The pills take care of your problems... and with this awesome government insurance plan,
you don't spend a thing ! Statistically (don't ask me to pull this one up), the person's going to have a hard time following the healthier lifestyle. They'll instead focus on taking the pills and continuing on with their lifestyle. BAD PATIENT! BAD!
Actually, readers, it's not really that persons fault. Have you tried being healthy? Relative to the cost/ease of leading a "sedentary" lifestyle,  being healthier sucks . The cost and time put into eating healthy is substantially worse than unhealthy foods. But even if you were to stick with your regular diet, the time and money you have to invest into exercising is definitely a deviation from your normal life. Gym memberships are beyond outrageous (not to mention the inconvenience of location), buying the proper equipment is also expensive, and we're not early-birds that love getting up at 5am to exercise before work. Even if we were to try and force that patient to do it, we're fighting an uphill battle and run the risk of losing...badly. You're pushing a 5000lb car uphill - let me know when you want to call it quits because the top of the hill isn't there. ***
"So do nothing, Kaustikos?"
Gym memberships - $0 if you show improvement and even a financial reward in the end!
Healthy Foods - Tax deductible/cheaper than unhealthy foods
facebook for updates.
Gyms/Grocery Stores - Tax deductions/rewards for promoting healthier lifestyle. Gym owners; the more people you get to successfully utilize your gym and get benefits, the better the reward from Big Brother. Grocery Stores - Promote/sell healthier products for discounted prices and you, too, shall receive help from Big Brother.
The Conservative Agenda is going to murder me for that one, but let's face the facts here, gentlemen - Big Brother is already throwing money away (incorrectly) and I'd take the lesser of the two evils. Not to mention it still promotes capitalism and would potentially lead to reduced spending from the government in health care.
So what do I have? A solution? Maybe, maybe not. Maybe the plan would collapse within seconds of its implementation. Maybe I'm too optimistic in thinking that this nation still has good people who are willing to believe. Should I instead have to resort to the fact that this nation can't be helped into promoting a healthier lifestyle without some effort? I mean, I'm going to be at the battlefront soon, I shouldn't be so cynical...
*** There is going to be about a million links showing how long-term costs of eating healthier is better than eating without thought to said health. I know this, but I'm using tact and helping to make my point with that paragraph.
at
10:59 AM
No comments:
Links to this post
Thursday, February 10, 2011
Getting IN
Though to some this may seem like randomly occurring thoughts put on screen, the reality is that there is some
science
to the way I post. This journey I'm about to subject myself to wasn't entirely one that most "pre-meds" would identify with - apart from taking the pre-requisites and MCAT - and I will probably still remember this application cycle for a long time. In any case, what we're talking about is that one thing EVERY aspiring undergrad who incorrectly identifies their major as "pre-med" aspires for - getting into Medical School. I am now going to permanently transcribe the events that I felt were most memorable - not for attention - but it definitely strikes as unique and as an example that this admissions process is not the same for everyone.
The day ends (for those working 9-5) and I'm still working on an assay in the lab while simultaneously going over results generated from another experiment. Now that everyone was gone for the day, it meant exercising profound professionalism and accommodation to co-workers wasn't a requirement - I have thus put my phone off silent and my speakers were now at full attention; with their perfect rendition of Radiohead songs. My mind was not on the fact that it was the 14th of the month (The day before the admissions committee meets to discuss who gets in/out for this cycle) or that I was still awaiting my response post-interview - I was legitimately concerned about my assays and science. I walk by my desk and my phone decides it needs attention - the cry for help that almost every person, save for myself, always responds to. The number is unknown but I pick it up anyways and what follows disrupts my daily routine...
The person on the other line was a member of the admissions committee. I cannot recall how long the phone conversation was - it was a blur. My initial thought at that moment is why I'm receiving this phone call in the first place (and making appropriate remarks when required). After briefly going through my application and making note of my good work, we say our goodbyes and end on a pleasant note - "If you ever have any questions or want to speak to me, feel free to call me." My brain automatically puts the pieces together and I'm positive that this conversation is a good thing; an indication that good news will be in the mail shortly!
After 3 (business) days of waiting, my mind cannot fathom the inconclusive dilemma that was presented. The only options I had were to wait even longer or take a chance. Why would a member of the admissions committee even bother calling me if I wasn't worth their time? Why would there be a 5 minute phone interview where they makes positive remarks on my application if I wasn't worth acceptance? I therefore take the initiative (it's a rather reoccurring character trait of mine) and call the person back. I leave a professional message asking to meet in person - to which they call back the next day and agree to doing. At that moment, I am somewhat relieved - I was going to at least receive an explanation, right? At the very least, I'll see who this person is and figure out if the person is a real AdCom or a prank.
The meeting transpired at the local children's hospital cafeteria. We shake hands and then take a seat, coffee in our hands, and we immediately get down to business. Here I was meeting with a member of the Admissions Committee to discuss my candidacy for the second time - this could end badly, right?
What follows is a nervous 10 minute interview where I'm again explaining how someone with years of pharmacology research decided that Medicine was his true calling. Explaining going from my undergrad years to working in pharmaceuticals to where I am now. At the end of my defense, the person begins to make compliments about my achievements and how well suited I am for Medical School. I respond quickly by asking what else I should be doing to prove that and get accepted. I've gone through all the hoops, right? Apart from curing cancer and saving people from the wreckage of earthquakes/hurricanes/etc, I can't see where that
weakness
is. The response is unforgettable - Let me tell you right now, you're in - The person follows that response by explaining I shouldn't blurt it out to everyone until I receive the letter in the mail and to not murder anyone or rob a bank. My night job would have to be stopped, I suppose.
At this point, I can say that I don't remember much of anything that happened after as joy instantaneously set it. My mind finally received an answer that I was accepted but, alas, I wasn't feeling complete satisfaction - I didn't have that proof I needed. That envelope with the university address, that email with the "Congratulations" or any other tangible form of evidence that I was accepted. The meeting ended and I walked back to my lab with that lingering thought - Am I really in? - and it stayed there for an entire month...
Fast forward to that time - a Wednesday, to be precise,  and I had woken up rather late in the day. I made adjustments for the fact that it was a holiday on Monday and mail would be a little bit late and figured that letters
should
be in the mail today. I eagerly check my mail before heading to work and find
nothing .
My emotions settle for disappointed, as I begin to doubt that persons validity in being on said committee and that I would have to endure months of waiting - or worse, never getting accepted. I trudge on to work and attempt to look productive for the entire day - my eyes glued to journals while my mind tried to make sense of what was transpiring in regards to my current "status" as an applicant to Medical School. The verbal acceptance never explicitly stated when I would receive that letter and it could take longer for the mail to arrive. I weighed in other factors to help alleviate the disappointment while I waited for the day to end. Night approaches and 8 pm rolls around before I decide that I've done enough work to validate my existence in this lab for today. Before heading back, I check my
Med School Addict forums
to reveal more disappointment; word of acceptance had indeed gotten around today. I drive back home and park my car when my mind decides on asking one of the most insane questions I could conjure - What if the mail hadn't arrived when I checked earlier? I argued that I wasn't in the mood for more disappointment but I eventually agreed to check again since it was on the way to my apartment.
I put the key in and close my eyes as I open the door (it's a ritual that I do which also includes playing Radiohead's "Anyone Can Play Guitar"). I open my eyes and I see it -
Large white envelope with the university's logo on the top left. My eyes fixated on what I was looking at but my brain couldn't figure out how to respond. Even the
Amygdala
was confused; confused about which emotion to let out first.
I was in.
Relief
-
Happyness
-
Pride
-
Excitement
-
Etc
All these emotions conspired to produce one emotion that left me breathless. I've never felt that before and I walked outside with the envelope in hand. This was my moment - a minor achievement to anyone who is in medical school/residency/etc - and I finally had that path. Getting into and graduating from college - I never felt anything. My Masters was just relief and the desire to sleep. This was different - that letter I read meant I was past one of the major hurdles into becoming a physician. Opening the door to a career path that I (very)briefly thought was not meant for me. Years of work to prove to myself and this committee that Medicine is what I want to do for the rest of my life.
Conclusively, I'll say this - Very few people will understand this process and the hurdles one has to go through to get here. Even fewer will latch on to this moment after either going to Medical School or not getting in. To those in Medical School/Residency/Etc, they'll probably say different things about this situation ranging from "Congrats on getting in, you'll love it!" to "Welcome to hell!" or even "No, get out while you still can!". I can't say how proud I will be of this moment when I'm in school/residency/etc. However, I will say that these events that led up to my acceptance will forever be remembered. To those currently in the application cycle with no word - my condolences and hope that good news will come. To those currently waiting to start the application cycle - good luck. I can say that after what happened to me, I refuse to believe that it's going to be a clear cut answer for everyone and if you ever think it's like that - remember what I went through.  This blog will probably see a change develop in me as I go through the process of becoming a physician, but I'll at least remember how hard I worked to get to where I am. This is a crazy process and I don't wish this on anyone else.... but it sure makes for attention whore-grabbing material that some people wouldn't hesitate to publicly post on the Internet!
at
10:14 AM
No comments:
Links to this post
Monday, February 7, 2011
Why I ADORE the FDA
If there's one thing you haven't surmised from my posts, it's my passion and admiration of the coveted
FDA
I can't exaggerate my sarcasm any further about my complete devotion to the cult following everyone else has towards the FDA. I don't think it takes a trained mule 5 seconds to see the fallacy in how awesome the FDA is after reading what I write today.
Let's begin, shall we?
So, I mentioned earlier in my posts about how the FDA started to
actually get its act together . The article is, unfortunately, not easily accessible. It'll be more difficult than previous ones, so I'll simply quote the abstract for those interested -
In the early 1930s, the industrial chemical dinitrophenol found widespread favor as a weight-loss drug, due principally to the work of Maurice Tainter, a clinical pharmacologist from Stanford University. Unfortunately the compound’s therapeutic index was razor thin and it was not until thousands of people suffered irreversible harm that mainstream physicians realized that dinitrophenol’s risks outweighed its benefits and abandoned its use. Yet, it took passage of the Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act in 1938 before federal regulators had the ability to stop patent medicine men from selling dinitrophenol to Americans lured by the promise of a drug that would safely melt one’s fat away.
I prefer using this example to kick start things, not because it shows the FDA in a bad light, but because it actually demonstrated their ability to do the right thing at the right time. This is a chemical that has been used since the late 1800s because it demonstrated the ability to lose weight (and quite successfully, too). The issues began to arise when physicians began prescribing the medication when obesity actually became a mainstream issue - anecdote that states obesity actually began to manifest in the early 1900s and body image became a major factor during that era - and quick fixes were a
very strong
desire. Now we have physicians prescribing a medication which works to
uncouple a very important mechanism
in our body. Well, pharmacology will show you that drugs inhibit/provoke a lot of mechanism in our cells, so why should this be a concern? Well, suffice it to say, the actual problem is that our body compensates for this inhibitory drug by "cranking up the power" and forcing those mitochondrias to work double time. Throw in a faulty mechanism from the get-go and we have a factory that's producing heat - A LOT OF HEAT. So, it comes to no surprise that this heat eventually causes increased body temp and... organs to melt.
Well, what's the point? The point is that physicians were seeing this effect from a "drug" and it was this actual event that gave the FDA the power to literally tell physicians "NO". This was a huge movement/act by our
local government
to ensure the safety of the people. In essence, this gave the FDA the chance to show and prove that it can handle and enforce a variable/volatile market! The results were (relatively) amazing - DNP was banned from being used by patients in the US - a huge congratulations to effective intervention! I'll simply stop here and leave on a positive note - we can't diminish the growing prowess the FDA is getting just by reading this!
If only that was the point.
Except that we have some good news
First introduced a while back, this
amendment
was a kick start to a promising revolution in what the FDA can and cannot do. In essence, the spring cleaning would implement some changes that would ultimately drive them into a better governing body.
Prescription Drug User Fee Act (PDUFA)
- allows FDA to collect fees from drug companies to help fund reviews of new drugs. The act enables shorter review times and a more predictable review process, while still maintaining high-quality reviews.
Medical Device User Fee and Modernization Act (MDUFMA)
- allows for user fees, and will allow FDA to make significant improvements in the medical device review program.
Best Pharmaceuticals for Children Act (BPCA)
- encourages more studies in children and promotes the development of treatments for children.
Pediatric Research Equity Act (PREA)
– continues FDA's authority to require studies in children concerning certain medical products and under other specific circumstances.
These are outstanding improvements! One can't help but think that my disdain and disgust with the FDA is not warranted and just a skewed cynicism from my previous work in pharmaceuticals. If only that were the case.
No, for I'm explaining a simple issue I have with one of biggest governing bodies dealing with the regulation of something... important . I don't mean to write this as a raging criticism of the FDA, but more akin to informing people of the glaring issues with this organization. The same organization that's telling you what's okay to put in your bodies.
Let's start with what kick-started my cynicism, shall we? A
landmark company
was on the verge of creating a
blood-thinner
that
no other company had done before .  What's the gripe? Well, the issue is how this medication came into fruition.
It starts here
Kind of continues
And ends
No problem, right? An advisory panel of the FDA kicks a member who cites the issues of a medication in question right before they decide on voting to accept the medication. There's absolutely nothing here but mere coincidence. The guy must have been long overdue with a terrible work record reeking with unprofessional behavior. Published scientists always go that route eventually, or pursue other lifestyles...
Okay, awesome, the FDA screwed up. That's no big deal, right? Let's give the FDA a chance to prove it can actually regulate/mediate/whatever!
Woah, what have we here?
Did you read that bold print - a harmless cereal that everyone loves is now boasting that if you regularly ingest this delightful morning treat, you'll (help) lower cholesterol! This is a great thing! Everyone should adore this!
HA
To elaborate
"...by claiming that the product lowers total and bad cholesterol, then it is also claiming to treat heart disease, for which total and bad (LDL) cholesterol are known risk factors. This is what puts the product in the "new drug" category, and the letter quotes several sections of "the Act" to support their case.
The FDA said another reason that the product is considered to be a "new drug" was because under another section of "the Act", it is "not generally recognized as safe and effective for use in preventing or treating hypercholesterolemia or
coronary heart disease "." The amount of absolutely comprehensible and logically sound claims and actions are enormous. My mind is beyond blown at this point because nothing screams absurd with this issue. People probably remember reading about this when it occurred and brushed it off, which I might have done as well if I wasn't so deeply entrenched and enthralled in healthcare/pharmacology. Why would a commanding body like the FDA briskly brush off an issue dealing with a medication that didn't show any clear distinction from its predecessor and instead choose to fight a breakfast cereal?
So then what? Majority of complainers have only criticisms and complaints, but never solutions. Well, I respectfully agree with that notion and will strive to never,
ever , become someone of that nature. So what do I propose? Well, radical changes, sure. But what, specifically?
I present to you Exhibit A of something that the FDA could take a hint from
Comparative effectiveness is something many regulatory bodies outside the US have strongly enforced and a revision of that policy would be an amazing attribute. Imagine a more stringent criteria that defines whether or not a compound makes the market. We constantly see new medications aimed at
targeting
the
same
disease . Let's make it more stringent - show that this compound has a significantly better efficacy versus current medications and a better safety/toxicity profile. The added benefits have to show a profound impact that's markedly better than its predecessor and with
lower
risks.
Some people will complain .  Unbeknowest to most, I'm not part of the liberal agenda - I'm definitely for capitalism and survival of the fittest. However, we can't make it easier to implement new drugs to treat diseases when the benefits aren't marginally significant and come with added risks. Sure, the cost associated with pushing these drugs into the market will rise, but this ultimately comes down to evolution/survival of the fittest. Companies cannot become comfortable with what's worked in the past and use it to their advantage. Taking risks is what garners the rewards we've seen with groundbreaking medications. Realize, also, that the FDA does "address" this concern, but not nearly to the capacity that it can to make it easier for us (Physicians/Patients/Insurance Agents/Halflings/Elvs/Etc) to make informed decisions.
The most important implementation I cannot stress enough is highlighted in this
article
Pharmacogenetic Tests
Most cancer treatments benefit only a minority of patients. This has led to a widespread interest in the identification of gene-expression-based prognostic signatures. Well-developed and validated genomic signatures can lead to personalized treatment decisions resulting in improved patient management. However, the pace of acceptance of these signatures in clinical practice has been slow. This is because many of the signatures have been developed without clear focus on the intended clinical use, and proper independent validation studies establishing their medical utility have rarely been performed. The practicing physician and the patient are thus left in doubt about the reliability and medical utility of the signatures.
What this article points out is obvious - current technologies exist for giving prognostic solutions which Physicians can ultimately use at their disposal. The problem? Wait, there's a problem?! Naturally, when you leave a market unhindered for several years and then lazily apply a "governing body" to impose "requirements", you're not going to get everyone onboard. The problem is trust associated with these tests because there is very little in terms of regulatory requirements to get these things in the hands of Physicians/Hospitals. However, that's not deterred science. Genetic tests - yes, those - are gaining leverage in the scientific community. We're seeing a change from simply trying to make the damn things to figuring out  rules and protocols that govern whether or not these tests are valid. Yes, to the shock and awe of the general population, science is actually trying to help people. To put it bluntly -
When validated, prognostic and predictive signatures can guide personalized treatment decisions for the individual patient. This results in a better balance between therapeutic efficacy and toxic side-effects, which leads to improved patient outcomes. The
guidelines shown
are promising, to say the least.
Objectives
Is the study a developmental or validation study?
Does the study address a clinically important intended use?
Patient selection
Is the patient selection and sample size appropriate for the study objectives?
Is the number of appropriate patients sufficient to provide narrow confidence limits for the predicted outcome in risk groups?
Developmental studies
Has the signature been internally validated in an unbiased manner?
Does the study state explicitly that internal validation was conducted using either split-sample or complete cross-validation?
If the study uses cross-validation, does the study explicitly state that the model was built from scratch for each training set, including gene selection?
If split-sample is used for internal validation, is there sufficient number of patients in the validation set to give narrow confidence intervals for the predicted outcomes within risk groups?
Does the study report
P -values from an appropriate statistical test to demonstrate that the prediction accuracy for the signature is better than chance?
Does the signature demonstrate significantly better prediction accuracy than standard risk factors using separation of Kaplan–Meier curves within each level of standard prognostic factors?
Does the study provide a completely specified signature for others to independently validate?
Validation studies
Is the assay standardized and analytically validated?
Is the validation conducted using a prospective clinical trial? If yes, is the design of the trial appropriate and efficient?
Is the validation conducted using specimens archived from a clinical trial?
Conclusively, my point is that with a growing concern and interest in preventative care, there should be increased focus and attention from the FDA towards providing a valid protocol to get these genetic tests out the door. The
FDAAAAAAAAAAA
shows promise but it needs to address an issue that's been born since a
tiny acheivement
occurred. The FDA and the
CLIA
are pretty much at a loss in figuring out where genetic testing should be placed and which body should regulate it. The choice is obvious - there needs to be a nationally recognized regulatory body that focuses on how to best implement validation studies for these tests. If you ever have time (who doesn't?), I'd recommend
reading this . The article was not written by me, though I'll gladly take credit, and explains in excrutiating detail just what I'm talking about. However, I'll leave this little nugget of information to further calm and sooth the masses -
Over 90% of genetic tests currently on the market are lab-developed tests (LDTs) regulated under CLIA 310
and not regulated by FDA. 311
Even when FDA does regulate a test, prospective clinical trials of safety and effectiveness are not necessarily required. 312
CLIA does not require a data-driven regulatory review to confirm safety and efficacy before a test moves into clinical use
So, here's to the FDA! Like Microsoft Windows, it has its ups and downs. But, unfortunately, I think what the FDA governs is a little more important than whether or not
Windows Phone 7 gets copy and paste .
But that's what I think...and I'll remain upbeat that things will improve.
at
9:44 AM
No comments:
Links to this post
Newer Posts
Older Posts
Home
Subscribe to:
Posts (Atom)
Follow by Email
Blog Archive
Jun
(1)
May
(4)
Jan
(1)
Nov
(1)
Oct
(1)
Sep
(1)
Jul
(1)
May
(2)
Apr
(1)
Mar
(1)
Dec
(1)
Nov
(2)
Sep
(1)
Aug
(1)
Jul
(2)
Jun
(2)
May
(3)
Apr
(2)
Mar
(2)
Feb
(5)
Jan
(3)
Awesome Inc. template. Powered by
Blogger .