Question #4: The major areas of the vertebrate brain | Brains Lab
Home
About
Essays
Illusions
Brains Lab
Synapses, Somata, and Systems Neuroscience
Feeds:
Posts
Comments
«
The Structure of Scientific Revolutions book notes
Network activity in hippocampal interneurons is regulated by GABA receptors
»
Question #4: The major areas of the vertebrate brain
January 18, 2009 by
Andy
There are links to diagrams of the vertebrate brain
here
and
here . These are the fourteen major areas of it with a few remarks to the function of each.
1)
Medulla Oblongota : Makes the connection from the spinal cord to the rest of the brain. It controls “autonomic” functions: respiration, blood pressure, pulse, vomiting, defection, reflexes, and swallowing.
2)
Cerebellum : It is dorsal to the pons (and medulla oblongota) and inferior (below) the occipital lobe, putting it at the lower back of the brain. It is mainly believed to be involved in sensory and motor control and especially in the timing of movements. Due to its many small
granule cells , in humans it has 50% of the total neurons but only 10% of the total mass. However, it also contains some of the largest human neurons in
Purkinje cells
which are also the only output of the cerebellum. It looks similar across all vertebrate species, which has been taken as evidence for conserved function across the class of animals.
3)
Pons : This area is above the medulla oblongota and ventral to the cerebellum but inferior to the rest of the brain. It’s involved in relaying sensory information (not a surprise given its location), helping to regulate breathing and arousal, and possibly is even involved with dreaming. The pons is present in all vertebrates.
4)
Hypothalamus : They hypothalalmus is present in all vertebrates just above the brain stem. It is involved with making and secreting hormones, which affect body temperature, hunger, thirst, emotions (anger), and
circadian
rhythms. If there is bilateral lesion of the ventromedial nucleus of the hypothalamus then the animal will stop intaking food entirely, which would probably be the ultimate diet. Because of all of the hormones, it is a region of high sexual dimorphism. In the vertebrate lineage, it is believed that a common ancestor of lampreys were the first to evolve the hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal neuroendocrine system, including two
gonadotropin-releasing hormones .
5)
Thalamus : In humans, this is the main region of the diencephalon. The dorsal thalamus is highly conserved throughout vertebrates. It is believed to play a role in converting
prethalamic
inputs into a form “readable” by the cerebral cortex, regulating sleep, and various sensory systems.
6)
Pituitary Gland : A pea-sized region below the hypothalamus that secretes the hormones produced by the hypothalamus, thus controlling homeostatic processes. Morphologically conserved throughout vertebrates but functionally very specific to the organism. In mammals, the main two neural hormones released are oxytocin, and vasopressin, the latter of which regulates the bodies retention of water.
7)
Cingulate Gyrus : Located in the medial part of the brain above the corpus callosum in the cerebral cortex. It is involved in the limbic system so its functions are learning and memory. It gets inputs from the thalamus, neocortex, and sensory systems in the cerebral cortex.
8)
Hippocampus : In humans, it is found in the medial temporal lobe and plays major roles in memory consolidation and spatial navigation. Non-mammals do not have a hippocampus, but they do have a homologous
pallium . In ray-finned fish and birds, the medial pallium is involved with spatial memory, which is quite robust. Other species are not believed to use the same type of memory storage, although some insects and cephalopods, it involves different areas (ie, for octopuses it is the
vertical lobe ). In mammals, the hippocampus-to-size ratio increases (not necessarily linearly) with intelligence, as it is twice as large in primates as in hedgehogs.
9)
Olfactory Lobes : These are large and were major components of “early” vertebrate forebrains, and although it has increased in relative size throughout the evolution of vertebrates, it has retained the same five layers from fruit flies to the lab mouse. The functions are to enhance the differences between odors, increasing overall sensitivity to smells, filtering out noise, and communicate with higher brain regions. The main inputs to the area are basal dendrites of
mitral cells .
10)
Occipital Lobe : Recieves raw retinal sensory information and processes it in the primary visual cortex (V1). In humans, it has a structured map of all visible spatial information. The visual cortex has expanded a large amount in primates along with the neocortex in general.
11)
Temporal Lobe : In humans, the temporal lobe is involved with audition, olfaction, vision (association and color), memory, and linking past sensory and emotional experiences into a coherent self. There has been lots of change in its function throughout evolution, but a generally trend is an increase in size in mammals.
12)
Amygdala : This is involved in memory and emotional reactions (like fear) in humans. Although it has homologues in all vertebrates, it was not until amniotes that two anatonomical regions developed: the posterior dorsal ventricular ridge, plus the lateral nuclei (in reptiles) and the basolateral complex (in mammals). Laberge
et al
(2006) has suggested that these news regions are capable of modulating the older sections of the amygdala and allowing for more complex types of emotional learning.
13)
Parietal Lobe : Superior to the occipital lobe and posterior to the frontal lobes, this region is involved with aggergating sensory information and contextualizing it, especially in terms of spatial sense and navigation. Different sections of the lobe correspond to different types of spatial awareness: important locations, head-based or eye-based reference frames, shape, size, etc. I have heard that frogs have highly developed parietal lobes and that this is what enables them to stick their tongues out and catch flies seemingly at will. Perhaps Kobe Bryant has a highly developed one as well.
14)
Frontal Lobe : Located at the most anterior region of the brain (aka the “front”) this is involved with executive decisions like extrapolating future consequences onto future actions, overriding desires based on social considerations, and the like. There is not much variation in relative volume in the area in primates once you adjust for body size (Semendeferi
et al , 1997), although that claim is often made. Nevertheless from what I have read it appears that there has been some evolution towards larger volume of area in the frontal lobes in mammals in general.
Overall I would say that there is too much discussion of naming the brain and too little discussion of function and evolution. There are so many different ways to classify each of these areas, but how much does it actually help our understanding? Perhaps we need an
IUPAC
of brain names.
This was inspired by CalTech’s
question #4 : “Draw an outline of a vertebrate brain and name its major areas.” Feel free to offer any critiques or your own answers in the comments.
References
Butler AB, Hodos W. Comparative Vertebrate Neuroanatomy, 2nd Edition. Wiley-IEEE, 2005.
Sower SA, Freamat M, Kavanaugh SI. 2008 The origins of the vertebrate hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal (HPG) and hypothalamic-pituitary-thyroid (HPT) endocrine systems: New insights from lampreys. Gen Comp Endocrinol.
PubMed Link .
Holmes RL, Ball JN. The Pituitary Gland: A Comparative Account. Cambridge University Press, 1974.
UC Davis Biological Science. “The Vertebrate Brain”.
http://trc.ucdavis.edu/biosci10v/bis10v/week10/08brain.html , Accessed January 2008.
Laberge F, Muhlenbrock-Lenter S, Grunwald W, Roth G. 2006 Evolution of the amygdala: New evidence from studies in amphibians. Brain, Behavior, and Evolution 67: 177-187. doi: 10.1159/000091119.
Semendeferi K, Damasio H, Frank R, Van Hoesen GW. 1997 The evolution of the frontal lobes: a volumetric analysis based on three-dimensional reconstructions of magnetic resonance scans of human and ape brains. Journal of Human Evolution
32:375-88.
Rate this: Like this: Like
Loading...
Related
Posted in
100 Questions
|
Categories
100 Questions
Aging
Autism Spectrum
Brain Imaging
Brain-Computer Interface
Brains Lab
Cognitive Psychology
Connectomics
Developmental Neuroscience
Evolutionary Biology
Hippocampus
Molecular Neuroscience
Neurogenesis
Neurogenetics
Neuropharmacology
Neurotransmitters
Olfaction
Structure to Function
Theoretical Neuroscience
Trends in Neuroscience
Uncategorized
Vision
Search for:
Subscribe via RSS   RSS - Posts
No RSS Reader?
Join 36 other followers
Blogroll
Brain Windows
Developing Intelligence
Functional Neurogenesis
Mind Hacks
Neurodudes
Neuroskeptic
Oscillatory Thoughts
Talking Brains
Journals I Like
Annals of Saudi Medicine
Biology Direct
BMC Neuroscience
Brazilian Med and Biology
Fronteirs in Neuroscience
Journal of Neuroscience
Latvian Academy of Sciences
Molecular Systems Biology
Optics Express
Pakistan J of Bio Sci
PJAB
PLoS
PNAS
Scientia Pharmaceutica
South African J Animal Sci
Archives
Archives
Select Month
June 2013
July 2012
June 2012
May 2012
April 2012
March 2012
February 2012
January 2012
December 2011
November 2011
October 2011
September 2011
August 2011
July 2011
June 2011
May 2011
April 2011
March 2011
February 2011
January 2011
December 2010
November 2010
October 2010
September 2010
August 2010
June 2010
May 2010
April 2010
March 2010
February 2010
January 2010
December 2009
November 2009
October 2009
September 2009
August 2009
July 2009
June 2009
May 2009
April 2009
March 2009
February 2009
January 2009
December 2008
November 2008
October 2008
September 2008
August 2008
July 2008
June 2008
Meta
Register
Log in
Entries
RSS
Comments
RSS
WordPress.com
Blog at WordPress.com .
The MistyLook Theme .
Follow
Follow “Brains Lab”
Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.
Join 36 other followers
Build a website with WordPress.com
%d
bloggers like this: