The Amygdala and the Word of GOD. | Thinking in Reality
go to main
|
go to side bar
Thinking in Reality
Christians may reasonably and rationally be assured their faith is true, apart from extra-biblical evidences.
Home
About Me
Why I Think
Facebook
Contact
Saturday, September 20, 2008
The Amygdala and the Word of GOD.
The
Amygdala
is a part of your brain. Technical stuff here. It is part of the
telencephalon , located in the
temporal lobe . The amygdala is large and just beneath the surface of the front, medial part of the temporal lobe where it causes the bulge on the surface called the uncus. This is a component of the limbic system. The Amygdala is involved in the processing of memory, emotion, and fear. This part of your brain is the processing center for all perceptive and receptive information gathered and retrieved through all of your senses at any given time throughout the day and night. Your Amygdala will process every smell, sound, sight, taste, & audible thing you experience, even in your sleep. In other words, the Amygdala is the point of entry into our “brain” for all outside influence – and it is the point of reckoning of all outside input so that we can derive a reaction - be it joy, fear, anger or complacency (to name a few). In the Biblical Hebrew language the word Migdal is used to refer to the watch tower at the gate of entrance to a city. From the tower all who pass through are monitored, processed, and regulated. The migdal is the point of admission into the city. Strong Tower - migdal 1) tower a) tower b) elevated stage, pulpit c) raised bed Proverbs 18:10
says
The name of the LORD is a strong tower : the righteous run into it, and are safe. The Name of the LORD is a strong tower. Tower in this verse is Migdal. Reflect on that for a while.
Selah .
Thoughts by
ChrisF
Email This BlogThis! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share to Pinterest
Labels:
hope ,
Jesus ,
science and technology ,
truth ,
wisdom
2 comments:
Trish
said...
Hi - I was sent over here by Classic Mama.
This is a fascinating study, especially since an impairment of the amygdala is one of the problems my son faces as part of his autism and is an area that we are praying for God to work a creative miracle. So much of his perception of the world around him is skewed, and what we see as little things become huge sources of fear or emotional upset to him.
This inaccurate sensory processing, combined with the other neurological challenges he faces, make it difficult for him to interact with others at the same social level. But one thing I believe, even if we don't see a physical healing, is that God can speak directly to His spirit. Sorry to go on and on when you don't even know me!
I look forward to reading your blog.
September 25, 2008 at 11:08 AM
Iam4jesus
said...
Thank you Trish.
The LORD does speak to His children.
And, even if those children aren't able to respond in a managable and understandable (by our mere corporeal means) we can trust that HE speaks and works through us all individually for the Glory of HIS Kingdom! :) Thanks for reading.
September 25, 2008 at 11:16 AM
Post a Comment
Newer Post
Older Post
Home
Subscribe to:
Post Comments (Atom)
Delight yourself also in the Lord, and He will give you the desires and secret petitions of your heart. Psalm 37:4
Top 5 Posts
The Error of Christopher Columbus
Burning Coals
Just Sinner Saved By Grace?
Thoughts about Romans 3:20-26
Are there immortal worms in hell?
Posts by topic
apathy
Armor of God
children
covenant
creation
culture
current events
Eschatology
evangelism
faith
Family
Forgiveness
Grace and Mercy
healing
health issues
Hell
history
hope
Identity
Jesus
love
marriage
media
misunderstood scripture
money and finances
morality
our house
politics
prayer
promises of God
provision
restoration
salvation
science and technology
sin
supernatural healing
The Gospel
treasure hunts
truth
wisdom
My Other Blogs
Hayah Chalowm
3 years ago
Good Pleasure for God's Family
Good Stuff
Anne Katherine Photography
Collision: Hitchens - Douglas Debate (Part 1 of 12)
Dawkins-Lennox Debate 2007
Desiring God.org
Lion of Judah Ministries
Mighty River Music!
My Family Site
Walk On WaterColor
Water's Edge Church
Join Us
Healtier with Shaklee
Selah Design Services
Design your home, addition, or renovation project
Go Get One
Follow by Email
Follow this blog
Visitors
©2011 Thinking In Reality. Some rights reserved.
Thanks for stopping by!
The Amygdala and the Word of GOD.
Contact