Dental Fear & Anxiety II – Worry & Panic
Hate Dentists - Dental Fear & Drama Blog
Hate Dentists Blog - Why People Hate Dentists
Home
Worry and Panic: Dental Fear-Anxiety II
by
Dr. Joe :)
·
8 comments
Are You Caught in an Endless Worry Loop?
W elcome to Part II of Dental Fear & Anxiety.
In
Part I of Dental Fear & Anxiety
you learned about the difference between Fear and Anxiety.
To refresh…Fear involves the response to an immediate threat.
Anxiety is the vague apprehension that something bad will happen and is fueled by excessive worry and underlying fear.
Here in Part II, I’ll get a little more into the nitty gritty of how fear and anxiety can have a lasting affect and why this influences your dental experience.
The Primitive Brain – Wired for Fear
T he base of your brain is equipped with an
early warning system . It’s on a primitive part of your brain that regulates emotions called the
Amygdala .
That extremely intense encounter you had with the street punk (see Part I)
imprinted a memory
on this part of your brain. Now
your brain is rewired
so any future encounters of a similar nature will invoke a faster response time.
Once you’ve been
wired for fear , any time you get in a similar situation you’ll have that
powerful urge to duke it out or skedaddle .
This warning system only applies for negative encounters – things perceived as grave threats. The
emotional intensity
of the initial incident determines the imprinting. Something mundane won’t make any imprint.
Here’s the problem. This imprinting is emotional-based which means it will defy logic and
can endure for years , or even a
lifetime
beyond that initial incident. People can end up with unusual fears such as clown phobia (see video).
The other thing is that children are emotionally vulnerable and that makes them very susceptible to imprinting. This imprinting is unpredictable. What affects one might not affect another. Some children are more fearful by nature.
The bad news is your fear-response can occasionally go haywire.
Instead of a survival mechanism for handling genuine threat, it can disrupt normal life and become a source of embarrassment that leads to social withdrawal.
The good news is you can overcome any imprinting.
You can desensitize yourself and learn to embrace that which you once feared.
Tame that Worry Habit
T o
worry
is to be concerned about the near future, and that’s generally a helpful emotion. As with many emotions, it’s a signal for you to take appropriate action.
W hen you worry too much, your imagination tends to be caught in an endless loop of disaster scenarios.
Without worry in your repertoire, you would be reckless, cavalier and ill-prepared for daily living. Imagine a mother lacking any concern for the health of her young child.  What chance of survival would that child have?
Patients who don’t worry about teeth are less likely to take care of themselves and tend to be
Dental Avoiders .  To them, dental care seems like a bad deal compared to a big night out on the town.
They could be in for a rude awakening.
The flip side is to
over-worry . Worrying can be addictive and too much of a good thing can be toxic.
Have you ever met someone who seems to have a
Worry Button that’s stuck in the ON position ? When you worry too much, your imagination tends to be caught in an endless loop of disaster scenarios. Instead of making the best of a situation, you’re left wallowing in anxiety. Instead of taking appropriate action, you’re left paralyzed.
Excessive worry is the main component of
Generalized Anxiety Disorder . Once your anxiety level ramps up, you become more susceptible to
panic attacks . That’s where your brain hits the proverbial
Panic Button
without the presence of a genuine threat.
Patients who excessively worry cannot relax and enjoy themselves in the dental chair. They carry the burden of trying to ensure everything will work out. And yet, that’s not their job. It’s ours.
What’s the cure for this?
Leadership and trust.
Once I can establish a foundation of trust an demonstrate that you’re now in good hands, you’ll finally be able to relax and let go of the burden of shouldering all responsibility. What a relief!
Emotional Reasoning – Living the Drama
I f you indulge in Emotional Reasoning, you’ll be feeding your anxieties instead of taming them.
T here’s also a strong tendency for people to engage in something called
Emotional Reasoning . That’s where people interpret that what they’re feeling as the absolute TRUTH. If you feel safe then it must be safe. If you feel threatened then it must be a threat to you.
That’s
dangerous thinking.
Emotions are meant to be
action signals
that help trigger an appropriate response. They’re like sparks to get the engine going.
The danger of letting your emotions run the show is they can be way off base and lead you astray. Emotions are a great initiator but an unreliable guide.
If you indulge in Emotional Reasoning, you’ll be
feeding your anxiety instead of taming it . Your emotions become amplified as they step up into the foreground. Negative emotions can begin to dominate. Your life can become a tense drama instead of a lighthearted, feel-good story.
Children in particular aren’t very skilled at separating emotions from reality. They’re prone to Emotional Reasoning and they’re easily upset. Children are susceptible to emotional flooding where they become overwhelmed by emotion.
As a dentist, children can be challenging.
I recently had a young boy in the chair for some dental work. It was a relatively easy procedure, but he was somewhat anxious from the start.
Children have wonderful spirits. Some are indomitable, some are more vulnerable.
This boy was the sensitive type and struggled through his visit.
When we were finished, he let out a big sigh of relief.
I asked him,
“Was that pretty tough?”
“Yeah”
was his answer.
“ Which part?”
I replied.
He thought about it but couldn’t say.
Why? Because it really wasn’t all that tough. The actual procedure was a breeze, but his internal anxiety was ratcheting up the drama.
O nce fear comes into play, that can mean lifelong suffering from anxiety.
Here’s the thing… The challenge of dentistry isn’t just the procedure, it’s effectively managing a patient’s response to it.
The inside story can be completely different from outside reality. All that anxiety and apprehension can make for a miserable experience.
What’s the solution? Children need a dose of confidence. Encouraging them and praising for small victories can help create a smooth progression from start to finish.
The important thing is not to expose a child to a traumatic event that will imprint them with a bad memory. Once fear comes into play, that can mean lifelong suffering from anxiety.
The big challenge of dentistry is
deprogramming people that are already wired for fear and anxiety . Luckily we have
effective
Sedation Dentistry
techniques
that allow high-anxiety patients to receive much-needed dental care in relative comfort.
I hope this review on fear and anxiety has been helpful for you. This subject is near and dear to my heart. I’ve had my own share of dental nightmares growing up.
“How I learned to stop worrying about the dentist and start loving my smile.”
That’s the main headline on our website at Royal York Dental, and I hope those words come true for you.
Stay healthy and keep smiling!
Dr. Joe
About the Author:
Dr. Joe Bulger
is a West Toronto dentist. He’s also the owner-founder of
Royal York Dental
– a respected dental clinic serving Etobicoke since 1950.
If you would like to learn more about your dental options, fill out our contact form or
CALL 416 231-0550
for a
FREE & Easy No-Obligation First Visit .
Tagged as:
afraid of the dentist ,
Dental Anxiety ,
Dental Fear
Cancel reply
Leave a Comment
Name
*
E-mail
*
Website
{
8
comments… read them below or
add one
}
1
Sharon Bell
May 31, 2010 at 8:22 am
Reply
Fear is what keeps a lot of people from seeking dental treatment until it’s to late. Your article is a blessing to those who want to conquer fear. Thanks for sharing it with us! Your readers might also want to visit
http://cosmeticdentistcleveland.org
for other good topics. Thanks again and more power to your blog!
2
Dr. Joe
May 31, 2010 at 8:59 am
Reply
Thanks Sharon
Looks like you’ve also just launched your site with a flurry of activity. Well done!
3
Roxy
June 30, 2010 at 5:17 pm
Reply
I like this review, as with the other articles, they are always enlightening..
Your review caused me to stop and think about the section in your article where you spoke about the little boy and his overwhelming emotions– where he felt that the procedure was hard, but wasn’t able to say why.
As adults, we do the same thing.
Separating facts from feeling is indeeds a work in progress, and I think once one can master that skill, they will overcome anything– including dental treatment.
I can definitely see how feelings trigger anxiety… Great perspective again..
4
Dr. Joe :)
June 30, 2010 at 9:07 pm
Reply
Roxy, I love how you said this
“Separating facts from feeling is indeed a work in progress, and I think once you can master that skill, you can overcome anything– including dental treatment.”
I’ve see people work themselves up in a dental chair. Children especially. If I can’t defuse that first, there’s no chance they’ll have a comfortable experience.
5
Jay
September 23, 2010 at 12:26 pm
Reply
It is so true that just one fear can make somebody life miserable and lead it to so many different complication. Nice post!!
6
Dentist@Raritan Dentist
November 3, 2012 at 11:59 pm
Reply
I don’t know what is better: giving our patient’s sedation dentistry and knock them out for a procedure, or try to positively motivate their emotions to the dental visit.
I’m a big believer that we can make patients not fear the dentist just through walking them through the process.
It may take more of our time, but I think it is better than turning people into zombies.
7
cosmetic dentist orlando
December 2, 2012 at 3:14 am
Reply
I’m not really a dentist hater though. When I was a kid, yes, maybe. But as grew older I have come to realize how important dentists are. They keep us away from toothache, oral diseases etc.
Read more:
http://www.hatedentists.com/1326/dentist-haters/#ixzz2Dse63m7X
8
Tate
March 1, 2013 at 7:25 pm
Reply
I really think it is the anxiousness that gets people afraid of going to the dentist. Thing is that it isn’t as bad as most people think.
Previous post:
Fear and Anxiety… Dental Fear-Anxiety I
Next post:
Why I Hate the Dentist: People Who Hate Dentists Part I
Hate Dentists?
Hello friend,
I'm a dentist from Toronto, Canada and for 25+ years I've taken care of people with fear anxiety and phobia about dentists.
In this blog you'll find insight into the world of Dental Psychology, including why so many people say, "I HATE dentists!"
Do you have a
Dental Horror Story ? I would love to hear your story and your comments. Feel free to share on any post.
Joe Bulger DDS :)
Free Special Reports
Get FREE Special Reports
Anxious?
Relax with comfort and ease.
Fast Teeth Whitening
Enjoy a whiter brighter smile!
Family-Friendly Care
Child-friendly care for your family.
Copyright © 2011 Hate Dentists Blog and Royal York Dental
QR Code Business Card